Introduction 13
(1) Causative
The characteristics of a prototypical causative are:
(a) Causative applies to an underlying intransitive clause and forms a
derived transitive.
(b) The argument in underlying S function (the causee) goes into O
function in the causative.
(c) A new argument (the causer) is introduced, in A function.
(d) There is some explicit formal marking of the causative construction.
Chapter 2 provides a full typology of causative constructions, dealing with their
form, syntax and meaning. For the purpose of comparison with applicatives
we can here note two important characteristics of causatives. The first is that
if a language has a causative derivation, it always applies to intransitive
verbs, forming transitives. In some – but by no means all – languages a
causative derivation will also apply to transitives. The second characteristic is
that the new argument (the causer) could generally not be included in the
underlying intransitive. (There are exceptions but they are rather rare. Dixon
and Aikhenvald (1997: 82) show how in Jarawara the causer may sometimes
also be included in the underlying transitive, as a peripheral argument marked
by ehene ‘due to’.)
(2) Applicative
We here need two prototypical schemas, depending on whether an applicative
derivation applies to an intransitive or a transitive clause.
EITHER
(a) Applicative applies to an underlying intransitive clause and forms a
derived transitive.
(b) The argument in underlying S function goes into A function in the
applicative.
(c) A peripheral argument (which could be explicitly stated in the
underlying intransitive) is taken into the core, in O function.
(d) There is some explicit formal marking of an applicative construction,
generally by an affix or some other morphological process applying
to the verb.
OR
(a) Applicative applies to an underlying transitive clause and maintains
transitivity, but with an argument in a different semantic role filling
O function.
14 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(b) The underlying A argument stays as is.
(c) A peripheral argument (which could be explicitly stated in the under-
lying intransitive) is taken into the core, in O function.
(d) The argument which was in O function is moved out of the core into
the periphery of the clause (and may be omittable).
(e) There is some explicit formal marking of an applicative construc-
tion, generally by an affix or some other morphological process
applying to the verb.
In chapter 12, Martin describes two applicative derivations for Creek. There
is what he calls a ‘dative applicative’, marked by prefix im-; the argument
which moves into O function can be a benefactive (e.g. X in ‘he is singing for
X’ or ‘he is making a doll for X’), or a malefactive (e.g. ‘he is cheating on
X’) or a source (e.g. ‘he is running from X’), among other possibilities. There
is also an ‘instrumental applicative’, marked by prefix is-, which codes an
instrumental argument (e.g. ‘Bill is writing a letter with X’); Martin notes
that this derivation does not necessarily increase valency.
For Amharic, Amberber (in chapter 9) describes two applicative deriva-
tions. That marked by -bb- can place an instrumental, malefactive or locative
argument in O function, while that marked by -ll- places a benefactive in O
function.
In a causative derivation a new argument is introduced – this is always
in A function and it has constant meaning, that of being a causer. That is,
causative derivations all have common semantics, of causation. Applicative
derivations all have a common syntactic effect, with a peripheral argument
being brought into O function, but the semantic role of this argument varies,
and with it the meaning of the applicative construction. We encounter a range
of meanings. These include (where X is the new O argument): comitative
(‘do it in the company of X’), benefactive (‘do it for the benefit of X’),
malefactive (‘do it to X’s disadvantage’), instrumental (‘do it using X’),
locative (‘do it at/on X’), presentative (‘do it in the presence of X’) and others
such as ‘laugh at X’, ‘cry over X’, ‘be frightened of X’. Occasionally, we find
a language in which a verb can take two applicative devices, of different
types, e.g. in Pajonal Campa (South Arawak) ‘give’ may take both presentat-
ive and benefactive applicatives (see note 14 in chapter 5 below).
As just described for Creek and Amharic, one applicative derivation can
cover several of these meanings, with varying combinations showing up in
different languages; for example, benefactive and malefactive are coded by
the same derivational suffix in Creek but by different affixes in Amharic. In
Introduction 15
Yup'ik (chapter 3), Mithun shows that the most productive applicative suffix,
-(u)te, can have comitative or benefactive sense, or can indicate the addressee
for a verb of communication (‘talk to X’).
In chapter 10, Reid describes the valency-increasing affix -mi- (which
developed from an incorporated noun meaning ‘eye’) in Ngan'gityemerri;
this can have comitative (‘she lives with X’) or dative (‘she’s waving at X’)
functions. (This is a typologically unusual development, since noun incorp-
oration generally either decreases or reassigns valency, but does not increase
it – see Mithun 1984.)
The great majority of applicative derivations apply to intransitive verbs,
and many of them will also apply to transitives. Both of the applicatives in
Creek and both of those in Amharic apply to verbs with any transitivity
value. Just occasionally we find an applicative that applies only to transitives,
e.g. the instrumental applicative -b’e- in K'iche', described by Campbell in §6
of chapter 7.
The transitivity potentiality of an applicative is likely to depend upon its
meaning. Specification of an instrument is most common in transitive clauses
– the agent uses the instrument to affect the patient (e.g. ‘Mary cut the meat
with a knife’) and instrumental applicatives are thus mostly applied to trans-
itives. If any applicative is only used with transitive verbs it is likely to be the
instrumental, as just noted for K'iche'.
As with passive, there can be types of applicative which deviate from the
prototypical schemas. Aikhenvald describes how in Tariana one function of
the derivational suffix -i(ta) is to mark that a peripheral argument is now
obligatory (however, it remains in peripheral function), e.g. ‘show it to X’
(see §4.5 of chapter 5). In Dulong/Rawang, LaPolla describes (in §3.2.2 of
chapter 8) a benefactive derivation with unusual syntax. When the suffix -a
is added to an intransitive verb, a benefactive argument moves into the core,
but the original S argument does not receive ergative marking (which is
usually included on an argument in A function). When -a is added to a
transitive verb, the original A and O stay as is with a new argument, which
has benefactive meaning, being marked by a postposition.
Onishi describes the wide range of syntactic effects of the applicative
suffix -jee in Motuna; this increases the valency of the verb by adding a new
argument in O, E or So function, according to the type of verb involved. With
‘be angry’ we get S becoming A and an NP referring to what the subject was
angry over (which was marked by purposive suffix -ko in the underlying
intransitive) coming into O function. For extended intransitives such as ‘know’
and ‘want’, with core arguments in S and E functions, S goes into A and E
16 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
into O function in a -jee applicative. With a transitive verb such as ‘make’,
the A stays as is, underlying O goes into E function, and a benefactive/
malefactive argument comes into O function. There are several other syn-
tactic possibilities, set out in §4.1.2 of chapter 4.
6 An integrated approach
There is a tendency in modern linguistics to compartmentalize things.
One asks whether something is a syntactic mechanism; or, alternatively, has
semantic effect; or, alternatively, has discourse function. Many of the chapters
in this volume show that one must adopt a wider perspective. Each of the
types of derivation that is discussed has three aspects:
(1) SEMANTIC. For instance, there may be two causatives, distinguished
in terms of whether the causee undertakes the activity willingly or
unwillingly.
(2) SYNTACTIC. For instance, an argument will be added to the core
in a prototypical causative or applicative derivation; and an argu-
ment will be removed from the core in a prototypical passive or
antipassive derivation.
(3) DISCOURSE/PRAGMATIC ROLE. For instance – as discussed by
Onishi for Motuna in chapter 4 – an applicative may place what was
a peripheral argument into O function, so that it can be identified as
topic within a segment of discourse.
These three aspects interrelate. The basic semantic effect of a causative
derivation is to introduce an additional participant, the causer, which nat-
urally has the syntactic effect of adding an argument. In some languages
passive encodes the semantic information that an activity is completed, and
also has the syntactic effect of placing an underlying O argument into
derived S function, to satisfy an S/A pivot constraint, which interrelates with
discourse organisation (a pivot being a grammaticalized topic).
Derivations vary and languages vary. In many languages a passive or anti-
passive tends to have a predominantly syntactic effect and a causative to be
largely semantic. (This, according to Shibatani, forthcoming, explains why a
causative mechanism is found in the overwhelming majority of languages,
but passive and antipassive have a more restricted distribution.) But a passive
or antipassive will always have some semantic component. If a language has
more than one passive or antipassive these will be distinguished, at least in
part, by their meanings. England (1983) reports a number of distinct passives
Introduction 17
in the Mayan language Mam – one is used when the underlying A acts
purposely; one is used when the A has lost, or does not have, control of the
action (done accidentally); one is used when the underlying A ‘went to do it’.
In Dyirbal there are two antipassives with different semantics, one referring
to an actual and the other to a potential or habitual act (Dixon 1972: 91–2).
In languages where there is a pivot (that is, a syntactic constraint involving
coreferential arguments in clause linking – Dixon 1994: 152–81) some of the
valency-changing derivations will typically feed the pivot. Passive can feed
an S/A pivot (including switch-reference) – as described by Aikhenvald in
chapter 5 for Tariana – putting an argument that is in non-pivot function (O)
into derived pivot function (S). Similarly, antipassive can feed an S/O pivot,
putting an argument that is in non-pivot function (A) into derived pivot
function (S). Applicative puts a peripheral argument into O function and may
thus be used to feed an S/O pivot. For instance, to link together ‘I’ll take the
fish-spear(O)’ and ‘I’ll spear the fish (O) with the fish-spear’, the second
clause is put into applicative form, with ‘fish-spear’ becoming O and ‘fish’
now taking dative case. Now the two clauses share the same O and can be
conjoined, with the second occurrence of ‘fish-spear’ omitted. (This example
comes from Wargamay, a language with an S/O pivot – Dixon 1981: 79.)
As noted just above, a causative tends to be largely semantic. But there are
languages in which a causative may be used for purely syntactic reasons.
Aikhenvald (forthcoming) shows how in Tariana a causative construction can
be employed to satisfy the ‘same subject and same object’ constraint on serial
verb constructions. Oswalt (1977) shows how in some Pomo languages, in a
clause such as ‘I want him to go’ or ‘I hope that he will go’, the verb ‘go’ will
take the causative suffix, so that it should have the same surface subject as the
main verb ‘want’ or ‘hope’. (Nichols 1985 describes a similar situation in
Chechen-Ingush.) And in chapter 3 Mithun shows how causatives can be
used for discourse purposes in Yup'ik. There is a text where the topic is
‘grandmother’. One clause is to be ‘I stand in the doorway’, but this is put
into causative form ‘grandmother having me stand in the doorway’, to integ-
rate it into the text segment with ‘grandmother’ as topic.
Valency-changing derivations may also feed a constraint that all the verbs
in a verb complex should have the same transitivity value; see, for instance,
example (18b) from Dulong/Rawang, in chapter 8. (A similar situation ap-
plies in many Australian languages.)
We need, in fact, to stand even further back and consider in the most gen-
eral terms the mechanisms which a language employs. There are examples of
a certain suffix, say, which appears to have a range of different functions
18 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
– sometimes changing the syntax, sometimes having no syntactic effect but
just changing the meaning. What we have here is a single linguistic mechan-
ism, which speakers conceive of and operate with as a unitary idea. However,
the implications of the idea, within the language, are wide-ranging, appearing
sometimes to be purely syntactic and other times to be simply semantic.
Consider the verbal derivation suffix -:ji-n in the Australian language Yidiny.
Dixon spent several years collecting examples of the seemingly diverse
effects of this form. Eventually, he was able to unify them in a single principle.
The prototypical situation in Yidiny is for the syntactic argument which is in
A function to be identical with the semantic role of ‘controlling agent’. The
suffix -:ji-n is used to mark any instance of this identity not holding. In a
purposeful reflexive situation (e.g. ‘he cut himself deliberately’) we do have a
controlling agent (underlying A) but it is identical with the patient (under-
lying O) and is mapped onto S in a derived intransitive construction; this is
marked by -:ji-n since the controlling agent is no longer in A function. Yidiny
has an antipassive construction, to feed its S/O pivot in relativization and
coordination; the underlying A argument goes into S function and the under-
lying O now takes dative or locative case. Again, the controlling agent is not
in A function and -:ji-n is used to mark this. In each of these instances -:ji-n
has syntactic effect, marking the derivation of an intransitive from an under-
lying transitive clause. But -:ji-n is also used when the A argument is some-
thing inanimate, which is inherently incapable of control (e.g. ‘the fire burnt
me’), or when the A argument is human but achieves some result accidentally
(e.g. ‘by chance I saw the coin on the roadside’). In these two instances the
clause remains transitive, with an A argument, but this is not a controlling
agent and hence the inclusion of -:ji-n. (A fuller discussion is in Dixon 1977:
274–93; a similar example from Kuku-Yalanji, another Australian language,
is summarised in Dixon 1994: 151.)
It is often useful to identify what is the primary function of a given deriva-
tion. For instance, in her discussion of Yup'ik in chapter 3, Mithun concludes
that the primary functions of some derivational affixes are ‘not to alter argu-
ment structure, but rather to focus on the state resulting from an action’. That
is, the effect on argument structure is simply a concomitant property.
In chapter 6, Rice provides an overview of the varied functions of the
affix *d in Athapaskan languages. There is undoubtedly some unitary concept
involved (which may differ a little from language to language). When *d
is applied to a transitive verb its effect might tentatively be described as
‘lowered differentiation of arguments’. Like -:ji-n in Yidiny it appears some-
times to have syntactic effect (passive, reflexive, reciprocal) but in other
Introduction 19
instances its effect is basically semantic, e.g. to indicate collectivity. We also
find *d used on intransitives with meanings such as unintended (‘errative’),
iterative and perambulative. (See the excellent discussion by Thompson 1996.)
What is needed here is an intensive, text-based study of the general meaning
of *d – as a unitary concept – in each language in which it occurs. And then
an inductive study of common elements of meaning of *d across all Athapaskan
languages, leading to a hypothesis about the meaning of *d in proto-Athapaskan
(or, at one level higher, proto-Na-déné) and the semantic – and consequential
syntactic – changes that have taken place in each individual language.
One thing which is patently clear – from consideration of *d in Athapaskan,
-:ji-n in Yidiny, and similar problems – is that one can only make any progress
in a deep understanding of how a language works by first looking at the
meaning, and then at how some semantic specifications may have syntactic
effect while others leave the syntax unchanged and simply constrain the
interpretation.
The idea of a ‘syntax first’ (or ‘autonomous syntax’) approach to language
tends to hold back linguists from obtaining significant insights into how
languages are used and understood. What is needed – and has been attempted
in most of the chapters in this volume – is an understanding of the underlying
semantic and syntactic distinctions that a given language employs, and how
these interrelate, and function in discourse context. And then, as a secondary
step, how these underlying contrasts are realized.
7 Semantic classes of verbs
Languages vary in their syntactic profiles, and this can motivate the types
of valency-changing derivations that they employ. For instance, in some
languages a high proportion of underived verbs are transitive; coupled with
this there are generally valency-decreasing derivations. In other languages a
relatively large number of underived verbs are intransitive; in association
with this there are normally some valency-increasing derivations. (Nichols
1982 provides an illuminating discussion of this for Ingush.)
Within a language, the meaning of a verb helps determine its underlying
transitivity value. Hopper and Thompson (1980) set forth ten semantic para-
meters in terms of which transitivity can be measured. Some verbs receive
‘high transitivity’ values for most parameters and typically belong to the
syntactic class transitive (e.g. ‘take’, ‘hit’, ‘discover’); other verbs score at
the ‘low transitivity’ end of most parameters and are generally intransitive
(e.g. ‘sit’, ‘slip’, ‘yawn’). There are some verbs that fall in the middle section
20 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
of the transitivity scale (e.g. ‘look (at)’, ‘laugh (at)’); these have the syntactic
value of transitive in some languages and intransitive in others. (If there is an
extended intransitive class, they are prime candidates to be members of the
class.)
One interesting observation is that if a ‘middle section of the transitivity
hierarchy’ verb is syntactically transitive, then it will often be used intransit-
ively, through application of a valency-decreasing derivation. If, on the other
hand, it is syntactically intransitive, then it will often be used transitively,
through application of a valency-increasing derivation. Compare two lan-
guages from the north-east of Australia. Guugu-Yimidhirr has a transitive
verb di:na- ‘laugh at’; from this is derived the intransitive stem di:na-:dhi-
‘laugh’, by application of the detransitivizing derivational suffix -:dhi-. Yidiny
has an intransitive verb manga- ‘laugh’; this is often used with the valency-
increasing derivational suffix -na-, used in its applicative sense, giving the
transitive stem manga-na- ‘laugh at’.
The meaning of a subclass of verbs will often incline it towards occurring
with a certain kind of valency-changing derivation. For instance, if there is a
class of verbs which typically have a human O argument (such as annoy, tire
and please in English) these will typically occur in a passive construction,
placing the underlying O in derived S function. This relates to the fact that, in
many kinds of discourse, if one core argument in a clause is human and the
other non-human, there is a preference for the human argument to be coded
as surface subject.
It is possible roughly to discern two broad classes of verbs:1
(1) Verbs which describe an action that either can happen spontaneously
to a patient or can be engineered by an agent, are likely to be S = O
ambitransitives. If they are transitive they are particularly likely to
take passive and/or anticausative derivation. If they are intransitive
they are particularly likely to undergo causative derivation. This class
covers meanings such as ‘break’, ‘fall’, ‘spill’, ‘bend’, ‘extend’,
‘stretch’, ‘change’, ‘move’, ‘turn’, ‘enter’, ‘burn’ and ‘frighten’.
(2) Verbs which relate to an action which may be described just in
general terms or, alternatively, with respect to some particular patient,
are likely to be S = A ambitransitives. If they are transitive they are
particularly likely to take antipassive derivation. If intransitive they
1
The terms ‘unaccusative’ and ‘unergative’ are currently used by some writers in investigation
of this kind of phenomenon. However, these terms are used with many other senses, without
any solid cross-linguistic criteria being involved. In view of this we prefer not to employ them
here. See Dixon (1999).
Introduction 21
are particularly likely to undergo some variety of applicative deriva-
tion. This class covers meanings such as ‘eat’, ‘sweep’, ‘polish’,
‘lead’, ‘win’, ‘play (at)’, ‘laugh (at)’, ‘cry (over)’ and ‘speak (to)’.
There is only a little literature on this topic. Dixon (1991: 286–93) dis-
cusses verb types in English. Austin (1997) surveys verbs which typically
enter into valency-increasing derivations in Australian languages; he finds
that those intransitive verbs which are most open to a causative derivation are
‘fall’, ‘turn’ and ‘climb, go up’, and those which are most open to an applicative
derivation are ‘laugh’, ‘cry’, ‘play’, ‘go’, ‘return’ and ‘sit’. Kazenin (1994)
has a useful discussion of this topic, comparing Fijian (data from Dixon
1988: 204–14), Asiatic Eskimo and Bambara. He notes inter-language sim-
ilarities and also differences; for instance, ‘manipulative verbs with a highly
affected O’ tend to be in class (1) for Fijian but in class (2) for Asiatic
Eskimo. (See also Rice’s discussion, in chapter 6, of verbs in Athapaskan
languages which take the impersonal passive and the personal passive.)
The transitivity and derivational propensities for verbs of different semantic
types is a large topic, which should be a focus for future research. The remarks
here are to be regarded as informal and preliminary.
8 Alternative construction types
The syntactic, semantic and discourse effects that are in many languages
achieved by valency-decreasing derivations can in other languages be cov-
ered by alternative grammatical means. In chapter 10 Reid describes the quite
unusual structure of Ngan'gityemerri. In this language a predicate will typic-
ally involve two verbal elements, coverb and finite verb, each of which has
its own transitivity value. Most often coverb and finite verb agree in trans-
itivity, but they can have different values. For instance, when a monovalent
coverb occurs with a transitive finite verb there is a causative effect, and
when a high transitive coverb is used with an intransitive finite verb there is
an anticausative effect. However, as Reid stresses, there is no derivation
involved, merely alternative combinations of coverb and finite verb.
The Jarawara language of southern Amazonia adopts a further scenario.
In this language there are simply two transitive constructions. The A-
construction has the A argument as pivot (rather like an active clause in a
syntactically accusative language) and the O-construction has O as pivot
(like an active clause in a syntactically ergative language). It is not sensible
to treat one construction type as ‘derived’ from the other (an active/passive
or an antipassive/active pair); each is fully transitive.
22 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
The alternation between two construction types in Jarawara fulfils the same
sort of discourse role (in pivot feeding) as do valency-changing derivations in
other languages. There is no inherent semantic difference between the con-
struction types, but there is a semantic conditioning, which shows similarities
to the semantic preferences which motivate the use of passive and antipassive
derivations in other languages. The O-construction is restricted to clauses
where O is 3rd person (with a historically recent extension to clauses where
the A is 3rd person and the O 1st or 2nd person, but only if tense-modal and
mood suffixes are included). In a similar way, in other languages a passive
derivation is employed most often when A is 3rd and O is 1st or 2nd person,
while an antipassive is most often used in complementary circumstances, when
A is 1st or 2nd and O is 3rd person. (Full details concerning Jarawara are in
Dixon, forthcoming.)
The inverse in Athapaskan (and in some other languages) is another ex-
ample of alternative construction types (rather than there being one basic type
with the other derived from it). Inverses are not treated in this volume but
they are discussed in Dixon and Aikhenvald (1997: 98–100; and see refer-
ences quoted there).
9 The studies in this volume
Chapter 2 provides a cross-linguistic typological study of causatives. This is
followed by ten individual case studies.
In chapter 3 Marianne Mithun provides an accessible account of Central
Alaskan Yup'ik (Eskimo), discussing the various causative and applicative
suffixes, two passive-like derivations (which focus, in different ways, on the
resulting state), and several antipassive-like devices. Chapter 4 deals with
a language from the other side of the world – Motuna, a Papuan (i.e. non-
Austronesian) language spoken on the island of Bougainville in Papua New
Guinea. Masayuki Onishi describes the complex array of clause types and
transitivity classes of verbs, the causative and applicative valency-increasing
derivations, the reciprocal and deagentive valency-decreasing derivations, and
finally a stimulative valency-rearranging derivation.
Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald, in chapter 5, discusses Tariana, an Arawak lan-
guage from northern Amazonia, where all transitive verbs are in fact S = A
ambitransitive and there are three subclasses of intransitives – Sa (where S is
marked like A in a transitive), So (S marked like O) and Sio (S marked like an
indirect object). She details the passive, the reciprocal derivation, the three
Introduction 23
strategies for forming causatives (morphological, periphrastic, and by a serial
verb construction) and other argument-adding derivations. In chapter 6 Keren
Rice provides a comparative study, across the Athapaskan language family,
of two derivational affixes, -l-, which is essentially argument-increasing (typic-
ally causative) and d which is essentially argument-decreasing, covering a
dozen different senses. She provides detailed and insightful information on
the parameters of variation – function, meaning, productivity and the like.
Lyle Campbell, in chapter 7, considers K'iche', a Mayan language spoken
in highlands Guatemala, also including comparative remarks on other Mayan
languages. There are two varieties of passive and two of antipassive (one
with non-prototypical syntax), a causative, and an instrumental applicative
which only goes on to transitive verbs. In chapter 8, Randy LaPolla discusses
a Tibeto-Burman language which is spoken both in China, where it is called
Dulong, and in Myanmar (Burma) where it has come to be called Rawang
([rBwaD]). There are two valency-reducing affixes, E- which has a general
intransitivizing function (including reciprocal) and -shì, glossed as ‘reflexive/
middle’. LaPolla discusses two types of causative (morphological and peri-
phrastic) and an applicative benefactive, together with other ways of increasing
transitivity. Then, in chapter 9, Mengistu Amberber considers the Ethio-
Semitic language Amharic, spoken in Ethiopia. He discusses transitivity
classes, the general detransitivizer tE- (which covers passive, anticausative and
reflexive), two morphological causatives, a periphrastic causative, and two
applicatives.
The Australian language Ngan'gityemerri, discussed by Nicholas Reid in
chapter 10, has only one actual argument-affecting derivation, a type of
applicative marked by -mi-, which has developed from an incorporated noun
meaning ‘eye’. It does, however, have other syntactic devices which are func-
tionally equivalent to the derivational processes reported in other chapters –
basically, different combinations (within one predicate) of transitive and
intransitive coverbs with transitive and intransitive finite verbs.
In chapter 11 Bernard Comrie discusses Tsez, a Daghestanian language
from the North-east Caucasian family. In note 1 he states that ‘the trio S, A,
P is used in this chapter rather than the S, A, O of most other contributions
[in fact, of chapters 1–2 and 4–10], to avoid a terminology that could be
misinterpreted as saying that the prototypically patient-like argument of a
two-place predicate is necessarily, or even prototypically, a syntactic object;
see further Comrie (1978). While this distinction does reflect a significant
difference in philosophical standpoint, for the purposes of this chapter the
two sets of terms can be taken as notationally equivalent.’ Turning to Comrie
24 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(1978: 330–1) we find the statements: ‘S refers to the single argument of an
intransitive verb . . . A refers to that argument of a transitive verb which
would be its subject in a non-ergative language like English . . . and P refers
to the argument which would be the direct object.’
Tsez is interesting in that, unlike most other Daghestanian languages, it has
no ambitransitive (or labile) verbs, but can use intransitive and transitive
suffixes to achieve the same end. The only productive valency-changing deriva-
tion involves causative suffix -r; this can be added to a verb of any trans-
itivity and may apply iteratively. The balance of Comrie’s chapter is devoted
to a discussion of which argument is the ‘privileged NP’, i.e. the ‘trigger
or target’ for a particular aspect of the syntax. This is shown to be S or A
with respect to all of (a) constituent order; (b) reflexive constructions; and
(c) coreferential NP omission in certain clause combinations. Concerning (b),
we noted under (3) in §4 above that in all languages (whether accusative or,
like Tsez, ergative) the antecedent in a reflexive is A or S (see Dixon 1994:
138–9). Observation (c) is particularly interesting, indicating that although Tsez
has a predominantly ergative morphology, it has accusative syntax, working
with an S/A pivot in at least one part of its grammar (in the sense of ‘pivot’
discussed in Dixon 1994: 152–80). Very little information had previously
been published on pivots in languages of the North-east Caucasian family.
In chapter 12 Jack Martin discusses Creek, a Muskogean language spoken
in the south-east of the USA. He adopts a different theoretical stance from the
other authors in this volume, suggesting that this language lacks obvious
diagnostics for transitivity or for distinguishing the core syntactic/semantic
functions S, A and O. This could be taken to imply that Creek has a rather
different structural profile from the other languages discussed in this volume.
We believe that it does not. Martin’s difficulties with deciding on the trans-
itivity of such Creek verbs as ‘see’ and ‘go to’ are not dissimilar to those
faced by a grammarian of English in dealing with, for example, look (at the
beach) and sleep (at the beach). In fact Martin does refer to transitivity and
valency, and to subject and object throughout his chapter. He states: ‘describ-
ing the Creek middle as valency-reducing fails to explain why it fails to
create S = A intransitives’. We would agree; one has to specify which kind of
valency-changing derivation it is – passive, agentless passive, anticausative,
antipassive, patientless antipassive, reflexive, reciprocal, etc. (In fact it is an
anticausative.)
Martin’s comments concerning ‘the issue of the degree to which grammars
have the ability to count’ seems to us to be tilting at a straw-man. The
types of derivation described in this volume have the effect of adding a core
Introduction 25
argument, removing a core argument or manipulating arguments. The con-
sequence of forming a causative on an intransitive verb, for instance, is to add
a new argument, the causer (in A function). This is what the derivation does;
the fact that this serves to increase the valency of the verb by one is simply a
concomitant effect.
10 Topics for further investigation
Linguistics is at a rather early stage of development. Our understanding of
the kinds of parameters which languages operate with – and why they do –
requires considerable refinement. The most basic need is for detailed explana-
tory grammars of individual languages, primarily based on the study of texts,
augmented by judicious elicitation (rather than using elicitation as the main
source of data), and cast in terms of basic linguistic theory. These grammars
will provide the foundations for future typological work – positing general-
izations about the structure of human languages.
The studies in this volume show the value of a holistic approach. A par-
ticular valency-changing derivation must be discussed in the context of the
overall grammatical organization of the language; this can only be done by
someone who has studied the entire grammar and has a finely tuned under-
standing of how its components interrelate. In particular, for each type of
derivation one should simultaneously discuss its meaning, its morphological
(or periphrastic) marking, its syntactic effect and its discourse role.
Fruitful lines of enquiry for future research include:
(1) Study of the types of passive, antipassive, causative and applicative
derivations in individual languages and then cross-linguistically. How
these differ from the prototypical schemas suggested here. In the
case of passive, for example, what sort of different weightings may
be given to its three main effects: drawing attention to the original
O; downgrading the original A; and focussing on the state the ori-
ginal O is in, as a result of the activity reported by the verb.
For each type of derivation we need to enquire whether one aspect
of it is primary – this could be syntactic, semantic or discourse-
pragmatic.
(2) There is need for a typological study of applicatives, parallel to that
on causatives provided in chapter 2 here. There are many semantic
varieties of applicatives, according to the semantic role of the argu-
ment that is brought into O function (and this, in turn, relates to the
26 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
meaning of the verb). One particular point for study is the correla-
tion between whether a particular applicative applies to intransitive
or to transitive verbs (or to both) and its meaning.
(3) Our preliminary impression is that, across the languages of the world,
there tend to be more valency-increasing derivations (comitative and
applicative) than valency-reducing derivations (passive, antipassive,
reflexive, reciprocal, etc.). This needs to be verified, through study
of a large representative sample of languages; if it is true, linguists
should seek an explanation.
(4) Diachronic development has only been touched on in a few of the
chapters here. We need to ask: (a) how derivational affixes develop
(what is their lexical or other source); and (b) how a derivational
affix may lose its full productivity, becoming restricted to just a few
forms where it is lexicalized (and may have an idiomatic meaning).
A further topic for study is how one kind of valency-changing deriva-
tion can develop into a different kind (discussed for Yup'ik by Mithun,
in chapter 3).
Diachronic development also relates to the patterns of lexicalization
of causatives and applicatives (considered, for instance, by Comrie
in chapter 12 and by Mithun in chapter 3), of passives (as in Modern
Hebrew, see Aikhenvald 1990: 67–8), of antipassives and of reflexives
(see Haviland 1979: 126–7 for an account of verbs in the Australian
language Guugu-Yimidhirr which inherently include the reflexive/
antipassive suffix -:dhi). This topic is also in need of cross-linguistic
study.
(5) Syntactic operations such as noun incorporation are likely to have
syntactic, semantic and discourse-pragmatic effects. These may ex-
tend to argument manipulation and valency change (as described for
Ngan'gityemerri by Reid in §4 of chapter 10). This also requires
study in individual languages, ahead of attempts at cross-linguistic
generalization.
(6) A certain semantic effect can be associated with one type of
valency-changing derivation in a given language, but with a quite
different type in a further language. For instance, in chapter 3 Mithun
describes how adversative effect is associated with one variety of
passive in Yup'ik whereas in chapter 8 LaPolla shows how adversat-
ive is linked to a valency-increasing derivation in Dulong/Rawang.
And, as noted in §4 above, there is an adversative derivation in
Japanese (misleadingly called ‘adversative passive’) which normally
Introduction 27
increases valency. Cross-linguistic study of the varied valency-
changing associations of a given semantic parameter should be a
priority for further research.
(7) There is real need for study of the possible combinations of deriva-
tional processes in individual languages. A few of the contributors
below consider this question. In chapter 6 Rice shows that in
Athapaskan languages some verbs can take middle (normally marked
by d) plus causative (normally l), the combination being marked by
a fused element l. In chapter 8 LaPolla states that Dulong/Rawang
allows causative plus reflexive and draws attention to dialect dif-
ferences. In chapter 12, Martin states that Creek does not permit
causative plus middle, but that the dative applicative, the instrumental
applicative and the causative are compatible with each other. Dixon
(1972: 246–7) shows that in Dyirbal one can have (i) antipassive,
reflexive or reciprocal marking; followed by (ii) comitative or in-
strumental applicative; followed by (iii) reflexive again (but not
antipassive or reciprocal); followed by (iv) applicative again.
A language may have a number of applicative derivations, with
different meanings; these are particularly likely to co-occur. Study is
needed of which combinations are found.
The allowable combinations of derivational processes may be found
to depend on the particular meaning and function of these processes
in individual languages. Alternatively, some cross-linguistic general-
izations may turn out to be possible.
(8) One important task is to investigate the varying transitivity profiles
of languages. As LaPolla mentions (in note 7 to chapter 8), some
languages have transitivity as a more prominent category than others;
this may relate, in large part, to the number of ambitransitive verbs
in the language. Detailed study is needed – of individual languages,
and also cross-linguistically.
(9) A fruitful topic for study would be how the semantics of a verb will
determine its transitivity and the type(s) of derivational processes
that it takes part in (and the extent to which it takes part in them),
following up the preliminary remarks in §7 above.
(10) There may be a dependency relation between the application of a
valency-changing derivation and some category in the grammar. For
instance, in chapter 6 Rice mentions that, for Athapaskan languages,
perfectivity is not marked in ‘middles’. This is another topic worthy
of study, across a well-chosen sample of the world’s languages.
28 R.M.W. Dixon and Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
References
Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1990. Sovremennyj Ivrit [Modern Hebrew]. Moscow: Nauka.
Forthcoming. ‘Serial constructions and verb compounding: evidence from Tariana
(North Arawak)’, to appear in Studies in Language.
Austin, P. 1981. A grammar of Diyari, South Australia. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
1997. ‘Causatives and applicatives in Australian Aboriginal languages’, pp. 165–
225 of The dative and related phenomena, ed. K. Matsumura and T. Hayasi.
Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Comrie, B. 1978. ‘Ergativity’, pp. 329–94 of Syntactic typology: studies in the phe-
nomenology of language, ed. W.P. Lehmann. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Cooreman, A. 1994. ‘A functional typology of antipassives’, pp. 49–88 of Voice:
form and function, ed. B. Fox and P.J. Hopper. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1972. The Dyirbal language of North Queensland. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
1977. A grammar of Yidio. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1981. ‘Wargamay’, pp. 1–144 of Handbook of Australian languages, Vol. II, ed.
R.M.W. Dixon and B.J. Blake. Canberra: Australian National University Press.
1988. A grammar of Boumaa Fijian. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1991. A new approach to English grammar, on semantic principles. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1999. ‘Semantic roles and syntactic functions: the semantic basis for a typology’, to
appear in CLS 35.
Forthcoming. ‘A-constructions and O-constructions in Jarawara’.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined
constructions’, pp. 71–113 of Essays on language function and language type,
ed. J. Bybee, J. Haiman and S.A. Thompson. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
England, N.C. 1983. A grammar of Mam, a Mayan language. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Haspelmath, M. 1990. ‘The grammaticization of passive morphology’, Studies in
Language 14.25–72.
Haviland, J. 1979. ‘Guugu Yimidhirr’, pp. 27–180 of Handbook of Australian lan-
guages, Vol. I, ed. R.M.W. Dixon and B.J. Blake. Canberra: Australian National
University Press.
Hopper, P.J. and Thompson, S.A. 1980. ‘Transitivity in grammar and discourse’,
Language 56.251–99.
Kazenin, K.I. 1994. ‘On the lexical alternation of Agent-preserving and Object-
preserving transitivity alternations’, Nordic Journal of Linguistics 17.141–54.
Kemmer, S. 1993. The middle voice, Typological studies in language 23. Amsterdam,
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Keyser, S.J. and Roeper, T. 1984. ‘On the middle and ergative constructions in Eng-
lish’, Linguistic Inquiry 15.381–416.
Kimenyi, A. 1980. A relational grammar of Kinyarwanda. Berkeley and Los Angeles:
University of California Press.
Introduction 29
Lyons, J. 1968. Introduction to theoretical linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Mithun, M. 1984. ‘The evolution of noun incorporation’, Language 64.847–94.
Nichols, J. 1982. ‘Ingush transitivization and detransitivization’, BLS 8.445–62.
1985. ‘Switch-reference causatives’, CLS 21.193–203.
Oswalt, R.L. 1977. ‘The causative as a reference switching mechanism in Western
Pomo’, BLS 3.46–54.
Robinson, S. ms. ‘Valency changing derivations in Tzotzil (Mayan)’.
Shibatani, M. 1990. The languages of Japan. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Forthcoming. Voice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Siewierska, A. 1984. Passive: a comparative linguistic analysis. London: Croom Helm.
Thompson, C. 1996. ‘The Na-Dene middle voice: an impersonal source of the D-
element’, International Journal of American Linguistics 62.351–78.
30 R.M.W. Dixon
2 A typology of causatives:
form, syntax and meaning
R.M.W. DIXON
1 Introduction1
This chapter will survey causative constructions in terms of three parameters:
their formal marking, their syntax and their semantics. It will also investigate
dependencies between the parameters.
I work in terms of a basic theoretical framework. In any language verbal
clauses can be categorized as (i) intransitive, with one core argument, in S
function; (ii) transitive, with at least two core arguments, in A and O func-
tions (there are subtypes: simple transitive and ditransitive); and (iii) copula,
involving two core arguments, in copula subject and copula complement
functions (in some languages the copula complement may be omittable).
Within a transitive clause, that core argument whose referent has the potential
to initiate or control the activity is linked to A function, and that core argu-
ment whose referent may be saliently affected by the activity is linked to O
function.
A causative construction is sometimes described as involving ‘two events’.
Frawley (1992: 159) talks of ‘a precipitating event’ and ‘a result’, and Shibatani
(1976a: 1) of ‘a causing event’ and ‘a caused event’. I prefer a quite different
characterization – a causative construction involves the specification of an
additional argument, a causer, onto a basic clause. A causer refers to someone
or something (which can be an event or state) that initiates or controls the
activity. This is the defining property of the syntactic–semantic function A
(transitive subject).
1
For their constructive comments on a draft of this chapter I am most grateful to Alexandra Y.
Aikhenvald, Mengistu Amberber, Timothy Jowan Curnow, Gerrit Dimmendaal, Geoffrey Haig,
Bh. Krishnamurti, Randy LaPolla, Jack Martin, Masayuki Onishi and Nicholas Reid.
A typology of causatives 31
That is, if a causative construction is formed by derivation, it will involve
the addition of a new argument in A function (the causer). In the causative of
an intransitive clause the original S argument (the causee) will almost always
go into O function in the new transitive clause (with the causer being A). In
the causative of a transitive, the causer always becomes A; then the original
A (the causee) and/or O arguments generally have their syntactic functions
reassigned. There are several different ways of achieving this, described in
§3.2 below.
There are a number of syntactic derivations that change valency. We have
valency-reducing derivations such as passive (removing the A argument from
the core) and antipassive (removing the O argument). There are two varieties
of valency-increasing derivations: causative adds a new A argument (proto-
typically to an intransitive clause – the old S becoming O – often also to a
transitive) and applicative adds a new O argument (to an intransitive – the old
S becoming A – or to a transitive – the old A staying as is and the old O
moving to the periphery of the clause).
In some languages a single morphological process may mark more than
one syntactic function. In Korean, for example, the suffix -ita has causative
effect with one set of verbs and passive with another set. The sets do overlap
– thus pota ‘see’ has derived form po-ita, which can have a passive inter-
pretation ‘be seen’ or a causative one ‘show’ (i.e. ‘make see’) (Sohn 1994: 314.)
Presumably, the senses are disambiguated by the syntax of the clause in
which they occur and by discourse context. Shopen and Konaré (1970: 238)
describe a similar situation in Sonrai (or Songhai, Nilo-Saharan family) where
verbal suffix -ndi can mark either causative or agentless passive on the same
verb (and a verb can take two tokens of -ndi, one causative and one agentless
passive, so that na-ndi-ndi is, literally ‘[the rice] was made to be eaten [by
someone: causee] [by someone: causer]’.
For a morphological process to have both valency-reducing and valency-
increasing effect, as in Korean and Sonrai, is quite rare. We more commonly
encounter a derivational affix which encodes two valency-reducing functions
(e.g. passive and antipassive – see Dixon 1994: 151–2) or the two valency-
increasing functions, causative and applicative. In the Australian language
Yidiny, for example, the verbal suffix -na- has applicative effect with some
verbs (e.g. intransitive manga- ‘laugh’, applicative manga-na- ‘laugh at’) but
causative effect with others (e.g. intransitive warrngi- ‘turn around’, causat-
ive warrngi-na- ‘turn (something) around’). There is again some overlap –
from bila- ‘go in’ is derived bila-na- which can have either an applicative
32 R.M.W. Dixon
sense ‘go in with’ or a causative sense ‘put in’; it would be likely to be
disambiguated by the discourse context (Dixon 1977: 302–39). See Austin
(1997) for similar examples from other Australian languages, and Comrie
(1985: 329–30) for examples from Chukchee and Wolof. In this chapter we
shall just examine the causative form and meanings of such multi-functional
morphological processes.
Other valency-changing derivations typically have discourse-determined
roles (among other uses). A passive will put an original O argument into
derived S function, which may satisfy an S/A pivot constraint on clause
linking. An antipassive will put an original A into derived S function to
satisfy an S/O pivot constraint. An applicative will take a peripheral argu-
ment and place it in core function O, which may enable it to function as
syntactic pivot (in a language with ergative syntax) or as discourse topic.
A causative derivation takes an S argument (which is a pivot function for
both syntactically accusative and syntactically ergative languages) and places
it in derived O function. This suggests that a causative would be unlikely to
be used for discourse effect, and will normally be employed just for semantic
reasons. Study of grammars bears out this idea, that a causative construction
will seldom be used to satisfy the demands of discourse organization. How-
ever, this does happen occasionally. In Tariana a causative construction can
be used to satisfy the ‘same subject and same object constraint’ on serial verb
constructions (Aikhenvald, forthcoming); Oswalt (1977), O’Connor (1992)
and Nichols (1985) describe a similar function in some Pomo languages and
in Chechen-Ingush. And Mithun (in chapter 3 of this volume) exemplifies
the discourse-determined use of a causative in a Yup'ik text. The last line of
Mithun’s example (60) could have been stated as ‘I would stand in the door-
way and she [grandmother] would bless me.’ However, the topic for this
stretch of text is ‘grandmother’ and in order to integrate ‘I would stand in the
doorway’ into the discourse it is stated as a causative: ‘She [grandmother]
would have me stand in the doorway, blessing me.’
The causer in a causative construction can refer to a person (e.g. ‘Mary
made me laugh’) or an abstract thing (e.g. ‘The heat of the sun made me feel
dizzy’ or ‘John’s lecture made me feel sleepy’) or an event, coded through a
complement clause (e.g. ‘Walking all day made me tired’).
In this chapter I adopt a narrow interpretation of prototypical ‘causative
construction’ – it must involve a morphological process, or a verb which only
has an abstract, causative meaning (or a lexical pair whose members are in
causative relation). In English, make only has causative meaning while order
also refers to an act of speaking. In view of this, Mary made John go is
A typology of causatives 33
treated as a causative construction, but Mary ordered John to go is not. Other
investigators permit a wider scope for the label ‘causative’. For instance,
Song (1996: 36) accepts as a causative construction a sentence which is
literally translated as ‘I speak and child eats’. The difficulty then is in know-
ing where to draw the line.
It is not sufficient, when writing the grammar of a language, just to say that
it has a causative construction. All causative constructions have in common
the addition of an A argument (the causer) to an underlying clause and this
provides the basic semantic/syntactic criterion for recognizing a causative
construction in a given language. But languages differ a great deal in the
syntax of their causatives and in the specific meanings attached to them.
There may be a restriction that the causee (the S or A of the underlying
clause) must be animate, or that it can only be inanimate. In some languages
the causative construction may only be used if the causer acted intentionally
(not accidentally). And so on. Some languages have two or more causative
mechanisms and these always have different meanings. A study of such con-
structions reveals nine semantic parameters which relate to causatives; these
are discussed and exemplified in §4 below. Note that when dealing with a
language that has just one type of causative, a linguist should take care to
specify its semantics, in terms of the parameters presented in §4.
§2 describes types of causative constructions in terms of their formal mark-
ing. §3 then discusses the syntax of causatives – particularly those based on
simple transitive and on ditransitive clauses – in relation to their formal
marking. Following the presentation of semantic parameters (in §4), there is
in §5 a study of the correlations between meaning and formal marking.
2 Formal mechanisms
I begin by describing causatives marked by a morphological process applied
to the verb of the underlying clause, then go on to discuss causatives that
involve two verbs making up a single predicate, then biclausal (or peri-
phrastic) causative constructions. §2.4 looks at lexical pairs that are in causat-
ive relation, and at ambitransitive verbs of type S = O, which can be regarded
as causatives. In §2.5 we look at languages that achieve a causative effect by
exchanging the auxiliaries which accompany a lexical verb.
2.1 Morphological processes
A causative construction may be marked by a morphological process having
applied to the verb of the clause. Such a process can consist in (a) internal
34 R.M.W. Dixon
change, e.g. in vowel quality, or consonant mutation; (b) repeating a conson-
ant; (c) lengthening a vowel; (d) tone change; (e) reduplication; or various
processes of affixation, with (f ) a prefix, (g) a suffix, or (h) a circumfix
(combination of prefix and suffix). Each of these processes is illustrated, for
one sample language, in table 2.1.
Table 2.1. Morphological processes for marking causatives
Process Basic verb Causative form Language (source)
(a) internal tìkti ‘be suitable’ táikyti Lithuanian
change ‘make suitable’ (Senn 1966: 283)
(b) consonant xarab ‘go bad’ xarrab ‘make Gulf Arabic
repetition go bad, ruin’ (Holes 1990: 185)
(c) vowel mar ‘die’ ma:r ‘kill’ Kashmiri
lengthening (Wali and Koul
1997: 211)
(d) tone change n9 (high falling) nZ (low level) Lahu
‘be awake’ ‘awaken, rouse’ (Matisoff 1973: 33)
(e) reduplication bengok ‘shout’ be-bengok Javanese
‘make shout’ (Suhandano 1994: 64–5)
(f ) prefix gmbb) ‘enter’ )-gmbb) ‘insert’ Amharic
(Amberber, ch. 9 below)
(g) suffix -kam- ‘die’ -kam-isa- ‘kill’ K'iche'
(Campbell, ch. 7 below)
(h) circumfix -P'am- ‘eat’ -a-P'm-ev- ‘feed Georgian
(make eat)’ (Aronson 1991: 260)
2.2 Two verbs in one predicate
A number of languages have ‘serial verb constructions’. There are two (or
more) verbs in a clause and they have most or all of the properties of a single
predicate; for example, they take a single specification for TAM, evidentiality
and polarity. A serial verb construction may have causative-type meaning,
e.g. ‘they-hit pig it-die’ meaning ‘they killed the pig by hitting it’ in the
Austronesian language Paamese (Crowley 1987: 43; Lord 1974 describes a
similar construction in Yoruba). But since this does not involve a strictly
causative verb (one which has no meaning other than as a marker of a causat-
ive construction), it falls outside the scope of the present discussion.
In just a few languages the verbs in a serial verb construction must always
share the same subject. Languages of this type do show instances of a strictly
causative verb in a serial construction. Thus, example (40) in Tariana from
A typology of causatives 35
chapter 5 below, by Aikhenvald, is translated as ‘How will I get my children
to eat?’ but is, literally, ‘my children (O) how 1sg(A)-make 1sg(A)-eat’. The
grammatical structure of a serial verb construction in Tariana requires that
‘eat’ be marked with the same pronominal prefix (indicating the causer) as
‘make’, although the interpretation of this sentence is that it is the children
(shown here by an NP marked for non-subject function) who do the eating;
they are the causee in this causative serial verb construction. (Examples (66–
7), from Yimas, in §4 below, illustrate a type of serial verb construction in
which there is a single set of pronominal prefixes for the two verbs, which are
effectively compounded together.)
In some languages with serial verb constructions, the verbs in construc-
tions of this type generally share the same subject, but there may be a special
‘causative’ type where the object of the first verb is subject of the second; this
applies for ‘they-hit pig it-die’ in Paamese, mentioned in the first paragraph
of this sub-section. I have not found any example of a strictly causative verb
in such a construction type (although a wider search may well locate one).
There is another type of analytic causative which, in a quite different man-
ner from serial verb constructions, involves a predicate that includes two
verbs. For instance, French has a causative verb faire, which appears to make
up a single predicate with a following verb. As Comrie (1976: 262–3) points
out, the causee NP cannot come between faire and the following verb (which
must be in infinitive form) but must be placed in oblique function (marked by
preposition à) as normally happens with morphologically marked causatives.
For instance:
(1) je ferai manger les gâteaux à Jean
1sgA make+fut+1sg eat+inf the cakes prep Name
I shall make Jean eat the cakes
Italian, Spanish and Catalan behave in a similar way.
Kiowa (Kiowa-Tanoan family, south-west USA) may constitute a further
example of this type; the transitive verb Xm ‘do, make’ can be compounded
with another verb to create a causative, e.g. (Watkins 1984: 153):
(2) bé-kh
ó-ày-/m
2sgA-now-start.off-caus+imp
Go ahead and run it (the tape recorder)! (lit. make it start off)
2.3 Periphrastic causatives
The third type of causative construction involves two verbs in separate clauses.
Generally, the causative verb is in the main clause while the lexical verb is in
36 R.M.W. Dixon
a complement clause or some other kind of subordinate clause. In Macushi
(Carib family, Brazil) the causee maintains its original function in the sub-
ordinate clause. Thus, in (3), ‘Satan’ is marked by ergative case since it is in
A function in the main clause (with causative verb emapu'tî), and ‘Jesus’ is
also marked by ergative since it is in A function in the subordinate clause
(Abbott 1991: 40):
(3) [imakui'pî kupî Jesus-ya] emapu'tî yonpa-'pî makui-ya teuren
bad do Name-erg caus try-past Satan-erg frust
Satan unsuccessfully tried to make Jesus do bad
Persian also has a periphrastic causative in which the causee retains its func-
tion in the ‘that’ subordinate clause (Mahootian 1997: 225).
Canela-Kraho (Jê family, Brazil) employs a subordinate construction for
causatives, but with a difference. The causee maintains its normal function in
the subordinate clause and is also marked as the O argument of the causative
verb, the causer being the A argument. This language has a pronominal prefix
to the verb which marks the O argument in a transitive clause and the S
argument in an intransitive (an ergative strategy). Thus in (4) the causee
(‘me’) is marked as O for the causative verb -to and as S for the lexical verb
-jdt ‘sleep’ (Popjes and Popjes 1986: 143):
(4) Capi te [i-jdt na] i-to
Name past 1sgS-sleep subordinator 1sgO-caus
Capi made me sleep
English differs from Macushi, Persian and Canela-Kraho in that a causat-
ive verb is followed by a to-type complement clause, e.g. I forced him to go,
I made him go, I allowed her to go. The causee is the original subject of the
subordinate clause (with verb go) but is coded with accusative case, as the
object of the causative verb.
We thus have three different ways of marking the causee within a peri-
phrastic causative construction. In Macushi it is marked for its function in the
subordinate clause, as in (3); in English it is marked for its function in the
main clause (the clause with the causative verb); and in Canela-Kraho, shown
in (4), it is marked for both of these.
A note is in order at this point concerning causative verbs in English. The
convention in present-day linguistics is that a grammatical label should be
based on a word of Romance origin – hence ‘causative’. From this has arisen
the misconception that cause is the prototypical causative verb in English.
It is not; make is. Cause is a causative verb but it has a more specialized
A typology of causatives 37
meaning (implying indirect causation) than make and it is much less com-
mon. Make differs from most other causative verbs, and from most other
verbs that take to complement clauses, in that it omits the to in active clauses,
although to must be included in the passive. (Compare The nurse made me
swallow it with I was made to swallow it (by the nurse). For fuller discussion
see Dixon 1991: 192–8, 247–8.) This could be the preliminary stage to a
diachronic shift which sees make become a ‘same predicate’ causative verb,
like faire in French, and then perhaps a compounded causative, like Xm in
Kiowa.
It is interesting to compare Portuguese with the other Western Romance
languages. Portuguese is like English in that the causee can come between the
causative verb fazer and the lexical verb in infinitive form. Thus (cf. Aissen
1974: 354):
(5) Eu fiz José comer os bolos
1sg make+past+1sg Name eat+infin the cakes
I made José eat the cakes
Compare with (1) in French, which has moved towards a more synthetic
structure in which nothing can now intervene between the causative verb
faire and the following infinitive manger. But note that French maintains a
structure like (5) for other causative-type verbs such as laisser ‘let, allow’.
Hale (1997) discusses periphrastic causative constructions in languages of
the Misumalpan family (Nicaragua and Honduras). These are unusual in that
it is the causative verb which is in the subordinate clause, e.g.:
(6) yang baka kau ât-ing wauhdi-da
1sg child acc caus-ds+1sg fall-past+3sg
I made the child fall
Hale notes that causative constructions have different grammatical properties
from other kinds of clause sequences with switch-reference marking. For
instance, if the verb ‘fall’ in (6) is negated this has scope over the whole
sentence (i.e. we get ‘I did not make the child fall’ rather than ‘I made the
child not fall’). If the verb in the subordinate clause were non-causative, a
negator applied to the main verb would have scope only over that clause.
This suggests that in a Misumalpan causative construction the two clauses are
more tightly integrated than in a normal switch-reference construction. This
could be the first stage in a process of grammaticalization, which might lead
to a ‘two verbs in one predicate’ construction, and perhaps from that to the
development of causative as a verbal affix.
38 R.M.W. Dixon
2.4 Lexical causatives
We can now consider a kind of causative that involves neither a morpho-
logical process nor separate causative verbs – lexical causatives. These are of
two kinds: (a) when a single lexeme can be used in either a causative or a
non-causative function; and (b) when there are two unrelated forms, that appear
to be in causative relation.
(a) One lexeme
In some languages every verb is either strictly transitive (appearing only in
transitive clauses) or strictly intransitive (appearing only in intransitive clauses).
Other languages have a number of ambitransitive (or ‘labile’) verbs that can
occur in either clause type. There are two varieties of ambitransitives:
(i) S = A, e.g. knit in English, as in Mary (S) is knitting, and Mary (A)
is knitting a scarf (O).
(ii) S = O, e.g. trip and spill in English, as in John (S) tripped and Mary
(A) tripped John (O); and in John (A) spilled the milk (O) and The
milk (S) spilled.
Now for some S = O verbs native speakers’ intuitions are that the lexeme is
primarily transitive and only secondarily intransitive; this applies to spill,
smash and extend, among other verbs. For other S = O verbs the intransitive
sense is considered to be primary, e.g. trip, explode, melt, dissolve, walk and
march (see Dixon 1991: 291–3). For the latter set it is plausible to suggest
that we have a causative relationship.
That is, verbs like trip, dissolve and march are basically intransitive but
can be used in a transitive clause and then take on a causative meaning,
similar to that marked by a morphological process or by a periphrastic verb in
other languages.
Examples similar to those just given for English are provided for Greek
by Joseph and Philippaki-Warburton (1987: 170). For the North American
language Tunica, Haas (1941: 46) states that any non-causative intransitive
stem may become causative through being inflected like a transitive verb. For
instance ‘we find that ha'pa has the function of an intransitive stem meaning
“to stop, cease” when it undergoes non-causative inflection but assumes the
function of a transitive stem meaning “to cause . . . to stop, cease” when it
undergoes causative inflection’. Li and Thompson (1976: 478) list a number
of verbs of this type in Classical Chinese.
Fijian (Austronesian family) has a slightly different system. Here about
80 per cent of verb roots can be used either transitively (with a transitive suffix)
A typology of causatives 39
or intransitively (lacking the suffix). That is, most verbs are ambitransitive,
but with the presence or absence of a suffix marking their transitivity value.
Just over half are of type S = A (e.g. laqo ‘go’, laqo-va ‘go for’) with the
remainder being of type S = O (e.g. loqi ‘be bent’, loqi-va ‘bend’). The sec-
ond set could be regarded as a type of causative patterning. See the discus-
sion under parameter 8 in §4 below (and Dixon 1988: 45, 204–14). Note that
other Oceanic languages have similar properties.
(b) Two lexemes
In quite a number of languages one can assemble pairs of lexemes (with quite
different forms), one intransitive and the other appearing to be a causative
correspondent of it.
Thus, for Yimas (Lower Sepik family, Papuan region), Foley (1991: 289)
lists a number of lexical pairs, including the following:
(7) intransitive transitive
mal- ‘die’ tu- ‘kill’
awa- ‘burn’ ampu- ‘burn’
aypu- ‘lie down’ tI- ‘lay down’
In Dyirbal (Australian) lexical pairs of this type include:
(8) intransitive transitive
mayi- ‘come out’ bundi- ‘take out’
gaynyja- ‘break’ bana- ‘break’
jana- ‘stand’ jarra- ‘put standing’
And in English we get:
(9) intransitive/copula transitive
be dead kill
come out take out
lie lay
It is relevant to enquire what the criteria are for linking distinct lexemes in
this way. A major one is semantic, as can be seen by translation between
languages. In English we have a single lexeme burn, with intransitive and
causative senses, e.g. The grass burned and I burned the grass. Yimas would
use awa- in translation of the first sentence and ampu- in translation of the
second.
In Dyirbal there is a further criterion. The verbs given in (8) are from the
everyday speech style, called Guwal. There is also a ‘mother-in-law’ speech
style, Dyalnguy, used in the presence of taboo relatives. Dyalnguy has fewer
40 R.M.W. Dixon
lexemes than Guwal. In the case of two Guwal verbs that have the same
meaning but just differ in transitivity, Dyalnguy simply has a transitive verb,
which corresponds to the transitive member of the Guwal pair, with an
intransitivizing derivational suffix -rri- used for the correspondent of the
intransitive member. Thus, the verbs in (8) have Dyalnguy correspondents as
follows (Dixon 1972: 297; 1982: 83):
(10) everyday style mother-in-law style
(Guwal) (Dyalnguy)
(a) transitive bundi- yilwu- ‘take out’
intransitive mayi- yilwu-rri- ‘come out’
(b) transitive bana- yuwa- ‘break’
intransitive gaynyja- yuwa-rri- ‘break’
(c) transitive jarra- dinda- ‘put standing’
intransitive jana- dinda-rri- ‘stand’
The fact that Dyalnguy uses a single verbal form for each pair of verbs in Guwal
indicates that they do have the same meaning, and differ just in transitivity.
A further criterion comes from observation of how language is used; we
can here quote an example from English. On 12 February 1996, in Australia,
there was a televised pre-election debate between the Prime Minister, Paul
Keating, and the Leader of the Opposition, John Howard (a few weeks later
Howard won the election and became Prime Minister). Keating accused
Howard of using his party’s numbers in the upper house to kill a bill that
would have generated more revenue. Howard denied that he had wanted to
kill it. Addressing the chairman and television viewers, Keating responded:
(11) He didn’t want to kill it, he only wanted to make it dead
It is clear that Keating used make dead as a paraphrase of kill; that is, as
having the same meaning.
We saw in §2.3 the mistaken idea that the main causative verb in English
is cause. In the 1960s it was suggested that, for instance, kill can be derived
from cause to die. Fodor (1970) presented a number of arguments against this
analysis, e.g. one can say John caused Bill to die on Sunday by stabbing him
on Saturday but not *John killed Bill on Sunday by stabbing him on Satur-
day. This is because cause has a rather special meaning, referring to indirect
causation which can involve a time lapse. As demonstrated by Paul Keating,
the meaning of kill is the same as that of the unmarked causative verb make
plus be dead. All of the difficulties experienced with cause to die are elimin-
ated if make dead is used instead.
A typology of causatives 41
2.5 Exchanging auxiliaries
In chapter 10 of this volume, Reid describes how in Ngan'gityemerri (Aus-
tralian) a predicate generally includes a lexical verb and an auxiliary, each of
which has its own transitivity value. An intransitive verb will prototypically
be used with an intransitive auxiliary. However, it can be used with a trans-
itive auxiliary, which then has causative effect. Thus the verb ‘slip’ plus
the ‘go’ auxiliary is used to describe a simple act of slipping. When the verb
‘slip’ is used with the transitive auxiliary ‘move’, the predicate has the mean-
ing ‘make slip’ – see (16) and (21) in chapter 10. This is not a prototypical
causative since there is no derivation involved. Rather, Ngan'gityemerri em-
ploys a causative strategy, which is functionally and semantically equivalent
to causative derivations in other languages.
Other Australian languages with complex predicates – from the same
geographical area as Ngan'gityemerri – show a similar mechanism for form-
ing causatives; for instance, Mangarayi (Merlan 1982: 132–4). As a later
stage of development, in a further group of Australian languages what was
a causative auxiliary has become a causative derivational suffix (Dixon,
forthcoming).
3 Syntax
The various varieties of causatives, according to the way in which they are
marked, have different syntactic possibilities.
The reported examples of forming causatives by exchanging auxiliaries
apply just to intransitive verbs. For lexical causatives involving two forms
(such as be dead / kill in English or mal-/tu- in Yimas) the non-causative
member is always intransitive. It appears that this mechanism is also limited
to providing causatives of intransitives.
A similar restriction is likely to apply for lexical causatives involving a
single form which can be used in two syntactic frames, such as English trip,
whose basic function is in an intransitive clause, e.g. John (S) tripped, but
which may also be used – with causative function – in a transitive clause, e.g.
Mary (causer: A) tripped John.
The applicability of this kind of causative construction – in a language like
English, where syntactic function is shown by place in constituent order – is
limited by the surface structure possibilities available. Alongside the intrans-
itive John tripped and its causative counterpart Mary tripped John, it is not
possible to construct a causative counterpart for a transitive clause, e.g. John
ate the apple. We cannot say *Mary John ate the apple or *Mary ate John
42 R.M.W. Dixon
the apple, simply because no verb in English can be preceded by two inde-
pendent NPs, and eat cannot be followed by two NPs.
There is, however, one circumstance where English does allow a causative
of a transitive simply by change in constituent order. There is a class of
Secondary Verbs (Dixon 1991: 90–1, 172–9) which simply provide semantic
modification but add no semantic role to the clause to which they are attached,
e.g. start, as in The maid started cleaning the bathroom at ten o’clock. Here
we can form a causative, with the causer (the new A) coming before start
and the causee (the original A) coming between start and the following verb,
e.g. Mother started the maid cleaning the bathroom at ten o’clock. (There
is fuller discussion in Dixon 1991: 296–7.)
Periphrastic causatives generally apply to any intransitive or transitive
(including ditransitive) verb. In §2.3 it was mentioned that in some languages
the causee is the surface O of the transitive verb, while in others it still
maintains its original function with respect to the lexical verb, and in some it
may be marked for both functions. The other arguments of the lexical verb
are retained, e.g. in English He gave the bone to the dog, and Mary made him
give the bone to the dog.
Periphrastic causatives may sometimes also apply to copula clauses. They
do in English, but here the copula verb be can be omitted, e.g. John was
jealous and the causative Mary made John jealous (as a preferred alternative
to Mary made John be jealous).
There is only a little information on languages that have serial causative
constructions, with two verbs in one predicate. In Tariana this causative
mechanism can apply to verbs of any transitivity (but not to a copula). Con-
sider first the simple ditransitive clause in (12).
(12) phia kalisio Yuse isiu pi-kalite-de
2sgA story José for 2sgA-tell-fut
You will tell a story to José
Here kalisi ‘story’ is in O function (it can become S within a derived passive)
and the name Yuse is marked by postposition isiu. Now consider the serial
causative construction in (13).
(13) nuha pina kalisi Yuse isiu [nu-a-de nu-kalite-de]
1sgA 2sgO story José for 1sgA-caus-fut 1sgA-tell-fut
I will make you tell a story to José
The causer (‘I’) is now in A function and is marked by prefix nu- on both
verbs. Both pina ‘you’ and kalisi ‘story’ have the form of an O argument;
A typology of causatives 43
since a serial verb construction in Tariana cannot be passivized there is no
criterion for deciding which of pina and kalisi (if either) is the ‘true object’
(as there is a criterion of this kind for some morphological causatives – see
the discussion of type (iii) in §3.2). Note that constituent order is free in
Tariana, and nu-a-de nu-kalite-de in (13) make up one constituent; these two
words must occur together in this order. (Information on Tariana from
Alexandra Aikhenvald, p.c.)
It is possible that causative serial verb constructions have more limited
applicability in other languages in which they occur, perhaps not applying to
transitive or not to ditransitive verbs. Further information is needed, on other
languages that have the construction and employ an abstract causative verb.
Morphological causatives are syntactically varied. In some languages they
apply only to intransitives, in others only to intransitives and simple transitives
(but not ditransitives), and in others to all verbs. (Examples are given in §4,
§3.3 and §3.2 below.)
Hetzron (1976: 383) notes that, in Hungarian, impersonal verbs (of zero
valency) such as fagy ‘[it] freezes’ and esik ‘[it] rains’ ‘cannot be causativized
for the simple reason that they have no subject that could become a causee’.
However, causatives of impersonal verbs are possible in Nivkh (or Gilyak,
isolate, north-east Russia; Nedjalkov, Otaina and XolodoviQ 1995: 78–9).
It is not usual for a morphological causative to apply to a copula verb, but
this does sometimes happen. Example (14) gives a plain copula clause in
Petats (Austronesian, Papua New Guinea) and (15) the causative version
(information from Evelyn Gitey, via Alexandra Aikhenvald).
(14) u taul e ka-nou taru lekleki-ta-guan
art towel asp copula-3sg+pres on+art shoulder-poss-1sg
There is a towel on my shoulder (lit. A towel is on my shoulder)
(15) eyaw e ha-ka-nou u taul taru lekleki-ta-guan
3sgA asp caus-copula-3sg+pres art towel on+art shoulder-poss-1sg
He put a towel on my shoulder
Other languages in which a morphological causative can apply to a copula in-
clude Hebrew (Alcalay 1974: 519), Turkan (Nilo-Saharan; Gerrit Dimmendaal,
p.c.), Qiang (Tibeto-Burman; LaPolla 1996: 114) and Ainu (isolate, Japan/
Russia; Tamura 1988: 69).
Many languages do not allow a transitive verb to be directly causativized.
One strategy is to first detransitivize the verb, and then apply the causative
derivation. Examples (16–19) are from Paumarí (Arawá family, Brazil; Chap-
man and Derbyshire 1991: 185–6):
44 R.M.W. Dixon
(16) bi-noki-hi ida gora
3sg-see-theme art(f) house(f)
She saw the house
(17) noki-a-hi ida gora
see-detr-theme art(f) house(f)
The house is visible
(18) bi-na-noki-a-hi ida gora
3sg-caus-see-detr-theme art(f) house(f)
He made the house become visible
(19) ho-ra na-noki-a-hi-vini hi-hi ida gora
1sg-acc caus-see-detr-ben-dep aux-theme art(f) house(f)
He showed me the house (lit. He made the house become visible to me)
Sentence (16) is a straightforward transitive with root noki- ‘see’. In (17) the
detransitivizing suffix -a- has been added, giving noki-a- with the O argument
of (16) becoming S of (17) and the original A dropping out. In (18), causative
prefix na- is added, giving na-noki-a- with the S of (17) becoming O of (18),
and a causer brought in as A. In (19) a further derivational suffix is added, the
benefactive applicative -hi- (a different suffix from -hi ‘theme’), producing
verb stem na-noki-a-hi-. This brings a beneficiary (here ‘me’) into O func-
tion with the original O NP from (18), ‘house’, becoming second object. In
summary:
she house he me
(16) transitive A O
(17) add detransitivizer, becomes intransitive S
(18) add causative, becomes transitive O A
(19) add benefactive, becomes ditransitive 2nd O A O
Other languages in which a transitive verb must be made intransitive be-
fore a causative suffix can be added include Bandjalang (Australian; Crowley
1978: 87–8) where an antipassive derivation must first apply, and Southern
Tiwa (Kiowan–Tanoan family; B.J. Allen, Gardiner and Frantz 1984) where a
noun in O function must be incorporated into the transitive verb, producing an
intransitive stem, which then accepts the causative suffix. Further examples
are mentioned in Baker (1988: 193–8) and Song (1996: 179–81).
A typology of causatives 45
The discussion that follows, in §§3.1 – 3.3, relates to intransitive and trans-
itive clauses whose arguments receive what is the canonical case marking
for that language. In some languages there is a small class of verbs (typically
describing physiological states) which take non-canonical marking; the sub-
ject may receive dative or genitive inflection (instead of the canonical nomin-
ative or ergative). In Kannada (Dravidian) a dative-marked subject retains
its marking when the clause is made transitive, e.g. ‘I-dat got.a.headache’,
and ‘you-nom (causer) I-dat got.a.headache+caus’ (‘you made me get a
headache’) (Sridhar 1979: 111; 1990: 219). Note that in this language there is
difficulty in deciding on the transitivity status of both non-causative and
causative clauses with a dative subject.
Other South Asian languages also have a small class of verbs with
non-canonically marked subject. In Bengali (Indo-European) there is a
genitive-marked subject with verbs like ‘have a headache’ and ‘feel good’,
but these cannot be causativized (Masayuki Onishi, p.c.). In Marathi (Indo-
European) the causee in a causative construction must be in control of the
activity; for this reason no causative is possible for dative-subject verbs,
such as ‘get angry’, since these refer to involuntary states (Pandharipande
1997: 406).
3.1 Of intransitives
Virtually every causative mechanism applies to intransitive verbs (quite a few
apply only to intransitives). In every language we get the original S becoming
O of the causative construction, i.e.:
(20) CAUSATIVE OF INTRANSITIVE
underlying clause (intransitive) S
causative construction (transitive) causer: A O
While every language has the schema shown in (20), a number also have an
alternative marking for the original S, which carries a semantic difference.
(a) Japanese allows the original S either to be in O function, marked by
accusative postposition o, or to be marked by dative postposition ni. The
dative alternative indicates that the causee (the original S) does it willingly
(‘let do’), while the accusative alternative indicates that the causee’s inten-
tions were ignored by the causer (‘make do’). See (53–5) in §4 below.
(b) In Hungarian the original S can be marked as O, by accusative case,
indicating that the causer acts directly, e.g. ‘The nurse (causer: A) walked
46 R.M.W. Dixon
him (original S: accusative) for an hour every day’, where the nurse accom-
panied him on the walk. Or, for some verbs, it can be marked by instrumental
case, implying that the causer acted indirectly, e.g. ‘The doctor (causer: A)
had him (original S: instrumental) walk for an hour each day’, where the
doctor just told him to do so. (Hetzron 1976: 394, and see the discussion of
parameter 6 in §4 below.) Sumbatova (1993: 259–60) describes a similar
alternation in Svan (Kartvelian).
Nivkh constitutes a partial exception to schema (20). In this language a
causee (whether originally S or A) is marked by a special ‘causee case suf-
fix’, -ax, if it is animate; if inanimate it receives zero marking (like an O
argument). See (a) under (i) in §3.2.
There can be another sort of variation on the prototypical schema for
causatives of intransitives shown in (20). A number of languages have a split-
S system, where some intransitive verbs have their S argument marked like
the A of a transitive (Sa) and other intransitive verbs have S marked like O
(So). For Wayana (Carib family, Brazil), in the causative of an So-type intrans-
itive, the original So goes into O function. In the causative of a transitive, the
original O stays as is and the original A (the causee) is marked by dative
suffix -ya. In the causative of an Sa-type intransitive, the causer is A and the
original Sa is now marked by dative -ya, just like the original A in the
causative of a transitive (Tavares 1995).
For the great majority of languages each causative construction is syntactic-
ally similar to an existing non-causative clause type. Only very occasionally
does a causative form a new construction type, not found elsewhere in the
grammar. This does occur in Tariana, a split-S language (Aikhenvald, chap-
ter 5 in this volume). Transitive and Sa-type intransitive verbs take a pronom-
inal prefix marking the A or Sa argument while So-type intransitives have no
prefix. Causatives of Sa-type intransitives are normal transitive clauses with a
prefix marking A (the causer).
Just So-type intransitives in Tariana have two alternative causative con-
structions: either (a) with a prefix (for the causer, in A function), indicating
that the causer achieved the result intentionally (e.g. ‘he frightened them, on
purpose’); or (b) with no prefix (the causer being shown just by an NP),
indicating that the result was obtained unintentionally (e.g. ‘the dog’s barking
made me frightened’ when the dog didn’t mean to frighten me). See (22–7) in
chapter 5 below. In Tariana a transitive clause with no pronominal prefix is a
special construction type, found only with an ‘unintentional’ causative of an
So-type intransitive.
A typology of causatives 47
3.2 Of transitives
This section provides a general discussion of the syntax of morphological
causatives of transitive verbs (including ditransitives as a subclass). §3.3 then
looks in more detail at ditransitives.
It is almost always the case that a causative adds an argument; that is, it
increases the valency of the verb by one. Mishmi (Bodic branch of Tibeto-
Burman, north-east India) is noteworthy in that the causative of a transitive
appears to have at most two arguments. There are in fact two causative
suffixes: with -bo just the causee (not the causer) is stated and with -syig just
the causer (not the causee ) is stated. Thus (Sastry 1984: 155–6):
(21) h{ tap} thá-de-bo
1sg+nom rice eat-tense-caus1
I (causee) was made to eat rice (by someone – unstated but implied causer)
(22) h{ tap} thá-syig-a
1sg+nom rice eat-caus2-tense
I (causer) made (someone – unstated but implied causee) eat rice
If one wishes to specify both causer and causee, then the verb must be stated
twice, once with each of the causative suffixes, e.g.:
(23) h{ thá-syig-a, nyú thá-de-bo
1sg+nom eat-caus2-tense 2sg+nom eat-tense-caus1
I made you eat
(The source grammar does not say how the original O argument, ‘rice’,
would be specified in (23).)
Mishmi is highly unusual. In virtually every other language all the original
arguments may be stated, together with the new argument, the causer. As
already described, the causative of an intransitive is a straightforward matter,
with the causer coming in as A and, in almost every instance, the original S
becoming O. The causative of a transitive is often less straightforward, and
shows more variation.
A transitive clause already has two core arguments, in A and O functions.
The causer is always placed in A function (I know of no putative causative
that could be an exception to this). Now in a periphrastic causative construc-
tion, where there are two clauses involved, there is no difficulty in making
provision for all the arguments. As shown in §2.3, the causee can be marked
as O of the causative verb or still as A of the lexical verb, or both at once; the
other arguments of the lexical verb remain unchanged.
48 R.M.W. Dixon
A morphological causative of a transitive verb is itself a transitive clause.
The question now is: what happens to the A and O arguments of the original
clause? There are five main possibilities, shown in (24).
(24) CAUSATIVE OF TRANSITIVE
type causer original A (causee) original O
(i) A special marking O
(ii) A retains A-marking O
(iii) A has O-marking has O-marking
(iv) A O non-core
(v) A non-core O
In type (i) there is a special marking, used just for the causee in a causative
construction. In (ii) both causer and original A receive A-marking. In (iii) the
original A and the original O both receive O-marking. In (iv) the original A
becomes O, and the original O now takes non-core marking. And in (v) the
original O remains as is, while the original A takes peripheral marking.
As already mentioned, a causative generally takes on the form of an
already-existing construction type. It may mirror alternations in a correspond-
ing non-causative construction. For instance, in Yup'ik the verb ‘give’ has
two possible syntactic frames – with the gift as O and the recipient in non-
core function, or vice versa. In similar fashion, the causative of a transitive
has two possible frames – with the original A as new O and the original O as
a non-core argument, type (iv), or vice versa, type (v). See chapter 3 below
by Mithun.
The five possibilities will now be discussed in turn.
Type (i) – special marking for causee
(a) Nivkh has no case marking for S, A, O or indirect object. However,
there is a special case suffix -ax, which is used just to mark an animate causee
(whether original A or S) in a causative construction. (An inanimate causee
takes no marking.) The suffix -ax is generally optional but it is obligatory
when there are already three unmarked NPs as in (26), the causative counter-
part of the ditransitive clause in (25) (Nedjalkov, Otaina and XolodoviQ 1995:
78; Comrie 1976: 267, 274):
(25) dla lep ph
nanak xim-d'
child bread his.older.sister give-finite
The child gave the bread to his older sister
(26) BtBk dla-ax lep ph
nanak xim-=u-d'
father child-causee bread his.older.sister give-caus-finite
The father made/let the child give the bread to his older sister
A typology of causatives 49
(b) The causative of a transitive in Telugu (Dravidian) has the original O
remaining as is with the original A (the causee) being followed by a special
marker, ceeta. This is in fact the instrumental case form of the noun ceeyi
‘hand’ (lit. ‘with the hand’) but here functions as a postposition marking the
causee argument in the causative of a transitive. Note that for the causative of
an intransitive the original S can either be placed in accusative case or can be
marked by ceeta; there is a semantic difference, the first alternative indicating
direct and the second indicating indirect causative – see 6 in §4 below
(Krishnamurti and Gwynn 1985: 202, and Bh. Krishnamurti, p.c.).
Type (ii) – causee retains A-marking
(a) In Kabardian (North-west Caucasian), a language with an ergative case
system, the causee retains its case marking. Thus the S of an intransitive
clause (marked by absolutive case) becomes O in the corresponding causative
(still marked by absolutive). In the causative of a transitive the causer takes
ergative inflection and the causee (original A) retains its ergative inflection
(Abitov et al. 1957: 126).
(b) In another ergative language, Trumai (isolate, Upper Xingu region,
Brazil) we encounter a similar situation. For example (Guirardello 1999):
(27) Alaweru-k hai-ts axos disi-ka
Name-erg 1sg-erg child+abs beat-caus
Alaweru made me beat the child
Note that the causer and the causee (original A) are both marked by an ergat-
ive enclitic (this has the form -ts after the 1sg pronoun and -(e/a)k elsewhere);
they are distinguished by their order in the clause, causer before causee.
Kabardian and Trumai each have two NPs in ergative case, in the causative
of a transitive. Abitov et al. (1957: 126) state that in Kabardian the ergative-
marked causer is in A function while the ergative-marked causee is now an
‘oblique agent’ (although the term is not further explained). Further invest-
igation is required to tell whether this also applies for Trumai.
Qiang (Tibeto-Burman family, China) provides a fascinating and unusual
example in which causer and causee, in the causative of a transitive, share
subject properties. In a plain transitive clause the verb bears a suffix which
marks person and number of A. The A NP can take ‘agentive marker’ -wu
but this is normally only included when there is marked constituent order
(e.g. OAV instead of the normal AOV), or to emphasize the agentivity of the
actor. In the causative of an intransitive the causer (A) does not take agentive
50 R.M.W. Dixon
marker -wu unless it is inanimate, e.g. ‘The wind (marked by -wu) knocked
me down.’ Consider now the causative of a transitive:
(28) qJ the:-wu pBitsB-e-ze zB-pC-XJ
1sg 3sg-ag cup-one-cl direction-buy-caus+1sg
I made him/her buy a cup
Here the pronominal suffix to the verb cross-references the causer; however,
the causer NP never, in the material collected, takes agentive marker -wu.
The causee (the original A) generally takes -wu. That is, causer retains one
subject property, cross-referencing on the verb, while causee takes over the
other subject property, marking by -wu (LaPolla 1996: 66, 112–13).2
Type (iii) – original A takes on O-marking, original O retains O-marking
There are a number of languages in which the original A (the causee) takes
on the marking of an O in a causative construction, while the original O
appears to retain its marking. That is, it seems on the surface that we have
two Os.
Further investigation shows that, for most of these languages, only one
of the arguments has the full properties of an O, e.g. it can be passivized
(this could be called the ‘full O’) while the other NP that is marked like an
O lacks these properties (it could be called a ‘second object’). It is gener-
ally the original A which is the full O while the original O has become
the second object (making these ostensively type (iii) languages perhaps a
special case of type (iv), where A becomes O and the original O moves out
of the core).
In Hebrew there are three syntactic possibilities for the causative of a
transitive: type (iv), original A becomes O and original O is marked by
locative; type (v), original O stays as is and original A is marked by dative;
and type (iii), both original A and original O are marked by the accusative
preposition et. An example of the third alternative is (Cole 1976: 99):
(29) hirkadB-ti [et ha-talmid-im] [et ha-rikud ha-xadaU]
dance+caus+past-1sg acc art-student-pl acc art-dance art-new
I made the students dance the new dance
2
It would be interesting to investigate a causative of a transitive where the causer is inanimate
(e.g. ‘The wind made me drop the cup’), to see whether in this instance -wu could go on the
causer; and indeed whether -wu would then be possible on both causer and causee. Randy
LaPolla has promised to check this possibility on his next field trip.
A typology of causatives 51
Here the causee NP, ‘the students’, can passivize and is thus identified as the
full O, while ‘the new dance’ cannot passivize and is identified as second
object.
Similar conclusions apply for morphological causatives in Tariana
(Aikhenvald, chapter 5 of this volume) and in Imbabura Quechua (Cole 1982:
136–7). The only report we have of the original O staying as full O and the
original A taking on O-marking but being a second object is Kozinsky and
Polinsky’s (1993) account of the bi-verbal causative in Dutch, which they
consider to constitute a single predicate.
Amharic (Semitic, Ethiopia) has an interesting set of possibilities. In this
language an NP in O function can take accusative marking only if it is
definite. As Amberber shows in chapter 9 of this volume, there are two basic
possibilities for the causative of a transitive clause:
(i) Original A becomes O; it must be definite, and takes accusative
marking. The original O can be omitted but it may be retained and is
then generally indefinite (it cannot take accusative marking). The
original A is plainly a full O, with the original O becoming second
object. Thus we can have, in a simple transitive clause, either ‘He
cut the meat (definite, accusative)’ or ‘He cut some meat (indefinite,
no marking)’. Only the second of these (that in which the O is
indefinite) is likely to be causativized.
(ii) If the original O is inherently definite (e.g. a proper noun) it stays as
is, in which case the original A (the causee) is generally omitted (but
its identity may be inferable from the context).
There are a number of languages where original A takes on O-marking and
original O retains O-marking and it is, on the information available, imposs-
ible to distinguish between the two objects. In Oromo (Cushitic branch of
Afroasiatic family, Ethiopia; Owens 1985: 172–81), passive can apply to the
O NP in a plain transitive or in the causative of an intransitive but to neither
of the O-marked NPs in the causative of a transitive. In Yagua (Peru; Payne
and Payne 1990: 284–7), either or both of the O-marked arguments can
be specific and referred to by a clitic; there seems to be no criterial way of
deciding between them. In Gamo (Omotic, Ethiopia; Eva 1990: 395) the two
O-marked NPs can occur in either order and no criteria are given for distin-
guishing between them. Martin (chapter 12 of this book) describes how in the
causative of a transitive clause in Creek, both original A and original O bear
the non-subject marker -n. (Comrie 1975: 14–17 and Kozinsky and Polinsky
52 R.M.W. Dixon
1993: 181 provide further information on languages that have ‘two objects’ in
the causative of a transitive clause.)
The causative of a transitive is a kind of ditransitive clause. In many
languages it has essentially the same syntax as a non-causative ditransitive
(involving a verb like ‘give’ or ‘show’ or ‘tell’). It is relevant to enquire
whether languages with ‘two objects’ in the causative of a transitive also
have ‘two objects’ in a regular ditransitive, that is, with both ‘gift’ and ‘re-
cipient’ marked as object for a verb of giving, etc. It appears that this does
apply in the case of Yagua, but not for most of the other languages surveyed
here. There is different marking for object and indirect object of an underived
ditransitive verb in Hebrew, Imbabura Quechua, Amharic, Oromo and Gamo
(information is lacking on the marking in simple ditransitive clauses in Creek).
It appears that in these languages ‘double object’ is a characteristic just of the
causative-of-a-transitive construction.
Type (iv) – original A becomes new O, original O moves out of the core
In this variety of morphological causative of a transitive verb each of the
arguments shifts its function, the original A (the causee) taking on O function
within the causative construction and the original O moving out of the core
into a peripheral function.
In Javanese, core syntactic relations are shown by the constituent order
AVO, SV (very like English). In a ditransitive clause the indirect object (e.g.
the recipient in an activity of giving) is marked by the dative preposition
marang. Example (30) shows a simple transitive clause and (31) its causative
counterpart, which has the structure of a normal ditransitive, with original A
becoming O (shown by its positioning immediately after the verb) and ori-
ginal O now taking dative preposition marang (Suhandano 1994: 67).
(30) asu-ne nguyak Bambang
dog-def chase Name
The dog chased Bambang
(31) Sri nguyak-ake asu-ne marang Bambang
name chase-caus dog-def dat Name
Sri got the dog to chase Bambang
There is a similar causative mechanism, also involving constituent order,
in Tolai, another Austronesian language (Papua New Guinea; Mosel 1984:
154–5).
Swahili (Bantu, East Africa) has similar syntax. Here the fact that the original
A takes on O function in the causative construction is shown by its being
A typology of causatives 53
cross-referenced by O pronominals in the verb, while the original O loses its
cross-referencing (Vitale 1981: 155–6). Jarawara (Arawá family, Brazil) is like
Swahili in having A and O arguments expressed by bound pronominals within
the predicate. It has a general postposition jaa which marks any non-core
argument. In the causative of a transitive the original A is now cross-referenced
as O while the original O loses its cross-referencing and is marked by jaa
(see Dixon and Aikhenvald 1997: 83, and Dixon and Vogel, forthcoming).
Kammu (Austroasiatic, Laos; Svantesson 1983: 103–5) is another language
with this kind of causative construction. Here the original O is often omitted
but can be included for some verbs, marked by the instrumental preposition.
Compare the plain transitive in (32) with its causative counterpart in (33).
(32) [kqFn t]Gk] màh któD
child Name eat egg
T]Gk’s children eat eggs
(33) t]Gk pt-màh [kqFn tèe] [y\H któD]
Name caus-eat child refl inst egg
T]Gk gave his children eggs to eat (lit. T]Gk made his children eat eggs)
Interestingly, ‘give’ is expressed in Kammu as the causative of ‘have’, with
the recipient being in O function and the gift marked by the instrumental
preposition. Compare (32–3) with:
(34) nàa Làh tráak
she have buffalo
She has a buffalo
(35) k•B pt-Làh nàa [y\H tráak]
he cause-have she inst buffalo
He gave her a buffalo
Babungo (Grassfields Bantu, Cameroon; Schaub 1985: 211) is like Kammu
in that the original O is generally omitted but can be included as an optional
adverbial, marked by preposition nO ‘with’. Baker (1988: 164–6, quoting
Gibson 1980 and Trithart 1977) mentions Chamorro (Austronesian) and some
dialects of Chichewa (Bantu) as also being of type (iv). And, as mentioned
under type (iii), those languages in which original A becomes full O and the
original O, which still retains object-marking, is syntactically a ‘second object’
are also essentially of this type. See, in addition, the discussion of Awa Pit
in §3.3.
54 R.M.W. Dixon
Type (v) – original O stays as O, original A moves out of the core
There are two subtypes here: (a) where the original A goes into the first
empty slot on a hierarchy of clausal functions; (b) where the original A goes
into a fixed function. The first has been made much of in the literature but is
in fact rather rare.
(a) Marking of original A is motivated by a hierarchy. In an important and
pioneering paper, Comrie (1975) brought into play a hierarchy that had already
been suggested to explain the syntax of relative clauses (in work published as
Keenan and Comrie 1977):
(36) Comrie’s hierarchy
subject – direct object – indirect object – oblique – genitive – object of
comparison
He suggested that in one group of languages the causee goes into the first
available slot in the hierarchy. For example, in French we get causatives of
intransitive, transitive and ditransitive clauses as:
(37) je ferai courir Jean
1sg+nom make+fut+1sg run+inf Name
I shall make Jean run
(38) je ferai manger les gâteaux à Jean
1sg+nom make+fut+1sg eat+inf the cakes prep Name
I shall make Jean eat the cakes
(39) je ferai écrire une lettre au directeur
1sg+nom make+fut+1sg write+inf a letter prep+art headmaster
par Jean
prep Name
I shall make Jean write a letter to the headmaster
The causee, ‘Jean’, fills the O slot in (37). In (38) the O slot is already filled
and it goes into the indirect object slot, marked by preposition à ‘to’. In (39)
both O and indirect object slots are filled so the causee goes into an oblique
slot, marked by preposition par ‘by’.
Comrie refers to this as the ‘paradigm case’ (1975: 8; 1976: 263–4) or ‘the
norm’ (1989: 174–83) or ‘a general tendency’ (1985: 342). These labels have
been repeated by other writers, e.g. Palmer (1994: 218) uses ‘paradigm case’.
In fact this pattern is rather rare. It is found in Western Romance languages
such as French and Italian. Comrie quotes Turkish as a further example, but
the literature on this language gives mixed information. For instance, Kornfilt
(1997: 331–2) states that the causee goes into dative case in the causative of
A typology of causatives 55
both simple transitive and ditransitive clauses (the causative of a ditransitive
then having two dative NPs). There may be a few other languages of type (v-a)
but they are greatly outnumbered by those of type (v-b). When we also take
into account types (i–iv), it will be seen that there is no justification for attach-
ing special importance to the pattern illustrated for French in (37–9).
(b) Original A is assigned a fixed non-core function (irrespective of whether
the underlying clause is simple transitive or ditransitive). The possibilities
here include:
(i) dative. This is the mechanism in Sanuma (Yanomami family,
Brazil/Venezuela; Borgman 1990: 47–51), Apalai (Carib family,
Brazil; Koehn and Koehn 1986: 49–51), Kamaiurá (Tupí-Guaraní
branch of Tupí family, Brazil; Seki, forthcoming), Turkish (Kornfilt
1997: 331–2) and Japanese. One of the causative strategies in Hebrew
involves original A being marked by dative preposition.
Comrie (1976: 272) mentions this as an alternative strategy in
French. That is, most native speakers can say Je ferai écrire à Jean
une lettre au directeur as an alternative to (39), although he states
that the preferred construction type, acceptable to all speakers, is
that shown in (39).
We find a variant of this pattern in Sinhalese (Indo-European)
where the original A of a simple transitive or ditransitive verb goes
into dative case, but this must be followed by the postposition kimla
(Gair 1970: 68–70). (We could regard this as a language of type (i),
with dative-plus-kimla constituting ‘special marking’ of original A.)
All of these languages allow a clause to include two dative NPs –
the original dative of the ditransitive verb, plus the original O.
(ii) instrumental. Examples here include Hungarian (Kenesei, Vago
and Fenyvesi 1998: 186–8), Kannada (Sridhar 1990: 217–19), Punjabi
(Bhatia 1993: 238–40) and Marathi (Pandharipande 1997: 401–3).
(iii) locative. For example, in Daghestanian languages (Hewitt 1983).
(iv) allative. For example, in West Greenlandic Eskimo (Fortescue
1984: 268–9).
(v) adessive. For example, the morphological causative in Finnish.
Interestingly, the original A of the periphrastic causative in Finnish
takes the genitive suffix (Sulkala and Karjalainen 1992: 294–6).
(vi) poss:essive. Comrie (chapter 11 in this volume) states that in Tsez
(North-east Caucasian) the original A is marked with the poss:essive
case suffix, and this applies whether A was originally marked by
56 R.M.W. Dixon
lative case (with verbs like ‘see’ and ‘find’) or by ergative case (with
other verbs).
3.3 Of ditransitives
The surface syntactic constraints of a language may limit the syntactic – and
also semantic – possibilities for causative constructions. It was mentioned in
§3.1 that, in the causative of an intransitive, Japanese allows the original S
to be marked by either dative or accusative postposition, indicating that the
causee performed the action willingly (dative) or that the causer ignored
the causee’s intentions (accusative). However, Japanese does not allow two
accusative-marked arguments in a clause. Thus, in the causative of a transit-
ive (including ditransitive), since there is already an O NP, the original A (the
causee) must take dative marking. The syntactic alternation for intransitives
is not available for transitives, and with it is lost the possibility of a semantic
alternation.
Syntactic constraints are especially evident when we look in detail at causat-
ives of ditransitive clauses, which in underlying form have A, O and indirect
object (generally marked by dative case or adposition). As noted under (v-b)
in §3.2, there are some languages which allow two dative NPs (rather more,
in fact, than allow two accusative NPs), e.g. Japanese, Turkish, Kamaiurá.
But other languages do not permit two dative NPs in a single clause. There
are a number of different ways of dealing with this situation.
In Evenki (Tungusic, north Russia; Nedjalkov 1997: 231–2), the original A
in the causative of a simple transitive has two possible markings: definite
accusative or dative (the difference in meaning is not given in the source
grammar). In the causative of a ditransitive the original A can only be definite
accusative, not dative. (Interestingly, this languages allows two accusative
NPs in a clause, but not two dative NPs.)
Causatives of transitives in Georgian are basically of type (v-b) from §3.2,
where the original O stays as is, and the original A goes into dative case. But
Georgian does not allow two dative NPs in a clause and in the causative of a
ditransitive, which already has a dative NP, what we get is the original A
becoming the new dative and the old dative moving down to become an
oblique constituent, marked by the postposition -t' ‘for’. Example (40) shows
a simple ditransitive clause and (41) its causative correspondent (Sumbatova
1993: 257):
(40) dena-d kalaxwem mare-s diar
girl-erg give+aorist man-dat bread+nom
The girl gave bread to the man
A typology of causatives 57
(41) eWe-m kalaxawodnune dena-s diar mare-U-t'
he-erg give+caus+aorist girl-dat bread+nom man-gen-for
He made the girl give bread to the man
Other languages have varying ways of responding to the prohibition on
two dative NPs in a clause, when attempting to create the causative of a
ditransitive. In Hixkaryana (Carib family, Brazil) both causee (original A)
and original indirect object should take dative postposition wya; but only one
wya phrase can occur in a clause so that (42a) is ambiguous. In order to
disambiguate it one could add a second clause with the same verb ‘give’, but
not in causative form, as in (42b):
(42) (a) kuraha yImpoye Waraka rowya
bow 3sgA+caus+give+3sgO Name 1sg+dat
either (i) Waraka made me give a bow (to someone)
or (ii) Waraka made (someone) give a bow to me
(b) wImye [Kaywerye wya]
1sgA+give+3sgO Name dat
I gave (the bow) to Kaywerye
Taken together, the two clauses of (42) have an unambiguous meaning
‘Waraka made me give the bow to Kaywerye’ (Derbyshire 1985: 89; cf.
1979: 135). Sonrai behaves in a similar way (Shopen and Konaré 1970).
In Basque the prohibition on a clause including two dative NPs means that
one simply cannot form a morphological causative of a ditransitive. In this
language the morphological causative applies only to intransitive and to
many simple transitive clauses (those with an inanimate O). But there is also
a periphrastic causative which applies to all types of clauses, including ditrans-
itives (Saltarelli 1988: 220–1). Similar remarks apply for Dulong/Rawang, as
described by LaPolla in chapter 8 below.
In Abaza (North-west Caucasian) a predicate can cross-reference up to four
arguments. In the morphological causative of a ditransitive such as ‘he couldn’t
make them give it back to her’, all of causer (A, ‘he’), causee (original A,
‘them’), original O (‘it’) and original indirect object (‘her’) can be shown by
pronominal prefixes to the verb (W.S. Allen 1956: 139; Dixon 1982: 161). How-
ever, Abkhaz (another dialect of the same language) avoids four-argument
verbs and as a result causatives of ditransitives can only be achieved by using
a periphrastic construction (Hewitt 1979: 171).
A fascinating example of a causative of a ditransitive comes from Awa Pit
(Barbacoan family, Colombia and Ecuador; Curnow 1997: 159–64). In the
causative of a simple transitive the original A becomes O and the original O
58 R.M.W. Dixon
becomes an indirect (or ‘second’) object. But a clause in Awa Pit may not
include two Os, or two indirect objects. For the causative of a ditransitive, the
original indirect object (the gift, with a verb of giving) remains as is, which
leaves the original A and original O competing for the one remaining func-
tional slot, O, in the causative construction. Either can fill it, with the other
argument remaining unexpressed. Thus:
(43) original A original O original indirect object
either causer (A) O unexpressed indirect object
or causer (A) unexpressed O indirect object
but not *causer (A) *O *ind. object *unexpressed
The possibility which is not allowed is that shown in the final row, where the
original A becomes new O, and original O becomes new indirect object (as in
the causative of a simple transitive) with the original indirect object being left
unexpressed.
As a result, the causative of a ditransitive verb in Awa Pit is ambiguous;
the sole O argument may refer to the original A or to the original O, as in:
(44) na=na Demetrio=ta pala kwin-nin-ta-w
1sgA=top Name=acc plantain give=caus=past-1st
either (i) I made Demetrio (original A) give [someone, original O]
a plantain (original indirect object)
or (ii) I made [someone, original A] give Demetrio (original O)
a plantain (original indirect object)
A causative such as (44) could only be disambiguated in terms of the textual
context in which it occurs.
There is one syntactic possibility which might be expected but has not yet
been encountered. Note that we have a ditransitive version of type (iv) from
§3.2, with:
(45) underlying clause A O dative
causative construction causer: A O dative dative
And we have a variety of type (v) found in Georgian (see (40–1)):
(46) underlying clause A O dative
causative construction causer: A O dative oblique marking
The one possibility which is not currently attested is a combination of these,
an extension of type (iv) whereby in a causative construction each argument
shifts one place down on a hierarchy:
A typology of causatives 59
(47) underlying clause A O dative
causative construction causer: A O dative oblique marking
Note that the data on causatives of ditransitives has many gaps; a high
proportion of grammars simply do not mention this topic. When more docu-
mentation becomes available, I would predict that a language showing schema
(47) will be found.
3.4 Double causatives
Some of the varieties of causative mechanisms carry the possibility of being
applied twice (although double application may occur only rather occasion-
ally in the daily use of language). This possibility is plainly not available for
lexical causatives (§2.4) or for the mechanism which involves exchanging
auxiliaries (§2.5) and it is not reported for the ‘two verbs in one predicate’
construction (§2.2).
One would expect periphrastic causatives to always carry the possibility of
being applied iteratively, e.g. English The king made the general make the
captain make the soldiers clean out his goldfish bowl. I know of no counter-
examples to this (although this is not to imply that a detailed search might not
uncover some). In fact, whether or not it can be iterated may be one criterion
for deciding whether a causative verb enters into a simple predicate or a dual
predicate construction type. In Lahu (Tibeto-Burman), for instance, a causat-
ive verb such as cp ‘make’ appears to make up a single predicate with the
lexical verb (like faire in French, see §2.2). This is confirmed by the fact that
a double causative (e.g. ‘God made the devil spirit make the boy kick the
dog’) cannot be achieved by using cp twice within the same surface clause.
‘Rather, one must embed the cp clause within a higher causative-purpose
clause’ (Matisoff 1973: 436).
Turning now to morphological causatives (§2.1), we find that some lan-
guages (e.g. Jarawara) only allow the causative process to apply once per
verb, whereas others may have it apply twice. Double application sometimes
indicates a single causative with a special meaning, e.g. ‘force to do’ in
Swahili, illustrated in (60) below, and intensive meaning in Oromo (Dubinsky,
Lloret and Newman 1988). Further examples are quoted in Kulikov (1993:
128–30).
In some languages two morphological causative mechanisms, that have
rather different form, can be applied to a single verb. In Nivkh some verbs
are causativized by replacing their initial stop or affricate by a corresponding
fricative and/or liquid, e.g.
60 R.M.W. Dixon
(48) t'o- ‘bend’ (intransitive) zo- ‘bend’ (transitive)
pBkz- ‘get lost’ (intransitive) vBkz- ‘lose’ (transitive)
th
a- ‘fry’ (intransitive) rUa- ‘fry’ (transitive)
The second mechanism involves a suffix -(g)u- being added to the verb,
e.g. nok- ‘be narrow’, nok-u- ‘make narrow’. There is also a class of verbs
that combines the two changes to form a single causative: they include t'oz-
‘go out (e.g. fire)’, zoz-u- ‘put (e.g. fire) out’.
Some verbs in Nivkh can form a causative in either of two ways; we then
find that initial consonant mutation (with or without an accompanying suffix)
indicates direct causation, e.g. pol- ‘fall’, vol-u- ‘make fall (e.g. knock down)’;
and the use of a suffix (with no mutation) indicates indirect causation, e.g.
pol-gu ‘make fall (e.g. by not supporting)’. Both causatives may apply to a
single root. Nedjalkov, Otaina and XolodoviQ (1995: 67) present this as a
symmetrical array:
(49) t'oz- direct causation zoz-u
‘go out (e.g. fire)’ ‘put out’
indirect causation indirect causation
t'oz-gu- direct causation zoz-u-gu-
‘let (something ‘make (someone) put
go out)’ (something) out’
In many languages the same causative process can be applied twice, yield-
ing a causative of a causative. Thus, in Capanawa (Pano family, Peru; Payne
1990: 229) we can get:
(50) underlying root (intransitive) -mapet- ‘ascend’
causative (transitive) -mapet-ma- ‘bring [it] up (i.e. make
ascend)’
double causative (ditransitive) -mapet-ma-ma- ‘make/allow [someone] to
bring [it] up’
Similar sequences of two causative affixes added to an intransitive verb are
reported for a number of languages. These include two tokens of the same
causative suffix in Hungarian and Turkish, and two tokens of the same prefix
in Kabardian (Abitov et al. 1957: 127) and in Karbi (Tibeto-Burman, Assam;
Jeyapaul 1987: 111).
In Apalai, different suffixes are used for the causative of an intransitive and
of a transitive verb. Some intransitive verbs take -ma- (e.g. nyh-ma- ‘make
b
c
b
c
fffffg
fffffg
A typology of causatives 61
sleep’) while others take -nohpo- (e.g. kuma-nohpo- ‘make rise’). A transit-
ive verb is causativized by adding -po (e.g. aro-po- ‘make [someone] take
[something]’). An intransitive and a transitive causativizer can be applied
in sequence. For example (Koehn and Koehn 1986: 51):
(51) otuh- ‘eat’ (intransitive)
otuh-ma- ‘feed [someone], i.e. make [someone] eat’ (transitive)
otuh-ma-po- ‘get [someone] to feed [someone]’ (ditransitive)
It is also possible to apply the two intransitive causative suffixes in sequence.
This produces a single causative but with an indirect meaning, e.g.
(52) otuh-ma-nohpo- ‘oversee [someone] eating’ (transitive)
I have not been able to find a reliable textual (as opposed to elicited) example
of a causative affix being added twice to a transitive verb. This relates partly
to the fact that many languages restrict morphological causative processes to
intransitive verbs, and quite a few of the remainder allow these processes to
apply only sparingly to transitive verbs. Note that in Hungarian it may be
theoretically possible to apply the causative suffix twice to a transitive verb
but the result is judged infelicitous by native speakers; they prefer to use a
morphological causative plus a periphrastic causative (Edith Moravcsik, p.c.).
4 Semantics
Quite a few languages have two or more causative constructions, involving
either different formal mechanisms or different marking of the causee (ori-
ginal S or A). There is always a semantic difference and it may involve one
or more of nine semantic parameters, set out below.
If a language has just one causative mechanism, then this generally has a
wide semantic range, covering all values of most of the parameters. But it is
unlikely to cover all values of all parameters. Many linguists, when writing
the grammar of a language, simply state that there is a causative construction,
describing the formal marking and something of the syntax. This is not enough
– the meaning must be discussed as well. This is done for Motuna by Onishi
(in chapter 4 of this volume) when he specifies ‘the Causer acting directly
and achieving the result intentionally’, and ‘the Causee is not in control of the
state or activity, and is affected by the result of the whole event’. See also the
account of the causative in Dulong/Rawang by LaPolla (chapter 8) and Rice’s
comparison of the meanings of morphological causatives across various
Athapaskan languages (chapter 6).
62 R.M.W. Dixon
There can be further semantic specifications that are not known to enter
into any of the contrasts between alternative mechanisms – discussed below
– but may need to be stated in the semantic characterization of the single
causative in some languages. For instance, in Nivkh a causer must be anim-
ate. One cannot, as a rule, say something like ‘The mist made us stay in the
village’, using a causative construction. This has to be expressed in another
way, e.g. ‘We stayed in the village because of the mist’ (Nedjalkov, Otaina
and XolodoviQ 1995: 76).
The nine semantic parameters are:
(a) Relating to the verb
1. State/action. Does a causative mechanism apply only to a verb de-
scribing a state, or also to a verb describing an action?
2. Transitivity. Does it apply only to intransitive verbs, or to both
intransitive and simple transitive verbs, or to all types of verbs –
intransitive, simple transitive and also ditransitive? (Note that
there are no causatives that apply only to transitives and not to
intransitives. However, the form of a causative mechanism may vary
depending on whether it applies to an intransitive or to a transitive
verb, as in Carib languages such as Apalai – illustrated in (51) above
– and Hixkaryana (Derbyshire 1979: 134–5).)
(b) Relating to the causee (original S or A)
3. Control. Is the causee lacking control of the activity (e.g. if inanim-
ate, or a young child) or normally having control?
4. Volition. Does the causee do it willingly (‘let’) or unwillingly
(‘make’)?
5. Affectedness. Is the causee only partially affected by the activity,
or completely affected?
(c) Relating to causer (in A function in the causative construction)
6. Directness. Does the causer act directly or indirectly?
7. Intention. Does the causer achieve the result accidentally or
intentionally?
8. Naturalness. Does it happen fairly naturally (the causer just initiat-
ing a natural process) or is the result achieved only with effort
(perhaps, with violence)?
9. Involvement. Is the causer also involved in the activity (in addition
to the causee) or not involved?
A typology of causatives 63
For most of the parameters there are many examples available of languages
with two causative mechanisms that are distinguished by the parameter; only
a selection are given here. Those with the slimmest attestation are 9, Involve-
ment (three instances known) and 5, Affectedness (just one). I quote all
known examples for these.
The parameters are not fully independent. If state is chosen under 1 then
parameter 2 must be intransitive. Parameter 4, Volition, can only be applied
if control is chosen under 3. Parameter 8, Naturalness, is only likely to apply
if directly is chosen under 6. It can sometimes be difficult to distinguish
between 3, Control, and 4, Volition on the part of the causee, and parameter 8,
relating to whether the causer had to act with effort or achieved the result
naturally. In some languages a causative contrast may relate primarily to
Control, in another language to Naturalness, but in a third language it may
effectively combine these two parameters.
I now discuss and exemplify the nine parameters, in turn.
1. State/action. Whether a causative mechanism applies only to state verbs or
also to action verbs.
In Bahasa Indonesian and Malay (Tampubolon 1983: 45) the causative
suffix -kan applies only to state and process verbs, e.g. we can get melebar-
kan ‘make wide’ and menggembira-kan ‘make pleased’. For action verbs the
only kind of causative is periphrastic, involving a verb like suruh ‘order’,
buat or bikin ‘make’.
Amberber (chapter 9 of this volume) reports that in Amharic the shorter
causative prefix, a-, attaches only to verbs of state and change of state, e.g.
‘stand’, ‘melt’ (but not ‘dance’ or ‘laugh’). However, the longer causative
prefix, as-, occurs with all kinds of verbs. Baker (1996: 348–52) reports a
similar restriction on the causative suffix in Mohawk (Iroquoian) – it may
only apply to stative verbs.
2. Transitivity. Whether a causative mechanism applies only to intransitive
verbs, or to both intransitive and simple transitive verbs, or to all types of
verbs – intransitive, simple transitive and also ditransitive.
In many languages a causative mechanism applies only to intransitive
verbs. This is so for Australian languages such as Kayardild (Evans 1995:
279–80), Uradhi (Crowley 1983: 376) and Yidiny (Dixon 1977: 311–19) and
also for Urubu-Kaapor (Tupí-Guaraní branch of Tupí family, Brazil; Kakumasu
1986: 341). In these languages there is no way of forming an abstract causat-
ive of a transitive verb (e.g. ‘I made John cook the dinner’). One simply has
64 R.M.W. Dixon
to specify what was done to make the causee act (e.g. ‘I told John to cook the
dinner’).
In other languages the morphological causative applies only to intransit-
ives but there is also a periphrastic causative which may be used with all
verbs; it is the only mechanism available for transitives. Languages of this
kind include a number from the Austronesian family, including Maori
(New Zealand; Bauer 1993: 409–12), Ambae (Vanuatu; Catriona Hyslop,
p.c.) and Balinese (Wayan Pastika, p.c.), and a number from the Mayan
family such as K'iche' (Campbell, chapter 7 of this volume) and Tzotzil
(Stuart Robinson, p.c.). Other languages are mentioned by Nedyalkov and
Silnitsky (1973: 7).
Onishi (chapter 4 of this volume) states that in Motuna a morphological
causative can be formed on any plain intransitive (whether of type Sa or type
So) and on an extended intransitive (or ‘middle’; that is an intransitive with
an obligatory peripheral argument) and on just a couple of transitive verbs.
There are a number of ambitransitive verbs in Motuna, and a causative is
always based on the intransitive sense. In Fijian almost all verbs are ambi-
transitive, some of type S = A and others of type S = O. For many syntactic
purposes it is most appropriate to take the transitive form as basic; how-
ever, causatives apply only to the intransitive sense of an ambitransitive verb
(Dixon 1988: 45–51, 185–9).
There are a number of languages where a morphological causative applies
freely to all intransitive verbs but only rather rarely to transitives and then to
just a few verbs. A similar set of verbs is involved, in different languages. For
Yimas, Foley (1991: 292) quotes ‘weave’ and ‘eat’. For Tariana (chapter 5 of
this volume), Aikhenvald quotes a number of verbs to do with ritual activity,
plus ‘drink’. In chapter 4 Onishi mentions two transitive verbs that form a
morphological causative in Motuna, ‘eat (munchable food)’ and ‘eat (soft
food) / drink’. In Jarawara it appears that the only transitive verbs to readily
accept the causative prefix na- are ‘drink’ and ‘eat’. Nedyalkov and Silnitsky
(1973: 16) conclude from their typological survey that if only a few transitive
verbs form morphological causatives these are likely to include ‘verbs denot-
ing abstract action’, such as ‘see/show’, ‘remember/remind’ and ‘understand/
explain’, plus ‘drink’ and ‘eat’ (their example languages include Chukchee,
Arabic, Bats, Hausa, Armenian and Kurdish).
Rice (chapter 6 of this volume) surveys the applicability of the causative
affix across languages of the Athapaskan family. In all languages it can be
used on an intransitive verb with a ‘patientive subject’. In some languages
it can be used with all intransitives. Only in Koyukun can it be freely used
with transitives. For other languages, just a few transitive verbs take the
A typology of causatives 65
morphological causative; the examples which Rice quotes for Ahtna, Carrier
and Navajo are ‘eat’ and ‘drink’.
There is here a clear generalization – if a morphological causative is used
with only a few transitive verbs, these are likely to include ‘drink’ and ‘eat’.
It seems that drinking and eating are the transitive activities which people are
most likely to make other people do, on every continent.
As mentioned in §3.3, we find languages where a morphological causative
can apply to intransitive and simple transitive verbs, but not to ditransitives.
Sonrai, Basque, Dulong/Rawang and Abkhaz are of this type.
3. Control. Whether the causee lacks control or has control of the activity.
Creek (Martin 1991 and chapter 12 in this volume) has two morphological
mechanisms. Roughly: (i) suffix -ic is used if the causee lacks control or is
unwilling (e.g ‘feed the baby’); (ii) suffix -ipa followed by -ic is used if the
causee has control (e.g. ‘make the baby eat’), or if the causee is athematic
(e.g. ‘make it rain’). (Martin suggests that this difference between causatives
basically relates to the separability of events.)
This parameter underlies the meaning of the morphological causative in
a number of languages. For example, in Marathi (Pandharipande 1997: 406)
and in Japanese and Korean (Shibatani 1976a: 33) the causee must have
control; as a result, inanimate causees are not permitted.
4. Volition. Whether the causee does it willingly (‘let’) or unwillingly (‘make’).
Japanese has intransitive/transitive verb pairs as lexical causatives (e.g.
‘be damaged’/‘damage’, ‘be sold’/‘sell’, ‘become fat’/‘fatten’ – see Shibatani
1990: 236). These imply that the causee lacks control; indeed, with most
lexical causatives in Japanese the causee is inanimate. Japanese also has a
morphological causative with suffix -(s)ase; this implies that the causee has
control. With intransitives there are two syntactic possibilities, indicating a
difference in the causee’s volition. If the original S takes accusative postposition
o in the causative construction it implies that the intentions of the causee are
ignored by the causer, as in (54); if the original S takes dative postposition ni
this implies that the causee is willing, as in (55). (See Shibatani 1990: 309;
Tonoike 1978; Tsujimura 1996: 247–9.)
(53) Taroo ga konsaato e it-ta
Name nom concert to go-past
Taroo went to a concert
(54) Ryooshin ga Taroo o konsaato e ik-ase-ta
parents nom Name acc concert to go-cause-past
[His] parents made Taroo go to a concert
66 R.M.W. Dixon
(55) Ryooshin ga Taroo ni konsaato e ik-ase-ta
parents nom Name dat concert to go-cause-past
[His] parents let Taroo go to a concert
We mentioned in §3.2 that Japanese may not have two accusative-marked
NPs in a clause; as a result, in the causative of a transitive the original A can
only have dative marking (since there is already an accusative NP). Thus, the
volitional contrast is only available for the causative of an intransitive.
Bolivian Quechua (Cole 1983: 118) shows a similar contrast, but this time
only with transitive verbs. Here the morphological causative is marked by
verbal suffix -Pi. In the causative of an intransitive the original S must become
O, marked by the accusative postposition -ta. However, in the causative of
a transitive the original A can be marked with accusative, showing that the
causee is unwilling, as in (56), or with instrumental, -wan, showing that the
causee is willing, as in (57).
(56) nuqa Fan-ta rumi-ta apa-Qi-ni
1sgA Juan-acc rock-acc carry-caus-1sgA
I made Juan carry the rock
(57) nuqa Fan-wan rumi-ta apa-Qi-ni
1sgA Juan-inst rock-acc carry-caus-1sgA
I had Juan carry the rock (where Juan submits voluntarily to the causer’s
wishes)
In Swahili (Vitale 1981: 156–7) there is a causative suffix, -isha/-esha, to
the verb; and also a periphrastic apparatus for causation. Where these con-
trast, the suffix indicates that the causee acts willingly and the periphrastic
construction indicates that the causee acts unwillingly (is forced to do it).
Thus:
(58) mwalimu hu-wa-som-esha wanafunzi kurani
teacher hab-3pl-study-cause students Koran
The teacher teaches the students the Koran (they want to study it)
(59) mwalimu hu-wa-lazimisha wanafunzi wa-som-e kurani
teacher hab-3pl-force students 3pl-study-subj Koran
The teacher forces the students to study the Koran (they do not want to
study it)
Interestingly, an alternative to the periphrastic construction is doubling the
causative suffix on the verb. Sentence (60) has the same meaning as (59):
(60) mwalimu hu-wa-som-es(h)-esha wanafunzi kurani
hab-3pl-study-cause-cause
A typology of causatives 67
Tangkhul Naga (Tibeto-Burman, India; Arokianathan 1987: 65–6) is like
Swahili in that there is a morphological causative, with prefix ci-, indicating
that the causee acted willingly, as in:
(61) cannB merili ci-tuDtBlBy
John Mary caus-get down
John got Mary to get down
A second causative, indicating that the causee acted unwillingly, involves
causative -nmsmk-, which appears to be compounded to the lexical verb, as in:
(62) i-nB a-li conrBm ci khuy-DBsBk-sá-y
1sg-nom 3sg-acc luggage that take-caus-evid-non.fut
I made him/her take that luggage
5. Affectedness. Whether the causee is only partially affected or completely
affected by the activity.
This parameter is attested just for Tariana. The longer causative suffix
-i+ta may be used to indicate that the causee was completely affected (e.g.
‘you made my house fall down completely’), contrasting with the shorter
causative suffix -i, which can indicate that the causee was only partially
affected (e.g. ‘they made some woodchips fall’). Compare (32) and (33) in
chapter 5 below, by Aikhenvald.
6. Directness. Whether the causer acts directly or indirectly.
Hindi (Kachru 1976, Saksena 1982) has two causative suffixes. Both can
be used with all kinds of verbs, implying a causee having control and the
causer acting intentionally. They differ in terms of directness – suffix -a
indicates that the causer acts directly and -va that they act indirectly. The
intransitive clause in (63) is the basis for the direct causative in (64), where
the labourers did the job themselves, and for the indirect causative in (65),
where the contractor achieved the task indirectly (through ‘the labourers’,
who can be included in the clause, marked by instrumental case).
(63) MBkan bBna
house was.made
The house got built
(64) MBzduuro ne mBkan bBnaya
labourers erg house was.made+ caus1
The labourers built the house
(65) Thekedar ne (mBzduuro se) mBkan bBnvaya
contractor erg labourers inst house was.made+ caus2
The contractor got the house built (by the labourers)
68 R.M.W. Dixon
A similar distinction between direct and indirect causatives is found in many
other languages of the region, for example Gojri (Indo-European; Sharma
1982: 153–4). Masica (1976) surveys direct and indirect causatives in the
South Asian linguistic area.
Jinghpaw (Tibeto-Burman, Burma; Maran and Clifton 1976) has a causat-
ive prefix, sha-, and a causative suffix, -shangun. They are often interchange-
able, but contrast with some verbs. If a causative action is accidental only the
suffix can be used. If it is intentional then the prefix will be preferred if the
causer acts directly while the suffix is preferred if they act indirectly. For an
event ‘X killed Y’ imagine the following three scenarios:
(a) X decapitated Y (direct) – prefix preferred.
(b) X saw Y unconscious in water and didn’t rescue them (indirect) –
suffix preferred.
(c) X ordered someone to decapitate Y (indirect) – suffix preferred.
In §3.4 we mentioned Nivkh, where consonantal mutation (sometimes also
accompanied by a suffix) can mark direct causation, and a verbal affix (with
no mutation) may be used for indirect causation. Schema (49) illustrates how
these can be combined. Apalai was illustrated in (51–2); here a single causat-
ive suffix to an intransitive verb indicates direct causation, while a sequence
of two suffixes is used for indirect causation.
In Telugu (Dravidian) there are two varieties of causative for an intrans-
itive verb: (i) the original S argument is placed in accusative case; or (ii) it is
marked by the postposition ceeta, which is used to mark the original A in the
causative of a transitive, described under type (i) in §3.2. Alternative (i) is
used to describe direct causation such as ‘the nurse walked the child (e.g. by
holding its hands)’ while (ii) is used for indirect causation, such as ‘the nurse
got the child to walk (e.g. by telling it to do so)’. Interestingly, verbs like
‘cry’ and ‘laugh’ only accept alternative (i) (Bh. Krishnamurti, p.c.).
Foley (1991: 291) describes causative serial verb constructions in Yimas.
There are two verbs which may take on a causative meaning when used in
such a construction, tar- ~ tal- ‘hold’ and tmi- ‘say’. The alternative ‘tar- ~
tal- marks a direct causative, the causing of an event by physically manip-
ulating an object, while tmi- is used for an indirect causative in which the
event is brought about through speech, by verbal commands or requests’.
Thus:
(66) na-Da-tar-kwalca-t
3sgA-1sgO-caus1-rise-pfv
She woke me up (directly, e.g. by shaking me)
A typology of causatives 69
(67) na-Da-tmi-kwalca-t
3sgA-1sgO-caus2-rise-pfv
She woke me up (indirectly, e.g. by calling me)
The Directness parameter may also be shown by alternation of case mark-
ing. In the causative of an intransitive, Hungarian normally puts the original
S into accusative case, but some verbs allow either accusative or instru-
mental. The accusative alternative marks direct causation, where the causer
personally directs the activity, while instrumental indicates indirect causation
(Hetzron 1976: 394). Under (b) in §3.1 we contrasted the direct causative
‘The nurse walked him (accusative) for an hour every day’ with the indirect
causative ‘The doctor had him (instrumental) walk for an hour each day (by
telling him to do so)’.
In Buru (Austronesian, Indonesia; Grimes 1991: 211) a prefix pe- is used
to indicate direct causation, and a periphrastic verb, puna, for indirect causa-
tion, where the causer ‘brought about a situation that caused the resulting
action or state’. Compare:
(68) da pe-gosa ringe
3sgA caus1-be.good 3sgO
He healed her (directly, with spiritual power)
(69) da puna ringe gosa
3sgA caus2 3sgO be.good
He [did something which, indirectly] made her well
A similar mechanism–meaning correlation is found in another Austronesian
language, Chrau (Vietnam; D.M. Thomas 1969, and D.D. Thomas 1971) where
causative prefix ta- indicates direct action, by physical manipulation (e.g. ‘I
made the child stand up (by holding him)’) while the periphrastic causative
verb ôp indicates indirect causation, e.g. by issuing a command. And in
Alamblak (Papuan region; Bruce 1984: 153–9) there are a number of causative
prefixes, including ka- ‘make do by direct physical action’, while a causative
serial verb construction involving the verb hay (whose meaning when used
alone is ‘give’) is employed for indirect causation, where the causer and
causee need not even be at the same place when the event takes place (rather
like the verb cause in English). Compare:
(70) ka-fkne-më-r-m
caus1-enter-rem.past-3sg+m+A-3pl+O
He made them enter (by physically taking them)
70 R.M.W. Dixon
(71) yima-r hay-noh-më-t-a
person-3sg+m caus2-be.unconscious-rem.past-3sg+m+A-1sg+O
A man made me lose consciousness (lit. gave me something, causing me to
become unconscious)
See also Hinton (1982) on Mixtec (Mixtecan), Austin (1981: 159–60) on
Diyari (Australian) and Haiman (1983: 786) on Korean.
From the examples given it will be seen that indirect causation can have
varying significance. In Yimas, Hungarian and Chrau it appears to involve the
causer telling the causee to do something, while in Hindi and Jinghpaw it
can involve acting through an intermediary). There is need for a full study of
the semantics of indirect causation, taking a much larger sample of languages
than those mentioned here, and looking in detail at the meanings and condi-
tions for use of the indirect causative in each language.
7. Intention. Whether the causer achieves the result accidentally or
intentionally.
Kammu (Svantesson 1983: 103–11) has two causative mechanisms, a
prefix p(n)- and a preverbal particle, tòk. If the causer achieves the result
intentionally the prefix is used, and if they achieve the result accidentally
the particle is used. Compare the following:
(72) k•B p-háan tráak
3sg+m caus1-die buffalo
He slaughtered the buffalo
(73) k•B tòk háan múuc
3sg+m caus2 die ant
He happened to kill an ant (e.g. by accidentally treading on it)
We mentioned above that in Chrau a causative prefix is used for direct and
a periphrastic verb for indirect causation. These mechanisms can also be used
to mark intention – the causative verb alone for something achieved inten-
tionally, with the prefix and verb used together to indicate something that
was brought about accidentally. For example (D.M. Thomas 1969: 100):
(74) Pnh ôp dPq khlâyh
1sg caus2 trap escape
I made the trap spring (on purpose)
(75) Pnh ôp dPq ta-khlâyh
1sg caus2 trap caus1-escape
I made the trap spring (accidentally)
A typology of causatives 71
As described in §3.1, there are two syntactic frames available for the
causative of an So intransitive verb in Tariana (described by Aikhenvald in
chapter 5 below). If the causative verb lacks a pronominal prefix this indic-
ates lack of intention on the part of the causer, e.g. ‘the dog’s barking made
me frightened’ (the dog didn’t bark with the intention of scaring me). If it
bears a prefix, then this indicates intentionality, e.g. ‘he frightened them’ (he
meant to achieve this end). See examples (22–7) in chapter 5.
In other languages one type of causative construction will mark inten-
tional causation while another type is neutral as to whether the activity was
made to happen intentionally or accidentally. (Note that the reverse situation
– where just accidental is marked – is not attested.) In Spanish the verb hacer
‘make’ can be followed either by a ‘that’ clause, with the verb in subjunctive
form, or by a verb in infinitive form. The subjunctive can be used only when
the causer acted intentionally, whereas with an infinitive either an intentional
or an accidental reading is possible (Curnow 1993). In Javanese there are
three morphological mechanisms for marking a causative – suffix -ake, suffix
-i and initial reduplication. Most verbs only take one of these. There are,
however, some verbs which can take either -ake or -i and there is then a
difference of both intentionality and number. Suffix -i indicates intentional
activity and plural causee, while -ake is neutral with respect to both intention-
ality and number. Thus pecah-i is ‘intentionally break many (things)’ whereas
pecah-ake is ‘intentionally or accidentally break one or many (things)’
(Suhandano 1994: 66).
Motuna, described by Onishi in chapter 4 below, has a number of
S = O ambitransitive verbs, e.g. to- ‘be hit, hit’. The morphological causative
suffix, -wooto, applies to the intransitive sense of the verb, which then has
the same syntax as the verb used transitively. There is, however, a semantic
difference. The causative must be used where the referent of the A argu-
ment ‘initiates a process or activity but does not necessarily act directly or
intentionally’.
Kulikov (1993: 134–5) mentions further examples of this parameter.
8. Naturalness. Whether the activity happens fairly naturally (the causer just
initiating a natural process) or is achieved only with effort (perhaps, with
violence).
Russian uses a morphological causative describing something that happens
naturally and a periphrastic causative where violence or force (which can
include moral force) is employed. Thus (examples from Alexandra Y.
Aikhenvald):
72 R.M.W. Dixon
(76) on na-poi-l menja vinom
3sg+m preverb-drink+caus1-sg+m+past 1sg+acc wine+inst+sg
He got me to drink wine (and I didn’t resist)
(77) on za-stavi-l menja pitj vino
3sg+m preverb-caus2-sg+m+past 1sgacc drink wine+acc+sg
He forced me to drink wine (e.g. by threats or blows)
Among the causative suffixes which Mithun (chapter 3 of this volume) lists
for Yup'ik is -cir which ‘indicates causation without direct effort, by waiting
and allowing something to happen’.
In English there is a lexical causative (using what is basically an intransit-
ive verb in a transitive construction) and also a periphrastic mechanism with
verbs such as make. Where these contrast the lexical causative describes
something achieved by the causer naturally (with the causee being willing, if
it is animate) while the make construction implies definite effort (and an
unwilling causee). Compare the (a) and (b) alternatives in (78) and (79).
(78) (a) He walked the dog in the park (it wanted to walk)
(b) He made the dog walk in the park (although it didn’t want to)
(79) (a) He opened the door/melted the ice (without difficulty)
(b) He made the door open/ice melt (with difficulty)
Fijian is like Motuna in having many ambitransitive verbs of type S = O
(effectively a lexical causative), so that the morphological causative of the
intransitive has the same syntax as the plain transitive. There is, however, a
semantic difference. The plain transitive will be used for something achieved
fairly naturally, while the causative must be employed if some special effort
is required. The intransitive verb pono is ‘be caught with the hands (of an
animal, fish or person)’. If someone catches something or someone easily
they would use the plain transitive pono-qa (where -qa marks the verb as
transitive). If there is difficulty involved, with the catcher running after the
prey and making a determined effort to catch it, then the causative of the
intransitive would be used, vaqa-pono-qa (where vaqa- is the causative prefix)
(Dixon 1988: 188).
Aikhenvald (chapter 5 of this volume) describes how in Tariana the use of
a periphrastic causative implies a special effort on the part of the causer and/
or unwillingness of the causee, whereas a morphological causative will be
preferred when no special effort is needed. (As mentioned above, in some
languages alternative causative constructions may link the ideas of control
and volition, on the part of the causee, and that of naturalness from the point
of view of the causer.)
A typology of causatives 73
9. Involvement. Whether the causer is also involved in the activity (in
addition to the causee) or not involved.
In Nomatsiguenga (Arawak family, Peru; Wise 1986: 593) there is a caus-
ative prefix ogi- and a causative suffix -hag. The prefix is used when the
causer was not involved in the activity, and the suffix when they were
involved. Compare:
(80) y-ogi-monti-ë-ri i-tomi
3sg+m-caus1-cross.river-non.fut-3sg+m 3sg+m-son
He made his son cross the river (he told him to)
(81) y-monti-a-hag-ë-ri i-tomi
3sg+m-cross.river-epenthetic-caus2-non.fut-3sg+m 3sg+m-son
He made his son cross the river (he helped him across)
A similar distinction is made in Kamaiurá. Here we find two causative
prefixes to the verb: mo- indicating that the causee is not involved in the
activity (e.g. ‘he stopped the canoe, when he was outside it’), and (e)ro-
indicating that the causer was involved (e.g. ‘he stopped the canoe, when he
was inside it’). These examples are given in full in Dixon and Aikhenvald
(1997: 84).
Alamblak has a number of causative prefixes. One of them is ha-, used
when the causer is also involved in ( joins in with) the activity which they
make the causer undertake, e.g. ‘he made them enter (something) by entering
with them’ (Bruce 1984: 155).
The list presented here – of nine semantic parameters that characterize caus-
ative constructions – is a tentative one. Further work may suggest that it
should be re-organized, or that further parameters need to be added. For
example, Golovko (1993: 386) describes how Aleut has a distributive caus-
ative suffix -dgu, indicating that a set of causees is involved (the O NP must
take plural marking), distributed in space, e.g. ‘the woman is making the
hides dry’. Saksena (1982: 827–8) suggests that in Hindi different case mark-
ings on the causee in a causative construction can indicate whether the aim is
to get the activity done (by anyone), or to get it done specifically by the stated
causee. For the causative of an intransitive in Korean, the original S can take
accusative marking (indicating ‘do fully’) or dative (‘do to some extent’).
Thus ‘mother (A) child (dat) eat-caus’ signifies that the mother fed the child
once, whereas ‘mother (A) child (acc) eat-caus’ would describe her feeding
the child for its whole life. Interestingly, ‘die’ can only take the accusative
alternative, presumably because killing is, by its nature, something that is
done fully (Yunseok Lee, p.c.).
74 R.M.W. Dixon
We should also note that a certain morphological process may have causat-
ive effect with some verbs but a quite different effect with others. Nedyalkov
and Silnitsky (1973: 17–20) quote a number of examples of this. For in-
stance, from the Zulu verb enza ‘work’ can be derived enz-isa which means
‘work persistently’ (if there is no direct object) or ‘force to work’ (if there is
a direct object).
5 Meaning–mechanism correlations
We are now in a position to examine the correlation between values of the
semantic parameters and types of causative mechanism, for languages that have
more than one causative. There is some mention of this in the literature. Comrie
(1981: 164–7; 1989: 171–4) recognizes a continuum of causative mechanisms:
(82) analytic [i.e. periphrastic] – morphological – lexical
He suggests that this correlates with the continuum from less direct to more
direct causation, and with that from high control to low control on the part of
the causee. Haiman (1983: 783–8; 1985: 108–11) puts forward a ‘principle’
that if a language has two causatives then ‘the conceptual distance between
cause and result will correspond to the formal distance between cause and
result’. And Givón (1990: 556) makes the following prediction: ‘if a lan-
guage has both a periphrastic – syntactic complemention – causative and a
morphological causative, the former is more likely to code causation with a
human-agentive manipulee, while the latter is more likely to code causation
with an inanimate manipulee’ (his italics).
The present study reveals a correlation between the various semantic para-
meters and the degree of ‘compactness’ of a causative mechanism. We can
recognize a scale of compactness, set out in (83). (Note that the mechanism
of exchanging auxiliaries, discussed in §2.5, does not contrast with any other
mechanism, and is not included in (83).)
(83) Scale of compactness
type of mechanism
more compact L Lexical (e.g. walk, melt in English)
M Morphological – internal or tone change, lengthening,
reduplication, affixation, etc.
CP Two verbs in one predicate (‘Complex Predicate’),
including serial verbs; faire in French; compound-
ing in Tangkhul Naga, shown in (62); the causative
particle in Kammu, shown in (73).
P Periphrastic constructions with two verbs (a causat-
less compact ive verb and a lexical verb) in separate clauses
bcccffffg
A typology of causatives 75
We can, in addition, recognize degrees of compactness within M, morpho-
logical causatives. Firstly, a shorter affix is more compact than a longer one.
Secondly, a causative mechanism which does not lengthen the word – for
example, mutation of an initial consonant in Nivkh, illustrated in (48) – is
more compact than affixation. When there are two morphological mechan-
isms that differ in compactness, we use M1 for the more compact and M2 for
the less compact alternative.
There is a further possibility. One type of causative may be marked by a
single mechanism and another by a combination of two mechanisms. Thus in
Chrau the intentional causative involves just P (the causative verb ôp) whereas
something achieved accidentally involves a combination of P plus M (causat-
ive prefix ta-). The causative involving a single mechanism is plainly more
compact than that involving two mechanisms.
We are now in a position to look back over the nine semantic parameters,
discussed in §4, and examine how each correlates with the scale of compact-
ness. Note that in some instances the two mechanisms marking different
values of a semantic parameter do not differ in compactness, e.g. Yimas has
a serial verb construction for both direct and indirect causation, illustrated in
(66–67). For parameter 9, Involvement, the involved and not involved altern-
atives are marked by an affix of about the same length in the languages for
which this parameter is attested (Nomatsiguenga and Kamaiurá). In view of
this, Involvement cannot be included in the discussion that follows.
However, for most of the examples of the two causatives with a semantic
distinction, given in §4, the mechanisms involved do vary in compactness.
We find a significant correlation between the values of each parameter and
the compactness scale. This is set out in table 2.2.
The more compact (M1) and less compact (M2) morphological mechanisms
given in table 2.2 are:
(84) parameter language M1 M2
1 Amharic short prefix a- longer prefix as-
3 Creek suffix -ic double suffix -ipa-ic
4 Swahili suffix -esha repeated suffix -esh-esha
5 Tariana suffix -i double suffix -i-ta
6 Nivkh initial mutation suffix -(g)u
Apalai one suffix, -ma two suffixes, -ma-nohpo
Hindi short suffix -a longer suffix -va
Jinghpaw short prefix sha- long suffix -shangun
It will be seen that there is a clear correlation between compactness, as
measured by the scale set out in (83), and each of the first eight semantic
parameters. For seven of them we have at least two examples, and these
76
R.M.W.
Dixon
Table 2.2. Meaning–mechanism correlations
Parameter Meaning Mechanism Language
Causative type 1 Causative type 2 Causative type 1 Causative type 2
1 state action M1 M2 Amharic
M P Bahasa Indonesian and Malay
2 intransitive all transitive M P Austronesian, Mayan, etc.
intransitive and simple ditransitive M P Basque, Abkhaz
transitive
3 causee lacking control causee having control L M Japanese
M1 M2 Creek
4 causee willing causee unwilling M1 M2 Swahili
M CP Tangkhul Naga
M P Swahili
5 causee partially affected causee fully affected M1 M2 Tariana
6 direct indirect M1 M2 Nivkh, Apalai, Hindi, Jinghpaw
M P Buru, Chrau, Alamblak, Mixtec,
Korean
7 intentional accidental M CP Kammu
P M plus P Chrau
8 naturally with effort L M Fijian
L P English
M P Russian, Tariana
A typology of causatives 77
agree. In parameter 6, for instance, the direct value of the parameter is
always marked by the more compact mechanism, and the indirect value
by the less compact one. The actual mechanisms are initial mutation versus
suffix in Nivkh, one suffix versus two suffixes in Apalai, short affix versus
longer affix in Hindi and Jinghpaw, and morphological versus periphrastic
mechanism in Buru, Chrau, Alamblak, Mixtec and Korean. Only for para-
meter 5 is there a single example; in Tariana the suffix -i marks causee
partially affected while double suffix -i+ta is used when the causee is com-
pletely affected by the activity.
These results agree with Comrie’s observations regarding the Directness
and Control parameters, mentioned at the beginning of this section. Haiman’s
principle concerning ‘formal distance’ and ‘conceptual distance’ is rather
vague, but could be interpreted as applying to the correlations established
here. Givón’s prediction could be taken to relate to parameter 3, Control – the
causee can only be in control if human/animate and this does correlate with a
less compact mechanism (e.g. periphrastic, as opposed to morphological).
There may be a number of ways of interpreting the correlations shown in
table 2.2. One is that each of the meaning columns characterizes some kind of
prototype:
Prototype 1 – Causer achieves a result naturally, intentionally and directly,
the causee either lacking control or having control and being willing, and
being only partially affected. May only apply to intransitive verbs (or just to
intransitive and simple transitive), or be more restricted and apply just to state
verbs.
Prototype 2 – Causer achieves the result accidentally, or uses effort, or acts
indirectly, the causee being in control but acting unwillingly, and being com-
pletely affected. It is likely to be used with all types of verbs.
These composite prototypes are artificial – and thus unsatisfying – inasmuch
as only two or three of the components are likely to apply together (not all
eight) to distinguish the causative mechanisms in a given language.
The interesting point is the correlation between ‘more compact’ and the
parameter values in the Type 1 column – naturally rather than with effort,
intentionally rather than accidentally, directly rather than indirectly; causee
only partially affected, willing, lacking control; and applying only to some
verbs (at the intransitive and/or state ends of the parameters 1 and 2). This is
surely a ripe field for investigation of cognitive mechanisms.
Finally, a warning is in order. This is a tentative and preliminary study of
the marking, syntax and semantics of causative constructions, and of meaning–
78 R.M.W. Dixon
mechanism correlations. A number of parameters of variation have been
suggested, but need to be exhaustively tested against a much wider sample
of the world’s languages. Further work may well reveal that some of the
meaning–mechanism correlations are not universally so ‘neat’ as appears to
be the case from table 2.2. The results presented here will certainly need to be
revised and extended, when further relevant data on individual languages is
consulted.
6 Summary
This chapter has pursued an inductive investigation of causative constructions
(interpreted in a fairly narrow sense – that is, by excluding such things as ‘I
speak and child eats’). We identified five mechanisms for marking a causative
– morphological, two verbs in one predicate, periphrastic, lexical and exchang-
ing auxiliaries.
The syntax of causative constructions was covered in some detail, particu-
larly the treatment of the original A and O in the causative of a transitive
clause. In (24) I enumerated five strategies that languages employ – (i) having
a special marking for the original A (the causee); (ii) allowing both causer
and causee to be marked like an A; (iii) allowing both causee and original O
to be marked like an O; (iv) making the causee the new O with original O
now taking some peripheral marking; (v) original O staying as O, with the
causee taking non-core marking. Within (v) there are two sub-types – either
the causee gets a fixed marking, or the causee goes into the first empty slot on
a hierarchy of syntactic functions. The last alternative – although regarded by
Comrie (1975 and following publications) as the ‘paradigm case’ – is in fact
rather rare.
If a language has two (or more) different causative mechanisms these
will contrast semantically. We recognized nine parameters of variation: State/
Action, Transitivity (these two relating to the verb); Control, Volition, Af-
fectedness (these three relating to the causee); Directness, Intention, Natural-
ness and Involvement (these four relating to the causer). If a language has a
single causative mechanism it is not sufficient to just say that it is ‘causative’.
Its semantic profile should be investigated, in terms of the nine parameters
given here (and any further ones that may prove to be relevant).
Finally, §5 established a consistent correlation between the values of the
semantic parameters and whether the associated causative mechanism is ‘more
compact’ or ‘less compact’, as set out in table 2.2.
A typology of causatives 79
References
Abbott, M. 1991. ‘Macushi’, pp. 23–160 of Derbyshire and Pullum 1991.
Abitov, M.L., Balkarov, B.X., Desheriev, Y.D., Rogava, G.V., El’berdov, X.U.,
Kardanov, B.M. and Kuasheva, T.X. 1957. Grammatika kabardino-cherkesskogo
literaturnogo jazyka. [A grammar of literary Kabardian-Cherkess.] Moscow:
Akademija Nauk SSSR.
Aikhenvald, A.Y. Forthcoming. ‘Serial constructions and verb compounding: evid-
ence from Tariana (North Arawak)’, to appear in Studies in Language.
Aissen, J. 1974. ‘Verb raising’, Linguistic Inquiry 5.325–66.
Alcalay, R. 1974. The complete Hebrew–English dictionary. Bridgeport, Conn.: Prayer
Book Press.
Allen, B.J., Gardiner, D.B. and Frantz, D.G. 1984. ‘Noun incorporation in Southern
Tiwa’, International Journal of American Linguistics 50.292–311.
Allen, W.S. 1956. ‘Structure and system in the Abaza verbal complex’, Transactions
of the Philological Society, pp. 127–76.
Arokianathan, S. 1987. Tangkhul Naga grammar. Mysore: Central Institute for Indian
Languages.
Aronson, H.I. 1991. ‘Modern Georgian’, pp. 219–312 of The indigenous languages of
the Caucasus, Vol. I, The Kartvelian languages, ed. A.C. Harris. Delmark, N.Y.:
Caravan Books.
Austin, P. 1981. A grammar of Diyari, South Australia. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
1997. ‘Causatives and applicatives in Australian Aboriginal languages’, pp. 165–
225 of The dative and related phenomena, ed. K. Matsumura and T. Hayasi.
Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Baker, M.C. 1988. Incorporation: a theory of grammatical function changing.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1996. The polysynthesis parameter. New York: Oxford University Press.
Bauer, W. 1993. Maori. London: Routledge.
Bhatia, T.K. 1993. Punjabi. London: Routledge.
Borgman, D.M. 1990. ‘Sanuma’, pp. 15–248 of Derbyshire and Pullum 1990.
Bruce, L. 1984. The Alamblak language of Papua New Guinea (East Sepik).
Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Bybee, J., Haiman, J. and Thompson, S.A. (eds.) 1997. Essays on language function
and language type, dedicated to T. Givón. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chapman, S. and Derbyshire, D.C. 1991. ‘Paumarí’, pp. 161–332 of Derbyshire and
Pullum 1991.
Cole, P. 1976. ‘A causative construction in Modern Hebrew: theoretical implica-
tions’, pp. 99–128 of Studies in Modern Hebrew syntax and semantics: the
transformational-generative approach. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
1982. Imbabura Quechua. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
1983. ‘The grammatical role of the causee in universal grammar’, International
Journal of American Linguistics 49.115–33.
Comrie, B. 1975. ‘Causatives and universal grammar’, Transactions of the Philo-
logical Society for 1974, pp. 1–32.
80 R.M.W. Dixon
1976. ‘The syntax of causative constructions: cross-language similarities and diver-
gencies’, pp. 261–312 of Shibatani 1976b.
1981. Language universals and linguistic typology. Oxford: Blackwell.
1985. ‘Causative verb formation and other verb-deriving morphology’, pp. 309–48
of Language typology and syntactic description, Vol. III, Grammatical categor-
ies and the lexicon, ed. T. Shopen. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1989. Language universals and linguistic typology, 2nd edn. Oxford: Blackwell.
Comrie, B. and Polinsky, M. (eds.) 1993. Causatives and transitivity. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Crowley, T.M. 1978. The Middle Clarence dialects of Bandjalang. Canberra: Austral-
ian Institute of Aboriginal Studies.
1983. ‘Uradhi’, pp. 306–428 of Handbook of Australian languages, Vol. III, ed.
R.M.W. Dixon and B.J. Blake. Canberra: Australian National University Press.
1987. ‘Serial verbs in Paamese’, Studies in Language 11.35–84.
Curnow, T.J. 1993. ‘Semantics of Spanish causatives involving hacer’, Australian
Journal of Linguistics 13.165–84.
1997. ‘A grammar of Awa Pit (Cuaiquer): an indigenous language of south-western
Colombia’. Ph.D. thesis. Australian National University.
Derbyshire, D.C. 1979. Hixkaryana. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
1985. Hixkaryana and linguistic typology. Dallas: Summer Institute of Linguistics
and University of Texas at Arlington.
Derbyshire, D.C. and Pullum, G.K. (eds.) 1986. Handbook of Amazonian languages,
Vol. I. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
(eds.) 1990. Handbook of Amazonian languages, Vol. II. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
(eds.) 1991. Handbook of Amazonian languages, Vol. III. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1972. The Dyirbal language of North Queensland. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
1977. A grammar of Yidio. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1982. Where have all the adjectives gone?, and other essays in semantics and
syntax. Berlin: Mouton.
1988. A grammar of Boumaa Fijian. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1991. A new approach to English grammar, on semantic principles. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Forthcoming. Australian languages, Vol. I, Their nature and development; Vol. II,
A complete catalogue. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined
constructions’, pp. 71–113 of Bybee, Haiman and Thompson 1997.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Vogel, A. Forthcoming. The Jarawara language of southern Amazonia.
Dubinsky, S., Lloret, M.-R. and Newman, P. 1988. ‘Lexical and syntactic causatives
in Oromo’, Language 64.485–500.
Éva, H. 1990. ‘Grammatical relations in Gamo: a pilot sketch’, pp. 356–405 of
Omotic language studies, ed. R.J. Hayward. London: School of Oriental and
African Studies.
Evans, N. 1995. A grammar of Kayardild, with historical-comparative notes on Tangkic.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
A typology of causatives 81
Fodor, J.A. 1970. ‘Three reasons for not deriving “kill” from “cause to die”’, Lin-
guistic Inquiry 1.429–38.
Foley, W.A. 1991. The Yimas language of New Guinea. Stanford: Stanford University
Press.
Fortescue, M. 1984. West Greenlandic. London: Croom Helm.
Frawley, W. 1992. Linguistic semantics. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Gair, J.W. 1970. Colloquial Sinhalese clause structure. The Hague: Mouton.
Gibson, J. 1980. ‘Clause union in Chamorro and universal grammar’. Ph.D. disserta-
tion. University of California at San Diego.
Givón, T. 1990. Syntax: a functional-typological introduction, Vol. II. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Golovko, E.V. 1993. ‘On non-causative effects of causativity in Aleut’, pp. 385–90 of
Comrie and Polinsky 1993.
Grimes, C.E. 1991. ‘The Buru language of eastern Indonesia’. Ph.D. thesis. Australian
National University.
Guirardello, R. 1999. ‘Trumai’, pp. 351–3 of The Amazonian languages, ed. R.M.W.
Dixon and A.Y. Aikhenvald. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Haas, M. 1941. ‘Tunica’, pp. 1–143 of Handbook of American Indian languages,
Vol. IV. New York: J.J. Augustin.
Haiman, J. 1983. ‘Iconic and economic motivation’, Language 59.781–819.
1985. Natural syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hale, K. 1997. ‘The Misumalpan causative construction’, pp. 199–216 of Bybee,
Haiman and Thompson 1997.
Hetzron, R. 1976. ‘On the Hungarian causative verb and its syntax’, pp. 371–98 of
Shibatani 1976b.
Hewitt, B.G. 1979. Abkhaz. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
1983. ‘The causative; Daghestanian variations on a theme’, Papers in Linguistics
16.171–202.
Hinton, L. 1982. ‘How to cause in Mixtec’, Berkeley Linguistics Society Proceedings
8.354–63.
Holes, C. 1990. Gulf Arabic. London: Routledge.
Jeyapaul, V.Y. 1987. Karbi grammar. Mysore: Central Institute for Indian Languages.
Joseph, B.D. and Philippaki-Warburton, I. 1987. Modern Greek. London: Routledge.
Kachru, Y. 1976. ‘On the semantics of the causative construction in Hindi-Urdu’,
pp. 353–69 of Shibatani 1976b.
Kakumasu, J. 1986. ‘Urubu-Kaapor’, pp. 326–403 of Derbyshire and Pullum 1986.
Keenan, E.L. and Comrie, B. 1977. ‘Noun phrase accessibility and universal gram-
mar’, Linguistic Inquiry 8.63–99.
Kenesei, I., Vago, R.M. and Fenyvesi, A. 1998. Hungarian. London: Routledge.
Koehn, E. and Koehn, S. 1986. ‘Apalai’, pp. 33–127 of Derbyshire and Pullum 1986.
Kornfilt, J. 1997. Turkish. London: Routledge.
Kozinsky, I. and Polinsky, M. 1993. ‘Causee and patient in the causative of transitive:
coding conflict or doubling of grammatical relations’, pp. 177–240 of Comrie
and Polinsky 1993.
Krishnamurti, Bh. and Gwynn, J.P.L. 1985. A grammar of Modern Telugu. Delhi:
Oxford University Press.
82 R.M.W. Dixon
Kulikov, L.I. 1993. ‘The “second causative”: a typological sketch’, pp. 121–54 of
Comrie and Polinsky 1993.
LaPolla, R.J. 1996. ‘Grammatical sketch of the Qiang language with texts and annot-
ated glossary’. Typescript.
Li, C.N. and Thompson, S.A. 1976. ‘Development of the causative in Mandarin
Chinese: interaction of diachronic processes in syntax’, pp. 477–92 of Shibatani
1976b.
Lord, C. 1974. ‘Causative constructions in Yoruba’, Studies in African Linguistics,
Supplement 5, pp. 195–204.
Mahootian, S. 1997. Persian. London: Routledge.
Maran, L.R. and Clifton, J.R. 1976. ‘The causative mechanism in Jinghpaw’, pp. 443–
58 of Shibatani 1976b.
Martin, J.B. 1991. ‘Lexical and syntactic aspects of Creek causatives’, International
Journal of American Linguistics 57.194–229.
Masica, C.P. 1976. Defining a linguistic area: South Asia. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Matisoff, J.A. 1973. The grammar of Lahu. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of
California Press.
Merlan, F. 1982. Mangarayi. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Mosel, U. 1984. Tolai syntax and its historical development. Canberra: Pacific
Linguistics.
Nedjalkov, I. 1997. Evenki. London: Routledge.
Nedjalkov, V.P., Otaina, G.A. and XolodoviQ, A.A. 1995. ‘Morphological and lexical
causatives in Nivkh’, pp. 60–81 of Subject, voice and ergativity: selected essays,
ed. D.C. Bennett, T. Bynon and B.G. Hewitt. London: School of Oriental and
African Studies.
Nedyalkov, V.P. and Silnitsky, G.G. 1973. ‘The typology of morphological and lex-
ical causatives’, pp. 1–32 of Trends in Soviet theoretical linguistics, ed. F. Keifer.
Dordrecht: Reidel.
Nichols, J. 1985. ‘Switch-reference causatives’, CLS 21, part 2.193–203.
O’Connor, M.C. 1992. Topics in Northern Pomo grammar. New York: Garland.
Oswalt, R.L. 1977. ‘The causative as a reference switching mechanism in Western
Pomo’, BLS 3.46–54.
Owens, J. 1985. A grammar of Harar Oromo (Northeastern Ethiopia). Hamburg:
Helmut Buske.
Palmer, F.R. 1994. Grammatical roles and relations. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Pandharipande, R.V. 1997. Marathi. London: Routledge.
Payne, D.L. 1990. ‘Morphological characteristics of Lowland South American lan-
guages’, pp. 213–41 of Amazonian linguistics: studies in Lowland South Amer-
ican languages, ed. D.L. Payne. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Payne, D.L. and Payne, T.E. 1990. ‘Yagua’, pp. 249–474 of Derbyshire and Pullum 1990.
Popjes, J. and Popjes, J. 1986. ‘Canela-Kraho’, pp. 128–99 of Derbyshire and Pullum
1986.
Saksena, A. 1982. ‘Contact in causation’, Language 58.820–31.
Saltarelli, M. 1988. Basque. London: Routledge.
A typology of causatives 83
Sastry, G.D.P. 1984. Mishmi grammar. Mysore: Central Institute of Indian Languages.
Schaub, W. 1985. Babungo. London: Croom Helm.
Seki, L. Forthcoming. Gramática da língua Kamaiurá. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Senn, A. 1966. Handbuch der Litauischen Sprache, Vol. I, Grammatik. Heidelberg:
Winter.
Sharma, J.C. 1982. Gojri grammar. Mysore: Central Institute for Indian Languages.
Shibatani, M. 1976a. ‘The grammar of causative constructions: a conspectus’, pp. 1–
40 of Shibatani 1976b.
(ed.) 1976b. Syntax and semantics, Vol. VI, The grammar of causative construc-
tions. New York: Academic Press.
1990. The languages of Japan. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Shopen, T. and Konaré, M. 1970. ‘Sonrai causatives and passives: transformational
versus lexical derivations for propositional heads’, Studies in African Linguistics
1.211–54.
Sohn, H.-M. 1994. Korean. London: Routledge.
Song, J.J. 1996. Causatives and causation. London: Longman.
Sridhar, S.N. 1979. ‘Dative subjects and the notion of subject’, Lingua 49.99–125.
1990. Kannada. London: Routledge.
Suhandano. 1994. ‘Grammatical relations in Javanese: a short description’. MA thesis,
Australian National University.
Sulkala, H. and Karjalainen, M. 1992. Finnish. London: Routledge.
Sumbatova, N.R. 1993. ‘Causative constructions in Svan: further evidence for role
domination’, pp. 253–70 of Comrie and Polinsky 1993.
Svantesson, J.-O. 1983. Kammu phonology and morphology, Traveaux de l’institut de
linguistique de Lund 18. Lund: University of Lund.
Tampubolon, D.P. 1983. Verbal affixations in Indonesian: a semantic exploration.
Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Tamura, S. 1988. ‘Ainugo’ [‘The Ainu language’], pp. 6–94 of Gengogaku daijten
[Encyclopaedia of linguistics], Vol. I. Toyko: Sanseido.
Tavares, P. 1995. ‘Causation in Wayâna (Cariban)’. Handout for paper presented at a
meeting of the Society for the Study of the Indigenous Languages of the Amer-
icas, held at the University of New Mexico.
Thomas, D.D. 1971. Chrau grammar (Oceanic Linguistics Special Publication No. 7).
Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press.
Thomas, D.M. 1969. ‘Chrau affixes’, Mon-Khmer Studies 3.90–107.
Tonoike, S. 1978. ‘On the causative constructions in Japanese’, pp. 3–29 of Problems
in Japanese syntax and semantics, ed. J. Hinds and I. Howard. Tokyo: Kaitakusha.
Trithart, M. 1977. ‘Relational grammar and Chichewa subjectivization’. Ph.D. disserta-
tion. UCLA.
Tsujimura, N. 1996. An introduction to Japanese linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Vitale, A.J. 1981. Swahili syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Wali, K. and Koul, O.N. 1997. Kashmiri: a cognitive–descriptive grammar. London:
Routledge.
Watkins, L.J. 1984. A grammar of Kiowa. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press.
Wise, M.R. 1986. ‘Grammatical characteristics of PreAndine Arawakan languages of
Peru’, pp. 567–642 of Derbyshire and Pullum 1986.
84 Marianne Mithun
3 Valency-changing derivation in
Central Alaskan Yup'ik
MARIANNE MITHUN
Central Alaskan Yup'ik is a language of the Eskimo-Aleut family, spoken
in southwestern Alaska by over 10,000 people. Like other languages in the
family, Yup'ik has much to contribute to the study of valency-changing deriva-
tion, particularly because of its explicit specification of grammatical relations
and its wealth of valency-changing devices. The roles of participants in events
and states are distinguished both by case suffixes on nouns and by pronom-
inal suffixes on verbs. The language is highly polysynthetic, with hundreds
of derivational suffixes, many of which affect argument structure. The rich
inventory of valency-changing devices provides a fruitful basis for cross-
linguistic comparison, showing us ways in which such devices can vary in
their semantic, syntactic and discourse effects.
The basic grammatical structures of the Eskimoan languages are well under-
stood, thanks to pioneering work on Greenlandic by Egede (1750, 1760),
Kleinschmidt (1851), and many others working with Eskimo-Aleut languages
since that time. Fine descriptions of Yup'ik are now available, especially
Woodbury (1981), Jacobson (1984, 1995), Miyaoka (1984, 1987, 1996 and
1997) and Reed, Miyaoka, Jacobson, Afcan and Krauss (1977). These works
have proven invaluable in the investigation of the structures discussed here.
Additional studies are in Mithun (1996). Material cited in the present work
comes primarily from conversations among members of the Charles family
and their friends of Bethel, Alaska, especially Nick Charles (NC), Elena
Charles (EC), George Charles (GC) and Elizabeth Charles Ali (EA).
1 Basic morphological structure
Yup'ik words are classified as either uninflected (particles) or inflected (nouns
and verbs). Inflected words have a straightforward internal structure: an
Yup'ik 85
initial root (traditionally termed a base by Eskimologists), any number of
derivational suffixes (termed postbases) and a final inflectional suffix com-
plex (termed an ending).
root (derivational suffixes) inflectional suffixes
base (postbases) ending
nouns and verbs: internal structure
On nouns, the inflectional ending encodes number, case, and identification
of the possessor if there is one. Singular, dual and plural number are dis-
tinguished; 1st, 2nd, 3rd and coreferential person for possessors; and seven
cases: absolutive (unmarked), ergative (which also serves as the genitive),
ablative (‘from, about’), allative (‘to, towards’), locative (‘in, at’), vialis
(‘through’ and instrumental ‘with’) and aequalis (‘like’).
(1) Some sample nouns1
qayaq qayak qayarmi qayacetun
qayar qayar-k qayar-mi qayar-cetun
kayak kayak-du kayak-loc kayak-pl.vialis
kayak two kayaks in a kayak with kayaks
Nouns may be derivationally complex.
(2) Derived noun
kipusviliurtet
kipute-vik-liur-ta-t
buy-locative.nominalizer-be.occupied.with-agentive.nominalizer-pl
storekeepers (lit. those who take care of the store)
Possession is shown by a transitive pronominal suffix referring to the posses-
sor and the possessed.
1
The transcription used here is the practical orthography developed by the Alaska Native Lan-
guage Center in Fairbanks, Alaska. Stops are plain: p, t, c ( = [Q]), k, q. There is a series of
voiced fricatives v, s = [z], l, y, g = [γ], ug = [γw
]), r = [Y], ur = [Yw
], and a series of voiceless
fricatives vv = [f], ss = [s], ll = [4], gg = [x], w = [xw
], rr = [Z], urr = [Zw
]. Nasals are m, n,
ng = [D]. There are three prime vowels i, a, u, and schwa, spelled e. Following consonants the
apostrophe (') usually indicates gemination, as in Yup'ik. In line one of the examples, the
orthographic hyphen (-) separates enclitics. In line two, a hyphen separates suffixes and
the equals sign (=) separates enclitics.
Work with speakers of Central Alaskan Yup'ik has been made possible by grants from the
Academic Senate, University of California, Santa Barbara. I am especially grateful to Elizabeth
Ali and George Charles for their help in transcribing and translating the conversations on
which this work was based, and for their discussion of the material. I have also appreciated
general discussions about the language with Nancy Caplow, Gary Holton, Jim Reed, Ivo
Sanchez, Kathy Sands and Robin Shoaps.
86 Marianne Mithun
(3) Possessive suffixes
qayaqa
qayar-ka
kayak-1sg/3sg
my kayak
iqvallerminek
iqvar-ller-minek
pick.berries-past.nominalizer-r/3pl.ablative
from her picked berries (lit. [she made it] from the berries she had picked)
On verbs, the inflectional ending contains a mood marker and pronominal
suffix. The moods include an indicative, interrogative, optative, participial,
subordinative and a set of connectives that link subordinate clauses: past con-
temporative (‘when’ in the past), contemporative (‘while’), precessive (‘before’),
concessive (‘whenever’), contingent (‘whenever’), consequential (‘because’) and
a conditional (‘if, when in the future’). For each mood there is a pronominal
suffix paradigm that specifies the core arguments of the clause, one for intransit-
ives, two for transitives. Four persons are distinguished (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and
co-referential or extended reflexive) and three numbers (singular, dual and
plural). There is no gender distinction. The pronominal suffixes are now fused
complexes, but within the pronominal paradigms for some moods (indicative,
participial), traces of an absolutive category can be perceived, while within
the paradigms for others (subordinative, the connectives), traces of a subject
category can be discerned. Examples of verb morphology can be seen in (4).
(4) Sample verbs: GC, EA, EC
(a) aqumetullruuq
aqume-tu-llru-u-q
sit-customarily-past-indicative.intransitive-3sg
He would sit
(b) tangerrsuumiitamken
tangerr-yuumiite-a-mken
see-not.want-indicative.transitive-1sg/2sg
I do not want to see you
(c) aguumarlinrilkumeng-llu
aguumar-li-nrite-ku-meng=llu
basket-make-not-conditional-r.pl=and
and if they themselves did not make baskets
2 Stem types
The transitivity of every verb is clear from its pronominal suffixes. Verb
stems fall into three transitivity classes: intransitive only (inflectable only as
Yup'ik 87
intransitives), transitive only (inflectable only as transitives) and ambitransitive
(inflectable either way).
(5) Intransitive only
amllertuq
amller-tu-q
be.much-indicative.intransitive-3sg
It is a lot
amirlu- ‘be cloudy’ malri- ‘give birth to twins’
ayarr’ar- ‘tell a string story’ naku- ‘be cross-eyed’
elrir- ‘hold a feast’ uar- ‘yelp’
kaig- ‘be hungry’ uite- ‘open one’s eyes, bloom’
kuvviar- ‘drink coffee’ qakete- ‘resubmerge after coming
mallu- ‘find a beached carcass’ to the surface (fish, seal)’
panger- ‘paddle with a double- qamigar- ‘go seal-hunting with small
bladed paddle’ sled and kayak in spring’
(6) Transitive only
eguaquraa
eguaqur-a-a
persuade-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
She persuaded him
allurte- ‘take something from’ kelucar- ‘lock’
egte- ‘throw (usually away)’ nalug- ‘hoist’
equg- ‘carry on shoulder’ takar- ‘be intimidated by’
kamak- ‘suspect someone’ ullag- ‘approach’
naive- ‘pour from one paqrite- ‘discover missing
container to another’ (implying taken
qacarte- ‘hit or slap with the hand, without permission)’
blow against (of wind)’ qamite- ‘give something to take
tapir- ‘give something along along on a journey to’
with’ uskurar- ‘harness’
(7) Ambitransitive: ige- ‘to swallow’
ig’uq igaa
ige-u-q ige-a-a
swallow-indic.intransitive-3sg swallow-indic.transitive-3sg/3sg
She swallowed She swallowed it
The ambitransitives fall into two subclasses, termed ‘agentive’ and ‘patientive’
ambivalents or ambitransitives. With agentive ambitransitives, the single argu-
ment of the intransitive is agentive; it corresponds to the ergative argument of
the transitive.
88 Marianne Mithun
(8) Agentive ambitransitives: akqe- ‘promise’
akqua akqaqa
akqe-u-a akqe-ar-ka
promise-indic.intransitive-1sg promise-indic.transitive-1sg/3sg
I promised I promised him
amllir- ‘step over (something)’ makete- ‘get up; set (something)
anger- ‘agree (with)’ upright’
callug- ‘fight (with)’ naqe- ‘ooze (on)’
callur- ‘be too big (for)’ pai- ‘stay behind; babysit for’
kaaleg- ‘rummage (through)’ qakvar- ‘win; beat’
kanar- ‘emerge from woods kagi- ‘sweep (something)’
down to body of water; yuu- ‘disembark; remove (net,
emerge at’ snare), take off (clothing)’
With patientive ambitransitives, the single argument of the intransitive cor-
responds to the absolutive of the transitive. It thus tends to be a semantic
patient.
(9) Patientive ambitransitives: cagte- ‘scatter, spread out, be in disarray’
cagtuq cagtaqa
cagte-u-q cagte-ar-ka
scatter-indic.intransitive-3sg scatter-indic.transitive-1sg/3sg
it is spread out, in disarray I am spreading it out
akag- ‘roll (something)’ mecir- ‘be soaked; soak’
akngirte- ‘get hurt; hurt’ nalke- ‘be found; find’
alleg- ‘get torn; tear (something)’ tallegte- ‘get scratched; scratch’
amu- ‘come out; extract’ tamar- ‘be lost; lose, misplace’
egua- ‘burn (something)’ palarte- ‘not get; not give
kape- ‘get stabbed; stab, poke, enough’
innoculate’ qacu- ‘be loose, wrinkled;
passi- ‘get squashed; smash flat’ gather (cloth), wrinkle’
There are never more than two core arguments in a verb. When a beneficiary
is involved in an event, it is often coded as the absolutive, as in cikir- ‘give’
and payugte- ‘bring food to’:
(10) cikir- ‘give’: EA
wani-wa, carrakuinegmek cikirciqamken
wani=wa ca-rraq-kuineg-mek cikir-ciqe-a-mken
here=emph thing-little.bit-small.amount-abl give-fut-indic.tr-1sg/2sg
All right, I (ergative) will give you (absolutive) a little bit (ablative)
(11) payugte- ‘bring food to’: EA
taukunek payugeskii, apa’urluni
tau-kunek payugte-ke-ii apa-urluq-ni
that-pl.abl bring.food-part.tr-3sg/3sg grandpa-dear-3sg/3sg
She (ergative) brought those things to her dear grandfather (absolutive)
Yup'ik 89
The semantic patient appears as an ablative (oblique), as can be seen in both
(10) and (11). Other verbs with beneficiaries as absolutives include aruqe- ‘to
distribute gifts or shares of a catch’ (aruqai ‘he is distributing (things) to
them’), qamite- ‘to give something to take along on a journey’ (qamitaa ‘he
gave her something to take along’) and apete- ‘to inquire, ask a question’
(aptaa ‘he asked her’). But beneficiaries need not always be coded as core
arguments. The language offers extensive lexical and derivational alternat-
ives. Other verbs cast the patient (object given/shown) as the absolutive, such
as mani- ‘show, display, put out on view, put on the stove’, (mania ‘she put
it out, put it on the stove’), nasvag- ‘show, display’ (nasvagaa ‘she is show-
ing it’), and apertur- ‘show, point out’ (aperturaa ‘she pointed it out’), in
contrast with the derived apertuute- ‘show, point out to’ (apertuutaa ‘she
pointed something out to him’).
3 Valency-reducing derivation
Within its derivational morphology, Yup'ik contains several devices for
reducing valency. Some permit the omission of the agent from the set of
core arguments, a typical function of passives. Others permit the omission of
patients, a typical function of antipassives.
3.1 Agent omission
As seen in the previous section, Yup'ik contains a simple device for eliminat-
ing the agent from the set of core arguments. The verbs called patientive
ambitransitives, such as katag- ‘drop’, may be inflected as intransitives. The
single argument of the intransitive is the semantic patient: ‘fall’. A com-
parison of the transitive and intransitive forms of ‘drop/fall’ can be seen in
(12) and (13).
(12) Transitive inflection of katag- ‘drop’: EA
iggluni taukut-llu atsat, katagluki– tamalkuita
igte-lu-ni tau-kut=llu atsar-t katag-lu-ki tamalkur-ita
fall-sub-3sg that-pl=and fruit-pl fall.off-sub-r/3pl all-3pl
He fell (off of his bicycle) and lost all of the fruit
(13) Intransitive inflection of katag- ‘fall’: EA
katalliniuq
katag-llini-u-q
fall.out-apparently-indicative.intransitive-3pl
They must have fallen out
Of course omission of the agent by inflection alone can be accomplished
only with patientive ambitransitives. Yup'ik also contains derivational devices
90 Marianne Mithun
that can exclude agents from the core. Two suffixes in particular, -cir- and
-ma-, appear to be passive in function.
(14) Passive-like suffixes
-cir- tegleg- ‘to steal’
teglegaa ‘he stole it’ transitive
teglegcirtuq ‘it got stolen’ intransitive
-ma- ini- ‘to hang out to dry’
inia ‘she hung it’ transitive
inimauq ‘it’s been hung’ intransitive
The suffix -cir- (with phonologically conditioned alternants -sciur-, -scir-
and -ciur-) can be seen in (15). As a boat was being loaded in a rush, it
tipped. Water in the bottom got onto the bedding and soaked it. A comparison
of this verb with the basic form mecunguq ‘it is wet’, shows that the -cir-
form does imply that the state of wetness resulted from an earlier event:
(15) Suffix -cir-: EA
mecungcirtuq cf. mecunguq
mecunge-cir-tu-q mecunge-u-q
be.soaked-adversative- be.soaked-
indicative.intransitive-3sg indicative.intransitive-3sg
It was caused to get wet It is wet
A survey of the uses of -cir- indicates that it consistently carries an advers-
ative meaning. As noted by Shibatani (1996) and others, this is a common
though by no means necessary feature of many passives. In fact, it is the
valency-changing effect of the suffix seen in (15) that is not a necessary
element of its function. The example in (16) was used when someone had
allowed the fish to become damp. Both the original verb base and the derived
verb are intransitive, with the semantic patient as absolutive. There was thus
no change in argument structure.
(16) Adversative -cir-: EA
neqerrluk yukucirtuq
neqe-rrluk yuku-cir-tu-q
fish-departed.from.natural.state be.mouldy-get-indicative.intransitive-3sg
That beautiful piece of dry fish (absolutive) got mouldy
If an agent is mentioned in such constructions, it is expressed in the allative
(oblique) case. (Jacobson 1995 notes that in some areas, the ablative is used
for this purpose.)
Yup'ik 91
(17) Oblique agent: EA (elicited)
neresciurtuq qimugtemun
nere-sciur-tu-q qimugte-mun
eat-get-indicative.intransitive-3sg dog-allative
It (absolutive) got eaten by a dog (allative)
The second suffix with passive-like meaning is -ma- (with phonologically
conditioned alternants -uma-, -ima- and -nga-). It may be attached to verbs of
all transitivity types. On transitive-only stems, it derives an intransitive with
just a patient argument, as might be expected of a passive.
(18) -ma- on transitive-only stem
meleg- ‘to close’
melgaa ‘he closed it’
melgumauq ‘it is closed’
The suffix -ma- may also be attached to ambitransitive stems. Here the pat-
tern is slightly more unexpected. On agentive ambitransitives, the derived
intransitive may have either an agent argument, as on the left below in (19),
or a patient argument, as on the right.
(19) -ma- on agentive ambitransitive stem
nere- ‘to eat’
ner’uq ‘he ate’ neraa ‘he ate it’
nerumauq ‘he has eaten’ nerumauq ‘it has been eaten’
On patientive ambitransitives, the derived intransitive always has a patient
argument.
(20) -ma- on patientive ambitransitive stem
kitugte- ‘to repair’
kitugtuq ‘it is fixed’ kitugtaa ‘he fixed it’
kitugngauq ‘it is fixed’ kitugngauq ‘it is fixed’
The suffix -ma- may also be attached to intransitive-only stems. The argu-
ment of the derived intransitive is the same as that of the base stem, semantic
agent or patient.
(21) -ma- on intransitive-only stems
ayag- ‘to leave, go’ tuqu- ‘to die’
ayagtuq ‘he left’ tuquuq ‘it died’
ayaumauq ‘he has left, is gone’ tuqumauq ‘it is dead’
The pattern is not actually as complex as it first appears. In all derivations,
the absolutive argument of the base is the absolutive of the derived intrans-
itive. But what of the agentive ambitransitives, such as ‘eat’, for which the
92 Marianne Mithun
derived intransitive may be either the eater or the food eaten? As Jacobson
points out (1995), the two possibilities result from the ambitransitive status of
these stems. They have both agentive intransitive forms (ner’uq ‘he ate’) and
transitive forms (neraa ‘he ate it’). If the base of the derivation is assumed to
be the intransitive form, the pattern matches that of ‘leave’, and the absolutive
(‘he’) of the base remains the absolutive of the derived intransitive (‘he ate’
→ ‘he has eaten’). If the base of the derivation is assumed to be the transitive
form, the pattern matches that of ‘close’, and again the original absolutive is
retained as the absolutive of the derived intransitive (‘he ate it’ → ‘it has been
eaten’).
There has been considerable discussion in the literature on the primary
function of passives cross-linguistically, whether it is best viewed as the
demotion of an agent, the promotion of a patient, or a focus on the state
resulting from an action. An examination of the usage of Yup'ik -ma- shows
that it has only this third function: it focusses on the lasting resultant state of
the most significantly involved participant, the absolutive. It may or may not
alter argument structure. It is thus a resultative, in the sense of Nedjalkov
(1988). Like the adversative -cir-, it denotes the result of an action, rather
than an inherent condition. The verb in (22) for example, built on the base
essagte- ‘scatter’, was appropriate for beads spilt by someone knocking over
a jar, but it would not be used for rocks found here and there on a hillside.
(22) Resultant state: EA
essagte- ‘to scatter’
essagtuq ‘they are scattered’
essagcimaut ‘they (beads) are scattered’
In fact, the only semantic contribution of the suffix -ma- may be an emphasis
on the enduring time of the resultant state. Mrs Ali recounted that, while
waiting at the airport, she became so engrossed in her reading that she failed
to hear the announcement of her flight. She exclaimed:
(23) Length of state: EA
nanikuayartua uitaumalua
nanikuqa-yar-tu-a uita-uma-lu-a
be.distressed-would-indicative.intransitive-1sg stay-stative-sub-1sg
misvigmi
mit’e-vig-mi
alight-place-loc
I would have been distressed at having to stay a long time at the airport
As she viewed masks that had been collected by early Moravian missionaries
and sent to Europe, she mused:
Yup'ik 93
(24) Length of state: EA
cataicimalliniut kegginaguat
cataite-ima-llini-u-t kegginagur-et
be.absent-stative-apparently-indicative.intransitive-3pl mask-pl
The masks were apparently out there
avani nunani yaaqvani
ava-ni nuna-ni yaaqva-ni
over.there-loc land-loc area.far.away-loc
in some indefinite place for a long, long time
As can be seen, though both -cir- and -ma- might seem at first to function
as passives, in many cases converting a transitive stem into an intransitive
with just a patient, neither suffix serves the full range of functions expected
of prototypical passives. Both imply an event leading up to the resultant state
predicated, but neither necessarily produces a change in argument structure.
For this reason, neither is heavily utilized for syntactic or discourse functions.
The primary function of the suffix -cir- is to focus on the adversity of a
resultant state, and that of the suffix -ma- is to focus on its lasting effect. The
fact that their specific functions are distinct is confirmed by their ability to co-
occur within a single verb. The sentence in (25) was uttered by a speaker who
had been away travelling for some time. She returned home to find that all of
her dance wands (drumsticks) had been broken. The suffix -cir- emphasizes
the adversity, and the suffix -ma- emphasizes the time that had elapsed since
the breaking.
(25) Combination of adversative and lasting effect: EA
ayemcirtumaut
ayem-cir-te-uma-u-t
snap-get-causative-stative-indicative.intransitive-3pl
They’re all broken!
It should be noted that the various Eskimo-Aleut languages apparently show
different patterns in their uses of passive morphology (Tony Woodbury, p.c.;
Fortescue 1984: 265–8 on Greenlandic; and others). Comparison of gram-
mars of the modern languages suggests that they differ both in the forms of
the derivational suffixes and in their functions.
3.2 Patient omission
Yup'ik also contains several devices for eliminating semantic patients from
the set of core arguments of the clause, a function often termed ‘antipassive’.
A reduction in valency may be accomplished by inflection alone. Agentive
ambitransitive verbs like kitur- ‘to pass (someone/something)’ may simply be
inflected intransitively, with no mention of the person or object passed.
94 Marianne Mithun
(26) Intransitive inflection of agentive ambitransitive
kitur- ‘to pass’
kituraa ‘he passed him/her/it’ transitive
kiturtuq ‘he passed by’ intransitive
Examples of the use of the transitive and intransitive counterparts can be seen
in (27) and (28) respectively.
(27) Transitive inflection: EA
ayaginanerani-am una nasaurluyagaq
ayag-inaner-ani=am una nasaurlur-yagar
leave-past.contemporative-3sg=emphatic this girl-little
kitukii
kitur-ke-ii
pass-part.trans-3sg/3sg
As he was going, he passed a little girl
(28) Intransitive inflection: EA
una mikelnguq kitulria
una mikelnguq kitur-lria
this child pass-part.intransitive.3sg
A child passed by
This pattern of excluding semantic patients from the core by inflection
serves an important discourse function in Yup'ik. In Yup'ik, as in a num-
ber of ergative languages, there is a grammatical requirement that absolutive
arguments of transitives be identifiable (essentially definite; Mithun 1994).
Unidentifiable (indefinite) semantic patients must be cast as obliques. In Yup'ik,
the oblique category used for this purpose is the ablative. (The Eskimoan lan-
guages differ in this area.) An example of a nonspecific indefinite semantic
patient can be seen in (29). It is not represented in the pronominal suffix on
the verb, since it is not a core argument. The noun carries the ablative plural
case suffix -nek.
(29) Oblique indefinite patient: EA
niitaqluteng cali yugnek
niite-aqe-lu-teng cali yug-nek
hear-repeatedly-sub-3pl and person-pl.ablative
And they (absolutive) would hear people (ablative)
The noun ‘small bird’ in (30) is specific but still indefinite. It carries the
ablative singular suffix -mek and is also not represented in the pronominal
suffix complex -tek ‘they two’.
Yup'ik 95
(30) Oblique indefinite patient: GC
yaqulcuarmek-llu-gguq, pitellinilutek taukuk
yaqulek-cuar-mek=llu=gguq pite-llini-lu-tek tau-kuk
bird-little-ablative=also=hearsay catch.game-apparently-sub-3du that-du
And it seems they (absolutive) must have caught a small bird (ablative)
Sentential complements are not sufficiently definite to be cast as core
arguments.
(31) Oblique sentential complement: EA
Maaten tangerrtuq, iliit
maaten tangerr-tu-q ila-it
suddenly see-indicative.intransitive-3sg one.of-3sg/pl
issratet cataunani
issrate-t cataite-na-ni
basket-pl absent-sub-3sg
Suddenly he (absolutive) noticed (intransitive) [that one of the baskets
was gone]
Once introduced, participants are immediately eligible for absolutive status.
In (32), the pears were indefinite when they were first introduced into the
discourse (‘this man was picking pears’), so they appeared in the ablative
case. As soon as they were introduced, however, they could be considered
definite, and so were eligible for absolutive status (‘putting them into a basket,
arranging them carefully’).
(32) Shift to identifiable and core status: EA
ciungani-gguq una angun, napami, atsanek
ciu-ngani=gguq una angute napa-mi atsar-nek
front-3sg/3sg.loc=hearsay this man tree-loc fruit-pl.ablative
In the beginning this man, in a tree,
iqvalria, atsarpagnek, issramun
iqvar-lria atsar-rpag-nek issrate-mun
pick-part.intransitive.3sg fruit-very.large-pl.ablative basket-allative
was picking pears (ablative), large pears (ablative),
elliluki, pinqeggcarluki
elli-lu-ki pinqegg-car-lu-ki
put-sub-r/3pl neat-try-sub-r/3pl
putting them (absolutive) into a basket, arranging them (absolutive)
carefully
Because of the grammatical restriction against indefinite absolutives,
most transitive stems, particularly those that might co-occur with indefinite
patients in discourse, have some intransitive counterpart. As we saw above,
96 Marianne Mithun
agentive ambitransitives like ‘pass by’ may simply be inflected intransitively
for this purpose. But transitive-only stems have no intransitive counterparts.
(33) Transitive only
ikayur- ‘to help’
ikayuraa ‘he is helping her’ transitive
(no *ikayurtuq)
The patientive ambitransitives, such as ‘cut fish for drying’, do have intrans-
itive counterparts, but their single argument is the semantic patient, the very
participant that should be excluded from the core by an antipassive.
(34) Intransitive inflection of patientive ambitransitive
ulligte- ‘to cut fish for drying in the traditional manner’
ulligtaa ‘she cut it for drying’ transitive
ulligtuq ‘it is cut for drying’ intransitive
Yet it would seem that speakers would want to use verbs such as these with
indefinite semantic patients as well, in order to say such things as ‘she’s
helping out’ or ‘she cut things’.
Such expressions are made possible by two derivational detransitivizers,
-(u)te- and -(g)i-, originally termed by Kleinschmidt ‘half transitives’. They
function as derivational antipassives, eliminating the semantic patient from
the set of core arguments.
(35) Derivational detransitivizers -(u)te-, -(g)i-
ikayur- ‘to help’
ikayuraa ‘she helped him’ transitive only
ikayuut-uq ‘she is helping out’ derived intransitive
ulligte- ‘to cut fish for drying’ patientive transitive
ulligt-aa ‘she cut it (the fish)’ transitive
ulligci-uq ‘she cut fish for drying’ derived intransitive
Use of the first detransitivizer with another transitive-only base can be seen
in (36).
(36) Detransitivized transitive-only
tegu- ‘to take’
– (no basic intransitive *teguuq)
tegua ‘he took it’
tegutuq ‘he took (something)’
Use of the second detransitivizer with another patientive ambitransitive can
be seen in (37).
Yup'ik 97
(37) Detransitivized patientive ambitransitive: GC
camiliini tuai maurluqa
camiliini tuai maurluq-ka
sometimes and grandmother-1sg/3sg
And sometimes my grandmother
ulligcinaurtuq
ulligte-i-naur-tu-q
cut.fish-detransitivizer-hab-indicative.intransitive-3sg
luqruuyanek
luqruuyag-nek [ . . . ]
pike-pl.abl
would cut up pike [and make Eskimo ice cream]
The diachronic source of these two detransitivizers is interesting. Jacobson
(1984: 453) traces -(u)te- to a benefactive and -(g)i- to a malefactive. In
transitive benefactive constructions, the benefactor appears in the ergative
case and the beneficiary in the absolutive.
(38) Benefactive -ute-
quuyurnitaa
quuyurni-ute-a-a
smile-benefactive-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
He (ergative) is smiling at her (absolutive)
In malefactive transitives, the ergative argument acts to the disadvantage of
the absolutive.
(39) Transitive malefactive (Jacobson 1995: 134):
qimugtem neria angun
qimugte-m nere-i-a-a angun
dog-ergative eat-malefactive-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg man
akutamek
akutar-mek
mixture-ablative
The dog (ergative) ate some dried fish on the man (absolutive) (ate the
man’s fish)
It might be wondered how applicative morphemes like the benefactive and
malefactive, whose primary function is to increase the valency of a stem,
could evolve into detransitivizers. The evolution is explicable in terms of the
Yup'ik transitivity classes. The applicatives can derive agentive ambitransitives.
When the agentive ambitransitives are inflected intransitively, they leave just
an agent absolutive as the only core argument. This result is the essence of
antipassivation. Thus for the basic transitive-only root ikayur- ‘help’, there
can be no intransitive inflection, but benefactive derivation can yield an
98 Marianne Mithun
agentive ambitransitive: ikayur-ute- → ikayuute- ‘help to the benefit of’. The
derived stem can then be inflected intransitively, leaving the helper as the
only core argument: ikayuutuq ‘she is helping out’, the desired result. Some
semantic motivation can be imagined behind the alternation of the benefactive
and malefactive suffixes in this function: helping is usually to the benefit of
someone, while cutting up fish is to the detriment of the fish. In general,
however, the alternation between the two suffixes in this function is now a
lexical matter, not necessarily semantically transparent.
4 Valency-increasing derivation
Yup'ik contains an extensive set of valency-increasing suffixes. Some are
common cross-linguistically, such as the causatives, and some are less com-
mon, as will be seen. The Yup'ik causative system is somewhat unusual in its
elaboration and its pervasive syntactic use.
4.1 Causatives
A number of causatives are built into the lexicon. Many patientive ambi-
transitives show a causative relationship between their intransitive and transitive
forms, such as akngirte- ‘get hurt’, ‘hurt someone’. Causation is automatic-
ally indicated by the transitive inflection.
(40) Causative patientive ambitransitive
akngirte- ‘to get hurt (intr), to hurt someone (tr)’
akngirt-uq ‘he got hurt’ intransitive
akngirt-aa ‘he hurt her’ transitive
There is also a substantial set of derivational causatives, most with slightly
specialized meanings. The nature of the differences among them is not what
might be expected, in that they often do not distinguish the degree of compul-
sion involved.
(41) Derivational causatives
-vkar-/-cete- ‘let, allow, permit, cause, compel’
-te- ‘let, allow, cause, compel’
-nar- ‘cause’
-rqe- ‘intentionally or deliberately cause’
-cetaar- ‘try to cause’
-narqe- ‘tend to cause’
-naite- ‘tend not to cause’
-cir- ‘let, wait for, make’
-(r/l)i- ‘become or cause to become’
Yup'ik 99
The most general causative has phonologically conditioned variants -vkar-/
-cete- (-vkar- after vowels, -cete- after consonants). It is used for a full range
of causation, from allowing to compelling. All of the causatives appear on
both intransitive and transitive bases.
(42) ‘permit’: EC
alularcecungramku
alular-cet-yug-ngrar-mku [ . . . ]
operate.motor-permit-want-concessive-1sg/3sg
Even if I wanted to let him to operate the motor [Daddy would not ask him]
(43) ‘invite’: EA
nerevkarluki-llu tamalkuita yuut
nere-vkar-lu-ki=llu tamalkuita yug-et
eat-cause-sub-r/3pl=too all person-pl
and they gave a feast for everyone (lit. And they made everyone eat)
(44) ‘let’, ‘make’: EA
igtevkaraa
igte-vkar-aa
fall-cause-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
He made her fall / He dropped it
(45) ‘make’: EC
qeralivkarluku-ll’
qer’aq-li-vkar-lu-ku=llu
fishrack-make-cause-sub-r/3sg=too
and I made him build fish racks
(46) ‘force’: GC
tuai-q’, ilateng, anevkangnaqluki . . .
tuai=wa ila-teng ane-vkar-ngnaqe-lu-ki
and.then=emphatic relative-r/3pl go.out-compel-try-sub-r/3pl
They would try to force their relatives out
A second causative -te- contributes the same range of meanings: ‘let’,
‘allow’, ‘cause’, ‘compel’. Its alternation with -vkar-/-cete- appears to be lexic-
ally conditioned.
(47) Causative -te-: EA
uitasenga
uita-te-nga
stay-let-opt.2sg/1sg
Leave me alone!
100 Marianne Mithun
A third causative is no longer productive, but it appears in a number of
verbs and nouns:
(48) Non-productive -nar- ‘cause’, ‘one that causes’ (Jacobson 1984: 502):
kenegnartuq qatlinaq
keneg-nar-tu-q qatli-nar
love-cause-indicative.intransitive-3sg sting-cause
She is lovely nettle
The causatives themselves may be causativized.
(49) Causative of causative: EA
igtevkartaanga
igte-vkar-te-a-anga
fall-cause-cause-indicative.transitive-3sg/1sg
He made me drop it
Additional causative suffixes contribute slightly different shades of mean-
ing. The suffix -rqe- includes a component of intention:
(50) -rqe- ‘deliberately cause’ (Jacobson 1984: 549):
(a) qia- ‘cry’
qiarqaa ‘he intentionally made her cry’ (qiavkaraa ‘he made her cry’)
(b) tupag- ‘wake’
tupagqaa ‘he woke her up intentionally’
The causative -cir- indicates causation without direct effort, by waiting and
allowing something to happen.
(51) -cir- ‘let, wait for’: EC
(a) anlluki kinercirluki
ane-te-lu-ki kiner-cir-lu-ki
go.out-with-sub-r/3pl dry-wait.for-sub-r/3pl
. . . they would take them out and wait for them to dry
(b) tuntuviit, anerciraqluki
tuntuvag-et aner-cir-aqe-lu-ki
moose-pl exit-wait-would-sub-r/3pl
We would wait for the moose to go out
Several causatives with more specific meanings have been formed from the
compounding of two suffixes. The suffix -cetaar- ‘try to cause’ is descended
from the causative -cete- followed by a suffix -aar- ‘repeatedly’ (Jacobson
1984: 439).
Yup'ik 101
(52) -cetaar- ‘try to cause’: EC
naucetaarvigtun
nau-cetaar-vig-tun
grow-try.to.cause-place-aequalis
like a place to try to grow things
ayuqelartut
ayuqe-lar-tu-t
be.alike-habitually-indicative.intransitive-3pl
they are the same as
They are like flower pots
Another causative -narqe- was formed from a combination of the two causatives
-nar- and -rqe- (Jacobson 1984: 505). It adds the meaning ‘tend to cause’.
(53) -narqe- ‘tend to cause’ on intransitive: EC
aling epsalngunarqellrullini-wall’
aling epe-yar-lngu-narqe-llru-llini=wall’
oh.my suffocate-would-be.indisposed.from-tend.to.cause-past-
apparently=emphatic
oh my it was apparently very tedious
It sure was tedious! (epesalngu- ‘to feel bad because of lack of fresh air’)
(54) -narqe- ‘tend to cause’ on agentive ambitransitive: EA
ircinrrat irr’inarqut
ircinrrar-t ir’i-narqe-u-t
little.people-pl stare-tend.to.cause-indicative.intransitive-3pl
The Little People are to be marvelled at
It often occurs with what are termed ‘emotional’ roots by Jacobson.
(55) -narqe- ‘tend to cause’ with emotional root: GC
anglanarqelallruuq,
angla-narqe-lar-llru-u-q
be.fun-tend.to.cause-habitually-past-indicative.intransitive-3sg
akakiignek, qalulleq
akakiig-nek qalu-ller
whitefish-pl.abl dip-past.nominalizer
It used to be fun dipnetting whitefish
It has a negative counterpart -naite- ‘tend not to cause’, formed from a
combination of -nar- and the negative -(ng)ite- (Jacobson 1984: 502).
(56) -naite- ‘tend not to cause’: EA
takumcunaituq
takumcu-nait-u-q
pity-tend.not.to.cause-indicative.intransitive-3sg
He does not engender pity
Finally, causative meaning can be added by a suffix -(r/l)i- whose function
is primarily inchoative: ‘become or cause to become’.
102 Marianne Mithun
(57) -(r/l)i- ‘cause to become’: GC
uqnariqapiarluku camiliini-llu yuut.
uqnarqe-i-qapiar-lu-ku camiliini=llu yug-et
burning.hot-make-very-sub-r/3sg sometimes=also person-pl.erg
And sometimes the people would make it (the steambath) very hot
4.1.1 The fate of extra arguments
When a causative is added to an intransitive verb, the causer is expressed as
an ergative, and the causee or secondary agent, that is the one caused to act,
appears as the absolutive.
(58) Secondary agent of intransitive is absolutive: EA; EA (elicited)
(a) tutgara’urluq tauna ayavkaqii
tutgarar-urluq tauna ayag-vkar-ke-ii
grandchild-dear that go-allow-part.tr-3sg/3sg
He (ergative) allowed the grandchild (absolutive) to leave
(b) aipama mingqevkaraanga
aipar-ma mingqe-vkar-a-anga
spouse-1sg/3sg.erg sew-cause-indicative.transitive-3sg/1sg
qerrulliigminek
qerrullii-gminek
pant-3rsg/3du.abl
My husband (ergative) had me (absolutive) sew his pants (ablative)
When the caused action is transitive, the intermediate agent (causee) is not
a core argument. The core arguments are the causer (ergative) and the entity
ultimately affected (absolutive). The intermediate agent, the causee, may be
identified by an allative nominal.
(59) Secondary agent of transitive is allative: GC; EA (elicited)
(a) ciin yungcaristamun kitugtevkarluku pillrunritececiu
ciin yugngecarista-mun kitugte-vkar-lu-ku pi-llru-nrite-ce-ciu
why doctor-allative repair-cause-sub-r/3sg do-past-neg-q-2du/3sg
Why didn’t you (ergative) get him (absolutive) fixed by the doctor
(allative)?
(b) angutem paniminun
angute-m panig-minun
man-erg daughter-3r.sg/3sg.allative
mingqevkarak
mingqe-vkar-a-k
sew-cause-indicative.transitive-3sg/3du
The man (ergative) asked his daughter (allative) to sew them (his pants
(absolutive du))
Yup'ik 103
4.1.2 The syntactic function of causatives
Among the inflectional moods in Yup'ik is one termed the ‘subordinative’.
The Yup'ik subordinative does much more than mark syntactically sub-
ordinate clauses within sentences. It also links sentences over stretches of
discourse. It serves to relate sentences, which may be intonationally inde-
pendent, on a higher level of structure, such as sequences of events in nar-
rative, as in (60). There is a grammatical requirement on such sequences:
subordinatives must show the same subject as the main clause (glossed as
the coreferential r).
(60) Subordinative mood: EC
kiagmi uksurpailegan, ayunek
kiag-mi uksur-paileg-an ayut-nek
summer-loc be.winter-precessive-3sg Labrador.tea-pl.abl
in summer before winter Labrador tea
pit’lallruuq waten
pite-lar-llru-u-q waten
hunt-habitually-past-indicative.intransitive-3sg like.this
she used to pick (indicative) this way
amllerivkenaki qillertagluki.
amller-i-vke-na-ki qillerte-aqe-lu-ki
be.many-making-not-sub-r/3pl tie-habitually-sub-r/3pl
not making many (subordinative) tying them together (subordinative)
enemun agartaqluki, tuai-ll’ tamakut
ena-mun agar-te-aqe-lu-ki tuai=llu tama-kut
house-all hang-cause-habitually-sub-r/3pl then=and those-pl
to the house hanging them (subordinative) and then those
agiireskata, atauciin
agiirte-ku-ata atauciq-in
approach.from.distance-cond-3pl one-3sg/3pl.erg
when they arrived (conditional) one of them
teguluki, kumarrlukik amiigem-llu
tegu-lu-ki kumarte-lu-ki amiig-m=llu
grasp-sub-r/3pl light-sub-r/3pl door-erg=also
taking them (subordinative) lighting them (subordinative) and the door
ciuqranun nangertevkarlua tarvarlua
ciuqerr-anun nangerte-vkar-lu-a tarvar-lu-a
front-3sg/3sg.all stand-cause-sub-r/1sg bless-sub-r/1sg
in front of it having me stand (subord) blessing me (subord).
‘In the summertime, before winter, she (my grandmother) used to pick
Labrador tea leaves. She would tie them together this way, not very many of
them. She would let them hang inside the house. Then when those people
104 Marianne Mithun
were arriving (people invited to a potlatch), she would take one of the
bundles, light it, and have me stand in the doorway, blessing me.’
(In spontaneous speech, the controlling sentence is not always overt.) The
fact that subject coreference is a grammatical requirement can be seen in the
unambiguous interpretation of sentences like that in (61).
(61) Subject continuity in subordinatives: EA
wangakii ayagluni
tanvag-ke-ii ayag-lu-ni
look.at-participial.tr-3sg/3sg leave-subordinative-3sg
He watched her as he went
The pattern of linking clauses that share the same subject, or mental point
of departure, is not surprising. They are portrayed as elements of a larger dis-
course unit. On occasion, however, a clause might be considered an integral
component of this unit, but involve a different subject. It is here that the
causatives are exploited for purely syntactic purposes. In the third line of (60)
above, for example, the essential message might have been ‘She would tie
them together, they were not many’. Instead of making the tea-leaves the
subject of the second clause, however, Mrs Charles retained her grandmother
as subject by adding the suffix -i- ‘make, cause’: ‘She tied them together, not
making them many’. Causatives can maintain subject continuity by adding a
causer that is coreferential with the rest of the sequence. In the last line of
(60), rather than ‘I would stand in the doorway and she would bless me’ with
different subjects ‘I’ and ‘she’, Mrs Charles used a causative: ‘She would
have me stand in the doorway and (she) would bless me’.
These uses of the causative in (60) seem quite natural, a way the events
might have been expressed regardless of the syntactic requirement of
coreference. In some contexts, however, the purely syntactic function of the
causative is clear, as in (62) from Jacobson.
(62) Causative in purely syntactic function (Jacobson 1995: 333):
yuurtellruunga apa’urluqa
yug-urte-llru-u-nga apalur-ka
person-become-past-indicative.intransitive-1sg grandfather-1sg/3sg
I was born my grandfather
tuqurraarcelluku
tuqu-rraar-cete-lu-ku
die-first-allow-sub-r/3sg
I let him die first
I was born after my grandfather died
Of course I could not cause or even allow the death of my grandfather before
I was born.
Yup'ik 105
A detail adding a final complication to the picture is the fact that purely
syntactic causative suffixes are sometimes omitted in natural speech. Their
effect is still observable in the argument structures of the pertinent verbs,
however, as can be seen in the pronominal suffix ‘one/her’ on ‘go by boat’
in (63).
(63) Omission of purely causative suffixes: EC
natmun ayagteciiqaa
nat-mun ayag-te-ciiq-a-a
where-all go-cause-fut-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
angyarluku.
angyar-(0)-lu-ku
go.by.boat-(cause)-sub-r/3sg
She will be allowed to go somewhere with a boat.
4.2 Other agent addition
In addition to the causatives, Yup'ik contains a more unusual set of valency-
increasing derivations that add an agent to the set of core arguments. These
are suffixes with meanings something like those of evidentials in certain other
languages, but they differ significantly in that they alter argument structure.
The suffixes are -sqe- ‘request that, want’, -ni- ‘claim, say that’ -yuke- ‘think
that’ and -nayuke- ‘think that perhaps, expect’.
4.2.1 -sqe- ‘request that, want’
The suffix -sqe- can be added to both intransitive and transitive bases. When
added to intransitives, it derives a transitive verb whose ergative argument is
the person requesting, and absolutive argument is the person requested to
act.
(64) Derivation from intransitive base: EC; NC
(a) yungcaristem tagesqaten
yungcarista-m tage-sqe-a-ten
doctor-erg go.up/inland-request-indic.tr-3sg/2sg
The doctor (ergative) has asked you (absolutive) to go (to the hospital)
(b) uyangterraresqeluku pitangqertassiarluku
uyangte-rrar-sqe-lu-ku pitar-ngqerr-tassiar-lu-ku
look.leaning.forward-first-ask-sub-r/3sg game-have-determine-sub-r/3sg
(You (ergative)) have him (absolutive) look to see if there is game
When the suffix -sqe- is attached to a transitive base, it yields a transitive
verb whose ergative participant requests action on the absolutive by the allative
participant.
106 Marianne Mithun
(65) Derivation from transitive base: EC; EA (elicited)
(a) tutraragka, aipak piyugngakan,
tutrar-gka apia-k pi-yugnga-aqa-an
grandchild-1sg/3du.abl other-du do-able-contingent-3sg
my two grandchildren one of them if he is able to do
When I arrive, I (ergative) will have one of my grandchildren (allative)
tekiteqataquma, pairrsaagesqellua
tekite-qatar-qu-ma pairte-ssaag-sqe-lu-a
arrive-going.to-cond-1sg meet-try-ask-sub-r/1sg
when I am going to arrive asking him to come meet me
try to meet me (absolutive) if he can
(b) anngama paniminun
anngar-ma panig-minun
older.brother-1sg/3sg.erg daughter-3r.sg/3sg.all
atuutesqai
atur-ute-sqe-a-i
sing-for-ask-indicative.transitive-3sg/3pl
My older brother (ergative) asked his daughter (allative) to sing for
them (absolutive)
4.2.2 -ni- ‘claim, say that’, -yuke- ‘think that’ and -nayuke- ‘think that
perhaps’
The suffixes -ni-, -yuke- and -nayuke- can be added to both intransitive and
transitive bases. Any of the derived verbs can then be inflected either intrans-
itively or transitively. In all of these constructions, the absolutive argument of
the base remains as the absolutive argument of the derived verb. Intransitive
inflection indicates that someone is claiming or thinking something about
himself or herself.
(66) Intransitive from intransitive: EA (elicited)
(a) kaigniuq
kaig-ni-u-q
hungry-claim-indicative.intransitive-3sg
She (absolutive) says she’s hungry
(b) kaigyukuq
kaig-yuke-u-q
be.hungry-think-indicative.intransitive-3sg
She (absolutive) thinks she’s hungry
If someone else is making the claim or having the thought, the verb is inflected
transitively, with the claimer or thinker in the ergative case.
Yup'ik 107
(67) Transitive from intransitive: GC (elicited)
(a) kaignia
kaig-ni-a-a
hungry-claim-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
She (ergative) says he (absolutive) is hungry
(b) kainayukeluki ukliuq
kaig-nayuke-lu-ki ukli-u-q
hungry-think.maybe-sub-r/3pl cut.up-indicative.intransitive-3sg
She is preparing food, (she (ergative)) thinking they (absolutive) might
be hungry
(There is no gender distinction. Different genders are used here in the free
translations simply to keep reference clear.)
If the claim or thought is about a transitive action, the agent of that act can
be identified by a noun in the allative case.
(68) Intransitive from transitive (Jacobson 1995: 324):
arnaq ikayullruniuq angutmun
arnaq ikayu-llru-ni-u-q angute-mun
woman help-past-claim-indicative.intransitive-3sg man-allative
The woman (absolutive) says that the man (allative) helped her
(69) Transitive from transitive (Jacobson 1995: 326):
aatavnun civtellruyukaqa kuvyaq
aata-vnun civte-llru-yuke-ar-ka kuvyar
father-2sg/3sg.all set-past-think-indicative.transitive-1sg/3sg net
I (ergative) think your father (allative) set the fishnet (absolutive)
4.2.3 Syntactic usage
The derivational suffixes of requesting, claiming and thinking add an agent
argument, much like the causatives do. They are exploited in the same way as
causatives to ensure the maintenance of subject coreference in subordinative
sequences, especially with verbs of requesting, speaking and thinking. Thus
rather than saying ‘Theyi invited the Yup'ik people (themj) to come to their
house’, Mrs Ali used a derived request form: ‘Theyi invited themj, theyi
requesting them to come’.
(70) Request for intransitive action with -sqe-: EA
yuut kelellinikait, enitnun
yug-et keleg-llini-ke-ait ena-it-nun
person-pl invite-apparently-part.tr-3pl/3pl house-3pl/sg-all
ayasqeluki
ayag-sqe-lu-ki
go-request-sub-r/3pl
It seems they invited the Yup'ik people to come to their house
108 Marianne Mithun
The same strategy is used with transitives. Rather than saying ‘He requested
that she sing-for them’, Mrs Ali volunteered ‘He requested her, he asking
(her) to sing-for them’.
(71) Request for transitive action with -sqe-: EA (elicited)
elliimeraa atuutesqeluuki
ellimer-a-a atur-ute-sqe-lu-ki
request-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg sing-for-ask-sub-r/3pl
He ordered her to sing for them
The same strategy can be seen with -ni- ‘claim’ in (72). Rather than saying
‘When we were about to stop playing tag, the one who was it was the win-
ner’, Mrs Charles said, ‘When we were about to stop playing tag, we would
proclaim the one who was the winner’.
(72) Claiming with -ni-: EC
taqekugtaqamta piaqluta una-llu
taqe-kugte-aqa-mta pi-aqe-lu-ta una=llu
stop-about.to-contingent-1pl do-habitually-sub-1pl this=and
when we were about to stop we would say and this one
taqvailemta agturcitenritelleq
taqe-vaileg-mta agtur-cir-te-nrite-ller
quit-precessive-1pl touch-get-applicative-not-past.nominalizer
before we stopped the one who had not been touched
qalliniluku
qalli-ni-lu-ku
one.on.top-claim-sub-r/3sg
we claimed him/her winner
And when we were about to stop (playing tag), we would say that the one
who had not been touched before we stopped was the winner
5 Applicatives
Yup'ik contains several applicative suffixes that function to derive transitives
by adding an absolutive argument. The base may be either intransitive or
transitive. The most productive applicative is the general -(u)te- ‘to, for, with,
together, reciprocally’. Its precise function depends on the meaning of the
verb to which it is attached.
(73) Verbs of communication: ‘to’ EA
uumiku qalaruciiqamken
uumiku qalarte-ute-ciiqe-ar-mken
next.time talk-to-future-indic.tr-1sg/2sg
I’ll talk to you later
Yup'ik 109
(74) Benefactive ‘for’: EC
kalukaulluta unuaquani
kalukar-ute-lu-ta unuaqu-ani
hold.feast-for-sub-r/1pl next.day-3sg/3sg.abl
They made us a Kalukaq the next day
(75) Verbs of motion: comitative ‘with’ EA
eliin ayaullua
elliin ayag-ute-lu-a
3sg.erg go-with-sub-r/1sg
He took me with him
The applicative is also used with dual or plural intransitive inflection to
derive reciprocals.
(76) Intransitive applicative for reciprocal: EC
anguyautellratni, . . .
anguyag-ute-tu-ller-atni
fight.in.battle-with.each.other-customarily-past.contemporative-3pl
When they used to fight each other = when there were wars . . .
If the base is transitive, the semantic patient may be overtly identified by an
ablative noun.
(77) Semantic patient as ablative: EC
aaniin-wa qanrutelallrulliki
aana-an=wa qanr-ute-lar-llru-li-ki
mother-3sg/3sg.erg=emphatic say-to-habitually-past-opt.tr-3sg/3pl
her mother she used to tell her
I guess her mother used to tell her
ilallrin atritnek
ila-ller-in ater-itnek
relative-past-r/3pl.erg name-3pl/pl.abl
her relatives that used to be their names
the names (ablative) of her deceased relatives
As seen earlier, Yup'ik also contains a malefactive suffix -(g)i-. The trans-
itive malefactive in (39) is from Jacobson (1995). More usual for the Charles
family are intransitive malefactives.
(78) Intransitive malefactive: EA
tulukarulkuk neriulkugtur-am
tulukarug-lkug nere-i-ur-lkug-tu-r=am
raven-despicable eat-malefactive–purposely-despicably-
indicative.intransitive-3sg-emphatic
That darned raven (absolutive) is deliberately eating food intended for
someone else
110 Marianne Mithun
The victim may be expressed obliquely by a nominal in the ablative case. The
sentence in (79) came up in the context of a man digging on the tundra, who
uncovered a cache of roots stored by mice.
(79) Ablative victim of malefactive: EA
elagiuq avelnganek
elag-i-u-q avelngar-nek
dig-malefactive-indicative.intranstive-3sg mouse-pl.ablative
He (absolutive) dug to the disadvantage of the mice (ablative)
As seen in section 3.2, when this suffix is attached to a transitive-only base
like ‘help’, or a patientive ambitransitive like ‘cut up’, it functions primarily
as an antipassive, usually without malefactive sense. When it is attached to an
intransitive-only base such as ayag- ‘leave’ or ane- ‘go out’, it again shows
its original malefactive sense, but the absolutive argument of the derived
malefactive is the victim.
(80) Malefactive on intransitive-only: absolutive victim (Jacobson 1984: 452):
[While he was boating in rough water,]
aniuq kevingutnek
ane-i-u-q kevirngut-nek
go.out-malefactive-indicative.intransitive-3sg caulk-pl.ablative
his caulking came out (of the boat)
(lit. he (absolutive) was de-caulked by caulking (ablative))
Two other applicative suffixes have been formed by suffix compounding.
One of these is -(u)teke- ‘on account of, concerning’.
(81) -(u)teke- ‘on account of, concerning’: EA
tuai-w’, naurrlugaan
tuai=wa naurrlug-a-an
because=well ill-consequential-3sg
unegutkaa
unegte-uteke-a-a
remain.behind-on.account.of-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
Well, she remained behind because of him, since he was sick
The other is -(u)cite- ‘in place of, instead of’.
(82) -(u)cite- ‘in place of, instead of’ (Jacobson 1984: 446):
(a) yuracitaa
yurar-cite-a-a
dance-in.place.of-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg
He danced in her place
Yup'ik 111
(b) cikircitaa avukamek
cikir-cite-a-a avukar-mek
give.to-in.place.of-indicative.transitive-3sg/3sg supplement-abl
She is giving bread to eat with tea in his place
Mrs Ali notes that this construction is used often because a child named for a
deceased person carries out actions on behalf of that person, in memory of
him or her.
6 Summary
The rich inventory of valency-changing devices in Central Alaskan Yup'ik
shows us some interesting ways in which such devices may vary cross-
linguistically, both in their semantic detail and in their syntactic and dis-
course functions.
The effects of such devices are particularly clear in Yup'ik, due to the
unusually explicit marking of argument structure. The indicative and parti-
cipial mood suffixes on verbs show distinct transitive and intransitive forms,
and all core arguments are specified by pronominal suffixes. The pronominal
suffixes, which have now become fused complexes, show traces of an absolut-
ive category in some moods (indicative, participial) but traces of a subject
category in others (subordinative, connective). In addition, nouns are inflected
for case. Noun case marking follows a clear ergative pattern.
Yup'ik contains both inflectional and derivational valency-decreasing
morphology. Several devices can result in the elimination of a semantic agent
from the set of core arguments of a clause, a function typically associated
with passives. With one class of verbs, the patientive ambitransitives, a passive-
like effect may be accomplished by simple intransitive inflection. For other
verbs, only derivational suffixes can have such an effect. The uses of the
suffixes reveal, however, that their primary function is not to alter argument
structure but rather to focus on the state resulting from an action. One suffix,
-cir-, contributes adversative meaning; the other, -ma-, emphasizes the lengthy
quality of the resultant state. The two suffixes may affect case relations incid-
entally, but perhaps because that is not their primary function, they are not
generally exploited for syntactic or discourse purposes.
By contrast, several antipassive-like devices play an important syntactic
role. Yup'ik has a syntactic requirement that only identifiable (definite) argu-
ments may serve as the absolutives of transitives. Events directed at indefinite
patients must be expressed with grammatically intransitive verbs. With one
class of verbs, the agentive ambitransitives, intransitive inflection alone is
112 Marianne Mithun
sufficient: the resulting verb has only a single agentive argument. With other
transitives, the derivational suffixes -(u)te- and -(g)i-, descended from a bene-
factive and a malefactive respectively, are used as detransitivizers.
Yup'ik also contains a substantial inventory of valency-increasing devices.
The language is unusually rich in morphology that adds agents to the set of
core arguments, with a rich set of causatives and another set of suffixes with
evidential-like meanings. Some causatives are produced inflectionally. Many
patientive ambitransitives show a causative relation between their alternate
forms, such as katag- ‘drop/fall’. Transitive inflection alone yields a causative.
For other verbs, causatives are formed derivationally. The set of causative
suffixes is large, and provides fine semantic distinctions: -vkar-, -te-, -nar-
‘let, allow, permit, cause, compel’; -cir- ‘let, wait for, make’; -rqe- ‘intention-
ally or deliberately cause’; -cetaar- ‘try to cause’; -narqe- ‘tend to cause’;
-naite- ‘tend not to cause’; and -(r/l)i- ‘become or cause to become’. A
second set of derivational suffixes add evidential-like meanings: -sqe- ‘re-
quest that, want’; -ni- ‘claim that’; -yuke- ‘think that’; -nayuke- ‘think that
perhaps’. All of these derivational suffixes may be added to either intransitive
or transitive bases. All serve an important syntactic function. Sequences of
topically related sentences in Yup'ik are frequently linked in discourse
with the subordinative mood. There is a grammatical requirement that all
sentences so linked must share the same subject. The causative and evidential
agent-adding suffixes are exploited to ensure the maintenance of subject
continuity over such sequences. If a linked clause would not otherwise have
a coreferent subject, one may be added as the causer, requester, claimer or
thinker. (Causatives with a similar function have also been noted in the Pomoan
languages of California, in Chechen and Ingush of the Caucasus, and in
Coptic (Oswalt 1977, Nichols 1985, O’Connor 1992).)
Finally, Yup'ik contains several applicatives that serve to add an absolutive
argument. The general applicative -(u)te- ‘to, for, with, together, reciprocally’
is pervasive. The malefactive -(g)i- ‘to the detriment of’ is rarer. Two more
suffixes have come into the language through suffix compounding, -(u)teke-
‘on account of, concerning’ and -(u)cite- ‘in place of, instead of’. All of these
markers function to a certain extent to allow more topical participants, usu-
ally humans, to be expressed as part of the core, specified by the pronominal
suffixes on the verb.
All of the valency-changing devices may result in the expression of semantic
agents or patients outside of the core, with oblique nominals. Passives can
result in the exclusion of semantic agents from the core, and antipassives in
the exclusion of semantic patients. Valency-increasing processes can result in
Yup'ik 113
the exclusion of certain arguments as well. When they are applied to bases
that are already transitive, one of the original core arguments is displaced.
With causatives and the evidential-like suffixes, the displaced argument is the
intermediate agent. With benefactives and malefactives, the excluded argument
is the semantic patient. In Yup'ik, the excluded arguments are handled in a
systematic way. Semantic agents are expressed obliquely as allatives, and
semantic patients as ablatives.
Valency-changing devices in Yup'ik are numerous, pervasive and often
highly productive, but they are not simple mechanical operations. All are
closely tied to the lexicon in one way or another. Of course some manip-
ulation of argument structure is accomplished by simple lexical choice. The
inflectional devices for altering argument structure are dependent on the
transitivity class of individual lexical items (intransitive-only, transitive-only,
agentive ambitransitive, patientive ambitransitive). The derivational devices
are closely tied to the lexicon as well: they create lexical items that are stored
and recognized as units by speakers. In many cases, such as with causatives
and antipassives, suffix choice is simply a lexical matter, not predictable
by general rule. At the same time, the valency-changing morphology serves
important syntactic functions, ensuring that indefinite semantic patients are
expressed outside of the set of core arguments, and preserving subject-
continuity across subordinative sequences. The morphology also serves a
discourse function, allowing speakers to cast important participants as core
arguments, as with applicatives. The Yup'ik system, like that of most lan-
guages, shows the importance of considering the individual devices exploited
for the manipulation of argument structure within the context of the language
as a whole.
References
Egede, P. 1750. Dictionarium Grönlandico–Danico–Latinum. Copenhagen.
1760. Grammatica Grönlandica–Danico–Latina. Copenhagen.
Fortescue, M. 1984. West Greenlandic. London: Croom Helm.
Fox, B. and Hopper, P.J. (eds.) 1994. Voice: form and function, Typological studies in
language 27. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Jacobson, S.A. 1984. Yup'ik Eskimo dictionary. Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language
Center, University of Alaska.
1995. A practical grammar of the Central Alaskan Yup'ik Eskimo language.
Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language Center, University of Alaska.
Kleinschmidt, S. 1851. Grammatik der grönländischen Sprache. Berlin. Reprinted
1968 in Hildesheim: Georg Olms Verlagsbuchhandlung.
114 Marianne Mithun
Mithun, M. 1994. ‘The implications of ergativity for a Philippine voice system’,
pp. 247–77 of Fox and Hopper 1994.
(ed.) 1996. Prosody, grammar, and discourse in Central Alaskan Yup'ik. Santa
Barbara Papers in Linguistics 7. University of California.
Miyaoka, O. 1984. ‘On the so-called half-transitive verbs in Eskimo’, Etudes/inuit/
studies 8, supplement issue: ‘The Central Yup'ik Eskimos’ (Département
d’anthropologie, Université Laval, Quebec), pp. 193–218.
1987. ‘Ergativity in Eskimo (Central Alaskan Yupik)’, Memoirs of the Research
Department of the Toyo Bunko 45 (Tokyo: The Toyo Bunko). 25–51.
1996. ‘Sketch of Central Alaskan Yupik, an Eskimoan language’, pp. 325–63 of
Handbook of North American Indians, Vol. XVII: Languages, ed. I. Goddard.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.
1997. ‘A chapter on the Alaskan Central Yupik subordinative mood’, Languages of
the North Pacific Rim 2 (Graduate School of Letters, Kyoto University, Japan).
61–146.
Nedjalkov, V. (ed.) 1988. Typology of resultative constructions. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Nichols, J. 1985. ‘Switch-reference causatives’, CLS 21.193–203.
O’Connor, M.C. 1992. Topics in Northern Pomo grammar. New York: Garland.
Oswalt, R.L. 1977. ‘The causative as a reference switching mechanism in Western
Pomo’, BLS 3.46–54.
Reed, I., Miyaoka, O., Jacobson, S., Afcan, P. and Krauss, M. 1977. Yup'ik Eskimo
grammar. Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language Center, University of Alaska.
Shibatani, M. 1996. ‘Applicatives and benefactives’, pp. 157–94 of Shibatani and
Thompson 1996.
Shibatani, M. and Thompson, S. (eds.) 1996. Grammatical constructions: their form
and meaning. Oxford: Clarendon.
Woodbury, A.C. 1981. Study of the Chevak dialect of Central Yup'ik Eskimo. Ph.D.
dissertation. University of California, Berkeley.
Motuna 115
4 Transitivity and valency-changing
derivations in Motuna
MASAYUKI ONISHI
1 Introduction
Motuna is one of eight non-Austronesian, or Papuan, languages from
Bougainville, Papua New Guinea.1
It has several thousand speakers.2
Typologically, Motuna is an agglutinative language with considerable
morphophonological fusion. It is both head-marking and dependent-marking.
NPs are marked by case suffixes. Core case markings are ergative/absolutive
(ergative marking is optional in certain environments – see §2(I)). Verbs,
kinship terms, classifiers and numerals show extremely complex morphology,
with both suffixing and prefixing.
Constituent order tends to be verb-final, with A and O in either order. Any
NPs can be left unexpressed if understood from the context.
1
Bougainville is an island on the eastern end of Papua New Guinea, situated next to the border
of the Solomon Islands. On the Bougainville main island, there are ten Austronesian languages
which concentrate in the north and along the coast, and eight Papuan languages which concen-
trate in the south and the central part of the island. Siwai, where Motuna is spoken, is situated
in the southern part, to the west of Buin.
Among the eight Papuan languages, Motuna, Buin, Nagovisi and Naasioi constitute a group
(named ‘East Bougainville Stock’ by Allen and Hurd 1965), while the other four languages
constitute another group (‘West Bougainville Stock’, ibid.). The first group is further divided
into two subgroups (Buin Family consisting of Motuna and Buin, and Naasioi Family consist-
ing of Naasioi and Nagovisi) based on their lexico-statistical analysis, but the legitimacy of this
subgrouping is yet to be examined.
Motuna has a C1V(C2) structure where C2 is an archiphoneme realized as a glottal stop, a
glottal fricative or a nasal homorganic to the following consonant (or a velar nasal word-
finally). Other consonants occupy C1 slot. They are: stops p, t and k; nasals m, n and ng;
fricatives s and h; rhotic r; and glides y and w. It has a typical five-vowel system with front
high i, front mid e, back high u, back mid o and back low a.
2
The latest figure is 6,600 based on the 1970 census. The 1980 census doesn’t give any specific
figure of Motuna speakers. The 1990 census was not carried out due to the political conflict on
the island since 1989.
116 Masayuki Onishi
The major characteristics of the grammar of the language which bear on
the main discussion of this chapter are summarized below:
(1) A five-term gender system and classifiers coexist in Motuna. Five
genders – masculine, feminine, diminutive, local and manner – are
distinguished in singular nouns, but these are neutralized in non-
singular number (dual and paucal are marked by diminutive-like agree-
ment, and plural by masculine). The gender of a noun is obligatorily
cross-referenced by modifiers within the same NP and/or by the pre-
dicate. In addition, most nouns can be classified into one or more of
fifty-one semantic types, which can be indicated by classifiers modify-
ing them. Classifiers are combined with numerals, demonstratives,
possessive pronouns, etc.
(2) Nouns distinguish four numbers – singular, dual, paucal and plural.
Personal pronouns distinguish singular and nonsingular number. In
1st person nonsingular there is also an inclusive/exclusive distinc-
tion. There is no 3rd person free pronoun, and the demonstrative is
used instead in deictic/anaphoric function.
(3) All the verbs mark the person and number of core argument(s), i.e. S,
or O and A. Motuna shows both split-S morphology and active/middle
voice distinction which will be discussed in §3 in some detail. Verbs
also indicate one of fourteen tense/aspect/mood categories. Fully
inflected verbs further mark the gender of the topical argument of
the sentence by a suffix.
(4) Like many other Papuan languages, Motuna has medial verbs which
usually occupy sentence-medial positions and indicate both tense/
aspect and switch-reference. Clause coordination is mainly achieved
by chaining. Medial verbs, by their tense/aspect and switch-reference
suffixes, track the theme(s) of the discourse, often with the help of
conjunctions and discourse markers.
In this chapter I will first overview the structure of basic verbal clauses
of the language. §3 discusses the morphological structure of the verb, and
then verb classes categorized according to the different types of cross-
referencing markings they take. §4 deals with valency-changing derivations
of the language – two valency-increasing ones (applicative and causative), two
valency-reducing ones (reciprocal and deagentive), and one which rearranges
valencies without changing transitivity value (stimulative). §5 gives a sum-
mary of the foregoing discussion.
Motuna 117
2 The structure of basic verbal clauses
As mentioned in §1, Motuna verbs obligatorily cross-reference the person/
number of core arguments – S in the case of intransitive verbs, and O and A
in the case of transitive verbs. NP case marking is ergative–absolutive.3
(I) In transitive verbal clauses, verbs obligatorily take suffixes which
indicate the person/number of O and A arguments. O is always realized as an
unmarked (absolutive) NP. The A argument can be marked by the ergative
suffix, but it is usually unmarked if it is the topic of the sentence.4
See (1a)
and (1b).
(1) (a) [nii]O [Aanih-ki]A tangu-m-u-u-ng
1sg Female.Name-erg slap-1O-3A-nr.past-m
Aanih (f) slapped me (m) (‘me’ topic)
(b) [Aanih]A [nii]O tangu-m-u-i-na
Female.Name 1sg slap-1O-3A-nr.past-f
Aanih (f) slapped me (m) (‘Aanih’ topic)
In (1a) the O argument nii ‘me’ is the topic and the A argument Aanih is
marked by the ergative suffix -ki. In this case, O and A NPs can be placed in
either order, although OA is an unmarked order. Note that the verbal ending -ng
indicates the masculine gender of the head of the topic NP, in this case nii ‘me’.
In (1b), on the other hand, the A argument Aanih is the topic. It is usually
unmarked5
and in such a case word order is rigid, i.e. it must precede the
unmarked O. Note again that the verbal ending -na indicates the feminine
gender of the head of the topic NP, in this case Aanih.
Four transitive verbs – o- ‘give to’, nai- ‘show to’, tong- ‘name’ and hohk-
‘throw towards’ – require another syntactically obligatory argument in absolut-
ive case which is not cross-referenced by the verb. I call such an argument
‘E’ (Extension to core) following Dixon (1994: 122–4; see also Introduction of
this volume). E refers to Gift, Thing Shown, Name and Thing Thrown, e.g.:
3
These two criteria coincide well, but in some cases we also need syntactic criteria to determine
the grammatical status of the argument. It is the case with the verbs (‘So’ verbs) which take an
O suffix and an invariable 3rd person A suffix. The argument cross-referenced by an O suffix
mostly shows S properties (in terms of imperative formation, verbal derivations such as causat-
ive and deagentive, and switch-reference in clause chaining), but O properties in limited
circumstances (e.g. So of some applicative verbs, cf. §4.1.2).
4
I use the term ‘topic’ roughly in the sense defined by, for example, Li and Thompson (1976).
It is a central argument in a topic-comment structure contrasted with the syntactic category
‘subject’.
5
I found no example in my text corpus where topical A is marked by ergative. According to
my informants, however, topical A can be marked by ergative. In elicitation sessions such
examples show up occasionally.
118 Masayuki Onishi
(2) [nii]O [ong miika]E o-m-i-ng
1sg dem+m leftover.of.betel.mixture give.to-1O-2A-pauc/pl+imp
Give that betel mixture (in your mouth) to me
(II) Intransitive verbs obligatorily mark the person/number of the S argu-
ment which is manifested as an unmarked (absolutive) NP. Four types of
cross-referencing marking are recognized – So, Sa, middle and irregular (the
last one marked by the consonant alternation of the stem):
(3) toko=tokoh- ‘feel hot’ with an So suffix (reduplication of the stem is
obligatory):
[nii]S toko=toko-mu-u-ng
1sg feel.hot-1So-nr.past-m
I (m) am feeling hot
(4) kumar- ‘laugh’ with an Sa suffix:
[nii]S kumar-os-i-ng
1sg laugh-1Sa-nr.past-m
I (m) laughed
(5) turu- ‘return’ with a middle suffix:
[Aanih]S tii uri turu-mo-i-na
Female.Name art+l village return-mid1S-nr.past-f
Aanih (f) returned to the village
(6) pih- ‘go’ with an irregular inflection:
[Aanih]S tii uri pi-i-na
Female.Name art+l village go+2/3Sirr-nr.past-f
Aanih (f) went to the village
Some intransitive verbs (So, Sa or middle) require an E argument.
(7) haa- ‘want’ with an So suffix:
[nii]S [tuu]E haa-mu-u-ng
1sg water want-1So-nr.past-m
I want water
(8) kuuk- ‘know’ with an Sa suffix:
hii! [nii tii]S jaki [ong-ko kuna]E toku
oh.dear 1sg art+f as.you.know dem+m-emph traditional.medicine not
noi kuuk-o-ma-na
any know-1Sa-genl-f
Oh dear! As you know, I don’t know any of that traditional medicine!
Thus, there are four types of valency structure in Motuna:
(a) plain transitive verbs take A and O;
(b) extended transitive verbs take A, O and E (or two Es in the case of
applicative verbs derived from basic extended transitive verbs, cf. §4.1.2);
Motuna 119
(c) plain intransitive verbs take S; and
(d) extended intransitive verbs take S and E.
3 Verb structure and verb classes
3.1 Verb structure
The verb in Motuna consists of the following morphological elements:
(i) verb stem;
(ii) bound pronominal morphemes cross-referencing the person and
number of core argument(s);
(iii) tense/aspect/mood (hereafter TAM) suffix; and
(iv) fully inflected non-medial verbs further cross-reference the gender
of the topical argument;
(iv′) other non-medial verbs and same-subject (hereafter ss) medial verbs
have no additional markings; and
(iv″) different-subject (hereafter ds) medial verbs have a portmanteau form
indicating both aspect and switch-reference.
Fully inflected verbs are amply exemplified in (1)–(8). Here I will exem-
plify the forms of verbs which do not take gender marking:
(9) (a) taapu-r-opi-ti-hee
help-2O-1A-du-def.fut
We two will definitely help you (sg) / I will definitely help you two
(b) kuuto-woo-ro
wait-mid3S-perf(+ss)
After he/she waited, he/she . . .
(c) kuuto-woro-ku
wait-mid3S-genl+ds
When he/she waited, someone else . . .
Example (9a) is a non-medial verb with a Definite Future suffix which
requires no gender marking. Example (9b) is a medial verb, and the suffix -ro
marks the Perfect aspect without any further marking, indicating that the S of
this verb is coreferential with S or A of the controlling clause. Example (9c)
is the same verb in another medial form, with the suffix -ku marking both
General tense/aspect and Different Subject categories.
Note that taapu- in (9a) functions as a transitive verb taking active-voice
O/A suffixes, while kuuto- in (9b) and (9c) functions as an intransitive verb
taking a middle S suffix. Both of these verb stems are ambitransitive and can
120 Masayuki Onishi
potentially take either type (active or middle) of suffix(es). The voice system
of Motuna, thus, is a so-called ‘verbal diathesis’ (cf. Klaiman 1988, 1991),
where distinct sets of person/number markings of core arguments render the
active/middle distinction of the verb.6
There are five types of cross-referencing marking – three in active voice,
one in middle voice and one irregular type.
(I) In active voice:
(a) O and A person/number suffixes, e.g. (1) and (2);
(b) So person/number suffixes consisting of O suffixes and 3rd
person singular (dummy) A suffix, e.g. (3) and (7);
(c) Sa suffixes which are formally identical with A suffixes, e.g.
(4) and (8).
(II) In middle voice:
middle S person/number suffixes (the first consonant of which is
identical with an O person suffix), e.g. (5).
(III) Irregular intransitive (five verbs):
consonant alternation of the stem which marks the person of S, and
a number suffix. 1st person S is marked by a nasal consonant, and
2nd/3rd persons by a homorganic stop/rhotic/glide or a fricative h,
e.g. (6).
The underlying forms of person markings (some of which also indicate
number and exclusiveness) are given in tables 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3.
6
Verbal diathesis of this type is rarely attested in the world’s languages. The languages which
indicate the voice distinction by different sets of person/number markings include classical
Indo-European languages such as Greek and Sanskrit (cf. Klaiman 1988, Haspelmath 1990).
At least one other Papuan language from southern Bougainville – Naasioi – indicates the
active/middle distinction in the same way as Motuna.
4.1 Active voice
transitive So intransitive Sa intransitive
(O + 3sgA) (A)
O A
1st -m -oC -mu -oC
-mor (pauc/pl.exc)
2nd -r -i -ru -i
3rd -Ø -u (sg/du) -u -u (sg/du)
-wa (pauc/pl) -wa (pauc/pl)
Motuna 121
4.2 Middle voice (intransitive)
(O + sg) (O + n-sg)
1st -moro -mee
-mara (pauc/pl.exc)
2nd -roro -ree
3rd -woro -wee
4.3 Irregular stems (intransitive)
‘be/exist’ ‘go’ ‘come’ ‘die’ ‘cry’
1st n m m m m
pauc/pl.exc u-n u-m u-m m . . . ra m . . . ra
2nd t p h p p
3rd t p h p p
pauc/pl u-r u-w u-h p . . . ra p . . . ra
These person markings are further followed by a number suffix which is
zero in singular and paucal/plural exclusive, -ti in dual, and -ru in paucal/
plural inclusive.
3.2 Verb classes
Verb stems are classified as follows according to which type(s) of cross-
referencing marking they take. The majority of verb stems which take O/A
suffixes can also take middle S suffixes. They are discussed in §3.2.3. Most
intransitive-only verbs take only one type of marking (i.e. Sa, So, middle or
irregular inflection), but a small number of them are ‘fluid’ (cf. Onishi 1994:
401ff.).
See Appendix for a list of representative verbs in each class.
3.2.1 Active intransitive (So and Sa) verbs
So verbs constitute a closed class. Twenty-three So-only stems and a few ‘fluid’
stems have been identified. They all denote inner (both mental and physical)
experiences (such as ‘want’, ‘feel shy’, ‘feel painful’, ‘be/become ill’) or uncon-
trolled processes/events (such as ‘(one’s blood/tears) drip’, ‘decay’).
Sa verbs constitute a larger, probably open class. They take A-type suffixes.
Semantically they are heterogeneous. They may express dynamic activities
(e.g. ‘walk’, ‘climb’, ‘laugh’), inchoative states (e.g. ‘(get to) know’, ‘become/
be similar’), processes and resultative states (e.g. ‘become/be big’, ‘be/get
tired’), bodily functions (e.g. ‘hiccup’, ‘stink’), etc.
122 Masayuki Onishi
3.2.2 Irregular intransitive verbs
Five irregular verbs mark the person of S by the consonant alternation of the
stem. They are: tuh- ‘be, exist’, pih- ‘go’, huh- ‘come’, puuh- ‘die’ and paah-
‘cry’. They represent high-frequency items in the language.7
3.2.3 Active-middle verbs
Many verb stems (slightly more than 50 per cent of all the stems) can take
both active and middle suffixes. The majority of them function as transitive
verbs in active voice, taking O and A suffixes. In middle voice, on the other
hand, they function as intransitive verbs, cross-referencing only S.8
In the
case of such active-middle verbs, the S argument in middle voice corresponds
to (I) A = O, (II) O, or (III) A in active voice. Accordingly, they show three
types of semantic contrast discussed below. Note that the same verb stem
may take more than one type of S. For example, mono- ‘see/look at [active]’
can take all the three types, with the meanings ‘see/look at oneself’, ‘appear/
be in the scene’ and ‘be careful’ in middle voice.
(I) A and O (active) correspond to S (middle) – reflexive action The reflexive
action described in middle voice may be a voluntary or involuntary action
which directs towards oneself or one’s bodypart, e.g.:
(10) (a) ho-ko hiuo mono-ji-'-hee
art+m-emph clay.pot look.at-3O+2A-pauc/pl-def.fut
You (all) will definitely look at the clay pot
(b) pi-hee impa tii kannuku-kori mono=mono-roo
go+2Sirr-def.fut now art+l puddle-l redup=look.at.self-mid2S+imp
You will definitely go to the puddle now. Look at yourself carefully (in the
reflection of the puddle)
A nominal referring to a bodypart may stand as E:
(11) [hoo irihwa n-ajaa]E u'kisa
art+m finger one-cl.wrapped.object.lengthwise long.ago
haha'-woro-mo tokis-or-u-ng . . .
work-mid3S-genl(+ss) cut.self-mid3S-rem.past-m
. . . a finger (of her own) which she cut long ago while she was working . . .
Verbs of this type often express habitual acts of ‘grooming’ (cf. Klaiman
1992, Kemmer 1993 and 1994) which still involve one’s bodypart but are
7
‘Dying’ and ‘crying’ go together in Siwai culture. Vigorous crying of women over the dead
person is one of the most important parts of the funeral. See Oliver (1955: 209ff.).
8
The only clear exception is the verb hohk- ‘throw towards’. It requires an ergative NP and an
absolutive NP even when it is marked by middle S suffixes; cf. Onishi (1994: 400).
Motuna 123
‘less agentive activities’ at the same time, and are thus semantically close to
Type III verbs discussed below. In the following example, the verbs under-
lined express ‘grooming’:
(12) ong Tantanu . . . uuh-oro-mo jii
dem+m Ancestor’s.Name wash-mid3S-genl(+ss) and
sii'h-oro-mo ruhruh-woro-mo
put.oil.on-mid3S-genl(+ss) comb.one’s.hair-mid3S-genl(+ss)
roki=manni nimautu-wo-i tii uri
certainly look.handsome-mid3S-cont(+ss) art+l village
mori'-ki-ng
return+3S-hab.past-m
This Tantanu . . . used to have a bath, put oil on his body, comb his hair and
certainly look handsome and go back to the village
(II) O (active) corresponds to S (middle) – spontaneous process/event The
verb in middle voice expresses a spontaneous process or even (a type of)
anticausative. The referent of S undergoes the effects of the whole process/event.
The middle verb doesn’t imply any external agent. Observe the following
examples:
(13) (a) hoo tuu ino-o-mo tu-ku hoo o'koo
art+m water fill-3O+3A-genl cont+3S-genl+ds art+m that
menu hingng-oro-mo ti-ko rokut-u-u-na
mountain break-mid3S-genl(+ss) there-purp bury-3O+3A-rem.past-f
While she was filling the water, that mountain broke and buried her there
(b) ong hoo menu toku nahah roruki hingng-or-u-ng
dem+m art+m mountain not possibly however break-mid3S-rem.past-m
This mountain, however, didn’t possibly break by itself (there is a reason
behind it)
(c) tii-ngi mara ti-ki tuh-ah hingng-u-u-ng
art+f-erg evil.woman there-inst be-part break-3O+3A-rem.past-m
The evil woman who lived there broke the mountain
In (13a), the narrator says that the mountain spontaneously ‘broke’, using
the middle verb. Then, in (13b), she corrects her statement by saying that it
can’t be a spontaneous event, and then restates the whole event using the
active form of the same verb, referring to the external agent ‘the evil woman’.
(14) tii poku'-ro manni ti-ki po'k-oi-juu . . .
there hide+3O+3A-perf(+ss) then there-inst be.hidden-mid3S-cont+ds
When she (= the possum) hid her (= the owl) there, and while she (= the
owl) was hidden there, (they) . . .
124 Masayuki Onishi
In (14), successive use of the active and the middle forms of the verb po'k-
brings the ‘owl’, which is O of the former and S of the latter, to the centre of
attention in this part of discourse. This combination of active and middle
forms effectively fulfils the pragmatic function of a passive in other lan-
guages. Note that in the above example the active verb describes a telic
action while the middle verb describes a state rather than an action.
(III) A (active) corresponds to S (middle) – less agentive activity in which one
is involved The subject of the verb, both in active and middle voices, is the
Agent of the described action or activity. The verb in active voice expresses
a transitive action which the Agent (A) performs towards the Patient (O),
while the verb in middle voice expresses the Agent’s (S) activity in which the
Patient is irrelevant or unimportant. As such, the S referent of the middle verb
undergoes the effects of the whole event by him-/herself.
(15) (a) jeewo? ni-ngi noo taapu-r-ong-kuu-ng?
how 1sg-erg possibly help-2O-1Apauc/pl-imag-m
How? Could I possibly help you all?
(b) Paanaangah ehkong taapu-woo-ro
Ancestor’s.Name now participate-mid3S-perf(+ss)
pihk-a-iro-ng
look.for-3O+3pauc/plA-pres.prog-m
Now Paanaangah participates, and they start (lit. are) looking for it
Again the activity denoted by the middle verb is often associated with
durative or habitual aspect, expressing a state rather than the activity itself.
(16) Maawo po-oku ehkong kuuto-wo-i
Male.Name his-mother now wait-mid3S-cont(+ss)
okur-u-u-na
get.tired-3Sa-rem.past-f
While waiting, Maawo’s mother got tired now
A nominal denoting the activity or event may stand as E:
(17) [sikuulu]E komik-oro-ku . . .
schooling finish-mid3S-genl+ds
After he finished schooling, (they) . . .
To sum up the discussion in this section, middle verbs in Motuna tend to
express states, or durative or habitual activities, rather than telic actions. Thus
the clauses with middle verbs are generally low in transitivity not only in
terms of the number of participants but also in terms of aspect (cf. Hopper
Motuna 125
and Thompson 1980). In each case, S of the middle verb is characterized
semantically as the sole participant who is affected by the event/process
denoted by the verb, and pragmatically as the centre of attention in that part
of discourse.
3.2.4 Middle-only verbs
Motuna also has many intransitive verb stems which take only middle suf-
fixes (middle-only verbs). They are again of three types:
(I) Those denoting physical actions which crucially involve one’s body The
denoted action may be voluntary or involuntary.
(18) nompa kuro-roo
quickly run-mid2S+imp
Run quickly
Other verbs which are included in this subclass are: ne'w- ‘sit down/be
sitting’, turu- ‘return’ and mihw- ‘move/jump vigorously’. Among them, the
first two have synonymous Sa verbs maapu- ‘sit down/be sitting’ and morik-
‘return’, respectively.
(II) Those denoting spontaneous processes/events which affect oneself The
process or event expressed by the verb of this class is typically somatic. The
referent of S is animate, and undergoes the effects of the whole process/event
which he/she cannot control.
(19) manni turio-woro-mo nok-u-u-na: ‘. . .’
then be.alarmed-mid3S-genl(+ss) say-3S-rem.past-f
Then, being alarmed, she said: ‘. . .’
Other verbs in this class include: hiiro- ‘become/be hungry’, haring- ‘be-
come/be worried’, kaa- ‘be born’ and kinot- ‘become/be drowned’.
(III) Those denoting complex activities in which one is involved The majority
of stems in this subclass are derived from nouns which denote culturally
salient complex activities. Original nouns include loan words from English or
Tok Pisin such as sikuulu- ‘school(ing)/be educated’ and kiki- ‘play soccer’,
and nouns with the derivational suffix -ai such as tupur-ai ‘burning off of the
bush’ and siimp-ai ‘sweeping’. The referent of S is the Controller of the
described activity. The whole clause, again, is low in transitivity in that it is
a habitual event without any specifiable Patient.
126 Masayuki Onishi
(20) tiko ti-ki aat-o-mo
and there-inst stay.overnight-1S-genl(+ss)
sikuulu-moro-ki-na
be.educated-mid1S-hab.past-f
And I used to stay in the dormitory (lit. stay overnight there) and be
educated
(21) nii tii tupurai-moro-heeta-na
I art+f burn.off.bush-mid1S-fut-f
I will (habitually) burn off the bush
3.2.5 Summary
The following is a list of all the verb classes of Motuna which are discussed
in §3.2. See the examples of verbs in each class in the Appendix.
(1) so verbs
(2) sa verbs
(3) irregular verbs (‘be, exist’, ‘go’, ‘come’, ‘die’, ‘cry’)
(4) ambitransitive (active-middle) verbs:
(I) ‘reflexive action’ (S = O = A)
(II) ‘spontaneous process/event’ (S = O)
(III) ‘less agentive activity’ (S = A)
(5) middle-only verbs
(I) ‘bodily action’
(II) ‘spontaneous process/event’
(III) ‘complex activity’
4 Valency-changing derivations
Motuna has five valency-changing processes. They are: (1) causative and
applicative which increase valencies; (2) reciprocal and deagentive which
reduce valencies; and (3) stimulative which rearranges valencies without chang-
ing transitivity value. Causative, applicative, reciprocal and stimulative are
morphological, while deagentive is periphrastic.
4.1 Valency-increasing derivations
4.1.1 Causative
As discussed in §3.2.3, Motuna has many active-middle (ambitransitive) verbs
of reflexive (S = O = A) and spontaneous (S = O) types, and in the case of
such verbs the transitive versions often express causative meanings (e.g. ‘cut’,
‘cover’, ‘hide’ and ‘awaken’), with the causer acting directly and achieving
Motuna 127
the result intentionally. The causee is not in control of the state or activity,
and is affected by the result of the whole event.
Motuna also employs medial-verb constructions involving verbs such as
‘tell’, ‘persuade’ and ‘instruct’ to express meanings equivalent to causatives.
Transitive verbs, or intransitive verbs with an Agent S, are likely to form
medial-verb constructions of this type to express causative meanings where
the causee is still a potential Controller of the activity denoted by the original
verb, e.g.:
(22) ni-ngi mi'no-ongu tu-u-i-na
1sg-erg instruct-3O+1A+genl+ds hit-3O+3A-nr.past-f
I instructed him and he hit her / I made him hit her
(23) kongot-us-uu pi-i-ng
persuade-3O+1A-cont+ds go+3Sirr-nr.past-m
While I persuaded him, he went / I forced him to go
In addition to lexical causatives and medial-verb constructions of the type
mentioned above, Motuna has a productive morphological causative deriva-
tion where the causative suffix -wooto is attached directly to the verb stem.
The initial w of the suffix is dropped after a consonant-final stem.
The causative suffix can be attached to any type of intransitive verb stems,
and many ambitransitive (active-middle) verb stems. In the former case causat-
ive derivation introduces a new A argument, and allows the S of the underlying
intransitive clause to function as O.
Examples of one-place intransitive verbs:
(24) So verb hunok- ‘be/become full in stomach’:
(a) [hoo kitoria]S hoo pau nee-wa-ro topo meeng
art+m children art+m food eat-3O+3pauc/plA-perf(+ss) well very
hunok-uru-u-ng
become.full.in.stomach-3pauc/plSo-rem.past-m
After the children had eaten the food, they became very much full in stomach
(b) roki=manni topo meeng
really well very
hunok-ooto-o-r-u-ng
become.full.in.stomach-caus-3O+3A-pauc/pl-rem.past-m
He made them certainly very much full in stomach (by feasting them)
(25) Sa verb patak- ‘arrive’:
(a) [hoo nee muumiaku]S impa patak-u-ito-ng
art+m it.must.be lord now arrive-3Sa-pres.prog-m
(My) lord must be arriving now
128 Masayuki Onishi
(b) uko-o-ro ehkong tii huhno
carry-3O+3A-perf(+ss) now art+l mouth.of.river
patak-ooto-o-ko-ng
arrive-caus-3O+3A-pres-m
(The current of the river) carries him and now makes him arrive at the
mouth of the river
Two-place intransitive verbs become three-place, e.g.:
(26) Sa verb rii(h)- ‘become’:
(a) [hoo Siuai-no-po]S [nommai tanaku'-ngung]E
art+m Place.Name-link-cl.people person industrious-pl
rii-wa-a-ng
become-3pauc/plSa-rem.past-m
Siwai people became industrious people
(b) manni [Kihili]O inokee [hoo mision honna]E
then Place.Name again art+m mission big
rii-woota-wa-a-no . . .
become-caus-3O+3pauc/plA-rem.past-l
Then they made Kihili a big mission . . .
When the causative suffix is attached to an ambitransitive (active-middle)
stem, the causative version tends to be based on the intransitive (middle) sense.
This is particularly the case when the original verb stem with a middle suffix
has a reflexive (type I) or a spontaneous (type II) reading.
As mentioned at the beginning of this section, reflexive and spontaneous
middle verbs have transitive versions which express causative meanings with
the causer acting directly on the causee and achieving the result intention-
ally. The morphological causative of a verb of this type, on the other hand,
describes a situation where the causer initiates a process or activity but does
not necessarily act directly or intentionally. (Note that in both lexical and
morphological causatives the causee has no control over the event.) Observe
the following example:
(27) (a) toku-ko to-wooto-i-heeto-ng
not-emph be.hit-caus-3O+2A-fut-m
You will never cause [the baby] to be hit (on the ground)
In (27a), the speaker asks the addressee (the causer) to pay enough atten-
tion to prevent an undesirable event. In this example the causer is seen as an
Initiator but not as an Agent. The verb to- ‘hit/kill’ with active suffixes as
in example (22), on the other hand, denotes an intentional transitive action
which directly affects the Patient, and thus cannot be used in the context
Motuna 129
where (27a) is uttered. The morphological causative to-wooto- is based on the
spontaneous sense of the verb to- in middle voice, as in (27b).
(27) (b) kui-kitee to-wor-i-ng
tree-abl be.hit-mid3S-nr.past-m
He fell from a tree and was hit (on the ground)
The morphological causative of a type III ambitransitive verb also tends
to be based on the intransitive (‘less agentive’) sense. Observe the following
example:
(28) (a) tii hinra’ tii kuuto-woota-wa-ro
art+f thunder there wait-caus-3O+3pauc/plA-perf(+ss)
sih-a-a-na
leave-3O+3pauc/plA-rem.past-f
They left the Thunder, keeping her waiting there [by telling a lie]
The causative verb kuuto-wooto- cannot take another argument referring to
the person for whom the Thunder is waiting. Thus it is not based on the
transitive sense but on the intransitive (‘less agentive’) sense of the original
stem kuuto- as in example (16), which is repeated below:
(28) (b) Maawo po-oku ehkong kuuto-wo-i
Male.Name his-mother now wait-mid3S-cont(+ss)
okur-u-u-na
get.tired-3Sa-rem.past-f
While waiting, Maawo’s mother got tired now
Causative verbs of some type III verbs, however, are allowed to take two
NP arguments.
The verb stem uko-, for example, functions as a transitive verb with the
meaning ‘carry something (O)’ when it takes active-voice suffixes, and as an
extended intransitive verb with the meaning ‘be engaged in carrying some-
thing (E)’ in middle voice. The former is used to describe a normal transitive
action, while the latter is used when the speaker wants to focus on the activity
itself, e.g. on how a thing is carried, as in:
(29) (a) [ong]E ukuna-kori koto uko-roro-hee
dem+m shoulder-loc up carry-mid2S-def.fut
You will definitely carry this up on the shoulder
The causative verb uko-wooto- can also take two NP arguments, one with
a human referent in O function, and the other with a non-human referent in E
function:
130 Masayuki Onishi
(29) (b) tii-ko peeko-no uri turu-wee-m-mo
art+l-emph 3n-sgposs-l village return-mid3S-pauc/pl-genl
uru-ku [hoo pau ponnaa]E
cont3pauc/plS-genl+ds art+m food plenty
uko-wooto-o-r-u-ng
carry-caus-3O+3A-pauc/pl-rem.past-m
As they were returning to their village he made them carry plenty of food
[he sent plenty of food with them]
Since both the transitive and intransitive versions of the verb uko- can take
two NP arguments, it is not clear in this case which version the causative verb
uko-wooto- derives from. Natural interpretation, though, would be that it is
based on the transitive sense, because (29b) tells us the fact that the ‘food’ was
carried by the people to the village, but it does not describe how it was done.
In Motuna morphological causatives never seem to have an E with a
human referent. Thus a transitive verb with an O referring to a human cannot
be causativized – or if it is ever causativized, the meaning of the causative verb
must be quite different from that of the original verb. For example, the verb
taapu- has the meaning ‘help somebody (O)’ in active voice and ‘participate’
in middle voice (cf. (15a) and (15b), respectively). The causative verb taapu-
wooto- can take two argument NPs with non-human referents, with the mean-
ing ‘add something (O) to something (E)’:
(30) [ong tuu]O [hoo hiuo-ko kuu-ngi tu-ro-ng]E
dem+m water art+m clay.pot-of inside-inst be.3S-perf-m
taapu-wooto-i-heeto-ng
help-caus-3O.2A-fut-m
You will add this water to what is in the clay pot
Motuna also has a small number of verb stems which are used only as
transitive (active) verbs in normal circumstances. The majority of them can-
not be causativized but there are at least two exceptions: tee- ‘eat (munchable
food)’9
and nee- ‘eat (soft food) / drink’.10
The causatives of these verbs are
used only in the situations where the Causer feeds the Causee who is totally
passive (e.g. a baby). The following example is from an account of a tradi-
tional ceremony where a man directly put the meat of a possum into ‘our’
mouth (which ‘we’ are forbidden to eat by ourselves):
9
The verb stem tee- may take middle suffixes to express a reflexive meaning (‘eat one’s own
body’) in unusual circumstances. It is not possible to use the causative form based on this
reflexive sense.
10
Dixon (chapter 2 of this volume) notes that if a language uses a morphological causative only
with a small number of transitive verbs, ‘eat’ and ‘drink’ are most likely to be included. This
appears to be the case with Motuna, too.
Motuna 131
(31) tiko ongingoto [ho-i no-wori]A inokee [hoo napa]E
then up.there art+m-erg one-cl.animate again art+m possum
tee-wooto-mor-u-kuu-ng
eat-caus-1pauc/pl.inc.O-3A-imag-m
Then up there a man would make us eat (the meat of) a possum
4.1.2 Applicative
The applicative suffix -jee is attached to the verb stems of both intransitive
and transitive verbs. The initial j is dropped after a consonant-final stem. In
the case of active-middle stems, it allows only the transitive (active) readings, in
contrast with the causative suffix which usually prefers intransitive (middle)
readings.
Applicative derivation increases the valency of the original verb by intro-
ducing a new O, E or So, according to the type of the verb. It derives trans-
itive verbs from one- or two-place intransitive verbs, two-place intransitive
verbs from one-place intransitive verbs, or three-place transitive verbs from
two-place transitive verbs. When it is attached to three-place transitive verbs,
it may derive four-place transitive verbs, or the valency may remain as it is.
See the discussion and examples below.
The original verb could be Sa, So, irregular intransitive or transitive, but
rarely middle.11
It is presumably because the semantics of applicative deriva-
tion centres around a newly introduced O (or So) whose referent is always
seen as a participant affected by the action/process denoted by the verb. The
centrality and affectedness of the referent of S are part of the semantics of
middle verbs, and if the original S stayed as A of the applicative verb it
would compete with the semantics of a newly introduced O.
The applicative suffix can derive transitive verbs from the stems of one-
place intransitive verbs which denote motions and feelings. They include many
Sa verbs (such as ‘laugh’, ‘get angry’, ‘feel happy’), three irregular verbs
(‘go’, ‘come’ and ‘cry’), and two So verbs (‘become/be afraid’ and ‘feel shy’).
It moves the S argument of these verbs to A status, and introduces a new
O argument.
Semantically, the new O may be Goal of Action or Source of Feeling /
Emotive Action. In general, a purposive NP marked by -ko (with an allomorph
-jo) in the underlying intransitive clause roughly corresponds to the O of the
applicative construction.
11
In elicitation sessions my informants sometimes marginally allow middle-only verbs to take
an applicative suffix. I found no such examples in my text corpus.
132 Masayuki Onishi
Underlying clause (NP-ko) S V
Applicative construction O A V-applic
There is, however, subtle difference in meaning between the two versions.
Observe the following examples:
(32) (a) nii ong-jo pehkoro iirong-ohna-na
1sg dem+m-purp boy get.angry-1Sa+pres.prog-f
I am angry for the sake of this boy
(b) nii ong pehkoro iirong-ee-uhna-na
1sg dem+m boy get.angry-applic-3O+1A+pres.prog-f
I am angry with this boy
Example (32a) simply says that the state of ‘this boy’ (who was, for ex-
ample, unduly mistreated by someone else) is the cause of ‘my’ anger. Example
(32b), on the other hand, refers to ‘my’ anger against ‘this boy’, often accom-
panied by an act of scolding. That is, the applicative construction indicates
that the referent of the new O may potentially be affected by the anger
expressed by the referent of A.
The referent of an O NP in an applicative construction is often restricted to
human beings. Non-humans cannot easily be seen as affected participants, and
thus do not often occur as O in applicative constructions. Observe the following:
(33) (a) ??Kangku-ko mi-ino-ng
Male.Name-purp go+1Sirr-pres.prog-m
(b) Kangku pih-ee-uhno-ng
Male.Name go-applic-3O+1A+pres.prog-m
I am going to see Kangku (for some purpose)
(34) (a) pau-ko mi-ino-ng
food-purp go+1Sirr-pres.prog-m
I am going to get food
(b) *pau mih-ee-uhno-ng
Examples (33a) and (34a) show that the verb pih- ‘go’ can take a Goal NP
in purposive case with a non-human referent, but rarely one with a human
referent.12
In (33b) and (34b), on the other hand, the applicative verb pih-ee-
only allows an NP with a human referent to occur in O function, and not an
NP with a non-human referent.
12
This is unless the speaker treats the human referent of the purposive NP (Kangku in (33a)) as
if he/she is a dumb object which could be taken away at will.
Motuna 133
In the case of some one-place So and Sa verbs which describe physical/
mental states/processes, a new E denoting a body part is introduced. The
applicative verb remains intransitive.
(35) (a) [nii]S siiho-mu-ino-ng
1sg be.ill-1So-pres.prog-m
I am ill
(b) [nii]S [mu'king]E siiho-jee-mu-ino-ng
1sg heart be.ill-applic-1So-pres.prog-m
I am ill at heart
In addition, two of those So verbs (siiho- ‘be/become ill’ and musi’ka- ‘feel
painful’) have an alternative derivation where the original S is demoted to E,
and the inalienable Possessor of the original S is introduced as a new So of
the derived applicative construction.
Underlying clause S V
Applicative construction So E (bodypart) V-applic
(35) (c) nuro [Possessor S, Possessed E] siiho-jee-mu-ina-na
my.daughter be.ill-applic-1So-pres.prog-f
My daughter is ill (and I am affected by it)
In examples (35b) and (35c), it is the referent of So who is affected.
The So verb of possession tuh-ee- is derived from the copula tuh- ‘be/exist’
in the same way, i.e. the original S is demoted to E and the Possessor of this
argument stands as a new So:
(36) (a) uri-ngi [pau ponnaa]S tu-ro-ng
village-inst food much be+3Sirr-perf-m
There is plenty of food in the village
(b) [tuu noo no-'ra]E tuh-ee-nna-na?
water possibly one-cl.small.amount be-applic-2So+perf-f
Do you possibly have a little water?
In the case of two-place intransitive verbs such as kuuk- ‘know’ (Sa), haa-
‘want’ (So) and kaah- ‘not want’ (So), the original S is moved to A and the
original E to O.
Underlying clause S V
Applicative construction So (Possessor) E (Possessed) V-applic
134 Masayuki Onishi
Underlying clause S E V
Applicative construction A O V-applic
Underlying clause O A V
Applicative construction O E A V-applic
There are again restrictions with regard to the animacy status of E and O in
the case of these verbs. For example, the E of kuuk- ‘know’ always has a non-
human referent, but the O of the applicative verb kuuk-ee- ‘know about’ can
have a human or non-human referent. The same applies to haa- ‘want’, the E
of which must have a non-human referent, while the O referent of the
applicative verb haa-jee- ‘need, want somebody’ can be either non-human or
human, e.g.:
(37) (a) [nii]S [tuu]E haa-mu-u-ng
1sg water want-1So-nr.past-m
I want water
(b) [ong tuu]O [ni-ngi]A haa-jee-uhno-ng
dem+m water 1sg-erg want-applic-3O+1A+pres.prog-m
I need this water (for some purpose)
(c) [oi-ngi moomoo-nno nuka-nno]A [ongi
dem+du.pauc.gender-erg my.father-and my.mother-and dem+l+inst
tu-i tuh-arei]E-ko haa-jee-m-u-ti-ka-na
be+3S-cont be-vn-emph want-applic-1O-3A-du-pres-f
These parents of mine want me to stay here
The example (37b) seems to indicate that the referent of A (‘I’) is going to
do something to this ‘water’, implying that the water will be affected by this
future action. In (37c), haa-jee takes a complement clause in addition to a
new O with a human referent.
In the case of plain transitive verbs, the original O is demoted to E and a new
O is introduced. This new O is an Affected Participant (Beneficiary/
Malefactive) of the whole event, or the (potential) Possessor of the original O
who can be seen as an Affected Participant as well.
Motuna 135
(38) (a) ehkong [hoo pau]O nga-wa-mo manni ho-ko
now art+m feast make-3O+3pauc/plA-genl(+ss) then art+m-emph
pa-aromong hoo roki=manni no'-ki-ng: ‘. . .’
his-younger.brother art+m really think+3S-hab.past-m
Now as they gave a feast, his younger brother certainly thought repeatedly:
‘. . .’
(b) [Tantanu-ki]A [pau honna meeng]E
Ancestor’s.Name-erg feast big very
ngo-jee-u-r-u-ng
make-applic-3O+3A-pauc/pl-rem.past-m
Tantanu gave a very big feast for them
(39)(a) [oi angu]O tokis-i-ro hoh-roro-hee
dem+dim arm cut-3O+2A-perf(+ss) throw.away-mid2S-def.fut
You will definitely cut this arm and throw it away
(b) [oi ngo-ni(O) angu]E tokis-ee-m-i-ro
dem+dim 1sgposs-dim arm cut-applic-1O-2A-perf(+ss)
hoh-roro-hee
throw.away-mid2S-def.fut
You will definitely cut this arm of mine and throw it away
Other examples include:
(40) nop- ‘take something (O)’ → no(e)p-ee- ‘take something (E) from/for some-
body (O)’;
to- ‘hit/kill somebody/something (O)’ → to(e)-jee- ‘hit/ kill somebody/some-
thing (E) for/against the benefit of somebody (O)’, ‘hit/ kill somebody’s (O)
somebody/something (E)’
katuk- ‘trim something (O)’ → katuk-ee- ‘trim somebody’s (O) something
(E)’
As mentioned in §2, Motuna has four extended transitive verbs. When
applicative derivation is applied to these verb stems, it demotes the O argu-
ment of the underlying clause to E2 status. It introduces a new O, which
occurs as a Possessor NP of the original E1.
Underlying clause E1 O A V
Applicative construction O E1 E2 A V-applic
(Possessor) (Possessed)
136 Masayuki Onishi
(41) (a) impa [hoo ong koho munu]E1 manni ehkong no-'ra-no
then art+m dem+m down body then now one-cl.small.amount-l
toki=tokis-u-mo o-o-ko-ng
redup=cut-3O+3A-genl(+ss) give.to-3O+3A-pres-m
Then as he cuts the lower part of the body into pieces, he gives them [to the
Demon]
(b) ti-ko ong koto ku'-kori-ko tokis-u-ro [hoo
art+l-purp dem+m up neck-l-purp cut-3O+3A-perf(+ss) art+m
ong koho o-muru]E1
dem+m down dem-cl.piece.of.long.object
o-jee-u-u-ng
give.to-applic-3O+3A-rem.past-m
He cut at the neck and gave that lower part of the body [of his elder brother]
[to the Demon]
Examples of other three-place verbs:
(42) nai- ‘show something (E1) to somebody (O)’ → nai-jee- ‘show somebody’s
(O) something (E1) to somebody (E2)’
hohk- ‘throw something (E1) over towards somebody(O)’ → hohk-ee- ‘throw
somebody’s (O) something (E1) to somebody (E2)’
In the case of tong- ‘name’, the applicative version is chosen when the
speaker wants to focus on the referent of the O argument who will get a new
name. There is no change in valency.
(43) tiwo-noning-ngori [hoo pau muukisa muukisa]O [hoo mii-ngung]E
that.way-towards-l art+m food different different art+m name-pl
tii-nohno tonge=tong-ee-wa-r-u-ng
that.time-length redup=name-applic-3O+3pauc/plA-pauc/pl-rem.past-m
That way, they gave those names to many different kinds of food (one by
one) during that length of time
Note that the O in the above example is the topic of the sentence. Note also
that the paucal/plural number of this argument is marked on the verb, even
though this has inanimate referents. The number of an inanimate noun is not
usually indicated unless the speaker really wants to focus on it.
According to one of my informants, the same kind of choice is available in
the case of the other three-place verbs. If this is the case, then the applicative
suffix can bring the following semantic changes without affecting the valencies:
Underlying clause O E A V
Applicative construction O E A V-applic
Motuna 137
(44) o- ‘give something (E) to somebody (O)’ → o-jee- ‘give something (E) to
somebody (O) for/against O’s benefit’
nai- ‘show something (E) to somebody (O)’ → nai-jee- ‘show something
(E) for (the benefit of) somebody (O)’
hohk- ‘throw something (E) over towards somebody (O)’ → hohk-ee- ‘throw
something (E) to somebody (O) so that O can get E’
The foregoing discussion shows that although applicative derivation increases
valencies in general, the movement of core arguments cannot be defined as
transparently as in the case of causative derivation. Semantico-pragmatic
factors, i.e. affectedness and topicality of the (new) O or So argument, often
regulate the whole derivational process.
4.2 Valency-reducing derivations
4.2.1 Reciprocal
All the reciprocal verbs are intransitive verbs derived from transitive verbs.
Reciprocal verb stems are formed by combining reduplicated forms of ori-
ginal verb stems with the verbal suffix -tuh. The suffix -tuh derives from, and
inflects in the same way as, the copula tuh-, marking the person/number of
the S argument. The original transitive stems may be underived, or derived
by the applicative suffix. There is no reciprocal pronoun in Motuna.
(45) hoo-jori ruu ti-ru manni noo=noo=uru-kuu-ng
art+m-loc day art-cl.day then redup=gather=recip+3pauc/plS-imag-m
On that day, then, they would gather together
(46) hoo uri-ngi Mamangota-ki hoo nommai tu'ki topo
so village-inst Village.Name-inst art+m people all well
taa=taapu=uru-ko-ng
redup=help=recip+3pauc/plS-pres-m
So in Mamangota village, all the people help one another well
Since reciprocal verbs are intransitive, they can easily be causativized:
(47) tiwononing to'=to'kai=tuh-oota-wa-ti-kuu-ng
that.way redup=hold=recip-caus-3O+3pauc/plA-du-imag-m
They would make two of them hold each other(’s hand) that way
4.2.2 Deagentive
Deagentives are formed by combining participles and the auxiliary rii(h)-
‘become/be’. Participles may be either transitive or intransitive. Those derived
from ambitransitive (active-middle) stems are always based on the transitive
(active) senses.
138 Masayuki Onishi
The whole deagentive construction describes a spontaneous action/event.
One uses this construction to avoid mentioning the central participant (the
referent of S or A) of the event, especially when such a participant is a
parent-/child-in-law or a brother-/sister-in-law in relation to the addressee,
or to the speaker if the referent of the unexpressed S/A is the addressee. Note
that unlike passives, O of the transitive verb is not affected by this deriva-
tional process.13
Compare the following pairs of sentences (sentence (a) in each pair is
used in special situations mentioned above, sentence (b) in ordinary contexts).
The unexpressed S or A may be Agent as in (48a) and (50a), respectively, or
Experiencer as in (49a).
(48) (a) woo-ki pih-ah ri-ito-ng
where-inst go-part become+3Sa-pres.prog-m
[lit.] Going to which direction is becoming?
(b) woo-ki pi-ita-na
where-inst go+2/3Sirr-pres.prog-f
Which direction are you going?
(49) (a) no-'ra siiho-wah ri-ito-ng
one-cl.small.amount be.ill-part become+3Sa-pres.prog-m
[lit.] Being a little ill is becoming
(b) no-'ra siiho-o-ito-ng
one-cl.small.amount be.ill-3So-pres.prog-m
He is a little ill
(50) (a) ong moo tee-wah rii-hee
dem+m coconut eat-part become+3Sa-def.fut
[lit.] The eating of this coconut will definitely become
(b) ong moo te-i-hee
dem+m coconut eat-3O+2A-def.fut
You will definitely eat this coconut
4.3 Valency-rearranging (stimulative)
The stimulative suffix -sii(h) is attached to the stems of intransitive (So, Sa or
middle) verbs which denote subjective feelings or emotive actions. The
stimulative suffix demotes the original S which refers to the Experiencer, and
introduces a new S which refers to the Stimulus of such experience. The
demoted S may be absent, or may be expressed by a locative NP as in (52c).
The derived verbs are intransitive with middle-voice suffixes.
13
See Dixon and Aikhenvald (1997) for a definition of prototypical passives.
Motuna 139
Participles may be derived from stimulative verb stems as in (52c). Parti-
ciples are used more frequently than the inflected forms of stimulative verbs
themselves.
Morphologically, the final consonant of the original verb stem is dropped
before the stimulative suffix -sii(h). Some of the stems are obligatorily redu-
plicated. The final h of -sii(h) optionally occurs only before the participle
suffix. Examples:
(51) kamann- ‘feel cold’ (So) → kama'sii(h)- ‘be cold’
maajoh- ‘become/be ashamed’ (So) → maajo-sii(h)- ‘be embarrassing’
ruutoh- ‘be impressed’ (So) → ruuto-sii(h)- ‘be impressive’
toko=tokoh- ‘feel hot’ (So) → toko=toko-sii(h)- ‘be hot’
kumar- ‘laugh’ (Sa) → kuma=kuma-sii(h)- ‘be funny’
okur- ‘get/be tired’ (Sa) → oku-sii(h)- ‘be tiring’
haring- ‘become/be worried’ (middle) → hari=hari-sii(h)- ‘be worrying’
ni'r- ‘be surprised’ (middle) → ni'-sii(h)- ‘be surprising’
(52) (a) toku-ko kumar-opeena-na
not-emph laugh-1S+fut-f
I will never laugh
(b) kuma=kuma-sii-wor-i-ng
redup=laugh-stimulative-mid3S-nr.past-m
He behaved in a funny way / The situation became funny
(c) nii-jori kuma=kuma-siih-ah
me-loc redup=laugh-stimulative-part
It is funny to me
Stimulative verbs can be causativized:
(53) ruuto-sii-wooto-m-i-i-ng
be.impressed-stimulative-caus-1O-2A-nr.past-m
You made me look impressive
5 Conclusion
Motuna has a typologically rather unusual verb system. It has a verbal diathesis
where the active/middle voice distinction is indicated by different sets of
person/number suffixes. In addition, verbs in active voice have a split-S system.
Each of the verb classes, categorized according to the types of person/number
markings they take, shows certain semantic characteristics. Table 4.4 shows
which verb class undergoes which valency-changing derivation(s):
140 Masayuki Onishi
4.4
valency-increasing valency-reducing valency-
rearranging
caus applic recip deagentive stimulative
ambitransitive stems
transitive some yes yes yes no
reading
middle yes no no no no
reading
intransitive stems
So yes yes no yes yes
Sa yes yes no yes yes
middle-only yes rare no yes yes
irregular yes yes no yes no
Causative derivation is applied to any class of intransitive verb stems if the
semantic requirement is satisfied. When it is applied to ambitransitive stems,
the causative versions are likely to be based on the intransitive senses of the
original verbs, but there are some anomalies.
Applicative derivation is also applied to both intransitive and ambitransitive
verb stems. It can, however, rarely be applied to middle verbs. Even when it
is applied to an ambitransitive stem, the applicative version is always based
on the transitive, and not the intransitive (middle), sense of the original verb.
This is explained by the fact that the semantics of applicative derivation centres
around a new O argument whose referent is affected by the action/process
denoted by the verb. The referent of S of a middle verb is also a central
participant affected by the action/process denoted by the verb, and if it stayed
as A of the applicative verb it would compete with the semantics of a newly
introduced O.
Among valency-reducing derivations, reciprocal derivation can be applied
only to transitive verbs, while deagentive can be applied to any class of verbs
with an Agent or Experiencer in A or S function. When applied to an
ambitransitive (active-middle) stem, the deagentive construction is always
based on the transitive sense.
Stimulative derivation is lexically restricted. It applies only to a class of
intransitive verbs which express subjective feelings or emotive actions.
Motuna 141
In Motuna, a little more than 50 per cent of verbs are ambitransitive,
and the rest are mostly intransitive-only verbs. The verbal lexicon is biased
towards intransitive verbs, and it is natural that two valency-increasing
processes (causative and applicative) are much more productive than the
valency-reducing ones.
My study in transitivity and verbal derivations in Motuna suggests that to
understand these phenomena both syntactic and semantico-pragmatic para-
meters need to be carefully examined. It is the interaction of these parameters
that determines the classes of verbs that are associated with specific deriva-
tional processes.
Appendix: examples of verbs in each class (§3.2)
(1) So verbs:
haa- ‘agree/want’ musi'ka- ‘feel painful’
hingh- ‘decay’ mutih- ‘become/be/feel tasty/sweet’
hunok- ‘become/be full in naa'h- ‘become/be lazy’
stomach’ ooruh- ‘become/be afraid’
kaah- ‘disagree/not want’ piih- ‘[one’s blood/tears] drip’
kamann- ‘feel cold’ riino- ‘feel’
maajoh- ‘feel shy’ siiho- ‘become/be ill’
mongu'ha- ‘become/be numb’ urah- ‘become/be/feel heavy’
(2) Sa verbs:
haann- ‘dawn’ kuuk- ‘(get to) know’
haarok- ‘fall’ maap- ‘sit down / be sitting’
honnak- ‘become/be big’ mon- ‘look / look like’
kiin- ‘climb’ morik- ‘return’
kipi'tak- ‘hiccup’ nok- ‘say’
kokopak- ‘crawl’ (of a baby) okur- ‘get/be tired’
konn- ‘walk/move’ rii(h)- ‘become/be’
kumar- ‘laugh/smile’ rumar- ‘stink’
ku't- ‘become/be similar’
(3) Irregular verbs (exhaustive list):
huh- ‘come’ puuh- ‘die’
paah- ‘cry’ tuh- ‘be, exist’
pih- ‘go’
142 Masayuki Onishi
(4) Active-middle verbs:
Type I (‘reflexive action’)
middle (intransitive) active (transitive)
mono- ‘see oneself’ ‘see [something/somebody]’
ruhruh- ‘comb one’s hair’ ‘comb [somebody’s] hair’
sii'h- ‘put oil on oneself’ ‘put oil on [somebody’s] body’
tokis- ‘cut oneself / one’s bodypart’ ‘cut [something/somebody]’
uuh- ‘have a bath / wash one’s ‘wash [something/somebody]’
bodypart’
Type II (‘spontaneous process/event’)
middle (intransitive) active (transitive)
komik- ‘finish / be finished’ ‘finish [something]’
mono- ‘appear / be seen’ ‘see [something/somebody]’
po'k- ‘hide / be hidden’ ‘hide [something/somebody]’
tani- ‘wake up’ ‘awaken [somebody]’
tokis- ‘cut / be cut’ ‘cut [something/somebody]’
Type III (‘less agentive activity’)
middle (intransitive) active (transitive)
hunahunai- ‘make a visit’ ‘visit [somebody]’
komik- ‘be engaged in finishing ‘finish [something]’
[something]’
kuuto- ‘wait / be waiting’ ‘wait for [somebody]’
onoh- ‘be engaged in thinking’ ‘think about
[something/somebody]’
taapu- ‘participate’ ‘help [somebody]’
(5) Middle-only verbs:
Type I (‘bodily action’)
kakapi- ‘crawl (like a caterpillar)’ turu- ‘return’
kuroh- ‘run/go fast’ tuuh- ‘carry [something]
mihw- ‘move/jump vigorously’ on the shoulder’
muhmuhw- ‘whisper’ tuu'k- ‘slide on the ground
ne' ‘sit down / be sitting’ like a lizard’
su'k- ‘jump’
Motuna 143
Type II (‘spontaneous process/event’)
haring- ‘become/be upset’ kamanga'w- ‘yawn’
hiiro- ‘feel/become/be hungry’ nimautu- ‘be/become
hurot- ‘become/be messy’ handsome (m)’
itikai- ‘gain strength’ ni'r- ‘be/become startled’
kaa- ‘be born’ turio- ‘become/be alarmed’
Type III (‘complex activity’)
haha'w- ‘work’ ru'kah- ‘do the cooking’
koronong- ‘say prayer’ sanaka- ‘do the hunting/fishing’
mu'sii- ‘have feast at the siimpai- ‘do the sweeping’
time of mourning; sikuulu- ‘be educated’
to be in that period’ tupurai- ‘burn off the bush’
nihuk- ‘plan and organize’
References
Allen, J. and Hurd, C. 1965. The languages of the Bougainville district. Port Moresby:
Department of Information and Extension Services.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined
constructions’, pp. 71–113 of Essays on language function and language type,
ed. J. Bybee, J. Haiman and S.A. Thompson. Amsterdam, Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Haspelmath, M. 1990. ‘The grammaticization of passive morphology’, Studies in
Language 14.25–72.
Hopper, P.J. and Thompson, S.A. 1980. ‘Transitivity in grammar and discourse’,
Language 56.251–99.
Kemmer, S. 1993. The middle voice, Typological studies in language 23. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
1994. ‘Middle voice, transitivity, and the elaboration of events’, pp. 179–230 of
Voice form and its function, ed. B. Fox and P.J. Hopper. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Klaiman, M.H. 1988. ‘Affectedness and control: a typology of voice systems’, pp. 25–
83 of Passive and middle voice, ed. M. Shibatani. Amsterdam, Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
1991. Grammatical voice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1992. ‘Middle verbs, reflexive middle constructions, and middle voice’, Studies in
Language 16.35–61.
144 Masayuki Onishi
Li, C.N. and Thompson, S.A. 1976. ‘Subject and topic: a new typology of language’,
pp. 457–89 of Subject and topic, ed. C.N. Li. New York: Academic Press.
Oliver, D. 1955. A Solomon Island society. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press.
Onishi, M. 1994. ‘A grammar of Motuna (Bougainville, Papua New Guinea)’. Unpub-
lished Ph.D. dissertation. The Australian National University.
Tariana 145
5 Transitivity in Tariana
ALEXANDRA Y. AIKHENVALD
1 Introduction
This chapter considers transitivity alternations in Tariana.1
There are two
valency-reducing operations and four valency-increasing causativizing mech-
anisms; there is also a valency-increasing mechanism distinct from both causat-
ives and applicatives.2
Transitivity alternations in Tariana provide evidence
as to what grammatical relations must be distinguished in this language.
The chapter is organized as follows. I describe typological properties of
Tariana in §2. Then, in §3, I discuss valency-reducing derivations. Valency-
increasing mechanisms are analysed in §4. Some conclusions and typological
perspectives are given in §5.
2 Typological characteristics of Tariana
Tariana is predominantly head-marking with a few elements of dependent-
marking. There are three open word classes – nouns, verbs and adjectives.
Relations between word classes and functional slots in a clause are summar-
ized in appendix 5.1. The language has a complicated verb structure, and a
large system of classifiers (Aikhenvald 1994a). Constituent order is free, with
a strong tendency towards verb-final order. How grammatical relations are
1
Tariana is a North-Arawak language spoken by around 100 people in the region of the river
Vaupés, Upper Rio Negro (Brazil). It is the only Arawak language spoken in the multilingual
context of the Vaupés linguistic area (see Aikhenvald 1996), and it has suffered a heavy areal
impact from Tucano languages. My corpus consists of several hundred pages of sentences and
word lists and about 700 pages of texts. I am extremely grateful to my teachers of Tariana –
Cândido, Olívia, Graciliano, Juvino and Jusé Brito. I owe thanks to R.M.W. Dixon for useful
discussion and comments.
2
There is also a mechanism which does not affect the transitivity value of a verb, but rearranges
valencies; see Dixon and Aikhenvald (1997).
146 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
marked is discussed in §2.1. Verb structure is discussed in §2.2; and in §2.3
we look at transitivity classes of verbs.
2.1 Grammatical relations
Grammatical relations in Tariana are marked in two ways.
2.1.1 Cross-referencing on the verb
Verbs in Tariana divide into two classes: those which take prefixes (cross-
referencing, relativizing and negative) and those which do not. Active trans-
itive and intransitive verbs obligatorily take cross-referencing prefixes to
mark the A/Sa constituent (following the terminology in Dixon 1994). Stative
verbs (So) and verbs of physical states (Sio) do not take any cross-referencing
markers. This division roughly corresponds to the morphological distinction
between active and stative intransitive verbs inherited from Proto-Arawak.
Active intransitive and transitive verbs have one obligatory prefixal posi-
tion, so that when prefixed negation ma- is used, personal cross-referencing
prefixes are omitted, and person/gender/number distinctions are neutralized.
2.1.2 Case marking
Tariana also uses case marking of an accusative type3
(see Aikhenvald 1994b).
In a straightforward transitive clause, a pronominal NP with an animate re-
ferent in non-subject function is marked by suffix -na. Any NP, nominal
or pronominal, which is not in A, Sa or So function, may optionally take
topicalizing clitic -nuku. (Thus, a free pronoun in non-subject function with
an animate referent can take both -na and -nuku.) If a subject NP (A, Sa or So),
whether nominal or pronominal, is in contrastive focus, it is marked with a
suffix -ne ‘agentive’.4
An Sio pronominal constituent takes -na case; if it is
topical it can take -nuku. Verb types and the marking of grammatical rela-
tions are shown in figure 5.1.
Figure 5.1. Verb types in Tariana
prefixed prefixless
A Sa So Sio other arguments
Non-focussed subject Ø -na/Ø -na/Ø
Focussed subject -ne – –
Topical non-subject – -nuku -nuku
1
2
3
1
4
4
2
4
4
3
1
4
2
4
3
3
In this, Tariana is almost unique among Arawak languages. I have shown elsewhere (Aikhenvald
1996) that case marking in Tariana is most probably the result of areal diffusion from East
Tucano languages.
4
For nouns it is homophonous with the instrumental marker; see further discussion in Aikhenvald
(1994b).
Tariana 147
2.2 Verb structure
There are three main types of predicates – simple predicates, serial verb con-
structions and complex predicates.
Each verb is either transitive (with a pronominal prefix cross-referencing
A) or active intransitive (with a prefix for Sa) or stative intransitive, with an
So argument (but no prefix), or intransitive of physical state, with an Sio argu-
ment (and again no prefix).5
Simple predicates have one prefix position and
up to eight suffix positions. In the scheme below, positions marked with * do
not appear with prefixless verbs.
1 *Cross-referencing prefixes or Negative ma- or Relative ka-
2 ROOT
3 *Thematic syllable
4 Causative -i(-ta)
5 Negative -(ka)de
6 *Resultative -kaku and/or one of the following: Topic-advancing -ni,
or *Passive -kana or Purposive -hyu;
7 Verbal classifiers
8 Benefactive -pena
9 *Reciprocal -kaka
10 Relativizers or nominalizers (relative and converb -li, past relative
-kali, nominalizers -mi, -nipe).
Suffixes may be followed by enclitics. Unlike suffixes, enclitics may be
omitted; they preferably go onto the verb, but may appear on any constituent
provided it is in focus; all enclitics (except mood and evidentiality) allow
variable ordering. Enclitics longer than one syllable can acquire a secondary
stress. The most frequent order of enclitics6
is:
I Mood (imperative, frustrative, conditional);
II Tense and evidentiality;
III Aktionsart (manner or extent of action, associated action);
IV Aspect (completive, durative, repetitive, etc.);
V Degree (augmentative, diminutive, approximative (‘a little bit’));
VI Switch-reference.
Serial verb constructions (SVCs) are known to include up to seven simple
verbs. They are strictly contiguous (i.e. no other constituent can intervene
5
A verbal root can shift classes if a transitivity-increasing suffix is added to it (see §4). There is
just one verb which can be used as prefixless and as prefixed without any additional marker:
ira ‘need’, -ira ‘order’.
6
Some of the enclitics are given in appendix 5.2.
148 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
between their components). Each component of a SVC is an independent
phonological word, and they all receive the same inflection for person, number
and gender of subject (A/Sa). All the components of a SVC have the same
tense, aspect, mood, evidentiality and polarity value. The order of the compon-
ents may be fixed or not depending on the construction type. A SVC cannot
consist of stative (So) verbs only. SVC are widely used to express aspectual,
directional and modal meanings.7
Complex predicates consist of two verbs; they differ from serial verbs only
in that they do not have to share the same subject marking. One example is
the passive – see §3.1.
2.3 Verb types
Verbs in Tariana fall into further classes according to their transitivity.
2.3.1 Transitive and ambitransitive verbs
In some languages every, or almost every, verb is strictly transitive or intrans-
itive; in other languages at least some verbs can have either transitivity value.
These verbs are called ambitransitive, or labile (Dixon 1994: 18, 54). All
transitive verbs in Tariana are A = S ambitransitive (e.g. -hoa ‘eat’, -inu ‘kill,
fight, hunt’, -oa ‘hit’, -ka ‘see’, -hima ‘hear’, -sata ‘greet’, etc.). This means
the object NP can always be optionally omitted, as in English eat (he has
eaten dinner or he has eaten). Example (1) illustrates an ambitransitive verb.
(1) (a:si) nu-hyã-ka
(pepper) 1sgA-eat-decl
I eat / am eating (pepper)
Ditransitive verbs form a subclass of A = S ambitransitives. Their second
argument can be either gift or recipient, e.g., -a ‘give’, -phya ‘sell’, -waIita
‘offer’ (ritual offering), -wãya ‘buy’.
All transitive verbs are prefixed, with four exceptions. There are the fol-
lowing ambitransitive prefixless verbs: two verbs of liking – hui ‘like (food)’,
nhesiki ‘like (not food)’ – and two verbs of fearing – kaku ‘be afraid’ and
hakame ‘get frightened’. A transitive prefixless verb is shown in (2).
7
I can give an example of a serial verb construction which has a directional meaning (the
construction is underlined):
na-musu na-nu nema diha-pua-nuku
3pl-go out 3pl-come 3pl+stand he-cl:river-top.non.a/s
They (the ancestors of the Tarianas) were coming out towards (lit. go out-come-stand)
this (river)
For a further analysis of serial verb constructions in Tariana, see Aikhenvald (forthcoming-c).
Tariana 149
(2) duhua inaku-ne nhesiki-kade-pidana diha niãli-nuku
she woman-agt like-neg-rem.past.infr he man-top.non.a/s
This woman did not like the man
S = O ambitransitives constitute a smallish, closed class. Most verbs of
breaking can be used as S = O ambitransitives, e.g. -makha, -thuka ‘break’
(split), -sawa ‘tear’ (clothes), and a few more verbs, e.g. -hwaweta ‘breathe,
make breathe’, -kuseta ‘swing’, -dukunia ‘switch on, light’, -hipa ‘take, suc-
ceed’. S = O ambitransitives are more frequent in narratives told by younger
people. In (3) -thuka ‘break’ is used transitively, and then intransitively; both
instances are underlined.
(3) duhua-ne heku-kena du-thuka, duka
she-agt tree-branch 3sgn.f-break+tr 3sgf+arrive
du-pe-pidana du-kolota du-Ea diha-na-nuku
3sgf-let-rem.past.infr 3sgf-meet 3sgf-hit he-cl:vert-top.non.a/s
dhi-ni-na-nuku, kayu duhua
3sgn.f+copulate-top.adv-cl:vert-top.non.a/s, so she
du-Ea-ka-pidana, di-thuka-kha di-ruku
3sgf-hit-dep-rem.past.infr 3sgn.f-break+intr-away 3sgn.f-fall
di-a diha-na-ne
3sgn.f-go he-cl:vert-agt
She (the widow) broke a branch, she managed to hit (the evil spirit) on his
penis, after she did so, it (the penis) was breaking and falling off
2.3.2 Intransitive verbs
Intransitive verbs may be prefixed – Sa (active) – or prefixless – stative (So)
and verbs of physical states (Sio).
(a) Active (Sa) verbs include verbs of motion, stance, verbs of beginning and
finishing and a few others, e.g., -musu ‘go out’, -emhani ‘walk’, -kana ‘go’,
-nu ‘come’, -ma ‘sleep, close one’s eyes’, -keoa ‘start’, -sisa ‘be finished’.
See (4).
(4) nu-kuku nu-a
1sgSa-go down 1sgSa-go
I am going downstream
(b) Stative (So) verbs denote physical states, mostly involuntary results of
processes, e.g., lama ‘burn, get burnt’, leka ‘split’, ke:ka ‘split open’, hala
‘be open’. Any adjective or noun can be used as an So verb in the predicate
slot (see appendix 5.1), cf. (5).
150 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(5) nuha keku-mha
I angry-pres.non.vis
I am angry
(c) Verbs of physical state (Sio) form a small class; they denote physical
states, e.g., dai ‘be sleepy’, unina ‘be thirsty’, mhaisiki ‘be hungry’, mhaisiki
kai ‘be very hungry’ (lit. ‘ache of hunger’). They do not take cross-referencing
prefixes, and the Sio is marked by the -na case (see §2.1 and figure 5.1), if
expressed with a pronominal constituent, as in (6).
(6) dai-mha nu-na
be sleepy-pres.non.vis 1sg-obj
I am sleepy
These verb types differ as to their morphological properties, i.e. application
of transitivity-reducing and transitivity-increasing derivations.
3 Decreasing transitivity
Transitivity-decreasing operations in Tariana are the passive and the recip-
rocal. Reflexive is very limited in its application. These operations are applic-
able only to prefixed verbs (transitive and active intransitive).
3.1 Passive
Passive is marked with prefix ka- and suffix -kana (see §2.2). It can be
followed by an auxiliary verb -a ‘go, do, give’ which takes the subject prefix.
When a passive form is negated, ka- is replaced by ma- ‘negative’.
Passive derivation of transitive verbs has the following properties:
(a) a passive clause is active intransitive;
(b) the underlying O argument goes into Sa function and is cross-
referenced on the auxiliary verb;
(c) the underlying A of the transitive verb is demoted to the periphery
and may optionally be omitted, as in (7b) and (8); it takes non-
subject case-marking (i.e. if it is a pronoun it is marked by -na; and
if it is topical, it may also take -nuku, as in (12)).
If the verb is ditransitive, only ‘gift’ (not ‘recipient’) can acquire the Sa
function. (7b) is the passive of (7a).
(7) (a) wali-da episi-da-nuku nu-phya-ka di-na
new-cl:round iron-cl:round-top.non.a/s 1sg-buy-rec.past.vis 3sgn.f-obj
I bought him a new motor
Tariana 151
(b) wali-da episi-da ka-phya-kana-ka di-a
new-cl:round iron-cl:round rel-buy-pass-rec.past.vis 3sgn.f-aux
A new motor was bought
Passive derivation of an intransitive verb has impersonal reference. If there
is an auxiliary it takes 3rd person plural cross-referencing marker na-.
Passive is used when the underlying O argument is the topic of a stretch of
discourse. (8) comes from a narrative about what objects cannot be touched
and what one should not do before going hunting.
(8) ne inaku-ne mhahda-mha pa-kwa ne syawa
neg woman-ins proh-pres.non.vis imp-hang neg fire
ma-kuka-kana-de-mha
neg-light-pass-neg-pres.non.vis
One should not sleep (lit. hang in hammock) with a woman. The fire is
not lit.
(9) is an example of a passive with the A overtly marked. The Moon is
talking to a man who did what the Moon told him not to; the 2nd person
pronoun is the topic.
(9) phia pi-ni-ka nu-na ka-hEa-kana-mhade phia
you 2sg-do-dep 1sg-oblq rel-eat-pass-fut you
You having done (what I told you not to), you will be eaten by me
Impersonal passive formed on intransitive verbs is widely used in general
statements, e.g. (10) and (11):
(10) ma-whawheta-kana-de wha ita-whya-misini-nuku
neg-rest-pass-neg our canoe-cl:canoe-too-top.non.a/s
mema-kana-de na
neg+sleep-pass-neg 3pl+aux
One does not rest on our canoe, too, one does not sleep
(11) kiaku ma-kama-kana-de-na
strong neg-get.drunk-pass-neg-rem.past.vis
One did not get really drunk (on a certain type of manioc beer)
Another function of the passive can be called ‘switch-reference’ feeding.
In complex sentences, passive may be used in the main clause if the subordin-
ate clause contains a sequencing enclitic which requires the same subject in
the two clauses. Passive is used to bring a non-subject argument into subject
function so that a sequencing enclitic which requires same subject can be used.
(12) illustrates the use of passive in the main clause, when the subordinate
152 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
clause contains the sequencing enclitic -hyume ‘after, because’ which requires
the same subject. In this case, passive can be considered a ‘switch-reference’
feeding operation. In (12), the underlying A is marked with -nuku ‘topical
non-subject’, since it belongs to the topic of the narrative. The passive form
is underlined.
(12) di-pumi dihya salu peme di-ka-hyume di-na
3sgn.f-after he armadillo one+side 3sgn.f-see-after:ss 3sgn.f-obj
yawi-nuku ka-Ea-kana-pu-pidana di-a
jaguar-top.non.a/s rel-hit-pass-aug-rem.past.infr 3sgn.f-aux
Because after that (after the jaguar tore away his eye) the armadillo could
only see on one side, he was badly beaten by the jaguar
3.2 Reciprocal -kaka
Reciprocal marked with a suffix -kaka is used under the following syntactic
conditions.
(a) When added to transitive verbs with plural A, it makes the verb intrans-
itive, and indicates that A is identical to O and the action is symmetrical. This
is a straightforward reciprocal; it has one core argument, in S function. If one
of the participants (in the S function) is in focus, it can be overtly expressed
and is then marked with suffix -ne ‘instrumental; comitative’, as an oblique.
Compare the transitive verb in (13) and its reciprocal version in (14) (under-
lined). (14) means that the elder brother and the younger brother encountered
each other; the younger brother is in contrastive focus as a recently introduced
participant.
(13) ne-pidana yawaku di-kolota dhipa dina
then-rem.past.infr Yawaru 3sgn.f-meet 3sgn.f+take 3sgn.f-obj
e:ta-nuku
eagle-top.non.a/s
Then Yawaru grabbed (lit. met-took) the eagle
(14) di-we-ki-ne na-kolota-kaka-sina
3sgn.f-younger sibling-m-ins 3pl-meet-recip-rem.past.non.vis
They met each other, with his younger brother (i.e. older brother and younger
brother met each other; the older brother met the younger brother, and not
somebody else)
(b) When added to a transitive verb with a singular subject, the -kaka
derivation also makes the verb intransitive; the action implies multiple par-
ticipants. The verb -inu means ‘kill, fight’; in (15) it is used with -kaka in the
meaning of ‘fighting in a war’ (lit. ‘kill / fight with lots of people’).
Tariana 153
(15) nuhua pi-sa-niki nu-a-ka nu-inu-kaka
I 2sg-spouse-m 1sg-go-rec.past.vis 1sg-kill-recip
kasina-wya-nuku
now-just-top.non.a/s
I, your husband, have gone to fight war just now
(c) When -kaka is added to an intransitive verb, the verb remains intrans-
itive; it then implies the participation of multiple participants and also the
presence of oblique argument(s). (16) illustrates an intransitive use of -nalita
‘be quarrelsome, quarrel’. In (17), the same verb appears with the reciprocal
marker -kaka and means ‘quarrel with each other’. The oblique argument is
in focus and is marked with -ne ‘instrumental, comitative’, like in (14).
(16) di-nalita kiaku
3sgn.f-quarrel strong
He was very quarrelsome
(17) di-ne-pidana na na-nalita-kaka
3sgn.f-ins-rem.past.infr 3pl+go 3pl-quarrel-recip
They (Tariana tribes) quarrelled with him (the first-born son)
Unlike passive, reciprocal does not make an intransitive verb impersonal
(i.e. it does not reduce valency of the intransitive verb).
The suffix -kaka is occasionally used with a transitive verb to mark reflex-
ive. The usual way of expressing a reflexive meaning consists in simply using
a transitive verb intransitively. A transitive use of -pisa ‘cut’ is shown in
(18); its intransitive use with a reflexive reading in (19).
(18) diwhida na-pisa na-pala-pidana
3sgn.f+head 3pl-cut 3pl-put-rem.past.infr
They cut its (the snake’s) head and put it (down)
(19) maliye-ne nu-pisa-makha-niki
knife-ins 1sg-cut-rec.past.non.vis-completive
I cut myself with a knife
A -kaka reflexive with a transitive verb -pisa is shown in (20).
(20) nu-pisa-kaka-mha
1sg-cut-refl/recip-pres.non.vis
I have just cut myself
There are reasons to believe that the reflexive use of -kaka is on its way out
in Tariana, due to areal diffusional patterns from East Tucano languages. All
other neighbouring North-Arawak languages have one intransitivizing deriva-
tion used for marking reflexives and reciprocals (Aikhenvald forthcoming-a).
154 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
In contrast, East Tucano languages have a reflexive pronoun, and use serial
verb constructions, or verb compounding, for marking reciprocals (Aikhenvald
forthcoming-b). Tariana is gradually becoming more similar to East Tucano
by differentiating reciprocals from reflexives.
3.3 Summary
Table 5.1 summarizes correlations between valency-reducing mechanisms
and verb types.
Table 5.1. Valency-reducing mechanisms and verb types
Verb types Passives Reciprocals Reflexives
transitive yes yes (yes)
intransitive Sa yes yes no
intransitive So no no no
intransitive Sio no no no
Transitivity-decreasing derivations apply only to prefixed verbs (they can-
not apply to transitive prefixless verbs). These derivations provide an import-
ant clue for distinguishing core constituents from oblique – they affect
only core arguments: A/Sa and O. Arguments other than these (e.g. ‘recipient’
for ditransitive verbs, or oblique constituents) cannot be passivized or
‘reciprocalized’.
4 Increasing transitivity
Typically for an Amazonian language, Tariana has more valency-increasing
mechanisms than valency-decreasing ones. There is a morphological causat-
ive typically used with intransitive verbs, a serial causative construction and
two types of periphrastic causative. All these causative constructions are
functionally and formally distinct, and show intricate interrelations as to the
role of the causer, that of the causee, and the properties of predicate classes.
These are discussed in §4.1–4.3 and contrasted in §4.4.
The use of the morphological causative with transitive verbs correlates
with the promotion of an oblique argument into the core; it also makes
ambitransitive verbs strictly transitive. Thus, the causative morpheme, when
added to a transitive verb, marks a kind of argument-adding derivation – see
§4.5.
Tariana 155
4.1 Morphological causatives
4.1.1 Morphological causatives and active intransitive verbs
Morphological causatives are regularly formed on active intransitive verbs
(Sa type). They are marked with a suffix -i-ta which follows the thematic
suffix. Their semantics is usually quite straightforward, e.g. -eku ‘run’, -eku-
ita ‘make run’; -yena ‘pass’, -yeneta (from -yena-i-ta) ‘make pass’; -musu
‘go out’, -musu-i-ta ‘make go out, drive out’; -thaka ‘cross’, -thaketa ‘make
cross’; -kukume ‘tremble’, -kukumeta ‘make tremble’. Occasionally, a morpho-
logical causative can acquire an idiosyncratic meaning, e.g. -pusuka ‘be
muddled, confused’, -pusuketa ‘muddle, confuse, gossip’; -oami ‘die’, -oameta
‘abort a baby’. A morphological causative of the verb -pita ‘have a bath’ is
illustrated in (21). See §4.1.4 for the explanation of a ‘double’ causative.
(21) di-pumi nha-ma-pe-nuku maini-ne na-Eapa
3sgn.f-after they-cl:f-pl-top.non.a/s tar-ins 3pl-bless
na-pite-ta-mha na-yj naka
3pl-have.a.bath+caus1-caus2-pres.non.vis 3pl-go.up 3pl+arrive
After they (old people) bless them (menstruating girls) with tar, they make
them bathe upstream
4.1.2 Morphological causatives, stative verbs and verbs of physical state
Morphological causatives can be formed on stative (So) verbs if the meaning
of the verb presupposes a state changeable through the intervention of a
causer. Verbs denoting physical state and emotions belong to this class, e.g.
sakamu ‘be luke-warm’, causative -sakamu-ita ‘warm up’; hiwiki ‘be cool’,
causative -hiwikiketa ‘cool down (e.g. by stirring)’; makaka ‘be dry’, causative
-makaketa ‘to dry’; -pusa ‘be wet’, causative -pusita ‘wetten, moisten’; inasua
‘be lazy or weak’, inasueta ‘make lazy, weaken’. So also do So verbs which
imply change of state, e.g. kawhi ‘be awake, wake up’, causative -kawheta ‘to
wake (somebody) up’; hiku ‘appear’, causative hikweta ‘create, make come
into being’.
Verbs which refer to an inherently unchangeable state cannot form a
morphological causative. Thus, no morphological causative can be formed
on verbs describing physical states such as colour: hale ‘be white’, kada ‘be
black’, iri ‘be red’; physical properties: hamu ‘be hot’, hape ‘be cold’; size:
hanu ‘be big’, &u ‘be small’; taste: hipisi ‘be bitter’; value: ma*a ‘be good’;
other physical states, e.g. kasitana ‘be annoyed’. Note that in Tariana stative
verbs which denote such concepts as ‘cool’ and ‘luke-warm’ belong to a
different system from ‘cold’ and ‘hot’.
156 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Sio verbs also cannot form a morphological causative (e.g. unyana ‘be
thirsty’, mhaisiki ‘be hungry’, inuna ‘be lazy’). Serial causative constructions
are then used.
Morphological causatives of So verbs can be prefixed or prefixless, depend-
ing on whether the the result is achieved intentionally, or not. For instance,
the action of warming something up, or toasting food is perceived as inten-
tional; corresponding causative verbs are prefixed. (22) shows an So verb
meri ‘be toasted, dry’; its causative counterpart is prefixed (23).
(22) ke:ki-ne-mha pana-phe meki
sun-ins-pres.non.vis leaf-cl:leaf.like be.toasted
The leaf is dry (lit. toasted) because of the sun
(23) pa-ita kuphe di-mekita-ka
one-cl:anim fish 3sgn.f-be.toasted+caus-rec.past.vis
He has toasted one fish
In contrast to this, ‘weakening’ is achieved unintentionally, and the result-
ing causative verb is prefixless, e.g. (24).
(24) adaki nu-na inasueta-mahka
fever 1sg-obj be.weak/lazy+caus-rec.past.non.vis
Fever weakened me
Some morphological causatives can be assigned to both Sa and So classes.
If they are prefixless, the result is achieved unintentionally. In (25), a dog
barks, and this frightens the speaker; the dog did not mean to frighten him.
(25) ninu nu-na hakameta di-kwisa-ka
dog 1sg-obj fear+caus 3sgn.f-bark-rec.past.vis
The dog scared me, it barked
In contrast, in (26), a mythical character used to go out every afternoon to
frighten people intentionally. The morphological causative is prefixed.
(26) daikina-pe hhda-pada-pidana na-na di-kahmeta
afternoon-pl every-aff-rem.past.infr 3pl-obj 3sgn.f-fear+caus
di-Ea-nhi
3sgn.f-stay-imperf
He used to frighten them (villagers) every afternoon (with his cries)
Activities typical for mythical creatures are usually unintentional. It is
believed that a new moon makes women menstruate (then they become dan-
gerous); this typical activity is illustrated in (27a). A further explanation is
provided by the speaker in (27b): that a woman menstruates is a natural result
of her having sexual intercourse with the Moon.
Tariana 157
(27) (a) hh depite keki hiku-ka wali-pi
this:anim night+cl:anim moon appear-dep young-cl:long
keki-nuku ina-nuku puimeta-mha
moon-top.non.a/s woman:pl-top.non.a/s menstruate+caus-pres.non.vis
When this moon appears, during young moon, it makes women menstruate
(b) hh keki di-thi-kayami hh
this:anim moon 3sgn.f-have.intercourse-after:ds this:anim
ina puima-mha
woman:pl be menstruating-pres.non.vis
After the moon has intercourse (with woman), these women menstruate
The correlation between prefixed and prefixless morphological causatives
and intentionality of the causer is reminiscent of fluid-S languages. It is
noteworthy that Baniwa, a North-Arawak language very closely related to
Tariana, and spoken in the adjacent linguistic area, also displays some ele-
ments of fluid-S marking (see Aikhenvald 1995).
4.1.3 Morphological causatives and transitive verbs
Morphological causatives can be formed on very few transitive verbs.8
Almost
all of these refer to traditional actions performed during rituals. The only
exception is -ika ‘drink’ with the corresponding causative -iketa ‘make drink,
make drunk’.9
These are shown in (28) and (29).
(28) kasina-nuku na:-sina naha na-ika-kaku
now-top.non.a/s 3pl+go-rem.past.non.vis they 3pl-drink-res
kapi na-kulika-kaku
ritual.whisky 3pl-be.painted-res
Now they all went to drink ritual whisky and to paint themselves
(29) ne-pidana di-na ika-kasi dike-ta-daka
then-rem.past.infr 3sgn.f-obj drink-nom 3sgn.f+drink+caus1-caus2-yet
And yet he gave him a drink
Other transitive verbs which have a morphological causative are: -sita
‘smoke a traditional cigar’, causative -siteta ‘get one’s partner to smoke in
the cigar-smoking ritual’; -eme ‘sniff snuff’, causative -emeta ‘get someone
8
The causer becomes A, while both underlying A and O of the causativized verb get marked
with the non-subject case. Since a morphological causative of a transitive verb cannot be
passivized, there is no way of determining whether these two arguments are direct or indirect
object(s).
9
In closely related languages the morphological causative is usually formed on intransitive
verbs only. The only exception is ‘drink’ (Baniwa -iBa, Bare -dia, Warekena -kulua). Cross-
linguistically, verbs describing digestive processes often display abnormal behaviour with
regard to their transitivity (Ken Hale, p.c.).
158 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
to sniff snuff’; -oapa ‘bless’, causative -oapeta ‘get a shaman, or an older
man, to bless someone’; -peru ‘lick tobacco from partner’s tongue in the
cigar-smoking ritual’, causative -perita ‘get someone to lick tobacco from
partner’s tongue’. (30) shows the verb -sita ‘smoke’; (31) is an example of
the causative -siteta, from a narrative about the tobacco-smoking ritual.
(30) yema di-sita-naka
tobacco 3sgn.f-smoke-pres.vis
He is smoking tobacco
(31) nuri nuhua yema nu-de-ka nuhua pi-na yema
1sg+son I tobacco 1sg-have-dep I 2sg-obj tobacco
nu-site-ta-de
1sg-smoke+caus1-caus2-fut
My son, when I have tobacco, I will get you to smoke (this) tobacco
That morphological causatives of transitive verbs are mostly used with
verbs which describe highly ritualized traditional activities suggests that they
are archaic.
The same suffix, -i-ta, is used as a marker of argument-adding derivation
with transitive verbs. Some verbs can form both a morphological causative
and an argument-adding derivation – see §4.5.
4.1.4 ‘Double causative’ marking and further functions of -i-ta
Causativizing -i-ta in Tariana can be further analysed into -i and -ta. While
-i is a straightforward marker of causative, addition of -ta has two functions
with prefixed verbs (with prefixless verbs, only -ita is used). Firstly, -ta may
imply complete affectedness of O. In (32) devils fell some woodchips; -ta is
not used.
(32) na-kuku-i-pidana naha inida-pe-ne
3pl-fall-caus-rem.past.infr they turtle-pl-ins
They (devils) made (some woodchips) fall down with the help of turtles
(axes)
In contrast, in (33) the house was completely destroyed; -ta is used on the
causativized verb -kuku ‘go down’:
(33) phia nuha panisi-nuku pi-Ea-bala
you I house-top.non.a/s 2sg-hit-everywhere
pi-kuku-i-ta-ka
2sg-go.down-caus1-caus2-decl
You destroyed my house completely (lit. hit everywhere – make come down)
(said the evil spirit to a man in his dream)
Tariana 159
Secondly, -ta is used on a causativized verb if the action is completed and
its spatial extent is large. In (34) the magic spell is cast a little bit, and so -ta
is not used; in (35) it is done a lot.
(34) ne-pidana na-whya na-sue-nha nha tu:me-ne
then-rem.past.infr 3pl-breathe 3pl-stay+caus-pausal they breath-ins
Then they breathed (over the village) with their (magic) breath (i.e. cast a
spell)
(35) na: oome na-whyã-ka na-sue-ta-pidana
3pl+go much 3pl-breathe-dep 3pl-stay+caus1-caus2-rem.past.infr
na-na adaki-kuma-pidana na-sue-ta
3pl-obj fever-cl:rite-rem.past.infr 3pl-stay+caus1-caus2
They cast a big spell, they cast a fever spell all over them
In (36) action is not completed; in (37) it is. Both come from the same text.
(36) kwana ha-na hyapa-na kheta ka-thake
who this-cl:vert hill-cl:vert rel+take rel-cross+caus
peme-kema-se nu-itu-nuku ka-sa-do-mhade
one side-cl:side-loc 1sg-daughter-top.non.a/s rel-spouse-f-fut
Who takes the hill across to the other side will marry my daughter
(37) nuhua-ka nhuta nu-thake-ta
I-decl 1sg+take 1sg-cross+caus1-caus2
I am the one who took (the hill) across (said the soldier)
Suffix -i-ta is also used to derive transitive verbs from nouns and adject-
ives, e.g. sie ‘firewood’, -sieta ‘put on fire’; kepitana ‘name’, -pitaneta ‘give
a name, name’; kape ‘ritual stick’, -kapeta ‘hit with a ritual stick’. In other
Arawak languages of the region, e.g. Warekena and Bare, -(i)ta is the only
causative marker.
4.2 Causative serial verb constructions
Causative constructions in serializing languages require ‘that the object of
one verb and the subject of another be coreferential’ (Foley and Olson 1985:
25; Crowley 1987: 38–9). Most often, the components of a serial verb con-
struction have independent inflection; they cross-reference the two different
semantic subjects. Such a construction in Paamese (called ‘switch-subject’
serial constructions: Crowley 1987) is shown in (38) (Crowley 1987: 48,
ex. 27).
(38) kaiko ko-muasi-nau nau-vaa netano
2sg 2sg-real.hit-1sg 1sg-real.go down
You hit me down (lit. you hit – I fall)
160 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
The other technique, labelled ‘concordant dependent inflection’ (Durie 1997)
involves putting the same subject marking on all the components of a serial
verb construction.10
This is the way causative serial constructions are marked
in Tariana. The components of a serial syntactic causative construction have
different underlying subjects, realized as the same subject in the surface form.
The subject of the verb of causation is cross-referenced on the two verbs
which form a causative serial verb construction.
The underlying subject of the causativized verb, if expressed with a per-
sonal pronoun, is marked with the object case, e.g. di-na (3sgn.f-obj) ‘him’
in (39); if it is expressed with a noun which is topical, it can be marked with
-nuku ‘topical non A/S’, as in (40).
The serial causative construction can be used with transitive and active
intransitive verbs; it is never used with a stative verb (So) or a verb of phys-
ical state (Sio). The most frequent verbs of causation used in serial causative
constructions are -ika ‘order’, as in (39), -wana ‘call’ and -mataka ‘allow,
give permission’, or the abstract verb of causation -a, as in (40).
(39) di-na taliwa naka-ka na-phya diha nawiki
3sgn.f-obj flute 3pl+order-dep 3pl-whistle he man
dika-pidana
3sgn.f+drink-rem.past.infr
After they ordered the man to play a flute (lit. whistle a flute), the man drank
(40) nu-inipe-nuku kwaka-mhade nu-a nu-hEa
1sg-children-top.non.a/s how-fut 1sg-make 1sg-eat
How will I get my children to eat (if I can’t hunt anything)?
Serial causative constructions have the following properties of a single
predicate, as do all serial verb constructions in Tariana:
(i) They have the intonational properties of a monoverbal clause, and
not of a sequence of clauses.
(ii) They can be distinguished from subordination or coordination,
or complex predicates, since they contain no markers of syntactic
dependency.
(iii) They share tense/aspect, modality, evidentiality and polarity value,
i.e. verbs which form a serial construction cannot receive independ-
10
This technique is rather rare in the languages of the world; such a construction was reported
for Akan by Schachter (1974: 258–9), e.g.:
mede aburow migu msum
I-take corn I-flow water-in
I pour corn into water (lit. I take corn I flow in water)
Tariana 161
ent marking for these categories. In (41) there is just one negative
marker in a causative serial construction. It is ambiguous: it could
mean either ‘he did not order to kill many fish’, or ‘he ordered not to
kill many fish (to kill just a few)’. It is clear from the context of the
narrative that the latter translation is the right one.
(41) hanupe-se maka-kade-ka dinu diha-yawa
many-contrast neg+order-neg-rec.past.vis 3sgn.f+kill he-cl:hole
i-minali du-a-tha-pidana
indef-master 3sgf-say-frust-rem.past.infr
The master of the (water)hole ordered not to kill many (fish)’, said she (the
widow) in vain
Serial causative constructions are the only productive mechanism used to
causativize transitive verbs, alongside periphrastic causatives.
They are also used to causativize active intransitive verbs which have a
morphological causative. Then, a serial causative construction implies indir-
ect involvement of the causer, and a morphological causative implies that the
causer acts directly on the causee. Example (21) contains a morphological
causative of the verb -pita ‘bathe’; there the old people physically make pub-
escent girls bathe as a part of the ritual of female initiation. In contrast, in (42)
the evil mother ordered her children to bathe without physical interference.
(42) na:-na duka du-pita du-yã-nhi
3pl-obj 3sgf+order 3sgf-bathe 3sgf-stay-imperf
She ordered them to bathe
Serial constructions of a different kind are used to causativize Sio verbs.
In these constructions, the verb -eme-ta ‘put’ (a morphological causative of
-ema ‘stand’) is used as the verb of causation. In (43), a serial construction
consists of an Sio verb mhaisiki ‘be hungry’ and -eme-ta. Unlike serial caus-
ative constructions with transitive and active intransitive verbs, the verb of
causation follows the Sio verb. (Note that plural marking on nouns is optional
if the referent is not human.)
(43) diha kewiki-mha nu-na mhaisiki neme-ta
he ant-pres.non.vis 1sg-obj be.hungry 3pl+stand+caus1-caus2
The (edible) ants make me (feel) hungry
4.3 Periphrastic causatives
There are two kinds of periphrastic causatives – those with an optional de-
pendency marker (§4.3.1), and those with an obligatory dependency marker
162 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(§4.3.2). The reasons why periphrastic causatives are not serial verb construc-
tions are given in §4.3.2. Periphrastic causatives are used with intransitive
verbs of Sa and So types.
4.3.1 Periphrastic causatives with an optional dependency marker
I mentioned above that So verbs which refer to an inherently unchangeable
state (colour, physical properties such as size or taste, etc.; see §4.1) cannot
form a morphological causative. Periphrastic causatives which contain the
verb of causation -ni ‘do, make’ are used to causativize these stative verbs.
The dependency marker -ka can optionally be used on the causativized stative
verb, with no semantic difference. (44) is an example of a periphrastic causat-
ive used without a dependency marker; (45) is an example with one.11
In each
case periphrastic causatives are underlined.
(44) phia pi-ka kaya wa-na pedalia-ma-pe di-ni
you 2sg-see so 1pl-obj be.old-cl:f-pl 3sgn.f-make
In front of you (lit. so that you saw) he made us into old women
(45) nawiki ka:da-ka-naka pi-ni phia
person be.black-dep-vis.pres 2sg-make you
You make people black (said the Moon to the Sun)
4.3.2 Periphrastic causatives with an obligatory dependency marker
Periphrastic causatives with the verb of causation -ni ‘do, make’ formed
on intransitive active verbs, and on stative ones which refer to changeable
properties, require a dependency marker. They imply a special effort by the
causer and/or unwillingness of the causee to bring about the activity. This is
illustrated with (46). The subject (a female evil spirit) had to make a special
effort to achieve the result. The dependency marker -ka on the causativized
verb is obligatory. Its omission results in an ungrammatical sentence.
(46) hh ma:nite-thasika nu-na ikasu depita
dem:anim bad+cl:anim-frust:mal 1sg-obj now night+adv
mema-kade-ka du-ni-paka
neg+sleep-neg-dep 3sgf-make-in.vain
This bad one (female evil spirit disguised as a bird) kept me awake (lit.
made me sleep in vain) this night
In contrast, (47) involves no dependency marker; here the result is achieved
with the help of the magic power of the cigar, without any special effort. The
11
Periphrastic causatives are quite regular; for instance the name for ‘freezer’ in Tariana is a
nominalized periphrastic causative with a dependency marker: uni hape-ka ka-ni-ni-pasole
‘water cold-dep rel-make-top.adv-cl:bag’.
Tariana 163
corresponding morphological causative of the verb -ima ‘close eyes / sleep’ is
used here.
(47) di-na mania yema-ne neme-ta
3sgn.f-obj well cigar-ins 3pl+close eyes / sleep+caus1-caus2
They made him really asleep with a cigar (i.e. through a cigar-smoking
ritual)
Similarly, a morphological causative of a stative verb which refers to change-
able properties describes effortless causation: in (48) a dog makes someone
angry without doing anything special, just by barking.
(48) ninu nu-na ke:ku-neta-mahka
dog 1sg-obj be.angry-aff+caus-rec.past.non.vis
The dog made me angry
In contrast, a periphrastic causative implies special efforts undertaken to
make the evil spirit angry, as in (49).
(49) nuhua keweki-peri nu-ni-ka Eamu-nuku keku-ka
I fried-coll 1sg-make-dep evil spirit-top.non.a/s angry-dep
nu-ni-mahka
1sg-make-rec.past.non.vis
After I prepared a fried dish, I made an evil spirit angry
Periphrastic causatives do not qualify as serial verb constructions for the
following reasons.
(i) Every verb in a periphrastic causative construction is marked for its
surface and underlying subject independently, as in (50). In a causative serial
verb construction the subject of the verb of causation is cross-referenced on
both verbs.
(ii) The two components of a periphrastic causative may have an independ-
ent tense/aspect/aktionsart value, and get independent marking for these cat-
egories. Each component can be negated separately, as in (46). In (50), -mha
‘non-visual present’ goes on -kena ‘feel’, and -yha ‘approximative’ character-
izes the verb of causation -ni ‘do, make’:
(50) nu-na ma:ni nu-kena-ka-mha i-ni-yha
1sg-obj bad 1sg-feel-dep-pres.non.vis 2pl-do-appr
‘You made me feel miserable a little bit’, i.e. ‘you did a little bit for
me to feel miserable’ (said the mother to the young man who had
gone to live with snakes)
164 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(iii) Periphrastic causatives do not have the intonational properties of a
monoverbal clause; a pausal marker can be inserted after every verb.
(iv) Unlike serial causative constructions, periphrastic causatives with a
dependency marker cannot be considered one predicate, because there is a
subordinating marker on one of the components.12
4.4 Causative mechanisms in Tariana: a comparison
Tariana has four causativizing mechanisms: morphological causatives, serial
causative constructions and two types of periphrastic causatives. They have
different semantics and are in a partial complementary distribution as to the
verb types. Figure 5.2 summarizes the distribution of causatives among classes
of verbs, and their semantics.
Of all verb types, So and Sio verbs have the most restrictions on caus-
ativization.
• morphological causatives are productively formed on intransitive active
(Sa) and stative (So) verbs which refer to changeable qualities. There are just
a few instances of morphological causatives on transitive verbs which describe
traditional activities. Morphological causatives of stative verbs can change
a verb from prefixless to prefixed, if the causer is acting intentionally. This
semantic parameter is cross-linguistically well attested (see Dixon’s typological
survey in chapter 2).
All prefixed verbs can have double causative marking which implies com-
plete involvement of O, and completeness of action.
• serial causative constructions are used to form causatives of transitive
and intransitive active verbs using a number of verbs of causation; they are
also used to causativize Sio verbs. Only with intransitive active verbs do serial
causative constructions imply indirect causation (in contrast to morphological
and periphrastic causatives). Serial verb constructions are the only product-
ive mechanism available for causativizing transitive verbs and the verbs of
Sio type.
• periphrastic causatives formed with the verb of causation -ni ‘do, make’
with an optional dependency marker on the causativized verb are used to
causativize stative verbs which refer to unchangeable properties.
• periphrastic causatives with an obligatory dependency marker are
used to form causatives of intransitive active verbs and stative verbs referring
to changeable properties, and imply a forceful causer, unwillingness on the
part of the causee, and direct causation (see chapter 2).
12
Periphrastic causatives are found more frequently in texts and other data from younger speakers,
so some sort of influence from Portuguese cannot be excluded.
Tariana 165
Figure 5.2. Causativizing mechanisms, verb types and their semantics
I Verbs taking morphological or periphrastic causatives (with the verb of causation
-ni ‘do, make’ and obligatory -ka)
(a) Morphological (-i-ta) Stative So verbs remain stative:
Stative verbs (So) causer non-intentional
referring to changeable Stative So verbs becomes active (Sa):
properties causer intentional
(b) Periphrastic
Stative verbs (So) referring forceful causer
to changeable properties unwilling causee
direct causation
II Verbs taking morphological causative or periphrastic causative (verb of causa-
tion -ni ‘do, make’ and obligatory -ka) or serial verb constructions
(a) Morphological (-i-ta)
suffix -i: non-complete action
or non-complete involvement of O
active intransitive (Sa)
and some transitive verbs
suffixes -i-ta: complete action
or involvement of O
(b) Periphrastic
active intransitive (Sa) forceful causer
and some transitive verbs unwilling causee
direct causation
(c) Causative serial verb constructions
active intransitive (Sa) indirect causation
and some transitive verbs
III Verbs taking no morphological causative, only periphrastic causative (verb of
causation -ni ‘do, make’ and optional -ka)
(a) Periphrastic
Stative verbs (So) referring to unchangeable properties
IV Verbs taking no morphological causative, only causative serial verb constructions
(a) Causative serial verb constructions
Most transitive verbs
V Verbs taking no morphological causative, only serial verb constructions with
-eme-ta ‘put’
(a) Causative serial verb constructions
Verbs of physical state (Sio)
There is a cross-linguistic tendency among languages of the world for
periphrastic causatives to express causation which involves a special effort
on the part of a causer and, possibly, unwillingness on the part of the causee
(see §5 of chapter 2 above; and also Haiman 1983). Morphological causatives
tend to express direct causation. Tariana conforms to this tendency. In lan-
guages which distinguish morphological and periphrastic causatives, the latter
166 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
also tend to express indirect causation (§5 in chapter 2). In the case when
there are three causativizing mechanisms available – i.e., for Sa type and for
some transitive verbs – Tariana uses serial verb constructions for this purpose.
4.5 Argument-adding derivation
When -i-ta is added to intransitive verbs and a limited number of transitive
verbs, it has causativizing effect. When added to the majority of transitive
verbs, it has two, quite different, effects.
4.5.1 Ambitransitive verbs become obligatory transitives when they
receive the transitivizer -i-ta
It was mentioned in §2 that all transitive verbs in Tariana are A = S
ambitransitives. Strictly transitive verbs are the ones which contain the
transitivizer -i-ta.
4.5.2 When -i-ta is added onto a transitive verb, it also indicates that a
peripheral constituent has to be obligatorily stated in the clause
This constituent may be (a) addressee, (b) location, (c) purpose and/or instru-
ment. Its choice depends on the semantics of a verb.
The following examples illustrate this.
(a) Addressee. The transitive verb -hoa means ‘point at’ – see (51).
(51) diha kapao-ne di-hEa di-a-pidana
he harpoon-ins 3sgn.f-show 3sgn.f-go-rem.past.infr
He (the liar) pointed with his harpoon (at an otter which he wanted others to
believe to be a fish)
Its counterpart with -i-ta means ‘show something to somebody’:
(52) nuhua-de pi-na nu-a nu-hg-ta
1sg-fut 2sg-obj 1sg-go 1sg-show+caus1-caus2
I will show you (the way out of the jungle)
(b) Location. The transitive verb -pala means ‘get, put’ (53); when -i-ta
is added, -paleta means ‘put in a particular location’, as in (54).
(53) diwhida na-pisa na-pala-pidana
3sgn.f+head 3pl-cut 3pl-put-rem.past.infr
They cut his head and put (it) somewhere
(54) ita-whya hi-nuku pi-pale-ta
canoe-cl:canoe dem:anim-top.non.a/s 2sg-put+caus1-caus2
Put the canoe here
Tariana 167
(c) Purpose and/or instrument. The addition of -i-ta marks the obliga-
toriness of a purpose with other verbs. The transitive verb -wana, used with-
out -i-ta, means ‘call’, ‘emit sound’, as in (55), or ‘call (for no particular
purpose)’, as in (56), or ‘call a name’, as in (57).
(55) di-wana di-nu-pidana III! di-a-pidana
3sgn.f-call 3sgn.f-come-rem.past.infr III! 3sgn.f-say-rem.past.infr
The spirit called as he came, ‘III’, he said
(56) ne di-sa-do-nuku di-wana-tha-pidana hãwa
then 3sgn.f-spouse-f-top.non.a/s 3sgn.f-call-frust-rem.past.infr eagle
Then the eagle called his wife(’s name) (in vain)
(57) naha hh wa-kesi-pe takia wa-na ine-ne na
they dem:anim 1pl-relative-pl Tariana 1pl-obj ‘devil’-pl 3pl-say
na-wana-naka
3pl-call-pres.vis
Our relatives, [also] Tariana, call us ‘devils’
When -wana is used with -i-ta, giving -wane(-ta), it means ‘call for some-
thing’, as shown in (58).
(58) na-wane-ta-pidana diha yakale-peni diha
3pl-call+caus1-caus2-rem.past.infr he village-pl:anim he
katu-nuku na-hEa-kasu
piraiba.fish-top.non.a/s 3pl-eat-intentional
The villagers called him to eat piraiba fish
Or it may mean ‘call with the help of something’. Example (59) is a
description of evil habits of a feared tribe, Makiritare, who are reported to
excel in magical practice; they call rain this way.
(59) wheku neme iya-nuku na-wane
snuff 3pl+sniff rain-top.non.a/s 3pl-call+caus
They sniff snuff, (this is how) they call rain
The verb -wapa means ‘attend to, serve or wait’, as in (60); -wape(-ta)
means ‘wait with something, or for a particular purpose’. This is shown in
(61) and (62).
(60) wasã dapa wa-wapa di-a-pidana
let’s paca 1pl-wait 3sgn.f-say-rem.past.infr
Let’s wait for a paca (a large rodent) (to come along)’, he said
(61) i-na pa-hEa-nipe-ne-ka nu-wape-ta nuhua
2pl-obj imp-eat-nomzr-ins-decl 1sg-wait+caus1-caus2 I
I am waiting for you with food
168 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
(62) mawali-nuku na:-ka na-wape-ta
snake-top.non.a/s 3pl+go-decl 3pl-wait+caus1-caus2
na-walita-kaku-pena-nuku
3pl-offer-res-ben-top.non.a/s
They were going to wait for another snake for a ritual offering
The meaning of -i-ta derivation may be rather idiosyncratic. With a number
of verbs, it implies the presence of a speech complement; for instance, -mayã
means ‘act in a false, treacherous way’, while mayg(-ta) means ‘tell a lie’;
-ira means ‘order’, and -ireta means ‘order by saying something’.
Thus, the morpheme which marks the causative of intransitive and just a
few transitive verbs is used to mark a kind of argument-adding derivation
when used with transitive verbs.
In §4.1 we saw four transitive verbs which refer to traditional activities and
form a morphological causative with -i-ta. In just one case, the argument-
adding or causative reading of -i-ta derivation depends on which constituent
is present in the surface structure.13
The transitive verb -oapa ‘bless’, without
-i-ta, is illustrated in (63). The O is omitted.
(63) diha-kuma khema-kali na-Eapa-sina
he-cl:rite rel+hear-past.part 3pl-bless-rem.past.non.vis
Those who understand the ritual, used to bless (do the blessing)
If just an O constituent is present, the -i-ta derivation has a causative
reading, as in (64).
(64) waha haniki-nuku Kose
we father-top.non.a/s Concessão
du-Eape-ta-sina duki-nuku
3sgf-bless+caus1-caus2-rem.past.non.vis 3sgf+son-top.non.a/s
Concessão made our father bless her son (to cure him)
It has an argument-adding reading if there is an overt instrumental con-
stituent (65).
(65) maini-ne na-Eape-ta
tar-ins 3pl-bless+caus1-caus2
They blessed (the game) with tar
13
Different readings are impossible for -sita/-siteta, -eme/emeta, and -peru/-perita because these
verbs are restricted to traditional stories.
Tariana 169
The choice between argument-adding and causative reading is often achieved
by context. In (66), the -i-ta derivation has a causative reading, because it
is ‘common knowledge’ that Yunuli is a shaman. In contrast, (67) has an
argument-adding reading, because this is what the Moon is supposed to do.
(66) nu-whida kai-kayami yunuli-nuku nu-Eape-ta
1sg-head ache-after:ds Yunuli-top.non.a/s 1sg-bless+caus1-caus2
Because my head ached, I made Yunuli bless [me]
(67) ke:ki di-Eape-ta-ka wa-na
moon 3sgn.f-bless+caus1-caus2-rec.past.vis 1pl-obj
Moon has blessed us [with its power, for a trip] (said before people go on a
trip, to make sure it is safe)
There are cases in which, if the context is unknown, both readings are
possible. For instance, di-oapeta could be understood both as ‘he made some-
one bless someone else’, or ‘he blessed someone with the help of something,
or for some purpose’; note that this homonymy can be solved in a number of
ways. (68) can only be understood as ‘hei got someone else to bless himi but
hei died anyway’ because the subordinating enclitic -nikhe can only be used if
both clauses have the same subject.
(68) di-Eape-ta-nikhe di-Eami di-a
3sgn.f-bless+caus1-caus2-in spite:ss 3sgn.f-die 3sgn.f-go
Though hei had made (someone) bless himi, hei died
Argument-adding -i-ta cannot appear on verbs from a number of semantic
groups (e.g. ‘want, look for’, ‘eat’, ‘dig’). With verbs of perception -i-ta
derivation yields unpredictable semantics: -ka ‘see’ vs -keta ‘meet, encoun-
ter’; -hima ‘hear’ vs -himeta ‘think, feel’.
5 Transitivity and grammatical relations in Tariana
Tariana has two valency-reducing derivations, passive and reciprocal. A typo-
logically unusual property of Tariana is that there are four mechanisms for
marking causatives: one morphological, two periphrastic and a causative serial
verb construction. It is not unusual for a language to have more than one
mechanism for forming causatives, or to use different techniques of causative
marking techniques depending on the transitivity value of a verb (see chap-
ter 2 above).
170 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
A very unusual property of Tariana is that the same morpheme (-i-ta) is
used to mark causatives with intransitive and a few transitive verbs, and also
to specify that an ambitransitive verb is obligatorily transitive and that a peri-
pheral constituent must be stated. This argument-adding derivation is extremely
rare cross-linguistically. It is a special subtype of valency-increasing mechan-
isms distinct from both causatives and applicatives.14
The problem with the status of this derivation in Tariana involves distin-
guishing core and oblique constituents. The most easily distinguishable core
constituent is A/Sa which is obligatorily cross-referenced on prefixed verbs;
since there is one marker used with all types of A/Sa/So (agentive -ne) one
can say that they are morphologically one class. This may account for the
fact that all underived transitive verbs are ambitransitive. In contrast, all top-
ical non-A/Sa/So are marked in the same way (there is optional locative and
instrumental–comitative marking).
There are a number of techniques Tariana uses to distinguish core from
oblique. One is valency-decreasing derivations – passive and, to a certain
extent, reciprocal affect only core arguments: A/Sa and O. The only argu-
ments of stative verbs (So) and verbs of states (Sio) behave differently; they
are obligatory and thus belong to the core.
The argument-adding derivation also helps to distinguish between core and
non-core arguments – when it is applied to transitive verbs, they become
obligatorily transitive. It also signals that one more oblique constituent has to
be present in the surface structure. In a way, transitive verbs become extended
transitive (Dixon 1994: 123). Note that one cannot say that this oblique
constituent is ‘promoted’ into the core – it cannot be passivized.
Transitivity-changing mechanisms in Tariana provide evidence in favour
of the grammatical relations: A, Sa, O, So, Sio which behave in different ways,
and obliques which can become obligatory by means of the argument-adding
derivation.
14
There is one typological analogy to it. A few Campa languages, from the South-Arawak
subgroup, have a number of applicative derivations (see Dixon and Aikhenvald 1997) which
affect the argument structure of the predicate by putting a benefactive, or an instrumental, or
a ‘presential’ (meaning ‘in the presence of’) constituent into the O slot. One verb can have
more than one derivational suffix of this sort. In this case one of the derivational suffixes just
shows that a peripheral constituent is obligatory. The Pajonal Campa sentence no-p-ako-ts-
imo-tsp-ro-ri Irena Irocarto paoo ‘1sg-give-reference.to-epenthetic-in.presence.of-aspect-
3sgf-3sgm Irene Richard scarf’ (‘I gave Richard the head scarf in Irene’s presence’; Shaler
1971: 45) contains an applicative derivation, -ako ‘benefactive; with reference to’; there is
another suffix -imo ‘in the presence of’ which just indicates that a peripheral constituent (in
this case, Irene) has to be overtly expressed.
Tariana 171
Appendix 5.1: word classes and functional slots in Tariana
verb adjective noun
head of intransitive predicate yes yes yes
head of transitive predicate yes no* no*
head of NP no* yes yes
modifier in NP no* yes no*
* means that certain morphological processes have to be applied for a member of a
given word class to appear in this function.
Appendix 5.2: Tariana verbal categories
Table 5.2. Evidentials and tense in affirmative clauses in Tariana
present recent past remote past
Visual -naka -ka -na
Nonvisual -mha -mahka -sina
Inferred -sika -nihka -pidana
Secondhand – -pidaka -nhina
Table 5.3. Evidentials and tense in interrogative clauses in Tariana
present past
Visual -tha -nihka
Nonvisual – -hna
Inferred – -sõ
Table 5.4. Aspect enclitics in Tariana
semantics form gloss
completion non-completed, on-going -daka ‘still, yet’
completed, complete involvement of S/O -niki ‘completive’
completed, finished (perfective-like) -sita ‘perfective’
not quite completed -maoa ‘almost’
duration durative, prolonged -nhi ‘prolonged’
repetitive -pita, -ta ‘repeated’
short duration, little by little -ina ‘little by little’
habitual -hyuna ‘habitual’
172 Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald
Table 5.5. Switch-reference-sensitive enclitics in Tariana
SS DS
-hyume/-yuhme ‘after, because’ -kayami ‘after’
-nikhe ‘during, in spite of’ -nisawa, -kanada ‘during’
References
Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1994a. ‘Classifiers in Tariana’, Anthropological Linguistics 36.405–65.
1994b. ‘Grammatical relations in Tariana’, Nordic Journal of Linguistics 17.201–18.
1995 ‘Person-marking and discourse in North-Arawak languages’, Studia Linguistica
49.152–95.
1996. ‘Areal diffusion in North-West Amazonia: the case of Tariana’, Anthropo-
logical Linguistics 38.73–116.
forthcoming-a. ‘Reciprocals and reflexives in North Arawak languages of the
Upper Rio Negro (Warekena, Bare, Baniwa of Içana)’, in Typology of reciprocals,
ed. V.P. Nedialkov. Munich: Lincom Europa.
forthcoming-b. ‘Reciprocals and sociative in Tariana: their genetic and areal prop-
erties’, in Typology of reciprocals, ed. V.P. Nedialkov. Munich: Lincom Europa.
forthcoming-c. ‘Serial constructions and verb compounding: evidence from Tariana
(North Arawak)’, Studies in Language.
Crowley, T.M. 1987. ‘Serial verbs in Paamese’, Studies in Language 11.35–84.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined
constructions’, pp. 71–113 of Essays on language function and language type,
ed. J. Bybee, J. Haiman and S.A. Thompson. Amsterdam, Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Durie, M. 1997. ‘Grammatical structures in verb serialization’, pp. 289–354 of Com-
plex predicates, ed. A. Alsina, J. Bresnan and P. Sells. Stanford: CSLI Press.
Foley, W. and Olson, M. 1985. ‘Clausehood and verb serialization’, pp. 17–60 of
Grammar inside and outside the clause, ed. J. Nichols and A.C. Woodbury. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Haiman, J. 1983. ‘Iconic and economic motivation’, Language 59.781–819.
Schachter, P. 1974. ‘A non-transformational account of serial verbs’, Studies in African
Linguistics, Supplement, 5.153–271.
Shaler, D. 1971. Identification of clause types and participant roles in Pajonal Campa.
Peru: Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Athapaskan 173
6 Voice and valency in the
Athapaskan family
KEREN RICE
Every language or language family has its sets of problems that anyone
working on that language/family must have their say about. One of these
problems for the Athapaskan family involves the so-called classifier system, a
poorly named system of the first type of voice/valency-affecting derivation
outlined in Dixon and Aikenvald (1997) – there is overt marking of suppres-
sion and addition of arguments. In this chapter, I focus on the commonalities
and differences in use of this system across the Athapaskan family.
1 Background
I begin with some background on the languages and language family.
Athapaskan languages are geographically widespread in western North
America, falling into three major discontinuous geographic regions. The north-
ern group is spoken in parts of Alaska and in the Canadian provinces and
territories of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, British Columbia, the Yukon
and the Northwest Territories. Three of the languages that I examine here
come from the northern group: Ahtna and Koyukon, which are spoken in
Alaska, and Slave [slevi], which is spoken in the Northwest Territories, one
community in the Yukon, a small area of northern British Columbia, and
northern Alberta. The Pacific Coast languages are/were spoken in northern
California and Oregon. I draw data from Hupa here. Hupa is the most diver-
gent of the Athapaskan languages covered in this survey. Finally, the Apachean
Thank you to Leslie Saxon, Chad Thompson and the participants in the International Work-
shop on Valency-changing Derivations, Canberra, 1997, especially Sasha Aikhenvald, Bob
Dixon, Marianne Mithun and Matt Shibatani. This work was partially funded by a Killam
Fellowship.
174 Keren Rice
group is found in New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and Colorado in the south-
western United States. I use Navajo as an exemplar of this group. I occasion-
ally bring in other languages as well to illustrate particular points.
Why focus on a family, rather than on a particular language, as other
people have done in their chapters? First, there is a tradition of comparative
typological work in Athapaskan linguistics. Moreover, the languages of the
family differ in interesting ways. With respect to voice and valency, a range
of different characteristics exists across the family.
2 Background on the argument system
2.1 Grammatical roles
The verb in Athapaskan languages has a complex structure, and allows within
it for the marking of three basic grammatical roles. An overall, and over-
simplified, schema of the verb is shown in (1). This outline is basically
applicable to the family as a whole; see Rice forthcoming-b for comparative
discussion of morpheme order.
(1) Athapaskan verb structure (simplified)
Preverb – Quantifiers – (Argument Incorporates) – Direct Object – 3 Subject
– Qualifier – Aspect – 1/2 Subject – Voice/Valency – Verb Stem
First consider subjects. As can be seen in (1) ‘subject’ is not a unitary category
as far as position is concerned. 1st and 2nd person discourse-participant sub-
jects and 3rd person subjects are in different locations within the verb. The
terms ‘1st person’ and ‘3rd person’ must be approached with care. 1st/2nd
person subjects include, in all languages, 1st person singular, 2nd person
singular and 2nd person plural. 3rd person subjects include a human subject,
often called unspecified, indefinite, or 4th person, and a plural human subject.
The human subject, often compared with the French pronoun on, is used to
indicate a 1st person plural subject as well; in some languages (e.g. Ahtna,
Koyukon) this is the only way of marking 1st person nonsingulars; in others
this is used for 1st person plurals and a prefix in the 1/2 subject position for
1st person duals (e.g. Dogrib, Sekani).1
See Story (1989) for discussion.
All subjects, be they subjects of transitive or intransitive verbs, have the
same morphological form and appear in the positions in (1). Some typical
paradigms are given in (2); the verb is transitive, but intransitives pattern
identically. Stems are separated by hyphens from the remainder of the verb
1
Hupa differs in many ways that are not relevant here. For instance, the general human subject
developed into a 3rd person topical human subject in Hupa. For discussion, see Golla 1970,
1997; Rice forthcoming-b; and Thompson 1989a.
Athapaskan 175
and the subject markers are bolded. The abbreviation ‘YM’ stands for the
Navajo reference dictionary by Young and Morgan (1987).
(2) subject marking
Ahtna Slave Navajo Hupa
1sg ’es-yaan heh-’á yish-dl! ’iwh-tsit
2sg ’i-yaan ne-’á ni-dl! ’in-tsit
3 yaan he-’á yi-dl! ch’i-tsit
1pl ts’e-yaan hít-’á yii-dl! ’i di-tsit
human ts’e-yaan ts’e-’á ji-dl!
2pl ’oh-yaan hah-’á woh-dl! ’oh-tsit
3pl ke-yaan ke-’á
‘eat’ ‘eat’ ‘drink’ ‘pound’
imperfective imperfective imperfective imperfective
(Kari 1990: 680) (Rice 1989) (YM 145) (Golla 1985: 89)
There is a caveat to the claim about marking of subjects – subjects of low
topicality (see, e.g., Rice forthcoming-b; Saxon and Rice 1993; Thompson
1989a, 1996b; Willie and Jelinek 1996) may show object rather than subject
morphology, as evidenced by the position and form of the pronominal.
Direct and oblique objects have the same form, although the 3rd persons
differ somewhat in distribution. These forms for the different languages are
shown in (3).
(3) direct and oblique object marking
Ahtna Slave Navajo Hupa
1sg s se shi whi
2sg ne ne ni ni
3 (1/2 S) Ø, b Ø, be Ø, bi Ø, xwi (human)
3 (3 S) y ye yi Ø, xwi (human)
areal ko go hwi xwi (rare)
indef c’ ’e ’i ky’i
1pl ne naxe nihi noh
2pl nhw naxe nihi noh
3pl (1/2 S) ku ku
3pl (3 S) hw go
recip nil ’ele ’ahi n-li
refl d ’ede di di
In terms of the grammatical relations of S, A and O, then, two of these are
distinguished morphologically in the Athapaskan family – subjects of transitives
and intransitives are identical in form and position (S = A) and objects of
transitives (O) differ in position and sometimes in form.2
2
The so-called classificatory verbs (intransitive – verbs of location; transitive – verbs of hand-
ling) are determined by the subject in intransitives and the object in transitives, yielding S = 0.
I do not deal with this problem.
176 Keren Rice
2.2 Lexical verb classes
Verbs divide into three major lexical classes in terms of argument structure.
First are lexical intransitives. Such verbs either have an actor or an undergoer
subject. All examples are from Ahtna (Kari 1990). The lexical entries should
be interpreted as follows. ‘G’ abbreviates gender; these elements are actually
more like classifiers (Aikhenvald forthcoming, Corbett 1991), and verbs with
G in their lexical entry enter into the classifier system. The stem is the final
element of the verb. The symbols #, +, – are phonological boundary types;
these are not important to this chapter. Directly preceding the stem is a
marking for lexically specified voice/valency; see §8.
(4) lexically intransitive verbs (Ahtna)
(a) G +l -t’uuts
cl+voice/valency-stem
be black, dark in colour (352)
(b) G +d -ghotl’
cl+voice-stem
break, become broken, shatter (222)
s-ghu’ s-d -ghoA
1sg-tooth asp-voice -break
My tooth broke
(c) l -let
voice/valency-stem
sg person, animal moves quickly, walks quickly, runs, leaps, jumps (355)
t-i-l -tlaat
inceptive-2sgS-voice-move quickly.imperf
run, move quickly!
(d) ta # d + A -t’en
swim (348)
men yii ta-s-de-A-t’en
lake in water-1plS-water-valency -swim.perf
We swam in the lake
Verbs can be lexically transitive, with a subject and direct object (or actor
and undergoer). In these examples, the symbol ‘O’ indicates the transitivity
of the verb.
(5) lexically transitive verbs (Ahtna)
(a) O Ø -t’ogh
paddle, row O (349)
c’e-t’ogh
unspecified paddle
He is paddling (unspecified object)
Athapaskan 177
(b) O A -dzak’
divine, foretell, prophesy O (168)
ye-A-dzak
disjoint.anaphor-valency-divine.customary form
He divines it (customarily)
Third, there are verbs that require two arguments, an actor and undergoer,
where the undergoer has oblique rather than direct status.
(6) lexically intransitive verbs with oblique object (Ahtna)
P-e # da # d + Ø-niic
hear (309)
k-e-da-’s-de-nes
areal.O-postposition-mouth-1plS-cl-stem.repetitive form
We hear a noise
(da#d – verbally, oral noise, speech (131))
With this basic survey of the marking of grammatical roles and of verb
types, I turn to the main topic, namely the marking of voice/valency.
3 On argument-transferring constructions in Athapaskan
languages: background
Two basic argument-transferring morphemes are found across the family.
These are traditionally known as classifiers (Goddard 1905) although it has
long been recognized that this term is a misnomer (see Krauss 1969: 81, and
many others). Nevertheless, Athapaskanists have not been able to agree on
other terminology. I discuss below why this is the case; I use the terms voice
and valency for these elements. After a brief introduction, I examine the mor-
phological, syntactic and semantic characteristics of each of these elements in
their productive uses and then look at how they combine. Finally, as has long
been recognized, these elements are often lexically frozen with a particular
verb stem, and I shall discuss this.
The Athapaskan voice/valency elements are well studied. Any description
of an Athapaskan language includes a summary of their form and function.
Both are necessary – they are often obscure in form (I do not discuss this; see
a grammar of any Athapaskan language and the examples in this chapter) and
long lists of functions are generally enumerated. In recent years, work has
been done to try to unify the productive functions of the voice/valency ele-
ments. See Thompson (1989a, 1996a) and Kibrik (1993, 1996) in particular
for detailed discussion.
178 Keren Rice
The voice/valency elements have long been recognized to play two roles.
First, every lexical entry of a verb has associated with it a voice/valency
marker (it can be unmarked for one), as can be seen in the examples above.
These are lexicalized with the verb stem, and are listed as part of the basic
lexical entry. I return to discussion of lexicalization of voice/valency markers
following discussion of productive uses, in §8. The second role that voice/
valency markers play is a truly functional one. The valency marker l basically
creates causatives; the voice marker d basically creates middles, and the
marker l is complex in nature, marking a middle built on a causative.
There is disagreement in the Athapaskan literature about how to character-
ize the roles of the voice/valency markers, and this is the reason, I believe,
that the term ‘classifier’, although recognized by all as a misnomer, persists.
Some linguists argue that voice/valency markers directly affect the argument
system: they are argument-increasing (l) – adding an argument – or argument-
decreasing (d) – eliminating an argument. See, for instance, McDonough
(1989) for this position. A second stance is that the classifiers are transitivity
indicators. They can be transitivity-increasing (l) or transitivity-decreasing
(d), or combine these two functions (l); see Kibrik (1993, 1996) for this posi-
tion. Kibrik argues that the transitivity indicators ‘do not designate high or
low transitivity by themselves. They cannot be ascribed any invariant and
definite meaning. They are precisely indicators signalling shifts in transitivity
– either increase or decrease’ (1993: 50, highlighting from Kibrik).
The position that I take in this chapter combines features of the other
approaches. I argue, after Thompson (1996a), that d is a marker of middle
voice, to be defined below. It has no effect on argument structure but reduces
transitivity, as Kibrik (1996) argues. On the other hand, l, which I call a
causativizer, in its most productive cross-family roles is argument-increasing.
However, as Kibrik (1993) argues, it is sometimes transitivity-increasing with-
out being argument-increasing. Finally, l combines voice and valency func-
tions, marking a middle formed on a causative.
4 On marking middle voice: d
I begin with discussion of the voice element d. This marker is much dis-
cussed in the Athapaskan literature; see Arce-Aranales, Axelrod and Fox
(1994), Kibrik (1996) and Thompson (1996a) for recent discussion.
Before turning to exemplification and analysis of middle voice, two warn-
ings are in order. First, it is often difficult to identify this element (or other
Athapaskan 179
voice/valency elements) from the phonetics of the verb, but there is consider-
able evidence for its presence in all languages from morphosyntactic patterning.
Second, when d combines with l, a portmanteau of the form l results, as has
long been recognized by Athapaskan linguists (e.g. Hargus 1988, Kari 1990,
Rice 1989, Stanley 1969).
Let me begin with a definition of middle voice. Middle voice includes a
range of constructions – reflexives, reciprocals, passives, etc. Kemmer (1993),
whose definition I follow, argues that middle voice has to do with the relative
elaboration of events (including states). She defines the property of relative
elaboration of events as ‘the degree to which the facets in a particular situ-
ation, i.e. participants and conceivable component subevents in the situation,
are distinguished’ (1993: 208). Kemmer further notes that the ‘speaker has
a choice of either marking reference to events as undifferentiated wholes, or
making reference to their substructure or component parts’ (208). Middles
fall somewhere between prototypical two-participant events, or events in
which ‘a human entity (an Agent) acts volitionally, exerting physical force
on an inanimate definite entity (a Patient) which is directly and completely
affected by that event’ (50) and prototypical one-participant events where
‘the conceptual differentiation of Initiating and Endpoint facets is utterly non-
existent: there is no Endpoint, but simply one participant of which a state or
action is predicated’ (73). Thus active two-participant events include an initiator
and an endpoint which are distinct from one another while single-participant
events involve one participant. Middles typically involve two participants which
are not differentiated. While Kemmer concentrates on their aspectual func-
tion, middles also interact in the argument system (Thompson 1996a) – in the
middle voice, one finds both suppression of differentiation of arguments and
suppression of differentiated events.
Kemmer identifies a large number of domains as potential middles. These
include, amongst others, reflexives, reciprocals, middle passives, nontransitional
motion, change in body posture, facilitative structures, grooming, other body
actions, translational motion, positionals, cognition middle, perception middle
and spontaneous events. Athapaskan languages mark some of these as middles,
through the use of d, and, as Thompson (1996a) discusses, also mark certain
other events with low elaboration.
I now survey the range of constructions in which d middle voice is used
productively. See Thompson (1996a) for a cross-family survey of the func-
tions of middle-voice marking in both the Athapaskan language family and
the larger Na-Dene, a grouping which includes not only the Athapaskan
languages, but also Eyak and Tlingit.
180 Keren Rice
4.1 Middle construction types
4.1.1 Reflexive: initiator and endpoint not differentiated
A reflexive shares with a prototypical two-participant event that one entity
affects or acts on another; it is distinguished from the prototypical two-
participant event in that the two entities are referentially identical, yielding an
instance of low elaboration because the participants are not differentiated.
Examples are given in (7–12). In the left-hand column, the structure in ques-
tion and the lexical voice/valency marker are shown. Forms for comparison
are given on the right, with glosses below. The voice marker is highlighted
when the phonology allows for its appearance, as are any other elements in
the verb that enter into the voice system.
(7) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
transitive Ø tl’ogh t’aas
grass cut.impfv
He is cutting grass
reflexive d de -s -t -’as
refl-asp-mid-cut.perf
He cut himself (reflexive)
(8) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
transitive Ø yeghee-ghonh
disjoint.anaphor+asp-make/kill.pl.O
He made them, killed them, beat them up
reflexive d hohedo-de-ghonh
refl+3plS+refl+asp-mid-make/kill.pl.O
They killed, overexerted themselves
(9) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive Ø dahyed*-lu
up+disjoint.anaphor+cl+asp-handle.rope
S/he hung it
reflexive d dah’ededí-dlu
up+refl+cl+asp-mid+handle.rope
S/he hung him/herself
(10) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987: 69)
transitive Ø yi-ch’id
He’s scratching it
reflexive d ’ádí-ch’id
He’s scratching himself
(11) Hupa: no change to d (Golla 1970: 108)
Athapaskan 181
(12) Carrier (Morice 1932: 353)
transitive Ø ûs-t’ah
I beat it (with stick, rod, etc.)
reflexive d udedez-t’ah
I beat myself
4.1.2 Reciprocal: initiator and endpoint not differentiated
Reciprocals too occur with the middle-voice marker. Reciprocals involve low
elaboration in that the subject is both the origin and target of the action.
(13) Ahtna (Kari 1990: 204)
transitive Ø ggax kubii-ghaan
Rabbits are killing them
reciprocal d dzuuggi na-ni,-gha-d-ghaan
The princesses killed each other
(14) Koyukon (Thompson 1996a: 355)
transitive Ø yeto-ts’eyh
S/he will pinch him/her once
reciprocal d nee ,-heeto-de-ts’eyh
They will pinch each other once
(15) Hupa (Golla 1970: 81)
transitive Ø O ni-Ø-yod
chase O
reciprocal d ya-n-,i-ni-di-yod-i
chase one another
(16) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987: 69)
transitive Ø yi-gh^
He’s killing them
reciprocal d ’ahi-g^
They’re killing each other
(17) Slave (Rice 1989: 634)
transitive Ø náyeni#-ta
S/he kicked him/her
reciprocal d ná’e ,ena-ta
They kicked each other
4.1.3 Indirect reflexive: initiator and location not differentiated
Indirect reflexives are related to two or three participant events; they differ
from direct reflexives in that the actor and an oblique argument are identical,
thus lowering the elaboration of the event.
182 Keren Rice
(18) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
indirect reflexive d ede-nodo-de-tson’
refl-splash.on+lexicalized-mid-defecate
He defecated on himself
(19) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987: 69)
transitive Ø béé-ghaz
I scraped it off it
indirect reflexive d ’ád-éés-gaz
I scraped it off myself
(20) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive A yek’ená’eney#-h-tse
S/he washed it (handled unspecified object (water)
on it)
indirect reflexive l ’ede-k’ená’ena-tse
S/he bathed him/herself (handled unspecified O
(water) on self)
In Slave, indirect reflexives (and indirect reciprocals) are found with only a
limited number of postpositions; indirect reflexives and indirect reciprocals
(§4.1.4) do not occur in the middle voice in some languages.
4.1.4 Indirect reciprocal: initiator and location not differentiated
Indirect reciprocals, like indirect reflexives, indicate that the origin of the
event and an oblique target are identical to each other.
(21) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive A bek’ená’enii-h-tse
I washed him/her
indirect reciprocal l ’e ,e-k’ená’ekena-tse
They washed each other
Indirect reciprocals, like indirect reflexives, are less likely to require middle
voice.
4.1.5 Self-benefactive: initiator and recipient not differentiated
Self-benefactives are a type of indirect reflexive in which the agent performs
an action for his or her own benefit (Thompson 1996a: 356).
(22) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
transitive A ize-A-ghaen
He killed it (213)
self-benefactive l i-d-ze-l-ghaen
He killed it for his own benefit (131)
Athapaskan 183
(23) Koyukon (Thompson 1996a: 356)
transitive A le-tl-baats
I boiled it
self-benefactive d d-aalge-baats
I boiled it for myself
(24) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive Ø n#-lu
You (sg) sew
self-benefactive d de-n#-d-lu
You (sg) sew for yourself
(25) Carrier (Morice’s ‘appropriative’; Morice 1932: 334)
transitive Ø tenes-’aih
I take something out of the house
self-benefactive d te-d-is-t-’aih
I take something out of the house for myself
transitive Ø nenes-kaih
I put the contents in an open pan
self-benefactive Ø ne-d-is-kaih
I put the contents in an open pan for myself, for my
own use
4.1.6 Incorporated body parts: endpoint part of initiator
Many northern Athapaskan languages allow incorporation of body parts into
the verb. Middle voice accompanies bodypart incorporation when, as Axelrod
(1990) argues, the verb marks the movement of the body part in a typical
manner. This, as Thompson (1996a: 357) points out, is not surprising since
something that affects one part of the body affects the entire self.
(26) Ahtna (Kari 1990: 74)
other incorporate Ø c’edzigha-’aaA
It (c’edzi – four legged animal) is running along
bodypart incorporate d its’e laa-t-’aas
He’s waving his hand (laa – hand) at him
(27) Koyukon (Thompson 1996a)
non-incorporate Ø de-lo’ neenee-’onh
refl.hand
S/he put her/his own hand (de-lo’) there
bodypart incorporate d nee-lo’-ee-t-’onh
S/he put her/his own hand (-lo’) there, at rest
184 Keren Rice
(28) Tsuut’ina (Cook 1984: 136)
no incorporate Ø sítsì dìnìsís-’ó
I turned my head (tsì)
bodypart incorporate d dígá tsì-dìnìsí-t-’ó
I turned my head (tsì)
4.1.7 Mediopassive: initiator and endpoint not differentiated
The term ‘mediopassive’ is used in two senses in the Athapaskan literature.
First, Young and Morgan (1987) use it to refer to situations where the object
is part of the subject. These verbs include classifiers – d with sticklike objects
(arms and legs) or n with small round objects (head). The noun class markers
are highlighted here as well.
(29) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
transitive Ø nayghi-’aan
He brought it down (71)
mediopassive d na-n-da-t-’aan
He put it (his hat) on himself (72)
(30) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987: 122)
transitive Ø yiih yiyíí-’^
He put a 3-dimensional object into it
mediopassive d yiih n-oo-t-’^
He put his head into it
(31) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive Ø O ten#-’$
S/he put 3-dimensional O in water
mediopassive d te-d-&-se
S/hei put her/hisi hand in water
The term ‘mediopassive’ is also used to refer to cases where a reflexive is
understood, but not overt. The following examples show verbs of grooming.
(32) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
transitive Ø noyele-tl’oonh
S/he dressed him/her (e.g. a child)
mediopassive d nolse-tl’oonh
I dressed
(33) Ahtna (Kari 1990: 365)
transitive Ø nayiz-tl’uun
He gave him clothes
mediopassive d nas-tl’uun
He got dressed
Athapaskan 185
(34) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive Ø ráyereh-tl’$
S/he dresses him/her
mediopassive d ráre-tl’$
S/he dresses her/himself
4.1.8 Spontaneous middle (anticausative): initiator suppressed
Thompson (1996a) shows that many verbs in Athapaskan languages can have
either a passive or a spontaneous middle translation; spontaneous middles
have inanimate patients and no implied agent; passives, on the other hand,
have implied agents. Thompson (1996a: 359) speculates that the Athapaskan
passives (§4.1.9) developed out of spontaneous middles.
(35) Koyukon (Thompson 1996a: 359)
transitive Ø dekenh denaal-yes
stick
S/he broke the stick
middle l dekenh denaaAe-yes
The stick broke / The stick was broken
4.1.9 Passive: initiator suppressed but implied
Athapaskan languages form agentless passives through middle-voice marking
and, generally, suppression of the agent. It is often pointed out (e.g. Kibrik 1996,
Thompson 1996a) that passives have an implied agent. See also §4.3.
(36) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
transitive Ø ighi-ghaan
He made them (130)
passive d a-d-ghaan
They were made
transitive Ø ighi-yaan’
He ate it (429)
passive d d-aan
It is being eaten (130)
(37) Hupa (Golla 1970)
transitive Ø O adverb-Ø-liW/la
move O (several, rope) somewhere (79)
passive d adverb-wi-di-la
several, rope have been moved somewhere
transitive Ø O adv-Ø-miA/metA’
throw O (several in bunch) (79)
passive d adverb-di-miA
(several in bunch) move precipitously, fly, throw themselves
186 Keren Rice
(38) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987)
transitive Ø yiz-taA
He gave him a kick (121)
passive d yis-taA
He was given a kick
transitive Ø yizh-t’éézh
He blackened it/him (121)
passive d yish-t’éézh
It was blackened
(39) Koyukon (Thompson 1996a: 360)
transitive A neeto-,-dzes
S/he will hit you once
passive l eeteghee-l-dzes
You will be hit once
(40) Slave (Rice 1989)
transitive Ø yú k’e’edé-’$
S/he ironed the clothes (lit. handled unspecified object on the
clothes)
passive d yú k’e’edéh-t-’$
The clothes are ironed (unspecified O was handled on the
clothes)
transitive Ø léyi-ghe
I cut it
passive d léye-ge
It was cut
(41) Carrier (Morice 1932)
transitive A es-’a
I hire O (283)
passive d ez-’a
I am hired
transitive A des-ghel
I plane it (286)
passive d de-gel
It is planed / It can be planed
transitive Ø nes-’a
I deceive O (286)
passive d nes-t-’ah
I get deceived
4.1.10 1st person plural subject: low elaboration of subject
Some Athapaskan languages have a morpheme that marks a 1st person dual
or duo-plural subject (depending on the language). This element occurs with
d middle voice marker, and is lexically listed as such.
Athapaskan 187
(42) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987)
3rd plural subject Ø t’óó ’aha-yóí
They are many (114)
1st person plural d (’) t’óó ’ahonii-’-yóí
We are many
1st person singular Ø yah ’íí-’^
I carried it inside (114)
1st person plural d yah ’ii-t-’^
We carried it inside
(43) Slave (Rice 1989)
1st person singular Ø heh-’á
I eat
1st person plural d hí-t-’á
We eat
1st person singular Ø leh-xe
I cut it
1st person plural d lehí-ge
We cut it
(44) Hupa (Golla 1970)
3rd person Ø ch’e’i-ya’n
He eats it (303)
1st person plural k’i-di-yan
We eat (71)
In Galice (Hoijer 1966), both the 1st and 2nd person plural forms require
middle voice when the verb has a lexical l.
(45) Galice (Hoijer 1966: 325)
1st person singular A dash-,-bad
I boil it
2nd person singular A n#-,-bad
You sg boil it
1st person plural l di-l-bad
We boil it
2nd person plural l do’o-l-bad
You pl boil it
4.1.11 Extension of argument
In some languages, middle voice is used in a construction that indicates that
an entity is situated in an extended way rather than in a single location. Such
an extended object is conceived of as unidimensional rather than having two
or three dimensions. This can be thought of as lowly elaborated since indi-
vidual pieces are not differentiated.
188 Keren Rice
(46) Navajo (Young, Morgan and Midgette 1992: 41)
state Ø dahdzil-ba
There is a grey patch or spot
extension d dzi-bá
A grey stripe or streak extends away into distance
(47) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
state Ø z-’aan
It (compact O) is in position (70)
extension d testa ’utgge u-kaen’
hill.among up 3-den
kades-t-’aan
series.of.3-dimensional.objects.is.in.position
Its dens extend up into the hills (73)
4.1.12 Iterative: initiator and endpoint not differentiated
Most Athapaskan languages have a construction known as the iterative. The
iterative has the form na- or cognate and has more than one reading – it
indicates a return to a previous state (often translated ‘back’) and repetition
of an event (generally translated ‘again’ or ‘another’). It may also co-occur
with a customary aspect verb stem in most languages. When combined with
intransitives, middle-voice marking is found; it is unusual to find this with
transitives. The iterative construction with intransitives is parallel to reflexives
and reciprocals, indicating a common source and goal.
(48) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
non-iterative Ø ni-yaa
He arrived (422)
iterative d na-’i-d-yaa
He returned (291)
(49) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
non-iterative Ø ne-yo
S/he arrived
iterative d no-’ee-de-yo
S/he came back
(50) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987: 122)
non-iterative Ø sé-l**’
I became
iterative d nísís-d-l**’
I reverted, turned back (into)
iterative d náá-sís-d-l**’
I again became
non-iterative Ø baa ní-yá
I went to him
Athapaskan 189
iterative d baa ná-nís-d-zá
I returned to him
iterative d baa náá-nís-d-zá
I again went to him
(51) Hupa (Golla 1970: 80)
non-iterative Ø adverb-xo-Ø-’aW/’an
pl subject run somewhere
iterative d adverb-na-xo-di-’aW/’an
pl subject run back somewhere
(52) Slave (Rice 1989)
non-iterative Ø dé-’é
S/he starts off by boat
iterative d ra-de-t-’é
S/he starts off again, starts back by boat
iterative d ra-t-’ó
S/he goes customarily by boat
non-iterative Ø ’ane-le
You sg do it
iterative d ’a-ra-ne-d-le
You sg do it again
4.1.13 Errative: initiator control suppressed
A construction known as the errative is found in many Athapaskan lan-
guages.3
It is used to indicate unintentional action. Axelrod (1993: 108) pro-
vides the following definition: ‘doing the activity referred to by the verb
excessively or incorrectly and being unable to stop or escape from the con-
sequences’. Morice (1932: 327), who seems to be the first to use the word
‘errative’, points out that the errative in Carrier ‘quite often connotes a reflex
idea not only of impropriety, but of unwished for consequences for the sub-
ject of the verb’. The errative occurs with a qualifier n as well as with the
d middle element.
(53) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
non-errative Ø kahghi-yaa
S/he spoke out (285)
errative d kah-n-es-daa
S/he accidentally spoke it
non-errative A ite-A-na’
He swallowed it (286)
errative l it-n-e-l-na’
He choked on it (285–6)
3
The errative is found in at least a few verbs in Slave – ’enéhd^ ‘s/he overate, got drunk’.
190 Keren Rice
(54) Koyukon
non-errative Ø k’eghee-hon’
S/he ate (Axelrod 1993: 108–9)
errative d k’e-n-aaA-d-on’
S/he overate
non-errative Ø ghee-do’
S/he was sitting, staying (Axelrod 1993: 109)
errative d n-aaAee-do’
S/he started staying and couldn’t make her/himself leave
(55) Carrier (Morice 1932)
non-errative Ø es-t’en
I work (327)
errative d e-n-es-t’en
I work uselessly, wrongly, make a mistake, err
non-errative Ø tas-’aih
I put something in the water (328)
errative d ta-n-es-t-’aih
I put the wrong piece in the water
The Navajo aspect that Young and Morgan call the prolongative has the
same semantics as the northern errative, and requires the middle-voice marker
and the qualifier n.
(56) Navajo ‘prolongative’ (Young, Morgan and Midgette 1992)
non-errative Ø ’i’nish-’aaA
I start to chew (28)
errative d ná-n-ésh-t-’aal
I ate too much, got stuffed (29)
non-errative Ø haash-chééh
I start to cry (70)
errative d nadí-n-ísh-chééh
I cry and cry, prolongedly
non-errative Ø niníA-chozh
I finished eating (90)
errative d ná-n-ésh-chozh
I ate too much of O, overate on O
4.1.14 Repetitive/perambulative: endpoint of event suppressed
Intransitive verbs in what is called the perambulative aspect in Koyukon and
the repetitive aspect in Slave take middle voice.
(57) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
motion Ø ts’enee-datl
We arrived
perambulative d kk’o-ts’ee-de-daaA
We are travelling around
Athapaskan 191
(58) Slave (Rice 1989)
continuative Ø náwhe-ya
S/he made a return trip
repetitive d k’ína-ye-da
S/he walked around
In this aspect, the event is not a distinct, discrete one, and thus middle voice
is not inappropriate. It is interesting that in the distributive aspect, where a
series of discrete arguments are involved rather than a collective, middle
voice is not found.
4.2 Summary
Middle voice is marked by an affix, d. I use the term middle voice as the affix
has a variety of uses which are unified by the fact that all of them indicate
low elaboration, as defined in Kemmer (1993).4
The different uses are con-
structionally differentiated through the presence of additional material in all
but the passive, as summarized in (59).
(59) construction of middles
construction additional marking (d middle voice in all)
passive no additional marking
reflexive reflexive direct object prefix
reciprocal reciprocal direct object prefix
indirect reflexive reflexive oblique object prefix
indirect reciprocal reciprocal oblique object prefix
self-benefactive d prefix
incorporated bodypart incorporate
plural subject subject marking
iterative na iterative
customary customary stem, (na iterative prefix)
errative n prefix
repetitive/perambulative preverb (e.g. kk’o Koyukon, k’ína/k’e Slave)
The particular meaning is constructionally based; the middle voice marker
designates low elaboration, but not the specific reading; this must be derived
from context. Not too surprisingly, some ambiguities are found. Some examples
are given in (60):
(60) Koyukon ambiguities (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
(a) neeA’ek’ehe-l-onh
They are feeding each other / One is feeding the other
4
See Thompson (1996a) for arguments about the historical source of middle voice in Athapaskan
languages.
192 Keren Rice
(b) edek’e-l-zes
He is drinking by himself, giving himself something to drink
4.3 Passive revisited
4.3.1 Personal and impersonal passives
I now return to passives. The passive construction in Athapaskan languages
has been studied extensively by Thompson (1989a, b, focussing on Koyukon)
and Kibrik (1996, focussing on Navajo). Two basic passive constructions can
be identified across the family and a third one in Navajo. The first two types
are alike in that they are non-agentive. They differ by the grammatical mark-
ing of the argument: it may have the form of an object – these are known as
non-promotional/impersonal/mediopassive – or it may have the form of a
subject – this construction is called promotional/personal/passive; I use the
terms impersonal and personal. In some languages, both personal and imper-
sonal passives appear.
In order to distinguish personal and impersonal passives, it is necessary to
examine forms with 1st or 2nd person arguments or with 3rd person human
plural and unspecified arguments. The morphology is such that it is impossible
to discern the nature of a passive with an unmarked 3rd person argument –
morphological marking of subject for this type is null and object marking is
only present when two arguments occur. Passive subjects are highlighted
in the following forms, as is voice marking. In personal passives, the passive
argument is a morphological subject; in impersonal passives, the passive argu-
ment is a morphological object.
(61) Dogrib (Saxon 1990)
personal passive
transitive Ø etenets’eè-’#
We pity you sg
passive d eteè-h-t-’#
I am to be pitied (h = 1sgS)
impersonal passive
transitive Ø ’∂nayee-nde ha
S/he is going to divorce him/her
passive d ’∂na-s-eè-h-do
I’ve been divorced (s = 1sgO)
transitive A e Aàeh-who
I kill it
passive l k’àhjone eAà-s-iç-wo
I was almost killed (s = 1sgO)
Athapaskan 193
Saxon (1990) comments that the personal passive is quite uncommon in
Dogrib. In the closely related Slave, on the other hand, it appears that passives
are personal with personal subjects:
(62) Slave (Rice 1989)
personal passive
transitive Ø ráserey#-’a
S/he fooled me
passived ráreye-h-t-’a
I was fooled (h = 1sgS)
Koyukon has both personal and impersonal passives:
(63) Koyukon
personal
transitive A yinee-A-’aanh
S/he is looking at him/her (Thompson 1989a: 10)
passive l n-een-la-’aanh
You are being watched (een = 2sgS)
transitive A neeto-A-dzes
S/he will hit you once with fist (Thompson 1996a: 360)
passive l eetegh-ee-l-dzes
You will be hit once (ee = 2sgS)
impersonal
transitive Ø ghes-on’
I ate it
passive d s-o-d-on’
I was eaten (s = 1sgO)
transitive A yeghee-A-zook
He took them
passive l hebo-l-zook
They were taken (hebo = 3pl human O)
Tsuut’ina has both types:
(64) Tsuut’ina (Cook 1984)
personal
transitive Ø s-à-’í là
really
He saw me (really) (169)
passive d yì-s-t-’í
I was seen (s = 1sgS)
impersonal
transitive Ø nàmíst-li
I am expecting him (170)
passive d nà-s-í-d-li
I am expected (there is an expectation for me) (s = 1sgO)
194 Keren Rice
In the personal passive example, the single argument has subject morpho-
logy, while in the impersonal passive the single overt argument has the object
form. This ‘subject’ is non-topical, indicated by the gloss that Cook provides
– ‘there is an expectation . . .’
A similar set of constructions is found in Mattole (Li 1930: 70):
(65) Mattole (Li 1930)
personal
transitive Ø djiva:si:-tl’í:’d
I smashed it to pieces (70)
passive d djiva:si-s-di-tl’í:’d
I am smashed to pieces (s = 1sgS)
impersonal
transitive Ø Ao’cgai gwonist’é’ ’o-yí:
You call mice people (70)
passive l c-ó:-l-yi:
I am called (c = 1sgO)
passive l n-ó:-l-yi:
You sg are called (n = 2sgO)
Here it appears that verbs with affected objects require the personal passive,
and verbs with non-affected objects require the impersonal passive. However,
it is not clear if this will be confirmed by further data.
Navajo has personal passives based on examples with subject personal
pronouns:
(66) Navajo
personal
transitive Ø yish-’*
I see it
passive d yi-sh-t-’*
I am seen (sh = 1sgS)
transitive A nei-A-’a’
S/he sends her/him on errands
passive l naa-sh-’a’
I am sent on errands (sh = 1sgS)
passive l nasí-ní-l-’a’
You sg were sent on errands (n = 2sgS)
Kibrik (1996) argues that these forms are not passives, but form a construction
that he terms ‘potential’. To a large degree, his argument is based on his
conclusion that passives are impersonal in Navajo. However, the evidence is
sparse – when the argument of a passive verb is 3rd person, verb morphology
offers no clues to the position of that argument. This type of passive with a
personal subject appears to be rare in Navajo; see below for further discussion.
Athapaskan 195
Dena’ina has, by the form of the argument, impersonal passives: object
pronouns are used, as in the Tsuut’ina and Mattole impersonal passives.
(67) Dena’ina (Tenenbaum 1978)
impersonal passives
transitive A yi-A-jeh
He punched him (122)
passive l shi-l-jeh
I got punched (sh = 1sgO) (127)
transitive A chiqevda’e-A-yuq
I killed them (122)
passive l chi-sh-da-l-yuq
I got killed (sh = 1sgO) (127)
In Hupa too, passives are impersonal, with object pronouns:
(68) Hupa (Golla 1970)
impersonal
transitive A A-ten
move (one person) somewhere (181)
passive l no-n-iwi-l-te:n
You have been put down (n = 2sgO) (182)
Carrier has personal passives, as can be seen by the presence of 1st person
subject- rather than object-marking.
(69) Carrier (Morice 1932: 286)
personal
transitive Ø nes-’a
I deceive O
passive d ne-s-t-’ah
I was deceived (s = 1sgS)
transitive Ø es-’aA
I eat
passive d e-s-t-’aal
I was eaten, eatable (s = 1sgS)
Thompson (1989a, b, c) studies the semantics of the passive construction
(personal or impersonal) in Koyukon and Navajo through text analysis. He
argues that the function of the passive is an unusual one. First, and part of a
standard definition of passive, the passive demotes the logical subject, mak-
ing it either of low topicality or non-topical. Second, and unusually, he argues
that functionally the patient is non-topical. Thompson found this in both
Koyukon, where structurally both personal and impersonal passives are found,
and in Navajo. If his conclusion is correct, then the formal grammatical role
of the patient does not affect its topicality; it is likely that in languages that
196 Keren Rice
have both personal and impersonal passives, some other semantic factor, not
topicality, differentiates the two. More careful study is required.
4.3.2 Verbs subject to passivization (1): thematic roles
Many kinds of verbs are subject to passivization. Transitive verbs such as
‘eat’ or ‘pinch’ or ‘kill’ have agentive subjects, while those such as ‘look at’
or ‘know’ or ‘pity’ have experiencer subjects, and both types are subject to
passivization. Affected objects can be passivized (eat, kill), as can non-
affected objects (look at, pity, call). I am sure that there are conditions within
these classes on possibilities of passivization, but overall, there are few con-
straints of which I am aware on the types of transitive verb that are subject to
passivization.
4.3.3 Verbs subject to passivization (2): passives of intransitives
The examples given so far show that transitive verbs are subject to passiv-
ization, as expected. Intransitive verbs can be passivized in at least some
languages. The following Dogrib examples are given by Saxon (1990). The
objects of these verbs are structurally oblique rather than direct. The second
example of each set is passive; the single grammatical role remains oblique.
(70) Dogrib
intransitive Ø wek’èe-zh$
I know her/him/it
passive d s$∂mba k’èe-j$ le
money negative
There isn’t knowledge of money (no subject)
intransitive Ø chekoa k’è-ndi ha
child
S/he will look after the child
passive d ’ekàani ts’inàkè wek’èho-dì
that way orphan
Orphans were treated that way (expletive subject ho)
intransitive Ø ts’e-gh$
We make war
passive d gik’e e-g$
3pl.on war-is
There was war going on upon them (no subject)
intransitive Ø sekègeè-zh$
They know me
passive d sek’èè-j$
I am known (no subject)
Navajo too has passives of intransitives, although I did not find many clear
examples.
Athapaskan 197
(71) Navajo (Young, Morgan and Midgette 1992)
intransitive Ø yisé-nah
I forget (407)
passive d hoyoos-’-neh
It is forgotten
The conditions on passives of intransitives require further study.
4.3.4 Navajo ‘semipassives’ (agentive passives)
The passives discussed so far are grammatically agentless. Navajo has a type
of passive that has been called an agentive passive (Young and Morgan
1987) or a semipassive (Kibrik 1996), illustrated in (76). These examples
have middle voice, an object pronoun and an unspecified subject (’); these
elements are bolded in the examples.
(72) Navajo semipassives (Kibrik 1996)
transitive Ø ’asdz^^ ’ashkii tánéíz-giz
woman boy washed
The woman washed the boy (275–6)
semipassive d ’ashkii táábí’dís-giz
boy
The boy was washed
transitive A nish-hash
It bit you (280)
semipassive l ni’dish-ghash
You have been bitten
Kibrik (1996: 276) outlines four characteristic features of semipassives:
(73) characteristics of semipassive
• the unspecified pronoun ’ is present, and represents the actor
• the object is animate and has the form b in the third person
• middle-voice marking is present
• a morpheme d occurs, marking transitivity decrease
Kibrik contrasts the semantics of passive and semipassive constructions. Re-
call that for Kibrik, passives are impersonal; the personal examples in (66)
are of a category he calls ‘potential’. He argues that the actor is animate,
usually human, in both his passive and semipassive types. He further argues
that his passive occurs with inanimate undergoers, while the semipassive
construction is found with animate undergoers; non-human animate undergoers
are found in both constructions.
If, based on the patterning of the overt 1st and 2nd person arguments,
passives are personal, then Kibrik’s claim is not completely true, as (74)
shows.
198 Keren Rice
(74) Navajo passives with human undergoer (Kibrik’s ‘potential’) (Young and
Morgan 1987)
transitive A yiní-A-’á
He sends him on errands (123)
passive l naa-l-’a’
He’s sent on errands
semipassive l nabi’di-l-’a’
He’s sent on errands, ordered around
In this example passive (Kibrik’s ‘potential’) and semipassive constructions
are shown, where there is a human undergoer in both. However, generally,
if the undergoer is animate, the semipassive construction is found. The ex-
amples in (75, 76) contrast passives with inanimate or non-human animate
undergoers and semipassives with animate undergoers, in the same verb.
(75) Navajo passive with inanimate undergoer; semipassive with human undergoer
transitive l niiní-l-tlah
He stopped him (YM: 123)
passive l nii-l-tlah
It was stopped
semipassive l nibi’dee-l-tlah
He was stopped
(76) transitive A né-s^ / biné-s^
I raised, reared, brought up (child, lamb) (Young, Morgan
and Midgette 1992 (YMM): 681)
passive l nees-y^
It (calf) is reared, raised
semipassive l bidi’nees-y^
person is raised, reared, brought up
Kibrik (1996: 288) suggests that in cases where both constructions are avail-
able, in the passive the undergoer is interpreted as an object while in the
semipassive it is interpreted as a rational human-like being. He contrasts the
following examples:
(77) Navajo (Kibrik 1996)
transitive l dibé yoo-l-ghal
He/it ate the sheep (288)
passive l dibé doo-l-ghaA
The sheep will be eaten
semipassive l dibé bi’doo-l-ghal
The sheep was eaten
In the passive form the sheep will be eaten up, and be dead, while in the
semipassive form, the sheep is still alive. Kibrik suggests too that the patient
Athapaskan 199
in the semipassive is more topical than the patient of the passive. The passive
and semipassive appear to differ in terms of the involvement of the patient
– in the passive, the patient is affected; in the semipassive the patient is, in
some sense, involved in the event in some voluntary way.
Structurally the semipassive has two arguments, an unspecified subject (’ )
and a direct object. The 3rd person direct object is b regardless of subject.
While Kibrik proposes functional reasons for this, there are also formal reasons
as well: the subject ’, being non-topical, is contained within the verb phrase;
see Rice (forthcoming-a) for discussion.
4.4 Summary
This completes my discussion of middle voice. I have argued that d is a
marker of middle voice. It appears on its own in passive constructions, and in
combination with another item in other middle-type constructions, where the
d indicates the low elaboration and the additional morpheme indicates how the
low elaboration is to be interpreted. Different kinds of passives are possible
in different languages and sometimes in the same language. The semantics of
passives is not well understood.
5 Causatives
While the middle-voice element has been well studied in the Athapaskan
literature, somewhat less attention has been paid to the causativizer; see Hale
and Platero (1996), Kibrik (1993), Rice (1991, forthcoming-a) for some dis-
cussion. The l element marks valency generally, adding an argument. Cross-
family variation exists in terms of the kind of verb that the causativizer can
combine with. Patientive intransitives are subject to causativization in all
languages, agentive intransitives in some languages, and transitives in fewer
languages. The split in intransitives, where patientive intransitives and agentive
intransitives differ in how susceptible they are to causativization, suggests
that the relevant classes for causativization are better thought of in terms of
thematic roles rather than strictly grammatical roles. The languages also dif-
fer in terms of the kinds of possible causers that can be introduced (only
human controllers, any potential controller).
In examining the causativizer, I start with intransitive verbs with patientive
subjects, and then move through various constructions working up to trans-
itive verbs.
As with the middle-voice marker, the basic form of the causativizer is often
obscured by morphophonological operations. I highlight it when possible.
200 Keren Rice
5.1 Intransitive verbs with patientive subjects
5.1.1 Causatives of events
In all Athapaskan languages that I know of, the causativizer can causativize
an intransitive verb with a patientive subject. Many verbs that are subject to
the causativity alternation inherently involve a change of state, or a process
and an inherent goal. The verbs below are, by and large, event verbs of the
change-of-state type.
(78) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
intransitive Ø too daadle-tsuhtl
Water made a splashing sound
causative A too de-,-tsuhtl
He is causing the water to make a splashing sound / He
made the water make a splashing sound
(79) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
intransitive Ø z-ggan
It is dry (191–2)
causative A c’etsen’ ,-ggan
meat
He is drying the meat (192)
intransitive d s-t-caats
It was liquefied (110–11)
causative A yi-,-caats
He rendered it (111)
intransitive d c’ezes gha-dloz
skin
The skin got crumpled (164)
causative A ighi-,-dloz
He softened it by crumpling (164)
intransitive Ø nen’ ghighi-na’
The earth was shaking (288)
causative A Ats’ii ts’abaeli dghe-,-naa
wind tree
Wind is moving the trees (288)
intransitive l na-l-ghex
It is melting (214)
causative A hwngi-, -ghaen
It (sleeping moose) melted an area
(80) Slave (Rice 1989)
intransitive Ø we-g$
It is dry
causative A yé-h-g$
disjoint.anaphor+asp-caus-dry
S/he dried it
Athapaskan 201
intransitive Ø zhátthí#-zí
The heads are roasted
causative A zhátthí#-h-sí
S/he roasted heads
intransitive Ø ré-zh$
It grew
causative A re-h-sh$
I raised it, grew it
intransitive d satsóné behchiné k’ína-tAah
metal sled
The car goes around
causative A satsónébehchiné k’ína-h-tAah
S/he drove the car around
(81) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987)
intransitive Ø yi-bézh
It is boiling (119)
causative A yi-,-béézh
He’s boiling it
intransitive l yi-l-zhoA
It’s sailing along (as a cloud)
causative A yoo-shoA
He’s dragging it along (as a trunk)
intransitive Ø na’ni-y@@sh
Something flows about in a meandering fashion (119)
causative A na’ni-,-h@@sh
He is making something flow about in a meandering fashion
intransitive Ø tin yí-y**’
ice
The ice melted
causative A yas yí-,-h**’
snow
I melted the snow
(82) Hupa (Golla 1970)
intransitive Ø daw
melt
causative A ,-daw
melt (transitive)
intransitive A gyas
break, snap
causative A ,-gyas
cause to break, snap
intransitive Ø xIs
drop, fall
causative A ,-xIs
send dropping, falling
202 Keren Rice
5.1.2 Causatives of states
The examples above involve events (activities, achievements and accomplish-
ments). Verbs indicating states are also subject to causativization when the
subject is patientive, as are transitions. Two types of verbs are included in the
examples below. First are verbs of location or position. When such a verb is
causativized, the reading assigned is a type of resultative, usually translated
‘keep, maintain in a position’. Second are descriptive verbs; when these are
causativized, a transition is involved, and this is signalled by an aspectual
change – these verbs become events through causativization.
(83) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
intransitive Ø hedaadle-tl’ee
They are staying, sitting
causative A yeh hudaa-tl-tl’ee
She keeps them in the house
intransitive Ø nelaan le-kkonh
The meat (in dish) is there
causative A yeh yee-tl-kkonh
She has it (dish of food) in the house
intransitive Ø ne-dlogge
It is light in weight / He is nimble, agile, light
causative A yee- ,-dlogge
He keeps it light
(84) Hupa (Golla 1970)
intransitive Ø sa-’a:n
It (compact object) is lying
causative A seh-,-’a:
I have it lying there
causative A ch’iwi-,-’a’
S/he kept it
intransitive Ø ni-Ø-Won
be good (76)
causative A O ni-,-Won’
cause O to be good
intransitive Ø ti-Ø-ch’e’
wind starts to blow (201)
causative A O ti-, -ch’e’
cause (wind) to blow, cause O to blow like the wind (202)
intransitive A ni-A-cay
be dry
causative A O A-cay’
cause to be dry
Athapaskan 203
(85) Slave (Rice 1989)
intransitive Ø bet’ádé-’a
post extends, sticks up
causative A yet’ádé-h-’a
S/he has post stuck up
intransitive Ø the-da
S/he sits
causative A yé-h-da
S/he has him/her sit
(86) Navajo (YMM)
intransitive Ø ’íí’á
pole/tree extends away out of sight, sticks up into air (1)
causative A ’íí-,-’á
I held slender rigid object so it extends away into space (2)
intransitive Ø di-bááh
It is turning grey (41)
causative A yiish-bááh
I am turning it grey
(87) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
intransitive d di-t-baets
It turned tan/brown/blond (103)
causative A detse’ tatni-,-baets
She dyed her hair blond
(88) Carrier (Morice 1932)
intransitive Ø ezte-tsen
We are dirty (282)
causative A ezte-,-tsen
We dirty someone
intransitive l hani-l-t’uz
He is bald (282)
causative A hanuhezni-,-t’uz
We make you (pl) bald
Kibrik (1993: 56) suggests that the primary meaning of causatives of statives
is ‘causing an existential/locative state to be maintained, controlling a Goal in
a position’ – these are resultatives. Secondary to the major point here, when
a stative is causativized, it remains a state; when a descriptive is causativized,
it becomes a transitional aspectually.
It is worth pointing out that there are intransitive verbs with patientive
subjects that do not participate in the causativity alternation.
204 Keren Rice
(89) Ahtna
gige’ ndlet
The berries get ripe (161)
No causative form is given by Kari (1990) for this verb, while in general
causatives are listed. I take this, with hesitation, to indicate that the verb is
not subject to causativization. There may be a semantic account of this – here
the subject of the verb must undergo the change autonomously, and thus is
not compatible with an added initiator of the event.
5.1.3 Summary
The examples in this section include both events and states. Based on these
verbs, the following generalizations can be drawn.
(90) When the causativizer is added to an event, it adds an initiator of the event.
When the causativizer is added to a state it:
(a) creates a resultative of a locative verb
(b) adds an initiator of a transition to a descriptive verb (it makes the state
into an event, thus adding an initiator)
When the causativizer is added to an event, it adds an initiator, independent
of the argument structure of the verb (whether the event is intransitive or
transitive) and independent of the aspectual class of the verb (whether the
event is punctual, durative, telic or semelfactive).
5.2 Intransitive verbs with agentive subjects
When intransitive verbs with agentive subjects are examined, we see a split in
the family – some of the languages allow the simple causative construction
seen so far, some allow causativization of these intransitives but require what
Hale and Platero (1996) term a ‘complex causative’ construction (e.g. Navajo),
and some of the languages do not freely allow the verbal causative construc-
tion with agentive transitives (e.g. Slave).
5.2.1 Ahtna, Koyukon, Carrier
Consider first Ahtna, Koyukon and Carrier. The examples in (91–3) illustrate
that the complement in a causative construction can be an intransitive with an
agentive subject.
Athapaskan 205
(91) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
intransitive Ø e-tsah
S/he cries
causative A deketl’e e-,-tsah
He makes his younger brother cry
intransitive Ø nee-yo
He arrived
causative A yeenee-,-yo
He arrived walking him, he made him walk
intransitive Ø tleenee-baatl
He walked out energetically, in a huff
causative A tleeyeenee-,-baatl
She jerked him out
intransitive Ø hedo’eel-zoot
He slid into/inside the house
causative A hedoyeenee-,-zoot
He slid it into the house
(92) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
intransitive d gha-t-na’
He was working (288)
causative A ighe-,-na
He is making him work (288)
intransitive Ø ni-yaa
He arrived (422)
causative A gaa sni-,-yaa
He made me walk here (423)
intransitive Ø nc’e-dlo’
He is laughing (163)
causative A nsc’e-,-dlo’
He makes me laugh
intransitive Ø tez-kaen
He started off in a boat (239)
causative A c’etsen’ nini-,-kaen
He transported the meat (by boat)
(93) Carrier (Morice 1932)
intransitive Ø ne-be
He swims (282)
causative A neye-,-be
He makes him swim
intransitive Ø e-yaA
He is going on (282)
causative A yi-,-yaA
He causes him to go on
206 Keren Rice
5.2.2 Navajo
Navajo too allows causatives of verbs with agentive subjects.
(94) Navajo
intransitive Ø ’awéé’ naa-ghá
baby
The baby is walking around
causative A ’awéé’ nabiish-,-á
baby
I am walking the baby around
intransitive Ø ’awéé’ yi-dloh
baby
The baby is laughing
causative A ’awéé’ biyeesh-dloh
I am making the baby laugh
intransitive Ø heesh-ááA
I step along, shuffle along (YMM: 674)
causative A biyee-,-shááA
I walk (baby) along (by holding its hand); move O along by
‘walking it’ (e.g. heavy refrigerator) (675)
intransitive Ø yí-yóóA
The wind blows (YMM: 724)
causative A binii-sóóA
I make O bloat up, fill up O with gas (e.g. beans)
intransitive Ø ’íí-zhil
I drew in breath sharply, inhaled, gasped (YMM: 773)
causative A ’ashíí-shil
It made me gasp for breath
The causative construction in these Navajo forms is distinct from that used
when the subject is patientive. The two classes of verbs differ in that in one
case no overt direct object pronoun is required in the causative construction
when the subject is non-third person and the object third person (examples in
(86)), while in the other case (examples in (94)), a direct object pronoun is
required when the object is non-third person. Hale and Platero (1996) argue
that the difference between whether the object pronoun is absent or present
rests in the structural configuration of the verb – if the verb is unaccusative,
or has a verb-phrase-internal subject, then the object is not found, while if
the verb is unergative, or has a verb-phrase-external subject, then the object
pronoun is required. However, this generalization does not seem to be com-
pletely correct, as is shown by the forms discussed below. First consider the
verbs in (95), where verbs that seem to be unergative, or have agentive subjects,
occur in the simple causative construction, without an object pronoun.
Athapaskan 207
(95) Navajo unergatives? (YMM)
intransitive Ø náá-baA
S/he is whirling around (48)
causative A náásh-baA
I am twirling, whirling O around
intransitive Ø ’aníí-ch^^’
I fled away out of sight (77)
causative A ’aníí-,-ch^^’
I chased O away out of sight (78)
intransitive Ø nisé-teel
I skated (501)
causative A nisé-,-teel
I rode/drove O around (e.g. snowmobile)
intransitive Ø ’ee-t’a’
It (bird, insect, plane) flies away out of sight (522)
causative A ’íí-,-t’a’
I flew O away out of sight (527)
Second, consider the verbs in (96), where verbs that appear to be un-
accusative, or to have patientive subjects, occur in the complex causative
construction.
(96) Navajo unaccusatives? (Young and Morgan 1987)
intransitive Ø ’aneez-dá
Something sat down (116)
causative A binish-daah
I sit O down, seat O, give O a seat, make O sit down
intransitive Ø shii-jéé’
We are lying (263)
causative A bishéé-,-jéé’
I keep pl. O’
naa’ahóóhai tádiingo bishééAjéé’
I keep 30 chickens
intransitive Ø nét*
I lay down, recline (YMM: 510)
causative A biné-,-t*
I lay O down, made O lie down, put O to bed (baby)
intransitive Ø né-y^
I grew up, reached maturity (YMM: 681)
causative A biné-s^/né-s^
I raised, reared, brought up (child, lamb)
A causativized verb with an experiencer subject also occurs with the object
pronoun.
208 Keren Rice
(97) Navajo (YMM)
intransitive l tsídees-yiz
I was astonished, startled, amazed (708)
causative A tsíbidíí-,-hiz
It startled, frightened, shocked me
While Hale and Platero propose a structural difference between these con-
structions, there are counterexamples in two ways – verbs that appear to be
unergative (95) need not take the object in the causative and verbs that appear
to be unaccusative (96) can take it. What is the appropriate generalization? It
appears that the appropriate generalization is a semantic one: when the causee
is animate or human, the pronoun occurs. However, it is not required, as the
examples in (98) show.
(98) Navajo
intransitive Ø né-y^
I grew up, reached maturity (YMM: 681)
causative A né-s^
I raised, reared, brought up (child, lamb)
causative A biné-s^
I raised, reared, brought up (child, lamb)
The direct object pronoun can also occur when the object is inanimate, but is
functioning in some kind of animate way, as in (94) above, with walking the
refrigerator. The example in (99) is similar, where the object involved appears
to be inanimate. However, cars and their parts often have animate properties
in Navajo.
(99) Navajo (YMM)
intransitive Ø haash-chééh
I start to cry (70)
intransitive Ø béésh haa-chxééh
A whistle, siren starts to blow or wail
causative A habiish-chxééh
I honk it (horn) one time after another
I show below that in the Navajo causative construction, the causee is not in
control. Perhaps the presence of the direct object pronoun in the causative
construction has something to do with whether the causee is human or
animate, or capable of being regarded as such. When the causee of the verb
cannot be or is not perceived as a potential controller, then the pronoun is not
found; when it is a potential controller, or is perceived as such, although not
controlling, then the object is found. This is reminiscent of the discussion of
Athapaskan 209
semipassives in Navajo, where animate nouns could occur in the semipassive
when they are imbued with some kind of human quality.
5.2.3 Slave
Causatives of intransitives with agentive subjects are not possible in all lan-
guages. This type of construction is not usual in Slave, for instance.
(100) Slave (Rice 1989)
intransitive Ø y#-tse
S/he cries
causative A *sey#-h-tse
S/he made me cry
A periphrastic construction is found instead.
(101) Slave periphrastic causatives (Rice 1989)
bebí déh-w’a ’ah-lá
baby 3S-burp 1sgS-cause
I burped the baby
hehtse ’asene-lá
1sgS+cry 2sgS+make-1sgO
You made me cry
nadéhtla ’ay#-lá
3S+go.back 3S+make-disjoint.anaphor
He made him go away
5.3 Transitive verbs
I now consider causativization of transitive verbs. Koyukon allows transitive
verbs to be the complement in the causative construction.
(102) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
transitive l ts’eh nedaa-l’onh
He is wearing a hat
causative A ts’eh yendaa-,-’onh
She let him wear a hat
transitive l eet needaal-tset
He (quickly) put his hand there
causative A yaayedaanee-A-tset
S/he made him touch it, s/he put his/her hand on it
transitive Ø k’eghee-zes
He was drinking something (alcohol), sipping something (hot)
causative A yek’e-A-zes
He is giving him something to drink
210 Keren Rice
In Ahtna, I found only a few transitive verbs that enter into the causative
construction. All of these are given in (103):
(103) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
transitive Ø O-G-Ø-(y)aan
eat O (429)
causative A ic’e-,-yaan
He is feeding something to him
transitive d O-d-naan
drink O (290)
causative A iy’ghi-,-naan’
He gave him something to drink
causative A tuu ughe-,-naan’
I made him drink water
Morice (1932) lists a few transitive verbs that can be causativized as well:
(104) Carrier (Morice 1932)
transitive Ø in-’aA
You sg. eat (it) (283)
causative A be’i-,-’aA
You sg. make him eat it, feed him
transitive d ’eh-tnai
You pl. drink (it)
causative A be’e-,-tnai
You pl. make him drink it
In Navajo too, the same transitives, ‘eat’ and ‘drink’, enter into the causative
construction:
(105) Navajo (YMM)
transitive Ø yish-dl^
I drink O, eat O (soup) (153)
causative A O biish-dl^
I make P drink O
causative A bi’yíí-,-dl^^’
I gave P a drink, fed P (baby, lamb), watered P
transitive Ø yí-y^^’
I ate (692)
causative A biyíí-s^^’
I fed O (food) to P (baby)
In the causatives of transitives, the original direct object, or the direct object
of the embedded clause, remains a direct object and the original subject, or
the subject of the non-causative verb, is expressed as an oblique object.
Navajo also allows causatives to be formed from verbs that are transitive,
with the unspecified object as the direct object. In this case, the added argument
is oblique.
Athapaskan 211
(106) Navajo (Young and Morgan 1987)
transitive l ’al-zhish
He’s dancing (119)
causative A yi’ii-shish
She’s dancing it (as a puppy or baby)
Koyukon is the only language in this survey with a productive morpho-
logical means of forming causatives of transitives; in other languages, causat-
ives of transitives are formed periphrastically.
The causativizer is used under another condition – it can add an ‘extra’
argument to a transitive verb.
(107) Koyukon (Axelrod 1996)
transitive Ø yeel-dzaakk
S/he caulked it with pitch; S/he buttered it; S/he spread
jam on it
extra argument A heyee-tl-dze
S/he glued, stuck it onto a place
(108) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
transitive Ø ukey’nini-tsaes
Put something (pole) against it! (392)
extra argument A itse c’a-,-tses
He is leading him on ahead (with baited pole)
transitive Ø tsiitez-tsaet
He threw it (rock, compact O) (376)
extra argument A u’statsi’nen-,-tsaet
I chased it off by throwing a rock
(109) Navajo (YMM)
transitive Ø ’ashé-lizh
I urinated (374)
extra argument A bíshé-Aizh
I urinated it (e.g. blood)
In Ahtna, the causativizer can also add an oblique argument to an intransitive
verb.
(110) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
intransitive Ø ghi-lets
He urinated repeatedly (278)
extra argument A P# A-lets
Urinate P, pass P in the urine
del Aets
blood
He is urinating blood
212 Keren Rice
5.4 Summary
I have argued that the causativizer can take the following types of verb bases:
(111) Bases for causativization
1 intransitive verb with patientive argument (all languages)
2 intransitive verb with agentive argument (Ahtna, Koyukon, Carrier,
Navajo)
3 both intransitive verb and transitive verb (productive) (Koyukon)
There is a hierarchy, with intransitive verbs with patientive arguments the
most likely to be causativized, and transitive verbs the least likely. This
hierarchy is not a surprising one. Intransitive verbs with patientive arguments
are the most likely to undergo causativization because these contain no lexic-
ally specified initiation of the event that they depict. The eventive dyadic
verbs include an initiation of the event in their lexical representation, and thus
are the least likely to allow the addition of an argument that specifies an
initiation.
5.5 On the semantics of the causer
The languages also differ in what kind of causer is possible. To begin with
the most narrow definition, in all languages the causer can be human. I do not
repeat examples here; this is shown in many of the examples.
In some languages, a non-human that is capable of control can be a causer.
This is true of Ahtna and Koyukon.
(112) Ahtna (Kari 1990)
intransitive l naagha-l-’uuts
I am relaxed (93)
causative A tuu nilaeni nasghi-A-’uuts’
beer
The beer limbered me, relaxed me
intransitive l na-l-ghaex
It is melting (214)
causative A naghaay kaghi-A-ghaen
frog
It (nature) thawed out the frogs
(113) Koyukon (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
intransitive Ø k’edeghee-lee’
He sang
causative A sotseeyh ek’ede-A-lee
happiness
Happiness is making him sing
Athapaskan 213
causative A gheeno’ yedenaa-tl-dlut
maggot
It became full of maggots (maggots brought it to a boil)
intransitive Ø daaneel-lenh
There is a stream, current is flowing in stream
causative A too kk’utl ets’aadaanee-A-leenh
water
Cold water runs out of there (current is causing cold water
to flow out)
In other languages, it appears that the causer is limited to humans. Thus, in
all languages the causer, or initiator of the event, can be human, while in
some languages, the initiator can be non-human, but must be something with
volitional force.
Dixon (this volume) lists several ways in which one causer might differ
from another. It might act directly or indirectly. To my knowledge, causers
act directly in Athapaskan languages. Another causer-related parameter that
Dixon proposes is that the causer may achieve the result intentionally or
unintentionally. This type of intentionality on the part of the causer is not
expressed directly in the causative construction in these languages; an event
is indicated as unintentional or not by other means. For instance, consider the
following examples from Ahtna.
(114) Ahtna intentionality/non-intentionality of causer (Kari 1990)
(a) tuu nilaeni nasghi-A-’uuts’
beer
The beer limbered me, relaxed me (93)
(b) hwngi-A-ghaen
It (sleeping moose) melted an area (214)
(c) ciiA ’uygge ya-A-ghax
boy 3 oblq.on
The boy melts it by lying down on it (214)
It is impossible for beer to intentionally cause the achieved state of relaxa-
tion; it is possible but not necessary that the moose melted the area intention-
ally; it is likely (but not necessary) that the boy melted the ice intentionally.
This must be stated elsewhere in the discourse.
A third parameter involving causers concerns whether the causer initiates a
natural process or one requiring effort. Again to my knowledge the causer
may carry the action out with or without difficulty; this must be expressed
elsewhere in the discourse.
214 Keren Rice
It appears that, across the languages that I have examined, the most typical
causer is one that represents the sole initiator or cause of the event.
5.6 On the semantics of the causee
The semantics of the causee remains to be examined. Causees can differ in
that they may or may not be in control; if the causee is in control, then the
action may be carried out willingly or not (see chapter 2). In general, in
Athapaskan languages the causee does not act volitionally, and is not in
control; thus the action is not carried out willingly.
I begin with the most limited case, a language like Slave where causees are
generally non-human since only patientive intransitives are normally subject
to causativization. In this case, the question of willingness or control does not
arise, as typical patients are not volitional beings. It is thus in languages
where the causee is potentially capable of control that the question of control
becomes interesting.
Consider next Navajo. Recall that Navajo allows patientive and agentive
subjects to function as causees in causative constructions. The semantics
of the agentive causees is interesting. Examples are given in (94) above.
The translations are revealing – they involve babies and refrigerators in the
examples in (94), and also drunks and puppies. In all cases, the causees are
animate or functioning as animate-like (refrigerator). The causees are not
in control and are not volitional, but are controlled by the causer. It is not
necessarily the case that the causee is unwilling to carry out the activity or
achieve the state specified by the verb, but the causee is not volitional. The
English translation is ‘make, have’; it can, but need not, be ‘force’.
Koyukon exhibits a different range of possibilities, as can be seen in the
following examples. First, the causee may be controlling.
(115) Koyukon willing causees (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
intransitive l ts’eh nedaa-l-’onh
hat
He is wearing a hat
causative A ts’eh yendaa- ,-’onh
She let him wear a hat
Second, the causee may be non-controlling. This seems to be the general case.
(116) Koyukon non-controlling or non-volitional causees (Jones and Jetté
forthcoming)
intransitive Ø nee-yo
S/he arrived
Athapaskan 215
causative A yeenee-A-yo
He arrived walking him, made him walk
intransitive l hedenaadle-tl’ee
They sat down
causative A hudenaa-tl-tl’ee
He sat them down, made them sit down
intransitive l eet needaa-l-tset
there
He (quickly) put his hand there
causative A yaayedaanee-A-tset
She made him touch it, put his hand on it
intransitive Ø ghee-zeeA
S/he was shouting
causative A ye-A-zeA
S/he is making him cry out
In these examples, the causer controls the causee. In Koyukon, then, there
may be ambiguity as to whether the causee is in control, or willing, or is
unwillingly involved in an event.
It appears that, in general, causees are not volitional, and do not exercise
control in the morphological causative construction. It is interesting to con-
sider the glosses of causatives of transitive verbs. Recall that in languages
other than Koyukon where transitives can be causativized, the verbs that are
subject to causativization are restricted to ‘eat’ and ‘drink.’ The causative of
‘eat’ is usually translated ‘feed,’ implying that the causer puts the food in the
mouth of the causee; the causative of ‘drink’ could also involve such direct
control. The best causee across the family then is one that is not autonomous,
but is controlled.
Athapaskan languages have a syntactic periphrastic causative construction
as well as a morphological one. It is possible to express permission as well as
force through the use of this periphrastic construction. Interestingly, at least
in Slave, the causative verbs that take complements are ambiguous, allowing
either a causative or a permission reading.
(117) Slave periphrastic causatives (Rice 1989)
(a) Mary yek’ago-li gú ’ay#-lá
3S taste-disjoint.anaphor comp 3S+let/make/allow-disjoint.anaphor
S/he let Mary taste it (1304)
(b) nadéh-tlah ’ay#-lá
3S-taste 3S+let/make/allow-disjoint.anaphor
He made him go away
216 Keren Rice
5.7 Summary
To summarize, we find the following situations:
(118) semantics of the causee
1 When the causee is incapable of control, only a ‘make’ reading is poss-
ible (all languages).
2 If the causee is capable of control, either a ‘make’ reading or a ‘let’
reading is possible (Koyukon).
The table in (119) summarizes the findings about causatives.
(119) Causatives
language Ahtna Koyukon Slave Navajo Carrier Hupa
aspectual state, state, state, state, state, state,
characteristics event event event event event event
conditions on agent or agent or patient agent or agent or patient
causee patient patient (normally) patient patient
causee control no possible no no no no
causee make make, let make make make make
willingness
causer direct direct direct direct direct direct direct
or indirect
6 On the interaction of middles and causatives
So far, we have seen evidence for morphological marking of middles and
causatives. In this section, I consider situations which involve both a middle
and a causative. I begin with the less common case, situations where two overt
voice/valency markers are present on the surface, and then turn to the more
common case, that in which a single voice/valency marker is present on the
surface, but both a middle and a causative meaning are contained within
the verb.
6.1 Overt double voice/valency in Navajo
Young and Morgan list a few cases with two voice/valency markers in Navajo.
(120) Navajo double voice/valency
l middle
yi-l-woA
He is going along flexing, he is running along (YMM: 885)
Athapaskan 217
A causative
’ahání-,-hod
I broke it in two by flexing it
A + l causative of middle
yiyoo-,-wol
He is causing it to run along, he is running it along
In the middle form, only l is present; in the causative only l is. In the
causative of the middle, there is an overt causativizer (l) but l is also present.
This can be seen from the presence of voicing on the stem-initial consonant;
it would be voiceless, as in the causative form, if l were not present.
Another Navajo example is given in (121):
(121) Navajo
d
ndish-’-na’
I got up (YMM: 885)
A + d
nábidii-,-’-na’
I stood it back up (e.g. fallen corn plant)
In the first example, d is present, as can be seen by the presence of the glottal
preceding the stem-initial n. In the second example, d is still present, but the
causativizer is as well. Thus, in these two examples of causatives of middles,
both a lexical middle marker (d, l) and a causative marker (l) surface.
This is not the norm in Navajo; see, for example, YMM: 885 for discus-
sion. In general, when a verb is a causative of a middle, just the causativizer
is present on the surface. This can be seen in the examples in (122).
(122) Navajo: single voice/valency phonologically; double voice/valency
semantically
lexical l hani-l-gháásh
It bubbles, boils, comes to a boil (YMM: 234)
causative A ’anii-,-haazh
I brought it to a boil
lexical l ’ii-zhood
It slides away out of sight (YMM: 787)
causative A ’iish-shood
I drag it away out of sight (heavy, long trunk, sled)
lexical d hodii-’-nááh
area starts to move or shake (YMM: 420)
causative A hodiish-nááh
I cause area to shake
218 Keren Rice
lexical d yish-j**h
It turns black, becomes tarnished, gets sunburned (YMM: 782)
causative A yish-sh**h
I dye O black (wool), colour O black, oxidize O, turn O black
In these causatives, the l or d is missing. This can be seen in the verbs with
lexical l in that the stem-initial fricative is voiceless; it can be seen in the
verbs with lexical d in that the D-effect (glottal before /n/; stop counterpart of
fricative) is absent. Thus, in Navajo, the surface double voice/valency forms
may represent a historical state, but synchronically the forms with double
voice/valency must be regarded as frozen.
6.2 Overt double voice/valency in Hupa
Hupa is different from Navajo in providing two overt markings of voice/
valency in a way that seems to be at least somewhat productive.
Consider first iteratives. These take d middle voice, as in (123).
(123) Hupa double voice/valency (Golla 1970)
intransitive Ø adverb-xo-Ø-’aW/’an
pl. subject run somewhere (80)
middle d adverb-na-xo-di-’aW/’an
pl. subject run back somewhere
If the verb has a lexical voice/valency marker with phonetic content, two
voice/valency markers surface.
(124) Hupa double voice/valency (Golla 1970)
transitive A O wi-A-teA
move (one person) along (87, 119)
middle A-d O na-wi-A-di-te:l
move (one person) along back
intransitive l wi-l-daA
(one) runs along (87)
middle l-d na-wi-l-di-daA
(one) runs along back
Double marking of voice/valency is found in other cases also. The examples
in (125) and (126) are causatives of stative verbs; these yield possessives,
where the resultant state implies a prior event. These causatives contain not
just the causativizer, but an optional middle-voice marker as well.
(125) Hupa double voice/valency (Golla 1970)
intransitive l si-l-q’as
(stones) lie thrown (158, 191)
Athapaskan 219
causative A-d O si-A-di-q’as
have O (stones) lying thrown
(126) Hupa double voice/valency – analogy (Golla 1970)
intransitive Ø si-da
sg. animate sit, dwell
causative A(d) O si-A-da / O si-A-di-da
have O sitting, own a pet (192)
Golla suggests that in the first type, as in (125), the stative verb is historically
a middle derived from a transitive; hence the presence of a middle-voice
element. The second class, as in (126), he proposes was derived analogically
from the first.
A complex derivation is shown in (127).
(127) Hupa causative of passive (Golla 1970)
transitive A O A-tiW
move (one person) somewhere (181)
passive l l-ten
(one person) has been moved somewhere
causative A A-di-ten
have (one person) moved somewhere (182)
Here a passive is formed through the addition of d, yielding l, and a further
causative is formed on the passive, yielding the compound voice/valency
marker.
6.3 Covert double voice/valency
One might expect that middles of causatives and causatives of middles should
be possible, even if markings for both do not surface because of, for instance,
constraints on possible consonant clusters in a language. This is indeed the
case. In this section I look at forms with both voice and valency. The trees in
(128) show the general situation – basically, a middle formed on a causative
has l voice/valency while a causative formed on a middle has the l valency
marker.
(128) (a) VP (b) VP
VP causative VP middle
middle causative
realization: A realization: l
causative of middle middle of causative
220 Keren Rice
6.3.1 Middles built on causatives
Having sketched the general situation, I turn to specific examples, beginning
with middles built on causatives. In the expression ‘causative + middle’, I
mean that the middle is built on a causative as in (128b).
(129) Koyukon middles built on causatives (Jones and Jetté forthcoming)
intransitive Ø tsaanee-let
He woke up (Ø)
causative A ts’aayeenee-,-let
He woke her up
causative + middle l ts’aahodee-let
He woke himself up
intransitive Ø e-tsah
He cries
causative A deketl’e e-,-tsah
He makes his younger brother cry
causative + middle l yede-l-tseh
He makes him cry for his own satisfaction, by his
own selfishness
intransitive Ø ne-dlogge
It is light
causative A yee-,-dogge
He keeps it light
causative + middle l beA de-l-dlogge
He keeps his sleep light (is a light sleeper)
(130) Ahtna middles built on causatives (Kari 1990)
intransitive Ø di-k’aan
It ignited (248)
causative A idi-,-k’aan
He lit it, he built a fire
causative + middle l i’di-l-k’aan
He built a fire for himself
(131) Navajo middles built on causatives (Kibrik 1996)
intransitive Ø yi-tin
It is freezing
causative A yi-,-tin
S/he is freezing it
causative + middle (passive) l yi-l-tin
It is being frozen
Another Navajo example is more complex. In (120) above, repeated below,
a causative of a middle was shown.
Athapaskan 221
(132) Navajo
l middle
yi-l-woA
He is going along flexing, he is running along (YMM: 885)
A causative
’ahání-,-hod
I broke it in two by flexing it
A + l causative of middle
yiyoo-,-wol
He is causing it to run along, he is running it along
This can be further passivized. (The stem form is in a different aspect here.)
(133) Navajo passive of (132)
passive of causative
habii-l-yeed
It is being run up out (Young and Morgan 1987: 373)
This is a middle-causative-middle derivation. In this form, a direct object
pronoun, b, occurs. We have already seen two cases in which an unexpected
direct object pronoun surfaces, in semipassives with 3rd person subjects and in
causatives with causees that are capable of being volitional. Here a semipass-
ive is found. It appears that something that is capable of running has animate-
like qualities, suggesting the use of b. Clearly, the function of this pronoun
requires further study.
(134) Carrier middles built on causatives (Morice 1932)
intransitive Ø i-tsagh
I weep (285)
causative A i-,-tsagh
I cause O to weep
causative + middle (passive) l i-l-tsagh
I am made to weep
intransitive Ø – nes-yeh
I grow
causative A nes-yeh
I raise/rear O
causative + middle (passive) l nez-l-yeh
I get raised/reared
(135) Hupa middles built on causatives (Golla 1970)
intransitive A A-cay’
get dry (177)
222 Keren Rice
causative A O ,-cay’
dry O
causative + middle (passive) l O l-cay’
O has been dried
These are basic intransitives, with causatives built on them, and then a middle.
The combination of a middle built on a causative is marked by l. Hupa allows
a recausativization, where we see the dual voice/valency marking, with d
marking the middle voice and l the further causativization.
6.3.2 Causatives built on middles
There are also causatives built on middles. These are most obvious in Hupa.
(136) Hupa causatives built on middles (Golla 1970)
transitive A O A-taq’
count O (170)
middle (passive) l O l-taq’
O is counted
middle + causative A-d O ,-di-taq’
cause O to be counted
In this example, a causative is built on a passive, which in turn derives from
a transitive. In the following example, two causative derivations can be seen,
with a middle (passive) sandwiched in-between.
(137) Hupa: a complex derivation (Golla 1970)
intransitive A A-cay’
get dry (177)
causative A O ,-cay’
dry O
causative + middle (passive) l O l-cay’
O has been dried
causative + middle + causative A-d O ,-di-cay’
have O dried
I have not found many examples of causatives of derived middles (only of
lexical middles) in the Ahtna, Carrier, Koyukon or Navajo material that I
have worked through. There could, perhaps, be a phonological reason for
this. Notice that in Hupa, the plain causative and the causative of the middle
differ in that the plain causative has just the l valency marker while the
causative of the middle has marking for both middle voice and causativity. In
the other languages, overt double marking is not found. Thus, the causative
and the causative of the middle would look the same. It is worthwhile to
examine causatives to see if they can be ambiguous in meaning between a
reading where the complement is a transitive or a middle.
Athapaskan 223
7 Summary: the productive use of the voice/valency elements
I have reviewed the major functions of the voice/valency elements, following
others in assuming that d indicates middle voice and l is a causativizer. Both
are functional predicates; the specific meaning is derived through constructional
analysis. While in all Athapaskan languages that have been studied the voice/
valency markers have productive functions, it has also long been recognized
that lexicalization of these elements is rampant, and I turn to this topic now.
8 Lexicalization
In previous sections, I have generally used verbs with a null marking for
voice/valency in their basic lexical entry. However, this is quite artificial – all
the voice/valency elements (Ø, l, d and the compound l) can be part of the
basic lexical entry. It is thus generally assumed in the Athapaskan literature
that the voice/valency elements are used idiosyncratically as well as product-
ively; see, for instance, Kibrik (1993, 1996), Thompson (1996a) and Axelrod
(1996) for recent discussion. Basically, what we see is that many different
classes of verbs are compatible with the full range of voice/valency markers.
All data here is from Ahtna, although similar facts are reported across the
family.
First, basic transitives can appear with any of the four voice/valency
elements.
(138) transitives
Ø O-G-Ø-taatl’
kick, step on, shove O with sole of foot (323)
Ø O-G-Ø-ghaan
make pl. O, kill pl. O (204)
A O-G-A-tsii
make sg. O (204)
d O-d-naan
drink O (290)
l O-G-l-daetl’
eat pl. O (261)
While the middle voice hypothesis might account for the presence of l in ‘eat
pl. O’ – there is low elaboration of the object – the verb ‘make pl. O, kill pl.
O’ does not have a marking for middle voice. The verb ‘make sg. O’ has the
causativizer; this is not surprising for a basic transitive verb, but all of these
verbs are transitives.
224 Keren Rice
Similar patterning is found with intransitives. The full range of voice/
valency markers is possible. The examples in (139) show intransitive verbs
with agentive subjects.
(139) Ø Ø-bae
sg. swim on surface (101)
A A-yaaA
jump, move, run quickly, vigorously; bird lands (423)
d d-tsaak’
pl. run, leap, jump
l l-tlet
sg. run, leap, jump (368)
The singular and plural of ‘run, leap, jump’ differ by the presence of the
causativizer only. While it is possible to explain some of these forms by the
middle-voice hypothesis, just which verbs are marked for middle voice and
which are not, and which of those that are have d and which have l can
perhaps be explained historically (see Axelrod 1996; Kibrik 1993, 1996;
Thompson 1996a) but is idiosyncratic synchronically.
Intransitives with patientive subjects likewise appear with the full range of
elements.
(140) Ø G-Ø-t’aes
roast, fry, bake (347)
A G-A-kaets’
enclosed object moves independently, falls
d G-d-caats
be rendered, liquefied (111)
l G-l-ts’et
animate or compact object moves independently, falls
Similar properties are found in other classes of verbs. The choice of voice/
valency does not appear to correlate with semantic properties in descriptive
or locative verbs.
(141) descriptive
Ø G-Ø-k’ats’
weather, inanimate is cold (253)
A G-A-caax
be big, large, tall, high, great in quantity or volume (109)
d G-d-gak’
be dirty (179)
l G-l-ggaak
be stout, fat, thick, big in girth (189)
Athapaskan 225
(142) locative
Ø Ø-tae
sg. animate lie, recline
A A-taets
pl. animate lie, recline (331)
d d-l-ts’ii
pl. sit, stay
In verbs relating to eating, all four voice/valency markers are possible.
(143) Ø O-G-Ø-(y)aan
eat O
Ø O-G-Ø-tsaet
eat, gulp whole O
A O-A-k’on
gnaw, eat O (bone) with crunching noise
d O-d-naek
devour O, eat O greedily
l O-G-l-ghel
eat pl. O
The presence of d/l in the verbs ‘devour O’ and ‘eat pl. O’ might be con-
sidered to be middle voice, but one might expect ‘eat, gulp whole O’ to be
middle voice as well. Some of these have overt marking for causativity, but
not all of them do. While some of the marking for voice/valency is predict-
able, overall it is idiosyncratic.
Some verbs allow more than one voice/valency marker.
(144) Ø/A G-n-Ø/A-yaa
grow, grow up, mature (420)
l/d G-l/d-baats’
be round, circular (with n noun class marker), be cylindrical (with d
noun class marker) (99)
l/A G-l/A-bets
be wide, broad (106)
A uk’e’sdeyaani de-A-bets
table
The table is wide
l tsaani uk’e hwne-l-bets
bear 3 poss.track
The bear’s track is wide
Kari remarks in several cases that the variation in voice/valency marking is
baffling.
226 Keren Rice
Kibrik (1993, 1996) and Axelrod (1996) argue that much of what is called
lexicalized follows from the basic functions of the voice/valency elements.
Axelrod defines these basic functions as follows for Koyukon:
(145) definitions of d and l (Axelrod 1996)
d affectedness of object or subject; overlap of subjects and objects in
space; indeterminacy of subject
A coordinate/complex subject or object; addition of extra argument or
instrument; purposeful, deliberate or habitual/attributive activity
Note that the first definition of d, affectedness of object or subject, differs
from the middle-voice definition. Lack of individuation is more important
under the middle hypothesis; under Axelrod’s description, there is no reason to
deny individuation, although other pieces of the definition (overlap, indeter-
minacy) are consistent with the middle-voice hypothesis.
Axelrod argues that d is used when the object is completely affected by the
activity, and provides the following Koyukon pairs.
(146) affectedness of object (Axelrod 1996)
Ø O-Ø-zes
sip O (hot liquid), drink O (alcoholic beverage)
d O-de-noon
drink O, absorb O (liquid)
Ø O-G-Ø-’oyl
chew O (meat), bite O
l O-G-l-daatl
eat pl O (pieces of meat, bits of food, scraps), snack on O
Axelrod points out that in the first of each pair, the object is not wholly
affected, while in the second example of the pair, it is.
Axelrod argues that l can be used when the object is coordinate or complex.
(147) Koyukon coordinate or complex object (Axelrod 1996)
Ø O-de-G-Ø-tl’oo
weave, knit O
A O-ne-A-tl’ool
braid O, splice O by braiding
It can also be found when the subject is complex or coordinate.
(148) Koyukon coordinate or complex subject (Axelrod 1996)
A G-A-ton
bag or enclosed object is there
A G-A-kooA
flat, flexible or clothlike object is there
Athapaskan 227
The marker l, on the other hand, is used if the subject is a group or collective
entity.
(149) Koyukon group or collective subject with l (Axelrod 1996)
l l-’aatl
pl. animals, flock of waterfowl swim in group, fish spawn
l l-’ots
(herd, flock) mill around, move slowly; (insects) swarm
The lexical l can be used with verbs with an instrument.
(150) Koyukon instrumental verbs with l (Axelrod 1996)
A O-G-A-tlaatl
split O (wood), strike O with axe
A O-G-A-dzets
strike, hit O with fist, punch O, box O
However, as Axelrod notes, there are verbs of this class that do not occur
with l.
(151) Koyukon instrumental verbs without l (Axelrod 1996)
Ø O-G-Ø-t’ekk
bat, strike, beat O with sticklike object
Ø O-G-Ø-tletl
chop O, strike O with axe
This is simply a sampling of the patternings noted by Axelrod. She argues that
these are not completely regular, but illustrate language change – the voice/
valency prefixes are obligatory, representing ‘the ghost of what was once a
productive grammatical and lexical system, which is now losing grammatical
function, and merging its lexical, semantic character with the semantics of
the stem’ (21).
The uses of the causativizer described so far all involve adding an argu-
ment. Kibrik (1993) discusses a number of additional uses where argument
structure is not affected. One is what he calls agentivization. A few examples
are found in Navajo where a verb with an experiencer argument can have an
agentive argument in the presence of the l causativizer.
(152) Navajo derived agentive subjects (Kibrik 1993, citing first edition of Young
and Morgan (YM) 1987)
Ø yoo-’*
S/he sees him/her
A yini-,-’*
S/he looks at, examines him/her (YM 1980[dictionary]: 420)
228 Keren Rice
Ø disíní-ts’^^’
You heard it
A yíní-,-ts’^^’
You listened to it (YM 1980[grammar]: 344, 767)
A second function that Kibrik assigns the l is action perfectivization / patient
affection.
(153) Action perfectivization / patient affection (Kibrik 1993)
Hupa
Ø k’iwing-ya’n
S/he ate it
A ch’ineh-,-ya:n
S/he ate it up
The causativizer is also used in action intensification in some languages.
(154) Navajo action intensification (Kibrik 1993)
Ø yii-nod
S/he licks it
A yi-,-naad
S/he is licking it
Finally, the causativizer appears in comparative constructions in some
languages.
(155) Hupa comparative construction (Kibrik 1993)
Ø ne:s
It is long, tall
A ’a-,-ne:s
It is so long, quite tall
(156) Navajo comparative construction (Kibrik 1993)
Ø yi-tsoh
It (e.g. snowfall) is big
A biláá ’ání-,-tsoh
It is bigger than that (YM 1980[dictionary]: 794, 117)
Many subpatterns exist to suggest that the l element was once more than a
causativizer. Historical accounts are often available for single lexical items or
for small groups of lexical items. However, other items with what appears
to be similar synchronic semantics pattern differently, making a synchronic
explanation for all voice/valency marking post hoc. The two functions that
really seem to be of productive status synchronically are those of middle
voice (e.g. reflexive, reciprocal, passive, iterative, self-benefactive, errative)
and causativity (with different conditions in different languages).
Athapaskan 229
9 Summary and conclusions
I have argued for the following points in this chapter:
(157) 1 two major voice/valency elements
2 middle voice
(i) productive in construction with some elements (e.g. passive,
reflexive, reciprocal, iterative)
(ii) lexicalized in other cases, with many productive subpatterns
3 causative
(i) productive as causativizer
(ii) conditions differ from language to language on whether agentive
verbs can be causativized
(iii) causatives generally involve unwilling (‘make’) or non-controlling
rather than willing (‘let’) causees
(iv) may be lexicalized with other subpatterns
As is obvious from this discussion of voice/valency, this system is part of
the overall transitivity system of the language. Hopper and Thompson (1980)
provide a number of correlates of high- and low-transitivity situations. These
correlates are involved in both the argument system and the aspect system of
the verb. The following table shows properties of prototypical transitivity.
(158) Properties of prototypical transitivity (Hopper and Thompson 1980)
high low
participants 2 or more participants 1 participant
kinesis action non-action
aspect telic atelic
punctuality punctual non-punctual
volitionality volitional non-volitional
affirmation affirmative negative
mode realis irrealis
agency A high in potency A low in potency
affectedness of O O totally affected O not affected
individuation of O O highly individuated O non-individuated
The Athapaskan voice/valency markers exhibit many of the properties out-
lined by Hopper and Thompson, as shown in (159).
(159) middles causatives
between transitive and intransitive highly transitive
lowly elaborated participants two or more participants
overt initiator of event
high potency subject
230 Keren Rice
Athapaskan causatives represent highly transitive situations – addition of the
causativizer guarantees two or more participants; introduces an overt causer,
or initiator, of an event; it generally involves a volitional subject, or at least a
subject that is high in potency. Middles fall between prototypical transitives
and prototypical intransitives, as Kemmer (1993) points out. While, for in-
stance, two arguments maybe involved in middles, those arguments have a
single semantic referent. Alternatively, participants may be lowly elaborated
and non-individuated. I will end with one final property of middles, their
aspectual nature.
In (159), we see that middles fall between transitives and intransitives
while causatives are highly transitive. It is interesting to note one further
characteristic in many Athapaskan languages that differentiates middles (both
lexical and productive) from causatives. In a number of Athapaskan languages,
prefixally marked perfective morphology differs depending upon whether the
verb is a middle or a causative. In particular, in causatives (lexical or product-
ive; also with verbs without an overt voice/valency marker), the perfective
prefix is present, while in middles (marked by either d or l), this prefix is
absent, with the verb showing imperfective prefix morphology.
(160) voice/valency and aspect (e.g. Navajo, Slave, Dogrib, Chipewyan, Sekani)
perfective paradigms:
Ø, A – perfective prefix /D/ surfaces
d, l – perfective prefix is absent; imperfective prefix morphology
It has often been assumed that the perfective marker is present lexically in d
and l voice/valency verbs, and is deleted by a phonological rule (see, for
instance, Kari 1976 and Hargus and Tuttle 1997 for treatments in different
phonological frameworks). The middle-voice hypothesis provides a different
account. As Hopper and Thompson point out, one correlate of low transitivity
is atelicity. Verbs in the middle voice are marked for punctuality, telicity and
atelicity in Athapaskan languages; it is perfectivity that they lack. However,
perhaps the origins of the absence of the perfective prefix in d and l voice/
valency verbs lies in the voice system: in middle-voice verbs, the endpoint is
not distinct from the point of initiation, and perfectivity, which requires an
endpoint, is less relevant. This absence of the perfective would then be sys-
tematic and not a consequence of some idiosyncratic phonological property.
This tantalizing hypothesis is worthy of further study; it may be that semantic
rather than phonological factors control the appearance of the prefixal perfect-
ive marker.
Athapaskan
231
Appendix 1: causatives – language survey
Ahtna Koyukon Slave Hupa Carrier Galice Mattole Navajo Tututni
patientive intransitive yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
agentive intransitive yes yes no no? yes no? ? yes no?
transitive limited yes no no? limited no? ? limited no?
possible control by causee no yes no no no ? ? no ?
possible willingness of causee no yes no no no ? ? no ?
causer direct/indirect direct direct direct direct direct ? ? direct ?
causer accidental/intentional either either either either either ? ? either ?
natural/effort either either NA NA either ? ? either ?
232
Keren
Rice
Appendix 2: middle voice – language survey
Ahtna Koyukon Slave Hupa Carrier Galice Mattole Navajo Dena’ina Tsuut’ina Sekani Tututni
reflexive yes yes yes no yes ? yes yes yes no yes yes
reciprocal yes yes yes yes yes ? ? yes yes yes yes yes
indirect reflexive yes yes yes no ? ? ? yes yes ? ? ?
(intransitives) (some)
indirect recip. ? yes yes yes ? ? ? rare yes ? yes ?
(intransitives) (some) (‘give’) (‘give’)
self-benefactive yes yes yes yes ? ? ? yes ? ? ?
incorporated body parts* yes yes yes NA yes NA NA NA some yes ? NA
mediopassive** yes yes yes yes yes ? ? yes yes yes ? ?
spontaneous middle yes yes yes ? yes ? ? yes ? ? ? ?
passive yes ?
promotional yes yes yes no yes yes yes ? yes yes
nonpromotional yes yes yes yes ? yes yes yes yes ?
semipassive no no no ? no ? yes no NA no
1pl. subject NA NA yes yes yes yes yes yes NA yes yes yes
extension yes yes ? ? ? ? ? yes ? ? ? ?
iterative yes yes yes yes yes ? ? yes yes yes yes yes
errative yes yes NA NA yes ? ? yes yes ? ? ?
repetitive/perambulative no yes yes no ? ? ? no no ? yes ?
perfective prefix in NA NA no no NA no no no NA NA no ?
middle?
* aspectual conditions
** medioreflexives with d (sticklike object – ‘arms’ and ‘legs’) or n (round object – ‘head’); inherent reflexives
Athapaskan 233
References
Aikhenvald, A.Y. Forthcoming. Classifiers. A typology of noun classification devices.
To be published by Oxford University Press.
Arce-Aranales, M., Axelrod, M. and Fox, B. 1994. ‘Active voice and middle diathesis:
a cross-linguistic perspective’, pp. 1–21 of Voice: form and function, ed. B. Fox
and P. Hopper. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Axelrod, M. 1990. ‘Incorporation in Koyukon Athapaskan’, International Journal of
American Linguistics 56.179–95.
1993. The semantics of time: aspectual categorization in Koyukon Athapaskan.
Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press.
1996. ‘Lexis, grammar, and grammatical change: the Koyukon classifier prefixes’.
Paper presented at the Milwaukee conference on functionalism vs formalism.
Cook, E.-D. 1984. A Sarcee grammar. Vancouver: University of British Columbia
Press.
Corbett, G.G. 1991. Gender. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined
constructions’, pp. 71–113 of Essays on language function and language type,
ed. J. Bybee, J. Haiman and S.A. Thompson. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Goddard, P.E. 1905. The morphology of the Hupa language, University of California
Publications 3. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Golla, V. 1970. ‘Hupa grammar’. Ph.D. dissertation. University of California, Berkeley.
1985. A short practical grammar of Hupa. Hoopa, Calif.: Hoopa Valley Tribe.
1997. ‘The “indefinite” deictic subject pronoun in California Athabaskan’. Talk
presented at the Athapaskan Languages Conference, University of Oregon, Eugene,
Oregon. May.
Hale, K. and Platero, P. 1996. ‘Navajo reflections of a general theory of lexical
argument structure’, pp. 1–13 of Athabaskan language studies: essays in honor
of Robert W. Young, ed. S. Midgette, E. Jelinek, K. Rice and L. Saxon.
Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.
Hargus, S. 1988. The lexical phonology of Sekari. New York: Garland.
Hargus, S. and Tuttle, S. 1997. ‘Augmentation as affixation in Athabaskan languages’,
Phonology 14.177–220.
Hoijer, H. 1966. ‘Galice Athapaskan: a grammatical sketch’, International Journal of
American Linguistics 32.320–7.
Hopper, P.J. and Thompson, S.A. 1980. ‘Transitivity in grammar and discourse’,
Language 56.251–99.
Jones, E. and Jetté, J. Forthcoming. Koyukon Athabaskan dictionary. Fairbanks: Alaska
Native Language Center.
Kari, J. 1976. Navajo verb prefixing. New York: Garland.
1990. Ahtna Athabaskan dictionary. Fairbanks: Alaska Native Language Center.
Kemmer, S. 1993. The middle voice, Typological studies in language 23. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Kibrik, A.A. 1993. ‘Transitivity increase in Athabaskan languages’, pp. 47–67 of Caus-
atives and transitivity, ed. B. Comrie and M. Polinsky. Amsterdam, Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
234 Keren Rice
1996. ‘Transitivity decrease in Navajo and Athabaskan: actor-affecting propositional
derivations’, pp. 259–303 of Athabaskan language studies: essays in honor of
Robert W. Young, ed. E. Jelinek, S. Midgette, K. Rice and L. Saxon. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Krauss, M. 1969. ‘On the classification of the Athapaskan, Eyak, and the Tlingit
verb’, International Journal of American Linguistics, Supplement, 35.49–83.
Li F.-K. 1930. Mattole, an Athapaskan language. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
McDonough, J. 1989. ‘Argument structure and the Athapaskan “classifier” prefix’,
Proceedings of the West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics 8.220–45.
Morice, A.G. 1932. The Carrier language, Vol. II. St.-Gabriel-Mödling, Austria:
Anthropos.
Rice, K. 1989. A grammar of Slave. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
1991. ‘Intransitives in Slave (Northern Athapaskan): arguments for unaccusatives’,
International Journal of American Linguistics 57.51–69.
Forthcoming-a. ‘Monadic verbs and argument structure in Ahtna, Navajo, and Slave’.
In Athabaskan language and linguistics, ed. T. Fernald and P. Platero. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Forthcoming-b. Morpheme order and semantic scope: word formation in the
Athapaskan verb. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Saxon, L. 1990. ‘Dogrib passives’. Paper presented at the Conference on Athapaskan
Languages and Linguistics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia.
Saxon, L. and Rice, K. 1993. ‘On subject-verb constituency: evidence from Athapaskan
languages’, Proceedings of the West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics
11.434–50.
Stanley, R. 1969. ‘The phonology of the Navaho verb’. Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Story, G. 1989. ‘The Athapaskan first duoplural subject prefix’, pp. 487–531 of
Athapaskan linguistics: current perspectives on a language family, ed. E.-D.
Cook and K. Rice. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Tenenbaum, J. 1978. ‘Morphology and semantics of the Tanaina verb’. Ph.D. dis-
sertation. Columbia University.
Thompson, C. 1989a. ‘Voice and obviation in Athabaskan and other languages’. Ph.D.
dissertation. University of Oregon.
1989b. ‘Pronouns and voice in Koyukon Athabaskan: a text-based study’, Inter-
national Journal of American Linguistics 55.1–24.
1989c. ‘Voice and obviation in Navajo’, pp. 466–88 of Proceedings of the Fourth
Annual Meeting of the Pacific Linguistics Conference. Eugene: Department of
Linguistics, University of Oregon.
1996a. ‘The Na-Dene middle voice: an impersonal source of the D-element’, Inter-
national Journal of American Linguistics 62.351–78.
1996b. ‘The history and function of the yi-/bi- alternation in Athabaskan’, pp. 81–
100 of Athabaskan language studies: essays in honor of Robert W. Young, ed.
E. Jelinek, S. Midgette, K. Rice and L. Saxon. Albuquerque: University of New
Mexico Press.
Athapaskan 235
Willie, M.A. and Jelinek, E. 1996. ‘Navajo as a discourse configurational language’.
Paper presented to the Conference on Athabaskan Syntax and Semantics,
Swarthmore College, Pennsylvania, April.
Young, R.W. and Morgan, W. 1987. The Navajo language: a grammar and colloquial
dictionary, 2nd edn. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.
Young, R.W. and Morgan, W. with Midgette, S. 1992. Analytical lexicon of Navajo.
Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press.
236 Lyle Campbell
7 Valency-changing derivations
in K'iche'
LYLE CAMPBELL
1 Introduction
In this chapter the principal valency-changing derivations in K'iche' are de-
scribed, following Dixon and Aikhenvald’s (1997) framework. K'iche', spoken
by 658,000 in highland Guatemala, is a Mayan language of the K'ichean
subgroup.1
It is particularly relevant for those interested in valency-changing
derivations, since it has two distinct passive constructions, two separate anti-
passive constructions, and an ‘instrumental voice’ applicative construction,
among other things.2
These various constructions have a range of functions,
and some exhibit idiosyncrasies that have proved vexing to formal theories
(see, for example, Davies and Sam-Colop 1990; Hale and Storto forthcom-
ing; Larsen 1987; and Trechsel 1982, 1993). In this attempt to characterize
K'iche' valency-changing derivations, I present each of these constructions in
turn, considering their morphology, basic meaning, syntactic functions and
some of the peculiarities that are relevant to understanding them.
2 Transitivity
A grasp of K'iche' verb classes and their morphology is necessary in order to
understand the valency-changing constructions; therefore, I begin with a brief
1
K'iche' is also spelled ‘Quiché’; ‘K'iche'’ is the official spelling now used in Guatemala, but
‘Quiché’ was the general spelling before the 1980s. I gratefully acknowledge helpful feedback
on an earlier version of this chapter from Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald and R.M.W. Dixon, though
of course they are innocent of any misuse I may have made of their comments.
2
It should be pointed out that while there is a reasonably large literature on these constructions
of K'iche', much of it relies on Mondloch’s work, particularly his 1981 dissertation, which is
an excellent and extremely thorough treatment of the topic. I have utilized all this literature
liberally in this paper, but feel it important to point out Mondloch’s special position and unique
contribution to these studies.
K'iche' 237
Figure 7.1. K'iche' cross-referencing Ergative and Absolutive verb prefixes
S/O function (Absolutive, traditionally called ‘set B’):
-in- 1sg.abs -ox- (or -ux-) 1pl.abs3
-at- 2sg.abs (familiar) -iz- 2pl.abs (familiar)
lah 2sg.abs (reverential)4
alaq 2pl.abs (reverential)
-Ø- 3sg.abs -e:(b')- 3pl.abs5
A function (Ergative, traditionally called ‘set A’) pronominal markers have two
variants, depending on whether the root they are attached to begins in a consonant or
a vowel:
C-initial V-initial
in- w-/(inw-) 1sg.erg
a- aw- 2sg.erg (familiar)
lah 2sg (reverential)
u- r- 3sg.erg
qa- q- 1pl.erg
i- iw- 2pl.erg (familiar)
alaq 2pl (reverential)
ki- k- 3pl.erg
3
There is variation in the literature about how the 1st person plural absolutive prefix is written.
The independent 1st person plural pronoun is invariably ox; however, the absolutive prefix
seems to vary between -ox- and -ux-. The dialect represented in Mondloch’s work is Nahualá,
where it is -ux-, and therefore this is the form given in much of the literature on K'iche'. Here,
I make no attempt to regularize one or the other of these, but rather simply repeat the variant
presented in the sources utilized.
4
K'iche' has (in most dialects, not all) two sets of 2nd person pronouns; those which I call
‘reverential’ (lah ‘2sg.rev’ and alaq ‘2pl.rev’) are sometimes also called ‘formal’ and ‘honor-
ific’ in the linguistic literature on the language. Their function is more honorific, reverential,
deferential than the typical formal/informal contrast such as in Spanish tu/usted; that is, while
in European languages the semantic attributes of power and social distance are associated with
the formal 2nd person pronouns and solidarity with the informal, in K'iche' the power/solidar-
ity dimension is less important and thus the reverential pronoun may be freely used, for
example, with friends and family in ceremonial settings where reverence is in order, with an
older person, and with people who are charged with high responsibility in the rotating civil–
religious hierarchy. Since the reverential pronouns are never cross-referenced on the verb in
any way, but are always present in full form in the sentences which contain them (unlike other
independent pronouns, which are optional), they are not represented with a -Ø- in the verbal
morphology. Since they have no cross-referencing and appear in the same form in A, O, S and
oblique contexts, in a few cases it is difficult to determine clearly their role in the clause.
5
The 3pl.abs varies in the dialects, with eb' (its oldest form) alternating with eq or e:. In the
better-known dialects, it is most frequently e:, but shows up also as eb' sometimes, for example
before vowel-initial morphemes in some cases.
overview of transitivity in K'iche'. K'iche' is an ergative language, where
ergative alignment is signalled through cross-referencing pronominal prefixes
on the verb, shown in figure 7.1.
K'iche' exhibits none of the split ergativity characteristic of some ergative
languages. Moreover, while basically morphologically ergative, most of its
238 Lyle Campbell
syntactic rules are not sensitive to ergativity, although we will see that it does
have a syntactic pivot which gives it a degree of syntactic ergativity (see
below).
Some seemingly minor features of the pronominal system are significant
for understanding valency-changing derivations in K'iche', and therefore it is
necessary to bear three of these in mind.
First, in modern K'iche', in- marks 1sg in both Absolutive and Ergative
functions, though in Colonial K'iche', 1sg.erg was nu-, which has since
shifted to in-, making the 1sg.erg and 1sg.abs homophonous. This homo-
phony motivates the use of valency derivations to avoid ambiguities in some
cases (discussed below). The set of ergative prefixes is identical to the set
of possessive pronominal prefixes, except for nu- ‘my’ which occurs with
consonant-initial roots; both the Ergative set and the possessives have the
two variants, one used with consonant-initial forms and the other with vowel-
initial forms (seen in figure 7.1), as illustrated in:
(1) Consonant-initial
(a) qa-ts'i:L (b) U-Ø-qa-ts'ib'-a:x
1pl.poss-dog asp-3sg.abs-1pl.erg-write-tr
our-dog We wrote it
Vowel-initial
(c) q-ik (d) U-Ø-q-il-oh
1pl.poss-chili asp-3sg.abs-1pl.erg-see-tr
our-chili We saw it
Second, K'iche' has reverential 2nd person pronouns (sg and pl), which are
distinct from the 2nd person familiar forms (seen in figure 7.1). The reveren-
tial 2nd person forms differ from other K'iche' pronouns in that they take no
cross-referencing affixes in the verb, neither in S/O function nor in A func-
tion (that is, they are marked the same way in transitive and intransitive verbs
– i.e. they lack any overt marking). Numerous examples of these are seen
throughout this chapter.
Third, it is essentially only human nouns which can bear overt morpho-
logical plurals in K'iche', though plurality of a noun can be shown by the 3rd
person plural pronominal affixes on verbs which cross-reference a nominal
(which itself may bear no formal distinction between singular and plural).
However, sometimes singular agreement is also used with semantically plural
(but morphologically unmarked) NPs, in which case plurality is determined
by context rather than by explicit grammatical marking. For example, in (2)
and (3) le: ts'iq ‘the dogs’ / ‘the dog’ has the same form, where the plurality
K'iche' 239
in (2) and singularity in (3) is conveyed by the difference, not in the NP, but
in the verb between the plural (-e:-) and singular (-Ø-) prefixes:
(2) U-e:-kam le: ts'iL
asp-3pl.abs-die the dog
The dogs died6
(3) U-Ø-kam le: ts'iL
asp-3sg.abs-die the dog
The dog died
Notice in (4) that le: aPix-a:b' ‘the men’, with an overtly marked morpho-
logical plural (-a:b'), and le: ts'iq ‘the dogs’, with no visible marker of plural-
ity, are nonetheless each cross-referenced with 3rd person plural agreement
markers in the verb:
(4) U-e:-ki-kam-isa:-x le: ts'iL le: aQix-a:b'
asp-3pl.abs-3pl.erg-die-caus-tr the dog the man-pl
The men killed the dogs
2.1 Verb classes
K'iche' has three classes of verbs, transitives, intransitives and posi-
tionals, each with its own set of morphological markers.
2.1.1 Intransitive
Intransitive verbs are characterized morphologically by (1) pronominal pre-
fixes in the S function (absolutive) and (2) an ‘intransitive’ suffix, -ik, which
occurs only when the verb is phrase-final (before a pause), but is not present
when the verb is followed by another word, as seen in the comparison of (5)
with (6):
6
It may be helpful to point out that K'iche' articles and demonstratives have a visible / not
visible distinction; thus le: ‘the.visible’, ri ‘the.not.visible’. Note also that are: ‘this, he’ is areq
in isolation but are: before other words in many K'iche' dialects, though it is areq everywhere
in a few. This word also functions as a focus marker and is translated by many as ‘Focus’ (foc)
in cleft and similar constructions. In this chapter, I cite the examples taken from other sources
by transliterating those written in the practical orthography into linguistic symbols and give the
morpheme-by-morpheme glosses in the same format throughout. In some cases, the vowel
length of K'iche' comes out inconsistently, though I have tried to make it consistent in these
examples, since in a few dialects cited by some linguists (see, for example, Sam-Colop 1988,
and Davies and Sam-Colop 1990), most of the long vowels have merged with corresponding
short vowels. With respect to articles and demonstratives, sources cite vowel length and pres-
ence or absence of glottal stop with considerable variation and often inconsistency, some of it
conditioned by legitimate variation within the variety described. A particular difference is that
very few forms in K'iche' end in a vowel, though final h is difficult to hear and variable, and
is often transcribed by non-linguists as absent or as length on the preceding vowel. I have
restored the h in these forms.
240 Lyle Campbell
(5) U-at-war-ik
asp-2sg.abs-sleep-intr
You slept
(6) U-at-war xela:L
asp-2sg.abs-sleep there
You slept there7
2.1.2 Transitive
Transitive verbs divide into two subclasses, each with its own set of suffixes:
root (or non-derived, ‘monosyllabic’) transitives, traditionally abbreviated ‘rtv’
in Mayan linguistics, and derived (also called ‘polysyllabic’), abbreviated ‘dtv’.
It is important to keep these two kinds of transitives and their associated
morphology in mind in order to understand the valency-changing processes
discussed in this chapter. dtvs end in -x ‘transitive’ (both phrase-finally
and non-phrase-finally); rtvs take -oh (or -uh if the vowel of the verb root
is u) when the verb occurs phrase-finally (as in (7a)), but nothing when the
verb is followed by another word in the clause (as in (7b)):
(7) (a) U-Ø-ki-k'uU-uh
asp-3sg.abs-3pl.erg-chew-tr
They chewed it
(b) U-Ø-ki-k'uU le: ats'yaq le: Q'oh
asp-3sg.abs-3pl.erg-chew the clothes the mouse
The mice chewed the clothes
7
One interesting oddity in several Mayan languages is the type of intransitive sentence which
seems to exhibit higher transitivity than would be expected of intransitive verbs, sentences
which in semantic effect have an A-role NP – albeit signalled obliquely – acting on an S-role
NP as though it were an underlying O. These are used quite frequently in Jakalteko, Mam and
other Mayan languages of the Huehuetenango region, but somewhat less frequently in K'iche'.
Two K'iche' examples are:
(1) U-Ø-ul le: wu:x w-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-arrive the book 1sg.poss-by
The book arrived by me/I brought the book
(Larsen and Norman 1979: 349; Kaufman 1990: 77)
(2) U-Ø-b'e:h le: wu:x r-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-go the letter 3sg.poss-by
The letter went by her / She sent the letter (Trechsel 1982: 80)
These are in effect causative sentences in which the intransitive verb exhibits no derivational
causative morphology (though K'iche' has a productive causative suffix, -(i)sa- (see §5), which
could have occurred), but which nevertheless appear to take an agent in an oblique ‘by’ phrase.
The -uma:l phrase means ‘by, through, because of’ (and is used to express the ‘by’ phrase of
real passives – see §3.1), and sentences such as these have the feel of being on their way from
an ordinary ‘because of’ sense towards a grammaticalization of a causative of intransitive
verbs.
K'iche' 241
One constraint on transitive clauses is that a 3rd person A (sg or pl) and a
2nd person reverential O (sg or pl) cannot co-occur; sentences such as (8) and
(9) are ungrammatical:
(8) *k-u-toL lah ri aQih
asp-3sg.erg-help 2sg.rev.abs the man
The man helps you
(9) *k-ki-toL alaq ri iUoq-i:b'
asp-3pl.erg-help 2pl.rev.abs the women
The women help you
The simple passive is often used to avoid this problem (see below).
A related constraint is that transitive clauses which would have combina-
tions of 1st person singular -in- (erg or abs) and 2nd person reverential (sg
or pl) as core arguments are avoided and the absolutive antipassive is pre-
ferred instead (see below). Thus, (10a) is avoided, generally given instead in
the absolutive antipassive counterpart, as shown in (10b) (Mondloch 1979:
173–5):
(10) (a) ?U-in-tsuku-x lah
asp-1sg.erg-look.for-tr 2sg.rev.abs
I looked for you
(b) U-in-tsuku-n Q-e:h lah
asp-1sg.abs-look.for-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to 2sg.rev
I looked for you
These two constraints are seen more clearly in table 7.1 (where ‘+’ means
‘can co-occur’ and ‘–’ means ‘does not co-occur’).
2.1.3 Positionals
The third class of verbs, positionals, are verbal/adjectival roots whose mean-
ing has to do with positions and shapes. They are distinguished from other
verb classes in that: (1) they typically have the semantic property of referring
Table 7.1. Constraints on transitive clauses
1O 2Osg.rev 2Opl.rev 3O
1Asg (–) (–) +
1Apl + + +
2A + +
3Asg + – – +
3Apl + – – +
242 Lyle Campbell
to positions or qualities of objects (e.g. ‘sit’, ‘stand’, ‘squat’, ‘lie face up’, ‘lie
face down’, ‘duck down’, etc.); (2) by means of special suffixes which occur
only with positional roots, positionals can be derived to form adjectives,
intransitive verbs or causatives; (3) all positional roots have the shape CVC;
and (4) they do not occur as simple inflected stems without derivational
affixes (Norman 1973, Mondloch 1976). Some of the derivational morpho-
logy used uniquely with positionals is illustrated in the following:
-V1l positional adjectives:
ts'uy-ul ‘seated/sitting’ (adjective)
tak'-al ‘standing’
-iq intransitive inchoative (‘to assume position or state X’):
U-Ø-ts'uy-iL-ik ‘she sat’
U-Ø-tak'-iL lah ‘you (rev) stood’
-V1-b'aq causative:
k-Ø-u-ts'uyu-b'aL ‘he seats it’
k-Ø-u-tak'a-b'aL ‘he stands it up’
2.1.4 Some categories which K'iche' doesn’t have
Given that K'iche' clauses are clearly marked either transitive or intransitive
morphologically, surface ambitransitives (verbs used in both intransitive and
transitive clauses) are essentially unknown, though the same root can undergo
derivational processes whereby it can be encountered in clauses of different
valency.8
K'iche' also has no specific marking for extended transitives; argu-
ments which are not core A, O or S arguments are generally present only in
oblique constructions. The oblique constructions in Mayan languages are
based on possessed noun roots (possession shown by possessive pronominal
prefixes). These constructions are called relational nouns in Mayan (and
Mesoamerican) linguistic literature; relational nouns signal the sort of loca-
tions and relations that are shown by prepositions in English. A typical ex-
ample is P(i)r-e:h ‘to/for him, her, it’, made up of Pi ‘in, at’ + r- ‘3sg.poss’ +
-e:h ‘to’ (etymologically from *e:h ‘tooth’; P(i)r-e:h is often contracted –
unlike most other relational nouns – to Pe:h). In Mayan languages these
relational nouns are obligatorily possessed. In the case of underlying core NP
arguments of verbs which are placed in oblique phrases through various
derivations, ‘the nominal that bears the grammatical relation acts as the
8
There is a minor class which is related to the notion of ambitransitives, but to understand its
characteristics, it is necessary first to have in mind the valency derivations, especially the
antipassives; for that reason, we come back to this topic later.
K'iche' 243
possessor of the relational noun and is cross-referenced by the appropriate
morpheme from the set of ergative [sic, read ‘possessive’] agreement markers’
(Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 525).
2.2 Constituent order
Constituent order in K'iche' is variable but far from entirely free. Much has
been written on K'iche' word order; aspects of it are well understood and yet
there are differences of opinion concerning some matters. One thing that is
clear is that constituent order in K'iche' on the whole is a poor indicator of
the semantic roles of NP arguments in transitive clauses. While it is generally
agreed that VOA is the most common and most neutral, constituent order is
relatively flexible, and all the other logical orders do occur (under conditions
of focus and topicalization; see Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993: 131–2; Larsen
1987; Sam-Colop 1988: 8–11).
In reality, transitive clauses with two overt core arguments (overt NPs) are
rare. Mondloch (1978b) found only 20 transitive sentences containing both an
A and an O nominal NP in 1,380 lines of transcribed narrative, and while
VOA was in the lead (7 instances), examples of all the other logically pos-
sible orders also occurred (AVO, AOV, OVA, OAV, VAO). Larsen (1987: 40)
characterizes K'iche' as both a ‘pro-drop’ or ‘null-subject’ and ‘null-object’
language, since A, S and O can be missing, indicated solely by pronominal
cross-referencing prefixes in the verb. This being the case, sentences with
external NPs very often are not in the most neutral order (VOA), but reflect
processes of focussing or topicalization (see below). Moreover, VOA is not
the most frequent order in elicitation, either, but this sort of elicitation creates a
discourse context suggestive of emphasis, in which it is necessary to introduce
a discourse topic, which tends to appear in preverbal topic position. This,
then, often brings forth AVO, which reflects this focus/emphasis (cf. Larsen
1987; more details below). There may be an important fieldwork lesson in
this for studies of constituent order (word order) based on direct elicitation,
namely, that caution in interpreting data collected in this way is called for.
In sum, constituent order is too flexible to be a reliable gauge for dis-
tinguishing A from O in transitive clauses. In most of Mondloch’s 20 cases,
semantics or context left the sentences clearly unambiguous, but some am-
biguous cases are possible – whenever both A and O are 3rd persons of the
same number. This is an important point for our interest in valency changing,
since one significant function of the antipassives and passives in K'iche' is to
disambiguate sentences where the role of the A and O participants is not
otherwise clear (see below). Some examples of this ambiguity are:
244 Lyle Campbell
(11) U-Ø-u-kuna-x ri aQih ri iUoq
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cure-tr the man the woman
(1) The woman cured the man
(2) The man cured the woman (Mondloch 1978b: 11)
(12) U-Ø-pe: ri aQih ri U-Ø-u-kuna-x ri iUoq
asp-3sg.abs-come the man rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cure-tr the woman
(1) The man whom the woman cured came
(2) The man who cured the woman came (Mondloch 1978b: 6)
(13) xaQi:n U-Ø-u-kuna-x ri aQih
who asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cure-tr the man
(1) Whom did the man cure?
(2) Who cured the man? (Mondloch 1978b: 6)
After we have seen how the valency derivations work, we will come back
to such ambiguous sentences to see how they are typically disambiguated
through the use of one of the other valency devices. Also, we will see that
there are constraints against some of these possibilities.
In cases where both the A and O person markers in the verb are 3rd
persons of the same number and there is a single external NP, this NP is
generally interpreted as O, as in (Mondloch 1979: 168):
(14) U-e:-ki-toL ri aQix-a:b'
asp-3pl.abs-3pl.erg-help the man-pl
They helped the men / (rather than ‘the men helped them’)
This is consistent with the general claim that new information is introduced
through NPs in O (and S) roles, and usually not through A-role NPs.
Finally, K'iche', unlike some languages, is not at all timid about having
inanimate As, e.g.:
(15) k-Ø-u-yak nu-xolo:m le: puqla:x
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-irritate 1sg.poss-head the dust
The dust irritates my head [my nose and mouth]
(16) U-Ø-u-qax-isa:-x ri ab'i:U ri saqb'aQ
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-descend-caus-tr the cornfield the hail
The hail knocked down the corn
3 Derivations which remove an argument from the core
3.1 Simple passive
The simple passive is signalled by the morphological markers: -z with dtvs,
and vowel length in rtvs. Note that the lengthened vowel which marks the
K'iche' 245
passive in the root transitives comes historically from an infixed -h- in Proto-
K'ichean (and Proto-Mayan). A few examples of rtv active/passive pairs are:
b'it/b'i:t ‘tear / be torn’, b'an/b'a:n ‘do, make / be done, made’ k'ut/k'u:t ‘show
/ be shown’ and loq'/lo:q' ‘buy / be bought’. (In some dialects, the length
is no longer visible before a root-final /L/, yaq (or ya:q) ‘give’.) The passive
is intransitive in form, permitting only one core argument, S (absolutive),
which is interpreted as the underlying O (underlying patient / transitive direct
object), and the underlying A is either omitted (as in (17a)) or demoted to an
oblique ‘by’ phrase signalled by the relational noun -uma:l ‘by’ which bears
possessive prefixes which indicate the person and number of the underlying
A, as in (17b). These two are compared with an active transitive version in
(17c):
(17) (a) k-ox-to:L-ik
asp-1pl.abs-help.pass-intr
We are helped
(b) k-ox-to:L k-uma:l
asp-1pl.abs-help.pass 3pl.poss-by
We are helped by them
(c) k-ox-ki-toL-oh
asp-1pl.abs-3pl.erg-help-tr
They help us
As for the function/meaning of the simple passive, ‘the emphasis is placed
on the object with the emphasis on the action done to the object’ (Mondloch
1978a: 62). The passives are marked as intransitives by taking S (absolutives)
as the only permitted core argument and by the intransitive suffix, phrase-
final -ik, as in (18) and (19):
(18) U-Ø-Qa:p-ik [rtv]
abs-3sg.abs-grab.pass-intr
She was caught
(19) k-e:-Uib'i-U-ik [dtv]
asp-3pl.abs-scare-pass-intr
They were frightened
Compare the active (the (a) sentences) and passive (the (b) sentences) in
the following examples:
(20) (a) U-Ø-u-loq' xun k'aLa:m r-ule:w ri w-ika:n
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-buy one cord his-land the my-uncle
My uncle bought a measure of land (Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993: 135)
246 Lyle Campbell
(b) U-Ø-lo:q' xun k'aLa:m ule:w r-uma:l ri w-ika:n
asp-3sg.abs-buy.pass one cord land 3sg.poss-by the my-uncle
A measure of land was bought by my uncle (Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993: 136)
(21) (a) U-e:-ki-q'alu:-x ri ak'al-a:b' ri tixonel-a:b'
asp-3pl.abs-3pl.erg-hug-tr the child-pl the teacher-pl
The teachers hugged the children (Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993: 136)
(b) U-e:-q'alu-U ri ak'al-a:b' k-uma:l ri tixonel-a:b'
asp-3pl.abs-hug-pass the child-pl 3pl.poss-by the teacher-pl
The children were hugged by the teachers (Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993: 136)
The simple passive is used also when the speaker wishes to ignore the
underlying A (transitive subject) or to give it only secondary importance.
Compare the following active–passive contrasts illustrated in (22a–c):
(22) (a) U-Ø-u-tiL ri ak'a:l ri ts'iL
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-bite the child the dog
The dog bit the child
(b) U-Ø-ti:L ri ak'a:l r-uma:l ri ts'iL
asp-3sg.abs-bite.pass the child 3sg.poss-by the dog
The child was bitten by the dog
(c) U-Ø-ti:L ri ak'a:l
asp-3sg.abs-bite.pass the child
The child was bitten
There is an important constraint on the simple passive: if the underlying A
(logical transitive subject) is not a 3rd person, the clause cannot be passivized
with this construction. That is, for the simple passive, the argument in A role
cannot be a 1st or 2nd person form (sg or pl). For example, (23a) has no
corresponding simple passive as shown by the ungrammaticality of (23b):
(23) (a) U-Ø-in-Q'a:b'e-x ri aQih
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-speak-tr the man
I spoke to the man
(b) *U-Ø-Q'a:b'e-U ri aQih w-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-speak-pass the man 1sg.poss-by
*The man was spoken to by me (Mondloch 1979: 208–9)
(There is no such constraint on the completive passive, see below.) This is
not an uncommon constraint; many languages have passives which cannot
apply to underlying 1st or 2nd person As. Since this passive emphasizes
underlying Os, and since in the animacy hierarchy 1st and 2nd persons are
more frequently As, this constraint is typologically plausible.
K'iche' 247
Above (§2.1.2), the constraint was pointed out whereby an active transitive
clause with a 3rd person A (sg or pl) cannot have a 2nd person reverential (sg
or pl) as O. Frequently the simple passive is used to express the equivalent of
these clauses. In these instances, the 3rd person A is presented in the oblique
‘by’ phrase. Compare the following pairs, where the (a) sentences are the
acceptable simple passive version, and the (b) sentences are the expected but
prohibited and ungrammatical active transitive version:
(24) (a) k-to:L lah r-uma:l ri aQih
asp-help.pass 2sg.rev.abs 3sg.poss-by the man
You are helped by the man
(b) *k-u-toL lah ri aQih
asp-3sg.erg-help 2sg.rev.abs the man
*The man helps you
(25) (a) k-to:L alaq k-uma:l ri iUoq-i:b'
asp-help.pass 2pl.rev.abs 3pl.poss-by the woman-pl
You are helped by the women
(b) *k-ki-toL alaq ri iUoq-i:b'
asp-3pl.erg-help 2pl.rev.abs the woman-pl
*The women helps you
Finally, the simple passive is in no way like the constructions known in
some languages – which are sometimes called passive – which are used
specifically to keep any A role NP out of the picture (like the Finnish ‘imper-
sonal’ passive, for example). Rather, it is claimed that K'iche' speakers seem
always to have a ‘someone’ in mind as involved in the action in these passive
sentences even when no -uma:l ‘by’ phrase is present to specify the under-
lying A participant (see Mondloch 1979). This can be seen in the passivized
versions of verbs which contain directional prefixes. K'iche' verbs can take
the directional prefixes -ul- ‘hither’ (historically from ul ‘arrive’) and -e:-
‘thither’ (historically from b'e:h ‘go’). In the case of passivized verbs con-
taining these directionals, the ‘coming hither’ or ‘going thither’ is attributed
to an agent whether or not one is specified overtly in the clause. For example,
in (26) it is some unspecified agent who is ‘going’ in order to get the bench,
and not ‘the bench’ which is cross-referenced with the 3sg.abs -Ø- marked
on the verb that is ‘going’ (Mondloch 1979: 221). (Note in the following
examples, that the directionals require the verb to bear the suffix used in other
contexts for dependent clauses (here labelled dep): -oq phrase-finally and its
allomorph -ah non-phrase-finally.)
248 Lyle Campbell
(26) U-Ø-e:-k'a:m-ah ri te:m
asp-3sg.abs-dir.go-get.pass-dep the bench
Someone went to get the bench
Not: *The bench goes to be gotten
(27) k-in-ul-sik'i-U-oq
asp-1sg.abs-dir.come-call-pass-dep
Someone comes to call me (i.e. I get called and someone comes to do that)
Not: *I come to be called
3.2 Completive passive
The completive passive (which has also been called ‘the inchoative-stative
passive’: Mondloch 1978b) is very different from the simple passive in a
number of ways. It is formed by the suffix -(V)tax on both rtvs (-k'ut-utax
‘get shown’, -mes-tax ‘get swept’) and dtvs (-tsuku-tax ‘get looked for’,
-kamisa-tax ‘get killed’). The verb is intransitivized, with the underlying O
promoted to S and the underlying A-role participant either deleted or de-
moted to an oblique ‘by’ phrase. When in phrase-final position, the completive
passive verb can take the intransitive morpheme -ik, but this is optional (it is
not optional with other intransitive roots and derived intransitive verb forms).
The completive passive conveys the meaning of the completion of an action
(– more Aktionsart than ‘aspect’). The primary function of the completive pass-
ive is to emphasize ‘the result of the activity and/or its termination’ (Dayley
1981: 24; see also Sam-Colop 1990: 136). Mondloch (1978a: 62) defines it in
the following way:
the spotlight [is] focused on the object of the verb phrase, but now we are
not concentrating so much on the action done to it [as in the simple passive]
as we are on emphasizing the condition or state of the object, resulting from
the action done to it. Therefore, . . . [k-Ø-k'ayi-tax-ik [asp-3sg.abs-sell-
cmpl.pass-intr]] means ‘it will get sold’, or ‘it will finish being sold’.
[Completive passive] here emphasizes the ‘becoming’ (coming-to-be in a
state). [Emphasis in the original.]
Sentences (28–30) illustrate this passive:
(28) U-Ø-kam-isa-tax le: utiw q-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-die-caus-cmpl.pass the coyote 1pl.poss-by
The coyote got killed by us
(29) k-kuna-tax lah
asp-cure-cmpl.pass 2sg.rev.abs
You will get cured
K'iche' 249
(30) U-Ø-pili-tax xun ak' r-uma:l le: iUoq
asp-3sg.abs-butcher-cmpl.pass one chicken 3sg.poss-by the woman
A chicken got butchered by the woman
As seen in (28) and (29), with the completive passive there is no constraint
against an underlying A (logical transitive subject) which is not a 3rd person,
as there is with the simple passive (cf. §3.1). Here, the completive passive has
no constraint against 1st and 2nd person agents appearing in the -uma:l ‘by’
phrase, as the simple passive does; agents in any person may optionally be
expressed in the -uma:l ‘by’ phrase, whether 1st, 2nd or 3rd person, illus-
trated further in (Mondloch 1979: 240):
(31) U-Ø-mes-tax le: u-pa: xa:h w-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-sweep-cmpl.pass the 3sg.poss-interior house 1sg.poss-by
The inside of the house got swept by me
(32) U-ux-tixo-tax iw-uma:l
asp-1pl.abs-teach-cmpl.pass 2pl.poss-by
We got instructed by you
Compare the following, where (33a) is the completive passive and (33b) is
the simple passive counterpart, which is ungrammatical:
(33) (a) U-in-Q'ay-tax aw-uma:l
asp-1sg.abs-hit-cmpl.pass 2sg.poss-by
I got hit by you
(b) *U-in-Q'a:y aw-uma:l
asp-1sg.abs-hit.pass 2sg.poss-by
*I got hit by you
As seen in (34), the S cross-referencing affix, -e:- 3pl.abs agrees in person
and number with the surface subject (underlying O) of the clause, ri ak'ala:b'
‘the children (plural)’ in this case, and not with the demoted A, ki-ta:t ‘their
father’, underlyingly singular in this case:
(34) U-e:-tsuqu-tax ri ak'al-a:b' r-uma:l ki-ta:t
asp-3pl.abs-feed-cmpl.pass the child-pl 3sg.poss-by their-father
The children got fed by their father
Also, as with the simple passives, speakers interpret the completive passive
clauses as having an underlying agent even where none is specified by an
-uma:l ‘by’ phrase. Thus, just as with the simple passives, when the direc-
tional affixes are present in the verb, they are attributed to an agent, to
‘someone’ or ‘somebody’, and not to the surface S (underlying object) of the
250 Lyle Campbell
clause, as seen in the comparison of the following two sentences (Mondloch
1979: 249):
(35) U-in-e:-riqi-tax-oq
asp-1sg.abs-dir.go-find-cmpl.pass-dep
Someone went to get me found (I got found and someone went to do that)
Not: *I went to get found
(36) U-iU-ul-kuna-tax-oq
asp-2pl.abs-dir.come-cure-cmpl.pass-dep
Someone came to finish curing you (You got cured and someone came to
do that)
Not: *You came to get cured
3.3 Agent-focus antipassive (‘agentive voice’)
As will soon be clear, this first K'iche' antipassive construction has a rather ex-
tensive literature of its own. In form, it has different morphological markers,
-ow (or one of its allomorphs) for root transitive verbs (rtvs) and -n for derived
transitive verbs (dtvs). Like the passives, both antipassive constructions
are marked intransitively by (1) taking the absolutive pronominal affixes
to signal the single cross-referencing personal pronominal affix (though see
the important complications discussed below) and (2) by taking the phrase-
final intransitive marker -ik. The purpose of the agent-focus antipassive is to
place emphasis on the A (Mondloch 1978a: 71). The agent-focus antipassive
can apply without restriction to transitive verb roots; as we will see below,
this is not the case with the ‘absolutive’ antipassive, where not all transitive
verbs permit it. This agent-focus antipassive is employed also when the A-
role NP is ‘extracted’ (and therefore by default focussed) in constructions
where it is questioned, relativized or placed in focus (clefted) by preposing:
‘Rules such as WH-Questions, relativization and focus may be collectively
characterized as extraction rules, since they extract a constituent from its
position and move it over an indefinite number of other constituents without
however altering its grammatical relation’, and in several of the Mayan sub-
groups these extraction rules must be ‘constrained from applying to ergative
subjects [A-role NPs]’ (Larsen and Norman 1979: 357). In many Mayan
languages, an ergative NP cannot be questioned, relativized or clefted (though
absolutive NPs can be). Sentences with an underlying A trigger instead a shift
to antipassive in these instances (Larsen and Norman 1979: 357; Dayley
1981: 10; see below). Tom Smith-Stark calls this the ‘inert ergative con-
straint’ (reported in Dayley 1981: 10). In K'iche' in these extractions, the
K'iche' 251
verb is made intransitive and the underlying A, when it is cross-referenced
(see below for conditions), is represented by an absolutive pronominal affix
in the verb. Transitive clauses with extracted surface As ordinarily do not
occur in the language (Mondloch 1979: 172; see below for exceptions). This
is characterized in the following ways: ‘The focused subject [underlying A]
is always expressed before the verb as a noun or independent pronoun (or
some substitute for them)’ (Mondloch 1978b: 10); ‘In this construction
[agent-focus antipassive] the agent (or actor) must be extracted, i.e. it must
be focussed . . . the agent obligatorily precedes the verb’ (Davies and Sam-
Colop 1990: 525); ‘Each of these three types [WH-questions, relativization
and focus (clefted)], is characterized by the obligatory presence of an NP or
other sentential constituent in the “focus” position immediately preceding the
verb and by the obligatory presence of a gap or “empty” constituent in some
position following the verb [the NP is no longer there, but preposed]’ (Trechsel
1993: 41). Thus, in the agent-focus antipassive construction, the A is de-
moted to an S in order to participate in pivot combinations. In order for
underlying A arguments of transitive clauses to be questioned, relativized or
focussed, A-role arguments ordinarily must first be made accessible by con-
verting them into S (absolutives) by means of the agent-focus antipassive.
This is described in some detail in this section.
However, in these extraction constructions, though the verb is morpho-
logically intransitive in form, the grammatical relations between A and O do
not typically change, as they do in the passives and the absolutive antipassive.
Though with the agent-focus antipassive the verbs are intransitive morpho-
logically, syntactically they can have two core arguments – this will become
clearer as we go along.9
That is, A-role participants (ergative, transitive sub-
jects) generally cannot be extracted, and therefore the agent-focus antipassive
– which makes underlying A a surface S – is used when A-role arguments are
questioned, relativized or focussed; however, neither the A-role nor the O-
role NP appears in an oblique construction. (Thus, not every instance of an
agent-focus antipassive necessarily results in valency reduction, though most
9
There is some disagreement about whether the agent-focus antipassive is a true antipassive
construction or not. Since in general it has the forms, meanings and functions that correspond
to antipassives found in other languages, it is considered an antipassive. Like other languages’
antipassives, it plays up the role of the agent (A) and eliminates or plays down the role of the
object (O), and it shows up as intransitive in form. The hesitation some have in allowing this
to be considered a ‘true’ antipassive is due to the fact that in these extraction contexts (em-
phatic focus, relative clauses and content questioning of A), only one situation of several in
which it occurs, it appears at times also to be associated with two core arguments, rather than
one, neither of which is oblique or optional. (See Larsen 1987, Hale and Storto forthcoming,
for different opinions.)
252 Lyle Campbell
do.) Larsen and Norman (1979: 360) speak of an accessibility hierarchy for
these extraction rules (WH-questions, relativization, focussing [clefting]): ‘trans-
itive subjects [A] are less accessible . . . than either intransitive subjects [S] or
direct objects [O]’. We look at each of these extraction environments in turn.
3.3.1 Agent-focus antipassive with questions
Generally in WH-questions (content questions), the questioned NP is ‘ex-
tracted’ and placed in preverbal position, and this applies freely to S (as seen
here in (37)) and O (in (38)) with no morphological changes in the verb:
(37) xaQi:n k-Ø-q'ab'ar-ik [S questioned]
who asp-3sg.abs-get.drunk-intr
Who gets drunk? (Mondloch 1979: 176)
(38) (a) xaQi:n U-Ø-u-Q'ay le: aQih [O questioned]
who asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit the man
Whom did the man hit? (Larsen and Norman 1979: 357)
However, an A-role NP normally cannot be questioned in this same way,
as seen in (38b) and (39):
(38) (b) *xaQi:n U-Ø-u-Q'ay le: aQih *[A questioned]
who asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit the man
*Who hit the man? (cf. Larsen and Norman 1979: 357)
(Note that (38b) is grammatical in the meaning ‘whom did the man hit?’, as
seen in (38a).)
(39) *xaQi:n U-in-r-il-oh *[A questioned]
who asp-1sg.abs-3sg.erg-see-tr
*Who saw me? (Mondloch 1979: 176)
When an A-role NP is to be questioned, the questioned NP is preposed, but
also the verb is normally placed in the agent-focus antipassive:
(40) xaQi:n U-Ø-Q'ay-ow le: aQih
who asp-3sg.abs-hit-af.ant the man (cf. Larsen and Norman 1979: 358)
Who hit the man?
(Contrast (40) with (38b).)
(41) xaQi:n U-in-il-ow-ik
who asp-1sg.abs-see-af.ant-intr
Who saw me? (Mondloch 1979: 176)
(Contrast (39).)
K'iche' 253
(42) xaQi:n k-Ø-loq'-ow r-e:Q ri wiLQ
who asp-3sg.abs-buy-af.ant 3sg.poss-gen the chick
Who buys the chicks?10
3.3.2 Agent-focus antipassive with relatives
In K'iche', nearly any argument can be relativized.11
The relative clause fol-
lows its head and is introduced by a relative marker which is in effect the
same as the determiners, le:, ri and we: (though the marker is optional in
some very rare circumstances). Just as with WH-questions, the verb form
undergoes no special changes in relative clauses when an NP in S or O role is
extracted, as in (43) and (44a):
(43) U-Ø-inw-il ri iUoq ri U-Ø-q'ab'ar-ik [S relativized]
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-see the woman rel asp-3sg.abs-get.drunk-intr
I saw the woman who got drunk
10
In some WH-questions where the agent-focus antipassive is normally required, it is sometimes
not used if no ambiguity would result; for example, both (1) and (2) are possible:
(1) xaQi:n U-at-u-Q'ay-oh
who asp-2sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit-tr
Who hit you?
(2) xaQi:n U-at-Q'ay-ow-ik
who asp-2sg.abs-hit-af.ant-intr
Who hit you? (Larsen 1987)
(This varies across dialects; other similar examples are discussed later in the chapter.)
11
The only NP that seems inaccessible to relativization is the A NP in a ‘by’ phrase of the
simple passive, as in the following, neither of which is grammatical:
(1) *le: axkun le: U-Ø-kuna-U ri ala r-uma:l
the curer rel asp-3sg.abs-cure-pass the child 3sg.poss-by
*the doctor that the child was cured by . . . (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 534)
(2) *le: axkun le: U-Ø-kuna-U ri ala
the curer rel asp-3sg.abs-cure-pass the child
*the doctor that the child was cured by . . . (cf. Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 534)
The S (underlying O-role NP), however, can be relativized in such passive constructions, as
in (3):
(3) ri ala ri U-Ø-kuna-U r-uma:l le: axkun
the child rel asp-3sg.abs-cure-pass 3sg.poss-by the curer
The child who was cured by the doctor (cf. Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 534)
It is possible that this restriction on relativization of the NP from the ‘by’-phrase of passives
has to do with the function of passive versus relativization. A function of the passive is to play
down the underlying A and to emphasize the underlying O, whereas, in K'iche', relativization
emphasizes an NP; to relativize the A-role NP of the oblique ‘by’-phrase of the passive would
highlight that NP, seemingly conflicting with the passive’s demotion of that same element.
The two processes, relativization and passivization, would seem to have opposite purposes to
one another.
254 Lyle Campbell
(44) (a) U-Ø-inw-il le: iUoq le: U-Ø-u-Q'ay
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-see the woman rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit
le: aQih [O relativized]
the man
I saw the woman whom the man hit (Larsen and Norman 1979: 357)12
However, when an A-role NP is relativized, this same construction, with a
regular transitive verb, is not normally possible. Davies and Sam-Colop (1990:
534) report that ‘ergative arguments [As] that never bear the absolutive rela-
tion [i.e. that do not go through a demotion to S, absolutive case] cannot be
relativized in K'iche'’. They offer the ‘functional perspective’ that relates to
our pivot (see below): that ‘the agentive [agent-focus] antipassive makes the
agent accessible to relativization (and extraction in general) by making it an
absolutive’. Some examples showing these relations are:
(44) (b) *U-Ø-inw-il le: iUoq le: U-Ø-u-Q'ay
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-see the woman rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit
le: aQih *[A relativized]
the man
*I saw the woman who hit the man (cf. Larsen and Norman 1979: 357)
(Note that (44b) is grammatical in the meaning ‘I saw the woman whom the
man hit’, as in (44a).) When an A-role NP is extracted in a relative clause, the
agent-focus antipassive construction is used:
(44) (c) U-Ø-inw-il le: iUoq le: U-Ø-Q'ay-ow le: aQih
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-see the woman rel asp-3sg.abs-hit-af.ant the man
I saw the woman who hit the man (cf. Larsen and Norman 1979: 358)
(45) U-Ø-q-il le: iUoq le: U-Ø-q'oL-(o)w
asp-3sg.abs-1pl.erg-see the woman rel asp-3sg.abs-embroider-af.ant
le: a-poLt
the 2sg.poss-huipil
We saw the woman who embroidered your huipil (native blouse)13
12
No sexism is intended by the repetition of these examples involving women and men and
hitting – these examples were presented before non-sexist guidelines were prepared and are
repeated here only because they are now part of the history of argumentation in Mayan
linguistics.
13
This formation extends also to existential clauses, which have no overt relative marker (note
that the relative marker is sometimes optional in other cases):
(1) Ø-k'o: k-Ø-b'an-ow le: Qa:k
3sg.abs-there.is asp-3sg.abs-do-af.ant the work
There is someone who will do the work
(2) e:-k'o: k-e:-kuna-n le: yawa:b'
3pl.abs-there.is asp-3pl.abs-cure-af.ant the sick.one
There are those who will cure the sick (person)
K'iche' 255
In fact, the constraint against extracted As (which are not demoted to S
in an agent-focus antipassive construction) is general, but not absolutely
required all the time in all the dialects. Some speakers accept sentences such
as (46) (Trechsel 1993: 75):
(46) U-Ø-pe: ri iUoq ri U-Ø-u-pil
asp-3sg.abs-come the woman rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-butcher
ri ak' [A relativized]
the chicken
The woman who butchered the chicken came
In (46), the verb -pil is a regular transitive, not the expected -pil-ow agent-
focus antipassive; in this case, while the head NP (ri izoq ‘the woman’) plays
the role of A in the relative clause, rather than the O role that would be
expected with the fully active transitive verb form, the semantics make the
expected reading, ‘the woman whom the chicken butchered’, highly unlikely
(Mondloch 1978b, Trechsel 1993: 75). The example in (47) is even clearer
(Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993: 136):
(47) ri ts'iL ri U-Ø-u-tix ri tiLi:x
the dog rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-eat the meat
U-Ø-r-oqata:-x ri meLs [A relativized]
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-chase-tr the cat
The dog that ate the meat chased the cat
Since the meat cannot eat the dog, even though the sentence is in the
regular active transitive form with an A as head of the relative clause, the
agent-focus antipassive is not absolutely required in this instance. Neverthe-
less, speakers who accept (46) and (47) as grammatical also accept sentences
which they do find ambiguous, such as the following:
(48) xaQi:n U-Ø-r-il ri aQih
who asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-see the man (Trechsel 1993: 75)
(1) Whom did the man see?
(2) Who saw the man?
(49) U-Ø-q-il le: ak'al le: U-Ø-r-oqata:-x
asp-3sg.abs-1pl.erg-see the child rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-chase-tr
le: ts'iL
the dog
(1) We saw the child who chased the dog [A relativized]
(2) We saw the child whom the dog chased [O relativized] (Trechsel
1993: 75)
256 Lyle Campbell
(50) (a) k-Ø-tseLn ri ala ri U-Ø-u-ts'uma:-x ri ali
asp-3sg.abs-smile the boy rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-kiss-tr the girl
(1) The boy who kissed the girl smiles [A relativized!]
(2) The boy whom the girl kissed smiles [O relativized] (Sam-Colop
1988: 44)
To avoid the ambiguity of (50a), it is normally put in the agent-focus
antipassive, as in (50b), where the second reading is now impossible:
(50) (b) *k-Ø-tseLn ri ala ri U-Ø-ts'uma-n ri ali
asp-3sg.abs-smile the boy rel asp-3sg.abs-kiss-af.ant the girl
(1) The boy who kissed the girl smiles [S relativized]
*(2) The boy whom the girl kisses smiles *[O relativized] (Sam-Colop
1988: 45)
3.3.3 Focus function
The focus (cleft) construction is similar to WH-questions and relativization
in that in it an underlying A-role argument is taken from its normal neutral
position after the verb and preposed, and the verb is placed in the agent-focus
antipassive form. Sentences (51–2) show focussed S and O, which require no
change in the verb:
(51) are: ri aQih U-Ø-q'abar-ik [S focussed]
foc the man asp-3sg.abs-get.drunk-intr
It was the man who got drunk
(52) are: le: iUoq U-Ø-u-Q'ay le: aQih [O focussed]
foc the woman asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit the man
It was the woman that the man hit (Larsen and Norman 1979: 357)
In fact in K'iche' virtually any constituent in the sentence can be focussed
(preposed before the verb) in this construction (with the exception of the
demoted agent of a passive, see below). However, A cannot be focussed in
exactly the same way, as seen in the ungrammaticality of (53a) (Larsen and
Norman 1979: 357):
(53) (a) *are: le: aQih U-Ø-u-Q'ay le: iUoq [A focussed]
foc the man asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit the woman
*It was the man that hit the woman
Rather, the verb must be put in the agent-focus antipassive construction in
order for an A-role NP to be focussed (clefted) in this way:
(53) (b) are: le: aQih U-Ø-Q'ay-ow le: iUoq [A focussed]
foc the man asp-3sg.abs-hit-af.ant the woman
It was the man that hit the woman (Larsen and Norman 1979: 358)
K'iche' 257
(54) (a) la at U-at-kuna-n le: axkun
q 2sg.indep.pn asp-2sg.abs-cure-af.ant the curer
Was it you who cured the doctor? (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 523)
(b) la are: le: axkun U-at-kuna-n-ik
q foc the curer asp-2sg.abs-cure-af.ant-intr
Was it the doctor who cured you? (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 523)
3.3.4 Syntax
In the agent-focus antipassive construction, the A (underlying transitive sub-
ject) is first demoted to an S (intransitive subject, absolutive) in order to
participate in pivot combinations. In order to question, relativize or focus
underlying A arguments of transitive clauses, A-role arguments ordinarily
must first be made accessible by being converted into S (absolutives) by
means of the agent-focus antipassive. Thus, while on the whole K'iche' is
morphologically ergative and most of its syntactic rules are not sensitive to
ergativity, we could say that to some degree K'iche' has syntactic ergativity
(Mondloch 1979: 58). As Larsen (1987: 44) put it:
one could claim that Quiché is syntactically ergative by Dixon’s criteria.
The syntactic rules which form wh-questions, relative clauses, and cleft
constructions operate in a straightforward way on S and O, but not on A. In
order for such rules to apply to A, a NP in underlying A function must first
be put into derived S function by means of the [agent-]focus antipassive
. . . Thus, it appears that these rules operate on an S/O pivot in Quiché.
A main function of the agent-focus antipassive in these extraction construc-
tions is to convert an underlying A-role NP into a derived S so that it will be
accessible for rules which operate only on S and O. In the case of questions,
the WH-constituent appears in preverbal position, the focus position, rather
than postverbally which is the typical location of non-questioned/non-focussed
NPs. The same is true of the relative clauses and the focus construction
(clefts – by definition in the case of the clefts).
3.3.5 Disambiguating function
Since -in- ‘1sg’, lah ‘2sg.rev’ and alaq ‘2pl.rev’ are the same (do not have
distinct markers) in both ergative and absolutive environments, ambiguities
involving combinations of these as participants could arise, but such com-
binations are avoided (as mentioned in §2.1.2). For example, kinkunax lah is
ambiguous, meaning either ‘I cure you’ or ‘you cure me’. The structure of the
two is as follows, where -X- is not intended as either an absolutive or an
ergative morpheme, but is employed only to show where such a morpheme
would be expected if some other person bearing overt marking were involved.
258 Lyle Campbell
(55) (a) k-X-in-kuna-x lah
asp-X.abs-1sg.erg-cure-tr 2sg.rev.abs
I cure you
(b) k-in-X-kuna-x lah
asp-1sg.abs-X.erg-cure-tr 2sg.rev.erg
You cure me
In such instances, if context is unable to disambiguate the sentence, it will
be put into another voice, as in (56a) and (56b), where the unambiguous
equivalents of (55a) and (55b) are shown in the focussed construction with
the agent-focus antipassive:
(56) (a) in k-in-kuna-n lah
1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-cure-af.ant 2sg.rev
It is I who cure you / I myself cure you / I am the one who cures you
(b) la:l k-in-kuna-n lah
2sg.rev.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-cure-af.ant 2sg.rev
It is you who cure me / You yourself cure me / You are the one who cures
me
3.3.6 Difficulties for formal theorists
A major problem for some formal theories is encountered in two aspects of
the agent-focus antipassive. These complications have been addressed, always
with discomfort, in the following theoretical orientations: categorial gram-
mar by Trechsel (1982); government and binding by Hale and Storto
(forthcoming) and Larsen 1987; hpsg by Trechsel (1993); and relational
grammar by Davies and Sam-Colop (1990) and Sam-Colop (1988). The first
complication stems from the fact that the agent-focus antipassive construc-
tion, though it appears morphologically to be intransitive, in certain circum-
stances behaves syntactically as if it were a transitive clause. ‘It is this apparent
“mismatch” between the morphological intransitivity of these verb forms and
their syntactic and semantic transitivity that presents the most interesting
and difficult challenges to linguistic theory’ (Trechsel 1993: 33–4). That is,
sometimes the clause has both an A (agent) and an O (direct object) as core
arguments, even though only one is signalled in the cross-referencing affixes
on the verb (an absolutive prefix). Linguists have disagreed over whether
these agent-focus antipassive forms are to be considered intransitive or trans-
itive constructions (see Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 530–1 for a survey of
some of the opinions found in the literature).
Let me hasten to add here that, in pointing out the difficulties caused for
treatments in various formal approaches by the K'iche' facts discussed in this
K'iche' 259
section, I by no means imply any anti-theoretical bias. Just the opposite: it is
facts such as these which drive us to formulate more adequate theories which
should help to explain both these facts and others of a similar nature that may
show up in other languages.
The problem of a verb marked morphologically as intransitive sometimes
syntactically bearing two core arguments is compounded by the second ser-
ious complication. The single pronominal affix (always absolutive) sometimes
cross-references the A-role NP and sometimes the O-role NP: ‘These verbs
exhibit an unusual pattern of agreement. In some instances, they agree with
the agent; in others, they agree with the patient [O]’ (Trechsel 1993: 33).
Davies and Sam-Colop (1990: 523) call this ‘nonregular agreement in K'iche'’.
A major issue in theoretical treatments of K'iche' is what determines which
of the two arguments – A or O – will be cross-referenced by the single
absolutive affix permitted in the agent-focus antipassive verbs (see below).
It is generally acknowledged that ‘the agreement cannot be accounted for
simply by the general agreement rules . . . that are at work elsewhere in the
language’ (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 531; see Mondloch 1979: 319–20).
Norman and Campbell (1978) presented a hierarchy for the treatment of these
antipassive ‘nonregular agreements’ found in several Mayan languages:
The verb which appears in the antipassive construction must by definition
be intransitive. For Mayan languages, this entails that only one NP may be
cross-referenced on the verb, the other NP remaining as a prepositional
[oblique] phrase or a constituent which has no grammatical relation in the
clause (a chômeur, in the terminology of relational grammar). Again, from
the definition of antipassive one would expect that the verb would be marked
for agreement with the NP which represented the deep syntactic [under-
lying] subject (the formerly ergative NP).
This does not always turn out to be the case in Mayan . . . In languages
such as Quiche, which permit one of the NPs in the antipassive to be non-
third person, the rules of verb–subject agreement are quite complex . . . :
[1] Are: ri in U-in-Q'ay-ow le: aQih
foc the 1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-hit-af.ant the man
I hit the man / It was me that hit the man
[2] Are: ri aQih U-in-Q'ay-ow-ik
foc the man asp-1sg.abs-hit-af.ant-intr
The man hit me / That’s the man who hit me
In both [1] and [2], the verb agrees with the first person constituent, even
though that constituent represents an underlying subject [A] in [1] but an
underlying object [O] in [2]. In the Quiche antipassive, verb agreement is
controlled not by syntactic relations of NPs but by their position on the
260 Lyle Campbell
hierarchy: non-third person > third person plural > third person singular,
with special provisions for the second person formal pronoun, which be-
haves like third person in this case.
To account for the details of K'iche' (rather than Mayan languages gener-
ally), this statement needs to be slightly more specific: at least one of the
participants must be either a 3rd person (-Ø-) or a 2nd person reverential (lah,
alaq, which take no overt cross-referencing affix) – that is, two overtly marked
(non-null) pronominal affixes (i.e. combinations of 1st person (sg or pl) and
2nd non-reverential person (sg or pl) forms) are not permitted to co-occur
in this construction. As Mondloch (1978a: 71) puts it, with agent-focus
antipassive:
at least subject [A] or object [O] must be a third person (singular or plural)
or lal [la:l] or alak [alaq]. In the event that both subject and object are other
than third person or other than lal [la:l] or alak [alaq], then this voice
cannot be used for emphasizing the subject. [Emphasis in the original.]
Compare the following pairs of agent-focus antipassive sentences, where
in the (a) sentences the A-role argument is cross-referenced by the absolutive
prefix in the verb, but in the (b) sentences it is the O-role which is cross-
referenced:
(57) (a) at U-at-riq-ow le: ak'al-a:b' [-at- = A]
2sg.indep.pn asp-2sg.abs-find-af.ant the child-pl
You found the children / It was you who found the children (Davies and
Sam-Colop 1990: 531)
(b) e: are: le: ak'al-a:b' U-at-riq-ow at [-at- = O]
pl foc the child-PL asp-2sg.abs-find-af.ant 2sg.indep.pn
It was the children who found you (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 531)
(58) (a) ri ak'al-a:b' U-e:-tsuqu-w ri a luL [-e:- = A]
the child-pl asp-3pl.abs-feed-af.ant the hon Peter
The children fed Peter / It was the children who fed Peter (cf. Davies and
Sam-Colop 1990: 531)
(b) ri a luL U-e:-tsuqu-w ri ak'al-a:b' [-e:- = O]
the hon Peter asp-3pl.abs-feed-af.ant the child-pl
Peter fed the children / It was Peter who fed the children
(cf. Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 531)
These examples, (57a–58b), illustrate Norman and Campbell’s (1978: 150)
hierarchy. They propose that the usual K'iche' agreement rule is suspended in
K'iche' 261
this construction: ‘verb agreement is controlled not by syntactic relations
of NPs but by their position on the [participant] hierarchy’ (Davies and
Sam-Colop 1990: 524). Larsen (1987: 44) characterizes this as: ‘There is a
restriction on the focus antipassive construction such that (roughly) either the
underlying A or the underlying O or both must be third person.’ The following
pair of sentences contrasts the focus construction with agent-focus antipassive
(in (59a)) with the active transitive counterpart (in (59b)):
(59) (a) are: le: w-a:ts U-in-toL-ow-ik
foc the my-elder.brother asp-1sg.abs-help-af.ant-intr
It was my elder brother who helped me
(b) U-in-u-toL le: w-a:ts
asp-1sg.abs-3sg.erg-help the my-elder.brother
My elder brother helped me
This constraint against cross-referencing two non-null arguments (1st or
2nd non-reverential forms) comes into question only in the focus (cleft) con-
struction, since all the WH-question words are 3rd person and the nouns
modified by relative clauses in K'iche' are also 3rd person. In principle it
would logically be possible to violate the constraint in the focus construction,
which can have two arguments, both non-3rd persons (and non-2nd person
reverentials), but this is avoided either by utilizing active voice (with trans-
itive morphology), as in (60a), or by placing the O-role NP in an oblique
phrase, as in (60b–61):
(60) (a) in U-at-in-Q'ay-oh
1sg.indep.pn asp-2sg.abs-1sg.erg-hit-tr
I am the one who hit you (Trechsel 1993: 47)
(b) in U-in-Q'ay-ow aw-e:h
1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-hit-af.ant 2sg.poss-gen
I am the one who hit you (Trechsel 1993: 47)
(61) are: U-Ø-elaq'a-n q-e:h
foc asp-3sg.abs-steal-af.ant 1pl.poss-gen
He is the one who robbed us (Trechsel 1993: 48)14
14
Works on K'iche' focus nearly all contain a note pointing out that examples such as this, with
both the agent-focus antipassive morphology and the oblique O, are not found in all K'iche'
dialects; they are found in Nahualá, however, the dialect area represented in Mondloch’s
works, and since Nahualá is a central and typical dialect and because most scholars rely
heavily on Mondloch’s discussion of these phenomena in K'iche', the literature generally
reports these then as relatively unproblematic.
262 Lyle Campbell
In (60b) the possessed relative noun aw-e:h is formally now a 3rd person
(in structure a noun), and thus this sentence does not violate the constraint
against two non-3rd or non-2nd reverential person NPs, so that the agent-
focus antipassive typically used with focus (cleft) is possible (cf. Trechsel
1993: 47).
Ultimately, in spite of the difficulties for various theories which some
syntacticians have expressed over the fact that it is sometimes the A-role NP
and other times the O-role NP which is cross-referenced by the single
absolutive affix in the agent-focus antipassive construction, there is, neverthe-
less, usually no problem of interpretation because the A-role NP is focussed
(clefted) and preposed before the verb (cf. Dayley 1981: 26, 56). That is, we
should not lose sight of the help in processing these sentences which this
special non-neutral constituent order provides us with in this case. In fact,
Dayley, speaking of Mayan languages in general, sees the use of the agent-focus
antipassive morphology as specifically fulfilling the role of disambiguating
topicalized sentences which have both an A and an O (Dayley 1981: 56):
if the normal order is V A P [VAO] (or V P A [VOA], for that matter),
when one of the NPs is fronted via topicalization[,] the result is NP V NP,
and therefore it may not be clear which NP, the agent or the patient [O], has
been fronted. The [agent-]focus antipassive may be used to disambiguate in
this situation because it explicitly indicates that the NP immediately preced-
ing the verb is the agent.15
Given the possibility of two core arguments, A and O, but only one cross-
referencing affix (which can sometimes refer to the A argument and some-
times to the O argument in these agent-focus antipassive sentences), it is
very important to be able to determine which person-cross-referencing affix
will occur and which argument (A or O) it will signal. Which one will occur
is easy: whichever of the arguments, A or O, has a non-null absolutive form
(not -Ø-) is the one which will be cross-referenced in the verb. The combina-
tions permitted are shown in figure 7.2.
15
Trechsel’s (1982, 1993) approach to the problem begins with the assumption that transitive
sentences in K'iche' assign the patient role to subjects [A] and the agent role to objects [O],
‘analyzing absolutive NPs as “subjects” and ergative NPs as “objects”’ (1993: 62) (though
Trechsel does not insist on this ‘inverse’ analysis; p. 64). He asserts that ‘there is absolutely
no reason, other than prejudice and/or convention, to assume that natural languages always
and everywhere assign the agent [A] and patient [O] roles in transitive sentences to the subject
and object NP, respectively’ (p. 64). In spite of the arguments he presents in support of this
position, I do not accept it but also do not attempt to present counterarguments, since the
typological perspective which maintains a constant A–[Transitive]Subject and O–Object asso-
ciation cross-linguistically – as articulated, for example, by Dixon (1994) and many others
– is thoroughly convincing.
K'iche' 263
Figure 7.2. Permitted A–O combinations in agent-focus antipassive verbs
A O
1sg/pl (-in-/-ux-) 2rev.sg/pl (-Ø-/-Ø-)
3sg/pl (-Ø-/-Ø-)
2sg (-at-) 3sg/pl (-Ø-/-Ø-)
2.rev.sg/pl (-Ø-) 1sg/pl (-in-/-ux-)
3sg/pl (-Ø-/-e:-)
3sg/pl (-Ø-/-Ø-(-e:-)) 1sg/pl (-in-/-ux-)
2sg/pl (-at-/-iz-)
2rev.sg/pl (-Ø-/-Ø-)
3sg/pl (-Ø-/-Ø-(-e:-))
As seen from figure 7.2, A–O combinations of 1sg/pl and 2sg/pl (non-
reverential) are excluded. The constraint against two persons with non-null
cross-referencing affixes in the focus construction is not an insurmountable
problem. If an A is to be extracted for emphasis in an instance where any of
these combinations would occur, the active transitive verb forms (and not the
agent-focus antipassive) are used, as illustrated in:
(62) are: ri at U-in-a:-Q'ay-oh
foc the 2sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-2sg.erg-hit-tr
You were the one who hit me (Larsen 1987: 44)
(63) in k-at-in-toL-oh
1sg.indep.pn asp-2sg.abs-1sg.erg-help-tr
I myself will help you
In an A-extraction clause, in order to maintain this constraint against the
simultaneous occurrence of two non-Ø pronominal affixes, if a 3rd person plural
occurs either as A or O (where -e:- ‘3pl.abs’ would normally be expected in
the agent-focus antipassive) in combination with any other non-Ø pronominal
affix (anything other than 3sg or 2nd Reverential (singular or plural)), then
-Ø- is used instead. Examples (64a–c) show -e:- 3pl.abs where there is no
clash which would lead to the suppression of the plural pronominal affix:
(64) (a) are: U-e:-riq-ow-ik
foc asp-3pl.abs-find-af.ant-intr
He is the one who found them
(b) e: are: U-e:-riq-ow ri ak'a:l
pl foc asp-3pl.abs-find-af.ant the child
They are the ones who found the child
(c) e: are: U-e:-riq-ow ri ak'al-a:b'
pl foc asp-3pl.abs-find-af.ant the children
They are the ones who found the children
264 Lyle Campbell
The following pair of sentences shows the ordinary presence of 3rd person
plural -e:- (in (65a)) contrasted with 3rd person singular -Ø- for agreement
with the extracted 3rd person singular A NP (in (65b)) (Sam-Colop 1988: 65):
(65) (a) are: le: ts'iL (le:) U-e:-riq-ow le: Qix
foc the dog (rel) asp-3pl.abs-find-af.ant the sheep
It was the dog that found the sheep (plural)
(b) are: le: ts'iL (le:) U-Ø-riq-ow le: Qix
foc the dog (rel) asp-3sg.abs-find-af.ant the sheep
It was the dog that found the sheep (singular)
In contrast to these sentences, (66) illustrates an instance in which the 3rd
person plural pronominal affix is suppressed, overridden by the presence of
another argument represented by a non-null non-3rd person affix:
(66) in U-in-riq-ow ri ak'al-a:b'
1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-find-af.ant the child-pl
I am the one who found the children
In (66), the plurality of the O-role argument is not marked in the verb. Since
the A-role argument is a non-3rd person singular, the O argument (though
underlyingly plural, so that e:- would be expected) is treated morphologic-
ally as though it were a 3sg.abs marker (i.e. -Ø-) (Mondloch 1979: 322).
Since the 2nd person reverential forms (lah and alaq) are not cross-
referenced by prefixes in the verb, the problem of two non-Ø pronominal
markers with the agent-focus antipassive does not arise with the reverential
forms. Therefore, the 2nd person reverentials can occur as A or O in combina-
tions with any 1st or 3rd person form, as seen in the following examples:
(67) in U-in-Q'a:b'e-n alaq
1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-speak-af.ant 2pl.rev
I am the one who talked to you
(68) la:l U-e:-kuna-n lah
2sg.rev.indep.pn asp-3pl.abs-cure-af.ant 2sg.rev
You are the one who cured them
(69) alaq U-ux-toL-(o)w alaq
2pl.rev.indep.pn asp-1pl.abs-help-af.ant 2pl.rev
You are the ones who helped us
3.3.7 O-demotion to oblique with agent-focus antipassive
There is one further construction which employs the agent-focus antipassive.
In this one, the verb bears the agent-focus antipassive morphology (and is
K'iche' 265
thus intransitive) and cross-references only one argument – the underlying A
in this case – with the absolutive verb prefixes, but differs from the extraction
constructions above in that the underlying O is demoted to an oblique with
the relational noun -e:h/-e:P ‘genitive/possessive’,16
as in the following pairs
of sentences, where the (a) example is basic and the (b) member of the pair is
derived, illustrating the demoted oblique O:
(70) (a) U-Ø-u-Qoy ri Qe:L ri axQa:k pa ri k'iQeLla:x [Basic]
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cut the tree the worker in the forest
The worker cut the tree in the forest (Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993)
(b) are: ri axQa:k ri U-Ø-Qoy-ow r-e:Q ri Qe:L
foc the worker rel asp-3sg.abs-cut-af.ant 3sg-poss.gen the tree
pa ri k'iQeLla:x [Derived]
in the forest
It was the worker who cut the tree in the forest
(71) (a) k-e:b'-u-loq' ri wiLQ ri w-ika:q' [Basic]
asp-3pl.abs-3sg.erg-buy the chick the my-nephew
My nephew buys the chicks (Nik’te’ and Saqijix 1993)
(b) are: ri w-ika:q' k-Ø-loq'-ow r-e:Q ri
foc the my-nephew asp-3sg.abs-buy-af.ant 3sg.poss-gen the
wiLQ [Derived]
chick
It is my nephew who buys the chicks17
16
Mayanists typically call this relational noun the ‘genitive’, since it is used for possession, w-
e:P ‘(it is) mine’, r-e:P ‘(it is) his/hers/its’, but it also has the semantic functions of ‘dative’,
‘source’, ‘instrument’ and some other non-core argument notions (cf. Sam-Colop 1988: 18). It
is composed of the relational noun root -e:h or -e:P, which are free variants, with no difference
in meaning or privilege of occurrence. Etymologically, -e:h comes from the noun root mean-
ing ‘tooth’ and is used to mean ‘to, at’. The locative use usually occurs in the compound form,
P(i) ‘to, at, on, in, for’ (from the noun root meaning ‘mouth’), + possessive pronominal
prefixes + -e:h/-e:P, as in Pi-k-e:h ‘to/for them’, P-w-e:h ‘to/for me’. In the 3rd person
singular, P-r-e:h alternates with P-e:h, though the latter is more frequent. Not all valency-
derivation constructions which utilize the possessed -e:h/-e:P without the preceding com-
pounding Pi are ‘genitive’/‘possessive’ in nature, as seen where it functions to signal oblique
NP roles; nevertheless, I continue to translate these as ‘genitive’ (gen), following the tradition
in the literature.
17
There is some variation across K'iche' dialects concerning the general acceptability of this
agent-focus antipassive with underlying O demoted to an oblique phrase (see Davies and
Sam-Colop 1990: 539).
Also, in some dialects this construction offers another way around the constraint against
two non-null pronominal affixes (3rd person or 2nd person reverential forms) with the agent-
focus antipassive, where the O-role argument can be demoted to an oblique, though this
option is not normally possible in these extractions with other persons:
(1) in U-in-Q'ay-ow aw-e:h
1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-hit-af.ant 2sg.poss-gen
I am the one who hit you
266 Lyle Campbell
3.4 ‘Absolutive’ antipassive
The second antipassive is traditionally called the ‘absolutive antipassive’ (see
Smith-Stark 1978). It has the form -n with dtvs and -on with rtvs (or
predictable allomorphs: -un if the vowel of the verb root is u; -an if the root’s
vowel is a). With the absolutive antipassive, unlike in the agent-focus anti-
passives, the single pronoun, S (absolutive), cross-references the underlying
A of an intransitivized verb form, and the underlying O is either demoted to
an oblique construction or is omitted. On the whole, it is much more straight-
forward than the agent-focus antipassive. For example, in (72a) and (72b) the
demoted O NP has been omitted, while it is present, but demoted to an
oblique phrase, in (73a):
(72) (a) uts k-at-b'iUa-n
good asp-2sg.abs-sing-abs.ant
You sing well
(b) k-Ø-mes-on Q-qa-naqa:x
asp-3sg.abs-sweep-abs.ant to-1pl.poss-near
She sweeps near us (Trechsel 1982: 60)
(73) (a) k-at-yoq'-on Q-e:h ri a-na:n
asp-2sg.abs-mock-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-gen the your-mother
You mock your mother
(Footnote 17 continued)
(2) iU U-iU-il-ow q-e:h
2pl.indep.pn asp-2pl.abs-see-af.ant 1pl.poss-gen
You are the ones who saw us (Mondloch 1979: 323–8)
The agent-focus antipassive also serves to signal what has been called (inappropriately)
‘noun incorporation’ in K'iche'. An antipassive construction is employed with noun incor-
poration in many languages, understandably so, since the antipassive characteristically signals
that the verb is formally intransitive (see Mithun 1984). However, the cases which have been
called ‘noun incorporation’ in K'iche' are odd in two ways. (a) They do not actually incorpor-
ate a noun into a verb, but rather bear an independent word, albeit a bare nominalization
juxtaposed to the verb. (b) They are much more limited than those reported in other lan-
guages, even in other Mayan languages such as Yucatec: they are limited essentially to an
‘incorporated’ nominalization with a few semantically ‘light’ verbs, like ‘do, make’, as in (3),
where, in this interpretation, the nominalization P'ax-oqn ‘washing’ is ‘incorporated’ in the
verb k-Ø-b'an-ow ‘do’:
(3) xun q'i:x k-Ø-b'an-ow Q'ax-oLn le: a-na:n
one day asp-3sg.abs-do-af.ant wash-nomzr the 2sg.poss-mother
Your mother (clothes)washes all day long (lit. all day your mother does washing)
As seen above, an agent-focus antipassive verb in the focus construction is intransitive in
form but can have two core arguments associated with it, so that in this case, the so-called
incorporation of the nominalization fits this construction in K'iche'. Morever, since the NP in
O role in the focus construction need not be non-referential (as the objects incorporated in
noun-incorporation constructions in general must be; see Mithun 1984), it is not possible to
solve the vexing problem of the two core arguments with an intransitively marked verb
through any general appeal to noun-incorporation.
K'iche' 267
The active counterpart of (73a) is (73b):
(b) k-Ø-a-yoq' ri a-na:n
asp-3sg.abs-2sgerg-mock the your-mother
You mock your mother
In (73a), underlying O has been demoted to an oblique dative construction,
P-e:h ri a-na:n, the verb is intransitivized, and the underlying A is cross-
referenced on the verb by an absolutive affix, -at- ‘2sg.abs’.
The meaning of the regular active transitive and the absolutive antipassive
with underlying O in an oblique construction, while basically the same, is felt
to be different by native speakers, with reduced transitivity for the later.
Consider the following pair of sentences:
(74) (a) U-Ø-u-Q'ay ri a luL ri a Uwa:n
asp-1sg.abs-3sg.erg-hit the hon Peter the hon John
John hit Peter
(b) ri a Uwa:n U-Ø-Q'ay-on Q-e:h ri a luL
the hon John asp-3sg.abs-hit-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to the hon Peter
John hit Peter
Some speakers prefer to translate (74b) as ‘John was fighting with Peter’ to
show less direct effect by the agent on the derived demoted O – that is, to
reflect its lessened transitivity (cf. Larsen 1987).
Unlike the agent-focus antipassive (where sometimes the single absolutive
prefix in the verb cross-references either the A-role or the O-role argument),
with the absolutive antipassive the single absolutive prefix always unambigu-
ously marks S, the absolutive subject of the intransitivized clause, as in:
(75) U-ux-tsix-on iw-u:k'
asp-1pl.abs-talk-abs.ant 2pl.poss-with
We spoke with you
(76) k-e:-q'oxoma-n le: ala-b'o:m
asp-3pl.abs-play.music-abs.ant the boy-pl
The boys play (a musical instrument)
Unlike the agent-focus antipassive which in effect can have two core argu-
ments, neither of which need visibly be relegated to an oblique phrase, the
absolutive antipassive construction can have an underlying O-role NP present
only if it is demoted to an oblique. Contrast the following pairs of equivalent
sentences, containing agent-focus antipassives (the (a) examples) and absolutive
antipassive sentences (the (b) examples), which are contrasted below with
ungrammatical counterparts in (77c) and (77d) (Sam-Colop 1988: 95):
268 Lyle Campbell
(77) (a) le: axQak-i:b' k-e:-tik-ow le: ab'i:U
the worker-pl asp-3pl.abs-plant-af.ant the cornfield
The workers plant the cornfield
(b) le: axQak-i:b' U-e:-tik-on Q-e:h le: ab'i:U
the worker-pl asp-3pl.abs-plant-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to the cornfield
The workers planted the cornfield
(78) (a) le: axQak-i:b' U-e:-toL-(o)w le: ala
the worker-pl asp-3pl.abs-help-af.ant the boy
The workers helped the boy
(b) le: axQak-i:b' U-e:-toLb'-an Q-e:h le: ala
the worker-pl asp-3pl.abs-help-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to the boy
The workers helped the boy
Note that (77c), agent-focus antipassive with the underlying O in an oblique
phrase, and (77d), absolutive antipassive where the underlying O is not in an
oblique phrase, are both unacceptable, at least in the major dialects:
(77) (c) *le: axQak-i:b' U-e:-toL-(o)w Q-e:h le: ala
the worker-pl asp-3pl.abs-help-af.ant to.3sg.poss-to the boy
*The workers helped the boy
(d) *le: axQak-i:b' U-e:-toLb'-an le: ala
the worker-pl asp-3pl.abs-help-abs.ant the boy
*The workers helped the boy
Moreover, in the absolutive antipassive, the oblique phrase (in the rela-
tional noun) can optionally be omitted (as in (79a)), but only when it involves
a 3rd person singular; compare the following sentences, both of which are
grammatical, although the oblique phrase would have been expected also
in (79a):
(79) (a) xaQi:n U-Ø-Qap-an le: ts'unun
who asp-3sg.abs-capture-abs.ant the hummingbird
Who caught the hummingbird?
(b) xaQi:n U-Ø-Qap-an Q-e:h le: ts'unun
who asp-3sg.abs-capture-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to the hummingbird
Who caught the hummingbird? (Sam-Colop 1988: 98)
Compare these with the corresponding agent-focus antipassive sentences, where
the presence of the oblique makes the sentence (80b) ungrammatical (Sam-
Colop 1988: 97, 98):
(80) (a) xaQi:n U-Ø-Qap-ow le: ts'unun
who asp-3sg.abs-capture-af.ant the hummingbird
Who caught the hummingbird?
K'iche' 269
(b) *xaQi:n U-Ø-Qap-ow Q-e:h le: ts'unun
who asp-3sg.abs-capture-af.ant to.3sg.poss-to the hummingbird
*Who caught the hummingbird?
Absolutive antipassive sentences with 3rd person plurals which lack the
oblique are not fully grammatical, though sometimes tolerated by some
speakers (as in (81a)), contrasted with grammatical (81b). These are con-
trasted with the agent-focus antipassive in (81c) and (81d), where (81d) shows
the ungrammaticality with the dative oblique:
(81) (a) ?xaQi:n U-Ø-Qap-an le: ak'al-a:b'
who asp-3sg.abs-capture-abs.ant the boy-pl
Who caught the boys? (Sam-Colop 1988: 98)
(b) xaQi:n U-Ø-Qap-an Qi-k-e:h le: ak'al-a:b'
who asp-3sg.abs-capture-abs.ant to-3pl.poss-to the boy-pl
Who caught the boys? (Sam-Colop 1988: 98)
(c) xaQi:n U-e:-Qap-ow le: ak'al-a:b'
who asp-3pl.abs-capture-af.ant the boy-pl
Who caught the boys? (Sam-Colop 1988: 98)
(d) *xaQi:n U-e:-Qap-ow Qi-k-e:h le: ak'al-a:b'
who asp-3pl.abs-capture-af.ant to-3pl.poss-to the boy-pl
Who caught the boys? (Sam-Colop 1988: 98)
3.4.1 Functions
The absolutive antipassive has several functions. One is ‘to delete or demote
an indefinite, obvious, or insignificant transitive object [underlying O] . . . A
speaker at times . . . chooses to use the absolutive [antipassive] rather than the
active [transitive] voice because he does not consider the direct object as
important as the action and the subject/agent who performs it’ (Mondloch
1979: 275). Some additional examples of absolutive antipassive with omitted
underlying Os are:
(82) k-Ø-loq'-on ri w-ika:q'
asp-3sg.abs-buy-abs.ant the my-nephew
my nephew buys
(83) sib'alax k-iU-yax-an-ik
very.much asp-2pl.abs-scold-abs.ant-intr
You really scold a lot
In some cases the omitted O-role NP is a predictable or prototypical O, as
‘song’ for the verb ‘sing’ in (84) (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 525):
270 Lyle Campbell
(84) k-e:-b'iUa-n le: ak'al-a:b' pa xa:h
asp-3pl.abs-sing-abs.ant the child-pl in house
The children sing indoors
3.4.2 Disambiguating function
As seen above (§2.2), sometimes when both the A and O are 3rd persons of
the same number (both singular or both plural), the active transitive sentence
is ambiguous. Also, where one of the arguments is -in- ‘1st person singular’
(which does not distinguish between 1sg.abs and 1sg.erg) and the other
participant is a 2nd person reverential form (sg or pl), the active transitive
sentence would be ambiguous (see above). In these situations, K'iche' prefers
the absolutive antipassive as one mechanism for disambiguating these. Thus,
for example, (85a) and (86a) would be ambiguous:
(85) (a) k-in-toL lah
(1) asp-1sg.erg-help 2sg.abs.rev
I helped you
(2) asp-1sg.abs-help 2sg.erg.rev
You helped me
(86) (a) U-in-kuna-x alaq
(1) asp-1sg.erg-cure-tr 2pl.abs.rev
I cured you
(2) asp-1sg.abs-cure-tr 2pl.erg.rev
You cured me
These are shifted to absolutive antipassive to disambiguate them:
(85) (b)
(1) k-in-toLb'-an Q-e:h lah
asp-1sg.abs-help-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to 2sg.rev
I helped you
(2) k-toLb'-an lah Q-w-e:h
asp-help-abs.ant 2sg.rev.abs to-1sg.poss-to
You helped me
(86) (b)
(1) U-in-kuna-n Q-e:Q alaq
asp-1sg.abs-cure-abs.ant to-to 2pl.abs.rev
I cured you
(2) U-in-kuna-n alaq Q-w-e:h
asp-1sg.abs-cure-abs.ant 2pl.rev.abs to-1sg.poss-to
You cured me
K'iche' 271
3.4.3 Hierarchy-linked function
In K'iche', there is a constraint (mentioned above, see §2.1.2) on transitive
clauses: ‘a third person subject [A] and a second person formal [reverential]
object [O] cannot co-occur in an active [transitive] clause . . . such a combina-
tion will frequently be expressed in an absolutive antipassive construction’.
This constraint is linked to the pronoun/animacy hierarchy. To accommodate
the hierarchy restriction, sentences such as the unacceptable (87a) and (88a)
are put in the absolutive antipassive, as in (87b) and (88b), to make them
acceptable:
(87) (a) ?k-ki-toL lah
asp-3pl.erg-help 2sg.abs.rev
?They help you
(b) k-e:-toLb'-an Q-e:h lah
asp-3pl.abs-help-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to 2sg.rev
They help you18
(88) (a) *k-u-tsuku-x lah
asp-3sg.erg-look.for-tr 2sg.rev.abs
*He looks for you
(b) k-Ø-tsuku-n Q-e:h lah
asp-3sg.abs-look.for-abs.ant to.3sg.poss-to 2sg.rev
He looks for you
3.5 Ambitransitive-like matters and semantic wrinkles
Let us now return to the topic of ambitransitives – verbs which can be used
in both transitive and intransitive clauses. While strictly speaking these do
not occur in K'iche', there is a related phenomenon involving unexpected
semantic and syntactic outcomes of some verbs when they occur with the
‘absolutive’ antipassive suffix. In a very few cases, the transitive verb root in
antipassive form has a meaning more like a medio-passive than the antipassive,
where the single core argument (absolutive) seems to function more as under-
lying O (or reflexive), rather than as an underlying A, as in:
(89) (a) U-Ø-wuli-n le: xa:h
asp-3sg.abs-collapse-abs.ant the house
The house fell down (Mondloch 1979: 273, 289)
(b) U-Ø-wuli-n le: Qoma:l aw-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-collapse-abs.ant the meeting 2sg.poss-by/because
You wrecked the meeting (lit. The meeting came apart because of you / on
your account) (Mondloch 1979: 273, 289; -wuli is translated variously as ‘to
crumble, collapse, dismantle, take apart, wreck’)
18
In this case, -toq and -to(q)b'- are merely allomorphs of the verb ‘to help’.
272 Lyle Campbell
Contrast this with the fully active transitive in (89c) (Davies and Sam-
Colop 1990: 529):
(89) (c) le: kab'raqan U-Ø-u-wuli-x le: xa:h
the earthquake asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-collapse-tr the house
The earthquake crumbled the house
Sentence (89a) does not mean ‘the house collapsed/crumbled something’,
as would normally be expected if it were derived from an active transitive
form, illustrated in (89c). Some other examples of such seemingly medio-
passive verbs are seen in the following pairs which compare the sentences
which have antipassive morphology (in the (a) examples) with the active
transitive sentences (in the (b) examples):
(90) (a) k-Ø-raqi-n le: pu:puh
asp-3sg.abs-break-abs.ant the balloon
The balloon will break [explode] (Mondloch 1979: 273, 289)
(b) le: q'a:q' U-Ø-u-raqi-x le: pu:pux
the fire asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-break-tr the balloon
The fire broke the balloon (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 537)
(91) (a) U-Ø-ts'api-n le: u-QiL xa:h
asp-3sg.abs-close-abs.ant the 3sg.poss-mouth house
The door closed (Trechsel 1982: 65)
(b) le: iUoq U-Ø-u-ts'api-x le: u-QiL xa:h
the woman asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-close-tr the 3sg.poss-mouth house
The woman closed the door (Trechsel 1982: 65)
(92) (a) k-Ø-Q'ax-an le: poLt
asp-3sg.abs-wash-abs.ant the huipil
The huipil (native blouse) runs (is not colour-fast) (Mondloch 1979: 273,
289)
(b) k-Ø-u-Q'ax le: poLt le: ali
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-wash the huipil the girl
The girl washes the huipil (native blouse)
(93) (a) la k-e:-tix-ow le: raqantiU
q asp-3pl.abs-eat-af.ant the elephant
Are elephants eaten? (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 527)
(b) la k-e:-ki-tix le: raqantiU le: aQix-ab'
q asp-3pl.abs-3pl.erg-eat the elephant the man-pl
Do the men eat the elephants?
The verbs of these (a) sentences have been variously called ‘pseudopassives’,
‘inactives’ and ‘middles’ (Davies and Sam-Colop 1990: 527; cf. Mondloch
K'iche' 273
1979, Norman and Campbell 1978). Norman’s and Campbell’s (1978: 151–2)
discussion of these is frequently cited; they say:
Apparently these suffixes [antipassive suffixes in Mayan languages] can
occur in simple intransitive sentences which have no relation to antipassive
constructions. To take an example, both -Vn and -ow are employed in Quiche
antipassive constructions, but they may also derive verb stems which occur
in simple intransitive clauses. It is interesting that the verbs derived with
these suffixes include both actives and inactives. Examples of actives are
plentiful (cf. kinxojowik ‘I dance’ [k-in-Uox-ow-ik [asp-1sg.abs-dance-af.ant-
intr]], kintz'iib'anik ‘I write’ [k-in-ts'i:b'a-n-ik [asp-1sg.abs-write-af.ant-
intr]]); examples of inactives include katijowik ‘it is eaten’ [k-Ø-tix-ow-ik
[asp-3sg.abs-eat-af.ant-intr]], kayub'uwik ‘it is spongy’ [k-Ø-yub'-uw-ik
[asp-3sg.abs-extinguish/tighten-af.ant-intr]], katz'inowik ‘it is silent’ [k-
Ø-ts'in-ow-ik [asp-3sg.abs-be.silent/desolate-af.ant-intr]], kawulinik ‘it
collapses’ [k-Ø-wuli-n-ik [asp-3sg.abs-fall.apart-af.ant-intr]], kajat'inik ‘it
is too tight’ [k-Ø-xat'i-n-ik [asp-3sg.abs-be.tied-af.ant-intr]], karich'inik
‘it tears’ [k-Ø-riQ'i-n-ik [asp-3sg.abs-tear-af.ant-intr]].
In Quiche . . . one could argue that -Vn . . . and -ow . . . are neutral voice
suffixes which derive a class of neutral intransitive stems whose subjects
could be active or inactive, depending on the syntactic construction and the
semantic features of the subject and the verb root.
Davies and Sam-Colop, in their relational grammar account of K'iche'
antipassives, stress these cases where ‘antipassives and “inactives” take the same
voice morphology’ (1990: 527); they analyse the ‘inactives’ as ‘unaccusatives’
(that is, lacking underlying A so that underlying O shifts to surface S; 1990:
535; cf. Sam-Colop 1988: 136). They also argue that K'iche' has ‘a small
number of bivalent verbs’ (1990: 537; as illustrated by the (a–b) pairs in the
sentences above: (90a–93b)). However, I agree with Dayley (1981: 25) in
treating these as ‘a few derived I[ntransitive] V[erb]s that are formally like
absolutive antipassives; however, they have been lexicalized so that their Ss
refer to the P[atient, i.e. O] of the underlying T[ransitive] V[erb], not the A’.19
19
A few verbs have special unexpected meanings, some of which vary from dialect to dialect,
when put in the absolutive antipassive, e.g.:
Q'ax ‘to wash’ Q'axa-n ‘to wash oneself, for colours to run’
elesa:-x ‘to remove, take out’ elesa-n ‘to take after (a chip off the old block)’
(from e:l ‘leave’ + -sa-‘causative’)
k'am ‘to get, receive’ k'am-on ‘to receive, become habitual’
tix ‘to eat’ tix-on ‘to eat people’ (Proto-K'ichean *tix ‘eat meat’)
tsaq ‘to drop (let fall)’ tsaq-an ‘to abort’
ts'uma:-x ‘to kiss’ ts'uma-n ‘to nurse, suckle’
(Mondloch 1979: 291–2; Trechsel 1982: 64)
It should also be noted that a few rtvs can form alternative simple passive forms, either as
expected with lengthened root vowel or through suffixing -ow:
274 Lyle Campbell
4 Reflexives
Reflexives are rather straightforward and do not change the valency of the
sentence. K'iche' reflexives consist of a regular transitive verb followed by
the relational noun -i:b' ‘self’ as the O-role argument, with no argument-
transferring derivations. They are unambiguously transitive in structure, with
-i:b' ‘self’ following the verb and agreeing in person and number with the
A-role verb marking, signalled by the possessive prefixes; since this reflexive
word is an external NP, it is cross-referenced by 3sg.abs in the verb:
(94) U-Ø-qa-kuna:-x q-i:b'
asp-3sg.abs-1pl.erg-cure-tr 1pl.poss-refl
We cured ourselves
(95) k-Ø-a-tixo-x aw-i:b'
asp-3sg.abs-2sg.erg-teach-tr 2sg.poss-refl
You teach yourself
One interesting fact about the reflexives is that they are an exception to the
general rule that A-role participants (ergative, transitive subjects) cannot be
extracted when questioned, relativized or focussed in normal transitive verbs
but must be cast in the agent-focus antipassive as absolutives (above). With
reflexives, the A (ergative, transitive subject) can readily be extracted in order
to be relativized, questioned or focussed with no voice change in the verb
necessary:
(96) (a) U-Ø-w-il ri aQih ri U-Ø-u-sok
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-see the man rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-wound
r-i:b'
3sg.poss-refl
I saw the man who wounded himself
(Footnote 19 continued)
Q'i:x/Q'ix-ow ‘to be tolerated/withstood’
q'i(:)L/q'iL-ow ‘to be tolerated/withstood’
ti:x/tix-ow ‘to be eaten’
k'i:s/k'is-ow ‘to be finished/ended’
ri:q/riq-ow ‘to be reached’
ko:l/kol-ow ‘to be defended/rescued/saved’
The -ow suffix marks the agent-focus antipassives; however, here these are taken to be
passives and not antipassives, since they occur with passive meaning and syntax. For example
(1a) and (1b) show the two passive alternatives, with the same meaning and with the ‘by’
phrase:
(1) (a) U-Ø-k'is-ow xuntir le: wah k-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-finish-pass whole the tortilla 3pl.poss-by
The tortillas were completely finished off by them
(b) U-Ø-k'i:s xuntir le: wah k-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-finish.pass whole the tortilla 3pl.poss-by
The tortillas were completely finished off by them
K'iche' 275
If it were a non-reflexive external NP in A role in the subordinate clause
being relativized, we would expect the agent-focus antipassive, which in this
case turns out to be ungrammatical:
(96) (b) *U-Ø-w-il ri aQih ri U-Ø-sok-ow
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-see the man rel asp-3sg.abs-wound-af.ant
r-i:b'
3sg.poss-refl
*I saw the man who wounded himself
The same is true of the focus (cleft) sentences, where those with agent-
focus antipassive and reflexive together are ungrammatical (Trechsel 1993:
48):
(97) (a) *in U-in-sok-ow w-i:b'
1sg.indep.pn asp-1sg.abs-wound-af.ant 1sg.poss-refl
*I am the one who wounded myself
(b) *in U-Ø-sok-ow w-i:b'
1sg.indep.pn asp-3sg.abs-wound-af.ant 1sg.poss-refl
*I am the one who wounded myself
This must be expressed with regular active transitive morphology (Trechsel
1993: 49):
(97) (c) in U-Ø-in-sok w-i:b'
1sg.indep.pn asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-wound 1sg.poss-refl
I am the one who wounded myself20
20
Mondloch (1981) and Trechsel (1993: 49) report that the constraint against agent-focus
antipassives with reflexives may be more general, since the agent-focus antipassive is also not
permitted when the focussed NP is coreferential with the possessor of a NP in O role, as seen
in the following:
(1) *are: le: a Uwa:n U-Ø-k'at-ow r-aqan
foc the hon John asp-3sg.abs-burn-af.ant 3sg.poss-foot
*John1 is the one who burned his1 foot
(2) *e: xaQi:n U-e:-tsaq-ow ki-xasta:q
pl who asp-3pl.abs-lose-af.ant 3pl.poss-thing
*Who1 are the ones who lost their1 things?
(3) *U-Ø-in-Q'ab'e-x le: aQih le: U-Ø-xaQ-ow
asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-speak-tr the man rel asp-3sg.abs-divorce-af.ant
r-iUoqi:l
3sg.poss-wife
*I talked to the man1 who divorced his1 wife (Trechsel 1993: 49)
The only way to express these grammatically is with an active transitive verb inflected with
both ergative and absolutive affixes.
276 Lyle Campbell
Another somewhat odd piece of behaviour in the K'iche' reflexive is the
fact that reflexive clauses can be passivized in the completive passive:
(98) k-Ø-Q'ax-tax w-i:b' w-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-wash-cmpl.pass 1sg.poss-refl 1sg.poss-by
I will finish washing myself (lit. Myself gets washed by me, i.e., I get
washed by myself)
(99) U-Ø-kuna-tax aw-i:b' aw-uma:l
asp-3sg.abs-cure-cmpl.pass 2sg.poss-refl 2sg.poss-by
You finished curing yourself (lit. Yourself got cured by you, i.e., You got
cured by yourself)21
Reciprocals are straightforward and essentially like reflexives, as seen in:
(100) Ø-ki-tere-b'a-l-oLm k-i:b'
3sg.abs-3pl.erg-follow-caus-Rapid.action-perf 3pl.poss-refl
They are following one after another
One reciprocal construction – an indefinite ‘they’ – used only for indefinite
persons, is essentially merely a passivized version of the transitive reflexive
clause, though with no possessive prefixes on the relational noun i:b' ‘self’,
which otherwise normally does not occur unpossessed, and with the verb
ordinarily only in incompletive aspect (k-):
(101) k-Ø-to:L i:b'
asp-3sg.abs-help.pass refl
They (indefinite) help each other (lit. self is helped)
(102) k-Ø-loq'o-U i:b'
asp-3sg.abs-love-pass refl
They (indefinite) love each other (lit. self is loved) (Mondloch 1979: 211)
21
However, according to Ayres (1980: 56), ‘the relational noun [r-uma:l 3sg.poss-by] may not
be used in conjuction with the reflexive in such passives’, as seen, as he reports, in grammat-
ical (1) and (2), but ungrammatical (3) with completive passive and the ‘by’-phrase:
(1) U-Ø-Q'ax-tax r-uma:l le: aQih
asp-3sg.abs-wash-cmpl.pass 3sg.poss-by the man
It got washed by the man / The man finished washing it
(2) U-Ø-Q'ax-tax r-i:b' le: aQih
asp-3sg.abs-wash-cmpl.pass 3sg.poss-refl the man
The man finished washing himself (lit. himself got washed by the man)
(3) *U-Ø-Q'ax-tax r-i:b' r-uma:l le: aQih
asp-3sg.abs-wash-cmpl.pass 3sg.poss-refl 3sg.poss-by the man
*The man finished washing himself (lit. himself got washed by the man)
K'iche' 277
Essentially it is A-role NPs (transitive subjects) which control reflexivization
(oblique NPs do not control reflexivization in K'iche'; Larsen and Norman
1979: 349), but the statement of the constraint must be refined to take into
account the reciprocal construction in (101) and (102) in which the reflexive
can be passivized. Here it would appear that the former O-role reflexive
relational noun has been placed in S-role (subject of the intransitivized pass-
ive verb); however, in this case the reflexive i:b' is unusual, since relational
nouns characteristically bear a possessive pronominal prefix reflecting the
person and number of the controlling A-role NP, but in this reciprocal con-
struction lack this prefix.
5 Adding an argument to the core: causatives
Causative morphology in K'iche' is rather straightforward and reasonably
productive. The suffix -(i)sa- derives transitive verbs from intransitives, as
seen in the following pairs of sentences:
(103) (a) U-e:-kam-ik
asp-3pl.abs-die-intr
They died
(b) U-e:-qa-kam-isa:-x
asp-3pl.abs-1pl.erg-die-caus-tr
We killed them
(104) (a) U-Ø-atin-ik
asp-3sg.abs-bathe-intr
He bathed
(b) U-Ø-r-atin-isa:-x
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-bathe-caus-tr
She bathed him
The causative of positional stems is signalled by the suffix -b'aq, as in:
(105) U-qa-t'uyu-b'aL lah
asp-1pl.erg-sit-caus 2sg.abs.rev
We seated you
(106) ri tina U-Ø-u-q'oyo-b'aL ri r-a:l pa ri Q'a:t
the Tina asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-lie.down-caus the 3sg.poss-child in the bed
Tina lay her child in the bed
278 Lyle Campbell
6 Argument-manipulating derivation
K'iche' has only one argument-manipulating derivational construction, which
is called instrumental voice (but is in fact an instrumental applicative, in
the terms of Dixon and Aikhenvald 1997). In the construction Mayanists call
‘instrumental voice’ or ‘instrument advancement’, transitive verbs take the
suffix -b'e-, which promotes the underlying instrument to a derived O (direct
object), and the logical O (underlying direct object) is marked obliquely with
a relational noun (-e:h/-e:P) ‘possession’ [gen]). Compare the following pairs
of sentences, where the (a) example is a regular active transitive and the (b)
example is in instrumental voice:
(107) (a) U-Ø-u-rami-x le: Qe:L le: aQih Q-e:h xun Q'i:Q
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cut-tr the tree the man to.3sg.poss-to a metal
The man cut the tree with a machete
(b) Q'i:Q' U-Ø-u-rami-b'e-x le: aQih r-e:h le: Qe:L
metal asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cut-instr-tr the man 3sg.poss-gen the tree
The man used a machete to cut the tree / A machete is what the man used to
cut the tree
(108) (a) U-at-in-Q'ay Qi Qe:L
asp-2sg.abs-1sg.erg-hit with wood
I hit you with a stick
(b) Qe:L U-Ø-in-Q'aya-b'e-x a:w-e:h
wood asp-3sg.abs-1sg.erg-hit-instr-tr 2sg.poss-gen
I used a stick to hit you
In (108b), Pe:q ‘wood, tree, stick’ is promoted to O (direct object) and is
cross-referenced in the verb by -Ø- ‘3sg.abs’, while ‘you’ (the underlying O,
as in (108a)) is relegated to an oblique, here as a:w-e:h (Sam-Colop 1988:
70).
The NP promoted by the instrumental voice need not ‘be a “pure instru-
ment” [though usually it is], but a means of doing something. Thus, it can
be a person, an adverb, or a sentence’ (Sam-Colop 1988: 104; see Mondloch
1981: 296). For example (Sam-Colop 1988: 121):
(109) e: are: q-axa:w k-Ø-ki-toq'i-b'e-x r-e:h ri pwaq
pl foc our-lord asp-3sg.abs-3pl.erg-ask.for-instr-tr 3sg.poss-gen the money
They used God to ask for money
The -b'e- instrumental suffix can also be used with intransitive verb stems
to make a non-A/non-O NP (i.e. instrument, locative) into a core argument of
the verb, as, for example, in:
K'iche' 279
(110) le: aQih le: b'o:la:x U-Ø-u-t'uy-uli-b'e-x
the man the block.of.wood asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-sit-posi-inst-tr
The man sat on a block of wood / The man used a block of wood to sit on
(111) Ø-tak'-al le: aQih Q-u-wa xa:h
3sg.abs-stand-posi the man to-3sg.poss-before house
U-Ø-r-oki-b'e-x le: ts'iL pa xa:h
asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-enter-inst-trthe dog in house
(While) the man (was) standing in front of the house, the dog entered the
house / (The dog used the man’s standing before the house to enter the
house) (Kaufman 1990: 79)
It is possible with the -b'e- instrumental voice also to topicalize another NP
which is not the underlying instrument, as seen in (Kaufman 1990: 79):
(112) le: aQih xukub' k-Ø-u-waLoq-isa-b'e-x r-e:h
the man trough asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-eat-caus-inst-tr 3sg.poss-gen
le: a:q
the pig
As for the man, a trough is what he used to feed the pigs
A NP advanced in the instrumental construction can also be relativized and
questioned (Kaufman 1990: 100):
(113) le: mu:ruh le: U-Ø-u-rami-b'e-x le: Qe:Lle: aQih
the machete rel asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cut-inst-tr the tree the man
The machete with which the man cut the wood . . .
(114) xa:Qike: mu:ruh U-Ø-u-rami-b'e-x le: Qe:L le: aQih
which machete asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-cut-inst-tr the tree the man
With which machete did the man cut the wood?
Otherwise, K'iche' has no special derivational properties for non-A and
non-O participants; all other clauses which in some languages mark a valency
of more than two core arguments mark non-A and non-O obliquely as rela-
tional nouns in K'iche', as seen in the three-place predicate of (115):
(115) le: alah U-Ø-u-ya: le: ya:k Q-e:Q le:
the youth asp-3sg.abs-3sg.erg-give the fox to.3sg.poss-to the
r-aQiLil
his-companion
The boy gave the fox to his friend / The boy gave his friend the fox
7 Summary
Figure 7.3 summarizes some of the verbal morphology involving transitivity,
verb class and valency derivation:
280 Lyle Campbell
Figure 7.3. Verb-class morphology in K'iche'
intrans dtv rtv posi
active -ik (phrase-final) -x (phrase-final) -oh (phrase-final) -iq(-ik)
simple passive -z V: (in root)
completive passive -(V)tax -(V)tax
af.ant -n -ow
abs.ant -(o)n -n
causative -(i)sa- -(i)sa- -b'a-
Figure 7.4 summarizes the choices involved in determining voice markers
and valency derivations in K'iche':
Figure 7.4. Voice markers and valency derivation decisions
clause with both a and o? No = intransitive (-ik phrase-final markers)
Yes:
focus on result? Yes = -(V)tax completive passive
No:
1st and 2nd pers informal arguments? Yes = active tr (-x/-oh phrase-
final markers)
No:
agent focus? Yes = -n/-ow agent-focus antipassive
No:
o focus? Yes = V/-z: simple passive
No:
action focus; reduced transitivity? Yes = (-(o)n/-n)
absolutive antipassive
No = active tr (-x/-oh phrase-final markers)
References
Ayres, G. 1980. ‘A note on Mayan reflexives’, Journal of Mayan Linguistics 2.53–9.
Davies, W.D. and Sam-Colop, L.E. 1990. ‘K'iche' and the structure of antipassive’,
Language 66.522– 49.
Dayley, J.P. 1981. ‘Voice and ergativity in Mayan languages’, Journal of Mayan
Linguistics 2.3–82.
Dixon, R.M.W. 1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikhenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined
constructions’, pp. 71–113 of Essays on language function and language type,
ed. J. Bybee, J. Haiman and S.A. Thompson. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hale, K. and Storto, L. Forthcoming. ‘Agreement and spurious antipassives’. In
ABRALIN, Boletim da Associação Brasileira de Lingüística.
K'iche' 281
Kaufman, T. 1990. ‘Algunos rasgos estructurales de los idiomas mayances con
referencia especial al K'iche'’, pp. 59 –114 of Lecturas sobre la lingüística maya,
ed. N.C. England and S.R. Elliott. Guatemala: Centro de Investigaciones
Regionales de Mesoamerica.
Larsen, T.W. 1987. ‘The syntactic status of ergativity in Quiché’, Lingua 71.33–59.
Larsen, T. and Norman, W.M. 1979. ‘Correlates of ergativity in Mayan grammar’,
pp. 347–70 of Ergativity: towards a theory of grammatical relations, ed. F. Plank.
London: Academic Press.
Mithun, M. 1984. ‘The evolution of noun incorporation’, Language 60.847–94.
Mondloch, J.L. 1976. ‘Positional roots in Quiché’. Unpublished Master’s essay. Univer-
sity of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y.
1978a. Basic Quiché grammar, Institute for Mesoamerican Studies 2. Albany: State
University of New York.
1978b. ‘Disambiguating subjects and objects in Quiché’, Journal of Mayan Lin-
guistics 1.3–19.
1979. ‘Case marking mechanisms in Mayan languages’. Doctoral qualifying exam-
ination essay. Department of Anthropology, State University of New York, Albany.
1981. ‘Voice in Quiché-Maya’. Ph.D. dissertation. State University of New York,
Albany.
Nik’te’ (M.J. Sis Iboy) and Saqijix (C.D. López Ixcoy). 1993. Gramática pedagógica
K'ichee' [Oxlajuuj Keej Maya’ Ajtz’iib]. Guatemala: Universidad Rafael Landívar,
Programa para el Desarrollo Integral de la Población Maya.
Norman, W.M. 1973. ‘Positional and transitive roots in Quiché’. Paper presented at
the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association.
Norman, W.M. and Campbell, L. 1978. ‘Toward a Proto-Mayan syntax: a comparat-
ive perspective on grammar’, pp. 136–56 of Papers in Mayan linguistics, II, ed.
N. England, Miscellaneous Publications in Anthropology 6. Columbia: Museum
of Anthropology, University of Missouri.
Sam Colop, L.E. 1988. ‘Antipassive and the 2 to 3 retreat in K'iche'’. Unpublished
Master’s thesis. University of Iowa.
1990. ‘Bosquejo de algunos temas de la gramática K'iche'’, pp. 127– 44 of Lecturas
sobre la lingüística maya, ed. N.C. England and S.R. Elliott. Guatemala: Centro
de Investigaciones Regionales de Mesoamerica.
Smith-Stark, T. 1978. ‘The Mayan antipassive: some facts and fictions’, pp. 169–87
of Papers in Mayan linguistics, II, ed. N. England, Miscellaneous Publications in
Anthropology 6. Columbia: Museum of Anthropology, University of Missouri.
Trechsel, F.R. 1982. A categorial fragment of Quiché, Texas Linguistics Forum 20.
Austin, Tex.: Department of Linguistics, University of Texas at Austin.
1993. ‘Quiché focus constructions’, Lingua 91.33–78.
282 Randy J. LaPolla
8 Valency-changing derivations in
Dulong/Rawang
RANDY J. LAPOLLA
1 Introduction
Dulong/Rawang is a Tibeto-Burman language spoken on both sides of the
China/Myanmar (Burma) border just south and east of Tibet. In China, the
people who speak this language for the most part live in Gongshan county of
Yunnan province, and belong either to what is known as the ‘Dulong’ nation-
ality (pop. 5,816 according to the 1990 census), or to one part (roughly 6,000
people) of the Nu nationality (those who live along the upper reaches of the
Nu River – the part of the Salween within China). Another subgroup of the
Nu people, those who live along the lower reaches of the Nu River (in China),
speak a language called ‘Anung’ which seems to be the same as, or closely
related to, the Kwinpang dialect spoken in Myanmar, so should also be con-
sidered a dialect of Dulong/Rawang.1
Within Myanmar, the people who speak
the Dulong/Rawang language (possibly up to 100,000 people) live in north-
ern Kachin State, particularly along the Mae Hka (’Nmai Hka) and Maeli
Hka (Mali Hka) River valleys. In the past they had been called ‘Hkanung’ or
‘Nung’, and have often been considered to be a subgroup of the Kachin
(Jinghpaw). Among themselves they have had no general term for the entire
group; they use their respective clan names to refer to themselves. This is true
also of those who live in China, although these people have accepted the
I’d like to thank all those who gave me comments on the draft of this chapter presented at the
International Workshop on Valency-changing Derivations (Canberra, 1997), and also the editors
of this volume and Tasaku Tsunoda for comments on the written version.
1
See Sun (1988) for a brief description of the Anung language. See Lo (1945), Sun (1982), Liu
(1988), Dai et al. (1991) and LaPolla (1995b) for descriptions of Dulong dialects. Barnard
(1934) is a description of the Wvdamkong dialect of Rawang, though it does not mark tones or
glottal stops, and the structures presented there seem to have been influenced by the working
language (Jinghpaw) used for the elicitation.
Dulong/Rawang 283
exonym ‘Dulong’ (or ‘Taron’, or ‘Trung’), a name they were given because
they mostly live in the valley of the Dulong (Taron/Trung) River.2
Recently, speakers of this language in Myanmar have begun a movement
to use the name /rEwan/ (spelled ‘Rvwang’ in the Rawang orthographies, but
‘Rawang’ for this chapter) to represent all of its speakers. This name is said
to be an abbreviation for rvmèwàng ‘middle river’, as the Rawang people are
said to have come down from the north along the middle river (the Mekong).
The speakers in China, though, continue to use the name ‘Dulong’. For this
reason I refer to the language as Dulong/Rawang.3
In this chapter, I will be
using data of the Mvtwang (Mvt River) dialect, which is considered the most
central of those dialects in Myanmar and so has become something of a
standard for writing4
and intergroup communication, though most of the
phenomena we will be discussing are general to dialects in both China and
Myanmar.5
I will use the short form ‘Rawang’ in referring to this dialect.
2 Verb classes
In Rawang there are three classes of verb: intransitives, which can be used
transitively only when they take valency-increasing morphological marking
2
The name ‘Nung’ ∼ ‘Anung’ (< Rawang NSng) seems to be related to one of the Rawang
names for the Salween, TìnSng ‘Brown River’, a place where the Rawang people are said to
have settled for quite some time before moving further west. In the past, the Dulong River,
particularly the upper stretches, was known in Chinese as the Qiu River, and the Dulong
people were known as the Qiu, Qiuzi, Qiupa or Qiao.
3
The actual number of dialects of Dulong/Rawang that exist and the relationships among them
still need to be worked out, but it seems there are at least seven major dialects: Mvtwang,
Wvdamkong, Longmi, Dvru (Ganung), Dulong, Tangsarr and Kwinpang (Anung). Within the
Dulong dialect it is also possible to distinguish at least four subvarieties: First Township, Third
Township, Fourth Township and Nujiang Dulong. The differences among these subvarieties
are rather minor, and so all are mutually intelligible. The dialect picture is actually not neatly
divided between Chinese and Myanmar dialects, as Third Township Dulong and Dvru (spoken
in Myanmar) are both very conservative phonologically, while the First Township, Fourth
Township and Nujiang varieties of Dulong share phonological innovations with other dialects
in Myanmar.
4
A system of writing using the Roman alphabet and a few other symbols was developed by the
American missionary Robert H. Morse (see Morse 1963 for an analysis of Rawang phono-
logy), and is in common use among the Rawang people. This system will be used in this
chapter. Most letters represent the standard pronunciations of English, except that i = [i], v = [B],
a = [J], ø = [8], q = [L] and c = [s] or [ts] (free variation; historically [ts]). Tones are marked
as follows (using the letter a as a base): high tone, á; mid tone, a; low tone, à. All syllables that
end in a stop consonant (-p, -t, -L, -k) are in the high tone. Open syllables without a tone mark
are unstressed. A colon marks non-basic long vowels.
5
The data used for this chapter are from a number of different speakers, though mainly from
James Khong Sar Ong and Meram Rawang, both native Mvtwang speakers from Kachin State,
Myanmar. I would like to thank them for their assistance.
284 Randy J. LaPolla
(e.g. ngTb ‘to cry’);6
transitives, which can be used intransitively only when
they take valency-reducing morphological marking (e.g. ríòb ‘to carry (some-
thing)’); ambitransitives (labile verbs), which can be used as transitives or
intransitives without morphological derivation (Umòb/Wmb ‘to eat’).7
The cita-
tion form for verbs is the 3rd person non-past affirmative/declarative form;
intransitives take the non-past affirmative/declarative particle (b) alone, while
transitives take the non-past 3rd person O marker (ò) plus the non-past af-
firmative/declarative particle (b). A second difference between intransitive
and transitive verbs is that in transitive clauses the agentive marker generally
appears on the NP representing the A argument.8
In past-tense clauses (with
3rd person O arguments), transitives can be distinguished from intransitives
by the appearance of the transitive past-tense marker (-à) instead of the
intransitive past-tense marker (-ì). We will discuss derived transitives and
intransitives below.9
Ambitransitive verbs are verbs that can be used either as transitives (and so
take the 3rd person transitive tense markers) or as intransitives (and take the
intransitive past-tense marker), without requiring any other morphological
derivation. There are both S = O types and S = A types. With the S = O type,
as in (1), below, adding an A argument creates a causative, without the need
to use the causative prefix. With the S = A type, use of the intransitive vs the
transitive form marks a difference between a general or habitual situation and
a particular situation respectively. The choice is due partly to the nature of
6
Some stative intransitive verbs can take an oblique argument marked by the locative/dative
marker sVng, e.g. svrb ‘to be afraid’, where the stimulus is marked as an oblique argument:
ngà vgcs§ng svrbngb
ngà vgc-s§ng svrb-ng-b
1sg dog-loc afraid-1sg-n.past
I’m afraid of dogs
7
I have found one case where there are two verbs with the same meaning, one transitive and the
other intransitive. These are the verbs for ‘arrive’: hTq (høqòb) is transitive, tuq (tuqb) is
intransitive: ngà tukngb ‘I arrived’; ngàí Yanggeng hTk yVngà ‘I have been to Yangon’. This
shows that transitivity is a salient grammatical category in this language, unlike in many other
Sino-Tibetan languages (e.g. Chinese, Lahu; see Matisoff 1976: 413 on the non-salience of
transitivity as a grammatical category in Lahu).
8
Morse (1965: 348) analysed the appearance of the verbal suffix -ò as a necessary criterion for
a clause to be transitive, and so argued that only clauses with 3rd person O arguments were
transitive. I have chosen to analyse this suffix as marking a 3rd person O argument (from a
comparison with other dialects, it seems this form comes from the 3rd person form of the verb
‘to do’), and consider clauses that do not have 3rd person O arguments as transitive if the NP
representing the A argument can take the agentive marker. To avoid confusion, I have gener-
ally used examples involving 3rd person O arguments in this chapter.
9
The transitive verb marking can also be added to some nouns to make transitive cognate noun–
verb combinations, e.g. (àng)chbr chbròb ‘grow wings’, pvle pvleòb ‘lay out a mat’. (Neither
the causative nor applicative markers are used to make verbs from nouns.)
Dulong/Rawang 285
the O, and partly to the nature of general vs specific action. I.e. if the O is
specific, then the transitive form must be used, but if the O is non-specific, it
is not necessary to use the intransitive form. If no O is mentioned, then
usually the intransitive form is used. Some examples are given in (2):
(1) S = O type
(a) gvyaqb ‘be broken, destroyed’ gvyaqòb ‘break, destroy’
(b) gvyøpmb ‘be crumpled’ gvyø:pmòb ‘crumple’
(c) dvtnb ‘be broken, snapped (thread)’ da:tnòb ‘break, snap’ (vt)
(d) bvløpmb ‘be folded’ bvlø:pmòb ‘fold’ (vt)
(e) dvchøpmb ‘be capped’ dvchø:pmòb ‘put cap on’
(f) mèsòg£m jaqb
mèsòg£m jaq-b
paper have.holes-n.past
The paper has holes in it
(g) à:ngí mèsòg£m jaq b™à
àng-í mèsòg£m jaq b™-à
3sg-agt paper make.holes pfv-3+tr.past
He made holes in the paper
(2) S = A type
(a) àng ¶mb
àng ¶m-b
3sg eat-n.past
He’s eating / He eats
(a') à:ngí yalòng ∞mpà á:mòb
àng-í ya-lòng ∞mpà ∞m-ò-b
3sg-agt this-cl rice eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is eating this rice
(b) àng pé zvtnb
àng pé zvt-b
3sg basket weave-n.past
He weaves baskets (general or habitual sense)
(b') à:ngí pé tiqch§ng za:tnòb
àng-í pé tiq-ch§ng zvt-ò-b
3sg-agt basket one-cl weave-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is weaving a basket
Rawang seems to have only two lexical ditransitive (extended transitive)
verbs: zí ‘give’ (3a) and Wl ‘tell’ (3b). All other ditransitive verbs, such as
another form of ‘tell’ (3c), dvtanòb ‘show’ (< vtanb ‘be clearly visible’),
shvríòb ‘send’ (< rí ‘carry’), etc., are all derived using the causative construc-
tion (see (a) in §3.2.1). In both lexical and derived ditransitives, the Recipient
286 Randy J. LaPolla
takes Dative/Goal (Locative) marking, while the Gift is unmarked. The Donor
usually takes the agentive marker. It is not possible to use the causative prefix
on zí ‘give’; for a causative sense, the analytical causative construction must
be used (see (b) in §3.2.1). There is also no construction analogous to English
‘dative shift’. The order of the NPs may vary according to the information
structure, but there is no change in the morphological marking.
(3) (a) Vpengí Vd™s§ng lègabok zíòb
Vpeng-í Vd™-s§ng lèga-bok zí-ò-b
Vpung-agt Vdeu-loc book-cl give-3+tr.n.past-n.past
Vpung is giving Vdeu the book
(b) àngkaq ngà zòngs§ng dìám èa:lòé
àng-kaq ngà zòng-s§ng dì-ám è-¶l-ò-é
3sg-loc 1sg school-loc go-dir n.1-tell-3+tr.n.past-exc
Tell him I went to school
(c) àngkaq ngà zòngs§ng dìám wa dètáò
àng-kaq ngà zòng-s§ng dì-ám wa dv-è-tá-ò
3sg-loc 1sg school-loc go-dir comp caus-n.1-hear-3+tr.n.past
Tell him I went to school
There are also at least three verbs that may be considered extended intrans-
itives: mvyR ‘to want, to like’, vdá ‘to have, to own’ and wa ‘to say’ (‘see’,
‘look at’, ‘hear’ and ‘listen to’ all pattern as normal transitives). They are
always intransitive, in that they cannot take the transitive tense suffixes, and
the NP representing the A argument does not take the agentive marker, but
they generally take two arguments, the A argument and an O argument (a
clause (propositional argument) in the case of mvyR and wa), neither of which
takes any kind of role marking (though the initial NP can take topic marking).
Examples are given in (4):10
(4) (a) ngà kédan lún mvy™ngb
ngà kédan lún mvy™-ng-b
1sg pen have want-1sg-n.past
I want to have a pen
10
The verb mvyR ‘to want’ only takes a clausal argument. For wanting of an object rather than
a propositional argument, usually the verb shòng ‘to love, like’ is used, e.g.:
(nà) kapà èshòngb
(nà) ka-pà è-shòng-b
(2sg) q.pn-thing n.1-like/love-n.past
What do you want?
The verb vdá can be used without the O argument, but then has the meaning ‘to be rich’.
Dulong/Rawang 287
(b) ngà p¶ngdangs§ng dc mvy™ngb
ngà p¶ngdang-s§ng dc mvy™-ng-b
1sg below-loc go want-1sg-n.past
I want to go downstairs/below
(c) n¢ngmaq (n¢) r£mn¶ng ànglí tiqcég™ vdáìb
n¢ngmaq n¢ r£mn¶ng ànglí tiq-cé-g™ vdá-ì-b
1pl top friend old one-ten-cl have-1pl-n.past
We have ten old friends
(d) ngà laq dc wab
ngà laq dc wa-b
1sg should go say-n.past
He says I should go
The locative postposition in (4b) is on an argument of the embedded clause,
not the matrix clause. The matrix verb mvyR follows the verb of the embedded
clause directly, and no directional or other post-verbal morphology can inter-
vene. That is, there is no tense, nominalization or person marking on the
embedded clause. The intransitive nature of the verb wa can be seen clearly
when contrasted with the homophonous verb wa ‘to do’, which is transitive:11
(4) (e) àng wàapmì
àng wà-ap-ì
3sg say-tmdys-3+intr.past
He said something [< wab]
(f) à:ngí wàapmà
àng-í wà-ap-à
3sg-agt do-tmdys-3+tr.past
He did something [< waòb]
3 Argument-transferring derivations
There are a number of constructions for increasing or reducing the valency of
verbs in Rawang, but there is no passive or antipassive construction.
11
The verb wa ‘to say’ can also have the sense of a hearsay particle, as in the following two
examples:
(1) nà èdì b™ì wab
nà è-dì b™-ì wa-b
2sg n.1-go pfv-3+intr.past say-n.past
I heard you went ( just now)
(2) darì dvgvp àngn¢ngn¶m vsh£mpè a:lb wab
darì dvgvp àngn¢ngn¶m vsh£m-pè ¶l-b wa-b
past time brothers three-m exist-n.past say-n.past
It is said that in the past there were three brothers
288 Randy J. LaPolla
3.1 Valency-reducing derivations
There are two ways that transitive verbs can be intransitivized. One is by use
of the intransitivizing prefix v-. The other is by using the reflexive/middle-
marking suffix -shì.
3.1.1 The intransitivizing prefix
The main function of the prefix v- is intransitivization, as in (5a–b), but if the
single direct argument of the derived intransitive is a plural animate argu-
ment, then the meaning is reciprocal, as in (5c–f ):
(5) (a) tá:lòb > vt¶lb
t∞l-ò-b v-t∞l-b
roll-3+tr.n.past-n.past pref-roll-n.past
to roll (vt) to roll (vi)
(b) ngaqòb > vngaqb
ngaq-ò-b v-ngaq-b
push.over-3+tr.n.past-n.past pref-push.over-n.past
push over fall over
(c) àngmaq vshvtnb
àng-maq v-shvt-b
3pl pref-hit/kill-n.past
They are arguing/fighting
(d) àngmaq vy§ng kbb
àng-maq v-y§ng-kb-b
3pl pref-see-recip-n.past
They are looking at each other
(e) àngmaq shà∞m kbb
àng-maq shv-v-∞m kb-b
3pl caus-pref-eat recip-n.past
They are feeding each other
(f) àngmaq tas§ng talb dà-zà-kb-b
àng-maq ta-s§ng ta-lb d§-v-zà kb-b
3pl (to.each.other) caus-pref-feel.ill/pain recip-n.past
They are hurting each other
In (5c), the v- prefix is used alone for the reciprocal meaning. This is the
normal pattern in Dulong/Rawang in general, but in the Mvtwang dialect, the
verb kb ∼ ké ‘eat (meat), bite’ has grammaticalized into an auxiliary recip-
rocal marker, and generally the two markers are used together. This usage is
shown in (5d–f ). In (5e–f) we have a combination of the causative prefix
(both allomorphs; see §3.2.1(a)) and the reciprocal use of the intransitivizing
Dulong/Rawang 289
prefix. See that when two non-basic prefixes combine, in this case shv- ∼ dv-
and v-, the result is that the vowel becomes [J-], and it takes on a full tone. In
(5f) we also have a 3rd marker of reciprocity, tasVng talb, a phrase meaning
‘to each other’.12
The v- prefix can function to intransitivize in order to create something like
a noun incorporation structure or to mark an unexpected or unintentional
action (‘just happened to . . .’):13
(6) ríòb > c§mré vrc∞mì
rí-ò-b c§mré v-rc-∞m-ì
carry-3+tr.n.past-n.past child pref-carry-dir-3+intr.past
to carry to have become pregnant
(7) z£mòb > vz¢m∞mì
z£m-ò-b v-z¢m-∞m-ì
hold-3+tr.n.past-n.past pref-hold-dir-3+intr.past
to hold to happen to grab (as when grabbing for
something when slipping down a hill)
The v- prefix is also used in some cases to derive nouns from verbs, such
as vngR ‘someone who likes to cry a lot’, from ngTb ‘to cry’; vkR ‘thief’,
from kTb ∼ kRòb ‘to steal’.14
In these cases there is also a change to high tone
on the derived noun.
3.1.2 The reflexive/middle marker
The verbal suffix -shì in Rawang functions in a similar way to the reflexive
construction in French, in that it marks true reflexives, as in (8a–b), and also
middles, as in (8c–d):
(8) (a) àng (n¢ àng) vdipshìb
àng n¢ àng vdip-shì-b
3sg top 3sg hit-r/m-n.past
He is hitting himself
12
I am unclear on the meaning of ta, as it only appears in this expression; sVng is the locative/
allative/dative marker in Rawang, and lb is possibly cognate with the allative/dative marker
le31
found in some of the Dulong dialects.
13
As is common in Tibeto-Burman languages, the directional particles are often used to mark a
change of state, e.g. tb-b ‘big’, té-lú:ng-ì ‘big-up-3+intr.past’ (‘became big; grew up’); dT
‘dark’, dT-daq-ì ‘dark-down-3+intr.past’ (‘became dark (of the sky)’); cUm-b ‘small’, cUm-
á:m-ì ‘small-away-3+intr.past’ (or cUm daq-ì) (‘became small’). It may be that in these
examples what the directional particles are doing is marking a change of state, e.g. that in (6)
and (7) the meanings are closer to ‘come to be baby-carrying’ and ‘come to be holding’
respectively.
14
As ‘to steal’ is an ambitransitive verb, it may be that the noun is derived from the intransitive
form of that verb, and so the rule of v- derivation would be that when the v- prefix is added to
a transitive verb it forms a derived intransitive, and when added to an intransitive forms a
derived noun.
290 Randy J. LaPolla
(b) àng megwàí kupshìb
àng megwà-í kup-shì-b
3sg plastic.raincoat-inst cover-r/m-n.past
He is covering himself with a plastic raincoat
(c) àng léshì b™ì
àng lé-shì b™-ì
3sg cross-r/m pfv-3.intr.past
He went out.
(d) àng vh¢shìb
àng vh¢-shì-b
3sg laugh/smile-r/m-n.past
He is laughing (or smiling)
In most reflexives it is possible to add a pronoun representing the O argu-
ment, which will be understood as coreferential with the clause-initial NP, as
in (8a). The pronoun used for this is a normal pronoun; there are no special
reflexive pronouns, only special emphatic pronouns, e.g. vdè ‘oneself’ (in the
sense of ‘do something oneself’, not ‘to oneself’).
The direct reflexive and the middle are semantically similar in that one and
the same referent is performing and being affected by the action, but in the
case of middles these two semantic aspects of the referent or the action are
not as clearly distinct as for direct reflexives. Kemmer (1993) characterizes
middles as involving a ‘low elaboration of participants in an event’ (ch. 3),
or, more generally, a ‘low elaboration of events’ (ch. 6) relative to direct
reflexives. There is a formal difference in that for middle verbs the marking is
often obligatory for a certain meaning. That is, having or not having the
marker on the verb will involve a change in the meaning of the verb, e.g. lb
‘to cross’ and cVn ‘to follow’ vs léshì ‘to go out’ and cWnshì ‘to learn’, while
with direct reflexives the addition of the marker only changes the relationship
between the two participants in the action. In Dulong/Rawang the semantic
types of situations that are coded with the reflexive/middle marker include
those that are marked with middle-voice marking in languages that have
unique middle-voice marking, e.g. Old Norse, Russian and Dutch. These
types include changes in body posture, emotions, cognitive actions, grooming
actions and spontaneous events.15
The reflexive/middle marking is generally added only to transitive verbs,
and makes them intransitive, in that the A argument can no longer take the
15
See Kemmer (1993) for an in-depth discussion of middles and the categories often marked by
middle marking. For more on the use of the reflexive/middle marker in Dulong/Rawang using
data from the Third Township Dulong dialect, see LaPolla (1995b), and for more on middle
marking in other Tibeto-Burman languages, see LaPolla (1996).
Dulong/Rawang 291
agentive suffix and the verb cannot take the transitive tense markers. Though
the resulting verb is intransitive, it contrasts with intransitives formed by the
intransitivizing prefix (v-) in that the verbs with the intransitive prefix express
an action that is unintentional, while those marked with the reflexive/middle
marker express an action that is intentional. Compare the examples in (9a–c)
with the derived intransitives in (5a–c).
(9) (a) t∞lshìb
t∞l-shì-b
roll-r/m-n.past
to roll oneself (on purpose; intransitive, but with intentionality)
(b) ngaqshìb
ngaq-shì-b
push.over-r/m-n.past
fall over (on purpose)
(c) y∞ngshìb
y§ng-shì-b
see/look.at-r/m-n.past
look at oneself/make oneself visible, manifest oneself (such as a spirit)16
While clauses with reflexive/middle-marked verbs are formally intrans-
itive, an unmarked NP (representing an O argument) may appear in the clause,
as in (10a–b):
(10) (a) àng n¢l tutshìb
àng n¢l tut-shì-b
3sg fingernail cut-r/m-n.past
He is cutting his fingernails
(b) àng m∞r z∞lshìb
àng m∞r z∞l-shì-b
3sg face wash-r/m-n.past
He is washing his face
These examples represent situations that seem to be transitive events, and in
languages, such as English and Chinese, that do not have middle marking and
represent some middle situations with prototypical transitive forms, these
examples would be coded as transitives. The possessive relationship between
the A argument and the bodypart must be overtly coded in English with a
16
In the Dulong dialects there is a formal difference between the two meanings given for this
example (which generally only holds for perception verbs): for the meaning ‘look at oneself’,
only the reflexive/middle marker is used, i.e. ƒEn55
-(H31
, while for the more stativized meaning
‘be visible, manifest oneself’, the intransitivizing prefix is also added to the verb, i.e. E-ƒEn55
-
(H31
. If a perceiver must be mentioned in the clause, it is marked with the locative/dative
postposition (le31
in the Third Township Dulong dialect, sVng in the Mvtwang dialect).
292 Randy J. LaPolla
genitive construction, as in the free translations given above. In Chinese, the
relationship between the possessor and possessed bodypart is not overtly
coded at all, and so must be inferred, as in the following example:
(11) wT yào xS liPn
1sg want wash face
I want to wash (my) face
In Rawang, the possessor–possessed relationship must be marked by the
reflexive/middle marker.
Where the O argument represented by the unmarked NP is not a bodypart,
the referent will be understood as something that has some sort of strong
connection with the referent of the A argument. Consider the examples in
(12) to (14):
(12) (a) àng tvw§n vchaqòb
àng tvw§n vchaq-ò-b
3sg snow brush-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is brushing the snow off (something)
(b) àng tvw§n vchaqshìb
àng tvw§n vchaq-shì-b
3sg snow brush-r/m-n.past
He is brushing the snow off (himself)
(13) (a) à:ngí shvm™ sha:tnòb
àng-í shvm™ shvt-ò-b
3sg-agt mosquito kill-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is killing a mosquito
(b) àng shvm™ shvtshìb
àng shvm™ shvt-shì-b
3sg mosquito kill-r/m-n.past
He is killing a mosquito (on him)
(14) (a) àng laqten w¶nòb
àng laqten w¶n-ò-b
3sg clothing buy-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is buying clothing
(b) àng laqten w¶nshìb
àng laqten w¶n-shì-b
3sg clothing buy-r/m-n.past
He is buying himself clothing
In these cases, the sense of the reflexive/middle is more like a benefactive,
doing something for oneself rather than to oneself. There is still an over-
lapping of roles on one referent, but instead of the two roles being A and O,
they are A and Benefactive.
Dulong/Rawang 293
In some cases there is a difference of tone on the verb in a direct reflexive
situation as opposed to an indirect reflexive. In these cases a high tone marks
a direct reflexive, while a mid tone marks an indirect reflexive. This can be
seen by comparing the (a) and (b) examples in (15–16):
(15) (a) àng n¢ àng vd™rshìb
àng n¢ àng vd™r-shì-b
3sg top 3sg hit-r/m-n.past
He’s hitting himself
(b) àng n¢ àng vd¢rshìb
àng n¢ àng vd¢r-shì-b
3sg top 3sg hit-r/m-n.past
He is hitting his own (child, etc.)
(16) (a) nà n¢ nà èwáshì b™ì
nà n¢ nà è-wá-shì b™-ì
2sg top 2sg n.1-do-r/m pfv-3+intr.past
You did it to yourself
(b) nà n¢ nà èwashì b™ì
nà n¢ nà è-wa-shì b™-ì
2sg top 2sg n.1-do-r/m pfv-3+intr.past
You did it for yourself
In (15b) the form is that of a direct reflexive except for the tone on the verb,
which marks the action as not a direct reflexive, so the object hit must be
something other than the actor, but something closely related to the actor. In
(16a–b) again the forms differ only in terms of the tone, but this makes the
difference between the actor as O and the actor as Benefactive (with possibly
some other assumed O).
A subtype of this indirect reflexive is when the reflexive/middle marker is
used to show an alienable possessive relationship between the A and O argu-
ments, as in (17).
(17) Vpeng (n¢) Vd™s§ng lègabok zcshìb
Vpeng n¢ Vd™-s§ng lèga-bok zc-shì-b
Vpung top Vdeu-loc book-cl give-r/m-n.past
Vpung gave his (own) book to Vdeu
In the case of some auxiliary verbs, the reflexive/middle marker is used on
the auxiliary simply to intransitivize it to match the matrix verb in terms of
transitivity. Compare the two sentences in (18).
(18) (a) à:ngí sh™ng ríma:nòb
àng-í sh™ng rí-m¶n-ò-b
3sg-agt tree/wood carry-continue-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is continuing to carry the wood
294 Randy J. LaPolla
(b) àng yøpm¶nshìb
àng yøp-m¶n-shì-b
3sg sleep-continue-r/m-n.past
He is continuing to sleep
In (18a), the main verb, ríòb ‘carry’, is transitive, and so the auxiliary verb,
mWnòb ‘continue’, is also transitive, but in (18b), the main verb, yøpmb ‘sleep’,
is intransitive, and so mWnòb takes the reflexive/middle marker to make it
intransitive. A number of other auxiliary verbs, such as dUnòb ‘be about to’,
menòb ‘be used to’, dUngòb ‘be finished’, pUngòb ‘begin to’ and nbòb ‘be
willing to’, also follow this pattern. These verbs follow this pattern even with
the different forms of the ambitransitive verbs, that is, when the ambitransitive
main verb is used as an intransitive, the auxiliary verb takes -shì, but if the
ambitransitive main verb is used as a transitive verb, then -shì is not used.
Compare (19a–b), for example:
(19) (a) àng ∞md∞ngshì b™ì
àng ∞m-d∞ng-shì b™-ì
3sg eat-finish-r/m pfv-3+intr.past
He finished eating [intransitive ¶mb ‘eat’]
(b) à:ngí ∞mpàlòng ∞md∞ng b™à
àng-í ∞mpà-lòng ∞m-d∞ng b™-à
3sg-inst food-cl eat-finish pfv-3+tr.past
He has finished eating the food [transitive ∞mòb ‘eat’]
The pattern is also followed when the main verb is nominalized, as in (20):
(20) vngaql∞m d∞nshìb
v-ngaq-l∞m d∞n-shì-b
pref-push-inf about.to-r/m-n.past
It seems like it is about to fall down
The reflexive/middle marker can also be used when one wants to stress that
some expression represents a general situation or existing state rather than a
specific event. Compare (21a) and (21b) below:
(21) (a) à:ngí àngs§ng shvngdòb
àng-í àng-s§ng shvngd-ò-b
3sg-agt 3sg-loc hate-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He hates him
(b) àng n¢ shvngdshìb
àng n¢ shvngd-shì-b
3sg top hate-r/m-n.past
He’s hateful
Dulong/Rawang 295
Example (21a) expresses the idea that the referent feels hate towards a specific
individual, while (21b) expresses the idea that he is hateful in general, not
that he hates any one person in particular.17
Compare now (22a) and (22b).
(22) (a) àng sh§m pbshìb
àng sh§m pb-shì-b
3sg sword hang.on.shoulder-r/m-n.past
He is wearing a sword
(b) à:ngí sh§m péòb
àng-í sh§m pé-ò-b
3sg-inst sword hang.on.shoulder-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is putting on or wearing a sword
In (22a), the situation is expressed as an on-going state rather than an action
or event, while in (22b) the action is a transitive event which could involve
either the putting on or the wearing of the sword (notice in English we use
two different verbs for these two meanings). There is a privative opposition
between the two forms, in that the transitive form can be used for either
meaning, while the reflexive/middle-marked verb has only the state-like mean-
ing. To express the meaning ‘put on’ without ambiguity, it is possible to use
the causative prefix (see §3.2.1(a) below) together with the reflexive/middle
marker, as in (22c):
(22) (c) àng sh§m dvpbshìb
àng sh§m dv-pb-shì-b
3sg sword caus-hang.on.shoulder-r/m-n.past
He is putting on a sword
As discussed in LaPolla (1995a), it seems that the reflexive/middle marker
may have at first been used only for direct reflexives, then came to be used
more and more to express middle situations, i.e. came more and more to be
associated with situations where there is a ‘low elaboration of events’, and
then, when used on transitive verbs, came to have a function similar to that of
a ‘stativizer’: diminishing the conceptual separation of the events and particip-
ants involved, making the overall event more like a state.
3.2 Valency-increasing derivations
There are six different ways that the valency of a clause can be increased
in Rawang. There are two types of causative construction, an applicative
17
Because this is also the reflexive form of the verb, it is ambiguous between the general
meaning and the reflexive meaning, so for the reflexive meaning a second pronoun is often
added after the topic marker: àng nT àng shvngdshìb ‘He hates himself’.
296 Randy J. LaPolla
benefactive, a -t suffix, non-use of the reflexive/middle marker on ‘deponent’
verbs, and the use of the verb kéòb ‘eat (meat), bite’ as an adversative mark-
ing auxiliary verb. We will discuss each construction in turn.
3.2.1 Causative constructions
There are two unrelated types of causative marking: a verbal prefix (shv- ∼
dv-) and an analytical (periphrastic) causative construction involving the verb
dvzUr ‘send’.
(a) The causative prefix The main morphological means for deriving
causative verbs is adding the causative prefix (shv- ∼ dv-).18
The verb in a
causative involving the causative prefix can represent a state, a process or an
action, and can be intransitive or transitive, but not ditransitive. A causative
formed by the verbal prefix can generally be either a direct causative (actually
bringing about a change of state or directly causing or helping a causee
perform an action) or an indirect causative (having someone do something,
but without the causer being physically involved as in the direct causative).
There is no difference whether the causee is willing to perform the action or
not, whether the action was accidental or not, or whether the causee is in
control or not. The causative of an intransitive verb becomes a transitive
verb, taking on the transitive tense marking, and the NP representing the A
argument can take the agentive marking. In some cases a locative-marked
argument in the intransitive takes the instrument marker in the causativized
form (see (28a–b) for example). With the causative of a transitive verb, the
NP representing the causer can take the agentive marker, the NP representing
the A argument (the causee) often takes the dative/locative marker, and the
NP representing the O argument is unmarked. The causative prefix is not
used for applicatives or to derive verbs from nouns, and it is not used on
ditransitives (though it is used to create ditransitives). The analytical causative
18
In the Dulong dialects of Dulong/Rawang, there is clear phonetic conditioning on the two
forms of the causative prefix (tH31
- and sH31
-): the form tH31
- is used before voiceless fricative
initials, while sH31
- is used before all other initials. I have not found any such phonetic
conditioning in the Rawang dialects. I have also not found Morse’s (1965: 348) statement that
dv- is used mainly on intransitives to be correct. One factor that may be involved is that some
verbs can take both prefixes, but then only shv- has a causative meaning, while dv- has
the sense of ‘able to [Verb]’, e.g. léb ‘to cross (a stream, etc.)’, dv-lbb ‘to be able to cross’,
shv-léòb ‘make (him) cross’ (it can be seen from these examples that when dv- has this
meaning it does not transitivize the verb). The causative prefix clearly derives from the
Proto-Sino-Tibetan causativizing/transitivizing *s- prefix (see for example Benedict 1972:
105–6; Mei 1989), but the origin of this prefix in Sino-Tibetan is not clear. The analytical
causative is a relatively late development, and paralleled in many other Sino-Tibetan lan-
guages (see LaPolla 1994).
Dulong/Rawang 297
construction must be used for causatives of ditransitives. There is generally
no way for the verb to remain intransitive and yet have an A argument
represented, e.g. as a peripherally marked NP. The only exception to this is
the possible addition of an experiencer/perceiver argument using the locative/
dative postposition to certain derived intransitives of perception (see note 16).
I have not found any particular syntactic or discourse functions associated
with use of the causative aside from the semantic function of adding an A
argument. Following are some examples:
(23) n™b > shvn™òb
n™-b shv-n™-ò-b
be.tame-n.past caus-tame-3+tr.n.past-n.past
be tame to tame (an animal) (vt)
(24) vm¶ngngb > shvmá;ngòb
vm¶ng-b shv-vm¶ng-ò-b
be.lost-n.past caus-be.lost-3+tr.n.past-n.past
be lost to lose (something)
(25) l£mmb > shvl£:mòb
l£m-b shv-l£m-ò-b
be.warm-n.past caus-be.warm-3+tr.n.past-n.past
be warm to warm (something)
(26) vshatnb > dvshatnòb
vshat-b dv-vshat-ò-b
wake.up-n.past caus-wake.up-3+tr.n.past-n.past
wake up wake (someone) up
(27) vh£mmb > dvh£mòb
vh£m-b dv-vh£m-ò-b
meet-n.past caus-meet-3+tr.n.past-n.past
meet gather, get together
(28) (a) shvrì tiqgd tvwátaq wá apì
shvrì tiq-gd tvwá-taq wá ap-ì
deer one-cl trap(n.)-loc be.trapped tmdys-3+intr.past
A deer was caught in a trap
(b) shvrì tiqgd tvwáí shvwá apà
shvrì tiq-gd tvwá-í shv-wá ap-à
deer one-cl trap(n.)-inst caus-be.trapped tmdys-3+intr.past
(He) caught a deer in/with a trap
In the causative forms in (24), (26) and (27), even though there is a com-
bination of shv- ~ dv- and v-, the resulting vowel is still [B], and not [J-], as
298 Randy J. LaPolla
the v- here is inherent to the root form and not a derivational prefix. Only a
combination of two derivational prefixes causes the vowel change. In the
intransitive (28a) (‘to be caught in a trap’), the NP tvwá ‘trap(n.)’ takes locat-
ive marking, while in the causativized version in (28b) (‘cause to be trapped’)
the same NP has instrumental marking. This example also shows that cognate
verbs function morphosyntactically the same as verbs formed in other ways
(see note 9). Examples (29a–c) are causatives of transitive verbs, and (29d)
is an example of an intransitive verb that becomes ditransitive after causat-
ivization (the only example of this I have):
(29) (a) . . . mvsh¶ngshícèní s§ng dvkéòb, wa
mvsh¶ng-shí-cè-ní-s§ng dv-ké-ò-b wa
human-seed-son-du-loc caus-eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past say
. . . (and it is said he) fed the original people (the child’s flesh)
(b) à;ngí Vpeng s§ng laqten dvgwaòb
àng-í Vpeng-s§ng laqten dv-gwa-ò-b
3sg-agt Vpung-loc clothing caus-put.on/wear-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He made (or helped) Vpung put his clothes on
(c) à:ngí (àng s§ng) shvrc ma:nòb
àng-í àng-s§ng shv-rc m¶n-ò-b
3sg-agt 3sg-loc caus-carry continue-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He makes (him) continue carrying (not ‘send’ here, but ‘help carry’)
(d) à:ngí ngà s§ng Yangon dètan y§ngà
àng-í ngà-s§ng Yangon dB-è-vtan y§ng-à
3sg-agt 1sg-loc Yangon caus-n.1-visible tmyrs+1sg-3+tr.past
He showed me Yangon (Rangoon)
As mentioned above, generally the derived causative can be direct or
indirect, but if the causation is very indirect, such as in a situation where,
for example, one might be said to have ‘killed’ someone by not saving that
person when s/he was drowning, then the word for ‘cause to die’ (see (30a))
would not be used directly, but would be used in a paraphrastic construction
meaning ‘it was as if I killed him’, as in (30b):
(30) (a) dvsh™ng b™ngà
dv-shí-ng b™-ng-à
caus-die-1sg pfv-1sg-3+tr.past
I caused him to die (Direct action)
(b) ngàí dvshíò d¢ íá:mì
ngà-í dv-shí-ò d¢ í-ám-ì
1sg-agt caus-die-3+tr.n.past adv be-dir-3+intr.past
It is like I caused him to die
Dulong/Rawang 299
(b) The analytical causative/permissive The analytical (phrasal) causative
construction involves the use of the verb dvzUr ‘send’ after the main verb.
This construction only has an indirect causative sense, without direct involve-
ment of the causer, of having or letting someone do something, and the
causing/letting must be purposeful, not accidental, with the causee in control,
but the causee may be willing or unwilling.19
The verb involved can be
intransitive, transitive or ditransitive, and generally represents an action or
process that requires some effort rather than a state, for which the causative
prefix is more generally used. The analytical causative can also be used
together with the direct causative to express a double causative or permissive
and causative. Examples of the three causative possibilities are given in (31)
for intransitives and (32a–c) for transitives. The marking of noun phrases is
the same as that with the causative prefix: the causer (optionally) takes agentive
marking, and the causee takes the locative/allative marker (but see discussion
of reflexive causatives below); (32d–e) are examples with NPs to show their
marking.
(31) (a) dí dvzá:ròb
dí dvz∞r-ò-b
go send-3+tr.n.past-n.past
to let/make (him) go
(b) dvdìòb
dv-dì-ò-b
caus-go-3+tr.n.past-n.past
to make (him) go/walk
(c) dvdí dèzá:rò
dv-dí è-d§z∞r-ò
caus-go n.1-send-3+tr.n.past
You let him make him go
19
There is another way to express one type of having or letting someone do something, by use
of the prefix laq-. This construction is formally a subtype of the imperative, and so functions
differently from the analytical causative. Compare the two sentences below:
(1) Vpe:ngí b™ laqd™:rò
Vpeng-í b™ laq-d™r-ò
Vpung-agt rice indtv-pound-3+tr.n.past
Let Vpung pound the rice [imperative]
(2) Vpe:ngí b™ d™r dèzá:ròb
Vpeng-í b™ d™r è-dvz∞r-ò-b
Vpung-agt rice pound n.1-send-3+tr.n.past-n.past
You let Vpung pound the rice [non-imperative]
300 Randy J. LaPolla
(32) (a) ∞m dèzá:rò
∞m è-dvz∞r-ò
eat n.1-send-3+tr.n.past
Let him eat
(b) shvá:mòb
shv-∞m-ò-b
caus-eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He feeds him
(c) shv∞m dvzá:rò
shv-∞m dvz∞r-ò
caus-eat send-3+tr.n.past
Let him feed him
(d) à:ngí Vpeng s§ng megwàí dvrèrì w¶m dvzá:ròb
àng-í Vpeng-s§ng megwà-í dvrè-rì w¶m
3sg-agt Vpung-loc raincoat-inst luggage-pl cover
dvz∞r-ò-b
caus-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is making Vpung cover the luggage with the raincoat
(e) à:ngí àng s§ng sh§m l∞ng dvza:ròb
àng-í àng-s§ng sh§m l∞ng dvz∞r-ò-b
3sg-agt 3sg-loc knife hold caus-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is making him hold the knife
(c) The interaction between causatives and reflexives We have looked at
reflexives, and we have looked at causatives, and have seen one example
((22c)) of how they can be used together. In this section we discuss a few
more examples to see how the two derivations interact. Compare the three
examples in (33):
(33) (a) à:ngí laqten dvshúòb
àng-í laqten dv-she-ò-b
3sg-inst clothing caus-be.dry-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is drying clothes
(b) àng dvshúshìb
àng dv-she-shì-b
3sg caus-be.dry-r/m-n.past
He is drying himself
(c) àng laqten dvsheshìb
àng laqten dv-she-shì-b
3sg clothing caus-be.dry-r/m-n.past
He is drying his clothes
Dulong/Rawang 301
In (33a) we have a causative based on the intransitive verb sheb ‘be dry’, with
distinct A and O arguments, and it means simply that the person is drying
clothes on a line or somewhere else. In (33b) we have a causative-reflexive
with no other O argument and a high tone, so the meaning is that the person
is drying him or herself, for example by standing next to a fire. In (33c) an O
argument is mentioned, and the verb is followed by the reflexive/middle
marker and has a mid tone rather than a high tone, so what is being dried is
the clothing, and not the person (in a sense for the person), but the drying of
the clothes must be while the person is wearing them.
We saw above that adding the causative prefix to a transitive verb can
create an indirect causative where the causer causes (or helps) the causee
perform an action that is not directed at the causer, as in (34).
(34) à;ngí Vpeng s§ng laqten dvgwaòb
àng-í Vpeng-s§ng laqten dv-gwa-ò-b
3sg-agt Vpung-loc clothing caus-put.on/wear-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He made (or helped) Vpung put his clothes on
Considering only the use of the causative prefix and the reflexive/middle
marker, there is then a four-way contrast:
(a) gwá-ò-b ‘to put on’ or ‘to wear’
(b) gwa-shì-b ‘to wear’
(c) dv-gwa-ò-b ‘to dress someone’
(d) dv-gwa-shì-b ‘to get oneself dressed’ or ‘to cause/make some-
one else get dressed’
The causative form, as in (34), can also be made reflexive/middle, but
different dialects of Dulong/Rawang vary somewhat in what they allow. In
the Third Township Dulong dialect, if the reflexive/middle-marking suffix is
also added to the verb in this construction, there are two possible outcomes,
depending on whether another animate referent is mentioned or assumed in
the clause. Compare (35a) and (35b) (from LaPolla 1995b):
(35) (a) JD53
7FL s831
-guJ55
-y831
3sg cloth caus-put.on-r/m
He (causes himself to) put his clothes on
(b) JD53
JD53
-mei53
-le31
7FL s831
-guJ55
-y831
3sg 3sg-mother-loc cloth caus-put.on-r/m
He had his mother put his clothes on him
In (35a), as no other causee is mentioned or assumed, then the interpretation
is that the causer causes himself or herself to perform the action, in this case,
302 Randy J. LaPolla
put clothes on. In (35b), which could be said of a small child, an animate
causee is mentioned, and the reflexive/middle marker limits the interpretation
of the situation to one where the action performed by the causee (which has
been caused by the causer) is directed at or in some way affects the causer,
not necessarily the causee.
It is also possible to add the reflexive/middle marking to a periphrastic
causative construction, with the effect that the causer causes the causee to do
something to him or herself, as in (36), where it is Pung’s face that is to be
washed:
(36) JD53
-mi55
puD55
-(le31
) mB955
tyiL-y831
dz8:955
3sg-agt Pung-loc face wash-r/m cause
He made Pung wash his face
A second causative can also be added to a construction such as that in (36) if
the verb involved is a basic intransitive, as in (37):
(37) aD53
-mi55
puD55
-(le31
) 7FL55
s831
-kam55
-y831
dz8:955
3sg-agt Pung-loc cloth caus-dry-r/m cause
He made Pung dry his clothes (with Pung wearing them)
Here Pung is made to dry the clothes that he is wearing; the analytic causat-
ive expresses the idea that Pung is made to do something, while the inflec-
tional causative expresses the idea that Pung causes the clothes to become
dry, and the reflexive marker expresses the idea that the clothes being dried
are the ones being worn by Pung at the time of the action.
In the Mvtwang (Rawang) dialect, the equivalent of (35a) is possible (see
(38a)), but for the meaning where the causer has the causee do something to
the causer, the analytical causative must be used, as in (38b).
(38) (a) àng laqten dvgwashìb
àng laqten dv-gwa-shì-b
3sg clothing caus-wear-r/m-n.past
He’s putting his clothes on
(b) àng n¢ àngmèí laqten dvgwa dvz∞rshìb
àng n¢ àng-mè-í laqten dv-gwa dvz∞r-shì-b
3sg top 3sg-mother-agt clothing caus-wear send-r/m-n.past
He had his mother put his clothes on him
An interesting difference between the two dialects is that, while both dialects
can express the difference between the causer having the causee doing some-
thing to the causee and the causer having the causee doing something to the
Dulong/Rawang 303
causer, the way they express these two differs. In the Dulong dialect the
difference between the two types of causative is in the use of the analytical
causative with the reflexive/middle marker on the main verb to express the
former meaning (see (36)), and the causative prefix and the reflexive/middle
marker on a transitive verb for the latter meaning (see (35b)), while in the
Mvtwang dialect both meanings are expressed using the analytical causative
construction, with the difference being expressed by whether the reflexive/
middle marker appears on the main verb or on the causative auxiliary verb.
Compare (39a) (and also (38b)) with (39b):
(39) (a) àng n¢ Vpengí m∞r z∞l dvz∞rshìb
àng n¢ Vpeng-í m∞r z∞l dvz∞r-shì-b
3sg top Vpung-agt face wash send-r/m-n.past
He is making Vpung wash his face (causer’s face, not Vpung’s)
(b) à:ngí Vpengs§ng m∞r z∞lshì dvzá:ròb
àng-í Vpeng-s§ng m∞r z∞l-shì dvz∞r-ò-b
3sg-agt Vpung-loc face wash-r/m send-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is making Vpung wash his (Vpung’s) face
The marking of the NPs in the clause differs according to the placement of
the reflexive/middle marker. The NP representing the A argument of which-
ever verb is not marked by the reflexive/middle marker can take the agentive
marker, while the NP representing the A argument of a reflexive/middle-
marked verb cannot take the agentive marker, but may take the locative/
dative marker (and may take the topic marker if it is in initial position).
The equivalent of (37) in the Mvtwang dialect is (40):
(40) à:ngí Vpengs§ng laqteng dvsheshì dvzá:ròb
àng-í Vpeng-s§ng laqteng dv-she-shì dvz∞r-ò-b
3sg-agt Vpung-loc clothing caus-dry-r/m send-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is making Vpung dry his clothes (while Vpung is wearing them)
The causative can also be used with the reflexive in situations where the
reflexive/middle marker indicates a possessive relation between the A and the
O (see (17) above). In example (41), below, the reflexive/middle marker
indicates the fact that the book that Vpung is letting/making Vdeu hold
belongs to Vpung.
(41) Vpeng (n¢) Vd™í lègabok shvl¶ngshìb
Vpeng (n¢) Vd™-í lèga-bok shv-l¶ng-shì-b
Vpung top Vdeu-agt book-cl caus-hold-r/m-n.past
Vpung is letting Vdeu hold his book
304 Randy J. LaPolla
3.2.2 Applicative benefactive
The only applicative construction in Rawang is the benefactive construction
marked by the verbal suffix -a. This form cannot be used for causative or
other functions, such as for making an instrumental or locative phrase a direct
argument.20
It also cannot be used for comitatives.21
The benefactive can
apply to both transitives and intransitives. As adding the benefactive argu-
ment increases the transitivity of the verb, intransitive verbs become formally
transitive, though the original S does not take agentive marking. With trans-
itives the old O stays unmarked, and the new argument (the benefactive) is
marked with the benefactive postposition (dvpvt)22
or the locative/dative post-
position sVng (as with the other arguments, it may not be expressed as a noun
phrase if it is recoverable from the context or person marking). Examples
are given in (42a–c):
20
Nouns representing instruments are marked with the agentive–instrumental–adverbial suffix
(-í), and those representing locatives with one of the locative postpositions. For alternations of
the ‘spray/load’ type, different verbs would be used in Rawang:
(1) kvlángí mdddch§ng d§n dvz£ngòb
kvláng-í mddd-ch§ng d§n dv-z£ng-ò-b
hay-inst truck-cl fullness caus-full-3+tr.n.past-n.past
I fill the truck with hay
(2) mdddch§ngtaq kvláng d§n z∞ngòb
mddd-ch§ng-taq kvláng d§n z∞ng-ò-b
truck-cl-loc hay fullness put-3+tr.n.past-n.past
I put hay onto the truck
21
For comitatives, the comitative postposition nVng is used. How it is used, together with the
person marking on the verb, determine whether the added referent is treated as part of a single
direct argument of the verb or as a separate oblique argument:
(1) ngà àngn§ng rengb
ngà àng-n§ng reng-b
1sg 3sg-comit sit-n.past
I am sitting with him
(2) ngà n§ng àng tiqd¢ rúngshìb
ngà n§ng àng tiq-d¢ rúng-shì-b
1sg comit 3sg one-adv sit-du-n.past
He and I are sitting together
In (1), the comitative postposition appears after the second NP, and the verb agreement is
singular, while in (2) the comitative postposition comes between the two NPs and the verb
agreement is dual.
22
The benefactive postposition can sometimes be used without adding the benefactive suffix to
the verb, as in the following example:
yakdng ∞mpà n¢ vsh£mg™ dvpvt luqb
ya-kdng vmpà n¢ vsh£m-g™ dvpvt luq-b
this-cl rice top three-cl for be.enough-n.past
This bowl of rice is enough for three people
Dulong/Rawang 305
(42) (a) ngàí (àng-s§ng/dvpvt) sh™ng r™ngangòb
ngà-í àng-s§ng/dvpvt sh™ng rí-ng-a-ng-ò-b
1sg-agt 3sg-loc/for23
wood carry-1sg-ben-1sg-3+tr.n.past-n.past
I’m carrying wood for him
(b) àng dvpvt rvmáh∞ng shvláaòb
àng dvpvt rvmá-h∞ng shvlá-a-ò-b
3sg for field-field be.good-ben-3+tr.n.past-n.past
The fields are good for him
(c) àngtaq yadùng bèlaq mvnøklá téaòb
àng-taq ya-dùng bèlaq mvnøklá té-a-ò-b
3sg-loc this-cl upper.garment too be.big-ben-3+tr.n.past-n.past
This shirt is too big for him
If there is an auxiliary verb, such as mWnòb ‘to continue’ or dUngòb ‘to
finish’, then the benefactive suffix appears after the auxiliary verb, as in
(42d):
(42) (d) à:ngí rím¶naòb
àng-í rí-m¶n-a-ò-b
3sg-agt carry-continue-ben-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He continues carrying for someone else
In some cases the benefactive suffix has the meaning ‘instead of’, as in
(43). If the name of the person in whose place the action is performed needs
to be mentioned, then it is followed by either the benefactive postposition
(dvpvt) or by tvlb ‘exchange’.
(43) (Vpeng tvlb) àngs§ng ng¢tnangòb
Vpeng tvlb àng-s§ng ng¢t-a-ng-ò-b
Vpung exchange 3sg-loc mourn-ben-1sg-3+tr.n.past-n.past
I mourn him (instead of Vpung mourning him)
Although the suffix -a generally has the function of adding a benefactive
argument, in two cases from the Rawang Creation Story and one elicited
example the use of the suffix does not seem to have the meaning of doing
the action ‘for someone’, but more the sense of possession. These are given
in (44):
23
This postposition is only used for the benefactive sense of English for; the purposive sense of
for in, for example, ‘I work for money’ is expressed by rvt ‘because’ of:
g§msùng rvt b§nlì w¶ngb
g§msùng rvt b§nlì wa-ng-b
money for work do-1sg-n.past
I work for money
306 Randy J. LaPolla
(44) (a) sh¶ngbbí vgd vshvpma yà:ngà rvt vpú vgd vd∞mb, wab
sh¶ngbb-í vgd vshvp-a yàng-à rvt vpú vgd
all-agt head rub-ben tmyrs-3+tr.past because owl head
vd∞m-b wa-b
flat-n.past say-n.past
It is said that because everyone rubbed his head (rubbed him on the head
after he said something wise), the owl’s head is (now) flat
(b) vnd dvbøp h∞m g¢ èl¶maòb
vnd dvbøp h∞m g¢ è-l¶m-a-ò-b
bean rotten basket also n.1-step.on-ben-3+tr.n.past-n.past
You stepped on (someone’s) basket of fermented beans
(c) yabok lèga kag™ íaòb
ya-bok lèga ka-g™ í-a-ò-b
this-cl book q.pn-cl be-ben-3+tr.n.past-n.past
Who does this book belong to?
In (44a), vshvp ‘rub’ could have been used without the -a suffix and have
basically the same meaning. It seems that the benefactive suffix is used here
because the actual direct argument (which could be marked by the locative/
dative marker sVng) is vgd ‘head’, but the person/animal to whom the head
belongs is affected as well. In (44b), the benefactive is used to emphasize that
the deer stepped on someone else’s beans. In (44c) the benefactive suffix
makes the copula transitive, giving it the sense of ‘this belongs to’ rather than
‘this is’.
Aside from the applicative benefactive, there are other ways that a
benefactive sense is accomplished. We saw above that the reflexive/middle
marker in some cases has a benefactive sense, though it is unlike the applicative
benefactive in that it is transitivity-reducing and limited to cases where the
benefactive and the A are the same referent. The benefactive in that construc-
tion cannot take the benefactive postposition (dvpvt).
A third type of benefactive that is also a type of indirect reflexive developed
from the grammaticalization into auxiliary verbs of the two words for ‘to
eat’: Wm(ò)b ‘to eat (rice, vegetables)’, kb(ò)b ‘to eat (meat), bite’. These verbs
are used after the main verb for an indirect reflexive sense when the action
expressed by the main verb relates to doing something to or with a domestic
animal (kb) or non-animal food (Wm) that is eaten. The auxiliary verbs follow
the pattern of transitive for specific actions and intransitive for general or
regular, continuing actions (such as actions done for one’s livelihood; see §2,
and noted in (b) below). This is also a type of benefactive, but not applicative,
as it does not increase the transitivity of the clause. Following are examples
of this usage with different types of activities.
Dulong/Rawang 307
(45) (a) àng kwá tiqy£m róng kbb
àng kwá tiq-y£m róng kb-b
3sg bee one-hive put.in.hole eat-n.past24
He is raising bees for himself
(b) àng waq nakbb
àng waq na-kb-b
3sg pig feed-eat-n.past
He feeds the pigs for himself25
(c) àng nga mit kb-b
àng nga mit kb-b
3sg fish catch eat-n.past
He catches fish for himself
(d) àng lá¶mb
àng lá-¶m-b
3sg cut.down-eat-n.past
He cuts down (banana trees) to get the fruit for himself
(e) tì kvpm∞m á:mìb
tì kvp-∞m ám-ì-b
water get-eat dir-1pl-n.past
We go get water for ourselves
(f) ngàmaq yúng kvtná:mì
ngàmaq yúng kvt-¶m-ì
1pl vegetables grow-eat-1pl
We grow vegetables for ourselves
(g) àng ∞mpà w¶n¶mb
àng ∞mpà w¶n-¶m-b
3sg rice/food buy-eat-n.past
He is buying himself rice/food26
24
The larvae of the bees are eaten, so kbb and not Wmb is used; the verb róng ‘put in a hole’ is
used because bees are raised in a hole in a tree.
25
Compare this example with (45b):
à:ngí waq nakbòb
àng-í waq na-kb-ò-b
3sg-agt pig feed-eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is feeding the pigs (right now)
Here, as the main verb is used transitively (due to the fact that it is a specific action/event
rather than a general one), the auxiliary is also transitive.
26
Contrast this with the use of the reflexive/middle marker for the same situation, but involving
non-edible objects:
ngà laqten w¶nsh£ngb
ngà laqten w¶n-shì-ng-b
1sg clothing buy-r/m-1sg-n.past
I am buying myself clothes
308 Randy J. LaPolla
(h) àng n£ wa¶mb
àng n£ wa-¶m-b
3sg wine make/do-eat-n.past
He is making wine for himself
In terms of the benefactive sense, there is then a four-way contrast:
(a) kvtshìb ‘to grow something (not eaten) for oneself’ (reflexive)
(b) kvtn¶mb ‘to grow something (eaten) for oneself’ (food-benefactive)
(c) kvtnaòb ‘to grow something for someone else’ (benefactive)
(d) vkvtna kbb ‘to grow something for one another’ (reciprocal-
benefactive)
3.2.3 Transitivization by addition of final -t
A second form of transitivization is not productive. This is transitivization by
the addition of a final -t to an intransitive form. I have only one example of
this type, though I believe there should be other examples, as this form of
transitivization is found in closely related languages, such as Jinghpaw, and
is an old Sino-Tibetan trait (see Dai and Xu 1992; Benedict 1972: 98–102;
Michailovsky 1985; van Driem 1988).
(46) (a) ng¢-b ‘to cry’ > ngøt-ò-b ‘to cry over/mourn someone’
(b) ngàí àng ngøtnòb
ngà-í àng ngø-t-ò-b
1sg-agt 3sg cry-transitivizer-3+tr.n.past-n.past
I am crying over (mourning) him
3.2.4 Other ways of increasing transitivity
There are two other ways that the transitivity of a verb can be increased. One
is by not using the reflexive/middle marker on a verb for which the reflexive/
middle form is the statistically unmarked form. This has the same effect as
the applicative in some other languages. For example, vhTshìb ‘laugh’ has the
middle as its statistically unmarked form, even though it has the intransitivizing
prefix and the reflexive/middle-marking suffix, while the formally unmarked
(but statistically marked) form hTòb ‘laugh at someone’ (e.g. à:ngí àngsVng
hTòb ‘He is laughing at him’) is statistically and semantically more marked.
In situations where there is an adversative sense of something happening to
someone that is beyond their control, the verb kéòb ‘eat (meat), bite’ can be
used, often with the causative prefix as well, and this can make the sentence
partly transitive, as in (47a–c). It is only partly transitive because there is no
A argument that can take the agentive marker (though in some cases there is
an instrumental argument, as in (47c)), as the cause of the action is generally
Dulong/Rawang 309
unknown. Semantically then, it is like a passive in emphasizing affectedness
and lack of control, but syntactically it is not valency-reducing, the way
passives are.
(47) (a) àng dvgøq kéòb
àng dv-gøq ké-ò-b
3sg caus-hiccup eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He’s hiccuping (uncontrollably) (normally àng gøqb)
(b) (pòyaq) chapgá (gá) c§mré shvng™ kéòb
pòyaq chapgá gá c§mré shv-ng™ ké-ò-b
all.night morning bright child caus-cry eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
The children are / have been crying (all night) until morning (light)
(c) àng vléí mvd£ng kéòb
àng vlé-í mvd£ng ké-ò-b
3sg vlé-inst stuck eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He has vlé stuck in his throat (vlé is a kind of rough food)
This usage is actually a subtype of a more general usage of the verb ké ∼ kb
‘eat (meat), bite’ for an adversative sense shown in (48). It can be used for
any situation where the speaker has a negative attitude towards the referent
involved in the action/situation or the action/situation itself. This can be used
to show empathy with someone suffering a negative situation, and so is said
to be more polite in some instances, such as (48d), and also has something of
a passive sense, emphasizing affectedness (e.g. (48a), where the word order
marks the receiver of the scolding as the topic). In these cases the form of the
verb is always transitive.
(48) (a) àng(s§ng) vpèí ng¶n kéòb
àng-s§ng v-pè-í ng¶n ké-ò-b
3sg-loc 1-father-agt scold eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He is being scolded by my father
(b) àng svmcí gáng kéòb
àng svmc-í gáng ké-ò-b
3sg fire-inst hot eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He’s hot from the fire
(c) à:ngí pàg¢ mà-shvb£n kéò
àng-í pà-g¢ mà-shv-b£n ké-ò
3sg-agt thing-also neg-caus-be.possible eat-3+tr.n.past
He’s incapable of doing anything
(d) àngs§ng tvp ké b™à
àng-s§ng tvp ké b™-à
3sg-loc be.arrested eat pfv-3+tr.past
He was arrested
310 Randy J. LaPolla
(e) àng n¢ n£ mvnøklá aq dárì rvt (n£í) vrù kéòb
àng n¢ n£ mvnøklá aq dár-ì rvt n£-í
3sg top wine too drink tmhrs-3+intr.past because wine-inst
vrù ké-ò-b
drunk eat-3+tr.n.past-n.past
He drank too much and so is/got drunk (from the wine)
4 Conclusions
We have seen that in Rawang, unlike in many other Sino-Tibetan languages,
the coding of transitivity and the use of transitive vs intransitive constructions
to convey different meanings are important aspects of the grammar. Aside
from the different uses of the two forms of ambitransitive verbs, there are two
morphological means for decreasing the valency of clauses, and six means
for increasing their valency. We have also seen that a speaker may employ
several different valency-increasing and valency-decreasing morphemes in
the same clause to achieve different meanings through their interaction.
References
Barnard, J.T.O. 1934. A handbook of the Rawang dialect of the Nung language.
Rangoon: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery.
Benedict, P.K. 1972. Sino-Tibetan: a conspectus (J.A. Matisoff, contributing ed.).
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Dai Qingxia, Huang Bufan, Fu Ailan, Renzengwangmu and Liu Juhuang. 1991. Zàng-
Miunyy shíwy zhxng (Fifteen Tibeto-Burman languages). Beijing: Yanshan
Chubanshe.
Dai Qingxia and Xu Xijian. 1992. Jwngpdyy yyfu (The grammar of the Chinghpaw
language). Beijing: Zhongyang Minzu Xueyuan Chubanshe.
Driem, G. van. 1988. ‘Reflexes of the Tibeto-burman *-t directive suffix in Dumi
Rai’, pp. 157–67 of Prosodic analysis and Asian linguistics: to honour R.K.
Sprigg, ed. D. Bradley, E.J.A. Henderson and M. Mazaudon, Pacific Linguistics
C 104. Canberra: Australian National University.
Kemmer, S. 1993. The middle voice, Typological studies in language 23. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
LaPolla, R.J. 1994. ‘Parallel grammaticalizations in Tibeto-Burman: evidence of Sapir’s
“drift”’, Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area 17.61–80.
1995a. ‘On the utility of the concepts of markedness and prototypes in understanding
the development of morphological systems’, Bulletin of the Institute of History
and Philology (Academia Sinica) 66.1149–85.
1995b. ‘Reflexive and middle marking in Dulong/Rawang.’ Paper presented to the
28th International Conference on Sino-Tibetan Languages and Linguistics.
Dulong/Rawang 311
Charlottesville, Va., 6–9 October. To appear in Himalayan linguistics, ed. G. van
Driem. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
1996. ‘Middle voice marking in Tibeto-Burman languages.’ Pan-Asian linguistics:
proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Languages and Linguistics.
Vol. V. Thailand: Mahidol University.
Liu Juhuang. 1988. ‘DúlóngyV dòngcí yánjie (Studies on the Dulong verb)’. Yyyán
yánjie 1988.1.176–91.
Lo Ch’ang-p’ei. 1945. ‘A preliminary study of the Trung language of Kung Shan’,
Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies 8:343–8.
Matisoff, J.A. 1976. ‘Lahu causative constructions: case hierarchies and the morpho-
logy/syntax cycle in a Tibeto-Burman perspective’, pp. 413–42 of The syntax of
causative constructions, ed. M. Shibatani. New York: Academic Press.
Mei Tsu-lin. 1989. ‘The causative and denominative functions of the *s- prefix in Old
Chinese.’ Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Sinology. Taipei:
Academia Sinica.
Michailovsky, B. 1985. ‘Tibeto-Burman dental suffixes: evidence from Limbu
(Nepal)’, pp. 334–43 of Linguistics of the Sino-Tibetan area: the state of the art.
Papers presented to Paul K. Benedict for his 71st birthday, ed. G. Thurgood,
J.A. Matisoff and D. Bradley, Pacific Linguistics C 87. Canberra: Australian
National University.
Morse, R.H. 1963. ‘Phonology of Rawang’, Anthropological Linguistics 5.17–41.
1965. ‘Syntactic frames for the Rvwang (Rawang) verb’, Lingua 15.338–69.
Sun Hongkai. 1982. Dúlóngyy jiunzhì (A sketch of the Dulong language). Beijing:
Minzu Chubanshe.
1988. ‘Notes on a new language: Anong’, Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman Area
11.27–63.
312 Mengistu Amberber
9 Valency-changing and valency-
encoding devices in Amharic
MENGISTU AMBERBER
1 Introduction
Amharic belongs to the Ethio-Semitic subgroup of the Semitic language fam-
ily.1
As a typical Semitic language, it employs root-and-pattern morphology
as its main word-formation strategy.2
It is a nominative–accusative language
with a mixture of head- and dependent-marking. The verb shows subject
(S/A) and object / indirect object (O/IO) agreement. Subject agreement is
obligatory, whereas object and indirect object agreement is often optional.
Accusative case depends on definiteness: only definite object NPs take the
accusative suffix. In fact, definite object NPs must take the accusative suffix.
Subject NPs are not marked for case. The indirect object is marked by a
prepositional particle which also marks the beneficiary peripheral argument.
Number distinction (singular and plural) is made in all persons (1st, 2nd
and 3rd), whereas gender distinction (masculine and feminine) is made in
2nd and 3rd person singular only.
1
I would like to thank Sasha Aikhenvald, Bob Dixon, Debbie Hill and two anonymous referees
for their useful suggestions and comments on an earlier draft of this chapter. I would also like
to thank the participants of the International Workshop on Valency-changing Derivations,
Canberra, 1997, for their insightful comments and questions. Of course, I am responsible for
remaining shortcomings.
2
root-and-pattern morphology is a typical Semitic word-formation strategy. It is basically
characterized by a root which consists of consonantal radicals and a pattern which comprises
vowels. In general, the roots encode lexical meaning, whereas the patterns encode grammatical
meaning. For example, the verb sEbbErE ‘he broke (tr)’ consists of the triradical root √sbr
‘break’, and the pattern C1BC2C2BC3B encodes the perfect conjugation with the 3rd person
masculine. The infinitive of √sbr ‘break’ is mEsbEr ‘to break’ which is formed by attaching
the prefix mE- to the pattern -C1C2BC3. Traditionally, Amharic verbs are classified into three
morphological (conjugational) classes – Type A, Type B and Type C – on the basis of the
vocalic pattern of the stem and gemination: whether or not the 2nd radical of the root is
geminated throughout the conjugation (cf. Leslau 1995: 280ff.).
Amharic 313
The language makes a distinction between basic intransitive and transitive
verbs. The relevant transitivity classes are listed in (1):3
(1) (a) Intransitive
(i) Unaccusative k'omB ‘stand’
(ii) Unergative Q'BffBrB ‘dance’
(b) Transitive sBbbBrB ‘break (tr)’
(c) Ambitransitive bBlla ‘eat’
(d) Extended Transitive sBt't'B ‘give’
There are two sets of intransitive verbs which I will refer to as ‘unaccusative’
and ‘unergative’. The unaccusative class includes verbs which encode state
(e.g. k'omE ‘stand’), change of state (e.g. k'EllEt'E ‘melt’) and motion (e.g.
mEt't'a ‘come’); the unergative class includes verbs which encode activities
such as Q'EffErE ‘dance’. There is a small set of ambitransitive (or ‘labile’)
verbs of the S = A subtype which almost exclusively contains ingestive verbs
such as bElla ‘eat’ and t'Et't'E ‘drink’. Extended transitive (or ditransitive)
verbs which have three core arguments include verbs such as sEt't'E ‘give’.
In addition, Amharic has copula clauses which express equation, possession,
attribution and identity, among other things.
In this chapter, I will discuss valency-changing and valency-encoding
devices of Amharic. Essentially, my aim is to make three main points. First,
I will show that the lexical semantic distinction between unergatives and
unaccusatives is crucial in the organization of transitivity classes in Amharic.
Second, I will argue that the presence of an external causer in bringing
about an event is an important parameter in determining whether a verb can
have the anticausative form or not.
Third, I will demonstrate that at a descriptive level a distinction should be
made between two types of morphosyntactic devices: those which change
valency and those which encode valency.
The chapter is organized as follows. In §2 and §3, argument-reducing and
argument-adding derivations are discussed respectively. In §4, the reflexive and
reciprocal derivations are briefly examined. In §5 valency-encoding devices and
bound verbs are discussed. In §6, the valency of complex predicates is addressed.
2 Argument-reducing derivations
There are three types of argument-reducing derivations which are derived by
attaching the detransitivizer prefix tE- (t- before a vowel), to a basic transitive
3
The citation form of the verb is inflected in the 3rd person masculine perfect which is the
unmarked conjugation.
314 Mengistu Amberber
stem (see also Demoz 1964). They are: (a) the passive, (b) the anticausative
and (c) the reflexive. In this section, the derivation of the passive and the
anticausative is discussed. As a reflexive clause can also be derived without
the use of the detransitivizer prefix, the derivation of the reflexive is dis-
cussed in §4 with that of the reciprocal.
2.1 Passive
transitive passive
(2) (a) k'orrBt'B ‘cut’ tB-k'orrBt'B ‘be cut’
(b) mBtta ‘hit’ tB-mBtta ‘be hit’
(c) =BnBbba ‘build’ tB-=BnBbba ‘be built’
In the passive, the O argument of the transitive verb becomes S and the A
argument is either omitted or placed in a prepositional phrase (headed by bE-
‘by’) as shown in (3b):
(3) (a) aster =BmBd-u-n k'orrBt'B-QQ
A. rope- def-acc cut+perf-3f
Aster cut the rope
(b) =BmBd-u [bB-aster] tB-k'orrBt'B
rope-def (by-A.) pass-cut+perf+3m
The rope was cut (by Aster)
Typically, the passive does not apply to intransitive verbs:
intransitive passive
(4) (a) hedB ‘go’ *tB-hedB
(b) tBñña ‘sleep’ *tB-tBñña
(c) mBt't'a ‘come’ *tB-mBt't'a
However, a passive-like derivation of intransitive verbs is acceptable with a
special shade of meaning: it expresses irony or sarcasm (cf. Leslau 1995:
467). Thus, consider the following example:
(5) wBdB bet tB-hedB
to home pass-go+perf+3m
So you are going home!
The sarcastic passive has a special rising intonation and is often employed to
address the 2nd person. Note that the verb has the default 3rd person mascu-
line agreement.
Amharic 315
2.2 Anticausative
transitive anticausative
(6) (a) sBbbBrB ‘break (tr)’ tB-sBbbBrB ‘break (intr)’
(b) kBffBtB ‘open (tr)’ tB-kBffBtB ‘open (intr)’
(c) bBttBnB ‘scatter (tr)’ tB-bBttBnB ‘scatter (intr)’
The anticausative simply derives intransitive verbs: the O argument of the
transitive verb becomes S and there is no A (either demoted or implicitly
implied).
The distinction between the passive and the anticausative can be subtle as
the same formal strategy (the detransitivizer prefix t(E)-) is used to derive
both constructions. Thus, for instance, the verb tE-sEbbErE, like all of the
anticausative verbs in (6), can have either a passive reading (‘be broken’) or
an anticausative reading (‘break (intr)’). However, it is possible to force a
passive reading syntactically as in (7):
(7) t'Brmus-u bB-lIx-u tB-sBbbBrB
bottle-def by-boy- def pass-break+perf+3m
The bottle was broken (by the boy)
In (7), the presence of the agent (occurring in the peripheral ‘by’-phrase)
forces the passive reading alone. Furthermore, it is possible to force the
passive reading by placing agent-oriented adverbial phrases like bE-t'pnpk'k'ak'e
‘with care, with attention’:
(8) (a) bBr-u tB-kBffBtB
door-def antc/pass-open+perf+3m
The door opened / was opened
(b) bBr-u bB-t'InIk'k'ak'e tB-kBffBtB
door-def with-care/attention pass-open+perf+3m
The door was opened with care
The question of which verbs allow the anticausative derivation and which
verbs do not largely depends on the notion of external causation (for a similar
notion, see Levin and Rappaport 1995). The relevant generalization is stated
in (9):
(9) If an event encoded by a transitive predicate can be conceptualized as taking
place without the intervention of an external causer, the event can be cast in
the anticausative.
Thus, by examining the lexical semantic content of the basic verb, it is
generally possible to predict whether the anticausative is possible or not.
Consider the verbs in (10):
316 Mengistu Amberber
(10) (a) sBnBt't'Bk'B ‘split’ tB-sBnBt't'Bk'B ‘split (intr)’
(b) k'BddBdB ‘tear’ tB-k'BddBdB ‘tear (intr)’
The events encoded by the transitive verbs sEnEt't'Ek'E ‘split’ and k'EddEdE
‘tear’ have an external causer that brings about the event. However, the
events can also come about without the intervention of an external causer.
For instance, consider the verb sEnEt't'Ek'E ‘split’ in (11):
(11) (a) anas'i-w t'awla-w-In sBnBt't'Bk'B
carpenter-def plank-def-acc split+perf+3m
The carpenter split the plank
(b) t'awla-w tB-sBnBt't'Bk'B
plank-def antc/pass-split+perf+3m
The plank split / was split
The event of ‘a plank splitting’ can come about by an external causer as in
(11a), or can happen naturally, for example due to excessive heat. Thus,
(11b) can have an anticausative or a passive reading. On the other hand,
consider the semantically close verb fEllEt'E in (12), which refers to the split-
ting of wood as a result of using an instrument such as an axe (it also has the
meaning ‘chop (wood)’ and ‘quarry (stone)’):
(12) (a) anas'i-w t'awla-w-In fBllBt'B
carpenter-def plank-def-acc split+perf+3m
The carpenter split the plank
(b) t'awla-w tB-fBllBt'B
plank-def pass-split+perf+3m
The plank was split
The event encoded by the verb sEnEt't'Ek'E ‘split’ differs from that of fEllEt'E
‘split/chop’ in one crucial respect: the latter cannot come about without an
external causer and as a result it cannot be cast in the anticausative.
The same contrast pertains to a number of verbs in other languages such as
English. For instance, as pointed out by Haspelmath (1993: 93), in English
the event encoded by cut requires an ‘agent-oriented meaning component’
(usually involving a sharp object as an instrument). On the other hand, the
event encoded by the verb tear can occur without the involvement of an
external causer. Thus, the intransitive (‘inchoative’) form of the verb cut is
ungrammatical – e.g. *the cloth cut – as opposed to the intransitive form of
the verb tear – e.g. the pants tore.
Most verbs of creation such as s'afE ‘write’ and =EnEbba ‘build’ do
not allow the anticausative interpretation. This follows directly from the
Amharic 317
assumption that such verbs require the involvement of an external causer.
Thus, tE-s'afE can only have the passive meaning ‘be written’.
It appears that if a verb allows the anticausative, it also allows the passive
but not vice versa. Hence: anticausative implies passive.
3 Argument-adding derivations
3.1 Causatives
There are two types of causatives: (a) morphological causatives and (b) the
periphrastic causative. In morphological causatives, explicit derivational affixes
are employed to increase the valency of a verb: a one-place predicate becomes
a two-place predicate and a two-place predicate becomes a three-place pre-
dicate. In the periphrastic causative an independent causative verb is used to
introduce a causer argument. In addition, there are lexical causatives (also
referred to as the ‘suppletive’ causative (cf. Haspelmath 1993)), i.e., verbs
whose intransitive and transitive forms are morphologically unrelated.
Typical examples of lexical causatives in Amharic are presented in (13):
(13) (a) wBddBk'B ‘fall’ t'alB ‘drop (tr)’
(b) motB ‘die’ =BddBlB ‘kill’
In this chapter, I will not discuss lexical causatives as they are not relevant
to the issue of valency-changing derivations. The following two sub-sections
will deal with morphological and periphrastic causatives.
3.1.1 Morphological causatives
There are two types of productive causative prefixes. They are: (a) the causat-
ive a- and (b) the causative as-, exemplified in (14a) and (14b) respectively:
(14) (a) mBt't'a ‘come’ a-mBt't'a ‘bring’
(b) k'w
BrrBt'B ‘cut’ as-k'w
BrrBt'B ‘make x cut y’
The distribution of the two causative prefixes is, by and large, predictable
from the lexical semantics of the basic verb.
(a) Causative a- In general, the causative a- attaches only to unaccusatives,
as in (15), and not to unergatives as in (16):
(15) (a) k'omB ‘stand (intr)’ a-k'omB ‘stand (tr)’
(b) k'BllBt'B ‘melt (intr)’ a-k'BllBt'B ‘melt (tr)’
318 Mengistu Amberber
(16) (a) Q'BffBrB ‘dance’ * a-Q'BffBrB
(b) sak'B ‘laugh’ * a-sak'B
More examples of unaccusative verbs (including verbs of state, change of
state, and motion) which take the causative a- are presented in (17–19). The
category labels for the verb classes are taken from Levin’s (1993) study of
English verb classes.
(17) Verbs of Inherently Directed Motion4
=Bbba ‘enter (intr)’ a-=Bbba ‘insert’
wBrrBdB ‘descend’ a-wBrrBdB ‘bring down’
wBt't'a ‘exit’ a-wBt't'a ‘take out’
(18) Verbs of Emission
(a) light nBddBdB ‘burn (intr)’
a-nBddBdB ‘burn (tr)’
(b) sound fBnBdda ‘explode (intr)’
a-fBnBdda ‘explode (tr)’
(c) smell t'BnBbba ‘stink (intr)’
a-t'BnBbba ‘stink (tr)’
(d) substance dBmma ‘bleed (intr)’
a-dBmma ‘bleed (tr)’
(19) Verbs of Existence and Appearance
norB ‘exist’ a-norB ‘let exist, put’
bBk'k'BlB ‘grow’ a-bBk'k'BlB ‘grow (tr)’
In the causative a-, the causee does not have control over the event (see
Dixon’s discussion of the semantic parameters of causatives in chapter 2 of
this volume). The causer acts directly and may achieve the result volitionally
or non-volitionally. The causer is always involved in the event and can be
initiating a natural process or may exert effort.
The alignment of arguments in the causative a- is quite straightforward: the
newly introduced argument and the old S are realized as A and O respectively:
(20) (a) k'Ibe-w k'BllBt'B
butter-def melt+perf+3m
The butter melted
(b) aster k'Ibe-w-In a-k'BllBt'B-QQ
A. butter-def-acc caus-melt+perf+3f
Aster melted the butter
4
The reader should keep in mind that the meaning given in the gloss of a given verb is only the
central meaning amongst a number of possible related meanings. For instance, the verb a-
=Ebba, which is the causative of =Ebba ‘enter’, can have a range of meanings including: ‘bring
in’, ‘insert’, ‘take a spouse (in marriage)’, among others.
Amharic 319
As already mentioned, the causative a- does not attach to unergatives, nor
to transitives. However, there is one systematic exception to this generaliza-
tion. A small class of transitive verbs which express ingestion, such as bElla
‘eat’ and t'Et't'E ‘drink’, can take the causative a-. Consider the verb bElla
‘eat’ in (21):
(21) (a) lIx-u dabbo bBlla
child-def bread eat+perf+3m
The child ate some bread
(b) aster lIx-u-n dabbo a-bBlla-QQ-Iw
A. child-def-acc bread caus-eat+perf-3f-3mO
Aster fed the child some bread
Notice in (21b) that when the verb bElla ‘eat’ takes the causative a-, it essenti-
ally becomes a three-place predicate with the meaning ‘feed’ (or ‘give to eat’).
Interestingly, these same verbs exhibit special behaviour in a number of
languages including Berber (Guerssel 1986: 36ff.), Chichewa (Baker 1988:
461n.31) and Malayalam (Mohanan 1983: 105–6).
(b) Causative as- The causative as- has a wider distribution – it applies to
transitive and (both unaccusative and unergative) intransitive verbs:
(22) (a) k'w
BrrBt'B ‘cut’ as-k'w
BrrBt'B ‘cause to cut’
(b) mBt't'a ‘come’ as-mBt't'a ‘cause to come’
(c) Q'BffBrB ‘dance’ as-Q'BffBrB ‘make dance’
With intransitive verbs, the new argument introduced by the causative as-
becomes the A of the derived verb, and the old S of the intransitive verb
becomes O:
(23) (a) aster Q'BffBrB-QQ
A. dance+perf-3f
Aster danced
(b) lBmma aster-In as-Q'BffBr-at
L. A.-acc caus-dance+perf+3m-3fO
Lemma made Aster dance
In the case of transitive verbs, the new argument introduced by the causat-
ive as- becomes the A of the derived verb and the old A becomes the new O.
The O of the basic verb is either retained or omitted:
(24) (a) aster sI=a-w-In k'orrBt'B-QQ
A. meat- def-acc cut+perf-3f
Aster cut the meat
320 Mengistu Amberber
(b) lBmma aster-In (sI=a) as-k'orrBt'-at
L. A.-acc (meat) caus-cut+ perf+3m-3fO
Lemma made Aster cut (some meat)
When the O of the basic verb is retained, it is often realized as indefinite,
due to a tendency to avoid double-accusative NPs (though this does not mean
that a clause with double-accusatives is ungrammatical). Note that the causee
is always definite and thus obligatorily marked as accusative.
In some cases, omitting the object of the basic verb may cause ambiguity.
For instance, in (24b), if the NP sp=a ‘meat’ is omitted, the construction could
mean either: (a) ‘he made her cut (something unspecified)’ or (b) ‘he had her
be cut (by someone)’.5
The causer of the causative as- may act directly or indirectly, volitionally
or non-volitionally. Although typically the causer of the causative as- exerts
force, it need not be coercive. However, the causer itself is often not involved
in the event. This property of the causer of the causative as- is in marked con-
trast to that of the causative a- where the causer is always directly involved in
the event. Consider the verb wEt't'a ‘exit/leave’ in (25):
(25) (a) aster wBt't'a-QQ
A. exit+perf-3f
Aster exited
(b) lBmma aster-In a-wBt't'a-t
L. A.-acc caus-exit+perf+3m-3fO
Lemma took Aster out (as in ‘out of the house’)
(c) lBmma aster-In as-wBt't'a-t
L. A.-acc caus-exit+perf+3m-3fO
Lemma made Aster exit
Lemma let Aster exit
In (25b), with the causative a-, the causer is directly involved in the event,
e.g. the causer physically transports the causee. In (25c), with the causative
as-, the causer is not directly involved in the event, e.g. the causer can simply
issue an order.
Notice that the causative as- can also have a permissive interpretation
(‘let’) where the causer is conceptualized as helping the causee, or at least not
obstructing the efforts of the causee.
5
It is possible to analyse the causative as- as a three-place predicate (as argued in Alsina 1992
for Chichewa) with an agent, a causee (an affected object) and an event, where the causee is
also an argument of the basic verb. The causee can be identified either with the subject or the
object of the basic verb. It is when the causee is identified with the object of the basic verb that
the subject takes an oblique position.
Amharic 321
3.1.2 Periphrastic causative
The periphrastic causative is formed by the independent verb adErrE=E ‘make’.
The semantically basic verb is marked by a complementizer particle:
(26) aster lBmma wBdB bet Ind-i-hed adBrrB=B-QQ
A. L. to home comp-imperf+3m-go+imperf make+perf-3f
Aster made Lemma go home
The periphrastic can apply to both intransitive and transitive verbs and its
meaning is often indistinguishable from the causative as-. However, one
important difference between the periphrastic causative and the causative
as- is seen with negation. Consider the examples in (27):
(27) (a) kasa aster Ind-a-tI-hed adBrrB=B
K. A. comp-neg-imperf+3f-go+imperf make+perf+3m
Kasa prevented Aster from going (lit. he made her not go)
(b) kasa aster-In al-as-hed-at-Imm
K. A.-acc neg-caus-go+perf+3m-3fO-neg
Kasa did not make Aster go
As (27a) shows, the periphrastic causative allows for the polarity of the
embedded verb to be different from that of the matrix verb. Thus, negation can
have scope over the embedded verb alone. In the causative as-, on the other
hand, negation has scope over the entire clause.
3.2 Applicative
Amharic has one type of construction which can be described as applicative.
Consider the examples in (28–29):
(28) aster bB-mBt'rB=iya-w dBxx t'BrrB=B-QQ-[Ibb-Bt]
A. with-broom-def doorway sweep+perf-3f-(with-3mO)
Aster swept a doorway with the broom
(29) aster mBt'rB=iya-w-In dBxx t'BrrB=B-QQ-Ibb-Bt
A. broom-def-acc doorway sweep+perf-3f-with-3mO
Aster swept a doorway with the broom
(lit. Aster, the broom, she swept a doorway with it)
In (28), the instrumental NP occurs with the prepositional element bE-
‘with’ (which also has a range of different prepositional meanings including
‘by’, ‘at’, ‘on’). The verb is optionally marked by the form -bb-, which is
similar to the prepositional form bE-, followed by a pronominal agreement
suffix which cross-references the instrumental NP (see also Haile 1970). In
this construction, the form -bb- and the pronominal suffix that follows it
occur as a unit, i.e., one cannot occur without the other.
322 Mengistu Amberber
Notice that (29) is different from (28) in two important ways: (a) the
instrumental NP occurs without the prepositional particle bE- and is marked
by the accusative suffix, and (b) the prepositional suffix -bb- and the pro-
nominal agreement suffix that follows it are no longer optional. Although the
term ‘applicative’ has not been used in the description of Amharic, it is used
here to refer to constructions such as (29) where an erstwhile peripheral argu-
ment occurs as a core argument. For ease of exposition, the prepositional suffix
in (29) will be glossed as the applicative marker as in (30):
(30) aster mBt'rB=iya-w-In dBxx t'BrrB=B-QQ-Ibb-Bt
A. broom-def-acc doorway sweep+perf-3f-applic-3mO
Aster swept a doorway with the broom
The applicative is quite productive in that it applies to both transitive and
intransitive verbs as the following examples show:
(31) (a) k'w
BrrBt'B ‘cut’ k'w
BrrBt'B-bb-Bt ‘cut with/on’
(b) sak'B ‘laugh’ sak'B-bb-Bt ‘laugh at’
(c) wBddBk'B ‘fall’ wBddBk'B-bb-Bt ‘fall on’
Thus, the applicative derivation applies to a range of peripheral arguments
including instrument, malefactive and locative. There is another prepositional
suffix, namely -ll- (similar to the prepositional particle lE- ‘for’, ‘to’), which
often occurs with beneficiary arguments as in (32):
(32) aster-In fBrrBdB-ll-at
A.-acc judge+perf+3m-applic-3fO
He judged in Aster’s favour (i.e., he acquitted her)
In general, the applicative marker -ll- marks a beneficiary argument, thus
paradigmatically contrasting with -bb- which can mark the malefactive. This
contrast can be seen by comparing (32) with (33):
(33) aster-In fBrrBdB-bb-at
A.-acc judge+perf+3m-applic-3fO
He judged to the disadvantage of Aster (i.e., he convicted her)
The applicative marker -bb- has a wider distribution, marking the instrumental,
locative and malefactive arguments, whereas -ll- is generally restricted to bene-
factive arguments.
There is an interesting interaction between the malefactive applicative and
the two types of intransitive verbs. Consider the unergative verb sak'E ‘laugh’
in (34):
Amharic 323
(34) (a) astemari-wa bB-lIx-u sak'B-QQ
teacher-def+f at-boy-def laugh+perf-3f
The teacher laughed at the boy
(b) astemari-wa lIx-u-n sak'B-QQ-Ibb-Bt
teacher-def+f boy-def-acc laugh+perf-3f-applic-3mO
The teacher laughed at the boy
In (34a), the malefactive argument occurs with its prepositional marking.
In (34b), which is the applicative construction, the malefactive argument
is marked as accusative, as expected. Now, consider the unaccusative verb
tEsEbbErE ‘break (intr)’ in (35):
(35) (a) *t'Brmus-u bB-aster tB-sBbbBrB
bottle-def on-A. antc-break+perf+3m
(for ‘the bottle broke to the disadvantage of Aster’)
(OK as: ‘the bottle was broken by Aster’)
(b) aster-(In) t'Brmus-u tB-sBbbBrB-bb-at
A.-(acc) bottle-def antc-break+perf+3m-applic-3fO
The bottle broke to the disadvantage of Aster
Notice that there are two important differences between (34) and (35). First,
unlike the malefactive of the unergative verb sak'E ‘laugh’, the malefactive of
the unaccusative verb tEsEbbErE ‘break (intr)’ cannot occur in the preposi-
tional phrase (marked by bE-) as shown in (35a). Note that the construction
is grammatical only as a passive, i.e., if the preposition bE- is interpreted
as ‘by’.
Second, the malefactive argument occurs with an (optional) accusative case
and occupies a clause-initial position as shown in (35b). If the malefactive argu-
ment of the unaccusative verb does not occur in a clause-initial position, the
construction becomes ungrammatical as shown in (36):
(36) *t'Brmus-u aster-(In) tB-sBbbBrB-bb-at
bottle-def A.-(acc) antc-break+perf+3m-applic-3fO
This structural pattern of unaccusative verbs is quite productive. In fact, it
occurs even with unaccusatives which do not normally take any referential
argument. Consider the verb mEzzE ‘become night’ (or ‘become dark’) in
(37):
(37) aster-(In) mBUUB-bb-at
A.-(acc) become.night+perf+3m-applic-3fO
It became night (it got dark) to the disadvantage of Aster
(lit. Aster, it became night on her)
324 Mengistu Amberber
Normally, the verb mEzzE ‘become night’ does not take any referential argu-
ment. However, through the applicative construction, the event can be cast as
adversely affecting someone as shown in (37).
Hence, the question is: what is the cause of the variation between the two
intransitive predicates? A detailed analysis of the phenomenon is beyond the
scope of this chapter. However, I believe that the key to the solution resides
in the lexical semantics and argument structure of the predicates in question.
The malefactive argument has a different conceptual status depending on the
lexical semantics of the basic predicate along the following lines:
(38) (a) The malefactive of unergatives is an implicit argument which specifies the
stimulus of the event.
(b) The malefactive of unaccusatives is an experiencer (‘undergoer’) argument.
Thus, consider the event encoded by the verb sak'E ‘laugh’. When some-
one laughs, there is often a stimulus for the event. I suggest that the malefactive
argument specifies that stimulus. On the other hand, with unaccusatives, the
malefactive is simply an experiencer (or ‘undergoer’) argument.
The difference between the malefactive of the two predicates (unergative
vs unaccusative) can be highlighted by content questions:
(39) (a) Who was she laughing at?
(b) Who was affected by the breaking of the bottle?
If you see somebody laughing, you can ask the question in (39a). This ques-
tion is normal, because the malefactive argument is implicitly part of the
lexical semantics of the basic verb – it is an argument which elaborates the
activity event.
On the other hand, if you see a bottle breaking, the question in (39b) is
quite odd, at least without prior background information. This is so because
the malefactive argument is not part of the lexical semantics of the basic
verb.
We have seen that the malefactive of the unaccusative verb occurs with an
optional accusative marker and is cross-referenced by an obligatory object
pronominal suffix on the verb. I argue that this fact is connected to the experi-
encer status of the malefactive argument. The evidence for this assumption
comes from the argument structure of the so-called ‘impersonal’ verbs of
sensation, emotion and perception which have quirky subjects. Consider
the verbs ammEmE- ‘be/become ill’, rabE- ‘be/become hungry’ and bErrEdE
‘be/become cold’ in (40):
Amharic 325
(40) (a) aster-(In) ammBm-at
A.-(acc) be/become.ill+perf+3m-3fO
Aster is/became ill (lit. it pained Aster)
(b) aster-(In) rab-at
A.-(acc) be/become.hungry+perf+3m-3fO
Aster is/became hungry (lit. it hungered Aster)
(c) aster-(In) bBrrBd-at
A.-(acc) be/become.cold+perf+3m-3fO
Aster is/became cold (lit. it chilled A.)
It is obvious that the arguments of the impersonal verbs are undergoing a
physical and/or mental experience. Notice that the arguments occur with an
optional accusative case and control obligatory object agreement, exactly like
the malefactive arguments of the unaccusatives. The argument which controls
subject agreement can be regarded as the physical and/or mental state itself
which is represented by it in the literal English translations.
It is interesting to note that the experiencer arguments of the impersonal
verbs and the malefactive argument of the unaccusative verbs lack volitional
control over the event. Thus, sentences such as (35b) can be employed to
express events that are accidental or unexpected – for example, if the bottle
broke after slipping out of one’s grip.
4 Reflexives and reciprocals
4.1 Reflexives
The reflexive applies to transitive verbs. The prefix t(E)-, which we have seen
in the passive and anticausative, is also used to derive the reflexive:
(41) (a) aster t-at't'BbB-QQ
A. refl-wash+perf-3f
Aster washed herself
(b) lBmma tB-laQ'Q'B
L. refl-shave+perf+3m
Lemma shaved himself
Note that, as in the anticausative, the reflexive verb can have a passive
interpretation as well. However, with verbs such as at't'EbE ‘wash’ and laP'P'E
‘shave’ which express events that normally affect a bodypart, the preferred
reading is that of the reflexive.
326 Mengistu Amberber
A reflexive clause can be derived without applying a valency-changing
derivation. Amharic has a strategy of reflexivization which maintains the
valency of the predicate and employs reflexive pronouns. The reflexive pro-
nouns are formed by the root (p)ras ‘self’ (which also means ‘head’) plus
possessive pronominal suffixes.
(42) lBmma ras-u-n mBtta
L. self-poss+3m-acc hit+perf+3m
Lemma hit himself
Notice that the reflexive pronoun occurs in the O slot and is marked by the
accusative suffix. The verb mEtta ‘hit’ can take the prefix tE- as in tE-mEtta
but it has only the passive interpretation. Thus, there is no reflexive of mEtta
‘hit’:
(43) *lBmma tB-mBtta
L. refl-hit+perf+3m
(for ‘Lemma hit himself’)
(OK as: ‘Lemma was hit’)
Thus, verbs which do not take the reflexive prefix occur with reflexive
pronouns to form the reflexive. The set of transitive verbs which take the
prefix t(E)- but do not have a reflexive meaning include verbs such as mEtta
‘hit’ and =EddElE ‘kill’. On the other hand, the set of transitive verbs which
take the the prefix t(E)- and have a reflexive meaning include verbs such as
at't'EbE ‘wash’ and laP'P'E ‘shave’. Thus, the reflexive verbs refer to actions
that are normally performed on one’s own bodypart.
Interestingly, with verbs which encode events that affect parts of the body,
the reflexive verb can take an accusative-marked argument:
(44) lBmma ras-u-n tB-laQ'Q'B
L. head-poss+3m-acc refl-shave+perf+3m
Lemma shaved his head
(*for ‘Lemma shaved himself’)
However, note that the sentence in (44) is acceptable only if the form (p)ras
is interpreted as ‘head’ (instead of as ‘self’). Thus, the equivalent of ‘he
shaved his beard’ involves the relevant body part in the O slot as in (45):
(45) lBmma si'm-u-n tB-laQ'Q'B
L. beard-poss+3m-acc refl-shave+perf+3m
Lemma shaved his beard
Amharic 327
It is also important to note that the reflexive pronouns can have an
emphatic function and occur in subject or object position:
(46) (a) Iras-u mBt't'a
self-poss+3m come+perf+3m
He (not anyone else) came
(b) aster Iras-u-n ayyB-Q-Iw
A. self-poss+3m-acc see+perf-3f-3mO
Aster saw him (not anyone else)
4.2 Reciprocals
Reciprocity is expressed by the prefix t(E)- plus a special reduplicative stem
inflected in the plural. For a triradical verb such as nEkkEsE ‘bit’, the redu-
plicative pattern is tE+C1BC2aC2C2BC3-:
(47) wIUU-oQQ-u tB-nBkakkBs-u
dog-pl-def recip-bit+recip+perf-3pl
The dogs bit each other
In addition to the reciprocal stem, there are reciprocal pronouns formed by
the stem prsbErs plus a plural possessive suffix:
(48) sBww-oQQ-u IrsbBrs-aQQBw tB-dBbaddBb-u
person-pl-def each.other-poss+3pl recip-hit+recip+perf-3pl
The people hit each other
The reciprocal pronoun cannot take the accusative case suffix:
(49) *sBww-oQQ-u IrsbBrs-aQQBw-In tB-dBbaddBb-u
person-pl-def each.other-poss+3pl-acc recip-hit+recip+perf-3pl
The absence of an accusative-marked NP in the O slot indicates that the
reciprocal derivation always reduces valency.
5 Valency-encoding devices
In Amharic, one has to distinguish strictly valency-changing devices from
valency-encoding devices.
Valency-changing devices are involved in directional alternation (in the
sense of Haspelmath 1993: 91), i.e., either an intransitive form is formally
basic and the transitive is derived from it or else the transitive is basic and the
intransitive is derived from it. In addition to this pattern, we need to recog-
nize non-directed alternation, or what Haspelmath (1993) calls ‘equipollent
328 Mengistu Amberber
alternation’ in which both the intransitive and transitive forms of a verb
are derived from a common stem by employing different affixes or auxiliary
verbs.
Amharic and other Ethio-Semitic languages have a number of verbs which
do not occur in their basic forms despite their phonological well-formedness.
Such verbs can be described as bound because they are not well formed
unless they occur with a derivational prefix. Consider the following examples:
(50) (a) tB-dBssBtB ‘be pleased, be happy’
as-dBssBtB ‘please (tr), make happy’
(*-dBssBtB)
(b) tB-k'BmmBt'B ‘sit (intr), be placed’
as-k'BmmBt'B ‘sit (tr), put’
(*-k'BmmBt'B)
Both the transitive and intransitive verbs are derived by attaching the relev-
ant prefix to the same bound form. Thus, bound verbs occur with valency-
encoding prefixes. Note that it is not possible to predict the class of verbs
that require valency-encoding prefixes on morphophonological or lexical
semantic grounds.
6 The valency of complex predicates
A study of transitivity classes in Amharic would not be complete without
examining the valency of complex predicates. There is a productive complex
predicate which essentially involves the juxtaposing of the verb alE ‘say’ or
the verb adErrE=E ‘make/do’ with a verbal noun:
(51) t'Brmus-u sIbbIr alB
bottle-def break+vn say+perf+3m
The bottle broke
In (51), it is only the verb alE ‘say’ that is inflected for tense/aspect and
pronominal agreement. The element which co-occurs with the verb alE ‘say’
takes no verbal inflection. I will employ the terms ‘verbal noun’ (vn) and
‘simple verb’ (sv) to refer to the non-inflected constituent of the predicate
(e.g. spbbpr ‘break+vn’) and the inflected verb (e.g. alE ‘say’) respectively.
The latter is sometimes known by the term ‘light verb’ – a term familiar from
the study of similar constructions in languages such as Japanese (cf. Grimshaw
and Mester 1988). See also Reid’s chapter in this volume for a similar com-
plex verb formation in Ngan'gityemerri and other Daly/Kimberley languages.
Amharic 329
Although the verbal noun does not have the usual verbal inflection, it
occurs with distinct templates. In a typical triradical root, the vn appears in
two different templates, which can be identified as intensive and attenuative
respectively (cf. Beyene 1972):
(52) (a) Intensive: C1IC2C2IC3
(b) Attenuative: C1BC2BC3
Although the intensive and attenuative templates encode a range of related
meanings, the most common meaning component has to do with the manner
in which the event is realized: for instance, whether the patient argument is
completely affected or not or whether the action is more intense or not. Thus,
in (51) where the predicate occurs with the intensive template, there is a
sense in which the action is rather intense.
Synchronically, there are a number of constructions in which the position
of the vn is filled with onomatopoeic items:
(53) (a) zInab-u t'Bbb t'Bbb alB
rain-def ‘drip’ say+perf+3m
The rain dripped
(lit. the rain said: ‘t'Bbb t'Bbb’)
(b) =omma-w sit'it't' alB
tyre-def ‘squeak’ say+perf+3m
The tyre squeaked
(lit. the tyre (of a car) said: ‘sit'it't'’)
Interestingly, the complex predicate formed by the verb alE ‘say’ occurs
only in intransitive clauses. Thus, the simple verb alE ‘say’ cannot occur in
transitive clauses:
(54) (a) *aster t'Brmus-u-n sIbbIr alB-QQ
A. bottle-def-acc break+vn say+perf-3f
(for ‘Aster broke the bottle’)
(b) *anas'i-w t'awla-w-In sInt't'Ik' alB
carpenter-def plank-def-acc split+vn say+perf-3f
(for ‘the carpenter split the plank’)
The transitive variants of the above constructions involve another simple
verb, namely the verb adErrE=E ‘make/do’:
(55) (a) aster t'Brmus-u-n sIbbIr adBrrB=B-QQ
A. bottle-def-acc break+vn do+perf-3f
Aster broke the bottle
330 Mengistu Amberber
(b) anas'i-w t'awla-w-In sInt't'Ik' adBrrB=B
carpenter-def plank-def-acc split+vn do+perf+3m
The carpenter split the plank
Notice that the same verbal noun can occur with either alE ‘say’ or adErrE=E
‘make/do’ with a corresponding difference in transitivity. For instance, com-
pare (54a) with (55a). In both clauses, the verbal noun (spbbpr ‘break+vn’) is
constant and the valency of the predicate is indicated by the simple verbs.
Thus, the simple verbs are valency-encoding devices parallel to the valency-
encoding prefixes discussed in §5.
7 Conclusion
In this chapter, I have discussed valency-changing and valency-encoding
devices in Amharic.
First, I showed that the lexical semantic distinction between unergatives
and unaccusatives is important in determining transitivity. Second, I argued
that the presence of an external causer in bringing about an event is a crucial
lexical semantic notion that is responsible for the presence of the anticausative
derivation. Third, I suggested that at a descriptive level valency-encoding
devices should be recognized as distinct from valency-changing devices.
Excluding the applicative,6
the morphological derivations which we have
seen so far can be categorized into two broad classes: (a) micro-derivations
and (b) macro-derivations. Micro-derivations apply to a relatively restricted
class of verbs and are more sensitive to the lexical semantic property of the
basic predicate (for instance, whether or not the event can come about without
the involvement of an external causer). Macro-derivations are relatively free
in their application:
(56) (a) Micro-derivations
(i) anticausative
(ii) causative a-
(iii) reflexive/reciprocal
(b) Macro-derivations
(i) passive
(ii) causative as-
6
For the applicative, one has to examine the interaction between the peripheral arguments
(including locative, benefactive, malefactive, instrumental) on the one hand, and transitivity
classes on the other – a task which is beyond the scope of this chapter.
Amharic 331
It can be argued (as pointed out to me by Masayoshi Shibatani) that the
anticausative, the passive and the reflexive can be grouped in one class under
the label ‘middle’ (see also Kemmer 1993):
(57) middle
(a) anticausative
(b) passive
(c) reflexive
The grouping of these three derivations under the label ‘middle’ can be
justified mainly on morphological grounds: the prefix t(E)- is employed in all
cases. (Note that the reciprocal is excluded from the class because it requires
reduplication in addition to the prefix.)
However, from a syntactico-semantic perspective, the verbs that take the
prefix t(E)- hardly constitute a homogenous (‘middle’) class in Amharic.
Indeed, we have seen that the anticausative applies only to a restricted class
of transitive verbs, whereas the passive applies to any basic transitive verb. The
reflexive typically applies to events that normally affect a bodypart. Unlike
the anticausative and the passive, the reflexive does not necessarily reduce
valency because the bodypart NP can occur in the O position.
Needless to say, a chapter of this size cannot cover all of the intricacies of
valency-changing and valency-encoding devices in Amharic. However, I hope
that the chapter presents a general overview of the transitivity designs of the
language which would be of interest for linguistic typology.
References
Alsina, A. 1992. ‘On the argument structure of causatives’, Linguistic Inquiry 23.517–
56.
Baker, M. 1988. Incorporation: a theory of grammatical function changing. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Beyene, T. 1972. ‘Aspects of the verb in Amharic’. Ph.D. dissertation. Georgetown
University, Washington, D.C.
Demoz, A. 1964. ‘The meaning of some derived verbal stems in Amharic’, Ph.D.
dissertation. UCLA.
Grimshaw, J. and Mester, A. 1988. ‘Light verbs and θ-marking’, Linguistic Inquiry
19.205–32.
Guerssel, M. 1986. On Berber verbs of change: a study of transitivity alternations,
Lexicon Project Working Papers 9. Cambridge, Mass.: Lexicon Project, Center
for Cognitive Science, MIT.
Haile, G. 1970. ‘The suffix pronouns in Amharic’, pp. 101–11 of Papers in African
linguistics, ed. Chin-Wu Kim and H. Stahlke. Edmonton: Linguistic Research.
332 Mengistu Amberber
Haspelmath, M. 1993. ‘More on the typology of inchoative/causative verb alterna-
tions’, pp. 87–120 of Causatives and transitivity, ed. B. Comrie and M. Polinsky.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kemmer, S. 1993. The middle voice, Typological studies in language 23. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Leslau, W. 1995. Reference grammar of Amharic. Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Levin, B. 1993. English verb classes and alternations. Chicago: University of Chi-
cago Press.
Levin, B. and Rappaport, M. 1995. Unaccusativity: at the syntax–semantics interface.
Cambridge, Mass.: The MIT Press.
Mohanan, K.P. 1983. ‘Move NP or lexical rules? Evidence from Malayalam causativ-
ization’, pp. 47–111 of Papers in Lexical–Functional Grammar, ed. L. Levin
et al. Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Ngan'gityemerri 333
10 Complex verb collocations in
Ngan'gityemerri: a non-derivational
strategy for encoding valency
alternations
NICHOLAS REID
This chapter investigates the range of constructions in Ngan'gityemerri1
that
can be thought of as involving shifts in the associated argument structure of
verbs. The major contribution of this chapter is to highlight the fact that some
languages have at their disposal morphosyntactic mechanisms that encode
valency, without necessarily needing morphological derivations to achieve the
same kinds of valency shifts that derivations are good for. Ngan'gityemerri’s
main strategy, a system of complex verb formation, is of the morphosyntactic
type. However, it does additionally make use of some minor but genuinely
morphological derivations, including a presentative applicative derived from
an incorporated bodypart noun.
1 Preliminaries
There are two parameters around which Australian languages vary. Firstly,
most employ suffixes, but in northern Australia there is a large bloc of lan-
guages that also use prefixes. These latter ‘prefixing’ languages mostly have
A, S and O bound pronominals as prefixes to the verb. Ngan'gityemerri requires
the obligatory cross-referencing of core arguments by bound pronominals on
1
Ngan'gityemerri is a prefixing language spoken in the Daly River region of the Northern
Territory of Australia by about 150 people. The two varieties of this language, known as
Ngan'gikurunggurr and Ngen'giwumirri, share a 90+% cognacy rate, the same phoneme invent-
ory, and near-identical morphosyntactic structuring. For the purposes of this chapter there is
no real need to distinguish between these dialects, so reference is made to Ngan'gityemerri
throughout, while most of the data is from Ngen'giwumirri. Note that in the Ngan'gityemerri
orthography ng represents a velar nasal, whereas n’g is a hetero-organic cluster of alveolar
nasal plus velar stop.
This chapter has benefited from editorial criticism from Sasha Aikenvald and Bob Dixon,
and useful comments from Ian Green, Mark Harvey, Emily Knight and William McGregor.
334 Nicholas Reid
the verb in strictly nominative/accusative patterning. However it is unusual
amongst prefixing languages in marking A and S as prefixes, but O as a suffix.
Secondly, some Australian languages have many simple inflecting verbs
and few complex verbs, while others have few simple inflecting verbs and
large numbers of complex verbs. Ngan'gityemerri is of the latter type. One
of its most distinctive typological features, shared by many languages in
northern parts of Western Australia and the Northern Territory, is that it has
only a handful of simple inflecting verbs, and thousands of ‘complex verbs’
made up of two component lexical elements. Complex verbs combine one of
a smallish class of finite verbs which carry most of the affixation, with a non-
inflecting verb stem.2
This is no homogenous phenomenon: there is consider-
able variation in the the ordering of and degree of binding between, these two
elements. And, unsurprisingly, a wide range of terminological conventions
have been used to label the constituent elements of a complex verb. Through-
out this chapter I refer to the small class of affix-bearing finite verbs as ‘finite
verbs’, and to the non-inflecting lexical verb stems as ‘coverbs’.3
A sample
Ngan'gityemerri verb showing these structural characteristics is given below,
where ‘+’ divides the finite verb from the coverb.
(1)4
nga-rim-Ø+pawal
1sgA-Poke-3sgO+spear
I speared it
The range of strategies in Ngan'gityemerri for manipulating valency all hinge
on the interaction between these two elements of the complex verb. §2 presents
a more detailed overview of verbal structure, noting in particular that both
finite verbs and coverbs can be independently assigned transitivity/valency
values. §3 examines the various possibilities for constructing complex verbs
through different finite verb and coverb combinations. The choice of finite
verb to combine with a coverb is shown to be a strategy that achieves the
same kinds of valency shifts that are achieved by derivations in most of
2
For a more detailed discussion of complex verbs as an areal phenomenon, see Reid (forthcoming).
3
Examples include ‘preverbs and generic verbs’ (Schultze-Berndt, p.c.), ‘verbals and classifiers’
(McGregor 1990), ‘auxiliary and verb root’ (Reid 1990). Other labels for the lexical verb stem
include ‘verbal particle’ (Merlan 1989), ‘gerund’ (Capell 1976), ‘participle’ (Cook 1987). In
more recent literature there appears to be some convergence on the term ‘coverb’, and to the
extent that this class of morpheme can be identified across a variety of languages, this appears
to be a useful term in assuming no positional characteristics, and in appropriately conveying a
sense of the shared contribution that these lexical stems make to the complex verb’s meaning.
For these reasons I happily adopt this term here.
4
Example glosses employ the conventional abbreviations set out at the beginning of the volume.
Additionally, finite verbs are given a semantically based label, e.g. ‘Sit’, ‘Lie’, ‘Go’, ‘Do’,
‘Hands’, ‘Poke’, etc. Readers should also be aware that I have simplified glossing in a number
of ways intended to make the morphological complexity of Ngan'gityemerri words more
digestible. In particular I have sacrificed the marking of tense, aspect and mood information.
Ngan'gityemerri 335
the languages presented in this volume. Also discussed in this section is the
‘impersonal verb’ construction in Ngan'gityemerri, involving a mismatch
between formal transitivity of a complex verb on the one hand, and its asso-
ciated argument structure on the other. Impersonal verbs are a fairly restricted
set of transitive verbs carrying non-referential fixed A marking, and with only
a single argument, coded as O. §4 examines two minor valency-manipulating
strategies involving genuine morphological derivation of coverbs, where
Ngan'gityemerri has developed presentative and locative applicatives. Intrigu-
ingly, the presentative applicative is shown to have developed this deriva-
tional function from an unlikely source – from the syntactically incorporated
bodypart morpheme meaning ‘eye’.
Given the crucial role that the complex verb type plays in each of these
valency-manipulating strategies, some slightly more detailed investigation of
verb structure and transitivity will be essential preliminaries.
2 Overview of verbal structure
There are two types of verb in Ngan'gityemerri: simple and complex. Simple
verbs consist of just a finite verb which inflects for TAM categories (irrealis,
present, past perfective, past imperfective), and which hosts a prefix cross-
referencing its A/S and a suffix cross-referencing its O. There are only twelve
such verbs in this language, seven intransitive and five transitive, so they can
simply be listed exhaustively. Table 10.1 sets out these simple verbs, showing
Table 10.1. The twelve ‘simple’ verbs in Ngan'gityemerri
intransitive
sit ngi-rim I’m sitting.
stand ngi-rribem I’m standing.
lie yi-bem You’re lying down.
go ya-ganim You’re going.
travel5
yi-rripin She’s travelling.
perch wi-tyibem It’s perching.
arrive ye-menggeng-ngindi You arrived to me.
transitive
say/do/think ngi-m-Ø I did it.
see ngi-nyirri-nyi I’ll see you.
take ya-wang-ngi Take me!
inscribe, write nga-rim-Ø I’m writing it.
spread, smear ngu-pun-Ø I’m spreading it.
5
‘Travel’ differs from ‘go’ in implying more motivated goal-oriented movement.
336 Nicholas Reid
sample subject prefixes and object suffixes. The simple verb ‘arrive’ demon-
strates the possibility of optionally suffixing non-core arguments such as
‘goals’, while ‘see’ and ‘take’ demonstrate O-marking on transitive simple
verbs.
Beyond these twelve, every other verb in Ngan'gityemerri is complex,
consisting of a finite verb in combination with a lexical coverb, mostly in that
order.6
Finite verbs and lexical verbs in combination constitute a single word
in terms of both phonological and morphological criteria. In total there are
thirty-one finite verbs, including the twelve listed above. Thus each of the
simple verbs listed in table 10.1 can also occur in combination with a coverb,
as demonstrated in table 10.2. I refer to these twelve verbs as ‘finite verbs’ in
discussing their complex verb role, and as ‘simple verbs’ in discussing their
independent occurrence. (Note that the simple verbs ‘write’ and ‘spread’ are
glossed as ‘Poke’ and ‘Slash’ when functioning as finite verbs.) In table 10.2
the finite verbs above the dotted line are those which can also function as
simple verbs, those below it can only co-occur with coverbs. Note that the
transitive finite verbs are broadly concerned with how things are manipulated
at the interface between the human body and other objects. The remaining ten
are the monovalent reflexes of transitive finite verbs.
Finite verbs are a small closed class of verbs that inflect for tam categories
and index the person/number categories of core participant roles. Critically,
finite verbs contribute to the semantics of the resultant whole verb in some
way.
These two-part verbal systems are found in a bloc extending from the
Kimberley region of northern Western Australia across towards the Gulf
of Carpentaria on the eastern side of the Northern Territory. As a general
observation, for those languages with larger finite verb systems (say between
twenty and thirty-five) such as the southern Daly languages, finite verb
semantics tend to be more lexical, whereas for those languages with smaller
finite verb systems, such as the eastern Daly languages and the Kimberley
languages, finite verb semantics tend to involve more generalized semantic
categorizations and vaguer distinctions in aspect and transitivity (see for
example McGregor’s 1990 (557–72) discussion of ‘extendible classifiers’ and
‘accomplishment classifiers’ in Gooniyandi). The Ngan'gityemerri system is
6
There is a small subset of verbs (mostly those employing the ‘Say/Do’ finite verb) that have
these constituents ordered ‘coverb – finite verb’. This subset of verbs has no relevance to the
topic of this chapter. See Reid (forthcoming) for an analysis of such ordering as a retention of
the dominant verb order in a prior stage of this language.
Ngan'gityemerri 337
Table 10.2. Meanings of the thirty-one finite verbs in Ngan'gityemerri
intransitive
Sit carried out in a sitting posture
Stand carried out in a standing posture
Lie carried out in a lying posture
Go carried out in motion
Travel carried out in motion
Perch carried out up off the ground
Arrive involving arrival/emergence
transitive
Say/Do speech and unspecified doing (do things, say things)
See performed with the eyes (look at, watch, keep an eye on)
Take taking/bringing things
Poke using long thin things in point contact (stab, prod)
Slash using hinged trajectory and edge-on contact (sweep, slice)
– – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Hands holding things within the grasp of the hands (grab, hold, grip)
Feet holding things down with the feet (tread on, kick, walk on)
Mouth holding things within the mouth (chew, suck, some speech verbs)
Bash using vertical trajectory and lumpy contact (thump, crash)
Move moving things to a different place (shift, throw, push)
Heat applying heat (burn, melt, warm, light)
Suck ingesting things (eat, drink)
Pull pulling things (pull, tow, lever up)
Snatch acquiring things (get, pick up)
reflexive detransitive
Hands.refl reflexive activity holding things within the grasp of the hands
Feet.refl reflexive activity holding things down with the feet
Mouth.refl reflexive activity holding things within the mouth
Poke.refl reflexive activity using long thin things in point contact
Move.refl.dyn reflexive activity by moving things to a different place dynamic
Move.refl.stat reflexive activity by moving things to a different place stative
Bash.refl reflexive activity using vertical trajectory and lumpy contact
Heat.refl reflexive activity by applying heat
See.refl reflexive activity performed with the eyes (look at your own
reflection)
Say/Do.refl reflexive speech (talk to yourself, mutter under your breath)
at the more lexical end of this range – there is generally no real difficulty in
determining the semantic contribution that a finite verb brings to a complex
verb. Their contrasting semantics are readily accessible because many finite
verbs co-occur with the same coverb, e.g.:
338 Nicholas Reid
(2) (a) ngi-rim-fifi
1sgS-Sit-smoke
I’m smoking (sitting)
(b) ngi-rribem-fifi
1sgS-Stand-smoke
I’m smoking (standing)
(c) ngi-bem-fifi
1sgS-Lie-smoke
I’m smoking (lying)
(3) (a) nge-rim-Ø-kalal
1sgA-Hands-3sgO-rustle
I rustled it (using my hands)
(b) nga-nan-Ø-kalal
1sgA-Feet-3sgO-rustle
I rustled it (using my feet)
(c) nge-m-Ø-kalal
1sgA-Mouth-3sgO-rustle
I rustled it (using my mouth, e.g. by blowing)
(4) (a) nga-rim-Ø-gurrgurr
1sgA-Poke-3sgO-miss
I missed an attempted ‘Poke’ contact (a prod or stab with a long thin weapon)
(b) nge-rim-Ø-gurrgurr
1sgA-Hands-3sgO-miss
I missed an attempted ‘Hands’ contact (a pinch or grab)
(c) ngu-pun-Ø-gurrgurr
1sgA-Slash-3sgO-miss
I missed an attempted ‘Slash’ contact (a swinging slap or chop)
(d) nge-ben-Ø-gurrgurr
1sgA-Bash-3sgO-miss
I missed an attempted ‘Bash’ contact (a heavy thud with a lump-like object)
However, in addition to these semantically transparent examples, it should
be noted that there are many verbs in Ngan'gityemerri where the finite verb’s
contribution to the meaning of the complex verb involves a high degree of
abstraction. That the verb meaning ‘to catch flu’ (‘Hand’:grab) is formed with
the ‘Hands’ finite verb, can be fairly easily viewed in terms of metaphorical
extension – flu grabs hold of you in much the same way as a policeman does,
and ‘holds on’ longer than you’d want. However it is less apparent why a
verb meaning ‘want’, or ‘give a speech’, or ‘be jealous’ or ‘travel in a plane’,
etc., should be formed with the ‘Hands’ finite verb.
Ngan'gityemerri 339
Lexical verbs are an open class of typically uninflecting roots. Several
hundred lexical verbs can usually be identified, and the class is typically open
in the sense that additions to the class come about through some derived use
of adjectives and nouns as lexical coverbs, through the combination of finite
verbs with English/Kriol lexical verbs, and through, usually limited, morpho-
logical derivation (often marking location), etc. They are often phonotactically
distinct from nominal roots, often being (closed) monosyllabic and allowing
initial or final consonants not found in other word classes.
Finite verbs contribute to the semantics of the whole verb complex in
terms of the kinds of meanings listed here, and they can usefully be thought
of as having a classificatory function, in the sense that they provide further
specification of the manner in which the action specified by the coverb is
performed (posture, instrumental bodyparts, contact type, etc.). However, finite
verbs do not provide a basis for the division of lexical verbs into disjoint
classes. That is, the class of lexical verbs cannot be divided up into disjoint
subclasses according to their finite verb combination. Across a finite verb sys-
tem there is typically wide variation in degrees of productivity and semantic
transparentness. While some lexical verbs will occur in combination with
only a single finite verb, more typically there will be lexical verbs which
combine with a number of different finite verbs. Also, some finite verbs will
be highly productive and combine with hundreds of different lexical verbs,
while others will be relatively unproductive. Looking back at the list of finite
verbs in table 10.2, we can observe, for instance, that ‘Hands’, ‘Poke’, ‘Slash’,
‘Bash’ and ‘Move’ are all highly productive and textually common, whereas
‘Snatch’, ‘Pull’, ‘Suck’ and ‘Perch’ are both rare and unproductive.
2.1 Transitivity
Transitivity is a bit messy in Ngan'gityemerri. In the case of the simple verbs
(those 12 that don’t combine with a coverb) we can readily divide them into
transitive and intransitive classes, as shown in table 10.1. However, it is when
we turn to complex verbs that things get a bit more complicated.
Ultimately the transitivity of a Ngan'gityemerri verb is a property of the
whole complex verb, and the criterion for verbal transitivity is quite simple:
transitive verbs require obligatory cross-referencing of objects, intransitive
verbs do not allow cross-referencing of objects. Note though that this simple
formula is clouded in practice by the fact that 3sg objects have Ø marking,
and by the fact that non-human referents generally don’t qualify for pronom-
inal cross-referencing at all. It is thus only possible to formally demonstrate the
transitivity of those Ngan'gityemerri verbs that have human non-3sg objects.
340 Nicholas Reid
However, the two elements that combine to produce complex verbs, the
finite verb and the coverb, can each usefully be thought of as having associated
transitivity/valency values. Throughout this discussion I refer to the distinct
transitivity values of finite verbs and coverbs using the terms ‘transitive’ and
‘intransitive’ in quotation marks, and transitivity values assigned to the whole
complex verb as transitive or intransitive (without quotation marks). So where
does it get messy? Generally speaking it can be observed that finite verb
‘transitivity’ is a good predictor of verbal transitivity, but not absolutely so.
By the end of this chapter we’ll see that Ngan'gityemerri allows a rich and
varied array of strategies when it comes to mixing and matching finite verbs
and coverbs. Among other possibilities, low transitive verbs can be formed
with ‘intransitive’ finite verbs, while monovalent coverbs can be paired up
with ‘transitive’ finite verbs. Before we examine the semantic consequences
of these strategies, let’s look at the morphosyntactic categories of verbal
indexing.
2.2 Pronominal cross-referencing on the verb
In Ngan'gityemerri there are clearly intransitive verbs, which only have sub-
jects. There are clearly transitive verbs which obligatorily have both subjects
and objects. A and S pronouns are prefixes to the finite verb root, while O
pronouns are suffixes to it. These two basic types are exemplified in (5) and
(6) below.
(5) ngi-rim-fifi
1sgS-Sit-smoke
I’m smoking
(6) ngi-nyinggin-nyi-kerrety
1sgA-See-2sgO-watch
I’m looking after you
The verb structure additionally allows for the coding of several other types
of argument. Firstly there are ‘goal’ or ‘indirect object’ pronominals which
appear in the same position as direct O marking, and over-ride it. Compare
(6) above with (7) below. This outranking of O is generally explicable in
terms of the likelihood of goals being higher on the animacy hierarchy, though
G still outranks O where they have the same animacy value.
(7) ngi-nyinggin-mbi-kerrety
1sgA-See-2sggoal-watch
I’m looking after (it/them) for you
Ngan'gityemerri 341
Further there is another set of bound pronominals, restricted to intransitive
verbs, which code peripheral arguments typically in the role of maleficiary.
These are suffixed, not to the finite verb, but to the coverb, e.g.:
(8) da-gum-felfil-nginde
3sgS-Feet-run.away-1sgmal
(My wife) she ran away on me
As there are only two core roles obligatorily marked on the verb, three-
argument verbs have one argument that fails to qualify for coding on the
verb, but which can be tacked on as a free-form noun. ‘Give’ and ‘show’, for
example, mark agent as A, recipient as O, and gift appears only as an
uncasemarked free noun, and is not targeted for coding on the verb.
(9) yibe nga-Ø-nyi-fime-pe mani
later 1sgA-Poke-2sgO-give-fut money
I’ll give you the money later
2.3 Finite verb transitivity
As demonstrated in table 10.2 the thirty-one Ngan'gityemerri finite verbs can
be divided into three groups. The seven posture/motion finite verbs are all
intransitive in their simple function, and in their complex function they typ-
ically combine with monovalent coverbs, forming intransitive complex verbs.
These two functions are contrasted in Table 10.3.
Table 10.3. Simple and complex functions of the posture/motion finite verbs
Sit ngi-rim I’m sitting
ngi-rim-fifi I’m smoking
Stand ngi-rribem I’m standing
ngi-rribem-tyalak I’m standing upright
Lie yi-bem You’re lying down
yi-bem-tyerrakul You’re talking (lying)
Go ya-ganim You go
ya-ganim-lalirr You eat
Travel yi-rripim She’s going somewhere
yi-rripin-syety She’s afraid
Perch wi-tyibem It’s hanging
wi-tyibem-filkity It’s whirling (parrot on branch)
Arrive ye-menggeng You arrived
ye-menggeng-tasat You emerged
342 Nicholas Reid
Of the subset of ‘transitive’ finite verbs, those five that occur as simple
verbs can be demonstrated to form transitive verbs. The remaining nine can
be usefully thought of as ‘transitive’, most typically forming transitive verbs,
and, to the extent that the semantic nature of finite verbs can be independently
characterized, they can be shown to be ‘transitive/bivalent’ in their concerns
for the contact/trajectory details of objects manipulated by potent agents.
Three common ‘transitive’ finite verbs are demonstrated in (10–12) below:
(10) ‘See’ ngi-nyirri-nyi-kerrety
1sgA-See-2sgO-watch
I’ll look after you
(11) ‘Poke’ nga-rim-nyi-pawal
1sgA-Poke-2sgO-spear
I speared you
(12) ‘Slash’ ngu-pun-nyi-fulirr
1sgA-Slash-2sgO-rub
I’m rubbing you
2.4 Coverb valency/transitivity
Just as it is possible to assign transitivity values independently to finite verbs,
so we can assign transitivity/valency values to coverbs in Ngan'gityemerri.
Verb stems are either monovalent or bivalent. Verbs formed with monovalent
coverbs can be either simple intransitives or else transitive causatives, depend-
ing on the finite verb choice. Bivalent verb stems specify activities that have
two participants (in the sense of Hopper and Thompson 1980). One subclass
of bivalent coverbs has low transitivity value, its members specifying activit-
ies where patient nouns are barely affected and frequently non-individuated.
The other subclass of bivalent coverbs has high transitivity value, its members
specifying activities where potent As carry out highly telic actions on indi-
viduated and highly affected Os. The relationship between participant number
and transitivity is thus rather loose, with two-participant clauses not necessarily
being strongly transitive. We will pick up this issue in the following sections.
Sample coverbs of each of these three classes are set out in table 10.4.
Table 10.4. Transitivity/valency classes of coverbs
monovalent: (du ‘sleep’, wap ‘sit’, wurr ‘enter’, etc.)
bivalent low transitive: (pup ‘rub’, wuty ‘pour’, tip ‘pick up’, etc.)
bivalent high transitives: (pawal ‘spear’, kerrety ‘grasp’, etc.)
Ngan'gityemerri 343
3 Finite verb plus coverb combinations
Of the nine combinatorial possibilities for finite verbs and coverbs, eight are
attested, and each of these combinations has predictable semantic effect. The
following section examines each of the various combinations in some detail,
but they are summarized in table 10.5.
Table 10.5. Summary of finite verb + coverb combinations
‘Intransitive’ + Monovalent = intransitive verb
finite verbs + Bivalent low transitive = (in)transitive with S/A focus
+ Bivalent high transitive = intransitive anticausative
‘Transitive’ + Monovalent = transitive causative
finite verbs + Bivalent low transitive = low transitive with O focus
+ Bivalent high transitive = high transitive
‘Reflexive’ + Monovalent = intransitive, causative/reflexive
finite verbs + Bivalent low transitive (unattested)
+ Bivalent high transitive = intransitive, reflexive
3.1 ‘Intransitive’ finite verbs plus monovalent coverbs
Monovalent coverbs combine with ‘intransitive’ finite verbs, forming simple in-
transitive verbs. The single core arguments of such verbs are cross-referenced
as S and may fill agentive roles as in (13–15), or patientive roles as in (16–17):
(13) Nga-ganim-du
1sgS-Go-sleep
I slept
(14) Ya-ni-wurr pagu!
2sgS-Go-enter hither
(You) come in!
(15) Ngi-ni-tyutytyurr-tye
1sgS-Sit-swim-past
I was swimming
(16) Ye-nim-purity
3sgS-Go-slip
He slipped
(17) Wi-rribem-gulirr
3sgS-stand-spin
It (cassette) is spinning round
344 Nicholas Reid
3.2 ‘Transitive’ finite verbs plus monovalent coverbs (causative effect)
The same monovalent coverbs can also be freely combined with ‘transitive’
finite verbs, forming transitive causative verbs. Functionally then, these verbs
are analogous to the valency-increasing causative derivations discussed in
other contributions to this volume. Compare (13–17) above with (18–22)
below, which involve the same coverbs:
(18) Ngirrngirr ngu-dum-birrki-du
sleep 1sgA-Move-3duO-sleep
I put them to sleep
(19) Yu-di-Ø-wurr yerrwasyanderri
2sgA-Move-3sgO-enter sack
(You) put it in the sack!
(20) Walipan ngu-dum-Ø-tyurr
clothes 1sgA-Move-3sgO-swim
I immersed the clothes in water
(21) Ngu-di-nyi-purity-pe
1sgA-Move-2sgO-slip-fut
I’ll make you slip
(22) Tuwa nge-riny-Ø-gulirr
door 1sgA-Hands-3sgO-spin
I turned the door handle
The combination of monovalent coverbs with ‘reflexive’ finite verbs is taken
up in §3.7 below.
3.3 ‘Intransitive’ and ‘transitive’ finite verbs plus low transitive
bivalent coverbs
Looking now at low transitive bivalent coverbs, we note that they can freely
combine with both ‘intransitive’ and ‘transitive’ finite verbs. For the moment,
we’ll set aside the question of the transitivity of these verbs, and consider the
differences in their focus. In (23–25) the (a) examples have ‘intransitive’
finite verbs, while the (b) examples have ‘transitive’ finite verbs.
(23) (a) ngi-rim(-Ø)-pup (palayin)
1sgS/A-Sit(-3sgO)-rub (firesticks)
I’m rubbing firesticks [Intransitive aux: focus on subject posture/activity]
(b) nga-rim-Ø-pup (palayin)
1sgA-Poke-3sgO-rub (firesticks)
I’m rubbing firesticks [Transitive aux: focus on how object is manipulated]
Ngan'gityemerri 345
(24) (a) nga-ganim(-Ø)-wuty (kuru)
1sgS/A-Go(-3sgO)-pour (water)
I poured the water out [Intransitive aux: focus on subject movement/activity]
(b) ngu-dupun-Ø-wuty (kuru)
1sgA-Move-3sgO-pour (water)
I poured the water out [Transitive aux: focus on how object is manipulated]
(25) (a) wi-rribem(-Ø)-tiptip ngan’gi nyinyi
3sgS/A-Stand(-3sgO)-pick up word 2sg
It (taperecorder) is recording your speech [Intransitive aux: focus on sub-
ject activity]
(b) wa-mumu-ninggi de-m-burr-tiptip (wurrum)
m-taboo-agt 3sgA-Hands-3plO-pick up (3pl)
The policeman arrested them [Transitive aux: focus on how object is
manipulated]
In general we are able to specify the distinction between the choice of
‘intransitive’ and of ‘transitive’ finite verbs in these complex verbs in terms
of focus. ‘Transitive’ finite verb choice brings focus to the affected patientive
role of the object. Thus (24b) focusses on a subject walking along engaged in
activity that makes water get splashed out, and it is the effect on the water
that is highlighted. ‘Intransitive’ finite verb choice on the other hand brings
focus to the activity that the subject is engaged in. Thus (24a) focusses on a
subject walking along engaged in the act of pouring.
Now what of the transitivity of these verbs? The (b) sentences above
(formed with ‘transitive’ finite verbs) are uncontroversially transitive. They
have A function subject pronouns, and O function object pronouns, which
may be overt, as in (25b). They also have object nouns optionally includable
in free form, as shown by the bracketed constituents in (24b) and (25b).
But what are we to make of the transitivity of the (a) sentences in (23–25)?
Where ‘intransitive’ finite verbs are paired with low transitive bivalent
coverbs, we find subject focus; but are the subjects Ss or As? (Note that the
glosses provided allow for either interpretation.) Note that the (a) sentences,
like the (b) sentences, also allow ‘object’ nouns optionally includable in free
form. For example, (24a) includes a noun (kuru) that is a non-individuated
and essentially unaffected patient. But what is the status of these nouns
with respect to the argument structure of the verb? There are at least two
possibilities here. Verbs constructed with ‘intransitive’ finite verbs and low
transitive bivalent coverbs could be transitive, with their failure to show overt
O marking explicable in terms of the non-individuated status of those objects.
346 Nicholas Reid
Alternatively, these verbs could have a different grammatical structure
to the (b) sentences, being essentially intransitives with ‘cognate objects’.
Hopper and Thompson (1980: 254), in presenting transitivity as a continuum,
note that the presence of a patient noun that is a ‘poor patient’ is not a crucial
component of transitivity, and that many languages use intransitive verbal
morphology in coding two-participant events that lack their proposed high-
transitivity features.
The criterion of formal O-marking on the verb might be expected to pro-
vide grounds for choosing between these analyses, but it fails us here because
3sg objects are Ø-marked and there are no examples where we find overt O
cross-referencing on these verbs.7
This in itself is not proof of intransitivity; it
is precisely because these ‘subject-focus’ verbs have non-individuated second
participants that it is generally not possible to get 1st or 2nd person overt
object marking (shifters like pronouns being typically individuated). But it is
at least suggestive of intransitivity, and we note that there are no other types
of verb construction involving ‘intransitive’ finite verbs where the resultant
verbs are not intransitive.
3.4 ‘Transitive’ finite verbs plus high transitive coverbs
Next we need to consider the second type of coverb, which we label ‘high
transitive’. High transitive bivalent coverbs typically combine with ‘transitive’
finite verbs, yielding high transitive verbs with A and O cross-referencing.
This is statistically the most common type of complex verb in Ngan'gityemerri.
(26) da-m-burrki-pawal
3sgA-Poke-3duO-spear
He speared those two
(27) wu-m-ngi-pi-ket
3sgA-Slash-1sg-head-cut
She cut my hair
(28) da-m-ngi-syi-bang
3sgA-Poke-1sgO-nose-pierce
He pierced my nose
(29) ye-mi-ngi-me-kerrety
2sgA-Hands-1sgO-hand-grasp
Grab hold of my hand!
7
There is a construction where ‘intransitive’ finite verbs bear overt 1st and 2nd person objects;
however, these are presentative and locative applicatives, and are distinguished by derived
verb stems. See examples (74), (76), (77) and (78) in §4.1 and §4.2.
Ngan'gityemerri 347
3.5 ‘Intransitive’ finite verbs plus high transitive coverbs
(anticausative effect)
However, high transitive coverbs can also combine with ‘intransitive’ finite
verbs, producing an intransitive verb with a subject corresponding to the object
of the transitive verb. Consider the pairs below:
(30) (a) nge-rim-Ø-pal (b) ye-nim-pal
1sgA-Hands-3sgO-break 3sgS-Go-break
I broke it It is broken
(31) (a) nge-rim-Ø-tum (b) ngi-rim-tum
1sgA-Hands-3sgO-bury 1sgS-Sit-bury
I sank it I’m sinking
(32) (a) ngu-dupun-Ø-tyerr-ket mudiga (b) ngir-rim-tyerr-ket
1sgA-Move-3sgO-mouth-cut car 1pl.excS-Sit-mouth-cut
I bogged the car We’re bogged
(33) (a) da-ngim-Ø-baty (b) ye-nim-baty
3sgA-Poke-3sgO-sew 3sgS-Go-sew
She’s sewing it He’s twisted up (draped over
something)
(34) (a) kuru ngi-nem-Ø-purrngpurrng (b) kuru di-m-purrngpurrng nyine
water 1sgA-Heat-3sgO-boil water 3sgS-Sit-boil foc
I’m boiling the water The water is boiling now
The (b) examples (30–34) above function as agentless counterparts to the
transitive (a) sentences on the left. This is a kind of anticausative construc-
tion which allows the undergoer of a highly transitive verb to function as
an intransitive S. Functionally then, these verbs are analogous to the valency-
decreasing agentless passive derivations discussed in other contributions to
this volume. Several dozen such verbs have been recorded and they seem
to form a semantic class involving totally (and usually negatively) affected
patients.
3.6 ‘Reflexive’ finite verbs plus bivalent high transitive coverbs
As discussed in §1, all complex verbs in Ngan'gityemerri are constructed
from a finite verb in combination with a coverb. Of the set of thirty-one finite
verbs, there is a subset of eleven finite verbs that are transitive and their
semantics specifically concern how objects are manipulated (what parts of the
body are used to contain them, what kind of patterns of contact and trajectory
are involved, etc.). For nine of these transitive finite verbs, we find another
subset of finite verbs that are their reflexive equivalents. That is, the finite
348 Nicholas Reid
verb system allows for the specification of reflexive verbs through the mechan-
ism of finite verb choice. All complex verbs formed with ‘reflexive’ finite
verbs are formally intransitive, being unable to cross-reference objects on the
verb. While their transitive equivalents have distinct A and O roles, reflexive
verbs have role coreference, and this triggers a switch to an intransitive verb
with only a single role formally marked. That is, the S of a reflexive verb
encodes the original Ai = Oi relationship. The selection of ‘reflexive’ finite
verbs is thus a reduced-valency alternation.
The relationship between verbs constructed with ‘transitive’ finite verbs
and ‘reflexive’ finite verbs is demonstrated in the contrasted pairs below.
Note that there are two ‘reflexive’ finite verbs that are semantically related to
the ‘transitive’ finite verb ‘Move’. The difference between these is aspectual,
coding a dynamic vs stative contrast. The ‘Move’ finite verb triplet are con-
trasted in example (40).
(35) (a) ‘Hands’ transitive (b) ‘Hands’ Reflex
nge-riny-Ø-syirr nge-meny-syirr
1sgA-Hands-3sgO-scratch 1sgS-Hands.refl-scratch
I scratched her I scratched myself
(36) (a) See transitive (b) SeeReflex
di-nyinggin-ngi-kerrety di-nyerrem-kerrety
3sgA-See-1sgO-watch.over 3sgS-See.refl-watch.over
She looks after me He’s looking after himself now
(37) (a) Move transitive (b) MoveReflex dynanic
ngu-dum-Ø-fel. ball ngu-dem-fel
1sgA-Move-3sgO-bounce.ball 1sgS-Move.refl-bounce
I bounced the ball I jumped (lit. I bounced myself)
(38) (a) ‘Mouth’ transitive (b) ‘Mouth’ Reflex
we-yim-ngiti-figulgul di-weny-figulgul
3sgA-Mouth-1sg.goal-stir 3sgS-Mouth.refl-stir
He talked me into it He psyched himself up
(39) (a) Poke transitive (b) PokeReflex
nga-rim-Ø-fipal nga-rany-fipal
1sgA-Poke-3sgO-bend.back 1sgS-Poke.refl-bend.back
I bent it (a reed so the two I returned
ends touch)
(40) (a) Move transitive (b) MoveReflex dynamic
ngu-dum-Ø-garri-fityi ngu-deny-garri-fityi
1sgA-Move-3sgO-leg-roll 1sgS-Move.refl.dyn-leg-roll
I crossed his legs I crossed my legs
Ngan'gityemerri 349
(c) MoveReflex stative
ngi-n-garri-fityi
1sgS-Move.refl.stat-leg-roll
I am crosslegged
3.7 ‘Reflexive’ finite verbs plus monovalent coverbs
We noted above that ‘transitive’ finite verbs can be combined with mono-
valent coverbs to produce causative readings. Consistent with this patterning,
we also find that ‘reflexive’ finite verbs combine with monovalent coverbs to
produce reflexive causatives. The combination of the monovalent coverb wurr
‘enter’ with ‘intransitive’ finite verb ‘Go’, with ‘transitive’ finite verb ‘Move’,
and with ‘reflexive’ finite verb ‘Move.refl’, giving intransitive, causative and
reflexive-of-a-causative readings respectively, are set out in (41–43) below:
(41) Nga-ganiny-wurr
1sgS-Go-enter
I entered
(42) Ngu-dum-Ø-wurr debi-werre
1sgA-Move-3sgO-enter leg-associative
I dressed him (I put him in trousers; causative)
(43) Ngu-deny-wurr debiwerre.
1sgS-Move.refl.dyn-enter leg-associative
I got dressed (I put myself into trousers; causative and reflexive)
3.8 Impersonal verbs: monoreferential transitive complex verbs
Ngan'gityemerri has a complex verb construction that is formally transitive,
morphologically coding both A and O with verbal affixes, but which is essen-
tially monoreferential, having only a single semantic argument. These are
verbs of emotion and experience of physical, cognitive and psychological
states and processes, and they are formed exclusively with a small subset of
‘transitive’ finite verbs (‘Bash’, ‘Hands’, ‘Poke’, ‘Mouth’, ‘See’). Such verbs
have ‘fixed’ 3sg A-marking which is non-referential, and undergoer/experiencer
O-marking. This construction type is typical of ‘impersonals’ in having a
foregrounded O, but O remains marked as O. However, this cannot be thought
of as a subject-backgrounding construction, because of the non-referentiality
of the subject.
(44) danging-ngi-ge-da (45) de-m-ngi-pi-yiri
3sgA.Poke-1sgO-belly-hit 3sgA-Hands-1sgO-head-numb
I’m feeling sad I feel shamed
350 Nicholas Reid
(46) be-nging-ngi-perrety (47) be-nging-ngirr-ge
3sgA-Bash-1sgO-cold/dead 3sgA-Bash-1pl.excO-belly
I’m cold We’re happy
(48) we-Ø-ngi-ge-wurr (49) be-ngim-ngi-dirr
3sgA-Mouth-1sgO-belly-enter 3sgA-Bash-1sgO-teeth
I need to get my breath back I’ve got a toothache
(50) di-nyinggin-ngi-ngini-pup (51) de-nging-ngirr-tyerr-yiri
3sgA-See-1sgO-body-rub 3sgA-Hands-1pl.excO-mouth-numb
I feel ill at ease (sense unease We feel uncomfortable talking
in my body, feel something is together (being sisters)
wrong)
Impersonal verbs can conceivably be thought of as having vague ‘causers’
(the ‘Law’ makes us uncomfortable talking, the temperature/wind makes me
cold, etc.), but these constructions cannot include overt agentive NPs. As is
evident from the examples above, many impersonal verbs include incorpor-
ated bodypart terms, which denote ‘locus of sensation’ in the undergoer O’s
body. These bodypart morphemes also cannot be interpreted as the As of this
construction. Bodypart terms can be agents of verbs which have the whole/
owner cross-referenced as O, as in (52) below, but bodyparts in agentive
roles are blocked from incorporation.
(52) tyi-ninggi da-ngim-ngi-(*tyi)pawal-nyine
breast-agt 3sgA-Poke-1sgO-(breast)spear-foc
My breasts are starting to poke out now (lit. starting to spear me)
Some difficulties do arise in determining whether a given verb is im-
personal, but there are two criteria we can draw on. The best criterion is
monoreferentiality. Verbs of this type are never translated by Ngan'gityemerri
speakers into English using 3sg transitive subjects, but rather using corre-
sponding intransitive undergoer/experiencer-as-S constructions, or agentless
passives (as suggested by the translations provided above). There can be dif-
ficulties in applying this test though. For instance Ngan'gityemerri speakers
are prone to translating transitive verbs, with distinctly referential A and O,
by passive constructions, or by switching to a verb with a completely differ-
ent argument structure (especially where O is 1st person). Thus example (53)
below which has 2sg Agent and 1sg Object was freely translated by my diction-
ary co-compiler as ‘I can’t take it from you any more’.
(53) yu-dupung-ngi-ge-wirr
2sgA-Move-1sgO-belly-enter
You’ve pushed me too far (I can’t take it from you any more)
Ngan'gityemerri 351
Note though that even where speakers provide such reworkings, they main-
tain reference to two arguments. In contrast ‘impersonal’ verbs are only ever
strictly monoreferential.
The second criterion is that ‘impersonal’ verbs cannot sustain manipulation
of the person or number category of A. Non-referential A is fixed as 3sg.
Thus some verbs that might first appear to be candidates for impersonal
verbs, such as (54):
(54) da-nging-ngi-da
3sgA-Poke-1sgO-itch
It’s itching me (I’m itchy?)
turn out to be demonstrably not impersonal verbs because they can have
plural A (because A has referents):
(55) war-ring-ngi-da
3plA-Poke-1sgO-itch
They’re itching me (i.e. Some ‘itchy grubs’ are itching me)
4 Morphological derivations
4.1 Adding a presentative argument by giving the verb an ‘eye’
As noted in §1 (and already evidenced in examples (27–29)), many verb stems
in Ngan'gityemerri are compounds made up of coverbs and incorporated
bodypart terms. There is a set of about thirty-five bodypart terms that undergo
incorporation, and this is a pervasive and highly distinctive feature of
Ngan'gityemerri morphosyntax. Analysis of the contemporary Ngan'gityemerri
verb stem benefits from a distinction between lexical and syntactic incorpora-
tion of bodypart morphemes.
Lexical incorporation is a compounding process that takes a bodypart
morpheme and a coverb, and from them derives a new verb stem. Lexical
incorporation is non-productive, cannot be paraphrased by having the body-
part noun appear outside the verb, and the meaning of lexical bodypart+coverb
stems is typically compositional and implicit, and not amenable to description
in terms of syntactic relations. Thus tyeribaty in (56) below is a lexically com-
pounded verb stem meaning ‘listen’, so tyeri is not omittable, nor can it be
productively substituted by any other bodypart morphemes.
(56) ngi-bem-mbi-tyeri-baty
1sgS-Lie-2sg.goal-ear-hold
I’m listening to you
352 Nicholas Reid
Syntactic incorporation on the other hand, is ‘optional’, in the sense that
the construction can be paraphrased by extracting the bodypart noun and
having it appear as a free-form noun external to the verb. Syntactic incorpora-
tion is productive, and constrained to where certain predictable grammatical
relations hold between the incorporated nominal and predicate (prototypic-
ally, where bodypart possessors are the objects or locatives of transitive verbs).
Thus, in (57) below, panmi either could appear outside the verb, or indeed
could be substituted by firr ‘foot’, garri ‘leg’, purr ‘bottom’, etc.:
(57) da-ngim-fi-panmi-tyat (da-panmi)
3sgA-Poke-applic-crotch-place (bp-crotch)
He placed it in the fork (of the tree)
The discourse function of syntactic incorporation is essentially a backgrounding
one. For a fuller description of bodypart incorporation in Ngan'gityemerri,
readers are referred to Reid (1990), while general description of the distinc-
tion between lexical and syntactic incorporation can be found in Evans (1996:
72–3). For the purpose of this discussion, we can set aside lexical incorpora-
tion, and look at the set of syntactically incorporable bodypart terms.
One of the set of bodypart terms that is available for syntactic incorpora-
tion is muy ‘eye’, which reduces to mi under incorporation.8
In some cases
incorporated mi can be fairly readily shown to have the usual object/locative
kinds of argument relations with the verb, cropping up in verbs where ‘eye’ is
demonstrably syntactically incorporated in an undergoer/patient type of role.
(58) wu-dupung-ngi-mi-pit
3sgA-Move-1sgO-eye-rub
He rubbed ash in my eye
(59) di-nging-ngi-mi-wul
3sgA-Mouth-1sgO-eye-water
It made my eye water
Incorporated mi- extends metaphorically from reference to ‘eye’ as a
bodypart specifically, to the ‘face’ more generally,9
and then to reference to
activity involving ‘spots’ – that is, activity that involves seeds or other small
round eye-like things generally, activity that takes place in holes in the ground
or places that represent foci of human activity (freshwater springs, hearths, etc.).
8
Cross-linguistically, morphological reduction or suppletion is common under incorporation.
However, mi- is the only one of the thirty-five Ngan'gityemerri bodypart terms available for
syntactic incorporation that undergoes such reduction.
9
E.g. Minde nginyingginy-nyi-mi-yilil ‘I didn’t recognize your face’. The independent noun muy
‘eye’ also extends to reference to the face, but does not extend to the other meanings available
to mi-. However, muy does frequently crop up in compounds denoting seeds, small eye-like
things, holes in the ground, etc.
Ngan'gityemerri 353
(60) ngu-pun-Ø-mi-wuty
1sgA-Slash-3sgO-eye-throw
I threw (tealeaf) into the billy (where ‘eye’ is the round open top of the
billy)
(61) di-nem-Ø-mi-ferr
3sgA-Heat-3sgO-eye-warm
She warmed the food in the fire (fire is the ‘eye’)
(62) da-ngim-Ø-mi-tuntum yewirr
3sgA-Poke-3sgO-eye-bury tree
He planted a row of trees (each hole is an ‘eye’)
Indeed, there are many examples where both literal and extended senses of
incorporated mi- are readily available. Thus we need only remove the specific
1sgO pronoun from example (58) to allow the ‘small round eye-like thing’
reading in addition to the literal ‘eye as location’ reading:
(63) wu-dupung-Ø-mi-pit
3sgA-Move-3sgO-eye-rub
either: He rubbed ash in her eye
or: He rubbed up a ball (e.g. of chewing tobacco; where this ball is the
‘eye’)
The verb in (63) is thus vague, with the interpretation of mi- on a scale of
literal to metaphorical readings being entirely context-dependent. This kind
of process, whereby incorporated bodypart terms develop a range of extended
meanings, is typical across the range of syntactically incorporable bodypart
terms in Ngan'gityemerri. As our interest is in mi- specifically, there is no
need to discuss here the full range of extended meanings for all thirty-five
incorporable bodypart terms. For a fuller account see Reid (1990), but there
is a short list in table 10.6 to give an indication of the kinds of meaning
extension involved:
Table 10.6. Extended senses of some incorporable bodypart terms
backs: humps, ridges, outsides of buildings
chest: hollows, riverbeds, insides of buildings
neck: pathways, intersecting trajectories
bladder: rupturable things, animal guts, balloons, etc.
nose: extended points, bonnet of car, headland, etc.
mouth: openings, lids, doorways, etc.
arm: creeks, small rivers
shins: cylindrical things, tree trunks, etc.
354 Nicholas Reid
Where mi- is functioning simply as an incorporated bodypart term with
‘eye’ or ‘eye-extended’ semantics, then it appears to not interact with the
transitivity of the verb, simply adding locative/patient-type information. Con-
sider the pair of verbs below, both transitive, where the addition of mi- to the
coverb wuty ‘throw’ means ‘throw into a round thing’, i.e. it specifies the
‘location/shape of target’ of the verb ‘throw’, but the addition of mi- has no
effect on transitivity:
(64) ngu-pun-Ø-wuty (65) ngu-pun-Ø-mi-wuty
1sgA-Slash-3sgO-throw 1sgA-Slash-3sgO-eye-throw
I threw it out I threw it into the billycan
However, there are clearly cases where mi- has moved in the direction of
doing grammatical work coding an increase in valency. From its ‘eye/face’
semantics, mi- has come to specify activity that is somehow performed ‘face-
to-face’ with another person, carried out ‘in the sight of’ or ‘in the presence
of’ some other person. In many such cases mi- has no effect on the formal
transitivity of the verb. In §3.2 we saw that monovalent coverbs can combine
with ‘transitive’ finite verbs and cross-reference their objects within the verb,
without the need for mi- derivation. In a sense, then in examples like (67) and
(69), the presence of mi- is redundant as a potential marker of transitivity, and
here perhaps its ‘face-to-face’ semantics is its primary contribution to the verb.
(66) yi-rin-di (67) nge-rin-nyi-mi-di
2sgS-Sit-cry 1sgA-Hands-2sgO-eye-cry
You cried I made you cry
(68) wi-rribem-fafala (69) wu-pun-ngi-mi-fafala
3sgS-Stand-wave 3sgA-Slash-1sgO-eye-wave
She’s waving She’s signing to me
This sense that applicative mi- brings, of activity carried out ‘in person’ in
the presence of some other entity, is not unique to its incorporated role. There
is in Ngan'gityemerri a free nominal expression damuy-ninggi (eye-instr)
with precisely this meaning. Thus example (71) below can be more fully
worded as example (70):
(70) da-muy-ninggi ngu-dupun-Ø-mi-wul
bp-eye-instr 1sgA-Move-3sgO-eye-return
I personally took him back. (in contrast to arranging more indirectly for him
to be taken back; lit. I took him back using my eyes)
There are, however, several other more explicit indicators that mi- in-
creases the transitivity of the verb. Firstly, we noted above that verbs with
Ngan'gityemerri 355
‘transitive’ finite verbs and bivalent coverbs can be made reflexive through
the substitution of a ‘reflexive’ finite verb. Such verbs are formally intransit-
ive, and semantically lose the sense of ‘face-to-face’ interaction because they
are single-argument verbs. With this shift in transitivity, applicative mi- is
dropped from all reflexive verbs.
(71) ngu-dupun-Ø-mi-wul (72) wu-dem-wul
1sgA-Move-3sgO-eye-return 3sgS-Move.refl.dyn-return
I took him back He went back (lit. He took himself
back)
Secondly, in several cases applicative mi- prefixes monovalent coverbs in
combination with ‘low transitive’ finite verbs, forming verbs which, while
formally transitive, involve low patient affectivity and have subject focus.
These cases appear to involve genuine derivation, where the affixation of mi-
to a monovalent coverb derives a transitive bivalent verb stem and it is in this
sense that ‘eye’ can be shown to have developed a function that is valency-
changing. Consider (73) below, where wap is a coverb meaning ‘sit/camp/
live’, and (75) where tyerr is a coverb meaning ‘halt’. The verbs in (73) and
(75) are intransitive, each combining an ‘intransitive’ finite verb and a mono-
valent coverb. In (74) and (76) the mi-derived bivalent coverbs miwap ‘sit/
camp/live in the presence of (someone else)’ and mityerr ‘stop in the pres-
ence of (someone)’ are transitive. Each of these verbs now codes its pro-
moted O by the expected object suffixes to the finite verb.
(73) ye-nim-wap wunu (74) ye-nim-ngi-mi-wap
3sgS-Go-sit there 3sgA-Go-1sgO-prsntv.applic-sit
She lives there She lives with me (She’s married to me)
(75) nga-ni-tyerr-pe (76) nga-ni-nyi-mi-tyerr-pe
1sgS-Go-halt-fut 1sgA-Go–2sgO-prsntv.applic-halt-fut
I’m going to pull up I’m going to pull up in front of you
Recall that combining an ‘intransitive’ finite verb with a low transitive bival-
ent coverb produces low transitive verbs characterized by barely affected
patients. Those mi-derived verbs formed with ‘intransitive’ finite verbs are
quite consistent with this.
It isn’t always easy to distinguish between mi- functioning as a bodypart
and mi- functioning as an applicative. Examples (67) and (69) above demon-
strate this difficulty most clearly. While mi- is argued here to have derived a
new function as an extension of its bodypart-term semantics, mi- nevertheless
occupies the same morphological slot within the complex verb structure as
356 Nicholas Reid
incorporated bodypart morphemes. Further, it is probably true that mi- func-
tioning as an applicative can still be thought of as retaining its bodypart-term
semantics to at least some extent.10
In summary, mi- can be incorporated into the verb with literal bodypart
semantics, and it has further developed the extended senses of: face, seeds,
balls, spots, etc. From the extended ‘face’ semantics, mi- has come to specify
verbal activity carried out ‘face-to-face’ or ‘in the presence of’ another per-
son. Furthermore, there are examples of mi- doing clearly grammatical work
in altering the valency of verb stems by promoting presentative arguments
for object-marking. This data seems to demonstrate the development in
Ngan'gityemerri of a presentative applicative verbal derivation from an incorp-
orated bodypart term, which cross-linguistically is not a common source of
applicatives.
4.2 Locative applicative bodypart coverbs
There is a minor construction in Ngan'gityemerri which has direct parallels
with the ‘eye-derived’ construction. Low transitive bivalent coverbs can be
derived by the locative applicative morpheme ngan- being prefixed to bodypart
terms. This allows for the promotion of an additional argument into the object
slot. All such derived verbs involve being positioned with respect to someone
else’s body, and that someone else is the promoted object, e.g.:
(77) ngi-rim-nyi-ngan-wanytyirr
1sgA-Sit-2sgO-loc.applic-armpit
I’m sitting at your side [focus on subject posture/location]
(78) yi-m-ngi-ngan-derri
2sgA-Lie-1sgO-loc.applic-back
Spoon up behind me! [focus on subject posture/location]
(i.e. Lie curled up behind me with your chest to my back)
As noted for mi-derived verbs, combining an ‘intransitive’ finite verb with a
low transitive bivalent verb root produces low transitive verbs characterized
by barely affected patients. These ngan-derived verbs formed with ‘intrans-
itive’ finite verbs are also consistent with this patterning.
10
In working through all the Ngan'gityemerri verbs with mi-derived verb stems with linguistic-
ally sophisticated native speakers, in every case they attempted to construct an explanation of
the role of mi- in terms of the meaning ‘eye’ (or at least in terms of its extended bodypart
senses – orifice, fire, etc.). Thus, even in the case of verbs like that in example (74), speakers
explain that ‘being married to someone’ is having the kind of relationship where you ‘keep an
eye on each other’.
Ngan'gityemerri 357
5 Conclusion
In §4 we saw that Ngan'gityemerri does indeed have some minor but genuine
morphological derivations that increase valency. Specifically it has developed
presentative and locative applicatives that allow for the promotion of O argu-
ments into verbs that are otherwise intransitive. However, beyond these minor
applicatives, the main strategies for encoding and manipulating valency in
verbal constructions are non-derivational ones.
Ngan'gityemerri’s system of ‘complex verbs’ means that all verbs are con-
structed by pairing a non-inflecting coverb with one of the set of thirty-one
finite verbs. Among the set of finite verbs, some are clearly intransitive,
others are transitive, and a third subset are the intransitive reflexive equival-
ents of some of the transitive ones. In §3 we saw that a given coverb can be
fairly freely combined with different finite verbs, and that these collocational
possibilities signal alternations in the valency of complex verbs. However, it
is important to note that coverbs have no independent occurrence, and that
there is little clear evidence suggesting that certain finite verb + coverb com-
binations are privileged or basic in any sense. The criteria for derivation
employed by Dixon and Aikenvald (1997) include formal morphological
marking and an underlying construction from which another construction
type can be got to (i.e. the notion of ‘direction’ in derivation). With respect to
Ngan'gityemerri, it should be clear that finite verb + coverb collocations
represent alternative strategies, none morphologically derived from another.
Are there any other criteria for determining ‘basicness’? In some cases
there is a temptation to view one construction type as more basic in terms of
semantic complexity. For example, in §3.2 we discussed a construction where
a monovalent coverb can combine with both ‘transitive’ and ‘intransitive’
finite verbs. Combination with an ‘intransitive’ finite verb (as in example
(79)) produces a regular intransitive verb. Combination with a ‘transitive’
finite verb produces a causative verb (as in example (80)).
(79) nga-ganiny-wurr (80) ngu-dum-Ø-wurr
1sgS-Go-enter 1sgA-Move-3sgO-enter
I went in I put it in (caused it to enter)
Here it is tempting to argue for ‘basicness’ in terms of semantic complexity,
i.e. to view causatives as being derived by virtue of their representing a kind
of ‘macro situation’ involving two micro-situations, one of which is the
intransitive construction. This view of causatives (put forward by Comrie
358 Nicholas Reid
1981 (158), Frawley 1992 (159) and others) has been reworked by Dixon
(chapter 2, this volume) who defines causatives as ‘the specification of an
additional argument, a causer, onto a basic clause . . . That is, a causative
derivation involves the addition of a new argument in A function.’ With
respect to Ngan'gityemerri, it should be clear that the morphology of the
language lends no support to such a resolutely derivational definition. As
Dixon mentions in chapter 2, Ngan'gityemerri employs a syntactic strategy –
of exchanging auxiliaries – which is functionally equivalent to the causative
derivation in other languages.
In other cases we find finite verb+coverb combinations that have limited
distribution. For example, the pairing of ‘intransitive’ finite verbs with high
transitive bivalent coverbs (§3.5), which corresponds to a valency-reducing
anticausative, is only found with a small subclass of high-impact coverbs
(‘break’, ‘sink’, ‘boil’, etc.). Likewise the impersonal verb construction (§3.8)
can readily be thought of as ‘marked’ by virtue of the strict restrictions
applying to A person/number-marking categories (3rd singular), and to the
small range of verb types (emotions, experience of physical and psycho-
logical states and processes) that it applies to. However, markedness does not
imply non-basicness (where ‘non-basic’ is understood to involve derivation
from some underlying structure). Indeed it is not at all clear what kind of
underlying structure ‘impersonal verbs’ could possibly derive from.
‘Reflexive’ finite verb choice can also readily be thought of as ‘marked’
on fairly compelling distributional grounds if not on morphological ones,
i.e. verbs selecting ‘reflexive’ finite verbs involve the kinds of activity that
usually involve distinct NPs in A and O roles, but reflexive verbs are a
subset of such verbs where A and O are coreferential (triggering a switch
to formal intransitivity). Constructions with limited distribution, such as
anticausatives, reflexives and impersonals, may then provide some marginal
evidence in support of the markedness of some construction types, but say
nothing about their (non-)basicness. Moreover, for the bulk of Ngan'gityemerri
verbs, especially those where low transitive bivalent coverbs combine with
either ‘transitive’ or ‘intransitive’ finite verbs, we find no change to argument
structure, and no unambiguously determinable difference in transitivity –
just varying focus on the degree of patient affectivity. In this sense then,
Ngan'gityemerri has a rich array of devices for encoding valency and
transitivity, but this is achieved through alternate finite verb and coverb
collocations, not through directed morphological derivation from underly-
ing forms.
Ngan'gityemerri 359
References
Capell, A. 1976. ‘Rapporteur’s introduction and summary to simple and compound
verbs: conjugation by auxiliaries in Australian verbal systems’, pp. 615–25 of
Grammatical categories in Australian languages, ed. R.M.W. Dixon. Canberra:
Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies.
Comrie, B. 1981. Language universals and linguistic typology. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Cook, A. 1987. ‘Wagiman Matyin: a description of the Wagiman language of the
Northern Territory’. Ph.D. thesis. La Trobe University, Melbourne.
Dixon, R.M.W. and Aikenvald, A.Y. 1997. ‘A typology of argument-determined con-
structions’, pp. 71–113 of Essays on language function and language type, ed.
J. Bybee, J. Haiman and S.A. Thompson. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Evans, N. 1996. ‘The syntax and semantics of bodypart incorporation in Mayali’,
pp. 65–109 of The grammar of inalienability, ed. H. Chappell and W. McGregor.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Frawley, W. 1992. Linguistic semantics. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Hopper, P.J. and Thompson, S. 1980. ‘Transitivity in grammar and discourse’, Lan-
guage 56.251–99.
McGregor, W. 1990. A functional grammar of Gooniyandi, Studies in Language Com-
panion Series 22. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Merlan, F. 1989. Mangarayi. London: Routledge.
Reid, N. 1990. ‘Ngan'gityemerri: a language of the Daly River region, Northern
Territory of Australia’. Ph.D. thesis. Canberra, Australian National University.
forthcoming, ‘Phrasal verb to synthetic verb: recorded morphosyntactic change in
Ngan'gityemerri’. In Proceedings of the Conference on Non PamaNyungan Lin-
guistics, ed. N. Evans. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
360 Bernard Comrie
11 Valency-changing derivations in Tsez
BERNARD COMRIE
1 Introduction and background
Tsez, also known as Dido, is one of the Tsezic languages spoken in western
Daghestan in the Caucasus, by about 7,500 speakers in the Tsez villages of
western Daghestan and perhaps a further 6,500 speakers in lowland areas of
Daghestan. A traditional view of the genetic relations of the Tsezic languages
within the larger framework of Daghestanian and Nakh-Daghestanian (also
called North-East Caucasian, East Caucasian) languages is presented in (1),
although many details are subject to revision as more intensive work on the
comparative linguistics of the Daghestanian languages proceeds.
(1) Nakh-Daghestanian (North-East Caucasian, East Caucasian)
Nakh
Chechen, Ingush, Tsova Tush
Daghestanian
Avar–Andi–Tsez
Avar
Andic
Tsezic
Tsez, Hinukh, Khwarshi, Bezhta, Hunzib
Lak–Dargwa
Lak, Dargwa
Lezgic (incl. Lezgian)
The Nakh-Daghestanian languages in general are not noted for having
grammatical voice systems, and Tsez is in this respect by no means atypical.
Tsez does, however, have a number of lexical derivations that change valency.
Tsez 361
The body of this chapter is devoted to the description and analysis of such
phenomena.1
In order to understand the discussion of clause types and diathesis in the
body of the chapter, some preliminary information relating to Tsez morpho-
logy is necessary. Tsez has four noun classes. Noun class is a covert category,
showing itself in agreement, in particular in agreement prefixes on (nearly
all) vowel-initial verbs. (Other verbs show no agreement whatsoever. Verbs
that show agreement can only agree with an argument in the absolutive case.)
The agreement prefixes are set out in (2), together with a rough semantic
characterization of each of the four classes. Note that in the plural there is
only a two-way distinction, between class I and classes II–IV.
(2) sg pl
I Ø- male human b-
II y- female human; some inanimate
III b- animals; some inanimate r-
IV r- inanimate
Two rules recur throughout Tsez phonology. One drops a vowel before
another vowel, e.g. uQi ‘boy’, ergative uQ-a. The other inserts the vowel e to
break up consonant clusters, other than clusters of two consonants inter-
vocalically, e.g. is ‘bull’, lative is-er (cf. uQi ‘boy’, lative uQi-r). Also related
to syllable structure is a morphologically conditioned rule whereby certain
suffixes, including both nominal and verbal suffixes, have the shape CV
except word-finally after a vowel, when they have the shape C, e.g. super
(expressing location on) -L’(o), past unwitnessed -s(i).
Tsez nouns have a rich case system, in addition to a singular–plural num-
ber opposition; to avoid unnecessary complications, only singular nouns are
considered here. The absolutive case is used as the citation form. Some
nouns simply attach case inflections to a stem identical to the absolutive case,
e.g. uQi ‘boy’, lative uQi-r. Other nouns have an oblique stem distinct from
the absolutive, e.g. kid ‘girl’, ergative kidb-a. The richness of the case system
1
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant
SBR-9220219, and includes material contributed by Maria Polinsky and Ramazan Rajabov.
Note that the trio S, A, P is used in this chapter rather than the S, A, O of most other con-
tributions, to avoid a terminology that could be misinterpreted as saying that the prototypic-
ally patient-like argument of a two-place predicate is necessarily, or even prototypically, a
syntactic object; see further Comrie (1978). While this distinction does reflect a significant
difference in philosophical standpoint, for the purposes of this chapter the two sets of terms
can be taken as notationally equivalent. To avoid confusion between noun class I and the 1st
person singular pronoun, the latter is glossed as ‘me’.
5
6
7
362 Bernard Comrie
resides primarily in the local cases, many of which combine morphemes for
up to three spatial parameters, for instance orientation and direction, as in
super:lative besuro-L’o-r ‘fish-super-lat’, i.e. ‘onto the fish’, where -L’(o)
indicates orientation (super, ‘on top of’), and -r indicates direction (lative,
‘to’); compare super:ablative besuro-L’-ay ‘off the fish’ (ablative, ‘from’) and
super:essive (essive, ‘at’) besuro-L’; note that the essive series has no overt
formative. Labels such as ‘super:lative’ with an internal colon mean orienta-
tion ‘super’ and direction ‘lative’. A further point relative to noun declension
is that Tsez has two genitive cases, genitive-1 in -s used when the genitive is
dependent on a noun in the absolutive case, genitive-2 in -z when the genitive
is dependent on a noun in any other case.
Most issues relevant to verb morphology will occur in the body of the
chapter, but one preliminary note is necessary concerning the shape of Tsez
verb stems, i.e. the forms to which verbal inflectional morphemes are added.
Tsez verb stems may only end in a consonant or the vowels i or u. Stems that
would otherwise end in some other vowel take a final d, which appears as y
syllable-finally. Thus, the root of the verb ‘see’ is ikw
a-, as can be seen in its
causative ikw
a-r ‘show’, but its stem is ikw
ad-, as in the infinitive ikw
ad-a and
the present ikw
ay-xo.
For a fuller account of the above phenomena, and of Tsez grammar more
generally, reference may be made to Bokarev (1959), ImnajUvili (1963) and
Comrie, Polinsky and Rajabov (forthcoming).
2 Clause types
Constituent order in Tsez is grammatically free, although there is a tendency
towards SOV order, and this order has been generalized in the examples used
in this chapter.
The intransitive construction has a single argument (S) in the absolutive
case. If the verb belongs to the class of vowel-initial verbs that take an agree-
ment prefix, then the verb will agree in class with that single argument. No
distinction is made according to the degree of control, agentivity, volitionality,
etc., of the single argument, as is illustrated in sentences (3–4).
(3) is b-exu-s
bull.abs III-die-past.wit
The bull died
(4) eQru ¡ek’u qoqo-i-s
old man.abs laugh-past.wit
The old man laughed
Tsez 363
The basic construction for two-place predicates is the ergative construc-
tion, in which A stands in the ergative,2
P in the absolutive, and the verb, if
capable of showing agreement, agrees with the P in the absolutive case. This
is illustrated in (5), in which bizw
a is a class IV noun.
(5) ¡ek’-a biUw
a r-ac’-xo
man-erg food.abs IV-eat-pres
The man eats the food
The 1st person singular pronoun di and the 2nd person singular pronoun mi
exceptionally use the citation form not only for S and P, but also for A, as
illustrated in (6).
(6) di mi ¡ek’-si
me you hit-past.wit
I hit you
Most ditransitive verbs in Tsez are causatives, and will thus be dealt with
below in §3. The verb ‘give’, however, is a non-causative ditransitive verb. It
takes its A in the ergative, its P (the gift) in the absolutive, and the recipient
in either the lative (if the transfer is permanent) or the poss:lative (if the
transfer is temporary), as in (7–8).3
(7) Mal-a kidb-er surat te--si
Ali-erg girl-lat picture.abs give-past.wit
Ali gave a picture to the girl (for good)
(8) Mal-a kidb-eqo-r surat te--si
Ali-erg girl-poss-lat picture.abs give-past.wit
Ali gave a picture to the girl (as a loan)
There is one further kind of transitive construction worthy of mention, and
illustrated in (9).
(9) ¡ek’-a gulu-z (gugyo--’) Quret b-ok’-si
man-erg horse-gen2 back-super whip.abs III-hit-past.wit
The man hit the horse (on the back) with the whip
2
Most nouns have the ergative in -a, identical to the in:essive. However, some nouns with an
oblique stem ending in o have a zero ending in the ergative, e.g. gut’ ‘smoke’, genitive gut’yo-
s, ergative gut’yo. The fact that some nouns have an ergative distinct from the in:essive (and all
other case forms) justifies recognizing a distinct ergative case.
3
The orientation series glossed poss has a literal local interpretation ‘attached to a vertical
surface or to a downward facing horizontal surface’, as in ‘on the wall’, ‘on the ceiling’. How-
ever, in actual discourse it is much more frequently used to express the possessor in ‘have’
constructions, whence the choice of abbreviation in glossing this morpheme.
364 Bernard Comrie
The version of (9) including the parenthetical material is unproblematic,
and could be translated literally as ‘the man hit the whip on the horse’s back’.
Note that since ‘back’ is in an oblique case, the genitive-2 of ‘horse’ is required
(see §1). However, it is possible to omit the parenthetical material, in which
case the sense is ‘the man hit the horse with the whip’, with no particular part
of the horse in mind. Despite the peculiarity of having a genitive-2 without
any apparent understood head, the construction is clearly a sub-type of the
ergative construction, having an A in the ergative, a P in the absolutive, and,
for verbs of the appropriate class, agreement in class, with the P.
The same verbs as occur in the ergative construction can also occur in
another two-place predicate construction, the bi-absolutive construction, in
which both A and P occur in the absolutive case. The choice between ergative
and bi-absolutive constructions is determined by aspect. The ergative con-
struction is the basic choice. The bi-absolutive construction occurs only with
certain periphrastic verb forms; verb forms that are capable of agreeing do so
as follows: the lexical verb agrees with the P, the auxiliary verb agrees with
the A. In one periphrastic construction, with the imperfective converb of the
lexical verb and the auxiliary verb ‘be’, the bi-absolutive construction is
preferred, but the ergative construction is also possible, as in (10). In the other
periphrastic construction, with the imperfective converb of the lexical verb,
the resultative participle of the auxiliary verb ‘become’, and the auxiliary verb
‘be’, only the bi-absolutive construction is possible, as in (11).
(10) ¡ek’u/¡ek’-a biUw
a r-ac’-xo zow-si
man.abs/man-erg food.abs IV-eat-impfv.cvb be-past.wit
The man was eating the food
(11) ¡ek’u ¡in biUw
a r-ac’-xo Ø-iQ-asi yo4
man.abs still food.abs IV-eat-impfv.cvb I-become-res be.pres
The man is still engaged in eating the food
One of the characteristics of the Daghestanian languages is the existence of
a separate affective (or experiencer) construction, comprising two-place predic-
ate constructions in which the typically animate argument, often expressing
an experiencer, stands in an oblique case other than the ergative, the other
argument in the absolutive; if the verb is capable of taking agreement in class,
then it agrees with the absolutive argument. In Tsez, the experiencer stands in
the lative case, as in (12).
(12) a0o-r meUi b-ikw
ay-si
shepherd-lat calf.abs III-see-past.wit
The shepherd saw the calf
Tsez 365
There are other constructions similar to the affective construction, in that
they have a typically animate argument in an oblique case other than the
ergative and another argument in the absolutive. One of these constructions is
the potential of transitive verbs. The potential is formed by adding the suffix
-4 to the verb stem. If the verb is intransitive, then the construction remains an
intransitive construction, with its single argument in the absolutive. If, how-
ever, the verb is transitive, then the agent-like noun phrase appears not in the
ergative, but in the poss:essive, as in (13).
(13) k’et’u-q vM
ay 0a-u-4-xo
cat-poss milk.abs drink-pot-pres
The cat can drink the milk
In the accidental construction, the verb is lexically intransitive, but the
clause includes reference to the inadvertent agent by means of a noun phrase
in the poss:essive case, as in (14).
(14) u¡i-q Q’ikay y-exu-s
boy-poss glass.abs II-break-past.wit
The boy accidentally broke the glass
It must be emphasized that the verb exu- that appears in (14) is intransitive;
its transitive equivalent would be the causative exu-r; compare (15) and (16).
(15) Q’ikay y-exu-s
glass.abs II-break-past.wit
The glass broke
(16) u¡-a Q’ikay y-exu-r-si
boy-erg glass.abs II-break-caus-past.wit
The boy broke the glass
The bi-absolutive, potential and accidental constructions all illustrate ways
of ringing changes on the meaning of what would otherwise be an ergative
clause by changing case marking. But the differences among the three con-
structions are substantial. In the bi-absolutive construction, there is no evid-
ence of any valency change and there is no extra derivational morphology
relative to the ergative construction; the difference in case correlates with the
choice of periphrastic construction.4
In the potential construction, there is a
derivational morpheme, the potential suffix -4, which triggers the change in
4
One might argue that the bi-absolutive construction is bi-clausal, the upper clause being intrans-
itive with an S, the lower clause ergative with an expressed P and an understood A. However,
application of syntactic tests suggests on balance that the construction is mono-clausal. It may
well, of course, derive historically from a bi-clausal construction.
366 Bernard Comrie
case marking. In the accidental construction, although the resultant clause is
two-place, the lexical verb is one-place.
3 Transitivity and the lexicon
In the literature on Daghestanian languages, it is often said that so-called labile
verbs are characteristic of these languages, i.e. verbs that can be used either
intransitively or transitively, like English melt (the ice melted, John melted the
ice) with intransitive S corresponding to transitive P (S = P), or eat (Mary eats,
Mary eats the pizza) with intransitive S corresponding to transitive A (S = A).
Tsez, however, does not share in this. Tsez has no labile verbs of the S = P
type, and we have found no clear instances of labile verbs of the S = A type
either. Although this section will concentrate on S = P relations, an instance
of absence of S = A can be seen by comparing sentence (5) above with (17).
(17) Mali Ø-iU-xo
Ali.abs I-eat-pres
Ali eats
Tsez has morphologically unrelated stems ac’ ‘eat (vt)’ and iz ‘eat (vi)’.
For S = P pairs, Tsez usually has morphologically related verbs. There are
three possibilities. First, both transitive and intransitive verbs may have dis-
tinct suffixes, as in (18). In such pairs, the transitive suffix is always -k’, the
intransitive suffix either -4 or -x, lexically determined. This pattern is particu-
larly common where the verbs are derived from some other part of speech.
(18) Transitive (-k’) Intransitive (-4, -x) Compare
at’i-k’ ‘make wet’ at’i-4 ‘become wet’ at’iy ‘wet’
bito-k’ ‘move away (vt)’ bito-x ‘move away (vi)’ bittay ‘over there’
4ic’o-k’ ‘mix (vt)’ 4ic’o-x ‘mix (vi)’
Second, the intransitive member of the pair may be formed from the trans-
itive member by adding the suffix -nad, which thus serves as an anticausative
suffix, as in (19–20).5
(Recall from §1 that verbs whose stems end in d shift
this to y when syllable-final. The root ‘wash’ is esa-, extended to esad- before
inflectional suffixes, and this last form is modified to esay- syllable-finally.)
(19) pat’-a u¡i Ø-esay-xo
Fatima-erg boy.abs I-wash-pres
Fatima is washing the boy
5
This same suffix also serves to derive frequentative forms of some transitive and agentive
intransitive verbs, without any valency change, e.g. cax- ‘write’, cax-nad- ‘write frequently’,
k’ezad- ‘play’, k’eza-nad- ‘play frequently’.
Tsez 367
(20) pat’i ker-a y-esa-nay-xo
Fatima.abs river-in II-wash-detr-pres
Fatima is washing in the river
But by far the most common pattern in Tsez is for the transitive member of
the pair to be derived from the intransitive member, by means of the product-
ive causative suffix -r. Indeed, in terms of the typology set up by Haspelmath
(1993), Tsez is clearly a language that prefers basic intransitive inchoat-
ive verbs and derived transitive causative verbs corresponding to them. For
instance, Tsez has a basic intransitive verb esu- ‘be found’, from which the
transitive esu-r- ‘find’ is derived; contrast the formal markedness relation
shown by the English translations, or the more clearly derivational relation
between Russian transitive naxodit´ ‘to find’ and intransitive naxodit´-sja ‘to
be found’.
As indicated, the causative formation in Tsez, with the suffix -r (which will
appear as -er to avoid impermissible consonant clusters, following the gen-
eralization stated in §1), is productive. Addition of -r to an intransitive verb
in the intransitive construction produces a corresponding transitive verb in the
ergative construction, as in (21–22):
(21) meUi b-exu-s
calf.abs III-die-past.wit
The calf died
(22) a0-a meUi b-exu-r-si
shepherd-erg calf.abs III-die-caus-past.wit
The shepherd killed the calf
The construction as in (22) behaves like an ordinary transitive construction.
Thus, in the appropriate aspectual forms it will show up as a bi-absolutive con-
struction. Addition of the potential suffix after the causative suffix will give
rise to a potential-construction clause. (It is thus possible to form potentials of
causatives. It is not, however, possible to form causatives of potentials.)
However, it is also possible to form causatives of already transitive verbs,
thereby adding a further argument to express the causee. Such a causee
appears in the poss:essive case, as in (24) – note that this case is distinct from
that used for recipients of ‘give’, as in (7–8).
(23) QanaqM
an-a zey ¡ek’-si
hunter-erg bear.abs hit-past.wit
The hunter hit the bear
368 Bernard Comrie
(24) a0-a QanaqM
an-qo zey ¡ek’-er-si
shepherd-erg hunter-poss bear.abs hit-caus-past.wit
The shepherd made the hunter hit the bear
The question of causatives of affective verbs is more complex, and this is
one respect in which affective verbs may not all behave uniformly. The verb
ikw
a- ‘see’, as illustrated in (12), normally requires overt expression of both
its arguments.6
In the causative ikw
a-r- ‘show’, the agent is in the ergative and
the causee is in the poss:essive, just as if ikw
a- were an ordinary transitive
verb, i.e. (25) parallels (24). Note again that the case of ‘shepherd’ in (25) is
distinct from that of the recipient of a basic ditransitive verb like ‘give’.
(25) Mal-a a0o-q meUi b-ikw
a-r-si
Ali-erg shepherd-poss calf.abs III-see-caus-past.wit
Ali showed the calf to the shepherd
The verb esu- ‘find’ may also appear in the affective construction, but here
expression of the experiencer is optional, so that both (26) and (27) are
possible.
(26) meUi b-esu-s
calf.abs III-be.found-past.wit
The calf turned up
(27) a0o-r meUi b-esu-s
shepherd-lat calf.abs III-be.found-past.wit
The shepherd came across the calf
The causative of esu- ‘find’ is derived from the intransitive construction as in
(26), to give an ordinary ergative construction as in (28).
(28) a0-a meUi b-esu-r-si
shepherd-erg calf.abs III-be.found-caus-past.wit
The shepherd (sought and) found the calf
Another complication that needs to be considered is that some causative
verbs in Tsez have apparently been lexicalized. Thus, egir- ‘send’ seems, on
the basic of comparative evidence, to be historically the causative of egi-,
6
Tsez has the phenomenon of zero anaphora (null anaphora), so that it is not necessarily trivial
to establish which noun phrases are required by a predicate, given the problem of distinguish-
ing between an optional noun phrase and a noun phrase that can be omitted under conditions of
zero anaphora. But there does seem to be a clear semantic distinction between a sentence like
mezi b-esu-s ‘the calf turned up’, which is felt to be complete in isolation, and mezi b-ikw
ay-si
‘. . . saw the calf’, the latter only being possible where the experiencer is retrievable from the
context.
Tsez 369
although the latter means ‘fade’ in contemporary Tsez. If a verb has been
lexicalized, its valency may no longer reflect that of productively derived
causatives, and this might be an additional factor leading to differential beha-
viour of what are apparently causatives of affective verbs.
Finally, it should be noted that it is possible to have two causative suffixes
in sequence in Tsez, the semantic interpretation being the causative of a
causative, as in (29).
(29) uQitel-a u¡i-q kidb-eq keQ’ qM
a-i-r-er-si
teacher-erg boy-poss girl-poss song.abs sing-caus-caus-past.wit
The teacher made the boy make the girl sing a song
Note that both causees stand in the poss:essive case, given that the base verb
qr
aLi- is transitive. A textual example, slightly modified in irrelevant ways,
involving the causative of the causative of an intransitive verb is given in (30).
(30) di ¡ek’u-q re-’a r-iti-re-r-aQin
me man-poss hand.abs IV-touch-caus-caus-fut.def.neg
I will not allow the man to let his hand touch (me)
The verb iti- ‘touch’ is intransitive; the thing touched, if expressed, would be
in the poss:essive case.
4 The syntactic structure of Tsez clause types
So far, material has been presented on the morphological encoding of pre-
dicates and arguments in various constructions, and it is now time to turn to
criteria for the syntactic structure of these constructions. Three tests are con-
sidered below: word order, reflexives and obligatory coreferential noun phrase
deletion. With each test, the question posed is which noun phrase, if any, has
a privileged position with respect to the syntax, i.e. which noun phrase is
singled out as trigger or target of a particular syntactic phenomenon. It should
be emphasized that these three syntactic phenomena – word order, reflexives,
obligatory coreferential noun phrase deletion – are discussed here only in so
far as they provide evidence for the syntactic structure of the constructions
discussed in §3.
4.1 Word order
Given that Tsez word order is relatively free from a syntactic viewpoint, and
is largely determined by pragmatic factors (such as topic and focus status),
arguments for syntactic structure based on word order must be used with cau-
tion. Nonetheless, it does seem to be the case that the word orders presented
370 Bernard Comrie
in the examples in this chapter reflect the least marked order of constituents.
The noun phrase that is privileged for initial position in the clause would thus
seem to be the absolutive noun phrase (S) in the intransitive construction, the
ergative (A) noun phrase in the ergative construction, the A absolutive noun
phrase in the bi-absolutive construction, the lative (experiencer) noun phrase
in the affective construction, and the poss:essive (most agentive) noun phrase
in the potential and accidental constructions. Preposing of the absolutive
noun phrase in the two-place constructions (of the P absolutive noun phrase
in the bi-absolutive construction) seems to be pragmatically marked, involving
topicalization of that noun phrase.
4.2 Reflexives
The discussion of reflexivization below is derived from that of Comrie and
Polinsky (1997), concentrating on those points that are relevant to the syn-
tactic structures of different clause types. Incidentally, reciprocals behave like
reflexives in the relevant respects.
Tsez has two reflexive formations, both involving repetition of the personal
pronoun. In the first, the pronoun appears first in the ergative, then in the case
appropriate for the syntactic–semantic role of the reflexive. In the second,
available for all cases other than the absolutive, the pronoun appears first in
the case appropriate for the syntactic–semantic role of the reflexive, then in
the absolutive. Selected morphological forms are given in (31). In the remain-
der of this section, only the first type of reflexive will be exemplified, but
both have identical syntactic behaviour.
(31) Class I Classes II–IV
absolutive nes-a ¡e (*¡e ¡e) ne4-a ¡e (*¡e ¡e)
genitive nes-a nesi-s nesi-s ¡e ne4-a ne4o-s ne4o-s ¡e
lative nes-a nesi-r nesi-r ¡e ne4-a ne4o-r ne4o-r ¡e
super:essive nes-a nesi--’ nesi--’ ¡e ne4-a ne4o--’ ne4o--’ ¡e
The question relating to privileged syntactic position with reflexives is the
following: what noun phrase(s) can function as the antecedent for reflexive
pronouns in the various clause types? In the intransitive construction, the S
serves as antecedent, as in (32).
(32) pat’i ne4-a ne4o--’ qoqo-i-x
Fatima.abs she-erg she-super laugh-pres
Fatima is laughing at herself
In the ergative construction, in general it is the A noun phrase in the ergative
case that serves as antecedent, as in (33–34). Note that it makes no difference
Tsez 371
whether the target of reflexivization is the P, as in (33), or some other con-
stituent, as in (34).
(33) Mal-a nes-a ¡e ¡ek’-si
Ali-erg he-erg he.abs hit-past.wit
Ali beat himself
(34) Mal-a nes-a nesi-4-ay keQ’ b-oy-si
Ali-erg he-erg he-amg-abl song.abs III-make-past.wit
Ali wrote a song about himself
Things are, however, a little more complex when there is another potential
antecedent for the reflexive in an ergative clause, as in (35).
(35) Mal-a wacMal-qo-r nes-a nesi-4-ay Ø-a-’i-s
Ali-erg cousin-poss-lat he-erg he-amg-abl I-talk-past.wit
Ali talked to his cousin about himself
By far the preferred interpretation is to take the reflexive pronoun as core-
ferential with the ergative noun phrase. However, at least for some speakers,
there is a less preferred secondary interpretation with the reflexive pronoun
coreferential with ‘cousin’. This secondary interpretation is subject to heavy
restrictions that do not apply to the primary interpretation; for instance, the
possibility of the secondary interpretation disappears if the reflexive pronoun
is moved before wacral-qo-r, while the primary interpretation remains if
the reflexive pronoun is moved before ral-a. But it remains true that only
the ergative noun phrase is unconditionally available as an antecedent to the
reflexive pronoun in the ergative construction. Likewise in the bi-absolutive
construction, it is the A which serves as antecedent, as in (36).
(36) Mali nes-a ¡e ¡ek’-xo Ø-iQ-asi zow-si
Ali.abs he-erg he.abs beat-impfv.cvb I-be-res be-past.wit
Ali was engaged in beating himself
A more complex picture is presented by the affective construction. Con-
sider first an example where the coreferential noun phrases are the experiencer
in the lative and the other argument noun phrase in the absolutive, as in (37).
Here, the antecedent is necessarily the absolutive noun phrase, and the reflex-
ive shows up in the lative. This is critically different from the ergative con-
struction, and indeed from the evidence suggested in §4.1 using word order.
But note the word order in (37): the usual word order in the affective con-
struction is for the experiencer to precede the absolutive argument, but here
the preferred order is the inverse; preposing the lative noun phrase would
372 Bernard Comrie
have the effect of topicalizing it (or of focusing pat’i). Thus, reflexivization
in the affective construction seems to assign syntactic priority to the absolutive
noun phrase.
(37) pat’i ne4-a ne4o-r y-eti-x
Fatima.abs she-erg she-lat II-love-pres
Fatima loves herself
But before accepting this conclusion, consider further an example where one
of the coreferential noun phrases is neither the experiencer nor the absolutive
noun phrase, as in (38). Here, the antecedent is the experiencer noun phrase
in the lative case.
(38) Mali-r nes-a nesi-de pu0o t’aqM
r-ikw
ay-si
Ali-lat he-erg he-apud beside knife IV-see-past.wit
Ali saw a knife beside him
The overall behaviour of reflexivization in the affective construction suggests
that the experiencer is privileged except when it is coreferential with the
absolutive noun phrase, in which case the latter is privileged. This shift of
assignment of privilege is not found with the ergative construction.
Summarizing the behaviour of reflexives, we can say that the privileged
noun phrase, i.e. the antecedent of the reflexive, is usually the same as is
identified by word order, namely the absolutive noun phrase in the absolutive
construction, the ergative noun phrase in the ergative construction, and the A
absolutive noun phrase in the bi-absolutive construction, and even the experi-
encer in the affective construction when the reflexive pronoun is not absolutive.
The one exception concerns the relative ranking of experiencer and absolutive
noun phrases (and only these) in the affective construction, since word order
suggests that the experiencer is syntactically privileged, while reflexives sug-
gest that the absolutive noun phrase is privileged.
4.3 Obligatory coreferential noun phrase omission
The omission of noun phrases in Tsez is largely determined by pragmatic
factors, as would be expected in a language that allows zero anaphora. How-
ever, under certain highly restricted circumstances coreferential noun phrases
must be omitted, and it is this obligatory omission of coreferential noun
phrases that provides a test for the syntactic structure of clauses. Tsez typ-
ically combines clauses into complex sentences by using non-finite forms,
with the semantically and syntactically most neutral being the various converbs
(gerunds). In examples (39–42), the main clause is finite and in sentence-final
Tsez 373
position, preceded in each example by a non-finite, converbal clause. (But
note that in (42) the dependent clause guz pr
oLi-r-L’orey is internal to the
main clause.)
In such constructions, under conditions of coreference Tsez sometimes
requires that one noun phrase be omitted. Such an obligatorily omitted noun
phrase is always in the dependent clause. However, it is the syntactic status of
the coreferential noun phrase in the main clause that determines the obligatory
omission. In the intransitive construction, the S of the main clause requires
omission of a coreferential noun phrase in the dependent clause, as in (39).
(39) keQ’ qM
a-i-x, kid iduvor y-ik’i-s
song.abs sing-impfv.cvb girl.abs home II-go-past.wit
Singing songs, the girl went home
In the ergative construction, it is the ergative A noun phrase in the main
clause that determines obligatory omission of a coreferential noun phrase in
the dependent clause, as in (40).
(40) is ¡ek’-no, Momoy-a ne4o-r sis Maq’lu b-oy-no
bull.abs beat-pfv.cvb donkey-erg it-lat one advice-abs III-do-past.unw
The donkey beat up the bull, and then gave it a piece of advice
In the bi-absolutive construction, the A noun phrase again determines such
obligatory omission of a coreferential noun phrase in the dependent clause, as
in (41).
(41) keQ’ qM
a-i-x, kid u¡i ¡ek’-xo y-iQ-asi yo4
song.abs sing-impfv.cvb girl.abs boy.abs beat-impfv.cvb II-be-res be.pres
Singing songs, the girl is engaged in beating the boy
In the affective construction, the noun phrase in the main clause that triggers
obligatory coreferential deletion is the experiencer in the lative case, as in (42).
(42) Mali-r a0o, guz pM
o-i-r--’orey, Ø-esu-s
Ali-dat shepherd.abs rock.abs explode-caus.cvb I-find-past.wit
While (Ali was) blowing up the rock, Ali found a shepherd
The results of applying the obligatory coreference noun phrase omission
test are thus parallel to those obtained from word order. The syntactically
privileged noun phrase, in this case the noun phrase in the main clause that
requires deletion of a coreferential noun phrase in the dependent clause, is the
absolutive noun phrase in the absolutive construction, the ergative noun phrase
in the ergative construction, the A absolutive noun phrase in the bi-absolutive
construction, and the experiencer noun phrase in the affective construction.
374 Bernard Comrie
4.4 Summary of syntactic tests
The material in §4 can be summed up as follows. The choice of privileged
noun phrase in Tsez is in general independent of the morphology, in particular
there is no general principle of selecting absolutive noun phrases. The absolut-
ive noun phrase is normally only selected in the intransitive construction, while
elsewhere the most typically agentive or human noun phrase is selected. The
only exception concerns the very local relation between experiencer and
absolutive arguments in the affective construction, which may, as suggested in
Comrie and Polinsky (1997), reflect a stricter grammaticalization in this local
domain (arguments of the same predicate) on the basis of the morphology.
5 Conclusions
Although Tsez is not rich in the more obvious kinds of valency-changing
derivations that are found in most of the languages discussed in this volume,
it does present interesting material relating to the more general question
of valency. Different constructions are used depending on the valency and
semantics of the predicate; the differences are most noticeable at the morpho-
logical level, though the constructions also have interesting syntactic properties
that do not always coincide with the morphological distribution. And the poten-
tial and accidental constructions do show how the valency of a given lexical
predicate can be altered for semantic effect. Even languages that have rather
little valency-changing derivation can nonetheless throw light on this problem.
References
Bokarev, E.A. 1959. Cezskie (didojskie) jazyki Dagestana [The Tsezic (Didoic) lan-
guages of Daghestan]. Moscow: Izd-vo AN SSSR.
Comrie, B. 1978. ‘Ergativity’, pp. 329–94 of Syntactic typology: studies in the phe-
nomenology of language, ed. W.P. Lehmann. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Comrie, B. and Polinsky, M. 1997. ‘Reflexivization in Tsez’. Paper presented at NSL-
10, University of Chicago, May 1997, and submitted to the proceedings.
Comrie, B., Polinsky, M. and Rajabov, R. Forthcoming. ‘Tsezian languages’. In
Caucasian languages, ed. A. Harris and R. Smeets. London: Curzon Press.
Haspelmath, M. 1993. ‘More on the typology of inchoative/causative verb alterna-
tions’, pp. 87–120 of Causatives and transitivity, ed. B. Comrie and M. Polinsky.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
ImnajUvili, D.S. 1963. Didojskij jazyk v sravnenii s ginuxskim i xvarzijskim jazykami
[The Dido language in comparison with Hinukh and Khwarshi]. Tbilisi: Izd-vo
AN Gruzinskoj SSR.
Creek 375
12 Creek voice: beyond valency
JACK B. MARTIN
In chemistry, valency refers to the capacity of an atom or group of atoms to
combine in specific proportions with other atoms or groups of atoms.1
The
French linguist Lucien Tesnière is generally credited with introducing this
term to linguistics, where it is used metaphorically for the capacity of a verb
to combine with distinct arguments or valents (Crystal 1985). A verb like
rain, which has no referential noun phrases associated with it, is said to be
zero-place or avalent; a verb like disappear, which takes only a subject
argument, is said to be one-place or monovalent; verbs like devour and
give are said to be two-place (bivalent) and three-place (trivalent),
respectively.
This chemical metaphor has had a pervasive influence in linguistics: caus-
ative and applicative morphemes are now described as ‘adding arguments’,
while passives and middles are described as ‘suppressing’ or ‘deleting’ argu-
ments, respectively. Entire sections of grammars are devoted to ‘valency-
changing’, ‘valency-increasing’ or ‘valency-reducing’ processes, suggesting
that the primary function of these grammatical processes is to regulate the
number of arguments in clauses.
1
The title of this chapter extends a chain begun by Barber (1975) and continued by Croft
(1994). The phonemic transcription used here for Creek is based on Mary R. Haas’s work. The
phonemes are /p t c k f s A h m n w l y i i· a a· o o·/. /c/ is a voiceless palatal affricate; /A/ is
a voiceless lateral fricative. As a diphthong, /ay/ is pronounced and written /ey/; V· is a long
vowel. Primary stress (realized as the last high-pitch syllable in a word) is written with an
acute accent; ˆ and ˇ indicate falling tone and rising tone, respectively; n
indicates nasalization;
’ indicates a stressed word-initial syllable (usually resulting from aphaeresis).
I am grateful to Margaret McKane Mauldin and George Bunny for help with the Creek data
cited in this chapter, to Bob Dixon and Sasha Aikhenvald for organizing the workshop at
which these ideas were developed, and to Ann Reed and two anonymous reviewers for com-
ments. All mistakes are mine.
376 Jack B. Martin
The chemical metaphor contrasts with an older tradition that distinguishes
just two classes of predicates – transitive and intransitive – and a cat-
egory of voice. Passive voice and middle voice are seen within this tradition
as altering the ‘point of view’ or ‘centre of interest’ (Jesperson 1924: 167) within
a clause rather than applying mathematical operations to it, and causatives
and applicatives are sometimes included in, and sometimes excluded from,
the traditional range of voice-related phenomena.
There are important issues here that need to be researched and clarified.
One point distinguishing the theories of voice and valency, for example, is
the issue of the degree to which grammars have the ability to count. As an
analogy, one commonly reads descriptions of stress systems in which accent
is said to be placed on the third or fourth syllable from an edge, but these
have generally been replaced by more restrictive theories in which rhythm
operates in prosodic units of different sizes. In discovering this, we learn an
important fact about language: that while counting may be a basic human
cognitive process, it plays virtually no role in grammar.
To an extent, then, voice and valency are competing theories of clause
structure.
(a) The theory of valency claims that there are at least four distinct gram-
matical classes of predicate (zero-, one-, two- and three-place). The capacity
of a predicate to occur with different numbers of noun phrases can itself be
taken as a grammatical diagnostic of class membership, of course, but it is
not clear whether these classes have any independent motivation in grammars.
Given the four-way classification, we might expect that only one-place verbs
would be allowed as complements of causatives in a particular language, for
example, or that a certain allomorph of the past tense would be limited to
three-place verbs.2
In contrast, the traditional theory predicts that these phe-
nomena might be sensitive to transitivity.
(b) By stating that a process is ‘valency-reducing’, linguists are further
claiming that there is something in common among the various processes that
create intransitives from transitives. A two-place verb in a clause like John is
cooking the rice can in some languages be converted to what Dixon and
Aikhenvald (chapter 1) call an S = O intransitive (The rice is cooking) or an
S = A intransitive (John is cooking). If valency reduction is a valid linguistic
concept, we might expect that the same affix could be used in some language
to derive both of these one-place clauses. An account appealing to voice,
2
An example that comes close to this is Dixon’s (chapter 2) claim that Sonrai, Basque and
Abkhaz allow causativization of intransitive and simple transitive verbs, but not of ditransitives.
Creek 377
however, predicts that different grammatical devices will be used for these
two detransitivizing processes, since the S = A intransitive has the agent as
the centre of interest, while the S = O intransitive altogether avoids reference
to an external cause.
(c) Similarly, the theory of valency leads us to assume that causatives and
applicatives are essentially similar in functioning to increase the number of
arguments in a clause. Hence, we might expect that the same affix would
commonly signal both of these functions.3
If causatives and applicatives are
treated within a theory of voice, however, we would expect that they would
normally be signalled by different grammatical processes, since causation
manipulates the starting point of an event, while applicatives manipulate the
endpoint.
This chapter has two interrelated goals: (a) to provide a description of
phenomena within the traditional categories of voice and valency in Creek;
and (b) to argue that the concept of voice better describes the Creek system
than the concepts of valency increase or valency reduction. Creek is ideally
suited for such a study because it has a number of morphological operations
that can be thought of as changing voice or valency:
(1) (a) ta·c-ís ‘s/he is cutting it’ Active
(b) táck-i·-s ‘it is cut’ Middle -k-
(c) tácho·y-ís ‘they/people are cutting it’ Impersonal plural -ho-
(d) ín-ta·c-ís ‘s/he is cutting it for him/her’ Dative applicative im-
(e) ís-ta·c-ís ‘s/he is cutting it with it’ Instrumental applicative is-
(f ) tac-ípeyc-ís ‘s/he is making him/her cut it’ Indirect causative -ipeyc-
The processes deriving (1b– c) from (1a) could be called ‘valency-reducing’:
while two full noun phrases are possible in (1a), only a subject is possible in
(1b) and only an object is possible in (1c). Similarly, the processes in (1d–f)
could be called ‘valency-increasing’ because the addition of these affixes
allows the basic verb to sanction an additional argument. I will argue instead
that a speaker does not use the processes in (1b–f) to change the capacity of a
verb to combine with noun phrases, however, but to shift the centre of inter-
est in a clause. On this view, the middle in (1b) leads to a shift in attention
from the cause to the effect; the impersonal plural in (1c) shifts attention
away from the cause; the applicatives in (1d) and (1e) shift attention from
an effect to a secondary effect and manner, respectively; and the indirect
3
Indeed, Comrie (1989: 183) makes the claim that the suffix -al in Wolof is ‘a general indicator
of increase in valency’, serving both to indicate a causative (‘I will make the child sit’) and to
add an indirect object (‘He is reading his book to the pupils’). A similar claim is made for
Tolkapaya by Munro (1996).
378 Jack B. Martin
causative in (1f) shifts attention to a primary cause. An approach of this kind,
which supports and extends Croft’s (1994) conception of voice, leads to the
conclusion that changes in valency are side-effects of changes in point of
view. We include or omit noun phrases in clauses according to our ability to
incorporate them into a particular event view: valency is the codification of
that ability.
In §1 I provide an overview of Creek grammar and transitivity. §§2–7
describe the voice-related affixes in (1). §8 examines the interaction of these
markers.
1 Background
Creek, along with Chickasaw, Choctaw, Alabama, Koasati, Apalachee and
Hitchiti-Mikasuki, is a member of the Muskogean family of languages of
the southeastern United States. Creek literacy developed in the middle of
the nineteenth century. The description in this chapter has been aided by the
existence of a large number of letters, laws and stories written by Creek
speakers and by extensive field work by Mary R. Haas and others (see, e.g.
Haas 1940; Nathan 1977; Booker 1984; Hardy 1988, 1994).
The neutral word order in Creek is subject – object – verb. Subjects and
objects are commonly omitted when they are clear from context. Creek has a
nominative/non-nominative (‘oblique’) system of case marking in which -t
occurs at the end of a subject noun phrase and -n occurs at the ends of non-
subject noun phrases within a clause:
(2) (a) ifá-t wo·hk-ís
dog-nom bark:lgr-indic
A dog is barking
(b) ifá lást-i·-t fítta-n hôyA-is
dog black-dur-nom outside-oblq stand:fgr-indic
A black dog is standing outside
(c) ifá-t pó·si lást-i·-n á·ssi·c-ís
dog-nom cat black-dur-oblq chase:lgr-indic
A dog is chasing a black cat
In colloquial speech, nominative -t and oblique -n are sometimes omitted.
Related suffixes -it and -in indicate same-subject and different-subject
switch-reference marking of subordinate clauses:
(3) (a) ifá-t wo·hk-ít pó·si-n á·ssi·c-ís
dog-nom bark:lgr-ss cat-oblq chase:lgr-indic
The dog is barking and chasing the cat
Creek 379
(b) ifá-t wo·hk-ín pó·si-t á·ssi·c-ís
dog-nom bark:lgr-ds cat-nom chase:lgr-indic
The dog is barking and the cat is chasing him
In (3a), -it indicates that the subject of the first clause extends to the second
clause; in (3b), the use of -in signals a break that is often interpreted as a shift
from one subject to another.
Creek verb stems occur in one of several grades characterized by
suprasegmental changes that usually signal a change in aspect. Grades in
Creek include the zero-grade (e.g. wanáy-as ‘tie it!’), the level-pitch grade
(wana·y-ís ‘s/he is tying it’), the h-grade (wanáhy-is ‘s/he tied it (just now)’)
and the falling-tone grade (wanâ·y-is ‘s/he has tied it’).
Creek has two series of person markers corresponding most closely to a
distinction in agency (Martin 1991b). Because there are irregularities in the
semantics, I follow Munro and Gordon (1982) in labelling the two series
types I and II:
(4) type i (agentive) type ii (nonagentive)
na·fk-éy-s ‘I am hitting it/him/her’ ca-na·fk-ís ‘S/ he is hitting me’
hî·c-ey-s ‘I see it/him/her’ ca-hî·c-is ‘S/he sees me’
li·tk-éy-s ‘I am running’ ca-híc-i·-s ‘I can see’
lêyk-ey-s ‘I am sitting’ ca-láw-i·-s ‘I am hungry’
latêyk-ey-s ‘I fell (on purpose)’ ca-latêyk-is ‘I fell (accidentally)’
kô·m-ey-s ‘I think’ / ‘I want it’ ca-yá·c-i·-s ‘I need it’
As the first column in (4) reveals, type I person-marking is typically used for
most transitive subjects and for agentive (volitional) intransitive subjects.
Type II person-marking is used for most transitive objects and for nonagentive
intransitive subjects. A few transitive nonagentive verbs (e.g. ca-yá·c-i·-s ‘I
need it’) use type II person-marking for their subjects.
While I have resorted to the terms ‘transitive’ and ‘intransitive’ in the
previous paragraph, Creek lacks obvious diagnostics for these categories. In
English, a transitive verb is generally defined as a verb that can take a direct
object (e.g. John sees the town), while an intransitive verb is one that cannot
(*John is going the town). This distinction is not so clear-cut in Creek.
Consider the following:
(5) cá·ni ’taló·fa-n hî·c-is
John town-oblq see:fgr-indic
John sees the town
(6) cá·ni ’taló·fa-n ay-áha·n-ís
John town-oblq go:sg-fut:lgr-indic
John is going to town
380 Jack B. Martin
Since both of these verbs occur with objects in Creek, there is little motivation
for placing them in different classes.
There is an important distinction in Creek between a verb like ay- ‘go (of
one)’ and litk- ‘run (of one)’, however: as (6) shows, when ay- occurs with an
object, the object can be interpreted as a destination. The verb litk- does not
allow this:
(7) *cá·ni ’taló·fa-n lítk-aha·n-ís
John town-oblq run:sg-fut:lgr-indic
John is running to town
The sentence in (7) could only mean that the activity will take place in
town, as in a race. This locative reading is available to almost any predicate,
however:
(8) tálsi-n o·sk-acók-s
Tulsa-oblq rain:lgr-evid-indic
It is raining in Tulsa
To express destination with the verb litk-, the object must be mediated through
an applicative prefix (9a) or a postposition-like element (9b):
(9) (a) cá·ni ’taló·fa-n a-lítk-aha·n-ís / oh-lítk-aha·n-ís
John town-oblq at-run:sg-fut:lgr-indic / on-run:sg-fut:lgr-indic
John is running to town
(b) cá·ni ’talo·f-fácca-n lítk-aha·n-ís
John town-toward-oblq run:sg-fut:lgr-indic
John is running toward town
The distinction between the verbs ay- ‘go (of one)’ and litk- ‘run (of one)’ in
this respect is similar to the distinction between transitive and intransitive
verbs in English. One might therefore suggest that transitive verbs in Creek
assign specific thematic interpretations to their noun phrase objects, while
intransitive verbs do not:
(10) verbs not assigning interpretations to their objects
osk- ‘rain’, litk- ‘run’
verbs assigning interpretations to their objects
ay- ‘go’, hic- ‘see’, a-litk- ‘run to’, oh-litk- ‘run to’
This semantic distinction appears not to have entered the grammar of Creek,
however.
One might distinguish predicates based on the number of arguments they
allow or imply:
Creek 381
(11) zero-place predicates
osk- ‘rain’, atokyiha·tt- ‘flash lightning’, hayatk- ‘get to be day, dawn’
one-place predicates
litk- ‘run’, atotk- ‘work’
two-place predicates
ay- ‘go’, hic- ‘see’, a-litk- ‘run to’, oh-litk- ‘run to’, homp- ‘eat’, nafk- ‘hit’
three-place predicates
im- ‘give’, acca·y- ‘lean (one) against’, hompeyc- ‘feed’
Such a classification is based on the meanings assigned to noun phrases,
however, and the classification is not independently motivated in the grammar.
From this discussion, it appears that Creek is a language that lacks clear
diagnostics for transitive and intransitive verbs (and hence for the labels ‘S’,
‘O’ and ‘A’ used in some of the chapters in this volume). There are, however,
a number of voice-related derivational processes in the language whose side-
effect is an increase or reduction in valency. These are treated in the follow-
ing sections.
2 Middle -k-
Creek has a suffix -k- appearing on many one-place verbs and often deriving
one-place verbs from two-place verbs, as in (12):
(12) (a) hopóywa-t ifá-n i·h-ís
child-nom dog-oblq hide:lgr-indic
The child is hiding the dog
(b) ifá-t i·hk-ís
dog-nom hide:mid:lgr-indic
The dog is hiding
Hardy (1988, 1994) labels Creek -k- in examples like (12b) the ‘middle’ voice.
Following work by Kemmer (1993), he suggests that -k- records ‘affected
subjects of events of very low elaboration’. I will adopt the term ‘middle’
here, though I will claim that affectedness and valency reduction in middle
voice forms are consequences of a more fundamental shift in event view from
cause to effect.
(a) Historically, Creek -k- derives from an auxiliary (Haas 1977). In its
origin and structure, then, it shares more with the English get-passive (as
in He got fired) than with the reflexive middles found in French, Spanish,
Italian, Icelandic and Russian.
382 Jack B. Martin
(b) A large number of middle verbs in Creek are deponents: the presence
of -k- can only be determined in these forms through internal reconstruction
(by applying morphological diagnostics).4
(c) Adding -k- to a stem usually has the effect of reducing the number of
arguments in the clause, so that an n-place predicate becomes an n-1-place
predicate. Usually, the middle derives a one-place predicate from a two-place
predicate, as in (12), though it may also occasionally derive a two-place pre-
dicate from a three-place predicate:
(13) acca·k-itá ‘to lean against’ cf. acca·y-itá ‘to lean (one) against’
In one instance, a zero-place predicate occurs in the middle, however:
(14) hayatk-itá ‘to dawn’ cf. hayatí·c-a ‘morning star’,
lit. ‘one that makes it dawn’
The middle is also occasionally added to one-place predicates without reduc-
ing valency:
(15) hopoAAink-itá ‘to gain wisdom’ cf. hopoAAin-í· ‘sensible, wise’
tikínk-i· ‘on tip-toe’ cf. tikinn-itá ‘to tip-toe’
While valency-reduction is thus a common side-effect of the Creek middle, it
is not a necessary consequence of it.
(d) The use of a reflexive or reciprocal does not lead to use of the middle
in Creek:
(16) i·-hic-áhk-is
refl-see-pl:hgr-indic
They saw themselves ( just now)
(17) iti-hic-áhk-is
recip-see-pl:hgr-indic
They saw each other ( just now)
A decrease in elaboration (the number of referentially distinct arguments)
therefore does not trigger use of -k- in Creek.
(e) As the case marking in (12a–b) shows, the argument interpreted as
changed or affected is case-marked as a non-subject in the active voice form,
but as a subject in the corresponding middle voice form. Similarly, selectional
restrictions associated with the theme or patient shift from the non-subject to
4
The tests used in this chapter are absence of -k- in direct causative or plural forms of verbs or
alternation of -k- with -y-. When internal reconstruction has been used to establish the presence
of the middle, ‘cf.’ is placed before the related form.
Creek 383
the subject. Many motion verbs and positional verbs, for example, supplete
in Creek for the number of the theme or patient. This means that in active
forms, they supplete for a non-subject, while in middle forms they supplete
for the subject:
(18) pasatk-itá ‘to die (of two or more)’ cf. pasat-itá ‘to kill (two or more)’
(f) There is no implicit argument in the middle, as there is in the English
passive or in Creek impersonals. Example (12b) is thus better translated as
‘the dog is hiding’ than as ‘the dog is being hid’.
(g) As (12b) shows, the subject of the middle may be agentive or
nonagentive. The function of Creek -k- is thus not to avoid ascribing agency;
instead, the event is ‘self-contained’ and any patient or theme argument,
whether or not it is also agentive, becomes the ‘centre of interest’.
(h) Creek middles may in principle occur in one of several aspects. These
include the imperfective (or ‘level-pitch grade’, used for progressives), the
durative perfective (used for states) and the durative imperfective (used for
habits or generic statements), among others:
(19) (a) ahópank-ís (imperfective)
break:mid:lgr-indic
It is breaking
(b) ahopánk-i·-s (durative perfective)
break:mid-dur-indic
It is broken
(c) ahópank-í·-s (durative imperfective)
break:mid:lgr-dur-indic
It breaks (routinely)
Many nonagentive middle verbs show a marked preference for the durative
perfective aspect, however. In this aspect, middles indicate a state resulting
from the activity described by the verb. This use is commonly observed with
verbs describing procedures:
(20) use of the middle with procedural verbs:
ahóAk-i· ‘sewn’ ahoA-itá ‘to sew’
akhótk-i· ‘closed, shut’ akhott-itá ‘to close, shut’
háwk-i· ‘open’ cf. hawic-itá ‘to open’
hóck-i· ‘pounded’ hoc-íta ‘to pound’
hotánk-i· ‘braided’ hotan-itá ‘to braid, plait’
káck-i· ‘snapped, broken’ kac-íta ‘to snap (one)’
láfk-i· ‘cut open, gashed’ laff-itá ‘to cut open’
límk-i· ‘plucked’ li·m-itá ‘to pluck’
384 Jack B. Martin
Aató·sk-i· ‘unfolded (of a quilt, etc.)’ cf. Aato·sic-íta ‘to unfold’
Aicápk-i· ‘loose, untied’ Aicap-itá ‘to untie, release’
mótk-i· ‘cropped, bobbed’ mot-íta ‘to crop, bob’
pikíck-i· ‘pleated’ pikic-itá ‘to pleat’
táck-i· ‘cut’ tac-íta ‘to cut’
táAk-i· ‘woven, knitted’ taA-íta ‘to weave’
wocótk-i· ‘chopped (as of wood)’ wocot-itá ‘to chop’
wokóck-i· ‘smashed, shattered’ wokoc-itá ‘to crush, smash,
shatter’
The use of the middle is thus tied in part to aspect, with verbs in this class
favouring a context in which states result from a procedure of some kind.
(i) There is no simple way in Creek to predict whether a verb will be active
or middle based on the meaning of the verb. Thus, predicates differing only
in number may differ in whether they are middles or not:
(21) il-íta ‘to die (of one)’ pasatk-itá ‘to die (of two or more)’
Antonyms may also differ:
(22) hitót-i· ‘frozen’ sití·fk-i· ‘thawed’
( j) There are a few semantic generalizations emerging from the data, how-
ever. First, verbs describing simple movement without implying a specific
manner or special effort tend not to be middles:
(23) lack of the middle with basic motion verbs:
aA-íta ‘to go about (of one)’ hoyan-itá ‘to go by (of one)’
at-íta ‘to come (of one)’ (i)ci·y-itá ‘to go in (of one)’
ay-íta ‘to go (of one)’ oss-itá ‘to go out (of one)’
Verbs describing manner of motion or more energetic motion do tend to be
middles:5
(24) use of the middle with manner-of-motion verbs:
acimk-itá ‘to climb (of one)’ cf. acimic-íta ‘to climb (of three
or more)’
halk-itá ‘to crawl (of one)’ halic-itá ‘to crawl (of three
or more)’
kawapk-itá ‘to rise, go up kawap-itá ‘to lift, raise’
(of one)’
litk-itá ‘to run (of one)’ cf. liticeyc-itá ‘to run off, make
(one) run’
sofo·tk-itá ‘to drag oneself’ cf. sofo·tic-íta ‘to drag’
5
One exception is yakap-itá ‘to walk’.
Creek 385
solo·tk-itá ‘to slide, slip cf. solo·ticeyc-itá ‘to make (one)
(of one)’ slide’
tamk-itá ‘to fly (of one)’ cf. tamiceyc-itá ‘to flush (one bird)’
ta·sk-itá ‘to jump (of one)’ cf. ta·sic-íta ‘to jump (of three
or more)’
Verbs describing movement into a specific posture or the adoption of a posi-
tion also tend to be middles:6
(25) use of the middle with posture verbs or positionals:
a·-coko·k-itá ‘to get on piggyback’ a·-coko·y-itá ‘to carry piggyback’
apeyk-itá ‘to get or be inside cf. apeyc-itá ‘to have added on’
(of one)’
apo·k-itá ‘to sit (of three or apo·y-itá ‘to set (three or
more)’ more)’
ka·k-itá ‘to sit (of two)’ ka·y-itá ‘to set (two)’
leyk-itá ‘to sit (of one)’ cf. leyc-itá ‘to set (one)’
siho·k-itá ‘to stand (of two)’ siho·y-itá ‘to stand (two)’
wakk-itá ‘to lie (of one)’ cf. wakic-itá ‘to lay (one) down’
There are several differences between the middles in (24) and (25) and
those in (20): the middles derived from procedural verbs (20) usually have
nonagentive subjects, generally refer to states resulting from activities, are
derived morphologically through affixation of -k- to the active voice form,
and are formed fairly freely. In contrast, the manner-of-motion verbs and
positional verbs usually have agentive subjects, usually refer to events, are
generally not derived by simple affixation and are not formed productively.
(k) Middle -k- is fairly common: a recent dictionary (Martin and Mauldin
ms.) contains approximately 144 verbs that can be shown to include -k-.
There are restrictions on the shape of the root to which it attaches, however.
Thus, active verbs cannot form middles if adding -k- would produce an illicit
consonant cluster. A verb like afast-itá ‘to take care of’ thus has no corre-
sponding middle *afastk- ‘taken care of’, and posture verbs that end in con-
sonant clusters (e.g. hoyA-itá ‘to stand (of one)’) cannot occur in the middle
even though other verbs in this semantic class are middle verbs.7
Based on (a–k) above, it seems unlikely that a description of Creek -k- in
terms of valency reduction, affectedness or elaboration will be successful.
Describing -k- as valency-reducing fails to explain why -k- does not create
6
Verbs in this class may refer to the act of assuming a position or to the state resulting from that
act depending on the aspect the verb is placed in.
7
In some instances, the weight of a root may be adjusted, however, to permit the formation of
a middle.
386 Jack B. Martin
S = A intransitives (e.g. John cooks). Describing -k- in terms of subject-
affectedness would fail to explain its use with manner-of-motion verbs (rather
than ‘basic’ motion verbs) and zero-place verbs like ‘to dawn’. Describing it
in terms of low elaboration fails to explain why it is not required with reflexives
and reciprocals.
It seems more promising to describe Creek -k- as framing the clause from
the endpoint.8
A shift in point of view would then effect changes in valency,
transitivity, aspect and affectedness, though none of these is obligatory when
-k- is present. These tendencies are shown in (26).
(26) effects of the creek middle
base form derived form
Ext. Orientation cause (actor) → effect (undergoer)
Int. Orientation (no change)
Cause Avoidance explicit external cause → self-contained event
(no external cause)
Aspect activity → resulting state or
inchoative
Subj. Affectedness usually not affected → often affected
Valency n-place predicate → n-1-place predicate
Transitivity transitive → intransitive
ditransitive → transitive
In this table and in tables to follow, I distinguish between external orienta-
tion (roughly, the orientation of the subject or starting point at the clause-
level) and internal orientation (the orientation of the object or endpoint
at the predicate-level). In this sense, external orientation is close to what
Klaiman (1988) refers to as ‘diathesis’ or to the traditional restriction of voice
to the point of view of the subject in a clause. In the base or active form, the
external orientation is towards a cause (actor), while in the derived form, the
external orientation is towards the effect (undergoer). In the base form, there
is typically an explicit external cause, while the derived form avoids mention
of this entity. The base form is typically an activity, while the derived middle
is usually a resulting state or inchoative. The subject of the derived middle is
usually affected, and both valency and transitivity are reduced.
What the table in (26) and subsequent tables attempt to describe is the fact
that a single morphological process can have several historically or function-
ally related grammatical effects. It is far from obvious that change in valency
8
The characterization of the Creek middle as signalling the endpoint differs from Croft’s (1994)
characterization of middles cross-linguistically as inchoatives. While Creek middles can have
inchoative readings, they more commonly refer to resulting states.
Creek 387
has any special status. If the approach to the Creek middle outlined here can
be generalized to other derivational processes, then ‘valency’ and ‘valency
reduction’ – to the extent that these terms are even significant linguistically –
may be consequences of larger decisions speakers make about the organiza-
tion of event view.
3 Impersonal plural -ho-
Creek has an affix -ho- used when the specific identity of a subject is felt
to be unimportant. The affix also has plural uses in clauses allowing overt
subjects, but in the impersonal use leads to subjectless clauses in which a
patient receives greater attention. The Creek impersonal plural can therefore
be seen as a voice marker (because it increases the prominence of a patient)
as well as a valency-reducing marker (because overt noun phrase subjects are
disallowed).
(a) One common use of -ho- is to make statements that refer to people in
general:
(27) hS·n
c-itá tó·ko-·-t ô·n
w-i·-s
see:ngr-inf be:not-dur-ss be:fgr-dur-indic
má·ho·k-at-í·-t ôn-ka
say:impers.pl:lgr-past-dur-ss be:fgr-so
‘You’re not supposed to stare at it’, they/people used to say, so . . . (1992a)
(28) heyyô·n
wa·t-ta·t i·kaná kíAA-is-ikó-· fá·ka
now-top land know-exist-not-dur hunting
apiy-ípho·y-â·t
go:triplural-cmpl:impers.pl:lgr-top
But now, they/people go hunting on unfamiliar lands . . . (1992b)
This use is nonanaphoric in the sense that it does not refer back to any
character in the narrative.
(b) Impersonal plural -ho- may also refer back to characters who have
already been established in a narrative, however, if the speaker is not con-
cerned with the identity of the individuals (1992c):
(29) hompeyc-ak-í·-s máhk-it ifá-ta·t hompeyhóhc-in
feed-pl-dur-indic say:hgr-ss dog-top feed:impers.pl:hgr-ds
Saying ‘Let’s feed him’, they (two minor characters in the story) fed the
dog . . .
The use of -ho- is not just for generic subjects, then, but for subjects that the
speaker chooses to background.
388 Jack B. Martin
(c) Impersonal plural -ho- is always grammatically plural. If a verb has
distinct forms for singular, dual and triplural (three or more), the triplural
form is used, though the sense may be singular (30) or triplural (31) (1939):
(30) cofí-n akál-aAa·n-ít s-ohh-apí·ho·y-â·n
rabbit-oblq pour-fut:lgr-ss inst-on-go:triplural:impers.pl:lgr-top
when he/they (a minor character) went up to pour it on Rabbit . . .
(31) pa·n-ít fólho·y-at-í·-s
dance:lgr-ss go.about:triplural:lgr-past-dur-indic
. . . they/people were dancing about
(d) Because impersonal plural -ho- functions to deemphasize a subject, it is
the preferred way to translate the English passive (Matthew 9: 25):
(32) mô·meysísti sosséyho·c-ô·f . . .
but people cast.out:triplural:impers.pl:lgr-when
But when the people were put forth . . .
(e) The Creek impersonal plural differs from a passive, however, in that
objects continue to be coded as objects, with oblique -n (1939):
(33) oymó·Aki-n yahá-n akálho·y-ín
boiling.water-oblq wolf-oblq pour.on:impers.pl:lgr-ds
. . . they pour boiling water on Wolf . . .
(f) An impersonal clause cannot normally occur with an overt subject:
(34) (a) sókca-n óywa-n acánho·y-ís
bag-oblq water-oblq pour.in:impers.pl:lgr-indic
They/people are pouring water into bags
(b) *ísti sókca-n óywa-n acánho·y-ís
person bag-oblq water-oblq pour.in:impers.pl:lgr-indic
People are pouring water into bags
With an overt subject, a true plural form must be used:
(35) ísti sókca-n óywa-n acán-a·k-ís
person bag-oblq water-oblq pour.in-pl:lgr-indic
People are pouring water into bags
(g) Not all verbs are compatible with impersonal -ho-. The semantic class
of verbs that occurs with the impersonal has not been researched extensively,
though agentive predicates appear to be favoured.
While it seems clear that the creation of subjectless clauses in Creek is a
change in valency, it is also clear that a description of the impersonal plural
Creek 389
as ‘valency-reducing’ would capture only a small part of its grammar. The
Creek impersonal plural functions to background the role of the subject in a
clause, so that the role of a cause (actor) is acknowledged by the speaker
without being activated in the hearer’s mind. The point of view can there-
fore be described as being away from the cause, though any patient or theme
will consequently receive greater attention. These side-effects are charted
in (36):
(36) effects of the creek impersonal plural
base form derived form
Ext. Orientation cause → away from cause
Int. Orientation patient → greater topicality
Cause Avoidance explicit external cause → implicit external cause
Aspect (no change)
Subj. Affectedness (no change)
Valency n-place predicate → n-1-place predicate
Transitivity (no change)
4 Dative applicative im-
Creek has a prefix im- (or in- before nonlabial consonants) whose function
appears to be that of adding an ‘indirect object’ to the verb it attaches to
(generally a benefactive or malefactive, but also, depending on the verb, a
goal, source or possessor). Observing similarities to a construction in Bantu,
Baker (1988: 472–3) proposed referring to the Chickasaw and Choctaw
cognate as an ‘applicative’, a term that has since been adopted by some
Muskogeanists.
For Baker, applicatives are incorporated adpositions. Like prepositions
or postpositions, then, applicatives add noun phrases to clauses. An alternative
conception of applicatives is found in Croft (1994: 95–6), where it is observed
that:
. . . derived applicatives have the effect of assigning to direct object role
some participant other than the ‘patient’ (endpoint of the verbal segment)
of the basic verb form . . . The benefactive/malefactive represents the one
situation in which a resulting state can cause something else to happen: a
person’s mental state can be altered by an otherwise static state of affairs.
The mental state itself, being another state, is easily construed as the new
endpoint of the event.
For Croft, subjects and objects represent the starting point and endpoint of the
segment of a causal network represented by each verb (1994: 92). Within this
framework, dative applicatives are a shift in conceptualization from the
390 Jack B. Martin
patient as endpoint to the dative as endpoint. The ‘valency-increasing’ function
of applicatives would then be a side-effect of a conceptual shift to datives as
endpoints.
(a) The dative applicative agrees with the object it adds to a verb’s argument
structure:
(37) án-yaheyk-ís ‘s/he is singing for me’
cín-yaheyk-ís ‘s/he is singing for you’
ín-yaheyk-ís ‘s/he is singing for him/her (another)’
pón-yaheyk-ís ‘s/he is singing for us’
(b) The dative applicative in Creek often adds an argument to a clause.
With active verbs, the added argument is often interpreted as a benefactive:
(38) (a) cá·ni-t istaha·kocí-n ha·y-ís
John-nom doll-oblq make:lgr-indic
John is making a doll
(b) cá·ni-t cími-n istaha·kocí-n ín-ha·y-ís
John-nom Jim-oblq doll-oblq dat-make:lgr-indic
John is making a doll for Jim
(c) The dative applicative may also add an argument that is adversely
affected by the activity:
(39) acani·y-itá ‘to peek’ im-acani·y-itá ‘to peek at (someone)’
akiAA-itá ‘to cheat’ im-akiAA-itá ‘to cheat on, deceive’
In many cases it is difficult to decide whether the added argument benefits from,
or is harmed by, the activity, however:
(40) ti·f-itá ‘to take off (two or in-ti·f-itá ‘to take (two or more shoes or
more shoes or socks)’ socks) off of (someone else)’
The dative applicative thus serves to add a new endpoint: whether the endpoint
benefits or is harmed by the activity is left to pragmatics.
(d) The benefactive and malefactive uses lead to a ‘possessive’ reading,
most often seen when the patient is a bodypart (Martin ms.):
(41) mo·mín ca-háApi-ów an-litáf-aA-i·-t-o·k
and 1sgII-skin-too 1sg.dat-tear.up-fut-dur-ss-say:lgr
and it will tear my skin, too (1936)
In examples like these, the dative applicative is commonly offered because
the whole (possessor) is naturally affected by action on the part.
Creek 391
(e) The possessive reading may have led to a partitive reading seen in
examples like the following:
(42) acan-itá ‘to fill’ im-acan-íta ‘to fill (a part of something, such as a gas
tank)’
(f) The benefactive reading leads to a goal reading in some verbs:
(43) yaheyk-itá ‘to sing’ in-yaheyk-itá ‘to sing for, to’
oponay-íta ‘to talk’ im-oponay-itá ‘to talk for, to’
laks-itá ‘to tell a lie’ in-laks-itá ‘to tell a lie to’
onay-itá ‘to tell (a story)’ im-onay-íta ‘to tell to’
atot-itá ‘to send’ im-atot-íta ‘to send to’
The goal use of the dative applicative is usually limited to transmission of an
object to the added argument rather than movement of a subject to a destina-
tion. The dative applicative is thus not used to translate sentences like John is
walking to school in which the agent undergoes movement.
(g) Instead, the dative applicative adds a source to verbs of motion:
(44) litk-itá ‘to run (of one)’ in-litk-itá ‘to run from (someone, of one)’
It seems contradictory to construe a source as an ‘endpoint’ in Croft’s frame-
work, but becomes more plausible if one considers that the source may bene-
fit or be adversely affected by removal. This effect is more easily seen in
examples like the following:
(45) kapak-itá ‘to separate’ in-kapak-itá ‘to leave (a person or place)’
akoyk-itá ‘to move’ im-akoyk-itá ‘to move out of the way of’
There are many other uses of the dative applicative (signalling the reference
point of a comparison, an argument collaborating in the performing of an
action, etc.). In general, though, we have seen that the dative applicative
adds a noun phrase in most uses and therefore can be described as valency-
increasing. Yet such a description does little to explain the use of Creek
im-. If im- were simply valency-increasing, it might add agents to stative
verbs (like a causative), instruments or patients. The specific uses of im- are
better explained if im- is described in Croft’s terms as shifting the point of
view to the secondary effect of an activity. Such an account explains the use
of im- in benefactives and malefactives, possessive readings with inalienable
objects, goal readings with verbs involving transmission, and even source
readings when movement deprives or benefits a location.
392 Jack B. Martin
(46) effects of the creek dative applicative
base form derived form
Ext. Orientation (no change)
Int. Orientation patient → secondary effect
Cause Avoidance (no change)
Aspect (no change)
Subj. Affectedness (no change)
Valency n-place predicate → n+1-place predicate
Transitivity intransitive → transitive
transitive → ditransitive
5 Instrumental applicative is-
In addition to the dative applicative, Creek has an instrumental applicative is-
(relating historically to is-íta ‘to take, hold’) that often adds an argument to a
clause. I will argue that is- is better treated as shifting the internal orientation
towards the manner in which the event takes place, and is thus better treated
in terms of ‘point of view’ than in terms of valency.
(a) One use of the prefix is- in Creek is to add an instrumental object to a
clause:
(47) (a) Bill có·ka-n hó·cceyc-ís
Bill letter-oblq write:lgr-indic
Bill is writing a letter
(b) Bill isho·ccéycka có·ka-n is-hó·cceyc-ís
Bill pen letter-oblq inst-write:lgr-indic
Bill is writing a letter with a pen
In this use it is valency-increasing: an n-place predicate becomes an n+1-
place predicate.
(b) The prefix is- is not limited to instrumental readings, however. The
instrumental is often added to a verb if the patient or theme of the verb is
‘complex’ (consisting of salient parts):
(48) (a) siskitá-n î·s-ey-s
cup-oblq hold:sg:fgr-1sgI-indic
I’m holding a cup (one that’s empty)
(b) siskitá-n (i)s-î·s-ey-s
cup-oblq inst-hold:sg:fgr-1sgI-indic
I’m holding a cup (one that contains something)
The implication here is that the object is being held with something
else (possibly inside it). Some objects are conventionally treated as being
Creek 393
complex. Books, for example, often trigger the instrumental because they
contain pages:
(49) có·ka-n (i)s-î·s-ey-s
book-oblq inst-hold:sg:fgr-1sgI-indic
I’m holding a book
Similarly, frames, pictures, dentures, eyeglasses, a harness (on a horse) and
watches often trigger use of the instrumental because they have salient parts.
This use of the instrumental applicative is not valency-increasing, however.
(c) The use of the Creek instrumental applicative is sensitive to the degree
to which a speaker wishes to draw attention to an object that is secondarily
involved in the event. While it is customary to use the instrumental for
pictures, books, etc., other objects may or may not trigger the instrumental. A
speaker may use the instrumental in speaking of an apron, for example, if the
apron has a large pocket or a salient splotch of batter on it, or might use the
instrumental in a sentence like ‘Look at him sitting there!’ if a man is sitting
with his pants unzipped (Margaret Mauldin, p.c.).
(d) The instrumental applicative is often used with verbs of motion when
the object undergoing motion is accompanied by another argument:
(50) litk-itá ‘to run (of one)’ is-litk-itá ‘to run off with (something, such
as a book, or bearing something,
as of a horse, of one)’
The object undergoing motion must be in control of the activity, however.
There are a number of other uses of the instrumental applicative that could
be described with more space. The data examined here are sufficient to show
that a description of the prefix in terms of valency alone fails to explain uses
where it is not valency-increasing. In their close proximity to verbs, applicatives
thus appear to enter the event structure of predicates, and thus differ semant-
ically from adpositions. The effects of the instrumental applicative are sum-
marized in the following chart:
(51) effects of the creek instrumental applicative
base form derived form
Ext. Orientation (no change)
Int. Orientation patient → manner
Cause Avoidance (no change)
Aspect (no change)
Subj. Affectedness (no change)
Valency n-place predicate → n(+1)-place predicate
Transitivity intransitive → (in)transitive
transitive → (di)transitive
394 Jack B. Martin
6 Direct causative -ic-
A direct causative is often described as adding an agent to a verb’s argument
structure, converting an n-place predicate to an n+1-place predicate. Creek
has a suffix -ic- (-·c-, -yc-, -iceyc-, -yci·c-) that appears to have this same
function.
Like the other processes discussed in this chapter, the direct causative
can be viewed in terms of voice rather than in terms of valency, however.
Croft (1994: 94), for example, characterizes direct causative derivation as
shifting the conceptualization of the starting point in a clause to a prior
cause in a chain of causation. Direct causatives are commonly found with
states because states ‘can be easily construed as a final endpoint of a causal
chain’.
(a) The direct causative is common in Creek, though most of the examples
of the suffix are almost certainly learned rather than created spontaneously.
For this reason, I do not separate the direct causative with a hyphen. The
direct causative is most commonly applied to nonagentive states or inchoatives:
(52) asl-itá ‘to go out (of a fire)’ asli·c-itá ‘to put out (a fire, a
light), erase’
cákh-i· ‘sticking in (of one)’ cakhi·c-itá ‘to stick (one) in’
call-itá ‘to roll (as of a tyre)’ calli·c-itá ‘to roll (a tyre, etc.)’
cá·t-i· ‘red’ ca·ti·c-itá ‘to redden (something)’
fikhonn-itá ‘to stop’ fikhonneyc-itá ‘to stop (something)’
hic-íta ‘to see’ hiceyc-itá ‘to show’
hoyA-itá ‘to stand (of one)’ hoyAeyc-itá ‘to stand (one)’
il-íta ‘to die (of one)’ ili·c-itá ‘to kill (of one)’
káAp-i· ‘dry’ kaApi·c-itá ‘to dry (something)’
kancap-í· ‘low’ kancapoyc-itá ‘to lower’
kiAA-itá ‘to know’ kiAAeyc-itá ‘to inform’
lomh-itá ‘to lie lomheyc-itá ‘to lay (three or
(of three or more)’ more)’
Aákk-i· ‘big’ Aakkoyc-itá ‘to enlarge’
noA-íta ‘to be cooked’ noAeyc-itá ‘to cook (something)’
A vowel appearing before a direct causative is generally derived from a verb-
final vowel historically. The appearance of this vowel is extremely limited in
Creek outside the direct causative and its quality is partially predictable.9
9
The stem-vowel is generally /a/ (raising to /e/ before tautosyllabic /y/) when the preceding
vowel is /i/ or /o/; the stem-vowel is generally /i/ when the preceding vowel is /a/. An /i/ stem-
vowel sometimes rounds to /o/ after /k/ and /p/ for some speakers. Thus, kancapV-ic-itá ‘to
lower’ surfaces as kancapoyc-itá.
Creek 395
(b) As the translations in (52) suggest, the Creek direct causative is com-
monly used when there is a single event effected by an intentional causer
acting directly to manipulate a causee who is portrayed as having virtually no
control over the event, as being completely affected, and possibly as being an
unwilling partner in the event. Direct causatives are commonly formed from
one-place states, though two-place verbs and activities are also possible base
forms:
(53) homp-itá ‘to eat’ hompeyc-itá ‘to feed’
isk-itá ‘to drink’ iskoyc-itá ‘to give drink’
linta·pp-itá ‘to stumble’ linta·ppoyc-itá ‘to trip’
Because the causee is at the complete mercy of the new agent in the direct
causative, the direct causative could alternatively be called a transitivizer. Just
as the semantics of one-place middle verbs is indistinguishable from one-place
intransitive verbs, the semantics of two-place direct causatives is indistinguish-
able from two-place transitives.
(c) Deponent middles delete -k- before the direct causative. In this case,
there is no stem vowel:
(54) fáck-i· ‘full’ facic-itá ‘to fill’
fásk-i· ‘sharp’ fasic-itá ‘to sharpen’
fink-itá ‘to blaze’ finic-itá ‘to light (a fire), turn on
(a lamp)’
hasátk-i· ‘clean’ hasatic-íta ‘to clean’
hátk-i· ‘white’ hatic-itá ‘to whiten’
háwk-i· ‘open’ hawic-itá ‘to open’
leyk-itá ‘to sit (of one)’ leyc-itá ‘to set (one)’
tánk-i· ‘empty’ tanic-itá ‘to void’
wakk-itá ‘to lie (of one)’ wakic-itá ‘to lay (one)’
Deletion of the middle in deponent verbs presumably arose because these events
were no longer self-contained, and thus no longer middle in point of view.10
(d) The causee is case-marked like other objects, with oblique -n:
(55) honánwa-t istocí-n hómpeyc-ís
male-nom baby-oblq eat:direct.caus-indic
The man is feeding the baby
(e) The direct causative suffix -ic- also has a pluralizing function. With
verbs having a theme or patient as subject, -ic- indicates a triplural theme or
patient (three or more):
10
The reflexive middle in Italian is also deleted under causativization (Martin 1991a).
396 Jack B. Martin
(56) somk-itá ‘to disappear (of one)’ somic-itá ‘to disappear (of three or more)’
tamk-itá ‘to fly (of one)’ tamic-itá ‘to fly (of three or more)’
With verbs having a theme or patient as object, -ic- is combined with reduplica-
tion to yield a plural theme or patient (two or more):
(57) halat-itá ‘to hold (one)’ halatheyc-itá ‘to hold (two or more)’
ton-íta ‘to trim (one)’ tontoyc-itá ‘to trim (two or more)’
The plural use of -ic- is clearly related to the direct causative use. Note that
deponent middles lose -k- in the plural forms in (56), just as in direct causatives.
The plural use of -ic- appears to take priority over the direct causative use,
however. When a given verb has a triplural reading attached to -ic-, a direct
causative must be formed another way. In this case, Creek has a special long
form -iceyc- (-yci·c-) to indicate a direct causative:
(58) somk-itá ‘to disappear (of one)’ somiceyc-itá ‘to lose (one)’
tamk-itá ‘to fly (of one)’ tamiceyc-itá ‘to make (one) fly, flush’
The nature of the connection between number and causation is difficult to
explain, though not without precedent (see, for example, Breen 1981 (339)
for a similar case of polysemy in Margany).
(f) In two or three instances, the direct causative appears to add an object.
Thus, apil-itá ‘to laugh’ has a related form apileyc-itá that means ‘to laugh
at’ rather than ‘to make laugh’. In these exceptional examples, the primary
object has been reinterpreted as a secondary object (see also Dixon’s descrip-
tion of Yidiny, in §1 of chapter 2).
The effects associated with causativization are charted in (59):
(59) effects of the creek direct causative
base form derived form
Ext. Orientation usually patient or theme → cause
Int. Orientation (usually not present) → causee
Cause Avoidance (no change)
Aspect usually state or inchoative → activity
Subj. Affectedness sometimes affected → usually affected
Valency n-place predicate → n+1-place predicate
Transitivity intransitive → transitive
transitive → ditransitive
In most instances, the direct causative in Creek serves to assign responsibility
for a state or inchoative to an external cause, thereby portraying the causee as
a patient. This leads to aspectual shifts as well as shifts in valency and
Creek 397
transitivity. These side-effects can be understood in terms of a shift in point
of view to a prior starting point, however, while describing the process as
valency-increasing fails to distinguish the direct causative from an applicative
and fails to link causation to aspect.
7 Indirect causative -ipeyc-
In addition to the direct causative discussed in §6, Creek has an indirect
causative formed by adding -ipeyc- (or -ipoyc- for some speakers) to the verb
root. Grayson (1885) records the following examples:11
(60) cími-t cá·ni-n náfk-ipoyc-ís
Jim-nom John-oblq hit-make:lgr-indic
James is causing John to strike
(61) paksankí·-n cató-n aweyk-ipôyc-ay-ank-s
yesterday-oblq stone-oblq throw-make:fgr-1sgI-past-indic
I caused him to throw a stone yesterday
(62) páksi-n ’kapotóka-n ohhompitá-n
tomorrow-oblq hat-oblq table-oblq
oh-leyc-ipóyc-á·A-i·-s
on-set:sg-make-1sgI:fut-dur-indic
I will cause him to put his hat on the table tomorrow
As these translations suggest, the indirect causative adds a higher causative
predicate and agent to the clause structure. The added causer is marked in
the nominative, and the causee and all other non-subjects are marked in the
oblique.
(a) The indirect causative is semantically distinct from the direct causative,
as the following translations suggest:
(63) honánwa-t istocí-n hómpeyc-ís
male-nom baby-oblq eat:direct.caus:lgr-indic
The man is feeding the baby (as by spooning food into the baby’s mouth)
(64) honánwa-t istocí-n hómp-ipeyc-ís
male-nom baby-oblq eat-make:lgr-indic
The man is making the baby eat (perhaps by commanding the baby)
In the direct causative, the causee has no control over the event. In the
indirect causative, the causee retains control over the activity while losing
ultimate responsibility for the action. In the direct causative (63), the act of
11
George Washington Grayson was Principal Chief of the Creek Nation from 1917 to 1920.
I have phonemicized his orthography.
398 Jack B. Martin
causation and the state effected are virtually inseparable. In the indirect causat-
ive (64), the two activities are separable to a degree. These differences can be
shown by examining the use of the instrumental (Martin 1991a: 216):
(65) (a) *istocí ínki-n is-hómpe-yc-éy-s
baby 3:hand-oblq inst-eat-direct.caus:lgr-1sgI-indic
lit. I’m feeding the baby with his hand
(b) istocí ínki-n is-hómp-ipeyc-éy-s
baby 3:hand-oblq inst-eat-make:lgr-1sgI-indic
I’m making the baby eat with his hand
As (65a) shows, an instrumental cannot be construed with the secondary
predicate of a direct causative because there is not enough separation between
the events and the causee lacks control. In the indirect causative in (65b),
however, the causee can be construed as using an instrument to effect a
secondary event.
(b) Anaphora points to a further difference between the direct and indirect
causatives. The direct causative (66a) is just like a transitive verb (66b) in
disallowing a pronominal prefix to be coreferent with a subject in the same
clause:
(66) (a) *ca-híceyc-éy-s
1sgII-see:direct.caus:lgr-1sgI-indic
lit. I’m showing me
(b) *ca-na·fk-éy-s
1sgII-hit:lgr-1sgI-indic
lit. I’m hitting me
An indirect causative allows a pronominal prefix to be coreferent with the
matrix subject, and in this respect acts as though there are two clauses in the
structure:
(67) cími-n ca-náfk-ipeyc-éy-s
Jim-oblq 1sgII-hit-make:lgr-1sgI-indic
I’m making Jim hit me
This grammatical contrast supports the claim that the contrast between direct
and indirect causatives involves the separation of events.
(c) The causee in the indirect causative need not have any control over the
secondary event – in fact, zero-place predicates may be causativized in this way:
(68) ósk-ipeyc-ís
rain-make:lgr-indic
S/he is making it rain (as perhaps through the use of sorcery)
Creek 399
The form in (68) confirms that it is conceptualizing the event as two causally
related activities that triggers the indirect causative rather than agency or
valency.
There are many other details involved in the indirect causative, but the
basic properties can be charted as in (69):
(69) effects of the creek indirect causative
base form derived form
Ext. Orientation usually cause → prior cause
Int. Orientation patient → causee
Cause Avoidance (no change)
Aspect activity → activity
Subj. Affectedness usually not affected → usually affected by prior
cause
Valency n-place predicate → n+1-place predicate
Transitivity intransitive → transitive
transitive → ditransitive
The indirect causative can thus be seen as a shift in point of view from one
starting point to a prior starting point through the addition of the causative
activity.
8 Interaction of voice-related processes
A rough description of the interaction of the processes discussed in this
chapter can be captured in the form of a formula:
(70) [instr-dat-[verb-middle-direct.caus]-indir.caus.]-impers
As (70) suggests, the impersonal plural may apply to actives and middles (71)
as well as direct and indirect causatives (72):
(71) (a) í·hho·y-ís (Active)
hide:impers.pl:lgr-indic
They/people are hiding it
(b) í·hho·k-ís (Middle)
hide:mid:impers.pl:lgr-indic
They/people are hiding
(72) (a) hompéyho·c-ís (Direct Causative)
eat:direct.caus:impers.pl:lgr-indic
They/people are feeding it
(b) homp-ipéyho·c-ís (Indirect Causative)
eat-make:impers.pl:lgr-indic
They/people are making him eat
400 Jack B. Martin
A clause with an impersonal plural subject may not be causativized, however:
(73) *nafhok-ípeyc-ís
hit:impers.pl-make:lgr-indic
S/he makes them/people hit
The formula in (70) also captures the fact that middles are never formed from
causatives:
(74) *hompéyc-k-i·
eat:direct.caus-mid-dur
fed
A middle voice form is also sometimes judged to be odd as the complement
of an indirect causative:
(75) *í·hk-ipeyc-ís
hide:mid-make:lgr-indic
S/he is making him/her hide
The dative, instrumental, impersonal and causative are all compatible with
each other, occurring in the order predicted by (70):
(76) (i)s-in-tac-ipéyho·c-ís
inst-dat-cut-make:impers.pl:lgr-indic
They/people are making him/her cut it for him/her with it
When other applicative processes are taken into consideration, we find that
derivation in Creek can add as many as four arguments to a clause, in prin-
ciple allowing seven-place verbs to be derived from basic three-place verbs.
It is important to examine the interaction of these voice-related processes
to see whether there is any grammatical evidence in Creek that they form a
single system. We have already seen that there is close interaction between
the middle and the direct causative, because the middle usually deletes in the
presence of the direct causative as shown in (54). It is further possible to
distinguish the preverbal and postverbal affixes, however: the former shift
point of view within the verb phrase to a new object; the latter revolve around
the status of the subject. Instead of claiming there is a single, overarching
category of voice or valency in Creek then, it seems that there are two gram-
matical systems dealing with the information status of objects and subjects.
9 Conclusion
Two systems of orientation operate in Creek at the external (clause) level and
at the internal (predicate) level. At the external level, predicates are either
Creek 401
oriented towards the cause or towards an effect or state. Postverbal elements
(suffixes or infixes) are used to create changes in this basic orientation. The
Creek middle shifts attention from causes to effects (states or inchoatives).
The Creek direct causative has the opposite function of shifting attention
from effects to causes. The Creek impersonal plural serves to background the
cause. Finally, the Creek indirect causative introduces primary causes:
(77) postverbal elements changing external (clause-level) orientation
Cr. middle
Cr. dir. caus.
Cr. impers. pl.
Cr. indir. caus.
marked
Towards effect
Towards cause
Away from cause
Towards primary cause
unmarked
Towards cause
Towards effect or state
Towards cause
Towards cause
This pattern contrasts sharply with English, where passive voice combines
functions of the Creek middle and impersonal plural.
The voice-related prefixes in Creek can be described in terms of the changes
they bring about in internal (predicate-level) orientation:
(78) preverbal elements changing internal (predicate-level) orientation
Cr. dat. applic.
Cr. inst. applic.
marked
Towards secondary effect
Towards manner
unmarked
Towards effect
Towards effect
Within a predicate, the unmarked orientation is towards the effect. The dative
and instrumental applicatives function to reorient the predicate towards sec-
ondary effects (benefactives or malefactives) and /or towards manner (how the
activity was performed), respectively.
Describing these two systems of external and internal orientation as a
single phenomenon of ‘voice’ may be too broad, but, as we have seen, it offers
certain advantages over descriptions involving valency. Describing the Creek
middle as valency-reducing fails to explain why it fails to create S = A intrans-
itives (e.g. John cooks). Describing causatives and applicatives as valency-
increasing ignores the important functional differences between these patterns.
Describing a causative as ‘adding an agent’ ignores the fact that aspect is often
affected in direct causatives and that indirect causatives add an event in addi-
tion to an agent.
402 Jack B. Martin
In describing the Creek phenomena in this chapter, I have begun to question
whether valency or valency-changing have any real significance in language.
It is clear that verbs can be classified based on the number of arguments they
take, but it is not clear that this classification functions elsewhere in the
grammar. The chemical metaphor has been useful in allowing linguists to
categorize morphological processes and lends a certain scientific aura to our
work, but it remains to be seen whether describing a particular process as
adding or subtracting an argument adequately characterizes its function or
whether humans engage in arithmetic processes as they speak.
This chapter has begun to suggest a way that valency can be reduced to
event view. Valency can be seen as the ability of a predicate to incorporate
entities into a particular event view, thus assigning those entities roles within
the clause. Predicates that customarily involve an initiator and one or more
affectees (John painted the house, Mary gave John a book) will develop gram-
mars in which the inclusion of these entities is unmarked; clauses in which
there is no initiator (The snow is white) or where the initiator is unknown and
the endpoint is of interest (The snow melted) will develop unmarked forms
with fewer arguments. Just as valency is the codification of these unmarked
event views, valency-changing processes are perhaps better described as
changes in event view from the unmarked to a marked perspective.
If this approach is right, then it may be time for a new metaphor in linguist-
ics: perhaps the chemical metaphor has exceeded its half-life.
Texts cited
1936. Mary R. Haas, Creek Notebook I, University of California, Berkeley.
1939. Mary R. Haas, Creek Notebook XV, University of California, Berkeley.
1992a. Stories told by Linda Alexander, Norman, Oklahoma.
1992b. Stories told by Toney Hill, Norman, Oklahoma.
1992c. Stories told by Robert Washington, Norman, Oklahoma.
References
Baker, M.C. 1988. Incorporation: a theory of grammatical function changing. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Barber, E.J.A. 1975. ‘Voice: beyond the passive’, Berkeley Linguistics Society 1.16–23.
Booker, K.M. 1984. ‘Directional prefixes in Creek’, pp. 59–87 of Proceedings of the
1983 Mid-America Linguistics Conference, ed. D.S. Rood. Boulder: Department
of Linguistics, University of Colorado.
Creek 403
Breen, J.G. 1981. ‘Margany and Gunya’, pp. 274–393 of Handbook of Australian
languages, Vol. II, ed. R.M.W. Dixon and B.J. Blake. Canberra: Australian
National University Press.
Comrie, B. 1989. Language universals and linguistic typology: syntax and morpho-
logy, 2nd edn. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Croft, W. 1994. ‘Voice: beyond control and affectedness’, pp. 89–117 of Voice: form
and function, ed. B. Fox and P.J. Hopper. Typological studies in language 27.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Crystal, D. 1985. A dictionary of linguistics and phonetics, 2nd edn. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
Grayson, G.W. 1885. ‘Creek vocabulary and verb paradigms with occasional ethno-
graphic notes’, National Anthropological Archives #568-a. Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Washington, D.C.
Haas, M.R. 1940. ‘Ablaut and its function in Muskogee’, Language 16.141–50.
1977. ‘From auxiliary verb phrase to inflectional suffix’, pp. 525–37 of Mechan-
isms of syntactic change, ed. C.N. Li. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Hardy, D.E. 1988. ‘The semantics of Creek morphosyntax’. Ph.D. thesis. Rice
University, Houston.
1994. ‘Middle voice in Creek’, International Journal of American Linguistics,
60.39–68.
Jespersen, O. 1924. The philosophy of grammar. London: George Allen and Unwin.
Kemmer, S. 1993. The middle voice, Typological studies in language 23. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Klaiman, M.H. 1988. ‘Affectedness and control: a typology of voice systems’,
pp. 25–83 of Passive and middle voice, ed. M. Shibatani. Amsterdam, Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Martin, J.B. 1991a. ‘Lexical and syntactic aspects of Creek causatives’, International
Journal of American Linguistics, 57.194–229.
1991b. ‘The determination of grammatical relations in syntax’. Ph.D. thesis. UCLA.
ms. ‘External possession in Creek’. To appear in External possession, ed. Doris
Payne and I. Barski. Amsterdam, Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Martin, J.B. and Mauldin, M.M. ms. ‘A dictionary of Creek (Muskogee) with notes
on the Florida and Oklahoma Seminole dialects of Creek’. To appear. Lincoln/
London: University of Nebraska Press.
Munro, P. 1996. ‘Valence arithmetic in the Tolkapaya lexicon’, pp. 113–29 of Pro-
ceedings of the Hokan-Penutian Workshop, ed. V. Golla. Survey of California
and Other Languages Report 9. Berkeley: University of California.
Munro, P. and Gordon, L. 1982. ‘Syntactic relations in Western Muskogean: a typo-
logical perspective’, Language 58.81–115.
Nathan, M. 1977. ‘Grammatical description of the Florida Seminole dialect of Creek’.
Ph.D. thesis. Tulane University.
404 Index of authors
Index of authors
Abbott, M. 36
Abitov, M. L. 49, 60
Afcan, P. 84
Aikhenvald, A. Y. 1–27, 32, 35, 43, 46, 51,
53, 64, 67, 71–3, 138, 145–72, 173,
176, 236, 278, 357, 376
Aissen, J. 37
Alcalay, R. 43
Allen, B. J. 44
Allen, J. 115
Allen, W. S. 57
Alsina, A. 320
Amberber, M. 5, 11–12, 14, 23, 34, 51, 63,
312–32
Arce-Aranales, M. 178
Arokianathan, S. 67
Aronson, H. I. 34
Austin, P. 11, 21, 32, 70
Axelrod, M. 178, 183, 189–90, 211, 223–4,
226–7
Ayres, G. 276
Baker, M. C. 44, 53, 63, 319, 389
Barber, E. J. A. 375
Barnard, J. T. O. 282
Bauer, W. 64
Benedict, P. K. 296, 308
Beyene, T. 329
Bhatia, T. K. 55
Bokarev, E. A. 362
Booker, K. M. 378
Borgman, D. M. 55
Breen, J. G. 396
Bruce, L. 69, 73
Campbell, L. 8, 10, 15, 23, 34, 64, 236–81
Capell, A. 334
Chapman, S. 43
Clifton, J. R. 68
Cole, P. 50–1, 66
Comrie, B. 5, 23–4, 26, 32, 35, 48, 51,
54–5, 74, 77–8, 357, 360–74, 377
Cook, A. 334
Cook, E.-D. 184, 193–4
Cooreman, A. 10
Corbett, G. G. 176
Croft, W. 375, 378, 386, 389, 391, 394
Crowley, T. M. 34, 44, 63, 159
Crystal, D. 375
Curnow, T. J. 57, 71
Dai Qingxia 282, 308
Davies, W. D. 236, 239, 243, 251, 253–4,
257–61, 265, 269, 272–3
Dayley, J. P. 248, 250, 262, 273
Demoz, A. 314
Derbyshire, D. C. 43, 57, 62
Dimmendaal, G. 43
Dixon, R. M. W. 1–29, 30–83, 117, 130,
138, 145–6, 148, 164, 170, 173, 213,
236, 262, 278, 318, 357–8, 376, 396
Driem, G. van 308
Dubinsky, S. 59
Durie, M. 160
Egede, P. 84
England, N. C. 16
Eva, H. 51
Evans, N. 63, 352
Fenyvesi, A. 55
Fodor, J. A. 40
Foley, W. 39, 64, 68, 159
Fortescue, M. 55, 93
Index of authors 405
Fox, B. 178
Frantz, D. G. 44
Frawley, W. 30, 358
Gair, J. W. 55
Gardiner, D. B. 44
Gibson, J. 53
Givón, T. 74, 77
Goddard, P. E. 177
Golla, V. 174–5, 180–1, 185, 187, 189, 195,
201–2, 218–19, 221–2
Golovko, E. V. 73
Gordon, L. 379
Grayson, G. W. 397
Grimes, C. E. 69
Grimshaw, J. 328
Guerssel, M. 319
Guirardello, R. 49
Gwynn, J. P. L. 49
Haas, M. R. 38, 375, 378, 381, 402
Haile, G. 321
Haiman, J. 70, 74, 77, 165
Hale, K. 37, 157, 199, 204, 206, 208, 236,
251, 258
Hardy, D. E. 378, 381
Hargus, S. 179, 230
Haspelmath, M. 11, 120, 316–17, 327, 367
Haviland, J. 26
Hetzron, R. 43, 46, 69
Hewitt, B. G. 55, 57
Hinton, L. 70
Hoijer, H. 187
Holes, C. 34
Hopper, P. J. 19, 124, 229–30, 342, 346
Hurd, C. 115
Hyslop, C. 64
ImnajUvili, D. S. 362
Jacobson, S. A. 84, 90, 92, 97, 100–1, 104,
107, 109–10
Jelinek, E. 175
Jespersen, O. 376
Jetté, J. 180, 182, 184, 188, 190, 200, 202,
205, 209, 212, 214, 220
Jeyapaul, V. Y. 60
Jones, E. 180, 182, 184, 188, 190, 200, 202,
205, 209, 212, 214, 220
Joseph, B. D. 38
Kachru, Y. 67
Kakumasu, J. 63
Kari, J. 175–6, 179–85, 188–9, 200, 203–5,
210–13, 220, 225, 230
Karjalainen, M. 55
Kaufman, T. 240, 279
Kazenin, K. I. 6, 21
Keenan, E. L. 54
Kemmer, S. 11–12, 122, 179, 191, 230, 290,
331, 381
Kenesei, I. 55
Keyser, S. J. 11
Kibrik, A. A. 177–8, 185, 192, 194, 197–9,
203, 220, 223–4, 226–8
Kimenyi, A. 4
Klaiman, M. H. 120, 122, 386
Kleinschmidt, S. 84, 96
Koehn, E. 55, 61
Koehn, S. 55, 61
Konaré, M. 31, 57
Kornfilt, J. 54, 55
Koul, O. N. 34
Kozinsky, I. 51
Krauss, M. 84, 177
Krishnamurti, Bh. 49, 68
Kulikov, L. I. 59, 71
LaPolla, R. J. 3, 8, 11–12, 15, 23, 26–7, 43,
50, 57, 61, 282–311
Larsen, T. W. 236, 240, 243, 250–4, 256–8,
261, 263, 267, 277
Lee, Y. 73
Leslau, W. 312, 314
Levin, B. 315, 318
Li, C. N. 38, 117
Li, F.-K. 194
Liu, J. 282
Lloret, M.-R. 59
Lo, C. 282
Lord, C. 34
Lyons, J. 11
Mahootian, S. 36
Maran, L. R. 68
Martin, J. B. 4, 8, 12, 14, 24, 27, 51, 65,
375–403
Masica, C. P. 68
Matisoff, J. A. 34, 59, 284
Mauldin, M. M. 385, 393
McDonough, J. 178
McGregor, W. 334, 336
Mei, T. 296
Merlan, F. 328, 334
Mester, A. 328
Michailovsky, B. 308
Midgette, S. 188, 190, 197–8, 203, 206–8,
210–11, 216–17, 221
Mithun, M. 5, 6, 7, 10, 15, 17–18, 22, 26,
32, 48, 72, 84–114, 266
Miyaoka, O. 84
Mohanan, K. P. 319
406 Index of authors
Mondloch, J. L. 236–7, 241–52, 255, 257,
259–60, 264, 266, 269, 271–3, 275–6,
278
Moravcsik, E. 61
Morgan, W. 175, 180–2, 184, 186–8, 190,
197–8, 201, 203, 206–8, 210–11,
216–17, 221, 227–8
Morice, A. G. 181, 183, 186, 189–90, 195,
203, 205, 210, 221
Morse, R. H. 283–4, 296
Mosel, U. 52
Munro, P. 377, 379
Nathan, M. 378
Nedjalkov, I. 56
Nedjalkov, V. P. 43, 48, 60, 62, 64, 74, 92
Newman, P. 59
Nichols, J. 17, 19, 32, 112
Nik’te’, M. J. S. I. 245–6, 255, 265
Norman, W. M. 240, 242, 250, 252, 254,
256, 259–60, 273, 277
O’Connor, M. C. 32, 112
Oliver, D. 122
Olson, M. 159
Onishi, M. 5, 12, 15, 16, 22, 45, 61, 64, 71,
115–44
Oswalt, R. L. 17, 32, 112
Otaina, G. A. 43, 48, 60, 62
Owens, J. 51
Palmer, F. R. 54
Pandharipande, R. V. 45, 55, 65
Pastika, W. 64
Payen, D. L. 51, 60
Payne, T. E. 51
Philippaki-Warbuton, I. 38
Platero, P. 199, 204, 206, 208
Polinsky, M. 51, 362, 370, 374
Popjes, J. 36
Rajabov, R. 362
Rappaport, M. 315
Reed, I. 84
Reid, N. 8, 15, 21, 23, 26, 41, 328, 333–59
Rice, K. 5, 8, 12, 18, 21, 23, 27, 61, 64–5,
173–235
Robinson, S. 9, 64
Roeper, T. 11
Saksena, A. 67, 73
Saltarelli, M. 57
Sam Colop, L. E. 236, 239, 243, 248, 251,
253–4, 256–61, 264–5, 267–9, 272–3,
278
Saqijix, C. D. L. I. 243, 245–6, 255, 265
Sastry, G. D. P. 47
Saxon, L. 175, 192–3, 196
Schachter, P. 160
Schaub, W. 53
Schultze-Berndt, E. 334
Seki, L. 55
Senn, A. 34
Shaler, D. 170
Sharma, J. C. 68
Shibatani, M. 9, 12, 16, 30, 65, 90, 331
Shopen, T. 31, 57
Siewierska, A. 9
Silnitsky, G. G. 64, 74
Smith-Stark, T. 250, 266
Sohn, H.-M. 31
Song, J. J. 33, 44
Sridhar, S. N. 45, 55
Stanley, R. 179
Storto, L. 236, 251, 258
Story, G. 174
Suhandano 34, 52, 71
Sulkala, H. 55
Sumbatova, N. R. 46, 56
Sun, H. 282
Svantesson, J.-O. 53, 70
Tampubolon, D. P. 63
Tamura, S. 43
Tavares, P. 46
Tenenbaum, J. 195
Thomas, D. D. 69
Thomas, D. M. 69–70
Thompson, C. 19, 174–5, 177–9, 181–3,
185–6, 191–3, 195, 223–4
Thompson, S. A. 19, 38, 117, 125, 229–30,
342, 346
Tonoike, S. 65
Trechsel, F. R. 236, 240, 251, 255, 258–9,
261–2, 266, 272–3, 275
Trithart, M. 53
Tsujimura, N. 65
Tuttle, S. 230
Vago, R. M. 55
Vitale, A. J. 53, 66
Vogel, A. 53
Wali, K. 34
Watkins, L. J. 35
Willie, M. 175
Wise, M. R. 73
Woodbury, A. C. 84, 93
XolodoviQ, A. A. 43, 48, 60, 62
Xu, X. 308
Young, R. W. 175, 180–2, 184, 186–8, 190,
197–8, 201, 203, 206–8, 210–11,
216–17, 221, 227–8
Index of languages and language families 407
Index of languages and language
families
Abaza 57
Abkhaz 57, 65, 76, 376
Afroasiatic 51
Ahtna 65, 173–7, 180–5, 188, 200, 203–5,
210–13, 216, 220, 222–3, 231–2
Ainu 43
Akan 160
Alabama 378
Alamblak 69, 73, 76–7
Aleut 73
Amazonian languages 154
Ambae 64
Amharic 5, 8, 11–12, 14–15, 23, 34, 51–2,
63, 75–6, 312–32
Andi 360
Andic 360
Anung 282–3
Apachean 173
Apalachee 378
Apalai 55, 60, 62, 68, 75–7
Arabic 64
Arawá 43, 53
Arawak 22, 73, 145–6, 159
Armenian 64
Asiatic Eskimo 21
Athapaskan 5, 8, 12, 18–19, 21–3, 27, 61,
64, 173–235
Australian languages 11, 17–18, 21, 23, 26,
31–2, 39, 41, 44, 63, 70, 333–4
Austroasiatic 53
Austronesian 34, 38, 43, 52–3, 64, 69, 76,
115
Avar 361
Awa Pit 53, 57–8
Babungo 53
Bahasa Indonesian 63, 76
Balinese 64
Bambara 21
Bandjalang 44
Baniwa 157
Bantu 52–3, 389
Barbacoan 57
Bare 157, 159
Basque 57, 65, 76, 376
Bats 64
Bengali 45
Berber 319
Bezhta 360
Bodic 47
Bolivian Quechua 66
Buin 115
Buru 69, 76–7
Campa 170
Canela-Kraho 36
Capanawa 60
Carib 36, 46, 55, 57, 62
Carrier 65, 181, 183, 186, 189–90, 195,
203–5, 210, 212, 216, 221–2, 231–2
Catalan 35
Central Alaskan Yup'ik, see Yup'ik
Chamorro 53
Chechen-Ingush 17, 19, 32, 112, 360
Chichewa 53, 319, 320
Chickasaw 378, 389
Chinese 283–4, 291
Chipewyan 230
Choctaw 378, 389
Chrau 69–70, 75–7
Chukchee 32, 64
Classical Chinese 38
Colonial K'iche' 238
Coptic 112
408 Index of languages and language families
Creek 4, 8, 12, 14–15, 24, 27, 51–2, 75–6,
375–403
Cushitic 51
Daghestanian 23, 55, 360, 364, 366
Daly languages 328, 336
Dargwa 360
Dena’ina 195, 232
Dido 360
Diyari 11, 70
Dogrib 8, 174, 192–3, 196, 230
Dravidian 45, 49, 68
Dulong 23, 282–3, 291, 296, 303
Dulong-Rawang 3, 11–12, 15, 17, 23, 26, 27,
57, 61, 65, 282–311
Dutch 51, 290
Dvru 283
Dyirbal 4, 17, 27, 39
East Bougainville 115
East Caucasian 360
East Tucano 146, 153, 154
English 2, 4, 11, 20–1, 24, 32, 36–9, 40–2,
52, 59, 69, 72, 74, 76, 125, 148, 291,
295, 305, 316, 318, 325, 339, 350,
366–7, 380–1, 388, 401
Eskimo 22, 84–5, 94; and see West
Greenlandic Eskimo, Yup'ik
Eskimo-Aleut 84, 93
Ethio-Semitic 23, 312, 328
European languages 237
Evenki 56
Eyak 179
Fijian 5, 21, 38, 64, 72, 76
Finnish 55
French 35, 37, 54–5, 59, 74, 174, 289, 381
Galice 187, 231, 232
Gamo 51, 52
Ganung 283
Georgian 34, 56
Gojri 68
Gooniyandi 336
Grassfields Bantu 53
Greek 11, 12, 38, 120
Greenlandic 84, 93
Gulf Arabic 34
Guugu-Yimidhirr 20, 26
Hausa 64
Hebrew 43, 52
Hindi 67, 70, 73, 75–7
Hinukh 360
Hitchiti-Mikasuki 378
Hixkaryana 57, 62
Hungarian 43, 45, 55, 60–1, 70
Hunzib 360
Hupa 173–5, 180–1, 185, 187, 189, 195,
201–2, 216, 218–19, 221–2, 228, 231–2
Icelandic 381
Imbabura Quechua 51, 52
Indo-European 45, 55, 68, 120
Ingush, see Chechen-Ingush
Iroquoian 63
Italian 35, 54, 381
Jakalteko 240
Japanese 9, 26, 45, 55–6, 66, 76
Jarawara 4, 21, 22, 53, 59, 64
Javanese 34, 52, 71
Jê 36
Jinghpaw 68, 70, 75–7, 282, 308
Kabardian 49, 60
Kamaiurá 55–6, 73, 75
Kammu 53, 70, 74, 76
Kannada 45, 55
Karbi 60
Kartvelian 46
Kashmiri 34
Kayardild 63
Khwarshi 360
K'iche' 8, 10, 15, 23, 34, 64, 236–81
K'ichean 236
Kimberley languages 328, 336
Kinyarwanda 4
Kiowa 35, 37
Kiowa-Tanoan 35, 44
Koasati 378
Korean 31, 65, 70, 73, 76–7
Koyukon 64, 173–4, 180–6, 188, 190–3,
195, 200, 202, 204–5, 209, 211–12,
214–16, 220, 222, 226–7, 231–2
Kriol 339
Kuku-Yalanji 18
Kurdish 64
Kwinpang 282–3
Lahu 34, 59, 284
Lak 360
Latin 4
Lezgian 360
Lezgic 360
Lithuanian 34
Longmi 283
Lower Sepik 39
Macushi 36
Malay 63, 76
Malayalam 319
Index of languages and language families 409
Mam 17, 240
Mangarayi 41
Maori 64
Marathi 45, 55, 65
Margany 396
Mattole 194–5, 231–2
Mayan 9, 10, 17, 23, 64, 76, 236–81
Mesoamerican languages 242
Mishmi 47
Misumalpan 37
Mixtec 70, 76–7
Mixtecan 70
Modern Hebrew 26
Mohawk 63
Motuna 3, 5, 12, 22, 61, 64, 71–2, 115–44
Muskogean 24, 378, 389
Mvtwang 283, 288, 291, 302–3
Na-Dene 179
Naasioi 115, 120
Nagovisi 115
Nahualá 237, 261
Nakh 360
Nakh-Daghestanian 360
Navajo 65, 174–5, 180–1, 182, 184, 186–8,
190, 192, 194–8, 201, 203–4, 206–12,
214, 216–18, 220–2, 227–8, 230–2
Newari 3
Ngan'gikurunggurr 333
Ngan'gityemerri 8, 15, 21, 23, 26, 41, 328,
333–59
Ngen'giwumirri 333
Nilo-Saharan 31, 43
Nivkh, or Gilyak 43, 46, 48, 59–60, 62, 68,
75–7
Nomatsiguenga 73, 75
Non-Austronesian languages 22, 115
North-Arawak 153, 157
North-east Caucasian 23–4, 55, 360
North-west Caucasian 49, 57
Nujiang Dulong 283
Nung 283
Oceanic 39
Old Norse 290
Omotic 51
Oromo 51–2
Paamese 34–5, 159
Pacific Coast languages 173
Pajonal Campa 14, 170
Pano 60
Papuan languages 22, 69, 115–16, 120
Paumarí 43
Persian 36
Petats 43
Pomo 32
Pomoan 112
Portuguese 37, 164
Proto-Arawak 146
Proto-Athapaskan 19
Proto-K'ichean 245
Proto-Mayan 245
Proto-Na-déné 19
Proto-Sino-Tibetan 296
Punjabi 55
Qiang 43, 49
Quiche, see K'iche
Rawang, see Dulong-Rawang
Romance 36
Russian 71, 76, 290, 367, 381
Sanskrit 120
Sanuma 55
Sekani 174, 230, 232
Semitic 51, 312
Sinhalese 55
Sino-Tibetan 284, 296, 308
Slave 173, 175, 180–7, 189–91, 193, 200,
203–4, 209, 214–16, 230–2
Songhai 31
Sonrai 31, 57, 65, 376
South-Arawak 14, 170
South Asian languages 45, 68
Southern Tiwa 44
Spanish 35, 71, 237, 381
Svan 46
Swahili 52–3, 59, 66–7, 75–6
Tangkhul Naga 67, 74, 76
Tangsarr 283
Tariana 4, 5, 8, 15, 17, 22, 32, 34–5,
42–3, 46, 51, 64, 67, 71–2, 75–7,
145–72
Telugu 49, 68
Tibetan 3
Tibeto-Burman 23, 43, 47, 49, 59–60, 67–8,
282, 289–90
Tlingit 179
Tok Pisin 125
Tolai 52
Tolkapaya 377
Tonga 3
Trumai 3, 49
Tsez 5, 23, 24, 55, 360–74
Tsezic 360
Tsova Tush 360
Tsuut’ina 184, 193, 195, 232
Tucano 145
Tungusic 56
410 Index of languages and language families
Tunica 38
Tupí 55, 63
Tupí-Guaraní 55, 63
Turkan 43
Turkish 54–6, 60
Tututni 231–2
Tzotzil 9, 64
Uradhi 63
Urubu-Kaapor 63
Warekena 157, 159
Wargamay 17
Wayana 46
West Bougainville 115
West Greenlandic Eskimo 55
Western Romance 37, 54
Wolof 32
Wvdamkong 282–3
Yagua 51, 52
Yanomami 55
Yidiny 18, 19, 31, 63, 396
Yimas 35, 37, 41, 64, 68, 70, 75
Yoruba 34
Yucatec 266
Yup'ik 6–7, 10, 15, 18, 22, 26, 32, 48, 70,
72, 84–114
Zulu 74
Subject index 411
Subject index
ablative 10, 85, 89–90, 94, 109–10, 113,
362
absolutive 49, 85–6, 88–92, 94–5, 97, 102,
105–6, 108, 110–12, 115, 117–18,
122, 237–8, 245, 250–1, 254, 257,
259–60, 262, 265–6, 271, 274–5,
361–5, 370–4
accusative 11, 21, 24, 32, 36, 44–6, 49–51,
56, 65–6, 68–9, 73, 146, 312, 320,
322–7, 334
action verbs 63
active verbs 146–7, 149–50, 155, 160–2,
164–5, 273, 275
active voice 8, 21, 37, 116, 119–24, 126–31,
137, 139–40, 142, 245, 247, 263, 267,
269–72, 278, 280, 382, 384, 386, 399
adessive 55
adversative 9, 26, 90, 92–3, 111, 296, 308–9
affectedness 62–3, 67, 76–8, 137, 158, 226,
229, 309
agent addition 105–8
agent omission 89–93
allative 55, 85, 90, 102, 105, 107, 113, 289
ambitransitives 4, 6, 24, 27, 33, 38–9, 64,
87, 91–2, 119, 126–9, 137, 140–1, 148,
154, 166, 170, 242, 271–3, 284, 289,
294, 310, 313
agentive, see S = A below
patientive, see S = O below
S = O 5–6, 8, 20, 38–9, 64, 71–2, 87–9,
91, 96–8, 110–13, 126, 149, 284–5,
366, 377
S = A 5–6, 20, 22, 24, 38–9, 64, 87–8,
91–4, 96–8, 101, 111, 113, 148, 166,
175, 284–5, 313, 366, 377, 386, 401
S = A = O 5, 11, 126
S = P, see S = O above
anticausative 1, 6–8, 10–12, 20–1, 23–4,
185, 313–17, 325, 330–1, 343, 347,
358, 366
antipassive 1, 6–7, 9–12, 16–18, 20–7, 31–2,
44, 89, 93, 96, 110–13, 236, 241–3,
250–1, 259, 266, 271–4, 287
absolutive 10–11, 250–1, 266–71, 273,
280
agent-focus 10–11, 250–69, 274–5, 280
patientless 9–10, 24
applicative 1, 6, 12–17, 20–3, 25–7, 31, 97,
108–13, 116–18, 126, 131–7, 140–1,
145, 170, 284, 296, 304, 306, 308,
321–5, 330, 354–6, 375–7, 380,
389–90, 393, 397, 400–1
benefactive 14, 23, 44, 295–6, 304–8
dative 14, 27, 389–92, 401
instrumental 14–15, 23, 27, 236, 278,
392–3, 401
locative 335, 346, 356–7
malefactive 322
presentative 14, 333, 335, 346, 356–7
atelicity 230
auxiliary verb 41, 59, 74, 78, 150–1, 288,
293–4, 296, 303, 305–7, 328, 334, 364,
381
benefactive 12, 14–16, 44, 97–8, 109,
112–13, 147, 170, 182–3, 191, 228,
232, 292–3, 304–6, 308, 330, 381–91,
401
causatives 1, 5–6, 12–17, 20–7, 30–83,
98–105, 107, 112–13, 116–17, 126–31,
137, 140–1, 145, 147, 154, 159–61,
164–6, 168–70, 178, 199–222, 229–31,
240, 242, 277, 280, 284–6, 288,
412 Subject index
295–304, 308, 317–21, 330, 342–4,
349, 357–8, 363, 365, 367–9, 375–8,
382, 399–401
analytical 35, 74, 296, 299, 302–3
derivational 98
direct 67–8, 296, 298, 394–401
double 59–61, 155, 158–9, 164, 299
indirect 67–8, 70, 296, 298–9, 301,
397–401
lexical 38–40, 59, 65, 72, 74, 78, 317
inflectional 302
morphological 23, 43, 48, 51, 57, 61,
64–5, 67, 71–2, 74–5, 77–8, 127–30,
154–9, 161–5, 168–9, 215, 317–20
periphrastic 23, 33, 35–7, 42, 47, 55, 59,
61, 63–4, 69, 71–2, 74, 77–8, 154,
161–5, 169, 209, 215, 296, 302, 317,
321
classifiers 115–16, 145, 173, 176–8, 184,
334, 336
comitative 14–15, 26–7, 109, 152–3, 170,
304
complement clause 36–7
complex predicate 74, 147–8, 160, 313,
328–30
complex verb 328, 333–59
constituent order 24, 41–3, 52, 115, 145,
243–4, 262, 309, 362, 369–73, 378
control 18, 62–3, 65, 72, 76–8, 214–15, 362,
397–8
coordination 160
coreferential noun phrase 24, 369, 372–3
coverb 21, 23, 334–7, 339–51, 354–8
dative 3, 15, 17–18, 45–6, 50, 52, 54–9,
65–6, 73, 265, 267, 284, 286, 289, 291,
296–7, 303–4, 306, 400
deagentive 22, 116–17, 126, 137–8, 140
dependent-marking 115, 145, 312
detransitivizer 23, 44, 96–7, 112, 313–15
directness 62, 67–70, 75–8
ditransitive 3, 30, 42–4, 47–8, 52, 54–63,
65, 76, 148, 150, 154, 285, 296–9, 313,
363, 368, 376
ergative 10–11, 15, 21, 24, 32, 36, 45, 49,
56, 85, 87, 94, 97, 102, 105–6, 111,
115, 117, 122, 237–8, 243, 250–1, 254,
257, 262, 274–5, 361, 363–5, 367–8,
370–3
errative 12, 19, 189–91, 228, 232
evidentiality 34, 147–8, 160
finite verb 21, 23, 334–49, 354–5, 357–8
fluid-S system 5, 121, 157
focus 239, 256–7, 261–3, 275
genitive 45, 55, 85, 292, 362, 364
grammaticalization 37, 240
head-marking 115, 145, 312
impersonals 43, 324–5, 335, 349–51, 358,
377, 383, 387–9, 399–401
inchoative 101, 121, 242, 248, 367, 386, 394,
396
incorporated body parts 183–4, 191, 232,
333, 335, 350–4, 356
instrumental 14–15, 46, 49, 53, 55, 66–7,
69, 85, 146, 152–3, 168, 170, 227, 265,
278–9, 298, 304, 308, 321–2, 330,
392–3, 398, 400
intention 62, 68, 70–1, 76–8, 213
intransitivizer 5, 8, 12
inverse 7, 22, 262
involvement 62–3, 73, 75, 78
iterative 12, 19, 188–9, 191, 218, 228–9, 232
lexicalization 26, 178, 223–8
lexical verb 33, 35–7, 41–2, 47, 67, 74,
176–7, 334, 336, 339, 364, 366
locative 14, 18, 50, 55, 85, 170, 224–5, 265,
278, 284, 286, 289, 291, 296–9, 303–4,
306, 322, 330, 380
malefactive 14, 16, 97–8, 109–10, 112–13,
322–5, 330, 389–91, 401
markedness 358, 367
mediopassive 184–5, 192, 232, 271–2
middle (voice) 1, 7–8, 11–12, 23–4, 27, 64,
116, 118–31, 137–40, 142, 178–91,
197, 199, 216–26, 228–30, 232, 272,
289–96, 301–3, 306–8, 331, 375–7,
381–7, 395–6, 399–401
naturalness 62–3, 71–2, 76–8
nominalization 266, 287
nominative 45, 312, 334, 378, 397
noun incorporation 26, 266, 289
passive 1, 4, 6–12, 15–18, 20–6, 31–2, 42,
51, 89–93, 111–12, 124, 138, 147–8,
150–4, 169–70, 179, 185–6, 191–9,
219, 221–2, 228–9, 232, 236, 243,
245–7, 250–1, 253, 274, 276–7, 287,
309, 314–17, 323, 325–6, 330–1,
375–6, 381, 383, 388, 401
agentive 192, 197–9
agentless 7, 9, 24, 31, 347, 350
completive 8, 246, 248–50, 276, 280
impersonal 8, 21, 151, 192–7
personal 8, 21, 192–7
simple 8, 244–9, 253, 273, 280
Subject index 413
patient omission 93–8
perambulative 12, 19, 190–1, 232
periphrastic verb 7, 38, 69–70, 364
permissive 299, 320
pivot 10, 16–18, 21–2, 24, 32, 238, 251, 254,
257
possession 85, 133, 242, 265, 278, 305, 313
possessive 55, 86, 116, 218, 242–3, 245,
265, 274, 276–7, 291, 293, 303, 326–7,
365, 367, 369–70, 390–1
presentative 14
punctuality 230
reciprocal 1, 6–7, 11–12, 18, 22–4, 26–7,
109, 116, 126, 137, 140, 147, 152–4,
169–70, 179, 181–2, 188, 191, 228–9,
232, 276–7, 288, 313, 325, 327, 330–1,
382, 386
reduplication 34, 71, 74, 331, 396
reflexive 1, 5–7, 11–12, 18, 23–4, 26–7, 86,
122, 126, 128, 130, 142, 150, 153–4,
179–82, 184, 188, 191, 228–9, 232,
271, 274–7, 289–96, 299–303, 306–8,
313–14, 325–7, 330–1, 343–4, 347–9,
355, 357–8, 369–72, 381–2, 386, 395
relative clause 54, 251, 253–5, 257, 261
relativization 250–4, 256
repetitive 12, 147, 171, 190–1, 232
resultative 92, 121, 147, 202–4
Sa 8, 22, 46, 64, 118, 120–1, 126–8, 131,
133, 138, 140–1, 146–9, 154–6, 162,
164–6, 170
semipassive 197–9, 209, 221, 232
serial verb constructions 23, 32, 34–5, 43,
68–9, 74–5, 147–8, 154, 159–66, 169
Sio 22, 146–7, 149–50, 154, 156, 160–1,
164–5, 170
So 8, 22, 46, 64, 71, 117–18, 120–1, 126–7,
131, 133, 138, 140–1, 146–9, 154–6,
160, 162, 164–5, 170
split-S system 5, 8, 46, 116, 139
state verbs 63, 77
stative verbs 63, 146–9, 155, 160, 162–5,
170, 203, 218–19, 248, 284
stimulative 22, 116, 126, 138–40
subordinate clause 36–7, 86, 151–2, 378
subordination 160
subordinative mood 86, 103, 111–12
switch-reference marking 17, 37, 116–17,
147, 151–2, 172, 378
telicity 230
topicalization 243, 262, 370
transitivity value 15, 17, 19, 21, 39, 169,
342
transitivizer 166, 395
unaccusative 20, 206–8, 273, 313, 317–19,
323–5, 330
unergative 20, 206–8, 313, 317, 319, 322–4,
330
valency-decreasing derivations 19–22, 111,
170, 310, 347
valency-increasing derivations 12, 15, 19–22,
26, 31, 98, 105, 112, 116, 126–37,
140–1, 145, 154, 170, 283, 295–310,
344, 375, 377, 390–3, 397
valency-rearranging derivations 22, 138–40
valency-reducing derivations 7, 23–4, 26, 31,
89, 116, 137–8, 140–1, 145, 154, 169,
251, 284, 288–95, 309, 358, 375–7,
381–2, 385, 387, 389, 401
verb compounding 154
voice/valency 173, 176–80, 216–19, 222–30
double voice 216–19
volition 5, 62–3, 65–7, 72, 78, 213–14,
221, 229–30, 318, 320, 325, 362,
379
word order, see constituent order
