In (22), the V moves to v as well, and this gives (21b); the derivation of
(21a) will be discussed in Chapter 3.
Sportiche (1988), in his work on quantifier float, and Koopman and
Sportiche (1991), in their work on the position of subjects, show that
all arguments originate in the VP. This is the so-called VP-Internal
Subject Hypothesis, or VPISH. They argue (not using vP yet) that the
subject originates in the specifier of the VP and moves to the specifier
of IP (not TP then yet). I have indicated this position of the (subject)
Agent in the shell in (22) and also updated the IP as TP.
Empirical evidence for the VPISH is provided by quantifier float. In
quantifier float, it was assumed that the quantifier all in (23) and (24)
“floated” to the right, away from the DP the children.
(23) The children may all have painted a picture.
(24) The children may have all painted a picture.
Quantifier float is now seen as a process whereby the DP leaves the
quantifier behind as the DP moves from inside the VP to the left. If
the quantifier all starts out together with the DP the children, (23) and
(24) show where the DP the children has in fact moved from a lower
specifier position to a higher one. Positions where the children were not
base generated cannot have all, e.g. (25).
(25) a. *The children may have painted a picture all.
b. *The children may have painted all a picture.
Thus, the extension of X-bar rules to functional categories leads to an
increase in the use of functional categories and into how we view case
and agreement. This use of functional categories for case and agree-
ment leads to seeing the role of movement as changed: Movement
exists to check case in a Spec-Head relationship. Economy Principles
are formulated that reflect this view, for instance, “Last Resort” and
“Greed.” By the late 1990s, this approach is abandoned in favor of the
operation AGREE, where a head looks for matching features in its c-
command domain. We’ll see this in the next two sections.
1.2.2 Features and AGREE nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Structures such as (16) assume that all functional categories have a
one-to-one relation between a morphological feature and a functional
category, although we could split up the agreement features into
gender, person, and number. However, as mentioned, Chomsky
(1995: 349ff.) argues, in opposition to earlier work, that there is no
direct evidence for AGRs and AGRo in English and that they are not
14 I N T R O D U C T I O N
semantically relevant. Agreement expresses a relationship instead.
The only clausal functional categories that Chomsky currently uses
in the clause are C, T, and v (and presumably NEG and ASP etc. when
needed). We’ll talk about the issue of the number of functional cate-
gories in relation to Cartographic models in Section 1.3. I’ll now show
how abandoning the various functional categories also leads to
another view of checking, namely through AGREE.
First, I’ll add a little more on features and the role of morphology.
There are many types of feature: semantic (e.g. abstract object), pho-
nological (e.g. the sounds), and formal (Chomsky 1995: 230ff., 236,
277ff.). The formal ones are relevant to syntax and are divided into
intrinsic or optional. The intrinsic ones are “listed explicitly in the
lexical entry or strictly determined by properties so listed” (Chomsky
1995: 231) and include categorial features, the case-assigning features
of the verb, and the person and gender features of the noun. The
person, number, and gender features are usually referred to as phi-
features.
Optional features are added arbitrarily and are predictable from
linguistic Principles (e.g. nouns need case or some kind of licensing).
They include the tense and agreement features of verbs and the
number and case features of nouns. An example of a noun with its
features is provided in Figure 1.2. Typically, the intrinsic ones are valued
and the optional ones get a value assigned to them by checking/
matching.
The “much more important distinction” (Chomsky 1995: 277) is that
between interpretable and uninterpretable features. The inter-
pretable ones are relevant for interpretation at Logical Form (LF), and
airplane build
semantic: e.g. [artifact] e.g. [action]
phonological: e.g. [begins with a vowel; e.g. [one syllable]
two syllables]
formal:
intrinsic optional intrinsic optional
[nominal] [number] [verbal] [phi]
[3 person] [case] [assign accusative] [tense]
[non-human]
Figure 1.2 Features of airplane and build (adapted from Chomsky
1995: 231)
From phrase structure to Minimalist features 15
include categorial and nominal phi-features. They are not deleted or
erased after they are checked because they are relevant to the inter-
pretative component. In fact, semantic and formal features “intersect”
(Chomsky 2001: 10). Uninterpretable features receive a value when
they search and find an interpretable feature. These valued features
are not interpreted at LF; they just go to the PF and, in English, involve
the case features of NPs and verbs and the phi-features of verbs.
There are a number of reasons behind the distinction between
interpretable and uninterpretable features. Some features (e.g.
phi-features of nouns) remain visible after checking and hence
cannot be deleted. This is the reason nouns (and of course the
phrases they head) can move cyclically and provide the phi-
features along the way (Chomsky 1995: 282). This is not true of
the uninterpretable case feature. Once case has been checked by a
DP, that DP cannot move to check case elsewhere. Figure 1.3 pro-
vides the interpretable and uninterpretable features of the noun
airplane and the verb build.
Note that many intrinsic features are interpretable, but that con-
nection isn’t absolute. Note also that uninterpretable features cannot
be on their own in a sentence. There has to be something valuing
them.
There are different views on the role of morphological marking on
nouns and verbs. Chomsky often assumes a lexicalist approach, where
words are taken out of the lexicon fully inflected and then checked.
This is very possible in English, since it is a morphologically impov-
erished language with no overt case on nouns and very little agree-
ment on verbs. In languages with a lot of morphology, e.g. Turkish or
Navajo, the morphemes may occupy independent positions in func-
tional heads. In these languages it is not clear that we need both
uninterpretable and interpretable features; just the latter may do.
Now let’s return to the actual checking. In connection to features
and movement, there is a major change after 1995 (Chomsky 2000,
airplane build
interpretable: [nominal] [verbal]
[3 person] [assign accusative]
[non-human]
uninterpretable: [case] [phi]
Figure 1.3 Interpretable and uninterpretable features of airplane and
build (adapted from Chomsky 1995: 278)
16 I N T R O D U C T I O N
but originally proposed in 1998), namely checking through Spec-Head
agreement is replaced by a probe-goal checking system based on the
c-command relationship. Functional categories in need of feature
checking search down the tree for a Goal DP that will value their
features. An advantage of this shift is a simplification of the existential
construction in English (and other languages that have this). The pre-
2000 derivation of (26) involved invisible Raising of the postverbal DP
many buffaloes to the specifier of TP for agreement with the verb in
T. The invisibility was achieved by means of LF-Raising of the DP or
movement of the features of the DP, both very ad-hoc procedures.
(26) a. There were many buffaloes in the room.
b. There was a buffalo in the room.
The AGREE-version of (26a) is given in (27). The uninterpretable agree-
ment features in T find the DP in the specifier of VP (i.e. vP), and the
interpretable features of the DP value the phi-features of T, plural in
the case of many buffaloes, of T. (The T also has tense features, but I leave
those out for now.)
(27) TP
T’
T VP
[u-phi: 3P]
DP V’
many buffaloes
[i-3] [i-P] V PP
are
in the room
AGREE is done by an uninterpretable feature, a probe, searching in its
c-command domain (i.e. down the tree) for a Goal with appropriate
interpretable features. This means there is no movement to the speci-
fier position for reasons of case and agreement. The subject moves to
the specifier of the TP in English, but this is now because of the EPP, a
relatively stipulative condition that we also come back to in Chapter 4.
1.2.3 Derivations through Merge nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Apart from an emphasis on features and AGREE, another major
change in Minimalism is that explicit phrase structures, such as the
From phrase structure to Minimalist features 17
structure in (14) that descends from CP to TP to VP, are abandoned in
favor of a general rule Merge with bare phrase structure. I assume
bare phrase structure in this book, but often draw Cartographic
trees because they are more specific. In this section, I give a derivation
that is more or less the current version of a Minimalist derivation,
using pure Merge but still labeling the nodes.
In a Minimalist approach, a Modern English derivation proceeds in
four steps. First, items are selected from the lexicon. Chomsky (2007:
6) suggests the lexicon has “atomic elements, lexical items LI, each a
structured array of properties.” Abstracting away from features, a
lexical array could be {saw, it, T, Martians}. Second, the elements are
merged, e.g. saw and it in (28), and one of the heads (in this case V)
projects to a higher VP.
(28) VP
V D
saw it
The Merge in (28) is external Merge because the lexical items are taken
from the lexical array. If elements are moved, they are said to be
internally merged or remerged.
Already in Chomsky (1995), there is some debate as to whether there
is an additional labeling operation and which elements are selected
for Merge. Labels, such as VP or V’, introduce new elements into the
derivation and are therefore not allowed by the Inclusiveness
Condition. The Inclusiveness Condition bars material that wasn’t
initially selected from the lexicon from being introduced. Instead of
labels, the actual lexical item should be projected, as in (29), a really
bare structure.
(29) saw
saw it
There is also some discussion as to whether it always has to be the
head that projects (e.g. Chomsky 2005: 14), and this becomes a focus of
attention in Chomsky (2011). I will continue to use labels as in (28) and
elsewhere for convenience only (cf. Chomsky 1995: 244; 2004).
Third, after adding a (small) v and subject Martians to (28), as in (30),
the functional categories T and C are merged to vP. AGREE ensures
that the uninterpretable features on v and T find a noun with match-
ing (active) features to check agreement. When agreement is checked,
18 I N T R O D U C T I O N
so is what is often referred to as case (at least in many Indo-European
languages, but see Baker 2009 and Section 1.5 below for languages
without this connection). Following Pesetsky and Torrego (2001),2
I will refer to this case as [u-T] rather than nominative and as [u-obj]
rather than accusative. More on this in Chapter 4.
So, v and T probe (search) for a nominal that they c-command to
agree with. The v finds this nominal in it, and T finds this nominal in
Martians, and each element values its uninterpretable features, which
then delete. As T and v value their phi-features, the [u-T] and [u-obj] on
the nominals is also valued. The valuation of the phi-features on v is
not visible in English, but we assume it, based on other languages
where participles agree in number and gender, as we’ve seen in
Spanish (15) above.
The final structure looks like (30), where the features that are not
marked by “strike through” are interpretable and not subject to elim-
ination from the interpretable component, i.e. they are relevant at the
semantic interface. The features that are struck through have been
valued (also shown here) and go to the phonological interface. The
subject moves to Spec TP: it is merged from an internal position,
through Internal Merge, for language-specific reasons (EPP or OCC,
to be explored in Chapter 4).
(30) TP
Martians T'
[i-3P]
[u T: NOM]
[u phi: 3P]
[u obj]
[u phi: 3S]
[u obj: ACC]
[u T: past]
T vP
Martians v'
v VP
V D
saw it
[i-past] [i-3S]
2
Williams (1994: 11–12) is perhaps the first to argue that an NP has tense:
“Nominative NPs are simply tensed NPs.”
From phrase structure to Minimalist features 19
According to Chomsky (1995: 277–278), the case features on T and v
are uninterpretable, as are the case features on the DPs. Case in
English carries no meaning whatsoever. The derivation in (30) uses
early lexical insertion, as in Chomsky (1995; 2004), but nothing hinges
on this. The CP-Layer is not indicated in (30), although C is crucial in
“giving” tense to T, as we’ll see in Chapter 4.
At some point, the derivation has to be handed over to the
Sensorimotor (S-M) and Conceptual-Intentional (C-I) systems
external to the syntax. This is done through the interfaces PHON and
SEM, corresponding to PF and LF in older frameworks. Figure 1.4
shows these interfaces.
The transfer to the interface levels proceeds step-wise as the deriva-
tion proceeds (see phases in Section 1.4). What is actually pronounced
is “externalized,” and there are ways to decide which copy of e.g.
Martians in (30) to pronounce (again see Section 1.4 for further details).
This emphasis on language-external systems is formulated as the
Strong Minimalist Thesis.
(31) Strong Minimalist Thesis
Language is a perfect solution to interface conditions (Chomsky 2007: 3)
Thus, the syntax has to satisfy the requirements of the external sys-
tems, which is achieved via the interfaces PHON and SEM. The former
is responsible for linearization and externalization, e.g. what is
spelled out or pronounced (see Nunes 2004 for an account on how to
decide which copies to spell out).
For the C-I system, two aspects are very relevant: the theta-
structure and the status of the information provided. The theta-
structure must be mapped to the syntactic structure (more in
N(arrow) S(yntax)
Interfaces PHON SEM
External systems Sensorimotor Conceptual-Intentional
Lexicon
Figure 1.4 Interfaces
20 I N T R O D U C T I O N
Chapter 3). In English, the highest theta-role inside the vP/VP will end
up as the grammatical subject, so the theta-roles can be read off in
terms of their hierarchy. In other languages, special morphological
cases may indicate the theta-roles. Information structure refers to
topic and focus, sometimes seen as old and new information, and can
be determined through definiteness markers (typical for topics) or
through position. In Chinese, there are no definite and indefinite
articles. Indefinite objects and indefinite subjects appear towards the
end of the sentence, as (32a) and (33a) show; definite subjects and
objects appear pre-verbally, as in (32b) and (33b). So, although there
are no definite and indefinite articles, whether the information is
new or old is encoded through word order.
(32) a. chi le fan Chinese
eat PF rice
‘I ate some rice.’
b. fan chi le
rice eat PF
‘I ate the rice.’
(33) a. Lai le yi ge ren Chinese
come PF one CL man
‘A man came.’
b. Ren lai le
person come PF
‘The person has come.’ (Li and Thompson 1981: 20)
As Chomsky (2002: 113; 2008a) points out, the semantic component
expresses thematic as well as discourse information:
In “what John is eating what,” the phrase “what” appears in two
positions, and in fact those two positions are required for semantic
interpretation: the original position provides the information that
“what” is understood to be the direct object of “eat,” and the new
position, at the edge, is interpreted as a quantifier ranging over a
variable, so that the expression means something like “for which
thing x, John is eating the thing x” (Chomsky 2008a: 8)
What is actually spelled out, i.e. pronounced, linearly differs quite a
bit in specific languages because it depends on whether or not the
features trigger movement. These are the (infamous) so-called EPP
features (or OCC). I agree with Butler (2004), Reinhart (2006), and
Stroik (2009: 7) that these features are relevant semantically. This
would make them interpretable; it is not clear how they trigger
From phrase structure to Minimalist features 21
XP-movement, however. Chomsky (2011) pursues an approach that
has to do with projection requirements, to which we return in
Chapter 4, when we look at the EPP in more detail.
This section has provided a sketch of a current Minimalist deriva-
tion: starting a derivation at the bottom of a tree and going up,
emphasizing features, and being pretty bare in structure. I will now
contrast this with a different approach.
1 . 3 M E RG E A N D CA R T O G RA P H Y : F EA T U R ES A N D
C A T EG O R I E S
Within Minimalism, it is common to recognize three layers; see e.g.
Chomsky (2000: 102). The idea for the three layers is an old one and is
known from the Germanic literature on Vorfeld, Mittelfeld, and Nachfeld
(see e.g. Drach 1937; Bech 1955). Since the mid 1990s, there is, how-
ever, a lot of work that splits up each layer, and, in this section, I will
argue that this representational approach does not seem compat-
ible with the approach sketched so far, namely the derivational
bottom-up approach.
The work that splits up each layer more uses functional hierarchies
such as (34ab) and (35b). I have added (35a) to account for the auxil-
iaries, for instance, in English, where the features will become more
precise later on.
(34) CP-Layer
a. . . . Force . . . Topic . . . Focus . . . Fin TP
[ind] (DP) (who) [tense]
b. Mood speech act Mood evaluative Mood evidential Mod epistemic
frankly fortunately allegedly probably
((a) is from Rizzi 1997: 288 and (b) from Cinque 1999: 107)
(35) TP-Layer
a. T M ASP
[T] [M] [ASP]
did may have
b. Tpast Tfut Moodir Modnec Modpos ASPhab ASPrep ASPfreq
once then perhaps necessarily possibly usually again often
((b) is from Cinque 1999: 107)
This approach of assigning each category a precise position is known
as Cartography, and a typical (partial) tree is provided in (36).
22 I N T R O D U C T I O N
(36) ForceP
Force’
Force FocusP
what Focus’
Focus FinP
will
Fin’
Fin TP
she T’
Tfut ModPossP
possibly ...
vP
eat what
what
These hierarchies are representations of the functional structure of
the clause that are cross-linguistically valid. However, in e.g. Cinque
(1999), there is no mention of how a structure is arrived at, and, with
such a wealth of functional categories, a purely derivational approach
is hard to imagine. A projection from bottom to top would have to
encode through the scope of features which functional category is
merged first and which later.
In current Generative Grammar, Cartography is used side-by-side
with the derivational, bare phrase structure approach. These two
approaches, simple Merge and Cartography, towards clausal architec-
ture are in principle incompatible. Minimalism using Merge comes up
with as little structure and labeling as possible; the Cartographic
approaches use “hundreds” of categories, as we’ll see. Bare phrase
structure abandons the distinction between specifiers and heads of
Merge and Cartography: features and categories 23
X-bar theory, whereas the Cartographic (36) relies on such projections.
Adriana Belletti and Luigi Rizzi in a 2002 interview ask Chomsky how
the Cartographic endeavor can “relate . . . to the topics and goals
pursued by the minimalist program?” Chomsky replies by dodging
this question (to my mind) and says that the Cartographic approach
has “led to fascinating results.” He lists a few empirical facts about the
layers in the clause and suggests that:
[t]his kind of work leads us to inquire more closely into the nature of
interface relations . . . And beyond that it leads us to investigate the
“external” systems themselves, and the conditions they impose on a
well-designed language faculty. (Chomsky 2002: 123)
Mostly, Chomsky ignores the layers:
Ignored as well are the “peripheral” systems outside TP; I will use C
and T as surrogates for richer systems. On these matters see Rizzi
1997, Cinque 1999, and many other studies on the CFC [Core
Functional Categories] systems and others. (Chomsky 2000: 143, fn 31)
As Shonksky (2010: 426) puts it, “[t]he tension between Minimalism’s
impoverished structures and the richness of Cartographic representa-
tions is a real one.” Cinque and Rizzi themselves agree there is a
tension, but they suggest that the tension indicates a difference in
focus. In their own words:
There is, at first sight, an inherent tension between the complexity of
the Cartographic representations and the simplicity of the generative
devices that minimalist syntax assumes, somehow reflected in the
structural poverty of the representations typically found in the
minimalist literature. We believe that there is no contradiction
between these two directions of research, and the tension, where real,
is the sign of a fruitful division of labor. Minimalism focuses on the
elementary mechanisms which are involved in syntactic
computations, and claims that they can be reduced to extremely
simple combinatorial operations, ultimately external and internal
Merge, completed by some kind of search operation (Chomsky’s
Agree) to identify the candidates of Merge. An impoverished
computational mechanism does not imply the generation of an
impoverished structure: a very simple recursive operation can give
rise to a very rich and complex structure, as a function of the
inventory of elements it operates on, and, first and foremost, of its
very recursive nature. The very simplified structural representations
often assumed in the minimalist literature, expressed by the C-T-v-V
system, are sometimes taken literally, as substantive hypotheses on
the nature of clausal configurations, but the structure of the
arguments rarely implies a literal interpretation, and often is
24 I N T R O D U C T I O N
compatible with an interpretation of C-T-v-V as a shorthand for more
complex Cartographic structures (a fact explicitly acknowledged, e.g.,
in Chomsky 2001, fn. 8), with C, T, and v taken as “abbreviations”
standing for complex zones of the functional structure. (Cinque and
Rizzi 2008: 49)
Cinque and Rizzi also discuss the question of the number of functional
categories. There are thirty-two in Cinque (1999: 130) and around forty
in Kayne (2005). Cinque and Rizzi, using Heine and Kuteva’s 2002
work on grammaticalization, come up with 400 features that are
targets in Heine and Kuteva. Cinque and Rizzi don’t list these targets,
the first twenty of which are provided in Table 1.1.
Benincà and Munaro (2010: 6–7) note in this connection that syntax
has reached the detail of phonological features. These formal and
semantic features would have to be innate. If we delegate language
variation to the lexicon, the child needs help in acquiring this lexicon.
Chomsky (1965: 142) already writes that “semantic features . . . are
presumably drawn from a universal ‘alphabet’ but little is known
about this today and nothing has been said about it here.” Later on,
he says that vocabulary acquisition shows poverty of the stimulus
(Chomsky 1993: 24), i.e. it is impossible to acquire the rich vocabulary
without some help from Universal Grammar. I’ll come back to this in
Section 1.5.
So, Minimalism focuses on the derivation and Cartography on the
overall structure of this derivation. This debate between derivation
and representation is of course not new. For instance, Koster (1978;
1986; 2007) advocates a representational model without movement
operations, but one where dependencies are indicated. The crucial
argument for movement being superfluous, i.e. in favor of the repre-
sentational approach, has been that constraints on movement oper-
ations (e.g. locality) are very similar to what we need, for instance, for
reflexive binding (Koster 1986: 4). In Koster’s model, the most impor-
tant “notion of the theory of grammar is the dependency relation”
(1986: 8), where two elements share a property. These relations are
Table 1.1 Possible features and functional categories, based on Heine and
Kuteva (2002: 317)
permissive, possibility, agent, comparative, material, partitive, past/near,
A-possessive, since (temporal), superlative, complementizer, dative,
infinitive, Patient, purpose, temporal, until (temporal), only, NP-and,
subordinator
Merge and Cartography: features and categories 25
then subject to locality constraints. The relationship between a DP and
its trace (or copy) can be one of these dependency relations, as is
binding theory.
Key to much of Koster’s thinking has been the Structure Preserving
Hypothesis, which “entails that for each output of movement rules,
the same output is available on the basis of phrase structure rules
only; hence the complete redundancy of movement rules” (Koster
2007: 5). Chomsky (2011), without referring to Koster, handles this
problem by getting rid of the last vestiges of X-bar theory, namely the
labeling mechanism.
Having sketched two major approaches to a derivation in current
generative syntax, I now turn to a few more issues that provide some
background for the remainder of this book, namely word order and
phases.
1 . 4 T H E L I N E A R C O RR E S P O N D E N C E
AX IO M A N D P H A S E S
In this section, I discuss two further refinements of the Minimalist
Program, namely the issue of linear as opposed to hierarchical order,
important since about 1994, and the question of phases, in the picture
since 2001. Note that we’ll talk about SVO but, for convenience, use
S(ubject) as thematic/semantic as well as grammatical role, and the
same with O(bject).
1.4.1 Linear or hierarchical order nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
As mentioned, X-bar theory makes it possible to see that the position
of the X head is variable cross-linguistically. If an XP is headed (by a
head), it makes sense that some heads are initial and others final in
that phrase. If syntax is a system that relates sound and meaning, it is
only the externalized part of language (the sounds) that puts words in
a particular order. The semantic side of a derivation may not care
about linear order at all; it is the hierarchical structure that counts
(see especially Chomsky 2011). Kayne’s Linear Correspondence Axiom
makes a mapping from hierarchical to linear order possible.
With regard to parameters and Universal Grammar in general,
Chomsky (2004; 2007) tries to limit their role and to ascribe as much
as possible to the non-linguistic principles. This skepticism as to
parameters holds for the headedness parameter as well. Chomsky
(2008: 7) says, “I think that there is by now substantial evidence that
26 I N T R O D U C T I O N
ordering is restricted to externalization of internal computation to the
sensorimotor system, and plays no role in core syntax and semantics.”
Kayne (1994) argues that linear order is read off the hierarchical
structure. If an element a c-commands b but not vice versa, this is an
asymmetric c-command relation, and a has to precede b at spell-out, as
(37) shows.
(37) C-command
a
b
c d
Linearization or spell-out: abc
Note that, in a bare phrase structure model, one of the lower elements
must be moved, since cd in (37) cannot be linearized when they c-
command each other. I have indicated that as a crossed-out d, but
haven’t shown where d moves to. (Other solutions involve self-
merge3
of d, which creates more structure above d so that c c-
commands d but not the other way around.)
The structure in (37) works well with heads. What if a contains a
phrase, as in (38), where I have equated b with T and a phrase appears
in the Spec TP? The elements k and l are asymmetrically c-commanded
by b, so a subject DP could never be spelled out before a T, and this is
not empirically correct, at least in English!
(38) TP
T’
a
b = T
k l c d
Based on May (1985), Kayne (1994: 15–16) therefore develops the
notion of a segment and argues that T’ is a segment that cannot
enter into a c-command relationship. Once that is assumed, the prob-
lem of T having to precede k and l disappears. The model does lose its
elegance, and the problem of the specifier hasn’t been adequately
resolved up to now (see Uriagereka 2011 for an alternative).
The linearization principle in (37) is known as the Linear
Correspondence Axiom (LCA), or Universal Base Hypothesis, and has
3
For more on self-Merge, see Guimarães (2000).
The Linear Correspondence Axiom and phases 27
been used in a number of ways. The way this is usually understood is
that word order is just relevant to the spell-out (at the S-M interface),
but that c-command is the basic notion (at the C-I interface).
As to word order, the LCA predicts that languages branch either to
the right or to the left, as in (39a–b). That way the c-command
relations can be translated directly into linear order. For instance, in
(39a), a asymmetrically commands b and therefore linearizes as ab,
and b asymmetrically commands c and therefore linearizes as bc; in
(39b), d asymmetrically commands c and therefore linearizes as dc, and
c asymmetrically commands b and therefore linearizes as cb.
(39)
a. b.
a d
b
d a
c
c b
Linearization: abc dcb
Because subjects are more frequent in initial position, Kayne (1994)
chooses (39a). Kayne (2010) gives more empirical evidence for (39a). He
also raises the question as to why it would be that way and finds the
reason in the directionality of the probe-goal relationship.
Let’s assume Merge ends up with a basic order of SVO in the VP, as in
(40a), and that certain features (EPP) are responsible for the differ-
ences in word order that we encounter in (40b–f).
(40) a. SVO: basic (but probably XP movement of S)
b. S[O]V: XP movement of O
c. [V]SO: head movement of V
d. [VO]S: XP movement of the VP
e. [O]SV: XP movement of O
f. [O][VO
_]S: XP movement of VP followed by XP movement of O
How do we get all the different word orders? I assume there is both
head movement of V to v and further up, as well as phrase (or XP)
movement to XP positions4
. Thus, SOV in (40b) and OSV in (40e) derive
4
It has been claimed, e.g. in Chomsky (1995), that head movement does not occur
in the Narrow Syntax and is only relevant at the level of spell-out. See Roberts
(2010) for arguments that head movement has semantic consequences and there-
fore takes place in the Narrow Syntax. We will discuss reasons for head move-
ment in Chapter 4.
28 I N T R O D U C T I O N
through movement of the object to a position more to the left; VS in
(40c) through movement of V; and VOS in (40d) through movement of
the entire VP to a position before S.
I’ll give the full derivation of the more complex OVS (40f) in (41),
although I leave out the Topic head for simplicity. First, V and the
Object (i.e. Theme) are merged, after which a little v and the Subject
(i.e. Agent) Merge. The VP is then (internally) merged to the vP, or
possibly the TP, after which the object is fronted, resulting in OVS.
(41) TopicP
Object TP
VP T’
V Object T vP
Subject v’
v VP
V Object
Note that many other possibilities exist; some people avoid head
movement in favor of phrasal movement, as in (41). See Chomsky
(1995: 367) for the claim that verb movement occurs at PF, and that
is certainly a possibility. If only XPs are internally merged, the VS in
(40c) could be derived first through object movement out of VP and
then movement of the rather empty VP. The latter movement is called
remnant movement.
1.4.2 Phases nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
The notion of phase, having been introduced in 1998 (but published
as Chomsky 2000), becomes prominent in Chomsky (2001). It is a way
to reduce the computational burden. Once Select takes lexical items
(feature bundles) out of the lexicon, Merge chooses two and puts these
together. Phases are a way to make complex derivations manageable.
There are two phases in a clause: the CP and the vP. The TP is not a
phase and inherits its tense features from the C. Once a vP is finished,
The Linear Correspondence Axiom and phases 29
it will no longer stay active in the computation and be handed over, or
transferred, to the interface systems.
Apart from determining when a string will be handed over to SEM or
PHON, phases are important for Internal Merge and Agree. Internal
Merge of the phase head (C and v) and its specifier with a higher
position is possible, but material inside the VP or TP is not accessible
to the probes outside the relevant vP and CP respectively. In (42), it is
not possible for the wh-element to move to the specifier of the CP in
one move; it will have to adjoin to vP first. The reason is that C cannot
probe directly into VP. (I ignore the split CP and features here.)
(42) CP
C
C TP
She T’
T vP
She v’
v VP
what V’
V AP
ate up
This restriction is known as the Phase Impenetrability Condition, and
its effects are very similar to cycles in earlier work and of course to
Principles such as Subjacency, which restricts movement across more
than one CP or TP.
(43) Phase Impenetrability Condition
The domain of H is not accessible to operations outside HP; only H
and its edge are accessible to such operations. (Chomsky 2001: 13)
30 I N T R O D U C T I O N
Phases (CP and vP) constitute two of the three clausal layers, and the
third layer (TP) is recognized as a weak phase. I will not emphasize
phases in this book because the main emphasis is on the structure,
and not so much on the exact movement restrictions. I will be dividing
the clause into three layers: the highest/outer CP-Layer, where prag-
matic information is provided; the middle TP-Layer, where grammat-
ical agreement is marked; and the inner vP/VP-Layer that provides
mainly lexical and thematic information. The outer layer is responsi-
ble for encoding discourse information and linking one clause to
another; the inner layer is involved in the marking of tense and agree-
ment through morphology or auxiliaries; and the lowest layer deter-
mines the thematic roles. Each layer can be expanded: when the
sentence is negative, a Neg(ative)P is added. This division into three
layers is descriptive but also necessary in approaches that use phases
as well as Cartographies.
1 . 5 F EA T U R E P A R A M ET ER S
In this section, we return to the parameters. We discuss the problem
how, if parameters are only relevant for the lexicon and are feature-
based, language learners can acquire these features. Because the term
universal is imprecise, I will only use it when talking about work in
typology that uses it or, as mentioned, as the adjective in Universal
Grammar.
In Minimalism, cross-linguistic variation in the clause only arises
from the lexicon: the feature inventory, so to speak, differs from
language to language. Chomsky does not hazard a guess as to the
number of features. We have seen that Kayne (2005) suggests about
40, and Cinque and Rizzi (2008), taking the Cartographic approach not
to differ in this respect from Minimalism, suggest 400. If these fea-
tures are universally present, not all languages would be using 400
features, so there is room for parameters in that way. How would we
make this a little more structured so that the child would have some
guidance as to which features to pick? An even more important ques-
tion is how the child has access to the inventory of features. These
features would have to be based in cognition and presumably antedate
the appearance of language in humans. I’ll first introduce the idea of a
macroparameter, then adapt this to features, and then return to the
acquisition of features.
Let’s return therefore to the features we used in Section 1.3 and see
how these would fare in a cross-linguistic picture. What we see is that
Feature parameters 31
case and agreement are not necessarily connected. Baker (2008a)
argues this, and Table 1.2 shows the facts for different languages.
Agreement is the more basic phenomenon in language, more wide-
spread than case and quite different. Thus, Siewierska (2008) esti-
mates that 70 percent of languages have (subject) agreement, whereas
Siewierska and Bakker (2009: 299) say that “case marking of argu-
ments is overall considerably less common cross-linguistically than
agreement marking.” In this context, it may help to introduce the
distinction between head and dependent marking languages. Head
marking languages indicate the relationship between elements on the
head of a phrase (e.g. on the verb), whereas dependent marking lan-
guages do so on the dependent (e.g. the DP). It is possible to formulate
a macroparametric hierarchy in terms of head marking and depend-
ent marking and see some differences between languages as different
feature choices. We call these macroparameters, following Baker
(2001), who in turn follows Edward Sapir in arguing a language has a
basic character. If a language is polysynthetic, this will determine
many other characteristics. An attempt is made in Figure 1.5.
This means that languages could be head-marking, dependent-
marking, both, or neither, and that is what we find in Table 1.2. The
model in Figure 1.5 goes against the current thinking that both phi-
and case features are relevant for all languages. Other attempts to
parametrize features are found in Biberauer and Richards (2006),
Richards (2008), and Roberts and Holmberg (2010).
I’ll now come back to the acquisition of semantic and grammatical
features. With phonetic features, we know that children babble
sounds they haven’t heard but that are somehow dictated by internal
mechanisms. This may be the case for features and functional catego-
ries as well, though “Syntactic Feature Babble” has never been
observed. A child needs to have lexical input for grammatical catego-
ries to appear but also needs some sense as to what to look for.
Chomsky (1995: 230, 381) suggests that “formal features have seman-
tic correlates and reflect semantic properties (accusative Case and
Table 1.2 Languages with and without case and agreement
Agreement No agreement
case Yaqui, Amis, Urdu, Basque Japanese, Korean, Khoekhoe
no case Navajo, Zulu, Lakhota, Ainu Sango, Haida, (French), Thai,
Haitian Creole
32 I N T R O D U C T I O N
transitivity, for example).” I interpret this to mean that, if a language
has nouns with semantic phi-features, the learner will be able to
hypothesize uninterpretable features on another F (and will be able
to bundle them there). Initially, a child would use lexical categories (as
well as demonstrative pronouns) with interpretable features (see
Radford 2000) which then would be experimented with as uninter-
pretable features. A third factor principle, such as (44), seems to be at
work, with (44b) adapted from Muysken (2008: 46).
(44) Feature economy
(a) Utilize semantic features: use them as for functional categories, i.e. as
formal features.
(b) If a specific feature appears more than once, one of these is interpretable
and the others are uninterpretable.
If a child uses semantic features such as [animate], [future], [abstract]
to learn words and concepts – and this acquisition is very fast – the
(ancient) question arises where our knowledge of these features
comes from. I am assuming with Chomsky (1965: 142) that “semantic
features . . . are presumably drawn from a universal ‘alphabet’”
(although, as mentioned above, Chomsky continues that “little is
known about this today and nothing has been said about it here”).
Thus, innate concepts such as time, cause, agent, etc., together with
the data available to the child (modality or past tense), trigger the
phi-features (for head marking) “case” (for dependent marking)
yes no yes no
Korean5 Korean Navajo
u-F i-F (English)
Navajo
phi with T no cluster
English Zulu
Figure 1.5 Feature macroparameters6
5
Baker (2008a: 39, 153) argues that T is not a probe in, for instance, Japanese, which
is similar to not having probing phi-features. In these languages, I assume that
independent subjects may be absent too, with radical pro-drop as the result.
6
What isn’t captured in Figure 1.6 is that [i-F] is often linked to [no-Case].
Feature parameters 33
grammaticalization of the semantic features into interpretable and
uninterpretable ones.
In Chomsky (1993: 24), there is the very cryptic statement that
vocabulary acquisition shows poverty of the stimulus. That means
Universal Grammar has to give some concepts and structure. When
a child looks at the world, it knows how to categorize things; it is
not just abstracting from its environment. This is clear with logical
concepts, as the philosopher Geach (1957: 22–23) writes: “[a]bstrac-
tionists rarely attempt an abstractionist account of logical concepts,
like those of some, or, and not” . . . “In the sensible world you will
find no specimens of alternativeness and negativeness from which
you could form by abstraction the concept of or or of not.” In a
figure, learned and innate categories can be represented as in
Figure 1.6.
The ability to categorize is not unique to humans. Certain animals
are excellent at categorization, e.g. prairie dogs have sounds for spe-
cific colors, shapes, and sizes (Slobodchikoff 2010). Jackendoff (2002:
238–240), based on Bickerton (1990), suggests that pre-linguistic pri-
mate conceptual structure may already use symbols for basic semantic
relations. This may include spatial and causal concepts: “Agent First,
Focus Last . . . are ‘fossil principles’ from protolanguage.” Homo erec-
tus (1 million BP) may have had protolanguage. Even though the
question of the acquisition of semantic features, words, and concepts
is fascinating, I will now look at the acquisition of functional catego-
ries a little more.
In approaches such as those represented in Figure 1.5, the choices
are not as deep and are feature-based. This means that the child may
get hints to pay attention to certain features. For instance, if modals
are in the input, a child might postulate an MP and will then need to
innate vs. acquired
shapes grammatical gender
negatives grammatical number
“if” tense
modals progressive
mass−count
duration
Figure 1.6 Innate vs. acquired features
34 I N T R O D U C T I O N
decide on the types of features connected to it, e.g. deontic or
epistemic, and interpretable or not. The parametric differences
expressed in Figure 1.5 are also in accordance with the view that
parameters are only relevant to lexical and grammatical items, the
approach used in this book. We’ll look at some data from
acquisition.
I will argue below that there exists a mechanism for the acquisition
of formal/syntactic features where the child abstracts away from the
semantic features, as suggested by the Feature Economy Principle in
(44). An instance of this is given using data from the CHILDES-Kuczaj
corpus (Kuczaj 1976) of a child by the name of Abe, who abstracts away
from a preposition to a complementizer. Abe initially uses like as a
lexical category only, as in (45) to (47), which he uttered when he was 3
years and 7 months (and 5 days) old.
(45) like a cookie (Abe, 3.7.5)
(46) no the monster crashed the planes down like this like that (Abe, 3.7.5)
(47) I wan(t) (t)a show you something # I mean like this thin ? (Abe, 3.7.5)
He starts to use like as a complementizer, as in (48a–b), when he is a
year older. The earlier (49) is in between the preposition and comple-
mentizer because having a pet is a nominalization.
(48) a. watch it walks like a person walks. (Abe, 4.9.19)
b. Daddy # do you teach like you do [//] like how they do in your
school? (Abe, 4.10.1)
(49) I feel like having a pet do you? (Abe, 4.8.20)
The use of like in (48a–b) is all the more interesting in that the care-
givers in the transcript only use like as a C after sound or look, as in (50).
Although the child may have heard the use of like as a C in another
context, it is more likely to be a spontaneous invention by the child
guided by principle (44).
(50) Abe’s father: it looks like some birds have eaten some of the bread.
(Kuczaj file 206)
The situation with for is similar to that of like, although for is used by
the caregivers both as complementizer and preposition. Initially, the
preposition is used by Abe to express benefactor semantic role, as in
(51) and (52). Later, this meaning is extended to time, as in (53), and
more abstract use in (54) and (55).
Feature parameters 35
(51) Mom # this white one for me? (Abe 2.7.18)
(52) this picture is mine for myself (Abe 2.7.18)
(53) how long you grow up for a minute (Abe 2.9.27)
(54) Mom # I’m glad you are making a rug for out in the hall. (Abe 2.8.14)
(55) this uh be a cave for [/] for # what you say? a Thanksgiving one this uh be a
cave. (Abe 2.11.6)
The first target-like C is in (56). Another month and a half later, Abe
produces his second one (at least on the transcripts we have), namely
(57), and three months later the third one (58). The first two can be
seen as “waiting for,” i.e. a prepositional use, but the third one has to
be a complementizer.
(56) yeah and I said I was waiting and waiting for you to come and I [/] (Abe, 3.2.1)
(57) this crocodile was standing around waiting for someone to drop around and
what did he see when he saw it? (Abe, 3.3.18)
(58) yeah maybe it’s time for it to rain we’ll have a storm. (Abe, 3.6.26)
All languages make use of person and number features of some kind,
so phi-features would be universally present, extracted from the
semantic features of lexical items. Case marking is more varied across
languages. Whether these features are interpretable or not is a para-
metric setting that a child has to decide upon.
1 . 6 C O N C L U S I O N
In this chapter, an introduction has been given to generative syntax. It
provides a short history of shifts in what is included in Universal
Grammar, what principles and parameters look like, and how phrase
structure and movement rules are regarded and formulated, and the
tension between Minimalism and Cartography. It introduces the three
layers and discusses the status of features.
Keywords
Universal Grammar, Principles and Parameters, descriptive and
explanatory adequacy, macroparameter, Minimalist Program,
Cartography, phrase structure rules, bare phrase structure, transfor-
mations, semantic features, interpretable and uninterpretable fea-
tures, AGREE, (internal/external) Merge, S-M–C-I, linearization, phase
36 I N T R O D U C T I O N
D I S C U S S I O N P O I N T S
1. a. Discuss the difference between first and third factor that we have
seen in Section 1.3. Is Merge a Universal Grammar Principle or a
third factor principle?
b. Chomsky (2011: 7–8) rearranges the three factors. Do you see a
shift, or is he saying the same as was quoted in Section 1.3 above?
We can distinguish three factors in this process: (I) external data; (II)
genetic endowment, which determines the general character of
growth and development, and in the cognitive domains converts
external data to experience; (III) organism-independent factors,
including principles of natural law, which play a crucial role in
development as in evolution: e.g., the laws of physics that determine
that cells divide into spheres rather than cubes, and for computational
systems like language, principles of computational efficiency that
may well be reducible to laws of nature. For language, we can
distinguish three components of the second factor: (a) language-
specific endowment, Universal Grammar; (b) other cognitive
processes; (c) conditions imposed on language by the structure of the
brain, though too little is known to draw far-reaching conclusions,
despite interesting recent progress in neurolinguistics.
2. If you remember traces from earlier frameworks, explain how e.g.
the tree in (30) for Martians saw it would look with traces. The reason
traces were abandoned was the Inclusiveness Condition: Once you
select material from the lexicon and start a derivation, new mate-
rial cannot be added.
3. Draw a tree for (1) using interpretable and uninterpretable features
and bare phrase structure.
(1)Unicorns eat peanuts.
4. Think about the role of interpretable features and explain why in
English (2) might still be understandable.
(2)Me sees she.
5. How would you draw the trees for the VS in (40c) above? Use either
the head movement or the remnant movement derivation.
6. The World Atlas of Linguistic Structures (http://wals.info/feature/81A)
has the following data on the relative frequency of the six word
Table 1.3 Frequency of word orders (Dryer 1992)
SOV (565 languages) SVO (488 languages)
VSO (95 languages) VOS (25 languages)
OVS (11 languages) OSV (4 languages)
No dominant order (189 languages) Total: 1,377
Discussion points 37
orders we have seen in (40). Does this distribution surprise you,
considering our discussion of the derivation of various word
orders?
7. We will use two kinds of glosses for other languages: a morpheme-
by-morpheme gloss, using abbreviated symbols, and a freer trans-
lation, enclosed in single quotation marks. Both are not always
provided if the meaning is clear. The glosses list morphological
features such as accusative (ACC) in cases where relevant for our
discussion. Hyphens are used when we can clearly see the mor-
phemes; periods if they are fused. Explain in words what the glosses
in (2) mean.
(2) mẽ kahaanii likh-tii hũ Urdu/Hindi
1S.NOM(F) story.F write-PR.1SF be.PR.1S
‘I am writing a story.’
(Much stricter glosses are suggested at
www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/resources/glossing-rules.php)
S U G G E S T I O N S F O R F U R T H E R RE A D I N G
For more on Universal Grammar and parameters, read Chomsky (1965
chapter 1) and Newmeyer (2005). Boeckx (2008) provides a great
introduction on bare phrase structure.
If you are interested in interfaces, Reinhart (2008) examines several areas
of the interface, e.g. quantifier scope and focus. She wonders what
makes the computational system legible to the other systems at the
interface.
Muysken (2008: 6) finds “the generative literature on functional categories
rather vague,” and provides additional information on functional
categories and features.
Markman (1994) argues that constraints on word learning are not specific
to language, and B. Landau (1994) shows that children have a shape
bias that helps them acquire words.
For an alternative on feature checking, see Stroik (2009 chapter 1), and see
Fong (2005) on Minimalist parsing.
38 I N T R O D U C T I O N
2 The clause: a description
In this chapter, we’ll discuss the clause in a broad sense. Main clauses
can function independently, and we’ll examine what makes them
independent. In many languages, this independence is the result of
an independent tense. Other factors include a specially marked sub-
ject, an overt indication of the mood of the clause, and a complete
expression of all the arguments of the verb.
The outline is as follows. In Section 2.1, we examine the basic,
minimal components of the simple clause, focusing on English. In
Section 2.2, we review semantic, grammatical, and pragmatic
functions and roles. Grammatical roles are important for deciding
if a clause is embedded or not. In Section 2.3, we explore some of
the variety found in English clauses that have more than one
lexical verb, i.e. where one is embedded in the other. In Section 2.4,
we look at the three layers of the clause and, in Section 2.5, a brief
overview of clauses in other languages is provided. Section 2.6 is a
conclusion.
2 . 1 T H E M A I N C L A U S E
In this section, some characteristics of main clauses are discussed.
Main clauses in English have a certain mood, and they need to contain
a tensed verb and a subject that agrees with the verb. This set of
characteristics anchors an event in place and time and to a speech
event, and is known as finiteness. We’ll also put this together in a
tree using the familiar CP and TP.
2.1.1 Mood nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Mood signals the speaker’s “take” on the content expressed in the
sentence. It shows if the speaker is sure or unsure of what s/he is
saying and how the speaker obtained the information. Bybee
39
(1985: 170) defines mood as having force or as indicating a commit-
ment to the truth, as (1) shows. She follows a traditional distinction
where the unmarked mood is the indicative and is hence not listed.
(1) Mood
Illocutionary force: imperative, optative, admonitive (warning), prohibitive,
interrogative
Commitment to truth of assertion: subjunctive, dubitative, probable,
potential, conditional
Main clauses across the languages of the world indicate indicative,
interrogative, and imperative moods. These moods represent dif-
ferent pragmatic functions: statements, questions, and commands
respectively. Examples of some moods in English are given in (2) to (4).
(2) I saw her in the garden. indicative mood
(3) Where did I see her? interrogative mood
(4) Meet her in the garden! imperative mood
Many moods have a special syntax that goes with that particular mood:
In (2), there is the unmarked Subject Verb word order; in (3), a wh-word
is fronted and an auxiliary is moved; and, in (4), the subject is left out.
Other moods are possible, e.g. exclamative, indicating surprise, as
in (5ab), and optative/subjunctive, indicating a wish, as in (6).
(5) a. How interesting those buildings look! exclamative mood
b. What a nice book this is!
(6) May she live long! optative/subjunctive mood
Syntactically, these are marked by the fronting of how and the adjec-
tive in (5a), of what and the DP in (5b), and by an initial modal in (6).
2.1.2 Finiteness: tense, agreement, and case nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In English, a simple main clause contains at least one lexical, finite
verb and a grammatical subject, e.g. went and she respectively in (7a).
Auxiliary verbs, has and been in (7b), can be added.
(7) a. She went.
b. She has been gone (a long time).
In a main clause, as in (7a–b), there is one finite verb (went and has) and
one lexical verb (went and gone).
Sentence (8) shows an unfinished “fragment,” with a non-finite verb
and no subject. This fragment can be used as part of another sentence,
or as an answer to a question, but not on its own.
40 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
(8) To go there.
Finite verbs in (standard) English agree with the subject of the clause,
which happens to be visible only in the third person singular present
tense on most verbs. The verb to be is an exception, of course. Finite
verbs are also marked for present or past. Their subjects have nomi-
native case, which can only be seen in Modern English when the
subject is a pronoun, i.e. the subject pronoun of finite verbs must be
nominative I, you, he, she, it, we and they, not accusative me, him, her, us,
or them (you and it are both nominative and accusative), as in the
ungrammatical (9).
(9) *Me have been going there frequently.
Note that, in some varieties of English, sentences without a nomina-
tive subject, such as (10), and without an agreeing verb, as in (11), are
grammatical.
(10) Me gotta go. (Jamaican English)
(11) He like it, do he? (East Anglian English, Trudgill 1974)
In these varieties, case and agreement have been lost completely,
something that the English language has been doing over the last
1,000 years.
Two more points about English: Modal auxiliaries, as in (12), count
as finite even though they show no agreement or tense, and imper-
ative clauses, as in (13), count as having a hidden (nominative) subject
and are therefore finite as well.
(12) She may have gone.
(13) (You) Go there!
Finiteness is scalar, according to Givón’s scale reproduced as
Figure 2.1, and some clause types show more finite characteristics,
e.g. the indicatives in (2) and (7), and some fewer, e.g. the subjunctive
in (6) and the modal in (12). Indicatives are therefore more often
independent clauses; subjunctives may be; but participials, infini-
tives, and nominalizations are never independent.
Most finite Least finite
indicative subjunctive/modal participial infinitive nominalized
Figure 2.1 Degrees of finiteness (from Givón 1990: 854)
The main clause 41
English uses all of these possibilities in its independent and depend-
ent clauses, but some languages like to nominalize a subordinate
clause, e.g. Russian and Navajo. Let’s see where we mark finiteness
and mood in the tree.
2.1.3 CPs and TPs nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In this section, we add basic mood and tense features to the tree that
we’ve seen in Chapter 1. Chapters 4 and 5 will go into much more
depth.
The CP, as in (14), is the bearer of the mood of the sentence
(indicative, imperative, interrogative, subjunctive, or exclamative).
We can indicate mood by means of interpretable indicative features,
which also means that the clause is finite. I have marked this by
[i-ind] and [u-T] on C. The latter means we need a T with valued tense
features, i.e. one that can check with an element that is [i-past] or
[i-pres], or, in the case of modals, [i-fut]. Having an indicative C thus
ensures a finite TP with agreement and tense on the verb and nom-
inative to the subject. The T position acquires the valued tense
position by probing down the tree. I will add agreement and case in
later trees, and a full set of auxiliaries in Chapter 4. For simplicity, I
leave that out here.
(14) CP
C’
C
[i-ind]
TP
[u-T] She T'
T ASPP
[u-T: pres]
ASP'
ASP VP
has
[i-pres] read many books
In the case of a main clause, as in (14), [i-ind] appears on C, but, when
the clause is embedded, C has [u-mood], as we’ll see.
42 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
Because main clauses indicate mood, assumed to be in CP, every
main clause includes a CP, even in English, where there isn’t that
much evidence for it. In languages with second-position effects
(e.g. the Germanic languages other than English), there is more
evidence.
Having defined an English independent clause as finite and as hav-
ing mood, we’ll turn next to grammatical functions and semantic
roles of elements in the clause. Having a particular grammatical func-
tion in another clause is what distinguishes the embedded, i.e.
dependent, clause from the main clause.
2 . 2 F U N C T I O N S A N D RO L E S
Phrases (DPs, PPs, etc.) play a grammatical function in a clause and
bear a semantic role. They may also play a pragmatic role, such as
topic or focus, to be ignored in this section. Each of the roles/functions
is indicated in a different layer and in fact provides some rationale for
the three layers. Keeping the semantic and grammatical roles separate
is tricky but essential, and we discuss ways to do that here.
Semantic roles include Agent, Instrument, Theme, and Goal. In
Chapter 3, we come back to semantic roles in great detail.
Grammatical functions include: subject; direct, indirect or phrasal
object; subject or object predicate; adverbials; and modifiers. In this
section, I mainly focus on grammatical functions, to help you see the
structure of the clause. Some functions are obligatorily expressed, and
others are optional. The word order of certain functions in English is
also much stricter than that of other languages.
2.2.1 Roles and functions nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
One frequent answer to the question “What is the subject in a sen-
tence?” is that it is the actor or doer of the action. This is correct in
some sentences, but not in all, as the variety of semantic roles that can
function as subjects in (15) shows.
(15) a. They ate waffles.
Subject = Agent
b. The book sells well.
Subject = Theme
c. Many books on this subject have been written.
Subject = Theme (passivized)
d. It rained.
Subject has no semantic role; it is an expletive
Functions and roles 43
Verbs seem to determine the semantic roles the noun phrases play
(again more in Chapter 3), but morphology and position in the sentence
determine the grammatical function. Thus, a verb like eat has an entity
that eats (the Agent) and something that is eaten (the Theme or Patient).
In an indicative, finite sentence, all the roles that a verb has are
expressed and play grammatical functions such as subject and object.
English subjects agree with the finite verb and have a nominative
case, and usually precede the verb; objects follow the lexical verb and
can be passivized. In Table 2.1, some examples of functions other than
subjects are provided. This is the list of the (traditional) obligatory
functions, also known as arguments; adverbials are optional and
are not added in this table.
As mentioned, two major differences distinguish arguments (sub-
jects, objects, object predicates, and so on) from adverbials, namely
their obligatoriness and stricter word order. Let’s take a simple clause,
as in (16), and determine the grammatical functions of its parts.
(16) They fed the elephants with great enthusiasm for the entire evening.
In (16), there are two obligatory nominals, the subject they and the
object the elephants. Leaving them out results in (17), which is at best a
Table 2.1 Some grammatical functions in traditional grammar
Functions in addition
to subject
Example
verb
Example
sentence Verb name
– swim,
arrive
She arrived (early). intransitive
Direct object see, eat,
read,
love
She saw me. (mono)
transitive
Direct and indirect
object
give, tell I gave him flowers. ditransitive
Subject predicate be, become She is nice. copula
Direct object and
object predicate
consider,
know
I consider her nice. complex
transitive
Prepositional object refer,
glance
He glanced at the
book.
prepositional
Direct object/– switch on/
give in
She turned off the
light. He gave in.
phrasal
Prepositional object get down
to
He got down to
business.
phrasal
prepositional
44 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
fragment. Leaving the adverbials out, as in (18), leads to a less infor-
mative but complete sentence.
(17) Fed with great enthusiasm for the entire evening.
(18) They fed the elephants.
As for the stricter word order of arguments, subjects typically precede
the verb and can only be separated from their finite verbs by certain
adverbials, as in (19), but not by all adverbials, as (20) shows. Nominal
objects are difficult to separate from the verb by any adverbial, as (21)
shows.
(19) They often fed the elephants with great enthusiasm for the entire evening.
(20) *They in the evening fed the elephants with great enthusiasm.
(21) *They fed often/in the evening the elephants.
The position of adverbials is freer, although, as we’ll see, they too have
a preferred order. A note on terminology is in order. I will use “adver-
bial” when emphasizing the function of the PP but “adverb” when I
mean the category of words like often, soon, now, etc.
A third difference between objects and adverbials is that adverbials
can appear after do so, as in (22), but objects cannot, as in (23).
(22) We read books in the garden and she did so in the attic.
(23) *We read books in the garden and she did so journals in the attic.
An account for the latter two characteristics (the word order and do so-
replacement) is easy in a pre-bare phrase structure system. There one
can argue that the order is strict because the object has to be the sister
of the V, that the subject must be in the Spec of the TP, as in (24), and
that do so replaces the V’ but not the V. Adverbials are adjoined as
sisters to V’s and are therefore freer.
(24) TP
We Τ’ Non-Cartographic/non-bare tree
T VP
V′ PP
V
read
DP
books
Functions and roles 45
Currently, the distinction in grammatical function is harder to
make in a tree because V, V’, and VP are no longer distinguished in
bare phrase structure. The distinction between objects from adver-
bials underlies a lot of syntactic thinking. In Chapter 3, we’ll see that
the former have semantic roles connected to them and are recognized
at the C-I interface as different from adverbials.
2.2.2 Subordinate and coordinate clause functions nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Complex clauses include more than one lexical verb. Sentences that
are part of another sentence, i.e. that have a function in that sentence,
are often referred to as dependent or embedded clauses, where the
embedded clause is seen as subordinate to the other. There are also
coordinated clauses which involve at least two clauses (and two
lexical verbs) that are joined by and (or another coordinator), and
both coordinated clauses are of (almost) equal importance.
Frequently, one of the coordinate clauses is dependent on the other
clause, however, as we’ll see.
Examples of clausal functions are given in (25) to (30). In (25),
the embedded clause functions as direct object; in (26), it is a
subject; in (27), a subject predicate; and in (28), a phrasal object.
An adverbial and a relative clause modifying a noun are given in (29)
and (30).
(25) I noticed [that some recipes call for prahoc]. (embedded object)
(26) [That we saw a Kline] was nice. (embedded subject)
(27) The problem is [that too many homes were built]. (embedded subject predicate)
(28) I figured out [that it didn’t work]. (embedded phrasal object)
(29) He read books [because it was required]. (embedded adverbial)
(30) The books [that she reads] are forgotten books. (relative clause)
Other terms that you’ll see are complements and modifiers for
object and relative clauses respectively. Clauses do not function as
indirect objects, or as objects of prepositional objects, or as object
predicates.
The main defining characteristic of coordinated clauses is that they
have no function in another clause. They are on an equal footing, most
argue, with each other. This is clearly true in (31), but less so in (32).
(31) [The ocean is green] and [the moon is red].
(32) [The food arrived] and [they ate].
46 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
In (31), the two clauses are totally independent of each other, although
they have a coordinator and. Hearing this sentence, one wonders what
kind of connection the speaker wants to make, or if it is uttered as a
joke. In (32), the clauses are more closely connected, and the and here
really means “and then,” which renders the second clause almost
subordinate to the first. The two clauses also have the same subjects
and the same tense. However, if we consider [they ate] as a subordinate
clause, that clause would have to function as adverbial, and that is not
correct either.
Another indication of a difference between (31) and (32) is that, if we
reverse the order of the clauses, as in (33) and (34), we notice that (33)
is still strange, but not because of the reversal of the order. Sentence
(34), however, has a different meaning, since we assume that now they
ate before the food arrived.
(33) [The moon is red] and [the ocean is green].
(34) [They ate] and [the food arrived].
Coordinate clauses can be made into two independent clauses, as in
(35), and although that sounds very “choppy,” it is better than doing
the same with an embedded clause, as in (36).
(35) The food arrived. They ate.
(36) They noticed. He left.
Coordinated structures, especially the ones with a closer connection
between the clauses, often leave out the second subject if it is identical
to the first, as in (37). This is analyzed as ellipsis, i.e. deletion, of the
second subject. It is possible to repeat the subject, as in (38), but this is
done only if you want to emphasize the subject.
(37) [Dinosaurs arrived] and [ate arctic anchovies].
(38) [Dinosaurs arrived] and [dinosaurs ate arctic anchovies].
In (37), we can see that one clause is dependent on the other, since it
has lost its own subject. As an alternative to analyzing (37) as a case of
ellipsis of the subject, we could argue that it involves the coordination
of two VPs.
The different types of coordination in English are not so complex;
they are listed in Figure 2.2. According to this, sentences such as (33)
are the most independent of each other and sentences such as (37) the
least.
Functions and roles 47
In conclusion, grammatical functions such as subject and object are
different from semantic roles such as Themes and Agents.
Grammatical functions are relevant to defining finite clauses since
subjects are obligatory in English finite clauses. Grammatical function
is also relevant to distinguish subordinate from coordinate clauses:
Only subordinate clauses have a function inside another clause. In the
next section, we turn to those.
2 . 3 T H E T Y P E S O F S U B O R D I N A T E C L A U S E
If there are two lexical verbs, there are two clauses, one dependent
on the other and functioning as subject or object or adverbial in the
other sentence. Since a subordinate clause is dependent on another
clause, it can be less complex than an independent clause. Verbs
determine the mood and finiteness of their complements through
marking the C or T of these complements. We will therefore pay
special attention to these functional categories and show how the
clausal complements differ in complexity. Adverbial clauses are
much freer, but the C is crucial for them as well. Finally, we look at
clauses that modify and complement nouns.
2.3.1 C(omplementizers) nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Complementizers join two clauses where one clause is subordinate to
the other. Examples of complementizers are that, since, whether, if, and
because, as in (39).
(39) Kristen and Jan left [because Anna was about to arrive].
Many complementizers have one specific task. For instance, because in
(39) can only introduce an adverbial clause of reason, and after and
before only temporal adverbial clauses. This is thanks to their very
independent dependent
C: and and then
reversible
around and no
Subject different subject same subject
Tense different tense same tense
yes
Figure 2.2 The relative (in)dependence of coordinated clauses
48 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
specific semantic features. The complementizer that is more
general and is connected to finiteness in (40) and for to future and
irrealis, as in (41).
(40) That they laugh a lot shows that they are happy.
(41) I expected for them to do that.
Like prepositions, complementizers are invariable in English (i.e.
never have an ending), but complementizers introduce a new clause,
whereas prepositions are connected to a noun. Some examples of
complementizers are provided in Table 2.2. Chapter 5 will come
back to the features of some of these.
When prepositions, such as before or after in (42), introduce a clause,
they are then complementizers rather than prepositions.
(42) He left [after she arrived].
In the case of complementizers such as when, where, why, and how, we
could argue they are adverbials moving to the specifier of the CP, so
technically not Cs. Some of these are in the process of being reana-
lyzed as Cs, as in (43), where how is an embedded C.
(43) Dwyer told the players how he wanted to win.
‘D. told the players that he wanted to win.’
(from the BNC as given by Willis 2007: 434)
In short, complementizers help decide the function of the clause
and, in the case of for, if, and that, are selected by the higher verb.
That is the most frequent and typical for introducing objects, as we’ll
see next.
2.3.2 The object clause nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Sentences (25) to (30) show that clauses can function in many ways.
The most frequent of these are the object, as in (44), and adverbial, as
in (42).
(44) [I should have noticed [that Zelda doesn’t like Zoltan]].
Table 2.2 A few English complementizers
after, (al)though, as, because, before, for, how, if, in case (that), in order that,
in that, lest, like, now that, once, provided (that), so (that), (rather) than,
that, till, unless, until, when, whenever, where(as/ever), whether, while,
why, yet
The types of subordinate clause 49
Auxiliaries, such as should, have, and does in (44) are not relevant for
determining the number of clauses or sentences; only lexical verbs
are. The verb notice has a full CP complement with the complemen-
tizer that in C. Typically, however, embedded sentences are less com-
plex than main clauses and may depend on the latter for their mood
and tense. Examples (45a) to (45c) contain complements to the verb
want: a non-finite CP in (45a) and reduced CPs (possibly TPs) in (45b)
and (45c). Note that the subject of the embedded clause cannot be
passivized, as shown in (45d).
(45) a. I wanted very much [for him to leave].
b. I wanted [him to leave].
c. I wanted [to leave].
d. *He was wanted [to leave].
Want is a deontic verb that selects an irrealis CP complement and
cannot have an indicative or subjunctive clause as its complement,
as the ungrammaticality of (46) shows. This wasn’t always the case, as
Old English (47) shows with willan, the predecessor of want, which has
a subjunctive present verb.
(46) *I want that they (should) do that.
(47) Ic wille . . . þæt þu forgyt-e þæt ic þe nu secge
I want that you forget-SUBJ that I you now say
‘I want you to forget what I am telling you now.’
(Byrhtferth’s Manual 154.14, Visser 1963–73: vol. II, 841).
Sentences that consist of two or more clauses differ tremendously in
the possibilities they have to link these clauses to each other. The verb
try differs from want in that it cannot have a subject expressed in its
complement clause, as (48a) to (48c) show, and cannot therefore
passivize this subject, as (48d) shows.
(48) a. *I tried [for him to leave].
b. *I tried [him to leave].
c. I tried [to leave].
d. *He was tried [to leave].
The usual explanation for the difference is that both have a CP comple-
ment but that want allows an overt or covert for that assigns case to the
subject of the embedded clause. This CP blocks the passivization for
both verbs.
Figure 2.3 provides a continuum found in English; see Givón (1980)
for a slightly different set of complements. The sentences in Figure 2.3
combine two clauses, and, as we go down the list, the verbs that are
the core of each clause become more interdependent on the higher
50 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
verb. Take a look at the examples and see if they make sense. The
transparency of the complement can be marked in the tree, as in (49),
by means of the structure.
(49) a. VP b. VP
V CP V TP
say seems
[indicative] C’ [irrealis] T’
C TP T ...
that to
she T’
T ...
Most verbs, e.g. want in (45), have more than one choice, and a con-
tinuum can be seen with various complement choices of this verb: the
complement in (45c) being the most dependent, and the one in (45a)
the more independent. The complement in (45a) is not completely
independent because, although it has a subject, it has no independent
tense. The same is true of the mood of the embedded clause in (47): It
depends on that of the verb of the higher clause.
The descriptive parameters are a +/– C(omplementizer), +/– nomi-
native subject, +/– subject, +/– tense, and +/– realis mood. The minus-
value means that the two clauses are more dependent on each other.
Another way of putting that is as in Figure 2.4 for the verbs notice, wish,
want, and try for the sentences in Figure 2.3 (leaving the tense of wish
unmarked).
Characteristics Independent
optional C, nominative, and tense
optional C, nominative, and subjunctive mood
optional C, no nominative subject, no tense
no C, no subject, no tense
Example sentences
He reported [(that) it was signed]:
He wished [(that) she would go]:
I want (for) [him to go]:
He seems [to be nice]:
I will [go]: no independence of go from will (Inter)dependent
Figure 2.3 Degrees of clausal (in)dependence
The types of subordinate clause 51
A lot has been written on the selection of clausal complements.
Cross-linguistically, causatives, as in (50), do not seem to have finite
complements, whereas verbs of saying, as in (51), typically do.
(50) The odors at work made [them feel bad].
(COCA 2008 Environmental magazine)
(51) She said [that Lance had gone crazy].
(COCA 2012 NBC Dateline)
Various researchers have tried to predict the syntactic or semantic
properties. Rochette (1988) argues the semantic properties deter-
mine the structural ones. She divides predicates into three semantic
classes: effective, emotive, and propositional. These select both the
semantic (action, event, proposition) and structural type (VP, TP, CP)
of the complement. An effective verb, such as finish or dare, can only
have a projection of V as its complement; an emotive verb, such as
like, has a projection of T as its complement; a propositional verb,
such as say, believe, or know has a projection of C. I think this is the
direction to go in, but the details remain to be worked out (and not in
this book).
We’ll now look more at how the verb in the higher clause,
the matrix verb, determines its complement, and that will give us
more insight into how to represent the various choices. As men-
tioned, not all languages have the same clausal inventories.
For instance, English has what is called Exceptional Case
Marking (ECM), as in (52), but Dutch, as (53) shows, German, and
French do not.
(52) I believe [him to be totally innocent].
(COCA 2007 CBS)
Independent Dependent
+ (+) –
C notice, wish, want try
Nominative notice wish want, try
Subject notice wish, want try
Tense notice want, try
Realis notice wish, want, try
–
Figure 2.4 Parameters of clausal (in)dependence and some verbs
52 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
(53) *Ik geloof hem aardig te zijn Dutch
I believe him nice to be
‘I believe him to be nice.’
ECM clauses are so called because the accusative subject of the
infinitive, him in (52), doesn’t get case from to be totally innocent, i.e.
the verb it is the subject of, but from the verb in the higher clause.
This structure is actually different from (45b), since want, unlike
believe, has an optional for that assigns case. Because believe lacks for,
as shown in (54a), it also lacks a CP boundary and can therefore
passivize the subject of its embedded clause, as (54d) shows. I have
given all the possibilities so as to be able to compare believe with want
in (45) and try in (48).
(54) a. *I believe [for her to be innocent].
b. I believe [her to be innocent].
c. *I believe [to be innocent].
d. She is believed [to be still in New Zealand]. (COCA 1995 ABC 20/20)
Not all verbs allow ECM-complements, e.g. say, and not all ECMs are
the same. The ones with deontic verbs, as in (55), have an irrealis/
future feature, which is why a for complementizer is possible and the
verb has to be non-stative; with epistemic verbs, as in (56), for is not
possible, and the embedded verb has to be stative.
(55) Is it too much to expect for him to do a long-distance committed relationship
for two years? (answers.yahoo.com/question, downloaded August 3, 2011)
(56) We believe (*for) him to have been an honest man.
Apart from the epistemic and deontic distinction, a well-known clas-
sification of matrix verbs is that between factive and non-factive verbs
and between assertive and non-assertive verbs. I will describe the
difference between factive and non-factive, emotive and non-emotive,
and assertive and non-assertive, but will ultimately use a variety of
features to represent the options.
Factives have several defining characteristics (as explained in
Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1970). For instance, they presuppose the truth
of the complement clause by the speaker, as in (57), unlike with non-
factives, as in (58).
(57) I forgot that he left a key. factive
(58) I believe that he left a key. non-factive
Non-factive verbs allow what is called Negative Raising from an
embedded clause such as (59a) to a higher clause, as in (59b), with
The types of subordinate clause 53
minimal semantic effects. Negative Raising does not occur with fac-
tive verbs because (60a) and (60b) do not mean the same. Both kinds of
clause may have an overt complementizer that, but only factives block
percolation of the negative.
(59) a. I believe that he won’t lift a finger.
b. I don’t believe that he’ll lift a finger.
(60) a. It bothers me that he won’t lift a finger.
b. It doesn’t bother me that he will lift a finger
(adapted from Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1970: 162).
Kiparsky and Kiparsky (1970: 169–170) further divide verbs into emo-
tives and non-emotives, as in (61). Note that the emotives are different
from those of Rochette.
(61) Emotive:
factives: regret, resent, deplore, be important
non-factives: intend, prefer, be unlikely
Non-emotive:
factives: forget, be clear, be aware of, know, see, realize, discover
non-factives: say, suppose, conclude, seem, be likely
A for-to or subjunctive complement is not well-formed on its own.
This means its C is defective and needs to be selected by an emotive
or other irrealis higher verb. I have represented that by means of
mood features on C that are inherited by T in (62). The verb of the
lower clause has to be either subjunctive or infinitive to count as
[i-future].
(62) prefer C T V
[irrealis] for to infinitive
[u-mood] [u-mood] [i-fut]
The non-emotive C, as in (63), has uninterpretable mood features as
well but is also connected to uninterpretable tense features.
(63) forget C T V
[realis] that
[u-mood] [u-T] [i-pres/i-past]
[u-T]
While I think the classification in (61) gives some insight, it is easier to
see the differences between verbs in terms of the transparency of the
CP boundary. So, the non-factive emotives are the most transparent,
i.e. have the smaller boundary between the two clauses. Verbs that
disallow Negative Raising, as in (60), and can have it or the fact that
54 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
preceding the complement, as in (64), have a CP with a mood feature, I
will argue. This mood feature will be [+realis] for verbs such as regret
and [-realis] for verbs such as prefer.
(64) a. They regretted it that Hittite became extinct.
b. Many Americans regret the fact that they now discuss sport with the
passion that 200 years ago they brought to everyday debates.
(BNC-ABD 752)
Other verbs do not allow this addition to the clause boundary, as
shown in (65).
(65) a. *Many Americans believe the fact that they now discuss sport.
b. *They believed it that Hedwig had brought that message.
Other differences involve ECM, as in (66), the use of for, as in (55),
raising of the subject from the embedded clause, as in (67a), the
possibility of embedded topics, as in (68a), and subjunctives.
(66) a. I believe him to be nice.
b. *I regret him to be nice.
(67) a. He was believed to be pro-French (BNC-CRK 998).
b. *He was regretted to be pro-French.
(68) a. John believes that this book Mary read often.
b. ?John regrets that this book Mary read often.
A possible representation of a factive verb is given in (69). This is a
single CP but with no possibility to move through the CP and no
independent mood features.1
(69) CP
Spec
(the fact)
(it)
[realis]
C'
C
[u-mood]
[u-T]
that
TP
T’
T
[u-T]
...
1
It is possible, as Basse (2008) suggests, that this kind of CP is not a phase and
therefore allows no extraction. I will leave that for further work.
The types of subordinate clause 55
Apart from factive and emotive, the term assertive is also used. For
instance, Hooper and Thompson (1973) have a division, as in (70),
where the assertive verb is comparable to the non-emotive and the
non-assertive to the emotive verb.
(70) Assertive: Non-assertive:
saying emotive factive (resent, regret)
thinking negative verbs
semi-factive causative
(forget, discover) volition
The terminology in this area is daunting, and I have therefore tried
to use transparent or intransparent and some of the features we
saw before, namely +/– C(omplementizer), +/– nominative subject, +/–
subject, +/– tense, and +/– realis mood. I think that makes more
intuitive sense.
This section starts with a continuum of clausal complexity and
continues with a classification of some of the types of object clauses.
You will see a multitude of terms used in the area of verb classifica-
tion, since there is no comprehensive system generally agreed upon
yet. I have just introduced some of the terms you will see in the
literature, but it is more important to focus on structural differences.
We’ll turn to another frequent type, but one not chosen by the higher
verb.
2.3.3 Adverbial clauses nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Adverbials function to provide information on how, where, when, and
why the action or event took place or to provide information on
how true or likely the speaker thinks the event is. These adverbial
functions are often realized as PPs or APs, but also as clauses, as in (71)
and (72).
(71) a. [After he left] it rained.
b. It rained [after he left].
(72) a. [When he left] they were relieved.
b. They were relieved [when he left].
The complementizer specifies the manner (as), the time (before, after,
since, when), the place (where), the condition (if), or the reason (because,
why, since, in case, lest) of the embedded sentence in relation to the main
clause. The temporal ones are semantically the most complex, as the
timelines in (73) and (74) show for (71a–b) and (72a–b).
(73) ——————— left ————————rain —————
tense 1 (after) tense 2
56 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
(74) a. ——————— left ———relieved ——
tense 1 (when) tense 2
b. ——————— left/relieved ——
tense 1 (when)/tense 2
The preposition/complementizer after has semantic features (e.g.
[time, order, later]) and determines the tense interpretation of its
clause. The event in the main clause must follow the event in the
after-clause.
Like the complement that needs a main verb, the [u-time] looks for an
[i-pres] or [i-past] in the main clause. The [u-T] on C and T expresses what
we’ve seen before, namely that it needs to probe for present or past tense.
(75) CP
C
after
[u-time]
[u-T]
TP
it T’
T
[u-T]
VP
rained
[i-past]
There are many more issues we could bring up here. For instance,
when the complementizer is a wh-pronoun, as in (76), does this wh-
pronoun originate as an adverbial as indicated by the copy? Is this a
hidden relative clause with a null antecedent “in the place”?
(76) He left the book [where he had found the other one where].
Another question is how to handle the adverbial and object clauses
that are non-finite, as in (77) to (79).
(77) [After leaving Greece], she went to Macedonia.
(78) [Kidnapped last week], he was released today.
(79) He insisted on [paying the bill].
Are these nominalizations, and, if so, what is their analysis? I’ll leave
these issues unaddressed and turn to the description of some other
clauses.
2.3.4 Other clauses nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In this section, we look at clauses modifying nouns. We’ll continue to
focus on the various shapes their complementizers have and the
features to be checked.
The types of subordinate clause 57
Clauses that modify nouns are called relative clauses because the
nouns they modify (stories in (80)) have a function in the relative clause,
namely direct object of repeat, indicated by the relative pronoun which.
(80) The stories [which he repeats often] are boring.
Relative pronouns can also have other functions in English, e.g. sub-
ject and indirect object.
Complement clauses, as in (81), are quite different from relative
clauses because the complementizer that in (81a) plays no function
inside the clause. A relative pronoun therefore results in an ill-formed
sentence, such as (81b).
(81) a. Reports [that he reached Mars] are exaggerated.
b. Reports [which he reached Mars] are exaggerated.
The finite clause following the noun in (81a) is called a complement
(and not a relative clause) for other reasons. If we changed (81a) to
(82a), we would force the complement to be a relative clause. Now,
reports (through that) is the object of reached, but the result is very
strange (indicated by the question mark) since reports is not an object
that you’d expect with reached. If we change the verb to read, as in
(82b), we do get a relative clause because one can read reports.
(82) a. ?Reports [that he reached] are exaggerated.
b. Reports [that he reads] are (always) exaggerated.
Relative clauses need to be predicated of a noun. Since Chomsky
(1977), relative clauses have been analyzed using an operator moving
to the Spec of CP, as in (83), with either the which or the that, or neither,
surfacing, as (84) shows.
(83) NP
N CP
stories
Op C’
C
that
TP
…. Op
which
(84) a. The stories [which he repeats often] are boring.
b. The stories [that he repeats often] are boring.
c. The stories [he repeats often] are boring.
58 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
In some varieties of English, both wh-phrase and complementizer can
be spelled out, as shown in (85).
(85) a. This program in which that I am involved is designed to help low-income
first generation attend a four-year university and many of the resources they
and (www.reaksmey.org/JamieTiengEssay.html)
b. it’s down to the community in which that the people live (BNC-KNF 569).
Children may not yet move the relativized object, as shown in (86),
and therefore typically use the complementizer that to form an rela-
tive clause, not the specifier which, which would be moving.
(86) The one that he lifted it (Lia, 4;5, Perez-Leroux 1995, from Guasti 2002: 230)
Formulating the exact grammatical rules that govern the choice of a
wh-word over that or that over a wh-word is not easy, and we’ll return to
this question after we have looked at a couple of other issues. What we
do know, partly thanks to data like (85a–b), is that the wh-word has
moved to a specifier position, and that is base-generated in a head
position, as in (87).
(87)
a. CP b. CP
in which program C’ who C’
C TP C TP
that that
I am involved in which program I saw who
There are many proposals to add features to (87). Adger and Ramchand
(2001), for instance, suggest (88), where Ʌ will insure that the CP is
interpreted as a predicate and Var is similar to phi-features (in later
work they change the Var, but this is not important for our purposes).
The Var features ensure agreement between C and the wh-pronoun.
(88) that[Ʌ, uVar] he repeats pro [uɅ, Var]
I’ll stick to the Ʌ but change the Var into phi-features for simplicity’s
sake, and I add the finiteness features. This gives the following
account for (89).
The types of subordinate clause 59
(89)
N CP
stories
C’
C TP
that
[Λ, u-phi] T … which
[u-T] [u-T] [i-3P]
[u- Λ]
In (89), the Ʌ in C ensures that the CP is a predicate to the noun, but
only if there is a wh-element in the clause. The phi-features ensure
compatibility between the noun and the relative pronoun.
Apart from the question of the features of the C and wh-pronoun,
there is a question about the structure. The tree in (89) shows the
relative clause as sister to N, and this cannot be correct, since the CP
is not the object/complement of the N. If we used N’ instead, we’d
have trouble with the LCA, because stories precedes the words in the
relative clause, although the latter asymmetrically c-command sto-
ries. Kayne (1994) therefore proposes an alternative where a D selects
a CP, as in (90a), and the NP moves to the Spec of the lower DP after
which the entire DP moves to Spec CP, as in (90b).
(90) a. [DP the [CP C Putin made [DP which [NP decision ]]]]
b. [DP the [CP [DP [NP decision ]i which ti ]j C Putin made tj ]]]
If there is no which as D, the DP decision moves on its own, as between
(91a) and (91b).
(91) a. [DP the [CP that [Putin made [DP decision ]]]]
b. [DP the [CP [DP decision ]j that [Putin made tj ]]]]
In this analysis, “[r]elative pronouns are determiners that have lost
their associated NP via Raising” (Kayne 2011: 4). I’ll draw the tree in
(92) for the more complex derivation in (90).
60 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
(92) DP
D CP
the
C’
C TP
Putin
Putin
T’
T VP
V’
V DP
made
D’
D NP
which decision
Evidence for the movement of the nominal is given in (93). If pictures of
himself started out in the higher position, himself would not have a
c-commanding antecedent. If it starts out in the position indicated
by the copy in (93), all is as expected.
(93) The [pictures of himself] that Putin took pictures of himself.
The analysis prompted by the LCA allows both complementizer or
wh-phrase. It is the most accepted analysis of restrictive relative
clauses. The features as in (88) are not needed in (92), and this is an
advantage. Noun-complements, such as (81a), are straightforward
CPs without anything moving, so a wh-pronoun is not expected,
and this is correct.
There is a special type of relative clause, namely the non-restrictive
relative clause. It can go with a nominal, as in (94a), or with a full
sentence, as in (94b).
The types of subordinate clause 61
(94) a. Hillary Clinton, who just returned from a trip to Cuba, intends to write a
book.
b. The sky is full of chem-trails, which I hate.
Unlike the complement clause or relative clause discussed above,
which we will call restrictive, the clauses in (94) can only have wh-
pronouns, and they have comma-intonation. Kayne (1994: 111) sug-
gests basically the same derivation for restrictive and non-restrictive
relative clauses. Let’s look at an alternative.
Koster (2000) suggests a “colon-phrase” to account for (94ab), with a
colon-head between the DP (or CP) and the non-restrictive CP, as in
(95a–b). The colon appears in writing, but in spoken language the
colon represents a pause around the phrase.
(95) a. DP b. CP
DP :P CP :P
Clinton
: CP : CP
who … which ….
The non-restrictive relative clause in (95) is, correctly, outside the
scope of D at LF. The relative pronoun can also be replaced by a full
pronoun and then the relative becomes an interjection or a separate
clause, as in (96a–b).
(96) a. Hillary Clinton intends to write a book. She just returned from a trip to
Cuba.
b. The sky is full of chem-trails. This I hate.
This independence of the noun and the relative clause is the reason
that is ungrammatical in non-restrictive relative clauses.
Three differences (at least) between restrictive and non-restrictive
relative clauses and complement clauses – most of which we have
discussed – should be accounted for. They are listed in Table 2.3.
Commas provide grammatical clues in English. They cannot
separate a V or N or D from their complements, and they or comma-
intonation can therefore not appear in (81) and (92). In non-restrictive
relative clauses, the N and CP do not have such as relationship.
Instead, we could spell out the colon-phrase in (95) as a comma.
62 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
As for the choice between the pronoun or the complementizer,
complement clauses have no operator moving to the Spec CP, and so
have only the that-possibility. Restrictive relative clauses can have a
that or a wh-word or nothing, as in (84), although there is a real
preference in spoken English for that. I think this preference is due
to an Economy Principle that favors heads over specifiers (see van
Gelderen 2004: 11). In the non-restrictive relative clause (94a), on the
other hand, only a wh-pronoun occurs, and that is not possible, as (97)
shows. I would argue that the phi-features have to be overt in struc-
tures such as (95). This is due to the independence of the CP from the
DP in (95).
(97) *Hillary Clinton, that just returned from a trip to (non-restrictive) Cuba,
intends to write a book.
The third difference listed in Table 2.3 is that restrictive relative
clauses provide essential information, unlike non-restrictive ones.
For instance, in (80), the stories is so general that the relative clause
restricts and specifies the stories that are meant. In the case of (94a),
everyone living in the US at the beginning of the twenty-first century
is expected to know who Hillary Clinton is, and therefore the NP
Hillary Clinton does not need to be restricted. The relative clause just
provides background information that is not essential in knowing
which noun is meant. That’s why it is called non-restrictive relative
clause and also explains why splitting the sentence into two clauses is
common, as in (96) above.
A nice contrast between restrictive and non-restrictive relative
clauses is provided by (98) and (99).
(98) Bankers that are crooks should be fired. (restrictive)
(99) Bankers, who are crooks, work overtime nowadays. (non-restrictive)
Table 2.3 Restrictive and non-restrictive relative clauses and noun-complements
Restrictive Non-restrictive Complement
commas cannot surround it commas may surround it no commas
wh-pronoun or that or zero only wh-pronouns only that or zero
highly relevant information additional information may replace the N
The types of subordinate clause 63
Of course, you could substitute bankers with politicians, investors, house
keepers, professors, or linguists as well. The choice in the complemen-
tizers is crucial here, although that choice is partly stylistic (not
grammatical) and partly grammatical. Thus, style guides tell you not
to use that when the antecedent is human, as in (98); they don’t have to
tell you to use who in (99), because that is automatic.
One last point I’d like to add about relative and complement
clauses – since we won’t come back to them any more – is islands.
As we’ll see, various CPs are intransparent and cannot have an extrac-
tion from the CP. Relative clauses are famous for being islands, as has
been noted since Ross (1967). In (100), extraction of the wh-pronoun
from the CP is possible, because the CP is an object clause, but, in (101)
and (102), it is not, because the CP is a complement to a noun and a
relative clause respectively.
(100) What did I hear CP[that she said what]?
(101) *What did I hear the rumor CP[that she said what]?
(102) *Who did they meet the man [that knows who]?
Islands have received various explanations. One is that the wh-element
cannot cross two boundaries, such as the DP, CP, or TP, in one step. I
show this for the noun complement in (103), where the first step to the
Spec of CP is ok (crossing only on TP), but the second is not (crossing a
DP and TP).
(103) *What did TP[ I hear DP[ the rumor CP[what that TP[she said what]]]]
This way of formulating the constraint on movement is known as
Subjacency. In the current theory, we account for the ungrammati-
cality through phases. If only vP and CP are phases, what is inaccessible
for the probe in the C.
Wrapping up Section 2.3, we have examined embeddings by look-
ing at the role of complementizers, at the dependence of clausal
objects on their matrix verbs, at the structure of adverbial clauses,
and clauses that are modifiers and complements to nouns. In the next
section, we’ll divide up the clause into three areas, and this is moti-
vated by e.g. the semantic, grammatical, and pragmatic roles/func-
tions that are marked in different areas in the clause, as we’ll briefly
explain now before devoting Chapters 3, 4, and 5 to each of these
layers.
64 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
2 . 4 T H E T H R EE L A Y E RS
We have defined a clause as having mood, tense, a grammatical sub-
ject, and a lexical verb. Parts of the clause play roles and functions, and
indicate the existence of three different clausal spheres. This book
emphasizes these three domains, and I will briefly introduce them
here before devoting a chapter to each of the three.
The CP is the pragmatic layer and houses the mood of a clause,
information on finiteness, and the topicalized and focalized material.
Its head, the C(omplementizer), has features of mood and tense and
communicates with T(ense) in the TP-Layer. As we’ve seen in
Chapter 1, when I sketched the tension between Minimalism and
Cartography, Rizzi (1997: 288) proposes to split the CP into Force,
which indicates the mood of the sentence, and the Fin, which marks
its finiteness. The Force looks to the “outside” and connects the prop-
osition (what is being asserted about an event at a certain time) to
another clause in the case of embedded clauses, or to the discourse
event in the case of a main clause. The mood determines the tense, and
this is represented on the Fin.
(104) Splitting the CP into:
ForceP
Force’
Force ... FinP
indicative
Fin’
Fin TP
tense
In between Force and Fin, the pragmatic Topic and Focus projections
are possible, as well as adverbials that mark the mood of the speaker,
as in (105).
(105) Higher adverbs
Mood speech act Mood evaluative Mood evidential
frankly fortunately allegedly
(Cinque 1999: 106)
The three layers 65
In Chapter 5, we look at how to add the adverbials and the pragmatic
roles and the mood together. For now, (106) suffices, where that book
topicalizes to the specifier of the TopicP.
(106)
ForceP
Force’
Force TopicP
[i-ind]
That book Topic’ = CP-Layer
Topic FocusP
Focus’
pragmatic roles
Focus FinP
Fin’
Fin TP
[u-T]
I really like that book
The TP is the grammatical layer and includes tense, (epistemic)
mood, aspect, verbal agreement, and grammatical case. It is the
area that is cross-linguistically perhaps the most diverse, since
not all languages have agreement and case. In English, a TP can
be expanded into (107). As we saw in Chapter 1, agreement is repre-
sented by [phi]-features, and case by [T] features; I have not repre-
sented the Aspect in terms of features but do so in Chapter 4.
66 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
(107) TP
She T’
[i-3S]
[u-T]
[u-phi:3S]
[uT: fut]
[uT: fut]
T MP = TP-Layer
grammatical
subject M’
M ASPP
might
ASP’
ASP vP
possible grammatical have
object [i-fut] left
In (108), some of the TP adverbials are listed. Here, too, we’ll wait till
later to see how they all fit together.
(108) Tpast Tfut Moodir Modnec Modpos ASPhab ASPrep ASPfreq
once then perhaps necessarily possibly usually again often
(Cinque 1999: 106)
The vP-Layer is used for information on the argument and event
structure. Traditionally, we say it represents argument structure, i.e.
“who did what to whom.” It has also come to represent the aspectual
information directly pertinent to the event (Aktionsart or internal
aspect), whereas the aspectual information relevant to viewing the
event from the outside (grammatical or external aspect) is in the ASP
head in the TP-Layer in (107). The aspect inside the vP relates directly
to the verb, e.g. durative verbs are typically imperfective. The vP-Layer
houses the lexical verbs and its arguments as well as light verbs. We
have introduced the vP in Chapter 1, and the next chapter will have
more on this layer. For now, (109) should suffice, with EA marking the
highest semantic role, as in Chomsky (2011).
The three layers 67
(109)
vP
EA= She v’ = VP-Layer
v ASPP
made
semantic roles the ball ASP’
ASP VP
V PP
roll
down the hill
As to the adverbial angle of the vP, Haumann’s (2007: 403) list in (110)
provides a nice skeleton for aspectual adverbials in the VP, where
DegPerf, Freq, Rep, AspPcompl, and Rest stand for Degree of
Perfection, Frequency, Repetition, and Completion adverb
respectively.
(110) VP adverbs
SpaceP > AgentP > DomainP > MannerP > DegPerfP >
here deliberately universally loudly slightly
MeansP > FreqP > RepP > AspPcompl > RestP
manually rarely again completely again
(from Haumann 2007: 403)
Again, we’ll wait till later to fit these adverbials in.
This section has introduced the three layers and has also indicated
some challenges in keeping them separate. Chapters 3, 4, and 5 will
present this material in more detail. First, we’ll finish this chapter by
looking at a few of the ways clauses may differ cross-linguistically.
2 . 5 C R O S S - L I N G U I S T I C O B S E R V A T I O N S
In this section, we’ll make some brief remarks on the cross-linguistic
characteristics of main and embedded clauses: mood/finiteness, the
subject function, and the varieties of complex clauses.
68 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
2.5.1 The main clause nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In English, as we’ve seen, the defining characteristic of a main clause
is to have a certain mood; a finite verb, marked for tense and agree-
ment; and a subject. Some languages have very different main clauses
from those in English.
Every language has ways to express mood; its expression is not
optional, as Table 2.4 shows for interrogatives. The one exception in
that table is Chalcatongo Mixtec (Macauley 1996: 126); another variety
of Mixtec, however, has a question particle (Daly 1973: 7).
Indicative, interrogative, and other moods are marked in English by
word order, namely through the fronting of an auxiliary or a wh-
element (cf. (2) to (6)). Mood in other languages can be distinguished
morphologically on the verb or auxiliary or by means of a particle. For
instance, Hindi/Urdu use the particle kya to ask a yes/no question.
(111) Kya ap jant-e he ke . . .? Hindi/Urdu
Q you know-P AUX that
‘Do you know that . . .’
The use of a question particle, as in (111), is in fact the most frequent,
as the data from WALS in Table 2.4 show. The English strategy is
relatively rare, as you can see, represented in this sample by thirteen
languages. If you were to look on the WALS map, you’d see the
phenomenon is geographically concentrated on Europe.
As for finiteness, there is a lot of debate as to what it means. Many
people think it is not a universally definable category. Koptjevska-
Tamm (1990: 149) doubts the universality of finiteness: “while it is
relatively easy to determine whether a language makes a distinction
between independent and dependent verb forms, it is not always easy
or reasonable to apply the notion of finiteness.”
Table 2.4 Yes/no questions (Dryer 2011b)
Question particle 584
Interrogative verb morphology 164
Mixture of previous two types 15
Interrogative word order 13
Absence of declarative morphemes 4
Interrogative intonation only 173
No interrogative-declarative distinction 1
Total: 954 languages
Cross-linguistic observations 69
As we’ve seen, in English, finiteness involves agreement and tense
and nominative case, but that is not so in other languages. Some
languages do not mark subjects of finite clauses with nominative or
another case, and some languages have verbs not marked for tense or
agreement. Chinese is one such language where agreement and case
are not marked and aspect, as in (112), only optionally.
(112) wo he le cha Chinese
I drink PF tea
‘I drank tea.’
There are also languages where what look like typically finite charac-
teristics are used in non-finite clauses. For instance, in the Logudorese-
Nuorese variety of Sardinian, infinitives have nominative subjects and
the infinitival verb has agreement, as in (113).
(113) non kelj-o a cantar-es tue Sardinian
not want-1S to sing-2S 2S.NOM
‘I don’t want you to sing.’ (Jones 1992: 295)
You could ask how (113) is different from an indicative or subjunctive.
The answer is that the complementizer is not the indicative ki “that,”
and the subject can only follow the infinitive, whereas indicative
subjects can precede. Portuguese and (standard) Sardinian have nom-
inative subjects as well, with Portuguese inflecting the infinitive but
having the subject precede the verb. The lesson of this is that embedd-
edness and dependence can be expressed in many ways.
A last characteristic of the main clause in English is the obligatory
expression of a subject, also known as the EPP in Generative
Grammar. If you know languages such as Spanish or Italian or
Chinese, you know that they need not express a subject, as in (114).
(114) (Wo) chi fan Chinese
1S ate rice
‘I ate (rice).’
Polysynthetic languages such as Navajo typically do not express the
subject as a separate phrase. There is a debate as to whether the affixes
on the verb in (115) count as real pronouns rather than as “just”
agreement. If the affix is indeed the subject, the EPP is not relevant
in Navajo.
(115) yiniłtsa
˛ Navajo
yi-ni-ł-tsa
˛
it-you-CL-saw
‘You have seen it.’
70 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
This means that the characteristics of a main clause vary quite a bit.
The morphological characteristics of nominative case and agreement
may only be valid in languages that are morphologically complex, i.e.
in synthetic languages. The syntactic characteristic of expressing an
overt subject is quite variable too. Cross-linguistically, languages
therefore mark mood but not necessarily tense, and need not move
the grammatical subject to a special position or have it at all.
2.5.2 The embedded clause nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
All languages have complex clauses. Some of the different types of
coordination and subordination are briefly mentioned here.
Coordination can be of words, phrases, and clauses. The semantics
can be of many types: simple addition (e.g. English and) or one but not
the other (e.g. English but not or or) or neither of the two (e.g. English
neither . . . nor). In some languages, the simple addition can be marked
without a coordinator. The adversative is always marked, e.g. English
but, although, German aber, and Navajo ndi, but the additive need not
be. I’ll provide a few examples.
In some languages, the coordinator or the verb indicates if the
subject remains the same or not. Thus, nɔ in (116) indicates that the
subject of the one clause is different from that of the other.
(116) hegɔ́ kɔ́ygú ét-k’yá:lé: nɔ Kiowa
then Kiowa 3P-invite and
thá:ɔn-hɔ:be: ém-k’óp
town-near 3P-camp
‘Then they invited the Kiowas and the latter camped close to town.’
(Watkins 1990: 412)
(The prefixes on the verb also contribute to this interpretation, but I
have left that out.) Even though nɔ is a coordinator, we could say that
the second clause in (116) is embedded in some way.
Languages also differ in the types of subordinate, or embedded,
clauses they have. As mentioned in Section 2.3.2, English has various
types of infinitival and participial clause, as in (117).
(117) a. Unaccompanied she began to sing in the local language.(BNC-H7E 1014)
b. At the bar a group of dossers began singing Roaming in the Gloaming.
(BNC-BNC 2820)
Purely analytic languages, i.e. with little morphology, lack inflected
forms of verbs, and so only have bare forms, as in (118).
Cross-linguistic observations 71
(118) knom jɔng rian pia-saa kmae Cambodian
I want study language Cambodian
‘I want to study Cambodian.’
Many such languages have serial verb constructions, as in (119).
Here, it is hard to see which clause is dependent, and these are often
called cosubordinate.
(119) and ying ba jian kan Chinese
should hold sword see
‘I should take the sword and see it.’
(Tang dynasty poem, Li and Thompson 1974: 202–203)
Heavily inflected languages, also known as polysynthetic languages,
such as Navajo, are much more restricted in terms of clausal comple-
ments and have frequent nominalizations, as in (120), where the verb
with -nı́gı́ı́ has been nominalized.
(120) honeesná-nígíí yoodlá Navajo
3.win-NMZ 3.believe
‘He believes he won/he believes the winner.’ (Willie 1991: 178)
In short, all languages indicate mood, although finiteness is a much
more language-specific notion. Complex sentences, too, display quite
some variation.
2 . 6 C O N C L U S I O N
In this chapter, we have looked at some ways of differentiating
between independent (main) and dependent (embedded) clauses.
The presence or absence of a lexical verb, mood, tense, grammatical
subject, and complementizer are all relevant. We also discussed differ-
ent types of complement and how the main verb determines the type
of complement, and we’ll come back to most of these issues in more
detail in Chapter 5.
Complementizers are very important as they give us insight into the
clausal mood and clausal selection by a higher verb. Coordinate and
non-complement subordinate clauses will not feature in the remain-
der of this book.
Because the terminology is daunting, Table 2.5 is provided with
some synonyms for terms mentioned.
Having stressed that a lexical verb is crucial to a clause and that
mood, agreement, and tense render it independent or dependent,
we’ll turn to this lexical verb and its arguments in the next chapter.
72 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
Keywords
Finite, agreement, subject, tense, mood, aspect, clause, coordination,
subordination, embedding, nominalization, relative clause, adverbial,
complement clause, CP, TP, vP, layers
D I S C U S S I O N P O I N T S
1. Circle the finite verbs in the text below and identify the functions of
the underlined clauses. Are there any challenges you run into?
At least 22 families living in the capital’s Chamkarmon district say
they are being forced to sell their land at below market value to
Thailand’s Bun Roong Company in order to make way for a housing
development. Village representative Chhim Veasna said on
Wednesday that the families, living on a parcel of land in Tonle Bassac
commune known as T85, had received a notice from the Council of
Ministers mandating that they sell their land for US$400 per square
metre. The villagers say their land is worth between $2,000 and $2,500
per square metre. “We are very concerned about our houses and living
situation because we are being forced to move by the Thai Bun Roong
Company,” Chhim Veasna said. “They want to expel us from our
places by forcing us to sell our houses to them at the lowest prices.”
(Phnom Penh Daily, September 22, 2011)
2. Draw a tree for (1). Would you include the CP? Discuss reasons.
(1) I expect to leave soon.
3. There is a Baby Blues cartoon where Zoe is asking for a pony and
says to her father, “So you’re not going to buy me a pony, right?”
Table 2.5 Terms for clauses and functions
sentence = main clause = matrix clause = independent clause = superordinate
clause
Clause
f embedded clause/sentence = dependent/subordinate clause = CP
coordinated clause = coordinated sentence
complementizer = subordinating conjunction = subordinator = C
coordinator = coordinating conjunction = C
adverbial = adjunct = modifier
complement = object
Discussion points 73
and her father answers, “Right.” She then proceeds with, “And
you’re not just saying that to fool me into thinking that you’re
not going to buy me a pony so I’ll be surprised because you really
ARE going to buy me a pony which you said your aren’t, right?”
How many main verbs are in that last sentence? Explain the
relationships between the verbs in terms of subordination or
coordination.
4. Is (2) finite or not; is it a dependent or independent clause? What
about (3)?
(2) Me do that? No way.
(3) En of ze plezier hadden! Dutch
and if they pleasure had
‘They were really enjoying themselves.’
5. In the section on relative clauses, we argued that relative clauses
are islands. Look at (4) and (5) and identify the relative clauses.
Comment on their structure.
(4) Isn’t that the song that Paul and Stevie were the only ones who wanted to
record?
(5) This is a paper that we really need to find someone who understands.
(Chung and McCloskey 1983: 708)
6. Noun-complements have been discussed as nouns with CP-
complements. Could they be colon-phrases, as the non-restrictive
relative clauses are in (95) above? What are the advantages and
diadvantages of such an analysis?
S U G G E S T I O N S F O R F U R T H E R RE A D I N G
For more on clauses, and complement and clause types, read Givón, e.g.
(1980), (2006), or (2009), Noonan (1985), and Saddock and Zwicky
(1985). Bril (2010) is a collection of typological studies on clause-
linking.
Grammatical and other functions of DPs are explored in chapters 4 and 5
of van Gelderen (2010), and Keenan (1976) provides diagnostics for
the grammatical subject.
Stewart (2001) has a generative account of serial verbs, and Dixon and
Aikhenvald (2006) look at serial verbs from a more typological per-
spective. Yap et al. (2011) contain information on nominalization.
Kush, Omaki, and Hornstein (in press) discuss a parsing account to islands.
74 T H E CL A U SE : A D E S C R I P T I O N
3 The VP-Layer
In this chapter, we examine the layer that represents argument and
event structure. The central question is how to map the arguments onto
the syntactic structure. When thematic structure is first introduced into
generative syntax in the late 1970s, it is projectionist: the lexical item
(usually the verb) determines the argument structure of the clause. This
is also known as a lexicalist approach. In the early 1990s, the verb is
seen as composed of smaller events, and the structure around the verb
comes to be seen as playing a major role in thematic/argument struc-
ture. This approach is known as constructionist. Structurally, the infor-
mation on the aspect and the definiteness of the arguments is
represented by a double VP, known as the VP-shell.
At the moment, both projectionist and constructionist views are
important in the literature. The position argued for in this chapter is
that both the information about the verb in the lexicon and structure
added from the outside play a role. The crucial problem for both
approaches is how we derive the hierarchical order of arguments.
Section 3.1 reviews some of the developments in representing argu-
ment structure from the early 1980s to the present. Unergative, unac-
cusative, and transitive verbs are discussed in Section 3.2. Sections 3.3
and 3.4 discuss alternations, the inchoative/causative alternation and
“double object” one, respectively. Section 3.5 looks at aspect and the
event structure. Section 3.6 includes some remarks on cross-linguistic
variation and on acquisition. In Section 3.7, I end by comparing the
lexicalist and constructionist approaches and also by tying argument
structure to the main topic of the book, namely how a feature-based
approach and constructionist approach work together.
3 . 1 AR G U M EN T S T R U C T U R E
In this section, valency and voice are briefly introduced. After that, the
representation of argument structure is sketched, first via theta-roles,
75
i.e. using a lexical or projectionist approach, and then via the vP, a
constructionist approach.
3.1.1 Valency and voice nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
A simple definition of valency involves the number of arguments a
verb has. For instance, transitive verbs have two arguments and a
valency of two; intransitive verbs have one and a valency of one.
Verbs can have from zero to three arguments, as shown in (1), where
it is an expletive in (1a), i.e. not an argument.
(1) a. rain, snow 0 arguments, as in ‘It rained.’
b. swim, arrive 1 argument, as in ‘They swam.’
c. eat, see 2 arguments, as in ‘He ate an apple.’
d. give, tell 3 arguments, as in ‘They gave us work.’
For now, let’s assume that a verb typically has one basic valency. The
arguments can be marked on the verb through agreement or via case
marking on the arguments (as we have seen in Chapter 1).
Valency, however, is not “either-or,” as Hopper and Thompson’s
(1980) transitivity parameters have shown; see Table 3.1. A verb such
as hit with an affected object is a highly transitive verb, but read with
a (hopefully) little affected object is less so; hit is also punctual, but
read is non-punctual. Highly transitive verbs are not likely to drop the
object, as (2a) shows for hit, but verbs that are not so highly transitive
do drop the object more readily, as (2b) shows for read.
(2) What did you do yesterday?
a. *I hit.
b. I read.
Table 3.1 Transitivity parameters (as in Hopper and Thompson 1980: 252)
Parameter High valency Low valency
A Participants 2 1
B Kinesis action non-action
C Aspect telic atelic
D Punctuality punctual non-punctual
E Volitionality volitional non-volitional
F Affirmation affirmative negative
G Mode realis irrealis
H Agency A high in potency A low in potency
I Affectedness of O O totally affected O not (totally) affected
J O individuation O highly individuated O non-individuated
76 T H E V P-L A Y E R
Atelic verbs occur more often in the progressive. An informal search in
the COCA corpus shows that the verb hit is a little less frequent than
read (61,639 and 86,993 respectively), but the numbers of the auxiliary
“be” followed by hitting is much less (namely 2,056) than those of “be”
followed by reading (namely 5,505).
The meaning of a verb is therefore relevant in determining the
argument structure as well as its aspect. This is expressed by A to E
and H to J in Table 3.1. Factors F and G are not determined by the
meaning of the verb but by the properties of the higher CP.
Languages have ways to modify the valency of the verb. The causa-
tive and ditransitive constructions will be discussed in Sections 3.3
and 3.4, respectively. A causative construction has an additional argu-
ment, namely a Causer, whereas a ditransitive verb has two ways to
express its arguments (at least in English). Apart from argument addi-
tion and change, we can also reduce the valency, as in passives and
middles. This phenomenon is often referred to as passive or middle
voice, as opposed to the active voice. An example of an active, passive,
and middle voice is given in (3), but is not further developed in this
chapter.
(3) a. That store sells fake iPods.TM
active
b. Fake iPodsTM
were sold by that store. passive
c. Fake iPodsTM
sell well. middle
Valency-reduction is a way to promote the lower argument, e.g. fake
iPodsTM
in (2a) is the grammatical object but is promoted to subject in
(2bc). The terms subject and object are confusing here, and this is one
of the reasons we add theta-roles, to which we turn next.
3.1.2 Theta-roles nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
There are many views on how to represent argument/event structure.
Based on Gruber (1965), Fillmore (1968), and Jackendoff (1972),
Chomsky (1981: 34ff.) introduces theta-roles. Verbs are listed in the
lexicon with their theta-roles (theta-grids), and there needs to be a
matching number of arguments to theta-roles in the syntax. If eat is
listed as needing two theta-roles (Agent and Theme), there will need to
be two arguments (e.g. DPs), and to each argument a theta-role will
have to be assigned. This is known as the Theta-Criterion.
Theta-Criterion
Each argument bears one, and only one, theta-role, and each theta-
role is assigned to one, and only one, argument.
Argument structure 77
Expletive subjects (it and there) and adjuncts do not bear theta-roles;
the infinitival empty subject PRO and the null subject to finite verbs
represented as pro in pro-drop languages do have theta-roles.
A list of the typical characteristics of the most common of these roles
is given in (4). Not everyone uses exactly the same set or name, e.g.
Agent and Theme are also referred to as Actor and Patient respectively.
(4) Agent: an animate entity that deliberately brings about the event.
Causer: entity responsible for (initiating) an event
Experiencer: an animate entity that experiences the event
Theme: person or object affected by the action
Goal: animate entity that the event is done to or for
Williams (1981: 83ff.) has perhaps the clearest (early) representations
of argument structure as the “list of its arguments” (p. 86). An example
of a theta-grid is given in (5).
(5) a. hit (A, Th)
b. see (Exp, Th)
c. give (A, Th, G)
d. seem (Theme, (Exp))
To indicate that one of these arguments may become the grammatical
subject, Williams underlines that argument and refers to it as the
External Argument, earlier abbreviated as EA. Of the verbs in (5),
hit and give have their Agents underlined, since they become the
grammatical subject; with see, it is the Experiencer that serves as
subject. The argument structure of (5a) is given in (6). This is pretty
straightforward, as are the ones for see and give in (5bc) (not provided).
(6) The player hit the baseball.
A Th
The verb seem of (5d) has an optional Experiencer that it assigns to the
PP to me in (7) and a Theme that it assigns to the CP complement.
Neither of these theta-roles are underlined, so neither functions as the
grammatical subject. Because English sentences need subjects, a non-
argument (expletive) it appears in subject position. This expletive does
not need, and does not receive, a theta-role, as (7) shows.
(7) It seems (to me) [that the player hit the baseball].
(Exp) Th A Th
Inside the CP that is the Theme of seem, the verb hit also assigns theta-
roles, namely an Agent and a Theme.
78 T H E V P-L A Y E R
Williams also looks at the realization of the arguments. He includes
rules whereby Agents can be realized inside the VP, as in (8a); Goals
preceded by the preposition to, as in (8b); and where Themes end up as
NPs inside a VP, as in (8c).
(8) Realization rules (a few)
a. Agent: (NP, PPby) John was seen by Bill
b. Goal: (NP, PPto) to give to John
c. Theme: (NP) hit Bill
(from Williams 1981: 88)
As mentioned, the names of the theta-roles sometimes differ: Actor
and Agent are used to refer to the same role, and Patient and Theme as
well. In what follows below, I use Agent, Causer, Experiencer, Theme,
Goal, and Location/Result; minor roles are Target and Instrument.
A huge refinement of the realization or mapping of arguments onto
the syntactic structure comes in terms of thematic hierarchies. This
means the lexical entry in (5) no longer needs to idiosyncratically list
the EA. Instead, certain thematic roles show up in certain syntactic
positions: the Agent is usually the grammatical subject and the Theme
the grammatical object, and the Location may be an adjunct. A provi-
sional hierarchy is shown in (9).
(9) (Provisional) Thematic Hierarchy
Agent > Theme > Location.
The higher an argument is on the Thematic Hierarchy, the higher it is
in the tree and the earlier it is pronounced. One way of ensuring that
order is using Baker’s (1988: 46) Uniformity of Theta Assignment
Hypothesis, or UTAH, given in (10), although the UTAH is not commit-
ted to one or other hierarchy.
(10) Uniformity of Theta Assignment Hypothesis
Identical thematic relationships between items are represented by identical
structural relationships between those items at the level of D-Structure (from
Baker 1988: 46).
So, the Theme fake iPodsTM
in (3abc) will have the same underlying
position, although it may surface in different positions if higher
semantic roles are absent.
Belletti and Rizzi (1988) identify verbs of psychological states, or
psych-verbs, where, in (11ab), the Theme theta-role ends up higher in
the syntactic hierarchy than the Experiencer but, in (12ab), the reverse
order occurs.
(11) a. That worried me.
TH EXP
b. It pleased me.
TH EXP
Argument structure 79
(12) a. She was worried about that.
EXP TH
b. She liked it.
EXP TH
If psych-verbs sometimes map the Theme higher than the Experiencer
and sometimes lower, this means the UTAH is violated.
One possible solution to this mapping problem is to split up the
Theme into a Target or Subject Matter and Causer, as Pesetsky
(1995) does. In (11), the TH is argued to be a Causer and higher in the
Hierarchy than the Experiencer; in (12), the TH is a Subject Matter and
lower in the Hierarchy. That saves the Hierarchy, and we can formu-
late a more precise Hierarchy as (13).
(13) (Revised) Thematic Hierarchy
Agent > Causer > Experiencer > Subject Matter > Goal
One of the problems with theta-roles is that they seem so subjective,
and, as a result, alternatives have been suggested. More recently,
Reinhart (2002), Marelj (2002; 2004), and Haiden (2005) have updated
theta-roles and take them as consisting of clusters of binary features,
c (for cause) and m (for mental involvement). I will now sketch that
system and assume a modified version in the rest of the book.
Reinhart proposes both the fully specified ones on the left side in
(14) but also the underspecified ones on the right.
(14) Thematic Feature Clusters
[+c,+m] Agent [+c] Cause
[–c,+m] Experiencer [+m] sentient1
[+c,–m] Instrument [–c] Goal
[–c,–m] Theme [–m] Subject Matter
This is a much more restricted set of theta-roles, and it is based on two
feature choices that are relevant to argument structure. The fact that
theta-roles are not primitives but further decomposable as binary
features also allows one to see that there is an overlap, e.g. Agent
and Causer have something in common, i.e. [+c], and so do Agent
and Experiencer, i.e. [+m], as do the Theme and Subject Matter, i.e.
[–m], and the Experiencer and Goal, i.e. [–c].
A transitive verb such as eat has [+c,+m] as one of its theta-roles, i.e.
an Agent in (15), but open has [+c] and is therefore compatible with an
Agent, Instrument, and Cause, as in (16).
1
Reinhart uses [+m] rather than [-c+m] for love, know, and believe; for the purposes of
this chapter (and the book), we will ignore it.
80 T H E V P-L A Y E R
(15) The baby/*the spoon/*hunger ate the soup.
Agent/*Instrument/*Cause = [+c,+m]
(16) Max/the key/the wind opened the door.
Agent/Instrument/Cause = [+c] (from Reinhart 2002: 14–15)
We’ll come back to the transitive/intransitive alternation that is pos-
sible in (16) with the verb open but will first add a little more on the
other clusters.
See if you agree with the theta-roles in (17), which I have changed a
little from Reinhart (by using [–c+m] in (17b) rather than [+m]).
(17) a. read [+c+m] [–c–m]
b. like, love, know [–c+m] [–m]
c. please, worry, frighten [+c] [–c+m] ([–m])
I think read and like are pretty obvious, and we’ll talk about please and
others in a minute.
How does this system handle the mapping from the lexicon to the
syntax? Based on Williams (1981), Reinhart develops a system that
assigns values to verbs that have more than one argument, namely a
1 to a cluster that only has + values and a 2 to a cluster that has –
values. The argument with a 2 is first merged with the verb and is
therefore the lowest, and the argument with 1 is last merged and is
therefore the highest. In English, this highest argument will be
moved to the position of the grammatical subject. Clusters with
mixed values are not given a number, and if nothing is marked
external Merge is preferred.
Let’s look at a straightforward example. In (17a), the Agent will be
marked 1 and the Theme 2, so the mapping is as predicted by the
numbering. In (17b), like has an Experiencer and a Subject Matter. The
former is not given a number, since it is mixed, but the latter is
marked by 2. The Experiencer is therefore free to merge later and to
become the grammatical subject, whereas the Subject Matter has to be
in a lower position, i.e. merged first.
Example (17c) is the most complex of the three, since it involves the
alternating psych-verbs discussed in (11a) and (12a). When [+c] and [–c,
+m] appear, the result will be a Causer followed by an Experiencer, as
in (11a). When [–c, +m] and [–m] occur, the Experiencer will be fol-
lowed by Subject Matter, as in (12a). The mapping in (11a) follows
because the Causer is marked for later Merge, and the Experiencer is
thus lower. In (12a), we have a Subject Matter ([–m]) which is first
merged, and the Experiencer (the mixed cluster) will be free to
merge later.
Argument structure 81
Reinhart crucially assumes an optional [–m] in (17c), although all
three cannot be chosen at the same time, as (18) shows, where the
bolded nouns are connected to the theta-roles underneath.
(18) *That earthquake worried me about the house.
[+c] [–c, +m] [–m]
To solve this incompatibility problem, Marelj (2002) invokes an
Identity Constraint that bars identical theta-roles. For the combina-
tions in (17c), she argues that the [+c] and [–c, +m] are distinct in the [c]-
value, and therefore (11a) is grammatical. The [+c] and [–m] are not
distinct, however, and that rules out (18). This non-distinctness
between [+c] and [–m] is also the reason that worry cannot have a
Cause and Subject Matter as its roles, as (19) shows.
(19) *The wind worried the house.
[+c] [–m]
In conclusion, theta-roles are one way of representing argument struc-
ture, and Reinhart’s version is the most current instantiation. I person-
ally like the binary way of marking the theta-roles, since they have a
simple conceptual basis, namely cause for change for [+c] and mental
contribution for [+m]. To be as clear as possible, I will use both the
theta-roles and the features in the remainder of the book. The intu-
ition behind Reinhart’s mapping that [+c] and [+m] are higher than [–c]
and [–m] is sound and similar to that of the Thematic Hierarchy in (13).
I’ll end with a speculation as to the origin of the mapping of seman-
tic roles onto syntactic positions. The Hierarchy and the UTAH con-
stitute a principle of the faculty of language. Baker (1997) sees the
UTAH as part of the C-I interface, and that would make it a “third
factor.” If we assume animacy is important semantically, i.e. part of
the pre-linguistic stage, we could say that the Hierarchy is the gram-
maticalization of semantic animacy, i.e. an exaptation of the semantic
animacy hierarchy to the Narrow Syntax.
3.1.3 The vP nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
The theta-approach to argument structure faces a challenge because
many factors outside the choice of the verb affect argument structure.
The aspect of a sentence, its polarity (affirmative or negative), and
individuation of the object affect the argument and event structure as
well (as indicated in Table 3.1). The crucial question is which deter-
mines which: Does the verb determine which aspect appears, or does
the aspect determine the type of verb? In the generative model,
Parsons (1990) and Pietroski (2007) have tried to minimize the role
82 T H E V P-L A Y E R
of the lexical verb in determining its arguments, and Hale and Keyser
(1993; 2002) and Borer (2005a,b) advocate looking at the verb’s sur-
rounding shell, and that’s what we’ll do in this section.
In Chapters 1 and 2, we have seen a basic vP-shell. It initially was
introduced to accommodate the three arguments of a ditransitive
verb, and we’ll see more on ditransitives in Section 3.4. The vP-shell
also represents causative structures very well, as we’ll see in
Section 3.3. Since Hale and Keyser (1993; 2002) it has been used to
read off the semantic roles at the C- I interface.
Let’s look at one possible vP-shell, namely the structure in (20) with
a causative verb roll as its core. It is based on ideas by Hale and Keyser
(1993; 2002), Tenny (1994), Harley (1995), Pylkkänen (2008),
Ramchand (2008), and many others.
(20) vP
CAUSE
DP v’
She
v ASPP PROCESS
rolled
DP ASP’
the balls
ASP VP
RESULT
DP
the balls
rolled
V’
V AP/PP
down the hill
The vP-shell in (20) has three layers representing the event: a Causer/
initiator of the action or result (the vP), a process of the action (the
ASPP), and the state or result (the VP).
Folli and Harley (2007) suggest three “flavors” of light verbs to
introduce arguments. Depending on the light verb chosen, a different
argument appears: The light verb DO introduces an Agent, whereas the
light verb CAUSE introduces a Causer, as in (20). Pylkkänen (2008: 7–8)
argues that non-core arguments, i.e. everything except the Theme, are
introduced by (seven) functional heads, which she takes “to belong to
Argument structure 83
a universal inventory of functional elements from which a particular
language must select.” Having each light verb (v and ASP in (20))
responsible for the introduction of an argument would mean that all
arguments are in specifier position except the arguments of the lexical
verb, where there could be an argument in the specifier and one in the
complement position, as shown in (20).
The projectionist approach uses the UTAH to ensure that the order
of the arguments is correct. The vP-shell approach is one where the
child learning the language will have to decide not only on the num-
ber of functional heads but also on their order. For most construction-
ists, the order is a given, and it is therefore a Cartographic approach,
even though it is not often put that way. Borer (2005b: 11) assumes
that “the properties of functional structure are innate and universal”
and that “the order of functional nodes [is] a syntactic given.”
As for ASPP in (20), it is not clear to me whether or not the English
tree includes this. Definiteness on objects and perfective on verbs does
not result in a different position or morphology; we will be using the
ASPP when we discuss phrasal verbs, so I will assume it in (20) as well.
The vP-shell accommodates aspect and head positions for the verb
to move to. We need both the vP and the lexical information, as
Hale and Keyser (2002: 1) suggest. The reason we can’t do without
the lexical information is that there are verbs that cannot be transi-
tivized, e.g. arrive in (21) and bloom in (22). This is due to the nature of
these verbs, i.e. their conceptual structure that is marked in the
lexicon by means of the role [–c,–m].
(21) *I arrived the bus.
(22) *The sun bloomed the sunflowers.
The event of arriving and blooming is internally motivated, unlike
events such as boiling and melting that are initiated from the outside.
Another reason that we need an expanded VP is that the inclusion of
a certain type of functional head in the vP changes the argument
structure and valency of the construction. A good example from
Modern English is hard to give, but in Old English (and other lan-
guages) examples abound. For instance, as (23) shows in general and
(24) in detail, the addition of ge- renders an intransitive verb transitive.
(23) ærnan ‘to run’ geærnan ‘to reach’
feran ‘to go’ geferan ‘to reach’
gan ‘to go’ gegan ‘to overrun, subdue’
hyran ‘to hear’ gehyran ‘to learn about’
restan ‘to rest’ gerestan ‘to give rest’
84 T H E V P-L A Y E R
winnan ‘to labor, toil’ gewinnan ‘to gain, conquer’
wadan ‘to go’ gewadan ‘to traverse’
(24) ða ferdon þa Pihtas. and geferdon þis land norþanweard
Then went the Picts and entered this land northward.
(Preface Peterborough Chronicle)
Using the vP-shell, one can argue that the functional head ASP deter-
mines that a Theme is involved in events that it is part of. There are a
number of ways to represent this. Following the spirit of Tenny (1994),
I have measure features in ASP that are responsible for the affected-
ness of the Theme.
(25) ASPP
DP ASP’
D N ASP VP
þis land ge-
[i-affected] [u-measure] V √fer-
fer-
In (25), there is a light verb ge- that is responsible for adding a Theme
theta-role.
Modern English does add results to activity verbs, such as sneeze
and lecture in (26a) and (27a), and this too is probably determined by
the vP-shell: when there is a result, there has to be a Theme, as (26b)
and (27b) show.
(26) a. Maybe he sneezed it off the hinges and that was why it fell out of the sky.
(Google)
b. *He sneezed it.
(27) a. and they talked themselves to sleep.
(COCA 2007 Fiction)
b. *They talked themselves/her.
In addition, Rappaport Hovav and Levin (1998: 97) show that man-
ner verbs such as sweep, whistle, and run have many possibilities that
can’t all be listed in the lexicon, as exemplified for sweep.
(28) a. Terry swept.
b. Terry swept the floor.
c. Terry swept the crumbs into the corner.
d. Terry swept the leaves off the sidewalk.
e. Terry swept the floor clean.
Argument structure 85
Assume therefore that the lexical entries for roll and melt minimally
have a Theme, a [–c,–m], connected to them, but that it has an optional
[+c] connected to it. Verbs such as arrive and bloom only have the [–c,–m]
possibility. Many languages have additional heads that add
arguments.
In short, the conceptual structure of the verb and the arguments
surrounding it are both necessary. I’ll therefore use a tree that has
both and that is agnostic as to which determines which.
3 . 2 U N A C C U S AT IV E A N D U N E R G A T I V E V E R B S
In this section, we examine the theta-roles and vP-shell of unaccusa-
tive and unergative verbs. Because many unaccusative verbs can be
causativized, we’ll discuss that as well before going into causatives
more deeply in Section 3.3.
Perlmutter (1978) makes the important distinction between intran-
sitives that have come to be called unergative and those that have
come to be called unaccusative (also known as change-of-state verbs).
Unergative verbs have Agents, usually animate, and unaccusative
verbs have Themes, animate or inanimate. The use with the Agent-
compatible adverb deliberately in (29) shows this difference.
(29) a. She deliberately smiled/coughed.
Agent [+c, +m]
b. *The ice deliberately melted/broke.
Theme [–c, –m]
Sorace (2000: 879) puts the distinction in this way: “[t]he single argu-
ment of an unaccusative verb is syntactically equivalent to the direct
object of a transitive verb, whereas the single argument of an unerga-
tive verb is syntactically equivalent to the subject of a transitive verb.”
Typical unergatives involve willed, volitional, controlled acts, i.e. with
an Agent central; typical unaccusatives involve change of location/
state. As Rosen (1984), Sorace (2000), and others make clear, this
distinction is not a binary one but a continuum.
Some differences between these verbs are provided in Table 3.2. As
for (a), the theta-role can be tested through adverbs, as in (29). As for
(b), since unergative verbs have an Agent, they can easily be transitiv-
ized, as in (30), with a cognate object; unaccusative verbs cannot be
transitivized, as (31) shows, except those that participate in the caus-
ative alternation, as we’ll see. The reason is that unaccusatives already
have a Theme.
86 T H E V P-L A Y E R
(30) I sneezed a good sneeze.
(31) a. *The bus arrived me.
b. *The bus arrived a perfect stop.
Characteristics (c) to (f) in Table 3.2 are language-specific. I will just
mention them here without critical comment (see e.g. Rosen 1984
and Sorace 2000 for critiques). Characteristic (c) depends on the -er
suffix in English being used to nominalize unergative verbs with
agents such as swimmer, sneezer, and even cougher, but never arriver
and comer.
As for (d), in many Germanic and Romance languages, the choice of
the perfect auxiliary depends on the type of verb. Thus, in Italian,
French, Dutch, and German, the auxiliary have is used when an Agent
is involved with transitives and unergatives and be when a Theme is
involved with unaccusatives. An example of such auxiliary selection
from Dutch is given in (32).
(32) a. Hij heeft gezwommen Dutch
‘He has swum.’
b. Hij is gekomen
he is arrived
‘He has arrived.’
English and Spanish used to select have/haber and be/estar this way
too but have lost it. Using a VP-shell, where functional categories
are connected to certain theta-roles, would account for the connection
of the auxiliary hebben ‘have’ in (32a) to an Agent. See Kayne (1993)
for more.
The impersonal passive mentioned as (e) can be seen in (33). It is
typically possible with unergatives but not with unaccusatives.
Table 3.2 Characteristics of unergative and unaccusative verbs in English
Unergative (Agent argument) Unaccusative (Theme argument)
a. deliberately is ok
and the argument is human/animate
deliberately is not ok
and argument can be +/–animate
b. a Theme can be added no Theme can be added
c. V+er *V+er
d. have + perfect participle be + perfect participle
e. *impersonal passive impersonal passive (Dutch)
f. no genitive of negation genitive of negation (Russian)
Unaccusative and unergative verbs 87
(33) a. Er werd gezwommen Dutch
there became swum
‘There was swimming.’
b. *Er werd aangekomen
there became arrived
‘There was arriving.’
The reason for this difference is that the Agent in (33a) can be lost
(demoted) in a passive but not the Theme in (33b).
There are other differences, but the last one that I’ll mention is the
genitive case in Russian, optionally present on objects in negative
transitive sentences. This genitive can also occur with unaccusative
Themes, as (34a) shows, but not with unergative Agents, as (34b)
shows.
(34) a. Ne rasstajalo ni odnoj snežink-I Russian
not melted no single.GEN.S snowflake-GEN.S
‘Not a single snowflake melted.’
b. *Nikak-ix devoček ne tancevalo
no-GEN.P girl.GEN.P not danced
‘No girls danced.’ (from Babyonyshev et al. 2001: 12)
The position of the Theme and Agent in (34) is irrelevant. The prever-
bal unaccusative in (35a) is still grammatical, and the postverbal
unergative in (35b) is still ungrammatical.
(35) a. ni odnoj snezink-I ne rasstajalo Russian
No single. GEN.S snow-GEN.S not melted
‘Not a single snowflake melted.’
b. *vcera ne tancevalo nikak-ix devocek
yesterday not danced no-GEN.P girl.GEN.P
‘No girls danced yesterday.’ (Olena Tsurska, p.c.)
Table 3.3 provides a list of unergative and unaccusative verbs, with
the latter subdivided into those that can alternate between intransi-
tives and causatives, a point we come back to in Section 3.3.
As to the structure, with unaccusative verbs the VP is crucial, with a
Theme and Result as in (36), with the tree in (37).
(36) It broke into two pieces.
(37) VP
It V’
V PP
broke
into two pieces
88 T H E V P-L A Y E R
To the VP-Layer in (37), a Causer can be added, in which case a v and vP
appear, as in (38), the tree for (39). The little v introducing the Causer
can be seen as an empty light verb with the meaning of ‘make.’
(38)
vP
They v’
v VP
it V’
V PP
broke
into two pieces
(39) They broke it into two pieces.
This shows that certain unaccusatives can be causativized, not true
with unergatives in most languages.
Many alternating unaccusatives are de-adjectival, e.g. redden, thicken,
widen, open, as Tables 3.4 and 3.5 show. The possible reason for this is
that the adjective represents the result and incorporates from the AP
to the V. A tree for this is given in (40), adapted from Hale and Keyser
(2002: 31).
Table 3.3 Examples of unergative and unaccusative verbs in English
Unergative Unaccusative
bicycle, burp, cough, crawl, cry,
dance, daydream, frown, grin, hop,
jog, kneel, laugh, limp, resign, run,
scream, shout, smile, swim, speak,
sneeze, sleep, talk, walk, work, yell
Alternating: begin, burn, decrease,
drop, fall, freeze, grow, increase,
melt, reduce, stop, spread, widen
Non-alternating: appear, arise,
arrive, come, depart, emerge, ensue,
exist, follow, occur,
remain, sit
Unaccusative and unergative verbs 89
(40) vP
They v’
v VP
it V’
V AP
-en wide
Unergatives are frequently denominal, so we could argue, as in
Hale and Keyser (2002: 63), that there is a VP with the N incorporated
into the V and moving to v to merge with an Agent DP, e.g. (41) with a
structure as in (42). This light verb has the meaning of ‘do’ (as argued
in Folli and Harley 2007 and mentioned above).
Table 3.4 The causative suffix -en for adjective–verb pairs (from Levin and
Rappaport Hovav 1995: 96)
awaken, blacken, brighten, broaden, cheapen, coarsen, dampen, darken,
deafen, deepen, fasten, fatten, flatten, freshen, frighten, gladden, harden,
hasten, hearten, heighten, lengthen, lessen, lighten, loosen, madden,
moisten, neaten, quicken, quieten, redden, ripen, roughen, sadden,
sharpen, shorten, sicken, slacken, smarten, soften, stiffen, straighten,
strengthen, sweeten, tauten, tighten, toughen, waken, weaken, whiten,
widen, worsen
Table 3.5 A zero-affix with adjective–verb pairs (from Levin and Rappaport
Hovav 1995: 95)
brown, clean, clear, cool, crisp, dim, dirty, dry, dull, empty, even, firm, level,
loose, mellow, muddy, narrow, open, pale, quiet, round, shut, slack, slim,
slow, smooth, sober, sour, steady, tame, tan, tense, thin, warm, yellow
90 T H E V P-L A Y E R
(41) They laughed.
(42) vP
They v’
v VP
V N
laugh
A number of linguists, including Chomsky, use v* for verbs with an Agent
andv forverbswithonlyaTheme.In(37)above,IsuggestedthereisnovP-
Layerwithunaccusativeverbs;Chomskyassumesthereisadefectiveone,
marked as v. I will not mark the difference between v and v* in this book.
In sentences with transitive verbs, the Theme (externally) merges
with the V (order doesn’t matter before spell-out, and I have merged it
on the left). If the action is telic and the object definite, the Theme will
(internally) merge with the V that has internally merged with ASP.
After a Merge with v and the Agent DP, the vP is complete, as in (43),
with a tree as in (44).
(43) They ate the apples.
(44) vP
DP v’
They
v ASPP
DP ASP’
the apples
the apples
ASP VP
DP V
ate
In this section, I have reviewed the well-known distinction between
unaccusatives and unergatives. Unaccusatives can be causativized if
Unaccusative and unergative verbs 91
they are compatible with being externally caused. We’ll turn to caus-
atives next.
3 . 3 T H E C A U S A T IV E
Causatives were among the first to be used in a vP-shell and are a
perfect fit for it, as we saw in (22) of Chapter 1. In most languages
(English included), causatives can be derived from unaccusatives
(although some people derive unaccusatives from causatives).
Verbs, such as roll and burn, that can be accompanied by a Theme, as
in (45a), or by a Theme and an Agent, as in (45b), are called labile
verbs. Many causatives in English are labile.
(45) a. The ball rolled down the hill.
Theme
b. I rolled the ball down the hill
Agent Theme
An additional light verb can be added, as in (46).
(46) I made him roll the ball.
Causer Agent Theme
In the literature, (45a) is referred to as anti-causative or inchoative
(change of state), (45b) and (46) as causative. Unaccusatives often
have the possibility to be causative, as in (45b). However, there are
those who don’t typically have that possibility (arrive, appear, bloom), as
was mentioned.
Unergative verbs, with just an Agent, cannot be causativized except
when the light verb make is added. This is shown in (47ab) and holds in
most languages. Note that they do appear with cognate objects, as in
(47c), usually to express aspect.
(47) a. *I laughed my neighbor.
b. I made my neighbor laugh.
c. he laughed the light laugh that’s not about something funny.
(COCA 2002 Fiction)
As Hale and Keyser (2002) show, many other languages have an incho-
ative causative alternation, as in (45ab), and similar restrictions,
although English is more wont to use labile verbs.
Haspelmath (1993) looks at thirty-one alternating verbs, given in
Table 3.6, and sees a split between spontaneous action and externally
caused action. The ranking is based on percentages of causativizing
strategies in the different languages. Boil, for instance, is typically
92 T H E V P-L A Y E R
intransitive and is causativized in 96 percent of the languages,
whereas split is only causativized in 4 percent (these figures are from
Cysouw 2008: 382).
That boil prefers causativization is shown in the history of English.
The first use of boil in English is as an intransitive; its first transitive
use has a light verb, as in (48).
(48) þei filled a leed of picche and oile / And fast duden hit to boile
they filled a kettle of pitch and oil and fast made it to boil
‘they filled a . . . of pitch and oil and made it boil fast.’
(1300 Cursor Mundi 11886 (Trinity), from the OED)
Haspelmath formulates the universal in (49) that describes the differ-
ence between the verbs.
(49) Verbs of the “freeze”-type tend to be transitivizing whereas
verbs of the “break”-type tend to be detransitivizing.
There is another set of internally caused events that resist causativiza-
tion. They are verbs such as flower, bloom, and blossom, as shown in (50).
(50) a. The saguaro bloomed.
b. *The sun bloomed the saguaro.
These verbs are restricted to a [–c,–m] Theme argument and are not
compatible with a [+c] Causer augmentation. Similarly, certain verbs
tend not to be intransitive, as (51) shows.
(51) a. The knife cut the cloth.
b. *The cloth cut.
Haspelmath’s (1993: 94) explanation for the data in (51) is as follows:
“A verb meaning that refers to a change of state . . . may appear in an
inchoative/causative alternation unless the verb contains Agent-
oriented meaning components or other highly specific meaning
components that make the spontaneous occurrence of the event
Table 3.6 Alternating verbs in Haspelmath (1993: 97, 104)
Spontaneous, or freeze-type:
boil, freeze, dry, wake up, go/put out, sink, learn/teach, melt, stop, turn,
dissolve, burn, destroy, fill, finish
Outside force, or break-type:
begin, spread, roll, develop, get lost/lose, rise/raise, improve, rock, connect,
change, gather, open, break, close, split, die/kill
The causative 93
extremely unlikely.” So, cut has as part of its meaning the use of
scissors/knife and is therefore agentive. Thus, semantic properties of
verbs are crucially important to determining an event.
Morphologically, causatives can be divided into lexical (e.g. kill),
synthetic (e.g. soften), and analytic (make) causatives. I’ll consider labile
verbs (e.g. break) as morphologically derived via a zero-morpheme. The
alternation between intransitive and causative for these types is given
in (52) to (54).
(52) He died – The disease killed him.
(53) a. It broke – The wind broke it. (= labile)
b. It softened – The washer softened it.
(54) He laughed – I made him laugh.
Lexical causatives bring about direct causation that can be seen by
comparing (55) with an analytic causative in (56).
(55) The disease killed him.
(56) The disease caused him to die.
The reason for that is that in (55) there is one TP and one event,
whereas in (56) there are two events, indicated by the marker to.
In conclusion, (lexical and synthetic) causatives are interesting in
that they fit the vP-shell but show that inherent semantic properties
determine the argument alternations. Verbs such as freeze have a
lexical representation with a [–c,–m] argument and may have a little
v with a [+c] Causer. Verbs such as arrive just have [–c,–m] Theme, and
those like split have [+c] Causer, [–c,–m] Theme.
3 . 4 D I T R A N S I T I V E S
Ditransitives can be defined in terms of semantic roles, namely as
verbs that have an Agent, Theme, and Goal (or Recipient). The gram-
matical functions of these arguments are subject, and direct and
indirect object. In English, these verbs show an alternation between
two DP objects and a DP and PP set. Two approaches to this alternation
are given. First, an analysis is given that derives one from the other,
and then an alternative is discussed whereby the two options are base
generated.
94 T H E V P-L A Y E R
3.4.1 The ditransitive alternation nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Ditransitive verbs have three arguments. In English, they occur either
as (57a) or (57b) with the supposed theta-roles marked.
(57) a. I gave Louise the article. =DP DP
Agent Goal Theme
[+c,+m] [–c] [–c,–m]
b. I gave the article to Louise. =DP PP
Agent Theme Goal
[+c,+m] [–c,–m] [–c]
Right away, a problem for a Thematic Hierarchy appears: How can the
Goal be higher than the Theme in the one and the Theme higher than
the Goal in the other? One answer is that one derives from the other
through movement, and that the UTAH works on the base structure,
to be discussed in Section 4.2; the other answer is that there are
different theta-roles in (57ab), to be discussed in Section 4.3. First a
little more on the alternation.
All three nominals are arguments in (57ab) because they are obliga-
tory, as the awkward (58) shows, where give appears with only two
arguments.
(58) a. #I gave Louise.
b. #I gave the article.
The sentences in (58) would be grammatical only under very specific
pragmatic circumstances, e.g. if someone asks if you are going to give
money to charity, you could say “I gave Doctors without Borders,” and
if they know you are giving to the Salvation Army, you could answer “I
gave furniture.” (58) could only occur as cases of direct and indirect
object pro-drop.
Other evidence that Louise and the article are arguments is that they
both can be passivized, e.g. in (59) and (60). In some varieties of
English, (61) is grammatical as well.
(59) Louise was given the article.
(60) The article was given to Louise.
(61) The article was given Louise.
Among the ditransitive verbs, there are very clear instances, such as
give, and less obvious ones, such as buy. Table 3.7 provides examples of
verbs that never have three arguments, verbs that typically do, and
verbs that optionally do.
Ditransitives 95
It is often argued that “original English” words, e.g. give, show, and
teach, can have DP DP (as well as DP PP), but that verbs that are
borrowed from French or Latin can’t have two DPs, e.g. donate and
narrate. There are also a few verbs that have only the double DP pattern
of (57a), e.g. owe, which verb is of course “original” to English.
As mentioned, there are basically two kinds of analysis for (57ab).
Some people argue that one of the two is basic and the other derived.
Others argue that the two patterns have different underlying struc-
tures with different theta-roles. Larson (1988) and Baker (1997) argue
that the dative alternation is a result of movement and that (57a) is
derived from (57b), whereas Aoun and Li (1989) argue that (57b) is
derived from (57a) in English. Oehrle (1976) believes the two are base
generated separately. Arguments can be presented for all of these. In
Section 3.4.2, I present the analysis that seems the most widely accep-
ted if we assume one derives from the other and, in Section 3.4.3, there
is some discussion on having two separate lexical entries.
3.4.2 Larson’s tree and Baker’s changes to it nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Adapting an analysis by Chomsky (1955), Larson (1988: 342) proposes
the structure as in (62), where I have kept Larson’s notation.
(62) VP
Spec V’ V’
V VP
e
NP V’
a letter V PP
send
to Mary
Table 3.7 Verbs with direct and indirect objects (from van Gelderen 2010: 70)
With only
direct
objects
With direct and mostly
obligatory indirect objects
With direct and less
obligatory indirect objects
see, eat,
love, hit,
hear
give, teach, offer, tell, show, ask,
provide, send, hand, promise,
grant, award, begrudge, mail,
throw
buy, bring, bake, read, pay,
build, cook, knit, prepare,
earn
96 T H E V P-L A Y E R
In (62), the verb send moves to the higher V to be able to assign case
to a letter. Evidence for this movement provided by Larson is that
the grammaticality of (63a) receives a straightforward analysis as
the conjunction of the lower VP (which I think is easier to see
in (63b)).
(63) a. John sent [a letter to Mary] and [a book to Sue]. (Larson 1988: 345)
b. John sent [a letter sent to Mary] and [a book sent to Sue].
This analysis of the double verb structure is still very accepted.
However, Larson’s derivation of (64), the double object construc-
tion, is quite dated. I’ll provide it here but will then suggest an
alternative.
(64) VP
Spec V’ V’
V VP
e
NP
V’
V’
NP
V NP a letter
send Mary
Larson argues that (64) is derived from (62) in the same way a passive
is. The case to the indirect object is absorbed (hence no to) as well as
the theta-role of the direct object a letter (hence its adjunct status). The
indirect object Mary moves to the higher NP position and the verb send
to the higher V to assign case to Mary. Case assignment to a letter is
done by the reanalysis of the lower V’ as a V which can then assign case
to a letter.
An alternative for (64) is provided by Baker (1997), who agrees with
Larson that the indirect object moves to a higher position. For Baker
this is the specifier of an inner Aspect Phrase, and the preposition to
incorporates into the verb, as indicated in (65).
Ditransitives 97
(65) VP
They V’
V ASPP
Mary
VP
books
gave+to
gave+to
gave+to
to Mary
V’
V PP
ASP’
ASP
This has the advantage (not mentioned by Baker) that the object in
Spec ASPP is predicted to be affected, and this is correct, as the differ-
ence between (66) and (67) shows.
(66) Ivy taught James Chinese.
(67) Ivy taught Chinese to James.
In (66), James actually learns some Chinese, but in (67) he probably did
not. The case marking of Mary in (65) is still not terribly satisfying, and
it also is not clear why to incorporates into the verb.
In closing Section 3.4.2, the ditransitive alternation can be accounted
for by assuming one underlying structure, as in (62). The analysis for
the DP PP-complements is straightforward, but the one for the DP
DP-complements is not. We now turn to an alternative account.
3.4.3 Different structures nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
There is a second way to account for the ditransitive alternation, one
that was originally suggested in Oehrle (1976). With some verbs, e.g.
send and teach, there is a meaning difference between the DP DP and DP
PP constructions, as (66) and (67) above show in terms of the affected-
ness of the Goal with the verb teach. Another such instance is shown
for the verb send in (68). The DP PP version is grammatical, but the DP
DP one is not, because Phoenix is marked as more affected than a city
can be.
98 T H E V P-L A Y E R
(68) a. I sent a package to Phoenix.
b. *I sent Phoenix a package. (where Phoenix is the city)
Passivization is possible in (69ab) but not in (69c). This suggests that
the city to which a package is sent is less of an argument than a person
to which something is sent.
(69) a. The package was sent to Phoenix.
b. Bill was sent a/the package.
c. *Phoenix was sent a/the package. (where Phoenix is the city)
Not all ditransitive verbs are susceptible to that distinction. For
instance, tell, give, and show do not really have different meanings
with DP PP- and DP DP-complements.
Based on verbs like teach and send, we could argue that the theta-
roles in (66) and (68b) are different from those in (67) and (68a). This is
indicated in (70). In (70a), the Goal is an Experiencer and therefore
higher than the Theme, whereas the Theme is higher than the Goal in
(70b). The two structures are represented for the verb teach.
(70) a. vP b. vP
Agent Agent v’
v’
[+c,+m] [+c,+m]
[−c,−m]
[−c,−m]
[+m]
Ivy Ivy
v ASPP v VP
Theme
Theme
taught taught
Exp ASP’
ASP
V’
V’
James VP Chinese V Goal
[−c]
to James
V
Chinese taught
taught
The Experiencer in (70a) could also remain a Goal, and the PP could be
a Location/Result. That too would satisfy the UTAH.
A very interesting proposal is given by Harley (2002: 33–34) in terms
of different flavors of P. In the DP PP version, Harley assumes an
abstract locative PLOC, and, in the DP DP one, she assumes an abstract
PHAVE.
Recently, work by McGinnis (2001; 2004), Jeong (2007), Pylkkänen
(2008), and others use an Applicative Phrase, ApplP, where some
Ditransitives 99
languages place the applicative higher and some lower, and some, like
English, can do both. I will not go into this here.
Sections 3.3 and 3.4 have used the vP-shell to accommodate the
causative and ditransitive verbs. We’ll turn to other possible uses of
the vP-shell, some briefly mentioned in Section 3.1.3.
3 . 5 AS P E C T , D E F I N I T E N E S S , A N D A D V E R B I A L S
In this section, I start by sketching the lexical aspect connected to the
meaning of a verb. I’ll make a brief connection to grammatical aspect,
although more on this will come in Chapters 4 and 6. I then look at
definiteness and VP adverbs.
3.5.1 Lexical aspect nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Aspect is concerned with how an action proceeds. The meaning of
certain predicates implies duration or change of state, i.e. aspect. It is
often put as a four-way distinction, e.g. in Vendler (1967) and Verkuyl
(1972) and others, and this is shown in Table 3.8. The two distinguish-
ing features are telicity and durativity.
This aspect is also known as Aktionsart, inner aspect, or situation
aspect, since it has to do with the meaning of the verb. As you can see,
the accomplishment verb is an activity verb with an object that ren-
ders the predicate telic. So, accomplishments depend on the construc-
tion, not just on the verb.
There are well-known diagnostics for these categories, and a few are
provided in (71).
(71) a. states are typically incompatible with the imperative
b. states are typically incompatible with the progressive
c. durative non-telic predicates can be modified by a for-NP adverbial
d. telic predicates can be modified by an in-NP adverbial
For instance, an (atelic non-durative) state, such as be tall, cannot occur
as a progressive or an imperative, as (72) shows, and cannot be
Table 3.8 Lexical aspect or Aktionsart
+durative –durative
+telic build a house (=accomplishment) recognize (=achievement)
–telic swim (=activity) know, be tall (=state)
100 T H E V P-L A Y E R
modified by either a for-NP or in-NP, as (73) and (74) show. Living in a
Harry Potter universe, these are all perfectly possible, of course.
(72) *You aren’t being tall. Be tall!
(73) *He was tall for an hour.
(74) *He was tall in an hour.
The diagnostics in (71) depend on the meaning of the verb, but this
meaning becomes evident by using outer aspect: Something outside of
the verb reinforces the Aktionsart, e.g. a certain PP or the progressive.
Let’s look at some examples. The verb look is durative and atelic, as
(75) shows, whereas the verb recognize in (76) is non-durative and telic.
(75) She was looking at the stars for a long time (*in an hour).
(76) She recognized the dog in a second (*for an hour).
Verbs have a lexical aspect that depends on their durativity and telic-
ity characteristics. This aspect is part of the verb’s meaning but is
relevant to the outer or grammatical aspect. I have represented the
interpretable affix -ing in (77) as the head of an Aspect Phrase. More on
this in Chapter 4.
(77) ASPP
ASP vP
be
[u-dur]
[i-dur]
[durative]
... ASP
ASP VP
-ing V
read
We’ll now turn to how the environment of the verb can coerce the
lexical aspect.
3.5.2 Aspect, deﬁniteness, Goal: coercion nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
There is a lot of evidence that aspect and argument structure are
related, and a huge literature exists on it. For instance, if an object
or goal is added, as between (78) and (79), the interpretation changes
Aspect, definiteness, and adverbials 101
from durative to telic. We use coercion to refer to how some verbs
change their lexical aspect.
(78) He ran for hours/*in five minutes. (durative, a-telic)
(79) a. He ran the mile in five minutes. (telic)
b. He ran to the store in five minutes. (telic)
If the object is indefinite, the telicity is less strong, as in (80), and if the
progressive is used, the same is true, as (81) shows.
(80) He ate (of) a turkey for hours. (durative, atelic)
(81) He was eating the turkey for hours. (durative, atelic)
While definite objects are just as frequent with the imperfective eating
as with the perfective ate (806 and 802 respectively in COCA), the
indefinite objects are more frequent with eating than with ate (1357
and 792 respectively).
How is the lexical aspect seen in Table 3.8 connected to theta-
structure? We can see how lexical aspect can be modified by the
construction around it. Telic verbs need a Goal, so transitive verbs or
verbs with a location are good candidates. Unaccusative verbs are
typically telic, since they are verbs of change of state, whereas uner-
gative verbs are often durative, although criticism of such a connec-
tion has been voiced. If the relation holds, we could argue in a very
projectionist way that the [–c,–m] Theme triggers the inclusion of a
Result in the tree and that the [+c,+m] Agent triggers the inclusion of a
durative ASPP.
We’ll discuss phrasal verbs next. Here, the connection between
definiteness and movement to the specifier of an ASPP is evident. In
English, the definite object of a phrasal verb often precedes the par-
ticle, e.g. down in (82a), whereas indefinites most often follow it. When
the object is a pronoun, it obligatorily precedes the particle.
(82) a. She turned it/that great job offer down.
b. She turned down a great job offer.
The particle indicates perfectivity, as (83) to (85) show, where the
particle is added for emphasis.
(83) Up to a half-ton of water per cord will evaporate out.
(COCA 1994 Mother Earth magazine).
(84) But it’s going to take some time for this process to issue this money out.
(COCA 2006 Fox, interview)
(85) Boost up his lecture fees. (COCA 2008 NBC Meet the Press)
102 T H E V P-L A Y E R
Indefinite objects are rarely placed before the particle, but definite
objects do appear after the particle. The reason for the latter is that
the word order with the verb and the particle together has become
more frequent in the recent period, according to Davies and
Gardner (2007), even with definite nominals. The use of pronomi-
nal objects, typical for the first order, with these verbs has gone
down too. That being said, we still see a huge difference between
definite and indefinite nouns for the phrasal verb turn down in
Table 3.9.
An account for the differences in position is complicated by the fact
that the particle can be a head as well as a full phrase. When the
adverb is a full phrase, it can be modified, e.g. by right as in (86a);
when it is the head of ASP, it cannot, as in (86b).
(86) a. He got that package right back.
b. *He got right back that package.
Because of this difference in modification, I will assume that down in
(82a) and back in (86a) are adverbials in the VP, but that down in (82b)
and back in (86b) are ASP heads.
In (87), a possible representation for the various positions is
given, with perfective aspect represented by means of an internal
ASP head. The order in (82a) is derived by merging the head away with
the VP and moving the verb put to (merging internally with) the ASP
and then the v. This is shown in (87a) and is most common with
indefinites.
To check perfective aspect, it is also possible for the nominal object
to move to the specifier of the ASPP (i.e. internally merge in that
position). This is typical for definite objects, as in (82b). In this case,
the adverb is in the VP, as shown in (87b).
If the object is pronominal, it can (internally) merge with the head
of the ASPP to check definiteness and perfective aspect, and the verb
will left-adjoin to it on its way to v. This is shown in (87c).
Table 3.9 The phrasal verb turn down and its objects in COCA
turn down obj turn obj down Total
obj is “a N/an N” 496/176 = 672 (99%) 7/0 = 7 (1%) 679
obj is “the N” 510 (70%) 216 (30%) 726
obj is it 7 (1.5%) 469 (98.5%) 476
Aspect, definiteness, and adverbials 103
(87) a. vP
v ASPP
ASP VP
[pf]
away V DP
put a/the N
b. vP
ASPP
ASP'
ASP VP
[pf]
DP V'
the N
V
V
AP
put away
c. vP
v ASPP
ASP VP
it
D V'
it
V AP
put away
In (87), I have left the [pf]-features unspecified for interpretable or
uninterpretable. These features depend on the status of the erstwhile
adverb away, something I ignore here.
We see that the vP-shell is very flexible. It is not only used to
accommodate various arguments but also definiteness and perfective
aspect. As a last point, we look at how to represent VP adverbials.
3.5.3 Adding VP adverbs nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Cinque’s (1999) Functional Hierarchy involves the entire clause,
and of the thirty-two functional categories, I take the lower nine
heads to clearly be part of the VP-shell: eight aspect heads and one
voice head, as in (88).
(88) VP adverbs as in Cinque
ASPgeneric/progressive ASPprospective ASPsg.completive(I)
characteristically almost completely
ASPpl.completive Voice ASPcelerative(II) ASPrepetetive(II)
tutto well fast/early again
ASPfrequentative(II) ASPsg.completive(II)
often completely (Cinque 1999: 106)
104 T H E V P-L A Y E R
Haumann (2007) modifies this and argues for the following ten func-
tional categories, many of which are of course aspectual.
(89) VP adverbs as in Haumann
SpaceP > AgentP > DomainP > MannerP > DegPerfP >
here deliberately universally loudly slightly
MeansP > FreqP > RepP > AspPcompl > RestP
manually rarely again completely again
(from Haumann 2007: 403)
Modern English adverbials in e.g. (90) and (91) of course show broad
patterns of agreement with the Functional Hierarchy. In (90), again is
the repetitive aspectual and completely the completive; in (91), rarely is
the frequentive and again the repetitive.
(90) until the Sun is once again completely uncovered.
(http://csep10.phys.utk.edu/astr161/lect/time/eclipses.html)
(91) I will rarely again be so privileged. (www.earthfoot.org/lit_zone/seals.htm)
There is some overlap between (88) and (89), e.g. again, often/rarely, and
completely, but there are some differences, suggesting the hierarchy is
still somewhat controversial. A second problem is that there are possi-
bly 4,000 adverbs in English alone, and there is obviously some leeway
as to which to assign a structural position. A third problem with the
hierarchies in (88) and (89) is that some combinations are frequently
units, even though they appear quite far apart in the hierarchies. For
instance, once again occurs as a combination 3,580 times in the BNC,
and this occurs about 10 percent of the time when once appears.
A fourth problem is an old one, and one I’ll spend some time on,
namely what to do with PP adverbials, as in (92).
(92) I read the book [in the garden] [for a while] [with pleasure].
Cinque (1999: 28) refers to these PPs as circumstantial adverbials
and considers them different from the adverbs in (88), in that they are
not rigidly ordered and can be in each other’s scope. He therefore
doesn’t include them in the hierarchy. Schweikert (2005: 132) propo-
ses a PP hierarchy, which I will adapt using a Dutch example.
(93) Ik denk dat ik [in alle waarschijnlijkheid] [in de ochtend] [met die twee]
Evidential Temporal Comitative
I think that I in all probability in the morning with those two
[vanuit Geertruidenberg] [via Utrecht] [naar Groningen] [met de auto] zal komen.
Source Path Goal Manner
from Geertruidenberg via Utrecht to Groningen with the car will come
‘I think I will probably go by car from Geertruidenberg to Groningen via
Utrecht with those two in the morning.’
Aspect, definiteness, and adverbials 105
The Dutch sentence is quite reasonable, but the English translation
is difficult to do. It is also likely that the evidential is not part of the VP
but outside, so I will ignore that below.
Note, however, as argued by Koster (1974; 2000), that there is a
mirror effect between PP adverbials that occur before the verb, as in
the Dutch original, and those that occur after the verb, as in the
English translation. I have provided all adverbials as PPs in (94) (except
the evidential). See if you agree with the order in the English (94).
(94) I think I’ll drive [by car] [from Geertruidenberg] [via Utrecht] [to Groningen]
Manner Source Path Goal
[with the two of them] [in the morning]
Comitative Temporal
The only PPs that are not the mirror of (93) are the Path and Goal PPs,
but I think this sequence has become fossilized in English.
If there exists an adverbial PP hierarchy, we’d probably have to take
either the Dutch or the English order as basic. If we consider scope
(with the temporal PP having high scope) and assume the LCA, the
Dutch PP-order in (93) is basic. The English order would have to be
derived by taking the VP and moving it before the Manner PP and then
taking this constituent and moving it before the Source, and so on.
The Dutch V-final order is a result of movement as well. I think there
are still a number of issues that haven’t been understood, so I will
refrain from a definite analysis.
In conclusion, the vP-shell accommodates the argument structure
as well as the aspect and definiteness. Adverbs appear in a hierarchy,
as in (88), and so do PPs, though it is harder to provide a structure for
the latter.
3 . 6 C R O S S - L I N G U I S T I C O B S E R V A T I O N S
A N D AC Q U I S I T I O N
The vP is the most cross-linguistically uniform layer because the argu-
ment structure of languages is similar. Most languages will express
Agents, Themes, Goals, have telic and atelic verbs, and affected and
non-affected arguments. The vP-shell can therefore be used across
languages. In Section 3.6.1, I focus on something that has been raised
in the typological literature, namely whether or not certain languages
have a particular basic valency. Languages do differ in causative and
ditransitive structures, and in how their aspect and definiteness is
106 T H E V P-L A Y E R
marked. Because this is important for argument structure, I’ll discuss
these issues briefly in Sections 3.6.2 and 3.6.3.
3.6.1 Basic valency nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Haspelmath (1993: 91–92) distinguishes causatives (C), anti-causatives
(A), and non-directives (labile L, equipollent E, and suppletive S),
where a C means that something is added to make a causative, as in
English laugh and make laugh; an A means something is added to
detransitivize, as in Russian katat’sja from katat ‘to roll’; an E means
we can’t tell which form is derived, as in Japanese atumaru and atumeru
‘gather’; an L that the same form is used, as in roll and roll; and an S if
the two forms have no relation to each other, as in die and kill. As
mentioned earlier, Haspelmath looks at thirty-one sets of verbs in
twenty-one languages; his findings for four languages are given in
Table 3.10.
The numbers in the table show that some languages have more
transitivizing morphology than detransitivizing. Nichols et al.’s
(2004) data for a slightly different set of languages similarly show
that augmented forms are the most frequent cross-linguistically and
throughout the lexicon. The inanimates in Haspelmath’s data (cf.
Table 3.6) can be divided into two types of verb and here the sponta-
neous ones are more causativizing. This particular fact must have to
do with the semantic features of the verb. I think Haspelmath’s and
Nichols et al.’s data show that languages do not have a basic valency
but that there are two cross-linguistic tendencies: causativizing and
the influence of verb semantics.
Can data from acquisition shed light on basic valency? Tomasello’s
(1992) data from an English-learning child between 1 and 2 years of
age show that verbs expressing outside force, such as open, are very
common (forty-seven instances of one-word and combinations), and
almost all of those express the [+c, +m] Theme, as in (95), with the [+c]
Causer implied; only three have an overt Causer, as in (96) to (98).
Table 3.10 Russian, German, English, and Indonesian (from Haspelmath
1993: 101)
A C E L S
Russian 23 0 5 0 3
German 15.5 1 4 9.5 1
English 2 0 1 25 3
Indonesian 0 14 17 0 0
Cross-linguistic observations and acquisition 107
(95) open door (Tomasello 1992: 333, T. 1;5.27)
(96) snake open (Tomasello 1992: 333, T. 1;6.21)
(97) daddy open daddy on daddy open this top (Tomasello 1992: 334, T. 1;7.22)
(98) watch me open doors (Tomasello 1992: 334, T. 1;7.30)
Some more explanation on (95) and (96) is perhaps needed. Tomasello’s
comments (1992) reveal that the child wants to open the door in (95), i.e.
the door is a Theme, and that it wants the keychain, the “snake,” to open
the door in (96), i.e. the snake is a Causer or instrument.
Close is a verb of the same type and is used sixteen times, many with
an it object, as in (99); again the Causer is mostly implied.
(99) Close it this door (Tomasello 1992: 334, T. 1;7.23)
Drop and break/broke(n) are also verbs that are more often externally
caused. The former appears seventeen times in the expected context,
as in (100). Break appears only three times, but all with causers
(implied), as in (101); broke(n) occurs eight times with a Theme.
(100) drop it ice (Tomasello 1992: 336, T. 1;7.13)
(101) Weezer break my mirror (Tomasello 1992: 337, T. 1;8.19)
These data confirm the causativizing tendency. If externally caused
ones occur with a Theme and not a Causer, the Theme seems to be
primary.
There are overgeneralizations of intransitives used transitively, as
in (102). These are very understandable if the child has the Theme as
basic and adds a Causer.
(102) How come you had a little trouble going it? (Bowerman 1974, C. 3:5)
Concluding, it is hard to argue that languages have a basic valency.
There are a few cross-linguistically frequent tendencies, and some that
depend on the semantics of the verb.
3.6.2 Causatives and ditransitives nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Causatives are present in all languages, as far as I know. As men-
tioned in Section 3.3, causatives can be lexical (e.g. kill), synthetic or
morphological (e.g. soften), and analytic (make). Comrie (1981: 160)
notes that “pure analytic causatives are relatively rare.”
Morphological causatives are much more common. For instance, in
Sanskrit, there is a suffix -ay, that makes khad- ‘to eat’ into khād-ay-
‘make eat,’ as in (103).
108 T H E V P-L A Y E R
(103) khād-ay-āmi
eat-CAUSE-1S
‘I feed.’
Old Germanic transitive verbs are often derived from intransitive
verbs by means of a -j- suffix. This suffix surfaces as -i- in Old English
and has, among other things, a fronting/Raising effect on the vowel.
This is the reason Modern English has a confusing set of alternations
left, e.g. fall and fell, sit and set, lie and lay, and rise and raise. English lost
the -i affix and instead has labile verbs with a zero-morpheme.
This preference for morphological causatives can even be seen in
analytic languages such as Cambodian, in which Haiman (2010: 58)
distinguishes four causative morphemes, an infix -am(n)-, and the
prefixes baN-, paN- (where the N indicates an assimilating nasal), and
p-. Examples are given in (104).
(104) a. ho: ‘flow’ bang-ho: ‘irrigate’
b. bat ‘disappear’ nam-bat ‘eliminate’ (Haiman 2010: 59)
Lexical causatives occur in all languages, and suppletive forms such as
die and kill are common.
I mentioned above that unaccusatives are the easiest to causativize,
and that is true across languages. Rice (2000: 171) shows that Navajo is
like English, but that the related Athabascan language Ahtna can
causativize unergatives as well. This is shown in (105), where the
affix ł- is the transitivizer; the English translation has to make use of
the analytic make.
(105) a. ghi-tsaex Ahtna
3-cry
‘He was crying.’
b. i-ghi -ł-tsaex
3–3-CAUSE-cry
‘He is making her cry.’ (Rice 2000: 173, from Kari 1990: 274)
Ditransitives have been defined as having Agent, Theme, and Goal
arguments, and, again, all languages have ways to express these three
arguments. Haspelmath (2010) distinguishes three types: the indirect
object one (the Theme is marked like a transitive Theme, but the Goal
is marked differently); the double object one (the Theme and Goal are
marked like the transitive object); and the secondary object construc-
tion (the Goal is marked like the transitive Theme, and the Theme is
marked differently).
English has both the indirect construction (the DP PP one) and the
double object construction (the DP DP one), as we’ve seen in (57b) and
Cross-linguistic observations and acquisition 109
(57a) above respectively. It is therefore of a fourth kind, namely mixed.
Languages that only have the indirect object type include Persian,
Sami, Yukaghir, and Slave, and those that only have the double object
one are Zulu, Wolof, Ket, and Lakhota. Chamorro has a secondary
object, where the indirect object i patgon ‘the child’ in (106a) has the
same marking as the direct object i kannastra ‘the basket’ in (106b).
Somali, Hausa, Ojibwa, and Ainu are other such languages.
(106) a. Ha na’i i patgon ni leche Chamorro
he.ERG give ABS child OBL milk
‘He gave the milk to the child.’
b. Ha tuge’ i kannastra
he.ERG weave ABS basket
‘He wove the basket.’
(Topping 1973: 241, 251, from Haspelmath 2010)
Haspelmath’s data are given in Table 3.11 and show that the indirect
object strategy is the most common.
3.6.3 Aspect and deﬁniteness nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Unlike English, many languages link aspect and definiteness by a
special morphological marking or syntactic position. In (20) above,
an ASP was included in the vP-shell, but I mentioned that there wasn’t
much evidence for a special position, except perhaps in the case of
phrasal verbs. In this section, we’ll see examples where certain objects
have special markings and positions, evidence for a separate ASP.
However, whether this ASPP is inside or outside the vP-shell is a
difficult question.
Perfective aspect in Russian is expressed through a verbal prefix,
ras-, as the perfective–imperfective alternation in (107) shows, and the
perfective also makes the object definite.
(107) a. On ras-kolo-l drova Russian
He PF-split-PST wood
‘He split the wood.’
Table 3.11 The verb ‘give’ (from Haspelmath 2010)
Indirect object construction 189
Double object construction 83
Secondary object construction 66
Mixed 40
Total 378
110 T H E V P-L A Y E R
b. On kolo-l drova
he split-PST wood
‘He was splitting wood.’ (from Leiss 2000: 12)
Aspect and definiteness both indicate how the action/event and the
nominal are measured and seen as complete or incomplete.
In other languages, the definite object occupies a special position
that is also associated with a specific aspectual interpretation. In
(108a), when the object dat boek ‘that book’ is inside the VP, either
the book was read completely or parts of it were. This would also be
the position of indefinite objects. In (108b), however, where the object
moves out of the VP (considering the adverb to indicate the left-
boundary of the VP), the book has been read completely a number of
times. In this position, an indefinite object would be ungrammatical.
(108) a. omdat ik vaak dat boek gelezen heb Dutch
Because I often that book read have
‘because I’ve read that book often.’
b. omdat ik dat boek vaak gelezen heb
because I that book often read have
The reason for the difference between these readings is that the DP in
(108b) moves to a higher position, where a certain aspect is checked
(as well as specificity and boundedness) and the action must be com-
plete. The DP inside the VP, as in (108a), on the other hand, can be
partitive.
In this section, I have pointed out a few cross-linguistic differences
regarding valency, valency-alternations, and aspect and definiteness.
They do not give a systematic cross-linguistic overview, of course.
3 . 7 CO N C L U S I O N A N D A T I E T O F E A T U R E S
In this chapter, we have considered how to represent the argument
structure of a sentence. One of the major questions posed in this book
is how a Minimalist derivation of the clause proceeds. As far as the
basic argument structure is concerned, this question becomes how
much we attribute to the lexical characteristics of the verb and how
much to the functional heads. Gruber (1965), Jackendoff (1972), and
Chomsky (1981), among others, are projectionist. The verb has theta-
roles, and these are projected onto the syntax. Hale and Keyser (1993),
Borer (1994; 2005a,b), and Harley (1995), among others, are construc-
tionist to varying degrees, where light verbs determine the argument
structure. Borer uses the terms Endo-skeletal for the projectionist and
Conclusion and a tie to features 111
Exo-skeletal for the constructionist approaches. A big issue with both
approaches is the mapping, the UTAH for the projectionist, and a
shell-Cartography for the constructionist approach.
Rather than select one of the two approaches, I have argued that
both factors are important: the verb itself and its surroundings, such
as aspect and definiteness. The evidence for the verb’s importance is
that certain verbs can never be transitive, e.g. arrive or laugh. In addi-
tion, we see cross-linguistically that such verbs as freeze have a differ-
ent argument structure from such verbs as break. The former (freeze) is
more often linked to one argument and the latter (break) to two argu-
ments, as argued for in Haspelmath. Evidence for the importance of
the surroundings has been given throughout, e.g. the role of aspect in
determining the argument structure. I have referred to this sometimes
as coercion.
A last point not yet discussed in the chapter is how the theta-roles
drive the derivation. As we’ve seen in Chapter 1, uninterpretable
features drive Internal Merge; it would be interesting if such features
could also be responsible for External Merge. I would like to suggest
here (in the spirit of Hornstein 1999) that the verb’s [+/–c] and [+/–m]
are uninterpretable and are probes looking for the nominals that have
the appropriate semantic/interpretable features. The reason I have not
brought it up in the text is that this suggestion is quite radical and
needs refinement. I will leave it for future work.
Keywords
Argument structure, event structure, theta-roles, vP, projectionist,
constructionist, unaccusative, unergative, transitive, causative, ditran-
sitive, valency, voice, mapping, definiteness, lexical and grammatical
aspect, telicity and durativity, coercion
D I S C U S S I O N P O I N T S
1. Put the following verbs in sentences and determine the theta-role of
each. Then, try to use Reinhart’s system. Are there problems you
encounter?
(1) see, ruin, watch
2. Draw trees for (2) to (3) and discuss the derivation.
(2) The leaves reddened.
(3) They sent packages to Haiti.
112 T H E V P-L A Y E R
3. Work by Schein (1993), Kratzer (1996), and others has suggested
that the Agent is not represented on the verb but is introduced by an
independent functional head, i.e. little v or Voice. Recently, similar
arguments have started to appear about the Theme, e.g. Bowers
(2010). Having read the chapter, can you come up with empirical
challenges for these positions?
4. Why can (English) unergatives not be used as causatives, e.g. *laugh a
baby, unlike the unaccusatives burn and boil? Why do unergatives
need make?
5. There is a locative alternation in English, exemplified in (4). How
would you account for this?
(4) a. I loaded the truck with hay.
b. I loaded hay onto the truck.
6. There are many types of causative. Discuss the difference between
direct and indirect causation, as in Shibatani and Pardeshi (2001).
7. Anne Walton-Ramirez reports that her daughter uttered (5). Can
you explain why?
(5) I can’t pick up you.
‘I can’t pick you up.’ (Layla, age 3)
8. Activity verbs that express manner are quite versatile in their
complement structure. For instance, as we’ve seen, sweep can have
(6a) to (6c).
(6) a. They swept.
b. They swept the floor.
c. They swept the crumbs off the floor into the yard.
Try to see if other verbs have these possibilities and come up with an
account.
9. In the chapter, I have suggested that the expletives it and there both
lack theta-roles. There is evidence that it has a pseudo theta-role
(e.g. Chomsky 1981). For instance, what would it mean if you could
reflexivize an expletive?
S UG G E S T I O N S F O R F U R T H E R R E A D I N G
Hale and Keyser (1993; 2002) were among the first to advocate the vP-shell
and to refine it. You might read them or Rappaport Hovav and Levin
(1998) for more on argument structure.
Pesetsky (1995) has more on psych-verbs, as does I. Landau (2012), and
Hale and Keyser (2002) write on locatum verbs. Malchukov et al.
(2010) write on the typology of ditransitives.
Suggestions for further reading 113
Postal (2010) shows how not all objects are equally affected and transitive
verbs are therefore not uniform. Read Tenny (1994; 2000) for more on
affectedness.
If you are intrigued about the use of [–m] and [+m], read Marelj (2002). If
you are interested in models that do not use theta-roles, read Bowers
(2010) on a complete eradication of theta-roles or Lohndal (2012).
For a view that Themes are acquired first, read Ryan (2012).
114 T H E V P-L A Y E R
4 The TP-Layer
This chapter examines the layer where tense, mood, and aspect, as
well as the grammatical functions of subject and object, are indicated.
Of the three layers, the TP-Layer is perhaps the one that shows the
most cross-linguistic variation, not only in TMA but also in agreement
and grammatical case. We’ve seen some of this variation in Chapter 2
when we discussed the finite clause.
Roles and functions can be marked by position or morphology. In
English, the grammatical roles are marked through their position and
through some agreement on the verb. Case on the noun can mark the
grammatical and semantic roles, but, because English lost most overt
case marking in its 1500-year history, case is hard to use as a criterion
for deciding the grammatical function.
In Section 4.1, we’ll look at how the TP was first introduced and then
justify the attempts to expand and restrict it. In Section 4.2, we’ll
describe a Cartographic approach to tense, mood, aspect involving
both auxiliaries and adverbials. In Section 4.3, we’ll look at the positions
of the subject and object and at displacement, mainly by discussing the
EPP. Section 4.4 deals with case and agreement. In Section 4.5, some
cross-linguistic observations are made. Section 4.6 is a conclusion that
revisits all the features of the TP-Layer needed in a probe-goal approach.
4 . 1 EX P A N D I N G T P
In this section, we’ll examine in depth the functional categories that
are included in the middle layer. We explore how this layer was
initially thought of as having INFL as its main component but is now
seen as being centered around T. We’ll discuss the phenomenon of
affix-hop and how features are relevant.
In Chapter 1, I have provided some background on how the TP
emerged from a 1950s structure with AUX (not shown) to an early
115
1980s structure with INFL, as in (1), to a mid 1980s tree that is in
accordance with X-bar in (2), to a late 1980s tree with an expanded
middle that splits INFL into T and AGR in (3).
(1) S
NP INFL VP (cf. Chomsky 1981)
(2) IP
Spec I’
I VP (cf. Chomsky 1986b)
(3)
AGRsP
Spec AGRs’
AGRs TP
Spec T’
T AGRoP
Spec AGRo’
AGRo VP
.... (cf. Chomsky 1995: 60)
The advantage of (3) is that each feature has its own position, and the
checking relation is between Spec and H. AGRs and AGRo are rejected
by Chomsky (1995: 355), however, because he claims there is no seman-
tic contribution and no empirical evidence for the AGR heads, i.e. there
is no language that has a particle or auxiliary expressing agreement.
116 T H E T P-L A Y E R
With AGR eliminated from the tree, the tree is reduced to TP, as in
(4), and of course CP, which is not included in (4). The Spec-Head
agreement of (3) is abandoned in (4) in favor of checking by a probe
with uninterpretable features in T (and also in v) looking down the
tree for a goal, indicated by an arrow.
(4) TP
Spec T’
T vP
[u-phi]
DP ...
[i-3][i-S]
Because agreement and nominative case are linked (at least in
English), the T probe in (4) is responsible for checking both case and
agreement and does the work that AGR and T had earlier done sepa-
rately. In (4), the EPP feature triggers the subject DP to move to the
specifier of the TP position rather than through last resort to check
case in a specifier position, as in earlier models. I haven’t shown this
movement of the subject in (4).
We know that (4) is not specific enough. There are other categories
connected to the middle layer: modal auxiliaries, the to-infinitive
marker, and perfect and progressive aspect. Tense is the grammat-
ical expression of time that can be thought of as points on a time
line, e.g. past precedes a point that is speech time. Aspect is the
expression of how the event progresses and if it has boundaries.
As we have seen in the previous chapter, aspect can be lexical or
grammatical, i.e. it can express duration or completion of the lexical
verb, or it can be made durative through external means, e.g. by the
progressive -ing marker. Mood relates to how the speaker under-
stands the event, how possible or likely s/he thinks it is likely to
occur, and if it occurs in our world (indicative) or in some other
world (subjunctive).
Tense, mood, and aspect are marked through adverbs, as in (5), or by
auxiliaries, as in (6), or by affixes, as in (7), or by preverbs/particles, as
in (8), from Old English.
Expanding TP 117
(5) I [possibly] saw him [quickly] [some time ago].
Mood aspect tense
(6) I [may] [have] seen him before.
mood tense + aspect
(7) I walk[ed] around.
tense
(8) leofes mannes lic eall for-swealg
dear man’s body all up-swallowed
aspect
‘He swallowed up the entire body.’ (Beowulf 2080)
I am listing the sequence of these elements as TMA, but nothing
hinges on that. There are other ordering possibilities, as (5) and (6)
show. Not all types of TMA markers are grammaticalized; the ones in
(5) are fairly lexical.
If we pay attention just to the auxiliary elements for now, we see
that English poses quite a challenge, having sentences such as (9).
(9) He might have be-en be-ing see-n (committing that crime).
modal perfect progressive passive
The phenomenon is known as affix-hop, because the affix belonging
to the auxiliary moves to the next verb. The modal needs an infinitive
to its right, the perfect a participle, the progressive an -ing, and the
passive a participle.
Chomsky (1957) accounts for sequences such as this by means of the
phrase structure rules in (10). The verb contains an AUX position and a
verb, and the AUX position minimally hase a T(ense).
(10) a. Verb → Aux + V
b. Aux → Tense (M) (have + en) (be + ing) (be + en)
(adapted from Chomsky 1957: 39)
If the auxiliaries are added to the phrase structure, a transforma-
tion accounts for the order, namely as in (11). The Af stands for any
of the affixes of tense and agreement (past, en, ing, s, etc.), and (11)
ensures that the affix will be attached to the verb or auxiliary
following it.
(11) Auxiliary transformation – obligatory
SD:X – Af – v – Y
SC:1 – 2 – 3 – 4 → 1 – 3 – 2# – 4
(where Af is any T or is en or ing; v is any M or V, or have or be; adapted from
Chomsky 1957: 113)
In the early 1980s, there is a debate triggered by an article by
Akmajian, Steele, and Wasow (1979) as to whether or not AUX exists
118 T H E T P-L A Y E R
as a designated category and what it includes. The argument is that
English has a special position where a modal or infinitival to are
situated, but that other languages might not. To, do, and modals also
occupy this AUX position but are in complementary distribution.
Akmajian, Steele and Wasow’s (1979: 22) structure is as in (12).
(12) S
AUX V3
V2
Modal V1
Bill could have be V NP
study Spanish
NP
They argue that each of the numbered Vs has a special set of character-
istics connected to it. For instance, V3
cannot form an imperative, but
V1
and V2
can, as (13) shows.
(13) a. *Have done your homework when I come home.
b. Be studying when I get home.
c. Study Spanish!
(adapted from Akmajian, Steele and Wasow’s 1979: 37)
This approach is remarkably “modern” and quite Cartographic.
In the Government and Binding approach (Chomsky 1981), the AUX
of (10a) and (12) is replaced by INFL, as in (1) above. Here, INFL can be
[+/– Tense], and if [+Tense], an AGR element appears that is “basically
nominal in character” and “identical to PRO” (Chomsky 1981: 52),
with person, number, and gender features. This AGR then becomes
responsible for assigning nominative case, and the emphasis shifts to
other duties of INFL. After Chomsky (1981, e.g. p. 140), not much is
said about auxiliaries and affix-hop (no entries in Chomsky 1986a,b or
1995 for either), and the focus is no longer on the auxiliaries but on the
position T and on verb movement to T (e.g. Chomsky 1995; Lasnik
1999). Thus, have and be move to T, but main verbs do not in English,
and this is attributed to the strength of the features in T.
There is nothing that stops us from adding the auxiliaries of (12),
however, and updating them through features. Using TMA, the tree
could be as in (14). Apart from tense in T (inherited from C), other
features marked in (9) are the mood and the aspect. I have also shown
the values of the uninterpretable features.
Expanding TP 119
(14)
CP
C TP
[i-ind]
[u-T: fut] Spec T’
T MP
[u-T: fut]
Spec M’
M ASPP
may
[u-mood: irr] ASP’
[i-fut]
ASP VP
have
[u-asp: RelT] she left
[i-irr] [i-RelT]
In (14), I have left out agreement and case marking, and the subject
has not moved to Spec of TP. I will add those features in Sections 4.3
and 4.4.
As mentioned, affix-hop in English describes the phenomenon that
modals have infinitives following them, the perfect auxiliary have has
a participle following it, and the progressive auxiliary be has a present
participle. In (14), I have represented this phenomenon as checking by
the functional head, e.g. have, directly with the lexical item, here left.
This means that the participle ending on left is responsible for the
(present) perfect meaning and the infinitival form of have for the
irrealis meaning.
I have followed Solà (1996: 227) and Haumann (2007) in using
Relative tense (RelT) to represent the present perfect. It expresses
that the event time precedes the reference time, as in a present or
past perfect, unlike in a simple present or past where the event
time and the reference time are the same. Anterior is an alterna-
tive term.
120 T H E T P-L A Y E R
There are other ways of representing affix-hop. Haumann (2007:
191) uses two functional heads, as in (15), to check the perfect and
the progressive (and the passive, but I haven’t shown that). The verb
complex in (13) is for have been swimming.
(15) TP
T RelT
RelT PerfP
have
Perf AuxP
-en
Aux ProgrP
be
Prog VP
-ing V
swim
Tree (15) is more Cartographic, whereas (14) claims features are cen-
tral. I prefer the minimalist character of (14).
Negatives in English also belong in the TP-Layer. We’ll add a NegP
which, in English, is below the TP, but will wait till Chapter 6 to examine
that question because negatives are relevant for all three layers. We’ll
turn next to a suggestion for a more elaborate TP-Layer.
4 . 2 CA R T O G RA P H Y O F T H E T P
Cinque’s (1999) classification of the various TMA heads is well known
and will first be outlined. The Hierarchy is more elaborate for the TP
than for the VP or CP, as (16) shows. Several problems with such an
elaborate hierarchy present themselves, and a more modified struc-
ture will be suggested.
Cinque’s (1999: 106) Hierarchy has thirty TMA heads distributed
throughout the sentence but concentrated in the TP (having eighteen
of the thirty). Mood is the highest category, modals and tense are in
the middle, and aspect is lowest. The distribution is four Mood, four
Cartography of the TP 121
Mod, three T, and eighteen ASP heads. Mood is in the CP (except for the
irrealis) and Mod is in the TP, and the ASP heads only involve gram-
matical (external) aspect, not lexical (internal). Voice, which I will
mainly ignore, is represented by the adverb well and on its own in
the middle of aspectual VP adverbs.
(16) The Universal Hierarchy of Clausal Functional Projections
[Moodspeech-act frankly
[Moodevaluative fortunately CP adverbs
[Moodevidential allegedly
[Modepistemic probably
[Tpast once
[Tfuture then
[Moodirrealis perhaps
[Modnecessity necessarily
[Modpossibility possibly
[ASPhabitual usually
[ASPrepetetive again
[ASPfrequentative(I) often TP adverbs
[Modvolitional intentionally
[ASPcelerative(I) quickly
[Tanterior already
[ASPterminative no longer
[ASPcontinuative still
[ASPperfect(?) always
[ASPretrospective just
[ASPproximative soon
[ASPdurative briefly
[ASPgeneric/progressive characteristically
[ASPprospective almost
[ASPsg.completive(I) completely
[ASPpl.completive tutto (Italian)
[Voice well VP adverbs
[ASPcelerative(II) fast/early
[ASPrepetetive(II) again
[ASPfrequentative(II) often
[ASPsg.completive(II) completely ]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]]
(Cinque 1999: 106)
A little later in the book (1999: 130), Cinque adds two Mod categories
under Mod-volitional, Mod-obligation, and Mod-ability, and the heads
of the ModPhrases accommodate the modals in his model. I have put a
few modals in, as shown in (17), but, as with some other categories, I
think it is fairly subjective and would have to be tested in languages
that can have multiple modals.
122 T H E T P-L A Y E R
(17) ModP
Mod-epis ModP
might
Mod-necc ModP
need
Mod-poss ModP
could
Mod-vol ModP
will
Mod-obl ModP
should
must Mod-abil
can
The adverbials in (16) are in the specifier positions. In addition, the
English auxiliaries would be in head positions, as we’ve seen before.
The tree in (18) represents (19), a sentence with a variety of adverbs
and auxiliaries but with M and ASP phrases unspecified for the flavor
of these in a Cinque-like sequence. The initial I guess might also be a
separate clause, but I have represented it as a CP adverb, but, for
reasons of space, have left C out.
(18) CP
CP TP
I guess I T'
T MP
[uT: fut]
perhaps M'
[epis]
M ASPP
might
[i-fut] again ASP'
[u-mood: irr] [repet]
ASP vP
be
[u-asp:dur] I stating the obvious
[i-irr] [i-dur]
Cartography of the TP 123
(19) I guess I might perhaps again be “stating the obvious” and I apologise to
FTers who feel annoyed by this.
(http://flyertalk.com/forum/archive/index.php/t-63529.html)
The features on the auxiliaries are as we’ve seen in (14) before. As for
the question if adverbials participate in feature checking, Laenzlinger
(2004: 208–209) argues their features are interpretable and checked by
Merge. That would mean the uninterpretable features in the head
would no longer be probes for the features lower down. Since this
issue is not clear to me, I have not marked them as [i-F] or [u-F] but as
semantic features.
Cinque’s categories are hard to decide on sometimes. For instance,
is probably evidential or epistemic? Is again repetitive or habitual, or
both? As I mentioned in the previous chapter, there are over 4,000
adverbs, and they could all be argued to need accommodation in the
Functional Hierarchy. Haumann (2007: 232) happens to have the same
eighteen as TP-adverbs as Cinque does, but the inclusion of others is
possible, e.g. sometimes and finally. With finally, one could argue it is in
the ASPterminative position, occupied by no longer in (16). However,
we can have both of those adverbs in a sentence, as (20) shows.
(20) when she finally no longer feels guilty (Google)
That indicates (16) would need to include another position.
We have two positions for again and often, and this doubling is
necessary since there are two meanings, one in the higher domain,
as in (21a) and (22a), and one in the lower domain, as in (21b) and (22b).
(21) a. He again opened the door. (means that he had opened it before)
b. He opened the door again. (means that the door had been opened before)
(22) a. Gianni often dates the same person.
b. Gianni dates the same person often. (adapted from Cinque 1999: 92)
Both uses of again and often date back a long time, according to the OED
(to Middle English at least), and this stability is unexpected, with two
separate positions in (16). When elements grammaticalize, they are
realized higher up the tree (van Gelderen 2004). In this process, we see
frequent “jumps,” e.g. from manner adverb to sentence adverb and
from deontic modal to an epistemic one, but the path never goes
through every step in (16).
My main reason for worrying about (16), however, is the possible
number of adverbs to incorporate, i.e. in the thousands. Therefore,
rather than have a rigid order of all of these and possibly more, I
suggest (as in Butler 2003) that certain areas in the TP (and the other
124 T H E T P-L A Y E R
domains) are typical for certain moods, tenses, or aspects. I will sug-
gest (23) instead of (16).
(23) Mood-Layer
speech-act, evaluative, Tense-Layer
evidential, epistemic
Mod-Layer
past, future
ASP-Layer of time
irrealis, necessity, possibility
ASP-Layer of manner
habitual, repetitive, frequentative, celerative
terminative, continuative, perfect, retrospective
proximative, durative
generic/progressive, prospective, completive, celerative,
repetitive, frequentative, completive
A major issue is how the basic order is acquired, and there are two
answers that are compatible with Minimalism: (a) the order is due to a
third-factor effect, namely the relative scope of these categories; (b)
the order and the categories themselves are innate, i.e. provided by
Universal Grammar.
A third factor approach might be to think about scope. For instance,
Bybee (1985: 15) formulates the notion of semantic relevance: “a
category is relevant to the verb to the extent that the meaning of the
category directly affects the lexical content of the verb stem.” A verb
stem describes an action or state, so aspect is very relevant to it and
will be merged closer to it than mood. Zagona’s work (e.g. 2007) argues
that the interpretation of modals depends on what they merge with.
Hacquard (2010: 109), similarly, argues in connection with modal
auxiliaries that the same modal verb can have a high and low mean-
ing, i.e. epistemic or deontic, depending on how it relates to an event:
“[A]n epistemic modal base needs to be bound by a contentful event,
which both attitude and speech events are, but regular VP-events
aren’t.” To put it in simpler terms, an epistemic modal expresses the
likelihood of an assertion (and need not occur in an actual world), but
a deontic modal modifies an actual event (and needs to occur in an
Cartography of the TP 125
actual world). One example of such ordering is that a “[p]erfective
takes a predicate of events (VP) and returns a predicate of times,
which then combines with tense” (Hacquard 2009: 294), and this
determines the order.
The other possibility, namely that the order is given by Universal
Grammar, is avoided as much as possible in current Minimalism
(although I think Chomsky’s main worry that there was not enough
evolutionary time for Universal Grammar to develop a lot of detail is
not warranted if non-humans already have a lot of semantics; see
Jackendoff 2002). The semantic features which make up the auxilia-
ries can be argued to be determined by Universal Grammar, as I have
mentioned in Chapter 1. The order could be third factor, although
Universal Grammar could also be involved, as Chomsky (2001: 12)
suggests: “[a]ssume that substantive categories are selected by func-
tional categories. V by a light verb, T by C.”
Various syntacticians have worried about (16), in particular Ernst
(2002). In the spirit of Jackendoff (1972), Ernst argues that the base
positions of adverbs are determined by zones, as in (23), partly deter-
mined by the lexical entry and partly by compositional rules (2002: 10,
37). Attractive about Ernst’s proposal is that the position is in principle
free but that interface requirements play a significant role. Interpret-
ability at the LF interface, for instance, rules out (24), because cleverly
must take an event to form another event, and that is not happening.
(24) *Theo cleverly probably bought flowers.
(Ernst 2002: 19)
Ernst’s scope relations will not be spelled out here. See Ernst (2002,
e.g. pp. 143–144) for more. What I wanted to emphasize is that adverbs
are more zone-sensitive, as shown in (23), than that they fit in a precise
hierarchy.
Another possible problem for (16) is Haider’s (2000) point that
adverbials of the same type can stack in the Spec of CP in German. I
have given a Dutch example in (25a). Since Dutch is a verb-second (V2)
language, the preverbal adverbials in (25) must be lumped together in
some way, and this is easier to account for in (23) than in (16). If the
adverbials are not of the same type, e.g. temporal and spatial in (25b),
the result is ungrammatical.
(25) a. [Morgen] [in de middag] [om ongeveer half zes] ga ik dat doen. Dutch
Tomorrow in the afternoon at about half six go I that do
‘I’ll do that tomorrow around half past five in the afternoon.’
126 T H E T P-L A Y E R
b. *[Morgen] [naar Canada] ga ik vertrekken
Tomorrow to Canada go I leave
‘I leave for Canada tomorrow.’
Biskup (2011) is perhaps the most recent critic of (16). Using English
data from Abels (2003) but also lots of his own from Czech, Biskup
argues that Adverbial Hierarchies of various clauses interact, unex-
pected in the model of (16). For instance, already has scope over no
longer and can only appear in the higher clause, as (26) shows.
(26) a. It is already the case that he no longer goes to school.
b. *It is no longer the case that he already goes to school.
(Biskup 2011: 132, from Abels 2003)
Cinque classifies only once and then as tense adverbials (i.e. past and
future in (16) above). Compared with the number of aspectual and
modal adverbs, that is meager indeed. Haumann (2007: 263) explains
that there are many other temporal adverbs, such as afterwards, before,
now, since, today, tomorrow, and yesterday, but that for a variety of
reasons many are not grammatical in the area between the subject
and the VP. For instance, the calendar-adverbials (Sunday, last week, and
next year) can occur to the right side of the V, as in (27a), and in the left-
periphery, as in (27b), but are barred from an internal position, as (27c)
shows.
(27) a. They were very happy last week.
b. Last week, they were very happy last week.
c. *They were last week very happy.
These adverbials are much more like the circumstantial adverbials we
have seen in Chapter 3, because they are PP-like. Hence, they are
assumed to have moved from a VP internal position to the left-
periphery. The temporal adverbials of the TP-Layer occur in most
positions (with the right intonation), as (28) shows.
(28) a. She said that once.
b. Once, she said that.
c. She once said that.
Table 4.1 presents some temporal adverbials and their positions.
The position of the aspectual adverbials in the clause is flexible. As
Haumann (2007: 232) writes, the positioning is “vitually free: they
may occur between the subject and the finite lexical verb . . . between
a modal and the bare infinitive . . . between any finite auxiliary and the
participle . . . after non-finite auxiliaries.” In addition, they can also
occur at the beginning and end of a sentence. Some of these positions
Cartography of the TP 127
are provided in (29) for the frequency adverb, i.e. ASPfrequentative in
(16), rarely (adapted from Haumann 2007: 233 and Google).
(29) a. She rarely goes out.
b. She could rarely find those colors.
c. She has rarely been in the same boat.
d. She has been rarely seen on stage.
e. Rarely will she get angry.
f. They do that rarely.
This freedom of position does present a problem for a strict sequence,
as in (16), but less so for (23).
The mood and modal adverbials in the TP (16) involve probably,
perhaps, necessarily, possibly, and intentionally. They too are quite free in
position, as I show for possibly (adapted from Google).
(30) a. They possibly murdered the butler.
b. They could possibly be the worst thing to happen all week.
c. They could be possibly going to give a news report that they have struck oil
somewhere else.
d. Possibly, this is going nowhere.
In short, adverbials in the TP-Layer are said to fit as specifiers in a very
specific universal hierarchy, and auxiliaries are heads of the corre-
sponding phrases. Some of the challenges come with asking how
many adverbials can be grammatically marked, and if their features
are checked. I have suggested a less strict approach than Cinque,
basically with areas of tense, mood, and aspect throughout the clause.
The ultimate order should be determined by a third factor, as sug-
gested by Ernst, Hacquard, and others.
4 . 3 D I S P L A C E M E N T IN T H E T P
Nouns and pronouns can be marked for each of the three roles/
functions they play. In Chapter 3, we discussed the semantic or
thematic roles; in this section and the next, we look at the
Table 4.1 Temporal adverbials (based on Haumann 2007: 263–267)
Inside TP Outside TP
now, once, (long) since, then, long
ago, after(wards), before
today, tomorrow, yesterday, last year,
on Monday, next year, etc.
128 T H E T P-L A Y E R
grammatical functions of subject and object; and in the next chapter,
the pragmatic roles of topic and focus are examined. In English,
grammatical subjects and objects are mainly marked through posi-
tion, as will be discussed more in Section 4.3.1. It is the EPP that is
said to be responsible for getting a DP from the VP to the subject
position in Spec TP, and the object is said to remain in its postverbal
position. This will be shown in Section 3.2. As mentioned, we’ll
suggest some ways to make the EPP less ad-hoc and also discuss V
to T movement in Section 3.3.
4.3.1 More on the subject nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
How do we recognize a grammatical subject? Keenan (1976) distin-
guishes how they are coded from how they behave in controlling
other parts of the sentence. As for the coding, I mentioned in
Chapter 2 that there is limited marking of the nominative on the
subject in English, and there is, again limited, agreement between
the subject and the finite verb. A very reliable criterion to find the
subject is through its position, namely before the finite auxiliary or
verb (in an indicative sentence). This position is supposed to be the
Spec of TP. The exact label doesn’t matter so much, although its
position relative to other parts of the sentence does matter, following
C and preceding T.
Subjects also control infinitival null subjects, represented by PRO
in (31), and reflexives, as in (32). They also control the subject of an
elided coordinate, as in (33). These properties are probably due to the
structurally high position of the subject.
(31) We want [PRO to eat frybread].
(32) I saw myself.
(33) I ate frybread and (I) enjoyed myself.
There are languages where only subjects can control the subject of an
infinitive and be the antecedent for a reflexive. In English, however,
grammatical objects can also control PRO and serve as antecedents for
reflexives, as (34) and (35) show.
(34) I persuaded him PRO to eat frybread.
(35) They showed Bill to himself (using a picture).
Using the vP-shell for double object constructions, this could still
be an issue of the object being higher, at least in English (36).
Displacement in the TP 129
(36) vP
They v’
v VP
Bill V’
V PP
showed to himself
Subjects are different from objects in being able to control coordinate-
elided subjects, which objects cannot. Thus, the elided subject has to
be the same as the earlier subject, as (37a) shows, and could never be
interpreted as the object in English in (37b).
(37) a. I want to visit them and (Subject = I) have fun.
b. *I want to visit them and (Subject = they) have fun.
Although grammatical subjects are often Agents, in terms of semantic
roles, they can also be Themes, as in (38), or Experiencers, as in (39), or
Goals, as in (40), or have no thematic roles, as in (41). That’s the reason
we need to distinguish grammatical and semantic role.
(38) a. The books were destroyed.
b. That irritated me.
(39) They saw the beauty in the landscape.
(40) We were given four choices.
(41) There’s five unicorns in the room.
The subject position we have identified in English is Spec TP. What is
the reason that the subject moves to this position? Under the probe-
goal system of checking the features between the T and the subject in
Spec vP, there is no reason due to checking for it to move. This is
where the EPP comes in, to which we turn in Section 4.3.2.
4.3.2 The EPP and movement of the DP nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
The EPP is based on the Projection Principle, which is used in
Chomsky (1981: 29) to ensure that the argument structure from the
lexicon is kept the same (is “projected”) throughout the derivation.
This is a mapping problem, similar to the one we saw in Chapter 3,
130 T H E T P-L A Y E R
namely how to map the arguments to the syntax. The E in EPP stands
for “extended” and helps create a subject position if the verb has none,
as in the case of passives. The EPP is later used more broadly than just
to trigger movement to the subject position, as we’ll see.
In the early 1980s, most subjects are directly base generated in the
higher position because the phrase structure rules are as in (42), and
movement to the subject position is not needed.
(42) (a) S → NP VP (=Subject and Predicate)
(b) VP → V NP (NP) (PP) ‘ (=Verb and Objects)
This base generation of the subject outside of the VP changes, of
course, around 1988 with the VPISH. Even before that, there is an
attempt to reduce redundancy between the lexicon and the phrase
structure rules. If the lexicon specifies that a verb has an NP, the
phrase structure rules shouldn’t do this as well. The Projection
Principle allows (42b) to be rewritten as in (43), and that was seen as
a reduction of redundancy.
(43) a. XP → YP X’
b. X’ → X ZP
Reducing the phrase structure rules to (43) introduces X-bar theory.
Doing that means there has to be a special rule for the subject. As
Chomsky (1982: 9–10) writes, “it might be thought that this [fact that
each sentence has a subject] follows from the Projection Principle,
since . . . verbs θ-mark their subjects, but this is not quite correct.” The
reason is that verbs mark agents and themes but not subjects and
objects, so we have to specify that English has a special position for
subjects. Chomsky goes on to give two reasons: Passives have no
theta-marked subjects (i.e. they only have a Theme), and there are
expletives that appear in subject position. Not being theta-marked,
expletives fall outside the Projection Principle.
Because “the Projection Principle and the requirement that clauses
have subjects are conceptually quite closely related,” Chomsky refers
to both as the EPP (Chomsky 1982: 10). He doesn’t say much about the
actual position of the subject in 1982, except that it is Subject-VP. A
subject requirement ensures that each sentence has a subject, but that
it is situated in the Spec of TP is a later addition.
As mentioned, expletives, such as it and there, are not relevant to the
argument structure but are used to satisfy the EPP in (44) if the five
unicorns fail to raise to the subject position from a postverbal base
structure.
Displacement in the TP 131
(44) a. There were five unicorns in the parking lot.
b. Five unicorns were in the parking lot.
The two DPs five unicorns in (44ab) differ in interpretation, namely
indefinite and specific respectively. This is known as the
Definiteness Effect and explains why (45) is ungrammatical.
(45) *There were the/those/my five unicorns in the parking lot.
The Definiteness Effect will become important as a way of rephrasing
the EPP as a less ad-hoc principle.
After the change in the late 1980s to base generate the Agent theta-
roles in the Spec of VP, i.e. what typically moves to the position of the
grammatical subject, the EPP becomes important for all subjects, not
just subjects of passives and expletives. However, it is a language-
specific principle, because not all languages require grammatical sub-
jects in a higher position, e.g. twee boeken ‘two books’ in Dutch (46).
(46) Gisteren werd-en mij heel goedkoop twee boek-en aangeboden Dutch
Yesterday became-P me very cheaply two book-P offered
‘Yesterday, two books were offered to me very cheaply.’
This variation prompts van Gelderen (1993) and others to argue that
the Spec TP position is optional in some languages. Seeing the subject
consistently in Spec TP in addition to elements that are clearly in the T
is an indication for the child to include the T and TP as part of its set of
functional items. Since Dutch subjects are often in Spec CP as well,
there is no reason to assume a Spec TP, and this makes the EPP even
more stipulative.
Currently, there are moves to think of the EPP either in terms of
pragmatic roles or structural requirements. A representative of the
pragmatic view is Rosengren (2002). Subjects are always specific, if not
definite, and the Spec TP is argued to be the position in which DPs are
interpreted as specific (see Diesing 1992). Such a formulation is less
stipulative, since there is direct evidence to the language learner of a
connection between position and specificity. The expletive construc-
tions in (44) above show the same connection. The DP in (44b) is
specific, but the DP in (44a) non-specific. (In (44a), we’d have to argue
that there can check definiteness/specificity by being a spatio-temporal
topic, as in e.g. Kiss 1996.) Even Chomsky (2000: 102) admits that “EPP
features are uninterpretable . . . though the configuration they estab-
lish has effects for interpretation” (of course, this is contrary to the
notion of uninterpretable features, but we’ll ignore that). Bošković
(2002) goes back to the idea that case is behind the EPP.
132 T H E T P-L A Y E R
Chomsky (2011) accounts for the EPP in a structural way. He argues
that constituents need to get labels in order to be interpreted. If the
subject remains in the Spec of vP, he argues that this subject and the
rest of the vP do not form a syntactic object and cannot be labeled.
Therefore, the subject must move out of the vP. Medeiros (2011)
justifies a model where phrasal movement is forced by complexities
of the derivation. With this multitude of possibilities, let’s thus
assume that we can find a more motivated reason why Spec TP is
occupied in some languages, either a specific interpretation or a last
resort due to structural problems. In many languages, there is an EPP
for object positions, to which we turn now.
In some languages, the object can occupy a position outside of the
VP as well. This position is reserved for definite objects (as we’ve seen
for Dutch in Chapter 3, Section 3.6.3) and that makes the process
similar to the subject moving to the Spec TP, since that is a position
for specific subjects. For instance, in Yiddish, a nominal object that
moves out of the VP, as in (47a), has to be definite; indefinite nominals
moving to that position result in ungrammaticality, as in (47b). This
movement is called scrambling, after Ross (1967).
(47) a. Maks hot dos bukh mistome/nekhtn/keyn mol nit geleyent Yiddish
Max has the book probably/yesterday/no time not read
‘Max has probably/never read the book(/yesterday).’
b. *Maks hot a bukh mistome/nekhtn/keyn mol nit geleyent
Max has a book probably/yesterday/no time not read
‘Max has probably/never read a book(/yesterday).’ (Diesing 1997: 389–390)
Based on Holmberg’s (1986) analysis, Chomsky (2001) examines
Scandinavian object shift, as in (48), where the pronominal
object moves out of the VP only if the lexical verb also moves out
of the VP.
(48) Han köpte
He it not
‘He didn’t buy to’
den inte Swedish
köpte den
bought
In Icelandic, it is also possible to move a full DP. Chomsky (2001: 33)
argues that the position to which the nominal moves is just above the
vP, and that this movement is due to an EPP feature of v, a feature
named Int for “Interpretation.” The Swedish verb köpte ‘bought’ would
be moving to its regular position in a V2 language, namely to the
C. We’ll now turn to the movement of the V to v and to T and C.
Displacement in the TP 133
4.3.3 Verb movement nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
I’ll first briefly talk about V to v and then V to T and C movement.
English lexical verbs stay inside the VP-shell, as we’ll see in a
minute. Assuming a VP-shell with the lexical verb base generated as
V, there is the possibility of V to v movement. Is there evidence that a
lexical verb moves to v in English? There is with phrasal verbs, such as
(49), and especially with causatives, as in (50).
(49) a. I turned off the light.
b. I turned the light off.
(50) I gently rolled the ball quickly down the hill. (adapted from Radford 2009)
The trees for phrasal verbs and causatives were given in Chapter 3, and
there I used V to v movement. I have added the adverbs in (50) to show
the adverbial modifications of the different verbs, the light verb and
the full verb. Because the ball does the rolling, we assume the verb rolled
has moved to the left of the ball.
How about V to v movement in sentences such as (51)?
(51) I ate the apple.
We don’t have much evidence in fact, but we assume that, if it does in
(49) and (50), it will move in (51) as well.
Turning to movement of the verb into the higher layers, as with the
movement of the subject to the Spec of TP, it is still an open question
what determines movement of V to T in (52), in languages such as
French, as opposed to languages such as English (53).
(52) Elle va souvent à Tucson French
She goes often to Tucson
‘She often goes to Tucson.’
(53) *She goes often to Tucson.
We know the verb va has moved because if there is an auxiliary the
lexical verb stays behind the adverb, as in (54).
(54) Elle est souvent allée à Tucson French
She is often gone to Tucson
‘She has often been to Tucson.’
Turning to V to T to C movement, this is limited in English. It only
happens in interrogatives, not in topicalizations, imperatives, and excla-
matives. German, Dutch, Swedish, and others move the verb to C in all
main clauses. We’ll assume that the reason is that there is an EPP in the
Fin head, which, as in the case of all EPP-accounts, is pretty stipulative.
134 T H E T P-L A Y E R
Some people see a connection between verbal movement and overt
morphological features on the verb. For instance, English lost its overt
agreement around 1600 when the verb stopped moving to T and
C. This relationship between movement and inflection can’t com-
pletely be the right approach, since many languages have verb move-
ment with very little inflection on the verb, e.g. Afrikaans and the
Scandinavian languages. So, verbs are pronounced in positions that
suggest Raising, but it is not clear why.
Another unresolved question is whether head movement takes
place in the syntax or at PF as Chomsky (1995) suggests. This was
mentioned in footnote 4 in Chapter 1. If the V moves to T and C after
the derivation splits up into a phonological and semantic component,
one would not expect any semantic effects. We’ll consider some evi-
dence that there are such effects and that head movement is in the
syntax. The evidence comes from the licensing of Negative Polarity
Items (see next paragraph).
As I said before, we won’t introduce the NegP until Chapter 6, but
most of you have probably heard of Negative Polarity Items (NPIs).
Such items need to occur in a special position (Giannikidou 1997 calls
this environment anti-veridical), e.g. being c-commanded by a nega-
tive or an interrogative marker. In (55a), n’t c-commands anyone because
the NegP is higher than the object; in (55b), there is no negative to
c-command the NPI; in (55c), the negative doesn’t c-command the NPI;
and in (55d), anyone is c-commanded by an interrogative.
(55) a. I didn’t see anyone.
b. *I saw anyone.
c. *Anyone didn’t see.
d. Did I see anyone?
As Roberts (2010: 8) explains, the licensing of anyone is a semantic
question, and, with (55d) grammatical, we have evidence that verb
movement in fact occurs before the derivation splits up into a phono-
logical and semantic part.
In Turkish, similar constructions provide evidence that verb move-
ment must happen before the sentence is interpreted, as shown in
Kural (1993). In (56a), the verb moves to Neg and then to T, and this
movement licenses the polarity item kimse. If the verb stayed in the VP
and only moved just before spell-out, both (56ab) would be similarly
ungrammatical.
(56) a. kimse gel-me-di Turkish
nobody come-NEG-PST
‘Nobody came.’
Displacement in the TP 135
b. *kimse gel-di
nobody come-PST
(Kural 1993: 84)
This is evidence for verb movement before the C-I interface.
In this section, we have identified characteristics of subjects and
objects and have looked at movement of DPs and Vs to positions in the
TP, and a little bit at movement to the CP. In the next section, we
examine morphological phenomena connected to the TP.
4 . 4 C A S E A N D A G R E E M EN T
As is well known, (pronominal) subjects and objects are recognizable
by the case they carry and the agreement they cause on the verb. In
Section 4.4.1, we discuss case and the model of case and agreement
checking that we introduced in Chapter 1; in Section 4.4.2, we look at
agreement in more detail.
4.4.1 Case nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In Chapter 1, the famous Case Filter attributed to Vergnaud was
mentioned. Vergnaud’s observation had been that certain NPs, now
DPs, are ungrammatical in certain environments, e.g. in (57a), where
the pronoun cannot be case-marked by the non-finite to be or by the
passive supposed. Instead, the pronoun has to raise to get nominative
case, as in (57b).
(57) a. *It is supposed he/him to be nice.
b. He is supposed to be nice.
Case has remained a constant concern since the 1980s. In recent
Minimalism, structural cases such as the nominative and accusative
are seen as assigned by finiteness (the T) and transitive verb (little v)
respectively. Structural case is assigned in certain positions and has no
thematic meaning connected to it. There is also inherent case which is
connected to a specific semantic role (see Chomsky 1986a). If struc-
tural case is uninterpretable both on the verb and the noun, it is a very
different feature from the phi- and T features.
In English, it is hard to see any case at all (either structural or
inherent) except on pronouns. It may, however, be true that the
distinction between I and me and s/he and him/her is one between
head and phrase and not of case: the “nominative” may be a head
and the “accusative” a full phrase (as argued in e.g. van Gelderen 2011).
136 T H E T P-L A Y E R
Since that position is controversial, I will stick to the idea that both
subject and object are licensed in some way and continue to call that
nominative and accusative case.
Nominative and accusative case, according to Pesetsky and Torrego
(2004), involve an uninterpretable/unvalued T on the nominal which
is valued by a finite T or transitive v, at least in English (but other
languages may differ). Pesetsky and Torrego connect case, finiteness,
and agreement by having a tense feature in T and v look down the tree
for a feature on the DP. My adaptation of this is as in (58).
(58) TP
She T'
T vP
[uT: past]
[u-phi:3S] v'
[u-T: NOM]
[i-3S] v VP
[u-obj]
[u-phi: 3S] V DP
saw him
[i-past] [i-3S]
[u-obj: ACC]
DP
In (58), the [u-phi] features in v act as the probe to value these [u-phi].
The latter agreement is visible in languages with object agreement on
the verb. The same valuation happens with the T, where the [u-phi-]
features act as a probe. The proposal in (58) thus represents structural
case as valued by tense and an object value.
As was mentioned in Chapter 1, there are languages without case,
and (58) would therefore have to be adapted; there are also languages
without overt tense. The dependence of case on tense could be severed
by having [u-phi] first look for valued phi-features and then have the
DP move to look for case. Such “delayed valuation” is suggested in e.g.
Carstens (2012) and would require that we allow DPs to act as probes. I
won’t pursue this possibility further.
There are other problems with the picture in (58), namely,
Greenberg’s Universal in (59) has been known for a long time, and it
Case and agreement 137
implies that orders where the V is first will have less agreement than
when the nominal is before the V. We have seen some Arabic senten-
ces in Chapter 1 that show this asymmetry between SV and VS.
(59) Universal 33
When number agreement between the noun and verb is suspended
and the rule is based on order, the case is always one in which the verb
precedes and the verb is in the singular. (Greenberg 1963: 94)
This indicates that agreement as in (58) is too simplistic. I turn to
agreement next, looking at the different agreement features first
before tackling the word order issue of (59).
4.4.2 Agreement nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In (58), I use a generic [phi-] feature, representing number, person, and
gender. There are theoretical and empirical issues connected with
that, and in this section I look at some other possibilities and suggest
an account for the universal in (59).
First, there are general issues with phi-features. Kayne (2011: 1)
notes that “allowing lexical items to have any number of features is
akin to allowing n-ary branching for any n.” For about twenty years,
there has been a debate on whether feature bundling is allowed or if
each feature F has its own projection. If we disallow feature bundles,
we could have the following DP with interpretable features spread out
(in the spirit of Ritter 1995).
(60) DP
D NumP
[i-3]
Num NP
[i-S]
N
([i-F])
We could argue the D is essential for an NP, and that would fit with
Forchheimer’s (1953) observation that almost all languages have per-
son expressed overtly in their pronoun system, but not all have num-
ber and gender. See also Richards (2007) and Harley and Ritter (2002).
The features on the T and v would have to be split as well, perhaps as
in (61a) and (61b), respectively. Languages would select the features.
138 T H E T P-L A Y E R
(61) a. PsP ( = TP) b. vP
Ps NumP Num GenP
[u-ps] [u - #]
Num GenP Gen VP
[u - #] [u-gen]
Gen vP
[u-gen]
Person features are crucial to the T but not to the v; at the moment,
this is a stipulation.
A second question with phi-features and AGREE in (58) is why SV
orders result in more agreement than VS orders, as we’ve seen with
Arabic in Chapter 1, and the same with OV and VO orders, as we’ll see
in Section 4.5. The interesting part is that number is lost, not person!
Some examples are given in (62) to (65), from various stages and
varieties of English.
(62) On ðæm selfan hrægle . . . wæs eac awriten ða naman ðara twelf heahfædra
‘On the same robe . . . was also written the names of the twelve
patriarchs.’ (Ælfred, CP 6, 15)
(63) In that cytee was the sittynges of the .xij. tribes of Israel.
(Mandeville’s Travels, 71, 17–18)
(64) Is all things ready for that Royall time? (Shakespeare, Richard III, III, 4, 5)
(65) Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius here?
(Shakespeare, Julius Caesar, I, 3, 148)
This suggests a role for Spec-Head agreement in addition to just AGREE.
If it is typically the number feature that disappears, the probe in T
might only be looking for person (and gender). Possibly a tree as in (66)
is feasible.
(66)
TP
T
[u-ps]
As we’ve seen in Chapter 1 (Table 1.2), languages either have case or
agreement, or both, or neither. Baker (2008a: 155) therefore suggests
Case and agreement 139
the macroparameter in (67). He also suggests (68), which is a way of
accounting for Spec-Head agreement.
(67) The Case Dependence of Agreement Parameter (CDAP)
F agrees with DP/NP only if F values the case feature of DP/NP (or vice versa).
(No: most Bantu languages; Yes: most Indo-European languages)
(68) The Direction of Agreement Parameter (DAP)
F agrees with DP only if DP asymmetrically c-commands F.
(Yes: most Bantu languages; No: most Indo-European languages)
The parameters can be stated in a simplified form as (69) and (70).
(69) Cluster [u-T] and [u-phi] or not, i.e. case and agreement depend on each other
or not.
(70) Spec-Head or AGREE.
It would be good if the DAP and CDAP could be generalized, e.g. to wh-
movement, and I’ll show that now.
Person is definitely checked through probing, and number may be
checked in a Spec-Head relationship. The latter is confirmed by some
seemingly unrelated cases of movement through the CP-Layer.
Kimball and Aissen (1971) describe a variety of English that allows
relative clauses as in (71ab) but not as in (72).
(71) a. The people CP[who the boy think CP[who are in the garden]].
b. The people CP[who the boy think CP[who the girl know [who are in the
garden]]].
(72) *The people CP[who who think CP[that John know the answer]].
(Kimball and Aissen 1971)
In (71ab), the nominative plural wh-element agrees with the verb of a
higher clause in number if that wh-element has cyclically moved
through the Spec of the higher CP as in (71). Sentence (72) shows
that this type of agreement takes place only if the wh-element indeed
moves through the relevant Spec CP. In keeping with Chomsky (1995:
59ff.), I assume there is a strong Q feature that triggers the wh-element.
This variety is more widespread and appears regularly in the history of
English, as (73) and (74) show.
(73) What cares these roarers for the name of King? (Shakespeare, Tempest, I, 1, 17,
van Gelderen 1997a: 67)
(74) Overheard: What you already knows.
There are other languages with similar phenomena. When the wh-
element precedes the auxiliary in C in Tohono O’odham, as in (75), the
140 T H E T P-L A Y E R
auxiliary is different in shape from when it follows C, as in (76). In
addition, the morphology on the auxiliary is different.
(75) Do: ‘o kud
˙
ut g ‘ali? Tohono O’odham
who AUX.3 bother.IMPF the baby
‘Who is/was bothering the baby?’ (Zepeda [1983] 1994: 53)
(76) k hed
.ai s
˙
oak? Tohono O’odham
AUX.3 who cry.S.IMPF
‘Who is/was crying?’ (Zepeda [1983] 1994: 55)
In conclusion, the tree in (58) is a way of connecting agreement, case,
and tense/aspect in English. There are a number of issues unresolved,
however. First, not all languages make the connection between tense,
case, and agreement; second, the issue of the bundling of the phi-
features is up in the air; and third, Spec-Head agreement still plays a
role in checking phi-features, unaccounted for in (58). I have therefore
suggested a few modifications, although these remain stipulative.
4 . 5 CR O S S - L I N G U I S T I C O B S E R V A T I O N S
In this chapter, we have looked at the relatively rich auxiliary struc-
ture indicating TMA in English and the substantial number of adver-
bials. We have also examined the ways the subject and object are
marked and the movement by the verb. Since the TP is cross-
linguistically so variable, we have already seen examples from many
languages. In this section, I add a few more facts and examples.
4.5.1 TMA auxiliaries and adverbials nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Do auxiliaries and adverbials appear in the order of (16) in all lan-
guages? Cinque (1999) argues that the functional order is universal,
and I will follow that, even though I have suggested fewer positions. In
this section, I will indicate a few areas where languages differ: (a)
having TMA affixes rather than auxiliaries; and (b) not selecting all
the categories from the Functional Hierarchy.
In principle, each of the functional phrases in (16) can be filled by a
full phrase in the specifier position (adverbial), and a word (auxiliary)
or an affix in the head position. Throughout each language’s history,
there are many changes, and one of these is the change from phrase to
word to affix. For instance, in Navajo, there is a -d- future on the verb
that could be related to doo(leeł), the future auxiliary; in Melanesian
Pidgin, the future auxiliary bai ‘will’ can cliticize as b-; and in Greek tha
Cross-linguistic observations 141
‘will’ is an affix originating from thelo ‘to want.’ (77) is an instance of a
future affix.
(77) b-em i go Melanesian Pidgin
FUT-3S PART go
‘S/he will go.’ (Crowley and Bowern 2010: 222)
It is well known that not all languages select the same set, but let’s
look at an intriguing example where aspect is much more elaborate
than in English. Mithun (2000) shows that Central Pomo, spoken in
Northern California, contains a very rich system of aspectual marking.
She notes that the markers are drawn from a restricted set and that
they repeat themselves, so to speak. In (78), you see three imperfective
and two perfective markers; in (79) you see the fuller forms.
(78) Wá.ymin-wa ma Ɂé.y-yo-h-du-w-a-d-anɁ Central Pomo
Often-Q you away-go-PF-IMPF-PF-IMPF-IMPF
‘Do you go away a lot?’ (Mithun 2000: 273)
(79) IMPF -an; PF –w; PROGR –wan; Continuative -(h)duw;
Habitual IMPF -adan; Habitual PF -(h)duwan;
Frequentative -(h)duwandan
When a native speaker was asked about the difference between the
habitual perfective and the frequentative, she said “not much differ-
ence” (Mithun 2000: 276). So Pomo uses affixes where other languages
might use auxiliaries. However, even if we might find places for these
in (16), it is not clear that that would be the right analysis.
4.5.2 Subject and object and agreement and case nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
We’ll first look at how languages other than English mark subjects
and objects through position and then at agreement and case. I’ll also
add a little on so-called free word order languages.
As we’ve seen, English subjects and objects are marked through
position and possibly through agreement and case. Closely related
languages such as German have a freer word order and show more
case and agreement to mark the subject and object. This is true in (80),
where the accusative-marked object precedes the nominative-marked
subject. Special intonation is needed, however.
(80) Den Jungen hat der Hund gebissen. German
the.ACC boy has.3S the.NOM dog bitten
‘The dog bit the boy.’
There are a few languages where it has been argued that only semantic
and pragmatic roles are marked; see Keenan (1976), Schachter (1976),
142 T H E T P-L A Y E R
and Mithun (2008). This suggests that not all languages have the
grammatical role of subject. A very helpful observation in this respect
comes from Donohue (1999: chapter 20), who says that in some lan-
guages the pivot (or the grammatical role) is directly tied to the
semantic role – he mentions the languages Archi and Aceh – but that
in others it is tied to pragmatic or syntactic roles. In Tukang Besi, an
Austronesian language, the system is mixed, e.g. the addressee of an
imperative always has to be a semantic Agent, the pronominal index-
ing on the verb is tied to the grammatical role (S or A), and cases are
tied to the pragmatic roles.
Turning to cross-linguistic variation in agreement, it is relevant
to note Givón (1971; 1978), who, arguing that agreement markers
arise from pronouns, says “agreement and pronominalization . . .
are fundamentally one and the same phenomenon” (1978: 151).
Therefore, it is cross-linguistically interesting to see how pronomi-
nal an agreement marker still is. If agreement and pronouns are the
same thing, we expect either pronouns or agreement, as Table 4.2
shows.
This means that most languages in the sample use agreement
and not so many a pronominal subject. This difference can be
expressed by using interpretable and uninterpretable phi-features.
Languages with an overt pronoun and agreement make use of
uninterpretable phi-features in T to probe the interpretable fea-
tures of the subject, whereas those without a pronoun have inter-
pretable features on T.
Agreement with the object on the verb is quite frequent as well,
again not something we’d expect just looking at English.
Table 4.2 The marking of subjects (from Dryer 2011a)
Pronominal subjects are expressed by pronouns in subject
position
82 (11.5%)
Pronominal subjects are expressed by affixes on verbs 437 (62%)
Pronominal subjects are expressed by clitics with variable
host
32 (4.5 %)
Pronominal subjects are expressed by pronouns in a
different syntactic position from full noun phrase
subjects
67 (9.4%)
Pronominal subjects are expressed only by pronouns in
subject position, but these pronouns are often left out
61 (8.6%)
More than one of the above types, with none dominant 32 (4.5%)
Total 711
Cross-linguistic observations 143
Examples of marking of the object on the verb are given in (81) from
Tohono O’odham and in (82) from French. Note, however, that in the
latter most agreement is only present in the written language.
(81) a. Gogs ‘o ha-huhu’id hegam Tohono O’odham
dog AUX.3S P-chasing them/those
‘The dog is chasing them.’
b. Gogs ‘o hegam ha-huhu’id
dog AUX.3S them/those P-chasing
‘The dog is chasing them.’
c. Ceoj ‘o ‘añi: ñ-ceggia
boy AUX.3S me 1S-fighting
‘The boy is/was fighting me.’ (Zepeda [1983] 1994: 34–35)
(82) a. Les chais-es sont repeint-es French
the chairs-FP AUX.P repainted-FP
‘The chairs are repainted.’
b. Il les a repeint-es
he them AUX.3S repainted-FP
‘He has repainted them’.
Tohono O’odham has agreement in VO (81a) and OV (81bc). French
follows Universal 33, and the participle agrees only if the object
appears before it, as in (82), as the absence of agreement in the VO
(83) also shows.
(83) Il a repein-t les chaises French
he AUX.3S repainted-MS the chairs (FP)
‘He has repainted the chairs.’
An analysis of (82) and (83) would be one where the object has to move
through a particular specifier in order to trigger agreement. As was
said in connection to (58), there is no good account for that in a purely
probe-goal approach, but I will suggest an account for it below.
Table 4.3 Marking on the verb (from Siewierska 2011)
No person marking of any argument 82 (22%)
Person marking of only the A argument 73 (19%)
Person marking of only the P argument 24 (6%)
Person marking of the A or P argument 6 (1.6%)
Person marking of both the A and P arguments 193 (51%)
Total 378
144 T H E T P-L A Y E R
Apart from differences in agreement and position, there are also
differences in features selected. As is known from the work of
Forchheimer, Ingram (1978), and Cysouw (2003), pronominal para-
digms vary quite a lot across languages. To give just one example,
there are languages with a dual number, as Table 4.4 shows for the
markings on the verb on the left and the independent pronouns on the
right.
Turning to case, it is very variable. Siewierska and Bakker (2009:
299) say that “case marking of arguments is overall considerably less
common cross-linguistically than agreement marking.” Table 4.5
shows this. The numbers of cases also vary enormously, as the table
also shows, where high numbers represent inherent case.
Case often indicates grammatical roles such as subject and object,
but also signals specific or definite, e.g. the Russian negative genitive
that we’ve seen in (34) of Chapter 3. This means a language can
grammaticalize pragmatic information through its structural case
system.
A question that often comes up is “What about free word order
languages?” Australian languages, such as Warlpiri and languages
such as Latin are often mentioned as examples. It turns out that
Table 4.4 Navajo subject agreement and independent pronouns (fourth person,
indefinite, and areal left out)
Agreement Pronouns
S Dual P S Dual P
1 -sh- -iid- da + iid shi nihi danihi
2 -ni- -oh- da + oh ni nihi danihi
3 -0- -0- da bi bi daabi
Table 4.5 Variability of case (adapted from Iggesen 2011)
No morphological case marking 100 languages
2 cases 23 languages
3–4 cases 18 languages
5 cases 12 languages
6–7 cases 37 languages
8–9 cases 23 languages
10 or more cases 24 languages
Total 237
Cross-linguistic observations 145
when one looks at these carefully, the word order is pragmatically
determined. Swartz (1988) and Hale (1992) thus argue for Warlpiri that
the sentence topic comes first.
4.5.3 Movement in the TP by the DP, V, and VP nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In this section, I will give further examples of various movements in
languages that are richer in movement than English.
As we’ve seen above, in languages such as French, the (main) verb
moves to T if there is no auxiliary; in other languages it is even moving
to C, as (84) shows.
(84) Dat weet ik jammergenoeg niet meer Dutch
that know I unfortunately not more
‘Unfortunately, I don’t remember any more.’
In French, as in English, the subject moves to the Spec of TP, but this is
not necessary in languages such as Russian, Spanish, or Irish (85).
(85) Tá an bóthad dı́reach Irish
is the road straight
‘The road is straight.’ (Dillon and ó Cróinı́n 1961: 27)
VS languages provide evidence for V to T movement; other lan-
guages, as we’ve seen in Chapter 1, have VP movement or object
movement to derive a diversity of word orders. The triggers for these
are tricky, of course. Table 4.6 provides a list of all movement
possibilities.
As for Germanic scrambling, we have seen an example in (47) of
Section 4.3.2; we’ve also seen an example of Scandinavian object shift
in (48). Chocano (2007) argues that the two phenomena are the same.
In both, a definite topic is moved outside of the VP. Both scrambling
and object shift constructions pose problems for checking by a higher
T because the (shifted) object would be in between the probe and goal.
Table 4.6 Types of movement
X movement: French V movement; T-to-C in English interrogatives
XP movement: Subject to Spec TP; wh-element to Spec CP; VP to Spec CP in
VOS languages; scrambling of the object; object shift
Remnant movement: VP movement after the V or DP have moved out
146 T H E T P-L A Y E R
Sentence (48), repeated here as (86), has a structure as in (87), which
shows the derivation at the moment that the T has been merged and
before the subject han ‘he’ and the verb move higher. The problem is
that the probe in T would see the features of the object first! I won’t go
into this more.
(86) Han köpte den inte Swedish
He bought it not
‘He didn’t buy it.’
(87) T’
T vP
[u-phi]
den vP
han
v ...
köpte
In Section 4.5, as in all cross-linguistic sections in this book, we have
just scratched the surface of all the types of variation that is around.
4 . 6 CO N C L U S I O N
In this chapter, we have discussed the grammatical layer which
includes temporal, modal, and aspectual information in the shape of
auxiliaries and adverbials. The former are heads and the latter speci-
fiers. The TP-Layer houses the subject in most languages and accom-
modates the finiteness (or non-finiteness) by marking e.g. a
nominative subject and agreement on the verb. The grammatical
object can be marked by agreement or case as well, although not in
English.
As I have tried to make clear, a purely Cartographic approach is
perhaps too rich. I have suggested a modified tree and will finish with
a tree with all features of the TP (except progressive and lexical
aspect).
Conclusion 147
(88) CP
C’
C TP
[u-T]
Spec T’
She
T MP
[uT:fut]
[u-phi : 3S] Spec M’
NOM
EPP M ASPP
may
[u-mood : irr] ASP’
[i-fut]
ASP VP
have
[u-asp] she left
[i-irr] [i-phi] [i-RelT]
[u-Case : NOM]
A bare phrase structure approach would start (88) from the bottom
and not label where the branches come together. Even though I think
a label-less tree is on the right track, I continue to use the labels in (88)
for expository purposes. In this tree, I ignore the formation of the VP,
but, assuming it has been merged, the merging of ASP triggers the
checking of the aspectual auxiliary have, for which I use RelT. The next
Merge may be the subject she in the Spec of ASPP, and then the modal
auxiliary may, after which checking takes place. The next Merge is T,
which values its uninterpretable phi-features with she, after which she
moves to the Spec of TP.
Keywords
TMA, adverbs/adverbials, auxiliaries, grammatical subject and object,
agreement, EPP, nominative and accusative case, inherent and struc-
tural case, V to T movement, scrambling, object shift
148 T H E T P-L A Y E R
D I S C U S S I O N P O I N T S
1. What distinguishes an item as lexical or grammatical? Think of
adverbs such as then, soon, etc.
2. Discuss a tree for (1) and justify your choices.
(1)They may have all left early.
3. Think of adding features to the tree of (1).
4. Jespersen ([1922] 1959: 335) remarks that verbal agreement is a
superfluity, and that languages would do well to get rid of it: “By
getting rid of this [agreement] superfluity, Danish has got the start
of the more archaic of its Aryan sister-tongues.” If agreement were
lost, what ramifications would that have for the tree in (58)?
5. Provide a derivation for (2).
(2)Five monkeys were assumed to have been in the parking lot.
S UG G E S T I O N S F O R F U R T H E R R E A D I N G
Pollock (1989) is a classic on the splitting of I into T and AGR; his compar-
ison of French and English verb movement is elaborate.
See Hegarty (2005) for feature-based functional categories. Lyons (1977) is
helpful on the semantics of mood and aspect, and Ernst (2002) pro-
vides semantic alternatives to adverbial Cartography.
For more insight into the EPP, see Lasnik (2001), Richards and Biberauer
(2005), Chomsky (2011), and Medeiros (2011). The latter two have
structural approaches to the EPP.
Baker (2008a) keeps Spec-Head agreement in his model, and Moro (1997)
and Hazout (2004) provide more theoretical background to
expletives.
Suggestions for further reading 149
5 The CP-Layer
After looking at the thematic layer in Chapter 3 and the grammatical
layer in Chapter 4, we reach the last and highest layer, the pragmatic
one. This is the layer that looks “outside” the clause. If the CP is a main
clause, its C indicates the mood (indicative, interrogative, imperative,
etc.); finiteness, and the topic and focus are all part of the expanded
CP. If the CP is an embedded clause, it links itself to another clause by
means of a complementizer, and hence the name Complementizer
Phrase. Embedded CPs are typically less expanded and also are subject
to much cross-linguistic variation. English is actually rather restricted
in its use of the matrix CP for topic and focus.
In Section 5.1, I first provide some background on the history of the
CP before going into the expanded CP. Section 5.2 looks at comple-
mentizers, and Section 5.3 at mood and CP adverbials that are also
candidates for inclusion in this layer. Section 5.4 provides evidence for
topic and focus positions as part of the CP-Layer, and Section 5.5
provides some cross-linguistic observations. As in the case of the
TP-Layer, the chapter argues that languages differ in the categories
that are included in this layer. It also provides an alternative to the
strict Cartographic approach, suggesting there is a requirement of
pragmatic interpretation at the C-I interface.
5 . 1 T H E E X P A N D E D CP
In this section, I sketch how the representation of the simple clause
changes from S’ (pronounced as “S-bar”) in the 1970s to CP in the
1990s and then to an expanded or split CP in the late 1990s.
Although recursion is an important topic in early Generative
Grammar, clausal embeddings do not appear in the phrase structure
rules of e.g. Chomsky (1957: 111). They do in Chomsky (1965: 100, 102),
in the form of S’ as complements to N and V. The TP and CP are relatively
150
“recent” innovations, results of the extension of the X-bar schema to
functional categories in Chomsky (1986b) and Fukui and Speas (1986).
This additional structure had been emerging for many years (e.g. in the
work of Bresnan 1972, Rosenbaum 1976, Stowell 1981, etc.). The S’, as in
(1), is replaced by a CP in the mid 1980s, as in (2).
(1) S’ (S’ is originally written with a bar on top of it, S)
C S
who will they I VP
will
V who
elect
(2) CP
who C′
C IP
will
they I’
I VP
will
V who
elect
The advantage of (2) is that it can accommodate a head and a specifier.
The representation of wh-questions in (1) is awkward because of the
two constituents in C but receives a natural analysis in (2). Note that I
have left the I-position, which was used in the 1980s, rather than
change it to the more current T-position.
In addition to an intuitively pleasing account for wh-movement
in English, (2) works very well for V2 languages, which den Besten
(1983) is one of the first to note. He advocates that the finite verb
The expanded CP 151
in V2 languages moves to C in main clauses, as in (3), and is
therefore in complementary distribution with an overt comple-
mentizer, as in (4).
(3) Gisteren heeft Hans dat gedaan Dutch
Yesterday has Hans that done
‘Yesterday, Hans did that.’
(4) a. . . . dat Hans dat heeft gedaan Dutch
that Hans that has done
‘that Hans has done that.’
b. *. . . dat heeft Hans dat gedaan
that has Hans that done
‘that Hans has done that.’
This shows the parallel between Germanic V2 and auxiliary-fronting
in English interrogatives. In what follows below, we will fine-tune
where exactly the verb goes.
The tree with a single CP, as in (2), is very familiar by now, and it
clarifies certain word orders in languages across the world. It also
accounts for the order of [wh – that], where the wh-element can be a
phrase, as in (5) and (6), which occurs in varieties of English, as well as
in many other languages.
(5) she doesn’t know where that she runs, but she runs . . . (www.adriandenning.
co.uk/ooberman.html)
(6) We know when that she has to be scooped up immediately upon exiting her
crate in the morning . . . (www.vegaskelly.com/?cat=4)
A tree for (6) is given in (7).
(7) CP
when C’
C TP
that
she has to be ...
Topics do not trigger V-movement in English, as (8ab) shows, but they
do in the other Germanic languages, e.g. (9) from Swedish.
(8) a. Instructions we always avoid.
b. *Instructions avoid we always.
152 T H E C P-L A Y E R
(9) Färöisk fotboll har jag ingen aning om Swedish
Faroese soccer have I no idea about
‘I don’t know anything about Faroese soccer.’ (adapted from Google)
This difference suggests that the verbs in (8a) and (9) are in differ-
ent positions and that the CP is more complex than the one
presented in (2). We come back to the precise position of topics
in Section 5.4.
Let me note that, for instance, Chomsky (1977: 91) distinguishes
topicalization, as in (8a), from left dislocation, as in (10).
(10) Instructions, we always avoid them.
Chomsky argues the former comes about through movement and
the latter by base generation. He adds a rule for a topic position,
and that tree, i.e. the one in (11), points towards the split in the CP
we currently have, namely with an area for topic and one for
questions.
(11) S’’ ( = S double bar)
TOP S’
C S
Apart from topics, Focus elements appear in the CP, as in (12) from
English. Note that the verb moves to second position. English is not a
very CP-heavy language, and many speakers do not like (12ab).
(12) a. No mountain lion do I ever need to encounter again!
b. Only five of the questions did she answer correctly.
Since languages accommodate topic and focus elements at the same
time, as (13) shows, we need to expand the CP. Again, most English
speakers are not crazy about these, but there is evidence from other
languages, as in (14).
(13) [As for Leonard] [what] should we give (him) on his birthday?
(14) [János] [MARIVAL] veszett össze Hungarian
János Marival fell out
‘It is stated about John that it was Mary that he fell out with.’ (from Olsway
2004, as reported in Kiss 2007)
Topics (and sentence adverbials) are sometimes seen as adjoined to the
main clause, e.g. McCloskey (1991), Lasnik and Saito (1992), and Ernst
(2002). However, adjunction is not very restrained unless it is done in
The expanded CP 153
terms of scope (see the discussion in Chapter 4). Therefore the
Cartographic approach thinks of the “adjoined” topicalized and
focused elements as occupying separate functional categories. The
disadvantage of this approach is that we create a lot of extra structure,
but the advantage is that it creates clarity as to the structure of the
projection.
Expanding the CP starts in the early 1990s, e.g. Authier (1992) and
Hoekstra (1993), and culminates in the influential Cartography of Rizzi
(1997). Rizzi’s more expanded functional projection to accommodate the
complementizer and other material appearing on the left edge of the
sentence is given in (15).
(15) . . . Force . . . (Topic) . . . (Focus) . . . Fin . . . TP (adapted from Rizzi 1997: 288)
In (15), Force looks outside of the clause and indicates the mood,
whereas Fin looks inside the clause and marks the tense.
After (15), many alternative formulations follow, e.g. (16), where
‘Int’ is interrogative and * means the Topic can be repeated. These
many alternatives, some others of which we will see in Section 5.4,
will prompt me to suggest a layer approach.
(16) Force (Topic*) Int (Topic*) Focus (Topic*) Fin TP . . . (adapted from Rizzi
2001: 289)
In short, the expanded CP is very helpful for all the heads and phrases
in the left-periphery, i.e. the complementizer, interrogatives, topics,
and focus. The main problem, as in the rest of this book, is to decide
how much of this structure is determined by Universal Grammar and
how much derives from third factors. Perhaps the most obvious evi-
dence for the CP and the expanded CP is the complementizer, as we’ll
go into now.
5 . 2 T H E F E A T U RE S , P O S IT IO N , A N D T R A N S P A R EN C Y
O F C O M P L E M E N T I Z E R S
In this section, I first look at complementizer types and their fea-
tures, and include those introducing argument, as well as adverbial
clauses. Many of the complementizers indicate the mood of the
clause, the finiteness, and various temporal distinctions. We also
look at complementizer doubling and the position of complemen-
tizers with respect to topics, focused elements, and adverbials.
Lastly, we return to the topic of clausal transparency, also known
as “deficiency.”
154 T H E C P-L A Y E R
5.2.1 Complementizer features nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In Chapter 2, I provided an introduction to complementizers. Here we
look at a few in more depth. Table 5.1 lists the most common comp-
lementizers in English. The first eleven are in head positions, and the
last three are in specifier positions. Almost all of them have another
function, in most cases an older function. The reason I list the other
function is that the features of these more lexical words were modi-
fied historically to become the complementizer.
In Chapter 2, we looked at the features of some, e.g. after. We’ll now
discuss the features of a few of these, namely that, for, whether, and
while.
In Chapter 2 and later, I argue that the complementizer that has
uninterpretable mood features and uninterpretable tense features on
the C. Using the split CP model, the mood features go into Force and
the tense features in the Fin, as in (17a). The former look up to the
higher verb, and the latter serve as a probe and require a T that has
valued its features, as in (17b). This works well, since the tree is built
up bottom to top.
Table 5.1 A few English complementizers
C Example of C use Other use
Example
of other use
after After she left, it rained. P after him
as As I said, this can be done degree Adv as nice
because Because he left, it is better. –
before Before it snowed, it rained. P before me
for I expect for you to do that. P for Santa
if If she wins, that will be great. –
once Once you listen, you hear a lot. Adv I went once
since Since he left, it is better. Adv and P since
yesterday
so He was tired, so he went to sleep. Adv so tired
that I know that the earth is round. D that book
though Though she left early . . . Adv I like it
though.
when (where) I wonder when it will happen. Adv He left
when?
whether I wondered whether it would
happen.
–
while She played soccer, while he slept. N A short
while
The features, position, and transparency of complementizers 155
(17) Before valuation After valuation
a. ForceP b. ForceP
Force FinP Force FinP
that that
that
that
[u-mood] Fin TP [u-mood: ind] Fin TP
[u-T] She T' [u-T: past] She T’
ru
T VP T VP
[u-T] V left
[i-pres] or [i-past] or [i-fut] [i-past]
Many people talking about this issue simply use the CP-Layer, rather
than the split CP. Occasionally, I will also do this where the expanded
CP is less relevant. Pesetsky and Torrego (2001; 2004; 2007) develop
the idea that the [u-T] features of C/Fin must be checked by that, or a
nominative DP (that has valued its [u-T] with T), or an auxiliary. Their
reasoning starts with the oft-noted difference between subject and
object wh-elements. In (18), who moves to the Spec of the CP without
the need for an auxiliary to be added, whereas, in (19), both what and
an auxiliary appear in the CP.
(18) Who bought the book?
(19) What did he buy?
The reason Pesetsky and Torrego give for this difference between subject
and object wh-movement is that C has [u-T] and [u-wh] features, and that
movingwho satisfiesbothfeatures,but that movingwhat satisfiesonly the
[u-wh]. As a result, the auxiliary has to check the [u-T] in (19) but not in (18).
They account for the that-trace effect in a similar way. As is well
known, (20) and (21) are grammatical, but (22) is not, at least in some
varieties of English.
(20) Who did John say [who will buy the book]?
(21) What did John say [what (that) he will buy]?
(22) *Who did John say [who that will buy the book]?
Various explanations have been given over the years. Pesetsky and
Torrego argue that the complementizer that is a T that moves to C,
156 T H E C P-L A Y E R
checking [u-T] and [u-wh] features of the embedded C. In (20), who
checks both [u-T] and [u-wh]; in (21), what checks the [u-wh] and that
the [u-T]. The ungrammaticality of (22) follows from the fact that who
can check both [u-T] and [u-wh] features, rendering that superfluous.
I’ll leave the derivations given by Pesetsky and Torrego in (23) to (25)
for you to look at and do not go into this issue further. In the
years to come, the that-trace data will no doubt be given another
analysis, because there are a lot of language-specific assumptions in
Pesetsky and Torrego’s proposal.
(23) Whoi did John say [CP [who +wh, uT]i [C, uT, uWh] [IP whoi willj buy the book]]?
(24) *Whoi did John say [CP [who +wh, uT]i [T that]j+[C, uT, uWh] [IP whoi willj buy the
book]]?
(25) Whati did John say [CP whati [T that]j+[C, uT, uWh] [IP Mary willj buy whati]]?
What I would like to stress in this section are the features of that
and where they come from. Cross-linguistically, many complemen-
tizers derive from demonstratives, and demonstratives are
acquired before complementizers. This cannot be a coincidence.
The most salient features of a demonstrative are deictic features
and phi-features. I have argued elsewhere (van Gelderen 2011) that
the T feature of the complementizer that derives from the deictic
features of the demonstrative, as in (26). In English, the
phi-features of C are inherited by T, but in many languages the C
checks agreement, as we’ll see in Section 5.5, and C has
phi-features as well as T features.
(26) Demonstrative > complementizer
[i-loc] [u-T]
[i-phi] ([u-phi])
That can of course also be used in subjunctive clauses, as in (27a). In
these – now uncommon in English – that selects a TP without tense or
agreement features. It may be the case that there is no split CP because
(27b) is impossible. A possible tree is given in (28).
(27) a. I suggest (that) you read this book.
b. *I suggest that this book you read (it).
The features, position, and transparency of complementizers 157
(28) VP
V CP
suggest
[irrealis] C TP
that
[u-mood] you T’
T VP
[u-mood] V
[i-irr]
The word for is very versatile and has an interesting history, starting
out as a spatial preposition, then temporal preposition, then as a
purposive non-finite complementizer, a causal finite complemen-
tizer, and now a general non-finite complementizer, as in (29), with
a tree as in (30).
(29) I would like for you to do your homework.
(30) ForceP
Force'
Force TP
[u-mood]
for T'
T VP
[u-mood] V
to [i-irr]
In Chapter 1, I show that children first acquire the preposition and
then the complementizer use of for. This suggests that they first
acquire semantic and interpretable features before figuring out that
they can use the same lexical items but with fewer features.
The origin of whether is complex. In Old English, it is used as a comple-
mentizer, as an adverb with the meaning of ‘however,’ and as a yes/no
marker. The first two functions are shown in (31) and the third in (32).
158 T H E C P-L A Y E R
(31) nast ðu hwæðer beoð þæs rican mannes ban. Hwæðer þæs þearfan
not.know you whether be of.that rich man’s bone or of.that poor
‘Don’t you know if they are of the rich man’s bone or of the poor man’s?’
(Aelfric, Homilies I, Thorpe 256, Clemoes, p. 324)
(32) Hwæðer þara tweȝra dyde þæs fæder willan?
which the.GEN two did the.GEN father will
‘Which of the two did the father’s will?’ (Anglo Saxon Gospel, Matthew xxi. 31)
The origin of whether, according to the OED, is a comparative pronoun,
which is still visible in Old English (32). It keeps the interrogative use,
as in (33), until the eighteenth century and the complementizer use
till the present.
(33) Whether doth doubting consist in embracing the affirmative or negative side of a
question?
‘Does doubting consist of embracing the affirmative or negative side of a
question?’ (Berkeley, Hylas I, 173, 10 from 1713)
So, the original features suggest a polar question ‘which of the two,’
which is then reanalyzed as an interrogative complementizer and yes/
no marker.
The origin of while is a noun, used as an adverbial in Old English (34),
and this use continues up to the present time. By late Old English, it is
used as in (35), and it acquires its modern shape in early Middle English.
(34) Lytle hwile sceolde he his lifes niotan
little while should he his life enjoy
‘For a little while he might enjoy this life.’ (Junius, Genesis 486)
(35) Eall hie us þyncað þy leohtran ða hwile þe þa oncras fæste bioð
All they us seem the lighter the while that the anchors fast are
‘They all seem the lighter to us, as long as the anchors are fast.’
(Alfred, Boethius x, Sedgefield 23, 14–15)
In present-day English, while is used as a temporal adverbial, as in (36),
and as a CP adverbial, as in (37), synonymous with although. The two
uses are sometimes referred to as central and peripheral adverbials,
respectively.
(36) He mowed the lawn while it rained.
(37) While we understand a lot . . .
If we want to phrase the difference in terms of the features, they are
durative in (36) and adversative in (37). In Cinque’s tree, the central
one would be in the VP, and the peripheral use isn’t listed in the
Universal Hierarchy of Chapter 4.
The features, position, and transparency of complementizers 159
Having looked at some of the features, we now will look at the exact
positions of some of the complementizers, i.e. how we know if they
are in Force or in Fin.
5.2.2 Complementizer positions nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Often, for reasons of convenience, we assume that the complemen-
tizers in 5.2.1 are in C. When we talked about the split CP, we identi-
fied the high Force and the lower Fin, and we should therefore look
more carefully at the exact position of the Cs. I will show they can be in
Force, or in Fin, or move from Force to Fin.
Rizzi maintains that, in Italian, the finite complementizer che is in
Force, but that the infinitival di occupies Fin. The evidence for this
comes from topicalization and left dislocation. The finite complemen-
tizer che precedes the Topic, as in (38), whereas the infinitival one
follows di, as in (39), both from Rizzi (1997: 288).
(38) Credo che il tuo libro, loro lo apprezzerebbero molto
believe that the your book they it appreciate much
‘I believe that they would appreciate your book a lot.’
(39) Credo, il tuo libro, di apprezzarlo molto
believe the your book for appreciate-it much
‘I believe I like your book very much.’ (Chiara Lage p.c.).
A tree for a sentence such as (38) would look like (40), where I have
added features.
(40) VP
V ForceP
credo
[realis] Force'
Force TopicP
che
[u-mood] il tuo libro Topic'
[u-T]
Topic \TP
T loro lo ....
[u-T]
160 T H E C P-L A Y E R
Poletto (2000: 129) says that speakers accept che on the other side of
the topic as well, which may mean optional movement of che from Fin
to Force.
The English finite complementizers that and for behave like che, as
(41) (taken from McCloskey 1991) and (42) show, and allow topicaliza-
tion (though not doubling, as indicated in brackets). That shows both
Cs are in Force.
(41) She maintains that Irish stew she sort of likes (*it).
(42) I am buying spicy ingredients for Hungarian stew I sort of like (*it).
Historically, finite for has probably always been in a high position. It is
first attested as a finite complementizer around 1200, and, since
topics and adverbs follow for, the latter is in Force in (43) and (44).
That is now in Force, but in Fin probably until about 1500, as (45)
shows, with when preceding that.
(43) For hardely I hym heete
‘For indeed I threaten him.’ (York Plays, 11, 286).
(44) For frenshippe we haue foune
‘Because friendship we have (indeed) found.’ (York Plays, 10, 12).
(45) She loved Arcite so | That [when that he was absent any throwe]
Anon her thoghte her herte brast a-two
‘She loved Arcite so much that when he was absent she thought her heart
would break.’ (Chaucer, Anelida and Arcite 377.92–94).
Further evidence for for in ForceP and that in FinP between 1200 and
1500 is the frequent occurrence of for that, as in (46).
(46) and forþi we clepeð him fader for þat he us feide here
and therefore we call him father because that he us fed here
‘and we call him father because he fed us here’ (Trinity Homilies HC-ME1).
Compatibility with an embedded topic is less grammatical for factive
verbs, as in (47), and for non-finite for, as in (48).
(47) *I regret that Irish stew she likes. (from McCloskey)
(48) a. *I expect for your homework you to do.
b. *I expect your homework for you to do.
In Chapter 2, I suggested a structure of a bare CP for factives in English.
That would explain the ungrammaticality of (47). The reason for (48a)
to be ungrammatical is that you cannot be case-marked by for, and for
(48b) to be ungrammatical the reason is that for is in the ForceP and
cannot have a Topic higher than Force.
The features, position, and transparency of complementizers 161
The position of the other complementizers is less easy to see. I will
test the possibilities with whether and while but leave the others in
Table 5.1 for you to check. Many clauses probably do not distinguish
Force from Fin, i.e. may not split their CP.
Whether isn’t considered a head since it can be augmented by “or
not.” Using a simple CP, that means it is in the specifier of a CP, and wh-
movement across it is expectedly blocked, as (49) shows, unlike in the
case of that, as in (50).
(49) *Who did you wonder whether he met who?
(50) Who did you think that he met who?
Using a split CP, however, whether also occupies the specifier position
that the wh-element moves through and blocks wh-movement that
way. Since whether is quite high, as (51) shows, i.e. above a Topic and
that, it would have to move to Force as well. This is shown in (52).
(51) I just wondered whether that [as a next step] we might look to see why this
seems to be the case. (CSE-FACMT97)
(52) VP
V ForceP
wonder
whether Force’
Force TopP
that
PP Top’
as a next step
whether
Top FocP
Foc’
Foc FinP
As we saw above, the complementizer while has two functions, a
durative one and an adversative one. The former is not compatible
with embedded topics and may therefore be an unsplit CP; the latter
has topics and so might be in the head of the ForceP.
162 T H E C P-L A Y E R
We’ll now turn to cases where the C isn’t present and the T is
therefore “defective.” These are clauses that are very transparent.
5.2.3 Transparent clauses and defective T nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
So far, most of our trees have had a CP and TP. However, in Chapter 2 we
looked at clauses that lack a C or an independent tense or subject, and we
called them transparent. Here, we’ll examine two transparent construc-
tions in English, namely ECM and Raising constructions, in more detail.
Chomsky (2000: 102; 2007: 20) argues that the T inherits the phi-
and T features from C in main clauses and finite clauses. If T is selected
by C, it will have case and phi-features and be a probe; if T is selected
by a higher V, it will be defective, although it has EPP features. The phi-
features and tense features are inherited by T, making it a probe; if C
isn’t there, the features cannot be inherited and the T is defective.
Let’s look at an ECM construction in (53) with a tree as in (54), where I
ignore the exact structure of the VP, the split CP, and the mood features
in the embedded clause. In (54a), I show the features before valuation
and, in (54b), after valuation, with the derivation going bottom to top.
(53) We believe them to be nice. = ECM
(54a) Before valuation
a. CP
C TP
[phi/tense]
We T’
inheritance T vP
[u-phi]
[u-T] we
them
v’
[i-1P]
[u-Case] v TP
believe
[u-phi] them T’
[u-obj] [u-Case]
[i-pres] [i-3P] T vP
[EPP]
to v’
be nice
The features, position, and transparency of complementizers 163
(54b) After valuation
b. CP
C TP
[phi/tense]
We T’
inheritance T vP
[u-phi: 1P]
[u-T: pres] we v’
[i-1P]
[u-Case: NOM] v TP
believe
[u-phi: 3P] them T’
[u-obj] [u-Case: ACC]
[i-pres] [i-3P] T vP
to
[EPP] them be nice
Ignoring the beginning of the derivation, them merges with the v at
one point and moves to the Spec of the TP because T has EPP
features, but this defective T cannot value the case on them. Once
the higher v is merged, this v is a probe and values its own phi-
features, and them values its case. The T of the higher clause is not
defective, so its subject can be valued in the way familiar from
Chapters 1 and 4.
Let’s now look at a Raising construction, such as the
Chomskian (55), with a tree before valuation in (56a) and after in
(56b). Again, I simplify the tree for reasons of space and ignore the
passive.
(55) Several prizes are likely to be awarded.
164 T H E C P-L A Y E R
(56a) Before valuation
a. CP
C TP
[phi/tense]
DP T’
Several prizes T VP
[u-phi]
[u-T] DP
are
V’
[EPP] [i-3P]
[u-Case]V AP
[i-pres]A TP
likely
T’
T vP
[EPP]
to DP be awarded
(56b) After valuation
b. CP
C TP
[phi/tense]
DP T’
Several prizes T VP
[u-phi:3P]
[u-T: pres] DP V’
[EPP] [i-3P]
[u-Case: NOM]
[i-pres]A
V AP
are
likely
TP
DP T’
to be awarded
several prizes
In (56), after the DP several prizes merges with the vP, and the defective
T to is merged but only triggers the movement of the DP to the Spec of
the lower TP. There are no features checked, so the DP remains
unchecked and active. The higher predicate be likely happens to be
adjectival, i.e. without a full set of features. The T of the main clause
therefore ends up being the probe for the DP several prizes, mutually
valuing the case and phi-features, and finally the DP moves to the Spec
of the highest TP for EPP checking.
In this section, we have discussed the most obvious component of
the CP-Layer, namely the complementizer. We looked at the features
of a few in more detail and also at the exact position. Embedded Cs can
be absent and we looked what happened in ECM and Raising cases.
The choice of C is connected to mood, although in main clauses the
choice of mood is often not visible. We’ll turn to mood now.
5 . 3 M O O D AN D C P A D V ER B S
The TP-Layer involves auxiliaries, adverbials, and grammatical roles; the
CP-Layer includes mood, and focus and topic heads, as well as adver-
bials. In Section 5.3.1, we’ll examine mood and in 5.3.2 CP adverbials.
5.3.1 Mood nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In this section, we’ll talk about the characteristics of the main moods
in English, namely the indicative, interrogative, imperative, and
exclamative moods.
The declarative or indicative mood is not usually marked overtly,
except that the verb has to be finite in those languages that mark
finiteness. The indicative is a realis mood, as opposed to the irrealis of
the other moods. We have seen sentences with the indicative mood, and
I have represented it by [i-ind] and [u-T] on C. Using a split CP, the [i-ind]
feature is represented on the Force head and the [u-T] is in the Fin head.
The interrogative mood is overtly marked in most languages in the
left-periphery or by intonation. English is a good example where ques-
tions involve the fronting of wh-words or auxiliaries or both to the CP.
Some wh-questions are provided in (57) and (58), where the crossed-out
copies tell you the original position of the moved wh-elements.
(57) Where will you move where?
(58) Where did you say that she went where?
The tree for (57) is given in (59). I have put the interrogative features [i-Q]
in the ForceP because it is a main clause. Unlike Rizzi, I will argue that the
166 T H E C P-L A Y E R
wh-element moves only as far as Spec FocusP. The evidence for this move-
ment is that wh-questions and Focus have a lot in common. In both cases
the verb moves and in both a variable is left, as we’ll see in Section 5.4.
(59) ForceP
Force FocP
[i-Q]
where Foc’
Foc FinP
[u-wh]
will Fin
[u-T]
The derivation of (58) is more complex. The wh-word originates in the
subordinate clause and needs to move using small steps, as we’ve
briefly seen in Chapter 1 when we discussed phases.
The left-periphery marks questions in a number of head-final lan-
guages as well, such as Urdu/Hindi (60). The lack of verb movement
shows the particle is in the relevant head position.
(60) Kya ram ja-ta he
˛? Urdu/Hindi
Q ram go-3SM AUX
‘Is Ram going?’
Imperative mood is marked overtly in English and many other lan-
guages, and here too it is assumed that the CP-Layer is responsible for
the features. There are still many unresolved issues. For instance, we
are not sure where the optional subject is and if the imperative do
moves to the CP.
Imperatives often “hide” their subjects, as in (61), have an optional
do, as in (62), show restricted use of mood adverbials, as in (63), and are
not embeddable, as (64) shows.
(61) a. You, be off!
b. Be off!
(62) (Do) be off!
(63) *Unfortunately be off!
(64) *I want that be off.
Mood and CP adverbs 167
Because the imperative verb has so little inflection, Platzack and
Rosengren (1998: 193) argue that the structure of an imperative is
without a FinP, TP, or MoodP. As Potsdam (1998) shows, however,
the subject of an imperative in (65a) seems to be in the same position
as the subject of a finite clause in (65b). In these sentences, the
quantifier both indicates the base position of the subject in Spec vP,
although (65b) is pragmatically a little odd.
(65) a. You be both waiting for me promptly at three!
b. You are both waiting for me. (from Potsdam 1998)
Thus, the question is where is you in (61a) and (65a)? Platzack and
Rosengren argue that you is the subject of the light verb do, which is
covert in these sentences but overt in (66). When do is overt, as in
(67), the pause between you and the rest of the sentence is longer,
indicating it is a topic that is fairly far on the left and not in Spec vP.
(66) Do be off!
(67) You, do be off!
So, it looks like the do is in v and moves to a position in C, as in (68),
which I have labeled as Force, but which may be lower, as (69) gives
evidence for.
(68) ForceP (or a lower C)
Force vP
(DP) v’
v VP
do
V PP
wait for me
(69) The tie, you give it to Bill. (adapted from Potsdam)
Interestingly, the type of topic is very important in (69). If I add what
we’ll see is a Hanging Topic (HT), as in (70a), or a non-doubled topic, as
in (70b), this results in ungrammaticality for most speakers.
(70) a. *As for the tie, you give it to Bill.
b. *The tie, you give to Bill! (unless it is in a list)
168 T H E C P-L A Y E R
Since (69) is grammatical, the ungrammaticality of (70ab) must have to
do with the absence of certain projections, e.g. the FinP may be
involved in hosting the topic in (70b).
What happens with the auxiliaries in sentences such as (64) if there
is no TP-Layer? There could be an ASPP between ForceP and vP or
inside of the vP. Evidence for this position is given in (71), where the
do is optional. Auxiliaries in imperative constructions work quite
differently from those in finite clauses since they are not moving to
T to check agreement, as (72) shows.
(71) (Please,) do be waiting for me at three!
(72) *Be not waiting!
As I said, imperatives pose many challenges. We don’t know what the
function of do is, where it moves to, and where the optional subject is
situated.
Having looked at the three most common clause types, we’ll briefly
discuss English exclamatives. If we assume that English exclamatives
are located higher in the CP-Layer than wh-elements are, we derive the
fact that they do not trigger verb movement. Interrogatives trigger verb
movement to the CP in most languages, as (59) above shows, but other
clause types do not always trigger verb movement, as we know from
English topics in (73). Exclamatives are similar to topics, as (74) shows.
(73) Broccoli, I hate (it)!
(74) How lovely that car is!
The reason for the non-inversion is because the verb isn’t moving so
high, as in (75) for (74).
(75) ForceP
Force ExclP
AP Excl
How lovely
Excl TP
DP T’
that car
T VP
V AP
is how lovely
Mood and CP adverbs 169
I use an Excl(amative)P(hrase), but it could be a special topic position
as well. Unique about exclamatives is that they only prepose phrases
with how and what in English, and in many languages, e.g. Arabic,
exclamatives have a special ending.
So, mood in the main clause is represented through features
on the Force. Indicatives need not move, but wh-questions, topics,
and exclamatives do, although not all of them trigger verb
movement.
I’ll now turn to mood in the embedded clause. Although we’ve
already seen some of this before, here we focus on mood using the
split CP. Embedded clauses typically have a more condensed CP-Layer
because their mood and tense usually depends on that of the main
clause. This means they cannot mark all clause types, e.g. the imper-
ative, as (63) above shows, repeated here as (76a), and the indicative, as
in (76b).
(76) a. *I want that be off.
b. *I want that he goes.
Indicatives are grammatical after certain verbs, but, as I show in
Chapter 2, there are major restrictions, and many verbs prefer non-
finite and irrealis clauses. How is the mood represented in the embed-
ded split CP?
As mentioned in Chapter 2, we mainly focus our attention on
embedded argument clauses in this book. Because adverbials are
interesting in their abilities to expand the CP, we’ll add a little more
on them here. Haegeman (2006) argues there is a difference between
central and peripheral adverbial clauses. The former structure the
event, as in (77), whereas the latter structure the discourse, as in
(78). While can have both functions, but some complementizers are
specialized for either one of the two functions.
(77) These men worked for Clinton, [while he was governor].
(78) [While his support for women priests might label him a liberal], this
would be a misleading way to represent him. (both adapted from
Haegeman 2006: 29)
Central adverbials cannot include markers of mood, since they are
more closely connected with the main clause, as (79) shows, whereas
peripheral adverbials can, as the might in (78) shows.
(79) *These men worked for Clinton, [while he may have been governor].
Having discussed the representation of grammatical mood, I turn to
adverbs, also responsible for mood but lexicalized.
170 T H E C P-L A Y E R
5.3.2 Adverbials nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
In addition to sentence type, mood adverbs need to be accommodated
in the CP: speech-act adverbs (frankly, honestly), evaluatives ((un)fortu-
nately), evidential adverbs (allegedly, evidently), and modal affixes in
certain languages. The full range of the CP adverbs is given in (80). I
have added the epistemic TP adverb as well.
(80) Mood speech act Mood evaluative Mood evidential Mod epistemic
Frankly fortunately allegedly probably
(from Cinque 1999: 107)
Cinque (1999) does not use Rizzi’s categories, but, testing the compat-
ibility of these adverbs with topics and focus, one finds (81) and (82).
Even though (81) seems slightly odd, it is acceptable to native speak-
ers, with the speech-act adverb honestly in ForceP and those books in the
topic. (82) nevertheless presents a problem in Cinque’s approach,
since the speech-act adverb frankly is higher in the tree than the
evaluative, evidential adverb surprisingly, but, unexpectedly, the two
cannot occur together in (82).
(81) ?Honestly, those books, he should have read (them) before class.
(82) *Frankly, surprisingly, he read those books.
The examples Cinque gives with multiple adverbs are as in (83), but
here one of the adverbs is inside the TP.
(83) Honestly, I am unfortunately unable to help you. (Cinque 1999: 33)
This lack of multiple adverbs and the reluctance by native speakers to
have a topic and wh-element in the same sentence suggest that the
English CP is restricted. In the 100 million-word BNC, frankly and
fortunately never co-occur; nor do fortunately and allegedly, or allegedly
and frankly (even though the adverbs occur frequently by themselves).
The same is true in the four-times larger COCA corpus.
This restriction on multiple adverbials is also true for subordi-
nate clauses, but, as (84) and (85) show, adverbials and topics do
co-occur.
(84) I actually think that fortunately with all the different media that we have,
people have the choice of both of those. (COCA 2000 CNN)
(85) McCain: Oh, I think that frankly any person who’s the vice-presidential
nominee, it’s his job, his or her job to get along with – with the
nominee. (COCA 2000 ABC)
Mood and CP adverbs 171
In (84) and (85), the adverbial precedes a topic, which in the case of (85)
is actually a left-dislocated topic and therefore quite high, as we’ll see
in the next section.
To finish this section, I’ll give Haumann’s (2007: 408) tree which
combines the topic and focus positions and the adverbials. She has a
slightly different Cartography from Rizzi because of the Prominence
Phrase (or PromP) for the preposed adverbials.
(86) ForceP
that SpeechActP
frankly SpeechAct'
SpeechAct TopP = CP Layer
Top'
Top FocP
(they)
Foc'
Foc PromP
last year Prom'
Prom FinP
... TP
I provide this tree to accustom the reader to a variety of trees but will
suggest a tree using special layers later on.
5 . 4 T O P I C A N D F O C U S
In this section, we examine the specific pragmatic roles that DPs
can have when they are topic and focus. They can bear these roles
172 T H E C P-L A Y E R
in the main clause as well as in the embedded clause, but, cross-
linguistically, their occurrence is more restricted in the subordinate
clause. Much of the current work gets its inspiration and basis from
work in the more functionalist literature, in particular work by Tom
Givón (e.g. 1983) and Ellen Prince (e.g. 1981).
First, in Section 5.4.1, I give a very basic definition of topic and focus
and then, in Section 5.4.2, I go into some debates on how to label the
various topics that have been identified in languages such as Italian,
German, and Chinese. Finally, in Section 5.4.3, we discuss differences
in topic and focus placement between the main and embedded clause
in English.
5.4.1 Topic and focus nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
The main difference between topic and focus is providing old infor-
mation and new information, respectively. Old and new information
can be put in terms of theme and rheme (Abraham 1995) or back-
grounded and foregrounded as well. Topics are definite and they may
have a pronoun double or epithet in the main clause, as in (87).
(87) a. That guy, I hate him.
b. That guy, I hate the idiot.
A focus is often prosodically marked, indicated by small caps, and
provides the answer to a wh-question, as in (88).
(88) Q What did you bring yesterday?
A I brought COOKIES.
The answer in (89) to the same question is pragmatically strange (indi-
cated by a #) because the focus in English is not usually the first element.
(89) A #COOKIES I brought.
(Certain) topics in English can be preceded by as for, as in (90), and
focus by only, as in (91). Focus also appears in a cleft, as in (92), or
pseudo-cleft, as in (93).
(90) As for me, I am rooting for my beloved Red Sox to win the World Series.
(www.was.org/Usas/USChapter_files/Newsletter/October04.pdf)
(91) I brought only cookies!
(92) It was cookies I brought.
(93) What I brought was cookies.
Topics are either base generated in the CP-Layer or moved there, but
focus-elements are always moved.
Topic and focus 173
Focus movement leaves a variable, as in (94a), so that it is inter-
preted as in (94b) (adapted from Chomsky 1977a: 203–204).
(94) a. Beans, I like.
b. The x such that I like x – is beans.
This variable is similar to that left in wh- movement, as in (95), and in
quantifier movement, as in (96).
(95) a. What do I like?
b. Which x, x an entity, I like x.
(96) a. Every banker has his reasons.
b. For all x, x a banker, x has his reasons.
The final distinction between topic and focus is of course the word
order. As we’ve already seen, the topic doesn’t bring about movement
of the verb to the CP-Layer, but the focus, when it is overtly positioned
in the CP, does. That makes the focus and the wh-element similar.
We’ll now look at more complex distinctions that have been made.
5.4.2 Labels for topic and focus nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
So much for the relatively simple contrast between topic and focus.
We can make finer distinctions in topic and also in focus.
Over the last fifteen years, there have been many proposals for finer
splits among topics. For instance, you might see the terms contrastive
topic, hanging topic, left dislocation, framing or frame-setting topic,
aboutness topic, shifting topic, familiar topic, given topic, and con-
tinuing topic. These terms appear because languages have different
strategies. Rather than go through the many proposals, I will synthe-
size the work and come up with a set of criteria that we can use.
However, when you read a proposal in the literature, the terms may
not completely agree with the ones I am using and how I use them.
I will suggest, in the spirit of Benincà and Poletto (2004: 71), that the
Cartography should express frame, Theme/given, and then focus ele-
ments. This is also based on insights from the functionalist literature.
Even though a distinction is made between contrastive topic and
contrastive focus, this is practically hard to distinguish, as indicated
in (97). Note that the Theme here is different from that in Chapter 3!
(97) Frame/Scene – Theme/Given – Contrastive Topic/Focus
Cinque (1990) and others provide criteria to differentiate between the
various topics. These are: (a) whether or not they move to the CP-Layer
or are base generated there; (b) if a pronoun or epithet appears in the
clause and if the case is different; (c) what phrase the topic is (DP or PP);
174 T H E C P-L A Y E R
and (d) whether or not the topic is recursive. These differences have
led people to suggest different positions in the CP: Some topics are
situated above the Force and some below.
Table 5.2 lists some of the differences between two different types of
topic. The left-most sets the scene and is sometimes referred to as the
Frame or the HT; the one in the “middle” of the CP provides the old
information, i.e. what the conversation is about, and is therefore
referred to as Given, Theme, Left-dislocated, or topicalized. Some lan-
guages may split these areas, but I am trying to generalize. I have also
added island-sensitivity, which is relevant to predicting movement.
We’ll now look at some examples and then decide which they are.
The topic in (98) is a Frame because: (a) there is a pronoun with a
nominative case (I) that refers back to the topic but is different from
the accusative case of the topic; (b) the topic is a DP; and (c) there
cannot be more than one of this particular topic, as (99) shows.
(98) Me, I’ve been a night person longer than I can remember. (BNC-GVL 335)
(99) *(As for) me, (as for) you, they didn’t like us.
These characteristics suggest that the topic is base generated in a
relatively high position.
In contrast to (98), (100) lacks a doubled pronoun, so can’t be a
Frame. It cannot be extracted from an island, as (101) shows, and is
therefore moved to the CP-Layer. As a result, it is a given topic or a
contrastive topic, depending on the pitch.
(100) That man, I hate.
(101) *That man, I heard the rumor that she met.
The Frame vs. Theme is often tested in situations such as (102). In
(102), we have a topic that is given in the question, i.e. the Theme Mary,
Table 5.2 Two different Topics
Frame/Scene Theme/Given
Position Above ForceP below ForceP
pronoun obligatory optional
same case no yes
DP or PP only DP DP or PP
recursion no no/yes
Island
Sensitive no yes
Topic and focus 175
and therefore typically does not set the scene, as the pragmatic awk-
wardness of (102b) shows.
(102) What can you tell me about Mary?
a. About Mary I know nothing! = Theme
b. #As for Mary, she loves to eat! = Frame
Hence, having the PP about Mary is ok in (102a) because that is typical
for a given/Theme topic, but the as for, typical for a Frame topic, is not
grammatical.
German has the possibility of (103) and (104). In (103), the case of the
topic and the doubled pronoun is the same, so the topic is more
connected to the clause, whereas the topic in (104) has a different
case and is more of a Frame.
(103) Den Knud, den mag jeder. = Theme German
The.ACC Knud, that.ACC likes everyone
‘Knut, everyone likes (him).’
(104) Der Knud, den mag jeder. = Frame German
The.NOM Knud, that.ACC likes everyone
‘As for Knut, everyone likes him.’ (adapted from Frey)
Frey (2003: 12) gives the following data from German in which Hans is
first introduced and continues the topic in (105a). The Frame construc-
tion in (105b) shifts the topic, which makes no sense in the context
and is therefore strange (indicated by #).
(105) Ich habe etwas in der Zeitung über Hans gelesen German
I have something in the newspaper about Hans read
‘I have read something in the paper about Hans.’
a. Den Hans, den will der Minister zum Botschafter
the.ACC Hans that.ACC wants the minister to ambassador
ernennen = Theme
appoint.
‘The minister wants to appoint Hans ambassador.’
b. #Der Hans, der Minister will ihn zum Botschafter
the.NOM Hans the minister wants him to ambassador
ernennen = Frame
appoint.
‘The minister wants to appoint Hans ambassador.’
In Italian, we have (106) and (107). In (106), a PP appears which shows
that the phrase moved.
(106) A Leo (gli) parlerò domani. = Theme Italian
to Leo to.him talk.FUT.1SG tomorrow
‘I will talk to Leo tomorrow.’ (Frascarelli 2007: 698)
176 T H E C P-L A Y E R
(107) Leo gli parlerò domani = possible Frame Italian
Leo to.him talk.FUT.1SG tomorrow
‘Leo, I will talk to him tomorrow.’
Though the distinction between high and low topic may seem
straightforward in the examples given so far, there is a lot of debate,
especially about the function of each of the topics. The trouble is that
most of these distinctions can only be seen in languages other than
English. I’ll therefore discuss that more in Section 5.5.
Turning to focus, it has only one position in (15), but here too there
have been proposals for more than one type of focus, e.g. Kiss (1998)
has identificational and information focus, where identificational
focus is exhaustive, as in the clefted (108). This focus is also called
contrastive and is making a selection from a limited set of answers.
(108) Q Who did Mary dance with at the party?
A It was BILL she danced with.
Informational focus need not be exhaustive but can be the answer
to a regular wh-question, and is then often called ordinary focus.
Benincà (2001) and Benincà and Poletto (2004) similarly divide the
focus into what they refer to as contrastive and informational, with
the former giving a contrast or correction and the latter the answer to
a wh-question. (109) shows that the two kinds of focus are in different
positions, but only one focus can be expressed per sentence.
(109) [[HT][[Scene Setting] [[LD] [[Contr Focus] [[Inf Focus]]]]]]]
(adapted from Benincà and Poletto 2004: 71)
Again try to think of this in terms of high and low focus, and don’t get
too into all the different terms for topics.
Belletti (2001; 2004) argues that the high contrastive focus is in the
CP but that the information focus is just above the vP, as in (110).
(110) Q Chi ha parlato? Italian
Who has spoken
‘Who spoke?’
A a. Ha parlato Gianni = Information Focus
has spoken Gianni
b. #GIANNI ha parlato = Contrastive Focus
Gianni has spoken
‘Gianni spoke.’ (Belletti 2001: 3)
English uses clefts, as in (108), and intonation to indicate focus.
Languages in which both topic and focus can appear sentence-initially
display the sequence of (15), e.g. (111) from Bulgarian.
Topic and focus 177
(111) Filma Marija li gleda Bulgarian
film Marija FOC watch
‘As for the film, is it Marija who is watching it’?
In (111), the topic is filma and the focus is Marija. The focus is always
followed by li. This means li is in the head and the focused DP is in the
Spec of FocusP.
Chomsky (1971; 1976) and Jackendoff (1972) argue for focus move-
ment, as I have shown before. Chomsky argues that focus-elements are
like quantifiers and wh-elements, and introduce an operator-variable
chain at LF. The evidence for the actual movement of the focus is weak
crossover. In (112a), he cannot refer to John because John is a focus, but
in (112b) it can, because John isn’t a focus. The reason for the difference
is that a pronoun may not be bound by an antecedent to its left, and
only if John moves is the pronoun preceded and hence ill-formed.
(112) a. *The woman he loved betrayed JOHN. (with he and John coreferential)
b. The woman he loved beTRAyed John.
In (113) and (114), the movement of the wh-element and quantifier,
respectively, result in having the pronoun he be preceded by its ante-
cedent. There are a number of ways to make this precedence condition
more principled, but I won’t do that here.
(113) *who did his mother see who. (if who and his are coreferential)
(114) *Everyone their mother loves everyone. (if everyone and his are coreferential)
Concluding, the main difference between a topic and focus is that the
latter moves and leaves a variable; topics may move or be base generated
in the CP-Layer. The placement of both topic and focus elements to the
left of the matrix subject and verb is possible in many languages. Multiple
topics are also possible, although English generally restricts it to one.
5.4.3 Topic and focus in the main vs. the embedded clause nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
So far most of our examples of topic and focus have been from the
main clause. Notice, however, the differences in word order between
main and embedded clauses, as in (115) and (116). The auxiliary should
is in the “best” position, according to my informants, and I have also
put to in if it made it better.
(115) a. Leonard what should we give (him) on his retirement?
b. *What Leonard should we give (him) on his retirement?
(116) a. I wonder what to Leonard we should give.
b. *I wonder to Leonard what should we give.
178 T H E C P-L A Y E R
The word order in (115a) is expected if the topic position that Leonard
occupies is a position higher than the FocP, i.e. the position what
occupies. Movement by what to ForceP leads to ungrammaticality, as
(115b) shows. In the embedded clause, the wh-element is best in a
higher (Force) position, as (116ab) show. See also Radford (2009: 328–
329) for more sentences showing the asymmetry between main and
subordinate clause as to where the wh-element is. In main clauses, it is
in a relatively low position, indicating that it is asking about new/focal
information; in subordinate clauses, it is in the ForceP.
As for complement clauses to factive verbs, Haegeman (2006: 37)
claims that they lack a Force because they presuppose something but
do not make an assertion. A Topic and Focus depend on having a Force,
and therefore (117) is ungrammatical.
(117) *I regret that this book they don’t sell.
Above, I suggested that factives have a CP only, and that boils down to
the same.
In English, the infinitival complementizer for in (118) is similar to
Italian di in (39) in that a topic cannot follow it. The reason is that for
needs to be adjacent to the subject for case reasons. However, it is
unlike di in that a topic cannot precede it either, as the ungrammati-
cality of (119) shows. This is unexpected if for is in Fin.
(118) *I expect for [her homework] her to do.
(119) *I expected [her homework] for her to do.
If we test the position with other non-finite complementizers, the
result is the same, i.e. topics cannot precede them, as in (120) and
(121), or follow them, as in (122), where the crossed-through words
indicate the original position of the topic.
(120) *He swam the channel [to England] in order to get to England.
(121) *I wonder [to Alaska] whether to go to Alaska.
(122) *I wonder whether [to Timbuctoo] to go to Timbuctoo.
Thus, non-finite complementizers in English do not fit readily in the
expanded CP. It seems as if only the non-finite complementizer can be
present, not a topic or focus. As we’ll see in the next section, only finite
clauses have multiple complementizers as well. This is indicative of
their reduced clausal status.
In connection to the mood in an embedded clause, I mentioned in
Sections 5.2.1 and 5.3.1 that central adverbials are the most restricted.
Topic and focus 179
McCloskey (2006) notes an interesting point about complementizers
that can have a topic and those that can’t. If we look at (123) and (124),
we see that temporal/central ones cannot, whereas clauses that mod-
ify the entire sentence can.
(123) *After [last year] she went to Paris, she became a different person.
(124) Because [many times] he doesn’t notice a difference, he is seen as insensitive.
The ones that cannot have a fronted topic are the ones that are more
integrated into the main clause and cannot express independent
mood.
In conclusion to Section 5.4, both main and embedded clauses have
a topic and focus in English, though not all native speakers like these.
Other languages are more CP-oriented than English is. Not all CPs are
split either, e.g. certain adverbial clauses and complements to factives
may not be. Focus gives new information, and topic provides old or
given information.
5 . 5 C R O S S - L I N G U I S T I C O B S E R V A T I O N S
Because English topic and focus constructions are rather limited, we
have already seen a lot of examples of focus and topic constructions
from other languages. In this section, I therefore look cross-
linguistically at complementizers, verb movement in V2 languages
and wh-questions, imperatives, and a little more on topics and focus
elements. The major point to watch for is the extent to which the CP
can be expanded.
5.5.1 Complementizers nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Complementizers of some kind or other are found in all languages.
Here I will look at multiple complementizers and at Cs that check
features. The complementizer is in Force or Fin, and, cross-
linguistically, they are variable in the CP: some languages have high
complementizers and others low.
Roussou (2000) presents evidence that Modern Greek has many
complementizers, each with a unique function. In addition to the
three complementizers oti, pu, and an, there are three particles that
occur in the low C, the future θa, the subjunctive na, and the horta-
tive as, with the latter two optionally moving to higher positions. The
combinations of these words and the use of topic and focus elements
reveal three complementizer positions, according to Roussou.
180 T H E C P-L A Y E R
Take a sentence such as (125). Since oti can either precede or follow
the topic ta mila and tha is in the lowest C, there may be three Cs. In
(126), na can only follow the topic and is in the “middle” position.
(125) nomizo (oti) ta mila (oti) ðen tha ta fai o petros Greek
think.1S that the apples (that) not FUT them eat-3S the Peter
‘I think that Peter won’t eat the apples.’ (Roussou 2000: 76)
(126) elpizo ta mila na min ta fai o petros Greek
hope.1S the apples PART not them eat the Peter
‘I hope that Peter won’t eat the apples.’
So, in addition to Force and Fin, there is a complementizer position
between the topic and the focus.
Other languages similarly have more options than English. For
instance, Dutch has several overt complementizers as well, as (127)
shows. However, it is not totally clear to me if (127) has a split CP and if
of dat are two or one.
(127) Ik weet niet wie of dat ze gaan verkiezen
I know not who if that they will elect
‘I don’t know who they’ll elect.’
I’ll now turn to inflected Cs. As mentioned above, T inherits features
from C, and in some languages these features are visible. Varieties of
Dutch, for instance, have Cs with agreement features, as (128) shows,
and so does Standard Arabic, as (130) and (131) show.
(128) Ik wist niet dat-de gij dat ging doen! (West) Brabant Dutch
I knew not that-2P you that go do
‘I didn’t know you were going to do that!’
Standard Arabic has three complementizers Ɂanna, Ɂinna, and Ɂan, and
it is most likely that the former two are checking case and agreement.
The least-marked complementizer Ɂan has a subjunctive verb follow-
ing it, whereas the former two do not allow a verb to follow them. A
typical example of a complementizer is (129), where the DP that
follows Ɂanna has accusative case.
(129) yabduu Ɂanna l-awlaad-a saafar-uu Arabic
seem that the-boys-ACC depart-3P
‘It seems that the boys departed.’ (Mohammad 1989: 121)
Ɂanna is followed by a finite clausal complement, whereas Ɂinna occurs
as a root clause or as complement of the verb qaala ‘say.’ Both show
agreement with the subject.
Cross-linguistic observations 181
(130) zaʕamtu Ɂanna-hu kataba r-risaalat-a Arabic
claimed that-3MS wrote the-letter-ACC
‘I claimed that he wrote the letter.’
(131) Ɂinna-haa qaraɁ-at al-banaat-u r-risaalat-a Arabic
that-3FS read-PST.3FS the-girls-NOM the-letter-ACC
‘Indeed, the girls have read the letter.’ (Mohammed Al-Rashed, p.c.)
In (131), -haa is an inflection that always marks for singular number, even
though its gender features are determined by the subject NP, which is, in
this instance, plural. This is reminiscent of the VS and SV asymmetry that
we discussed before, namely if there is no Spec-Head checking, number
is not checked. It is also possible for Ɂinna to be inflected for masculine
singular instead of feminine singular, i.e. Ɂinna-hu rather than Ɂinna-
haa. This suggests person features in the C, as indicated in (132).
(132) CP
C
[u-phi]
5.5.2 V to C movement and wh-movement nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
We have mentioned V2 languages frequently but not yet given an
analysis of the T to C movement that is involved. The preposed ele-
ments in these constructions are not topicalized, and the verb moves
to a fairly low CP head, namely FinP, as in (133) for the Swedish
sentence, meaning ‘He bought the book.’
(133) ForceP
Force FinP
Fin’
Fin vP
han v’
v VP
köpte boken
182 T H E C P-L A Y E R
As I mentioned, it has been widely agreed upon that V2 involves
movement to CP. After the split of the CP into Force and Fin, there is
a tacit agreement that the verb is in the Fin, but there isn’t much overt
evidence for this. The fronted phrase is not in a Focus or Topic phrase
since there are no pragmatic restrictions on this phrase, but it isn’t
clear why it couldn’t move to ForceP.
Turning to wh-questions, these differ a lot whether or not the wh-
element has to move or not. This used to be expressed as a parameter
(cf. Chapter 1). I will not go into an explanation of the differences but
just describe a few of them.
There are many languages that move one wh-element, as in English
(134). English has the option to leave the wh-element in situ, as in the
echo-question in (135).
(134) Where did you go?
(135) You went WHERE?
Echo-questions do not really ask for new information, however.
There are languages that can only leave the wh-element in situ and
where the wh-element does ask for new information. Chinese is such
an example, as (136) shows.
(136) Zhangsan yiwei Lisi mai le shinwe? Chinese
Zhangsan thinks Lisi bought PF what?
‘What does Zhangsan think Lisi bought?’
As in English, this sentence cannot mean (137), although that is
possible in both languages with the verb wonder, as (138) and (139)
show. This means the verb wonder in both languages has a wh-feature.
Even though the wh-element in Chinese doesn’t have to move to C, it
shows the same restrictions.
(137) Zhangsan thinks what Lisi bought.
(138) Zhangsan wonders what Lisi bought.
(139) Zhangsan xiang-zhidao Lisi mai le shenme Chinese
Zhangsan wonders Lisi bought PF what
‘Zhangsan wonders what Lisi bought.’ Huang (1982)
Thus, matrix clauses can licence [i-Q] freely, but, in embedded clauses,
the C has to be licensed by a higher verb.
At the other extreme, there are languages that move all
their wh-elements to the CP-Layer. An example is Macedonian,
in (140).
Cross-linguistic observations 183
(140) Koj shto na kogo e dal? Macedonian
who what to whom is given
‘Who gave what to whom?’ (Daniela Kostadinovska p.c.)
Between these two extremes, there are lots of variants. Hindi/Urdu
and German have a complex system where the scope has to be
marked, and Malay has partial movement. See the volume edited by
Lutz, Müller, and von Stechow (2000) for more.
5.3 Imperatives and the expansion of layers nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Above, we argued that imperatives lack some TP structure in English.
Cross-linguistically, they are similarly reduced. Russian, however,
marks aspect, i.e. it has perfective and imperfective imperatives, as
in (141), but this is to be expected if ASP is possible in imperatives, and
even English has (142).
(141) pishi Russian
write.IMPF.IMP.2S
‘Write!’
(142) Keep writing!
I haven’t found a tensed imperative.
In some languages, imperatives have special inflection, as in (143),
and are also inflected for the subject.
(143) iga-gi-t Greenlandic
cook-IMP-2
‘Cook (something).’ (Payne 1997: 303)
Without going into an analysis for that, it seems likely that this mood
and the agreement are marked in the CP. This is yet another sign of
how different the CP can be.
5.5.4 Topics nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Above we have discussed several types of topic. Frascarelli and
Hinterhölzel (2007: 88) argue that at least three types of topic have
to be distinguished in Italian: aboutness (or shifting), contrastive, and
familiar topics, and they occur in the following hierarchy.
(144) Aboutness-Shift Topic (ST) > Contrastive Topic (CT) > Familiar Topic (FT)
(Frascarelli and Hinterhölzel 2007: 89)
The aboutness topic is a newly introduced or newly changed-to topic;
the contrastive topic “induces alternatives which have no impact on
the focus value”; and the familiar topic is typically non-stressed and
pronominal. Evidence for the ordering is provided for Italian in (145)
and (146), where Frascarelli and Hinterhölzel use pitch levels to make
184 T H E C P-L A Y E R
a distinction between the various topics. I haven’t shown the pitch
levels, but let’s assume they are correct in their labels.
(145) Io, inglese non l’avevo mai fatto Italian = ST > FT
I English not it have never done
‘I never studied English before.’
(146) Io, una cosa che ho trovato positiva, è stata la comprensione
I, one thing that have found positive, is been the comprehension
Italian = ST >CT
‘As for me, one thing I considered positive was the comprehension part.’
(Frascarelli and Hinterhölzel 2007: 96)
In addition to these, Italian has a frame topic as well.
Frame-setting topics are very frequent in East Asian languages, as in
(147) to (149), although they even occur in English (150). Most of these
occur in very high topic positions, but, since the framing is very vague,
they cannot be repeated by means of pronouns.
(147) Pihengi-nin 747-ka khi-ta Korean
Airplane-TOP 747-SBJ big-STAT
‘As for airplanes, the 747 is big.’ (Li and Thompson 1976: 468)
(148) Hua, wo zui bu xihuan meiguihua Chinese
flowers I most not like roses
‘Among flowers, I dislike roses very much.’ (Badan and del Gobbo 2011: 78)
(149) Zhangsan, wo gei na ge shazi ji le yi feng xin Chinese
Zhangsan, I to that CL imbecile send PF one CL letter
‘Zhangsan, I sent a letter to that imbecile!’ (Badan and del Gobbo 2011: 74)
(150) Speaking of hiking, it is great living in Apache Junction.
With Frames too, we have arguments that there are several different
types. Badan and del Gobbo (2011) distinguish the HTs in (147) from the
Aboutness Topic in (148). According to Badan and del Gobbo, the main
reason to distinguish Aboutness from HT is that there is usually only
one HT and Aboutness topics can recur. I won’t give further evidence for
their claim but remind the reader of the three basic topics in (97),
repeated here as (151a) with the alternative below it in (115b), as
suggested in e.g. Frascarelli and Hinterhölzel and Badan and del Gobbo.
(151) a. Frame Theme Contrast
b. HT > ForceP > AboutnessShiftP > ContrP > FocP > FamP > FinP
What our discussion has shown is that languages differ a lot as to
where the topic is located and as to which types of topic occur. Frames
or HTs are generally high in the CP-Layer and can have as for in English;
the lower ones are sometimes referred to as Left Dislocated Topics
(LDTs); and then we also have the topics that move to the CP, and they
may be the lowest.
Cross-linguistic observations 185
5 . 6 C O N C L U S I O N
In this chapter, we have looked at the CP-Layer where clausal mood
(indicative, subjunctive, etc.) and pragmatic roles (topic and focus) are
marked. Here, I’ll come back to the issue that’s central to the book,
namely how a bottom-to-top derivation is compatible with top-to-bottom
approaches. In Chapter 4, I suggested that having scope determine
where elements are was preferable to having an innate Cartography.
Can we come up with something like that for topic and focus as well?
Frascarelli (2007) and Sigurðsson (2011) are concerned with what
licenses pro-drop and attempt to find a third-factor principle licensing
empty subjects and objects. The third factor they argue for is an Edge-
Principle. Without going into their account of pro-drop, we could
think that there is a principle that requires each DP to be connected
to a role in the CP-Layer. This would be a requirement of pragmatic
interpretation at the C-I interface. As a sentence is interpreted at the
interface, the copies of earlier positions are still visible, so that seman-
tic and grammatical roles can be identified, as well as the pragmatic
ones. While I think that the Cartographic approach outlined in this
chapter gives a great description of the CP-Layer, we need to think
along the lines of Frascarelli and Sigurðsson to explain why the order
is the way it is.
I will end with a tree for a wh-question with a topic. The interpretable
features in the Force are interpreted at C-I, the preposed PP as topic, and
the wh-element as focus. I have concentrated on the top part of the tree.
(153) ForceP
Force TopP
[i-Q]
PP Top’
About noodles Top FocP
where Foc’
[i-wh]
Foc FinP
[u-Q:wh]
will Fin TP
[u-T: fut] ...
186 T H E C P-L A Y E R
Keywords
CP, split CP, Force, Fin, left-periphery, declarative, interrogative,
imperative, exclamative, verb-second (V2), Topic, HT, Frame/Scene,
Theme/Given, Focus, double C, sentence adverbials, Raising, ECM
D I S C U S S I O N P O I N T S
1. What happens to subject wh-questions? Does the wh-element move?
What is the evidence?
(1) Who left?
2. Draw a tree for (2) and justify your choices. Add features.
(2) I asked if they could clean up.
3. In the following newspaper article, find where possible the com-
plementizers, wh-movement, T-to-C movement, topic and focus
elements, ECM and Raising verbs, and CP-adverbs.
(3) Gene scans for everyone? Not so fast. New research suggests that for the
average person, decoding your own DNA may not turn out to be a really
useful crystal ball for future health. Today, scientists map entire genomes
mostly for research, as they study which genetic mutations play a role in
different diseases. Or they use it to try to diagnose mystery illnesses that
plague families. It’s different from getting a genetic test to see if you carry,
say, a particular cancer-causing gene. But as genome mapping gets faster and
cheaper, scientists and consumers have wondered about possible broader
use: Would finding all the glitches hidden in your DNA predict which dis-
eases you’ll face decades later? Under best-case scenarios, most people would
be told they had a somewhat increased risk of at least one disease, said Dr.
Bert Vogelstein, a Hopkins cancer geneticist and the study’s senior author.
(Adopted from East Valley Tribune, April 2, 2012)
4. Some languages can have tensed imperatives (van der Wurff 2007:
21, 47–48). How would you analyze these?
(4) Had it dat maar gedaan! Dutch
Had I that but done
‘I wish I’d done that.’
5. In (Lebanese) Arabic, topicalized elements are always doubled, as in
(5). What else would you ask native speakers to figure out which
kind of topic this is?
(5) Naadya ßeef-a Kariim mbeeri Lebanese Arabic
Nadia saw.3SG.M-her Karim yesterday
‘Nadia, Karim saw her yesterday.’ (from Aoun and Benmamoun 1998)
Discussion points 187
6. We discussed the difference between Raising and ECM verbs. The
verbs in (6) are known as control verbs because their comple-
ments can have empty subjects controlled by the higher subject.
(6) try, like, start, want, and expect.
Provide some sentences that show this control. How would you analyze tend,
appear, and manage?
7. We have discussed that while can introduce a peripheral or central
adverbial. Use the COCA (http://corpus.byu.edu/coca/) to look at
twenty instances (e.g. the first twenty) of while to see which kind is
more frequent. You may want to play around with the part-of-
speech feature of the interface. For instance, if I just wanted com-
plementizer that, I’d use (7).
(7) that.[cs*]
S U G G E S T I O N S F O R F U R T H E R RE A D I N G
Bybee (1985) on mood, Zanuttini & Portner (2000) on clause types, and Enç
(1987) on the anchoring of the tense.
Van der Wurff (2007) adds more to the theoretical background regarding
imperatives; Isac (2012) suggests a finer-grained division of the imper-
ative cross-linguistically.
Read Cinque (1990) on various islands and Gallego (2010) on the that-trace
effect.
Biskup (2011) and Shu (2011) are insightful on CP adverbials and
Frascarelli (2007) on how topics license pro-drop.
Earlier ideas on topics can be found in Prince (1981), Givón (1983), and
Abraham & de Meij (1986).
188 T H E C P-L A Y E R
6 Connecting the layers
The three layers form neat independent chunks in the sentence, with
the vP-Layer being the most similar cross-linguistically. These three
layers, however, also “communicate” with each other, and that’s how
the CP-TP-VP order arises. We’ll now look at the ordering of the three
layers and the links between them.
As for mood, we have seen mood in the CP in the form of indicative
or subjunctive or imperative and in the TP in the form of evaluative/
epistemic mood. An indicative mood is not compatible with an epis-
temic modal, but a subjunctive mood is. There are thus links between
the various moods in the three layers, as well as between the mood in
the C and the tense in the T, in that only an indicative mood is
compatible with past or present tense. As for aspect, there is a high
aspect (grammatical aspect in the TP-layer) and low aspect (lexical
aspect in the VP-Layer), and they communicate as well, in that states
do not typically occur as progressives. Focus involves the vP/VP and CP,
and negation may involve all layers, and some languages have high
negation and others relatively low negation.
In Section 6.1, we’ll look at how the ordering of the three layers
comes about. In Section 6.2, we discuss the link between the tense and
mood in the CP and TP- and vP-Layers. In Section 6.3, we discuss the
links between aspect and the verb, and Section 6.4 examines negation.
Section 6.5 shows how topic and focus are distributed throughout the
clause, and Section 6.6 is a conclusion.
6 . 1 KE E P ING T H E C P , T P , A N D V P T O G ET H E R
In top-to-bottom derivations, a C selects a TP and a T selects the VP; in
bottom-to-top derivations, the C and T probes look for goals by way of
their features, so these are very similar processes. I’ll briefly review
some of the changes in how we’ve connected the layers in Generative
Grammar.
189
Using phrase structure rules, as in Chomsky (1965, but even up to
1981), the CP selects the T and the VP, as we have seen in earlier
chapters. An early 1980s-style rule would be the one in (1).
(1) CP → NP T VP
After extending X’-structure to all categories, which happens around
1986, the tree is as in (2) – by now very familiar.
(2) CP
C TP
NP T’
T VP
In this model, the C selects a TP and so on. As the tree gets more
complicated in the late 1980s and 1990s, the selection becomes more
specific. Cartographic structures, such as the ones we’ve seen in
Chapters 4 and 5, make the selection even more complex.
Bare phrase structure derivations, i.e. those going from bottom-to-
top, go as follows. The selection from the lexicon for an English finite
clause includes a C to mark mood, a T for tense, a v/V, and some DP
arguments. As I have quoted above, Chomsky (2001: 12) says “[a]ssume
that substantive categories are selected by functional categories. V by
a light verb, T by C.” The verb would first merge with its arguments,
possibly because of uninterpretable features, as suggested in the con-
clusion to Chapter 3. The VP would then merge with T and C because
of the uninterpretable features of C and T, namely the [u-T] of the CP-
Layer and the inherited [u-phi] of the TP-Layer. If these features didn’t
get valued, the clause would not be interpretable at the C-I level.
Having briefly sketched that the selection of the VP and TP by T and
C, respectively, is not automatic but needs to be negotiated through
features, I now turn to the connection between C and T and V where
mood is concerned.
6 . 2 M O O D T H R O U G H O U T T H E C L A US E
Different mood domains have been recognized in the literature,
namely speech act, propositional, and event-modality. These
190 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
correspond to the three layers discussed in this book. The first
domain concerns what we have put in the ForceP, for instance, imper-
ative and interrogative mood; the second has to do with the speaker’s
attitude towards the proposition and has been put in the TP; and the
third has to do with conditions imposed on the Agent of the main
event and belongs to the VP. The three mood domains appear in work
by Bybee and Fleischman (1995), Palmer (2001), and many others. We
have also seen it in Chapters 4 and 5. Thus, mood is present in all
layers, although more of it is centered in the CP and higher TP. In this
section, we will first briefly discuss the connection between the mood
in the CP and TP and then the relation between mood in the VP and TP
by looking at the well-known distinction between deontic and epis-
temic modals.
Typologically, there is a connection between realis mood and
(present and past) tense on the one hand and irrealis and
negative, future, interrogative on the other. I have represented this
by having a C with interpretable mood but uninterpretable tense
features that need valuation by features from T or M. The link is
obvious from the complementizers that and for in English, the one
reserved for indicative-tensed CP and the other for irrealis non-tensed
ones.
Chomsky argues for a C-T link for tense inheritance (as we’ve seen
in Chapter 5, Section 5.2.3) but, since he only talks about
declarative clauses, we’d have to add mood-inheritance for clauses
with a modal. Some proposals do not consider C and T as separate
but as one phase head. Combining the C and T was especially popular
in the literature on Germanic in the 1980s (e.g. Platzack 1983),
although this was done more because there was little evidence for
an actual T position.
Turning to the VP and TP connection, English has a set of modals
that is homophonous between deontic and epistemic uses, as we’ve
seen in Chapter 4, with the deontic use more V-like and the
epistemic more T-like. For instance, may, must, and can can be used
with a root or deontic meaning, as in (3), as well as with an epistemic
meaning, as in (4).
(3) You may/must/can/ go. = deontic
(4) It may/must/can/ be raining there now. = epistemic
Because the deontic meaning is more verbal, it is often called situa-
tional. Van der Auwera and Plungian (1998) suggest a four-way dis-
tinction which I have simplified as Table 6.1.
Mood throughout the clause 191
Not all languages display the same homophony as English. There
may be homophony across horizontal lines instead, and some lan-
guages use different forms for all four.
The question that is relevant to this section is how the various
modals “communicate” with each other. The epistemic ones are
higher, connected to the TP-Layer, whereas the situational ones are
lower, connected to the VP-Layer. In Modern (standard) English, how-
ever, we cannot have both, as (5) shows, although this is possible in
varieties of English and earlier stages, as (6) shows.
(5) *He must can do it
(6) ye schall can lyve lyke a jentylman
you shall can live like a gentleman
‘You’ll be able to live like a gentleman.’ (1475 Paston Letters, #292)
If both are not possible, the reason may be that the deontic modal has
to move to a higher position. So although the deontic is verbal, it also
bears irrealis mood.
(7) CP
C TP
DP T’
They
T MP
can
can
can
M’
M vP
v’
v VP
swim five miles
Table 6.1 Types of modals
possibility necessity
epistemic can, may must
situational can, may must
192 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
To be honest, I am not sure that (7) is the best solution. We’d have to
look at languages with double modals and inflected modals to think
about the incompatibility of Modern (standard) English more. I leave
that for future research.
Tense and mood are mainly represented in the higher regions of the
clause. If we think of deontic verbs as marking mood in a lexical way,
it is also present in the VP. We’ll now turn to aspect, which is located
in the lower part of the TP and in the VP.
6 . 3 AS P , v , A N D V
Aspect is marked in the lower layers of the clause. In the TP, auxiliaries
(have and be) and adverbs (often, again, etc.) are used; in the VP-shell,
adverbials (mostly PPs) are, and semi-lexical verbs (start, begin, and
finish). In Chapter 4, the Functional Hierarchy of (16) puts habitual,
repetitive, frequentative, celerative, terminative, continuative, per-
fect, retrospective, proximative, and durative aspect in the TP,
whereas it puts generic, prospective, completive, celerative, repeti-
tive, frequentative, and completive in the VP-Layer. Some of the TP
aspect markers (e.g. frequentative and celerative) are repeated in the
VP-Layer.
All of these auxiliaries and adverbs constitute outer aspect or exter-
nal aspect or grammatical aspect. Cinque doesn’t connect the vari-
ous aspects. I have suggested that there are layers of aspect, as in (8),
repeated from (23) in Chapter 4.
(8) ASP-Layer of time = TP-Layer
usually ASP-Layer of manner = VP-Layer
completely VP
Some of the adverbs and auxiliaries can occur together, as we’ve seen
in Chapter 4. The connection between time aspect and manner aspect
is relatively free.
There is a clear connection between the external or grammatical
aspect and the internal aspect or Aktionsart of the verb and the event
structure in the vP-Layer. In Chapter 3, we discussed Vendler and
Verkuyl in this connection, and I will just review that discussion
ASP, v, and V 193
briefly. If we think of the Aktionsart features of the verb as +/– durative
and +/– telic, this will have an impact on the compatibility with the
higher layers. Thus, if a verb is non-durative, it will not be compatible
with a progressive, i.e. durative, external aspect, and if it is atelic, it
can’t combine with an in an hour adverbial. In Chapter 3, I represented
this connection as in (9).
(9)
ASPP
ASP vP
be
[u-dur]... ASP
ASP VP
-ing V
[i-dur] read
[durative]
Linguistic aspect marks “different ways of viewing the internal tem-
poral consistency of a situation” (Comrie 1976: 3), and we therefore
expect it to be marked in and around the verbal area. This is in fact
what we see reflected in the hierarchies of Chapter 4, represented also
in (10) in a simplistic manner.
(10)
CP
C TP
T ASPP
external/ ASP VP
grammatical aspect
internal aspect/ V ...
Aktionsart
We’ll now turn to negation.
194 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
6 . 4 NE G A T I O N
In English, negation is represented throughout the clause. We’ll first
look at the distribution of English negatives and then at a structure for
negatives using a NegP.
Negation may involve all the three layers. In English, it can be in the
CP, in the TP, and in the VP. These possibilities are shown in (11) to
(13), with a tree in (14) showing the various positions, although these
do not all occur in the same sentence, which makes it obvious that the
various negatives communicate with each other across the layers.
(11) Never had he seen such amazing ruins.
(12) I didn’t see any ruins.
(13) I saw nobody.
(14)
CP ( = FocusP)
Never C’
C NegP
Neg’
Neg VP
-n’t
V’
V nobody
In (11), never is in the specifier of the Focus Phrase, as we’ve seen in the
previous chapter; in (12), we’ll see that the negative -n’t is in the head
of a NegP, situated somewhere in the TP; and in (13), nobody is a lexical
item. Of these, only the negation using NegP is considered grammat-
ical, whereas never in (11) is an adverb that’s been preposed and nobody
is a negative quantifier. So, one question to answer for each language
is (a) which layer is sentential negation represented in and is it
Negation 195
grammatical or lexical? Three other questions are (b) is the negative a
head or a phrase, (c) what features are checked, and (d) how do the
layers communicate?
As to (a), the negative force is arguably only present in the VP in (13).
As is well known, NPIs (e.g. ever, any, anybody, anything) need to be
c-commanded by a negative or question word. The reason that there
is no NegP in (13) is that objects, such as nobody in (15), don’t license
NPIs (ever in (15)). I therefore assume there is no higher NegP present in
(13) or (15) to which the quantifier could move and license ever.
(15) *I ever saw nobody.
In (12), any ruins is c-commanded by -n’t but in (15) ever is not
c-commanded by nobody and obviously not by anything in a NegP.
Negation can also be present in the TP area, and then we assume
there is a NegP. The latter varies in position, as Ouhalla (1990) argues.
Zanuttini (1997) claims that varieties of Italian have more than one
structural NegP. If the negation appears in NegP, we consider it gram-
matical; if elsewhere, it is lexical.
As to question (b), since Pollock (1989) and Ouhalla (1990) most
people have assumed that English -n’t/not is an independent head
that needs a lower head to move to it on its way to T. That means -n’t
is a clitic, as in (16) (although Zwicky and Pullum (1983) argue that
the -n’t is not a clitic but an inflectional affix).
(16)
TP
Su T’
T NegP
Neg’
Neg MP
n’t
M’
M vP
would ...
196 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
If the negative were in the specifier position, the auxiliary would be
able to move across it, as heeft ‘has’ does in Dutch (17).
(17) Heeft hij dat niet gedaan? Dutch
Has he that not done
‘Hasn’t he done that?’
Haegeman (1995) therefore assumes niet in (17) is a specifier of the
NegP.
This structure with a NegP works particularly well for languages
with a two-part negation, such as standard French, where ne/n’ are in
the head and pas in the specifier of the NegP, as in (18), for standard
French (19). In this tree, the verb attaches to the negative head, and
then the two move to T.
(18) TP
je T’
T NegP
-ais
pas Neg’
Neg VP
n arriv-
arrive
V
(19) Je n’-arriv-ais pas. Standard formal French
1S NEG-arrive-1S.PST NEG
‘I didn’t arrive.’
The position of the NegP in French is relatively low, as (20) shows for
(21), although if the main verb has to right-adjoin to Neg in (18),
perhaps the auxiliary could do so as well, and then the NegP could
be higher.
Negation 197
(20)
TP
T'
T ASPP
i
ASP'
ASP NegP
a
pas Neg'
Neg VP
n vu ça
(21) Je n’ai pas vu ça Standard French
I NEG-have NEG seen that
‘I haven’t seen that.’
If negation is represented by a NegP, it can be in the specifier or the
head, as French shows. How do the various negatives “communi-
cate” with each other? This leads us to an answer to questions (c)
and (d). In Standard English, a sentence with a quantifier and a
negative result in double negation, i.e. the one negative cancels
out the other negative, as in (22). In languages with negative con-
cord, as in Non-standard English (23), the negative quantifier has a
feature that is checked with a [u-Neg] in Neg. These are represented
as (24a–b) respectively.
(22) I didn’t see nobody! Standard English
‘I saw someone.’
(23) I didn’t see nobody! Non-standard English
‘I didn’t see anyone.’
198 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
(24)
a. NegP b. NegP
Neg’ Neg’
Neg VP Neg VP
[i-neg] [u-neg] ...
V DP DP
see nobody [i-neg]
[i-neg]
In (22), there are two real negatives, and they do cancel each other out.
In (23), the negative quantifier’s [i-Neg] features value the [u-Neg] of
the head. Modern Standard English is a very artificial language in this
respect (normative pressure keeping it from adopting (24b)) and has a
(prescriptive) ban on having a Neg with [u-Neg].
In Section 6.4, I have shown that negatives can appear in all layers,
but that they communicate through the NegP, as, for instance, in (24).
It is the features of the NegP and the quantifier that are interpreted
at C-I.
6 . 5 T O P I C A N D F O C U S
In this section, we look at the representation of Topic and Focus
throughout the clause.
We have seen that in Italian there can be many topics but that they
tend to be in the left-periphery. Topical material in the form of pro-
nouns or definite nouns is often shifted to the left in e.g. Germanic
(25), but dat boek ‘that book’ presumably stays in the TP.
(25) dat hij dat boek/*een boek gisteren weer een keer las Dutch
that he that book/a book yesterday again one time read
‘that he read that book/a book again yesterday.’
Even though the CP looks like the prime area for topic positions, there
are factors in the sentence that push certain arguments into topics. De
Cat (2007: 64ff.) provides some evidence that Individual Level predi-
cates force the “subject” into a topic position and “cause” clitic dou-
bling, as in (26a), while Stage Level predicates do not, as in (26b).
Topic and Focus 199
(26) a. Le malais c’est difficile French
DEF Malay it-is difficult
‘Malay is difficult.’ (De Cat 2007: 77)
b. Le directeur est là French
‘The director is there.’ (De Cat 2007: 77)
Thus, there is a link between the verb type in the VP and possibly
whether an ASPP is present and the extension to a topic.
Turning to focus, as we’ve seen, focus can be in the CP when it is
contrastive or above the vP when it is informational (see Belletti 2001;
2004). There is a restriction of one focus per clause. I haven’t said
much about the low focus, but Belletti uses the low focus position to
explain postverbal subjects, so prevalent in Romance pro-drop lan-
guages. Sentences with a postverbal subject, such as (27), receive an
analysis as in (28), where the subject is in a low Focus position.
(27) ha parlato Gianni Italian
has spoken Gianni
‘Gianni spoke.’
(28) [CP.. [TP. . . ha. . . parlato [TopP [FocP Gianni [TopP [vP. . .]]]]]]
(adapted from Belletti 2008: 245)
This is only possible in languages without the EPP. English and French
have other strategies for informational focus. French uses a cleft, and
the structure Belletti proposes for French (29) is given in (30).
(29) Q Qui a parlé? French ((reduced) Cleft)
who has spoken
‘Who spoke ?’
A C’est Jean (qui a parlé)
It-is John who has spoken
‘John spoke.’
(30) [TP Ce. . . [TopP [FocP[TopP[vP être [sc Jean
~
j
j
[CP qui a parlé]]]]]]
(Belletti 2008: 245)
The English focus strategy, according to Belletti, is given in (31). This
focus comes about through the “activation of a DP internal (new
information) focus position” (Belletti 2008: 247).
(31) Q Who spoke? English (SV/(in situ focalization))
A JOHN came/spoke
or: JOHN did (Belletti 2008: 242)
A problem with this account is that too much is possible. Both French
and English speakers allow the cleft and the in situ focus as alterna-
tives. Belletti (2008: 247) says, “in English-type languages as well the
200 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
cleft French-type strategy can be resorted to in some cases, thus
indicating that access to the low vP peripheral focus position is gen-
erally available across languages.” Thus, (32) is possible in English,
with a low focus.
(32) Q Who is it at the door?
A It’s John (at the door).
Lambrecht (2010: 78–79), not working in a Cartographic approach,
examines the Focus strategies of English and French. English strongly
favors subjects that are pronouns, i.e. topics: it can put an accent on
the subject in situ, as in (33). The answer in French is different, as also
shown.
(33) Q You look upset. What happened?
A My CAR broke down.
J’ai ma VOITURE qui est en panne French
1S.have my car which is broken
‘It is my car that broke down.’ (Lambrecht 2010: 79)
The above focus constructions have involved subject focus. What
happens if the object is new information? Here, English, French,
and Italian do not show a difference; the objects are all as in
English (34).
(34) Q What have you bought?
A I’ve bought a book.
This uniformity is predicted if the objects move to the low focus
position (and all verbs move across that!). Object clefts have a
different function and position. They are more contrastive and
occupy the focus position in the copula’s CP complement, according
to Belletti (2008). The cleft in Italian is always used for contrastive
focus, but in French and English it can also be used for information
focus.
6 . 6 CO N C L U S I O N
In this book, we have introduced features on C and T to indicate mood
and tense. In this chapter, we saw how some of these layers commu-
nicate through feature checking. The C and T transmit mood and
tense, the ASP and v/V aspect, negative features appear in a NegP
which interacts with material in the VP, and Topic and Focus are
also found throughout the clause.
Conclusion 201
Keywords
external mood, internal mood, external aspect, internal aspect/
Aktionsart, tense, negation, TP focus
D I S C U S S I O N P O I N T S
1. Which data, in addition to (1), would you like from a native
speaker of Sami to decide how to represent negation in Sami?
Note that the related Finnish is (2).
(1) Idtjim daejrieh Southern Sami
NEG.PST.1S know
‘I didn’t know.’ (from Bergsland 1994: 44)
(2) Liisa ei osta-nut kirjaa Finnish
Liisa NEG.3S buy-PST book
‘Liisa did not buy a/the book.’
2. In Basque, we have a ba morpheme in (3). How would you analyze
this?
(3) Irune ba -da etorri Basque
Irune so-has arrived
‘Irune has arrived.’ (Laka 1994: 77)
S U G G E S T I O N S F O R F U R T H E R RE A D I N G
Palmer (2001) and Nordström (2010) provide good information on modal-
ity in general, and Van der Auwera and Plungian (1998) on cross-
linguistic modality.
Pesetsky and Torrego (2004; 2007) are crucial reading on the connection
between C and T.
Ouhalla (1990) is a classic where the NegP is concerned.
Jayaseelan (2001) discusses low focus and topic, and Lambrecht (2010)
provides additional information on the cross-linguistic differences
regarding topic and focus.
202 CONNECTING T HE LA YERS
7 Conclusion: description, explanation,
and “beyond”
This book provides a Minimalist description of the clause. It uses three
clausal domains that are quite distinct in their characteristics. One
way of characterizing each layer is by using the term pragmatic for the
CP, grammatical for the TP, and semantic for the VP, but that is of
course an overgeneralization. Each of these three layers has been
examined in detail, and a Cartography has emerged. What I have
tried to emphasize, however, is that this Cartography is descriptive,
i.e. it is descriptively adequate and is not an explanation for why the
order of phrases is the way it is and how it came to be this way, i.e. how
it is explanatorily adequate and “beyond” explanatorily adequate.
Cartography and Minimalism are different ways of approaching the
problem: the one is descriptive, the other explanatory.
I have therefore also suggested ways to envisage an explanation in
terms of third factors, as is now common in Minimalism. Here, I have
been much vaguer, and that’s why Minimalism is programmatic at
this point. A complete account is not yet feasible. In addition to third
factor effects, however, I have suggested a bigger role for Universal
Grammar than is currently the case. Innate semantic concepts and
features guide the child in its extraordinary acquisition of lexical
items.
In this conclusion, I will point out the major functions of each of the
three layers, the challenging issues in each layer, and a few areas that
may in fact have the beginnings of a third factor explanation.
7 . 1 F U N C T I O N S O F T H E L A Y E R S
In this section, I summarize a few of the functions that phrases and
heads in each of the layers play.
First of all, the DPs can be marked for semantic role (Agent, Theme,
etc.), grammatical function (Subject, Object, etc.), and pragmatic role
203
(Topic and Focus). Structure (1) shows the three layers, where this
marking on the DPs is shown by arrows.
(1)
CP
who C’
C TP
Focus T’
Subject
who
who
T VP
will
V’
Agent
V AP
leave early
Secondly, we can represent tense in the CP and TP, and mood and
negation in all three layers, although negation is grammaticalized in
the TP-Layer, and aspect in the low TP and VP. This is shown in (2).
(2) CP
C’
mood C TP
tense
T’
negation
aspect T VP
V
204 CONC LUSI ON : DE S CR IPT I ON , E X P L A N AT I ON, A N D “B EY O N D ”
7 . 2 M A J O R I S S U E S I N E A C H L A Y ER
In this section, I will give a brief overview of the most important issues
in each layer.
The VP-Layer centers around the verb in the projectionist, lexi-
calist approach, but around the light verbs in the constructionist
approach. The major question is how the derivation “knows” which
heads and phrases to merge first. In Chapter 3, we have examined a
few mechanisms. In the projectionist approach, the Thematic
Hierarchy and the UTAH are responsible for interpreting the DPs
as Agents or Themes or as other semantic roles. If the derivation
first merges the Agent, as in (3), it will incorrectly be interpreted as a
Theme at the C-I Interface.
(3) VP
V DP
see Jane
The Interface will also have to pay attention to the verb, however, to
see that it has a Theme and Agent to assign, and not just a Theme. In
the constructionist approach, the different functional categories
will have to be ordered as well, and it is not immediately clear to
me how.
The major issue in the TP-Layer is again the order of phrases, but
also the number and type of features needed. As to the order, in
Chapter 4 I cited a few attempts to derive the order from third factor
principles such as scope. As to the features, I mentioned in Chapter 1
that children develop/refine cognitive concepts such as cause, time,
and place, and that these will be abstracted as grammatical features.
Universal Grammar will have to provide some input other than Merge,
since these features are linguistic, but again this is an area in need of
more work.
The major issue in the CP-Layer is how the derivation “knows” when
to move topic and focus elements to that layer. Frascarelli (2007) and
Sigurðsson (2011) argue for a third factor Edge-Principle, which can be
phrased in such a way that each DP needs to be connected to a role in
the CP-Layer. There are still a number of problems with this approach.
Do all DPs need to be linked; can they be linked without movement to
the CP-Layer?
Major issues in each layer 205
7 . 3 T H I R D F A C T O R E F F E C T S A N D U N I V E R S A L
G R A M M A R
As mentioned, in the last ten years or so the focus of Generative
Grammar has not only been on descriptive and explanatory adequacy
(what is language and how is it acquired), but also beyond explanatory
adequacy (why is it the way it is). Such an approach attempts to use
insights from the physical structure of the brain and evolution.
Language is a relatively new phenomenon in our species, and a com-
plex Universal Grammar is unexpected, since it hasn’t had time to
evolve. The emphasis has therefore shifted to third factors, although I
have suggested, e.g. in Chapter 1, that semantic features may exist in
proto-language and could therefore be innate.
The Thematic Hierarchy, the UTAH, and Reinhart’s theta-roles are
great candidates for being due to a third factor. As briefly mentioned
above and in Chapter 3, Baker sees the UTAH as an interface principle.
If we consider how it may have arisen, the animacy built into it is
striking, and it could therefore be a syntactic way of expressing ani-
macy restrictions, something not restricted to language but to cogni-
tion in general.
7 . 4 C O N C L U S I O N
This book has described the basic backbone of the clause. This can be
done in a constructionist, Cartographic approach or in a projectionist,
derivational one. Each has its challenges, in particular in predicting
the selection and order or elements. The ultimate question is how did
language get to be the way it is!
Keywords
descriptive and explanatory adequacy, beyond explanatory, third fac-
tor, evolution
206 CONC LUSI ON : DE S CR IPT I ON , E X P L A N AT I ON, A N D “B EY O N D ”
Glossary
accusative typically the marking on the
grammatical object.
active voice a construction where all the
arguments that a verb typically
has are present, e.g. read will
have its Agent and Theme
expressed.
actor see Agent
adjunct alternative for adverbial.
adverbial a phrase that is optional, often
used to give additional
information on the manner, time,
or place when an event takes place.
Agent the semantic or thematic role of a
mentally present Causer of an
action.
AGREE the operation where a probe with
uninterpretable features searches
for a Goal with interpretable
features.
Aktionsart the internal temporal structure of
a verb, also known as internal or
lexical aspect.
analytic a language with little morphology,
e.g. Chinese.
anti-causative see unaccusative
argument a phrase that is obligatorily
present with a particular verb; for
instance, they always loved him, they
and him are arguments because
they cannot be left out, but always
is not.
207
aspect considering the internal temporal
organization of an event or
situation, e.g. if the event is telic or
durative.
assertive verb a verb whose complement is an
assertion.
auxiliary a verb that needs another verb and
that expresses the mood or aspect
of a sentence.
binary branching when each node in a tree has two
branches.
bind/bound an antecedent, such as they, binds
an anaphor, such as themselves, in
They saw themselves.
boundary an imprecise way of saying that the
VP, TP, and CP have edges that may
stop movement etc.
case morphologically, the difference
between nominative she and
accusative or dative her;
syntactically, the licensing of
arguments through
uninterpretable features on a T or v
probe.
causative verb verb with a Causer theta-role.
causer the semantic or thematic role of
the causer of an action.
c-command a way to define the relation of
sisterhood in a tree.
circumstantial adverb an adverb of manner, time, or
space, usually expressed as PP.
clause contains at least a lexical verb.
cleft a construction in which one
element is focused, e.g. it was john
who left.
clitic a (phonologically reduced) word
that needs another word to
support it, e.g. ’im in I see ’im.
complement sister to X in X-bar theory;
alternative for argument.
208 Glossary
complementizer introduces a clause, e.g. a
subordinate one such as because,
or a main clause by means of
features on C.
complex sentence a sentence with more than one
lexical verb.
conjunction a word that connects two clauses.
control verb a verb with a clausal complement
that has an unspecified subject
that is identical to its own subject
and is expressed as PRO, e.g. I tried
PRO to leave.
coordination a word that connects two
independent clauses where neither
fulfills a function in the other.
copula a linking verb that combines a
subject and an adjective or noun.
copy when a word or phrase moves, or
remerges, a copy is left behind,
indicated by means of cross-
through.
dative the case that goes with a Goal in
many languages.
declarative see indicative.
default the unmarked case, in English
accusative.
defective used for clauses when they do not
have a C.
Definiteness Effect the requirement that the
postverbal argument in existential
constructions be indefinite.
deontic used for verbs as well as for modal
auxiliaries when they express
volition, ability, permission, and
necessity.
dependent marking a language which marks
grammatical relations such as
subject and object on the
arguments, not on the verb.
derivation syntactic operations that result in a
sentence.
Glossary 209
direct object if a verb only has one object, it is
the direct object.
durativity a continued or unbroken action.
echo question questions something just said by
leaving the wh-word in place.
ECM clauses in which the subject gets
case from the outside, e.g. him in I
believe him to be nice.
edge used in connection with phases,
the edge is the accessible part of a
phase.
epistemic used for verbs as well as for modal
auxiliaries when they express the
possibility, likelihood, or degree of
certainty of the sentence being
true.
EPP the requirement that a clause has a
specific structural position for
grammatical subjects.
exclamative mood that signals that the speaker
is surprised or excited.
existential a construction with there, as in
There were five unicorns.
expletive subject a subject that has a grammatical
function but no thematic role.
External Argument the argument that is the highest in
the Hierarchy and is used as
grammatical subject (in English).
extraction taking a phrase out of another
phrase.
factive a verb with a clausal complement
whose truth is presupposed by the
speaker.
feature a grammatical/morphological
property, such as person, number,
tense, and case.
finite a very language-specific term. In
English, a verb or clause with
marking for agreement with the
subject and tense.
FinP Finite Phrase.
210 Glossary
first Merge Merge is when a head and a phrase
are combined; first Merge is when
the heads and phrases haven’t
merged before.
floating quantifier all and both can float in English, i.e.
do not need to stay together with
the element they modify, as in They
may have all been happy.
focus can be a position to which a phrase
moves that is new information.
force a CP indicates the mood of a
sentence, and this is often referred
to as the force.
fragment not a complete sentence, e.g.
lacking a finite verb or a subject.
free word order the phenomenon where languages
seem not to have a preferred word
order.
fronting moving a phrase to an initial
position.
function usually grammatical function.
fut future features.
Goal theta-role; to check features with.
Government and Binding a stage in Generative Grammar
represented by Chomsky (1981)
with an emphasis on case and
agreement that leads into
Minimalism.
head the head of the verb phrase is the
verb, and the head of the noun
phrase is the noun, etc.
head marking a language which marks
grammatical relations such as
subject and object on the verb, not
on the arguments.
headedness every phrase must have a head, and
that’s a principle; for a long time it
was argued that headedness was a
parameter that could be set as
head-first or head-last.
Glossary 211
I(NFL) the name of a position dedicated to
inflectional elements.
identificational Focus contrastive Focus; making a
selection from a limited set of
answers.
imperative the mood related to an order or
command.
inchoative used as unaccusative in the
causative/unaccusative
alternation; also refers to the
beginning of an action.
Inclusiveness Condition a principle that restricts new
elements from being introduced
into the derivation.
in situ a word or phrase that stays in its
first-merged position, e.g. I saw
who?
interface the grammar needs to connect
with the sensorimotor and
conceptual systems, and these
connections are called interfaces.
interpretable a feature that is relevant at the C-I
interface.
interrogative a mood expressing a question.
intransitive a verb with one argument, e.g.
swim.
irrealis the opposite of real, hence moods
that express uncertainty.
island a constituent from which
extraction is not possible.
labile verb the same verb form is used for
causative and unaccusative
meanings, e.g. boil and grow.
left periphery the highest area of the clause
where pragmatic information is
provided.
light verb the higher verb in the vP-shell; a
verb like make.
Linear Correspondence Axiom a translation between hierarchy in
the tree and linear spell-out.
212 Glossary
locality the idea that syntactic operations
cannot occur between positions
too far apart, as in extractions from
islands.
main clause a clause that has a finite verb and a
subject, at least in English.
Merge combining a head and a phrase.
Minimalism a form of Generative Grammar
prevalent since the early 1990s.
modal an auxiliary that expresses
possibility, necessity, etc.
modifier an alternative term for
adverbial, or for a non-essential
element in the DP, usually
an adjective phrase or relative
clause.
mood the mood of a clause can be
indicative, interrogative,
imperative, or exclamative.
move selecting a word or phrase
already merged in the
derivation and merging it in
another position.
multiple wh-question having more than one wh-element
in a clause.
negative concord when two negatives result in an
interpretation of one negative.
Negative Polarity Item a word or phrase that needs to be in
a certain environment, e.g. a
negative one.
Negative Raising a phenomenon where a negative
can either modify the subordinate
verb or the matrix verb.
nominative the case used for the subject, e.g.
s/he in English.
null subject a subject that bears a theta-role but
is not pronounced, represented as
pro or PRO.
object a grammatical role that is marked
accusative in many languages.
Glossary 213
object shift used in the literature on
Scandinavian languages for the
movement of the definite object
to the left.
parameter ways in which languages differ
from each other, e.g. in being head-
initial or head-final.
passive voice the result of the movement of a
non-Agent or non-Causer to subject
position.
Patient see Theme
performance reflective of what we hear and see
of language; performance errors
are often characterized as slips of
the tongue.
phi-features person and number and gender
features.
phrasal verb a combination of a verb and an
adverb that usually has an
unpredictable meaning.
pres present features
Principle a universal property of language.
Principles and Parameters a stage in Generative
Grammar represented by
Chomsky (1973) where cross-
linguistic variation comes to be
important.
pro the empty subject argument of a
finite verb.
PRO the empty subject argument of a
non-finite verb.
probe a head with uninterpretable
features that searches for a Goal to
value its features.
probe-goal checking the valuation of the probe’s
uninterpretable features with the
probe’s interpretable ones.
pro-drop a term used for null-subjects,
especially for languages such as
Italian and Spanish.
214 Glossary
Projection Principle the requirement that the
properties of a verb’s argument
structure must be preserved in a
derivation.
quantifier words like some, all, every, and any
that describe a quantity.
quantifier float certain quantifiers can appear
away from the noun they modify;
this was initially seen as a
“floating” to the right but is
currently seen as a stranding; see
Chapter 1.
raising verb a verb with one clausal argument,
e.g. seem.
realis mood indicating that something is
actually the case.
rheme that which comments on the topic
or theme of a sentence.
role usually a semantic or thematic role
scope certain words can have scope over
other words in their
c-commanding domain.
scrambling when, for pragmatic reasons,
subjects and objects are moved to
grammatically unexpected
positions; not relevant in a strict
word order language such as
English.
serial verb construction a combination of two lexical verbs
where neither is subordinate to the
other.
specifier/spec phrase that is contained in another
phrase but not the complement;
see Chapter 1.
spell-out when the derivation is
pronounced.
Subjacency a principle that restricts
movement across two boundaries,
e.g. DP and CP.
subject grammatical role that is marked
nominative in many languages.
Glossary 215
superiority the principle that, for instance,
selects the wh-element closest to
the CP for movement to that CP.
T tense head of the TP.
telicity having a goal or end-point.
tense relation between the event or
action and the time of speech, e.g.
present and past tense.
that-trace effect the restriction (in some languages)
that a complementizer cannot be
followed by an empty subject
position.
Theme name of a theta-role; see Chapter 3.
theta-role semantic role such as Agent or
Theme.
Top the head of a Topic phrase; see
Chapter 5, Section 5.3.
Top(ic) a DP that expresses old or given
information.
transitive a set of verbs that have two
arguments, e.g. hit.
unaccusative a set of intransitive verbs with just
a Theme argument, e.g. arrive.
unergative a set of intransitive verbs with just
an Agent argument, e.g. swim.
valency the number of arguments
connected to a verb.
value used as a verb, it means to check
the uninterpretable features.
variable an empty position that is bound by
a particular element to its left, e.g.
a wh-element.
voice passive and active voice
manipulate the expression of
arguments in certain positions; e.g.
a passive allows the Theme to
function as grammatical subject.
VPISH originally, it stated that subjects
start out in the VP; but it is now
taken to mean that all arguments
originate there.
216 Glossary
weak crossover constructions such as Who did his
mother see, with who and his
coreferential, i.e. referring to the
same person.
wh-movement movement of a wh-element,
usually to the specifier of the CP.
wh-question a question whose answer is not just
yes or no but informational.
X-bar theory the generalization of the phrase
structure rules so that each phrase
looks similar, with a head, a
specifier, and a complement.
yes/no question a question whose answer is yes
or no.
Glossary 217
References
Abels, K. 2003. Successive Cyclicity, Anti-Locality, and Adposition
Stranding. Doctoral dissertation, University of Connecticut.
Abney, S. 1987. The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect.
Dissertation, MIT.
Abraham, W. 1995. Structural Properties of Information Packaging in
German and in Universal Grammar. In E. Hajičová, M. Červenka,
O. Leška and P. Sgall (eds.), Prague Linguistic Circle Papers, vol. I, 125–
156. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
1997a. Kausativierung und Dekausativierung: Zu Fragen der verbpara-
digmatischen Markierung in der Germania. In T. Birkmann and
O. Werner (eds.), Vergleichende germanische Philologie und Skandinavistik:
Festschrift für Otmar Werner, 13–28. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
1997b. The Interdependence of Case, Aspect, and Referentiality in the
History of German: The Case of the Genitive. In A. van Kemenade and
N. Vincent (eds.), Parameters of morphosyntactic change, 29–61.
Cambridge University Press.
Abraham W. and S. de Meij. 1986. Topic, Focus, and Configurationality.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Adger, D. 2007. Core Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Adger, D. & G. Ramchand. 2001. Phases and Interpretability. In
K. Megerdoomian and L. A. Bar-el (eds.), WCCFL 20 Proceedings, 101–
104. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Akmajian, A., S. Steele, and T. Wasow. 1979. The Category AUX in
Universal Grammar. Linguistic Inquiry 10: 1–64.
Aoun, J. & E. Benmamoun. 1998. Minimality, Reconstruction and PF-
Movement. Linguistic Inquiry 29.4: 569–597.
Aoun, J. & A. Li. 1989. Scope and Constituency. Linguistic Inquiry 20: 141–172.
Authier, M. 1992. Iterated CPs and Embedded Topicalization. Linguistic
Inquiry 23.2: 329–336.
Auwera, J. van der & V. Plungian. 1998. Modality’s Semantic Map. Linguistic
Typology 2: 79–124.
Babyonyshev, M., J. Ganger, D. Pesetsky, and K. Wexler. 2001. The
Maturation of Grammatical Principles: Evidence from Russian
Unaccusatives. Linguistic Inquiry 32.1: 1–44.
218
Badan, L. & F. del Gobbo. 2011. On the Syntax of Topic and Focus in
Chinese. In P. Benincà and N. Munaro (eds.), Mapping the Left
Periphery, 63–90. Oxford University Press.
Baker, Mark. 1988. Incorporation. Chicago University Press.
1997. Thematic Roles and Syntactic Structure. In L. Haegeman (ed.),
Elements of Grammar, 73–137. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
2001. The Atoms of Language. New York: Basic Books.
2008a. The Syntax of Agreement and Concord. Cambridge University Press.
2008b. The Macroparameter in a Microparametric World. In
Theresa Biberauer (ed.), The Limits of Syntactic Variation, 351–374.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Baltin, M. 2004. Remarks on the Relation between Language Typology and
Universal Grammar. Studies in Language 28.3: 549–553.
Basse, G. 2008. Factive Complements as Defective Phases. WCCFL 27
Proceedings, 54–62. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Bech, G. 1955. Studien über das deutsche Verbum infinitum. Copenhagen:
Munksgaard.
Belletti, A. 2001. Inversion as Focalization. In A. Hulk and J.-Y. Pollock
(eds.), Subject Inversion in Romance and the Theory of Universal Grammar,
60–90. Oxford University Press.
2004. Aspects of the Low IP Area. In L. Rizzi (ed.), The Structure of CP and IP:
The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, 16–51. New York: Oxford
University Press.
2008. Answering Strategies: New Information Subjects and the Nature
of Clefts. In Structures and Strategies, 242–265. London: Routledge.
Belletti, A. and L. Rizzi. 1988. Psych-Verbs and Theta-Theory. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 6: 291–352.
Benincà, P. 2001. The Position of Topic and Focus in the Left Periphery. In
G. Cinque and L. Renzi (eds.), Current Studies in Italian Syntax, 39–64.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Benincà, P. and N. Munaro. 2010. Introduction. In P. Benincà & N. Munaro
(eds.), Mapping the Left Periphery, 3–15. Oxford University Press.
Benincà, P. & C. Poletto. 2004. Topic, Focus and V2: Defining the CP
Sublayers. In L. Rizzi (ed.), The Structure of CP and IP, 52–75. Oxford
University Press.
Bergsland, K. 1994. Sydsamisk grammatik. Karasjok: Davvi Girji o.s.
Besten, H. den. 1983. On the Interaction of Root Transformations and
Lexical Deletive Rules. In W. Abraham (ed.), On the Formal Syntax of
the Westgermania, 47–131. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Biberauer, T. & M. Richards. 2006. True Optionality: When the Grammar
doesn’t Mind. In C. Boeckx (ed.), Minimalist Essays, 35–67. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Bickerton, D. 1990. Language and Species. University of Chicago Press.
Biskup, P. 2011. Adverbials and the Phase Model. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
References 219
Boeckx, C. 2008. Bare Syntax. Oxford University Press.
Borer, H. 1984. Parametric Syntax: Case Studies in Semitic and Romance
Languages. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
1994. The Projection of Arguments. In E. Benedicto and J. Runner (eds.),
University of Massachusetts Occasional Papers in Linguistics 17, 19–47.
Amherst: GLSA.
2005a. In Name Only. Structuring Sense, vol. I. Oxford University Press.
2005b. The Normal Course of Events. Structuring Sense, vol. II. Oxford
University Press.
Bošković, Ž. 2002. A-Movement and the EPP. Syntax 5: 167–218.
Bowerman, M. 1974. Learning the Structure of Causative Verbs: A Study in
the Relationship of Cognitive, Semantic, and Syntactic Development.
Papers and Reports on Child Language Development, 8: 142–178.
Bowers, J. 2010. Arguments as Relations. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bresnan, J. 1972. Theory of Complementation in English Syntax. Doctoral
dissertation, MIT.
Bril, I. (ed.). 2010. Clause Linking and Clause Hierarchy. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Butler, J. 2003. A Minimalist Treatment of Modality. Lingua 113: 967–996.
2004. On Having Arguments and Agreeing: Semantic EPP. York Papers in
Linguistics 2.1: 1–27.
Bybee, J. 1985. Morphology. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bybee, J. and S. Fleischman (eds.). 1995. Modality in Grammar and Discourse.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Carnie, A. 2007. Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Carstens, V. 2012. Delayed valuation: A Reanalysis of “upwards”
Complementizer Agreement and the Mechanics of case.
Unpublished manuscript.
Chocano, Gema 2007. Narrow Syntax and Phonological Form: Scrambling in the
Germanic Languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chomsky, N. 1955. The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory. Manuscript.
Published in 1975. New York: Plenum Press.
1957. Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton.
1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1970. Remarks on Nominalization. In R. Jacobs and P. Rosenbaum (eds.),
Readings in English Transformational Grammar, 184–221. Waltham: Ginn.
1971. Deep Structure, Surface Structure and Semantic Interpretation. In
D. Steinberg and L. Jakobovits (eds.), Semantics: An Interdisciplinary
Reader in Linguistics, Philosophy and Psychology, 183–216. Cambridge
University Press.
1973. Conditions on Transformations. In S. Anderson and P. Kiparsky
(eds.), A Festschrift for Morris Halle, 232–285. New York: Holt, Rinehart,
and Winston.
1975. Reflections on Language. London: Fontana.
220 References
1997a. Essays on Form and Interpretation. New York: Elsevier North-
Holland.
1977b. On Wh-Movement. In P. Culicover, T. Wasow, and A. Akmajian
(eds.), Formal Syntax, 71–132. New York: Academic Press.
1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
1982. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1986a. Knowledge of Language. New York: Praeger.
1986b. Barriers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1989. Some Notes on Economy of Derivation and Representation
[reprinted as chapter 2 of Chomsky 1995, and references to that].
1992. A Minimalist Program for Linguistic Theory. MIT Occasional
Working Papers in Linguistics.
1993. Language and Thought. Wakefield: Moyer Bell.
1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2000. Minimalist Inquiries: The Framework. In R. Martin, D. Michaels, and
J. Uriagereka (eds.), Step by Step: Essays in Syntax in Honor of Howard Lasnik,
89–155. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. [originally published 1998]
2001. Derivation by Phase. In M. Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A Life in
Language, 1–52. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2002. On Nature and Language. Cambridge University Press.
2004. Beyond Explanatory Adequacy. In A. Belletti (ed.), Structures and
Beyond, 104–131. Oxford University Press.
2005. Three Factors in Language Design. Linguistic Inquiry 36.1: 1–22.
2007. Approaching UG from Below. In U. Sauerland and H.-M. Gärtner
(eds.), Interfaces + Recursion = Language?, 1–29. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2008a. The Biolinguistic Program: Where does it Stand Today? ms.
2008b. On Phases. In R. Freidin, C. P. Otero, and M. L. Zubizarreta (eds.),
Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory. Essays in Honor of Jean-Roger
Vergnaud, 134–166. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2011. Problems of Projection. ms.
Chung, S. and J. McCloskey. 1983. On the Interpretation of Certain Island
Facts in GPSG. Linguistic Inquiry 14: 704–713.
Cinque, G. 1990. Types of A’-Dependencies. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1999. Adverbs and Functional Heads. Oxford University Press.
Cinque, G. and L. Rizzi. 2008. The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, ed.
V. Moscati, CISCL Working Papers on Language and Cognition 2. 43–
59. www.ciscl.unisi.it/doc/doc_pub/cinque-rizzi2008-The_cartography_
of_Syntactic_Structures.pdf
Collins, C. 2005. A Smuggling Approach to the Passive in English. Syntax 8:
81–120.
Comrie, B. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge University Press.
1981. Language Universals and Linguistic Typology: Syntax and Morphology.
Chicago University Press.
References 221
2006. Transitivity Pairs, Markedness, and Diachronic Stability. Linguistics
44.2: 303–318.
Crowley & C. Bowern. 2010. An Introduction to Historical Linguistics. Oxford
University Press.
Cysouw, M. 2003. The Paradigmatic Structure of Person Marking. Oxford
University Press.
2008. Generalizing Scales. In M. Richards & A. Malchukov (eds.), Scales,
Linguistische Arbeitsberichte 86: 379–396.
Daly, J. 1973. A Generative Syntax of Peñoles Mixtec. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
Davidson, D. 1980. Essays on Actions and Events. Oxford University Press.
Davies, M. & D. Gardner. 2007. Pointing out Frequent Phrasal Verbs: A
Corpus-Based Analysis. TESOL Quarterly 41: 339–359.
de Cat, C. 2007. French Dislocation. Oxford University Press.
Diesing, M. 1992. Indefinites. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1997. Yiddish VP Structure and the Typology of Object Movement.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 15.2: 369–427.
Dillon, M. & D. ó Cróinı́n. 1961. Irish. London: The English Universities
Press.
Dixon, R. & A. Aikhenvald. 2006. Serial Verb Constructions: A Cross-Linguistic
Typology. Oxford University Press.
Donohue, M. 1999. A Grammar of Tukang Besi. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Drach, E. 1937. Grundgedanken der deutschen Satzlehre. Frankfurt:
Diesterweg.
Dryer, M. 1992. The Greenbergian Word Order Correlations. Language 68:
81–138.
2011a. Expression of Pronominal Subjects. In M. Dryer and M. Haspelmath
(eds.), The World Atlas of Language Structures Online. Munich: Max Planck
Digital Library, feature 101A. Accessed December 27, 2011.
2011b. Polar Questions. In M. Dryer and M. Haspelmath (eds.), The World
Atlas of Language Structures Online. Munich: Max Planck Digital Library,
feature 116A. Accessed December 27, 2011.
Emonds, J. 1976. A Transformational Approach to English Syntax. New York:
Academic Press.
Enç, M. 1987. Anchoring Conditions for Tense. Linguistic Inquiry 18: 633–
657.
Ernst, T. (2002). The Syntax of Adjuncts. Cambridge University Press.
Fillmore, C. 1968. The Case for Case. In E. Bach and R. T. Harms (eds.),
Universals in Linguistic Theory, 1–88. New York: Holt, Rinehart, and
Winston.
Folli, R. & H. Harley. 2007. Causation, Obligation and Argument Structure:
On the Nature of Little v. Linguistic Inquiry 38.2: 97–238.
Fong, S. 2005. Computation with Probes and Goals. In A. M. DiSciullo (ed.),
UG and External Systems, 311–333. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
222 References
Forchheimer, P. 1953. The Category of Person in Language. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Frascarelli, M. 2007. Subjects, Topics and the Interpretation of Referential
Pro. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 25.4: 691–734.
Frascarelli, M. & R. Hinterhölzl. 2007. Types of Topics in German and
Italian. In K. Schwabe & S. Winkler (eds.), On Information Structure,
Meaning and Form, 87–116. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Frey, W. 2003. On Some Dislocation Constructions in German and English. http://
amor.cms.hu-berlin.de/~h0594bbb/pdf-files/2003-Frey-Dislocation.pdf
Fukui N. & M. Speas. 1986. Specifiers and Projection. MITWPL 8: 128–172.
Gallego, A. 2010. Phase Theory. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Geach, P. 1957. Mental Acts. London: Routledge, Kegan, and Paul.
Gelderen, E. van. 1993. The Rise of Functional Categories. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
1997a. Verbal Agreement. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
1997b. Structures of Tense and Aspect. Linguistic Analysis 27.3–4: 138–
165.
2000. A History of English Reflexive Pronouns. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
2004. Grammaticalization as Economy. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
2010. A Grammar of English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
2011. The Linguistic Cycle. Oxford University Press.
Giannakidou, A. 1998. Polarity Sensitivity as (Non)Veridical Dependency.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, T. 1971. Historical Syntax and Synchronic Morphology. Chicago
Linguistic Society Proceedings 7: 394–415.
1978. Negation in Language. In P. Cole (ed.), Syntax & Semantics 9: 69–112.
New York: Academic Press.
1980. The Binding Hierarchy and the Typology of Complements. Studies
in Language 4: 333–378.
1983. Topic Continuity in Discourse: An Introduction. In T. Givón (ed.),
Topic continuity in Discourse, 1–41. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
1990. Syntax: A Functional-Typological Introduction. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2006. Multiple Routes to Clause Union. ms.
2009. The Genesis of Syntactic Complexity. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Greenberg, J. 1963. Universals of Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gruber, J. 1965. Studies in Lexical Relations. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Guasti, M. 2002. Language Acquisition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Guimarães, M. 2000. In Defense of Vacuous Projections in Bare Phrase
Structure. University of Maryland Working Papers in Linguistics 9: 90–115.
Hacquard, V. 2009. On the Interaction of Aspect and Modal Auxiliaries.
Linguistics and Philosophy 32: 279–315.
2010. On the Event-Relativity of Modal Auxiliaries. Natural Language
Semantics 18.1: 79–114.
Haegeman, L. 1995. The Syntax of Negation. Cambridge University Press.
References 223
2006. Argument Fronting in English, Romance CLLD, and the Left
Periphery. In R. Zanuttini, H. Campos, E. Herburger, and
P. H. Portner (eds.), Crosslinguistic Research in Syntax and Semantics, 27–
52. Washington: Georgetown University Press.
Haiden, M. 2005. Theta Theory. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Haider, H. 2000. Adverb Placement – Convergence of Structure and
Licensing. Theoretical Linguistics 26: 95–134.
Haiman, J. 2010. Cambodian Khmer. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hale, K. 1992. Basic Word Order in Two “Free Word Order” Languages. In
D. Payne (ed.), Pragmatics of Word Order Flexibility, 63–82. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Hale, K. and S. J. Keyser. 1993. On Argument Structure and the Lexical
Expression of Syntactic Relations. In K. Hale and J. Keyser (eds.), The
View from Building 20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2002. Prolegomenon to a Theory of Argument Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Harley, H. 1995. Subjects, Events, and Licensing. Doctoral dissertation,
MIT.
2002. Possession and the Double Object Construction. Linguistic Variation
Yearbook 2: 31–70.
Harley, H. & E. Ritter. 2002. Person and Number in Pronouns: A Feature-
Geometric Analysis. Language 78.3: 482–526.
Haspelmath, M. 1993. More on the Typology of the Inchoative/Causative
Verb Alternations. In B. Comrie & M. Polinsky (eds.), Causatives and
Transitivity, 87–120. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
2010. Ditransitive Constructions: The Verb “Give”. In M. S. Dryer and
M. Haspelmath (eds.), The World Atlas of Language Structures Online.
Munich: Max Planck Digital Library, feature 105A. Accessed
December 28, 2011.
Haumann, D. 2007. Adverb Licensing and Clause Structure in English.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hazout, I. 2004. The Syntax of Existential Constructions. Linguistic Inquiry
35: 393–430.
Hegarty, M. 2005. A Feature-Based Syntax of Functional Categories: The Structure,
Acquisition, and Specific Impairment. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Heine, B. & T. Kuteva. 2002. World Lexicon of Grammaticalization. Cambridge
University Press.
Henry, A. 1995. Belfast English and Standard English. Oxford University Press.
Hoekstra, E. 1993. Dialectal Variation inside CP as Parametric Variation.
Linguistische Berichte 5: 161–179.
Holmberg, A. 1986. Word Order and the Syntactic Features in the
Scandinavian Languages and English. Doctoral dissertation, University
of Stockholm.
Hooper, J. and S. Thompson. 1973. On the Applicability of Root
Transformations. Linguistic Inquiry 4.4: 465–497.
224 References
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson. 1980. Transitivity in Grammar and
Discourse. Language 56. 2: 251–299.
Hornstein, N. 1999. Movement and Control. Linguistic Inquiry 30.1: 69–96.
Huang, C. -T. James. 1982. Logical Relations in Chinese and the Theory of
Grammar. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Iggesen, O. A. 2011. Number of Cases. In M. Dryer and M. Haspelmath,
(eds.), The World Atlas of Language Structures Online. Munich: Max Planck
Digital Library, feature 49A. Accessed December 27, 2011.
Ingram, D. 1978. Typology and Universals of Personal Pronouns. In
J. Greenberg (ed.), Universals of Human Language, vol. III, 213–247.
Stanford University Press.
Isac, D. 2012. Decomposing Force. In A. M. DiSciullo (ed.), Towards a
Biolinguistic Understanding of Grammar, 87–116. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Jackendoff, R. 1972. Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1977. X-bar-Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1990. Semantic Structures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2002. Foundations of Language. Oxford University Press.
Jayaseelan, K. A. 2001. IP-internal Topic and Focus Positions. Studia
Linguistica 55: 39–75.
Jeong, Y. 2007. Applicatives. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Jespersen, O. [1922] 1959. Language. London: George Allen & Unwin.
Jones, M. 1992. Infinitives with Specified Subjects in Sardinian. In
C. Laeufer & T. A. Morgan (eds.), Theoretical Analyses in Romance
Linguistics, 295–310. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kari, J. 1990. Ahtna Athabaskan Dictionary. Anchorage: Alaska Native
Language Center.
Kayne, R. 1989. Facets of Romance Past Participle Agreement. In P. Benincà
(ed.), Dialect Variation and the Theory of Grammar, 85–103. Dordrecht: Foris.
1993. Toward a Modular Theory of Auxiliary Selection. Studia Linguistica
47: 3–31.
1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2005. Some Notes on Comparative Syntax, with Special Reference to
English and French. In G. Cinque and R. Kayne (eds.), The Oxford
Handbook of Comparative Syntax, 3–69. Oxford University Press.
2010. Why are there No Directionality Parameters? ms.
2011. Some Thoughts on Syntax in 2011. Talk, Potsdam.
Keenan, E. 1976. Toward a Universal Definition of “subject”. In C. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic, 303–334. New York: Academic Press.
Kimball, J. & J. Aissen. 1971. I Think, You Think, He Think. Linguistic Inquiry
2: 241–246.
Kiparsky, P. 1998. Partitive Case and Aspect. In M. Butt and W. Geuder
(eds.), The Projection of Arguments, 265–307. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
References 225
Kiparsky, P. & C. Kiparsky. 1970. Fact. In M. Bierwisch and K. E. Heidolph
(eds.), Progress in Linguistics, 143–173. The Hague: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kiss, K. 1996. Two Subject Positions in English. The Linguistic Review 13: 119–
142.
1998. Identificational Focus versus Information Focus. Language 74: 245–
273.
2007. Topic and Focus. Interdisciplinary Studies on Information Structure 6:
69–81. www.sfb632.uni-potsdam.de/publications/isis06_4kiss.pdf
Koopman, H. & D. Sportiche. 1991. The Position of Subjects. Lingua 85.2/3:
211–258.
Koptjevska-Tamm, M. 1990. Finiteness. In K. Brown & J. Miller (eds.),
Concise Encyclopedia of Grammatical Categories, 146–149. Amsterdam:
Elsevier.
Koster, J. 1978. Locality Principles in Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
1986. Domains and Dynasties. Dordrecht: Foris.
1993. Towards a New Theory of Anaphoric Binding. ms, Groningen
University.
2000. Extraposition as parallel construal. http://odur.let.rug.nl/koster/
papers/parallel.pdf
2004. Syntaxis: Dynamisch of Cartografisch? TABU 33: 173–194.
2007. Structure Preservingness, Internal Merge, and the Strict Locality
of Triads. In S. Karimi, V. Samiian, and W. K. Wilkins (eds.), Phrasal and
Clausal Architecture: Syntactic Derivation and Interpretation, 188–205.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Kratzer, A. 1996. Severing the External Argument from its Verb. In
J. Rooryck and L. Zaring (eds.), Phrase Structure and the Lexicon, 109–
137. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kuczaj, S. 1976. -Ing, -s, -ed: A study of the Acquisition of Certain Verb
Inflections. Dissertation, University of Minnesota.
Kulikov, L. n.d. www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/tools-at-lingboard/pdf/Kulikov_
Diachronic_Valency_Changing_rev_Version.pdf
Kural, M. 1993. V-to(I-to)C in Turkish. UCLA Occasional Papers in Linguistics 11.
Kush, D., A. Omaki, and N. Hornstein (in press). Microvariation in Islands.
http://mind.cog.jhu.edu/~omaki/Kush_etal11_island_preprint.pdf
Laenzlinger, C. 2004. A Feature-Based Theory of Adverb Syntax. In
J. R. Austin, S. Engelberg, and G. Rauh (eds.), Adverbials: The Interplay
between Meaning, Context, and Syntactic Structure, 205–252. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Laka, I. 1994. On the Syntax of Negation. Outstanding Dissertations in
Linguistics Series. New York and London: Garland Publishing.
Lambrecht, K. 2010. Constraints on Subject-Focus Mapping in French and
English. In C. Breul and E. Göbbel (eds.), Comparative and Contrastive
Studies of Information Structure, 77–100. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Landau, B. 1994. Where’s What and What’s Where: The Language of
Objects in Space. Lingua 92: 259–296.
226 References
Landau, I. 2012. The Locative Syntax of Experiences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Larson, R. 1988. On the Double Object Construction. Linguistic Inquiry 19:
335–391.
Lasnik, H. 1999. Minimalist Analysis. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
2001. A Note on the EPP. Linguistic Inquiry 32.2: 356–362.
Lasnik, H. and M. Saito. 1992. Move: Conditions on its Application and Output.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Leiss, E. 2000. Artikel und Aspekt. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Letuchiy, A. 2010. Lability and spontaneity. In P. Brandt and M.G. Garcı́a
(eds.), Transitivity, 237–255. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Levin, B. and Malka Rappaport Hovav. 1995. Unaccusativity. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Li, C. and S. Thompson. 1974. An Explanation of Word Order Change: SVO
> SOV. Foundations of Language 12: 201–214.
1976. Subject and Topic: A New Typology of Language. In C. N. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic, 458–489. New York: Academic Press.
1981. Mandarin Chinese. Berkeley: California University Press.
Lohndal, T. 2012. Without Specifiers: Phrase Structure and Events.
Doctoral dissertation, UMD.
Lutz, Uli, G. Müller, and A. von Stechow. 2000. Wh-scope Marking.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lyons, J. 1977. Semantics I and II. Cambridge University Press.
Macaulay, M. 1996. A Grammar of Chalcatongo Mixtec. Berkeley: California
University Press.
Malchukov, A., M. Haspelmath, & B. Comrie. 2010. Studies in Ditransitive
Constructions: A Comparative Handbook. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Marelj, M. 2002. Rules that Govern the Co-occurrences of Theta-Clusters in
the Theta System. Theoretical Linguistics 28.3: 357–373.
2004. Middles and Argument Structure across Languages. Doctoral dis-
sertation, Utrecht.
Markman, E. 1994. Constraints on Word Meaning in Early Acquisition.
Lingua 92: 199–227.
May, R. 1985. Logical Form. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
McCloskey, J. 1991. Verb Fronting, Verb Second and the Left Edge of IP in
Irish. Talk, Stuttgart workshop on Comparative Germanic Syntax.
2006. Questions and Questioning in a Local English. In R. Zanuttini,
H. Campos, E. Herburger, and P. H. Portner (eds.), Crosslinguistic
Research in Syntax and Semantics, 87–126. Washington: Georgetown
University Press.
McGinnis, M. 2001. Variation in the Phase Structure of Applicatives.
Linguistic Variation Yearbook 1: 105–146.
2004. Lethal Ambiguity. Linguistic Inquiry 35.1: 47–95.
Medeiros, D. 2011. Economy of Command. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Arizona.
References 227
Mithun, M. 2000. The Reordering of Morphemes. In S. Gildea (ed.),
Reconstructing Grammar, 231–255. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
2008. Borrowed Rhetorical Constructions as Starting Points for
Grammaticalization. In A. Bergs and G. Diewald (eds), Constructions
and Language Change, 195–230. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Mohammad, M. 1989. The Sentential Structure of Arabic. Doctoral disser-
tation, University of Southern California.
Moro, A. 1997. The Raising of Predicates. Cambridge University Press.
Muysken, P. 2008. Functional Categories. Cambridge University Press.
Newmeyer, F. 2005. Possible and Probable Languages: A Generative Perspective on
Linguistic Typology. Oxford University Press.
Nichols, J., D. Peterson & J. Barnes. 2004. Transitivizing and
Detransitivising Languages. Linguistic Typology 8.2: 149–211.
Noonan, M. 1985. Complementation. In T. Shopen (ed.), Language Typology
and Syntactic Description, vol. II, 42–140. Cambridge University Press.
Nordström, J. 2010. Modality and Subordinators. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Nunes, J. 2004. Linearization of Chains and Sideward Movement. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Oehrle, R. 1976. The Grammatical Status of the English Dative Alternation.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Olsway, C. 2004. The Hungarian Verbal Complex: An Alternative
Approach. In K. É. Kiss & H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), Verb Clusters: A Study
of Hungarian, German and Dutch, 290–333. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ouhalla, J. 1990. Sentential Negation, Relativized Minimality and the
Aspectual Status of Auxiliaries. The Linguistic Review 7: 183–231.
Palmer, F. R. 2001. Mood and Modality. Cambridge University Press.
Parsons, T. 1990. Events in the Semantics of English: A Study in Subatomic
Semantics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Payne, T. 1997. Describing Morphosyntax: A Guide for Field Linguists. Cambridge
University Press.
Pérez-Leroux, A. T. 1995. Resumptives in the Acquisition of Relative
Clauses. Language Acquisition 4: 105–138.
Perlmutter, D. 1978. Impersonal Passives and the Unaccusative
Hypothesis. Proceedings from the 4th Regional Meeting of the Berkeley
Linguistics Society, 157–189.
Pesetsky, D. 1995. Zero Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Pesetsky, D. & E. Torrego. 2001. T-to-C Movement: Causes and
Consequences. In M. Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A Life in Language,
355–426. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2004. Tense, Case, and the Nature of Syntactic Categories. In J. Guéron &
J. Lecarme (eds.), The Syntax of Time, 495–538. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
2007. The Syntax of Valuation and the Interpretability of Features. In
S. Karimi, V. Samiian, and W. K. Wilkins (eds.), Phrasal and Clausal
Architecture, 262–294. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
228 References
Pietroski, P. 2005. Events and Semantic Architecture. Oxford University Press.
Platzack, C. 1983. Germanic Word Order and the COMP/INFL Parameter.
Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 2.
Platzack, C. & I. Rosengren. 1998. On the Subject of Imperatives: A
Minimalist Account of the Imperative Clause. The Journal of
Comparative Linguistics 1: 177–224.
Poletto, C. The Higher Functional Field. Oxford University Press.
Pollock, J.-Y. 1989. Verb movement, Universal Grammar, and the Structure
of IP. Linguistic Inquiry 20: 365–424.
Postal, P. 2010. Edge-Based Clausal Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Potsdam, E. 1998. Syntactic Issues in the English Imperative. Outstanding
Dissertations in Linguistics. New York: Garland Publishing, Inc.
Prince, E. 1981. Toward a Taxonomy of Given-New Information. In P. Cole,
(ed.) Radical Pragmatics, 223–56. New York: Academic Press.
Pylkkänen, L. 2008. Introducing Arguments. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Radford, A. 2000. Children in Search of Perfection: Towards a Minimalist
Model of Acquisition. Essex Research Reports in Linguistics 34. (http://
privatewww.essex.ac.uk/~radford/PapersPublications/perfection.htm
2009. Analysing English Sentences. Cambridge University Press.
Ramchand, G. 2008. Verb Meaning and the Lexicon. Cambridge University
Press.
Rappaport Hovav, M. and B. Levin. 1998. Building Verb Meanings. In
M. Butt and W. Geuder (eds.), The Projection of Arguments: Lexical and
Compositional Factors, 97–134. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Reinhart, T. 2002. The Theta System: An Overview. Theoretical Linguistics
28:3: 229–290.
2006. Interface Strategies. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rice, K. 2000. Monadic Verbs and Argument Structure in Ahtna, Slave and
Navajo. In T. Fernald & P. Platero (eds.), The Athabaskan Languages, 167–
199. Oxford University Press.
Richards, M. 2007. Object Shift, Phases, and Transitive Expletive
Constructions in Germanic. In P. Pica, J. Rooryck, and J. van
Craenenbroeck (eds.), Linguistic Variation Yearbook 6, 139–159.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. www.uni-leipzig.de/~richards/
MRichards_LinguisticVariation_Leipzig.pdf
2008. Two Kinds of Variation in a Minimalist System. Varieties of
Competition. In F. Heck, G. Müller & Jochen Trommer (eds.),
Linguistische Arbeits Berichte 87, 133–162. www.uni-leipzig.de/~asw/lab/
lab87/LAB87_richards.pdf
Richards, M. & T. Biberauer. 2005. Explaining “Expl”. In M. den Dikken &
C. M. Tortora (eds.), The Function of Function Words and Functional
Categories, 115–153. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ritter, E. 1995. On the Syntactic Category of Pronouns and Agreement.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 13: 405–443.
Rizzi, L. 1982. Issues in Italian Linguistics. Dordrecht: Foris.
References 229
1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1997. The Fine Structure of the Left Periphery. In L. Haegeman (ed.),
Elements of Grammar, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
2001. On the Position “Int(errogative)” in the Left Periphery of the
Clause. In G. Cinque, L. Renzi, and G. Salvi (eds.), Current Studies in
Italian Syntax, 287–296. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
2004. Locality and Left Periphery. In A. Belletti (ed.), Structures and
Beyond, 223–251. Oxford University Press.
Roberts, I. 2010. Agreement and Head Movement. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Roberts, I. & A. Holmberg (eds.). 2010. Null Subjects: The Structure of Parametric
Variation. Cambridge University Press.
Rochette, A. 1988. Semantic and Syntactic Aspects of Romance Sentential
Complementation. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Rosen, C. 1984. The Interface between Semantic Roles and Initial
Grammatical Relations. In D. Perlmutter and C. Rosen (eds.), Studies
in Relational Grammar 2, 38–77. Chicago University Press.
Rosenbaum, P. 1976. The Grammar of English Predicate Complement
Constructions. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rosengren, I. 2002. EPP: A Syntactic Device in the Service of Semantics.
Studia Linguistica 56.2: 145–190.
Ross, J. 1967. Constraints on Variables in Syntax. Doctoral dissertation,
MIT.
Roussou, A. 2000. On the Left-Periphery: Modal Particles and
Complementisers. Journal of Greek Linguistics 1: 65–94.
Ryan, J. 2012. The Genesis of Argument Structure. Saarbrucken: Lambert
Publishing.
Sadock, J. and A. Zwicky. 1985. Sentence Types. In T. Shopen (ed.), Language
Typology and Syntactic Description, vol. I, Clause Structure, 155–196.
Cambridge University Press.
Schachter, P. 1976. The Subject in Philippine Languages: Topic, Actor,
Actor-Topic, or None of the Above. In C. Li, Subject and Topic, 491–
518. San Diego: Academic Press.
Schein, B. 1993. Plurals and Events. Cambridge, MA: Academic MIT Press.
Schweikert, W. 2005. The Order of Prepositional Phrases in the Structure of the
Clause. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Shibatani, M. & P. Pardeshi. 2001. The Causative Continuum. www.lit.
kobe-u.ac.jp/linguistics/KPL/3_2001/KPL_2001_shibatani-pardeshi.pdf
Shlonsky, U. 2010. The Cartographic Enterprise in Syntax. Language and
Linguistics Compass 4/6: 417–429.
Shu, C.-H. 2011. Sentence Adverbs in the Kingdom of Agree. Doctoral
dissertation, Stony Brook.
Siewierska, A. 2011. Verbal Person Marking. In M. Haspelmath, M. Dryer,
D. Gil & B. Comrie (eds.), The World Atlas of Language Structures Online.
Munich: Max Planck Digital Library, chapter 102. Accessed December
28, 2011.
230 References
Siewierska, A. & D. Bakker. 2009. Case and Alternative Strategies. In
A. Malchukov and A. Spencer (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Case, 290–
303. Oxford University Press.
Sigurðsson, H. 2011. Conditions on Argument Drop. Linguistic Inquiry 42.2:
267–304.
Slobodchikoff, C. 2010. Alarm Calls in Birds and Mammals. In M. Breed
and J. Moore (eds.), Encyclopedia of Animal Behavior, vol. I, 40–43. Oxford:
Academic Press.
Solà, J. 1996. Morphology and Word Order in Germanic Languages. In
W. Abraham, S. D. Epstein, Höskuldur Thráinsson, and C. J.-W. Zwart
(eds.), Minimal Ideas, 217–251. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sorace, A. 2000. Gradients in Auxiliary Selection with Intransitive Verbs.
Language 76.4: 859–890.
Sportiche, D. 1988. A Theory of Floating Quantifiers and its Corollaries for
Constituent Structure. Linguistic Inquiry 19.2: 425–451.
Stewart, O. 2001. The Serial Verb Construction Parameter. New York: Garland.
Stowell, T. 1981. Origins of Phrase Structure. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Stroik, T. 2009. Locality in Minimalist Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Swartz, S. 1988. Pragmatic Structure and Word Order in Warlpiri. Papers in
Australian linguistics 17: 151–166. PL, A-71.
Tenny, C. L. 1994. Aspectual Roles and the Syntax-Semantics Interface.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
2000. Core Events and Adverbial Modification. In C. Tenny and
J. Pustejovsky (eds.), Events as Grammatical Objects, 285–334. Stanford:
CSLI Publications.
Tomasello, M. 1992. First Verbs. Cambridge University Press.
Topping, D. 1973. Chamorro Reference Grammar. Honolulu: University of
Hawaii Press.
Travis, L. 1984. Parameters and Effects of Word Order Variation. Doctoral
dissertation, MIT.
Trudgill, P. 1974. The Social Differentiation of English in Norwich. Cambridge
University Press.
Uriagereka, J. 2011. Spell-Out and the Minimalist Program. Oxford University
Press.
Vendler, Z. 1967. Verbs and Times. Philosophical Review 66: 143–160.
Vergnaud, J.-R. 2008. Letter to Noam Chomsky and Howard Lasnik. In
R. Freidin, C. P. Otero, and M. L. Zubizarreta (eds.), Foundational Issues
in Linguistic Theory, 3–16. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Verkuyl, H. 1972. On the Compositional Nature of Aspects. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Visser, F. 1963–1973. An Historical Syntax of the English Grammar, Vols I–IIIb.
Leiden: Brill.
Watkins, L. 1990. Noun Phrase versus Zero in Kiowa Discourse.
International Journal of American Linguistics 56.3: 410–426.
Watters, J. 2000. Syntax. In B. Heine & D. Nurse (eds.), African Languages,
194–230. Cambridge University Press.
References 231
Williams, E. 1981. Argument Structure and Morphology. The Linguistic
Review 1: 81–114.
1994. Thematic Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Willie, M. 1991. Navajo Pronouns and Obviation. Dissertation, University of
Arizona.
Willis, D. 2007. Specifier-to-Head Reanalyses in the Complementizer
Domain: Evidence from Welsh. Transactions of the Philological Society
105.3: 432–480.
Wurff, W. van der. 2007. Imperative Clauses in Generative Grammar.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Yap, F. H., K. Grunow–Ha
º
rsta and J. Wrona (eds.). 2011. Nominalization in
Asian Languages: Diachronic and Typological Perspectives. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Zagona, K. 2007. Some Effects of Aspect on Tense Construal. Lingua 117:
464–502.
Zanuttini, R. 1997. Negation and Clausal Structure: A Comparative Study of
Romance Languages. Oxford University Press.
Zanuttini, R. and P. Portner. 2003. Exclamative Clauses: At the Syntax–
Semantics Interface. Language 79.1: 39–81.
Zepeda, O. [1983] 1994. A Papago Grammar. Tucson: University of Arizona
Press.
Zwicky, A. & G. Pullum. 1983. Cliticization vs. Inflection. Language 59.3:
502–513.
232 References
Index
ability, 122
accomplishment verb, 100
Aceh, 143
acquisition, 158
activity verb, 85, 100
adequacy, 1
descriptive, 1, 2, 206
explanatory, 1, 2, 206
adjunct, 8
adjunction, 153
adverb
position of, 126
adverbial, 44, 46, 68, 141
aspectual, 127
central, 170, 179, 188
circumstantial, 105
clause, 56
mood and modal, 128
peripheral, 170, 188
restriction, 171
spatial, 126
temporal, 126
affected object, 76
affix-hop, 118, 119, 120
Afrikaans, 135
Agent, 43, 78, 79, 80, 83, 86, 131
AGR, 10, 116, 119
AGREE, 14, 17, 139
agreement, 15, 32, 66
and relation to Case, 66
as superfluous, 149
in VS, 139
lack of number, 138
link to Case, 32
loss of, 135
with OV, 144
with the object, 137, 143
with VO, 144
Ahtna, 109
Ainu, 110
Aktionsart, 100, 193
animacy, 82, 86, 206
anti-causative, 92, 107
Applicative, 99
Arabic, 13, 138, 181, 182
Lebanese, 188
Archi, 143
argument
as opposed to adverbial, 44
one, 112
three, 83, 95
two, 95, 112
ASP, 85
aspect, 82, 100, 102, 111, 117, 193
grammatical, 193
inner, 97
assertive verb, 56
atelic verb, 77, 101
AUX, 115, 118
auxiliary, 22, 156, 169
order of, 141
auxiliary-choice, 87
bare phrase structure, 18, 23, 190
bare phrase Structure, 38
Basque, 202
binding, 25
Borer-Chomsky-Conjecture, 7
Brabant Dutch, 181
Bulgarian, 178
Cambodian, 72, 109
Cartography, 18, 22, 174
of the CP, 154
Case, 32
accusative, 12, 137
233
Case (cont.)
cross-linguistic, 145
genitive, 88
inherent, 136
nominative, 12, 41, 51, 129, 136
structural, 12
uninterpretable, 136
Case Dependence of Agreement
Parameter, 140
Case Filter, 11, 136
category
acquisition, 34
functional, 9, 14, 15, 25, 151, 205
lexical, 9
causative, 77, 92, 108, 113, 134
analytic, 94
lexical, 94, 108
synthetic, 94
causativization, 86, 89, 92
lack of, 93
Causer, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 89
acquisition, 107
c-command, 11, 27, 135, 196
asymmetric, 28
Central Pomo, 142
Chamorro, 110
change of location/state verb, 86
change of state verb, 92, 93, 100
Chinese, 21, 21, 70, 72, 183, 185
C-I interface, 186, 205
C-I system, 20
Cinque Hierarchy, 121, 122
circumstantial adverbial, 105
cleft, 200
coercion, 102, 112
cognate object, 86, 92
competence, 2
complement, 8, 46
Complement
clause, 58
complementizer, 35, 36, 48, 49, 56, 154,
158, 179, 180, 187
cross-linguistic, 180
features, 154
position, 160
temporal, 56
constructionist approach, 75, 84, 112,
205, 206
control verb, 188
coordination, 46
copy, 20
CP boundary, 53, 54
Czech, 127
dative alternation, 96
deadjectival verb, 89
deep-structure, 3
defective T, 163
definiteness, 21, 91, 102, 103, 111, 132,
145, 146
Definiteness Effect, 132
demonstrative pronoun, 157
denominal verb, 90
derivational approach, 22–23, 23, 206
direct causation, 94
Direction of Agreement Parameter, 140
ditransitive alternation, 98
ditransitive verb, 77, 95, 113
do, 119, 167, 168, 169
do so, 45
double object alternation, 75
double object verb, 97
dual number, 145
duration, 100
durative function, 162
durative verb, 67, 100, 101
durativity, 100
Dutch, 74, 87, 88, 105, 106, 111, 126,
132, 134, 146, 152, 181, 187,
197, 199
echo-question, 183
ECM, 53, 55, 163, 187
Economy Principle, 6, 63
edge, 30
E-language, 2
ellipsis, 47
embedded topic, 162
emotive verb, 54
epistemic marker, 124
EPP, 17–21, 19–22, 70, 117, 129, 130,
132, 134
for objects, 133
-er, 87
event initiated from the outside, 84
event time, 120
evidential adverbial, 106
evidential marker, 124
exaptation, 82
Exceptional Case Marking, 52, 163
234 Index
Experiencer, 78, 79, 80, 81, 99
expletive, 131
it, 78
Extended Projection Principle, 131
Extension Condition, 5
External Argument, 78
externally caused action, 92
extraction, 64
factive verb, 53, 55, 161
feature, 7, 15
acquisition, 31, 32
agreement, 15
animate, 33
bundles, 138
categorial, 15
checking, 16, 38
deictic, 157
EPP, 17, 132
formal, 15
future, 157
gender, 7, 14
inheritance, 163
innate, 25
interpretable, 15, 37
intrinsic, 16
inventory of, 31
mood, 42, 155
number, 14, 205
number of, 31
optional, 15
order, 205
overtly morphological, 135
person, 14, 138
phi-, 15, 36, 138, 157
phonological, 15
semantic, 15, 33
TMA, 124
uninterpretable, 16, 37
valuation, 19, 137, 163, 164
Feature Economy Principle, 35
Fin, 65, 154, 155, 160, 183
finiteness, 39, 40, 41, 48, 65, 136, 166
cross-linguistic, 69, 72
Finnish, 202
focus, 153, 177, 201
cleft, 177
contrastive, 177
definition, 173
identificational, 177
information, 177
movement, 178
Focus Phrase, 195
Force, 65, 154, 155, 160, 168
for-NP adverbial, 100
French, 52, 87, 134, 144, 146, 197,
198, 200
function, 49
Functional Hierarchy, 104
German, 87, 107, 126, 134, 142, 176, 184
Germanic, 199
goal, 17
Goal (theta-role), 78, 79, 80, 95, 99
Government and Binding, 7
grammatical function, 43, 44, 46, 48, 203
grammaticalization, 82
Greek, 141, 180, 181
Greenlandic, 184
habitual marker, 124
Hanging Topic, 168, 175, 185
Hausa, 110
head, 8, 27, 151
head and dependent marking, 32
Head Movement Constraint, 5
Head Preference Principle, 5
headedness, 6
hierarchical order, 26
Hindi/Urdu, 69, 184
Hungarian, 153
I(nflection), 9
Icelandic, 133
Identity Constraint, 82
I-language, 2
imperative verb, 168
subject of, 168
impersonal passive, 87
inchoative verb, 92
inchoative/causative alternation, 75, 93
Inclusiveness Condition, 5, 18, 37
Individual Level predicate, 199
Indonesian, 107
infinitival to, 119
infinitive, 70, 117, 118, 120
INFL, 119
information structure, 20
-ing, 117, 118
inheritance, 191
Index 235
inner aspect, 100
in-NP adverbial, 100
Instrument, 79, 80
interface, 19–20, 20, 28, 30, 46, 83, 205
PHON, 20
SEM, 20
internally motivated event, 84
interrogative mood, 134
intransitive, 86
intransitive verb, 76
transitivizes, 84
Irish, 146
island, 4, 64, 74, 175
Italian, 70, 87, 160, 176, 177, 185, 199
Kiowa, 71
Korean, 185
labeling, 26, 133
labile verb, 92, 94, 107
Latin, 145
layer, 43, 191, 205
CP-, 22, 65
TP-, 22, 31
vP-, 67
LCA, 27, 28, 61, 106
left dislocation, 153, 172, 174, 175
left periphery, 127, 154, 199
lexical aspect, 100
lexicalist approach, 75
light verb, 83, 92, 168, 205
Linear Correspondence Axiom, 26, 27
linear order, 26
linearization, 28
loanwords, 96
Location, 79
locative alternation, 113
locatum verb, 113
Macedonian, 183
macroparameter, 32, 140
mapping, 75, 79, 81, 112, 130
measure, 85
Melanesian Pidgin, 141, 142
Merge, 18
external, 18
internal, 18
self-Merge, 27
middle voice, 77
modal, 34, 41, 119, 125, 191
modal auxiliary, 117, 118
modifier, 46
mood, 39, 51, 54, 65, 117, 150,
166, 190
+/– realis, 51
adverb, 171
cross-linguistic, 69, 71
event-modality, 190
exclamative, 40, 169
imperative, 40, 167, 170
indicative, 40, 41
indicative/declarative, 166
interrogative, 40, 69, 166
optative, 40
propositional, 190
realis, 191
speech-act, 190
morphology, 15
Move alpha, 5, 12
movement, 29, 134, 146
head, 28, 135, 167
object, 146
partial, 184
phrasal, 29
remnant, 29
T to C, 134, 187
to CP, 183
to FocusP, 167
to Spec TP, 146
V to T, 134, 146
V to v, 134
verb, 136, 152
verb-, 169
wh-, 151
Navajo, 16, 70, 71, 72, 109, 141, 145
negation, 121, 195, 198
negative genitive case, 145
Negative Polarity, 135, 196
Negative Raising, 54
negative transitive, 88
No Tampering, 5
nominalization, 57, 74, 87
noun-complement, 61, 74
object, 44, 45, 129, 130
drop, 76
marking, 142
pronominal, 103, 133
two, 95
236 Index
object shift, 133, 146
obligation, 122
Ojibwa, 110
parsing, 38, 74
participle, 118, 120
passive verb, 131
passive voice, 77
passivization, 50, 99, 131
perfect aspect, 117
perfective aspect, 103
perfectivity, 102
performance, 2
Persian, 4
phase, 29, 64
Phase Impenetrability Condition, 5, 30
phrasal object, 46
phrasal verb, 84, 102, 103, 134
Plato’s problem, 2
polarity, 82
polysynthetic, 32, 70
Portuguese, 70
poverty of the stimulus, 2, 25, 34
PP hierarchy, 105
pragmatic role, 203
preposition, 35, 49
spatial, 158
temporal, 158
time, 35
present perfect form, 120
PRO, 129
probe, 17, 30, 117, 137, 155, 164
DP as, 137
probe-goal, 130, 144
directionality, 28
pro-drop, 6
progressive aspect, 77, 101, 117, 194
projection, 15, 22
Projection Principle, 130, 131
projectionist approach, 75, 84, 112, 205
Prominence Phrase, 172
pronoun
and features, 143
as source of agreement, 143
pronoun double, 173
protolanguage, 34
psych-verb, 79, 80, 81, 113
punctual verb, 76
quantifier, 168, 178, 198
floating, 14
Raising, 55, 163, 164
Raising verbs, 187
reference time, 120
reflexive pronoun, 25, 129
relative clause, 46, 57, 58, 140
island, 64
non-restrictive, 61
Relativized Minimality, 5
repetitive marker, 124
representational approach, 22–25
Result, 88
role
pragmatic, 43, 142, 172
semantic, 43, 142
Russian, 88, 107, 110, 145,
146, 184
S bar, 150
Sami, 202
Sanskrit, 108
Sardinian, 70
Scandinavian, 135
scope, 125, 126, 154
scrambling, 133, 146
self-merge, 27
semantic role, 43, 203, 205
serial verb, 72, 74
situation aspect, 100
SM system, 20
Somali, 110
Spanish, 10, 70, 146
Spec-Head, 11, 12, 14, 17, 117, 139,
140, 149
for number, 140
specifier, 8, 27, 151
Split Infl Hypothesis, 10
spontaneous action, 92
state verb, 100
Structure Preserving Hypothesis,
5, 26
Subjacency Principle, 5, 64
subject, 43, 44, 45, 129
and theta-role, 130
lack of subject function, 143
null, 129
specific, 132
Subject Matter, 80, 81
subject predicate, 46
surface structure, 3
SV, 12
Swedish, 134, 147, 152, 153
Index 237
T(ense), 9
Target, 79, 80
telic aspect, 91, 101
telicity, 100, 102
tense, 117
that-trace effect, 156
Thematic Feature Cluster, 80
Thematic Hierarchy, 79, 80, 82, 95
Theme, 43, 78, 79, 86, 88,
95, 131
acquisition, 108
theta-roles
identical, 82
theta-structure, 20–21
third factor, 5, 6, 33, 37, 82, 125, 126,
154, 206
Tohono O’odham, 140, 144
topic, 168, 173, 174
aboutness, 174, 184, 185
and movement, 152
continuing, 174
contrastive, 174, 184
definition, 173
embedded, 55
familiar, 174, 184
frame, 174, 176, 185
given, 174
hanging, 174, 175
recursive, 175
shifting, 174
topicalization, 66, 134, 153
trace, 37
transformation, 4, 118
transitive verb, 75, 76, 80, 91
highly, 76
transitive/intransitive alternation, 81
transitivization, 84
the lack of, 84
transitivizer, 109
transparency, 56, 64, 154
clause, 163
Tukang Besi, 143
Turkish, 16, 135
unaccusative, 86, 88
unaccusative verb, 75
unergative, 86, 88, 113
unergative verb, 75
Uniformity of Theta Assignment
Hypothesis, 79
Universal Grammar, 2, 6, 25, 26, 34, 37,
38, 125, 154, 205
Urdu/Hindi, 167
UTAH, 80, 82, 84, 95, 99, 112, 205, 206
valency, 75, 76, 77
cross-linguistic, 107
reduction, 77
variable, 174, 178
verb movement, 119
verb-second, 152, 182
voice, 75, 122
volition, 86, 122
VP-adverbial, 104
VP Internal Subject Hypothesis,
14, 131
vP-Layer, 91
lack of, 91
vP-shell, 13, 75, 83, 85, 113, 134
VS, 12
VSO, 146
Warlpiri, 145
weak crossover, 178
wh-movement, 2, 6, 151, 156, 162, 166,
174, 187
multiple, 183
wh-question, 183, 187
word order, 6, 28, 45, 138
free, 142, 145
of topic focus, 179
pragmatically determined, 146
topic and focus, 174
X-bar theory, 8, 12, 14, 26, 131
Yiddish, 133
238 Index
