PROLAB Symbols for Prosodic Annotation in KIM 15
Label Prosodic category
&0 unaccented (defocused)
&1 (partially) deaccented (partially foregrounded)
&2 default accent
&3 reinforced accent
Examples
&2Anna &0came &0with &2Manny. &1Anna &0came &0with &2Manny.
&0Anna &0came &0with &3Manny. &3Anna &0came &0with &1/&0Manny.
(2) Downstep and upstep (see 2.4)
Successive &2 accents within a prosodic phrase are by default downstepped,
i.e. lowered in pitch. This default downstep is not marked. Downstep may be
broken at any point for information structuring within the prosodic phrase by
stepping a &2 accent up to, or above, the level of the preceding &2 accent.
This upstep is marked by putting | before the number.
Example
&2Anna &0came &0with &|2Manny.
(3) Lexical stress (see 2.5, 2.6)
English and German have lexical stress which marks a place in the
syllable chain of a word where a sentence accent docks when the word receives
one.
Label (put before syllable nucleus) Prosodic category
' stressed-primary
" stressed-secondary
(unmarked) unstressed
Examples
'increase (noun), incr'ease (verb); b'uttercup (ﬂower), b'utterc"up (butter dish);
f'ourt'een, j'ust fourt'een, f'ourteen p'ounds
(4) Intonation (see 2.7, 2.8)
Sentence accents receive intonation markings for (rise-)falls (peak patterns) or
rises (valley patterns) or (rise-)fall-rises (peak-valley patterns) or level pitch.
The markings have two components, the direction of pitch movement and the
synchronisation of peak maxima (in peak and peak-valley patterns) and of val-
ley minima with the timing of supra-glottal articulation in the stressed syllables
of accented words. There are three levels of peak descent: to the speaker’s low
pitch range, or to a middle pitch range or levelling out at high pitch. Valleys
and peak-valleys are either low or high rising.
16 Introduction
Label Prosodic category
&2./1./0. peak
&,/&? valley: low or high rising
&.,/&.? peak-valley: low or high rising
&- &0. level
The direction marker is put before the next accent or before a PhrasinG-
marker &PG, always with spaces before and after.
Peak(-valley) maximum synchronisation has three location ranges: before
accented-vowel onset, shortly after onset or late in the accented syllable. Valley
minimum synchronisation has two location ranges: before or after accented-
vowel onset. There is, of course, no difference in level synchronisation. The
synchronisation labels are put after the number in the accent labels.
Label Prosodic category
Peak(-valley)
&3)/&2)/&1) early (fall begins at or before accented-vowel
onset)
&3^/&2^/&1^ medial (central rise-fall in the accented vowel)
&3(/&2(/&1( late (late fall in the accented vowel, or in a
following syllable, depending on timing
constraints, preceded by extensive rise)
&3^-(/&2^-(/&1^-( medial-to-late intermediate position between medial
and late
Valley
&3]/&2]/&1] early (rise begins at or before accented-vowel onset)
&3[/&2[/&1[ late (rise begins in the accented vowel)
Level
&3-/&2-/&1- accent strength is signalled by other properties
(duration, energy)
Examples
&2)Yes &2. &PG &2)Yes &1. &PG &2^Yes &2. &PG &2(Yes &2. &PG
&2^Yes &2., &PG &2]Yes &2, &PG &2[Yes &2, &PG &2]Yes &2? &PG
&3-Yes &0. &PG
(5) Concatenation of pitch patterns (see 2.9)
The different accent-intonation patterns can be freely concatenated to code
communicative functions. A special concatenation is the sequencing of peak
patterns without a dip in between. The results are hat patterns with &0. at the
ﬁrst peak maximum. Since the characteristic feature of the early peak is its
high-low descent into the accented syllable, it cannot occur in ﬁrst position in
a hat pattern. Similarly, since the characteristic feature of the late peak is its
low rise before the late fall, it cannot occur in second position.
PROLAB Symbols for Prosodic Annotation in KIM 17
When a hat pattern is folded around a central frequency line in a time-fre-
quency display we get a tub pattern. Tub patterns may be analysed as a concat-
enation of two low valleys without a high point between them. The direction
feature of the ﬁrst valley is labelled &0, analogous to &0. in the hat pattern.
Examples
&2(Anna came with &0. &2)Manny &2. &PG
&2[Anna came with &0, &2[Manny &, &PG
(6) Prehead and register (see 2.11)
Unaccented words before the ﬁrst accent in a prosodic phrase form its pre-
head, which may be either high or low pitch. High prehead is marked by &HP
prehead initially.
A speaker may change to a higher or a lower register from a default middle
one, for example to signal asides, or to expressively foreground long stretches
of talk in interaction. These departures from a neutral register are labelled
&HR and &LR, and put at the beginning of the prosodic phrase in which the
change occurs.
(7) Prosodic phrasing (see 2.12)
Information structure is coded by prosodic phrasing with different bundlings of
F0 direction, duration, energy and phonation at the junctures between phrases.
Four separation ranges, from weak to strong, are distinguished: &PG1–4.
18
1 Speech Communication in
Human Interaction
1.1 Human Interaction and the Organon Model
Humans interact for a variety of reasons:
• for survival and procreation, and for play, which they share with the
animal world
• for creating habitats and social bonds, which they basically share with
many animals
• for making tools and using them in their daily activities
• for selling and buying, and for business transactions in general
• for establishing, enforcing and observing social and legal codes
• for social contact, phatic communion and entertainment
• for reporting events and issuing warnings
• for instructing and learning
• for asking, and ﬁnding answers to, questions of religious belief, of
philosophical understanding, of scientiﬁc explanation, of historical
facts and developments
• for artistic pursuits for eye, ear and mind.
Central to all these human interactions is speech communication, i.e. commu-
nication via an articulatory–acoustic–auditory channel (AAA) between a send-
er and a receiver, supplemented by a gestural–optical–visual channel (GOV).
Speech communication is based on cognitive constructs that order the world
and human action in space and time. These constructs are manifested in the
AAA channel as words with their paradigmatic and phonotactic sound struc-
tures, and as syntagmatic organisations of words in utterances. The words and
phrase structures are linked to articulatory processes in speech production by
a speaker and to auditory patterns in speech perception and understanding by
a listener. Speech communication on the basis of such cognitive constructs,
of their formal representation, and articulatory and perceptual substantiation,
Human Interaction and the Organon Model 19
shared by speakers and listeners, performs three basic functions in sender–
receiver interaction:
(a) the transmission of symptoms relating to the sender’s feelings and
attitudes in the communicative act
(b) the emission of signals by a sender to a receiver to stimulate
behaviour
(c) the transmission of symbols mapped to objects and factual relations in
space and time, constructing the world in communicative acts.
This is Karl Bühler’s Organon Model (from Classical Greek ὄργανον, ‘instru-
ment, tool, organ’, after Aristotle’s works on logic: Bühler 1934, pp. 24–33;
see Figure 1.1), which relates the linguistic sign to the speaker, the listener,
and the world of objects and factual relations, in the communicative func-
tions of Expression (a), Appeal (b) and Representation (c). The objects in
the symbolic mapping of (c) are not just concrete things, e.g. ‘table’, ‘moun-
tain’, but also include abstract entities, e.g. ‘love’, ‘death’, and attributes, e.g.
‘redness’, ‘beauty’. The symbolic mapping to objects and factual relations
constitutes language structure [Sprachgebilde] based on social convention
binding individual speakers in their speech actions [Sprechhandlungen]. This
is, in Bühler’s terms (1934, pp. 48ff), de Saussure’s langue versus parole (de
Figure 1.1. The Organon Model according to Bühler (1934, p. 28), with the
original German labels, and their added English translations, of the three
relationships, functions and aspects of the linguistic SIGN Z(eichen).
OBJECTS AND
FACTUAL RELATIONS
Gegenstände
und Sachverhalte
Z
SIGN
Representation
Darstellung
symbol
Expression
Ausdruck
symptom
Sender
SENDER
Empfänger
RECEIVER
Appeal
Appell
signal
20 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
Saussure 1922). For the Representation function, the human mind devised
systems to capture linguistic signs graphically on durable material in order
to overcome the time and space binding of ﬂeeting signals through AAA and
GOV channels. These writing systems are either logographic, with reference to
the symbolic values of linguistic signs, or phonographic, with reference to their
sound properties, either syllabic or segmental. The latter, alphabetic writing,
was only invented once in the Semitic language family. It conquered the world
and became the basis of linguistic study, which has, for many centuries, fo-
cused on the Representation function in written texts, or on speech reduced
to alphabetic writing.
The three aspects of the linguistic sign – sender symptom, receiver-directed
signal, symbol-to-world mapping – are semasiological categories, with pri-
mary manifestation through the AAA channel, but accompanied in varying
degrees by the GOV channel, more particularly for the functions (a) and (b).
Bühler made it quite clear that he regarded the three functions of his Organon
Model as being operative in any speech action at any given moment, but with
varying strengths of each, depending on the communicative situation. In ra-
tional discourse, Representation with symbol-to-world mapping dominates;
in highly emotional communication, it is the symptoms of the Expression
function; in commands on the drill ground, the signals of the Appeal function;
a balance of signals and symptoms occurs in words of endearment or abuse. An
aggressive act may be totally devoid of symbolic meaning, as in the reported
case of a Bonn student silencing the most powerful market crier in the Bonn
fruit and vegetable market, eventually having her in tears, by simply reciting
the Greek and Hebrew alphabets loudly with pressed phonation: ‘Sie Alpha!
Sie Beta! …’ (Bühler 1934, p. 32).
The linguistic sign is at the centre of the model and has a direct iconic symp-
tom or signal relationship to the sender or the receiver in Expression and
Appeal, respectively, and an indirect symbolic relationship to objects and
factual relations in Representation. The direct or indirect relationships are
indicated by plain or dotted connection lines in Figure 1.1. The linguistic sign
is encapsulated in a circle encircling all three functions. Superimposed on, and
cutting across, this circle is a triangle connecting with the sign’s three func-
tions and covering a smaller area of the circle, as well as going beyond the area
of the circle with its three edges. The triangle represents Bühler’s principle of
abstractive relevance applied to the phonetic manifestation of the linguistic
sign, which is captured by the circle. The triangle contains only the commu-
nicatively relevant features of the total of phonetic properties, and at the same
time it adds functional aspects in relation to the three communicative functions
that are absent from the phonetic substance.
Human Interaction and the Organon Model 21
Abstractive relevance is also the basis for Bühler’s concept of phonology
versus phonetics, which he expounded in his seminal article of 1931 (Bühler
1931), and which Trubetzkoy took over in his Grundzüge of 1939. Abstrac-
tive relevance means that the total phonetic substance of the instantiation of a
linguistic sign is reduced to its functionally relevant phonetic features by an
abstractive scaling, not by abstract representation. Thus, phonology comes out
of phonetics, phonetics does not go into phonology, contrary to Ladd (2011),
who interpreted Prague phonology as an abstraction from phonetics that
stopped short of its logical conclusion (cf. Kohler 2013a). The mistake Prague
phonology made was not incomplete phonological abstraction from concrete
phonetics but the postulation of two disciplines, phonology and phonetics, of
which the former was furthermore linked with the humanities, the latter with
the natural sciences. The reason this happened lies in the methodology of early
experimental phonetics at the turn of the twentieth century, where linguistic
concepts disintegrated and objective truth was sought in speech curves of vari-
ous, mainly articulatory, origins and in the numbers derived from them (Scrip-
ture 1935, p. 135). This imbalance was put right again by the Prague linguists,
who reintroduced the functional aspect into phonetics, which had always been
present in the several thousand years of descriptive studies of speech sounds
in languages since the invention of alphabetic writing. Bühler’s concept of
abstractive relevance shows how this dichotomy can be overcome: there is
only one science of the sound of speech in human language – it determines the
functionally relevant features in speech communication in the languages of the
world from the broad array of sound in individual speech acts.
Bühler developed the concept of abstractive relevance in connection with
the symbolic mapping of sound markers of the linguistic sign to Objects and
Factual Relations in the Representation function, especially the sound
markers of names (words) assigned to objects. The entire sound impressions
of words are not relevant for the differential name-object mappings; only a
small number of systematically ordered distinctive sound features are. This
is the principal aspect of Prague segmental word phonology incorporated into
Bühler’s theory of language. Apart from lexical tone and stress, this frame-
work says nothing about prosodic phonology at the level of mapping formal
phrasal structures and factual relations in the world. Bühler left a gap in his
theory of language, which needs ﬁlling in two respects:
• He considers ‘musical modulation’ at the utterance level in the In-
do-European languages to be irrelevant for Representation, and
therefore free to be varied diacritically in the other two functions, for
example, adding an urgent Appeal to the German phrase ‘es regnet’
22 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
[it is raining] in order to remind a forgetful person to take an umbrella
(Bühler 1934, p. 46). Global unstructured utterance prosodies are seen
as Expression or Appeal overlays on structured phonematic lexical
soundmarkersinRepresentation.Thisisincompleteintworespects:
prosody can and does map symbolic relations in Representation,
and it is highly structured in all three functions. In Bühler’s time,
prosodic research was still in its infancy, so he was not able to draw
on as rich a data analysis as we can today.
• The function-form perspective is to map the functions of the Organon
Model, as well as subfunctions in each, and their formal systems and
structures at all linguistic levels, from phonetics/phonology through
the lexicon and morphology to syntax. For example, the investiga-
tion into Question versus Statement needs to consider word-order
syntax, question particles and prosody. In this way, prosody as the
acoustic exponent in symbolic phrase-level mapping is treated on a
par with other formal means, lexical and structural, and is thus fully
integrated into the theory of language and of language comparison.
Bühler saw the gap in his theory and set a goal for further development:
Let me stress the point once again: these are only phenomena of dominance,
in which one of the three fundamental relationships of the language sounds
is in the foreground. The decisive scientiﬁc veriﬁcation of our constitutional
formula, the Organon Model of language, has been given if it turns out
that each of the three relationships, each of the three semantic functions
of language signs discloses and identiﬁes a speciﬁc realm of linguistic
phenomena and facts. That is indeed the case. ‘Expression in language’ and
‘appeal in language’ are partial objects for all of language research, and thus
display their own speciﬁc structures in comparison with representation in
language … This is the thesis of the three functions of language in simplest
terms. It will be veriﬁed as a whole when all three books that the Organon
Model requires have been written. (Bühler 1934, p. 31f [2011, p. 39])
He himself concentrated on the Representation function, which he indicated
in the subtitle of the book. It resulted from an extensive study of the extant lit-
erature of Indo-European historical linguistics, with its focus on such topics as
the Indo-European case system, deixis and pronouns, anaphora, word and sen-
tence, compound, ellipsis and metaphor, generally dealing with Representa-
tion, written texts and historical comparison. He was also thoroughly familiar
with the Greek philosophers, with modern logic and with the philosophy of
language. He especially discussed Husserl’s Logische Untersuchungen and
Cartesianische Meditationen in some detail in connection with the concept of
Deictic and Symbolic Fields in Speech Communication 23
Sprechakte [speech acts], in which a speaker confers speciﬁc discourse-driven
meanings to words of a language, and which are distinguished from Sprech-
handlungen [speech actions], the unique hic et nunc utterances by individuals.
He also took de Saussure (1922), and especially Gardiner (1932) and Wege-
ner (1885), into account, who added the linguistic expert perspective to what
Bühler contributed as a psychologist working with language. The study of lan-
guage is a study of creative actions, not of a static linguistic object, because
language users interact through speech actions in communicative speech acts
by means of a Sprachgebilde [language structure] to create Sprachwerke [lan-
guage works]. This naturally led to the Organon Model and to looking beyond
Representation.
1.2 Deictic and Symbolic Fields in Speech Communication
In addition to the Organon Model, Bühler proposed a two-ﬁeld theory of
speech communication: the pointing or deictic ﬁeld and the naming or symbolic
ﬁeld. The deictic ﬁeld is one-dimensional, with systems of deictic elements
that receive their ordering in contexts of situation. In a pointing ﬁeld, a speaker
sets the sender origo of hic-nunc-ego coordinates, which position the speaker
in space and time for the communicative action. Within the set coordinates,
the sender transmits gestural and/or acoustic signals to a proximate or distant
receiver. These signals point to the sender, or to the receiver, or to the world of
objects away, or far away, from (the positions of) the sender and the receiver.
Receivers relate the received sender-, receiver- or world-related signals to their
own hic-nunc-ego coordinates to interpret them. The understanding of their
intended meanings relies on material signal properties that guide the receiver
through four different pointing dimensions: here or hic deixis; where-you-are
or istic deixis; there or illic deixis; and yonder deixis.
On the other hand, the symbolic ﬁeld in its most developed synsemantic
form is a ﬁeld where linguistic signs do not occur primarily in situational but
in linguistic contexts. It is two-dimensional, comprising systems of signs for
objects and factual relations, a lexicon, and structures, a syntax, into which
the systemic units are ordered. Another symbolic ﬁeld is the one-dimensional
sympractical ﬁeld, which contains systems of signs that are situation-related in
an action ﬁeld, rather than being anchored in linguistic context.
1.2.1 Deictic Field Structures
In deictic communication, the sender creates a situational ﬁeld in space
and time by using optical and acoustic signals in relation to the sender’s
24 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
hic-nunc-ego coordinates, and the receiver decodes these signals with refer-
ence to the receiver’s position in the created communal space-time situation. If
the signals are optical, they are gestures, including index ﬁnger or head point-
ing, and eye contact. If they are acoustic, they include linguistic signs, deictic
particles, demonstrative and personal pronouns, which function as attention
signals. These signals structure the deitic ﬁeld with reference to the four point-
ing dimensions. For each dimension, the relation may be at, to or from the
reference, as in the Latin deictic signs ‘hic’, at the sender, ‘huc’, to the sender,
‘hinc’, from the sender; ‘istic’, at the receiver, ‘istuc’, to the receiver, ‘istinc’,
from the receiver; ‘illic’, at a third-person place, ‘illuc’, to that place, ‘illinc’,
from that place. Yet pointing in a situational ﬁeld is always meant for a receiv-
er, even if there are no speciﬁc receiver-deictic signals. The linguistic signs
receive their referential meaning through the situational dimensions. ‘here’,
‘I’, ‘yours’, ‘that one over there’ are semantically unspeciﬁed outside the hic-
nunc-ego coordinates of the deictic ﬁeld. Languages differ a great deal in the
way they structure the deictic ﬁeld with deictic linguistic signs. Latin provides
a particularly systematic place-structure deixis. Linguistic deixis signs are not
only accompanied by gestures, but also by acoustic signals pointing to the
sender or the receiver.
1.2.1.1 here or hic Deixis
Hic deixis signalling points to the sender in two ways, giving (1) the position
and (2) the personal identiﬁcation of the sender.
(1) Position of the Sender When speaker B answers ‘Here’ from
a removed place after speaker A has called out, ‘Anna, where are you?’, the
deictic ‘here’ is deﬁned within sender B’s coordinates but remains unspeci-
ﬁed for receiver A unless the acoustics of the uttered word contain properties
pointing to the sender’s position in space, or, in the case of potential visual
contact between sender and receiver, are accompanied by a gestural signal
of a raised hand or index ﬁnger. The acoustic properties of signal energy and
signal directionality give A a fair idea of the distance and the direction of B’s
position in relation to A’s coordinates, indicating whether the sender is nearby,
e.g. in the same room or somewhere close in the open, but outside A’s visual
ﬁeld, or whether B is in an adjoining room, or on another ﬂoor or outside the
house. From their daily experience with speech interaction, both speaker and
listener are familiar with the generation and understanding of these sender-
related pointing signals.
Deictic and Symbolic Fields in Speech Communication 25
A different variety of this hic deixis occurs in response to hearing one’s
name in a roll call, which depends on visual contact for veriﬁcation. Raising
arm and index ﬁnger and/or calling out ‘Here’/‘Yes’ transmits the sender’s
position and personal (see (2) below) coordinates.
(2) Personal Identiﬁcation of the Sender A speaker B, waiting out-
side the door or gate to be let in, may answer ‘It’s me’ in response to a speaker
A asking ‘Who is there?’ over the intercom. This hic deixis is only under-
standable if A has a mental trace of B’s individual voice characteristics. Their
presence in a pointing signal allows the correct interpretation of an otherwise
unspeciﬁed ‘me’. Again, speakers and listeners are familiar with these material
properties of individualisation in speech interaction.
1.2.1.2 where-you-are or istic Deixis
ISTIC deixis signalling points to the receiver. Bühler thought that, contrary to
the other types of deixis, there are no speciﬁc systematic pointing signals for
ISTIC deixis, although he lists a few subsidiary devices on an articulated sound
basis, such as ‘pst’, ‘hey’, ‘hello’, or the reference to the receiver by ‘you’, or
by the personal name, accompanied by index ﬁnger pointing and/or head turn-
ing to the person to establish eye contact.
However, an examination of the various occurrences of ISTIC deixis, and
of the pitch patterns associated with them in English and German, shows up
a speciﬁc melodic device that is characteristic of utterances pointing to the
receiver, and that differs from pitch patterns used in other types of deixis and
in the synsemantic symbolic ﬁeld of speech communication. It is level pitch
stepping up or down, or staying level, as against continuous movement (see
2.14). Continuous pitch patterns form a system of distinctive differences for
coding Representation, Appeal and Expression functions in speech com-
munication in a particular language. They ﬁll speech communication with
sender-receiver-world content. On the other hand, stepping patterns function
as pointing signals to the receiver to control sender-receiver interaction; they
do not primarily ﬁll it with expression of the speaker, attitudes towards the
listener and representation of the world. The referential content is predictable
from the discourse context, and the sender shares an established and mutually
acknowledged routine convention with the receiver. These acoustic patterns of
ISTIC Deixis may occur interspersed in speech communication at any moment
to initiate, sustain and close speaker–listener interaction, with two different
functions, either to control connection with a receiver or to induce speciﬁc
action in a receiver. In all the varieties of ISTIC Deixis found in English and
26 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
German, which will be discussed as subcategories of an Appeal function in
4.1, stepping pitch patterns operate as such receiver-directed control signals.
When they are replaced by continuous contours in the same verbal contexts
they lose the simple pointing control characteristic and become commands,
expressive pronouncements and informative statements in acts of speech
communication.
1.2.1.3 Proximate and Distant Pointing: there or illic Deixis
and yonder Deixis
In order to point away from sender and receiver to objects in a proximate or a
distant pointing ﬁeld, arm and ﬁnger gestures are used as the standard signal.
Demonstrative pronouns and position adverbs, such as ‘that’ – ‘yon’, ‘there’ –
‘yonder’/‘over there’ in English, or ‘der’ – ‘jener’, ‘da’ – ‘dort’, ‘dort’ – ‘dort
drüben’/‘jenseits’ in German are linguistic signs used for pointing in symprac-
tical usage, accompanied by gesture, but they also operate anaphorically in a
synsemantic ﬁeld. The distinction between proximate and distant positions in a
speaker’s pointing ﬁeld coordinates is less clearly deﬁned than the one between
the positions of sender and receiver. Languages do not always have a stable,
formally marked system of proximate and distant position adverbs and demon-
strative pronouns. Even English ‘yon’ and ‘yonder’ are literary and archaic
outside dialectal, especially Scottish, usage, and German ‘da’ versus ‘dort’ are
unstable in their position references. Speakers use phrase constructions instead
to deﬁne different ﬁeld positions, for example ‘over there’ in English and ‘dort
drüben’ in German, or they deﬁne distant positions in relation to landmarks.
As regards signalling proximate and distant positions by gesture, stretching out
arm and index ﬁnger in the direction of an object may be used for the former,
an upward-downward arm–index ﬁnger movement for the latter.
Signalling in a pointing ﬁeld may combine a deixis gesture to objects with a
deixis gesture to the receiver. I recently observed an instance of this. I had just
got some cash out of an ATM but was still close to the machine when another
customer approached to use it. He turned his head towards me and, with his
far-away arm and index ﬁnger, pointed to the machine, asking ‘Fertig?’ [Fin-
ished?] (with high-level pitch). He identiﬁed the object he wanted to use after
me and, by looking at me, identiﬁed me as the receiver of his object pointing
and his enquiry, which he spoke with the acoustic stylisation of ISTIC Deixis, a
high-level pitch signalling ‘May I use this machine?’ This is a Deixis Appeal,
different from the Question Appeal ‘Is it true that you are ﬁnished with the
machine?’ (see 4.1, 4.2). The response may be ‘Ja, bitte’ or just ‘Bitte’ [(Yes,)
go ahead], which is impossible in the Question context.
Deictic and Symbolic Fields in Speech Communication 27
Now let’s visit a Scottish pub to illustrate the whole gamut of communicative
interaction that is possible with ordering beer, from a synsemantic description
to mere gesture. One may give the order ‘A pint of Caledonian 80/- please’,
with continuous pitch. In this situation, it is quite clear that it means ‘I want to
buy a pint of heavy draught beer sold under the Caledonian Company’s trade-
mark’, but nobody would use this synsemantic description. The order may be
shortened to ‘A pint of Caley 80, please’, again with continuous pitch. Or one
may just point to the label on a draught pump and say ‘Pint, please’, with a
high-level pitch pattern, to induce the receiver to act. This is accompanied by
turning one’s head towards the barman, to establish gestural contact. Or the
customer may point towards the pump with one hand and hold up the other
hand with ﬁngers raised according to the number of pints wanted. In a pub near
the Tynecastle Hearts football stadium in Edinburgh, called ‘The Diggers’,
because it used to be frequented by gravediggers from a nearby cemetery, this
gesturing can be further reduced to mere ﬁnger raising, because the barmen
know that regulars drink one of their fourteen types of heavy, of course by the
pint, and they also know who drinks Caley 80.
The speech versions of this pub order are self-sufﬁcient sympractical signs
in their own right, not ellipses of a synsemantic structure ‘Sell me a pint of
Caledonian 80/- heavy draught beer, please.’ In such a sympractical communi-
cation ﬁeld the transmission of symbolic meaning through speech is reduced to
the minimum considered necessary by the communicators; the action ﬁeld and
the situation supply the referential meaning, and the Expression and Appeal
functions are of secondary relevance. They may come in when speakers do not
get what they want. Interaction still works when gestures take over altogeth-
er. In this case, the question of an ellipsis simply does not arise, which also
casts doubt on any attempt to derive the linguistically reduced forms from fully
elaborated ones.
1.2.2 From Sympractical Deixis in Situations to Synsemantic
Symbols in Contexts
A sender communicating with a receiver may establish a hic-nunc-ego origo in
a deictic ﬁeld relating to their actual situation. In its simplest form, communi-
cation is just by gesture or by gesture accompanying sympractical speech, or
only by sympractical speech pointing to the situation that both sender and re-
ceiver are connected with (e.g. ‘mind the gap’/‘mind your step’ announcements
on the London Underground/at Schiphol Aiport, see 4.1.3(2)). The pointing in
this sympractical speech may be done by deictic particles and pronouns with
or without ﬁnger gesture, as in ‘The ﬂowers over there.’ Direct pointing by
28 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
gesture and/or deictic words may be removed in synsemantic place description
in relation to the origo, as in ‘The ﬂowers are on the table at the window in the
back room upstairs.’ But there is still some pointing in relation to the position
of the sender’s origo in such utterances, because they are only intelligible with
reference to the situation both sender and receiver are related to, and they pre-
suppose the receiver’s awareness of, and familiarity with, the locality.
In developing talk, a speaker may move the hic-nunc-ego origo from the
actual sender-receiver situation to a place and time in memories and imagi-
nation, and relate symbols to this new origo position, thus creating a virtual
deictic ﬁeld, which Bühler calls Deixis am Phantasma [Phantasma Deixis]
(Bühler 1934, pp. 121ff). In Indo-European languages the same deictic signs
are used as for pointing in actual situations (‘this (one)’, ‘that (one)’, ‘here’,
‘there’; German ‘dieser’, ‘jener’, ‘der(jenige)’), supplemented by position and
time adverbs and conjunctions. This pointing in displaced virtual situations is
found in narrating fairy tales:
Es war einmal ein kleines süßes Mädchen … Eines Tages sprach seine Mutter
zu ihm: … bring das der Großmutter hinaus…
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl … One day her mother said to
her: … take this to your grandmother…
or in storytelling of past or future events:
After a ﬁve-hour climb we arrived at the top of Ben Nevis. Here we ﬁrst of
all had a rest. Then we dug into our food. And when the fog lifted, we were
rewarded by the most spectacular view of the Highland scenery around and
below us.
or in giving direction:
You take the road north out of our village. When you get to a junction turn
right, then the ﬁrst left. You continue there for about a mile. Then the castle
will come into view.
Communicative action changes completely when symbols are anchored in the
context of linguistic structure and are freed from situations. Let’s assume that
on 3 April 2005, the day after Pope John Paul II died, a passenger on a New
York subway train says to the person beside him, ‘The Pope’s died’, refer-
ring to what he has just read in the paper. This statement is removed from the
place of the communicative situation between sender and receiver: it might
have been made anywhere around the world (in the respective languages), but
it is still linked to the time when the speaker makes it. In a proposition like
‘Two times two is four’ the time link is also severed. This is the self-contained
From Function to Form 29
synsemantic use of symbols in a symbolic ﬁeld to refer to objects and factual
relations, valid at all times and places, in statements of mathematics, logic and
science.
As regards the intonation of such sentences in oral communicative actions,
the occurrence of stepping pitch is all the more likely the stronger the sym-
practical deictic element. Synsemantic sentences have continuous pitch, ris-
ing-falling centered on ‘Pope’, and on the second ‘two’ in the above examples.
If ‘↓The ↑Pope’s died’ is spoken with upward-stepping pitch, it may, for ex-
ample, come from a newspaper seller in the street attracting the attention of
people passing by (‘Buy the paper, and read more about the news of the Pope’),
i.e. a receiver-directed signal puts the synsemantic sentence into a pointing
situation. Similarly, when saying the times tables by rote, for instance teach-
er-directed in class, an upward-stepping pattern will be given to the synseman-
tic sentence: ‘↓One times two is ↑two. ↓Two times two is ↑four. ↓Three times
two is ↑six…’, or shortened to ‘↓One two ↑two. ↓Two twos ↑four. ↓Three twos
↑six…’
There is another, quite different way of introducing pointing into the synse-
mantic symbolic ﬁeld: anaphora (Bühler 1934, pp. 121ff, 385ff). It reinforces
reference to the symbolic context because pointing occurs with backward or
forward reference to the internal structure of developing talk in the symbol-
ic ﬁeld, not with reference to the external situation: the symbolic (linguistic)
context functions as the pointing ﬁeld. In Indo-European languages, the expo-
nents are again the same deictics as for pointing in situations, supplemented
by position and time adverbs, conjunctions, relative and third-person personal
pronouns, fully integrated into the case system and syntax of the language. For
examples from German illustrating the distinction between external situation
and internal anaphoric pointing, see Abraham (2011, pp. xxiiff).
1.3 From Function to Form
1.3.1 Bühler and Functional Linguistics of the Prague School
Bühler places language functions at the centre of his theory of language and
then looks at their mapping with linguistic form, for example in the discussion
of the Indo-European case system as a formal device for representing objects
and factual relations of the world with symbols in a symbolic ﬁeld (Bühler
1934, pp. 249ff).
The model is thus eminently suited as a theoretical basis for a function-form
approach. The notion of function has played a role in many structural the-
ories of language that ask about the acts language users perform with the
30 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
formal tools. Functional theories of grammar strive to deﬁne these functions
and subsequently relate them to the structural carriers. The most elementary
function is the differentiation of representational meaning, in its simplest form
in functional phonetics. The Prague School linguists were the ﬁrst to develop
functional structuralism, starting with phonology, based on the principle of the
distinction of lexical meaning, rather than on the principle of complementary
distribution, as in American behaviourist structuralism.
Under the inﬂuence of Bühler’s Organon Model, Trubetzkoy (1939,
pp. 17ff) complemented the phonology of the Representation function
(‘Darstellungsphonologie’) by phonologies of the Expression and Appeal
(conative) functions (‘Ausdrucks- und Kundgabephonologie’), which he did
not always ﬁnd easy to separate, and which, following Prague systematising,
he allocated to a new discipline, called ‘sound stylistics’ (‘Lautstilistik’), with
two subsections. He subsumed vocalic lengthening, as in ‘It’s wonderful!’,
and initial consonant lengthening, as in ‘You’re a bastard!’, under the Appeal
function, because he maintained that the speaker signals to the listener to em-
pathise with his/her feelings. Isačenko (1966) rightly criticised this solution
as unacceptable psychologising and allocated such data to the Expression
function, which I do likewise. Mathesius (1966) extended the functional per-
spective to lexical and syntactic form (beside accentuation and intonation) for
Intensification and for Information Selection and Weighting. Con-
trary to general usage, he called the latter emphasis. Since this term is used
with a wide array of signiﬁcation I shall avoid it altogether and refer to the
two functions by the above pair of terms. An Intensification scale will be
incorporated into the Organon Model as the Expressive Low-to-High Key
function (see Chapter 5).
Jakobson (1960) took up the three functions of Bühler’s model as emotive,
conative and referential, oriented towards addresser, addressee and message
referent. He derived a magic, incantatory function from the triadic model as
a ‘conversion of an absent or inanimate “third person” into an addressee of a
conative message’ (p. 355). Prayer comes under this heading. And he added
another three functions (pp. 355ff):
• phatic serving to establish, prolong or discontinue communication:
‘Can you hear me?’ ‘Not a bad day, is it?’ – ‘It isn’t, is it, could be a
lot worse’ (an exchange between two hikers meeting in the Scottish
hills on a foggy, drizzly day)
• poetic focusing on the message for its own sake: rhythmic effects
make ‘Joan and Margery’ sound smoother than ‘Margery and Joan’;
From Function to Form 31
the poetic device of paronomasia selects ‘horrible’ instead of ‘terri-
ble’ in ‘I hate horrible Harry’
• metalingual, language turning back on itself: ‘What is a sophomore?’ –
‘A sophomore means a second-year student.’
Jakobson gives the following linguistic criteria for the poetic and metalingual
functions:
We must recall the two basic modes of arrangement used in verbal behavior,
selection and combination … The poetic function projects the principle
of equivalence from the axis of selection into the axis of combination.
Equivalence is promoted to the constitutive device of the sequence. In poetry
one syllable is equalised with any other syllable of the same sequence;
word stress is assumed to equal word stress, as unstress equals unstress …
Syllables are converted into units of measure, and so are morae or stresses …
in metalanguage the sequence is used to build an equation, whereas in poetry
the equation is used to build a sequence.
Jakobson’s additional communicative functions are an extension to Bühler’s
theory of language, but they are not on a par with the three functions of the
Organon Model; rather, they are functions within the domains of the sender,
the receiver and the referent. The phatic function is clearly receiver-directed
and constitutes one type of signalling. The metalingual function belongs to
the domain of objects and factual relations, and constitutes the essence of a
symbolic speech act. The poetic function is not a function in the sense of the
other two, i.e. of communicative action between a sender and a receiver. It is a
device characterising a speech act or a language work. As such, it may have an
aesthetic function to give sensuous pleasure, or a Guide function to increase
intelligibility, or a rhetorical function to persuade, as in advertising, in all cases
in the domain of the receiver. In the example of paronomasia given above, the
poetic device has a speaker-focused Expression function, which it may also
have in reciting lyrical poetry.
Garvin (1994, p. 64), in discussing Charles Morris’s three branches of semi-
otics – syntactics, semantics, pragmatics – notes:
In Bühler’s ﬁeld theory … variants [of structural linguistic units] can be
interpreted in terms of the ﬁeld-derived properties of the units in question.
In the Morrisian schema, I do not seem to be able to ﬁnd a real place for this
issue … None of this, of course, means that I object to ‘pragmatics’ as a label
of convenience for the discussion of certain of the phenomena that, as I have
repeatedly asserted, Bühler’s ﬁeld theory handles more adequately, I only
object to giving theoretical signiﬁcance as a separate ‘level’ or ‘component’
… the foundation of Bühler’s theory is the … Gestalt-psychological notion
32 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
of the ﬁgure–ground relation. Morris’s foundations, on the other hand, are
admittedly behaviorist … There is no doubt about my preference for the
Gestaltist position … It is interesting to note that many of the linguists who
have arrived at a total rejection of the behaviorist bases of descriptivist
linguistics nevertheless have come to use the Morrisian schema, at least
to the extent of accepting a pragmatics component for explaining certain
phenomena.
In full agreement with Garvin’s dictum, I also follow Bühler’s theory of
language. Building the theory, and the empirical analysis, of language on the
Organon Model can immediately dispense with all the subdivisions of the
ﬁeld of speech science into separate disciplines, phonology versus phonetics,
phonology versus sound stylistics, linguistics versus paralinguistics, prag-
matics versus syntax and semantics, and relate units and structures across all
linguistic levels of analysis to axiomatically postulated functions in speech
communication – functions in the domains of Sender, Receiver and Refer-
ent, such as Question, Command, Request, Information Selection
and Weighting, Intensification. In moving from these functions to the
linguistic signs in their deictic and symbolic ﬁelds, speech science can cap-
ture all the formal phonetic, phonological and linguistic aspects related to
them.
1.3.2 Halliday’s Functional Systemic Linguistics
A few words need to be said about another, more recent functional framework
that is also rooted in the European linguistic tradition, more particularly J. R.
Firth’s enquiry into systems of meaning (Firth 1957): Michael Halliday’s Sys-
temic Functional Linguistics (SFL) (Hasan 2009). It is conceived as systemic
with reference to paradigmatic choices in language, and also as functional with
regard to speciﬁc functions that these formal systems are to serve in com-
munication. These functions are called metafunctions, comprising the idea-
tional function (experiential and logical), the interpersonal function and the
textual function. There are correspondences between Halliday’s and Bühler’s
functions but also fundamental differences. Standing in the European tradi-
tion, Halliday and Hasan know Bühler’s Theory of Language, but they do not
always represent it correctly. Hasan (2009, p. 19) says:
Bühler thought of functions as operating one at a time; further, his functions
were hierarchically ordered, with the referential as the most important. The
metafunctions in SFL are not hierarchised; they have equal status, and each
is manifested in every act of language use: in fact, an important task for
grammatics is to describe how the three metafunctions are woven together
into the same linguistic unit.
From Function to Form 33
The concept of ‘function’, when used in SFL with reference to the system
of language as a whole, is critically different from the concept of ‘function’,
as applied to a speech act such as promising, ordering, etc., or as applied
to isolated utterances à la Bühler (1934) for the classiﬁcation of children’s
utterances as referential, conative or expressive. SFL uses the term
‘metafunction’, to distinguish functions of langue system from the ‘function’
of an utterance.
As regards the ﬁrst quotation, the discussion in this chapter will have made it
clear that Bühler’s three functions in the Organon Model do not operate one
at a time, and they are not hierarchically ordered. His linguistic sign has the
three functions of Expression, Appeal and Representation at any giv-
en moment, but depending on the type of communicative action their relative
weighting changes. In the Theory of Language, he puts particular emphasis
on the representational function, because this is the area linguistics had been
dealing with predominantly during the nineteenth century and up to his
time, and he felt a few principles that were generally applied needed to be
put right.
The second quotation shows the reason for the misunderstanding. The
fundamental difference between the two models is not that Halliday takes a
global view of the system of language and Bühler refers to speech actions
in isolated utterances. The difference is between a descriptive product mod-
el of language in SFL (Bühler’s Sprachwerk), and a communicative process
model of speech actions, which looks at communicative functions between
speakers and listeners in speech interaction (Bühler’s Sprechhandlungen).
It is the difference between the linguist’s versus the psychologist’s view of
speech and language. Halliday asks ‘How does language work?’, whereas
Bühler asks ‘How do speakers and listeners communicate about the world
with linguistic signs in deictic and symbolic ﬁelds?’ The Organon Model is
system-oriented, not restricted to utterances, although the functions surface in
utterance signals. Halliday’s interpersonal function is part of all three Organon
functions: social aspects of the speaker’s expression, of attitudes and appeals
to the listener, and of representation of the factual world. For Bühler, social
relationships determine the communicative interaction between speakers and
listeners about referents, i.e. they shape the three functions of the linguistic
sign. For Halliday and Hasan, the interpersonal metalevel is a function at a
linguistic level, the level of sociolinguistics. The two models are thus com-
plementary perspectives; for a phonetician the process model is particularly
attractive because it allows the modelling of speech communication in human
interaction.
34 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
1.3.3 Discourse Representation Theory
More recent language theories have sprung up from logical semantics incorpo-
rating context dependence into the study of meaning. A prominent represent-
ative of this dynamic semantics is Discourse Representation Theory (DRT),
developed by Kamp and co-workers (Kamp and Reyle 1993) over the past two
decades. Utterances are regarded as interpretable only when the interpreter
takes account of the contexts in which they are made, and the interaction be-
tween context and utterance is considered reciprocal. ‘Each utterance contrib-
utes (via the interpretation which it is given) to the context in which it is made.
It modiﬁes the context into a new context, in which this contribution is reﬂect-
ed; and it is this new context which then informs the interpretation of whatever
utterance comes next’ (p. 4). This has resulted in moving away from the clas-
sical conception of formal semantics and replacing its central concept of truth
by one of information: ‘the meaning of a sentence is not its truth conditions but
its “information change potential” – its capacity for modifying given contexts
or information states into new ones’ (Kamp, Genabith and Reyle 2011, p. 4).
Anaphoric pronouns referring back to something that was introduced previ-
ously in the discourse are the most familiar and certainly the most thoroughly
investigated kind of context dependence within this framework.
At ﬁrst sight, this paradigm looks very similar to Bühler’s, and, as its pro-
ponents and followers would maintain, is far superior because it is formalised,
thus testable, and eminently suited to be applied to the automatic analysis of
appropriately tagged corpora. But closer inspection reveals that the two are
not compatible. DRT talks about utterances in context but means sentences
in textual linguistic environments. However, it is speech actions that occur in
everyday communication, and they occur not only in synsemantic contexts but,
ﬁrst and foremost, in contexts of situation in sympractical ﬁelds. Moreover,
not all actions subserve information transmission, because there is phatic com-
munion (Jakobson 1960; Malinowski 1923), and appeal to the receiver as well
as expression of the sender, where referential meaning is subordinate to social
and emotive interaction. DRT would need new categories and a change of per-
spective, going beyond information structure in texts, to provide explanations
for exchanges by speech and gesture, such as the ones experienced on a Kiel
bus or in a Scottish pub (cf. Introduction and 1.2.1.3). Here is another set of
possible speech actions that illustrate the great communicative variety beyond
information exchange in synsemantic text ﬁelds:
I am about to leave the house to go to work, putting on my coat in the hall. My
wife is in the adjoining open-plan sitting-room. She brieﬂy looks out of the
window and calls to me ‘It’s raining’, with a downstepping level pitch pattern
From Function to Form 35
on ‘raining’ (see 4.1), to draw my attention to the need to take protection
against the weather. I thank her for warning me, grab my umbrella, say ‘See
you tonight’ and leave.
After I have gone, she calls her sister in Edinburgh, and, following their
exchanges of greetings, she goes on to talk about the weather, inevitable in
British conversation, and asks, ‘What’s your weather like?’, not because she
wants to get meteorological information but as an interactional opening. She
gets the answer ‘It’s raining’, with a continuous, low falling pitch pattern
across the utterance, suggesting ‘What else do you expect?’ This is followed
by a reference to the Kiel weather and then by an appraisal that the recent
terrible ﬂooding in the North of England was much worse, so there is really
no reason to complain. After this ritual, the two sisters exchange information
about family and friends for another half hour, the goal of the telephone call.
After coming off the phone, she switches the radio on to get the 11 a.m.
regional news. At the end, the weather forecast reports ‘In Kiel regnet es
heute’ [It is raining in Kiel today]. This is now factual weather information,
located in place and time, intended for an anonymous public, therefore
removed from interaction between communicators, and since the individual
recipient had looked out of the window, the speech action has no informative
impact on her.
Each of these communicative interchanges serves a different, but very useful,
communicative goal, with different values attributed to the information con-
veyed. DRT cannot model this diversity because the differently valued types of
information are not simply the result of an incremental development of mean-
ing evolving in linguistic contexts but depend on talk in interaction between
communicators in contexts of situation. This fact is addressed by Ginzburg
(2012) in the Interactive Stance Model (ISM).
1.3.4 Ginzburg’s Interactive Stance Model
This is a theory of meaning in interaction that, on the one hand, is based on the
DRT notion of dynamic semantics and, on the other, incorporates two concepts
from Conversation Analysis (Schegloff, Jefferson and Sacks 1977) and from
psycholinguistics (Clark 1996): repair and grounding of content in the com-
municators’ common ground through interaction in contexts. Ginzburg deﬁnes
the goal of his semantic theory as ‘to characterize for any utterance type the
contextual update that emerges in the aftermath of successful exchange and
the range of possible clariﬁcation requests otherwise. This is, arguably, the
early twenty-ﬁrst-century analogue of truth conditions’ (Ginzburg 2012, p. 8).
This means that an adequate semantic theory must model imperfect communi-
cation just as much as successful communication. Besides giving meaning to
36 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
indexicals ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘here’, ‘there’, ‘now’ through linguistic context in dy-
namic semantics, non-sentential units, such as ‘yes’, ‘what?’, ‘where?’, ‘why?’
etc., and repeated fragments of preceding utterances must receive their mean-
ings through the interactive stance in contexts of situation. These are ideas that
have been proposed, in a non-formalised way, by Bühler (1934) and Gardiner
(1932), as well as by Firth (1957) and his followers in Britain to this day, e.g.
John Local and Richard Ogden. None of this literature is cited, no doubt be-
cause it is considered outdated and surpassed by more testable and scientiﬁc
models. However, careful study of the ideas of both camps reaches the oppo-
site conclusion.
Ginzburg’s theoretical proposition is that ‘grammar and interaction are in-
trinsically bound’ and that ‘the right way to construe grammar is as a system
that characterizes types of talk in interaction’ (Ginzburg (2012), p. 349). The
pivotal category in this interaction is gameboards, one for each participant,
which make communicators keep track of unresolved issues in questions under
discussion and allow for imperfect communication through mismatches. The
corollary of the notion of the personal gameboard is that participants may not
have equal access to the common ground, and contextual options available to
one may be distinct from those available to the other(s). Ginzburg illustrates
this with a constructed example of dialogue interaction under what he terms
the Turn-Taking Puzzle (p. 23).
a. A: Which members of this audience own a parakeet? Why?
(= Why own a parakeet?)
b. A: Which members of this audience own a parakeet?
B: Why? (= Why are you asking which members of this audience
own a parakeet?)
c. A: Which members of this audience own a parakeet? Why am I
asking this question?
He explains the different meanings accorded to ‘why’ in the three contexts by
referring them to who keeps, or takes over, the turn. ‘The resolution that can
be associated with “Why?” if A keeps the turn is unavailable to B were s/he to
have taken over, and vice versa. c. shows that these facts cannot be reduced to
coherence or plausibility – the resolution unavailable to A in a. yields a coherent
follow-up to A’s initial query if it is expressed by means of a non-elliptic form.’
These constructed dialogues are problematic, because they lack a sufﬁcient-
ly speciﬁed context of situation and violate rules of behavioural interaction be-
yond speech, and their interpretation by reference to turn-taking is ﬂawed. The
reference to ‘members of this audience’ in a book on the Interactive Stance
indicates that the speaker must be contextualised as addressing, and interacting
From Function to Form 37
with, a group attending a talk, not as establishing contact for interaction with
one or several individuals. Thus B, who is an individual that has not been ad-
dressed individually, will not call out from among the audience with non-sen-
tential ‘Why?’ to ask why the speaker addressed the group with that question.
There are three possible reactions from the audience. (1) There is a show of
hands by those members who have a parakeet. (2) There is no gestural or vocal
response, because nobody in the audience has a parakeet. (3) There may be
a call from an obstreperous young attendee, something like ‘What the heck
are you asking that for? Get on with your subject.’ Just as A did not establish
interaction with individual members of the audience, speaker B in (3), in turn,
does not intend to interact with A, but opposes interaction by refusing to an-
swer A’s question.
In response to the reactions, or the lack of a reaction, from the audience, A
may continue with ‘Why am I asking this question?’ (in (2) after pausing for a
couple of seconds). In all these cases, A starts a new turn, after a gestural turn
from the audience in (1), after a speech turn from an individual member in (3)
and after registering absence of a response in (2). A produces an interrogative
form that is no longer a Question because it lacks the Appeal to somebody
else to answer A’s question. It actualises the content of a potential question that
the members of the audience may have asked in (1), and particularly in (2), and
did ask in (3). This is a Question Quote (see 4.2.2.7). Since it is not a Ques-
tion Appeal it cannot be reduced to the bare lexical interrogative, which
presupposes the Appeal function, and it has falling intonation. In German, the
Question Quote would be realised by dependent-clause syntax ‘(Sie mögen
sich fragen) Warum ich diese Frage stelle?’, instead of the interrogative syntax
‘Warum stelle ich diese Frage?’ The latter (as well as its English syntactic
equivalent) has two communicative meanings: (a) A appeals to receivers to
give an answer why they think A asks the question; (b) it is the speaker’s
exclamatory expression ‘Why on earth am I asking this? (It does not get me
anywhere!)’ With meaning (b), the interrogative form does not code a question
either, since A does not appeal reﬂexively to A to give an answer to a propo-
sition A is querying. In traditional terminology it would be called a rhetorical
question, but in terms of communicative function it is a speaker-centred Ex-
pression rather than a listener-directed Appeal. Neither (a) nor (b) seem to
have a behavioural likelihood in the interaction with an audience. Ginzburg’s
sequencing of Information Question and Question Quote in one turn
in c. may therefore be considered an ill-formed representation of behavioural
interaction. Before giving a Question Quote to the audience, A must have
assessed their reaction to the Information Question A put to them.
38 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
There is a third possibility (c) of contextualising the German and English
interrogative forms ‘Warum stelle ich diese Frage?’ and ‘Why am I asking this
question?’ Here is a possible lecture context (let’s assume A is male):
d. A: I would like to raise a question at the outset of my talk: ‘How
many of this audience keep parakeets at home?’ Why am I
asking this question? Well, let me explain. I would like to
share experiences of parakeets’ talking behaviour with you in
the discussion after my talk. So, could I have a show of hands,
please. ‘Which of you have a parakeet?’
This constructed opening of a lecture illustrates the lecturer’s ambivalent
function of reporter to an audience and communicator with an audience. His
main function is to report subject matter. In his role as a reporter, the lecturer
may raise questions in connection with the topic of the talk, appealing to virtu-
al recipients to give answers. In this reporting role, the lecturer does not enter
into interaction with communicators in a real context of situation. He creates
a virtual question–answer ﬁeld in which he enacts interaction between virtual
senders and receivers whom he brings to life through his mouth. He treats the
audience as external observers of the reporter’s question–answer ﬁeld. This is
question–answer phantasma, in an extension of Bühler’s notion of Deixis am
Phantasma (see the Introduction and Bühler 1934, pp. 121ff). The lecturer’s
second function is to enter into an interaction with the audience.
In d., lecturer A is ﬁrst a reporter, then a communicator. A reports two ques-
tions for which virtual receivers are to provide answers in the lecture. The sec-
ond question is immediately answered by the reporter. These questions differ
from the question-in-interaction at the end by being non-interactive. The sec-
ond question can be a virtual Information Question with falling intonation,
where the reporter enacts the sender and, at the same time, the receiver to give
the answer. It may also be a virtual Confirmation Question, with high-ris-
ing intonation starting on ‘why’ (see 4.2.2.4), where the reporter enacts a vir-
tual sender who reﬂects on his reasons for having asked, and a virtual receiver
who is to conﬁrm the reasons in the answer: ‘Why am I asking this question
really?’ Ginzburg’s interactive stance excludes both these questions from his
context c., but he obviously explains c. in the non-interactive way of d. This
problem must have been realised by the reviewer of Ginzburg (2012), Eleni
Gregoromichelaki (2013), because she replaced ‘this audience’ by ‘our team’
in her discussion of Ginzburg’s ‘parakeet’ example, which is now a question
to individual communicators.
Ginzburg’s sequencing of a general ‘who?’ and a more speciﬁc follow-up
‘why?’ Information Question in one turn of a. is also a behaviourally
From Function to Form 39
ill-formed representation. There must be some response to the ﬁrst Informa-
tion Question before the second one is asked in a new turn. Moreover, if the
ﬁrst question is put to an audience, A needs to select an individual B, or several
individuals in succession, for an answer to the second question, because it can
no longer be gestural but must be vocal. There is the possibility of a double
question, ‘Do you own a parakeet and why?’, in the opening turn of an inter-
action with an individual.
Taking all these points together, there is no compelling reason to associate the
attribution of different meanings to non-sentential ‘why?’ with turn-holding or
turn-taking. Ginzburg’s explication of this change of meaning in an interaction,
with reference to different options available to communicators in their respective
turns, is not convincing. He does not provide a sufﬁciently speciﬁed interaction-
al setting, does not distinguish between interactions with a group and with an
individual, and fails to differentiate Question function and interrogative form.
Furthermore, he does not acknowledge the occurrence of gestural beside vocal
turns, nor of two successive turns by the same speaker, only separated by a pause
for the assessment of the interactive point that has been reached. And, last but
not least, he discusses questions as if they are removed from interaction in spite
of their contextualisations. His concept of interaction does not model speech
action in communicative contexts in human behaviour but is derived post festum
from formal relations in written text, or spoken discourse that has been reduced
to writing, or in constructed dialogues dissociated from interaction.
Now let us give Ginzburg’s interaction scenario a more precise deﬁnition
and develop the meanings of the two non-sentential ‘why?’s in it.
[General context of situation
A famous member of the International Phonetic Association (P) is giving
an invited talk to the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland on the subject
‘Talking parakeets’. After the introduction by the host and giving thanks for
the invitation, P opens his talk.]
a. P(1): I suppose quite a few, if not all, of you have a parakeet at home.
P(2): [points to an elderly lady in the front row] What about you,
madam? Do you keep one?
S(1): I do. [may be accompanied, or replaced, by nodding]
Why?
P(3): Why am I asking you this question. Well, let me explain. I am
interested in how owners of parakeets communicate with their
pets.
b. [same precursor as in a., then:]
S(1): I do.
P(3): Why?
S(2): Why? Well, because it keeps me company.
40 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
In a., P(2) asks a Polarity Question (see 4.2.2.2) whether the elderly lady
keeps a parakeet in her home, most probably with a falling intonation because
the speaker prejudges the answer ‘yes’. S(1) answers in the afﬁrmative and
asks an Information Question (see 4.2.2.3), appealing to P to tell her why
he asked her. To establish rapport with P, S will use low-rising intonation in
both her Statement and her Question. P(3) quotes the content of S’s ques-
tion (see 4.2.2.6), putting it in interrogative form to himself, as a theme for his
rheme explanation of his original Polarity Question. Since the utterance is
a factual report, lacking an appeal, the intonation falls. (In German it would
be ‘Warum ich Ihnen diese Frage stelle’, again with falling intonation.) In b.,
P’s Polarity Question is answered in the afﬁrmative by S, as in a. This is
followed by P asking a follow-up Information Question about the lady’s
reasons for keeping a parakeet. The intonation may fall or rise, depending on
whether P simply asks a factual question or, additionally, establishes rapport
with S. This is, in turn, followed by S’s Confirmation Question ‘Are you
asking me why?’, with high-rising intonation on the lexical interrogative (see
4.2.2.4), in turn followed by her answer.
These examples illustrate communicative steps in a question–answer inter-
action ﬁeld, made up of declarative and interrogative syntactic structures with
varying intonation patterns as carriers of Statements and different types of
Question. Different functionally deﬁned question types are bound to the se-
mantic points reached at each step in the interaction and are not exchangeable
without changing the semantic context. The crucial issue is that an interroga-
tive form does not receive different meanings in different contexts of situation
in interaction, as Ginzburg maintains. Rather, the transmission of meaning at
different points in interaction necessitates functionally different Questions,
which may be manifested by identical interrogative structure. This is the func-
tion-form approach proposed in this monograph, which also incorporates an
important prosodic component to differentiate between lexically and syntacti-
cally identical utterances. Ginzburg’s semantic modelling takes an infelicitous
turn in three steps:
• He does not recognise question function beside interrogative form.
• He is forced to locate semantic differentiators in interaction contexts
when syntactically identical interrogatives (disregarding utterance
prosody), such as ‘why’, occur with different meanings, and he then
incorporates the contexts into the grammar.
• He ﬁnally refers the semantic differences of these utterances to their
turn-holding or turn-taking positions in dialogue.
From Function to Form 41
The reason Ginzburg tries to resolve the semantic indeterminacy of formal
grammar by incorporating context of interaction in it lies in the development
of semantics in linguistic theory. The formal component of American Structur-
alism, as systematised by Zellig Harris (1951, 1960), became the morphosyn-
tactic core of his pupil Noam Chomsky’s Generative Grammar (1957, 1965),
with a semantic and a phonological interpretive level attached at either end of
the generative rule system. Within this generative framework, semantics grad-
ually assumed an independent status, which culminated in DRT. With growing
interest in spontaneous speech, the meaning of interaction elements that go
beyond linguistic context variables had to be taken into account. This led to the
inclusion of situational context in formal grammar, which became Ginzburg’s
research goal. It continues the preoccupation with form since the days of struc-
turalism, now with an ever-increasing concern for meaning.
1.3.5 Developing a Model of Speech Communication
To really become an advanced semantic theory of the twenty-ﬁrst century,
the relationship between grammar and interaction would need to be reversed,
with a form-in-function approach replacing interaction-in-grammar by
grammar-in-interaction. Empirical research within a theory of speech com-
munication can offer greater insight into the use of speech and language than
systematising linguistic forms in discourse contexts with grammar-based for-
malisms. It is a task for the social sciences, including linguistics, to develop
a comprehensive Theory of Human Interaction, which contains a sub-theory
of Speech Communication, which in turn contains a Grammar of Human Lan-
guage and Grammars of Languages. Herbert Clark has taken a big step towards
this goal by advocating that:
We must take … an action approach to language use, which has distinct
advantages over the more traditional product approach … Language use arises
in joint activities … you take the joint activity to be primary, and the language
… used along the way to be secondary, a means to an end. To account for
the language used, we need to understand the joint activities [for which a
framework of interactional categories is proposed]. (Clark 1996, p. 29)
Inﬂuenced by the Language Philosophers Grice (1957), Austin (1962) and
Searle (1969), he expanded their theory of meaning in action, speech acts,
to a theory of meaning in joint activities and joint actions, which accords the
listener an equally important role, beside the speaker, in establishing commu-
nicative meaning: ‘There can be no communication without listeners taking
actions too – without them understanding what speakers mean’ (Clark 1996,
p. 138). However, Clark is ﬁrst and foremost concerned with languageu, the
42 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
‘language’ of language use, which he contrasts with languages, the traditional
conceptualisation of ‘language’ as language structure (p. 392). What we need
is the incorporation of languages into the theory of speech communication,
including the AAA and GOV channels, and a powerful model of ﬁne-graded
prosodic systems and structures to signal communicative functions in
languageu.
Since speech and language are anchored in the wider ﬁeld of human inter-
action, a communicative approach is the basis of a successful interdisciplinary
linguistic science. The seminal thoughts that the psychologist Karl Bühler pub-
lished on this topic eighty years ago are in no way outdated and inferior to
more recent attempts at formalising interaction contexts in grammar. On the
contrary, the product approaches of SFL, DRT and ISM, in the tradition of
structural linguistics, deal with the formal results of interaction and lose sight
of the functions controlling interaction processes, a distinction Bühler captured
with Sprachwerk [language work] versus Sprechhandlung [speech action].
Since Bühler’s theory is little known in the linguistic world, especially among
an Anglophone readership, this chapter has given an overview of its main com-
ponents, to bring them back into the arena of theoretical discussion in formal
linguistics and measurement-driven phonetics. I shall pick up Bühler’s threads
in the following chapters to weave a tapestry of speech communication, and
elaborate Bühler’s model to a function network in human speech interaction
to which communicative form across AAA and GVO channels will be relat-
ed. More particularly, I shall provide subcategorisations of the functions of
Representation, Appeal and Expression in Chapters 3, 4 and 5, and inte-
grate prosody, the prime formal exponent of Appeal and Expression, into the
functional framework of the Organon Model. In adding the prosodic level to
the analysis of speech interaction, which is largely missing from the formalised
context-in-grammar accounts of DRT and ISM, I shall be relying on insights
from extensive research on communicative phonetics carried out at Kiel Uni-
versity over the past thirty years.
The communicative model starts from speech functions and integrates with
them the production and perception of paradigmatic systems and syntagmatic
structures in morpho-syntax, sounds and prosodies. Thus, the functional cat-
egories of Statement or Question or Command/Request are separated
conceptually and notationally from the syntactic structures of declarative or
interrogative or imperative, with distinctive prosodic patterns coding fur-
ther functional subcategorisations. In German and English, various syntac-
tic structures can be used, with different connotations, of course, to code
a Command or a Request:
From Function to Form 43
imperative
with falling intonation for a Command or rising intonation for a Request
Mach (bitte) das Fenster zu! Shut the window (please)!
interrogative
with falling intonation and reinforced accents for a Command
Machst du endlich das Fenster zu! Are you going to shut the window!
with rising intonation and default accents for a Request
Würdest du bitte das Fenster
zumachen!
Would you like to shut the window!
declarative
with falling intonation and reinforced accentuation for a Command
Du hast die Tür offen gelassen! You have left the door open!
Du hast vergessen, die Tür
zuzumachen!
You forgot to shut the door!
Du machst jetzt das Fenster zu! You are going to shut the window
at once!
Or a Question
interrogative
for a Polarity Question
Ist er nach Rom gefahren? Has he gone to Rome?
declarative
with rising intonation or in high register for a Confirmation Question
Er ist nach Rom gefahren? He’s gone to Rome?
Furthermore, within Statement or Question or Command/Request,
functional relations between semantic constituents are manifested by syntactic
structures between formal elements. Both are enclosed in < >, the former in
small capitals, the latter in italics (for some of the notional terminology, see
Lyons 1968, pp. 340ff):
In the active versus passive constructions of Indo-European languages,
<Agent> is coded by <subject> and <prepositional phrase>, <Goal> by
<object> and <subject>, respectively.
<ACTION/OCCURRENCE> <AGENT> <GOAL> <RECIPIENT> <TIME> <PLACE> <MANNER>
<verb> <subject> <direct object> <indirect object> <adverbial or prepositional phrases>
<AGENT subject > <ACTION verb> <GOAL dir object>
<Die Nachbarn> <verprügelten> <den Einbrecher>.
<The neighbours> <beat up> <the burglar>.
<GOAL subject> <ACTION verb infl> <AGENT prepos phrase> <ACTION verb uninfl>
<Der Einbrecher> <wurde> <von den Nachbarn> <verprügelt>.
<The burglar> <was beaten up> <by the neighbours>.
44 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
The <Action>, coded by the unitary <verb> ‘verprügelten’ or ‘beat up’,
may be divided into the semantic dyad <Action> <Goal> coded by the
<verb> <direct object> phrase ‘verpassten eine gehörige Tracht Prügel’ or
‘gave a good beating’, making ‘Einbrecher’ or ‘burglar’ the <Recipient indi-
rect object > of <Action> <Goal>. Active can again be turned into passive.
Finally, the passive patient construction may be lexical:
Another type of proposition centres on an <Event>, for instance meteoro-
logical events:
<Event> <Time>/<Place> <Place>/<TIME>
<Es regnet/schneit> <heute> <in Paris>.
<It’s raining/snowing> <in Paris> <today>.
In these cases, both the event and its occurrence are coded syntactically
by the impersonal verb construction. But, more generally, the two semantic
components are separated in syntactic structure, for instance as <subject> and
<verb>, and German and English may go different ways, for example in:
Zur Zeit ist über Paris ein Unwetter.
<Event Occurrence>
<Es stürmt, hagelt, blitzt und donnert>
There is a heavy thunderstorm over Paris right now.
<Occurrence > <Event>
<There are> <gale-force winds, hail, thunder and lightning>
Before I move on, let me add a word of clariﬁcation concerning the dif-
ference, and the relationship, between communicative theory and linguistic
discovery procedures. It is a well-established, very useful goal in linguistics to
<AGENT subjext> <ACTION verb> <RECIPIENT indir object> <GOAL dir object>
<Die Nachbarn> <verpassten> <dem Einbrecher> <eine Tracht Prügel>.
<The neighbours> <gave> <the burglar> <a good beating>.
<RECIPIENT indir object> <ACTION verb infl> <AGENT prepos phrase>
<Dem Einbrecher> <wurde> <von den Nachbarn>
<GOAL subject> <ACTION verb uninfl>
<eine Tracht Prügel> <verpasst>.
<RECIPIENT subject> <ACTION verb> <GOAL object> <AGENT prepos phrase>
<The burglar> <was given> <a good beating> <by the neighbours>.
<RECIPIENT subject ><ACTION verb><AGENT prepos phrase> <GOAL object>
<Der Einbrecher> <erhielt> <von den Nachbarn> <eine Tracht Prügel>
<RECIPIENT subject> <ACTION verb><GOAL object> <AGENT prepos phrase>
<The burglar> <got> <a good beating> <from the neighbours>.
From Function to Form 45
work out the systems and structures of distinctive phonetic sound units that are
used to distinguish words in a language, including lexical tone, lexical stress
and phonation type in tone, lexical stress and lexical voice quality languages. It
is mandatory to base this investigation on the word removed from communica-
tive context in interaction. There is an equally established and useful procedure
to work out the morpho-syntactic elements and structures, as well as the accent
and intonation patterns that carry distinctive sentential meaning. This puts the
sentence removed from communicative context in focus. In the initial analysis
stages of an unknown, hitherto uninvestigated language, these phonological
and syntactic discovery procedures produce context-free word and sentence
representations, which will have to be adjusted as the investigation continues
and more and more context is introduced in a series of procedural steps. But it
will not be possible to base the phonetic or syntactic analysis on talk in inter-
action for a long time yet. The procedural product approach makes it possible
to reduce a language to writing, and to compile grammars, as well as diction-
aries, that link graphemic, phonetic and semantic information for speakers and
learners of the language to consult for text writing and speaking. The product
approach to language forms also provides useful procedural tools for language
and dialect comparison, dialect geography, language typology and historical
linguistics.
But the situation changes when languages have been investigated for a very
long time, such as English, German, French, Spanish, Arabic, Hindi, Japanese
and Mandarin Chinese. When sound representations of words and structural
representations of words in sentences have been put in systematic descriptive
linguistic formats in such languages, linguistic pursuits may proceed in two
different ways.
(1) The formal representations may acquire a purpose in themselves and
assume the status of the ‘real’ thing they are supposed to map. Then
proponents of another linguistic paradigm may recycle the same data
in a different format of their own, suggesting that it increases the ex-
planatory power for the ‘real’ thing. So, we experience recycling of
the same data from Structural Linguistics to Generative Grammar to
Government and Binding, to Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar
to Role and Representation Grammar, and so on. An example from
phonology is the treatment of Turkish vowel harmony in the frame-
works of structural phonemics, generative phonology and Firthian
prosodic analysis (Lees 1961; Voegelin and Ellinghausen 1943; Wat-
erson 1956). The contribution of such l’art pour l’art linguistics to
46 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
the understanding of speech communication in human interaction is
limited.
(2) On the other hand, it may be considered timely to renew theoreti-
cal reﬂection on how speakers and listeners interact with each oth-
er, using language beside other communicative means in contexts of
situation. The forms obtained through a linguistic product approach
will now be studied as manifestations of communicative functions in
interactive language use. SFL, DRT and ISM are no longer discov-
ery procedures, but theoretical models. They stop short, however, of
reaching the dynamic level of speech interaction because they are still
product-oriented and incorporate interaction context statically into
structural representation.
Future research will beneﬁt from advancing models of speech communica-
tion in interaction for at least some of the well-studied languages of the world.
This monograph is an attempt in this direction, focusing primarily on German
and English, but additionally including other languages in the discussion of se-
lected communicative aspects. The results of this action approach can, in turn,
be fed back into the product approach of language description and comparison.
For example, in traditional language descriptions interrogative structures are
compared between languages with regard to some vague ‘question’ concept.
In the action approach, different types of question are postulated as different
Appeal functions in human interaction, and the interrogative forms found in
different languages are related to these functions. This will have a great effect
on making language teaching and language learning, based on linguistic de-
scriptions of languages, more efﬁcient.
Since, in addition to the syntactic structures, prosody is another central for-
mal device in this functional framework, a prosodic model needs to be selected
that guarantees observational and explanatory adequacy for the communicative
perspective. This goal can best be achieved when the choice follows from a crit-
ical comparative overview of the most inﬂuential descriptive paradigms that
have been proposed in the past. Therefore, the remaining section of this chap-
ter provides such an historical survey to prepare the exposition, in Chapter 2,
of the prosodic model adopted for integration in the Organon Model.
1.4 Descriptive Modelling of Prosody – An Overview of Paradigms
The study of prosody has concentrated on intonation and, with few exceptions,
such as Bolinger’s work (1978, 1986), has focused on the formal elements
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 47
and structures of auditory pitch of acoustic F0 patterns. Questions of meaning
and the function of these patterns were raised post hoc, above all in relation
to syntactic structures, sentence mode, phrasing and focus. Two inﬂuential
paradigms in the study of prosody, the British and the American approach,
are brieﬂy discussed here, as a basis for the exposition of the Kiel Intonation
Model (KIM), the former because KIM is an offspring of it, the latter in or-
der to show and explain the divergence of KIM from present-day mainstream
prosody research. Examples will, in each case, be presented in original nota-
tions, as well as in KIM/PROLAB symbolisations (cf. the list at the end of the
Introduction), for cross-reference.
1.4.1 The Study of Intonation in the London School of Phonetics
Descriptions of intonation by the London School of Phonetics (Allen 1954;
Armstrong and Ward 1931; Cruttenden 1974, 1986 (2nd edn 1997); Jones
1956; Kingdon 1958; Lee 1956; O’Connor and Arnold 1961; Palmer 1924;
Palmer and Blandford 1939; Schubiger 1958; Wells 2006) relied on auditory
observation and introspection for practical application in teaching English as
a foreign language. Armstrong and Ward (1931) and Jones (1956) set up two
basic tunes for English, imposed on stress patterns and represented by dots and
dashes and curves: Tune I falling, associated with statements, commands and
wh questions, Tune II rising, associated with requests and word-order ques-
tions. Modiﬁcations of these generate falling-rising and rising-falling, as well
as pitch-expanded and compressed, patterns, signalling emphasis for contrast
and intensity.
Palmer, Kingdon, and O’Connor and Arnold elaborated this basic two-tune
concept by differentiating tunes according to falling, low-rising, high-rising,
falling-rising and rising-falling patterns. Palmer introduced tonetic marks in
orthographic text to represent the signiﬁcant points of a tune, rather than mark-
ing every syllable. This was a move towards a phonological assessment of
prosodic substance. The tune was also divided into syntagmatic constituents.
O’Connor and Arnold’s practical introduction became the standard textbook
of Standard Southern British English intonation, proposing a division of tunes,
now called tone groups, ﬁrst into nucleus and prenucleus, then into nuclear
tune and tail, and into head and prehead, respectively. These structural parts,
with their paradigmatic elements, are combined into ten Tone Groups, ﬁve
with falling, ﬁve with rising tunes at the nucleus. The intonation patterns are,
in turn, related to four grammatical structures – statements, questions, com-
mands and interjections. These are formal syntactic structures: declarative syn-
tax, lexical interrogative (called special questions), word-order interrogative
48 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
syntax (called general questions), imperative syntax and interjectional ellipsis.
High-rising nuclear tunes in declarative syntax (‘You like him?’) are discussed
under the formal heading of statements, though referred to as ‘questions’ in
a functional sense. Similarly, low-falling nuclear tunes in word-order ques-
tion syntax (‘Will you be quiet!’, ‘Stand still, will you!’, with a high head, or
‘Aren’t you lucky!’, with a low head) are discussed under the formal category
of ‘general questions’, though referred to as ‘commands’ or ‘exclamations’ in
a functional sense. This highlights the formal point of departure of intonation
analysis. However, the formal description is followed by a discussion of ﬁne
shades of meaning carried by the ten tone groups in their four syntactic envi-
ronments. This discussion is couched in descriptive ordinary-language word
labels (e.g. ‘Tone Group 2 is used to give a categorical, considered, weighty,
judicial, dispassionate character to statements’), not in terms of a semantic the-
ory of speech functions. The result is a mix of the formal elements and struc-
tures of intonation and syntax in English with ad hoc semantic interpretations.
The descriptive semantic additions include attitudinal and expressive meaning
over and above the meaning of syntax-dependent sentence modes, i.e. they are
treated inside linguistics, not relegated to paralinguistics.
The phoneticians of the London School were excellent observers, with well-
trained analytic ears. Although they did not have the concept of alignment of
pitch accents with stressed syllables, and did not separate edge tones from
pitch accents, central premisses in AM Phonology, they described the auditory
differences in minute, accurate detail. What AM Phonology later categorised
as H+L*, H* or L+H*, L*+H pitch accents, combined with L-L% edge tones,
are separate unitary pitch contours in the taxonomic system of the London
School: low fall, high fall, rise-fall. AM/ToBI H* and L+H*/L*+H, combined
with L-H%, are fall-rise and rise-fall-rise. Ladd (1996, p. 44f, 122f, 291 n.6,
132ff) accepts this contour approach as observationally adequate but does not
consider it descriptively adequate, because it does not separate edge tones
from pitch accents and does not associate the latter with stresses in various
alignments.
In Ladd’s view, a lack of insight into prosodic structures is most obvious in
the way the London School phoneticians treat (rise-)fall-rises in British Eng-
lish. He argues that a rise-fall-rise pattern is compressed into a monosyllabic
utterance, but is not spread out across syllables following a stressed syllable.
In this case, the fall occurs on the nuclear syllable, the rise at the end of the
utterance, with syllables on low pitch in between. To illustrate this he gives
the example:
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 49
i. A: I hear Sue’s taking a course to become a driving instructor.
(a) B: Sue!? [L*HL-H%].
PROLAB: 2(Sue &., &PG
A [L*+H] driving instructor [L-H%]!?
PROLAB: A 2(driving instructor &., &PG
The low tone of the combined pitch accent L*+H is associated with the stressed
syllable of ‘driving’, the trailing high tone with this stressed and the following
unstressed syllable. The low tone of the phrase accent L- is associated with the
second syllable of ‘driving’ and the ﬁrst two syllables of ‘instructor’, creating
a long low stretch, and the high tone of the boundary tone H% is linked to
the ﬁnal syllable. This shows, according to Ladd, that the edge tones L-H%
must be separated from the pitch accent in both cases, although they form
an observable complex pitch contour on the monosyllable. The analysis with
AM categories and ToBI symbols leaves out an important aspect of the ac-
tual realisation, which can be derived from this phonological representation
in combination with the impressionistic pitch curve that Ladd provides. The
ﬁnal-syllable pitch rise after a stretch of low pitch gives the stressed syllable of
‘instructor’ extra prominence, partially accenting the word. The pitch pattern
is thus turned into a rise-fall on main-accent ‘driving’, followed by a rise on
partially accented ‘instructor’.
i. (b) B: PROLAB: A 2(dr'iving &2. &1[instr'uctor &, &PG
This is no longer the same pattern as the rise-fall-rise on the monosyllabic ut-
terance, and would not convey the same intended meaning. Therefore, Ladd’s
line of argument is no proof of a need to separate edge tones from pitch accents
in intonational phonology.
The structurally adequate systematisation of rise-fall-rise intonations in
English becomes a problem in Ladd’s analysis, rather than in that of the Eng-
lish phoneticians, because, in the wake of AM Phonology, Ladd does not dis-
tinguish between unitary fall-rise and sequential fall+rise intonation patterns,
which were separated as meaningful contrasts by the London School, especial-
ly by Sharp (1958). Prosodically the two patterns differ in the pitch end points
of the fall and of the following rise, being lower for both in the sequence F+R
than for the unitary FR, and they also differ in rhythmic prominence on the
rise of F+R, as against FR, resulting in a partial accent on the word containing
the rise. If the partial accent is put on a function word it naturally has a strong
form, whereas in FR a weaker form occurs. This is an additional manifestation
of greater prominence in the rise of F+R. Sharp provides an extensive list of
50 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
examples for both patterns, predominantly in statements and requests, a few in
information and polarity questions, and some miscellaneous cases. He is less
sure about the occurrence of FR in questions, but maintains, against Lee (1956,
p. 70) and Palmer (1924, p. 82), who mention its absence from this sentence
mode, that it does occur, but less frequently than in the other modes. It seems
to be perfectly clear, however, ‘that in both “yes-no” questions and “special”
questions at least one focus for the patterns is quite common: the ﬁrst word [of
the question]. FR, in these circumstances, asks for conﬁrmation or repetition,
F+R pleads for an answer (or for action)’ (Sharp 1958, p. 143). Sharp does not
give any examples ‘for these circumstances’, but from the general functional
description he has given for FR and F+T in questions, the following typical
instances may be constructed:
ii. (a) [FR] What did you say?
‘I did not catch that, please repeat.’
PROLAB: &2^What did you say &., &PG
The fall before the rise adds insistence to the request for repetition,
which is absent in a simple rise starting on ‘what’:
PROLAB: &2]What did you say &, &PG
(b) [F] What did you [R] say?
‘Give me the content of what you said (when he asked you).’
PROLAB: &2^What did you &2. &1]say &, &PG
(c) But a full accent on the rise is more likely:
‘Tell me what you said (when he asked you).’
PROLAB: &2^What did you &2. &2[say &, &PG
The fall before the rise in (b) and (c) adds insistence to the request for
information, which is absent when the rise on ‘say’ is preceded by a
high, instead of a falling, prenucleus:
PROLAB: &2^What did you &0. &2] say &, &PG
iii. (a) [FR] Are you going to tell him?
‘He needs to be told, please conﬁrm.’
PROLAB: &2^Are you going to tell him &., &PG
The fall before the rise adds insistence to the request for
conﬁrmation, which is absent in a simple rise starting on ‘are’:
PROLAB: &2]Are you going to tell him &, &PG
(b) [F] Are you going to [R] tell him?
‘Inform me whether you will tell him.’
PROLAB: &2^Are you going to &2. &1]tell him &, &PG
(c) But a full accent on the rise is more likely:
PROLAB: &2^Are you going to &2. &2[tell him &, &PG
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 51
The fall before the rise in (b) and (c) adds insistence to the request for
information, which is absent when the rise on ‘tell’ is preceded by a
high, instead of a falling, prenucleus:
PROLAB: &2^Are you going to &0. &2]tell him &, &PG
In examples (ii.a) and (iii.a), the peak of FR has medial alignment with the
accented syllable, AM H*, PROLAB &2^. In (ii.b) and (iii.b), a partial accent
is possible for the rise of F+R on ‘say’ or ‘tell him’, but the full accent in (c)
conveys the given meaning more clearly. The increased prominence that sig-
nals it is produced by the F0 onset of the rise in the accented syllable being
critically below the end point of the preceding fall. This difference between a
partially and a fully accented rise in F+R cannot be represented in the London
School framework because accent is not a separate category from intonation
and rhythmic structure. The examples in (ii.) and (iii.) have been constructed
on the basis of Sharp’s description. There are one or two examples in his list of
the FR and F+R distinction in initial focus position of questions, but they are
different from the ones in (ii.) and (iii.); they represent his standard patterns of
medial-to-late FR alignment and F+R accentuation.
iv. (a) [FR] What’s his name?
a ‘I have forgotten.’ b ‘I am incredulous.’
PROLAB: &2^-(What’s his name &., &PG
(b) [F] What shall I [R] tell him?
‘I really cannot think of anything.’
PROLAB: &2^What shall I &2. &1]tell him &, &PG
Accent &2[is possible as well when ‘tell’ is given a second major
information point.
v. [F] Are you [R] coming?
‘Do tell me whether you are coming.’ ‘Must I wait here for ever?’
(Despair)
PROLAB: &2^Are you &2. &1]coming &, &PG
Sharp did not distinguish clearly between two different alignments of FR.
Except for the cases illustrated in (ii.) and (iii.), his examples refer to medi-
al-to-late alignment of FR with the accented syllable. His FR data also ap-
pear to be all of the non-intensiﬁed type of (rise-)fall-rise, and therefore do
not correspond to the AM category L*+HL-H% in Ladd’s emphatic example,
but to (L+)H*L-H% (PROLAB: &2^…&., versus &2^-(…&.,). The general
meanings of F+R and FR may be given as ‘associative’ versus ‘dissociative’
reference to alternatives in preceding speech actions. Here are two sets of
examples:
52 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
vi. A: Look, there’s Peter.
B: I’ve seen him.
(a) [aɪv FR siːn ɪm] ‘I saw him before you even pointed him out.’
PROLAB: [aɪv &2^-(siːn ɪm &., &PG]
(b) [aɪv F siːn R hɪm] ‘I have spotted the person you are pointing to.’
PROLAB: [aɪv &2^si˸n &2. &1]hɪm &, &PG]
(c) [aɪv FR siːn R hɪm] ‘I saw the person you are pointing to without
you mentioning it.’
PROLAB: [aɪv 2^-(siːn &., &1]hɪm &, &PG]
In FR of (a) ‘him’ has its weak form, in F+R of (b) its strong form. (c) shows
that an FR on ‘seen’ may be followed by a simple rise on ‘him’ [hɪm] (again in
its strong form, as in (b)), giving it more prominence, and partially accenting
and foregrounding it. This rules out an association of the rise of the (rise-)fall-
rise with an edge tone and is therefore outside the scope of AM Phonology.
There are further possibilities:
vi. (d) [aɪv F siːn ɪm], ‘reporting the fact that I have seen him’
PROLAB: [aɪv &2^siːn ɪm &2. &PG]
(e) [aɪv F siːn hɪm]
with partial accent on ‘him’, like (d) but foregrounding ‘him’.
PROLAB: [aɪv &2^siːn &2. &1)hɪm &2. &PG]
(d) and (e) differ from (a) and (c) by only reporting speaker-oriented
facts, whereas the latter involve the dialogue partner.
vii. A: You chaired the appointment committee for the chair of phonetics.
The committee decided to take the applicant from down-under. Was
it a good choice?
B: I [F] thought [R] so. ‘That was my opinion and it still is.’
PROLAB: I &2^thought &2. &1]so &, &PG
I [FR] thought so. ‘That was my opinion at the time, but I have
changed my mind.’
PROLAB: I &2^-(thought so &., &PG
These data, analysed with observational as well as descriptive adequacy
in the London School of Phonetics, cannot be handled in the AM Phonolo-
gy framework, precisely because it links the rise to edge tones. Intermediate
phrase boundaries cannot be introduced to solve the problem because there are
no phonetic grounds for them. This had already been pointed out with refer-
ence to German data in Kohler (2006b, pp. 127ff), cf. 2.7. In addition to pitch
accent L*+H, followed by the edge tones L-H%, Ladd (1996, p. 122) discusses
some examples in British English for which he postulates pitch accent H*:
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 53
viii. (a1) Could I [H*] have the [H*] bill please [L-H%]?
PROLAB: Could I &2^have the &0. &2^bill please &., &PG
(b1) Is your [H*] mother there [L-H%]?
PROLAB: Is your &2^mother there &., &PG
They sound ‘condescending or peremptory’ to speakers of North American English,
where a high-rising nucleus + edge tones, H*H-H%, would be used instead:
viii. (a2) Could I [H*] have the [H*] bill please [H-H%,]?
PROLAB: Could I &2^have the &1. &2]bill please &? &PG
(b2) Is your [H*] mother there [H-H%]?
PROLAB: Is your &2]mother there &? &PG
The reference to Halliday’s broken Tone 2 in viii. (p. 291 n.6) makes it clear
that Ladd is referring to a fall (not a rise-fall) on the accent of ‘bill’ or ‘mother’,
followed by a rise on unaccented ‘please’ or ‘there’ in word-order questions.
The pattern is a unitary fall-rise, making an associative reference to preceding
actions of the type ‘I’ve been served, I’ve eaten, I want to pay now’ in (a), and
‘I would like to speak to your mother. Is she in?’ in (b). In both cases the rise
establishes contact with the person spoken to; a simple fall would lack this and
sound abrupt.
These examples could, of course, also be spoken with a unitary rise-fall-
rise, and would then make dissociative references, (a) ‘Waiter, I’ve been trying
to catch your attention but you are constantly dealing with other customers, I
am in a hurry’ (b) ‘Sorry, it’s not you I have come to see, but your mother.’
And in (a), ‘please’ may get extra prominence, giving it a secondary accent,
in a separate rise after a fall or a fall-rise, creating F+R or FR+R and adding
insistence to the request.
viii. (a3) PROLAB: Could I &2^have the &1. &2^-(bill please &., &PG
(a4) PROLAB: Could I &2^have the &1. &2^bill &2. &1]please &,
&PG
(a5) PROLAB: Could I &2^have the &1. &2^-(bill &., &1]please &,
&PG
(b3) PROLAB: Is your &2^-(mother there &., &PG
Parallel to the British English example (viii.b1) ‘Is your mother there?’,
Ladd (1996, p. 122) discusses the German equivalent in the AM Phonology
framework:
ix. (a1) Ist deine [H*] Mutter da [L-H%]?
probably based on an exponency classiﬁable as
Ist deine [FR] Mutter da?
54 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
and as PROLAB: Ist deine &2^Mutter da &., &PG
But there are other possible realisations.
(b1) Ist deine [F] Mutter [R]da?
PROLAB: Ist deine &2^Mutter &2. &1]da &, &PG
partially foregrounding ‘being present’ as a minor information
point beside the main information point ‘your mother’
(a2) PROLAB: Ist deine &2^-(Mutter da &., &PG
(b2) PROLAB: Ist deine &2^-(Mutter &,. &1]da &, &PG
The functional interpretations of these patterns are the same as in the
English equivalents.
1.4.2 Halliday’s Intonational Phonology
Halliday followed the tradition of the London School of Phonetics, but he in-
corporated the phonetic analysis of intonation in a phonological framework
within his categories of a theory of grammar (Halliday 1961). In two com-
plementary papers (1963a,b), which were republished in adapted and more
widely distributed book form in 1967, he described intonation as a complex of
three phonological systemic variables, tonality, tonicity and tone, interrelated
with a fourth variable, rhythm. Tonality refers to the division of speech events
into melodic units, tone groups. The tone group enters into a hierarchy of four
phonological units together with, in descending order, the rhythmic foot, the
syllable and the phoneme, each element of a higher-order unit consisting of
one or more elements of the unit immediately below, without residue. The
rhythmic feet in a tone group form a syntagmatic structure of an obligatory
tonic preceded by an optional pretonic, each consisting of one or more feet.
This structure is determined by the tonicity variable, which marks one foot in
the foot sequence of a tone group as the tonic foot, by selecting one of a sys-
tem of ﬁve tonal contrasts, the tones 1 fall, 2 high rise, 3 low rise, 4 fall-rise,
5 rise-fall. Feet following the tonic foot in the tonic of a tone group generally
follow the pitch course set by the tone of the tonic. Besides these single tonics
there are the double tonics 13 and 53, uniting tone 1 or 5 with tone 3 in two
successive tonic feet of the tonic section of one tone group. They form major
and minor information points and correspond to F+R versus FR in tone 4.
Tied to the tone selection at the tonic there are further tone selections at
the pretonic. At both elements of tone group structure, a principle of delicacy
determines ﬁner speciﬁcations, such as different extensions of the fall in tone 1
(1+ high, 1 mid, 1- low), different high-rising patterns for tone 2 (2 simple rise,
2 rise preceded by high fall: broken tone 2), and different extensions of the fall
in tone 4 (4 mid fall-rise, 4 low fall-rise). Each rhythmic foot has a syntagmatic
structure of obligatory ictus, followed by optional remiss; the former is ﬁlled
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 55
by a strong syllable, the latter by one or more weak syllables. Halliday follows
Abercrombie (1964) in assuming stress-timed isochronicity for English, and
that the ictus may be silent (‘silent stress’) ‘if the foot follows a pause or has
initial position in the tone group’ (Halliday 1963a, p. 6).
Halliday integrates his intonational phonology into the grammar of spoken
English, where the intonational systems operate side by side with non-into-
national ones in morphology and syntax, at many different places in the cod-
ing of meaningful grammatical contrasts. In the 1963a paper, he looked from
phonological contrasts to distinctive grammatical sets, asking ‘What are the
resources of intonation that expound grammatical meaning?’, whereas in the
1963b paper, he looked at the phonological contrasts from the grammatical
end, asking ‘What are the grammatical systems that are expounded by intona-
tion?’ With this approach, Halliday took a step towards a functional view of
phonological and grammatical form, which he has been concerned with ever
since in the development of a coherent framework of Systemic Functional
Linguistics (SFL).
Pheby (1975) and Kohler (1977 (1st edn)) applied Halliday’s framework
to German. They were an advance on von Essen (1964), who delimited three
basic pitch patterns with reference to vaguely deﬁned functional terms –
terminal, continuative, interrogative intonation – and was then forced to state
that yes-no questions have rising intonation, question-word questions and
statements terminal intonation, and syntactically unﬁnished sentences continu-
ation rises. This analysis, quite apart from being superﬁcial and incomplete,
mixed up the formal and functional levels of intonation right from the start,
which the British colleagues and Kohler (1977, 1995, 2004, 2013b) did not;
they knew, and said so, that both question forms can have either terminal or
rising pitch with ﬁner shades of meaning.
The more recent publication by Halliday and Greaves (2008) expounds the
Hallidayan intonation framework in greater detail and reﬂects its integration
with grammar in the very title. Whereas the earlier publications described the
intonation of Standard Southern British English (RP), the later one includes
Australian and Canadian English, thus taking ‘English’ in a more global sense,
and it illustrates the descriptions with Praat graphics in the text and with sound
ﬁles of isolated but grammatically contextualised utterances, as well as of dia-
logues, on an accompanying CDROM. Meaning as carried by intonation is
now related to three of Halliday’s four metafunctions: the interpersonal, the
textual and the logical. The systems of tonality and tonicity are linked to tex-
tual meanings, the systems of tone to interpersonal meanings. The phonolog-
ical rank scale is paralleled by a grammatical rank scale of sentence, clause,
56 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
group/phrase, word, morpheme, linking to experiential, interpersonal and tex-
tual meanings. Setting up separate systems for intonation and grammatical
structure is a good principle because it avoids the conﬂation of falling or rising
tonal movement with declarative and two types of interrogative structure, as
has been quite common. But cutting across this grammatical rank scale is the
information unit, which is not independently deﬁned, and seems to be in a
circular-argument relationship with the phonological unit of the tone group,
since by default one tone group is mapped onto one information unit: ‘Thus
the two units, the phonological “tone unit” and the grammatical “information
unit” correspond one to one; but since they are located on different strata, their
boundaries do not correspond exactly. In fact, both are fuzzy: the boundaries
are not clearly deﬁned in either case’ (Halliday and Greaves (2008), p. 99).
This means that adding yet another unit to the extremely complex taxonom-
ic intonation-grammar system does not seem to serve a useful purpose, and
Crystal (1969b) had already criticised the concept in his review of Halliday
(1967).
Another weak point of Halliday’s intonational phonology concerns the di-
vision of the stream of sound into tone groups and of these into rhythmic feet.
Although Halliday and Greaves gave up the doubtful isochrony principle and
no longer quote Abercrombie (1964), rhythmic regularity is still the building
principle of the tone group: ‘When you listen carefully to continuously ﬂow-
ing English speech, you ﬁnd there is a tendency for salient syllables to occur
at fairly regular intervals, and this affects the syllables in between: the more
of them there are, the more they will be squashed together to maintain the
tempo’ (Halliday and Greaves (2008), p. 55). This can be a useful heuristics
when dealing with isolated sentences in foreign language teaching, even more
so for learners whose native languages have totally different rhythmic struc-
tures from English, such as French. Teaching English as a Foreign Language
was a prominent ﬁeld of application of a large part of intonation analysis in
the London School of Phonetics. Halliday, likewise, worked out his system of
intonational phonology for the Edinburgh Course in Spoken English (1961) by
R. Mackin, M. A. K. Halliday, K. Albrow and J. McH. Sinclair, later published
by Oxford University Press (see Halliday 1970). The Intonation Exercises of
this course were reproduced as teaching materials at the Edinburgh Phonetics
Department Summer Vacation Course on the Phonetics of English for foreign
students. In 1965 and 1966, I was asked to give these intonation tutorials.
But the rhythmic foot analysis of the tone group does not really provide a
good basis for analysing continuous speech. Moreover, Halliday’s intonational
phonology lacks the category of a phrase boundary. Such a prosodic phrase
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 57
marker encapsulates a bundle of pitch, duration, energy and phonation features
to signal a break, which may, but need not, coincide with grammatical bounda-
ries and with the boundaries Halliday sets up for his tone groups. In sequences
of rhythmic feet, Halliday earmarks those that contain one of his ﬁve tones, the
tonic feet, constituting the tonics of tone groups. Since by arbitrary deﬁnition
any one tone group can only have one tonic (except for the major+minor tonic
compounds 13 and 53), there must be a tone group boundary between two
succeeding tonics. Where this boundary is put is again arbitrary in view of
the fuzziness Halliday and Greaves refer to in the quotation above, i.e. due to
the lack of a phonetic criterion that determines a phrase boundary. This was
again pointed out by Crystal (1969b). In many cases, Halliday no doubt takes
the grammatical structure into account when deciding on the positions of tone
group boundaries. But this is against his principle of setting up separate pho-
nological- and grammatical-rank scales and relating them afterwards, and the
violation of this principle borders on circularity.
And, ﬁnally, giving tone groups a rhythmic foot structure conﬂates rhyth-
mic grouping into ictus and remiss with meaning-related phrasal accentuation.
Halliday’s framework does not provide a separate accent category outside the
tonic, and in the latter it is the pitch-related tone category that determines the
tonic foot and the tonic syllable, and thus constitutes a phrasal accent. The syl-
lable string preceding the tonic may contain meaning-related phrasal accents,
but not all ictus syllables of a postulated rhythmic foot structure are accented.
A tonic foot may be preceded by a multisyllable prehead, which contains no
accent, but may be perceived as a sequence of strong and weak syllables due
to timing and vowel quality, for example before a tonic containing tone 3 in:
// 3 don’t stay / out too */ long // (Halliday and Greaves (2008), p. 119; see
Figure 1.2a)
In Hallidayan notation ‘don’t’ and ‘out’ are treated as ictus syllables in two
rhythmic feet of the pretonic and a tone-3 tonic. But, when listening to the
.wav ﬁle (supplied on the CDROM), no accent can be detected in the pretonic
syllable sequence, and the perception of rhythmic structure ﬂuctuates between
the one noted and /don’t stay out too/. The vocalic elements in all four sylla-
bles have durations between 120 and 130 ms. Duration would be considerably
longer in an accented syllable containing a diphthongal element.
What the (male) speaker realises here is a high prehead before the (only)
sentence accent, in a high register at a pitch level around 180 Hz, which at the
same time increases the pitch range down to the following low rise. The speaker
could, of course, have used a high prehead without going into a high register
58 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
and thus without increasing the pitch range. In the high prehead, F0 ﬂuctuation
is largely conditioned by vowel-intrinsic and consonant-vowel coarticulatory
microprosody: only the initial ‘don’t’ has a more extensive rise, which, just
like vowel duration, is not large enough to signal a phrasal accent. The listener
may then structure the prehead rhythmically in variable ways. Halliday differs
from the London School of Phonetics, e.g. O’Connor and Arnold (1961), by
Figure 1.2. Spectrograms and F0 traces (log scale) of a // 3 don’t stay / out
too */ long // – audio ﬁle 5_2_2_4a3.wav, and b // 1 don’t stay / out too */
long // – audio ﬁle 5_2_2_4a4.wav, from Halliday and Greaves (2008),
p. 119. Standard Southern British English, male speaker (M. A. K. Halliday)
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 59
not having the category of prehead. The composition of tone groups by rhyth-
mic feet with an obligatory ictus syllable that may be silent precludes it.
How serious this omission is in a systemic functional approach to intonation
is shown by the example:
// 1 don’t stay / out too */ long // (Halliday and Greaves (2008), p. 119; see
Figure 1.2b)
The notation given for this tone group differs from the previous one only by
having tone 1 instead of tone 3. But listening to the .wav ﬁle reveals two differ-
ences: (1) ‘don’t’ is accented because its prominence is greater, due to longer
duration of its sonorous part, and to more extensive F0 movement, well above
the pitch level of the following syllables, so the pretonic sequence is not a
prehead; (2) the pretonic sequence is at a much lower pitch level of 150 Hz –
even the peak in ‘don’t’ only reaches 170 Hz. The accent on ‘don’t’, combined
with the lower pitch level preceding the ﬁnal fall, intensiﬁes the meaning of a
command, whereas the unaccented, but high prehead preceding the ﬁnal low
rise intensiﬁes the meaning of a request, and the high register adds a note of
entreaty. These are important aspects of the transmitted meanings, which are
not reﬂected by different tonal categorisation in Halliday’s notation: the two
pretonics are identical because they are given the same rhythmic structure. But
this rhythmic structure is an additional overlay on accentuation, register and
range, and may surface perceptually in variable ways in both utterances. In
PROLAB, the two utterances are differentiated as:
&HP &HR don’t stay out too &2[long &, &PG
&2^don’t stay out too &0. &2^long &2. &PG
The additional rhythmic structure is captured at the level of segmental spec-
trum and timing.
The following postulates of Halliday’s intonational phonology can be taken
as essential for any prosodic framework:
• English intonation is based on a system of contour-deﬁned contras-
tive tones.
• Parallel to the phonological tone system there are lexicogrammatical
systems.
• Phonological form is part of the grammar as another exponent of
meaning in language functions.
But to be applicable to the analysis and description of prosodic systems in
connected speech, more particularly spontaneous speech, and in text-to-speech
60 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
synthesis, several weak points of Halliday’s systemic functional approach
need adjusting.
• The nesting rank scale of phonological units, as well as the immediate
constituents division of tone groups into tonic and pretonic, do not
provide an adequate representation of prosodic structures – especial-
ly, the composition of the unit of the tone group by elements of the
unit of the rhythmic foot cannot cope with the dynamic ﬂow of speech
and rhythmic disturbances such as hesitations, false starts, repeti-
tions. Instead we need an accent category with several levels, based
on degrees of prominence, to which tones are linked. In between
successive accents, pitch is organised into distinctive concatenation
patterns.
• Speech is organised into prosodic phrases, so prosodic phrase bound-
aries need to be determined by bundles of phonetic features.
• In prosodic phrases, the ﬁrst accent may be preceded by unaccented
preheads, and they form a system of mean, low and high pitch.
• Register needs to be introduced to set the pitch level of prosodic
phrases, or of the part up to the ﬁnal accent-linked pitch turn (thus
also determining pitch range), or of sequences of prosodic phrases.
When these weaknesses of Halliday’s intonational phonology became relevant
in the Kiel TTS development (Kohler 1991a,b) and in spontaneous speech an-
notation for the Verbmobil project (Kohler, Pätzold and Simpson 1995), the
description of German intonation, given in Hallidayan terms in the ﬁrst edition
of Kohler (1977), was put on a new basis developed for the tasks: the Kiel
Intonation Model. It was presented in Kohler (1991a,b), then in the second
edition of Kohler (1995) and in Kohler (1997a,b), and will be set out in Chap-
ter 2. Subsequent chapters will take Halliday’s form and function perspective
one step further. Whereas Halliday looked from phonology to grammar and
from grammar to phonology in the early papers, and later related phonological
form in grammar to metalinguistic functions, I shall reverse the relationship,
set up a few basic communicative functions within Bühler’s model and then
investigate language-speciﬁc prosodic, syntactic and lexical carriers for them.
1.4.3 Pike’s Level Analysis
Pike laid the foundation for the analysis of American English intonation on a dif-
ferent descriptive basis, auditorily referring signiﬁcant points of pitch contours –
starting and ending points, and points of direction changes, in relation to stressed
syllables – to four pitch levels, 1–4 from highest to lowest. Not every unstressed
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 61
syllable gets a signiﬁcant pitch point but may have its pitch interpolated between
neighbouring pitch points. On the other hand, a syllable may get more than one
signiﬁcant point to represent the stress-related pitch contour, or even more than
two, when a contour changes direction and is compressed into a single stressed
syllable. Pike gives a detailed formal account of the resulting pitch-level con-
tours of American English and relates them to syntactic structures. He points
out that the contours found in statements can also occur in questions and vice
versa, and he provides a wealth of ad hoc references to attitudinal and expressive
shades of meaning added to utterances by pitch contours. His analysis thus par-
allels the one by O’Connor and Arnold with a different paradigm for a different
variety of English.
1.4.4 Intonation in AM Phonology and ToBI
As Halliday provided a phonological framework within structuralist grammar
for the intonation analysis of the London School of Phonetics, Pierrehumbert
put the Pikean level analysis of intonation into a framework of Autosegmental
Metrical (AM) Phonology. The distinctive pitch levels were reduced to two, H
and L, which, on their own and in the sequence H+L and L+H, form systems
of pitch accents, phrase accents and boundary tones. In pitch accents, H and L
are associated with stressed syllables indicated by *, but they may have leading
or trailing H or L, yielding H*, L*, H+L*, H*+L, L+H*, L*+H. The separation
of H* and L+H* was a problematic alignment category in AM Phonology and
ToBI because a dip between two H* accents requires an L tone attached to
an H* tone, given the principle of linear phonetic interpolation between pitch
accents.
Falling, rising or (rising-)falling-rising nuclear pitch contours (of the Lon-
don School), which in the extreme case are compressed into a one-syllable
utterance, such as ‘yes’, are decomposed into three elements: a pitch accent,
followed by a phrase accent and, then, by a boundary tone, in each case with
selection of H or L. All three must always be represented, e.g. H*L-L%,
H*H-H%, L*H-H%, H*L-H%, L+H*L-H%, L*+HL-H%. Since falling-rising
contours are deﬁned by three pitch points, three types of syntagmatic element
are needed to represent them. AM Phonology selects them from the three ac-
cent and boundary categories and extrapolates them to all contours, including
monotonic falls and rises. These phonological elements are associated with
syllables and phrase boundaries, linked to F0 traces and aligned with segmen-
tal syllable structure in spectrograms. The confounding of pitch accents with
edge tones has already been reviewed in the discussion of AM solutions for FR
and F+R patterns of the London School in 1.4.1.
62 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
AM Phonology is a highly sophisticated formal framework, which, beyond
the basic premisses sketched here, has been undergoing continual change over
the years, and right from the outset the focus has been on form, not on function
and meaning. When the AM phonological framework became the basis for
a transcription system, ToBI, the original strict language-dependent systemic
approach began to get lost, phonetic measurement was squeezed into the preset
categories, which were transposed to other languages, and the transcription
tool was elevated to the status of a model.
Questions of meaning of the formal intonation structures have been raised,
but post festum, for example by Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg (1990), who
propose a compositional theory of intonational meaning related to pitch ac-
cents, phrase accents and boundary tones. Another, very inﬂuential example
of linking intonational form to meaning is Ward and Hirschberg (1985), where
the rise-fall-rise contour, based on the AM representation L*+HL-H%, is ana-
lysed as a context-independent contribution to conveying speaker uncertainty.
It appears, however, that most of the examples discussed by Ward and Hirsch-
berg are not instances of L*+HL-H%, but of L+H*L-H%, which they explic-
itly exclude as the phonological representation of their rise-fall-rise. With the
L*+HL-H% pattern, a speaker is said to relate an utterance element to a scale
of alternative values and to indicate not being certain whether the hearer can
accept the allocation as valid. For example, in:
B: I’m so excited. My girlfriend is coming to visit tonight.
A: From far aﬁeld?
a. B: From suburban Phila\del/phia.
b. B: *From next \door/. (p. 766)
‘[T]he speaker, a West Philadelphia resident, conveys uncertainty about wheth-
er, on a distance scale, suburban Philadelphia is far away from the speaker’s
location. … b. is distinctly odd, given the implausibility of B’s uncertainty
whether next door is far away’ (p. 766).
The authors provide an analysis in terms of logical semantics at the
Representation level, which considerably narrows the ﬁeld of speech commu-
nication, and may thus make it difﬁcult to capture the full range of the commu-
nicative function of the fall-rise pattern in English. If, in the above example,
B were to give a facetious answer, with a smile on his face, b. would not be
odd at all, but would be understood as an ironic reply to A’s enquiry about dis-
tance. It would still be an instance of what Sharp (1958) called the dissociative
reference to alternatives in his fall-rise FR. The semantic-prosodic distinction
between this pattern and Sharp’s F+R is nicely illustrated by the two versions
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 63
of the sentence ‘I thought so’ discussed in 1.4.1. The speaker expresses associ-
ation with, or dissociation from, the earlier belief, using either F+R or FR, and
is certain about that in both cases. With FR, the speaker is, on the one hand,
deﬁnite about having changed his mind, by using a peak pattern, but on the oth-
er hand, plays it down in social interaction conforming to a behavioural code,
by adding a rise to alleviate the categoricalness in an appeal to the listener to
accept the change of mind. If the speaker makes a statement about the present
opinion without associative or dissociative reference to the past, it may be ‘I
[F/R] think so’, with either a fall or a low rise for a deﬁnite or a non-committal
response.
Whereas all the Ward and Hirschberg examples of American English have
their fall-rise equivalents in Standard Southern British English, this may not
hold for transposing Sharp’s British English examples to American English.
If the pattern distinctions do apply to both varieties, the conﬂation of pitch
accents with edge tones and the lack of an accent category, separate from pitch,
preclude the distinctive representations of the semantic-prosodic subtleties
related to fall-rise pitch patterns. This may be illustrated by the following
contextualisations:
To provide sufﬁcient seating at a family get-together, father A says
to his two boys B and C
A We need more chairs in the sitting-room. Go and get two from the
kitchen and a couple more from the dining-room.
B [Goes to the kitchen, comes back with two chairs, says to A]
(a) There’s [FR] another one in the kitchen.
PROLAB: There’s &2^another one in the kitchen &., &PG
(b) There’s [F+R] another one in the kitchen.
PROLAB: There’s &2^another one in the &2. &1]kitchen &,
&PG
(c) There’s [FR] another one in the [R] kitchen.
PROLAB: There’s &2^another one in the &., &1] kitchen &,
&PG
C [Goes to the dining-room, gets two chairs, comes back via the
kitchen, says to A]
(d) There’s [F] another one in the [R] kitchen.
PROLAB: There’s &2^another one in the &2. &2[kitchen &,
&PG
(e) There’s [FR] another one in the [FR] kitchen.
PROLAB: There’s &2^another one in the &., &2^kitchen
&., &PG
64 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
In (a), B uses a rise-fall-rise that falls sharply to a low level on ‘another’, and
then immediately rises again to mid-level at the end of ‘kitchen’, which is un-
accented because it is integrated in a monotonic rise from ‘one’ onwards. This
is Sharp’s unitary FR, Halliday’s tone 4, and L+H*L-H% in AM Phonology. B
transmits the meaning ‘There’s an additional chair in the kitchen, besides the
two I have just brought from there, although Dad thought there were only two’,
a dissociative reference to alternatives.
In (b), the rise after the low-level fall on ‘another’ is delayed until ‘kitch-
en’, which is partially foregrounded with a partial accent. This is Sharp’s
compound F+R, and Halliday’s double-tonic with tone 13. However, the
pattern cannot be represented in AM Phonology because the categorisation
L+H* L*L-H% for a fall followed by a rise, with two pitch accents and ﬁnal
edge tones, allocates two full accents to the phrase, and therefore does not
distinguish (b) from (d). The F+R pattern makes an associative reference to
alternatives; it does not have the contrastive reference to A’s mention of ‘two
chairs from the kitchen’.
In (c), B makes the same dissociative reference to alternatives as in (a) but
partially foregrounds ‘kitchen’, giving it a partial accent by breaking the rising
contour of the fall-rise and by starting another rise from a lower level with-
in the same intonation phrase. In Sharp’s analysis, ‘another’ would receive
a fall-rise FR, ‘kitchen’ a simple rise. Similarly, Halliday would have tone 4
followed by tone 3 in two tone groups. AM Phonology cannot represent this
pattern because an intermediate intonation phrase would have to be postulated
even in the absence of any phonetic boundary marker. If the pitch break were
to be taken as the indication of such a phrase boundary, from which the pres-
ence of edge tones would in turn be deduced, the argument becomes circular.
In all three descriptive frames, the different accent level of ‘kitchen’ versus
that of ‘another’ would not be marked, and therefore the different meaning
from (d) and (e) could not be captured.
Since C has brought chairs from the dining-room he refers contrastively
to an additional chair in the kitchen, and gives ‘kitchen’ a full accent. In (d),
Sharp’s F+R is separated into F and R linked to the two accents, with associ-
ative reference to alternatives. Halliday would have to have two tone groups
//1 There’s another one //3 in the kitchen.// This analysis is independent of
the presence or absence of phonetic boundary markers. In AM Phonology,
the pattern may be represented by two pitch accents in one intonation phrase,
L+H* L*L-H%, because the L of the second pitch accent provides the right-
hand pitch point for linear interpolation of the fall from the H of the ﬁrst
pitch accent. In (e), there are dissociative references to an alternative number
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 65
of chairs and to an alternative locality, by two rise-fall-rises linked to the
two accents. As in (c), there may again be a single prosodic phrase. Sharp’s
analysis would simply have FR in both positions; Halliday would again need
two tone groups, each with tone 4. In AM Phonology, two intonation phrases
with L+H*L-H% would be necessary to generate the four-point rise-fall-
rise contours, each with two intonation-phrase edge tones in addition to two
pitch-accent tones, irrespective of the potential absence of phonetic boundary
markers between them.
Thus, the AM phonological representations in (d) and (e) of C differ in
the relative allocation of prosodic information to the theoretical categories of
paradigmatic pitch accent and syntagmatic intonation phrasing. This differ-
ent allocation is conditioned by constraints in the canonical AM deﬁnitions of
prosodic categories:
• Pitch accents are deﬁned by up to two sequential H or L tones.
• In a sequence of pitch accents, the pitch contour between abutting
tones is the result of linear phonetic interpolation between the phono-
logical pitch-accent tones. Therefore, for example, in two successive
peak patterns, a distinctive pitch dip between two H* necessitates
postulating a bitonal pitch accent, either a trailing L tone in the ﬁrst,
or a leading L tone in the second.
• The pitch contour between the last pitch-accent tone and the end of
the intonation phrase is represented by two sequential H or L edge
tones, a phrase accent and a boundary tone.
• A rise-fall-rise intonation contour around an accented syllable, with
four distinctive pitch points, must be represented by a bitonal pitch
accent followed by two edge tones.
• If a rise-fall-rise contour occurs utterance-internal, it must be fol-
lowed by an intonation phrase boundary.
• If there are no phonetic boundary markers indicating such a bounda-
ry, such as segmental lengthening, with or without a following pause,
there are no pitch-independent reasons for postulating such a bound-
ary, or the argumentation becomes circular by using pitch as the de-
ﬁning feature for the postulated boundary, which in turn determines
the edge tones before it.
These constraints on the phonological representation of intonation contours in
AM Phonology reduce descriptive and explanatory adequacy in prosodic data
interpretation, compared with the accounts provided by the London School
and Halliday.
66 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
1.4.4.1 Alignment of Rise-Fall-Rises in English
AM Phonology conceptualises English L*+HL-H% and L+H*L-H% rise-fall-
rise patterns as different alignments of the L and H tones of the rise-fall pitch
accent with the stressed syllable: either L or H is aligned with it, H trailing
L* and L leading H*, producing later (delayed) or earlier association of the
pitch accent with the stressed syllable. An even earlier alignment is given as
H*L-H%, and there is a fourth possibility – H+L*L-H%, where alignment
occurs with the syllable preceding the stressed one, which appears not to be
discussed in the AM literature. KIM treats these pitch patterns as distinctive
points on a scale of synchronisation, from early to late, of F0 peak maximum
with vocal-tract timing, and uses the PROLAB notations <&2) &.,>, <&2^
&.,>, <&2^-(&.,>, <&2(&.,> (see 2.7).
Pierrehumbert and Steele (1987, 1989) raised the question as to wheth-
er the L+H*L-H% versus L*+HL-H% distinction is discrete or scalar.
They based their investigation on the utterance ‘Only a millionaire’, with
initial stress on the noun and F0 peaking earlier or later in relation to the
offset of /m/. They contextualised the two versions in a scenario of a fund-
raising campaign targeting the richest. A potential donor, when approached
as a billionaire in a telephone call, replies, ‘Oh, no. Only a millionaire’, with
L+H*L-H%, whereupon the charity representative expresses his incredulity
and uncertainty with the later peak alignment L*+HL-H%. To decide on the
discrete versus scalar issue, the authors performed a perception-production
experiment. They took a natural production of a L+H*L-H% utterance as the
point of departure for LPC synthesis, shifting the stylised rise-fall pattern in
20 ms steps through the utterance, with peak positions ranging from 35 ms
to 315 ms after /m/ offset.
Five subjects were asked to listen to each of the ﬁfteen stimuli in ﬁfteen
randomised blocks, and to imitate what they had heard. These imitations were
recorded and analysed with the hypothesis that, if the categories are discrete,
the ideal speaker/listener will allocate the percepts to two different categories
and then reproduce them in such a way that the realisations will show a bimodal
clustering. The statistical basis of this experiment is weak, not only because
of the insufﬁcient number of subjects, but more particularly since one hearer-
speaker was the junior author, who, of course, knew what the test categories
were and sounded like, and who produced the clearest bimodal pattern. Further-
more, one subject failed to produce even a vague resemblance of bimodality.
The authors’ conclusion that the two phonological categorisations of
rise-fall-rise patterns in AM Phonology represent a discrete contrast can
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 67
therefore not be accepted as having been proved. It is to be assumed that peak
shifts in rise-fall-rise patterns are perceptually processed in similar ways to
peak shifts in rise-fall patterns, as obtained for English and German (see 2.8).
These data show that the perception of peak synchronisation only changes
categorically from early (pre-accent) to medial (in-accent) position, but not
for peak shift inside the accented vowel, from medial to late, where changes
are perceived along a continuum. Since the Pierrehumbert and Steele experi-
ment only dealt with the in-accent shift, the potential categorical change from
pre-accent to in-accent could not become a research issue, and in view of the
weakness of the experimental paradigm, the results do not support discrete
patterning. The perceptual and cognitive processing of rise-fall-rise peak shifts
may be considered parallel to that observed for rise-falls, with the addition
of an interactional rapport feature carried by ﬁnal rising pitch. Whereas in
a shift from early to medial peak there is a discrete semantic change from
Finality to Openness, coupled with a categorical perceptual change
(see 2.8), the shift from medial to late peak successively adds degrees of
Contrast and of the expression of Unexpectedness along a continuum of
peak synchronisation. Furthermore, this expression includes other prosodic
variables besides F0 alignment, i.e. F0 peak height, timing, energy and more
breathy phonation.
This issue was investigated by Hirschberg and Ward (1992). They report
recording the pattern L+H*L-H% with eight utterances in an ‘uncertainty’ as
well as in an ‘incredulity’ context, where the latter was hypothesised to gen-
erate an expanded pitch range, different timing, amplitude and spectral char-
acteristics. The utterances differed widely in the stretch of speech over which
the rise-fall-rise was spread, with ‘ELEVEN in the morning’ at one end of the
scale and ‘Nine MILLION’ at the other. For the former, the two contexts, as
well as the F0 displays of the two data samples produced, are provided:
‘uncertainty’ A So, do you tend to come in pretty late then?
B \ELEVEN in the morning/.
‘incredulity’ A I’d like you here tomorrow morning at eleven.
B !ELEVEN in the morning!
! ! is to symbolise the incredulity version of the utterance with the same
pitch-accent and edge-tone pattern L*+HL-H% as in the uncertainty version \ /.
The two ﬁgures provided show that F0 sets in low and starts rising at the end of
the stressed vowel of ‘eleven’, peaks at the end of the accented word, stays high
during the following vowel and then descends to a low level in ‘the’. There
68 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
follows a further small F0 drop in the stressed vowel of ‘morning’, before F0
rises again in the ﬁnal syllable. The two displays differ only in the F0 range,
which is wider in the ‘incredulity’ version, with a slightly higher precursor
and considerably higher peak and end points. These F0 patterns suggest that
‘morning’ received extra prominence and was accented in both cases. This
would also be a more plausible realisation of the utterance in the two contexts
than the one with a single accent on ‘eleven’ and a much earlier rise, start-
ing somewhere around ‘the’. So, this pattern looks different from a single-
accent rise-fall-rise in ‘million’ and does not seem to be L*+HL-H%, but
L*+HL*L-H%, a fall followed by a rise, as in (b) or (d) of ‘There’s another one
in the kitchen’ in 1.4.4. This would mean that ‘incredulity’ is signalled by the
expanded pitch ranges of the late peak, which signals expressively evaluated
Contrast, and of the ﬁnal rise, probably supported by non-modal phonation.
A double-accent fall-rise in the ‘uncertainty’ context does not make a dissocia-
tive reference to other alternatives, as the single-accent rise-fall-rise would. But
the late peak contrasts, and expressively evaluates, B’s time reference with A’s
question about coming in ‘pretty late’, and the ﬁnal rise establishes contact with
the dialogue partner and alleviates the categoricalness of a late peak.
Hirschberg and Ward used the recordings of the eight contextualised utter-
ances to generate two sets of stimuli, categorised as conveying ‘uncertainty’
and ‘incredulity’ for a listening experiment, where subjects had to allocate
each stimulus to one of the two categories. Since the pitch patterns were most
probably not homogeneous, and since such context-free semantic allocations
are difﬁcult, especially in view of the somewhat opaque meaning of ‘uncer-
tainty’, the conclusions about the physical properties that cue ‘uncertainty’ or
‘incredulity’ are not so clear as they are made out to be.
1.4.5 A New Paradigm
The critical historical survey in 1.4 has prepared the ground, and provided
the rationale, for presenting a new paradigm. The following chapters model
prosody in relation to communicative functions of speech interaction, on the
basis of the Kiel Intonation Model (KIM) in a broad linguistic-paralinguistic
setting. The concern for function in prosody research at Kiel University goes
back to Bill Barry’s paper ‘Prosodic functions revisited again!’ (Barry 1981),
following Brazil (1975, 1978). The function perspective guided the analysis,
in production and perception, of prosody in general, and of intonation in par-
ticular, from the early 1980s onwards, converging on the development of a
prosodic model (Kohler 1991a,b, 1997b, 2006b, 2009b).
Descriptive Modelling of Prosody 69
The idea behind KIM is that modelling prosody should mirror its use by
speakers and listeners in communicative action, i.e. prosodic categories must
be an integral part of communication processes rather than just static elements
in a linguistic description. Speakers use prosody to structure the ﬂow of sound
for the transmission of meaning to listeners. In a synsemantic ﬁeld, prosody op-
erates on linguistic signs in parallel to morphological and syntactic patterning
for propositional representation, and in a sympractical deictic ﬁeld it signals
Speaker-Listener-Situation relations. Finally, speakers use prosody to express
their emotions and attitudes, and to signal their appeals to listeners. The pro-
sodic model is to be structured in such a way that it can capture and adequately
represent all these communicative functions in speaker–listener interaction.
This also implies that the model needs to be integrated into a theory of speech
and language together with all the other formal means – segmental-phonetic,
lexical, morphological, syntactic – contributing in varying proportions as
carriers of these functions. The model must be oriented towards basic com-
municative functions of homo loquens, and at the same time it must take into
account psycho-physical components of the human-speech producing, perceiv-
ingandunderstandingmechanisms,irrespectiveofanyparticularlanguageform
that organises the general psycho-physical prerequisites for communicative
purposes in language-speciﬁc ways.
KIM follows the European tradition of postulating a system of distinctive
global pitch contours – peak, valley, combined peak-valley and level patterns.
The model sets out how these patterns are synchronised with vocal-tract articu-
lation, how they are concatenated into a hierarchy of larger units from phrase
to utterance to paragraph in reading or to turn in dialogue, and how they are
embedded in other prosodic patterns – vocal-tract dynamics, prominence and
phonation, paying attention to both the production and the perception of pros-
ody in communicative function. The model was developed over many years,
starting with a project in the German Research Council programme ‘Forms
and Functions of Intonation’ in the 1980s (Kohler 1991c), continuing with its
implementation in the INFOVOX TTS system (Kohler 1997a) and with the
development of a data acquisition and annotation platform in the PHONDAT
and VERBMOBIL projects of the German Ministry of Research and Tech-
nology (Kohler, Pätzold and Simpson 1995; Scheffers and Rettstadt 1997). In
this research environment, large databases of read and spontaneous German
speech were collected (IPDS 1994–2006; Kohler, Peters and Scheffers 2017a–
b) and annotated segmentally and prosodically with the help of the PRO[sod-
ic]LAB[elling] tool (Kohler 1997b; Kohler, Peters and Scheffers 2017a–b),
70 Speech Communication in Human Interaction
which was devised to symbolise the prosodic systems and structures of KIM
for computer processing of the German corpora. In a subsequent German
Research Council project, ‘Sound Patterns of German Spontaneous Speech’,
various prosodic aspects of the corpus data were analysed in the KIM-
PROLAB frame (Kohler, Kleber and Peters 2005). PhD theses by Benno
Peters (2006) and Oliver Niebuhr (2007b) followed, and there has been a
continuous ﬂow of prosodic research within this paradigm in Kiel.
71
2 Prosody in a Functional Framework:
The Kiel Intonation Model (KIM)
The following sections will successively build up the concepts of KIM: Prom-
inence (2.1), Sentence accent (2.2, 2.3), Declination, downstep and upstep
(2.4), Lexical stress (2.5, 2.6), Intonation (2.7, 2.8), Concatenation of pitch
patterns (2.9), Contour-internal F0 timing in falls and rises (2.10), Prehead
and register (2.11), Prosodic phrasing (2.12) and Microprosody (2.13). In each
case, the PROLAB symbolisation will be introduced in parallel to the cate-
gories. The chapter is rounded off by a section on level-pitch stepping pat-
terns (2.14), followed by an overview of Time-windows in speech production
(2.15).
2.1 Prominence
In any language, the ﬂow of syllables produced by a speaker varies along a
scale of salience. This ﬂuctuation is referred to by the concept of prominence,
i.e. the listener’s perception of relative weight in the acoustic intermediary
generated by the articulatory mechanism. In Metrical Phonology, prominence
is a qualitative, phonological category whose levels are derived from linguistic
structures (Liberman and Prince 1977), largely based on native speakers’ intu-
ition. Fant and Kruckenberg (1989, 1999) proposed a quantiﬁcation of promi-
nence on a perceptual scale from 0 to 30 (the 1999 paper erroneously refers to
an upper end of 35), by asking subjects to mark each syllable in the recording
of a read text on the given scale. They then correlated the perceptual sylla-
ble judgements with the physical syllable parameters of sub- and supra-glottal
pressure, syllable duration, F0 and sound-pressure level with and without
high-frequency pre-emphasis. Duration turned out to be a very robust indi-
cator of perceptual prominence. The quantiﬁed concept of perceptual promi-
nence was pursued further in Wagner (2002), but now based on a scale from
0 to 31.
The problem with this type of quantitative scaling is that, on the one hand, it
is too detailed and puts high demands on subjects, which they are only able to
72 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
meet somehow because they are biased by being told that typical values are 10
units for unstressed syllables and 20 units for stressed syllables. On the other
hand, the detail is not only unnecessary for a proper assessment of prominence
variation in running speech, it also blurs the relation to the signiﬁcant produc-
tion patterns that create the acoustic signals that listeners have to judge on a
perceptual prominence scale.
By way of illustration, let us look at the German Confirmation Ques-
tion ‘Wie weit ist es bis Hamburg?’ [How far is it to Hamburg?] in Figure
2.1a. In the F0 trace inside the spectrogram, there is a monotonic F0 rise
throughout the sentence (plain line), only disturbed by microprosodic effects
at vowel-consonant-vowel transitions (see 2.13). This global F0 pattern
gives high prominence to the initial syllable and lower prominence to all the
following ones. In terms of discrete prosodic categories, we say that the for-
mer receives a sentence accent and the latter are unaccented (see 2.2). Com-
bined with question-word structure, this pattern signals that the information
about ‘distance to’ has already been given by a dialogue partner; and that
the speaker is asking for conﬁrmation, backgrounding the locality. If ‘Ham-
burg’ is replaced by ‘Halle’ [ˈhalə], the prominence relations in the syllable
chain remain the same but both [ˈha] and [lə] have lower values because of
reduced articulatory syllable complexity leading to shorter durations and less
acoustic change. On the other hand, replacing ‘Hamburg’ with ‘Flensburg’
[ˈflɛnsbʊɐk] increases the prominence of the penultimate syllable, within the
same prominence proﬁle, because of the greater articulatory complexity of
‘Flens-’.
The perceptual syllable prominence relations are, from high to low,
‘wie’, ‘weit’, ‘Ham-’, ‘-burg’, ‘ist’/‘bis’, ‘es’, reﬂected in their relative
durations.
However, if the monotonic F0 rise is broken by the rise starting afresh from
a slightly lower level on ‘Hamburg’ (dashed line in Figure 2.1a), the locality is
weakly foregrounded as a speciﬁc reference in the Confirmation Question,
changing the prominence proﬁle of the utterance: ‘Ham-’ is now at the second-
highest prominence level. In categorical terms it is partially deaccented (see
2.2). If a more substantial break of the monotonic rise is effected by a larger
F0 drop at the beginning of ‘Hamburg’ (dotted line), the prominence level
is raised to that of ‘wie’, and the sentence mode changes from Confirma-
tion Question to Information Question. The speaker no longer asks
the listener to repeat information that has already been provided, but solicits
new information about both distance and locality, with two discrete sentence
accents (see 2.2), for example in the dialogue context:
Prominence 73
A: Für die Fahrt nach Hannover werden wir etwa drei Stunden brauchen.
Wir können dazwischen ohne weiteres einen Einkaufsbummel in
Hamburg einplanen.
[Driving to Hanover will take about three hours. We can easily stop
on the way for a shopping spree in Hamburg.]
B: Wie weit ist es bis Hamburg?
[How far is it to Hamburg?]
Figure 2.1. Spectrograms and F0 traces (log scale) of German question-
word interrogative ‘Wie weit ist es bis Hamburg?’: a, Confirmation
Question with rising F0 starting on ‘wie’; b, Information Question with
rising-falling F0 starting around ‘wie’. In each panel, spectrogram and
thick plain F0 trace from original, naturally produced utterance a or b.
Dashed and dotted F0 traces derived from original utterances in Praat by
systematic pointwise manual modiﬁcation across the two ﬁnal syllables to
test prominence changes in psola resynthesis. Likewise, continuously falling
F0 contour (thin line in b) generated from the original rising-falling one.
Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
74 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
The same changes apply when ‘Halle’ or ‘Flensburg’ are weakly foregrounded
or given full foreground weight, relative to lowered or raised prominence lev-
els of their different syllable complexities.
Attributing prominence levels to the two ﬁnal syllables in the monotonic F0
rise pattern of the Confirmation Question does not add any information
that is not already contained in the articulatory make-up of the lexical items
and their acoustic transforms. But the F0-related prominence increases utter-
ance-initially and -ﬁnally have such additional information value because they
are intentionally introduced by the speaker to perform communicative func-
tions. Similarly, the low prominence levels of the function words ‘ist’, ‘es’,
‘bis’ reﬂect articulatory reduction in low-key speech stretches. Prominence
may thus either be determined by articulatory complexity of syllables at the
lexical level, or it may be derived from prosodic structuring reﬂecting commu-
nicative functions in speech interaction. It may be regarded as a production cat-
egory, linked directly to its physical parameters. Setting up acoustic databases
annotated by instructed or trained listeners on a syllable prominence scale, and
correlating these perceptual measures with physical production parameters is
an indirect way of making statements about the physical exponents of weight
ﬂuctuation in speech production. It is an attempt to replace the discrete prom-
inence categories of metrical phonology with an objective measure along a
continuous scale. But the reliability of this measure as an objective mapping of
syllable prominence perception is questionable, because prominence proﬁles
are generated in subjective auditory evaluation by a small number of specially
instructed listeners, and there is no guarantee that they actually apply purely
auditory criteria, uninﬂuenced by syntactic and semantic considerations.
I relate the prominence concept to varying degrees of articulatory weight
that speakers give to syllables in the speech ﬂow in order to make speciﬁc
syllables more salient against their neighbours for the listener. This is achieved
by a hierarchy, from most to least important, of the physical parameters of
F0 change, syllabic duration ratio, acoustic energy ratio and spectra of more
peripheral versus more central vowels in adjacent syllables. In non-tone lan-
guages, like German or English, where pitch is not distinctive at the level of
the lexical syllable and therefore free to vary across syllables at the phrase
level, F0 gliding up or down through a syllable, or changing gliding direction,
or a ﬂat F0 contour getting broken by stepping up or down from one syllable
to the next, are strong markers of prominence. If monotonic upward gliding
continues through subsequent syllables to the end of a phrase, F0 does not
mark any further prominent syllables. But if the monotonic gliding is broken
by a renewed rising movement, this marks another prominent syllable, with
Prominence 75
two distinctive degrees of prominence, depending on the extent of the F0 drop
relative to a threshold (see Figure 2.1a).
Similarly, monotonic downward gliding into low trailing off does not gen-
erate further prominences, but breaking the monotonic gliding by a renewed
falling movement does, again in two distinctive degrees. The F0 traces inside
the spectrogram of Figure 2.1b illustrate this: ‘wie’ is made strongly prominent
either by an F0 fall (thin plain line), or a rise-fall straddling ‘wie weit’ (thick
plain line). In both cases, the thick line continuing to the end of ‘Hamburg’
marks the low-prominence trailing off, only disturbed by consonant-
vowel-consonant microprosodies.
The global F0 fall signals that the speaker requests more precise information
about the distance of the locality than the dialogue partner has provided, for
example in the context:
A: Von Kiel nach Hamburg ist es nicht weit.
[It is not far from Kiel to Hamburg.]
B: Wie weit ist es bis Hamburg?
Breaking the monotonic downward trend by a restart from a slightly higher
F0 level, as shown by the dashed line, again gives the syllable ‘Ham-’ extra
prominence, second to ‘wie’. This puts the word ‘Hamburg’ in the prosodic
category of partial deaccentuation (see 2.2). Its function is to weakly fore-
ground ‘Hamburg’ as an explicit reference to the requested distance informa-
tion, which is also possible in the above context. A more extensive F0 break,
shown by the dotted line, puts the prominence of ‘Ham-’ on a par with the one
of ‘wie’, creating a second sentence accent on a downtrend line of successive
peaks (see 2.4). This prosodic pattern is no longer possible in the above con-
text because it singles out the locality ‘Hamburg’ among alternatives and asks
something speciﬁc about it.
In the utterances of Figures 2.1b and 2.2a, the initial interrogative word
‘wie’ is made prominent by gliding F0 movement across it, which links it to a
sentence accent. But this movement varies within a wide range. In Figure 2.1b,
it either falls from syllable onset, thus has its peak maximum early and lowers
the pitch percept of the prominent syllable nucleus, or it rises to its maxi-
mum within the prominent syllable before falling across the following syllable
‘weit’, thus shifting the pitch percept of the prominent syllable upwards. In
Figure 2.2a, F0 rises up to its maximum at the vowel onset of ‘weit’, where the
fall starts. So, we notice a progressive rightward shift of the peak maximum
synchronisation (see 2.7, 2.8). This shift does not alter the position of promi-
nence in the syllable chain and the sentence accent in the sentence; it changes
76 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
the intonation pattern as an exponent of different expressive and attitudinal
functions. But a further move to the right in Figure 2.2b does shift prominence
from ‘wie’ to ‘weit’. This means that in German certain F0 contours not only
function as carriers of perceived pitch patterns, as F0 generally does, but, over
and above that, they function as carriers of perceived prominence patterns. In
the IPO perception model of intonation this was termed ‘prominence lending’
(’t Hart, Collier and Cohen 1990).
Prominence-lending F0 is supported by timing. The comparison of Figures
2.2a,b shows that prominence goes together with a change of the duration ratio
of the prominent and non-prominent syllable nuclei [iː] and [aɪ]: 96 ms: 135
ms and 80 ms: 175 ms. The integration of a fall with a preceding rise into one
Figure 2.2. Spectrograms and F0 traces (log scale) of four functionally
different types of accentuation in the German Information Question ‘Wie
weit ist es (bis)?’ They are all rising-falling F0 patterns synchronised around
different words in the sentence: a, rise on ‘wie’, fall on ‘weit’, single accent
on ‘wie’; b, rise on ‘weit’, fall on ‘ist’, single accent on ‘weit’; c, rise on
‘wie’, fall stretched out across lengthened ‘weit’, two-accent hat pattern;
d, rise on ‘wie’, followed by fall into ‘weit’, new rise in ‘weit’, followed
by fall on ‘ist’, two-accent double-peak pattern. Standard German, male
speaker (KJK).
Prominence 77
prominent F0 peak contour around the syllable containing the rise presupposes
that the two movements must not exceed a certain time-window, which is set by
the overall speech rate, the syllable complexity and short or long vowel quan-
tities. The single rise-fall pattern in Figure 2.2a has a width of about 220 ms
from the left to the right low F0 base point. This time-window is doubled in
the rise-fall pattern of Figure 2.2c on the same segmental string. Here the rise
on ‘wie’ and the fall on the lengthened nucleus of ‘weit’ become dissociated
into two prominences in a two-accent hat pattern (see 2.9). The time-window
for the rise-fall needs to be above a duration threshold to signal two separate
prominences for the fall and for the rise. If the hat pattern is broken up into
two rise-falls, as in Figure 2.2d, each has its own time-window for two separate
prominences leading to two accents.
An utterance such as ‘Die Uhr tickt’ [The clock is ticking], intended as a
double-accent hat pattern with a late rise on ‘Uhr’ and an early fall on ‘tickt’,
may become ambiguous with a single-accent late peak contour spanning ‘Uhr
tickt’. Ambiguity arises in sequences of two accented monosyllabic words
where the second one does not provide much leeway for temporal expansion
of the falling F0 branch, particularly when, as in the present case, the short
vowel [ɪ] in the voiceless obstruent context puts heavy limitations on the F0
time-window for a double-prominence rise-fall (Hertrich 1991). This prob-
lem does not arise in the rise-fall pattern of Figure 2.2b, although the time-
window between the left and right F0 base points spans ‘weit ist es’ with a
duration of >400 ms. In spite of this expansion, only one prominence is per-
ceived, associated with ‘weit’. This is due, ﬁrst of all, to the very short durations
of the vowels in the function words ‘ist’ and ‘es’, which cannot create prom-
inences. Secondly, the F0 fall is curtailed at the long obstruent sequence ‘st’,
and there are, furthermore, microprosodic disturbances in the consonant-vowel
sequences ‘-t ist e-’ delaying the F0 descent. The perception mechanism must
take all these variables into account to arrive at just one prominence in a single
accented word.
The prominence-lending function of F0 applies to all the West-Germanic
languages. The discussion of the German data can therefore be extrapolated
to the English equivalents. And the principle still holds in all languages that
mark sentence accents by gliding F0. French does not seem to ﬁt into this set
(see 2.2). The conditions change completely in tone languages where F0 does
not have the same freedom of variation across syllable chains, and therefore F0
gliding to mark prominence cannot operate in the same way. It is an empirical
question to investigate the concept of prominence in contour and register tone
languages of East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, respectively, to ﬁnd out to
78 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
what extent F0 can play a role in generating prominences and how other pho-
netic variables, especially vowel duration and spectral features, take over the
prominence-lending function. The question remains as to whether prominence
relations are used at all to signal sentence accentuation, or whether syntactic
and lexical forms are used instead. One thing is already certain: the perceptual
prominence scaling proposed by Fant and Kruckenberg on the basis of prosody
relations in Swedish syllable sequences cannot apply to tone languages and has
no status as a language-independent measure.
2.2 Sentence Accent
In the synsemantic ﬁeld, speakers select objects and weight factual relations
between them by choosing lexical items and putting them in morpho-syntactic
and prosodic structures to mark their relative importance (see Chapter 3). The
prosodic category that fulﬁls this function besides phrase structure is sentence
accent. It needs to be given a separate status in its own right in the prosodic
model, independent of intonation and the metrical structure of words and
phrases. Four distinctive levels of sentence accent, based on levels of promi-
nence, are distinguished to bring out relations between words in phrase struc-
tures.
Label Prosodic category
&0 unaccented (defocused)
&1 (partially) deaccented (partially foregrounded)
&2 default accent
&3 reinforced accent
In prosodic notation, accented words are preﬁxed by one of the accent labels.
Accent labels, and all other prosodic labels introduced in subsequent sections,
are marked by &.
These accent levels are manifested by scaling and summing the prominence
variables of F0 change, syllabic duration ratio, acoustic energy ratio and spec-
trum between neighbouring syllables. They form a perceptual hierarchy from
most to least important (Kohler 2012). Accent levels &0-&2 are discrete pro-
sodic categories; accent level &3 is graded depending on the degree of intensi-
ﬁcation. At the unaccented level, F0 change does not exceed a critical thresh-
old, but is integrated in the F0 pattern associated with a neighbouring sentence
accent, e.g. the low trailing off after a peak contour, or the monotonic continu-
ation of a valley rise (see 2.1). All languages have a sentence-accent category,
but they vary greatly in its use beside morpho-syntactic structure. They also
differ in the way the physical properties are docked in the ﬂow of words.
Sentence Accent 79
In all the West Germanic languages, any word in an utterance can be put
in focus by a sentence accent, thus weighting the object or factual relation it
represents. For example, in English, a Speaker A, in talking about the guests
at a party, may say:
&2Anna &0came &0with &2Manny.
(cf. Liberman and Pierrehumbert 1984), attributing equal information weight
to both ‘Anna’ and ‘Manny’ by giving each a default accent. Then Speaker B
may reply:
&2No. &2Alice &0came &0with &1/&0Manny.
with a default accent on ‘Alice’ and just partially foregrounding ‘Manny’ by
partial deaccentuation, or defocusing it altogether by complete deaccentua-
tion. On the other hand, Speaker B may reply:
&2No. &1Anna &0came &0with &2Morris.
with the reversed sentence-accent patterns on ‘Morris’ and ‘Anna’. In such
contradictory statements, the names may get a reinforced accent &3. In all
these cases, patterns of F0-change, increased duration, more peripheral vowel
articulation and greater acoustic energy are docked at the lexically stressed
initial syllables (see 2.5) of the accented or partially deaccented words, raising
their prominences.
Prominence-lending F0 gliding over words to be highlighted is a power-
ful indicator of sentence accents (see 2.1), but their speciﬁc pitch patterns
depend on the distinctive intonation elements selected at each sentence accent
(see 2.7). One possibility is a rising-falling peak pattern at each accent, with
downstep from peak to peak, to signal equal prominence for equal information
weight. In the case of two successive accents, they may either be implemented
as a double F0 peak or as an F0 hat pattern (see 2.1, 2.9), depending on linked
or separated information weighting (see 2.9). The hat pattern is a broadened
rise-fall, which is conceptualised as containing the rise for the ﬁrst accent and
the fall for the second, i.e. a concatenation of two peaks, without a ﬁrst fall and
a second rise. Downstepping, which creates default accents in peak sequences,
also applies to the hat pattern. This was illustrated in the double prominence
hat pattern of Figure 2.2c; the double-peak pattern of Figure 2.2d, however,
lacks this downstep and consequently creates greater prominence on the sec-
ond peak, which becomes a reinforced accent. In a &3 peak, the extent of F0
change is graded for degrees of intensiﬁcation. For further discussion of the
concept of downstep, see 2.4.
80 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
Information selection and weighting by prosodic sentence accentuation is
not possible in French. The French equivalent of Speaker A’s double-accent
utterance ‘[Annie] [est venue] [avec Michel]’ is organised in two or three pro-
sodic phrases, each with a rising syllable series. In the last prosodic phrase, it
ends on the penultimate and is followed by an abrupt descent on the ﬁnal syl-
lable. In each prosodic phrase, the ﬁnal syllable is made more prominent than
the preceding ones because of the break in the rising pitch series, either due to
the restart in the next phrase or due to the utterance-ﬁnal drop. In the case of
three prosodic phrases, ‘Annie’ gets its own informational weight; in the case
of two phrases, it is subordinated to the information ‘est venue’. The phrase-
ﬁnal accentuation highlights information structure in prosodic phrasing; it does
not weight lexical elements, which lose their phonetic boundary identity in
these prosodic phrases. This, in turn, means that focusing on selected words
requires formal means other than the prosodic patterns of sentence accent, i.e.
cleft sentence construction. So, the French equivalents of Speaker B’s one-
accent utterances would be ‘Non, c’est Alice (qui est venue avec Michel)’, and
‘Non, c’est avec Maurice (qu’Annie est venue).’ In each utterance, the ﬁrst
part is a self-contained statement, with an abrupt pitch drop on the last sylla-
ble. The second part is usually skipped; if it is present, it is backgrounded by
a narrower pitch range of the rising-falling phrase pattern. In English, Speaker
A may also contradict Speaker B’s negation by &2No, &2no. &2Anna &3did
&0come &0with &0Manny with one sentence accent on the verb phrase,
structurally intensiﬁed by ‘did’: the focus pattern is further reinforced syntac-
tically. In French, this would be rendered by ‘Non, non, Annie est venue avec
Michel’ with the same prosodic structuring as in the neutral statement, but with
intensiﬁcation of ‘est’ (accent d’insistance) by an initial glottal stop and vowel
lengthening, and by retaining the [ə], in the ﬁrst syllable of ‘venue’ as well as
by pitch range expansion of the prosodic phrases.
In the German sentence ‘Aber der Leo säuft’ [But Leo drinks], either the per-
son or the fact that he drinks may be highlighted by positioning a rising-falling
peak pattern around the lexical items ‘Leo’ or ‘säuft’, giving the one or the
other a default sentence accent &2. The rise-fall peak pattern may also span
both items and thus generate default sentence accents &2 on both. To test the
cue value of peak pattern synchronisation with vocal-tract articulation, stimuli
were generated for a perception experiment by systematically shifting a rise-
fall F0 contour through that utterance.
Based on the original stimulus shown in Figure 2.3, nineteen stimuli were
LPC-synthesised (for further details see Kohler 1991a). The original F0 peak
contour was shifted in 30 ms steps, 7 to the left and 11 to the right. In the
Sentence Accent 81
left shift, the rising branch was moved and the falling branch was expanded
between the new maximum position and the old right base point. In the right
shift, the complete peak contour was moved in parallel. Figure 2.4 shows the
peak synchronisations for the 1st, 4th, 5th, 8th, 11th, 13th and 16th stimuli in
the left to right series. The nineteen stimuli entered a standardised perception
experiment, asking subjects which word, ‘Leo’ or ‘säuft’, they perceived as
more accented (for details, see Kohler 1991a). Figure 2.5 presents the results.
Stimuli 1–11 in the series from left to right, where the rising-falling F0 peak
contour is in early, medial or late synchronisation with the word ‘Leo’, and
where a substantial part of the F0 fall occurs in its vowel, were almost unani-
mously judged as having the sentence accent on ‘Leo’. In stimuli 15–19, where
F0 rises into, and then falls in, the vowel of ‘säuft’, this word is almost unan-
imously perceived as accented. Stimuli 12–14 form a transition range, and
stimulus 13 is divided between the judgements, pointing to a two-accent hat
pattern, as it straddles both monosyllabic words, the rise occurring in ‘Leo’,
the fall in ‘säuft’. In the left peak shift the falling branch was ﬂattened to avoid
too long a low F0 trail, which would have generated poor LPC synthesis qual-
ity. Since the precursor to the F0 peak was stretched as a whole in the right
shift, the microprosodic F0 effects were displaced, which inﬂuenced the acous-
tic quality of the synthesised stimuli, and the large F0 inﬂections on the orig-
inal low F0 stretch in stimuli 16–19 also degraded their acoustic quality. But
this did not affect accent perception.
Figure 2.3. Spectrogram, F0 (log scale) and energy traces, and
orthographically annotated word segmentation of the original utterance of
the German sentence ‘Aber der Leo säuft’, with a position of the rise-fall F0
peak pattern in the centre of the accented syllable ‘Leo’. Standard German
speaker (KJK).
82 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
2.3 Sentence Accents in Syntagmatic Prominence Patterns
In 2.2, accent levels &1–3 were determined by local prominences related to
physical properties, especially F0 gliding, in the accented words. But accent
perception is also inﬂuenced by the occurrence of these word-bound properties
in broader syntagmatic prominence patterns. This can be illustrated with the
German sentence ‘Anna kam mit Menne’, the equivalent of ‘Anna came with
Manny’ (see 2.2). The sentence was produced in four versions:
Figure 2.4. Spectrogram with energy trace of LPC resynthesised original
utterance ‘Aber der Leo säuft’, as well as F0 traces (log scale) of the
original (thick line) and of the 1st, 4th and 5th positions of the left F0
shift (thin lines), and the 11th, 13th and 16th positions of the right F0
shift (dotted lines). In the 4th position, the F0 maximum is located at the
transition from [l] to the stressed vowel of ‘Leo’; the 5th position is the
ﬁrst where the F0 maximum is in the vowel. Orthographic annotation,
segmented at word boundaries and at consonant-vowel transition in
‘Leo’.
Sentence Accents in Syntagmatic Prominence Patterns 83
(1) &3Anna &0kam &0mit &1Menne.
(2) &2Anna &0kam &0mit &2Menne.
(3) &2Anna &1kam &0mit &2Menne.
(late low-rising valley contour on ‘Menne’ in all three cases)
(4) &2Anna &0kam &0mit &2Menne.
(early low-rising valley contour on ‘Menne’).
All four utterances sounded as intended, especially as regards the accent level
&1 or &2 on ‘Menne’. Version (2) may oscillate between &2/&1Menne. The
late low-rising valleys were all very similar. An identical rising pattern was
created in all three by replacing the ‘Menne’ sections of (2) and (3) with that
of (1). Original (1) and modiﬁed (2) and (3) are shown in Figures 2.6a,b,c. A
parallel set was then created in the same frames (1)–(3) by replacing their late-
valley ‘Menne’ with the early valley of (4); it is displayed in Figures 2.6d,e,f.
The identical ‘Menne’ stimulus of the original frame (1), spliced into frames
(2)–(3), is perceived as accent level &1 in the utterance of Figure 2.6a, but
as accent level &2 in the utterance of Figure 2.6c, and as oscillating between
Figure 2.5. Identiﬁcation function showing percentage of ‘Leo’ stressed
judgements for nineteen LPC synthesised stimuli of ‘Aber der Leo säuft’,
with F0 peak shift, ordered from left to right. Thirty-one subjects, n = 155 at
each data point.
0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
F0 peak position left-right
Identification of accented word in ‘Aber der Leo säuft.’
%
‘Leo’
accented
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
84 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
&2 and &1 in the utterance of Figure 2.6b. The reason for the different accent
perception of an identical physical stimulus must reside in its embedding in
different prosodic contexts. When ‘kam mit Menne’ is excerpted from each
utterance, ‘Menne’ has the same default accent in all three excerpts. So the dif-
ference must be due to the prominence relation of ‘Menne’ to ‘Anna’. In 2.6a,
‘Anna’ has a high-maximum peak pattern, with F0 falling quickly from 142 Hz
in the accented vowel of ‘Anna’ to 72 Hz in [mɪ] of ‘kam mit’, corresponding
Figure 2.6. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and orthographic word
annotations of the German sentence ‘Anna kam mit Menne’: a original
utterance (1); b, c ‘Menne’ of (1) with late low-rising valley spliced into (2)
and (3); d, e, f ‘Menne’ of (4) with early low-rising valley spliced into (1),
(2) and (3). F0 jump from ‘mit’ to ‘Menne’ was additionally adjusted to a
smooth rise in d (dotted line). Standard German speaker (KJK).
Sentence Accents in Syntagmatic Prominence Patterns 85
to 12 st, followed by glottalisation for [tm]. These are the physical exponents
of a reinforced accent. The rise in ‘Menne’ starts at 79 Hz and moves up to a
maximum of 109 Hz, corresponding to 6 st. The upward gliding is consider-
ably smaller than the preceding downward gliding and consequently has less
prominence-lending power in syntagmatic comparison, which is perceived as
partial deaccentuation. In 2.6c, there is a pitch drop from 113 Hz of the plateau
to 79 Hz at the beginning of the rise (= 6 st), giving comparable prominence
and independent accent status to the rise. The stimulus of Figure 2.6b has an
F0 maximum of 132 Hz, dropping more slowly than in 2.6a to 80 Hz in [m] of
‘kam mit’ (= 8.8 st), and it does not end in glottalisation. The physical param-
eters are the exponents of a default, not a reinforced, accent on ‘Anna’. The
extensions of downward and upward gliding are closer than in 2.6a, and the
accentuation of ‘Menne’ is in between the stimuli of 2.6a,c, but closer to
the latter. Perception oscillates between &2 and &1.
In the early-valley ‘Menne’ of Figures 2.6d, e, f, F0 starts at 80 Hz and moves
up to 120 Hz (= 7 st). This is a higher and more extensive rise than the late-
valley rise in Figures 2.6a, b, c. In 2.6e, the extensions of the upward and the
downward gliding are more similar than in 2.6b, and accentuation is now per-
ceived as a clear &2. The early-valley ‘Menne’ of 2.6f also produces a clear
default accent; like the late-valley ‘Menne’ in 2.6c, it has the same prominence
lending. The early valley in 2.6d reduces the prominence of ‘Menne’, but not
to the same extent as the late valley in 2.6b. There is still a considerable F0
jump up from the end of voicing in ‘mit’ to the beginning of ‘Menne’, which
gives ‘Menne’ more prominence. If this is corrected by synthesising a rise
through ‘mit’, shown by the dotted line in 2.6d, the prominence of ‘Menne’
gets further reduced to partial deaccentuation.
Figure 2.7 provides two natural productions of ‘Anne kam mit Menne’, with
a wide and a narrow low F0 fall in ‘Menne’. In 2.7a, the F0 maximum in
‘Anne’ is at 151 Hz; across ‘kam mit’ it ends at 103 Hz; its onset in ‘Menne’ is
at 117 Hz, its offset at 60 Hz. In this constellation, ‘Menne’ is clearly perceived
as partially deaccented and backgrounded. In 2.7b, the F0 maximum in ‘Anne’
is at 153 Hz; across ‘kam mit’ it ends at 82 Hz; its onset in ‘Menne’ is at 94 Hz,
its offset at 67 Hz. In this acoustic setting, ‘Menne’ is also clearly perceived as
partially deaccented and backgrounded. In both cases, the jump up from the F0
offset in ‘mit’ to the F0 onset in ‘Menne’ are comparable (about 2 st).
The original utterance (plain line in Figure 2.7a) has a continuous F0 fall
through ‘-ne kam’ if the microprosodic lowering into the voiceless stop and
raising out of the strong aspiration is taken into account (see 2.13). This setting
86 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
generates the accentual pattern &2Anne &0kam &0mit &1Menne. When the
F0 contour across ‘kam mit’ is raised, both ‘kam’ and ‘Menne’ move up by one
accent level: &1kam, &2Menne. When it is lowered, the two ﬂanking words
become more prominent: &3Anne &0kam &0mit &2Menne.
‘Menne’ with the larger fall in Figure 2.7a was also spliced into the three
frames of Figures 2.6a,b,c, replacing the ﬁnal rise. Default accent is perceived
in all. In 2.6a and 2.6b, the F0 offset in ‘mit’ around 70 Hz generates a large
jump up to the fall onset of spliced ‘Menne’. The F0 fall in ‘Menne’ is thus
above the threshold for default accentuation in relation to the preceding utter-
ance section. Spliced into 2.6c, the fall in ‘Menne’ forms the falling section of
a hat pattern and is therefore a default accent.
Finally, ‘Menne’ with the smaller fall in Figure 2.7b was spliced into the
three frames of Figure 2.6a,b,c. Now partial deaccentuation occurs in 2.6a and
2.6b. Here the jump up to the lower F0 onset in ‘Menne’ is much smaller than
in the larger fall on ‘Menne’. The F0 fall in ‘Menne’ is below the threshold
for accentuation in relation to the preceding utterance section. In 2.6c, the fall
on ‘Menne’ again forms the falling section of a hat pattern and is therefore a
default accent.
The description of these data relies on observation by a trained phonetician
and an experienced speech analyst. The analysis lacks experimental validation
by large populations of listeners in formal perceptual testing. But the observa-
tional hypotheses can easily be supported or falsiﬁed by future research that
takes the next step in the speech scientist’s contribution to a theory of com-
munication. The data have already demonstrated that the prominence-lending
Figure 2.7. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and orthographic word
annotations of the German sentence ‘Anne kam mit Menne’: a, wide low
F0 fall in ‘Menne’, original utterance (plain line), central F0 section in ‘kam
mit’ raised (dotted line) and lowered (dashed line); b, narrow low F0 fall in
‘Menne’. Standard German speaker (KJK).
Declination, Downstep and Upstep 87
aspect of F0 is complex. It may be implemented by a break in monotonic rising
or falling movement, or by the extension of movement or by the integration
of local, word-bound physical properties in larger prominence patterns. A
perception-based prosodic category is needed that can relate physical parame-
ters, most prominently F0 change, to distinctive salience relations in Informa-
tion Selection and Weighting. This category is the four-level sentence
accentuation of words in syntax and information structures proposed here.
Accent levels are perceived by summing pitch and other signal properties
over variable windows. The ﬁnding that the same physical F0 rise or fall in
different global pitch patterns can change the perception and cognitive pro-
cessing of words between foregrounding and backgrounding presupposes a
separate sentence-accent category, independent of intonation proper, i.e. non-
prominence-lending F0, and of metrics. The concept of accentuation in KIM is
thus different from L-H related pitch accents in AM Phonology.
2.4 Declination, Downstep and Upstep
Phonetic research has proved that, to create equal prominences, successive F0
peaks need to form a descending sequence. This was called declination in the
IPO intonation model (Adriaens 1991, Cohen and ’t Hart 1967), and the term
was taken over generally, among others by AM Phonology, to differentiate it
as a phonetic process from phonological downstep of H tones in the vicinity of
L tones, a feature adopted from African tone languages for intonation analysis
of English and other languages. Kohler (1991a,b) argued against the use of the
term declination for this downscaling of successive, equally prominent peaks.
It was deﬁned on a time basis in the IPO model, and this phonetic deﬁnition
has been retained by all scholars using it, opposing it to phonological prosodic
categories. This means that the F0 downtrend is considered a linear lowering
of successive F0 peaks through an utterance, proportionate with the temporal
distance between peaks, but even the IPO model introduced F0 reset when
utterances were too long and F0 descended unnaturally low in the application
to speech synthesis. The concept of time-based declination has to be rejected
if it can be shown that (a) there are naturally produced data where the same
maxima steps in differently spaced successive peaks are perceived as equal in
prominence, and (b) the application of linear proportionate lowering generates
different pitch levels and prominences in successive peaks.
Figure 2.8 presents stimuli for test criteria (a) and (b). In 2.8a, the naturally
produced German sentences are ‘Die Wähler wählen’ [The male voters vote]
and ‘Die Wählerinnen wählen’ [The female voters vote], each with two default
88 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
accents &2 on ‘Wähler(innen)’ and ‘wählen’. In both sentences, the two peak
contours associated with the two accents have their maxima at 123 Hz and
117 Hz, spaced at 284 ms and 510 ms in the shorter and the longer sentence,
respectively, but they are perceived as the same sequence of pitch levels and
prominences. Moreover, the low left base points of the ﬁrst and the second
peak are also very similar, at 86 Hz/82 Hz and at 100 Hz/97 Hz, and so are
the right base points of the second peak, at 83 Hz/85 Hz, before the ﬁnal low
trailing off. In Figure 2.8b, the pitch contours in the two sentences have been
stylised, using Praat, as prototypical medial peak sequences (see 2.7), accord-
ing to the model in Kohler (1991b). In both sentences, the ﬁrst peak maximum
of 125 Hz is at 60% of the duration of the accented vowel in ‘Wähler(innen)’,
the second peak maximum of 117 Hz at the same duration ratio in the accented
vowel of ‘wählen’, an interval of 1.1 st. The ﬁrst left base point (90 Hz) is
at the onset of the initial consonant of the accented syllable, the right base
Figure 2.8. Spectrograms, F0 (log scale, plain lines) and energy traces
(dotted lines), syllabic segmentations and transcriptions of the German
sentences ‘Die Wähler(innen) wählen’: a, natural production; b, resynthesis
with stylised F0 patterns. The dashed F0 lines represent the time-based F0
declination of the shorter sentence adjusted to the longer sentence, and vice
versa. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
Declination, Downstep and Upstep 89
point of the second peak (80 Hz) 120 ms after the maximum. The inter-peak
base point (102 Hz) is at the onset of the initial consonant of ‘wählen’, which
is 2.4 st below the following maximum. The psola synthesis with these val-
ues sounds perfectly natural, with comparable pitch levels and prominences
in both sentences, irrespective of the difference of peak maxima spacing of
420 ms versus 730 ms.
The dashed F0 contours in Figure 2.8b show the time-based F0 adjustments
of the two maxima and the inter-peak base point in:
(1) ‘Die Wähler wählen’,
on the basis of stylised ‘Die Wählerinnen wählen’ with longer maximum
spacing,
(2) ‘Die Wählerinnen wählen’,
on the basis of stylised ‘Die Wähler wählen’ with shorter maximum
spacing.
In (1) the interval of 1.1 st between the two maxima is scaled down with
the proportion of the shorter to the longer distance, i.e. 1.1*420/730 = 0.63 st,
which sets the second peak maximum at 121 Hz, and the inter-peak base point
2.4 st down at 105 Hz. In (2), the interval is scaled up with the reversed pro-
portion, i.e. 1.1*730/430 = 1.91 st, which sets the second peak maximum at
112 Hz, and the inter-peak base point 2.4 st down at 98 Hz. When rescaled
‘Die Wähler wählen’ is auditorily compared with stylised ‘Die Wählerinnen
wählen’ of Figure 2.8b, the succession of peaks no longer sounds the same in
the two sentences: ‘wählen’ in ‘Die Wähler wählen’ is higher in pitch, getting
more closely linked with the ﬁrst peak, and therefore has its prominence per-
ceptually reduced. On the other hand, when rescaled ‘Die Wählerinnen wählen’
is auditorily compared with stylised ‘Die Wähler wählen’ of Figure 2.8b,
the opposite happens: ‘wählen’ in ‘Die Wählerinnen wählen’ is lower in pitch,
becoming more independent from the ﬁrst peak, and thus has its prominence
perceptually increased.
The phenomenon we are dealing with here is not a phonetic, as against a
phonological, feature but is a distinctively applied mechanism to create equal
prominences irrespective of the time that elapses between peaks. The F0
downtrend to safeguard perceptual prominence equality of successive peaks
has a functional, not a temporal, basis; I therefore use the category of down-
step to refer to it. Perception orientates itself at structurally positioned and
downstepped peaks, not at time-based declination. Furthermore, in natural
speech production, especially in spontaneous interaction, downstep may be
interrupted and restarted with an upstep at any structural point to reﬂect the
90 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
information weighting and phrasing speakers want to transmit to listeners. It is
symbolised by | in &|2 or &|3.
Figure 2.9 provides an example of a long string of Information
Selection and Weighting integrated into the German sentence:
&0Der &2alleinlebende &2Rentner &0in &|2Wohnung &1Nummer
&2Neun &0ist &|2heute &0am &1frühen &2Morgen &0im &2Alter
&0von &|3einundneunzig &2Jahren &0an &0einem &|2schweren
&2Herzinfarkt &2gestorben.
[The pensioner living on his own in ﬂat number 9 died of a massive heart
attack early this morning at the age of 91.]
Figure 2.9. Spectrograms, F0 (log scale, plain lines) and energy traces
(dotted lines), accent-unit segmentations and orthographic annotations
of the German long complex single-sentence syntactic structure
‘Der alleinlebende Rentner in Wohnung Nummer Neun ist heute am
frühen Morgen im Alter von einundneunzig Jahren an einem schweren
Herzinfarkt gestorben’, in two approximately equal successive time-
windows. F0 resets for selecting and weighting the information units
‘alleinlebende Rentner’, ‘Wohnung Nr. 9’, ‘heute am frühen Morgen’,
‘91 Jahren’, ‘schweren Herzinfarkt gestorben’. Standard German, male
speaker (KJK).
Declination, Downstep and Upstep 91
It has a complex syntactic structure of:
subject phrase:
[[Der alleinlebende] (Rentner) [in Wohnung Nummer 9]],
with (Rentner) as the head, and two qualiﬁers in the form of further structured
adjectival and prepositional phrases, and:
predicate phrase
[(ist) [[heute] [am frühen Morgen]] [im Alter [von 91 Jahren]] [an einem
schweren Herzinfarkt] (gestorben)].
with (ist) … (gestorben) as the head, and an adverbial and three further struc-
tured prepositional phrases as qualiﬁers.
Although constructed, the sentence is perfectly natural and could be part
of a police report. When it is read out competently following its information
structure, rather than its syntactic grouping, one way is to realise the sentence
with a succession of downstepped accent sequences in accordance with the
number of information units to be transmitted, and to mark the beginning of
these prosodic phrases solely by F0 upstep above, or at least at, the level of
the preceding accent. In Figure 2.9, the speaker marks ﬁve information units
in this downstep-upstep way: ‘alleinlebende Rentner’ [pensioner living on his
own] (2 downstepped accents), ‘Wohnung Nr. 9’ [ﬂat no. 9] (2 downstepped
accents ‘Wohnung’ and ‘9’), ‘heute am frühen Morgen’ [today early in the
morning] (2 downstepped accents ‘heute’ and ‘Morgen’), ‘91 Jahren’ [91
years] (2 downstepped accents), ‘schweren Herzinfarkt gestorben’ [massive
heart attack died] (3 downstepped accents, the ﬁrst two forming a hat pattern).
None of the upsteps in this example reach the F0 level of the utterance-initial
accent; the degree of upstep varies with the relative importance attached to
each information unit, which is greatest for ‘91’, preceded and followed by
downward trends of F0 upsteps.
The ﬁrst, unstressed syllable of ‘alleinlebende’ is part of the up-beat,
together with ‘Der’, but the left accent segmentation point was uniformly put
at the word boundary, similarly in ‘gestorben’, where the accent is docked at
the stressed, second syllable. The unaccented function words ‘in’ (preposition
in accent unit 2), ‘ist’ (auxiliary verb in accent unit 4), ‘im’, ‘von’ (prepositions
in accent units 6 and 7) and ‘an einem’ (preposition and indeﬁnite article in
accent unit 9) are integrated prosodically in the F0 contours of their preced-
ing accents, with which they form accent units, although there is a syntactic,
but prosodically unmarked boundary before them. This example shows that
prosodic phrasing following information structure may diverge from syntactic
grouping, and upsteps in prosodic phrasing may cut across information units.
92 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
‘Alter von’ is prosodically part of the preceding downstep sequence ‘heute
am frühen Morgen’, resulting in a sequence of three downstepped accents,
in spite of forming an information unit together with ‘91 Jahren’. If syntactic
boundaries are signalled by prosodic phrase boundaries in addition to infor-
mation selecting upstep, this is achieved (1) by syllabic lengthening before the
syntactic boundary, (2) by valley or combined peak-valley, instead of simple
peak patterns (see 2.7) and (3) by pausing, with increasing boundary strength
in combinations of (1) and (3) (see 2.12).
The interpretation of the pitch patterns in Figure 2.9 has to take micropro-
sodic effects into account. Glottalisation of word-initial vowels lowers the
analysed F0 trace drastically or cuts it out altogether; glottis opening into
voiceless fricatives lowers the frequency of vocal fold vibration, and glottal
closing out of voiceless obstruents raises it. This is shown very clearly in the F0
trace for ‘Herzinfarkt gestorben’. The macroprosodic falling F0 contour in the
double-accent hat pattern of ‘schweren Herzinfarkt’ is microprosodically low-
ered preceding the syllable ‘-farkt’, and then raised at voice onset, disturbing
the continuous fall. But accent perception is not inﬂuenced by this disturbance:
‘-farkt’ is not accented. F0 is raised again after the voiceless obstruents of the
syllables ‘ge-’ and ‘-stor-’. Macroprosodically, ‘ge-’ represents the low-level
tail of the preceding accent contour, ‘-storben’ a new accent contour with an F0
maximum above the tail and below the maximum of the preceding accent con-
tour on ‘Herzinfarkt’, so ‘gestorben’ is perceived as accented but not upstepped.
A further possibility of rendering this German sentence is to mark neither
information nor syntactic structure prosodically but to realise the twelve accent
units as a continuous sequence of downsteps, i.e. a purely rhythmic structure of
feet, which may, for example, be produced by a police ofﬁcer monotonously
reading out a prepared statement at a press conference. Figure 2.10 illustrates
this. The accent of ‘91’ moves out of this downstep sequence, but this rein-
forces the accent rather than marking an information structure, so it is &3. The
microprosodic rise of the F0 onset in the syllable ‘-stor-’ does not produce an
upstep; ‘gestorben’ remains in the downstepped sequence macroprosodically
and is perceived with equal prominence as the preceding accent.
Figure 2.10 also supports the view that pitch in peak contours points down-
wards in the individual peak pattern and, by default, globally in peak sequences.
If this global downward trend is broken by setting a peak maximum at the level
of the preceding maximum or above it, the word associated with this upstep
is made more prominent. There is a broad margin of variability in the steep-
ness of the downward trend to cope with speech rate, overall volume and atti-
tudes. As long as the downward trend is not broken, the perceptual prominence
Declination, Downstep and Upstep 93
relations between successive peaks remain stable within the global frame of
utterance prominence. The longer the downstepped sequence, the more monot-
onous, routine-like and dull speech sounds, and since this very simple prosodic
structuring cannot reﬂect complex content structure adequately, it interferes
with intelligibility. Repetitive downstep patterns are typical of inexperienced
readers and public announcers, for example at airports, on planes or on trains,
who reel off routine tasks without giving much thought to effective informa-
tion transmission.
Valley contours, on the other hand, point upwards, in the individual valley
pattern and globally in valley sequences. If, for instance in counting, the min-
ima of successive valleys follow an upward trend, their prominences remain
stable. But if the upward movement is broken by the valley minima returning
to a low position, extra prominence is put on the words associated with the
downstep. Thus downstep as found in peak sequences for perceptual promi-
nence equality does not apply to valleys.
Figure 2.10. Spectrograms, F0 (log scale, plain lines) and energy traces
(dotted lines), accent-unit segmentation and orthographic annotation of
the same German sentence as in Figure 2.9, again in two approximately
equal successive time-windows, but spoken in a continuous sequence of
downsteps. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
94 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
What has been said about downstep and upstep in German also applies to
English and all the Germanic languages. It is most likely a language universal
of pitch perception. The question simply is as to how individual languages
make use of global downstep peak and upstep valley sequences. The former is
characteristic of the Germanic languages, the latter of French.
2.5 Lexical Stress
There are languages which, in addition to sentence accent, have the category of
lexical stress, e.g. a 2×2 binary syllable feature of the phonology of the word
in English and German:
Label (put before syllable nucleus) Prosodic category
' stressed – primary
" stressed – secondary
(unmarked) unstressed
stressed is an abstract phonological position marker in the syllable chain of
words and compounds where sentence accents dock by default. The position
is either ﬁxed (on the ﬁrst syllable in Czech, or the penultimate in Polish), or
in part conditioned morphologically in English and German, or free in Rus-
sian. In English and German, stressed may be either primary or secondary,
e.g. ‘b'uttercup’ [ﬂower] versus ‘b'utter-c''up’ [butter dish], and ‘R'ücksicht’
[consideration] versus ‘R'ück-s''icht’ [view to the back]. They are formal com-
pounds, but only the second item in each pair is also a functional compound;
the other is functionally a simplex word. Following from this functional differ-
ence the pairs are distinguished by ‘cup’ and ‘sicht’ being unstressed or having
secondary stress, with consequences on the timing of the words in sentence-
accent frames. Lexical stress does not have physical exponents by itself, but
only receives them through one of the sentence-accent levels docking at the
stress-place markers. The combination of stress-place marker and sentence-
accent level determines the temporal and spectral manifestations of vowels
and consonants in the speciﬁed syllable, as well as prominence-related F0 and
energy patterns at the marked place in a syllable chain. Most of the investiga-
tions into the hierarchy of physical properties of stress since Fry (1955, 1958,
1965) actually deal with accent manifestations in word citation.
In English and German, there is also a distinction between double and sin-
gle lexical stress, besides primary and secondary, to differentiate simplex and
compound words, as well as syntagmas, cf. Kingdon (1965: §70; §50) for Eng-
lish: m'oving v''an [removal van], m'oving v'an [van in motion]; st'onebl'ind
Lexical Stress 95
(_c'old, _d'ead, _d'eaf), d'irtch'eap (double stress: the ﬁrst word intensiﬁes
the meaning of the second); and Kohler (1995: pp. 114ff, 186ff) for German:
bl'ut''arm [anaemic], bl'ut'arm – st'einr'eich [very poor/rich] (double stress:
the ﬁrst word intensiﬁes the meaning of the second, as in English).
In the West Germanic languages, lexical stresses mark low-level syntag-
matic structures, binding syllables in words, words in compounds and in syn-
tactic constructions. Lexical stress indexes a speciﬁc syllable of a word that
receives the physical manifestations of accentuation when the word is accented
in an utterance. The lexical stress position is stable, although there may be
differences between dialectal varieties, and stress patterns may be restructured
for rhythmical reasons. This is found in English words with double stress, e.g.
numerals in ‘_t'een’ or words like ‘pr'inc'ess’, ‘P'iccad'illy’. In the context of
another lexical stress in an immediately preceding or following word, forming
a close syntagma with the double-stress word, stress is reorganised into a new
double-stress pattern at the initial and the ﬁnal stress position of the syntagma,
creating regular 2-beat rhythmical prominence proﬁles: ‘j'ust eight'een’,
‘'eighteen y'ears’, or ‘a ‘y'oung princ'ess’, ‘Pr'incess 'Anne’. The stressed syl-
lables need not be contiguous for this to apply: ‘a r'oyal princ'ess’, ‘Pr'incess
Vict'oria’, ‘cl'ose to Piccad'illy’, ‘P'iccadilly C'ircus’. The latter examples
speak against the concept of stress clash (e.g. Liberman and Prince 1977),
which refers to the reduction of two contiguous stresses to a single stress under
rhythmical conditions. In the quoted examples, the stresses are not contiguous,
but reduction occurs nevertheless, i.e. this is phonological reorganisation of
double stress at the word level in cohesive syntagmatic structures, irrespective
of stress contiguity.
Different from the West Germanic languages, French is a language without
lexical stress. The word is integrated into the phrase prosodically and segmen-
tally: the last non-schwa syllable of the prosodic phrase receives an accent, and
words lose their phonological identity in the phrase, leading to a rich source of
puns in ‘mots phonétiques’. Tone languages (contour-tone Mandarin, register-
tone Yoruba) have lexical tone instead of lexical stress as the prosodic feature
of word phonology, and ﬁnally, there are languages (Swedish, Norwegian)
where certain types of lexically stressed syllables are additionally marked by
distinctive tonal accent.
This handling of accent and stress in KIM differs from prosody modelling
in AM Phonology. There, ﬁrstly, accents are linked to pitch (pitch accent) as
part of intonational phonology, thus mixing two prosodic variables, accentua-
tion and intonation. Moreover, the theory of pitch accents was worked out on
the basis of English and, in view of the discussion above, cannot be applied to
96 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
French, although it has been attempted (Jun and Fougeron 2002). Secondly,
stress patterns in words and sentences enter the prosody of, e.g., English pho-
nology as relative prominence patterns deﬁned in relation to phrase structure
and aligned with the metrical grid of linguistic rhythm in Metrical Phonol-
ogy (Liberman and Prince 1977). This concept of stress goes back, in the last
resort, to the traditional view of a multi-graded feature of prominence, and
is a theoretical reorientation of the anchoring of perceptual stress in phrase
structure and of its formal representation by the transformational cycle in Gen-
erative Phonology (Chomsky and Halle 1968). In Metrical Phonology, how-
ever, relative prominence is no longer represented in terms of some feature
of the vowel or syllable, but is deﬁned on constituents as s(trong)w(eak) or
w(eak)s(trong) relations. Liberman and Prince thus recognised the need for a
stress category in English in addition to pitch accents, but, following the tra-
dition of the structuralists and the generative phonologists, they extended the
notion of stress beyond the word to the phrase level. This was already criticised
by Bolinger (1986). In KIM, stress is treated as a primary or secondary place
marker in simplex and compound word phonology for the potential docking
of sentence accents. The physical manifestation of sentence-accent level at
this stress position marker, in association with separately selected intonation
patterns, can account for all and only the functionally relevant prominence
relations in utterances in English and German, or any other stress language.
No readjustment rules are necessary to level out over-differentiated relative
prominence patterns generated by descriptive rules from elaborate phrase con-
structions. Stress, accent and intonation are derived from speech and language
functions and are part of a dynamic model of speech communication instead.
German has minimal verb pairs with either preﬁx- or stem-stress, which can
occur in the same sentence frame, e.g. ‘Er wird’s wohl umlagern’, with stress
either on the preﬁx ‘um-’ [ʊm], meaning ‘verlagern’ [I suppose he will relocate
it], or on ‘-la-’ [laː], meaning ‘belagern’ [I suppose he will surround it]. This
allows us to apply the same peak-shift paradigm that was used to determine
the prosodic manifestations of sentence accents in syntagmatic structures (see
2.2) to different stress positions in word pairs that may be represented with
the same segmental phonology. This was the basis for an experimental exam-
ination of the relative ranking of F0 change and syllable-duration ratio in the
signalling of sentence accent in different lexical stress positions in German
(Kohler 1987a, 1990a, 1991b). The results gave an important insight into the
signalling of lexical stress by F0 peak position and syllable duration, as well
as into accent and intonation interaction. They are therefore discussed here in
some detail.
Experiments in Lexical Stress Perception in German 97
2.6 Experiments in Lexical Stress Perception in German
2.6.1 Test Construction
Repeated utterances of the sentence pair ‘Er wird’s wohl umlagern’ were ana-
lysed, and one pair was selected for experimentation: (a) with the accent on the
stressed syllable ‘um-’ and a medial-to-late intonation peak (see 2.7) on this
syllable; (b) with the accent on the stressed syllable ‘-la-’ and an early intonation
peak (see 2.7), which is actually located in the syllable ‘um-’. Figures 2.11a,b
present the spectrograms together with F0 displays. The F0 peak positions in the
two utterances are practically identical as regards their relations to the syllable
structures of ‘umlagern’: they occur at approximately the same time distance
just before the beginning of [l]. The utterances differ in the shapes of the F0
peak contours and in the syllable durations. In the utterance with stem-stress in
Figure 2.11b, the post-peak F0 descent is more gradual, and the syllable ‘um-’ is
shorter (135 ms in Figure 2.11b versus 222 ms in Figure 2.11a). F0 rises faster,
Figure 2.11. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and orthographic
segmentations of words and of the ‘um-’ syllable in the German sentence
‘Er wird’s wohl umlagern’: original stimuli a, preﬁx-stress with medial-to-
late peak; b, stem-stress with early peak; derived stimuli with exchanged
and time-warped F0 contours of the originals c, stem F0 on preﬁx-word; d,
preﬁx F0 on stem-word. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
98 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
starting at a structurally earlier point (beginning of the [l] in ‘wohl’, rather than
at the ‘um-’ syllable onset of preﬁx-stress). The ‘-la-’ syllables in the stem and
preﬁx-stress words, on the other hand, have very similar durations (268 ms in
Figure 2.11b versus 258 ms in Figure 2.11a). Two further stimuli were generated
by LPC synthesis (see Kohler 1990a, 1991a) from the ones in Figures 2.11a,b
by exchanging the F0 contours. They are shown in Figures 2.11c,d. These four
stimuli (ST1 – ST4) were the basis for generating four series of F0 peak shifts
(PI – P4):
• P1 – a series of 12: 6 left shifts (parallel transposition of the left branch
and time expansion of the right branch), and 5 complete parallel right
shifts, of 30 ms each in the utterance of Figure 2.11a
• P2 – a series of 9: 8 complete parallel left shifts of 30 ms each in the
utterance of Figure 2.11b
• P3 – a series of 12 in the utterance of Figure 2.11c, following the
procedure in P1
• P4 – a series of 9 in the utterance of Figure 2.11d, following the pro-
cedure in P2.
P1 and P3 are based on the original preﬁx-stress, P4 and P2 on the origi-
nal stem-stress utterance, and in each pairing the series form an opposition
between more abruptly and more slowly falling F0 peak contours. From these
four sets of stimuli two test tapes were compiled: Test I combined the more
sharply falling sets P1 and P4, Test II the slowly falling sets P2 and P3. Sub-
jects were asked to identify the stimuli with the meanings of either ‘belagern’
(stem-stress) or ‘verlagern’ (preﬁx-stress).
2.6.2 Results
Figures 2.12 and 2.13 present the data of the two identiﬁcation tests for the
original preﬁx and stem-stress series, respectively, each with slow and more
sharply falling peak contours. In the shift of the more sharply falling F0 peak
contour through the original preﬁx-stress utterance (series P1) there is a clear
change from preﬁx- to stem-stress, in spite of the duration of ‘um-’ pointing
to the former. F0 can thus override duration, particularly since the duration
of unstressed ‘-la-’ in the original utterance is very close to its duration under
stress. In stimulus 10, which is the ﬁrst in the ordering from 1 to 12 to yield an
unequivocal stem-stress categorisation with over 80% responses, the F0 peak
position is 30 ms into the vowel of the syllable ‘-la-’. That the change from
one stress position to the other is gradual rather than categorical may be due to
a residue of the duration cue. There may also be some interaction between the
Experiments in Lexical Stress Perception in German 99
accent and intonation functions of F0 because the F0 peak assumes positions
before the beginning of the syllable nucleus of ‘-la-’ that can simultaneously
function as the medial-to-late intonation peak in stressed ‘um-’ and as the early
intonation peak in stressed ‘-la-’. The relevance of this intonation interference
with accent is conﬁrmed by the ﬁnding that when the more slowly falling F0
peak is substituted (series P3), the preﬁx-stress category is not represented so
Figure 2.12. Percentage of preﬁx-stress responses for ‘umlagern’
in the series of twelve F0 peak-shift positions (from left to right) in the
original preﬁx-stress utterance of ‘Er wird’s wohl 'umlagern’ (no. 7 is
approximately the naturally produced original peak position). Plain
line = P I, sharply falling peak contour, Figure 2.11a (n = 185 at each
data point); broken line = P3, slowly falling peak contour, Figure 2.11c
(n = 80 at each data point).
100
prefix_ori-F0 prefix_stem-F0
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
F0 peak position left-right
Stress identification in ‘umlagern’
F0 peak shift in orig. prefix-word
%
prefix
stress
100 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
clearly: in this case, the interpretation of an early intonation peak for stem-
stress is never completely ruled out.
When the F0 peak contour is shifted through the original stem-stress
utterance (series P2) there is no change of stress category (Figure 2.13): the
Figure 2.13. Percentage of preﬁx-stress responses for ‘umlagern’ in the
series of nine F0 peak-shift positions (from left to right) in the original
stem-stress utterance ‘Er wird’s wohl uml'agern’ (no. 9 approximately
original peak position). Plain line = P2, slowly falling peak contour, Figure
2.11b (n = 80 at each data point), broken line = P4, sharply falling peak
contour, Figure 2.11d (n = 185 at each data point), dotted line = P4´, sharply
falling peak contour and durations of preﬁx-stress (n = 170 at each data
point).
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
F0 peak position left-right
Stress identification in ‘umlagern’
F0 peak shift in orig. stem-word
%
prefix
stress
stem_ori-F0 stem_pref-F0 stem_pref-F0-dur
Experiments in Lexical Stress Perception in German 101
responses remain predominantly in favour of stem-stress. In this case, F0
cannot override the duration cue because ‘um-’ is too short in relation to ‘-la-’
to signal initial stress. There is some effect of F0 when the more sharply falling
F0 peak (series P4) occurs within the syllable ‘um-’. In stimuli 1 to 5, the F0
peak is shifted leftward into the preceding syllable ‘wohl’, but it stays within
the boundaries of the preﬁx syllable ‘um-’ in stimuli 6 to 8; there are up to
30% judgements of preﬁx-stress. This suggests that the overriding salience of
duration for preﬁx-stress perception is checked when the characteristic sharply
falling contour occurs in the preﬁx syllable and is more narrowly limited to it.
It supports recognition of a medial-to-late peak on ‘um-’, rather than an early
peak on the following ‘-la’. This is prevented in series P2, due to the wider
span of the F0 peak descent.
Two conclusions may be drawn from the results:
• An F0 peak shift by itself is sufﬁcient to bring about a clear change
from one stress position to another, provided the duration of the
stressed-syllable-to-be towards which the F0 peak is shifted is not too
short; but even when it is, there is a residual F0 effect.
• The intonation function of F0 interferes with its accent function if
it is not supported by duration. This shows up in a gradual change
between stress positions in abutting syllables where an ambiguity can
arise between a medial-to-late intonation peak in one syllable and
an early intonation peak related to a subsequent one. This interac-
tion gets stronger when the shape of the F0 peak contour is the more
slowly falling one.
The importance of duration for stress perception was further investigated in
an experiment with a modiﬁed peak series P4´. A new base stimulus ST4´ was
generated by adjusting the durations of the syllable ‘um-’ and of the vowel in
the syllable ‘-la-’ of base stimulus ST4 to the same values of base stimulus STl.
By repeating periods in [ʊm] and deleting some in [aː], [ʊ] was lengthened
from 70 ms to 117 ms, [m] from 65 ms to 105 ms and [aː] reduced from 210
ms to 189 ms. Then the F0 contour of base stimulus ST1 (see Figure 2.11d)
was transferred – sound segment by sound segment – to the modiﬁed base
stimulus ST4´. Series P4´ was generated by shifting the F0 peak to the left as
for P4. The ﬁrst seven stimuli of P1 and the last seven of P4´ occupy the same
ranges of F0 peak positions, and have very similar segment durations ([ʊm]
and [aː] being identical in both) and comparable F0 contours, but they differ in
the base stimuli, which are either the original preﬁx-stress utterance in P1 or
the original stem-stress utterance in P4´ with spectral and energy differences.
102 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
The hypothesis was that the change of segment durations in P4´ versus P4 is
sufﬁcient to reverse judgement from stem-stress to preﬁx-stress in all cases
of the series, resulting in similar response functions for stimuli 1–7 of P1 and
for stimuli 3–9 of P4´. This result will also show the low relevance of spectral
and energy features in German stress perception in these prosodic frames. The
dotted line in Figure 2.13 conﬁrms this hypothesis.
In a later experiment (see Kohler 2012 for details), the effect of duration
was examined in different F0 frames in the German utterances ‘Wir treffen
uns &2regelmäßig beim &1K'affee/&1Caf 'é dort an der &1/&2Ecke’ [We
&2regularly meet for &1coffee/at the &1café on the &1/&2corner]. There
is a default accent &2 on ‘regelmäßig’; the test items ‘K'affee/Caf 'é’, with
lexical stress on the ﬁrst or second syllable, respectively, are partially deac-
cented &1. They occur either in a low F0 tail, with partial deaccentuation
also of the sentence-ﬁnal word ‘Ecke’, or in a high F0 plateau, spanning
‘regelmäßig beim K'affee/Caf 'é dort an der’, followed by an F0 fall for
default accent &2Ecke. These prosodic frames exclude critical F0 change
on the test items. Vowel duration was manipulated in a complementary
fashion across the two syllables in ﬁve steps, spanning the continuum from
initial to ﬁnal stress in each word and in each frame. The different spectral
properties of the stressed and unstressed vowels in the original productions
of ‘Kaffee’ [k'afeˑ] and ‘Café’ [kaf'eː] were an additional variable besides
duration in this experiment. Vowel duration, intervocalic fricative duration
and vowel quality turned out to be strong signiﬁcant main effects in shaping
the stress response proﬁles for German ‘Kaffee’ versus ‘Café’ along the
duration scale, but there are only marginal effects of the prosodic frame on
stress perception. These data show that the rank scale of acoustic properties
in lexical stress perception, descending from F0 to duration to vowel qual-
ity to energy, which was ﬁrst set up for English by Fry (1955, 1958, 1965),
needs to take prosodic settings into account. As F0 on test items is levelled
in a low tail or a high-plateau hat pattern, F0 itself is a minor cue in lexi-
cal stress perception; on the other hand, vowel quality becomes important,
further enhanced by the duration/strength of an intervocalic consonant. The
combined cue force of these two parameters can even outweigh the effect
of vowel duration.
2.7 Intonation
Critical F0 change is one of the prominence-lending variables in the signalling
of sentence accent (2.1, 2.2). But the essential signalling power of F0 is to
Intonation 103
relate speciﬁc contour aspects to intonation. At sentence-accent levels &1–3,
functionally determined pitch patterns are selected from a system of distinctive
contrasts. Each contour is deﬁned by two aspects: (a) the direction of pitch
movement and its time course to the next sentence accent or a phrase bound-
ary, and (b) the synchronisation of pitch maxima or minima of these contours
with the sentence-accented word, and (in English or German) the lexical-stress
syllable. Here are the four direction categories and the symbolisations of their
pitch movements:
Label Prosodic category
&2./1./0. peak
&,/&? valley: low or high rising
&.,/&.? peak-valley: low or high rising
&- &0. level
The symbol is put before the next accent or a PhrasinG marker [&PG]
(see 2.12).
A rising-falling-rising peak-valley pitch pattern in English ‘Yes &., &PG’,
expressing reserved agreement, is a global intonation unit in contrast with a
rising-falling peak pattern ‘Yes &2. &PG’ for decided agreement, or with a
rising valley pattern, either a low rise ‘Yes &, &PG’, meaning ‘I agree, carry
on’, or a high rise ‘Yes &? &PG’, meaning ‘really? is that so?’, or ﬁnally with
a level pitch pattern ‘&-Yes &0. &PG’, expressing hesitation or indecision.
Peak patterns differ in the extent of the fall that follows the rise: a fall to the
speaker’s low pitch range &2. &PG, a small drop to a middle range &1. &PG
or levelling out at high pitch in &0. &PG.
There are different synchronisations of the F0 time courses of the four into-
nation patterns with vocal-tract timing of accented words. The synchronisation
symbols are put after the accent marker before the word. In level patterns, there
can only be one synchronisation category, symbolised as &-, with one of the
accentlevels&1–3.PeakpatternssynchronisetheirF0maximumwithaccented-
vowel onset in three different ways:
Label Prosodic category
&3)/&2)/&1) early (fall begins at or before accented-vowel onset)
&3^/&2^/&1^ medial (central rise-fall in the accented vowel)
&3(/&2(/&1( late (late fall in the accented vowel, or in a following
syllable, depending on timing constraints,
preceded by extensive rise)
These synchronisations also apply to peak-valley patterns.
The space between medial and late synchronisation forms a continuum
of increasing low-high F0 movement in time and frequency; the speaker
104 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
signals scalar argumentative weighting of information contained in the accented
word. Near the medial end of this continuum, argumentation simply gives the
information a newness value. This new value is contrasted implicitly with an
old one as synchronisation shifts to later positions; modal particles such as ‘ja’,
‘doch’, ‘aber’, in German, may make this contrast verbally explicit. Near the
late end, Argumentation turns into the expression of unexpectedness. Since
these are three quite different types of Argumentation weighting, a medial-
to-late category has been added to the KIM system of synchronisations, with
the PROLAB notation &^-(.
Valley patterns synchronise their F0 minimum with accented-vowel onset
in two different ways:
Label Prosodic category
&3]/&2]/&1] early (rise begins at or before accented-vowel onset)
&3[/&2[/&1[ late (rise begins in the accented vowel)
The different synchronisations are perceptually distinctive (see 2.8).
Distinctive phonological synchronisation categories are different from varia-
tion in phonetic alignment of signiﬁcant points of F0 contours in syllables, for
example in the comparison of synchronisation categories across languages.
Accent-synchronised intonation movements are produced and perceived
holistically and are rooted as such in the semantics and pragmatics of differ-
ent communicative functions. Some of these functions will be discussed in
Chapters 3–6.
The symbolisation of pitch movement and synchronisation of intonation
patterns can now be added to the prosodic annotation of the examples in Fig-
ures 2.1–2.4, 2.6–2.11. By convention sequences of peak contours &2)/^/( are
downstepped, only upstep is marked, by &|2. Downstep also affects the falling
pitch movement &1. or &2.
2.1a &2]Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &0H'amburg&? &PG
&2]Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &, &1[H'amburg &? &PG
&2]Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &, &2[H'amburg &? &PG
2.1b &2)/(Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &0H'amburg &2. &PG
&2)/(Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &2. &1^H'amburg &2. &PG
&2)/(Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &2. &2^H'amburg &2. &PG
Although the direction marker &2. is, by convention, put before the next
accent marker or a phrase boundary, the intervening &0 accents imply,
again by convention, that the low F0 fall of a peak contour occurs close to
the synchronisation syllable. After this, the low fall F0 trails off, lowering
slightly, to the phrase boundary if there is no intervening accent.
Intonation 105
2.2a &2(Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis … &2. &PG
2.2b &0Wie &2(weit &0ist &0es &0bis … &2. &PG
2.2c &2(Wie &0. &2)weit &0ist &0es &0bis … &2. &PG
2.2d &2(Wie &2. &|2(weit &0ist &0es &0bis … &2. &PG
2.3 &0Aber &0der &2^Leo &0säuft &2. &PG
2.4 &0Aber &0der &2)/^/)Leo &0säuft &2. &PG
&0Aber &0der &2^/(Leo &0. &2)säuft &2. &PG
&0Aber &0der &0Leo &2)/^/(säuft &2. &PG
2.6a &3^'Anna &0kam &0mit &2. &1[M'enne &, &PG
2.6b &2^'Anna &0kam &0mit &2. &2[M'enne &, &PG
2.6c &2^'Anna &0. &1^kam &0mit &2. &2[M'enne &, &PG
2.6d &3^'Anna &0kam &0mit &2. &1]M'enne &, &PG
2.6e &2^'Anna &0kam &0mit &2. &2]M'enne &, &PG
2.6f &2^'Anna &0. &1^kam &0mit &0. &2]M'enne &, &PG
2.7a &2^'Anne &0kam &0mit &1. &1^M'enne &2. &PG
&2^'Anne &0. &1^kam &0mit &0. &2^M'enne &2. &PG
&3^'Anne &0kam &0mit &2. &2^M'enne &2. &PG
2.7b &3^'Anne &0kam &0mit &2. &1^M'enne &2. &PG
2.8 &0Die &2^W'ähler(innen) &1. &2^w'ählen &2. &PG
2.9 &0Der &2^-(all'einlebende &1. &2^-(R'entner &0in &1. &|2^W'ohnung
&0. &1)N'ummer &2. &2^-(neun &0ist &2. &|2^h'eute &0am &0frühen
&1. &2(M'orgen &0im &1. &2^'Alter &0von &2. &|3^-('einundneunzig
&1. &2(J'ahren &0an &0einem &2. &|2^schw'eren &0. &2)H'erzinfarkt
&2. &2^gest'orben &2. &PG
2.10 &0Der &2^-(all'einlebende &1. &2^-(R'entner &0in &1. &2^W'ohnung
&0. &1)N'ummer &1. &2^-(neun &0ist &2. &2^h'eute &0am &0frühen
&1. &2(M'orgen &0im &1. &2^'Alter &0von &2. &|2^'einundneunzig
&1. &2(J'ahren &0an &0einem &2. &2^schw'eren &0. &2)H'erzinfarkt
&2. &2^gest'orben &2. &PG
2.11a &0Er &0wird’s &0wohl &2^-('umlagern &2. &PG
2.11b &0Er &0wird’s &0wohl &2)uml'agern &2. &PG
KIM conceptualises observable global peak, valley, combined peak-valley
and level F0 patterns as unitary prosodic categories, linked to the category
of sentence accents and consisting of features of movement direction and of
synchronisation with articulation. The pitch-accent concept of AM Phonology
separates the feature of movement direction and attributes it to the categories
of phrase accent and boundary tone. This means that the same type of peak
106 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
contours are categorised differently in phrase-internal and phrase-ﬁnal posi-
tions. For example, in GToBI representation of
&0Die &2^W'ähler &2. &2^w'ählen&2. &PG
Die L+H*Wähler L+H*wählen L-L%
(cf. Grice and Bauman 2002; Grice, Baumann and Benzmüller 2005), the pitch
accent L+H* receives its fall by linear interpolation between its high tone and
the low tone of the following bitonal pitch accent L+H*, whereas the fall of
the latter is captured by the boundary tones L-L%, not by a pitch-accent tone.
In KIM, both are peak contours, and it is only the lower trailing off of F0
in the ﬁnal peak pattern, compared with the non-ﬁnal one, that is related to
&PG. Intonation effects on sentence accents are thus separated from phrasing
effects. Non-terminal falls of internal and ﬁnal pitch movements are treated in
the same inconsistent way in AM/ToBI, for example:
GToBI Die L+H*Wähler L+H*wählen !H-H%
for KIM/PROLAB &0Die &2^W'ähler&1. &2^w'ählen &1. &PG
(It is not clear how internal &1. and &2. would be distinguished in GToBI.)
Furthermore, H* is not only a pitch accent in a falling pattern H*L-L%, but
it can also be one in a rising pattern H*H-^H%. The fundamental difference
between a peak and a valley contour is handled by different boundary tones,
although the same type of rising patterns can occur internally as well, e.g. in
the insisting question addressed to a child:
&2[Kommst du &, &2[mit uns &, &2[mit &, &PG
&2[Are you &, &2[coming &, &2[with us &, &PG
There are cases of pitch distinctions at the pitch-accent level that can no
longer be represented by moving the categorisation of pitch features to bound-
ary tones, because there are no boundaries. This point was illustrated in Kohler
(2006b, pp. 126ff) with pitch patterns in the German sentence ‘War er das
wirklich?’ There are four distinctive possibilities involving rises:
(1) one accent with a medial peak-valley pattern; a rise-fall occurs on ‘war
er’ and is continued up to the end of the sentence; ‘war’ is accented,
‘wirklich’ unaccented:
&2^war &0er &0das &0w'irklich&.? &PG
&2^was &0it &0r'eally &0him &.? &PG
(2) two accents with a medial peak-valley on accented ‘war’, and a late-valley
pattern on accented ‘wirklich’; the rise-fall of the peak-valley occurs on
‘war er’, its rise on ‘das’, followed by a separate rise on ‘wirklich’:
Intonation 107
&2^war &0er &0das &., &2[w'irklich &? &PG
&2^was &0it &0him &., &2[r'eally &? &PG
(3) two accents with a prosodic boundary between the peak-valley and valley
patterns of (2):
&2^war &0er &0das&., &PG &2[w'irklich &? &PG
&2^was &0it &0him &., &PG &2[r'eally &? &PG
(4) two accents with a medial peak pattern on accented ‘war’, and a late-
valley pattern on accented ‘wirklich’; the rise-fall occurs on ‘war er’,
trailing off low on ‘das’, followed by a rise on ‘wirklich’:
&2^war &0er &0das &2. &2[w'irklich &? &PG
&2^was &0it &0him &2. &2[r'eally &? &PG
In (1), as against (2)–(4), ‘wirklich’ loses its reinforced meaning ‘in real-
ity’ and becomes a modal particle, just like ‘really’ in the English translation.
There are no perceivable exponents of internal phrase boundaries required in
(2) and (4), nor in their English translations. In (2) the Polarity Question
is asked with an expression of disbelief that ‘it might have been him’, whereas
the Polarity Question in (4) insists on ﬁnding out whether ‘it was him
or not’. This also applies to the English translations. The introduction of an
internal phrase boundary after ‘das’ (or ‘him’ in the English translation) in (3)
may be achieved simply by lengthening ‘das’ (or ‘him’); a pause is not nec-
essary. This break turns (2) into a succession of two questions, with increased
disbelief.
AM/ToBI marking of (1) would give ‘war’ (or ‘was’) the bitonal pitch
accent L+H* and attribute the fall-rise to a phrase accent and boundary tone
L-H%, with linear interpolation between H* of the pitch accent and the phrase
accent L-. In (4), ‘wirklich’ would receive an additional pitch accent L*, with
linear interpolation as in (1). In (3), there would be two intonation phrases
‘war er das’ with L+H* L-H% and ‘wirklich’ with L* H-H%, again with
linear interpolation H-L and L-H. The empirically found intonation pattern-
ing in (2) cannot be represented in AM/ToBI. Pitch accents being limited to
bitonal combinations and movement direction being associated with phrase
accents and boundary tones make it impossible to represent the fall-rise of
the ﬁrst pitch accent in the absence of an internal phrase boundary. Either a
phrase boundary would have to be created, blurring the meaningful distinc-
tion between (2) and (3), or the bitonal restriction on pitch accents would have
to be given up, thus moving pitch information back from the edge tones to the
pitch accents.
108 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
Grice (1995) allowed more than two tones in a single pitch accent in order
to account for distinctive pitch phenomena, without theoretical reasoning, just
as the original bitonal restriction was not theoretically motivated. This is cir-
cular argumentation, because the empirical data trigger the expansion of the
categorical repertoire, and the revised underlying representation is then sup-
posed to provide an explanatorily adequate account of the same empirical data.
Moreover, in such a data-driven approach, underlying categories are no longer
falsiﬁable, since they are adjustable in an ad hoc way to meet empirical ﬁnd-
ings, instead of being set up by considerations that lie outside the data they are
to provide a theoretical framework for.
The division of tonal features of global accent-related pitch patterns between
pitch accents and edge tones disrupts the unity of sets of direction-deﬁned con-
tours and their synchronisation with articulation. Perceptual experiments have
shown (see 2.8) that shifting a peak or a valley pattern through the environ-
ment of an accented word in an utterance creates a continuum from early via
medial to late peak, or from early- to late-valley synchronisation, which is to
be given theoretical status in a model of intonation. This means that movement
direction should be part of the deﬁnition of intonation patterns linked to sen-
tence accents. It provides the unifying feature within which different synchro-
nisations with articulation lead to pattern subcategorisation.
2.8 Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation
2.8.1 Signal Analysis of Peak Patterns
Figure 2.14 illustrates the three synchronisation patterns of F0 with the
accented syllable in the German sentence:
&0Sie &0hat &0ja &2)/^/(gel'ogen &2. &PG [She’s been lying.]
The F0 and overall energy patterns are clearly distinguished and are associ-
ated with different meanings. The medial peak in a signals the Opening of an
Argumentation (‘Now I understand. She’s been lying’), the early peak in b
signals the Conclusion of an Argumentation (‘That’s it then. She’s been
lying’), and the late peak in c adds Unexpectedness to Opening Argumen-
tation (‘Oh! She’s been lying’).
In a medial peak, F0 enters the nucleus of the stressed syllable [loː] in the
accented word ‘gelogen’ as a rise to the maximum F0 point in the centre of
the vowel, from which it falls to a low level. In an early peak, F0 enters the
stressed syllable as a fall from a higher pre-accent level. This reversal of pitch
movement into the vowel between medial and early peaks is coupled with an
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 109
increase of acoustic energy as the vocal tract opens, especially if there is a
consonant syllable onset. This highlights the pitch difference and creates a dis-
tinctive acoustic contrast. In a late peak, there is not the same acoustic strength
contrasting it with medial synchronisation or any peak position in between: the
F0 rise across the accented vowel has a progressively lower start and greater
Figure 2.14. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale, plain lines) and energy
traces (dotted lines) of natural productions of a medial peak b early peak c
late peak in the German utterance ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’ [She’s been lying].
Phonetic segmentation of syllables, and segments [l] and [oː] in c, adjustable
to the different timing in a and b. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
110 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
extension, and the fall does not occur until the vowel offset, or even in a fol-
lowing unstressed syllable. This creates a pitch continuum from medial to late.
Unaccented syllables before the accent syllable can make the pitch rever-
sal across the accent-syllable boundary still more salient if the immediately
preceding one is either high or low pitch for early and medial, respectively.
When the accent syllable is utterance initial, the early peak F0 contour is still
low falling in the critical transition period, as against rising or high level before
the subsequent fall in the medial peak. The essential difference between the
two synchronisations then becomes one of pitch scaling: in the early peak,
pitch is lowered in a narrow time-window after the accented-vowel onset,
whereas in the medial peak it is raised.
The medial peak pitch-level contrast low-high across an accented-syllable
boundary can also be generated in a peak contour with an early F0 maximum
synchronisation. In Figure 2.15, panel a shows the stylised version of a natural
medial peak production (plain line) of the sentence ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’, and the
parallel left shift to synchronise the peak maximum with the [l]–[o:] transition
(dashed line). In each case, the ascending and descending branches occur in
time-windows of about 120 ms. The left shift is perceived as an early peak.
When the descending branch of this shifted peak is raised and the ascending
branch dipped, generating a low-high contrast across the accented-syllable
boundary, as shown in panel b (dotted lines), the percept becomes a medial
peak. If only one branch is changed, the percept is neither a proper early nor a
proper medial peak. Contrariwise, a peak that is synchronised 30 ms into the
accented vowel, and is perceived as a medial peak (panel c, dashed line), can
be changed to an early peak percept by raising the ascending branch and dip-
ping the descending one (dotted lines), generating a high–low contrast across
the accented-syllable boundary. Again the perceptual change depends on both
branches being modiﬁed simultaneously. A change of medial peak synchroni-
sation to a perceived early peak by on-branch raising and off-branch dipping
cannot be effected if the peak maximum is moved into the vowel by more
than about 60 ms, for example, at the position in the original utterance. This is
so because F0 would be raised more in the critical time-window after, rather
than before, the accented-vowel onset, which supports medial peak percep-
tion. Likewise, the reverse change of early peak synchronisation to medial
peak perception by on-branch dipping and off-branch raising is not possible if
it occurs in the critical time-window before the accented-vowel onset. These
data show that the pitch contrast across the accented-vowel onset in pre- and
post-boundary windows of about 60 ms (in the case of a long vowel) is essen-
tial for signalling early or medial peak synchronisation.
Figure 2.15. Spectrogram, F0 traces (log scale) and phonetic segmentation
of syllables and segments [l] and [oː], in the German utterance ‘Sie hat
ja gelogen’: a, stylised original F0 contour (plain line) and peak shift to
synchronise F0 maximum with [l]–[oː] transition (dashed line); b, raising
the descending, and/or dipping the ascending branch (dotted line) of the
shifted F0 peak contour (dashed line); c, F0 peak shift 30 ms into the
accented vowel (dashed line), dipping the descending and/or raising the
ascending branch (dotted line). Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
112 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
2.8.2 Discrimination and Identiﬁcation Tests with Peak Patterns
The peak-shift paradigm that was used to investigate sentence accent and
lexical stress perception (2.2, 2.6) was also applied to the perceptual catego-
risation of early-medial-late peak synchronisation (for experimental details,
see Kohler 1987b, 1991a). Taking the medial F0 peak position of the original
utterance ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’ in Figure 2.14a as a point of departure, the peak
rise-fall contour was moved along the time axis in 6 equal steps of 30 ms
each to the left and 4 corresponding steps to the right. In the right shift, both
branches were moved in parallel. In the left shift, only the rising branch was:
Figure 2.16. Spectrogram of the German medial-peak utterance ‘Sie hat
ja gelogen’ and its F0 trace (log scale, thick line). F0 traces (log scale) of
six left and four right shifts (thin lines) and the energy trace of the original
utterance (dotted line) in a separate Pitch/Energy panel, used for LPC
synthesis of an eleven-stimulus peak-shift continuum from early to late.
Segmented and phonetically annotated. Standard German, male speaker
(KJK).
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 113
the falling one was expanded between the new maximum position and the orig-
inal right base point, and was thus given a less steep slope. This approached
the natural production of an early peak (Figure 2.14b) and generated better
LPC synthesis than a parallel left shift, avoiding too long and too low an F0
stretch. Figure 2.16 shows the set of eleven F0 peak patterns from early to
late, synchronised with the spectral timing in the spectrogram of the original
medial-peak utterance; the thick F0 trace marks its original F0 contour. The
dotted line is the energy trace of the original utterance. Sections of the shifted
peak patterns that coincided with voiceless stretches had F0 masked. The peak
maximum of stimulus 4 (from the left) was synchronised with the [l]-[oː] tran-
sition; stimulus 5 was the ﬁrst that had its peak maximum inside the accented
vowel.
In a serial discrimination test, listeners were presented with the ordered
series of peak-shift stimuli from left to right and asked at which stimulus in
the series they perceived the ﬁrst melodic change and at which stimuli they
perceived further changes. Table 2.1 presents the responses by sixty listeners.
Subjects were also asked to paraphrase the meanings (a) of the initial utterance
of the series, (b) of the ﬁrst change and (c) of a later change; for each question
the series was repeated. Typical answers were: (a) knowing, summarising, con-
cluding; (b) observing, recognising facts and events, opening an argument; (c)
like (b) but, contrary to expectation, with surprise. These pragmatic descrip-
tions formed the basis for the context construction in an identiﬁcation test.
In a formal randomised paired discrimination test, all the pairs of two-step
distances from the ordered peak-shift series in ascending or descending order
were presented for ‘same/different’ judgements. The test was carried out with
a group of thirty-nine subjects in ascending order and with a different group
Table 2.1. Frequency distribution of ‘change has occurred’responses by sixty
listeners in the left-right sequence of the serial discrimination test across the
eleven stimuli with F0 peak shifts in ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’(1 = left-most, 11 =
right-most position).
Stimulus
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
First change perceived 1 4 39 16
Further changes perceived 1 5 11 15 21 22 11
Total 1 4 40 21 11 15 21 22 11
114 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
of thirty-four subjects in descending order. Figure 2.17 shows the response
functions.
Both types of test converge in demonstrating a major and a minor peak in
the discrimination function, around stimuli 5/6 and 9/10, respectively. In the
paired discrimination test, differentiation is sharpest, and equally so in both
orderings of stimuli, when the 60 ms peak-maximum distance between the
paired stimuli is located early rather than late in the critical time-window after
accented-vowel onset, or inside rather than outside it, i.e. in the pairs 4–6,
Figure 2.17. Discrimination functions in the randomised paired
discrimination test, showing percentage of ‘different’ judgements for
utterance pairs of ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’ with two-step distances of F0 peak
positions, in the ordering left-right (plain line) or right-left (dashed line).
Thirty-nine subjects, n = 78 in the left-to-right ordering; thirty-four subjects,
n = 68 in the right-to-left ordering.
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1
-
3
/
3
-
1
2
-
4
/
4
-
2
3
-
5
/
5
-
3
4
-
6
/
6
-
4
5
-
7
/
7
-
5
6
-
8
/
8
-
6
7
-
9
/
9
-
7
8
-
1
0
/
1
0
-
8
9
-
1
1
/
1
1
-
9
%
‘different’ Discrimination ‘gelogen’
F0 peak pairs
left-right right-left
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 115
5–7 and 7–5, 6–4. But there is also a strong order effect, as 3–5 and 8–6 show
sharp discrimination as well, but 5–3 and 6–8 do not. In 3–5 the F0 maxima
positions straddle the accented-vowel onset; in 6–8 they are outside the critical
time-window. Therefore, discrimination is expected to be strong in the former,
weak in the latter. But when stimulus 5, with its F0 maximum only 30 ms into
the vowel, is heard ﬁrst, it appears to be perceptually represented closer to an
early peak, and stimulus 3 is then not sufﬁciently different. When stimulus
8, being 120 ms into the vowel, is heard ﬁrst, it gets a perceptual representa-
tion as a clear medial peak, from which stimulus 6 on the edge of the critical
time-window may be sufﬁciently different.
The paired discrimination test on the set of ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’ utterances
was supplemented by an identiﬁcation test, preﬁxing each of the ﬁrst eight
peak-shift stimuli (from early to medial) with the context stimulus ‘Jetzt ver-
steh ich das erst’ [Now I understand], spoken by the same speaker (KJK); it
imparts Openness of Argumentation. And nineteen listeners were asked
to judge, in a forced-choice response, whether the melody of the test stimulus
matched the context or not. This is an indirect way of assessing the com-
municative functions of medial peaks and, by exclusion, of early peaks in
German. Figure 2.18 presents the identiﬁcation function. The stimuli with
F0-maximum synchronisation up to the [l]-[oː] transition, i.e. the early set,
are almost unanimously perceived as not matching, and, likewise, the stim-
uli with F0 maximum ≥60 ms inside the accented vowel, i.e. the medial set,
as matching. Stimulus 5, with its F0 maximum inside the critical transition
time-window, is in between the two perceptual and functional categories.
Taking the discrimination and the identiﬁcation function together provides
a case for categorical pitch perception, i.e. increased sensitivity across the
prosodic division between early and non-early peaks, resulting in discrete
category attribution. There is also perceptual prosody-function categorisation
among non-early peaks, and it is no longer discrete categorical but, rather,
continuous.
The serial discrimination test was also applied to the ﬁrst ten stimuli of
the corresponding F0 peak shift in ‘Aber der Leo säuft’, where the F0 peak
position moved from early to late in accented ‘Leo’ (2.2). The data, shown
in Table 2.2, replicate those found in ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’, with a peak in the
discrimination function at the same shift-series point (stimuli 5–6).
The nine-point peak-shift paradigm was also applied to ‘Es ist ja gelungen’
[It has been successful], where the accented vowel is short. The step size was
again 30 ms, and one peak maximum was located at the [l]-[ʊ] boundary of
the accented word ‘gelungen’, three to its left and ﬁve to its right. Table 2.3
116 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
Figure 2.18. Identiﬁcation function in the identiﬁcation test, showing
percentage of ‘matching’ judgements for eight stimuli ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’
with F0 peak shift from left to right in the context ‘Jetzt versteh ich das
erst.’ Nineteen subjects; for each stimulus n = 190.
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
F0 peak shift left-right
%
‘matching’
Identification ‘gelogen’
Table 2.2. Frequency distribution of ‘change has occurred’responses by
thirty-two listeners in the left-right sequence of the serial discrimination test
across the ﬁrst ten stimuli of the F0 peak shift in ‘Aber der Leo säuft’(1 =
left-most, 10 = right-most position; two listeners perceived no change).
Stimulus
2 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
First change perceived 1 5 12 10 2
Further changes perceived 4 7 5 7 7
Total 1 5 12 14 9 5 7 7
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 117
Table 2.3. Frequency distribution of ‘change has occurred’responses by
twenty-nine listeners in the left-right sequence of the serial discrimination
test across the nine stimuli of F0 peak shift in ‘Es ist ja gelungen’(1 = left-
most, 9 = right-most position).
Stimulus
4 5 6 7 8 9
First change perceived 5 19 5
Further changes perceived 2 5 3 3 0
Total 5 21 10 5 3 0
presents the results. The response function again peaks at the same position in
the series for stimuli 5–6.
Gartenberg and Panzlaff-Reuter (1991) have shown that syllable structure
inﬂuences production and perception of F0 peak synchronisation. In short
vowels, medial peaks have their maxima closer to the accented-vowel offset.
This may point to the same absolute transition time-window for long and short
vowels, but the critical time-window in short accented vowels may also be
smaller than for long vowels, and a narrower peak-shift step may have shown
a perceptual change earlier in the vowel of ‘gelungen’. Moreover, the late syn-
chronisation was not reached in the peak shift of ‘Es ist ja gelungen’; the max-
imum would have to be moved into the following unstressed [ə]. These are
open issues.
In the various peak-shift series, the sharp change in discrimination for stim-
uli with F0 maxima moving 30–60 ms into the accented vowel contrasts with
low discrimination before and after. These perceptual data can be linked to
an acoustic change from high-low to low-high F0 across the accented-vowel
onset, on the one hand, and to a shift along a high-low or a low-high mono-
tonic F0 continuum before or after the transition, on the other. This acoustic-
perceptual link points to a psychophonetic principle of pitch perception, which
may be assumed to be universal in speech communication across the languages
of the world.
Such a general psychophonetic principle would operate in the perception
of F0 patterns in human speech, irrespective of the phonological categorisa-
tion and the linguistic functions it may serve in any particular language. This
means that native speakers of languages other than German should be able to
detect changes in F0 peak positions in relation to general human articulatory
118 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
sequences when they listen to the same German utterances without knowing
any German at all, and thus without assessing the stimuli semantically, but
simply on the basis of the general phonetic properties of human speech. If the
results of such listening tests coincide with the results from German listeners,
this will be strong support for a language-independent psychophonetic princi-
ple. As a ﬁrst step, the serial discrimination test in the ascending ordering was
run with two groups of non-German speakers.
(a) At talks I gave about the modelling of intonation to native English
audiences at the British Phonetics Colloquium in Edinburgh in 1984
and at AT&T Bell Labs, Murray Hill, in 1986, I informally presented
the eleven-point peak-shift series of ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’ and asked lis-
teners, most of whom had no knowledge of German, to decide when
they heard the ﬁrst melodic difference. The answers clearly pointed to
stimuli 5 and 6.
At Bell Labs, there was a Chinese speaker among the audience, Chilin Shih,
a research worker in the lab at the time, who was able to classify the eleven
stimuli of the left-right series tonally, although she had no knowledge of Ger-
man. Without the slightest doubt, she associated stimuli 1–4 with Mandarin
tone 3, stimulus 5 with tone 4; later in the series, tone 4 changed to the com-
bined tones 2+4. Whereas the switch from tone 3 to tone 4 occurred abruptly
in the succession of stimuli 4 and 5, the change from tone 4 to tones 2+4 was
gradual and could be less easily located (at stimulus 9 the change had deﬁ-
nitely taken place). This informal test shows (1) that tones 3 and 4 in Mandarin
Chinese are differentiated by the F0 maximum relative to the vowel onset,
prenuclear higher F0 signalling the former, nuclear higher F0 the latter, and
(2) that these categorisations are possible on the language-independent basis of
human speech perception in general. See also Gårding, Kratochvil, Svantesson
and Zhang (1985).
(b) The second group was made up of twenty-ﬁve Russian speakers in
Leningrad, who had no knowledge of German and who worked on
Russian, English or French phonetics (eleven), or were students in
their ﬁrst or second year in the Philology Faculty (fourteen). The
eleven-point peak-shift series, from left to right of ‘Sie hat ja gelo-
gen’ was played to them. The subjects listened to the series twice and
crossed, on a prepared answer sheet, the number of the stimulus in
the series that they perceived as being most clearly different from the
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 119
Table 2.4. Frequency distribution of ‘clearly different’responses by twenty-
ﬁve Russian listeners without any knowledge of German in the left-right
sequence of the serial discrimination test across the eleven stimuli with F0
peak shifts in ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’(1 = left-most, 11 = right-most position).
Stimulus
2 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Phoneticians (11) 1 1 7 4 1 1 1
Non-phoneticians (14) 1 1 2 11 3 1 1
Total 1 2 3 18 7 2 2 1
rest. The test was carried out by Natalia Svetozarova, Chair of Pho-
netics at Leningrad University, in 1988. Table 2.4 presents the results.
Although the instruction requested a single response, some subjects
indicated more than one stimulus as being clearly different.
Both the phoneticians and the non-phoneticians in the Russian group con-
verged in having a clear maximum of the response function for stimulus 6.
This is a higher position than for the German listeners, who favoured stimulus
5, but who also provided a substantial portion of their answers for stimulus
6. These results are a very strong indication that the dichotomy between an
early and medial peak position is indeed a general psychophonetic, language-
independent phenomenon, which is then incorporated into the language-
speciﬁc phonology at different levels.
The acoustic continuum of F0 peak shift is thus perceptually partitioned into
two clearly delimited sections with the boundary occurring around stimuli with
their F0 maximum 0–60 ms into the accented vowel, and this perceptual divi-
sion coincides with an acoustic change from high-low to low-high F0 across the
vowel onset. Around the boundary between these two sections, discrimination
is sharpest. The question then is to ﬁnd out how different languages incorporate
this acoustic-perceptual principle at different levels in speech communication. It
has already been pointed out in the discussion of Figure 2.14 that in German the
two perceptually determined sections of the acoustic continuum correspond to
two communicative functions: Finality and Openness in Argumentation.
A further F0 peak shift along the acoustic continuum results in a more gradual
auditory change which in German is correlated with a more gradual change of
communicative function, expressing degrees of distance that speakers establish
120 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
between themselves and the world as it presents itself to them, successively
superimposing degrees of Contrast and Unexpectedness/Incredulity
upon Openness in Argumentation. This degree of distance is the seman-
tic basis of the medial to late peak positions, whereas degrees of Intensifica-
tion in reinforced accents (see 2.2) are correlated with another F0 continuum of
extension of F0 change.
The association of the early-medial-late synchronisation with different
communicative functions was further investigated experimentally. On the
basis of the discrimination test results and of hypotheses concerning the com-
municative functions of early, medial and late peaks, three contexts were con-
structed:
(1) ‘Wer einmal lügt, dem glaubt man nicht, auch wenn er gleich die
Wahrheit spricht. Das gilt auch für Anna.’ [Once a liar, always a liar.
This also applies to Anne.]
This context sets the frame for summing up and bringing an argument to
a close.
(2) ‘Jetzt versteh ich das erst.’ [Now I understand.]
This context presents a new fact and opens a new argument.
(3) ‘Oh.’ This context introduces speakers distancing themselves from
observed facts and expresses contrast and unexpectedness.
Each of these contexts was produced naturally (by KJK) and paired with
each of the three naturally produced peaks in the sentence ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’
of Figure 2.14 in a forced-choice natural-stimuli identiﬁcation test for listen-
ers to judge whether the test stimulus matched the context or not. Table 2.5
presents the results.
Table 2.5. Percentages of ‘matching’responses for combinations of three
contexts and early, medial or late F0 peaks in the sentence ‘Sie hat ja
gelogen’in a natural-stimuli identiﬁcation test. Eighty-eight subjects.
Context
(1) Wer (2) Jetzt (3) Oh
Peak position
early 87.5 27.3 8.0
medial 26.1 70.5 72.7
late 13.6 67.0 76.1
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 121
The early peak matches well with context (1), but with no other, least of
all with context (3). Medial and, even less so, late peaks do not match with
context (1). The late peak matches best with context (3), but the medial peak
matches with both contexts (2) and (3), and the late peak matches fairly well
with context (2). This shows a sharp functional separation of early and non-
early peaks, in addition to their sharp psychophonetic distinction.
In Mandarin Chinese, the psychophonetic distinction functions at the level of
lexical tones 3 versus 4. In Swedish and Norwegian, it functions at the level of
early peak word accent I versus late peak word accent II (Bruce 1977; Gårding
1979, 1982). In Russian, it operates as F0 peak contour synchronisation that
is either slow rising in the pre-accent syllable or fast rising late in the accent
syllable for Statements versus Polarity Questions (Khromovskikh 2003;
Rathcke 2006). All these different language-speciﬁc functions are carried by a
high-low versus a low-high pitch change across the accented-syllable onset. In
Neapolitan Italian, a medial versus a late F0 peak synchronisation within the
accented vowel is used to differentiate Statements with narrow focus and
Polarity Questions, with additional raising of the F0 descent in the latter
(d’Imperio 2000). Pitch height in relation to accented-syllable synchronisation
again plays the essential role for functional differentiation.
The importance of this psychophonetic principle of a pitch-level difference
for the coding of communicative functions at all linguistic levels makes it man-
datory to incorporate it as a basic component in any prosodic model and in the
annotation system based on it. It is an exciting challenge for comparative lin-
guistics to investigate the functional use of this prosodic patterning across the
languages of the world and to provide a prosody-function typology. Comple-
mentary research questions concern the formal exponents of such functional cat-
egories as Finality versus Openness in languages like Mandarin Chinese and
Swedish, where high-low versus low-high pitch is already bound at the lexical
level, or in languages like Russian or Neapolitan Italian, where it is bound in the
Statement versus Question functions. It may well be that Russian and Nea-
politan Italian distinguish Conclusive from Opening Argumentation by
distinctive synchronisations that are also different from the late synchronisation
in questions. The experimental paradigm asking whether stimuli were statements
or questions, used in these studies, was not delicate enough to elicit the Finality
versus Openness function. For Swedish, see the study of Ambrazaitis (2009).
2.8.3 Further Peak-Shift Experiments in German
In the course of experimenting with peak pattern synchronisation in German, it
was observed that the perceptual categories of early and medial peaks are also
122 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
determined by the internal timing of pitch rises and falls in narrow time-win-
dows before and after the accented-vowel onset, over and above their external
synchronisation with vocal-tract timing (see 2.8.1). To test this additional fac-
tor systematically, Niebuhr (2003a,b, 2007b) repeated the peak-shift discrim-
ination and identiﬁcation experiments with the German sentence ‘Sie war mal
Malerin’ [She used to paint], and applied four peak types, using all possible
combinations of narrow and broad time-windows for rises (149 ms and 296
ms) and falls (133 ms and 266 ms), in each case with peak maximum, left and
right base point F0 values of 150 Hz, 105 Hz and 110 Hz, i.e. 6.3 st rises and
5.4 st falls. The short rise and fall windows generated a peak pattern compara-
ble to the one used in Kohler (1987b), which was a little narrower (120 ms for
both rise and fall) and had slightly lower maximum and base point values (140
Hz and 85 Hz), i.e. 8.5 st for the rise and the fall. Niebuhr’s peak contours with
one or two broad time-windows spanned 400 ms< t <565 ms, or between 40%
and 60% of the total voiced sonorant utterance stretch.
The sentence was produced on a monotone by the author (which is not men-
tioned in Niebuhr 2003b, 2007b, but is part of the experimental description
in Niebuhr 2003a). ‘Malerin’ was to receive a sentence accent, which, in the
absence of F0 movement, had to be implemented by energy and duration. The
rationale was that a neutral F0 pattern without falls and rises would provide a
better basis for high auditory-quality synthesis of an F0 peak-shift series. Four
stimulus series were generated by superimposing each rise-fall combination
on the original utterance. The F0 maximum was synchronised with the /m/-/a:/
transition of the accented word ‘Malerin’, and the peak conﬁguration was then
shifted in 5 steps of 20 ms to either side. Listening to these series shows that, in
addition to intonation, accentuation also changes as the peak contour is shifted
through the utterance from left to right. The monotone production changed the
temporal structure and the energy proﬁle of the utterance, resulting in longer
unaccented syllables and stronger accented ones than in a natural medial peak
production.
The timing of the spectral energy distribution, as well as of the global
energy in the original monotone utterance, displayed in Figure 2.19, indicates
a prominence proﬁle ‘weak – strong – weak – very strong – weak – very weak’
in the six successive syllables ‘sie’, ‘war’, ‘mal’, ‘Ma-’, ‘-le-’, ‘-rin’, based on
the energy and duration of their vowel nuclei. This prominence proﬁle makes
the syllables ‘Ma-’ and, to a smaller degree, ‘war’ stand out, giving special
weight to the word ‘Malerin’ and some weight to the function word ‘war’.
The monotone prominence pattern is strengthened when rise-fall F0 contours
are added. This is especially the case when a broad rise creates a long rise that
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 123
Figure 2.19. Spectrogram, energy proﬁle, F0 traces (log scale) and phonetic
segmentation of syllables, as well as segments /m/ and /a:/, in the German
utterance ‘Sie war mal Malerin’ (Niebuhr 2003a). Each pitch panel shows
the same global F0 peak patterns, with narrow and broad time-windows
for rise and fall (plain and dashed lines). In a, the peak maximum is
synchronised with the /m/-/a:/ transition of the stressed syllable of the
accented word ‘Malerin’. In b and c, the peak maximum is shifted 60 ms
to the left and to the right, respectively. Original utterance spoken on a
monotone, Standard German, male speaker (ON).
124 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
starts on ‘war’ and follows the rising energy (as in Figure 2.19a,b,c), or when
a broad fall raises F0 at the high energy level of ‘Ma-’ (as in Figure 2.19a,c).
The synchronisation of the narrow rise-fall maximum with the vowel onset
of ‘Ma-’ produces a single &2 accent on ‘Malerin’ with an indecisive peak
between early and medial (Figure 2.19a, plain line). Replacing the narrow by a
broad fall (plain-line rise, dashed-line fall) adds extra prominence to the accent
and changes the intonation to medial. On the other hand, a broad instead of a nar-
row rise (dashed-line rise, plain-line fall) gives ‘war’ a &1 accent, foreground-
ing the past tense of the verb, and weakens the accent on ‘Malerin’, turning
the intonation to early. If both narrow rise and fall are replaced (Figure 2.19a,
dashed line) ‘war’ receives a &1 accent, and accent &2 on ‘Malerin’ is intensi-
ﬁed, producing a strange effect because accentuating ‘war’ points to Conclu-
sion, and intensifying ‘Malerin’ stresses Openness of Argumentation: the
pattern hangs between the two functional interpretations.
All the rise and fall window combinations with the peak synchronisation
of Figure 2.19b – 60 ms before vowel onset in ‘Ma-’ – are perceived as early
peaks, but the broad fall makes the accent on ‘Malerin’ more prominent com-
pared with the narrow fall. ‘war’ stays unaccented in this and in the other four
early broad-rise synchronisations, because the total low-high F0 trajectory to
the early peak maximum gets successively shorter in the left-shift from the
position in Figure 2.19a and thus does not become a prominence-lending rise,
separated from the fall and associated with ‘war’.
All the rise-fall combinations with the peak synchronisation in
Figure 2.19c – 60 ms after vowel onset in ‘Ma-’ – are perceived as medial
peaks. The broad fall intensiﬁes the accent on ‘Malerin’, and the broad rise
creates a clear partial accent on ‘war’. This also applies to the ﬁrst two shifts
after vowel onset; in post-boundary shifts 4 and 5, accent &2 on ‘Malerin’
increases, but &1 on ‘war’ disappears, as the rise can no longer be connected
with a separate prominence-lending rise on ‘war’, the start of the rise being
closer to the onset of accented ‘Ma-’.
Thus, there was interaction of accent and intonation perception in Niebuhr’s
peak-shift series. It introduced two uncontrolled accent variables: (a) the inﬂu-
ence of energy and duration patterns in monotone stimulus production, (b)
the inﬂuence of F0 rise and fall time-windows that are too broad. Variable (b)
hampers the investigation of intonation contrasts at constant accent positions,
since the very broad windows span too many syllables in which the promi-
nence-lending aspect of F0 may change prominence relations in combination
with the energy and duration variables of (a). The paradigm is not suited to
investigate the high-low versus low-high pitch-level change in peak patterns
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 125
across an accented-vowel onset. This change is determined by peak maximum
synchronisation and by peak-internal F0 timing around the accented-vowel
onset, as discussed in 2.8.1 with reference to Figure 2.15. This is micro-timing
within macro-timing, which cannot be captured by the broad time-windows
used by Niebuhr. This is a conceptual problem, created by the term contour
shape for the additional distinctive feature beside temporal peak synchronisa-
tion. Although shape also has a time reference, it was taken out of the domain
of F0 timing, and thus the analysis lost sight of the central issue of the inte-
gration of macro- and micro-timing. There is a discrepancy between the more
ﬁnely grained peak shift in steps of 20 ms, rather than 30 ms in Kohler (1991a),
and the crude internal F0 timing in broad rise and fall windows.
On the strength of the ﬁndings of intonation categorisation in 2.8.1 and
2.8.2, perceptual processing of F0 peak timing can be modelled as follows.
A prototypical early peak has a low fall into the accented vowel, follow-
ing high F0 before its onset if it is preceded by sonorous segments. This
strengthens the perception of low pitch initially in the accented syllable
nucleus. The reverse holds for the prototypical medial peak, for which F0
rises to the peak maximum into the accented vowel, thus strengthening the
perception of high pitch initially in the accented syllable nucleus. These
low or high pitch-related percepts for an early or a medial peak can also
be achieved by a later synchronisation of the F0 maximum, together with a
slower rise and faster fall for early, or by an earlier synchronisation, together
with a faster rise and a slower fall for medial. The essential production strat-
egy is to create a lower or higher paradigmatic pitch contrast initially in the
accented vowel, and to achieve this by a syntagmatic pitch change across
the vowel boundary. The important condition is that this difference in syn-
tagmatic change is substantial enough within a critical pre- and post-bound-
ary time-window. The steep ﬂanks of a narrow rising-falling peak pattern
create a clear reversal from high-low to low-high when the peak is shifted
through this time-window. But the ﬂattened ﬂanks of a broad rising-falling
peak pattern reduce the syntagmatic pitch contrast in the critical pre- and
post-boundary time-window and thus weaken the paradigmatic opposition
between early and medial synchronisation.
Synchronisation and contour-internal timing across the consonant-vowel
transition are thus not independent variables in F0 generation but work
together to achieve a pitch distinction. Synchronisation will always be the pri-
mary factor, because external-internal timing compensation occurs within a
relatively small time-window around the pre-accent to accent transition. That
such compensation can create the same functionally triggered pitch effect
126 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
introduces ﬂexibility into the timing of F0 peak movement with vocal-tract
shaping. There is a margin of variability of phonetic alignment within the same
synchronisation category, adaptable to phonetic context and communicative
situation. It is an issue for further research to investigate this external-inter-
nal F0 timing interaction also for the medial to late peak shift, especially in
connection with the exponents of Polarity Questions in languages like
Russian or Neapolitan Italian, but it requires a procedure that separates accent
from intonation effects better than the broad window combinations used in
Niebuhr (2007a,b).
2.8.4 Peak-Shift Experiments in English
The same experimental paradigm of discrimination in series presentation, of
two-step paired discrimination and of identiﬁcation was applied to English in
a study by Kleber (2006). It used the sentence ‘She has gone to Malaga’, pro-
duced after the context sentence ‘I almost forgot’, spoken by a male speaker of
Standard Southern British (WJB). Both sentences were pronounced with one
accent, on ‘Malaga’ and ‘forgot’, and with medial peak synchronisation. The
F0 contour was stylised with ﬁve F0 points: 111 Hz at utterance voicing onset,
114 Hz and 96 Hz left and right base points of the peak contour, 140 Hz peak
maximum and 76 Hz utterance voicing offset. The distances between the F0
maximum and the F0 base points were 128 ms each, and the maximum was
synchronised 43 ms into the vowel. This stylised contour was then shifted in
four steps of 29 ms to the left and in six to the right. Since the accent-initial
[m] was 73 ms, this shift synchronised the F0 maximum of the ﬁrst stimulus
of the resulting eleven-step series with the onset of [m]. Thus, the peak-shift
series was constructed with reference to the onset of [m], rather than the onset
of the accented vowel.
The peak pattern is comparable to the one used by Kohler (1987b), as well
as to the narrow one used by Niebuhr (2003a,b), but the accented vowel is
phonologically short, rather than long as in the German experiments (English
[ӕ] 100 ms, German [oː], [aː] 200 ms). Three perception tests were performed
by twenty-ﬁve subjects. The results are:
• Stimulus 4, with peak-maximum synchronisation 14 ms into the ac-
cented vowel, is the ﬁrst in left-right serial discrimination for which
a melodic change is observed, and it receives the highest number of
responses in the whole series. After that, serial discrimination drops,
but there is a minor response peak for stimulus 9, synchronised
159 ms after accented-vowel onset. These results parallel the ones
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 127
obtained for German in Kohler (1991a), cf. Table 2.1: discrimination
in the left-right peak-shift series is sharpest for the ﬁrst synchronisa-
tion after accented-vowel onset, then sensitivity decreases abruptly,
staying low until a minor increase late after accented-vowel onset.
• Left-right two-step paired discrimination yields greatest sensitivity
for pairs 2–4, 3–5 and 4–6 (72%, 82%, 72% different), i.e. for syn-
chronisation distances spanning 58 ms across the accented-vowel
onset, from -44 ms to +14 ms in 2–4 and from -15 ms to +43 ms in
3–5, as well as from +14 ms to +72 ms in 4–6, early in the accented
vowel. Before and after, sensitivity is low but increases again a little
for the late synchronisation of 8–10, 130 ms and 188 ms after accent-
ed-vowel onset in [l] and [ə] of the following syllable (picking up the
serial discrimination proﬁle). This is again in line with the German
data in Kohler (1987b), cf. Figure 2.17 (in Niebuhr 2003a,b the shift
did not go so far to the right). There is also a comparable order effect
in the English data. These discrimination results conﬁrm the impor-
tance of narrow time-windows before and after accented-vowel onset;
across it, differentiation of early and medial peak synchronisations is
sharpest. The window width seems to be independent of phonological
vowel quantity.
• Identiﬁcation increases almost linearly from 23% for stimulus 1 to
91% for stimulus 6 (58 ms into the accented vowel), stays high for
stimuli 7 and 8, and then drops gradually to 61% for stimulus 11. The
identiﬁcation function does thus not match the discrimination func-
tions, as it does not sharply separate early and medial peaks. There-
fore, the English identiﬁcation results differ from the ones obtained
by Kohler (1987b), cf. Figure 2.18, and by the narrow time-window
in Niebuhr (2003a,b, 2007b) for German. Late synchronisations were
not included in the German identiﬁcation test, as its aim was to de-
termine the early-to-medial peak boundary with a context suggesting
the opening of an argument. The diverging pattern in English is most
probably not the result of different perceptual identiﬁcation, but of
non-unique contextualisation. The context sentence ‘I almost forgot’
can easily be part of a concluding argument. ‘She’s gone to Malaga’
may then be constructed by the listener as old information that the
speaker did not mention earlier, or as new information that the speak-
er is mentioning now. Consequently, responses depended on subjects’
interpretation of contextualisation, introducing an uncontrolled varia-
ble into the perceptual identiﬁcation task.
128 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
2.8.5 Discrimination and Identiﬁcation Tests with Valley Patterns
In an early valley, the minimum F0 point occurs before or at the accented-vowel
onset, and F0 enters the accented vowel as a rise. In a late valley, the rise from the
minimum F0 point occurs in the vowel. The question then is whether rising or
falling F0 trajectories across the consonant-vowel transition produce a categor-
ical change in pitch perception comparable to the one found for falling versus
rising trajectories in early or medial peaks. Niebuhr and Kohler (2004) investi-
gated this question with two parallel sets of peak and valley shifts, applying the
same experimental paradigm of pairwise discrimination and of identiﬁcation
as in 2.8.2. The sentence ‘Und wie ist dein Name?’ [And what’s your name?]
was spoken with a medial peak and with a late valley on ‘Name’ by a male
speaker of Standard German (KJK). It was preceded by the context ‘aha’ [OK],
with ﬁnal stress, and a matching medial peak or late valley. This communica-
tive particle provided the contextual setting for ±matching identiﬁcation judge-
ments of the stimuli in two series of peak and valley shifts. The F0 contours
in the two natural productions were processed in Praat. They were stylised by
linear interpolation between ﬁve points, which formed sequences of semitone
steps up or down on two mirrored scales for the peak and the valley pattern:
(1) 112 Hz at voice onset
(2) 1.1st down/up (105/120 Hz)
(3) 6.2st up/down (150/84 Hz), 150 ms after (2)
(4) 1.2st down/up (140/90 Hz), 100 ms after (3)
(5) down to 70 Hz or up to 220 Hz, at voice offset.
The exact reversal of semitone steps down and up was not possible,
because an octave rise was not sufﬁcient to create a convincing,
friendly question intonation.
Point (3) was located at the boundary between [n] and [aː] of the accented
syllable, and the complete (2) to (4) pattern was shifted in four and in ﬁve equal
steps of 25 ms to the left and to the right, respectively. The leftmost synchro-
nisation occurred at the end of [aɪ] in ‘dein’, the rightmost about 90 ms before
the offset of [aː] in both series. Figure 2.20 shows the synchronisation at vowel
onset and the 50 ms left and right shifts for each pattern. The two original
stimuli were resynthesised with the ten F0 patterns in the peak or valley syn-
chronisation series for discrimination and identiﬁcation tests.
For discrimination, each stimulus in each series was paired with the stimu-
lus two steps removed in an ascending order, resulting in eight unequal pairs
(1–3 up to 8–10). In addition, the odd-numbered stimuli were combined to ﬁve
equal pairs (1–1 to 9–9). Subjects judged whether the stimuli in a pair sounded
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 129
the same or different. For identiﬁcation, each stimulus was preceded by the
constant context phrase ‘ah'a’, either with a medial peak for the peak series or
with a late valley for the valley series, separated by a silent interval of 250 ms.
Subjects judged whether context and stimulus were a semantic match. It was
assumed that with the medial peak in ‘ah'a’ the speaker conveys Openness
towards another person’s communicative action, for example in dealing with
an enquiry at a reception desk, and would continue to show this open interest
in asking for the person’s name in order to be able to deal with the matter. So,
Figure 2.20. Spectrogram, stylised F0 trace (semitone) and phonetic
segmentation of the original German utterances ‘Und wie ist dein Name?’
with a the peak and c the valley pattern, peak maximum and valley minimum
synchronised at accented-vowel onset (plain line), 50 ms before and after
(dotted lines): stimuli 3, 5 and 7 in each ten-point shift series. Spectrogram,
original F0 trace and phonetic segmentation of the context ‘ah'a’: b in the
peak and d the valley setting. Each original context and test stimulus spoken
as a single utterance, Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
130 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
for a semantic match between context and question the medial peak would
be expected to be carried over to ‘Und wie ist dein Name?’ The early peak,
which may be paraphrased as ‘So let’s have your name and be ﬁnished with
it!’, is not compatible with this open attitude. Analogously, the late valley in
‘ah'a’ conveys a Friendly Concern for the hearer, which sounds odd when
it is followed by an early valley, expressing Casualness. So, a late valley
in the test stimulus is assumed to be necessary for semantic matching. The
same eighteen native speakers of German did all four tests, ﬁrst with the peak,
Figure 2.21. Pairwise discrimination of F0 synchronisation in the peak and
valley series of ‘Und wie ist dein Name?’: percentage different judgements
for two-step distances between stimuli in left-right ordering, and for
identical pairs of uneven-numbered stimuli. Eighteen subjects; for each
stimulus n = 90.
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1-3/1-1 3-5/3-3 5-7/5-5 7-9/7-7
2-4 4-6 6-8 8-10 9-9
F0 peak pairs
Discrimination ‘Name’
%
‘different’
peak_diff valley_diff peak_same valley_same
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 131
then with the valley series, and discrimination came before identiﬁcation.
Figures 2.21 and 2.22 show the results.
The results give a clear picture of the perception of peak and valley patterns
in a sentence-accent language like German.
• Discrimination in the peak series is strong when the F0 maximum
of one stimulus in a pair is synchronised in the narrow time-window
after accented-vowel onset, i.e. for pairs 4–6, 5–7 and 6–8; otherwise
it is weak, approaching the response to pairs of identical stimuli.
• This discrimination response pattern replicates the one obtained in the
original peak-shift experiment with the utterance ‘Sie hat ja gelogen’
(see 2.8.2). It also mirrors the results of the peak-shift experiments
with the narrow-peak utterance ‘Sie war mal Malerin’ (2.8.3) and
with the English utterance ‘She’s gone to Malaga’ (2.8.4).
Figure 2.22. Identiﬁcation functions showing percentage ‘matching’
judgements for ten stimuli ‘Und wie ist dein Name?’ in the peak and
valley shift series, with the contexts of medial-peak and late-valley
‘ah'a’. Eighteen subjects; for each stimulus n = 90.
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1 2 3 4 5 7
6 9
8 10
F0 peak/valley shift left-right
%
‘matching’
Identification ‘Name’
peak valley
132 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
• Identiﬁcation in the peak series produces high matching scores for
stimuli 7–10, low ones for stimuli 1–5 and an indecisive one for
stimulus 6.
• The identiﬁcation response pattern also replicates the one in the orig-
inal peak-shift experiment, but it is less sharp: stimuli 1–5 show a
substantially higher percentage of matching judgements. So, there is
a residue of matching the early peak synchronisation with the medi-
al-peak context, which, on the one hand, indicates that identiﬁcation
between stimulus and context must have gone beyond simple pitch
matching. On the other hand, it indicates that the initial hypothesis of
medial peak semantics of ‘ah'a’, necessitating a medial peak in the
stimulus, was too strong. It is conceivable that a speaker signals in-
terest by medial-peak ‘ah'a’ and then continues ‘but now I need your
name’, thus expressing Finality, rather than Openness of inter-
action. In the context of the original German peak-shift experiment,
Openness was not just signalled by intonation on a communicative
particle carrier but was phrased as observing something new by ‘Now
I understand.’ This produced a much stronger contextual setting for
medial-peak matching in the test stimulus.
• Identiﬁcation replicates the general trend found in all the other peak-
shift experiments carried out in German and English (2.8.3–2.8.4).
• Discrimination in the parallel valley-shift series is very different: it
is low for all stimulus pairs and quite similar to pairs of identical
stimuli.
• On the other hand, identiﬁcation in the valley series parallels the one
in the peak series.
• Thus, whereas the discrimination and identiﬁcation patterns found in
all peak-shift experiments may be interpreted as showing categorical
pitch perception in the Haskins sense (Repp 1984, Kohler 1987b),
this does not apply to the parallel valley-shift data. But although
there is no division of the synchronisation continuum into discrete
categories by sharp changes in pattern discrimination, there is cat-
egory perception in relation to a meaning scale from Casualness
to Friendly Concern; the functional categories are cognitively
processed, without determining physical boundaries between them.
Perception is continuous, but cognitive processing allocates stimuli
of the continuum to two functional categories.
• Even in the peak series the boundary between early and medial is
not physically ﬁxed. It will change with speech rate, F0 range and
Experiments in Peak and Valley Synchronisation 133
acoustic energy, and the same physical parameters may result in
different discrimination patterns, as shown by the position effect
in right-left as against left-right ordering of stimuli in pairs (see
Figure 2.17). This non-determinacy of physical boundaries of percep-
tual categories applies to the Haskins principle of Categorical Percep-
tion in general. For example, the phonemic differentiation between
so-called voiced and voiceless plosives in English by a physical
property bundle containing VOT, intra-oral pressure, duration of pre-
plosive vowel and stop-occlusion varies with lexical stress, degree of
word accentuation, speech rate and F0 range.
We now need to ﬁnd an answer to the question that follows on from these
data: why do the peak and the valley series, which were generated in a parallel
fashion on a mirrored semitone scale, trigger such different pitch-perception
strategies? By relating the synchronisations of the generated stimuli to the deﬁ-
nitions of peak and valley contours we shall propose an answer that does not
support the assumption that the valley patterns used are mirror pitch images of
peak patterns.
(1) The peak pattern is deﬁned as a summit contour that rises above a
surrounding low pitch base.
(1.1) The synchronisation of this summit contour in relation to an accent-
ed-vowel onset creates functionally different types of peak pattern,
from early to late.
(1.2) In this synchronisation continuum, the positioning of the summit
contour in narrow windows of about 60 ms before and after the
accented-vowel onset produces distinctive high-low versus low-high
trajectories across the divide, which are categorically salient in per-
ception, supported by the increase in acoustic energy as articulation
opens into the vowel.
(1.3) Stimulus 5 of the present experiment has its F0 maximum synchro-
nised with accented-vowel onset, and pitch is in a high range in narrow
time-windows before and after. Pitch in the two windows of stimulus
3, synchronised 50 ms into the preceeding [n], is very similar. This
differs from stimulus 7, synchronised 50 ms into the accented vowel
(see Figure 2.20a). In the latter, pitch rises from the low base to the
maximum across the two windows. These pattern characteristics are
reﬂected in the discrimination score, which is high for stimuli 5–7 but
low for stimuli 3–5, and in the identiﬁcation score, which is low for
stimuli 3 and 5 but high for stimulus 7 (see Figures 2.21 and 2.22).
134 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
(1.4) Stimulus 4, synchronised between stimuli 3 and 5, like them has high-
range pitch in both windows; by contrast, stimulus 6 has a low-high
pitch rise across the accented-vowel onset, but not so extended as in
stimulus 7. Discrimination of stimuli 4–6 rises well above the level
for the pairs at the lower and the higher end of the synchronisation
scale, and identiﬁcation of stimulus 6 is above 50%, and between
the low and high scores for the lower- and higher-ranked stimuli,
respectively.
(1.5) In the pairing of stimuli 6–8, stimulus 6 occurs in the narrow
post-vowel onset window, stimulus 8 outside. Discrimination is also
above the levels of early and late pairings. Stimulus 8 is identiﬁed as
clearly matching.
(2) The valley pattern is deﬁned as a low-pitch precursor to a rise
whose end point, ranging from medial to high, is outside the narrow
time-window after accented-vowel onset.
(2.1) The rise may start before or after the accented-vowel onset, giving
different extensions of low-level pitch to functionally distinct early
or late synchronisations.
(2.2) If the valley pattern were deﬁned as the exact mirror image of the
peak pattern, it would be a dip to low pitch in a high-pitch setting
before and after. This clearly does not conform to the characteristics
of a valley pattern.
(2.3) The consequence is that in the pattern used in valley shift, the com-
pared stimuli for discrimination have similar low pitch ranges across
the windows before and after accented-vowel onset, resulting in low
discrimination scores.
(2.4) This lack of categorical discrimination between differently synchro-
nised typical valley patterns does not preclude the categorisation of
stimuli along the synchronisation continuum as early or late valley for
functional distinctions.
Since the above argumentation proceeds deductively from pitch-pattern
deﬁnition and pitch salience in narrow time-windows before and after an
accented-vowel onset, the perception difference found for peak versus valley
contours synchronised around a prominent syllable is expected to be valid in
any language, especially in languages that have a sentence accent built on lex-
ical stress, such as the Germanic, Slavonic and southern Romance languages.
This is the psychophonetic principle controlling the perception of pitch peak
contours in human speech, which was introduced in 2.8.1 and which can now
Concatenation of Pitch Patterns 135
be singled out as speciﬁc in the processing of one type of pitch movement, the
summit contour rising above a surrounding low pitch base.
2.9 Concatenation of Pitch Patterns
Peak, valley, peak-valley and level pitch patterns are concatenated in prosodic
phrases which may coincide with syntactic phrasing or cut across it. Several
cases of different pattern concatenations have already been discussed in the
sections on Prominence, Sentence Accent, Declination, Downstep and Upstep
and Intonation (2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.7), and in connection with the modelling of
(rise-)fall-rises and falls+rises (1.4.1–1.4.4). Figure 2.1 illustrates the concate-
nation of two valley (a) and two peak patterns (b)
2.1a &2]Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &, &2[H'amburg &? &PG
2.1b &2)/(Wie &0weit &0ist &0es &0bis &2. &2^H'amburg &2. &PG
The ﬁrst peak in 2.1b is early or late, the second medial. It can be turned
into an early peak &2)H'amburg &2. if the preceding unaccented word ‘bis’ is
raised to, or above, the level of the onset of the fall, thus shifting the peak max-
imum into the time-window before the accent. In the absence of unaccented
syllables before the ﬁrst accent, there is no pitch rise, but the characteristic
high-low fall into the accented vowel is sufﬁcient to signal the early peak.
When both peaks are early, the question conveys the meaning that there is only
a ﬁnal piece of information missing for an assessment or for a decision – for
example, ‘we have planned our trip now, how far is it to our ﬁrst stop, then?’
The ﬁrst valley in 2.1a is low rising and early, the second high rising and
late. It can be turned into an early valley &2]H'amburg &? if the monotonic
pitch rise is broken before the unaccented word ‘bis’ rather than after it, thus
shifting the start of the second pitch rise to a position before the accented-vowel
onset. The ﬁrst valley may also be late. When both valleys are early, the ques-
tion is casual and detached; when both are late it expresses increased interest
in getting the answer.
Peaks may be concatenated either as separate rising-falling patterns, with
variable frequency drops in the intervening dip between the two maxima,
or they may be fused into a double-accent rising-falling hat pattern with a
time-expanded summit, where the rise is linked to the ﬁrst accent, the fall to
the second. Although undipped, it has the characteristics of a medial or a late
peak in the rising part, and of a medial or early peak in the falling part. An
early peak at the ﬁrst accent and a late peak at the second are ruled out because
the former lacks the essential early low fall, the latter the essential late low
136 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
rise. The formal fusion of two accents into one hat pattern serves their seman-
tic integration. The pattern groups accented meaningful elements together
whereas a dipped peak concatenation separates them.
The English and American comedy duo of the silent-ﬁlm era &2^L'aurel/
Stan and &0. &2)H'ardy/'Ollie &2. are known in German as &2^ Dick
und &0. &2)/^Doof &2. &2^Fat and &0. &2)/^Dumb &2. If someone is
described as being ‘dick und doof’, the two adjectives are no longer being used
to refer to the joint appearance of an actor duo but to point out the physical and
mental attributes of one person. They may be seen as going together, which is
manifested in a hat pattern, or they may be seen as being separate, in which
case the realisation is a dipped peak pattern &2^dick und &1. &2^doof &2.
Similarly, the question ‘Wie weit ist es (bis Hamburg)?’ in Figure 2.2c asks
for a measure of distance with a double-accent hat pattern spread over the
qualiﬁer ‘wie’ and the quantiﬁer ‘weit’. In Figure 2.2d, the two are separately
intensiﬁed with a two-accent peak sequence.
The hat pattern is a characteristic prosodic feature of a multitude of set
phrases in English and German phraseology, binding semantic elements
together, usually two, but the expanded summit contour may comprise more.
Examples are ‘up and down’, ‘there and back’, ‘look left and right’, ‘search
left, right and centre / high and low’ (= everywhere), ‘in black and white’,
‘with bow and arrow’, ‘over hill and dale’; ‘rauf und runter’, ‘hin und zurück’,
‘links und rechts schauen’, ‘schwarz auf weiß’, ‘mit Pfeil und Bogen’, ‘über
Berg und Tal’. Cockney rhyming slang uses phrases to replace a single word,
e.g. ‘trouble and strife’ for ‘wife’. On the other hand, the formally divided
dipped peak pattern signals semantic separation, increasing from a shallow
&1. to a deep &2. further reinforced through insertion of a phrase boundary,
marked by combinations of slowing down articulation, non-modal phonation,
silent interval and F0 reset at the accent after the boundary (see 2.12).
The following examples illustrate the whole range of peak and valley con-
catenations in the same word string, from hat or tub to dipped patterns with
different degrees of separation between the accented words. In the Question
context (I), Speaker A asking ‘Wann können wir uns diese Woche treffen?’
[When can we meet this week?], Speaker B may reply:
(a) Am &2^/(S'onnabend oder &0. &2)S'onntag &2. &PG (Figure 2.23a)
On &2^/(S'aturday or &0. &2)S'unday &2. &PG
(b) Am &2^/(S'onnabend oder &1. &2^S'onntag &2. &PG (Figure 2.23b)
On &2^/(S'aturday or &1. &2^S'unday &2. &PG
(c) Am &2^/(S'onnabend &2. &PG oder &2^S'onntag &2. &PG (Figure 2.23c)
On &2^/(S'aturday &2. &PG or &2^ S'unday &2. &PG
Concatenation of Pitch Patterns 137
(d) Am &2[S'onnabend oder &0, &2]S'onntag &, &PG (Figure 2.23d)
On &2[S'aturday or &0, &2]S'unday &, &PG
(e) Am &2[S'onnabend oder &, &2[S'onntag &? &PG (Figure 2.23e)
On&2[S'aturday or &, &2[S'unday &? &PG
(f) Am &2[S'onnabend oder &? &2)S'onntag &2. &PG (Figure 2.23f)
On &2[S'aturday or &? &2)S'unday &2. &PG
In (a), the speaker offers a closed set of two weekend days as the only option;
in (b) and (c), the speaker gives two separate days as possibilities, with weaker
or stronger separation. Instead of the hat pattern in (a), Speaker B may use a
double-accented tub pattern in (d), with F0 descending from mid-level ‘am’
Figure 2.23. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and phonetically annotated
syllabic segmentation of the German utterance ‘am Sonnabend oder
Sonntag’ with a variety of distinctive intonation patterns: a, hat pattern; b,
sequence of two peaks in one prosodic phrase; c, phrase boundary between
two peaks; d, tub pattern; e, sequence of two valleys in one prosodic phrase;
f, sequence of valley and peak. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
138 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
into a low-level stretch on the ﬁrst accent and the connective, and then rising
through the second accent to mid-high, either early or late. The tub pattern may
be regarded as the fusion of two low valleys into a new rising pattern, in parallel
with the fusion of two peaks into a hat pattern (PROLAB label &0, analogous
to &0. in a hat). It may be generated by folding the hat pattern at the 110 Hz line
in (a). Like the hat pattern, the tub pattern groups the two connected accented
words into a closed set but adds listener-directed appeal signals to the proposi-
tion, of the type ‘if that’s all right with you’. In parallel to the sequence of two
peaks in (b), there is a sequence of two valleys in (e). The rise is broken and
restarted at a lower level (see also Figure 2.1). The concatenated accented words
are again separately selected, and the proposition is combined with a questioning
appeal signal to the addressee, of the type ‘Would either of these days do?’
The F0 rise in hat patterns is fast and reaches the contour maximum well
before the F0 fall for the second accent. It differs from a rise in a valley+peak
sequence in (f), which is slower and extends right up to the onset of the second
accented syllable, where the fall for an early peak starts. There is a distinctive
difference between a double-accented hat pattern and a valley+peak pattern,
which is exploited functionally. In context (I), B’s reply may be speaker-ori-
ented with a hat pattern (a), intensiﬁed by a late peak, or it may be listener-ori-
ented with the valley+peak sequence (f). In the context of A’s Question with
the broad time reference ‘this week’, (f) is a friendly offer of the two weekend
days in a Statement. In the Statement context (II),
Speaker A proposing ‘We need to get together this weekend to discuss the
matter.’
Speaker B asks a Question with the valley+peak pattern (f), requesting
a choice between the two days. To create the Question effect the valley
pattern is essential but not sufﬁcient. The F0 maximum must be reached
before the second accented syllable, contrasting high pitch before the sec-
ond accent with the low pitch of an early peak in the second accent. If the
valley rise only reaches its high level in the second accent syllable, creating
a medial peak, the two accents are contrasted, stressing the either-or struc-
ture; this pattern is not appropriate for a Question. It would be a State-
ment of contrasted weekend alternatives in the Question context (I). The
medial+early peak hat pattern in (a) lacks the questioning valley pattern
and would thus be ruled out as a Question in the Statement context (II).
But if the hat pattern starts with a late peak, i.e. a fast rise from a low pitch
level, it becomes a Question that demands, rather than requests, a response
from the addressee.
Contour-internal F0 Timing in Falls and Rises 139
2.10 Contour-internal F0 Timing in Falls and Rises
It has been noted in several places that, besides global F0 movements and the
synchronisations of their maxima or minima in relation to accented-vowel
onset, an adequate prosodic model also needs to incorporate contour-internal
F0 timing as a further theoretical category in the production and perception
of intonation for the transmission of communicative functions. In 2.8.1, 2.8.3
and 2.8.5, it was discussed how high versus low or low versus high pitch in
narrow time-windows before and after accented-vowel onset contributes to
the distinction of rise-fall peak patterns as early versus medial. A medial
peak depends on high pitch in the narrow window after accented-vowel
onset, signalled by peak maximum synchronisation or by slowing down the
F0 descent in this window. This trading relation between external and inter-
nal F0 timing is also found in Neapolitan Italian, where Polarity Ques-
tions and Statements are both coded by rising-falling peak contours, but
in the former, pitch in the accented vowel is raised, either by later synchro-
nisation, or by slower F0 descent (d’Imperio 2000; Niebuhr, D’Imperio, Gili
Fivela and Cangemi 2011).
In 2.9, fast rises of hat patterns and slow rises of valley+peak sequences
were differentiated in a closed-set either-or structure to distinguish demand-
ing from requesting in Questions, or speaker from listener orientation in
Statements of alternatives. The use of two rising patterns with either slow-
fast or fast-slow internal F0 timing was investigated by Dombrowski and
Niebuhr (2005) on the basis of turn yielding and turn holding in the Kiel
Corpus of Spontaneous Speech. The curves were described qualitatively as
concave or convex, bulging down or up. They were quantiﬁed by F0 range
proportion, which is the ratio between the F0 rise to the end of the accented
vowel and the total rise to the end of the utterance, both measured from rise
onset before the accented vowel, followed by at least one unaccented syl-
lable in early valleys. A low value of range proportion reﬂects a slow rise
speeding up later (concave), a high value the opposite of a fast rise slowing
down later (convex). Low as against high range proportion was found to be
signiﬁcantly different in the two functional contexts of Turn Yielding or
Turn Holding. Dombrowski and Niebuhr (2010) subsequently tested the
functional categorisation of the two rise patterns in a perception experiment
with the Semantic Differential, complementing and supporting the spontane-
ous production data. The authors concluded that the slow or fast rise signals
an open or a restricted action channel for the addressee; therefore, the rises
were called activating versus restricting.
140 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
These terms are deﬁned in a perception perspective from signal to addressee.
When it is replaced by a speaker–addressee interaction perspective, activation
and restriction are redeﬁned. A speaker seeks to enter into a relationship with
an addressee by using a rising rather than a falling pitch pattern, and in addition
signals subordination in the interaction, either of the addressee by a fast rise, or
of the speaker by a slow rise. In a turn-taking context, the different interaction
relationship restricts or opens the action channel for the addressee. In a ques-
tion context, the speaker stimulates an addressee into action or invites action
from an addressee, either demanding or requesting an answer, e.g. with a late
peak hat pattern versus a valley+peak pattern in ‘Am Sonnabend oder Sonn-
tag?’ (see 2.9). In the opening of an interaction, for example with a greeting
or by giving one’s name when answering the phone, the speaker either keeps
their distance from, or connects with, the addressee. This is illustrated by the
following two introductions from the same speaker in the Kiel Corpus of Spon-
taneous Speech (the bracketed sections are not shown in the ﬁgures):
File g111a00l
‘(Ja, einen wunderschönen) guten Tag. (Hier ist der) Herr Doktor
Müller-Lüdenscheid. (ähm. Ich ruf noch mal an wegen der zweitägigen
Arbeitssitzung.) [(Well, wishing you a very) nice day. (This is) Herr
Dr Müller-Lüdenscheid. (Um, I’m calling again about the second work
session)] (see Figure 2.24a)
File g113a00l
‘Guten Tag. (Hier ist) Herr Müller-Lüdenscheid. Hören Sie mich?’
[Good day. (This is) Herr Müller-Lüdenscheid. Can you hear me?] (see
Figure 2.24b)
In g111a00l, the stand-ofﬁshness in greeting and introduction is not only
expressed by the fast rises on the accented syllables ‘Tag’ and ‘Lü-’, continu-
ing in ‘den-’, and levelling out in ‘-scheid’, but also by the very formal, imper-
sonal phrasing ‘der Herr Doktor Müller-Lüdenscheid’, with deﬁnite article and
title. In g113a00l, the accented syllables have the slow rise, the introduction
is less formal, and it is followed by another slow rise in a question enquir-
ing whether reception is good. The fast, convex and slow, concave patterns
for ‘Lüdenscheid’ are shown in the F0 traces. The question, likewise, has the
slow, concave shape. Things are less clear in the F0 traces for ‘Tag’, although
auditorily they are quite distinct and conform to the other fast or slow patterns.
‘Tag’ being monosyllabic limits the fast-slow versus slow-fast exponency. The
rise starts more slowly from a lower level and moves to a lower end point in b
than in a, and the vowel is also longer, thus highlighting the pattern.
Monosyllables were not included in the Dombrowski and Niebuhr stud-
ies (2005, 2010) because the deﬁnition of range proportion presupposed
Contour-internal F0 Timing in Falls and Rises 141
unaccented syllables after the accent, so it could not be calculated for mono-
syllables. The deﬁnition will have to be changed, for example by marking a
point in time somewhere half-way between the onset of the rise and its offset.
For instance, when F0 is raised or lowered by Praat manipulation at such a
mid-point in Figure 2.25, there is a clear perceptual change between a fast-slow
and a slow-fast rise, which is recognised as Subordination moving from the
Addressee to the Speaker. This change is gradual, but opposite ends of the
mid-point F0 continuum fall into separate categories, another case of category,
rather than categorical perception (see 2.8.5).
Figure 2.25 shows a naturally produced early-valley version of the German
Information Question ‘Und wie ist dein Name?’ [And what’s your name?].
Figure 2.24. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and phonetically
annotated syllabic segmentation of excerpts from German speech ﬁles
(spliced together): a, two fast rises from g111a00l; b, three slow rises from
g113a00l. Standard German, male speaker (JAK).
142 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
The F0 trace was stylised and adjusted in Praat with the following values:
onset 108 Hz, start of rise 88 Hz, mid-point 120 Hz, end point of rise 150 Hz.
This neutral rise is shown as a plain line. The mid-point was located at the end
of the accented vowel [aː] of ‘Name’, a little more than half-way into the word.
This point was raised to 140 Hz and lowered to 100 Hz. Both curves are shown
as dotted lines. The mid-point was then lowered to 78 Hz, which entailed an F0
descent into the vowel, i.e. the generation of a late valley. This low point was
shifted to the beginning of the ﬁnal, unaccented vowel, generating a later non-
early valley. The two late valleys are shown as dashed lines. All ﬁve patterns
have distinctly different functional meanings.
Figure 2.25. Spectrogram, rising F0 contours (log scale) and phonetically
annotated syllabic segmentation in the German Information Question ‘Und
wie ist dein Name?’: neutral early valley, stylised and time-adjusted (plain
line); F0 mid-point raised and lowered (dotted lines); non-early valley at
mid-point and non-early valley shifted further to the right (dashed lines).
Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
Contour-internal F0 Timing in Falls and Rises 143
As discussed in 2.8.5, rising contours change along a continuum of F0
minimum synchronisation from early to late valley. This covers the speak-
er’s expressive range from neutral to increasing concern and feeling for the
addressee and for the matter under discussion. So, rising contours are located
in a two-dimensional plane of external F0-minimum synchronisation and
internal F0 timing. Their primary function is for a speaker to establish con-
tact with an addressee. The neutral contact signal is a rise starting before the
accented-vowel onset and continuing to the end of the prosodic phrase, with-
out macroprosodic deviations up or down from a linear course. By raising
the F0 mid-point into a fast-slow rising pattern, the addressee is subordinated
to the speaker in the communicative interaction; by lowering the mid-point
into a slow-fast rising pattern, the reverse happens. All non-early valleys are
by deﬁnition concave slow-fast rising, so they all subordinate the speaker
to the addressee. But, in addition, they add to the speaker’s expressiveness.
There is a third F0 variable affecting the function of rises: the height of the end
point. Raising it intensiﬁes the Contact, Subordination and Expressive
functions. Rises are thus located in a three-dimensional space for signalling
speaker–listener relationships in speech interaction. This is an empirical and
theoretical expansion of the traditional one-way classiﬁcation of rises into low
and high in the London School analysis, e.g. Cruttenden (1995).
The question now is how these valley timing patterns can be adequately
represented in a model of intonation as part of a wider prosodic model. KIM
already has the contour distinction of early and non-early valleys, and sepa-
rates a double-accent slow-rise valley+peak pattern from double-accent hat
pattern, where a fast rise before a fall is categorised as a medial or late peak,
with its fall being deferred to the fall in the second accent. This rise in the hat
pattern is symbolised in PROLAB as a peak with zero descent: &2^/(&0. The
zero-descent peak may be extrapolated from the hat pattern to ﬁnal position.
For example, parallel to the greeting ‘Guten &2(Tag, Herr Kohler &2. &PG’,
with a late peak, rising on ‘Tag’ and falling on ‘Herr’, then trailing off on
‘Kohler’, we may get a fast, late rising peak on ‘Tag’ that levels out after the
accent: ‘Guten &2(Tag, Herr Kohler &0. &PG.’ The rises are identical. This
justiﬁes categorising fast-slow rises as zero-descent peak contours. Further
research into the three-dimensional space of rising contours will determine
whether this categorisation is sufﬁcient or needs to be supplemented by ﬁner
differentiation of rising parameters.
As regards different contour-internal F0 timings, there is a phenomenon that
has become known under the name of High Rising Terminal (HRT), a rela-
tively recent development in English prosody, which apparently had its origin
144 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
in Australia, spread to New Zealand and the United States, and is now entering
British English. It is characteristic of young, more particularly female speak-
ers, and is very common in reporting and story-telling. Its phonetic feature is
a fast rise that levels out at the maximum (see Fletcher and Harrington 2001).
It differs from a rise in questions, although it has generally been discussed as a
misuse of question intonation when no question is being asked. It is not only a
clear case of a fast-slow convex rise but is also a signal sent out by the speaker
to stimulate the listener into staying connected (Fletcher et al. 2002).
2.11 Prehead and Register
Unaccented syllables before the ﬁrst accent in a prosodic phrase are the prehead
of the contour. Its F0 range is adjusted either to the minimum or the maximum
of a peak or a valley, resulting in a low or a high prehead. Combined with a
peak contour, a low prehead is in the F0 region of the peak tail and falls; a high
prehead is in the region of the peak maximum and may be level or descending
slightly. Preceding a medial peak, the high prehead declines slightly at a high
level to allow for the F0 rise into the accented vowel. Before a late peak, there
is an F0 drop from the high prehead to the low level in the accented syllable.
Combined with a valley contour, a low prehead is in the region of the valley
minimum and falls; a high prehead is in the region of the valley maximum and
is level or rises. Functionally, high prehead + peak and low prehead + valley
correspond: in both cases, the prehead expands the total pitch range between
beginning and end of the contour, i.e. the high-low or low-high contrast. Low
prehead + peak and high prehead + valley also correspond: in both cases, the
peak or valley is embedded in low, or high, beginning and ending, highlighting
the peak or valley pitch characteristics. PROLAB marks high preheads by &HP
prehead-initially.
In addition, deviations from a speaker’s impressionistically judged mean
pitch are taken into account as register changes, change to a lower pitch level
&LR, or to a higher pitch level &HR. These changes within a speaker’s deliv-
ery are commonly associated with prosodic boundaries, and are therefore
marked at the beginning of prosodic phrases in which they take place.
In Kohler (2011b), the results of a perception and functional categorisation
experiment with the Semantic Differential Technique were reported, on the
basis of natural productions of the German phrases ‘In Stockholm. Auf der
ICPhS’ [In Stockholm. At the ICPhS], produced as Statements or Ques-
tions. This data generation followed the analysis of the phrases from the
appointment-making scenario of the Kiel Corpus of Spontaneous Speech, cf.
Prehead and Register 145
Kohler (2011b, Figure 2). Figure 2.26 presents the F0 traces for the two-accent
phrases in two sections, the Statements in a1 and a2, the Questions in b1
and b2. Whereas the late peak and the concave valley contour are differenti-
ated as rising-falling and rising patterns in fully voiced syllable rhymes of a1
and b1, the F0 fall of the late peak is curtailed in the obstruent context. The
difference between peak and valley, signalling Statement versus Question,
depends on ﬁner detail in the F0 trajectories. The peak pattern has a fast F0
Figure 2.26. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and phonetically annotated
syllabic segmentations of the original German utterance ‘In Stockholm. Auf
der ICPhS’ in two parts as Statement (a1+a2) and as Question (b1+b2).
Plain F0 traces = original utterances; dashed F0 traces in a2 and b2 =
swapped preheads of Question and Statement by manipulation in Praat.
Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
146 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
rise, the concave valley pattern a slow F0 rise and a considerably higher F0
end point. In addition, the ﬁnal [s] is low-pitched in the peak pattern, high-
pitched in the valley pattern, manifested by increased energy in the lower or
the higher part of the spectrum, respectively. This, together with the small F0
descent after the maximum, identiﬁes the pattern in a2 as a clear rising-falling
late peak, against the valley in b2. A comparison of the F0 curves in b1 and a2
shows that the internal timing of the valley and peak rises is crucial for pattern
identiﬁcation. The low and high precursors of the natural productions in a2 and
b2 were also swapped by F0 manipulation in Praat, indicated by dashed traces
in the graphs. The peak and valley patterns with the two preheads and the two
[s] spectra in a2 and b2 entered test stimulus generation. For further details of
experimental design and results, see Kohler (2011b).
The two preheads produced very clear results on the semantic-differential
scale gegensätzlich/einvernehmlich [contrary/agreeable]. Both the high pre-
head with a late peak and the low prehead with a concave valley raised the
contrariness scores considerably compared with the other prehead pairings,
yielding a highly signiﬁcant statistical difference. This result converges with
the Dutch ﬁndings of Grabe et al.’s (1997) Semantic Differential investiga-
tion into the combinations of high %H or low %L preheads with immediately
following H*L and L*H pitch accents, which correspond to medial peak and
high-rising valley categorisations used in KIM. Judgements on friendliness,
politeness and irritation scales were affected by agreement or disagreement
of the prehead tone with the initial pitch-accent tone. Polar sequences of the
two tones yielded more positive (friendlier, more polite, less irritated) judge-
ments on the scales, non-polar sequences more negative ones. The friendliness,
politeness and irritation scales refer to the relationship between speaker and
hearer in communicative interaction, as does the contrary/agreeable scale in
the German data. However, in the German data, the concatenation of a high
prehead with a late peak increases contrary judgements in spite of a polar-
tone succession. This indicates that it is not the equivalence or divergence of
the initial pitch-accent tone and the preceding prehead tone that is relevant in
perception and cognitive processing but the relation between the utterance-
initial and the utterance-ﬁnal pitch level. The extended F0 range intensiﬁes the
contrastive statement of the late peak and the surprise question of the concave
high-rising valley, in both cases conveying an attitude of contrariness in the
speaker–listener relationship. This semantic interpretation of a global utter-
ance contour presupposes the recognition of a much wider processing window
in speech perception than the postulate of intonational morphemes for prehead
and nuclear tones in Grabe et al.’s approach allows.
Prosodic Phrasing 147
2.12 Prosodic Phrasing
Accents are organised into phrasal structures whose boundaries are marked by
a hierarchy of weak to strong distinctive bundles of juncture properties. This
hierarchical phrasal organisation reﬂects Argumentation, superimposed on
an external-world Information Structure. Prosodic phrases are further
organised into speaker turns in communicative interchanges. Speakers exhibit
varying degrees of delicacy in turn-internal prosodic phrasing according to
their proﬁciency in expressing these structures orally in interaction. The dis-
cussion below is based on the Kiel Corpus of Spontaneous Speech, which pro-
vided the dialogue data for an extensive study of prosodic phrasing in German
(Kohler, Kleber and Peters 2005; Peters 2001).
The phonetic properties of prosodic phrasing examined in these dialogue
interchanges include (1) ﬁnal syllabic lengthening, which disrupts speech ﬂu-
ency if it is above a threshold set by speech rate, (2) low-falling, high-rising or
falling-rising pitch leading up to the boundary, (3) F0 reset after it, (4) a pause
or breathing, scaled in duration, (5) interactional non-lexical sounds and (6)
glottal stop, and glottalisation in sonorants. It is clear that with such multival-
ued feature bundles, phrase boundaries cannot be discretely present or absent
but have gradient variability according to the semantic weight of phrase sepa-
ration. This weight reﬂects the Argumentation the speaker wants to convey
in speech interaction within the ﬂexible frame of a particular language, and at
the same time its phonetic exponents are an index of the speaker’s rhetorical
proﬁciency.
In the Kiel Corpus analysis, phrase boundaries were ﬁrst determined audito-
rily and then related to acoustic properties, with numerical subclassiﬁcation of
&PG in PROLAB as follows:
• &PG1 the weakest break, signalled by segmental lengthening and/or
by pitch features (±L±F), but no pause/breath (-P)
• &PG2 signalled by segmental lengthening and/or pitch features
(±L±F) + perceptually short pause/breath (+P-l), whose evaluation
depends on its duration in relation to overall speech rate and position
in syntactic structures
• &PG3 signalled by segmental lengthening and/or pitch features
(±L±F) + perceptually long pause/breath (+P+l)
• &PG4 signalled by segmental lengthening (+L) and terminal pitch
features, falling very low or rising very high (+Ft), either at the end
of a dialogue turn (+T) or followed by a perceptually long pause/
breath (+P+l)
148 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
• &PG1 and &PG2 may need further subclassiﬁcation according to the
perceptual grading of different combinations of ±L and ±F; this is an
open research question.
The following passage provides highly skilled prosodic phrasing for weighted infor-
mation grouping in an appointment-making task (g212a07r, male speaker ANL).
ja, &PG2 gerne. &PG2 ich habe also Zeit vom Donnerstag, den zweiten
Juni &PG2 bis Mittwoch, den achten, &PG3 und von Samstag, dem
achtzehnten, &PG2 bis Donnerstag, &PG1 den dreiundzwanzigsten, &PG3
und dann wieder vom siebenundzwanzigsten bis zum dreißigsten. &PG4
[yes, &PG2 OK. &PG2 I’ve got time from Thursday, the second of
June &PG2 till Wednesday, the eighth, &PG3 and from Saturday, the
eighteenth, &PG2 till Thursday &PG1 the twenty-third, &PG3 and then
again from the twenty-seventh to the thirtieth. &PG4]
The dialogue turn contains three blocks of dates, which are separated by
&PG3; within the ﬁrst two blocks, the speaker structures the periods of time
by &PG2 ‘from … to…’. The ﬁrst block is introduced by two afﬁrmative links
to the preceding turn, marked by &PG2. At the end of block 2, the day of the
week and the date are separated by a weaker &PG1. In block 3, the two dates
of the period are integrated into a hat pattern with a low-falling early F0 peak
contour and laryngealisation to signal the end of the turn.
This perfect hierarchical structuring of syntagmatic grouping, to highlight
the speaker’s Argumentation, contrasts with less transparent chunking in
the following example from the same scenario (g072a15r, male speaker TIS).
wo ich im Juni Zeit hätte, &PG1 ich kann Ihnen das ja mal sagen,
&PG2 wäre &PG3 Samstag den achtzehnten bis Donnerstag den
dreiundzwanzigsten, &PG1 und dann wieder ab &PG2 Montag den
siebenundzwanzigsten bis Ende des Monats. &PG2 Vielleicht haben Sie da
irgendwann Zeit. &PG4
[when I would have time in June, &PG1 I may tell you this, &PG2 would
be &PG3 from Saturday the 18th to Thursday the 23rd, &PG1 and then
again from &PG2 Monday the 27th till the end of the month. &PG2
Perhaps you are free on any one of these dates. &PG4]
There is less grading of boundary strength for the mapping of the structural
hierarchy in the information the speaker wants to transmit. Moreover, instances
of &PG2 and &PG3, and signal dysﬂuencies as a result of wording problems,
are located inside syntagmas.
The English translations with &PGn markings postulate the same prosody-
argumentation mapping for English. Comparable large-scale analysis of
Microprosody 149
spontaneous speech will be able to provide a deﬁnitive answer. The foregoing
discussion shows that data should not be analysed blindly and indiscriminately
but need to be screened as to the speaker’s speech proﬁciency before generalis-
ing to cognitive structures in the language. Such a preliminary screening takes
the form of competent native observers ranking speakers or corpora collected
from them on such scales as, e.g., ‘acoustic clarity/intelligibility’ and ‘content
organisation’, in each case from ‘bad’ to ‘good’. The speakers are then allo-
cated to groups according to their screening indices, and these groups are ana-
lysed separately. Such a procedure allows us to give theoretically motivated
accounts of phonetic variability across speaker proﬁciency within the same
analytical frame of reference.
2.13 Microprosody
As Figure 2.26 in 2.11 demonstrated, macroprosodic function-oriented pitch
patterns are shaped in their physical manifestation by vocal-tract articulation,
resulting in widely differing F0 traces for perceptually identical patterns, such
as late peaks. This microprosodic inﬂuence has three dimensions: (1) intrinsic
F0 differences between low and high vowels, (2) coarticulatory F0 changes in
context, especially in voiceless obstruent as against voiced sonorant environ-
ments, (3) curtailing of F0 trajectories before voicelessness. Voiceless obstru-
ents determine the F0 course of peak contours (Gartenberg and Panzlaff-Reuter
1991, Kohler 1997a). On the one hand, they raise F0 onset, without the per-
ceived contour class being affected. On the other hand, they mask it, e.g. after
short vowels in late peak contours of utterance-ﬁnal monosyllables, where the
F0 descent is strongly curtailed, compared with the F0 fall in early peaks, due
to time constraints (see 2.11). Grabe (1998) also found this truncation in her
German data for a pattern she classiﬁed as H*+L in ToBI notation. She com-
pared it to compression in what she noted as the same pattern H*+L in English.
However, closer inspection reveals that the contexts in the data acquisition are
not identical for the two languages. They are as follows:
Anna and Peter are watching TV. A photograph of this week’s National
Lottery winner appears. Anna says: Look Peter! It’s Mr Sheafer/Sheaf/Shift!
Our new neighbour!
Anna und Peter sehen fern. Ein Lottogewinner wird vorgestellt. Anna sagt:
‘Na sowas! Das ist doch Herr Schiefer/Schief/Schiff! Unser neuer Nachbar!
The German context suggests expressively evaluated contrast with ‘Na
sowas!’ [Well I never!], reinforced by the contrastive particle ‘doch’. This
150 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
connotation is absent from ‘Look Peter!’ in the English context. In such a con-
text, German uses a semantically and pragmatically contrastive late peak. It is
thus most likely that Grabe’s German speakers produced a late, her English
speakers a medial, peak, and it is therefore to be expected that alignment is
later in the German than in the English data. Truncation then follows naturally
from the greater time constraint in the voiceless context of monosyllables in
German than in English. So, Grabe used different contextualisations to obtain
her H*+L samples in the two languages, favouring Contrast and Unex-
pectedness in German but New Observation in English. This resulted in
different peak contour categories, a late peak in German versus a medial peak
in English, with different consequences for the manifestation of F0 across
syllables ending in voiceless obstruents (Kohler 2006b). It shows that commu-
nicative function is already important at the data collection stage, and that dif-
ferent phonological synchronisations of F0 patterns with articulation need to
be distinguished from variable phonetic alignment to avoid misinterpretation.
What Grabe interpreted as a difference of alignment strategies in the two
languages relates to two functionally distinctive peak patterns that belong to
both languages. This also means that the non-occurrence of truncation in the
rising pattern L*+H, which Grabe found in her data of both languages, does
not create a compression-truncation asymmetry for German. Rising contours
have to reach their F0 targets for the listener to be able to decode the ﬁnal pitch
level in the highly variable upper range of a speaker’s voice, whereas the ﬁnal
pitch level of a curtailed fall can be reconstructed from its onset in relation to
the lower end of a speaker’s voice range.
As discussed in 2.11, there is also the opposite inﬂuence of prosodic patterns
on variable realisation of segments: relaxation or tension in low-falling peak
or high-rising valley patterns produces widening/narrowing of obstruent con-
strictions and resonance channels behind them, resulting in low-spectrum or
high-spectrum strengthening, for instance in post-vocalic [s]. This phenome-
non has also been found in aspiration differences of syllable-ﬁnal [t] after short
[ɪ] in early versus late peak contours in German: the low-pitch or high-pitch
peak patterns are heightened by the different articulatory dynamics (Niebuhr
2008).
2.14 Stepping Patterns
By the side of continuous pitch patterns at accent positions in utterances of any
syntactic structure (declarative, interrogative, imperative or elliptic), English
and German also use stepping between perceptually constant pitch levels, either
Stepping Patterns 151
up or down and in a variety of intervals. To differentiate this pitch sequenc-
ing terminologically from the phonological categories of downstep and upstep
(see 2.4), it is referred to as stepping, down-stepping and up-stepping. Dom-
browski (2013) was the ﬁrst prosodist to provide a comprehensive systematic
formal account of stepping intonation patterns as a parallel set beside continu-
ous ones. He conceptualised them as derivatives from the continuous peak
and valley categories of KIM by F0-stylisation, thus expanding the theoretical
framework for the description of German intonation. But his categorisation of
stepping patterns can also be applied to English. The rationale behind Dom-
browski’s postulate of an independent set of stylised F0 patterns, separate from
continuous ones, was to relate pitch stepping to speciﬁc types of behaviour in
speech communication, i.e. routine and situationally predictable exchanges,
especially signalling initiation, continuation or conclusion of an interaction with
formalised utterances, such as greeting, leave-taking or thanking. Figure 2.27
provides examples of thanking with stylisations of early and late valleys and
peaks.
Dombrowski applied the Semantic Differential Technique in a perception
experiment using the utterance ‘In Andalusien’, pronounced with ﬁve KIM
patterns and their stylisations: early, medial, late peaks and early, late val-
leys. MANOVAs and Discriminant Analyses tested for weightings on twelve
semantic scales between the two pitch modes and between the ﬁve patterns in
each mode. The interpretation derived from the statistical results points to a
semantic weakening of stepping as against continuous contours in the direc-
tion of stereotypy, but also to comparable semantic proﬁles between the ﬁve
patterns in each pitch mode. Differences are largest between the early peak and
the valleys on the scales question-statement and closed-open in both modes.
This function-form approach will be integrated into the Appeal function of
Bühler’s Organon Model in Chapter 4.1 (see also 1.2.1.2).
Stepping patterns have been discussed sporadically in the literature under
a variety of terms, generally not from the point of view of their communica-
tive function but from the formal angle, as deviations from the usual continu-
ous pitch contrasts. The most common reference is to call(ing) contours (Abe
1962; Ladd 1996 (2nd edn 2008)) or calls (Gibbon 1976), and vocative patterns
or vocative contours (Pierrehumbert 1980), The calling contour is sometimes
equated with chant (‘vocative chant’: Liberman 1975; chanted call: Gussen-
hoven 1993; spoken chant: Pike 1945), and thus to a very narrow and speciﬁc
interactive use. By referring stepping patterns in receiver-directed deixis to
chant, the pointing function is lumped together with children’s chant of the
type ‘↑Susie ↓is ↑a ↓tattle ↓tale’, because of the formal similarity of pitch
152 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
stepping instead of continuous pitch movement. Pike (1945, p. 71) deﬁnes it
as ‘CHILDHOOD TRIUMPH [which] can be gentle, a sheer effervescence of
joy, or may be maliciously taunting.’ So, the communicative function of chant
is quite different from the use of stepping patterns in a pointing ﬁeld, and the
term ‘chant’ is therefore not appropriate for the deictic signal.
Ladd (1978, 1983) introduced the concept of stylised intonation into the
analysis of stepping, with a functional perspective contrasting stereotyped,
routine, predictable communicative acts as stylised as against plain, and asso-
ciating them with stepping versus continuous pitch patterns. Ladd (1996 (2nd
edn 2008)) renounced the earlier function-form approach in the wake of AM
Phonology, and, concentrating on form, integrated stepping patterns into the
L-H and downstep framework developed for English intonation analysis. He
Figure 2.27. Spectrograms and F0 traces of stepping patterns in phrases of
thanks in German: a,‘Vielen Dank’, up-stepping stylisation of early valley;
b, ‘Danke’, up-stepping stylisation of late valley; c, ‘Danke’, high-level
stylisation of early valley; d, ‘Danke’, down-stepping stylisation of medial
peak; e, low-level stylisation of early peak. Standard German, male speaker
(KJK).
Stepping Patterns 153
not only gave up the functional orientation but also covered both types of pitch
generation by the same formal descriptive device. The concepts of stereo-
typed patterns, e.g. ’t Hart (1998), and intonation clichés, e.g. Fónagy, Bérard
and Fónagy (1983) and Di Cristo (1998), are other terms for the same idea of
semantic stylisation.
The functional approach in this monograph treats the two types of pitch
as different formal, continuous versus stepping, manifestations of distinct
Functions in their own right, unfolding in different communicative ﬁelds:
form is stylised but meaning is not – it is independently related to types of
communicative interaction. Gibbon (1998) also adopted the functional per-
spective in the analysis of (mainly) down-stepping patterns by expanding
their ﬁeld of occurrence from calling to greeting, leave-taking, thanking and
discourse repairs, and proposed, as their communicative function, the signal-
ling of ‘the opening, sustaining, and closing of a channel of communication’
(p. 91). Dombrowski (2013) developed his system of formal stylisation of
the pitch categories of KIM within such a functional framework, leading on
from the minimal two-level synthesis of German intonation by Isačenko and
Schädlich (1970). Chapter 4.1 expands this theoretical and empirical frame
by moving ‘calling contours’ from the traditionally casuistic treatment into a
comprehensive systematic function-form analysis of the use of pitch in speech
communication.
Stepping pitch may be expected to occur in all non-tone languages, linked
to sentence accents. In those languages where accents dock at lexical stress
positions in syllable chains, pitch stepping marks accented words for speciﬁc
communicative functions, especially to control interaction with a receiver. The
functional links will vary, but calling will most probably always be a func-
tion signalled by a down-stepping pattern. French differs quite considerably
from English and German in the functional uses of pitch stepping. It has been
reported in istic deixis of calls, greetings and friendly warnings, as in English
and German (Di Cristo 1998; Fagyal 1997), e.g.:
But Fagyal also mentions its occurrence in listings when the enumerated
items are not meant to give individually new information but the total list is to
refer to shared knowledge of a set relevant in the communicative situation. For
example, when a speaker lists the ingredients for a recipe, every one of which
is important for the dish, pitch will be rising on each item (Fagyal 1997 p. 84):
A Bon tten
nna jour ! tion !
A
154 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
If, instead, the speaker refers to the shared knowledge of the recipe and sim-
ply reminds the addressee of the list, down-stepping patterns are used:
This pitch pattern was already described beside several alternatives in French
enumerations by Coustenoble and Armstrong (1934). Stepping in French is not
just used as a simple control signal of interaction, it also introduces Finality
of Argumentation in Propositional Representation (see Chapter 3),
which in German and English is manifested by an early peak:
Du brauchst &2)Eier &2. und &2)Butter &2. und &2) Mehl &2. &PG
You need &2) eggs &2. and &2butter &2. and &2) ﬂour &2. &PG
In each case, pitch is high on the unaccented syllable before the accent and
then falls low into the accented syllable. The argumentative Finality in the
early peak of the ‘gelogen’ example (see 2.8) would therefore be rendered in
French by ‘Elle a menti’ with down-stepping pitch on ‘menti’, as against a
high pitch fall on the ﬁnal syllable to signal Openness, corresponding to the
German or English medial peak. Fagyal subsumes this use of down-stepping
pitch in French under implicature (p. 86).
These examples show that the functions of pitch stepping in French differ
in a fundamental way, compared with German and English. Besides serving
the Appeal function in interaction-controlling calls, greetings and friendly
warnings, they are also integrated in the Representation function. This
seems to be due to a different formal structuring of pitch patterns. In French,
accent does not mark words, but intonation phrases. An utterance is divided
into a sequence of intonation phrases according to information units, and, in
non-emotional speech, the last non-schwa syllable of each phrase receives
an accent. (The Expression function adds accents d’insistance elsewhere
word-initially.) Pitch moves up in a step-wise fashion through the syllable
chain to the phrase-ﬁnal accent. This reduces pitch movement on syllables in
non-emotional speech and creates stepping pitch patterns in the Representa-
tion function, which are then also used for certain interaction-controlling
Appeal functions. This overall stepping organisation of French neutral
œufs beurre rine …
il te faut de la
des du fa
[‘(You know...) you need eggs, butter, flour...’]
des du fa
il te œufs beurre de la rine …
faut
[You need eggs, butter, flour...]
Time-Windows in Speech Production 155
intonation patterns is an essential prosodic property contributing to the
perception of regularity of syllable sequencing. Together with the high fre-
quency of simple CV syllables in French utterances, it is at the root of catego-
rising French as a typical syllable-timed language (see 3.4).
In the sub-Saharan register tone languages, the integration of pitch stepping
into the Representation function goes even further, because every syllable
has a distinct level tone for lexical and morphological differentiation; and pitch
movement results from tone concatenation and merging. So, it is a question
for further research what other prosodic variables enter the signalling of inter-
action control, for example in calls, which can be assumed to exist as a gen-
eral category of speech communication, and whether loudness through greater
physical energy may be the prime candidate. Finally, contour tone languages
like Mandarin Chinese cannot use pitch stepping as an acoustic signal of istic
deixis. It remains an open question what other formal means are used instead,
for example in calling.
In an extension of PROLAB within KIM, a symbolisation is adopted for
stepping patterns that uses arrows pointing up or down, put in front of the syl-
lable where the higher or lower pitch level starts. This pitch level stays until the
next arrow or the end of the utterance. The accented syllable is underlined. If
an arrow pointing up or down occurs before the ﬁrst syllable of the utterance,
pitch starts high or low, respectively. A graded succession of two or more
steps up or down is marked by a series of ↑ or ↓, implying that each following
syllable is higher or lower than the preceding one. A step up or down within a
ﬁnal accented syllable is marked by one arrow at the beginning and the other
one at the end of the syllable (for examples and an illustration of the marking
conventions, see 4.1).
2.15 Time-Windows in Speech Production
The preceding sections have dealt with various signal aspects of accentuation
and intonation in speech production and perception, and have presented a net-
work of prosodic relationships. Before relating the categories of this model to
the functions of Representation, Appeal and Expression in speech inter-
action, the prosodic strand of speech needs to be integrated into an overall
framework of articulated sound production.
Speech is produced by controlling and coordinating time courses of subglot-
tal airﬂow, glottal phonation and pitch, and supra-glottal vocal-tract articula-
tion for speciﬁc communicative functions in languages. On the subglottal tier,
airﬂow is controlled in long breathing-out cycles for glottal and supra-glottal
156 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
speech production by maintaining a stable macro pressure level, which is set
on an effort scale by coordinated chest-muscle contractions (Draper, Lade-
foged and Whitteridge 1959, 1960; Ladefoged 1960; Ladefoged, Draper and
Whitteridge 1958). The force of the airﬂow determines the acoustic energy
level of sound generation at the glottis for overall loudness. It is modulated
across the glottis by phonation-type settings through laryngeal muscle control
(see Catford 1964; Laver 1980) and, in the case of quasi-periodic vibration,
by pitch. On the supra-glottal tier, coordinated movements, driven by mus-
cular force, of jaw, tongue, lips and velum generate sequences of varying
opening and closing vocal-tract conﬁgurations. They are excited by the glot-
tally modulated airﬂow, and are, in turn, organised into a language’s charac-
teristic set of different types of acoustic syllables, comprising sonorous and
asonorous parts of various duration, spectral composition and energy. The
simplest syllable type combines a closing consonant with an opening vowel
conﬁguration (CV), as in English ‘bow’. All languages have it, and some lan-
guages, such as Japanese, have no other, except for single V. In the Romance
languages, supra-glottal articulation is predominantly organised in this simple
CV way. The Germanic and the Slavonic languages have a greater variety of
more complex types, such as complex opening-closing vocal-tract conﬁgu-
rations getting integrated into a syllable, e.g. in English ‘glimpse’, segmen-
tally represented as CCVCCC, or even more complex in German ‘schimpfst’
CVCCCCC.
The activities on the three production tiers are organised in time-windows of
different extensions (Kohler 2003, 2007). The time-window on the subglottal
tier is the broadest, spanning whole utterances of the type illustrated in
Figures 2.9 and 2.10. The basic time-window on the supra-glottal tier is nar-
row, spanning the syllable. Activity on the glottal tier is either linked to the
narrow time-window of the syllable by syllable phonation and syllable pitch,
thus adding parameters of voice, voicelessness, breathy voice, creak, etc. and
tone to its speciﬁcation. Or phonation and pitch are organised in global pat-
terns, the former in long-term voice quality for expressive functions, the lat-
ter in intonation, in a separate prosody time-window in between the syllable
and the breath group. The extension of the prosody window is quite variable,
depending on how the speaker chunks the message to be conveyed to a listener.
The control of utterance intonation in a variable broad prosody time-win-
dow is demonstrated for German and English by:
• F0 downstep across the speech chunk inside a time-window and by
upstep to the speech chunk in the following window (2.4)
Time-Windows in Speech Production 157
• a high prehead extending the fall of a peak contour, and a low pre-
head extending the rise of a high valley contour, and by both patterns
signalling contrariness, as against the reversed prehead combinations
(2.11)
• high versus medial register, irrespective of local ups and downs in
pitch, coding communicative functions (2.11)
• controlling peak and valley contours as unitary intonation patterns
associated as such with communicative functions (2.7, 2.8, 2.9).
Pitch combines with syllable duration, phonation and pausing to mark the
right edges of successive prosody time-windows on a scale of terminality, e.g.
across a dialogue turn (2.12).
The narrow-window syllables are also integrated into broader supra-glottal
articulation windows in two ways:
(a) The sequencing of vocal-tract opening and closing is shaped by
long-term articulatory prosodies, of, e.g., labialisation, palatalisa-
tion, velarisation, nasalisation (Firth 1948; Kohler 1999; Kohler and
Niebuhr 2011), also including vowel harmony
• either as a purely phonetic process, for example the look-ahead ad-
justment of vocal-tract opening in non-ﬁnal syllables to that in the
ﬁnal syllable of French phrases, e.g. ‘j’étais’ [ʒɛtɛ] versus ‘j’ai été’
[ʒeete] or ‘phonologue’ [fɔnɔlɔg] versus ‘phonologie’ [fonoloʒi]
• or exploited in morphology, for example in carry-on adjustment of
liprounding/spreading and front/back from a lexical stem vowel to
sufﬁx vowels in Turkish
kol-um arm-my my arm
göz-üm-üz eye-my-plural our eyes
kol-lar-ım- ız arm-plural-my-plural our arms
göz-ler-im-iz eye-plural-your-plural your eyes
(b) The sequencing of vocal-tract opening and closing is organised in
ﬂuctuating prominence patterns in conjunction with pitch generation
in the prosody time-window on the glottal tier, and is most strongly
regularised in speciﬁc rhythm time-windows for rhetorical or poetic
functions (Kohler 2008, 2009a; cf. 2.1 and 3.4).
Intonation and prominence patterning in the prosody time-window, link-
ing the glottal and supra-glottal tiers, is used, together with syntactic form, to
structure the transmission of meaning. In 2.2 and 2.3 the category of sentence
accent is introduced to represent the prosodic structuring found in German and
158 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
English for weighting elements of information in relation to one another. In
these languages, sentence accentuation highlights lexical elements in syntactic
structures. But not all languages behave like this, because languages differ
in how they insert words in syntax and how they dock prosodic patterns on
the lexical syllable chain. In the West Germanic and other sentence-accent
languages, words have lexical stress, which abstractly marks a syllable in a
lexical item that functions as a docking place for a sentence accent when the
lexical item is to be highlighted (2.5, 2.6). Prominence-lending syllable fea-
tures achieve this (2.7, 2.8). In the West Germanic languages, accentuation
not only increases the prominence of the stressed syllable of the lexical item
to be highlighted but also complements it by decreasing the prominences of
surrounding, especially following, unstressed syllables, by reducing the timing
and extension of their articulatory movements (see 2.6) and by integrating their
pitch into the rising-falling peak or the falling-rising valley patterns docked at
the stressed syllables (see 2.1). Reduction is strongest in English, where vowel
centralisation and elision commonly occur. The combined pitch-articulation
patterns in sentence accentuation can create the temporal prominence regular-
ity characteristic of the so-called stress-timed languages (see 3.4). This is one
more reason for categorising peak and valley patterns as unitary intonation
contours (see 2.7).
Not all sentence-accent languages have complementary unstressed sylla-
ble reduction. Spanish and Italian, although lexical-stress languages, do not
have it, and in view of the preponderance of CV syllables, they give the audi-
tory impression of a very regular rhythmic syllable ﬂow characteristic of the
so-called syllable-timed languages (see 3.4). This is even more prominent in
Spanish than in Italian because, in the latter, there is a dyadic relation of long
vowel + short consonant or short vowel + long consonant in stressed syllables
of disyllables, interfering with an even CV ﬂow.
Among the Romance languages, French stands out in lacking lexical stress,
which means that lexical items are not weighted in relation to one another by
sentence accents docking at lexical stress positions. Lexical items are inte-
grated into the supra-glottal articulation, the prominence pattern and the into-
nation of the phrase. Lexical items thus do not have a stable phonological form.
Rather, syntax-based utterance phrasing determines the shape of lexical items,
even the formation of lexical compounds, as is shown by constructions like
‘boîte aux lettres’, ‘porte-manteaux’, ‘porte-clefs’, as against English ‘letter
box’, ‘coat rack’, ‘key ring’, or German ‘Briefkasten’, ‘Garderobenständer’,
‘Schlüsselring’. In German and English, the specifying part of the compound is
positioned before its general referent and receives a sentence accent docked at
Time-Windows in Speech Production 159
the lexical stress syllable of the specifying part. In French the order is reversed,
and the phrase receives a prominence pattern with an increase on its ﬁnal sylla-
ble to mark different phrase-boundary strengths, thus weighting phrases, rather
than lexical items, in relation to one another in meaning transmission. This
may be called a phrase accent (different from AM Phonology) as against a
word-bound sentence accent. Vaissière (2006) refers to French as une langue à
frontières (p. 100) with different degrees of boundary strength (p. 97) marking
the ends of sentences and prosodic phrases within them (pp. 109ff).
The graded raising of prominence at the right edge of phrases is achieved by
duration, pitch and vocal-tract control of the last syllable. Duration increases
with the syntactic hierarchy from mot phonétique to phrase prosodique to utter-
ance ending. In non-expressive speech, pitch moves up stepwise to the last or
the penultimate syllable of a phrase, depending on non-ﬁnal or ﬁnal utterance
position, and on statement or question mode. In statements, the pitch of the
utterance-ﬁnal syllable drops low. The combination of pitch and duration gener-
ates a prominence proﬁle that culminates at the right edge of a prosody window,
thus adding prosodic marking to syntactic phrases in utterances. This may be
illustrated by the following examples of French phrasing distinctions, and com-
pared with the equivalent English and German accentuation differences:
(a) un acteur de cinéma | muet || [a silent actor in ﬁlms]
a &2^silent &0. &2^ﬁlm actor &2. &PG
ein &2^stummer &0. &2 Filmschauspieler &2. &PG
(b) un acteur | de cinéma muet || [an actor in silent ﬁlms]
a &2^silent &1. &1^ﬁlm actor &2. &PG
ein &2^Stummﬁlm &1. &1 schauspieler &2. &PG
(Fónagy 2003, p. 4; | marks the weaker internal, || the stronger ﬁnal boundary)
The adjectival attribute ‘muet’ is syntactically determined to follow the
nominal head, which is either a nominal phrase in (a) or a noun inside another
nominal phrase in (b). Since the syntactic and lexical forms are the same for
both structures, prosodic phrasing takes over, distinguishing between them by
bracketing either ‘un acteur de cinéma’ or ‘de cinéma muet’ prosodically. In
(a), the last syllable of the ﬁrst prosodic phrase is lengthened before a pitch
drop, with greater lengthening on the adjective in the second prosodic phrase.
The same duration and pitch structuring is applied to the ﬁrst prosodic phrase
in (b); the second prosodic phrase follows, with a renewed stepwise rise to the
penultimate syllable and a fall on the lengthened ﬁnal syllable.
This prosodic phrasing of syntactic structures in French contrasts with the
graded accentual weighting of simplex and compound lexical items in the
160 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
corresponding syntactic structures of English and German. Both these lan-
guages differentiate pre-nominal adjectival attribution, additionally inﬂected
in German, and compound formation, which goes much further in German.
French and the Germanic languages are thus diametrically opposed in the way
they use the prosody window to structure glottal sound production: either for
prosodic phrasing or for sentence accentuation. This casts doubt on the ade-
quacy of adopting the AM pitch accent concept, worked out for English, in the
analysis of French prosody (Jun and Fougeron 2002).
There is an accent category in French that is not used for information weight-
ing but for the Expression function to intensify the meaning of words. This
accent d’insistance manifests itself on the ﬁrst syllable of a word that begins
with a consonant, including a glottal stop initiating a word-initial vowel, by
increased duration of this consonant, and raised F0 as well as energy of the
vowel, for example in ‘c’est épouvantable!’ (Grammont 1934, pp. 139ff).
Consequently, the transfer of Germanic accentuation into French by speakers
of German or English is perceived by the French ear as continual insistence and
emphasis (Vaissière pers. comm.). A similar intensifying accent does occur in
the Germanic languages as well. It is related to intensiﬁcation in Expressive
High Key and is grafted onto the general sentence accentuation that marks
information structure (see 5.1). On the other hand, there is, of course, also
prosodic phrasing by timing, pitch, phonation and pausing/breathing in the
Germanic languages (see 2.12), but it operates in a broader time frame than
the prosody window on the glottal tier, including breath control and pausing
to mark higher-order speech chunking in information structure, extending to
dialogue turns. This prosodic phrasing belongs to human speech generally,
although the prosodic manisfestations may change between languages.
Whilst the edges of the prosody time-window mark syntactic boundaries
in French, lexical boundaries inside the prosodic phrase are disregarded, and
bridged by historically conditioned prevocalic liaison. This results in the
occurrence of strings of open CV syllables, which is nicely illustrated by Vais-
sière (2006, p. 112) with the sentences:
Cet homme | est énormément bête. [This man is enormously stupid.]
Cet homme est énorme, | et
m’embête.
[This man is enormous, and annoys me.]
They both contain the same sequences of vocal-tract opening and closing,
which are organised as two prosodic phrases in two different ways. In both
sentences, both phrases end in prominent closed syllables, and the phrase-
internal syllables are open, with the exception of ‘-nor-’ in the ﬁrst sentence.
Time-Windows in Speech Production 161
Closed syllables in the prosodically marked phrase-ﬁnal position increase its
prominence and thus contrast it more strongly with the even prominence ﬂow
of open syllables preceding it. This vocal-tract structuring inside the prosody
window is a rich source for word play. For example, in:
[Louis XVIII on his deathbed, addressing his doctors around him and
referring to his successor to the throne, Charles X]
Allons! Finissons-en, Charles attend!
[Come on! Let’s get it over with, Charles is waiting / charlatans!]
‘Charles attend’ and ‘charlatans’ become identical as [ʃaʁlatɑ̃].
The generation of an even prominence ﬂow of syllables inside prosodic
phrases is further supported by breaking up heavy consonant clustering into
vocal-tract [ə] openings. This is the segmental phrase-phonetic phenomenon of
e caduc in Standard (Parisian) French, which has been dealt with extensively
in the literature for over a century from the point of view of elision or preser-
vation of historical [ə]. The discussion was started by Grammont (1894). He
formulated la loi des trois consonnes, which states that [ə] can be elided if it
does not result in a cluster of two consonants before a syllable onset conso-
nant. There is the word-initial consonant cluster [fn] after the deﬁnite article in
‘la f(e)nêtre’ [the window], but a vocal-tract opening [fən] after the indeﬁnite
article or the numeral in ‘un(e) fenêtre’. Further examples are ‘portefeuill(e)’
[wallet], ‘quatre-vingt’ [eighty], ‘quat(re) chevaux’ [four horses, 4hp Citroën
car] versus ‘deux ch(e)vaux’ [two horses, 2hp Citroën car]. This is paralleled
by the optional deletion and obligatory preservation, respectively, of [rə] in
‘arb(re) de Noël’ [Christmas tree] versus ‘arbre vert’ [green tree].
The name la loi des trois consonnes does not capture the facts of e caduc
adequately and leads to misunderstanding. The occurrence of two conso-
nants before a syllable onset necessitates a vocal-tract opening into [ə]; the
occurrence of only one consonant allows consonant clustering, and thus the
reduction of a syllable, irrespective of the number of consonants following
the juncture. Thus, ‘Il n’a pas d(e) scrupules’ [He has no scruples] (Grammont
1934, p. 113) is perfectly regular because [d] closes the previous syllable, and
[skr] is a possible syllable- and word-initial cluster. Similarly, involving two
e caduc, ‘Tu me demand(es) c(e) que c’est? [You’re asking me what this is?]
(Grammont 1934, p. 113) has regular syllable coda and onset phonotactics and
thus does not require a vocal-tract opening into [ə], although it is a sequence
of three cononants. What determines consonant clustering or [ə] breaking is
that, in the sequencing of vocal tract closing and opening, a single consonant
can form a regular closing syllable before the next syllable onset, whereas two
162 Prosody in a Functional Framework: KIM
consonants cannot. (This is actually how Grammont (1934, p. 105f) describes
the ‘law’ in his text.) This principle operates continually through the vocal-
tract sequencing in an utterance, and in the case of a series of e caduc results
in an alternation of clustering and [ə] breaking, because clustering requires
subsequent breaking, which in turn allows clustering, e.g. ‘Qu’est-c(e) que j(e)
te disais?’ [What did I tell you?]. Although preservation has been considered
the default state from the historical perspective, breaking of consonant clusters
by [ə] opening is more widespread and can be independent of an historical [ə]
antecedent, as in ‘ours [ə] blanc’ [polar bear], or in popular speech ‘Arc [ə]
d(e) Triomphe’ (Grammont 1934, p. 105).
Further data analysis, for example by Delattre (1948, 1949, 1951, 1966),
Léon (1966) and Malécot (1976), has shown that e caduc is a multifaceted
phrasal phenomenon that cannot be captured fully by la loi des trois con-
sonnes. Speaking style has always been regarded as the overriding factor: the
more formal it is, the more [ə] are preserved. Within the generally selected
educated speech level, articulatory force, monotonic aperture decrease and
back-to-front sequence in surrounding consonants, position in the phrase and
rhythm have been adduced as phonetic factors determining elision, in addi-
tion to the number of consonants preceding a syllable juncture. For instance,
if there is a non-schwa syllable before the phrase-ﬁnal one, a preceding [ə]
can be absent, although a cluster of two pre-juncture consonants results, as in
‘port(e)-manteaux’ [coat rack], but [ə] is preserved in the absence of such a
non-schwa penultimate syllable, as in ‘portefeuille’ [wallet].
These data point the way to an insightful interpretation of e caduc (cf. Kohler
2002, 2007). The phenomenon should be dissociated from its historical origin
and treated as an integral part of organising prosodic phrases in French. In
this view, e caduc is no longer regarded as a segmental phoneme /ə/, which is
either preserved or elided, but as a syllable juncture, linking consonants to the
next syllable onset in a prosodic phrase. The articulatory exponent of this junc-
ture is consonant clustering or vocal-tract [ə] opening, depending on speech
style and prosodic variables of the phrase. Both manifestations contribute to
an even prominence ﬂow of syllables up to the ﬁnal one in a prosodic phrase,
which receives increased prominence to mark the right edge of the prosodic
time-window. If there were no opening of [rt] into [ə] in ‘portefeuille’, or of
[rb] into [ə] in ‘arbre vert’, the heavy consonant clustering [rtf] or [rbv] would
increase the prominence of the penultimate syllable and would thus disturb the
prominence proﬁle in the right-bound prosody phrase.
This data assessment is further underscored by transcriptions in Passy and
Rambeau (1918):
Time-Windows in Speech Production 163
(a) Les choses en restent là pour l’instant.
[leʃoːz | ɑ̃ rɛstə la | pur lɛ̃stɑ̃. ǀǀ] (p. 16, ə in italics = optional)
(b) Le bonhomme, qui n’avait pas grande littérature, ne comprends pas et reste
là, tout confus.
[lə bɔnɔmː, | ki n avɛ pɑ | ɡrɑ̃d literatyːr, | nə kɔ̃ˑprɑ̃ pɑ | e rɛstə la, ǀǀ tu
kɔ̃ˑfy.ǀǀ] (p.18)1
Bold type indicates prominent syllables, | and || utterance internal and ﬁnal
prosodic phrase boundaries, respectively. The strongest boundaries are at the
end of each sentence and after the ﬁfth prosodic phrase in (b). Next in strength
are the boundaries after the ﬁrst, third and fourth prosodic phrases in (b) (also
marked by ﬁnal consonant lengthening), which may be further graded ﬁrst,
third > fourth; the second boundary is the weakest. In the case of reste là
preceding such a strong boundary, [ə] is obligatory before the immediately
following ﬁnal syllable. In the ﬁrst sentence, however, the boundary between
‘en restent là’ and ‘pour l’instant’ is weaker, due to the greater semantic unity,
and [ə] may be absent or present depending on how strong the speaker wants to
mark the boundary. Thus, the analysis of e caduc has progressed from segmen-
tal exponents in narrow syllabic frames to articulatory sequencing in extended
phrasal time windows bounded by pitch and prominence proﬁles.
1 The two French quotations may be freely translated into English as:
(a) [Things are left at that for the time being.]
(b) [The good man, who was not very literary, does not understand and is left all confused.]
Neither translates the crucial phrase ‘reste(nt) là’ literally, and therefore does not connect with
the subsequent discussion of the phonetic realisations. So, the translations do not give the reader
any additional help in understanding it. This is the reason why the translations are not provided
in the main text, with the simple assumption that the lingustic reader – even without any knowl-
edge of French – will be guided by the phonetic transcription and will thus be able to relate the
phonetic explanation to the utterances.
164
3 The REPRESENTATION Function
This chapter picks up Bühler’s notion of the two-dimensional symbolic, syn-
semantic ﬁeld of linguistic signs in linguistic contexts, for the function of Rep-
resentation. It is structured by morphology and syntax on the one hand and
by prosodic phrasing on the other. Although it may be completely dissociated
from the deictic ﬁeld, and from a receiver in a communicative situation, for
example in logical propositions, it does make use of deictic signs for anaphoric
reference in the symbolic ﬁeld. These signs are related to the ones used in the
deictic ﬁeld, but they are integrated into the morphology and syntax of the
symbolic ﬁeld. In everyday speech communication, however, linguistic signs
and structures are always linked to a Sender and a Receiver anchored in the
communicative context to varying degrees, according to the situation depend-
ence of speech actions. For explanatory insight into speech interaction, the
analysis of syntagmatic structuring of messages needs to be put in relation to
communicative functions in contexts of situation.
The reference of the Representation function is the world of Objects and
Factual Relations constructed with symbolic signs by a sender through AAA
and GOV channels. The principal category of this function is the Statement,
by which the sender sets out aspects of the world in their own right, as seen
by the sender, separate from an Appeal to the receiver. Another type of Rep-
resentation function results from combining a Statement with an Appeal
to receivers to assess their own potential actions, in their own interest, in rela-
tion to facts set out in the Statement. This is the Recommendation func-
tion, which either points to harmful or beneﬁcial effects that the facts may have
on the receiver in subsequent action. The former, negative, Recommendation
is a Warning. For example, a pictorial road sign, meaning ‘Beware of falling
rock!’, or a road sign with the written word ‘Floods’, warns motorists of natu-
ral dangers for their driving. The message ‘Smoking kills’ on cigarette packets
gives a health warning, latterly intensiﬁed with a picture of rotten teeth. On
a path along a river, a notice may inform walkers ‘After prolonged spells of
rain this path becomes impassable.’ In face-to-face interaction, or in an e-mail
The REPRESENTATION Function 165
message, a sender may say to a receiver, ‘You shouldn’t take the path along the
river, it will be very muddy and slippy, and may even be ﬂooded after all the
rain we have had.’ A Warning leaves it to the receiver to heed it, but makes a
strong case for consequences when it is ignored. This appeal to a free-will de-
cision distinguishes a Warning from a Command, for example the message
‘Stop!’ of a red trafﬁc light, or the notice ‘No trespassing!’ at the entrance to a
ﬁeld, or the written message ‘Smoking is not allowed in this ofﬁce’ displayed
on a board at the entrance.
The positive Recommendation may be a Proposal in personal interac-
tion, such as proposing a toast at a birthday party, or suggesting action to be
taken, or it may be an advert in public Advertising, for example on televi-
sion, to get receivers to buy the products praised in Statements. It may be
required by law to add a negative Warning to the Advertising of certain
products, especially in the medical ﬁeld. For example, German television is
full of adverts for pharmaceutical products that are available without a doctor’s
prescription, and they are all followed by the full-screen written message ‘Zu
Risiken und Nebenwirkungen lesen Sie die Packungsbeilage und fragen Sie
Ihren Arzt oder Apotheker’ [As regards risks and side effects, you are advised
to read the leaﬂet in the packet and ask your doctor or chemist]. This message
is not only presented via the GOV but also via the AAA channel to ensure
that receivers take notice of it. But in order to keep the harmful effects low in
prominence, the receiver is referred to other sources of information, and the
text is read at very high speed.
Another Representation function results from an Appeal overlay on a
Statement when the sender refers to past or future action that clashed or may
clash with the receiver’s expectation, and asks the listener to understand and
forgive. This is the function of Apology, which includes varying degrees of
Expression of contrition, such as ‘I’m terribly sorry I didn’t make it to the
scheduled meeting this morning. I had to go and urgently see a dentist with
excruciating toothache’, or ‘I’m afraid we won’t be able to come to your party
tonight, we have to babysit our grandson. Pity, but I am sure you’ll understand.’
The chapter focuses on the Statement function, primarily via the AAA
channel. It deals with syntagmatic organisation by syntactic structure and pro-
sodic phrasing in German and English. The two formal devices are basically
independent of each other. Prosodic phrasing may converge with, or diverge
from, syntactic structure for efﬁcient chunking of meaning transmission to a
listener. A Statement may be a non-sentential syntactic element (‘ellipsis’),
e.g. in response to a question, or a single sentence in declarative syntax, or a
sentential structure of main and subsidiary clauses, or a sequence of sentences.
Section 3.1 deals with syntactic structures, accentuation and prosodic phrasing.
166 The REPRESENTATION Function
The discussion then moves to Information Selection and Weighting and
their formal manifestations along a scale from segmental reduction to seg-
mental elaboration in 3.2, and develops a distinction between Information
Structure and Argumentation in 3.3. The former refers to the factual
world; the latter is the result of the speaker’s view of objects and relations un-
der the categories of Finality, Openness, Contrast and Unexpectedness.
Section 3.4 supplements the grammatical account of symbolic ﬁeld structures
by a description of patterns of principally independent rhythmic organisation
as an important Guide function in meaning transmission to a listener.
3.1 Syntagmatic Organisation of Statements
3.1.1 Declarative Syntactic Structures
Syntactic structure is not an interlevel between function and prosody, but is re-
lated to function in parallel with the prosodic level. In 1.3, functional relations
between semantic constituents were distinguished from syntactic structures
between formal elements:
A German or English Statement like
Martin trifft seinen alten Kumpel heute Nachmittag in der Stadt.
Martin is meeting his old pal in town this afternoon.
contains the following semantic constituents:
<Action> <Agent> <Goal> <Time> <Place>
In German, the default syntactic order is:
In English, it is:
In both languages, the inﬂected verb or the auxiliary of a verbal phrase ﬁlls
the second structural slot. In German, the uninﬂected verb of a verbal phrase,
e.g. ‘will treffen’, ‘hat getroffen’ is put at the end of the sentence: ‘Martin will
seinen alten Kumpel heute Nachmittag in der Stadt treffen.’
<ACTION/OCCURRENCE> <AGENT> <GOAL> <RECIPIENT> <TIME> <PLACE> <MANNER>
<verb> <subject> <indirect object> <adverbial or prepositional phrases>
<AGENT> <ACTION> <GOAL> <TIME> <PLACE>
<subject> <verb> <direct object> <adv phrase> <prep phrase>
<Martin> <trifft> <seinen alten Kumpel> <heute Nachmittag> <in der Stadt>.
<AGENT > <ACTION> <GOAL> <PLACE> <TIME>
<subject> <verb> <direct object> <prep phrase> <adv phrase>
<Martin> <is meeting> <his old pal> <in town> <this afternoon>.
Syntagmatic Organisation of STATEMENTS 167
Whereas in English, the Statement syntax is rigid, in German, <Action>
can be put on its <Time> and <Place> coordinates by moving the <Time>
adjunct, or both adjuncts in either order, into the position immediately after
the inﬂected verb:
In the default structure, <Action> is propositionally bracketed with
<Goal>; in the structural derivatives, it is bracketed with the coordinates of
<Time> or <Place>. The propositional division after or before <Goal> may
be prosodically marked by either upstep on the constituent following the divi-
sion, or by a weak phrase boundary &PG1 (see 2.12), with a low-rising valley
pattern (continuation rise) preceding it. This gives the constituent after the di-
vision, <Time> in default or <Goal> in the other structures, more prominence
and more information weight. If <Agent> and <Goal> are ﬁlled by pro-
nouns (e.g. ‘er’ [he], ‘ihn’ [him] in the above examples), they must be proclitic
or enclitic to the verb, because pronouns are by default unaccented function
words.
The fourth possibility of ordering <Place> closely before <Goal> and
<Time>
*Martin trifft <Place in der Stadt> seinen alten Kumpel < Time heute Nachmittag>.
sounds disorganised when <Time> is accented, as it violates default struc-
ture. However, when <Time> is unaccented, with a low-falling peak contour
preceding, it is marked as a given coordinate for the <Action> in the commu-
nicative situation and therefore makes a well-formed sentence. This is also true
when <Manner> ‘zum Kaffee’ [for coffee] is appended, with a hat pattern
spanning the ﬁnal three accents of <Goal> <Time> <Manner.
The only ﬂexibility of structural ordering in English Statements occurs
when a <Time> or <Place> coordinate for an <Action> is picked up from a
preceding interchange as the theme for a new proposition
<Time This afternoon>, Martin is meeting his old pal in town.
Martin <ACTION trifft> <TIME heute Nachmittag> <GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>
< PLACE in der Stadt >.
Martin <ACTION trifft> <TIME heute Nachmittag> < PLACE in der Stadt >
<GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>.
Martin <ACTION trifft> <PLACE in der Stadt> < TIME heute Nachmittag>
<GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>.
<AGENT Er> <ACTION trifft> <GOAL ihn> <TIME heute Nachmittag>
<PLACE in der Stadt>.
and with anaphoric pointing
<Martin is taking the 2.30 bus into town.
<Place There>, he will be meeting his old pal for coffee.
The initial position of <Time> or <Place> stays outside the Statement
structure. It is also marked prosodically by a peak-valley pattern and a strong
phrase boundary &PG>1 (see 2.12), setting the theme to which the sentence
then provides the rheme.
Either <Time> or <Place> can also be put initially in a German State-
ment:
<Time Heute Nachmittag> trifft Martin seinen alten Kumpel zum Kaffee in
der Stadt.
Martin fährt mit dem Bus um 14 Uhr 30 in die Stadt. <Place Dort> trifft er
seinen alten Kumpel zum Kaffee.
It requires prosodic intensiﬁcation, for example by a late peak &2(Nachmit-
tag. Again, this fronting creates a theme-rheme structure, but, different from
English, the theme <Time> or <Place> is integrated in the syntactic structure
of the Statement, with the effect that the obligatory verb-second position
necessitates the post-verb placement of subject, and that the theme cannot be
set apart by a strong phrase boundary.
The exposition of Statement in German and English has so far focused on
propositions that relate <Agent> and <Goal> to <Action>, with <Time>
and <Place> coordinates as secondary attributes, manifested by various
orderings of subject, object, verbal, adverbial and prepositional phrases in
syntactic structures. Let us now take a look at propositions of <Event
Occurrence>, such as ‘X ereignet sich’ [X occurs], ‘X ﬁndet statt’ [X takes
place], ‘X tritt auf’ [X happens], ‘es gibt X’ [there is/are X], for which <Time>
and <Place> coordinates are primary. In general, <Event Occurrence> is
separated into <Event subject> and <Occurrence verb> in both languages,
and the syntactic pattern parallels the one found for <Action>. In German, the
basic Statement structure is, e.g.:
< EVENT subject> <OCCURRENCE verb infl> <TIME>
<Der jährliche Bauernmarkt> <findet> <am Wochenende>
<PLACE> <OCCURRENCE verbal adjunct>
< auf Gut Emkendorf> <statt>.
168 The REPRESENTATION Function
In English:
The deﬁnite article and the adjectival attribute of the <Event> specify a
particular type of ‘market’ that recurs. It is the theme for a proposition that
provides <time> and <Place> for the upcoming occasion. On the other
hand, if <Event> is left indeﬁnite, ‘ein Bauernmarkt’ [a farmers’ market], the
<Event> theme structure is not used, but is replaced by a structure that spec-
iﬁes <Time> and <Place> and associates an <Event> with them. In German
we get:
In English:
Whereas English introduces <Occurrence verbal phrase> and <Event
subject> and then adds <Place> and <Time> to it, in this ﬁxed order, German
locates <Occurrence verb> in <Time> and <Place> and relates <Event
subject> to them. Since <verb> must be in second structural position in a
Statement, the dummy subject placeholder ‘es’ is put initially in an imper-
sonal verb construction. The order of <Time> and <Place> is again free, and
may be sentence-initial, making the dummy placeholder superﬂuous:
There is a class of compound verbs in German that follow the sentence struc-
ture of verb + prepositional phrase in their morphology. ‘heimfahren’ follows
‘nach Hause fahren’ [drive home]:
< EVENT subject> <OCCURRENCE verbal phrase>
<The annual farmers’ market> <will take place>
<PLACE>> <TIME >
<on the Emkendorf Estate> <this weekend>.
<OCCURRENCE verb infl impers> <TIME> <PLACE>
<Es findet> <am Wochenende> <auf Gut Emkendorf>
<EVENT subject> <OCCURRENCE verbal adjunct>
<ein Bauernmarkt> <statt>.
< OCCURRENCE verbal phrase> <EVENT subject> <PLACE>
<There will be> <a farmers’ market> <on the Emkendorf Estate>
<TIME>
<this weekend>.
<PLACE Auf Gut Emkendorf> <OCCURRENCE infl findet> < TIME am Wochenende>
<EVENT subject ein Bauernmarkt> <OCCURRENCE uninfl statt>.
<TIME Am Wochenende> <OCCURRENCE infl findet> <PLACE auf Gut Emkendorf>
<EVENT subject ein Bauernmarkt> <OCCURRENCE uninfl statt>.
Syntagmatic Organisation of STATEMENTS 169
er fährt nach Hause er fährt heim
er wird nach Hause fahren er wird heimfahren
er ist nach Hause gefahren er ist heimgefahren
When the verbal part of the compound verb is inﬂected, it is in the second
structural position in the declarative syntax of a Statement; when it is unin-
ﬂected – inﬁnitive or past participle – it is put sentence-ﬁnal. The adjunct part
is in the same syntactic slot as a prepositional or adverbial phrase. Other verbs
in this class that can no longer be considered to model the semantic constitu-
ents <Action/Occurrence> + <Place> by verb + prepositional phrase in
their verb + adjunct morphology still behave in the same way, e.g. ‘es ﬁndet
statt’ – ‘es wird stattﬁnden’ – ‘es hat stattgefunden’. Here phrase-structure
syntax has been completely morphologised. The verbal adjunct in these com-
pound verbs receives the lexical stress, and a sentence accent docks at this
stress position when the compound verb is to be made semantically prominent.
3.1.2 Accent Patterns
In both German and English Statements, the syntactic form of each seman-
tic constituent has the potential for receiving an accent, depending on how
the speaker wants to weight their mutual semantic relevance in the commu-
nicative situation. If all the semantic constituents of Statement are given
equal weight, they all receive accent &2. Grading may be introduced by upstep
and downstep. Upstep produces phrasing through increased prominence of the
upstepped accented element, complemented by subsequent downstep in peak
patterns; it may occur at any point (see 2.4). If a propositional constituent is
coded by a syntactic phrase, the head receives the accent &2 or &1. Depending
on the weighting given to the qualiﬁers, they may also be accented as &2 or
&1, or may be downgraded to &1 or &0. When an <Action/Occurrence>
is speciﬁed for several semantic attributes, especially <Place> and <Time>,
its verbal form may be backgrounded to &1 or even to &0. Typical phrasings
are (with unaccented function words unmarked):
<&2Martin> <&1trifft> <seinen &1alten &2Kumpel> <&1heute &|2Nachmittag>
<in der &2Stadt>.
<&2Martin> <will> <seinen &1alten &2Kumpel> <&1heute &|2Nachmittag>
<in der &2Stadt> <&1treffen>.
<&2Martin> <is &1meeting> <his &1old &2pal> <in &2town> <this &|2aftern'oon>.
<&2Martin> <will &1meet> <his &1old &2pal> <in &2town> <this &|2aftern'oon>.
<Der &1jährliche &2Bauernnmarkt><&0findet><am &2Wochenende>
<auf &1Gut &2Emkendorf> <&1statt>.
<Der &1jährliche &2Bauernnmarkt><wird> <am &2Wochenende>
<auf &1Gut &2Emkendorf> <&1stattfinden>.
<The &1annual &0farmers’ &2market> <will &0take &1place>
<on the &2Emkendorf &2Estate> <this &1week&2end>.
170 The REPRESENTATION Function
In the above examples, &1 subordinates <Action/Occurrence> to its se-
mantic attributes of <Place>, <Time>, <Goal> and <Event>; &0 makes it
semantically irrelevant for the Statement. Complete deaccentuation &0 of
German sentence-ﬁnal verbal adjuncts or uninﬂected verb forms concomitant-
ly increases the weighting of the preceding constituent, highlighting one to-
ken of <Place> etc. against others. &2 sets <Action/Occurrence> against
non-<Action/Occurrence>. For &0 the associated pitch trails a preceding
peak or valley pattern; for &1 the preceding peak fall or valley rise is broken
to add a minor pattern; for &2 a separate peak or valley is created (see 2.1).
Default accentuation &2 may also be combined with upstep.
Any part of the syntactic structure, representing a semantic constituent of the
proposition, may be put in focus by deaccenting all other structural elements; in
addition, the focus may be reinforced to accent &3. In communicative interac-
tion, a speaker decides on how many of these backgrounded constituents may
be formally omitted because they can be inferred by the listener, for example:
A: Has our farmers’ market been advertised yet?
B: Yes, as usual, on the Emkendorf Estate next weekend.
3.1.3 Prosodic Phrasing
The discussion of prosodic phrasing in 2.12 showed that ﬁnely graded prosodic
properties are essential for a highly skilled syntagmatic semantic organisation
of Statements. On the other hand, prosodic structuring may bridge syntactic
boundaries between sentences:
Er &1^sagt, er hat &2^kein &0. &2^Geld mehr &2. &PG4
He &1^says he has &2^no &0. &2^money left &2. &PG4
Inside weakly graded sentences, syntactic structures are also bridged prosod-
ically by the use of hat patterns and peak downstep. These prosodic devices
may bind the syntactic units representing the semantic constituents <Action>
<Agent> <Goal> on the one hand and <Time> <Place> on the other. The
division between these two complexes is only weakly marked by a peak dip
&1. between the two hat patterns.
&2^Martin &0trifft seinen &0alten &0. &2^Kumpel &0heute &1.
&2^Nachmittag in der &0. &2)Stadt &2. &PG4
&2^Martin’s &0meeting his &0old &0. &2^pal in &1. &2^town this &0.
&1-after&2)noon &2. &PG4
But more ﬁnely structured delivery introduces prosodic boundaries between
syntactic units. Thus, the two syntactic groups for the <Action> complex
Syntagmatic Organisation of STATEMENTS 171
and for the <Time> and <Place> coordinates may be separated by a phrase
boundary &PG1 and by a continuation rise leading up to it.
&2^Martin &0trifft seinen &0alten &2. &2]Kumpel &, &PG1 &0heute
&2^Nachmittag in der &0. &2)Stadt &2. &PG4
&2^Martin’s &0meeting his &0old &2. &2[pal &, &PG1 in &2^town this
&0. &1-after&2)noon &2. &PG4
The more deliberate or even insistent a speaker becomes, the more syntac-
tic units will be marked by phrase boundaries. Other possibilities of marking
sentence-internal syntactic structures prosodically are upstep (see examples in
3.1.2) or a combination of upstep with phrasing boundaries.
Different prosodic grouping of syntactic units may change the meaning of a
Statement, as in the following example.
In March 1983, two parliamentary elections took place in Schleswig-Hol-
stein. There was ﬁrst the general election to the federal parliament, and a week
later the election to the Schleswig-Holstein parliament. At the federal election,
the Green Party had gained a substantial number of votes at the expense of
the Social Democrats. In order to avoid this happening again and ruining their
chances of winning the election, the leader of the Social Democrats published
a large advert in a local Kiel newspaper on the day before the election. It con-
tained the following passage:
Ich bitte alle Wähler, die am letzten Sonntag grün gewählt haben, ihre Stimme
morgen nicht zu verschenken und SPD zu wählen.
[I ask all the voters who voted for the Green Party last Sunday not to waste
their votes tomorrow, by voting SPD.]
The advert addressed two requests to those who had voted for the Green Party:
Don’t waste your votes. Vote SPD.
When spoken, the meaning of these two requests would be transmitted by two
prosodic phrases:
ihre &2^Stimme morgen nicht zu &1. &2^verschenken &2. &PG2 und
&2^SP’D zu wählen &2. &PG4
not to &2^waste their &2^votes tomorrow &2. &PG2 by &2^voting
&2^SP’D &2. &PG4
With one prosodic phrase for a single request, we get:
ihre &2^Stimme morgen nicht zu &1. &2^verschenken und &1. &2(SP’D
zu wählen &2. &PG4
not to &2^waste their &2^votes tomorrow &1. by &2^voting &1. &2^SP’D
&2., &PG4
172 The REPRESENTATION Function
This prosodic phrasing of the same sequence of syntactic elements transmits
exactly the opposite meaning: ‘Don’t vote SPD – that would be a waste of
votes.’ Here ‘und SPD zu wählen’ or ‘by voting SPD’ qualiﬁes ‘waste’, where-
as in the two-request version there are two independent phrases with separate
actions: ‘not wasting votes’ and ‘voting SPD’. This difference can be indicated
in English writing by the presence or absence of a comma before ‘by’. German
punctuation rules do not allow this differentiation. Of course, the context of
situation made it quite clear which meaning was intended by the advert, and it
is very unlikely that anybody else apart from a phonetic nitpicker noticed the
potential ambiguity in the written text. But on many occasions when I present-
ed this example orally in talks to large German audiences it was immediately
understood and received with laughter. This conﬁrms listeners’ awareness of
syntagmatic prosodic organisation imposed on syntactic structure in the coding
of communicative meaning.
A continuation rise inside single-sentence or multi-sentence Statements
signals to the listener that the speaker has not ﬁnished talking. If this signal
is combined with the Appeal to the listener to stay connected, the stimulat-
ing high-rising valley is used in some types of English (High-Rising Terminal
(HRT), see 2.10). In the types of German and English this monograph is based
on, pitch tends to end low or falling in fact- and speaker-oriented terminal
Statements. Concern for the listener intervenes as the speaker qualiﬁes the
validity of a Statement by phrases of the type I think, I suppose, may be,
question tags, by ﬁnal low-rising pitch and by voice quality (breathy voice).
It has been reported for some Irish, Scottish and Northern English accents
(Urban North British, UNB) that pitch in terminal Statements is also rising
(cf. Ladd 1978, pp. 123ff and 143ff). This topic will not be discussed here
because in order to assess it faithfully it would be necessary to describe the
whole function-form systems that are used in each of these varieties, and this
is largely unknown territory.
3.1.4 Look-ahead Prosodic Phrasing: The Classiﬁed Football Results
on BBC Radio
Since there are dependencies between prosodic sections in syntagmatic pars-
ing, it must be possible, in certain constellations, for a listener to detect early
on how a pattern will develop. Such phrase-internal cues to the continuation
of the next phrase can be illustrated by the classiﬁed football results on BBC
radio. The ritual of listening to them at teatime on a Saturday was, in the days
of coming into big money through the pools, an exciting game to guess, after
the ﬁrst club and score had been read, whether the match was a draw, or a
Syntagmatic Organisation of STATEMENTS 173
home or an away win. In the 1950s–60s they were read by John Webster,
who set the pattern; in 1974 James Alexander Gordon (JAG) took over and
continued it with modiﬁcations until 2013. Their patterns of prosodic phrasing
were so transparent that the whole nation was able to decide correctly, e.g. in
‘Manchester United 2, (Arsenal 2/Arsenal 3/Arsenal 1)’. In the case of a draw,
there is only one high-rising accent on the ﬁrst name, and the pitch of the score
levels out. In the other two cases, there are two accents, on the name and the
score; they may both be rising, or falling(-rising), but for an away win, they are
less extensive, or the whole pattern is in a lower register than for a home win
(see Figure 3.1). As JAG worded it in a BBC video ‘James Alexander Gordon
to retire as football results reader’ (www.bbc.com/sport/0/football/23434092):
‘If Arsenal have lost, I am sorry for them, if Manchester United have won, I
am happy for them.’ In his weekly readings on radio, he put these expressions
in his voice as low or high pitch, and in the video he accompanied the voice
inﬂection by a sombre or a smiling face as well as head lowering or raising.
Cruttenden (1974) ran a perception experiment, but did not use original speech
samples: he produced contour sequences himself, which he cut off after the
second name. So his test results with children do not reﬂect what listeners to
the classiﬁed football results up and down the country were able to do with
great accuracy every week. Charlotte Green, who took over from JAG, has
changed the pattern: with her it is now necessary to hear the second name. In
Figure 3.1 there are F0 traces of JAG reading the three result types.
What listeners relied on in their highly successful guessing cannot have
been different types of pitch accents and boundary tones, because they are not
uniquely associated with any one of the three result types. The F0 traces in
Figure 3.1 show clearly differentiated global patterns, which must be the basis
for their perceptual distinctiveness in the recognition process. For a home win,
the speaker produces a pitch pattern in the high region of his voice range, for
an away win in the low region, and for a draw in the central region, with a lev-
elling for the stressed syllable of the team name and the following score, which
produces just one accent on the former.
3.2 Information Selection and Weighting
In verbal interaction, communicators select information points to which they
give weight in relation to one another in the communicative situation. The
languages of the world use a great variety of formal means to achieve this,
e.g. structural devices, such as deviation from default declarative word order,
174 The REPRESENTATION Function
INFORMATION SELECTION AND WEIGHTING 175
cleft sentence constructions and lexical intensiﬁers, but also graded sentence
accentuation based on pitch and energy patterns and segmental duration (of
vowel nuclei and/or initial consonants). Accentuation creates prominence
proﬁles across utterances and makes speciﬁc syllables more salient for infor-
mation highlighting of words and syntactic units. Traditionally the study of
Information Selection and Weighting has centred on referential mean-
ing in Statements, but the same function-form link applies to Questions,
Figure 3.1. F0 traces (log scale) and annotations of classiﬁed football
results read by James Alexander Gordon (JAG): away win (top), home win
(centre), draw (bottom).
Commands/Requests and Exclamations in the Appeal and Expression
functions. For this semantic scaling, the categories of focus and presupposi-
tion or new and given have been proposed in a framework of Information
Structure. Focus came to be studied in just one formal feature, namely F0
patterns of pitch accents. It was initiated in the analysis of English (Liber-
man and Pierrehumbert 1984), but has also been applied to German (Baumann
2006; Féry and Kügler 2008) and to a number of other languages. In the West
Germanic languages, focus can be freely marked by sentence accentuation,
whereas in French, for example, syntactic means intervene. The accentual
manifestations of Information Selection and Weighting have been set
out within the framework of the Kiel Intonation Model (KIM) for German,
and in comparison with English, in 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 3.1.1, 3.1.2. In addition to
graded accentuation of words and syntactic units, there is grading of the timing
and the extension of articulatory opening-closing gestures inside these linguis-
tic elements, along a scale from reduced to elaborated. Both formal scales
converge in coding variation of Information Selection and Weighting
along a functional scale from backgrounding to foregrounding, for which I
propose the term Referential Low-to-High Key. It is supplemented by
the Expressive Low-to-High Key scale in the Expression function, dis-
cussed in Chapter 5.
The relationship between the formal reduced-to-elaborated scale and the
functional Low-to-High Key scale was already clearly formulated by Passy
in his published PhD thesis Étude sur les changements phonétiques et leurs
caractères généraux (1890):
des tendances phonétiques que nous avons constatées, se dégagent bien
nettement deux principes fondamentaux:
1° Le langage tend constamment à se débarasser de ce qui est superﬂu.
2° Le langage tend constamment à mettre en relief ce qui est nécessaire.
… tous les changements … ont pour résultat une économie dans l’activité
des organes
… On parle pour être compris … Tout ce qui est nécessaire pour être compris
et bien compris, on le conserve soigneusement, on l’accentue, on l’exagère;
le reste, on le néglige, on le laisse aller, on l’omet. (Passy 1890, pp. 227–9)
This is the position on which Lindblom (1990) built his hyper-hypo (H&H)
theory, and which I developed into a theory of phrase-level articulatory dy-
namics (Kohler 1979, 1990b, 2001a), combined with a programme of empir-
ical investigation in German (Kohler 2001b,c). This phrase-level phonetics
results from the interaction of ﬁve factors:
176 The REPRESENTATION Function
• the speaker’s tendency to reduce effort
• the listener’s demands on distinctivity
• variable distinctivity requirements in different communicative situ-
ations
• linguistic units
• social conventions.
So the theory of phrase-level phonetics is part of a theory of speech commu-
nication. The effect of the ﬁve conditioning factors on phrase-level phonetic
output cannot be deterministic, but leads to statistically variable reduction
patterns, some of which have very high, others quite low frequencies. In the
Low section of the Low-to-High Key functional scale, the space-time dy-
namics of opening-closing gestures are reduced in relation to a neutral setting
when the gestures are unstressed syllables or unaccented words. Different
linguistic units set different reduction ranges. Function words, such as pro-
nouns, deﬁnite and indeﬁnite articles, auxiliary verbs, prepositions, conjunc-
tions, modal particles, all of which are unaccented by default, have a broader
reduction range than content words. For instance, for preposition + deﬁnite
article in the German phrase ‘(ich fahr) mit dem Auto (zur Arbeit)’ [(I go to
work) by car] there is the following graded scale of increasingly weakened
bundles of articulatory-acoustic properties, represented in segmental phonetic
transcription as:
[mɪd
̥ əm Ɂˈaʊtʰoˑ], [mɪpm Ɂˈaʊtʰoˑ], [mɪɁm Ɂˈaʊtʰoˑ], [mɪbm Ɂˈaʊtʰoˑ], [mɪm
Ɂˈaʊtʰoˑ]
In this example, the extreme reduction [mɪm ʔˈaʊtʰͪoˑ] means ‘by car’ and has
a generic reference, in the same class as ‘mit dem Bus’ [by bus], ‘mit dem
Fahrrad’ [by bike], ‘mit dem Zug’ [by train]. If this utterance is continued
with ‘und zwar mit dem BMW meiner Frau’ [actually in my wife’s BMW], the
speciﬁc reference makes the full reduction of ‘mit dem’ less likely – the deic-
tic indicator in the form of the initial stop of the deﬁnite article (compare the
whole deictic family ‘dieser, der, da, dort, dann’) must be present. Thus, any of
the other forms that have some reﬂex of this stop, even if assimilated in place
of articulation to [m] or glottalised, are preferred in this speciﬁc context. This
suggests that in Low-Key, the generic phrase is activated in its completely re-
duced phonetic form from the mental lexicon, rather than being generated from
a canonical phonological representation. But at the same time, [mɪm] is not
fully lexicalised, because it is still part of the whole reduced scale of ‘mit dem’.
This differs from ‘zum’ versus ‘zu dem’, ‘zur’ versus ‘zu der’, ‘ins’ versus
INFORMATION SELECTION AND WEIGHTING 177
‘in das’, ‘im’ versus ‘in dem’, ‘ans’ versus ‘an das’ ‘am’ versus ‘an dem’, for
example in:
(1) (a) damit komme ich zum Schluss meines Vortrags [this brings me to the
end of my talk]
(b) ich bin zu dem Schluss gekommen, dass … [I have come to the
conclusion that …]
(2) (a) er geht noch zur Schule [he still goes to school]
(b) er geht zu der Schule, die sein Vater besucht hat [he goes to the
school that his father went to]
(3) (a) er geht regelmäßig ins Konzert [he regularly goes to concerts]
(b) wir gehen heute Abend in das Galakonzert der Berliner
Philharmoniker [we are going to the gala concert of the Berlin
Philharmonic Orchestra tonight]
(4) (a) er ist im Konzert [he is at the concert]
(b) in dem Konzert heute abend wird Yehudi Menuhin spielen [Yehudi
Menuhin will be playing in the concert tonight]
(5) (a) er fährt dieses Jahr zum Urlaub ans Meer [he is going to the seaside
for his holiday this year]
(b) er fährt dieses Jahr zum Urlaub an das französische Mittelmeer [he is
going to the French Mediterranean for a holiday this year]
(6) (a) wir treffen uns am Bahnhof [we are meeting at the station]
(b) wir treffen uns an dem kleinen Brunnen neben der Kirche [we are
meeting at the small fountain beside the church]
In all (a) examples the contracted form refers to a generic action (‘zum
Schluss kommen’, ‘zur Schule gehen’ = being at school age), or a generic place
(‘ins Konzert’, ‘ins Kino’, ‘ins Theater’; ‘im Konzert’, ‘im Kino’, ‘im Theater’;
‘ans Meer’, ‘ins Gebirge’ [to the mountains]; ‘am Meer’, ‘im Gebirge’), or a
particular place that needs no further speciﬁcation (‘am Bahnhof’, ‘am Markt-
platz’ [in the market square]). In these cases the contracted forms are obligato-
ry. When a speciﬁcation is added in the (b) examples, the speaker may use the
deictic form of the deﬁnite article to point to a more narrowly deﬁned action or
place for the listener to understand. If this pointing is absent because the speaker
assumes that the listener does not need it, the contracted forms are also possible
in (b). The contracted forms in (a) have been taken out of the preposition +
deﬁnite article reduction scale and are lexicalised, which is also shown by the
fact that they are treated as words in their own right in codiﬁed orthography.
Different types of function words may have different degrees of reduction,
and it may be higher in post-accent than in pre-accent position and inside a
phrase than phrase-ﬁnal. In German, personal pronouns are reduced further
178 The REPRESENTATION Function
than possessive pronouns. The personal pronoun 2nd pers pl ‘ihr’ may be
reduced to [ɐ] in enclitic position to the verb (‘habt ihr das gemacht?’ [have
you done it?]), but only to [ɪɐ] in proclitic position (‘ihr habt es geschafft’ [you
have made it]), and the proclitic possessive pronoun 3rd pers sg fem ‘ihr’ only
goes as far as [iɐ] (‘sie hat ihr Kleid in die Reinigung gebracht’ [she took her
dress to the cleaners]). In English, prenominal prepositions get reduced, but in
phrase-ﬁnal position they do not, in spite of being unaccented: ‘I am doing this
for [ə] you’, ‘who are you doing that for [ɔː]?’
In content words, reduction of opening-closing movements is typically linked
to syllables that do not receive an accent, and that in the lexical-stress languages
German or English are unstressed. The syllable that is particularly affected in both
languages is [ə] after consonants, which is extremely common in German because
of its regular occurrence in verbal and nominal inﬂection, but which is also quite
frequent in English words. German examples are (a) verb, inﬁnitive or 1st, 3rd
pers pl: ‘retten’ [save], ‘reden’ [talk], ‘stoppen’ [stop], ‘loben’ [praise], ‘packen’
[grab, pack], ‘sagen’ [say], ‘stehlen’ [steal]; (b) noun pl: ‘Affen’ [monkeys,
apes], ‘Löwen’ [lions], ‘Rassen’ [races], ‘Rosen’ [roses], ‘Flaschen’ [bottles],
‘die Beamten’ [the civil servants]; (c) adjective, inﬂected: ‘die grünen’ [the green
ones], ‘die lahmen’ [the lame ones], ‘die langen’ [the long ones], ‘die bunten’
[the coloured ones]. English examples are ‘button’, ‘rotten’, ‘written’, ‘ridden’,
‘happen’, ‘ribbon’, ‘bacon’, ‘waggon’, ‘London’, ‘mountain’, ‘orphan’, ‘even’,
‘lesson’, ‘brazen’, ‘fashion’, ‘stolen’, ‘lemon’, ‘Shannon’.
The opening into the central vowel is quite generally eliminated in all preced-
ing segmental contexts in German, and the spatial position at the initiation of
this curtailed gesture commonly determines where it ends. This is the dynam-
ic process interpretation of what in traditional static descriptive terminology
is called progressive place assimilation, for example ‘loben’ [bm], ‘packen’
[kŋ], ‘langen’ [ŋŋ]. In English Received Pronunciation (RP), elimination of
the opening and the spatial adjustment of the gesture are far more restricted,
but are more widespread in other varieties of British English, including Stand-
ard Southern British, and particularly in American English. When there is na-
sality preceding stop + [ən], as in ‘London’, ‘mountain’, the opening gesture
is usually maintained in British English, but strong cohesion in compounds,
such as ‘mountain bike’ may favour curtailing the gesture, and having its
spatial position controlled by the initiation of the next gesture: [mpmb]. This
is fully comparable to German ‘mit bunten Papierschlangen’ [with coloured
paper streamers] [mpmp]. Both examples show that spatial adjustment of ar-
ticulatory movement is not juxtapositionally conditioned but is a controlled
closing-opening trajectory across nasal-oral-nasal-oral alternation. For more
INFORMATION SELECTION AND WEIGHTING 179
descriptive data from German related to a dynamic reduction-elaboration mod-
el, see Kohler (2001a,b,c).
This phonetic variability is generally conceptualised as formal reduction
from underlying canonical forms along a reduced-to-elaborated scale, and
models of word perception relate the recognition of reduced signals to canon-
ical forms in the mental lexicon. So, in the above example ‘mit dem Auto’,
all the phonetic forms are linked to the one postulated underlying canoni-
cal phonological form /mɪt deːm aʊto/. Such canonical reference is certainly
very useful for organising pronunciation dictionaries, and for systematising
the reduction processes that occur in different speaking styles, dialects and
languages, and historical stages of languages, but it cannot reﬂect the articu-
latory processes that are implemented in Low-Key speech communication.
And as regards the perception of utterances containing reduced forms, it is
worth reminding ourselves that the goal of communication is the transmission
of meaning, and that speech recognition means understanding utterances and
content words in them, not recognising phonemes and canonical forms. Thus,
speech recognition is to be placed in the functional diversity of communica-
tive situations, and the mental lexicon may be conceived of as reﬂecting such
a functional structure, and as containing set phrases represented as exemplars
besides words.
Since reduction has been related to reduction from a canonical form, and
since canonical forms are associated with word citation forms derived from
orthographic lexicon entries, elaboration in High Key has largely been ig-
nored. The concept of ‘reduction from canonical form’ represents a descrip-
tive model of Low-Key exponency. In such a model, phonetic variance of
words and phrases, linked to invariant phonological form, is ‘explained’ in
terms of articulatory adaptation in segmental and prosodic context, and of
progressive reduction of effort, and is captured by reduction rules. This phys-
ical link shows up speech production patterns that occur over and over again
in the speaking styles of the world’s languages and in historical sound change,
but they cannot be mapped onto speech production in communicative acts.
It does not make sense to assume that a speaker goes through the succession
of reduction rules from the canonical form to arrive at the speciﬁc phonetic
variant in a particular speech situation. To gain insight into speech commu-
nication we need a process model from speech function to phonetic form in
production and perception.
The degrees of freedom in gestural control may be set at different values
by different (groups of) speakers, and there may even be different coexist-
ent ‘canonical’ forms for the same lexical items within a speech community.
180 The REPRESENTATION Function
ARGUMENTATION 181
Thus, for a small number of German speakers (e.g. elocutionists) the canonical
form of ‘haben’ [have] may still be [haːbən] (getting elaborated to [haːbɛn]),
whereas for the majority it is [haːbm], with [haːbən] being an elaborated form;
yet for some speakers it may even be [haːm], with both other forms being elab-
orated. These (groups of) speakers then start their contextual and situational
adjustments from different canonical bases in the mental lexicon. What these
different settings are we do not know, because we have pooled the variation
across the whole speaker population. We would need to get sufﬁcient data of
phonetic variation in the same lexical items from individual speakers and then
to compare their ranges of phonetic manifestation. This is certainly a task for
the future. But irrespective of this, there is no denying the fact that we have
to work with phrase-level adjustment rules beside phonetic lexical representa-
tions, no matter whether we deal with individual speakers or groups of speak-
ers. The discussion of a reduction-to-elaboration scale will be picked up again
in connection with Expressive Low-to-High Key in Chapter 5.
3.3 Argumentation
Speakers select and weight information points for an utterance by syntax and
sentence accentuation and develop them into an Argumentation by adding
pitch patterns to the accents. It was shown in 2.8 that when an F0 peak max-
imum is shifted from a pre-accent position to an accented vowel, the change
from a high-low to a low-high F0 movement into the vowel results in a sharp
pitch discrimination maximum, which separates an early from a medial peak
pattern. It has been described as a psychophonetic principle of pitch perception
in human speech, and is assumed to be a language universal exploited in iden-
tifying communicative functions in individual languages. It has been demon-
strated for German and for English that the pitch discrimination maximum
coincides with an abrupt change in the identiﬁcation of either a Concluding
or an Opening Argumentation. This is a clear case of categorical pitch per-
ception. The further shift of the F0 peak maximum through the accented vowel
and into a following unaccented syllable does not change the general direction
of the low-high F0 trajectory in the accented vowel and therefore does not
trigger similarly sharp discrimination maxima. A minor maximum was found
near the end of the accented vowel in the German experiments, obviously due
to the long low F0 precursor before the rise. Irrespective of this lack of sharp
discrimination inside the accented vowel, further communicative categories
are identiﬁed: progressively later peak positions add increasing Contrast
to Openness, and the very late positions add Expressive Evaluation to
Contrast. There is category perception, but the category boundaries are not
as clearly deﬁned as they are for Concluding versus Opening Argumen-
tation. These areas of the peak-shift scale have been labelled medial-to-late
and late peaks.
The validity of the functional system of four peak categories for Argumen-
tation in German was conﬁrmed by a perception experiment (Kohler 2005)
using the Semantic Differential Technique on data that were obtained in the
peak-shift paradigm with the sentence ‘Er war mal mager’ [He used to be thin].
The stimuli were contextualised in a situation where two people are looking
at old photos and come across one of an old friend. Based on the results of the
earlier experiments (cf. 2.8), the following four-category function-form system
was projected onto the stimulus set of ‘Er war mal mager’ (cf. also Kohler
2009b):
Finality
In a concluding argument, the speaker sums up his/her own
apperception of a communicative outcome as being obvious, ﬁnal
and no longer debatable: early peak.
‘That’s it, he’s no longer the thin guy he used to be.’
Openness
In an opening argument, the speaker indicates that s/he has
observed, and become aware of, something for further (inter)action:
medial peak.
‘I see, he used to be thin.’
Contrast
In an opening argument, the speaker indicates with an overlay of
contrast that observation contradicts expectation: medial-to-late
peak.
‘Ah, that’s new for the books, he used to be thin.’
Unexpectedness
In an opening argument with an overlay of contrast, the speaker adds
expressive evaluation to an unexpected observation: late peak.
‘Oh well I never, he used to be thin.’
Descriptive and inferential statistics conﬁrmed that there is semantic cat-
egory formation corresponding to the ranges of early versus medial versus
medial-to-late versus late peak positions by semantic feature bundles of the
scales concluding–continuing, accepted–contrastive, known–unexpected,
182 The REPRESENTATION Function
matter-of-fact–surprised, which represent the semantic content of the four
argumentative functions.
These functions are set by the partners engaging in communication and are
not identical with an external information structure of ‘given’ and ‘new’. The
photo provides the externally given fact ‘he was once thin’. The speaker de-
cides on the argumentative weight of this fact and puts it into the frame of ‘this
is what it is’ or ‘this is how I see it’ by different synchronisations of F0 and
energy trajectories associated with the accented vowel. Thus, Information
Structure and Argumentation are differentiated conceptually. Given/
New of information structure and Finality/Openness of Argumentation
may even go against each other, as the following examples show:
• After a long discussion at the beginning of term about ﬁnding a suit-
able alternative time and day for the weekly colloquium to accom-
modate all those who want to attend, the tutor says, ‘We are going
to move the colloquium to Thursday.’ He says it with an early peak
on the last word to indicate to the audience that this is ﬁnal and the
discussion is now closed, although this is New information.
• The session then continues to discuss other course matters, and, at the
end, before departing, the tutor reminds the audience, ‘Please remem-
ber. We have moved the colloquium to Thursday.’ He says it with a
medial peak, although the information is now Given.
To signal modes of Argumentation speakers also use valley patterns at se-
lected and weighted information points in Statements, marking continua-
tion and establishing contact with the listener. They may be either low rising
or high rising, and they may have early or late synchronisation with the ac-
cented vowel (see 2.7). The perception experiment in 2.8.5 showed that ear-
ly synchronisation is associated with Casualness, late synchronisation with
Friendly Concern for the listener. Like the functional categories associated
with post-medial peak synchronisations, these valley-related Argumenta-
tion categories do not have clearly deﬁned boundaries on the shift scale. The
semantic-differential experiment in Kohler (2005) included low-rising and
high-rising valleys in early and late synchronisation. The high-rising stimu-
li received high ratings on the question differential; the low-rising ones did
not. The combination of declarative syntax with a high-rising valley pattern
codes a Confirmation Question (see 4.2.2.4). The details of the system of
Argumentation with valley and peak-valley patterns are still to be worked
out. This is the ﬁeld of intonation where German and SSB English, and dif-
ferent varieties of English, diverge considerably. The use of F(all)+R(ise) or
ARGUMENTATION 183
F(all)R(ise) patterns to make an associative or a dissociative reference to alter-
natives (cf. 1.4.1) is very characteristic of SSBE, but how these two patterns
enter into a system of Argumentation by the side of early and late valleys
still has to be worked out.
Here is an example I came across recently when I tried to phone my daughter
in London but got the BT automated answering service (another female voice):
&2[hello &, &PG we are not &2^available &2. &1[now &, &PG
F(all)+R(ise)
‘we’re out, try again later.’
After a pause, this message was followed by: ‘Please leave your name and
phone number after the beep, we will return your call.’ In this customer-friend-
ly service context, the F(all)R(ise) would sound abrupt:
&2[hello &, &PG we are not &2^available now &., &PG
‘why are you phoning now, we’re out’
And so would an early or a late valley:
&2[hello &, &PG we are not &2]/[available now &, &PG
The former is too casual in this context. The latter is customer-friendly but,
due to unaccented ‘now’, does not lead up to the added alternative of phoning
back later. The German translation with the same listener-oriented Argumen-
tation would be:
&2[hallo &, &PG wir sind zur &2^Zeit nicht &2. &2[da &, &PG
followed quickly by ‘Bitte hinterlassen Sie Name und Telefonnummer nach
dem Ton, wir rufen dann zurück.’ Accented ‘zur Zeit’ prepares for pointing to
the alternative. The F(all)R(ise) pattern
&2[hallo &, &PG wir sind zur &2^Zeit nicht &1. &2^da &., &PG
would signal an explanatory apology without offering to phone back: ‘Sorry,
you can’t reach us, we are out.’ Finally, the early valley in
&2[hallo &, &PG wir sind zur &2^Zeit nicht &2. &2]da &, &PG
would be too casual, as in English.
3.4 Syntagmatic Rhythmic Organisation of Utterances: The Guide
Function of Prosody
In parallel with the semantic organisation through the formal devices of mor-
phosyntax, lexicon, accentuation and intonation, utterances are also given a
184 The REPRESENTATION Function
Syntagmatic Rhythmic Organisation of Utterances 185
rhythmic structure, i.e. a regularity of recurring waxing and waning promi-
nence patterns across syllable chains, produced by a speaker for a listener to
assist the transmission of meaning. Its physical variables are patterns of syl-
labic timing, of spectral variation, of fundamental frequency and of energy.
The semantic strand interferes with perfect rhythmic regularity, on the one
hand through accentual intensiﬁcation at the phrase level, and on the other
hand through articulatory complexity at the lexical level. Especially the last
two variables in the above list deﬁne temporal chunks that are long enough to
allow for a good deal of variability, caused by more local accentual and seg-
mental constraints, without disrupting a percept of regularity for a listener. In
spontaneous speech interaction, hesitations, break-offs and interruptions also
disturb rhythmical patterning, and there are good and bad rhythmical speakers.
It is the competent orator who optimally combines the rhythmic with the se-
mantic strand in speech performance. The rhythmic principle is further stylised
in verse, which is built on a regular number of beats per line in the Germanic
languages, but on a regular number of syllables in the Romance languages.
Irrespective of being disturbed in language use, the rhythmic principle
comes to the fore in idioms and popular phrases, such as combinations of a
monosyllable and a disyllable, linked by ‘and’, that are felt to be more rhyth-
mical than the reverse order because of the greater regularity of rhythmic feet,
e.g. English ‘with bow and arrow’ and the German semantic reversal but rhyth-
mical equivalent ‘mit Pfeil und Bogen’. Titles of novels and ﬁlms point in the
same direction, e.g. Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice and Sense and Sensi-
bility, where the rhythmic beats are additionally heightened by alliteration. The
German translations Stolz und Vorurteil and Gefühl und Verstand lose the allit-
eration but keep the rhythm, the latter with a different semantic ordering. The
ﬁlm version is marketed with the semantically wrong but rhythmically much
closer title Sinn und Sinnlichkeit. In other cases, the ordering of binominals is
clearly governed by meaning, for example ‘father and son’, ‘mother and child’,
‘husband and wife’, where the ﬁrst element may be seen as being closer to a
prototypical orientation in society – adult, male. In ‘sons and daughters’, both
principles coincide.
But spectral patterning as a result of vocal-tract dynamics is also a contrib-
uting factor to rhythmicity: ‘tit for tat’, ‘tick-tock’, ‘sing-song’, ‘ding-dong’,
‘ping-pong’, ‘zigzag’, ‘ﬂip-ﬂop’ and ‘wishy-washy’ in English, and ‘ticktack’;
‘Singsang’, ‘dingdong’, ‘Pingpong’, ‘Zickzack’, ‘Hickhack’, ‘klippklapp’,
‘Mischmasch’, ‘Wirrwarr’, ‘Krimskrams’, ‘wischiwaschi’, ‘Tingeltangel’ and
‘lirumlarum’ in German, with a close-open sequence of vocal-tract shaping.
They are more rhythmical than their reverse orders. The explanation may be
sought in the energy dispersion in the high-frequency spectrum for highish
front vowels as against its concentration in the lower-frequency spectrum for
low and back vowels, coupled with higher versus lower intrinsic fundamental
frequency. The sequencing of high-low spectral pitch may be perceived as be-
ing more appropriately linked to the progression from the beginning to the end
of a word or short phrase, just as, at the intonation level, high-low marks con-
clusion in phrasal utterances. Furthermore, since citation-form utterances of
these words and short phrases in English or German get accentual patterns that
favour high-low progression of fundamental frequency, there is coincidence of
high-low spectral pitch and tonal pitch in one vowel sequencing but not in the
other. There is also the concomitant intrinsic shorter-longer duration, all con-
verging on a perception of moving from the beginning to the end of a linguistic
unit. This preference of vowel sequencing has nothing to do with lexical stress,
because some of the English examples have double, some single, stress; nor is
it causally linked to sentence accent, but instead reﬂects rhythmic patterning
for a listener that exploits the vocal-tract acoustics of speech production.
Languages differ in their rhythmic patterning. Pike (1945) divided the lan-
guages of the world into two classes. In stress-timed languages, prototypically
English and German, beat syllables tend to recur at regular time intervals,
whereas in syllable-timed languages, prototypically French and Spanish, it is
syllables in general. Extensive experimental research into this rhythmic differ-
ence has concentrated on foot and syllable durations. It has already been point-
ed out that perceived foot regularity in English or German depends on spectral
variation, fundamental frequency and energy as well. Spectral change is par-
ticularly relevant in the reduction of unstressed syllables and unaccented func-
tion words, to squeeze them into a regular foot pattern. But the three additional
factors besides syllable timing also apply to French, where in non-expressive
accentuation the sequence of predominantly open syllables forms an ascending
pitch scale to the penultimate syllable of a phrase, followed, in a statement,
by an abrupt pitch drop, with equal accentual weight of all syllables up to the
somewhat more prominent ultimate syllable. All these factors contribute to the
perception of French as the syllable-timed language par excellence.
To advance the analysis of rhythm in language and speech it needs to be
extended to more variables than just the duration of feet or syllables. What is
essential for the production of rhythm in speech of whatever type and in any
language is the global temporal bracketing of the speech signal into chunks
that have recurring phonetic characteristics over and above the syntactic and
semantic organisation, to guide the listener and assist understanding. This
approach to rhythm in speech and language introduces rhythmic structuring as
186 The REPRESENTATION Function
Syntagmatic Rhythmic Organisation of Utterances 187
a Guide function in meaning transmission and deﬁnes rhythmicity in speech
and language as follows:
Constrained by the phonetic structures of the languages of the world, speech
rhythm is the production, for a listener, of a regular recurrence of waxing
and waning prominence proﬁles across syllable chains over time, with the
communicative function of making speech understanding in various speaking
styles more efﬁcient.
This new rhythmic paradigm was presented in Kohler (2008, 2009a), together
with an overview of seventy years of research into speech rhythm (see details
there).
188
4 The APPEAL Function
In an Appeal, speakers use speech to solicit verbal or non-verbal actions from
listeners. In the simplest case, acoustic pointing signals in a sympractical ﬁeld
control verbal interaction with receivers or induce them to act in response to
this pointing. This Istic Deixis Appeal is discussed in 4.1.
In another type of Appeal, the speaker solicits a communicative response,
commonly verbal, to a proposition with an unknown, which the speaker con-
structs with linguistic signs in a synsemantic ﬁeld, and addresses to the listener
to solve the unknown. The unknown is either the truth value or a semantic
constituent of the proposition, such as Agent, Goal, Place, Time, Manner.
The response may be gestural rather than verbal, such as nodding or shaking
one’s head for ‘Yes’ or ‘No’, or shrugging one’s shoulders for ‘I don’t know’,
but the response is still a communicative action. The Appeal may take place
in a sympractical instead of a synsemantic ﬁeld, when gesture and facial ex-
pression are essential accompaniments of verbal communication, as in the ex-
amples quoted in 1.2.1.3, or when they replace it altogether, as in the following
constructed communicative interaction.
Father and son are working in the garden. The father says to the boy, ‘Go and
get me a ﬂower-pot from the far end.’ The boy goes and ﬁnds two different
sizes. As there is visual contact across a large distance, the boy does not shout
but lifts one pot up with one hand and points to it with the index ﬁnger of the
other hand. The father sees this and nods. The boy sends a sympractical visual
Appeal signal that conveys the meaning of the synsemantic verbal message
‘Do you want this size?’, and the father responds with a sympractical visual
signal meaning ‘Yes.’
These types of communicative interaction are instances of the Question Ap-
peal. Its synsemantic manifestations are discussed in 4.2.
In a third type of Appeal, speakers also perform speech actions with lin-
guistic signs in a synsemantic ﬁeld, directed to receivers, yet they solicit ac-
tions of body and mind, rather than a communicative response to an unknown
in Referential Representation. There are two subtypes, depending on the
The DEIXIS APPEAL 189
speaker’s attitude towards the listener. It may be considerate or dominant. The
Appeal may again be accompanied by gesture, for example ordering a person
to leave by shouting ‘Out!’ and pointing to the door at the same time. These
Request or Command Appeals are discussed in 4.3.
The three types of Appeal are deﬁned as different communicative functions.
By the side of these functions, there are different syntactic forms – declarative,
interrogative, imperative, vocative and non-sentential (‘elliptic’) structures. There
is no strict correlation between any particular function and any one of the syntac-
tic structures. In German and English, each of the three Appeal functions can
be coded in different syntactic structures, and, together with speciﬁc intonation
patterns, they yield subcategories in each function. The links of communicative
functions with syntactic and prosodic forms are outlined under the headings of
each Appeal function. In Kohler (2013b), declarative and interrogative structures
were differentiated from declarative and interrogative functions. The conceptual
distinction is maintained, but now Interrogativity is placed in a network of
Appeal functions, and the function-form distinction is given a more stringent ter-
minology: Deixis Appeal, Question – Command – Request Appeals, State-
ment (Asserting Representation) versus vocative, non-sentential (‘elliptic’),
interrogative, imperative, declarative and exclamatory structures, in conjunction
with distinctive prosody patterns.
4.1 The Deixis Appeal
4.1.1 Types of Formal Patterns
While there are special linguistic signs for hic and illic deixis in German and
English, as in other languages (‘hier’, ‘dieser’ – ‘dort’, ‘der’; ‘here’, ‘this’ –
‘there’, ‘that’), istic deixis relies on attention-getting signals, like ‘he’, ‘hallo’ /
‘hey’, ‘hello’, or naming vocatives, to point to the receiver and prepare them
for the sender’s message. For example, the speaker addresses the listener with
a personal name to rouse attention to an upcoming Statement, Question,
Request/Command:
&2^Angela &2. &PG1 das können wir so nicht &2^machen &2. &PG4
&2^Angela &2. &PG1 we can’t &2^do it like this &2. &PG4
&2^Robert &2. &PG1 wie sollen wir das denn &2^machen &2. &PG4
&2^Robert &2. &PG1 how shall we &2^do it then &2. &PG4
&2^Sarah &2. &PG1 &2^gib mir bitte mal das &0. &2^Salz rüber &2.
&PG4
&2^Sarah &2. &PG1 &2^pass me the &0. &2^salt &2. &1]please &,
&PG4
190 The Appeal Function
In German, the 2nd person personal pronouns, informal ‘du’ or formal ‘Sie’,
may also be used to address the receiver in this way, either by themselves or
preceding a personal name to reinforce the deixis.
&2^du/Sie &2. &PG1 das können wir so nicht &2^machen &2. &PG4
&1 du &2.&2^Peter/&PG1 Sie &2.&2^Herr Schmidt &2. &PG1 das
können wir so nicht &2^machen &2. &PG4
&2^Peter/Mr Smith &2. &PG1 we can’t &2^do it like this &2. &PG4
Since the personal name is the deictic trigger, it has to be accented. Being
tightly linked to the following message the prosodic phrase boundary after it is
weak (see 2.12) but will be more strongly marked in reinforced deixis. The voc-
ative can also be appended to the speaker’s message but can then no longer be
accented, because it does not direct the listener to an upcoming message. It be-
comes a deictic sufﬁx in a Statement, a Question or a Request/Command:
&2X &0Angela/Robert &2. &PG4
German pronouns, either on their own or together with vocative naming, can-
not be post-positioned because their forms would have to be elaborated, which
runs counter to sufﬁxation.
Instead of by a naming vocative, the Deixis Appeal may be signalled by
such phrases as ‘hör/hören Sie mal (zu)’, ‘listen’, to point to the listener’s
ear for attention, or ‘sag/sagen Sie mal’, ‘tell me’, to point to the listener’s
mouth for verbal response. They are signals controlling interaction, linked to
a following Statement or Question. They are not self-sufﬁcient Request
Appeals, in spite of their imperative form. For example:
&2^Hör/Hören Sie mal &2. &PG1 das &2^geht so nicht &2. &PG4
&2^Listen &2. &PG1 this won’t &2^do &2. &PG4
&2^Sag/Sagen Sie mal &2. &PG1 ist das dein/Ihr &2^Ernst &2. &PG4
&2^tell me &2. &PG1 are you being &2^serious &2. &PG4
The accentual and phrasing features are the same as for naming vocatives. In
German, ‘hör/hören Sie mal’ may be reinforced to &2^Hör/Hören Sie mal
&2^zu &2. &PG1, and both ‘hör/hören Sie mal’ and ‘sag/sagen Sie mal’ may
be preﬁxed by an accented naming vocative, and/or by informal ‘du’ or formal
‘Sie’, either unaccented as part of the deixis, or accented as a separate, rein-
forced address; this introduces an offensive note, which in the case of the for-
mal address violates a social code and sounds rude. The ear- and the mouth-di-
rected deictic signals may also be appended to the Statement or Question
as unaccented sufﬁxes:
&2X &0hör mal/sag mal &2. &PG4
This is not possible with reinforced ‘hör/hören Sie mal zu’. In English, the
equivalent deictic signal cannot be integrated as an unaccented deictic sufﬁx
in the message. Its occurrence in German seems to be linked to the use of the
modal particle ‘mal’, which gives the verbs ‘hör’ and ‘sag’ the meaning of the
general faculty of ‘hearing’ or ‘speaking’, and thus removes the function of a
speciﬁc Request or Command from the imperative form. The English trans-
lation lacks a corresponding modal particle.
If the general German verbs for ‘hearing’ and ‘speaking’ are replaced by
more speciﬁc ones, such as ‘pass mal auf’ [pay attention] and ‘erzähl mal’
[let’s have the story], the function of Request or Command stays, and the
phrase does not become a Deixis Appeal. This means that the phrase can
precede or follow in accented form, and sufﬁxation is excluded. For example:
&2^erzähl mal &2. &PG4 was ist denn &2^gestern &0. &2^pass'iert &2.
&PG4
&2^tell me &2. &PG4 what &2^happened &0. &2^yesterday &2. &PG4
was ist denn &2^gestern &0. &2^pass'iert &2. &PG4 &2^erzähl mal &2.
&PG4
what &2^happened &0. &2^yesterday &2. &PG4 &2^tell me &2. &PG4
A Question with an unknown object can be integrated into a Request, re-
sulting in what is traditionally termed an indirect question:
&2^erzähl mal was &0. &2-gestern &0. &2^pass'iert ist &2. &PG4
&2^tell me what &0. &2-happened &0. &2^yesterday &2. &PG4
Besides these lexical istic pointers, communicators use stepping, instead of
continuous, pitch patterns as acoustic interaction control signals (see 1.2.1.2
and 2.14). In such exchanges, social and personal attitudes between act-
ing partners, emotional expressiveness of speakers, and propositions about
the world and the communicative setting play a minor role. This results in
stepping patterns becoming less forceful than their continuous counterparts.
Thus, compared with ‘↓good ↑mor↓ning, Anna’, the same sentence with a
high-low medial peak contour on ‘morning’ is more categorical and superi-
or sounding, and may even be taken as a reproach when the person comes
to the breakfast table rather late, whereas the down-stepping pattern would
not, least so with a small step-down interval of a minor third. Similarly, ‘your
tickets, please’ with a high-low medial peak contour on ‘tickets’ has a com-
manding tone, compared with the down-stepping pattern ‘↓your ↑tick↓ets,
please’.
The discussion in the following sections develops a functional network
of distinct types of interaction control by stepping as the most elementary
The DEIXIS APPEAL 191
192 The Appeal Function
Appeal function. The primary division is between controlling connection with
a receiver and inducing action in a receiver.
4.1.2 Controlling Connection with a Receiver
A sender signals the wish or the readiness to connect with a receiver. This
may be done in three different ways: (1) calling someone to connect, or giving
one’s position in response; (2) initiating, sustaining and closing an interac-
tion; (3) re-establishing connection. Whenever a sender considers it necessary
to control sender-receiver channel connection for these communicative acts,
stepping pitch patterns are used.
(1) Calling
This ‘calling contour’, usually across a spatial distance between speaker and
listener, is a stepping pattern going down from high pitch by a variety of in-
tervals – the larger the interval, the more dominant the summoning appeal.
Duration and energy are further variables that distinguish different types, de-
pending, for example, on distance or indoors/outdoors. The pattern may be
a mother’s call to a child to stop playing or watching television, or anything
else the child may be doing, because it is dinner-time or bedtime, or just time
to come home, e.g. ‘↑John↓. ↑Lunch↓’, with high-mid stylised medial peaks,
turning the words into disyllables. If the child does not respond, the mother
will repeat her call more loudly and eventually revert to continuous pitch with
increased loudness, pitch excursion and non-modal phonation, adding strong
expression and commanding appeal to the call. Down-stepping may also be
used to call someone to disclose their whereabouts and thus to enter the speak-
er’s action ﬁeld, e.g. ‘↑Ro↓bert. ↓Where ↑are ↓you?’ Likewise, in the example
quoted in 1.2.1.1 (1), Speaker A may use a down-stepping pattern on both
‘↑An↓na’ and ‘↓where ↑are ↓you?’ to get the addressee to establish contact.
Disyllabic ‘↑Here↓’ in the answer, over and above signalling hic deixis, also
signals istic deixis with a stepping pattern, to connect with the caller. The same
applies to ‘↓It’s ↑me↓’ in 1.2.1.1(2).
A special case of this calling contour is its use to rouse the attention of
someone who has fallen asleep, or is otherwise occupied, or just does not take
part in a communicative interchange, e.g. ‘↑John↓, ↑wake ↓up’ (with down-
stepping on ‘John’ and on ‘wake up’). This sounds more friendly than the use
of a continuous falling contour. The latter is a Command to act, the former is a
receiver-directed control signal to enter communicative interaction.
A receptionist in a doctor’s surgery calling the next patient in the waiting-
room to come forward to see the doctor is another instance of istic deixis:
‘↓Mister ↑Mil↓ler’/‘↑Next one, ↓please.’ In this case, up-stepping is also
possible: ‘↓Mister ↑Miller’/ ‘↑Next one, please.’ The difference between
down-stepping and up-stepping in calls is one of Summoning versus Invit-
ing, reﬂecting the distinction between Command and Request in synseman-
tic speech. With downward pitch movement, a speaker signals terminality in a
speech action and authority towards the listener, the more so the larger the in-
terval; upward pitch movement signals continuation and compliance. This ap-
plies to both continuous and stepping pitch patterns. Due to this function-form
link, mothers calling their children will be more likely to use down-stepping,
whereas receptionists will prefer up-stepping.
(2) Initiating, Sustaining, Concluding Interactions
Stepping patterns in greetings, or in leave-taking, or in answering the telephone,
or in routine selling–buying interactions have the function of controlling the
communicative connection. At the check-out in supermarkets, the cashier may
open, sustain and conclude a selling–buying interaction in this fashion, as in
the following example observed in a German supermarket:: ‘Hal↑lo. – ↑Vier-
zehn Euro ↓dreißig. – ↑Siebzig Cent zu↓rück, ↑und der ↓Bon. ↑Schönen ↓Tag
noch’ [with the English equivalent ↓Hel↑lo. – ↑Fourteen pounds thirty ↓pence.
– ↑Seventy pence ↓change, ↑and the re↓ceipt. ↑Have a nice ↓day]. Answering
the telephone will usually be up-stepping ‘↓Hel↑lo’ to signal ‘Who’s calling?
Identify yourself!’, but it may also be ‘↑Hel↓lo’, very short, and with a very
small interval to convey, ‘I’m busy, what do you want, whoever you are?’ If,
after an opening ‘↓Hel↑lo’, there is no response, the sender tries to establish
connection with down-stepping ‘↑Hul↓lo.’
The completion of an interaction may be signalled with ‘Thank you’, either
high-level, up-stepping or down-stepping, for example to a clerk, bank teller
or waiter. Ladd (1978, p. 524) points out that these stepping patterns would
be totally inappropriate ‘to someone who had just returned our lost wallet to
us’, because it lacks an expressive component, which is inherent in continuous
contours. A special case are perfunctory answers to polarity-question calls, e.g.
(‘↓are you coming ↑with us?’) ‘↑Yes (↓)/↑No (↓)’ or ‘↓Per↑haps (↓), ↓don’t
↑know (↓)yet.’
(3) Re-connecting with a Receiver
Re-establishing connection may be illustrated by the following example:
At a barbecue in the garden, the husband is having a bit of trouble getting the
ﬁre going. After some time, he calls out to his wife, who has gone into the
house: ‘↓It’s ↑bur↓ning’ with a down-stepping pattern on ‘burning’. In this
The DEIXIS APPEAL 193
194 The Appeal Function
way, he signals to his wife that she can now bring the steaks, the burgers and
the sausages for grilling.
If, on the other hand, the husband suddenly discovers that his garden shed
is ablaze, he will not call to his wife in the same way but will use a continuous
falling contour, with pressed phonation and intensiﬁed loudness and pitch
excursion.
Another case of re-connecting with a receiver is the use of a stepping pattern as
a reaction to being reminded, or reprimanded, for having contravened a social
code. Wichmann (2004, p. 1540) provides the following example of a parent–
child interaction in a British middle-class family:
A Robert doesn’t want any yet
Z: Yes (I do ? unclear). I’d like some of that and some strawberry ice
cream.
D: What
A: Please (loudly on fall-rise tone)
Z: Please (quietly on level tone)
The parent admonishes the child for not observing the code of saying ‘please’
after a request. The child knows the code and re-connects with the parent by
giving an extracommunicative citation of the code word on mid-level pitch.
An example of the same genre comes from a German conversation I once
overheard in the departure lounge of Hamburg airport between a father and
his approximately 5-year-old daughter, who was wrapped up in playing games
on a small computer. (I am translating the conversation into English since the
patterns can be exactly the same.) The father was going to buy something to
drink for himself and asked the daughter whether she would like some water.
The daughter said ‘yes’, and a few minutes later the father put the glass in
front of her, saying ‘Here’s your water.’ This was greeted with silence. The
father asked, ‘What does one say?’ – ‘↑Thank you’ on mid-level pitch was the
answer.
Niebuhr (2013) quotes the example of a teenager having his hi-ﬁ on full
blast, so the neighbours complain about the noise, and his mother tells him to
turn it down. The teenager complies with the code of neighbourly behaviour:
‘↓mach ich eben ↑leiser’, [OK. I’ll turn it ↑down then]. Here the up-stepping
pattern conveys irritation at being reminded, due to the strengthening of high
pitch in a stylisation of an early valley. Complying with the code might also be
signalled by ‘↓mach ich eben ↑lei↓ser’ or ‘↑mach ich eben ↓leiser’, with the
stylisations of a medial or an early peak respectively (see 2.7, 2.8). In these
cases, the irritation is absent, and the early high-mid drop into the accented
syllable signals Finality and thus adds a connotation of resignation.
In all these examples of a speaker re-connecting with a receiver in order to
correct previous behaviour, e.g. the infringement of a social code, the speaker
does not express concern for the recipient, but verbalises the required action as
a citation removed from the symbolic ﬁeld of communication. They all have
the connotation of ‘reluctantly giving in’, especially the third example. This is
not due to the formal feature of pitch stylisation per se. Social demands enforce
behavioural codes on the speaker, who re-connects with the listener, using
receiver-directed acoustic pointing. The use of the particle ‘eben’ (which may
be rendered in English by preﬁxed ‘OK’ and sufﬁxed ‘then’) in the third ex-
ample expresses reluctance lexically. The meaning of the utterance keeps this
connotation even when a continuous pattern replaces stepping. Niebuhr takes
the surface meaning of the utterance, which is the result of lexical as well as
prosodic coding, as the meaning of the stepping pattern, and calls it ‘resistance
is futile’, barring prosodic research from semasiological understanding.
4.1.3 Inducing Action in a Receiver
In this set of ISTIC Deixis, receiver-directed pointing is meant to stimulate
receivers into action. They may be (1) speciﬁc proximate or distant receivers
or (2) anonymous receivers.
(1) Speciﬁc Proximate or Distant Receivers
Ladd (1978, p. 123) quotes an example from Bolinger:
A. Where’s the phone book
B. ↓on the ↑tab↓le (… right where it belongs)
Here the response to a question for place information contains an acoustic
pointing signal telling the receiver to look for the thing in the place where it
always is.
In the following example, Ladd (1978, p. 523) illustrates the use of stepping
to induce action in a pointing ﬁeld, and contrasts it with the use of a continuous
pattern in a symbolic ﬁeld to transmit information:
A. [from a distance, pointing to the car from which B has just emerged]
Y’ ↑left your lights ↓on.
B. [who had been jangling keys getting ready to lock the car]
What?
A. [louder, and with a rising intonation pattern up to the ﬁnal accent,
which is followed by an abrupt low fall on the last syllable]
You left your lights on.
The DEIXIS APPEAL 195
196 The Appeal Function
’When an utterance is called with stylised intonation and the addressee does
not understand, the speaker will repeat with normal intonation’ (p. 523).
In this case, A’s interactive trigger signal was not successful in inducing B
to act appropriately. So, B asks for referential information, which A provides
with a continuous pitch pattern. But, contrary to Ladd’s interpretation of the
use of stepping, I believe that his example does not demonstrate a stylisation
of the meaning of a plain contour; rather, stepping patterns have a different
function of their own, i.e. controlling interaction and getting dialogue partners
to act in stereotypical ways. This contrasts with continuous patterns, which
provide referential information, speaker attitudes and emotional expression.
Another example from Ladd (1978, p. 524) illustrates the lack, in an action-
triggering stepping pattern, of attitudinal and expressive meaning, which
would have to be transmitted by a continuous pattern:
we can squeeze past people in a crowd, with either ↑Xcuse ↓me, or ↑’Xcuse
me, [high on the ﬁrst syllable, falling on the second] But when we bump
into people in the supermarket causing them to drop a dozen eggs all over the
ﬂoor, it will not do to say ↑’Xcuse ↓me.
In this situation, an attitude of being sorry and an apology are asked for, which
the interactive trigger signal cannot give. If this pattern were used nevertheless,
it would be a downright rude remark, signalling to the other person, ‘Look
where you are going – be more careful next time.’
Ticket collectors on trains commonly ask passengers with stepping patterns
to show their tickets, signalling that this is a formal act, not the initiation of a
conversation with the traveller. The use of continuous falling contours turns
the ticket collector’s matter-of-fact ticket-checking into a communicative act,
i.e. into a Command, and therefore sounds less customer-friendly.
(2) Anonymous Receivers
In public announcements, a stepping pattern draws anonymous receivers’ at-
tention to certain constellations in the environment and points to actions they
should take. For example, at Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, passengers are
reminded with high-mid down-stepping ‘↑Mind your ↓step’ from a female
voice that they should pay attention on the travellators. This is stylisation of
an early peak contour. Its function is to give general advice to all passengers,
the passenger in the abstract, to adapt their walking to the demands of the cir-
cumstances in the action ﬁeld: the meaning of Finality of an early peak (see
2.7, 2.8). If the downward step were to occur on the vowel of ‘step’, breaking
it up into two syllables, the function changes to an admonition of the individual
↓
passenger who may not be walking cautiously: the meaning of Openness of a
medial peak (see examples in 4.1.4).
By such a stylised pattern the speaker gives a friendly warning, which is nei-
ther a Command nor a Request, and which it is in the passenger’s interest to
follow. A high-falling medial peak pattern on ‘step’ would signal a Command
‘watch where you are going’, a low-rising early valley a Request ‘please
comply with my wish’. The latter would be out of place in this situational con-
text. Since the Schiphol announcement does not address a particular passen-
ger in a speaker–listener communicative interaction, the speaker detaches the
information from speaker-oriented expressiveness and from listener-oriented
attitudes, apart from getting listeners’ attention. Rather than being an act in
communicative interchange, the prime purpose of the message is to point to
aspects in an action ﬁeld considered relevant for the receiver, and to control
the addressee’s actions in it.
A different example is provided by announcements in London Underground
stations that have curved platforms. When a train stops, a gap forms between
the carriage and the platform. Passengers’ attention is drawn to this hazard
so that they may act to avoid it. ‘Mind the gap’ is announced when the doors
open. At some stations, the announcement is made in synsemantic form with
continuous pitch movement: ‘Please, mind the gap between the train and the
platform.’ It becomes a Request to pay attention to a hazardous constellation
of objects, which is described with linguistic form. At other stations, the an-
nouncement is in sympractical form, with rising and falling pitch on ‘mind’ and
‘gap’ respectively, pointing to an object in a deictic ﬁeld the anonymous pas-
senger is expected to be part of. Understanding the announcement presupposes
that the passenger knows what ‘gap’ points to. It is a Warning, appealing to
the passenger to be careful. This is more than simply drawing their attention
to their action in a deictic action ﬁeld, as is the case at Schiphol Airport. The
announcement could, of course, be reduced to simple pointing, and would then
also be realised as a stepping pattern. But none of the male and female voices
that have recorded the announcement use it. London Transport opted for ad-
dressing the potential passenger with a personal appeal in addition to pointing.
A third example refers to market criers offering their goods with stepping
patterns to attract anonymous listeners’ attention and induce them to buy:
‘↓fresh ↑vegetables’, ‘↓tasty ↑sausages’. The typical pattern is up-stepping to
raise the pitch level for a heightened stimulating effect. Down-stepping weak-
ens the stimulatory force of the speaker’s appeal to the listener. It turns an
interaction inducement into an interaction offer by supplementing the appeal
with information about the content of the interaction, i.e. it becomes more
The DEIXIS APPEAL 197
198 The Appeal Function
speaker- and fact-oriented. This gets the more prominent the larger the down-
step. The high-mid stepping in a market crier’s call ‘↓tasty ↑sau↓sages’, in-
stead of ‘↓tasty ↑sausages’, is not conﬁned to controlling an interaction by
attracting attention and stimulating the receiver into buying, but also puts more
weight on the produce offered.
4.1.4 Naming and Pointing in Sympractical Fields
Stepping is also used when synsemantic naming is added to sympractical
pointing, for instance in reminder calls:
↑Don’t forget your ↓lunch. [with a step down to ‘lunch’]
or ↓Don’t forget your ↑lunch↓. [with a high-mid step on ‘lunch’] (Ladd 1978,
p. 520)
The former points to the packed lunch that has been prepared as usual,
whereas the latter points to the packed lunch that is waiting to be taken, e.g.
sitting visibly on the kitchen table. This is again the difference between early
peak Finality and medial-peak Openness (see 3.3), now with stepping pat-
terns pointing to the generally given or the speciﬁcally selected in the action
ﬁeld, respectively. If the continuous contours
Don’t forget your &2)/^lunch &2. &PG
are used instead, the utterances lose their pointing and become synsemantic
references to a packed lunch, with an appeal to the receiver not to forget it. The
early peak may be contextualised as ‘and before you go, pick up your packed
lunch’, the medial peak as ‘you’ve packed everything else’.
The example
↑Daddy forgot his brief↓case. (Ladd 1978, p. 521)
with high-mid stylised medial peak down-stepping on ‘briefcase’ also belongs
to this category. The speaker observes an item in the pointing ﬁeld which the
person it belongs to forgot to take with him, and verbalises this observation in a
structured sentence addressed to some listener in the action ﬁeld. However, the
main goal of the utterance is not the transmission of information but drawing
attention to an action ﬁeld, and to trigger the same observation in the listener
by a stimulating signal. If down-stepping occurs early
↑Daddy forgot his ↓briefcase.
the stimulating signal is absent: the speaker simply points to the established
fact in the ﬁeld, possibly also suggesting that Daddy is generally forgetful.
If, on the other hand, the speaker wants to pass on important information to a
nearby listener, also expressing concern and appealing to the listener to see that
Daddy gets his briefcase, pitch is continuous in a raised medial peak:
&HP Daddy forgot his &3^briefcase &2. &PG
Ladd illustrates the use of such a continuous contour with the example (in
PROLAB notation)
&HP Daddy fell &3^downstairs &2. &PG (Ladd 1978, p. 521).
It shows a raised medial peak on ‘stairs’ (together with other acoustic properties
for intensiﬁcation) in a naming ﬁeld, transmitting factual information, expres-
sive concern and an appeal to the addressee(s) to come and help. If ‘down-
stairs’ were to have low-high-mid stepping
↓Daddy fell down↑stairs↓. [a stylised medial peak]
the speaker would point to a quite common event: ‘Not the ﬁrst time it has
happened, we were only talking about the problem the other day, and we now
have to do some serious thinking.’ If there is stepping from high ‘down’ to mid
‘stairs’
↓Daddy fell ↑down↓stairs. [a stylised early peak]
the soliciting signal to the addressee(s) is absent, and the utterance only refers
to the common occurrence in the pointing ﬁeld.
Ladd (1978, p. 526f) links the early down-stepping pattern to a stylisation
of the continuous low rise. He contrasts the meanings of the two patterns as
follows: ‘in statements [the low rise] often conveys belligerence or defensive-
ness, or some special involvement of the speaker … In many cases the styl-
ized connotation emerges as tiredness, resignation, or “I-been-there-before”.
He quotes ‘I’m coming’ with both patterns in a Bolinger-type annotation,
marking ‘I’m’ high level in both cases, and ‘coming’ either as a low rise or as
low down-stepping. As to their meanings, the former ‘in answer to a parent’s
call could come out as belligerent or insolent’, the latter ‘puts up only broken
(= stylized?) resistance to parental authority, and conveys resignation to the
inexorable approach of bedtime or dinnertime’. Apart from having some feature
of low pitch in common, the two patterns are formally very different: one rises,
the other falls. On the other hand, the down-stepping pattern has early, pre-
accentual synchronisation of high pitch, and low pitch on the accented vowel, in
common with continuous early peak patterns. This gives early down-stepping
the function of Finality, which is different from the function of a low rise.
Thus, neither the formal nor the functional aspect justiﬁes a stylisation relation-
ship between the two patterns. Dombrowski (2013) demonstrated conclusively
The DEIXIS APPEAL 199
200 The Appeal Function
in his semantic-differential experiment that the early downstep pattern is the
stylisation of the continuous early peak. A continuous early valley establishes a
rapport with a caller, a continuous late valley includes friendliness in the reac-
tion to being called. To sound ‘belligerent or insolent’ other acoustic properties
must be added, especially greater pitch range in the drop from a high prehead to
the start of a rise that is accompanied by non-modal phonation.
Down-stepping may also be pointing to a hazard in the action ﬁeld of which
the individual receivers should be aware in order to adapt their behaviour in
their own interests. Ladd (1978, p. 520f) gives two examples:
↑Look out for the broken ↑step↓.
with a stylised medial peak on ‘step’ is directed towards the individual listener,
possibly as a reminder to the listener’s previous experience of the hazard, also
referring to the step having been broken for some time. This meaning is absent
when the downward step occurs in a stylised early peak from high-level ‘bro-
ken’ to ‘step’. As in the Schiphol announcement (see 4.1.3(2)), the speaker just
points to the hazard. If the utterance is meant as a warning, with the speaker’s
expressive concern added, it would have continuous pitch movement and a
medial peak on ‘step’:
&2^Look out for the &0. &2-broken &0. &3^step &2. &PG
The same applies to Ladd’s second example in a mountaineering scenario.
&2^Look out for the &0. &3^crev'asse &2. &PG
However, if the two mountaineers have done their climb before, the one
behind may shout to the one ahead with early peak down-stepping to ‘v'asse’
↑Look out for the cre↓v'asse.
telling him that he must be close to the previously encountered hazard. Or
the one ahead may shout to the one behind with medial-peak high-mid down-
stepping on disyllabic ‘v'asse’:
↑Look out for the cre↑v'asse↓.
and the meaning ‘this is where the hazard is’.
Naming and pointing in a sympractical ﬁeld of calls may be illustrated by
the following constructed communicative exchanges.
A couple have discussed a family outing with their children. Some time
later, the father calls to Jeannette, who is out of sight, either somewhere else in
the house or outside:
↓Jean↑n’ette, ↓we’re ↑going now, ↓are you ↑coming?
There is high-level up-stepping on each of the three accented syllables, stylis-
ing early valleys. The high levels in the father’s calls (vocative – declarative –
interrogative structures) signal the father’s openness to Jeannette’s response.
If he expects the answer to be ‘I’m coming’, in full agreement with the pre-
vious discussion, he will use high-mid stylised medial peaks in all three
calls:
↓Jean↑nette↓, ↓we’re ↑go↓ing now, ↓are you ↑com↓ing?
In both cases, Jeannette may answer
↑Yes, ↓I’m ↑com↓ing.
with high-level pitch on the ﬁrst accent, a stylised early valley and high-mid
down-stepping on the second accent, a stylised medial peak, signalling an
open-action response: ‘OK. I’ll get on my way.’ Synchronisation of high pitch
with the accented vowel conveys argumentative Openness in stepping as well
as in continuous contours.
But Jeannette may also answer
↑I’m ↓coming.
with high-level ‘I’m’ followed by mid-level ‘coming’, a stylised early peak,
signalling a forced-action response and an undertone of resignation: ‘OK, I’ll
get on my way then.’ Here synchronisation of lowered pitch with the accented
vowel conveys argumentative Finality, as in continuous contours.
A third possibility for Jeannette’s answer is
↓I’m ↑coming.
a stylised early valley, signalling readiness to comply with the action call. It
may be called the ‘compliance function in the sympractical ﬁeld’.
In these cases, acoustic pointing to the receiver (Jeannette or the father) oc-
curs with reference to the discussion among the family, and the communicative
exchanges take place within this frame of phaniasma deixis (cf. 1.2.2). The
father picks up information available to all family members from the previous
discussion, and Jeannette answers accordingly. If the information exchange
does not precede, the father’s speech action with Jeannette may run like this:
↓Jean↑nette. &2^Mum and I are &1. &2^going down to the &1. &2^beach
&2. &PG Are you &2]coming &? &PG
starting with high-level pitch, a stylised early valley, on the vocative to get
Jeannette’s attention from a distance, followed by a sequence of three medial
The DEIXIS APPEAL 201
202 The Appeal Function
peak contours with terminal falls on the next three accents, and ﬁnally a
high-rising early valley, expecting an open response. Jeannette may respond
&2^Yes, I’m &1. &2^coming &2. &PG
with medial peaks and terminal falls at both accents. The absence of a mutual
information base prevents a pointing ﬁeld from being set up for an interaction
in relation to this base. The exchanges between the father and Jeannette are
still distance calls, and will be marked as such by increased loudness, but they
are no longer istic deixis calls. They are now exchanges of new information,
for which stepping patterns are no longer adequate: continuous contours take
their place.
4.1.5 Explaining the Use of Stepping Pitch Patterns for DEIXIS APPEAL
The typical explanation of the use of stepping pitch in calling contours, the
originally analysed data set, referred to a greater distance from the receiver
requiring greater acoustic energy which can be better generated on sustained
pitch (Abe 1962). Apart from the fact that calls are adjusted to the distance
estimated, which may be quite small, the occurrence in, e.g. greetings, cannot
be explained by a need to raise the energy of the transmitted signal. Rather, for
a successful control of connection with a receiver, the sender wants to ensure a
high degree of signal intelligibility by reducing its acoustic variability. There-
forethestabilityofkeyprosodicproperties–syllablenucleussonority,rhythmic
structure and pitch – is heightened. Pike (1945, p. 71) mentions durational
restructuring of syllable timing in speech chant, under which he subsumes
calling. Syllable nuclei as pitch carriers are lengthened, and pitch is levelled
to transmit two basic patterns, (higher-)lower or (lower-)higher, depending on
whether the sender signals readiness or expectation to connect, or whether the
sender stimulates connection. If the higher-lower readiness/expectation signal
is transmitted on a ﬁnal accented syllable, the nucleus is lengthened irrespec-
tive of the vowel quantity (‘↑Jane↓’, ‘↑Jen↓’) and perceptually splits into two
syllables to accommodate the two level pitches (cf. also Gussenhoven 1993).
The low-high step-up presupposes an unaccented syllable before the ac-
cented one, e.g. ‘↓Ni↑cole, ↓come ↑here’, but in ‘↑Jane/Jenny, ↓come ↑here’
the corresponding pattern is high. When in a step-up pattern the unaccented
syllable precedes an accent initiated by a voiceless obstruent, as in ‘Okay’,
the whole syllable may lose its periodicity and therefore its periodic pitch lev-
el, but low aperiodic pitch perception persists. The articulatory movement for
the unaccented syllable may, in turn, be eliminated altogether, resulting, e.g.,
in ‘↑kay’, with possible reinforcement (lengthening) of the initial obstruent.
When the word ‘Danke’ or the phrase ‘Thank you’ occurs with this step-up
pattern it may become an unaccented-accented syllable sequence, although the
ﬁrst syllable is lexically stressed. It can then follow the same path as ‘Okay’,
resulting in ‘↑ke’, or ‘↑kyou’. This will not happen in the high-mid step-down
on these phrases. It leads to increased distinctiveness between the two step pat-
terns. The perceptual separation, by pitch as well as duration and syllabiﬁca-
tion, of the stepped level-pitch sequences in, e.g., ‘↑Jane↓’ and ‘↑Jane’ is also
more clearly marked than the one between the continuous contours of, e.g.,
falling ‘\Jane’ and rising ‘/Jane?’ Stepping patterns are thus more adequate sig-
nals for interaction control. Furthermore, as pitch stylisation reduces Appeal
and Expression features, stepping becomes a speciﬁc signal for the pointing,
as against the symbolic, function of speech communication.
The difference between appeal signals in the deictic and the symbolic ﬁeld
may be illustrated by the following interchange between a driver and a pas-
senger as the car is approaching a red trafﬁc light rather fast. At a fair distance
away, the passenger may point to the light being red and draw the driver’s
attention to its meaning ‘Stop!’ by issuing the gentle appeal ‘↑Red↓’, or ‘↑Red’
with greater stimulatory force to act. But if the car is already dangerously close
to the lights, suggesting that the driver might not have seen it, this pointing
reminder is not strong enough: the passenger issues a high-key Command
Appeal with an expression of fear by using an expanded continuous pitch fall,
pressed phonation and intensiﬁed loudness to get the driver to stop in time. The
linguistic sign ‘red’ is no longer simply a pointer to the trafﬁc signal and the
Highway Code, and to the need to act, but it has become a symbol of Danger
with a signal of Warning and a symptom of Fear.
4.1.6 Stepping Patterns in Ritual, Liturgy, Children’s Chant and
Nursery Rhymes
The use of level pitch in religious ritual, such as the Lord’s prayer in the Chris-
tian church or the liturgy of Holy Mass, is another manifestation of descaling
the linguistic sign of Bühler’s Organon Model for routine interaction. Com-
munication with Spirits and God(s) isolates the speaker from human commu-
nication; the speaker bows to the superior forces and tones down all features
that mark interaction between speakers and listeners. In the Catholic church,
the use of Latin texts removes a substantial part of referential meaning. Here
again, the use of stepping is the obvious choice for this special type of commu-
nicative situation. But being a calling scenario, the worshipper only uses the
down-stepping pattern, with different intervals, the largest to mark the end of
the spiritual interaction, for example in ‘↑Amen↓.’ Children’s chant (see 2.14)
The DEIXIS APPEAL 203
204 The Appeal Function
and nursery rhymes are further examples of the use of stepping pitch patterns
for speciﬁc interactive functions. They use a greater number and a greater va-
riety of stepping levels than the more monotonous routines in prayers and lit-
urgy. All these uses differ from stepping in istic deixis as they feature in entire
spoken texts, whilst stepping in Deixis Appeal is pointing interspersed in
sympractical and synsemantic communication.
4.2 The Question Appeal
4.2.1 Overview
Whilst the function of the ISTIC Deixis Appeal is to attract a listener’s atten-
tion and to control interaction, the Question Appeal solicits a communica-
tive response to an unknown in a proposition, which the speaker constructs
with linguistic signs and addresses to the listener in a synsemantic speaker–lis-
tener action ﬁeld. There are two types of unknowns (with illustrations from
German and English):
(a) the truth value of the proposition, for example
Kannst du Spanisch? Can you speak Spanish?
<TruthX>: Du kannst Spanisch. <TruthX>: You can speak Spanish.
(b) a semantic constituent<SemCon>of the proposition – <Agent> <Goal> <Place>
< Time> <Manner>, for example
Wer kann Spanisch? Who can speak Spanish?
<AgentX>: kann Spanisch <AgentX>: can speak Spanish
The speaker constructs the proposition, with the unknown inserted, in two
different ways:
(_1) making the proposition without reference to one already available in the
interaction
(_2) picking up a proposition made by a dialogue partner, or deducing it from
the speaker–listener common ground in their action ﬁeld, for example
A: Alex hat ein Haus gekauft.
Alex has bought a house.
B: &HR &2^Alex hat ein &0. &2^Haus gekauft&2. &PG
&HR &2^Alex has bought a &0. &2^house &2. &PG
A: Wir treffen uns morgen früh um sieben im Labor.
We are meeting in the lab at seven tomorrow morning.
B: Um &2[wieviel Uhr treffen wir uns im Labor &? &PG
At &2[what time are we meeting in the lab &? &PG
B: Wir treffen uns um &2[wieviel Uhr im Labor &? &PG
We are meeting in the lab at &2[what time &? &PG
The QUESTION APPEAL 205
The constellations (a_1) and (b_1) are Polarity Question and Infor-
mation Question with propositional structures ‘<TruthX>: proposition’
and ‘<SemConX>: in proposition’, respectively; the constellations (a_2)
and (b_2) are Confirmation Questions about the validity of a proposi-
tion already available, or about semantic constituents of information already
provided in it, with propositional structures ‘<CTruthX>: proposition’
and ‘<CSemConX>: in proposition’. In Kohler (2013b) these questions
were called Repeat Questions (see also Cruttenden 1986), with reference to
questioning a proposition by repeating it. Since this term leads to misunder-
standing, it has now been replaced by Confirmation Questions. Another
commonly used term is ‘echo question’ (Ladd 1996), which is not clearly sep-
arated from an interrogative-form echo of a preceding question (Question
Quote, see 4.2.2.7).
If the proposition that is picked up is itself contained in a Question asked
previously by the speaker or by the dialogue partner, we are dealing with a
Question Quote of the propositional content of the preceding Polarity or
Information Question; for details in German and English, see 4.2.2.7. In
the literature, Polarity Questions are commonly referred to as ‘yes’–‘no’
questions, which is a misnomer, because they may be responded to in a great
variety of ways. The lexical items ‘yes’ and ‘no’ may even be excluded in al-
ternative questions, such as ‘Do you want the white bowl or the brown bowl?’
But they are still Polarity Questions, because they enquire as to whether X
or Y is true, and, if one is true, the other is not.
The coding of Polarity Questions in the languages of the world relies
on a variety of formal means, including syntactic structure (initial verb posi-
tion in the West Germanic languages), question particles, e.g. ma in Mandarin
Chinese (Liu 2009; Liu and Xu 2005), li in literary Russian, kya in Hindi, or
prosodic patterns on declarative syntax, e.g. in spoken Russian (Bryzgunova
1977, 1980, 1984; Khromovskikh 2003), or in Neapolitan Italian (d’Imperio
2000). But irrespective of the coding of the polarity function by syntactic or
lexical means in a language, prosody always intervenes and codes subcatego-
risations. This prosody effect also applies to Information Questions. In
Confirmation Questions, prosodic patterns are of prime importance, in
combination with a variety of formal structures, ranging from question-word
to declarative syntax to non-sentential phrases.
Information Questions are coded uniformly across the languages of the
world by lexical interrogative elements, e.g. English who, what, where, when,
at what time, why, for what reason, how, what for, German wer, wen, was, wo,
wann, um wieviel Uhr, warum, aus welchem Grund, wie, wozu. Languages
206 The Appeal Function
differ as to the position of the lexical question marker in syntactic structure
(Dryer 2013). In European languages, they have a sentence-initial position by
default, for example in German and English
Wer hat das gemacht? Who did that?
Wann/Wo/Wie ist es passiert? When/where/how did it happen?
Other languages, such as Mandarin Chinese, Japanese or sub-Saharan Af-
rican, do not have this default initial-position rule. For example, Chinese sen-
tences have the basic semantic frame <Agent> <Action> <Goal>. <Time>
and <Place> can either precede or follow <Agent>, together or separate-
ly, but cannot occur before or after <Goal>. The sequencing of <Time> and
<Place> is such that <Time> always comes ﬁrst. This semantic frame ap-
plies both to Statements and Information Questions. In the Question,
the respective Statement slot is ﬁlled by the <Time>, <Place>, <Agent>
or <Goal> interrogative word. The interrogative stays in the corresponding
structural place of the Statement, which may vary according to accentuation,
communicative contextualisation and speaking style. Here are some examples
showing the principle (I thank Wentao Gu, Nanjing, for providing them):
Deviation from default initial position is possible in German or English for
speciﬁc communicative functions, especially turn sequencing in dialogue. The
principle is the same as in Mandarin Chinese: a question-word phrase is insert-
ed in the appropriate slot of declarative syntax. In German declaratives, the
ordering of propositional constituents is
<Agent> <Action> < Goal> <Time> <Manner> <Place>,
<Wang2Fang1> <jin1tian1 xia4wu3> <zai4 cheng2li3> <yu4dao4 le0>
<WangFang> <this afternoon> <in the town> <meet>
<ta1 de0 lao3peng2you3>
<his old pal>
<Wang2Fang1> <jin1tian1 xia4wu3> < PLACEX zai4 nar3> <yu4dao4 le0>
<WangFang> <this afternoon> < PLACEX where> <meet>
<ta1 de0 lao3peng2you3>
<his old pal>
<Wang2Fang1> < TIMEX shen2me0 shi2hou4> <zai4 cheng2li3><yu4dao4 le0>
<WangFang> <TIMEX when> <in the town> <ymeet>
<ta1 de0 lao3peng2you3>
<his old pal>
<Wang2Fang1> <jin1tian1 xia4wu3> <zai4 cheng2li3> <yu4dao4 le0:
<WangFang> <this afternoon> <in the town> <meet<
< GOALX shui2>
< GOALX whom>
whereas in English it is
<Agent> <Action> <Goal> <Place> <Manner> <Time>.
The following examples illustrate the interrogative insertion into declarative
structure:
(For further details, see 4.2.2.3)
The Question Appeal in human communication across languages is con-
ceptualised as a proposition with semantic unknowns sent to a receiver to be
verbally resolved. Statements and Questions are thus postulated in parallel
as either Asserting or Enquiring Representation.
In a Polarity Question, the unknown truth value is formally realised by:
• a particle, initial or ﬁnal in the sentence, or before the focused element
• sentence-initial position of the inﬂected verb
• a paraphrase, e.g. French ‘est-ce que’
• pitch patterns that boost high frequency, e.g. in colloquial Rus-
sian, Neapolitan Italian, colloquial French (beside word order and
paraphrase).
Initial particle or verb placement identiﬁes an utterance immediately as a
Polarity Question against a Statement. A later position in the sentence,
such as the ﬁnal ma in Mandarin Chinese, is usually coupled with raising
pitch level early on. Alongside sentence-initial verb position, there are also
post-statement question tags in English (‘He’s in Rome, is he/isn’t he?’), or
post-statement particles in German (‘Er ist in Rom, ja/nicht (wahr)?’), see
4.2.2.6. This reverses the semantic structure from a unitary ‘<TruthX>: prop-
osition’ to a theme-rheme sequence ‘proposition: <TruthX>’ and moves the
utterance more in the direction of a Statement.
In an Information Question, the unknown semantic constituent is for-
mally realised by an interrogative pronoun or adverb referring to the cor-
responding structural element of the declarative syntax, and is either put in
sentence-initial position by default or is inserted in the appropriate slot of the
declarative syntax.
In a Confirmation Question, an already available proposition is queried
with regard to its truth value or with regard to a semantic component in the
proposition by raising pitch in one form or another in all languages.
<Martin> <trifft> <seinen alten Kumpel><TIMEX wann><zum Kaffee><in der Stadt>
<Martin> <is meeting> <his old pal> <in town> <for coffee> <TIMEX when>
The QUESTION APPEAL 207
208 The Appeal Function
4.2.2 QUESTION Functions and Interrogative Forms in German and English
4.2.2.1 Interrogative Structures and Prosodies in Polarity and
Information Questions
Over and above word order and lexical interrogatives, there are also prosodic
differentiators between Polarity and Information Questions in German
and English. Textbooks on these languages have been proposing a tight cor-
respondence between syntactic form and prosodic patterning for a long time:
word-order interrogatives have ﬁnal rising, lexical interrogatives ﬁnal falling
intonation (Armstrong and Ward 1931; von Essen 1964). Von Essen codiﬁed
this postulated syntax–prosody link terminologically by coining the term ques-
tion intonation to refer to a high-rising pitch pattern, which he associated with
word-order interrogatives. The London School of Phonetics described devia-
tions from these patterns as attitudinal overlays on basic form determined by
sentence type (Halliday 1967, 1970; O’Connor and Arnold 1961). Even as
recently as 2012, Xu and Liu (p. 16) maintain that the ‘pitch target of a stressed
syllable is [rise] in a yes/no question’ – in the opening paper of a collection un-
der the title ‘Understanding prosody’, which the editor (Niebuhr 2012) praises
as ‘incredible progress in our understanding of prosodic patterns’ (p. vii).
Fries (1964) questioned this tight syntax–prosody link of word-order in-
terrogatives and tested it with the analysis of an extensive American English
corpus of thirty-nine television–radio programmes in which a panel of four
persons, using, in turn, only yes-no questions, attempted to identify the precise
vocation, occupation or special activity of each of several ‘contestants’. He
found, across all speakers, 61.7% of examples with falling and 38.3% with
rising intonation. This result was contrary to the textbook statement. He com-
ments on it as follows:
The circumstances in which the programmes were carried on made the
speech forms used by these panellists the actual live conversation of language
actively fulﬁlling its communicative function. The speed and spontaneity
of the language activity of these panellists reduced to practical zero the
chance that the intonation forms of that language activity could have been
premeditated or deliberately chosen. (Fries 1964, p. 247)
In the structuralist tradition, Fries only provides the empirical data, without
attempting to explain them. He concludes:
The facts seem to support the conclusion that in English (at least in American
English) there is no question intonation pattern as such … when one
compares the intonation patterns of all yes-no questions with the intonation
patterns of all other types of questions, he will ﬁnd that, even with the ratio
3 to 2 in favour of falling intonation patterns for yes-no questions, which the
evidence here supports, there will be a higher proportion of rising intonation
patterns on yes-no questions than on other questions. But there seem to be no
intonation sequences on questions as a whole that are not also found on other
types of utterances, and no intonation sequences on other types of utterances
that are not found on questions. (Fries 1964, p. 250f)
Fries leaves unexplained
(a) why his data show the opposite trend to what the textbooks say
(b) why yes-no questions still have more rising contours.
As regards (a), the key lies in the communicative situation. Panellists word
their questions in a way to get the highest possible number of ‘yes’ responses
in order to win the game: they expect the answer ‘yes’ and indicate prosodical-
ly that they prejudge the contestant’s decision. It is a typical case of fact and
speaker orientation, which is associated with falling pitch. This does not, of
course, mean listener orientation does not occur; it is quite common in Fries’s
corpus when questions are repeated immediately by the same panellist because
they were not heard clearly or not understood. The repetition is listener-di-
rected after the factual question has been asked, i.e. rising pitch is very likely.
There are also cases where a ﬁrst repetition has rising intonation, signalling
listener orientation, and a second repetition has falling pitch turning factual.
As regards (b), the explanation points to a default link between question
functions and formal exponents. Fries is right in rejecting a question intonation
as such, determined solely by syntactic form. However, the probability of lis-
tener orientation, coded by rising pitch, is higher in word-order than in lexical
interrogatives because commonly the speaker does not prejudge the listen-
er’s polarity decision, or, contrariwise, because the speaker generally enquires
about facts, without concern for the listener. The actual pitch manifestation in
dialogue depends on the interaction of the basic functions of Polarity and
Information Questions and their pragmatic placing in the communicative
situation.
Kohler (2004) investigated the use of falling and rising pitch in both word-
order and lexical interrogatives in the Kiel Corpus of Spontaneous Speech,
Appointment Scenario (IPDS 1995–7). Table 4.1 gives the distribution of
absolute and relative frequencies of falling (f), high-rising (hr), low-rising (lr)
and other (o) pitch patterns in word-order and question-word interrogatives. It
may be summarised in three statements:
• Falling and rising patterns occur with both interrogatives.
• Word-order interrogatives have predominantly rising patterns, lexical
interrogatives predominantly falling ones.
The QUESTION APPEAL 209
210 The Appeal Function
• There is a negligible proportion of high-rising contours in lexi-
cal interrogatives, whereas this pattern dominates in word-order
interrogatives.
Among the corpus data there are examples of all four syntax–prosody com-
binations spoken by one and the same female speaker (ANS) in appointment-
making dialogue session g09a. They are presented graphically in Figure 4.1.
Below they are given in orthographic form with PROLAB prosodic annotation
and interpreted semantically in their contextual settings. In a complementary
step, they were resynthesised, changing the pitch pattern from falling to rising
or vice versa in each case, using Praat. They will be interpreted in the same nat-
urally produced context with regard to contextual compatibility and pragmatic
and attitudinal change of meaning.
Aa word order + ﬁnal rising intonation – g091a13l
&1[Würde Ihnen das &, &2[passen &? &PG
[Would that suit you?]
Two turns back; ANS asked about the possibility of arranging a two-day
workshop meeting in December. Dialogue partner FRS replies that it may be
arranged from the 14th onwards. ANS picks this up with the suggestion ‘vi-
erzehnter und fünfzehnter Dezember’ [14 and 15 of December], followed by
her question. In this dialogue context, ANS stimulates FRS to give an answer
whether she really can ﬁt these two dates into her calendar. The stimulation
signal is a ﬁnal &? high rise. By using a low dip into a high rise in a late
valley, the speaker signals personal concern to ﬁnd a suitable date, and there-
by makes the stimulation more demanding. An early valley, without a low
dip, on the other hand, signals detached matter-of-fact stimulation. When the
dip into the accented vowel is increased, the personal concern becomes more
prominent.
Resynthesised with a ﬁnal fall, the utterance suggests that the speaker pre-
judges the answer ‘yes’. This effect is strongest with an early peak, by which
the speaker concludes that the two dates she has mentioned are settled, because
Table 4.1. Distribution of pitch patterns across word-order and lexical
interrogatives in the Kiel Corpus of Spontaneous Speech
f hr lr o total
word-order 25 (21%) 47 (39%) 37 (30%) 12 (10%) 121 (100%)
lexical 98 (57%) 17 (10%) 42 (24%) 15 (9%) 172 (100%)
Figure 4.1. 2x2 syntax–prosody display of four Questions from one speaker
in the Kiel Corpus of Spontaneous Speech. A word order B lexical a rising
b falling F0. Spectrograms with F0 traces (log scale) of complete original
utterances: Aa late-valley ‘Würde Ihnen das passen?’ Ba late-valley ‘An
welchen Tagen hätten Sie Zeit?’ Ab early peak ‘Haben Sie denn ein’
Termin noch im Mai frei?’ Bb medial peak ‘Was würden Sie denn davon
halten?’ More clearly marked F0 dip into the accented vowel of Ba also
transferred to Aa (dotted line). Four synthetic changes of F0 in the ﬁnal
accent section: in panel a–s reversal to three falling patterns (early, medial,
medial-to-late peaks) and early valley; in panel b–s reversal to two rising
patterns (early, late valleys) and two falling patterns (Ab–s medial, medial-
to-late Bb–s early, medial-to-late); valleys thin lines (early plain, late
dotted), peaks thick lines (early plain, medial dashed, medial-to-late dotted).
Standard German, female speaker (ANS).
The QUESTION APPEAL 211
212 The Appeal Function
they agree with the boundary date already established by the dialogue partner.
The early peak interrogative may be paraphrased as ‘I’m sure you will agree.’
In a medial-peak resynthesis, the speaker asks for a decision on her proposal
and expects it to be ‘yes’. This may be paraphrased as ‘What about these two
dates?’
Finally, a medial-to-late peak resynthesis adds irritation to prejudging the
answer: ‘I hope you are not going to turn this offer down!’ This is in keeping
with the semantics of the medial-to-late peak, i.e. ‘pointing to some contrast to
one’s expectation’. It is out of place in the context created here by the dialogue
partners.
Ab word order + ﬁnal falling intonation – g092a00l
&2^-(Haben Sie denn einen &1. &2)Term'in noch im &0. &2)Mai frei &2.
&PG
[Have you still got a free date for an appointment in May?]
This question is preceded by ANS thanking FRS for the invitation to meet.
With the ﬁnal early peak fall, she concludes with conﬁdence that the dialogue
partner will be able to offer a date in May.
The resynthesis with a ﬁnal &? high rise stimulates the listener to suggest
a date. A late-valley rise signals personal concern and makes the stimulation
more demanding; an early-valley rise is detached matter-of-fact. The resyn-
thesis with a medial peak also prejudges the answer ‘yes’, but gives ‘May’
greater weight, singling it out as the month when ANS would like to have
the meeting. Resynthesis with a medial-to-late peak puts the speaker’s expec-
tation in contrast to what the listener might propose, and thus introduces a
note of ‘irritation’. This is inappropriate in a cooperative appointment-making
context.
Ba question word + ﬁnal rising intonation – g095a02l
An &2^-(welchen &0. &1-Tagen hätten Sie &1. &2[Zeit &, &PG [On
which days are you free?]
This turn was preceded by two turns in which an appointment was discussed
in general terms and where the dialogue partner mentioned that her timetable
was very tight. ANS refers back to this with ‘Das heißt’ [That means] and then
asks the question with a late-valley. The ﬁnal rise ends considerably lower
than in g091a13l, and at the same time has a larger F0 dip into the accented
vowel. These features signal request rather than stimulation, categorised as
&, low rise, rather than &? high rise. The speaker expresses personal concern
for the listener’s scheduling problems and requests her to give more speciﬁc
information. This personal concern makes the utterance more subdued, polite
and friendly. A ﬁnal early-valley rise turns the question into a routine request
without personal concern.
The resynthesis with a ﬁnal fall lacks the effects of stimulation and con-
sideration; it becomes entirely factual. The early peak conveys the meaning
of restricting the discussion to a closed set of dates available to the dialogue
partner: ‘Let me have your free dates then, and we will see what we can do.’
The medial peak conveys the meaning of opening a discussion of mutually
suitable dates: ‘Let’s discuss how your free dates ﬁt in with mine.’ The medial-
to-late peak adds a note of irritation, expressing opposition to the dialogue
partner’s vagueness and limitation in the appointment-making: ‘When, after
all, WOULD you be free?’
The valley patterns are the best ﬁt in the cooperative context the dialogue
partners create in three turns. The medial-to-late peak is not contextually com-
patible with cooperative appointment-scheduling. The medial peak would be
more appropriate in an opening turn, when the speaker expresses the wish
to arrange a meeting and then asks for a suggestion of dates. The early peak
can occur in the setting of g095a02l because it refers back to pre-established
facts, in this case to the limited availability previously mentioned by the dia-
logue partner. But it would be incompatible with an opening turn, because
there is no pre-established reference, unless the speaker offers a restricted list
and then asks which of these dates are suitable. For example: ‘Wir müssen uns
zu einer Besprechung treffen. Ich kann nächste Woche anbieten. An welchen
Tagen hätten Sie Zeit?’ [We need to meet for a discussion. I can offer next
week…]
Bb question word + ﬁnal falling intonation – g094a00l
Was &2^würden Sie denn davon &1. &2^halten &2. &PG
[What do you think of that?]
The question ends in a medial-peak fall and concludes the opening dialogue
turn, in which the speaker proposes a meeting to prepare a trip they will have
to do together. The speaker’s intention is not to sound out the other person’s
attitude towards such an arrangement but to hand over the turn for a concrete
statement about a date for a preparatory meeting.
The resynthesis with ﬁnal &? high-rising pitch stimulates the addressee to
convey how she feels about a preparatory meeting. The effect is stronger with
a late valley, which adds the expression of personal concern. An early peak
resynthesis supports turn conclusion. A medial-to-late peak resynthesis adds
contrast, suggesting that the dialogue partner might not be in favour. This is
not contextually compatible with cooperative appointment-scheduling.
The QUESTION APPEAL 213
214 The Appeal Function
The context-rooted discussion of the data from speaker ANS in dialogue
g09a of the Kiel Corpus and of the systematic synthetic derivations, presented
graphically in Figure 4.1, leads to the following statements about intonation in
German Questions.
• All four combinations of word-order versus lexical interrogative, and
rising versus falling pitch on the ﬁnal accent, differentiate types of
Polarity and Information Questions.
• The basic semantics of Polarity Questions is listener-oriented,
and in this function they use word-order interrogative syntax with
ﬁnal &? high-rising pitch, stimulating the listener to make a polarity
decision.
• The basic semantics of Information Questions is fact- and speaker-
oriented, and in this function they are lexical interrogative with fall-
ing pitch.
• Falling pitch in word-order interrogatives moves the orientation to
the facts and to the speaker, as it focuses on the speaker’s expectation
that the answer to the question will occur at one pole, ‘yes’ in the case
of positive, ‘no’ in the case of negative phrasing.
• Final &? high-rising pitch in lexical interrogatives moves the orienta-
tion to the listener, as it stimulates the listener to provide information.
• The falling pitch in both question functions may be an early, a medial
or a medial-to-late peak. With an early peak, the speaker signals that a
ﬁnal judgement or a piece of information is required from the receiver
to conclude the preceding interaction: this is the Finality function.
With a medial peak, the speaker signals that the question opens a
new interaction: this is the Openness function. The medial-to-late
peak introduces Contrast into Openness. These functions of the
different peak synchronisations are discussed for Statements in 3.3.
The late peak for Expressive Unexpectedness, superimposed on
Contrast, is also part of the Statement pattern set, but was not
found in the Question data of the corpus, because the Expressive
Function is alien to more matter-of-fact appointment-scheduling.
Its occurrence in Questions is discussed in 4.2.2.2/3.
• The ﬁnal &? high-rising pitch in both question functions may be an
early or a late valley. Both pitch patterns function as Response Stim-
ulation signals to the listener, either to make a polarity decision
or to provide information. With an early valley, Response Stimu-
lation is Matter-of-Fact; with a late valley, the speaker adds
Expression of Personal Concern to Stimulation, making it
more demanding.
• In the corpus data, there are also ﬁnal &, low rises, with which the
speaker signals Response Request, i.e. Subordination to, rather
than Stimulation of, the listener, thus swapping the active and pas-
sive roles in the interaction between sender and receiver, compared
with the high rise. The question becomes a polite enquiry, which is
Matter-of-Fact with an early valley; a late valley adds Expres-
sion of Personal Concern to Request, making it more subdued,
polite and friendly. This type of Question comes under Ohala’s Fre-
quency Code (1983, 1984); see 6.2.
• There is a considerable proportion of ﬁnal low rises, but only very
few ﬁnal high rises, in lexical interrogatives in the corpus. But if the
speaker stimulates the listener with a Confirmation Question, i.e.
the repetition of what the addressee has already said, a high rise on
the interrogative word is obligatory. On the other hand, if the speak-
er makes a polite enquiry for more speciﬁc information than the ad-
dressee has given, this additional Information Question has a low
rise on the interrogative word; see 4.2.2.3.
The re-interpretation of Fries’s English data under a functional perspec-
tive shows that, given the appropriate communicative context, falling pitch
is the accompaniment of interrogative syntax in American English Polarity
Questions. It may be assumed that this pattern is widespread across varieties
of L1 English (but see 3.1.3 for Urban North British). Furthermore, it may
be hypothesised that the patterning found in the German corpus data and in
their resynthesised derivatives can also be postulated for the network of in-
terrogatives and prosodies in Polarity and Information Question func-
tions in English. Corresponding data need to be collected and analysed equally
systematically.
The German data demonstrate that corpus analyses that are approached only
from a descriptive statistical point of view, like Fries’s, miss important ex-
planatory aspects, which come into focus when the data are investigated in
their contextual setting. This is considered the key to the understanding of the
use of pitch patterns in speech communication. But prosody also needs to be
modelled theoretically as an independent constitutive determinant of meaning
that goes beyond the concrete environment found hic et nunc in a corpus. This
approach thus follows Selting (1995) as far as focus on the communicative
setting is concerned, but goes beyond the individual corpus data to arrive at
The QUESTION APPEAL 215
216 The Appeal Function
generalisations about Representation, Appeal and Expression in Bühler’s
communication triangle. The following sections develop a comprehensive
framework of functions and forms of Questions for German and English.
4.2.2.2 Polarity Questions
To enquire about the unknown truth value of a proposition, Polarity Ques-
tions, with Listener or Fact and Speaker Orientation, combine inter-
rogative word-order syntax with accentuation and intonation patterns.
(1) Syntactic Structures
A German or English Polarity Question like
Trifft Martin seinen alten Kumpel heute Nachmittag in der Stadt?
Is Martin meeting his old pal in town this afternoon?
enquires about the truth value of a proposition that contains the following
semantic constituents:
<Truth x>: <Action> <Agent> <Goal> <Time> <Place>
With the default syntactic structures for the semantic constituents of proposi-
tions in Statements (see 3.1), we get
in German
in English
In a Polarity Question in German, the inﬂected auxiliary or ﬁnite verb
changes places with the constituent in the ﬁrst structural slot; the syntactic
order of the remaining constituents stays the same for Question and State-
ment, including the sentence-ﬁnal position of the uninﬂected verb of the ver-
bal phrase. In English, the auxiliary part of a verb form, or the placeholder ‘do’
in case the verbal phrase does not contain an auxiliary, is assigned to the new
initial position, and the verb representing the <Action> ﬁlls the same slot as
in the Statement:
<TRUTH X>:
<AGENT> <ACTION> <GOAL> <TIME> <PLACE>
<Martin> <trifft> <seinen alten Kumpel> <heute Nachmittag> <in der Stadt>.
<TRUTH X>:
<AGENT > <ACTION> <GOAL> <PLACE> <TIME>
<Martin> <is meeting> <his old pal> <in town> <this afternoon>.
If, in German, <Agent>and <Goal>are ﬁlled by pronouns (e.g. ‘er’ [he],
‘ihn’ [him] in the above examples), they are enclitic to the verb:
The German ﬂexibility of syntactic ordering in Statements is replicated
when the verb is fronted for Polarity Questions:
The only ﬂexibility of structural ordering in English Statements occurs
when the <Time> or <Place> coordinates for an <Action> are set as the
theme for the proposition. A Polarity Question cannot have such a theme-
rheme structure because it enquires about the truth value of the whole proposi-
tion (but see 4.2.2.6 for question tags). Therefore, <Time> or <Place> have to
stay in their propositional structural slots, unless they form a separate Confir-
mation Question (see 4.2.2.4) and are picked up by unaccented anaphoric
deixis in the Polarity Question following it, as in:
A: &2What are &2Martin’s &2plans for this &2afternoon?
Has he got anything &2on in &2town this &0afternoon?
B: This &3afternoon? Isn’t he &2meeting his old &2pal in &2town for
&2coffee &1then?
In &3town? Isn’t he &2meeting his old &2pal &1there for
&2coffee?
Either <Time> or <Place> can also be put initially in a German State-
ment, but, as in English, the theme-rheme structure is excluded from a
Polarity Question, except when a tightly linked preceding Confirmation
Question functions as the theme:
<ACTION Trifft> <AGENT Martin> <GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>
<TIME heute Nachmittag> <PLACE in der Stadt>?
<ACTION auxiliary Will> <AGENT Martin> <GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>
<TIME heute Nachmittag> <PLACE in der Stadt> <ACTION verb uninfl treffen>?
<ACTION auxiliary Is> <AGENT Martin> <ACTION verb meeting>
<GOAL his old pal> <PLACE in town> <TIME this afternoon>?
<ACTION Trifft> <AGENT er> <GOAL ihn> <TIME heute Nachmittag>
<PLACE in der Stadt>?
<ACTION Trifft> Martin <TIME heute Nachmittag> <GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>
< PLACE in der Stadt >?
<ACTION Trifft> Martin <TIME heute Nachmittag> < PLACE in der Stadt >
<GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>?
<ACTION Trifft> Martin <PLACE in der Stadt> < TIME heute Nachmittag>
<GOAL seinen alten Kumpel>?
The QUESTION APPEAL 217
218 The Appeal Function
A: Was für &2Pläne hat &2Martin für heute &2Nachmittag?
Hat er irgend was &2vor in der &2Stadt heute &0Nachmittag?
B: Heute &3Nachmittag? &2Trifft er &1dann nicht seinen alten
&2Kumpel in der &2Stadt zum &2Kaffee?
In der &3Stadt? &2Trifft er &1da nicht seinen alten &2Kumpel zum
&2Kaffee?
In both languages, Polarity Question structures are derived in the same
way from any Statement structure when the proposition is based on <Event
Occurrence>. The inﬂected verb is put in ﬁrst position, which removes the
need for a <subject> placeholder ‘es’ in German. For example:
In certain contexts of situation, a Polarity Question may be limited to
asking for the truth value of the predicate of a proposition, or of one of the
semantic predicate components. In that case, declarative structure is reduced
to various elliptic forms, with a declarative intermediary in English, moving
meaning from linguistic to situational context. For example, at a business
meeting, assistants may go round serving coffee, asking:
‘Would you like some coffee?’ or
‘D’you like some coffee?’ or
‘(You) like some coffee?’ or
‘(Some) coffee?’
with high-rising valleys.
All these forms are Polarity Questions, enquiring as to the truth value of
‘coffee wanted’.
In German, the options are more restricted:
‘Möchten Sie ’ne Tasse Kaffee?’ or
‘((’ne) Tasse) Kaffee?’,
with high-rising valleys.
<OCCURRENCE infl Findet> <EVENT subject der jährliche Bauernmarkt>
<TIME am Wochenende> < PLACE auf Gut Emkendorf> <OCCURRENCE uninfl statt>?
<OCURRENCE infl Will> <EVENT subject the annual farmers’ market>
<OCURRENCE uninfl take place><PLACE on the Emkendorf Estate>
<TIME this weekend>?
<OCCURRENCE infl Findet> <TIME am Wochenende> <PLACE auf Gut Emkendorf>
<<EVENT subject ein Bauernmarkt> <OCCURRENCE uninfl statt>?
<OCCURRENCE Will there be> < EVENT subject a farmers’ market>
< PLACE on the Emkendorf Estate> < TIME this weekend>?
The declarative form
‘Sie möchten Kaffee?’
is not possible because the content verb swaps structural positions with the
subject. It is thus not a step in a linear curtailing of interrogative form, as it can
be in English. It becomes a Confirmation Question, enquiring the truth
value of the speaker’s presupposition of common ground in the speaker–lis-
tener action ﬁeld (see 4.2.2.4):
‘You’ve seen me serving coffee, and from your looking towards me I assume
that you might like some. Conﬁrm.’
Another instance of ellipsis in Polarity Questions is addressing someone
by their name without being absolutely certain. ‘Michael Smith?’ means ‘Are
you Michael Smith?’ The intonation may be either a high-rising valley, or a
medial peak in high register when the speaker is fairly conﬁdent of being right.
(2) Accent Patterns
In both German and English Polarity Questions, the same accentuation
patterns hold as in Statements (see 3.1).
Any part of the syntactic structure representing a semantic constituent of the
proposition may be put in focus by deaccenting all other structural elements;
in addition, the focus may be reinforced to accent &3. In communicative inter-
action, a speaker decides on how many of these backgrounded elements may
be omitted because their semantic referents can be inferred by the listener. In a
Polarity Question, the unknown truth value of an <Event> may be put in
<&1trifft> <&2Martin> <seinen &1alten &2Kumpel> <&1heute &|2Nachmittag>
<in der &2Stadt>?
<&0Will> <&2Martin> <seinen &1alten &2Kumpel> <&1heute &|2Nachmittag>
<in der &2Stadt> <&1treffen>?
<&0Is> <&2Martin> <&1meeting> <his &1old &2pal> <in &|2town>
<this &2aftern'oon>?
<&0Will> <&2Martin> <&1meet> <his &1old &2pal> <in &|2town>
<this &2aftern'oon>?
<&0Findet><der &1jährliche &2Bauernmarkt><am &2Wochenende>
<auf &1Gut &2Emkendorf> <&1statt>?
<&0Wird><der &1jährliche &2Bauernmarkt><am &2Wochenende>
<auf &1Gut &2Emkendorf> <&1stattfinden>?
<&0Will> <the &1annual &0farmers’ &2market> <&0take &1place>
<on the &2Emkendorf &2Est'ate> <this &1week&2end>?
The QUESTION APPEAL 219
220 The Appeal Function
focus by reinforcing either the uninﬂected non-initial part of the verbal phrase,
as in
<&0Findet> <der &1jährliche &1Bauernmarkt><am &1Wochenende>
<auf &1Gut &1Emkendorf> <&3statt>?
<&0Will> <&1the annual &0farmers’ &1market> <&0take &3place>
<on the &1Enkendorf &1Est'ate> <this &0week&1end>?
or the initial inﬂected part, as in
<&3Findet> <der &1jährliche &1Bauernmarkt><am &1Wochenende>
<auf &1Gut &1Emkendorf> <&0statt>?
<&3Will> <the &1annual &0farmers’ &1market> <&0take &1place>
<on the &1Enkendorf &1Est'ate> <this &0week&1end>?
The former enquires in an intensiﬁed fact-oriented way as to whether the ‘an-
nual market’ speciﬁed for <Time> and <Place> will actually be on; the latter
adds the expression of doubt about the <Event Occurrence> being true.
(3) Intonation Patterns
In addition to the accentual scalings, various peak and valley pitch patterns
may be linked to the accents, producing a great variety of prosodic realisations
with ﬁne semantic differentiation. The pitch pattern at the last full accent =
>&2 in the prosodic phrase, the nucleus, determines the question subcategory.
The system of Polarity Questions comprises the following terms:
PQ-1 FACT AND SPEAKER ORIENTATION: prejudging a uni-polar decision
PQ-1a FINALITY
PQ-1b OPENNESS
PQ-1c CONTRAST
PQ-1d EXPRESSION OF UNEXPECTEDNESS
PQ-2 LISTENER ORIENTATION: soliciting a bi-polar decision
PQ-2.1 RESPONSE REQUEST
PQ-2(.1)a MATTER-OF-FACT
PQ-2(.1)b EXPRESSIVE
PQ-2.2 RESPONSE STIMULATION
PQ-2(.2)c MATTER-OF-FACT
PQ-2(.2)d EXPRESSIVE
The pitch patterns associated with these question categories are illustrat-
ed by the displays of the possible intonations in the German sentence ‘Ist er
in Rom?’ in Figure 4.2. The utterance is contextualised in the following dia-
logue, with English function and form equivalents, followed by the functional
descriptions of the peak and valley patterns at ‘&2Rom’.
A1: Wo ist er denn eigentlich? Where is he, I wonder?
B: Er ist nach Italien gefahren. He’s gone to Italy.
A2: Ist er in &2Rom? Is he in &2Rome?
PQ-1a With an early peak, A wants more information about the person’s
whereabouts and suggests a place, expecting the answer to be ‘yes’ and
signalling that the preceding interchange will thus be concluded: Finality
‘where he always goes’
Ist er in &2)Rom &2. &PG
PQ-1b With a medial peak, A wants more information and suggests a place,
expecting the answer to be ‘yes’ – as in PQ-1a – but opens a new
interchange: Openness
Ist er in &2^Rom &2. &PG
PQ-1c With a medial-to-late peak, A wants more information, as in PQ-1b, but
singles out a place and suggests it contrastively as the most likely one. This
superimposes Contrast on Openness.
Ist er in &2^-(Rom &2. &PG
PQ-1d With a late peak, A signals the need for more information, as in
PQ-1c, but adds Expression of Unexpectedness. This superimposes
the Expression of Unexpectedness on Openness and Contrast
Ist er in &2(Rom &2. &PG
PQ-2a With an early low-rising valley, A does not prejudge the answer but
requests an open polarity decision from the listener. The sender is the
passive, the receiver the active, partner in this interaction of Matter-of-
Fact Response Request.
Ist er in &2]Rom &, &PG
PQ-2b With a late low-rising valley, A still requests an open polarity decision
from the listener, but adds Expression of Personal Concern, which
makes the request more subdued, polite and friendly.
Ist er in &2[Rom &, &PG
PQ-2c With an early high-rising valley, A does not prejudge the answer but
stimulates the listener to make an open polarity decision. The sender is the
active, the receiver the passive partner in this interaction of Matter-of-
Fact Response Stimulation.
Ist er in &2]Rom &? &PG
PQ-2d With a late high-rising valley, A still stimulates the listener to make an
open polarity decision, but adds Expression of Personal Concern,
which in this context is Surprise at ‘the person perhaps being in Rome’.
Ist er in &2[Rom &? &PG
The QUESTION APPEAL 221
222 The Appeal Function
4.2.2.3 Information Questions
For enquiring about an unknown semantic constituent of a proposition, Infor-
mation Questions, with Fact or Listener Orientation, combine lexical
interrogative structures with accent and intonation patterns.
Figure 4.2. Speech waves, F0 traces (log scale), segmental transcriptions,
grouped into prehead and nucleus, and nucleus classiﬁcations in the
German Polarity Questions of ‘Ist er in Rom?’ PQ-1 Speaker Orientation
a Finality b Openness c Contrast d Unexpectedness; PQ-2 Listener
Orientation a Response Request, Matter-of-fact b Response Request,
Expressive c Response Stimulation, Matter-of-fact d Response Stimulation,
Expressive. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
(1) Syntactic Structures and Accent Patterns
Taking the German and English Statements
as points of departure, any one of the propositional constituents may become
an unknown, coded by the corresponding interrogative pronominal or adverbi-
al in an Information Question:
The interrogative is put in sentence-initial position, and, for other than
<AgentX> (or <Event X>), subject> and <inﬂ verb> (which in English is
an auxiliary or the placeholder ‘do’) are inverted, but the syntactic ordering of
the other constituents is retained, for example
When <Action> or <Event Occurrence> is the unknown, the question
is whether the action takes place or the event occurs, i.e. whether they are true,
which is coded by a Polarity Question.
It follows from the structural parallelism of Information Questions and
Statements that the default accent pattern is the same for both: each propo-
sitional constituent, including the unknown, receives an accent, which is &1
associated with <Action/Event Occurrence>, &2 in all other cases. Any
constituent, including the unknown, may be put in focus with a default &2
or a reinforced &3 accent, and deaccentuation of all the others. As in State-
ments and Polarity Questions, the speaker decides what can be inferred
from the communicative situation and may thus be omitted. Backgrounding is
also achieved by unaccented pronominal reference. In the following dialogue,
Speaker A leaves out the <Time> information, which Speaker B then enquires
about, with a peak accent on the interrogative word and at least partial de-
accentuation of all the other propositional constituents, and with pronominal
anaphoric <Agent> and <Goal> references.
<AGENT> <ACTION> <GOAL> <TIME> <MANNER> <PLACE>
<Martin> <trifft> <seinen alten Kumpel> <heute Nachmittag> <zum Kaffee> <in der Stadt>.
<AGENT > <ACTION> <GOAL> <PLACE> <MANNER> <TIME>
<Martin> <is meeting> <his old pal> <in town> <for coffee> <this afternoon>.
<AGENTX> <GOALX> <TIMEX> <MANNERX> <PLACEX>
<wer,was/who,what><wen/who(m)> <wann/when> <wozu/what for> <wo/where>
<TIMEX wann> <trifft> <Martin> <seinen alten Kumpel> <in der Stadt>?
<TIMEX when> <is> <Martin> <meeting> <his old pal> <in town> ?
A: <Martin> <trifft> <seinen alten Kumpel> <zum Kaffee> <in der Stadt>.
<Martin> < is meeting><his old pal> <in town> <for coffee>.
B: <&2TIMEX wann> <&0trifft er ihn> <zum &0Kaffee> <in der &0Stadt?
<&2TIMEX when> <is he &0meeting him><in &0town> <for&0 coffee>?
The QUESTION APPEAL 223
224 The Appeal Function
This lexical interrogative structure is commonly curtailed by leaving out
the non-pronominal referents, and, in a second step, also the pronominal ones,
retaining only the interrogative word, successively replacing linguistic context
by situational context.
It was mentioned in 4.2.1 that Information Questions formed with in-
terrogative words in declarative slots in e.g. Mandarin Chinese are also found
in German and English as a deviant structure from sentence-initial position for
speciﬁc semantic purposes. An unknown propositional constituent is singled
out for information retrieval and is put, in its lexical interrogative form, in the
appropriate declarative slot. This type of Information Question asks for
more information than has already been given, for instance to supply <Time>
or <Place> when only one, or neither, was provided by a dialogue partner in
a preceding statement. The focused internal interrogative word receives a peak
accent &2^ or &3^, followed by at least partial deaccentuation of all subse-
quent propositional constituents in the utterance and by pronominal anaphor-
ic reference, as in the case of the initial lexical interrogative. Thus, Speaker
B may produce the following turn in the above statement-question dialogue
frame:
This internal lexical interrogative differs functionally from its initial coun-
terpart; it sets a theme for the question by introducing it with an explicit refer-
ence to the proposition of the preceding statement. Deaccentuation of all the
propositional constituents after the interrogative word continue the question
theme and embed the question rheme in it. The theme-rheme structure in an
internal lexical interrogative is also the reason the German question is still
regular when <&2^TimeX wann> is moved from its default declarative slot to
the end of the utterance. With this theme-rheme structure the speaker signals
that s/he not only wants more speciﬁc information but also has to ask for it
specially because the dialogue partner did not provide it. This insistence on
missing information is absent from the initial lexical interrogative since it does
not set a theme that explicitly links the question to the preceding statement.
The internal lexical interrogative can also be curtailed, but the theme part be-
fore the focused interrogative word stays to maintain coding of this type of
Information Question.
If the <Time> or <Place> information that Speaker A gives is not consid-
ered precise enough by Speaker B, s/he may ask for more detail by putting the
B: <er &0trifft ihn> <&2TIMEX wann><zum &0Kaffee> <in der &0Stadt>?
<he is &0meeting him><in &0town> <for &0 coffee> <&2TIMEX when>?
known broad <Time> or <Place> frame in its declarative slot, and the un-
known narrow <TimeX> or <PlaceX> before it or initially in the utterance:
Speaker B may also eliminate thematic information from the question and
reduce the enquiry to the narrow <Time>or <Place> frame, with or without
the broad one, thus moving thematic information from the linguistic context to
the context of situation set by Speaker A:
(2) Intonation Patterns
The system of Information Question categories and of the peak and valley
pitch patterns associated with them at the last full accent = >&2 in the prosodic
phrase parallels the one outlined for Polarity Questions:
IQ-1 Fact Orientation: obtaining information about a propositional
constituent
IQ-1a Finality
IQ-1b Openness
IQ-1c Contrast
IQ-1d Expression of Unexpectedness
IQ-2 Listener Orientation: adding appeal to information enquiry
IQ-2.1 Response Request
IQ-2(.1)a Matter-of-fact
IQ-2(.1)b Expressive
IQ-2.2 Response Stimulation
IQ-2(.2)c Matter-of-fact
IQ-2(.2)d Expressive
The pitch patterns associated with these question categories are illustrat-
ed by the displays of the possible intonations in the German sentence ‘Wo?’
in Figure 4.3. The utterance is contextualised in the dialogues below, with
B: <&2TIMEX wann><&0trifft er ihn><heute &0Nachmittag> <zum &0Kaffee>?
<er &0trifft ihn><&2XTIME wann><heute &0Nachmittag> <zum &0Kaffee>?
<&2PLACEX wo> <&0trifft er ihn> <zum &0Kaffee> <in der &0Stadt>?
<er &0trifft ihn> <zum &0Kaffee> <&2XPLACE wo> <in der &0Stadt>?
<&2^TIMEX when><is he &0meeting him><for&0coffee><this &0afternoon>?
<he’s &0meeting him><for &0coffee><&2XTIME when><this &0afternoon>?
<&2PLACEX where> <is he &0meeting him> <in &0town> <for&0coffee>?
<he’s &0meeting him> <&2PLACE where> <in &0town> <for&0coffee>?
<&2TIMEX wann> (<heute &0Nachmittag>)?
<&2PLACEX wo> (<in der &0Stadt>)?
<&2TIMEX when> (<this &0afternoon>)?
<&2PLACEX where> (<in &0town>)?
The QUESTION APPEAL 225
226 The Appeal Function
English function and form equivalents, followed by the functional descriptions
of the peak and valley patterns at ‘&2wo’.
(I) A: Martin trifft seinen alten Kumpel heute Nachmittag zum Kaffee.
Martin is meeting his old pal for coffee this afternoon.
B: &2Wo?
&2Where?
(II) A: Martin trifft seinen alten Kumpel zum Kaffee in der Stadt.
Martin is meeting his old pal in town for coffee.
Figure 4.3. Speech waves, F0 traces (log scale), word segmentations and
pitch classiﬁcations in the German Information Questions ‘Wo?’ IQ-1
Speaker Orientation a Finality b Openness c Contrast d Unexpectedness;
IQ-2 Listener Orientation a Response Request, Matter-of-fact b Response
Request, Expressive c Response Stimulation, Matter-of-fact d Response
Stimulation, Expressive. Standard German, male speaker (KJK).
B: &2Wo in der &0Stadt?
&2Where in &0town?
(III) A: Martin trifft seinen alten Kumpel zum Kaffee in der Stadt.
Martin is meeting his old pal in town for coffee.
B: &2Wo?
&2Where?
In (I), Speaker A does not give any <Place> information, so Speaker B
asks for it. In (II), Speaker A provides a <Place> frame that Speaker B does
not consider sufﬁciently detailed, so Speaker B asks for a more speciﬁc narrow
frame explicitly by adding Speaker A’s broad frame to the unknown. In (III),
Speaker A gives the same information as in (II), but Speaker B refers to a sin-
gle <Place> frame. Speaker B’s intention may be either to obtain information
in a narrow <Place> frame, against the broad frame set by Speaker A, or to
appeal to Speaker A to conﬁrm the given <Place> information, (Confirma-
tion Question – see 4.2.2.4). Syntactic structure and accentuation cannot
distinguish between these two possibilities in (III): intonation solves the am-
biguity.
In all three dialogues, ‘wo/where’ receives one of the peak or valley pat-
terns of Figure 4.3. In (II), the fall of a peak trails off on low pitch, or the rise
of a valley continues monotonically across ‘in der Stadt/in town’. Since the
single accent on an initial or an internal interrogative word puts the <Place>
enquired about in focus, the question appeals to the receiver for <Place> in-
formation. In dialogue (I), the question solicits altogether new information,
because there is no preceding <Place> reference; in dialogue (II), it solicits
more speciﬁc information with explicit reference to the broad <Place> frame
given in the preceding statement. In dialogue (III), the question does not solicit
altogether new <Place> information because the statement context provid-
ed a frame. What it does solicit depends on the intonation pattern used on
the focused constituent. With peak patterns and with Response Requesting
low-rising valley patterns, the question solicits more speciﬁc information in
a narrower <Place> frame. But Response Stimulating high-rising valley
patterns add insistence to the enquiry, appealing to Speaker A to conﬁrm the
given <Place> information. Below are the detailed functional descriptions of
the eight formal patterns.
IQ-1a With an early peak, B asks for (more detailed) <Place > information,
which is missing but needed to complete the information exchange:
Finality – ‘That’s all I still need to know.’
&2)Wo &2. &PG
The QUESTION APPEAL 227
228 The Appeal Function
IQ-1b With a medial peak, B asks for (more detailed) <Place> information
– as in IQ-1a – but without indicating that this will complete the
information exchange: Openness – ‘I need to know more.’
&2^Wo &2. &PG
IQ-1c With a medial-to-late peak, B asks for (more detailed) <Place>
information – as in IQ-1b – but with a note of annoyance,
superimposing Contrast on Openness – ‘I need to know, but you did
not tell me.’
&2^-(Wo &2. &PG
IQ-1d With a late peak, B asks for (more detailed) <Place> information – as
in IQ- 1c – but adds Expression of Unexpectedness to Openness
and Contrast – ‘Where on earth are they meeting?’
&2(Wo &2. &PG
IQ-2(.1)a With an early low-rising valley, B requests <Place> information from
A which is either missing in dialogue (I), or not detailed enough in
dialogues (II) and (III). The low F0 end point precludes interpretation
as a Confirmation Question in dialogue (II). This is a Matter-of-
Fact Response Request.
&2]Wo &, &PG
IQ-2(.1)b With a late low-rising valley, B still requests <Place> information from
A as in IQ-2a, but adds Expression of Personal Concern, which
makes the request more subdued, polite and friendly.
&2[Wo &, &PG
IQ-2(.2)c With an early high-rising valley, B sends Matter-of-Fact Response
Stimulation to A, to provide the missing <Place> information in
dialogue (I), or to ﬁll a narrow <Place> frame within A’s broad frame
in (II). But since in dialogue (III) B’s <Place> frame is not formally
marked as narrow, versus a broad frame from A, the early high-rising
valley stimulates A to Confirm the <Place> Information already
given: Confirmation Question (see 4.2.2.4).
&2]Wo &? &PG
IQ-2(.2)d With a late high-rising valley, B stimulates A to provide <Place>
information in the same three different ways as in IQ-2c, but adds
Expression of Personal Concern, which in dialogues (I) and (II)
may be impatience to get the information; in dialogue (III), it may be
disbelieving the information received, therefore needing conﬁrmation:
Confirmation Question (see 4.2.2.4)
&2[Wo &? &PG
To round off this section on Information Questions, here are some se-
lective original data from English, illustrated in Figure 4.4 and functionally
interpreted in the context:
A: We’ll meet in Auchterarder tomorrow.
B: &2Where?
IQ-1a With a medial peak, B asks for more information about the location of
the venue in the town.
&2^Where &2. &PG
IQ-1b With a medial-to-late peak, B stresses the need for more information
about the venue against the insufﬁciency of the information so far given
by A. The utterance has a tone of irritation and impatience: ‘But where?
Your information is rather imprecise.’
&2^-(Where &2. &PG
IQ-2b With a late low (falling-)rising valley, where the rise starts in the accented
vowel, B still asks for more information about the venue, but makes a
request appeal to the listener. The fall adds contrast, but the utterance
sounds less categorical and more friendly than with a peak pattern.
&2^Where &,. &PG &2[Where &, &PG
IQ-2c With an early high-rising valley, B stimulates conﬁrmation of the
<Place> information A has already given, because B disbelieves what
s/he has perceived due to the strangeness of the name and the unfamiliarity
with the small Scottish town: Confirmation Question (see 4.2.2.4)
&2] Where &? &PG
4.2.2.4 Confirmation Questions
Two types of Confirmation Question were distinguished in 4.2.1, depend-
ing on whether a semantic component, or the truth value of a proposition, al-
ready available in the interaction, is questioned for conﬁrmation. This makes it
necessary to relate Confirmation Questions to Information Questions
on the one hand, and to Statements and Polarity Questions on the other.
(1) Lexical Interrogative Structure in INFORMATION versus CONFIRMA-
TION QUESTIONS
Lexical interrogative structures do not just code one type of Information
Question. There is a fourfold functional opposition among lexical interrogative
structures, cutting across the categories of Information Questions and Con-
firmation Questions, and subcategorising them. The functional reference is
determined by context of situation and is manifested by prosodic patterns of
accent and intonation. The function-form system is organised as follows:
(a) Information Question with the propositional relation ‘<SemComX>: in
proposition’ and lexical interrogative structure, which may be reduced to
the interrogative word
The QUESTION APPEAL 229
230 The Appeal Function
(a1) asking about a propositional constituent that is missing from the preceding
interchange
The lexical interrogative is in structure-initial position and there are
accents on constituents that are to be foregrounded, with either a peak
or a low-rising valley pattern at the last accent, depending on whether
the sender just enquires about facts or requests them (see 4.2.2.3). The
interrogative word may be accented in addition to other accents; in elliptic
form, it receives accent and intonation patterns.
(a2) asking for more detail of a propositional constituent that has already been
provided
The lexical interrogative is in the appropriate slot of declarative syntax,
which receives the last default accent in the utterance, and, like (a1), is
combined with either a peak or a low-rising valley. In the case of an elliptic
interrogative, (a2) is distinguished from (a1) by context of situation, and
(b2) from (a2) by a high-rising valley in addition to context of situation.
(b) Confirmation Question with the propositional relation
‘<CSemComX>: in proposition’ and lexical interrogative structure,
which may be reduced to the interrogative word, eliminating the formal
distinction between (b1) and (b2)
It stimulates repetition and conﬁrmation of a propositional constituent
when the sender wants to make sure that s/he has perceived the message
correctly, for example in poor transmission, or when the sender cannot
believe what s/he has heard or understood.
Figure 4.4. Speech waves, F0 traces (log scale), word segmentations and
pitch classiﬁcations in the English Information Questions ‘Where?’ IQ-1
Speaker Orientation a Openness b Contrast; IQ-2 Listener Orientation
b Response Request, Expressive c Response Stimulation. Standard Southern
British English, female speaker (RMB).
(b1) with initial-lexical interrogative structure
The lexical interrogative gets a single focus accent, and high-rising
intonation starting there, either as an early valley for Matter-of-
fact (CQ-1), or as a late valley for Expressive (CQ-2), Response
Stimulation (see below).
(b2) with internal-lexical interrogative structure, picking up a previous theme
for the receiver to provide the conﬁrmation rheme.
The interrogative has a single focus accent with a high-rising valley as
for (b1).
The following two sets of dialogues between a wife and a husband illustrate
the association of lexical interrogative structure with Information Ques-
tions and Confirmation Questions, respectively, and another two sub-
categorisations within each. The two sets differ in that in (I) the wife does
not specify the length of time her mother wants to stay, but does so in (II),
and the husband asks for information to be expanded upon or conﬁrmed,
respectively.
(I) Wife: &2Mutti hat angerufen, sie will uns wieder &2besuchen.
&2Mother phoned, she wants to &2visit us again.
INFORMATION QUESTIONS
(Ia1) Husband: IQ-1b &2^Wie lange will sie &1. &2^diesmal &0. &2^bleiben &2. &PG
&2^How long will she &1. &2^stay &0. &2^this time &2. &PG
IQ-2b &2^Wie lange will sie &1. &2^diesmal &1. &2[bleiben &, &PG
&2^How long will she &1. &2^stay &1. &2[this time &, &PG
(Ia2) IQ-1b Sie will &1^diesmal &1. &2^wie lange &1. &1^bleiben &2. &PG
She will &1^stay &1. &2^how long &1. &1^this time &2. &PG
IQ-2b Sie will &1^diesmal &1. &2^wie lange &1. &1[bleiben &, &PG
She will &1^stay &1. &2^how long &1. &1[this time &, &PG
(II) Wife: &2Mutti hat angerufen, sie will uns wieder &2^besuchen,
&2diesmal für &2zwei &2Wochen.
&2Mother phoned, she wants to &2visit us again, &2this time for
&2two &2weeks.
CONFIRMATION QUESTIONS
(IIb1)Husband: CQ-1 &2]Wie lange will sie diesmal bleiben &? &PG
&2]How long does she want to stay this time &? &PG
CQ-2 &2[Wie lange will sie diesmal bleiben &? &PG
&2[How long does she want to stay for this time &? &PG
(IIb2) CQ-1 Sie will diesmal &2]wie lange bleiben &? &PG
She wants to stay &2]how long this time &? &PG
CQ-2 Sie will diesmal &2[wie lange bleiben &? &PG
She wants to stay &2[how long this time &? &PG
The QUESTION APPEAL 231
232 The Appeal Function
In dialogue (I), the husband simply enquires as to how long his mother-in-
law wants to stay. In (a2), as against (a1), he picks up the theme of ‘Mother
wanting to come and stay again’, and focuses the precise length in the ques-
tion rheme. In dialogue (II), he is taken aback by the extended length men-
tioned by his wife, compared with previous occasions, and hesitates to believe
what he has understood her to say. Therefore, he stimulates a conﬁrmation
response.
If he wants to add Expressive personal concern over having his mother-in-
law around the house for an extended period because her previous, shorter
visits were already taxing, he uses a late valley and may add Negative In-
tensification (see 5.1.2). In version (b2), ‘Mother wants to visit us again’
is taken up as the theme of the question. Instead of commenting on it, the
husband questions the expected length of the stay in an internal rheme with a
high-rising valley from the rheme accent to the end of the question.
(2) Declarative Structure in STATEMENT versus CONFIRMATION QUESTION
Declarative form is to be distinguished from the functions of Statement
and Confirmation Question, which state the truth value of a proposition,
or stimulate a receiver to conﬁrm it. In German and English, there is a four-
fold opposition among declarative structures, cutting across the functions of
Statement and Confirmation Question, and subcategorising them. The
functional reference is determined by context of situation and manifested by
prosodic patterns of accent and intonation. The function-form system is organ-
ised as follows:
(a) Statement in declarative or non-sentential (‘elliptic’) syntax
It is a proposition about <Actions>, <Events> and <States> in the
world of objects and relations. In its non-sentential form, for example
in answer to an Information Question, individual propositional
constituents are selected.
(a1) In speaker- and fact-oriented ARGUMENTATION (FactOri)
It states a general truth, such as ‘two times two is four’, or a scientiﬁc or
historical fact, such as ‘Bernoulli’s principle is the basis of vocal cord
vibration’, or ‘The Roman Emperor Hadrianus built Hadrian’s Wall
to protect the northern limit of Britannia’, or it makes a proposition in
a communicative situation, such as answering a Question asked by
another communicator, or stating facts, also following social rituals in
phatic communion (Malinowski 1923). The exponents are accents on
propositional constituents that are to be foregrounded, and peak patterns
at accents, at least at the last one.
(a2) In listener-oriented ARGUMENTATION (ListOri)
It makes a proposition, called for in a communicative situation, such as
answering a Question asked by another communicator. This is achieved
with accents on constituents that are to be foregrounded, and with a low-
rising valley pattern at the last accent to express a subdued attitude towards
the receiver. On the other hand, high pitch is used to stimulate the receiver
to pay attention to the facts and accept them. High pitch is manifested as a
high-rising valley pattern at the last accent to express Surprise (StimSur),
or as a falling pattern in high register to express Irritation (StimIrr).
(b) Confirmation Question with the propositional relation ‘<CTruthX>:
proposition’ in declarative or elliptic syntax
It is an appeal to the dialogue partner for conﬁrmation: it picks up a
proposition from a preceding Statement, or deduces it from the common
ground in the speaker–listener action ﬁeld, and stimulates the dialogue
partner to conﬁrm its truth value.
(b1) asking for conﬁrmation of the truth value
With a high-rising valley pattern at the last accent and early
synchronisation the speaker makes a Matter-of-Fact enquiry, but
expresses Surprise with late synchronisation.
(b2) expecting conﬁrmation of the truth value
With a peak pattern in high register, the speaker expresses Surprise on a
scale from listener-directed Confirmation Question to speaker-centred
Exclamation; a response is optional. Depending on the dialogue context,
Question or Exclamation may be more prominent. To strengthen
the Question function the speaker may use interrogative, instead of
declarative, syntax with a peak pattern in high register
The following two sets of dialogue turns illustrate the association of declar-
ative structure with Statements and Confirmation Questions, respec-
tively, and further subcategorisations within each. The two sets differ in that,
in turn (I), Speaker B answers Speaker A’s question in a number of possible
distinctive ways, but, in turn (II), Speaker A asks for conﬁrmation of Speaker
B’s answer to Speaker A’s initial question.
A/1: Wo &2ist er denn eigentlich?
Where &2is he, I wonder?
(I) B: STATEMENT
(Ia1) FACTORI (Er ist) in &2^Rom &2. &PG
(He is) in &2^Rome &2. &PG
LISTORI (Er ist) in &2]/[Rom &, &PG
(He is) in &2]/[Rome &, &PG
The QUESTION APPEAL 233
234 The Appeal Function
In turn (Ia1), Speaker B provides the <Place> information fact-oriented
with a peak pattern (FactOri); or listener-oriented with low-rising valley pat-
terns (ListOri), either early to express a casual, or late to express a friendly,
attitude towards the listener.
In turn (Ia2), Speaker B gives the <Place> information in a stimulating
listener-oriented way with high pitch. This high pitch stimulates attention and
introduces the expression of Surprise or Irritation at Speaker A asking or
not knowing. It is a late high-rising valley pattern at the last accent to express
Surprise (StimSur), e.g. to remind Speaker A: ‘Have you forgotten that
he told us some time ago?’ Or the whole utterance, with a peak pattern at the
last accent, is in high register to express Irritation (StimIrr), e.g. telling
Speaker A pointedly: ‘Everybody knows that and so should you!’
In turn (IIb1), Speaker A signals being open to receiving conﬁrmation or
correction (CQ-2.1), but, in turn (IIb2), conﬁrmation is taken for granted (CQ-
2.2), if it is solicited at all in an Exclamation (see 4.2.2.5). StimSur in turn
(I) of Speaker B and CQ-2.1b in turn (II) of Speaker A coalesce phonetically
(see 4.2.2.5).
(3) The System of CONFIRMATION QUESTIONS
After delimiting the Question Appeal function of the Confirmation
Question in its own right, against the functions of Information Question
and Statement, we can now draw up its systemic organisation, and illustrate
some of its categories with displays of signal data from German and English.
With a Confirmation Question, a speaker picks up the verbalised or de-
duced theme of a preceding interaction and stimulates the dialogue partner to
(Ia2) STIMSUR (Er ist) in &2[Rom &? &PG
(He is) in &2[Rome &? &PG
STIMIRR &HR (Er ist) in &2^Rom &2. &PG
&HR (He is) in &2^Rome &2. &PG
(II) A/2: CONFIRMATION QUESTION
(IIb1) CQ-2.1a (Er ist) in &2]Rom &? &PG
(He is) in &2]Rome &? &PG
CQ-2.1b (Er ist) in &2[Rom &? &PG
(He is) in &2[Rome &? &PG
(IIb2) CQ-2.2c &HR (Er ist) in &2^Rom &2. &PG
&HR (He is) in &2^Rome &2. &PG
conﬁrm a propositional constituent in it or its truth value. There are various
subtypes, which form the following system:
Confirmation Questions CQ-1 have already been introduced in the dis-
cussion of IQ-2(.2)c in 4.2.2.3(2), with reference to German ‘Wo?’ in Figure 4.3
and to English ‘Where?’ in Figure 4.4. Figure 4.5 displays additional data for
German and English, contrasting Matter-of-Fact and Expression of Sur-
prise in CQ-1a and CQ-1b.
CQ-1a lexical interrogative structure and high-rising valley pattern, starting on
the interrogative word with early synchronisation for Matter-of-Fact
Stimulation
&2]Wo &? &PG
&2]Where &? &PG
CQ-1b late synchronisation adds the Expression of Surprise; it may be further
heightened by pressed phonation, increased duration, increased F0 rise and
increased energy for Negative Intensification (NI – see 5.1.2)
(&NI) &2[Wo &? &PG
(&NI) &2[Where &? &PG
Confirmation Questions CQ-2 in German and English are illustrated
by the following dialogue (adapted from the one discussed in 4.2.2.4(2), and
displayed in Figure 4.6:
(I) B: Er ist nach &2Rom gefahren.
He has gone to &2Rome.
(II) A/2: Er ist in &2Rom? / Nach &2Rom?
He is in &2Rome? / To &2Rome?
CQ-2(.1)a declarative or elliptic syntax and a high-rising valley pattern with early
synchronisation on the last accent, asking for conﬁrmation of a queried truth
value and soliciting an answer
Er ist in &2]Rom &? &PG Nach &2]Rom &? &PG
He is in &2]Rome &? &PG To &2]Rome &? &PG
CQ-2(.1)b late synchronisation for the additional Expression of Surprise; it may be
further heightened for Negative Intensification (NI, see 5.1.2)
CQ-1 STIMULATING CONFIRMATION OF PROPOSITIONAL CONSTITUENT
CQ-1a MATTER-OF-FACT
CQ-1b EXPRESSION OF SURPRISE
CQ-2 STIMULATING CONFIRMATION OF TRUTH VALUE
CQ-2.1 CONFIRMATION OPEN
CQ-2(.1)a MATTER-OF-FACT
CQ-2(.1)b EXPRESSION OF SURPRISE
CQ-2(.2)c CONFIRMATION EXPECTED
The QUESTION APPEAL 235
236 The Appeal Function
Figure 4.5. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale), word segmentations and
pitch classiﬁcations of German ‘Wo?’ (upper panel, Standard German, male
speaker (KJK)) and English ‘Where?’ (lower panel, Standard Southern
British English, female speaker (RMB)) in Confirmation Questions CQ-1a
and NI_CQ-1a.
(&NI) Er ist in &2[Rom &? &PG (&NI) Nach &2[Rom &? &PG
(&NI) He is in &2[Rome &? &PG (&NI) To &2[Rome &? &PG
CQ-2(.2)c peak pattern in high register: the high register signals the question, and the
peak pattern in declarative syntax points to the expected conﬁrmation; the
formal devices signal that conﬁrmation of the truth value of what was said
previously is taken for granted, and that an answer is optional
&HR Er ist in &2^Rom &2. &PG &HR Nach &2^Rom &2. &. &PG
&HR He is in &2^Rome &2. &PG &HR To &2^Rome &2. &. &PG
Figure 4.6. Spectrograms, F0 traces (log scale) and segmental
transcriptions, grouped into prehead and nucleus of German ‘Er ist in
Rom?’ (upper panel, Standard German, male speaker (KJK)) and English
‘He is in Rome?’ (lower panel, Standard Southern British English, female
speaker (RMB)) in Confirmation Questions CQ-2a, CQ-2b, NI_ CQ-
2b and CQ-2c.
The QUESTION APPEAL 237
238 The Appeal Function
4.2.2.5 Communicative Function and Linguistic Form in Context
of Situation
It can be concluded from the preceding discussion of German and English data
that the communicative functions of Polarity, Information and Confir-
mation Questions, and of Statement and Exclamation are categories of
speech interaction that are manifested by overlapping syntactic structures and
prosodic patterns. This, in turn, means that the interaction context contributes
to the interpretation of an occurring linguistic form as the exponent of a par-
ticular function.
In the dialogue of 4.2.2.4(2), utterances StimSur of Speaker B in turn (I)
and CQ-2.1b of Speaker A in turn (II) coalesce phonetically, but the former
is a Statement in the context after a Question, the latter a Confirmation
Question in the context after a Statement. The same applies to utterances
StimIrr of Speaker B in turn (I) and CQ-2.2 of Speaker A in turn (II). When
a dialogue is opened by a Statement such as
Ich hab heute &2^Post von &2^Peter bekommen &2. &PG er ist in &2^Rom &2. &PG
I’ve received a &2^letter from &2^Peter today &2. &PG he’s in &2^Rome &2. &PG
the response in the form of CQ-2.2c is more likely to be intended and inter-
preted as a Surprise Exclamation. However, when declarative structure in
high-register CQ-2.2c is replaced by high-register interrogative word order
the questioning function is strengthened, signalling a Surprise Confirma-
tion Question. This applies even more when Speaker A asks back in this
form after the original question A/1.
Since CQ-2 Confirmation Questions take up a dialogue partner’s
Statement as a whole and enquire about its truth value, ‘He is in Rome?’
would only follow the Statement ‘He has gone to Italy’ if the speaker as-
sumes high probability or even certainty that the person would be in Rome
when in Italy. If the speaker wants to get the truth value of more speciﬁc
<Place> information, s/he asks a Polarity Question ‘Is he in Rome?’,
e.g. PQ-1b, PQ-1c. Contrariwise, since the Listener-Oriented Polarity
Question PQ-2c stimulates a yes-no decision, it is unlikely to be used when
the answer is already in a dialogue partner’s previous assertion. So, ‘Is he in
Rome?’ with an early high-rising valley may not be expected to follow ‘He
has gone to Rome.’
But a late high-rising valley is quite possible in this context for the Expres-
sion of Surprise, also with Negative Intensification. This is a Sur-
prise Confirmation Question in the same form as a Polarity Question
PQ-2d. It differs functionally from a late high-rising valley with declarative
syntax CQ-2(.1)b by strengthening the Question function, whereas the latter
strengthens the Exclamation function. Interrogative syntax can also occur in
the same context with a peak pattern in high register, asking for Confirma-
tion of ‘Are you really saying he is in Rome?’ (see CQ-2.2c above). A late
peak pattern with neutral register in this context is a Polarity Question
PQ-1d, in which Speaker A constructs a new proposition ‘he is elsewhere’ and
enquires about the truth value of Speaker B’s proposition with Unexpected-
ness and Contrast to the new one.
The strengthening of high pitch by raised register in peak patterns or by
high-rising F0 in valley patterns is crucial for signalling Confirmation
Questions. If ‘He is in Rome’ has a peak pattern in a non-high register it can
no longer be a Confirmation Question and therefore is unlikely to follow
a dialogue partner’s Statement ‘He has gone to Rome’, because restating
what has already been stated by a dialogue partner is no longer listener-ori-
ented but self-reﬂecting, and is usually reinforced by some such introduction
as ‘Aha’, ‘I see’. In English, the Confirmation function may be taken up
again by a constant-polarity question tag with a low rise on the tag after a
fall on the declarative ‘He is in Rome, is he?’ (see 4.2.2.6). Similarly, ‘He is
in Rome’ with an early or late low-rising valley pattern is a Statement with
listener orientation and does not become a Confirmation Question, and
so is excluded from the Statement context ‘He has gone to Rome’, unless
a constant-polarity question tag follows (‘He is in Rome, is he?’), continuing
the rise of the declarative (see 4.2.2.6). Both types of question tag add an Ap-
peal to conﬁrm the Statement that the speaker picked up from the dialogue
partner.
The use of the same prosodic forms for different functions – Question and
Statement, Question and Exclamation – in different verbal and situa-
tional contexts, and the exclusion of interrogative forms that violate function in
communicative interaction, show that Question, Statement and Exclama-
tion cannot be deﬁned by form but need to be referred to functional-semantic
categories, which, together with the communicative setting of Representa-
tion, Appeal and Expression, determine their phonetic (prosodic and seg-
mental) as well as gestural exponency. Bolinger (1978, p. 503f) highlights this
function-form relationship and situation dependency:
It is not by any means certain that ‘question’ is a grammatical category at all
to the extent that it is marked only by intonation. And if it is not, then we need
to ask what the intonations mean, independently of any grammatical type. An
utterance such as
The QUESTION APPEAL 239
240 The Appeal Function
can be a question, a statement, or an exclamation, depending on context and
gesture. But the intonation is just as conclusive one way or another. As a
question the sentence is incurious, it probably calls for conﬁrmation of what
is already assumed. With fuller descriptions, we may ﬁnd the same variety
prevailing everywhere. (Cf. also Bolinger (1989), chapter 5, questions, 6.
Nonquestions.)
In this communicative function-form frame, Question and Statement
are deﬁned as semantic propositions in the speaker–listener interaction. They
are either made as propositions about objects and factual relations in State-
ments, or their truth value or a propositional component is enquired about in
Questions. In the case of a Question, the speaker may either make a new
proposition or refer to one already introduced as valid in the communicative
interaction, asking for conﬁrmation. The former is a Polarity or an Infor-
mation Question, the latter a Confirmation Question. Instead of refer-
ring to a proposition made by a communicative partner in the interaction, the
speaker may refer to a presupposition of common ground for both speaker and
listener. For example, in a long discussion on prosodic matters between Speak-
ers A and B, A may feel like having a break: he looks at his watch, realises that
it is coffee time, and assumes that B feels the same way and also knows that it
is coffee time. A may then ask the Confirmation Question, ‘We’ll have a
coffee break now (, shall we)?’ [Wir machen jetzt ’ne Kaffeepause (,ja)?] with
a high-rising early valley. Or, B looks at his watch, and A interprets it as B
wanting a break and so, assuming that they both know it is coffee time, asks
the same Confirmation Question. On the other hand, when A is paying no
attention to common ground and feels concentration is ﬂagging, s/he may set a
new proposition by asking the Polarity Question, ‘Shall we have a coffee
break?’ [Machen wir mal ’ne Kaffeepause?] with either a high-rising early
valley for an open decision, or with a medial peak expecting agreement.
This shows that a Confirmation Question is not just triggered by the
availability of a proposition made by another person or implied in the common
ground of the communicative situation, but also by the speaker’s decision to
pick it up and have it conﬁrmed. There is the possibility of the speaker just
using the proposition as a trigger not to have it conﬁrmed but to enquire about
its independent truth value. Thus, the speaker may ask a Polarity Question
in a situation that looks like a Confirmation Question context when the
speaker’s decision-taking is excluded. The speaker is free to passively refer
to observed signals in common ground for a communicative act, or to actively
construct a new proposition, i.e. to ask either a Confirmation Question (‘Is
that so? Please conﬁrm’) or a Polarity Question (‘Is that so? Think about
it again!’) in the same context of situation. The latter is dissociated from the
other person’s action and may therefore be regarded as less polite. So it may be
inappropriate because the speaker either accidentally or deliberately infringes
a social code. This view takes degrees of freedom in interaction into account
for the shaping of linguistic form by communicative function.
A nice example illustrating the speaker’s passive or active role in the two
types of question comes from Wes Anderson’s ﬁlm The Grand Budapest Ho-
tel. In a breakfast-table scene between Madame D., one of the elderly, female,
very rich and upper-class but insecure clientele, and M. Gustave, the hotel’s
concierge, the original English screenplay gives the following dialogue:
M. Gustave: Dear God. What’ve you done to your ﬁngernails?
This diabolical varnish. The color’s completely wrong.
Madame D: Really? You don’t like it?
The two successive Confirmation Questions are realised as ‘You really
don’t like it?’ with high-register falling intonation by English actress Tilda
Swinton in the original English version, accompanied by her examining her
hands. The English sound version on DVD is also supplied with English sub-
titles, which render the question as ‘Don’t you like it?’ It would have to be
sounded either as falling pitch in high register or as high-rising pitch to ﬁt the
situation. It is no longer a passive Confirmation but an active Polarity
Question, which is out of keeping with the subdued-dominant relationship
that the ﬁlm wants to depict between the woman and the man.
Freedom of interrogative form selection is exempliﬁed by the following dia-
logue interchanges in English and German (cf. the data collection of Mandarin
Chinese in 6.1.2):
A: He &1^wants to go to the &1. &2^beach &2. &PG
Er &1^will zum &1. &2^Strand &2. &PG
B/1: He &1^wants to go to the &1. &2]beach &? &PG
Er &1^will zum &1. &2]Strand &2? &PG
continued with B/2a: (Does) &2^not (want to go) to the &2. &2]zoo &? &PG
(Will) &2^nicht zum &2. &2] Zoo &? &PG
or followed by B/2b: &2^Doesn’t he want to go the &1. &2(zoo &2. &PG
&2^Will er nicht zum &1. &2(Zoo &2. &PG
The two declarative forms with high-rising early valley in B/1 and B/2a
combine to one Confirmation Question, querying A’s proposition and
The QUESTION APPEAL 241
242 The Appeal Function
asking to conﬁrm its negation. But when interrogative B/2b follows declara-
tive B/1, there are two utterances. The ﬁrst is an exclamatory Surprise Con-
firmation Question referring to A’s proposition; the second changes this
proposition to B’s own new one ‘He wants to go to the zoo’ and, in a late peak
pattern, asks about its truth value with Unexpectedness of, and Contrast
to, A’s proposition. So it is a Polarity Question. B/1 and B/2a most prob-
ably follow each other without a pause, or with just a short one, whereas some
pausing is highly likely between B/1 and B/2b.
After A’s Statement, the interrogative form
B/1' Does he &2^want to go to the &1. &2^beach &2. &PG
&2^Will er zum &1. &2^Strand &2. &PG
with accents on both ‘want’ [will] and ‘beach’ [Strand] would be situation-
ally inappropriate because it has just been stated by A ‘He wants to go to the
beach.’ So only the declarative Confirmation Question is possible. But
if B changes A’s proposition from ‘He wants to go to the beach’ to the new
proposition ‘He doesn’t want to go to the beach’, B may enquire about its truth
value in the Polarity Question
B/2c: &2[does he (really) want to go to beach &? &PG
&2[Will er (wirklich) zum Strand &? &PG
with focus accent on the ﬁrst word, and no further accent.
Thus, both Question functions can occur in the same context of situation,
depending on how the speaker constructs the communicative interaction in
this context. In speech communication, speakers mould the interchange by in-
troducing their perspectives at any point, either making a new proposition or
referring to someone else’s proposition or to a presupposition in the speaker–
listener common ground. Reference to propositions and presuppositions in
Confirmation Questions is by default made in the syntactic structure of
Statements, thus expressing what is set as valid. Deviations from declara-
tive to interrogative structure in Confirmation Questions strengthens the
Question over the Exclamation function under Surprise conditions with
speciﬁc prosodic patterns.
It has already been pointed out in 4.2.2.2(1) that elliptic interrogatives are
another formal device to be considered in the discussion of Question func-
tions by leading to the formal coincidence of Polarity with Confirmation
Questions in different situational settings. This may be illustrated by the fol-
lowing two examples from English, which have exact German equivalents:
(I) (a) At a business meeting, an assistant goes round with a coffee jug
asking ‘(Cup of) coffee?’ high rising with early valley. This is a
Polarity Question ellipsis of ‘Would you like a cup of coffee?’
(b) In a café, a customer who has already had a cup of coffee takes
his empty cup to the counter to get a reﬁll. The person behind the
counter, realising that the customer wants another cup of coffee
says ‘Cup of coffee?’ with high-rising early valley. This is now a
Confirmation Question ellipsis of ‘You want a cup of coffee?’
(a) and (b) may be formally identical. However, each will be properly under-
stood as one or the other functionally in their respective situational contexts. In
(b) an alternative is possible – falling pitch in high register, which is excluded
from (a).
(II) A1: ‘It must have been an insider who passed the information on to the
press.’
B: ‘[Could it be] Ronald Smith?’ – late valley high-rising Polarity
Question ellipsis
A2: ‘Ronald Smith?’ – late valley high-rising Surprise Confirmation
Question
The two forms may be identical, but their functions are different and are
decoded as such in the different contexts. Confirmation Question A2 may
also be falling in high register, expecting agreement; this form is impossible in
Polarity Question B.
For successful communication the listener has to take all the syntactic,
lexical, prosodic and gestural forms in their situational setting into account,
since there is no one-to-one correspondence singly between any of these and
communicative functions. Polarity Questions commonly have interroga-
tive syntax, and interrogative syntax commonly codes Polarity Questions;
Confirmation Questions commonly have declarative syntax, and declara-
tive syntax commonly codes Confirmation Questions. But, due to ellipsis,
non-interrogative form can also code Polarity Questions, and in order to
strengthen the Question over the Exclamation function interrogative form
can also code Confirmation Questions. Since, in addition, both question
functions can occur in the same context of situation if speakers construct one
or the other in it, listeners need to globally assess the total formal and situa-
tional embedding to decide which function is communicatively relevant at any
moment, and they generally tune in very acutely.
The QUESTION APPEAL 243
244 The Appeal Function
4.2.2.6 Theme-Rheme Questions: Tag Questions in English and Modal
Particles in German
It was pointed out in the discussion of English Confirmation Questions in
4.2.2.5 that the request of conﬁrmation may be strengthened by the addition of
a constant-polarity question tag in the rising pitch movement of the repeated
assertion: ‘He is in Rome, is he?’ The tag ‘reinforces verbally the questioning
intonation’ (O’Connor 1955, p. 102). Neither a peak pattern on the tag nor a re-
versed polarity of the tag would be possible in this Confirmation Question
context. ‘The [constant-polarity] tag question refers back to a fact already and
recently established by the listener, whereas it is precisely the listener’s view
the reversed tag question seeks to elicit … This difference of background ex-
plains why it is impossible with the [constant-polarity] tag question to have the
pitch pattern of fall plus fall except with a violent disjunction’ (p. 102); ‘a fall-
ing tone would demand agreement from the listener, but demanding agreement
when the listener has already himself presented the information is pragmati-
cally inappropriate’ (Cruttenden 1997, p. 98). The reversed-polarity question
tag ‘He is in Rome, isn’t he?’ does not refer back to a dialogue partner’s prop-
osition; rather, the speaker makes a new one of his/her own, and asks for its
truth value with a tag. This Polarity Question either prejudges agreement,
with falls on both the declarative structure and the tag (O’Connor 1955, p. 98),
or expresses increasing doubt as to the truth value of the declarative, with a
low or high rise on the tag (p. 99), thus leaving the answer open in ‘a normal
conducive question’ (Bolinger 1986, p. 389).
The functions of Questions with declarative syntax + tag differ from those
of the Confirmation Question (‘He is in Rome?’) and of the Polarity
Question (‘Is he in Rome?’) discussed so far, in that they set a proposition in
a Statement Theme and then either ask for conﬁrmation or enquire about the
truth value of the Theme in a Question Rheme. English tag questions are an
ordered formal system of constant versus reversed-polarity syntactic structures
and a set of falling or rising pitch patterns as the exponents of a ﬁne-grained
set of communicative functions in speech interaction. This function-form sys-
tem is particularly characteristic of spontaneous English dialogue in England.
With constant polarity (I), the speaker makes a proposition referring to the re-
ceiver’s previous speech action (the Statement Theme) and asks the receiv-
er for Confirmation (the Question Rheme). This is the Theme-Rheme
Confirmation Question. Its proposition may be of two different kinds,
(a) or (b):
(I) (a) The speaker picks up a preceding proposition from the receiver:
(1) ‘He’s gone to Rome.’
‘He’s in Rome, is he?’ (falling or rising declarative, rising tag)
(b) The speaker deduces a proposition from the receiver’s preceding
actions, including gestures and facial expression:
(2) The receiver looks washed out on returning from jogging.
‘You’ve overdone it again, have you?’(falling or rising declarative,
rising tag)
(3) Father and 10-year-old son are working in the garden. The son picks
up a bag of garden refuse and says ‘Oof.’
Father: ‘It’s heavy, is it?’ (falling or rising declarative, rising tag)
Father did not know that the bag was heavy.
(4) Speaker A: ‘We have not heard anything from Claudia for some
time. I wonder how she’s getting on. We should get in
touch with her.’
Speaker B: ‘I’ll send her an e-mail, shall I?’ (falling or rising
declarative, rising tag)
Speaker B makes a proposition to act in response to Speaker A’s proposition,
either as a categorical Statement with falling intonation or as a receiver-
oriented one with rising intonation. With the constant-polarity question tag,
the proposition becomes a Confirmation Question Appeal: ‘Do you
agree with my proposition?’
With reversed polarity (II), the sender makes a new proposition in a sender-
receiver action ﬁeld and asks for a Polarity Decision. This is the Theme-
Rheme Polarity Question:
(II) (5) ‘He’s gone to Italy.’
‘He’s in Rome, isn’t he?’ (falling declarative, falling tag)
The speaker is certain that the proposition ‘He is in Rome’ is true.
(6) ‘He’s gone to Italy.’
‘He isn’t in Rome, is he?’ (falling declarative, rising tag)
The speaker assumes that the proposition ‘He is not in Rome’ may be
true but is not sure.
(7) The jogger looks worse for wear.
‘You’ve overdone it, haven’t you?’ (falling declarative, falling tag)
The speaker expects the reply ‘Yes, I have.’
(8) Son lifting the bag: ‘Oof.’
Father: ‘It’s heavy, isn’t it?’ (falling declarative, falling tag)
The father knew that the bag was heavy, and he is certain that his
interpretation of his son’s expression is true.
The QUESTION APPEAL 245
246 The Appeal Function
In a Theme-Rheme Question the speaker turns a listener-related proposi-
tional theme into an explicit Statement for truth evaluation in a Question
rheme. Theme-Rheme Questions are integrated, as Enquiring State-
ments, into a system of <Truth> propositions beside Statements, Polar-
ity Questions and Confirmation Questions.
The Polarity Questions ‘Is he in Rome?’ / ‘Have you overdone it again?’
/ ‘Is it heavy?’ / ‘Shall I send her an e-mail?’ have the propositional representa-
tion:
<TruthX>: proposition (p)
He’s in Rome. / You have overdone it again. / It’s heavy. / I shall send her an e-mail.
The speaker solicits a Polarity Decision <TruthX> on the proposition (p).
The Confirmation Questions ‘He’s in Rome?’ / ‘You have overdone
it again?’ / ‘It’s heavy?’ / ‘I shall send her an e-mail?’ (high-rising) have the
propositional representation:
<CTruthX>: proposition (p)
He’s in Rome. / You have overdone it again. / It’s heavy. / I shall send her an e-mail.
The speaker asks for Confirmation <CTruthX> of the proposition (p)
picked up from the receiver. This introduces an element of Statement into
the Question.
The Theme-Rheme Confirmation Questions (1), (2), (3), (4) have the
propositional representation:
proposition (p): <CTruthX>
(1) / (2) / (3) / (4)
The recipient has signalled a proposition (p), which the speaker presents as
a Statement for Confirmation <CTruthX>. The Question function is
weakened further in comparison with the Confirmation Question, result-
ing in an Enquiring Statement.
The Theme-Rheme Polarity Questions(5), (6), (7), (8) have the prop-
ositional representation:
proposition (p): <TruthX>
(5) / (6) / (7) / (8)
The speaker makes a proposition (p) as a Statement Theme and solicits
a Polarity Decision <TruthX> on it in a Question Rheme, expecting
agreement with the truth value of the Statement in the falling-falling pat-
tern, but expressing doubt in the falling-rising pattern. These are Enquiring
Statements. With the falling-falling pattern the Theme-Rheme Polarity
Question comes closest to a Statement.
In German, a very complex system of modal particles with intonation pat-
terns is used to cover some of the functions of English question tags. The
particles establish the link to the preceding dialogue turn and signal the com-
municative transition from Propositional Representation to Question
Appeal derived from it. Without the particles, the utterances are either State-
ments or Confirmation Questions, depending on intonation. The division
into Statement theme and Question rheme is not systematically and se-
quentially organised as it is in English, but it is still there. The modal particles
take over the Question Rheme function. Here are possible equivalents of the
eight English examples discussed above:
(1) ‘Er ist in Rom, ja?’ (falling declarative, rising modal particle)
(2) ‘Du hast dich wohl wieder übernommen (, ja)?’ (falling declarative,
including modal particle (+ rising modal particle))
(3) ‘Der Sack ist schwer, ja?’ (falling declarative, rising modal particle)
‘Ist der Sack etwa schwer?’ (falling or rising interrogative, including
modal particle)
‘The sack is not heavy, is it?’ (falling declarative, rising modal
particle) may be rendered by ‘Der Sack ist doch nicht (etwa) schwer
(,oder)?’ (falling declarative, including modal particles (+ rising
modal particle))
(4) ‘Ich schick ihr dann mal ’ne Email (, ja)?’ (falling or rising
declarative, including modal particles (+ separate or continuing rising
modal particle))
(5) ‘Er ist in Rom, nicht (wahr)?’ (falling declarative, rising modal
particle)
(6) ‘Er ist doch nicht etwa in Rom (, oder)?’ (falling or rising
declarative, including modal particles (+ rising modal particle))
(7) ‘Du hast dich übernommen, nicht (wahr)?’ (falling declarative,
rising modal particle)
(8) ‘Der Sack ist schwer, nicht (wahr)?’ (falling declarative, rising
modal particle)
The correspondences between the systems of English question tags and Ger-
man modal particles are only approximate because the modal particles intro-
duce further interaction aspects that are absent from tag questions. For further
detail, see Kohler (1978).
The QUESTION APPEAL 247
248 The Appeal Function
The account of tag questions given here relates their formal system to their
communicative functions in speech interaction, a perspective that is absent
from a recent corpus analysis (Dehé and Braun 2013). The factors tested in
this study were:
polarity, position in the sentence and the turn as well as verb type. Generally,
prosodic phrasing and intonational realization were highly correlated:
separate QTs were mostly realized with a falling contour, while integrated
QTs were mostly rising. Results from regression models showed a strong
effect of polarity: QTs with an opposite polarity were more often phrased
separately compared to QTs with constant polarity, but the phrasing of
opposite polarity QTs was further dependent on whether the QT was negative
or positive (more separate phrasing in negative QTs). Furthermore, prosodic
separation was more frequent at the end of syntactic phrases and clauses
compared to phrase-medial QTs. At the end of a turn, speakers realized more
rising contours compared to QTs within a speaker’s turn. Verb type also had
an effect on the phrasing of the tag. Taken together, our results conﬁrm some
of the claims previously held for QTs, while others are modiﬁed and new
ﬁndings are added. (Dehé and Braun 2013, p. 129)
It may be of some interest to learn something about the distribution of these
formal patterns in a fairly limited corpus, but they do not tell us anything about
the functional conditions of their occurrence in dialogue interaction, and the
authors do not even cite O’Connor’s (1955) seminal paper on the subject,
which gives all the basics on the strength of acute phonetic and semantic ob-
servation. The 2013 investigation simply follows the mainstream paradigm of
doing linguistic and prosodic corpus research: it is ﬁxed on form and frequency
without semantic anchoring in speech communication.
4.2.2.7 Question Quotes
With a (Theme-Rheme) Confirmation Question a speaker repeats a
proposition or a semantic constituent of a proposition which has been estab-
lished through communicative interaction and wants to have it conﬁrmed. This
differs from another type of interrogativity: the repetition of an immediately
preceding question that was asked either (1) by the same speaker or (2) by an-
other speaker. In (1), the speaker’s own original enquiry is not answered, due
to transmission problems or because of incredulity; the other speaker asks for
repetition instead; in (2), the speaker repeats the other speaker’s original en-
quiry as a theme for a rheme comment. These are Question Quotes, which
pick up any type of Question Appeal – Polarity, Information, Confir-
mation Question – and report its propositional content. They are no longer
Questions, as deﬁned here, because they lack the Appeal function. In (1),
they transmit the content of the original enquiry and may be paraphrased by in-
troducing them with ‘I’m asking …’ or ‘I asked …’. In (2), they set the theme
for a reﬂective or an exclamatory Statement from the speaker; they may be
paraphrased by introducing them with ‘You’re asking …’
In German Question Quotes of both contextual types, a special interrog-
ative form of an indirect question is used, with the inﬂected verb in ﬁnal posi-
tion in subsidiary clause structure that is introduced either by the subordinate
conjunction ‘ob’ to report on a proposition enquiry or by a lexical interroga-
tive in the case of a propositional constituent. These stand-alone interrogative
forms are derived from the syntactic structures introduced by ‘Du fragst / Ich
fragte, ob / wo, wann…’. Since word order is identical in main and subsidiary
clauses in English, Question Quotes cannot have a special interrogative
form in the same way, but fall back on word order or lexical interrogative
syntax, as in Polarity or Information Questions, unless the speaker in-
troduces type (2) with ‘You’re asking … ’. But there are also prosodic features
that can mark Question Quotes in both languages. For a start, stimulating
rising intonation patterns of preceding questions are replaced by fact-oriented
falling ones in the content-reporting repeats in both types (1) and (2) and in
both languages (cf. the discussion of Fries 1964 in 4.2.2.1). This is the formal
exponent that distinguishes a Question Quote from a Question Appeal.
It represents a communicative act that is centred reﬂexively on the speaker:
type (1) is a repetition of what the speaker has said, type (2) sets the theme for
the speaker’s comment. This differs from the listener-directed Appeal. The
listener knows from context that the speaker is repeating question content and
is not sending a Question Appeal.
In type (1), the speaker may want to make sure that the content of the ques-
tion, which was missed, gets across to the dialogue partner the second time:
high register and increased loudness serve this communicative function. In
type (2), on the other hand, the repeat either becomes a reﬂective State-
ment to oneself, spoken in low register and with reduced loudness, because
the speaker is uncertain and verbalises it by adding a phrase such as ‘I have
not decided yet.’ Or the repeat becomes an Exclamation in high register
and with increased loudness, because the speaker is absolutely certain and
expresses it emphatically by adding a phrase such as ‘Of course!’, ‘On no
account!’
The following examples illustrate the use of Question Quotes in German
and English, picking up Polarity, Information or Confirmation Ques-
tions in the situational contexts (1) and (2). Since a Question Quote only
reports content it does not preserve the characteristic communicative reference
The QUESTION APPEAL 249
250 The Appeal Function
of a Confirmation Question to a preceding Statement, for example in
dialogue type (1) B/1-B/2 below:
(1) A telephone conversation between an employee and his boss.
A/1a: Das müssen wir noch eingehend besprechen. Kommen Sie doch
morgen früh um 8 in mein Büro.
We need to discuss this more thoroughly. Would you like to come to
my ofﬁce at 8 tomorrow morning.
A/1b: Das müssen wir noch eingehend besprechen. Kommen Sie doch
morgen früh in mein Büro.
We need to discuss this more thoroughly. Would you like to come to
my ofﬁce tomorrow morning.
B/1a: Polarity Question
&2^Könnte es ein &1. &2^ bisschen &2. &2]später sein &? &PG
&2^Could it be a &1. &2^ little &2. &2]later &? &PG
Confirmation Question
&2[Welche Zeit schlagen Sie vor &? &PG
&2[What time are you suggesting &?&PG
B/1b: Information Question
Welche &2^Zeit schlagen Sie vor &2. &PG
What &2^time are you suggesting &2. &PG
A/2: (noise disturbance)
Polarity Question
&2^Was meinten Sie &., &PG
&2^What did you say &., &PG
B/2: Question Quotes
of B/1a Polarity Question
&HR Ob es ein &2^ bisschen &0. &2^später sein könnte &2. &PG
(I’m &2^asking &1. &PG) &HR Could it be a &2^ little &0.
&2^later &2. &PG
of B/1a Confirmation Question or B/1b Polarity question
&HR welche &2^Zeit Sie vorschlagen &2. &PG
(I’m &2^asking &1. &PG) &HR what &2^time are you suggesting
&2. &PG
(2) A: Polarity Question
Machst du &2^dieses Jahr wieder &1. &2^Urlaub in &1.
&2^It'alien &2. &PG
Will you be spending your &2^holiday in &1. &2^Italy again &2.
&1^this year &2. &PG
Information Question
&2^Wo machst du &1. &2^dieses Jahr &1. &2^Urlaub &2. &PG
&2^Where will you be going for your &1. &2^holiday this year
&2. &PG
B: Question Quotes
&LR Ob ich &2^dieses Jahr wieder &0. &2-Urlaub in &0.
&2^It'alien mache &2. &PG Das &2^weiß ich noch nicht &2. &PG
&LR Will I be spending my &2^holiday in &0. &2^Italy again this
year &2. &PG I don’t &2^know yet &2. &PG
&HR Ob ich &2^dieses Jahr wieder &0. &2-Urlaub in &0.
&2^It'alien mache &2. &HR &3^Natürlich &2. &PG / &HR Auf
&3^keinen &0. &2^Fall &2. &PG
&HR Will I be spending my &2^holiday in &0. &2^Italy again
this year &2. &PG &HR Of &3^course I will &2. &PG / &HR
&3^Certainly &0. &2^not &2. &PG
&LR &2^Wo ich &0. &2-dieses Jahr &0. &2^Urlaub mache &2.
&PG Mal &2^sehen &2. &PG
&LR &2^Where will I be going for my &0. &2^holiday this year
&2. &PG We’ll &2^see &2. &PG
&HR &2^Wo ich &0. &2-dieses Jahr &0. &2^Urlaub mache &2.
&PG &HR &3^Keine &0. &2^Ahnung &2. &PG
&LR &2^Where will I be going for my &0. &2^holiday this year
&2. &PG &3^No &0. &2^idea &2. &PG
Speaker B’s long Question Quote ‘Ob …’ and afﬁrmative comment in
(2) may be reduced to the short reinforced afﬁrmative Exclamation ‘Und
&3^ob &2. &PG’. This shows the relationship between type (2) Question
Quotes and Exclamations. Since ‘ob’ repeats are reﬂexively centred on the
speaker, the syntactic structure may also be used for stand-alone deliberative
Statements of the type ‘I wonder if …’. For example:
Ob &2^Helga darüber wohl &1. &2^Besch'eid weiß &2. &PG
I &2^wonder if &1. &2^Helga &0. &2^knows about this &2. &PG
Ob ich &2^diesmal vielleicht &1. &2^mehr Glück habe &2. &PG
I &2^wonder if I’ll have &1. &2^better luck &0. &2^this time &2. &PG
With utterances like these, the speaker does not send an Appeal to a listener
for a verbal response concerning their <Truth> value. Therefore, they are not
Questions, as deﬁned here.
The QUESTION APPEAL 251
252 The Appeal Function
4.3 The Request and Command Appeals
When, instead of soliciting a communicative response to a Question, a speak-
er appeals to a listener to carry out some action, this Appeal varies along a
scale from Request to Command, depending on the speaker’s considerate or
dominant attitude towards the listener. The scale is continuous rather than dis-
crete, ranging from a very polite, subdued Request to a forceful, expressively
heightened Command. The recipient may or may not perform the requested
or ordered action, and may accompany or replace it by a communicative re-
sponse, in an apology for having failed to act, or in a rude refusal to act. Both
Appeals use interrogative, imperative, or even declarative, syntax, with the
addition of positive or negative lexical intensiﬁers, question tags or modal par-
ticles, rising or falling pitch, and modal/breathy-voice or pressed phonation.
Interrogative syntax, rising pitch and breathy-voice phonation are indices of
Request; imperative and declarative syntax, falling pitch, overaccentuation
on every syntactic component or even word and pressed phonation are indi-
ces of Command. The more of the features in each group are bundled in an
utterance, the more the Request or Command Appeal gets strengthened.
High-rising pitch has greater stimulatory force than low-rising pitch in the Re-
quest Appeal, and an early peak as against a medial one strengthens the
Command Appeal. The combination of an imperative with a question tag
in English may have a single rise starting in the imperative phrase, or a fall
ending the imperative phrase and a partially deaccented rise in the question
tag. The single rise is more requesting than the fall + rise (see O’Connor 1955).
The following examples from German and English illustrate the functional
scale and the use of the syntactic, lexical and prosodic means:
Request with decreasing semantic strength
interrogative
Wärst du (bitte) so gut, die &2[Tür zuzumachen &?/, &PG
Wärst du (bitte) so gut, die &2^/)Tür zuzumachen &2. &PG
Would you mind shutting the &2[door (, please) &?/, &PG
Would you mind shutting the &2^/)door (, please) &?/, &PG
Würdest du (bitte) / Könntest/Kannst du (bitte) die &2[Tür zumachen &?/, &PG
Würdest du (bitte) / Könntest/Kannst du (bitte) die &2^/)Tür zumachen &2. &PG
Would/Could/Can you shut the &2[door (please) &?/, &PG
Would Could/Can you shut the &2^/)door (please) &?/, &PG
imperative
Sei so gut und mach die &2[Tür zu &?/, &PG
Sei so gut und mach die &2^/)Tür zu &2. &PG
Be so good and shut the &2[door will you &, &PG
Be so good and shut the &2^/)door &2. &1[will you &, &PG
Mach bitte die &2[Tür zu &?/, &PG
Mach bitte die &2^/)Tür zu &2. &PG
Shut the &2[door please &, &PG
Shut the &2^/)door please &2. &PG
Command with increasing semantic strength
imperative
Mach die &2^/)Tür zu &2. &PG
Shut the &2^/)door &2. &PG
Mach &2^endlich die &0. &2^Tür zu &2. &PG
&2^Do &1. &2^shut that &0. &2^door &2. &PG
interrogative
Machst du &2^endlich die &0. &2^Tür zu &2. &PG
&2^Will you &1. &2^shut that &0. &2^door &2. &PG
Bist du &2^endlich &0. &2^fertig &2. &PG
Are you &2^going to be much &0. &2^longer &2. &PG
imperative with lexical and accentual intensiﬁcation
&2^Mach &1. &2^die &1. &2^Tür &2. &1^zu’&2. &PG
&2^Will &1. &2^you &1. &2^shut &2. &2^that &1. &2^door &2. &PG
&2^verﬂucht noch mal &2. &PG &2^mach die &0. &2^Tür zu &2. &PG
&2^damn it &2. &PG &2^shut the &0. &2^door &2. &PG
declarative with accentual intensiﬁcation
&2^Du &2. &2^machst &2. &2^jetzt die &2. &2^Tür &2. &1^zu &2. &PG
&2^You 2. &2^are 2. &2^going to 2. &2^shut that 2. &2^door 2. &2^now 2.
&PG
On the basis of this preliminary function-form data classiﬁcation, future re-
search can devise experiments to investigate the semantic scaling of Request
and Command in relation to formal bundles of syntax, lexicon and prosody,
using the Semantic Differential Technique, for example.
The REQUEST and COMMAND APPEALS 253
254
5 The EXPRESSION Function
The Expression function was introduced as overlay on the Representation
and Appeal functions in Chapters 3 and 4. This chapter develops it further in
two directions, by introducing the concepts of (1) the speaker’s Expressive
Evaluation of communicative action, graded along a Low-to-High Key
scale, and (2) Speaker Attitudes towards the Listener along a scale from
Authority to Subordination.
Expressive Evaluation is distinguished from Information Weighting
in the Representation function, i.e. the Referential Low-to-High Key
(see 3.2). The upper end of the Expressive Low-to-High Key scale is usually
referred to as ‘emphasis’, with a broad spectrum of different meanings given
to the term, in many cases suggesting a binary opposition ‘emphatic – non-
emphatic’. The scale character may be illustrated with the grading of ‘I do not
know’ from a highly reduced mumbled aside to an insisting proposition with
an accent on each word. The Low Key end is the expression of the speak-
er’s detachment from the communicative situation; the High Key end is the
expressive reinforcement of points of Argumentation referring to the factual
world. This Argumentative High Key for Argumentative Reinforce-
ment differs from the Emotive High Key for Emotive Intensification.
Emotive High Key may be Negative, for example when ‘I do not know’
expresses exasperation at a person’s persistent asking. In addition to overac-
centuation, it has greatly increased overall acoustic energy, as well as pressed
phonation associated with each accent, i.e. tense laryngeal action oscillating
between breathiness, creak and tense voice (see Catford 1964). Emotive High
Key may also be Positive, for example in an exuberantly apologising ‘I don’t
know’ with two accents, on ‘don’t’ and ‘know’, modal voice and expanded as
well as slowly falling pitch spanning the two accents.
Besides being an overlay on the Representation function, Expressive
Evaluation is also typically used as an overlay on the Appeal function, for
Negative Intensification in Commands or in Surprise Confirmation
Questions, and for Positive Intensification in Requests. An exasperated
‘Shut the door!’, with F0 peak accents, increased acoustic energy and pressed
phonation on each word, or an indignant query ‘Where?!’, with considerable
lengthening of a high-rise valley accent and pressed phonation, which starts
tense-breathy and then changes into tense voicing, illustrate the former (cf. 4.3;
4.2.2.4 (3)). An exuberantly polite ‘Would you mind shutting the door, please?’
with modal voice, and time and frequency expansion of a falling-rising pitch
pattern across the utterance, illustrates the latter (cf. 4.3).
The distinction between Information Weighting and Expressive
Evaluation was already recognised by Armstrong and Ward (1931) and
Coustenoble and Armstrong (1934). They differentiated two main categories
of ‘emphasis’: (1) special prominence which a speaker gives to certain words
for rational focus and contrast to what has been said; (2) special prominence
to amplify the meaning of words and to express a particularly great degree
of what they imply. The former was called emphasis for contrast, the latter
emphasis for intensity, picking up a distinction made previously by Coleman
(1914). The difference was illustrated with the example ‘There’s an enormous
improvement.’ Contrasting the word ‘enormous’, for example to a preceding
utterance ‘There was very little improvement’, results in a focus on the word,
with a high pitch fall on the only accented syllable ‘-nor-’. Contrast is scaled
by different ranges of the fall. Intensity on the same word produces an upward
pitch glide with levelling out on ‘-nor-’, followed by a gradual descent on the
subsequent syllables and a nuclear accent on ‘-prove-’; there is also greater
acoustic energy and lengthening of the accented-syllable onset. However, the
two types of ‘emphasis’ do not take the difference between Argumentative
and Emotive High Key, or between Negative and Positive Intensifica-
tion, into account, and the concept of ‘emphasis’ cuts off the low end of a
Low-to-High Key scale altogether. An ‘emphasis’ framework was ﬁrst pre-
sented by Kohler (2006a) , experimentally supported by Kohler and Niebuhr
(2007) and expanded by Niebuhr (2010). The semantically multifarious and
opaque term ‘emphasis’ has now been replaced by a systematic terminology
of Information Weighting and Expressive Evaluation subcategorised
into Argumentative Reinforcement and Emotive Negative or Positive
Intensification for a functional network within the Organon Model.
The functions of Expressive Evaluation are manifested by formal bundles
of graded prosodic features – pitch, acoustic energy, phonation – as well as
graded articulatory space-time trajectories in sequences of opening-closing ges-
tures. A formal scale from reduced to elaborated has already been introduced
as one of the exponents of Information Weighting (see 3.2), but its range is
greatly extended at both ends in Expressive Evaluation. A comprehensive
The EXPRESSION Function 255
256 The EXPRESSION Function
investigation of the prosodic and segmental manifestations in Expressive Low-
to-High Key, even just for German and English, is still waiting to be done. The
following sections focus on representative examples for the different functions
of Expressive Evaluation from these two languages. Section 5.1 deals with
Expressive High Key in Argumentative Reinforcement and in Negative
as well as Positive Intensification; Section 5.2 relates the reduced-elab-
orated articulation scale to the Expressive Low-to-High scale; Section 5.3
proposes some postulates for research into Expressive Evaluation in human
language; Section 5.4 says a few words about Speaker Attitudes towards
the Listener.
5.1 From Neutral to Expressive High Key
High-Key Expressive Evaluation is coded by an array of syntactic, lex-
ical and prosodic means. Argumentative Reinforcement and Emotive
Intensification have some exponents in common, such as repeating words
and increasing the number of &3 accents, but they differ in lexical choice, pho-
nation, intonation and acoustic energy. Some patterns of acoustic energy con-
trol and phonation in the two types of High Key may be universal in human
language, others just characteristic of speciﬁc languages or language groups.
5.1.1 ARGUMENTATIVE HIGH KEY for ARGUMENTATIVE REINFORCEMENT
The simplest device in Argumentative Reinforcement is the repetition
of the word or phrase to be reinforced, with an increased accent level &3 and
peak patterns on each repetition, as in the old VW beetle advert of the 1960s,
‘er läuft und läuft und läuft’. Greater intensiﬁcation uses lexical intensiﬁers
and their repetition, as in ‘very, very good’; ‘it’s absolutely meaningless’, each
with an accent raised to &3; accents are also docked at secondary stresses, as
in &3absol&3utely, or even at unstressed syllables as well, for example in
&3abs&3ol&3utel&3y.
President Clinton’s pronouncement at the famous press conference
I did &3[not &, [pause] &3-have &0. [pause] &3-sexual &0. [pause]
&3-rel'ations with that &0. &2[woman &, [long pause] Miss &2[Lew'in-
sky &, &PG
is another example of Argumentative Reinforcement, highlighting four
essential semantic elements ‘not’, ‘have’, ‘sexual’, ‘rel'ations’ in a defence
against a public accusation. This is achieved by accenting each word, lengthen-
ing and strengthening the stressed syllable-initial consonant, by pausing before
accents and by accompanying the AAA production by downward movements
From NEUTRAL to EXPRESSIVE HIGH KEY 257
of the arm and pointed index ﬁnger, banging the lectern. There is also an ele-
ment of Appeal to the receiving audience, particularly by the attention-trig-
gering pauses before each accent.
Accented swear words may be used as lexical intensiﬁers in Argumenta-
tive Reinforcement of a following accented word. An interesting example
comes from Stephen Fry’s BBC broadcasts Fry’s English Delight (series 6),
where the story is told of two navvies digging a hole in the road around the
time universal suffrage came to Britain, when there were posters everywhere
that read ‘One Man One Vote’. One of the navvies asked the other, ‘What does
that mean?’ – ‘It means one man, one vote.’ – ‘Oh, but what is that supposed
to signify?’ – ‘It signiﬁes one man, one vote.’ – ‘Oh, I am sorry, I don’t under-
stand.’ – ‘It means one fucking man, one fucking vote.’ (pronounced with
increased acoustic energy) – ‘Ah, I see.’ The extreme reinforcement clariﬁed
the syntactic-semantic structure of the phrase.
5.1.2 EMOTIVE HIGH KEY for NEGATIVE or POSITIVE INTENSIFICATION
Accented swear words are commonly used in Negative Intensification: in
English ‘bloody hell!’, ‘what the fuck (WTF) do you think you are doing?’; in
German ‘verﬂuchte Scheiße!’, ‘das ist zum Kotzen!’ In English, they may even
occur before the accented syllable inside a word, as in ‘abso-bloody-lutely’. It
has been pointed out (Francis Nolan, pers. comm.) that for this to sound right
‘one needs a word-internal foot, preferably with more than one syllable, before
the insertion point; so ‘over-fucking-conﬁdent’ is better than ‘un-fucking-
conﬁdent’. ‘Macna-fucking-mara’ is a good Irish surname, but ‘Mc-fucking-
Kenzie’ is a bad Scottish one. This would certainly apply to the word citation
forms, but this kind of swear-word intensiﬁcation occurs in utterance context,
and across word boundaries the rhythmic foot structure would be perfectly
regular in ‘Macnamara might be quite a good choice for the job but &3not
Mc-&3fucking-&3Kenzie!’ When the names are swapped, a remiss syllable
needs to be inserted to maintain a good trochee pattern: ‘McKenzie might be
quite a good choice for the job but &3not that &3Macna-&3fucking-&3mara!’
The same patterning is shown by the example of the British Army ser-
geant-major saying to the private who wants to get leave over the weekend to
see his girlfriend:
All right. But remember, sonny, you’ll be back by 8 on Monday morning, and
&3don’t for-&3fucking-&3get.
This was reported as a genuine incident in the discussion after a talk on ‘What
is a word?’ given by Charles Bazell in the joint phonetics-linguistics seminar
258 The EXPRESSION Function
at Edinburgh University in the early 1960s. It exempliﬁes Negative Inten-
sification superimposed on an Appeal, which is signalled by inserting the
swear word before the accented syllable inside the essential message element
‘forget’, and the whole command gets raised in acoustic energy and may have
been accompanied by a clenched ﬁst hammering in the Appeal. There may
also have been a change to pressed phonation, accompanied by a furrowed
brow.
Swear words are also selected for intensiﬁcation according to their phonetic
energy (Hughes 1998). ‘Swive’ existed beside ‘fuck’ in Chaucer’s time, with
the same original sexual meaning, but did not make it to the swear-word level,
no doubt because it is phonetically much softer, with its mostly voiced, sono-
rous articulation in the front of the mouth and with a long syllable nucleus. It
is therefore less aggressive-sounding than ‘fuck’ with its short back vowel,
its back plosive and its voiceless, asonorous consonants initially and ﬁnally.
The Irish generally use ‘feck(ing)’ as a swear word, and revert to ‘fuck(ing)’
for greater intensiﬁcation and aggressiveness, exchanging the back vowel for
the front one. In addition to choosing swear words that support Negative
Intensification by their asonorous and posterior vocal-tract properties, the
negativity is further intensiﬁed by lengthening and strengthening asonorous
onsets of accented syllables, by pressed phonation and by increased overall
acoustic energy.
These prosodic features are also applied to accented words outside the swear-
word class for Negative Intensification. An example is Edith Evans’s
rendering of Lady Bracknell’s question ‘A handbag?!’ in Oscar Wilde’s The
Importance of Being Earnest. It is the Emotive High-Key Expression of
indignation and horror at a socially unacceptable origin, applying extreme
lengthening, including a strengthened initial [h], and powerful pressed pho-
nation, which starts with strong breathiness and then changes to high-rising
tense voice. It also contains a High-Key Appeal: the high pitch stimulates the
addressee to provide a satisfactory answer to resolve the speaker’s incredulity
(cf. Kohler 2011a for graphic signal displays and further discussion). The same
Negative Intensification could be expressed with the same prosodic fea-
tures in the corresponding German utterance ‘In einer Handtasche?!’
The imperative structure ‘Shut the door!’, with accents on ‘shut’ and ‘door’
and a pitch fall on the latter, is a neutral Appeal to act. The command gets
expressively intensiﬁed by increased loudness and pitch range, and addition-
ally by accentuating ‘the’. It may be further heightened by lexical insertion
‘b-door’ or even stronger ‘bloody door’. With pressed phonation the expres-
sion is one of exasperation.
On the other hand, the Command may be softened to a Request by adding
‘will you’ and/or ‘please’ on rising pitch to the neutral Appeal form. The
request nature of the Appeal is increased by starting the pitch rise on ‘door’
and expanding the pitch range of the whole utterance. The request is strength-
ened further when imperative structure is replaced by interrogative syntax,
‘Would you shut the door, please’, or even ‘Would you mind shutting the
door, please’, in both cases with rising pitch starting on ‘door’ and expanded
pitch range. If this is combined with modal voice, the speaker makes a polite
but ﬁrm Appeal to act, a signal of social stature. However, if it is combined
with breathy-voice phonation, the sender signals submission to the receiver
for compliance. This example illustrates the ﬁne gradation of Emotive High
Key in the Appeal function, from Neutral to either Negative or Positive
Intensification along the semantic functions of Command or Request and
Aggressive or Polite, signalled by varying bundles of prosodic properties
and linguistic structures. These function-form relations also apply to German
(see 4.3 for further details).
Typical examples of Negative or Positive Intensification occur in
exclamatory utterances. They combine negative or positive lexical semantics
with prosodic features that function as exponents of Negative or Positive
Emotive High Key in peak patterns:
• negative prosody
time-energy strengthening of accented-syllable onset asonority at
the expense of nucleus sonority, pressed phonation, fast-falling F0
contours, increased overall acoustic energy
• positive prosody
time-energy strengthening of accented-syllable nucleus sonority,
modal or breathy-voice phonation, expanded plateau-like and slowly
falling F0 contours.
Instances of Negative Intensification from English and German are listed
in (a), corresponding to instances of Positive Intensification in (c) (cf.
Kohler 2006a, 2009b; Kohler and Niebuhr 2007; Niebuhr 2010):
(a) It stinks. Das stinkt.
It’s disgusting. Das ist widerlich.
It’s terrible. Das ist schrecklich.
He’s an absolute bastard. Er ist ein absolutes Schwein.
(b) You did that beautifully. Das hast du toll gemacht.
From NEUTRAL to EXPRESSIVE HIGH KEY 259
260 The EXPRESSION Function
(c) It smells. Das riecht.
It’s delicious. Das ist köstlich.
It’s lovely. Das ist reizend.
She’s a gem. Sie ist eine Perle.
You did that beautifully. Das hast du toll gemacht.
(d) It stinks. Das stinkt.
The initial English lenis stops in (a) lose their voice completely and have
strong releases; the initial labiodental fricative in German ‘widerlich’ has
increased devoiced fricative noise. In (b) positive lexical semantics is com-
bined with negative prosodic intensiﬁcation properties. This semantic pos-
itive-negative clash between the two levels results in sarcasm: the negative
prosodic meaning overrides the positive lexical meaning. The examples in
(d) have negative lexical semantics together with positive prosodic intensi-
ﬁcation properties. The semantic clash between the two levels may signal
irony, or it may be a cheese-lover’s appreciation of ‘a deliciously smelly
Münster’. In either case, positive prosodic meaning overrides negative lex-
ical meaning. Furthermore, in these examples Negative Intensification
may be accompanied by a furrowed brow, head-lowering and possibly a
clenched ﬁst, Positive Intensification by raising eyebrows, head and
possibly arms and hands.
In exclamatory utterances, F0 peak contours may be compressed into a
low F0 range, as against the expanded F0 falls typically found in aggressive
commands. The prosodic exponents depend on social codes. If it is frowned
upon to show one’s Negative Emotive Expression or to be loud in pub-
lic, as it is in English middle-class society, F0 falls and acoustic energy
are compressed. On the other hand, F0 expansion for Positive Emotive
Expression, especially in female voices, is quite acceptable. Armstrong and
Ward mention the lowering and narrowing of the whole range of intonation
in ‘emphasis for intensity’ (Armstrong and Ward 1931, p. 46). They do not
distinguish between Positive and Negative Intensification, but most of
the examples they quote for this narrowing deﬁnitely refer to the latter: ‘It’s
perfectly absurd’; ‘He won’t listen to reason’; ‘I won’t stand it any longer’;
‘What in the name of fortune are you doing?’ The example ‘How very ingen-
ious’ may be ironic.
The examples in (a)–(d), although in declarative sentence mode, have only
rudimentary referential meaning. They are predominantly expressive and as
such are one form of Exclamations, which may also be given negative-
polarity interrogative syntax without becoming Question Appeals, as in:
Isn’t it terrible! Ist das nicht furchtbar!
Isn’t it wonderful! Ist das nicht wunderbar!
In their simplest form, Exclamations are non-sentential utterances that
serve only the Expression function. Speakers may mutter ‘Oh, my God!’
or ‘Oh, mein Gott!’ under their breath in English or German, or they may
intensify the Exclamation with accents on each word, pressed phonation
and considerable lengthening in Negative Emotive High Key, which
may be further strengthened lexically in English ‘Damn it all!’ or in German
‘Verﬂucht noch mal!’ On the other hand, there is Positive Emotive High
Key in exuberant exclamations like ‘Wonderful!’, ‘How that smells!’, or
German ‘Wunderbar!’, ‘Wie das riecht!’, with modal voice and expanded
as well as slowly falling pitch across the utterance. Negative and Posi-
tive Intensification in Exclamations are short-time expressions of the
emotions Anger and Joy.
5.2 Reduced-to-Elaborated Articulation in Low-to-High
Expressive Key
In the realisation of the English utterance ‘I do not know’, a wide spectrum
of accentuation, intonation, acoustic energy, phonation and articulation con-
verge to convey speciﬁc meanings beyond the propositional meaning of lack
of knowledge (Hawkins 2003). The weakly contracted form [aɪ dəʊn
̰ nˈəʊ],
with a medial F0 peak contour as well as an energy peak in the only accented
syllable ‘know’, provides the listener with new, neutral information that
the speaker cannot give the requested answer. More strongly elaborated or
reduced forms add expressive and attitudinal connotations.
Prosody and articulation can be elaborated together in several degrees
to insist on ‘not knowing’. The number of accents and the F0 range are
increased, and the articulatory movements are expanded in time and space (cf.
also Lindblom’s 1990 H&H theory). In a ﬁrst step, ‘don’t’ is given a sec-
ond accent, with concomitant raising of the F0 peak in ‘know’, and there is
considerable lengthening of the complete vocal-tract opening-closing move-
ment in ‘don’t’, as well as a plosive realisation at its end: [aɪ dˈəʊnt(ʰ) nˈəʊ].
An overarticulated expansion [aɪ dˈuː nˈɒtʰ nˈəʊ] of the function words ‘do
not’, entailing additional accents on both, reinforces the truth value of the
statement of ‘not knowing’. This may be heightened still further by giving
‘I’ yet another accent and by inserting pauses between the words, and even
by accompanying each accent with a downward movement of the arm and
pointing index ﬁnger, and of the hand banging a table or a lectern (cf. the
Reduced-to-Elaborated Articulation 261
262 The EXPRESSION Function
pronouncement by President Clinton in 5.1.1). These are scaled Argumenta-
tive Reinforcements.
But in the elaboration of the statement ‘I do not know’ the speaker may
also introduce an expressive rejection of a listener’s repeated questioning. The
utterance is then no longer an Argumentative Reinforcement of propo-
sitional components but Emotive Intensification of a negative contrastive
attitude towards the listener. This is signalled by late peak contours on the
accented syllables, by pressed, instead of modal, phonation throughout the
utterance and by considerable lengthening of all vocal-tract opening-closing
movements, thus expressing degrees of exasperation. Such Negative Inten-
sification is dependent on socio-cultural conventions and is most probably
accompanied by body movements that differ from the ones used in Argumen-
tative Reinforcement, i.e. furrowed brow and clenched ﬁst.
Moving in the other direction on the elaboration-reduction scale, the opening-
closing movements of the vocal tract may be levelled, and F0 narrowed and
synchronised differently with articulation. This leads to [(aɪ) də nˈəʊ], which
is casual and informal, and conveys to the listener that the speaker does not
care about not being able to provide an answer. If the accent is marked by an
early peak contour, the speaker signals Finality – the closure of a commu-
nicative turn: there is no more to be said. If used in a formal situation this may
be received as insolence.
Reduction may go further to the maximally contracted form [ə̃
̞ ə̃ə̃
̝ ], with very
weak segmental articulation. It may be uttered in a relaxed communicative sit-
uation between family members. For example, A asks B, who is busy reading
a book and does not want to be disturbed, where the newspaper is, and B’s
response is made as a sideline to her main activity at the time. Its function is
to signal to A in an aside way not to expect help in looking for the newspaper
because she is otherwise occupied. This communicative function determines
the phonetic output. The three opening-closing gestures of the weakly reduced
form ‘I don’t know’ in the neutral message remain in a rudimentary fashion as
a movement from a more open and fronted, through a central, to a more closed
and retracted vocoid shape of the vocal tract, reﬂecting the progression of the
open phases in the fuller gestures, with superimposed nasality representing the
negation. This progression could not be reversed, nor could nasality be embod-
ied in a nasal contoid, e.g. [n
̩ n
̩ n
̩ ], but it must not be absent either. The rhythmic
timing also reﬂects the fuller form, with the central section being shortest, the
ﬁnal one longest. A possible intonation pattern is falling on the ﬁrst section and
low rising on the last, conveying a friendly rebuttal ‘Don’t ask me’ in the situa-
tionalsettingdescribedabove.Theopen-closeprogressionofthevocoidquality,
the nasalisation throughout and the rhythmic timing of the vocoid sections
together with the falling-rising F0 pattern form the phonetic essence (Niebuhr
and Kohler 2011) of this utterance in its situational speech function. If the F0
contour is resynthesised on an otherwise constant schwa hum it becomes noise
and is no longer decodable as reduced speech.
The German equivalent of English ‘I do not know’, in its various formal mani-
festations reﬂecting the semantic and pragmatic functions, is ‘keine Ahnung’.
Neutral [kʰa
̝̈ ënë ˈã
̰ ːnʊ̃ŋ] compares with elaborated [kʰˈaɪ̃ːnë ʔˈã
̰ ːnʊ̃ŋ], and with
maximally reduced [häɛ
̈ ë ˈãɑ̃õ]. The neutral version has four clearly demar-
cated opening-closing vocal-tract movements, with glottalisation marking the
opening phase in the third, and an early peak pattern is associated with the
prominent third gesture for the function of argumentative Finality. A medial
peak is also possible in the neutral version to signal argumentative Openness.
In the elaborated version, articulation and prosody are intensiﬁed, a glottal
closure marks the juncture between the closing of the second and the opening
of the third gesture, and both ‘kei(ne)’ and ‘Ah(nung)’ are accented. If, in addi-
tion, pressed phonation with breathiness takes the place of modal phonation
throughout the utterance, and late instead of medial peak contours occur with
the accents, the effect of Negative Intensification is introduced, express-
ing exasperation (see graphic displays in Kohler 2011b).
In the reduced version, the clear demarcation disappears, but the progres-
sion of closing-opening-closing front-back vocoid shaping of the vocal tract
remains, and nasalisation marks the ﬁnal two gestures instead of a nasal con-
toid separator, while the initial opening movement retains breathy phonation.
The timing of the gestures is also kept, and an early peak pattern is again
associated with the prominent third gesture to ﬁt the conclusiveness of the
communicative exchange. The vocoid modulation, its rhythmic timing, the
superimposed nasalisation, together with the early peak synchronisation, and
the initial breathiness form the phonetic essence of this reduced German utter-
ance; reduction does not go any further if it is to stay speech.
The discussion of the form and function of corresponding English and Ger-
man sets of utterances containing the same strings of words suggests that a
speech-functional scale can be set up that extends from a neutral propositional
pivot in two directions, to Expressive High-Key with segmental and pro-
sodic expansion on the one side, and Expressive Low-Key with segmen-
tal and prosodic levelling on the other. Both High-Key strengthening and
Low-Key weakening introduce the speaker’s expressiveness towards the
listener and the communicative situation. Expressive High-Key may be
Reinforcement of the truth value of propositional meaning to drive home an
Reduced-to-Elaborated Articulation 263
264 The EXPRESSION Function
Argumentation point to the listener, or Negative or Positive Intensifi-
cation of expressive meaning. Low-Key playing-down may be a parentheti-
cal aside, or it may signal indifference to the listener and disinterest in what is
going on in the communicative situation. Different locations on this functional
scale activate distinctive bundlings of segmental and prosodic properties in
speakers’ speech production. Listeners decode the received phonetically rich
signals by relating them to speech functions along the functional scale, thus
understanding the propositional, attitudinal and expressive aspects of meaning
conveyed by speakers in speciﬁc communicative situations.
5.3 Some Postulates for Research into Expressive Evaluation in
Human Language
The principles of Expressive Evaluation, set out for German and English,
may be expected to have a communicative function in human speech inter-
action generally, with varying formal manifestations across languages. This
formal variability, along the reduced-to-elaborated scale among others, pro-
vides a new ﬁeld of phonetic investigation into typological groupings that go
well beyond traditional segmental or prosodic typologies in the phonologies
of the world’s languages. Negative Intensification may be postulated
as a universal function expressing anything from dislike to disgust, and as
such may be considered an adaptation of the biological function of vomiting
(Trojan, Tembrock and Schendl 1975) to human speech communication. Like
its vegetative root, this communicative stylisation is characterised by vocal-
tract, especially pharyngeal, narrowing, and by raising of the larynx. The
phonetic processes of increasing non-sonority by strengthening initial voice-
less consonants and by fricativising syllabic nuclei through pressed phonation
would result naturally from such a production basis. Positive Intensifica-
tion has the opposite articulation basis, i.e. vocal-tract widening, with the
observed phonetic properties following from it, and, of course, the differences
go together with different facial expressions of contortion versus elation.
The discussion of Expressive weighting of messages may now be summed
up in ﬁve research postulates:
• Expressive Evaluation is not only manifested in prosodic
parameters, but cuts across all linguistic levels – segmental as well as
prosodic, lexical, morphological, syntactic.
• Manifestations differ with communicative functions and their com-
binations.
• This means that a communicatively insightful analysis needs to pro-
ceed from the communicative functions to their linguistic forms.
• Since the speaker’s Expression is an integral part of speech
communication, it needs to be included beside the traditional
linguistic levels in the speech scientist’s study of communicative
processes in the world’s languages, rather than being exiled to a ﬁeld
of paralinguistics.
• Long-time settings for the Expression of the Emotions and short-
time settings in Expressive Low-to-High Key are future core
research areas in Communicative Phonetic Science that go beyond the
space and scope of this monograph.
5.4 Speaker Attitudes towards the Listener: From Authority to
Subordination
The communicative function that plays a central role in human interaction is
the expression of authority and dominance versus subordination and compli-
ance. It has been suggested by Ohala (1983, 1984) that a speaker’s general
pitch level is one of the signal properties that code this speaker–listener rela-
tionship. Thus, to sound more authoritative, Queen Elizabeth II lowered her
pitch level in public addresses, e.g. in the more recent Christmas Broadcasts
compared with the early ones; British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher took
elocution lessons to achieve the same goal; radio and television newsreaders
used to be chosen and trained with regard to a low pitch level, for example
Fiona Bruce on the BBC, or Dagmar Berghoff on the German ARD televi-
sion channel. When television news programmes changed from authoritative
reading to interactive infotainment, for instance on BBC breakfast television,
or on BBC World News, low-pitch voices no longer ﬁtted the new way of giv-
ing information, and consequently speakers are selected more with regard to
their interactive abilities and their youthfulness, both aspects favouring higher,
rather than lower, pitch. But this does not remove signalling authority or sub-
ordination from the functional core of human interaction, nor does it negate a
link with pitch level, at least in European languages.
Although the expression of speaker–listener attitudes is a universal commu-
nicative function across the world’s languages, cultural and linguistic societies
differ in the use of its formal manifestations. In Japanese, for example, the
expression of social relationships is formalised at the lexical and morphologi-
cal levels. How far this is combined with differences in pitch level is a question
of empirical research. The use of formal means beside or instead of pitch level
Speaker Attitudes towards the Listener 265
266 The EXPRESSION Function
in sub-Saharan register and Asian contour tone languages also needs thorough
investigation. Even in European languages, which Ohala took as the point of
departure for his proposal of the Frequency Code, the exponents of this attitu-
dinal function are not limited to F0, but include different types of phonation as
further essential ingredients.
The expression of authority with low pitch and added creakiness has
assumed an additional dimension of demonstrating powerful position in the
public appearance of female speakers, for example US businesswomen. But
this association is by no means ﬁxed. The former CEO of Newton Investment
Management (a subsidiary of the Bank of New York Mellon in the City of
London), British-born and -bred Helena Morrissey, the founder of the 30%
Club for women’s representation on company boards in the UK, and a mother
of nine children, sounds authoritative not by demonstrating her powerful posi-
tion in a low and creaky voice, but by supporting her Argumentation with
frequent reinforced accents for Information Weighting and Argumenta-
tive Reinforcement. In an interview on Woman’s Hour on BBC Radio 4, 11
April 2013 (www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01rr7r9), her very feminine voice
is in striking contrast with the deep and creaky voice of the presenter Jenni
Murray. This example demonstrates that speakers may adapt the formal expo-
nents of a speciﬁc function to their own individuality within a set cultural code.
267
6 Linguistic Form of Communicative
Functions in Language Comparison
The framework of core communicative functions developed in this mono-
graph is a theoretical construct of human interaction, based on observation
in European languages and on the a priori postulate that there are functions
of speech communication as part of human behaviour that are common to all
language communities but have language-speciﬁc formal exponents. The con-
stant inter-language communicative functions determine the transmission of
meaning between speakers and listeners and trigger the variable intra-language
forms. In this sense, function precedes form. This postulate offers a powerful
methodological frame for the comparative study of formal across-language
manifestations. Among such postulated interlanguage communicative func-
tions are the following: Argumentation, Question versus Statement,
Information Selection and Weighting, High-Key Intensification. It is
the speech scientist’s task to investigate how the functions are formally mani-
fested in the languages of the world, thus giving comparative prosodic research
new direction.
6.1 Application to Mandarin Chinese
In a ﬁrst step, some preliminary Mandarin Chinese data have been collected
and analysed within this communicative framework. The discussion will focus
on Argumentation in 6.1.1, and on Question/Statement in 6.1.2. In both
cases, manifestations are set against those in German and English. Since tonal
features are tied up in the lexical tones of a tone language, it is a prime question
how speakers implement the categories of the functional framework as over-
lays of the lexical tone distinctions.
6.1.1 ARGUMENTATION
Watching Stephen Frears’s ﬁlm The Queen, with Helen Mirren in the role
of Queen Elizabeth II, shortly after its release in 2006 I became aware of the
actors’ control of prosody in communicative Argumentation. In the opening
268 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
scene, the ﬁlm shows the Queen in full regal robes in a portrait-painting session,
watching a television report on the ﬁnal stage of Tony Blair’s 1997 General
Election campaign and talking to the portrait artist, played by the Jamaican
Earl Cameron. She regrets that she does not have a vote. Then the following
dialogue develops:
Q. The sheer joy of being partial.
A. [late peak]Yes. Of course one forgets that, as sovereign, you are not
[late peak]entitled to vote.
Q. [early peak]No.
followed, a little later, by
A. But it [late peak]is your government.
Q. [early peak]Yes. S’ppose that’s some consolation.
In two later telephone conversations between the Queen and Prime Minister
Tony Blair, played by Michael Sheen, there are the following exchanges:
P. Is it your intention to make some kind of appearance or statement?
Q. [late peak]No. [late peak]No. [late peak]Certainly not.
[The Queen hurriedly rejects the Prime Minister’s suggestion right at
the beginning of his telephone call.]
P. Let’s keep in touch.
Q. [medial peak]Yes, [medial peak]let’s.
[The Queen wants to end the telephone call quickly, therefore the
words are spoken fast and sound clipped.]
With the three different prosodies on ‘yes’, the female RP speaker and the male
speaker of Jamaican English convey distinctive communicative functions of
Argumentation. The auditory differences and their functional distinctions
were immediately obvious to me when I was watching the ﬁlm in a London
cinema. On ‘yes’, the Queen’s early peak signals resigned acceptance of a
political fact, her medial peak authoritative consent, and the artist’s late peak
personally evaluated contrast to the monarch’s pronouncement, spelt out by a
‘But…’. With an early peak on ‘No’, the actress expresses the queen’s resigned
acceptance of the constitutional ruling; with a late peak and much higher pitch,
going up in the repetition, she expresses her personally evaluated contradiction
of the other speaker’s question, underscored by ‘Certainly not’.
Later I obtained an excerpt of the soundtrack and analysed the data in Praat.
This analysis conﬁrmed the auditory observation of early, medial and late
peaks (see 2.7, 2.8). The female speaker’s data are shown in Figure 6.1Aa/Ab.
The early peak enters the accented vowel nucleus on descending F0 and
Application to Mandarin Chinese 269
strengthens low pitch in the falling pattern. The medial peak enters it on raised
F0 and strengthens high pitch; the shortening in clipped speech prevents a slow
descent, but the raised F0 maximum and the initial high level provide the high-
pitch ingredients. The late peak shows a shift of the F0 maximum to a later
point in the accented-vowel nucleus with an extensive rise-fall. In addition, the
energy trace follows the more gradual descent of F0 in the longer early peak
Figure 6.1. Speech waves, F0 (log scale) and acoustic energy traces (plain
and dotted lines) and word-segmented annotations of afﬁrmation/negation in
RP English: A female, Helen Mirren; and of two afﬁrmations in Mandarin
Chinese: B female, Aoju Chen, C male, Yi Xu: a English ‘yes’, Mandarin
‘hao-3’ low tone [OK] b English ‘no’, Mandarin ‘xing-2’ rising tone [OK].
In each panel, the F0 and acoustic energy traces on the left signal Finality,
the ones on the right Openness.
270 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
vowel in both ‘yes’ and ‘no’, but is more sharply peaked in the much shorter
medial peak vowel; in the late peak it follows the F0 rise and fall. The three
peak patterns with their different focusing on low or high pitch in different
parts of the accented-vowel nucleus express Finality, or Openness, or Con-
trast with superimposed personal evaluation, respectively.
After seeing the ﬁlm, I thought that on the hypothesis of Argumenta-
tion functions being basic in human communication, words of afﬁrmation
and negation must be combined with them in any language, and that we need
to ﬁnd out how it is done the world over. It may be further hypothesised that
higher versus lower pitch for Openness versus Finality would play a role
in all languages, because raised pitch stimulates the human receiver, whereas
lowered pitch signals speaker-orientation. Raising or lowering pitch can be
achieved in different ways, and it is particularly interesting to see what speak-
ers of tone languages do, where pitch is coded at the word level and therefore
more restricted in interactional coding at the utterance level. As I had arranged
a meeting with Yi Xu at UCL to discuss editorial matters the day after seeing
the ﬁlm, I decided to broach the subject with him. He agreed that ‘hao-3’ and
‘xing-2’, both meaning ‘OK’, would have the F0 of their lexical tones adjusted
to Openness versus Finality contextualisation in speech communication. He
recorded the words in the two different settings (shown in Figure 6.1Ca/Cb).
To get a recording from a female speaker as well, I approached Aoju Chen,
MPI Nijmegen at the time, who recorded the words as illustrated in Figure
6.1Ba/Bb. I am very grateful to both colleagues for providing the data. Aoju
Chen also paraphrased situational contexts in English for the two functions.
For Finality, the low tone ends low, and concomitantly acoustic energy
is low or decreases, whereas for Openness, pitch rises, and energy is high or
increases. Similarly, the high tone ends lower or higher, and concomitantly
FINALITY: the speaker closes the argument and may express reluctance and even resignation
Your boss asks you to hand in a project proposal soon. You explain that this is not
feasible for various reasons. But your boss insists that your company needs the proposal
quickly.
Your boss: Will you then hand in the proposal in two weeks?
You: hao3, xing2 (traces on the left in panels Ba/Bb, Ca/Cb of Figure 6.1)
OPENNESS: the speaker is open to the argument and may express willingness to comply
Your boss asks you to hand in a project proposal soon. Because it is a very short
proposal and you have a clear idea of what it should be like, you think it can be done
quite easily.
Your boss: Will you hand in the proposal in two weeks?
You: hao3, xing2 (traces on the right in panels Ba/Bb, Ca/Cb of Figure 6.1)
Application to Mandarin Chinese 271
the time course of acoustic energy is on a lower or higher level. Finality
strengthens low pitch, Openness high pitch in the accented syllable within
the constraints of the lexical tones. So, in Mandarin Chinese pitch lowering or
raising is at work in order to code Finality and Openness, as it is in Eng-
lish and German, simply adapted to the conditions set by the tone language. I
reported these data in a talk (Kohler 2009b) at the International Symposium on
Frontiers in Phonetics and Speech Science held by the Institute of Linguistics,
Chinese Academy, Beijing, in conjunction with the celebration of the 100th
birthday of Professor Zongji Wu, in April 2008. Members of the audience con-
ﬁrmed a perceptual link between F0 lowering or raising and the Argumenta-
tion functions of Finality or Openness for native Mandarin speakers.
The pilot study presented here needs to be extended in three ways: (1) to all
four lexical tones, (2) to more words, utterance types and speakers, and (3) to
systematic experimental designs in speech production and perception, to pro-
vide a statistically evaluated measurement base for the theory-driven hypoth-
esis. This is a long-term and quite complex project, which I hope Chinese
speech scientists will tackle in the near future. Argumentation functions
have so far not been studied in Mandarin Chinese, although there is extensive
data analysis of focus in declarative and interrogative structures in isolated
sentences (Jia 2012; Liu 2009; Liu and Xu 2005; Xu 1999). But this research is
not sufﬁcient to gain an insight into communicative functions because it deals
only with information structure in propositional meaning and is thus discon-
nected from Argumentation in speech interaction.
In this communicative approach, the possibility will also have to be consid-
ered that functions of Argumentation are not primarily signalled by prosody
but by lexical and syntactic means. Here is an example from German and Eng-
lish to illustrate the divergence between languages. In the dialogues
A: Kommst du nicht mit? Aren’t you coming with us?
B: Nein. / Doch. No. / Yes (I am).
A refers to a proposition ‘You are coming with us’, previously established
or taken for granted, negates its truth value and asks whether B agrees. In case
of agreement, Speaker B also negates the truth value of the proposition with
‘Nein’ or ‘No.’ This negation may be spoken with one of the four F0 peak
synchronisations for one of the Argumentation functions (see the early
peak in the Queen’s ‘No’ above). In case of disagreement, the German speaker
rejects A’s negation of the truth value with ‘Doch’ and a non-early peak, its
synchronisation depending on the grading of Contrast and Expressive
Evaluation. The English speaker reverts to the use of ‘Yes’, as in a reply to
272 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
a positive Polarity Question, but signals afﬁrmation of the propositional
truth value against A’s negation with a contrastive high-rising fall-rise pattern
&2^yes &2.? PG (Halliday’s broken tone 2, cf. 1.4.2), which may be repeated
on added ‘I am’, or ‘Yes’ may receive the fall, ‘am’ the rise, for degrees of
High-Key Intensification. Rejection of a negation may also be rendered
lexically in English by ‘Of course I am’, but with greater Intensification
than German ‘Doch’.
In Early Modern English until the late sixteenth century, ‘yes’ was used
alongside ‘yea’, with distinctive communicative functions between the two
afﬁrmations: ‘yea’ is the afﬁrmative reply to a positive Polarity Question,
‘yes’ the afﬁrmative reply to a proposition that was negated in a negative
Polarity Question. Early Modern English usage of ‘yes’, which Shake-
speare still adhered to, is thus the same as that of German ‘doch’. There are dif-
ferent opinions about the etymology of ‘yes’, but the syntagma ‘yea so’ seems
to be communicatively most plausible because ‘so’ emphasises the afﬁrmation
by pointing to the proposition (for more details about the system of afﬁrmation
and negation in the history of English, see Kohler 1970). These data show
very nicely that Argumentation may have primary lexical coding, no doubt
with a prosodic subsidiary, at some language stage, but may, at a later stage,
move to primary prosodic coding, whereas another language keeps the lexical
marker. Research should keep this in mind.
6.1.2 QUESTION versus STATEMENT
Following on from the general postulate of the universality of the Question-
function, the three sub-functions of Information Questions, Polarity
Questions, Confirmation Questions are also postulated to apply across
all languages. The formal principles of Information Questions in Manda-
rin Chinese have been discussed in 4.2.1.
6.1.2.1 Pilot Study
Questions in Mandarin Chinese have been studied extensively, but always
from the angle of linguistic form. Even the detailed analysis of parallel encod-
ing of interrogative meaning, focus and lexical tone in Mandarin Chinese (Liu
2009; Liu and Xu 2005) starts from formal question types, graphically marked,
among others, as a statement by a period, or as ma particle question, or as a
so-called yes-no question, i.e. in declarative syntax, with a question mark. This
leaves out the situational embedding of different types of Question functions
in speech communication. It is essential to investigate their formal realisations,
superimposed on lexical tone, in a communicative framework. Kohler (2013b)
Application to Mandarin Chinese 273
collected and analysed some preliminary data from one female speaker, with
dialogue texts constructed in a scenario of husband and wife wondering how
to occupy their boy. The contextualisation gave a high probability of eliciting
Polarity and Confirmation Questions, with and without Surprise, as
well as Statements including Contrast. In the following listing of some of
the dialogues, the target utterances are underlined.
Husband
wǒmen jīntiān dài érzi qù nǎr wán ne? ní zěnme xiǎng?
‘What shall we do with the boy today? What do you think?’
Polarity Question
A tā xǐhuan qù dòngwùyuán/hǎitān ma?
‘Does he want to go to the zoo/beach?’
Wife
Statement with potential Contrast
wó xiǎng tā bú yuànyi qù.
‘I don’t think so.’
B Tā xǐhuan qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán.
‘He wants to go to the beach/zoo.’
Husband
Confirmation Questions
either Matter-of-fact
C1 tā xǐhuan qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán?
‘He wants to go to the beach/zoo?’
C2 tā búshì gèng xǐhuan qù dòngwùyuán/hǎitān ma?
‘He does not prefer the zoo/beach?’
or disbelieving Expression of Surprise
D tā xǐhuan qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán? zhēn nányǐxiāngxìn!
‘He wants to go to the beach/zoo? I can hardly believe that.’
The dialogues were read by the speaker in the roles of both wife and hus-
band. In the dialogue embedding, A is a Polarity Question of the open,
listener-oriented type (cf. PQ-2 in Germanic languages in 4.2.2.2). B is a
Statement that may also be contrastive; C1 is a Matter-of-Fact Confir-
mation Question (cf. CQ-2.1a in Germanic languages in 4.2.2.4), followed
by a Reinforced ma Polarity Question C2; D is a Confirmation Ques-
tion with Expression of Surprise (cf. CQ-2.1b in Germanic languages in
4.2.2.4).
Although the syllable tones are shifted upwards in the ma Polarity
Question A, compared with the Statement B, the difference is concen-
trated more on the utterance-ﬁnal word hǎitān or dòngwùyuán than being
distributed over the whole sentence. When Contrast enters a Reinforced
274 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
ma Polarity Question in C2, the F0 maximum of the high tone in hǎitān
is raised considerably, and the following neutral tone on ma does not just
level out but falls to the level of the high-tone onset, producing a dome-
shaped F0 contour around the high-tone level. In dòngwùyuán, the minimum
F0 of the falling tone is lowered and the maximum F0 of the rising tone is
raised, resulting in an increased F0 range into which ma is integrated, con-
tinuing the rise.
The Matter-of-Fact Confirmation Question C1 differs from
Statement B by having the entire tone sequences shifted upwards. More-
over, ﬁnal high-tone tān rises instead of being level, and ﬁnal rising-tone
yuán rises continuously very high. In the Surprise Confirmation Ques-
tion D, the falling-rising F0 contour of low+high-tone hǎitān is raised, and
the F0 contour of falling+rising-tone dòngwùyuán is expanded in its low
turning and its high end point, compared with Matter-of-fact Confirma-
tion Question C1. In addition, the ﬁnal syllable in both cases of D ends
in breathiness.
The results of this pilot test indicate that a raised register feature superim-
posed on the lexical tone sequence of a declarative structure signals a Con-
firmation Question. Expanding the F0 contour of the focused word and
overlaying it with breathiness adds the semantic component of disbelieving
Expression of Surprise. In the ma particle Polarity Question, the sylla-
ble tones are also raised, especially on the ﬁnal word + particle, where the F0
range is further expanded in a Reinforced Polarity Question. For further
detail and graphic displays, see Kohler (2013b).
6.1.2.2 Elaborated Experimental Design
Although the data in 6.1.2.1 point to clear function-form relations in Manda-
rin Chinese, it is obvious that systematic data collection has to record proper
dialogues with pairs of a male and a female speaker, also swapping the texts in
the two roles so that complete data sets are obtained from all male and female
speakers. In extensive discussion with Wentao Gu, Nanjing, the following
new set of dialogues was devised for systematic data collection with several
speaker pairs.
Husband/Wife Turn 1
Polarity Question wǒmen jīntiān dài érzi qù nǎr wán ne?
‘Where shall we go with the boy today?’
A tā xiǎng qù dòngwùyuán ma/hǎitān ma?
‘Does he want to go to the zoo/beach?’
Wife/Husband Turn 2
Statement with Openness
B wǒ juéde ba, kěnéng… tā xiǎng qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán.
‘I think, perhaps, he wants to go to the beach/zoo.’
Husband/Wife Turn 3
Confirmation Questions
either Matter-of-fact, continued by Statement with Contrast
C tā xiǎng qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán?
wǒ hái yǐwéi, tā xiǎng qù dòngwùyuán/hǎitān.
‘He wants to go to the beach/zoo?’
‘I thought he wanted to go to the zoo/beach.’
or disbelieving Expression of Surprise
D tā xiǎng qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán? zhēn nányǐxiāngxìn!
‘He wants to go to the beach/zoo? I can hardly believe that.’
Wife/Husband Turn 4
Statement with Finality
E shìde, wó gán kěndìng, tā xiǎng qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán.
‘I am quite sure. He wants to go to the beach/zoo.’
Husband/Wife Turn 5
Conclusion
either with Finality, taking ﬁnal decision (in the same dialogues as C)
G nà wǒmen zhǔnbèi hǎo, zhè jiù dài tā qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán.
‘OK. Then let’s get ready. We’ll take him to the beach/zoo right now.’
or with Openness, proposing ﬁnal agreement (in the same dialogues as D)
H nà wǒmen jiù shuōhǎo, jīntiān dài tā qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán.
‘OK. That’s agreed then. We take him to the beach/zoo today.’
Two turns were added to the three taken over from the pilot study. A dia-
logue conclusion is necessary, and from the same speaker who opens a dia-
logue. The concluding turn is G after A-B-C, and H after A-B-D. With G, the
speaker takes a ﬁnal decision, signalling Finality; with H, s/he proposes ﬁnal
agreement, signalling Openness. In E, inserted as the fourth turn between C/D
and G/H, the same speaker as in the second turn changes the previous Open to
a Final Statement.
The dialogues systematically vary (1) the lexical tones with the key words
hǎitān or dòngwùyuán, (2) Polarity versus Confirmation Question ver-
sus Statement, (3) presence versus absence of Surprise in Confirmation
Questions, (4) Openness versus Finality in Statements, resulting in 4
different dialogue texts. Two blocks are formed by the turn sequences A-B-
C-E-G and A-B-D-E-H. Within each block, the turns contain either hǎitān or
Application to Mandarin Chinese 275
276 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
dòngwùyuán, and the dialogues are repeated with male/female text swapping.
This yields 2 × 2 × 2 = 8 dialogues. Since A, B, E are combined both with C, G
and with D, H, there are two A, B, E hǎitān and dòngwùyuán tokens from each
speaker. For the recording, the eight dialogue texts are put in Chinese script
on separate sheets, which are presented to speakers in an ordered sequence
such that the turn allocations alternate between husband–wife and wife–
husband from dialogue to dialogue. This distracts speakers from text repetition
and strengthens the dialogue nature.
Wentao Gu recruited nine male–female speaker pairs who were ﬁrst- or sec-
ond-year students of Broadcasting and Hosting Arts at Nanjing Normal Uni-
versity, and who all had ﬁrst-class second-level Mandarin competence. They
were recorded under studio conditions. In each dialogue session, both speakers
were given the same ordered pack of eight dialogue sheets which they were
instructed to read out, enacting eight dialogues between each other in the given
dialogue sequence, as well as with the given male–female and female–male
alternation. For each pair of speakers I compiled four spliced ﬁles: two for
the male and two for the female speaker, containing all the eleven (under-
lined) dòngwùyuán or hǎitān target utterances of one speaker. Listening to the
spliced ﬁles showed up to my non-native but trained ear a fair amount of vari-
ation between speakers. For adequate data interpretation, auditory assessment
together with a native expert was mandatory before any signal analysis.
In a four-day working session in Kiel, Wentao Gu and I analysed the spliced
data ﬁles in Praat auditorily with reference to spectrogram and F0 displays,
considering two questions: (a) did the speakers produce the test stimuli in
accordance with the intended contextualisation (or perhaps introduce further
distinctions)?; and (b) are the speakers suitable subjects for experimental study
of prosody in speech interaction? On a rating scale ‘good–medium–bad’ of
convincing dialogue generation, two speaker pairs had to be excluded from
further processing. Due to the variability between speakers in their realisations
of the postulated functions, the database was neither sufﬁciently homogeneous
nor large enough for numerical signal analysis and statistical testing. There-
fore, the analysis had to be limited to auditory data description with reference
to signal patterns. The results are discussed in 6.1.2.3, and the spectrogram and
F0 displays in Figure 6.2 illustrate some representative signal manifestations
of the functional categories for one speaker pair, GG.
6.1.2.3 Results of the Expanded Experiment
The scripted dialogues determine distinctive categorisations of the two lexical
items dòngwùyuán and hǎitān as Polarity Questions in A, Confirmation
Questions in C/D and Statements in B/E. Despite variation between speak-
ers within these categories, distinctive prosodic coding is maintained. However,
the texts give the individual speakers freedom of interpretation as to Finality
versus Openness in the Statements, as to the scaling of Matter-of-Fact
versus Surprise in the Confirmation Questions, and as to the presence ver-
sus the absence of Contrast between the two localities. Through this freedom
of text interpretation, speakers introduced variability in the prosodic patterning
Application to Mandarin Chinese 277
Figure 6.2. Spectrograms and F0 traces (log scale) of Questions (A, C,
D) and Statements (B, E) in dòngwùyuán and hǎitān utterances (left and
right columns) of Mandarin Chinese. ma Polarity Questions with syllabic
segmentation, same syllabic sequence without ﬁnal question particle ma in
the other utterances.
a male speaker GCC, Anqing, Jianghuai Mandarin
278 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
of the three interactive functions. Auditory signal- and meaning-related analysis
can disentangle the distinctive prosodic features of the basic functions from
those of the additional ones; numerical measurement, removed from the seman-
tic interpretation of each utterance in dialogue context, cannot achieve this on
such a limited database.
Polarity Questions in A
Although this Question function is marked by the particle ma, F0 raising is
an additional feature in comparison with the Finality Statement E. It either
spreads over the whole utterance, or it is concentrated on the word enquired
about by F0 range expansion. The former pattern is found in both speakers’
Figure 6.2. (Cont.)
b female speaker GCM, Wuhu, Jianghuai Mandarin.
hǎitān as well as in the female speaker’s dòngwùyuán question in Figure 6.2,
and in one token of the male speaker’s dòngwùyuán question. But the repeti-
tion, shown in Figure 6.2, has the other pattern, a lower fall and a higher rise for
its falling and rising tones; this pattern was also found in the pilot study. Both
patterns occur across the whole group of subjects, with pitch height varying
from lower to higher to signal increasing listener-orientation: pitch height is
correlated with question strength, ranging from expecting a particular answer
to strongly soliciting a polarity decision. Furthermore, pitch expansion gives
more weight to the word enquired about.
In addition to global and local raising of pitch, lexical tones interact with ques-
tion prosody. After the rising tone, all the speakers integrate ma into a continu-
ous rising F0 pattern, which may become ﬂatter towards the end. But after the
high tone, speakers handle F0 across ma in two ways. Some also have a rising
pattern throughout; others produce a dome-shaped pattern, rising from the high-
tone syllable to ma and then dropping back to the rise-onset level, or further to
the speaker’s bottom pitch range. The continuous rising F0 pattern generates the
highest pitch level and consequently is the strongest Question Appeal; for the
listener to take a Polarity decision, the low-falling pattern is the weakest.
Confirmation Questions in C/D
In this Question function, all the speakers raise pitch level considerably,
compared with the other speech functions. The differentiation between C and
D is less homogeneous and sometimes less clearly marked. In the dòngwùyuán
utterances of Figure 6.2 both speakers raise the global F0 level of D beyond
that in C. On the other hand, both speakers strengthen high pitch at the end of
hǎitān, the woman by expanded F0 range in the ﬁnal syllable, starting a little
lower and ending a little higher, the man by lengthened high F0 in the nasal.
In both cases, the difference is small. There is breathy voice in both C and D
of the male speaker, whereas it is a differentiating feature in D of other speak-
ers. Subjects obviously found it more difﬁcult to differentiate Confirmation
Questions with and without the expression of Surprise, and there may be
interference from lexical tone, the gliding rising tone lending itself better to
Emotive High-Key raising than the high-level tone.
Statements in B/E
All the speakers realise Finality Statements E at the lowest global pitch
level of the three speech functions, and raise Openness Statements B to
a higher level that may be similar to that in Polarity Questions or even
above it, depending on how strongly the speaker involves the listener in the
decision-making (see the representative data in Figure 6.2).
Application to Mandarin Chinese 279
280 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
Dialogue Conclusion in G/H
All the speakers conclude the dialogues with both G and H lowering the global
F0 level of tā qù hǎitān/dòngwùyuán, but for the majority of speakers the ﬁnal
syllable of both words rises higher in H than in G. With G, the speaker signals
Finality, concluding the dialogue with a ﬁnal decision; with H, s/he sig-
nals Openness, concluding the dialogue with a proposal of a ﬁnal agreement.
These are the same prosodic Argumentation patterns favouring low or high
pitch, respectively, as in the examples discussed in 6.1.1.
6.1.2.4 Communicative Function and Linguistic Form in
Context of Situation
The results of the expanded experimental paradigm converge with, and com-
plement, those of the pilot study. Confirmation Questions in the Mandarin
Chinese data are coded by intonation interrogatives with raised pitch in declar-
ative syntax. Pitch register is raised across the entire question, compared with
the Statement. The same combination of raised register with declarative
syntax occurs in English and German Confirmation Questions, besides
nuclear valley patterns (cf. 4.2.2.4).
Polarity Questions in the Mandarin Chinese data are coded by ma par-
ticle interrogatives, as against the English and German word-order interrog-
atives, which combine with either a nuclear peak or valley pattern, depending
on whether the speaker expects the answer to be at one pole or solicits an open
polarity decision from the listener (cf. 4.2.2.2). This functional distinction
between greater speaker or listener orientation was not captured systematically
in the collection of the Mandarin database, but the data analysis suggests that
it exists as a correlation of lower to higher global pitch levels with Question
strength. Thus, with a low pitch level, a speaker signals a weak Question
Appeal, being quite conﬁdent of receiving a speciﬁc polarity decision, but
signals increasing uncertainty as to what the addressee’s polarity decision may
be with increasing pitch-level height.
The auditory signal-related descriptive analysis procedure applied to the
constructed Mandarin Chinese dialogues made it possible to gain some insight
into the function-form categorisations of Questions, which would have been
blurred if a pure measurement approach had been adopted for the highly vari-
able data. Intensive discussion with Wentao Gu followed the auditory analysis
in a long series of e-mail exchanges. He provided further, introspective data
on aspects of Mandarin Questions, which I gratefully acknowledge. Here is a
systematic summary in relation to the function-form framework presented for
English and German.
Application to Mandarin Chinese 281
(1) ba Particle in Enquiring Statement
If Mandarin Chinese speakers want to signal that they are certain of the
listener’s decision, they use the ba particle instead of ma. The equivalents in
English and German are declarative syntax with a reversed-polarity question
tag, and declarative syntax with a modal particle, respectively (cf. 4.2.2.6).
These speciﬁc devices in the three languages serve the same function of mak-
ing a statement with an appeal to comment upon and conﬁrm an Enquiring
Statement. Here are some examples to illustrate the functional distinction
between Polarity Question and Enquiring Statement:
Polarity Question
nǐ xǐ huān zhè yàng ma? English ‘Do you like it?’ German ‘Gefällt dir das?’
(a) with high pitch on ma, corresponding to English and German
valley patterns, the higher the pitch, the greater the Appeal for a
Polarity decision
(b) with low pitch on ma, corresponding to English and German
peak patterns, Weak Appeal because the speaker is conﬁdent
of an afﬁrmative answer
Enquiring Statement
nǐ xǐ huān zhè yàng ba? with low pitch on ba, English ‘You like this, don’t
you?’ German ‘Das gefällt dir, nicht? (cf. Theme-Rheme Polarity Ques-
tion in 4.2.2.6)
(c) the speaker takes the afﬁrmative answer for granted
(2) Particle and Intonation Interrogative with Different Functions in
Same Context
It has also become clear that both ma particle and intonation interrogatives can
occur in the same situational context, for example in an adapted pilot-study
dialogue:
A: Tā xǐhuan qù hǎitān.
[He wants to go to the beach.]
B/1: tā xǐhuan qù hǎitān?
[He wants to go to the beach?]
B/2a: bù xǐhuan qù dòngwùyuán ma?
[Doesn’t he want to go to the zoo?]
B/1: tā xǐhuan qù hǎitān?
[He wants to go to the beach?]
B/2b: bù xǐhuan qù dòngwùyuán? (with raised pitch)
[Doesn’t want to go to the zoo?]
282 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
At ﬁrst sight, this looks as if the two interrogative forms can be exchanged
for the same function. But closer examination shows that this is not the case.
B/1 and B/2b are intonation interrogatives, and, as in English and German
(see 4.2.2.5), B/1 is a Confirmation Question, either continued by another
Confirmation Question B/2b, or followed by a Polarity Question B/2a
in ma particle form.
Likewise, in the situational context of enquiring about a coffee break, illus-
trated for English and German in 4.2.2.5, the intonation interrogative with
raised pitch
wǒmen hē diǎn kāfēi?
[We’ll have some coffee?]
functions as a Confirmation Question, where the speaker refers to a propo-
sition signalled in the speaker–listener common ground, asking for conﬁrma-
tion. On the other hand, the ma particle interrogative
wǒmen hē diǎn kāfēi ma?
[Shall we have some coffee?]
functions as a Polarity Question, where the speaker sets a new proposition,
enquiring as to its truth value.
These Mandarin data demonstrate again that both Question functions can
occur in the same context of situation, depending on the degrees of freedom
with which the speaker constructs the communicative interaction in this context.
(3) Raised ma Particle as a Marker of Question Strength
The data of both experimental studies point to an additional raised pitch fea-
ture in the coding of Polarity Questions by ma particle interrogatives. The
higher the ending pitch on ma, the more the Question Appeal is strength-
ened. Thus, the ma particle has become a marker of Question strength and
may be added to intonation interrogative form in Confirmation Questions
to raise their Question Appeal as well. This is parallel to the use of interrog-
ative syntax in high register to code a more querying Confirmation Ques-
tion in English and German (cf. 4.2.2.5).
(4) Ellipsis in Polarity Questions
The ma particle may be left out in Polarity Question ellipsis, resulting in
the formal coalescence of the Polarity and Confirmation functions in dif-
ferent situational settings, as illustrated for English (with German equivalents)
in 4.2.2.5 (cf. the settings there):
Application to Mandarin Chinese 283
In (I)(a), ellipsis cannot go as far as simple ‘ka1fei1?’ But this is possible in
the following scenario.
(c) A2: Ni3 shi4 shuo1 Wang2 Fang1 ma? [Did you mean Wang Fang?]
A2 does not ask for Confirmation of B’s proposition but enquires about a
new proposition ‘Do you really mean that it was Wang Fang?’ This is a new
enquiry about the real truth value of ‘Wang Fang passed on the information.’
In English, it could for example be rendered by ‘Do you really MEAN Wang
Fang?’ in this context. It is not a citation of the proposition for Confirmation,
but a Polarity enquiry as to whether the proposition is true.
(5) Future Research
Before any further experimental data are collected for numerical analysis,
the whole functional network of Polarity, Information and Confir-
mation Questions, and Enquiring Statements, using particle and/or
intonation interrogatives in Mandarin Chinese, requires more detailed study
through impressionistic knowledge acquisition by native-speaker linguistic
experts. This is Bertrand Russell’s Knowledge by Acquaintance (see the
(I) (a) Lai2 bei1 ka1fei1? [Have cup of coffee?]
elliptic derivation from particle interrogative
Lai2 Bei1 ka1fei1 ma?
Both forms are POLARITY QUESTIONS.
(b) Lai2 Bei1 ka1fei1?
with high pitch intonation interrogative
This is a CONFIRMATION QUESTION; it may be formally identical with the ellipsis in
(a). However, unlike English, an alternative with high register falling pitch is not
possible.
(II) (a) B: Wang2 Fang1?
elliptic derivation from particle interrogative
Hui4 shi4 Wang2 Fang1 ma? [Can it be Wang Fang?]
Both forms are POLARITY QUESTIONS.
(b) A2: Wang2 Fang1?
with high pitch intonation interrogative
This is a CONFIRMATION QUESTION. The same applies as in (I)(b).
At a restaurant, A and B are reading the menu.
A1: Xian1 kan4kan he1 dian3 shen3me. [First let's see what to drink.]
B: Ka1fei1?
This is a POLARITY QUESTION, asking A’s opinion on B’s suggestion.
A2: Ka1fei1?’
This is a CONFIRMATION QUESTION, usually with surprise because A might have thought
of ordering alcoholic drinks.
There is a third possibility in (II):
284 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
Introduction), which can then be set in relation to a general theory of Appeal
functions, as has been attempted for English and German in this monograph.
This network will establish the default function-form relationships between
Polarity Question and particle interrogative, on the one hand, as well as
Confirmation Question and intonation interrogative, on the other. It will
then provide a theoretically motivated account of the function-form overlaps
deviating from these default links, as a basis for hypothesis-driven experi-
mental measurement.
6.2 Universal Prosody Code and Prosodic Typology
Since higher pitch, either higher register or rising, has been found to differ-
entiate certain types of Questions from Statements in many languages,
it is legitimate to ask whether we are dealing here with a universal, iconic
sound-meaning feature in all languages. Ohala (1983, 1984) answered in the
afﬁrmative by proposing the Frequency Code, which means that in asking a
question a speaker becomes subordinate to a listener, and subordination is
coded by a universal mechanism of raising pitch in speech (cf. also the three
biological codes in Gussenhoven 2002, 2004). It can certainly be regarded as
an ingredient in coding and decoding questions. But when the subcategorisa-
tion of questions is taken into account it becomes doubtful whether Ohala’s
Frequency Code can provide a general explanation for all types of questioning.
The function of Confirmation Questions, with or without surprise, is
to attract attention and to stimulate a dialogue partner into action, rather than
being passive subordination to the partner’s response. And Polarity Ques-
tions in which the speaker prejudges the answer tend to have falling pitch or
low pitch level in West Germanic languages or Mandarin Chinese, respec-
tively. Furthermore, closer inspection of the Question function in speech
communication has demonstrated that it is impossible to subsume the subtle
differentiation of many situationally determined types of question under the
same code of prosody generation.
It was moreover shown for German (see 2.11 and Kohler 2011b) that the
precursor to an accentual high rise may also be raised to a higher level. Listen-
ers judged Confirmation Questions with high precursors as expressing a
more agreeable attitude towards the addressee (on a contrary–agreeable scale)
than with low precursors. The same may be expected for English. As the high
rise has an activation function, this stimulation is intensiﬁed if the difference
in pitch between the utterance beginning and the end of the rise is increased,
i.e. by a low precursor, whereas the high precursor softens the repeat activation
Universal Prosody Code and Prosodic Typology 285
in a Confirmation Question, making it more accommodating. In German
and English, Confirmation Questions may also have falling pitch patterns
in declarative syntax transposed to a higher register to solicit conﬁrmation that
what is enquired about is true. This differs from a high-rising Confirmation
Question, which enquires about the truth value one way or the other.
These subtle differentiations of communicative Question functions need
a more sophisticated Question Code, which goes beyond, but of course incor-
porates, the Frequency Code, to try to explain more than a broad linguistic
dichotomy of interrogative and declarative. The Question Code encapsu-
lates the multifarious relations in communicative interaction between speaker
and listener where the listener-oriented Appeal function is central, but gets
adjusted in various ways by the speaker’s attitudes and expressiveness. There
is overwhelming evidence that the Appeal function is coupled with high pitch
(Bolinger 1978; Hermann 1942), but the coexistence of both high-rising and
high register in the same language to code different question types makes it
advisable to develop a universally valid Question Code cautiously within a
framework of communicative functions.
The Question Code may be investigated across the languages of the world
from a typological, rather than a universal, perspective of formal manifesta-
tions. What is universal is the Question Appeal function, and its subcatego-
ries of Polarity, Information, Confirmation Questions; Enquiring
Statements may also be assumed to have universal functional status. All lan-
guages have Information Questions with lexical interrogatives, but they
differ as to where these items are positioned in the utterance, and they may
also differ as to the use of prosodic features to differentiate between fact- and
listener-orientation. Polarity Questions, too, occur in all languages. But
languages differ in the use of particles and where they are put, or by interroga-
tive syntactic structure. If they are marked by particles, there may be just one,
as in Mandarin Chinese, forming a system with the Enquiring Statement
particle. Or there may be several for different expected polarity decisions, as
in Latin:
ne added to the focused word for open polarity
nonne for expected afﬁrmation
num for expected negation
Pitch height is very common in coding the strength of the Question Appeal
in Polarity Questions, but by no means universal; other prosodic features
may be combined with low pitch to generate the effect, as in African tone
languages (Rialland 2007). If Question Appeal is marked by pitch height, it
286 Linguistic Form of Communicative Functions
may be by valley as against peak patterns, as in the West Germanic languages,
or by pitch register, as in Mandarin Chinese. It may also be based on high
pitch in late peak synchronisation, as against low pitch in early peaks of
Statements, as in Russian or Neapolitan Italian (d’Imperio 2000; Khromovs-
kich 2003; Rathcke 2006).
The formal means of Confirmation Questions in the languages of the
world are less well known because they have not been clearly separated from
Polarity Questions. They differ from all the other question functions by a
Question Appeal for Confirmation of a Proposition that was made in a
previous Statement by another person, or that is deduced from the commu-
nicative context. Such structurally diverging languages as European languages
and Mandarin Chinese converge in coding this question function by higher
register. It may be hypothesised that this prosodic form is widespread, perhaps
universal, because it is the stimulating function par excellence, which would
use high pitch to get the listener’s attention to respond and conﬁrm.
Under the Question Code, the function-form framework of speech commu-
nication can be further elaborated and extended to a greater variety of lan-
guages. This cross-linguistic function-form analysis may, ﬁrst of all, include
those European and Asian languages where such categories as Focus and Sen-
tence Mode have been studied quite extensively, e.g. Danish, French, Italian,
Spanish, Swedish, Japanese and Korean, albeit only formally and mainly in
isolated read sentences (but see the functional approach to Swedish intonation
by Ambrazaitis (2009)). These data need to be supplemented by data obtained
with new, standardised acquisition techniques that generate tightly contextu-
alised utterances in plausible texts anchored in communicative situations, to
capture the functions under investigation. For example, there are so far no data
available as to how the coding of Confirmation Questions differs from
the pitch markers of Polarity Questions in Russian and Neapolitan Italian,
and how Conclusive and Open Argumentation (cf. 2.8.2, 3.3) are further
differentiated in Statements. Future research will be able to provide a com-
prehensive account of the whole function-form network of Questions and
Statements for these languages.
The comparative study must also include the register tone languages of
Africa, where question coding has been reported to be quite different. Accord-
ing to Rialland (2007), languages of the Sudanic region do not show a high-
pitch link in Questions. Across these languages, various combinations of an
open-vowel question marker, sonorant segment lengthening, delayed falling
intonation and breathy termination occur to signal a Question on the same
syntactic structure as a Statement. The author refers to these property
Universal Prosody Code and Prosodic Typology 287
bundles as a ‘lax prosody’. However, it is not clear what position these questions
have in the framework of Question functions. From their English transla-
tions, most examples appear to be Confirmation Questions as opposed
to Statements, e.g. beans. beans?, a slave. a slave? It is to be expected that
these languages also distinguish the functional categories of Polarity and
Confirmation Questions, and use different prosodic or other means to sig-
nal them. It is still an open question as to what types of Question function
show the divergence from a high-pitch link, and how the different types are
manifested. Furthermore, the coding of the Question function in these African
tone languages shows the importance of analysing acoustic energy, articula-
tory timing and phonation, besides fundamental frequency in the implementa-
tion of communicative functions by speakers, and in their auditory-cognitive
processing by listeners.
The cross-linguistic function-form approach will lead to a new, commu-
nicatively insightful prosodic typology of the world’s languages, and to a
reassessment of postulates of prosodic universals. The theoretical framework
of communicative functions is an important step towards the goal that Her-
mann (1942, p. 390) formulated over seventy years ago for an ‘integral linguis-
tic investigation of the world’s languages’ (‘ganzheitliche Sprachforschung’),
i.e. to assess ‘the distribution of different rhythmic-melodic properties across
the various speech functions and their summation in one and the same func-
tion’ (‘die Verteilung der verschiedenen rhythmisch-melodischen Mittel auf
die verschiedenen Funktionen und ihre Summierung bei ein- und denselben
Funktionen’). This is an enormously complex and never-ending task which
requires continual contributions from many speech scientists committed to
advancing the theoretical and empirical foundations of the study of speech
and language. It takes the analysis of prosody a long way beyond the trodden
paths of phonetic transcription and numerical measurement, and complements
individually, often randomly, selected and frequently unconnected data-driven
research questions with global, systemic and theory-driven investigation of
speech interaction. It remains for the interdisciplinary speech research com-
munity to unite their efforts and converge on continuing progress in Commu-
nicative Phonetic Science.
288
References
Abe, I. (1962). Call contours. Proceedings of the 4th International Congress of
Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), The Hague, pp. 519–23.
Abercrombie, D. (1964). Syllable quantity and enclitics in English. In D.
Abercrombie, D. B. Fry, P. A. D. MacCarthy, N. C. Scott and J. L. M. Trim, eds.,
In Honour of Daniel Jones, London: Longmans, pp. 216–22.
Abraham, W. (2011). Preface: Traces of Karl Bühler’s semiotic legacy in modern
linguistics. In D. F. Goodwin, transl. of Bühler 1934, new edn 2011, Amsterdam:
Benjamins, pp. xiii–xlvii.
Adriaens, L. M. H. (1991). Ein Modell deutscher Intonation, PhD thesis, Eindhoven.
Allen, W. S. (1954). Living English speech, London: Longman.
Ambrazaitis, G. (2005). Between fall and fall-rise: Substance-function relations in
German phrase-ﬁnal intonation contours. Phonetica, 62, 196–214.
(2009). Nuclear intonation in Swedish, PhD thesis, Lund University, Travaux de
l’Institut de Linguistique de Lund 49.
Armstrong, L. E. and Ward, I. C. (1931). A handbook of English intonation, 2nd edn,
Cambridge: W. Heffer.
Austin, J. L. (1962). How to do things with words, Oxford University Press.
Barry, W. J. (1981). Prosodic functions revisited again! Phonetica, 38, 320–40.
Baumann, S. (2006). The intonation of givenness: Evidence from German,
Linguistische Arbeiten 508, Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Bolinger, D. (1978). Intonation across languages. In J. Greenberg (ed.), Universals of
human language, Stanford University Press, pp. 371–425.
(1986). Intonation and its parts: Melody in spoken English, London: Edward
Arnold.
(1989). Intonation and its uses: Melody in grammar and discourse, London:
Edward Arnold.
Brazil, D. (1975). Discourse intonation, Discourse Analysis Monographs No. 1, ELR,
Birmingham University.
(1978). Discourse intonation II, Discourse Analysis Monographs No. 2, ELR,
Birmingham University.
Bruce, G. (1977). Swedish word accents in sentence perspective, Travaux de l’Institut
de Linguistique de Lund XIII, Greerup: CWK.
Bryzgunova, E. A. (1977). Zvuki i intonatsija russkoj retshi [Sounds and intonation of
the Russian language], Moscow: Russkij jazyk.
(1980). Intonatsija [Intonation]. In N. J. Shviedova, ed., Russkaja grammatika,
vol. I, Moscow: Akademiia Nauka SSSR, pp. 96–122.
References 289
(1984). Emotsionaljno-stilistitsheskije razlitshija russkoj zvutshashjej retshi
[Emotional and stylistic differences in Russian spontaneous speech] Moscow.
Bühler, K. (1931). Phonetik und Phonologie. Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de
Prague, 4, 22–53.
(1934). Sprachtheorie: Die Darstellungsfunktion der Sprache, Jena: Gustav
Fischer. English transl. by D. F. Goodwin (1990). Theory of language: The
representational function of language, Amsterdam: Benjamins. New edn 2011,
including Abraham (2011).
Catford, J. (1964). Phonation types: The classiﬁcation of some laryngeal components
of speech production. In D. Abercrombie, D. B. Fry, P. A. D. MacCarthy, N. C.
Scott and J. L. M. Trim, eds., In honour of Daniel Jones, London: Longman,
pp. 26–37.
Chomsky, N. (1957). Syntactic structures, The Hague: Mouton.
(1965). Aspects of the theory of syntax, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. and Halle, M. (1968). The sound pattern of English, New York,
Evanston, London: Harper and Row.
Clark, H. (1996). Using language, Cambridge University Press.
Cohen, A. and ’t Hart, J. (1967). On the anatomy of intonation. Lingua, 19, 177–92.
Coleman, H. O. (1914). Intonation and emphasis. Miscellanea Phonetica, 1, 7–26.
Coustenoble, H. N. and Armstrong, L. E. (1934). Studies in French intonation,
Cambridge: W. Heffer.
Cruttenden, A. (1974). An experiment involving comprehension of intonation in
children from 7 to 10. Journal of Child Language, 1, 221–32.
(1986, 2nd edn, 1997). Intonation, Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics,
Cambridge University Press.
(1995). Rises in English. In J. Windsor Lewis, ed., Studies in general and English
phonetics: Essays in honour of Professor J. D. O’Connor, Albingdon: Routledge,
pp. 155–73.
(1997). Intonation, Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics, 2nd edn, Cambridge
University Press.
Crystal, D. (1969a). Prosodic systems and intonation in English, Cambridge Studies
in Linguistics, Cambridge University Press.
(1969b). Review of Halliday (1967). Language, 45, 378–93.
Dehé, N. and Braun, B. (2013). The prosody of question tags in English. English
Language and Linguistics, 17, 129–56.
Delattre, P. (1948). Le Jeu de l’e instable de monosyllabe initiale en français. I. The
French Review, 22, 455–9.
(1949). Le Jeu de l’e instable de monosyllabe initiale en français. II. The French
Review, 23, 43–7.
(1951). Le jeu de l’e instable intérieur en français. The French Review, 24, 341–51.
(1966). Studies in French and comparative phonetics, The Hague: Mouton.
Di Cristo, A. (1998). Intonation in French. In D. Hirst, A. Di Cristo, eds., Intonation
systems: A survey of twenty languages, Cambridge University Press,
pp. 195–218.
d’Imperio, M. (2000). The role of perception in deﬁning tonal targets and their
alignment, PhD thesis, Ohio State University.
290 References
Dombrowski, E. (2003). Semantic features of accent contours: Effects of F0 peak
position and F0 time shape. Proceedings of the 15th International Congress of
Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Barcelona, pp. 1217–20.
(2013). Semantic features of ‘stepped’ versus ‘continuous’ contours in German
intonation. Phonetica, 70:4, 247–73.
Dombrowski, E. and Niebuhr, O. (2005). Acoustic patterns and communicative
functions of phrase-ﬁnal rises in German: Activating and restricting contours.
Phonetica, 62, 176–95.
(2010). Shaping phrase-ﬁnal rising intonation in German. Proceedings of the 5th
International Conference on Speech Prosody, Chicago, pp. 1–4.
Draper, M., Ladefoged, P. and Whitteridge, D. (1959). Respiratory muscles in speech.
Journal of Speech and Hearing Research, 2, 16–27.
(1960). Expiratory pressures and airﬂow during speech. British Medical Journal,
1837–43.
Dryer, M. S. (2013). Position of interrogative phrases in content questions. In M.
Haspelmath, M. S. Dryer, D. Gil and B. Comrie, eds., The world atlas of
language structures online, Leipzig: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology. (Available online at http://wals.info/chapter/93)
Essen, O. von (1964). Grundzüge der hochdeutschen Satzintonation, Ratingen: A.
Hen-n Verlag.
Fagyal, Z. (1997). Chanting intonation in French. University of Pennsylvania Working
Papers in Linguistics, 47, 77–90.
Fant, G. and Kruckenberg, A. (1989). Preliminaries to the study of Swedish prose
reading and reading style. STL-QPSR, 2, 1–80.
(1999). Prominence correlates in Swedish prosody. Proceedings of the 14th
International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), San Francisco,
pp. 1749–52.
Féry, C. and Kügler, F. (2008). Pitch accent scaling on given, new and focused
constituents in German. Journal of Phonetics, 36, 680–703.
Firth, J. R. (1948). Sounds and prosodies. Transactions of the Philological Society,
127–52.
(1957). Papers in Linguistics 1934–1951, Oxford University Press.
Fletcher, J. and Harrington, J. (2001). High rising terminals and fall-rise tunes in
Australian English. Phonetica, 58, 215–29.
Fletcher, J., Stirling, L., Mushin, I. and Wales, R. (2002). Intonational rises and dialog
acts in the Australian English map task. Language and Speech, 45, 229–53.
Fónagy, I. (2003). Des Fonctions de l’intonation: Essai de synthèse. Flambeau, Revue
Annuelle de la Section Française, Université des Langues Étrangères de Tokyo,
29, 1–20.
Fónagy, I., Bérard, E. and Fónagy, J. (1983). Les Clichés mélodiques du français
parisien. Folia Linguistica, 17, 153–85.
Fries, C. C. (1964). On the intonation of ‘yes-no’, questions in English. In D.
Abercrombie, D. B. Fry, P. A. D. MacCarthy, N. C. Scott and J. L. M. Trim, eds.,
In Honour of Daniel Jones, London: Longman, pp. 242–54.
Fry, D. B. (1955). Duration and intensity as physical correlates of linguistic stress.
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 27, 765–8.
References 291
(1958). Experiments in the perception of stress. Language and Speech, 1, 126–52.
(1965). The dependence of stress judgments on vowel formant structure. In E.
Zwirner and W. Bethge, Proceedings of the 6th International Congress of
Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Basle, pp. 306–11.
Gardiner, A. (1932). The theory of speech and language, Oxford University Press.
Gårding, E. (1979). Sentence intonation in Swedish. Phonetica, 36, 207–15.
(1982). Swedish prosody: Summary of a project. Phonetica, 39, 288–301.
Gårding, E., Kratochvil, P., Svantesson, J.-O. and Zhang, Z. (1985). Tone 4 and tone
3 discrimination in Modern Standard Chinese. Working Papers, Department of
Linguistics, Lund University, 28, 53–67.
Gartenberg, R. and Panzlaff-Reuter, C. (1991). Production and perception of F0 peak
patterns in German. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der Universität
Kiel (AIPUK), 25, 29–113.
Garvin, P. L. (1994). Karl Bühler’s ﬁeld theory in the light of the current interest
in pragmatics. In S. Čmejrková and F. Štícha, eds., The syntax of sentence
and text: A Festschrift for František Daneš, Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 59–66.
Gibbon, D. (1976). Perspectives of intonation analysis, Frankfurt a. M.: Peter Lang.
(1998). Intonation in German. In D. Hirst and A. Di Cristo, eds., Intonation
systems: A survey of twenty languages, Cambridge University Press, pp. 78–95.
Ginzburg, J. (2012). The interactive stance: Meaning for conversation, Oxford
University Press.
Grabe, E. (1998). Comparative intonational phonology: English and German, PhD
thesis, University of Nijmegen.
Grabe, E., Gussenhoven, C., Haan, J., Marsi, E. and Post B. (1997). Preaccentual pitch
and speaker attitude in Dutch. Language and Speech, 41, 63–85.
Grammont, M. (1894). La Loi des trois consonnes. Bulletin de la Société de
Linguistique de Paris, 8, 53–90.
(1934). La Prononciation française, 8th edn, Paris: Librairie Delagrave.
Gregoromichelaki, E. (2013). Review of Ginzburg (2012). The interactive stance.
Folia Linguistica, 47, 293–306.
Grice, H. P. (1957). Meaning. Philosophical Review, 66, 377–88.
(1995). Leading tones and downstep in English. Phonology, 12, 183–233.
Grice, M. and Baumann, S. (2002). Deutsche Intonation und GToBI. Linguistische
Berichte, 191, 267–98.
Grice, M., Baumann, S. and Benzmüller, R. (2005). German intonation in
autosegmental-metrical phonology. In S.-A. Jun, ed., Prosodic typology: The
phonology of intonation and phrasing, Oxford University Press, pp. 55–83.
Gussenhoven, C. (1993). The Dutch foot and the chanted call. Journal of Linguistics,
29, 37–63.
(2002). Intonation and interpretation: Phonetics and phonology. Proceedings of the
First International Conference on Speech Prosody, Aix-en-Provence, 47–57.
(2004). The phonology of tone and intonation, Research Surveys in Linguistics,
Cambridge University Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1961). Categories of the theory of grammar. Word, 17, 241–92.
(1963a). The tones of English. Archivum Linguisticum, 15, 1–28.
292 References
(1963b). Intonation in English grammar. Transactions of the Philological Society,
pp. 143–69.
(1967). Intonation and grammar in British English, The Hague: Mouton.
(1970). A course in spoken English: Intonation, Oxford University Press.
Halliday, M. A. K. and Greaves, W. S. (2008). Intonation in the grammar of English,
London, Oakville, Conn.: Equinox.
Harris, Z. S. (1951). Methods in structural linguistics, University of Chicago Press
(repr. as Structural Linguistics, University of Chicago Press, 1960).
Hasan, R. (2009). Wanted: A theory of integrated sociolinguistics. In J. J.
Webster, ed., Collected Works of Ruqaiya Hasan, vol. II, Shefﬁeld: Equinox,
pp. 5–40.
Hawkins, S. (2003). Roles and representations of systematic ﬁne phonetic detail in
speech understanding. Journal of Phonetics, 31, 373–405.
Hermann, E. (1942). Probleme der Frage. Nachrichten der Akademie der
Wissenschaften in Göttingen, Philologisch-Historische Klasse, 2–4, 121–408.
Hertrich, I. (1991). The interaction of intonation and accent at the sentence level:
Potential perceptual ambiguities. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der
Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 25, 187–218.
Hirschberg, J. and Ward, G. (1992). The inﬂuence of pitch range, duration, amplitude
and spectral features on the interpretation of the rise-fall-rise intonation contour
in English. Journal of Phonetics, 20, 241–51.
Hughes. G. (1998). Swearing: A social history of foul language, oaths and profanity in
English, Harmondsworth: Penguin Books Ltd.
IPDS (1994). The Kiel corpus of read speech, vol. I, CD-ROM#1, Kiel: IPDS.
(1995). The Kiel corpus of spontaneous speech, vol. I, CDROM#2, Kiel: IPDS.
(1996). The Kiel corpus of spontaneous speech, vol. II, CDROM#3, Kiel: IPDS.
(1997). The Kiel corpus of spontaneous speech, vol. III, CDROM#4, Kiel: IPDS.
(2006). The Kiel corpus of spontaneous speech, vol. IV, Video Task Scenario:
Lindenstrasse, DVD#1. Kiel: IPDS.
Isačenko, A. V. (1966). On the conative function of language. In J. Vachek, ed., A
Prague School reader in linguistics, Bloomington, London: Indiana University
Press, pp. 88–97.
Isačenko, A. V. and Schädlich, H. J. (1970). A model of standard German intonation,
The Hague: Mouton.
Jakobson, R. (1960). Linguistics and poetics. In T. A. Sebeok, ed., Styles in language,
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, pp. 350–77.
Jia, Y. (2012). Phonetic realization and phonological analysis of focus in Standard
Chinese, Beijing: China Social Sciences Press.
Jones, D. (1956). An outline of English phonetics, 8th edn, Cambridge: W. Heffer.
Jun, S.-A. and Fougeron, C. (2002). The realizations of the accentual phrase in French
intonation. In J. I. Hualde, ed., Special issue on intonation in the Romance
languages, Probus, 14: 147–72.
Kamp, H. and Reyle, U. (1993). From discourse to logic, vol. I, Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kamp, H., Genabith, J. van and Reyle, U. (2011). Discourse representation theory: An
updated survey. In D. Gabbay, ed., Handbook of Philosophical Logic, 2nd edn,
vol. XV, pp. 125–394.
References 293
Khromovskikh, T. (2003). Perzeptorische Untersuchungen zur Intonation der Frage
im Russischen [A perceptual study of question intonation in Russian], MA
dissertation, University of Kiel.
Kingdon, R. (1958). The groundwork of English intonation, London: Longman.
(1965). The groundwork of English stress, 3rd edn, London: Longman.
Kleber, F. (2005). Experimentalphonetische Untersuchungen zu Form und
Funktion fallender Intonationskonturen im Englischen [Form and function of
falling intonation contours in English: An experimental phonetic study], MA
dissertation, University of Kiel.
(2006). Form and function of falling pitch contours in English. Proceedings of
Speech Prosody, Dresden, 61–4. (English summary of Kleber 2005.)
Kohler, K. J. (1970). Etymologie und strukturelle Sprachbetrachtung.
Indogermanische Forschungen, 75, 16–31.
(1977, 2nd edn 1995). Einführung in die Phonetik des Deutschen, Berlin: Erich
Schmidt Verlag.
(1978). Englische ‘Question Tags’ und ihre deutschen Entsprechungen. Arbeits-
berichte des Instituts für Phonetik der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 10, 60–77.
(1979). Kommunikative Aspekte satzphonetischer Prozesse im Deutschen. In H.
Vater, ed., Phonologische Probleme des Deutschen, Tübingen: G. Narr,
pp. 13–39.
(1987a). The linguistic functions of F0 peaks. Proceedings of the 11th
International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Tallinn, vol. III,
pp. 149–62.
(1987b). Categorical pitch perception. Proceedings of the 11th International
Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Tallinn, vol. V, pp. 331–3.
(1990a). Macro and micro F0 in the synthesis of intonation. In J. Kingston and
M. E. Beckman, eds., Papers in Laboratory Phonology I. Cambridge University
Press, pp. 115–38.
(1990b). Segmental reduction in connected speech in German: Phonological
facts and phonetic explanations. In W. J. Hardcastle and A. Marchal (eds.),
Speech Production and Speech Modelling, Dordrecht, Boston, London: Kluwer
Academic Publishers, pp. 69–92.
(1991a). Terminal intonation patterns in single-accent utterances of German:
Phonetics, phonology and semantics. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik
der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 25, 115–85.
(1991b). A model of German intonation. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik
der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 25, 295–360.
ed. (1991c). Studies in German intonation. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für
Phonetik der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 25, 1–368.
(1995). The Kiel Intonation Model (KIM), its implementation in TTS synthesis
and its application to the study of spontaneous speech. www.ipds.uni-kiel.de/kjk/
forschung/kim.en.html
(1997a). Parametric control of prosodic variables by symbolic input in TTS
synthesis. In J. P. H. van Santen, R. W. Sproat, J. P. Olive and J. Hirschberg,
eds., Progress in Speech Synthesis, New York: Springer, pp. 459–75.
294 References
(1997b). Modelling prosody in spontaneous speech. In Y. Sagisaka, N. Campbell
and N. Higuchi, eds., Computing prosody: Computational models for processing
spontaneous speech, New York: Springer, pp. 187–210.
(1999). Articulatory prosodies in German reduced speech. Proceedings of the 14th
International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), San Francisco, vol. I,
pp. 89–92.
(2001a). The investigation of connected speech processes: Theory, method,
hypotheses and empirical data. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der
Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 35, 1–32.
(2001b). Variability of closing and opening gestures in speech communication.
Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 35,
33–96.
(2001c). Articulatory dynamics of vowels and consonants in speech
communication. Journal of the International Phonetic Association, 31, 1–16.
(2002). Phrase-level sound structures in French. In W. J. Barry and M. Pützer,
eds., Festschrift für Max Mangold zum 80. Geburtstag, Reports in Phonetics,
University of the Saarland (PHONUS), No. 6, University of the Saarland,
pp. 129–57.
(2003). Domains of temporal control in speech and language: From utterance to
segment. Proceedings of the 15th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences
(ICPhS), Barcelona, vol. I, pp. 7–10.
(2004). Pragmatic and attitudinal meanings of pitch patterns in German
syntactically marked questions. In G. Fant, H. Fujisaki, J. Cao and Y. Xu,
eds., From traditional phonology to modern speech processing: Festschrift for
Professor Wu Zongji’s 95th birthday, Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and
Research Press, pp. 205–14.
(2005). Timing and communicative functions of pitch contours. Phonetica, 62,
88–105.
(2006a). What is emphasis and how is it coded? In R. Hoffmann and H. Mixdorff,
eds., Proceedings of Speech Prosody, Dresden: TUD Press, pp. 748–51. ppt
presentation www.ipds.uni-kiel.de/kjk/pub_exx/kk2006_2/sp2006.zip; audio ﬁles
www.ipds.uni-kiel.de/kjk/pub_exx/kk2006_2/sp2006.html
(2006b). Paradigms in experimental prosodic analysis: From measurement to
function. In S. Sudhoff, D. Lenertová, R. Meyer, S. Pappert, P. Augurzky,
I. Mleinek, N. Richter and J. Schließer, eds., Methods in empirical prosody
research, Berlin, New York: de Gruyter, pp. 123–52.
(2007). Review of A. Dufter, Typen sprachrhythmischer Konturbildung. Tübingen:
Max Niemeyer Verlag. Studies in Language, 7, 873–84.
(2008). The perception of prominence patterns. Phonetica, 65, 257–69.
(2009a). Rhythm in speech and language. Phonetica, 66, 29–45.
(2009b). Patterns of prosody in the expression of the speaker and the appeal to
the listener. In G. Fant, H. Fujisaki and J. Shen, eds., Frontiers in phonetics and
speech science, Beijing: The Commercial Press, pp. 287–302.
(2010). The transmission of meaning by prosodic phrasing: A comparison
of French with English and German, using no Ls and Hs. Phonetica, 67,
100–24.
References 295
(2011a). On the interdependence of sounds and prosodies in communicative
functions. Proceedings of the 17th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences
(ICPhS), Hong Kong, pp. 19–27.
(2011b). Communicative functions integrate segments in prosodies and prosodies
in segments. Phonetica, 68, 25–56.
(2012). The perception of lexical stress in German: Effects of segmental duration
and vowel quality in different prosodic patterns. Phonetica, 69, 68–93.
(2013a). Review of Ladd (2011), From phonetics to phonology and back again.
Phonetica, 69, 254–73.
(2013b). From communicative functions to prosodic forms. Phonetica, 70,
1–23.
(2011). On the role of articulatory prosodies in German message decoding.
Phonetica, 68, 57–87.
Kohler, K. J., Kleber, F. and Peters, B., eds. (2005). Prosodic structures in German
spontaneous speech. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der Universität
Kiel (AIPUK), 35a, 1–345.
Kohler, K. J. and Niebuhr, O. (2007). The phonetics of emphasis. Proceedings of
the 16th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Saarbrücken,
pp. 2145–8.
Kohler, K. J, Pätzold, M. and Simpson, A. (1995). From scenario to segment: The
controlled elicitation, transcription, segmentation and labeling of spontaneous
speech. Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der Universität Kiel (AIPUK),
29, 1–141.
Kohler, K. J., Peters, B. and Scheffers, M. (2017a). The Kiel corpus of spoken German
– read and spontaneous speech. New edn, revised and enlarged. Data. Kiel:
Christian-Albrechts-Universität. www.isfas.uni-kiel.de/de/linguistik/forschung/
kiel-corpus
(2017b). The Kiel corpus of spoken German – read and spontaneous speech.
New edn, revised and enlarged. Documentation. Kiel: Christian-Albrechts-
Universität. www.isfas.uni-kiel.de/de/linguistik/forschung/kiel-corpus/docs/
Info_KielCorp_2017.pdf
Ladd. D. R. (1978). Stylized intonation. Language, 54, 517–38.
(1983). Phonological features of intonational peaks. Language, 59, 721–59.
(1996, 2nd edn 2008). Intonational phonology, Cambridge University Press.
(2011). Phonetics in phonology. In J. Goldsmith, J. Riggle and A. C. L. Yu, eds.,
The handbook of phonological theory, 2nd edn, Wiley-Blackwell: Chichester,
pp. 348–73.
Ladefoged, P. (1960). The regulation of subglottal pressure. Folia Phoniatrica, 12,
169–75.
Ladefoged, P., Draper, M. and Whitteridge, D. (1958). Syllables and stress.
Miscellanea Phonetica, 3, 1–14, London: International Phonetic Association.
Laver, J. (1980). The phonetic description of voice quality, Cambridge University
Press.
Lee, W. R. (1956). Fall-rise intonations in English. English Studies, 37, 62–72.
Lees, R.B. (1961). The phonology of Modern Standard Turkish, Bloomington: Indiana
University Press.
296 References
Léon, P. (1966). Apparition, maintien et chute du ‘e’ caduc. La Linguistique, 2,
111–22.
Liberman, M. (1975). The intonational system of English, PhD thesis, MIT, Indiana
University Linguistic Club, Bloomington.
Liberman, M. and Pierrehumbert, J. (1984). Intonational invariance under changes
in pitch range and length. In M. Aronoff and R. Oehrle, eds., Language sound
structure, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, pp. 157–233.
Liberman, M. and Prince, A. (1977). On stress and linguistic rhythm. Linguistic
Inquiry, 8, 249–336.
Lindblom, B. (1990). Explaining phonetic variation: A sketch of the H&H theory.
In W. J. Hardcastle and A. Marchal, eds., Speech production and speech
modelling, Dordrecht, Boston, London: Kluwer Academic Publishers,
pp. 403–39.
Liu, F. (2009). Intonation systems of Mandarin and English: A functional approach,
PhD thesis, University of Chicago.
Liu, F. and Xu, Y. (2005). Parallel encoding of focus and interrogative meaning in
Mandarin. Phonetica, 62, 70–87.
Local, J. and Walker, G. (2005). Methodological imperatives for investigating the
phonetic organization and phonological structures of spontaneous speech.
Phonetica, 62, 120–30.
Lyons, J. (1968). Introduction to theoretical linguistics, Cambridge University Press.
Malécot, A.(1976). The effect of linguistic and paralinguistic variables on the elision
of the French mute-e. Phonetica, 33, 93–112.
Malinowski, B. (1923). The problem of meaning in primitive languages. In C. K.
Ogden and I. A. Richards, eds., The meaning of meaning, London: Routledge,
pp. 146–52.
Mathesius, V. (1966). Verstärkung und Emphase. In J. Vachek, A Prague School
reader in linguistics, Bloomington, London: Indiana University Press,
pp. 426–32.
Niebuhr, O. (2003a). Perzeptorische Untersuchungen zu Zeitvariablen in
Grundfrequenzgipfeln [Perceptual investigations of timing variables in pitch
peak contours], MA dissertation, University of Kiel.
(2003b). Perceptual study of timing variables in F0 peaks. Proceedings of the 15th
International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Barcelona, pp. 1225–8.
(English summary of Niebuhr 2003a.)
(2007a). Perzeption und kognitive Verarbeitung der Sprechmelodie: Theoretische
Grundlagen und empirische Untersuchungen [Perception and cognitive
processing of speech melody: Theoretical foundations and empirical
investigations]. In A. Steube, ed., Language, Context, and Cognition, vol. VII,
Berlin: de Gruyter.
(2007b). The signalling of German rising-falling intonation categories: The
interplay of synchronization, shape, and height. Phonetica, 64, 174–91. (English
summary of Niebuhr 2003a, 2007a.)
(2008). Coding of intonational meanings beyond F0: Evidence from utterance-
ﬁnal /t/ aspiration in German. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 124,
1252–63.
References 297
(2010). On the phonetics of intensifying emphasis in German. Phonetica, 67,
170–98.
ed. (2012). Understanding prosody: The role of context, function and
communication, Berlin, Boston: de Gruyter.
(2013). Resistance is futile: The intonation between continuation rise and calling
contour in German. Proceedings of the 14th Interspeech Conference, Lyons,
225–9.
Niebuhr, O. and Kohler, K. J. (2004). Perception and cognitive processing of tonal
alignment in German. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Tonal
Aspects of Languages. Emphasis on Tone Languages, Beijing: The Institute of
Linguistics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, 155–8.
(2011). Perception of phonetic detail in the identiﬁcation of highly reduced words.
Journal of Phonetics, 39, 319–29.
Niebuhr, O., d’Imperio, M., Gili Fivela, B. and Cangemi, F. (2011). Are there
‘shapers’ and ‘aligners’? Individual differences in signalling pitch accent
category. Proceedings of the 17th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences
(ICPhS), Hong Kong, pp. 120–3.
O’Connor, J. D. (1955). The intonation of tag questions in English. English Studies,
36, 97–105.
O’Connor, J. D. and Arnold, G. F. (1961). Intonation of colloquial English, London:
Longman.
Ogden, C. K. and Richards, I. A. (1956). The meaning of meaning, International
Library of Psychology Philosophy and Scientiﬁc Method, London: Routledge
and Kegan Paul.
Ogden, R. (2012). Making sense of outliers. Phonetica, 69, 48–67.
Ohala, J. (1983). Cross-language use of pitch: An ethological view. Phonetica, 40,
1–18.
(1984). An ethological perspective on common cross-language utilization of F0 of
voice. Phonetica, 41, 1–16.
Osgood, C. E., Suci, G. J. and Tannenbaum, P. H. (1957). The measurement of
meaning, Urbana, Chicago, London: University of Illinois Press.
Palmer, H. E. (1924). English intonation with systematic exercises, 2nd edn,
Cambridge: W. Heffer.
Palmer, H. E. and Blandford, F. G. (1939). A grammar of spoken English, 2nd edn,
Cambridge: W. Heffer.
Panconcelli-Calzia, G. (1948). Phonetik als Naturwissenschaft, Berlin:
Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft.
Passy, P. (1890). Étude sur les changements phonétiques et leurs caractères généraux,
Paris: Firmin-Didot.
Passy, J. and Rambeau, A. (1918). Chrestomathie française, Leipzig, Berlin: B. G.
Teubner.
Peters, B. (2001). ‘Video Task’ oder ‘Daily Soap Szenario’: Ein neues Verfahren zur
kontrollierten Elizitation von Spontansprache. www.ipds.uni-kiel.de/pub_exx/
bp2001_1/Linda21.html
(2006). Form und Funktion prosodischer Grenzen im Gespräch [Form and function
of prosodic phrasing in conversation], PhD thesis, University of Kiel.
298 References
Pheby, J. (1975). Intonation und Grammatik im Deutschen, Berlin: Akademie-Verlag.
Pierrehumbert, J. (1980). The phonology and phonetics of English intonation, PhD
thesis, MIT.
Pierrehumbert, J. and Hirschberg, J. (1990). The meaning pf intonational contours
in the interpretation of discourse. In P. R. Cohen, J. Morgan and M. E. Pollack,
eds., Intentions in Communication, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, pp. 271–311.
Pierrehumbert, J. and Steele, S. A. (1987). How many rise-fall-rise contours?
Proceedings of the 11th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS),
Tallinn, vol. III, pp. 145–8.
(1989). Categories of tonal alignment in English. Phonetica, 46, 181–96.
Pike, K. L. (1945). The intonation of American English. Ann Arbor: University of
Michigan Press.
Rathcke, T. V.(2006). A perceptual study on Russian questions and statements.
Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für Phonetik der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 37,
51–62. (English summary of Khromovskikh 2005.)
Repp, B. H. (1984). Categorical perception, issues, methods, ﬁndings. In N. J. Lass,
ed., Speech and language: Advances in basic research and practice, vol. X,
Academic Press: Orlando, pp. 244–335.
Rialland, A. (2007). Question prosody: An African perspective. In C. Gussenhoven
and C. Riad, eds., Tones and tunes: Studies in word and sentence prosody, Berlin:
De Gruyter, pp. 35–62.
Rousselot, l’Abbé P. J. (1892). Les Modiﬁcations du langage, étudiées dans le patois
d’une famille de Cellefrouin Charante, Paris: H. Walter.
(1897–1901). Principes de phonétique expérimentale, Paris: H. Walter.
Saussure, F. de (1922). Cours de linguistique générale, ed. Ch. Bally and A.
Sechehaye, Paris: Payot.
Schäfer-Vincent, K. (1982). Signiﬁcant points: Pitch period detection as a problem of
segmentation. Phonetica, 39, 241–53.
(1983). Pitch period detection and chaining: Method and evaluation. Phonetica, 40,
177–202.
Scheffers, M. and Rettstadt, T. (1997). xassp: User’s manual (Advanced Speech
Signal Processor under the X Window system). Arbeitsberichte des Instituts für
Phonetik der Universität Kiel (AIPUK), 32, 31–115. version 1.3.8 May 2000:
www.ipds.uni-kiel.de/kjk/pub_exx/aipuk32/xassp_manual.pdf
Schegloff, E., Jefferson G. and Sacks, H. (1977). The preference for self-correction in
the organization of repair in conversation. Language, 53, 361–82.
Schubiger, M. (1958). English intonation, Tübingen: Max Niemeyer.
Scripture, E. W. (1902). The elements of experimental phonetics, New York:
Scribner’s Sons/London: Arnold.
(1935). Bulletin of the International Society of Experimental Phonetics III.
Archives Néerlandaises de Phonétique Expérimentale, 11, 133–47.
Searle, J. R. (1969). Speech acts, Cambridge University Press.
Selting, M. (1995). Prosodie im Gespräch, Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Sharp, A. L. (1958). Falling-rising intonation patterns in English. Phonetica, 2,
127–52.
References 299
’t Hart, J. (1998). Intonation in Dutch. In D. Hirst and A. Di Cristo, eds., Intonation
systems: A survey of twenty languages, Cambridge University Press, pp. 96–111.
’t Hart, J., Collier, R. and Cohen, A. (1990). A perceptual study of intonation: An
experimental-phonetic approach to speech melody, Cambridge University Press.
Trojan, F., Tembrock, G. and Schendl, H. (1975). Biophonetik, Mannheim, Vienna,
Zürich: Bibliographisches Institut.
Trubetzkoy, N. S. (1939). Grundzüge der Phonologie, Göttingen: Vandenhoeck and
Ruprecht (3rd edn 1962).
Truckenbrodt, H. (2002). Upstep and embedded register levels. Phonology, 19,
77–120.
Uldall, E. (1960). Attitudinal meanings conveyed by intonation contours. Language
and Speech, 3, 223–4.
(1964). Dimensions of meaning in intonation. In D. Abercrombie, D. Fry, P.
MacCarthy, N. Scott and J. L. Trim, eds., In Honour of Daniel Jones. London:
Longman, pp. 271–9.
Vaihinger, H. (1920). Die Philosophie des Als Ob, Leipzig: Felix Meiner. English
transl. by C. K. Ogden (1935). The philosophy of ‘as if’, International Library of
Psychology Philosophy and Scientiﬁc Method, London: Routledge and Kegan
Paul.
Vaissière, J. (2006). La Phonétique, Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Voegelin, C. F. and Ellinghausen, M. E. (1943). Turkish structure. Journal of the
American Oriental Society, 63, 34–65.
Wagner, P. (2002). Vorhersage und Wahrnehmung deutscher Betonungsmuster, PhD
thesis, University of Bonn.
Ward, G. and Hirschberg, J. (1985). Implicating uncertainty. Language, 61, 747–76.
Waterson, N. (1956). Some aspects of the phonology of the nominal forms of the
Turkish word. In Honour of J. R. Firth, Bulletin of the School of Oriental and
African Studies, 18, 578–91.
Wegener, Ph. (1885). Untersuchungen über die Grundfragen des Sprachlebens, Halle:
Max Niemeyer.
Wells, J. C. (2006). English intonation: An introduction, Cambridge University Press.
Wichmann, A. (2004). The intonation of please-requests: A corpus-based study.
Journal of Pragmatics, 36, 1521–49.
Xu, Y. (1999). Effects of tone and focus on the formation and alignment of F0
contours. Journal of Phonetics, 27, 55–105.
Xu, Y. and Liu. F. (2012). Intrinsic coherence of prosodic and segmental aspects of
speech. In Niebuhr, (2012), pp. 1–25.
Xu, Y. and Xu, C. X. (2005). Phonetic realization of focus in English declarative
intonation. Journal of Phonetics, 33, 159–97.
Zwirner, E. and K. (1936, 2nd edn 1966). Grundfragen der Phonometrie. Basle:
Karger.
300
accent. See sentence accent; pitch accent;
phrase accent
accent d’insistance (in French), 80, 160
advertising, 31, 165
alignment, phonetic, 48, 51, 61, 66–67, 104,
126, 150. See also synchronisation,
phonological
apology, 165, 184, 196, 252
appeal. See linguistic sign, functions of
appeal functions
deixis appeal, 26, 188, 189–92, 202–3,
204
question appeal, 26, 37, 204–8, 247, 249,
279, 280, 282, 285, 286. See also
questions
request and command appeals, 189,
195–252
argumentation, 104, 108, 115, 119, 120, 124,
147, 154, 181–84, 232, 233, 267–72,
280, 286. See also F0 peaks
attitudes, 19, 69, 146, 189, 196, 233, 234, 252,
262, 284
authority_subordination, 4, 193, 215, 254,
259–65
Autosegmental Metrical (AM) Phonology, 1,
61–66
authors
Baumann, Stefan, 176
d’Imperio, Mariapaola, 121, 139
Grice, Martine, 106, 108
Hirschberg, Julia, 62, 63, 67
Liberman, Mark, 1, 71, 79, 95, 151, 176
Pierrehumbert, Janet, 1, 61, 62, 66, 151,
176
Prince, Alan, 71, 95
Ward, Gregory, 62, 63, 67
edge tones_phrase accent_boundary tone,
48–49, 52, 61–66, 105–8, 159, 174
metrical grid, 71, 74, 96
pitch accent, 48–49, 61–66, 95, 105–8,
160, 174
backgrounding. See functional scaling
Bolinger, Dwight, 2, 46, 96, 195, 199, 239,
240, 244, 285
boundary tone. See Autosegmental Metrical
(AM) Phonology
Bühler, Karl, 2, 3, 9–11, 19–25, 28, 29–33,
38, 42, 164
calling contour, 151, 153, 155, 192–93, 202,
203
categorical perception (F0 patterns), 133,
141
category perception, 132, 182
channels, articulatory-auditory gestural-visual,
18, 20, 42, 164, 165, 192
chant, 151–53, 202, 203
Chomsky, Noam, 41, 96. See also Generative
Grammar
command. See appeal functions
communication, ﬁelds of, 9, 23
deictic, 10, 11, 23–28, 195, 203, 204
symbolic, 10, 23, 25, 29, 164, 166, 195, 203
sympractical, 7, 26, 27, 29, 34, 69, 188,
197, 198, 200, 201, 204
synsemantic, 23, 25, 27, 29, 34, 69, 164,
188, 197, 204
Communicative Phonetic Science, 4–9, 265,
271
compound, lexical, 94, 96, 158, 160, 169,
170, 179
compound, tonal, 57, 64
concave_convex rises. See timing in speech;
timing of F0 patterns; internal F0 tim-
ing; concave_convex rises in valleys
Index
Index 301
conﬁrmation question. See questions
continuation rise, 55, 167, 172, 173
contrast. See argumentation; F0 peaks
Conversation Analysis, 6, 35, 215
declarative form, 40, 42, 43, 47, 165, 166–70,
183, 189, 205, 206, 207, 218, 219, 224,
225, 231, 232–37, 238–48, 252, 253,
260, 274, 281, 285
declination. See sentence accent: declination_
downstep_upstep
deictic ﬁeld. See communication, ﬁelds of
deixis, 10, 24, 26, 28, 38, 151, 201
here or hic deixis, 24–25, 192
there_yonder or illic deixis, 26–27
where-you-are or istic deixis, 13, 25–26,
153, 155, 188, 189, 192, 195
deixis appeal. See appeal functions
Discourse Representation Theory, 34–35
discrimination tests, 113, 114, 115–19, 120,
122, 126, 127, 128, 130, 131, 132, 134
downstep. See sentence accent:
declination_downstep_upstep
e caduc (in French), 161–62
early peak. See F0 peaks
early valley. See F0 valleys
echo question, 205
edge tones. See Autosegmental Metrical (AM)
Phonology
elaboration. See formal scaling
ellipsis, 27, 48, 165, 189, 219, 243, 282–83
emphasis, 30, 47
Essen, Otto von, 55, 208
exclamation, 176, 233, 234, 238, 239, 242,
243, 249, 251, 260, 261
expression. See linguistic sign, functions of
expressive evaluation, 254, 255, 256, 264,
271
low_high key, 30, 160, 176, 177, 180, 181,
254, 255, 256–61, 265, 272, 279
intensiﬁcation, emotive negative_
positive, 254, 255, 256, 262
reinforcement, argumentative, 254, 255,
256, 257, 262, 266
F0 fall+rise_fall-rise, 48–54, 61–68, 107, 135,
272. See also F0 peak-valleys
associative_dissociative, 51, 53, 62, 63, 64,
65, 68, 184
F0 peaks, 15–16, 102–5, 108–12. See also
argumentation
early ﬁnality, 97, 108, 109, 110–13,
119–21, 124, 125, 130, 149, 154, 182,
211, 212, 213, 214, 221, 222, 226,
227, 268
late unexpectedness, 108, 109, 119, 149,
182, 214, 221, 222, 226, 228, 239, 242,
262, 268, 269
medial openness, 107, 108, 109, 110–13,
119–21, 124, 125, 128, 154, 182, 211,
212, 213, 214, 221, 222, 226, 228, 229,
230, 268, 269
medial-to-late contrast, 97, 182, 212,
213, 214, 221, 222, 226, 228, 229,
230
peak shift, 80–81, 97–98, 112, 121–22, 126,
216–21
F0 peak-valleys, 15–16, 69, 92, 102–5, 106,
107, 135, 168, 183. See also F0
fall+rise_fall-rise
peak-valley shift, 66
F0 reset, 87, 90, 136, 147
F0 valleys, 15–16, 102–5, 107, 183–84
early, 83, 128, 130, 135, 139, 142, 184,
197, 200, 210, 211, 213, 214, 215,
221, 228, 229, 231, 233, 234, 235, 238,
240–44
high rise, 54, 103, 210, 212, 213, 214, 215,
221, 228, 229, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235,
238, 240–44, 284
late, 106, 107, 128, 129, 130, 142, 200, 210,
212, 213, 215, 221, 228, 229, 231, 232,
233, 234, 235, 238, 243
low rise, 54, 59, 103, 199, 212, 215, 221,
228, 229, 233, 234, 239, 244
valley shift, 216–21
Fant, Gunnar and Kruckenberg, Anta
(prominence), 71, 78
ﬁnality. See argumentation; F0 peaks
focus, 7, 47, 51, 79, 80, 171, 176, 207, 219,
220, 223, 224, 227, 231, 242, 255, 271,
272, 274, 285, 286
broad, 7
contrastive, 7
narrow, 7, 121
foot, rhythmic, 54, 56, 57, 60, 186,
257
football results on BBC Radio, 173–75
foregrounding. See functional scaling
302 Index
formal scaling, reduction_elaboration, 3
articulatory, 74, 158, 174–81, 186, 262, 263
lexical, 95, 175, 252, 256, 257, 258
syntactic, 80, 175, 195–252
Frequency Code, 215, 266, 284, 285
Fries, Charles C., 208–9, 215, 249
function word, 49, 74, 77, 91, 122, 167, 170,
177, 178, 186, 261
functional scaling, attenuation_highlighting, 3
backgrounding_foregrounding, 52, 54, 79,
87, 124, 176, 223
low_high key. See expressive evaluation
Functional Systemic Linguistics, 32–33
fundamental frequency (F0). See F0 peaks; F0
peak-valleys; F0 valleys
Generative Grammar, 41, 45
Grand Budapest Hotel, The (ﬁlm), 241
Gu, Wentao, 206, 274, 276, 280
guide function of prosody, 31, 166–84
Gussenhoven, Carlos, 151, 202, 284
H(yper)&H(ypo) Theory, 176, 261
Halliday, Michael A.K., 1, 32, 33, 53, 54–60,
64, 65, 66, 208, 272
Harris, Zellig, 41
hat pattern. See intonation: concatenation of
F0 patterns
head, of tone group (London School), 47, 48
hic-nunc-ego origo (Bühler), 23, 27, 28
high key. See expressive evaluation
High Rising Terminal (HRT), 143
identiﬁcation tests, 83, 98, 113, 115, 116,
120, 122, 126, 127, 128, 129, 131,
132, 133
imperative form, 42, 43, 189, 190, 191, 252,
253, 258, 259
incredulity, 66, 67, 68, 120, 248, 258
information question. See questions
information selection and weighting, 30, 80,
87, 90, 166, 174–81, 267
information structure, 12, 17, 34, 80, 87, 91,
92, 147, 160, 166, 183, 271
Institute for Perception Research (IPO), 76, 87
intensiﬁcation, emotive negative_positive.
See expessive evaluation
Interactive Stance Model, 35–41
interrogative form, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 46,
189, 219, 239, 241, 242, 243, 252, 253
lexical, 40, 47, 73, 75, 205, 206, 207, 208,
209, 210, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215, 222,
223, 224, 227, 229, 230, 231, 235, 285
particle, 22, 205, 207, 272, 274, 277, 278,
280, 281, 282, 283–85
prosodic, tonal, 22, 121, 205, 207, 280, 281,
282, 283, 284, 285, 286
syntactic, paraphrase, 207
syntactic, word order, 22, 40, 47, 208, 209,
210, 211, 212, 214, 215, 216, 233, 238,
239, 243, 252, 259, 260, 280, 282, 285
intonation, 1–3, 15–16, 36–68, 102–8
concatenation of F0 patterns
fall+rise [F+R] versus fall-rise [FR]. See
F0 fall+rise_fall-rise
hat pattern, 16, 76, 77, 79, 81, 86, 91, 92,
102, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 143,
148, 167, 171
tub pattern, 17, 137, 138
continuous patterns. See F0 peaks; F0
peak-valleys; F0 valleys
stepping patterns, 25, 26, 29, 34, 151, 152,
155, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197,
198, 199, 200, 201, 202–4
Isačenko, Alexander V., 30, 153
Jakobson Roman, 30, 31, 34
Kiel Intonation Model (KIM), 11, 47, 60, 68,
71
Barry, William J., 68
Dombrowski, Ernst, 11, 139, 140, 151,
153, 199
Kiel Corpus, 6, 69, 139, 140, 145, 147, 209,
211, 214
Niebuhr, Oliver, 8, 36, 122, 123, 124, 125,
126, 128, 150, 194, 195, 208, 255
Peters, Benno, 7, 70, 147
Schäfer-Vincent, Kurt, xiii
Laboratory Phonology, 1, 2
Ladd, D. Robert, 1, 2, 21, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53,
152, 193, 195, 196, 198, 199, 200
Ladefoged, xiv, 156
languages
Chinese, Mandarin, 118, 121, 205, 206,
207, 267–71, 272–78, 278–84, 285,
286
Czech, 94
English, passim
Index 303
American, 1, 6, 53, 60, 61, 63, 144, 179,
208, 215
Australian, 55, 144
Standard Southern British (SSBE),
Received Pronunciation (RP), 55, 58,
63, 179, 184, 230, 236, 237
French, 4, 56, 77, 80, 94, 95, 96, 153, 154,
155, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 176,
186, 207
German, passim
Standard German, 73, 76, 81, 84, 86, 90,
93, 97, 109, 111, 112, 123, 128, 137,
141, 142, 145, 152, 211, 222, 226,
236, 237
Hindi, 205
Italian, 158
Neapolitan, 121, 126, 139, 205, 207, 286
Japanese, 156, 206, 265
Latin, 24, 285
Norwegian, 95, 121
Polish, 94
Russian, 94, 118, 119, 121, 126, 205, 207,
286
sub-Saharan African, 155, 206, 266, 285,
286, 287
Spanish, 158, 186
Swedish, 78, 95, 121, 286
langue (de Saussure), 19, 33
late peak. See F0 peaks
late valley. See F0 valleys
Laver, John. See voice quality
Lindblom, Björn. See H(yper)&H(ypo)
Theory
linguistic sign, functions of, 19–24, 32, 33,
48, 265
appeal, 188–95
expression, 254–55
representation, 164–66
London School of Phonetics, 14, 52, 54, 56,
61, 208
Abercrombie, David, 55, 56
Armstrong, Lilias E., 47, 154, 208, 255, 260
Arnold, G. F., 1, 47, 61, 208
Catford, John (‘Ian’), 156, 254
Coleman, H. O., 255
Coustenoble, Hélène N., 154, 255
Cruttenden, Alan, 1, 47, 143, 174, 205, 244
Crystal, David, 1, 56, 57
Firth, John Rupert, xii, 32, 36, 45, 157
Jones, Daniel, 47
Kingdon, Roger, 47, 94
O’Connor, J. D. (‘Doc’), 1, 47, 61, 208
Palmer, Harold E., 47, 50
Schubiger, Maria, 47
Sharp, Alan L., 49–52, 62, 63, 64, 65
Uldall, Elizabeth, xii, 9
Ward, Ida C., 47, 208, 255, 260
Wells, John, 47
low key. See expressive evaluation
Malinowski, Bronislaw. See phatic commun-
ion
medial peak. See F0 peaks
medial-to-late peak. See F0 peaks
microprosody, 58, 149–50
modal particles, 104, 107, 177, 191, 247–48,
252, 281
nucleus, of tone group (London School), 47,
220, 222, 237
Ohala, John. See Frequency Code
openness. See argumentation; F0 peaks
Organon Model (Bühler), 18–23, 30, 32, 33,
42, 255
Panconcelli-Calzia, Giulio, 2
paralinguistics, 32
parole (de Saussure), 19
Passy, Paul, 163, 176
perception experiments
intonation, peak and valley shifts, 112–17,
121–26, 128–34
lexical stress, 94
sentence accent, peak shift, 80–81
phatic communion, 18, 34
phonation, 20, 45, 57, 67, 68, 69, 136, 156,
157, 160, 192, 194, 200, 203, 235, 252,
254, 255, 256, 258, 259, 261, 262, 263,
264, 266, 287
phonology versus phonetics, 1, 2, 3, 21, 22.
See also Autosegmental Metrical
(AM) Phonology
functional, 21, 29–32
generative, 45, 96
intonational
Halliday, 54–60
Pike, 60
prosodic analysis, 45
structuralist phonemic, 45
304 Index
phrase accent. See Autosegmental Metrical
(AM) Phonology
phrase boundary, 57, 64, 65, 103, 104, 107,
136, 137, 167, 168, 172, 190
phrasing, prosodic, 17, 80, 91, 147–49, 159,
160, 164, 165, 171–74, 248
Pike, Kenneth L., 1, 60, 61, 151, 152, 186, 202
pitch accent. See Autosegmental Metrical
(AM) Phonology
polarity question. See questions
prehead, of tone group (London School,
KIM), 17, 47, 57, 58, 59, 60, 144–46,
147, 157, 200, 222, 237
prenucleus, of tone group (London School),
47, 50, 51
pretonic, of tone group (Halliday), 54, 57,
59, 60
prominence, 71–78
acoustic properties, hierarchy of, 94, 102
prominence-lending F0, 76, 77, 78, 79, 85,
87, 102, 124
proposal, 165
prosodic labelling (PROLAB), 11, 47, 70, 71,
104, 138, 143, 144, 147, 155, 210
Queen, The (ﬁlm), 267
question appeal. See appeal functions;
questions
Question Code, 285, 286
question intonation, 128, 144, 208, 209. See
also interrogative form: prosodic, tonal
question quote. See questions
question word. See interrogative form: lexical
questions
conﬁrmation question, 38, 40, 43, 72, 73,
74, 183, 205, 207, 215, 217, 218, 227,
228, 230–37, 238, 239, 240, 241, 242,
243, 272, 273, 274, 275, 277, 279, 280,
282, 287
enquiring statement, 246, 247, 281, 283,
285
information question, 37, 38, 39, 40, 72, 73,
76, 142, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, 214,
215, 222–30, 231, 232, 234, 240, 249,
250, 251, 272, 285
polarity question, 40, 43, 107, 121, 126,
139, 205, 207, 214, 215, 216–22,
223, 229, 238, 239, 240, 241, 242, 243,
244, 246, 247, 250, 272, 273, 274, 277,
278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283, 284,
285, 286
question functions compared, 238–44,
280–83
question quote, 37, 205, 248–52
theme-rheme question, 244–48
modal particle in German, 247–48
tag question in English, 244–47, 248
recommendation, 164, 165
reduction. See formal scaling
register, 17, 43, 57, 58, 59, 60, 144, 157,
174, 219, 233, 234, 237, 238, 239,
241, 243, 249, 274, 280, 282, 283,
284, 285, 286
reinforcement, argumentative. See expressive
evaluation
representation. See linguistic sign, functions of
request. See appeal functions
rhythm, 30, 54, 56, 57, 59, 95, 96, 157, 166,
185, 186
stress-timed, 55, 158, 186
syllable-timed, 155, 158, 186
Rousselot, l’Abbé Jean-Pierre, 2
Saussure, Ferdinand de, 20, 23
Schädlich, Hans-Joachim, 153
Scripture, Edward W., 2, 21
Semantic Differential Technique, xii, 9, 139,
144, 146, 151, 182, 194
sentence accent, 14, 78–84, 153, 158, 159,
160, 175, 176
accent level, 14, 64, 78
default accent, 72, 79, 83, 84, 85, 86, 88,
106, 171
partially deaccented, 72, 79, 83, 85, 102,
252
reinforced accent, 43, 55, 79, 85, 120,
266
unaccented, 53, 64, 72, 78, 79, 106, 124,
177, 184
declination_downstep_upstep, 87–94
silent stress (Halliday), 55
speech communication, 18, 21, 23, 25, 32, 33,
41–46, 96, 117, 151, 153, 177, 180,
242, 264, 265, 267, 270, 272, 284, 286
speech rate. See timing in speech
spontaneous speech, 6, 8, 41, 60, 70, 149, 185
statement, 121, 138, 139, 164, 165, 166–73,
175, 183, 207, 216, 217, 218, 219, 223,
232, 233, 234, 238, 239, 240, 242, 273,
274, 275, 277, 278, 279, 280, 284,
286, 287
Index 305
stepping F0 patterns. See intonation
stress, lexical, 15, 97–102, 158, 170
double, 94, 95
primary, 94, 96
secondary, 94, 96
stress clash, 95
structuralism, 30, 41, 61, 96, 208, 234
surprise, 221, 233, 234, 235, 238, 242, 243
symbolic ﬁeld. See communication, ﬁelds of
sympractical ﬁeld. See communication, ﬁelds
of
synchronisation, phonological. See F0 peaks;
F0 peak-valleys; F0 valleys
synsemantic ﬁeld. See communication, ﬁelds
of
syntactic structures, 1, 42, 43, 46, 166, 189,
216, 238
tag question. See questions
theme-rheme question. See questions
timing in speech
overall speech rate, 77, 133, 147
time-windows, 155–63
glottal window, 155, 156
prosody window, 156, 159, 160, 161
sub-glottal window, 155, 156
supra-glottal window, 155, 156, 157
timing of F0 patterns
internal F0 timing: concave_convex rises
in valleys, 139–43; rise-fall windows
in peaks, 110, 122, 123, 124, 125, 127,
133, 134, 139
synchronisation with accented syllables.
See F0 peaks; F0 valleys
tonal accent (languages), 95
tonality (Halliday), 54, 55
tone group (London School, Halliday), 47, 48,
54, 56, 57, 59, 60, 64, 65
tone, lexical, tone languages, 21, 77, 78,
87, 95, 121, 155, 266, 267, 270,
271, 272, 274, 275, 279, 285, 286,
287
Tones and Break Indices (ToBI), 49, 61, 62,
106, 107, 149
GToBI, 106
tonic, of tone group (Halliday), 54, 57, 60
tonicity (Halliday), 54, 55
Trubetrzkoy Nicilai S., 21, 30
tub pattern. See intonation: concatenation of
F0 patterns
tunes I, II (London School), 47
typology, prosodic, 271–84
uncertainty, 66, 67, 68, 280
unexpectedness. See argumentation;
F0 peaks
universals, orosodic, 287
unscripted speech, 6
upstep. See sentence accent:
declination-downstep-upstep
uptalk. See High Rising Terminal (HRT)
Vaissière, Jacqueline, 159, 160
voice quality, 45, 156, 173
warning, 35, 153, 154, 164, 165, 197, 200,
203
wh question, 47
word accents, Scandinavian
Ambrazaitis, Gilbert, 121, 286
Bruce, Gösta, 121
Gårding, Eva, 121
yes-no question, 55, 208, 209, 272
Zwirner, Eberhard, xii
