	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 17
Leech 1977) and principles of communication ethics, while a cognitive account
may offer an explanation in terms of Cognitive Salience (cf. Verschueren 1985) or
Relevance (cf. Sperber & Wilson 1986).
This study does not in any way proceed from the assumption that lexical ex-
pressions reveal whatever is important or relevant to the speakers of a certain
linguistic community, no matter how plausible this assumption may seem to be.
The procedure followed here to identify lexical gaps is independent from any pre-
conceived notion about how linguistic and conceptual structure relate to each
other. The conceptual network used will reveal which concepts are lexicalised as
opposed to such which are not. Having established a list of lexical gaps, we shall
proceed to find explanations for their occurrence. If indeed it is true that the
cognitive or social importance of concepts correlates with their tendency to be
lexicalised, this should become clear from the lexicalisation patterns observed.
Though the lexicon may certainly provide us with a clue to illocutionary acts,
it is evidently not likely to be of much help in the search for lexical gaps. If lexical
gaps are to be captured systematically, we certainly need more than an inventory
of actually existing lexicalisations. I shall therefore turn to an alternative to the
lexicalist approach next.
2.2.1.2	 Searle’s taxonomy of illocutionary acts
Searle (1975) criticised Austin’s classification for several reasons, one of these be-
ing that Austin classified English illocutionary verbs rather than illocutionary
acts. Searle considers differences in illocutionary verbs “a good guide but by no
means a sure guide to differences in illocutionary acts” because of the following
two reasons:
1.	 It is not true that wherever we are dealing with two non-synonymous illocu-
tionary verbs, these must necessarily mark two different kinds of illocution-
ary acts.
2.	 An illocution which is lexicalised in one particular language need not neces-
sarily be lexicalised in any other language as well.
Searle & Vanderveken (1985) also criticise Austin’s lexicalist approach because
of the lack of a one-to-one correspondence between illocutionary verbs and il-
locutionary forces:
Because there is no one-to-one correspondence between illocutionary verbs and
illocutionary forces it is essential to make a clear distinction between them. Il-
locutionary forces are, so to speak, natural kinds of uses of language, but we can
no more expect the vernacular expressions to correspond exactly to the natural
18	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
illocutionary kinds than we can expect vernacular names of plants and animals
to correspond exactly to the natural biological kinds.
 (Searle & Vanderveken 1985: 179)
Searle and Vanderveken list four cases where illocutionary verbs do not corre-
spond exactly to illocutionary acts. Firstly, many possible illocutionary forces do
not have a corresponding verb in a particular language. Verschueren lists exam-
ples of speech acts which cannot be referred to by a specialised descriptive lexi-
calisation. An utterance like (8), for example, can be referred to by descriptions
(8a) and (8b):
	 (8)		 I am truly grateful for your hospitality.
		 a.	 S said/ stated/ claimed that he/she was grateful for H’s hospitality.
		 b.	 S thanked H for his/her hospitality.
However, a speaker reporting on a speech act like the one in (9) can only use (9a)
or (9b). There is no specialised lexical expression analogous to the one in (8b) by
which (9) may be appropriately described (cf. Verschueren 1985: 188–189).
	 (9)		 I am surprised that you came.
		 a.	 S said/ stated/ claimed that he/she was surprised that H came.
		 b. 	 S expressed his/her surprise at H’s coming.
This example shows that a particular language – here English – sometimes lacks a
special illocutionary verb to refer to a specific speech act.
Secondly, some verbs of communication do not name any illocutionary force
at all, because they do not express any particular illocutionary point but rather
refer to the manner in which an illocutionary act is performed. Verbs like mut-
ter, grumble and shout, for example, do not name a particular illocutionary force,
because any type of illocutionary force can be muttered, grumbled or shouted. In-
stead, these verbs refer to features of the utterance act, such as manner of articula-
tion, manner of intonation and sound intensity. Searle & Vanderveken call these
verbs “speech act verbs”, but since these verbs do not lexicalise any particular type
of speech act at all, this does not seem to be the appropriate label for this class.
Because of this, I shall refer to these verbs as “verbs of communication”, as I have
pointed out in Chapter 1. Other verbs like, for example, interject and interpose do
not refer to a particular illocutionary force either, but rather make reference to
conversational structure.
Thirdly, different non-synonymous illocutionary verbs may be used to name
one and the same illocutionary force. This is true of verbs like, for example, claim,
deny and insist, which all name the assertive illocutionary force but differ with
respect to how the utterance referred to relates to the rest of the discourse. Claim
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 19
is used to refer to initial assertions, i.e. assertions which do not require some pre-
ceding speech act. As opposed to claim, deny is used to refer to a speaker’s reaction
to another speaker’s claim and is therefore called a “reactive” predicate. Assertives
like insist mark a second stage of reaction, i.e. a reaction of a speaker to a denial of
his or her own initial request. (Apart from the assertive reading, insist also has a
directive reading. The directive insist means ‘make a strong demand, urge’.)
Fourthly, some illocutionary verbs are systematically ambiguous between dif-
ferent illocutionary points. Searle and Vanderveken mention the verbs advise and
warn which are both systematically ambiguous between the illocutionary point
of a directive and that of an assertive; a case of advising or warning can either
be a case of telling the hearer that something is the case, leaving it to the hearer
what he/she will do, or it can be one of telling him or her to do something because
something is the case (cf. Searle & Vanderveken 1985: 179–181).
Since Searle considers the lexicon a treacherous guide to illocutionary acts,
he proposes a different procedure to classify illocutions. He suggests a set of clas-
sification criteria to distinguish one kind of illocutionary act from another. As
Searle points out, illocutionary acts may differ from one another in different re-
spects. He lists twelve dimensions of variation in which illocutionary acts may
differ from one another (cf. Searle 1975: 344–350). These are:
1.	 Differences in illocutionary point, i.e. the point (or purpose) of the (type of)
act.
2.	 Differences in the direction of fit between words and the world. Requests,
commands, vows, promises etc. have the world-to-word direction of fit, be-
cause their purpose is to make the world match the words. Other illocutions
such as statements, descriptions and explanations, which are performed to
make the words match the world, have the word-to-world direction of fit.
3.	 Differences in expressed psychological states. The psychological state ex-
pressed by a statement, an assertion or a remark is BELIEF. DESIRE or WANT
is expressed by requests, orders, commands etc. PLEASURE is expressed by
such speech acts like congratulations and welcomes, while promises, vows
and threats express INTENTION.
4.	 Differences in the degree of strength with which the illocutionary point is
presented. Acts like SUGGESTING and INSISTING, for example, have the
same illocutionary point but differ in degree of strength.
5.	 Differences in the status or position of the speaker and hearer as these bear
on the illocutionary force of the utterance. A speaker can, for example, only
command or order a hearer to do something if he occupies the appropriate
position to do so. If this is not the case, the directive speech act will be classi-
fied as a suggestion, a proposal or a request.
20	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
6.	 Differences in the way the utterance relates to the interests of the speaker and
hearer. Promises differ from requests, for example, to the extent that whatever
is promised is supposed to be in the interest of the hearer, whereas what is
requested is typically thought of as being in the interest of the speaker.
7.	 Differences in relations to the rest of the discourse. What is meant here is the
difference mentioned above between acts of REQUESTING, ALLOWING
and INSISTING, which are initial, reactive and re-reactive in the way defined
above. A similar difference may be observed by comparing acts like CLAIM-
ING, CONFIRMING and ARGUING.
8.	 Differences in propositional content that are determined by illocutionary
force indicating devices. What Searle has in mind here are differences be-
tween acts like PROMISING, where a speaker commits him- or herself to the
performance of a future action, and acts like CRITICISING, which are always
related to past actions.
9.	 Differences between those acts that must always be speech acts, and those
that can, but need not be performed as speech acts. Searle mentions the act
of CLASSIFYING to illustrate this point. One may classify things by saying
“I classify this as an A and this as a B”, but one need not say anything at all in
order to be classifying. One may simply throw all the As in the A box and all
the Bs in the B box.
10.	 Differences between those acts that require extra-linguistic institutions for
their performance and those that do not. CHRISTENING and EXCOMMU-
NICATING are examples of speech acts which require an extra-linguistic in-
stitution, often also a special position by the speaker and hearer within that
institution, in order for these speech acts to be performed.
11.	 Differences between those acts where the corresponding illocutionary verb
has a performative use and those where it does not. Though many illocution-
ary verbs like, for example, promise, state, request and inform have performa-
tive uses, not all illocutionary verbs are performative verbs. Acts of boasting
or threatening, for example, cannot be performed by uttering sentences such
as ?I hereby boast ... or ?I hereby threaten ...
12.	 Differences in the style of performance of the illocutionary act. As Searle
points out, the difference between, for example, acts like ANNOUNCING and
CONFIDING need not involve any difference in illocutionary point or propo-
sitional content but only in the style of performance of the illocutionary act.
After having introduced these twelve criteria, Searle selects the first three of them,
namely illocutionary point, direction of fit and the psychological state expressed,
as the basis of his classification. Searle himself calls the last two “corollaries” of
the first. This means that Searle’s classification is essentially based on the criterion
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 21
of illocutionary point. In such a classification, Searle argues, “other features – the
role of authority, discourse relations, etc. – will fall into their appropriate places”
(Searle 1975: 354). Insofar as Searle’s classification is constructed on the basis of a
consistent principle, he avoids one of the main weaknesses of Austin’s.
Searle selected the criterion of illocutionary point as the basis of his taxon-
omy, because it is related to the essential condition for the successful and non-
defective performance of illocutionary acts. The essential condition distinguishes
an illocutionary act of a particular type from other kinds of illocutionary acts.
For example, the essential condition which has to be fulfilled for a promise to be
successfully and non-defectively performed is that a speaker have the intention to
perform a certain act. Having this intention is a necessary condition for making a
promise: If we can show that a speaker did not have the intention of performing
a certain future act in performing a certain speech act, we may safely conclude
that this speech act was not a promise (cf. Searle 1969: 60). Similarly, the essential
feature of a request is that a speaker has the intention to get a hearer to perform
a certain act.
The essential condition being the one which has to be fulfilled if the speech act
is to be what it is claimed to be, it is more basic than the other conditions neces-
sary for the successful and non-defective performance of a particular speech act.
Searle claims that other conditions such as the sincerity, the preparatory and the
propositional content condition are functions of the essential condition (cf. Searle
1969: 69). For example, since the essential condition of a request is that a speaker
intends to get a hearer to perform a certain act, the propositional content condi-
tion to be fulfilled by a successful and non-defective request is that in a request a
future act must be predicated of a hearer. The sincerity condition characterising
a request is that a speaker requesting something of a hearer must actually want
whatever he requires the hearer to do. According to Searle, both the propositional
content and the sincerity condition follow from the essential condition. From this
primacy of the essential condition Searle concludes that “… Ultimately … es-
sential conditions form the best basis for a taxonomy, …” (Searle 1975: 345) and
thereby justifies his choice of illocutionary point as the basic criterion underlying
his speech act taxonomy. All other criteria serve to make subclassifications within
each of the five main classes of illocutionary acts.
Criticism of Searle’s taxonomy has centred mainly around the notion of il-
locutionary point, which, according to several authors, has never been clearly
defined (cf. Ballmer & Brennenstuhl 1981: 58; Vanparys 1996: 31). This is not sur-
prising given the fact that the notion of illocutionary point is derived from the
essential condition for the felicitous performance of a particular speech act. After
all, the essential condition itself has never been clearly defined either. The way
in which the essential condition and hence the notion of illocutionary point is
22	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
defined turns out to be different for different types of speech acts. Far from being
the consistent classification principle which Searle claims it to be, the notion of
illocutionary point seems to be derived from different conditions and combina-
tions of these. If ‘illocutionary point’ is a term subsuming a mixture of different
conditions and if direction of fit and psychological state are indeed corollaries of
illocutionary point, Searle’s classification does not seem to be based on any clas-
sification principle at all.
Leaving aside other points of criticism of Searle’s taxonomy, I shall now con-
centrate on what would turn out to be problematic if Searle’s taxonomy were to be
used for a systematic study of the occurrence of lexical gaps.
2.2.1.3	 The applicability of Searle’s taxonomy to a study of lexical gaps
Any attempt to apply Searle’s taxonomy to a study of lexical gaps runs into a
number of difficulties. The first concerns the number of the classification criteria
needed: How many criteria does a complete coverage of the lexicalisation domain
of concepts of communication require? The second question, more basic than
the first, concerns the nature of the criteria required. Searle’s criteria apply to il-
locutionary acts, not necessarily to illocutionary verbs: not everything which is
relevant to illocutionary acts is also part of the meaning of illocutionary verbs.
Some of Searle’s classification criteria are irrelevant to the meaning of illocution-
ary verbs. This is true, for example, of the direction of fit between words and the
world and the phenomenon of performativity.
1. Direction of fit
The direction of fit between words and the world is not a component of the mean-
ing of illocutionary verbs. The fact that requests and promises, for example, have
the world-to-word and assertions the word-to-world direction of fit is a conse-
quence of the illocutionary point of requests and promises on the one hand and
assertions on the other. The illocutionary point of a certain act is, of course, rel-
evant to the lexical meaning of the corresponding illocutionary verb. A speaker
requesting something of a hearer intends to get that hearer to perform a certain
kind of action. This is the point or purpose of a request, and it is also part of the
meaning of the corresponding verb request. The fact that a speaker requesting
something of a hearer also causes the world to match his words is a consequence
of the point or purpose of the act of requesting. It is an extra-linguistic conse-
quence of the nature of requesting acts, and, unlike the illocutionary point itself,
does not directly relate to the semantics of the corresponding verb request.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 23
2. Performativity
Whether performativity is related to the semantic structure of illocutionary
verbs has been a matter of much controversy. The discussion was initiated by
McCawley, who argued that the meaning of a verb completely determines wheth-
er it can be used performatively (McCawley 1979: 151). McCawley distinguished
seven classes of performative verbs, four of which – verdictives, commissives, be-
habitives and expositives – were already included in Austin’s classification (cf.
Austin 1962: 151). The remaining three include operatives, imperatives and advi-
sories, which are all subclasses of Austin’s exercitives. Operatives had already been
set apart from other types of exercitives by Vendler (cf. Vendler 1972: 20–23). In
Vendler’s classification, operatives are verbs referring to speech acts by which the
speaker causes something to be the case. Examples of operatives include annul,
appoint, baptise, decree etc. McCawley himself subdivided Vendler’s exercitives
into imperatives and advisories. Verbs like demand, direct, entreat, insist, etc. are
examples of imperatives, while such like advise, advocate, counsel and propose are
classified as advisories (cf. McCawley 1979: 153–154).
According to McCawley, behabitives (apologise, applaud, approve, curse, …)
and expositives (affirm, admit, correct, answer, interpose, …) behave differently
from the other classes of performative verbs, because they have a different se-
mantic structure. Specifically, McCawley claims that verdictives, operatives, im-
peratives, advisories and commisives are all causatives, because they refer to a
linguistic act and something which comes about as part of that act. A verdictive
like diagnose, for example, has a semantic structure along the lines of ‘I sayw that
it comesw about that it is on the record that I believe that S.’ In much the same
way, the semantic structure of I promise to mow your lawn on Saturday would be
along the lines of ‘I sayw that it comesw about that I owe you mowing your lawn on
Saturday.’ However, most expositives and most behabitives are not causatives but
rather refer to acts of “saying that S” (cf. McCawley 1979: 164).
McCawley regards the characteristics of causativity and reference to acts of
saying that S as the only bearers of performativity. However, Harras has shown
that the properties of causativity and reference to acts of saying that S are neither
necessary nor sufficient conditions for performativity. She lists German illocu-
tionary verbs whose English equivalents do not feature on McCawley’s list al-
though they may be used performatively. Harras’ counterexamples to McCawley’s
claim include the following (cf. Harras 2001: 25):
–	 beleidigen (insult) and überzeugen (convince) are causative verbs, but they
cannot be used performatively.
–	 lügen (lie) is a verb referring to an act of saying that S, but in spite of what
McCawley claims, it cannot be used performatively.
24	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
–	 Verbs like mitteilen (inform) and benachrichtigen (notify) may be used per-
formatively although they do not necessarily have to be analysed as causative
verbs.
These observations seriously challenge the view that the possibility of using a verb
performatively is directly related to the semantic structure of the verb in question.
Verschueren also argues that performativity is a property of verbs. He defines
performativity in terms of a descriptive model for the analysis of metapragmatic
terms, i.e. natural language terms such as speech act verbs, which describe ver-
bal behaviour (cf. Verschueren 1995; Verschueren 1999: 207–216). Verschueren’s
model involves two types of linguistic actions: A decribing act (D) and an act to
be described (A). These two types of speech acts are comparable to the two types
of situations which are essential to Harras’ account of performativity (see Sec-
tion 2.2.1.1). What is called the “describing act” by Verschueren corresponds to
Harras’ Discourse Situation, while Verschueren’s “act to be described” is called
the “Resource Situation” in Harras’ account. Verschueren argues that a non-circu-
lar description of linguistic action verbs should specify the conditions (C) under
which a verb can be appropriately used in a description D of a linguistic action A.
According to Verschueren, those conditions can be formulated as conditions on
or properties of the act to be described (A-conditions) and sometimes in terms of
conditions on or properties of the describing act (D-conditions). Conditions or
properties may be attached to the speakers and hearers of both linguistic actions
(A and D), to their beliefs, desires, intentions, etc. as well as to aspects of the phys-
ical and social context, the communicative intentions and the linguistic choices
made to achieve a particular communicative effect. One of the choices made in
D is the choice of a verb V which describes A as a form of verbal behaviour (cf.
Verschueren 1995: 311–312; Verschueren 1999: 210).
Verschueren claims that most D-conditions bear on such beliefs or assump-
tions of the utterer of D which simply reflect A-conditions. A case in point is the
verb promise. The appropriateness of the use of the verb promise in a description
of A is governed not only by the A-condition that the speaker of A intends to car-
ry out the action specified in the propositional content of his/her utterance, but
also by the D-condition that the speaker of act D must believe that the speaker of
act A had this intention when performing act A. This D-condition simply reflects
an A-condition. The meaning of the verb promise may be accounted for by mak-
ing reference to D-conditions which reflect A-conditions. Other verbs require for
the analysis of their meaning that reference be made not only to D-conditions
which are reflections of A-conditions, but also to such conditions which concern
only D (cf. Verschueren 1995: 312; Verschueren 1999: 210–212). An example is
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 25
the verb boast. A description of the meaning of boast involves at least the follow-
ing A-condition:
–	 The speaker of A (the act to be described) evaluates one of his/her own past
actions positively.
Additionally, boast may be used appropriately only if the following D-condition
is satisfied:
–	 The speaker of D (the describing act) evaluates the positive evaluation by the
speaker of A as being exaggerated, i.e. too positive.
The D-condition required for a description of the meaning of boast does not re-
flect properties of A but can only be formulated with reference to D.
Verschueren explains performativity in terms of complete self-reference in
speech act verbs. Complete self-reference may be achieved only if A and D co-
incide. Speech act verbs like promise, which do not require D-conditions other
than those which reflect A-conditions for an adequate description of their mean-
ing, can in principle be used performatively. As soon as explicit D-conditions are
required (as in the case of boast), there is a conceptual distance between A and D
which makes it impossible to interpret an utterance in which V would occur self-
referentially (cf. Verschueren 1995: 312–313; Verschueren 1999: 212).
Accounts like Verschueren’s and Harras’, which explain performativity by
making reference to a desribing act as well as to an act to be described, have much
in common with Vendler’s explanation of what blocks the performative use of
some illocutionary verbs. Vendler did not distinguish between two types of situ-
ations or linguistic actions, but he explained the fact that verbs like lie, hint and
boast cannot be used performatively by assuming that to use them performatively
would amount to committing what he called “illocutionary suicide.” Illocutionary
suicide is the result of speech acts the illocutionary aim of which is frustrated by
some kind of “spoiling factor”, a feature undermining the illocutionary aim. For
example, the illocutionary aim of a speaker who is lying is to make his/her audi-
ence believe that P. The factor spoiling the performative use of lie is that use of the
verb implies that the speaker who uses it indicates that the liar knew P to be false
(cf. Vendler 1976: 140). Vendler concludes that one cannot lie in saying “I lie …”,
because doing so would be claiming credence for something explicitly labelled
as false. In other words, if lie were to be used performatively, the spoiling of the
speech act would be done by the verb itself (cf. Vendler 1976: 144).
Vendler argues that spoiling factors like the one which would be involved in
the performative use of lie are part of the meaning of some illocutionary verbs.
Illocutionary verbs whose meaning contains a spoiling factor which clashes with
26	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
the illocutionary aim of the corresponding act cannot be used performatively. Us-
ing such illocutionary verbs performatively would lead to illocutionary suicide.
Vendler’s examples include boast, brag, hint, insinuate, scold, etc.
Verschueren’s explanation is essentially the same as Vendler’s. Verschueren
adds the distinction between the describing act and the act to be described to
Vendler’s account. He also recognises four types of conceptual distance between
these two types of linguistic actions. The correctness of Verschueren’s account
critically hinges on whether a conceptual distance may indeed be shown to be
part of the meaning of the verbs in question. The following cases especially seem
to pose problems to Verschueren’s account:
(i) (to) lie
Verschueren claims that lie may not be used performatively, because it requires
an interpretive as well as an evaluative distance between A and D for an adequate
description of its meaning. According to Verschueren, a description of the mean-
ing of lie involves an interpretive distance between A and D, because acts of lying
are not meant to be recognised by the hearer of A (Ha). Verschueren also claims
that a semantic analysis of lie additionally requires an evaluative distance between
A and D, since the speaker of D (Sd) evaluates Sa’s act negatively.
I object to Verschueren’s claim that an evaluative distance between A and D is
a necessary component of the meaning of lie. Verschueren states that an adequate
description of the meaning of lie requires a negative value judgement of A by Sd:
… a negative value judgement is always associated with the use of the verb lie, as
emerges from the fact that whenever there are attenuating circumstances in Sd’s
mind, use of the verb will be avoided as much as possible.
 (Verschueren 1995: 312)
As the following examples show, the assumption that the use of lie (or lügen or lie-
gen) is avoided whenever attenuating circumstances are involved is not correct:
	(10)	 a.	 Der Psychologin Dory Hollander zufolge verschaffen sich Männer durch
	 Lügen “ein unangreifbares Äußeres”. ... Ganz anders Frauen: Sie lügen
	 gefühlvoll. Weibliche Unehrlichkeit dient dazu, “Beziehungen und die
	 Gefühle anderer zu schützen”, ... (Berliner Zeitung 05.06.1998; S. II)
			 [According to the psychologist Dory Hollander, men attain “an unassail-
	 able exterior” by lying ... Women instead lie with feeling. Female dishon-
	 esty serves the purpose of “protecting the relationships and feelings of
	 others”, ... Translation K.P.]
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 27
		 b.	 Der Test am Lügendetektor gehört zu den finalen Spielen. “Es gibt nichts.
	 weswegen Sie beunruhigt sein müssten”, lügt der massige Detective
	 Braxton..., als er John Walter Wayland verdrahtet.
			 [The test with the lie detector is one of the last games. “There is nothing for
	 you to be concerned about”, lies the thickset Dectective Braxton while
	 wiring up John Walter Wayland. Translation K.P.]
In these examples, use of lie to refer to the corresponding speech act does not
necessarily imply that the DS speaker evaluates the speech act of the RS speaker
negatively. These examples show that a negative evaluation by Sd is not a neces-
sary component of the meaning of lie, though a negative evaluation is frequently
associated with the use of that verb. As soon as a negative evaluation by Sd is
excluded from the meaning of lie, the claim that the meaning of lie involves an
evaluative distance between A and D is no longer justifiable. This also means that
Verschueren’s model offers an adequate explanation for the fact that lie cannot be
used performatively only if we do not differentiate between meaning and use, and
preferred interpretations or patterns of usage are taken to be part of the lexical
meaning of a word.
One may of course object that, even if we draw a distinction between mean-
ing and use and reject the notion of an evaluative distance between A and D to
account for the meaning of lie, there is still the interpretive distance to account
for. Following Coleman & Kay, Verschueren claims that use of lie in its prototypi-
cal sense involves at least the following A-conditions (cf. Coleman & Kay 1981: 43;
Verschueren 1995: 312):
–	 falsity of belief
–	 intended deception
–	 factual falsity
In the study carried out by Coleman & Kay, falsity of belief turned out to be the
most important element of the prototype of lie, intended deception the next most
important element, and factual falsity the least important (cf. Coleman & Kay
1981: 43). The second of the three elements, intended deception, implies that acts
of lying are not meant to be recognised by Ha. However, if non-overtness or in-
tention to mislead is an element associated with the use of lie in its prototypical
sense, this does not necessarily mean that it is a component of the meaning of lie.
What is part of the meaning of lie, though, are the following two characteristics:
		 Propositional Attitude of S: S does not take to be true: P
		 Speaker Intention: S wants: H recognise: S takes to be true: P
28	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Non-overtness or intention to mislead is more likely to be a pragmatic inference
which follows from the combination of the values for the speaker’s propositional
attitude and the speaker’s intention. My analysis of lie differs from Verschueren’s
in that I do not take intention to mislead to be part of the meaning of lie. Insofar
as I exclude intended deception (or actual falsity, for that matter) from the mean-
ing of lie, my analysis of lie is similar to Sweetser’s. Sweetser formulates two ICMs
(Idealised Cognitive Models) to account for the meaning of lie. Referring to the
three conditions listed by Coleman & Kay, she argues that in her ICMs, falsity
entails both lack of belief and intention to deceive. What remains is a definition
of a lie as a false statement. The other properties of lying follow as consequences
of that definition. Sweetser concludes that the definition of lie does not need to
list all three attributes (cf. Sweetser 1987; for a discussion of Coleman & Kay and
Sweetser, see also Lakoff 1990: 71–74). On my account, lie means nothing else
than ‘not to tell the truth’, while non-overtness and intention to deceive follow as
pragmatic inferences from the meaning of the verb.
Having excluded both intended deception and a negative evaluation from the
meaning (though not, of course, from the use) of lie, we can no longer maintain
the claim that the meaning of lie involves a distance between the describing act
and the act to be described.
(ii) (to) boast
Verschueren argues that performativity is blocked in the case of boast, because the
use of boast involves an interpretive as well as an evaluative distance between A
and D. I agree with Verschueren’s claim that the notion of an evaluative distance
between A and D is required for an adequate analysis of the meaning of boast. I
also agree that this is the reason why boast cannot be used performatively. What
causes an evaluative distance between A and D in the case of boast is the “internal
antonymy”, i.e. the opposite value judgements assigned by Sa and Sd, which is
part of the meaning of boast. In an act of boasting, Sa evaluates one of his own
past actions positively, while Sd believes Sa’s act of self-praise to be exaggerated.
Sd’s judgement of Sa’s act of self-praise as being exaggerated is a negative evalua-
tion. The opposite value judgements expressed by Sa and Sd are essential to acts
of boasting, and they are also part of the meaning of the verb boast. They prevent
that A and D coincide, thereby causing a distance between A and D which blocks
the use of boast in performative utterances.
Though an evaluative distance between A and D is certainly part of the mean-
ing of boast, I do not believe that the distance involved in the meaning of boast
is also interpretive in nature. Assuming an interpretive distance between A and
D amounts to saying, as Verschueren does, that acts of boasting are not meant
to be recognised by Ha. I do not believe that this is the case. Instead I argue that
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 29
non-overtness is simply not relevant to acts of boasting. Acts of boasting involve a
speaker in the A-situation who presents his/her action positively and a speaker in
the D-situation who considers Sa’s self-praise to be exaggerated. Whether Ha also
recognises Sa’s self-praise as an act of boasting, i.e. as being exaggerated, is not a
requirement for the relevant speech act to be labelled an act of boasting. What
matters is that the speaker of the describing act judges Sa’s speech act to be an act
of boasting, i.e. of exaggerated self-praise. A notion like non-overtness is simply
irrelevant both to acts of boasting and to the meaning of the verb boast. Use of
the verb boast implies nothing at all with respect to what Ha does or what he/she
does not recognise.
(iii) (to) curse / (to) swear
Verbs like protest may be used performatively, but such like curse and its syn-
onym swear may not. Verschueren explains the difference between protest on the
one hand and swear and curse on the other by claiming that the latter require an
evaluative distance between A and D for an adequate description of their mean-
ing, while a semantic analysis of the former does not involve any type of distance
between A and D.
Contrary to what Verschueren claims, I argue that a negative evaluation is
lexicalised by all three of these verbs and that this evaluation is related to the act
described (A) rather than to the describing act (D). A speaker protesting against
some action or state of affairs expresses that he evaluates P negatively. Likewise,
the verb protest lexicalises a negative evaluation of P by Sa. The same is true of
swear and curse, but these verbs additionally lexicalise Sa’s anger because of P. If
the speaker of D uses a verb like swear or curse to refer to A, he expresses that Sa
both evaluates P negatively and feels anger because of P. If the speaker of D, how-
ever, describes A as an act of protesting, he or she merely expresses that the spea­
ker of A evaluates P negatively. Thus, the difference between swear and curse on
the one hand and protest on the other is that the meaning of the former involves
an emotive component (anger) which is not part of that of the latter. Like the
evaluative component lexicalised by all three of these verbs, the emotive compo-
nent of the meaning of swear and curse is an element of the act described and not,
as Verschueren claims, of the describing act. In other words, the D-conditions re-
quired for the semantic analysis of all of these verbs are merely of the “reflective”
type: They merely reflect A-conditions.
Excluding a negative evaluation by Sd from the meaning of swear and curse
means that there is no reason to assume an interpretive distance to be involved
in the meaning of those verbs. If an interpretive distance is excluded from the
meaning of swear and curse, Verschueren’s model does not provide us with an
adequate explanation of why these two verbs cannot be used performatively. (An
30	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
alternative account of why curse and swear cannot be used performatively will be
discussed below.)
(iv) (to) convince / (to) persuade / (to) amuse / (to) annoy
Verschueren attributes the fact that verbs like convince, persuade, amuse and an-
noy cannot be used performatively to a temporal distance between A and D which
he claims to be involved in the meaning of these verbs. According to Verschueren,
the communicative effect of A must already have taken place before A may be
described as an act of convincing, persuading, amusing or annoying. A and D
cannot coincide if they must be consecutive. The corresponding D-condition is
Sd’s assessment of the communicative effect of A (cf. Verschueren 1995: 314).
Though verbs like convince, persuade, etc. do indeed differ from other types
of speech act verbs in that they lexicalise a result, it is not clear how this creates a
temporal distance between A and D which is irrelevant to the meaning of other
speech act verbs. After all, A and D must always be consecutive. A temporal dis-
tance between A and D follows from the very fact that D is a description of A.
Temporal distance between A and D must therefore be relevant to the meaning
of all speech act verbs, including such which may be used performatively. If tem-
poral distance between A and D is not something which distinguishes resultative
verbs from other types of speech act verbs, it does not explain why these verbs
may not be used performatively. (Below, I shall discuss an alternative explanation
of why it is not possible for these verbs to be used performatively.)
The observations in (i)–(iv) suggest that an account of performativity in terms
of a conceptual distance between A and D does not offer an overall explanation of
why some verbs may and others may not be used performatively. It does explain,
however, why the following verbs may not be used performatively:
–	 boast, brag and show off may not be used performatively, because their mean-
ing involves an evaluative distance between A and D. What causes the evalua-
tive distance in these cases is the assignment of opposite value judgements by
Sa and Sd.
–	 whitewash and slander may not be used performatively, and this is likely to
be due, as Verschueren claims, to the fact that these verbs require an evalua-
tive distance between A and D for an adequate description of their meaning.
Specifically, a negative evaluation of A by Sd is an essential element of the
meaning of these verbs.
–	 The notion of an interpretive distance turned out to be problematic in the case
of lie and boast, but it is relevant, as Verschueren argues, to the meaning of
verbs like hint, allude to, insinuate and intimate. Verschueren points out that
the mode of delivery of the acts referred to by these verbs is implicitness. The
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 31
meaning which is hinted at, insinuated, intimated or alluded to is fundamen-
tally constructed by Sd. The D-condition involved is Sd’s interpretation which
leads him/her to believe that more is meant in A than is actually said. Though
interpretation is an active process in other cases as well, the interpretive pro-
cess is completely foregrounded by decribing A as an instance of hinting or
insinuating. Such a description is not possible without creating a distance
between A and D (cf. Verschueren 1995: 313). As Verschueren claims, the
interpretive distance between A and D which is part of the meaning of verbs
like hint, insinuate, etc. is what blocks the use of these verbs in performative
utterances.
The examples discussed so far suggest that performativity is not generally related
to the meaning of illocutionary verbs. Only in a few cases may it be said to be
directly related to the meaning of the corresponding verbs. Thus, components of
the meaning of boast, brag, whitewash, hint, insinuate, allude to, etc. are indeed the
reason why these verbs may not be used in performative utterances. In all other
cases, the possibility or impossibility for a verb to be used in a performative ut-
terance depends on factors irrelevant to the meaning of the verbs in question. In
many cases, performativity is blocked because of extra-linguistic reasons. This is
also essentially what Searle claims (cf. Searle 1989). Searle does not deny that some
verbs require for their semantic analysis a feature which implies non-performativ-
ity. Searle’s examples are hint, insinuate and boast. According to Searle, these verbs
cannot be used performatively, because “… they imply that the act was performed
in a way that was not explicit and overt …” (Searle 1989: 554). Verschueren’s model
offers a more precise account of what blocks performativity in these cases. In the
case of hint and insinuate, performativity is blocked because of an interpretive dis-
tance between A and D, while performative use of boast is blocked by an evaluative
distance between A and D. As I have argued before, I do not believe an interpretive
distance to be additionally involved in the meaning of boast.
In Searle’s account, cases like boast, hint and insinuate are treated as excep-
tions. Searle claims that generally there is no semantic property which attaches to
verbs and thereby enables them to be used performatively. Instead, he argues that
the limitation on performatives is provided by the fact that only a small number
of changes can be brought about in the world solely by saying that one is mak-
ing those changes by that very utterance. Searle distinguishes between two types
of changes which may be brought about only by saying that one is making them
by means of that very utterance: Performative utterances either create purely
linguistic or extra-linguistic institutional facts. For example, an utterance like I
hereby promise to come and see you creates a promise, which is a purely linguistic
fact, while utterances like I pronounce you husband and wife or The meeting is
32	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
adjourned create extra-linguistic institutional facts. The fact that these utterances
may function to create the state of affairs represented in the propositional content
of the utterance is due to human conventions, rules and social institutions. It is
due to facts of nature that performatives are restricted to those verbs which name
actions where the manifestation of the intention is constitutive of the actions, and
those verbs are confined to linguistic and institutional declarations. Thus, the fact
that an utterance like I hereby amuse you … does not work as a performative is
due to the fact that one cannot simply amuse someone only by saying that one is
actually doing so. The latter is a fact of nature which has nothing to do with the
meaning of the verb amuse (cf. Searle 1989: 554–555).
Insofar as Searle takes social facts to be the decisive factor determining
whether a given illocutionary verb may or may not be used performatively, his
view of performativity has much in common with Austin’s. As early as 1961, Aus-
tin claimed that the social habits of a society may considerably affect the question
of which performative verbs are evolved and which are not. Thus, he argued that
we have evolved formula like I reprimand you or I censure you, because apparently
society approves of censuring or reprimanding. We have, however, not evolved
a simple formula like I insult you. According to Austin, the reason why we have
not developed such a formula is that society does not approve of the correspond-
ing acts (cf. Austin 1961: 245). If Austin’s account of performativity is correct, it
provides an adequate explanation of why verbs like lie, swear and curse may not
be used performatively. On Austin’s account, we have simply not developed per-
formative formula containing these verbs, because society does not approve of the
acts in question.
Austin and Searle both attribute the possibility or impossibility of using a
given illocutionary verb performatively to social factors. Such an account of per-
formativity is more powerful than one along the lines of Verschueren, because it
provides an explanation for many more cases. Verschueren’s model only offers an
explanation for some exceptional cases. Having discussed linguistic as well as so-
cial explanations of the phenomenon of performativity, I conclude that performa-
tivity is not generally related to the meaning of illocutionary verbs. It is therefore
not a category relevant to an ordering system which serves to represent concepts
of communication.
While some of the classification criteria proposed by Searle are not relevant to
the semantics of illocutionary verbs, Searle also occasionally ignores such criteria
which are crucial both to the nature of illocutionary acts and to the semantics of
the corresponding verbs. The illocutionary point of the act of blaming, for exam-
ple, is to express a negative evaluation by a speaker of some past action performed
by a hearer. This negative evaluation is, of course, part of the meaning of the verb
blame, but the same holds true of the speaker’s presupposition that P (the past
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 33
action which the hearer is actually blamed for) is the case. This presupposition of
the speaker is an essential property not only of the act of blaming, but also of the
meaning of the corresponding verb blame. The latter is reflected by the fact that
the presupposition ‘P is the case’ survives under negation, showing that it is a real
lexical presupposition, or that, to put it differently, blame is a factive verb. Searle
mentions elsewhere that speaker presuppositions are part of the preparatory con-
ditions for the successful performance of a particular illocutionary act (cf. Searle
1969: 58–60). It is therefore surprising that speaker presuppositions like those
lexicalised by blame do not figure on Searle’s list of criteria for the classification of
speech acts. On Searle’s list, speaker presuppositions such as those concerning the
interests of speakers and hearers are mentioned as possible classification criteria,
but lexical presuppositions like ‘P is the case’ are not (cf. Searle 1975: 344–350).
In this section, I have explored the possibility of applying Searle’s and Austin’s
taxonomies, the two main paradigms of traditional speech act theory, to a sys-
tematic investigation of lexical gaps. Austin’s lexicalist approach turned out to be
inadequate for obvious reasons: taking only illocutionary verbs as a starting point
even excludes the possibility of detecting lexical gaps. However, the advantage of
a lexicon-based approach is that it ensures that the classification criteria selected
are relevant to the meaning of illocutionary verbs. The irrelevance of some of
Searle’s classification criteria to the meaning of illocutionary verbs appeared to be
the main reason why his speech act taxonomy cannot be used for a study of the
occurrence of lexical gaps.
The kind of ordering system needed for the purpose of this study requires
that its parameters or criteria be relevant to the semantics of existing lexical ex-
pressions. If lexical gaps are to be included systematically, we need to represent
more than just the meaning of actually existing expressions. In what follows, I
propose an ordering system operating with parameters based on the semantics
of illocutionary verbs. Within this framework, concepts of communication are
represented as combinations of parameter values which may but need not be lexi-
calised. This kind of ordering system was first proposed by Baumgärtner in 1977.
Baumgärtner’s ordering system will be dealt with in the next section.
2.2.2	 Baumgärtner’s ordering system for directive and commissive
	 speech acts
2.2.2.1	 Categorial aspects of the meaning of performatives
One of the earliest examples of an ordering system for concepts of communi-
cation is the ordering system for directive and commissive predicates proposed
by Baumgärtner in 1977. Baumgärtner shows that these and other performative
34	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
predicates enter into relationships which may be described as combinations of
components of these predicates’ meanings. According to Baumgärtner, performa-
tive predicates represent “lexical systems” and behave in a systematic way with
respect to certain aspects of their meaning. The systematic behaviour of these
predicates enables us to make theoretical predictions about actually existing as
well as possible but non-existing performative predicates. Possible performative
predicates, whether these be lexicalised or not, can be read off immediately from
Baumgärtner’s matrix. At the same time, Baumgärtner’s ordering system allows
us to recognise which predicates are not possible in principle and also gives us a
clue as to what prevents their existence in the lexicon of a particular language.
Baumgärtner starts from the assumption that there is no such thing as a natu-
ral taxonomy of performative verbs. The existence of such a taxonomy would pre-
suppose that social reality itself were structured, independently of any illocution-
ary verbs, by means of unambiguous forms of social interaction (cf. Baumgärtner
1977: 259). Though speech acts may of course exist independently of the corre-
sponding illocutionary verbs, the latter help us to elucidate exactly what kind
of speech act a certain speaker performs and how far as well as in what way it
commits him/her, etc. If, for example, a speaker utters an imperative sentence
like Please, shut the door, context alone often does not suffice to distinguish un-
ambiguously whether this speaker was requesting, ordering, begging or beseech-
ing a hearer to close the door. Illocutionary verbs certainly help us very much in
distinguishing between different but related speech acts. To that extent, speech act
expressions may be said to structure and thereby also constitute social reality.
Since there is no natural taxonomy of performative verbs, Baumgärtner’s or-
dering system is based on an indirect and inductive analysis of (German) perfor-
matives. Such an analysis requires that performative verbs be non-distinct and at
the same time differ al least minimally with respect to certain categorial aspects.
The following examples show that this is indeed the case:
	(11)	 a.	 I (hereby) criticise the Prime Minister for having ratified the treaty./
	 I (hereby) criticise the Prime Minister, because he has ratified the treaty.
		 b.	 I do not criticise the Prime Minister for having ratified the treaty./
	 I do not criticise the Prime Minister, because he has ratified the treaty.
		 c.	 I (hereby) praise the Prime Minister for having ratified the treaty./
	 I (hereby) praise the Prime Minister, because he has ratified the treaty.
		 d.	 *I (hereby) criticise the Prime Minister for my having ratified the treaty./
	 *I (hereby) criticise the Prime Minister, because I have ratified the treaty.
		 e.	 #I (hereby) criticise the Prime Minister, because he will ratify the treaty.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 35
The well- or ill-formedness of these examples suggests what are essential proper-
ties of the meaning of criticise:
–	 criticise is a factive verb: the proposition expressed in the complement clause
is presupposed (11a). It is the case that the Prime Minister ratified the treaty,
irrespective of whether S criticised him for that or not.
–	 criticise lexicalises a negative (and praise a positive) evaluation of P by S (11a
& 11c).
–	 The subject of the complement clause must not refer to the speaker (11d).
Instead, the referent of the subject of the complement must be the hearer or
some third person.
–	 The verb of the complement clause must not carry future reference (11e).
(11e) can only be considered well-formed under the assumption that criticise
refers to an intention of the hearer – here the Prime Minister – which pre-
cedes the act of criticising. (“#” in front of 11e indicates that the sentence does
not have the intended, i.e. the performative reading.)
These properties relate the verb criticise to the verb praise: they illustrate where
these verbs differ and in what respects they are identical. Such relations among
predicates become clearer if these properties are represented as variables with a
fixed number of values. For example, the property – or variable – ‘evaluation of
P’ is assigned one of two values: ‘positive’ (for praise) and ‘negative’ (for criticise).
A variable like ‘temporal reference of P’ may in principle be assigned one of three
values: ‘past’, ‘present’ or ‘future’. criticise and praise are both assigned the value
‘past’ for this variable.
This analysis of criticise shows which are the relevant aspects of the situa-
tions in which this predicate is used. Following Baumgärtner, these aspects will
henceforth be called “categorial aspects”. In Baumgärtner’s framework, categorial
aspects are aspects of the meaning of performative illocutionary verbs determin-
ing in what kinds of situations these predicates may be used. Individual predicates
show similarities as well as minimal differences regarding these categorial aspects.
Figure 2 below shows which categorial aspects determine the use of criticise.
2.2.2.2	 Lexical systems
Having established these categorial aspects, we can now compare the meaning of
criticise with that of other predicates like praise and repent:
–	 praise: Positive instead of negative evaluation of P.
–	 repent: The subject of the event expressed in the complement clause refers to
the speaker.
36	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
The three categorial aspects mentioned above suffice to discover where the predi-
cates of the set {criticise, praise, repent} are identical and in what respects they
differ. No additional categorial aspects are needed to differentiate the situations in
which these predicates are used. The members of this set differ with respect to the
values attributed to the categorial aspects ‘subject reference of the complement’
and ‘evaluation of P’ but are identical regarding the categorial aspect ‘temporal
reference of P’, which is ‘past’ in all cases. For this reason, the predicates of this set
may be said to constitute the lexical system of presupposing performatives with
past reference of the complement clause.
If the set S1 {criticise, praise, repent} is expanded to include other predicates
like promise or request, additional categorial aspects become necessary to show
where the predicates of this larger set S2 {criticise, praise, repent, promise, request}
coincide and where they differ. An analysis similar to the one in (11a)–(11e) is
necessary to find out what these additional categorial aspects are:
	(12)	 a.	 I request that you give me some money.
		 b.	 *I request that I give you some money.
		 c.	 *I request that you gave me some money.
		 d.	 I (hereby) promise that I will give you some money.
		 e.	 #I (hereby) promise that you will give me some money.
		 f.	 #I (hereby) promise that I gave you some money.
(12a)–(12f) show which categorial aspects are relevant to the use of request and
promise (Figure 3).
These categorial aspects, together with the ones relevant to the set S1, deter-
mine in which kinds of situations the predicates of the larger set S2 may be used.
Figure 2.  Categorial aspects determining the use of criticise
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 37
2.2.2.3	 Lexicalised and non-lexicalised concepts of communication
Baumgärtner’s analysis covers all “simple” and “complex” directive and commis-
sive predicates of German. In Baumgärtner’s terms, “simple” performatives differ
from “complex” ones in that they do not presuppose a preceding context. For
example, allow is considered a complex predicate, because S’s act of allowing P
is always preceded by H’s act of asking S’s permission to do P; request is a simple
predicate, because it does not presuppose a preceding speech act by either S or
H. For reasons of brevity, I shall only deal with Baumgärtner’s account of simple
performatives.
The use of simple directive and commissive predicates is determined by
the categorial aspects below, which can all be assigned one of two values (cf.
Baumgärtner 1977: 269–271):
–	 P: S’s attitude towards p (S says that he is in favour of or against p.)
–	 P’: Expectability of P (In the normal course of events, P is either expectable or
not.)
–	 Sbj: Subject reference of the complement (The proposition expressed in the
complement clause refers to S or H.)
–	 IS: I(S, P): P is in the interest of S or not
–	 IH: I(H, P): P is in the interest of H or not
–	 I’S: P’ is in the interest of S or not
–	 I’H: P’ is in the interest of H or not
Each performative is assigned a truth-value for each of these categorial aspects.
A predicate lexicalising the existence of certain conditions of use (represented by
the categorial aspects), is assigned the value ‘true’ for the corresponding aspects. A
performative which lexicalises the absence of certain conditions of use is assigned
the value ‘false’. Each performative is completely determined by the combinations
of truth-values for each of the categorial aspects. Figure 4 shows some examples of
Figure 3.  Categorial aspects determining the use of request and promise
38	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
combinations of truth-values. (The dots in the matrix above indicate cases where
a given predicate cannot be assigned a truth-value for a certain categorial aspect.
The question-mark preceding some of the predicates indicates non-illocution-
ary predicates whose meaning approximates the corresponding combination of
truth-values. The symbol ‘∅’ stands for combinations which cannot be lexicalised
by either illocutionary or non-illocutionary verbs.)
Figure 4 shows different types of combinations of truth-values:
1.	 Combinations of truth-values which are lexicalised (at least in English,
German and Dutch) by illocutionary verbs like warn (G.: warnen/ D.: waar­
schuwen) and request (G.: auffordern/ D.: vragen) (lines 1 & 2 in the matrix).
2.	 Combinations of truth-values whose lexicalisation is blocked by logical
principles. Examples are all combinations comprising the following pairs of
values:
	 (1)	 


P: t	 


						 →	 ∅
		 P’: t
Figure 4.  Categorial aspects determining the use of simple directive and commissive
predicates (from Baumgärtner 1977) (‘Ø (sad)’ and ‘Ø (mad)’ indicate the lack of verbs
which would refer to sadistic or masochistic speech acts)
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 39
	 (2)	 


P: f 


						 →	 ∅
		 P’: f
	 Neither of these combinations would make sense from a logical point of view.
The former would correspond to a situation where S says that he is in favour of
some P which would take place anyway in the normal course of events (lines 3
& 4 in the matrix). An example would be a situation where a speaker requests
a hearer to perform some kind of action which S knew H would have done
anyway, P therefore being expectable. The second combination represents a
situation where S says that he/she is against some P which H would not have
done anyway. In this case, P is not expectable (lines 5 & 6). An example would
be a situation where a speaker forbids a hearer to do something which he (S)
knew H would not have done anyway.
3.	 Combinations of truth-values whose lexicalisation is blocked, because they
represent speech acts which deviate from patterns of common human prac-
tice. In this case, logical principles do not prevent these combinations from
being lexicalised. An example is the following combination:
	 (1)	 


P: f 


		 P’: t			 →	 ∅
		 IH: f
	 Such a combination would correspond to a situation where S says that he is
against some P which is not expectable and not in the interest of H (line 7).
Such ‘sadistic’ speaker attitudes can only be lexicalised by verbs like threaten
(G.: drohen; D.: dreigen), which may be used as illocutionary verbs but can-
not be used performatively. An example of the same type is the combination
below:
	 (2)	 


P: f 


		 P’: t			 →	 ∅
		 I’S: f
	 This combination represents a situation where S says that he is against some
P which is expectable and also in S’s own interest (line 8). Such a combina-
tion would require a “masochistic” predicate for its lexicalisation. The reverse
is true of a combination representing a situation with a speaker saying that
he/she is against some P which is expectable and also in H’s interest (line 9).
Only “sadistic” predicates are possible lexicalisations for such combinations
of truth-values.
40	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 Cases 1–3 are examples of combinations of truth-values which are not lexi-
calised in either English, German or Dutch. To the extent that we can imagine
situations matching these combinations, combinations like these are possible
in principle and are not ruled out by logical principles. However, combina-
tions representing sadistic or masochistic communicative behaviour may fail
to get lexicalised because of principles of communication ethics: The corre-
sponding patterns of behaviour would go beyond what is esteemed an appro-
priate distance between a speaker and a hearer.
4.	 Combinations which are not lexicalised, although their lexicalisation
would be allowed by logical principles as well as by principles of commu-
nication ethics. For example, the combination in line (10)
		 


P: f 


		 P’: w		 →	 ?avoid / vermeiden / vermijden
		 I’S: f
	 lacks a corresponding lexicalisation by a speech act verb, though a non-il-
locutionary verb like avoid (G.: vermeiden; D.: vermijden) does seem to be
an appropriate lexicalisation. Why should this be the case? Are lexical gaps
like those represented in lines (10) and (11) merely due to coincidence or is
there anything systematic about their occurrence? Obviously, we need more
examples of this type to answer this question. Comprehensive sampling is
also needed to investigate whether the lexicalisation patterns observed by
Baumgärtner apply to the whole area of speech act verbs. In the next section,
I shall present and discuss another type of ordering system covering a wider
variety of illocutionary verbs.
2.2.3	 Edmondson’s ordering system for directives, commissives
	 and expressives
2.2.3.1	 The structure of Edmondson’s ordering system
The ordering system proposed by Edmondson (cf. Edmondson 1981) covers more
types of speech acts and speech act verbs than Baumgärtner’s. Edmondson claims
that his analytic system includes any type of illocutionary verb except declara-
tives, verbs denoting the relationship between one speech act and another (reply,
answer and accept) and a category called “neutral representatives” under which he
subsumes a variety of verbs such as inform and predict, but also observe, say and
tell, the latter of which I would not treat as speech act verbs but rather as verbs
of communication in the sense outlined in Chapter 1. Apart from that, I would
not call representatives like inform and predict “neutral”. I shall return to these
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 41
verbs in my discussion of Edmondson’s classification system below. Edmondson
excludes these “neutral representatives”, because he does not regard them as being
distinctive. He argues that an utterance which may be described as a statement or
reply may refer to practically any state of affairs (cf. Edmondson 1981: 492).
Edmondson accounts for the relationships between illocutionary verbs, il-
locutionary acts and segments of conversational behaviour on the basis of a sys-
tematic classification of types of “external events”. These are the events and states
of affairs referred to by the utterance of a RS speaker. For example, a RS speaker
promising a hearer to do something refers to an action which he considers to
be beneficial to the hearer and which he will carry out at some point in time
subsequent to the performance of the promising act. In this case, the “external
event” would be defined as “a future action A carried out by S, where A is in the
interest of H”. Edmondson then asks which illocutionary verbs are available in
English for describing the speech act of the RS speaker and uses the distribution
of illocutionary terms to postulate what types of rule or convention govern our
conceptualisation of conversational behaviour. Edmondson’s aim is to set up sev-
eral social maxims which have explanatory force both for the lexical field covered
by a particular set of illocutionary terms and for the empirical analysis of con-
versational behaviour (cf. Edmondson 1981: 491–492). The procedure employed
by Edmondson also covers such cases where concepts are not lexicalised at all.
Clearly, such cases have to be accounted for as well. The events and states of affairs
categorised are necessarily events and states of affairs as subjectively perceived by
a speaker. Edmondson argues that this is so, because features like ‘good’ or ‘bad’
are part of the analytic system used.
Edmondson orders events and states of affairs according to the following five
features (cf. Edmondson 1981: 492–495):
1.	 [± NON-FUTURE]: The event or state of affairs A external to an utterance
which may refer to it is located in time subsequently to the utterance de-
scribed by the illocutionary term, or it is not. (Edmondson’s addition ‘external
to the utterance which may refer to it’ serves to exclude the case of explicit
performatives from his purely descriptivist analysis.)
2.	 SPEAKER VS. HEARER INVOLVEMENT IN A
3.	 [± RESPONSIBLE]: The involvement of S or H in A may be active or passive.
The critical issue here is whether or not the person S or H involved in the
event A is to be held responsible for A’s being or potentially being the case,
given his potential control over some events and the potentially controllable
nature of some events.
4.	 A is perceived as having CONSEQUENCES OR EFFECTS which are good or
bad.
42	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
5.	 The consequences or effects of A are considered to be desirable or undesirable
for either S or H.
These features are represented in the matrix below in the form of the following
binary code:
(i)	 A is/was the case (+) or will be the case (–).
(ii)	 Involved in A is either S (+) or H (–).
(iii)	The involvement of the party concerned (S or H) is such that he/she is to be
held responsible for A (+), or he/she is not to be held responsible (–).
(iv)	A is viewed as having consequences which are desirable (+) or undesirable
(–).
(v)	 The consequences of A are considered desirable or undesirable for either S
(+) or H (–).
External events are represented as combinations of values for each of the features
(i)–(v). This procedure yields a matrix with 32 feature constellations (cf. Figure 5).
Each of these represents a particular event or state of affairs which a RS speaker
refers to by the use of a particular utterance. For most of the feature constellations,
there is a corresponding set of descriptive illocutionary terms. The slots oppo-
site the different feature constellations are filled with illocutionary terms which
may be used by a DS speaker describing the act performed by the RS speaker.
Edmondson claims to have assigned these descriptive illocutionary terms to
the different feature combinations on the basis of an intuitive procedure. Where
Edmondson’s intuitions were not firm ones, this is indicated by a question-mark.
A slash separating different illocutionary verbs is intended to suggest that there is
a radical difference in meaning between the items so separated.
According to Edmondson, the distribution of illocutionary terms across the
32 category types shows certain regularities. Edmondson formulates these in
terms of a lexicalisation tendency to the effect that hearer-supportive behaviour
tends to be lexicalised, while speaker-supportive behaviour does not. More pre-
cisely, Edmondson claims that the distribution of illocutionary terms across the
spectrum of event categories (cf. Figure 5) may be explained in terms of the social
maxims listed in Figure 6 (cf. Edmondson 1981: 497).
According to Edmondson, there is a clear link between such maxims on the
one hand and the notion of politeness and Leech’s Tact Maxim on the other (cf.
Leech 1977: 19–21).
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 43
Figure 5.  Edmondson’s ordering system (from Edmondson 1981: 494)
Figure 6.  Social maxims underlying the lexicalisation of concepts of communication
44	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
2.2.3.2	 Discussion of Edmondson’s ordering system
Though pragmatic principles such as costs and benefits of speakers and hearers
may certainly be relevant to the way in which concepts of communication are
lexicalised, I doubt whether any consistent cost/benefit-pattern may be discerned
in Edmondson’s data. My objections concern the following three points:
1.	 the distribution of illocutionary terms in Edmondson’s matrix
2.	 Edmondson’s notion of costs and benefits
3.	 the difference between events involving a responsible agent and such for
which neither S nor H may be taken to be responsible.
1. The distribution of illocutionary terms
Edmondson himself comments on three points concerning the distribution of
illocutionary terms listed opposite categories (1)–(32). I list Edmondson’s com-
ments in (i)–(iii) below and add my own remarks to each of them.
(i) The number of distinctive terms suggested may be reduced. For example,
Edmondson claims that the feature ‘costs/benefits’ (feature iv) “… leads only to a
difference in polarity between the illocutionary terms available …” (Edmondson
1981: 495). Thus, the concept represented in line (25) (H involved in future state
or event – H responsible – desirable consequences for S) differs from that in (27)
(H involved in future event or state – H responsible – undesirable consequences
for S) only with respect to the cost/benefit feature, but whereas the feature con-
stellation in (25) may be lexicalised by a wide variety of directive illocutionary
terms, Edmondson claims that the one in (27) may only be expressed by the nega-
tion of these (request not to, etc.).
I object to the latter observation because of two reasons. Firstly, expressions
of the type [NEG + V] are free combinations of words, not lexicalised expressions.
These expressions are not lexicalised and hence bear no relevance to an investiga-
tion of lexicalisation patterns. As opposed to Edmondson, I would exclude any
such expression from the matrix. With respect to line (27), this would amount to
saying that the corresponding concept is not lexicalised at all. However – and this
is my second objection – in spite of what Edmondson claims, prohibit does seem
to match the feature constellation in line (27). In Edmondson’s matrix, prohibit
only figures as a lexicalisation matching the feature constellation in line (28) (H
involved in future state or event – H responsible – undesirable consequences for
H), though this verb matches the feature combination in (27) much better than
that in (28). A speaker telling a hearer not to perform some kind of action, be-
cause he considers this particular action to have undesirable consequences for the
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 45
hearer (category (28)), may properly be referred to as dissuading that hearer from
doing A rather than prohibiting him to do A.
Like the feature constellations in (25) and (27), those in lines (17) and (19)
also differ only regarding the cost/benefit feature. Edmondson proposes resolve
and undertake as relevant lexicalisations for category (17). However, undertake
does not fit the constellation in (17) (S involved in future state or event – S re-
sponsible – desirable consequences for S), but should be listed in line (18) (S in-
volved in future state or event – S responsible – desirable consequences for H),
where indeed it figures together with verbs like promise. I also argue that resolve
does not fit the constellation in (17) either, because it is not an illocutionary verb.
resolve means ‘decide to do something’ and hence denotes a mental attitude, not
the expression of it. What is missing is a lexicalisation expressing the concept SAY
(RESOLVE) or PROMISE ONESELF TO DO SOMETHING. Yet, when speakers
promise themselves to do something, they do not normally use language to per-
form the corresponding act. It would not make much sense to include cases where
people talk to themselves. Any speech act can be performed in a situation where
the speaker and the hearer are identical, but I do not consider such cases instances
of communicative situations in the sense outlined in Chapter 1.
Having excluded both undertake and resolve, I suggest renounce as a possible
lexicalisation for the feature combination in line 17: renounce is used to refer to
situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she refrains from performing a
future action which he/she considers to have desirable consequences for him- or
herself. renounce is a hybrid verb: it may be used to refer to a particular mental
state as well as the expression of that state.
There is no appropriate lexicalisation matching the feature combination in line
19 (S involved in future state or event – S responsible – undesirable consequences
for S). The slot in line 19 would have to be filled by an illocutionary equivalent of
sacrifice oneself. Such speech act verbs are lacking from the lexicon of English.
(ii) Categories (5)–(8), (13)–(16), (21)–(24) and (29)–(32) are relatively unpro-
ductive in calling for a distinctive term. This observation concerns such cases
where the feature [± RESPONSIBLE] (feature iii) is assigned a negative value. All
constellations containing a negative value for the feature [± RESPONSIBLE] rep-
resent events and states of affairs where the involvement of S or H is such that S or
H is not to be held responsible for that event or state of affairs. As Edmondson ob-
serves, the total amount of English illocutionary terms to refer to situations where
a RS speaker addresses such events or states of affairs turns out to be limited.
I agree with Edmondson as far as this general tendency is concerned but object
to some of the illocutionary terms he proposes as appropriate lexicalisations for the
corresponding concepts. My objections concern the following sets of categories:
46	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
–	 LINES (5)–(8) (S involved in past or present events/states of affairs for which
he is not to be held responsible).
The only lexicalisations which Edmondson seems to have been sure of are those
matching category (8) (sympathise and commiserate). complain and curse are first
suggested as lexicalisations matching the constellation in line (7) (past or present
event/state – S involved – undesirable consequences for S), but complain is then
rejected, because Edmondson “suspects” that complaints are directed at a respon-
sible agent. As the following examples show, this assumption is not correct:
	(13)	 This is unusual as with most other diets slimmers often complain of ‘losing it
from the parts I want to keep’; … (BNC/Rosemary Conley: Rosemary Conley’s
hip and thigh diet. London: Arrow Books Ltd. 1989)
	(14)	 What I wish to propose is that for this poor and hungry population many of
the physiological symptoms of which they complain are also symptoms of
chronic hunger. (BNC/New Internationalist; n.d.)
Opposite category 6 (S involved in past or present event/state – S not responsible –
desirable consequences for H) we find only question-marks along with a suggestion
that boast might be a relevant lexicalisation. This verb is only seldom used to refer
to states and events for which the speaker is not to be held responsible. In the vast
majority of cases, boast is used by a DS speaker to refer to the way in which a RS
speaker represents his or her own past actions. In those cases where boast is used
to refer to states and events for which the RS speaker cannot be held responsible,
these states and events typically concern aspects of that speaker’s character, his/her
physical appearance, his/her health or his/her possessions (see example (15)).
	(15)	 And there he was boasting about his age … (BNC/15 conversations with
‘Clarence’, 1992)
Such states and events do not affect any hearer at all, but relate only to the speaker
himself. For this reason, I argue that boast is not an appropriate descriptive term
for the behaviour of a RS speaker referring to an event of category (6), which in-
volves desirable consequences for H.
For category (5) too (S involved in past or present state or event – S not re-
sponsible – desirable consequences for S), it is difficult to find appropriate lexical-
isations. I reject congratulate oneself and praise oneself, because these are free com-
binations of words and not lexicalised expressions. Since no hearer is involved in
the kind of situation represented by this feature combination, boast fits in much
better here than it does opposite category (6). This category covers such cases
where a speaker boasts about his possessions or physical appearance.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 47
–	 LINES (13)–(16) (H involved in past or present events or states of affairs – H
not responsible).
sympathise and commiserate opposite category 16 are unproblematic as is con-
gratulate in line 14. compliment is listed along with congratulate but is preceded
by a question-mark, although the following example shows that compliment may
safely be listed opposite category 14 (H involved in past/present state or event – H
not to be held responsible – desirable consequences for H):
	(16)	 The governor immediately raised his glass in Flavia Sherman’s direction and
complimented her elaborately on her French ancestry and the “astonishing
combination” of her beauty and her two fine sons. (BNC/Anthony Grey:
Saigon. London: Pan Books, 1983)
In line (13), welcome is preceded by two question-marks, indicating that
Edmondson doubted whether this verb properly belongs here. The problem with
welcome is that it is used to refer to speech acts of a RS speaker addressing past
actions rather than past events. Because of this, I argue that welcome should not
be listed opposite category (13). Instead, it properly belongs in block (9), where it
should be listed along with thank and praise.
Edmondson does not list any lexicalisations at all opposite category (15). I
suggest lament and complain as relevant lexicalisations. These verbs may be used
by a DS speaker describing the act performed by a RS speaker expressing his/her
regret at the undesirable consequences resulting for him- or herself from an event
or state of affairs for which H cannot be held responsible.
–	 LINES (21)–(24) (S involved in future events or states of affairs – S not re-
sponsible).
Edmondson lists boast, though preceded by a question-mark, opposite feature
constellation (21). I argue that boast does not properly belong here, because the
event or state of affairs referred to by a RS speaker who is said to be boasting must
have begun at some point of time prior to the act of boasting. Even in such cases
where a RS speaker is boasting about the riches he/she will once inherit, some
state of affairs giving him or her reason to believe that this beneficial event will
come into being must have been in existence some time before the RS speaker can
start boasting about the beneficial consequences of this event.
I object to sympathise opposite category (24) (S involved in future event/state –
S not responsible – undesirable consequences for H). It is difficult to imagine a
situation where a RS speaker sympathises with a hearer because of the undesirable
consequences of an event which is situated entirely in the future. A RS speaker may
of course sympathise with a hearer because of some event which he/she supposes
48	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
to affect the hearer negatively at some point of time in the future. However, in such
cases, the RS speaker must already have some reason to believe that such an event
will actually take place when he/she expresses his or her sympathy. This means that
the event in question necessarily begins prior to the RS speaker’s act of expressing
his or her sympathy. I also disagree with warn in line (24), because warn is used to
refer to such states and events in which H rather than S is involved and which are
regarded as having undesirable consequences for H. This means that warn prop-
erly belongs opposite category (32), where indeed it is correctly listed.
Having excluded sympathise as well as warn, lexicalisations for categories
(21), (22), (23) and (24) are lacking altogether. Whether we treat these cases as in-
stances of lexical gaps depends on whether or not we are willing to include predict,
prophesy, foretell and announce. Edmondson excludes these verbs, because they
belong to the class he calls “neutral representatives.” Though it is true that predict,
prophesy, foretell and announce are not specified regarding the way in which the
consequences of a particular state or event are evaluated, I argue that these verbs
should be included, because they are specified with respect to at least one of the
features (i)–(v). The use of these verbs is restricted to future events. What person
is involved in A, whether S or H is responsible for A or whether A is considered
to have desirable or undesirable consequences is irrelevant to the way in which
these verbs are used. Both verbs therefore belong to all the categories relating to
future actions or events. They should not be listed, though, opposite categories
(17)–(20), because they are not likely to be used to refer to the speech act of a RS
speaker addressing one of his own future actions (represented by categories (17)–
(20)). To refer to such speech acts, a verb like announce is likely to be used instead
of one like prophesy. A speaker saying that he will perform some kind of action in
the future will be taken to be responsible for whether that action will ultimately
take place or not. However, use of a verb like prophesy implies that the RS speaker
has no control over the future action in question. Thus, a sentence like John proph-
esied that he would visit his parents is somehow anomalous. If verbs like prophesy,
predict and foretell are used to refer to actions, the agent of these actions is likely to
be H rather than S himself. If prophesy, predict and foretell are included, the matrix
in Figure 5 contains considerably fewer gaps than Edmondson assumes.
–	 LINES (29)–(32) (H involved in future events or states of affairs for which
he/she may not be held responsible).
The verb warn properly belongs opposite category (32), where it is correctly listed.
Edmondson mentions no lexicalisations covering constellations (29)–(31). For
the reasons mentioned above, I suggest predict, prophesy, foretell and announce as
illocutionary terms lexicalising the concepts represented in lines 29–32.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 49
(iii) In some cases, more than one significantly distinctive illocutionary term or
set of illocutionary terms is assigned to one category of events. This applies to
category (11) (H involved in past or present event or state of affairs – H respon-
sible – undesirable consequences for S), opposite which verbs like complain and
criticise are listed along with forgive and pardon. These two sets of verbs differ
regarding the attitude of the speaker towards the hearer. In an act of excusing or
forgiving, S overlooks his/her own costs, but in an act of complaining or criticis-
ing he/she does not.
Significantly different illocutionary terms may also be assigned to category
(18) (S involved in future event or state of affairs – S responsible – desirable conse-
quences for H), where the difference between OFFER and PROMISE may be stat-
ed in terms of the absence or presence of a speaker’s belief that the hearer wishes
that S do A. Where the speaker does not know of any such previous wish by the
hearer, he can only offer the hearer to do something (cf. Edmondson 1981: 496; cf.
also Baumgärtner 1977: 268).
Apart from the amendments I have proposed for the categories already men-
tioned, I suggest the following additional changes:
–	 The verb warn does not match category (20) (S involved in future state or
event – S responsible – undesirable consequences for H). Where warn is used
by a RS speaker to refer to a situation corresponding to this feature constel-
lation, the RS speaker may be said to perform an act of threatening, not one
of warning. warn is typically used by a RS speaker addressing a future event/
state in which the hearer rather than the speaker himself is involved. threaten
is correctly listed opposite category (20).
–	 The nouns self-commiseration and self-criticism, both preceded by a question-
mark, should be deleted from line (3), because they denote the result of the
acts of commiserating with oneself and criticising oneself respectively and do
not refer to speech acts. Lexical expressions for the corresponding acts do not
exist (*self-commiserate, *self-criticise). I suggest verbs like regret and repent
as relevant lexicalisations matching category (3) (S involved in present/past
state or event – S responsible – undesirable consequences for S). regret – but
not repent – may also be listed along with apologise opposite category (4) (S
involved in past/present state or event – S responsible – undesirable conse-
quences for H).
Taking into account all the alternatives and corrections I have proposed so far, a
revised version of Edmondson’s matrix would turn out to contain many lexicalisa-
tions different from those originally suggested. Since the lexicalisation principles
formulated by Edmondson were based on the distribution of illocutionary terms
50	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
across the different event types, these principles may need to be revised if the
distribution of illocutionary terms proves to be different. In Figure 7, I represent
my own version of Edmondson’s matrix. I shall then examine whether this revised
version of Edmondson’s matrix supports or falsifies the lexicalisation tendency
proposed.
Below, I shall explain which patterns of behaviour I count as hearer- or spea­
ker-supportive. Assuming for the moment that my considerations about the hear-
er- or speaker-supportiveness of communicative behaviour are correct, the re-
vised version of the matrix yields 12 cases which confirm the alleged lexicalisation
tendency (H-supportive behaviour which is lexicalised) and 9 which contradict it
(S-supportive behaviour which is lexicalised). There are 8 cases which cannot be
Figure 7.  Revised version of Edmondson’s ordering system
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 51
used to confirm or contradict the tendency proposed either because the type of
communicative behaviour referred to is neither speaker- nor hearer-supportive
or because lexicalisations are lacking for practical reasons. Categories (3), (11)
and (32) do not allow any predictions to be made either, because some of the
verbs corresponding to these categories lexicalise speaker-supportive behaviour
while others support hearer-supportive behaviour. On the whole, these results do
not support the lexicalisation tendencies proposed: It is not the case that hearer-
supportive behaviour tends to be lexicalised while speaker-supportive behaviour
tends not to, at least not if speaker- and hearer supportive behaviour is defined
in Edmondson’s terms. Neither does there seem to be a correlation between the
hearer- or speaker-supportiveness of communicative behaviour and the degree of
semantic specificity of a given lexical item or between hearer- or speaker-support-
iveness and the richness of a given lexical field. I shall come back to correlations
of this type in the next chapter.
2. The notion of costs and benefits
Although the distinction between hearer- and speaker-supportive communica-
tive behaviour is central to the lexicalisation tendency proposed, Edmondson
does not explain which patterns of communicative behaviour count as speaker-
or hearer-supportive and why.
Only a small number of the speech acts represented in Figure 6 may unam-
biguously be classified as being either hearer- or speaker-supportive. Instances of
communicative behaviour which are clearly hearer-supportive are represented by
categories (10), (14), (18) and (26). These share the value ‘+’ for feature (iv) (i.e.
‘desirable consequences’) and the value ‘–’ for feature (v) (i.e. ‘hearer’). Speaker-
supportive speech acts are represented by categories (1), (5), (13), (21) and (25),
which all share the value ‘+’ for features (iv) and (v) (i.e. desirable consequences
for S). This does not mean, though, that all lexical expressions listed opposite
categories characterised by these combinations of values should automatically be
taken to lexicalise speaker- or hearer-supportive behaviour. Examples are boast
opposite category (2) and thank opposite category (9). Acts of boasting are spea­
ker-supportive regardless of whether S or H benefits from the consequences of the
event or state of affairs involved. Where benefits to H accrue (category (2)), S still
emphasises his or her own merit in bringing this beneficial event or state of affairs
.	 Speaker-supportive behaviour which is lexicalised is represented by blocks 1, 2, 5, 7, 15,
21, 25, 27 and 29. Block 13 represents speaker-supportive behaviour which is not lexicalised.
Hearer-supportive behaviour is captured by blocks 4, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 22, 26, 28, and 30.
Categories 3, 6, 11, 17, 19, 20, 23, 24, 31 and 32 neither support not contradict the tendency
proposed.
52	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
into being. Thus, even in such cases where benefits accrue to H, the act of boasting
is speaker-supportive. Conversely, acts of thanking are always hearer-supportive.
In an act of thanking (category (9)), the RS speaker refers to a situation which is
or was beneficial to him- or herself, but S acknowledges H’s executional costs in
bringing A into being. This means that, ultimately, acts of thanking are always
hearer-supportive. The lexicalisations in blocks (2) and (9) show that we cannot
simply rely on the characterisation of the category types when we have to de-
cide whether the behaviour lexicalised by the corresponding lexical expressions is
hearer- or speaker-supportive.
Some other speech acts are speaker- or hearer-supportive in a rather more
indirect way. This is true of some of those acts where the event referred to by
the RS speaker involves undesirable consequences for either S or H. In an act of
apologising (category (4)), for example, a RS speaker refers to an event or state
of affairs involving undesirable consequences for H, but the behaviour of a RS
speaker expressing his/her sorrow for a hearer negatively affected by the conse-
quences of some state or event may be considered “indirectly hearer-supportive”.
Communicative behaviour which is hearer-supportive in this way is represented
by categories (4), (8), (12), (16), (28), (32) and the excusatory acts represented
by category (11). Conversely, acts of prohibiting (category (27)) involve an event
which the speaker considers to have undesirable consequences for him- or her-
self. By prohibiting H to bring this event into being, S intends to prevent him- or
herself from being affected by these undesirable effects. S’s behaviour may there-
fore be said to be speaker-supportive. The act of prohibiting is the only act which
is speaker-supportive in this way.
For some acts, it is altogether difficult to determine whether they represent
instances of speaker- or hearer-supportive behaviour. Category (3), for example,
represents a situation involving undesirable consequences for S. Should the be-
haviour of a speaker expressing his/her regret at the negative consequences of
his or her own past action be classified as being “speaker-supportive”? If we treat
this case as we treated acts of apologising (category (4)), this would be the prop-
er way to deal with this category. In much the same way, the behaviour of a RS
speaker referring to an event of categories (7) and (15) may be said to represent
S-supportive behaviour (category (7): S involved in present or past event or state
of affairs – S not responsible – undesirable consequences for S; category (15): H
involved in present or past state or event – H not responsible – undesirable con-
sequences for H)). A similar problem arises where a RS speaker’s utterance refers
to a future event for which neither S nor H may be held responsible. Should such
speech acts be classified as speaker-supportive wherever the future event referred
to is considered to have desirable consequences for S and hearer-supportive wher-
ever it involves desirable consequences for H? Assuming that they should, hearer-
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 53
supportive behaviour is captured in lines (18), (22), (26) and (30), while catego-
ries (21), (25) and (29) represent speaker-supportive behaviour.
It is not clear how Edmondson treats patterns of communicative behaviour
which support neither S nor H but have undesirable consequences for one of them.
Acts of threatening, for example, are altogether undesirable for H, but not neces-
sarily desirable or undesirable for S. All we can say about such acts is that they are
certainly not H-supportive. The same is true of acts where a RS speaker addresses
a future event which the RS speaker believes to have undesirable consequences
for either S or H. The behaviour of a RS speaker referring to a future event with
undesirable consequences for S or H is neither speaker- nor hearer-supportive.
Edmondson’s claims make no predictions about how such behaviour is lexicalised
nor does he explain how these cases influence the patterns he observed.
Finally, to such cases where lexicalisations are lacking because of practical
reasons, the labels “speaker-” or “hearer-supportive” are simply irrelevant.
Although Edmondson does not explain what he means by “speaker- or hear-
er-supportive conversational behaviour”, he does comment on the most promi-
nent counterexamples to his claims. He recognises, for example, that cases (2)
and (6) represent instances of speaker-supportive behaviour but claims that ap-
propriate lexicalisations for these acts are lacking altogether. As I have argued
above, relevant lexicalisations for category (6) (S involved in past or present event
or state – S not responsible – desirable consequences for H) are indeed lacking.
However, boast properly lexicalises the concept of a speech act where a RS speaker
refers to an event of category (2) (S involved in past or present state or event – S
responsible – desirable consequences for H). Since case (2) represents patterns of
conversational behaviour which is S-supportive, the presence of boast opposite
this category contradicts Edmondson’s claims.
Edmondson also calls the presence of the non-excusatory items for category
(11) (H involved in past or present event or state of affairs – H responsible – unde-
sirable consequences for S) and the items for category (25) (H involved in future
event or state of affairs – H responsible – undesirable consequences for S) “mani-
festly inconsistent with an alleged H-supportive maxim.” He justifies the presence
of the relevant items for these categories as follows:
… without such activities as ‘Requesting’ and ‘Complaining’ the possibility of
social co-operation or social retribution would scarcely exist. There is always a
tension in any social encounter between the impulse towards contact with oth-
ers and the impulse towards the defense of self: this tension is, in very simplistic
terms, at the basis of the complex rituals we develop in conversational behaviour
and elsewhere. It is for this reason that two different “values” are found appropri-
ate to category 11, and also for category 18, as an act A of type 18 although clearly
H-supportive is nonetheless a potential infringement on H’s territory – “costs” in
54	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
terms of privacy, self-determination and so on are implicit in the notion of doing
something on somebody else’s behalf.  (Edmondson 1981: 497)
To justify the presence of lexicalisations for S-supportive speech acts, Edmond-
son points to the rich variety of terms available for referring to the S-supportive
acts of categories (11) and (25) (COMPLAIN, REQUEST etc.). He attributes the
lexical richness of these paradigms to the “potential indirectness of execution”
of the corresponding acts, arguing that S-supportive acts like COMPLAIN and
REQUEST are characterised by a “potential indirectness of execution” in a way
that H-supportive acts like APOLOGISE and THANK are not. Edmondson also
claims that lexical richness and indirectness of execution apply to verbs like offer,
but not to verbs like promise although these two sets of verbs are both listed oppo-
site category (18). According to Edmondson, this difference may be accounted for
if we assume that a speaker promising a hearer to do something knows or believes
that H is in favour of S’s doing A. For this reason, indirectness is unwarranted in
the case of promising acts (cf. Edmondson 1981: 498).
Granted that there may be a link between indirectness and lexical richness, it
is not true that there are always more verbs for referring to acts which allow for
negotiations between S and H. Acts of dissuading (category (28)), for example,
are clearly H-supportive, but they also involve a potential infringement on H’s
territory. This makes acts of dissuading good candidates for indirectness. Yet, only
one verb (dissuade) is available for referring to the corresponding act. Addition-
ally, these cases where S-supportive behaviour is lexicalised do not necessarily
involve indirectness. This is true of acts of boasting, for example, which do not
leave much room for negotiations between S and H.
If the counterexamples discussed by Edmondson were the only exceptions to
his claims, they would not seriously challenge the plausibility of the maxims he
proposes to explain the lexicalisation of communication concepts. However, even
if we accept Edmondson’s list of illocutionary verbs as well as the way he distrib-
utes these across the 32 category types, there are many more counterexamples to
his claims than he himself mentions. As I have pointed out above, there are almost
as many cases where S-supportive behaviour is lexicalised as such where H-sup-
portive behaviour is lexicalised. I cannot think of any way how those cases where
S-supportive behaviour is lexicalised may be made to fit in with Edmondson’s
explanation of the lexicalisation of communication concepts.
3. The difference between actions and events
The cost-benefit explanation as it is applied by Edmondson does not always prop-
erly account for the difference between events for which S or H may be held re-
sponsible and such where he/she may not. In both types of events, costs or ben-
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 55
efits are relevant only where the person involved in a particular event may also
be held responsible for bringing that event into being. For this reason, I object
to treating categories (2) and (6) as well as categories (9) and (13) similarly. The
event type represented by the feature constellation in line (13) (H involved in
past or present state or event – H not responsible – desirable consequences for
S), for example, resembles that represented by category (9) (H involved in past
or present state or event – H responsible – desirable consequences for S) in that
both event types are beneficial to S. In spite of this, the behaviour of a speaker
referring to an event of category (9) is hearer-supportive, because S acknowledges
H’s executional costs in bringing this event into being. Edmondson claims that
case (13) may be handled similarly. I disagree with this claim, because in this case
H is not responsible for bringing A into being. For this reason, H does not have
any executional costs. This difference also applies to categories (2) and (6), which
differ with respect to whether or not S is responsible for a past or present state or
event he/she is involved in and which has desirable consequences for H. In what
follows, I shall refer to events for which S or H may be held responsible as “ac-
tions”; events or states of affairs for which neither S nor H can be held responsible
will be subsumed under the label “events”.
2.2.3.3	 Lexicalisation tendencies
Though the data in the revised version of the matrix do not support Edmondson’s
claims, the distribution of illocutionary verbs across the 32 event types is not
completely random. The following patterns may be discerned:
–	 The meaning of directives and commissives is more highly specified than
that of other illocutionary verbs. Directives occur opposite categories 25–28,
commissives opposite categories 17–20. Each of these predicates occurs in
only one slot. This means that they may be used to describe only one type of
speech act. Some other verbs such as welcome and apologise are also semanti-
cally highly specified, but these are exceptions within the class of expressives.
In the case of directives and commissives, the high degree of semantic speci-
ficity is a property of the whole class, not just of some of its members.
–	 The paradigms of directive and commissive predicates are lexically richer
than those of other illocutionary verbs; they include a larger number of non-
synonymous verbs.
–	 The meaning of representatives with future reference is less specific than that
of other illocutionary verbs. This is reflected by the fact that the verbs predict,
prophesy, foretell and announce may be used to describe the speech act per-
formed by a speaker referring to a future event of any type. These verbs may
be inserted into any slot opposite categories 17–32.
56	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
On the basis of these observations, I suggest that the tendencies listed in Figure
8 above are relevant to the lexicalisation of conversational behaviour (cf. Proost
2001: 111).
These lexicalisation principles are likely to be culture-specific. In modern
Western societies, future actions, especially such which are to the interest of ei-
ther S or H, are highly relevant to the interactions of speakers and hearers. It is
therefore not surprising that speakers need a sufficiently large number of highly
specialised expressions to describe that and how some speaker S binds himself or
the hearer to the performance of some future action. Future events for which nei-
ther S nor H may be held responsible are not equally relevant to the way in which
speakers and hearers cooperate. Since neither S nor H is able to foresee such fu-
ture events and neither S nor H plays an active role in bringing these events into
being, it does not make sense for S or H to negotiate about them.
Obviously, an explanation in terms of social relevance need not hold for all
types of society. In a society where magic is assigned a high cultural value, future
events for which neither S nor H may be held responsible may be highly relevant.
If my explanation is correct, the lexicon of the language spoken in such a society
would contain many highly specialised expressions for the description of future
events. Possibly, these languages would also have fewer expressions to refer to fu-
ture actions. In the light of these observations, we would certainly expect the pat-
tern found for English illocutionary verbs to be repeated in the lexicon of German
and Dutch and of that of other languages. In the next section, the results obtained
for English will be compared with the distribution of German, Dutch, French,
Russian and Turkish illocutionary terms across the 32 categories of Edmondson’s
matrix.
2.2.3.4	 A cross-linguistic comparison of lexicalisation tendencies
All lexicalisation tendencies observed so far for English can also be found in the
lexicon of German, Dutch, French, Russian and Turkish (the data for these lan-
guages are included in part I of the Appendix):
Figure 8.  Tendencies in the lexicalisation of conversational behaviour
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 57
1.	 Directives and commissives are the most specific and representatives with
future reference the least specific predicates in each of the six languages.
2.	 Concepts which are not lexicalised in one language are generally not lexi-
calised in any of the other languages either. None of the three languages pos-
sesses lexical expressions to fill blocks 19 and 6. The absence of lexical items
opposite category 6 (past event or state of affairs; S not responsible; desirable
consequences for H) is likely to be a matrix product. The combination of fea-
tures in this slot may hardly be taken to represent a concept: it is difficult to
imagine a situation where a speaker boasts of the benefits of some past or
present event, if it is clear that S is not responsible for bringing about the
benefits resulting from that event. Lexicalisations in block 6 are blocked be-
cause of logical principles. The gap in block 19 (future event or state of affairs;
S responsible; undesirable consequences for S) is more difficult to explain.
Speech act equivalents of expressions like sacrifice oneself are missing from
the lexicon of English, German, Dutch, French, Russian and Turkish. This
gap may possibly be explained in terms of the social maxims formulated by
Edmondson. A RS speaker referring to the negative consequences of one of
his or her own future actions would violate the first of the concomitant max-
ims, which states that speakers should suppress their own costs and benefits.
Under this explanation, lexicalisation in block 19 would be blocked because
of principles of communication ethics.
	 English, German, Dutch, French, Russian and Turkish differ slightly with
respect to the distribution of other lexical gaps. Examples are speech acts
whereby a speaker expresses a positive or negative evaluation of a future event
or state of affairs. Future events or states which a speaker evaluates as having
undesirable consequences may be referred to by special illocutionary terms
in German (unken), Russian (karkat) and Turkish (kötümsemek), but such
verbs are lacking from the lexicon of English, Dutch and French. Unlike the
other five languages, Turkish possesses special illocutionary terms to refer
to speech acts whereby a speaker expresses a positive evaluation of a future
event or state of affairs: the complex expression ağazını hayra açmak means
‘prophesy a beneficial event’ while the verb müjdelemek lexicalises not only
the desirable consequences of a future event, but also the beneficiary of these
desirable consequences (H). The person affected by the undesirable conse-
quences of a future action or event does not get lexicalised in either German,
Russian or Turkish. English, Dutch and French speech act verbs do not differ-
entiate between positive and negative evaluations of a future action or event.
	 Taken together, the results for the six languages indicate that individual lan-
guages may vary considerably in the lexicalisation of concepts of representa-
tive speech acts whose propositional content is a future event: positive evalua-
58	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
tions do not get lexicalised in any of the Indo-European languages examined,
but negative evaluations are lexicalised in some of them. In Turkish, positive
evaluations are lexicalised as well as negative ones. These findings indicate
that the lexicalisation of speech act evaluations may be culture-specific.
3.	 Idioms and collocations show the same pattern of occurrence in each of the
six languages. Collocations almost always occur as synonyms of verbs, while
idioms occur only seldom. Cases of concepts which are lexicalised by a verb
and a collocation in one language and by an idiom in another are rare. In
Turkish, concepts are often lexicalised by collocations instead of verbs. Con-
sequently, collocations are much more frequent in the Turkish data than they
are in those of any of the other languages.
2.2.3.5	 Potential explanations for the occurrence of lexical gaps
The distribution of English, German, Dutch, French, Russian and Turkish illocu-
tionary terms across the 32 categories of Edmonson’s matrix yields three types of
lexical gaps. Some of these seem to be part of larger patterns:
1.	 Descriptive illocutionary expressions referring to the speech act of a RS
speaker addressing a future action of S with undesirable consequences for
S are lacking altogether (block 19). There are no illocutionary equivalents of
expressions like English sacrifice oneself (German sich aufopfern; Dutch zich
opofferen).
2.	 Illocutionary terms referring to representative speech acts whose proposi-
tional content is a future action or event which is regarded as having desirable
consequences for either S or H exist only in Turkish (blocks 17/18, 21/22,
25/26, 29/30). In the other languages, the relevant speech acts are referred to
by more general expressions such as English predict (German vorhersagen;
Dutch voorspellen).
3.	 Illocutionary terms lexicalising representative speech acts whose proposi-
tional content is a future action or event with undesirable consequences for
either S or H are lacking in English, Dutch and French. In German, Russian
and Turkish, these speech acts are lexicalised by simple as well as complex
illocutionary expressions (blocks 19/20, 23/24, 17/18, 31/32).
Case 1 concerns the lexicalisation of concepts of commissive speech acts, which
correspond to the feature combinations in 17–20. There are no lexicalisations
for commissive speech acts involving undesirable consequences for S (block 19).
Commissives involving undesirable consequences for H may only be referred to
by threaten. Though a speaker threatening a hearer does indeed refer to an event
with undesirable consequences for H, threaten is used to refer to situations in
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 59
which a speaker expresses his intention to perform the intended action only if the
hearer is not willing to fulfil a certain condition C. Since the feature combination
opposite threaten in Edmondson’s matrix does not make reference to any such
condition, it does not provide an adequate description of the meaning of this verb.
There is also only one verb (renounce) which may be used to refer to commissive
speech acts whose propositional content (an action to be performed by S) is in the
interest of (and may therefore be considered to be desirable to) the speaker him-
self. Commissive speech acts whose propositional content is in the interest of (and
hence desirable to) the hearer may be referred to by a large variety of predicates
such as promise, vow, guarantee, etc. If undesirable consequences of P are taken to
be “costs” and desirable consequences of P “benefits”, the lexicalisation pattern of
concepts of commissive speech acts may be represented as in Figure 9a.
Directive speech acts correspond to the feature combinations in (25)–(28).
There are only two verbs (prohibit and forbid) which may be used to refer to unde-
sirable consequences arising from H’s performing A. Though a speaker forbidding
(or prohibiting) a hearer to do something does indeed refer to a future action of H
which has undesirable consequences for himself, acts of forbidding (or prohibit-
ing) someone to do something may also be seen as having desirable consequences
resulting to S from H’s not performing A. What proves to be problematic at this
point is that Edmondsons’s ordering system is in fact a classification of event types
referred to by speech act verbs rather than a classification of speech acts: The event
type referred to by a speaker forbidding or prohibiting a hearer to do something
involves undesirable consequences to S, while the act of forbidding (or prohibit-
ing) involves benefits arising to S from H’s not performing A. The same is true of
dissuade. On the one hand, a speaker dissuading a hearer to do something refers
Figure 9a.  Commissive speech acts: Lexicalisation of costs and benefits
60	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
to an event type he considers to have undesirable consequences for H. On the
other hand, the act of dissuading involves benefits arising to H from his not doing
A. Desirable consequences arising from directive speech acts to S or H may be
referred to by a large variety of predicates such as request (desirable consequences
for S) or advise (desirable consequences for H). If undesirable consequences of P
are taken to be “costs” and desirable consequences of P “benefits”, the lexicalisa-
tion of concepts of directive speech acts shows the pattern as in Figure 9b.
Given that commissive and directive speech acts involve two types of costs,
namely S’s or H’s costs of performing an action A as well as costs resulting from
S’s or H’s performing A, the lexicalisation of directive and commissive speech act
concepts may be governed by the lexicalisation tendencies represented in Figure
10 above.
Figure 9b.  Directive speech acts: Lexicalisation of costs and benefits
Figure 10.  Tendencies in the lexicalisation of directive and commissive speech
act concepts
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 61
Explanation
Directive speech acts always involve H’s costs of performing an action A as well
as benefits arising to S from H’s performing A. The concept of a balance of costs
and benefits to S and H is lexicalised by a large range of predicates such as request,
demand, order, beg and beseech. Directives like advise also lexicalise the concept
of a balance of costs and benefits: they are used to refer to H’s costs of perform-
ing A as well as the benefits arising to H from his/her performing A. By contrast,
verbs like prohibit, forbid and dissuade only refer to costs: prohibit and forbid are
used to refer to H’s costs of performing A as well as the costs accruing to S from
H’s performing A; speech acts referred to by dissuade involve not only H’s costs in
performing A but also costs accruing to H from his doing A.
Commissive speech acts always involve S’s costs of performing A as well as
the benefits arising to H from S’s performing A. The concept of a balance of costs
and benefits of S and H is lexicalised by a large variety of commissive predicates
such as promise, vow and guarantee. The verb renounce also lexicalises the concept
of a balance of costs and benefits: It is used to refer to S’s costs of not performing
A as well as the benefits that would arise to S if he did perform A. By contrast,
threaten only refers to costs (S’s costs in performing A as well as the costs accruing
to H from S’s doing A). Similarly, speech act equivalents of sacrifice oneself would
refer not only to S’s costs in performing A but also to the negative consequences
which arise to S from his/her doing A.
Costs and benefits of speakers and hearers do not provide an appropriate ex-
planation for the gaps in the paradigm of representatives with future reference
(cases 2 and 3). The data gathered from the six languages compared in the matrix
show that Indo-European languages differ with respect to the lexicalisation of
concepts of representative speech acts whose propositional content is a future
action, event or state of affairs which is considered to have desirable or undesir-
able consequences for either S or H. English, Dutch and French representatives
with future reference do not differentiate between positive and negative evalu-
ations of P. When such evaluations do get lexicalised, the corresponding verbs
express negative rather than positive evaluations. Why should this be the case?
Possibly, future actions, events and states of affairs which are considered to be
disadvantageous have a higher relevance value than those which are supposed
to be advantageous. Particularly, they may be more important from a practical
point of view: a speaker may want to inform H of such an event, because he or she
may think that H should be prepared for it (even if its undesirable consequences
concern S) or that H might want to do something to prevent it from happening.
This may be the reason why speakers need to talk of them more often than of
future actions, events or states of affairs involving desirable consequences. The
necessity of talking about these events may explain why languages possess lexi-
62	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
cal items to refer to them. Future actions or events which are considered to have
desirable consequences do not have the same practical relevance. What counts
as relevant may be culture-specific or specific to a particular speech community.
For speakers of Turkish, future actions, events or states of affairs with desirable
consequences and those which are considered to have undesirable consequences
may be equally relevant. To speakers of English, Dutch or French, the distinction
between positive and negative evaluations associated with future actions or events
may be irrelevant.
Alternatively, the lexicalisation pattern observed may be explained in terms
of markedness. For speakers of languages like Russian and German, expressing
a negative evaluation of a future action, event or state of affairs may be a pattern
of communicative behaviour which counts as marked. By contrast, expressing a
positive evaluation of a future action, event or state of affairs may be the normal
or expected pattern of behaviour for speakers of these languages and may there-
fore be regarded as being unmarked. Possibly, languages possess more lexical
items for speech acts which count as marked than for such which are regarded as
being unmarked. The plausibility of a Principle of Markedness as a more general
lexicalisation principle will be discussed in Chapter 3.
So far, costs and benefits of speakers and hearers, relevance and markedness
have been suggested as factors which may prove to govern the lexicalisation of
concepts of communication. Cognitive principles too could turn out to be rel-
evant if a larger set of data were taken into account. Any ordering system for
concepts of communication should provide many more slots than those provided
by Edmondson’s matrix. In Edmondson’s ordering system, verbs like dissuade and
allow all occur in the same slot, because they may all be used to refer to the speech
act of a RS speaker addressing a future action of H with undesirable consequences
for H. Yet, these verbs are used to refer to different situations. Additional catego-
ries are required to differentiate their meanings. An ordering system based on a
larger number of conceptual categories would also contain a larger number of
gaps, some of which may call for a cognitive explanation rather than for an expla-
nation in terms of pragmatic principles.
2.2.3.6	 Lexical gaps and idiomatic speech act expressions
To conclude this section, I return to the question of whether Edmondson’s order-
ing system may be used for the purposes of this study. Given that it is the aim
of this study to cover the entire lexicalisation domain of concepts of communi-
cation, I argue that Edmondson’s analytical system does not provide us with an
adequate means to answer any of the crucial questions. First and foremost, it does
not even cover all actually existing illocutionary verbs. The following types of
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 63
verbs provide examples of cases which are left unaccounted for by Edmondson’s
ordering system:
(i) Representatives such as lie, claim and deny, which lexicalise the attitude of a
speaker taking the proposition of his utterance to be true (or false). The only rep-
resentatives whose meanings may be described by features (i)–(v) are such which
are used for reference to future events. It is therefore surprising that Edmondson
excludes these predicates, arguing that they are “neutral”. I disagree with this view,
because these predicates are specified with respect to at least three parameters:
temporal reference, S’s propositional attitude (‘S knows: P’) and the speaker’s in-
tention (‘S wants: H know P’). Edmondson’s view of “neutral” representatives ap-
plies to verbs like say, tell and observe (though I would certainly not classify these
as representatives), but not to verbs like predict, foretell and announce, which are
true representatives.
(ii) Reactive or re-reactive predicates. In Edmondson’s system, the position which
a given utterance occupies within a sequence of utterances cannot be taken into
account. Yet, the position of an utterance is part of a speaker’s presuppositions
about the nature of the resource situation. Speaker presuppositions cannot be ac-
counted for by Edmondson’s classification. The position of the utterance referred
to is one of the factors distinguishing the meaning of predicates like request on
the one hand and allow or forbid on the other. In Edmondson’s matrix, these verbs
are distinguished on the basis of feature (iv) (positive vs. negative consequences of
A), but differences in terms of position cannot be accounted for.
(iii) Predicates lexicalising the presupposition of S that P is expectable or not ex-
pectable. In Edmondson’s matrix, warn and recommend are correctly differenti-
ated on the basis of feature (iv) (positive vs. negative consequences of a future
event A), but the expectability of P is a further factor distinguishing these two
predicates. warn is used to refer to situations where P is to be expected, while rec-
ommend is used to describe the speech act of a speaker trying to get H to perform
some action P which H would not have done in the normal course of events, i.e.
P is not to be expected. Edmondson’s ordering system ignores differences in the
expectability of P.
(iv) Directives like ask (in the sense of ‘ask for information’). In spite of the fact
that features (i)–(v) suffice to cover the meaning of many directive predicates, di-
rectives like ask (in the sense of ‘ask for information’) cannot be captured. This is
due to the fact that the epistemic attitude of the hearer as perceived by the speaker
(‘H knows: P’) is an essential element of the meaning of ask (in the intended
64	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
sense). The epistemic attitude of the hearer is not part of the features constituting
Edmondson’s ordering system.
On the whole, we can conclude that Edmondson’s system captures only predicates
whose meaning contains some kind of evaluative component. For this reason,
most directive, commissive and expressive predicates may be included. However,
even in these cases more features are required to account for the more fine-grained
differences between single predicates of each of these groups. Edmondson’s ap-
proach proves to be entirely unsatisfactory for verbs which do not contain any such
evaluative component as a part of their meaning. The system is altogether insen-
sitive to the meaning of representative predicates. Any study operating with this
type of ordering system will therefore necessarily yield results which are relevant
to the classes of directive, commissive and expressive predicates only. Edmondson’s
system does not allow any predictions to be made with respect to representative
illocutionary verbs. Additionally, the meaning of verbs of communication cannot
be described at all.
Given that many of the parameters relevant to the meaning of illocutionary
verbs are lacking from Edmondson’s system, the system cannot be an adequate
means to cover all of the relevant lexical gaps. Apart from that, only a very small
number of idiomatic speech act expressions can be inserted into the slots op-
posite categories (1)–(32) of Edmondsons’s matrix. Those which can be inserted
into these slots are synonymous with the illocutionary verbs listed. Yet, the large
majority of English idiomatic speech act expressions does not fit into the slots
opposite categories (1)–(32). This finding suggests that the meaning of idiomatic
speech act expressions differs substantially from that of speech act verbs.
In spite of my objections to Edmondson’s procedure, the idea that the costs
and benefits of speakers and hearers are relevant to the way in which concepts of
communication are lexicalised seems plausible. Costs and benefits are likely to be
relevant wherever verb meanings involve an evaluative component. They are most
likely to play a role in the lexicalisation of concepts of communication relating to
directive and commissive speech acts. Such speech acts contain evaluations which
are part of the speaker’s presuppositions and may therefore be called “implicit”
evaluations (cf. Harras 2006: 99–102). Since these implicit evaluations are of the
form ‘P in the interest of S or H’, they can be related to the costs and benefits of S
and H in a straightforward way. The evaluations lexicalised by expressive predi-
cates are explicit. Explicit evaluations are of the form ‘S considers: P good/bad’.
Such evaluations are supposed instead of presupposed. As we have seen before, the
cost/benefit-analysis does not apply to expressives as it does to directives and com-
missives. To representatives it does not apply at all. On the whole, Edmondson’s
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 65
analysis shows that different lexicalisation principles are likely to be relevant to
different classes of illocutionary verbs.
2.2.3.7	 A comparison of Edmondson’s and Baumgärtner’s ordering systems
Compared to Baumgärtner’s ordering system, the one proposed by Edmondson
covers a larger number of illocutionary verb classes as well as a larger number
of illocutionary verbs. Yet, Baumgärtner’s system, which is restricted to direc-
tives and commissives, covers a larger number of verbs within each of these two
classes and draws more fine-grained distinctions between the meaning of indi-
vidual predicates. This is due to the fact that Baumgärtner includes many more
parameters relevant to the meaning of directives and commissives than Edmond-
son does for the four classes of illocutionary verbs dealt with in his study. Con-
sequently, Baumgärtner’s system provides a much more reliable basis for a sys-
tematic study of lexical gaps. A comparison of the ordering systems discussed so
far suggests that the purposes of this study require an ordering system along the
lines of Baumgärtner’s proposal. Since Baumgärtner’s system only captures the
meaning of directive and commissive predicates, the number of the parameters
included will have to be considerably increased if the whole lexicalisation domain
of communication concepts is to be covered. In the next section I shall discuss
which parameters are required if all illocutionary verbs are to be included and in
what way these may be used to capture the meaning of actually existing as well as
possible but non-existing illocutionary verbs.
2.2.4	 Harras’ ordering system for concepts of communication
2.2.4.1	 The common semantic core of speech act verbs and verbs
	 of communication
The conceptual system discussed in this section was developed by Harras. It
serves as the conceptual basis of the classification of speech act verbs and verbs of
communication presented in the Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsverben (cf.
Harras et al. 2004). (Extensive discussions of this ordering system may be found
in Harras 1994; Harras & Winkler 1994; Harras 1995; Winkler 1996; Harras 1998;
Winkler 2001; Proost 2004: 295–299 and Proost 2006b: 651–652). The conceptual
ordering system used in the Handbuch is based on the so-called “general resource
situation type”. This is a situation type which involves the use of language and is
characterised by the presence of four situation roles: a speaker, a hearer, a complex
communicative attitude of the speaker and an utterance which – in the prototypi-
cal case – contains a proposition (cf. Figure 11 below).
66	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
These four elements are part of any situation referred to by speech act verbs
and constitute the unifying feature of the meaning of these verbs (cf. Verschueren
1980: 51–57 & 1985: 39–40; Wierzbicka 1986: 17–19; Harras et al. 2004: 9–22).
Special types of situations referred to by speech act verbs are called “special re-
source situation types”.
2.2.4.2	 Special resource situation types
Special resource situation types constitute the framework for the classification of
different types of speech act verbs. They are built up from specifications of the role
of the utterance and of that of the speaker attitudes, which are both elements of the
general resource situation type. I distinguish among three types of specifications:
categorial aspects, attributes, and attribute values. Categorial aspects are specifi-
cations of the role of the utterance and of that of the speaker attitudes. The role
of the speaker attitudes may be specified by the categorial aspects of the speaker’s
propositional attitude, the speaker’s intention and the speaker’s presuppositions,
while the role of the utterance is specified by the categorial aspect of the proposi-
tional content. The categorial aspects of the speaker’s propositional attitude may
be further specified by attributes such as ‘epistemic’, ‘evaluative’ and ‘emotive’. Pos-
sible values for these attitudes are ‘S knows: P’ and ‘S takes to be true: P’ (for
the attribute ‘epistemic’), ‘S considers: P good/bad’ (for the attribute ‘evaluative’)
and ‘S feels joy/anger/sorrow because of P’ (for the attribute ‘emotive’). Specifica-
tions of the speaker’s intention include attributes such as ‘epistemic attitude of
H’ (which may be further specified by values like ‘S wants: H know: P’, ‘S wants:
H recognise: S takes to be true: P’) and ‘reference to action of H’ (which may be
assigned values such as ‘S wants: H do: P’ and ‘S wants: H not do: P’). Examples
of specifications of the categorial aspect of the speaker’s presuppositions are the
attribute of the utterance position (with the possible values ‘initial’, ‘reactive’ and
‘re-reactive’), the attribute of the expectability of P (which may be assigned values
like ‘P expectable’ or ‘P not expectable’) and the attribute of the interests of S and
Figure 11.  The elements of the general resource situation type
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 67
H (which may be specified by values such as ‘not in the interest of H: P’ and ‘in the
interest of S: P’). The categorial aspect of the propositional content, which speci-
fies the role of the utterance, may be further specified by the attributes of the event
type of P (which may be assigned the values ‘action’, ‘event’ or ‘state of affairs’), the
temporal reference of P (with the possible values ‘[+Past]’ and ‘[–Past]’), and – in
the case that P is an action – the attribute of the agent of P (which may be assigned
values such as ‘S’, ‘H’, ‘Third Person’, ‘H or Third Person’, etc.).
Different combinations of specifications of the different kinds of speaker atti-
tudes and of the utterance constitute special resource situation types, which are re-
ferred to by distinct types of speech act verbs. Figures (12a)–(12c) below represent
the combinations of the specifications lexicalised by inform, forbid and criticise.
The categorial aspects used to specify the role of the utterance and that of the
speaker’s communicative attitude resemble those forming the basis of Baumgärtner’s
ordering system in many respects (see Section 2.2.2; cf. Baumgärtner 1977). They
are aspects of the meaning of speech act verbs which determine what kinds of
situations these predicates may be used to refer to. They also result from the same
type of analysis which Baumgärtner applied to directive and commissive predi-
cates. Yet, if the lexicalisation domain of communication concepts is to be cov-
ered completely, the set of categorial aspects proposed by Baumgärtner has to be
considerably expanded. To find out which categorial aspects are relevant to the
meaning of illocutionary verbs in general, a set of well- and ill-formed sentences
each containing a speech act verb of a specific class is construed. If all classes of
illocutionary verbs are to be covered, the set of sentences has to include examples
containing at least one example of each class. This procedure is illustrated by the
Figure 12a.  Specifications lexicalised by inform
68	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
set of sentences in (17a)–(17h) below. For the sake of brevity, this set of sentences
only includes examples of representative, directive and commissive speech act
verbs. Consequently, the categorial aspects resulting from the analysis applied to
these sentences are relevant to the meaning of representative, directive and com-
missive predicates only.
	(17)	 a.	 John claims that Mary has read much.
		 b.	 John claims that the Euro will soon become the official currency of Great
	 Britain.
		 c.	 John claims that Mary is younger than Bill.
Figure 12b.  Specifications lexicalised by forbid
Figure 12c.  Specifications lexicalised by criticise
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 69
		 d.	 Tony denied that the Euro would soon become the official currency of
	 Great Britain.
		 e.	 John requested Maryi to PROi leave early/ that shei leave early.
		 f.	 Johni promised Mary PROi to leave early/ that hei would leave early.
		 g.	 *Johni requested Mary to PROi leave early/ that hei leave early.
		 h.	 *John promised Maryi PROi to leave early/ that shei would leave early.
		 i.	 #John requested Mary that it may snow.
		 j.	 #John promised Mary that it would snow.
		 k. 	 John predicted that Mary would go abroad soon.
		 l.	 John predicted that Mary would be willing to go abroad soon.
		 m.	 John predicted that the Euro would soon become the official currency of
	 Great Britain.
		 n.	 *John predicted that Mary has already left.
Each of the sentences in (17a)–(17n) may be used to refer to situations involv-
ing the four elements of the general resource situation type: a speaker having a
particular communicative attitude, a hearer, and an utterance containing a propo-
sition expressed in the complement clause of each of these sentences. As the ill-
formedness of some of the sentences in (17a)–(17n) shows, it is not the case that
any verb may be combined with any type of complement clause. The restrictions
on the compatibility of verb and complement clause are not due to the syntactic
form of the latter. request and promise, for example, both subcategorise an in-
finitival complement clause and a finite complement clause introduced by the
complementiser that. Yet the combination of these verbs with finite and infini-
tival complement clauses is acceptable only if certain co-reference requirements
are fulfilled. The grammaticality of sentence (17e) and the ungrammaticality of
that in (17g) shows that in a sentence containing the verb request the subject of
the complement clause must be co-referent with the object of the main clause.
A sentence containing the verb promise is grammatical only if the subject of the
complement clause is coreferent with the subject of the main clause (cf. examples
(17f) and (17h)). The co-reference restrictions observed in examples (17e)–(17h)
may be explained in terms of control: request is an object-control predicate, while
a predicate like promise is a subject-control predicate. Whether a given predicate
allows the subject of the complement clause to be controlled by the subject or the
object of the main clause depends on the meaning of the verb in question. request
requires that the type of event expressed in the complement clause be an action
whose agent is the hearer (i.e. the referent of the object of the main clause), while
promise requires the event type of the propositional content P to be an action
whose agent is S (the referent of the subject of the main clause).
70	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
The other examples may be dealt with in a similar way. For example, the pre-
vious analysis of promise and request may be extended to include sentences like
(17i) and (17j). Since both verbs subcategorise a finite clause complement intro-
duced by that, it is not the form of the complement clause which makes these sen-
tences ill-formed in the intended reading. (The reading intended here is one where
the event type is an event for which no agent may be held responsible.) Rather,
the ill-formedness of these sentences is due to the type of event expressed. Verbs
like promise and request require that the event type expressed in the complement
clause be an action. However, the event type expressed in (17i) and (17j) is that of
an event for which no agent may be held responsible. Sentences (17i) and (17j) are
well-formed only under the assumption that S and H are able to carry out some
kind of action which causes some kind of surface to be covered with snow. Even
in such cases, some kind of action by S or H would still be implied. Furthermore,
the action expressed in the complement clause of verbs like promise and request
temporally follows the speech act of promising or requesting. This means that the
attribute ‘temporal reference’ of the categorial aspect ‘propositional content’ is as-
signed the value ‘future’ for each of these verbs.
promise and request share the same value for the attribute assigned to the cat-
egorial aspect of the speaker’s propositional attitude. In both cases, the speaker’s
propositional attitude is one of wanting: In the case of promise, the speaker’s prop-
ositional attitude is assigned the value ‘S wants: do P’; request lexicalises the value
‘S wants: P’. promise and request differ with respect to the type of speaker intention
lexicalised. In speech acts referred to by request, the speaker’s intention is that S
wants H to do P (‘S wants: H do P’). promise lexicalises S’s intention that H recog-
nise that S wants to do P (‘S wants: H recognise: S wants: do P’). Both verbs also
lexicalise the speaker’s presupposition that P would not have happened in the nor-
mal course of events (‘P not expectable’) as well as the speaker’s presuppositions
about the interests of S and H. In the case of promise, S supposes P to be in the in-
terest of H, while request is assigned the value ‘in the interest of S.’ Apart from these
speaker presuppositions about the interests of S and H, both verbs also lexicalise
the value ‘not specified’ assigned to the attribute ‘utterance position’: both request
and promise may be used to refer to initial, reactive or re-reactive speech acts.
So far, our analysis of request and promise has shown which categorial aspects
are relevant to the meaning of these two predicates and which attributes may
.	 As opposed to request, promise may take a complement clause expressing an action which
temporally precedes the act expressed in the main clause. An example is a sentence like I prom-
ise that I returned the book to the library. However, in such cases, the act referred to by promise
is not one of promising but rather one of assuring somebody that something was the case at
some point of time in the past.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 71
be assigned to each of these. The analysis has also illustrated where individual
predicates overlap and where they differ in meaning. The results of the analysis of
promise and request are summarised in Figures 13a and 13b below.
Figures 13a and 13b represent those aspects of the meaning of promise and
request which relate to the special resource situation type these verbs may be used
to refer to. These aspects are also relevant to all other verbs of the same lexical
field. For example, a verb like invite (sb. to do sth.) would be classified as belonging
to the same lexical field as request, because it is used to refer to the same special
resource situation type. This means that all values assigned to request may also be
assigned to invite. The differences in meaning between these two verbs are not re-
lated to the special resource situation type these two verbs may be used to refer to.
The values assigned to the attributes of the special resource situation type make
up the conceptual part of the meaning of these verbs (see Chapter 1), while the
difference in degree of strength by which request and invite (sb. to do sth.) may be
differentiated is a component of the lexical part of their meaning.
Having accounted for the conceptual component of the meaning of the verbs
request and promise, we may now extend our analysis and turn to sentences (17a)–
(17d). As opposed to verbs like request and promise, such like claim and deny al-
low for more than one option with respect to the attribute ‘event type.’ The event
Figure 13a.  Conceptual part of the meaning of promise
72	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
expressed in the complement clause of claim and deny may be an action (17a), an
event (17b & 17d) or a state of affairs (17c). Each of these may either temporally
precede, follow or coincide with the act of claiming or denying. In those cases
where the event expressed is of the action type, the agent of the action may be S,
H or some other person. Since claim and deny allow all options for the attributes
‘event type (P)’, ‘temporal reference (P)’ and ‘agent (P)’, each of these is assigned
the value ‘not specified’. Like request and promise, claim and deny are specified
with respect to the type of propositional content required. Since neither of these
verbs allows the propositional content type to be a question, these verbs all share
the value ‘information content’ for the attribute ‘propositional content type’.
Claim and deny also differ from request and promise regarding the speaker’s
propositional attitude and the speaker intention lexicalised. claim and deny share
the attribute ‘epistemic’ for the categorial aspects of the speaker’s propositional
attitude and the speaker’s intention, but the attribute ‘epistemic’ is assigned a dif-
ferent value for each of these verbs. In the case of claim, the attribute ‘epistemic’
is assigned the value ‘S takes to be true: P’, while the same attribute is assigned
the value ‘S takes to be true: not P’ in the case of deny. While the propositional
attitude lexicalised by deny may be represented as ‘S takes to be true: not P’, the
propositional attitude expressed by lie would have to be described as ‘S does not
take to be true: P’. These representations show that the difference in the proposi-
tional attitude lexicalised by each of these verbs is due to a difference in the scope
Figure 13b.  Conceptual part of the meaning of request
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 73
of negation. In the case of lie, the scope of negation is the attitude ‘take to be true’,
while the scope of negation is the propositional content (P) in the case of deny.
This difference in the scope of negation also reflects the different positions which
the speech acts referred to by these verbs occupy in a sequence of speech acts.
deny is used to refer to speech acts which are a reaction to a preceding act and is
therefore assigned the value ’reactive’ for the attribute ‘utterance position’. As op-
posed to deny, lie may be used to refer to initial, reactive and re-reactive speech
acts. This means that P is introduced together with the act of lying. Because of
this, negation may not have scope over P. Instead it has scope over the speaker’s
propositional attitude. In the case of deny, P has already been introduced by a
preceding speech act. Negation may therefore affect P directly.
The attribute ‘epistemic’ of the categorial aspect of the speaker’s intention is
assigned the value ‘S wants: H recognise: S takes to be true: P’ in the case of claim
and the value ‘S wants: H recognise: S takes to be true: not P’ in the case of deny.
claim and deny also differ with respect to the speaker’s presuppositions about the
interaction of S and H: deny lexicalises S’s presupposition that H takes P to be
true, while claim does not lexicalise any such presupposition. The conceptual
component of the meaning of claim and deny is represented in Figures 14a and
14b below.
Having described the conceptual part of the meaning of promise, request, claim
and deny, we may now extend the analysis of the categorial aspects of illocution-
Figure 14a.  Conceptual part of the meaning of claim
74	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
ary verbs to include the last examples of the set in (17). As examples (17k)–(17m)
show, the event type expressed in the complement clause of a verb like predict may
be an action, an event or a state of affairs. If the event type expressed in the comple-
Figure 14b.  Conceptual part of the meaning of deny
Figure 15.  Conceptual part of the meaning of predict
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 75
ment clause is an action, the agent of the action may be S, H, S & H or some other
person. The ill-formedness of (17n) shows that predict differs from claim and deny
in that it requires the action, event or state expressed in the complement clause to
follow the act of predicting in time. This means that the attribute ‘temporal refer-
ence’ is assigned the value ‘future’ while the attribute ‘event type’ allows all possible
options. The attributes ‘event type’ and ‘agent’ are therefore both assigned the value
‘not specified’. predict also differs from all other illocutionary verbs in the examples
(17a)–(17j) in that it lexicalises the propositional attitude ‘S takes P to be likely’
and the speaker intention that H recognise this. Additionally, predict lexicalises the
speaker’s presupposition that H does not know P as well as the value ‘not specified’
for the attribute of the utterance position. Figure 15 above shows the elements
which make up the conceptual component of the meaning of predict.
As opposed to all illocutionary verbs discussed so far, verbs of communication
are not specified regarding the values assigned to the attributes of the categorial as-
pects. Instead they lexicalise the manner in which something is communicated (as
is true of verbs like stutter and yell), the medium by which an utterance is brought
about (e.g. fax and mail), a particular kind of conversational structure (e.g. answer,
interrupt), the very fact of uttering something (e.g. say, tell, utter) or some other
aspect of meaning which does not relate to the categorial aspects mentioned above.
Figure 16 represents the conceptual component of the meaning of mumble.
Figure 16.  Conceptual part of the meaning of mumble
76	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
2.2.4.3	 An inventory of categorial aspects, attributes and values
The predicates mentioned above lexicalise only some of the values for the attri-
butes of the categorial aspects which are possible in principle. To complete the
picture, all possible values for the attributes of each of the categorial aspects are
listed below. The rightmost column of each of these lists contains examples of
predicates lexicalising the value in question.
Categorial
Aspect
Attributes Values Examples
Propositional Content Type (P) Information Content inform, praise
Content (P) Question Content ask
Not Specified whisper
Event Type (P) State of Affairs baptise
Action promise, request
Event ---
Action/State of Affairs boast, flatter
Action/Event ---
State of Affairs/Event ---
Not Specified claim, whisper
Agent (P) (relevant only S promise, boast
where P is an action) H request, flatter
S and H propose
3rd Person slander
S/3rd Person ---
H/3rd Person agree, criticise
S/H ---
Not Specified claim, whisper
Temporal Reference (P) Past boast
Present ---
Future promise, request
Past/Present praise
Past/Future ---
Present/Future ---
Not Specified claim, whisper
Propositional Epistemic take to be true (S,P) claim
Attitude (S) take to be true (S, ¬ P) deny
Att(S,P) ¬ take to be true (S,P) lie
¬ take to be true (S, ¬ P) ---
know (S,P) inform
¬ know (S,P) ask
Attitude of Wanting want (S,P) request
want (S, ¬ P) prohibit
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 77
(continued)
¬ want (S,P) warn
¬ want (S, ¬ P) ---
Attitude of Grading consider x (S,P) judge
¬ consider x (S,P) ---
Evaluative Attitude consider good (S,P) praise
consider bad (S,P) criticise
Emotive Attitude feel joy (S,P) congratulate
feel anger (S,P) scold
feel sorrow (S,P) lament
Speaker Reference to action (H) want (S(do(H,P))) request
Intention I(S) want (S(¬ do(H,P))) prohibit/forbid
want (S(do(H,R))) ask
Epistemic Attitude (H) want (S(recognise (H
(Att(S,P)))))
confirm/promise
want(S(¬ recognise (H(Att
(S, P)))))
---
want (S(know (H,P))) inform
want (S(¬ know (H,P))) ---
Declarative Attitude want (S,Q) baptise
The attributes assigned to the categorial aspect of the speaker’s presuppositions
fall into one of two groups. Some of them relate to the speaker’s presuppositions
about the ‘world of interaction’, particularly about H and P. Others concern the
speaker’s presuppositions about other elements of the resource situation such as
the social domain or the institutional setting in which the interaction of S and H
takes place. Possible values for the attribute ‘social domain’ are ‘private’, ‘official’,
‘public’ and ‘institutional’. The attribute ‘institutional setting’ may be assigned a
whole range of values relating to the different kinds of institutions existing within
a given speech community. Speaker presuppositions of this kind cannot be de-
scribed as systematically as the other categorial aspects, because they depend to a
high degree on the social and institutional organisation of a particular linguistic
community. The attribute ‘utterance position’ also relates to this group of speaker
presuppositions. The two types of speaker presuppositions and the attributes as-
signed to each of these are listed below. Here again, the rightmost column of each
table lists predicates lexicalising the relevant value for a particular attribute.
78	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Categorial
Aspect
Attributes Values Examples
Presuppositions Expectability (P) expectable (P) warn
of S about the
‘world of inter-
expectable (¬ P) insist (that sb. do
something)
action’ ¬ expectable (P) request
¬ expectable (¬ P) forbid, prohibit
Interests of S & H inter of S (P) request
inter of S (¬ P) ---
¬ inter of S (P) ---
¬ inter of S (¬ P) ---
inter of H (P) promise
inter of H (¬ P) dissuade
¬ inter of H (P) warn, threaten
¬ inter of H (¬ P) ---
Epistemic Attitude (H) take to be true (H,P) deny
take to be true (H, ¬ P) concede, admit
¬ take to be true (H,P) insist (that sth. is the
case), maintain
¬ take to be true (H, ¬ P) ---
know (H,P) ---
¬ know (H,P) inform
Presuppositions Utterance Position initial ask
of S about the reactive deny
situation re-reactive insist
sequential argue
Social Domain informal inform
private entrust, confide
institutional command
Institutional Setting Church baptise
Law condemn
Army command
• •
• •
The inventory of categorial aspects, attributes and values is used in the Handbuch
deutscher Kommunikationsverben (Harras et al. 2004 & 2007) to account for the
conceptual part of the meaning of German speech act verbs. Since most German
speech act verbs have equivalents in most other Indo-European languages, the
categories used to describe the conceptual component of the meaning of German
speech act verbs may also be considered to be relevant to the equivalents of these
German verbs in other Indo-European languages.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 79
Although the ordering system presented in this section captures the concep-
tual part of the meaning of most illocutionary verbs in many Indo-European lan-
guages, it is important to keep in mind that the ordering system as such is not
completely independent of any individual language. As the inventory listed above
shows, the attribute values are listed systematically and irrespective of whether
they are lexicalised in a particular language or not. As opposed to the attribute
values, the categorial aspects are the result of an analysis of the illocutionary verbs
of a particular language. The attributes assigned to the categorial aspects occupy a
position in between: Some of them result from an analysis of the meaning of illo-
cutionary verbs, others may be listed systematically. For example, the attributes of
the categorial aspect of the speaker’s intention are the result of a semantic analysis
of speech act verbs, while those specifying temporal reference include only a very
limited number of possibilities ([+Past] and [–Past]) which may be listed system-
atically. This means that the conceptual ordering system presented in this section
is only partially language-independent.
2.2.4.4	 Speech acts versus speech act verbs
As Harras has pointed out, the categorial aspects used to specify the roles of the
speaker and that of the utterance bear some resemblance to the components of
illocutionary forces mentioned by Searle and Vanderveken (1985: 12–20) and
Vanderveken (1990: 103–136) (cf. Harras 2001: 26–31). Vanderveken lists the fol-
lowing components, some of which were already introduced by Searle as condi-
tions for the successful performance of a particular illocutionary act by means of
an explicit performative utterance (cf. Searle 1969: 57–61):
(1)	 Illocutionary point
(2)	 Mode of Achievement of an Illocutionary Point
(3)	 Propositional Content
(4)	 Preparatory Conditions
(5)	 Sincerity Conditions
(6)	 Degree of Strength
Concerning (1), Searle and Vanderveken (1985) and Vanderveken (1990) distin-
guish between five types of illocutionary point (quoted here from Vanderveken
1990: 105):
(i)	 the assertive point which consists in representing as actual a state of affairs
(ii)	 the commissive point which consists in committing the speaker to a future
course of action
(iii)	the directive point which consists in making an attempt to get the hearer to
do something
80	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
(iv)	the declarative point which consists in performing an action which brings into
existence a state of affairs by representing oneself as performing that action
(v)	 the expressive point which consists in expressing propositional attitudes of
the speaker about a state of affairs
At first sight, none of these five types of illocutionary point seems to have much
in common with any of the categorial aspects resulting from an analysis of the
meaning of illocutionary verbs. Yet Vanderveken’s definitions of each of the il-
locutionary points make reference to notions such as representing as actual, com-
mitting oneself, get somebody to do something, perform an action with a certain
result and expressing some kind of propositional attitude. These are all intentional
predicates which are predicated of a speaker. Consequently, the illocutionary
point of a particular speech act may be said to correspond to the categorial aspect
of the speaker’s intention which is part of the meaning of illocutionary verbs (cf.
Harras 2001: 29).
The mode of achievement of an illocutionary point serves to differentiate
speech acts with the same illocutionary point. For example, acts of requesting
differ from acts of commanding, because the latter – but not the former – involve
some kind of authority position of the speaker over the hearer. Likewise, acts of
confiding differ from such of informing in that they require the additional condi-
tion of a specific social domain (‘confidential’). Such features, which distinguish
REQUEST from COMMAND and CONFIDE from INFORM, are part of the
mode of achievement of the illocutionary point of these speech acts. This compo-
nent of the illocutionary force of a particular speech act corresponds to some of
the speaker’s presuppositions about the situation in which the interaction of S and
H takes place. These are subsumed under the categorial aspect of the speaker’s
presuppositions which are part of the meaning of illocutionary verbs.
The propositional content condition may be directly related to the categorial
aspect of the propositional content.
The preparatory conditions of a particular speech act are defined in illocu-
tionary logic as the conditions which are necessary for the successful and non-de-
fective performance of that speech act. They are determined by the illocutionary
force of a particular speech act: each illocutionary force has a component which
determines which propositions the speaker must presuppose when he performs
an illocutionary act with that force (cf. Vanderveken 1990: 114). For example, a
speaker praising a hearer for something that he has done presupposes that it is
good to do such a thing. As this example shows, the preparatory conditions of
illocutionary acts correspond to the presuppositions of a speaker about the world
of interaction. These are subsumed under the categorial aspect of the speaker’s
presuppositions which is a component of the meaning of illocutionary verbs.
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 81
Vanderveken defines the sincerity conditions of a particular speech act in
terms of propositional attitudes:
By performing an illocutionary act, the speaker also expresses (or manifests) men-
tal states of certain psychological modes about the state of affairs represented
by the propositional content. For example, a speaker who promises something
expresses an intention to do what he promises, and a speaker who requests a
hearer to do something expresses a desire that he do it. Such mental states are
propositional attitudes of the form m(P), where m is a psychological mode such
as, for example, desire, regret, or hope, and P is a proposition. … The perfor-
mance of an illocutionary act is sincere when the speaker has the mental states
that he expresses in the performance of that act, and it is insincere otherwise.
 (Vanderveken 1990: 117)
If the sincerity conditions of a given speech act are defined in this way, they may
be directly related to the categorial aspect of the speaker’s propositional attitude
which is lexicalised by speech act verbs.
A speaker’s mental state about the state of affairs represented by the propo-
sitional content of a particular speech act may be expressed with different de-
grees of strength (cf. Vanderveken 1990: 177). For example, an act of beseech-
ing somebody to do something involves a higher degree of strength than one of
asking somebody to do something. Degree of strength is a feature which may be
observed only by comparing different illocutionary verbs belonging to the same
lexical field. It does not correspond to any of the categorial aspects which are part
of the meaning of illocutionary verbs. Degree of strength is a feature which is
part of the lexical component of the meaning of some speech act verbs. As such,
it cannot be captured by any of the categorial aspects mentioned above, which
represent the conceptual component of verb meaning.
The comparison of the components of the illocutionary forces of speech acts
with the categorial aspects of the meaning of speech act verbs has shown that all
but one of the components of illocutionary forces correspond to the categorial
aspects of the meaning of speech act verbs. Degree of strength is the only compo-
nent which cannot be mapped onto any of the categorial aspects of verb meaning.
The correspondences between illocutionary acts and illocutionary verbs are sum-
marised in Figure 17 below.
In spite of the correspondences between the components of illocutionary
forces of speech acts and the categorial aspects of the meaning of speech act verbs,
the correspondence between illocutionary acts and illocutionary verbs is not per-
fect. As we have seen in Section 2.2.1, not all aspects which are relevant to the
nature of illocutionary acts are also part of the meaning of speech act verbs.
82	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
2.2.4.5	 Lexical gaps
As we have seen before, the categorial aspects which are part of the ordering sys-
tem presented in this chapter are the result of an analysis of sentences contain-
ing illocutionary verbs. By combining these verbs with complement clauses ex-
pressing different event types, different types of propositional attitude, different
speaker presuppositions, etc. we have been able to identify the elements which
make up the conceptual part of the meaning of illocutionary verbs. Following
Baumgärtner, these aspects of the meaning of illocutionary verbs have been called
“categorial aspects”. They are aspects of the meaning of these verbs which deter-
mine what kinds of situations these verbs may be used to refer to. In the preceding
section, the type of analysis used to identify the relevant categorial aspects has
been applied to all classes of speech act verbs as well as verbs of communication.
This has led to the establishment of a complete inventory of categories which are
relevant to all illocutionary verbs and verbs of communication. Since all relevant
categories are included, this inventory provides a reliable basis for the study of
lexical gaps.
The examples mentioned above show that the conceptual part of the mean-
ing of illocutionary verbs like promise, request, claim, deny, etc. may adequately
Figure 17.  Correspondences between speech acts and speech act verbs
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 83
be described by combinations of values for parameters specifying the speaker’s
attitude and the propositional content of an utterance. For example, a combina-
tion like the one in (i) is lexicalised by all directives, while one like (ii) captures
all commissives.
	 (i)	 




Att(S,P):		 want (S, P)						 




		 I(S):			 want (S (do (H,P)))
		 Pres(S):		 in the interest of S (P)
						 not expectable (P)
						 able to do P (H)
	 (ii)	 




Att(S):		 want (S (do,P))					 




		 I(S):			 want (S (recognise (H, Att (S,P))))
		 Pres(S):		 in the interest of H (P)
						 not expectable (P)
						 able to do P (S)
However, not all possible combinations of parameter values are lexicalised by il-
locutionary verbs or verbs of communication. Some of those which are not do
not represent concepts of communication but merely result from combining pa-
rameter values in a particular way. I shall refer to such combinations of values as
“matrix products”. Matrix products are combinations of parameter values which
do not make sense from a communicative point of view and may therefore not
be considered to represent concepts of communication. A case in point is the
combination of the values ‘S knows: P’ for the categorial aspect of the speaker’s
propositional attitude, ‘S wants: H know: P’ for the aspect of the speaker’s inten-
tion and ‘H knows: P’ for the aspect of the speaker’s presuppositions:
	(iii)	 


Att (S,P):	 know (S, P)			 


		 I (S):			 want (S (know (H,P)))
		 Pres (S):		 H knows: P
The combination in (iii) represents a speech act whereby a speaker informs a
hearer of something he assumes to be known by H. Such combinations of values
do not make sense from a communicative point of view. They cannot be taken to
represent concepts of communication and are mere matrix products.
Other combinations of parameter values which are not lexicalised do make
sense from a communicative point of view. These combinations may be said to
represent concepts of communication. Concepts of communication which are
not lexicalised correspond to lexical gaps. An example is the lack of specialised
English, German and Dutch predicates lexicalising the values ‘Event’ or ‘Event or
State’ for the attribute of the event type of P. Declaratives like baptise lexicalise the
84	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
value ‘State’; the value ‘Action’ is lexicalised by all directive and commissive predi-
cates. Predicates like claim, deny and predict are assigned the value ‘not specified’
(i.e. ‘State/Event/Action’) for the attribute ‘Event Type’. This means that languag-
es like English, German and Dutch only distinguish between the value ‘Action’,
‘State’ and ‘Not specified’ as far as the lexicalisation of communication concepts is
concerned; there are no specialised predicates in these languages which lexicalise
the value ‘Event’ or ‘State or Event’.
Other examples of lexical gaps may be found in the classes of representa-
tive and commissive predicates. While reactive representatives and commissives
are specified regarding the distinction between ‘P’ and ‘¬P’, representatives and
commissives which either are not specified with respect to the position of the
utterance referred to (claim, promise) or are used to refer to a re-reactive stage
(maintain, insist) fail to lexicalise this distinction. Consequently, the classes of
these representative and commissive predicates contain a considerable number
of gaps (cf. Figures 18a and 18b). Since reactive as well as re-reactive directives
are not specified regarding the distinction between ‘P’ and ‘¬P’, gaps are even
more frequent in the classes of these verbs (cf. Figure 18c). As I have pointed out
in Chapter 1, expressives are not specified with respect to the position of the ut-
terance they are used to refer to. (In Figures 18a–18c below, lexicalisations of the
distinction between ‘P’ and ‘¬P’ are listed for English, German and Dutch.)
The relevant lexical gaps within the classes of representative, directive and
commissive speech act verbs may be described in terms of combinations of values
which are not lexicalised in English, German or Dutch. For example, the lack of
re-reactive representatives lexicalising the distinction between ‘P’ and ‘¬P’ (third
column of Table 18a) may be described by combinations of parameter values like
those in (iv) and (v) below.
Figure 18a.  Lexicalisation of ‘P’ and ‘¬P’: Representatives
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 85
	(iv)	 




	Att(S,P):		 take to be true (S,P)			 




			 I(S):			 want (S (recognise (H (take 	
							 to be true (S,P)))))			
			 Pres(S):			 not take to be true (H,P)		
			 Position (Utt):	 re-reactive					
								 ⇓
								 Ø
	 (v)	 




	Att(S,P):		 take to be true (S, ¬P)		 




			 I(S):			 want (S (recognise (H (take 	
							 to be true (S, ¬P)))))			
			 Pres(S):			 not take to be true (H, ¬P)	
			 Position (Utt):	 re-reactive					
								 ⇓
								 Ø
Possible explanations for the lack of specialised predicates lexicalising the distinc-
tion between ‘P’ and ‘¬P’ will be discussed in the next chapter (Chapter 3).
Figure 18b.  Lexicalisation of ‘P’ and ‘¬P’: Commissives
Figure 18c.  Lexicalisation of ‘P’ and ‘¬P’: Directives
86	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
2.3	 Conclusion
This chapter has shown that lexical gaps may adequately be described against the
background of a conceptual system. Several ordering systems for concepts of com-
munication were introduced and discussed. Traditional speech act taxonomies
were first suggested as possible ordering systems for concepts of communication.
Searle’s classification was rejected mainly because some of its classification cri-
teria are not relevant to the meaning of illocutionary verbs. A lexicon-based ap-
proach like Austin’s has obvious advantages for the purposes of this study, because
its classification criteria are necessarily relevant to the meaning of illocutionary
verbs. Yet Austin’s lexicalist approach excludes the possibility of capturing lexical
gaps (see Section 2.2.1). For this reason, it was ultimately rejected as well. If lexical
gaps are to be included systematically, we need a conceptual system which allows
us to represent the meaning of lexicalised as well as non-lexicalised concepts of
communication.
Baumgärtner’s ordering system proved to meet the essential requirements for
a systematic study of lexical gaps. Though its parameters are based on the mean-
ing of illocutionary verbs, it also covers communication concepts which are not
lexicalised. Within Baumgärtner’s ordering system, concepts of communication
are represented as combinations of parameter values which may but need not
be lexicalised. Combinations of values which are not lexicalised represent lexi-
cal gaps if the combination in question is not ruled out by logical principles. The
parameters on which Baumgärtner’s ordering system is based cover all relevant
aspects of the meaning of directive and commissive predicates, but they are partly
irrelevant to the meaning of other types of illocutionary verbs. Other types of il-
locutionary verbs call for the inclusion of different parameters.
Though Edmondson’s ordering system was designed to cover representatives,
directives, commissives and expressives, we noticed that it properly captures only
directives and commissives. This is due to the fact that this ordering system was
developed to explain lexicalisation tendencies in terms of costs and benefits for
speaker and hearer. As we have seen, the notion of costs and benefits cannot eas-
ily be applied to representatives and expressives and would have to be modified
considerably if it were to be applied to these two classes of speech act verbs. In
addition, Edmondson’s ordering system ignores many aspects which are highly
relevant to the meaning of the illocutionary verbs included in his study.
Harras’ ordering system is based on parameters which result from a seman-
tic analysis of sentences containing illocutionary verbs of all classes. This proce-
dure ensures that the parameters on which this system is based are relevant to
the meaning of illocutionary verbs. Since this kind of analysis may be applied to
a large number of speech act verbs of all types as well as to verbs of communica-
	 Chapter 2.  Ordering systems for concepts of communication	 87
tion, the inventory of categories proposed by Harras fully encompasses the entire
lexical domain. This makes Harras’ ordering system an adequate instrument for a
systematic study of lexical gaps. In Chapter 3, this ordering system will therefore
be used as the basis for a study of lexical gaps.
chapter 3
Lexical gaps
3.1	 Introduction
In the previous chapter, I have selected Harras’ ordering system for communica-
tion concepts as the most suitable system for detecting gaps in the inventory of
speech act verbs and verbs of communication. In this chapter, I shall use this
system to set up a list of communication concepts which are not lexicalised in
English, German or Dutch and offer possible explanations for why these concepts
fail to get lexicalised. Before turning to the issue of non-lexicalised communica-
tion concepts, Section 3.2 will first be concerned with the relevance of studying
lexical gaps. Section 3.3 presents an overview of earlier accounts of lexical gaps.
Missing lexicalisations were first defined from a structuralist point of view, i.e. as
empty slots in a lexical field whose structure was usually represented as a matrix
or chart. I shall discuss several such structuralist approaches, arguing in particu-
lar that matrix gaps may not automatically be assigned the status of lexical gaps.
Rather, matrix gaps must fulfil certain requirements if they are to be assigned the
status of lexical gaps. In Section 3.4, these requirements will be used as the basis
of my own definition of lexical gaps. Section 3.5 will be concerned with different
ways of finding lexical gaps. Different procedures will be proposed to trace differ-
ent types of gaps. Gaps occurring at the conceptual level of meaning will be traced
by the method of combining possible values for the attributes of the categorial
aspects as illustrated in Chapter 2. Gaps occurring on the lexical level of mean-
ing require a different searching strategy. Section 3.6, which is the central part of
this chapter, deals with gaps in the main classes of speech act verbs and verbs of
communication. I shall list different types of gaps in each of these verb fields and
offer some preliminary explanations for their occurrence. In the final section of
this chapter, the various explanations suggested in Section 3.6 will be reduced to
a much smaller number of lexicalisation principles.
90	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
3.2	 Why study lexical gaps?
A study of lexical gaps is essential to a cross-linguistic comparison of lexicalisa-
tion patterns for at least three reasons. Firstly, missing lexicalisations may make us
aware of patterns in the distribution of existing lexicalisations which would have
escaped our attention if lexical gaps had not been taken into account. Missing
lexicalisations are likely to be overlooked especially when a concept fails to get
lexicalised in any of the languages under investigation. Even if a large number of
typologically distinct languages is taken into account, there may still be concepts
which are not lexicalised in any of these and are therefore likely to go unnoticed.
Secondly, the availability or non-availability of a word or other lexical item to
express a certain concept is important, because words and other lexical items have
a status different from that of free combinations of words. Though all concepts
may be expressed in principle, only some of them may be expressed by lexical
items. Concepts which may not be expressed by lexical items must be expressed
by paraphrases. These are free combinations of words, i.e. phrases, clauses or sen-
tences. Lexical items differ from paraphrases in that they are prefabricated items
ready for use: They may be selected from the mental lexicon as wholes and do not
have to be composed from smaller units each time they are produced. While this
may be obvious with respect to words, it is also true of lexical expressions consist-
ing of more than one word. Multiword lexicalisations are not built up from their
components each time they are produced nor are they broken down into their
constituents each time a hearer (or reader) is presented with them. As early as
1975, Bolinger argued that our language contains many more prefabricated items
(or “prefabs” as he calls them) than is commonly assumed:
... our language does not expect us to build everything starting with lumber, nails
and blueprint, but provides us with an incredibly large number of prefabs, which
have the magical property of persisting even when we knock some of them apart
and put them together in unpredictable ways. (Bolinger 1975: 1)
Bolinger explains the abundance of prefabs in language as an effect of memory.
Some words are learned in combination with certain other words, and speakers
never hear them being used otherwise. As a result, speakers have a memory of
certain combinations which prevents them from replacing the usual parts of the
combination by others. The effect of memory accounts, for example, for the fact
that native speakers of English do not produce phrases like *an extended time ago
or *sometime else although they do generate phrases like a lifetime ago and some-
where else. Native speakers of English do not produce the former two phrases,
because they simply have no memory of them (cf. Bolinger 1975: 4). Arguing that
word combinations like a lifetime ago and somewhere else are idiom-like connec-
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 91
tions, Bolinger calls the phenomenon of the habitual co-occurrence of words “idi-
omaticity”. According to Bolinger, idiomaticity is a pervasive phenomenon whose
effects are not limited to idioms and other habitual co-occurrences of words but
also extend up to the level of syntax (cf. ibid.: 3). The phenomenon of idiomaticity
accounts for why the status of lexical items is different from that of free combina-
tions of words. Even if idiomaticity extends up to the level of syntax, free combi-
nations of words are not stored in memory as units in the way lexical items are.
As opposed to lexical items, they cannot be recalled from memory as ready-made
units. Because of this, the use of paraphrases to express certain concepts is less
economical than the use of lexical items. This means that it does indeed matter a
great deal whether we have words (or other lexical items) to express certain con-
cepts: Concepts which are lexicalised can be expressed more economically than
such which are not.
A third reason why lexical gaps are worth studying is that thought and lan-
guage are often claimed to be related. Language being a manifestation of culture,
the latter has often been claimed to affect, through language, the way we speak.
The assumption that culture influences thought through language is commonly
referred to as “linguistic relativity” or “linguistic determinism”. The original idea,
which goes back to Humboldt, may be summarised as follows (cf. Humboldt 1835;
here represented in Slobin’s formulation, cf. Slobin 1996: 70): “Languages differ
from one another; thought and language are related; each speech community em-
bodies a distinct world view.” The notion of linguistic relativism was taken up in
the first half of the 20th century by Boas, Sapir and Whorf and is best-known in
the version formulated by Whorf:
From this fact proceeds what I have called the “linguistic relativity principle”,
which means, in informal terms, that users of markedly different grammars are
pointed by their grammars toward different types of observations and different
evaluations of externally similar acts of observation, and hence are not equivalent
as observers, but must arrive at somewhat different views of the world.
 (Whorf 1940: 221)
From the 1960s onward, the ideas connected with the notion of linguistic relativ-
ity were regarded with a considerable amount of scepticism (cf. Kandler’s criti-
cism of Trier’s and Weisgerber’s theory of language in Kandler 1973). According
to Gumperz and Levinson, this was due to the rise of the cognitive sciences which
emphasised the common properties of human cognition as well as its basis in hu-
man genetic endowment (cf. Gumperz & Levinson 1996: 2). Gumperz and Levin-
son point out that scepticism towards the concept of linguistic relativism per-
sisted into the second half of the 20th century and did not abate until the 1990s,
when attention was redirected towards linguistic and cultural diversity. However,
92	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
they emphasise that recent accounts of linguistic relativism no longer adhere to
the version proposed by Whorf but rather view diversity within the context of our
knowledge of universals and thereby occupy a position in between Whorf’s and
that of the cognitive sciences (cf. Gumperz & Levinson 1996: 3).
One such more recent and more moderate version of the notion of linguistic
relativity is the “thinking for speaking” framework proposed by Slobin. Rather
than relating thought or world view to language, Slobin relates the dynamic enti-
ties of thinking and speaking. By “thinking for speaking”, Slobin means the kind
of thinking which is carried out online in the process of speaking. The think-
ing for speaking framework presupposes that events cannot be fully represented
in language and that linguistic expression therefore requires some sort of sche-
matisation. According to Slobin, every utterance represents a selection of event
characteristics, leaving it to the receiver to fill in details on the basis of ongoing
context and background knowledge. A speaker or listener has to attend to those
semantic features which are encoded in the grammatical and lexical elements of a
particular language in order to learn and use that language: “’Thinking for speak-
ing’ involves picking those characteristics of objects and events which (a) fit some
conceptualization of the event and (b) are readily codable in language” (cf. Slobin
1996: 76).
The notion of codability plays a crucial role in thinking for speaking research.
As I shall argue below, it is also essential to a study of lexical gaps. Slobin de-
fines “codability” as the ease of expression of the relevant categories. According to
Slobin, “a more codable expression is more accessible in psycholinguistic terms –
that is, it is short and/or of high frequency, and generally part of a small set of
options in a paradigm or small set of items” (cf. Slobin 2003: 161). In this passage,
Slobin first presents codability as a property of event characteristics or categories
and then as a property of expressions. It is therefore not clear what is actually
supposed to be codable. However, Slobin’s use of “codable” in the next passage
suggests that it is actually concepts rather than expressions which may be more
or less codable, the type of expression by which a concept is encoded being an
indication of the codability of that concept: “A concept expressed by a single word
is more codable than one expressed by a phrase or clause (e.g. run versus while
running)” (cf. ibid.: 161). The notion of codability as defined by Slobin is relevant
to a study of lexical gaps. If it is true that concepts expressed by words are more
codable than those expressed by phrases or sentences, the presence or absence of
a word or other lexical item for a particular concept is an indication of the status
of that concept. Particularly, the availability of a lexical item for a certain concept
tells us that that concept is rather highly codable.
Slobin presents evidence from psycholinguistic experiments, spontaneous
conversation, written and oral narrative, language acquisition, innovative uses
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 93
of language and reports of mental imagery which shows that speakers are more
sensitive to dimensions which are highly codable in their language than to such
which are less codable (cf. Slobin 2003: 164–176). Slobin’s example is the category
of manner of motion. Manner of motion is highly codable in English, as indicated
by the fact that it is a feature carried by the main verb. Since manner of motion
is expressed in English as a feature carried by the main verb, it may be more
economically expressed in English than in languages such as French or Spanish
where manner of motion has to be expressed as an adjunct. French bondir, for
example, does not distinguish between the manners of motion encoded in Eng-
lish by jump, leap, bound, spring, skip and gambol. Likewise, Spanish escabullirse
can be translated as creep, glide, slide, skip and slither (cf. Slobin 2003: 163). Slobin
mentions a study by Jovanović & Kentfield, who found only 79 French counter-
parts (many of which were of low frequency) for 115 English manner-of-motion
verbs (cf. Jovanović & Kentfield 1998; quoted in Slobin 2003: 163). Manner has
also been shown to be a feature typically lexicalised by German verbs of motion.
Examples include gehen, laufen, rennen, hinken, schleichen, hüpfen, bummeln and
staksen (cf. Olsen 1996: 314). While French and Spanish counterparts of these
German verbs are hard to find, French and Spanish verbs of motion frequently
lexicalise a path of motion which often fails to get lexicalised by verbs of motion
in German. For example, the path of motion expressed by French entrer, sortir,
monter and descendre and by Spanish entrar, salir, subir and bajar is expressed in
German by prefixed forms of gehen (hineingehen, hinausgehen, hinaufgehen and
hinuntergehen) rather than by separate lexical items (cf. Olsen 1996: 314; cf. also
Talmy 1985 for a comparison of English and Spanish motion verbs). This means
that the category of manner of motion is less codable in French and Spanish than
in English and German, while the category of path is less codable in these lan-
guages than in French and Spanish. Slobin claims that speakers of English make
widespread use of the category of manner of motion, while speakers of French do
not mention it unless it is at issue. As a result, speakers of French are less sensi-
tive to this dimension than speakers of English. According to Slobin, habitual
online attention to categories which are linguistically encoded, especially to such
which are highly codable, has the effect of making these categories “salient and
conceptually articulated” in speakers’ minds. Since manner of motion is a highly
codable category for speakers of English, it is an inherent component of motion
for these speakers, and the semantic domain of manner of motion is highly dif-
ferentiated in English (cf. Slobin 2003: 161–164). For speakers of English, manner
of motion is a salient conceptual field. In Slobin’s framework, a salient conceptual
field is a field of concepts on which speakers focus their attention while thinking
for speaking.
94	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
The claim that highly codable catgories (such as manner of motion in Eng-
lish) are cognitively salient provides additional justification for a study of lexical
gaps. If it is true that highly codable categories are cognitively salient, and if it is
also true that categories expressed by lexical items are more codable than such
which can only be expressed by phrases or sentences, the availability or non-avail-
ability of lexical items for certain categories may serve as an indication of the
degree of salience of a particular category. The idea that some concepts are more
codable and therefore possibly also more salient than others may also be applied
to a study of the lexicalisation of concepts of communication. As I have shown in
Chapter 2, some communication concepts are more codable in some languages
than in others. This is true, for example, of the concept expressed by German
unken, Russian karkat and Turkish kötümsemek, which are all used to refer to
situations in which a speaker predicts an event which he considers to have nega-
tive consequences. As I have pointed out before, the corresponding concept is not
lexicalised in English, Dutch or French. If Slobin’s assumptions are correct, this
means that the corresponding concept is highly codable in Russian, German and
Turkish but less codable in English, Dutch and French. If highly codable concepts
are indeed cognitively salient, the concept of an act of predicting an event with
negative consequences is cognitively salient for speakers of Turkish, Russian or
German but not for those of English, Dutch or French.
Recapitulating what has been said so far, lexical gaps deserve our attention,
because (a) when being systematically studied, they may help us to notice pat-
terns in the distribution of existing lexicalisations, (b) where concepts may not be
expressed by lexical items, they have to be expressed by less economical means
(i.e. by phrases, clauses or sentences), and (c) the availability or non-availability of
a word or other lexical item to express a certain concept may serve as an indica-
tion of the status of that concept (esp. of its degree of codability and/or salience).
Apart from these three reasons, which illustrate the relevance of studying
lexical gaps in any part of the vocabulary, there are two more reasons why gaps
in the vocabulary of communicative expressions deserve special attention. Firstly,
the use of communicative expressions constitutes social reality. A speaker utter-
ing a sentence such as I will help you tomorrow to a hearer may be said to have
“promised” to help that hearer. If the speaker does not do what he has told the
hearer he would do, the hearer may try to pin him down on a particular course of
action by uttering a sentence containing the verb promise (e.g. But you promised
to help me!). If there were no such verbs as promise to refer to specific kinds of
utterances, promising (and other speech acts) would not exist as a social institu-
tion (though sentences like I will help you tomorrow would of course still be ut-
tered). Where special verbs for certain utterances are missing, these utterances
have not acquired the status of speech acts and hence they have not developed
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 95
into social institutions. A systematic study of gaps in the vocabulary of communi-
cative expressions may therefore show which types of utterances have and which
have not come to be speech acts and have therefore evolved as social institutions.
Secondly, gaps in the vocabulary of communicative expressions deserve special
attention, because communicative expressions are indicators of metapragmatic
awareness (cf. Verschueren 1999: 187–198; Verschueren 2000). Underlying the
notion of metapragmatic awareness is the idea that not everything which hap-
pens in linguistic behaviour occupies the same place in consciousness. According
to Verschueren, any kind of verbal activity is always the product of automatic
processing on the one hand and of conscious effort on the other. Making the main
verb in a sentence agree with the subject of that sentence and following the basic
SVO word order, for example, are matters of automatic processing for anybody
having a reasonable degree of proficiency in English. By contrast, word choice
and the development of argumentational structure are products of conscious ef-
fort. Using Verschueren’s terminology, we may call the latter “highly salient ac-
tivities” (cf. Verschueren 2000: 444). Thus, all linguistic choice-making implies
some degree of consciousness (or salience or awareness). Though metapragmatic
awareness is not measurable, Verschueren points out that it leaves identifiable
linguistic traces such as the use of speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
These are lexicalised metapragmatic descriptions of verbal activity and reflect the
way in which linguistic behaviour is conceptualised by those who participate in
it (cf. ibid.: 446). If word choice is a highly salient activity (as suggested by Ver-
schueren), consciousness of what is not lexicalised at all may be expected to be
low. The absence of a verb like promise in the Philippine language Ilongot, for ex-
ample, has been taken to indicate that the activity of committing oneself verbally
to a future course of action is not a salient form of behaviour in Ilongot-speaking
communities. Such a conclusion has been claimed to be justified by the results of
anthropological research (cf. Rosaldo 1982; Verschueren 1999: 196).
Having shown that lexical gaps are worth being systematically studied, I
shall now present a chronological overview of previous accounts of lexical gaps.
The overview focuses on different definitions of the phenomenon of lexical gaps.
Having compared different definitions, I shall suggest an alternative definition
of my own.
96	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
3.3	 Previous accounts of lexical gaps
3.3.1	 Chomsky (1965)
Comparing phonological and syntactic redundancy rules, Chomsky wonders
whether the distinction between accidental and systematic gaps, which exists
on the phonological level, also exists on the syntactic level. The distinction be-
tween accidental and systematic gaps was originally used to distinguish between
sequences which are and such which are not phonologically admissible. The non-
occurrence of a phonologically admissible sequence (such as /blik/ in English)
was referred to as an “accidental gap”, while the absence of a phonologically non-
admissible sequence (such as /bnik/ in English) was called a “systematic gap” (cf.
Chomsky 1965: 169). Chomsky argues that phonological and syntactic redun-
dancy rules provide general constraints on lexical entries, thereby distinguishing
possible from impossible lexical entries. However, not all possible lexical entries
will be actually realised in the lexicon of a particular language. This means that
there is in fact a threefold distinction between occurring lexical entries, non-oc-
curring but possible lexical entries and impossible lexical entries. What must be
shown according to Chomsky is that possible but non-occurring lexical entries
have the status of accidental semantic gaps “… in the sense that they correspond
to lexical items that the language does not provide for specifically but could in
principle incorporate with no alteration of the general semantic system within
which it functions” (cf. ibid.: 170).
One of Chomsky’s examples of accidental semantic gaps is the absence of
a special verb meaning ‘to raise an animal’. As Chomsky points out, raise is not
restricted to co-occurring with nominal expressions designating animals but may
also take as a complement an NP designating a plant. The more special verb grow
may be used instead of raise if the complement position within the VP is occupied
by a nominal expression designating a plant but not if the NP in the complement
position designates an animal or a human being (cf. He grows corn vs. ?He grows
a dog and ?They have grown two children). Likewise, the special verb rear means
‘to raise a human being’ and is not used with reference to either plants or animals.
Since there are special verbs meaning ‘to raise a plant’ and ‘to raise a human be-
ing’, the occurrence of another special verb meaning ‘to raise an animal’ seems
possible in principle. The lack of such a verb is an example of what Chomsky calls
an “accidental semantic gap” (cf. ibid.: 232). Lehrer suggests that the gap in ques-
tion may be filled by the verb breed (cf. Lehrer 1974: 108). However, breed means
‘to raise an animal or plant’ and does not apply specifically to animals (cf. Collins
English Dictionary 1986; Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary 2000). Though
breed may be used to refer to the action of raising animals, a special English verb
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 97
meaning ‘to raise an animal’ is still lacking. The lexical field constituted by raise
and its actualised and potential hyponyms shows the same pattern in German,
where a special verb meaning ‘to raise an animal’ is also lacking (though there is a
special German verb – anbauen – which may only be used to refer to the action of
growing plants). However, there is a special Dutch verb, namely fokken, which has
precisely this meaning and may not be used with reference to either human be-
ings or plants. (The Dutch verb kweken is normally used with reference to plants;
when it is used in conjunction with animals it means ‘to raise animals which are
meant to be kept as pets’.) More general verbs such as raise are lacking in German
as well as in Dutch. Figure 1 represents the structure of the lexical field containing
raise and its actualised and potential hyponyms in English, German and Dutch.
(Missing lexicalisations are indicated by the symbol ‘∅’.)
Chomsky’s distinction between accidental and systematic gaps has much in
common with the distinction I have drawn between lexical gaps and matrix prod-
ucts (cf. Section 2.2.4.5). What I have called “matrix products” corresponds to
Chomsky’s systematic gaps. These are gaps which would have to be filled by im-
possible lexical entries and can therefore not be filled in principle. Matrix products
as I have defined them are also gaps which cannot be filled in principle, because
they would have to be filled by lexical items which do not correspond to concepts.
Specifically, I have defined matrix products as combinations of parameter values
which do not have a conceptual counterpart. Chomsky’s accidental semantic gaps
correspond to what I understand by “lexical gaps”. Accidental semantic gaps are
defined by Chomsky as empty slots in the vocabulary which could be but are not
filled by possible lexical entries. I have defined the notion of lexical gaps in much
the same way, suggesting in particular that lexical gaps are empty slots in the
vocabulary which correspond to concepts in speakers’ minds. On both accounts,
lexical (or accidental semantic) gaps are defined in terms of the non-occurrence
of possible lexical items.
Figure 1.  Actualised and potential hyponyms of raise
98	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
The fact that it is necessary to draw a distinction between matrix products
and genuine lexical gaps suggests that not any empty slot in a matrix may be re-
garded as a gap in the lexicon of a particular language. Rather, a matrix gap has to
meet certain requirements in order to be assigned the status of a lexical gap. In the
course of this section, I shall propose several such requirements and formulate
them in the form of constraints on lexical gaps. Constraint I below captures the
distinction between matrix gaps and lexical gaps:
		 CONSTRAINT I
		 A matrix gap may be regarded as a lexical gap only if it may be filled in prin-
ciple, i.e. if it may be filled by a possible lexical item.
This constraint obviously raises the question of what is and what is not a possible
lexical item. As I have pointed out before, this question may be answered formally
(e.g. from a syntactic or phonological point of view) and/or in terms of what is
conceptually conceivable. In the next section, Constraint I will be extended to
include a specification of what I shall consider to be a possible lexical item.
3.3.2	 Lehrer (1974)
Like Chomsky, Lehrer argues that there is no question of postulating lexical gaps
(Chomsky’s “accidental semantic gaps”) in cases where gaps would have to be
filled by impossible lexical items. The difference between possible and impossible
lexical items is determined by cross-linguistic principles as well as by such which
apply internally to a specific language. Lehrer quotes the following general restric-
tions on possible lexical items suggested by Morgan (cf. Morgan 1968: 4, quoted
in Lehrer 1974: 102–103; examples are Morgan’s):
a.	 A possible lexical item must have a semantic structure that corresponds to the
semantic structure of grammatical constituents.
	 (This constraint rules out a verb such as sneep replacing saw and hippie in
a sentence like John [saw] Mary laying a wreath at the grave of the unknown
[hippie], because saw and hippie do not form a constituent (hence the un-
grammaticality of *John sneeped Mary laying a wreath at the grave of the un-
known.)
b.	 A whole sentence cannot be replaced by a single word.
c.	 Verbs cannot incorporate referential indices.
	 Because of this constraint, it is impossible for there to be a verb such as
dechocotate meaning ‘to cut off the head of a specific cat called Choco’. By
contrast, the verb decapitate (meaning ‘to cut off somebody’s head’) is not
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 99
ruled out by c, because it does not incorporate a word referring to a single
individual. As Lehrer points out, examples like Let’s deNixon the White House
suggest that restriction c may be too strong.
While restrictions a–c determine what is and what is not a possible lexical item
in general, the distinction between possible and impossible lexical items also de-
pends on the structure of the lexicon of a particular language. Lehrer claims that
what is a possible lexical item in a particular language depends on the lexical
items which exist in that language and on the kinds of components they incor-
porate. Lehrer uses English kinship terms to illustrate this point. Since child is a
cover term for son and daughter, and parent is a cover term for mother and father,
Lehrer argues that the lack of a term superordinate to aunt and uncle, or to niece
and nephew constitutes lexical gaps in English. By contrast, Lehrer claims that
the lack of a lexical item meaning ‘elder brother or sister’ does not count as a
lexical gap in English, because the parameter ‘age of sibling relative to ego’ is not
lexicalised in English. If a new word such as *elbrosis (example Lehrer’s) mean-
ing ‘someone’s elder brother’ were to become part of the English lexicon so that
it would be normal to say My elbrosis came to visit today, a new parameter ‘age of
sibling relative to ego’ would be established, and a new lexical gap, namely the lack
of a word meaning ‘younger sibling’, would emerge (cf. Lehrer 1974: 103–104).
Another example quoted by Lehrer is oyako, a Japanese kinship term meaning
‘parent and child’ (cf. McCawley 1970, quoted in Lehrer 1974: 103). Lehrer argues
that the lack of a word meaning ‘parent and child’ does not constitute a lexical gap
in English, because English kinship terms do not lexicalise a parameter such as
‘relatives of different generations’ (except for highly general terms such as ances-
tor and descendent). These examples show that what counts as a possible lexical
item and consequently as a lexical gap in Lehrer’s view depends on the parameters
lexicalised by the items pertaining to a particular lexical field in a particular lan-
guage. Where a certain parameter fails to get lexicalised, lexical gaps may not be
postulated.
Lehrer was of course right in claiming that what counts as a lexical gap in a
particular language depends on the structure of the relevant lexical field and that
the structure of a lexical field is determined by the kinds of components lexi-
calised by the items pertaining to that field. What is not correct, though, is Lehrer’s
claim that lexical gaps may not be postulated where a particular parameter fails
to get lexicalised. Lehrer argues that the lack of a word meaning ‘parent and child’
does not constitute a lexical gap in English, because a parameter such as ‘relatives
of different generations’ is not lexicalised by English kinship terms. Though it is
true that no such parameter is relevant to the meaning of English kinship terms,
speakers of English and other similar languages certainly do dispose of the con-
100	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
cept PARENT AND CHILD. Claiming that the lack of a word for that concept
may not be regarded as an instance of a lexical gap in English amounts to saying
that the concept PARENT AND CHILD does not exist in the minds of speakers
of English (though it does of course exist in the minds of speakers of Japanese).
The problem with Lehrer’s view on lexical gaps is that it does not take into account
what does or what does not exist as concepts in speakers’ minds. Lehrer defines
gaps as instances of the non-occurrence of a lexical item in a particular slot in the
structure of a lexical field. Though any definition of lexical gaps must necessarily
make reference to the structure of a lexical field, the phenomenon of lexical gaps
also always involves a conceptual dimension. I shall come back to this issue in
my discussion of Lyons’ view on lexical gaps in the next section. At this point, it
suffices to say that Lehrer’s claim that lexical gaps cannot exist where a particular
parameter fails to get lexicalised must be rejected as soon as the phenomenon
of lexical gaps is regarded as being related not only to the structure of a lexical
field but also to concepts in speakers’ minds. Additionally, excluding lexical gaps
where a specific parameter is not lexicalised is also problematic from a cross-lin-
guistic perspective. The lexicon of a particular language is likely to reflect what is
of special relevance to a particular speech community. It therefore seems reason-
able to assume that a cross-linguistic comparison of lexical gaps will shed light on
culture-specific differences among languages. If lexical gaps are excluded where
a specific parameter is not lexicalised in a particular language, a cross-linguistic
comparison of lexical gaps becomes impossible in principle. For example, if the
lack of a word meaning ‘parent and child’ does not count as a lexical gap in Eng-
lish, English and Japanese kinship terms cannot be compared at all. It makes more
sense to say that the lack of an English counterpart for oyako (‘parent and child’)
constitutes a gap in the vocabulary of English as compared to that of Japanese. If
lexical gaps are excluded where a parameter is not lexicalised, culture-specific dif-
ferences in the vocabularies of individual languages may no longer be observed
and lexical gaps can be studied with respect to one language only.
Having defined lexical gaps as gaps which may be filled by possible lexical
items, Lehrer argues that not all possible lexical items for which there is no term
are instances of lexical gaps. She claims that additional requirements must be met
for an instance of a missing but possible lexical item to have the status of a lexical
gap. To capture these, Lehrer proposes the following additional constraints (cf.
Lehrer 1974: 104–105):
a.	 There are no gaps for “lexically impossible concepts”.
	 This constraint rules out postulating gaps for combinations of parameter
values representing impossible concepts such as CASTRATED WOMAN or
ROUND SQUARE. These cases are similar to some of the examples I have
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 101
mentioned in my discussion of Baumgärtner’s ordering system. In Section
2.2.2.3, I have mentioned combinations of truth-values which do not repre-
sent concepts. Examples of such combinations include the following:
	 –	 a combination of truth values which would correspond to the concept
	 of a speech act performed by a speaker requesting a hearer to do some-
	 thing which he knew the hearer would have done anyway.
	 –	 a combination of truth-values which would correspond to the concept of
	 a speech act performed by a speaker who forbids a hearer to do some-
	 thing which he knew the hearer would not have done anyway.
	 Such combinations of speaker attitudes may not be lexicalised in principle,
i.e. by a possible lexical item. What is and what is not a possible lexical item
depends on what may and what may not exist as a concept in speakers’ minds:
What does not exist as a concept is not a possible lexical item.
b.	 There are no lexical gaps for non-existent objects, situations etc. (Lehrer ad-
mits that this constraint is too strong as it stands and suggests that it should
be stated relative to a possible world of things, facts and beliefs.)
	 Excluding lexical gaps for non-existent objects, facts, situations, etc. makes
sense, because entities which do not exist within a particular speech commu-
nity are not known by the speakers of that community. It seems obvious that
speakers do not have concepts for entities which they do not know.
c.	 In order for there to be a lexical gap, there must be at least one member in
each row or column of the matrix of parameters. (According to Lehrer, this
constraint excludes the lack of a word for GREEN BOTTLE as an instance
of a lexical gap, because ‘colour’ is not a parameter lexicalised by container
words.)
	 The fact that each row or column in the matrices in Lehrer’s examples contains
at least one lexical item is by itself related to the issue of constraints on lexi-
cal gaps. It results from Lehrer’s requirement that a particular parameter be
lexicalised in a particular language in order for there to be a lexical gap. Empty
rows or columns in a matrix may only occur where a particular parameter is
not lexicalised at all. ‘Age of sibling relative to ego’, for example, is a parameter
not lexicalised in English (cf. Lehrer’s hypothetical word *elbrosis). Because of
that, the relevant row or column in a matrix of English kinship terms would
be empty. However, such cases are excluded by Lehrer’s requirement that a pa-
rameter be lexicalised in a particular language in order for there to be a lexical
gap. When lexical gaps are studied relative to one language only, empty rows
or columns in a matrix may in fact not occur at all. A matrix representing the
structure of a lexical field is always built on the basis of the lexical items exis-
102	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
tent in a particular language. Specifically, the parameters of such a matrix are
derived from the meanings of existent words. As a consequence, parameters
which are not lexicalised in the language under investigation will not turn up
in the matrix. Hence, the matrix will not contain any empty rows or columns.
These may only occur when other languages are taken into account which
have words lexicalising completely different parameters. Theoretically, a pa-
rameter like ‘colour’ could be lexicalised by container words in languages other
than English. Likewise, the possibility that a parameter such as ‘age of sibling
relative to ego’ is relevant to the meaning of kinship terms in certain languages
cannot be excluded beforehand. A matrix built on parameters from different
languages is much more likely to contain empty rows or columns than one
whose parameters derive from one language only.
d.	 A component must appear in at least one word in a field in order to be used
in postulating a gap. For example, there is no word in the container field
which lexicalises the component [+colour: green] (though a container may
be green), and therefore the lack of a lexical item meaning ‘a green container
made of wood, for the purpose of storing seaweed’ cannot be regarded as an
instance of a lexical gap.
	 Though this observation is correct when lexical gaps are studied relative to
one language only, the constraint turns out to be problematic from a cross-
linguistic point of view: A component which is not lexicalised by any lexical
item in one language may still be part of the meaning of one or more lexical
items in another. A gap involving a component not lexicalised by any lexical
item in a particular language has the status of a lexical gap as long as it cor-
responds to a concept.
e.	 The components relevant to postulating gaps are limited to the basic words
in a lexical field; the components found in peripheral words are not relevant
in postulating gaps. Lehrer distinguishes between basic and peripheral words
on the basis of the criteria proposed by Berlin & Kay (cf. Berlin & Kay 1970).
According to these criteria, basic words show the following characteristics (cf.
Lehrer 1974: 10–11):
	 –	 They are monolexemic.
	 –	 Their application is not restricted to a narrow class of objects. (According
	 to this criterion, auburn is not a basic word, because it can only be applied
	 to hair.)
	 –	 They are psychologically salient.
	 –	 Doubtful forms should have the same distributional potential as the basic
	 ones.
	 –	 Recent foreign loan words are unlikely to be basic words.
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 103
The most peripheral words will fail to meet the criteria proposed above: They are
likely to be morphologically complex, restricted in their application and distri-
bution, recent loan words, and unknown to many speakers of the language (cf.
ibid.: 11). Lehrer mentions bake, boil and fry as examples of basic words in the
field of cooking words, while scald, carmelise and clarify are peripheral according
to the criteria of Berlin & Kay (cf. ibid.: 17–18). A distinction between basic and
peripheral speech act verbs and verbs of communication is much more difficult
to draw. Since all of these verbs are both well-known and widely used, there is no
reason why some of them should be excluded from a study of lexical gaps. The
assumption that polylexemic expressions are peripheral is not without difficulties
either. If morphologically complex words are considered to be peripheral, idioms
and collocations may be expected to be so to an even higher degree. If idioms and
collocations are indeed highly peripheral, this means that there are almost as many
basic as peripheral communicative expressions. In German, for example, there are
715 simple and 676 complex communicative expressions (polysemous expressions
being counted as often as they have different senses) (cf. Section 4.3.1).
On the whole, my criticism of Lehrer’s constraints may be summarised as
follows:
–	 Lehrer correctly defines lexical gaps as empty slots in the structure of a lexical
field, but her definition does not make reference to the notion of concepts. As
opposed to Lehrer, I argue that a proper definition of lexical gaps must make
reference not only to the structure of a lexical field but also to the notion of
concepts.
–	 Though many of the constraints proposed by Lehrer may be relevant to a
study of gaps in the lexicon of a particular language, most of them do not ap-
ply when lexical gaps are studied cross-linguistically. A cross-linguistic study
of lexical gaps even becomes impossible as a consequence of Lehrer’s con-
straints.
Of the constraints proposed by Lehrer, those which are useful to a cross-linguistic
study of lexical gaps are covered by Constraint I mentioned above, which may
now be stated somewhat more elaborately as follows:
		 CONSTRAINT I (Lexical gaps)
		 A gap in the structure of a lexical field is a lexical gap only if it may be filled by
a possible lexical item (i.e. a lexical item which corresponds to a concept).
Though I have shown by now which requirements must be met by matrix gaps
in order to have the status of lexical gaps, not all instances of matrix gaps which
correspond to concepts may be regarded as lexical gaps. For matrix gaps to be
104	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
instances of lexical gaps, the following requirement must be met apart from the
requirement that they correspond to concepts:
		 CONSTRAINT II (Lexical gaps)
		 An instance of a missing (but possible) lexical item may be regarded as a lexi-
cal gap only if it corresponds to an event, action or state of affairs which is
practically conceivable.
With respect to the lexicalisation of communication concepts, Constraint II im-
plies that an instance of a missing but possible lexical item qualifies as a lexical gap
only if it corresponds to a combination of parameter values representing a pattern
of what is regarded common human practice. In my discussion of Baumgärtner’s
ordering system (Section 2.2.2.3), I have mentioned several combinations of pa-
rameter values which would be ruled out as lexical gaps by this constraint. Ex-
amples include the following:
–	 a combination of parameter values representing the concept of a speech act
performed by a speaker who says that he is against some P which is both ex-
pectable and to the speaker’s own interest (Such a combination would have to
be lexicalised by a “masochistic” predicate.)
–	 a combination of parameter values representing the concept of a speech act
performed by a speaker saying that he is against some P which is both ex-
pectable and to the hearer’s interest. As I have pointed out in Section 2.2.2.3,
only “sadistic” predicates are possible lexicalisations for such combinations of
parameter values.
The concepts represented by these combinations of parameter values are possible
in principle, i.e. they are not ruled out by logical principles. Hence, the corre-
sponding gaps in the lexical field may be filled in principle, i.e. by possible lexical
items. This means that the lexicalisation of these combinations is not prevented by
Constraint I on lexical gaps. Rather, these combinations may fail to get lexicalised
because the speech acts to which they correspond would go beyond what is es-
teemed to be an appropriate distance between a speaker and a hearer. Lexicalisa-
tions for such combinations of parameter values may be ruled out for reasons
of common human practice, especially because of principles of communication
ethics.
Though Lehrer does not mention practical feasibility as a constraint on gaps,
some of her examples from the field of cooking terms actually illustrate this point.
Lehrer points out, for example, that there is no term for cooking in fat under
a broiler. Though the performance of such an action is not altogether a logical
impossibility, cooking in fat under a broiler is not a sensible cooking method,
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 105
because the fat is likely to catch on fire (cf. Lehrer 1974: 101). Thus, a lexical item
for this kind of cooking method is lacking because of practical reasons, though
the existence of such a term is not principally impossible.
3.3.3	 Lyons (1977)
Lyons’ discussion of lexical gaps is concerned only with what Lehrer calls “matrix
gaps” (cf. Lehrer 1974: 97). Following Lehrer, Lyons defines matrix gaps as empty
slots in the structure of a lexical field. By restricting his discussion of lexical gaps
to instances of matrix gaps, Lyons excludes cases of missing lexicalisations denot-
ing objects which do not exist in a particular speech community as well as such
which would encapsulate the senses of contradictory syntagmatic modifiers (e.g.
‘married bachelor’ or ‘square circle’). As I have pointed out in the previous sec-
tion, excluding missing lexicalisations like these makes sense, because they do not
correspond to concepts in speakers’ minds. For one thing, speakers cannot have
mental representations of objects they do not know. Apart from that, senses like
‘married bachelor’ or ‘square circle’ may safely be discarded as being nonsensi-
cal. Speakers may of course find some kind of interpretation for phrases such as
a married bachelor or a square circle (e.g. ‘a married man behaving as if he were
a bachelor’ or ‘a badly drawn circle’), but concepts like AN UNMARRIED MAN
WHO IS MARRIED or A CIRCLE WITH FOUR STRAIGHT EQUAL SIDES
AND FOUR ANGLES OF 90° are excluded by logical principles.
Lyons discusses matrix gaps with respect to hierarchical structure. He is con-
cerned specifically with two kinds of lexical gaps: missing hyperonyms of exist-
ing co-hyponyms and missing hyponyms of existing hyperonyms. In English, as
in many other languages, labels for superordinate categories are often missing.
Lyons’ examples include the absence of immediate superordinate terms for pairs
of opposites such as go-come; teacher-pupil and buy-sell (cf. ibid.: 302). Examples
of missing hyponyms are also frequent. One of Lyons’ examples is the absence
of an antipodal opposite in French for the adjective profond. While there are op-
posites for adjectives like haut (‘high’) and long (‘long’), viz. bas and court respec-
tively, there is no lexicalised expression in French meaning ‘not deep’ or ‘deep to
a small degree’. Since speakers of English may use the adjective shallow to express
the concept DEEP TO A SMALL DEGREE, there is no gap in the correspond-
ing slot in the vocabulary of English. Lyons argues that the absence of a lexical
expression meaning ‘deep to a small degree’ in French presents a clear case of a
lexical gap because of the existence of adjectives such as bas and court, which are
antipodal opposites of haut and long respectively. According to Lyons, the absence
of an adjective meaning ‘deep to a small degree’ could not be considered an in-
106	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
stance of a lexical gap if French lacked expressions like bas and court and regularly
made use of expressions like peu haut (or pas haut) and peu long (or pas long) (cf.
ibid.: 305). Lyons’ argument sheds light on what he understands by “lexical gaps”:
Whether a matrix gap counts as a lexical gap in a particular language depends on
the types of distinctions lexicalised in that language. Thus, the absence of a lexical
item meaning ‘deep to a small degree’ in French is a case of a lexical gap, because
lexical items (here adjectives) are regularly used in French to describe antipodal
opposites in spatial extension or location.
Lyons’ view on lexical gaps is identical to that expressed by Lehrer. On both
accounts, what counts as a lexical gap depends on the parameters lexicalised in
a particular language. Lyons and Lehrer both exclude lexical gaps where specific
parameters or distinctions fail to get lexicalised. From a purely structuralist point
of view, it does make sense to exclude from the inventory of lexical gaps non-ex-
isting expressions which would lexicalise distinctions not lexicalised in a particu-
lar language. However, as I have argued in my discussion of Lehrer’s constraints,
such a position may be maintained only when we are concerned solely with the
internal structure of a particular language; it becomes untenable as soon as more
than one language is taken into account. Additionally, a purely structuralist view
on lexical gaps ignores the conceptual dimension essential to the phenomenon
of lexical gaps. Stating that non-existent expressions which would lexicalise dis-
tinctions not lexicalised in a particular language are not instances of lexical gaps
amounts to saying that these non-existent expressions do not correspond to con-
cepts in speakers’ minds. Such a conclusion would prove to be problematic in a
large number of cases. Even if there were no such adjectives such as bas and court
in French, this could not be taken to imply that speakers of French do not have
concepts such as DEEP (or HIGH or LONG) TO A SMALL DEGREE. Lyons’
discussion of the absence of a French expression meaning ‘deep to a small de-
gree’ shows that the notion of lexical gaps cannot be defined in structuralist terms
alone. The phenomenon of lexical gaps essentially concerns the relation between
concepts and lexical items. Any definition of lexical gaps must therefore make
reference to the structure of a lexical field on the one hand and to concepts on the
other. According to such a definition, there would be three gaps instead of none at
all if a particular language had no adjectives such as high, low and deep to describe
spatial extension or location.
3.3.4	 Verschueren (1985)
Verschueren (Verschueren 1985: Chapter 6) was concerned with the occurrence
of gaps in the domain of English and Dutch “linguistic action verbials”. The term
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 107
“linguistic action verbials” covers simple as well as complex lexicalisations used
to refer to speech acts. Verschueren proposes two lexicalisation principles to ac-
count for the distribution of gaps in the domain of linguistic action verbials: a
hearer-oriented principle and a so-called “Principle of Harmony of Interaction”.
The hearer-oriented principle is used to explain patterns in the occurrence of
gaps in the domain of expressives. It states that emotions and attitudes impor-
tant to the hearer get lexicalised rather than such which are less important to the
relationship of speaker and hearer. Not each of the utterances in (1a)–(1c), for
example, may be referred to by a special linguistic action verbial (examples are
Verschueren’s):
	 (1)	 a.	 I am glad that I have got the fellowship.
		 b.	 I am glad that you have got the fellowship.
		 c.	 (I am) glad/pleased to meet you.
While the utterances in (1b) and (1c) may be referred to by the verbs congratu-
late (German gratulieren, Dutch gelukwensen) and greet (German grüßen, Dutch
groeten) respectively, there is no special linguistic action verbial in either English,
German or Dutch which may be used to describe the utterance in (1a). According
to Verschueren, this is due to the importance of the expressed psychological state
to the hearer. An utterance like I am glad that I have got the fellowship is not im-
portant for the relationship between speaker and hearer, and hence its degree of
cognitive salience is low. As a result, it tends to be “forgotten” in the lexicalisation
process. By contrast, a speaker uttering (1b) or (1c) expresses a psychological state
which is of crucial importance to the hearer. The relevance of the psychological
state expressed to the relationship of speaker and hearer increases its cognitive sa-
lience to the effect that its conceptualisation and lexicalisation become inevitable
(cf. Verschueren 1985: 188–195).
Verschueren’s second principle, the Principle of Harmony of Interaction, ap-
plies to linguistic action verbials used to refer to responses to different kinds of
speech acts. According to this principle, there are no special linguistic action ver-
bials for responses which preserve the harmony of the interaction between spea­
ker and hearer. Where a positive answer is expected (as in example (2) below), a
negative one is cognitively more salient:
	 (2)	 a.	 Come here, Michael.
		 b.	 Okay
		 c.	 No, I won’t.
The positive response in (2b) is the harmonious reaction expected to the order in
(2a). Since the answer in (2b) preserves the harmony of the interaction between
108	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
speaker and hearer, its degree of cognitive salience is low. As a result, responses
like these are “forgotten” in the lexicalisation process. Since the response in (2c)
disrupts the harmony of interaction, it is cognitively more salient than that in (2a)
and hence there is a special linguistic action verbial (refuse, German sich weigern,
Dutch weigeren) to refer to it (cf. Verchueren 1985: 195–200).
Verschueren also uses the Principle of Harmony of Interaction to explain the
lack of descriptive verbials for routine responses of a fixed formulaic nature. There
are no linguistic action verbials at all, for example, to describe the responses in
(3b)–(3f) to the utterance in (3a):
	 (3)	 a.	 I am sorry for having been so rude to you.
		 b.	 No harm done.
		 c.	 Never mind.
		 d.	 That’s quite all right.
		 e.	 Please, don’t worry.
		 f.	 Forget it.
Verschueren attributes the lack of descriptive verbials for the responses in (3b)–
(3f) to the high degree of automaticity involved in their performance. He argues
that utterances like that in (3a) are not complete unless an appropriate routine
response follows. The responses in (3b)–(3f) are part of the act and tend to escape
our attention as separate speech acts. Since the degree of automaticity involved
in the performance of (3b)–(3f) is high, the degree of cognitive salience of these
responses is low and hence they fail to get lexicalised (cf. ibid.: 200–203).
According to Verschueren, the hearer-oriented principle and the Principle
of Harmony of Interaction are both manifestations of a superordinate Principle
of Cognitive Salience. The Principle of Cognitive Salience states that linguistic
actions which have a high degree of cognitive salience get lexicalised rather than
such which are cognitively less salient (cf. ibid.: 204). What may be explained in
terms of cognitive salience may possibly also be explained in terms of marked-
ness. In Chapter 2 (Section 2.2.3.5), I have argued that marked patterns of be-
haviour get lexicalised rather than such which are considered to be “normal” or
unmarked. Thus, there is a remarkable parallelism between what would be stated
by a Principle of Markedness and what is stated by Verschueren’s Principle of
Cognitive Salience. The only difference between the two principles is that the for-
mer applies to the level of social interaction while the latter concerns the cognitive
level. So far it is not clear what may be gained by explaining in terms of cogni-
tive principles what may also (and perhaps more easily) be explained in terms
of principles of social interaction. Cognitive principles will have to be called for,
however, if some of the lexicalisation patterns observed prove to hold for a large
number of typologically distinct languages: what counts as a marked pattern of
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 109
behaviour is likely to be culture-specific. In Section 3.6, I shall explore whether
cognitive principles may explain anything which cannot be explained in terms of
pragmatic principles alone.
3.3.5	 Fellbaum (1996)
In her comments on the structure of WordNet, Fellbaum claims that the use of
“pseudo-words” is indispensable to the representation of the lexicon as a semantic
network (cf. Section 2.1). “Pseudo-words” represent connecting nodes in the rela-
tions among “real”, i.e. existent, words in cases where “real words” for these nodes
are lacking. In the absence of such “pseudo-words”, the relations among existent
words would be interrupted (cf. Fellbaum 1996: 223). Fellbaum concludes that the
question of whether there is anything systematic about the distribution of lexical
gaps remains undecided. Given that Fellbaum’s observations on lexical gaps were
based on some sporadic examples from different sections of the vocabulary, such
a conclusion does not come as a surprise. If the occurrence of lexical gaps may
be explained at all, it may be explained only with reference to a conceptual sys-
tem. Since each section of the vocabulary requires a conceptual system of its own,
regularities in the occurrence of lexical gaps are likely to go unnoticed in a study
based on a few sporadic examples from different sections of the lexicon. Fellbaum
did notice, though, that lexical gaps tend to occur towards the top of a hierarchy
(cf. ibid.: 224). There are no words in English, for example, for the superordinate
categories referred to by the “pseudo-words” wheeled vehicle and bad person.
The claim that words for superordinate categories are often missing also ap-
plies to the fields of speech act verbs and verbs of communication. There are
no general verbs, for example, which may be used to refer to different kinds of
situations in which a speaker utters one or more utterances with a propositional
content P (henceforth: Utt(P)) with a specific rhythmic pattern. Hyponyms of
this non-lexicalised superordinate category are verbs like stutter and stammer
(German stottern and stammeln; Dutch stotteren and stamelen), reel off (German
(he)runterleiern; Dutch afraffelen), rattle off (German (he)runterrasseln; Dutch
aframmelen) and chant (German skandieren; Dutch scanderen) (cf. Figure 2 be-
low).
Though general verbs are sometimes missing in the fields of speech act verbs
and verbs of communication, more specific verbs do not always occur where they
may be expected either. An example is the field containing representatives like
inform, communicate, impart, etc., which may be used to refer to many differ-
ent types of situations in which a speaker informs a hearer of an action, event
or state of affairs P. Some types of speech acts referred to by inform sometimes
110	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
involve a particular speaker (or group of speakers), a particular hearer (or group
of hearers) or a particular communication medium. However, there are no special
verbs to refer to these particular acts of informing. In German and Dutch, special
acts of informing somebody of something may be referred to by modifications of
collocations such as eine Mitteilung machen (German) and een mededeling doen
(Dutch). A specific hearer (or group of hearers) is lexicalised by expressions such
as eine Pressemitteilung machen (German) and een mededeling doen aan de pers
(Dutch), which both mean ‘to inform the press’, while expressions like eine Regier-
ungsmitteilung machen (German) and een mededeling in naam van de regering
doen (Dutch) (both meaning ‘to inform sb. (usually the public) on behalf of the
government’) lexicalise a specific speaker (or group of speakers). Though colloca-
tions are also elements of the lexicon, their lexical status is by no means compara-
ble to that of words. Since the degree of compositionality of collocations is much
higher than that of words, they belong to the periphery of the lexicon. Because of
this, collocations may hardly be regarded as fillers of gaps in the word inventory.
The issue of the lexical status of words, idioms and collocations will be dealt with
in Section 4.2. (The English translation inform sb. on behalf of the government is a
free combination of words.) Similarly, acts of informing sb. of sth. by means of a
particular communication medium (e.g. the phone, a written or spoken message
etc.) may not be referred to by verbs but have to be expressed by collocations such
as eine mündliche/schriftliche/telefonische Mitteilung machen (German) and een
mondelinge/schriftelijke/telefonische mededeling doen (Dutch), which may only be
translated into English by free combinations of words such as give sb. a piece of
oral/written information. On the whole, the field containing representatives like
inform, communicate, impart, etc. shows a large number of gaps at the bottom of
the hierarchy (cf. Figure 3).
Figure 2.  Verbs of communication expressing rhythm (English, German and Dutch)
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 111
The lack of representatives for special acts of informing somebody of some-
thing contradicts Fellbaum’s claim that lexical gaps tend to occur towards the top
of a hierarchy. Rather, the distribution of gaps in the fields of speech act verbs and
verbs of communication shows that gaps occur at the lower as well as the higher
levels. Harras (cf. Harras 1998) has suggested that this pattern may be an effect
of the Basic Level Principle proposed by Rosch et al. (cf. Rosch et al. 1976). Ac-
cording to these authors, the basic level is the highest level at which a composite
mental image can be formed. It contains words such as dog, shirt, tree, book, flower
etc. Hyponyms of these (e.g. daffodil, rose, tulip, oak, acorn, fir, beech, etc.) are
semantically more specific than basic level words. If lexical fields are represented
as hierarchical structures with the most general items occurring at the top and the
most specific at the bottom, the basic level is the intermediate level in the hierar-
chy. If the basic level is indeed the most salient one from a cognitive point of view
as well as the one which is most easily accessible (as Rosch et al. claim), it should
not be surprising that lexical gaps cluster at the highest and lowest levels while
most lexical items occur at the level in between. However, such an explanation
has yet to be tested by psycholinguistic experiments. The Basic Level Principle
was originally introduced as a psycholinguistic principle and was subsequently
used to explain the organisation of lexical fields, especially such containing con-
crete nouns such as words for artefacts and natural kind terms. It is therefore not
clear whether this principle may also be used to explain some of the regularities
observed in the lexical fields of abstract words such as speech act verbs and verbs
of communication.
The discussion of Fellbaum’s claims has shown that lexical gaps in the fields
of speech act verbs and verbs of communication tend to occur on the highest and
lowest levels of a hierarchy rather than on the level in between. This means that
the distribution of lexical gaps across this section of the vocabulary does indeed
Figure 3.  Lack of verbs for special acts of informing somebody of something
112	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
show certain regularities and that some of these may be explained in terms of
principles of lexical organisation.
The discussion of the Basic Level Principle as a principle governing the lexi-
calisation of communication concepts shows that, apart from the two constraints
already mentioned, there is an additional requirement which matrix gaps have to
fulfil if they are to be assigned the status of lexical gaps. This constraint concerns
the level of specificity of lexical items and may be formulated as follows:
		 CONSTRAINT III
		 A matrix gap may be regarded as a lexical gap only if there is no special lexical
item to fill it.
Constraint III states that matrix gaps count as lexical gaps even if there is a more
general term (i.e. one with a lower degree of specificity) which may be used to
fill it. As a consequence, the lack of a special English verb for a concept such as
TO INFORM THE PRESS counts as a lexical gap even though the corresponding
speech act may be referred to by representatives like inform, communicate etc.
3.3.6	 Allan (2001)
In his discussion of meronymy, Allan mentions the absence of an English word
for the limb dubbed *arm-hand as an example of a lexical gap in the meronymic
hierarchy including finger, hand, arm and body (cf. Allan 2001: 265):
				






	 finger’ (x) → x is part of a hand		






					 hand’ (y) → y is part of an *arm-hand
					 hand’ (y) → y is part of a body
	
∀ w, x, y, z			 arm’ (z) → z is part of an *arm-hand
					 arm’ (z) → z is part of a body
					 *arm-hand → w is part of a body
The hand and the arm are distinct parts of the body: to cut one’s hand is not to
cut one’s arm nor vice versa. However, if one loses one’s arm, one also loses the
hand attached to it. The missing word *arm-hand would be used to refer to the
part of the body including the hand and the arm. Allan points out that in this case
meronymy is logically transitive: a finger is part of a hand, an arm-hand and a
body (cf. ibid.: 265). Allan defines lexical gaps in terms of concepts which are part
of a conceptual field:
A LEXICAL GAP exists when there is no listeme in the language for a concept
within a conceptual field in which adjacent concepts are named.
 (Allan 2001: 265)
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 113
(In Allan’s terminology, a listeme is a language expression whose meaning is not
determinable from the meanings (if any) of its constituent forms; cf. ibid.: 6). In-
sofar as Allan’s definition of a lexical gap presupposes the existence of a concept,
it is similar to what I have formulated as Constraint I (“A gap in the structure of a
lexical field is a lexical gap only if it may be filled by a possible lexical item, i.e. a
lexical item corresponding to a concept”).
3.3.7	 Cruse (2004)
Cruse distinguishes between lexical gaps occurring in taxonomic hierarchies and
such which can be found in meronymic ones (cf. Cruse 2004: 176–183). He de-
fines taxonomic hierarchies as classificatory systems reflecting the way speakers
of a language categorise the world of experience (cf. ibid.: 176). Like Fellbaum,
Cruse points out that in such hierarchies lexical gaps frequently occur in levels
above the basic level. As an example he mentions the absence of a superordinate
term in English for the set of verbs meaning ‘going under one’s own steam on
land’ (for an animal or human). Hyponyms of this missing superordinate term
would include crawl, walk, run, hop, etc. The absence of a verb for the more gener-
al notion of ‘going under one’s own steam’, whose hyponyms would be the missing
verb meaning ‘going under one’s own steam on land’ as well as verbs like swim and
fly, provides a further example of a gap in a taxonomic hierarchy (cf. ibid.: 178).
Meronymic hierarchies are defined as lexical hierarchies, “... in which the relation
of dominance is (the converse of) meronymy, and the relation of differentiation is
co-meronymy” (cf. ibid.: 180). Cruse mentions the absence of a word for the part
of a fork to which the prongs are attached as well as the non-existence of a word
for the part of the hand to which the fingers are attached, and of which the palm
and the back are parts, as examples of lexical gaps in meronymic hierarchies (cf.
ibid.: 181–182).
Essential to Cruse’s notion of lexical gaps is the existence of a concept:
We speak of a lexical gap when there is intuitive or other evidence of the existence
of a well-established concept corresponding to the point in the structure where
the gap occurs. (Cruse 2004: 178)
In cases where a point in a structure does not correspond to a concept, there is
a conceptual gap, not a lexical one. Cruse’s requirement that lexical gaps corre-
spond to concepts is identical with what I have captured by Constraint I. Accord-
ing to Cruse, the absence of an English equivalent for the French word pommette
(‘rounded part of the cheek over the cheekbone’) is likely to be an instance of a
conceptual gap: English speakers feel no need to single out this area of the cheek
114	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
(cf. Cruse 2004: 183). As Cruse points out, the distinction between a lexical gap
and a conceptual one is by no means easy to make. It is not clear, for example,
whether the absence of an English equivalent for the Turkish word ense (‘back
of the neck’) should be regarded as an example of a lexical or a conceptual gap.
The concept BACK OF THE NECK is easy to grasp for speakers of English, but
so are the concepts RIGHT SIDE OF THE HEAD and UNDERSIDE OF THE
TONGUE. Though all these concepts can be construed by English speakers when
necessary, they “... would not be felt to be salient enough to merit lexical recogni-
tion” (ibid.: 183). Cruse’s intuition is that ense, like pommette, does not lexicalise
a viable concept, i.e. a concept waiting for a name, for speakers of English. This
means that Cruse’s notion of lexical gaps essentially presupposes the existence
if a viable concept, i.e. a concept waiting for a name, which is salient enough in
order to be lexicalised. Insofar as Cruse’s definition makes reference to conceptual
salience, his approach is similar to Verschueren’s.
3.4	 Defining lexical gaps
The discussion of earlier accounts of lexical gaps in the previous section has shown
that lexical gaps may be defined as empty slots in the structure of a lexical field.
What counts as a lexical gap depends on the structure of the field in question. The
structure of a lexical field is determined by the number and type of the semantic
features lexicalised by the expressions pertaining to that field. The meaning of
lexical items may be described in terms of combinations of semantic features. Not
every possible combination of features corresponds to one or more lexical items;
some of them fail to get lexicalised. However, not every combination of features
which is not lexicalised may be regarded as a lexical gap. A combination of se-
mantic features which is not lexicalised counts as a lexical gap if:
–	 it corresponds to a concept; (Combinations of features which are logically
inconceivable do not correspond to concepts. Gaps resulting from such com-
binations may not be filled in principle, i.e. by possible lexical items. Such
combinations of features do not have the status of lexical gaps but are mere
matrix products.)
–	 it represents a pattern of behaviour which is compatible with what is consid-
ered to be common human practice; (Combinations of features representing
patterns of behaviour which deviate from common human practice may not
be lexicalised in principle, even if they are conceptually conceivable.)
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 115
–	 there is no special lexical item whose meaning covers all of the relevant se-
mantic features. (A less specific lexical item does not fill a gap caused by the
absence of a more specific one.)
According to Harras (cf. Harras 1998: 6), lexicalisation is a three-place predicate:
An expression x lexicalises a concept y in a conceptual system z. If lexicalisa-
tion is a three-place predicate, non-lexicalisation is a three-place predicate too:
A lexical gap is an instance of the non-occurrence of a particular lexical item x
for a particular concept y in a conceptual system z. A conceptual ordering system
structures a particular lexical domain. For example, the ordering system for com-
munication concepts outlined in Section 2.2.4 structures the lexical domain of
speech act verbs and verbs of communication. Given that lexicalisation (or non-
lexicalisation) is a three-place predicate and taking into account constraints I–III,
lexical gaps may be defined as follows:
		 LEXICAL GAPS: DEFINITION
		 A lexical gap is an empty slot in the structure of a lexical field resulting from
the absence of a special lexical item x for a concept y which is part of a con-
ceptual system z and corresponds to an event, action or state of affairs which
is practically conceivable.
This definition incorporates constraints I–III as well as the idea that lexicalisation
is a three-place predicate.
3.5	 Detecting lexical gaps
There are basically two ways in which the occurrence of lexical gaps in the do-
main of speech act verbs and verbs of communication may be detected. Gaps
appearing at the conceptual level of meaning and such which occur at the lexical
level of meaning each require their own searching strategy.
3.5.1	 Finding gaps at the conceptual level of meaning
Gaps appearing at the conceptual level of meaning may be detected by combining
all possible values for the attributes of the categorial aspects ‘propositional con-
tent’, ‘propositional attitude of S’, ‘speaker intention’ and ‘speaker presuppositions’
so as to reveal all possible (i.e. actualised as well as potential) lexicalisations. The
procedure of detecting lexical gaps by combining possible values for the attributes
of the categorial aspects was introduced in Chapter 2 (Section 2.2.4). Combina-
tions corresponding to speech acts which are not logically conceivable have to
116	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
be excluded. Since such combinations do not represent concepts, they are mere
matrix products and not instances of lexical gaps. Combinations representing
patterns of behaviour which deviate from common human practice have to be
excluded too. As I have pointed out before, such combinations cannot be lexi-
calised in principle, even if they do correspond to concepts. In Section 2.2.4, the
procedure of combining values for the attributes of the categorial aspects has been
explained in much detail. I shall therefore not go into it now. The procedure will
be amply illustrated in the next section, where it will be used to trace gaps in each
of the main classes of speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
One issue which is relevant to an empirical study of lexical gaps is the degree
of specificity of the analysis applied. Obviously, the degree of specificity of the
semantic analysis increases with the number of features taken into account. An
analysis including a large number of semantic features is more specific and is
Figure 4a.  Levels of specificity lexicalised by directives
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 117
therefore likely to yield a larger number of gaps than one incorporating only a
small number of features. This point may be illustrated by a comparison of the
semantic fields constituted by directives and commissives. The number of gaps
observed in these fields depends on the number of semantic features taken into
account. If only the speaker’s propositional attitude, the speaker’s intention and
his/her presuppositions are taken into account, no gaps may be observed in either
field. If, by contrast, a specification of P as the speaker’s or hearer’s going to or
leaving a specific location is additionally taken into account, commissives lexical-
ising a specific location turn out to be missing (cf. Figure 4b above). By contrast, a
specification of P as the speaker’s or hearer’s going to or leaving a specific location
is lexicalised by many different directives in English, German and Dutch (cf. Fig-
ure 4a above). The corresponding gaps in the semantic field constituted by com-
missive predicates may only be observed if, in addition to the speaker attitudes
lexicalised by these verbs, specifications of P are also taken into account.
Figure 4b.  Levels of specificity lexicalised by commissives
118	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
3.5.2	 Finding gaps at the lexical level of meaning
Gaps appearing at the lexical level of meaning may not be discovered by check-
ing which combinations of values for the attributes of the categorial aspects are
lexicalised and which are not. Rather, gaps occurring at the lexical level of mean-
ing may only be traced by a systematic search for hyponyms, hyperonyms and
antonyms of single verbs belonging to a particular lexical field. A search for hy-
ponyms of the more general representative inform, for example, has shown that
verbs for special acts of informing are lacking (cf. Figure 3). Antonyms too are
missing in many lexical fields. There are no antonyms for verbs like boast and
brag, for example. Since these verbs lexicalise a negative evaluation by a resource
situation speaker as well as a positive one by a discourse situation speaker, an­
tonyms of these verbs should lexicalise a negative evaluation by a resource situ-
ation speaker and a positive one by a discourse situation speaker. There are no
verbs in either English, German or Dutch which lexicalise such a combination of
evaluations. (hide one’s light under a bushel – German sein Licht unter den Schef-
fel stellen, Dutch zijn licht onder de korenmaat stellen – may not be rgarded as an
antonym of boast, because it neither lexicalises a negative evaluation by a resource
situation speaker nor a positive one by a discourse situation speaker.)
In the next section, I shall list examples of lexical gaps occurring in each of the
main classes of speech act verbs and verbs of communication. Gaps in the classes
of declarative verbs will not be taken into account. Gaps occurring in these verb
classes differ from those which appear in other verb classes in that the explana-
tion for their occurrence is self-evident: What is and what is not lexicalised by
declarative verbs merely depends on whether the relevant institutional procedure
exists within a particular speech community. The non-occurrence of other types
of speech act verbs is much less obvious and potentially requires many different
types of lexicalisation principles to be explained. Since missing declaratives are
not likely to give us a clue as to which principles govern the lexicalisation of com-
munication concepts, the next section deals with gaps occurring in the classes of
representatives, directives, commissives and expressives as well as with those oc-
curring in the classes of verbs of communication.
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 119
3.6	 Lexical gaps in the fields of speech act verbs and verbs
	 of communication
3.6.1	 Gaps in the fields of representatives
In this section, I shall distinguish two main types of representatives: assertives and
information verbs. Gaps in each of these verb classes will be dealt with separately.
3.6.1.1	 Gaps in the fields of assertives
Assertives are used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she
takes (or does not take) something to be true (or not true). Examples of assertives
include claim, state and say (German behaupten and sagen, Dutch beweren and zeg-
gen), aver, swear, and assure, ... (German beteuern, bekräftigen, versichern; Dutch
zweren, bekrachtigen, ...), revoke, take back (German widerrufen, zurücknehmen,
...; Dutch herroepen, terugnemen), assent and confirm (German zustimmen and
bestätigen; Dutch instemmen and bevestigen) and insist (that sth. is true), maintain
(German beharren auf, bestehen auf; Dutch blijven bij (zijn mening), vasthouden
(aan iets). All these verbs lexicalise combinations of epistemic speaker attitudes.
Verbs like claim, state and say, for example, lexicalise the following combinations
of values for the attributes of the aspects ‘propositional attitude of S’ (Att(S,P)),
‘speaker intention’ (I(S)) and ‘speaker presuppositions’ (Pres(S)):
	 (4)	 


Att(S,P): 	 take to be true (S,P)							 


		 I(S):			 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
		 Pres(S):		 ¬ know (H,P)
								 ⇓
						 claim, state, say
Assertives fail to lexicalise different types of specifications of P. Existing predicates
do not express a specification of P as either P or ¬P, nor do they specify P as being
an event of a particular type (an action, event or state of affairs) which precedes,
coincides with or follows the time of utterance (speech act time). I shall treat each
of these cases separately.
1.	 Specifications of P as either P or ¬P fail to get lexicalised, even in cases where
such specifications are conceptually conceivable. This observation holds for
reactive and re-reactive predicates as well as for predicates which are not
specified with respect to the position of the utterance referred to. Initial pred-
icates such as claim or state are used to refer to situations in which a speaker
claims P to be true as well as to such in which S claims ¬P to be true. Insofar
120	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
as there are no special verbs meaning ‘to claim that P’ or ‘to claim that ¬P’, the
inventory of assertives contains the following gaps:
	 (5)	 a.	 


Att(S,P):		 take to be true (S,P)								 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 ¬ know (H,P)
								 ⇓
						 ∅ (claim: ‘to claim that P’)
	 (5)	 b.	 


Att(S,P): 	 take to be true (S, ¬P)							 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S, ¬P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 ¬ know (H, ¬P)
								 ⇓
						 ∅ (claim: ‘to claim that ¬P’)
	 Similarly, reactive predicates such as deny are used to refer to situations in
which a speaker expresses that he takes ¬P to be true as well as to such in
which a speaker expresses that he does not take ¬P to be true. There are no
special verbs meaning ‘to deny that P’ or ‘to deny that ¬P’. The meanings of
hypothetical predicates expressing concepts such as TO DENY THAT P and
TO DENY THAT ¬P are represented by the combinations in (6a) and (6b)
respectively:
	 (6)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 	 take to be true (S, ¬P)							



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S, ¬P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 take to be true (H,P)
			 Utterance: 	 reactive (H: true P; S: true ¬P)
								 ⇓
						 ∅ (deny: ‘to deny that P’)
	 (6)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 	 ¬take to be true (S, ¬P)							



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (¬take to be true (S, ¬P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 take to be true (H, ¬P)
			 Utterance: 	 reactive (H: true ¬P; S: not true ¬P)
								 ⇓
						 ∅ (deny: ‘to deny that ¬P’)
	 Re-reactive predicates such as insist (that sth. is the case) and maintain are not
specified either with respect to the distinction between P and ¬P. These verbs
are used to refer to situations in which a speaker claims that P (or ¬P) is true
as a reaction to H’s reactive statement that P (or ¬P) is not true, H’s statement
being a reaction to S’s initial claim that P (or ¬P) is true. Since there are no
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 121
special verbs meaning ‘to insist that P’ or ‘to insist that ¬P’, the corresponding
field of re-reactive assertives contains the following gaps:
	 (7)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 	 take to be true (S,P)								



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 take to be true (H, ¬P)
			 Utterance: 	 reactive (S: true P; H: true ¬P; S: true yet P)
									 ⇓
						 ∅ (insist: ‘to insist that P’)
	 (7)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 	 take to be true (S, ¬P)							



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S, ¬P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 ¬take to be true (H, ¬P)
			 Utterance: 	 reactive (S: true not-P; H: true ¬(¬P); S: true yet ¬P)
									 ⇓
						 ∅ (insist: ‘to insist that ¬P’)
2.	 There are no special assertives lexicalising a particular event type of P. Exist-
ing assertives fail to lexicalise the distinction between actions on the one hand
and events and states of affairs on the other. (As Harras has shown, speech act
predicates generally do not differentiate between the values ‘event’ and ‘state
of affairs’ for the attribute ‘event type of P’; such distinctions are lexicalised
only by a small number of declarative predicates. Cf. Harras 1998: 14). The
non-availability of special verbs lexicalising combinations of speaker attitudes
including specifications of P as an action vs. an event or state of affairs reveals
gaps in the inventory of assertive predicates, some of which are represented
in (8) and (9) below. The gap represented in (8a) would have to be filled by
an assertive meaning ‘to claim that somebody has performed/will perform an
action A’, while that in (8b) requires the existence of a predicate meaning ‘to
claim that something has happened/will happen’ in order to be filled. Similar-
ly, the gaps in (9a) and (9b) would have to be filled by assertives meaning ‘to
assure somebody that somebody has done something/will do something’ and
‘to assure somebody that something has happened/will happen’ respectively.
	 (8)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S,P)							



			 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 			 ¬know (H,P)
			 Event Type (P): 	 Action
									 ⇓
					 ∅ (claim: ‘to claim that sb. has done/will do sth.’)
122	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 (8)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S,P)							



			 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 			 ¬know (H,P)
			 Event Type (P): 	 Event/State of Affairs
									 ⇓
				 ∅ (claim: ‘to claim that sth. has happened/will happen’)
	 (9)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S,P)							



			 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 			 ¬take to be true (H,P)
			 Event Type (P): 	 Action
									 ⇓
				 ∅ (assure: ‘to assure that sb. has done/will do sth.’)
	 (9)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S,P)							



			 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 			 ¬take to be true (H,P)
			 Event Type (P): 	 Event/State of Affairs
									 ⇓
				 ∅ (assure: ‘to assure sb. that sth. has happened/will happen’)
3.	 Special assertives lexicalising a particular temporal reference of P are also
missing. Existing predicates do not lexicalise specifications of P as an action,
event or state of affairs which precedes, coincides with or follows the point
of time at which the speech act is performed (speech act time). Yet combi-
nations of speaker attitudes including such specifications are not logically
inconceivable: A speaker may assert the truth of something which has hap-
pened already as well as of something which will happen at some point of
time in the future. Thus, utterances such as John went to see Mary yesterday
and Tomorrow the sun will be shining all day may both be described as being
acts of claiming something to be true. The combinations in (10a) and (10b)
include specifications of P as either [+FUTURE] or [–FUTURE] (i.e. ‘past or
present’). Special verbs corresponding to these combinations are missing; the
resulting gaps would have to be filled by assertives meaning ‘to claim a past
or present action/event/state of affairs to be true’ (10a) and ‘to claim a future
action/event/state of affairs to be true’ (10b).
	(10)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S,P)							



			 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 			 ¬know (H,P)
			 Temp. Ref. (P): 	 [–FUTURE]
									 ⇓
		 ∅ (claim: ‘to claim a past/present action/event/state of affairs to be true’)
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 123
	(10)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S,P)							



			 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (take to be true (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 			 ¬know (H,P)
			 Temp. Ref. (P): 	 [+FUTURE]
									 ⇓
		 ∅ (claim: ‘to claim a future action/event/state of affairs to be true’)
While the gaps represented by the combinations in (5a)–(10b) all concern the
conceptual level of meaning, gaps may also be observed at the lexical level of
meaning. Since assertives all cluster at the same level of specificity, there are no
assertives which may be regarded as either hyperonyms or hyponyms of other
assertives. This means that there are no assertives at the levels of specificity below
and above the basic level.
On the whole, assertives are highly underspecified with respect to what is
asserted (or denied, revoked, maintained etc.). By contrast, speakers dispose of a
large variety of verbs to refer to the fact of somebody’s claiming, denying, revok-
ing, maintaining etc. that P is true (or not true). Along with the fact of a speaker’s
asserting something, assertives lexicalise different reactive stages in the interac-
tion of S and H (i.e. whether S’s claim was the first to be uttered in the interaction
of S and H, whether it was a reaction to an initial statement of H or a reaction to a
reaction of H). This observation holds for English, German and Dutch.
3.6.1.2	 Gaps in the fields of information verbs
Information verbs are representatives used to refer to situations in which a speaker
who knows P and presupposes that the hearer does not know P utters one or more
Utt(P) with the intention that the hearer know P. Typical examples of information
verbs include inform (German informieren, Dutch informeren), communicate and
impart (German mitteilen, Dutch meedelen and inlichten), tell and say (German
sagen, Dutch zeggen), etc. These verbs all lexicalise the following combination of
speaker attitudes:
	(11)	 


Att(S,P): 	 know (S,P)			 


	
		 I(S): 			 want (S (know (H,P)))
		 Pres(S): 		 ¬ know (H,P)
							 ⇓
			 inform, communicate, tell, impart, etc.
The values for the attributes of the aspects of the speaker’s propositional attitude,
the speaker’s intention and the speaker’s presuppositions may be combined in
various ways so as to cover the meaning of different types of information verbs.
However, not all combinations which are possible in principle are also lexicalised
124	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
by information verbs. The following combinations of values may be but are not
lexicalised by information verbs:
1.	 Information verbs do not lexicalise specifications of P as either P or ¬P. This
may be seen from the fact that there are no information verbs in either Eng-
lish, German or Dutch meaning ‘to inform somebody that something is the
case’ or ‘to inform somebody that something is not the case’. Existing predi-
cates are all used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs a hearer that
P as well as to such in which a speaker informs a hearer that ¬P is the case.
2.	 Information verbs do not lexicalise specifications of P as an event of a particu-
lar type (i.e. as an action, event or state of affairs). Exceptions are verbs like
confess and its synonyms admit and acknowledge (German bekennen, geste-
hen and eingestehen; Dutch bekennen and toegeven) as well as warn (German
warnen; Dutch waarschuwen). Verbs like confess are used to refer to situations
in which a speaker expresses that he wants the hearer to recognise that he is
frank and sincere about one of his/her own past actions or about his/her at-
titude towards a past action performed by a third person or a state of affairs.
This means that verbs like confess differ from other information verbs in that
they are specified with respect to the event type of P. While confess and its
synonyms admit and acknowledge are used to refer to a past action of S, warn
is used to refer to a future action of H which the speaker expects to have
negative consequences for H. Insofar as the meaning of warn also implicates
a directive component (i.e. the speaker’s wish that H do something to prevent
P from happening), warn is not a prototypical representative. (The meaning
of warn as a verb lexicalising properties of representatives as well as directives
will be discussed in Chapter 4). Apart from verbs like confess, admit, acknowl-
edge and warn, there are no information verbs lexicalising a specification of P
as an action, event or state of affairs. There are no verbs, for example, meaning
‘to inform a hearer of a state of affairs’ or ‘to announce a future action’.
3.	 Combinations of speaker attitudes including a speaker’s presupposition that
H knows P (or ¬P) are not lexicalised:
	(12)	 a.	 


Att(S,P): 	 know (S,P)			 


	
			 I(S): 			 want (S (know (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 know (H,P)
								 ⇓
								 ∅
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 125
	(12)	 b.	 


Att(S,P): 	 know (S, ¬P)			 


	
			 I(S): 			 want (S (know (H, ¬P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 know (H, ¬P)
								 ⇓
								 ∅
	 On the one hand, combinations like those in (12a) and (12b) may be argued
to represent patterns of behaviour deviating from rational communicative be-
haviour. The combinations in (12a) and (12b) represent speech acts whereby
a speaker informs a hearer of something which he presupposes to be known
by that hearer. The performance of such speech acts would involve the simul-
taneous violation of three of Grice’s conversational maxims, i.e. the maxims of
quantity, relation and modality (cf. Grice 1975). To the extent that the speech
acts represented by the combinations in (12a) and (12b) deviate from estab-
lished patterns of communicative practice, these combinations may not be
lexicalised in principle. Because of that, the corresponding gaps may be con-
sidered to be matrix products rather than genuine lexical gaps. On the other
hand, the combinations in (12a) and (12b) may be taken to represent a speech
act performed by a speaker who wants to make sure that he and the hearer
share the same amount of knowledge with respect to P.
4.	 Though information verbs are not specified with respect to the event type
of P (action vs. event vs. state of affairs), they often lexicalise other types of
specifications of P. Thus, verbs like German zutragen and hinterbringen, which
lack exact counterparts in English and Dutch, lexicalise a specification of P as
something which is not meant to be known by H, verbs like betray and divulge
(German enthüllen and verraten; Dutch onthullen and verraden) lexicalise a
specification of P as a piece of secret information, such like confide (German
anvertrauen; Dutch toevertrouwen) express a specification of P as something
meant to be known by nobody but H etc. While such specifications are part
of the meaning of information verbs used to refer to past events, information
verbs used to refer to future events do not lexicalise any such specifications of
P. There are no verbs meaning ‘to announce something which is meant to be
known by nobody but H’, ‘to announce a secret’ etc. As I have pointed out in
Chapter 2, information verbs with future reference do not lexicalise specifica-
tions of P as an event with positive or negative consequences either. While
German unken may be used to refer to situations in which a speaker predicts
an event which he/she considers to have negative consequences, German lacks
positive counterparts of unken. Special verbs meaning ‘to predict a joyful
event’ or ‘to predict harm’ are lacking altogether in English and in Dutch. On
the whole, information verbs lexicalising past reference of P are more highly
126	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
specified with respect to the kind of information conveyed than information
verbs used to refer to future events.
5.	 While information verbs lexicalise many different specifications of P, they do
not lexicalise any type of specification which is possible in principle. Examples
of specifications of P which are possible in principle but are not lexicalised
by information verbs have already been mentioned in my discussion of Fell-
baum’s account of lexical gaps (cf. Section 3.3.5). The examples in Section
3.3.5 include the lack of lexical items for concepts such as TO INFORM THE
PRESS and GIVE SOMEBODY A PIECE OF ORAL/WRITTEN INFORMA-
TION. I have also mentioned in Section 3.3.5 that, while these concepts are
lexicalised by collocations in German and in Dutch, they are not lexicalised
at all in English. Verbs expressing these concepts are missing not only in Eng-
lish, but also in German and Dutch.
6.	 Information verbs do not lexicalise a specific mode of saying. Yet situations
where a speaker informs a hearer of something in a specific way, say urgently
or tactfully, are not hard to imagine. It is therefore not clear why there are
no special verbs meaning ‘to urgently inform somebody of something’ or ‘to
tactfully inform somebody of something’.
7.	 Verbs like lie are used to refer to situations in which a speaker who does not
take P to be true utters one or more Utt(P) with the intention that H recognise
that he takes P to be true. However, there are no verbs to refer to situations
in which a speaker who takes P to be true utters one or more Utt(P) with the
intention that H recognise that he takes P to be true. The corresponding gaps
would have to be filled by (non-existent) antonyms of lie.
The observations concerning the distribution of gaps in the fields of representa-
tives (i.e. assertives and information verbs) may be summarised as follows:
–	 Information verbs lexicalise many different specifications of P, especially such
which concern a message’s distribution. Thus, verbs like confide lexicalise a
specification of P as something which is meant to be known by nobody but H,
such like divulge and disclose express a specification of P as secret information,
and verbs like spread and distribute are used to refer to situations in which a
speaker makes something publicly known. Assertives do not lexicalise any
specifications of P, but they do lexicalise different stages in the interaction of S
and H (e.g. whether S’s utterance was the first to be uttered in the interaction
of S and H, whether it was a reaction to an initial utterance of H or whether it
was a reaction to a reaction of H). The abundance of special assertives lexical-
ising different stages in the interaction of S and H reflects the structure of the
process of argumentation. The truth of a proposition is very much a matter of
negotiation among speakers. Speakers may discuss whether a proposition is
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 127
true, not true, likely to be true, etc. It is therefore not surprising that there are
many different verbs to refer to speech acts whereby speakers assert the truth
of a proposition, challenge another speaker’s assertion that something is true,
etc. By contrast, knowing P or not knowing P is not a matter of negotiation
among speakers. A speaker either knows or does not know P. The fact that a
speaker knows P (or does not know P) is not open to discussion in the way a
speaker’s assertion that something is true is. Consequently, information verbs
lexicalising different stages in the interaction of S and H are lacking. Since
a speaker’s knowing P or not knowing P is not a matter of discussion, there
simply is no need for information verbs lexicalising different stages in the
interaction of S and H. On the whole, the distribution of gaps in the fields of
assertives and information verbs indicates which aspects of the correspond-
ing acts seem to be relevant to speakers: While the type of information con-
veyed (esp. its distribution) seems to be highly relevant to acts of informing
somebody of something, the content of a speaker’s assertion seems to be less
important than the very fact of somebody’s asserting something, challenging
somebody else’s assertion etc. This means that the structure of argumentation
is highly differentiated in the lexicon.
–	 With the exception of German unken, representatives used to refer to future
events do not lexicalise specifications of P. This may be due to the fact that
we do not know nearly as much about future events as about such which
precede or coincide with the time at which S’s speech act is performed. It
is possible, though, that there are culture-specific reasons for the scarcity of
English, German and Dutch representatives used for future reference. Socie­
ties in which magic plays a significant role may well have developed lexicons
which are highly differentiated with respect to the possibilities of future refer-
ence. This means that the scarcity of special representatives with future refer-
ence in English, German and Dutch is likely to be a consequence of the fact
that future events themselves are not considered to be of much significance in
English-, German- and Dutch-speaking communities.
–	 While the distribution of gaps in the fields of assertives and information verbs
largely shows the same patterns in English, German and Dutch, these lan-
guages occasionally differ with respect to concepts which are and such which
are not lexicalised. There are no one-word English or Dutch equivalents, for
example, of German zutragen and hinterbringen. Though the English idiom to
tell tales (about someone) and the Dutch verb overbrieven both have meanings
similar to that of German zutragen and hinterbringen, the use of to tell tales
and overbrieven is restricted to situations in which a child informs someone
(mostly an adult) of some kind of mischief done by another child. This means
that to tell tales and overbrieven are equivalents of German petzen rather than
128	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
of zutragen and hinterbringen. The last two are much less restricted than pet-
zen with respect to the situations they may be sued to refer to. Both verbs
mean ‘to inform somebody of something which is not meant to be known by
that person’ and are used to refer to situations which are characterised by the
following combinations of speaker attitudes:
	(13)	



Att(S,P): 	 know (S,P)						



		 I(S): 			 want (S (know (H,P)))
		 Pres(S): 		 1. ¬know (H,P)
		 		 2. P is not meant to be known by H
		 		 3. to the interest of H: knowing P
								 ⇓
		 zutragen, hinterbringen (English: ∅ (to tell tales), Dutch: ∅ (overbrieven))
The absence of English and Dutch equivalents of German zutragen and hinter­
bringen constitutes a gap in the inventory of English and Dutch information
verbs.
Gaps obviously also occur in the lexicon of German. One such gap becomes
apparent from the lack of German equivalents of the English verb leak, which
means ‘to give secret information to the public’. The situations referred to by leak
combine characteristics of the situations referred to by verbs like disclose as well as
properties of the situations referred to by verbs like distribute and spread, cf. (14):
	(14)	



Att(S,P): 	 know (S,P)									



		 I(S): 			 want (S (know (H,P)))
		 Pres(S): 		 1. ¬know (H,P)
		 		 2. P is considered to be a secret
		 Utterance: 	 addressed to several hearers/the general public
								 ⇓
					 leak (German: ?; Dutch: ?)
Though the situations represented in (14) may be referred to in German and Dutch
by multiword expressions such as etwas durchsickern lassen (German) and iets
laten uitlekken (Dutch), there are no German or Dutch speech act verbs to refer
to the situation represented by the combination of values in (14). The multiword
expressions etwas durschsickern lassen and iets laten uitlekken may therefore be
considered to fill gaps in the inventory of German and Dutch speech act verbs.
3.6.2	 Gaps in the fields of directives
Directives are speech act verbs used to refer to the following types of situations:
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 129
1.	 situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants a hearer to do some-
thing
2.	 situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants a hearer not to do
something
3.	 situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she does not want a hearer not
to do something
4.	 situations in which a speaker asks a question/questions
Since each of these situations may be referred to by special directives, there are
also four major types of directives. Examples of directives used to refer to situa-
tions 1–4 include:
1.	 request, require, ask (somebody to do something), beg, beseech, ... (German er-
suchen, fordern, auffordern, bitten, flehen, ...; Dutch verzoeken, vorderen, eisen,
verlangen, vragen, smeken, ... )
2.	 forbid, prohibit, ... (German verbieten, untersagen, ...; Dutch verbieden, ...)
3.	 allow, grant, .... (German erlauben, ...; Dutch toestaan, ...)
4.	 ask, question, inquire, interrogate, ... (German fragen, befragen, sich erkundigen,
verhören, ...; Dutch vragen, ondervragen, inlichtingen inwinnen, verhoren, ...)
The verbs of types 1–3 lexicalise the propositional attitude of a speaker who wants
or does not want P as well as a speaker’s intention that H do P or that H abstain
from doing P. For example, verbs of type 1 (require, request, beg, beseech, etc.) all
lexicalise the following combination of speaker attitudes:
	(15)	 


Att(S,P): 		 want (S,P)			 


		 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
							 ⇓
				 request, require, beg, beseech, etc.
Verbs like ask, question etc. (type 4) lexicalise a speaker’s propositional attitude
that S takes to be true that P’ may be complemented by P as well as a speaker’s in-
tention that H do R, i.e. that the hearer give a competent answer to S’s question:
	(16)	 


Att(S,P): 		 take to be true (S (P’ may be complemented by P))	 


		 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
							 ⇓
						 ask, question, ...
Some combinations of values which are possible in principle turn out not to get
lexicalised by directive predicates. Examples of combinations which fail to get
lexicalised by directives are listed in 1–2 below.
130	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
1.	 There are no special directives which lexicalise a specification of P as either
P or ¬P. Directives which are not specified with respect to the position of the
utterance referred to do not lexicalise the distinction between P and ¬P. Exist-
ing predicates (require, request, ask, beg, etc.) are used for both cases. Verbs
like forbid or prohibit may not be used to fill the relevant gaps: These verbs
lexicalise a speaker’s presupposition that H may not be expected not to do P,
while such like ask and request lexicalise a speaker’s presupposition that P is
not to be expected.
	 Specifications of P as either P or ¬P are not lexicalised by re-reactive direc-
tives either. Verbs like insist (that somebody do something) are used to refer to
situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants a hearer to do P (or
¬P) as a reaction to H’s refusal to comply with S’s initial request that he do P
(or ¬P). There are no special re-reactive verbs meaning ‘to insist on doing P’
or ‘to insist on doing ¬P’.
	 Reactive directives with the meaning ‘request’ which lexicalise a distinction
between P and ¬P are in fact not possible in principle. Such predicates would
lexicalise combinations of values such as the following:
	(17)	 a.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S,P)			 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
			 Utterance: 	 Reactive
								 ⇓
								 ?
	(17)	 b.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S, ¬P)			 


			 I(S):			 want (S (not do (H,P)))
			 Utterance: 	 Reactive
								 ⇓
								 ?
	 Situations matching these descriptions are hard to imagine. Verbs like allow,
which may appear to fit the description in (17a), do not express the appropri-
ate speaker attitudes. allow lexicalises the propositional attitude of a speaker
who does not want ¬P as well as a speaker’s intention that the hearer recog-
nise that he does not want H not to do P. Hence, allow may not be used to
refer to situations which match the description in (17a). Though verbs like
forbid and prohibit do lexicalise the speaker attitudes represented in (17b),
these verbs additionally express a speaker’s presupposition that H may not
be expected not to do P. Since this presupposition is not part of the situation
represented in (17b), forbid and prohibit do not fill the gap resulting from the
absence of special reactive directives matching the combination in (17b). If
the combinations in (17a) and (17b) do not represent acts of allowing some-
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 131
one to do something he/she has asked for or acts of prohibiting someone to
do something he/she has asked to do, it is hard to imagine situations which do
match these descriptions. Situations like those represented by the combina-
tions in (17a) and (17b) seem to be logically inconceivable. If this is true, this
may be the reason why reactive directives do not exist: combinations of values
which do not correspond to concepts may not be lexicalised in principle.
2.	 Directives such as request, require, beg, etc. lexicalise a speaker’s presupposi-
tion that P is in his own interest (cf. (18a) below). The speaker’s assumption
that P is in his own interest is implicit in the speaker’s propositional attitude
of wanting P: It would not make sense for a speaker to want something which
is not in his or her own interest.
	(18)	 a.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S,P)			 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of S (P)
								 ⇓
					 request, require, ask, beg, beseech, etc.
	 Combinations of a speaker’s propositional attitude of wanting P, a speaker’s
intention that H do P and values other than ‘in the interest of S: P’ for the
speaker’s presuppositions about the interests of S and H are not lexicalised.
The combination in (18b), for example, represents the speech act of a speaker
telling a hearer to do something which he/she presupposes not to be in his/
her own interest.
	(18)	 b.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S,P)			 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 ¬ in the interest of S (P)
								 ⇓
								 ∅
	 Since the performance of such a speech act would certainly be evaluated as
being masochistic (i.e. as being deviant from patterns of common human
practice), the resulting gap may well be a matrix gap rather than a genuine
lexical gap. By contrast, the combination in (18c) represents a speech act
which is perfectly compatible with patterns of common human practice:
	(18)	 c.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S,P)			 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (P)
								 ⇓
								 ∅
132	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 The combination describes a situation in which a speaker tells a hearer to do
something which he/she considers to be in the interest of H. Verbs like allow,
instruct and recommend, which do lexicalise the speaker’s presupposition that
P is in the interest of H, do not really match this combination. As I have argued
above, allow lexicalises the propositional attitude of a speaker who does not
want ¬P rather than the propositional attitude of a speaker who wants P (as
in (18c)). Verbs like instruct do not match the combination in (18c), because
they lexicalise speaker attitudes altogether different from those represented
in (18c). Particularly, they lexicalise a speaker’s propositional attitude that he
knows the correct way of doing P as well as the speaker’s intention that H do P
correctly. Verbs like recommend and advice appropriately characterise the situ-
ation represented in (18c) only if the latter is expanded to include a speaker’s
presupposition that H needs advice on a particular subject. A speaker assum-
ing that H needs advice also has the propositional attitude that he or she con-
siders P to be in the interest of H as well as the intention that H recognise that.
Here again, these attitudes are different from those represented in (18c).
	 Finally, a combination of the propositional attitude and the speaker inten-
tion lexicalised by verbs like ask, request, require etc. with the speaker’s pre-
supposition that P is not in the interest of H is lexicalised only by German
zumuten. This verb is used not only as a speech act verb but also as a verb
referring to a mental state. In Dutch, the combination in (18d) below is lexi-
calised only by an idiom (een last op iemands schouders leggen). As I have
shown in Chapter 2, verbs like German zumuten are exceptions from a cross-
linguistic perspective.
	(18)	 d.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S,P)				 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 ¬ in the interest of H (P)
								 ⇓
			 ∅ (German zumuten; Dutch een last op iemands schouders leggen)
	 Verbs like forbid and prohibit do not lexicalise the speaker attitudes repre-
sented in (18a) but rather those in (19a):
	(19)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S, ¬P)				



			 I(S): 			 want (S (not do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 1. want (do (H,P)
			 		 2. ¬ in the interest of S (P)
									 ⇓
							 forbid, prohibit
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 133
	 Combinations of the speaker attitudes lexicalised by forbid and prohibit with
values other than ‘¬ in the interest of S (P)’ for the attribute of the speaker’s
presuppositions about the interests of S and H are not lexicalised. The combi-
nation of values in (19b), for example, represents the speech act of a speaker
who tells a hearer not to do something which is in his/her own interest:
	(19)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S, not-P)			



			 I(S): 			 want (S (not do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 1. want (do (H,P)
			 		 2. in the interest of S (P)
									 ⇓
									 ∅
	 (19b) would describe a situation where a speaker tells a hearer that he/she
renounces a favour which H has offered to do him/her. A speaker performing
a speech act of this kind is likely to be regarded as being exceedingly generous
or even as behaving masochistically.
	 The combination in (19c) includes a speaker’s presupposition that P is in the
interest of H:
	(19)	 c.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S, ¬P)				



			 I(S): 			 want (S (not do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 1. want (do (H,P)
			 		 2. in the interest of H (P)
									 ⇓
							 ?forbid, ?prohibit
	 Such a combination seems to be identical with that in (19a): S’s presupposi-
tion that P is to the interest of H seems to be implicit in S’s presupposition that
H wants to do P. (It would be irrational for H to want to do something which
is not in his or her own interest.)
	 Finally, the combination in (19d), which includes a speaker’s presupposition
that P is not in the interest of H, describes an act whereby a speaker emphati-
cally advises a hearer not to do P:
	(19)	 d.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S, ¬P)				



			 I(S): 			 want (S (not do (H,P)))
			 Pres(S): 		 1. want (do (H,P)
			 		 2. ¬in the interest of H (P)
									 ⇓
									 ∅
The observations concerning the distribution of lexical gaps in the fields of direc-
tive predicates have shown that directives lexicalise a certain balance of costs and
134	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
benefits. Verbs like request, demand, ask (to do something), etc. lexicalise the costs
accruing to H from his doing P as well as the benefits arising to S from H’s doing
P. Verbs used to refer to situations where a speaker expresses that he does not want
H to do P (forbid, prohibit, etc. ...) lexicalise H’s costs accruing from his not doing
something he/she wants to do as well as the benefits resulting to S from H’s not
doing P. Other directives are used to refer to situations involving costs and ben-
efits only for H. Examples are German abraten and Dutch afraden (both meaning
‘to advise somebody not to do something’) as well as allow (German erlauben,
Dutch toestaan). German abraten and Dutch afraden lexicalise the costs accruing
to H from his/her not doing P as well as the benefits resulting to H from his/her
not doing P. The situations referred to by allow involve costs arising to H from his
or her doing P as well as benefits resulting to H from being able to do what he/she
wanted to do.
The regularities concerning the distribution of gaps in the fields of directive
predicates may be summarised as follows: Only concepts of speech acts involving
costs as well as benefits (either for S and H or only for H) get lexicalised. Situa-
tions involving only costs may not be referred to by directive predicates. The only
exception is German zumuten, which is also an exception from a cross-linguistic
point of view. Examples of situations involving only costs are those represented
in (18b), (18d) and (19d). Directives are also lacking where these would be used
to refer to sadistic, masochistic or egoistic patterns of behaviour, i.e. patterns of
behaviour which deviate from common communicative practice.
3.6.3	 Gaps in the fields of commissives
Commissives are verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses
that he/she wants to carry out some kind of action. Examples of commissives in-
clude promise (German versprechen, Dutch beloven), refuse (German verweigern,
Dutch weigeren), vow (German geloben), guarantee (German garantieren, Dutch
garanderen), threaten (German drohen, Dutch dreigen), etc. Commissives lexical-
ise a speaker’s propositional attitude that he/she wants to do something (P) as well
as his/her intention that H recognise this:
	(20)	 


Att(S,P): 		 want (S (do, P))							 


		 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (do, P))))))
							 ⇓
			 promise, vow, guarantee, threaten, etc.
Not every combination of values for the aspects of the speaker’s propositional at-
titude, the speaker’s intention and the speaker’s presuppositions which is possible
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 135
in principle is also lexicalised by commissives. Cases of gaps in the fields of com-
missives include the following:
1.	 Commissives do not lexicalise specifications of P as either ‘to do something’
or ‘not to do something’. This is true of re-reactive commissives as well as such
which are not specified with respect to the position of the utterance referred
to. The latter (e.g. promise) are used to refer to situations in which a speaker
tells a hearer that he intends to do something (P) as well as to such in which a
speaker tells a hearer that he intends not to do P. This means that there are no
special commissives meaning ‘to promise to do P’ or ‘to promise not to do P’:
	(21)	 a.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S (do, P))								 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (do, P))))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H: P
								 ⇓
					 ∅ (promise: ‘to promise that P’)
	(21)	 b.	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S (not do, P))							 


			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (not do, P))))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H: not P
								 ⇓
				 ∅ (promise: ‘to promise not to do P’)
	 Re-reactive predicates such as insist (on doing something) do not lexicalise
specifications of P as ‘to do something’ or ‘not to do something’. There are no
special verbs meaning ‘to insist on doing P’ or ‘to insist on not doing P’:
	(22)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S (do, P))							



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (do, P))))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (P)
			 Utterance: 	 re-reactive
								 ⇓
					 ∅ (insist (on doing sth.))
	(22)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S (not do, P))						



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (not do, P))))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (¬P)
			 Utterance: 	 re-reactive
								 ⇓
					 ∅ (insist (on not doing sth.))
	 Though specifications of P as ‘to do something’ or ‘not to do something’ are
not lexicalised by either re-reactive commissives or such which are not speci-
136	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
fied with respect to the position of the utterance referred to, reactive com-
missives do lexicalise this distinction. A positive reaction of a speaker to a
request to do something may be referred to by special verbs such as agree (to
do something) and consent (to do something) (German zusagen and einwil-
ligen, Dutch toezeggen and inwilligen). Negative reactions are also referred to
by special verbs such as refuse (to do something) and decline (to do something)
(German verweigern and zurückweisen, Dutch weigeren and afwijzen):
	(23)	 a.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S (do, P))							



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (do, P))))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (P)
			 Utterance: 	 reactive
								 ⇓
							 agree, consent
	(23)	 b.	



Att(S,P): 	 want (S (not do, P))						



			 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (not do, P))))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (¬P)
			 Utterance: 	 reactive
								 ⇓
						 	 refuse, decline
	 Since re-reactive commissives like insist and such like promise do not differ-
entiate between a specification of P as ‘to do something’ and a specification of
P as ‘not to do something’, these verb classes contain gaps whereas the class of
reactive predicates does not.
2.	 While commissives typically lexicalise a speaker’s presupposition that P (or
¬P) is to the interest of H, other values for the attribute of the interests of S
and H do not get lexicalised. Thus, the speaker attitudes represented in (24)
get lexicalised only when they are combined with a speaker’s presupposition
that P is in the interest of H. This particular presupposition is represented in
(24a); the other possibilities of P being in the interest or not in the interest of
S or H are listed in (24b)–(24d):
	(24)	 


Att(S,P): 		 want (S (do, P))							 


		 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (do, P))))))
							 ⇓
				 promise, vow, pledge, guarantee, etc.
	(24)	 a.	 Pres(S): in the interest of H (P) → promise, vow, pledge, guarantee, etc.
		 b.	 Pres(S): ¬ in the interest of H (P) → ∅
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 137
	 A combination of the speaker attitudes in (24) with the speaker’s presuppo-
sition that P is not in the interest of H would have to be lexicalised by what
Baumgärtner called “sadistic” predicates (cf. Section 2.2.2.3). The lack of such
predicates is likely to be due to the irrationality of the corresponding pattern
of behaviour. A person intending to do something which he presupposes not
to be in the interest of somebody else is not likely to express his/her intention.
By expressing his/her intention to harm someone, a speaker would only be-
tray his/her intention and thereby make him- or herself unable to perform the
intended action. The irrationality of betraying one’s intention to harm some-
one is likely to be the reason why there are no lexical items to refer to this
pattern of behaviour. To the extent that the behaviour of a speaker expressing
his/her intention to do something which is not in the interest of somebody
else is irrational (i.e. not in accordance with patterns of common human
practice), the lack of a lexical item to refer to this pattern of behaviour may
be an instance of a matrix gap. (Though threaten also lexicalises a speaker’s
intention to do something which is not in the interest of H, threaten is used to
refer to situations in which a speaker expresses his intention to perform the
intended action only if the hearer is not willing to fulfil a condition C. Since
the combination in (24) does not include a reference to any such condition,
threaten does not match the combination of the speaker attitudes in (24) or
the speaker’s presupposition that P is not in the interest of H.)
	(24)	 c.	 Pres(S): in the interest of S (P) → ∅
	 A combination of the speaker attitudes represented in (24) and the spea­ker’s
presupposition that P is in his/her own interest are not lexicalised. Such
combinations would have to be lexicalised by “egoistic” predicates. The rea-
son why such predicates do not exist may be that the behaviour of a speaker
expressing his/her intention to do something to his/her own benefit is con-
sidered to go beyond what is esteemed to be an appropriate distance between
speaker and hearer. The corresponding gap may therefore be considered to
be a matrix gap.
	(24)	 d.	 ¬ in the interest of S (P) → ∅
	 Situations where a speaker expresses that he intends to do something which is
not in his or her own interest would have to be referred to by what Baumgärt-
ner called “masochistic” predicates (cf. Section 2.2.2.3). As I have pointed out
before, illocutionary counterparts of expressions such as sacrifice oneself do
not exist.
138	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 The combination in (25) below differs from that in (24) in that it represents
the attitude of a speaker telling a hearer that he/she will not do P. The speaker
attitudes represented in (25) may also be combined with different values for
the attributes of the interests of S and H. (25a)–(25b) represent the possibili-
ties of P being in the interest (or not in the interest) of S or H:
	(25)	 


Att(S,P): 	 want (S (not do, P))							 


		 I(S): 		 want (S (recognise (H (want (S (not do, P))))))
		 a.	 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (P) → ∅
	 The combination of the speaker attitudes represented in (25) and the speaker’s
presupposition that P is in the interest of H describes the speech act performed
by a speaker telling a hearer that he will not do P although he considers P to
be in the interest of the hearer. Though a speaker performing such a speech
act may be described as being disobedient, there are no special illocutionary
verbs to refer to speech acts whereby a speaker expresses his/her disobedi-
ence. Only reactive predicates (e.g. refuse, decline) lexicalise a combination of
a speaker’s intention not to do P and a speaker’s presupposition that P is in the
interest of H.
	(25)	 b.	 Pres(S): 		 ¬ in the interest of H (P) → ∅
	 Combinations of a speaker’s intention not to do P and a speaker’s presup-
position that P is not in the interest of H are lexicalised only by verbs such as
renounce (German verzichten, Dutch afstand van iets doen). However, verbs
like renounce lexicalise a speaker’s presupposition that P is not in the interest
of H as well as a speaker’s presupposition that P is in the interest of S. This
means that verbs like renounce do not match the combination of the speaker
attitudes in (25) and the presupposition in (25b).
	(25)	 c.	 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of S (P) → ∅
	 There are no commissives lexicalising a combination of a speaker’s inten-
tion not to do P and a speaker’s presupposition that P is in his own interest.
Though verbs like renounce do lexicalise a speaker’s presupposition that P is
in his own interest, these verbs also express a speaker’s presupposition that
P is not in the interest of H. Since verbs like renounce lexicalise a complex
presupposition which is not part of the meaning of verbs like promise, they
do not match a combination of the speaker attitudes in (25) and the presup-
position in (25c).
	(25)	 d.	 Pres(S): 		 ¬ in the interest of S (P)
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 139
	 There are no special commissives lexicalising a combination of the speaker
attitudes in (25) and the speaker’s presupposition in (25d). Such a combina-
tion would represent the behaviour of a speaker telling a hearer that he/she
will not do P, because he/she considers P not to be in his/her own interest. The
reason why there are no special commissives to refer to such speech acts may
well be that this pattern of behaviour is self-evident: People normally do not
do what they expect to have negative consequences for themselves. The cor-
responding behaviour may in fact be so much self-evident that people do not
even talk about it. For this reason, speakers do not need special illocutionary
verbs to refer to it.
3.	 Commissives fail to lexicalise different specifications of P which do get lexi-
calised by directives. Examples of specifications of P which are not but could
be lexicalised by commissives include:
	 –	 Specifications of P as a place where S intends to go to/which S intends to
	 leave. Such Specifications are part of the meaning of directives such as
	 turn away, call forward, call away, expel, etc.
	 –	 Specifications of P as S’s visiting H, a joint activity of S and H, S and H’s
	 joint participation in an event (a concert, a film etc.). Specifications of
	 this type are lexicalised by directive predicates like invite.
	 –	 Specifications of P as something which is considered to be of high moral
	 value or in the interest of the general public. Directives lexicalising such
	 specifications of P are call upon somebody (to do something) and appeal.
	 –	 Specifications of P as something which belongs to S’s area of responsibil-
	 ity. Specifications of P as something which is part of H’s area of responsi-
	 bility are lexicalised by directives such as order, charge, entrust, etc.
	 There is no obvious reason why there are no commissives lexicalising S’s in-
tention to go to or leave a specific place, to visit H, to do something which is
regarded as being of high moral value, to carry out an order etc.
Comparing the distribution of gaps in the fields of directives and commissives,
we may conclude that there are many more directives than commissives. Exist-
ing directives are also more highly specified than commissives with respect to
the concepts they lexicalise. However, directives and commissives also show an
interesting parallelism with respect to the lexicalisation of the speaker’s presup-
positions about the interests of S and H. Like directives, existing commissives
prove to lexicalise a balance between costs and benefits of speakers and hearers.
Specifically, they lexicalise the costs accruing to S from his/her doing (or not do-
ing) P as well as the benefits arising to H from S’s doing (or not doing) P. The lack
of special commissives for cases (24b)–(25d) suggests that speech acts involving
140	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
only costs (either to S and H or only to S) do not get lexicalised. To the extent that
threaten lexicalises only costs (to S as well as to H), this verb may appear to be an
exception to the generalisation mentioned above. However, threaten lexicalises
S’s intention to do something which is not in the interest of H only if H fails to
do what S requires him/her to do. Other commissives do not lexicalise any such
condition. Since threaten lexicalises components different from those which are
part of other commissives, it is not a real exception to the general observation that
commissives lexicalise S’s costs of doing P as well as the benefits arising to H from
S’s doing P. This lexicalisation tendency mirrors that which has turned out to be
relevant to the lexicalisation of directive speech acts: Directives lexicalise the costs
accruing to H from his doing (or not doing) P as well as the benefits arising to S
(or H) from H’s doing (or not doing) P. Commissives lexicalise S’s costs of doing
(or not doing) P as well as the benefits resulting to H from S’s doing (or not doing)
P. The relevance of costs and benefits to the lexicalisation of concepts of directive
and commissive speech acts is captured by the following lexicalisation principle:
		 Principle of Costs and Benefits
		 Concepts of directive and commissive speech acts get lexicalised only when
they involve a balance of costs and benefits for S and H.
The principle of Costs and Benefits governs the lexicalisation of concepts of direc-
tive and commisssive speech acts in English, German and Dutch.
While the distribution of gaps in the fields of directives and commissives
shows the same overall pattern in English, German and Dutch, not every concept
which gets lexicalised in one of these languages gets lexicalised in each of the
other languages as well. An example is the concept expressed by German abraten
and Dutch afraden. These two verbs are used to refer to situations in which a
speaker who expects H to do P tells H that he/she considers P not to be in the
interest of H. This situation may only be referred to in English by expressions such
as advise somebody not to do something or advise somebody against something,
which are both free combinations of words. There is no verb such as *disadvise in
English to express the concept lexicalised by German abraten and Dutch afraden.
dissuade does not fill the gap resulting from the absence of a verb like *disadvise:
Though dissuade lexicalises a speaker’s presupposition that H may be expected
to do P, it does not lexicalise the speaker’s opinion that P is not in the interest of
H. Additionally, dissuade is a perlocutionary verb, i.e. it lexicalises a result (‘H
abstains from doing P’) which is not part of the meaning of German abraten or
Dutch afraden. This means that dissuade is an antonym of persuade rather than of
advise or recommend.
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 141
3.6.4	 Gaps in the fields of expressives
Expressives are verbs lexicalising a speaker’s judgement of P, a speaker’s positive
or negative evaluation of P or a speaker’s emotive attitude (joy, anger or sorrow)
towards P. Examples of verbs expressing a speaker’s judgement of P are judge, esti-
mate, classify, evaluate and grade (German (be)urteilen, einschätzen, klassifizieren,
(be)werten and einordnen; Dutch (be)oordelen, schatten, classificeren, evalueren
and rangschikken). Verbs like praise, extol and enthuse (German loben, preisen and
schwärmen; Dutch loven, prijzen and dwepen) express a speaker’s positive evalu-
ation of P, while such like criticise, admonish and grumble (German kritisieren,
tadeln and meckern; Dutch kritiseren, berispen and mopperen) lexicalise a speaker’s
negative evaluation of P. Some verbs expressing a positive or negative evaluation
by a resource situation speaker (SRS) additionally lexicalise an evaluation by a dis-
course situation speaker (SDS). I have already mentioned boast and its synonyms
brag and show off as examples of verbs lexicalising two different and even oppo-
site evaluations. It is important to bear in mind that these verbs are used to refer
to patterns of behaviour which are evaluated negatively (namely as deviations of
social norms), even though they express a positive evaluation by a resource situ-
ation speaker. Examples of verbs lexicalising a speaker’s emotive attitude towards
P are rejoice (German jubeln, Dutch juichen), scold (German schimpfen; Dutch
schelden) and complain (German (be)klagen, Dutch klagen). Gaps occurring in
each of these three major lexical fields will be listed and discussed separately.
3.6.4.1	 Gaps in the fields of judgement verbs
There are no special verbs either in English, German or Dutch lexicalising a
speaker’s judgement of an action, event or state of affairs. Existing predicates ex-
pressing a speaker’s judgement of P are not specified with respect to the event type
of P (i.e. action vs. event or state of affairs). There are no special verbs meaning
‘to express one ‘s judgement of an action’ or ‘to express one judgement of an event
or state of affairs’.
3.6.4.2	 Gaps in the fields of verbs expressing a positive or negative evaluation
There are many more verbs expressing negative evaluations than such which lexi-
calise positive ones. This may be seen from the following observations: Firstly,
there are many more paradigms containing verbs expressing negative evaluations
than such comprising verbs which lexicalise positive evaluations. Secondly, the
paradigms constituted by verbs lexicalising negative evaluations are more diver-
sified than those containing verbs which lexicalise positive evaluations. Conse-
quently, the former contain a larger number of verbs than the latter.
142	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
There are only three lexical fields containing expressives which lexicalise a
positive evaluation by a resource situation speaker and do not at the same time
lexicalise a negative evaluation by a discourse situation speaker. Verbs represent-
ing each of these three classes are welcome, (German begrüßen, Dutch begroeten),
enthuse (German schwärmen, Dutch dwepen) and commend (German loben,
Dutch loven). Verbs like commend differ from such like welcome in that they are
used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses a positive evaluation of a
past action by a hearer or third person. Verbs like welcome are not specified with
respect to the event type lexicalised. Rather, these verbs are used to describe the
speech act of a speaker who expresses a positive evaluation of a past action, event
or state of affairs. Verbs like enthuse or its synonym rave (German schwärmen,
Dutch dwepen) differ from such like commend as well as from such like welcome
in that they are used to refer to situations in which a speaker rapturously expresses
his positive evaluation of a past action, event or state of affairs. A specification
of the mode of speaking as “rapturous” is not lexicalised by verbs like commend
nor by such like welcome. Figure 5 presents an overview of the different types of
expressives which lexicalise a positive evaluation by a resource situation speaker
but do not at the same time lexicalise a negative evaluation by a discourse situa-
tion speaker.
While there are only three paradigms containing verbs expressing positive
evaluations, there are five lexical fields comprising expressives which lexicalise
a negative evaluation by a resource situation speaker but do not express an ad-
ditional evaluation by a discourse situation speaker. Examples of verbs belonging
to each of these lexical fields are blame (German tadeln, Dutch berispen), reproach
(German vorwerfen, Dutch verwijten), grumble (German meckern, Dutch mop-
peren), discredit (German diskreditieren, Dutch belasteren) and mock (German
spotten, Dutch spotten). Since these verbs are all used to refer to situations in
which a speaker expresses that he/she evaluates some past P negatively, they all
lexicalise the following combination of speaker attitudes (verbs like mock lexi-
calise a specification of S’s negative evaluation as “ridiculous”):
	(26)	



Att(S,P): 		 consider bad (S,P)						



		 I(S): 				 want (S (recognise (H (consider bad (S,P)))))
		 Pres(S): 			 P is the case
		 Temp. Ref. (P): 	 [–FUTURE]
Verbs like blame and such like reproach are both used to refer to situations in
which a speaker expresses his/her negative evaluation of a past action, but blame
lexicalises the value ‘hearer or third person’ for the attribute of the agent of P,
while reproach lexicalises the value ‘hearer only’ for that attribute. Verbs such
as reproach also differ from such like blame in that they lexicalise a specification
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 143
of the mode of speaking as “emphatically”, a specification which is not part of
the meaning of verbs like blame. As opposed to verbs like blame and such like
reproach, expressives such as grumble do not lexicalise a specification of P as an
event of a particular type (i.e. as an action vs. an event or state of affairs). Thus,
grumble is not specified with respect to the attribute of the event type of P. Verbs
like discredit and its synonyms defame and discriminate are used to refer to situa-
tions in which a speaker expresses his negative evaluation of a third person’s past
action or quality with the intention of diminishing that person’s social prestige.
This means that discredit, defame and discriminate lexicalise a result which is not
part of the meaning of other types of expressives lexicalising a negative evalu-
ation by a resource situation speaker. Finally, verbs such as mock lexicalise the
propositional attitude of a speaker who considers P to be ridiculous as well as
that speaker’s intention that H recognise this. Thus, mock and other synonymous
verbs lexicalise a special kind of negative evaluation. Figure 6 shows the similari-
Figure 5.  Expressives lexicalising a positive evaluation by SRS
144	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
ties and differences among the different types of expressives lexicalising a negative
evaluation by a resource situation speaker.
A comparison of the inventory of expressives lexicalising negative evaluations
and that of verbs expressing positive evaluations shows that there are no expres-
sives which lexicalise both a positive evaluation and a result or both a positive
evaluation and a specification of that positive evaluation. Due to the lack of such
verbs, the number of lexical fields constituted by expressives lexicalising a positive
evaluation is smaller than the number of paradigms constituted by verbs which
lexicalise a negative evaluation.
So far, I have only discussed verbs expressing a positive or negative evaluation
by a resource situation speaker (RS speaker). Apart from these, there are other
verbs which lexicalise a positive evaluation by a RS speaker as well as a negative
Figure 6.  Expressives lexicalising a negative evaluation by SRS
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 145
one by a discourse situation speaker (DS speaker). Examples are boast (German
angeben, Dutch opscheppen), whitewash (German beschönigen, Dutch vergoei­
lijken), glorify (German verherrlichen, Dutch verheerlijken) and flatter (German
schmeicheln, Dutch vleien). These verbs are all used to refer to situations in which
a RS speaker expresses a positive evaluation of some past P (an action and/or an
event or state of affairs and/or a quality of H). In addition to this positive evalua-
tion by a RS speaker, each of these verbs lexicalises a negative evaluation by a DS
speaker. Particularly, boast and glorify lexicalise a DS speaker’s evaluation of the
RS speaker’s positive representation of P as being exaggerated, i.e. as being too
positive. A speaker using the verb whitewash to refer to a RS speaker’s positive
representation of P thereby expresses his or her evaluation of the RS speaker’s
positive representation of P as being inadequate. flatter lexicalises a DS speaker’s
opinion that the RS speaker wants to gain benefits for him- or herself by repre-
senting P (here a past action or a quality of H) positively. This means that a DS
speaker using the verb flatter to refer to a RS speaker’s positive representation of
a hearer’s past action or quality thereby indicates that he/she considers the RS
speaker’s linguistic behaviour to be strategic. Figure 7 below presents an overview
of the different types of evaluations by a DS speaker which are part of the meaning
of boast, glorify, whitewash and flatter and their German and Dutch equivalents.
Figure 7 shows that there are four paradigms of verbs expressing a positive
evaluation by a RS speaker as well as a negative one by a DS speaker. Though there
are no verbs which lexicalise a negative evaluation by a RS speaker and a posi-
tive one by a DS speaker, such combinations are neither logically inconceivable
nor incompatible with patterns of common human practice. It is not difficult, for
example, to imagine a situation in which a DS speaker expresses that he/she con-
siders a RS speaker’s negative evaluation of some past P to be fully justified. Since
situations involving a DS speaker’s positive evaluation of a RS speaker’s negative
representation of P are neither logically inconceivable nor incompatible with pat-
terns of common human practice, it is not clear why there are no special verbs to
refer to such situations.
Taking into account verbs which express a negative evaluation by a RS spea­
ker as well as such which lexicalise a negative evaluation by a DS speaker, there are
nine paradigms of expressives lexicalising negative evaluations. Given that there
are only three paradigms of verbs lexicalising positive evaluations, the number of
lexical fields constituted by expressives lexicalising positive evaluations is much
smaller than the number of paradigms constituted by expressives which lexicalise
negative evaluations.
The fact that negative evaluations get lexicalised more often than positive
ones may also be observed from the number of verbs belonging to the relevant
lexical fields. The list below compares the diversity of the lexical fields containing
146	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
expressives lexicalising negative evaluations and of those comprising expressives
lexicalising positive evaluations:
	 	 Verbs lexicalising a positive evaluation by a resource situation speaker
		 TYPE “WELCOME”
		 English:
		 welcome, assent, affirm, support, approve, praise
		 German:
		 begrüßen, bejahen, befürworten, gutheißen, anerkennen
Figure 7.  Expressives lexicalising a positive evaluation by SRS and a negative one by SDS
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 147
		 Dutch:
		 begroeten, toejuichen, (akkoord gaan met iets), goedkeuren
		 TYPE “COMMEND”
		 English:
		 commend, laud, honour
		 German:
		 loben, huldigen, ehren, würdigen, honorieren
		 Dutch:
		 loven, huldigen, eren
		 TYPE “ENTHUSE”
		 English:
		 enthuse, rave, extol, eulogise
		 German:
		 schwärmen, preisen, lobpreisen, würdigen
		 Dutch:
		 dwepen, prijzen
	 	 Verbs lexicalising a negative evaluation by a discourse situation speaker
		 TYPE “BLAME”
		 English:	
		 blame, criticise, object (to sth.), censure, disapprove, condemn, denounce
		 German:
		 tadeln, rüffeln, kritisieren, beanstanden, bemängeln, monieren, missbilligen,
verurteilen, anprangern
		 Dutch:
		 kritiseren, bevitten, laken, afkeuren, veroordelen
		 TYPE “REPROACH”
		 English:
		 reproach, rebuke, reprimand
		 German:
		 vorwerfen, vorhalten, zurechtweisen
		 Dutch:
		 verwijten, terechtwijzen, berispen
148	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
		 TYPE “GRUMBLE”
		 English:
		 grumble, grouse, carp, nag, cavil (at sth.), quibble
		 German:
		 meckern, mosern, motzen, nörgeln, mäkeln, granteln
		 Dutch:
		 mopperen, kankeren, vitten, bedillen
		 TYPE “DISCREDIT”
		 English:
		 defame, discredit, disparage, calumniate, traduce, slander, blacken, discrimi-
nate, belittle, demean, degrade, insult, compromise, disgrace
		 German:
		 diffamieren,diskreditieren,verunglimpfen,verleumden,schmähen,anschwärzen,
diskriminieren, herabwürdigen, herabsetzen, beleidigen, kompromittieren,
bloßstellen, blamieren
		 Dutch:
		 belasteren, diskrediteren, kwaadspreken (van iem.), smaden, zwart maken,
discrimineren, kleineren, degraderen, vernederen, beledigen, compromitteren,
blameren
		 TYPE “MOCK”
		 English:
		 laugh at, deride, ridicule, chaff, tease, mock, scoff, sneer, jeer, jibe, taunt,
deride
		 German:
		 spotten, verspotten, hänseln, veräppeln, veralbern, necken, jmdn. aufziehen (mit
etw.), höhnen, verhöhnen
		 Dutch:
		 spotten, bespotten, plagen, honen
The diversity of the lexical fields constituted by expressives lexicalising negative
evaluations as compared to those constituted by expressives lexicalising positive
evaluations lends additional support to the observation made with respect to the
number of lexical fields: Patterns of linguistic behaviour which are evaluated neg-
atively (either by RS speaker or by a DS speaker) get lexicalised more often than
such which are evaluated positively.
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 149
3.6.4.3	 Gaps in the fields of verbs expressing emotions
Like expressives lexicalising positive or negative evaluations, such which lexicalise
emotions abound in some verb fields while being scarce in others. Particularly,
there is a large variety of verbs which may be used to refer to situations in which
a speaker expresses his anger or sorrow because of P. As compared to these, there
are only few verbs which may be used to refer to situations in which a speaker
expresses his/her joy because of P. Verbs like rejoice, such like congratulate and
such like thank all lexicalise a speaker’s joy because of P and hence lexicalise the
following combination of speaker attitudes:
	(27)	 


Att(S,P): 	 feels joy because of P (S)								 


		 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (feels joy because of P (S)))))
		 Pres(S): 		 P is the case
In addition to the speaker attitudes in (27), verbs like rejoice lexicalise a specifica-
tion of the mode of speaking as “emphatic”. Other verbs expressing this particular
mode of speaking are exult, German jubilieren, frohlocken and jauchzen as well
as Dutch jubeln and juichen. congratulate (German gratulieren/beglückwünschen,
Dutch feliciteren/gelukwensen) is used to refer to situations in which a speaker ex-
presses his/her joy because of a past action of H or a state which concerns H. There
are no other verbs than congratulate to refer to situations of this type. Finally, thank
(German (be)danken, Dutch (be)danken) lexicalises a speaker’s joy because of a
past action which H has performed to the benefit of S. Here again, thank is the only
verb which lexicalises a specification of P as a past action of H beneficial to S.
The number of verbs used to refer to a speaker’s expression of anger is consid-
erably larger than that of verbs used to refer to a speaker’s expression of joy. Verbs
used to refer to a speaker’s expression of anger lexicalise the following combina-
tion of speaker attitudes:
	(28)	 


Att(S,P): 	 feels anger because of P (S)							 


		 I(S): 			 want (S (recognise (H (feels anger because of P (S)))))
		 Pres(S): 		 P is the case
There are two types of verbs which lexicalise a speaker’s anger because of P. Verbs
like scold (German schimpfen, Dutch schelden) are used to refer to situations in
which a speaker expresses his anger because of a past action, event or state of affairs
while such like upbraid (German beschimpfen and Dutch beschimpen) are used to
refer to situations in which a speaker tells a hearer that he/she is angry because of
something that the hearer has done. Verbs belonging to the first group are swear,
curse, storm, thunder (German poltern, schelten, fluchen, verfluchen, wettern, gei­
fern and giften; Dutch bulderen, razen, tieren, tekeergaan, vloeken, vervloeken and
150	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
verwensen). The second group includes verbs such as spit, snarl, snap, bawl out
(German anfauchen, angeifern, angiften, anherrschen, anscheißen, anschnauzen,
ausschelten; Dutch uitvallen (tegen iemand), uitvaren (tegen iemand), toesnauwen,
uitkafferen, afbekken, uitmaken). As these examples show, there are considerably
more verbs which lexicalise a speaker’s anger because of P than such which ex-
press a speaker’s joy about P.
A speaker describing a situation in which another speaker expresses his or her
sorrow because of P may also choose from a large variety of verbs. The range of
options includes complain, mourn, lament, deplore, regret, bewail, bemoan, (Ger-
man klagen, (sich) beklagen, sich beschweren, bedauern, jammern and lamentieren;
Dutch klagen, beklagen, betreuren, reclameren, jammeren and lamenteren).
Why should it be the case that there are more verbs to refer to situations in
which a speaker expresses his anger because of P than such which may be used
to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses his joy because of P? I sug-
gest that the asymmetry is due to the fact that the expression of joy counts as a
socially accepted pattern of linguistic behaviour, while the expression of anger,
worry, anxiety and possibly also sorrow, is not. In English-, German- and Dutch-
speaking communities, the expression of joy conforms to what is considered to
be “normal” social behaviour and is therefore regarded as being inconspicuous
or unmarked by the speakers of these communities. By contrast, the linguistic
behaviour of a speaker expressing his anger, worry, anxiety or sorrow is regarded
as being a deviation from generally accepted norms. Far from being inconspicu-
ous, these patterns of behaviour count as being salient or marked by speakers of
English, German and Dutch (and other similar languages). The diversity of the
different lexical fields constituted by expressives lexicalising emotions indicates
that patterns of behaviour which count as salient or marked get lexicalised more
often than such which are regarded as being inconspicuous, i.e. unmarked, within
a particular speech community.
Like the expression of anger, worry, anxiety and sorrow, the expression of neg-
ative evaluations counts as a marked pattern of social behaviour in English-, Ger-
man- and Dutch-speaking communities. A DS speaker referring to the linguistic
behaviour of a RS speaker expressing a negative evaluation of P may choose from
a wide range of options. However, there are not nearly as many verbs which may
be used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses a positive evaluation
of P. This means that there is a strong parallelism between the observations made
with respect to expressives lexicalising positive or negative evaluations and such
which lexicalise emotions. The stability of the patterns observed suggests that the
markedness of patterns of linguistic behaviour is highly relevant to the lexicalisa-
tion of evaluations and emotions. The effects of markedness on the lexicalisation
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 151
of concepts of expressive speech acts are captured by the following lexicalisation
principle:
		 Principle of Markedness
		 Patterns of behaviour which count as marked within a particular speech com-
munity get lexicalised more often than such which count as unmarked for the
speakers of that community.
The Principle of Markedness has much in common with the Principle of Cogni-
tive Salience suggested by Verschueren (cf. Verschueren 1985). What I have called
“marked” patterns of behaviour may indeed correspond to concepts termed as
“salient” by Verschueren. However, the Principle of Markedness differs from Ver-
schueren’s Principle of Cognitive Salience in that it assumes that markedness (or
salience) is a property of patterns of social behaviour. In Verschueren’s frame-
work, salience is a property of concepts.
So far, the Principle of Markedness has proven to be relevant to the lexicalisa-
tion of evaluations and emotions. It does not seem to affect the organisation of the
lexical fields constituted by speech act verbs other than expressives. In the next sec-
tion, I shall explore whether the Principle of Markedness may also be claimed to
affect the organisation of the lexical fields constituted by verbs of communication.
3.6.5	 Gaps in the fields of verbs of communication
The idea that marked patterns of behaviour get lexicalised more often than such
which count as “normal” or unmarked also seems to be relevant to the lexicalisa-
tion of the concept of different ways of speaking. A speaker’s manner of saying
something may be judged positively or negatively, i.e. as being agreeable or not,
eloquent or not, clear or not, fluent or not etc. Acts of talking fluently, eloquently,
agreeably, clearly etc. may be regarded as being “normal” or unmarked patterns
of linguistic behaviour. By contrast, acts of talking in an unclear, non-fluent, non-
eloquent or disagreeable manner may be considered to be marked patterns of
linguistic behaviour.
.	 Markedness is also sometimes regarded as a property of lexical items. According to Klamer,
for example, lexical items may be semantically and/or structurally marked (cf. Klamer 2002).
Semantic markedness is defined as semantic complexity: “… a semantically marked word is
a conceptually complex word, which has, in addition to basic semantic features, one or more
evaluative, subjective, and/or descriptive semantic feature(s)” (ibid.: 259). Structural marked-
ness is defined in terms of the relative violation of structural constraints on the wellformedness
of lexical items: a more constrained item is less structurally complex, because it violates fewer
constraints (cf. ibid.: 260).
152	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
An examination of the inventory of verbs lexicalising an evaluation of a par-
ticular mode of speaking indicates that verbs lexicalising a positive evaluation by
a DS speaker of a RS speaker’s manner of saying something are rare or even non-
existent. However, verbs lexicalising a negative evaluation of a speaker’s mode
of saying something abound in almost every paradigm. Examples of such verbs
include those in (29a)–(32b):
		 Verbs expressing a particular degree of sound intensity
	(29)	 a.	 E.: bawl
			 G.: grölen
			 D.: joelen
			 (Meaning: ‘to speak loudly and discordantly’)
		 b.	 E.: shrill
			 G.: kreischen
			 D.: krijsen
			 (Meaning: ‘to speak loudly and in a shrill voice’)
		 Verbs expressing a particular manner of articulation
	(30)	 a.	 E.: murmur
			 G.: murmeln
			 D.: mompelen
			 (Meaning: ‘to speak unclearly and in a low voice’)
		 b.	 E.: mumble
			 G.: nuscheln
			 D.: ∅
			 (Meaning: ‘to speak unclearly’)
		 Verbs expressing a particular kind of timbre
	(31)	 a.	 E.: caw
			 G.: krächzen
			 D.: krassen
			 (‘to speak in a hoarse voice’)
		 b.	 E.: croak
			 G.: quäken
			 D.: ∅
			 (Meaning: ‘to speak in a high and choked voice’)
		 Verbs expressing a particular rhythm
	(32)	 E.: stutter/stammer
		 G.: stottern/stammeln
		 D.: stotteren/stamelen
		 (Meaning: ‘to talk with an uneven rhythm’)
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 153
The absence of verbs meaning ‘to speak clearly’, ‘to speak with an even rhythm’, ‘to
talk in a warm voice’, ‘to talk loudly and clearly’ etc. indicates that verbs expressing
positive evaluations of a speaker’s mode of saying something are rare or even non-
existent. Assuming that positive evaluations correspond to unmarked patterns of
linguistic behaviour and negative evaluations to marked patterns, the abundance
of verbs lexicalising negative evaluations of a mode of speaking and the scarcity
of such lexicalising positive evaluations of a manner of speaking support the as-
sumption that the Principle of Markedness is highly relevant to the lexicalisation
of evaluations of the way in which a speaker utters something.
This finding is confirmed by two examples of gaps mentioned in Brdar &
Brdar-Szabó’s study of gaps in the fields of verbs expressing a particular manner
of speaking (cf. Brdar & Brdar-Szabó 2004). Comparing the meanings of Hungar-
ian, Croatian, English and German verbs, these authors observe that some aspects
of manner of speaking such as the perspectivisation of the speech act content,
the speech act’s intended effect and various physical aspects of speaking may be
referred to cross-linguistically by a large number of specific expressions, while
others may not be referred to by lexical expressions (verbs) at all. As examples
of the latter, Brdar & Brdar-Szabó mention the lack of verbs to refer to situations
in which a speaker is concrete about something or to such in which a speaker
talks clearly about something (cf. ibid.: 145). If being concrete about something
or speaking clearly are indeed unmarked patterns of linguistic behaviour, these
examples show that the markedness of the situation referred to is relevant to the
way in which concepts of modes of speaking get lexicalised cross-linguistically.
3.7	 Conclusion: Explanations for the occurrence of lexical gaps
The investigation of the distribution of gaps across the lexical fields constituted by
different types of speech act verbs and verbs of communication has shown that a
considerable number of gaps fall into one of the following patterns:
1.	 Speech act verbs tend to cluster at a middle or basic level of specificity. Conse-
quently, lexical gaps tend to occur on the levels of specificity below and above
the basic level. This means that hyponyms as well as hyperonyms of basic level
items are often missing.
2.	 Specifications of P as either P or ¬P often fail to get lexicalised. Gaps resulting
from the non-lexicalisation of P as either P or ¬P occur in each of the main
classes of speech act verbs.
3.	 Concepts of speech acts whereby a speaker informs a hearer of some past
action, event or state of affairs get lexicalised more often than concepts of
154	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
speech acts by which a speaker informs a hearer of a future action, event or
state of affairs.
4.	 The two main types of representatives (assertives and information verbs) lexi-
calise different conceptual components. On the one hand, assertives lexicalise
different stages in the interaction of S and H which are not part of the mean-
ing of information verbs. On the other hand, information verbs lexicalise
many different specifications of P which do not get lexicalised by assertives.
5.	 Concepts of directive and commissive speech acts get lexicalised when they
involve a balance of costs and benefits. Directives lexicalise the costs accruing
to H from his doing (or not doing) P as well as the benefits arising to S (or
occasionally to H, cf. allow) from H’s doing (or not doing) P. Commissives
lexicalise S’s costs of doing (or not doing) P as well as the benefits resulting to
H from S’s doing (or not doing) P. Since this pattern has proven to hold for
almost all directives and commissives in English, German and Dutch, it may
be considered to be a particularly stable one.
6.	 The inventory of commissives contains many more gaps than that of direc-
tives. This is due to the fact that directives lexicalise many different specifica-
tions of P which do not get lexicalised by commissives.
7.	 Speech acts which are regarded as instances of marked linguistic behaviour
get lexicalised more often than such which conform to social norms and are
therefore considered to be “normal” or unmarked patterns of linguistic be-
haviour. The following speech acts count as examples of marked linguistic
behaviour:
	 –	 Speech acts involving the expression of a negative evaluation (either a RS
	 speaker’s negative evaluation of a past action, event or state of affairs or a
	 DS speaker’s negative evaluation of a RS speaker’s mode of speaking).
	 –	 Speech acts whereby a speaker expresses his anger, worry or grief because
	 of P.
	 –	 Speech acts performed by a speaker who does not take P to be true but
	 wants that H recognise that he takes P to be true.
	 By contrast, the following speech acts are considered to conform to social
norms and are therefore regarded as being “normal” or unmarked:
	 –	 Speech acts involving the expression of a positive evaluation (either a RS
	 speaker’s positive evaluation of an action, event or state of affairs or a DS
	 speaker’s positive evaluation of a RS speaker’s mode of speaking).
	 –	 Speech acts whereby a speaker expresses his/her joy because of P.
	 –	 Speech acts performed by a speaker who takes P to be true and also wants
	 the hearer to recognise that he/she takes P to be true.
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 155
Patterns 1–7 appear to be stable cross-linguistically: They apply to English, Ger-
man and Dutch. Differences in the lexicalisation of communication concepts
among these languages are of a rather more coincidental nature. Examples of
such differences are the absence of an English equivalent of German abraten and
Dutch afraden as well as the absence of English and Dutch equivalents of German
zutragen.
For some of the patterns in 1–7, there are obvious explanations. The abun-
dance of assertives lexicalising different stages in the interaction of S and H, for
example, is evidently related to the fact that the process of argumentation itself
involves several such stages. A speaker may make an initial claim that something
is true (or not true), confirm or deny that somebody else’s claim is true, insist on
the truth of his or her own initial claim etc. Reactive stages being essential to the
process of argumentation, it is not surprising that speakers need special words
to refer to them. The abundance of assertives lexicalising different stages in the
interaction of S and H obviously reflects the structure of argumentation itself.
Other patterns may hardly be explained at all. It is not at all clear, for example,
why specifications of P as either P or ¬P do not get lexicalised by special illocu-
tionary verbs. Obviously, the use of more general verbs covering acts of saying that
P as well as such of saying that ¬P is an effect of a principle of lexical economy. But
why should lexical economy be called for with respect to the lexicalisation of P as
P or ¬P, while the lexicon is in fact highly diversified with respect to other types
of specification of P? If lexical economy (or its opposite, lexical diversity) reflects
what is considered to be relevant within a specific speech community, why should
the specification of P as P or ¬P be considered irrelevant (or less highly relevant)
while other types of specification of P seem to be highly relevant? Obviously, prin-
ciples of lexical economy or relevance alone do not answer the question of why
there are no special illocutionary verbs to refer to acts of saying that P or to such
of saying that ¬P. It seems that the question may hardly be answered at all.
While some patterns in the distribution of lexical gaps are obviously related
to properties of corresponding speech acts, and others may not plausibly be ex-
plained at all, there is a third category of patterns which may be explained in
terms of culture-specific, cognitive or pragmatic principles. To account for pat-
terns 1, 3, 5 and 7, I have suggested the following explanations:
1.	 The scarcity of representatives with future reference in English, German and
Dutch is likely to be due to the fact that future events themselves are not at-
tributed much significance in English-, German- and Dutch-speaking com-
munities. This may be different in speech communities which attach great
importance to magic. Such communities may have developed vocabularies
which are highly differentiated with respect to the possibilities of future refer-
156	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
ence. This means that the scarcity of representatives with future reference in
English, German and Dutch may be due to culture-specific reasons.
2.	 If the basic level is indeed the most salient level of specificity from a cognitive
point of view and if it is also the one which is most easily accessible as Rosch
et al. claim (cf. Rosch et al. 1976), this may be the reason why hyponyms as
well as hyperonyms of basic level verbs are often missing. Insofar as the Basic
Level Principle is a cognitive principle, the occurrence of gaps on the levels
of specificity below and above the basic level may have to be accounted for by
cognitive principles.
3.	 As I have pointed out above, the lexicalisation of concepts of directive and
commissive speech acts seems to be governed by what may be called a “Prin-
ciple of Costs and Benefits”. Costs and benefits were already claimed to be
relevant to the lexicalisation of concepts of communication by Edmondson
(cf. Section 2.2.3). Though Edmondson was right in assuming that costs and
benefits affect the way in which concepts of communication get lexicalised
(in English), his explanation of how costs and benefits affect lexicalisation was
wrong. While Edmondson concluded that hearer-supportive behaviour tends
to get lexicalised and speaker-supportive behaviour tends not to, costs and
benefits turn out to affect lexicalisation in a completely different way. What
is relevant to lexicalisation is not what is hearer- and what is speaker-sup-
portive. Rather, costs and benefits affect lexicalisation to the extent that only
speech act concepts involving costs as well as benefits get lexicalised. Direc-
tive and commissive speech acts involving only costs do not get lexicalised.
The Principle of Costs and Benefits is a pragmatic principle.
4.	 Markedness effects have been observed within the classes of expressives,
representatives like lie and verbs of communication lexicalising a particular
mode of speaking. Like the Principle of Costs and Benefits, the Principle of
Markedness is a pragmatic principle.
The Principle of Markedness affects all types of expressives, representatives like
lie and verbs of communication lexicalising a particular mode of speaking. The
Principle of Costs and Benefits is relevant to all types of directives and commis-
sives. To the extent that either of these principles affects a large number of verbs
in many different verb classes, they are the most important principles governing
the lexicalisation of concepts of communication. However, a comparison of these
principles presents us with a serious problem: Speech acts involving a balance of
costs and benefits may reasonably be argued to conform to social rules and may
therefore be regarded as being unmarked. If this is true, only unmarked patterns
of behaviour get lexicalised by directive and commissive predicates. This con-
clusion perfectly contradicts my earlier claim that marked patterns of behaviour
	 Chapter 3.  Lexical gaps	 157
get lexicalised more often than such which are regarded as being unmarked. The
Principle of Costs and Benefits and that of Markedness are in fact mutually in-
compatible.
One consequence of the incompatibility of the Principle of Costs and Benefits
with that of Markedness is that the two principles may not be ordered hierar-
chically. Since the two principles contradict each other, neither of them may be
superordinate (or subordinate) to the other. Neither can there be a third principle
superordinate to both. This also implies that the Principle of Cognitive Salience
suggested by Verschueren does not offer a general explanation for why some con-
cepts of communication get lexicalised while others do not. It simply makes the
wrong predictions with respect to the lexicalisation of concepts of directive and
commissive speech acts.
While the Principle of Markedness is not relevant to the lexicalisation of con-
cepts of directive and commissive speech acts, the Principle of Costs and Ben-
efits does not affect the lexicalisation of concepts of expressive speech acts. As I
have mentioned in the introduction to this chapter, different types of expressions
require different conceptual systems for the description of their lexicalisation
properties. Given that different types of speech act verbs correspond to different
types of concepts, it is not surprising that the lexicalisation of different types of
communication concepts is governed by different lexicalisation principles. The
mutual incompatibility of the principles governing the lexicalisation of concepts
of directive and commissive speech acts on the one hand and concepts of expres-
sive speech acts on the other shows that these two types of concepts are in fact
completely different in nature.
chapter 4
Concepts of communication lexicalised
by idioms and collocations
4.1	 Introduction
In the previous chapter, I have been concerned with gaps in the inventory of
speech act verbs and verbs of communication. The fact that some concepts of
communication are not lexicalised by verbs does not necessarily imply that these
concepts are not lexicalised at all. It is possible in principle, for example, that con-
cepts of communication not lexicalised by verbs are lexicalised by lexical items
other than words. Specifically, some concepts of communication which are not
lexicalised by verbs may be lexicalised by idioms and collocations of the category
‘VP’. If this were indeed the case, idioms and collocations would function as fillers
of gaps in the inventory of speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
This chapter deals with the lexicalisation properties of idioms and collocations
used to refer to linguistic actions. Particularly, it will be concerned with the ques-
tion of whether these complex communicative expressions lexicalise concepts of
communication different from those lexicalised by verbs. Since the meaning of
complex lexicalisations will be compared to that of simple ones, i.e. verbs, I shall
only take into account idioms and collocations of the category ‘VP’.
Complex lexicalisations, especially idiomatic expressions, have frequently
been claimed to express speaker attitudes often also including an evaluation by the
speaker using these expressions to describe a particular situation (cf. Černyševa
1984: 18; Dobrovol’skij 1988: 38–42; Kühn 1985: 42–44; Černyševa 1989: 44–45;
Schindler 1993: 101–103; Nunberg, Sag & Wasow 1994: 493; Burger 1998: 185–
186; Pabst 2004: 81). However, the expression of speaker attitudes and evaluations
is not an exclusive characteristic of idiomatic expressions: most speech act verbs
lexicalise configurations of speaker attitudes, often also including an evaluation of
the propositional content by the resource situation speaker, and many of them ad-
ditionally express an evaluation by the discourse situation speaker. On the whole,
speech act verbs may lexicalise one of the following four types of evaluations (cf.
Harras & Proost 2005):
160	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
–	 Explicit evaluations by a resource situation speaker: Such evaluations are typ-
ically lexicalised by expressives. For example, verbs like praise (German loben,
Dutch loven) lexicalise a positive and such like blame (German tadeln, Dutch
berispen) a negative evaluation of P by a resource situation speaker.
–	 Explicit evalutions by a discourse situation speaker: Examples are the evalua-
tions lexicalised by verbs like boast (German angeben, Dutch opscheppen) and
fib (German schwindeln, Dutch jokken). As I have shown in Chapter 1, boast
lexicalises a positive evaluation by a resource situation speaker as well as a
negative one by a discourse situation speaker. Specifically, a speaker choosing
a verb like boast to describe an act of self-praise of a resource situation speaker
indicates that he/she considers the resource situation speaker’s positive evalu-
ation of P to be exaggerated. By contrast, a discourse situation speaker using a
verb like fib to refer to an act of lying of a resource situation speaker indicates
that he/she considers the resource situation speaker’s act of lying to be rather
more innocent.
–	 Implicit evaluations which have the status of lexical presuppositions: An ex-
ample is the speaker’s presupposition lexicalised by warn (German warnen,
Dutch waarschuwen) that P is not in the interest of H. Evaluations like this
differ from those lexicalised by expressives like praise and criticise in that
they are presupposed rather than supposed by a resource situation speaker.
Because of this, I shall refer to them as “implicit” evaluations. The fact that
evaluations like that lexicalised by warn survive under negation indicates that
they have the status of genuine lexical presuppositions.
–	 Implicit evaluations which do not have the status of lexical presuppositions:
Such evaluations are lexicalised by verbs like request (German auffordern,
Dutch vorderen) and promise (German versprechen, Dutch beloven). These
verbs lexicalise the speaker’s presupposition that P is in the interest of S (re-
quest) or the speaker’s presupposition that P is in the interest of H (prom-
ise). Since these evaluations are presupposed rather than supposed by a re-
source situation speaker, they are implicit evaluations. Unlike the evaluation
lexicalised by warn, the evaluations lexicalised by request and promise do not
have the status of lexical presuppositions. Figure 1 shows the different types
of evaluations which may be lexicalised by speech act verbs.
Since simple as well as complex communicative expressions lexicalise evaluations,
it is not clear whether there are any differences between the evaluations lexicalised
by complex communicative expressions and those lexicalised by simple ones. I
shall therefore also explore the question of whether the evaluations lexicalised by
idioms, and possibly also collocations, differ from those lexicalised by verbs.
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 161
The application of Edmondson’s ordering system has shown so far that the
two main types of complex lexicalisations, idioms and collocations, differ consid-
erably with respect to the concepts they lexicalise. Edmondson’s ordering system
represents situations referred to in directive, commissive, expressive and some
representative acts by means of 32 combinations of values for five binary parame-
ters (cf. Section 2.2.3). Though it fails to cover many speech act predicates (such as
representatives), it also allows the classification of many other speech act verbs as
well as collocations which may be used as synonyms of these. However, most idi-
oms fail to be covered. In Chapter 2, I have interpreted this observation as an indi-
cation of the lexicalisation properties which distinguish idioms from collocations:
idioms lexicalise concepts of communication different from those lexicalised by
verbs, while collocations and verbs generally lexicalise identical concepts.
Similar results have been obtained by the application of Harras’ ordering sys-
tem for concepts of communication which was presented in Section 2.2.4. This
ordering system was used in the Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsverben to
represent the meaning of German speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
In the Handbuch, German speech act verbs and verbs of communication are clas-
sified as belonging to paradigms of synonymous verbs. The Handbuch covers 696
German speech act verbs and verbs of communication (the different senses of a
Figure 1.  Types of evaluations lexicalised by speech act verbs (from Harras & Proost
2005: 324)
162	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
verb having been counted separately). In its dictionary volume, complex lexicali-
sations do not occur as headwords but are listed as synonyms of verbs. Since most
German collocations referring to linguistic actions may be used as synonyms (on
the conceptual level of meaning) of speech act verbs and verbs of communication,
they are classified as belonging to the semantic fields constituted by these verbs.
However, there is a large number of German idioms whose meaning cannot be
described by means of the conceptual system used. The combinations of values
lexicalised by verbs do not cover the conceptual component of the meaning of
many idioms. This result confirms that obtained by the application of Edmond-
son’s ordering system: many idioms lexicalise concepts of communication differ-
ent from those lexicalised by verbs.
If idioms lexicalise concepts of communication different from those lexi-
calised by verbs, what types of concepts do they lexicalise? Do idioms really lexi-
calise concepts which are more complex than those lexicalised by single words as
Fellbaum suggests (cf. Fellbaum 1998: 56–57), or do they lexicalise different types
of concepts, the level of complexity of these being the same? The concepts lexi-
calised by idioms may consist, for example, of components entirely different from
those which are part of the concepts lexicalised by verbs. Alternatively, they may
consist of different combinations of the same conceptual components. Differences
like these would not necessarily affect the level of complexity of these concepts.
Before answering these questions, I shall deal with another more basic one:
if idioms, and possibly also a small number of collocations, lexicalise concepts
different from those lexicalised by verbs, may these idioms and collocations be
regarded as fillers of lexical gaps? Obviously, idioms and collocations may be re-
garded as fillers of gaps in the word inventory only if their lexical status, the posi-
tion they occupy as elements of the lexicon, is more or less comparable to that of
words. This means that the lexicalisation properties of idioms and collocations
may only be dealt with if it is clear that these word combinations are indeed ele-
ments of the lexicon and how their lexical status differs from that of words.
4.2	 The lexical status of complex lexicalisations
Communicative expressions like blow one’s own trumpet and give/make some-
one a promise are combinations of words commonly referred to as “phraseologi-
cal units” (cf. Weinreich 1969), “fixed expressions” (cf. Alexander 1987), “word
combinations” (cf. Cowie 1998), “multiword expressions” (cf. Fernando 1996),
“phrasal lexemes” (cf. Moon 2001) or “phrasemes” (cf. Mel’čuk 2001). I prefer
the terms “phraseological units”, “phrasal lexemes” and “phrasemes” over “fixed
expressions”, “multiword expressions” and “word combinations”: the term “fixed
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 163
expressions” does not express that the expressions in question consist of more
than one word, while “multiword expressions” and “word combinations” do not
reflect the fact that the expressions referred to are elements of the lexicon. In
what follows, I shall use the term “phrasemes” as a cover term referring to all
types of lexical units which consist of more than one word. My usage of the term
“phrasemes” parallels that of the German term “Phraseologismen”, which is now
being widely used in German literature on phraseology as a general term refer-
ring to phraseological units of different types (cf. Gläser 1986; Fleischer 1997;
Burger 1998). Following Verschueren, I shall also sometimes use the term “com-
plex lexicalisations” to set phrasemes explicitly apart from “simple lexicalisations”,
i.e. words (cf. Verschueren 1985: 30–31).
Phrasemes are commonly defined as word combinations whose morpho-syn-
tactic and lexical structure may be varied only within definable limits (Burger
1998: 22–23; Dobrovol’skij 1995: 38–39; Fernando 1996: 43–45; Cowie, Mackin &
McCaig 1996: xxii–xxiii; Gläser 1986: 20; Cowie 1998: 674). Free combinations of
words (phrases, clauses and sentences) differ from phrasemes in that they allow
any structural changes as long as these do not violate the rules of grammar. Word
combinations whose structure may be varied in accordance with grammatical
rules are referred to as being “compositional”. Such whose structural variability is
subject not only to grammatical rules but also to additional, specifically phraseo-
logical constraints are called “structurally stable” or “non-compositional”. Struc-
tural stability is characteristic of all phrasemes.
Idioms as well as collocations are word combinations whose morpho-syntac-
tic and lexical structure is more or less invariable. Idioms differ from collocations
in that they are non-compositional not only with respect to their morpho-syn-
tactic and lexical structure but also regarding their meaning (cf. Dobrovol’skij
1995: 19–20). Since idioms are both formally and semantically non-composition-
al, their degree of non-compositionality or stability is higher than that of colloca-
tions, which are formally but not semantically non-compositional.
Idioms are not all equally idiomatic. Some contain components which pre-
serve their lexical meaning, namely the meaning they have when they occur in
isolation. Idioms containing such components are often referred to as “semi-literal
idioms” or “semi-idioms” (cf. Fernando 1996: 70; Burger 1998: 37–38). Examples
are promise the moon and lie through/in one’s teeth. Word combinations like cry
one’s eyes out and scare the daylights out of somebody, which Jackendoff consid-
ers to be idiomatic specialisations of the resultative construction (cf. Jackendoff
1995: 153–156), may also be regarded as semi-idioms. Their degree of idiomaticity
is comparable to that of phrasemes like (as) cool as a cucumber, promise the moon
and lie through/in one’s teeth (cf. Figure 2 below). Idioms which do not contain
components which preserve their lexical meaning are referred to as being “fully
164	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
idiomatic” (cf. Fleischer 1997: 68–69) or “non-literal” (cf. Fernando 1996: 32). Al-
ternatively, they are simply called “idioms” (cf. Burger 1998: 38). Examples of fully
idiomatic idioms include spill the beans and kick the bucket. Semi-idioms differ
from idioms which are fully idiomatic in that they contain at least one component
whose lexical meaning contributes to the meaning of the idiom as a whole. Be-
cause of this, semi-idioms are always compositional to a certain degree. They are
less idiomatic than fully idiomatic idioms.
Fully idiomatic idioms which are decomposable may also be considered to
be compositional. Idioms are decomposable (and hence compositional) if their
meaning may be described by a paraphrase in which parts of the idiom’s lexical
structure correspond to parts of its meaning (cf. Nunberg, Sag & Wasow 1994;
Dobrovol’skij 2000). Fully idiomatic idioms like spill the beans and let the cat out
of the bag are decomposable while such like kick the bucket, chew the fat and bite
the dust are not. Since the degree of compositionality of decomposable idioms is
higher than that of non-decomposable idioms, the former are slightly less idio­
matic than the latter (cf. Figure 2).
Unlike phrasemes, words may be compositional only with respect to their
morphological structure. They may be regarded as being compositional when
they are morphologically complex. However, words are neither syntactically nor
lexically variable. Syntactic operations such as passivisation and topicalisation
apply to sentences but not internally to words. They do not break up the inter-
nal structure of words as they break up that of sentences. Words are the most
stable units of the lexicon. On the scale of non-compositionality, they occupy a
position opposite that of free combinations of words. Phrasemes are more stable
than free combinations of words but less stable than words. On the scale of non-
Figure 2.  Degree of non-compositionality (stability) of words, idioms, collocations and
free combinations of words
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 165
compositionality, they are therefore situated in between the former and the lat-
ter. Collocations occupy a position close to free combinations of words, while
idioms are situated in between collocations and words. Figure 2 shows the degree
of non-compositionality or stability of words, phrasemes and free combinations
of words.
In this section, I have shown that different types of phrasemes differ with
respect to their degree of non-compositionality. The degree of structural and/or
semantic non-compositionality of a phraseme determines the lexical status of that
phraseme. The lexical status of phrasemes is relevant to the question of whether
these expressions may fill gaps in the inventory of words. Clearly, phrasemes may
be considered to fill such gaps only if their lexical status is similar to that of words.
Since the degree of non-compositionality of idioms is higher than that of colloca-
tions, idioms are more akin to words than collocations with respect to their lexical
status. Because of this, idioms rather than collocations may be regarded as fillers
of gaps in the word inventory. The next section will be concerned with the dif-
ferences in meaning between simple and complex communicative expressions. I
shall first focus on the question of whether idioms, and possibly also collocations,
fill gaps on the conceptual and/or lexical level of the meaning of speech act verbs
and verbs of communication.
4.3	 The lexicalisation properties of idioms and collocations:
	 An empirical investigation
To investigate the lexicalisation properties of complex communicative expres-
sions, I used the German data I gathered as a part of my work on the project
“Tendenzen der Lexikalisierung kommunikativer Konzepte”. Within the frame-
work of this project, I carried out a systematic study of the semantic differences
between simple and complex communicative expressions. The study focused on
the question of whether idioms and collocations lexicalise concepts of communi-
cation different from those lexicalised by verbs. As I have shown in Section 2.2.4,
the conceptual level of the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of communica-
tion may be represented by means of combinations of values for the attributes
of the aspects ‘propositional content’, ‘propositional attitude’, ‘speaker intention’
and ‘speaker presuppositions’. Verbs which lexicalise the same combinations of
values constitute a lexical field. Where speech act-related idioms and collocations
could be classified as elements of the fields constituted by verbs, I concluded that
the relevant phrasemes, being synyonyms of verbs, lexicalise the same concepts
as these. Where idioms and collocations proved to lack one-word synonyms and
hence could not be classified as belonging to verb fields, I expanded the concep-
166	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
tual system used to describe the meaning of verbs by those parameters necessary
to describe that of complex communicative expressions. These parameters served
as an indication of the types of communication concepts which get lexicalised by
idioms and collocations rather than by verbs. When analysed in this way, German
idioms and collocations lacking one-word synonyms appeared to constitute three
idiom-specific lexical fields corresponding to three basic types of concepts (cf.
Proost 2006a: 67–86). In the remainder of this chapter, I shall be concerned with
the question of whether complex communicative expressions lexicalise the same
basic types of concepts in English and in Dutch.
As the empirical basis of my study, I used a corpus comprising 676 German
idioms and collocations used to refer to communicative acts. These are listed in
Appendix II of this study. The relevant idioms and collocations were taken from
the Duden idiom dictionary (Duden 11: Duden Redewendungen und sprichwörtli-
che Redensarten). Where complex lexicalisations turned out to be missing from
this dictionary, I added some which I encountered elsewhere, not taking into ac-
count the following types of expressions:
–	 Expressions which are becoming outdated. Examples are jemanden in den
Himmel heben (‘to heave somebody into heaven’, meaning: ‘to excessively praise
somebody’) and (mit jemandem) (über etwas) zu Rate sitzen (‘to sit at council
(with somebody) (on something)’, meaning ‘to confer (on/upon something)
(with somebody)’).
–	 Expressions which are not used primarily to refer to communicative acts. Ex-
amples include ein Gewese von etwas machen (the German equivalent of make
a fuss about something), jemanden vom rechten Weg abbringen (‘bring some-
body off the right track’, meaning ‘to lead somebody astray from the straight
and narrow’), ins Fettnäpfchen treten (‘to step into the grease pot’, correspond-
ing to English put one’s foot in it). ein Gewese von etwas machen is used at
the same time to refer to a particular psychological state (‘consider something
to be very important’) and the linguistic expression of that state. The idiom
jemanden vom rechten Weg abbringen is used to describe a whole chain of lin-
guistic as well as non-linguistic actions, and ins Fettnäpchen treten lexicalises
the result of any type of linguistic action. Expressions like these are not speci-
fied with respect to the type of linguistic action they are used to refer to.
–	 Idioms and collocations expressing a disposition. Examples are auswärts re-
den/sprechen (‘talk ouside’, meaning ‘talk a foreign language fluently’) and
eine große Klappe haben (‘have a big trap’, meaning ‘have a big mouth/be a
bigmouth’). These idioms do not refer to linguistic actions but to aspects of
a person’s character which manifest themselves in that person’s linguistic ac-
tions.
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 167
The phrasemes which were part of the corpus were classified as being collocations,
idioms or semi-idioms on the basis of the criteria introduced in Section 4.2. The
presence or absence of unique elements was used as an additional criterion to dis-
tinguish idioms from collocations. Since unique elements occur only as parts of
phrasemes, their meaning is always bound to that of the phraseme of which they
are a part. Unique elements do not have a lexical meaning of their own, because
they do not occur in isolation. Consequently, the meaning of phrasemes contain-
ing unique elements is not composed of the lexical meanings of these phrasemes’
components. They contain at least one component (the unique element) which
does not contribute with its lexical meaning to the meaning of the whole. The
presence of unique elements increases the degree of semantic non-composition-
ality (or idiomaticity) of a phraseme. Examples of German phrasemes containing
unique elements are jemanden in die Irre führen/leiten (‘lead somebody onto the
wrong track’, meaning ‘lead somebody astray’) and jemanden in Verruf bringen
(‘bring somebody into discredit’, meaning ‘discredit somebody’). The nouns Irre
and Verruf are unique elements, because their occurrence is restricted to these
and a few other phrasemes. Since these nouns increase the degree of idiomaticity
of the phrasemes of which they are a part, jmdn. in die Irre führen/leiten and jmdn.
in Verruf bringen were classified as idioms rather than as collocations.
In the corpus, phrasemes with lexicalised variants were counted as only one
phraseme. Thus, jemanden auf den Zahn/Puls fühlen (‘feel somebody on the tooth/
pulse’, meaning either ‘to pump’ or ‘to examine’ in the sense of ‘test somebody’s
knowledge or skill’) was regarded as only one (polysemous) idiom rather than as
two different ones. Likewise, jemandem zureden wie einem lahmen Gaul/einem
kranken Schimmel/einem kranken Pferd/einem kranken Ross/einem kranken Kind
(‘to talk to somebody as to a lame nag/a sick white horse/a sick horse/a sick steed/
a sick child’ meaning ‘to beg (somebody) (to do something)’) was counted as one
idiom rather than as five different ones.
Complex lexicalisations with more than one speech act related sense were
counted as often as they had different senses. The idiom jemandem auf den Zahn/
Puls fühlen, for example, was counted twice, because it may be used not only as a
directive of the type ‘pump’ but also as a directive of the type ‘examine’. The corpus
of German idioms and collocations contains 17 expressions with two speech act
related senses and one (eine Verpflichtung eingehen) with three such senses. eine
Verpflichtung eingehen (‘enter into an obligation’), may be used as a synonym of
promise, guarantee and vow, which are three different types of commissive verbs.
639 expressions were either monosemous or had only one speech act related sense.
Since expressions with two or three readings were counted twice or thrice, the
corpus contains a total number of 676 complex lexicalisations. Of these, 474 are
idioms; the remaining 202 are collocations. Of the total number of the 474 idioms
168	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
considered, 402 are fully idiomatic expressions, while 72 are semi-idioms. This
means that collocations represented 29.9%, fully idiomatic expressions 59.5% and
semi-idioms 10.6% of the 676 complex lexicalisations considered (cf. Figure 3).
In my study of the meaning of complex vs. simple lexicalisations, I consider
mainly German data. This is due to the fact that the meaning of German speech
act verbs and verbs of communication has already systematically been described
in the Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsverben. In the Handbuch, the mean-
ing of German speech act verbs and verbs of communication is described against
the background of a system showing the relations among concepts of communi-
cation as well as those between concepts and verbs. Since the Handbuch includes
a close to exhaustive inventory of verb-concept relations, it provides an ideal basis
for a comparison of the meaning of complex and simple lexicalisations. A similar
representation of the relations between communicative expressions and concepts
of communication was not at my disposal for either English or Dutch. Existing
publications dealing with the meaning of English and/or Dutch speech act verbs
and verbs of communication are either not concerned with verb-concept rela-
tions (e.g. Ballmer & Brennenstuhl 1981; Vanderveken 1990) or do not represent
a complete list of these (e.g. Miller & Johnson-Laird 1976; Verschueren 1980). For
this reason, a systematic comparison of the meaning of complex and simple lexi-
calisations could be achieved more easily for German than for English or Dutch.
In the next section, I shall first show to what extent German idioms and col-
locations may be classified as belonging to the fields of German speech act verbs
and verbs of communication. Where I discuss single lexical fields of German, I
shall compare these with the corresponding lexical fields in English and Dutch.
Figure 3.  Corpus of German phrasemes: Proportion of fully idiomatic expressions,
semi-idioms and collocations
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 169
4.4	 Idioms and collocations with one-word synonyms
4.4.1	 Idioms and collocations as synonyms of speech act verbs
	 and verbs of communication
Of the 676 complex lexicalisations which were part of the corpus, 441 (i.e. 65.2%)
have one-word synonyms. These complex lexicalisations could be classified as be-
longing to the fields of speech act verbs and verbs of communication. This means
that 65.2% of the complex lexicalisations considered may be used as synonyms of
simple lexicalisations. Most of the complex lexicalisations which could be classi-
fied as belonging to the fields of speech act verbs or verbs of communication are
synonyms of these on the conceptual as well as the lexical level of meaning. This
is true, for example, of the idioms and collocations in (1), which may be used as
synonyms of verbs like mitteilen (Engl. communicate), informieren (Engl. inform)
and sagen (Engl. say or tell in the relevant sense of ‘inform’). (In the examples
below, ‘COLL’ stands for ‘collocation’, ‘I’ for ‘fully idiomatic expressions’, ‘SI’ for
‘semi-idiom’ and ‘Utt(P)’ for ‘utterance with propositional content P’.)
	 (1)	 Synonyms of mitteilen, informieren, sagen etc. (meaning: ‘to utter one or more
Utt(P) to make H know P’)
		 – (jmdm.) Bescheid sagen (COLL)
		 – jmdn. über etwas ins Bild setzen (I)
		 – jmdn. von etwas in Kenntnis setzen (COLL)
		 – jmdm. etwas zur Kenntnis bringen (COLL)
		 – jmdm. ein Licht aufstecken (I)
		 – jmdn. schlau machen (I)
		 – jmdn. etwas wissen lassen (COLL)
Representatives like mitteilen are used to refer to situations in which a speaker
who knows P and assumes that H does not know P makes an utterance with the
intention of making H know P. Since these speaker attitudes are part of the situ-
ation referred to by verbs like mitteilen, they are also elements of the conceptual
part of the meaning of these verbs. The same type of situation may also be referred
to by the complex lexicalisations in (1). Figure 4 below represents the conceptual
part of the meaning of verbs like inform/informieren/meedelen and their simple
and complex synonyms in English, German and Dutch.
VP-phrasemes may also be used as synonyms of verbs like versprechen (Engl.:
promise), schwören (Engl.: swear) and geloben (Engl. vow, pledge), cf. examples
(2)–(4):
170	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 (2)	 Synonyms of versprechen (meaning: ‘to utter one or more Utt(P) in order to
make H recognise that S intends to do P; P is in the interest of H’):
		 – (jmdm.) ein Versprechen geben (COLL)
		 – (jmdm.) sein Wort/Ehrenwort geben (COLL)
		 – jmdm. etwas in Aussicht stellen (COLL)
		 – eine Verpflichtung eingehen (COLL)
		 – eine Zusicherung machen/geben (COLL)
	 (3)	 Synonyms of schwören (meaning: ‘to emphatically utter one or more Utt(P) in
order to make H recognise that S intends to do P; P is in the interest of H’):
		 – (jmdm.) etwas hoch und heilig versprechen (SI)
	 (4)	 Synonyms of geloben (meaning: ‘to make one or more binding Utt(P) in order
to make H recognise that S intends to do P; P is in the interest of H’):
		 – ein Gelöbnis ablegen (COLL)
Both simple lexicalisations like versprechen, schwören and geloben and their sim-
ple and complex synonyms in German, English and Dutch are used to refer to
situations in which a speaker tells a hearer that he intends to do something which
he considers to be in the interest of that hearer. The situation referred to by verbs
like promise may be represented as follows:
Figure 4.  Conceptual part of the meaning of inform/informieren/meedelen
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 171
		 


	 Att(S,P): 	 want (S (do, P))						 


			 I(S): 		 want (S (recognise (H (Att (S,P)))))
			 Pres(S): 		 in the interest of H (P)
This combination of speaker attitudes represents the common core of the con-
ceptual part of the meaning of versprechen, schwören and geloben and their sim-
ple and complex synonyms. However, the simple and complex lexicalisations of
the promise-field differ with respect to the conceptual and lexical level of their
meaning. German schwören and jmdm. etwas hoch und heilig versprechen, English
swear and Dutch zweren, een dure eed zweren and iets op zijn erewoord verzekeren
lexicalise a higher degree of intensity than promise. Whether a speaker promis-
ing a hearer to do something (P) has a stronger or weaker intention to do P is a
matter of interpretation by the discourse situation speaker; there is no element
of the resource situation which enables us to judge an act of promising as being
more or less intense. I therefore consider the higher degree of intensity expressed
by expressions like swear to be an element of the lexical part of the meaning of
these verbs. German geloben and ein Gelöbnis ablegen, English vow and pledge and
Dutch een gelofte afleggen are used to refer to situations in which a speaker makes
a binding promise within an institutional setting. Since the latter is part of the sit-
uation referred to (the resource situation), it is an element of the conceptual part
of the meaning of expressions like vow and pledge. By contrast, the assessment of
a promise as being binding or not is a matter of interpretation. It is an element
of the discourse situation and hence belongs to the lexical part of the meaning of
verbs like vow and pledge. Figure 5 below shows the similarities and differences
among the simple and complex lexicalisations of the promise-field.
The complex lexicalisations which may be used as synonyms of German
speech act verbs and verbs of communication are not distributed evenly across
all verb fields. Rather, they occur much more frequently in some fields than in
others. Idioms and collocations also differ considerably with respect to their fre-
quency of occurrence in the fields of simple lexicalisations. These differences will
be discussed in the next sections.
4.4.2	 Idioms vs. collocations
A total of 183 collocations have one-word synonyms and could therefore be clas-
sified as belonging to the fields of German speech act verbs and verbs of com-
munication. They represent 90.6% of the total number of 202 collocations which
were taken into account. By contrast, only 54.4% (258 out of 474) of the total
number of idioms (fully idiomatic expressions and semi-idioms) appeared to be
classifiable as belonging to verb fields. Semi-idioms occurred even less frequently
172	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
as synonyms of verbs than did fully idiomatic expressions: Only 27.8% of them
(20 out of 72) could be classified as belonging to verb fields, while 59.2% of the
fully idiomatic expressions (238 out of 402) could be classified in that way. Figure
6 shows the distribution of the different types of complex lexicalisations across
the fields of speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
Figure 5.  Conceptual and lexical part of the meaning of promise/versprechen/beloven
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 173
The distribution of collocations and idioms across the fields of speech act
verbs and verbs of communication shows the following pattern:
	 	 Lexicalisation Pattern I (Idioms vs. Collocations)
		 Collocations mostly lexicalise the same concepts of communication as speech
act verbs and verbs of communication. Idioms often lexicalise concepts of
communication different from those lexicalised by verbs.
The fact that collocations basically lexicalise the same concepts of communica-
tion as verbs does not necessarily imply that collocations and their corresponding
verbs are semantic duplicates. Collocations often differ from their corresponding
verbs not only with respect to their event-structural properties (cf. Glatz 2006)
but also in that they often allow alternations of number and/or passivisation (cf.
Pabst 2004). The distribution of collocations across the fields of speech act verbs
and verbs of communication merely indicates that the semantic differences be-
tween collocations and their corresponding verbs do not concern the concepts
lexicalised by these expressions. My comparison of the much smaller set of Ger-
man, English and Dutch data presented in Chapter 2 suggests that lexicalisation
pattern I also holds for English and Dutch.
4.4.3	 Proportion of idioms and collocations in the fields of speech act
	 verbs and verbs of communication
Different lexical fields show different proportions of idioms and collocations.
While the proportion of idioms and collocations is more or less balanced in the
fields of verbs of communication (47.1% collocations vs. 52.9% idioms), the fields
Figure 6.  Distribution of different types of complex lexicalisations within and outside
the fields of German speech act verbs and verbs of communication
174	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
of speech act verbs contain more idioms than collocations (40.4% collocations
vs. 59.6% idioms). Thus, the proportion of idioms is higher in the fields of verbs
which lexicalise speaker attitudes than in those of verbs which are not specified
with respect to speaker attitudes. Since the fields of verbs of communication con-
tain fewer complex lexicalisations than those of speech act verbs (70 and 371 re-
spectively), the absolute number of idioms and collocations belonging to the fields
of verbs of communication is relatively small: The corpus of German idioms and
collocations contains 37 idioms (fully idiomatic expressions as well as semi-idi-
oms) and 33 collocations which are part of the fields of verbs of communication.
This means that idioms do not necessarily lexicalise speaker attitudes, although
they often do. This finding is at odds with the wide-spread assumption that idi-
oms typically express speaker attitudes (Černyševa 1984: 18; Kühn 1985: 42–44;
Dobrovol’skij 1988: 39–43; Černyševa 1989: 44–45; Schindler 1993: 101–103;
Nunberg, Sag & Wasow 1994: 493 and Burger 1998: 185–186).
Examples of idioms and collocations which are synonyms of verbs of com-
munication are those listed in (5a)–(9a) below. These German idioms and col-
locations lexicalise the same concepts of communication as do their one-word
synonyms erwähnen (English mention), hervorheben (English emphasise), un-
terbrechen (English interrupt), telefonieren (English phone) and anrufen (English
phone up). Apart from lexicalising the same concepts as their one-word counter-
parts, these idioms and collocations are identical with their one-word synonyms
on the lexical level of meaning. Consequently, the idioms and collocations in
(5a)–(9a) are synonyms of their one-word counterparts on the conceptual as well
as the lexical level of meaning. erwähnen, hervorheben and unterbrechen lexicalise
specific aspects of conversational structure, while telefonieren and anrufen lexi-
calise a particular means of communication.
	 (5)	 a.	 Synonyms of erwähnen (English mention)
			 – die Sprache auf etwas bringen (I)
			 – etwas ins Feld führen (I)
			 – etwas in den Raum stellen (I)
			 – etwas zur Sprache bringen (I)
			 – etwas aufs Tapet/Trapez bringen (I)
			 – etwas einfließen lassen (COLL)
	 (6)	 a.	 Synonyms of hervorheben (English stress, emphasise)
			 – etwas ins Blickfeld rücken (I)
			 – einer Sache Nachdruck verleihen (COLL)
	 (7)	 a.	 Synonyms of unterbrechen (English interrupt)
			 – jmdm. über den Mund fahren (I)
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 175
			 – jmdm. ins Wort/in die Rede fallen (I)
			 – jmdm. das Wort/die Rede abschneiden (I)
	 (8)	 a.	 Synonyms of telefonieren (English phone)
			 – an der Strippe hängen (I)
			 – am Telefon hängen (SI)
			 – jmdn. an der Strippe haben (I)
	 (9)	 a.	 Synonyms of anrufen (English phone up)
			 – sich an die Strippe hängen (I)
			 – sich ans Telefon hängen (TI)
Like German idioms, idioms in English and Dutch may but need not lexicalise
speaker attitudes. The German idioms in (5a)–(9a) all have English and Dutch
equivalents. These are listed in (5b)–(9b) and in (5c)–(9c) below.
	 (5)	 b.	 Synonyms of mention
			 – make mention of sth. (COLL)
			 – make reference to sth. (COLL)
	 (6)	 b.	 Synonyms of emphasise
			 – to put/lay/place emphasis/stress on sth. (COLL)
	 (7)	 b.	 Synonyms of interrupt
			 – cut sb. short (I)
	 (8)	 b.	 Synonyms of phone
			 – be hanging on the line (I)
	 (9)	 b.	 Synonyms of phone up
			 – give sb. a ring/tinkle (COLL)
			 – make a call (COLL)
	 (5)	 c.	 Synonyms of vermelden (English mention)
			 – gewag van iets maken (I)
			 – iets ter sprake/te berde brengen (I)
			 – iets op het tapijt brengen (I)
			 – iets in het midden brengen (I)
			 – melding van iets maken (COLL)
	 (6)	 c.	 Synonyms of benadrukken (English emphasise)
			 – de nadruk/klemtoon op iets leggen (COLL)
	 (7)	 c.	 Synonyms of onderbreken (English interrupt)
			 – iem. in de rede vallen (I)
	 (8)	 c.	 Synonyms of telefoneren (English phone)
			 – iem. aan de lijn hebben (I)
			 – aan de telefoon hangen (I)
176	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 (9)	 c.	 Synonyms of opbellen (English phone up)
			 – iem. een telefoontje geven (COLL)
4.4.4	 Proportion of idioms and collocations in the main classes
	 of speech act verbs
The distribution of idioms and collocations across the fields of German speech act
verbs has also shown that the proportion of idioms and collocations is different in
the five main classes of speech act verbs (representatives, directives, commissives,
expressives and declaratives).
Declaratives
The classes of declarative predicates show the most salient disproportion of idi-
oms and collocations. Thirty out of the 34 complex lexicalisations which could
be classified as belonging to these classes are collocations. Collocations represent
88.2% and idioms only 11.8% of the complex lexicalisations occurring inside the
fields of declarative verbs. The disproportion of idioms and collocations in these
fields may be due to properties of the situations referred to by declarative verbs.
Declaratives are used to refer to situations in which a particular institutional fact
is brought about by a speaker who has the authority to do so, because he is a
representative of a particular institution. This type of situation does not involve
any particular speaker attitudes, except of course the speaker’s intention to bring
about a particular institutional fact. The observation that idioms are only rarely
used to refer to this kind of situation appears to confirm the view that they typi-
cally express speaker attitudes. However, as I have shown in the previous section,
this wide-spread view about the meaning of idioms is not confirmed by the pat-
tern of occurrence of complex lexicalisations in the fields of verbs of communi-
cation, which contain many more idioms than collocations. This suggests that
idioms do not necessarily express speaker attitudes, even if many of them do. I
shall come back to this issue below.
Directives & commissives
The classes of directive verbs also contain many more collocations than idioms,
but the disproportion between them is not as salient as it is in the classes of de-
clarative verbs. 69 of the complex lexicalisations which may be classified as be-
longing to these classes are collocations. They represent 72.6% of the 95 complex
lexicalisations occurring in the fields of directive speech act verbs. The remaining
26 expressions are all fully idiomatic expressions and represent 27.4% of the total
number of complex lexicalisations occurring in these fields. The corpus contained
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 177
no semi-idioms which might have been classified as belonging to the classes of
directive speech act verbs. The idioms and collocations occurring in the different
classes of directive speech act verbs are distributed homogeneously across these
verb classes. In none of these were they either under- or over-represented.
Idioms and collocations are relatively rare in the classes of commissive verbs.
The proportion of idioms and collocations is balanced in these fields. Idioms and
collocations each represent exactly 50% of the 44 complex lexicalisations occur-
ring in these fields.
On the whole, the pattern of occurrence of idioms and collocations in the
fields of directive and commissive verbs suggests that speaker attitudes concern-
ing a future action of H are more often lexicalised by collocations than by idioms,
while speaker attitudes concerning a future action of S are lexicalised by colloca-
tions as often as by idioms.
Representatives
Seventy of the complex lexicalisations which were part of the German corpus
could be classified as belonging to the classes of representative speech act verbs.
Only 19 of these (27.1%) are collocations. The remaining 72.9% are either fully
idiomatic expressions or semi-idioms. Additionally, idioms are not distributed
homogeneously across the different classes of representative verbs. They are par-
ticularly frequent in the field containing verbs like lügen (English lie), flunkern
and schwindeln (both corresponding to English fib). These verbs are used to refer
to situations in which a speaker who does not take P to be true and assumes that
H does not know P utters one or more Utt(P) with the intention that H take P
to be true. Situations like these may be referred to not only by verbs like lügen,
flunkern and schwindeln, but also by a large number of fully idiomatic or semi-idi-
omatic expressions, many of which lexicalise a higher degree of insincerity than
lügen, cf. examples (10a)–(11a):
	(10)	 a.	 Synonyms of lügen:
			 – jmdm. einen Bären aufbinden (I)
			 – jmdn. über den Löffel barbieren/balbieren (I)
			 – jmdm. blauen Dunst/ein X für ein U vormachen (I)
			 – einen vom Pferd/vom Wald erzählen (I)
			 – einen Türken bauen (I)
	(11)	 a.	 lügen + Intensification:
			 – das Blaue vom Himmel lügen (SI)
			 – jmdm. die Hucke/Jacke voll lügen (SI)
			 – lügen, dass sich die Balken biegen (SI)
			 – lügen wie gedruckt (SI)
178	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Idioms which may be used as synonyms of (to) lie also exist in English and in
Dutch, but there are not so many of them in these languages as in German. This
suggests that the abundance of idioms used as synonyms of lie may well be a pecu-
liarity of German. The English and Dutch counterparts of the expressions in (10a)
and (11a) are listed in (10b)–(11c) below:
	(10)	 b.	 Synonyms of lie:
			 ∅ (tell sb. a lie is a collocation)
	(11)	 b.	 lie + Intensification:
			 – lie one’s head off (I)
	(10)	 c.	 Synonyms of liegen (English lie):
			 – iem. iets op de mouw spelden (I)
	(11)	 c.	 liegen + Intensification:
			 – liegen alsof het gedrukt staat (SI)
			 – liegen dat men barst/dat men het zelf gelooft/dat men zwart ziet (SI)
Expressives
The classes of expressive speech act verbs contain even more idioms and conse-
quently also less collocations than those of representative verbs. Idioms represent
92.2% of the total number of 128 complex lexicalisations which may be used as
synonyms (on the conceptual level of meaning) of expressive speech act verbs.
Only 10 of them (7.8%) are collocations. The distribution of idioms in these fields
is also highly irregular, with idioms clustering mainly in a few classes of expressives
lexicalising negative evaluations. The class of expressions containing verbs like vor-
werfen, vorhalten (both English reproach) and zurechtweisen (English reprimand),
for example, includes 49 idioms and 2 collocations. Verbs like vorwerfen, vorhalten
and zurechtweisen are used to refer to situations in which a speaker evaluates a past
action of a hearer negatively. These situations may also be referred to by the idioms
in (12a) which were selected from the 49 idioms occurring in these fields:
	(12)	 a.	 Synonyms of vorwerfen, vorhalten and zurechtweisen:
			 – jmdm. etw. aufs Brot/Butterbrot schmieren/streichen (I)
			 – jmdn. zur Brust nehmen (I)
			 – jmdm. auf die Finger klopfen (I)
			 – jmdm. die Flötentöne beibringen (I)
			 – jmdm. eine Gardinenpredigt/Standpauke halten (I)
			 – jmdn. ins Gebet nehmen (I)
			 – jmdm. etw. an den Kopf werfen (I)
			 – jmdm. den Kopf waschen (I)
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 179
			 – jmdm. etw. unter die Nase reiben (I)
			 – jmdm. ein paar Takte sagen/erzählen (I)
			 …
Idioms also cluster in the fields of resultative verbs expressing a negative evalua-
tion. These verbs are used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses a neg-
ative evaluation of a past action or quality of the hearer in order to damage that
hearer’s social prestige. In German, such situations may be referred to not only by
verbs such as diffamieren (English defame), diskreditieren (English discredit) and
verunglimpfen (English slander), but also by the idioms in (13a):
	(13)	 a.	 Synonyms of diffamieren, diskreditieren etc.:
			 – jmdn. ins Gerede/in Misskredit/Verruf bringen (I)
			 – jmdn./etw. in den Kot/Dreck ziehen/treten (I)
			 – jmdn. mit Kot/Dreck/Schmutz bewerfen/besudeln (I)
			 – jmdn. schlecht/madig machen (I)
			 – jmdn./etw. durch die Scheiße/den Staub ziehen/zerren (I)
			 – jmdn. /etw. in den Schmutz/Staub zerren/ziehen/treten (I)
			 – jmdm. etw. ans Zeug flicken (I)
Idioms finally cluster in the class of verbs like angeben (English boast), which
lexicalise both a positive evaluation by a resource situation speaker and a negative
one by a discourse situation speaker (cf. Chapter 1). Such a combination of evalu-
ations is lexicalised not only by angeben and its synonyms prahlen, protzen and
aufschneiden, but also by the idioms in (14a):
	(14)	 a.	 Synonyms of angeben, prahlen, protzen, aufschneiden:
			 – sich in die Brust werfen (I)
			 – angeben wie ein Wald voll Affen/eine Tüte Mücken (SI)
			 – (sich) (mit etw.) dick(e) tun/sich (mit etw.) dick(e) machen (I)
			 – kräftig/mächtig ins Horn stoßen (I)
			 – (kräftig) in die Trompete stoßen (I)
			 – dicke/große Töne reden/sprechen/spucken (I)
			 – große Sprüche machen/klopfen (I)
			 – große Reden schwingen/führen (I)
			 – den Mund (zu) voll nehmen (I)
			 – eine Stange angeben (SI)
On the whole, the large majority of the idioms occurring inside the fields of ex-
pressive speech act verbs (79 out of 118, i.e. 66.9%) cluster in the fields of expres-
sives like vorwerfen (reproach), in those of resultative expressives like diffamieren
(defame) and in those of expressives like angeben (boast). The remaining 39 idioms
180	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
are distributed more or less evenly across the fields of other expressives lexicalis-
ing a negative evaluation (e.g. meckern and tadeln; English grumble and reprimand
respectively), those of expressives lexicalising a positive evaluation (e.g. loben and
befürworten; English praise and advocate respectively) and those of expressives
lexicalising emotions such as anger (e.g. schimpfen; English scold) or sorrow (e.g.
klagen; English complain). Each of these fields contain only a few idioms.
Idioms which may be used as synonyms of vorwerfen, diffamieren and ange-
ben are less frequent in English and Dutch than in German. This suggests that the
abundance of idioms in the lexical fields containing these verbs may well be typi-
cal of German when compared to the other two languages. The English and Dutch
counterparts of vorwerfen, diffamieren and angeben are listed in (12b)–(14c):
	(12)	 b.	 Synonyms of reproach, tell off etc.
			 – give sb. the (rough) edge of one’s tongue (I)
			 – give sb. a piece of one’s mind (I)
			 – haul sb. over the coals (I)
			 – take sb. to task (I)
			 – give sb. a talking-to/telling-off/dressing-down (COLL)
	(13)	 b.	 Synonyms of defame, discredit, slander
			 – drag sb./sb’s name through the mud/the muck/the mire (I)
			 – sling/throw/fling mud/dirt at sb. (I)
			 – blacken sb’s name/character (I)
			 – bring sb. into discredit/disrepute (COLL)
	(14)	 b.	 Synonyms of boast/brag/show off
			 – blow one’s own trumpet (I)
			 – give oneself airs (I)
	(12)	 c.	 Synonyms of verwijten, terechtwijzen etc. (English reproach, tell off)
			 – iem. op zijn flikker/mieter/donder geven (I)
			 – iem. een (flinke) uitbrander geven (I)
			 – iem. onder handen nemen (I)
			 – iem. hard vallen over iets (I)
			 – iem. iets naar het hoofd slingeren (I)
			 – iem op zijn kop/lazer geven (I)
			 – iem de les spellen (I)
			 – iem. de wetten lezen (I)
			 – iem. zijn vet geven (I)
			 – iem. op de vingers tikken (I)
			 – het vingertje opheffen tegen iem. (I)
			 – iem. iets voor de voeten werpen (I)
			 – een hartig/ernstig/stevig woordje met iem. spreken (I)
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 181
			 – iem. iets onder de neus wrijven (I)
			 – iem. op zijn nummer zetten (I)
			 – iem. de oren wassen (I)
			 – iem. tot de orde roepen (I)
	(13)	 c.	 Synonyms of belasteren, kwaadspreken (English defame, slander)
			 – iem. in een kwaad daglicht stellen (I)
			 – met modder/rotte eieren/vuil gooien (I)
			 – iem./iemands naam door de modder sleuren (I)
			 – iem./iemands naam door het slijk halen (I)
	(14)	 c.	 Synonyms of opscheppen etc. (English boast)
			 – een hoge borst opzetten (I)
			 – de borst hoogdragen (I)
			 – zich op de borts slaan/kloppen (I)
			 – dik/duur doen (I)
Idioms do not occur at all in the lexical fields containing expressives like gratu-
lieren (English congratulate) and danken (English thank). These are used to refer
to situations in which a speaker expresses his joy about a state of affairs or event
concerning H (gratulieren) or about something which H has done for S (danken)
in order to be socially regarded as someone who is glad of the positive effects aris-
ing from P to H (gratulieren) or S (danken). In doing so, S complies with a social
convention or obligation. Idioms are also lacking from the lexical field contain-
ing the verb kondolieren (English condole) and from that containing the verbs
grüßen and begrüßen (English greet and welcome respectively). kondolieren is used
to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses his regret about P in order to
be socially regarded as someone who sympathises with H. In doing so, S fulfils a
social obligation. grüßen and begrüßen are used to refer to a social ritual in which
a speaker utters to a hearer that he takes notice of and socially acknowledges that
hearer’s presence. On the whole, idioms are completely lacking from the fields of
verbs which are used to refer to social conventions or rituals.
Figure 7 below summarises the patterns of occurrence of idioms and colloca-
tions in the lexical fields of the main types of speech act verbs.
The distribution of idioms and collocations within the fields of speech act
verbs and verbs of communication shows that some of the common views about
the meaning of these expressions have to be modified:
–	 The pattern of occurrence of idioms and collocations in the fields of the five
main types of speech act verbs confirms the view that idioms typically lexi-
calise speaker attitudes. Obviously, idioms which may be used as synonyms of
speech act verbs lexicalise the same speaker attitudes as their one-word syn-
182	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
onyms. Idioms rarely occur in the fields of declaratives and those of expres-
sives like greet, congratulate, thank and condole. Collocations are much more
frequent than idioms in these fields. Declaratives do not lexicalise speaker
attitudes other than the speaker’s intention to bring about a particular institu-
tional fact. Expressives like greet, congratulate, condole and thank are used to
refer to the utterance of a speaker expressing joy or sorrow about P in order to
comply with a social convention and not necessarily because he/she actually
feels joy or sorrow because of P. Neither declaratives nor expressives like greet,
congratulate, thank and condole lexicalise speaker attitudes in the way other
speech act verbs do. The fact that idioms are almost absent from these fields
supports the view that the lexicalisation of speaker attitudes is a prominent
characteristic of the meaning of idioms. However, the occurrence of idioms
in the fields of verbs of communication contradicts the view that speaker at-
titudes are a necessary element of their meaning. The idioms occurring in the
fields of verbs of communication do not express speaker attitudes any more
than their one-word synonyms do.
–	 Idioms referring to speech acts lexicalise the same types of evaluations as
speech act verbs. Explicit evaluations by a resource situation speaker are lexi-
calised by idioms like take sb. to task and give sb. a piece of one’s mind. These
idioms lexicalise a negative evaluation of P by a resource situation speaker, an
evaluation also lexicalised by verbs like reproach and tell off. Explicit evalua-
tions by a discourse situation speaker are part of the meaning of idioms like
blow one’s own trumpet and give onself airs, which may be used as synonyms
(on the conceptual level of meaning) of verbs like boast, brag and show off. Im-
plicit evaluations which have the status of lexical presuppositions are lexicalised
by the German idiom Alarm schlagen and the Dutch idioms alarm slaan and
Figure 7.  Distribution of idioms and collocations in the fields of the five main types of
German speech act verbs
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 183
de noodklok luiden (‘sound the alarm bell’), which may be used as synonyms
of warn. The correponding English expression sound the alarm is a free com-
bination of words, because the verb sound (in the sense of ‘give sb. a warning’)
may be combined with a wide range of nominal expressions synonymous with
warning (e.g. sound the alarm/a note of caution/the death knell etc.). Implicit
evaluations which do not have the status of lexical presuppositions are part of the
meaning of idioms like give sb. one’s word, which may be used as a synonym
of promise. Like promise, give sb. one’s word lexicalises the presupposition of a
resource situation speaker that P is in the interest of H.
–	 Though many idioms lexicalise speaker attitudes, they do not lexicalise any
type of speaker attitude. The abundance of (German) idioms in the fields of
verbs like vorwerfen (reproach), diffamieren (defame) and angeben (boast)
shows that they often express either a negative evaluation of a past action or
a quality of H or a combination of a positive evaluation by a resource situa-
tion speaker and a negative one by a discourse situation speaker. Collocations
only rarely lexicalise such evaluations. Additionally, the scarcity of idioms in
the fields of directive speech act verbs shows that idioms only rarely lexicalise
speaker attitudes which concern a future action of H. These speaker attitudes
are lexicalised by collocations rather than idioms. These observations seem to
confirm the view that idioms tend to lexicalise negative rather than positive
evaluations (cf. Fleischer 1997: 179; Burger 1998: 79; Pabst 2004: 81). However,
the overall pattern of occurrence of idioms in the fields of speech act verbs
does not provide conclusive evidence to support such a view. Firstly, idioms do
not lexicalise any type of negative evaluation. They occur much less frequently,
for example, in the fields of verbs like tadeln (reprimand), meckern (grumble)
and beschönigen (whitewash) than in those of vorwerfen (reproach), diffamieren
(defame) and angeben (boast). Secondly, the negative evaluations lexicalised by
idioms are also lexicalised by verbs (e.g. zurechtweisen, vorwerfen, vorhalten,
diffamieren, verleumden, angeben, prahlen, protzen). The idioms which may be
used as synonyms of these verbs do not lexicalise any type of negative evalua-
tion which may not also be lexicalised by verbs. This means that the lexicalisa-
tion of negative evaluations is not an idiom-specific property. Thirdly, there
are not only more idioms but also more verbs lexicalising negative evalua-
tions than such lexicalising positive evaluations. Thus, the frequency of idioms
in the fields of expressions lexicalising negative evaluations merely reflects a
tendency which concerns communicative expressions in general. The abun-
dance of expressions lexicalising negative evaluations may be due to the fact
that these expressions are used to refer to patterns of behaviour which deviate
from social norms. Such patterns of behaviour are evaluated negatively and
are therefore regarded as being marked. Those which conform to social norms
184	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
are evaluated positively and are hence regarded as being unmarked. Concepts
of marked behaviour appear to get lexicalised by a wider variety of expressions
than such of unmarked behaviour.
I have been concerned so far with idioms which are synonymous with speech act
verbs or verbs of communication with respect to the lexical as well as the concep-
tual level of their meaning. Apart from idioms like these, the fields of German
speech act verbs and verbs of communication contain a few idioms which do not
have one-word counterparts. These idioms are used to refer to the same kind of
resource situation referred to by the verbs belonging to the same lexical field. They
are synonyms of these verbs with respect to the conceptual level but not regarding
the lexical level of their meaning. Insofar as these idioms do not possess one-word
counterparts, they may be regarded as fillers of gaps in the word inventory.
4.4.5	 Idioms and collocations as fillers of gaps in the inventory of speech
	 act verbs and verbs of communication
The following (semi-)idioms have no one-word counterparts in German and may
therefore be regarded as fillers of gaps:
	(15)	 den Faden verlieren (I)
		 vom Hölzchen aufs Stöckchen/vom Hundertsten ins Tausendste kommen (I)
		 sich ins Uferlose/Weite verlieren (I)
	(16)	 sich (gegenseitig) die Bälle zuwerfen/zuspielen (I)
	(17)	 eine feuchte Aussprache haben (SI)
	(18)	 sich an/bei etwas die Zunge abbrechen/zerbrechen (I)
The idioms in (15) (den Faden verlieren, vom Hölzchen aufs Stöckchen/vom Hun-
dersten ins Tausendste kommen and sich ins Uferlose/Weite verlieren) may be clas-
sified as belonging to the field of verbs of communication used to refer to situa-
tions in which a speaker utters something (P) and thereby causes a change in the
structure of the conversation. Though such situations may also be referred to by
verbs like andeuten (hint), erwähnen (mention), aufgreifen (take up), anmerken
(remark), hervorheben (emphasise) etc. and their complex synonyms, verbs with
the same meaning as the idioms in (15) are absent. The idioms in (15) all mean
‘to depart more and more from a topic currently under discussion’. abschweifen
(digress) is only a near-synonym of these idioms, because it means ‘to utter some-
thing which is not directly related to the topic being discussed’ and thus lacks
the component ‘more and more’ which is an essential part of the meaning of the
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 185
idioms in (15). Insofar as there are no German verbs having the same meaning as
the idioms in (15), these may be considered to be fillers of lexical gaps.
The idiom sich (gegenseitig) die Bälle zuwerfen/zuspielen in (16) means ‘to
make one or more utterances fitting another person’s utterances in order to turn
the conversation to one’s own advantage and to the advantage of that other person’.
It belongs to the group of communicative expressions used to refer to situations
in which one or more speakers talk to one or more hearers. The same class of ex-
pressions also comprises verbs like besprechen (discuss), debattieren (debate), sich
streiten (argue) and sich unterhalten (converse) as well as the simple and complex
synonyms of these. Since none of these simple and complex lexicalisations have
the same meaning as sich die Bälle (gegenseitig) zuwerfen/zuspielen, this idiom fills
a gap in the inventory of German speech act verbs.
The idioms in (17) and (18) are used to refer to situations in which a speaker
talks with a particular articulation: eine feuchte Aussprache haben means ‘to inad-
vertently spit while speaking’ and sich an/bei etwas die Zunge abbrechen ‘to have
difficulty in pronouncing something’. Verbs like lispeln (lisp), murmeln (mutter),
näseln (speak through one’s nose), nuscheln (mumble) and zischen (hiss) are also
used to refer to a particular manner of articulation, but none of these have the
same meaning as the idioms in (17) and (18). For this reason, eine feuchte Aus-
sprache haben and sich an/bei etwas die Zunge abbrechen may be regarded as fillers
of gaps in the inventory of German verbs of communication.
Intensifying expressions like those in (19)–(21) may also be regarded as fill-
ers of gaps in the inventory of German speech act verbs, because they lexicalise a
degree of strength not lexicalised by verbs:
	(19)	 das Blaue vom Himmel lügen (SI)
		 jmdm. die Hucke/Jacke voll lügen (SI)
		 lügen, dass sich die Balken biegen (SI)
		 lügen wie gedruckt (SI)
	(20)	 jmdn. über den grünen Klee loben (SI)
		 sich in Lobreden ergehen (SI)
		 jmdn./etwas in den höchsten Tönen loben (SI)
	(21)	 aus voller Lunge schreien (SI)
		 schreien wie am Spieß/wie ein gestochenes Schwein/wie eine angestochene
Sau (SI)
Like the verbs lie and fib and the collocations tell a lie and tell a fib, the expressions
in (19) are used to refer to situations in which a speaker who does not take P to
be true and assumes that H does not know P, utters one or more Utt(P) with the
intention that H take P to be true. A discourse situation speaker choosing one of
186	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
the semi-idioms in (19) rather than a verb or collocation to refer to this particular
type of situation indicates that he considers the resource situation speaker to be
particularly insincere. The idioms in (19) lack one-word counterparts. The same
is true of the semi-idioms in (20) and (21) which mean ‘to emphatically praise
somebody’ and ‘to scream very loudly’ respectively.
The corpus of German idioms and collocations comprises only 25 phrasemes
which fill gaps in the fields of speech act verbs and verbs of communication. Since
these represent only 3.7% of the 676 complex lexicalisations which were part of
the German corpus, the question of whether complex lexicalisations may be re-
garded as fillers of lexical gaps may now provisionally be answered as follows:
		 Lexicalisation Pattern II (Complex Lexicalisations as fillers of gaps in the
fields of speech act verbs and verbs of communication):
	 	 Complex lexicalisations only rarely fill gaps in the fields of speech act verbs
or verbs of communication.
The fact that some of the collocations and many of the idioms which were part
of the German corpus could not be classified as belonging to any of the classes of
speech act verbs and verbs of communication suggests that there is still a consid-
erable number of phrasemes which do indeed lexicalise concepts of communica-
tion not lexicalised by verbs. These fill gaps on the conceptual level of meaning.
In the present study, communication concepts have been defined in terms of a
situation which may or may not be referred to by verbs. Those verbs used to refer
to the same type of resource situation have been considered to constitute a lexical
field. Gaps on the conceptual level of meaning would therefore not appear as gaps
within verb fields. In the next section, I shall deal with complex lexicalisations
which appear outside the lexical fields constituted by verbs.
4.5	 Idioms and collocations lacking one-word synonyms
A total of 235 of the complex lexicalisations which were part of the German cor-
pus have no one-word synonyms. These complex lexicalisations represent 34.8%
of the total number of complex lexicalisations considered. 164 of them (69.9%)
are fully idiomatic expressions, 52 are semi-idioms (22.1%) and 19 of them (8.0%)
are collocations. Figure 8 below illustrates the proportion of fully idiomatic ex-
pressions, semi-idioms and collocations occurring outside the fields of German
speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
These percentages indicate that there is a considerable number of complex
lexicalisations whose meaning cannot or only partly be described by the con-
ceptual system discussed in Chapter 2. This is true especially of idioms, whereas
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 187
collocations mostly have a one-word counterpart and hence their meaning may
be described in the same way as that of speech act verbs and verbs of communica-
tion. Complex lexicalisations which do not have one-word synonyms belong to
one of the following three types: complex lexicalisations which expand the mean-
ing of speech act verbs and verbs of communication, such which constitute hy-
brid fields of communicative expressions and such which establish lexical fields of
their own. These will be dealt with separately in the next three sections.
4.5.1	 Complex lexicalisations expanding the meaning of speech act verbs
	 and verbs of communication
Some complex lexicalisations have meanings which comprise the conceptual con-
tent of the meaning of a corresponding verb as well as additional conceptual or
lexical components. Since these additional components are not part of the mean-
ing of the corresponding verbs, phrasemes lexicalising such components expand
the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of communication. The expressions in
(22)–(24) are examples of such phrasemes:
	(22)	 jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr setzen (I)
		 jmdm. den Mund wässrig machen (I)
		 jmdm. den Zahn ziehen (I)
	(23)	 seinem Herzen Luft machen (I)
		 jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben (I)
		 die alte Platte laufen lassen/spielen (I)
Figure 8.  Proportion of fully idiomatic expressions, semi-idioms and collocations
lacking one-word synonyms
188	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
		 die alte/die gleiche/dieselbe Walze auflegen/spielen (I)
		 immer (wieder) dasselbe Lied singen (I)
	(24)	 jmdm. etw. auf den Kopf zusagen (I)
		 etw. auf den Tisch des Hauses legen (I)
Though the meaning of the idioms in (22)–(24) contains elements which are also
part of the meaning of mitteilen (communicate), the meaning of these idioms is
more complex than that of verbs like mitteilen. The meaning of the idioms in
(22)–(24) contains components not included in the meaning of verbs like mit-
teilen, inform and tell. The idioms in (22) are used to refer to a speech act in which
a speaker informs a hearer of something (P) thereby bringing about a certain
psychological effect on the hearer. Specifically, jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr setzen
and jmdm. den Mund wässrig machen are used to refer to speech acts in which a
speaker informs a hearer of P and thereby causes the hearer to have a particular
wish. Apart from lexicalising a particular result (a wish of the hearer), the idiom
jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr setzen also lexicalises an evaluation of that result by the
discourse situation speaker. A discourse situation speaker describing the utter-
ance of a resource situation speaker by means of the idiom jmdm. einen Floh ins
Ohr setzen indicates that he/she considers the wish of the hearer brought about by
the utterance of the resource situation speaker to be impossible to fulfil. By con-
trast, jmdm. den Mund wässrig machen does not lexicalise any such evaluation,
and jmdm. den Zahn ziehen is used to refer to acts in which a speaker informs a
hearer about P and thereby causes that hearer to be disillusioned. Though the idi-
oms in (22) lexicalise the same speaker attitudes as those lexicalised by verbs like
mitteilen, they also lexicalise a particular result which is not part of the meaning
of mitteilen. Because of that, they expand the meaning of verbs like mitteilen. The
result lexicalised by the idioms in (22) and the evaluation lexicalised by jmdm.
einen Floh ins Ohr setzen are not part of the resource situation. Because of that,
they are elements of the lexical rather than the conceptual level of meaning.
Like the idioms in (22), those in (23) lexicalise all the speaker attitudes which
are also part of the meaning of verbs like mitteilen, but they differ from those
in (22) in that they additionally lexicalise a specific propositional content rather
than a particular result. seinem Herz Luft machen is used to refer to situations in
which a speaker informs a hearer of something which depresses him. The idioms
die alte Platte laufen lassen/spielen, die alte/die gleiche/dieselbe Walze auflegen/
spielen and immer (wieder) dasselbe Lied singen lexicalise a propositional content
specified as something well-known. jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben is
used to refer to speech acts in which a speaker informs a hearer of something dis-
agreeable to that hearer. In addition to the speaker attitudes lexicalised by verbs
like mitteilen, the idioms in (23) all lexicalise a specific propositional content. The
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 189
idioms seinem Herzen Luft machen, die alte Platte laufen lassen/spielen and die
alte/die gleiche/dieselbe Walze auflegen/spielen, differ from jmdm. eine bittere Pille
zu schlucken geben in that they may only be used to refer to speech acts consisting
of several utterances. immer (wieder) dasselbe Lied singen additionally lexicalises
the aspectual property ‘iterative’. Since verbs like mitteilen do not lexicalise speci-
fications of the propositional content or components like [+several utterances] or
[+iterative], the idioms in (23) expand the meaning of these verbs. The compo-
nents [+specification (P)], [+several utterances] and [+iterative] are elements of
the resource situation and hence elements of the conceptual part of the meaning
of the idioms in (23).
jmdm. etwas auf den Kopf zusagen means ‘tell sb. sth. in a direct way’, and
etwas auf den Tisch des Hauses legen means ‘to formally inform sb.’ In addition
to the speaker attitudes lexicalised by verbs like mitteilen, both idioms lexicalise
a particular manner of informing somebody of something. Since verbs like mit-
teilen do not lexicalise a particular mode of informing somebody of something,
the meaning of the idioms in (24) goes beyond that of verbs like mitteilen. The
component [+Manner] lexicalised by the idioms in (24) is an element of the con-
ceptual level of meaning.
Idioms expanding the meaning of verbs like mitteilen do exist not only in
German but also in English and Dutch. In addition to the speaker attitudes lexi-
calised by inform, the English idiom put ideas into somebody’s head lexicalises
the result of H having a particular wish as well as an evaluation by a discourse
situation speaker who considers H’s wish to be impossible to fulfil. The idiom
sing/play the same old tune is used to refer to situations in which a speaker repeat-
edly informs a hearer of something the latter already knows. Thus, put ideas into
somebody’s head and sing/play the same old tune expand the meaning of verbs
like inform. Dutch altijd/steeds hetzelfde liedje zingen means the same as English
sing/play the same old tune and German immer wieder dasselbe Lied singen, and
zijn hart luchten/uitstorten has the same meaning as German seinem Herzen Luft
machen. Both Dutch idioms expand the meaning of verbs like meedelen. Figure
9 below shows how the meaning of verbs like informieren, inform and meedelen
may be expanded by German, English and Dutch idioms respectively.
Of the 235 complex lexicalisations which cannot be classified as belonging to
the fields of speech act verbs and verbs of communication, 189 (80.4%) fulfil the
function of expanding the meaning of verbs. Of these, 173 (91.5%) are either fully
idiomatic expressions or semi-idioms, with only 16 (8.5%) of them being colloca-
tions. Idioms and collocations expanding the meaning of speech act verbs and
verbs of communication may be regarded as fillers of gaps either on the conceptu-
al or on the lexical level of meaning. Evidently, complex lexicalisations which ex-
pand the meaning of verbs are semantically more complex than the verbs whose
190	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
meaning they expand. This does not mean, though, that the concepts lexicalised
by these idioms and collocations are generally more complex than those lexi-
calised by verbs. There are also many verbs which expand the meaning of other
verbs in much the same way as the idioms in (22)–(24) expand the meaning of
mitteilen. It is therefore doubtful whether the lexicalisation of complex concepts
is indeed one of the functions of idioms as suggested by Fellbaum:
Figure 9.  Idioms expanding the meaning of mitteilen/inform/meedelen
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 191
Some idioms pose formal, syntactic problems and express complex concepts that
are not expressible by means of the standard lexical and syntactic categories, in-
cluding those represented in WordNet. Other idioms are formally unremarkable
but express concepts that cannot easily be connected to any of the concepts in
the semantic network. Perhaps one function of idioms (and one reason for their
frequency and their persistence over time) is to provide for the pre-coded lexical-
ized expression of complex concepts and ideas that do not exist as units in the
language and would have to be composed by speakers.  (Fellbaum 1998: 56–57)
Examples of verbs expanding the meaning of other verbs are berichten (report)
and benachrichtigen (notify), which belong to the same lexical field as mitteilen
(inform). Both lexicalise the same speaker attitudes as do verbs like mitteilen, but
they differ from these in that they lexicalise additional conceptual components.
berichten may only be used to refer to speech acts consisting of several utterances,
while benachrichtigen lexicalises the speaker’s presupposition that knowing P is
in the interest of H. Since these components are not part of the meaning of verbs
like mitteilen, both berichten and benachrichtigen expand the meaning of verbs
like mitteilen in much the same way as the idioms in (22)–(24) do. The concepts
lexicalised by berichten and benachrichtigen are neither more nor less complex
than those lexicalised by idioms like jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben
and etwas auf den Tisch des Hauses legen. berichten and benachrichtigen as well
as jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben and etwas auf den Tisch des Hauses
legen lexicalise exactly one conceptual component not included in the meaning of
mitteilen. Idioms like die alte Platte laufen lassen/spielen are more complex than
berichten, benachrichtigen, jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben or etwas auf
den Tisch des Hauses legen, because they add more than one component to the
meaning of mitteilen. These examples show that idioms and collocations which
expand the meaning of verbs do not necessarily lexicalise concepts which are
more complex than those lexicalised by verbs. Rather, the concepts they lexical-
ise are more complex than those lexicalised by those verbs whose meaning they
expand. Figure 10 below illustrates the level of complexity of the concepts lexi-
calised by English report and notify, German berichten and benachrichtigen, and
Dutch berichten and verwittigen. These verbs expand the meaning of verbs like in-
form, mitteilen and meedelen respectively. The meaning of the English expressions
delineate and give particulars of sth. is more complex than that of either report or
notify. Both delineate and give particulars of sth. lexicalise a specification of P as
detailed information which is not part of the meaning of verbs like report, relate
and describe, whose meaning they expand (cf. Figure 10).
Speech act verbs such as berichten and benachrichtigen (and their English
and Dutch counterparts) expand the meaning of mitteilen in much the same way
as the idioms in (22)–(24) do. The only difference between verbs like berichten
192	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
and benachrichtigen on the one hand and idioms like jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu
schlucken geben on the other is that they add different components to the mean-
ing of mitteilen. Yet, verbs and idioms do not differ with respect to the way in
Figure 10.  Verbs and idioms expanding the meaning of report/berichten (G.)/
berichten (D.)
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 193
which they expand the meaning of verbs. The components added to the meaning
of verbs all fall into one of the following categories: [Specification of P], [Man-
ner], [Result], [Iterativity], [Several Utt(P)] and [Evaluation]. Since these com-
ponents may be added to the meaning of verbs by idioms as well as by other
verbs, they are not characteristic of the meaning of idioms only. Idioms typically
lexicalise specific combinations of the meaning of certain verbs and certain ad-
ditional conceptual or lexical components. There is no German verb, for example
which lexicalises a combination of the meaning of mitteilen and a component
like [+Result: H disillusioned]. This combination is lexicalised only by the idiom
jmdm. den Zahn ziehen. The idioms in (22) (jmdm. den Mund wässrig machen,
jmdm. den Zahn ziehen and jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr setzen) lexicalise lexical
components which are not part of the meaning of verbs like mitteilen. Since these
idioms have no one-word synonyms, they fill gaps on the lexical level of meaning.
The idioms in (23) (jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben etc.) and those in
(24) (jmdm. etwas auf den Kopf zusagen etc.) lexicalise conceptual components
which are not part of the meaning of verbs like mitteilen. Insofar as these idioms
lexicalise concepts which are not lexicalised by verbs, they may be regarded as
fillers of gaps on the conceptual level of meaning. These idioms are used to refer
to situations which are more complex than those referred to by the verbs whose
meaning they expand. Specifically, the situations referred to by the idioms in (23)
and (24) are more complex than those referred to by verbs like mitteilen. Howev-
er, the situations referred to by idioms like these are not generally more complex
than those referred to by speech act verbs or verbs of communication. Neither do
complex lexicalisations which expand the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs
of communication necessarily lexicalise evaluations. If they do, the evaluations
lexicalised are not of a different type than those which are part of the meaning of
verbs. Particularly, the evaluations lexicalised by complex lexicalisations expand-
ing the meaning of verbs are either explicit evaluations by a discourse situation
speaker (jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr setzen) or implicit evaluations by a resource
situation speaker (jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben).
4.5.2	 Complex lexicalisations constituting hybrid classes
	 of communicative expressions
Only 20 (i.e. 8.5%) of the 235 complex lexicalisations which do not have one-word
synonyms lexicalise speaker attitudes which are part of different resource situa-
tion types. These complex lexicalisations constitute hybrid classes of communica-
tive expressions, whose members combine semantic features of different types of
speech act verbs or verbs of communication. Of the complex lexicalisations which
194	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
constitute hybrid classes, 18 are fully idiomatic expressions, one is a semi-idiom
and one is a collocation. The following German idioms are examples of complex
lexicalisations constituting hybrid classes of communicative expressions:
	(25)	 ein/sein Garn spinnen (I)
	(26)	 sich mit fremden Federn schmücken (I)
	(27)	 die Werbetrommel schlagen/rühren (I)
The idiom ein/sein Garn spinnen (literally ‘spin a/one’s yarn’) in (25) is the Ger-
man equivalent of the English idiom spin a yarn and the Dutch idiom fabeltjes/
sprookjes vertellen (literally ‘tell fairy tales’). Its meaning may be paraphrased as ‘to
tell fanciful stories’. Like its English and Dutch counterparts, the German idiom
ein/sein Garn spinnen lexicalises speaker attitudes which are part of the meaning
of verbs like schwindeln (English fib, Dutch jokken) as well as such which are lexi-
calised by verbs like erzählen (English tell, Dutch vertellen). ein/sein Garn spinnen
and its English and Dutch equivalents are used to refer to situations in which
a speaker who does not take P to be true and assumes that H does not know P,
utters several Utt(P) to make H recognise that S takes P to be true. The proposi-
tional attitude and the speaker’s intention lexicalised by these German, English
and Dutch expressions are also part of the meaning of verbs like schwindeln (fib,
jokken). The meaning of idioms like ein/sein Garn spinnen differs from that of
verbs like schwindeln in that it lexicalises the feature [+several Utt(P)], a compo-
nent also lexicalised by verbs like erzählen (tell, vertellen), cf. Figure 11 below.
The German idiom sich mit fremden Federn schmücken (literally ‘decorate
oneself with other people’s feathers’) in (26) is used to refer to situations in which
a speaker expresses a positive evaluation of a past action or a personal quality
which he represents as being his own merit, while it is in fact someone else’s. Situ-
ations like these may also be referred to by the Dutch idioms pronken/zich tooien
met andermans veren and met geleende veren pronken. In English, they would
have to be referred to by a verb phrase containing the idiom borrowed plumes
such as dress oneself in borrowed plumes or deck oneself out in borrowed plumes.
Idioms like that in (26) lexicalise speaker attitudes which are part of the meaning
of verbs like boast (German angeben, Dutch opscheppen) as well as such which
are lexicalised by verbs like lie (German lügen, Dutch liegen). Specifically, these
idioms lexicalise a speaker’s propositional attitude, a speaker’s intention and a
speaker’s presupposition which are part of the meaning of verbs like boast. In the
case that P is an action, they also lexicalise the value ‘Speaker’ for the categorial
aspect ‘Agent of P’, a value also lexicalised by verbs like boast. In addition, the
idiom in (26) lexicalises a speaker’s propositional attitude and a speaker’s inten-
tion which is part of verbs like lie. Specifically, these idioms are used to refer to
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 195
situations in which a speaker who knows that the Agent of P is not S, wants H to
recognise that the Agent of P is S. The conceptual components lexicalised by sich
mit fremden Federn schmücken, pronken/zich tooien met andermans veren and met
geleende veren pronken are represented in Figure 12 below.
The idiom die Werbetrommel (für etwas) schlagen/rühren in (27) is the Ger-
man equivalent of the English idiom bang/beat the drum (for sth.). Both idioms
mean ‘to express one’s support of something with the intention of gaining further
support for it from other people’. The Dutch idioms de trom slaan/roeren (liter-
ally ‘beat the drum’) and veel tamtam maken (literally ‘make a lot of tamtam’) do
not have the same meaning as the German or English idioms but rather mean ‘to
make a great fuss’. The German and English idioms die Werbetrommel schlagen/
rühren and bang/beat the drum have to be translated into Dutch by a free com-
bination of words (e.g. reclame/propaganda maken (voor iets)). Idioms like that
in (27) lexicalise speaker attitudes which are part of verbs like spread (German
verbreiten, Dutch verbreiden, verspreiden) as well as such which are lexicalised by
verbs like extol (German preisen, Dutch prijzen). Specifically, they lexicalise the
propositional attitude, the speaker’s intention, and the speaker’s presupposition
which are part of the meaning of verbs like extol as well as the speaker’s presuppo-
Figure 11.  Conceptual part of the meaning of (s)ein Garn spinnen, spin a yarn and
fabeltjes/sprookjes vertellen
196	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
sition lexicalised by verbs like spread. Additionally, they lexicalise the feature ‘ad-
dressed to several hearers’, which distinguishes the meaning of spread from that
of inform and the feature [Manner: Emphatically] lexicalised by verbs like extol.
Figure 13 below represents the speaker attitudes lexicalised by die Werbetrommel
(für etwas) schlagen/rühren and beat/bang the drum (for sth.).
Since only 20 (2.9%) of the 676 complex communicative expressions con-
sidered lexicalise speaker attitudes which are part of different resource situation
types, the lexicalisation of these combinations of speaker attitudes cannot be re-
garded as one of the prominent functions of complex communicative expressions.
Neither is the lexicalisation of speaker attitudes belonging to different resource
situation types an idiom-specific function. There are also a few verbs which seem
to lexicalise similar combinations of speaker attitudes. Examples are warn (Ger-
man warnen, Dutch waarschuwen), threaten (German drohen, Dutch dreigen), ad-
vise (German raten, Dutch aanraden) and German unken, a synonym of the idiom
schwarzmalen, which has no exact equivalents in either English or Dutch).
Figure 12.  Conceptual part of the meaning of sich mit fremden Federn schmücken, sich
tooien/pronken met andermans veren and met geleende veren pronken
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 197
a. (to) warn
The meaning of warn seems to include elements of representative as well as di-
rective predicates. This verb may therefore not unambiguously be classified as
being either a representative or a directive predicate. Searle and Vanderveken, for
example, distinguish two uses of warn which are not independent:
When I warn you that something is the case I am normally warning you that it is
the case with a view to getting you to do something about it. Thus if I warn you
(assertive) that the bull is about to charge, the aim of issuing a warning would
normally be to get you to take some evasive action (directive). ... On the other
hand, when I warn you to do something, I would normally be asking you to do it
(directive) while implying that if you do not do it, it would be bad for you (asser-
tive), ...  (Searle & Vanderveken 1985: 202–203)
Unlike Searle & Vanderveken, Verschueren accounts for the ambiguity of warn by
placing it on a continuum of representatives, directives and commissives. On this
continuum, warn occupies a position in between that of representatives such as
announce and inform and that of directives such as command and request; threaten
Figure 13.  Conceptual part of the meaning of die Werbetrommel schlagen/rühren and
beat/bang the drum
198	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
is positioned in between directive and commissive predicates (cf. Verschueren
1980: 35–36), cf. Figure 14.
Harras explains the linking of warn to representatives on the one hand and
directives on the other on the basis of the Maxim of Helpfulness (‘People intend
to help one another’) and the ICMs (“Idealised Cognitive Models”) of Ordinary
Communication and of Justified Belief proposed by Sweetser (cf. Sweetser, quot-
ed in Lakoff 1990: 71–74). According to Harras, the directive illocutionary point
lexicalised by warn is derived step by step from the representative illocationary
point in the following way:
		 (1)	 If a speaker says that P and thereby adheres to the Maxim of Helpfulness, then
	 he also wants the hearer to adopt his belief that P. (He at least does not under-
	 take anything to prevent the hearer from doing so.)
		 (2)	 If a speaker wants the hearer to believe that P, then he also wants the hearer
	 to act in accordance with this belief. (He at least does not undertake anything
	 to prevent the hearer from doing so.)
		 Hence:
		 (3)	 If a speaker says that P, and P is something negative such as a danger to the
	 hearer, then the speaker wants the hearer to act in accordance to this belief,
	 i.e. he wants the hearer to prevent the negative consequences of P from occur-
	 ring. (He at least does not undertake anything to prevent the hearer from
	 doing so.)
		 Hence:
		 (4)	 If a speaker says that P, and P is negative to the hearer, the speaker requests
	 the hearer to do something to prevent P or the negative consequences of P
	 from occurring.
 (Harras 1993: 84–85; translation K.P.)
Since the directive illocutionary point is derived from the representative illocu-
tionary point, it is not part of the lexical meaning of warn. The assumption that
Figure 14.  Position of warn and threaten on the continuum of representatives, directives
and commissives (from Verschueren 1980: 36)
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 199
the representative but not the directive illocutionary point is part of the lexical
meaning of warn is plausible if a distincton is made between what is said and what
is meant or implicated (cf. Grice 1975). The verb warn is used to refer to situa-
tions in which a speaker says that he/she evaluates the consequences of a future
P as being negative to the hearer. Thus, a speaker who warns a hearer makes a
special kind of announcement. The speaker’s request to the hearer to do some-
thing to prevent P (or its negative consequences) from occurring, results from
the speaker’s announcement of P. This means that the request was not actually
uttered. Rather, it was implicated by the announcement of some P evaluated as
being negative to the hearer. Consequently, the speaker’s intention that the hearer
adopt the speaker’s belief that an action, event or state of affairs with negative
consequences for H will take place in the future is part of the lexical meaning of
warn, but the speaker’s intention that the hearer do something to prevent P from
happening is not. Rather, the latter has the status of a generalised conversational
implicature as defined by Levinson (cf. Levinson 2001). Hence, warn is not a pol-
ysemous verb as is implied by Searle & Vanderveken, who distinguish two uses of
warn. Rather, warn is a representative speech act verb, because it lexicalises only
a representative illocutionary point. Its meaning implicates rather than lexicalises
a directive illocutionary point. This conclusion is supported by the fact that warn
(or warnen) is often used in German sentences like Ich habe Dich jedenfalls ge-
warnt. By using sentences like this, a speaker indicates that he has informed H
of a future P and that he/she will not assume responsibility for the case that H
does not do anything to prevent P from happening. If warn implicates rather than
lexicalises a directive illocutionary point, it does not lexicalise a combination of
speaker attitudes which are part of different resource situation types. warn solely
lexicalises speaker attitudes typical of representative predicates. Its lexical mean-
ing does not include elements which are part of the meaning of other types of
speech act verbs.
b. (to) advise
Searle & Vanderveken treat advise in exactly the same way as warn, namely as a
predicate which may either be classified as a representative or as a directive:
... if I advise you (assertive) that the train will be late the aim of issuing the ad-
vice would normally be to get you to take some appropriate action (directive). ...
When I advise you to do something, I would normally be suggesting that you do
it (directive) while implying that it would be good for you (assertive).
 (Searle & Vanderveken 1985: 202–203)
According to Searle & Vanderveken, the difference between warning and advis-
ing is that if a speaker warns a hearer, he warns him about a state of affairs which
200	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
he presupposes not to be in the interest of the hearer, while a speaker advising
a hearer advises that hearer to do something which he presupposes to be in the
interest of the hearer (cf. Searle & Vanderveken 1985: 203). Verschueren assigns
advise the same position as warn on his continuum of representatives, directives
and commissives (cf. Figure 14 above).
Though advise may be classified both as a representative and a directive
predicate, the German and Dutch counterparts of advise cannot be classified in
that way. The representative and directive uses of advise have to be translated
into German and Dutch by different verbs. German benachrichtigen and Dutch
verwittigen correspond to the representative use of advise, while German raten
and Dutch aanraden correspond to the directive use of advise. In addition to the
speaker attitudes lexicalised by verbs like inform, verbs like German benachrich-
tigen, Dutch verwittigen and the representative advise all lexicalise the speaker’s
presupposition that knowing P is in the interest of H. A speaker informing a hear-
er of something which he considers to be important for that hearer to know (such
as an accident which happened to one of the hearer’s relatives) expects the latter to
take some appropriate action (in this case, for example, to go to the accident site).
The speaker’s intention that H do something is derived from the speaker’s inten-
tion that H know P. This means that the speaker’s intention that H do something
is not part of the lexical meaning of benachrichtigen, verwittigen or the represen-
tative advise. Rather, it is a generalised conversational implicature resulting from
the speaker’s intention that H know P together with the speaker’s presupposition
that knowing P is in the interest of H. The representative use of advise has much
in common with warn. The difference between warn and advise is not only that
warn lexicalises a speaker’s presupposition that P is not in the interest of H, while
advise lexicalises a speaker’s presupposition that knowing P is in the interest of
H, but also that advise has a directive reading which warn does not possess. The
directive reading of advise corresponds to German raten and Dutch aanraden.
If the representative advise implicates rather than lexicalises the speaker’s inten-
tion that H perform some kind of action, it does not lexicalise a combination
of speaker attitudes belonging to different resource situation types. The different
speaker intentions lexicalised by advise belong to different senses of advise. This
amounts to saying that there are two verbs advise, a representative one (advise1)
and a directive one (advise2), neither of which lexicalises combinations of speaker
attitudes belonging to different resource situation types.
c. (to) threaten
The meaning of threaten includes elements which are part of the meaning of com-
missives as well as such which are part of the meaning of directives. On Ver-
schueren’s continuum, threaten occupies a place in between directives like request
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 201
and command and commissives like promise and pledge (cf. Figure 14 above).
threaten, like its German and Dutch equivalents drohen and dreigen, is used to
refer to situations in which a speaker tells a hearer that he/she intends to do some-
thing (P) if H fails to fulfil a certain condition C, the speaker’s presupposition be-
ing that P is not in the interest of H. Verbs like threaten, drohen and dreigen on the
one hand lexicalise a propositional attitude ‘S wants to do: P’ and a speaker inten-
tion ‘S wants H to recognise: S wants to do: P’ typically lexicalised by commissive
predicates. On the other hand, they also express a speaker’s requirement that H
do something: a speaker threatening a hearer intends to do P if H fails to do what
S requires him or her to do. A speaker’s requirement that H do something is typi-
cally lexicalised by directive predicates. This means that threaten (as well as Ger-
man drohen and Dutch dreigen) differs from warn and advise in that it lexicalises
speaker attitudes which are part of the meaning of different types of speech act
verbs. threaten lexicalises speaker attitudes belonging to different resource situ-
ation types in much the same way as idioms like spin a yarn and beat/bang the
drum (for sth.) do. This observation suggests that the lexicalisation of such combi-
nations of speaker attitudes is not a function fulfilled solely by idioms.
d. German unken (English ∅; Dutch ∅)
German unken is used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs a hearer of
a future action or event which he/she considers to have negative consequences for
H. As I have shown in Chapter 2, unken has no exact equivalents in either English
or Dutch. The situations referred to by German unken have to be referred to in
English and Dutch by verbs like prophesy and foretell, whose meaning includes
neither a positive nor a negative evaluation. Like threaten, German unken lexi-
calises speaker attitudes which are part of the meaning of verbs like vorhersagen
(English foretell, Dutch voorspellen) as well as such which are lexicalised by verbs
like meckern (English grumble, Dutch mopperen). Specifically, unken lexicalises
the propositional attitude and the speaker intention expressed by vorhersagen (‘S
considers P to be likely’ and ‘S wants H to recognise that he/she considers P to be
likely’) as well as the propositional attitude and the speaker intention which are
part of the meaning of meckern (‘S considers P to be bad’ and ‘S wants H to recog-
nise that he/she considers P to be bad’). Additionally, unken lexicalises the value
‘future’ for the categorial aspect ‘temporal reference (P)’, a value which is also part
of the meaning of verbs like vorhersagen, cf. Figure 15 below.
In this section, I have shown that a small number of idioms lexicalise speaker
attitudes which are part of the meaning of different types of speech act verbs. Idi-
oms lexicalising such combinations of speaker attitudes constitute hybrid fields of
communicative expressions. However, the creation of hybrid lexical fields is not
a function fulfilled solely by idioms. English threaten and its German and Dutch
202	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
counterparts drohen and dreigen as well as German unken also lexicalise speaker
attitudes which are elements of different resource situation types. Since only 20 of
the 676 complex lexicalisations considered and only two verbs constitute hybrid
lexical fields, the constitution of such fields is not altogether a prominent function
of either simple or complex lexicalisations.
Complex lexicalisations constituting hybrid lexical fields lexicalise concepts
which are not lexicalised by speech act verbs and verbs of communication and may
therefore be considered to be fillers of lexical gaps. However, idioms constituting
hybrid fields of communicative expressions do not fill gaps in the fields of speech
act verbs and verbs of communication but rather such which correspond to com-
binations of speaker attitudes which are elements of different resource situation
types. Hence idioms constituting hybrid lexical fields fill gaps on the conceptual
rather than the lexical level of the meaning of communicative expressions.
Complex lexicalisations which constitute hybrid lexical fields do not lexicalise
speaker attitudes different from those lexicalised by verbs. Rather, these complex
communicative expressions lexicalise combinations of speaker attitudes not lexi-
calised by verbs. The idioms discussed in this section (sich mit fremden Federn
schmücken, beat/bang the drum (for sth.), die Werbetrommel (für etwas) schlagen/
Figure 15.  Conceptual part of the meaning of unken
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 203
rühren etc.) are of course semantically more complex than the verbs of whose
semantic components their meanings are built up. Yet some verbs also lexicalise
more than one value for one of the attributes of the categorial aspects. Examples
are representatives like convince and such like betray. Verbs like convince lexicalise
two values (‘S wants H to recognise that he takes P to be true’ and ‘S wants that H
take P to be true’) for the categorial aspect of the speaker intention in addition to
the features [+ Sequence of Utt(P)] and [+Result]; such like betray even lexicalise
three values (‘H does not know P’, ‘H is not supposed to know P’ and ‘knowing P
is in the interest of H’) for the categorial aspect of the speaker’s presuppositions.
These examples show that verbs as well as idioms may lexicalise more than one
value for some of the attributes of the categorial aspects. In this sense, the con-
cepts lexicalised by idioms constituting hybrid lexical fields are not on the whole
more complex than those lexicalised by verbs. Neither do complex lexicalisations
constituting hybrid lexical fields necessarily lexicalise evaluations. If they do, they
lexicalise the same evaluations as the verbs of whose semantic components their
meanings are built up.
4.5.3	 Complex lexicalisations constituting separate classes
	 of communicative expressions
Of the 235 German idioms and collocations which do not have one-word coun-
terparts, 26 constitute independent fields of communicative expressions. These
idioms and collocations represent 11.0% of the complex lexicalisations which lack
one-word synonyms and 3.8% of the 676 complex lexicalisations which were part
of the German corpus. Twenty of them are fully idiomatic expressions, four are
semi-idioms and two are collocations. Insofar as these idioms and collocations
lexicalise values for one or more of the attributes of the categorial aspects not lexi-
calised by verbs, they constitute lexical fields of their own. The idioms in (28a)-
(34a), for example, establish a lexical field which has much in common with those
constituted by representatives like inform:
	(28)	 a.	 Farbe bekennen (I)
	(29)	 a.	 Flagge zeigen (I)
	(30)	 a.	 die/seine Karten aufdecken/offen auf den Tisch legen (I)
	(31)	 a.	 Tacheles/Fraktur reden (I)
	(32)	 a.	 Klartext reden/sprechen (I)
	(33)	 a.	 Stellung zu etwas nehmen/beziehen (SI)
204	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	(34)	 a.	 jmdm. zeigen, was eine Harke ist (I)
	(35)	 a.	 eine deutliche Sprache sprechen (I)
The idioms in (28a)–(35a) all mean ‘to express one’s opinion openly and emphati-
cally’. They all lexicalise the propositional attitude ‘S knows P’ and the speaker
intention ‘S wants H to know P’, which are typically lexicalised by representatives
like inform. However, the idioms in (28a)–(35a) differ from representatives like
inform in that they also lexicalise a specification of the propositional content not
lexicalised by verbs like inform. They are used to refer to situations in which a
speaker informs a hearer of his or her opinion on a particular subject. A specifica-
tion of P as the speaker’s opinion on a particular subject is not lexicalised by any
kind of speech act verb or verb of communication nor is it part of the meaning
of any other complex communicative expression. Because of this, the idioms in
(28a)–(35a) constitute a separate field of representative expressions.
Like the idioms in (28a)–(35a), those in (36)–(39) lexicalise a specification
of the propositional content not lexicalised by other communicative expressions,
whether these be simple or complex:
	(36)	 jmdm. aus dem Herzen sprechen (SI)
	(37)	 ins gleiche Horn stoßen/tuten/blasen (I)
	(38)	 in dieselbe/die gleiche Kerbe hauen/schlagen (I)
	(39)	 jmdm. aus der Seele sprechen (SI)
These idioms are used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs a hearer
of his opinion which happens to be identical to the hearer’s. A specification of P
as an opinion of the speaker which is identical to that of the hearer is not part of
the meaning of any type of speech act verb or verb of communication nor is it
lexicalised by any other complex communicative expression. Because of this, the
idioms in (36)–(39) constitute a lexical field of their own. Specifically, they estab-
lish a special class of representative expressions.
Finally, the idioms in (40) and (41) constitute a lexical field which has much
in common with those containing evaluative expressives such as classify, grade,
judge and evaluate:
	(40)	 jmdn. in eine Reihe mit jmdm. stellen (SI)
	(41)	 jmdn./etwas auf eine/die gleiche Stufe (mit jmdm./etwas) stellen (I)
These idioms lexicalise the same propositional attitude and the same speaker in-
tention as verbs like classify, grade, etc. Like these verbs, they are used to refer
to situations in which a speaker classifies P according to a certain norm. Yet the
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 205
idioms in (40) and (41) differ from verbs like classify, grade and judge in that they
also lexicalise a specification of the speaker’s evaluation. They are used to refer to
situations in which a speaker evaluates x as being equivalent to y and also wants
the hearer to recognise that. Verbs like classify, grade, judge etc. do not lexicalise
any such specification of the speaker’s evaluation nor is such a specification of the
speaker’s evaluation lexicalised by any other complex communicative expression.
Since such a specification of S’s evaluation is not part of the meaning of other
communicative expressions, the idioms in (40) and (41) constitute a lexical field
of their own.
Complex communicative expressions constituting lexical fields of their own
do not necessarily lexicalise evaluations. If they do, the evaluation lexicalised is
an explicit one by a resource situation speaker. None of the German idioms con-
stituting lexical fields of their own lexicalise other types of evaluations. Explicit
evaluations by a resource situation speaker are also lexicalised by the idioms in
(40) and (41). Though an evaluation of x as being equivalent to y is not part of the
meaning of any speech act verb, the type of evaluation lexicalised by the idioms in
(40) and (41), an explicit evaluation by a resource situation speaker, is lexicalised
by simple and complex lexicalisations alike.
Idioms like those discussed in this section also exist in English and in Dutch.
The idioms in (28b)–(32c), for example, are English and Dutch equivalents of
German idioms such as Flagge zeigen, Farbe bekennen, Tacheles/Frakur reden etc.
	(28)	 b.	 show/fly the flag (I)
	(29)	 b.	 put/lay one’s cards on the table (I)
	(30)	 b.	 speak one’s mind (I)
	(28)	 c.	 open kaart spelen (I)
	(29)	 c.	 zijn kaarten op tafel leggen (I)
	(30)	 c.	 kleur bekennen (I)
	(31)	 c.	 zijn stem laten horen (I)
	(32)	 c.	 stelling nemen (SI)
Insofar as these English and Dutch idioms lexicalise a concept not lexicalised by
verbs, they also fill a gap in the inventory of English and Dutch communicative
expressions. The same is true of the Dutch idiom iemand/iets op één lijn stellen
met iemand/iets, which has the same meaning as the German idioms jmdn. in eine
Reihe mit jmdm. stellen and jmdn./etwas auf eine/die gleiche Stufe (mit jmdm./et-
was) stellen (examples (40) and (41)). An English idiom meaning ‘put something
or someone on a par with something or someone else’ seems to be lacking alto-
206	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
gether. The phrase put someone/something on a par with something/someone else
is a free combination of words consisting of the verb put and the idiom on a par
with, the verb put not being part of the idiom. The German idioms in (36)–(39)
(in die gleiche Kerbe hauen, in das gleiche Horn tuten/stoßen/blasen etc.) do not
have a simple or complex counterpart in either English or Dutch. This means that
the concept of expressing an opinion which happens to be indentical with the
addressee’s appears not to be lexicalised in English or in Dutch.
Since only 3.8% of the 680 complex lexicalisations considered, constitute
lexical fields of their own, the constitution of such fields cannot altogether be
regarded as a prominent function of complex communicative expressions. Yet
the constitution of independent fields of communicative expressions is a function
fulfilled solely by complex lexicalisations. Complex communicative expressions
like those dicussed in this section lexicalise values for one of the attributes of a
categorial aspect which are not lexicalised by verbs. Most of the complex lexicali-
sations constituting lexical fields of their own are idioms; collocations only rarely
fulfil this function.
The fact that most of the German idioms discussed in this section have English
and Dutch counterparts suggests that complex communicative expressions fulfil
the same functions in these languages as they do in German. German, English
and Dutch idioms and collocations which cannot be used as synonyms of speech
act verbs and verbs of communication fulfil one of the following three functions:
they expand the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of communication, they
constitute hybrid classes of communicative expressions, or they constitute in-
dependent classes of communicative expressions. This does not mean, though,
that any complex communicative expression of one language has its equivalent
in either of the other languages. I have already shown that the German idioms
jmdm. aus der Seele sprechen, in die gleiche Kerbe hauen, etc. lack a counterpart in
English and Dutch. Likewise, the German idiom sich mit fremden Federn schmü­
cken has a counterpart in Dutch but not in English. Since I have used German
idioms and collocations as the basis of my cross-linguistic comparison, it is not
surprising that in this part of this study missing counterparts have been detected
only in English and Dutch. Missing German counterparts of English and Dutch
phrasemes may best be found using a comprehensive collection of idioms and
collocations for each of the two languages. To complement my observations on
the semantic peculiarities of phrasemes, I shall briefly discuss some English and
Dutch idioms which have no equivalents in either of the other languages.
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 207
4.6	 Complex communicative expressions in English, German
	 and Dutch
As I have mentioned before, some idioms lexicalise a degree of strength differ-
ent from that lexicalised by their synonymous verbs. For example, the German
idiom lügen wie gedruckt and its English and Dutch counterparts lie one’s head off
and liegen alsof het gedrukt staat lexicalise a higher degree of insincerity than lie.
However, not every intensifying or attenuating expression of one language has a
counterpart in any other language. For example, the Dutch idiom steen en been
klagen (literally ‘complain stone and bone’), which differs from complain only in
that it expresses an intensification of the speaker’s negative evaluation of P, has no
counterparts in English or German. The absence of English and German lexicali-
sations for the concept COMPLAIN VERY MUCH reveals a gap in the classes of
English and German expressives lexicalising a speaker’s negative evaluation of P.
Like German ones, English and Dutch complex communicative expressions
often fulfil the function of expanding the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs
of communication. Idioms and collocations expanding the meaning of these not
only lexicalise all the speaker attitudes lexicalised by a corresponding verb but
also additional conceptual or lexical components which are not part of the mean-
ing of that verb. The additional components lexicalised by German, English and
Dutch idioms and collocations all fall into one of the following categories: [Speci-
fication of P], [Manner], [Result], [Iterativity], [Aim] and [Evaluation]. Though
idioms and collocations lexicalise the same types of meaning components in Eng-
lish, German and Dutch, they may also lexicalise different values for each of these
components in these three languages. The idioms in (42) and (43), for example,
lexicalise a combination of a set of speaker attitudes and a specific type of specifi-
cation of P not lexicalised in each of the other two languages. (The meaning of the
idioms below is first described by a paraphrase and then represented as a combi-
nation of the speaker attitudes lexicalised by a verb and an additional conceptual
or lexical component. Underneath these semantic descriptions, German, English
or Dutch equivalents are listed if there are any.)
	(42)	 talk business (I)
		 meaning: ‘discuss business affairs’
		 discuss + Specification (P): P = business affairs
		 (German: ∅; Dutch: ∅)
	(43)	 talk shop (I)
		 meaning: ‘discuss matters connected with one’s profession’
		 discuss + Specification (P): P = matters connected with one’s profession
		 (German: fachsimpeln; Dutch: ∅)
208	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Likewise, English, German and Dutch idioms and collocations may also expand
the meaning of a speech act verb or verb of communication by lexicalising a par-
ticular manner or evaluation not included in the meaning of that verb. Though
English, German and Dutch idioms and collocations all lexicalise components
of the categories [Manner] and [Evaluation], they often differ with respect to the
particular kind of manner or evaluation lexicalised. For example, the Dutch id-
iom in (44) lexicalises a combination of a set of speaker attitudes and a specific
manner not lexicalised in English or German.
	(44)	 iets in geuren en kleuren vertellen (SI)
		 meaning: ‘describe something in much detail’
		 describe + manner: in much detail
		 (English: ∅; German: ∅)
The English and Dutch examples in (42)–(44) show that there are in fact many
more concepts of communication than those lexicalised by the German idioms
and collocations discussed in this chapter. Insofar as there are no German verbs,
idioms or collocations for the concepts lexicalised by most of the English and
Dutch expressions in (42)–(44), these reveal gaps in the vocabulary of German
communicative expressions. These gaps would not have come to light if complex
lexicalisations in languages other than German had not been taken into account.
Complex lexicalisations fulfil the same functions in English, German and Dutch,
but English, German an Dutch idioms and collocations occasionally show some
more fine-grained differences. Particularly, they often differ with respect to the
way in which they expand the meaning of speech act verbs and of verbs of com-
munication. In addition to the speaker attitudes lexicalised by a corresponding
verb, they all lexicalise the same conceptual or lexical categories (specification of
P, manner, result, iterativity, aim and evaluation) but often differ with respect to
the particular type of specification of P, manner, result, etc. lexicalised.
4.7	 Conclusion
The study of the lexicalisation properties of German idioms and collocations has
shown that the majority of the complex communicative expressions considered
have one-word synonyms. Like their one-word counterparts, these complex com-
municative expressions may be classified as belonging to the fields of speech act
verbs and verbs of communication. However, this statement needs to be modified
in the light of the fact that the lexicalisation properties of idioms differ significant-
ly from those of collocations. Of the collocations which were part of the German
corpus, 90.6% could be classified as being synonyms of verbs, while only 54.4%
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 209
of the idioms considered could be classified in that way. In Section 4.4.2, these
observations have been summarised as “Lexicalisation Pattern I”:
		 Lexicalisation Pattern I (Idioms and collocations as synonyms of speech act
verbs or verbs of communication):
	 	 Collocations mostly lexicalise the same concepts of communication as speech
verbs and verbs of communication. Idioms often lexicalise concepts of com-
munication different from those lexicalised by verbs.
The fact that about half of the idioms considered may not be used as synonyms of
speech act verbs or verbs of communication shows that many idioms do indeed
fill gaps in the vocabulary of communicative expressions.
Most of the complex lexicalisations which cannot be used as synonyms of
speech act verbs or verbs of communication expand the meaning of these. Idioms
(and collocations) expanding the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of com-
munication not only lexicalise the same speaker attitudes as a corresponding verb
but also conceptual or lexical components which are not part of the meaning of
that verb. These phrasemes fill gaps on the lexical or conceptual level of mean-
ing. Almost all phrasemes expanding the meaning of speech act verbs or verbs of
communication are idioms. Collocations only rarely fulfil this function.
A small number of the complex lexicalisations which lack one-word coun-
terparts lexicalise concepts of communication composed of elements of different
resource situation types. These complex lexicalisations constitute hybrid fields of
communicative expressions. Almost all of the complex lexicalisations fulfilling
this function are idioms; collocations only rarely constitute hybrid lexical fields.
Since complex lexicalisations constituting hybrid lexical fields lexicalise concepts
different from those lexicalised by verbs, they fill gaps on the conceptual level of
meaning.
A small number of the complex lexicalisations which cannot be used as syn-
onyms of speech act verbs and verbs of communication lexicalise conceptual
components entirely different from those lexicalised by verbs. Particularly, these
complex communicative expressions lexicalise other values than verbs for one of
the attributes of a categorial aspect. Idioms (and collocations) lexicalising such
values constitute new fields of communicative expressions. Almost all of the com-
plex lexicalisations constituting such lexical fields are idioms; collocations only
rarely fulfil this function. Since complex communicative expressions constituting
lexical fields of their own lexicalise concepts of communication different from
those lexicalised by verbs, they fill gaps on the conceptual level of meaning.
An equally small number of complex lexicalisations lacking one-word syn-
onyms may still be classified as belonging to the fields of speech act verbs and
verbs of communication, because they lexicalise the same concepts as those lexi-
210	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
calised by verbs. Since these complex lexicalisations differ from the verbs of the
same lexical fields with respect to the lexical part of their meaning, they fill gaps
on the lexical level of meaning.
The observations on the functions fulfilled by complex lexicalisations lacking
one-word synonyms are summarised in “Lexicalisations Patterns IIa–c”, which
also answer the question of whether complex lexicalisations may be regarded as
fillers of lexical gaps:
		 Lexicalisation Patterns IIa–c (Complex lexicalisations lacking one-word
synonyms):
		 a.	 Complex lexicalisations which may be classified as belonging to the fields
	 of speech act verbs or verbs of communication and do not expand the
	 meaning of these fill gaps on the lexical level of meaning.
		 b.	 Complex lexicalisations which expand the meaning of speech act verbs or
	 verbs of communication fill gaps on the lexical or conceptual level of
	 meaning (depending on whether they add conceptual or lexical compo-
	 nents to the meaning of a corresponding verb.).
		 c.	 Complex lexicalisations constituting hybrid lexical fields or lexical fields
	 of their own fill gaps on the conceptual level of meaning.
A comparison of the lexicalisation properties of German idioms and collocations
with those of English and Dutch idioms and collocations has shown that complex
lexicalisations fulfil the same functions in English, German and Dutch. However,
English, German an Dutch idioms and collocations often differ with respect to the
way in which they expand the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of commu-
nication. Specifically, English, German and Dutch idioms and collocations often
differ with respect to the particular type of specification of P, manner, result etc.
lexicalised. These observations may be summarised by Lexicalisation Pattern III:
		 Lexicalisation Tendency III (Complex lexicalisations in English, German and
Dutch):
		 Complex communicative expressions lexicalise concepts of the same type in
English, German and Dutch.
The study of the distribution of simple and complex lexicalisations in the lexicali-
sation domain of concepts of communication has shown that the concepts lexi-
calised by complex communicative expressions are neither more nor less complex
than those lexicalised by verbs. Though the concepts lexicalised by phrasemes
expanding the meaning of verbs are more complex than those lexicalised by the
verbs whose meanings these phrasemes expand, the concepts lexicalised by this
type of phrasemes are not generally more complex than those lexicalised by verbs.
As I have shown in Section 4.5.1, some verbs lexicalise concepts which are as
	 Chapter 4.  Idioms and collocations	 211
complex as those lexicalised by idioms and collocations expanding the meaning
of verbs. The concepts lexicalised by complex lexicalisations constituting hybrid
lexical fields are obviously more complex than each of those whose components
contribute to the meaning of these complex lexicalisations. Yet some concepts
lexicalised by verbs contain as many components as those lexicalised by complex
lexicalisations constituting hybrid lexical fields. The concepts lexicalised by com-
plex lexicalisations constituting lexical fields of their own are not more complex
than those lexicalised by verbs for obvious reasons: these idioms and collocations
lexicalise other but not more values for one of the attributes of a given categorial
aspect. On the whole, the observations on the complexity of the concepts lexi-
calised by complex communicative expressions do not support the idea that the
concepts lexicalised by idioms are more complex than those lexicalised by verbs.
Neither do the results of this study support the wide-spread belief that idioms
characteristically lexicalise speaker attitudes and/or evaluations. Though idioms
do indeed rarely occur as synonyms of speech act verbs which do not lexicalise
any specific speaker attitudes, they may also be used as synonyms of verbs of com-
munication. As I have explained in Chapter 1, these differ from genuine speech
act verbs in that they do not lexicalise any specific speaker attitudes. Addition-
ally, the evaluations lexicalised by idioms and collocations are of the same type
as those lexicalised by speech act verbs. Like the evaluations lexicalised by verbs,
those lexicalised by idioms and collocations are either explicit evaluations by a
resource or discourse situation speaker or implicit ones (i.e. evalutions which
have the status of presuppositions of a resource situation speaker). On the whole,
the comparison of the lexicalisation properties of speech act verbs on the one
hand and idioms and collocations on the other has not revealed any differences
between simple and complex lexicalisations with respect to the type of speaker
attitudes and/or evaluations lexicalised.
The results of this study are relevant only to the vocabulary of communicative
expressions. Whether lexicalisation patterns I–III also hold for other sections of
the vocabulary will have to be clarified by systematic studies of the distribution of
simple and complex lexicalisations in these sections of the vocabulary. Any such
comparison requires that a conceptual system be designed which may serve as
the background against which the lexicalisation properties of simple and complex
lexicalisations can be compared. Each section of the vocabulary requires it own
conceptual system. Generalisations may therefore only be made by comparing the
results of the studies of different sections of the vocabulary.
chapter 5
Conclusion
In this study, I have dealt with two special aspects of the lexicalisation of concepts
of communication: the distribution of lexical gaps and the lexicalisation proper-
ties of complex as opposed to simple communicative expressions. The questions
to be answered were the following:
1.	 Does the distribution of lexical gaps across the different lexical fields con-
stituted by speech act verbs and verbs of communication show certain reg-
ularities or patterns? If so, may these be explained in a principled way, i.e.
by making reference to lexicalisation principles? If an explanation in terms
of lexicalisation principles is indeed possible, may these (or at least some of
these) be subsumed under a single more general principle or are the different
lexicalisation principles completely independent of one another?
2.	 Do complex communicative expressions (i.e. idioms and collocations used
to refer to linguistic actions) lexicalise concepts of communication different
from those lexicalised by simple ones? If this were indeed the case, the obvi-
ous conclusion would be that complex communicative expressions are fillers
of gaps in the inventory of speech act verbs and verbs of communication.
As I have explained in Chapter 2, these questions can only be answered against the
background of an ordering system for communication concepts. Several speech
act-theoretical approaches were discussed as possible candidates for conceptual
systems. However, they were ultimately rejected in favour of the ordering system
used to describe the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of communication in
the Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsverben (cf. Harras et al. 2004 & 2007).
For one thing, this system is based on parameters resulting from a semantic anal-
ysis of sentences containing illocutionary verbs. As a consequence, the system’s
parameters are necessarily relevant to a description of the meaning of illocation-
ary verbs. This is one advantage which the ordering system used in this study has
over traditional speech act taxonomies such as Searle’s: some of Searle’s criteria
for the classification of speech acts are simply irrelevant to the meaning of illocu-
tionary verbs. Furthermore, the conceptual system used in this study, in spite of
being based on the meaning of existing illocutionary verbs, covers more than only
existing predicates; it also covers many cases of communication concepts which
214	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
fail to get lexicalised. The coverage of non-lexicalised concepts is another decisive
advantage of the conceptual system used as compared to other approaches, e.g.
Austin’s lexicalist approach, which covers only existing predicates. Insofar as the
conceptual system used in this study covers all types of speech act verbs and verbs
of communication, it also allows a complete coverage of the lexicalisation domain
of communication concepts. Incompleteness was the main problem associated
with ordering systems such as Baumgärtner’s and Edmondson’s.
The conceptual system used as the basis of this study includes parameters, or
“categorial aspects”, whose attributes may be assigned different values. As I have
shown in Chapter 3, not all combinations of values which are possible in principle
get lexicalised by special illocutionary verbs. Combinations of values which do not
get lexicalised represent instances of lexical gaps. While some instances of lexical
gaps appear to be isolated cases, a large number of them fall into certain patterns.
Some of these may plausibly be explained in terms of lexicalisation principles.
This is true especially of the gaps occurring in the fields constituted by directives,
commisssives and expressives. The patterns in the occurrence of gaps in the class-
es of directives and commissives have shown that the costs and benefits involved
in directive and commissive speech acts are highly relevant to the lexicalisation
of concepts of directive and commissive speech acts: only concepts of speech acts
involving a balance of costs and benefits to S and H get lexicalised. On the basis
of this observation, I have proposed a Principle of Costs and Benefits to account
for why some concepts of directive and commissive speech acts get lexicalised
while others do not. The lexicalisation of concepts of expressive speech acts has
been shown to be governed by the Principle of Markedness: Patterns of linguistic
behaviour which count as marked get lexicalised rather than such which conform
to social norms and may therefore be regarded as being “normal” or unmarked.
Since the Principle of Costs and Benefits and that of Markedness each account
for the lexicalisation (or non-lexicalisation) of a large number of communication
concepts, they are the most important principles governing the lexicalisation of
communication concepts. While the Principle of Costs and Benefits affects all
types of directive and commissive speech act concepts, the Principle of Marked-
ness governs the lexicalisation of all speech act concepts involving the expression
of evaluations and emotions.
Both principles also apply to the lexicalisation of communication concepts
in each of the three languages studied (i.e. in English, German and Dutch). To
the extent that speech acts involving a balance of costs and benefits to S and H
represent instances of linguistic behaviour which count as “normal” or unmarked
within English-, German- and Dutch-speaking communities, the Principle of
Costs and Benefits and that of Markedness are mutually incompatible. Accord-
ing to the Principle of Costs and Benefits, concepts of directive and commissive
	 Chapter 5.  Conclusion	 215
speech acts get lexicalised only when the relevant speech acts conform to social
norms, i.e. when they involve a balance of costs and benefits. The Principle of
Markedness states that patterns of linguistic behaviour which count as marked
get lexicalised more readily than such which count as “normal” or unmarked. The
incompatibility of the Principle of Costs and Benefits with that of Markedness im-
plies that these two lexicalisation principles my not be subsumed under another
more general principle. Rather, lexicalisation principles seem to hold for different
types of communication concepts separately.
The concepts of costs and benefits and that of markedness have already been
put forward as factors bearing on the lexicalisation of communication concepts.
Edmondson, for example, claimed that concepts of speech acts involving benefits
to H (“hearer-supportive behaviour”) get lexicalised rather than such involving
benefits to S (“speaker-supportive behaviour”). While Edmondson was right in
assuming that costs and benefits affect the lexicalisation of communication con-
cepts, I have shown that costs and benefits affect the lexicalisation of these con-
cepts in a completely different way. What bears on lexicalisation is a balance of
costs and benefits to S and H rather than the hearer- or speaker-supportiveness of
patterns of linguistic behaviour. Edmondson also appeared to be wrong in claim-
ing that costs and benefits affect the lexicalisation of all communication concepts.
As I have shown, the principle of costs and benefits has explanatory power only if
its application is restricted to the lexicalisation of concepts of directive and com-
missive speech acts. As a principle accounting for the lexicalisation of concepts
of directive and commissive speech acts only, the Principle of Costs and Benefits
makes the correct predictions with respect to concepts which are and such which
are not lexicalised.
Markedness too has been claimed to be relevant to lexicalisation. At least,
the Principle of Cognitive Salience suggested by Verschueren has much in com-
mon with what I have termed the “Principle of Markedness”. According to both
principles, patterns of linguistic behaviour which deviate from expected routine
behaviour get lexicalised rather than such which conform to conventional ways
of speaking. As I have shown, effects of markedness (or salience) may not be ob-
served with respect to the lexicalisation of concepts of directive and commissive
speech acts.
On the whole, my approach differs from Edmondson’s as well as from Ver-
schueren’s in that it incorporates two principles of restricted applicability rather
than only one which is generally applicable. Though an approach incorporating
two lexicalisation principles is certainly less economical than one which com-
prises only one principle, the former does not run into the problems associated
with the latter. As I have shown, different types of communication concepts call
for different types of lexicalisation principles. To account for the distribution of
216	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
gaps in the inventory of speech act verbs and verbs of communication, we need at
least two different lexicalisation principles with restricted applicability.
The Principle of Costs and Benefits and that of Markedness do not lose their
validity when complex communicative expressions are taken into account. This is
due to the fact that complex communicative expressions do not fill the gaps which
become apparent from the procedure whereby the values for the attributes of the
categorial aspects are combined in many different ways. Given that 65.2% of the
total number of the complex lexicalisations considered are synonyms of speech
act verbs and verbs of communication, filling lexical gaps does not appear to be
the single most important function of complex lexicalisations. In spite of the large
number of complex lexicalisations occurring as synonyms of speech act verbs and
verbs of communication, 34.8% of the total number of idioms and collocations
considered lack one-word synonyms. These complex communicative expressions
may also be regarded as fillers of gaps in the inventory of speech act verbs and
verbs of communication. However, they do not fill gaps of the kind represented
by non-lexicalised combinations of values for the attributes of the categorial as-
pects but rather such which result from expansions of the meaning of existing
verbs. The large majority (80.4%) of the idioms and collocations which do not
have one-word synonyms in fact expand the meaning of corresponding verbs. Of
the remaining 19.6%, 8.5% constitute hybrid fields and 11.1% independent fields
of communicative expressions. These results show that, as opposed to some wide-
spread ideas about the meaning of idioms, the function of idioms (and colloca-
tions) is not restricted to the lexicalisation of speaker attitudes and evaluations or
of complex concepts and ideas.
The fact that the large majority of the complex communicative expressions
considered either occur as synonyms of simple communicative expressions or
expand the meaning of these may in fact be taken to support the basic correctness
of Searle’s speech act classification. Only idioms and collocations which consti-
tute hybrid or completely new fields of communicative expressions do not fit into
Searle’s classes. Even if Searle had taken complex communicative expressions into
account, he would not have arrived at a speech act classification substantially dif-
ferent from the one he actually proposed.
Bibliography
Alexander, R. J. 1987. “Problems in Understanding and Teaching Idiomaticity in English.” An-
glistik und Englischunterricht 32: 105–122.
Allan, K. 2001. Natural Language Semantics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Austin, J. L. 1961. “Performative Utterances.” In John L. Austin: Philosophical Papers, 3rd ed., J.
O. Urmson and G. J. Warnock (eds) 1979, Chapter 10. Oxford: OUP.
Austin, J. L. 1962. How to Do Things with Words: The William James Lectures Delivered at Har-
vard University in 1955, 2nd ed., J. O. Urmson and M. Sbisà (eds) 1982. Oxford: OUP.
Ballmer, T. T. and Brennenstuhl, W. 1981. Speech Act Classification: A Study in the Lexical Anal-
ysis of English Speech Activity Verbs [Language and Communication 8]. Berlin: Springer.
Baranov, A. N. and Dobrovol’skij, D. 1999. “Idioms from a Cognitive Perspective.” Moscow State
University Bulletin 19 (1): 64–75.
Barwise, J. and Perry, J. 1983. Situations and Attitudes. Cambridge/MA: The MIT Press.
Bauer, L. 1983. English Word Formation [Cambridge textbooks in Linguistics]. Cambridge:
CUP.
Baumgärtner, K. 1977. “Lexikalische Systeme möglicher Performative.” Zeitschrift für Germa­
nistische Linguistik 5: 257–276.
Berlin, B. and Kay, P. 1970. Basic Color Terms. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Bierwisch, M. and Lang, E. 1989. “Somewhat Longer – Much Deeper – Further and Further:
Epilogue to the Dimensional Adjective Project.” In Dimensional Adjectives: Grammatical
Structure and Conceptual Interpretation [Springer Series in Language and Communication
26], M. Bierwisch and E. Lang (eds), 471–514. Berlin: Springer.
Bierwisch, M. and Schreuder, R. 1992. “From Concepts to Lexical Items.” Cognition 42: 23–60.
Brdar, M. and Brdar-Szabó, R. 2004. “Lexikalische Lücken bei verba dicendi und ihre Schließung
durch prädikative Metonymie: Eine kontrastiv-typologische Studie.” In J. Tóth (ed.), 141–
163.
Burger, H. 1998. Phraseologie: Eine Einführung am Beispiel des Deutschen [Grundlagen der Ger-
manistik 36]. Berlin: Erich Schmidt Verlag.
Černyševa, I. 1984. “Aktuelle Probleme der deutschen Phraseologie.” Deutsch als Fremdsprache
21 (1): 17–22.
Černyševa, I. 1989. “Strukturtypologische Phraseologieforschung in der sowjetischen Ger-
manistik: Überblick und Ausblick.” In Europhras 88: Phraséologie Contrastive, Actes du
Colloque International Klingenthal-Strasbourg, 12–16 Mai 1988, G. Gréciano (ed.), 43–49.
Strasbourg: Université des Sciences Humaines.
CDEL=The Collins English Dictionary, 2nd ed., 1986. London: Collins.
Coleman, L. and Kay, P. 1981. “Prototype Semantics: The English Word Lie.” Language 57 (1):
26–44.
Cowie, A. P. 1998. “Phraseology.” In Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics, J. L. Mey (ed.), 673–
677. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
218	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Cowie, A. P. (ed.) 2001. Phraseology: Theory, Analysis, and Applications. Oxford: OUP.
Cowie, A. P., Mackin, R. and McCaig, I. R. 1996. Oxford Dictionary of Current Idiomatic English,
Vol. 2: Oxford Dictionary of English Idioms. Oxford: OUP.
Cruse, D. A. 1986. Lexical Semantics [Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics]. Cambridge: CUP.
Cruse, D. A. 2004. Meaning in Language: An Introduction to Semantics and Pragmatics [Oxford
Textbooks in Linguistics]. 2nd ed. Oxford: OUP.
de Groot, H. (ed. in chief) 1999. Van Dale Idioomwoordenboek: Verklaring en herkomst van
uitdrukkingen en gezegden. Utrecht: Van Dale Lexicografie.
Dobrovol’skij, D. 1988. Phraseologie als Objekt der Universalienlinguistik [Linguistische Stu-
dien]. Leipzig: VEB Verlag Enzyklopädie.
Dobrovol’skij, D. 1995. Kognitive Aspekte der Idiom-Semantik: Studien zum Thesaurus deutscher
Idiome [Eurogermanistik 8]. Tübingen: Narr.
Dobrovol’skij, D. 2000. “Ist die Semantik von Idiomen nichtkompositionell?” In Sprachspiel
und Bedeutung: Festschrift für F. Hundsnurscher, S. Beckmann, P.-P. König and G. Wolf
(eds), 113–124. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
DUDEN Redewendungen und sprichwörtliche Redensarten: Wörterbuch der deutschen Idiomatik
[Duden 11] 1988. Revised by G. Drosdowski and W. Scholze-Stubenrecht. Mannheim:
Dudenverlag.
Edmondson, W. J. 1981. “Illocutionary Verbs, Illocutionary Acts, and Conversational Behav-
iour.” In Words, Worlds, and Contexts: New Approaches in Word Semantics [Research in
Text Theory/Untersuchungen zur Texttheorie 6], H.-J. Eikmeyer and H. Rieser (eds), 485–
499. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Fellbaum, C. 1993. “The Determiner in English Idioms.” In Idioms: Processing, Structure, and In-
terpretation, C. Cacciari and P. Tabossi (eds), 271–295. Hillsdale/NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Fellbaum, C. 1996. “WordNet: Ein semantisches Netz als Bedeutungstheorie.” In Bedeutung,
Konzepte, Bedeutungskonzepte: Theorie und Anwendung in Linguistik und Psychologie, J.
Grabowski, G. Harras and T. Herrmann (eds), 211–230.
Fellbaum, C. 1998. “Towards a Representation of Idioms in WordNet.” Paper presented at the
Coling-ACL ’98 Workshop “Usage of WordNet in Natural Language Processing Systems”,
August 16, 1998. Internet: http://www.ai.sri.com/~harabagi/coling-acl98/acl_work/acl_
work.html
Fernando, C. 1996. Idioms and Idiomaticity [Describing English Language]. Oxford: OUP.
Fernando, C. and Flavell, R. 1981. On Idiom: Critical Views and Perspectives [Exeter Linguistic
Studies 5]. University of Exeter.
Fleischer, W. 1997. Phraseologie der deutschen Gegenwartssprache. 2nd revised and augmented
ed. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Gläser, R. 1986. Phraseologie der englischen Sprache. Leipzig: Verlag Enzyklopädie.
Glatz, D. 2006. “Funktionsverbgefüge – semantische Doubletten von einfachen Verben oder
mehr?” In K. Proost, G. Harras and D. Glatz, 129–178.
Grabowski, J., Harras, G. and Herrmann, T. (eds) 1996. Bedeutung, Konzepte, Bedeutungskon­
zepte: Theorie und Anwendung in Linguistik und Psychologie. Opladen: Westdeutscher
Verlag.
Grice, H. P. 1975. “Logic and Conversation.” In Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 3: Speech Acts, P.
Cole and J. L. Morgan (eds), 41–58. New York: Academic Press.
Gumperz, J. J. and Levinson, S. C. (eds) 1996. Rethinking Linguistic Relativity [Studies in the
Social and Cultural Foundations of Language 17]. Cambridge: CUP.
	 Bibliography	 219
Gumperz, J. J. and Levinson, S. C. 1996. “Introduction: Linguistic Relativity Re-examined.” In
Rethinking Linguistic Relativity, J. J. Gumperz and S. C. Levinson (eds), 1–18.
Harras, G. 1993. “Lexikalische Feldstruktur und kommunikatives Hintergrundwissen: Am
Beispiel deutscher Sprechaktverben.” In P. R. Lutzeier (ed.), 75–86.
Harras, G. 1994. “Unsere Kommunikationswelt in einer geordneten Liste von Wörtern: Zur
Konzeption einer erklärenden Synonymik kommunikativer Ausdrücke des Deutschen.” In
The World in a List of Words, W. Hüllen (ed.), 33–41. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Harras, G. 1995. “Eine Möglichkeit der kontrastiven Analyse von Kommunikationsverben.”
In Von der Allgegenwart der Lexikologie: Kontrastive Lexikologie als Vorstufe zur Zweispra­
chigen Lexikographie. Akten des internationalen Werkstattgesprächs zur kontrastiven
Lexikologie, 29.–30.10.1994, Kopenhagen [Lexikographica Ser. Maior 66], H.-P. Kromann
and A. Kjaer (eds), 103–113. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Harras, G. 1998. “Tendenzen der Lexikalisierung Kommunikativer Konzepte.” (Project pro-
posal to the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft).
Harras, Gisela (ed.) 2001. Kommunikationsverben: Konzeptuelle Ordnung und Semantische
Repräsentation [Studien zur deutschen Sprache 24]. Tübingen: Narr.
Harras, G. 2001. “Performativität, Sprechakte und Sprechaktverben.” In G. Harras (ed.), 11–
32.
Harras, G. 2004. Handlungssprache und Sprechhandlung: Eine Einführung in die theoretisch-
en Grundlagen [de Gruyter Studienbuch]. 2nd revised and augmented ed. Berlin: de
Gruyter.
Harras, G. 2006. “Lexikalisierung von Bewertungen durch Sprechaktverben: Suppositionen,
Präsuppositionen oder generalisierte Implikaturen?” In K. Proost, G. Harras and D. Glatz,
85–128.
Harras, G. and Winkler, E. 1994. “A Model for Describing Speech Act Verbs: The Semantic Base
of a Polyfunctional Dictionary.” In Euralex 1994: Proceedings of the 6th Euralex Conference,
W. Martin et al. (eds), 440–448. Amsterdam.
Harras, G. and Proost, K. 2002. “Strategien der Lemmatisierung von Idiomen.” Deutsche
Sprache 2: 167–183.
Harras, G. and Proost, K. 2005. “The Lexicalization of Speech Act Evaluations in German,
English and Dutch.” In Perspectives on Variation: Sociolinguistic, Historical, Comparative
[Trends in Linguistics: Studies and Monographs], N. Delbecque, J. van der Auwera and D.
Geeraerts (eds), 319–336. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Harras, G., Winkler, E., Erb, S. and Proost, K. 2004. Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsver-
ben. Teil I: Wörterbuch [Schriften des Instituts für Deutsche Sprache 10]. Berlin: Walter de
Gruyter.
Harras, G., Proost, K. and Winkler, E. 2007. Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsverben. Teil
II: Lexikalische Strukturen [Schriften des Instituts für Deutsche Sprache 10]. Berlin: Walter
de Gruyter.
Hermann, U. 2003. Wahrig – Die deutsche Rechtschreibung. Completely revised and augmented
ed., L. Götze (ed.). Gütersloh: Wissen Media Verlag.
Hornby, A. S. 2000. Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary of Current English. 6th ed., S. Weh-
meier (ed.). Oxford: OUP.
Humboldt, W. von 1935. “Über die Verschiedenheit des menschlichen Sprachbaues und ihren
Einfluss auf die Entwickelung des Menschengeschlechts.” In Wilhelm von Humboldt: Werke
in fünf Bänden, A. Flitner and K. Giel (eds) 1963, Vol III: Schriften zur Sprachphilosophie,
368–756. Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft.
220	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Jackendoff, R. 1995. “The Boundaries of the Lexicon.” In Idioms: Structural and Psychological
Perspectives, M. Everaert et al. (eds), 133–165. Hillsdale/NJ: Erlbaum.
Kandler, G. 1973. “Die “Lücke” im sprachlichen Weltbild: Zur Synthese von “Psychologismus”
und “Soziologismus”. In Wortfeldforschung: Zur Geschichte und Theorie des sprachlichen
Feldes, L. Schmidt (ed.), 351–370. Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft.
Klamer, Marian 2002. “Semantically Motivated Lexical Patterns: A Study of Dutch and Kam-
bera Expressives.” Language 78 (2): 258–286.
Kühn, Peter 1985. “Phraseologismen und ihr semantischer Mehrwert: jemandem auf die Finger
gucken in einer Bundestagsrede.” Sprache und Literatur in Wissenschaft und Unterricht 16
(56): 37–46.
Lakoff, G. 1990. Women, Fire and Dangerous Things: What Categories Reveal about the Mind.
Paperback ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Lang, E. 1994. “Semantische vs. konzeptuelle Struktur: Unterscheidung und Überschneidung.”
In Kognitive Semantik: Ergebnisse, Probleme, Perspektiven [Tübinger Beiträge zur Linguis-
tik 395], M. Schwarz (ed.), 9–40. Tübingen: Narr.
Leech, G. N. 1977. Language and Tact. Trier: Linguistic Agency University of Trier.
Leech, G. N. 1983. Principles of Pragmatics [Longman Linguistics Library 30]. London: Long-
man.
Lehrer, A. 1974. Semantic Fields and Lexical Structure [North Holland Linguistic Series 11].
Amsterdam: North Holland.
Levin, B. 1993. English Verb Classes and Alternations: A Preliminary Investigation. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Levinson, S. C. 2001. Presumptive Meanings: The Theory of Generalized Conversational Implica-
ture. Cambridge/MA: MIT Press.
Long, T. H. et al. (eds) 1979. Longman Dictionary of English Idioms. Harlow: Longman.
Lutzeier, P. R. (ed.) 1993. Studien zur Wortfeldtheorie – Studies in Lexical Field Theory [Linguis-
tische Arbeiten 288]. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
McCawley, J. D. 1970. “Syntactic and Logical Arguments for Semantic Structures.” 5th Interna-
tional Seminar on Theoretical Linguistics. Tokyo: TEC Corp.
McCawley, J. D. 1979. “Remarks on the Lexicography of Performative Verbs.” In Adverbs, Vow-
els and Other Objects of Wonder, J. D. McCawley (ed.), Chapter 16. Chicago: Univ. of Chi-
cago Press.
Mel’čuk, I. 2001. “Collocations and Lexical Functions.” In Cowie (ed.), 23–54.
Miller, G. A. and Johnson-Laird, P. N. 1976. Perception and Language. Cambridge: CUP.
Moon, R. 2001. “Frequencies and Forms of Phrasal Lexemes in English.” In Cowie (ed.), 79–
100.
Nunberg, G., Sag, I. A. and Wasow, T. 1994. “Idioms.” Language 70: 491–538.
Olsen, S. 1996. “Pleonastische Direktionale.” In Wenn die Semantik arbeitet: Klaus Baumgärtner
zum 65. Geburtstag, G. Harras and M. Bierwisch (eds), 303–329. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Pabst, C. M. 2004. “Über das Sprechen sprechen: Verbale Phraseologismen im Wortfeld der
sprachlichen Kommunikation.” In J. Tóth (ed.), 80–96.
Proost, K. (2001). “Zum Lexikalisierungsraum kommunikativer Konzepte.” In Harras (ed.),
77–129.
Proost, K. (2004). “Einfache und komplexe Lexikalisierungen in Paradigmen kommunikativer
Ausdrücke.” In Wortverbindungen – mehr der weniger fest [Jahrbuch 2003 des Instituts für
Deutsche Sprache], K. Steyer (ed.), 289–306. Berlin: de Gruyter.
	 Bibliography	 221
Proost, K. 2006a. “Idiome als Lückenfüller?” In K. Proost, G. Harras and D. Glatz, 9–93.
Proost, K. 2006b. “Speech Act Verbs.” In Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, 2nd ed., Vol.
XI, 651–656. Oxford: Elsevier.
Proost, K., Harras, G. and Glatz, D. 2006. Domänen der Lexikalisierung kommunikativer Kon­
zepte [Studien zur deutschen Sprache 33]. Tübingen: Narr.
Rosaldo, M. Z. 1982. “The Things We Do with Words: Ilongot Speech Acts and Speech Act
Theory in Philosophy.” Language in Society 11: 203–237.
Rosch, E. et al. 1976. “Basic Objects in Natural Categories.” Cognitive Psychology 8: 382–439.
Schindler, W. 1993. “Phraseologismen und Wortfeldtheorie.” In P. R. Lutzeier (ed.), 87–106.
Searle, J. R. 1969. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: CUP.
Searle, J. R. 1975. “A Taxonomy of Illocutionary Acts.” In Language, Mind and Knowledge [Min-
nesota Studies in the Philosophy of Science 7], K. Gunderson (ed.), 344–379. Minneapolis:
Univ. of Minnesota Press.
Searle, J. R. 1989. “How Performatives Work.” Linguistics and Philosophy 12: 535–558.
Searle, J. R. and Vanderveken, D. 1985. Foundations of Illocutionary Logic. Cambridge: CUP.
Slobin, D. I. 1996. “From ‘Thought and Language’ to ‘Thinking for Speaking.’” In J. J. Gumperz
and S. C. Levinson (eds), 70–96.
Slobin, D. I. 2003. “Language and Thought Online: Cognitive Consequences of Linguistic Rela-
tivity.” In Language in Mind: Advances in the Investigation of Language and Thought, D.
Gentner and S. Goldin-Meadow (eds), 157–192. Cambridge/MA: MIT Press.
Sperber, D. and Wilson, D. 1986. Relevance: Communication and Cognition. Oxford: Blackwell.
Sweetser, E. 1987. “The Definition of Lie: An Examination of the Folk Theories Underlying
a Semantic Prototype.” In Cultural Models in Language and Thought, D. Holland and N.
Quinn (eds), 43–66. Cambridge: CUP.
Talmy, L. 1985. “Lexicalization Patterns: Semantic Structure in Lexical Forms.” In Language
Typology and Syntactic Description, T. Shopen (ed.), Vol. 3, 57–149. Cambridge: CUP.
Tóth, J. (ed.) 2004. Quo vadis Wortfeldforschung? [Sprache – System und Tätigkeit 49]. Frank-
furt/Main: Lang.
Trier, J. 1934. “Das sprachliche Feld: Eine Auseinandersetzung.” Neue Jahrbücher für Wissen-
schaft und Jugendbildung 10, 428–449. Rpt. in Aufsätze und Vorträge zur Wortfeldtheorie
von Jost Trier [Janua Linguarum. Ser. Minor 174], A. van der Lee and O. Reichmann (eds)
1973, 145–178. The Hague: Mouton.
Ulkan, M. 1992. Zur Klassifikation von Sprechakten: Eine Grundlagentheoretische Fallstudie
[Linguistische Arbeiten 174]. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Vanderveken, D. 1990. Meaning and Speech Acts. Vol. I: Principles of Language Use. Cambridge:
CUP.
Vanparys, J. 1996. Categories and Complements of Illocutionary Verbs in a Cognitive Perspective
[Duisburger Arbeiten zur Sprach- und Kulturwissenschaft 26]. Frankfurt/Main: Lang.
Vendler, Z. 1972. Res Cogitans: An Essay in Rational Psychology. Ithaca: Cornell University
Press.
Vendler, Z. 1976. “Illocutionary Suicide.” In Issues in the Philosophy of Language: Proceedings of
the 1972 Oberlin Colloquium in Philosophy, A. F. MacKay and D. D. Merrill (eds), 135–145.
New Haven: Yale University Press.
Verschueren, J. 1980. On Speech Act Verbs [Pragmatics and Beyond 4]. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
222	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Verschueren, J. 1985. What People Say They Do with Words: Prolegomena to an Empirical-Con-
ceptual Appraoch to Linguistic Action [Advances in Discourse Processes 14]. Norwood/ NJ:
Ablex Publishing Corporation.
Verschueren, J. 1995. “The Conceptual Basis of Performativity.” In Essays in Semantics and
Pragmatics in Honor of Charles J. Fillmore, M. Shibatani and S. Thompson (eds), 299–321.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Verschueren, J. 1998. “Speech Act Verbs.” In Concise Encyclopedia of Pragmatics, J. L. Mey (ed.),
938–941. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Verschueren, J. 1999. Understanding Pragmatics [Understanding Language Series]. London:
Arnold.
Verschueren, J. 2000. “Notes on the Role of Metapragmatic Awareness in Language Use.” Prag-
matics 10 (4): 439–456.
Weinreich, U. 1969. “Problems in the Analysis of Idioms.” In Substance and Structure of Lan-
guage: Lectures delivered before the Linguistic Institute of the Linguistic Society of America,
Univ. of California, Los Angeles, June 17 – August 12, 1966, J. Puhvel (ed.), 23–81. Berkeley
& Los Angeles: Univ. of California Press.
Weisgerber, L. 1954. Vom Weltbild der deutschen Sprache. 2 Vols. 2nd ed. Düsseldorf: Pädago-
gischer Verlag Schwann.
Whorf, B. L. 1940. “Linguistics as an Exact Science.” Technology Review 43: 61–63 & 80–83. Rpt.
in Language, Thought and Reality: Selected Writings of Benjamin Lee Whorf, J. B. Carroll
(ed.) 1956, 220–232. Cambridge/MA: MIT Press.
Wierzbicka, A. 1987. English Speech Act Verbs: A Semantic Dictionary. Sydney: Academic
Press.
Winkler, E. 1996. “Kommunikationskonzepte und Kommunikationsverben.” In J. Grabowski,
G. Harras and T. Herrmann (eds), 256–276.
Winkler, E. 2001. “Aufbau und Gliederung einer Synonymik deutscher Sprechaktverben.” In
Harras (ed.), 195–229.
appendix i
English, German, Dutch, French, Russian
and Turkish speech act verbs
Appendix to Chapter 2: Ordering systems
for concepts of communication
The English, German, Dutch, French, Russian and Turkish data below are ordered
according to the categories of Edmondsons’s ordering system (cf. Chapter 2, Sec-
tion 2.2.3.1). The data from the six languages are presented in two matrices. The
first of these comprises the English, German and Dutch data; the second lists il-
locutionary terms from French, Russian and Turkish. The matrices below differ
from Edmondsons’s matrix (and the revised version of it) presented in Chapter 2
in two ways:
–	 Firstly, complex lexicalisations of the category ‘verb’ are included in addition
to verbs. Edmondson considered only simple lexicalisations. Yet it is possible
in principle that gaps in the word inventory may be filled by complex lexicali-
sations such as idioms and collocations. For this reason, complex lexicalisa-
tions should be taken into account in addition to simple ones.
–	 The second amendment concerns the order in which the data are presented.
Edmondson basically distinguished between past or present events and states
of affairs on the one hand and future events and states of affairs on the other.
All other classification criteria are subordinate to the past/present vs. future
distinction. The question of whether the involvement of S or H in the event
or state of affairs is active or passive comes third in Edmondson’s hierarchy
of classification criteria. I argue that the data may be arranged more clearly
if the [±RESPONSIBLE] criterion is applied prior to all other classification
criteria. Applying the [±RESPONSIBLE] criterion first enables us to separate
cases where S or H is to be held responsible for the event or state of affairs
from such where he/she is not. In what follows, I shall refer to the former as
“actions” and to the latter as “events”. The distinction between actions and
events will be the basis of the matrices containing the data from English, Ger-
man, Dutch, French, Russian and Turkish. All other classification criteria will
224	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
be subordinate to the distinction between actions and events. The matrices
below are based on the following hierarchy of classification criteria:
	 (i)	 [±RESPONSIBLE], i.e. actions vs. events: [+RESPONSIBLE] charac-
	 terises actions, while events carry the feature [–RESPONSIBLE].
	 (ii)	 SPEAKER VS. HEARER INVOLVEMENT IN A
	 (iii)	[±FUTURE]: The event or state of affairs A is located in time sub-
	 sequently to the utterance described by the illocutionary term or it is
	 not.
	 (iv)	A is perceived as having CONSEQUENCES or EFFECTS which are good
	 or bad
	 (v)	 for either S or H.
Figure 1 shows the structure underlying the matrices. In the matrices below, verbs
and multiword expressions occurring only once appear in italics.
Figure 1.  Classification of actions and events
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 225
Matrix A: English/German/Dutch
PAST ACTIONS OF S
1. Past Actions of S; desirable consequences for S
English
boast
brag
show off
praise (oneself)
blow one’s own trumpet
German
angeben
prahlen
protzen
aufschneiden
(sich selbst) rühmen/loben
den Mund (zu) voll nehmen
Dutch
opscheppen
bluffen
opsnijden
snoeven
zichzelf loven/prijzen
2. Past Actions of S; desirable consequences for H
English
boast
brag
show off
praise (oneself)
blow one’s own trumpet
German
angeben
prahlen
protzen
aufschneiden
(sich selbst) rühmen/loben
den Mund (zu) voll nehmen
Dutch
opscheppen
bluffen
opsnijden
snoeven
(zichzelf) loven/prijzen
3. Past Actions of S; undesirable consequences for S
English
deplore (HYBRID)
accuse (oneself)
blame (oneself)
German
(etwas) bedauern (HYBRID)
bereuen (HYBRID)
(sich selbst) beschuldigen
(sich selbst) bezichtigen
(sich selbst) die Schuld geben
Dutch
betreuren (HYBRID)
berouw tonen
(zichzelf) beschuldigen
226	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
4. Past Actions by S; undesirable consequences for H
English
apologise
ask for forgiveness
make one’s apologies/excuses
German
(sich) entschuldigen
um Entschuldigung/
Vergebung/Verzeihung bitten
eine Entschuldigung
aussprechen
Dutch
zich verontschuldigen
iemand om vergeving vragen
zijn verontschuldigingen/
excuses aanbieden
FUTURE ACTIONS OF S
5. Future Action of S; desirable consequences for S
English
renounce
German
verzichten
Dutch
afstand van iets doen
6. Future Action of S; desirable consequences for H
English
promise
make/give a promise
propose
make a proposal
offer
make an offer
German
versprechen
ein Versprechen geben
vorschlagen
einen Vorschlag machen
anbieten
ein Angebot machen/
unterbreiten
Dutch
beloven
een belofte doen
voorstellen
een voorstel doen
aanbieden
een aanbod doen
7. Future Actions of S; undesirable consequences for S
English
∅
German
∅
Dutch
∅
8. Future Actions of S; undesirable consequences for H
English
threaten
menace
utter a threat against
somebody
German
drohen/androhen/bedrohen
Drohungen ausstoßen
Dutch
dreigen/bedreigen
bedreigingen uiten
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 227
PAST ACTIONS OF H
9. Past Actions of H; desirable consequences for S
English
thank
welcome
praise
sing somebody’s praises
German
danken
seinen Dank aussprechen
begrüßen
loben
preisen
ein Loblied auf jmdn.
anstimmen/
singen
jemandes Lob singen
jmdm. ein Lob erteilen
Dutch
danken/ bedanken
begroeten
loven
prijzen
iemand een pluim geven
iemands lof zingen/
verkondigen
10. Past Actions of H; desirable consequences for H
English
praise
sing somebody’s praises
congratulate
compliment
pay somebody a compliment
German
loben
preisen
ein Loblied auf jmdn.
anstimmen/singen
jemandes Lob singen
jmdm. ein Lob erteilen
gratulieren
beglückwünschen
jmdm. ein Kompliment
machen
Dutch
loven
prijzen
iemands lof zingen/
verkondigen
iemand een pluim geven
feliciteren
gelukwensen
iemand een Kompliment
maken
228	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
11. Past actions of H; undesirable consequences for S
English
complain
lament
bewail
bemoan
curse
damn
execrate
pardon
forgive
excuse
accuse
blame
criticise
reprimand
admonish
rebuke
reprove
condemn
German
sich beklagen
sein Leid klagen
Klage führen
ein Klaglied über jmdn.
anstimmen
jammern
lamentieren
sich beschweren
etwas bedauern
jmdn. verfluchen
einen Fluch über jmdn.
aussprechen/verhängen
jmdn. verdammen
jmdn. verwünschen
jmdn. verzeihen
jmdn. entschuldigen
jmdn. beschuldigen
jmdn. bezichtigen
jmdm. die Schuld geben
kritsieren
tadeln
rügen
missbilligen
vorwerfen
jmdm. einen Vorwurf machen
verurteilen
Dutch
zich beklagen
zijn beklag doen
jammeren
betreuren
iem. vervloeken
een vervloeking uitspreken
iem. beschuldigen
beschuldigingen tegen iem.
inbrengen
aantijgen
betichten
kritiseren
berispen
laken
afkeuren
hekelen
verwijten
iem. ergens een verwijt van
maken
veroordelen
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 229
12. Past actions of H; undesirable consequences for H
English
sympathise (HYBRID)
commiserate (HYBRID)
German
jmdn. bedauern (HYBRID)
jmdn. bemitleiden (HYBRID)
jmdn. beweinen
jmdn. beklagen
Dutch
zijn sympathie betuigen
zijn medelijden betuigen
FUTURE ACTIONS OF H
13. Future Actions of H; desirable consequences for S
English
request
demand
require
ask (to do sth.)
beg
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
auffordern
verlangen
fordern
bitten
flehen
anflehen
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
Dutch
eisen
verlangen
vergen
vorderen
vragen (iets te doen)
smeken
verzoeken
profeteren
voorspellen
14. Future Actions of H; desirable consequences for H
English
advise
give advice
propose
suggest
make a suggestion
recommend
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
raten
jmdm. einen Rat geben
vorschlagen
jmdm. einen Vorschlag
machen
empfehlen
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
Dutch
aanraden
raad geven
adviseren
voorstellen
iem. een voorstel doen
aanbevelen
profeteren
voorspellen
230	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
15. Future Actions of H; undesirable consequences for S
English
forbid
prohibit
allow
permit
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
verbieten
untersagen
erlauben
zulassen (HYBRID)
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
schwarzmalen
unken
heraufbeschwören
den Teufel an die Wand
malen
Dutch
verbieden
ontzeggen
toestaan
toelaten
profeteren
voorspellen
16. Future Actions of H; undesirable consequences for H
English
∅
∅
dissuade
discourage
talk sb. out of sth.
allow
permit
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
zumuten
aufbürden
jmdm. etw. aufs Auge drücken
abraten
ausreden
jmdn. von etw. abbringen
erlauben
zulassen (HYBRID)
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
schwarzmalen
unken
heraufbeschwören
den Teufel an die Wand
malen
Dutch
∅
een last op iemands schouders
leggen
afraden
iem. iets uit het hoofd praten
iem. ergens van afbrengen
toestaan
toelaten
profeteren
voorspellen
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 231
PAST EVENTS WITH SPEAKER INVOLVEMENT
17. Past event; S involved; desirable consequences for S
English
boast
brag
show off
praise (oneself)
blow one’s own trumpet
German
angeben
prahlen
protzen
aufschneiden
(sich selbst) rühmen/loben
den Mund (zu) voll nehmen
Dutch
opscheppen
bluffen
opsnijden
snoeven
zichzelf loven/prijzen
18. Past event; S involved; desirable consequences for H
English
∅
German
∅
Dutch
∅
19. Past event; S involved; undesirable consequences for S
English
curse (something)
complain
utter complaints
lament
bewail (oneself)
bemoan (oneself)
German
(etwas) verfluchen
über etwas fluchen
das Schicksal verfluchen
über etwas klagen
Klage führen
ein Klagelied über etwas
anstimmen
sein Leid klagen
jammern
lamentieren
wehklagen
sich selbst bedauern
(HYBRID)
sich selbst beweinen
sich selbst bemitleiden
(HYBRID)
Dutch
(iets) vervloeken
zich beklagen
zijn beklag doen
jammeren
weeklagen
232	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
20. Past event; S involved; undesirable consequences for H
English
commiserate (with sb.)
(HYBRID)
sympathise (with sb.)
(HYBRID)
bemoan (sb.)
bewail (sb.)
German
jmdn. bemitleiden (HYBRID)
jmdn. bedauern (HYBRID)
jmdn. beweinen
jmdn. beklagen
Dutch
zijn sympathie betuigen
FUTURE EVENTS WITH SPEAKER INVOLVEMENT
21. Future events; S involved; desirable consequences for S
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
22. Future events; S involved; desirable consequences for H
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
23. Future events; S involved; undesirable consequences for S
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
schwarzmalen
unken
heraufbeschwören
den Teufel an die Wand
malen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 233
24. Future events; S involved; undesirable consequences for H
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
schwarzmalen
unken
heraufbeschwören
den Teufel an die Wand
malen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
PAST EVENTS WITH HEARER INVOLVEMENT
25. Past events; H involved; desirable consequences for S
English
∅
German
∅
Dutch
∅
26. Past events; H involved; desirable consequences for H
English
congratulate
compliment
pay somebody a compliment
German
gratulieren
beglückwünschen
jmdm. ein Kompliment
machen
Dutch
feliciteren
gelukwensen
iem. een kompliment maken
234	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
27. Past events; H involved; undesirable consequences for S
English
curse (something)
complain
utter complaints
lament
bewail (oneself)
bemoan (oneself)
German
(etwas) verfluchen
über etwas fluchen
das Schicksal verfluchen
über etwas klagen
Klage führen
ein Klagelied über etwas
anstimmen
sein Leid klagen
jammern
lamentieren
wehklagen
sich selbst bedauern
(HYBRID)
sich selbst beweinen
(HYBRID)
sich selbst bemitleiden
(HYBRID)
Dutch
(iets) vervloeken
zich beklagen
zijn beklag doen
jammeren
weeklagen
28. Past events; H involved; undesirable consequences for H
English
commiserate (with sb.)
(HYBRID)
sympathise (with sb.)
(HYBRID)
bemoan (sb.)
bewail (sb.)
German
jmdn. bemitleiden (HYBRID)
jmdn. bedauern (HYBRID)
jmdn. beweinen (HYBRID)
jmdn. beklagen
Dutch
zijn sympathie betuigen
FUTURE EVENTS WITH HEARER INVOLVEMENT
29. Future events; H involved; desirable consequences for S
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 235
30. Future events; H involved; desirable consequences for H
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
31. Future events; H involved; undesirable consequences for S
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
schwarzmalen
unken
heraufbeschwören
den Teufel an die Wand
malen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
32. Future events; H involved; undesirable consequences for H
English
prophesy
predict
foretell
warn
German
prophezeien
vorhersagen
voraussagen
schwarzmalen
unken
heraufbeschwören
den Teufel an die Wand
malen
warnen
Dutch
profeteren
voorspellen
waarschuwen
236	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
Matrix B: French/Russian/Turkish
PAST ACTIONS OF S
1. Past Actions of S; desirable consequences for S
French
se vanter
crâner
afficher
se féliciter de
glorifier ses actes
faire le fanfaron
faire étalage de
Russian
chvastat’sja
zadavat’sja
kičit’sja
zagibat’ (UMG.)
chvalit’sja
bachvalit’sja
Turkish
ağız satmak
avurt etmek/satmak/şişirmek
ağzı ile aslan tuttuğunu
söylemek
atıp tutmak
övünmek
palavra atmak
2. Past Actions of S; desirable consequences for H
French
se vanter
crâner
afficher
se féliciter de
glorifier ses actes
faire le fanfaron
faire étalage de
Russian
chvastat’sja
zadavat’sja
kičit’sja
zagibat’ (UMG.)
chvalit’sja
bachvalit’sja
Turkish
ağız satmak
avurt etmek/satmak/şişirmek
ağzı ile aslan tuttuğunu
söylemek
atıp tutmak
övünmek
palavra atmak
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 237
3. Past Actions of S; undesirable consequences for S
French
regretter (HYBRID)
déplorer (HYBRID)
s’accuser
se culpabiliser
s’imputer la faute
Russian
sožalet’ (HYBRID)
žalet’ (HYBRID)
obvinjat’ sebja
uličat’ sebja
vinit’ samogo sebja
Turkish
üzgün olmak (HYBRID)
pişman olmak (HYBRID)
kendini suçlamak
suçu kendine vermek
4. Past Actions by S; undesirable consequences for H
French
regretter
déplorer
s’excuser
faire/donner ses excuses
demander/implorer pardon
se culpabiliser
Russian
izvinjats’ja
prosit’ izvinenija/proščenija
prinosit’ (svoi) izvinenija
Turkish
özür dilemek
af dilemek
dereden tepeden su getirmek
FUTURE ACTIONS OF S
5. Future Action of S; desirable consequences for S
French
renoncer
Russian
otkazyvat’sja
Turkish
vazgeçmek
6. Future Action of S; desirable consequences for H
French
promettre
donner une/sa promesse
proposer
offrir
Russian
obeščat’
davat’ obeščanija
predlagat’
delat’/vnosit’ predloženije
Turkish
söz vermek
vaat etmek
önermek
öneri yapmak
teklif etmek
bir teklifte bulunmak
238	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
7. Future Actions of S; undesirable consequences for S
French
∅
Russian
∅
Turkish
∅
8. Future Actions of S; undesirable consequences for H
French
menacer
jurer vengeance
Russian
grozit’/prigrozit’/ugrožat’
Turkish
tehdit etmek
PAST ACTIONS OF H
9. Past Actions of H; desirable consequences for S
French
remercier
exprimer sa reconnaissance
louer
louanger
chanter les louages de qn.
exprimer ses louanges
glorifier
célébrer
féliciter
vanter qn.
rendre hommage à qn.
donner des coups d’encensoir
Russian
blagodarit’
vyražat’/prinosit’ blagodarnost’
privetstvovat’
chvalit’
voshvaljat’
prevosnosit’
pet’ difiramby
raschvalivat’
rastočat’ pochvaly
otmečat’ zaslugi
Turkish
teşekkür etmek
memnuniyet ile karşılamak
(HYBRID)
övmek
methetmek
(birinden) takdirle bahsetmek
(biri hakkında) iyi söylemek
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 239
10. Past Actions of H; desirable consequences for H
French
louer
louanger
chanter les louages de qn.
exprimer ses louanges
glorifier
célébrer
féliciter
vanter qn.
donner des coups d’encensoir
féliciter
rendre hommage à qn.
faire un compliment/des
compliments à qn.
complimenter qn.
Russian
chvalit’
voshvaljat’
prevosnosit’
pet’ difiramby
raschvalivat’
rastočat’ pochvaly
otmečat’ zaslugi
pozdravljat’
delat’ kompliment
Turkish
övmek
methetmek
(birinden) takdirle bahsetmek
(biri hakkında) iyi söylemek
tebrik etmek
kutlamak
kompliman yapmak
240	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
11. Past actions of H; undesirable consequences for S
French
se plaindre
râler
rouspéter
faire des jérémiades
maudire
pardonner
accuser
critiquer
réprimander
désapprouver
réprouver
reprocher
faire des reproches à qn.
condamner
Russian
žalovat’sja
žalovat’sja na svoi stradanija
podavat’ žalobu
golosit’
pričitat’
vyražat’ nedovolstvo
(so)žalet’
proklinat’
prizyvat’ prokljat’je na čju-to
golovu
proščat’ kogo-libo
izvinjat’ kogo-libo
obvinjat’ kogo-libo
uličat’ kogo-libo
vinit’ kogo-libo
kritikovat’
rugat’
branit’
poricat’
ne odobrjat’
delat’ komu-libo uprjok
osuždat’
Turkish
şikayet etmek
dert dökmek
birisi için ağlamak
inleyip sızlamak
(bir şeyden dolayı) yakınıp
durmak
şikayet etmek
pişman olmak (HYBRID)
beddua etmek
bela okumak
kahretmek
lanet okumak
birini affetmek
mazur görmek
birini suçlamak
birine suç vermek
eleştirmek
azarlamak
kınamak
tasvip etmek
kusur bulmak
yargılamak
hakkını helal etmek
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 241
12. Past actions of H; undesirable consequences for H
French
plaindre qn. (HYBRID)
complatir qn. (HYBRID)
témoigner sa pitié/
compassion
Russian
žalet’ kogo-libo (HYBRID)
sočuvstvovat’ komu-libo
(HYBRID)
oplakivat’ kogo-libo
zloradstvovat’
Turkish
birisıne acımak
merhamet etmek/göstermek
birine ağlamak
birine ağlamak
FUTURE ACTIONS OF H
13. Future Actions of H; desirable consequences for S
French
demander
exiger
oronner
prier
supplier
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
prizyvat’ k čemu-libo
trebovat’
prosit’
molit’
umoljat’
proročit’
predskazyvat’
Turkish
davet etmek
istemek
talep etmek
rica etmek
arzu etmek
yalvarmak
tefeül etmek
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
14. Future Actions of H; desirable consequences for H
French
conseiller
proposer
recommender
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
sovetovat’
davat’ komu-libo sovet
predlagat’
delat’ predloženije
rekomendovat’
proročit’
predskazyvat’
Turkish
önermek
fikir vermek
nasihat vermek
teklif etmek
bir teklifde bulunmak
tavsiye etmek
peygamberlik etmek
tefeül etmek
tahmin yapmak
242	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
15. Future Actions of H; undesirable consequences for S
French
défendre
interdire
dissuader
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
zapreščat’
vospreščat’
proročit’
predskazyvat’
karkat’
naklikivat’ bedu/opasnost’
Turkish
yasak etmek
yasaklamak
müsade etmek
kabul etmek
tahmin yapmak
kötümsemek
16. Future Actions of H; undesirable consequences for H
French
mettre qc. sur le dos de qn.
déconseiller
dissuader
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
vzvalivat’
vozlagat’ (vzvalivat’) čto-to
komu-to na pleči
navjazyvat’
otsovetovat’
otgovarivat’
uderjivat’ kogo-libo ot čego-
libo
proročit’
predskazyvat’
karkat’
naklikivat’ bedu/opasnost’
Turkish
(birinin) sırtına birşey
yüklemek
tavsiye etmemek
birini birseyden caydırmak
vazgeçirmek
müsade etmek
tahmin yapmak
kötümsemek
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 243
PAST EVENTS WITH SPEAKER INVOLVEMENT
17. Past event; S involved; desirable consequences for S
French
se vanter
crâner
afficher
se féliciter de
glorifier ses actes
faire le fanfaron
faire étalage de
Russian
chvastat’sja
zadavat’sja
kičit’sja
zagibat’ (UMG)
chvalit’sja
bachvalit’sja
Turkish
ağız satmak
avurt etmek/satmak/şişirmek
ağzı ile aslan tuttuğunu
söylemek
atıp tutmak
övünmek
palavra atmak
18. Past event; S involved; desirable consequences for H
French
∅
Russian
∅
Turkish
(hakkını) helal etmek
19. Past event; S involved; undesirable consequences for S
French
maudire
se plaindre (de)/(auprès de
qn.)
déplorer
confier sa douleur
se lamenter sur son sort
se répandre en lamentations
faire des jérémiades
s’appitoyer sur soi-même
(HYBRID)
Russian
proklinat’
kljast’ sud’bu
žalovat’sja
podavat’ žalobu
žalovat’sja na svoi stradanija
golosit’
pričitat’
setovat’
žalet’ sebja (HYBRID)
oplakivat’ sebja (HYBRID)
Turkish
lanetlemek
lanet etmek
şikayet etmek
birşey için ağlamak
dert dökmek
inleyip sızlamak
(bir şeyden dolayı) yakınıp
durmak
ah etmek
kendine ağlamak
kendine acımak (HYBRID)
244	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
20. Past event; S involved; undesirable consequences for H
French
s’appitoyer (HYBRID)
plaindre (qn.) (HYBRID)
déplorer (qn.) (HYBRID)
faire des jérémiades
Russian
žalet’ kogo-libo (HYBRID)
sočuvstvovat’ komu-libo
(HYBRID)
oplakivat’ kogo-libo
Turkish
birine acımak
merhamet etmek
birine ağlamak
FUTURE EVENTS WITH SPEAKER INVOLVEMENT
21. Future events; S involved; desirable consequences for S
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
tefeül etmek
hayra yormak
22. Future events; S involved; desirable consequences for H
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
tefeül etmek
hayra yormak
23. Future events; S involved; undesirable consequences for S
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
karkat’
naklikivat’ bedu/opasnost’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
kötümsemek
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 245
24. Future events; S involved; undesirable consequences for H
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
karkat’
naklikivat’ bedu/opasnost’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
kötümsemek
PAST EVENTS WITH HEARER INVOLVEMENT
25. Past events; H involved; desirable consequences for S
German
∅
Russian
∅
Turkish
∅
26. Past events; H involved; desirable consequences for H
French
féliciter
présenter ses félicitations
faire un compliment/des
compliments à qn.
complimenter qn.
Russian
pozdravljat’
delat’ kompliment
Turkish
tebrik etmek
kutlamak
kompliman yapmak
methetmek
246	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
27. Past events; H involved; undesirable consequences for S
French
maudire
se plaindre (de)/(auprès de
qn.)
déplorer
confier sa douleur
se lamenter sur son sort
se répandre en lamentations
faire des jérémiades
s’appitoyer sur soi-même
(HYBRID)
Russian
proklinat’
proklinat’ sudbu
žalovat’sja
podavat’ žalobu
žalovat’sja na svoi strdanija
golosit’
pričitat’
setovat’
žalet’ sebja (HYBRID)
oplakivat’ sebja (HYBRID)
Turkish
lanetlemek
lanet etmek
şikayet etmek
birşey için ağlamak
dert dökmek
inleyip sızlamak
(bir şeyden dolayı) yakınıp
durmak
ah etmek
kendine ağlamak
kendine acımak (HYBRID)
28. Past events; H involved; undesirable consequences for H
French
s’appitoyer (sur qn.)
(HYBRID)
déplorer qn. (HYBRID)
plaindre qn. (HYBRID)
compatir qn. (HYBRID)
témoigner sa compassion
Russian
žalet’ kogo-libo (HYBRID)
sočuvstvovat’ komu-libo
(HYBRID)
oplakivat’ kogo-libo
(HYBRID)
Turkish
birisine acımak
merhamet etmek
birine ağlamak
FUTURE EVENTS WITH HEARER INVOLVEMENT
29. Future events; H involved; desirable consequences for S
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russin
proročit’
predskazyvat’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
tefeül etmek
hayra yormak
	 Appendix I.  Speech act verbs	 247
30. Future events; H involved; desirable consequences for H
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
tefeül etmek
hayra yormak
31. Future events; H involved; undesirable consequences for S
French
prophétiser
prédire
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
karkat’
naklikivat’ bedu/opasnost’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
kötümsemek
32. Future events; H involved; undesirable consequences for H
French
prophétiser
prédire
avertir
prévenir
Russian
proročit’
predskazyvat’
karkat’
naklikivat’ bedu/opasnost’
predosteregat’
predupreždat’
Turkish
peygamberlik etmek
tahmin yapmak
kötümsemek
uyarmak
appendix ii
German idioms and collocations
Appendix to Chapter 4: Concepts of communication
lexicalised by idioms and collocations
This part of the appendix lists the German idioms and collocations whose lexi-
calisation properties are discussed in Chapter 4. The criteria used for selecting
particular idioms and collocations to be included in the corpus are explained in
Section 4.3. The corpus comprises 676 German idioms and collocations used to
refer to linguistic actions. Expressions with more than one sense as a communi-
cative expression were counted as often as they had different senses. The corpus
comprises 18 such polysemous expressions. 17 of these had two different speech
act-related readings; only one of them turned out to have three such readings.
Polysemous idioms and collocations are marked by a number (1, 2 or 3) follow-
ing the expression in question. These numbers refer to the relevant sense of the
expression.
The idioms and collocations listed in this part of the appendix have been clas-
sified according to their function. Hence, three different kinds of idioms and col-
locations have been listed:
I.	 Complex communicative expressions used as synonyms of speech act verbs
and verbs of communication and such which expand the meaning of these.
II.	 Idioms and collocations constituting hybrid fields of communicative expres-
sions.
III.	Idioms and collocations constituting independent lexical fields.
In Appendix I, idioms and collocations are classified as belonging to or expanding
a particular verb field. These verb fields have been assigned names. For example,
commissives like einwilligen (agree (to do something)) are grouped together in a
field called ‘COMMISSIVES/REACTIVE/POSITIVE’ and expressives like dan-
ken (thank) are part of a field called ‘EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY/THANK’.
The names of the lexical fields listed are the same as those used to label verb
fields in the dictionary volume of the Handbuch deutscher Kommunikationsver-
ben. Underneath the names of the different lexical fields is a short description of
the kind of verbs belonging to each of them. For example, the field named ‘COM-
250	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
MISSIVES/REACTIVE/POSITIVE’ is characterised as containing verbs used to
refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a demand or a preceding utterance
by expressing that he/she wants to do P. The field named ‘EXPRESSIVES/EMO-
TIVE/JOY/THANK’ is described as comprising verbs used to refer to situations
in which a speaker expresses that he/she is grateful for something the hearer has
done to him/her. Underneath these characterisations is a list of idioms and col-
locations which may be used as synonyms of the verbs belonging to a particular
field. These idioms and collocations are followed by complex lexicalisations which
expand the meaning of the verbs belonging to that field. These idioms and col-
locations are listed under headings such as ‘DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/GENERAL
+ X’ (where “X” stands for the part of the meaning of an idiom or collocation
which goes beyond the meaning of a corresponding verb). Idioms and colloca-
tions expanding the meaning of verbs have been grouped according to the way in
which they expand the meaning of these verbs (e.g. ‘DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/
GENERAL + MODALITY’, ‘DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/GENERAL + SPECIFI-
CATION of P’ etc.).
Each of the complex communicative expressions listed is followed by a char-
acterisation of its lexical status. This means that each expression has been classi-
fied as being a collocation (abbreviated as “COLL”), a fully idiomatic expression
(abbreviated as “I”) or a semi-idiomatic expression (abbreviated as “SI”).
The figures following the idiom list illustrate the relative importance of the
functions which idioms and collocations fulfil in the lexicalisation domain of
communicative expressions.
I.	 Idioms as synonyms of speech act verbs and verbs of communication/idioms
expanding the meaning of speech act verbs and verbs of communication
GENERAL VERBS OF SAYING
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker utters something to a hearer
sagen, sprechen, sich äußern (‘say’, ‘speak’, ‘utter’)
einer Sache Ausdruck geben/ verleihen – COLL; etw. zum Ausdruck bringen – COLL; etw. laut
werden lassen – COLL; etw. vom Stapel lassen – I; etw. in Worte kleiden – I
GENERAL VERBS OF SAYING + X
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: somebody’s favourite theme:
seinem/ dem Affen Zucker geben – I
P: something which oppresses S:
Luft ablassen – I
P: many trivial Utt (P):
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 251
das Blaue vom Himmel (herunter) reden – SI; (leere) Phrasen dreschen – I; leeres Stroh dre-
schen – I
P: a delicate issue:
in ein Wespennest greifen/ stechen – I
P: something which somebody else was about to say:
jmdm. das Wort aus dem Mund(e)/ von der Zunge nehmen - I
X: MODALITY
Modality: directly
jmdm. etw. ins Gesicht sagen – SI
Modality: laboriously:
einen langen Salm machen – I; mit (den) Händen und Füßen reden – SI
Modality: boldly, pertly:
den Mund/ das Maul/ die Klappe aufreißen – I; die Schnauze/ den Schnabel aufmachen – I;
eine (dicke/ große) Lippe riskieren – I
Modality: correctly and truly:
den Nagel auf den Kopf treffen – I
Modality: accurately:
etw. auf den Punkt bringen – I
Modality: incessantly:
ohne Punkt und Komma reden – SI; reden wie ein Buch/ ein Wasserfall – SI
Modality: not clearly:
in Rätseln reden/sprechen – SI
Modality: frankly:
reden, wie einem der Schnabel gewachsen ist – SI; frei/ frisch von der Leber weg reden/ spre-
chen – SI
Modality: briefly:
sich kurz fassen – I
Modality: incoherently:
einen Stiefel (zusammen)reden – SI
Modality: energetically:
auf den Tisch hauen/ schlagen – I
Modality: improperly:
sich im Ton vergreifen – I
Modality: inaccurately:
ins unreine sprechen – SI
Modality: eloquently:
mit tausend Zungen reden – SI; mit Engelszungen reden – SI
X: RESULT
Result: without effect:
sich den Mund fusselig reden – SI
Result: without effect (+ many Utt(P)):
tauben Ohren predigen – I; gegen eine Wand/ Mauer reden – I; in den Wind reden – I
252	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
General verbs of saying
Total: 36
	 Inside lexical fields: 		  5
		 Collocations: 		  3
		 Non-literal Idioms: 		  2
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  0
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	 31
		 Collocations:		  0
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 18
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	 13
_________________________________________________________________________
REPRESENTATIVES
1. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/CLAIM
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker claims something to be true
behaupten (‘claim’)
den Beweis für etw. antreten – SI; etw. zu bedenken geben – COLL; ein Urteil fällen 1 – COLL
cf. DECLARATIVES/JUDICIARY
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/CLAIM + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: S innocent:
seine Hände in Unschuld waschen – I
P: S is witness to something:
jmdn. als Zeugen anrufen – COLL
2. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/FESTSTELLEN
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker wants to draw attention to something which
is self-evident
feststellen, konstatieren (English: ‘state’)
eine Feststellung treffen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/FESTSTELLEN + X: 0
3. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/H RESPONSIBLE FOR P
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she thinks that the hearer
is responsible for P; P is considered to be bad
beschuldigen, bezichtigen (‘accuse’):
jmdm. Schuld (an etw.) geben – COLL
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 253
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/H RESPONSIBLE FOR P+ X:
X: EVALUATION
Evaluation by SDS: HRS is unjustly accused:
jmdm. etw. in die Schuhe schieben – I; jmdm. die Schuld an etw. in die Schuhe schieben – SI
4. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/LIE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker wants a hearer to recognise that he/she (i.e.
S) takes P to be true, while he/she (i.e. S) does not take P to be true
lügen (‘lie’)
jmdm. einen Bären aufbinden – I; jmdn. über den Löffel barbieren/balbieren (lügen) – I; jmdm.
blauen Dunst vormachen – I; das Blaue von Himmel herunter lügen/ schwindeln – SI; jmdm.
die Hucke/die Jacke voll lügen – SI; lügen, dass sich die Balken biegen – SI; lügen wie gedruckt –
SI; einem vom Pferd/ vom Wald erzählen – I
irreführen (‘mislead’)
jmdn. in die Irre führen/ leiten/ locken – I; jmdn. auf die falsche Fährte locken – I; jmdn. auf
Glatteis führen – I; jmdn. auf den Leim führen/ locken – I
täuschen (‘deceive’)
jmdn. hinters Licht führen – I; jmdn. zum Narren halten – I; jmdn. an der Nase herumfüh-
ren – I; jmdm. Sand in die Augen streuen – I; sein Spiel mit jmdm. treiben – I; einen Türken
bauen – I; jmdm. ein X für ein U vormachen – I
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/LIE + X:
X: MODALITY
Modality: directly:
jmdm. ins Gesicht lügen – SI
Modality: ambigously:
mit gespaltener Zunge reden – I
5. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/NOT P
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she no longer takes some-
thing to be true or valid
widerrufen, zurücknehmen, zurückziehen, dementieren (‘revoke’, ‘deny’)
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/NOT P + X: 0
6. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/INTENSIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker emphatically expresses that he/she takes
something to be true
beteuern, bekräftigen, versichern, beschwören (‘assure’, ‘affirm’, ‘aver’, ‘swear’)
seine/ die Hand für jmdn./ etw. ins Feuer legen – I; Stein und Bein schwören – SI
254	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/INTENSIVE + X: 0
7. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REACTIVE/YES
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a hearer’s statement by expressing
that he/she takes P to be true
beipflichten, zustimmen (‘agree’, ‘concur’, ‘consent’)
jmdm. recht geben – COLL; seine Zustimmung geben/ erteilen 1 – COLL, Cf. DIRECTIVES/
REQUEST/PERMIT
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REACTIVE/YES + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: the opinion of the majority:
mit dem Strom schwimmen – I
X: MODALITY
Modality: completely:
jedes Wort unterschreiben – I
8. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REACTIVE/DOUBT: P
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a hearer’s statement by expressing
his/her doubts
anzweifeln, bezweifeln (‘doubt’)
etw. in Zweifel ziehen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REACTIVE/DOUBT+ X: 0
9. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REACTIVE/NO
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a hearer’s statement by expressing
that he/she takes P not to be true
abstreiten, bestreiten, dementieren, kontern (‘dispute’, ‘contest’, ‘deny’)
etw. in Abrede stellen – I; etw. in Frage stellen (bestreiten) – I; schweres/ grobes Geschütz auf-
fahren – I; Kontra geben – I; jmdm./ etw. Paroli bieten – I; wider den Stachel lecken/ löcken – I;
jmdm./ einer Sache die Stirn bieten – I; jmdm. Unrecht geben – COLL; etw. von sich weisen – I
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REACTIVE/NO + X
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: reproach: – sich seiner Haut wehren – I
P: the opinion of the majority: – gegen/ wider den Strom schwimmen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 255
10. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REREACTIVE/ YET P
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a reactive statement of a hearer by
expressing that he/she still takes P to be true
bestehen auf, beharren auf, pochen auf (‘insist (on something being the case)’)
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REREACTIVE/YET P + X
X: MODALITY
Modality: emphatically:
auf sein Recht pochen 1 – COLL, cf. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/DEMAND/REACTIVE
11. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REREACTIVE/RATHER NOT P
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a reactive statement of a hearer by
expressing that he/she takes not P to be true
einlenken, einräumen, nachgeben, entgegenkommen (‘give in’, ‘yield’)
einen Kompromiss eingehen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/REREACTIVE/RATHER NOT P + X:
X: MODALITY
Modality: humbly:
klein beigeben – I
Modality: reciprocally:
sich auf halbem Weg(e) treffen – I; jmdm. auf halbem Weg(e) entgegenkommen – I
12. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/SEQUENCE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker utters several Utt(P) to express that he/she
takes something to be true
argumentieren (‘argue’)
Argumente vorführen/ anführen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/SEQUENCE + X: 0
13. REPRESENTATIVES/ASERTIVES/RESULT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker presents several arguments to make a hearer
believe something to be true
überzeugen (‘convince’)
jmdm. etw. glauben machen – I; jmdm. ein Kind in den Bauch reden – I; jmdm. etw. in die
Ohren blasen – I; jmdm. etw. in den Mund legen – I; jmdn. auf seine Seite bringen/ ziehen – I;
jmdn. zur Einsicht bringen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/RESULT + X: 0
256	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
14. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/INFORMATION
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs a hearer of something (P)
mitteilen (‘inform’)
jmdm. Bescheid sagen (jmdn. benachrichtigen) – COLL; jmdn. über etw. ins Bild setzen (in-
formieren) – I; (etw.) von sich hören lassen – I; jmdn. von etw. in Kenntnis setzen – COLL;
jmdm. etw. zur Kenntnis bringen – COLL; jmdm. ein Licht aufstecken – I; etw. an den Mann
bringen – I; jmdn. schlau machen – I; jmdn. etw. wissen lassen – COLL
berichten (‘report’)
Bericht geben/ erstatten – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/INFORMATION + X
X: RESULT
Result: without effect:
sich um den (um seinen) Hals/ Kopf und Kragen reden – SI
Result: H annoyed:
jmdm. die Ohren voll blasen/ schwätzen – I
Result: H has a wish which cannot be fulfilled:
jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr setzen – I
Result: H wishes something:
jmdm. den Mund wässrig machen – I
Result: H disillusioned:
jmdm. den Zahn ziehen – I
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: something which oppresses S:
seinem Herzen Luft machen – I
P: something disagreeable:
jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu schlucken geben – I
P: something which is already well-known:
die alte Platte laufen lassen/ spielen – I; die alte/die gleiche/dieselbe Walze auflegen/ spielen – I
P: a justification or reason for S’s action:
jmdm. über etw. Rechenschaft geben/ ablegen – COLL
P: the truth about a certain state of affairs:
jmdm. reinen/ klaren Wein einschenken – I
X: SPECIFICATION (P) + RESULT
P: something which is not supposed to be known by H:
jmdm. etw. auf die Nase binden – I
X: MODALITY
Modality: directly:
jmdm. etw. auf den Kopf zusagen – I
Modality: laboriously:
auf/ über die Dörfer gehen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 257
Modality: elaborately:
Romane/ einen ganzen Roman erzählen – SI
Modality: formally:
etw. auf den Tisch des Hauses legen – I
X: ASPECT
Aspect: iterative
jmdn. auf dem laufenden halten – I
15. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/MENTION
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker gives information on a certain topic
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/MENTION + X: 0
16. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/REMIND
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reminds a hearer of something (P)
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/REMIND + X: 0
17. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/ZUTRAGEN
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs a hearer of something which is not
supposed to be known by that hearer; knowing P is to the interest of H
hinterbringen (English: ∅)
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/ZUTRAGEN + X: 0
18. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/REVEAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something which is secret and
not to be made public
enthüllen, preisgeben, verraten, aufdecken (‘reveal’, ‘uncover’, ‘disclose’, ‘divulge’, ‘betray’)
die Hosen runterlassen – I; die Katze aus dem Sack lassen – I; aus dem Nähkästchen plau­
dern – I; den Schleier (des Geheimnisses) lüften – I; etw. an den Tag bringen – I
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/REVEAL + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: the internal affairs of a specific soial group:
aus der Schule plaudern – I
X: MODALITY
Modality: directly:
258	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
das Kind beim (rechten/ richtigen) Namen nennen – I; die Dinge beim Namen nennen – I;
Ross und Reiter nennen – SI
X: EVALUATION
schmutzige Wäsche waschen – I (negative evaluation of P)
19. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/CONFIDENTIAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs a hearer about something which is
meant to be known by nobody but that hearer
anvertrauen (‘entrust’, ‘confide’)
jmdn. ins Vertrauen ziehen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/CONFIDENTIAL + X
X: SPECIFICATION (P) + RESULT
P: Something which oppresses S + Result: something which concerns S:
jmdm. sein Herz ausschütten – I; sich etw. vom Herzen reden – I
20. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/FUTURE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that something will be the case
in the future
ankündigen, vorhersagen (‘announce’, ‘predict’)
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/FUTURE + X:0
21. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/FUTURE/WARN
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she does not want a hearer
to do something which he/she expects to have negative consequences for that hearer
warnen (‘warn’)
Alarm schlagen – SI; – eine Warnung aussprechen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/FUTURE/WARN + X: 0
22. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/PUBLIC
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker informs several hearers of something (P)
bekanntmachen, verbreiten (‘spread’, ‘circulate’, ‘disseminate’, ‘propagate’)
etw. an die große Glocke hängen – I; etw. ans Licht bringen/ ziehen/ zerren – I; eine Mitteilung
machen – COLL; etw. unter die Leute/ unters Volk bringen – I; etw. in Umlauf bringen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 259
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/PUBLIC + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: unreliable information:
etw. in die Welt setzen – I (unreliable: negative evaluation by SDS)
23. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SUGGEST
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker indirectly informs a hearer of something
(P)
suggerieren, insinuieren (‘suggest’, ‘insinuate’)
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SUGGEST + X: 0
24. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/TRANSMIT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker provides a hearer with information he/she
has obtained from a third person
übermitteln, überbringen, ausrichten, bestellen (‘transmit’, ‘convey’)
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/TRANSMIT + X: 0
25. REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker utters several Utt(P) to explain something
exactly
erklären, klarmachen, darlegen, verdeutlichen, nahe bringen (‘explain’, ‘clarify’, ‘elucidate’, ‘ex-
pound’)
jmdm. etw. schmackhaft machen – I
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: something which is not clear:
etw. ins reine bringen – I; klar Schiff machen – I
P: the truth about a state of affairs about which H was wrongly informed:
jmdm. die Binde von den Augen reißen/ nehmen – I
Representatives
Total: 112
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 70
		 Collocations: 		 19
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 44
		 Semi- literal idioms: 	  7
260	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	 42
		 Collocations: 		  3
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 34
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  5
_________________________________________________________________________
DIRECTIVES
1. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/GENERAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants a hearer to do
something
auffordern, ersuchen (‘request’, ‘ask (someone to do something)’), mahnen1, ermahnen1 (‘ex-
hort’, ‘urge’)
jmdm. auf den Fuß (die Füße)/ die Hühneraugen treten – I, cf. XPR.VAL.NEG.RESULT
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/GENERAL + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: H must leave:
jmdm. jmdn. auf den Hals hetzen/ schicken – I + Pres(S): X does not want to meet H; jmdn. auf
den Mond schießen – I; jmdm. die Tür weisen – I; jmdn. zur Tür hinaus befördern – I; jmdn.
vor die Tür setzen – I
P: H is to go voting:
jmdn. zu den Urnen rufen – I
P: something which has negative conseqeunces for H:
jmdm. etw. aufs Auge drücken – I; jmdm. etw. ans Bein binden – I; jmdm. etw. unter die Weste
jubeln/ schieben – I
P: H is to show discipline:
jmdn. zur Ordnung rufen – COLL
X: MODALITY
Modality: fast:
jmdm. in den Hintern/ den Arsch treten – I; jmdm. Feuer unter dem Hintern/ Arsch/ Schwanz/
Frack machen – I; jmdm. Pfeffer in den Arsch blasen – I; jmdm. (lange) Beine machen – I;
jmdm. Dampf machen – I; jmdn. auf Draht/ auf Trab/ auf Zack bringen – I; jmdm. auf den Sack
treten 1 – I (Modality: fast + stylistic register ‘rude’) cf. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGA-
TIVE/REPROACH
2. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/DEMAND
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker emphatically expresses that he/she wants a
hearer to do something
fordern, einfordern, anfordern (‘demand’, ‘require’, ‘claim’)
seinen Anspruch/ Ansprüche geltend machen/ erheben – COLL; Forderungen stellen – COLL;
jmdm. ein Rechnung aufmachen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 261
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/DEMAND + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: justification for H’s action:
von jmdm. Rechenschaft über etw. fordern/ verlangen – COLL; jmdn. zur Rede stellen – I
3. DIRECTIVES/ASK/NEUTRAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker politely expresses that he/she wants a hearer
to do something
bitten, ersuchen, nachsuchen, sich ausbitten (‘ask (someone to do something)’, ‘seek’, ‘solicit’)
in/ wegen einer Sache bei jmdm. vorstellig werden – I; sich wegen/ in einer Sache an jmdn.
wenden – COLL; ein Gesuch einreichen – COLL; eine Bitte äußern – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/NEUTRAL + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: H should listen:
um Gehör bitten – SI
P: marriage proposal:
um jmds. Hand anhalten – I; jmdm. um die Hand seiner Tochter bitten – SI
P: S should say something:
ums Wort bitten – I
4. DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker politely expresses that he/she is anxious for
H to do something
flehen, betteln (‘implore’, ‘entreat’, ‘beseech’)
bitten und betteln (inständig bitten) – COLL; jmdm. zu Füßen fallen (bitten) – I; jmdm. in
den Ohren liegen – I; jmdm. auf der Seele knien – I; jmdm. die Tür einlaufen/ einrennen – I;
jmdm. zureden wie einem lahmen Gaul/ einem kranken Schimmel/ einem kranken Pferd/ ei-
nem kranken Ross/ einem kranken Kind – I
DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENT + X:
X: RESULT
Result: S obtains something:
jmdm. etw. aus dem Kreuz leiern – I
5. DIRECTIVES/ADMONISH
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants a hearer to do
something; S may reasonably expect H to do P
mahnen2, ermahnen2 (‘admonish’)
eine Mahnung aussprechen – COLL
262	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
DIRECTIVES/ADMONISH + X: 0
6. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/FORBID
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she does not want a hearer
to do something
abschlagen, abweisen (‘decline’, ‘reject’)
jmdm. eine Abfuhr erteilen (abschlagen, verweigern) – I; jmdn. abschlägig bescheiden – I
unterbinden, untersagen, verbieten (‘forbid’, ‘prohibit’)
einer Sache Einhalt gebieten – I; einer Sache einen Riegel vorschieben – I; jmdm. einen Strich
durch die Rechnung machen – I; ein Verbot aussprechen – COLL; jmdm. /etw. Einhalt ge­
bieten – COLL; jmdm. einen Schuss vor den Bug geben – I
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/FORBID + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: enter the house:
jmdm. das Haus verbieten – SI
P: express one’s opinion:
jmdm. den/ einen Maulkorb anlegen – I; jmdm. den Mund/ das Maul verbieten – SI; jmdm.
das Maul stopfen – I
P: H should talk:
jmdm. das Wort entziehen – I
X: PRESUPPOSITION(S)
Presupposition (S): H is not authorized to do P or not capable of doing P
jmdn. in die Schranken weisen – I
7. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/PERMIT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she does not want a hearer
not to do something
bewilligen, billigen, erlauben (‘permit’, ‘allow’, ‘sanction’)
jmdm. etw. zuteil werden lassen – I; jmdm. einen Freibrief für etw. geben/ ausstellen – I; grünes
Licht geben – I; seine Zustimmung geben/ erteilen – COLL cf. REPRESENTATIVES/AS-
SERTIVES/REACTIVE/YES; jmdm. die/ seine Einwilligung/ Erlaubnis/ Genehmigung geben/
erteilen – COLL
zubilligen, zugestehen (‘grant’, ‘concede’)
Zugeständnisse machen – COLL; jmdm. eine Gunst erweisen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/PERMIT + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: H is free to speak:
jmdm. das Wort geben/ erteilen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 263
P: a wish of H:
einem Wunsch entsprechen – COLL
P: a request of H:
einer Forderung entsprechen – COLL
P: a polite request of H:
einer Bitte stattgeben/ entsprechen – COLL
P: something which has been applied for:
einem Antrag entsprechen – COLL
8. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/DEMAND/REACTIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she insists that a hearer
do P
bestehen auf, pochen auf (‘insist (that someone do something)’)
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/DEMAND/REACTIVE + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
auf sein Recht pochen – COLL cf. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVES/REREACTIVE
9. DIRECTIVES/ADVISE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker tells a hearer that he/she thinks that it would
be good for him/her to perform a certain action
raten, vorschlagen, empfehlen (‘advise’, ‘recommend’, ‘propose’)
jmdm. jmdn./ etw. ans Herz legen – I; jmdm. etw. mit auf den Weg geben – I; jmdm. einen
Rat geben/ erteilen – COLL; jmdm. einen Ratschlag erteilen – COLL; jmdm. einen Vorschlag
machen/ unterbreiten – COLL; jmdm. eine Empfehlung geben – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ADVISE + X: 0
10. DIRECTIVES/INVITE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that a hearer should do something
together with S
einladen, laden zu, bitten zu (‘invite (someone to do something)’)
eine Einladung aussprechen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/INVITE + X:0
11. DIRECTIVES/APPEAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker emphatically expresses that several hearers
should do something which is morally good or of general interest
264	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
appellieren, aufrufen (‘appeal’)
einen Appell an jmdn. richten – COLL
DIRECTIVES/APPEAL + X: 0
12. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/INTRODUCE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker wants to make sure that a hearer performs a
certain action correctly by giving H instructions as to how he/she should perform that action
anleiten (‘guide’, ‘introduce’)
Anleitungen geben – COLL; jmdn. mit etw. vertraut machen – COLL
instruieren (‘instruct’)
Anweisungen geben/ erteilen 1 – COLL, cf. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/ASSIGN; Unterricht ge-
ben/ erteilen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/INTRODUCE + X: 0
13. DIRECTIVES/APPLY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker applies for something
beantragen, ersuchen (‘apply’)
einen Antrag stellen – COLL; ein Gesuch einreichen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/APPLY + X: 0
14. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/CHARGE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that a hearer should to something
for which H is responsible.
aufgeben, auftragen, beauftragen (‘charge’, ‘commission’)
etw. (bei jmdm.) in Auftrag geben – COLL; jmdm. einen Auftrag erteilen/ geben – COLL;
jmdm. eine Aufgabe stellen/ geben – COLL; Aufgaben verteilen – COLL
bestellen (‘order’, ‘reserve’, ‘book’)
eine Bestellung aufgeben – COLL; sich das Anrecht auf etw. sichern – COLL
bevollmächtigen, berechtigen (‘empower’, ‘authorise’)
jmdm. eine Vollmacht erteilen – COLL; jmdm. die Berechtigung verleihen/ geben – COLL;
jmdm. die Befugnis geben/ erteilen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/CHARGE + X
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: a difficult task:
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 265
jmdm. eine harte Nuss zu knacken geben – I
P: the creation of a particular product:
etw. in Arbeit geben – SI
X: MODALITY
Modality: urgently:
jmdm. etw. auf die Seele binden – I
15. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/ORDER
Verbs used to refer to situations in which an authorised speaker expresses that a hearer should
do P
befehlen (‘order’)
jmdm. einen Befehl geben/ erteilen – COLL; jmdm. Order geben/ erteilen 1 – COLL, cf. DI-
RECTIVES/REQUEST/ASSIGN
einberufen (‘convoke’, ‘convene’)
jmdn. zu den Waffen/ Fahnen rufen – I
kommandieren (‘command’)
ein Kommando erteilen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/ORDER + X: 0
16. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/ASSIGN
Verbs used to refer to situations in which an authorised speaker utters one or more Utt(P)
within the framework of an institutionally settled procedure to express that he/she wants a
hearer to do P
anordnen, anweisen (‘decree’, ‘direct’)
eine Anordnung treffen/ jmdm. eine Anordnung erteilen – COLL; eine Verordnung erlassen
COLL; jmdm. Order geben/ erteilen 2 – COLL; cf. DIRECTIVES/ REQUEST/ORDER; – Auf­
lagen erteilen – COLL; Anweisungen geben/ erteilen 2 – COLL, cf. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/
INTRODUCE; eine Verfügung treffen/ erlassen – COLL; etw. in die Wege leiten – I
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/ASSIGN + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: dictate + Specification of P; P: a pattern of behaviour:
jmdn. am Gängelband haben/ führen/ halten – I
17. DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/RESULT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker utters several Utt(P) to make a hearer do P
überreden (‘persuade’)
266	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/RESULT + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: a particulat pattern of behaviour:
jmdn. zur Räson bringen – I
P: H is not to give up:
jmdn. bei der Stange halten – I
18. DIRECTIVES/ASK/GENERAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker asks a hearer a question
sich erkundigen, fragen, sich informieren, befragen, erfragen (‘ask’, ‘inquire’, ‘inform oneself’)
etw. in Erfahrung bringen (ermitteln) – COLL; eine Frage/ Fragen stellen/ vorbringen/ an jmdn.
richten – COLL; um Auskunft bitten – COLL; Auskünfte/ Informationen einholen – COLL;
um Auskunft nachsuchen – COLL; Informationen erbitten – COLL; bei jmdm. um Informa-
tion nachsuchen – COLL; Erkundigungen einziehen – COLL; eine Frage/ Fragen aufwerfen –
COLL; um Aufschluss bitten – COLL; eine Anfrage an jmdn. richten – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/GENERAL + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: additional questions:
Zusatzfragen stellen – COLL
X: MODALITY
Modality: exhaustively:
etw. auf den Grund gehen – I
19. DIRECTIVES/ASK/REACTIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a preceding utterance by posing
a question
nachfragen, zurückfragen (English: ∅)
eine Gegenfrage stellen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/REACTIVE + X: 0
20. DIRECTIVES/ASK/PERSISTENTLY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker persistently asks a hearer several questions
ausfragen, ausquetschen, bedrängen, bestürmen, bohren, ... (‘pump’)
jmdn. mit Fragen überhäufen/ bestürmen/ überschütten – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/PERSISTENTLY + X:
X: RESULT
Result: H annoyed:
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 267
jmdm. ein Loch/ Löcher in den Bauch/ den Arsch fragen – SI; jmdm. die Seele aus den Leib
fragen – SI
21. DIRECTIVES/ASK/QUESTION
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker asks a hearer several questions
ausforschen, aushorchen, ausfragen, ausloten, ergründen, erkunden, abklopfen, nachforschen
(‘question’, ‘investigate’)
auf den Busch klopfen – I; jmdm. auf den Zahn/ Puls fühlen 2 – I, cf. DIRECTIVES/ ASK/
TEST; Ermittlungen/ Nachforschungen/ Recherchen anstellen – COLL
entlocken (‘elicit’, ‘worm (something out of someone)’)
jmdm. jedes Wort (einzeln) aus der Nase ziehen – I; jmdm. die Würmer (einzeln) aus der Nase
ziehen – I
DIRECTIVES/ASK/QUESTION + X: 0
22. DIRECTIVES/ASK/MASS
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker asks several hearers several questions
rumfragen (English: ∅)
eine Umfrage durchführen/ machen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/MASS + X: 0
23. DIRECTIVES/ASK/TEST
Verbs used to refer to situations in which an examiner asks an examinee questions
abfragen, examinieren, prüfen (‘test’, ‘examine’)
jmdm. auf den Zahn/ Puls fühlen 2 – I, cf. DIRECTIVES/ASK/QUESTION; jmdn. einer Prü-
fung/ einem Examen unterziehen – COLL; eine Prüfung/ ein Examen abnehmen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/TEST + X: 0
24. DIRECTIVES/ASK/INTERVIEW
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker asks a hearer several questions; S or H is an
authorised or competent person
interviewen, befragen, fragen (‘interview’, ‘ask’)
ein Interview führen – COLL
268	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
verhören, befragen, vernehmen (‘interrogate’)
jmdn. ins Verhör nehmen – COLL; ein Verhör/ eine Vernehmung durchführen – COLL; jmdn.
einem Verhör/ einer Vernehmung unterziehen – COLL; eine Befragung durchführen – COLL
konsultieren (‘consult’)
jmdn. zu Rate ziehen – COLL; jmdn. um Rat fragen – COLL
DIRECTIVES/ASK/INTERROGATE + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: questions concerning a particular person:
jmdn. zur Person befragen/ vernehmen – COLL (P: Fragen zur Person)
Directives:
Total: 142
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 95
		 Collocations: 		 69
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 26
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  0
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	 47
		 Collocations:		  9
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 31
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  7
_________________________________________________________________________
COMMISSIVES
1. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants to do something
which is to the hearer’s interest
versprechen, sich verpflichten, versichern, zusichern (‘promise’, ‘bind oneself’, ‘commit oneself’,
‘assure’)
ein Versprechen geben/ machen – COLL; sein Wort/ Ehrenwort geben – I; jmdm. etw. in Aus-
sicht stellen – COLL; eine Verpflichtung eingehen1 – COLL, cf. COMMISSIVES/ GUARAN-
TEE & COMMISSIVES/PROMISE/VOW; jmdm. Brief und Segel geben – I; eine Zusicherung
machen – COLL
schwören (‘swear’)
jmdm. etw. hoch und heilig versprechen – SI (versprechen + Intensivierung)
geloben (‘vow’, ‘pledge’)
ein Gelöbnis ablegen 1- COLL, cf. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE/VOW
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 269
COMMISSIVES/PROMISE + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: promises which are impossible to keep:
jmdm. goldene Berge versprechen – SI; jmdm. das Blaue vom Himmel (herunter) verspre-
chen – SI; jmdm. den Himmel auf Erden versprechen – SI
X: MODALITY
Modality: by shaking hands:
jmdm. etw. mit Handschlag versprechen – SI
2. COMMISSIVES/REACTIVE/POSITIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a demand or a preceding utterance
by expressing that he/she wants to do P
einwilligen, zusagen (‘agree (to do something)’)
eine Zusage machen/ erteilen – COLL
COMMISSIVES/REACTIVE/POSITIVE + X: 0
3. COMMISSIVES/REACTIVE/NEGATIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker reacts to a demand by expressing that he/
she does not want to do P
ablehnen, verweigern (‘refuse’)
jmdm. eine Abfuhr erteilen 1 – I, vgl. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/
REPROACH
protestieren (‘protest’)
auf die Barrikaden gehen/steigen – I; mit der Faust auf den Tisch hauen – I; gegen jmdn. zu
Felde ziehen – I; Front gegen jmdn./ etw. machen – I; sich zur Wehr setzen – I; jmdm. die Zähne
zeigen – I; gegen etw. Sturm laufen – I
COMMISSIVES/REACTIVE/NEGATIVE + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: a proposal/ an offer/ an invitation:
jmdm. einen Korb geben – I
4. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE/RENOUNCE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she definitely does not/no
longer want(s) to do P; P is to the interest of S
verzichten, entsagen (‘renounce’)
von etw. Abstand nehmen – I; seinen Verzicht erklären – COLL; Verzicht leisten – COLL
270	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
5. COMMISSIVES/OFFER
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses without committing him-/herself
that he/she wants to do something
anbieten, sich erbieten (‘offer’)
jmdm. ein Angebot machen/ unterbreiten – COLL; jmdm. eine Offerte machen – COLL
sich erbieten (‘volunteer’)
sich anheischig machen – I; sich zu etw. bereit erklären – COLL; sich zur Verfügung stellen –
COLL
COMMISSIVES/OFFER + X: 0
6. COMMISSIVES/ARRANGE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker and a hearer express that they want to do
something together
vereinbaren, abmachen, absprechen, sich zu/ auf etwas verständigen, übereinkommen (‘agree’, ‘ar-
range’)
ein Übereinkommen/ eine Vereinbarung/ eine Absprache/ eine Abmachung treffen – COLL
COMMISSIVES/ARRANGE + X: 0
7. COMMISSIVES/GUARANTEE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she will definitely do P or
will make sure that P will come about
versichern, garantieren, bürgen, sich verpflichten (‘guarantee’, ‘commit oneself’, ‘vouch (for some-
thing)’, ‘answer (for something)’)
die Garantie/ Bürgschaft geben/ übernehmen – COLL; Sicherheit/ Gewähr leisten – COLL;
eine Verpflichtung eingehen2 – COLL, cf. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE/VOW & COMMIS-
SIVES/PROMISE
COMMISSIVES/GUARANTEE + X: 0
8. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE/VOW
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses within the framework of an insti-
tutionally settled procedure that he/she definitely wants to do P
schwören (‘swear’)
einen Eid/ Schwur ablegen/ leisten – COLL; etwas an Eides statt erklären – I
geloben (‘vow’, ‘pledge’)
ein Gelöbnis ablegen 2 – COLL, cf. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 271
sich verpflichten (‘commit oneself’)
eine Verpflichtung eingehen3 – COLL, cf. COMMISSIVES/PROMISE & COMMISSIVES/
GUARANTEE
COMMISSIVES/PROMISE/VOW + X: 0
9. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants to do something
which is not to the hearer’s interest, unless the hearer meets certain conditions
drohen/ bedrohen, androhen (‘threaten’)
jmdm. angst [und bange] machen – COLL
jmdm. Daumenschrauben anlegen/ aufsetzen 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/
THREATEN & DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdn. unter Druck setzen 1 – SI, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREATEN & DIREC-
TIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdm. die Pistole auf die Brust setzen 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREATEN &
DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdm. die Hölle heiß machen 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREATEN & DIREC-
TIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdm. das Messer an die Kehle setzen 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREATEN &
DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdn. in die Mangel nehmen 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREATEN & DIREC-
TIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdn. durch die Mangel/ den Wolf drehen 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREAT-
EN & DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdn. in die Enge treiben 1 – I, cf. Idioms Type II COMMISSIVES/THREATEN & DIREC-
TIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
Drohungen ausstoßen – COLL
Druck/ Zwang ausüben – COLL
COMMISSIVES/THREATEN + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: a conflict:
mit dem Säbel rasseln – I
Commissives:
Total: 50
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 44
		 Collocations: 		 22
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 20
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  2
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	  6
		 Collocations: 		  0
		 Non-literal idioms: 		  2
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  4
_________________________________________________________________________
272	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
EXPRESSIVES
1. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker classifies a subject/issue relative to a certain
norm
einstufen, einschätzen (‘judge’, ‘assess’, ‘estimate’)
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE + X:
X: MODALITY
Modality: not competently:
wie ein blinder von der Farbe reden – I
X: SPECIFICATION (P) + MODALITY
P: performances/qualities of S + Modality: too negatively:
sein Licht unter den Scheffel stellen – I
2. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/ACCLAIM
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she evaluates something
(P) positively; S considers P to have consequences for future actions or dispositions of S, H or
a third person
gutheißen (‘approve’)
sein Amen/ seinen Segen/ seine Zustimmung zu etw. geben – I; etw. für richtig/ angebracht
erklären – COLL; etw. für gut befinden – I
befürworten (‘advocate’)
einer Sache das Wort reden – I; sich für etw. stark machen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/ACCLAIM + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: sth. which is already advocated:
offene Türen einrennen – I
3. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/PRAISE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she has a positive opinion
of P; P is a past action/achievement of a hearer or a third person
huldigen, loben, würdigen (‘praise’, ‘honour’)
jmdn. über den grünen Klee loben – SI (Intensifying); sich in Lobreden ergehen – SI (Intensify-
ing); jmdn./ etw. in den höchsten Tönen loben – SI (Intensifying)
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/PRAISE + X: 0
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 273
4. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/EXTOL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker exuberantly expresses that he/she has a
positive opinion of P
preisen/lobpreisen, rühmen, schwärmen (‘extol’, ‘exalt’, ‘eulogise’, ‘enthuse’, ‘laud’)
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/EXTOL + X:
X: GOAL
Goal: to canvass support for someone:
für jmdn./ etw. Stimmung machen – I
5. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/WHITEWASH
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker represents an action of S, a hearer or a third
person or the result of such an action as being positive
beschönigen, schönreden, schönfärben (‘whitewash’)
einer Sache ein Mäntelchen umhängen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/WHITEWASH + X: 0
6. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/BOAST
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker represents his/her own achievements,
knowledge or qualities very positively
angeben (‘boast’)
sich in die Brust werfen – I; angeben wie ein Wald voll Affen/ wie eine Tüte Mücken – SI; (sich)
(mit etw.) dick(e) tun/ sich (mit etw. dick(e) machen – I; kräftig/ mächtig ins Horn stoßen – I;
die große Klappe schwingen – I; den Mund (zu) voll nehmen – I; einen großen Rand riski-
eren – I; große Reden schwingen/ führen – I; sich mit einem Glorienschein umgeben – I;
Schaum schlagen – I; große Sprüche machen/ kloppen – I; eine Stange angeben – SI; dicke/
große Töne reden/ spucken – I; (kräftig) in die Trompete stoßen – I; Wind machen – I; das
große Wort führen – I; große Worte machen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/BOAST + X: 0
7. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/FLATTER
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker wants to gain benefits for him-/herself by
expressing a positive opinion of P, P being a past action or a quality of a hearer
schmeicheln (‘flatter’)
jmdm. Honig/ Brei um den Bart/ ums Maul/ um den Mund schmieren – I; Süßholz raspeln – I
274	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/BOAST + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: something which H wants to hear + Goal: to gain the favour of H:
jmdm. nach dem Mund reden – I; jmdm. schöne Worte machen – I
8. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/REPRIMAND
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she evaluates P negatively;
P is a past action of a hearer or a third person
verurteilen (condemn)
über jmdn. Gericht halten – I; über jmdn. zu Gericht sitzen – I; den Stab über jmdn. bre-
chen – I
kritisieren (criticise)
jmdn./ etw. aufs Korn nehmen – I; – kein gutes Haar an jmdm. lassen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/REPRIMAND + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: the weak or sore point:
den Finger auf die brennende Wunde legen – I
X: MODALITY
Modality: publicly and harshly:
jmdn. unter Beschuss nehmen – I
Modality: publicly:
jmdn. an den Pranger stellen – I
9. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/REPROACH
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker emphatically expresses that he/she evaluates
P negatively; P is a past action of H
vorwerfen (‘reproach’, ‘rebuke’)
jmdm. etw. aufs Brot/ Butterbrot schmieren/ streichen – I; jmdm. etw. an den Kopf werfen – I;
jmdm. etw. unter die Nase reiben – I
zurechtweisen (‘reprimand’, ‘admonish’)
mit jmdm. ins Gericht gehen – I; jmdm. sein(en) Teil geben – I; jmdm. an den Wagen/ an den
Karren fahren – I; jmdm. einen Tadel/ Rüge erteilen – COLL; jmdm. eine Abfuhr erteilen 1 – I,
cf. COMMISSIVES/REACTIVE/NEGATIVE; jmdm. Bescheid sagen/ stoßen – I; (sich) jmdn.
zur Brust nehmen – I; jmdm. aufs Dach steigen – I; jmdm. eins/etw. aufs Dach geben – I; jmdm
eins auf den Deckel geben – I; jmdm einen/ eins draufgeben (Stilregister: locker) – I; jmdm. auf
die Finger klopfen – I; jmdm. die Flötentöne beibringen – I; jmdm etw. flüstern – I; jmdm. eine
Gardinenpredigt/ eine Standpauke halten – I; es jmdm. geben (jmdn. scharf zurechtweisen) – I;
jmdn. ins Gebet nehmen – I; jmdm. ins Gewissen reden – I; jmdn. bei/ an den Hammelbeinen
nehmen/ kriegen – I; jmdm. die Hammelbeine lang ziehen – I; mit jmdm. ein Hühnchen rup-
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 275
fen – I; jmdm. eins auf den Hut geben – I; mit jmdm. Karussell fahren – I; jmdn. am/ beim
Kragen nehmen/ packen – I; jmdm. zeigen, wo’s langgeht – I; jmdm. die Leviten lesen – I;
jmdm. den Marsch blasen – I; jmdm. die/ seine Meinung geigen/ sagen – I; bei jmdm. die
Möbel geraderücken – I; jmdm. Moral predigen – I; jmdn. Mores lehren – I; jmdn. kalt rasie-
ren – I; jmdm. eines anderen/ eines Besseren belehren – COLL; jmdm. den Kopf waschen – I;
jmdm. den Kopf zurechtsetzen/ zurechtrücken – I; jmdm. eins auf die Nase geben – I ; jmdm.
die Ohren langziehen – I; jmdn. in die Pfanne hauen – I; jmdm. auf die Pfoten klopfen/ eins
auf die Pfoten geben – I; jmdm. den Rost runtermachen – I; jmdm. eins auf die Rübe geben/
hauen – I; jmdm. auf den Sack treten 2 – I, cf. DIRECTIVES/ REQUEST/ GENERAL; jmdn.
zur Schnecke machen – I; jmdm. ein paar Takte sagen/ erzählen – I; jmdm. am/ beim Wickel
packen/ kriegen/ haben/ nehmen – I; jmdm. eine Zigarre verpassen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/REPROACH + X:
X: MODALITY
Modality: clearly:
jmdm. den Spiegel vorhalten/ vor das Gesicht halten – I
10. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/GRUMBLE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she evaluates a past action
or event negatively
meckern (‘grumble’, ‘grouse’, ‘nag’)
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/GRUMBLE + X:
X: GOAL
Goal: to spread information about someone which reflects negatively on that person:
gegen jmdn./ etw. Stimmung machen – I
11. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/SLANDER
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker tells a third person that he/she evaluates a
past action of H or an event concerning H negatively
lästern (‘slander’)
sich über jmdn. das Maul zerreißen – I; seinen Schnabel an jmdm. wetzen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/SLANDER + X: 0
12. EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/RESULT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses his/her negative evaluation of a
past action or a property of H and thereby diminishes H’s social prestige
verletzen, kränken, brüskieren, verleumden (‚defame’, ‚disgrace’, ‚calumniate’)
jmdm. auf die Ferse/ den Schlips/ den Schwanz/ die Zehen treten – I; jmdm. auf den Fuß (die
Füße)/ die Hühneraugen treten 2 – I, cf. DIRECTIVES/ REQUEST/ GENERAL; jmdm. zu
276	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
nahe treten – I; jmdm. einen Stich ins Herz geben – I; jmdn. vor den Kopf stoßen – I; jmdn. ins
Gerede bringen – I; jmdn./ etw. in den Kot/ Dreck ziehen/ treten – I; jmdn. mit Kot/ Dreck/
Schmutz bewerfen/ besudeln – I; jmdn. madig/schlecht machen – I; jmdn. in Misskredit brin-
gen – I; jmdn./ etw. durch die Scheiße ziehen – I ; jmdn./ etw. in den Schmutz zerren/ ziehen/
treten – I; jmdn./ etw. in den Staub/ durch den Staub ziehen/ zerren – I; jmdn. in Verruf brin-
gen – I; jmdm. etw. ans Zeug flicken – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/RESULT + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: a social group of which S is a member:
das eigene/ sein eigenes Nest beschmutzen – I
13. EXPRESSIVES/MOCK
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she considers P to be
ridiculous
necken, veralbern, veräppeln (‘tease’)
jmdn. auf den Arm/ die Schippe nehmen – I; jmdn. auf den Besen laden – I; sich über jmdn.
lustig machen – I; jmdn. durch den Kakao ziehen – I
spotten, höhnen (‘mock’, ‘ridicule’)
jmdn. zum Gespött machen – COLL; jmdn. lächerlich machen – COLL; seinen Spaß (seine
Späße)/ seinen Scherz (seine Scherze) (mit jmdm.) treiben – SI
EXPRESSIVES/MOCK + X: 0
14. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker emphatically expresses that he/she feels joy
because of P
jubeln, jubilieren, frohlocken, jauchzen (‘rejoice’, ‘exult, ‘cheer’)
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY + X: 0
15. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY/CONGRATULATE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she is happy about some-
thing which concerns the hearer
gratulieren, beglückwünschen (‘congratulate’)
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY/CONGRATULATE + X: 0
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 277
16. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY/THANK
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she is grateful for some-
thing the hearer has done for him
danken, sich bedanken (‘thank’)
seinen Dank aussprechen – COLL
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/JOY/THANK + X: 0
17. EXPRESSIVES/JOKE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker humorously expresses that he/she thinks P
to be funny
scherzen (‘joke’, ‘jest’)
einen Scherz/ Witz machen – COLL
EXPRESSIVES/JOKE + X: 0
18. Expressive/emotiv/Ärger (EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/ANGER)
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker emphatically expresses that he/she is angry
because of P
schimpfen (‘scold’)
Dampf ablassen – I; sein Gift verspritzen – I; Gift und Galle spucken – I; vom Leder ziehen – I;
schimpfen wie ein Rohrspatz – SI; toben wie zehn nackte Wilde im Schnee – I
fluchen, verwünschen (‘curse’, ‘damn’)
Ausdrücke gebrauchen/ im Munde führen/ an sich haben (schimpfen) – I; fluchen wie ein
Bierkutscher – SI; jmdn. zur Hölle wünschen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/ANGER + X: 0
X: RESULT
Result: S relieved:
seinem Ärger Luft machen – I
X: ASPECT
Aspect: sudden onset of a state (ingressive):
aus dem Anzug gehen – I
19. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/ANGER/SCOLD
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she is angry because of a
past action of a hearer
278	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
beschimpfen, anschimpfen, ausschimpfen (English: ∅)
jmdm. den Arsch bis zum Stehkragen aufreißen (stylistic register ‘rude’) – I; jmdm. ins Gesicht
springen – I; jmdm. Zunder geben – I
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/ANGER/SCOLD + X:
X: RESULT
Result: H insulted:
jmdn. zur Minna machen – I; jmdn. zur Sau machen – I
20. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/SORROW
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she is suffering because
of P
jammern, klagen (‘complain’, ‘lament’, ‘moan’, ‘bemoan’)
ach und weh schreien – SI; ein Klagelied über jmdn. anstimmen – I; jmdm. sein Leid klagen –
COLL; seinem Kummer Luft machen – SI
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/SORROW + X
X: RESULT
Result: H annoyed:
jmdm. die Ohren voll jammern – SI
21. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/SORROW/CONDOLE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she is sorry because of the
hearer’s grief over the death of a person who was close to H
kondolieren (‘condole’)
sein Beileid aussprechen – COLL
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/SORROW/CONDOLE + X: 0
22. EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/SORROW/EXCUSE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she is sorry because of P;
P is a past action of S
sich entschuldigen (‘apologise’)
Abbitte leisten/ tun – I; jmdn. um Verzeihung bitten – COLL; um gut(es)/ schön(es) Wetter
bitten – I
EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/SORROW/EXCUSE + X: 0
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 279
23. EXPRESSIVES/GREET
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she takes notice of H’s
presence and that he/she acknowledges H socially
grüßen, begrüßen (‘greet’)
EXPRESSIVES/GREET + X: 0
Expressives:
Total: 144
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 128
		 Collocations: 		  10
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 110
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	   8
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	  16
		 Collocations: 		   0
		 Non-literal idioms: 		  15
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	   1
_________________________________________________________________________
DECLARATIVES
1. DECLARATIVES/GENERAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which an authorised speaker brings about a certain institu-
tional fact
entlassen, freilassen (‘free’, ‘release’)
jmdn. auf freien Fuß setzen – I; jmdn. in Freiheit setzen – COLL
erklären (‘declare’)
eine Erklärung abgeben – COLL
feststellen (‘state (that)’)
eine Feststellung machen – COLL
anberaumen (‘fix’, ‘appoint’, ‘settle’)
einen Termin festlegen – COLL
kündigen (‘terminate’)
etw. für beendet erklären – COLL
taufen, einweihen (‘baptise’, ‘inaugurate’)
etw. der Öffentlichkeit übergeben – COLL; etw. aus der Taufe heben – COLL
DECLARATIVES/GENERAL + X: 0
280	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
2. DECLARATIVES/PROFESSION-1
Verbs used to refer to situations in which an authorised speaker causes a change in the hearer’s
professional career
jmdn. kündigen (‘dismiss’, ‘give notice (to quit)’)
jmdn. von seinem Amt/ seiner Funktion suspendieren – COLL; jmdn. seines Postens/ Amtes
entheben – COLL; jmdm. das Amt entziehen – COLL; jmdn. aus seinem Amt entfernen –
COLL; jmdn. auf die Straße/ an die frische Luft/ vor die Tür setzen – I
berufen, ernennen (‘appoint’, ‘nominate’)
jmdn. mit einem Amt betrauen – COLL; jmdn. in ein Amt einsetzen – COLL
beurlauben (‘grant/give leave’)
jmdm. Urlaub geben/ gewähren – COLL
DECLARATIVES/PROFESSION1 + X: 0
3. DECLARATIVES/PROFESSION-2
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker changes his/her professional career
abdanken, zurücktreten, kündigen (‘resign’, ‘retire’)
sein Amt niederlegen/ zur Verfügung stellen – COLL; seinen Rücktritt erklären – COLL; seinen
Hut nehmen – I
DECLARATIVES/PROFESSION2 + X: 0
4. DECLARATIVES/JUDICIARY
Verbs used to refer to the beginning of legal procedures
anklagen, verklagen (‘accuse’)
jmdn. unter Anklage stellen – SI; Klage/ Anklage erheben – COLL
anzeigen (‘report’)
Anzeige erstatten – COLL; etw. zur Anzeige bringen – COLL
klagen (‘sue’)
Klage erheben/ einreichen – COLL; Klage führen – COLL
DECLARATIVES/JUDICIARY + X: 0
5. DECLARATIVES/VERDICT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a legal procedure is brought to an end
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 281
freisprechen (‘aquit’)
jmdn. für unschuldig erklären – COLL
verurteilen (‘condemn’)
ein Urteil fällen 2 – COLL, cf. REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERT/CLAIM; jmdn. für schuldig erk-
lären – COLL; jmdn. schuldig sprechen – COLL
DECLARATIVES/VERDICT + X: 0
6. DECLARATIVES/CHURCH
Verbs used to refer to religious ceremonies
bekennen1 (‘profess’)
Zeugnis/ Bekenntnis ablegen – COLL
lossprechen (‘absolve’)
jmdn. von seiner Schuld befreien – COLL; jmdm. Absolution erteilen – COLL
taufen (‘baptise’)
die Taufe vollziehen – COLL; jmdm. die Taufe geben – COLL
DECLARATIVES/CHURCH + X: 0
Declaratives:
Total: 34
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 34
		 Collocations: 		 30
		 Non-literal idioms: 		  3
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  1
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	  0
		 Collocations: 		  0
		 Non-literal idioms: 		  0
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  0
_________________________________________________________________________
7. STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/THEME
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker’s utterance affects the course of conversation
or the way in which the topic of conversation is being treated.
andeuten (‘allude’)
etw. anklingen lassen (andeuten) – COLL; etw. durchblicken lassen – COLL; eine Andeutung
machen – COLL
282	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
erwähnen, etwas ansprechen (‘mention’)
die Sprache auf etw. bringen – I; etw. einfließen lassen – COLL; etw. ins Feld führen – I; etw. in
den Raum stellen – I; etw. zur Sprache bringen – I; etw. aufs Tapet/ aufs Trapez bringen – I
aufgreifen (English: ∅; only phrasal verb: take up)
sich auf etw. beziehen – COLL; Bezug auf etw. nehmen – COLL
differenzieren (‘differentiate’)
einen Unterschied machen – COLL
anmerken (‘remark’, ‘observe’)
eine Anmerkung machen – COLL
resümieren (‘recapitulate’)
die Bilanz/ das Fazit/ (aus etw.) ziehen – COLL; etw. als Resümee/ Fazit festhalten – COLL
hervorheben (‘stress’, ‘emphasise’)
etw. ins Blickfeld rücken – I; einer Sache Nachdruck verleihen – COLL
abschweifen (‘digress’, ‘deviate’)
vom Thema abkommen/ abweichen – COLL
∅
den Faden verlieren – I; vom Hölzchen aufs Stöckchen/ vom Hundertsten ins Tausendste kom-
men – I; sich ins Uferlose/ ins Weite verlieren – I
kommentieren (‘comment’)
einen Kommentar abgeben – COLL
unterbrechen (‘interrupt’)
jmdm. über den Mund fahren – I; jmdm. ins Wort/ in die Rede fallen – I; jmdm. das Wort/ die
Rede abschneiden – I
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/THEME + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: poor excuses:
Fisimatenten machen – I
P: excuses + Modality: not frankly:
Ausflüchte machen – COLL
P: something far-fetched:
etw. an/ bei den Haaren herbeiziehen – I
P: an impropriety:
einen Korken abschießen/ steigen lassen – I
P: a clear comment:
mit dem Laternenpfahl/ Zaunpfahl winken – I
P: another theme:
eine andere Platte auflegen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 283
P: a particular person/ theme:
auf jmdn./ auf etw. zu sprechen kommen – SI
P: several P:
etw. Revue passieren lassen – I
P: something which may be useful to H:
jmdm. einen Wink/ einen Hinweis geben – I
X: MODALITY
Modality: laboriously:
bei Adam und Eva anfangen – SI
Modality: suddenly, without introduction:
mit der Tür ins Haus fallen – I
Modality: exaggerating the importance of something:
aus einer Mücke einen Elefanten machen – I
Modality: frequently P:
mit etw. um sich werfen/ schmeißen – I
Modality: laboriously & not frankly:
um den heißen Brei herumreden (nur sprachlich) – SI
Modality: not frankly:
herumgehen/ herumschleichen wie die Katze um den heißen Brei (hybrid) – I
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/THEME – Total:	 40
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/THEME: 		 25
	 COLL: 					 13
	 I: 						 12
	 SI: 						  0
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/THEME + X: 		 15
	 COLL: 					  1
	 I: 						 11
	 SI: 						  3
_________________________________________________________________________
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/REACTIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker refers to contributions by the other partici-
pants in the conversation
antworten (‘answer’)
Antwort geben – COLL
einwerfen, einschieben, dazwischenrufen (‘interpolate’)
einen Einwurf machen – COLL; jmdm. in die Parade fahren – I
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/REACTIVE + X:
X: MODALITY
Modality: unnecessarily:
seinen Senf dazu geben – I
284	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: past inconveniences + Result: additional inconveniences:
alte Wunden (wieder) aufreißen – I
P: a justification:
jmdm. Rede und Antwort stehen – I
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/REACTIVE – Total: 	 6
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/REACTIVE: 		 3
	 COLL: 					 2
	 I: 						 1
	 SI: 						 0
STRUCTURE/CONVERSATION/REACTIVE + X: 	 3
	 COLL: 					 0
	 I: 						 3
	 SI: 						 0
_________________________________________________________________________
DISCOURSE/SEQUENCE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which several speakers talk to several hearers
∅
sich (gegenseitig) die Bälle zuwerfen/ zuspielen – I
∅
sich streiten (‘argue’)
in Streit liegen – COLL; sich in den Haaren liegen – I; einen Strauß mit jmdm. ausfechten – I;
sich mit jmdm. in der Wolle liegen/ haben – I; Streit/ Zank haben – COLL
besprechen, sich beratschlagen (‘discuss’, ‘debate’)
die Köpfe zusammenstecken – I; mit jmdm. Rücksprache halten/ nehmen – I; eine Bespre-
chung abhalten – COLL
sich unterhalten (‘converse’)
ein Gespräch/ eine Unterhaltung führen – COLL; einen Plausch/ ein Schwätzchen halten –
COLL; Konversation machen/ betreiben – COLL
DISCOURSE/SEQUENCE + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: something trivial and/or superfluous:
streiten um des Kaisers Bart – SI
X: MODALITY
Modality: confidential:
(mit jmdm.) Zwiesprache halten/ führen – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 285
X: RESULT
Result: S tired of talking:
sich die Köpfe heiß reden – SI
X: ASPECT
Aspect: ingressive (onset of a state or action):
einen Streit vom Zaun brechen – I; mit jmdm. in die Wolle geraten – I; mit jmdm. in Streit ge­
raten – COLL; sich in die Wolle/ in die Haare kriegen – I; das Kriegsbeil ausgraben – I
Apect: end of a state:
das Kriegsbeil begraben – I
DISCOURSE/SEQUENCE – Total: 	 21
DISCOURSE/SEQUENCE: 		 12
	 COLL: 			  6
	 I: 				  6
	 SI: 				  0
DISCOURSE/SEQUENCE + X: 	  9
	 COLL: 			  1
	 I: 				  6
	 SI: 				  2
_________________________________________________________________________
VERBS OF COMMUNICATION (MANNER OF COMMUNICATION)
1. Verbs of Communication/MANNER/SOUND INTENSITY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something with a certain sound
intensity
brüllen, schreien (‘scream’, ‘shout’)
brüllen wie am Spieß/ wie ein Stier – SI; aus voller Lunge schreien – SI; schreien wie am Spieß/
wie ein gestochenes Schwein/ wie eine angestochene Sau – SI
SOUND INTENSITY + X
X: RESULT
Result: S hoarse:
sich die Kehle/ die Lunge aus dem Hals/ dem Leib schreien – SI; sich die Kehle/ die Lunge/ den
Hals ausschreien – SI; sich die Seele aus dem Leib schreien/ rufen – SI
Result: H alarmed:
Zeter und Mordio schreien – SI
2. Verbs of Communication/MANNER/SOUND INTENSITY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something with a particular ar-
ticulation
286	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
∅
eine feuchte Aussprache haben – SI
∅
sich an/ bei etw. die Zunge abbrechen/ zerbrechen – I
SOUND INTENSITY + X: 0
3. Verbs of Communication/MANNER/INTONATION
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something with a particular in-
tonation
brabbeln, brummen (‘mutter’)
INTONATION+ X: 0
4. Verbs of Communication/MANNER/VOCAL QUALITY
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something with a particular tim-
bre
krächzen, quäken (‘croak’)
VOCAL QUALITY + X: 0
5. Verbs of Communication/MANNER/RHYTHM
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something with a certain
rhythm
sttottern (‘stutter’)
in Raten sprechen – I
RHYTHM + X: 0
6. Verbs of Communication/MANNER/ITERATIVE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker tells a hearer several successive Utt(P)
plappern, schnattern (‘chatter’, ‘prattle’)
ITERATIVE + X: 0
Verbs of communications (Manner)
Total: 10
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 6
		 Collocations: 		 0
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 287
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 2
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	 4
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	 4
		 Collocations: 		 0
		 Non-literal idioms: 		 0
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	 4
_________________________________________________________________________
VERBS OF COMMUNICATION (COMMUNICATION MEDIUM)
1. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/ORAL
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker orally reproduces a written text to a hear-
er – either by heart and/or in an artistic manner
vortragen, rezitieren (‘recite’, ‘declaim’)
etw. zum Besten geben – I; etw. zu Gehör bringen – I
MEDIUM/ORAL+ X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: something which is expected of S:
sein Sprüchlein hersagen/ aufsagen – I
2. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/WRITTEN
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something by writing
aufschreiben (English: ∅; only phrasal verb: write down)
etw. zu Papier bringen – I
korrespondieren (‘correspond’)
mit jmdm. in Korrespondenz stehen – COLL
MEDIUM/WRITTEN + X:
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: someone’s signature:
seinen Friedrich Wilhelm unter etw. setzen – I; etw. ins unreine schreiben – SI; eine Unter-
schrift leisten – SI
X: MODALITÄT
Modality: fast:
etw. aufs Papier werfen – I
Modality: neatly:
etw. ins reine schreiben – SI
Modality: in much detail:
einen ganzen Roman schreiben – SI
Modality: badly:
einen Stiefel (zusammen)schreiben – SI
288	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
X: SPECIFICATION (MEDIUM)
Medium: record:
etw. zu Protokoll geben/ bringen – COLL (des schriftlichen Mediums)
X: RESULT
Result: S relieved:
sich etw. von der Seele schreiben – SI
X: ASPECT
Aspect: ingressive (beginning of an activity):
zur Feder greifen – I
3. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/CONVERT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something by converting a written
text into an oral one or vice versa
diktieren, vorlesen (‘dictate’; ‘vorlesen’ → English: ∅; only phrasal verb: read out)
MEDIUM/CONVERT + X: 0
4. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/ADVERTISEMENT
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something in a written advertise-
ment with the aim of getting H to know P
annoncieren, inserieren (‘advertise’)
eine Annonce/ eine Anzeige/ ein Inserat aufgeben – COLL
MEDIUM/ADVERTISEMENT + X: 0
5. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/CODE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something by using a special code
known by the hearer
funken (‘transmit’)
einen Funkspruch durchgeben – COLL
stenografieren (English: ∅; only: write shorthand)
ein Stenogramm aufnehmen – COLL
telegrafieren (‘telegraph’)
ein Telegramm schicken/ senden/ aufgeben – COLL
MEDIUM/CODE + X: 0
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 289
6. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/INTERNET
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something by using the internet
(e)mailen (‘email’)
eine E-Mail schicken/ senden – COLL
simsen
eine SMS schicken/ senden – COLL
MEDIUM/INTERNET + X: 0
7. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/TELEFAX
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something by means of a fax
(tele)faxen (‘fax’)
ein Fax schicken – COLL
MEDIUM/TELEFAX + X: 0
8. Verbs of Communication/MEDIUM/TELEPHONE
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses something by using the tele-
phone
telefonieren (‘telephone’, ‘phone’)
an der Strippe hängen – I; am Telefon hängen – SI; jmdn. an der Strippe haben – I
anrufen (English: ∅; only phrasal verbs: call up, ring up)
sich an die Strippe hängen – I; sich ans Telefon hängen – SI
MEDIUM/TELEPHONE + X: 0
Verbs of Communication (Means of Communication)
Total: 28
	 Inside lexical fields: 		 16
		 Collocations: 		  8
		 Non-literal idioms: 		  6
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  2
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 	 12
		 Collocations: 		  1
		 Non-literal idioms: 	 	  4
		 Semi-literal idioms: 	  7
_________________________________________________________________________
290	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
12. CONVERSATION/BEGINNING
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker gets into contact with someone.
kontaktieren, jmdn. ansprechen (‘contact’, ‘address’)
sich mit jmdm. ins Benehmen setzen – I; das Wort an jmdn. richten – I; ein Gespräch begin-
nen – COLL
CONVERSATION/BEGINNING + X
X: SPECIFICATION (P)
P: a theme to be discussed:
etw. zur Debatte/ zur Diskussion stellen – COLL
X: MODALITY
Modality: obtrusively:
jmdn. (dumm) von der Seite anquatschen – SI (aufdringlich)
X: ASPECT:
Aspect: ingressive (beginning of activity):
mit der Sprache herausrücken – I; das Wort ergreifen/ nehmen – I
CONVERSATION/BEGINNING – Total: 	 7
CONVERSATION/BEGINNING: 		 3
	 COLL: 				 1
	 I: 					 2
	 SI: 					 0
CONVERSATION/BEGINNING + X: 		 4
	 COLL:				 1
	 I: 					 2
	 SI:					 1
_________________________________________________________________________
CONVERSATION/END
Verbs used to refer to situations in which a speaker expresses that he/she wants to put an end
to the conversation.
sich verabschieden (English: ∅; only: idiom: take leave)
CONVERSATION/END + X: 0
CONVERSATION/END – Total: 		 0
CONVERSATION/END: 			 0
	 COLL:				 0
	 I: 					 0
	 SI: 					 0
CONVERSATION/END + X: 		 0
	 COLL: 				 0
	 I: 					 0
	 SI: 					 0
_________________________________________________________________________
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 291
II.	 Idioms constituting hybrid fields of communicative expressions
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM – DECLARATIVES
jmdn. (für etw.) zur Rechenschaft/ zur Verantwortung ziehen – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM
	 Att (S, P): S knows: P has negative consequences for H
	 Intention (S): S wants: H recognise: P has negative consequences for H
	 DECLARATIVES
	 Bound to a particular institution
	 H subordinate to S
	 Presupposition (S): P has negative consequences for the institution; H has done P
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE – REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/LIE
ein/sein Garn spinnen – I
	 REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE
	 Att (S,P): S knows P
	 I (S): S wants: H know: P
	 Utterance: several P
	 REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/LIE
	 Att (S,P): S does not take to be true: P
	 I (S): S wants: H take to be true: P
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE–REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/CONFIDEN-
TIAL
Licht in etw. bringen – I
	 REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE
	 Att (S,P): S knows P
	 I (S): S wants: H know: P
	 Utterance: several P
	 REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/CONFIDENTIAL
	 Presupposition (S): H is not supposed to know P
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE – EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/
BOAST
jmdn./ etw. ins rechte Licht rücken/ setzen/ stellen – I
	 REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/SEQUENCE
	 Att (S,P): S knows P
	 I (S): S wants: H know: P
	 Utterance: several P
	 EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/BOAST
	 Att (S,P): S considers: P good
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S considers: P good/S wants: H considers: P good
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/PUBLIC – EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/EXTOL
die Werbetrommel (für etw.) rühren/ schlagen – I
	 REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/PUBLIC
292	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
	 Att (S,P): S knows P
	 I (S): S wants: H know: P
	 Utterance: addressed to several H/the general public
	 EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/EXTOL
	 Att (S,P): S considers: P good
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S considers: P good
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/FUTURE – EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/
GRUMBLE
den Teufel an die Wand malen – I; schwarzmalen – I
	 REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM/FUTURE
	 Att (S,P): S knows P
	 I (S): S wants: S know P
	 P: a future action, event or state of affairs
	 EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/NEGATIVE/GRUMBLE
	 Att (S,P): S considers: P bad
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S considers: P bad
DIRECTIVES/ASK/NEUTRAL – EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/PRAISE
ein gutes Wort für jmdn. einlegen – I
	 DIRECTIVES/ASK FOR/NEUTRAL
	 Att (S,P): S wants: P
	 I (S): S wants: H do P
	 Modality: politely
	 Not exprectable: P
	 EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/PRAISE
	 Att (S,P): S consider: P good
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S consider: P good
	 P: a quality of a third person/an activity performed by a third person
COMMISSIVES/THREATEN – DIRECTIVES/ASK/URGENTLY
jmdm. Daumenschrauben anlegen/ aufsetzen 2 – I
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdn. unter Druck setzen 2 – SI
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdm. die Pistole auf die Brust setzen 2 – I
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdn. in die Enge treiben 2 – I
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdm. die Hölle heiß machen 2 – I
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdn. durch die Mangel/ den Wolf drehen 2 – I
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdm. das Messer an die Kehle setzen 2 – I
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
jmdn. in die Zange nehmen – I
jmdn. in die Mangel nehmen 2 – I
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 293
	 cf. COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
	 COMMISSIVES/THREATEN
	 Att (S,P): S wants: do P if not C
	 C: Condition to be met by H
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S wants: do P if not C
	 Presuppositions (S): not to the interest of H: P/not expectable: P
	 DIRECTIVES/ASK FOR/PERSISTENTLY
	 Att (S,P): S wants urgently: P
	 I (S): S wants: H do P
	 Modality: persistently
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/BOAST – REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/LIE
sich mit fremden Federn schmücken – I
	 EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/BOAST
	 Att (S,P): S consider: P good
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S consider: P good/S wants: H considers: P good
	 P: Action of S
	 REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/LIE
	 Att (S,P): S does not take to be true: Agent of P = S
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S takes to be true: P = S
	 Agent (P): Third person
REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/LIE – EXPRESSIVES/MOCK
jmdn. zum Narren halten – I
	 REPRESENTATIVES/ASSERTIVE/LIE
	 Att (S,P): S does not take to be true: P
	 I (S): S takes to be true: P
	 EXPRESSIVES/MOCK
	 Att (S,P): considers: P ridiculous
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S considers: P ridiculous
DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/GENERAL – EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/ANGER
jmdm. zum Teufel jagen/ schicken – I
	 DIRECTIVES/REQUEST/GENERAL
	 Att (S,P): S wants: P
	 I (S): S wants: H do P
	 P: H leave
	 EXPRESSIVES/EMOTIVE/ANGER
	 Att (S,P): S feels: anger because of P
	 I (S): S wants: H recognise: S feels: anger because of P
HYBRID FIELDS:
Total: 20
	 COLL: 	  1
	 I: 		 18
	 SI: 		  1
_________________________________________________________________________
294	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
III.	Idioms constituting idiom-specific fields
CONVERSATION/COURSE
mit jmdm. im Gespräch bleiben – COLL
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM with P: S’s opinion on a particualar state of affairs
Farbe bekennen – I, Flagge zeigen – I, die/ seine Karten aufdecken/ offen auf den Tisch le-
gen – I, Tacheles/ Fraktur reden – I, Klartext reden/ sprechen – I, Stellung zu etw. nehmen/
beziehen – SI, jmdm. zeigen, was eine Harke ist – I, eine deutliche Sprache sprechen – I
REPRESENTATIVES/INFORM with P: S’s opinion idientical with H’s
jmdm. aus dem Herzen sprechen – SI, ins gleiche Horn stoßen/ tuten/ blasen – I, in dieselbe/die
gleiche Kerbe hauen/schlagen – I, jmdm. aus der Seele sprechen – SI
DIRECTIVES/ASK/TEST with Utt(P): only one utterance
eine Prüfungsfrage stellen – COLL
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE with Att(S, P): S considers: x and y equal
jmdn. in eine Reihe mit jmdm. stellen – I, jmdn. / etw. auf eine / die gleiche Stufe (mit jmdm./
mit etw.) stellen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE with Att(S, P): S considers: x not important
etw. vom Tisch wischen/ fegen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/ACCLAIM with P: a third person’s opinion
für jmdn. eine Lanze brechen/ einlegen – I, auf jmds. Seite treten – I, jmdm. zur Seite springen/
treten – I, sich auf jmds. Seite schlagen/ stellen – I
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/PRAISE with Agent (P): only H
jmdm. ein Lob erteilen/ spenden/ zollen – COLL, jmdn. mit Lob überhäufen/ überschüt-
ten – SI
EXPRESSIVES/EVALUATIVE/POSITIVE/PRAISE with Agent (P): only third person
ein Loblied auf jmdn. anstimmen/ singen – I, von jmdm./ etw. in den höchsten Tönen reden/
sprechen – I, jmdn. mit einem Glorienschein umgeben - I
COMMISSIVES/THREATEN (no condition C)
jmdm./ etw. den Kampf ansagen – I
IDIOM-SPECIFIC FIELDS:
Total: 26
	 COLL: 	  2
	 I: 		 20
	 SI: 		  4
_________________________________________________________________________
	 Appendix II.  German idioms and collocations	 295
RESULTS (COMPLEX LEXICALISATIONS GERMAN)
COMPLEX LEXICALISATIONS (ALL TYPES)
TOTAL: 					 676
	 Collocations: 				 202
	 Non-literal idioms: 			 402
	 Semi-literal idioms: 			  72
WITHIN VERB FIELDS
TOTAL: 					 441
	 Collocations: 				 183
	 Non-literal idioms: 			 238
	 Semi-literal idioms: 			  20
EXPANSIONS OF VERB FIELDS
TOTAL: 					 189
	 Collocations: 				  16
	 Non-literal idioms: 			 126
	 Semi-literal idioms: 			  47
HYBRID FIELDS
TOTAL: 					  20
	 Collocations: 				   1
	 Non-literal idioms: 			  18
	 Semi-literal idioms: 			   1
IDIOM-SPECIFIC FIELDS
TOTAL: 					  26
	 Collocations: 				   2
	 Non-literal idioms: 			  20
	 Semi-literal idioms:			   4
SPEECH ACT EXPRESSIONS (ALL TYPES)
TOTAL: 					 482
	 Inside lexical fields: 			 371
		 Collocations: 			 150
		 Non-literal idioms: 			 207
		 Semi-literal idioms: 		  14
	 Expansions of lexical fields: 		 111
		 Collocations: 			  12
		 Non-literal idioms: 			  82
		 Semi-literal idioms: 		  17
296	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
COMMUNICATIVE EXPRESSIONS (ALL TYPES)
TOTAL: 					 148
	 Inside lexical fields: 			  70
		 Collocations: 			  33
		 Non-literal idioms: 			  31
		 Semi-literal idioms: 		   6
	 Expansions of lexical fields:		  78
		 Collocations: 			   4
		 Non-literal idioms: 			  44
		 Semi-literal idioms: 		  30
A
accidental vs. systematic gaps 
96–97
A-Conditions vs. D-Conditions 
24
B
Barwise & Perry  14–15
Basic Level Principle (see also
Rosch et al.)  111–112
Bolinger  90–91
C
categorial aspects  35, 66–67
codability  92–94
cognitive salience (see also
Principle of Cognitive
Salience, conceptual salience
and salience)  107–108
Coleman & Kay  27–28
components of illocutionary
force (see also illocutionary
force)  79–82
compositionality of phrasemes
(see structural variability of
phrasemes)  163–165
conceptual salience (see also
Principle of Cognitive
Salience, cognitive salience
and salience)  114
conceptual vs. lexical level of
word meaning  3
constraints on lexical gaps  98,
101
Cooperative Principle  16
costs and benefits (see also
Principle of Costs and
Benefits)  51–55, 59–61, 64,
74, 139–140, 156, 214–215
creation verbs (see verbs of
creation)
D
D-conditions vs. A-conditions 
24
degree of (non-)
compositionality of
phrasemes (see structural
stability and structural
variability of phrasemes)
direction of fit  19, 20, 22
discourse situation vs. resource
situation (see also reported
vs. reporting situation)  14–
15
diversity (see lexical diversity)
E
“egoistic” predicates  137
economy (see lexical economy)
essential condition  21
evaluations (see explicit vs.
implicit evaluations)
explicit vs. implicit evaluations 
64, 160–161, 193, 211
G
general resource situation type
65–66
generalised conversational
implicature  199–200
Grice  16, 125, 199
Gumperz & Levinson  91–92
H
hearer-supportive vs. speaker-
supportive communicative
behaviour  50–55, 215
hybrid verbs  45
hybridity (see hybrid verbs)
I
Idealized Cognitive Models
(ICMs)  28, 198
idiomaticity (see also Bolinger) 
91, 163–165, 167
illocutionary force(s) (see also
components of illocutionary
force)  17–20
illocutionary point  19–22,
79–80
illocutionary suicide  25–26
Ilongot  95
implicit vs. explicit evaluations 
64, 160–161, 193, 211
K
kinship terms  11–12, 99
L
Leech  16–17
level(s) of specificity (see
specificity)
Levin  12
Levinson  199
lexical diversity  155
lexical economy  155
lexical field  2, 71, 111
lexical vs. conceptual level of
word meaning  3
linguistic action verbials  106–
108
linguistic determinism (see
linguistic relativism)
linguistic relativism  91–92
linguistic relativity (see linguistic
relativism)
M
“masochistic” predicates  137
manner of motion  93–94
manner of speaking  152–153
Subject/author index
298	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
markedness (see also Principle
of Markedness)  62, 108,
150–151, 153, 215
material/product alternation 
12
matrix products  83, 97–98, 114,
116, 125
McCawley  23, 99
meronymic vs. taxonomic
hierarchies  113
meronymy  112–113
metapragmatic awareness  95
mode of achievement of
illocutionary point (see also
illocutionary point)  80
N
non-compositionality of
phrasemes (see structural
stability of phrasemes)
P
path of motion  93
performative verbs  14, 20,
23, 32
performativity  16, 23–33
performativity test  14–16
position of utterance (see also
reactive predicates and
re–reactive predicates)  3,
63, 84, 119–120, 130, 135–136
possible lexical items  97,
98–104
prefabs/prefabricated items (see
also Bolinger)  90
preparatory condition  33, 80
Principle of Cognitive Salience
(see also cognitive salience,
conceptual salience and
salience)  108, 151, 157, 215
Principle of Costs and Benefits 
140, 156–157, 214–216
Principle of Harmony of
Interaction  107–108
Principle of Markedness (see
also markedness)  62, 108,
151, 153, 156, 157, 214–215
“pseudo-words” (see also
WordNet)  12–13, 109
R
reactive predicates (see also
position of utterance)  3, 63,
84–85, 119–120, 136, 138
Relevance  17
reported vs. reporting situation
(see also resource vs.
discourse situation)  2–3
re-reactive predicates (see also
position of utterance)  63,
84–85, 119
resource situation vs. discourse
situation (see also Barwise
& Perry and reported vs.
reporting situation)  14–15
Rosch et al.  111, 156
S
“sadistic” predicates  39, 104,
137
salience (see also Principle of
Cognitive Salience, cognitive
salience and conceptual
salience)  94, 95, 107–108,
151, 215
self-reference (in speech acts) 
25
semi-idioms  163–164, 167–168
semi-literal idioms (see semi-
idioms)
situation roles  65
Slobin  91–94
speaker-supportive vs. hearer-
supportive communicative
behaviour  50–55, 215
special resource situation
types(s)  66–75
specification(s) of P  117, 119,
124, 125, 126, 130, 136, 143, 149,
155, 191, 204, 208, 210
specificity  55, 112, 116–117, 153,
156
Sperber & Wilson  17
stability of phrasemes (see
structural stability of
phrasemes)
structural stability of phrasemes
(see also structural variability
of phrasemes)  163–165
structural variability of
phrasemes (see also structural
stability of phrasemes)  163
Sweetser  28, 198
systematic vs. accidental gaps 
96–97
T
Tact Maxim  16
taxonomic vs. meronymic
hierarchies  113
thinking for speaking (see also
Slobin)  92–93
two-levels semantics  2
U
unique elements  167
V
variability of phrasemes (see
structural variability of
phrasemes)
Vendler  23, 25–26
verbs of creation  12–13
W
Whorf  91–92
WordNet (see also “pseudo–
words”)  12, 109, 191
A
aanraden (D.)  200
abschweifen (G.)  184
acknowledge  124
admit  124
advise  19, 60–61, 199–200
afraden (D.)  134, 140
afstand van iets doen (D.)  138
afwijzen (D.)  136
agree  136
give oneself airs  180
Alarm schlagen (G.)  182
alarm slaan (D.)  182
allow  37, 62–63, 130, 132, 134
allude to  30–31
amuse  30–32
angeben (G.)  145
announce  48
annoy  30–33
anrufen (G.)  174
anvertrauen (G.)  125
ask  63, 119, 131, 134
auffordern (G.)  160
(jmdm.) etwas in Aussicht
stellen (G.)  170
eine feuchte Aussprache haben
(G.)  184, 185
B
lügen, dass sich die Balken
biegen (G.)  177, 185
zich (gegenseitig) die Bälle
zuwerfen/zuspielen (G.) 
184, 185
jmdm. einen Bären aufbinden
(G.)  5, 177
bawl  152
bawl out  150
spill the beans  164
beglückwünschen (G.)  149
begrüßen (G.)  181
belasteren (D.)  142
beloven (D.)  160, 172
benachrichtigen (G.)  24, 191,
192, 200
iets te berde/ter sprake brengen
(D.)  175
berichten (D.)  191–192
berichten (G.)  192
berispen (D.)  141, 142, 160
(jmdm.) Bescheid sagen (G.)  
169
beschimpen (D.)  149
beschimpfen (G.)  149
beschönigen (G.)  145
betray  125, 203
jmdn. über etwas ins Bild setzen
(G.)  169
blame  32–33, 142–143, 160
das Blaue vom Himmel
(herunter) lügen (G.)  177,
185
etw. ins Blickfeld rücken (G.) 
174
boast  2–3, 14–15, 20, 25–26,
28–29, 30, 31, 46–47, 118, 146,
160, 182, 183, 194
de borst hoogdragen (D.)  181
een hoge borst opzetten (D.) 
181
zich op de borst slaan/kloppen
(D.)  181
brag  26, 30–31, 118, 141, 182
jmdm. etw. aufs Brot/Butterbrot
schmieren (G.)  178
jmdn. zur Brust nehmen (G.) 
178
sich in die Brust werfen (G.) 
179
talk business  207
C
make a call  175
put/lay one’s cards on the table 
205
let the cat out of the bag  164
caw  152
blacken one’s name/character 
180
claim  18–19, 63, 71–73, 84, 119
classify  204–205
haul sb. over the coals  180
commend  142, 147
communicate  109–110, 112, 123
complain  46–47, 49
condole  182
confess  124
confide  125, 126
consent  136
convince  23, 30, 203
criticise  34–36, 49, 68, 141, 147
croak  152
Index of verbs and phrasemes discussed
German, Dutch, Russian and Turkish expressions are followed by “G.”, “D.”, “R.” and “T.” re-
spectively.
	 Phrasemes are listed alphabetically under their first noun. Phrasemes without a noun are
mentioned under their first other content word. Content words under which phrasemes are
listed are printed in bold-face.
300	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
curse  29–30, 32
cut sb. short  175
D
iem. in een kwaad daglicht
stellen (D.)  181
decline  136
defame  143, 148
delineate  191
demand  134
deny  18, 19, 63, 71–75, 82–84,
120
sich (mit etw.) dick(e) tun/sich
(mit etw.) dick(e) machen
(G.)  179
digress  184–185
dik/duur doen (D.)  181
sling/throw/fling dirt/mud at
sb.  180
disclose  126
discredit  143, 148
bring sb. into discredit/
disrepute  180
discriminate  143, 148
discuss  185
diskreditieren (G.)  142, 148
dissuade  54, 59–61, 62, 140
distribute  136
divulge  125, 126
iem. op zijn donder/flicker/
mieter geven (D.)  180
jmdn./etw. in den Dreck/Kot
ziehen/treten (G.)  179
jmdn. mit Dreck/Kot/Schmutz
bewerfen/besudeln (G.)  180
give sb. a dressing-down/
talking-to/telling-off  180
beat/bang the drum (for sth.) 
196–197, 202–203
jmdn. blauen Dunst/ein X für
ein U vormachen (G.)  177
etw. durchsickern lassen (G.) 
128
duur/dik doen (D.)  181
dwepen (D.)  141, 142, 147
E
give sb. the (rough) edge of one’s
tongue  180
een dure eed zweren (D.)  171
jmdm. sein Ehrenwort/Wort
geben (G.)  170
met rotte eieren/modder/vuil
gooien (D.)  181
etw. einfließen lassen (G.)  174
einwilligen (G.)  136
lay/put/place emphasis/stress on
sth.  175
enthüllen (G.)  125
enthuse  142, 147
erlauben (G.)  134
erwähnen (G.)  184
erzählen (G.)  194–195
extol  147, 195–197
F
fabeltjes/sprookjes vertellen
(D.)  194–195
den Faden verlieren (G.)  184
Farbe bekennen (G.)  203
sich mit fremden Federn
schmücken (G.)  194–196
etw. ins Feld führen (G.)  174
feliciteren (D.)  149
fib  2, 4, 160, 177, 194–195
jmdm. auf die Finger klopfen
(G.)  178
show/fly the flag  205
Flagge zeigen (G.)  203
flatter  14–15, 145
iem. op zijn flikker/mieter/
donder geven (D.)  180
jmdm. einen Floh ins Ohr
setzen (G.)  187–188, 193
jmdm. die Flötentöne
beibringen (G.)  178
flunkern (G.)  2, 177
forbid  59–61, 63, 67–68, 130,
132, 134
foretell  48, 55, 201–202
Fraktur/Tacheles redden (G.) 
203
G
(jmdm.) eine Gardinenpredigt/
Standpauke halten (G.)  178
ein/sein Garn spinnen (G.) 
194
jmdn. ins Gebet nehmen (G.) 
178
geloben (G.)  134, 170–171
ein Gelöbnis ablegen (G.) 
170–171
een gelofte afleggen (D.)  170–
171
iets in geuren en kleuren
vertellen (D.)  208
gewag van iets maken (D.)  175
glorify  145
grade  204–205
gratulieren (G.)  149, 181
greet  181, 182
grölen (G.)  152
grumble  18, 141, 142–143, 148
grüßen (G.)  142, 146, 181
guarantee  61, 134, 136
H
iem. onder handen nemen
(D.)  180
iem. hard vallen over iets (D.) 
180
jmdm. zeigen, was eine Harke
ist (G.)  204
zijn hart luchten/uitstorten (D.) 
189–190
lie one’s head off  178
hervorheben (G.)  174, 184
seinem Herzen Luft machen
(G.)  187, 188–189
jmdm. aus dem Herzen
sprechen (G.)  204
hint  25–26, 30–31
hinterbringen (G.)  125, 127–128
hiss  185
(jmdm.) etw. hoch und heilig
versprechen (G.)  170–171
vom Hölzchen aufs Stöckchen/
Hundertsten ins Tausendste
kommen (G.)  184
iem. iets naar het hoofd
slingeren (D.)  180
ins gleiche Horn stoßen/tuten/
blasen (G.)  204
kräftig/mächtig ins Horn stoßen
(G.)  179
jmdm. die Hucke/Jacke voll
lügen (G.)  177, 185
	 Index of verbs and phrasemes	 301
vom Hundertsten ins
Tausendste/Hölzchen aufs
Stöckchen kommen (G.) 
184
I
put ideas into sb’s head  189
impart  109–110, 123
inform  24, 67, 109–111, 123,
169–170
informeren (D.)  123
informieren (G.)  123, 169–170
insinuate  30–31
insist  18–19, 84–85, 120–121, 135
instruct  132
intimate  30–31
inwilligen (D.)  136
J
jmdm. die Jacke/Hucke voll
lügen (G.)  177, 185
joelen (D.)  152
jokken (D.)  2, 160, 194–195
judge 205
K
open kaart spelen (D.)  205
zijn kaarten op tafel leggen
(D.)  205
karkat (R.)  57, 94
die/seine Karten aufdecken/
offen auf den Tisch legen
(G.)  203
etw. zur Kenntnis bringen
(G.)  169
jmdn. von etw. in Kenntnis
setzen (G.)  169
in dieselbe/die gleiche Kerbe
hauen/schlagen (G.)  204
Klartext reden/sprechen (G.) 
203
jmdn. über den grünen Klee
loben (G.)  185
de klemtoon/nadruk op iets
leggen (D.)  175
kleur bekennen (D.)  205
iem. op zijn kop/lazer geven
(D.)  180
jmdm. den Kopf waschen (G.) 
178
jmdm. etw. an den Kopf werfen
(G.)  178
jmdm. etw. auf den Kopf
zusagen (G.)  188
jmdn. mit Kot/Dreck/Schmutz
bewerfen/besudeln (G.)  188
jmdn./etw. in den Kot/Dreck
ziehen/treten (G.)  179
kötümsemek (T.)  57, 94
krächzen (G.)  152
krassen (D.)  152
kreischen (G.)  152
krijsen (D.)  152
kwaadspreken (D.)  148
L
een last op iemands schouders
leggen (D.)  132
iem. op zijn lazer/kop geven
(D.)  180
leak  128
iem. de les spellen (D.)  180
jmdm. ein Licht aufstecken
(G.)  169
lie  2, 8, 14–15, 25, 26–28, 32, 126
tell sb. a lie  178
immer (wieder) dasselbe Lied
singen (G.)  188–189
altijd/steeds hetzelfde liedje
zingen (D.)  189
liegen (D.)  8, 26–28
liegen alsof het gedrukt staat
(D.)  178, 207
liegen dat men barst/dat men
zwart ziet/dat men het zelf
gelooft (D.)  178
iem. aan de lijn hebben (D.) 
175
iem./iets op één lijn stellen met
iem./iets (D.)  205
be hanging on the line  175
lisp  183
lispeln (G.)  183
loben (G.)  8, 146–147, 160
sich in Lobreden ergehen (G.) 
185
jmdn. über den Löffel
barbieren/balbieren (G.) 
177
loven (D.)  8, 146–147, 160
lügen (G.)  8, 26–28
lügen wie gedruckt (G.)  177,
185, 207
aus voller Lunge schreien (G.) 
185
M
jmdn. madig/schlecht machen
(G.)  179
maintain  84, 120
meckern (G.)  148
meedelen (D.)  123, 169–170
melding van iets maken (D.) 
175
make mention of sth.  175
iets in het midden brengen
(D.)  175
iem. op zijn mieter/flikker/
donder geven (D.)  180
speak one’s mind  205
mitteilen (G.)  24, 123, 169–170
mock  142–143, 148
met modder/rotte eieren/vuil
gooien (D.)  181
mompelen (D.)  152
mopperen (D.)  148
iem. iets op de mouw spelden
(D.)  178
sling/throw/fling mud/dirt at
sb.  180
müjdelemek (T.)  57
mumble  75, 152
den Mund (zu) voll nehmen
(G.)  179
jmdm. den Mund wässrig
machen (G.)  187–188, 193
jmdm. über den Mund fahren
(G.)  174
murmeln (G.)  152
murmur  152
N
iem./iemands naam door de
modder/het slijk sleuren/
halen (D.)  181
302	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
de nadruk/klemtoon op iets
leggen (D.)  175
blacken sb’s name/character 
180
drag sb’s name through the
mud/muck/mire  180
jmdm. etw. unter die Nase
reiben (G.)  179
näseln (G.)  185
iem. iets onder de neus wrijven
(D.)  181
de noodklok luiden (D.)  182–
183
notify  24, 191
iem. op zijn nummer zetten
(D.)  181
nuscheln (G.)  152
O
onthullen (D.)  125
opscheppen (D.)  160
iem. tot de orde roepen (D.) 
181
iem. de oren wassen (D.)  181
overbrieven (D.)  127–128
P
give particulars of sth.  191–192
persuade  30
einen vom Pferd/Wald erzählen
(G.)  177
give sb. a piece of one’s mind 
180, 182
jmdm. eine bittere Pille zu
schlucken geben (G.)  193
die alte Platte laufen lassen/
spielen (G.)  187–191
pledge  136, 171
praise  8, 35–36, 146, 160
predict  48, 55, 58, 74–75
preisen (G.)  147, 195–196
prijzen (D.)  147, 195–196
prohibit  44, 59–61, 130, 131, 132
promise  24–25, 37, 59–61,
69–72, 94–95, 134, 136, 160,
170–172
make/give a promise  5
prophesy  48, 55, 201
Q
quäken (G.)  152
R
raten (G.)  200
rave  142, 147
recommend  63, 132
iem. in de rede vallen (D.)  175
jmdm. die Rede/das Wort
abschneiden (G.)  175
jmdm. in die Rede/ins Wort
fallen (G.)  175
große Reden führen/schwingen
(G.)  179
make reference to sth.  175
refuse  3, 136
jmdn. in eine Reihe mit jmdm.
stellen (G.)  204
remark  184
renounce  45, 59, 138
report  191–192
reprimand  147
reproach  142–143, 147
request  22, 36, 69–72, 129,
131, 160
require  129, 131
give a ring/tinkle  175
S
einer Sache Nachdruck
verleihen (G.)  174
sagen (G.)  123
say  75, 119, 123
schreien wie eine angestochene
Sau/wie am Spieß/wie ein
gestochenes Schwein (G.) 
185
jmdn./etw. durch die Scheiße/
den Staub ziehen/zerren
(G.)  179
schelden (D.)  149
schimpfen (G.)  149
jmdn. schlau machen (G.)  169
jmdn. schlecht/madig machen
(G.)  179
schmeicheln (G.)  145
jmdn./etw. in den Schmutz/
Staub zerren/ziehen/treten
(G.)  179
jmdn. mit Schmutz/Kot/Dreck
bewerfen/besudeln (G.)  188
schwärmen (G.)  142, 147
schreien wie ein gestochenes
Schwein/ eine angestochene
Sau/wie am Spieß (G.)  185
schwindeln (G.)  2, 160, 177,
194–195
schwören (G.)  171
scold  149
jmdm. aus der Seele sprechen
(G.)  204, 206
talk shop  207
show off  30
shrill  152
slander  30, 148
schreien wie am Spieß/ein
gestochenes Schwein/eine
angestochene Sau (G.)  185
spotten (D.)  148
spotten (G.)  148
eine deutliche Sprache sprechen
(G.)  204
iets ter sprake/te berde brengen
(D.)  175
spread  195–197
sprookjes/fabeltjes vertellen (D.) 
194–195
große Sprüche machen/klopfen
(G.)  179
stamelen (D.)  152
stammeln (G.)  152
stammer  11, 152
jmdm. eine Standpauke/
Gardinenpredigt halten
(G.)  178
eine Stange angeben (G.)  179
jmdn./etw. durch den Staub/die
Scheiße ziehen/zerren (G.) 
179
jmdn./etw. in den Staub/
Schmutz zerren/ziehen/treten
(G.)  179
steen en been klagen (D.)  207
stelling nemen (D.)  205
zijn stem laten horen (D.)  205
stotteren (D.)  109, 152
stottern (G.)  109, 152
to put/lay/place stress/emphasis
on sth.  175
an der Strippe hängen (G.)  175
	 Index of verbs and phrasemes	 303
jmdn. an der Strippe haben
(G.)  175
sich an die Strippe hängen
(G.)  175
jmdn./etw. auf eine/die gleiche
Stufe (mit jmdm./etw.)
stellen (G.)  204
stutter  9, 75
swear  29–30, 32, 149, 171
sympathise  47–48
T
Tacheles/Fraktur reden (G.) 
203
tadeln (G.)  142–143, 147, 160
jmdm. ein paar Takte sagen/
erzählen (G.)  179
tell tales  127–128
give sb. a talking-to/telling-off/
dressing-down  180
veel tamtam maken (D.)  193–
194
etw. aufs Tapet/Trapez bringen
(G.)  174
iets op het tapijt brengen (D.) 
175
take sb. to task  180, 182
lie through/in one’s teeth  163
am Telefon hängen (G.)  175
sich ans Telefon hängen (G.) 
175
aan de telefoon hangen (D.) 
175
iem. een telefoontje geven
(D.)  176
tell  75, 123, 194–195
give sb. a telling-off/talking-to/
dressing-down  180
thank  51–52, 149, 182
threaten  20, 39, 58–59, 61, 134,
137, 140, 196–198, 200–201
give a tinkle/ring  175
etw. auf den Tisch des Hauses
legen (G.)  188–191
toestaan (D.)  134
toevertrouwen (D.)  125
dicke/große Töne reden/
sprechen/spucken (G.)  179
jmdn./etw. in den höchsten
Tönen loben (G.)  185
etw. aufs Trapez/Tapet bringen
(G.)  174
de trom slaan/roeren (D.)  195–
197
kräftig in die Trompete stoßen
(G.)  179
blow one’s own trumpet  5, 180
sing/play the same old tune 
189–190
einen Türken bauen (G.)  177
angeben wie eine Tüte Mücken/
ein Wald voll Affen (G.)  179
U
sich ins Uferlose/Weite verlieren
(G.)  184
iem. een flinke uitbrander
geven (D.)  180
iets laten uitlekken (D.)  128
unken (G.)  94, 125, 196,
201–202
upbraid  149
V
verbreiden (D.)  195–197
verbreiten (G.)  195–197
met geleende veren pronken
(D.)  194–196
pronken/zich tooien met
andermans veren (D.) 
194–196
vergoeilijken (D.)  145
verheerlijken (D.)  145
verherrlichen (G.)  145
eine Verpflichtung eingehen
(G.)  167, 170
verraden (D.)  125
verraten (G.)  125
versprechen (G.)  134, 160,
171–172
(jmdm.) ein Versprechen geben
(G.)  170
verspreiden (D.)  195–197
vertellen (D.)  194–195
verweigern (G.)  134, 136
verwensen (D.)  149–150
verwijten (D.)  142, 147
verwittigen (D.)  191, 200
verzichten (G.)  138
iem. zijn vet geven (D.)  180
iem. op de vingers tikken (D.) 
180
het vingertje opheffen tegen
iem. (D.)  180
vleien (D.)  145–146
vloeken (D.)  149
iem. iets voor de voeten werpen
(D.)  180
vorderen (D.)  160
vorhersagen (G.)  58, 201–202
vorwerfen (G.)  142, 147, 178
vow  134, 136, 171–172
met vuil/modder/rotte eieren
gooien (D.)  181
W
waarschuwen (D.)  160,
196–199
angeben wie ein Wald voll
Affen/eine Tüte Mücken 
179
einen vom Wald/Pferd erzählen
(G.)  177
die alte/die gleiche/dieselbe
Walze auflegen/spielen (G.) 
188–190
warn  16, 19, 48, 49, 63, 124, 160
warnen (G.)  196, 197–199,
200–201
weigeren (D.)  136
sich ins Weite/Uferlose verlieren
(G.)  184
welcome  47, 142, 146, 181
die Werbetrommel schlagen/
rühren (G.)  194–197
iem. de wetten lezen (D.)  180
whitewash  30, 31, 145
(jmdm.) etw. wissen lassen
(G.)  169
een hartig/ernstig/stevig
woordje met iem. spreken
(D.)  180
give sb. one’s word/word of
honour  183
(jmdm.) sein Wort/Ehrenwort
geben (G.)  170
jmdm. das Wort/die Rede
abschneiden (G.)  175
304	 Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items
jmdm. ins Wort/in die Rede
fallen (G.)  175
X
jmdn. blauen Dunst/ein X für
ein U vormachen (G.)  177
Y
spin a yarn 194–195
Z
jmdm. den Zahn ziehen
(G.)  187–188, 192–193
jmdm. etw. ans Zeug flicken
(G.)  179
zumuten (G.)  132, 134
sich an/bei etw. die Zunge
abbrechen/zerbrechen
(G.)  184, 185
zurückweisen (G.)  136
zusagen (G.)  136
eine Zusicherung machen
(G.)  170
zutragen (G.)  125–126, 127–128,
195
Pragmatics & Beyond New Series
A complete list of titles in this series can be found on the publishers’ website, www.benjamins.com
171	 Félix-Brasdefer, J. César: Politeness in Mexico and the United States. A contrastive study of the
realization and perception of refusals. xiv, 190 pp. + index. Expected January 2008
170	 Oakley, Todd and Anders Hougaard (eds.): Mental Spaces in Discourse and Interaction.
vi, 256 pp. + index. Expected January 2008
169	 Connor, Ulla, Edwin R. Nagelhout and William V. Rozycki (eds.): Contrastive Rhetoric.
Reaching to intercultural rhetoric. viii, 319 pp. + index. Expected December 2007
168	 Proost, Kristel: Conceptual Structure in Lexical Items. The lexicalisation of communication concepts in
English, German and Dutch. 2007. xii, 304 pp.
167	 Bousfield, Derek: Impoliteness in Interaction. xiii, 281 pp. Expected December 2007
166	 Nakane, Ikuko: Silence in Intercultural Communication. Perceptions and performance.
xii, 233 pp. + index. Expected November 2007
165	 Bublitz, Wolfram and Axel Hübler (eds.): Metapragmatics in Use. vi, 290 pp. + index. Expected
December 2007
164	 Englebretson, Robert (ed.): Stancetaking in Discourse. Subjectivity, evaluation, interaction. 2007.
viii, 323 pp.
163	 Lytra, Vally: Play Frames and Social Identities. Contact encounters in a Greek primary school.
xi, 291 pp. + index. Expected November 2007
162	 Fetzer, Anita (ed.): Context and Appropriateness. Micro meets macro. 2007. vi, 265 pp.
161	 Celle, Agnès and Ruth Huart (eds.): Connectives as Discourse Landmarks. 2007. viii, 212 pp.
160	 Fetzer, Anita and Gerda Eva Lauerbach (eds.): Political Discourse in the Media. Cross-cultural
perspectives. 2007. viii, 379 pp.
159	 Maynard, Senko K.: Linguistic Creativity in Japanese Discourse. Exploring the multiplicity of self,
perspective, and voice. 2007. xvi, 356 pp.
158	 Walker, Terry: Thou and You in Early Modern English Dialogues. Trials, Depositions, and Drama
Comedy. 2007. xx, 339 pp.
157	 Crawford Camiciottoli, Belinda: The Language of Business Studies Lectures. A corpus-assisted
analysis. 2007. xvi, 236 pp.
156	 Vega Moreno, Rosa E.: Creativity and Convention. The pragmatics of everyday figurative speech. 2007.
xii, 249 pp.
155	 Hedberg, Nancy and Ron Zacharski (eds.): The Grammar–Pragmatics Interface. Essays in honor of
Jeanette K. Gundel. 2007. viii, 345 pp.
154	 Hübler, Axel: The Nonverbal Shift in Early Modern English Conversation. 2007. x, 281 pp.
153	 Arnovick, Leslie K.: Written Reliquaries. The resonance of orality in medieval English texts. 2006.
xii, 292 pp.
152	 Warren, Martin: Features of Naturalness in Conversation. 2006. x, 272 pp.
151	 Suzuki, Satoko (ed.): Emotive Communication in Japanese. 2006. x, 234 pp.
150	 Busse, Beatrix: Vocative Constructions in the Language of Shakespeare. 2006. xviii, 525 pp.
149	 Locher, Miriam A.: Advice Online. Advice-giving in an American Internet health column. 2006.
xvi, 277 pp.
148	 Fløttum, Kjersti, Trine Dahl and Torodd Kinn: Academic Voices. Across languages and disciplines.
2006. x, 309 pp.
147	 Hinrichs, Lars: Codeswitching on the Web. English and Jamaican Creole in e-mail communication.
2006. x, 302 pp.
146	 Tanskanen, Sanna-Kaisa: Collaborating towards Coherence. Lexical cohesion in English discourse.
2006. ix, 192 pp.
145	 Kurhila, Salla: Second Language Interaction. 2006. vii, 257 pp.
144	 Bührig, Kristin and Jan D. ten Thije (eds.): Beyond Misunderstanding. Linguistic analyses of
intercultural communication. 2006. vi, 339 pp.
143	 Baker, Carolyn, Michael Emmison and Alan Firth (eds.): Calling for Help. Language and social
interaction in telephone helplines. 2005. xviii, 352 pp.
142	 Sidnell, Jack: Talk and Practical Epistemology. The social life of knowledge in a Caribbean community.
2005. xvi, 255 pp.
141	 Zhu,Yunxia: Written Communication across Cultures. A sociocognitive perspective on business genres.
2005. xviii, 216 pp.
140	 Butler, Christopher S., María de los Ángeles Gómez-González and Susana M. Doval-Suárez
(eds.): The Dynamics of Language Use. Functional and contrastive perspectives. 2005. xvi, 413 pp.
139	 Lakoff, Robin T. and Sachiko Ide (eds.): Broadening the Horizon of Linguistic Politeness. 2005.
xii, 342 pp.
138	 Müller, Simone: Discourse Markers in Native and Non-native English Discourse. 2005. xviii, 290 pp.
137	 Morita, Emi: Negotiation of Contingent Talk. The Japanese interactional particles ne and sa. 2005.
xvi, 240 pp.
136	 Sassen, Claudia: Linguistic Dimensions of Crisis Talk. Formalising structures in a controlled language.
2005. ix, 230 pp.
135	 Archer, Dawn: Questions and Answers in the English Courtroom (1640–1760). A sociopragmatic
analysis. 2005. xiv, 374 pp.
134	 Skaffari, Janne, Matti Peikola, Ruth Carroll, Risto Hiltunen and Brita Wårvik (eds.):
Opening Windows on Texts and Discourses of the Past. 2005. x, 418 pp.
133	 Marnette, Sophie: Speech and Thought Presentation in French. Concepts and strategies. 2005.
xiv, 379 pp.
132	 Onodera, Noriko O.: Japanese Discourse Markers. Synchronic and diachronic discourse analysis. 2004.
xiv, 253 pp.
131	 Janoschka, Anja: Web Advertising. New forms of communication on the Internet. 2004. xiv, 230 pp.
130	 Halmari, Helena and Tuija Virtanen (eds.): Persuasion Across Genres. A linguistic approach. 2005.
x, 257 pp.
129	 Taboada, María Teresa: Building Coherence and Cohesion. Task-oriented dialogue in English and
Spanish. 2004. xvii, 264 pp.
128	 Cordella, Marisa: The Dynamic Consultation. A discourse analytical study of doctor–patient
communication. 2004. xvi, 254 pp.
127	 Brisard, Frank, Michael Meeuwis and Bart Vandenabeele (eds.): Seduction, Community,
Speech. A Festschrift for Herman Parret. 2004. vi, 202 pp.
126	 Wu,Yi’an: Spatial Demonstratives in English and Chinese. Text and Cognition. 2004. xviii, 236 pp.
125	 Lerner, Gene H. (ed.): Conversation Analysis. Studies from the first generation. 2004. x, 302 pp.
124	 Vine, Bernadette: Getting Things Done at Work. The discourse of power in workplace interaction. 2004.
x, 278 pp.
123	 Márquez Reiter, Rosina and María Elena Placencia (eds.): Current Trends in the Pragmatics of
Spanish. 2004. xvi, 383 pp.
122	 González, Montserrat: Pragmatic Markers in Oral Narrative. The case of English and Catalan. 2004.
xvi, 410 pp.
121	 Fetzer, Anita: Recontextualizing Context. Grammaticality meets appropriateness. 2004. x, 272 pp.
120	 Aijmer, Karin and Anna-Brita Stenström (eds.): Discourse Patterns in Spoken and Written Corpora.
2004. viii, 279 pp.
119	 Hiltunen, Risto and Janne Skaffari (eds.): Discourse Perspectives on English. Medieval to modern.
2003. viii, 243 pp.
118	 Cheng, Winnie: Intercultural Conversation. 2003. xii, 279 pp.
117	 Wu, Ruey-Jiuan Regina: Stance in Talk. A conversation analysis of Mandarin final particles. 2004.
xvi, 260 pp.
116	 Grant, Colin B. (ed.): Rethinking Communicative Interaction. New interdisciplinary horizons. 2003.
viii, 330 pp.
115	 Kärkkäinen, Elise: Epistemic Stance in English Conversation. A description of its interactional
functions, with a focus on I think. 2003. xii, 213 pp.
114	 Kühnlein, Peter, Hannes Rieser and Henk Zeevat (eds.): Perspectives on Dialogue in the New
Millennium. 2003. xii, 400 pp.
113	 Panther, Klaus-Uwe and Linda L. Thornburg (eds.): Metonymy and Pragmatic Inferencing. 2003.
xii, 285 pp.
112	 Lenz, Friedrich (ed.): Deictic Conceptualisation of Space, Time and Person. 2003. xiv, 279 pp.
111	 Ensink, Titus and Christoph Sauer (eds.): Framing and Perspectivising in Discourse. 2003. viii, 227 pp.
110	 Androutsopoulos, Jannis K. and Alexandra Georgakopoulou (eds.): Discourse
Constructions of Youth Identities. 2003. viii, 343 pp.
109	 Mayes, Patricia: Language, Social Structure, and Culture. A genre analysis of cooking classes in Japan and
America. 2003. xiv, 228 pp.
108	 Barron, Anne: Acquisition in Interlanguage Pragmatics. Learning how to do things with words in a study
abroad context. 2003. xviii, 403 pp.
107	 Taavitsainen, Irma and Andreas H. Jucker (eds.): Diachronic Perspectives on Address Term
Systems. 2003. viii, 446 pp.
106	 Busse, Ulrich: Linguistic Variation in the Shakespeare Corpus. Morpho-syntactic variability of second
person pronouns. 2002. xiv, 344 pp.
105	 Blackwell, Sarah E.: Implicatures in Discourse. The case of Spanish NP anaphora. 2003. xvi, 303 pp.
104	 Beeching, Kate: Gender, Politeness and Pragmatic Particles in French. 2002. x, 251 pp.
103	 Fetzer, Anita and Christiane Meierkord (eds.): Rethinking Sequentiality. Linguistics meets
conversational interaction. 2002. vi, 300 pp.
102	 Leafgren, John: Degrees of Explicitness. Information structure and the packaging of Bulgarian subjects
and objects. 2002. xii, 252 pp.
101	 Luke, K. K. and Theodossia-Soula Pavlidou (eds.): Telephone Calls. Unity and diversity in
conversational structure across languages and cultures. 2002. x, 295 pp.
100	 Jaszczolt, Katarzyna M. and Ken Turner (eds.): Meaning Through Language Contrast.Volume 2.
2003. viii, 496 pp.
99	 Jaszczolt, Katarzyna M. and Ken Turner (eds.): Meaning Through Language Contrast.Volume 1.
2003. xii, 388 pp.
98	 Duszak, Anna (ed.): Us and Others. Social identities across languages, discourses and cultures. 2002.
viii, 522 pp.
97	 Maynard, Senko K.: Linguistic Emotivity. Centrality of place, the topic-comment dynamic, and an
ideology of pathos in Japanese discourse. 2002. xiv, 481 pp.
96	 Haverkate, Henk: The Syntax, Semantics and Pragmatics of Spanish Mood. 2002. vi, 241 pp.
95	 Fitzmaurice, Susan M.: The Familiar Letter in Early Modern English. A pragmatic approach. 2002.
viii, 263 pp.
94	 McIlvenny, Paul (ed.): Talking Gender and Sexuality. 2002. x, 332 pp.
93	 Baron, Bettina and Helga Kotthoff (eds.): Gender in Interaction. Perspectives on femininity and
masculinity in ethnography and discourse. 2002. xxiv, 357 pp.
92	 Gardner, Rod: When Listeners Talk. Response tokens and listener stance. 2001. xxii, 281 pp.
91	 Gross, Joan: Speaking in Other Voices. An ethnography of Walloon puppet theaters. 2001. xxviii, 341 pp.
90	 Kenesei, István and Robert M. Harnish (eds.): Perspectives on Semantics, Pragmatics, and Discourse.
A Festschrift for Ferenc Kiefer. 2001. xxii, 352 pp.
89	 Itakura, Hiroko: Conversational Dominance and Gender. A study of Japanese speakers in first and
second language contexts. 2001. xviii, 231 pp.
88	 Bayraktaroğlu, Arın and Maria Sifianou (eds.): Linguistic Politeness Across Boundaries. The
case of Greek and Turkish. 2001. xiv, 439 pp.
87	 Mushin, Ilana: Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Narrative Retelling. 2001. xviii, 244 pp.
86	 Ifantidou, Elly: Evidentials and Relevance. 2001. xii, 225 pp.
85	 Collins, Daniel E.: Reanimated Voices. Speech reporting in a historical-pragmatic perspective. 2001.
xx, 384 pp.
84	 Andersen, Gisle: Pragmatic Markers and Sociolinguistic Variation. A relevance-theoretic approach to
the language of adolescents. 2001. ix, 352 pp.
83	 Márquez Reiter, Rosina: Linguistic Politeness in Britain and Uruguay. A contrastive study of requests
and apologies. 2000. xviii, 225 pp.
82	 Khalil, Esam N.: Grounding in English and Arabic News Discourse. 2000. x, 274 pp.
81	 Di Luzio, Aldo, Susanne Günthner and Franca Orletti (eds.): Culture in Communication.
Analyses of intercultural situations. 2001. xvi, 341 pp.
80	 Ungerer, Friedrich (ed.): English Media Texts – Past and Present. Language and textual structure. 2000.
xiv, 286 pp.
79	 Andersen, Gisle and Thorstein Fretheim (eds.): Pragmatic Markers and Propositional Attitude.
2000. viii, 273 pp.
78	 Sell, Roger D.: Literature as Communication. The foundations of mediating criticism. 2000. xiv, 348 pp.
77	 Vanderveken, Daniel and Susumu Kubo (eds.): Essays in Speech Act Theory. 2002. vi, 328 pp.
76	 Matsui, Tomoko: Bridging and Relevance. 2000. xii, 251 pp.
75	 Pilkington, Adrian: Poetic Effects. A relevance theory perspective. 2000. xiv, 214 pp.
74	 Trosborg, Anna (ed.): Analysing Professional Genres. 2000. xvi, 256 pp.
73	 Hester, Stephen K. and David Francis (eds.): Local Educational Order. Ethnomethodological studies
of knowledge in action. 2000. viii, 326 pp.
72	 Marmaridou, Sophia S.A.: Pragmatic Meaning and Cognition. 2000. xii, 322 pp.
71	 Gómez-González, María de los Ángeles: The Theme–Topic Interface. Evidence from English. 2001.
xxiv, 438 pp.
70	 Sorjonen, Marja-Leena: Responding in Conversation. A study of response particles in Finnish. 2001.
x, 330 pp.
69	 Noh, Eun-Ju: Metarepresentation. A relevance-theory approach. 2000. xii, 242 pp.
68	 Arnovick, Leslie K.: Diachronic Pragmatics. Seven case studies in English illocutionary development.
2000. xii, 196 pp.
67	 Taavitsainen, Irma, Gunnel Melchers and Päivi Pahta (eds.): Writing in Nonstandard English.
2000. viii, 404 pp.
66	 Jucker, Andreas H., Gerd Fritz and Franz Lebsanft (eds.): Historical Dialogue Analysis. 1999.
viii, 478 pp.
65	 Cooren, François: The Organizing Property of Communication. 2000. xvi, 272 pp.
64	 Svennevig, Jan: Getting Acquainted in Conversation. A study of initial interactions. 2000. x, 384 pp.
63	 Bublitz, Wolfram, Uta Lenk and Eija Ventola (eds.): Coherence in Spoken and Written Discourse.
How to create it and how to describe it. Selected papers from the International Workshop on Coherence,
Augsburg, 24-27 April 1997. 1999. xiv, 300 pp.
62	 Tzanne, Angeliki: Talking at Cross-Purposes. The dynamics of miscommunication. 2000. xiv, 263 pp.
61	 Mills, Margaret H. (ed.): Slavic Gender Linguistics. 1999. xviii, 251 pp.
60	 Jacobs, Geert: Preformulating the News. An analysis of the metapragmatics of press releases. 1999.
xviii, 428 pp.
59	 Kamio, Akio and Ken-ichi Takami (eds.): Function and Structure. In honor of Susumu Kuno. 1999.
x, 398 pp.
58	 Rouchota, Villy and Andreas H. Jucker (eds.): Current Issues in Relevance Theory. 1998. xii, 368 pp.
57	 Jucker, Andreas H. and Yael Ziv (eds.): Discourse Markers. Descriptions and theory. 1998. x, 363 pp.
56	 Tanaka, Hiroko: Turn-Taking in Japanese Conversation. A Study in Grammar and Interaction. 2000.
xiv, 242 pp.
55	 Allwood, Jens and Peter Gärdenfors (eds.): Cognitive Semantics. Meaning and cognition. 1999.
x, 201 pp.
54	 Hyland, Ken: Hedging in Scientific Research Articles. 1998. x, 308 pp.
53	 Mosegaard Hansen, Maj-Britt: The Function of Discourse Particles. A study with special reference
to spoken standard French. 1998. xii, 418 pp.
52	 Gillis, Steven and Annick De Houwer (eds.): The Acquisition of Dutch.With a Preface by Catherine
E. Snow. 1998. xvi, 444 pp.
51	 Boulima, Jamila: Negotiated Interaction in Target Language Classroom Discourse. 1999. xiv, 338 pp.
50	 Grenoble, Lenore A.: Deixis and Information Packaging in Russian Discourse. 1998. xviii, 338 pp.
49	 Kurzon, Dennis: Discourse of Silence. 1998. vi, 162 pp.
48	 Kamio, Akio: Territory of Information. 1997. xiv, 227 pp.
47	 Chesterman, Andrew: Contrastive Functional Analysis. 1998. viii, 230 pp.
46	 Georgakopoulou, Alexandra: Narrative Performances. A study of Modern Greek storytelling. 1997.
xvii, 282 pp.
45	 Paltridge, Brian: Genre, Frames and Writing in Research Settings. 1997. x, 192 pp.
44	 Bargiela-Chiappini, Francesca and Sandra J. Harris: Managing Language. The discourse of
corporate meetings. 1997. ix, 295 pp.
43	 Janssen, Theo and Wim van der Wurff (eds.): Reported Speech. Forms and functions of the verb.
1996. x, 312 pp.
42	 Kotthoff, Helga and Ruth Wodak (eds.): Communicating Gender in Context. 1997. xxvi, 424 pp.
