THE ROLE OF DIGITAL MEDIA AND INCREMENTAL CHANGE 5
combinations of the four main skills. To this we must also add that learners in today’s
CALL environments can potentially improve their technology and digital literacy skills
as well as collaborate with language learners from other cultures to improve their
understanding of cross-cultural communication in a globalized world. New broadband
and mobile technologies are increasingly leading to opportunities that had earlier been
envisaged but could not be realized by previous generations of technology. New trends
in open access and open educational resources are likewise being facilitated by a
Web 2.0 infrastructure built on sharing and collaboration thereby allowing access to
digital materials and resources in online archives and communities (Warschauer &
Grimes, 2007). Moreover, through dedicated social networking sites likes Livemocha
and Busuu, the boundaries between instructors and learners are being deconstructed,
with communities of prosumer learners simultaneously engaging in language learning,
peer mentoring and instruction (Brick, 2012; Bruns, 2010; Harrison & Thomas, 2009).
Digital media and social CALL
While this vision incorporates some of the potential rewards from utilizing digital
media, the history of CALL is also a cautionary tale that runs ‘counter [to] the excessive
mainstream eulogising of digital technologies in education’ (Selwyn, 2011b, p. 154). In
turning to consider what lessons contemporary CALL can learn from its own past a
number of recent changes must be taken into account. In 2003, Bax hypothesized that
CALL technologies are likely to achieve a state of normalization – a phase representing
a high level of integration in everyday classroom environments (Bax, 2003). While
many language educators make use of digital technologies, the reality remains that
the vast majority may use little more than a computer attached to a projector to display
presentation slides.This is even more the case in low-tech CALL contexts (see Gonzales
& St. Louis, this volume), where although Web 2.0 technologies are becoming more
visible, there are still signiﬁcant barriers to entry (Thomas, 2009).
On the other hand, there is little doubt that a new generation of language teachers
and educators currently completing their entry-level qualiﬁcations and acquiring
teaching experience will have grown up using many aspects of digital media in their
daily lives. While professional development is still required to understand how these
technologies can be operationalized in formal educational contexts, the lack of expertise
now required by digital media holds great promise for overcoming these initial barriers
in professional development terms.
Previous CALL research identiﬁes a number of important factors that inﬂuence
the range and extent to which digital media can be integrated into any pedagogical
context.These factors therefore present threats as well as opportunities in that a CALL
solution may be adopted for spurious reasons. From its earliest beginnings it has rarely
been the case that commercially available or locally made CALL resources can be
operationalized in every classroom or learning context to the same effect. Such factors
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
6
include ﬁnancial constraints, as well as the extent to which the educational leadership
exists to accompany the technology with substantive curriculum development
or whether the technology is merely a sign of the need to innovate or market the
institution.
The last three decades have seen a growing importance placed on the role of
research in the process of content development and contemporary CALL reﬂects this,
in that it consists of a range of fairly independent subﬁelds, from ICALL (see Schulze
& Heift, this volume) to the growing areas of online and distance learning and mobile
learning – trends that have brought with them the consolidation of key terms and
acronyms that are consistently used across these diverse areas (see Stockwell, this
volume).
Contemporary CALL beneﬁts from a ﬁrmer orientation towards empirical research,
focusing less on providing justiﬁcation for its use in relation to, for example, face-to-face
instruction, and more on analysing the sociocultural context of learners and instructors
involved in the process of language learning (see Motteram, Slaouti & Onat-Stelma,
this volume). From earlier quantitative-based studies, CALL has increasingly developed
to incorporate rich case studies and ethnographic research using qualitative data
techniques and approaches (see Meskill & Quay, this volume). Through its evaluative
and developmental frameworks it can contribute knowledge and experience to new
environments driven by the latest pedagogical innovations.
Consequently, extending the research on the collaborative potential of digital
media will be a concern of CALL researchers over the next decade. While the various
attempts to describe a generation of new learners, from digital natives to Generation X,
remain ﬂawed, digital media are more widely used than ever before (Thomas, 2011a).
Nevertheless, it is clear that whatever learners’ competence level, they need assistance
in understanding the responsibilities that accompany digital media, particularly in the
area of privacy, copyright and security, rather than a ‘guide on the side’ approach.
Raising consciousness among language learners of these issues is now an additional
responsibility of language educators and such areas sit comfortably beside wider skill
sets such as intercultural communication.
Earlier attempts to historicize CALL identiﬁed a number of different phases (see
Davis, Otto & Rüschoff, this volume). From the vantage point of contemporary CALL,
it is clear however that these phases did not emerge as a consequence of rejecting
earlier phases; indeed, change does not occur at an identiﬁable point. Changes such as
these occur over time and with a great deal of unevenness and overlap rather than as a
result of a smooth and linear process of historical transition; the words ‘revolution’ and
‘transformation’ remain two of the most overused and inappropriate terms to describe
change processes in education.
Building on Warschauer and Healey (1998) and Bax’s (2003) three phases of CALL,
we can perhaps identify a fourth social phase that distinguishes contemporary digital
media. This shift towards social technologies is underpinned by developments in
portable digital devices, from smartphones to tablets and e-readers, as well as by
constructivist principles promoting collaborative learning on the socialWeb. Learning via
THE ROLE OF DIGITAL MEDIA AND INCREMENTAL CHANGE 7
a transmission mode of pedagogy has been rejected as a central mode of instruction in
favour of participative experience. In terms of language learning, this view has become
particularly inﬂuential and the process is now allied with the need to make learners
active agents and users of the target language. Replacing the purely form focused
pedagogies of the past, language learning is now focused more on communicative
ability. The Common European Framework (CEF) as well as the Standards for Foreign
Language Learning published in the United States both recognize this important shift.
Contemporary CALL has a positive role to play in this process by promoting the use
of a rich multiplicity of target language input as well as by creating authentic tasks
in real-world environments that learners can relate to. Developments in Web-based
instruction can produce authentic learning environments utilizing a task-based approach
in which learners have been given a much more productive rather than passive role in
the process (Thomas & Reinders, 2010).
In terms of the barriers to CALL integration noted earlier – these also include the
overreliance on textbook-based curricula, the absence of technical or administrative
support structures, encouragement and educational leadership, as well as the
perceived risks of attempting to use technology in the ﬁrst place – social technologies
can help to address each of these areas as more of us establish and maintain important
relationships via computer-mediated technologies in our daily lives.
Throughout its history CALL applications have sought to develop ways
of transferring knowledge by developing interactive and visually stimulating
environments that draw on multimedia technologies. Activities in such environments
have developed around game-like quests and their natural afﬁnities with
problem-based learning, as well as the use of intelligent applications for providing
feedback and assessment. Social CALL promises to add a new dimension to these
environments, aiding rich forms of Web-based synchronous and asynchronous
communication. Underlying engagement with these social technologies is the
potential for enhanced learner engagement, collaboration and learner motivation
within more decentralized, democratic and learner-centric environments (Reinders &
Darasawang, 2011). At the heart of social CALL are pedagogies allied to encouraging
higher-order critical thinking rather than a narrow subset of discrete skills like
grammar, spelling and text decoding. Such applications of digital media are related
to project-based research and rich open-ended activities not directly focused on
narrower aims of raising standardized testing scores.These types of research-based
activities require language learners to develop rich skill sets incorporating collecting
and analysing data; evaluating results and solving problems as well as collaborating,
sharing and disseminating information in ways that will be productive for others
(Schafer, 2008; Warschauer, 2012). Twenty-ﬁrst-century skills and learning require
contemporary CALL applications and environments that will enable them to engage
with creative practices in classroom environments with the aid of simulations and
research-based tasks. Social CALL is therefore about more than the drill and practice
tutorials that distinguished earlier phases in CALL applications, though a focus on
these discrete skills will continue to develop and be part of a learner’s personal
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
8
learning environment, but in ways which are supplementary rather than central to
developing learners’ creative communication skills.
CALL enters the second decade of the twenty-ﬁrst century in an era very different to
that in which it was born in the middle of the last century. Learners today must engage
with innovative educational practices if they are to be successful in a knowledge
economy, driven as it is by how we access information and how it can be applied to
create and sustain value for organizations.
CALL in the information era relies on new digital archives leading to greater
interoperability between applications and platforms. Within a context of globalization,
this necessitates collaborative practices. Contemporary multimedia technologies
are becoming more interactive and responsive to learners (see Ware & Kessler, this
volume). CALL is always open to future technologies. Research on virtual worlds
suggests that they can replicate physical environments for learners as well as enable
them to participate in creative experiences by building their own environments (see
Sadler & Dooly, this volume). Digital games offer opportunities for collaboration and
interaction difﬁcult to achieve in other contexts (Reinders, 2012). On the horizon, as
Google’s augmented reality (AR) glasses suggest, is the potential for language learners
to experience hybridized perception in both their L1 and desired foreign language by
viewing the real world overlaid with digital information (Bilton, 2012).
Part of contemporary CALL is the realization that merely referencing success
with small-scale projects and arguing that they can be generalized and applied in
uniform ways across language learning environments is no longer feasible. CALL
technologies do not provide a panacea for all of the challenges facing language learners
and educators; integration cannot be seamless, nor can it be applied by all language
educators in all contexts.The naïve optimism that suggested computers would replace
language teachers has come and gone. Educational technology and contemporary
CALL within it needs to be realistic. As articulated in Steve Jobs’ comment noted at
the beginning of this chapter, technology alone cannot change anything. This applies
similarly to the euphoria surrounding Web 2.0 technologies, where for every blog
started and maintained by a learner of a foreign language, there are many more left
abandoned in the digital graveyard. Technologies produce potential affordances and
frequently small-scale CALL projects do not last long enough to prove if the advances
respond to little more than the immediate ‘wow factor’ (Bax, 2011b). It is essential for
contemporary CALL to provide a pedagogical rationale that understands how people
learn and how they learn with technology. So many CALL applications in the past
have merely replicated behaviourist principles rather than fulﬁl expectations of greater
interactivity. Educators need to work with programmers to produce the right kind of
applications, building in opportunities for learner creativity as well as broader topics such
as intercultural awareness. A key principle of Web 2.0 and mobile technologies is their
intuitive design so that users do not need to spend a great deal of time understanding
the complex functions required to use the application, at the expense of time available
for engaging with the learning content. The promise of contemporary CALL is much
more sensitive to applications that provide detailed feedback (see Ware & Kessler, this
THE ROLE OF DIGITAL MEDIA AND INCREMENTAL CHANGE 9
volume); maintain and develop applications that mirror authentic environments found
in the real world (see Sadler & Dooly, this volume); provide users with opportunities
for greater control, creativity and freedom to navigate content material; maintain and
develop interoperable standards and consistency of quality; advance effective principles
of design (see Hauck & Warnecke, this volume); and enable users to understand errors
and react to them (see Brown, this volume).
Conclusion
As CALL progresses in the twenty-ﬁrst century, it is important that it rids itself of
a number of characteristics it has inherited from wider discourses on educational
technology. These include adopting a more evenly balanced understanding of its
potential, one which rejects technological determinism as well as the overly optimistic
tone adopted by many educational technology advocates (see discussion in Cuban,
2001). While CALL, like other educational technologies, has promised signiﬁcant
advances in cross-cultural understanding, digital equity or collaborative communication,
these remain potential gains which have yet to be conclusively realized. As Selwyn
notes (2011a, 2011b; Selwyn, Potter & Cramer, 2010), this need not mean adopting a
pessimistic tone in contemporary educational technology, but it means understanding
the history of technological and pedagogical innovation, rather than trying to avoid its
challenges as every new technology appears.
In this new era of social CALL, it is important to listen more to the voice of learners,
to learn from the mistakes of the past, to remain cautious but optimistic for change.
If the history of CALL were a case study for educational technology in general, then it
would emphasize the genuine need to produce more effective spaces for our learners;
that it ought not to result in ill-thought-out projects, all too quickly implemented; and
that when grant funding is gone, worthwhile projects are sustainable. Contemporary
CALL is not about replacing teachers with intelligent machines, or dispensing with
all formal education altogether. It recognizes the importance of the teacher’s role as
difﬁcultator rather than a mere facilitator or guide on the side (Bax, 2011b). It realizes
that it is in and through effective teaching that CALL as well as education in general
will prosper.
This volume represents an attempt to map the parameters of contemporary CALL
and incorporates 18 previously unpublished chapters on topical areas authored by
leading international researchers in the ﬁeld. It is intended that the collection will
provide a reference work for upper-level undergraduates, graduate students and
researchers by giving them a more focused and clearer overview of how the different
areas of contemporary CALL are shaping the ﬁeld, as well as an understanding of
the latest research approaches being developed to explore them. The contributors
present accessible, yet detailed, analyses of recent methods and theory in the ﬁeld,
including recent applications in social media, second language teacher education,
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
10
computer-assisted language testing, online and distance language learning,
telecollaboration, 3D virtual worlds and digital games, mobile learning, CALL in low-
tech contexts, intelligent CALL, technology-enhanced reading and writing, digital
feedback and learner autonomy. It is intended that the volume will fulﬁl a range of aims
and objectives, with the following being explicitly and comprehensively addressed:
(a) To provide a historical overview of the ways in which language learning
technologies have been interpreted and to identify the antecedent
conceptualizations, and relationships with other disciplines, that have
contributed to current usages;
(b) To provide a critical overview of contemporary research in the ﬁeld and the ways
in which such research is leading to a clearer, and more coherent, theoretical
understanding;
(c) To document research designed to explore the relationship between theory and
practice in the promotion of technology-mediated learning in a range of formal
and informal educational settings;
(d) To identify and explore new directions and approaches to research that can both
extend and challenge existing models and paradigms within language learning
technologies.
Given that it has passed through earlier phases in which technology was typically
integrated without a clear pedagogical rationale, contemporary CALL, as this volume
argues, has much to recommend it to debates about the wider process of technology
integration. While promising ‘incremental change’ might not grab a passing reader’s
interest as much as the promise of a ‘digital education revolution’, such a vision
remains more realistic and ultimately more well-attuned to the history of learning with
technology.
References
Bax, S. (2003). CALL – past, present and future. System, 31(1), 13–28.
— (2011a). Normalisation revisited: The effective use of technology in language education.
International Journal of Computer-Assisted Language Learning and Teaching (IJCALLT),
1(2), 1–15.
— (2011b). Beyond the wow factor. In M. Thomas (Ed.), Digital education: Opportunities
for social collaboration (pp. 239–56). London & New York: Palgrave.
Bilton, N. (2012). Behind the Google goggles, virtual reality. Retrieved www.nytimes.
com/2012/02/23/technology/google-glasses-will-be-powered-by-android.html
Brick, B. (2010). Social networking sites and language learning. International Journal of
Virtual and Personal Learning Environments, 2(3), 18–31.
Bruns, Axel. (2008). Blogs, Wikipedia, Second Life, and beyond: From production to
produsage. New York: Peter Lang.
THE ROLE OF DIGITAL MEDIA AND INCREMENTAL CHANGE 11
Chapelle, C. (2001). Computer applications in second language acquisition: Foundations
for teaching, testing, and research. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2003). English language learning and technology: Lectures on applied linguistics in
the age of information and communication technology. Amsterdam: John Benjamins
Publishing.
Cuban, L. (1986). Teachers and machines: The classroom use of technology since 1920.
New York: Teachers College Press.
— (2001). Oversold and underused: Computers in classrooms, 1980–2000. Cambridge:
Harvard University Press.
Gee, J. P
. (2003). What video games have to teach us about learning and literacy. New
York: Palgrave Macmillan.
— (2004). Situated language and learning: A critique of traditional schooling. New York:
Routledge.
Gee, J. P
., & Hayes, E. (2011). Language and learning in the digital age. London & New
York: Routledge.
Harrison, R., & Thomas, M. (2009). Identity in online communities: Social networking sites
and language learning. International Journal of Emerging Technologies and Society,
7(2), 108–23.
Internetworldstats (2012). Internet growth statistics: Usage and poplulation statistics.
Retrieved from www.internetworldstats.com/emarketing.htm
Ito, M., Baumer, S., Bittanti, M., Boyd, D., Cody, R., Herr-Stephenson, B. et al. (2009).
Hanging out, messing around, geeking out: Living and learning with new media.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jenkins, H. (2009). Confronting the challenges of participatory culture: Media education
for the 21st century. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lee, C. P
., Dourish, P
., & Mark, G. (2006). The human infrastructure of cyberinfrastructure.
Proceedings of CSCW ’06. Retrieved from http://portal.acm/org
Levy, M., & Stockwell, G. (2006). CALL dimensions: Options and issues in
computer-assisted language learning. Mahweh, NJ & London: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Motteram, G., & Brett, P
. (2000). A special interest in computers. Learning and teaching
with information and communications technologies. Whitstable: IATEFL Publications.
Papert, S. (1993). The children’s machine: Rethinking school in the age of the computer.
New York: Basic Books.
Reinders, H. (2012) (Ed.). Digital games in language learning and teaching. Basingstoke:
Palgrave Macmillan.
Reinders, H., & Darasawang, P
. (2011). Diversity in language support. In G. Stockwell (Ed.),
Computer-assisted language learning: Diversity in research and practice. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Selwyn, N. (2011a). Education and technology: Key issues and debates. London & New
York: Continuum.
— (2011b). Schools and schooling in the digital age: A critical analysis. London & New York:
Routledge.
Selwyn, N., Potter, J., & Cranmer, S. (2010). Primary schools and ICT: Learning from pupil
perspectives. London & New York: Continuum.
Shaffer, D. (2008). Education in the digital age. The Nordic Journal of Digital Literacy, 4(1),
39–51.
Thomas, M. (2009) (Ed.). Handbook of research on Web 2.0 and second language learning.
Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
12
— (2011a) (Ed.). Deconstructing digital natives: Young people, technology and the new
literacies. London & New York: Routledge.
— (2011b) (Ed.). Digital education: Opportunities for social collaboration. London & New
York: Palgrave Macmillan.
— (2012). Contextualising digital game-based language learning: Transformational
paradigm shift or business as usual? In H. Reinders (Ed.), Digital games in language
learning and teaching (pp. 11–31). Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Thomas, M., & Reinders, H. (2010) (Eds.). Task-based language learning and teaching with
technology. London & New York: Continuum.
Warschauer, M. (2011). Learning in the cloud: How (and why) to transform schools with
digital media. New York & London: Teachers College Press.
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2007). Audience, authorship, and artifact: The emergent
semiotics of Web 2.0. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 27, 1–23.
Warschauer, M., & Healey, D. (1998). Computers and language learning: An overview,
Language Teaching, 31, 57–71.
Wolf, G. (1996). The Wired interview. Steve Jobs: The next insanely great thing. Wired.
Retrieved from www.wired.com/wired/archive/4.02/jobs_pr.html
PART ONE
The CALL context
Section introduction
Michael Thomas, Hayo Reinders
and Mark Warschauer
In order to understand the development of computer-assisted language learning
(CALL) over the last three decades it is necessary to begin by considering a
number of its most important dimensions (Levy & Stockwell, 2006). During this time
CALL research has evolved from a relatively narrow area of specialist interest to a
more widespread activity characterized by an increasing range of subﬁelds. These
developments are a product of numerous factors including in particular advances
in technologies that have enabled earlier pedagogical aims to be realized as faster
broadband speeds have produced more sophisticated multimedia applications and
environments (Pegrum, 2009).
The ﬁve chapters in the ﬁrst section of this volume map the parameters of CALL,
focusing on how the ﬁeld has developed historically over this period as it has moved
towards discussion of technology integration and normalization (Bax, 2003, 2011;
Warschauer & Healey, 1998); the emergence of different research trends and the
current state of CALL research in the age of digital and social media (Tudini, 2010);
the importance of second language teacher professional development and CALL
(Hubbard & Levy, 2006); an overview of the key area of language testing and the
role of digital technologies in driving forward advances in intelligent testing platforms
(Brown, 1997); and a focus on CALL materials design in an era in which instructors
with limited expertise can harness Web 2.0 technologies to create sophisticated
technology-mediated language learning environments based on increased social
presence and community (Kehrwald, 2008, 2010).
Chapter 2 is a particularly important one in the context of the whole volume and
it provides an authoritative overview of the historical perspectives that have shaped
CALL during the last three decades since digital technologies started to become more
widespread. Davies, Otto and Rüschoff discuss how developments in the ﬁeld of CALL
have been shaped by available technologies as much as by important trends in second
language acquisition and theories of language education. Discussing previous notable
attempts to historicize CALL by Warschauer and Healey (1998) and Bax (2003, 2011),
the authors describe how invariably any attempt to produce such a narrative risks being
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
16
too linear, whereas the underlying reality is more complex with overlapping and often
contradictory dimensions. The history of CALL that emerges from the chapter covers
the period from the dominance of cognitive and psycholinguistic approaches through
to more recent developments focusing on participation and the social turn in SLA. In
the language classroom such developments have seen CALL technologies focused on
one discrete skill, to more integrated approaches combining interactive engagement in
reading, writing, speaking and listening. In this chapter pedagogical developments are
read against a background of increasingly sophisticated technologies, and the transition
from large mainframes through to the widespread availability of the World Wide Web
and more recently, portable digital devices.
Developments from the most recent phase of theWorldWideWeb and social media
are positioned at the centre of Chapter 3 which discusses research trends in CALL,
focusing in particular on the increasingly sophisticated research approaches developed
to map the rich interactive environments afforded by language learning environments
in Web 2.0. Meskill and Quah highlight the range of CALL research approaches that
have been used to understand the complex online, virtual and social environments that
language learners now use.They argue that in researching these new social dimensions
of CALL, new research approaches are being borrowed from other disciplines and
developed in an applied linguistics context thus leading to an enrichment of CALL
research and scholarship. The chapter focuses in particular on researching online
language learning environments, the pedagogies being used and the ‘online social/
affective dimensions’ to highlight a new set of methodological techniques to advance
CALL research.
In Chapter 4 the focus turns to consider the important challenge of teacher education.
Motteram, Slaouti and Onat-Stelma present a strong case for the need to have a broad
realignment of teacher education related to CALL based on sociocultural theory rather
than theory from second language acquisition (SLA). Indeed, sociocultural theory is
an increasingly strong presence in work on CALL research and the chapter reﬂects
this social turn among leading scholars, replacing the earlier cognitive approach with a
more ﬁnely attuned understanding of the multifarious social and cultural contexts and
dimensions in which learners study and learn languages. The chapter illustrates the
argument with the aid of three vignettes developed from earlier research undertaken
with Cambridge University Press on language teacher education and CALL (Motteram,
2011).
Developments in technology have been particularly evident in the internationally
important area of language testing where signiﬁcant developments have been made
during the last three decades. In Chapter 5, ‘Research on Computers in Language
Testing: Past, Present and Future’, James Dean Brown provides a thorough overview
of research trends, examining the past, present and potential future of computer-based
language testing (CBLT). Brown explains the practical research that dominated
past engagement on the subject, particularly in the area of item banking and
computer-adaptive language testing. Moving into the present, he demonstrates how
a number of specialist areas have evolved and widened their approach in the process
SECTION INTRODUCTION 17
by incorporating foci on computer assessment of vocabulary items, as well as the four
main skills, greater understanding of the test takers’ characteristics and the training
required of instructors who utilize new technologies.
In the ﬁnal chapter in Part One, we turn to consider research on the important area
of CALL materials design. In Chapter 6, ‘Materials Design in CALL: Social Presence
in Online Environments’, two researchers from the UK Open University, Hauck and
Warnecke, focus on Johnson’s (1999) argument that understanding the sociocultural
aspects of technology-enhanced learning could signiﬁcantly enhance CALL course and
materials design, thereby producing more effective language learning environments.
They pursue these claims by examining the marginalized role of social presence (SP),
a concept which derives from Garrison, Anderson and Archer’s (2000) widely cited
Community of Inquiry (CoI) model. Recent research from a study involving a tutor
training course in teaching English for Academic Purposes (EAP) is presented in order
to examine how materials design can be used to generate and enhance effective
social presence in computer-mediated communication environments. By researching
the asynchronous discussion board posts of the trainee tutors, they argue for the
need to re-approach the community of inquiry model which has often been guilty of
marginalizing social presence as opposed to cognitive and teaching presence. In their
ﬁnal recommendations, a new model is identiﬁed in which social presence plays a key
role in informing the process of CALL materials design and development.
The concerns of these six chapters describe how CALL environments have
changed and evolved over the last 30 years. They each reinforce the importance of
new instructor-learner relationships and how new technologies have presented CALL
materials designers and developers with opportunities to better realize interactive and
collaborative pedagogies that have been imagined at earlier stages in the history of
CALL but were previously impossible due to technical constraints.
References
Bax, S. (2003). CALL – Past, present and future. System, 31(1), 13–28.
— (2011). Normalisation revisited: The effective use of technology in language education.
International Journal of Computer-Assisted Language Learning and Teaching, 1(2), 1–15.
Brown, J. D. (1997). Computers in language testing: Present research and some future
directions. Language Learning and Technology, 1(1), 44–59.
Garrison, D. R., Anderson, T., & Archer, W. (2000). Critical inquiry in a text-based
environment: Computer conferencing in higher education. The Internet and Higher
Education, 2(2–3), 87–105.
Kehrwald, B. (2008). Understanding social presence in text-based online learning
environments. Distance Education, 29(1), 89.
— (2010). Being online: Social presence and subjectivity in online learning. London Review
of Education, 8(1), 39–50.
Levy, M., & Stockwell, G. (2006). CALL dimensions: Options and issues in
computer-assisted language learning. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
18
Motteram, G. (2011). Developing language learning materials with technology. In B.
Tomlinson (Ed.), Materials development in language teaching (pp. 303–27). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Pegrum, M. (2009). From blogs to bombs: The future of digital technologies in education.
Perth: University of Western Australia.
Tudini, V. (2010). Online second language acquisition. New York: Continuum.
Warschauer, M., & Healey, D. (1998). Computers and language learning: An overview,
Language Teaching, 31, 57–71.
2
Historical perspectives on CALL
Graham Davies1
, Sue E. K. Otto
and Bernd Rüschoﬀ
Summary
Historically computer-assisted language learning (CALL) has been shaped not only by
trends in language pedagogy and second language acquisition (SLA) theories, but
also by the state of computer technology. While the evolution of computer technology
can be described in a relatively linear and organized fashion, SLA and language
pedagogy have developed as a disorganized, multipronged and often contradictory
collection of notions and practices. As a result, viewing the growth of CALL through a
theoretical and pedagogical lens reveals a complex and fascinating history that spans
decades of technological advancement and reﬂects the multifaceted ﬁeld of language
pedagogy and SLA research from which it arose. This chapter traces the evolution of
CALL from the last half of the twentieth century – when cognitive and psycholinguistic
theories of SLA predominated – into the twenty-ﬁrst century, when theories and
pedagogies that emphasize the social dimensions of language learning have gained
traction. Computer technology grew from primitive mainframes to powerful networked
multimedia microcomputers with access to the internet and World Wide Web. Within
this context, CALL has progressed from drill and practice exercises targeting grammar
and vocabulary towards a wide array of sophisticated interactive programs for reading,
writing, listening, pronunciation and culture.
Introduction
The history of CALL has been well documented. Sanders (1995) and Levy (1997) cover
the period from its beginnings in the 1960s until the mid-1990s, and Delcloque (2000)
provides a comprehensive account of CALL until the beginning of the new millennium.
Davies (1997) covers the period 1976–96, reﬂecting on his personal experiences and
reminding us that there are many lessons that we can learn from the past. Jung (2005)
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
20
takes a bibliometric approach, focusing on the contents and nature of publications on
CALL and how they have reﬂected its constantly changing manifestations. Butler-Pascoe
(2011) takes us back to the early stages of the use of courseware in second language
teaching in the 1960s, through the emergence of multimedia in the 1990s and up to
new developments in the twenty-ﬁrst century encompassing the use of Web 2.0 tools
that provide new opportunities for computer-mediated communication (CMC). In light
of these previous studies, the aim of this chapter is to provide a historical overview of
the ways in which language learning technologies have been interpreted and to identify
the antecedent conceptualizations, and relationships with other disciplines that have
contributed to current usages.
Historically computer-assisted language learning has been shaped not only by trends
in language pedagogy and SLA theories, but also by the state of computer technology.
While the evolution of computer technology can be described in a relatively linear and
organized fashion, SLA and language pedagogy have developed as a disorganized,
multipronged and often contradictory collection of notions and practices. As a result,
viewing the growth of CALL through a theoretical and pedagogical lens reveals a
complex and fascinating history that spans decades of technological advancement and
reﬂects the multifaceted ﬁeld of language pedagogy and SLA research from which it
arose. This chapter traces the evolution of CALL from the last half of the twentieth
century, when cognitive and psycholinguistic theories predominated, through the
ﬁrst decade of the twenty-ﬁrst century, during which rising interest in theories and
pedagogy that emphasize the social dimensions of language learning has coincided
with the explosion in social networking and mobile technologies.
Origin of the term CALL
It is not entirely clear when the term CALL ﬁrst appeared. Computer-assisted
instruction (CAI) and computer-assisted learning (CAL) predate CALL as generic terms,
and CALI (computer-assisted language instruction) was incorporated into the name
of the professional association CALICO (Computer-Assisted Language Instructed
Consortium), which was founded in the United States in 1982. CALL appears to
have originated in the United Kingdom, reﬂecting a student-centred focus on learning
rather than instruction. The earliest documented use of the term CALL that we have
found is in a conference paper by Davies and Steel (1981). By 1982 the term CALL
was in widespread use in the United Kingdom, featuring in the title of the newsletter
CALLBOARD, which was ﬁrst published by Ealing College of Higher Education in 1982,
and in Davies and Higgins (1982). TESOL also adopted the term CALL, setting up its
CALL Interest Section (CALL-IS) in 1983 (Kenner, 1996; Stevens, 2003).
An alternative term to CALL emerged in the 1980s, namely technology-enhanced
language learning (TELL), which was felt to provide a more accurate description of the
activities which fall broadly within the range of CALL (Brown, 1988; Bush &Terry, 1997).
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 21
TELL was adopted by the TELL Consortium (now defunct), founded at the University
of Hull in 1993, and it ﬁgured in the name of the journal of CALL-Austria, TELL&CALL
(now defunct).The fact that the academic community that was involved in attempts to
integrate computer technologies into language learning saw the need to rethink the
original term and acronym is indicative of the fact that from very early on theoreticians
and practitioners alike saw the potential for enhancing rather than simply assisting
language learning and classroom practice when assessing emerging technological
applications and tools.
Early CALL: 1960s to 1970s
Most of the activity in CALL in its early days took place in the United States. Programs
were mainframe-based and primarily served the roles of tutor and drillmaster.
These programs were touted as a means to relieve teachers of repetitive tasks in
the classroom, allowing them to concentrate on communicative activities, give
students immediate feedback on their errors and track student performance, providing
remedial work when indicated. Pedagogically, language instruction was still guided by
behaviourist models of cognitive theory, which emphasized learning through repetitive
practice and negative and positive feedback.The audio-lingual method had emerged to
place new emphasis on oral skills, but this method also emphasized drill-and-practice
and reﬂected the continued belief in the importance of grammar, with roots in
grammar-translation. Among the highest proﬁle early mainframe projects were the
PLATO project (Programmed Logic for Automated Teaching Operations) (Hart, 1995)
at the University of Illinois and the TICCIT project (Time-shared Interactive Computer
Controlled Information Television) (Anderson, 1976; Jones, 1995) at the University of
Texas and Brigham Young University (BYU).
The PLATO project began in 1960 and hit its peak in the mid- to late 1970s with the
PLATO IV project. Based on the computing power of a large mainframe computer, the
PLATO IV system’s most notable features were the plasma graphics terminals, which
could display animation and smoothly rendered graphics, including complex foreign
characters such as Chinese, its multimedia capability using a computer-controlled
audio device, the touch-screen input option, centralized storage and delivery of large
amounts of instructional material and an online community space where bulletin
board exchanges and multiplayer gameplaying took place. PLATO’s advanced technical
features foreshadowed a number of key capacities we take for granted in our era
of social networking, media-rich information and touch-screen hand-held technologies
that increasingly rely on the Cloud for central storage of assets.
Using the TUTOR programming language, curricular materials were developed for
many languages, including French, German, Hebrew, Chinese, Latin, Russian, ESL,
Spanish, Hindi, Swahili and Swedish. Traditional grammar drill-and-practice lessons
coexisted with lessons developed for Chinese tone recognition, German phonetics,
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
22
English literature and reading practice. Many PLATO terminals were installed at the
University of Illinois, and by the late 1970s over 50,000 hours of language instruction per
semester were typically logged (Hart, 1995). Part of the vision for PLATO was to have
remote sites connected to the Illinois mainframe and services sold by subscription.
PLATO terminals could be based anywhere there was a phone connection for distance
time-sharing of the lesson development tools by teachers and of the instructional
materials by students. In addition to the speciﬁc equipment involved and the cost of
the subscription, the long-distance phone charges that accrued when users accessed
the system were one of the biggest drawbacks of PLATO and constituted one factor
for its lack of success as a viable distance learning option. Although PLATO did not
ultimately succeed as a commercial distance education venture, it did succeed as a
large-scale instructional platform during the years of its existence, delivering massive
amounts of language instruction in multiple languages to an enormous number of
students.
The TICCIT project began in 1972 as a joint project of the Mitre Corporation with
the University of Texas and BYU that aimed to develop instructional materials for
remedial English and mathematics combining computer and television technologies.
The system used television to present information and examples. The student would
select a desired video choice on the computer, which would send a message to an
operator, who would load the appropriate tape and play the program, routing the signal
to the television at the student’s workstation (Anderson, 1976). Unlike some of the
other instructional software of the time that carefully controlled the learner’s pathway
through lessons and prescribed the difﬁculty level and help based on performance,
learner control was one of the basic tenets that guided TICCIT development (Jones,
1995). Students could move freely through the courseware, able to skip ahead, go
back and repeat or ask for more explanation or help on a concept, as desired. Such
developments, even when seen from a present-day perspective, can already be
described as innovative from an educational perspective too. Developers already had
in mind principles which are currently regarded as important ingredients of learning
practice, such as self-determined and autonomous learning, ﬂexibility of access or
even student-orientation.
In 1977 the original grant funding expired and TICCIT moved to BYU, where it was
expanded to include ESL, French, German, Italian and Spanish. (Although the TICCIT
name persisted, the television technology disappeared from the system at this point.)
Students could visually see what parts of the courseware they had completed and an
advisor function made suggestions for what they should do next but, in keeping with
the original TICCIT philosophy of learner control, it was up to the student to decide
how to use the exercises (which ones and in what order) and which help mechanisms
to access. The best-known foreign language work in TICCIT for languages was done
at BYU by Randall Jones, who created a comprehensive course for German grammar,
which combined tutorials and practice components and continued until 1992, when
it was replaced by a microcomputer-based version known as CLIPS (Computerized
Language Instruction and Practice Software). CLIPS still exists for English, ESL and
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 23
Spanish grammar, and it is available online by subscription offered by a commercial
learning software company.
The 1970s saw the production of many other smaller software development
projects on mainframes and minicomputers in the United States. These projects
included development of authoring tools to create exercises such as CALIS (Hussein,
Phelps & Bessent, 1980) and Dasher (Pusack & Otto, 1983–2010) – as well as packaged
exercises and tutorials, such as DECU/TUCO (Taylor, 1987), and the Course in Medical
and Technical Terminology, focusing on instruction in medical and scientiﬁc terms
derived from Greek and Latin (Tebben, 1979). It is interesting to note that authoring
tools were among the ﬁrst developments in these early stages of CALL, as they were
able to assist teachers in their efforts to provide their learners with more authentic,
up-to-date as well as target-group-speciﬁc and learner-differentiated content.
In her article reporting the results of her 1978–9 survey on CAI in foreign languages
in the United States, Olsen (1980) lists 62 language departments from 52 institutions
in 24 of the 50 states as using computers for language instruction. Programs almost
exclusively targeted ﬁrst- and second-year language courses. Predictably, the top three
languages for which CAI programs existed were French, Spanish and German, with
Latin a close fourth. Many of the departments that responded to Olsen’s survey had
indicated that they did not use CAI, citing a number of common reasons, including:
cost of equipment and program development; scepticism about the ability of a machine
to teach languages; lack of peer recognition of CAI materials development efforts for
tenure and promotion; lack of trained personnel; lack of ready-made programs; and
the inability of local computing technology to handle diacritical marks or alternate
fonts. Interestingly, these problems were to persist for decades, and one of the most
frustrating and stubborn issues was to be typing and display of foreign characters.
In the early days of computing, foreign characters were always problematic.
Regular terminals commonly used on campuses to connect to mainframes could not
display the special characters required for foreign languages. (The PLATO system was
an exception, as were a few other special graphics terminals available at the time.)
Various conventions were typically used to indicate special characters – for example a
vowel followed by a colon indicated an umlauted character or a vowel followed by an
apostrophe indicated a character with an acute accent. Even when it became possible
to display text that contained foreign characters, it was a long time before any real
standardization existed for fonts containing characters beyond those used in common
European languages. A multiplicity of foreign character fonts emerged for languages
in non-Roman characters, such as Russian, Hebrew and Arabic; and there were even
special boards that enabled typing and displaying languages such as Chinese. Solutions
were often expensive and usually local – that is, dependent on locally installed hardware
and software. With the creation of the Unicode consortium and their efforts over the
last 20 years to establish a universal character encoding standard, these issues have
slowly been resolved.
There was little signiﬁcant activity in CALL in the United Kingdom until the early
1980s. Rex Last had been developing CALL materials on a mainframe ICL1904S
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
24
computer at the University of Hull in the late 1970s, using an authoring package known
simply as EXERCISE, which was Last’s own creation, enabling him to produce large
quantities of drill-and-practice activities for students of German. EXERCISE was also
used to create materials for students of Dutch. Interesting though they were, Last’s
materials could not be used outside the environment in which they were created – one
of the drawbacks of working on a university’s mainframe computer (Last, 1984).
While most of the programs from the 1970s have long since disappeared,
a few survived in one form or another into the early twenty-ﬁrst century due to
success in commercial distribution and sustained upgrading to new platforms,
including Dasher, CALIS (later WinCALIS ) and the Course in Medical and Technical
Terminology, as mentioned above. Of course, despite their longevity, these older
drill-and practice programs by no means represent current thinking about the best
use of computer technology for language learning. Nevertheless, each generation
of CALL has resulted in valuable lessons learned, which eventually ﬁltered down to
later adopters.
Each major advance in computing technology has triggered a temporary step
backwards in the production and delivery of CALL materials. What had arduously
been developed for one dominant technology had to be rethought and reprogrammed
for the promising new technology. When microcomputers ﬁrst appeared, they did
not seem to pose a real threat to large mainframes that offered powerful data
processing and centralized storage of lessons and record-keeping data. With their
48K of memory and no easily accessible storage for programs and data (ﬂoppy or
hard disk), early microcomputers seemed more like toys than serious computers.
Nevertheless, they quickly grew into the much cheaper platform of choice with
graphics capabilities that allowed graphic, animation and foreign character entry and
display not available from standard mainframe systems. When the internet and World
Wide Web gained traction, developers had to shift gears again, facing problems such
as a new generation of underdeveloped development tools and the loss of the ability
to control and deliver media with the precision possible with older technologies such
as videodisc. Of course, these issues now seem irrelevant, given the advances that
produced the social Web that is deﬁned by the mobile devices and creative tools and
services that have emerged during the ﬁrst part of the twenty-ﬁrst century (O’Reilly,
2005).
This last transition to the Web has also signalled a signiﬁcant shift in the use of
technology for language learning. The exploitation of the technology as a tutor and
drillmaster – that is, a replacement for the teacher – has faded into the background,
overshadowed by an extensive array of Web-based tools to enable creative and
communicative activities. Although there are still tutorial and practice programs,
they are now produced as a matter of course by textbook publishers as part of the
standard ‘ancillary’ package. At the same time, faculty developers no longer focus on
programming or authoring exercise materials. Instead they have shifted their efforts to
the design of activities that incorporate the powerful new communication tools at their
disposal (Otto & Pusack, 2009).
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 25
CALL and the microcomputer: The 1980s
The impact of CALL and technology-enhanced applications for language learning
changed dramatically with the advent of the ﬁrst affordable microcomputers, which
appeared in educational institutions in increasing numbers from the late 1970s onwards.
This included primary and secondary schools, which up until this time had little or no
access to computers.The ﬁrst complete CALL packages for microcomputers emerged
in the early 1980s, for example Apfeldeutsch (Williams, Davies & Williams, 1981), a
substantial set of drill-and-practice exercises for beginners in German, which ran on
the Apple II computer. Compatibility between different microcomputers was a major
problem at this time. Each microcomputer manufacturer – and there were many of
them – used its own operating system, with the result that programs could not easily
be exchanged between institutions, and software publishers were unsure about which
computer to target in order to achieve reasonable sales. The microcomputer boom
period of the early 1980s saw a ﬂurry of publications on CALL (Ahmad et al., 1985;
Davies & Higgins, 1982; Davies & Higgins, 1985; Higgins & Johns, 1984; Hope, Taylor
& Pusack, 1984; Kenning & Kenning, 1984; Last, 1984). The ﬁrst professional CALL
associations were also founded at this time: CALICO in the United States (1982) and
EUROCALL in Europe (1986). EUROCALL was put on a ﬁrmer footing in 1993, when
it received funding from the European Commission (EU) that enabled it to become a
formal professional association.
Early microcomputers had limited graphic options and monochrome displays, but
they offered considerable possibilities for text-based practice. In terms of language
teaching pedagogy, however, the clock was turned back in the early 1980s, resulting
in the production of an abundance of grammar and vocabulary practice programs –
drill-and-practice or ‘drill-and-kill’ – in spite of the fact that the communicative approach
was by now well established. But some programs were more imaginative, for example
CLEF (1985) and TUCO II (Taylor, 1987), offering a semi-intelligent approach, making
use of extensive tutorial sequences, discrete error analysis and feedback. Some CALL
developers explored artiﬁcial intelligence (AI), utilizing semantic and syntactic parsers
for processing students’ natural language responses. Among the earliest attempts to
producemicrocomputer-basedAIsoftwareforforeignlanguageweretheSpanishgames
for communicative practice, Juegos Comunicativos (Bassein & Underwood, 1985) and
the German spy game Spion (Sanders & Sanders, 1995). These programs emphasized
the communicative aspects of language, which resonated with current classroom
methodologies that focused on proﬁciency and communicative competence.
Developers of CALL software began to ﬁnd their feet using the new medium and
discovered new pedagogical approaches, which led to the production of text-only
simulations such as a Granville: The Prize Holiday Package (Cambridge University
Press, 1986) and London Adventure (The British Council/Cambridge University Press,
1986). There were also computerized action mazes, based on printed works such as
Berer and Rinvolucri (1981).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
26
Apart from the simulations described above, there were few innovative pedagogical
approaches in CALL that arose as a direct result of the use of information and
communications technology (ICT). Respondents to Levy’s survey of CALL conceptual
frameworks, which he concluded in 1991, cited Data-Driven Learning (DDL) – the use
of concordancers in the classroom – as the only approach that was ‘conceived with
the computer in mind’ (Levy, 1997
, p. 123). This approach was rooted in the idea that
discovery-oriented, inductive or concept learning by or from examples might be more
fruitful when addressing grammar or vocabulary (Johns & King, 1991). In addition, the
tools developed, for example concordancing software or context-oriented learnware
such as Johns’s appropriately named Contexts program (Johns, 1997), are perfect
examples of technology empowering classroom practice with new and additional
options that would not have been possible without it.
It is interesting to note that the advent of technology-enhanced learning materials
on microcomputers coincided with a rethinking of the methodological framework of
language learning in general (Bax, 2003; Warschauer, 1996; Warschauer & Healey,
1998).Trends such as task-based learning (TBL) and cognitive-constructivist approaches
gradually found their match in digital technologies, as it was recognized that computer
tools might be one option to facilitate the implementation of a methodology for
language learning focusing more on authenticity in contents, contexts and tasks.
Digital technologies afforded more ﬂexibility in application and exploitation, as these
were not restricted, to name but one aspect, by the kinds of linearity in content
presentation characteristic of analogue media, for example, audiotapes or videos.
Consequently, new technologies started to be seen by some as having the potential to
solve a number of practical problems, particularly in more ﬂexibly exploiting authentic
resources and exposing learners to ‘thinking tasks’, rather than pure exercises. This
theoretical background did, in fact, stimulate both theoreticians and practitioners. DDL
can be summarized as follows:
a focus on the exploitation of authentic materials even when dealing with
l
tasks such as the acquisition of grammatical structures and lexical items;
a focus on real, exploratory tasks and activities rather than traditional
l
‘drill-and-kill’ exercises;
a focus on learner-centred activities;
l
a focus on the use of computer-assisted cognitive tools, for example
l
text corpora and concordancing software, rather than ready-made or
off-the-shelf learnware.
The ideas underlying DDL are, in fact, ﬁrmly rooted in some of the English as a Foreign
Language paradigms emerging in the course of the 1980s. Most obviously, concepts
described asTBL – an approach initially developed in the 1980s by the Indian language
teaching specialist, N. S. Prabhu – form a relevant backbone to such developments in
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 27
CALL (Prabhu, 1987). There can be no doubt that TBL is relevant to the exploitation
of new technologies for language teaching in general as well as DDL in particular.
TBL is based on the idea that the acquisition of language and linguistic competence
as well as language and language learning awareness can best be realized through
tasks which encourage the learner not to focus explicitly on the structure and the
rules of the new language. Learners will acquire the form of the foreign language
because they are engaged in exploring aspects of the target language on the basis
of authentic content. Task-oriented integration of CALL applications into language
learning processes, based on constructivist principles, gradually became more
common practice, and some of the following examples can be regarded as exemplary
for that (Rüschoff, 2002a, 2002b).
Consequently, CALL developers started to consider options of facilitating the
integration of genuine or authentic materials in the language classroom as well as to
focus on more genuine and real activities in CALL-enhanced learning practice. Authentic
or genuine materials, asWiddowson (1979, p. 80) pointed out, are language samples not
constructed for the purpose of language learning. Authentic tasks would then be tasks
and learning projects as well as activities of knowledge construction, which truly enable
learners to explore the target language in its structure and functionality when working
with such genuine ‘texts’. Little (1989, p. 5) describes this approach to authenticity in
language learning as creating opportunities for the learner to ‘psychologically interact’
with the target language, ‘by which we mean the psychological processing of target
language input in such a way that it interlocks with and modiﬁes the learner’s existing
knowledge’.
Among the innovative uses of new technologies in language learning, tools for
the creation of discovery-based and exploratory learning materials rank very highly
within a typology ofTELL software. One such tool is concordancing software, originally
developed as a device to assist research in corpus linguistics. Concordancers can be
used with any textual corpus consisting of a potentially unlimited number of texts
compiled into a database. Their basic function is to extract lists with contexts of any
word or structure entered into the search option, allowing the learner to research ‘the
company that words keep’, as Johns (1986, p. 121) put it (based on Firth, 1957), and
to try to discover how language works or what particular terms or vocabulary mean
from sample contexts extracted from text corpora. Software such as Oxford University
Press’sMicro-Concord(Johns,1986),Longman’sMini-Concordancerandlatertoolssuch
as Athelstan’s MonoConc, provided access to any electronic text and the possibility of
conducting a search for the occurrence of particular words, structures or combination
of words. These are then listed in contexts lists – so-called concordances. Learners
are invited to deduce for themselves the exact difference in meaning, connotation
and grammatical features with regard to the key word in context. Grammatical rules
can be acquired as well when learners can discover, rather than to be taught, rules by
examining many instances of targeted grammatical features. Options for developing
learning tasks based on contexts and lists have been described in detail in publications
by Johns (1986), Johns and King (1991), Tribble and Jones (1997) and Rézeau (2001).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
28
‘Total Cloze’ programs such as Higgins’s Storyboard, published by Wida Software
in 1982, are another example of a pedagogical approach that necessitated the use of
a computer, Storyboard was derived from Johns’s Textbag program, in which a whole
text is deleted, leaving only punctuation and markers representing the shape of words
(Higgins & Johns 1984, pp. 54–7). In such programs the student’s task was to complete
the text using intelligent guesswork, trial and error and a variety of other strategies
as documented, for example, by Trippen, Legenhausen and Wolff (1988). Storyboard
spawned numerous imitations and spin-offs, including Developing Tray, CopyWrite,
Eclipse, Rhubarb, Quartext and Fun with Texts.
At the same time as the development of CALL programs during the 1980s, there
was a growth in generic applications such as word-processors, databases, desktop
publishing software, spreadsheets and communications software (e.g., email). The
increasing availability of these applications – dubbed ‘ofﬁce programs’ by Hardisty and
Windeatt (1989, pp. 29–46) – led to language teachers discovering innovative ways
in which they could be exploited. The use of such generic programs could even be
considered as a very early step towards the process of ‘normalization’ of the use
of computers in the foreign languages classroom as described by Bax (2003). This
can also be concluded from the fact that at this time the ﬁrst add-ons and tools for
word-processors for language learning were developed, which allowed for almost
automatic processing of electronic text into worksheets and exercise materials. Such
developments, which were started in the 1980s and could be deﬁned as ﬁrst-generation
applications for language teachers, resulted in currently available tools such as LingoFox,
an application that enables the production of electronic and printed exercises on lexis,
orthography, syntax or reading comprehension from computer readable texts in many
languages. After detailed parsing of a chosen text, the program provides information
about the text, enabling the teacher to determine the difﬁculty level and to decide
on its precise usage in learning. Exercise types range from a variety of gap-ﬁlling,
cloze and scrambling to games and activities fostering reading and comprehension
strategies, all generated from authentic texts.
A major drawback at this time was that microcomputers did not have the capability
of recording and playing back sound, although various peripheral devices emerged
to meet this need, including the TCCR 530 (Tandberg Computer Controlled Cassette
Recorder). The Tandberg TCCR 530 was a modiﬁed audiocassette recorder that could
be connected to a microcomputer, making it possible to integrate sound into learning
materials in a controlled way. While this unit was initially used in more traditional
exercise formats, such as listening comprehension tests, the option of integrating
simple commands in learning software to play predeﬁned clips quickly led to more
interactive ways of integrating sound into CALL software. Learners were, for example,
given the option of choosing and replaying alternative versions of a dialogue before
dealing with comprehension questions. In addition, selected extracts from such
dialogues could be made available as part of the help offered or integrated into the
feedback provided by a learning package. This was, of course, a rather crude and –
for the software developer – time-consuming way of creating such ﬁrst-generation
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 29
interactive audio-enhanced software, but ideas developed for such systems were
quickly adapted to truly interactive digital sound-enhanced CALL software with the
advent of sound cards, which began to appear in around 1988.
In the 1980s CALL programs in the United States took on new dimensions with
advances in technology, particularly in the proliferation of microcomputers such as
the Apple and the IBM PC. Many software packages of this period reﬂected a shift
away from a grammar focus towards an emphasis on narrative contexts, listening,
reading and intrinsic motivation through engagement with a game, story and/or an
exploratory environment. During this decade interactive videodiscs represented the
cutting-edge technology, one that provided easy and precise control over playback of
content (video, text, audio and still images). A survey (Rubin et al., 1990) identiﬁed 72
interactive videodisc-based programs.
Among the highest proﬁle CALL projects launched in the 1980s were the ambitious
videodisc-based simulations that aimed to provide immersion experiences in the
target language. The two best-known videodisc-based simulation projects were
BYU’s Montevidisco, for learners of Spanish, and MIT’s A la rencontre de Philippe,
for learners of French. In Montevidisco the learner is cast in the role of a tourist in a
ﬁctitious town in Mexico and must interact with salesmen, waitresses, policemen and
other inhabitants (Schneider & Bennion, 1984). A la rencontre de Philippe wraps up
language learning in a real-life simulation set in Paris. The learner must help Philippe,
a freelance journalist living in Paris who has just broken up with his girlfriend, ﬁnd an
apartment and help him get a better job. A la rencontre de Philippe ﬁrst appeared in
the late 1980s, having been developed by the Athena Language Learning Project that
ran from 1984 to 1989. It was later published by Yale University Press (Furstenberg,
1993), and a version on CD-ROM came out in 2006. EXPODISC (conceived in the late
1980s and published in 1990) simulated a business trip to Madrid in which the learner
played the role of assistant to the export manager of a British company (Davies, 1991).
The Domesday videodisc, which was published by the BBC in 1986 to commemorate
the 900th anniversary of the creation of the original Domesday Book, was not intended
primarily as a resource for language learning and teaching, but the rich collection of
authentic texts that it contained, in combination with hundreds of photographs and
maps, proved to be invaluable for teachers of English as a foreign language. The main
drawback was that it required a cumbersome and unique hardware set-up, combining
a BBC Master computer (an upgraded version of the BBC Micro), expanded with a
SCSI controller and linked to a Philips VP415 videodisc player.The Domesday videodisc
quickly became obsolete, but the BBC has now relaunched the project online (see
www.bbc.co.uk/history/domesday).
However, there were only a modest number of videodiscs produced expressly for
the foreign language market – in the range of 300 titles, not counting commercially
distributed feature ﬁlms, and the videodisc’s failure to thrive in the commercial market
led to its replacement in the educational market during the course of the 1990s by
other technologies, particularly CD-ROMs, DVDs and, eventually, by streaming media
servers.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
30
Repositioning CALL: The 1990s
In the course of the 1990s the use of ICT in language learning and teaching became
ﬁrmly established, and the use of the term CALL and its earlier associations with drills
seemed inappropriate for newer approaches, for example Johns’s concept of DDL as
mentioned above. Levy, on the other hand, saw CALL in a much wider context, namely
‘the search for and study of applications of the computer in language teaching and
learning’ (Levy, 1997
, p. 1), and it is this deﬁnition that appears to have been accepted
ever since.
When CALL began to reach a wider audience in the 1990s, a number of efforts were
made to document its history and to identify its changing phases. Sanders (1995),
Levy (1997) and Davies (1997) have already been mentioned. Warschauer (1996) and
Warschauer and Healey (1998) identiﬁed three phases of CALL, classiﬁed according to
their underlying pedagogical and methodological approaches:
BehaviouristCALL:Inthisphase,whichwasconceivedinthe1950sandimplemented
in the 1960s and 1970s, the computer played the role of tutor, serving mainly as
a vehicle for delivering instructional materials to the learner. Drill-and-practice
programs were a prominent feature of this phase.
Communicative CALL: In this phase, which became prominent in the 1970s and
1980s, the computer continued to be used as a vehicle for practising language
skills, but in a non-drill format and with a greater degree of student choice, control
and interaction.
Integrative CALL: This phase was marked by the introduction of two important
innovations: multimedia and the Internet, both of which had become prominent by
the mid-1990s.
The dates of these three phases can be called into question, however, as pointed out
by Bax (2003). Bax offered a different critical examination and reassessment of the
history of CALL, deﬁning and describing three approaches to CALL as opposed to the
three phases of CALL identiﬁed by Warschauer (1996) and Warschauer and Healey
(1998). Bax saw the history of CALL in terms of (i) Restricted CALL, (ii) Open CALL and
(iii) Integrated CALL, arguing that this allows a more detailed analysis of institutions
and classrooms than earlier analyses. It was suggested that in 2003 we were using
the second approach, Open CALL, but that the aim should be to attain a state of
‘normalization’ in which the technology is invisible and truly integrated into teachers’
everyday practice.
The advent of the multimedia PC in the 1990s led to programs that were able to
record and play back sound, a major breakthrough that language teachers had been
waiting for since the ﬁrst microcomputers appeared. This led to new pedagogical
approaches, moving further away from the drill-and-practice programs of the 1980s and
earlier. The Brøderbund series of ‘Talking Books’ CD-ROMs was launched, beginning
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 31
with Just Grandma and Me (1992), which offered text and sound in three languages,
US English, Latin American Spanish and Japanese. The learner could switch between
the different languages, read and listen to the texts, and also click on objects on the
screen, triggering a range of animations, sound effects and spoken language.
Simulations on videodisc, which had appeared in the 1980s (see previous section),
soon began to give way to simulations on CD-ROM, such as Nuevos Destinos,
companion software to a Spanish telenovela in which the student performs the role of
a legal assistant to one of the main characters (Blake, McGraw-Hill College & WGBH/
Boston, 1993), and the multilingual mystery game, Who is Oscar Lake? (1995). Initially
the quality of video on CD-ROMs was much inferior to that on interactive videodiscs,
but it gradually caught up. The quality of audio recordings was, however, good and
CD-ROMs offered new opportunities for students to engage in listen/respond/playback
activities, for example, as in the Encounters series of CD-ROMs, published by Hodder
and Stoughton and the TELL Consortium in 1997
. CD-ROMs incorporating Automatic
Speech Recognition (ASR) also appeared around this time, for example Syracuse’s
Triple Play series (later renamed Smart Start) and Auralog’s Talk to Me and Tell me
More series.
The appearance of the World Wide Web – now known simply as the Web – is
probably the most signiﬁcant development in ICT during the last 30 years. The Web
was the brainchild of a British scientist,Tim Berners-Lee, who developed the idea while
working at the Centre Européen pour la Recherche Nucleaire (CERN) in Switzerland.
Initially a closed system, the Web went public with the launch of the ﬁrst Web browser,
Mosaic (1993), which was followed by Netscape in 1994. In its early days the Web
was used mainly as a tool for locating resources. Most websites offered only texts,
but some offered both texts and images. On the whole, however, Web interactivity
was very limited, for example to discussion lists and forums. There was a growth of
interactive possibilities on the Web when audio and video were introduced, but the
quality of audio and video was initially inferior to that offered by interactive videodiscs
and CD-ROMs.
The demand for interactive materials on the Web led in turn to a demand from
teachers for authoring tools. Hot Potatoes (Arneil & Holmes, 1998–2009) is a typical
example of a Web authoring tool. The Hot Potatoes templates enable the speedy
creation of multiple choice, gap-ﬁlling, matching, jumbled sentences, crosswords and
short text entry exercises. While it can be argued that such exercises are essentially
drill-and-practice, this tool proved extremely popular with language teachers and it
continues to be used extensively for the creation of interactive exercises and tests on
the Web.
‘E-learning’ – usually interpreted as learning online – became the buzz word in the
late 1990s, and there was an explosion of virtual learning environments (VLEs), such
as Blackboard, to serve this need. VLEs proved to be useful in providing teachers with
tools to create online courses, together with facilities for teacher-learner communication
and peer-to-peer communication. However, they also attracted criticism insofar as the
underlying pedagogy attempted to address a very wide range of subjects, and thus did
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
32
not necessarily ﬁt in with established practice in language learning and teaching. VLEs
continue to be popular, however. The advent of Moodle, an open-source VLE, in the
late 1990s has led to the wider adoption of VLEs.The UK Open University, for example,
selected Moodle for the delivery of a wide range of its courses, including language
courses, making it the largest user of Moodle in the world.
Faster and more efﬁcient internet connectivity became available as the Web
expanded, with the result that language teachers could exploit applications that went
beyond offering sets of grammar exercises. Such applications included MUDs and
MOOs – multi-user domains and multi-user-domains object oriented. MUDs were
originally designed as text-based, role-playing adventure games to be engaged in
across computer networks but they also offered opportunities for collaboration and
education, including language learning. Players log into a MOO to communicate with
other MOO users either synchronously or asynchronously. Von der Emde et al. (2001)
and Shield (2003) describe how MOOs have been used as language learning tools.
MOOs were followed by MUVEs (Multi-User Virtual Environments), three-
dimensional virtual environments, which are also known as virtual worlds. Examples
of such virtual worlds, which appeared from the mid-1990s onwards, include Active
Worlds (1995) and Traveler (1996). Svensson (2003) describes ways in which these 3D
worlds could be exploited for language learning and teaching (see also Sadler & Dooly,
this volume).
CALL and Web 2.0: The 2000s
By the early 2000s the quality of audio and video on theWeb had improved considerably,
and complete language courses began to appear, notably the range of courses offered
by commercial entities, such as the BBC (www.bbc.co.uk/languages/) and by university
and government projects, for example Chinese Online (East China Normal University,
www.hanyu.com.cn/), LangNet (US Departments of Defense, Education and State,
www.langnet.org/) and the CAMILLE Group’s InGenio Project (Universidad Politécnica
de Valencia, camilleweb.upv.es/camille/).
It should be noted though that the limitations of complete individualization by means
of online self-study courses without guidance and integration had been recognized by
this time. This resulted in the fact that ‘e-learning’ was redeﬁned as ‘blended learning’
as it became clear that Web-based activities in a traditional self-study mode could
not ‘replace’ classroom practice and social interaction on language learning but would
support and extend it.
The term Web 2.0 gained popularity following the ﬁrst of a series of Web 2.0
conferences initiated in 2004 (O’Reilly, 2005). Essentially, the term Web 2.0 was an
attempt to redeﬁne what the Web might potentially achieve or had become: a social
platform for collaboration, knowledge sharing and networking. It was not a break with
the past but more of a move towards the vision of the Web as originally conceived
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 33
by its creator, Tim Berners-Lee, namely as a ‘common information space in which
we communicate by sharing information’ and ‘a realistic mirror (or in fact the primary
embodiment) of the ways in which we work and play and socialize’ (Berners-Lee,
1998, n.p.).
From the early 2000s there was a breath-taking increase in the number of
Web-based communities that make use of typical Web 2.0 tools such as discussion
lists, blogs, wikis and podcasts, as well as dedicated social networking websites and
virtual worlds or MUVEs that promote sharing, collaboration and interaction (Thomas,
2009).
A host of Web applications now ‘facilitate participatory information sharing,
interoperability, user-centred design, and collaboration on the World Wide Web’ –
as the Wikipedia article on Web 2.0 puts it. The ever growing diversity and ﬂexibility
of digital media, together with the increased ease with which the communicative,
interactive, multimedia and networking potential of computers and the internet can
now be exploited, have also had a considerable inﬂuence on the way current principles
and paradigms underlying foreign language learning methodology can now be put into
practice. Current pedagogy advocates collaborative knowledge construction rather than
simple instructivist learning, as well as authenticity and task orientation. Furthermore,
new opportunities for research into language acquisition processes are opening up,
as the tools and platforms available on the Web make traceable both the processes of
creating and publishing meaningful output as well as the actual products themselves.
Digital media in their current realization have now become truly creative spaces which
have become as naturalized in the real world as radio or television and telephones. In
addition, access to personal or shared information has become so much easier than in
the past, as tablet PCs, smartphones and other mobile devices have been developed
into powerful appliances for daily use. In addition, data shared via social platforms,
shared resources in the form of cloud computing and applications such as Dropbox
have the potential to make collaborative creation, distribution and sharing of learning
materials a regular part of teaching and learning languages. Looking at current trends
in language education conﬁrms this perception.
In addition, such platforms and Web 2.0 tools for the publication of text, for example
Wikispaces, as well as media products in the form of podcasts or videocasts, such
as YouTube, have become a realistic option to broaden the scope of output-oriented
project work in language learning.This approach, very much rooted in current thinking in
language teaching methodology, appears to be in line with current deliberations within
the CALL and TELL community, and digital media are in the process of becoming part
of the standard repertoire of language teaching and learning, making output-oriented
language learning scenarios with a focus on stimulating meaning negotiation and output
production more practical at the grassroots level. As Swain and Deters (2007
, p. 831)
put it, in language learning ‘participation has found its place alongside acquisition’.
Similar to the notion that language learning might beneﬁt from contexts, in which
language production results from processes of meaning negotiation,Web technologies
and social software are rooted in the idea that knowledge can be accumulated more
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
34
fruitfully when negotiated collaboratively by groups sharing a common goal. One of
the remaining challenges that needs to be faced with regard to the full integration of
digital media into language learning is to deﬁne appropriate frameworks for research
into the actual processes that learners go through when participating in learning
opportunities of the kind outlined in this chapter. Digital media offer new opportunities
in this area, too, since participatory platforms and social software tools, such as wikis
and podcasting, do offer the option of tracing processes of output-production, thereby
making them observable. Consequently, all edits can be considered in terms of what
they document and represent as far as acts and processes of language learning are
concerned. Research of this kind will allow us to broaden the understanding of the
effects and effectiveness of digital media in innovative, creative and participatory
language learning.
In 2003 the 3D virtual world of Second Life (SL) was launched, following on from
the earlier 3D virtual worlds of the 1990s mentioned above. Second Life soon began
to attract the attention of language teachers. In 2005, Languagelab (www.languagelab.
com), the ﬁrst large-scale language school, was opened in Second Life, and since
2007 a series of in-world annual conferences known as SLanguages have taken place.
Cooke-Plagwitz (2008) provides an introduction to Second Life and examines some
of the advantages and disadvantages of its use as an instructional tool for foreign
language students and educators. Molka-Danielsen and Deutschmann (2009) look at
the wider context of learning in Second Life, focusing on instructional design, learner
modelling and building simulations (see Sadler & Dooly, this volume).
Conclusions
There is no question that digital media are now having a signiﬁcant impact on the
way foreign languages are being taught and learned. It can now be argued that
computer-assisted language learning has come of age, and that we are now entering a
fully integrated and naturalized phase of CALL. Digital tools for learning have become
integrated elements both in the real world and also in foreign language syllabuses. In
viewofthedevelopmentofevenmoreﬂexibletoolsforsocialnetworkingandknowledge
sharing, it can be said that CALL has reached the stage of normalization insofar as
so-called Web 2.0 applications have become a common social phenomenon.
Nevertheless, the debate on normalization simmers on. In a Special Issue of IJCALLT,
dedicated to this topic, Bax (2011) now questions the assumption that normalization is
both inevitable and desirable, and he asks if normalization occurs to the same degree
with each technology and if it follows the same steps for each technology.
Returning to the starting point of this chapter, namely our aim to match technological
developments with pedagogical and methodological progress in language learning,
one can say that in a number of cases the methodologies and paradigms discussed
for quite some time seem to have found their match in recent phenomena observable
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 35
in the way technologies are used in real life and language learning. One such example
is the concept of process writing, where the focus is more on the process of creating
written text rather than the end product, which is a principle underlying the use of and
participation in wikis, writing blogs etc., as well as contributing to social networks (see
Hegelheimer & Lee, this volume). In technological terms, simple use and consumption
has been replaced by participation and contribution, principles which are now also
seen as corner-stones of language learning, where ‘participation has found its place
alongside acquisition’ (Swain & Deters, 2007
, p. 831). As stated in an article on output-
oriented language learning (Rüschoff, 2009), the challenge that needs to be faced,
with regard to the full integration of digital media into language learning, is to deﬁne
appropriate frameworks for research into the actual processes that learners go through
when participating in learning opportunities of this kind. Such research would broaden
our understanding of the effects and effectiveness of digital media in output-oriented,
creative and participatory language learning.
Note
1 To the great sorrow of many friends and colleagues worldwide, Graham Davies passed
away on June 20, 2012. Graham was a pioneer in the ﬁeld of computer-assisted language
learning—a smart, funny, creative, entrepreneurial, warm, and generous man, who will
be fondly remembered as a dedicated teacher, proliﬁc scholar, experienced software
developer and publisher, and exceptional leader in our profession. Although he is gone,
his voice can be heard one more time in the pages of this chapter.
References
Ahmad, K., Corbett, G., Rogers, M., & Sussex, R. (1985). Computers, language learning
and language teaching. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Anderson, S. J. (1976, October). TICCIT Project. Paper presented at the National
Association of Educational Broadcasters, Chicago, Illinois. ERIC Document No.
ED134226. Retrieved from www.eric.ed.gov/
Arneil, S., & Holmes, M. (1998–2009). Hot Potatoes. Victoria, British Columbia: University
of Victoria and Half-Baked Software, Inc.
Bassein, R., & Underwood, J. (1985). Juegos Comunicativos: Games for communicative
practice in Spanish, based on Puntos de Partida. New York: Random House, Inc.
Bax, S. (2003). CALL – past, present and future. System, 31(1), 13–28.
— (2011). Normalisation revisited: The effective use of technology in language education.
International Journal of Computer-Assisted Language Learning and Teaching, 1(2), 1–15.
Berer, M., & Rinvolucri, M. (1981). MAZES: A problem-solving reader. London:
Heinemann.
Berners-Lee, T. (1998). The World Wide Web: A very short personal history. Retrieved from
www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/ShortHistory.html
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
36
Blake, R., McGraw-Hill College & WGBH/Boston (1993). Nuevos Destinos CD-ROM.
Boston, MA: WGBH Educational Foundation and Washington, DC: Corporation for
Public Broadcasting.
Brown, E. (Ed.) (1988). Learning languages with technology. Coventry: MESU.
Bush, M., & Terry, R. (Eds.) (1997). Technology-enhanced language learning. Lincolnwood,
IL: National Textbook Company.
Butler-Pascoe, M. E. (2011). The history of CALL: The intertwining paths of technology
and second/foreign language teaching. International Journal of Computer-Assisted
Language Learning and Teaching, 1(1), 16–32.
CLEF Group (1985). (Including authors at the University of Western Ontario, the University
of Guelph, the University of Calgary, and the London, Ontario, School Board.) CLEF
(Computer-assisted learning exercises for French). Guelph, ON: University of Guelph.
Cooke-Plagwitz, J. (2008). New directions in CALL: An objective introduction to Second
Life, CALICO Journal, 25(3), 547–57
.
Davies, G. (1991). EXPODISC: An interactive videodisc package for learners of Spanish.
In H. Savolainen & J. Telenius (Eds.), EUROCALL 1991, International Conference
on Computer-Assisted Language Learning (pp. 133–9). Helsinki: Helsinki School of
Economics.
— (1997). Lessons from the past, lessons for the future: 20 years of CALL. In A-K.
Korsvold & B. Rüschoff (Eds.), New technologies in language learning and teaching (pp.
27–52). Strasbourg: Council of Europe.
Davies, G., & Higgins, J. (1982). Computers, language and language learning. London: CILT.
— (1985). Using computers in language learning: A teacher’s guide. London: CILT.
Davies, G., & Steel, D. (1981, April). First steps in computer-assisted language learning
at Ealing College of Higher Education. Paper presented at the CAL 81 Symposium,
University of Leeds. Retrieved from www.ict4lt.org/en/Davies_Steel_1981.doc
Delcloque, P
. (2000). The history of computer-assisted language learning Web exhibition.
Retrieved from www.ict4lt.org/en/History_of_CALL.pdf
Firth, J. (1957). A synopsis of linguistic theory, 1930–1955. In J. R. Firth et al., Studies
in linguistic analysis. Special Volume of the Philological Society (pp. 1–32). Oxford:
Blackwell.
Furstenberg, G. (1993). A la rencontre de Philippe. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Retrieved from http://web.mit.edu/ﬂl/www/projects/Philippe.html
Hardisty, D., & Windeatt, S. (1989). CALL. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Harper, B. (1996). Using cognitive tools in interactive multimedia. Retrieved from www.
auc.edu.au/conf/Conf96/Papers/Harper.html
Hart, R. S. (1995). The Illinois PLATO foreign languages project. In R. Sanders (Ed.) (1995),
Thirty years of computer-assisted language instruction: Festschrift for John R. Russell,
CALICO Journal, 12(4), 15–37
.
Higgins, J., & Johns, T. (1984). Computers in language learning. London: Collins.
Hope, G. R., Taylor, H. F
., & Pusack, J. P
. (1984). Using computers in teaching foreign
languages. Washington, DC: Center for Applied Linguistics and Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich, Inc.
Hussein, K. O. F
., Phelps, L., & Bessent, H. (1980). CALIS. Durham, NC: Duke University.
Johns, T. (1986). Micro-concord. In M. Lesbats, F
. Frankel & M. Köchling (Eds.), Triangle
V: New technology and foreign language learning (pp. 120–33). Paris: Didier Erudition,
AUPELF
, The British Council, Goethe-Institut.
— (1997). Contexts: The background, development and trialling of a concordance-based
CALL program. In A. Wichmann, S. Fligelstone, T. McEnery & G. Knowles (Eds.),
Teaching and language corpora (pp. 100–15). London: Longman.
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON CALL 37
Johns, T., & King, P
. (Eds.) (1991). Classroom Concordancing, English Language Research
Journal, 4, Special Issue. Birmingham: University of Birmingham.
Jones, R. L. (1995). TICCIT and CLIPS: The early years. In R. Sanders (Ed.), Thirty years
of computer-assisted language instruction: Festschrift for John R. Russell, CALICO
Journal, 12(4), 84–96.
Jung, U. (2005). CALL: Past, present and future – A bibliometric approach. ReCALL, 17(1),
4–17
.
Kenner, R. (1996). A short history of the founding of the CALL
-IS Interest Section,
The CALL Interest Section: Community History, Montreal. Retrieved from http://
rogerkenner.ca/Gallery/CALL_IS/founding.htm
Kenning, M., & Kenning, M.-M. (1984). An introduction to computer-assisted language
teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Last, R. (1984). Language teaching and the microcomputer. Oxford: Blackwell.
Levy, M. (1997). CALL: Context and conceptualisation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Little, D. (Ed.) (1989). Self-access systems for language learning. Dublin: Authentik.
Molka-Danielsen, J., & Deutschmann, M. (2009). Learning and teaching in the virtual world
of Second Life. Trondheim: Tapir Academic Press.
O’Reilly,T. (2005). What is Web 2.0? Design patterns and business models for the next
generation of software. Retrieved from http://oreilly.com/web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html
Olsen, S. (1980). Foreign language departments and computer-assisted instruction: A
survey, The Modern Language Journal, 64(3), 341–9.
Otto, S. E. K., & Pusack, J. P
. (2009). Computer-assisted language learning authoring
issues. The Modern Language Journal, 93, 784–801.
Prabhu, N. S. (1987). Second language pedagogy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Prensky, M. (2001). Digital natives, digital immigrants. On the Horizon, 9(5), 1–6.
Pusack, J., & Otto, S. (1983, 1992, 1996, 2000, 2010). Dasher authoring system and
WebDasher. University of Iowa: CONDUIT and PICS.
Rézeau, J. (2001). Concordances in the classroom: The evidence of the data. In A.
Chambers & G. Davies (Eds.), Information and communications technology: A
European perspective (pp. 147–66). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Roget’s II: The New Thesaurus (1995). Boston, MA: Houghton Mifﬂin.
Rubin, J., Ediger, A., Cofﬁn, E., Van Handle, D., & Whiskeyman, A. (1990). Survey of
interactive videodiscs, CALICO Journal, 7(3), 31–56.
Rüschoff, B. (2002a). Authenticity and innovative learning scenarios in technology
enriched environments for language learning. In T. Abbott et al. (Eds.), Paradigms shift!
Implications of emerging technologies for teaching languages & cultures. Proceedings
of Digital Stream 4. Monterey: California State University Monterey Bay.
— (2002b). Languages. In H. D. Adelsberger, B. Collins & J. M. Pawlowski (Eds.),
Handbook on information technologies for education and training (pp. 523–43). Berlin:
Springer Verlag.
— (2009). Output-oriented language learning with digital media. In M. Thomas (Ed.),
Handbook of research on Web 2.0 and second language learning (pp. 42–59). Hershey,
PA: Information Science Reference.
Sanders, R. (Ed.) (1995). Thirty years of computer-assisted language instruction: Festschrift
for John R. Russell, CALICO Journal, 12(4).
Sanders, R., & Sanders, A. (1995). History of an AI spy game: Spion. In R. Sanders (Ed.),
Thirty years of Computer-Assisted Language Instruction: Festschrift for John R. Russell,
CALICO Journal, 12(4), 114–27
.
Schneider, E. W., & Bennion, J. L. (1984). Veni, vidi, vici, via videodisc: A simulator for
instructional courseware. In D. H. Wyatt (Ed.), Computer-assisted language instruction
(pp. 41–6). Oxford: Pergamon.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
38
Shield, L. (2003). MOO as a language learning tool. In U. Felix (Ed.), Language learning
online: Towards best practice (pp. 97–122). Lisse: Swets and Zeitlinger.
Shield, L., & Kukulska-Hulme, A. (Eds.) (2008). Mobile assisted language learning.
ReCALL, 20(3).
Stevens, V. (2003). How the TESOL CALL Interest Section began. Retrieved 15 November
2011, from www.vancestevens.com/papers/tesol/newsletter/callis_began.htm
Stockwell, G. (2007). Using mobile phones for vocabulary activities: Examining the effect
of the platform. Language Learning & Technology, 14(2), 95–110.
Svensson, P
. (2003). Virtual worlds as arenas for language learning. In U. Felix (Ed.),
Language learning online: Towards best practice (pp. 123–46). Lisse: Swets and
Zeitlinger.
Swain, M., & Deters, P
. (2007). ‘New’ mainstream SLA theory: Expanded and enriched,
Modern Language Journal, 91, 820–36.
Taylor, H. (1987). TUCO II. New York: Gessler Educational Software. Based on earlier
programs developed by H. Taylor and W. Haas at Ohio State University in the 1970s:
DECU (Deutscher Computerunterricht) and TUCO (Tutorial Computer).
Tebben, J. (1979). A course in medical and technical terminology. Minneapolis: Burgess
Publishing and Pearson.
Thomas, M. (Ed.) (2009). Handbook of research on Web 2.0 and second language
learning. Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
Tribble, C., & Jones, G. (1997). Concordancing in the classroom: A resource guide for
teachers. Houston, TX: Athelstan Publications.
Trippen, G., Legenhausen, L., & Wolff, D. (1988). Lernerstrategien und Lernprozesse bei
der Bearbeitung von CALL-Software. In W. Kühlwein & B. Spillner (Eds.), Sprache und
Individuum (pp. 83–6). Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Von der Emde, S., Schneider, J., & Kötter, M. (2001). Technically speaking: Transforming
language learning through virtual learning environments (MOOs). Modern Language
Journal, 85(2), 210–25.
Warschauer, M. (1996). Computer-assisted language learning: An introduction. In S. Fotos
(Ed.), Multimedia language teaching (pp. 3–20). Tokyo: Logos International.
Warschauer, M., & Healey, D. (1998). Computers and language learning: An overview.
Language Teaching, 31, 57–71.
Widdowson, H. (1979). Rules and procedures in discourse analysis. In T. Myers (Ed.), The
development of conversation and discourse. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Williams, A., Davies, G., & Williams, I. (1981). Apfeldeutsch. London: Wida Software.
3
Researching language learning in
the age of social media
Carla Meskill and Joy Quah
Summary
Along with proliferate uses of the internet for teaching and learning languages has
come a broadening and expansion of research approaches to these phenomena.
The questions we ask and the ways in which we conceptualize, situate, observe,
analyse and make sense of how language learners and instructors make use of social
media now draw on a number of techniques and traditions that, until recently, lay
outside of the ﬁeld of applied linguistics and second language acquisition (SLA). Such
varied perspectives and approaches serve to enrich our work as language educators in
general, and as computer-assisted language learning (CALL) researchers in particular.
It is in this spirit of expanding the horizons of possibilities and promises for research
in the ﬁeld that this chapter reviews approaches to examining language teaching and
learning with online social media. We review the extant research and divide relevant
studies into three categories: research that foregrounds (1) the online environment and
its affordances; (2) online social/affective dimensions; or (3) pedagogical processes.
Methodological approaches and techniques are highlighted and discussed with an
emphasis on the researchers’ foregrounding of the three foci.
Introduction
How language teachers and learners make use of new technologies has been the
focus of a great deal of research over the past decade. This is in large part due to
the advent and widespread availability of internet-based social media resources
and implementations. Further, language teaching in formal, institutional contexts is
swiftly moving to blended and online venues with educators seeing positive value in
both asynchronous and synchronous forms of target language communication with
their students. Online interaction with others – both native and non-native-speaking
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
40
classmates and peers – is also widely viewed as authentic language practice with the
greater freedoms social media venues afford for learners to observe and revise target
language reading, writing and speaking (Meskill & Anthony, 2006, 2010; Tudini, 2010).
As the range and diversity of online communication practices continue to evolve,
likewise the range and variety of foci and concerns for language education researchers
are robustly developing. Along with increased interest in online language teaching
and learning practices has come a rapid broadening of research epistemologies and
methodological techniques and approaches ﬁtted and retroﬁtted to new online language
and literacy practices. In short, CALL researchers have moved to employing forms of
inquiry that extend well beyond the traditions of SLA and applied linguistics drawing
on methods traditionally associated with, for example, sociology, education, critical
cultural studies, media literacy studies and communications.This expanding repertoire
of inquiry perspectives and tools bears synthesis and it is the goal of this chapter on
contemporary research practices in the digital age, particularly with social media, to
provide this.
Technologies associated with social media are often discussed within the broader
context of Web 2.0, a term which came into prominent use near the end of 2004.
O’Reilly (2005) is generally credited for systematically describing some of the deﬁning
characteristics of the emerging phenomenon, a phenomenon that has enabled new
forms of communication, participation, sharing and networking. Language educators
have been quick to appropriateWeb 2.0 technologies to facilitate participatory practices
in language learning, guiding learners to individually or collaboratively generate content
which can be posted, rapidly updated and continually revised. These potential means
of collaboration provide opportunities to integrate language skills, while supporting the
development of identity and critical literacy through ways that mirror authentic uses
of social media in the general population (Warschauer, 2009). Research that examines
such instructional activity of necessity calls for new ways of conceptualizing and in
turn investigating how languages are being taught and learned with and within social
media contexts.
Traditions
The formal study of language learning began as research strictly rooted in
psychology. Research problems, questions, methods and interpretations were
thus shaped by the belief that acquiring language is a matter of the architecture
and functions of the individual human mind (Davis, 1995; Gass & Schacter, 1989).
From this perspective, scientiﬁc experiments comprised the default methodological
technique with mental modelling the goal of controlled experimentation. In addition
to controlled laboratory-like approaches that involved such techniques as language
testing and target language elicitation techniques, questions concerning how
languages are learned were tackled via close study of language classes. Groups
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 41
of learners were used as control and experimental subjects with methods and
materials as interventions, metrics of learner characteristics as correlates and
questions about minds in interaction with methods and materials posed. Measures
of learner and teacher traits along with the inﬂuences of interventions were often
the focus. It is from this positivist tradition that many concepts about language
education widely held today had their genesis, and the psychological perspective
continues to be employed in language and literacy studies currently. However, while
the psychological perspective on second language learning research continues to
hold sway, the explosive advent of online social media in both formal and informal
language teaching and learning has, of necessity, led to new research perspectives
and approaches. Online social media, after all, involve the messy, unpredictable use
of human language for motivated, authentic purposes, a phenomenon that does
not lend itself to laboratory controls. Social media involve evolving forms of human
interaction, forms of interaction that require new approaches to understanding
language learning and teaching along with research perspectives, approaches and
techniques that serve in building such understanding.
Precedent for a similar extension of research perspectives was set in the early
1970s with the educational study of foreign and second language classrooms, a
shift that broadened concepts of language learning to include the social/contextual
processes of teaching and learning. The dynamics of teacher and student interactions
in live, intact language classrooms became focal (see, for example, Chaudron, 1988).
Indeed, one of the earliest studies on internet-based language learning activity through
social interaction was shaped by these parallel concerns and, thereby, illustrates
the potentially parallel perspectives and methods of classroom-based research in
approaching questions about online language learning (Sauvignon & Roithmeier, 2004).
As is demonstrated in this and many subsequent studies of social media for language
education, research techniques such as observation and analysis of class and group
activities using the written and aurally recorded utterances of teachers and students
make good sense for inquiries that examine various perspectives and dimensions of
online social/instructional interaction. Such approaches help to account for the complex
social interactions that occur such as teacher talk, learner production, group interactions,
question types, misunderstandings, clariﬁcation and the like as these unfold online.
Moreover, sociolinguistic and ethnographic approaches that examine communication
in action, including examination of how and why humans acquire new languages, have
themselves evolved new techniques and approaches in the last decades (Nunan &
Bailey, 2007). For example, classroom-based language research that has examined
language teacher talk, learner–learner interactions, oral and written feedback types,
learner products, etc. has brought new understandings and insights to both theory
and practice in language education while establishing a solid base of empirical work
on which those within the ﬁeld can build. It is from these roots that current research
practices in language education through social media are likewise developing. After
all, both online social media practices and language classroom interactions share the
same goals and are pre-eminently social in nature.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
42
In the context of research, online interactions with others closely parallel interactions
in F2F classrooms. It is therefore not surprising to ﬁnd a number of studies whose
theoretical frames, research questions, methods and analyses emulate to some
degree second and foreign language classroom research. Combined methodological
techniques of, for example, ethnography in combination with quantiﬁcation used as a
supporting tool to determine and track patterns in participant interaction are starting to
be employed. On the other hand, practitioner reports are at the same time proliferating.
Warschauer and Grimes (2007) have observed that although ‘a number of educators
are beginning to report on their experiences (in L2 education), publications to date
mostly consist of lists of suggestions or summaries of experiences by practitioners’
(p.12). Because social media tools are relatively new, language educators clearly need
time to appropriate their use to effectively complement pedagogical practices (Meskill,
Anthony, Hilliker, Tseng & You, 2006). As such, many reports of social media uses to
date involve teacher-researchers attempting to integrate these tools into classroom
pedagogy. This kind of teacher research has thereby emerged as a distinct and
signiﬁcant trend of inquiry among language practitioners (e.g., Von Der Ende et al.,
2001).
Lankshear and Knobel (2005) point out that practitioner research and academic
research both share systematic and methodical approaches to investigation because
they are ‘derived more or less directly from academic discipline areas’ (p. 20).The main
distinction between the two is perspective and guidance via theory. The emphases
of practitioner research are issues of practice and therefore, the authors go on to
observe that ‘professional-practitioner researchers will spend less time dabbling with
the niceties of theory and the theoretical and conceptual disputes in the discipline area
and more time making a wise selection of systematic methods and tools for addressing
the practical issue’ (p. 20). However, they stressed that practitioner researchers are not
exempt from maintaining ‘appropriate standards for “being systematic” ’ (p. 20).
Because the purpose of teacher research – to illuminate opportunities and means
for local instructional change – are distinct, these are not included in the following
discussion of trends in methodological approaches and techniques in researching
social media in language education.
Environments, socio/aﬀective
dimensions and pedagogical processes
In the following sections we provide a synthesis of key techniques in the research
of language learning in online social networks in the context of three research foci
we see dominating the current literature: the online environment, the socio/affective
dimension and pedagogical concerns. The aim behind this categorization is to make
clear distinctions between the major purposes and perspectives that drive research
in the ﬁeld while outlining the methodological techniques employed by researchers
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 43
within each of these categories. The rationale for doing so lies in the vast diversity
of research problems, purposes and approaches that characterizes the current state
of research and a concurrent need we see to sort through and name these diverse
positions so as to further discussion and future directions.
The ﬁrst category comprises research studies that foreground as their focus the
design, tools and resources of a given online social media environment. In short, studies
that fall into this category focus primarily on the online environment and its affordances.
Such studies tend to view the environment as impacting communicative exchanges
in ways that are unique and/or of direct relevance to language and culture learning.
Therefore, research questions, data interpretations, implications and conclusions
foreground the online environment and its characteristics. The second category of
research concentrates on the socio/affective dimensions of online social media as
these relate to language education. When socio/affective aspects are foregrounded,
learners’ reactions and reﬂections are elicited via a range of methodological techniques
and form the core of such studies’ chief observations. Finally, our third category,
pedagogical concerns, comprises research that focuses on teaching practices with
social media technologies. Included in this category are studies that centre on the
pedagogical tasks, strategies and discourse of language educators as they design and
orchestrate learning in online venues.
Criteria for including studies rest squarely with the social aspect of online social
media. Included are empirical research studies that state clearly framed research
questions, employ suitable approaches for gathering, analysing and interpreting
data, and that contribute to understanding theory and practice of language learning.
We discuss these three groups of studies in terms of the research approaches and
techniques each applied. We then attempt a synthesis of the current state of research
in language learning technologies as reﬂected in the body of work selected and, in turn,
future directions of the same.
Research focus: The online environment
Speciﬁc research focus on online environments, be they course management systems
(CMSs), wikis, blogs, friendship applications, virtual worlds, etc., and what their
design and resources afford for language learning and teaching reﬂects the earliest
of research concerns in the history of CALL, what the machine does (Meskill, 2005).
It is inquiry that is concerned speciﬁcally with the visual, physical and functional
characteristics of what appears and occurs on the computer screen as it relates to
language learning. What distinguishes current online social spaces from what might
be considered traditional CALL spaces is the presence of other people and, therefore,
opportunities to communicate with them for authentic purposes. In this respect, social
spaces afford any number of interactive possibilities that are inherently social and,
therefore, complex. Many researchers have thus turned to more socially motivated
theoretical perspectives and concomitant methodological techniques and approaches
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
44
that aim to narrate these human interactions as they unfold in online social spaces
with emphasis on the speciﬁc affordances that in some way inﬂuence online language
learning activity.
The foregrounding of the online spaces and their resources shapes the development
of the research questions, approaches to and techniques of data collection, and the
interpretations and implications that emerge for such studies.Thorne’s (2003) case study
ofthreeforeignlanguagelearnersastheyemployedonlineinteractionalspacestopractise
the target language with native speakers is an example of such foregrounding. As an
outgrowth of both the theoretical positioning developed for the study and the resulting
questions and data interpretations, the research outcomes highlight the semiotic realm
in which learners interacted as integral to online activity.The study concludes that uses
and outcomes of online tools and resources for language education are contingent
upon individuals as social actors in dynamic and complex activity, an observation similar
to that of Flewitt and Lamy (2011) in their study of French-English learner exchanges.
Both inquiries employed analyses of transcripts of learners’ online interactions with
the goal of characterizing how language learners respond to opportunities afforded
by social media environments. Both studies’ analyses were accomplished through
coding systems that coordinated verbal and non-verbal interactions in conjunction
with environmental affordances relevant to learners’ interactions, a research technique
afforded by video recordings of students as they interacted online.
In an examination of learners employing corrective feedback with one another
online, Sauro and Smith (2010) analysed chatscripts (transcripts of synchronous
student–student conversations) to determine whether a key affordance of online
communication – control over time for planning, review and editing – impacted
learners’ monitoring of target language production. The researchers examined and
coded the study’s chatscripts for syntactic complexity, productive use of grammatical
gender and lexical diversity as a means of determining learners’ production planning
and monitoring behaviours. Using similar methodological techniques, Smith (2005)
tracked learner uptake of new lexical items during synchronous chats and likewise
concluded that time and the visual representation of the language in use contributed
positively to acquisition. Neither study employed additional methodological techniques
to conﬁrm these observations.
In another study that examines what the authors term ‘chat logs’, Zheng, Young
and Wagner (2009) undertook four case studies of English learners interacting in
game-based virtual worlds. Employing an environmental perspective, the researchers
used a range of methodological techniques and data sources to pursue understanding
of online language learner interactions while students gamed online: participant
observation, interviews and the analysis of QA-related communication artefacts. The
research also contrasts learners’ F2F and online avatar interactions with the aim of
detecting contextual inﬂuences. The researchers found emerging patterns of online
interactions around the accomplishment of the gaming tasks afforded by the online
environment in which students interacted. These they have labelled ‘negotiations for
action’, or language used to coordinate activity online, a construct that is potentially
valuable as more language learning research is carried out in gaming environments.
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 45
Jepson’s (2005) mixed-method study compared patterns of repair moves in
synchronous text chatrooms and voice chatrooms on the internet. The study draws
its theoretical base from the role of social interaction in language acquisition, with
a speciﬁc focus on repair moves related to negotiation of meaning and negative
feedback. Data on repair moves were collected through transcripts of 5-minute,
synchronous text and voice chatroom sessions made by participants. Quantitative
statistical analysis revealed that a higher number of repair moves were made in
voice chats compared to text chats. Qualitative discourse analysis and interaction
analysis indicate that repair work in voice chats was often pronunciation-related. The
research highlighted that although text chat is the more widely used, voice chat
offers an environment which is more conducive for authentic meaning making that
resembles F2F interaction. The conclusion was supported by evidence from voice
chats which yielded a comparatively higher number of repair moves speciﬁcally
related to negotiation of meaning.
Beyond the use of coded transcripts of online learner interactions, additional
methodological techniques have been employed in exploring characteristics of the
online environment along with the tools and resources learners use and to what
effect. Lam and Rosario-Ramos (2009), for example, ﬁrst distributed a questionnaire
to hundreds of bilingual, bi-literate social media devotees. From these responses
they invited a group of approximately 30 people to participate in focus groups. The
researchers elicited participants’ stories, observations and reﬂections concerning their
multilingual, multicultural online practices and employed transcripts of these focus
groups in their analysis of bilinguals’ multi-literate practices in online social media
sites. They focused particularly on the use of digital media and representations that
participants employed as part of the online interactions. From these data and their
attendant research questions, the authors conclude that digital media are important
tools for young people to both maintain their mother tongue and expand uses of the
host language and culture.
In an effort to characterize language learner collaborations when developing wiki
entries, Kost (2011) employed systematic tracking of the planning, composing and
revising strategies of native English speakers learning German as a second language.
Using a taxonomy of revision types, patterns of students’ collaborative writing strategies
in an environment that affords linking, cross-referencing and consensus building were
identiﬁed. Results suggest that wiki-hosted collaborative writing processes reﬂect
the non-linear nature of both collaborative writing and content production in a wiki
environment. Using a similar approach, Kuteeva (2011) also tracked learners’ revision
patterns in a wiki environment. In this study with learners of English for speciﬁc
purposes, the focus was on determining if and how learners’ awareness of audience –
the broad readership of the internet – inﬂuenced their composing processes. Along with
tracking writing revisions, learners’ questionnaire responses revealed that composing
in the wiki led learners to consider their readership. They consequently used a greater
variety of interactional resources including different kinds of engagement markers
(personal pronouns, questions and commands), self-mentions, attitude markers,
hedges, boosters and so forth.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
46
Integrating layers of metadata into research involving EFL learners collaborating
on wiki entries, Lund (2008) analysed video records of F2F learner collaborations,
digital records of learner content development, along with open-ended questions for
learners to address regarding their collaboration and composing processes. Based on
the premise that we come to knowledge by taking part in activities where individuals
relate to a greater collective that evolves over time and where language and material
artefacts function as structural resources, the researcher probed the ways that oral
discourse supports written discourse given the tools, resources and purposes of wiki
content building. The study illustrates research techniques by which learners’ voices
and identities can be methodologically integrated into proﬁles of online language
learner collaborations.
Section summary: Environment
While each of these studies foregrounds the affordances of online social media
environments, each develops and approaches its dataset (transcriptions of online and
ofﬂine instructional interactions, focus groups and interviews) differently according to
its theoretical positioning, purpose and system of data coding. In order to identify how
venue affordances steer and inﬂuence online discourse, the focus of coding becomes
learner uses and interactions with and through such affordances (Flewitt & Lamy, 2011;
Thorne, 2003), learner syntactic and lexical uptake (Sauro & Smith, 2010; Smith, 2005),
different language repair strategies by venue (Jepson, 2005), language use speciﬁc to
online tasks (Zheng et al., 2009), bilingual/bicultural identity constructions with digital
media (Lam & Rosario-Ramos, 2009), the tracking of collaborative constructions (Kost,
2011), the development of collective group practices over time (Lund, 2008) and the
speciﬁc features of the online venue that shape these.
By tracking language learner uses and perceptions of online social media with an eye
on the characteristics of the venue, researchers are documenting particular practices in
evolving discourse genres attendant to these spaces. In the following section where the
focus of research shifts to socio-affective outcomes of online interactions, we see similar
systems of data collection and analytic techniques applied through a different lens.
Research focus: Socio/aﬀective dimensions
The social turn in second language studies has been well documented (Block, 2003).To
some extent one could point to the advent of online social media as playing a catalytic
role in this shift from focusing on the individual learning mind to focusing on minds
learning in social contexts. Many among the most recent generations of language
learners after all are native to these online social spaces and daily participate in their
evolution (Turkle, 2011).
One of the earliest indicators of a social turn in CALL research was Warschauer’s
(1999) study of online, socially motivated language learning spaces (see Warschauer,
2000 for an article-length account). In this seminal two-year ethnography of culturally
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 47
diverse learners interacting online to develop their language and literacy, a combined
data collection approach and analysis including observations, interviews and transcripts
of learner interactions resulted in narrative case studies. Key moments are highlighted
and explicated by the researcher with socio/affective dimensions as the focal concern.
In-depth analysis of cases reveals the importance of digital literacies as a form of
social/affective empowerment, with online spaces providing opportunities for target
language voice and language development.
In a more recent study of language learners interacting in social media sites using the
target language, Clark and Gruba (2010) employed an auto-ethnographic (diary studies)
research technique to track the practices and uses of English by Japanese students in
LiveMocha. From their thematic analysis of longitudinal transcript and student diary data,
the researchers observed learners gaining conﬁdence in the target language thereby
securing their places as members of an online community; members who alternatively
tookontherolesoflanguagelearnersandlanguageteachers.Usingsimilarmethodological
techniques, Harrison and Thomas (2009) observed that language learners who would
otherwise be reticent to seek out conversation opportunities with native speakers were
comfortable and proﬁcient in doing so in this same online social media site.
In a study of classroom community-building employing blogs, learners of Italian
contributed posts to a class blog about Italian food (Miceli, Murray & Kennedy, 2010).
Use of the shared space of a class blog, in lieu of individual student blogs, was a
strategy to promote authentic interaction as a community. Data sources included
transcripts of blog entries and end-of-semester questionnaires administered to
determine if the blogging activity positively or negatively inﬂuenced participants’ sense
of belonging to the class-group. Blog transcripts were coded using Rovai’s (2001)
scheme of ‘connected voice’, indicating a higher sense of belonging, and ‘independent
voice’, indicating a lower sense of belonging. Analyses suggested that the blogging
activity successfully promoted learner interaction and engendered a strong sense of
community among the students.
Employing a corpus of learner interactions with native speakers of the target
language accompanied by participant interviews, Pasﬁeld-Neoﬁtou (2011) probed
evolving L2 and target culture identity work on the part of language learners. Of
particular importance in this study was the experience of foreignness as students
negotiated new L2 identities in virtual worlds.The researcher employed online and F2F
interviews, transcripts of participation in blogs, wikis, and other social media venues
and focus group data collection techniques. The researcher undertook analyses using
a social realism framework. Pasﬁeld-Neoﬁtu observed that virtual immersion has
both beneﬁts (motivation to use L2 authentically, access to authentic materials) and
constraints (feeling of foreignness that results in reluctance to use the L2).
Arnold (2007) examined language learners’ communication apprehension
online. The investigation was situated within socio-affective areas of attitudes
and motivation in language learning. Three communicative formats – face-to-face,
synchronous and asynchronous – were included to compare affective dimensions
of the environments. Students interacted through six group discussions where they
discussed open-ended personal topics in stable groups of three to four learners.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
48
The dataset consisted of pre- and post-questionnaire responses to items probing
levels of nervousness and self-conﬁdence while engaging in discussions along with
an adaptation of Horwitz et al.’s (1986) Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale
(FLCAS).The post-questionnaire included an open-ended section which gave students
opportunities to provide self-reports on their experiences of oral communication
in the foreign language. Analyses of these data indicate no statistically signiﬁcant
differences between the asynchronous and the synchronous communication
groups in terms of communication apprehension reduction. In fact, both forums for
discussions seemed to provide positive communication experiences for students.
However, they do suggest that practice in synchronous communication might be
more beneﬁcial for increasing students’ conﬁdence levels due to similarities with
F2F communication.
Finally, a study of language learning utilizing Second Life, a popular 3D simulated
world, Henderson, Huang, Grant and Henderson (2009) traced Chinese learners’
degree of self-efﬁcacy as they actively used the target language to socialize in this
virtual environment. The researchers collected extensive pre- and post-questionnaire
data regarding learners’ beliefs about their abilities to use Mandarin effectively when
communicating with others. Mixed results lead to a call for more research on ‘possible
connections between virtual worlds and perceived relevance of enactive mastery
experiences’ (Henderson et al., 2009, p. 471).
Section summary: Socio/aﬀective dimensions
In order to discover and describe socio/affective trends and outcomes for language
education with social media, a number of data strategies are being employed. Coded
observations of both online and F2F learner interactions, learner self-reporting,
interviews and questionnaires are being used to probe socio/affective dimensions of
social media in terms of empowerment (Clark & Gruba, 2010; Harrison & Thomas,
2009; Warschauer, 1999), community building (Miceli, Murray & Kennedy, 2010), L2
user identity (Pasﬁeld-Neoﬁtou, 2011) and learner conﬁdence (Arnold, 2007; Henderson
et al., 2009). As uses of and research on social media for language education expand,
so too will interest in affective dimensions of learning languages in social media
environments.
Research focus: Pedagogical processes
How language educators can best capitalize on social media environments for
extended activities as well as blended and fully online instructional practices are
becoming central, critical concerns for language educator professional development
across the novice-seasoned instructor spectrum. And, as more language education
develops for online venues, research that focuses on pedagogical strategies, task
design and teacher practices becomes particularly important (Meskill & Anthony,
2010). The practical and concomitant conceptual changes that come with moving
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 49
some or all language instruction online are, after all, substantial (Meskill & Sadykova,
2011).
In a 2005 study of teacher-guided telecollaboration between learners of English
and learners of Korean, Chung, Graves, Wesche and Barfurth examined transcripts
of correspondence between the two groups. What marks this study as distinct from
those with a focus on socio/affective outcomes is the researchers’ foregrounding of
the importance of task design, curricular coherence and teacher orchestration and
guidance throughout these exchanges. With these instructional dimensions ﬁrmly in
place, language learners in both groups demonstrated their ability to both complete
tasks using the target language while coaching one another in the focal content and
language in use. Similarly Müller-Hartmann’s (2000) analysis of transcripts of online
language learner interactions also foregrounds the importance of instructional tasks
and task structures for successful learner exchanges online. In Dekinet’s (2008) study
focusing on instructional strategies, conversation analysis was used to determine
whether and how peer-tutoring techniques would be responded to by learners of
ESL. Native-speaker undergraduates were trained in online peer language assistance
strategies that they employed with international students. Post-tutoring surveys
indicate that NNS participants’ language awareness was raised in response to trained
tutor feedback on their target language output. Similarly, Wang (2009) examined
the pedagogical context and procedures involved in preparing language learners to
provide one another feedback on their blog posts. Learners were carefully instructed
in effective ways to respond to one another. Transcripts of their blog interactions were
subsequently analysed to determine if and how the feedback training was used and, if
so, whether and how it was responded to.
Using F2F classroom recordings, transcripts of online interactions, and reﬂections of
participating teachers, Lund (2006) conducted three case studies of EFL professionals’
teaching practices in blended environments. The researcher tracked developing
teaching practices that crossed and merged between online and F2F instructional
contexts over the course of 18 months. Data reveal changes in what language got
taught as well as the ways the target language was consequently used. Additionally,
the research highlighted the speciﬁc pedagogical practices that must constantly
accommodate new agencies and artefacts between and within instructional venues.
Similarly, in a longitudinal classroom-based study Dooly (2011) examined the interplay
of online telecollaborative discourse practices and those of the daily F2F classroom.
From the emerging blended practices under observation, Dooly identiﬁed important
consonances and dissonances between teacher plans and actual language learning,
a critical consideration in the design, implementation and evaluation of pedagogical
practices that integrate social media. Dooly employed discursive analysis of F2F and
online interactions using close, line-by-line description and diachronic interpretation of
the interactions in context.
Examining the impact of the online instructional language teaching strategy of
highlighting text or ‘textually enhanced feedback’, Sachs and Suh (2007) found that
this instructional strategy contributes to language learners’ awareness of gaps in
their target language development via student self-reports in conjunction with pre/
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
50
post-online conversation assessments. In this inquiry, verbal protocols were used to
probe learner awareness of text enhancements during authentic online communication
and their inﬂuence on learning.
In a series of studies that similarly focused on instructional conversation strategies
in online venues, Meskill and Anthony (2005, 2007
, 2008) found that learners of
Russian responded both in terms of lexical and syntactic uptake and increased
language awareness in response to a set of verbal strategies used by their instructors
as they responded to teachable moments in blended and fully online courses. Each
inquiry employed combined methodological techniques of archival transcript coding,
pre- and post-student questionnaires and student interviews in determining learner
responses to instructor-orchestrated online conversations. Iterative data analyses
included tracking learner uptake throughout semester-long transcripts and interview
protocols whereby learners commented directly on their contributions in course
transcripts. Linkages between online discourse and evidence of language learning
could thereby be drawn.
In a study of tandem learning, whereby learners with different mother tongues
interact online to teach one another, Hauck and Youngs (2008) examined task
design and participant interaction in asynchronous and synchronous modes. The
collaborative task required learners to compare their immediate and wider physical
environments.Multipledatasourcesincludedpre-andpost-treatmentquestionnaires,
recordings of online interactions between tutor and participants, student products
in blogs, transcripts of discussions among learner and tutor participants and
semi-structured interviews. The post-questionnaire elicited learners’ perceptions
of the two different learning environments, tasks, connectivity and interactivity.
The multimodal affordances, especially the graphics tools, enabled learners to
construct sophisticated visual representations of their physical surroundings, which
was a central requirement in the task. In spite of these observations concerning
online environments, the authors’ main conclusion was that ‘unless there are
well-constructed tasks, simply participating in a synchronous oral/aural exchange
does not necessarily lead to effective and motivated language and intercultural
learning’ (p. 102).
Using transcripts of intermediate EFL learners as they undertook collaborative
tasks in Second Life, Peterson (2010) examined learners’ participation structures by
task and within task. Types of pedagogical tasks determined the amount and quality
of learner interactions and also elicited synchronous participation strategies speciﬁc
to tasks in virtual worlds, a promising direction for inquiry as virtual worlds become
commonplace venues for language instruction.
Section summary: Pedagogical processes
The preceding studies foreground the pedagogical processes involved in the utilization
of social media for language education. Each employs similar methodological strategies
for doing so with coding by instructional task (Hauck & Youngs, 2008; Peterson, 2010)
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 51
and by instructor pedagogical behaviours predominating (e.g., Chung et al., 2005; Dooly,
2011; Lund, 2006; Meskill & Anthony, 2005, 2007
, 2008). Additional research strategies
of examining the outcomes of explicitly training students to provide peer feedback via
analysis of peer interaction transcripts are represented in Dekhinet (2008) and Sachs
and Suh (2007). While the ways that language educators are integrating social media
tools and practices continue to be reported as teacher research (see earlier discussion),
and as language educators gain expertise and conﬁdence in integrating social media
into their instruction, additional research questions and approaches will consequently
arise and be taken up through extended inquiry. For the moment, the methodological
strategies of tracking instructional practices, tracking instructor language and its impact
and tracking student perceptions of instructional events are represented.
Conclusion, future directions
In their book, Internet Inquiry: Conversations about Method, Markham and Baym
(2008) ask
Can we still draw on theories that were developed in an earlier epoch to frame
our inquiry and explain our ﬁndings? How do we apply procedural models to a
study when these models do not seem to ﬁt anymore? How can we move beyond
documenting the new to saying things of lasting value about phenomena that
change so rapidly? (p. xiii)
At this point in the historical and conceptual evolution of online social media in language
education, the bulk of research data is comprised of transcripts of online interactions
with three foregrounded foci emerging: focus on the environment, focus on socio/
affective outcomes and focus on pedagogy.The methodological techniques for probing
these aspects of social media for language education are many, with the predominant
dataset consisting of the convenient transcript of online interactions between and
among learners, others and their instructors.
We have identiﬁed several notably more sophisticated methods of capturing
data to help describe student interactions in social media spaces including focus
groups, interviews, iterations of learner revisions, video records of face-to-face
learner collaborations, digital records of learner content development, open-ended
questionnaires,learnerself-reports,questionnairesandtranscriptsofcollaborativework.
The third group of studies we reviewed highlights methodological strategies of tracking
student perceptions of instructional events, tracking of instructional practices, instructor
language and its impact. The datasets include transcripts of online language learner
interactions, classroom video recordings, written teacher reﬂections, questionnaires,
interviews, student self-reports, verbal protocols and samples of student products and
samples of written student feedback. The studies and their methodologies point to
an increasingly greater sophistication in using various tools to capture and describe
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
52
student interactions in online environments, while also focusing on various pedagogies
and online affordances that support student language acquisition.
Research questions fashioned to address online language teaching and learning,
along with the theories and methods that animate these, have, like the phenomena
themselves, expanded and diversiﬁed. And, as with second language acquisition
studies more generally, this is in large part due to the limitations of positivist
psychology-based inquiry. Strictly controlled comparison of, for example, teaching
methods or materials becomes problematic both in terms of implementation and
external validity. Likewise, the situation-dependent and anarchic nature of language
learner interactions with others in social media venues does not lend itself to controlled
experimentation. Instead, as we have seen, language education researchers have
been actively exploring utilization of more robust research methods beyond restrictive
psychology-based approaches.
New uses of new technologies inspire new inquiry. Learning languages in
cyberspace is no exception. The challenge is to conceptualize, problematize and
research the complex relationships that are organically arising between educators
and students and the technologies they use in these spaces. Like internet practices
generally, research design is always evolving. Examining complex phenomena such
as language in these online venues can thereby never be static or prescriptive. Nor
are research methods recipes for success. They are, rather, means, tools of argument
and ways to narrate and illuminate what goes on in the world from well-established
perspectives. We have surveyed the current range of research approaches and
techniques employed for language education and social media as they fall into one
of the prevailing three perspectives: the environment, socio/affective dimensions
and pedagogy. Future directions for such work will be accommodating ever-evolving
online discourse communities as well as exemplary online teaching practices as these
develop. Consideration of these three areas of emphasis and their respective research
techniques may assist researchers in being clear and consistently explicit about the
purposes and perspectives of their studies.
References
Arnold, N. (2007). Reducing foreign language communication apprehension with
computer-mediated communication: A preliminary study. System, 35(4), 469–86.
Block, D. (2003). The social turn in second language acquisition. Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Chaudron, C. (1988). Second language classrooms: Research on teaching and learning.
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Chung, Y., Graves, B., Wesche, M., & Barfurth, M. (2005). Computer-mediated
communication in Korean-English chat rooms: Tandem learning in an international
language program. The Canadian Modern Language Review, 62, 49–86.
Clark, C., & Gruba, P
. (2010). The use of social media sites for foreign language learning:
An autoethnographic study of Livemocha. In C. H. Steel, M. J. Keppell, P
. Gerbic &
S. Housego (Eds.), Curriculum, technology & transformation for an unknown future.
RESEARCHING LANGUAGE LEARNING 53
Proceedings ascilite Sydney. Retrieved from http://ascilite.org.au/conferences/
sydney10/procs/Cclark-full.pdf
Davis, K. (1995). Qualitative theory and methods in applied linguistics research. TESOL
Quarterly, 29(3), 427–53.
Dekhinet, R. (2008). Online enhanced corrective feedback for ESL learners in higher
education. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(5), 409–25.
Dooly, M. (2011). Divergent perceptions of telecollaborative language learning tasks: Task-
as-workplan vs. task-as-process. Language Learning & Technology, 15(2), 69–91.
Flewitt, R., & Lamy, M. (2011). Describing online conversations: Insights from a
multimodal approach. In C. Devotte, M. Lamy & R. Kern (Eds.), Décrire la conversation
en ligne: Le face à face distanciel (pp. 71–93). Lyon: Ens Éditions.
Gass, S., & Schacter, J. (1989). Linguistic perspectives on second language acquisition.
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Harrison, R., & Thomas, M. (2009). Identity in online communities: Social media sites and
language learning. International Journal of Emerging Technologies and Society, 7(2),
109–24.
Hauck, M., & Youngs, B. L. (2008). Telecollaboration in multimodal environments: The
impact on task design and learner interaction. Computer Assisted Language Learning,
21(2), 87–124.
Henderson, M., Huang, H., Grant, S., & Henderson, L. (2009). Language acquisition
in Second Life: Improving self-efﬁcacy beliefs. In Same places, different spaces.
Proceedings ascilite Auckland 2009. Retrieved from www.ascilite.org.au/conferences/
auckland09/procs/henderson.pdf
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom anxiety.
Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–32.
Jepson, K. (2005). Conversations and negotiated interaction in text and voice chatrooms.
Language Learning & Technology, 9(3), 79–98.
Kost, C. (2011). Investigating writing strategies and revision behavior in collaborative wiki
projects. CALICO Journal, 28(3), 606–20.
Kuteeva, M. (2011). Wikis and academic writing: Changing the writer–reader relationship.
English for Speciﬁc Purposes, 30(1), 44–57
.
Lam, E., & Rosario-Ramos, E. (2009). Multilingual literacies in transnational digitally
mediated contexts: An exploratory study of immigrant teens in the United States.
Language and Education, 23(2), 171–90.
Lankshear, C., & Knobel, M. (2004). A handbook for teacher research: From design to
implementation. Maidenhead, UK: Open University Press.
Lund, A. (2006). The multiple contexts of online language teaching. Language Teaching
Research, 10(2), 181–204.
— (2008). Wikis: A collective approach to language production. ReCALL, 20(1), 35–54.
Markham, A., & Baym, N. (2008). Internet inquiry: Conversations about method. New
York: Sage.
Meskill, C. (2005). Metaphors that shape and guide CALL research. In J. Egbert &
G. Petrie (Eds.), CALL research perspectives (pp. 25–40). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.
Meskill, C., & Anthony, N. (2005). Foreign language learning with CMC: Forms of online
instructional discourse in a hybrid Russian class. System, 33(1), 89–105.
— (2007). Form-focused communicative practice via computer mediated communication:
What language learners say. CALICO Journal, 25(1), 69–90.
— (2008). Computer mediated communication: Tools for instructing Russian heritage
language learners. Heritage Language Journal, 6(1), 1–22.
— (2010). Teaching languages online. Bristol, UK: Multilingual Matters.
Meskill, C., & Sadykova, G. (2011). Introducing EFL faculty to online instructional
conversations. ReCALL Journal, 23(3), 200–17
.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
54
Meskill, C., Anthony, N., Hilliker, S., Tseng, C., & You, J. (2006). Computer Assisted
Language Learning: A survey of K-12 ESOL English to speakers of other languages
teacher uses and preferences. TESOL Quarterly, 40(2), 439–51.
Miceli, T., Murray, S. V., & Kennedy, C. (2010). Using an L2 blog to enhance learners’
participation and sense of community. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 23(4),
321–41.
Müller-Hartmann, A. (2000). The role of tasks in promoting intercultural learning in
electronic learning networks. Language Learning & Technology, 4(2), 129–47
.
Nunan, D., & Bailey, K. (2007). Exploring second language classroom research. Boston:
Heinle.
O’Reilly, T. (2005). What is Web 2.0. Retrieved January 23, 2012, from http://oreilly.com/
web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html
Pasﬁeld-Neoﬁtou, S. (2011). Second language learners’ experiences of virtual community
and foreignness. Language Learning & Technology, 15(2), 92–108.
Peterson, M. (2010). Learner participation patterns and strategy use in Second Life: An
exploratory case study. ReCALL Journal, 22(3), 273–92.
Rovai, A. (2001). Building classroom community at a distance: A case study. Educational
Technology, Research and Development, 49(4), 33–48.
Sachs, R., & Suh, B. (2007). Textually enhanced recasts, learner awareness, and L2
outcomes in synchronous computer-mediated interaction. In A. Mackey (Ed.),
Conversational interaction in second language acquisition (pp. 196–227).
Sauro, S., & Smith, B. (2010). Investigating L2 performance in text chat. Applied
Linguistics, 31(4), 554–77
.
Savignon, S., & Roithmeier, W. (2004). Computer-mediated communication: Texts and
strategies. CALICO Journal, 21(2), 265–90.
Smith, B. (2005). The relationship between negotiated interaction, learner uptake, and
lexical acquisition in task-based computer-mediated communication. TESOL Quarterly,
39(1), 33–58.
Thorne, S. (2003). Artifacts and cultures-of-use in intercultural communication. Language
Learning & Technology, 7(2), 38–67
.
Tudini, V. (2010). Online second language acquisition. New York: Continuum.
Turkle, S. (2011). Alone together: Why we expect more from technology and less from
each other. New York: Basic Books.
Von der Emde, S., Schneider, J., & Kötter, M. (2001). Technically speaking: Transforming
language learning through virtual learning environments (MOOs). The Modern
Language Journal, 85(2), 210–25.
Wang, H. (2009). Weblog-mediated peer editing and some pedagogical recommendations:
A case study. JALT CALL Journal, 5(2), 29–44.
Warschauer, M. (1999). Electronic literacies: Language, culture, and power in online
education. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
— (2000). On-line learning in second language classrooms: An ethnographic study. In
M. Warschauer & R. Kern (Eds.), Network-based language teaching: Concepts and
practice (pp. 41–58). New York: Cambridge University Press.
— (2009). ‘Foreword’. In M. Thomas (Ed.), Handbook of research on Web 2.0 and second
language learning. Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2007). Audience, authorship, and artifact: The emergent
semiotics of Web 2.0. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 27, 1–23.
Zheng, D., Young, M., & Wagner, M. (2009). Negotiation for action: English language
learning in gamebased virtual worlds. Modern Language Journal, 93, 489–511.
4
Second language teacher
education for CALL:
An alignment of practice and
theory
Gary Motteram, Diane Slaouti
and Zeynep Onat-Stelma
Summary
This chapter presents a case for a greater alignment of teacher education for
computer-assisted language learning (CALL) to sociocultural theory. It suggests
that this is an appropriate alignment because the ﬁeld of second language teacher
education (SLTE) has increasingly taken this perspective and there is a good argument
for moving teacher education for CALL more towards an educational perspective and
away from its home roots of second language acquisition (SLA). This chapter presents
the development of the growing ﬁeld of teacher education for CALL, a brief overview
of sociocultural theory and then shows how this can be applied via three illustrative
vignettes arising from a recent project with Cambridge University Press. The 2-year
project explored the practices of a large group of adult language teachers around the
world utilizing technology and was captured in 17 case studies.
Introduction
Teacher education for CALL has been part of the teacher education landscape for
at least twenty years, but has only started to have a separate identity as a subject
for serious study and scholarship in the last ten. Over this period it has grown and
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
56
developed from its roots in applied linguistics, but as this chapter will argue, it is time
to accelerate this growth and ally CALL more closely with the educational mainstream
and the developing trends in the ﬁelds of SLTE. These trends encompass what
Johnson (1996) and others have termed the ‘sociocultural turn’ and we will argue and
demonstrate through vignettes of teachers using technology why we believe that this
is an appropriate development.
There is an ongoing debate in research into language learning which sees researchers
in the cognitive tradition and those in the sociocultural not able to agree on how they
view the ﬁeld of language development, or the methods of investigation that they use.
This debate is commonly agreed to have been brought into focus by an article by Firth
and Wagner (1997) who argued:
that SLA [Second Language Acquisition] research requires a signiﬁcantly enhanced
awareness of the contextual and interactional dimensions of language use, an
increased ‘emic’ (i.e., participant-relevant) sensitivity towards fundamental concepts,
and the broadening of the traditional SLA data base. (p. 285)
The cognitive tradition commonly referred to as SLA, views language development as
a process that occurs in isolation in the mind of the individual and methods used to
research language development are still generally experimental. Much of the research
focuses on the acquisition of grammar and vocabulary and not much occurs in real
classroom contexts. This tradition has developed out of the work of Chomsky (1965)
and Krashen (1981).
The sociocultural tradition, which has its roots in Vygotsky (1978, 1986), views
language development as a process that occurs in the social realm ﬁrst and the
meaning that is made in the social realm is then internalized. The research traditions
are more holistic and look at what happens in the activity of language learning itself
taking into account all of the elements in the environment and all of the actors. As a
result we get a richer and broader understanding of how languages are acquired and
what the practices are that facilitate the process.
There has been a tradition in CALL research that has followed the more
cognitive SLA route, although we can see this slowly changing as the inﬂuences
of the sociocultural turn begin to be felt more strongly. However, researchers like
Warschauer and Kern (2000) have argued for some time that CALL came of age
when it started to enable people to do the things they wanted to do with language
through technology, enabling language activity to be social and also observable. In
an edited collection published in 2000, they and others reported on activity that
they termed network-based language learning (NBLT). Warschauer and Kern have
suggested that we therefore need a broader theory set than that provided by cognitive
SLA and Warschauer wrote one of the early articles in the CALL ﬁeld that laid out a
sociocultural viewpoint (1997). Others have also followed this tradition:Thorne, Black
and Sykes (2009), for example, extended the use of these theories to other virtual
spaces, for example, internet interest groups and online games. Gánem-Gutiérrez
(2009) has explored classroom practice learning language with computers.
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 57
This chapter therefore will show how the ‘sociocultural family of learning theories’
(Roth & Lee, 2007
, p. 189), which is already partially being used in the ﬁeld of CALL
research (Motteram, 2012), is applicable to teacher education for CALL and has the
necessary explanatory power to promote its growth as a serious subject for academic
study. It will further argue that the adoption of the broader theory set would enable us
to build the ﬁeld on a more solid foundation and more easily allow us to compare the
work we do.
The broad domain
In order to know where to better position teacher education for CALL, we need to
develop an understanding of how the ﬁeld has developed. A good place to start is a
recent book by Burns and Richards (2009), which has 30 chapters on different aspects
of what they term SLTE. Alongside the other 28, there are 2 later chapters that look
speciﬁcally at ways that educational technology has begun to impact on the ﬁeld of
SLTE. The fact that a recent general book on teacher education should consider it
important to include at least two chapters on aspects of educational technology is in
itself a good indication of the sub-domain’s growing importance and that technology in
education is now considered a part of the mainstream.This trend is found increasingly
in general introductions to language teaching methodology, where technology features
more and more (e.g.,Tomlinson, 2011). In Burns and Richards (2009) there is a chapter
on language teacher education at a distance by Hall and Knox (2009) and one on the
what and the how of technology in teacher education for CALL by Reinders (2009).
The opening section of Burns and Richards (2009), called the ‘Landscape of Second
LanguageTeacher Education’, has four chapters: Scope;Trends; Critical LTE; and Social
and Cultural Perspectives. In the introduction to the book Burns and Richards argue
that while English has become a global phenomenon and supports the developing
global economy as a lingua franca, the ratio of learners to teacher educators in many
parts of the world is very high leading to an explosion of teacher education courses and
one might argue, although Burns and Richards do not, an increase in the move towards
technology supported courses run at a distance to try to help solve this problem.
Internal debates within the ﬁeld of language teaching in general have an impact
on what people choose to focus on in teacher education courses, as do debates in
the wider ﬁeld of teacher education. Burns and Richards (2009) talk, for example, of
reﬂective practice and teacher identity as being an internal debate within the SLTE
ﬁeld, whereas this has its origins in the broader world of teacher education, however,
these perspectives have been taken on as a core activity within the world of SLTE, they
are no longer considered as outliers. External pressures, including the global trends
mentioned above, also include the development of independent standards that we
adhere to, or work towards in different domains. We will consider external standards for
CALL teacher education as part of the sociocultural domain later, but sufﬁce it to say for
the time being that institutions like the European Commission or national governments
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
58
have an increasing view on the what and how of teacher development and the way that
teachers practise in classrooms. The European Commission are very keen on making
sure that ICT is used effectively in schools and have a set of competences that they are
expecting all member states to work towards (www.ecompetences.eu/) and TESOL
International have also developed their own set of standards (Healey et al., 2011).
Burns and Richards (2009) mention that within SLTE there is considerable diversity
in the courses on offer and alongside the development of courses that include
technology has been the development of courses specializing in working with teachers
of business English, or young learners, for example. They go on to consider the
knowledge base, the nature of teacher learning, the role of context, teacher cognition,
teacher identity, teacher methods and strategies, accountability and critical language
teacher education.
A key feature of the discussion in the Burns and Richards is the move towards a
sociocultural perspective when it comes to considering both language development
and language teacher education; this is further explored by Johnson in chapter 2 of their
book. Johnson wrote an early and inﬂuential article on this development in 2006, and
has since then produced her own book that explores the realm of the sociocultural in
teacher education (2009), as well as a collection of articles with Golombek (Johnson &
Golombek, 2011). Johnson (2009) argues we need to shift the focus in the knowledge
base away from the parent disciplines of, for example, linguistics, course design
and testing that have traditionally been the bedrock of language teacher education
to exploring alongside this what Shulman (1986) has termed pedagogical content
knowledge (PCK).This is the knowledge that teachers have about teaching their subject
discipline, the theories about teaching that they have built out of their practice.
While it is important to change our understanding of the knowledge base, it is also
important to explore how teachers might change their understandings of what they
do and why and how this might be changed with the development of practice around
reﬂection, action research and cooperative development. We will also be considering
this in relation to SLTE for CALL.
A third aspect of the change that Johnson highlights is the move away from the
narrow deﬁnition of SLA to the broader understanding of the ﬁeld to include context
and interaction, but which focus on the viewpoint of the learner. She cites the article
by Firth and Wagner (1997) that we have already touched on.
Another important and related ﬁeld that has developed in importance as SLTE has
grown is that of teacher beliefs (Ertmer, 2005) or teacher cognition (Borg, 2006). Part
of the process of encouraging teachers to make (more) use of technology in their
teaching is to work with them to explore the beliefs they have about its efﬁcacy and
implementation when it comes to improving learner language development. Teacher
belief and teacher cognition research have shown that for teachers to change their
practices and to begin to effectively include technology in their teaching they have to
have a belief that this is going to be of beneﬁt to their learners and also a value for
themselves.This is an important aspect of the sociocultural domain as has been argued
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 59
by Alanen (2003), in a chapter which focuses on young language learners’ beliefs about
language learning.
We now turn to second language teacher education for CALL to see how far it
measures up to these developments.
Second language teacher education for CALL
This chapter will not offer a comprehensive literature review in the traditional sense
and will be mainly focused on materials published in and since the 2006 book by
Hubbard and Levy, however, it will look brieﬂy at important relevant contributions to
the thesis presented here from earlier publications.
The ﬁrst collection of articles on teacher education and CALL was a special issue
of the journal Language Learning & Technology published in 2002. This was edited
by Zhao and Tella (2002) and while all of the articles explore aspects of the world of
teachers and technology only one focuses speciﬁcally on the area of teachers being
trained to use technology in classrooms. In the article Egbert, Paulus and Nakamichi
(2002), suggested, following Freeman (1996), that SLTE was ‘an unstudied problem’
(p. 108). They therefore chose to explore whether and how teachers transfer training
into their classrooms and whether, in fact, the training course is particularly important in
developing teachers’ use of CALL. They considered four research areas: how teachers
develop knowledge about CALL and the types of activities that are typically found in
classrooms; what impact the coursework had on the teaching that they were doing;
whether there were particular factors that made a difference to the teachers using
technology in their classrooms; and whether and how teachers develop and master
new ideas about CALL after ﬁnishing the course (p. 109).
Their study explored the practices of 20 recent graduates who had taken a graduate-
level CALL course and looked at how they applied what they had learned on the course
into their teaching. Their conclusions can be summarized as follows:
Teachers who show some interest or skill in using technology in classes
l
before they start the course are more likely to continue using it, but perhaps
in different ways.
Teachers also turn to theWeb and other colleagues for help solving particular
l
classroom issues and it is not a lack of interest on the part of the teachers,
but time pressure, the curriculum and not having the right resources that
inﬂuence whether they are successful.
Egbert, Paulus and Nakamichi (2002) go on to argue that there is a need for
l
‘more contextualised instruction’ (p. 122) and begin to refer to the work of
Lave and Wenger (1991) and ideas of situated practice.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
60
The next key work in the ﬁeld of teacher education for CALL is the Hubbard and Levy
(2006) book where we ﬁnd a mixture of chapters, some that approach the ﬁeld of
teacher education from the perspective of applied linguistics and some take an SLTE
approach. Examples of chapters that follow the SLTE approach include: Slaouti and
Motteram (2006) who engage with the theory of situated practice and Egbert (2006)
in her exploration of how to engage teachers in the realities of classroom teaching
while being on a course. Debski (2006), in exploring project-oriented learning on an
MA programme at the University of Melbourne, supports his discussion with Papert’s
constructionism. Chin-chi Chao (2006) uses the cognitive apprenticeship model of
Collins, Brown and Newman (1989) and both Meskill (2006) and Hanson-Smith (2006)
make reference to communities of practice (COP).
The chapters listed above recognize the importance of the sociocultural turn in SLTE
and suggest the beginnings of an alignment towards a more education-focused teacher
education for CALL, which will be of beneﬁt to the developing ﬁeld.
This chapter will now go on to explore some of the origins of sociocultural turn and
look at how it helps us understand what teachers do in their classrooms and how this
can have impact on the teacher education process.
The sociocultural in SLTE for CALL
A situated perspective
In the same way that in order to understand language development from the perspective
of the individual in a particular space at a particular time, teachers encountering teacher
education for CALL either in pre- or in-service courses, or informally in a community of
practice are governed in what they do by the context, the beliefs of the individual teacher,
the teacher’s knowledge base, the teacher’s pedagogical content knowledge, other
colleagues, the nature of the curriculum, the available technologies, the perspective of
the home institution, the support of technical colleagues and so on.
Elliott (1993) refers to this as situational understanding. Others use the term
‘situated’ and this term comes to us primarily through the work of Schön (1987) and
Lave and Wenger (1991). Lave and Wenger are concerned with how people learn,
not with teachers and what they do. However, the underlying principles that we are
interested in are similar and the distinction between learning and a term like ‘coming
to know’ (Somekh, 2007
, p. 148), often used to describe teacher learning through
practice, are very close in meaning. Lave and Wenger argue for the social construction
of knowledge, which takes place within frameworks for practice. Wenger (1999, p. 4)
explains such knowledge acquisition as referring:
. . . not just to local events of engagement in certain activities with certain
people, but to a more encompassing process of being active participants in the
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 61
practices of social communities and constructing identities in relation to these
communities.
Learning or ‘coming to know’ then comes out of engagement with other people and
their ideas; the same is true with teachers and teacher education.Teachers on a training
or development course ‘come to know’ about an aspect of teaching ﬁltered through
their background knowledge and experience as learners (pre-service) or teachers
(in-service), the community that they engage with, the input that is part of the course,
their reﬂection on their understanding of their practice and their willingness to entertain
new ideas and put these into practice. As Schön (1987) argues practitioners reﬂect both
‘in-action’ and ‘on-action’. ‘In-action’ reﬂection means reﬂection in a situation, while it is
occurring. ‘Reﬂection-on-action’ occurs after the event, but is still about the particular
context.This reﬂection may cause them to re-examine their knowledge and beliefs and
this might lead to change according to Schön (1987). This can occur on a training or
development course as well as in the throws of practice itself.
As we have argued, the view of teaching and learning has been constrained so far
by a cognitive approach. We now turn to a more detailed overview of sociocultural
theory to gain a broader picture and to understand why this picture is so relevant to
teacher education for CALL.
Sociocultural theory
Sociocultural theory has a number of starting points, but is very often associated
with Vygotsky and colleagues, Luria and Leont’ev. Vygotsky was concerned in his
work with bringing back together two strands of psychology: the more experimental
and psychometric approach that focuses on trying to reveal the cognitive landscape
of the isolated mind; and a cultural approach that saw development as being a
dialectic between humans and their environment, and which recognized the
fundamental role that cultural artefacts and history play in human development
(Cole, 1996).
Humans have two parts to their nature, their physical and biological attributes and
their ability and desire to create cultural artefacts (agency) that are passed on to the
next and later generations, and which become altered and augmented over time.
These cultural artefacts enable humans to develop the unique skills and abilities that
allow them to supersede their inherent physical and biological attributes and make us
fundamentally different from other species:
The internalization of socially rooted and historically developed activities is the
distinguishing feature of human psychology, the basis of the qualitative leap from
animal to human psychology. (Vygotsky, 1978, p. 57)
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
62
Vygotsky was interested in children’s development and the role that the cultural artefact
of language had on the development of higher psychological processes. As humans we
have the biological capability to produce the sounds that make up spoken language and
the cognitive capability to make meaning through words, we also relate these words
together through morphology and syntax. In this way humans are enabled to make
sense of the situations they encounter in the world and to engage in communicative
acts with others. These acts in the world help to develop the processes that make up
the human mind. However, it is only through engagement with the physical world and
the cultural artefacts found there that the human mind can grow and develop.
The development of language (and other symbol systems like numbers) over time
has had a profound impact on human development. Initially starting with spoken
language, where stories and other information were passed down the generations by
telling, the later developments of writing in its various forms has changed how humans
can record their history and develop a broad knowledge base, accessible, potentially, to
all. These developments in cultural artefacts have had and continue to have an impact
on human mental processes. In our moves through different ages from the agricultural
to the industrial and latterly information age, we have seen the impact that writing in
different media and other types of recording (sound and video) have had on the ability
of people to access and use information (Briggs & Burke, 2009).
We will now look more closely at sociocultural views of mediating tools and teacher
action in the world.
First generation sociocultural theory, which is how Vygotskian theory is often
characterized (Roth & Lee, 2007
, p. 189), sees a subject focused on an object and
using ‘sign or semiotic mediation, especially in the form of speech’ (ibid.) to engage in
development. This ﬁrst generation theory is often represented as a triangle where the
base of the triangle is the stimulus and response of behavioural theory (Figure 4.1).
Vygotsky added to this the mediating cultural artefact that he proposed was always
in evidence when learning occurred (Figure 4.2).
Vygotsky’s research focused on children, because they were still in the process of
developing, and such developments could be seen and monitored. We can see a child
trying to reach for a toy that they are interested in playing with, perhaps initially pointing
at it and then later beginning to imitate the sounds that the adult carer uses when
the child reaches for the toy. After time, this sound becomes fully formed complex
sentences that are later used by the child in a generalizable way to get what they want;
they no longer need to point. Vygotsky’s colleagues later looked at adults who suffered
some form of neurological damage and their road to recovery in order to understand
how they had recovered. Leont’ev extended Vygotsky’s initial work to show how the
broader community was involved in an activity. Leont’ev (1977) used a description of a
hunt to show how different parts of an activity system work together (or against) the
Stimulus Response
FIGURE 4.1 A behavioural view of learning challenged by Vygotsky.
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 63
subject(s) to achieve their object. In a hunt you might have beaters who work to chase
the birds from the woods towards the group who have guns and who shoot the birds.
The shooters have to be careful that they only ﬁre in a certain direction so as not to
wound any of the beaters. Next to the shooters stand people who load the guns. At
the end of the day the shooters keep most of the game, but each beater and loader
also receives one bird as their pay.The Subjects use guns to kill animals, they observe
certain rules of shooting in order not to kill other people; there is a community of
people involved in the process: beaters, loaders and others who divide up the labour
between them.
Leont’ev (1977) did not represent his work as triangles, this was Engeström’s (1987)
creation of a heuristic based on Leont’ev’s ideas (see Figure 4.3). Engeström took
Leont’ev’s (1977) story of a primitive hunt and re-created it as a heuristic to show
how human activity is made up of a number of elements which surround the core
relationship between the Subject and Object.
R
S
Tools & Signs
FIGURE 4.2 Cultural mediation in development.
Artefacts
Community
Rules
Divisions of
labour
Subject Object
FIGURE 4.3 Engestrom’s (1987) representation of Leont’ev’s (1977) description of a hunt.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
64
Any activity is thus a complex matrix; to gain an overall impression of sociocultural
teacher education we need to consider all of the elements. We may not be able to
focus on all of these at the same time, but they are always going to be there having
an impact on what we do in the teacher education process and once teachers begin
to work in classrooms. Egbert acknowledges this in both her 2002 article (with Paulus
and Nakamichi), but extends this idea in her 2006 chapter. While Hubbard and Levy’s
book focused on the teacher in 2006, the domain that we need to explore now is rather
broader and we are aware of this from the literature from SLTE, as we have shown. If
we are to build up the ﬁeld of teacher education for CALL, then we need to consider
all of these different elements.
Activity theory
The activity theory heuristic of the triangle can be a useful way of representing all
of the different elements of a situation that need to be taken into account when we
consider what should be the domain of teacher education for CALL. It is one of the
developments of sociocultural theory that has been used by a number of writers in
the ﬁeld of CALL (e.g., Blin, 2004) and it is argued here is the most useful for an
understanding of teachers in their classroom settings.
Here is a representation of the issues that we believe to be relevant to the teacher
education for CALL arguments that we have presented so far (see Figure 4.4).
A range of technologies
Reflection
Knowledge base
Pedagogical content Knowledge
Teacher beliefs
Other teachers on a course
Teacher professional groups
Wider society
Training/development
Formal/informal
learning arrangements
Curriculum
Awarding body
Standards
Teachers
Teacher trainers
Administrators
Technicians
Second Language
Teacher Education for
CALL
Language teachers
making use of technology
as part of their teaching
FIGURE 4.4 The sociocultural domain of teacher education for CALL.
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 65
All of the elements that have been discussed so far are included in the heuristic.
We see the growing ﬁeld of teacher education for CALL and the inﬂuences on the
process of supporting language teachers who are trying, or some cases perhaps,
being required to use technology in their classrooms. We can see at a glance what the
different factors are and we can equally show others the complexity of what needs to
be taken into account when starting to work with teachers and support them to make
use of technology to support language teaching.
The Cambridge study
The chapter will now present data from teachers who were involved in a recent project
conducted with Cambridge University Press exploring the practices of adult teachers
of languages using technology. This project lasted for 2 years and as well as surveying
a large number of teachers around the world, also developed 17 case studies showing
the kind of detail of the practice that we have been discussing so far.
What follows is a vignette based on one of the detailed case studies. This gives a
ﬂavour of a teacher going through a process of ‘coming to know’ about his practice.
Simon1
Simon, originally from the US, works at a Japanese state university teaching general
English and TOEFL and TOEIC exam classes to undergraduate students from a mix
of disciplines. Class sizes vary from 10 up to 30 or 40. Learner motivation can be
equally wide-ranging, Simon describing some who are forced to learn English as
having had any interest, ‘drilled out of them’. Like many universities in Japan, there
is a lot of technology available. Students have access to a virtual private network,
personalised desktops, and WiFi. The latter is not widely exploited by students,
however, who do not usually have their own laptops, making greater use of mobile
phones, to the extent that Simon believes that ‘some have skipped a computer
generation and just do not know how to use a PC or laptop’. Any ambitions to exploit
their phones for learning activities have also thus far been fruitless, as despite Simon
perceiving potential there, they cannot connect to the wireless network. There are,
nevertheless, institutional aspirations for e-learning as a way to maintain currency
in the student market. Simon attributes a university vision for the development
of ‘ready e-learning content’ for any teacher to use with speciﬁc client groups to
an ambition to cater for declining general student numbers (an outcome of falling
birth rates) through larger staff-student ratios. His own use of technology does not
chime with a ‘ready solutions’ vision; ﬂexible responses to his learner needs such
as production of listening content (MP3 ﬁles, iTunes) which he can manipulate as
he wishes (slowing down rate of speech in Quicktime), tasks created with text
manipulation software (Hot Potatoes) and embedded into the class VLE (Moodle),
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
66
learners practising pronunciation with Audacity all bear witness to his description
of his practice as tool-based, a practice enabled by his own technology-using
conﬁdence. Today he is teaching a conversation class in a recently installed ‘state-
of-the art’ CALL lab. Equipped with computers, arranged in rows, with Internet
connection for both teacher and students, Simon can control all machines in the
room. A document camera allows him to display the textbook on a central screen. ‘I
didn’t really“choose” the classroom technologies, as the room was actually assigned
to me against my will,’ he says. ‘Although I’d planned on using the VLE (Moodle) for
course support, I didn’t think the physical layout of the room would be conducive
to good conversation practice, but in the end everything worked out quite well.’
A task for conversation practice, an interactive listening quiz produced using Hot
Potatoes, and a link to an external vocabulary quiz, have all been added to Moodle
before the lesson. Students have submitted an assignment and preparatory notes
for the present lesson. Simon observes that a 90-minute lesson has involved him
in two hours of checking of 30 submissions, and about one hour to create, upload,
and embed the quiz. After checking Simon’s comments on their work, Simon ‘turns
off’ the monitors around the room, and students’ attention is turned to the textbook
displayed on the document camera. Focussing on the shared screen, pairs carry out
a review task; their computers are then ‘released’ again for the listening task and
quiz. Despite Simon observing wryly, ‘our “advanced” system does not seem to
allow for the playing of audio over the speakers in the room’ his reﬂections are more
positively coloured. ‘When this is done in groupwork, problems don’t stand out as
much. This may have had negative effects on motivation for the weaker students,
but it did allow me to step up and offer personal assistance’. Simon makes a point
of noting that this has contributed to ‘better bonds between lower level students
and the teacher, fostering a better learning relationship’.
This vignette paints a brief picture of Simon in his contextual reality. Readers of this
description may recognize some of the detail of their own institutional setting, or of
Simon’s technology use and thinking, though probably not all. We, therefore, start
with a view that our understanding of what teachers do and how they do it relates to
interpretations of contextual realities, ﬁltered through the knowledge and beliefs they
hold about themselves and about language teaching and learning and their students.
We can understand some aspects of the situations that the teachers are in through
observation or by gathering more objective data, as we did through a survey that was
a part of the Cambridge study, however, we only really understand how the teacher
views their situation by exploring both teachers’ actions and their interpretation of
those actions, as we did through the case studies in the project. The picture that
emerges from this process not only provides exemplars of teachers’ technology use
in the real world, but also reﬂects the increasing acceptance, not only in our ﬁeld but
in many other areas of life, that in order to come close to genuine understanding of
how and why people act, we must look beyond the individual alone. We are interested
in the individual, which is why we focus on teacher cases, but in the individual as they
act in their environment.
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 67
We can represent Simon’s context and our analysis of it in Figure 4.5.
The case study and its representation in this heuristic helps us to begin to build
a stronger and more trustworthy picture of the realities of teaching using CALL and
these understandings can feed into the teacher education process. We can show
on our teacher education courses working with teachers to develop their skill using
technology that there is a reason why we focus not simply on introducing teachers to
technology, but also on considering learning theory, the context that they work in, the
societal drivers, the nature of learners and whether they can get effective support from
their institution.
We now turn to voices of two other teachers, who use technology with their adult
learners. First, Ilya, working in Switzerland, talks about her ambitions to use wikis to
encourage her advanced learners to see writing development as a social and situated
practice. Next, Aaron reﬂects on perceptions of how the pedagogical opportunities that
technology integration can bring may mean working in ways which are counter to his
Colombian university learners’ expectations.
Ilya
I’ve noticed that learners can improve quite a bit through guided correction of their
work. I use a code to describe the mistakes they make, sometimes marking the
mistake and sometimes not, letting them correct these themselves. I also use
the comment function on digitally sent homework, explaining certain problems.
This has worked well in making their work more correct, though many learners
A range of different
technologies: Moodle,
mp3s, the new lab,
Hot Potatoes
The institution
The learners
University vision to
develop ‘ready
e-learning content’
Need to use the newly
equipped rooms
Simon’s flexible response
Simon’s perceptions of his
learners’ use of technology
The institution
provides the
technology and
Simon tries to
use it to meet
the learners’
needs
American language
teacher in Japan
Improve results in
language exams and
to increase motivation
FIGURE 4.5 A sociocultural perspective on Simon.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
68
are unable to increase the vocabulary and use of structures in their writing. On the
other hand there are a few learners who have reached a degree of complexity which
is desirable and from which the other learners could proﬁt. Up until now I haven’t
found a way to let learners work together on writing and correction for more than
just a very few lessons because of the time involved. With the wiki learners work
on a text they have written (further texts from the learners can be added) and proﬁt
from each other. They are sharing with each other, comparing language and making
changes without fear of ‘ruining’ the text as the different versions can be compared
and I’ll monitor the process. Since this can take place outside the classroom, it
frees up time for other things and gives them as much time as they need or want
for looking up words and ﬁnding expressions.
Aaron
I try to integrate the CD-ROMs as much as possible because otherwise it’s just going
to be like an add-on and they’re not going to be taken seriously. But even then they
are not taken that seriously, and that relates to the teacher-learner relationships here.
They’re very traditional in the sense that students look at teachers and they think
that we know everything. They will ask us instead of ﬁnding out for themselves –
what’s the term – it’s a ‘ﬁrst answer’ approach. They will ﬁnd the ﬁrst answer and
that will be it, they don’t need to know anything more and I think that Web activities
contradict this idea of what students perceive the role of teachers to be. That’s
why it is very difﬁcult here for distance learning courses to take off. They just think
‘well the teacher’s not doing anything here, I’m doing everything, what’s going on.
Why am I paying for a course where I have to do everything – I have to ﬁnd the
answers, that’s not right’.That’s all because of this traditional sort of teacher-student
relationship.
These short extracts show us the insider, the ‘emic’ viewpoint and give us a clear
sense of teacher perceptions of the attributes of speciﬁc technologies. They show
teachers’ starting points and the way their ideas develop based on the needs of their
learners. This emphasizes the role of the beliefs that the teachers have about learning
and teaching with technology and how these relate to the decision-making process
connected with technology in the classroom. How this decision-making can provide
different learning opportunities in relation to the beliefs of the different teachers about
how language learning takes place and their understandings of how their learners like
to learn. They also exemplify how decisions to use or not to use technology involve an
interaction with the environment in which they work, the nature of the community,
the community’s rules and the divisions of labour between different participants in the
community. As many of these teachers who are reporting the case studies are also
involved in teacher education courses of various kinds, further work can be undertaken
to show the link between such courses and what happens when they are back in their
teaching posts as Egbert, Paulus and Nakamichi (2002) tried to show.
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 69
The broader understandings that we have of teachers’ lives with technology from
these case studies and the way that these show the importance of broader sociocultural
domain can have a direct positive washback effect into teacher education for CALL and
the work we do as trainers and educators on our courses. They also highlight practice
for those working independently in informal communities of practice, who may be
wondering whether their experiences chime with others in the domain.
Conclusions
The argument that has been made in this chapter is that while the origins of the ﬁeld
of teacher education for CALL were more closely connected to applied linguistics, we
need to move away from this and more closely ally ourselves to the work currently being
undertaken in SLTE. SLTE, as evidenced by recent publications by key researchers in
this ﬁeld, is focusing quite clearly on a sociocultural turn and this turn allows us to have
a more signiﬁcant understanding of what occurs in the real situations that our teachers
ﬁnd themselves in. By drawing on the kinds of case studies that were collected as part
of the Cambridge study into adult language learning with technology and using in this
case, an activity theory heuristic, we can show the connectedness of different studies
and the realities of teachers’ lives. This can be used to effectively focus on teachers’
pedagogical content knowledge captured in the real world of activity, we can review
the beliefs of teachers and the impact that they have on decision-making, we can
consider what are likely to be the constraints that occur in teaching environments and
how teachers have circumvented them. How a community of like-minded teachers can
help to support each other in the development of their practice can be considered and
we teachers can be involved in reporting their successes to the world. For us this is an
important and signiﬁcant step forward.
Acknowlegements
We would like to acknowledge the support of Cambridge University Press who funded
this project and the Cambridge project team leaders Karen Momber and Daniel
Stunell.
Note
1 Most of the teachers in this study wanted us to use their real names, although the
contexts have not been identiﬁed directly.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
70
References
Blin, F
. (2004). CALL and the development of learner autonomy: Towards an
activity-theoretical perspective. ReCALL, 16(2), 377–95.
Borg, S. (2006). Teacher cognition and language education. London: Continuum.
Briggs, A., & Burke, P
. (2009). Social history of the media: From Gutenberg to the Internet.
Cambridge: Polity Press.
Burns, A., & Richards, J. (Eds.) (2009). The Cambridge guide to second language teacher
education. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Chao, C.-C. (2006). How WebQuests send technology to the background: Scaffolding EFL
professional development in CALL. In P
. Hubbard & M. Levy (Eds.), Teacher education
in CALL (pp. 221–34). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chomsky, N. (1965). Aspects of the theory of syntax. Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Cole, M. (1996). Cultural psychology: A once and future discipline. Harvard: Harvard
University Press.
Collins, A., Brown, J., & Newman, S. (1989). Cognitive apprenticeship: Teaching the craft
of reading, writing and mathematics. In L. B. Resnick (Ed.), Knowing, learning and
instruction: Essays in honor of Robert Glaser (pp. 453–94). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Debski, R. (2006). Theory and practice in teaching project-oriented CALL. In P
. Hubbard &
M. Levy (Eds.), Teacher education in CALL (pp. 99–114). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Egbert, J. (2006). Learning in context: Situating language learning in CALL. In P
. Hubbard &
M. Levy (Eds.), Teacher education in CALL (pp. 167–81). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Egbert, J., Paulus, T. M., & Nakamichi, Y. (2002). The impact of CALL instruction on
classroom computer use: A foundation for rethinking technology in teacher education.
Language Learning and Technology, 6(3), 108–26.
Elliot, J. (1993). Professional education and the idea of a practical educational science. In
J. Elliott (Ed.), Reconstructing teacher education. London: Falmer Press.
Engeström, Y. (1987). Learning by expanding: An activity-theoretical approach to
developmental research. Helsinki, Finland: Orienta-Konsultit Oy.
Ertmer, P
. A. (2005). Teacher pedagogical beliefs: The ﬁnal frontier in our quest for
technology integration? Educational Technology Research and Development, 53(4),
25–39.
Firth, A., & Wagner, J. (1997). On discourse, communication, and (some) fundamental
concepts in SLA research. The Modern Language Journal, 81(3), 285–300.
Freeman, D. (1996). The ‘unstudied problem’: Research on teacher learning in language
teaching. In D. Freeman & J. Richards (Eds.), Teacher learning in language teaching
(pp. 351–78). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gánem-Gutiérrez, G. A. (2009). Repetition, use of L1, and reading aloud as mediational
mechanisms during collaborative activity at the computer. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 22(4), 323–48.
Hall, D. R., & Knox, J. S. (2009). Language teacher education by distance. In A. Burns
& J. C. Richards (Eds.), The Cambridge guide to second language teacher education
(pp. 218–29). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hanson-Smith, E. (2006). Communities of practice for pre- and in-service education. In
P
. Hubbard & M. Levy (Eds.), Teacher education in CALL, (pp. 301–15). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Healey, D., Hanson-Smith, E., Hubbard, P
., Loannou-Georgiou, S., Kessler, G., & Ware,
P
. (2011). TESOL technology standards: Description, integration, implementation.
Alexandria, VA: TESOL.
SECOND LANGUAGE TEACHER EDUCATION FOR CALL 71
Hubbard, P
., & Levy, M. (Eds.) (2006). Teacher education in CALL. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Johnson, K. E. (1996). The role of theory in L2 teacher education. TESOL Quarterly 30(4),
765–71.
— (2009). Second language teacher education: A sociocultural perspective. London:
Routledge.
Johnson, K. E., & Golombek, P
. R. (Eds.) (2011). Research on second language teacher
education: A sociocultural perspective on professional development. New York:
Routledge.
Krashen, S. D. (1981). Second language acquisition and second language learning. Oxford:
Pergamon.
Lave, J., & Wenger, E. (1991). Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral participation.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Leont’ev, A. N. (1977). The development of mind. Moscow: Progress Publishers.
Meskill, C., Anthony, N., Hilliker-VanStander, N. S., Tseng, C-H., & You, J. (2006).
Expert-novice teaching mentoring in language learning technology. In P
. Hubbard, &
M. Levy (Eds.), Teacher education in CALL (pp. 283–98). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Motteram, G. (2012). Re-aligning research into teacher education for CALL and
bringing it into the mainstream, Language Teaching. Available on CJO doi:10.1017/
S0261444811000632.
Reinders, H. (2009). Technology and second language teacher education. In A. Burns &
J. C. Richards (Eds.), The Cambridge guide to second language teacher education (pp.
230–7). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schön, D. (1987). Educating the reﬂective practitioner. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Shulman, L. S. (1986). Those who understand: Knowledge growth in teaching. Educational
Researcher, 15(2), 4–14.
Slaouti, D., & Motteram, G. (2006). Reconstructing practice: Language teacher education
and ICT. In P
. Hubbard & M. Levy (Eds.), Teacher education in CALL (pp. 81–97).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Somekh, B. (2007). Pedagogy and learning with ICT: Researching the art of innovation.
Oxford: Routledge.
Thorne, S. L., Black, R. W., & Sykes, J. (2009). Second language use, socialization, and
learning in internet interest communities and online games. Modern Language Journal,
93, 802–21.
Tomlinson, B. (2011). Materials development in language teaching. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Vygotsky, L. S. (1978). Mind in society: The development of higher psychological
processes. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
— (1986). Thought and language. Massachusetts: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Press.
Warschauer, M. (1997). A sociocultural approach to literacy and its signiﬁcance for CALL.
In K. Murphy-Judy & R. Sanders (Eds.), Nexus: The convergence of research & teaching
through new information technologies (pp. 88–97). Durham: University of North
Carolina.
Warschauer, M., & Kern R. (Eds.) (2000). Network-based language teaching: Concepts and
practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wenger, E. (1999). Communities of practice: Learning, meaning and identity. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Zhao, Y., & Tella, S. (2002). From the special issue editors. Language Learning &
Technology, 6(3), 2–5.
5
Research on computers in
language testing:
Past, present and future
James Dean Brown
Summary
The purpose of this chapter is to examine developments in computer-based language
testing including what we have learned in the past, current trends and directions in
future research. In the past, four sets of issues were addressed and fairly well resolved:
item banking, using the new technologies, computer-adaptive language testing
and the effectiveness of computers in language testing. Most of that research was
practical in nature. More recently, much of the literature on computer-based language
testing (CBLT) has focused on the following topics: overviews of the CBLT literature
itself, CBLT delivery issues (including computer-adaptive language testing, computer
vs traditional testing formats, Web-based language testing, interface architecture,
the test takers’ experience with CBLT and CBLT training for teachers), CBLT content
(including computer assessment of vocabulary, speaking or oral skills, writing, listening
and reading), example CBLTs and CBLT tools/resources. CBLT is not a new area of
research, but it is clearly growing and generating a good deal of excitement within
language testing.
Introduction
Roughly a decade and a half ago, Brown (1997) found that the CBLT literature was
discussing: (a) how to use an item bank, (b) how to use new technologies, (c) how to
build computer-adaptive tests and (d) how effective computers are in language testing.
The purpose of the present chapter is to examine the CBLT literature that has appeared
since that earlier article with the goal of summarizing how things have progressed and
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
74
changed since then. To that end, this chapter will be organized under the following
headings: overviews of CBLT, CBLT delivery, CBLT content, example CBLTs and CBLT
tools and resources.
Since the literature on technology and testing, especially in language testing, is rife
with acronyms that are used inconsistently across authors, I provide Table 5.1, which
lists and spells out all of the general acronyms that I will use in this chapter. In the
interest of clarity, I will limit myself to this list.
For similar reasons, I have provided Table 5.2, which lists and spells out various
key acronyms for computer-based tests and testing systems and provides citations or
URLs for getting more information about each.
Overviews of CBLT
Since Brown (1997
, also reprinted in 2009), a number of other overview articles have
appeared on the general topic of CBLT. For example, Gruba and Corbel (1997) focused
almost entirely on CALT including discussions of the major contributions of CAT to
CBLT; some speciﬁc test development projects; difﬁculties encountered in developing
CALTs (including administrative, psychometric, test design and validity concerns); and
future directions.
Alderson (2000a) brieﬂy discussed how hardware and software had developed, how
theTOEFL had arrived in a computer-based version, how the UCLES tests had become
available in CD-ROM versions and how the internet was being used for language
testing. In the process, he covered the advantages and disadvantages of CBLTs, the
basics of CAT, the pedagogical advantages of CBLTs and advances in IBLTs, while
focusing on examples from the TOEFL and DIALANG. He also proposed a research
agenda.
Douglas (2000) provided an overview in the last chapter of his book of the roles of
technology in assessment within LSP contexts (pp. 259–77). He included a section on
internet resources for LSP testing (with a number of examples and URLs), as well as
sections on CALTs and CBLTs for LSP
.
Chapelle (2001) offered an excellent overview of CBLT to that date in her fourth
chapter. She included a discussion of test method effects, an extensive examination
of issues important for validation of CBLTs (validity arguments, validity criteria for
evaluating tests and testing purposes, importance of construct validity, as well as
empirical and logical analyses of validity), a section on CBLT usefulness criteria and
detailed discussion of standards for empirically evaluating CBLTs.
In their overview of developments in CALL from 1900 to 2000, Liu, Moore, Graham
and Lee (2003) included a section on CBLT (pp. 256–7) that summarized the major
beneﬁts of CBLT including the possibilities of: immediate feedback, individualized
testing and randomization through test banks to increase testing security. This article
also summarized the major criticisms of CBLT: the inability of technology to assess
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 75
TABLE 5.1 General acronyms used in this chapter
Acronym Meaning Notes
AES Automated scoring systems
AWE Automated writing evaluation
CALL Computer-assisted language learning
CALT Computer-adaptive language test/testing Speciﬁc to language testing
CAT Computer-adaptive test/testing General, in all ﬁelds
CBLT Computer-based language test/testing Synonym for computer-assisted
language test/testing*
CBT Computer-based testing General, in all ﬁelds
CD-ROM Compact disk read-only memory
COPI Computerized oral proﬁciency instrument
IBLT Internet-based language test/testing Speciﬁc to language testing
IBT Internet-based test/testing General, in all ﬁelds
IRT Item response theory
IT Information technology
LSP Language for speciﬁc purposes
P&P Paper-and-pencil
PBLT Paper-based language test/testing Speciﬁc to language testing
SL/FL Second language and foreign language
SOPI Simulated oral proﬁciency instrument
UCLES University of Cambridge Local
Examinations Syndicate
URL Uniform resource locator Commonly called an internet
address
WBLT Web-based language test/testing Speciﬁc to language testing
WBT Web-based test/testing General, in all ﬁelds
* To avoid any possible confusion between computer-assisted language testing (shortened to CALT in some
articles and computer-adaptive language testing (also shortened to CALT in some articles), I will consistently
use the generic computer-based language testing abbreviated as CBLT when referring to all forms of compu-
ter-based or computer-assisted language testing. I will then reserve CALT for referring to computer-adaptive
language testing.
WBT Web-based test/testing General, in all ﬁelds
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
76
TABLE 5.2 Acronyms used in this chapter for current computer-based
tests and testing systems
Acronym Test name Where to ﬁnd more information
ACT ESL ACT English as a Second Language
Placement Test
www.act.org/compass/tests/esl.
html
BEST Plus Basic English Skills Test www.cal.org/aea/
BULATS Business Language Testing Service www.bulats.org/Bulats/The-Tests.
html
CAPE Computerized Adaptive Placement
Exam
https://www.aetip.com/Products/
CAPE/CAPE2.cfm
CB IELTS Computer-Based International English
Language Testing System
www.ielts.org/
CELSA Combined English Language Skills
Assessment
www.assessment-testing.com/
celsa.htm
CEOTS College English Oral Test System Yu & Lowe (2007)
CLIPS Computerized Language Instruction
and Practice Software
Larson & Hendricks (2009)
DIALANG A suite of diagnostics foreign language
tests
Alderson & Huhta (2005)
French CAPT French Computer-Adaptive Placement
Test
Laurier (1999)
French CAT French Computer-Adaptive Test Burston & Monville-Burston (1995)
GPT/SPT German Placement Test/Spanish
Placement Test
Bernhardt, Rivera & Kamil (2004)
Hausa CAT Hausa Computer-Adaptive Test Dunkel (1999)
NEPTON New English Placement Test Online Papandima-Sophocleous (2008)
PAU Prueba de Acceso a la Universidad
(Spanish Internet-Based University
Entrance Examination)
Garcia Laborda (2009)
PLEVALEX Plataforma de Evaluación Valenciana de
Lenguas Extranjeras
García Laborda (2007b, 2009)
R-CARPE Russian Computer-Adaptive Reading
Proﬁciency Examination
Larson (1999)
SPT Spanish Placement Test Zabaleta (2007)
SST Spoken Spanish Test Bernstein, Barbier, Rosenfeld & de
Jong (2004)
TOEFL iBT Internet-Based Test of English as a
Foreign Language
www.ets.org/toeﬂ/ibt/about
TOEFL iBT Internet-Based Test of English as a
Foreign Language
www.ets.org/toeﬂ/ibt/about
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 77
speaking and writing; the potential disadvantages that computer illiteracy could
impose on novice computer users; and the decontextualized language presented in
single screen formats.
Jamieson (2005) was organized around three steps in the evolution of CBLT. The
ﬁrst step was the use of traditional item types and language testing constructs that
were simply put into computer formats. The second step involved the ‘added value’
(p. 230) of using IRT to develop CATs. She then turned to innovations that were likely
to occur in the near term especially those related to designing language tasks and
score reporting. In the more distant future, she saw computer scoring of productive
language as a possibility as well as increasing use of new task types that include
authentic video-taped language input.
DouglasandHegelheimer(2007)followeduponJamieson’s(2005)articlebysurveying
progress in constructing, delivering and scoring CBLTs. They did so with particular
attention to the relationship between language constructs and Jamieson’s three steps.
In terms of constructing CBLTS, they covered computer-based options for authoring
CBLTs.They also examined trends in scoring, feedback and reporting systems including
speciﬁc scoring engines, automated writing evaluation, automated identiﬁcation of
off-topic essays and automated scoring of non-native speech. The authors ended by
listing six major threats to validity posed by computer delivery systems.
Garcia Laborda (2007a) provided an introduction to the features of computer test
design, some of the item types used in IBLTs and CBLTs (multiple-choice, writing
and speaking) and a review of some of the high stakes tests used internationally.
He also discussed the future of CBLT in the short-term (security, technical devices
and capability, test features and design, as well as test interpretations and washback)
and long-term (communities of language learners, language test preparation and test
enjoyment).
Dooey (2008) discussed the importance of language testing and the effects of
technology on reliability and validity. She went on to explore the research on construct
validity with a focus on the computer-human interfaces in terms of the effects on
scores of computer familiarity and anxiety. She also explored the practical advantages
of computer delivery systems in terms of their ﬂexibility with regard to when and where
examinees can take the tests, item banking, instant feedback and data accumulation
for research purposes. She ended with a section on the relative effects of technology
on the testing of listening and reading on the CB IELTS and the testing of writing on
the computer-based TOEFL and TOEFL iBT.
Ockey (2009) examined CBT as it applied to second language testing starting with
Garret (1991), who described CBT as ‘the computerized administration of conventional
tests’ (p. 88) and then explored the effects of CBLT on the way language abilities were
characterized and tested. Ockey argued that the advantages of CBLT were that they:
can deliver more authentic tests; allow relatively reliable, easy and quick scoring of
speech and writing samples; and promote the use of authentic tasks in assessment.
The disadvantages were that CBLTs still had security problems and that CALTs in
particular had not yet lived up to their promise.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
78
With a narrower focus, Prapphal (2008) reviewed new trends in language testing
in Thailand including issues related to human resources development, professional
certiﬁcation, incorporation of IT into language testing, quality assurance, learner
self-assessment and current innovations in language testing.
Chapelle and Douglas (2006) co-authored a book that covered a number of topics:
(a) the place of CBLTs in language education including discussions of CBLTs and
teachers, CBLTs and researchers and the future of CBLTs; (b) CBLT test method
characteristics including temporal and physical circumstances, instructions and
rubrics, inputs and expected responses, input/response interactions and assessment
characteristics (construct deﬁnitions and scoring criteria/procedures); (c) problems
with CBLTs including different types of test performance, novel task types, item
selection limitations, erroneous automatic scoring, potential security problems and
possible negative impacts; (d) CBLT implementation including a section on authoring
tools and another that proposes a model for the system that underlies assessment
(activity selection, presentation, processing of responses and summary scoring); (e)
guidelines for evaluating CBLTs including points to consider before the test (planning
the test purpose/function and test length, as well as writing items), during the test
(examining the item response formats, giving feedback, thinking about the timing and
recording the results) and after the test (evaluating the above score-based decisions and
presenting the results to examinees); and (f) the impact of CBLTs including advances
in language assessment and applied linguistics due to CBLT and future directions that
need exploration. All of which, (a) to (f), serves the overall purpose of high-quality CBLT
delivery, which is the topic in the next section.
CBLT delivery
A number of articles have concentrated on the issues involved in CBLT delivery
including computer-adaptive language testing, computer versus traditional testing
formats, Web-based language testing, interface architecture, test takers’ experiences
with CBLT and CBLT training for teachers.
Computer-Adaptive Language Testing
Brown (1997) examined the literature on CBLT and CBT and ended up focusing
primarily on CAT, predicting that future research in language testing might tend towards
addressing questions like the following about CALTs:
1 How should we pilot CALTS?
2 Should a CALT be standard length or vary across students?
3 How should we sample CALT items?
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 79
4 What are the effects of changing the difﬁculty of CALT items?
5 How can we deal with item sets on a CALT?
6 How should we score CALTS?
7 How should we deal with CALT item omissions?
8 How should we make decisions about cut-points on CALTs?
9 How can we avoid CALT item exposure?
10 Should we provide item review opportunities on a CALT?
11 How can we comply with legal disclosure laws when administering CALTs?
To some degree, Brown (1997) was correct. For example, Meunier (1994), Young,
Shermis, Brutten and Perkins (1996), Dunkel (1999a) and Larson (1999) all began
their discussions of CALT by listing the beneﬁts to be derived from it: shorter tests;
examinee self-pacing; test individualization to examinees’ ability levels; enhanced
test security; faster scoring and feedback; greater measurement precision; and use
of multimedia. Meunier (1994) advocated using ‘adaptive live-action simulations’ to
assess students’ abilities to function in situations, which could in turn be adapted
to the examinees’ ability levels. Young et al. (1996) used CAT to develop a CALT for
ESL reading comprehension using HyperCAT. In the process, they discussed three
constraints on CAT development (i.e., the need for item unidimensionality, examinee
homogeneity and neutral effects for test method). Dunkel (1999a) also focused on
overcoming the challenges that face CALT developers in terms of: the basic language
testing principles that govern all testing formats; psychometric and technical issues
speciﬁc to CALT; basic software and hardware issues related speciﬁcally to CALT; and
issues related to administering CALTs.
In contrast, Larson (1999) discussed the development of an L2 CALT Russian reading
test that sequenced reading items much in the way many oral-proﬁciency interviews
are sequenced – with a warm-up, level-check, ceiling-check and wind-down. In the
same year, Laurier (1999) described the development of a CAT for French placement
and the value of CAT for that purpose. He then turned to discussions of item banking,
IRT models and software/hardware considerations.
Like many before them, Chalhoub-Deville and Deville (1999) began with the beneﬁts
and drawbacks of CBT and CAT, then went on to discuss the state of technology at
that time, CAT item banking, test score comparability, item selection (in terms of
deciding on the CAT entry point, determining the exit point and test length, as well
as balancing content and item exposure) and a number of actual CALT development
projects. Alderson (2007) also provided some quick deﬁnitions and a brief discussion
of the advantages of CALT as well as a brief description of the DIALANG CALT project
that he has been involved with (for more on the DIALANG project, see Alderson, 2005;
Alderson & Huhta, 1995).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
80
Other articles have addressed the more technical aspects of CAT in language
testing. For example, McNamara (1999) discussed the ﬁt of CAT with performance
assessment applications, as well as method effects and the ideological/social
implications of CAT. Eignor (1999) tackled a number of major issues in CAT, that is,
dealing with complex test speciﬁcations; item exposure; and IRT modelling of testlets.
Linacre (1999) described a measurement approach for simplifying complex constructs
like reading comprehension in a way that balanced psychometric and psychological
concerns. Luecht (1999) analysed two L1 reading CAT simulations differently using
Rasch model in the ﬁrst study and three-parameter item response theory (IRT) in the
second; the author concluded that the three-parameter IRT did not do better than the
Rasch model and that, practically speaking, the Rasch model is simpler and can be
performed with smaller samples. Zumbo and MacMillan (1999) discussed the Eignor,
Linacre and Leucht papers mentioned above with the goal of linking the views of
researchers from different disciplines on CAT. In addition, Mislevy, Chapelle, Chung and
Xu (2008) took the idea of adaptivity beyond Rasch statistical techniques by broadening
the dimensions of adaptability (after Levy, Behrens & Mislevy, 2006) to include what
they discussed as claim status, observation status and locus of control. In the process,
they described speciﬁc examples of tests that exhibited various combinations of these
three dimensions.
For more information on general trends in CAT see C.A.T. Central: A Global Resource
for Computerized Adaptive Testing Research and Applications at: www.psych.umn.
edu/psylabs/catcentral/
Computer versus traditional testing formats
A number of authors have also continued comparing CBLTs with traditional testing
formats. Choi, Kim and Boo (2003) compared the validity of PBLT and CBLT by
examining content and construct validity using corpus linguistic techniques (correlation,
ANOVA and conﬁrmatory factor analysis) ﬁnding that the CBLT and PBLT versions
of their proﬁciency test were comparable. Coniam (2006) compared the efﬁcacy and
reliability of CBLT and PBLT for testing listening, ﬁnding that the CBLT version was
somewhat easier than the P&P version and that the overall correlation of .76 between
the two versions was high enough to support the value of the CBLT for low-stakes
decisions. Sawaki (2001) compared PBLT with CBLT for reading ability by exploring
the relationships between mode of presentation and reading ability, in the process,
identifying a wide variety of factors that should be considered in future research on
this topic.
In a different vein, Kenyon and Malabonga (2001) compared examinees’ attitudes
towards what they called computerized oral proﬁciency instruments (COPIs) and more
traditional simulated oral proﬁciency instruments (SOPIs). Fifty-ﬁve examinees took
both a COPI and a SOPI and several Likert scale attitudes/perceptions questionnaires.
The results indicated that some examinees felt the COPI was easier than the SOPI,
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 81
while others felt that the SOPI was a better measure of ‘real-life conversation’ (p. 80),
but overall, the COPI and SOPI were rated similarly. (Also see comments on this article
in Norris, 2001 and the response in Kenyon, Malabonga & Carpenter, 2001).
Web-based language testing
At least four papers have focused on WBLTs or IBLTs. Fulcher (1999) described an
effort to lighten the placement testing burden on teachers by having students take the
multiple-choice grammar subtest online.This pilot study focused on format bias against
those who lack computer familiarity, and, similar to the studies in the previous section,
Fulcher compared the WBLT with a P&P version, especially in terms of technology
effects on test validity.
Roever (2001) began by deﬁning WBLT and how it differed from CBT and describing
the many possible types of WBLTs ranging from low-tech to high-tech. He then
focused on low-tech WBLTs (because they are more practical) in terms of item types,
validation concerns and the special issues involved in online CATs. He also discussed
the advantages of WBLTs (time and place ﬂexibility, empowerment of anyone with
a computer and affordability) and their limitations (cheating, item exposure, the
presence of the answers in the JavaScript, data storage requirements, getting data
into spreadsheet format, server failure and browser incompatibility). He ended by
advocating what he called stakes-driven decisions (pp. 90–1) and brieﬂy described
some potential areas for future WBLT research.
Bernhardt, Rivera and Kamil (2004) investigated the practicality of a Web-based
approach for college-level placement testing in German and Spanish with a speciﬁc
focus on the beneﬁts for articulation between secondary and tertiary studies. Their
conclusions were positive: the WBLT provided reliable and valid decisions, easy access
to the test for students, fewer scheduling bottlenecks and effective individualized
placement decisions.
Alderson’s (2009) review of the TOEFL iBT brieﬂy discussed the history of this test
and described the reading, listening, speaking and writing sections in some detail. He
then turned to discussion of the existing reliability and validity studies, and concluded
that the test developers had made serious efforts to create positive washback on the
website and in the accompanying materials. Along the way, he was critical of the fact
that the test is linear (i.e., everyone completes the items in order) and not computer-
adaptive. However, he concluded that theTOEFL iBT is a ‘major step forward in testing
language proﬁciency for academic purposes’ (p. 630).
Interface architecture
A number of authors have addressed the issue of interface design or architecture,
by which they typically mean the ways CBLTs ﬁt with human capacities and needs.
Fulcher (2003) described three phases of CBLT development in detail: (a) planning
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
82
and initial design, (b) usability testing and (c) ﬁeld testing and ﬁne tuning. Chapelle
and Douglas (2006) brieﬂy described a different framework for designing CBLTs that
included: an activity selection process, presentation process, response processing and
summary scoring process (pp. 75–7).
In a cluster of studies, building on Fulcher’s (2003) work, Garcia Laborda (2007b)
evaluated the PLEVALEX platform for CBLT against Fulcher’s model, while considering
three sets of issues: designing prototypes (hardware and software issues), designing
interfaces (navigation, page layout, toolbars, controls, text, text colour, icons, graphics
and multimedia) and other design considerations (delivery systems, score retrieval,
data storage and distribution, test rubrics, computer familiarity, piloting, reliability
and internal and external validity). These factors also ﬁgured into the interface
validation investigation presented in Garcia Laborda and Magal-Royo (2007). Garcia
Laborda (2009) brieﬂy considered issues of navigation, page layout, toolbars and
controls, text, text color, icons and graphics in the PREVALEX and PAU platforms in
comparison to the CB IELTS andTOEFL iBT. Garcia Laborda, Magal-Royo, Macario de
Siqueira Rocha and Fernandez Alvarez (2010) set out to design an ergonomic interface
for testing both oral and written English; they described the trialing, the experiment
and the design process of the PLEVALEX, as well as a questionnaire, which led them
to conclude that the ‘PLEVALEX design was potentially valid for language testing’
(p. 390), that even students with limited computer experience could use the system,
and that the combination of piloting and consulting with computer specialists was
beneﬁcial.
Test takers’ experience with CBLT
Interface architecture has to do with how examinees experience a CBLT. Perhaps
that is why the examinee experience has also come under investigation. Brown and
Iwashita (1996) examined the effects of language background on item difﬁculty in a
CALT for Japanese. Based on item data from 1,400 English and Chinese speakers
learning Japanese, the results showed that the item difﬁculties were quite different
for these two groups of examinees, which illustrated and reinforced what language
testers have long known: a test, CAT or otherwise, is not valid in-an-of-itself, but rather
the scores on a test may be more-or-less valid for a speciﬁc purpose in a particular
context with speciﬁc examinees (p. 205).
Kirsch, Jamieson, Taylor and Eignor (1998) investigated the effects of computer
familiarity among TOEFL examinees. The results of a computer-familiarity scale
developed by the researchers were compared with various background variables and
examinees’ P&PTOEFL scores.The authors concluded that examinees from Japan and
Africa were more likely to need computer familiarization training than other examinees,
that word processing skills seemed generally to be adequate for writing courses in
the United States and that the computer familiarity questionnaire usefully helped in
identifying students who needed help with computers.
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 83
Taylor, Jamieson, Eignor and Kirsch (1998) further analysed subsets of the same
data from 613 computer-familiar examinees and 556, who were computer-unfamiliar.
A series of elaborate ANCOVAs were performed with the scores on the CBT TOEFL
items (after a CBT tutorial) as the dependent variable, TOEFL P&P as a covariate,
computer familiarity as the independent variable and gender and reason for testing
as moderator variables. The researchers found no meaningful relationship between
computer familiarity and performance on CBTTOEFL items when language ability was
controlled and examinees were provided with a CBT tutorial.
Gorsuch (2004) used retrospective interviews, post-test questionnaires and
observation log data from six students to investigate the effects of various sources
of error variance on the reliability of a CBLT for listening. Drawing on the literature,
Gorsuch constructed a model containing a large number of systematic and random
sources of error including test method, testing conditions and examinee-attribute
factors. Her list of error sources was comprehensive and interesting in its own right.
Three other papers were related tangentially to the topic of experience with CBLTs.
Jones (2004) reported on two studies that investigated the effects of written or picture
annotations, or both on vocabulary learning, ﬁnding beneﬁcial effects on vocabulary
scores for these annotations and attributing the effects to the possibility of reviewing
information repeatedly in different modalities. Among other things,Yu and Lowe (2007)
conducted interviews and questionnaires with students and English teachers to study
the attitudes of these stakeholders to the CEOTs test and how their attitudes affected
their language learning (more on this study below). Macario de Siqueira, Martínez-
Sáez, Sevilla-Pavón and Gimeno-Sanz (2011) described the current computer testing
situation in Spain as well as the PAU/PLEVALEX testing system and reﬂected on an
analysis of quantitative data from more than 200 students and their teachers, which
indicated that students and teachers generally had ‘very positive attitude toward this
mode of learner assessment’ (p. 665).
CBLT training for teachers
Garcia Laborda and Magal-Royo (2009) observed that many teachers may not be
adequately equipped to deal with issues like the computer familiarity discussed in the
previous section. In response, they surveyed the attitudes of 26 teacher trainees at
the end of a 20-hour in-service training course in computer technology that included
familiarizing them with computer testing tools as well as with the process of creating
an online test and administering the test itself. The results indicated that most of the
trainees had positive reactions to the training, but still lacked the conﬁdence to use
computers for testing in their own classrooms.
Garcia Laborda and Litzler (2011) described the training of a group of 24 English
teachers to determine the feasibility of implementing an online university entrance
examination in Spain, speciﬁcally with regard to whether the teachers ultimately
changed their routines, teaching methods and attitudes towards computer assessment
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
84
technology. They concluded that teachers should be helped to understand: how
computers can be useful assessment tools, their own limitations with regard to these
tools, the need to stay up-to-date with these tools and the existence of internet sites
where they can draw on other teachers’ experiences.
CBLT content
Chalhoub-Deville (2001) pointed out that actual implementations of CBTs and CATs in
the real world had come up short. Citing Christensen (1997), she focused on the idea
of disruptive technology, which was technology that changes how we conceptualize
and apply our (testing) procedures. She ﬁnished by arguing for more innovative testing
procedures which she calls ‘disruptive applications’.
Garcia Laborda, Bakieva, Gonzalez-Such and Sevilla Pavon (2010) brieﬂy considered
the content of the internet-based Spanish University Entrance Examination (PAU).Their
goal was to diminish the effects of the computerized test delivery system.To that end,
they described and analysed the characteristics of a new test item taxonomy (including
reading, writing, listening and speaking items/tasks).
By far the most common approach to CBLT content has been to consider the
separate issues of computer assessment of vocabulary, speaking or oral skills, writing,
listening and reading.
Computer assessment of vocabulary
The last chapter of Reed (2000), which considered ‘the potential of computers to
contribute to vocabulary analysis and assessment’ (p. 223), was much more about
vocabulary analysis than assessment, though the various forms of analysis that Reed
discussed may prove important for the development of vocabulary CBLTs. Laufer and
Goldstein (2004) developed bilingual (English-Hebrew and English-Arabic) CBLTs of
English vocabulary size and strength; piloted the test in a P&P version on 435 EFL
learners; demonstrated (using Guttman scaling) that a hierarchy exists in vocabulary
strength; in the process, provided clear descriptions of the four different item types
in their vocabulary CBLT. Jones (2004) primarily explaind two studies of the effects of
written and picture annotations on vocabulary learning, but in the process, he described
four different CBLT vocabulary tests that he developed. Other articles discussed
elsewhere in this chapter included vocabulary subtests tangentially: Meunier (1995),
Choi, et al. (2003) and Bernstein, Barbier, Rosenfeld and de Jong (2004).
Computer assessment of speaking or oral skills
Yu and Lowe (2007) evaluated the validity of a spoken English CBLT in China. Based on
questionnaire and interview data from students and teachers, they examined reactions
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 85
to the test and how it affected language learning, ways that construct and consequential
validities were sometimes at odds and how CBLTs offer a solution to problems of
negative backwash. Larson (2000) argued for using CBLTs for oral skills by discussing
the beneﬁts of such testing, arguing for their feasibility and describing Brigham Young
University’s Testing software for oral language tests. Garcia Laborda (2010) examined
the effects of audiovisual clues on semi-direct interviews in CALT for speaking with
the goal of furnishing a theoretical approach for using computers to provide audiovisual
clues that supply context in semi-direct interviews in a Spanish University entrance
examination and thereby improve examinee’s scores. Blake, Wilson, Cetto and Pardo-
Ballester (2008) explained how they administered the 20-minute Versant for Spanish
oral test (including phone delivery and automatic scoring) to both classroom and
distance-learning students. Bernstein et al. (2004) described how they developed and
validated an Automatic Spoken Spanish Test (ASST). Chapelle and Chung (2010) also
addressed issues important to CBLT speaking by exploring progress that had been
made in natural language processing and automatic speech recognition/processing.
Other articles that contributed secondarily to the discussion of oral skills assessment
included Kenyon and Malabonga (2001), Norris (2001), Kenyon, Malabonga and
Carpenter (2001), Bernstein, et al. (2004), Garcia Laborda (2007a), Alderson (2009) and
Garcia Laborda, Magal-Royo, et al. (2010).
Computer assessment of writing
Dikli (2006a) deﬁned automated essay scoring (AES) ‘as the computer technology that
evaluates and scores . . . written prose’ (p. 4). She discussed the advantages of AES
systems in terms of cost, time, reliability and generalizability of scores, and provided
an overview of available approaches to AES. She also described Project Essay Grader,
Intelligent Essay Assessor, E-rater, CriterionSM, IntelliMetric, MY Access! and the
Bayesian Essay Test Scoring System in terms of who developed each, the scoring
techniques involved, the main foci, instructional applications and the number of training
essays required. Dikli (2006b) also described automated essay scoring systems, but
only covered four of the six included in the 2006a article.
Chodorow and Burstein (2004) evaluated the relationships between several versions
of the E-rater automated scoring system forTOEFL essays and holistic scores assigned
by human raters. They found that an early version called E-rater99 accounted for little
variance in the holistic human scores beyond that predicted by essay length. However,
the later E-rater01 version performed much better because it included topical content
measures as well as vocabulary complexity and diversity measures. Attali and Burstein
(2006) described E-rater (version 2) and how it was different from previous versions,
especially in terms of alternative forms reliability and validity (i.e., correlations with
human raters). Chodorow, Gamon and Tetreault (2010) examined the use of Criterion
and ESL Assistant. Warschauer and Ware (2006) described My Access!, Criterion and
Holt Online Essay Scoring in terms of the companies that produced these programs,
the software engines, the evaluation mechanisms and the types of scoring/feedback.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
86
In addition, Weigle (2002) devoted a few pages in her book’s last chapter
(pp. 231–7) to the issues of writing assessment and technology including coverage
of how technology affects writing, automatic computer scoring of writing and the
gap in technology. Chapelle (2001) also devoted a few pages to CBLT for writing
(pp. 109–11).
Finally, for readers interested in L2 writing, the L1 literature on computer-
based writing assessment may prove interesting (see e.g., the Computers and
Composition journal archived at http://computersandcomposition.candcblog.org/
html/archives.htm).
Computer assessment of listening and reading
With regard to CBLTs for listening and reading, three sources included both listening
and reading, while others focused on one or the other. Dooey (2008) explored the
relative effects of technology on the testing of listening and reading on the CB IELTS.
Choi et al. (2003) included reading and listening subtests in their study, but it was
focused on comparing the effectiveness of PBLT versus CBLT. Chapelle (2001) devoted
a few pages to CBLTs for listening (pp. 108–9) and reading (pp. 105–08, pp. 111–13).
With regard to listening alone, Dunkel (1999b) detailed the process of developing a
listening CALT for Hausa. Gorsuch (2004) focused on the effects of a variety of sources
of error variance on the reliability of a CBLT for listening. Coniam (2006) reported
research that compared the efﬁcacy and reliability of CBLT and PBLT for testing
listening. And ﬁnally, Alderson (2009) described the listening subtests of the TOEFL
iBT in his review of that test.
With regard to reading alone, Young, et al. (1996) described the development of a
CALT for ESL reading comprehension based on a program called HyperCAT. Sawaki
(2001) used a reading test to compare the effectiveness of PBLT with CBLT. In the
process, she effectively reviewed and compared a number of research studies on the
testing of reading. And ﬁnally, Alderson (2000b) brieﬂy addressed various aspects of
CBLT for reading in his book (pp. 351–4).
Perhaps the single largest concentration of articles on CBLTs for reading is the
Calhoub-Deville (1999) edited collection. In that book, Grabe (1999) brieﬂy discussed
CAT in his extensive literature review centred on the reading proﬁciency construct.
Alderson (1999) additionally connected reading constructs and reading assessment
with special attention to the reading construct/assessment problems raised by
Bernhardt (1999) and Grabe (1999) and a particular focus on addressing the 15
dilemmas posed by Grabe (1999). Larson (1999) discussed the pros and cons of CAT
with speciﬁc reference to developing an L2 reading CAT for Russian. Chapelle (1999)
argued that reading theory and testing issues must both be considered in developing
CALTs for reading comprehension. She posited inference as the place where the two
sets of concerns converge, arguing that theory needs to be applied to test design and
that contextual factors must also be accounted for in the process of developing CAT
reading tests. Eignor (1999), Linacre (1999), Luecht (1999) and Zumbo and MacMillan
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 87
(1999) provided technical discussions of CAT issues and were tangentially related to
reading comprehension in some places.
Example CBLTs
One very noticeable change in the literature on CBLT since Brown (1997) is that a
relatively large number of papers have described actual CBLT development projects.
Among those, I include the 12 example CBLT projects in Table 5.3. Some of these
papers have been cited above because they covered areas discussed elsewhere, but
they all share the fact that they describe actual CBLT development projects.
Notice in Table 5.3 that the examples are organized alphabetically by language and
author. Note also that there are three papers for English (two EFL and one ESL), two
for French, one each for Hausa and Russian, three for Spanish, one for Spanish and
German, and the last for fourteen different European languages. These tests were
clearly developed for university level students, though they did cover a wide variety
of testing purposes (including achievement, diagnostic, placement and proﬁciency
testing as well as articulation/admissions), skill areas (including grammar, listening,
reading, speaking, vocabulary, writing, pragmatics and appropriacy, abbreviated as
G, L, R, S,V,W, P and A, respectively, inTable 5.3) and computer testing types (including
CBLT, CALT, IBLT, IBLT and automatic scoring). All of this indicates that a good deal of
CBLT development is occurring around the world primarily at the university level.
In the process of reviewing this literature, I came across a number of commercially
available tests. Though these tests have not all appeared in academic papers, I feel
obliged to list some of these and point to where more information can be obtained:
(a) ALTA Language Testing Services (including tests for English, Spanish and 90 other
languages, as well as for Medical English, translation, interpretation) available at www.
altalang.com/language-testing/, (b) Versant (including tests for English, Spanish, Arabic
and aviation English) available at www.versanttest.com/ and (c) Language Testing
International (apparently including commercial tests in 64 languages, government
tests in 73 languages and academic tests in 64 languages all available with varying
options from telephone and computerized versions of ACTFL and ILR OPI to a variety
formats of writing, reading and speaking formats) available at www.languagetesting.
com/home.cfm.
CBLT tools and resources
Finally, a number of articles have appeared that have examined tools and resources
useful for developers of CBLTs. The most general of these is Godwin-Jones (2001)
which explored computerized testing tools, internet applications, test authoring tools,
the outlook for CBLTs and useful resources (including testing resources on the internet;
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
88
TABLE
5.3
Papers
describing
actual
CBLTs
and
their
development
Citation
Language
Test
name
Level
Purpose
of
test
Skills
Test
type
Papandima-Sophocleous
(2008)
English
(EFL)
NEPTON
University
Placement
GRVW
IBLT/CBLT/
CALT
hybrid
Young,
Shermis,
Brutten
&
Perkins
(
1996
)
English
(ESL)
Reading
Comp
Test
University
Not
clear
R
CALT
Yu
&
Lowe
(
2007
)
English
(EFL)
CEOTS
University
Achievement
Oral
CBLT
Burston
&
Monville-Burston
(
1995
)
French
French
CAT
University
Placement
G
CALT
Laurier
(
1999
)
French
French
CAPT
University
Placement
GLRVA
CALT
Dunkel
(
1999b
)
Hausa
Hausa
CAT
University
Proﬁ
ciency
L
CALT
Larson
(
1999
)
Russian
R-CARPE
University
Proﬁ
ciency
R
CALT
Larson
&
Hendricks
(
2009
)
Spanish
Part
of
CLIPS
University
Diagnostic
GW
IBLT
Zabaleta
(
2007
)
Spanish
SPT
University
Placement
GLPRV
CBLT
Bernstein,
Barbier,
Rosenfeld
&
de
Jong
(
2004
)
Spanish
SST
University
Proﬁ
ciency
LS
CBLT
with
automatic
scoring
Bernhardt,
Rivera
&
Kamil
(
2004
)
Spanish/
German
GPT/SPT
University
Articulation/
Admission
GV
IBLT
Alderson
&
Huhta
(
2005
)
14
European
DIALANG
Mostly
university
Diagnostic
GLRVW
IBLT
Alderson
&
Huhta
(
2005
)
14
European
DIALANG
Mostly
university
Diagnostic
GLRVW
IBLT
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 89
related institutions and organizations; existing CBLTs; available online practice tests;
online CBLTs; as well as CBLT development tools and templates).
Polio (2001) provided a review of an online trial version of Test Pilot, which is a system
for authoring and administering tests or surveys online server (currently available at
www.clearlearning.com/). Winke and MacGregor (2001) provided a review of Hot
Potatoes (currently available at http://hotpot.uvic.ca/index.php), which is a program that
helps teachers create online exercises (or assessment activities) by using templates
supplied by the program. Franco, Bratt, Rossier, Gadde, Shriberg, Abrash and Percoda
(2010) brieﬂy reviewed the literature on speech recognition and then provided good
exposure for their product by describing features of Stanford Research Institute (SRI)
International’s EduSpeak® system (www.speechatsri.com/products/eduspeak.shtml)
speech recognition and pronunciation scoring software development tool in terms
of their strategy for scoring pronunciation at the phrase level or higher. Burstein,
Chodorow and Leacock (2003) also provided excellent exposure for an Educational
Testing Service product called CriterionSM. They described CriterionSM as an online
essay evaluation system (for general information: www.ets.org/criterion) and evaluated
the degree to which CriterionSM was sufﬁciently accurate to provide useful feedback
(see also Chodorow & Burstein, 2004; Chodorow, et al., 2010).
Conclusions
As the reference list below will attest, the CBLT literature since Brown (1997) has been
spread out over many journals and books. In addition, it has grown considerably in
volume: only 29 of the 96 references in Brown (1997) were focused directly on CBLT,
while 87 of the 89 references in the present chapter are directly related to CBLT.
As mentioned above, Brown (1997) found that the CBLT literature had covered:
(a) how to use an item bank, (b) how to use new technologies, (c) how to build
computer-adaptive tests and (d) how effective computers are in language testing. In
the interceding years the literature seems to have moved well beyond the How to . . .
topics covered earlier to new topics. First, a number of papers, chapters and books
have periodically provided overviews of the CBLT literature. That was not previously
common. While CBLT delivery issues like CALT were discussed at the how- to
level, today, the discussion of CALT appears to be considerably more sophisticated
and in-depth. In addition, while the computer vs traditional testing formats studies
continue to be conducted, topics like WBLT, interface architecture, the test takers’
experience with CBLT and CBLT training for teachers are entirely new. As for CBLT
content issues, much of the literature appears to now focus on the issues involved
in testing the various components of language like vocabulary, speaking or oral skills,
writing, listening and/or reading with a particular concern for automatic scoring of
spoken and written responses. Moreover, a fairly large number of example CBLTs are
actually being developed and described in the literature along with the variety of tools
and resources that have increasingly become available for CBLT development.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
90
Brown (1997) examined the education literature on CBT for clues about the future
directions that research on CBLT might take. Since CBT was focusing primarily on
computer-adaptive testing (CAT), I predicted that future research in language testing
might tend towards addressing ten questions about computer-adaptive language
tests (CALTs). To some degree I was correct. However, I was also wrong. I fear that
my assumption was that the general educational testing research was always ahead
of language testing research and that CBLT research would therefore follow in the
footsteps of CBT/CAT research. Instead, what has happened is that, while there was
some work on CALT, CBLT also moved into practical and useful directions, perhaps
relying on the general CBT literature to sort out the more technical issues of CALT.
However, in all fairness, Brown (1997) also predicted a number of other areas
that CBLT might usefully pursue including (a) testing in intelligent teaching systems,
(b) testing on the internet, (c) using speech and handwriting recognition, (d) scoring
and analysing speech and writing samples and (e) developing alternative psychometric
models that take advantage of the power of computers to analyse more complex
information (p. 53). Three out of ﬁve of those earlier predictions appear to have come
true: (b), (c) and (d) are areas that have burgeoned in the intervening years. The other
two, (a) and (e) are areas in which research and development would still beneﬁt the ﬁeld.
Clearly, the CBLT literature has pretty much gone its own way which makes sense given
that the language part of language testing would naturally lead to a certain expertise and
interest in topics like speech recognition and automatic scoring of writing.
In sum, CBLT is not a new area of research, but in recent years, it has clearly
been growing and generating a good deal of excitement – perhaps because it allows
language testers to respond to changes in the language teaching ﬁeld, especially in
teaching methodologies, using strategies never before available, and to do so much
faster, more practically and in ways that are more closely aligned to what and how
students are learning in their language classrooms.
References
Alderson, J. C. (1999). Reading constructs and reading assessment. In
M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency
(pp. 49–70). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2000a). Technology in testing: The present and the future. System, 28, 593–603.
— (2000b). Assessing reading. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2005). Diagnosing foreign language proﬁciency. London: Continuum.
— (2007). Computer-adaptive language testing. In S. Granger (Ed.), Optimizing the role
of language in technology-enhanced learning (pp. 1–3). Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium:
Integrated Digital Language Learning.
— (2009). Test review: Test of English as a Foreign Language: Internet-based Test (TOEFL
iBT®). Language Testing, 26(4), 621–31.
Alderson, J. C., & Huhta, A. (2005). The development of a suite of computer-based
diagnostic tests based on the Common European Framework. Language Testing, 22(3),
301–20.
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 91
Attali, Y., & Burstein, J. (2006). Automated essay scoring with e-rater® V.2. Journal of
Technology, Learning, and Assessment, 4(3), 1–30.
Bernhardt, E. (1999). If reading is reader-based, can there be a computer-adaptive test of
reading? In M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading
proﬁciency (pp. 1–10). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bernhardt, E. B., Rivera, R. J., & Kamil, M. L. (2004). The practicality and efﬁciency of
Web-based placement testing for college-level language programs. Foreign Language
Annals, 37, 356–66.
Bernstein, J., Barbier, I., Rosenfeld, E., & de Jong, J. (2004). Development and validation
of an automatic spoken Spanish test. In InSTIL/ICALL 2004 symposium on computer
assisted learning, NLP and speech technologies in advanced language learning
systems, Venice, Italy, 17–19 June 2004, ISCA Archive.
Blake, R., Wilson, N. L., Cetto, M., & Pardo-Ballester, C. (2008). Measuring oral proﬁciency
in distance, face-to-face and blended classrooms. Language Learning & Technology,
12(3), 114–27
.
Brown, A., & Iwashita, N. (1996). Language background and item difﬁculty: The
development of a computer-adaptive test of Japanese. System, 24(2), 199–206.
Brown, J. D. (1997). Computers in language testing: Present research and some future
directions. Language Learning and Technology, 1(1), 44–59.
— (2009). Computers in language testing: Present research and some future directions. In P
.
Hubbard (Ed.), Computer assisted language learning: Critical concepts in linguistics, Volume
IV: Present trends and future directions in CALL (pp. 115–37). NewYork: Routledge.
Burstein, J., Chodorow, M., & Leacock, C. (2003). CriterionSM online essay evaluation: An
application for automated evaluation of student essays. Proceedings of the ﬁfteenth
annual conference on innovative applications of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. Acapulco, Mexico.
Burston, J., & Monville-Burston, M. (1995). Practical design and implementation
considerations of a computer adaptive foreign language test: TIIE Monash/Melbourne
French CAT. CALICO Journal, 13(1), 26–46.
Chalhoub-Deville, M. (Ed.) (1999). Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading
proﬁciency. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2001). Language testing and technology: Past and future. Language Learning &
Technology, 5(2), 95–8.
Chalhoub-Deville, M., & Deville, C. (1999). Computer adaptive testing in second language
contexts. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 19, 273–99.
Chapelle, C. (1999). From reading theory to testing practice. In M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.),
Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency (pp. 150–66). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Chapelle, C. A. (2001). Computer applications in second language acquisition. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Chapelle, C. A., & Chung, Y.-R. (2010). The promise of NLP and speech processing
technologies in language assessment. Language Testing, 27(3), 301–15.
Chapelle, C. A., & Douglas, D. (2006). Assessing language through computer technology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chodorow, M., & Burstein, J. (2004). Beyond essay length: Evaluating e-rater®’s
performance on TOEFL® essays. TOEFL Research Reports #73. Princeton, NJ:
Educational Testing Service.
Chodorow, M., Gamon, M., & Tetreault, J. (2010). The utility of article and preposition
error correction systems for English language learners: Feedback and assessment.
Language Testing, 27(3), 419–36.
Choi, I.-C., Kim, K. S., & Boo, J. (2003). Comparability of a paper-based language test and
a computer-based language test. Language Testing, 20(3), 295–320.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
92
Christensen, C. (1997). The innovator’s dilemma: When new technologies cause great
ﬁrms to fail. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School.
Coniam, D. (2006). Evaluating computer-based and paper-based versions of an
English-language listening test. ReCALL, 18(2), 193–211.
Dikli, S. (2006a). An overview of automated scoring of essays. Journal of Technology,
Learning, and Assessment, 5(1).
— (2006b). Automated essay scoring. Turkish Online Journal of Distance Education, 7(1),
article 5 (no page numbers).
Dooey, P
. (2008). Language testing and technology: Problems of transition to a new era.
ReCALL, 20(1), 21–34.
Douglas, D. (2000). Assessing languages for speciﬁc purposes. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Douglas, D., & Hegelheimer, V. (2007). Assessing language using computer technology.
Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 27, 115–32.
Dunkel, P
. (1999a). Considerations in developing or using second/foreign language
proﬁciency computer-adaptive tests. Language Learning & Technology, 2(2), 77–93.
— (1999b). Research and development of a computer-adaptive test of listening
comprehension in the less-commonly taught language Hausa. In M. Chalhoub-Deville
(Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency (pp. 91–121).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Eignor, D. (1999). Selected technical issues in the creation of computer-adaptive tests
of second language reading proﬁciency. In M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in
computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency (pp. 167–81). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Franco, H., Bratt, H., Rossier, R., Gadde, V. R., Shriberg, E., Abrash, V., & Percoda,
K. (2010). EduSpeakR
: A speech recognition and pronunciation scoring toolkit for
computer-aided language learning applications. Language Testing, 27(3), 401–18.
Fulcher, G. (1999). Computerising an English language placement test. English Language
Teaching Journal, 53, 289–99.
— (2003). Interface design in computer-based language testing. Language Testing, 20(4),
384–408.
Garcia Laborda, J. (2007a). ON THE NET: Introducing standardized EFL/ESL exams.
Language Learning & Technology, 11(2), 3–9.
— (2007b). From Fulcher to PLEVALEX: Issues in interface design, validity and reliability in
internet based language testing. CALL
-EJ Online, 9(1).
— (2009). Interface architecture for testing in foreign language education. Procedia Social
and Behavioral Sciences, 1, 2754–7
.
— (2010). Contextual clues in semi-direct interviews for computer assisted language
testing. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 2, 3592–5.
Garcia Laborda, J., & Litzler, M. F
. (2011). Constraints in teacher training for computer
assisted language testing implementation. International Education Studies, 4(2), 13–17
.
García Laborda, J., & Magal-Royo, T. (2007). Diseño y validación de la plataforma
PLEVALEX como respuesta a los retos de diseño de examines de lenguas para ﬁnes
especíﬁcos. Journal of the European Association of Languages for Speciﬁc Purposes,
14, 79–97
.
— (2009). Training senior teachers in compulsory computer based language tests.
Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 1, 141–4.
Garcia Laborda, J., Bakieva, M., Gonzalez-Such, J., & Sevilla Pavon, A. (2010). Item
transformation for computer assisted language testing: The adaptation of the Spanish
University Entrance Examination. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 2,
3586–90.
RESEARCH ON COMPUTERS IN LANGUAGE TESTING 93
Garcia Laborda, J., Magal-Royo, T., Macario de Siqueira Rocha, J., & Fernández Álvarez,
M. (2010). Ergonomics factors in English as a foreign language testing: The case of
PLEVALEX. Computers & Education, 54, 384–91.
Garrett, N. (1991). Technology in the service of language learning: Trends and issues.
Modern Language Journal, 75, 74–101.
Godwin-Jones, B. (2001). Emerging technologies: Language testing tool and technologies.
Language Learning & Technology, 5(2), 8–13.
Gorsuch, G. (2004). Test takers’ experiences with computer-administered listening
comprehension tests: Interviewing for qualitative explorations of test validity. CALICO
Journal, 21(2), 339–71.
Grabe, W. (1999). Developments in reading research and their implications. In M.
Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency
(pp. 11–47). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gruba, P
., & Corbel, C. (1997). Computer-based testing. In C. Clapham & D. Corson (Eds.),
Language testing and assessment (pp. 141–9). Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic.
Jamieson, J. (2005). Trends in computer-based second language assessment. Annual
Review of Applied Linguistics, 25, 228–42.
Jones, L. (2004). Testing L2 vocabulary recognition and recall using pictorial and written
test items. Language Learning & Technology, 8(3), 122–43.
Kenyon, D. M., & Malabonga, V. (2001). Comparing examinee attitudes toward
computer-assisted and other oral proﬁciency assessments. Language Learning &
Technology, 5(2), 60–83.
Kenyon, D. M., Malabonga, V., & Carpenter, H. (2001). Response to Norris commentary.
Language Learning & Technology, 5(2), 106–8.
Kirsch, I., Jamieson, J., Taylor, C., & Eignor, D. (1998). Familiarity among TOEFL
examinees. TOEFL Research Report 59. Educational Testing Service, Princeton, NJ.
Larson, J. W. (1999). Considerations for testing reading proﬁciency via computer-adaptive
testing. In M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading
proﬁciency (pp. 71–90). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2000). Testing oral language skills via the computer. CALICO Journal, 18(1), 53–66.
Larson, J. W., & Hendricks, H. H. (2009). A context-based online diagnostic test of
Spanish. CALICO Journal, 26(2), 309–23.
Laufer, B., & Goldstein, Z. (2004). Testing vocabulary knowledge: Size, strength, and
computer adaptiveness. Language Learning, 54(3), 399–436.
Laurier, M. (1999). The development of an adaptive test for placement in French. In
M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency
(pp. 122–35). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Levy, R., Behrens, J. T., & Mislevy, R. J. (2006). Variations in adaptive testing and their
online leverage points. In D. D. Williams, S. L. Howell & M. Hricko (Eds.), Online
assessment, measurement, and evaluation (pp. 180–202). Hershey, PA: Information
Science.
Linacre, J. M. (1999). A measurement approach to computer-adaptive testing of
reading comprehension. In M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive
testing of reading proﬁciency (pp. 182–95). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Liu, M. L., Moore, Z., Graham, L., & Lee, S. (2003). A look at the research on
computer-based technology use in second language learning: A review of the literature
from 1990–2000. Journal of Research on Technology in Education, 34(3), 250–73.
Luecht, R. (1999). The practical utility of Rasch measurement models. In M.
Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency (pp.
196–215). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
94
Macario de Siqueira, J., Martínez-Sáez, A., Sevilla-Pavón, A., & Gimeno-Sanz, A. (2011).
Developing a Web-based system to create, deliver and assess language proﬁciency
within the PAULEX Universitas Project. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 15,
662–66.
McNamara, T. F
. (1999). Computer-adaptive testing: A view from outside. In
M. Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency
(pp. 136–49). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Meunier, L. E. (1994). Computer adaptive language tests (CALT) offer a great potential for
functional testing. Yet, why don’t they? CALICO Journal, 11(4), 23–40.
— (1995). Human factors in a computer assisted foreign language environment: The
effects of gender, personality and keyboard control. CALICO Journal, 13(2&3), 47–72.
Mislevy, R., Chapelle, C. A., Chung, Y.-R., & Xu, J. (2008). Options for adaptivity in
computer-assisted language learning and assessment. In C. A. Chapelle, Y.-R. Chung
& J. Xu (Eds.), Towards adaptive CALL: Natural language processing for diagnostic
language assessment (pp. 9–24). Ames, IA: Iowa State University.
Norris, J. M. (2001). Concerns with computerized adaptive oral proﬁciency assessment.
Language Learning & Technology, 5(2), 99–105.
Ockey, G. J. (2009). Developments and challenges in the use of computer-based testing
for assessing second language ability. Modern Language Journal, 93, 836–47
.
Papadima-Sophocleous, S. (2008). A Hybrid of a CBT- and a CAT-based New English
Placement Test Online (NEPTON). CALICO Journal, 25(2), 276–304.
Polio, C. (2001). Review of Test Pilot. Language Learning & Technology, 5(2), 34–7
.
Prapphal, K. (2008). Issues and trends in language testing and assessment in Thailand.
Language Testing, 25, 127–43.
Reed, J. (2000). Assessing vocabulary. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Roever, C. (2001). Web-based language testing. Language Learning & Technology, 5(2),
84–94.
Sawaki, Y. (2001). Comparability of conventional and computerized tests of reading in a
second language. Language Learning & Technology, 5(2), 38–59.
Taylor, C., Jamieson, J., Eignor, D., & Kirsch, I. (1998). The relationship between computer
familiarity and performance on computer-based TOEFL test tasks. TOEFL Research
Report 61. Princeton, NJ: Educational Testing Service.
Warschauer, M., & Ware, P
. (2006). Automated writing evaluation: Deﬁning the classroom
research agenda. Language Teaching Research, 10(2), 1–24.
Weigle, S. C. (2002). Assessing writing. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Winke, P
., & MacGregor, D. (2001). Review of Hot Potatoes. Language Learning &
Technology, 5(2), 28–33.
Young, Y., Shermis, M. D., Brutten, S. R., & Perkins, K. (1996). From conventional to
computer-adaptive testing of ESL reading comprehension. System, 24, 23–40.
Yu, X., & Lowe, J. (2007). Computer assisted testing of spoken English: A study to
evaluate the SFLEP college English oral test in China. In F
. Khandia (Ed.), 11th
CAA international computer assisted assessment conference: Proceedings of the
conference on 10th and 11th July 2007 at Loughborough University (pp. 489–502).
Loughborough Leicestershire, UK: Loughborough University.
Zabaleta, F
. (2007). Developing a multimedia, computer-based Spanish placement test.
CALICO Journal, 24(3), 675–92.
Zumbo, B., & MacMillan, P
. D. (1999). An overview and some observations on
the psychometric models used in computer-adaptive language testing. In M.
Chalhoub-Deville (Ed.), Issues in computer-adaptive testing of reading proﬁciency (pp.
216–28). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
6
Materials design in CALL:
Social presence in online
environments
Mirjam Hauck and Sylvia Warnecke
Summary
Over a decade ago Johnson (1999) pointed out that the potential of technology to
transformlanguageteachingwasthemainassumptionunderlyingCALLcourseand
material design and that conceptual frameworks which emphasize the social, cultural
and discursive implications of using computers in teaching could actually provide far
more appropriate guidance. One such framework highlighting the importance of social
presence (SP) in text-based computer conferencing is Garrison, Anderson and Archer’s
(2000) Community of Inquiry (CoI) model which forms the backdrop to this chapter. We
present and evaluate materials developed for a training program preparing tutors for
teaching English for Academic Purposes (EAP) online. As the materials are speciﬁc to
the environment rather than the subject, they are readily transferable to the learning
and teaching of any language as well as other content in technology-assisted contexts.
Our aim is to illustrate the impact of material design on generating SP
. To that effect
we explore the dynamics among participants as a result of their task performances
during the training. Our analysis is based on postings to the tutor training forum and
the tutor group fora (groups of learners and their respective tutors). It suggests that
SP as deﬁned by Kehrwald (2008), namely the ability of the individual to demonstrate
his/her availability for and willingness to participate in interaction, is the central driving
force for a successful CoI such as the trainees and the student groups with whom they
subsequently embarked on the EAP online journey. However, drawing on Morgan’s
(2011) critique of Garrison et al. (2000) we argue for a fundamental re-consideration
of the CoI’s tripartite approach which separates SP from cognitive and teaching
presence. We propose Galley, Conole and Alevizou’s (2011) ‘community indicators’ as
an alternative framework for online education in general and CALL in particular with SP
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
96
as the guiding principle for material and task design for both (language) teaching and
learning and teacher education purposes.
Introduction
In Levy and Stockwell’s (2006) seminal volume CALL Dimensions, the term CALL
materials encompasses tasks, software, courseware, websites, online courses,
programs and learning environments to create ‘a sense of continuity between CALL
and language teaching more generally . . . especially in relation to language-learning
materials design and development’ (p. 3).This approach allows the authors to subsume
everything from tasks as the starting point for materials development to online learning
environments in which tasks are carried out under the ‘materials umbrella’. They
see this as the logical continuation of Breen, Candlin and Waters’ (1979) distinction
between content and process materials in relation to communicative language teaching
highlighting the need to develop both.While the former centre on data and information,
the latter provide ‘guidelines or frameworks for the learners’ use of communicative
knowledge and abilities’ (Breen et al., 1979; cited in Levy & Stockwell, 2006, p. 3).
Online learning environments are perceived as such a framework within which learners
can use and practise their communicative skills.
We see tasks and materials designed to foster the development of SP as sitting on
the interface of the content and process dichotomy: on the one hand they deal with
reﬂective content such as what motivates us to engage and participate online; on the
other they draw on the affordances of the environment to help shape and guide online
communication and interaction and thus SP as deﬁned by Kehrwald (2008).
In CALL SP tends to be perceived as a secondary element, mainly relevant
in terms of meeting the learners’ social and affective needs, and as a facilitator of
cognitive processes or deep learning.This understanding is informed by the CoI model
developed by Garrison et al. (2000) in the context of the ‘Study of the Characteristics
and Qualities of Text-Based Computer Conferencing for Educational Purposes’ project
(http://communitiesoﬁnquiry.com). The model distinguishes between cognitive, social
and teaching presence – as relatively unvarying entities – and remains to date one of
the most commonly referenced frameworks for investigations of formal higher-level
online education.
Donaldson and Kötter (1999), for example, see the signiﬁcance of SP in creating
a ‘far more effective and enjoyable’ environment (p. 543). Lomicka and Lord (2007)
propose that SP ‘may facilitate the success of cognitive presence’ and that it ‘engages
groups in interaction and communication and thus sustains and furthers critical
skills’ (p. 211). And Arnold and Ducate (2006) conclude that social activity might even
outweigh cognitive density, especially if tutor presence is missing.
The study presented here questions such isolating and hierarchical views of the
social and cognitive dimensions of computer-mediated collaborative (language) learning
in a CoI and moves SP right into the centre of the learning and teaching process. Our
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 97
ﬁndings assert the role of SP as the conditio sine qua non for learning in CMC contexts
and thus as a core e-literacy skill rather than a facilitating element. The chapter further
explores aspects of task design that promote the development of SP skills such as
sending, reading and interpreting SP clues. We start with a brief introduction to SP
with a focus on asynchronous teaching and learning contexts as this also applies to
the present study. This is followed by an outline of the project which informs this
contribution – set-up, methodology, participants, task design and content – as well
as the approach to data collection and evaluation. Next we present and discuss our
ﬁndings and argue for an alternative framework for CoIs in general and CALL and
CMC-based language learning and teaching in particular. In this framework SP is at the
centre of material and task design for both tutor training and language learning and
teaching purposes.
Social presence
As early as 1995, Harasim et al. drew our attention to the fact that students are
more engaged in the learning process when working in discussion boards. Lamy and
Goodfellow(1999)foundthatsuchdiscussionboardsencourage‘reﬂectiveconversation’
and Mason and Weller (2000) stress their importance in terms of the social aspects
of learning. These observations are reinforced by Davis and Thiede (2000) who found
that discussion forums support the development of discourse-related awareness and
the ability to abide by social norms. Bacon (1995) suggests that the key to success
of asynchronous interaction is ‘sustained interaction between participants’ (Bacon
1995; cited in Lomicka & Lord, 2007
, p. 210) thus shifting the focus slightly away
from the qualities of interaction to the need for participation per se as a ﬁrst step
towards interaction.These studies emphasize the signiﬁcance of the social dimension
of CMC.
Yet, the actual concept of SP was motivated by the attempt to distinguish between
mediated (e.g., telephone) and non-mediated (face-to-face) interactions and deﬁned
by Short, Williams and Christie (1976, p. 65) as ‘the degree of salience of the other
person in a mediated interaction and the consequent salience of the interpersonal
interaction’. It was seen as a characteristic of the medium and its affordances where
the ‘capacity to transmit information about facial expression, direction of looking,
posture, dress and non-verbal vocal cues, all contribute to the Social Presence of a
communications medium’ (Short et al., 1976, p. 65). Subsequently, SP was used to
theorize communications media and became closely related to media richness theory
(Daft & Lengel, 1986). Unsurprisingly, from this perspective text-based CMC was
conceived of as a ‘lean’ medium in comparison to face-to-face interaction (Spears,
Lea & Postmes, 2001, p. 605) Humans’ capacity to adapt to lean media and to develop
strategies to compensate for reduced cues was foregrounded by later theories of
communications media (Walther, 1992, 1994). Along these lines Gunawardena (1995)
argued that although text-based CMC afforded only low social contextual cues,
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
98
participants’ perception of the medium would primarily be based on their sense of
community and that relationships could be social, active and interactive.Thus SP began
to be increasingly viewed in terms of the quality of the communication rather than as
an inherent quality of the media (for a more detailed overview, see Satar, 2010).
However, to this day a shared deﬁnition of SP remains a desideratum. In line with
SP studies that explore the skills of those engaged in interaction we deﬁne SP as
the ability of the individual to demonstrate his/her availability for and willingness to
participate in interaction (Kehrwald, 2008).
Kehrwald’s (2008, 2010) case study of SP – drawing on text-based and mainly
asynchronous interactions – belongs to a minority of investigations that approach SP
from the learner’s perspective. The majority of deﬁnitions and research to date reﬂect
researchers’ understanding of SP and the ways in which it is established and manifests
itself. Kehrwald explores SP in four online postgraduate education courses using
dialogic interviews and focus groups. He concludes that SP is ‘subjective projections
of self . . . into technology mediated environments, subjective assessments of others’
presence and assessments of the subject’s relations with others’ (Kehrwald, 2010,
p. 41). This explains the importance he attaches to the learners’ ability to send and
read SP cues and the way in which these skills are learned collaboratively ‘through
seeing and experiencing how others project themselves into the environment, how
others interact with one another and how others react to their personal efforts to
cultivate a social presence’ (p. 47). Kehrwald’s understanding of SP is in line with that
of Rourke, Garrison, Anderson and Archer (1999), namely ‘the ability of learners to
project themselves socially and affectively into a community of inquiry’ (p. 50). Their
framework for analysing SP comprises of three dimensions – affective, interactive and
cohesive – and is brieﬂy presented next.
Social presence within a Community of Inquiry
The CoI framework developed by Garrison et al. (2000) distinguishes between cognitive
presence, social presence and teaching presence (see Figure 6.1).
Cognitive presence is described as ‘the extent to which the participants in any
particular conﬁguration of a community of inquiry are able to construct meaning
through sustained communication’ (Garrison et al., 2000, p. 89). Social presence is
understood as the projection of learners’ personal characteristics into a CoI through
use of emotional expression, open communication and various means to establish
group cohesion. Cognitive presence is perceived as the core element of successful
learning while SP supports critical thinking through meeting the learners’ social and
affective needs, thus providing indirect support for cognitive presence. It is accepted
as a direct facilitator when sustaining interaction throughout a course is of signiﬁcant
importance, as, for example, in the case of distance education. Teaching presence is
reﬂected in appropriate design of learning materials, facilitation of online discussions,
and subject area (‘directed’) instruction, and seen as supporting and directing cognitive
and social procedures.
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 99
Morgan (2011) conﬁrms that ‘much of current research that adopts the community
of inquiry framework has largely focused on the social presence dimension’ (p. 1).
Rourke et al. (1999) developed a content analysis framework for the interpretation of
learner group interactions via online discussion boards in order to support their theory
with empirical data.This framework has been the basis for most content analysis work
carried out in SP research to date including language learning and language teacher
education studies. Others like, for example, Swan (2002) and Lomicka and Lord (2007)
have built on and expanded the original framework of 15 equally weighted SP indicators
grouped under the three aforementioned categories. The version proposed by Swan
(2002) is shown in Table 6.1:
COGNITIVE
PRESENCE
TEACHING PRESENCE
(Structure/Process)
SOCIAL
PRESENCE
Supporting
Discourse
EDUCATIONAL
EXPERIENCE
Communication Medium
Setting
Climate
Selecting
Content
FIGURE 6.1 Community of Inquiry by Garrison et al. (2000).
TABLE 6.1 Swan’s (2002) social presence indicators
Affective Interactive Cohesive
Paralanguage Greetings and salutations Acknowledgement
Emotion Vocatives Agreement/disagreement
Value Group reference Approval
Humour Social sharing Invitation
Self-disclosure Course reﬂection Personal advice
Self-disclosure Course reﬂection Personal advice
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
100
CALL studies based on the SP indicators framework
In a small-scale study at the UK Open University (OU), Satar (2007) used the original
template to analyse text-based synchronous CMC discussions between English
language teachers and native speakers of English and found that some indicators
such as self-disclosure, emotions and continuing a thread, were challenging to apply.
Furthermore, in her qualitative analysis of the interactions, Satar comments on the
signiﬁcance of other factors such as peer status, empathy, discourse markers and
politeness, some of which also came to the fore in our study.
Arnold and Ducate (2006) analysed asynchronous CMC interactions in English of
overall 23 FL teacher trainees subdivided into groups of four or ﬁve members. The
trainees’ reﬂection on teaching materials and their practical applications in the classroom
indicated that they felt a sense of community, albeit to varying degrees across groups.
Content analysis of a total of 27 discussion threads revealed that social activity
outweighed cognitive density which the authors tentatively attribute to the intentional
lack of tutor/trainer presence. Participant postings were graded along a cognitively
oriented continuum ranging from mere theoretical knowledge, via connecting theory
to individual experiences, to interactivity and – at the most advanced stage – to active
contribution. Emotional SP indicators were hardly present in the exchanges, which the
authors explain by the fact that the grading scheme discouraged any non-task-related
exchanges.Yet, they registered a high volume of interactive and cohesive SP indicators
contributing to a sense of community within the groups which – in turn – was conducive
to cognitive activity.
Lomicka and Lord (2007) investigated the use of asynchronous interaction tools –
reﬂective journals kept either individually, in email pairs or on a group discussion
board – by a total of 14 FL teacher trainees in three groups documenting their
classroom experiences during a four-month academic term. The main aim of the
project was to design a methodology course for future FL teaching assistants.
They examined how SP was co-constructed in different media and found that ‘the
expression of feeling, vulnerability, self-constructive comments, complements,
encouragement, asking questions, advice/opinion, agreement, salutations, and the
use of names’ (pp. 223–4) were used more often in all groups than any other SP
indicators. Lomicka and Lord surmise that SP ‘may facilitate the success of cognitive
presence’ and that it ‘engages groups in interaction and communication and thus
sustains and furthers critical skills’ (p. 211).They conclude that future research needs
to explore how social presence is developed, under what conditions and through
what media and to establish which indicators are particularly prominent in a ‘socially
present online community’.
Batstone, Stickler, Duensing and Heins (2007) compared face-to-face and distance FL
tutorials conducted via audio-graphic conferencing in terms of the quality of interaction.
They observed interactive and cohesive SP indicators across all tutorials, but signiﬁcant
variations in relation to affective indicators which they see as a consequence of task
type, tutoring style and learner behaviour. Although part of their study does – strictly
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 101
speaking – not fall into the category of mediated interactions discussed here, that is,
those of an asynchronous nature, we have included it as they highlight the interrelation
between instances of affective SP and task design. Our study conﬁrms the inﬂuence
of materials and tasks on SP (see below, ‘Some Findings’).
All of these investigations come to the conclusion that SP has an impact on both
form and content of CMC-based learning. Yet, at the same time, they continue to rank
SP as secondary to cognitive density or cognitive presence as deﬁned by Garrison et al.
(2000) in the CoI framework. One reason might be that most published research deals
with the SP construct from the researchers’ or teacher-as-researchers’ perspective.
Although the latter applies to the present chapter too, our study differs in that it
focuses at the same time on the learners’ perspective – tutors as learners on a training
program.
The project: Set-up, participants,
methodology and task design
Set-up, participants and methodological approach
The training followed an iterative process with participants working on a series of
activities before transferring the insights gained to their individual EAP tutor groups.
This was followed by feedback and joint reﬂection on their experiences in the tutor
training forum. Table 6.2 provides an overview of the project.
Apart from experiential modelling which aims at immersing future tutors ‘in the
use of the technologies, while at the same time providing them with the freedom and
framework within which to experience the practical application of the theory in their
own learning’ (Hoven 2007
, n.p.), the program was also inﬂuenced by Allwright and
Hanks’ (2009) understanding of ‘exploratory practice’:
Third-party research in general cannot meet our purposes, and practitioner
research, the form of AR [action research], has not yet taken us far enough away
from the third-party model to overcome these limitations. . . . The ﬁrst two parties
for research on education are the teachers and the learners. (Allwright & Hanks,
2009, p. 145)
Exploratory research originated in the 1990s in an attempt to bridge the teacher-
researcher gap. Allwright (2003) focuses on the social nature of teaching and the
need for all participants to be aware of the processes involved. Similarly Allwright
and Hanks (2009) stress that language learning and teaching and research are social
processes and thus call for learners as ‘key practitioners’ without excluding teachers.
Instead, both should be considered ‘practitioner colleagues’ with the teacher playing a
collegial role in helping learners develop as researchers of their own practices and as
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
102
‘practitioners of learning’ (p. 146). This collegial role was taken on by one of the two
authors of this chapter who endeavoured throughout the training to ask questions
to trigger participants’ reﬂection on the processes they were involved in rather than
providing ready-made answers. The way in which the tasks were introduced reﬂects
this approach.
Task design and execution
In Lomicka and Lord’s (2007) study variations in the manifestation of SP are attributed
to different task types, structured versus unstructured tasks in particular.They propose
that ‘further research might . . . examine results from different types of tasks (other
than journaling) that are prevalent in FL teacher training’ (p. 212). This study picks up
the baton and introduces a different task design. While Lomicka and Lord’s (2007
,
p. 213) tasks were ‘weekly journal entries [without any] particular topic that students
were required to discuss, though they were instructed to reﬂect on their experiences
in their classrooms each week’, the activities in this training program all followed the
same structure. Each week the participants carried out three tasks (see Figure 6.2 for
week 3, task 1).
TABLE 6.2 ProjectoverviewofSwan’s(2002)adaptationoftheSPtemplate
developed by Rourke et al. (1999)
Aims Tutor familiarization with their peer group, the teaching materials, the
learning and teaching environment (a bespoke version of Moodle)
and forms of moderation in asynchronous settings (forum and wiki).
Duration Six weeks in total whereby four weeks overlapped with the tutors
starting to teach the module.
Design approach
(methodology)
The program was inspired by
a. Hoven’s (2006) ‘experiential modelling approach’ where the tools
and processes the tutors were expected to use in their teaching
were experienced beforehand from a learner’s point of view;
b. Allwright’s (2003) and Allwright and Hanks’ (2009)
understanding of ‘exploratory practice’ or inclusive practitioner
research which allowed us to foreground the learners’ (tutors as
learners) perspective.
Participants Nine tutors representing a multifaceted CoI with many being new
to the British Open University, new to teaching in an online only
context, but with some experience of using email for teaching and
learning purposes, yet also new to the unique blend of students
(native speakers of English and speakers of English as an additional
language). Seven participants were new to tutoring via a forum.
Students A similarly mixed cohort of adult learners in terms of academic
histories, linguistic backgrounds, range of e-literacy skills and
objectives for studying beyond EAP online.
Aims Tutor familiarization with their peer group, the teaching materials, the
learning and teaching environment (a bespoke version of Moodle)
and forms of moderation in asynchronous settings (forum and wiki).
Students A similarly mixed cohort of adult learners in terms of academic
histories, linguistic backgrounds, range of e-literacy skills and
objectives for studying beyond EAP online.
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 103
Here the trainees were asked to consider Salmon’s (2002) patterns of online participation
(see Figure 6.3).
The following posting is an example response to week 3, task 1:
As a student, I am deﬁnitely a rabbit: I live online and I check forums and emails
as soon as I come home and again several times a day. I like participating and I
especially love receiving mail . . .
As a tutor, I tend to be very active at the beginning to greet the students, value
their contributions and also to try to stimulate the interaction. Later, I try to
post something at least every week to show that it is worth checking the forum
regularly . . .
The list [of animals] is very useful because it suggests possible solutions to every kind
of problem. However, it is based on the idea that students’ patterns of participation
are linked to their attitude towards forums/the Internet or their personality. While
these attitudes certainly play a part, students often say that they don’t participate
because they are very busy, they have technical problems, they cannot see the
relevance or usefulness of the forum activities or because participation is not
compulsory. (Discussion Thread (DT)7
, Contribution (C)2, Trainee (T)4, 01/02/2010)
It is a representative contribution insofar as the trainees soon realized that Salmon’s
recipe-type approach to participation ignores many of the factors at play in online
(language) learning and teaching contexts.
Week 3 Task 1 - Patterns of participation: Forum
Dear all,
This week we will consider two key issues with regard to the tutor role in asynchronous
communication: motivation and participation. We want to find out to what extent our work can tip the
balance either in favour or against participation and whether what [participant] calls 'let students get
on with it' is something we need to take on board and to communicate to our learners.
Now:
• Think about your own patterns of participation (either as a moderator or as a student). How
often, when, why, how intensively do you participate?
• Then have a look at the attached document which is a collation of common patterns of online
participation as categorized by Salmon (2002).
• Which one applies to you? Is there anything you have learned that you want to practise in
order to help your group become / be / stay (inter)active?
FIGURE 6.2 Task on patterns of participation.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
104
Type Behaviours E-moderator response
The wolf Visits once a week, lots of activity,
then disappears again until next
week, or even the week after!
Nudge wolf by e-mail to encourage to visit
again and see responses that s/he has
sparked off.
The elephant Steady – visits most days for a short
time.
Congratulate. Ask elephant to encourage
and support others – especially mouse
and squirrel.
The squirrel Always catching up: completes two
weeks in one session then
disappears again for some time.
Nudge squirrel by e-mail to suggest life is
easier with more regular access. Check on
other commitments.
Provide regular summaries and archiving
to enable squirrel to catch up easily and
contribute.
The mouse Visits once a week, reads and
contributes little.
Check that mouse can access all
messages. Check language difficulties.
May need boost of confidence. Give
specific role.
The mole Inclined to post disembodied
comments in a random way.
Try to include relevant comments from
mole in summaries and invite resp onses.
Needs support and e-stroking.
The rabbit Lives online, prolific
message writer, responds very
rapidly.
Rabbit may need counselling to hold back
and let others shine through. Give
structured roles such as summarizing
after a plenary.
The stag Tendency to dominate discussion at
certain times.
Invite stag back frequently. Offer a
structured and specific role.
The magpie Steals ideas without acknowledging. Foster a spirit of acknowledgement and
reinforcement of individual ideas. Warn
magpie directly if necessary.
The dolphin Intelligent, good communicator and
playful online.
Ensure dolphin acknowledges and works
well with others. May annoy participants
who think it’s all very serious.
FIGURE 6.3 Patterns of participation (© G. Salmon (2002). Etivities: The key to active
online learning. Kogan Page, p. 171).
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 105
Closely related to reﬂections on patterns of participation was the task that instigated
exchanges about learner motivation (see Figure 6.4 for week 3, task 2).
The ﬁrst section of each task related to the participants’ previous teaching experience,
in face-to-face, online only or blended contexts.The second part asked them to engage
with research ﬁndings or practitioner recommendations and their underlying rationale.
In part three they reﬂected on their current experiences both in the EAP online
classroom with their students and as part of the tutor trainee group, and tried to relate
these to the scholarly input as well as their own teaching background.
Throughout the training the moderator-colleague linked all tasks and the resulting
exchanges with each other referring back to participant contributions to earlier
discussion threads and explaining how these relate to the new topic at hand. This
can be described as a ‘storyline approach’, where participants are continuously made
aware of the interrelationship between the activities they carry out, the training
program as a whole, their past and current teaching practice and their own and others’
understanding of the processes and dynamics they are engaged in. Interweaving the
trainees’ activities during the training, their past experiences and joint conclusions
reﬂects Appel and Lantolf’s (1994, p. 437) observation that ‘performance [in a task]
FIGURE 6.4 Task on motivation.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
106
depends crucially on the interaction between individual and task’. It also shows ‘how
tasks – or rather the activities that comprise participants’ task performances – serve
as a form of mediation that can bring about learning’ (Ellis, 2003, p. 185). The way
in which the teacher trainees interpreted the task in their task performances, also
highlights Coughlan and Duff’s (1994) point that researchers as well as teachers should
not conceptualize task as an absolute term or constant in research since ‘the activity it
generates will be unique’ (p. 191).
The topics covered during the training ranged from getting to know the module
website, sharing icebreaker ideas and challenges associated with motivation and
participation (see Figures 6.2 and 6.4) to error correction and assessment of forum
contributions. Next, we explain our approach to analysing the interactions that took
place.
Data collection and evaluation
Similar to Arnold and Ducate (2006) we carried out a content analysis of the trainees’
asynchronous interactions – in our case postings to the training and tutor group for
a – through the lens of the CoI framework (Garrison et al., 2000), more speciﬁcally by
applying Swan’s (2002) adaptation of the original coding template for SP indicators (see
Table 6.1). We soon realized though that a categorization of the forum contributions
according to SP indicators was unhelpful for our purpose as most postings not only
presented us with a dense mix of indicators it also led us away from their actual
content. The following example illustrates this:
. . . I think . . . these kinds of classiﬁcations [Figure 6.3] have to be used with caution
. . . I guess our forum identity is as multifaceted as any other (what is a multilingual
forum identity like???) which I think T8 (sorry if misattributing but need names in
front of me if I’m to remember them – should have taken notes when reading
forum) alluded to in discussions about whether our behaviour on a forum is similar
to our behaviour elsewhere. (DT7
, C12, T6, 2/02/2010)
The extract reﬂects a number of obvious SP indicators such as the use of affective
‘conventional expressions of emotion, or unconventional expressions of emotion,
includes repetitious punctuation’ (Lomicka & Lord 2007
, p. 212). At the same time
this trainee shows ‘self-disclosure’ when talking about patterns of behaviour outside
the class and expressing a degree of vulnerability. Cohesive ‘addressing or referring
to participants by name’ (Lomicka & Lord 2007
, p. 212) is also present. According to
Swan’s (2002) template and Lomicka and Lord’s (2007) additions the use of expressions
such as ‘I guess’ or the use of punctuation as in‘. . . I think . . .’ cannot be appropriately
classiﬁed. In our view this extract shows a strong ‘interactive’ message, for example
through the link it makes with Salmon’s table – the ‘course reﬂection’ (see Table 6.1).
However, according to established SP indicators the highly personal way in which other
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 107
participants are invited to follow T6’s unﬁnished thought process, cannot be identiﬁed
nor labelled with existing SP indicators.Yet, on the basis of our observations we would
claim that this is one of the core features of SP and explains its potential impact on
text-based online interactions.
The diversity in task performance due to a wide range of academic, cultural and
personal backgrounds is evident in the participants’ individual approaches. Thus
the focus of our study was not task completion but what was happening while the
trainees were carrying out the tasks, that is, how the affordances of the environment
helped shape communication and interaction and thus SP to gradually emerge in
their exchanges (see introduction). We therefore decided to look at the contributions
to the training forum from a broader perspective to explore how the trainees were
developing awareness of the interactions they were involved in and thus of their own
and others’ SP and its impact. In what follows we summarize and comment on some
of our ﬁndings based on postings to the training forum only.
Some ﬁndings
The many variables that deﬁne the context of this study (see above) illustrate Morgan’s
(2011) exhortation of what we need to keep in mind if we want to understand what
happens in CoIs. Morgan ﬁnds it surprising that although the CoI framework was
developed with distance education in mind, it does not take account of a community’s
various contexts (global and local) and their impact on issues such as power relations,
agency and identity.
The fact that Rourke et al.’s (1999) original SP template was not deemed sufﬁcient,
and that several attempts have been made to distinguish new and different aspects of
SP which acknowledge the inﬂuence of variables such as the affordances of the media,
group dynamics and number of participants (Lomicka & Lord, 2007), peer status and
discourse markers (Satar, 2007) and task type (Batstone et al., 2007) is – in our view –
indicative of this dilemma.
Morgan also stresses that the CoI framework does not take full account of the
sociocultural dimensions of CMC. In the same way as Morgan asserts that within a
‘sociocultural theoretical approach to understanding online course interactions on the
COI framework . . . teaching presence needs to be redeﬁned’ (p. 2), we suggest that
the SP construct needs to be fundamentally reconsidered. Much CMC-based learning
happens in multi-faceted sociocultural contexts, even within one institution, a reality
that is as of yet not acknowledged in the framework and existing attempts to categorize
the many aspects of SP with catalogues of indicators.
Similarly we have found that the CoI does not provide sufﬁcient scope for the
constant shifting of roles, identities and participation patterns characteristic for
computer mediated interactions.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
108
Shifting roles and identities and varying
patterns of participation
To illustrate our observations we have selected data from three participants reﬂecting
the diversity in the group of trainees that formed the CoI in this study and thus also
the complexity highlighted by Morgan (2011). The chosen extracts are related to tasks
1 and 2 in week 3 (see Figures 6.2 and 6.4). Unsurprisingly, these contain the highest
volume of reﬂective comments on the very topic of participation.
T1 was new to teaching her subject online as well as to working at the OU, although
she had been an OU student. She was one of the most active and creative contributors
to the discussions. T2 had some experience with teaching in discussion forums from
tutoring a different OU English language course.T2 infrequently contributed lengthy yet
constructive postings but did not engage in the exchanges as such. T3 had extensive
experience in English language teaching both at a distance and in face-to-face settings.
He was part of the production team of the EAP module and had also experienced
distance learning as an OU student on other modules. T3 joined the discussion
infrequently with encouraging, very informative yet short contributions. The following
is a representative posting from T3:
I ﬁnd my patterns vary quite a lot so cannot ﬁnd one animal that ﬁts perfectly. I think
my messages tend to be short compared to many. . . . (DT7
, C6, T3, 02/02/2010)
The activity outlined in Figure 6.2 triggered a lively exchange about motivation
including reﬂections about the changing nature of participation according to
assigned roles, personal circumstances and/or institutional settings. Here is an
extract from T1:
Hi All,
. . . Some students have posted lots of comments and seem really keen (rabbits?),
whereas others have not yet been seen.
1. In terms of my own participation I think as a student I was probably a bit of a
squirrel. I would look at the forum when I needed help and found it hard to ﬁt it in
to my busy life . . .
2. As a tutor I think I am far more engaged with the forum as I really enjoy the
interaction with the students, even better is when you can read the conversations
they have had with each other without your involvement. I seem to visit quite
frequently (elephant?) . . .
I have made an effort to reply to each student’s introductory message as I wanted to
make sure I had some contact with each of them early on. In my reply I asked further
questions to try to stimulate more participation. I noticed [moderator-colleague] did
this when we started using the [training] and found it very welcoming.
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 109
3. I will be looking out for ways to help the [students] to participate. I wonder, is it
worth showing the list [Figure 6.3] to stimulate discussion about forum use? . . .
(DT7
, C19, T1, 03/02/2010)
The following comments are by T2:
. . . making online activities part of the assessment helps motivate those students
and places those activities at the top rather than the end of the list of priorities . . .
Beyond the assessed activities, theTGF [Tutor Group Forum] is a resource that tutors
can encourage students to use. For example, by creating a constant ‘presence’ in
the TGF (posting something new each week) and replying to students’ posts if no
one else is doing so. However, if your students just don’t want to use the TGF I
don’t see the point in needlessly worrying about it. It’s vital to keep up the online
presence and even in quiet TGFs you’ll see most students are at least reading your
messages.
You can compare low TGF participation rates with a handful of students bothering
to attend tutorials – some people sign up to distance learning because they just
want to get the course materials, read them and get on with the assignments –
they don’t want to be ‘step locked’ into following the course week by week or
having to interact unnecessarily with other students. As an OU student I fall into
this category – I have never attended a tutorial, e-tutorial or posted anything to
a course forum or TGF beyond what is compulsory to pass a TMA [Tutor Marked
Assignment]. (DT7
, C4, T2, 02/02/2010)
T3 also commented:
A quote I ﬁnd interesting is:
‘Students are like themselves, only more so, when online. The chatty ones write
long responses, the worriers modify their messages, the dutiful ones do what
is required reliably but without brilliance, and the irresponsible are conspicuous
by their absence.’ (Hiltz & Meinke, 1989, p. 441). I suspect I am like myself
and perhaps more so online. Decide for yourself how well I do. (DT7, C9, T3,
02/02/2010)
In view of such contributions Salmon’s categorizations of online behaviours and
moderator responses seem rather rigid as they do not take account of the transient
nature of online participation.
Their task performances move the participants well beyond the self as a ‘static
entity’ in online interactions. The examples reﬂect the on-going process of identity
formation depending on ever changing contextual circumstances on the one hand
and insights gained from newly acquired or pre-existing theoretical knowledge on the
other.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
110
The three extracts also highlight the need to distinguish between participatory
literacy as a prerequisite for SP and SP as such, and suggest that what we can
actually train for in CALL teacher education is participatory literacy as deﬁned
by Pegrum (2009, p. 42), that is, ‘digital communicative literacy, which provides
a foundation for online interactions . . . and which facilitates the collaborative
processes at the core of participatory literacy’. Task-based training can achieve this
by systematically raising awareness for SP cues such as the cohesive SP indicator
‘invitation’ in ‘Decide for yourself how well I do’. Such an approach corroborates
Kehrwald’s (2010) understanding of SP as the ability to send and read SP cues
and his assertion that these skills are best acquired collaboratively ‘through seeing
and experiencing how others project themselves into the environment, how others
interact with one another and how others react to their personal efforts to cultivate
a social presence’ (p. 47).
Experiential modelling and exploratory practice
The extracts also hint at the added value of experiential modelling and exploratory
practice in terms of cultivating a SP (see D7
, C19, T1, 03/02/2010, in particular).
Moreover they emphasize the central role of task design and performance as an
opportunity to experience the aforementioned processes, become aware of them
through joint reﬂection and ﬁnally apply them to one’s own practice:
The training we had at the start of the course was just excellent, not just for the
focus on different aspects of VLE and forums and the needs of the online/distance
learner, but also for the model it provided of how to respond to posts. It created
a ‘safe’ environment on the forums; for example, the trainer never made me feel
‘put down’, regardless of the stupidity of my comment or question; I have pinched
phrases she used in her replies in my own responses to students. (End-of-course
survey, question 3, C4, anonymous, 02/10/2010)
This remark suggests a direct link between experiential modelling and SP as the ways
in which others position and reposition themselves in a CoI presents a model which
can be adopted and followed and thus learned. To that effect the moderator-colleague
who ran the training intentionally positioned herself in a variety of ways which – in
turn – allowed her to make shifting of roles and identities the topic of the exchanges.
Other ways in which participants beneﬁted from experiential modelling are apparent in
D7
, C19, 03/02/2010, second point (see above).
How then, can we capture SP as a phenomenon that emerges through task
performance in CMC-based CoIs? As a potential answer we propose the Community
Indicators Framework by Galley et al. (2011).
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 111
The Community Indicators Framework
In order to understand types of user behaviour in online sites such as fora Galley
et al. (2010) reviewed the literature on different frameworks for describing communities
including the CoI model. They suggest that the notion of communities in social and
participatory sites is different as ‘participatory web processes and practices have . . .
opened up new spaces for, and styles of interaction – social spaces which enable
transient, collaborative, knowledge building communities, and the development of
shared . . . interests, goals, content and ideas’ (n.p.).
Based on their review they developed the Community Indicators Framework which
consists of four broad aspects associated with behaviour and attributes of participants,
situational factors and how participants feel. ‘Each of these aspects’ they underline ‘is
interrelated and the whole reﬂects the multifaceted complexity of what we experience
as community’ (see Figure 6.5).
Participation Cohesion
Identity Creative capability
Motivated and driven by a
powerful sense of purpose
Sufficient personal and technical
skill
Accommodates and celebrates
difference
Multiple points of view are
expressed and contradicted or
challenged
Creation of new knowledge and
experience links and patterns
Support and tolerance
Turn taking and response
Emerging leadership hierarchy
Humour, banter and playfulness
Shared resources, ideas and
experiences
Interwoven work and play
Emerging social and facilitative
role structure
Patterns of core group activity
that include pockets of rapid and
energized engagement
Sustained engagement
Established limits, boundaries,
purpose and expectations
Group self-awareness
Shared vocabulary
Identification of existing
knowledge and experience
patterns
FIGURE 6.5 Community Indicators Framework by Galley et al. (2011).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
112
Galley et al. try to reﬂect the organic nature of communities by taking account of the
constant movement and dynamics that link all aspects of the framework. Signiﬁcantly,
the category of identity found its way into the understanding of online communities
and the distinction between teacher and learner has been removed.
We suggest a re-consideration of the SP construct in the light of this framework as
an overarching concept that is both the means and the end of online communication and
interaction and the result of participatory literacy as understood by Pegrum (2009).
Conclusions
Morgan (2011, p. 1) observes ‘that a shift to understanding teaching presence within
a sociocultural perspective has important implications for teaching and design’. In our
view, the same holds true for SP
. On the basis of our study we would argue that tasks
designed to spark collaborative reﬂection on issues related to participation, motivation
and thus SP
, seem particularly well suited to foster SP itself and should therefore
be more systematically trialled and integrated into CALL and CMC-based teacher
education and learner preparation for online interaction. However, as they operate on
a meta-cognitive level and try to raise awareness for the very phenomenon that is at
stake while trainees engage in task performance, such tasks constitute a particular
challenge for all involved. Still, we can claim with some certainty that it was the
participants’ interpretation of tasks designed to trigger exchanges on motivation and
participation that led to reﬂection, discussion and thus learning about the relevance
of SP in online communities and – at the same time – helped SP emerge among the
trainees. By witnessing how others ‘project themselves into the environment, how
others interact with one another and how others react to their personal efforts to
cultivate a social presence’ (Kehrwald, 2010, p. 47) participants gradually acquired the
skill to send, receive and interpret SP cues. They found out about the shifting of roles
and identities which are typical for online learning communities and which – in turn –
allowed them to continually re-conceptualize their position in the online interactions
and to accept the transient nature of their role.
Most of SP research to date is based on text-based and asynchronous CMC
interactions and has largely ignored the inﬂuence of multimodal elements on and skills
needed for the projection of the self via emerging CMC technologies. A signiﬁcant
exception in terms of investigations of SP and emerging CMC technologies is Satar’s
(2010) work which explores SP in online multimodal communication.
The SP literature also largely reﬂects the teacher-researchers’ perspective rather
than the learners’ view. The present study has attempted to bridge the second gap by
applying Allwright and Hank’s (2009) concept of ‘exploratory practice’ where teacher
trainees become researchers of their own learning. A joint way forward for SP training
and research in both asynchronous and synchronous online contexts and echoing
the spirit of open source instructional materials, might be the use of teacher and
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 113
learner ethnographies building on and expanding the ‘storyline approach’ of the study
presented here. Once captured in the shape of an online journal, then repurposed,
customized and integrated into open textbooks or journals for subsequent cohorts of
teacher trainees and/or learners, the exchanges resulting from tasks such as the ones
used in this study could provide the basis for further and new reﬂections, interactions
and evaluations.
References
Allwright, D. (2003). Exploratory practice: Rethinking practitioner research in language
teaching. Language Teaching Research, 7(2), 113–41.
Allwright, D., & Hanks, J. (2009). The developing language learner: An introduction to
exploratory practice. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Appel, G., & Lantolf, J. P
. (1994). Speaking as mediation: A study of L1 and L2 text recall
tasks. The Modern Language Journal, 78(4), 437–52.
Arnold, N., & Ducate, L. (2006). Future foreign language teachers’ social and cognitive
collaboration in an online environment. Language Learning & Technology, 10(1), 42–66.
Bacon, S. (1995). Coming to grips with the culture: Another use of dialogue journals in
teacher education. Foreign Language Annals, 28, 193–207
.
Batstone, C., Stickler, U., Duensing, A., & Heins, B. (2007). Social presence in face-to-face
and online language tutorials. Presented at the BAAL
-CUP Seminar: Spoken online
learning events: The need for a new paradigm in languages research and practice,
Milton Keynes.
Breen, M. P
., Candlin, C., & Waters, A. (1979). Communicative materials design: Some
basic principles. RELC Journal, 10(2), 1–13.
Coughlan, P
., & Duff, P
. (1994). Same task, different activities: Analysis of SLA from an
activity theory perspective. In J. P
. Lantolf & G. Appel (Eds.), Vygotskian approaches to
second language research (pp. 173–94). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Daft, R. L., & Lengel, R. H. (1986). Organizational information requirements, media
richness and structural design. Management Science, 32(5), 554–71.
Davis, B., & Theide, R. (2000). Writing into change: Style shifting in asynchronous
electronic discourse. In M. Warschauer and R. Kern (Eds.), Networked-based language
teaching: Concepts and practice (pp. 87–120). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Donaldson, R. P
., & Kötter, M. (1999). Language learning in cyberspace: Teleporting the
classroom into the target culture. CALICO Journal, 16(4), 531–57
.
Donato, R. (2000). Sociocultural contributions to understanding the foreign second
language classroom. In J. P
. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural theory and second language
learning (pp. 27–50). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ellis, R. (2003). Task-based language learning and teaching. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Galley, R., Conole, G., & Alevizou, P
. (2010). Indicators of community – A framework for
evaluating relational and transient communities on Cloudworks. OULDI workshop
paper, 19 March. Milton Keynes: The Open University.
— (2011). Indicators of community table – Presentation transcript. Retrieved from
www.slideshare.net/OULDI/indicators-of-community-table
Garrison, D. R., & Cleveland-Innes, M. (2005). Facilitating cognitive presence in online
learning: Interaction is not enough. American Journal of Distance Education, 19(3),
133–48.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
114
Garrison, D. R., Anderson, T., & Archer, W. (2000). Critical inquiry in a text-based
environment: Computer conferencing in higher education. The Internet and Higher
Education, 2(2–3), 87–105.
—(2010). The ﬁrst decade of the community of inquiry framework: A retrospective. The
Internet and Higher Education, 13(1–2), 5–9.
Gunawardena, C. N., & Zittle, F
. J. (1997). Social presence as a predictor of satisfaction
within a computer-mediated conferencing environment. American Journal of Distance
Education, 11(3), 8–26.
Harasim, L. Hiltz, S. R., Teles, L., & Turoff, M. (1995). Learning networks: A ﬁeld guide to
teaching and learning online. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hoven, D. (2006). Designing for disruption: Remodelling a blended course in technology
in (language) teacher education. Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Ascilite conference:
Who’s learning? Whose technology? 3–6 December (pp. 339–49). Sydney: University of
Sydney.
— (2007). The affordances of technology for student teachers to shape their teacher
education experience. In M. A. Kassen, R. Z., Lavine, K. Murphy-Judy and M. Peter
(Eds.), Preparing and developing technology-proﬁcient L2 Teachers (pp. 133–62).
CALICO Monograph Series, 6. Texas: CALICO.
Johnson, M. (1999). CALL and teacher education: Issues in course design. CALL
-EJ
ONLINE, 1(2).
Kehrwald, B. (2008). Understanding social presence in text-based online learning
environments. Distance Education, 29(1), 89.
— (2010). Being online: Social presence and subjectivity in online learning. London Review
of Education, 8(1), 39–50.
Kim, E. (2007). Students’ perception of social presence and its inﬂuence on their learning
in an online environment: A case study. In E. Simonson (Ed.), 2007 annual proceedings
(Vol. 1). Presented at the annual convention of the association for educational
communications and technology (pp. 118–24). Anaheim, CA: Nova Southeastern
University.
Lamy, M. N., & Goodfellow, R. (1999). Reﬂective conversation in the virtual language
classroom. Language Learning & Technology 2(2), 43–61.
Levy, M., & Stockwell, G. (2006). CALL dimensions: Options and issues in
computer-assisted language learning. Mahweh, NJ & London: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Lomicka, L., & Lord, G. (2007). Social presence in virtual communities of foreign language
(FL) teachers. System 35, 208–28.
Mason, R., & Weller, M. (2000). Factors affecting students’ satisfaction on a Web course.
Australian Journal of Educational Technology 16 (2), 173–200.
Morgan, T. (2008). The negotiation of teaching presence in international online contexts.
Unpublished dissertation, University of British Columbia.
— (2011). Online classroom or community-in-the-making? Instructor conceptualizations
and teaching presence in international online contexts. Journal of Distance Education,
25(1), 1–15.
Pegrum, M. (2009). From blogs to bombs: The future of digital technologies in education.
Perth: University of Western Australia Press.
Richardson, J. C., & Swan, K. (2003). Examining social presence in online courses in
relation to students’ perceived learning and satisfaction. Journal of Asynchronous
learning networks, 7(1), 68–88.
MATERIALS DESIGN IN CALL 115
Rourke, L., Anderson, T., Garrison, R., & Archer, W. (1999). Assessing social presence in
asynchronous text-based computer conferencing. Journal of Distance Education, 14(2),
50–71.
Salmon, G. (2002). E-tivities: The key to active online learning. Sterling, VA: Stylus
Publishing.
Satar, H. M. (2007). The effects of computer mediated communication on oral language
development. Unpublished MRes dissertation. Milton Keynes: The Open University.
— (2010). Social presence in online multimodal communication: A framework to analyse
online interactions between language learners. Unpublished PhD thesis. Milton
Keynes: The Open University.
Short, J., Williams, E., & Christie, B. (1976). The social psychology of telecommunications.
London: Wiley & Sons.
Spears, R., Lea, M., & Postmes, T. (2001). Social psychological theories of
computer-mediated communication: Social pain or social gain. In W. P
. Robinson &
H. Giles (Eds.), The new handbook of language and social psychology. London:
John Wiley & Sons.
Swan, K. (2002). Building communities in online courses: The importance of interaction.
Education, Communication and Information, 2(1), 23–49.
van Langenhove, L., & Harré, R. (1999). Introducing positioning theory. In R. Harré &
L. van Langenhove (Eds.), Positioning theory: Moral contexts of intentional action
(pp. 14–31). Oxford: Blackwell.
Walther, J. B. (1992). Interpersonal effects in computer-mediated interaction: A relational
perspective. Communication Research, 19(1), 52–90.
— (1994). Anticipated ongoing interaction versus channel effects on relational
communication in computer-mediated interaction. Human Communication Research,
20(4), 473–501.
Wang, J. (1996). Same task: Different activities. Unpublished research report. Pittsburgh,
PA: University of Pittsburgh.
Weir, C. (1988). Communicative language testing. Exeter Linguistic Studies, Vol. 11. Exeter:
University of Exeter.
White, C. (2003). Language learning in distance education. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
PART TWO
CALL learning
environments
Section introduction
Hayo Reinders, Michael Thomas
and Mark Warschauer
Recent years have seen a shift of attention away from the teacher and onto the
learner and the ways in which the learning process, both inside and outside the
classroom, can best be supported. The use of virtual learning environments (VLEs),
blended learning, self-access centres and work-based learning initiatives, are only some
of the manifestations of the desire to broaden language development beyond traditional
settings and into learners’ lives. Technology has played an important role in facilitating
a reconceptualization of the ways in which information can be delivered and shared,
not just from teacher to learner, but also between learners themselves. Technology
has also increased our understanding of the importance of informal learning processes
in education and has led to a recognition of the key role of the wider environment,
including the classroom, the school, the community and informal networks, in the
language learning process (Allford & Pachler, 2007; Conacher & Kelly-Holmes, 2007).
Related to this, in recent years there has been a growing recognition of the importance
of developing in learners the ability to draw on this wider environment, and in this way
to support their lifelong learning.
At the same time, it is clear that both teachers and learners are not always ready to
develop this capacity. More research is needed to establish how learning can best be
supported and how learners can best be prepared for taking responsibility for their own
learning. Similarly, more research is needed that investigates what happens outside
formal education, or in developing low-tech contexts. It is unclear how learners manage
their own learning before and after taking courses, in their workplace, and their daily
lives, and what the role of technology is in these. New, innovative methodologies need
to be developed to better understand the speciﬁc needs of learners, their learning
preferences and the ways their learning can be enhanced.
The chapters in Part Two address some of these concerns by looking at areas of
CALL that go beyond the classroom in isolation and by reviewing technologies that
can help to broaden students’ access to learning opportunities. Distance CALL, as
covered by Marie-Noëlle Lamy, is an example of the range of methods, means and
environments this can occur in. As Lamy argues, distance CALL is diverse in nature;
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
120
it can be delivered entirely online or in a blended form, it can be entirely or only partly
mediated by technology, it can offer ﬂexible as well as structured, open or traditional,
informal as well as formal education (White, 2006). Lamy offers an integrated model of
distance language learning, built around a learning design approach, the presence of an
institutional strategy for distance learning and the development of a distributed learning
environment. Distance CALL is a good example of the ways in which technology can
help to create new contexts for learning and teaching, that require their own methods
and research.
Another example of the way technology creates new contexts for learning is through
telecollaboration. Robert O’Dowd reviews current models and practice of the use of
online communication tools for the development of language and intercultural skills. He
also reviews emerging practice in the application of Web 2.0 tools and environments,
which have led to greater opportunities for multimodal exchange and the development
of new task types (see also, Peterson, 2010). O’Dowd shows how the integration of
telecollaboration into formal education may require a rethinking of teaching practices
and the implications this may have for language learning.
An entirely new environment is offered in many of the virtual words, discussed by
Randall Sadler and Melinda Dooly. In their chapter, they review current research and
practice, showing their potential as well as the various barriers to their use in either
formal of informal education (see for the latter also Schwienhorst, 2007). In the second
part of their chapter they report on a case-study project involving young (6–12 years)
learners building a virtual art gallery. Sadler and Dooly show how the immersive and
collaborative features of the virtual world helped with the children’s development of a
range of literacies. They warn, however, that there is as yet too little understanding of
how learning (and teaching) in virtual worlds works. A great deal more research into the
affordances of these types of learning environments is needed.
Digital games have received a great deal of interest in recent years (Reinders,
2012; Thorne, Black & Sykes, 2009) for their purported potential to motivate students,
increase time on task and encourage collaboration and situated communication. Chun
Lai, Ruhui Ni and Yong Zhao review the use of digital games in language learning and
discuss the potential for adapting or drawing on existing commercial language games.
One of the main challenges in this type of learning environment is to ﬁnd the right
balance between instruction and gameplay and to draw as much as possible on the
affordances inherent in this type of environment.
Similar challenges exist in the area of mobile learning. Glenn Stockwell looks at the
potential for mobile technologies to deliver materials and support the learning process
relatively cheaply, and increasingly powerfully (Chinnery, 2006; Kukulska-Hulme &
Traxler, 2005). Stockwell describes the ways in which mobile technologies have been
researched and used in language education so far. He highlights their role in situated
and distributed learning and their ability to provide learners with instant access to
materials in small units, at times and in places convenient to them. He also cautions,
however, against overly optimistic expectations and reviews the various limitations,
such as limited screen size and students’ reticence in having formal education move
SECTION INTRODUCTION 121
into the informal sphere. He goes on to argue for the need for thorough preparation
and ongoing support when mobile technologies are used. Stockwell concludes
by reviewing a number of emerging trends, such as ubiqitous, location-based and
pervasive learning.
An entirely different perspective is offered by Dafne Gonzalez and Rubena St. Louis,
who remind us of the many cases where technology is not widely available.The ‘digital
divide’ remains in place in parts of the world (Warschauer, 2003). The authors report
on the results of a survey sent out to teachers in low-tech contexts on their use of
technology and the impediments to its implementation. From this they distil a number
of recommendations for the use of CALL in low-tech environments that should be of
beneﬁt to educators around the world.
Each of these chapters describes how technology can help to support learning in
new contexts and in new ways. As a result, we see the emergence of ecologies of
learning that, although related to traditional education in myriad ways, are, also distinct
and that offer new opportunities for learning and teaching. ‘New language learning
environments’ is a term that has recently started to be used to encapsulate all of these
developments (White, 2007). It refers to both the practical environments for learning
and teaching as well as to the (changes in) pedagogy needed to sustain them. The
chapters in this section chart the course for future developments in this area and give
insight into their affordances as well as their constraints on language teaching and
research.
References
Allford, D., & Pachler, N. (2007). Language, autonomy and the new learning environments.
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Chinnery, G. (2006). Going to the MALL: Mobile assisted language learning. Language
Learning and Technology, 10(1), 9–16.
Conacher, J. E., & Kelly-Holmes, H. (Eds.) (2007). New learning environments for language
learning: Moving beyond the classroom? Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Kukulska-Hulme, A., & Traxler, J. (Eds.) (2005). Mobile learning: A handbook for educators
and trainers. London: Routledge.
Peterson, M. (2010). Task-based language teaching in networked-based CALL: An analysis
of research on learner interaction in synchronous CMC. In M. Thomas & H. Reinders
(Eds.), Task-based language learning and teaching with technology (pp. 41–62). London
& New York: Continuum.
Reinders, H. (Ed.) (2012). Digital games in language learning and teaching. Basingstoke:
Palgrave Macmillan.
Schwienhorst, K. (2007). Learner autonomy and virtual environments in CALL. London:
Routledge.
Thorne, S., Black, R., & Sykes, J. (2009). Second language use, socialization, and learning
in internet interest communities and online gaming. Modern Language Journal, 93,
802–21.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
122
Warschauer, M. (2003). Technology and social inclusion: Rethinking the digital divide.
Cambridge: MIT Press.
White, C. (2006). State-of-the-art review article: The distance learning of foreign
languages. Language Teaching, 39, 247–64.
— (2007). Innovation and identity in distance language learning and teaching. Innovation in
Language Learning and Teaching, 1(1), 97–110.
7
Telecollaboration and CALL
Robert O’Dowd
Summary
In the context of foreign language education, ‘telecollaboration’ refers to the
application of online communication tools to bring together classes of language
learners in geographically distant locations to develop their foreign language skills and
intercultural competence through collaborative tasks and project work. The interaction
has traditionally been text-based and asynchronous, however, the recent advances of
Web 2.0 online communication have meant that synchronous oral communication as
well as multimodal exchanges involving combinations of different media are becoming
increasingly popular. This chapter reviews the different models or conﬁgurations of
online intercultural exchange which have been employed in the foreign language
classroom to date and also explores the new options and opportunities which are
emerging from Web 2.0 contexts. We outline the main research ﬁndings related to
this activity as well as its key contributions to foreign language learning. Finally, the
challenges involving the integration of telecollaboration into formal education will be
discussed.
Introduction
One of the major contributions of the internet to foreign language (FL) education
has been its potential to bring language learners into virtual contact with members
of other cultures and speakers of other languages. For example, a class of learners
studying Spanish in the United States can now interact with relative ease with learners
of English in Spain or Mexico using tools such as Skype and email. Exchanges can
also be organized using a lingua franca. For example, classes of English language
learners in Germany, Poland and China can now work together on projects on a daily
basis using a shared workspace such as a wiki or social networking site like Ning.This
application of online communication technologies to bring together language learners in
geographically distant locations to develop their FL skills and intercultural competence
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
124
through collaborative tasks and project work is known as telecollaboration and has
been a popular area of CALL activity and research over the past three decades.
Although the term was originally used in the context of online FL education by
Warschauer in his publication Telecollaboration and the Foreign Language Learner
(1996), the deﬁnition of the activity was not fully delineated until the special
edition of Language Learning & Technology (2003) in which Belz identiﬁed the main
characteristics of FL telecollaboration to be ‘institutionalized, electronically mediated
intercultural communication under the guidance of a languacultural expert (i.e., teacher)
for the purposes of foreign language learning and the development of intercultural
competence’ (2003, p. 2). However, since the emergence of the internet in the
mid-1990s, telecollaborative activity has gone under many different names and it is
perhaps useful to identify them and review their different connotations.
Warschauer’s ﬁrst collection of telecollaborative activities came under the title
of Virtual Connections (1995), while primary and secondary school exchanges
have been referred to as e-pals or key-pals. In more academic contexts, apart from
‘telecollaboration’, terms such as ‘e-tandem’ (O’Rourke, 2007), ‘online intercultural
exchange’ (O’Dowd, 2007; Thorne, 2010) and ‘Internet-mediated Intercultural Foreign
Language Education’ (Belz & Thorne, 2006) have all been used. In France the term
EIEGL (Échanges Interculturels Exolingues en Groupe en Lingue) has been widely
employed (Audras & Chanier, 2008), while in Brazil there is a growing body of work
in this area under the umbrella term of ‘teletandem’ (Telles, 2009). Evidently, each of
these terms tends to carry its own connotations and implications, depending on the
educational context in which it is used. For example, the terminology e-pal or key-pal
stems from the traditional activity of pen pals which linked together young learners
in different countries through letter exchanges. As a result, these terms are generally
used in primary and secondary school contexts and on websites which aim to link
pre-university classes of learners in different countries (see, for example, www.epals.
com/). Meanwhile, Belz and Thorne’s term ‘Internet-mediated intercultural foreign
language education’ was an attempt to highlight the focus on both FL learning and
intercultural exchange, aspects which, they argued, were missing from other terms
such as ‘telecollaboration’ and ‘e-tandem’ (Thorne, 2006, p. 3).
Over the past two decades, telecollaboration has begun to receive a great deal of
attention in the academic literature and in research circles. There have been several
book publications exclusively on the theme (Belz &Thorne, 2006; Dooly, 2008; Guth &
Helm, 2010; O’Dowd, 2006, 2007; Warschauer, 1994) as well as two special editions
of the journal Language Learning & Technology (volumes 7/2 and 15/1). There has also
been important funding made available for research projects dedicated to the area
including the European Commission’s projects Moderating Intercultural Collaboration
and Language Learning (Dooly, 2008), Intercultural Communication in Europe (Kohn &
Warth, 2011) and Integrating Telecollaborative Networks in Higher Education (www.
intent-project.eu/). In the United States signiﬁcant funding has also contributed to
many projects in this area, including the Penn State Foreign LanguageTelecollaboration
Project (Belz, 2003).
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 125
Today, telecollaboration has come to be seen as one of the main pillars of the
intercultural turn in FL education (Thorne, 2006) as it allows educators to engage their
learners in regular, (semi-) authentic communication with members of other cultures
in distant locations and also gives learners the opportunity to reﬂect on and learn
from the outcomes of this intercultural exchange within the supportive and informed
context of their FL classroom. In the words of Kern, Ware and Warschauer (2004),
telecollaboration offers educators the opportunity to ‘use the internet not so much
to teach the same thing in a different way, but rather to help students enter into a
new realm of collaborative enquiry and construction of knowledge, viewing their
expanding repertoire of identities and communication strategies as resources in the
process’ (2004, p. 21). However, it is important to be aware that telecollaboration, in
the words of Hauck and Lewis, ‘takes many forms’ (2007
, p. 250) and is characterized
today by its many different conﬁgurations, aims and task-designs. With this in mind,
this chapter will examine the origins of this activity and will then go on to examine
different telecollaborative conﬁgurations and the signiﬁcant research ﬁndings which
have been reported in the literature. Finally, the chapter will explore how the activity is
being inﬂuenced by Web 2.0 tools and applications and will discuss the practical and
organizational challenges facing educators who wish to integrate this activity into their
teaching contexts.
The origins of telecollaboration
The origins of online intercultural exchanges in FL education can be traced to the
learning networks pioneered by Célestin Freinet in 1920s France and later by Mario
Lodi in 1960s Italy, decades before the internet was to become a tool for classroom
learning (Cummins & Sayers, 1995, pp. 119–36). Freinet made use of the technologies
and modes of communication available to him at the time to enable his classes in the
north of France to make class newspapers with a printing press and to exchange
these newspapers along with ‘cultural packages’ of ﬂowers, fossils and photos of
their local area with schools in other parts of France. Similarly, Lodi motivated his
learners and helped to develop their critical literacy by encouraging them to create
student newspapers in collaboration with distant partner classes.The link between the
principles and activities of these educators and the online work being carried out today
is discussed in detail by Cummins and Sayers (1995) and by Müller-Hartmann (2007).
With the emergence of the internet and local area networks (LANs) in the early and
mid-1990s there was relatively little telecollaborative interaction between classrooms
in different geographical locations as educators did not yet have wide access to partner
classes in other locations and students found it difﬁcult to access the internet outside
of the classroom. In this context, online interaction was limited to learners in one class
using synchronous text-based communication, such as chats, MOOs and LANs, to
interact together in the target language. The text-based nature of the communication
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
126
was seen at the time as being a manner of allowing FL learners to create a ‘conversation
in slow motion’ (Beauvois, 1997
, p. 93) which allowed students time to reﬂect on and
plan their utterances in the FL before committing them to the online interaction with
their classmates.
Nevertheless, some isolated examples of online intercultural exchange in the early
1990s can indeed be found in the literature. Early reports include the work of the
Orillas Network (Cummins & Sayers, 1995), the AT&T Learning Circles (Riel, 1997),
as well as more in-depth research studies into tandem exchanges (Brammerts, 1996;
Eck, Legenhausen & Wolff, 1995). Warschauer’s publication, Virtual Connections:
Online Activities for Networking Language Learners (1995) included a collection
of ‘cross-cultural communication’ projects which reported on students creating
personal proﬁles, carrying out surveys and examining cultural stereotypes with
distant partners. At this stage a number of webpages, including Intercultural E-mail
Classroom Connections (IECC) and E-Tandem, also became available online in order
to link up classrooms across the globe and to provide practitioners with activities and
guidelines for their projects, while practitioners such as Ruth Vilmi in Finland (1994)
and Reinhard Donath (1997) in Germany helped to make the activity better known
by publishing practical reports of their students’ work online. Vilmi’s work focused on
online collaboration between technical students at universities across Europe, while
Donath provided German secondary school teachers with a wide range of resources
and information about how projects could be integrated into the curriculum.
The IECC website also contained a very active discussion forum between 1994 and
1995 where practitioners were often asked by the moderator and IECC co-founder
Bruce Roberts to react to questions related to how online intercultural exchanges could
be integrated into the classroom and what type of tasks were successful in online
exchanges. The responses to these questions reveal not only many of the challenges
which pioneering telecollaborators were facing during the infancy of the internet, but
also demonstrate that many of the key pedagogical principles of the time are still
very relevant for ‘modern-day’ telecollaborating teachers. Practitioners wrote about
the need for adequate time for students to reﬂect on their email interactions as well
as for adequate access to resources to ensure ﬂuid communication between classes.
They also mention the importance of pedagogical leadership on behalf of the teachers
in organizing and exploiting the exchange. Roberts summed up what he considered
to be the key to success in email classroom connections as being the pedagogical
integration of the activity into the class and the learning process: ‘when the email
classroom connection processes are truly integrated into the ongoing structure of
homework and student classroom interaction, then the results can be educationally
transforming’ (1994, n.p.).
Since this initial period, telecollaboration has gone on to become one of the main
pillars of computer-assisted language learning or network-based language teaching
(NBLT) and the contribution of online contact and exchange to the development of
intercultural awareness and intercultural communicative competence (ICC) has been
one of the main areas of research in this area (Müller-Hartmann, 2000; O’Dowd, 2003;
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 127
Ware, 2005). Initially however, the intercultural learning outcomes of such contact
tended to be at times exaggerated or oversimpliﬁed. For example, it was common
to read that intercultural learning could be ‘easily achieved through [email] tandem
learning’ (Brammerts, 1996, p. 122).
Soon however, a more critical and in-depth body of research was producing ﬁndings
which demonstrated the difference between intercultural contact and intercultural
learning. Kern suggested that in the context of online learning ‘exposure and awareness
of difference seem to reinforce, rather than bridge, feelings of difference’ (Kern, 2000,
p. 256). Similarly, Meagher and Castaños (1996) found in their exchange between
classes in the United States and Mexico that bringing the students to compare their
different attitudes and values leads to a form of culture shock and a more negative
attitude towards the target culture. Furthermore, Fischer (1998), in his work on
German-American electronic exchanges, warned that very often students, instead of
reﬂecting and learning from the messages of their distant partners, simply reject the
foreign way of thinking, dismissing it as strange or ‘typical’ of that particular culture.
By the arrival of the new millennium, two main models or approaches to organizing
online intercultural exchange had established themselves in FL classrooms.These will
be outlined in more detail in the following section.
Models of telecollaborative exchange
During the ﬁrst decade of the new millennium, two broad models of telecollaborative
exchange were dominant in FL education. The ﬁrst of these, e-tandem, emerged
from the tradition of tandem language learning which has been widely practised in
many European universities.Tandem learning is essentially a language learning activity
which involves language exchange and collaboration between two partners who are
native speakers of their partners’ target language. Its online equivalent, e-tandem,
thus involves two native speakers of different languages communicating together and
providing feedback to each other through online communication tools with the aim
of learning the other’s language. E-tandem exchanges are based on the principles of
autonomy and reciprocity and the responsibility for a successful exchange generally
rests with the learners, who are expected to provide feedback on their partners’
messages and on their FL performance. In this sense, tandem partners take on the role
of peer-tutors who correct their partners’ errors and propose alternative formulations
in the target language. The role of the class teacher in the e-tandem model is usually
quite limited and learners are encouraged to take on responsibility for ﬁnding their own
themes for discussion, correcting their partners’ errors and keeping a learner diary or
portfolio to reﬂect on their own learning progress. E-tandem began to gain popularity
throughout European universities in the early 1990s and a centralized internet site
with resources, bibliography and guidelines was ﬁnanced by European project funding
during this time (O’Rourke, 2007).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
128
However, in the mid-1990s, the growing interest in online interaction as a tool for
FL education in the United States and Asia and the increased importance attributed
to the social and intercultural aspects of FL learning, led to the emergence of more
complex forms of exchange, which were referred to under the umbrella terms of
telecollaboration (Belz, 2003) and Internet mediated Intercultural Foreign Language
Education (Belz & Thorne, 2006). These terms referred to the different formats and
structures of online intercultural exchange being carried out in classrooms around
the globe which had the dual aims of developing both linguistic competence and
intercultural communicative competence. While the emphasis of e-tandem learning
had often been on supporting student interaction outside of the classroom and to
encourage the development of strategies for learner independence, intercultural
telecollaboration strove to make more ﬂuid connections between students’ online
interaction with their partners and what was being studied and discussed in the
local classrooms. In this sense, students often began project work in class and then
completed it by interacting with their distant partners, or read or viewed the same
cultural materials as their partner class and then engaged in online interaction to
compare reactions and ﬁndings.
Some of the better-known tasks involved requiring students to work together
with their international partners to produce websites or presentations based on
comparisons of their cultures. Belz (2002), for example, reports on a USA-German
exchange which involved developing a website which contained bilingual essays and
a bilingual discussion of a cultural theme such as racism or family. Another popular
intercultural task for telecollaborative exchanges has been the analysis of parallel texts.
Belz deﬁnes parallel texts as ‘linguistically different renditions of a particular story or
topic in which culturally-conditioned varying representations of that story or topic are
presented’ (2005, n.p.). Popular examples of parallel texts which have been used in
telecollaborative exchanges include the American ﬁlm Three Men and a Baby and the
French original Trois homes et un coufﬁn. In German, telecollaborative projects have
engaged learners in the comparison of the German fairy tale Aschenputtel by the
Brothers Grimm and the animated Disney movie Cinderella.
A further intercultural task adapted to telecollaboration was the application of
ethnographic interviewing in synchronous online sessions. O’Dowd (2005) trained a
group of German EFL students in the basic techniques of ethnographic interviewing
and the students then carried out interviews with American informants in the United
States using group-to-group videoconferencing sessions and one-to-one email
exchanges before writing up reﬂective essays on their ﬁndings. The combination of
synchronous and asynchronous tools allowed the students to develop different aspects
of their intercultural competence. Videoconferencing was seen to develop students’
ability to interact with members of the target culture under the constraints of real-time
communication and also to elicit, through a face-to-face dialogue, the concepts and
values which underlie their partners’ behaviour and their opinions. However, email
was employed to both send and receive much more detailed information on the
two cultures’ products and practices as seen from the partners’ perspectives. In
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 129
other words, email was suited to foster cultural knowledge, while videoconferencing
supported the development of students’ intercultural negotiating skills.
Another telecollaborative practice which has become very popular in recent years
is the Cultura exchange (Furstenberg, Levet, English & Maillet, 2001; O’Dowd, 2005).
This intercultural exchange used the possibility of juxtaposing materials from the two
different cultures together on webpages in order to offer a comparative approach
to investigating cultural difference. When using Cultura, language learners from
two cultures (e.g., Spanish learners of English and American learners of Spanish)
complete online questionnaires related to their cultural values and associations.
These questionnaires can be based on word associations (e.g., What three words do
you associate with the word ‘Spain?), sentence completions (e.g., A good citizen is
someone who . . .), or reactions to situations (e.g., Your friend in 22 and is still living
with his parents. What do you say to him/her?). Each group ﬁlls out the questionnaire
in their native language. Following this, the results from both sets of students are
then compiled and presented online. Under the guidance of their teachers in contact
classes, students then analyse the juxtaposed lists in order to ﬁnd differences and
similarities between the two groups’ responses. Following this analysis, students from
both countries meet in online message boards to discuss their ﬁndings and to explore
the cultural values and beliefs which may lie behind the differences in the lists. In
addition to the questionnaires, learners are also supplied with online resources such as
opinion polls and press articles from the two cultures which can support them in their
investigation and understanding of their partner class’s responses. The developers of
this model (Furstenberg, Levet, English & Maillet, 2001) report that this contrastive
approach helps learners to become more aware of the complex relationship between
culture and language and enables them to develop a method for understanding a foreign
culture. It is also important to point out that in this model, as in most telecollaborative
projects, while the data for cultural analysis and learning are produced online, the
roles of contact classes and the teacher are considered vital in helping learners to
identify cultural similarities and differences and also in bringing about reﬂection on the
outcomes of the students’ investigations on the Cultura platform.
Areas of telecollaborative research
An important corpus of research on telecollaborative exchange emerged during the
ﬁrst decade of the new millennium. The growing importance attributed in academia
to online learning scenarios, the ample possibilities of collecting data from online
text-based interaction and the new importance of sociocultural approaches to research
and education meant that telecollaborative projects were of particular interest to
researchers during this period. Much of this research was qualitative and ethnographic
in nature, reﬂecting the arguments of Bax (2003) and Levy and Stockwell (2006) that
it was necessary to provide rich, descriptive accounts of how CALL activities were
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
130
being organized and how the local contexts were affecting learning outcomes. This
research also reﬂected a growing understanding that CMC was not a genre in itself
(Kern, 2006), and that the outcomes of each online intercultural exchange would
inevitably be inﬂuenced by the different contextual factors involved. Warschauer
(2003) described this as the ‘social embeddedness of technology’ and explained the
concept in the following way: ‘technology does not exist outside a social structure,
exerting an independent force on it, but rather the technological and social realms
are highly intertwined and continuously co-constitute each other in myriad ways’
(2003, p. 26).
Researchers of telecollaborative exchange focused on how telecollaborative
exchanges can contribute to different aspects of FL education including the
development of linguistic proﬁciency, learner autonomy and intercultural learning.
However, there has also been an important amount of qualitative research dedicated
to how telecollaborative exchanges and tasks should be designed and structured. Each
of these areas will now be looked at brieﬂy.
Researchers working with e-tandem models have produced an important body
of research focusing on its contribution to the development of learner autonomy
(Schwienhorst, 2000) and how linguistic proﬁciency can be developed in this type
of exchange. Many studies in this area take an interactionist perspective and look at
online exchange through the lens of Long and Robinson’s interaction hypothesis (1998)
which proposes that negotiation of meaning can support the development of learners’
interlanguage. Koetter (2003), for example, looked at the quantity and the quality of
negotiation of meaning which took place in synchronous e-tandem exchanges and
also explored how learners negotiated the use of the two languages in their MOO
exchanges and managed to beneﬁt from the expertise of their partners in their
respective ﬁrst languages. Vinagre and Muñoz (2011) examined the different strategies
and correction techniques used by German and Spanish learners to foster attention
to linguistic form in asynchronous e-tandem exchanges, while Bower and Kawaguchi
(2011) compared the use of corrective feedback and negotiation of meaning in Japanese
and Australian e-tandems. There are far fewer examples of e-tandem studies focusing
on the development of intercultural competence (see Stickler & Emke, 2011 for a
notable exception), and research in this area usually comes from the telecollaborative
model of exchange.
Researchers have found telecollaboration to be a potentially powerful tool for
intercultural development for various reasons. First, telecollaborative exchanges have
been found to contribute to culture learning by providing learners with a different type
of knowledge to that which they usually ﬁnd in textbooks and in other traditional Cultural
Studies resources (O’Dowd, 2006). As opposed to objective factual information, the
accounts which students receive from their partners tend to be of a subjective and
personalized nature. For this reason, exchanges can be particularly useful for making
students aware of certain aspects of cultural knowledge (Byram, 1997), such as how
institutions are perceived in the target culture and what signiﬁcant events and people
are in the target culture’s ‘national memory’.
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 131
Second, it has been found that telecollaboration can also contribute to the
development of critical cultural awareness, as learners have opportunities in their
online interaction to engage in intense periods of negotiation of meaning in which they
can discuss cultural ‘rich points’ and illicit meanings of cultural behaviour from ‘real’
informants in the target culture. Learners are also led to become more aware of the
relativity of their own cultural beliefs and values as they try to make them explicit for
their partners. However, researchers emphasize that this is only the case when online
exchange involves explicit comparison of the two cultures and the expression of direct
opinions and reactions to the submissions of others (O’Dowd, 2003). Such dialogue
between partners contrasts with interaction which involves an unreﬂective exchange
of information between partners.
Third, Belz and Kinginger (2002, 2003) highlighted the potential of telecollaborative
exchange for making learners aware of cultural differences in communicative practices.
Their work has demonstrated how online exchange can contribute to the development
of L2 pragmatic competence in FL learning. The authors found this to be the case
because interaction with native-speaker peers can lead to the exposure of the learner
to a broad range of FL discourse and also because learners consider their partners
to be ‘people who matter’ and therefore are more motivated to establish successful
working relationships with them in the FL.
Apart from studying the contribution of online exchange to linguistic and intercultural
development in FL learners, many studies have also focused on the pedagogical
structure and design of online exchange projects and their tasks (Meskill & Ranglova,
2000; Müller-Hartmann, 2000; O’Dowd & Ware, 2009), and on the inﬂuence of differing
sociocultural and institutional factors on the development of exchanges.
Belz (2001, 2002) and Belz and Müller-Hartmann (2002, 2003) examined how
social and institutional factors such as different levels of language proﬁciency, the
misalignment of academic calendars, differences in societal norms with respect to
technological access, divergent forms of assessment in the respective cultures and
the different physical layout of the universities shaped the outcome of telecollaborative
exchanges between university-level foreign-language students in Germany and the
United States. Similarly, Ware (2005), in her qualitative study of an exchange between
students of English and German in the United States and Germany identiﬁed the
link between the different uses of linguistic features by both groups in their online
interaction, socio-institutional factors and low group functionality. Ware found that
Americans asked far fewer questions than their partners and also made fewer attempts
to establish personal rapport. This type of to-the-point, task-oriented interaction led to
what she describes as ‘missed communication’ between the students and left much
of the German group dissatisﬁed with the exchange. Looking at an exchange between
Spanish and North American students, O’Dowd (2005) examined the socio-institutional
factors which affected the development of an exchange based on the Cultura model of
telecollaboration. O’Dowd showed how the stereotypical images which each group had
brought to the exchange about the target culture inﬂuenced the levels of motivation
and participation of the students involved. The author found that the on-going war in
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
132
Iraq and the complex political relationship between Spain and the United States led
many of the Spanish students to react negatively to the idea of an exchange with
American students and a focus on American materials during class time.
Telecollaboration 2.0: Current approaches
and research
In recent years some researchers and practitioners have expressed their disapproval
of the class-to-class conﬁgurations which are still quite prominent in networked
classrooms. First, there has been criticism of the underlying belief in the research on
online intercultural exchange that members of different cultures use different genres
and cultural communication styles in their online intercultural interactions and that it is
this ‘clash of genres’ which often leads to breakdowns in online intercultural interaction.
Kramsch and Thorne, for example, describe the breakdown in communication which
occurred between classes of French and American students as ‘two local genres
engaged in global confrontation’ (2002, p. 99). However, Goodfellow and Lamy
warn that ‘the assumption that a coherent “genre” or “style” is characteristic of
national cohorts is rarely interrogated’ (2009, p. 6). The authors question whether it
is possible to speak about a ‘French communicative style’ and whether it is not an
over-simpliﬁcation to describe one monolithic cultural communicative style clashing
or causing misunderstandings with another. Inevitably, the truth may lie somewhere
half-way between the position that culture determines how people communicate and
the other that suggests it is incorrect to say that members of a particular nationality
exhibit a common communicative genre or style in online communication. Cultural
differences in online communicative style have been clearly demonstrated by Belz
(2002) and elsewhere, but research by O’Dowd and Ritter suggests that this should
be seen as just one of an interconnected number of reasons why online intercultural
communication can break down.
A second criticism of class-to-class exchanges comes from Hanna and de Nooy
(2009), who lamented what they viewed as the limited authenticity of simply engaging
L2 learners with other classrooms. They proposed as an alternative the activity of
requiring learners to participate in the online asynchronous discussion forums which
are provided by the websites of international newspapers such as Le Monde and the
Guardian.The authors suggested that getting learners to take part in such forums would
take them beyond the limitations of learner-to-learner communication and provide them
with opportunities to join with native speakers in authentic interaction which required
an awareness of the cultural rules and register of this genre of communication.
Against this background, recent years have seen the emergence of a third
‘generation’ or model of telecollaborative exchanges which reﬂects in many ways a
more ﬂexible and adaptable interpretation of how online intercultural interaction and
exchangecancontributetoFLlearning.DescribedbyGuthandHelmasTelecollaboration
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 133
2.0 (2010), this model focuses not only on the development of learners’ linguistic and
intercultural competence, but also on developing the online literacies necessary to
socialize, learn and work in today’s information society. The model is based on the
‘socialWeb’ that has emerged with the rise ofWeb 2.0 tools such as blogging, wikis and
social networking sites, and is characterized by a less text-based and more multimodal
form of communication (see Guth & Helm, 2010; Hauck, 2010). Certain variations of this
model also involve a type of intercultural exchange that is more classroom independent
than previous models and therefore allows for a much greater spectrum of possible
partners, language set-ups and forms of interaction. For example, the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology – Universidad Politécnica de Valencia Project (MITUPV project)
brought together Spanish and North American students in a Web 2.0-based exchange
which allowed students to share, annotate, restructure and analyse thousands of
different multimedia objects (usually photos and videos) which they themselves had
created using their own digital video recording devices (Morgenstern, 2009). However,
in an interesting twist change from ‘traditional’ telecollaborative exchanges, this project
platform was open to the general public as well as to classes at both institutions and
this meant that the intercultural exchange beneﬁted during its ten-year existence from
the participation of students in other universities as well as of non-university-based
participants.
Examples are also emerging of new-style telecollaborative exchanges which move
completely away from the ‘traditional’ class-to-class set-ups and which engage learners
in specialized interest communities or environments that focus on speciﬁc hobbies or
interests.Thorneetal.(2009),forexample,describethepotentialforinterculturalcontact
and learning in online fan communities, where learners can establish relationships with
like-minded fans of music groups or authors and can even use Web 2.0 technologies
to remix and create new artistic creations based on existing books, ﬁlms and music.
Learners also have increasing opportunities to use their FL skills and hone their
intercultural communicative competence through participating in online multicultural
communities such as multiplayer online games and public discussion forums, such as
those described by Hanna and de Nooy (2009). Researchers working in this area are
ﬁndingacomplexrangeofdatasourcesemergingfromtelecollaborativeexchangetaking
place completely outside the context of formal education. Pasﬁeld-Neoﬁtou (2011), for
example, analysed a corpus of blogs, emails, SNS interactions, chat conversations,
game proﬁles and mobile phone communications between 12 Australian learners of
Japanese with Japanese partners they had contacted outside of their formal learning
environment, in order to explore issues of language choice, identity construction and
feelings of national identity and ‘foreignness’ online.
Inevitably, this emerging model of telecollaboration requires learners to assume
greater responsibility for how their linguistic and intercultural learning progress online
as they are given greater freedom in their choice of potential intercultural learning
partners and learning environments – many of which, as has been shown, may be
completely independent of organized classroom activity.Thorne describes this form of
telecollaborative learning as ‘intercultural communication in the wild’ (2010, p. 144) and
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
134
speculates that this learning may be ‘situated in arenas of social activity that are less
controllable than classroom or organized online intercultural exchanges might be, but
which present interesting, and perhaps even compelling, opportunities for intercultural
exchange, agentive action and meaning making’ (Thorne, 2010, p. 144).
Although this is undoubtedly true, increased attention to informal and independent
telecollaborative activity may inevitably clash with attempts by educators and
educational institutions to integrate and ‘normalize’ CALL activity within FL
programmes (Bax, 2003; O’Dowd, 2011). Stephen Bax deﬁnes the normalization of
computer-assisted learning activity in the following way:
when computers . . . are used every day by language students and teachers as an
integral part of every lesson, like a pen or a book . . . without fear or inhibition, and
equally without an exaggerated respect for what they can do. They will not be the
centre of any lesson, but they will play a part in almost all . . . They will go almost
unnoticed. (2003, p. 23)
To achieve the integration of telecollaborative exchanges in formal education contexts, it
is likely that educators will need access to regular and dependable virtual partnerships,
easily observable and assessable student activity, tasks which are easily integrated
into normal classroom interaction, and exchange structures which can be understood
and adapted even by educators who have relatively low levels of electronic literacy.
These requirements are likely to be difﬁcult to meet in telecollaboration 2.0 activities
involving the remixing of multimedia objects and participation in public-access ‘fan
sites’ and public internet discussion forums. Finding models to accommodate both
these trends is undoubtedly a challenge for future research in the area.
Conclusions
After almost two decades of practice and research, it is still difﬁcult to assess the impact
which telecollaboration has had on FL education. While research has demonstrated
the contributions that online intercultural exchange can make to the language learning
process, it appears that many FL educators are unwilling or unable to integrate such
exchanges into their classrooms for various reasons. Many educators, for example,
have highlighted the organizational complexity of these exchanges and the difﬁculties
which they encounter when trying to dedicate time to the organization of an exchange
while attending to their other duties and obligations.Warschauer andWare, for example,
suggest that the type of learning which telecollaboration involves can often be at odds
with the institutional demands within which teachers are working:
classroom teachers . . . are under pressure to raise test scores, and most thus
shy away from creative project-based instruction in order to concentrate on more
narrowly focused interventions related to state examination material. (2008, p. 231)
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 135
A survey of practitioners reported by O’Dowd (2011) also revealed other obstacles to
the long-term ‘normalization’ of telecollaboration. These included a lack of stability in
project partners, the limited interest of colleagues and the difﬁculties in integrating
online exchanges into course syllabi and into course evaluation schemes. These
ﬁndings would seem to suggest that unless action is taken from a top-down policy
level, telecollaboration is destined to remain on the periphery of FL teaching and that
its potential will only be exploited by teachers and students who are willing to take it
as an addition to traditional skills-based language activities.
Nevertheless, examples do exist of initiatives which are providing telecollaborative
projects with the curricular time, space and recognition they deserve. An example of an
initiative that can facilitate the normalization of telecollaborative exchange into curricula
is the Connect Programme run by the NGO Soliya (http://soliya.net/?q=connect_
program). The organization brings together students from universities all around the
world in a highly structured exchange set-up for which participating students can
receive credit from their own universities.
Furthermore, the integration of telecollaborative projects with physical student
mobility programmes such as the European Union’s Erasmus programme may also
facilitate the development of more stable partnerships among European classrooms.
A European Commission Green Paper on promoting the learning mobility of young
people refers to online exchange as a tool for preparing physical mobility and as a viable
alternative for those students and young people who are unable to engage in traditional
mobility programmes (Commission of the European Communities, 2009, p. 18). The
report of the High Level Expert Forum on mobility also suggests the following: ‘Virtual
mobility is widely available, quick and cheap. Nevertheless, physical mobility provides a
more intensive and deeper experience and is, therefore, irreplaceable. Developing the
synergies between virtual and physical mobility is a central art of a new way of life’ (2008,
p. 11). Various projects and initiatives are currently exploring how telecollaboration can
be integrated with physical mobility (see Zeiss & Isabelli-García, 2005; and the Mobi-
blog project (http://mobi-blog.eu/) for two examples of these initiatives). In relation to
this area, Kinginger suggests the following:
A particularly intriguing application of this approach, as yet undocumented in the
literature, would be to establish telecollaborative courses linking students at home
to their in-country peers in the precise locations where they will study abroad and
thereby to establish contacts through prior, institutionally sanctioned interaction.
(2009, p. 111)
Undoubtedly, the greater integration of online technologies in students’ social lives
and study activities should also contribute to the consideration of online intercultural
exchange as being a normal part of educational practices. Nevertheless, there is still
a need for a virtual platform (similar to the ePals and eTwinning sites available for
primary and secondary school educators) where university FL teachers can easily ﬁnd
potential partner classes as well as tools and resources for integrating and evaluating
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
136
telecollaboration. There is also a need for greater awareness-raising among the FL
teaching community of the advantages of telecollaborative activity and for a greater
focus on training teachers in the pedagogical applications of new technologies rather
than in their technical aspects. With this in mind, there is a growing body of research
which aims to introduce future FL educators to telecollaboration by engaging them in
online exchanges during their own training programmes (Dooly, 2011; Grosbois, 2011;
Müller-Hartmann, 2007). With effective training practices such as those outlined in
these studies, and a realistic awareness of its potential and limitations, telecollaboration
stands to become an important part of CALL practice in the decades to come.
References
Audras, I., & Chanier, T. (2008). Observation de la construction d’une competénce
interculturelle dans des groupes exolingues en ligne. Revue Apprentissage des
Langues et Systeme d’Information et de Communication (ALSIC), 11, 175–204.
Bax, S. (2003). CALL – past, present and future. System, 31(1), 13–28.
Beauvois, M. (1997). Computer-mediated communication (CMC): Technology for improving
speaking and writing. In M. Bush & R. Terry (Eds.), Technology enhanced language
learning (pp. 165–83). Illinois: National Textbook Company.
Belz, J. (2001). Institutional and individual dimensions of transatlantic group work in
network-based language teaching. ReCALL, 13(2), 213–31.
— (2002). Social dimensions of telecollaborative foreign language study. Language
Learning & Technology, 6(1), 60–81.
— (2003). Linguistic perspectives on the development of intercultural competence in
telecollaboration. Language Learning & Technology, 7(2), 68–99.
— (2005). Telecollaborative language study: A personal overview of praxis and research.
Selected Papers from the 2004 NFLRC Symposium. Retrieved from http://nﬂrc.hawaii.
edu/networks/nw44/belz.htm
Belz, J., & Kinginger, C. (2002). The cross-linguistic development of address form use in
telecollaborative language learning: Two case studies. Canadian Modern Language
Review, 59(2), 189–214.
— (2003). Discourse options and the development of pragmatic competence by classroom
learners of German.The case of address forms. Language Learning, 53, 591–647
.
Belz, J., & Müller-Hartmann, A. (2003). Teachers negotiating German-American
telecollaboration: Between a rock and an institutional hard place. Modern Language
Journal, 87(1), 71–89.
Belz, J., & Thorne, S. (Eds.) (2006). Internet-mediated intercultural foreign language
education. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle.
Brammerts, H. (1996). Language learning in tandem using the internet. In M. Warschauer
(Ed.), Telecollaboration in foreign language learning (pp. 121–30). University of Hawaai’i:
Second Language Teaching and Curriculum Centre.
Byram, M. (1997). Teaching and assessing intercultural communicative competence.
Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Commission of the European Communities (2009). Green paper: Promoting the learning
mobility of young people. Retrieved from http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/
LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2009:0329:FIN:EN:PDF
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 137
Cummins, J., & Sayers, D. (1995). Brave new schools: Challenging cultural literacy through
global learning networks. New York: St. Martin’s Press.
Donath, R., & Volkmer, I. (Eds.) (1997). Das Transatlantische Klassenzimmer. Hamburg:
Koerber-Stiftung.
Dooly, M. (Ed.) (2008). Telecollaborative language learning: A guidebook to moderating
intercultural collaboration online. Bern: Peter Lang.
— (2011). Divergent perceptions of telecollaborative language learning tasks:
Tasks-as-workplan vs. task-as-process. Language Learning & Technology, 15(2), 69–91.
Eck, A., Legenhausen, L., & Wolff, D. (1995). Telekommunikation und
Fremdsprachenunterricht: Informationen, Projekte, Ergebnisse. Bochum: AKS-Verlag.
Fischer, G. (1998). E-mail in foreign language teaching: Towards the creation of virtual
classrooms. Tuebingen: Stauffenburg Medien.
Furstenberg, G., Levet, S., English, K., & Maillet, K. (2001). Giving a virtual voice to the
silent language of culture: The culture project. Language Learning & Technology, 5(1),
55–102.
Goodfellow, R., & Lamy, M.-N. (2009). Introduction: A frame for the discussion of learning
cultures. In R. Goodfellow & M-N. Lamy (Eds.), Learning cultures in online education
(pp. 1–14). London: Continuum.
Grosbois, M. (2011). CMC-based projects and L2 learning: Conﬁrming the importance of
nativisation. ReCALL, 23(3), 294–310.
Guth, S., & Helm, F
. (Eds.) (2010). Telecollaboration 2.0: Language, literacies and
intercultural learning in the 21st Century. Bern: Peter Lang.
Hanna, B., & de Nooy, J. (2009). Learning language and culture via public internet
discussion forums. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Hauck, M. (2010). Telecollaboration: At the interface between multimodal and intercultural
communicative competence. In S. Guth & F
. Helm (Eds.), Telecollaboration 2.0:
Language and intercultural learning in the 21st century (pp. 219–48). Bern: Peter Lang.
Hauck, M., & Lewis, T. (2007). The tridem project. In R. O’Dowd (Ed.), Online intercultural
exchange (pp. 250–9). Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
High Level Expert Forum On Mobility (2008). Making learning mobility an opportunity for
all. Retrieved from http://ec.europa.eu/education/doc/2008/mobilityreport_en.pdf
Kern, R. (2000). Literacy and language teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kern, R., Ware, P
., & Warschauer, M. (2004). Crossing frontiers: New directions in online
pedagogy and research. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 24, 243–60.
Kinginger, C. (2009). Language learning and study abroad: A critical reading of research.
Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave Macmillan.
Kohn, K., & Warth, C. (2011). Web collaboration for intercultural language learning.
Münster: MV-Wissenschaft.
Kötter, M. (2003). Negotiation of meaning and codeswitching in online tandems. Language
Learning and Technology, 7(2), 145–72.
Kramsch, C., & Thorne, S. (2002). Foreign language learning as global communicative
practice. In D. Block & D. Cameron (Eds.), Globalization and language teaching
(pp. 83–100). London: Routledge.
Levy, M., & Stockwell, G. (2006). CALL dimensions: Options and issues in
computer-assisted language learning. New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum & Associates.
Long, M., & Robinson, P
. (1998). Focus on form: Theory, research, and practice. In
C. Doughty & J. Williams (Eds.), Focus on form in classroom second language
acquisition (pp. 15–63). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Meagher, M., & Castaños, F
. (1996). Perceptions of American culture: The impact of an
electronically-mediated cultural exchange program on Mexican high school students.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
138
In S. Herring (Ed.), Computer-mediated communication. Linguistic, social and
cross-cultural perspectives (pp. 187–201). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Meskill, C., & Ranglova, K. (2000). Sociocollaborative language learning in Bulgaria. In
M. Warschauer & R. Kern (Eds.), Network-based language teaching: Concepts and
practice (pp. 20–40). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Morgenstern, D. (2009). ITUPV: Language, media, and distance in an online community.
In I. Lancashire (Ed.), Teaching literature and language online (pp. 190–202). New York:
Modern Language Association of America.
Müller-Hartmann, A. (2000). The role of tasks in promoting intercultural learning in
electronic learning networks. Language Learning & Technology, 4(2), 129–47
. Retrieved
from http://llt.msu.edu/vol4num2/ muller/default.html
— (2007). Teacher role in telecollaboration: Setting up and managing exchanges. In
R. O’Dowd (Ed.), Online intercultural exchange (pp. 167–93). Clevedon, UK: Multilingual
Matters.
O’Dowd, R. (2003). Understanding ‘the other side’: Intercultural learning in a
Spanish-English e-mail exchange. Language Learning and Technology, 7(2), 118–44.
— (2005). Combining networked communication tools for students’ ethnographic
research. In J. Belz, & S. L. Thorne (Eds.), Computer-mediated intercultural foreign
language education (pp. 86–120). Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle.
— (2006). Telecollaboration and the development of intercultural communicative
competence. Berlin: Langenscheidt.
— (Ed.) (2007). Online intercultural exchange: An introduction for foreign language
teachers. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
— (2011). Online foreign language interaction: Moving from the periphery to the core of
foreign language education? Language Teaching, 44(3), 368–80.
O’Dowd, R., & Ritter, M. (2006). Understanding and working with ‘Failed Communication’
in telecollaborative exchanges. CALICO Journal, 23, 623–42.
O’Dowd, R., & Ware, P
. (2009). Critical issues in telecollaborative task design. Computer
Assisted Language Learning, 22(2), 173–88.
O’Rourke, B. (2007). Models of telecollaboration (1): eTandem. In R. O’Dowd (Ed.), Online
intercultural exchange (pp. 41–61). Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
Pasﬁeld-Neoﬁtou, S. (2011). Second language learners’ experiences of virtual community
and foreignness. Language Learning and Technology, 15(2), 92–108. Retrieved from
http://llt.msu.edu/issues/june2011/pasﬁeldneoﬁtou.pdf
Riel, M. (1997). Learning circles make global connections. In R. Donath & I. Volkmer (Eds.),
Das Transatlantische Klassenzimmer (pp. 329–57). Hamburg: Koerber-Stiftung.
Roberts, B. (1994). What works? Retrieved from www.iecc.org/discussion/what-works.html
Schwienhorst, K. (2000). Virtual reality and learner autonomy in second language
acquisition. Unpublished PhD thesis, Trinity College Dublin.
Stickler, U., & Emke, M. (2011). Literalia: Towards developing intercultural maturity online.
Language Learning & Technology, 15(1), 147–68.
Telles, J. A. (Ed.) (2009). Teletandem: Um contexto virtual, autônomo e colaborativo para
aprendizagem de línguas estrangeiras no século XXI. Campinas: Pontes Editores.
Thorne, S. (2006). Pedagogical and praxiological lessons from internet-mediated
intercultural foreign language education research. In J. Belz & S. L. Thorne (Eds.),
Internet-mediated intercultural foreign language education (pp. 2–30). Boston, MA:
Heinle & Heinle.
— (2010). The intercultural turn and language learning in the crucible of new media. In
S. Guth & F
. Helm (Eds.), Telecollaboration 2.0: Language and intercultural learning in
the 21st century (pp. 139–65). Bern: Peter Lang.
TELECOLLABORATION AND CALL 139
Thorne, S. L., Black, R. W., & Sykes, J. (2009). Second language use, socialization, and
learning in internet interest communities and online games. Modern Language Journal,
93, 802–41.
Vilmi, R. (1994). Global communication through e-mail: An ongoing experiment at Helsinki
University of Technology. Paper presented at TESOL 94 Conference, Paris. Retrieved
from: www.hut.ﬁ/~rvilmi/Publication/global.html
Vinagre, M., & Muñoz, B. (2011). Computer-mediated corrective feedback and language
accuracy in telecollaborative exchange. Language Learning & Technology, 15(1),
72–103.
Ware, P
. (2005). Missed communication in online communication: Tensions in fostering
successful online interactions. Language Learning & Technology, 9(2), 64–89.
Warschauer, M. (Ed.) (1995). Virtual connections: Online activities and projects for
networking language learners. Honolulu, HI: University of Hawai’i Second Language
Teaching and Curriculum Center.
— (Ed.) (1996). Telecollaboration in foreign language learning. Honolulu, HI: University of
Hawai’i Second Language Teaching and Curriculum Center.
— (2003). Technology and equity: A comparative study. Paper presented at the Annual
Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, 24 April 2003. Chicago,
Illinois.
Warschauer, M., & Ware, P
. (2008). Learning, change, and power: Competing discourses
of technology and literacy. In J. Coiro, M. Knobel, C. Lankshear & D. J. Leu (Eds.),
Handbook of research on new literacies (pp. 215–40). New York: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Zeiss, E., & Isabelli-García, C. (2005). The role of asynchronous computer-mediated
communication on enhancing cultural awareness. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 18(3), 151–69.
8
Distance CALL online
Marie-Noëlle Lamy
Summary
In this chapter a distinction is made between CALL and distance CALL (henceforth
DCALL), two ﬁelds of activity often assumed to be overlapping. Two factors, one
political and the other conceptual, contribute to the enduring nature of such an
assumption. They relate, respectively, to the pressures that researchers in DCALL
encounter when facing the politics of dissemination and publication, and to the
conceptual confusion that is manifest in the terminology used to refer to distance
learning. The ﬁrst factor leads to under-articulation by DCALL researchers and
practitioners of the unique features of their work, leaving space for misconceptions
fed by the second. In order to dispel these misconceptions and to arrive at a deﬁnition
of DCALL that accurately reﬂects the ﬁeld and its neighbour, CALL, a brief discussion
of the political background is offered in the rest of this Introduction.This is followed by
a section in which the terminology of distance learning (henceforth DL) is clariﬁed and
the uniqueness of DL deﬁned.Two further sections then address the implications that
derive from this deﬁnition, introduce an integrated model of teaching and learning in
DL and apply it to selected examples from the distance language learning literature.
The chapter closes with considerations on current and future research directions.
Introduction
Blake (2009) concludes his review of DCALL as a body of publications by saying that
DCALL ‘draws heavily on previous research done in computer-assisted language
learning (CALL)’ (p. 822), a claim in need of qualiﬁcation as will be argued in this chapter.
DCALL is part of an academic dissemination and publishing pursuit, competing with
other ﬁelds for exposure, and it is in that context that Blake’s observation can best be
understood. Borrowing from the approach that Coleman (2005) took when examining
the status of CALL, this chapter is based on a review of specialized books, journals
and conferences to determine the visibility of DCALL as a ﬁeld. While Coleman’s
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
142
conclusion shows a marginalization of CALL at the hands of the ‘traditional’ language
research community, in the case of DCALL, the marginalization is perhaps more of a
self-inﬂicted injury: indeed as pointed out by Degache and Depover (2010) the DCALL
community in its emerging state two decades ago made some questionable choices.
It chose to publish in already established CALL journals and conferences – for example
in special issues such as Language Learning & Technology (2003), or in journals with
a wider focus, for example, Language Teaching Research (2006), rather than to create
its own instruments of dissemination, which would have required a deal of political
and economic leverage, or to use the established vehicles of the DL research industry,
which would have afforded insufﬁcient exposure in language specialist circles. In the
past decade, few DCALL submissions have found their way into DL publications or
conferences.
In preparing this chapter, the outputs of 13 major DL journals published between
2006 and 2011 were analysed, a period chosen because it started with the appearance
of White’s (2006) state- of-the-art article on distance language learning research. It was
found that only 42 papers from that corpus pertained to DCALL, out of over 2,000
articles. So, distance language writers are under-published in the literature of DL, while
in order to be widely relevant to readers of the CALL literature, they have to minimize
their distance speciﬁcities and maximize the aspects of their work that are transferable
across both distance and presence settings. The launch of a dedicated DCALL journal
is still a long way off, as is the establishment of a regular DCALL conference – with the
exception, still without a sequel today, of the 2003 Independent Language Learning
Conference at the UK Open University. Most writers in DCALL continue to submit to
CALL conferences and publications. As for books, the only available monograph on
our topic is White (2003), which deals with distance-language learning and includes
coverage of technological mediation but encompasses other foci, as does the volume
by Holmberg et al. (2005).The reluctance of DCALL researchers to publish in DL outlets
and their tendency to minimize the speciﬁcities of DL when publishing in CALL outlets,
to appeal to a less niche readership, do nothing to illuminate the identity of DCALL or
to show how it has rooted itself in pedagogical concerns. This chapter elaborates on
those areas.
What is distance CALL?
Terminological confusion
The confusion surrounding distance learning terminology has been noted by generic
distance education writers (Guri-Rosenblit & Gro, 2011) and by language writers (Blake,
2009): what are the differences between computer-assisted, ﬂexible, open, supported,
blended and e-learning? A good source of disambiguation is Glikman (2002), who
inspired the following terminological clariﬁcation.
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 143
First, there is no necessary association between DL and computer-assisted learning,
since distance learners can be (and before the mid-1990s always were) served by other
technologies such as print, sometimes enriched by analogue recording or broadcast
technologies and the telephone. However, contemporary DL is delivered through
digital technology, which may explain its popular image as futuristic education through
virtual worlds and other ‘advanced’ gadgets. Second, there is no necessary association
between DL and online learning either, since DL universities may not teach 100%
online, but through a blend of digital, postal and face-to-face contact, for example, the
UK Open University, the TÉLUQ in Québec or Queensland University of Technology.
Third DL and ﬂexible learning are also frequently confused but again, there is no
necessary connection between the two. Flexible learning requires a set of conditions
under which the learner’s own time and place constraints play a major and explicit
role in the institution’s way of organizing teaching and learning. Yet in some regulated
contexts such as corporate training or preparing students for national examinations
with immovable schedules, such as at the Centre National d’Enseignement à Distance
in France for example, DL may be practised with very little time ﬂexibility. Another
confusion is between the terms distance and open. They too sit in a complementary
but non-necessary relationship. Open learning requires no academic qualiﬁcations of
any sort as prerequisites for entry. Some institutions specify prerequisites (e.g., the
FernUniversität in Germany or the Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia in
Spain), so they cannot be said to offer open learning although they are distance-teaching
universities.
A further cause for confusion comes from the use of the term supported.
Supported learning refers to settings where the activities are supported by teachers
who accompany learners for a greater or lesser part of their study time, guiding those
aspects of self-study that may offer unexpected problems and providing evaluation
and feedback as well as affective support. Face-to-face education, with its physical
presence of teachers in classrooms is always ‘supported’, and has no need of the term.
But distance models are varied and those providing no support are not rare, making it
important for the more learner-oriented institutions to stress the supported dimension
of the services they offer.The notion of support also helps us understand what can be
meant by ‘courses taught entirely online’. For instance Blake (2008) argues that one
reason for the paucity of DCALL research is that ‘isolating the experimental treatment
so as to focus on the medium alone (DL vs. Classroom instruction), to the exclusion
of all other factors, remains a daunting, if not insurmountable, challenge’ (p.113). This
chapter suggests that it would be helpful if a distinction were not made between
‘DL
’ and ‘classroom instruction’, but instead between supported fully online courses
(which may offer online classroom instruction) and DL courses that are unsupported
or minimally supported. Last in this catalogue, e-learning is often used interchangeably
with distance learning, and covers so many different meanings – including all the
above – as to be unusable as a descriptor, which is why it will not be used in this
chapter.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
144
A deﬁnition of distance learning
Given the plethora of DL models – from fully-distance-based, in specialist distance
institutions, to partially-distance-based, in conventional institutions running distance
projects – Glikman (2002) suggests that a program counts as DL if ‘the bulk of
knowledge transmission, or of learning, is undertaken outside of a direct, face-to-
face, relationship between co-present teachers and learners’ (p. 19, original italics,
my translation). Contrary to rival deﬁnitions based on lack of co-presence (Schulte
& Krämer, 2008) or lack of classroom contact (Blake, 2009), Glikman’s formulation
is invulnerable to the counterargument that co-presence can happen online and
classroom contact too, thanks to synchronous learning environments. Instead she
draws attention to an institutional dimension of DL: once it is understood that in
DL the bulk of the learning takes place in non-co-presence, then it can be seen that
consequences follow for the DL institution, learner and teacher. In a DL setting deﬁned
in this way, the bulk of the contact is mediated by digital or older technologies. For
language schools in such settings it follows that face-to-face interaction – traditionally a
main ingredient of language programs – can only be a supplementary activity, in some
cases a non-compulsory one. Alternative ways therefore have to be found of providing
learners with the learning advantages afforded by face-to-face interaction. In language
learning programs they comprise: synchronous interactive-speaking opportunities
for ﬂuency development, listening opportunities under synchronous conditions for
listening strategy development, quasi-immediate progress monitoring and feedback
by the teacher in written and spoken forms. Lastly but very importantly for distance
learners who may never meet their peers physically, ways need to be found to integrate
the students into a community of language learners. In early distance learning of
languages (1880s to mid-1990s) all these experiences were necessarily absent, but as
early as the mid-1990s, DCALL was mobilized to address such difﬁculties (Jegede &
Gooley, 1994) and it has been most successful where it has been used within systemic
educational designs that have the speciﬁc needs of distance learners built into their
core, as will be elaborated shortly.
In a perspective that sees bulk of non-co-presence as the distinguishing criterion
between DL and other formats, what then is the position of blended learning?
According to Nicolson, Southgate and Murphy (2011) blended learning refers to ‘a
combination of forms of instructional technology, including traditional forms of learning
used in conjunction with web-based, online approaches’ (p. 6). Because ‘blends may
cover a wide spectrum ranging from those at the simpler end, combining a couple of
delivery options, print materials and telephone conferencing, for example, to more
complex combinations’ (ibid.), it is difﬁcult to see blended learning as a mix of particular
technologies. A more helpful way of looking at it is by focusing on the teaching and
learning dimension of blends:
For example, in some cases, conventional classroom teaching of new material
is complemented by opportunities for practice through online activity. In others,
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 145
particularly in distance and open settings, new material may be presented in self-
study resources, while language practice and reinforcement are offered via teacher-
facilitated sessions either online or in a face-to-face classroom. (Nicolson et al.,
2011, p. 7)
In this perspective the notion of bulk retains deﬁnitional usefulness: the balance
between self-study and co-present as well as non-co-present supported time is what
determines whether a blend is part of a DL model or a traditional one.
In sum, although distance learning should be clearly distinguished from ﬂexible and
from open learning, research has long conﬁrmed that best practice in DL does involve
degrees of ﬂexibility and openness even though there are DL organizations across the
world where these criteria are not meshed harmoniously or not met at all. Indeed in
the history of distance pedagogies evidence of vastly variable quality can be found
(Jonassen et al., 1995). When later in this chapter practices and issues that are speciﬁc
to distance CALL are identiﬁed, the distance element will be understood to include a
degree of ﬂexible and open learning within a supported model.
A disciplinary identity for DCALL
Some of the tenets of DL for languages simply reﬂect sound educational thinking.
They overlap with those which guide practice in co-present formats; others apply
to all distance learning whether in languages or other disciplines; others still are
speciﬁc to distance language learning. These disciplinary overlaps may be visualized
in Figure 8.1.
Figure 8.1 displays a central area with single hatchings (representing the overlap
between generic DL and DCALL) and one with cross-hatchings (representing the
overlap between DCALL and CALL). Typical of the single-hatched area are universal
D C A L L
D L C A L L
FIGURE 8.1 The relationship of DL with DCALL and CALL.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
146
DL issues, such as diagnostic self-testing on entry or expectation management, which
have a relevance for language learning but are not unique to it, as against other distance
issues applicable only to other disciplines, for example equipment-loaning policies in
the sciences (which therefore belongs to the clear area to the left of the ﬁgure).
This chapter is concerned with issues in the cross-hatched section of the ﬁgure.
In order to better understand what they are, that is which elements of DCALL differ
from CALL, it is useful to ﬁrst consider the role of integration in the design of distance
learning, both in general and for languages.
An integrated model of distance language learning
In distance organizations education is delivered on an industrial scale (Glikman, 2005)
but with a concern to ensure individual support, because DL institutions know from
retention ﬁgures that individualization is a factor in the successful completion of
studies. This tension between ‘one-size-ﬁts-all’ economics and personal attention is
mitigated through the development of student autonomy and is embodied in the two
features that pervade DL systems: batteries of tools for students to self-train in the
use of language school services, for greater economies of scale; and, more relevantly
for our discussion in this chapter, the integration into the materials and processes of
detailed and explicit rationales for everything that students are invited to do – from
the macro level of curriculum choices down to the micro level of individual language
exercises and tests. Furthermore, integrated with this is the ﬂexible provision of
alternative forms of learning for a range of student circumstances. Explicit and ﬂexible
are thus two keywords that will be developed shortly. Integrated, as Murphy and Hurd
(2011) rightly insist, is the third keyword here, since catering for different needs and
circumstances involves ‘not simply a collection of different ways of reaching the same
goals for learners to choose between, but rather the integration of different modes’
(p. 49, original emphasis).
White (2003) is right to draw attention to ‘the need for complementary perspectives
in conceptualizing distance learning’ (p. 86). Those who have articulated these
perspectives have shown how important systemicity is in DL. Whether it be White’s
‘learner-context interface’, a construct which sees ‘the establishment of an effective
interface between each learner and his or her learning context [as] the crucible for
distance language learning’ (ibid.) or whether it be Blake’s (2008) encouragement to
the DCALL profession ‘to tailor the curriculum to individual student readiness and
potential, to make learning goals and paths clear, to link inquiries to genuine problems
to enhance motivation, and to provide prompt constructive feedback’ (p.126), clearly
best-practice in DL involves struggling to counter isolation and separateness. There
is therefore, according to these experts, a recognition that distance CALL should
be a highly integrated activity. A representation of how distance systems can offer
integration and balance is offered in Figure 8.2 and is followed by a commentary.
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 147
The leading concerns of a distance educator are to be as explicit and as ﬂexible as
possible. When studying at a distance and in isolation, learners need most of all for
the learning processes to be totally transparent: there is no-one to ask for help if they
stumble on an obstacle. Consequently, running through all aspects of the learning
experience is the criterion of explicitness (top semi-circle in Figure 8.2). The other key
characteristic of the distance learning public is its heterogeneity: it is made up of learners
from all age groups and all walks of life, hence the importance of building in ﬂexibility
(bottom semi-circle) into all aspects of the program so that the learner’s experience is
optimal whatever her or his circumstances. In order to ensure that both explicitness
and ﬂexibility are built into the DL model and maintained throughout the phases of the
creation of courses, from design through to delivery, three types of resource must be
available, represented in the outer ring of Figure 8.2: a learning design approach, an
institutional learning strategy and a distributed learning environment.
A learning design approach is deﬁned by Conole (2009) as ‘a means of formally
representing (and thus reusing) learning sequences’ (p. 580). By formally representing
LEARNING DESIGN APPROACH
EXPLICITNESS as to choices and methods in
FLEXIBILITY to cater for diversity in
curriculum
pedagagies
content
tasks
activities
assignments
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
INSTITUTIONAL
LEARNING
STRATEGY
DISTRIBUTED LEARNING
STRATEGY
learning circumstances
prior academic experience
types of educational backgrounds
types of cultural backgrounds
first language(s)
motivations
orientation to social learning and collboration
FIGURE 8.2 A system for supported distance language learning.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
148
them in detail, course designers clarify them and make it easier for materials authors
and tutors to be explicit with students about the purpose and manner of study. Further,
by designing them for reuse, designers respond to the requirements inherent in DL as
a mass education mode. A learning design approach involves networking within teams,
which – in well-resourced cases – may include not only materials authors, tutors and
developmental-tester learners, but also educational technologists, Web editors and
audio-visual Web-asset producers.
Second, a teaching and learning strategy, which informs decision-making across
the DL institution, will if well-disseminated to staff and backed up by management in
a facilitative (rather than micro-managing fashion), allow a languages school to frame
its curriculum, study materials, communications resources, assessment instruments
and learner support mechanisms in ways compatible with institutional resources and
cultures.
Finally, a distributed learning environment, that is, one which can support learning
wherever and on whatever machine the learner’s needs determine, should be provided.
This may involve well-resourced arrays of tools or humbler arrangements combining
postal delivery with telephone support. Whatever the educational technology choices,
Sclater (2011) observes that ‘we only see signiﬁcant adoption of technologies for
teaching and learning when they are already commoditised’ (n.p.). By the time that
commoditized stage is reached (e.g., when ownership of a Smartphone is no longer
an eccentricity but is widespread) the learning and teaching can be designed so as to
be applied to Smartphones in addition to those machines already used by students.
The commoditized technology is not leading the learning, but it is added to the panoply
at the point where it has become a sufﬁciently important part of the distributed
environment and can accompany students ﬂexibly through their social and academic
lives. In contrast, in less well-served countries, the distributed environment may
exclude personal machines but include cybercafés (45.2% of students at a Nigerian
university obtain access that way, according to Jagboro, 2003). The learning design
then also needs to take into account the cultures of those locales for example, the
cultural taboos on women using them (Gunawardena et al., 2009).
These three resources, learning design approach, institutional strategy and
distributed learning environment, each has a role to play in the maintenance of an
ethos of explicitness and ﬂexibility. To illustrate this, it may help to imagine that the
inner and outer rings of Figure 8.2 rotate so that certain points can be lined up with
each other, somewhat like an orienteering compass: for example, a distributed learning
environment is a relevant resource to cope with the required ﬂexibility (e.g., students
with different needs may need to study using different devices) but if the outer rings
rotate 180 degrees, it can also be seen as a resource in the learning design. Similarly,
an institutional learning and teaching strategy must be in place to ensure support for the
activities going on in learning design. Equally, the institutional strategy should support
the ﬂexibility required by the diversity of student proﬁles (such as providing materials
equally suitable for learners with no disabilities as for those with sight-impairment
or dyslexia, or again varying the presentation of materials so that they enable equal
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 149
achievement of learning goals by less proﬁcient as by more proﬁcient language
learners registered together on a given module). Together, the three resources form
an integrated system that should perhaps structure most forms of teaching, but is an
indispensible ingredient in modes where the bulk of the learning is carried out without
co-presence.
DCALL research seen through the integrated model
Ironically, investigations of language learners and DL systems have not been systematic.
Rather, it is once again in generic DL research that systemic views are articulated.
However, some examples can be found that relate to distance language learning. The
following selection will give an insight into these practices and their relationship to
the integrated model, thus providing an answer to the question that arose from the
discussion of Figure 8.1, about which elements of DCALL are different from CALL.
Learning design issues
Open-sourceVLEs allow developers to customize or create modules and features. Some
DCALL research has highlighted the relationship between this technology, pedagogy
and learner needs, and has been able to inform the planning of distance courses.
For example, Shield and Kukulska-Hulme (2006) studied pedagogical and external
websites that were recommended to learners in their DCALL studies and identiﬁed two
components of website usability: pedagogical usability (Is the practice of multimodal
communication on websites a facilitator or inhibitor of progress in L2 communication?)
and intercultural usability (How do members of Culture A interpret the Web interface
and icon styles of Culture B?). Another example is Stickler and Hampel (2010) and their
case study on the use of a Moodle-based virtual learning environment including wikis
for collaboration and blogs for reﬂective learning. Distance learners were registered
on an online language course with a design combining different approaches. Findings
showed a link between students’ choice of tools and their learning preferences (e.g.,
focus on form or communication; preference for written or spoken language) thus
contributing to decisions that would shape the distributed environment for future
iterations of the course.
In DCALL the penalty for faulty design can be heavy: remote, isolated learners
whose learning is impeded or halted by design issues cannot obtain immediate help,
nor can designers intervene swiftly to recast pedagogical orientations that have been
explicitly described for the learners in the self-study materials already released to them.
Both the above studies exemplify the extent of the scrutiny under which the learning
and technological designs must come in order to ensure that the environmental and
pedagogical resources in the integrated model actually mesh. Both studies also show
how to frame this scrutiny within the context of our particular discipline.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
150
Flexibility as to study circumstances
The following three studies of mobile devices create a three-way link between the
study circumstances, the learner’s experiences and the technology. While podcast-
based teaching can be studied in the context of general CALL for the beneﬁts it may
bring to skills development (Ducate & Lomicka, 2009), the DCALL researcher looks
for additional dimensions, such as the technology’s potential for maximizing isolated
learners’ learning opportunities.Thus Edirisingha et al. (2007) derived a model of learner
support through podcast use which afforded both formal and informal learning, the
latter being accessed through peer knowledge, which is a plentiful resource among the
adult audiences typical of DL. Some less successful projects were reviewed by Rosell-
Aguilar (2009), who studied literature on the use of podcasts for language learning.
Many students in these studies choose to work with podcasts through their institution’s
VLE rather than subscribe to RSS feeds, which ‘would appear to contradict some of
the potential beneﬁts of podcasting . . . (e.g., portability, attractiveness, learning on the
move, informality’ (p. 27).The author wondered whether the explanation lay in the lack
of integration between course design and the different environments involved:
[m]any of the ﬁles were embedded within a VLE where students had to complete
activities based on the media resources. If students have to listen to a piece of
audio to prepare for an activity or lecture or complete activities based on it, why
would they de-contextualize that audio and transfer it to a portable device? (ibid.)
He also reminded the reader that podcasts have a characteristic which differentiates
them from ordinary audio ﬁles: they form regularly updated series, encouraging
extended listening over time. He found that this feature was not exploited either. In
these cases, ﬂexibility of environment had been considered, but the learning design
failed to exploit the affordances of this environment. In contrast, an intervention study
by Demouy and Kukulska-Hulme (2010) speciﬁcally focused on such affordances. They
set up an experiment comparing two groups of 35 distance learners. Group 1 was
asked to carry out listening and speaking activities on mobile phones; Group 2 carried
out listening activities on MP3 player and iPods and could then practise the speaking
closely related to those listening tracks on their computer with the course DVD-Rom.
The researchers found that Group 1
engaged with the project activities in a variety of settings. ‘Other’ locations
included at work, in the streets or public spaces, in hotel rooms, at the beach or at a
supermarket.The majority of participants indicated that they were doing something
else whilst listening to the clips. This usually meant travelling (with public transport
scoring an average of 36% and driving 12% over the six-week period) or exercising
(walking 45%, jogging 15%) ranking higher in the choices available. By comparison,
Group 2 responses show a marked preference for working with the project’s
activities at home. (Demouy et al., 2010, p. 222)
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 151
The authors concluded that ‘interactive speaking activities are not done easily in public
places, in front of others or while doing something else. Participants generally chose
to do them at home. They rarely managed to ﬁnd a “quiet” spot or time to try out an
activity outside their home’ (p. 228). With a local institutional policy that encourages
mobile learning, and a distributed environment that includes all the above devices, it
is particularly important, as the research shows, that the learning design should be
constructed in full consideration of the learners’ real experiences with, and preferred
uses of, the technological environment.
In the integrated model discussed earlier, the institution also plays a role in
supporting students in their particular study circumstances. There is only one report
to date on the effect of an institutional learning strategy on DCALL: Hopkins’ (2010)
work on assessment at the Universidat Oberta de Catalunya (UOC). Whereas from
its inception in 1994 the all-online UOC excluded synchronous activity because its
busy students could not be expected to attend online events at set times, the English
department fought to show that real-time interactivity based on collaborative tasks was
important to language learning. Having demonstrated through research the willingness
of UOC students to engage with synchronous online learning, Hopkins and colleagues
were able to modify the direction of the institutional strategy and the UOC now offers
synchronous activities.Their innovative approach to oral assessment exempliﬁes DCALL
research, in that while CALL inspired the principles that underpinned the construction
of the assessment, the particular DCALL contribution is to have embedded those in a
scheme that took full notice both of the institutional constraints and of the students’
circumstances. Speciﬁcally, the tests involved discussions in which students worked
in small groups towards a negotiated consensus through oral interactions triggered by
a scenario. No tutors or assessors were present at the test itself, which was student-
led and recorded for later marking. Hopkins explains the dual rationale that determined
this choice:
The autonomous, student-led nature of the tasks responded in part to practical
issues of timetabling and the impossibility of instructors attending the sessions
of all of their students. In addition, in light of previous research ﬁndings regarding
the general teacher centeredness of the interaction in [Synchronous Audiographic
Conferencing] environments discussed previously, a further aim was to explore a
situation in which the teacher’s role was not that of session leader, but rather post-
session observer and provider of feedback. (p. 238)
Additionally the research discovered a further reason why the method ﬁtted well with
DL and its focus on student self-management: some students had found listening to
the recording of the assessed speaking activity useful. According to one of them ‘The
fact that you can listen to yourself afterwards is very positive and you become aware
of your errors, your pronunciation, etc’ (ibid., p. 249). While the assessment designers
can be credited with bringing about the educational beneﬁts and student satisfaction
levels reported by Hopkins, it is clear that the UOC’s willingness to change its policy
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
152
in favour of an innovation such as a non-staffed synchronous summative test has also
been key, underlining again the need for systemic approaches if DL practices are to
ﬂourish.
Previous academic experience
The following study is a good example of DCALL research and development, in that
the authors understand DL
’s preoccupation with the diversity of academic experience
which is characteristic of open learning cohorts. Although this is a generic distance
learner characteristic, the authors’ proposals for addressing it are speciﬁcally
contextualized to language learning and technology. Ros I Solé and Mardomingo (2004)
designed a multiple-pathways Web-based project for cultural learning for L2 learners of
Spanish. The design offered distance students varying degrees of scaffolding through
the pathways (or ‘trajectories’) depending on how conﬁdent they felt with both the
medium and the language. Having self-selected a ‘trajectory’, students were then
automatically guided through the tasks with the degree of scaffolding that matched
their proﬁciency, based on self-assessment. Findings were encouraging but suggested
that further support was needed to help students select realistically (which in most
cases meant not underestimating their own strengths).
Previous educational cultures
Doherty (2009) proves by counterexample that a DCALL learning design that pays scant
attention to prior learning cultures will fail, particularly if it coincides with a similarly
monocultural strategy on the part of the institution. She presents a study of what she
calls ‘assessment trouble’ on a distance MBA administered by an Australian university
through the medium of English, with an enrolment of advanced L2 speakers of English
(Malaysian and Chinese) studying alongside L1 Australian peers. The L2 cohort soon
starts expressing a high degree of anxiety on the course forum about the nature of the
course assessment.The Australian cohort, less vocal in the forum discussions (41% of
all such queries for two thirds of the enrolments), seems to implicitly understand the
tutor’s account of the institution’s assessment requirements. He posts to the forum
that students are expected to produce an assignment that is ‘professionally presented
with appropriate use of headings and sub-headings [for which the] precise format is
up to the individual student’ (p. 141). As a result, the L2 cohort’s questions intensify,
ranging from word limits and document formatting to interpretation of the wording in
the advice offered: ‘Is it possible for you to clarify in more speciﬁcs’ or, again, ‘I’ve a few
problems trying to understand what I’m supposed to touch on’ (ibid., p. 141). Finally,
the tutor offers to post an example ‘on the understanding that it is not a “model” but
only an example’ (ibid., p. 142). Analysing the fresh ‘stream of trouble’ (ibid., p. 143) that
greets this initiative, Doherty observes that the L2 cohort has ‘limited experience of
the norms in the Australian university sector [where they were] positioned as guests’
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 153
(ibid., p. 141), in contradiction to the University’s marketing discourse that promoted
the course as one international online community. Australian students faced with the
same instructions, on the other hand were able to decode the tutor’s guidelines.
In terms of the integrated model discussed earlier, then, the troubles in this case can
be mapped to weaknesses in the learning design. There was insufﬁcient explicitness
about the assessment procedures, and insufﬁcient (or even nil) account was taken of
the prior educational cultures of the L2 speakers. Arguably, further weaknesses lay in
the distributed learning environment (e.g., reducing communication to an asynchronous
forum when synchronous teleconferencing might have been more useful in helping
with linguistic disambiguation) and in the institutional strategy (which legitimized only
one assessment model).
Motivation and anxiety
The identiﬁcation of linguistic activities and contents suitable for study times when
full attention is engaged, and others when attention or motivation are lower, is
arguably something that generic CALL should encourage. Language studies, with
their mix of skills-based and content-based work, times of lone reﬂection and times
of communication with others, can be seen as particularly well suited to variations in
learning routines.Yet no CALL research on this topic has come to light in the preparation
of this chapter. In DCALL, in contrast, motivation is an increasingly researched ﬁeld.The
design of DL materials plays a role in motivation maintenance. For example Murphy and
Hurd (2011) have speciﬁc recommendations for pacing the material so as to minimize
moments of low motivation. They also illustrate the need to provide learners with the
content and technological resources that allow them to exercise motivation monitoring
themselves ‘and become aware of the decisions [about their learning that] they can
and should be making’ (p. 56).
Concerning anxiety, a few studies of emotions around language performance are
now also available (Bown & White 2010; Pichette, 2009) . Yet papers with a speciﬁc
focus on these affective issues as they play out within a digitally mediated DL format
are harder to ﬁnd, although two examples are Ozdener and Satar’s (2008) study on
affect in the use of text and voice chat, and de los Arcos et al. (2009) reporting on
emotions in audiographic conferencing. These authors identiﬁed ways in which the
medium respectively heightened and diminished certain types of emotion in learners
attending regular online tutorials with peers and tutors whom they have never met.
Current and future directions
In her state-of-the-art review of ten years of distance language learning White (2006)
found that by that point in the new century, three broad topics had emerged as priorities
for distance language researchers: ‘the process of choosing technology in particular
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
154
sociocultural contexts, the contribution of “low-end” technologies, and the potential
and contribution of new learning environments’ (pp. 254–5).
In light of the priorities that she saw emerging in 2006, this chapter concludes with
a look at the issues that occupy DCALL researchers today. To that effect, a corpus
of research and theses from the UK Open University published in 2010 and 2011 or
in press at the time of writing was examined. 54 studies were found to belong to
DCALL, covering the following topics (in descending order of number of publications):
multimodality (8); knowing more about learners, their characteristics and contexts
(8); online teaching and teacher training (7); autonomy (4); motivation (4); emotions
and anxiety (4); intercultural issues (4); mobile learning (4); task design (3); beginners
(3); the speaking skill (1); collaboration (1); feedback (1); assessment (1); and Open
Educational Resources for teachers (1).The top seven items on the list may be seen as
priority activities for DCALL, as follows.
The ﬁrst one is multimodality, a ﬁeld which has become important to DCALL in
the last ten years, as the mediation of distance learning has been able to take place
via ever more sophisticated digital platforms. Understanding interaction in these
environments (Hampel, in press; Hampel & Stickler, 2012; Mirza & Lamy, 2010),
learner competence (Hauck, 2010) and methodologies for researching multimodal
interactions (Lamy, 2012; Lamy & Flewitt, 2011) make up three productive strands of
multimodality research.
The joint top-ranking category (knowing more about learners) is driven by a key
feature of DCALL mentioned earlier on in the chapter, that is, being ﬂexibly responsive
to the wide variety of DL audiences, for example to learner diversity (Adams &
Nicolson, 2011), to learner characteristics and how they link to attainment (Coleman &
Furnborough, 2010) or to learner preferences (Stickler & Hampel, 2010).
The training of online distance teachers of languages has been an object of research
for nearly two decades and is likely to continue so, as teachers have to cyclically
adapt their teaching to evolving technology settings, and institutions need to better
understand the implications for teacher workloads and rewards. New issues for
DCALL teachers in blended formats are discussed in Nicolson et al. (2011), Beaven
et al. (2010), Comas-Quinn (2011), Gallardo et al. (2011), and in Guichon and Hauck’s
(2011) special issue of ReCALL.
Research on motivation has been mentioned earlier. Together with research on
autonomy (Murphy & Hurd, 2011) and on emotions (Kukulska-Hulme & de los Arcos,
2011) it is key to retention of distance learners and can be predicted to be a continuing
priority in the future.
In DCALL, intercultural research has placed less emphasis on telecollaboration than
has been the case in CALL more generally.This may be due to the demographic proﬁle
of distance learners (generally older, with more accumulated life experiences including
travel, and therefore in need of a different approach to ‘developing intercultural
awareness’ than younger audiences). There may also be some reluctance on the part
of distance course designers to involve their learners in periods of contact with a
second remote community, given the time that learners already devote to connecting
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 155
with their primary remote community, that is, their tutors and peers. However, speciﬁc
approaches to intercultural learning for distance audiences are a live research topic,
including, recently, intercultural development in adult European beginners learning
Chinese at a distance (Álvarez, 2011; Álvarez & Kan, in press).
Finally, research into mobile language learning in distance contexts (Kukulska-Hulme,
2010) has two different rationales, as seen earlier. One is the need, in DL, for as
close a ﬁt as possible with the adult learner’s personal technologies of choice, the
other predominantly relates to teachers of English in the compulsory school sector
in under-served countries, and has more of an inclusion agenda (Power & Shrestha,
2010). The research aims within the former can be so varied, the needs of the two
sectors so different and the technology itself so ubiquitous and versatile that the time
may have come when the label ‘mobile learning’ is no longer an accurate descriptor,
whether in distance or co-present formats, while the practice itself continues to follow
the technology and to provide new objects for research.
However, to remain true to the avoidance of technological determinism which has
guided the writing of this chapter, a more cultural note should be sounded in conclusion:
DCALL overlaps but is not co-terminous with CALL and instead has speciﬁc concerns
related to distance, openness, ﬂexibility and support for learners. Distance teaching
and learning of languages is now a mature ﬁeld, albeit as mentioned earlier, still facing
the task of establishing its own dissemination territories. Through their continuing
endeavour to scrutinize, document and address the challenges of remote language
learning and teaching, DCALL practitioners bring valuable pedagogical and design
insights into the thinking of the CALL community at large.
References
Adams, H., & Nicolson, M. (2011). Learner diversity. In M. Nicolson, L. Murphy &
M. Southgate (Eds.), Language teaching in blended contexts (pp. 24–43). Edinburgh:
Dunedin Academic Press.
Álvarez, I. (2011). Learning about Chinese-speaking cultures at a distance. In J. Fenoulhet,
& C. Ros i Solé (Eds.), Mobility and localisation in language learning: A view from
languages of the wider world (pp. 145–72). Oxford: Peter Lang.
Álvarez, I., & Kan, Q. (in press). Supporting intercultural learning for beginners’ Chinese
language learners at the Open University in the United Kingdom. In M. Cortazzi &
L. Jin (Eds.), Researching intercultural learning. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Beaven, T., Emke, M., Ernest, P
., Germain-Rutherford, A., Hampel, R., Hopkins, J.,
Stanojevic, M. M., & Stickler, U. (2010). Needs and challenges for online language
teachers – the ECML project DOTS. Teaching English with Technology: A Journal for
Teachers of English, 10(2), 5–20.
Blake, R. (2008). Brave new digital classroom: Technology and foreign language learning.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
— (2009). The use of technology for second language distance learning. The Modern
Language Journal, Focus Issue, 93, 822–35.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
156
Bown, J., & White, C. (2010). Affect in a self-regulatory framework for language learning.
System, 38(3), 432–43.
Coleman, J. (2005). CALL from the margins: Effective dissemination of CALL research and
good practices. ReCALL 17(1), 18–31.
Coleman, J. A., & Furnborough, C. (2010). Learner characteristics and learning outcomes
on a distance Spanish course for beginners. System, 38(1), 14–29.
Comas-Quinn, A. (2011). Learning to teach online or learning to become an online teacher:
An exploration of teachers’ experiences in a blended learning course. ReCALL, 23(3),
218–32.
Conole, G. (2009). Capturing practice and scaffolding learning design. In U. Bernath,
A. Szücs, A. Tait & M. Vidal (Eds.), Distance and e-Learning in transition: Learning
innovation, technology and social challenges (pp. 579–94). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley.
Degache, C., & Depover, C. (Eds.) (2010). La distance dans l’enseignement des langues,
frein ou levier? Distances et Savoirs, Special issue, 3(9), 319–24.
de Los Arcos, B., Coleman, J. A., & Hampel, R. (2009). Learners’ anxiety in audiographic
conferences: A discursive psychology approach to emotion talk. ReCALL, 21(1), 3–17
.
Demouy, V., & Kukulska-Hulme, A. (2010). On the spot: Using mobile devices for listening
and speaking practice on a French language programme. Open Learning: The Journal of
Open and Distance Learning, 25(3), 217–32.
Doherty, C. (2009). Trouble and auto-ethnography in assessment genre: A case for
postnational design in online internationalised pedagogy. In R. Goodfellow & M-N Lamy
(Eds.), Learning cultures in online education (pp. 131–50). London: Continuum Books.
Ducate, L., & Lomicka, L. (2009). Podcasting, an effective tool for honing students’
language pronunciation? Language Learning and Technology, 13(3), 66–86.
Edirisingha, P
., Rizzi, C., Nie, M., & Rothwell, L. (2007) Podcasting to provide teaching
and learning support for an undergraduate module on English language and
communication. Turkish Online Journal of Distance Education, 8(3), 87–107
.
Gallardo, M., Heiser, S., & Nicolson, M. (2011). Teacher development for blended contexts.
In M. Nicolson, L. Murphy & M. Southgate (Eds.), Language teaching in blended
contexts (pp. 219–31). Edinburgh: Dunedin Academic Press.
Glikman, V. (2002). Des cours par correspondance au ‘e-Learning’. Paris: Presses
Universitaires de France.
— (Ed.) (2005). Tutorat à distance et logiques industrielles. Distances et Savoirs, 3(2),
127–31.
Guichon, N., & Hauck, M. (Eds.) (2011). Teacher education research in CALL and CMC:
More in demand than ever. Special issue of ReCALL, 23(3), 187–99.
Gunawardena, C., Alami, A., Jayatilleke, G., & Bouachrine, F
. (2009). Identity, gender
and language in synchronous cyber-cultures: A cross-cultural study. In R. Goodfellow
& M-N. Lamy (Eds.), Learning cultures in online education (pp. 30–51). London:
Continuum Books.
Guri-Rosenblit, S., & Gro, B. (2011). e-Learning: Confusing terminology, research gaps
and inherent challenges. The Journal of Distance Education/Revue de l’Éducation
à Distance, 25(1), (n.p.). Retrieved from www.jofde.ca/index.php/jde/article/
viewArticle/729/1206
Hampel, R. (in press). Multimodal computer-mediated communication and distance. In
C. A. Chapelle (Ed.), Encyclopedia of applied linguistics. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
Hampel, R., & Stickler, U. (2012). The use of videoconferencing to support multimodal
interaction in an online language classroom. ReCALL 24(2).
Hauck, M. (2010). Telecollaboration: At the interface between multimodal and intercultural
communicative competence. In S. Guth & F
. Helm. (Eds.), Telecollaboration 2.0:
DISTANCE CALL ONLINE 157
Language, literacies and intercultural learning in the 21st century (pp. 219–48). Bern:
Peter Lang.
Holmberg, B., Shelley, M., & White, C. (Eds.) (2005). Distance education and languages:
Evolution and change. Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
Hopkins, J. E. (2010). Distance language learners’ perceptions of assessed, student-led
speaking tasks via a synchronous audiographic conferencing tool. Innovation in
Language Learning and Teaching, 4(3), 235–58.
Jagboro, K. O. (2003). A study of internet usage in Nigerian universities: A case study of
Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife-Ife, Nigeria. First Monday, 8(2). (n.p.) Retrieved from
http://ﬁrstmonday.org/htbin/cgiwrap/bin/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/1785/1665
Jegede, O. J., & Gooley, A. (1994). A front-end evaluation of audiographic conferencing
system in open and distance learning in Queensland. In proceedings from The First
International Conference on Open Learning, 9–11 November (pp. 175–80). Brisbane:
University of Southern Queensland.
Jonassen, D., Davidson, M., Collins, M., Cambell, J., & Haag, B. B. (1995). Constructivism
and computer-mediated communication in distance education. The American Journal of
Distance Education, 9(2), 7–26.
Kukulska-Hulme, A. (2010). Charting unknown territory: Models of participation in mobile
language learning. International Journal of Mobile Learning and Organisation, 4(2),
116–29.
Kukulska-Hulme, A., & de los Arcos, B. (2011). Triumphs and frustrations of self-motivated
language learners using mobile devices. In The CAL Conference 2011 – Learning
Futures: Education, Technology and Sustainability, 13–15 April 2011, Manchester.
Lamy, M-N. (2012). Click if you want to speak: Reframing CA for research into multimodal
conversations in online learning. International Journal of Virtual and Personal Learning
Environments, 3(1), 1–18.
Lamy, M-N., & Flewitt, R. (2011). Describing online conversations: Insights from a
multimodal approach. In C. Develotte, R. Kern & M-N. Lamy (Eds.), Décrire la
communication en ligne: Le face-à-face distanciel (pp. 71–94). Lyon: ENS Editions.
Mirza, C., & Lamy, M-N. (2010). Quel est le rôle des environnements audio-graphiques
synchrones dans les interactions d’un cours de langue en ligne? Revue Internationale
des Technologies en Pédagogie Universitaire, 7(1), 47–67
.
Murphy, L., & Hurd, S. (2011). Fostering learner motivation and autonomy in blended
teaching. In M. Nicolson, L. Murphy & M. Southgate (Eds.), Language teaching in
blended context (pp. 43–58). Edinburgh: Dunedin Academic Press.
Nicolson, M., Murphy, L., & Southgate, M. (Eds.) (2011). Language teaching in blended
contexts. Edinburgh: Dunedin Academic Press.
Ozdener, N., & Satar, M. (2008). Computer-mediated communication in foreign language
education: Use of target language and learner perceptions. The Turkish Online Journal
of Distance Education, 9(2), (n.p.).
Pichette, F
. (2009). Second language anxiety and distance language learning. Foreign
Language Annals, 42(1), 77–93.
Power, T., & Shrestha, P
. (2010). Mobile technologies for (English) language learning: An
exploration in the context of Bangladesh. In IADIS International Conference: Mobile
Learning 2010, 19–21 March 2010 (n.p.). Porto, Portugal: IADIS Press.
Rosell-Aguilar, F
. (2009). Podcasting for language learning: Re-examining the potential.
In L. Lomicka & G. Lord (Eds.), The next generation: Social networking and online
collaboration in foreign language learning. (pp. 13–34). San Marco: Calico, Texas, USA.
Ros I Solé, C., & Mardomingo, R. (2004). Trayectorias: A new model for online task-based
learning. ReCALL, 16, 145–57
.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
158
Schulte, D., & Krämer (2008). The impact of new technologies on distance learning
students. In proceedings from The 2008 Conference of the European Association of
Distance Teaching Universities, 18–19 September. Online document. Retrieved from
http://bit.ly/qhA4q2
Sclater, N. (2011, 18 March). Can technology signiﬁcantly impact learning before it
has been commoditised? [Web log comment]. Retrieved from http://sclater.com/
blog/?p=566
Shield, L., & Kukulska-Hulme, A. (2006). Are language learning websites special? Towards
a research agenda for discipline-speciﬁc usability. Journal of Educational Multimedia
and Hypermedia, 15(3), 349–69.
Southgate, M., & Murphy, L. (2011). The nature of the ‘blend’: Interaction of teaching
modes, tools and resources. In M. Nicolson, L. Murphy & M. Southgate (Eds.),
Language teaching in blended contexts (pp. 13–27). Edinburgh: Dunedin Academic
Press Ltd.
Stickler, U., & Hampel, R. (2010). CyberDeutsch: Language production and user
preferences in a Moodle VLE. CALICO Journal, 28(1), 49–73.
White, C. (2003). Language learning in distance education. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
— (2006). State-of-the-art review article: The distance learning of foreign languages.
Language Teaching, 39, 247–64.
9
Language learning
in virtual worlds:
Research and practice
Randall Sadler and Melinda Dooly
Summary
VirtualWorlds (VWs) are online 3D environments populated by individuals in the form
of their avatars. These worlds provide sustained persistent social environments
that may be accessed by their users 24 hours a day. For language learners, VWs can
provide opportunities to have immediate, visual and affective access to speakers of the
language(s) they are learning in a way that is not possible in other online communication
formats. This chapter will include two sections. Part one will provide a brief overview
of the development of VWs, from their early text-based forms, to the more graphically
oriented environments of today such as Second Life™ and a review of the research
being performed in this area. The second part of this chapter will examine the use of
VWs for language and content learning, based on several research projects by the
authors.
Introduction
For many of the readers of this book, their introduction to environments like VWs may
have been through television or movies. This might have been via the holodeck on
Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987), where characters from the show could enter a
room that was able to display almost any 3D setting with which they could interact,
or in movies like the original Tron (1982), where Jeff Bridge’s character was pulled
into a 3D Virtual World against his will. However, the ﬁctional exploration of VWs
may be traced back much further in books, beginning with Weinbaum’s Pygmalion’s
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
160
Spectacles where a character discusses his creation of a technology that would go
beyond a traditional movie to ‘add taste, smell, even touch’ creating an environment
where ‘instead of being on a screen, the story is all about you, and you are in it’ (1935,
section 1).
The VWs that exist today do not share all the wonders of their ﬁctional
counterparts (i.e., we are not yet able to step physically into a holodeck of the sort
portrayed in Star Trek), but all VWs do share certain characteristics, as discussed
in Sadler (2011):
Modern VWs are online 3D environments;
l
Players are represented by avatars;
l
They are primarily synchronous, focusing on real-time interactivity;
l
They are accessible 24 hours a day;
l
They are persistent, with the world continuing to exist after an avatar logs
l
out;
They are social spaces;
l
Numbers are important. In most VWs there are many players online in the
l
world at the same time.
The 3D environments provided by VWs are used for a large variety of functions.These
include the battles and strategic teamwork common to Massively Multiplayer Online
Roleplay Games (MMORGs) like World of Warcraft, with the functions in VWs ranging
from virtual dancing, socializing, virtual building, buying and selling, holding business
or club meetings and, of course, gathering for educational purposes. While almost no
modern VWs were created solely for use in education, the ﬂexibility of these spaces
means that educators can easily adapt them for language learning in general and
language learning in particular, as discussed later in this section.
In order to explore these issues in more detail, this chapter includes two sections.
Part one will provide a brief overview of the development of VWs, from their early
text-based forms, to the more graphically oriented environments of today such as
Second Life, followed by a review of language learning practices and research being
performed in this area.The second part of this chapter will examine the use of VWs for
language and content learning from a perspective that has so far been rarely explored –
the use of a VW for language learning with young children (e.g., from 6–12 years old).
The chapter will conclude with a discussion of the future of VWs for language learning
for all ages, and suggestions for future research.
While some educators might not yet see the potential of VWs for their students, it
is increasingly clear that many individuals (ranging from toddlers to senior citizens) are
making heavy use of those environments (see Figure 9.1). Over the last three years
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 161
the number of users of VWs has increased at every age level. In 2009, there were over
414 million users of VWs worldwide – a truly staggering number – and yet by 2011 this
number had increased to 1.185 billion (almost 3 times the number of participants of
just 3 years ago). Just as other forms of computer-mediated communication (CMC)
discussed in this book have become ubiquitous, VWs have become integrated into
everyday life for many people across the globe as a means of communication and
socialization. This is especially apparent among younger users, where the most rapid
growth in usage has taken place.
Even among the smallest group shown in Figure 9.1, those aged 25 and above,
the number of users is impressive but it should also be noted that the numbers
discussed above refer to environments considered to be VWs rather than MMORPGs.
Although those more purely game-focused platforms are not the focus of this chapter,
the addition of that latter group would push these user numbers far higher. Some
of the popularity of VWs has to do with the wide variety of choices now available,
and the increasing aiming of VWs at speciﬁc audiences. The site mmorpg.com, which
tracks a range of MMORPG environments ranging from ‘real life’ (e.g., Second Life), to
‘fantasy’ (e.g., World of Warcraft), historical, science ﬁction and sports, currently lists
497 environments.
There has been little research performed that speciﬁcally examines the issue
of how and to what extent language learning is accomplished in virtual worlds
(Panichi & Deutschmann, 2012) but the sheer number of VW users worldwide, and
the increasing use of individual VWs by users from many different countries, has
created a situation where the potential for both language learning and teaching is
great (Sadler, 2011).
0
77 73
237
18 27 39
313
190
272
246
413
561
Aged 5 to 10 10 to 15 15 to 25 25 and up
100
200
300
400
500
600
2009 2010 2011
FIGURE 9.1 VW users (in millions Q1 2009–Q1 2011) by age level (KZERO, 2011).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
162
A history and overview of VWs
The ‘ancestors’ of theVWs of today can be traced back to the earliest days of networked
computers (for an in-depth overview of this history see Sadler, 2011). In the early
1960s, PLATO (Programmed Logic for AutomatedTeaching Operations) was developed
at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. While PLATO is often thought of
as a system designed to provide behaviourist learning activities (more than 15,000
hours of such activities were developed), it was also the birthplace of many tools that
we now take for granted, including ‘email, newsgroups, real-time chat, multiplayer
games, distance learning, audio, high-resolution graphics, and touch-screen interfaces,
a quarter-century before the birth of the Web’ (Silberman, 1997
, para. 1).
As computer networks began to develop in the 1970s, some programmers saw the
potential for this technology to engage in gaming, resulting in the creation of new game
environments like Colossal Cave Adventure (1975) and Zork (1977). This was followed
by the creation of a new environment by Roy Trubshaw (1978) called a Multi-User
Dungeon (MUD). This environment included responses by the computer program in
reaction to actions taken by the player (all text-based), but added a new element –
interaction with other human players in the setting. Over time, these environments
continued to develop, evolving into MOOs (MUD, Object-Oriented) that allowed the
owner of the space (or people designated by the owner) to make changes in the space
itself – they could add new rooms or objects into those rooms. Although these were
all, once again, text-based environments, this change brought many teachers into the
ﬁeld, with many education-oriented MOOs created for chat and collaboration. What we
now call VWs began to take on a more familiar form in 1986, with the introduction of
Habitat, created by Lucasﬁlm.This was a two-dimensional environment, but it included
a graphical interface in which users moved about via their avatars on the screen, with
the avatars able to communicate via text chat.
Although virtual environments focused entirely on role play (e.g., World of Warcraft)
are not the focus of this chapter, they do have possible applications for language learners
(see Thorne, 2008 for more discussion on this; also Lai, Ni & Zhao, this volume).
The design and set-up of many VWs today – though not always speciﬁcally stated in
the program literature – are aimed at a particular age range as shown in Figure 9.2. As
might be expected, the VWs that are aimed at a younger audience (e.g., Poptropica,
Club Penguin) have more restrictions and safeguards for their users than those aimed at
adults. In Club Penguin, for example, parents may choose from two options regarding
how their children can communicate with other avatars in the world: ultimate safe
chat or standard safe chat. In addition, Club Penguin also has on-site moderators who
monitor both chat and the activities of players. This is a feature shared by a number
of VWs aimed at younger users, such as Panfu (see Figure 9.3) where players can
communicate via open chat, but (as with Club Penguin) chat communication is ﬁltered
so that inappropriate words cannot enter the environment and chat is only allowed
when moderators are present.
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 163
250
200
150
100
50
0
2,5
8
27
6
45
55
40
44
220
20
20
23
3,5
6
10
170
22
116
50
70
70
eRepublic
25
and
up
20
to
25
15–20
13
to
15
10
to
13
8
to
10
5
to
8
Utherverse
Second Life
SmallWorlds
Dofus
IMVU
Gaia
WeeWorld
Habbo
Girl Sense
GoSupermodel
Stardoll
Moshi Monsters
Neopets
Club Penguin
Panfu
Buildabearville
Poptropica
Chapatiz
Jumpstart
FooPets
FIGURE 9.2 Most popular VWs by age level in Q2 2011 (KZERO, 2011).
FIGURE 9.3 Castle courtyard in Panfu.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
164
Some VWs, such as the popular Poptropica (or Club Penguin, with Ultimate Safe Chat)
only allow their users to communicate via the scripted chat options in order to ensure
that their young users remain safe. From an educational standpoint, this has the
beneﬁt of adding a strong safety factor, as well as providing language for the students
in the form of the pre-set language options. However, for language learners beyond
the elementary level the restrictions on language in the ultimate safe chat from Club
Penguin or the scripted chat options in Poptropica may have the effect of limiting the
variety of language practice that may take place. While this is potentially detrimental
for communicative language learning, many of the VWs aimed at younger learners
also include game and/or learning elements, though some of these are only available
to paid members. For example, Panfu members (even free ones) have access to a
number of fun learning games (CALL rather than CMC-based) at their underwater
school, including basic lessons in Spanish.
Until recently, very few of the popular VWs were aimed at girls. Nevertheless, as
competition among these environments has grown, and as the number of users – both
male and female – has exploded a variety of VWs speciﬁcally aimed at girls have been
created. As was shown in Figure 9.2, the three most popular VWs at this time in the 13
to 15 age range are all aimed at that audience: Girl Sense, GoSupermodel and Stardoll.
While most VWs still have a majority of male users, it is the case now that some of the
most popular ones, such as Habbo, have a majority of female users (Chappell, 2011)
and the number of female users in VWs is increasing overall, a pattern that should not
be surprising given the similar history in internet usage over the last two decades.
Research on virtual worlds
Just as modern VWs are relatively new phenomena, the research taking place on
them is still developing. For an overview of the ﬁeld, there are three books which may
provide a deeper understanding of how VWs may aid in the learning process. Higher
Education in Virtual Worlds: Teaching and Learning in Second Life (Molka-Danielsen
& Deutschmann, 2009) and Learning and Teaching in the Virtual World of Second Life
(Wankel & Kingsley, 2009) are both excellent edited volumes with a number of studies
on the topic. Virtual Worlds and Language Learning: From Theory to Practice (Sadler,
2011) also provides an in-depth examination of the role of VWs in language learning.
As discussed earlier, VWs are primarily social environments, and share some of
the same characteristics as other forms of computer-mediated communication. It is
not unexpected, then, that researchers have documented some of the same beneﬁts
for language learners in VWs as have been discussed for both asynchronous and
synchronous CMC tools such as email, message boards, texting, instant messaging,
voice chats and video chat. As might be expected given their nature, a number of
researchers have discussed the potential for VWs for encouraging collaboration (e.g.,
Ball & Pearce, 2009; Bani et al., 2009; Brown & Bell, 2004; Churchill & Snowdon, 1998;
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 165
Dillenbourg, Schneider & Syntenta, 2002; Price & Rogers, 2004; Roussou, 2004; Sadler,
2009a, 2009b; Shaffer, Squire, Halverson & Gee, 2004; Skiba, 2007).This focus on the
collaborative nature of VWs should not come as a surprise since they are designed
to be social and collaborative environments. From a theoretical perspective this is in
keeping with Vygotsky’s Zone of Proximal Development (ZPD) (1978), which maintains
that ‘human learning presupposes a speciﬁc social nature and a process by which
children grow into the intellectual life of those around them’ (p. 88). This social nature
of learning (and VWs) means that in real-life interaction (or in VW interaction) ‘children
are [therefore] capable of doing much more in collective activity’ (p. 88).This issue was
conﬁrmed by Bystrom and Barﬁeld (1999), who found that their students were able to
complete tasks much better when working with a partner. Steinkuehler (2004) had a
similar ﬁnding in her research on cooperation in MMOGs.
Researchers have also found that VWs can lessen learner anxiety, most often
attributed to two factors: the potential for delayed communication and the inﬂuence
of the avatar. Since VWs (and many forms of CMC in general) allow time for students
‘to more completely formulate their thoughts as they respond to the class discussion’,
they may feel less pressure in the environment (Childress & Braswell, 2006, p. 188).
This is particularly true since mostVWs that allow for oral communication (e.g., Second
Life) also have text-based chat, which permits the user more time to read the incoming
communication and to compose outgoing messages. An additional factor in explaining
this decrease in pressure is the play component that is integral to a VW (whether
that play is in the form of chat, role play, or VW-based computer games within the
environment). As mentioned by Brown and Bell (2004), VWs may also aid in helping
‘communities of players to form who exchange new activities and forms of play with
each other’ (p. 357).
The lessening of anxiety and the play aspect of VWs also seem to be supported
by one of the key component of a VW – the avatar. Because players in VWs are
represented by avatars (the type and appearance often partially determined by the
VW), they are able, in essence, to be whoever (or whatever) they would like to be.
This has the effect of helping the individuals controlling those avatars to ‘loosen . . .
up a bit’ (Love, Ross & Wilhelm, 2009, p. 68), while also allowing them ‘to experiment
with new and powerful identities’ (Shaffer et al., 2004, p. 6). A language learner who
might be shy in a traditional classroom can hide behind a mask (avatar) of his own
choosing in a VW, resulting in the conﬁdence to communicate more than he would
otherwise. The ‘personality’ of the avatar with which a language learner is interacting
may also inﬂuence the motivation and participation of the learner, especially for very
young learners (as will be discussed in the case study).
As mentioned earlier in this chapter, there has been relatively little research
accomplished at this point which investigates how, exactly, VWs are being used for
language learning and teaching.Thorne (2008) looked at how language was used by two
gamers in the MMORPG World of Warcraft (WoW). One of the gamers was from the
United States while the other was based in the Ukraine. In his case study he found that
the game environment provided abundant opportunities for natural language production
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
166
that – enhanced by the game environment – resulted in complex interactions and a
variety of complex usages of language. Faivre (2009) implemented a semester-length
project which utilized Second Life in a business class designed for non-native speakers
of English, requiring her students to work with business owners in Second Life to design
business models for them. She found that this work required a wide variety of English
usage for her students that went well beyond that which would normally be used in a
traditional classroom environment. Finally, Sadler (2011) conducted a survey examining
language use and learning in SL.This survey (with 237 respondents from SL) found that
over 50% of the participants either sometimes or usually used some other language
than their ﬁrst while communicating in SL, and even 78% used another language at least
rarely. In addition, the survey takers used a wide variety of strategies for improving their
second language skills in SL, ranging from SL classrooms, to listening to audio chat and
joining groups. While research speciﬁcally examining language learning in VWs is still in
the early stages, these projects seem to indicate great potential for the technology.
Potential barriers to language learning in VWs
The fact that virtual worlds are largely a synchronous environment may create additional
problems in the time management (time zones, academic calendars) of any language
learning project that involves more than one partner. While these are restraints that are
common to any CMC medium, it is especially relevant for interaction in VWs. Similarly,
technical aspects and potential problems that are common to CALL or CMC language
learning projects may be exacerbated by the amount of storage and capacity of images
needed for VWs along with the fact that educational institutions (from primary onward)
often have high security measures in their internet management that render some
VWs inaccessible.
Moreover, the learning curve for VWs is higher than other CMC tools. For instance,
learners must not only know how to manipulate their avatar’s mobility, they must know
how to control the communicative settings that are audio, textual and gestural and
fully understand ‘geographical’ markings – and this is only for handling the avatar. If
the language learning project also includes building, the amount of time needed to
assimilate these skills is even higher.
At the level of primary education, much of the current work in virtual worlds and
primary education focuses on allowing children opportunities to design and create
spaces and virtual characters themselves, which may then become part of a wider
educational project (cf.Vertex Project, Fathom Project).This implies a need for funding –
which may come from the school or other public funding – or else will probably rely on
individual practices of teachers who try to take advantage of already existent virtual
environments or who are willing to ﬁnance VW language learning projects themselves.
Funded projects (which necessarily include a period of time for planning and building
the environment) risk being a one-time effort which ends once the money has run
out. There does not appear to be any systematic endeavours to make VWs an easily
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 167
accessible foreign language teaching tool, especially at the level of primary education
for this level. Further restrictions when working with young learners will be discussed
in the next section.
Primary education in virtual worlds:
To Rez or not to Rez?
According to a recent report for the Ofﬁce of Policy Analysis and Research, Georgia
Tech Research Institute, there were over 150 virtual worlds for children and youth
in 2008 (Pechar, 2008). The most common aim of virtual worlds for educational
purposes with children from kindergarten through the ﬁnal year of compulsory
education is ‘to expand the classroom and allow students to experience what they
would normally learn only out of a textbook’ (Pechar, 2008, p. 2). Common examples
in language learning include experiences that allow the students to receive and
give input in near-authentic situations that also represent cultural features of the
language use (e.g., a Spanish-guide for a tour down the Amazon river (Pechar,
2008).The underlying principle is that the motivating learning environments foment
learner engagement (Dede, Clarke, Ketelhut, Nelson & Bowman, 2006; Squires,
2002).
There are, however, caveats continuously brought to the fore in most literature
on ‘virtual education’ for young people, principally the threat of ‘cyber predators’
(Bugeja, 2007) and the easy access and potential exposure to mature, adult-only
virtual content as well as concerns about pupil interaction – bullying, verbal abuse
and inappropriate behaviour, facilitated through the very technologies being used to
create the environment (e.g., audio or text chats). Other impediments are the costs
in time, effort and money (educators must ‘buy’ virtual land and spend time and effort
‘building’ the environment or else use ‘public’ land, where they can no longer control
the environment or the visitors to the virtual location).
Finally, it seems that for many primary education teachers there is a question of
relevance.The complexity of foreign language use, while trying to induct young children
into virtual worlds, may seem too daunting for many foreign or second language teachers
(Dooly, 2009; Schwartz, 2008). Other problems for self-created virtual materials fall
within the speciﬁcities of the young language learner: materials should be of short
duration, fall within their range of interests and topics, require minimal technological
skills (e.g., typing) and should not be primarily text-based – or for very young learners,
should have little or no written input. Additionally, young learners tend to be beginners
in foreign language learning, while
collaborative use of the Internet usually requires communication at quite a
sophisticated level. An application for use by young beginners must somehow
contrive a situation where young learners can use what language they have in a
realistic, meaningful and communicative way. (Milton & Garbi, 2000, p. 287)
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
168
Still, as Merchant (2007) has pointed out, many educators are coming to the conclusion
that new technology – in particular virtual worlds (see Milton & Garbi, 2000) might help
motivate reluctant young language learners, and to help ensure meaningful contexts
for multiple literacy/ies – especially since these environments are very text, audio,
digital and visually oriented (Dooly & Hauck, 2012). Taking an educational ethnographic
approach, this case study aims to outline one such endeavour.
Project outline
The applied linguistics research project, funded by the Spanish Ministry of Education
(Project Title: PADS, EDU2010–17859), aimed to design, experiment and evaluate
telecollaborative Project-Based Language Learning (PBLL) approaches in primary
education. The project was ﬁrst piloted in the academic year 2010–11, based on an
internet-mediated exchange between a school in Catalonia, Spain and a school in
Ontario, Canada. The pedagogical design and subsequent research was triangulated
and coordinated by two teacher educators from the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona.
The students from Catalonia were 6-year-old beginners in English as a Foreign Language
(EFL) and the students from Canada were 8-year-old students, working from a focus
of language arts (in English). In order to break away from a ‘language-only’ focus, the
project was deliberately designed to be cross-disciplinary so that multiple competences
would come into play.The research aimed to see what, if any, development took place in
various literacies – linguistic (e.g., communicative competences), digital competences,
artistic competences and intercultural competences.
The main online activities were divided into three phases. The ﬁrst (introductory)
phase consisted of video introductions by the students (recorded and edited by the
students themselves; a Q&A forum based on the introductory videos to work on language
production and comprehension as well as helping to contextualize learning about the
‘other’ and information exchange concerning their shared topic (described in phase 2).
Phase 2 was based on the building up of shared knowledge. Two local artists (one
from Catalonia, Joan Abelló, and one from Ontario, Rob Gonsalves) were chosen as
the focus of study for both groups.1
After studying their chosen artist’s techniques,
lives and selected paintings, the students exchanged information about the artist with
their online partners. The information was used to build a virtual art gallery in Second
Life where paintings by both artists (and a few others for added complexity) were
displayed (see Figure 9.4). Although Second Life is not a VW that is designed for use
for children, this environment was chosen for several reasons. First, it is very easy to
build custom environments in Second Life, especially given the wide range of items
available either for free or to buy in that VW. Second, one of the authors of this paper
was able to set up the gallery used for this project high above an island in Second Life
so that there was a secure space for the interaction. Finally, the children participating
in the project were not ‘in-world’ themselves, so there was no potential for them to go
to other areas in Second Life that might have been inappropriate for them.
In the ﬁnal phase students created an e-book together, based on the ﬁctional idea
that the artists had become friends. The artists’ adventures were inspired by the
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 169
paintings they had studied (e.g., depictions of a beach, Le Moulin Rouge) in the virtual
gallery.
For this chapter, we will focus on the activities in the virtual art gallery which
were designed to promote students’ construction of knowledge in several areas.
The students in this project gathered in the classroom in front of their teachers
and a projection screen which showed the virtual art gallery in SL. An avatar in the
form of Snoopy was in the art gallery (controlled by one of the authors unseen in
the back of the classroom), and the students ﬁrst had to greet their ‘guide’, then
give Snoopy directions to walk around the art gallery. This technique was extremely
effective in the sense that in the ﬁrst half of the sessions the students were quite
unaware that Snoopy was being controlled by the researcher. Instead, they seemed
convinced that their oral commands given to Snoopy on the screen were having an
immediate effect on the actions taken by the avatar (see transcript and analysis of
session 1 below).
The ﬁrst session consisted of a tour to have a look around the gallery. In the next
session the students helped Snoopy ﬁnd a particular painting (from their local artist)
described by the teacher (e.g., ‘in this painting there is a large statue’). The following
sessions consisted of teams giving descriptions to their classmates so that they could
then ‘help’ Snoopy ﬁnd the painting (Figure 9.5), at times belonging to their local artist
and at other times belonging to the Canadian artist. Thus, the students were slowly
introduced to and became familiar with the work of both artists.
In other sessions, students were read descriptions from their exchange partners
about the other artist’s paintings and, once more, they gave instructions to Snoopy to
walk around the virtual gallery to ﬁnd the right painting according to the description
given. By the end of the session sequences, students had taken over the role of
FIGURE 9.4 Virtual art gallery in Second Life.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
170
giving descriptions, giving instructions and eventually, ‘manipulating’ the Snoopy
avatar.
During this phase, the learners assimilated language competences such as giving
greetings, giving and understanding directions and commands as well as particular
lexicon associated with the paintings in the art gallery (e.g., rocks, windmill, beach,
street, tower, descriptions of people, etc.). Both local artists were chosen in part
because they depicted the local geography as well as places they had visited (e.g.,
Moulin Rouge in Paris, Easter Island,Trafalgar Square), thus promoting world knowledge
and allowing the introduction of map-reading to the 6-year-olds. The students also
came to recognize the two artists’ main works of art and to distinguish between their
techniques and other artists (decoys in the virtual art gallery) as well as learning about
cities associated with the two artists.
Data and analysis
As mentioned above, this case study takes an educational ethnography perspective.The
compiled data consisted of: video and audio recordings of all the sessions (transcribed),
FIGURE 9.5 Students take over control of Snoopy.
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 171
collection of speciﬁc output from the students, evaluative feedback from the teachers
(all the disciplines), student self-evaluation of learning and post-PBLL recall activities.
It is not possible to enter into a detailed description and analysis of all the transcription
extracts, however, departing from a perspective that ‘cognition is as much a socially
situated activity as it is an individual phenomenon’ (Markee, 2011, p. 604), a sequential
analysis of language learning behaviours, enacted in the language learners’ different
speech events during the PBLL exchange, shows language skills evolving during the
whole process.
Taking recurrency as a factor, the examples given here illustrate excerpts of data that
are being analysed according to an adaptation of Markee’s ‘learning behavior tracking
(LBT)’ methodology (2008, 2011). As Markee (2011) points out, while most conversation
analysis studies take a ‘micro-longitudinal time frame’ (p. 605), studies have been
carried out that focus on ‘realtime language learning behaviors that occur in different
speech events . . . over more extended periods of time’ (p. 605). LBT proposes not only
focusing on extended time periods of language learning behaviours but also ‘tracking’
demonstrations of the language learner’s orientation to details of talk through different
speech events. However, considering the difﬁculties of this type of tracking in young
language learners (limited proﬁciency in the target language and limited resources for
demonstrating orientation of their own cognitive processes), the tracking here focuses
on recurrent patterns of language use that are clearly situated in response to the social
context (in this case a VW), versus what might be called ‘teacher prompting’ in the
format of initiation response feedback (IRF
, see Sinclair & Coulthard, 1992). Recurrent
patterns of learning behaviour have been found and there is ample evidence of what
Barab, Hay and Yagamata-Lynch (2001) call ‘episodes of action’ deﬁned as the ‘minimal
meaningful ontology for capturing cognition in situ’ (p. 64).
Session 1: Introduction to virtual art gallery
Teacher: Marc, could you tell Snoopy (.) Snoopy go left.2
Marc: Snoopy go left.
(Avatar moves)
Teacher: Ahh_ look. Stop! And Snoopy stops.
(students gasp)
[. . .]
Teacher: Snoopy speaks in English. Alright. Listen to me. If you want Snoopy to walk
(imitates walking) you need to say (writes on board the word ‘straight’) go_
Students (several, unidentiﬁed): strit (mispronunciation of straight)
Students in chorus: Go straight on.
Teacher: Repeat!
Students in chorus: Go straight on. Go straight on. Go straight on. (begin to take on
chanting rhythm).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
172
The initial reaction of these young learners (a loud gasp of pleased surprise, in unison),
when introduced to ‘Snoopy’ support Love, et al.’s assertion that the inﬂuence of the
avatar in VWs can lessen learner anxiety (2009), even if the students themselves did
not create the avatar to represent themselves. The students’ reaction (throughout all
the sessions as will be demonstrated further on) also supports previous literature that
highlights the role VWs have in reducing student anxiety through ‘play’ (Brown & Bell,
2004; Roussou, 2004).The young learners were eager to ‘communicate’ with ‘Snoopy’
and unlike in previous sessions of more teacher-fronted classroom interaction where
some of the students were more unwilling to answer, in this case the students were
not reluctant to ‘demonstrate’ their language knowledge.
Inevitably, in session 1, the students need substantial ‘scaffolding’ by the teacher in
order to give the Snoopy avatar simple directions. By session 3 (which took place the
following week), however, the students are better able to ‘help’ Snoopy get around the
gallery and peer collaboration replaces teacher intervention.
In the previous sessions, the young language learners had spent considerable
time listening to descriptions of the paintings, read out to them by the teacher
or the researchers in order to ‘guide’ Snoopy around the gallery until they found
the described painting. (The descriptions were adaptations of texts written by the
students in Spain and Canada to help their exchange partners learn about their
artists’ work.)
Following the questions and descriptions given (extract session 5), the students
were easily able to identify the painting in the virtual art gallery and give Snoopy
directions to the painting without any prompting from the teacher. As Childress and
Braswell (2006) have argued, the virtual gallery provided the young language learners
with an opportunity to observe how others interacted with the avatar (exposure to
contextualized communicative events) as well as the possibility of exploring new
elements (e.g., a virtual art gallery with famous paintings and the possibility of
interaction with a fantasy ﬁgure – Snoopy) which are not easily available in real life.
Session 3: Student scaffolding of interaction
Pau: Snoopy go left. (Snoopy moves left and stops). Left. (Snoopy moves left again and
keeps walking) Stop. Snoopy go str-str_ straight on. (Snoopy goes straight on and then
stops at the wall).
Teacher: continue Joan.
Joan: Snoopy go left.
Several students: no no no (shouting)
Joan: Snoopy go right
Other students: NO go straight on
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 173
The use of the virtual art gallery also provided an excellent means of lexical repetition
that did not become tiresome and repetitive for the learners and yet allowed them
opportunities for ‘incidental learning’ of contextualized vocabulary, combined with the
possibility of rehearsing the target language through oral comprehension and ‘mini’
sessions of social interaction – all suitable to their age and language level.
In the ﬁnal session (in the third week), students took turns controlling the avatar
(Figure 9.5), which meant that they were not only able to give instructions; they were
able to comprehend instructions given to them.
The researchers asked the teachers to keep an online diary during the whole process.
The input was generally positive (see Figure 9.6).
However, to triangulate these data, these were then followed by interviews from
which a general consensus emerged that student knowledge had been assimilated,
not only in the speciﬁc subjects of each teacher but also in connection with other
ﬁelds. This was correlated by questionnaires that the students had ﬁlled in at the end
Session 5: Students give description
Teacher: you have to describe this painting [. . . ] top secret OK don’t copy you (.) come
Lara (.) come here (shows students the picture they have to describe). [. . .] you have
to describe this painting (.) is it Rob Gonsalvez or Joan Abelló
Student: Rob Gonsalves
Teacher: Rob Gonsalves yes
(teacher helps the students formulate the description by showing them objects that
they could name, e.g. rocks, beach, boys swimming. Students from the other team
listen to the description and then have to ask questions for more information. Only one
question was asked.)
[. .. ]
Student from other team: What’s the weather like?
Lara: It’s cloudy
Final session: Students control Snoopy
Teacher: Ethan (indicating Ethan’s turn to give instructions to Snoopy)
Ethan: (whispers)
Teacher (repeating Ethan’s answer for the rest of the class): Go left Snoopy
(Paula, manipulating the avatar, mouths ‘left’ as she moves Snoopy with the
keyboard)
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
174
of the telecollaborative exchange in which they had to answer the question: What did
I learn? (see Figure 9.7).
Students were able to enumerate concepts, notions and speciﬁc knowledge
related to both content and language (see transcriptions from compiled examples in
Figure 9.8).
It is relevant to note the students’ burgeoning intercultural competence as they are
evidently beginning to recognize and situate ‘the other’ who lives at a great distance
from them; a cognitively demanding task for children of 6. The development of social
awareness can be complemented by language learning, as young children move away
from a main interest in self to more social awareness of the other (McKay, 2006). For
a young child, learning a foreign language implies venturing beyond their experiences
in their ﬁrst (or second) language towards new possibilities of identity and subjectivity
FIGURE 9.6 Extract from teacher’s online diary.
FIGURE 9.7 Student self-evaluation sheet.
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 175
(Carr, 2003), as demonstrated by their use of English with the monolingual Snoopy and
their understanding of the language varieties of their Canadian counterparts.
Still, language learning and introduction of intercultural competences in very young
learners is not often interrogated and there is a need to delve more into what it means
to young children to discover that there are other ways of speaking and communicating
and that these ways are often linked to cultures with other values and symbols different
from their own (Doyé & Hurrell, 1997). Given that VWs can be considered as yet
another ‘culture’ when working with students to develop Intercultural Competences
(Dooly, 2011), the ways in which VWs can contribute to this is also a venue for further
exploration.
A month after the project had ended, the researchers returned to the classroom to
see if the students could recall and apply some of the knowledge in contexts different
from the ones where it was originally learned. One of the activities the students were
asked to do was related to the learning associated with the Second Life virtual gallery.
Students were given a map and asked to give the Harlequin3
instructions on how to
arrive to the local museum (Figure 9.9). The students were able to tell the researcher
who was holding the pen and marking the trajectory on the map (see Figure 9.9) how
to get to the museum, using contextualized language ﬁrst learned and employed in the
virtual gallery.
FIGURE 9.8 Example from compiled student evaluations.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
176
FIGURE 9.9 Tracking of verbal directions on maps.
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 177
As illustrated, some students were more successful with this task than others with
the ﬁrst student drawing a fairly direct route between the two points on the map while
the second student took a more ‘scenic’ trip.
Pau shows comprehension of speciﬁc vocabulary related to concepts studied
during the interaction with Snoopy in the virtual gallery (colours, giving directions,
basic pedagogical instructions or classroom language) and is able to reiterate the
contextualized language learned during the previous sessions. He even ‘slips’ into
character and addresses the harlequin as Snoopy. Arguably, the telecollaborative
PBLL exchange facilitated cognition within a larger social context as the young learner
engaged with different online tools and virtual environments in order to construct new
knowledge (see Figure 9.10).
Conclusions
Several researchers in language acquisition propose that cognition and learning
processes must be understood within a paradigm that includes the individual, the
Session: Giving directions on a map
Researcher: First of all, can you take a red pen, a red pen
(Pau takes a red pen from box of coloured pens and looks at the researcher)
Researcher: perfect (.) write your name here (indicates place on the map)
(9 seconds pass while student writes name)
Researcher: now can I have the pen please (holds out hand; Pau hands her the pen)
Researcher: thank you (.) now look (.) here we have the harlequin (indicates the position
of the harlequin in the map) here we have the museum (indicates museum on map)
[Researcher repeats instructions until certain of comprehension]
Researcher: so the harlequin is here what does he do?
Pau: uh Snoopy (.) go straight on
Researcher (repeats while tracing the map) go straight on
Pau: go straight on go straight on stop
Researcher: stop (draws a large dot where the ‘harlequin’ stops then turns map to help
student maintain orientation) now let’s look here what do we have? NOW we’re here
and we want to go where?
Pau: Snoopy go (.) ehm (looks at researcher) ehm (.) snoopy go left
(sequence continues in similar pattern until the harlequin ‘reaches’ the museum)
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
178
environment and the ways in which participants use tools/artefacts in the environment
to assimilate new knowledge (Rüschoff & Ritter, 2001; Schwartz, 2008). This case
study of young language learners (with beginners’ knowledge of the target language)
demonstrates the way in which the use of a VW environment helped create a complex
interdependency between the young learners and various new technologies (as
artefacts) in long-term and shared knowledge-building activities. The design of the
interaction provided opportunities for the ‘5 Cs’, as outlined by the American Council
on Teaching of Foreign Languages for efﬁcient language learning processes to take
place: communication (i.e., students were able to practise oral production of the
foreign language), cultures (i.e., students were given glimpses into new cultures –
both virtual and real since the VW gallery provided insight into the Canadian artist’s
perspectives), connections (i.e., students were required to connect new language
knowledge with other content such as art, geography, topography and technology),
comparisons (i.e., students took ﬁrst steps towards developing new insight into ways
language can be used in online situations) and communities (i.e., the young language
learners were ‘safely’ introduced into a new online community, which as described
in the outline above is vastly multilingual and multicultural, as part of their classroom
experience).
FIGURE 9.10 Pau applies previously learned knowledge in new context.
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 179
As demonstrated in this chapter, using a VW – even in a limited manner – has the
potential to enrich the educational process in a number of important ways that are
not possible in a traditional classroom. VWs also make it possible to create a single
virtual space (in this case an art gallery) that has the potential to be used by partners
in locations around the world. For very young language learning beginners, VWs can
provide a highly engaging means to ‘contrive a situation where young learners can use
what language they have in a realistic, meaningful and communicative way’ (Milton &
Garbi, 2000, p. 287).
This chapter also demonstrates that this type of collaboration can be accomplished
with relatively little money (the art gallery was set up using materials already in the
possession of one of the researchers, with the only cost being the uploading of images
of art materials (approximately US$1.50 total) and without the need for extensive
technology. While this sort of collaboration has great potential when each student has
access to a computer and an avatar (especially for more advanced participants), in this
case only a single computer with an internet connection was required and a projector
was used to ‘bring’ the students into the art gallery. If necessary, the students could
have simply looked at the interaction on a regular computer monitor, though the larger
screen was very effective.
As discussed earlier in this chapter, there has been relatively little research performed
examining how language learners (whether young or older) use VWs in that process.
Further research is necessary in order to help overcome the barriers mentioned
previously. This means that this environment is wide open for future research, in both
qualitative and quantitative methodologies. A quick glance at the numbers illustrates this
point –VWs are increasingly more popular and are engaging for a wide range of ages and
proﬁles – billions of users testify to that.The potential for language learning (informally, as
highlighted by several researchers) as well as formally (as described here) is exponential
and requires further research in the language learning and teaching processes.There are
many areas and sub-areas of possible study: young language learners, adult language
learners, communicative and intercultural competences, the inﬂuence of gender on
interaction and language learning (real life and avatar gender), the use of VWs in blended
learning environments, VWs and cross-disciplinary language learning and academic
language learning in VWs, to name a few. Precisely because it is such a relatively new
ﬁeld and has had little exposure in more formal settings implies that much research has to
be done. Inside VWs there are promising and innovating horizons for future researchers
willing to explore this exciting new environment for language learning.
Notes
1 It is important to highlight that the project took place in a blended-learning environment
and combined several activities that were not language-oriented: a ﬁeld excursion to
an art museum, a ‘mini’ unit on transportation and experiments with different artistic
techniques.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
180
2 Participants’ names have been changed to protect their identity. Broad transcription has
been used. (.) signiﬁes approximately 1 second pause; _ indicates elongation of the last
sound.
3 A well-known sculpture by the local artist.
References
Ball, S., & Pearce, R. (2009). Inclusion beneﬁts and barriers of ‘once removed’
participation.
Bani, M., Genovesi, F
., Ciregia, E., Piscioneri, F
., Rapisarda, B., & Salvatori, E. (2009).
Learning by creating historical buildings. In J. Molka-Danielsen & M. Deutschmann
(Eds.), Learning and teaching in the virtual world of Second Life (pp. 125–44).
Trondheim: Tapir Academic Press.
Barab, S. A., Hay, K. E., & Yamagata-Lynch, L. C. (2001). Constructing networks of
action-relevant episode: An in situ research methodology. The Journal of Learning
Sciences, 10 (1/2), 36–112.
Brown, B., & Bell, M. (2004, November). CSCW at play: ‘There’ as a collaborative virtual
environment. Paper presented at the 2004 ACM Conference on Computer Supported
Cooperative Work, Chicago, Illinois.
Bugeja, M. (2007
, 14 September). Second thoughts about Second Life. The Chronicle of
Higher Education. Retrieved from http://chronicle.com/article/Second-Thoughts-About-
Second/46636/
Bystrom, K. E., & Barﬁeld, W. (1999). Collaborative task performance for learning using a
virtual world. Presence, 8(4), 435–48.
Carr, J. (2003). Culture through the looking class: An intercultural experiment in
sociolinguistics. In A. J. Liddicoat, S. Eisenchlas & S. Trevaskis (Eds.), Australian
perspectives on internationalising education (pp. 75–86). Melbourne: Language
Australia.
Chappell, B. (2011, April). 2011 social network analysis report – geographic – demographic
and trafﬁc data revealed. [Web log post]. Retrieved from www.ignitesocialmedia.com/s
ocial-media-stats/2011-social-network-analysis-report/#Habbo
Childress, M. D., & Braswell, R. (2006). Using massively multiplayer online role-playing
games for online learning. Distance Education, 27(2), 187–96.
Churchill, E. F
., & Snowdon, D. (1998). Collaborative virtual environments: An introductory
review of issues and systems. Virtual Reality, 3, 3–15.
Dede, C., Clarke, J., Ketelhut, D., Nelson, B., & Bowman, C. (2006, April). Fostering
motivation, learning and transfer in multi-user virtual environments. Paper presented at
the 2006 AERA conference: San Francisco, CA.
Dillenbourg, P
., Schneider, D., & Synteta, P
. (2002, October). Virtual learning environments.
Paper presented at the 3rd Hellenic Conference information & communication
technologies in education. Rhodes: Greece.
Dooly, M. (2009). New competencies in a new era? Examining the impact of a teacher
training project. Recall, 21(3), 352–69.
— (2011). Crossing the intercultural borders into 3rd space culture(s): Implications
for teacher education in the twenty-ﬁrst century. Language and Intercultural
Communication, 11(4), 319–37
.
Dooly, M., & Hauck, M. (2012). Researching multimodal communicative competence
in video and audio telecollaborative encounters. In M. Dooly & R. O’Dowd (Eds.),
LANGUAGE LEARNING IN VIRTUAL WORLDS 181
Researching online interaction and exchange in foreign language education: Methods
and issues (pp. 134–60). Bern: Peter Lang.
Doyé, P
., & Hurrell, A. (Eds.) (1997). Foreign language education in primary schools (age
5/6 to 10/11). Language policies. Council for Cultural Co-operation of the Council of
Europe. Strasbourg: Council of Europe Press.
Faivre, S. (2009). ESL online, a curriculum project: How to wire students to today’s
educational grid using Second Life and other internet resources (Unpublished MA
Thesis). The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
KZERO. (2011). KZERO Worldwide. Retrieved 15 November 2011, from www.kzero.co.uk/#
Love, E., Ross, S. C., & Wilhelm, W. (2009). Opportunities and challenges for business
education in Second Life. In C. Wankel, & J. Kingsley (Eds.), Higher education in virtual
worlds: Teaching and learning in Second Life (pp. 65–82). Bingley: Emerald.
Markee, N. (2008). Toward a learning behavior tracking methodology for CA-for-SLA.
Applied Linguistics, 29, 404–27
.
— (2011). Doing, and justifying doing, avoidance. Journal of Pragmatics, 43, 602–15.
McKay, P
. (2006). Assessing young language learners. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Merchant, G. (2007). Writing the future. Literacy, 41(3), 1–19.
Milton, J., & Garbi, A. (2000). VIRLAN: Collaborative foreign language learning on the
internet for primary age children: Problems and a solution. Educational Technology &
Society, 3(3), 286–92. mmorpg.com. (2010, 20 November 2011). MMORPG. Retrieved
20 January 2011, from www.mmorpg.com/
Molka-Danielsen, J., & Deutschmann, M. (Eds.) (2009). Learning and teaching in the
virtual world of Second Life. Trondheim: Tapir Academic Press.
Panichi, L., & Deutschmann, M. (2012). Language learning in Virtual Worlds – Research
issues and methods. In M. Dooly & R. O’Dowd (Eds.), Researching online interaction
and exchange in FL education (pp. 206–33). Telecollaboration in Education Series. Bern:
Peter Lang.
Pechar, E. (2008). Virtual worlds and education. Ofﬁce of Policy Analysis and Research,
Georgia Tech Research Institute.
Price, S., & Rogers, Y. (2004). Let’s get physical: The learning beneﬁts of interacting in
digitally augmented physical spaces. Computers and Education, 43, 137–51.
Roussou, M. (2004). Learning by doing and learning through play: An exploration of
interactivity in virtual environments for children. AMC Computers in Entertainment,
2 (1), 1–23.
Rüschoff, B., & Ritter, M. (2001). Technology-enhanced language learning: Construction of
knowledge and template-based learning in the foreign language classroom. Computer
Assisted Language Learning, 14, 219–32.
Sadler, R. (May, 2009a). Strange new worlds: Opportunities and cautions in virtual world
research. Keynote Address at Illinois Language and Linguistics Society 1: Language
Online, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL.
— (2009b). Can you build this? Virtual construction for language learning in Second Life.
In L. Stone & C. Wilson-Duff (Eds.), Task-based III: Expanding the range of tasks with
online resources (pp. 212–26). IALT.
— (2011). Virtual worlds and language learning: From theory to practice. Volume 2.
Telecollaboration in education. Bern: Peter Lang.
Schwartz, N. (2008). Exploiting the use of technology to teach: The value of distributed
cognition. Journal of Research on Technology in Education, 40(3), 389–404.
Shaffer, D. W., Squire, K. R., Halverson, R., & Gee, J. P
. (2004). Video games and the
future of learning. Madison: University of Wisconsin-Madison and Academic Advanced
Distributed Learning Co-Laboratory.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
182
Silberman, S. (1997
, March). Physics in the 1960s: PLATOFest. Retrieved from http://
physics.illinois.edu/history/PLATOfest.asp
Sinclair, J., & Coulthard, M. (1992). Towards an analysis of discourse. In M. Coulthard (Ed.),
Advances in spoken discourse analysis (pp. 1–34). London: Routledge.
Skiba, D. J. (2007). Nursing education 2.0: Second Life. Nursing Education Perspectives,
28(3), 156–7
.
Squires, K. (2002). ‘Cultural Framing of Computer/Video Games’ Game Studies available at
http://gamestudies.org/0102/squire/ last accessed 12th May, 2007
.
Steinkuehler, C. A. (2004). Learning in massively multiplayer online games. Paper
presented at the International Conference on Learning Sciences, Santa Monica,
California.
Thorne, S. L. (2008). Transcultural communication in open internet environments and
massively multiplayer online games. In S. Sieloff Magnan (Ed.), Mediating discourse
online (pp. 305–27). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Vygotsky, L. (1978). Mind in society: The development of higher mental processes.
Cambridge: Harvard.
Wankel, C., & Kingsley, J. (Eds.) (2009). Higher education in virtual worlds: Teaching and
learning in Second Life (pp. 47–63). Bingley: Emerald Group Publishing Limited.
Weinbaum, S. (1935). Pygmalion’s Spectacles. Wonder stories: Project Gutenberg.
Retrieved 15 July 2010, from www.gutenberg.org/etext/22893
10
Digital games and language
learning
Chun Lai, Ruhui Ni and Yong Zhao
Summary
The emergence of digital games has elevated game-based language learning to a new
level. In this chapter we ﬁrst review innovative uses of stand-alone video games,
commercial massive multi-player role playing-games (MMORPGs) and 3D collaborative
virtual environments in language learning. We examine issues of pedagogical
adaptation of these three types of commerical off the shelf game (COTS), and highlight
the importance of aligning the selection of the COTS with the intended instructional
purposes. We also note the importance of providing appropriate pedagogical support
to maximize learning in gaming environments. We assess design issues for serious
educational language learning games and simulations, such as balancing entertaining
and learning and ﬁtting the game into educational contexts. We conclude the chapter
with a discussion on the future development of digital game-based language learning
and potential research directions.
Introduction
Games and simulations have been considered valuable in language teaching for their
potential to enable experiential and discovery learning, transform drill-based learning
to context-based acquisition and lower affective ﬁlters (Crookall, 2007; Sorensen &
Meyer, 2007; Tomlinson & Masuhara, 2009; Wright, Betteridge & Buckby, 2006).
The emergence of digital games, especially recent developments in MMORPGs
and social virtual spaces, has elevated game-based language learning to a new level
by extending games from the physical arena to the virtual context. The claimed
beneﬁts of games have been further expanded: that goal-directed tasks/quests in
digital games enable task-based language teaching (Peterson, 2010a; Purushotma,
Thorne & Wheatley, 2009); that increased needs for collaboration encourage
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
184
the development of collaborative social relationships and collaborative learning
(Dalgarno & Lee, 2010; Peterson, 2010a); that masking of identity of the learners
reduces anxiety and encourages greater risk-taking and creative use of language
(Rankin, McNeal, Shute & Gooch, 2008; Shih & Yang, 2008); and that cohesive and
meaningful contexts create situated and immersive learning experience (Chen &
Huang, 2010; Gee, 2008).
The language education ﬁeld has been quick to seize the various beneﬁts of digital
games for language learning. Recent years have seen a great number of initiatives
and the innovative use of various genres of digital games, as well as the creative use
of gaming for language learning. These initiatives are based either on the adaption
of COTS or on speciﬁcally designed educational language learning games and
simulations. In this chapter, we will ﬁrst review examples of innovative digital game-
based learning, then examine issues around the pedagogical adaption of COTS and the
design of educational language learning games and simulations, and conclude with a
discussion on the future development of digital game-based language learning and
research directions.
Emerging initiatives on digital game-based learning
Traditional stand-alone video games, such as PS2 music games, adventure games and
interactive ﬁction games, have continued to be used to enhance language development
(Chen & Huang, 2010; Chen & Yang, 2011; deHaan, Reed & Kuwada, 2010; Lu, Lou,
Papa & Chung, 2011; Ranalli, 2008). Innovative uses of digital gaming techniques are
also emerging. For instance, Wii technology has been used for Chinese character
learning (Hao et al., 2010), and video-capture virtual reality techniques have been used
to enable physical interactions with virtual objects in English learning games (Yang,
Chen & Jeng, 2010). There are also innovative pedagogical uses of extant games
and gaming concepts for language learning. For instance, Catel (2008) imported
characters from a French novel into the simulation game, the Sims, and engaged
students in acting out the everyday life of these characters in the gaming environment.
A European Commission Comenius Project entitled, ARGuing for Multilingual
Motivation in Web 2.0, borrowed the concept of Alternate Reality Game, a game
genre originally used as a marketing tool, and used Moodle as the multilingual gaming
platform to engage 14–16-year-old students from 6 European countries in solving
quests or puzzles collaboratively. In the process of co-questing, students searched
information online, engaged in cross-cultural and multilingual communications, and
updated narratives, videos, blogs that represent themselves and their respective
cultures (Connolly, Stansﬁeld & Hainey, 2011).
In addition to stand-alone digital games, commercial MMORPGs, such as World
of Warcraft and Ever Quest II (Oliver & Carr, 2009; Rankin, Gold & Gooch, 2006;
Rankin, McNeal et al., 2008 ; Thorne, 2008) and extant 3D collaborative virtual
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 185
environments, such as Second Life and Active Worlds (Deutschmann, Panichi &
Molka-Danielsen, 2009; Koenraad, 2008), have been increasingly adapted to create
immersive language and culture learning experience. For instance, World of Warcraft
(WoW) has been used for a distance-learning project that connected middle school
EFL learners in China and US English-speaking graduate students to enhance the
learners’ English communicative abilities (Waters, 2007). Tasks or cross-cultural
quests have been designed in 3D collaborative virtual environments, such as Active
Worlds and Quest Atlantis, to engage monolingual or tandem language learners in
collaborative language and culture learning (Peterson, 2006; Zheng, Young, Wagner
& Brewer, 2009). In addition, various approaches have been initiated to integrate the
use of commercial social virtual spaces into classroom language teaching. Examples
include supplementing in-class grammar instruction and communicative activities
with out-of-class co-questing on Second Life (Clark, 2008), using open-source 3D
virtual environment development software such as OpenSim to create interesting
scenario-based tasks that align with the language curriculum (Chen & Su, 2011), and
engaging students to co-create a virtual space within Second Life based on a novel
they are studying (Balkun, Zedeck & Trotta, 2009).
Adapting extant games and gaming environments is one approach to capitalize
on the potentials of digital games for language learning. Educators are also
developing 3D serious gaming environments to foster various aspects of language
development. For example, a 3D multi-user virtual environment, Croquelandia,
has been developed to facilitate Spanish interlanguage pragmatic development
and to enhance metapragmatic strategies (Sykes, 2009; Sykes & Cohen, 2009).
A Web-based MMORPG, Zon, creates an immersive learning experience for
Chinese-as-Second-Language learners (Zhao & Lai, 2009). Moreover, the use
of intelligent tutoring systems to construct immersive learning environments for
cross-cultural learning has also been developing quickly. Often cited examples are
Tactical Language and Culture Training System (Johnson, 2007; Johnson & Wu,
2008) and ELECT BiLAT, where learners are confronted with embodied pedagogical
agents to negotiate culture-embedded tasks. Educators are not only developing
online serious language learning gaming environments, but also combining
these virtual environments with Web 2.0 tools to capitalize on the affordances of
various interaction formats for language learning. For instance, the International
NIAFLAR Project (Network Interaction in Foreign Language Acquisition and
Research Project) blended a video Web conferencing environment and a 3D virtual
environment for better communication purposes. The VEC3D project connected a
researcher-constructed virtual world and webpage as an in-group interaction platform
with open virtual worlds, Active Worlds and Second Life, for access to the target
language and community (Shih, 2010).
Thus, the burgeoning ﬁeld of digital games and language education yields a rich
repertoire of innovative use of digital games for language learning. How to make the
most out of such environments then becomes the focal attention. In the section below,
we will examine current research ﬁndings on the adaption of COTS.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
186
Adaption of commercial oﬀ the shelf (COTS) games
Language educators have been adapting three types of commercial digital platforms
for language learning: video games, MMORPGs and collaborative virtual environments.
These three types of commercial digital platforms have proven to possess different
affordances for language learning.
Learning from COTS
Commercial stand-alone video games have been used for language learning for
decades (Coleman, 1990; Taylor, 1990). Studies have found that playing commercial
video games are beneﬁcial to vocabulary learning and for improving listening and
reading ability, but not for enhancing speaking and writing skills due to the fact that
stand-alone video games do not offer communication opportunities and usually demand
physical responses, rather than spoken and written output, for game procession (Chen
& Huang, 2010; Chen &Yang, 2011; Lu et al., 2011).The beneﬁts on vocabulary learning
are most agreed-upon and have been consistently found across different types of
games, including the Sims (Ranalli, 2008), PS2 music games (deHaan et al., 2010),
adventure games (Chen & Yang, 2011), interactive ﬁction games (Neville, Shelton &
McInnis, 2009), and the beneﬁts come from the strong contextual and visual cues
found in the games (Purushotma, 2005; Schaffer, Squire, Halverson & Gee, 2005). In
terms of the relative advantage of different game genres, adventure games have been
recommended highly for language learning due to their rich oral and written input,
repeated use of vocabulary and sentences and the centrality of textual understanding
to the gameplay (Chen & Huang, 2010; Lu et al., 2011). For instance, Lu et al. (2011)
found that playing an adventure game, Alice is Dead, helped improve university EFL
students’ reading skills and enhance their reading efﬁcacy. Chen and Yang (2011)
provided an adventure game, Bone, to their EFL university students to play outside the
class and students reported playing the game increased their listening, reading and
vocabulary skills.
MMORPGs provide immersive language and cultural learning experience with
rich embodiment of actions and concepts (Thorne, Black & Sykes, 2009) and bring
human–human interaction into the game (Sykes, Reinhardt & Thorne, 2010). Its
challenge/adventure structure naturally provides an organic context for task-based
language learning (Rankin et al., 2006), and the theme-based gameplay provides
abundant opportunities for recycling vocabulary and grammatical structure. Gaming
together with native speakers and learners from different countries increases the
opportunities to develop communicative competence and cross-cultural knowledge
(Peterson, 2010b). The most researched MMORPGs for language learning are World
of Warcraft and Ever Quest II. Similar to stand-alone video games, MMORPGs are
reported to beneﬁt vocabulary learning, reading and writing (Bytheway, 2011; Rankin,
Morrison, McNeal, Gooch & Shute, 2009; Roy, 2007). Suh, Kim and Kim (2010) carried
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 187
out a large-scale two-month experimental study on the effects of MMORPGs. 118
elementary EFL learners were taught with an English online RPG, Nori School, in two
40-minute class sessions per week, whereas the 102 counterparts were taught in
regular face-to-face classrooms. The MMORPG group was found to outperform the
traditional group in listening, writing and reading. In contrast to stand-alone video
games, the affordances of human–human interactions in MMOPRGs lend themselves
to fostering communicative competence and pragmatic socialization (Palmer, 2010;
Thorne, 2008): MMORPG elicits extensive target language outputs and beneﬁcial forms
of interaction (Rankin et al., 2009; Thorne, 2008) and induces a variety of speech acts
(Rankins et al., 2009) and socioemotional talk (Peña & Hancock, 2006). MMORPGs are
also found to foster collaborative trans-cultural and multilingual relationships (Sykes et
al., 2010; Thorne, 2008) and encourage a long-term commitment to language learning
(Roy, 2007).
With the virtual embodiment of human agents and the support of human–human
interaction, 3D collaborative virtual environments share some common advantages
for language learning with MMORPGs in fostering communicative competence and
pragmatic socialization. At the same time, they also differ from MMORPGs in that
they provide a conﬁgurable universe with no embedded gameplay, which grants
teachers and students the freedom to customize their own learning environments
and experience as well as the objectives and goals of play in such environments.
This freedom makes it easier to align learning in such environments with existent
language curriculum, and the lack of embedded gameplay lends itself well to support
deep levels of communication, collaboration and relationship building (Dalgarno &
Lee, 2010; Lee & Hoadley, 2007; Yee & Bailenson, 2007). The collaborative learning
experience in virtual environments has also been found to enhance language
learners’ self-efﬁcacy (Henderson, Huang, Grant & Henderson, 2009; Zheng et al.,
2009).
Therefore, current experimentation with the three types of COTS has suggested
that different COTS hold different affordances for language learning and could be used
to serve different purposes of language education. At the same time, researchers
have cautioned that careful pedagogical considerations and instructional strategies are
key to harnessing their potential since these commercial digital platforms were not
originally designed for language learning (Kim, Park & Baek, 2009).
Pedagogical considerations in adapting COTS
To ensure successful integration of commercial digital gaming platforms into language
learning and teaching, educators must take into account how to get learners ready for
gameplay and for learning, how to build seamless connections between the games and
the language curriculum, and how to conﬁgure optimal gameplaying conditions. In the
case of 3D collaborative virtual environments, task design is also a crucial pedagogical
consideration.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
188
Playing digital games requires sophisticated technical and metacognitive skills that
are often found lacking among students (Chen, 2010), and thus scaffolding of both
gameplay and language learning is crucial. Scaffolding of gameplay includes:
1 discussing tips for gameplay and providing lists of objectives at different stages
to keep students from getting overwhelmed or lost as a result of the freedom of
action found in most digital gaming platforms (Neville et al., 2009);
2 familiarizingstudentswiththechaoticturn-takingsinMMORPGsandcollaborative
virtual worlds and discussing strategies to deal with the unique conversational
patterns and discourse feature in such environments (Örngren Berglund, 2006);
3 familiarizing students with the unique culture and conventions of social behaviour
and interactions in the multi-user gaming environments and helping them build
a repertoire of communication strategies to ensure successful interactions both
during the gameplay and in ofﬂine contexts (Sykes et al., 2010); and
4 givingstudentsmeta-cognitivetrainingtoraisetheirawarenessoftheaffordances
of a particular virtual environment (Deutschmann et al., 2009; Neville et al., 2009)
and equip them with gaming and learning strategies. For instance, Kim, Park
and Baek (2009) trained 117 ninth-graders on three meta-cognitive strategies
speciﬁc to gameplaying (self-recording; modelling and thinking aloud) to support
their interaction with a MMORPG, Gersang, and found that training of the three
meta-cognitive strategies contributed to both students’ achievement in learning
and game performance.
Scaffolding gameplay gives learners a smooth and enjoyable gaming experience, but
a fun gaming experience does not necessarily guarantee language learning. Since
commercial digital platforms were designed originally for entertainment and not
for language learning in speciﬁc, students, when immersed in play, are very likely
to overlook important information such as potential language learning opportunities
(Rankin et al., 2008). Thus pedagogical scaffolding is essential and can be provided
at the pre-, during- and post-play stages. A pre-play orientation session both on the
gameplay and the difﬁcult words that appear in the game is recommended, especially
for lower-proﬁciency learners (Bryant, 2007; Chen & Huang, 2010; Rankin et al., 2006).
For learners with relatively limited language proﬁciency, encouraging active participation
and training on compensation strategies are also needed since those learners usually
lack the conﬁdence and motivation to actively use the target language to communicate
with others (Shih &Yang, 2008).The during-play scaffolding could take the form of easy
access to emergent language support (Rankin et al., 2006) and of teachers’ supportive
linguistic behaviour to increase learner engagement (Deutschmann et al., 2009). For
instance, Bryant (2007) supported his German 101 students’ co-questing in WoW
by leading them to work together to interpret the narrative text of each quest prior
to the gameplay and then providing unobtrusive corrections and explanations when
necessary during the gameplay.
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 189
In addition to pre- and during-play scaffolding, a post-play collaborative debrieﬁng
session on learning out of the gaming experience is extremely important (Bryant, 2007;
Chen & Huang, 2010). Thorne and Reinhardt (2008) proposed the ‘bridging activities’
model where the digital texts and practices generated during the gaming experience
are brought to class discussions to raise critical awareness of the social practices and
language used in a particular digital context and encourage the application of the critical
awareness vis-à-vis language socialization in different communication contexts.
Another important element in enhancing learning with gaming is to strengthen the
connection between the game and the curriculum so as to make gaming part of a
holistic learning experience. Such integration could be achieved by including the game
as part of a graded assignment and/or through in-class guided reﬂections on the gaming
experience, and the strategies students used during play (Chen & Huang, 2010; Neville
et al., 2009). Integration also could be achieved by aligning the gaming elements with
the curricular topics and targeted communicative functions (Chen & Su, 2011; Oliver
& Carr, 2009). A deeper reaching measure is to build a task-based curriculum around
the game, and use quests or lines of quests as ‘orthogonal units’ in the curriculum
where pre-tasks can be centred around the narrative of a particular quest, the task
stage would be the in-game questing, and the post-task stage would involve students
in reporting on the quests and their questing experience (Sykes et al., 2010).
Optimizing gameplaying conditions is yet another way to enhance learning
in gaming environments. Collaborative play with stand-alone video games and
co-questing in online gaming environments are important since playing a game
collaboratively creates heightened attention to language and the opportunities for
co-construction of knowledge about the language. Piirainen-Marsh and Tainio (2009)
observed two 13-year-old boys playing an action adventure game, Final Fantasy X,
and found that the boys used frequent lexical and prosodic repetition to co-construct
their understanding, enjoyment and experience of the game. Interaction with native
speakers in MMORPGs or virtual worlds proves beneﬁcial to learning and helps
sustain players’ interest in the game. Rankin et al.s’ (2008) study on advanced ESL
learners’ experience in Ever Quest II found that playing together with native speakers
produced signiﬁcantly greater learning than playing the game alone. Furthermore,
students were found to beneﬁt both from interacting directly with and in the game
and from watching the gameplay. Interacting with the game directly fosters embodied
learning whereas watching gameplay induces heightened attention to language.
DeHann, Reed and Kuwada (2010) did an interesting comparative study on the effect
of game interactivity on vocabulary learning and found that students who watched
peers playing the game actually gained more than those who only played the game.
Thus, alternating different formats of the game, from participation to watching, is a
sound and helpful approach.
Since 3D collaborative virtual environments leave the construction of learning
experience to the users, task or quest design must be considered when adapting
such environments for language learning (Chen, 2010; Deutschmann et al.,
2009). To make the gaming experience in 3D collaborative virtual environments
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
190
interesting, researchers have advocated combining and balancing different types
of tasks/quests. Sykes, Reinhardt and Thorne (2010) suggested combining tasks
that provide improvised and open-ended play, tasks that provide rule-bound play
and tasks that engage competition. Deutschmann et al. (2009) recommended the
use of a repertoire of tasks that target the social-communicative dimension, the
creative-cultural dimension and the physical dimension respectively. Some tasks
they recommended are: conversation tasks on personal issues as well as more
complex issues; tasks in which learners build or create a joint piece of work or
an object; tasks that engage students in the exploration of cultural identity and
cross-cultural sensitive issues; and tasks that involve physical movements such as
scavenger hunts, tours around a place, asking or giving directions. Tasks that are
authentic, challenging and relevant to learners’ life are found to be more effective
(Deutschmann et al., 2009). Thus, designing some open-ended tasks that leave
room for the incorporation of student-contributed ideas, problems and texts may
make the learning experience more meaningful to the learners. Researchers have
further pointed out that tasks/quests of looser rather than tighter structure might
work better and that tasks/quests that encourage learner community are central to
the learning experience (Deutschmann et al., 2009).
The key issues related to the adaption of COTS for language learning involve striking
a balance between the selection of COTS and the intended instructional purposes
and making appropriate pedagogical arrangements that provide the support required
to maximize the learning arising of the gaming experience. The design of serious
educational language learning games involves considering quite different issues
such as balancing entertaining and learning in the game and ﬁtting the game to the
educational contexts.
Design of serious educational
language learning games
Designing games for educational purposes remains challenging; the games must
maintain a strong and playful character while at the same time integrating a clear
pedagogical rationale. Thus striking the right balance between entertaining and
learning is a key issue in the design of serious educational language learning games.
However, designing a perfect game with the right combination of play and learning
does not naturally guarantee its smooth implementation in educational contexts (Rice,
2007). The successful implementation of a serious language learning game relies
heavily on the negotiation between the game and the particular instructional context.
In this section, we will use the design and implementation of Zon, a MMORPG for
Chinese language learning, as an example to illustrate these two issues in some
depth.
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 191
Zon, a Chinese language learning MMORPG
Zon is a MMORPG speciﬁcally designed and developed for learning Chinese as a second
language. It provides a game-based immersive Chinese learning environment in which
the players engage in real-life quests to advance their identity in the gaming world
(from tourist to resident, to citizen) and pick up language and cultural knowledge along
the way. The overall goal of playing Zon is to advance socially and economically in this
virtual world, just as people do in real life (see Zhao & Lai, 2009 for more information).
The beta version of Zon was released to the public in April 2008 and an upgraded
version of Zon 1.0 appeared in September 2009. In Spring 2010, Zon launched its K-12
school program that targeted students from upper elementary through lower high
school level. As of Fall 2011, more than ten Zon servers have been set up in schools
to support Chinese enrichment program and Chinese as foreign language courses for
K-12 schools across the country.
Since its debut in K-12 Chinese classes, the Zon development team has been
collecting feedback from students, teachers and Zon tutors.1
Our discussion in this
section is based on Zon tutors’ feedback, discussions with school teachers, and
interviews with students. Based on user feedback, Zon developers are making constant
adjustments to the game design to create a better ﬁt between the game and the K-12
instructional context. In the section below, we will discuss some of the lessons Zon
development team learned about the design of serious language learning games to
use in the K-12 context.
Fuse learning seamlessly with play
The primary challenge facing the design of serious language learning games is to
strike the right balance between instruction and gameplay (Kiili, 2005; Neville et al.,
2009). Some advocate keeping the instructional contents in gameplay to a minimum
and leaving that to be dealt with outside the gaming environment, that is, on a
game-related website or in the classroom (Neville et al., 2009). Others recommend
seamlessly integrating learning into the gameplay by embedding the learning content
as cognitive scaffolds for play (Johnson, 2007; Rankin et al., 2008; Sykes et al., 2010).
Sykes, Reinhardt and Thorne (2010) recommend structuring learning content as skills
and knowledge players must acquire for continued advancement in the game. This
is the approach that Zon adopts to fuse learning and play. To play Zon, players need
to solve various real-life quests to progress from ‘tourists’ to ‘residents’ and ﬁnally
to ‘citizens’. Communicative skills and cultural knowledge are resources that players
need to pick up along the way to help them advance. For each quest, relevant learning
content is placed right next to the quest at a click’s distance so that students can
access the learning content at any time. Rankin et al. (2008) further suggest providing
the instructional content as game plug-ins to provide emergent language support
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
192
to facilitate the gameplay. An example they give is to provide chat prompts with
references on relevant expressions and explanations on conversation conventions to
assist students’ social interactions associated with game activities. Zon realizes this
emergent support through using non-player characters (NPCs) and tutors to direct the
players to the requested learning content when they get stuck in play. Furthermore,
Zon seamlessly integrates learning into play by designing game failure states as
genuine consequences of communication failures (Sykes et al., 2010). For instance,
if the player fails the currency exchange communication at the bank, s/he will not get
any money for use in the game.
Fit the game design to the K-12 instructional context
Digital games, even when they have been designed speciﬁcally for learning, do not ﬁt
naturally into the instructional context. Rice (2007) identiﬁed six barriers to classroom
implementation of educational video games. Some barriers reside in the stakeholders’
negative perceptions about digital games and learning. Some barriers come from
constraints in the school context (e.g., the unsupportive information infrastructure
at the school; limited instructional time in school periods). Other barriers originate in
the game design itself (e.g., the affordances of the gaming environment do not fully
support the desired learning objectives at school or the learning objectives in the game
do not align well with the state and local standards the school observes). Thus, to
ensure adoption of the game in the instructional context, various constraints in school
context need to be taken considered.
Enhance the adaptability of the game to K-12 context
The adoption of a game in the classroom relies on the ease of its adaptability to the
classroom instructional context. Deubel (2002) stressed that a game needs to possess
the ‘capabilities for dynamic teacher adjustments’ in order to ensure its widespread
adoption in the school context. To facilitate the dynamic teacher adjustments, a game
may need to consist of a large amount of small episodes that target short learning
objectives so that teachers could easily identify and integrate the episodes that align
with a given instructional purpose for a certain day. Zon consists of a number of mini-
tasks in each game scene, and, the mini-tasks are related but relatively independent. For
instance, the airport scene consists of mini-tasks such as buying food or drinks at the
snack store, exchanging currency at the bank, picking up luggage, making transportation
arrangements, clearing customs and so on. Teachers can easily ﬁt individual mini-
tasks with speciﬁc instructional purposes. To further ease teachers’ alignment of the
mini-tasks with their classroom teaching objectives, a content map was introduced
upon teachers’ request, with all the mini-tasks labelled with targeted communicative
functions and colour-coded according to difﬁculty levels. The communicative functions
and the set-up of difﬁculty levels align with the state and local standards. Furthermore,
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 193
the learning objectives are often kept small in scope so that they can be ﬁnished within
a typical class period (Rice, 2007).
Restructure the game to meet K-12 institutional needs
Zon is designed to be a MMORPG that fosters transcultural and translingual interactions
for language learning (Zhao & Lai, 2009). To realize this affordance, the game world
needs to be open to the public to attract native speakers and learners of different
cultures and linguistic backgrounds. However, when Zon was introduced to the K-12
context, concerns for students’ privacy and safety led school administrators to request
that the Zon school server be open only to the students within the school. Thus the
envisioned open world had to be closed to meet K-12 institutional needs; this change
greatly sacriﬁced a major contribution of MMORPG for language learning – transcultural
and translingual interactions. To remedy the situation, the Zon development team had
to recruit Chinese-speaking Zon tutors into the game to create the much-needed
multicultural interaction opportunities.
Enhance the aﬀordances of the game to
support K-12 learner needs
Research studies show that the availability of sufﬁcient scaffolding and guidance
to prevent players from becoming overwhelmed is key to the success of a game,
especially when adopted in the educational context (de Freitas, 2006; Frank, 2007;
Kebritchi, 2010; Kenny & Gunter, 2011; Rice, 2007). In-game scaffolding mechanisms
help players to play the game smoothly, take initiatives in creating language learning
opportunities and tune in to the emergent language learning opportunities (Neville
et al., 2009).To achieve in-game scaffolding, Neville et al. (2009) proposed incorporating
embedded narrative as cognitive scaffolding for gameplay to supplement with the
emergent narrative of the game. These embedded narratives could be in the form of
‘prerendered or interactive’ cut-scenes to direct players through the game environment
or in the form of resources to help players get through a game quest.
The Zon development team’s experience with Zon implementation in K-12 context
supports the argument that balance must be achieved between emergent narrative
and embedded narrative in game design (Dickey, 2007; Neville et al., 2009). When
it was ﬁrst piloted at a school to support the Chinese learning of about 40 5th–8th
graders, Zon had an open-ended, overarching game narrative with only three major
cut-scenes deﬁned by players’ game identities (tourist, resident and citizen). Players
had unrestricted access to various game regions and scenes within each cut-scene
and were immersed in a vast amount of quests and learning resources. Shortly after
its school début, teachers and students complained about feeling overwhelmed by
the freedom of exploration and felt at a loss about which quests to pick and enact.
Students felt disoriented and expressed frustrations over too many quest choices.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
194
Some of the most frequently asked questions from students in the computer lab were
‘What’s next?’, ‘What should I do now?’. Some students, frustrated at the complexity
of the game environment, simply withdrew to repeat a limited number of quests
with which they were already familiar to earn game rewards rather than continuing
with the gameplay. These experiences showed that too wide an array of choices was
overwhelming and to some extent demotivating to the K-12 students (Dickey, 2007).
Students needed structure built into the game to scaffold them through the gameplay.To
remedy the situation, an embedded narrative was built in: within each major cut-scene
(e.g., the tourist world), sub-cut-scenes were added where players had to ﬁnish one
sub-cut-scene (e.g., the airport) before moving on to another while preserving the
emergent narrative within each sub-cut-scene. To provide further gameplay support,
suggested lines of quests were built within each sub-cut-scene so that the storyline
was unrolled gradually as players ﬁnished one quest after another. Optional quests
were also available for players’ free exploration to gain experience points. Furthermore,
for each quest, a quest management tool bar was built to provide relevant background
information and instructions on the locations of relevant language content for the
quest, and to present visual displays so that the players would have a clear idea of
the gaming objectives. Thus, instead of throwing the players directly into an intricate
and strange world, an embedded narrative was built to scaffold their gameplay. This
modiﬁcation resulted in a drastic decline of complaints about disorientation and
frustration. The enquiries to the Zon tutors were no longer on gameplay but rather
requests for language support. One of the returning students, who had participated in
the previous version of Zon told a tutor that: ‘this is much better than what I had last
year. Last year, I spent a lot of time to ﬁnd the right task.There were too many of them
. . . I had to ask tutors where is the next step. It took so much time to ﬁgure out by
myself. But now I play at home too, because I know what to do’. Further, the gradual
revelation of the gameplay served as a motivator to continue playing as students were
eager to ﬁnd out what challenge was waiting for them next.
In this section, we used Zon as an example to illustrate the two key issues around
the design of serious language learning games: the seamless integration of learning and
play and the accommodation of the affordances and constraints in the target educational
context. Although we have identiﬁed the speciﬁc tension between ideal game design
and the complexity of how to implement Zon in the K-12 educational context, we
believe the lessons we learned actually apply more broadly to all educational contexts.
Each context has its particular affordance and constraints that impact signiﬁcantly on
the game design.
Future development and research directions
The use of digital games in language learning, although developing quickly, is still a
relatively young ﬁeld. At this stage, the discipline’s development is intertwined with
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 195
research on the discipline itself. Current research has mainly focused on exploring the
various affordances of digital games for language learning.To advance the ﬁeld further,
more systematic research on various issues related to the adaption of COTS and the
design and the implementation of serious language learning games is needed.
Research on digital games and simulations has focused on understanding the
cognitive and affective effects of digital games on language learners to establish their
legitimacy in language learning. Evidence has been mounting on the positive effects
of digital games on the affective domain, learning outcomes and social interaction.
However, current evidence has relied heavily on retrospective self-report data from
short-term studies, which is subject to a novelty effect (Hew & Cheung, 2010).
Researchers are advocating broadening the scope of research to tap into the actual
gaming process, such as the language learning strategies students employ when
playing digital games (Lee & Key, 2008) and learner autonomy development in gameplay
(Chik, 2011), and to understand how digital games foster and shape ‘emerging social
practices’ for language learning through both in-gameplay and ofﬂine social activities
around the gameplay (Sykes et al., 2010). Researchers also are calling for investigations
into the effects of sociocultural factors on digital game-based language learning (Hew
& Cheung, 2010; Thomas, 2011) and urging for longitudinal studies to examine the
long-term effects of digital game-based learning (Hew & Cheung, 2010).
Research into game design is crucial but unfortunately still in its infancy.The design
of digital game and simulation environments for language learning faces the challenge
of several contentious relationships: the tension between scaffolding play and learning
through imposing structures on gameplay and granting players personal agency and
individual choice (i.e., embedded narrative vs emergent narrative in gameplay) (Neville
et al., 2009); and the tension between fostering a ﬂow experience through fun play and
drawing learners’ attention to instructional content (i.e., entertainment vs education)
(Killi, 2005). Although various propositions have been put forth to balance the
relationships (Neville et al., 2009; Sykes et al., 2010) systematic empirical studies are
needed to examine and advance these propositions. Issues at the design of individual
quest level also await evidence-based guidance. Such issues include the distribution of
learning resources and instructional content within the questing structure, the feedback
mechanisms and the reward systems (Sykes et al., 2010). Moreover, as facilitation and
scaffolding strategies for language learning within a digital game are acknowledged
as essential to its language learning potential, the kinds of facilitation and scaffolding
strategies required need to be informed by research. Types of in-game learning
supports might include on-demand cultural tips, pragmatic hints and language models,
running collections of language and culture items acquired, and various focus-on-form
techniques in learning resources and instructional contents. Future research studies are
needed to investigate the effectiveness of various in-game facilitation and scaffolding
strategies. When designing a game, we need guidance not only on maximizing the
language learning potential of the game, but also on increasing its adoption in language
classrooms. Deubel (2002) pointed out that to enhance the likelihood of a game being
adopted as an instructional component in classrooms, a digital game needs to ‘provide
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
196
capabilities for dynamic teacher adjustments’ (p. 257). An examination of various ways
to provide such ﬂexible adjustments in different instructional contexts is important to
advance the adoption of serious language learning games in educational contexts.
Game implementation in language classrooms is another crucial area of research that
awaits exploration. Although the general literature on educational games has provided
some useful suggestions for effective implementation of digital games in classrooms
(Rice, 2007), guidance at the pedagogical level is still lacking. The nature and levels
of learner preparation and pedagogical scaffolding prior to, during and after gameplay
and the approaches to learner training deserve a lot of attention (Chen, 2010; Lee &
Key, 2008). Different instructional arrangements in aligning games with the language
curriculum, such as the settings of game use and the strategies for implementing
them (Johnson & Wu, 2008), and ways of connecting games and language curricula
need to be subject to systematic investigation in order to inform classroom practice.
Furthermore, the roles of facilitators and teachers in using games in language teaching
at different stages of gameplay and for different types of language learners need to
be empirically deﬁned. Researchers should outline both the types of support game
facilitators and teachers need to provide for scaffolded learning and deﬁne preparation
strategies for teachers implementing COTS or serious educational games (Johnson &
Wu, 2008).
Designing games requires signiﬁcant investment, and it is not likely that one game
or online simulation alone could satisfy all language learning needs. Thus, future
research may need to focus on unravelling the affordances and pedagogical relevance
of existing digital games and simulations (Sykes et al., 2010) and help teachers and
learners make informed decisions about how to construct game-based experiences
that serve their learning and teaching needs.
Note
1 Zon tutors, who are also learning content developers, are deployed in game space
during class sessions to virtually support students and obtain feedback.
References
Balkun, M. M., Zedeck, M., & Trotta, H. (2009). Literary analysis as serious play in Second
Life. In C. Wankel & J. Kingsley (Eds.), Higher education in virtual worlds: Teaching and
learning in Second Life (pp. 141–57). Bingleym, UL: Emerald Group Publishing.
Bryant, T. (2007). Games as an ideal learning environment. Retrieved from http://dspace.
nitle.org/handle/10090/6565
Bytheway, J. A. (2011). Vocabulary learning strategies in massively multiplayer online
role-playing games (Unpublished Masters Thesis). Victoria University of Wellington,
New Zealand.
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 197
Catel, M. (2008). Les Sims 2 – Langaming. [Web log comment]. Retrieved from www.
freewebs.com/prcatel/
Chen, D. D. (2010). Enhancing the learning of Chinese with Second Life. Journal of
Technology and Chinese Language Teaching, 1(1), 14–30.
Chen, H. H., & Huang, W. Y. (2010). Examining the potentials of computer games for
English learning. Proceedings of the 2010 third IEEE international conference on digital
game and intelligent toy enhanced learning, DIGI’10 (pp. 134–8). Washington, DC, USA:
IEEE Computer Society.
Chen, H. H., & Yang, C. (2011). Investigating the effects of an adventure video game
on foreign language learning. Proceedings of the 6th international conference on
E-learning and games, edutainment technologies, edutainment’11 (pp. 168–75). Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.
Chen, H. J., & Su, C. C. (2011). Constructing a 3D virtual world for foreign language
learning based on open source freeware. In M. Chang, W. Y. Hwang, M. P
. Chen &
W. Müller (Eds.), Edutainment technologies: Educational games and virtual reality/
augmented reality applications (pp. 46–53). Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin
Heidelberg.
Chik, A. (2011). Learner autonomy development through digital gameplay. Digital Culture &
Education, 3(1), 30–45.
Clark, A. (2008). Genome island: A virtual science environment in Second Life, science,
and recess. Environment, 5(1), 1–6.
Coleman, D. W. (1990). Computerized simulations and games for language learning: Part 1.
Simulation & Gaming, 21(4), 443–4.
Connolly, T. M., Stansﬁeld, M., & Hainey, T. (2011). An alternate reality game for language
learning: ARGuing for multilingual motivation. Computers & Education (57)1, 1389–415.
Crookall, D. (2007). Editorial: Second language acquisition and simulation. Simulation &
Gaming, 38(1), 6–8.
Dalgarno, B., & Lee, M. J. W. (2010). What are the learning affordances of 3D virtual
environments? British Journal of Educational Technology, 41(1), 10–32.
de Freitas, S. (2006). Learning in immersive worlds: A review of game-based learning.
Report prepared for the JISC eLearning programme. Retrieved from www.mendeley.
com/research/learning-in-immersive-worlds-a-review-of-gamebased-learning/#
deHaan, J., Reed, W. M., & Kuwada, K. (2010). The effect of interactivity with a music
video game on second language vocabulary recall. Language Learning & Technology,
14(2), 74–94.
Deubel, P
. (2002). Selecting curriculum-based software: Valuable educational software can
help students rise to the challenge of standardized testing and assessment. Learning
and Leading with Technology, 29(5), 10–16.
Deutschmann, M., Panichi, L., & Molka-Danielsen, J. (2009). Designing oral participation
in Second Life – a comparative study of two language proﬁciency courses. ReCALL,
21(02), 206–26.
Dickey, M. D. (2007). Game design and learning: A conjectural analysis of how massively
multiple online role-playing games (MMORPGs) foster intrinsic motivation. Educational
Technology Research & Development, 55(3), 253–73.
Frank, A. (2007). Balancing three different foci in the design of serious games:
Engagement, training objective and context. Situated play: Proceedings of the digital
games research association conference (pp. 567–74). Tokyo: The University of Tokyo.
Gee, J. P
. (2008). Game-like learning: An example of situated learning and implications for
opportunity to learn. In P
. A. Moss, D. C. Pullin, J. P
. Gee, E. H. Haertel & L. J. Young
(Eds.), Assessment, equity, and opportunity to learn (pp. 200–21). Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
198
Hao, Y., Hong, J. C., Jong, J. T., Hwang, M. Y., Su, C. Y., & Yang, J. S. (2010). Non-native
Chinese language learners’ attitudes towards online vision-based motion games. British
Journal of Educational Technology, (41)6, 1043–53.
Henderson, M., Huang, H., Grant, S., & Henderson, L. (2009). Language acquisition in
Second Life: Improving self-efﬁcacy beliefs. Same places different spaces proceedings
Ascilite Auckland 2009 (pp. 464–74). Retrieved from www.ascilite.org.au/conferences/
auckland09/procs/henderson.pdf
Hew, K. F
., & Cheung, W. S. (2010). Use of three-dimensional (3-D) immersive virtual
worlds in K-12 and higher education settings: A review of the research. British Journal
of Educational Technology, 41(1), 33–55.
Johnson, W. L. (2007). Serious use of a serious game for language learning. Proceedings
of the 2007 conference on artiﬁcial intelligence in education: Building technology rich
learning contexts that work (pp. 67–74). Amsterdam, The Netherlands: IOS Press.
Johnson, W. L., & Wu, S. (2008). Assessing aptitude for learning with a serious game
for foreign language and culture. In B. P
. Woolf, E. Aïmeur, R. Nkambou, & S. Lajoie
(Eds.), Intelligent tutoring systems (pp. 520–9). Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin
Heidelberg.
Kebritchi, M. (2010). Factors affecting teachers’ adoption of educational computer games:
A case study. British Journal of Educational Technology, 41(2), 256–70.
Kenny, R., & Gunter, G. (2011). Factors affecting adoption of video games in the
classroom. Journal of Interactive Learning Research, 22(2), 259–76.
Kiili, K. (2005). Digital game-based learning: Towards an experiential gaming model. The
Internet and Higher Education, 8(1), 13–24.
Kim, B., Park, H., & Baek, Y. (2009). Not just fun, but serious strategies: Using
meta-cognitive strategies in game-based learning. Computers & Education, 52(4),
800–10.
Koenraad, A. L. M. (2008). How can 3D Virtual Worlds contribute to language education?
Focus on the language village format. Unpublished manuscript. The Netherlands:
Utrecht University of Applied Sciences.
Lee, J. J., & Hoadley, C. M. (2007). Leveraging identity to make learning fun: Possible
selves and experiential learning in massively multiplayer online games (MMORPGs).
Innovate: Journal of Online Education, 3(6).
Lee, Y. Y., & Key, S. (2008). Playing videogames: Do students choose speciﬁc foreign
language learning strategies in playing these games? TNTESOL Journal, 30–7
.
Lu, H. M., Lou, S. J., Papa, C., & Chung, C. C. (2011). Study on inﬂuence of adventure
game on English reading conﬁdence, motive and self-efﬁcacy. Proceedings of the
6th international conference on e-learning and games, edutainment technologies (pp.
430–4). Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Berlin.
Neville, D. O., Shelton, B. E., & McInnis, B. (2009). Cybertext redux: Using digital
game-based learning to teach L2 vocabulary, reading, and culture. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 22(5), 409–24.
Oliver, M., & Carr, D. (2009). Learning in virtual worlds: Using communities of practice to
explain how people learn from play. British Journal of EducationalTechnology, 40(3), 444–57
.
Ӧrngren Berglund, T. (2006). Att mӧtas online: Muntliga realtidsträffar i nätverket ITAS.
In P
. Svensson (Ed.), Från vision till praktik: Språkutbildning och informationsteknik.
Stockholm: Nätuniversitetet.
Palmer, D. S. (2010). Second language pragmatic socialization in World of Warcraft.
University of California, CA.
Peña, J., & Hancock, J. T. (2006). An analysis of socioemotional and task communication in
online multiplayer video games. Communication Research, 33(1), 92–109.
DIGITAL GAMES AND LANGUAGE LEARNING 199
Peterson, M. (2006). Learner interaction management in an avatar and chat-based virtual
world. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 19(1), 79–103.
— (2010a). Computerized games and simulations in computer-assisted language learning:
A meta-analysis of research. Simulation & Gaming, 41(1), 72–93.
— (2010b). Massively multiplayer online role-playing games as arenas for second language
learning. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 23(5), 429–39.
Piirainen-Marsh, A., & Tainio, L. (2009). Collaborative game-play as a site for participation
and situated learning of a second language. Scandinavian Journal of Educational
Research, 53(2), 167–83.
Purushotma, R. (2005). Commentary: You’re not studying, you’re just . . . Language
Learning & Technology, 9(1), 80–96.
Purushotma, R., Thorne, S. L., & Wheatley, J. (2009). 10 key principles for designing
video games for foreign language learning. Open Language & Learning Games
Project, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Education Arcade. Retrieved
from http://lingualgames.wordpress.com/article/10-key-principles-for-designin
g-video-27mkxqba7b13d-2/
Ranalli, J. (2008). Learning English with ‘The Sims’: Exploiting authentic computer
simulation games for L2 learning. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(5),
441–55.
Rankin, Y. A., Gold, R., & Gooch, B. (2006). 3D role-playing games as language learning
tools. Proceedings of the Eurographics Education Program 2006.
Rankin, Y. A., McNeal, M. K., Shute, M. W., & Gooch, B. (2008). User centered game
design: Evaluating massive multiplayer online role playing games for second language
acquisition. Proceedings of the 2008 ACM SIGGRAPH symposium on Video games
(pp. 43–9). New York, NY: ACM.
Rankin, Y. A., Morrison, D., McNeal, M. K., Gooch, B., & Shute, M. W. (2009). Time will tell:
In-game social interactions that facilitate second language acquisition. Proceedings of
the 4th international conference on foundations of digital games (pp. 161–8). New York,
NY: ACM.
Rice, J. W. (2007). New media resistance: Barriers to implementation of computer video
games in the classroom. Journal of Educational Multimedia and Hypermedia, 16(3),
249–61.
Roy, D. (2007). Warcraft teaches Spanish, part 1. Retrieved from www.educationarcade.
org/node/239
Schaffer, D., Squire, K. D., Halverson, R., & Gee, J. P
. (2005). Video games and the future
of learning. Phi Delta Kappan, 87(2), 104–11.
Shih, Y. C. (2010). VEC 3D Home page. Retrieved from http://faculty.ndhu.edu.tw/~vec3d/
Shih, Y. C., & Yang, M. T. (2008). A collaborative virtual environment for situated language
learning using VEC3D. Journal of Educational Technology & Society, 11(1), 56–68.
Sorensen, B. H., & Meyer, B. (2007). Serious games in language learning and teaching –
A theoretical perspective. Situated Play: Proceedings of the digital games research
association conference (pp. 559–66). Tokyo: The University of Tokyo.
Suh, S., Kim, S. W., & Kim, N. J. (2010). Effectiveness of MMORPG-based instruction in
elementary English education in Korea. Journal of Computer Assisted Learning 26(5),
370–8.
Sykes, J. M. (2009). Learner requests in Spanish: Examining the potential of multiuser
virtual environments for L2 pragmatics acquisition. In L. Lomicka & G. Lord (Eds.), The
next generation: Social networking and online collaboration in foreign language learning
(pp. 199–234). San Marcos, TX: CALICO.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
200
Sykes, J. M., & Cohen, A. D. (2009). Learner perception and strategies for pragmatic
acquisition: A glimpse into online learning materials. In C. Dreyer (Ed.), Language and
linguistics: Emerging trends (pp. 99–135). Hauppauge, NY: Nova Science Publishers.
Sykes, J. M., Reinhardt, J., & Thorne, S. L. (2010). Multiuser digital games as sites for
research and practice. In F
. M. Hult (Ed.), Directions and prospects for educational
linguistics (Vol. 11, pp. 117–35). Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands.
Taylor, M. (1990). Simulations and adventure games in CALL. Simulation & Gaming, 21(4),
461–6.
Thomas, M. (2011). Editorial: Digital games and second language acquisition in Asia.
Digital Culture & Education, 3(1), 1–3.
Thorne, S. L. (2008). Transcultural communication in open internet environments and
massively multiplayer online games. In S. S. Magnan (Ed.), Mediating discourse online
(305–27). Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins.
Thorne, S. L., & Reinhardt, J. (2008). ‘Bridging activities’, new media literacies, and
advanced foreign language proﬁciency. CALICO Journal, 25(3), 558–72.
Thorne, S. L., Black, R. W., & Sykes, J. M. (2009). Second language use, socialization, and
learning in internet interest communities and online gaming. The Modern Language
Journal, 93, 802–21.
Tomlinson, B., & Masuhara, H. (2009). Playing to learn: A review of physical games in
second language acquisition. Simulation & Gaming, 40(5), 645–68.
Waters, J. K. (2007). On a quest for English. T.H.E. Journal, 34(10), 27–8.
Wright, A., Betteridge, D., & Buckby, M. (2006). Games for language learning. Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press.
Yang, J. C., Chen, C. H., & Jeng, M. C. (2010). Integrating video-capture virtual reality
technology into a physically interactive learning environment for English learning.
Computers & Education, 55(3), 1346–56.
Yee, N., & Bailenson, J. (2007). The proteus effect: The effect of transformed
self-representation on behavior. Human Communication Research, 33(3), 271–90.
Zhao, Y., & Lai, C. (2009). MMOPRG and foreign language education. In R. E. Ferdig
(Ed.), Handbook of research on effective electronic gaming in education (pp. 402–21).
Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
Zheng, D., Young, M. F
., Wagner, M., & Brewer, R. A. (2009). Negotiation for action:
English language learning in game-based virtual worlds. The Modern Language Journal,
93(4), 489–511.
11
Mobile-assisted language learning
Glenn Stockwell
Summary
As mobile technologies become more widely used in our everyday lives, it is
perhaps not surprising that they have attracted the attention of language teachers
as a means of providing learning opportunities that learners can take advantage of
at a time and place that suits them. Mobile learning has the potential to not only
increase the amount of time that individual learners spend engaged in language
learning activities (Stockwell, 2010), but also to reduce the psychological distance that
may be associated with more formal language learning situations (Bax, 2003). There
are, however, a number of concerns that need to be taken into consideration when
incorporating mobile learning. The smaller screen and limited input methods which
are often associated with learning with mobile devices, for example, have an effect on
the amount of information which can be provided to learners and the types of tasks
and activities that learners can be expected to undertake. In addition to the physical
characteristics, learners still exhibit some psychological barriers regarding learning
which need to be overcome in order to make mobile learning come more into the
mainstream, such as the distinction between private time and study time, and the
difﬁculties associated with studying in public places, such as while commuting. This
chapter will discuss the complexities of mobile learning, looking not only at the potential
advantages of learning a language with mobile devices, but also outlining the factors
which need to be kept in mind when learning through mobile devices. It also includes
a discussion of the possibilities that current and emerging mobile technologies may
have on the language learning process.
Introduction
In many ways, mobile learning has long been predicted as one of the next stages of
education. Mobile technologies have become more and more a part of our everyday
lives, and to this end, it seems natural to assume that they will take on a role in
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
202
learning contexts as well. As in other areas of education (Ally, 2009), this change has
been reﬂected in the steadily growing body of recent research that looks at language
learning through various mobile devices, and research has appeared that capitalizes
on the expanding functionalities of these devices, including short message system
(SMS) (Kennedy & Levy, 2008), mobile-phone-based email (Kiernan & Aizawa, 2004),
podcasting (Rosell-Aguilar, 2007), mobile phone Web browsers (Stockwell, 2007) and
apps (Bateson & Daniels, 2012).
As the name suggests, mobile learning occurs predominantly out of class time,
such as while commuting or waiting for friends (Stockwell, 2008), which entails a
shift from the traditional concept of computer-assisted language learning (CALL) as a
predominantly classroom activity. This redeﬁnition of the learning context from more
formal settings to something that occurs as an accessible – if not a natural – part of
learning both in and out of the classroom is encompassed in Bax’s description of what
he terms integrated CALL, where technology is seen as being ‘in every classroom,
on every desk, in every bag’ (2003, p. 21). Included in this idea is that learners carry
devices around with them that they can access at a time that is convenient to them,
and they can pick up the device to augment their learning in much the same way
that one may pick up a pen or a book. This means, however, that learners must feel
comfortable enough with the technology such that they do not have reservations about
using it without supervision or assistance.
An underlying concept that may be considered as supporting the use of mobile
devices in education is that of ‘Digital Natives’ as coined by Prensky (2001), who
argues that this upcoming generation has been brought up in an environment
where technologies around them are a natural part of life, and therefore using these
technologies for studying may be seen as ordinary, if not expected. Prensky also
suggests that these ‘Digital Natives’ are capable of carrying out multiple tasks at
once, and therefore are able to utilize different channels of information simultaneously,
such as engaging in text-chat at the same time as undertaking internet searches for
an assignment. In mobile learning, this type of multitasking becomes essential, as
learners need to negotiate with their surroundings at the same time as undertaking
activities or tasks on their mobile devices, such as a student completing a vocabulary
activity while riding on a train to commute to classes. While this might not seem like
multitasking at ﬁrst glance, when considering that the student needs to ensure that
they listen or watch for information about which station they need to disembark the
train while doing the activity, we can see that the learner needs to concentrate on two
distinct sources of information – the mobile activity and the information about where
they are – to be able to successfully complete both.
While Prensky’s ideas have been subject to some degree of criticism, such as
the fact that multitasking need not be a quality that is particular to so-called Digital
Natives (Baron, 2008; Bennett, Maton & Kervin, 2008), the idea that technology will
likely be less daunting to the majority of younger learners who have been brought up
surrounded by – and, in the vast majority of cases, owning – mobile devices would
seem to make sense. Mobile learning is, then, certainly something that is likely to be
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 203
seen with increasing frequency in the language learning literature in the foreseeable
future of CALL. Given this emerging trend, and the rather large number of books that
have started to appear in the last few years regarding learning through mobile devices
(Ally, 2009; Kidd & Chen, 2011; Kukulska-Hulme & Traxler, 2005), it is perhaps time
to step back and take stock of the effects that mobile devices can have on learning a
language, both positive and negative, give some thought to what we need to bear in
mind when using mobile devices to learn a language and consider the possible future
directions for mobile language learning.
Enabling aspects of mobile learning
One of the primary advantages that is given regarding mobile learning is that it allows
learners to ‘exploit small amounts of time and space for learning’ (Traxler, 2007
, p. 8).
In order to do this, it means that these devices must become part of the everyday life
of the user, so that it is at hand for when these often unanticipated ‘small amounts
of time and space’ arise. To consider this further, it is helpful to think through the role
that mobile devices now play in our lives. While there are of course new features and
functions that did not exist before the development of many modern mobile devices,
for the most part their functions replicate features of various tools that we carried with
us before they appeared. To many, a single modern mobile device such as a mobile
phone, a 3G MP3 player or a tablet computer now takes the place of the plethora of
items that might be carried around – a camera, a watch, an alarm clock, a newspaper,
a book, a diary, a CD player, a map, a train schedule and even a magnifying glass and
a mirror – without needing to ﬁll a backpack with all of the possible bits-and-pieces
that were anticipated as necessary before leaving the house. In other ways, however,
mobile devices allow for things that were not possible before the development of these
technologies. While a camera previously needed images to be printed or transferred
to a computer before distributing to family and friends, as Green and Haddon (2009)
suggest, the mobile device itself acts like a photo album, in that photos can be viewed
directly on the screen or they can be immediately emailed to others or posted on a
social networking site such as Facebook. This broad range of functionalities makes
mobile devices both a replacement and an extension of technologies which were in
use beforehand.
Trivanova et al. (2004) suggest that a mobile device for learning can be ‘any device
that is small, autonomous and unobtrusive enough to accompany us in every moment
and can be used for educational purposes’ (p. 1).This carries with it the connotation that,
given the fact that we generally have it with us at all times, the device is something that
we can take out and use at any time or place. If we need to remind ourselves whether
we are carrying a device that could be used for learning, in one sense, we already have
a problem about using that device as a part of our learning. We should feel that we can
reach into our bag or our pocket and take out the device when we want to engage in
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
204
some form of learning in the same way that we might reach into our bag and pick up
a textbook, pen or notepad on our way home from classes.The advantage that mobile
devices that we continually carry around with us provide is that we do not necessarily
have to prepare anything in advance of undertaking the learning. Rather than needing
to carry our language textbook in our bags on the off-chance we have a spare few
minutes and decide to use it constructively for learning purposes, if the mobile device
that we are already carrying takes on this additional role, it makes learning something
that can happen in a spontaneous way depending on circumstances, thus exploiting
the gaps in time and place as described by Traxler (2007) above.
The device that is used will depend greatly on our own lifestyles. If we are used to
carrying around a laptop or an MP3 player, then it makes sense that these devices are
put towards educational uses. Even within the comparatively short history of mobile
devices, it is becoming clear that, to a large extent, the modern mobile phone has
already replaced the roles of many other mobile devices. While of course other devices
may be used relatively widely in certain communities (such as palmtop computers for
business people), mobile phones indisputably have the greatest penetration rate across
the general population, reaching essentially 100% in recent studies where statistics
are included, such as university-age students in Japan (Thornton & Houser, 2005),
Korea (Nah, White & Sussex, 2008) and Austria (Ebner & Billicsich, 2011). Furthermore,
mobile phones now contain relatively high-resolution cameras that not only enable
quite clear photographs to be taken, but, as described above, these can be immediately
distributed through email, Facebook or Twitter. Whereas many people – particularly
the younger generation – have carried around MP3 players to listen to music while
riding on trains, walking or even while sitting in libraries or cafes, recently we see that
this functionality is also included in most mobile phones. Even many pre-smartphone
era phones allowed users to listen to music, but this has become even easier with
smartphones, most allowing learners to buy new songs or albums directly from their
phone without needing to use a computer at all. Internet browsing, which was typically
in the domain of laptop and tablet computers and personal digital assistants (PDAs),
is possible from smartphones, although this was available on many earlier phones
as well. Devices such as mobile phones (and PDAs) also have the advantage of no
‘boot-up’ time, making them even more appropriate for extremely short bursts of
activity than devices such as laptop computers (see Stockwell, 2008; Trinder et al.,
2005 ). Of course, the bigger screen of laptop and tablet computers makes scanning
through large amounts of information easier, but as Weiss (2002) argues, ‘wireless
users may be using their leisure time to gather information, but they typically have
immediate goals’ (p. 66). What this suggests is that when people use a mobile device,
in many cases, they wish to use to solve an immediate and comparatively simple
problem, such as ﬁnding when the next train arrives, the weather for the day or what
time a movie starts. If further information that involves more ‘surﬁng’ through multiple
pages is needed, they are likely to do this in a more leisurely manner, using different
technologies at a time and place more appropriate to the larger cognitive demands
required of them.
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 205
Although the discussion above alludes to the fact that a mobile device should be
something that we carry with us, how does this translate into enabling learning? Put
simply, anything that makes opportunities for learning more accessible to learners
must be considered as an enabling aspect. Because of the wide range of uses that are
generally applied to mobile devices, it means that the device becomes a familiar part
of the everyday routine of the user, and this in itself increases the chance for learning
to take place.The main problem that arises, however, is how to alter the awareness of
the device such that it is also applied to language learning purposes. As Healy (1999)
so aptly points out, ‘Technology alone does not create language learning any more
than dropping a learner into the middle of a large library does’ (p. 136).This is of course
relevant also for learning through mobile devices, and it is important not only to provide
the tools to learn, but also to provide the skills and the impetus for learners to do it.
Uses of mobile devices in language learning
As there has been a recent overview of different mobile technologies and how they have
been used in language learning by Kukulska-Hulme and Shield (2008), the description
here has been limited to the general trends that have started to emerge, and an
overview of some recent examples from the literature. In short, research into mobile
language learning has primarily focused on three main technologies: MP3 players,
PDAs and mobile phones. Not surprisingly, the majority of research using MP3 players
has been limited to listening through podcasts (e.g., Abdous, Camarena & Facer, 2009;
Rosell-Aguilar, 2007), but there have also been studies that have explored their use for
other language areas such as pronunciation (Ducate & Lomicka, 2009). While most of
these studies have given positive results regarding the use of MP3 players (although
this is mainly based on perceptions of usefulness rather than actual empirical data), it
is a technology that has received perhaps less-than-expected attention in the literature,
with the bulk of the research into mobile language learning looking at PDAs and mobile
phones.
Until quite recently, the primary focus of mobile devices for language learning was
the PDA, but over time there has been a shift more towards mobile phones.To illustrate
this, we can look at two recent collections regarding technology use in learning: an
edited volume from 2005 and a special journal issue in 2008. Although not all of the
chapters were about language learning, in Kukulska-Hulme andTraxler’s edited volume
published in 2005, of 14 chapters where speciﬁc mobile devices were described or
researched, 13 focused predominantly on the PDA (including 2 that also mentioned
mobile phones or tablet computers) and only 1 focused on the use of a mobile phone.
Three years later, in a special issue on mobile learning published in ReCALL in 2008,
of the ﬁve research articles focusing on a particular technology, three described mobile
phones and two described PDAs. This movement towards the mobile phone from
PDAs is indicative of two factors. First, as described above, mobile phones have now
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
206
developed to a point where they have caught up with the internet browsing and email
capabilities that were previously more synonymous with PDAs. As stated earlier, the
majority of university students these days seem to possess a mobile phone, and for
the most part, mobile phones developed over the last decade or so have some kind of
internet browsing capabilities, meaning that mobile phones are more than sufﬁcient to
complete the types of activities that were once only limited to PDAs. Second, as a PDA
is generally not a device owned by most university students (who more frequently than
not end up the focus of studies of mobile language learning), teachers and researchers
are generally required to provide class sets for learners.This obviously entails the costs
of putting together full sets of PDAs for learners to use, but at the same time, because
the devices are generally on loan, learners are generally not able to use them in a
completely unsupervised manner (i.e., take them home after class and use them in
their own time as with privately owned mobile phones). As a result, studies into PDAs
have the potential to be somewhat contrived, as they may not reﬂect the normal ways
that learners would likely use mobile devices, unlike the use of mobile phones.
To provide an example of the nature of mobile language learning, the three main
mobile devices used for language teaching, MP3 players, PDAs and mobile phones,
are described below, including a brief overview of some recent studies using these
devices.
MP3 players and podcasting
Although podcasting has not received an enormous amount of coverage in the second
language learning literature, there have been a small number of studies. In most cases,
the podcasts are created by the instructors, and learners are required to listen to these
outside of class time, generally to support what has been covered in class. In one
such example, O’Bryan and Hegelheimer (2007) used podcasts as a supplement to an
ESL listening strategies course. The podcasts could be downloaded to MP3 players,
but in keeping aware of the need to cater to those learners who did not possess an
MP3 player, the podcasts could also be watched using a normal desktop computer.
There were a total of 14 podcasts, 12 of which were audio only, and 2 which included
video as well. These were intended as a supplement to the class material, and were
typically intended to be completed as homework. Although the scale of the study was
quite small with only six learners participating, the results of surveys and interviews
with learners revealed that the podcasting was very well received. In another study,
Weinberg, Knorr and Vandergrift (2011) examined perceptions of learners of French
of the enjoyment and usefulness of podcasts through questionnaires and focus
group discussions. There were a total of seven podcasts created by the instructors
to give advice about how to listen to French lectures, but it was unclear whether the
podcasts were listened to in class or for homework. Feedback regarding the podcasts
was relatively neutral, but a criticism aimed at the podcasts was that they needed
to be more professional in terms of the way in which they were recorded (i.e., use
professional actors). In both of these examples, the focus of the podcasts is on how to
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 207
learn rather than on providing actual language learning input itself, and learners were
essentially required to listen to the podcast and to apply the content to their language
learning situations. In addition, there was little or no information given about where
the learners listened to the podcasts, and whether they used portable MP3 players to
listen to them or not, or even how many of the learners owned them.
A study by Abdous, Camarena and Facer (2009), however, revealed some interesting
statistics about learners’ usage patterns with podcasts.They showed that while around
two-thirds of learners had an iPod or other MP3 player, less than half this number used
the device with any degree of consistency, with those who did opting to listen to them
via a desktop computer in preference to a mobile device. The reason most commonly
cited was that learners did not have time to download the podcasts, although others
claimed that they either did not know how to download them or that they did not think
that they would be useful. In this sense, while podcasting is often considered as being
an activity that takes place on mobile devices, the research available suggested that it
is more commonly carried out on desktop computers than on mobile devices such as
MP3 players. The reasons behind this lack of use are discussed later in the section on
limitations of mobile learning.
PDAs
Earlier research into PDAs (also known as handheld or palmtop computers) in second
language learning contexts predominantly focused on the features of the technology
itself, and as such a good deal was conducted within the language classroom. More
recent research, however, has attempted to see PDAs used in more naturalistic settings,
with some studies giving learners unlimited access to PDA devices for a set period of
time, and others providing more closely supervised usage to complete a particular
task or activity. One underlying commonality of most PDA studies, however, was that
learners were provided with a PDA to use during the research rather than expected to
use one that they themselves owned (although actual ownership was not mentioned).
Given this point, quite understandably, studies in which learners were given unlimited
access tended to be of a smaller scale, whereas larger scale studies tended to be
more closely supervised, presumably to guarantee the safety of the devices. As an
example of a small-scale study, C.-M. Chen and Chung (2008) developed a rather
sophisticated system for learning vocabulary based on Item ResponseTheory (IRT) and
learning memory cycles for 15 learners of English in Taiwan. Learners had completely
free use of the system for a period of ﬁve weeks, and could access the PDA at any
time or place that suited them. The system kept record of learner progress, and also
tracked whether or not learners were regularly accessing the system. When learners
failed to access the system for two days, they were sent an email reminder, and this
resulted in learners accessing the system relatively consistently. The study yielded
positive feedback from the learners, and learners who used the system showed an
improvement in their vocabulary development compared with learners who did not.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
208
A larger-scale study was carried out by I.-J. Chen and Chang (2011), where 162
Taiwanese learners of English carried PDA devices to Taipei City Zoo and engaged
in animal observation while listening to an audio guide in English. This differed from
a number of previous studies in that learners used the mobile device in such a way
that it enabled them to interact directly with the environment around them, rather
than being a tool to complete activities assigned to them by the teacher such as the
C.-M. Chen and Chung (2008) example above, or to carry out internet searches (e.g.,
Song & Fox, 2008). Learners had the option of listening to the guide at the same time
as reading it as they moved their way around the zoo. Of interest in the results was
that a signiﬁcant number of learners felt that the events at the zoo were distracting
from the learning that they were undertaking, and that the text on the PDA was difﬁcult
to read, although the inclusion of the text did help in comprehending the audio guide.
This has interesting implications for the use of mobile devices in public places, as it
indicates that tasks and activities that require a degree of concentration can be difﬁcult
to complete unless the environment is appropriate.
Mobile phones
Recent studies into mobile phone use for language learning loosely ﬁt into two
categories: those that entail some kind of communication tool such as SMS or
mobile email, and those that use applications either through an internet browser or
a pre-installed application. Like many early studies into PDAs, research on mobile
phones often took place in classroom situations (Thornton & Houser, 2005), although
more recent research has also moved into more naturalistic settings. Despite the fact
that the technologies themselves have started to resemble each other, one primary
difference that deﬁnes them is the fact that PDAs were on loan whereas students
used their own private mobile phones. There is an obvious psychological difference
between using a device which is dedicated to language learning (as in the loaned PDA)
and a device which is owned by the learner and has practical uses apart from learning.
While this is discussed in more depth below, sufﬁce to say that when the cost of using
a technology is placed onto the learners, there is likely to be an adverse effect on how
much they are willing to engage with it.
Regarding the content of research into using mobile phones, studies that have
involved SMS usage generally involved sending information about vocabulary items
much like a digital ﬂashcard (N.-S. Chen, Hsieh & Kinshuk, 2008), but other uses
have been more innovative. Kennedy and Levy (2008), for example, sent various
text notiﬁcations related to their language learning, including information about
what they had learned during class, details of upcoming television programmes and
other interesting facts about the target language and culture. With the development
of faster internet browsing and more user-friendly operating systems for mobile
phones, application-based research has started to appear more frequently in recent
years. Some of the online systems have been quite complex, including intelligent
aspects that keep records of learner progress and match activities to suit individual
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 209
learners (Stockwell, 2007). The system developed by Stockwell operated through
the browser function on the phone and provided vocabulary activities for Japanese
learners of English, adapting to the learner through detailed records of their
progress. Learners in this study were given the option of using either their mobile
phones or desktop computers, and while the mobile interface was simpliﬁed to
make it easier to use given the smaller screen, the vast majority opted to use the
desktop computer in preference to the mobile device to complete the activities.
In a later study to investigate the possible causes for this, Stockwell (2008) found
that cost factors, the small screen size and the study environment lead learners to
feel that the desktop computer was sufﬁcient for completing activities. Although
learners generally gave a positive impression of the activities themselves, the fact
that usage was very low was certainly a point for concern, as is discussed in the
following section.
Issues of concern with mobile learning
Although mobile devices have the potential to give learners greater access to learning
opportunities, there are also a number of issues which have the potential to shape
the way in which they can be used. Obviously the portable nature of the technology
means that it has certain physical characteristics which determine what it is and is
not suited to, and this also affects how learners view it for learning purposes. There is
also a psychological dimension to mobile learning, where the degree of acceptance by
learners will depend very much on their skills, experiences, as well as their preferences
for determining how these devices will be used. Finally, as mobile devices come to be
used for educational purposes, there is also a need to consider their appropriateness
for learning situations, particularly given their parallel non-learning uses. These points
are described in more depth below.
Physical issues
The physical characteristics of mobile devices have been cited by many researchers,
particularly with regard to the size of the screen and the inconvenient keypad (see
Stockwell, 2008, for a discussion). While it is true that the screens of newer devices
such as smartphones and PDAs are bigger and use different input methods from
earlier ones, there are still obvious difﬁculties in reading from the screen, particularly
when there are distractions (I.-J. Chen & Chung, 2011). Learners may be willing to
read shorter texts on mobile devices, but when the text is longer there is deﬁnitely
a clear preference for reading through desktop computers (Huang & Lin, 2011). In
addition to these, as Koole (2009) points out, other issues that can have an effect on
how mobile devices are used are the general size and weight, the ﬁle storage capacity,
hardware and software malfunctions and processor speed. It is the total balance of
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
210
all of these factors which will determine how a mobile device can be best used in
language learning.
Psychological issues
As has been alluded to in the results of a number of the studies outlined above, there
are also psychological considerations regarding the ways in which learners – and
teachers – view mobile learning. A fundamental issue pertains to the assumption that
learners are competent users of new technologies, and this is perhaps even more
evident when learners themselves own these technologies. However, as Bennett,
Maton and Kervin (2008, p. 779) point out, ‘a signiﬁcant proportion of young people
do not have the levels of access or technology skills predicted by proponents of the
digital natives idea’, meaning that we cannot simply assume that learners will be able
to use mobile devices just because they were brought up in an environment where
they are surrounded by them. In the studies by Abdous, Camarena and Facer (2009)
on podcasting and Stockwell (2008) on mobile phones, there was an unexpectedly
low proportion of users who opted to use mobile devices. In both studies, there
were learners who did not use the mobile tools available simply because they did
not know how. In addition, as described in Stockwell (2008, 2010), many learners just
did not feel that the mobile device (in this case a mobile phone) was an appropriate
tool for language learning, and others preferred to engage in activities in a quieter
environment where they could concentrate. When we think about this lack of use, we
may conclude that the expectations that many teachers have of learners engaging in
language learning tasks and activities using mobile devices may not match the skills,
expectations and perceptions held by the learners, and at the same time, teachers
may not have a clear idea of when and where learners will engage in them. If the
discrepancy between teachers’ and learners’ views becomes too great, it is likely that
it will result in learners forming negative images of mobile learning, and prevent them
from undertaking it actively.
Pedagogical issues
The characteristics of the mobile device, the learners’ skills and attitudes, and the way
in which the device is used for non-educational purposes will all have an effect on the
pedagogical value of language learning tasks and activities. A brief look through the
literature reveals that there are very few studies that actually provide detailed training
to learners in undertaking mobile learning outside of class time. With the exception
of studies such as C.-M. Chen and Chung (2008), who provided their learners with
2 hours of detailed training with a PDA before asking them to study outside of class,
the majority of studies provide little or no training, or at the very least, have no mention
of this (see Hubbard, 2004, for a discussion of learner training). Knowledge of how
to use a technology for personal purposes does not mean that they will know how to
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 211
use it effectively for learning purposes, and this will obviously impact the pedagogical
effectiveness of tasks and activities. Related to this is the supposition that because
devices are used outside of class, then they will encourage learner autonomy. Learner
autonomy is achieved only when a learner reaches a point where they are both
willing and able to take responsibility for learning on their own, two points that do
not necessarily coincide (see Stockwell, 2012, for a discussion). Finally, it is important
to bear in mind the ways in which learners typically use mobile devices for personal
purposes actually are, as this will likely affect how they are used for learning purposes.
For example, Kemp (2010) found that around three-quarters of native-speaking users
regularly used what is termed as textisms – abbreviations in spelling and spacing as
a result of space limitations and typing difﬁculties – when writing SMS messages to
one another. It is quite feasible, then, that learners may try to apply the same rules of
textisms to messages that are written in a second language as well, sometimes with
little idea of the appropriateness in the target culture.
In addition to these issues, the design of the tasks and activities themselves for
mobile learning needs to consider the environment in which it is used. Given the
potentially unstable environments in which mobile learning may take place, activities
on mobile devices need to be short and succinct, with a very short start-up time as
well as short-segmented sections that can be completed individually as a single unit
(see Metcalf, 2006, for a discussion). In this way, learners can pick up mobile devices
when they have a spare couple of minutes, without wasting time waiting for it to
start up, and without worries about quitting a longer activity mid-way due to external
interruptions. Issues regarding timing may be written into the software, such as the
program that Cui and Bull (2005) designed for Chinese learners of English, TenseITS,
which included a start-up screen which directly asked the learners where they were
undertaking the activities (e.g., Restaurant/Hotel, etc.), the anticipated frequency of
interruption and the expected amount of time to be spent on the activities, but more
often than not, the onus is on the learner to make decisions about which activities to
engage in.
Emerging directions
Making predictions about any developments in the future is difﬁcult, and in essence can
only be based on what we can see around us, and the developments that have already
started to take place. With regard to mobile learning, as the ﬁeld is still establishing
itself in many ways, predictions become even more difﬁcult. In saying this, however,
it is possible to look back the short distance that we have already come and combine
the knowledge we have accrued thus far with the developments in technology that are
currently underway.
Capabilities of mobile devices have already developed dramatically since their
introduction several decades ago, and of these, it is perhaps the mobile phone that
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
212
carries the most promise. As Watson and Plymale (2011) argue, one of the major
factors that is likely to contribute to expanding ubiquitous learning – that is, learning
that is not constrained by time or place – is the development of new smartphones,
which not only allow access to multiple wireless interfaces, but also are equipped
‘with numerous hardware sensors capable of collecting contextual information about
the user and their environment’ (p. 11). One such example is a GPS (Global Positioning
System), which can track where a person is, and can provide information such as
maps and directions, or even trigger messages to be sent to the users’ devices
depending on their location. We might imagine a situation where a person is studying
Japanese in Australia, for example. Their mobile phone has an application installed
that accesses their location using the built-in GPS feature. As they walk down the
street, the application senses that there is a Japanese restaurant nearby, and sends
a message to the person along with a list of vocabulary that might be useful with
regard to Japanese food, such as descriptions of menu items, or even terminology
often used in ordering Japanese food.This type of feature would mean a change from
the commonly used ‘pull’ style of learning, where learners need to seek information
for themselves, to the ‘push’ style, where information is made available to learners
without effort on their part. The use of mobile devices to act as a means of linking
learning events and the real world has been termed ‘augmented reality’ (AR) (see
Kukulska-Hulme, 2009), and one sense is considered as making the optimum use of
the portability of mobile devices to learn.
A second factor that Watson and Plymale describe is the development of the
‘Internet of Things’, which is where people can interact with everyday objects (and
in some cases objects can interact with other objects) through an infrastructure of
‘networked sensors and actuators coupled with low-cost microcontrollers, wireless
technologies, cloud services, and PMI [Physical Mobile Interaction] interfaces’ (2011,
p. 11). At the simplest end of the scale, a PMI may include a QR code, where users
may bring up information about an object or even details of a task (see Rivers, 2009,
for a discussion of QR codes in language learning). Other systems may be far more
complex, where mobile devices can interact with one another using a LAN, WAN or
even Bluetooth, which can send a signal that can be read by a mobile unit (Naismith &
Smith, 2009). This type of interconnectedness means that learners can constantly be
interacting with the things and people around them, and language learning tasks can
be shaped so that they draw learners into interacting with their surroundings in new
and innovative ways.
This type of environment makes it possible for mobile learning to take on a rather
different nature from that which takes place through ﬁxed technologies such as
desktop computers, so that rather than simply replicating computer-based activities
adapted for mobile technologies, learning can be interactive not only between the
learner and the technology that they are holding, but also with their surroundings. In
this way, the mobile phone goes beyond the current main uses of communication
tools (such as email and chat) and internet tools, but can extend to uses which
capitalize upon not only what the user consciously does for language learning, but
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 213
at the same time also keep track of what the learner does for other purposes either
through the phone itself, or simply by where they are when they carry it. Thus,
learners are able to interact with their surroundings in a way that can facilitate
language learning through relating it to potential opportunities that arise as a part
of their daily lives rather than just what occurs in the classroom or in completing
activities or tasks as a part of the class. These language learning opportunities have
the potential to ﬁt naturally into learners’ everyday lives, thereby contributing to the
lowering of barriers between what happens in the classroom and students’ lives
outside of class.
Conclusions
There is no doubt that research into mobile learning is both inevitable and necessary.
As Hémard (2003) argues, the overall validity of CALL applications must be viewed
as being acceptable by learners with regard to both usefulness and enjoyment in
order to be accessed outside the classroom. This is of course relevant to mobile
learning, and there is a need to ensure that the interface makes it comfortable to
use, and at the same time capitalizes upon the mobile characteristics of the device.
Simply adapting PC-based activities for mobile devices is unlikely to link to signiﬁcant
mobile usage due to their inherent psychological and physical limitations. This of
course does not mean that mobile learning should not include some elements
typically associated with more traditional forms of CALL, but these need to take into
consideration not only what technologies are to be used, but also when, why and
how. If the mobile device can act as a link between the learning world and the world
that learners interact with in their daily lives, then there is a greater chance that the
psychological link between mobile devices and learning can be broken down, and
learners can capitalize more upon the opportunities for learning afforded them by the
tools at their ﬁngertips.
As Morris (2011) argues, one of the biggest pedagogical challenges then becomes
ﬁnding ways to utilize available technologies to create a smooth combination of
physical spaces and virtual environments, where knowledge can be imparted that is
immediately relevant to the surrounding context. Finding the balance of how to do this
successfully is likely to be an important issue in the future of mobile learning.
References
Abdous, M., Camarena, M. M., & Facer, B. R. (2009). MALL technology: Use of academic
podcasting in the foreign language classroom. ReCALL, 21(1), 76–95.
Ally. M. (2009). Mobile learning: Transforming the delivery of education & training.
Edmonton, AB: AU Press.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
214
Baron, N. S. (2009). Always on: Language in an online and mobile world. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Bateson, G., & Daniels, P
. (2012). Diversity in technologies. In G. Stockwell (Ed.),
Computer-assisted language learning: Diversity in research and practice (pp. 128–46).
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Bax, S. (2003). CALL – past, present and future. System, 31, 13–28.
Bennett, S., Maton, K., & Kervin, L. (2008). The ‘Digital Natives’ debate: A critical review of
the evidence. British Journal of Educational Technology, 38(5), 775–86.
Chen, C.-M., & Chung, C.-J. (2008). Personalized mobile English vocabulary learning
system based on item response theory and learning memory cycle. Computers &
Education, 51, 624–45.
Chen, I.-J., & Chang, C.-C. (2011). Content presentation modes in mobile language
listening tasks: English proﬁciency as a moderator. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 24(5), 451–70.
Chen, N.-S., Hsieh, S.-W., & Kinshuk. (2008). Effects of short-term memory and content
representation on mobile language learning. Language Learning & Technology, 12(3),
93–112.
Cui, Y., & Bull, S. (2005). Context and learner modeling for the mobile foreign language
learner. System, 33, 353–67
.
Ducate, L., & Lomicka, L. (2009). Podcasting: An effective tool for honing language
students’ pronunciation? Language Learning & Technology, 13(3), 66–86.
Ebner, M., & Billicsish, T. (2011). Is the iPhone a ubiquitous learning device?: First step
towards digital lecture notes. In T. T. Kidd & I. Chen (Eds.), Ubiquitous learning:
Strategies for pedagogy, course design, and technology (pp. 137–51). Charlotte, NC:
Information Age Publishing, Inc.
Green, N., & Haddon, L. (2009). Mobile communications: An introduction to new media.
Oxford: Berg.
Healey, D. (1999). Classroom practice: Communicative skill-building tasks in CALL
environments. In J. Egbert & E. Hanson-Smith (Eds.), CALL environments: Research,
practice and critical issues (pp. 116–36). Alexandria, VA: TESOL.
Hémard, D. (2003). Language learning online: Designing towards user acceptability. In U.
Felix (Ed.), Language learning online: Towards best practice (pp. 21–42). Lisse: Swets &
Zeitlinger.
Hembrooke, H., & Gay, G. (2003). The laptop and the lecture: The effects of multitasking in
learning environments. Journal of Computing in Higher Education, 15, 46–64.
Huang, L.-L., & Lin, C.-C. (2011). EFL learners’ reading on mobile phones. The JALT CALL
Journal, 7(1), 61–78.
Hubbard, P
. (2004). Learner training for effective use of CALL. In S. Fotos & C. Browne
(Eds.), New perspectives on CALL for second language classrooms (pp. 45–68).
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Kemp, N. (2010). Texting versus txtng: Reading and writing text messages, and links with
other linguistic skills. Writing Systems Research, 2(1), 53–71.
Kennedy, C., & Levy, M. (2008). L
’italiano al telefonino: Using SMS to support beginners’
language learning. ReCALL, 20(3), 315–50.
Kidd, T. T., & Chen, I. (2011). Ubiquitous learning: Strategies for pedagogy, course design,
and technology. Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing, Inc.
Kiernan, P
., & Aizawa, K. (2004). Cell phones in task based learning: are cell phones useful
language learning tool? ReCALL, 16(1), 71–84.
Koole, M. (2009). A model for framing mobile learning. In M. Ally (Ed.), Mobile learning:
Transforming the delivery of education & training (pp. 25–47). Athabasca: AU Press.
MOBILE-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING 215
Kukulska-Hulme, A. (2009). Will mobile learning change language learning? ReCALL, 21(2),
157–65.
Kukulska-Hulme, A., & Shield, L. (2008). An overview of mobile assisted language
learning: From content delivery to supported collaboration and interaction. ReCALL,
20(3), 271–89.
Kukulska-Hulme, A., & Traxler, J. (2005). Mobile learning: A handbook for educators and
trainers. London: Routledge.
Levy, M., & Kennedy, C. (2005). Learning Italian via mobile SMS. In A. Kukulska-Hulme
& J. Traxler (Eds.), Mobile learning: A handbook for educators and trainers (pp. 76–83).
London: Routledge.
Metcalf, D. S. (2006). mLearning: Mobile learning and performance in the palm of your
hand. Amherst, MA: HRD Press.
Morris, L.-D. (2011). Helping your lecturers to creatively introduce ubiquitous computing
technologies into their teaching: What every lecturer should know. In T. T. Kidd & I. Chen
(Eds.), Ubiquitous learning: Strategies for pedagogy, course design, and technology
(pp. 209–28). Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing, Inc.
Naismith, L., & Smith, M. P
. (2009). Using mobile technologies for multimedia tours in a
traditional museum setting. In M. Ally (Ed.), Mobile learning: Transforming the delivery
of education & training (pp. 247–64). Edmonton, AB: AU Press.
O’Bryan, A., & Hegelheimer, V. (2007). Integrating CALL into the classroom: The role of
podcasting in an ESL listening strategies course. ReCALL, 19(2), 162–80.
Prensky, M. (2001). Digital natives, digital immigrants. On the Horizon, 9(5), 1–6.
Rivers, D. J. (2009). Utilizing the quick response (QR) code within a Japanese EFL
environment. The JALT CALL Journal, 5(2), 15–28.
Rosell-Aguilar, F
. (2007). Top of the pods: In search of a podcasting ‘podagogy’ for
language learning. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 20(5), 471–92.
Song, Y., & Fox, R. (2008). Using PDA for undergraduate student incidental vocabulary
testing. ReCALL, 20(3), 290–314.
Stockwell, G. (2007). Vocabulary on the move: Investigating an intelligent mobile
phone-based vocabulary tutor. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 20(4), 365–83.
— (2008). Investigating learner preparedness for and usage patterns of mobile learning.
ReCALL, 20(3), 253–70.
— (2010). Using mobile phones for vocabulary activities: Examining the effect of the
platform. Language Learning & Technology, 14(2), 95–110.
— (2012). Introduction. In G. Stockwell (Ed.), Computer-assisted language learning:
Diversity in research and practice (pp. 1–13). New York: Cambridge University Press.
Thornton, P
., & Houser, C. (2005). Using mobile phones in English education in Japan.
Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 21(3), 217–28.
Traxler, J. (2007). Deﬁning, discussing, and evaluating mobile learning: The moving ﬁnger
writes and having writ. . . . International Review of Research in Open and Distance
Learning, 8(2), 1–12.
Trifanova, A., Knapp, J., Ronchetti, M., & Gamper, J. (2004) Mobile ELDIT: Challenges in
the transitions from an e-learning to an m-learning system. Trento, Italy: University of
Trento.
Trinder, J., Magill, J., & Roy, S. (2005). Expect the unexpected: Practicalities and problems
of a PDA project. In A. Kukulska-Hulme & J. Traxler (Eds.), Mobile learning: A handbook
for educators and trainers (pp. 92–7). London: Routledge.
Watson, C. E., & Plymale, W. O. (2011). The pedagogy of things: Ubiquitous learning,
student culture, and constructivist pedagogical practice. In T. T. Kidd & I. Chen (Eds.),
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
216
Ubiquitous learning: Strategies for pedagogy, course design, and technology (pp. 3–16).
Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing, Inc.
Weinberg, A., Knorr, H., & Vandergrift, L. (2011). Creating podcasts for academic listening
in French: Student perceptions of enjoyment and usefulness. CALICO Journal, 28(3),
588–605.
Weiss, S. (2002). Handheld usability. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons.
12
CALL in low-tech contexts
Dafne Gonzalez and Rubena St. Louis
Summary
Slow internet connections, the lack of limited ﬁnances or educational facilities with
few resources have made it difﬁcult, and in many cases impossible, for language
learners to obtain the beneﬁts of learning via computers. In foreign language learning
where learners need to communicate with other speakers of the target language, it is
essential that ways to promote authentic interaction be found. While the use of Web
tools has made this interaction easier, an internet connection is, however, needed.
Experience in distance education, carried out using snail mail with video cassettes and
CD-ROMs has shown that learning in low-technology (low-tech) contexts is feasible
and although poor internet access can be an obstacle, it is one that can be overcome.
Radio, TV, telephones and more recently mobile phones are examples of mediums
through which language can be accessed in low-technology contexts. The challenge
facing teachers is to ﬁnd a way in which these mediums can be used in conjunction
with computers to facilitate learning.
Introduction
Language teaching has always made use of the technology available (Bates,
2005; Chapelle, 2001; Eyring, 2001; Hanson- Smith, 2001; Warschauer, 1996),
and the emergence of digital technologies has not been an exception. As a result,
computer-based learning can be found in most schools worldwide today; however,
there are still vast numbers of students who have no, or limited access to technology
and its beneﬁts. The potential the internet has as a source and medium of learning is
not being fully exploited. Furthermore, even if such technologies were available many
teachers do not seem to have the ‘know how’ to integrate it into their educational praxis
(Fawzi, 2010; Stevens, 2010; Yuildez & Tatar, 2010). This problem, faced by educators
in low-tech contexts, also concerns those who would like to ﬁnd ways of bridging this
technological gap (Egbert & Yang, 2004; Venezky, 2000; Warschauer, 2003).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
218
One of the main criticisms of e-learning has been the digital divide, which has been
deﬁned as ‘Complex and dynamic factors that determine who has access to which
computer-mediated technology’ (Kaur Khalsa, Maloney-Krichmar & Kreeft Peyton,
2007
, p. 24). It has been a source of concern since the implementation of information
technology in the 1970s (Fong, 2009; Valdivia, 2008; Venezky, 2000; Warschauer,
2004). Access not only refers to the physical availability of hardware, networks and
computer services, but also to conditional access to computer programs, applications
and multimedia content which are often sold at a high cost or available as online
resources for a fee. Computers and computer services may be more readily available
to teachers and learners in developed countries through their schools, libraries, internet
cafes or for personal use at home. Many educational facilities may be equipped with
computer laboratories with broadband access and have budgets which cover the costs
of educational software, either online or in DVD format.
Less-developed countries, on the other hand, may be plagued by a poor
telecommunications infrastructure which may hinder internet access. Although an
increase in the use of ICT is on the agenda of all developing countries (Parliamentary
Ofﬁce of Science and Technology, 2006) there are a few problems that these
countries face. These include the implementation of government policy with
regard to the role of technology in education, limited budgets for the purchase of
educational software or computer hardware, a scarcity of human resources with
the technological expertise to implement technology in the classroom, as well as a
lack of technical skills on the part of the student at the receiving end (Dalha, 2010;
Marandi, 2010;Yildiz &Tatar, 2010). As a result, it may be difﬁcult, and in many cases
impossible, for large numbers of foreign language learners worldwide to obtain the
maximum beneﬁts of learning via computers and other digital devices (Gulati, 1981;
Hvorecky, 2004).
In the ﬁeld of foreign language (FL) learning, where learners need to communicate
with other speakers, both native and those competent in the target language, it is
essential that ways to promote authentic interaction be found. The incorporation of
Web 2.0 tools in education might help to achieve this by allowing language practitioners
access to free software and educational resources available on the Web (Gonzalez
& Almeida, 2006; Gonzalez & St. Louis, 2008; Motteram & Sharma, 2009; Peachey,
2009). While the use of Web-based resources has made this interaction easier, an
internet connection is, however, needed. Problems of physical access to the internet
may again be a major obstacle. Apart from these physical constraints, the digital divide
can also be seen in situations in which teachers with all these technological resources
lack the necessary skills to incorporate them into their pedagogical practice in such
a way as to promote language learning (Egbert & Yang, 2004; Hanson-Smith, 2001;
Motteram & Sharma, 2009).
Therefore, a digital divide may be said to exist, not only among teachers who work in
environments in which there is insufﬁcient access to ICT, but also in those environments
where teachers are unable to use these resources adequately. Consequently, the digital
divide can be said to refer to both physical and human constraints. It is important,
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 219
therefore, to determine the characteristics of environments where these constraints
are found in order to suggest possible ways in which they can be overcome.
This chapter examines the factors that describe low-tech contexts in computer-
assisted language learning (CALL) today to determine if they are similar to those
described in the literature. This will be done through the responses given by language
practitioners from different countries worldwide to a survey entitled, ‘Media and
Language Teaching Context’, which was created especially to obtain data for this
chapter.The experience of some teachers who work in low-tech environments will also
be described, since they can be used to help those who are facing similar challenges.
Finally, some strategies that teachers in this type of setting can use to overcome the
obstacles faced will be discussed.
Deﬁnition of low-technology contexts
Although language learning in low-technology contexts has been discussed (Dalha,
2010; Egbert & Yang, 2004; Kam, Ramachandran, Devanathan, Tewari & Canny, 2007;
Tamela, Scolari & Bedient, 2000; Warschauer, 2004), the available literature does not
provide a clear-cut deﬁnition for this term. According to Webster’s New World College
Dictionary low-tech means ʻnot involving specialized, complex technology in full’. This
deﬁnition is not very enlightening as it does not explain what complex technology is.
The American Heritage Dictionary, in turn, deﬁnes high technology as ‘Technology
that involves highly advanced or specialized systems or devices’. Therefore, what is
advanced and specialized in one period, would be outdated in another, as in the case
of the videocassette recorder (VCR), which was considered a ‘high-tech’ resource in
the 1980s and is now ‘low-tech’ by twenty-ﬁrst-century standards.
Rather than deﬁning these terms, some authors (Egbert & Yang, 2004; Kelly, 2008)
tend to describe the constraints that characterize the digital divide and which in turn,
determine if the context is low-tech. Egbert and Yang (2004) mention several of these
conditions which characterize ‘limited’ or ‘low-tech’ settings. They include the problem
of access, which might range from no internet connection, to a general or limited access
to the technology due to a slow connection, limited bandwidth, reduced contact hours
as a result of computer lab availability and a low computer to student ratio. Censorship
is also mentioned as a contributing factor as school administrators or government
bodies might also prohibit access to certain sites (Marshall, 2009; Ngeow, 2010). Finally,
software packages might also prove in time to be incompatible with newer operating
systems or the activities might not provide students with sufﬁcient and varied input for
different learning styles. Egbert and Yang (2004) however, consider that it is precisely
this type of environment that has ‘unlimited potential to support learning opportunities
in the language classroom’ (p. 283). This is true if teachers possess the knowledge
to use the limited resources at hand to promote learning. This connection seems to
be reﬂected in the deﬁnition of technology offered by the United Nations Education,
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
220
Social and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) (1985) in which the individual’s ‘know-how’
and creative processes in the use of tools, resources and systems allows them to
solve problems and improve their lives.
In the case of CALL, the know-how and creative processes could correspond to the
approaches and techniques used by the teachers in the classroom, while the tools,
resources and systems could be viewed as media through which learners come into
contact and interact with the language.
Overview of how technology has been used in
educational settings in the last few decades
The last 60 years has seen a revolution in the way the language learning ﬁeld has
evolved and it has gone hand in hand with the advances made in ICT. In this sense,
Warschauer (1996) divides the history of CALL into three phases which correspond to
movements in language learning acquisition theory: behaviourist, communicative and
integrative.
The ﬁrst stage, behaviourist CALL, was based on the movement of the same name
and entailed the use of computers in language laboratories for the learning of language
through repetitive drills. This was followed in the 1980s by the communicative CALL
stage, and the use of computer programs which allowed students to be more actively
involved with the language by stimulating creative thinking, discussion and the
development of writing skills through simulations in games and the use of desk-top
publishing (DTP).
Advances in technology and the public use of the internet, led to the third phase of
Integrative CALL in the 1990s. Through multimedia, learners were exposed to a more
authentic environment in which images and audio were incorporated into programs on
CD-ROMs and hyperlinks within texts allowed students the freedom to explore varied
content at their own speed.
The end of the twentieth century and the increased use of the internet saw the
dawn of another phase of CALL, Intelligent CALL (ICALL) (Warschauer & Healey,
1998) in which it was hoped that the developments in software (speech-recognition,
language corpus, concordances) and multimedia formats would create a rich language
environment where learning would be more personal, catering to the individual styles
and needs of students and which would allow them to hypothesize about, and use
language, in more authentic ways.
Coming into the twenty-ﬁrst century, rapid developments in technology have perhaps
seen the arrival of this fourth phase in CALL in which high-speed internet connections,
advances in digital technology and the reduction in size of computer hardware has
made an impact on society. From laptop computers, MP3 players, multimedia mobile
phones and tablets to the latest in software, the learning environment, as we know it,
is changing. The development of Web 2.0 has increased communication by allowing
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 221
users to connect with others through dynamic websites and networking communities
like Facebook, My Space and Twitter (Borau, Ullrich & Shen, 2009; Harrison &
Thomas, 2009). The use of Flash-based applications, open source programming and
sites such as YouTube, Ustream and Flickr, along with text and video blogs and wikis
have allowed users to express their creativity, search for and share information and
learning resources, and more importantly, communicate with others around the world
(Godwin-Jones, 2003; Martinez-Carillo & Pentikousis, 2008; Motteran & Sharma, 2009;
Thorne & Payne, 2005). These online resources have also opened doors to an even
more authentic environment for language learning through virtual worlds like Second
Life (Gonzalez, Palomeque & Sweeney, 2011; Jauregi, Canto, de Graaff, Koenraad &
Moonen, 2011; Motteran & Sharma, 2009; Sweeney, Palomeque & González, 2010),
and online games (Peterson, 2010; Rankin, Gold & Gooch, 2006; Stanley & Mawer,
2008 ). The proliferation of blogs, wikis, chatrooms, social media networks and virtual
environments reﬂect individuals’ desire to interact with those around them and these
are a rich source of language learning opportunities (Evans, 2009; McLoughlin & Lee,
2007; Sykes, Oskoz & Thorne, 2008; Thomas, 2009).
Although CALL has been present in language learning since the middle of the
twentieth century, adapting to the changes in language learning theory, the digital divide
has always existed between those who have the technology and use it adequately and
those who do not.
CALL and low-tech environments
Although the literature refers to the characteristics of low-tech environments (Dalha,
2010; Egbert & Yang, 2004; Gulati, 1981; Kelly, 2008 ), and of the importance of the
adequate use of technology in teaching in these contexts (Bonk, Ehman, Hixon &
Yamagata-Lynch, 2002; Egbert & Yang, 2004; Hanson-Smith, 2001; Koehler & Mishra,
2009; Mishra & Koehler, 2006), we thought it necessary to learn from practitioners
themselves, from around the world, whether they considered their context to
be low-tech or not, the tools they used and how these were integrated into their
praxis. Furthermore, individual teachers, who were chosen because of their different
geographical locations and expertise in teaching language with technology, were
asked to deﬁne low-technology and describe how CALL had been implemented in
their classes.
A survey was sent out to teachers worldwide via the members’ list of several
international language learning groups. This survey required information on the
country the participants were working in, student age group, language(s) taught and
type of teaching and language context. Participants were also asked whether they
considered their work environment to be low-tech and to describe the context. Finally,
they were given a number of different resources ranging from blackboard and radio
to videoconferencing and mobile phones, and were asked to choose the ones they
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
222
worked with and describe the manner in which these resources were used in their
classes. Participants were not asked to deﬁne a low-technology context but rather it
was hoped that through an analysis of their work environment and the tools that they
used, we could arrive at the factors which determine whether a teaching context was
low-tech. As this survey was sent to distribution lists, it was a self-selecting process
with regard to teacher participation over which there was no researcher control. The
survey was open from the 29th of June to the 15th of October, 2011 and 100 replies
were received.
Moreover, individual teachers from Sudan, Cyrus, Portugal, Tajikistan, Peru, Russia,
Iran,Turkey,Venezuela and Colombia were asked to deﬁne low-technology and describe
how CALL had been implemented in their praxis.These teachers were chosen because,
apart from their experience in CALL, they were working in countries which could be
considered to have technological constraints. Five of these teachers replied to this
request.
It was hoped that the information obtained on country, level of education, type
of educational institute, type of language taught (foreign or second language) and
resources used by the teachers in the survey, would be factors in determining and
helping to deﬁne a low-technology environment.
The results
Although this survey was sent to online CALL interest groups and teacher development
communities, the data revealed that of the 100 respondents from 37 countries, 48%
considered their language teaching environments to be low-tech (see Figure 12.1).
The data also showed (see Table 12.1) that in all educational levels represented in
this survey there were low and non-low-technology contexts.
In Figure 12.2, we can see that this was also true for the type of language being
taught, namely, Foreign Language (FL), (80%) or Second Language (SL), (20%).
What stands out in Figure 12.3 is that some teachers from within the same country
believed their teaching environments to be low-tech while others did not.This was the
52% 48%
Low-tech Non-low-tech
FIGURE 12.1 Respondents in low-tech and non-low-tech contexts.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 223
case with Spain, Canada, France, the United States and Venezuela. This supports the
argument that the perceived digital divide also exists within countries (Fong, 2009;
Marandi, 2010; Venezky, 2000) regardless of the country’s economic standing, as the
United States is a developed country while Spain and Venezuela may be considered to
be less developed.
Determining factors for a low-tech context
According to the data, neither the country, the level of education nor the foreign or
second language context seem to be factors which indicate if the teaching context
TABLE 12.1 Low and non-low-tech respondents by levels taught
Level Low-tech Non-Low-tech
Adults 11 10
Academies 3 4
Primary 7 4
Secondary 9 9
Tertiary 15 20
Vocational 3 5
48 52
LT
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
Non-LT
FL SL
FIGURE 12.2 Respondents teaching FL and SL in low-tech and non-low-tech contexts.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
224
was low-tech or not. This is in contrast to what is found in the research literature on
the digital divide in general, which mentions socio-demographic factors such as age
(Bonfadelli, 2002; Cheng, 2007; Fox & Madden, 2005) and socio-economic status/
education (Hargittai & Walejko, 2008; Madden, 2003; Peter & Valkenburg, 2006; Van
Dijk, 2005) as predictors of the digital divide.
Next, an analysis of the description of the teaching environment of the respondents,
who considered that they worked in a low-technology context, was done. Human and
institutional constraints were mentioned. It should be pointed out that the physical
constraints mentioned in the literature (Kaur Khalsa, Maloney-Krichmar & Kreeft Peyton,
2007;Yildiz &Tatar, 2010) are found here under the category of institutional constraints,
as we believe that it is the administration which controls the ﬁnances, and therefore
the availability of those resources which permit the physical access to technology.The
human and institutional constraints reported by the respondents are outlined below:
Human constraints reported by 14.58% of the teachers
l
lack of teacher preparation for using technology in language teaching
m
teachers not interested in using technology
m
students associate technology with non-academic purposes
m
Institutional constraints reported by 60.41% of the teachers
l
lack of institutional support
m
insufﬁcient budget
m
Argentina
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Australia
Belgium
Brasil
Canada
Colombia
Croatia
Czech
Rep
Denmark
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Israel
Italy
Japan
Kazahkstan
Mexico
New
Zealand
Peru
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Saudi
Arabia
Slovenia
Spain
Switzerland
Taiwan
Holland
Turkey
UAE
UK
Ukraine
USA
Venezuela
Low-tech Non-low-tech
FIGURE 12.3 Distribution of low-tech and non-low-tech contexts by countries.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 225
Physical constraints
l
only whiteboard, CD/DVD players
m
no computers for students
m
insufﬁcient number of computers for students
m
outdated hardware
m
High cost of internet access
l
limited or no internet access available
m
Most of these factors, which create a challenge when incorporating technology in the
language classroom, correspond to those mentioned by Kaur Khalsa et al. (2007) when
discussing the digital divide. Therefore, these teachers appear to be at a disadvantage
with regard to their colleagues in other contexts who have an adequate infrastructure,
that is, wireless internet access, internet access and computers for all the students
or at least a connected PC in the classroom, as mentioned by respondents who rated
their working environment as being non-low-tech. However, as Egbert andYang (2004)
point out, this scenario is not necessarily as negative as it may seem.
At this point, the ﬁrst two factors which may incur in the description of a low-
technology context, according to the replies given, are the human and institutional or
physical constraints, which concur with the literature on the digital divide in the area
of language learning.
Tools used in low and non-low-tech contexts
The survey also asked participants to select the tools that they used in their
praxis. These ranged from the earliest audio and visual medium, the radio and
blackboard, to the latest audio-visual gadgets, mobile phones and tablets. These
tools were selected to reﬂect a cross-section of the different audio-visual medium
used in language teaching in the last century (see Figure 12.4).
Speciﬁc Web 2.0 tools were not itemized in the survey but rather left for teachers to
include in the category ‘Other’. This was done to guarantee that these were included
because the respondents knew and actually used them.
AsTable 12.2 illustrates, teachers in both low-tech and non-low-tech groups used all
of the tools listed in the survey to a greater or lesser extent.
However, the tools most used by those who considered their context to be low-tech
were the stand-alone PC with overhead projector and CD-ROMs with 70.21% each,
while the non-low-tech group used the whiteboard, email and DVD, all with 78.84%.
The high number of respondents who reported using CD-ROMs may be due to ﬁrst,
their inclusion in materials bought from publishers and second, the fact that they
can be used with a stand-alone PC without an internet connection. Most published
materials come with a CD-ROM for use by the students while the DVD component
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
226
must be purchased additionally.This would incur an extra cost for the institution which
may not be a problem for teachers working in a non-low-tech environment where the
administration has invested in infrastructure, hardware and software.This may account
for why 78.84% of the teachers in this group report the use of DVDs compared to
59.57% in the low-tech group.
Webcasts were used by 27% of the non-low-tech group compared to 15% in the
low-tech group. This may be due to the difference in availability and quality of the
internet connection for teachers in both groups.
It should be noted that mobile phones and phone conferences were used by
28% and 10.63% of teachers in the low-tech group. In the non-low-tech group, these
resources were used by 11.52% and 3.84% respectively. This might be a result of the
availability of telephone communication over internet access in their areas.This seems
to support m-learning, the use of mobile phones for education, which is being explored
and implemented in different locations around the world (MILLEE, 2004; Moura &
Carvalho, 2009; Project ABC / IMAC, 2009; Yoza Project, 2009).
The data also revealed that there were a number of tools that were used by both
groups. The blackboard is still a favourite with 51.06% of the respondents in the
low-tech group and 48% in the non-low-tech.Tablets were also mentioned by 6.39% of
teachers in the low-tech and 5.76% of those in the non-low-tech group. It is, however,
the least used by both groups. 70.21% of the teachers in the low-tech group and
71.15% in the non-low-technology group reported the stand-alone PC as a medium for
language teaching. Nevertheless, it should be noted that teachers in the ﬁrst group
0
Blackboard
Whiteboard
Electronic whiteboard
Audio language lab
Stand-alone + proj.
Computer lab
Tablets
Mobile phones
Phone conferences
Video conferences
Webcasts
Email
Radio
CD ROMs
DVDs
Other
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
FIGURE 12.4 Tools used by respondents in low and non-low-tech contexts.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 227
mentioned the stand-alone PC as the only computer resource in the classroom while
teachers in the non-low-tech group remarked that they had classrooms with individual
PCs for students.
The whiteboard, email and computer labs are widely used by both groups although
there is a 10% difference in the ﬁgures for each tool when compared with the
non-low-tech group. It should also be pointed out that the radio is still being used by
teachers in both groups with 10.63% (low-tech) and 11.53% (non-low-tech) as it is a
resource for authentic listening as reported in the survey.
An analysis of the tools found in the ‘Other’ category revealed that teachers in
both groups incorporated Web 2.0 tools in their teaching.These included MP3 players,
podcasting applications, blogs, wikis and Web-based video sites like YouTube. They
also mentioned the use of LMSs (Learning Management Systems) mainly Moodle, for
asynchronous communication, and as a gateway for course materials. 45.83% of the
teachers in the low-tech group reported using these resources compared to 46.15%
TABLE 12.2 Tools used in low and non-low-tech contexts
Tools Low-tech % Non-Low-tech %
Blackboard 24 51.06 25 48
Whiteboard 32 68.08 41 78.84
Electronic Whiteboard 7 15 10 19.23
Audio language lab 13 28 17 32.69
Stand-alone PC
With OHP
33 70.21 37 71.15
Computer lab 25 53.19 33 63.46
Tablets 3 6.39 3 5.76
Mobile phones 13 28 6 11.52
Phone conferences 5 10.63 2 3.84
Video conferences 10 21.27 13 25
Webcasts 7 15 14 27
Email 32 68.08 41 78.84
Radio 5 10.63 6 11.53
CD-ROM 33 70.21 36 69.26
DVD 28 59.57 41 78.84
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
228
of those in the non-low-tech group. A few teachers in the low-tech group also cited
Twitter, Facebook and virtual worlds (Second Life) as a means of communicating with
their students, practising language and for teacher development respectively. However,
none of the teachers in the other group reported this use.
Only 46.15% of teachers in the non-low-tech group reported using Web 2.0 tools
in their teaching. This may be considered low given the importance of these tools
in promoting authentic interaction and communication among learners (Duffy, 2007;
Peachey, 2009; Raith, 2009; Thomas, 2009). As one respondent stated ‘they bring
authenticity into the classroom’.
It could be inferred from the analysis of the data for this item that the teachers who
considered their environment to be low-tech feel a more urgent need to overcome this
obstacle, and so resort to ﬁnding other ways in which the missing or scarce resources
could be incorporated into their teaching.This can be seen by the growth in the number
of participants from South America, Eastern Europe and Asia who participate in online
communities and online professional development sessions.
An example of this is ‘Becoming a Webhead’, a hands-on workshop on how to use
Web communication tools for language teaching and learning (Gonzalez, 2004), which
is offered for free as part of the yearly TESOL Electronic Village Online. Unlike second
language teachers, those who teach foreign languages lack the language input that
their SL counterparts have at their disposal for their students. As a result, they need to
explore how a range of options could provide this target language exposure for their
students and Web 2.0 has emerged as one of the best options available. Let us now
take a closer look at how these practitioners are integrating ICT into their contexts.
Use of tools in low-tech contexts
The way technological tools are used in educational low-tech contexts is very important
if we want to offer strategies to teachers working in this type of environment. To this
end, based on the data received, the tools inTable 12.3 below (the stand-alone PC with
overhead projector, CD-ROM, whiteboard, email, DVD, computer lab and blackboard)
were selected. Although few teachers reported the use of Web 2.0 tools, it was
considered important that they be included as these resources can be used by other
teachers who are willing to incorporate them in their teaching. The same can be said
for the inclusion of mobile phones, as this cutting-edge technology is quickly gaining
ground in settings where other types of ICT might be difﬁcult to access (MILLEE,
2004; Moura & Carvalho, 2009; Project ABC/IMAC, 2009; Yoza Project, 2009).
Table 12.2 shows that both teachers in low-tech and non-low-tech settings use the
same tools, while Table 12.3 shows the way in which teachers in the low-tech group
incorporate these resources in their teaching. On comparing this to the teachers in the
non-low-tech group, it was found that both groups used them in the same way.
It should be noted that differences between the two groups have to do with physical
constraints and not with the way in which the technological resources are implemented
in the classroom. That it is to say, teachers who consider their environment to be
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 229
non-low-tech, reported having more computers per student in the classroom as well
as in the language lab, but there was no difference in the way the actual tools were
used.
The information from the survey seems to indicate that institutional or physical
constraints, and to a lesser extent human constraints, are important factors in
determining the type of technological teaching context (Egbert & Yang, 2004; Kaur
Khalsa, Maloney-Krichmar & Kreeft Peyton, 2007). Moreover, the fact that teachers
in low-tech environments used the tools in the same way as their colleagues in
TABLE 12.3 How some tools are used in low-tech contexts
Resource Ways in which it is used
Stand-alone PC with
overhead projector
To use with PPTs to introduce new topics and explain grammar
•
and vocabulary
To show illustrations and images
•
To project quizzes
•
CD-ROM To develop listening comprehension skills in the language lab
•
Whiteboard To present and review vocabulary, grammar explanations
•
To brainstorm ideas
•
Email To communicate with students
•
To send reading materials
•
To send and receive student assignments
•
DVD To develop listening and speaking skills
•
Computer lab To play interactive games to develop grammar, vocabulary and
•
reading
To write in wikis and blogs
•
To do various tasks using the internet
•
To use licensed audio-visual resources to develop language
•
skills
Blackboard To teach vocabulary and syntax
•
To explain grammar
•
Mobile phones To make announcements
•
To keep in touch with students
•
To complete class activities (e.g., look up unknown vocabulary
•
on android phones)
Web 2.0 tools (blogs,
wikis, podcasts)
Wikis and blogs:
To post lessons and assignments
•
To do collaborative work
•
Podcasts
To practise listening, speaking and pronunciation
•
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
230
non-low-tech settings may be due to the formers’ involvement in online communities
where knowledge sharing and scaffolding occur.
Let us now look at how ﬁve experienced teachers who work in low-tech environments
describe their teaching situation in more detail to see what additional factors, if any,
emerge.
Low-tech contexts according to practitioners
The individual teachers, who were asked to deﬁne what they considered to be a low-
tech environment, described it in the following manner:
A low-tech context for me includes schools with limited use of technology due
to lack of appropriate equipment or even worse, due to lack of qualiﬁed trained
staff. So, if there is no computer lab in a school, no laptops, no video projectors or
maybe only one or two, or interactive whiteboards that would be a low-tech school.
What is more, a school that is adequately equipped with all the aforementioned
technology tools but has no trained teachers to use them is again deﬁned as a
low-tech school. There is no worse thing that teachers thinking that the use of
PowerPoint presentations in the classroom is the ultimate way of implementing
new technologies in their teaching. (Cyprus)
Low-technology environment – is this an environment where technology is rarely
used by people in their everyday life? If yes, then in such environment people value
technology less because they do not know what it can do for them. The majority
because of limited knowledge and conservative thinking do not see much value in
technology; do not want changes in life which technology rich environment has. Such
low-technology environments lag behind compared to rich technology environments.
Those who are literate using technology may not be able to implement their ideas
or face challenges working with the majority. (Tajikistan)
Low-technology contexts are very difﬁcult to describe as our context is very diverse.
What I ﬁnd as very strange is that our classes and working environment is full of
technology. But no one uses the technology. Sudan is an example of a country
where telecommunication services are the best in Africa. But the ‘low know how’
and the use of technology in services other than education makes our contexts very
low-tech. (Sudan)
I considered my one computer classroom a low-tech context, basically because
there was only my laptop for 28 students. Is it correct to deﬁne this context as
low-tech considering we had access to other technology, namely, a video projector?
I think so in terms of the very limited student/computer ratio. (Portugal)
I consider I work in a low-tech environment. Although the university has a
certain number of rooms equipped with computers and access to the internet,
the number of rooms is limited considering the number of students. Therefore,
professors need to compete for the availability of those rooms. Besides that,
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 231
there are certain restrictions in campus regarding the kind of websites and
services that can be accessed. For example, Second Life cannot be used inside
campus. ‘Aula virtual’, our LMS, has many restrictions and does not offer full
functionality. Many professors need to resort to free-access platforms (Yahoo,
Google, Wikispaces etc.) and often have to deal with advertising and other
problems. A ﬁnal aspect is the availability of wireless internet. The university
has just two or three wireless networks and they don’t work all the time and are
available in speciﬁc parts of the campus. Some are blocked even for professors.
To sum up, there is technology access in my context but this comes with serious
limitations if compared with other contexts. Most professors have to put their
creativity and virtuosity to [work to] provide effective ICT tools and support for
their students. (Venezuela)
As can be seen from these comments, there are three aspects which standout: the lack
of adequate physical resources, trained staff and those who resist the incorporation
of technology in their teaching. These comments conﬁrm the constraints (human and
institutional) found when analysing the working environment of teachers in the low-
tech group. In this case, institutional constraints correspond to the hardware, available
software and internet connection (physical resources) as it is the administration that
provides them. It is interesting to note, that in both the survey and the replies to the
question posed to speciﬁc teachers, mention was made of this human factor, relating
to practitioners and students. The lack of teacher training and/or the lack of motivation
to incorporate technology into their teaching seems to be an important element for
some of the respondents when describing a low-tech setting. Teacher resistance to
integrating technology, even when having both technological skills and resources,
seems to be another relevant issue (Fawzi, 2010;Yildez &Tatar, 2010).These problems
could be the result of psychological barriers such as personality, attitude, motivation,
self-efﬁcacy, anxiety, stress and locus of control (Correa, 2008), as teachers are required
to move outside of their comfort zone when confronting technology. Students also
appear reluctant to use technology for language learning and seem to consider it only as
a source of entertainment (Yildez & Tatar, 2010). Therefore, it would sound reasonable
to include both the physical and the human factors when attempting to describe a
technological environment in education, and in language teaching in particular. This
seems relevant given that some practitioners seem to link the use of computers with
a certain type of technological environment. That is to say, if computers are used in a
classroom, then it is a no low-tech context. However, they do not seem to consider the
pedagogical use that should be given to these tools.
Low-tech or non-low-tech?
On analysing the responses of those practitioners who consider their work environment
to be non-low-tech, the following examples came to our attention:
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
232
Most of my work nowadays involves classes in which the computer attached to a
data projector is the main technology; many of them use PowerPoint as the basic tool
to introduce the points of the class, supported by sound (MP3, CD or occasionally,
cassettes). (Czech Republic)
Book, blackboard, whiteboard, CD-ROM, DVD, Webcast, Stand-alone PC
(mostly teacher centric activities and transmission mode-explanation/illustration/
reinforcement. Recalling data, making students react, understanding meaning –
written and oral. (Brazil)
New vocabulary written on whiteboard; use of DVDs and YouTube to introduce
new structures/vocabulary and to practise listening comprehension; OHP and
PowerPoint for introduction/repetition of new material and exercises/answers.
(New Zealand)
The students access the materials via Moodle either in the PC lab or in their own
computer. I usually communicate with them via email for anything related to
class-work. The whiteboard is only used when I can’t explain a concept using MS
PowerPoint. (Indonesia)
I use PPT, email, videos, blogs and DVDs for the adults. I have used blogs and
DVDs for the pupils but to a much lesser degree, mainly because of the limited
possibilities (room, three computers at my disposal, large classes). (Switzerland)
I take my ofﬁce laptop to class and use it for many purposes. I use it for listening
activities, for showing resources from the net and for modeling some activities.
(Turkey)
Data show: To display images, photos for clariﬁcations or for presentations
Email: to exchange info and circulars + to communicate with parents and admin.
(UAE)
Considering the factors found in the survey, these descriptions would best suit a
low-tech environment given that they appear to have similar physical constraints.
However, this is because we have placed them in this category due to the types
of devices they use and not by how they are used. This raises the question of the
characteristics that deﬁne a low-tech environment in CALL. Considering the two major
factors of physical and human constraints, we can now list the basic features needed
in a low-tech setting in a language classroom.
The results of the analysis to the two sources of information point to low-tech
environments as those in which there are:
physical constraints with regard to:
l
the number of computers per student;
m
insufﬁcient and inadequate internet access which would allow for the
m
productive use of language learning resources on the Web;
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 233
lack of interest on the part of the administration for the use of technology
m
in learning.
human constraints in the form of:
l
untrained teachers and those unwilling to incorporate ICT in their praxis;
m
students who are reluctant to use technology in their language learning.
m
In this way, for example, a classroom in which students have computers and adequate
access to internet, but where the teachers do not maximize the use of the online
resources available and stick to their comfort zone, would be considered a low-tech
environment. This brings us back to the deﬁnition of technology given by UNESCO
(1985) in which the ‘know-how’ and ‘creative process’ play very important roles. So,
how the resources are used is as important, if not more important than the tool,
system or resource itself.
How to use CALL in low-tech contexts
Egbert and Yang (2004) point out the advantages of studying and teaching in a
low-tech environment.They include the fact that students can learn a few technologies
well and use these to support the development of their metacognitive skills and
can concentrate on their tasks and interaction with other learners without the
distraction of the ‘bells and whistles’ (p. 283). Teachers can also beneﬁt from this
environment because ‘more emphasis can be placed on the use of the technology
than on its functions’ (p. 283). These authors propose a framework based on the
eight conditions needed for language learning (Egbert & Hanson-Smith, 1999) which
include opportunities for social interaction and negotiation of meaning, varied input
and involvement with authentic tasks and with authentic audiences.These conditions,
necessary for language learning, should be incorporated into CALL and do not depend
on the level of technology available in the classroom. Teachers should devise a class
plan based on clear learning objectives, the needs and strengths of their students,
both linguistically and cognitively, and develop activities that would promote authentic
interaction through the discovery and use of the language. Once this has been done,
the appropriate technological tools from those available can be used to facilitate the
learning process.
Strategies to use in low-tech contexts with physical restraints
With this in mind, let us now look at the way in which teachers in low-technology
settings can use the resources available on the internet to maximize learning in
classrooms with physical and human restraints. Table 12.3 shows the resources used
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
234
by teachers for introducing new topics or vocabulary, explaining or reviewing grammar,
for presentations and testing. However, below are more comprehensive examples,
some taken from teachers who have used them successfully in their classrooms,
where students play a more active role. Teachers can:
Use downloadable interactive exercise generators (e.g., Hot potatoes) which
l
can be used to create a number of different exercises ofﬂine. Other free
software providers allow activities to be created on external memory (CDs,
DVDs or memory stick).
These exercises can then be shown to the students and different group
m
games can be played.These games will encourage student co-operation
and collaboration.
Send and reply to videos using email (e.g., Eyejot)
l
Invite students to practise and then use the language by sending audio
m
and video emails to other students.
Show students how to use free downloadable audio-editing programs
m
(e.g., Audacity) and encourage them to be used for recording activities
such as interviews, radio programmes, and storytelling or advertising
slots. These recordings can then be collected and burnt to a CD or DVD
for students.
Encourage students to make videos with their mobile phones or cameras
m
and show these on the PC. These can be individual or project based.
Create a blog and send entries via email (e.g., Posterous).
l
Have students work in small groups, discuss the information and write
m
what they would like to post to the blog. Have them take turns at posting,
during the term.
Have students work in small groups or pairs creating a text which they
m
will later record using the available tools (MP3 player, mobile phone or
computer microphone) and then post to a blog.
Invite other students and teachers to visit the class blog and post their
m
comments.
Encourage students to work on blogs at home through the creation
m
of interesting extra-curricular activities based on students’ age and
interests.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 235
Download videos and podcasts with topics of interest and authentic language
l
use and then create activities for students. These videos and podcasts can
be obtained from a number of online sites, either dedicated to foreign
language learning or authentic sources of the language (news, museums,
speciﬁc professional areas, like nursing, architecture or engineering or social
sites like YouTube).
The information from these videos and audios can be used as input for
m
discussion, or writing (using downloadable dictionaries like Wordweb),
and a number of activities for listening comprehension, vocabulary
building, dictations and cultural awareness among others.
Create after school programmes, for example language clubs, where
l
students can use the computers to do research and project-based activities
and communicate with other language learners and teachers both locally
and internationally.
These activities involve students’ active involvement with the language through
interaction with text, audio, video and their peers. In this way, they are using the
language communicatively, for personal use which increases motivation and helps
foster learning. These activities can be done ofﬂine thereby giving students multiple
exposure to both input and output.
Strategies to use in low-tech contexts with
human restraints
Although the majority of the respondents to the survey reported physical constraints
as the main obstacle to the implementation of CALL in low-technology environments,
several teachers stressed the human constraints as well. Lack of teacher training and/
or peer scaffolding, insufﬁcient practice in the use of online resources and fear of using
new tools and ﬁnding a new methodology to ﬁt with the changes in language learning
are some of the factors which might inhibit teachers and prevent them from using, or
making the most of these resources.
Researchers such as Harris, Mishra and Koehler (2009), Guerrero (2005), Kelly
(2008), Mishra and Koehler (2006) and Koehler and Mishra (2009), propose a
framework for teacher development in technology in which knowledge of content,
technology and pedagogy are integrated to optimize learning and argue that
teachers should master each of these areas. In the case of language learning, this
would mean that teachers should know about the theories of second language
acquisition and language learning to know how to teach the content and then use
their knowledge of the technology to design activities to mediate between the
two.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
236
The following are some suggestions that might help teachers to overcome these
obstacles and become better practitioners in the use of ICT in language learning and
teaching:
More experienced teachers can volunteer to help those with less experience
l
in the use of ICT in education. Teachers can hold informal meetings with
colleagues, who have more expertise in the implementation of CALL in their
context to express their doubts, ask for advice and receive scaffolding.
Teachers can join free existing online communities or even begin their own
l
local or national group with other interested teachers. In this way they
can share experiences, describe challenges and ask for suggestions for
overcoming them.
Special Interest Groups of worldwide English teachers associations are
l
another source of professional development that can enrich teachers new
to teaching with technology.
Self-access professional development sites (blogs, wikis, webcasts) are
l
other sources of contact and knowledge sharing.
Online communities, Special Interest Groups and professional development
l
sites are sources which can enrich teachers by providing them with support
and keeping them abreast of new developments with regard to both tools
and teaching techniques. It is essential for teachers who work in low-tech
environments to share their knowledge and expertise with those who might
need it.
Another point raised by the respondents to the survey dealt with students’ response to
the use of CALL in their language classes. Students appeared to be either unmotivated
or to consider technology as only for entertainment or for personal use. Here are some
suggestions which might encourage students to take an interest in the use of ICT
resources in language learning:
Propose activities to be done at home.This is recommended when there are
l
limited or no ITC resources in the classroom. It is important that the topics
for these activities be based on learner needs and interests and not on the
ofﬁcial curriculum.
Create wikis and blogs for learners to post their work.
l
Design authentic tasks which will require students to be creative with their
l
use of both the language and the technological resources.
Encourage healthy competition between and among students through
l
meaningful projects that reﬂect the culture of the country and the students’
interests.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 237
Encourage peers and other target language speakers to visit the students’
l
blogs and wikis and leave comments or to act as judges.
These types of activities will motivate students as they will help them to see the need
to use the technological resource as a medium for authentic communication in the
target language.
Learners of English as a second language (ESL) are exposed to more target language
input when they interact with the society in which they live. This, however, is not
possible for learners of English as a foreign language (EFL) who must ﬁnd and exploit
all the opportunities available for exposure to, and interaction with, the language. To
this end, the role of CALL and ICT in EFL is essential and Web 2.0 resources can be
used in an attempt to bridge this gap. For those who work and live in environments in
which physical and human constraints might pose a challenge, it is important that viable
solutions be found. These include downloading resources from the Web which can
be used in computers without the need for an internet connection or using software
programs which can be downloaded to a computer’s hard drive to generate activities
which also do not need an internet connection.
Conclusions
Today’s ‘high-tech’ devices are continually being replaced by newer and more
innovative ones. From the printing press, to radio and TV, to electronic devices, new
developments in science have taken us from print, to audio, to moving images and
ﬁnally to interconnectivity. All of these have been used, and will continue to be used,
in language teaching. But, these are just tools, media to connect with others. What is
important is the ‘know-how’, the way in which these tools are used. In this way, it is
perhaps the human constraints that are more important than the physical obstacles
when we look at the implications of the digital divide in language learning. In this sense,
many teachers in low-tech settings understand the importance of the integration of
ICT, which is the hardware and online resources, in language learning. Nevertheless,
most still do not know how to achieve this, especially when it comes to promoting
interaction and communication for meaningful purposes.
There is, however, a widespread interest in professional development right now as
can be seen in the growing number of participants who view presentations on the use
of technology in language learning, webinars from international professional teaching
associations and commercial publication houses, as well as interest in online Special
Interest Groups (SIGs) (e.g.,TESOL and IATEFL).To sum up, while teaching languages
with the use of technology in a low-tech environment can sometimes be discouraging
for practitioners, as the respondents to the survey used for this chapter, as well as the
wider literature have shown (Fawzi, 2010; Marandi, 2010;Yildez &Tatar, 2010), there are
many ways in which these obstacles can be overcome.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
238
References
Bates, A. W. (2005). Technology, e-learning and distance education. London: Routledge.
Bonfadelli, H. (2002). The internet and knowledge gaps: A theoretical and empirical
investigation. European Journal of Communication, 17(1), 65–84.
Bonk, C. J., Ehman, L., Hixon, E., & Yamagata-Lynch, L. (2002). The pedagogical TICKIT:
Teacher institute for curriculum knowledge about the integration of technology. Journal
of Technology and Teacher Education, 10(2), 205–33.
Borau, K., Ullrich, C., Feng, J., & Shen, R. (2009). Microblogging for language learning:
Using Twitter to train communicative and cultural competence. Advances in Web Based
Learning, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 5686, 78–87
.
Chapelle, C. (2001). Computer applications in second language acquisition: Foundations
for teaching, testing and research. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chen, H. T. (2007). Sharing, connection, and creation in the Web 2.0 era: Proﬁling
the adopters of video-sharing and social-networking sites. Paper presented at the
Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication, Washington DC.
Correa, T. (2008). Literature review: Understanding the ‘second-level digital divide’.
Unpublished manuscript prepared for the class Mass Communication Theory I. School
of Journalism. UT-Austin.
Dalha, L. (2010). Unmet promises, outmoded models and inadequate support in Nigeria.
In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited technology contexts (pp. 167–77). Texas: CALICO.
Duffy, P
. (2007). Engaging the YouTube Google-eyed generation: Strategies for using Web
2.0 in teaching and learning. In D. Remenyi (Ed.), Proceedings of the 6th European
Conference on E-Learning. Academic Conferences Limited, Reading, UK.
Egbert, J., & Brander, B. (2010). A framework for situated online language teacher
education: Learning to engage diverse students through culturally responsive CALL.
In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited technology contexts (pp. 135–44). Texas: CALICO.
Egbert, J., & Yang, Y. F
. (2004). Mediating the digital divide in CALL classrooms: Promoting
effective language tasks in limited technology contexts. ReCALL, 16, 280–91.
Evans, M. (Ed.) (2009). Foreign language learning with digital technology. London:
Continuum.
Eyring, J. (2001). Technology with a human touch: Reaching ESL students in their own
communities through interactive television. In L. Henrichsen (Ed.), Distance-learning
programs (pp. 13–25). Alexandria, VA: TESOL, Inc.
Fawzi, Hala. (2010). Bleeding edge challenges in Sudan: Limits on using CALL in EFL
classrooms at the tertiary level. In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited technology contexts
(pp. 189–200). Texas: CALICO.
Fong, M. (2009). Digital divide: The case of developing countries. Issues in informing
science and information technologies (Vol. 6). Retrieved from http://iisit.org/Vol6/
IISITv6p471–478Fong597
.pdf
Fox. S., & Madden, S. (2005).Generations online. Washington, DC: Pew Internet and
American Life Project.
Godwin-Jones, R. (2003). Emerging technologies: Blogs and wikis environments for online
collaboration. Language, Learning and Technology, 7(2), 12–16.
González, D. (2004). Bringing colleagues into Web-based learning and teaching. TESOL
Essential Teacher, 1(4), 24–8.
González, D., & Almeida d’Eca, T. (2006). Becoming a Webhead: Bridging the gap from
classroom to blended or online teaching. CALICO Journal, 2(3), 569–80.
González, D., & St. Louis, R. (2008). The use of Web 2.0 tools to promote learner
autonomy. Independence, 43, 28–32.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 239
González, D., Palomeque, C., & Sweeney, P
. (2011). Teaching Spanish in Second Life. In
M. Thomas (Ed.), Digital education: Opportunities for social collaboration (pp. 143–66).
London & New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Guerrero, S. (2005). Teacher knowledge and a new domain of expertise: Pedagogical
technology knowledge. Journal of Educational Computing Research, 33(3), 249–67
.
Gulati, D. V. (1981). Computer education and the needs for developing countries. In R.
Lewis & D. Tagg (Eds.), Computer in education (pp. 551–5). Amsterdam, North Holland
Publishing Company.
Hanson-Smith, E. (2001). The role of technological environments in language education.
In E. Hanson-Smith (Ed.), Technology-enhanced learning environments (pp. 1–6).
Alexandria, VA: TESOL Inc.
Hargittai, E., & Walejko, G. (2008). The participation divide: Content creation and sharing in
the digital divide age. Information, Communication & Society, 11(2), 239–56.
Harris, J., Mishra, P
., & Koehler, M. J. (2009). Teachers’ technological pedagogical content
knowledge and learning activity types: Curriculum-based technology integration
reframed. Journal of Research on Technology in Education, 41(4), 393–416.
Harrison, R., & Thomas, M. (2009). Identity in online communities: Social networking sites
and language learning. International Journal of Emerging Technologies & Society, 7(2),
109–24.
Hvorecky, J., (2004). ‘Can e-learning break the digital divide?’ European Journal of Open,
Distance and E-learning, 2. Retrieved from www.eurodl.org/materials/contrib/2004/
Hvorecky.htm
Jauregi, K., Canto, S. de Graaff, R., Koenraad, T., & Moonen, M. (2011). Verbal interaction
in Second Life: Towards a pedagogic framework for task design. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 24(1), 77–101.
Kam, M., Ramachandran, D., Devanathan, V., Tewari, A., & Canny, J. (2007). Localized
iterative design for language learning in underdeveloped regions: The PACE framework.
Proceedings. Designing for Speciﬁc Cultures. 28 April 28–3 May. San Jose, CA, USA.
Kaur Khalsa, D., Maloney-Krichmar, D., & Kreeft Peyton, J. (2007). Theory and research:
Interaction via computers issue. In J. Egbert & E. Hanson-Smith (Eds.), Call
environments research practice and critical issues (pp. 19–31). Alexandria, VA: Teachers
of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) Inc.
Kelly, M. A. (2008). Bridging digital and cultural divides. In American Association of
Colleges for Teachers (Ed.), Handbook of technological pedagogical content knowledge
(TPCK) for educators (pp. 31–9). New York, NY: Routledge.
Koehler, M. J., & Mishra, P
. (2009). What is technological pedagogical content knowledge?
Contemporary Issues in Technology and Teacher Education, 9(1). Retrieved from www.
citejournal.org/vol9/iss1/general/article1.cfm
Madden, M. (2003). America’s online pursuits. Washington, DC: Pew Internet & American
Life Project.
Marandi, S. (2010). Bravely stepping forward: Creating CALL communities to support
teachers and learners in Iran. In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited technology contexts
(pp. 179–88). Texas: CALICO.
Marshall, G. (2009). From China to the UK: Net censorship worldwide.
Retrieved from www.techradar.com/news/internet/from-china-to-the-uk-
net-censorship-worldwide-622428
Martinez-Carrillo, C., & Pentikousis, K. (2008). An application of wikis for mediated
collaborative learning to Spanish L2. In Proceedings of the international conference on
internet and multimedia systems and applications (EuroIMSA) (pp. 39–44). Innsbruck,
Austria.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
240
McLoughlin, C., & Lee, M. J. W. (2007). Listen and learn: A systematic review of the
evidence that podcasting supports learning in higher education. In C. Montgomerie
& J. Seale (Eds.), Proceedings of world conference on educational multimedia,
hypermedia and telecommunications (pp. 1669–77). Chesapeake, VA: AACE.
Mishra, P
., & Koehler, M. J. (2006). Technological pedagogical content knowledge: A new
framework for teacher knowledge. Teachers College Record, 108(6), 1017–54.
Motteran, G., & Sharma, P
. (2009). Blending learning in a Web 2.0 world. International
Journal of Emerging Technologies & Society, 7(2), 83–96.
Moura, A., & Carvalho, A. (2009). Mobile learning: Two experiments on teaching and
learning with mobile phones. In R. Hijón-Neira (Ed.), Advanced learning (pp. 89–103).
Vukovar, Croatia: In-Tah. Mobile and immersive learning for literacy in emerging
economies (MILLEE) (2004–11). Retrieved from www.cs.cmu.edu/~mattkam/lab/
millee.html
Ngeow, K (2010). Restricted internet access and censorship: CALL alternatives and
initiatives. In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited technology contexts (pp. 93–105). Texas:
CALICO.
O’Reilly, T. (2005). Design patterns and business models for the next generation software.
Retrieved from http://oreilly.com/web2/archive/what-is-web-20.html
Parliamentary Ofﬁce of Science and Technology Post note (2006). ICT in developing
countries, 261, March. Retrieved from www.parliament.uk/documents/post/postpn261.
pdf
Peachey, N. (2009). Web 2.0 tools for teachers. Retrieved from www.scribd.com/
doc/19576895/Web-20-Tools-for-Teachers
Pentikousis, K., & Martinez-Carrillo, C. (2008). Mediated collaborative learning. In ERCIM
News, 75, 60–1.
Peter, J., & Valkenburg, P
. M. (2006). Adolescents internet use: Testing the ‘Disappearing
digital divide’ versus the ‘Emerging digital differentiation’ approach. Poetics, 34(4–5),
293–305.
Peterson, M. (2010). Massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs) as
arenas for second language learning. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 23(5),
429–39.
Projet ABC / IMAC. (2009). Retrieved from http://mobileactive.org/using-mobiles-rural-litera
cy-and-market-information-niger-projet-abc-imac
Raith, T. (2009). The use of Weblogs in language education. In M. Thomas (Ed.), Handbook
of research on Web 2.0 and second language learning. Hershey, PA: Information
Science Reference.
Rankin, Y., Gold, R., & Gooch, B. (2006). 3D role playing games as language learning tools.
Retrieved from http://webhome.cs.uvic.ca/~bgooch/Publications/PDFs/Rankin_Gold_
Gooch.pdf
Reske, S. (2005). Using radio scripts in English language learning. Proceedings of the
CATESOL State Conference, 2005. Rocklin, CA: Sierra College.
Stanley, G., & Mawer, K. (2008). Language learners and computer games: From Space
Invaders to Second Life. TESL
-EJ, 11(4), 1–12.
Stevens, V. (2010). Shifting sands, shifting paradigms: Challenges to developing 21st
century learning skills in the United Arab Emirates. In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited
technology contexts (pp. 227–39), Texas: CALICO.
Sweeney, P
., Palomeque, C., & González, D. (2010). Task design for language learning in an
embodied environment. In V. Giovanni & B. James (Eds.), Teaching through multiuser
virtual environments: Applying dynamic elements to the modern classroom
(pp. 259–82). Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
CALL IN LOW-TECH CONTEXTS 241
Sykes, J. M., Oskoz, A., & Thorne, S. L. (2008). Web 2.0, synthetic immersive
environments and mobile resources for language education, CALICO Journal, 25(3),
528–56.
Tamela, R., Scolari, J., & Bedient, D. (2000). Too few computers and too many kids.
Learning and Leading with Technology, 27(7), 50–3.
Thomas, M. (Ed.) (2009). Handbook of research on Web 2.0 and second language learning.
Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
Thorne, S. L., & Payne, S. (2005). Evolutionary trajectories, internet-mediated expression
and language education. CALICO Journal, 22(3), 171–97
.
UNESCO (1985). Deﬁnition of technology. Retrieved from www.pa.ash.org.au/tefa/wite.
html
Valdivia, I. J. (2008). Las políticas de tecnología para escuelas en América Latina y
el mundo: visiones y lecciones. Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean. Retrieved from www.eclac.org/ddpe/publicaciones/xml/8/34938/W214.pdf
Van Dijk, J. (2005). The deepening divide inequality in the information society. Thousand
Oaks: Sage.
Venezky, R. (2000). The digital divide within formal school education: Causes and
consequences in learning to bridge the Digital Divide. OECD Publishing.
Warschauer, M. (1996). Computer-assisted language learning: An introduction. In S. Fotos
(Ed.), Multimedia language teaching (pp. 3–20). Tokyo: Logos International.
— (2001). On-line learning in second language classrooms. An ethnography study. In
M. Warschauer & R. Kern (Eds.), Network-based language teaching: Conceps and
practice (pp. 41–58). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2003). Technology and social inclusion: Rethinking the digital divide. Cambridge: MIT
Press.
— (2004). Of digital divides and social multipliers: Combining language and technology
for human development. Information and communication technologies in the teaching
and learning of foreign languages: State of the art, needs and perspectives (pp. 46–52).
Moscow: UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education.
Warschauer, M., & Healey, D. (1998). Computers and language learning: An overview.
Language Teaching, 31, 57–71.
Yildiz, S., & Tatar, S. (2010). Overcoming limited planning and vision in Turkish schools.
In J. Egbert (Ed.), CALL in limited technology contexts (pp. 201–13). Texas: CALICO.
Yoza Project (2009–10). Retrieved from http://yozaproject.com/about-the-project/
PART THREE
CALL in language
education
Section introduction
Michael Thomas, Hayo Reinders
and Mark Warschauer
The diversity of CALL has led to a growing number of specialized areas of teaching
and research. These areas include intelligent computer-assisted language learning
(ICALL) (Heift & Schulze, 2007); technology-enhanced reading and writing environments
(Abraham, 2008; Chen & Cheng, 2008; Kol & Schcolnik, 2008); less commonly taught
languages (LTCTs) (Davidson, 2010); the use of technology to enhance learner feedback
(Ware & Warschauer, 2006); task-based language teaching (TBLT) (Thomas & Reinders,
2010); and self-directed learning and learner autonomy (Reinders & White, 2011). While
many of these areas were only partially in evidence 20 to 30 years ago, the intervening
period has seen a signiﬁcant growth in their research and application. In the ﬁnal
section, we provide a discussion of these areas of research and note how they have
each developed sophisticated approaches to the study of foreign language learning and
a signiﬁcant body of empirical research and scholarship.
In Chapter 13, Schulze and Heift discuss developments in intelligent
computer-assisted language learning, providing a historically informed analysis of the
last decade in particular, highlighting the importance of ICALL resources for both the
language learning classroom and language researcher. Throughout their discussion of
the former connections between second language acquisition theory are made with
ICALL especially in relation to noticing and interaction in second language learning.
Examples of ICALL are provided which incorporate a range of activities from vocabulary
acquistion to grammar development, as well as comphrension skills in relation to
reading and writing in the second language classroom. Moreover, the use of ICALL
applications in relation to corpora for learners and reference purposes are identiﬁed
and the future of ICALL research is considered based on recent developments in new
intelligent and interactive technologies.
Developing from ICALL, the subject of Park, Zheng, Lawrence and Warschauer’s
chapter is the use of new technologies to enhance and support reading environments
for learners of English. Carefully identifying the factors necessary to understand
and read in English, the chapter discusses the signiﬁcance of skills related to word
decoding, reading comprehension, as well as interpretation and summarizing skills
and the way technology can be used to augment learners’ engagement with each of
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
246
these components. Having established this context, the chapter pursues two concrete
examples utilizing digital media to aid visual-syntactic text formatting (VSTF). VSTF is
concerned with the presentation of reading text which attempts to overcome barriers
learners have in relation to syntactic knowledge. In the second example, strategies for
using blogs (or Weblogs) to support a collaborative and supportive approach to learning
are discussed. A study utilizing mixed methods is explored in which blogs are advanced
as tools to aid communication, interpretation and cognitive reading skills. The chapter
makes a signiﬁcant contribution to current research on the topic and discusses a future
agenda for research on reading and technology-enhanced environments as we move
forward with developments in tablet and mobile devices.
Having addressed technology-enhanced reading, Chapter 15 turns to consider
the role of technology in teaching and researching writing with language learners.
Hegelheimer and Lee describe the transition from approaches based on grammatical
accuracy and form to process-oriented strategies in which students develop skill sets
related to ‘organization, development and expression’. The process approach uses
technology to develop writing strategies for language learners in which they engage
in multiple drafts or iterations in the development of their work, and receive formative
feedback from instructors and/or peers. The chapter draws on recent research studies
to provide a map of scholarship in the ﬁeld of technology-assisted writing instruction,
engaging with automated essay evaluation technologies as well as the potential of
collaborative writing applications such as Google Docs.
While most discussions in the volume have focused on the dominance of research
on the use of CALL with English language learning, Chapter 16 incorporates important
research on CALL in less commonly taught languages (LCTLs) from both the learner
and instructor perspective. The main focus is the use of Web-based resources and
technologies and those languages such as Russian, Chinese and Japanese which
while marginal are still taught in college curricula particularly in the United States. A
number of issues in the context of Web 2.0 are highlighted, including copyright and
debates surrounding the use of non-Roman scripts in computer applications for these
languages.
Running throughout the chapters in this section is the underlining importance of
new technologies to aid and enhance learner feedback. Chapter 17 confronts this
important subﬁeld by offering an extended discussion and overview of CALL and digital
feedback. Ware and Kessler discuss the different ways that digital feedback has been
deﬁned, covering a number of areas including individual tutorial approaches focused
on discrete language skills or pronunciation, to the use of computers as a medium
for feedback utilizing synchronous and asynchronous forms of communication. The
chapter discusses these developments and offers a comphrehensive overview of
the ﬁeld encompassing the ways that digital feedback has been used in particular to
enhance learner-instructor communication in the productive language skills of writing
and speaking.
At the same time as CALL has developed over the last three decades, task-based
approaches which emphasize the importance of authentic learning environments in
SECTION INTRODUCTION 247
which meaning rather than form-based instruction is the primary purpose of instruction
have become one of the most important developments in foreign language education.
Chapter 18 examines the relationship between task-based approaches and CALL,
noting that while they have often been separated, they each have a good deal in
common. This chapter provides a historical overview of this relationship, discussing
the main research areas that have been evident during this period. A case study of a
task-based language learning approach utilizing CALL in Asia is introduced to illustrate
developments in the ﬁeld and to outline a future research agenda.
In the ﬁnal chapter a number of the themes developed in the previous chapters are
brought together in the discussion of technologies that have been used to develop
and support learner autonomy. Reinders and Hubbard discuss how the role and
responsibilities given to learners has developed and how research on learner autonomy
has been engaged in attempting to understand learners’ active contributions to the
learning process (Breen, 2001). Autonomous, self-directed and informal language
learning as the name implies largely occurs in environments removed from traditional
educational spaces. While autonomous learning like technology often has signiﬁcant
potential to aid the language learning process, it needs to be targeted via precise
strategies and often overcome any technical barriers that learners may have. The ﬁnal
chapter in the volume outlines a detailed overview of research in the ﬁeld, the role of
technology within it and identiﬁes ways in which the ‘potentially symbiotic relationship’
of learner autonomy and CALL can produce mutually beneﬁcial relationships.
References
Abraham, L. B. (2008). Computer-mediated glosses in second language reading
comprehension and vocabulary learning: A meta-analysis. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 21(3), 199–226.
Breen, M. (2001). Learner contributions to language learning. New directions in research.
Harlow: Longman.
Chen, C. E., & Cheng, W. E. (2008). Beyond the design of automated writing evaluation:
Pedagogical practices and perceived learning effectiveness in EFL writing classes.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(2), 94–112.
Davidson, D. (2010). Study abroad: When, how long, and with what results? New data
from the Russian front. Foreign Language Annals, 43(1), 6–26.
Heift, T., & Schulze, M. (2007). Errors and intelligence in CALL: Parsers and pedagogues.
New York: Routledge.
Kol, S., & Schcolnik, M. (2008). Asynchronous forums in EAP: Assessment issues.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(2), 49–70.
Reinders, H., & White, C. (2011). Learner autonomy and new learning environments.
Language Learning & Technology, 15(3), 1–3.
Thomas, M., & Reinders, M. (2010). Task-based language learning and teaching with
technology. London & New York: Continuum.
Ware, P
., & Warschauer, M. (2006). Electronic feedback and second language writing.
In K. Hyland & F
. Hyland (Eds.), Feedback on ESL writing: Context and issues
(pp. 105–22). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
13
Intelligent CALL
Mathias Schulze and Trude Heift
Summary
This chapter provides a historical overview of ICALL over the last decade by focusing
on two key areas: resources for the language learning classroom and resources
for the researcher. With respect to resources for the language learning classroom, we
discuss and link ICALL developments to contemporary theories in Second Language
Acquisition (SLA) by focusing on the importance of interaction and noticing (Gass,
1997; Long, 1996; Schmidt 1990, 1994). The ICALL projects described support a wide
range of language learning activities in vocabulary and grammar acquisition, writing
and reading comprehension. With regards to resources for researchers, we focus
on learner and reference corpora. The chapter concludes with a discussion of new
directions in ICALL research.
What is ICALL?
Intelligent Computer Assisted Language Learning (ICALL) is a ﬁeld within CALL that
applies concepts, techniques, algorithms and technologies from artiﬁcial intelligence
to CALL (Gamper & Knapp, 2002; Heift & Schulze, 2007; Nerbonne, 2003; Schulze,
2008a). Artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) describes the science and engineering of making
intelligent machines (McCarthy, 2007).This includes work in robotics, intelligent agents
and computer vision. Most relevant to CALL is research in four branches of artiﬁcial
intelligence: (1) natural language processing, (2) user modelling, (3) expert systems
and (4) intelligent tutoring systems.
Natural language processing deals with both natural language understanding and
natural language generation. In natural language understanding, written or spoken
language input is turned into a formal representation that captures phonological/
graphological, grammatical, semantic and pragmatic features of the input. For example,
when a written sentence is submitted to a natural language understanding system,
frequently to a parser, then the output likely consists of a syntactic tree that describes
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
250
the grammatical structure of this sentence including speciﬁcations of immediate
dominance (phrase structure) and linear precedence (word order). In contrast, in natural
language generation, a formal representation of an information structure, commonly
stored in a database, is turned into natural written and/or spoken language output.
For instance, given the relevant syntactic, semantic and pragmatic rules of certain
utterance types and a lexicon, the information from a database on a city’s geography
can then be provided in adequate prose (e.g., ‘Berlin is located in eastern Germany).
Within natural language processing, software that turns spoken utterances into written
text is subsumed under speech recognition or speech-to-text systems; the reverse
process is called speech synthesis or text-to-speech (Jurafsky & Martin, 2000).
Another branch of AI relevant to CALL is user modelling. It can also be described
as a sub-area of human-computer interaction (HCI) research because it strives to
adapt computational systems to their users. Of the different research domains in user
modelling, student modelling is, of course, of particular relevance to CALL. A student
model observes the student’s actions, maintains a data structure with this information
and infers beliefs about the student’s knowledge and abilities based on these data
(Self, 1994).
Expert systems capture relevant knowledge about a particular (learning) domain.
Most ICALL applications therefore contain information about the grammatical
system of the target language (a parser grammar). The expert’s system is the
module that enables the program to process the student input and turn it into a
formal representation that contains detailed information about its form (phonological/
graphological, morphological, syntactic features) and meaning (semantic, discoursal,
pragmatic features). This representation can then be used to maintain a more detailed
record of the learner’s grammatical knowledge including both correct forms as well
as misconceptions. Other ICALL applications use the expert system to communicate
knowledge about linguistic structures to the student upon request (Zock, 1988, 1992;
Zock, Sabah & Alviset, 1986).
Both the student model and the expert model are essential modules of intelligent
tutoring systems (ITSs), another branch of AI. These systems are tutors in the context
of Levy’s (2009) tutor-tool distinction in CALL. ITSs are used in the teaching of various
subject matters, domains and instructional settings. Intelligent Language Tutoring
Systems (ILTSs) have been developed for the past 30 years for a wide range of ﬁrst,
second and additional languages as well as different proﬁciency levels (Heift & Schulze,
2007). For instance, Robo-Sensei is a commercial ILTS for Japanese for all proﬁciency
levels (Nagata, 2009); Tagarela teaches beginner learners of Portuguese (Amaral,
2007; Amaral & Meurers, 2007) and The E-Tutor is a comprehensive language learning
environment for all proﬁciency levels of German (Heift, 2010b).
In the following, we focus on the main contributions and progress that ICALL has
made over the past decade. First, we discuss resources for the language classroom
by linking them to some of the contemporary theories of second language acquisition
(SLA), more speciﬁcally, to the importance of interaction and noticing. Second, we
discuss resources for researchers by focusing on learner and reference corpora. Our
conclusion provides a discussion of new directions in ICALL research.
INTELLIGENT CALL 251
ICALL resources for the language learning classroom
ICALL is a young, but highly interdisciplinary ﬁeld of research that draws on a number
of disciplines in applied linguistics and computing (see Levy, 1997
, p. 49). The article
by Weischedel, Voge and James (1978) is commonly cited as the ﬁrst publication that
reports on an ICALL system the authors developed for L2 German. Since then, two
printed ICALL bibliographies (Bailin, 1995; Matthews, 1992b) in addition to a more
up-to-date set of bibliographies which can be found at the Integrated Digital Language
Learning website (www.noe-kaleidoscope.org/group/idill/) have been published.
More recently, the monograph by Heift and Schulze (2007) provides a comprehensive
overview of the main concepts and research questions in the ﬁeld. For instance, the
authors surveyed the ICALL literature and identiﬁed 119 ICALL projects that were
documented in English and German publications between 1978 and 2004/5. Shorter
overviews of ICALL can be found in Nerbonne (2003), Matthews (1992a, 1993) and
Gamper and Knapp (2002). A number of edited volumes contain collections of articles
on different projects in ICALL. Of particular importance in this respect are two books
(Holland, Kaplan & Sams, 1995; Swartz &Yazdani, 1992) because they provide a useful
snapshot of important research and development at the time. Other collections of
articles appeared in special issues of journals on CALL (Bailin, 1991; Bailin & Levin,
1989; Chanier, 1994; Heift & Schulze, 2003; Meurers, 2009; Schulze, 2008c; Schulze,
Hamel & Thompson, 1999; Tokuda, Heift & Chen, 2002). Beginning in 2000, both
EuroCALL (2000, 2001, 2002, 2004) and CALICO (2006, 2007
, 2008, 2009, 2010)
provided one-day pre-conference workshops with a series of paper presentations on
various aspects of ICALL which were organized on behalf of the special interest groups
of Natural Language Processing and ICALL, respectively. As is common in Computer
Science and in Computational Linguistics, collections of refereed papers appeared in
proceedings volumes (e.g., Maritxalar, Ezeiza & Schulze, 2007; Thompson & Zähner,
1992). More recently, the annual conferences of the Association for Computational
Linguistics included workshops on the building of educational applications whose
refereed papers are available through the ACL Anthology (ACL, 2011).The contributions
of ICALL research to Applied Linguistics were discussed at a symposium during the
world congress AILA 2008 (Schulze, 2008b) and at an invited panel at the American
Applied Linguistics Conference in 2009 (Heift, 2010a). However, it is not only at such
conferences that the link between SLA and ICALL is apparent.
ICALL and the importance of interaction
Warschauer and Healey (1998) argued that two issues would become important for
the future of CALL: electronic literacies and intelligent CALL. They discuss the latter
almost exclusively in the context of online writing and tutorial CALL, that is, CALL
in a more structured, operationalized instructional environment. Nevertheless, more
than ten years ago their outlook was rather sceptical: ‘we’ve still got a very long way
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
252
to go before CALL can be accurately called “intelligent” ’ (p. 67). A few years later,
however, Nerbonne (2003), in his chapter on NLP in CALL in the Oxford Handbook of
Computational Linguistics, argues that advances in NLP have much to contribute to
CALL. Especially in tutorial CALL (Hubbard & Bradin-Siskin, 2004), in which students
interact directly with the computer during language learning activities, ICALL has been
a major impetus (Schulze, 2008a).
Even in one of the early ICALL studies, Nagata (1996, 1998a) concludes from one
of her learner studies that only CALL programs that make use of the full potential of
the computer, mainly by providing immediate and informative feedback, will produce
higher learning results. Over many years, error detection and diagnosis resulting in
corrective feedback have been the main focus of research and development in ICALL
(Heift & Schulze, 2007). The main advantage of ILTSs over more traditional CALL
environments lies in the error-speciﬁc feedback that an ILTS can provide in response
to learner output. Traditional CALL programs are generally based on string matching
algorithms, that is, the student response is compared letter by letter against an answer
key. In contrast, and based on sophisticated NLP technologies, an ILTS identiﬁes and
interprets errors as well as correct constructions in learner input and then generates
appropriate, informative learner feedback. Over the past decades, research has sought
evidence that feedback in CALL makes a difference in language development, and more
speciﬁcally what kind of feedback makes a difference. Following Nagata’s (1996) study,
a number of publications on the value of informative feedback followed (e.g., Bowles,
2005; Heift, 2001, 2004, 2010c; Pujola, 2002; Rosa & Leow, 2004) and the results
generally support the claim that students beneﬁt from the more explicit feedback
because they subsequently perform better on particular target-language structures
and/or because students’ grammatical awareness is subsequently raised.
But language awareness not only results from ICALL applications that provide
feedback in the more traditional sense. Lewis (1997), for instance, claimed that some
familiarity with machine translation software would be beneﬁcial for modern language
students because it increases language awareness and their knowledge about the
language system. Moreover, and on a very practical level, ‘for a student graduating
with a culture-based modern language degree, familiarity with MT has proved to
be a point of interest for prospective employers’ (p. 271). Niño (2008) provides a
comprehensive overview of projects that investigated the use of machine translation
in second language learning. She concludes from her quasi-experimental study with
learners of Spanish that her ‘results advocate that for advanced students . . . the target
language MT post-editing was especially good for creating opportunities for producing
comprehensible and acceptable output and for raising language awareness through
error detection and correction’ (p. 44). Machine translation plays a role when it comes
to task designs that involve translation, text critiquing and commenting, language
awareness, error analysis and correction. It can facilitate language learning and increase
students’ awareness of and familiarity with modern language technologies such as
online translation engines, which many of them use anyway, but might not always do
so in the most appropriate way (Williams, 2006).
INTELLIGENT CALL 253
After more than 30 years of development and research (for a chronology of ICALL
systems,seeHeiftandSchulze,2007),ILTSsnowadaysarerarelylimitedtoform-focused
instruction but instead allow for more diverse learning environments. For instance,
Dickinson, Eom, Kang, Lee and Sachs (2008) designed an ILTS that is embedded in a
synchronous computer-mediated communication environment. The system provides
feedback on particle usage for ﬁrst-year L2 Korean learners during online chat. Harbusch,
Itsova, Koch and Kuhner (2008) designed a virtual writing environment for German
for elementary-school children, The Sentence Fairy, which deploys natural language
generation technology to evaluate and improve the grammatical well-formedness of
student output. Most other ICALL systems provide a combination of form-focused
and meaning-focused instruction. For instance, the activity types in the E-Tutor (Heift,
2010b) allow for grammar practice as well as reading comprehension and/or cultural
knowledge and also supports discovery learning in the form of exploration of learner
language. For this, user submissions over ﬁve years were compiled and from those
a common learner corpus was constructed that allows students to explore learner
language according to various parameters.Thus, learners can examine interlanguage or
task-speciﬁc phenomena and the beneﬁts in this respect have been well documented
(Granger, 2003a). Moreover, these large data sets also allow language instructors and/
or researchers to examine the design of language learning material in addition to a wide
range of additional research topics (e.g., use of help options, interlanguage studies).
Similarly, Robo-Sensei developed by Nagata (2009) for L2 learners of Japanese
analyses student input for selected exercises, performs an itemization (separating
tokensforlaterlinguisticanalysis)andamorphologicalanalysis,andparsesthesentential
input syntactically using a context-free grammar. Finally, Tagarela (Amaral & Meurers,
2011) an ICALL system for Portuguese is similar to the E-Tutor and Robo-Sensei, in
that it uses the metaphor of an electronic textbook.The system provides practice with
grammar and listening comprehension and students receive feedback on spelling,
morphological, syntactic and semantic errors. These three systems are used in the
regular L2 language classroom.
The ICALL examples mentioned above have already illustrated the fact that ICALL
systems offer a wide variety of interactions both tutorial, commonly associated with
ILTSs, and non-tutorial. The non-tutorial interactions fall into two broad categories:
dialogue systems and language tools.
In dialogue systems, the computer generally takes on the role of a conversation
partner. ICALL has always seen some interest in dialogue systems that engage
language learners in short linguistic interactions (Hamburger, 1994; Hamburger &
Hashim, 1992; Hamburger, Schoelles & Reeder, 1999; Hamburger, Tuﬁs & Hashim,
1993; Jehle, 1987; Underwood, 1982; Walker, Troﬁmovich, Cedergren & Gatbonton,
2011). Many systems make use of relatively limited NLP capabilities such as keyword
searches and shallow parsing. However, if the dialogue has a grammar focus, such as
the grammatically well-formed and pragmatically appropriate use of personal pronouns
in Māori, then deep syntactic processing might be necessary. The Te Kaitito dialogue
system (Vlugter, Knott, McDonald & Hall, 2009), for instance, uses an HPSG-based
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
254
grammar of Māori and the Linguistic Knowledge Building system as its parser. It
engages students in short dialogues that require them to include personal pronouns.
If the student uses a pronoun incorrectly, the system provides feedback in the form
of a metalinguistic dialogue sequence. The system was tested in the classroom and
the researchers suggest that the Te Kaitito system helps students achieve the same
results as human tutoring.
The dialog system FLUENT I (Hamburger & Hashim, 1992) asks students to move
objects in a bathroom per request. Hamburger and his team also developed an interface
for teachers to create exercises that utilize the natural language processing tools of
FLUENT-2, both written and spoken. The teacher can use the tutorial schema tool to
design interactive exercises, the language tool to inﬂuence the language generated by
FLUENT-2 and the drawing tool to manipulate the graphical microworlds (Schoelles &
Hamburger, 1996).
With respect to language tools, we ﬁnd grammar and spell checkers (Gamon et
al., 2009; L
’Haire, 2007; L
’Haire & Vandeventer Faltin, 2003; Rimrott & Heift, 2008)
morphological analysers (ten Hacken & Tschichold, 2001) as well as corpus look-up
tools that can be employed in many different interactional settings. In a number of
systems, students have contingent access to online dictionaries (Hamel, 2010;
Nerbonne & Dokter, 1999; Roosmaa & Prószéky, 1998), they can retrieve inﬂectional
paradigms of words that are generated on the ﬂy and displayed to the student (Dokter
& Nerbonne, 1998; Heift, 2006, 2010b; Wood, 2011), and/or can gain access to
contextualized examples in large text corpora and other online resources such as target
language versions of Wikipedia (Wood, 2011). In addition to using language technology
to augment language learning materials with additional lexical and morpho-syntactic
information the student can access, similar techniques from artiﬁcial intelligence can
be used to make linguistic features of a text more salient and to help students develop
their language awareness (e.g., Amaral, Metcalf & Meurers, 2006). For instance, ELDIT
(Knapp, 2004) is an electronic learner dictionary for German and Italian intended for
reading activities and vocabulary acquisition.The system supports a number of reading
tasks that aim to prepare students for bilingual proﬁciency examinations. More recently,
Wood (2011) developed QuickAssist that supports reading and vocabulary acquisition
for L2 learners of German through the automatic annotation and lemmatization of
texts selected by the students or their instructor. Students have one-click access to
an online dictionary in which the lemma of the word in context will be looked up.
Learners can also retrieve collocations of the word from a German corpus including a
morphological deconstruction of the word and the paradigm of relevant word forms.
In addition, students have direct access to the German version of Wikipedia to look
up proper nouns and related concepts. Thus the system reuses proven, reliable and
robust human language resources that are freely available (see Wood, 2008).
However, in addition to the development of language tools in isolation, we meanwhile
also see applications that provide a combination of a number of tools. For instance,
Knutsson,CerratoPargmanandSeverinsonEklundh(2003)adaptedandtested Granska,
a grammar checker for learners of Swedish as a foreign language, which originally had
INTELLIGENT CALL 255
been developed for Swedish native speakers. They reported that Granska ‘detected
about 35% of all errors’ (n.p.). Students noted that they had difﬁculties using the
program because of a lack of advanced computer training and due to the high number
of false alarms the program generated. Later Granska became the main language
technology component of Grim (Karlström, Cerratto-Pargman, Lindström & Knutsson,
2007), a tool for learners of Swedish. Grim combines the grammar checker Granska
with a surface syntactic parser, a concordance interface to the Swedish version part of
the Parole corpus, a dictionary and an interface to a tool for automatic word inﬂection
(Knutsson, Cerratto Pargman, Severinson Eklundh & Westlund, 2007).
Another area in ICALL, which has received increased interest more recently, is
that of automated essay scoring (Coniam, 2009; Cotos, 2011; Ware & Warschauer,
2006; Warschauer & Grimes, 2008; Warschauer & Ware, 2006). For instance, Lonsdale
and Strong-Krause (2003) present a parser-based essay rater for beginning learners
of English as a Foreign or Second Language, which achieved an inter-annotator
agreement with human raters of 62.1% to 69.5%.The authors conclude that a ‘purely
syntactic parse does not always assure appropriate ratings’ (n.p.). They identiﬁed
possible improvements of the linguistic processing and argue that ‘the output from a
non-traditional syntactic parser can be used to grade ESL essays.With a robust enough
parser, reasonable results can be achieved, even for highly ungrammatical text’ (n.p.).
Coniam (2009) evaluates BETSY with ESL examination essays from Hong Kong
students. BETSY’s scores correlated highly with those given by human raters and thus
Coniam concludes that essay scoring software is an efﬁcient tool for the evaluation
of word-processed essays. His focus on automated essay scoring for assessment
purposes is complemented by the studies by Warschauer and colleagues (Ware &
Warschauer, 2006; Warschauer & Grimes, 2008; Warschauer & Ware, 2006) who focus
on the feedback capabilities of such systems and their use in the language classroom.
Warschauer and Grimes (2008) investigated the in-class use of two systems, Criterion
and My Access, in secondary schools. In their study, the teachers’ highly positive
perception of the beneﬁts of AES in the classroom was contradicted by their limited
and infrequent use of the systems in class. Although students clearly beneﬁted in a
number of ways from their work with the two systems, ‘almost all of the revisions that
students made were narrow in scope’ (p. 29). Warschauer and Ware (2006) summarize
their ﬁndings as follows:
We believe that both of the above-described potentials – technology that empowers
by providing instant evaluation and feedback, and technology that dehumanizes by
eliminating the human element – exist in automated writing evaluation software.
Where on the continuum between these two outcomes AWE might fall depends
on how such software is used in speciﬁc teaching and learning contexts, a matter
subject to empirical investigation. (p. 20)
Cotos (2011) situates her study of IADE, a system that provides feedback on discourse
moves in academic texts (Pendar & Cotos, 2009), in the interactional framework of
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
256
SLA. She states that IADE has ‘the potential to trigger noticing and focus on discourse
form [and will thus] enhance learning’ (p. 444). Like IADE, TechWriter (Napolitano &
Stent, 2009) provides assistance for specialized text genres, in this case, technical
writing. It relies on the public part of the American National Corpus and is tagged for
parts of speech. Learner texts are then checked against n-gram sequences of stemmed
words and part-of-speech tags. Their relative and absolute frequencies in the corpus
are then compared to the respective frequencies in the student text. Differences signal
the probable occurrence of an error. Feedback is provided through offering alternative
n-gram sequences from the corpus data. Although the system has not yet been
evaluated formally, it is used by students at Stony Brook University.
These applications described above are excellent examples of theory-based ICALL.
Their functionalities, such as the highlighting not only of errors but also of important
morpho-syntactic features of the text, are all grounded in relevant SLA theories. The
researchers/developers are well cognizant of the importance of focus on form (Long,
1991), interaction (Gass, 1997; Long, 1996) and the noticing of linguistic features
(Schmidt, 1990). They conceptualize the mediating role of technology by relying on
an understanding of Activity Theory (Lantolf & Thorne, 2006) that can depict both
language learning processes as well as human computer interaction. Moreover, in
interpreting ‘interaction’ not only in the context of SLA but also in terms of human
computer interaction, it becomes apparent that ICALL systems provide many different
types of student input from ﬁll-in-the-blank (cloze exercises) through sentential input to
the handling of large texts. Computer reactions to this input also vary from system to
system. Error detection and feedback are very common. Language generation systems
(Bailin & Thomson, 1988; Harbusch et al., 2008; Zock, 1992; Zock et al., 1986) provide
students with well-formed examples of the L2. Systems that augment texts with
linguistic information, for example, by displaying a paradigm of a verb in the text, react
with contextualized help and additional information to a student’s request. Grammar,
style and spelling checkers provide guidance during form-focused learning activities
and phases.Thus ICALL systems have engaged or at least have the potential to engage
language learners in a wide selection of interactions. For a number of ICALL systems
such interactions happen in the well-deﬁned context of a communicative, language
learning task. This aspect of ICALL as a venue for language learning interaction is
complemented by the role of ICALL connecting learners, instructors and researchers
with electronic language resources. One of the most important sets of such resources
are corpora, principled, electronic collections of texts.
Reference and learner corpora
Reference and learner corpora are at the nexus of Applied Linguistics and ICALL.
ElectroniccorporahavebecomeawidelyusedresearchtoolnotjustinCorpusLinguistics
but also in many other linguistic disciplines. For example, researchers in descriptive
and formal linguistics (e.g., Biber, Conrad & Reppen, 1998), lexicography (e.g., Baker,
INTELLIGENT CALL 257
Francis, Sinclair & Tognini-Bonelli, 1993) and translation studies (e.g., Olohan, 2003)
use large corpora to study examples of language use. Such large electronic corpora for
a variety of different languages and with texts of a wide range of genres have become
more widely available in recent years. Consequently, we have seen more frequent
corpus use both in NLP research and development and in language learning.
Generally, there are three different ways of employing corpora in NLP and CALL.
First, the use of corpora to evaluate NLP tools in CALL is relatively common.
However, the limited amount of linguistic data used does commonly not approximate
the size of modern electronic corpora. Usually, the data consist of small collections
of sentences or samples of student essays. Examples of parser-based projects that
have utilized electronic collections of sentences or texts produced by learners will be
given.
Second, corpora are employed in the design of NLP tools. Here both types – learner
corpora (collections of L2 texts produced by a population of language learners) and
reference corpora (representative and relatively clean samples of L1 texts) – can be
utilized. The work by Granger and her team who examined errors in second language
texts is an example of using a learner corpus in an ICALL project. Their FRIDA (French
Interlanguage Database) corpus was analysed to extract detailed error statistics and
to perform concordance-based analyses of speciﬁc error types (Granger, 2003b). The
results were then used to improve the error diagnosis system integrated in the FreeText
ICALL program (Hamel, 1996; L
’Haire & Vandeventer Faltin, 2003; Schulze & Hamel,
2000; Vandeventer, 2001; Vandeventer Faltin, 2003). In a different project, Dagneaux,
Denness and Granger (1998) also performed an analysis of learner errors to advance
research in computer-aided error analysis. The authors hope that this approach will
give a new impetus to Error Analysis research and re-establish it as an important area
of study. The data employed to demonstrate the technique consist of a 150,000-word
corpus of English written by French-speaking learners at the intermediate and
advanced levels. After the initial native speaker correction, the corpus is annotated
for errors using a comprehensive error classiﬁcation. This stage is a computer-aided
process supported by an ‘error editor’. The error-tagged corpus can then be analysed
by using standard text retrieval software tools and to obtain lists of the different types
of errors and error counts in a matter of seconds (p. 163). While other projects have
used similar information on learner errors, they are usually extracted from signiﬁcantly
smaller samples of learner text.
In recent years, the ICALL research community recognized that a robust and
standardized annotation of errors in learner corpora becomes increasingly important.
The two pre-conference workshops of the CALICO special interest group in ICALL in
2008 and 2009 focused on the theme ‘Automatic Analysis of Learner Language’ and
selected papers were published in a special issue of the CALICO Journal (Meurers,
2009). Interesting approaches emerged but the ‘gold standard’ of learner corpus
annotation and/or automatic analysis learner texts is still elusive.
In the design of the NLP components of ICALL systems, the exploitation of learner
corpora of different sizes has played a role. The use of reference corpora, however,
has had much less inﬂuence. Statistical NLP (Manning & Schütze, 1999) and statistical
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
258
machine translation (Dale, Moisl & Somers, 2000) have relied on large text corpora
including parallel corpora that display the same texts in more than one language.These
approaches have also played an important role in automated essay scoring (Attali &
Burstein, 2006; Shermis & Burstein, 2003; Warschauer & Grimes, 2008) and have
been employed especially to determine the lexical and morpho-syntactic accuracy
level of student essays (Kaplan et al., 1998). It is rare, however, that the usefulness
of statistical approaches in ICALL has been explored. Comparing chunks of learner
texts (n-grams of various sizes) to large, clean reference corpora is a fruitful avenue
of current and future research. This has already been exempliﬁed for the detection
of lexical errors (Tsao & Wible, 2009), sentence analysis (Sun et al., 2007), error
correction of selected linguistic phenomena (De Felice & Pulman, 2008; Gammon,
2010; Gamon et al., 2009), error detection in essays (Chodorow & Leacock, 2000) and
the application of statistical machine translation methods to error correction (Brockett,
Dolan, & Gamon, 2006).
The third and last approach to using corpora in ICALL is probably the most
straightforward. A number of projects have successfully combined NLP tools and
corpora and applied them to CALL environments. The Glosser project (Dokter &
Nerbonne, 1998; Nerbonne, Dokter & Smit, 1998; Roosmaa & Prószéky, 1998), the
Irakazi project (Aldabe & Maritxalar, 2005) and OuickAssist (Wood, 2011), for instance,
combine tools for morphological analysis (lemmatizer, morphological analyser) with the
opportunity for the language learner and/or teacher to consult a relevant corpus. This
combination enables the user to select a word and then look up instances of different
inﬂected forms as well as potentially related words of the same word family as they
appear in the corpus.
Future research
ICALL has undoubtedly added a new dimension to more traditional CALL environments
due to its sophisticated underlying technologies. NLP and AI modelling techniques
provide the analytical complexity underpinning an ILTS thereby resulting in a more
learner-centred,individualizedlanguagelearningenvironment.Unlikeearlierapplications
that primarily focused on grammar taught in more traditional learning environments,
more recent applications reﬂect a wide range of teaching and learning approaches by
also addressing a variety of language skills.
During the 30 years of its existence, ICALL has become a major impetus for tutorial
CALL (Hubbard & Bradin-Siskin, 2004). A turn towards more applied research questions
in computational linguistics (ten Hacken, 2003), and a sustained interest in CALL in both
modern language technology and tutorial CALL coupled with the improved availability
of robust linguistic and computational resources for natural language processing should
imply that this positive trend will continue.
As evident from the examples provided in this chapter, progress in terms of
widespread and sustained use of ICALL applications in real language learning
INTELLIGENT CALL 259
situations (Amaral & Meurers, 2011) has been slow and sketchy. This is mainly due
to the immense complexities of the computational processing of human language
and the nature of language itself coupled with the complexity of foreign language
learning processes. However, ICALL has added and will continue to add innovative and
interesting facets to (tutorial) CALL in particular, and to Applied Linguistics in general
through its capability to analyse student input and observe and support students’
language learning behaviour. Continued progress in developing robust, effective and
widely used ICALL systems can only be made if the ‘communication problem and a
mutual lack of interest’ (Zock, 1996) between researchers in CALL and SLA on one
side and Computational Linguistics on the other are superseded by joint discussions
and projects.
Nerbonne (2003) expressed some surprise that available NLP-based language
resources which are very robust such as parallel corpora, part-of-speech taggers,
lemmatizers and morphological analysers are not more widely used and integrated in
CALL software. This has, however, changed since the ICALL community has moved
away from its almost exclusive focus on the diagnosis and correction of lexical and
syntactic errors and, as we saw with the examples in this chapter, has applied NLP to
the support of reading activities, increasing language awareness, supporting writing
processes, and providing rich, contextualized examples of current language use.
This focus on scaffolding and the provision of learning resources makes good use of
established and often widely available NLP tools and thus stimulates further progress
in ICALL research and development by, at the same time, providing innovative language
learning artefacts for students and instructors.
Finally, the different aspects of quality of ICALL systems need to be measured
against emerging standards and by widely accepted and established methods. More
empirical studies such as the ones by Heift (2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2010c)
and Nagata (1992, 1996, 1998a, 1998b) are required to evaluate the effectiveness of
ICALL systems, provide insight into SLA processes and outcomes, measure learning
outcomes and inform software design decisions.These need to take into consideration
the entire bandwidth of language learning activities supported by ICALL systems.
Moreover, aspects such as the grammatical and lexical coverage and error detection
rate of ICALL systems need to be well documented to establish gold standards.
References
Aldabe, I., & Maritxalar, M. (2005). IRAKAZI: A Web-based system to assess the
learning process of Basque language learners. Paper presented at the Eurocall 2005
conference. EUROCALL 2005, Krakow, Poland.
Amaral, L. (2007). Designing intelligent language tutoring systems for integration into
foreign language instruction. PhD Thesis, The Ohio State University, United States.
Amaral, L., & Meurers, D. (2011). On using intelligent computer-assisted language learning
in real-life foreign language teaching and learning. ReCALL, 23(1), 4–24.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
260
Amaral, L., & Meurers, W. D. (2007). Conceptualizing student models for ICALL. In
C. Conati, K. McCoy & G. Paliouras (Eds.), User Modeling 2007
. 11th International
Conference, UM 2007
, 25–29 June 2007
, Corfu, Greece (pp. 340–4). Berlin; Germany:
Springer-Verlag.
Amaral, L., Metcalf, V., & Meurers, W. D. (2006). Language awareness through re-use of
NLP technology. Paper presented at the Pre-conference Workshop on NLP in CALL –
Computational and Linguistic Challenges. CALICO 2006, Honolulu, Hawaii.
Attali, Y., & Burstein, J. (2006). Automated essay scoring with e-rater® V.2. Journal of
Technology, Learning, and Assessment, 4(3). Retrieved from http://escholarship.bc.edu/
jtla/vol4/3/
Bailin, A. (Ed.) (1991). Special Issue of the CALICO Journal on ICALL. CALICO, 9 (1).
Bailin, A. (1995). Intelligent computer-assisted language learning: A bibliography.
Computers and the Humanities, 29(5), 375–87
.
Bailin, A., & Levin, L. S. (Eds.) (1989). Intelligent computer-assisted language instruction.
Computers and the Humanities, 23.
Bailin, A., & Thomson, P
. (1988). The use of natural language processing in
computer-assisted language instruction. Computers and the Humanities, 22, 99–110.
Baker, M., Francis, G., Sinclair, J. M., & Tognini-Bonelli, E. (1993). Text and technology: In
honour of John Sinclair. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Biber, D., Conrad, S., & Reppen, R. (1998). Corpus Linguistics: Investigating language
structure and use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bowles, M. (2005). Effects of verbalization condition and type of feedback on L2
development in a CALL task. PhD dissertation, Georgetown University, Washington,
DC.
Brockett, C., Dolan, W. B., & Gamon, M. (2006). Correcting ESL errors using phrasal
SMT techniques. Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational
Linguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, (pp. 249–56), Sydney.
Chanier, T. (1994). Special issue on language learning. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence in
Education, 5.
Chodorow, M., & Leacock, C. (2000). An unsupervised method for detecting grammatical
errors. Proceedings of the 1st North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics conference (pp. 140–7). Seattle.
Coniam, D. (2009). Experimenting with a computer essay-scoring program based on ESL
student writing scripts. ReCALL, 21(2), 259–79.
Cotos, E. (2011). Potential of automated writing evaluation feedback. CALICO Journal,
28(2), 420–59.
Dagneaux, E., Denness, S., & Granger, S. (1998). Computer-aided error analysis. System,
26(2), 163–74.
Dale, R., Moisl, H., & Somers, H. (Eds.) (2000). Handbook of natural language processing.
New York: Marcel Dekker.
De Felice, R., & Pulman, S. G. (2008). A classiﬁer-based approach to preposition and
determiner error correction in L2 English. Proceedings of the 22nd International
Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling 2008) (pp. 160–76). Manchester, UK.
Dickinson, M., Eom, S., Kang, Y., Lee, C., & Sachs, R. (2008). A balancing act: How can
intelligent computer-generated feedback be provided in learner-to-learner interactions?
Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(4), 369–82.
Dokter, D., & Nerbonne, J. A. (1998). A session with Glosser-RuG. In S. Jager, J. A.
Nerbonne & A. van Essen (Eds.), Language teaching and language technology (pp.
89–95). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
INTELLIGENT CALL 261
Gammon, M. (2010). Using mostly native data to correct errors in learners’ writing: A
meta-classiﬁer approach. Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference
of the North American Chapter of the ACL, (pp. 163–71). Los Angeles.
Gamon, M., Leacock, C., Brockett, C., Dolan, W. B., Gao, J., Belenko, D., & Klementiev,
A. (2009). Using statistical techniques and Web search to correct ESL errors. CALICO
JOURNAL, 26(3), 491–511.
Gamper, J., & Knapp, J. (2002). A review of intelligent CALL systems. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 15(4), 329–42.
Gass, S. M. (1997). Input, interaction, and the second language learner. Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Granger, S. (2003a). The international corpus of learner English: A new resource for foreign
language learning and teaching and second language acquisition research. TESOL
Quarterly, 37(3), 538–46.
— (2003b, 10–11 October). Learner corpora for SLA. Paper presented at the Conference
on Technology for SLL, Memorial Union, Iowa State University.
Hamburger, H. (1994). Foreign language immersion: Science, practice, and a system.
Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Education, 5(4), 429–53.
Hamburger, H., & Hashim, R. (1992). Foreign language tutoring and learning environment.
In M. L. Swartz & M. Yazdani (Eds.), Intelligent tutoring systems for foreign language
learning: The bridge to international communication (pp. 201–18). Berlin: Springer
Verlag.
Hamburger, H., Schoelles, M., & Reeder, F
. (1999). More intelligent CALL. In K. Cameron
(Ed.), Computer-Assisted Language Learning (pp. 183–202). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Hamburger, H., Tuﬁs, D., & Hashim, R. (1993). Structuring two – medium dialog for
learning language and other things. In O. Rambow (Ed.), Intentionality and structure
in discourse relations. Proceedings of a workshop sponsored by the Special Interest
Group on generation of the Association of Computational Linguistics (pp. 27–30).
Columbus, Ohio.
Hamel, M.-J. (1996). NLP tools for NLP in CALL for error diagnosis. Canadian Journal of
Applied Linguistics, 18(2), 125–41.
— (2010). Prototype d’un dictionnaire électronique de reformulation pour apprenants
avancés de français langue seconde. Cahiers de l’APLIUT, XXIX(1), 73–82.
Harbusch, K., Itsova, G., Koch, U., & Kuhner, C. (2008). The sentence fairy: A
natural-language generation system to support children. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 21(4), 339–52.
Heift, T. (2001). Error-speciﬁc and individualized feedback in a Web-based language tutoring
system: Do they read it? ReCALL, 13(2), 129–42.
— (2002). Learner control and error correction in ICALL: Browsers, peelers and adamants.
CALICO Journal, 19(3), 295–313.
— (2003). Multiple learner errors and feedback: A challenge for ICALL systems. CALICO
Journal, 20(3), 549–60.
— (2004). Corrective feedback and learner uptake in CALL. ReCALL, 16(2), 416–31.
— (2005). Inspectable learner reports for Web-based language learning. ReCALL, 17(1),
32–46.
— (2006). Context-sensitive help in CALL. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(4),
243–59.
— (2010a). Bridging computational and applied linguistics: Implementation challenges and
beneﬁts. Language Teaching, 43(1), 102–5.
— (2010b). Developing an intelligent tutor. CALICO Journal, 27(3), 443–59.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
262
— (2010c). Prompting in CALL: A longitudinal study of learner uptake. Modern Language
Journal, 94(2), 198–216.
Heift, T., & Schulze, M. (Eds.) (2003). Error Analysis and Error Correction. Special Issue of
the CALICO Journal, 20 (3).
Heift, T., & Schulze, M. (2007). Errors and intelligence in CALL. Parsers and pedagogues.
New York: Routledge.
Holland, V. M., Kaplan, J. D., & Sams, M. R. (Eds.) (1995). Intelligent language tutors:
Theory shaping technology. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Hubbard, P
., & Bradin-Siskin, C. (2004). Another look at tutorial CALL. ReCALL, 16(2),
448–61.
Jehle, F
. (1987). A free-form dialog program in Spanish. CALICO Journal, 5(2), 11–22.
Jurafsky, D., & Martin, J. H. (2000). Speech and language processing: An introduction to
natural language processing, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Kaplan, R., Wolff, S., Burstein, J., Lu, C., Rock, D. A., & Kaplan, B. A. (1998). Scoring
Essays Automatically Using Surface Features (GRE Board Professional Rep. No
94–21P; ETS RR-98–39). Princeton, NJ: ETS.
Karlström, P
., Cerratto-Pargman, T., Lindström, H., & Knutsson, O. (2007). Tool mediation
in focus on form activities: Case studies in a grammar-exploring environment. ReCALL,
19(1), 39–56.
Knapp, J. (2004). A new approach to CALL content authoring. Doctoral Dissertation,
Universität Hannover, Hannover.
Knutsson, O., Cerrato Pargman, T., & Severinson Eklundh, K. (2003). Transforming
grammar checking technology into a learning environment for second language writing
Proceedings of the Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational
Applications: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Knutsson, O., Cerratto Pargman, T., Severinson Eklundh, K., & Westlund, S. (2007).
Designing and developing a language environment for second language writers.
Computers & Education, 49(4), 1122–46.
L
’Haire, S. (2007). FipsOrtho: A spell checker for learners of French. ReCALL, 19(2),
137–61.
L
’Haire, S., & Vandeventer Faltin, A. (2003). Error diagnosis in the FreeText project. CALICO
Journal, 20(3), 481–96.
Lantolf, J. P
., & Thorne, S. L. (2006). Sociocultural theory and the genesis of second
language development. Oxford & New York: Oxford University Press.
Levy, M. (1997). Computer-assisted language learning. Context and conceptualisation.
Oxford: Clarendon.
— (2009). A tutor-tool framework. In P
. Hubbard (Ed.), Computer assisted language
learning: Critical concepts in linguistics (45–78). New York: Routledge.
Lewis, D. (1997). Machine translation in a modern languages curriculum. Computer
Assisted Language Learning, 10(3), 255–71.
Long, M. H. (1991). Focus on form: A design feature in language teaching methodology.
In K. de Bot, D. Coste, R. Ginsberg & C. Kramsch (Eds.), Foreign language research in
cross-cultural perspectives. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
— (1996). The role of the linguistic environment in second language acquisition.
In W. C. Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of second language acquisition
(pp. 413–68). San Diego: Academic Press.
Lonsdale, D., & Strong-Krause, D. (2003). Automated rating of ESL scores proceedings
of the workshop on innovative use of NLP for building educational applications:
Association for computational linguistics.
INTELLIGENT CALL 263
Manning, C. D., & Schütze, H. (1999). Foundations of statistical natural language
processing. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Maritxalar, M., Ezeiza, N., & Schulze, M. (Eds.) (2007). Proceedings of the workshop NLP
for educational resources at the international conference recent advances in natural
language programming 2007. Borovets, Bulgaria: Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
Matthews, C. (1992a). Going AI. Foundations of ICALL. CALL, 5(1–2), 13–31.
— (1992b). Intelligent CALL (ICALL) bibliography. Hull: CTI Centre for Modern Languages.
— (1993). Grammar frameworks in intelligent CALL. CALICO Journal, 11(1), 5–27
.
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is Artiﬁcial Intelligence? Retrieved 17 November 2009, from
www-formal.stanford.edu/jmc/whatisai/whatisai.html
Meurers, W. D. (Ed.) (2009). Automatic analysis of learner language. Special issue of the
Calico Journal, 26(3). San Marcos, TX: Calico.
Nagata, N. (1992). A study of the effectiveness of Intelligent CALI as an application of
natural language processing. PhD Thesis, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh.
— (1996). Computer vs. workbook instruction in second language acquisition. CALICO
Journal, 14(1), 53–75.
— (1998a). Input vs. output practice in educational software for second language
acquisition. Language Learning & Technology, 1(2), 23–40.
— (1998b). The relative effectiveness of production comprehension practice in second
language acquisition. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 11(2), 153–77
.
— (2009). Robo-Sensei’s NLP-based error detection and feedback generation. CALICO
JOURNAL, 26(3), 562–79.
Napolitano, D. M., & Stent, A. (2009). TechWriter: An evolving system for writing
assistance for advanced learners of English. CALICO Journal, 26(3), 611–25.
Nerbonne, J. A. (2003). Natural language processing in computer-assisted language
learning. In R. Mitkov (Ed.), The Oxford handbook of computational linguistics (pp.
670–98). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nerbonne, J. A., & Dokter, D. (1999). An intelligent word-based language learning
assistant. Traitement Automatique des Languages, 40(1), 125–42.
Nerbonne, J. A., Dokter, D., & Smit, P
. (1998). Morphological processing and
computer-assisted language learning. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 11(5),
543–59.
Niño, A. (2008). Evaluating the use of machine translation post-editing in the foreign
language class. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(1), 29–49.
Olohan, M. (2003). Introducing corpora in translation studies. London: Routledge.
Pendar, N., & Cotos, E. (2009). Automatic identiﬁcation of discourse moves in scientiﬁc
article introductions. Proceedings of the third ACL workshop on innovative use of NLP
for building educational applications. Columbus, OH: Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Pujola, J.-T. (2002). CALLing for help: Researching language learning strategies using help
facilities in a Web-based multimedia program. ReCALL, 14(2), 235–62.
Rimrott, A., & Heift, T. (2008). Evaluating automatic detection of misspellings in German.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(3), 73–92.
Roosmaa, T., & Prószéky, G. (1998). GLOSSER – Using language technology tools for
reading texts in a foreign language. In S. Jager, J. A. Nerbonne & A. van Essen (Eds.),
Language teaching and language technology (pp. 101–7). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Rosa, E., & Leow, R. (2004). Computerized task-based exposure, explicitness and type of
feedback on Spanish L2 development. Modern Language Journal, 88, 192–217
.
Schmidt, R. W. (1990). The role of consciousness in second language learning. Applied
Linguistics, 11(2), 129–58.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
264
Schoelles, M., & Hamburger, H. (1996). Teacher-usable exercise design tools. In C.
Frasson, G. Gauthier & A. Lesgold (Eds.), Intelligent tutoring systems. Second
international conference, ITS’96, Montréal, Canada, June 1996, proceedings (pp.
102–10). Berlin: Springer Verlag.
Schulze, M. (2008a). AI in CALL – Artiﬁcially inﬂated or almost imminent? CALICO
JOURNAL, 25(3), 510–27
.
— (2008b). Instruction and modeling in ICALL. Retrieved 7 October 2011, from www.
aila2008.org/public/pdf-dokumente-aila/tagungsband-abstract/abstracts(2)symposia.pdf
— (Ed.) (2008c). Interfaces in intelligent CALL. Special issue of computer assisted
language Learning, 21(4). London: Routledge.
Schulze, M., & Hamel, M.-J. (2000). Towards authentic tasks and experiences. The
example of parser-based CALL. Canadian Journal of Applied Linguistics, 3(1–2), 79–90.
Schulze, M., Hamel, M.-J., & Thompson, J. (Eds.) (1999). Language processing in CALL.
ReCALL special publication (Proceedings of a one-day conference ‘natural language
processing in computer-assisted language learning’ Held at UMIST, 9 May 1998,
Organised by the Centre of Computational Linguistics, UMIST, in Association with
Eurocall). Hull: CTICML.
Self, J. A. (1994). The role of student models in learning environments. IEICE Transactions
on Information and Systems, 77(1), 8.
Shermis, M. D., & Burstein, J. (2003). Automated essay scoring: A cross-disciplinary
perspective. Mahwah, NJ; London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Sun, G., Liu, X., Cong, G., Zhou, M., Xiong, Z., Lee, J., & Lin, C.-Y. (2007). Detecting
erroneous sentences using automatically mined sequential patterns. Proceedings of
the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics (pp. 81–8).
Prague.
Swartz, M., & Yazdani, M. (Eds.) (1992). Intelligent tutoring systems for foreign language
learning. New York: Springer Verlag.
ten Hacken, P
. (2003). Computer-assisted language learning and the revolution in
computational linguistics. Linguistik online, 17(5), 23–39.
ten Hacken, P
., & Tschichold, C. (2001). Word Manager and CALL: Structured access to the
lexicon as a tool for enriching learners’ vocabulary. ReCALL, 13(1), 121–31.
Thompson, J., & Zähner, C. (Eds.) (1992). Proceedings of the ICALL Workshop, UMIST,
September 1991. Hull: University of Hull, CTI Centre for Modern Languages.
Tokuda, N., & Chen, L. (2002). Special issue on ICALL. Computer-assisted language
learning, 15(4). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Tsao, N.-L., & Wible, D. (2009). A method for unsupervised broad-coverage lexical error
detection and correction. Proceedings of the NAACL HLT workshop on innovative use
of NLP for building educational applications (pp. 51–4). Boulder, Colorado.
Underwood, J. H. (1982). Simulated conversation as CAI strategy. Foreign Language
Annals, 15, 209–12.
Vandeventer, A. (2001). Creating a grammar checker for CALL by constraint relaxation:
A feasibility study. ReCALL, 13(1), 110–20.
Vandeventer Faltin, A. (2003). Natural language processing tools for computer assisted
language learning. Linguistik online, 17(5), 137–53.
Vlugter, P
., Knott, A., McDonald, J., & Hall, C. (2009). Dialogue-based CALL: A case study
on teaching pronouns. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 22(2), 115–31.
Walker, N. R., Troﬁmovich, P
., Cedergren, H., & Gatbonton, E. (2011). Using ASR
technology in language training for speciﬁc purposes: A perspective from Quebec,
Canada. CALICO Journal, 28(3), 721–43.
INTELLIGENT CALL 265
Ware, P
., & Warschauer, M. (2006). Electronic feedback and second language writing.
In K. Hyland & F
. Hyland (Eds.), Feedback and second language writing. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2008). Automated writing assessment in the classroom.
Pedagogies: An International Journal, 3, 22–36.
Warschauer, M., & Healey, D. (1998). Computers and language learning: An overview.
Language Teaching, 31, 57–71.
Warschauer, M., & Ware, P
. (2006). Automated writing evaluation: Deﬁning the classroom
research agenda. Language Teaching Research, 10(2), 157–80.
Weischedel, R. M., Voge, W. M., & James, M. (1978). An artiﬁcial intelligence approach to
language instruction. Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 10, 225–40.
Williams, L. (2006). Web-based machine translation as a tool for promoting electronic
literacy and language awareness. Foreign Language Annals, 39(4), 565–78.
Wood, P
. (2008). Developing ICALL tools using GATE. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 21(4), 383–92.
— (2011). Computer assisted reading in German as a foreign language. Developing and
testing an NLP-based application. CALICO Journal 28(3), 662–76.
Zock, M. (1988). Language learning as problem solving. Modeling logical aspects of
inductive learning to generate sentences in French by man and machine. Proceedings
of the Twelfth International Conference on Computational Linguistics (Vol. 2, pp.
806–11). Budapest: John von Neumann Society for Computing Sciences.
— (1992). SWIM or Sink: The problem of communicating thought. In M. L. Swartz &
M. Yazdani (Eds.), Intelligent tutoring systems for foreign language learning. The Bridge
to International Communication (pp. 235–47). Berlin: Springer Verlag.
— (1996). Computational linguistics and its use in real world: The case of computer
assisted language learning. Proceedings of Coling’96: The Sixteenth International
Conference on Computational Linguistics (pp. 1002–4). Copenhagen: Center for
Sprogteknologi.
Zock, M., Sabah, G., & Alviset, C. (1986). From structure to process. Computer-assisted
teaching of various strategies for generating pronoun constructions in French.
Proceedings of COLING (pp. 566–9). Bonn.
14
Technology-enhanced reading
environments
Youngmin Park, Binbin Zheng, Joshua
Lawrence and Mark Warschauer
Summary
Although we live in a globalized information society where the ability to read
in English is more important than ever before, many learners of English as
a second or foreign language still struggle with this important skill. This chapter
presents an overview of research on computer-supported reading. We ﬁrst
present the major components of reading, including word decoding, language
comprehension and text interpretation, and summarize research on computer-
assisted reading in each of these areas. We then hone in on two examples of
recent approaches to the use of digital media to support second language reading.
In the ﬁrst example, we introduce visual-syntactic text formatting (VSTF), which
presents texts in a cascaded version that helps compensate for limitations in
explicit or implicit syntactic knowledge among second language learners. Empirical
studies in classroom settings demonstrate the effectiveness of this syntactically
cued text formatting on reading comprehension, retention and proﬁciency. The
second example, capitalizing on the interactive and collaborative nature of blogs,
demonstrates the beneﬁts of sociocultural learning in support of reading. Both
quantitative and qualitative analysis of ﬁfth-grade students’ blog posts reveals that
online communication not only engages English learners, but also helps them
develop text interpretation abilities by enriching cognitive skills and students’
sense of audience and authorship. We conclude by discussing directions for future
research, drawing on a typology that identiﬁes eleven types of digital resources
that can be used to enhance reading comprehension.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
268
Introduction
In a global economy and information-based society, the ability to read well in English
is more important than ever before, and one that has signiﬁcant consequences for
non-native speakers of the language. In English as a foreign language (EFL) contexts
English language reading is an increasing necessity for global interaction, especially
with an estimated 80 to 90% of the world’s scientiﬁc research printed in English
(Montgomery, 2004). Yet achievement of high standards of English reading is beyond
the reach of most EFL learners, especially those whose native language is not
Indo-European and does not use the Latin script. Countries such as China, Korea and
Japan continually ﬁnd that even ten years of English instruction is not sufﬁcient to
enable people to read needed English-language material in their ﬁeld of study (see, for
example, Kim, Chin & Goodman, 2004; Sheu, 2003; Tanaka & Stapleton, 2007).
In ESL settings, the ability to read English is even more critical, shaping young
people’s likelihood of graduating from high school and being able to pursue further
studies or a career. Yet, in the United States, for example, only 25% of English
language learners achieve even a basic level of English reading proﬁciency by eighth
grade; the remaining 75% hardly make basic sense of reading materials, make obvious
connections between texts and their previous experiences or make simple inferences
when reading grade-appropriate texts (National Center for Educational Statistics,
2011).
To help address these challenges, applied linguists and educators have introduced
diverse approaches to improve second language reading, including extensive reading
(Day & Bamford, 1998; Iwahori, 2008; Sheu, 2003), strategy-based instruction
(Anderson, 1999; Souvignier & Mokhlesgerami, 2006; Sung, Chang & Huang, 2008),
motivational approaches (Carreira, 2006; Kim, 2010; Warden & Lin, 2000), and text
modiﬁcation (Oh, 2001; Rahimi, 2011;Wang, 2011). In the last 20 years with the growing
diffusion of multimedia computing and the internet, computer-based approaches to
the teaching and learning of second language reading have also gained in popularity.
In this chapter, we examine research on the use of computers and digital media
in second language reading instruction. First, we elaborate on the components of
second language reading and brieﬂy review computer-assisted reading research
consistent with these components. Then discuss at more length two particular
examples – syntactic text formatting and blogging – that represent recent approaches
to promoting reading with technology. We then introduce a typology that presents a
broad array of resources for digitally scaffolded reading.
Components of second language reading
Learning to read is a complex, multifaceted process, and even more so in a second
language. Theoretical frameworks analysing the process of learning to read (e.g.,
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 269
Cummins, 2008; Luke & Freebody, 1999; Scarborough, 2001) suggest three critical
components of this process: word recognition, language comprehension and text
interpretation.
Word recognition
Word recognition – either through phonological decoding or sight-reading – is widely
recognized as a vital skill for early reading development (Hoover & Gough, 1990; Joshi
& Aaron, 2000; McBride-Chang & Kail, 2002; Ziegler & Goswami, 2005). Paradoxically,
though, this skill is comparatively less important for L2 learners than for English
native speakers (L1). Most adolescent or adult L2 learners already have sufﬁcient
word recognition skills, and even very young L2 learners sometimes outperform their
L1 peers in word decoding (see Lesaux & Siegel, 2003). Software to promote word
recognition thus may not be particularly important for all L2 learners. So while a number
of studies suggest that technology-supported automaticity training can facilitate faster
lexical access during reading among L2 learners (see, for example, Fukkink, Hulstijn
& Simis, 2005; Li, 2010; Tozcu & Coady, 2004), it is far from clear that improvements
in automatic word recognition can facilitate improved textual comprehension without
concomitant improvement in language comprehension skills (Hulstijn, 2000; Fukkink,
Hulstijn & Simis, 2005). We interpret these ﬁndings as suggesting that the biggest
challenge facing L2 readers is not the area of word decoding, but in that of language
comprehension, an area we turn to next.
Language comprehension
There has been extensive research on how technology can be used to support
language comprehension, using tools such as electronic dictionaries, computer
software, Web-based activities and materials, and Web 2.0 tools. Given Hu and
Nation’s (2000) ﬁnding that readers need to know 98% of vocabulary in a text to
comprehend it and infer unknown words from the context, it is not surprising that
this has been an important area of computer-assisted language learning (CALL)
research.
Types of multimedia used in vocabulary learning studies vary from electronic
dictionaries, to multimedia glossing, to online word lists and corpus analyses, to video
trailers and short readings. A wide range of CALL-supported conditions have been
explored: the effect of access to internal glossary vs. external dictionary (Chun, 2011);
the effect of sentence-level translation vs. word-level basic translation on vocabulary
retention (Gettys, Imhof & Kautz, 2001; Grace, 1998); the effect of multimedia glosses
(e.g., graphics, videos or audio) vs. textual translations (Abraham, 2008; Al Seghayer,
2001; Yoshii & Flaitz, 2002); and learners’ multimedia preferences (Chun & Plass,
1996; Yanguas, 2009 ). Although the use of multimedia glosses is positively related
to proximal outcomes, such as better vocabulary acquisition (Gettys et al., 2001;
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
270
Proctor et al., 2011), relationships with more global outcomes like enhanced reading
comprehension have been harder to establish (Abraham, 2008; Proctor et al., 2011).
Text interpretation
Understanding of text genres, text structures, formality, metaphor, register and culturally
related aspects of language interact with word and sentence awareness in intricate
ways; it is especially difﬁcult for L2 learners to acquire these competencies. How then
do we help them in recognizing topics, making inferences and understanding text
structures and discourse organization? Kitajima (2002) proposed that computer-assisted
reading materials could help learners improve their higher-order interpretation skills
for constructing coherent text representation. It may be possible to use strategy
prompts embedded in digital texts to lead students to more effectively apply reading
strategies (e.g., those of predicting, questioning, clarifying, summarizing, visualizing
and empathizing) and to acknowledge text organizational patterns, but little research
has been conducted in these areas to date.
Cultural and textual background knowledge can also be built through classroom
discussion and interaction. Interventions, such as reciprocal teaching have been used
to help facilitate structured discussion about texts, leading to robust learning outcomes
(Palincsar & Brown, 1984; see Lawrence & Snow, 2010 for a review of similar studies).
It may be that similar results can be obtained through conversational writing (e.g., of
‘Experience Stories’, as Allen and Allen, suggested as long ago as 1976). Literacy is
a transaction between readers and writers who have mutual awareness and shared
expectations (Nystrand, 1986). Studies have shown that writing during reading
potentially leads to more critical thinking (Tierney & Shannahan, 1991), helps readers
to be more active, reﬂective and evaluative (Salvatori, 1985), and encourages students
to be more engaged in thinking more deeply about what they read (Colvin-Murphy,
1986).
Requiring some form of digital written interaction, textual feedback or annotation
can potentially offer such language learning opportunities (see discussion in Chun,
2011). For example, a blogging environment that encourages participants to negotiate
their understanding of the meaning of a text may encourage better understanding of
sociocultural aspects of meaning. Online interaction can also provide students with
opportunities to explore comprehensible language while building reading ﬂuency,
which can also help to keep L2 learners more motivated and focused on authentic
texts and tasks (Brandl, 2005; Chun, 2011; Lyman-Hager, 2000). For example, Carico
and Logan’s study (2004) on online discussion among university students and eighth
graders suggested that these students helped each other clarify confusing texts,
ﬁgure out together both plot elements and relationships and make connections
among readings. Another study by Grisham and Wolsey (2006) also suggested that
online threaded book discussions assisted eighth-grade students to engage in and
think deeply about the reading materials. In addition, the synchronous nature of online
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 271
threaded discussion enabled students to rapidly give and receive feedback, a process
that can lead to greater reﬂection, metacognition and more thoughtful construction of
ideas (Downes, 2004; Jacobs, 2003).
New approaches to computer-supported reading
In the last decade, new approaches to computer-supported reading have emerged
which appear to hold great promise. We present and discuss two approaches that our
research team has investigated: VSTF and blogging to learn.
Visual-syntactic text formatting
In contrast to the considerable amount of research on vocabulary learning with
multimedia scaffolding (Abraham, 2008; Chun, 2011; Chun & Payne, 2004; Yanguas,
2009), much less work has been done to support reading development through digital
scaffolding of syntax. Digital technology has enabled a text to be presented in various
ways by changing font size and style, text and background colour, line and page length,
and page layout (Anderson-Inman & Horney, 2007). For the past several decades,
researchers and educators have sought to see if such easily customizable texts could
be a more effective way to help improve reading comprehension. Such alterations
of text format have varied from simple changes in letters, line space or capitalization
(Marks & Taylor, 1966), to insertion of additional spaces between phrases (Bever,
Jandreau, Burwell, Kaplan & Zaenen, 1990; Jandreau & Bever, 1992; Jandreau, Muncer
& Bever, 1986; O’Shea & Sindelar, 1983), to linguistically informed text reformatting
using computer software (Straub, 2009). Another alternative, VSTF
, uses several of
these approaches simultaneously to present text in a cascading pattern formed into
visual clusters as seen in Figure 14.1.
What speciﬁc information do readers gain through this unusual format? Using
natural language processing techniques, VSTF automatically breaks sentences up at
salient clause and phrase boundaries, and presents visual clusters across multiple rows
to denote syntactic hierarchies (Walker et al., 2005). This text formatting is believed
to help readers retain and integrate multi-phrase images in their mind, as it seems to
facilitate more efﬁcient eye movement and syntactic processing (Warschauer, Park &
Walker, 2011).
In contrast to conventional text formatting that does not correspond to the limits of
human eye spans, VSTF speciﬁcally ﬁts each row of text into one or two ﬁxation eye
spans. Due to limitations of the human eye span, readers can typically only take in nine
to ﬁfteen characters at a time before moving to the next ﬁxation (Demb, Boynton &
Heeger, 1997). Everything else outside this limited space competes for visual attention,
leading readers – and especially struggling or L2 readers – to get lost in a sea of words.
Reading thus consists of a series of saccades or rapid eye movements as meaning
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
272
shifts in a reader’s glance to the next textual ﬁxation. Because of skipped words at
the edge of ﬁxations (Rayner & Sereno, 1994), combined with limitations of working
memory (Garrod, 1992), readers often have to re-examine previously viewed words
as they make these saccade shifts while encountering new blocks of reading text.
These repeated regressions not only slow down reading, but also impede reading
comprehension, especially for L2 learners and others with reading challenges.
One way to overcome this problem is by grasping words in clausal or phrasal
units, a process that helps skilled readers anticipate what comes next, and thus avoid
confusion at ﬁxation boundaries (Warschauer & Park, 2012). In contrast, poor readers
read one word at a time (Cromer, 1970) and rarely parse words into phrases or clauses
(Fuchs, Fuchs, Hosp & Jenkins, 2001).This need to comprehend text ﬁrst at a clausal or
phrasal level helps explain why learners’ syntactic knowledge is signiﬁcantly related to
both reading ﬂuency and reading comprehension (Mokhtari & Thompson, 2006; Ravid
& Mashraki, 2007 ). In other words, possessing the phonetic ability to decode individual
phonemes and words is a necessary skill for effective reading, but not a sufﬁcient
skill (Cain, Oakhill, Barnes & Bryant, 2001; Catts, Fey, Zhang & Tomblin, 1999; Nation
& Snowling, 2000). Syntactic awareness remains important, not only at a beginning
level, but also at more advanced levels, as readers encounter texts of greater variety
and complexity (Bowey, 1986; Gaux & Gombert, 1999). At all levels, more efﬁcient
syntactic parsing frees up working memory for semantic processing (Larkin & Simon,
FIGURE 14.1. Visual-syntactic text formatting (VSTF).
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 273
1987; Webb, Thornton, Hancock & McCarthy, 1992). For all these reasons, formatting
changes that provide syntactic clues have consistently been shown to improve reading
ﬂuency and speed (Bever et al., 1990; Jandreau & Bever, 1992; Jandreau, Muncer &
Bever, 1986; LeVasseur, Macaruso & Shankweiler, 2007).
The value of syntactic awareness in reading is closely related to that of prosodic
awareness, which interacts with syntax at the phrase level and with semantics at
the passage level (Esser, 1988). A number of studies have found that knowledge
of prosody – knowing about a language’s rhythm, stress and intonation patterns –
is highly correlated with a learner’s reading rate, accuracy and comprehension
(Dowhower, 1987; Miller & Schwanenﬂugel, 2006). Prosody in oral communication is
indicated in a variety of ways, including through pauses, word stress, and changes in
pitch, pacing and ﬂow. Unfortunately, in written communication, most of these clues
are either absent or substituted for by much more limited orthographic conventions,
such as punctuation and typographic emphasis (e.g., via italics, underlining or bold
typeface).
Just as L1 speakers carry out syntactic parsing while reading, aided by their
knowledge of prosody and rhetorical patterns, so do L2 learners. However, this process
is much more challenging for L2 learners, who either lack explicit knowledge of the
target language syntax or, in more cases, may know the rules but cannot automatically
use those rules to mentally process language. Due to this lack of syntactic knowledge
or skill, as well as interference from their ﬁrst language, learners make signiﬁcantly
more parsing errors when reading in a foreign language (Mack, 1986; White, 1989).
Thus, not surprisingly, knowledge of syntax has been proven to be a salient factor in
determining second language reading ability (Shiotsu, 2010), and the more dissimilar
the syntactic rules of a target language are from one’s native language, the more
difﬁcult reading in the target language becomes (Frenck-Mestre & Pynte, 1997).
All these reasons explain why the use of visual syntactic cues embedded in texts
can potentially be of greater beneﬁt to second language learners than more typical
approaches to text modiﬁcation, such as the simpliﬁcation or elaboration of content
(Oh, 2001).
Empirical research on VSTF
Studies among college students have found that reading text in VSTF improves reading
comprehension, with readers using that format scoring 40% higher than block format
readers (Walker et al., 2005). Other studies suggest that VSTF is effective in improving
students’ reading speed. The participants wearing eye-tracking equipment showed a
20% increase in their average reading speeds when using VSTF as opposed to reading
in block format (Warschauer, Park & Walker, 2011). Not only did their reading rates
and comprehension improve, but better academic content retention was also reported
in VSTF studies with high school students in World History classes (Walker & Vogel,
2005; Walker et al., 2007). Most interestingly, a number of studies have found that
students who read regularly with VSTF can also transfer such skills they have learned,
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
274
and thereby tend to become more proﬁcient readers of material in traditional block
format, presumably due to gaining increased conﬁdence in their reading, or perhaps
also due to how such explicit training helps to raise their awareness of the importance
of implicit language structural patterns (Vogel, 2002; Walker & Vogel, 2005; Walker
et al., 2005; Walker et al., 2007).
Though VSTF has been used with both L1 and L2 speakers of English, evidence
suggests it is particularly effective with the latter. In a study with high school students,
greater gains were seen with lower proﬁcient students than among those who were
already good readers (Walker et al., 2005). Many of these were L2 learners who were
able to achieve the same reading proﬁciency level at the end of the year as the control
group of L1 readers. Walker and Vogel (2005) also reported that the use of VSTF had
a positive effect on L2 learners’ reading development across all secondary grades,
allowing these L2 learners’ reading with VSTF to close between one-half to the entire
gap between themselves and L1 speakers who did not use VSTF
.
In summary, though there has been broader attention to the value of multimedia
scaffolding to assist reading comprehension, there are also very promising signs of the
value of syntactic scaffolding.
Blogging to learn
Blogging ﬁrst emerged as a social phenomenon in about 1999 and was introduced
in classrooms soon thereafter (for review and discussion, see Warschauer & Grimes,
2007). A number of studies have shown the beneﬁts of using blogs to support
second language writing (Arslan & Şahin-Kızıl, 2010; Bloch, 2007). In one of our
recent studies, we examined the use of blogging to support the reading process. The
study analysed 37 ﬁfth-grade students’ literacy development in a classroom blogging
environment over the course of a school year.Twenty-ﬁve of the thirty-seven students
were designated as English language learners. Students were engaged in reading
and writing connection activities in real-time blogging during twice-a-week 20-minute
sessions. A Web-based live blogging tool, CoverItLive, was embedded into blog
entries to support synchronous online discussions (as shown in Figure 14.2). During
these sessions, students were encouraged to write simultaneously, while one of their
teachers read a chapter aloud or while the whole class watched a video together.
Students’ posts on their blogs in the ﬁrst two months and the last two months of the
school year were selected and analysed to examine students’ literacy development as
reﬂected in their cognitive skills development, degree of interaction, as well as their
sense of audience and authorship.
Cognitive skills development
Using a cognitive analysis model adapted from Henri (1992) and Hara, Bonk and
Angeli (2000), we analysed students’ cognitive skills in ﬁve categories: elementary
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 275
clariﬁcation, in-depth clariﬁcation, inferencing, judgement and application of strategies.
All of the students’ posts from the ﬁrst and last two months of the year were coded
into the most appropriate of the ﬁve above categories.
The results suggested that students used higher-level cognitive skills at the end of
the year as compared to the beginning of the year. Students applied skills of elementary
clariﬁcation (e.g., raising simple questions or describing basic facts) much more in the
ﬁrst two months than in the last two months. Posts involving in-depth clariﬁcation (e.g.,
interpreting information, offering explanations, expressing opinions or brainstorming
ideas) remained at the same level from beginning to end and overall were the most
frequents types of posts at both the beginning and the end of the blogging activity.
The largest growth in types of cognitive skills applied in student posts occurred in
inferencing (e.g, summarizing, making connections, making predictions and reﬂecting)
and in judgement (e.g., indicating substantial agreement or disagreement, evaluating
arguments, offering criticism); the percentage of posts involving these two sets of skills
tripled in the last two months as compared to in the ﬁrst two months. This increased
amount of inferencing and judgement reﬂected a shift from stating simple questions
and basic ideas to making connections, reﬂecting upon reading materials and making
FIGURE 14.2. Interface of ‘CoveritLive’ discussion board. (Used with permission of The
CoverItLiveTM
live-event publishing platform).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
276
comparisons and evaluations. These results align well with previous studies indicating
that deeper cognitive processing occurs among students as their communication
skills grow through participation in online discussions (Hara et al., 2000). Application
of strategies rarely occurred in student posts in our study, which is consistent with
previous research by Garrison et al. (2001). Garrison’s study showed that application of
strategies did not occur among college students, and it is thus not surprising that this
particularly high level of cognitive processing did not occur among ﬁfth-grade students
either.
Teacher–student and student–student interactions
This study’s ﬁndings also suggested that both teacher–student interaction and
student–student interactions facilitated students’ deeper engagement and higher-
order thinking. Analysis of discourse indicated that the teachers constantly
encouraged students to ‘push their thinking’, and use their writing to dig deeper into
the motivations of authors, the meanings of texts and the relationships among texts
and contexts. Over time, a decrease in teacher participation revealed a transformation
from teacher mentoring to peer scaffolding, as students gradually learned, not only
how to write better, but also how to support their peers’ thinking processes. The
following conversation between two students illustrates how students encouraged
each other and how students took the stance of facilitator during their reading and
writing activities:
A: I like the book so far. I think that writing about a little boy who was invisible was
a good topic for the author to pick.
B @ A: Why do you think it is a good topic? Also, what else do you like about the
book because I know there are more than one reason.
A @ B: I think it is a good topic because some people might want to know what
happens and being invisible is cool. I also like the book because I want to know how
well of friends Alisha and Bobby will become. I also like Alisha.
At the beginning, student A only wrote one sentence about why she liked their reading
on that day. Several minutes later, student B replied and pushed her to think more
about why she liked this topic. As a consequence, student A thought more deeply and
wrote another three sentences about the reasons. Student B here took the stance of
facilitator and scaffolded student A’s writing development. This example strengthens
Tierney and Shannahan’s (1991) claim that writing during reading leads to more critical
thinking.
Another example shows how students encouraged each other and how students
took on the role of facilitator. After one student, Tyler, posted a paragraph of
more than 200 words about a topic, many students expressed their compliments
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 277
to him and some also encouraged him to keep it up, as the exchange below
indicates:
Student C@ Tyler: Way to go! Just keep putting things like that up!
Student D@ Tyler: Great Job!!! You are a great writer!
Student E@ Tyler: I think you did a good job. I wish I would write like you Tyler. Nice
job and keep up the good work.
The next day when student Tyler did not participate too much, student C
responded:
Student C@ Tyler: You are on ﬁre with comments the past couple of days and I am
really impressed! But what is your opinion on this book? How do you like it?
In this example, student C took on the stance of a mentor and encouraged peers to
actively participate in the discussion. The teachers did not directly teach students how
to scaffold each other. Rather, students spontaneously learned about scaffolding and
facilitating through apprenticeship and modelling from the teachers. During the process
of interacting with peers and facilitating each other’s thinking, students became more
motivated and engaged, developed more critical thinking skills and gained conﬁdence
in their reading and writing.
Sense of audience and authorship
Furthermore, during the process of blogging about readings, students built a better
sense of how to communicate with an audience through collective examination of
the authoring process. They discussed the strategies of authors that they read, and
actively connected their personal experience with characters in the readings. For
example, when reading a story about how the boy was ignored by his parents when
he was trying to participate in an adult conversation, one student wrote, ‘I have
connection trying to get in a adult conversation. One day this ADT security guy came
over and said about the security and i tryed to go in the conversation but I got ignored
[sic].’ Students discussed the characters in books, related the stories in books with
their own stories, learned from how the authors told stories and strategized about
how this learning would change their own writing. As one student wrote, ‘I really
like how the author use description words. Maybe I can use lots more description
words in my writing [sic].’ Another student added, ‘the author is using actions to tell
the readers that they like each other. Maybe I’ll use that technique in my writing
next time.’ Through these interactive conversations, students appeared to develop
a more critical understanding of what they read, as well as a sense of audience and
authorship in their own writing.This latter point was reﬂected in our study as well; L2
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
278
learners who blogged the most improved their writing the most over the course of
a year.
This study is of course not definitive, but it does offer empirical evidence
that the benefits that seem to be afforded by computer-mediated interaction
for scaffolding reading development (Carico & Logan, 2004; Grisham & Wolsey,
2006) also apply to L2 learners. Indeed in our study, whether measured by growth
in participation throughout the year, or by impact on test score outcomes, L2
learners in the classrooms received the greatest benefits and achieved greater
average gains.
Broader approaches
The above examples indicate the great promise of digital media for supporting L2
reading. At the same time, the examples discussed in this chapter represent only
a fraction of the potential ways that new technologies can support the reading
process. To consider this broader range of possibilities, a useful starting point is
the typology developed by the National Center for Supported eText (Anderson-
Inman & Horney, 2007; see Table 14.1). Though this typology was developed for
general purposes rather than particularly for L2 learning, the digital resources it
discusses are certainly applicable for an L2 setting. These include presentational
resources that enable text and graphics to be presented in varying and customizable
ways; navigational resources that facilitate movement within documents (e.g.,
to glossaries); translational resources that make available alternative versions of
texts such as through VSTF or text-to-speech; explanatory resources that provide
supplemental clariﬁcations or descriptions; illustrative resources that provide visual
support; summarizing resources, such as through presentation of key ideas or
timelines; instructional resources such as tutorial or prompts; notional resources
that enable electronic highlighting or drawing; collaborative resources, such as blogs
or threaded discussions; evaluational resources that provide formative assessments
of student progress.
AsAnderson-Inman and Horney (2007) point out, a good deal of research is necessary
to determine which of these types of resources and in what combinations, are most
valuable with particular types of learners.This will be especially important in new digital
reading environments that potentially combine several of these types of resources.
For example, new types of e-textbooks might include multimedia glossaries, tools
for highlighting, social tools for sharing notes and highlights, use of visual animations
and formative assessments. There is a huge potential for embedding data capturing
tools within these electronic texts so that researchers can better understand which of
these resources students use and how that correlates with reading comprehension,
retention and proﬁciency outcomes.
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 279
TABLE 14.1. Typology of resources for supported eText
Resource Description Examples
Presentational Enables the text and accompanying
graphics to be presented in varying
ways, hence customizable to meet
the needs of individual readers.
Font size and style, text and
background colour, line and
page length, page layout and
juxtaposition with other pages,
graphics in relationship to text.
Navigational Provides tools that allow the reader
to move within a document or
between documents.
Within-document links,
across-document links,
embedded menus, links
from other resources such as
Table of Contents, Glossary,
Bibliography.
Translational Provides a one-to-one equivalent
or simpliﬁed version that is more
accessible or familiar to the reader.
May focus on a word, phrase,
paragraph, picture or whole
document. May be of same or
different modality or media.
Synonyms, deﬁnitions, digitized
or synthesized text-to-speech,
alternate language equivalents
(Spanish), video of American
Sign Language translation,
simpliﬁed version at lower
reading level, text descriptions
for images, captions for video.
Explanatory Provides information that seeks to
clarify the what, where, how, or why
of some concept, object, process
or event.
Clariﬁcations, interpretations,
or descriptions that point
to causes, operations,
components, mechanisms,
parts, methods, procedures,
context or consequences; list
of inﬂuencing factors.
Illustrative Provides a visual representation or
example of something in the text.
Designed to support, supplement or
extend comprehension of the text
through illustrations or examples.
Drawings, photos, simulations,
video, photos, re-enactments,
sounds, music, information that
something is representative
of its type (‘. . . is a typical
example of . . .’).
Summarizing Provides a summarized or
condensed way of viewing some
feature of the document.
Table of contents, concept
map, list of key ideas,
chronology, timeline, cast of
characters, abstract.
Enrichment Provides supplementary information
that is not strictly needed to
comprehend the text, but adds
to the readers’ appreciation or
understanding of its importance or
historical context.
Background information,
publication history, biography
of the author, footnotes,
bibliography, inﬂuence on other
writers.
Continued
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
280
Conclusion
Previously, efforts to improve reading through use of new technologies have been
hampered by a lack of broad access to digital tools and content. Today, however,
with desktop and laptop computers widely available at affordable prices, low-cost
e-readers and tablets expanding into new markets, broadband internet access
ubiquitous in much of the world and a vast array of mass-market and educational
reading material available in digital format, the age of e-reading is fully upon us.
Furthermore, new tools for presenting and scaffolding texts, as well as for facilitating
social interaction around texts, are also available. As this review suggests, the use
of such tools to promote second language reading holds great promise. Given the
need to improve second language reading, as well as the vast array of new CALL
tools available, this will be an important area of further research for many years to
come.
Resource Description Examples
Instructional Provides prompts, questions,
strategies or instruction designed
to teach some aspect of the text or
how to read and interpret the text.
Tutorials, self-monitoring
comprehension questions,
annotations, instructional
prompts, study guides,
embedded study strategies,
online mentoring, tips for
effective reading.
Notational Provides tools for marking or taking
notes on the text to enable later
retrieval for purposes of studying or
completing assignments.
Electronic highlighting,
bookmarking, margin notes,
outlining, drawing. Ways to
gather and group these notes
for post-reading review.
Collaborative Provides tools for working or sharing
with other readers, the author or
some other audience.
Threaded discussion, online
chat, email links, podcasts,
blogs.
Evaluational Provides materials, prompts and
assignments designed to assess
student learning from the text.
Questions, quizzes, tests,
surveys, online interviews,
assignments leading to
products.
Note: Adapted from: Supported eText: Assistive technology through text transformations. In L. Anderson-
Inman & M. A. Horney (2007). Reading Research Quarterly, 42(1), 154. Copyright 2007 by National Center
for Supported eText, University of Oregon.
Evaluational Provides materials, prompts and
assignments designed to assess
student learning from the text.
Questions, quizzes, tests,
surveys, online interviews,
assignments leading to
products.
TABLE 14.1. Cont’d
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 281
References
Abraham, L. B. (2008). Computer-mediated glosses in second language reading
comprehension and vocabulary learning: A meta-analysis. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 21(3), 199–226.
Allen, R. V., & Allen, C. (1976). Language experiences activities. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin.
Al Seghayer, K. (2001). The effect of multimedia annotation modes on L2 vocabulary
acquisition: A comparative study. Language Learning & Technology, 5(1), 202–32.
Anderson, N. J. (1999). Exploring second language reading. Boston, MA: Newbury House.
Anderson-Inman, L., & Horney, M. A. (2007). Supported eText: Assistive technology
through text transformations. Reading Research Quarterly, 42(1), 153–60.
Arslan, R. Ş., & Şahin-Kızıl, A. (2010). How can the use of blog software facilitate the
writing process of English language learners? Computer Assisted Language Learning,
23(3), 183–97
.
Bever, T. G., Jandreau, S., Burwell, R., Kaplan, R., & Zaenen, A. (1990). Spacing printed
text to isolate major phrases improves readability. Visible Language, 25, 74–87
.
Bloch, J. (2007). Abdullah’s blogging: A generation 1.5 student enters the blogosphere.
Language Learning & Technology, 11(2), 128–41.
Bowey, J. A. (1986). Syntactic awareness in relation to reading skill and ongoing reading
comprehension monitoring. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 41(2), 282–99.
Brandl, K. (2005). Are you ready to ‘MOODLE’? Language Learning & Technology, 9(2),
16–23.
Cain, K., Oakhill, J. V., Barnes, M. A., & Bryant, P
. E. (2001). Comprehension skill, inference
making ability and their relation to knowledge. Memory and Cognition, 29, 850–9.
Carico, K. M., & Logan, D. (2004). A generation in cyberspace: Engaging readers through
online discussions. Language Arts, 81(4), 293–302.
Carreira, J. M. (2006). Motivation for learning English as a foreign language in Japanese
elementary schools. JALT Journal, 28(2), 135–58.
Catts, H. W., Fey, M. E., Zhang, X., & Tomblin, J. B. (1999). Language basis of reading and
reading disabilities: Evidence from a longitudinal investigation. Scientiﬁc Studies of
Reading, 3, 331–61.
Chun, D. M. (2011). CALL technologies for L2 reading post Web 2.0. In N. Arnold &
L. Ducate. (Eds.), Present and future promises of CALL: From theory and research to
new directions in language teaching (pp. 131–70). San Marcos, TX: CALICO.
Chun, D. M., & Payne, J. S. (2004). What makes students click: Working memory and
look-up behavior. System, 32(4), 481–503.
Chun, D. M., & Plass, J. L. (1996). Effects of multimedia annotations on vocabulary
acquisition. Modern Language Journal, 80, 183–98.
Colvin-Murphy, C. (1986, December). Enhancing critical comprehension of literacy texts
through writing. Paper presented at the National Reading Conference, Austin, TX.
Cromer, W. (1970). The difference model: A new explanation for some reading difﬁculties.
Journal of Educational Psychology, 61, 671–83.
Cummins, J. (2008). Technology, literacy, and young second language learners: Designing
educational futures. In L. L. Parker (Ed.), Technology-mediated learning environments
for young English learners: Connections in and out of school (pp. 61–98). New York, NY:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Day, R., & Bamford, J. (1998). Extensive reading in the second language classroom.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
282
Demb, J. B., Boynton, G. B., & Heeger, D. J. (1997). Brain activity in the visual cortex
predicts individual differences in reading performance. Proceedings of The National
Academy of Science, 94, 13363–6.
Dowhower, S. L. (1987). Effects of repeated reading on second-grade transitional readers’
ﬂuency and comprehension. Reading Research Quarterly, 22(4), 389–406.
Downes, S. (2004). Educational blogging. EDUCAUSE Review, 39(5), 14–26.
Esser, J. (with Polomski, A.) (1988). Comparing reading and speaking intonation.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Frenck-Mestre, C., & Pynte, J. (1997). Syntactic ambiguity resolution while reading in second
and native languages. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 50A(1), 119–48.
Fuchs, L. S., Fuchs, D., Hosp, M. K., & Jenkins, J. R. (2001). Oral reading ﬂuency as an
indicator of reading competence: A theoretical, empirical, and historical analysis.
Scientiﬁc Studies of Reading, 5(3), 239–56.
Fukkink, R. G., Hulstijn, J., & Simis, A. (2005). Does training of second-language word
recognition skills affect reading comprehension? An experimental study. Modern
Language Journal, 89(1), 54–75.
Garrison, D. R., Anderson, T., & Archer, W. (2001). Critical thinking, cognitive presence, and
computer conferencing in distance education. American Journal of Distance Education,
15(1), 7–23.
Garrod, S. (1992, April). Reconciling the psychological with the linguistic in accounts of
text comprehension. Paper presented at the NORDTEXT symposium, Espoo, Finland.
Gaux, C., & Gombert, J. E. (1999). Implicit and explicit syntactic knowledge and reading in
preadolescents. British Journal of Developmental Psychology, 17(2), 169–88.
Gettys, S., Imhof, L. A., & Kautz, J. O. (2001). Computer-assisted reading: The effect of
glossing format on comprehension and vocabulary retention. Foreign Language Annals,
34(2), 91–106.
Grace, C. A. (1998). Retention of word meaning inferred from context and sentence-level
translations: Implications for the design of beginning-level CALL software. Modern
Language Journal, 82(4), 533–44.
Grisham, D. L., & Wolsey, T. D. (2006). Recentering the middle school classroom as a
vibrant learning community: Students, literacy, and technology intersect. Journal of
Adolescent & Adult Literacy, 49, 648–60.
Hara, N., Bonk, C. J., & Angeli, C. (2000). Content analysis of online discussion in an
applied educational psychology course. Instructional Science, 28(2), 115–52.
Henri, F
. (1992). Computer conferencing and content analysis. In A. R. Kaye (Ed.),
Collaborative learning through computer conferencing: The Najaden papers
(pp. 117–36). New York, NY: Springer.
Hoover, W. A., & Gough, P
. B. (1990). The simple view of reading. Reading and Writing,
2(2), 127–60.
Hu, M., & Nation, I. (2000). Unknown vocabulary density and reading comprehension.
Reading in a Foreign Language, 13(1), 403–30.
Hulstijn, J. H. (2000). The use of computer technology in experimental studies of second
language acquisition: A survey of some techniques and some ongoing studies.
Language Learning & Technology, 3(2), 32–43.
Iwahori, Y. (2008). Developing reading ﬂuency: A study of extensive reading in EFL.
Reading in a Foreign Language, 20(1), 70–91.
Jacobs, J. (2003, July). Communication over exposure: The rise of blogs as a product of
cybervoyeurism. Paper presented at the ANZCA 03, Brisbane, Australia.
Jandreau, S. M., & Bever, T. G. (1992). Phrase-spaced formats improve comprehension in
average readers. Journal of Applied Psychology, 77, 143–6.
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 283
Jandreau, S. M., Muncer, S. J., & Bever, T. G. (1986). Phrase-sensitive formatting. British
Journal of Educational Technology, 17(2), 128–33.
Joshi, R. M., & Aaron, P
. G. (2000). The component model of reading: Simple view of
reading made a little more complex. Reading Psychology, 21(2), 85–97
.
Kim, K., Chin, C., & Goodman, Y. (2004). Revaluing the reading process of adult ESL/EFL
learners through critical dialogues. Colombian Applied Linguistics Journal, (6), 42–57
.
Kim, K. J. (2010). Reading motivation in two languages: An examination of EFL college
students in Korea. Reading and Writing. 24(8), 861–81.
Kitajima, R. (2002). Enhancing higher order interpretation skills for Japanese reading.
CALICO Journal, 19(3), 571–81.
Larkin, J. H., & Simon, H. (1987). Why a diagram is (sometimes) worth ten thousand
words. Cognitive Science, 11, 65–99.
Lawrence, J., & Snow, C. (2010). Oral discourse and reading comprehension. In M. Kamil,
D. Pearson, E. Moje, P
. Aﬂerback & P
. Mosenthal (Eds.), Handbook of reading research.
(Vol. 4, pp. 320–37). London: Routledge.
Lesaux, N., & Siegel, L. (2003). The development of reading in children who speak English
as a second language. Developmental Psychology, 39(6), 1005–19.
LeVasseur V. M., Macaruso, P
., & Shankweiler, D. (2007). Promoting gains in reading
ﬂuency: A comparison of three approaches. Reading and Writing, 21, 205–30.
Li, J. (2010). Learning vocabulary via computer-assisted scaffolding for text processing.
Computer Assisted Language Learning, 23(3), 253–75.
Luke, A., & Freebody, P
. (1999). A map of possible practices: Further notes on the four
resources model. Practically Primary, 4(2), 5–8.
Lyman-Hager, M. A. (2000). Bridging the language-literature gap: Introducing literature
electronically to the undergraduate language student. CALICO Journal, 17(3), 431–52.
Mack, M. (1986). A study of semantic and syntactic processing in monolinguals and ﬂuent
bilinguals. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 15, 463–89.
Marks, M. B., & Taylor, P
. (1966). Reading through better format. The Journal of
Educational Research, 60(4), 147–51.
McBride-Chang, C., & Kail, R. V. (2002). Cross-cultural similarities in the predictors of
reading acquisition. Child development, 73(5), 1392–407
.
Miller, J., & Schwanenﬂugel, P
. J. (2006). Prosody of syntactically complex sentences in
the oral reading of young children. Journal of Educational Psychology, 98(4), 839–53.
Mokhtari, K., & Thompson, H. B. (2006). How problems of reading ﬂuency and
comprehension are related to difﬁculties in syntactic awareness skills among ﬁfth
graders. Reading Research and Instruction, 46(1), 73–94.
Montgomery, S. (2004). Of towers, walls, and ﬁelds: Perspectives on language in science.
Science, 303(5662), 1333–15.
Nation, K., & Snowling, M. J. (2000). Factors inﬂuencing syntactic awareness skills in
normal readers and poor comprehenders. Applied Psycholinguistics, 21, 229–41.
National Center for Educational Statistics (2011). The Nation’s Report Card: NAEP 2009
Year in Review (NCES Number 2011471).
Nystrand, M. (1986). The structure of written communication: Studies in reciprocity
between writers and readers. Orlando, FL: Academic Press.
Oh, S. (2001). Two types of input modiﬁcation and EFL reading comprehension:
Simpliﬁcation versus elaboration. TESOL Quarterly, 35(1), 69–96.
O’Shea, L. J., & Sindelar, P
. T. (1983). The effects of segmenting written discourse on
the reading comprehension of low- and high-performance readers. Reading Research
Quarterly, 18, 458–65.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
284
Palincsar, A. S., & Brown, A. L. (1984). Reciprocal teaching of comprehension-fostering
and comprehension-monitoring strategies. Cognition & Instruction, 1(2), 117–75.
Proctor, C., Dalton, B., Uccelli, P
., Biancarosa, G., Mo, E., Snow, C., & Neugebauer,
S. (2011). Improving comprehension online: Effects of deep vocabulary instruction
with bilingual and monolingual ﬁfth graders. Reading and Writing, 24(5), 517–44.
Rahimi, M. A. (2011). Use of syntactic elaboration techniques to enhance
comprehensibility of EST texts. English Language Teaching, 4(1), 11–17
.
Ravid, D., & Mashraki, Y. E. (2007). Prosodic reading, reading comprehension and
morphological skills in Hebrew-speaking fourth graders. Journal of Research in
Reading, 30(2), 140–56.
Rayner, K., & Sereno, S. (1994). Eye movements in reading: Psycholinguistic studies.
In M. A. Gersbacker (Ed.), Handbook of psycholinguistics (pp. 57–81). San Diego, CA:
Academic Press.
Salvatori, M. (1985). The dialogical nature of basic reading and writing. In D. Bartholomae
& A. Petrosky (Eds.), Facts, artifacts and counterfacts: Theory and method for a reading
and writing course (pp. 137–66). Upper Montclair, NJ: Boynton.
Scarborough, H. (2001). Connecting early language and literacy to later reading (dis)
abilities. In S. B. Neuman & D. K. Dickinson (Eds.), Handbook of early literacy research
(pp. 97–110). New York, NY: Guilford.
Sheu, S. P-H. (2003). Extensive reading with EFL learners at beginning level. TESL
Reporter, 36(2), 8–26.
Shiotsu, T. (2010). Components of L2 reading: Linguistic and processing factors in the
reading test performances of Japanese EFL learners. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Souvignier, E., & Mokhlesgerami, J. (2006). Using self-regulation as a framework for
implementing strategy instruction to foster reading comprehension. Learning and
Instruction, 16, 57–71.
Straub, K. (2009). Kindle2: Crack for readers . . . until you start reading: How text
formatting can ruin (or enhance) the readability and persuasiveness of text. Fairﬁeld, IA:
Human Factors International.
Sung, Y. T., Chang, K. E., & Huang, J. S. (2008). Improving children’s reading
comprehension and use of strategies through computer-based strategy training.
Computers in Human Behavior, 24, 1552–71.
Tanaka, H., & Stapleton, P
. (2007). Increasing reading input in Japanese high school
EFL classrooms: An empirical study exploring the efﬁcacy of extensive reading. The
Reading Matrix, 7(1), 115–31.
Tierney, R., & Shannahan, T. (1991). Research on the reading/writing relationship:
Interactions, transactions, and outcomes. In P
. E. Pearson, M. Barr, & P
. B. Mosenthal
(Eds.), Handbook of reading research (pp. 246–80). New York, NY: Longman.
Tozcu, A., & Coady, J. (2004). Successful learning of frequent vocabulary through CALL
also beneﬁts reading comprehension and speed. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 17(5), 473–96.
Vogel, C. A. (2002). A program evaluation of the Live Ink format. (Unpublished doctoral
dissertation). Denver, CO: University of Denver.
Walker, R., & Vogel, C. (2005, June). Live Ink: Brain-based text formatting raises
standardized test scores. Paper presented at the National Educational Computing
Conference, Philadelphia, PA.
Walker, R., Gordon, A. S., Schloss, P
., Fletcher, C. R., Vogel, C., & Walker, S. (2007
,
October). Visual-syntactic text formatting: Theoretical basis and empirical evidence for
TECHNOLOGY-ENHANCED READING ENVIRONMENTS 285
impact on human reading. Paper presented at the IEEE Professional Communication
Conference, Seattle, WA.
Walker, S., Schloss, P
., Fletcher, C. R., Vogel, C. A., & Walker, R. (2005). Visual-syntactic
text formatting: A new method to enhance online reading. Reading Online, 8(6).
Wang, Y. (2011). The effect of text length on students’ reading comprehension. Theory and
Practice in Language Studies, 1(9), 1160–6.
Warden, C. A., & Lin, H. J. (2000). Existence of integrative motivation in an Asian EFL
setting. Foreign Language Annals, 33(5), 535–45. Retrieved from http://doi.wiley.
com/10.1111/j.1944–9720.2000.tb01997
.x
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2007). Audience, authorship, and artifact: The emergent
semiotics of Web 2.0. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 27(2007), 1–23.
Warschauer, M., & Park, Y. (2012). Re-envisioning reading in English as a foreign language.
JACET-CANTO Journal.
Warschauer, M., Park, Y., & Walker, R. (2011). Transforming digital reading with
visual-syntactic text formatting. The JALT CALL Journal, 7(3), 255–70.
Webb, J. M., Thornton, N. E., Hancock, T. E., & McCarthy, M. T. (1992). Drawing maps from
text: A test of conjoint retention. Journal of General Psychology, 119, 303–13.
White, L. (1989). The adjacency condition on case assignment: Do L2 learners observe
the subset principle? In S. M. Gass & J. Schachter (Eds.), Linguistic perspectives on
second language acquisition (pp. 134–58). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Yanguas, I. (2009). Multimedia glosses and their effect on L2 text comprehension and
vocabulary learning. Language Learning & Technology, 13(2), 48–67
.
Yoshii, M., & Flaitz, J. (2002). Second language incidental vocabulary retention: The effect
of picture and annotation types. CALICO Journal, 20(1), 33–58.
Ziegler, J. C., & Goswami, U. (2005). Reading acquisition, developmental dyslexia, and
skilled reading across languages: A psycholinguistic grain size theory. Psychological
Bulletin, 131(1), 3–29.
15
The role of technology in teaching
and researching writing
Volker Hegelheimer and Jooyoung Lee
Summary
Writing is arguably an essential skill for language learners to be successful,
especially in the context of university studies in the United States. Since the
widespread introduction of the process approach to writing, the emphasis has shifted
from a focus on grammatical accuracy to a focus on organization, development and
expression. Additionally, the process approach to writing prescribes multiple iterations
that include peer and instructor feedback on several drafts. In this chapter, we will
summarize how various technology developments have been used in teaching writing
and discuss the advantages and caveats of such approaches. In particular, we will
outline how technology-assisted writing tools such as automated essay evaluation and
collaborative writing environments have been used in the classroom and highlight the
key ﬁndings from recent research studies.
Introduction
‘Despite the inability to give a deﬁnitive, universal answer to the question “How does
technology affect student writing?” we still pursue an answer’ (Bloch, 2008, p. 2).
Many agree with Bloch (2008) that there is no conclusive evidence that technology has
produced better writers. Just as many, perhaps, would argue that this is not a question
that should be pursued. Rather, the more important question is how technology can (and
should – or should not) effect change in writing practices and in the teaching of writing.
In a special issue of the journal Language Learning & Technology (LLT) published in
2008, various researchers contributed articles dealing with the effect of technology on
writing.They explored issues related to corpus technology (Yoon, 2008), using blogging
to help generate ideas for writing (Kol & Schcolnik, 2008), and automated writing
evaluation (AWE) programs (Chen & Cheng, 2008). In particular, Chen and Cheng’s
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
288
(2008) results as to whether additional feedback iterations provided by AWE programs
can help relieve teachers of some of their tasks and provide enough substance to help
revise essays remain inconclusive. In fact, the results are not unexpected since many
studies on the effectiveness of technology on (improved) writing performance have
equally yielded uncertain results.
Yet, technology continues to be used in daily interactions as well as in teaching
writing. Indeed, in many parts of the world, the use of technology is now integral
to every day living and no longer restricted to privileged countries. Bloch (2008), in
introducing the special issue of LLT, supports this observation by noting that there
was a surprisingly large number of abstracts from EFL contexts, which may be part of
a continuing trend whereby technology gets adopted more rapidly in many different
countries, and that adoption leads to technology use in teaching in general – including
teaching writing. Interestingly, though, Bloch also pointed out that there was minimal
interest in Web 2.0 technologies reﬂected in the abstracts submitted for the special
issue. Keeping in mind that the special issues was published in 2008, research for these
papers was conducted at a time when Web 2.0 technologies were perhaps (a) not as
common as they are in 2012 and (b) many users employed these technologies for
personal (i.e., social networking) purposes and not necessarily for writing (or writing
instruction).
Another aspect is the prevalence of dissimilarities with regard to the teaching
of writing to native speakers versus language learners. We see a much higher
proﬁciency level and a focus on obtaining writing skills to succeed in their jobs for
the former and lower proﬁciency levels with a focus on either getting into a university
or obtaining skills to make it through the university classes without receiving a
penalty for ‘non-native’ essays and lab reports for the latter group. Consequently,
there is more of a debate on whether grammar and word level errors should receive
attention within the ESL/EFL community than within the group of L1 composition
researchers.
Yet, CALL and writing have arguably come a long way in the last decade. In the early
days, learners were able to type a word on a computer and the notion of copying, pasting
and editing changed writing pedagogy. Now, the range of ever expanding possibilities
is staggering. In addition, being able to receive various types of feedback on a word
or a sentence (e.g., synonyms/antonyms, translation, deﬁnition, pronunciation, usage,
pictorial depiction, etc.), writers can also rely on constant lexical and grammatical
‘supervision’ in all major word-processing applications.
As with all technologies – be it CALL for writing, listening or reading – teachers play
a crucial role in introducing the technology and helping students use it appropriately.
Writing, however, is a skill most language learners, particularly those in an ESL context
wanting to secure employment, work on even after completing their language courses
as it is an essential skill in the job market.To help teachers identify and interpret aspects
suggested by research ﬁndings, Chapelle and Jamieson (2008, p. 95) outline six tips
for teaching writing with CALL:
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 289
1 Select appropriate writing texts as models;
2 Choose CALL programs that teach genre as well as linguistic knowledge and
strategies;
3 Teach learners how to beneﬁt in terms of interactive help and feedback when
using computers;
4 Create learners’ opportunities to expand knowledge of English through writing
and to write for a real audience;
5 Include explicit evaluation;
6 Help learners develop their writing strategies.
First, it is important to select appropriate writing texts as models. Asking students
to read and write texts they will never encounter in their life outside of the language
course they are taking is not recommended. This applies to the writing genre and to
the level of writing. CALL can help by providing appropriate and relevant texts that can
serve as models for language learners.
Second, Chapelle and Jamieson recommend choosing CALL activities that teach
genre as well as linguistic knowledge and strategies. Following Swales’ (1991)
discovery of speciﬁc ‘moves’ within research articles, they argue that it is important
to explicitly teach these conventions ‘through examination of the language used to
accomplish speciﬁc purposes’ (p. 101).Teachers can use CALL programs that highlight
speciﬁc forms as required by the genre of writing. For example, Chapelle and Jamieson
highlight the CALL program ‘Click into English’, which is meant to help learners write
postcards using only essential words and forms.
A third aspect revolves around learner training. More speciﬁcally, learners need to be
taught how to beneﬁt from interactive help and feedback from the computer. Learners
often get inundated with automated help and feedback and teachers must be able to
discern feedback that is helpful at a particular time from feedback that is not.Therefore,
Chapelle and Jamieson argue, ‘teacher guidance is essential’ (p. 106), especially when
using more advanced writing tools such as AWE tools such as MY Access! (by Vantage
Learning) or Criterion (by ETS). However, guidance is needed even for more common
word processing applications like MS Word.
The fourth tip is to create opportunities to expand knowledge of English through
writing and to write for a real audience. A key aspect needed for the development
of language ability is the opportunity to use the language for a meaningful task. In
the case of writing, this means being able to write for a real and expanded audience
beyond the classroom teacher. CALL tools that support this include wikis (Raith, 2009)
and other shareable documents (via technologies such as GoogleDocs).This, however,
also leads to a change in the role the teacher plays as a facilitator, which at times can
be an issue as students are not used to teachers occupying that role and often want
them to be more directing and instructing.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
290
Explicit evaluation, tip number ﬁve, and feedback has been identiﬁed as a factor
that positively inﬂuences student learning (Skehan, 1998). Furthermore, knowing that
their writing will be evaluated leads to other aspects that enhance learning, that is,
planning and self-correction, which Crookes (1989) has pointed out as being beneﬁcial.
CALL programs do provide feedback ranging from MS Word-type feedback to speciﬁc
feedback from automated writing evaluation tools (e.g., Criterion). The key is to help
learners understand how to make use of the feedback they receive. However, much
more research is needed as we see a growing use of AWE tools in writing instruction.
How to best use such tools needs to be investigated.
Sixth, teachers are charged with helping learners develop their writing strategies.
It is important for writers to be able to evaluate the purpose and the audience
and to evaluate if the goals have been achieved. Without this, the ultimate goal of
self-sufﬁciency as a writer cannot be met. Writing strategies fall into three categories
(psychological, sociological and linguistic) and CALL programs are able to provide
teachers with assistance with the development of all three strategies. Further
evaluation of CALL writing tools and approaches should involve looking at whether
these tips are integrated.
In the remainder of this chapter, we examine two prevalent technologies that have
taken a (at times controversial) foothold in writing instruction, automated writing
evaluation tools and collaborative writing environments, and discuss them in terms of
current practice, merits and additional research requirements.
Automated writing evaluation
Automated scoring systems evaluate essays and provide feedback by identifying
relevant linguistic evidence in essays and then analyse and combine it in a way
that approximates human scoring based on language recognition technologies and
statistical procedures (Chapelle & Chung, 2010). Such systems have drawn the
attention of English teachers and researchers due to a combination of increased
affordability (i.e., relatively low per student cost) and the promise of reduced amounts
of time spent correcting errors in student writing. At the same time, however, some
researchers are decidedly pessimistic about such approaches, arguing that machines
cannot perform as well as human raters. CCCC (2006), for instance, rejected machine
scoring for any assessment purpose and launched harsh criticisms, mainly arguing
that ‘while AWEs may promise consistency, they distort the very nature of writing
as a complex and context-rich interaction between people’ (Guiding Principles
of Assessment, para. 2). However, given that the use of technology in the ﬁeld of
language education is an irreversible trend and that AWE not only has gone through
signiﬁcant reﬁnements since its ﬁrst appearance about 50 years ago but also was
found to help students revise and improve their writing (e.g., Chodorow, Gamon &
Tetreault, 2010; Cotos, 2011; Grimes & Warschauer, 2006), it is worth examining its
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 291
current use in the language classroom as well as the relevant research ﬁndings and
considering the way such applications may best beneﬁt ESL/EFL students.
Current practice
Althoughautomatedscoringenginesremainunderconstantrevision,somestandardized
exams already use them as a second rater to complement human scoring. For instance,
the Analytic Writing Section of both Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT)
and Graduate Record Examination (GRE) as well as the independent writing task of the
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) has been using e-rater as one of the two
raters. E-rater, developed by the EducationalTesting Service (ETS), evaluates grammar,
style, organization and lexical complexity of the essay and then produces a holistic
score based on regression analysis. The Analytical Writing portion of the GMAT has
also employed IntelliMetric to evaluate cohesiveness, content and logic of discourse
as well as syntactic variety and accuracy. Besides e-rater and IntelliMetric, there are
other scoring engines such as PEG, IEA and BETSY, and different systems focus
on and assess different aspects of writing based on different statistical approaches
(Chapelle & Chung, 2010; see Warschauer & Ware, 2006, for an overview of various
AWE tools).
The use of AWE systems in such high-stakes exams has been justiﬁed and
supported by psychometric studies, which show that machines can rate as well as
human raters do. The majority of these studies endorse the validity of AWE programs
by demonstrating high correlations between the scores given by machines and
human raters. Although different systems show different correspondence rates, they
generally range from 0.80 to 0.85 (Cohen, Ben-Simon & Hovav, 2003), which is similar
to those between two expert human raters. Another line of psychometric research
also demonstrates, by examining criterion-related validity, that the scores given by
the machine and those by other measures of the same writing construct are strongly
correlated (Dikli, 2006; Keith, 2003; Phillips, 2007). Finally, some studies investigated
the reliability of the scoring engines by examining the scores assigned to multiple
essays of the same examinee and found, for instance, that the reliability of e-rater is
higher than that of a single human rater and fairly equivalent to the average of two
human raters (Attali & Burstein, 2006).
Based on such encouraging ﬁndings in psychometric research, the use of AWE
programs in the language classroom has received some attention (Dikli, 2006; Phillips,
2007; Valenti, Nitko & Cucchiarelli, 2003). In addition, given that programs such as
Criterion, My Access and WriteToLearn (see Warschauer & Grimes, 2008) can provide
not only ﬁnal numerical scores but also evaluative feedback for various aspects of
writing, thus helping learners revise initial drafts, their incorporation into classroom
instruction seems promising. As Warschauer and Ware (2006) pointed out, however,
positive ﬁndings based on statistical estimates are necessary conditions for adopting
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
292
software in the classroom, but they are not sufﬁcient ones. Instead, we need to evaluate
the validity and usefulness of AWE programs in the context of classroom dynamics
including students and teachers’ learning/teaching styles and their willingness to
use them. We also need to judge the appropriateness of the feedback given by such
programs in light of pedagogical contexts such as the lesson goals and speciﬁcity and
explicitness of the feedback.
Fortunately, an increasing number of pedagogically oriented AWE studies have
recently been conducted (Grimes &Warschauer, 2010).The ﬁrst strand of research shows
whether and how much AWE programs contribute to improving student writing. Elliot
and Mikulas (2004), for example, had one group of students use My Access 4–5 times a
week, a second group use it 2–3 times a week and a third group not use it. The results
indicate that those who took advantage of My Access passed a district writing test more
often than those who did not. Interestingly, however, the medium-use group exhibited
better results than the high-use one. On the other hand, some researchers compared
the ﬁrst and last draft of student writing and found that feedback given by Criterion
and ESL Assistant helped students reduce article and preposition errors to a signiﬁcant
extent (Chodorow, Gamon &Tetreault, 2010). In addition to grammatical and mechanical
aspects, AWE feedback was also found to encourage students to make corrective
modiﬁcations in terms of rhetorical development in academic writing (Cotos, 2011) as
well as write a more insightful and creative essay (Grimes & Warschauer, 2006).
A second strand of pedagogical research shows how such AWE programs are
actually employed by students and teachers in the classroom. For instance, Attali (2004)
observed that nearly seven out of ten students submitted their essay only once without
further modiﬁcation although AWE software was available and it was originally meant
to motivate and guide subsequent revisions. On the other hand, some teachers use
AWE software not for encouraging multiple revisions as a part of process writing, but
for practising timed essay writing to get students prepared for high-stakes exams.
A third line of studies explores the relationship between the (perceived) effectiveness
of AWE and diverse instructional contexts. The implementation of AWE was not
perceived positively when the program was used in the later stages of writing process
or when it was not complemented by teacher feedback (Chen & Cheng, 2008). Also,
teachers’ basic attitude towards AWE and their familiarity with using technology as
well as students’ learning styles and goals determine its effectiveness to a great extent
(Chen & Cheng, 2008). In addition, students’ prior experience of and familiarity with
technologies also showed a close relationship with the frequency of using AWE and its
perceived helpfulness (Grimes & Warschauer, 2006).
Merits and caveats
As software developers claim, AWE programs indeed help students revise their writing
and contribute to improved quality by providing individualized corrective feedback
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 293
about diverse aspects of writing (e.g., Chodorow, Gamon & Tetreault, 2010; Cotos,
2011; Grimes & Warschauer, 2006). In addition, the mere presence of such programs
as well as the availability of instant feedback increases students’ motivation to write
a good paper, making them view their work more critically and seriously revise it
before ﬁnal submission (Grimes & Warschauer, 2006). On the part of teachers, the
programs constitute a teaching assistant helping an extraordinarily time-consuming
job of providing individual feedback on multiple drafts for many students (Warschauer
& Ware, 2006).
At the same time, however, it is not without problems. AWE programs currently
available were found to be good at providing feedback with respect to grammatical
and mechanical elements, but were not promising as far as content and organization
are concerned. Criterion, for instance, provides accurate and speciﬁc feedback about
grammar problems such as article errors, subject-verb agreement problems, run-on
sentences and spelling but only offers very generic comments about organization and
development; for example,
Is this part of the essay your thesis? The purpose of a thesis is to organize, predict,
control, and deﬁne your essay. Look in the Writer’s Handbook for ways to improve
your thesis. (Criterion feedback)
This is probably why few previous studies discuss the improvement of student writing
at the content or discourse level. Another caveat that teachers should keep in mind is
that students using AWE software may write for the ‘machine’, which is against the
very social and interactive nature of writing. Unless learners do not have additional
readers such as teachers, friends or readers outside the classroom, they may lose a
sense of audience and end up writing a formulaic essay.
Important considerations and future research
In addition to the advantages and caveats of using AWE programs suggested above,
teachers need to carefully consider course objectives when deciding whether to
incorporate them into writing instruction or which AWE software to use. As different
programs evaluate different aspects of writing as well as provide different types of
feedback, teachers need to judge if what is evaluated by algorithms aligns with what
is covered in the lesson as well as if the types of feedback given by a particular AWE
program are appropriate for the level of target students.
In order to help teachers make an informed decision about the use of AWE, more
research is needed. Considering that the validity should be discussed based on the
uses of and inferences made from the test scores and that no test is valid for all
purposes or in all situations (Kane, 2006; Messick, 1989), the validity of AWE also needs
to be discussed in the context of particular classrooms. Therefore, future studies are
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
294
expected to investigate and evaluate the use of diverse AWE programs with students,
teachers and classes from various linguistic, social and cultural backgrounds. In doing
so, research methods also need to be diversiﬁed to obtain more comprehensive
ﬁndings so that they include detailed and qualitative analysis of student drafts,
classroom observations, think-aloud protocols, video documentation and ethnographic
studies in addition to surveys, interviews and quantitative comparison of multiple
drafts in terms of holistic score and error correction rate. A series of such studies is
underway at several research universities (e.g., Iowa State University). Last but not
least, longitudinal research is also required to see if the evaluative feedback offered
by AWE software has a lasting effect to subsequent writing and ultimately, second/
foreign language learning. A second area of interests to teachers, learners and CALL
researchers dealing with writing is the rapidly growing realm of collaborative writing
environments.
Collaborative writing environments
Since around 2005 the emergence of Web 2.0 and social media have added a
participatory and collaborative dimension to the internet, turning it into a social Web
(Brown & Adler, 2008; Richardson, 2006; Tan, 2011). These technologies not only
transform how we interact with others in everyday life but also provide second/
foreign language learners with new ways to engage in collaborative practices
(Thomas, 2009), particularly in relation to writing. Since content on Web 2.0 is
created by users/consumers, learners can take advantage of that space to practise
and post their writings. In addition, this newly added dimension enables learners to
practise writing in collaboration with other students. Furthermore, as Warschauer
(1997) predicted 15 years ago, computer-mediated communication (CMC) has the
potential to shift our focus from form to the meaning of language. As all of these
changes are pertinent to the process writing approach, the predominant approach
to writing instruction, CMC tools deserve further attention. In this subsection,
therefore, we will ﬁrst examine the use of these technologies in current classrooms
and the advantages and caveats of such approaches, as well as provide suggestions
for teachers and future research.
Current practice
The new technologies include both synchronous and asynchronous tools such as blogs,
wikis, chat, MSN, Blackboard and whiteboard, among which wikis and blogs are more
extensively used in the classroom and have received considerable attention (Elola &
Oskoz, 2010; Kessler, 2009; Kost, 2011; Murray & Hourigan, 2008; Raith, 2009; Ward,
2004). Although the discussion on collaboration often focuses on the revision process,
more recent studies have begun to investigate how these tools aid the brainstorming
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 295
and planning stages of writing as well. According to Kost (2011), for instance, some
students used MSN for content brainstorming while others used a separate wiki page
for the same purpose. According to Kost (2011), students took advantage of MSN
and wikis to brainstorm ideas and create an outline with their group members. In this
process, some groups collaboratively made an outline for the entire paper whereas
other groups discussed only the main points together and then worked individually
on the supporting details. It was also observed that some students inserted links to
useful resources such as online dictionaries and grammar references. Without any
speciﬁc guidelines or regulations, students demonstrated various ways of engaging in
the initial stages of process writing.
With regard to actually composing a draft, students were required to either write
an essay individually or submit one essay as a group. Even in the former case,
however, collaboration among peers was required in the process of revision. Without
detailed guidelines prescribed by teachers, different groups demonstrated different
collaboration patterns. Sometimes, students did not collaborate at all. In fact, Bradley,
Lindstrom and Rystedt (2010) reported that other classmates never visited several
essays posted on the class wiki. On other occasions, students mechanically took turns
to complete a draft (Bradley et al., 2010), or they divided up their roles at the beginning
according to each person’s strength (Bradley et al., 2010; Forsyth, 1999; Kost, 2011).
That is, students with better grammar tended to assume the role of editor while the
others focused on content for the initial draft. Findings indicated that only a few groups
worked in a truly collaborative manner.
When it comes to revision, students provided peer feedback in the blog by leaving
a meta-comment next to the relevant part of the essay, adding or deleting a text, or
giving a general ﬁnal comment regarding whether the arguments were feasible and
well communicated, the last of which was found to the most common strategy as it
provides an easy exit from the task (Bradley et al., 2010). However, making clariﬁcations
of already posted ideas was not a frequent type of feedback because direct editing is
impossible in the blog, and therefore, even teachers had to give detailed language
feedback on a separate piece of paper (Bradley et al., 2010). On the other hand, Elola and
Oskoz’s (2010) compared individual and collaborative writing via wiki and chat in terms
of students’ revision process. Interestingly, while writing individually, students focused
on grammar in the revision and they tended to add extra information to improve their
essay. Moreover, they also ﬂeshed out the paragraph around the established thematic
sentence deﬁned in the ﬁrst draft rather than changing the topic sentence. In terms
of the thesis statement and supporting evidence of the entire essay and conclusion,
learners constantly modiﬁed their essay. In contrast, while working collaboratively,
students tended to reduce the amount of content and searched for ways to express
existing ideas more precisely. In addition, they decided on a macro structure of the
essay including a thesis and conclusion of the entire essay at the beginning of their
joint work and followed through, but made major and minor modiﬁcations at the
paragraph level in the course of elaborating the content. Moreover, those who worked
collaboratively paid attention to grammar and vocabulary throughout the whole writing
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
296
process, whereas those who worked individually did the editing job predominantly in
the ﬁnal draft.
As far as students’ focus in the revision process is concerned, some researchers
found that learners still pay more attention to grammar or linguistic form on Web 2.0
technologies (Arnold, Ducate & Kost, 2009; Bradley et al., 2010; Kost, 2011; Lee, 2010),
and word choice and spelling received the most attention according to Lee (2010). Also,
form-related errors are usually identiﬁed by peers rather than the original writer, and
it appears to be easier to discuss and reﬂect on form-related errors in asynchronous
online spaces than in synchronous ones as they allow greater time for learner reﬂection
(Kessler, 2009). However, other researchers argue that learners tend to focus more on
global concerns such as content and organization than on grammar in Web 2.0-based
writing (Elola & Oskoz, 2010; Hewett, 2006; Kessler, 2009; Murray & Hourigan, 2008),
and that unless a grammatical error hinders communication, it is normally ignored
(Elola & Oskoz, 2010; Kessler, 2009). Some of them further point out that even if
teachers required students to focus on form rather than meaning while providing peer
feedback, they paid more attention to content (Kessler, 2009; Storch, 2005). Although
students exchange comments on content and organization not only in asynchronous
tools but also in synchronous ones such as chat, MSN and whiteboard, they preferred
the latter (chat) to the former (wiki) when they were given both tools at the same time
(Elola & Oskoz, 2010).
Advantages and disadvantages
Many researchers generally report that such collaborative effort resulted in higher
quality papers, especially in terms of content development (Arnold et al., 2009;
Kessler, 2009; Lee, 2010) and organization (Elola & Oskoz, 2010). As Wells (2000) and
Swain (2000) note, learners can jointly construct a performance that surpasses their
individual competence. With respect to linguistic form, however, prior studies report
uncompromising ﬁndings. For instance, Storch (2005) argued that collaborative texts
were better in terms of grammatical accuracy and complexity compared with individual
writing, whereas Kessler (2009) found that 48% of word choice revisions resulted in
an erroneous correction.
Perhaps most importantly, it is students who report several advantages of
collaborative writing. With respect to the effect of collaborative writing on learner
anxiety, some students reported that they felt less pressure when completing a
writing assignment in pairs or groups because it enabled them to share the workload,
thus reducing their burden (Mulligan & Garofalo, 2011). Also, peer feedback was
viewed to be less intimidating than teacher feedback (Lee, 2010). This is not the case
for all learners, however. Some students felt very nervous about their classmates
looking at their writing although they did not feel embarrassed about their work being
examined and evaluated by teachers who are assumed to have superior knowledge
(Storch, 2005). In addition, some students were not comfortable with criticizing their
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 297
peers’ work and pointing out their mistake as they viewed it as a face-threatening
activity (Dippold, 2009; Hyland & Hyland, 2006). Interestingly, however, the account of
embarrassment and discomfort was normally reported from the learners of particular
cultures (Japanese and Chinese in particular) (Nelson & Carson, 1998; Storch, 2005). A
collaborative writing approach also inﬂuences learners’ identity. As learners were able
to reach a real and wider audience beyond the teacher, they began to see writing not
merely as an assignment but as a purposeful communicative activity, and accordingly
they viewed themselves as multilingual/multicultural speakers as well as language
learners (Blake, 2008). Furthermore, with traditional assignments that require each
student to write on a piece of paper, students have always been an individual writer,
but with the new type of assignments that encourages several students to complete
one paper collaboratively, they began to develop a sense of co-authorship (Elola &
Oskoz, 2010).
Such an awareness of the audience may inﬂuence learners’ sense of responsibility,
which encourages them to start writing earlier and faster as well as to generate more
content (Kost, 2011). Sharing their own drafts with peers raises a sense of audience,
which motivates learners to write a high-quality paper (Lee, 2010; Ward, 2004) and
examine their essay from a critical point of view, anticipating readers’ response (Dippold,
2009; Nicol & Macfarlane-Dick, 2006; Rolliston, 2005). Moreover, collaboration among
peers not only helps students learn from each other by noticing the gap (Kost, 2011; Lee,
2010) but also develop learner autonomy as the process is more student-centred. That
is, each group can decide when and how to write and they can decide on the format
of the ﬁnal draft (Dippold, 2009; Lee, 2010). Finally, the experience of jointly writing an
essay helps students learn what co-ownership means and how to incorporate plural
voices into one single essay (Mishan, 2004; Murray & Hourigan, 2008).
This type of collaborative writing, however, is not without complaints from the
students. Most of them preferred individual work due to the difﬁculties inherent in
collaboration, that is, the rather cumbersome procedure of reaching agreement and
resolving disagreement (Elola & Oskoz, 2010; Lee, 2010). In addition, learners do not
feel comfortable with providing peer feedback not only because they lack conﬁdence
in detecting lexical and grammatical errors (Dippold, 2009; Hyland & Hyland, 2006;
Lee, 2009), but also because they are reluctant to threaten others’ face by correcting
errors or deleting sentences in their essays (Dippold, 2009; Liu & Carless, 2006).
Furthermore, they value teacher feedback more than peer feedback because the latter
neither pinpoints what types of errors are involved nor provides speciﬁc suggestions.
Important considerations and future research
Writing in Web 2.0 environments was generally reported to produce positive results,
not only promoting process writing and collaboration with peers, but also in terms of
students’ focus on content and organization as well as grammar. Differences were
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
298
observed across different studies, however, in terms of collaboration patterns while
brainstorming and writing an initial draft, speciﬁc methods of delivering comments,
aspects of writing receiving students’ attention in revision and success rate of revision
effort. That is, in most research contexts, teachers did not provide detailed enough
guidelines about how to use wikis or blogs. As a result, different groups used the tools
differently, which led to varying success rates. These anomalies may be attributed
to different instructional contexts in various classes, a point which deserves further
attention in order for teachers to make informed decisions rather than indiscriminately
implementing collaborative writing based on new tools merely to follow recent
trends.
To begin with, teachers should consider the goal of their writing lessons, especially
the genre of essay. Since the online environment is often perceived as an informal
context and exhibits low-impact in terms of errors (Kessler, 2009), it might not be the
best environment for learning formal and academic writing. In addition, collaborative
writing is not ideal for practising particular types of writing such as book reviews,
which highly value individual judgement over collective thoughts (Tan, 2011).
Second, writing tasks should be carefully selected and designed because it is not
the technology itself, but the nature of the tasks that eventually promotes a high level
of interaction (Lund, 2008). In line with this, Lee (2007) suggests that open-ended and
problem-oriented tasks give students more opportunities to collaborate with peers.
Third, teachers should be able to choose the most appropriate tools for their
purpose. For instance, a blog is good for providing general comments but not for
detailed linguistic feedback. In contrast, wikis provide a suitable environment for
ﬁne-tuning comments or revision as anyone can directly edit content. On the other
hand, synchronous environments including chat, MSN and Whiteboard are ideal for
macro-level discussion such as brainstorming, topic development and the overall
structure of the essay rather than micro-level issues such as grammar, vocabulary and
minor editing.
Fourth, teachers should take into account students’ learning style and personality.
Even though an online space provides a perfect environment for collaboration, the
collaboration may not occur in a pedagogical setting. That is to say, as Kessler (2009)
notes, such a system can only work with learners who are serious about collaborating
and willing to follow agreed group conventions and practices.
Fifth, teachers need to reconsider their roles when implementing this new approach
of teaching writing. Given that there is very little follow-up interaction when teachers
take a back seat (Prins, Sluijsmans, Kirschner & Strijbos, 2005), they need to offer
explicit guidelines regarding how to give, use and react to the feedback (Dippold,
2009). In addition, considering that feedback from peers is unevenly distributed, which
can affect learners’ motivation to further revise and collaborate (Catera & Emigh,
2005), it is also the teacher’s job to teach learners how to direct peers to issues where
feedback is needed (Baggentun & Wasson, 2006). Furthermore, if the teacher is also
to intervene and provide feedback, when to do so should constitute another important
consideration given Dippold’s (2009) study in which the teacher’s earlier feedback
dramatically reduced peer involvement.
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 299
Last but not least, assessing students’ writing becomes more complicated under
the collaborative approach especially when they are asked to submit one ﬁnal product
as a group. Since everyone depends on another person for their grade (Elola & Oskoz,
2010), assessment may be a sensitive issue among students. In addition, on the part of
teachers, it is not always easy to determine how much each group member contributed
to the writing process. Furthermore, it is up to teachers whether to grade only the ﬁnal
product or to evaluate the whole process.
Despite a very close relationship between these instructional contexts and the
success of collaborative writing via Web 2.0, many questions remain unanswered.This
relationship deserves further attention in future research so that teachers can make an
informed decision regarding how to incorporate available technologies in the teaching
of writing.
Conclusions
In this chapter, we have highlighted research in the areas of automated writing
evaluation and collaborative writing and outlined more generally construed tips for
teaching writing with technology.Technology has played and will continue to play a role
in writing instruction. What that role is depends on various factors, including access
to technology, administrative mandates and teacher and student goals. It remains
important to integrate technology prudently and cautiously and to train teachers and
students to recognize what various CALL applications can do and how they may be
of assistance in students’ writing development and, more importantly, what these
applications cannot do or where ﬂaws may exist and thus not enhance writing.
Even then, language learning potential lies in students being able to recognize that
automatically generated feedback on their writing cannot always be trusted.The bigger
question, however, is to see if the feedback can lead to increased writing proﬁciency
and learner autonomy. The potential of automated writing evaluation systems and
collaborative writing tools remains signiﬁcant. Longitudinal studies following students
and teachers of actual writing classrooms will be able to shed light on the effects of the
approaches to writing outlined in this chapter. We especially encourage case studies
researching on-going (post-instruction) development of ESL writers and learner use
of various technology tools to help identify useful technology-integration-in-writing-
instruction models.
References
Arnold, N., Ducate, L., & Kost, C. (2009). Collaborative writing in wikis. In L. Lomicka,
& G. Lord (Eds.), The next generation: Social networking and online collaboration in
foreign language learning. CALICO Monograph Series, 8, 115–44.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
300
Attali, Y. (2004). Exploring the feedback and revision features of Criterion. Paper presented
at the National Council on Measurement in Education Annual Meeting, San Diego, CA.
Attali, Y., & Burnstein, J. (2006). Automated essay scoring with e-rater® V.2.0. Journal of
Technology, Learning, and Assessment, 4(3). Retrieved from www.jtla.org
Baggetun, R., & Wasson, B. (2006). Self-regulated learning and open writing. European
Journal of Education, 41(3–4), 453–72.
Blake, R. J. (2008). Brave new digital classroom: Technology and foreign language
learning. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Bloch, J. (2008). Technologies in the second language composition classroom. Ann Arbor:
University of Michigan Press.
Bradley, L., Lindstrom, B., & Rystedt, H. (2010). Rationalities of collaboration for language
learning in a wiki. ReCALL, 22(2), 247–65.
Brown, S., & Adler, R. P
. (2008). Minds on ﬁre: Open education, the long trail, and learning
2.0. Educause Review, 43(1), 16–32.
Catera, E., & Emigh, R. (2005). Blogs, the virtual soapbox. Essential Teacher, 2(3), 46–9.
CCCC (2006). Position statement on writing assessment. Retrieved from www.ncte.org/
cccc/resources/positions/writingassessment
Chapelle, C. A., & Chung, Y. R. (2010). The promise of NLP and speech processing
technologies in language assessment. Language Testing, 27(3), 301–15.
Chapelle, C. A., & Jamieson, J. (2008). Tips for teaching with CALL: Practical approaches
to computer-assisted language learning. New York: Pearson-Longman.
Chen, C. E., & Cheng, W. E. (2008). Beyond the design of automated writing evaluation:
Pedagogical practices and perceived learning effectiveness in EFL writing classes.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(2), 94–112.
Chodorow, M., Gamon, M., & Tetreault, J. (2010). The utility of article and preposition
error correction systems for English language learners: Feedback and assessment.
Language Testing, 27(3), 419–36.
Cohen, Y., Ben-Simon, A., & Hovav, M. (2003, October). The effect of speciﬁc language
features on the complexity of systems for automated essay scoring. Paper presented
at the International Association of Educational Assessment Annual Conference,
Manchester.
Cotos, E. (2011). Potential of automated writing evaluation feedback. CALICO Journal,
28(2), 420–59.
Crookes, G. (1989). Planning and interlanguage variation. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition, 11, 367–83.
Dikli, S. (2006). An overview of automated scoring of essays. The Journal of Technology,
Learning, and Assessment, 5(1), 3–35.
Dippold, D. (2009). Peer feedback through blogs: Student and teacher perceptions in an
advanced German class. ReCALL, 21(1), 18–36.
Elliot, S., & Mikulas, C. (2004, April). The impact of MY Access! use on student writing
performance: A technology overview and four studies. Paper presented at the annual
meeting of the American Educational Research Association, San Diego, CA.
Elola, I., & Oskoz, A. (2010). Collaborative writing: Fostering foreign language and writing
conventions development. Language Learning & Technology, 14(3), 51–71.
Forsyth, D. R. (1999). Group dynamics. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing.
Grimes, D., & Warschauer, M. (2006, April). Automated essay scoring in the classroom. Paper
presented at the American Educational Research Association, San Francisco, California.
— (2010). Utility in a Fallible Tool: A Multi-Site Case Study of Automated Writing
Evaluation. Journal of Technology, Learning, and Assessment, 8(6). Retrieved (2012,
July 12) from www.jtla.org
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY 301
Hewett, B. (2006). Synchronous online conference-based instruction: A study of
whiteboard interactions and student writing. Computers and Composition, 23, 4–31.
Hyland, F
., & Hyland, K. (2006). State of the art article: Feedback on second language
students’ writing. Language Teaching, 39, 83–101.
Kane, M. (2006). Validation. In R. Brennan (Ed.), Educational measurement (4th ed.,
pp. 17–64). Washington, DC: American Council on Education and National Council on
Measurement in Education.
Keith, T. Z. (2003). Validity of automated essay scoring systems. In M. D. Shermis &
J. C. Burstein (Eds.), Automated essay scoring: A cross-disciplinary perspective
(pp. 147–207). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Kessler, G. (2009). Student-initiated attention to form in wiki-based collaborative writing.
Language learning & Technology, 13(1), 79–95.
Kol, S., & Schcolnik, M. (2008). Asynchronous forums in EAP: Assessment issues.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(2), 49–70.
Kost, C. (2011). Investigating writing strategies and revision behavior in collaborative wiki
projects. CALICO Journal, 28(3), 606–20.
Lee, L. (2007). Fostering L2 oral communication through constructivist interaction in
desktop videoconferencing. Foreign Language Annals, 40, 635–49.
— (2009). Promoting intercultural exchanges with blogs and podcastings: A study of
Spanish-American telecollaboration. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 22(5), 425–43.
— (2010). Exploring wiki-mediated collaborative writing: A case study in an elementary
Spanish course. CALICO Journal, 27(2), 260–76.
Liu, N., & Carless, D. (2006). Peer feedback: The learning element of peer assessment.
Teaching in Higher Education, 11(3), 279–90.
Lund, A. (2008). Wikis: A collective approach to language production. ReCALL, 20(1),
35–54.
Messick, S. (1989). Validity. In R. L. Linn (Ed.), Educational measurement (3rd ed.,
pp. 13–103). New York: Macmillan.
Mishan, F
. (2004). A task-based approach to Web authoring for learning languages. In A.
Chambers, J. E. Conacher & J. Littlemore (Eds.), ICT and language learning: Integrating
pedagogy and practice (pp. 121–44). Birmingham: University of Birmingham Press.
Mulligan, C., & Garofalo, R. (2011). A collaborative writing approach: Methodology and
student assessment. The Language Teacher, 35(3), 5–10.
Murray, L., & Hourigan, T. (2008). Blogs for speciﬁc purposes: Expressivist or
socio-cognitivist approach? ReCALL, 20(1), 82–97
.
Nelson, G., & Carson, J. G. (1998). ESL students’ perceptions of effectiveness in peer
response groups. Journal of Second Language Writing, 7(2), 113–31.
Nicol, D., & Macfarlane-Dick, D. (2006). Formative assessment and self-regulated learning:
A model and seven principles of good feedback practice. Studies in Higher Education,
31(2), 199–218.
Phillips, S. M. (2007). Automated essay scoring: A literature review. Retrieved from
www.saee.ca
Prins, F
., Sluijsmans, D., Kirschner, P
., & Strijbos, J. W. (2005). Formative peer assessment
in a CSCL environment: A case study. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education,
30(4), 417–44.
Raith, T. (2009). The use of Weblogs in language education. In M. Thomas (Ed.), Handbook
of research on Web 2.0 and second language learning (pp. 274–91). Hershey, PA:
Information Science Reference.
Richardson, W. (2006). Blogs, wikis, podcasts, and other powerful Web tools for
classrooms. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
302
Rolliston, P
. (2005). Using peer feedback in the ESL writing class. ELT Journal, 59(1),
23–30.
Skehan, P
. (1998). A cognitive approach to language learning. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Storch, N. (2005). Collaborative writing: Product, process and student’s reﬂections. Journal
of Second Language Writing, 14, 153–73.
Swain, M. (2000). The output hypothesis and beyond. In J. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural
theory and second language acquisition (pp. 97–114). Oxford, UK: Oxford University
Press.
Swales, J. (1991). Genre analysis: English in academic and research settings. Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press.
Tan, A. (2011). Why write with wikis? In C. M. L. Ho, K. T. Anderson & A. P
. Leong (Eds.),
Transforming literacies and language: Multimodality and literacy in the new media age
(pp. 207–22). London: Continuum.
Thomas, M. (Ed.) (2009). Handbook of research on Web 2.0 and second language learning.
Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.
Valenti, S., Nitko, A., & Cucchiarelli, A. (2003). An overview of current research on
automated essay grading. Journal of Information Technology Education, 2, 319–29.
Ward, J. (2004). Blog assisted language learning (BALL): Push button publishing for the
pupils. TEFL Web Journal, 3(1), 1–16.
Warschauer, M. (1997). Computer-mediated collaborative learning: Theory and practice.
Modern Language Journal, 81(4), 470–81.
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2008). Automated writing assessment in the classroom.
Pedagogies: An International Journal, 3(22), 22–36.
Warschauer, M., & Ware, P
. (2006). Automated writing evaluation: Deﬁning the classroom
research agenda. Language Teaching Research, 10(2), 1–24.
Wells, G. (2000). Dialogic inquiry in education. Building on the legacy of Vygotsky.
In C. Lee & P
. Smagorinsky (Eds.), Vygotskian perspectives on literacy research:
Constructing meaning through collaborative inquiry (pp. 51–85). Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.
Yoon, H. (2008). More than a linguistic reference: The inﬂuence of corpus technology on
L2 academic writing. Language Learning & Technology, 12(2), 31–48.
16
CALL and less commonly
taught languages
Richard M. Robin
Summary
This chapter discuss the technological issues facing both learners and instructors
of the less commonly taught languages with an emphasis on the impact of the
latest Web-based technology on less commonly taught languages (LCTLs) that are a
traditional part of college curricula (e.g., Russian, Chinese, Japanese) as opposed to
those that are taught much more rarely. Technological measures applicable to those
who must resort to self-instruction are also considered. Finally, issues speciﬁc to
LCTLs in the current Web 2.0 environment are discussed, such as the representation
of non-Roman scripts and copyright clearance for materials coming from sources in
countries where intellectual property law is less clearly deﬁned.
Introduction
The maturation of digital technology and the internet has changed the nature of foreign
language instruction, but few areas have reaped greater cumulative beneﬁts than those
involved in the teaching and learning of LCTLs in nearly all facets.These include (1) the
availability of materials for speciﬁcally pedagogical input, (2) the creation of modular
learning materials and (3) the ability to use raw Web materials for self-instruction. Of
course, such beneﬁts ﬂow not only to LCTLs, but to all other languages. Nevertheless,
the signiﬁcance of the technological changes for LCTLs is greater. Instructors in the
commonly taught languages (CTLs) have an embarrassment of riches that can address
all modalities and appeal to a number of learning styles. The materials available for
LCTLs, especially those not taught traditionally, are sparser, and require greater
forbearance and search strategies.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
304
In this chapter we will examine the speciﬁc technological issues facing teachers and
learners of LCTLs with emphasis on the materials currently available, barriers to use
of intelligent CALL (ICALL), the need for independent learning strategies, the technical
and pedagogical demands posed by non-Roman script and possible directions where
technology might lead LCTL learners.
What are less commonly taught languages?
In North America, the acronym LCTLs commonly applies to all languages other than
English, Spanish, French and German. However, that deﬁnition is a bit too encompassing
for the purposes of this chapter for it fails to capture features subject to the offerings
and challenges posed by the current technology. A clearer picture emerges when we
consider additional characteristics.
Language level diﬃculty
The commonly taught languages, ‘cognate’ languages as deﬁned by Jorden and
Walton (1987), are acquired by English speakers relatively quickly. Most LCTLs, as
per Jackson and Kaplan (2007)1
are not. The most notable exceptions are Italian and
Portuguese, which rank ﬁfth and ninth respectively on the MLA college enrolment list
(Furman et al., 2010). Both are ILR Category I languages for which general proﬁciency
is deemed achievable in less than 600 hours of small-group instruction. Additionally
both these languages have a signiﬁcant instructional tradition in the United States and
large internet footprints as described below.
Proﬁciency expectations
Most LCTLs are harder than French, Spanish and German, for speakers of English,
but the proﬁciency expectations of LCTL learners can be assumed to be higher. It
is reasonable to posit that most students of CTLs will not use the languages they
are learning in more than a perfunctory way. If, as Swender’s (2003) data suggests,
a minority of college CTL majors break through the ACTFL Advanced threshold by
graduation, the proﬁciency attained by CTL students with less exposure than that of a
college major – and consequently lower levels of oral proﬁciency – prepares them for
competent tourism. On the other hand, high-level proﬁciency in LCTLs (especially in
‘critical’ languages) represents a largely unmet demand (Brecht, 2002; Malone et al.,
2005). That presents a paradox. LCTL learners are more likely than CTL students to
need their language for speciﬁc purposes – those which require minimal working
proﬁciency (ACTFL Advanced). And yet as many have pointed out (e.g., Blake et al.,
2008; Leaver et al., 2004; Rifkin, 2005, 2006) higher-level proﬁciency in most LCTLs,
is often beyond the learning capability, given the resources at hand, of most learners
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 305
without additional intensive residential courses, often in the form of in-country practice.
In addition, data from longitudinal studies such as Davidson (2010) shows that in-country
training for difﬁcult languages bears fruit only when extended – at least a semester and
signiﬁcantly more productive if for a year – and after basic proﬁciency (Intermediate
Mid or High) has been attained. Similar results for Russian are reported by Golonka
(2001). (We should note that some studies on in-country experience with CTLs provide
evidence of greater gains, see for example: Allen (2002) and Yager (1998); see also
DeKeyser (2007) for a summary of study abroad results in a number of languages.)
Moreover, the modalities that provide the fundamental infrastructure for content-rich
learning, reading and writing, especially where non-Roman script is involved, make
these competencies particularly difﬁcult to achieve (Larson, 2006).
Traditional treatment
Less commonly taught does not mean not widely taught. Materials development for a
number of LCTLs has a long academically based tradition that extends back to before
the appearance of the World Wide Web in the early 1990s or Web 2.0, which is more
gated and populated with user-produced content. This includes languages such as
Russian, Chinese and Japanese, which have had or still have enrolments high enough
to spur the production of materials, dedicated teacher-training workshops, assessment
workshops, such as ACTFL tester certiﬁcation programs and so on. In short, instructors
and materials developers need not start from scratch. Further down in this branch of
the hierarchy is Arabic, whose scarcity in college language programs before the post-
2001 boom in enrolments (637% in the decade leading up to 2009 – Furman et al.,
2010) had not provided the demand required for a variety of ﬁnely crafted materials.
Moreover, until quite recently, Arabic suffered from a relatively small internet footprint,
as discussed next. Nevertheless, with adjustments for individual areas of difﬁculty
(see, for example, the discussion of writing systems below), the electronic mediation
of instructional materials for traditionally if less commonly taught LCTLs bears greater
similarity to that of CTLs than to those of those languages which are taught more rarely,
as taxonomized by Brecht and Walton (1993): much more rarely taught (39 languages
including Armenian,Turkish, Hindi), least commonly taught (80 languages, for example,
Malay and Aymara – Carreira, 2011) and those that are never or almost never taught
(Galician, Asturiano – Carreira, 2011).
Internet footprint
A language’s internet footprint is an amalgam of internet infrastructure and number of
users as a percentage of the population. A rough measure of internet footprint is the
number of Wikipedia articles available in the target language (valid except for simpliﬁed
Chinese – as Wikipedia is blocked in the People’s Republic of China). A language’s
internet footprint is important both for materials developers and independent learners
alike. A small footprint limits pedagogical choice.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
306
AsTable 16.1 makes clear, after English, Chinese and Spanish, the difference in footprint
is not great, neither in terms of percentage of the target language population using the
internet nor in the raw number of users. It is notable only that current penetration of
internet use is signiﬁcantly smaller than for the other major LCTLs. But this is offset
by a high internet expansion rate – by a factor of 26, the highest of the languages
surveyed. However, a wholly different picture emerges when we look at non-traditional
LCTLs.The availability of language-speciﬁc internet radio is indicative.TuneIn.com lists
95 internet accessible radio stations for Russian, a traditional LCTL with 144 million
native speakers (NSs), according to Ethnologue, but only 6 for Bengali with 181 million
NSs (Lewis, 2009).2
A large internet footprint is important because it affords materials developers and
independent learners a wide choice of input. But it also suggests a wide variety of
ready-made pedagogical materials, whether in gated textbook ancillaries or in openly
available add-ons. In this regard, little difference exists between traditional LCTLs like
Russian and Chinese on the one hand, and Spanish, French and German on the other.
Non-traditional LCTLs, however, lack an abundance of such materials, many of which
must be put together ad hoc.
Available resources
The internet provides a wealth of material for many LCTLs, but the issues of ﬁnding
and developing material for use vary depending on the language. Bartoshesky (2004)
Number
of
users
World
population
English Chinese Spanish Japanese Portuguese German Arabic French Russian Korean
%
Internet
penetration
%
World
population
%
growth
Number
of
users
World
population
%
Internet
penetration
%
World
users
%
growth
Number
World
population
%
Internet
penetration
%
World
%
growth
Num.
World
%
Internet
penetration
%
%
growth
No.
World
%
Internet
penetration
%
%
growth
No.
World
%
Internet
penetration
%
%
growth
No.
World
population
%
Internet
penetration
%
%
growth
No.
World
population
%
Inet
penetration
%
%
growth
No.
World
%
Internet
penetration
%
%
growth
No.
%
Internet
penetration
%
%
growth
537
min
445
min
423
min.
37%
39%
9x
11x
2.7x
5x
4%
World
users
4%
World
users
33%
80%
26x
19x
55%
347
min.
348
min.
3%
World
users
3%
World
users
3%
World
users
19%
17%
42%
8%
99
min.
of
users
75
min.
users
95
min.
population
139
min.
population
65
min.
users
60
min.
users
39
min.
users
71
min.
World
population
2%
World
population
2x
60
min.
users
126
min.
population
5%
World
users
2.1x
83
min.
users
254
min.
population
users
24%
27%
43%
14.8x
153
min.
users
1.3
bin.
1.4
bin.
78%
TABLE 16.1. Internet footprint of major languages
(Based on statistics from World Internet Stats, 2011)
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 307
found that in terms of integration of Web-based materials, a positive correlation was
found between LCTL teachers’ Web surﬁng time and the ease of locating materials,
both as raw source material and ready-made modules. For the more common LCTLs,
ready-made material abounds and includes much for special purposes.
Pedagogical packages
Coordinators, instructors and students can seek out material through a number of
LCTL clearinghouses, such as the University of Minnesota’s Centre for Advanced
Research on Language Acquisition (CARLA), LangMedia, National Association of
Self-Instructional Language Programs (NASILP), Speech and Language Technology for
Minority Languages (SALTMIL) and similar sites. See Appendix A – Pedagogical Site
Thumbnail Descriptions.
One area of languages for speciﬁc purposes in the traditional LCTLs that has
received lavish attention and considerable funding is business language. A number of
Centres for International Business Education and Research (CIBERs) have developed
business-oriented materials in several LCTLs, including internet sourcebooks for
business topics in strategic languages such as Korean and Japanese, online interviews
with business ﬁgures in Chinese (Kelm, 2008), Japanese (Kelm & Tanaka, 2007) and
Turkish (Kelm,Wang & Chen, 2007). Full-scale business-language projects for complete
courses to be used with students who have reached ACTFL Intermediate are underway
forArabic, Chinese, Korean, Japanese and Russian at the GeorgeWashington University
CIBER. Within the CIBER community, Gonglewski and Helm (2010) have introduced
business case templates for use in the strategic languages.
Pedagogical packages for listening comprehension (presentational mode) in the
form of podcasts aimed at ACTFL Intermediate listeners are available for Russian,
Chinese and Arabic from the National Capital Language Resource Centre (2012).3
Intelligent CALL (ICALL)
Despite the vast array of pedagogical material available for a wide range of languages,
LCTL learners are hard-pressed to ﬁnd appropriate materials (Lim et al., 2011); even
rarer are ICALL materials that are capable of natural language processing (NLP). To
begin with, NLP
, especially that capable of handling learner errors, is still largely an
unﬁnished work, whose commercial application for dedicated language learning
projects has been limited. Unlike processing based on string matches in which student
responses are compared to the expected response character by character, NLP
requires extraordinary effort in advance. String-match exercises are easy to create,
but their processing power is narrow.4
They require that the exercise writer produce all
possible variants for an answer – often an impossible task, especially in languages with
free word order. The statistical approach to NLP, used in Web-based sites such as the
Google translator, requires enormous efforts in collecting and manually tagging large
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
308
translated corpora for each language or set of languages involved. Statistically based
natural language processors improve as more tagged data is entered. This allows a
wide range of user input (in this case L2 from the learner), although false positives
occur. For most LCTLs statistics-based NLP is far too costly an endeavour without
initial groundwork from well-ﬁnanced commercial software producers. Rule-based
NLP dates back to the era of mainframe computing. It requires programmers to supply
the language processor with the vocabulary, rules and major exceptions. However,
such an approach cannot cover every aspect of the language, and learner input must
be limited to that subset of language that falls within the NLP’s rule base. Despite that
drawback, rule-based NLP has been predominant in CALL-based applications because
of its relative economy. But as Shalaan (2005, pp. 87–8) points out, rule-based NLP
comes with a sense of grammaticality, based on hand-constructed rules.That avoids the
pitfalls of non-grammatical language from being included into the language processor’s
repertoire of permitted language, a problem that plagues statistics-based NLP
.
While rule-based NLP has advantages over other methods, it nevertheless requires
a signiﬁcant investment in advance.Therefore it is no surprise that true ICALL projects
for LCTLs are scarce. They include Robo-Sensei for Japanese (Nagata, 2002; Ushida,
2007), Arabic ICALL (Shalaan, 2005), an intelligent CMC and the Portuguese Tagarela
(Amaral Meurers, 2009). Vlugter et al. (2009) describe a more specialized Māori CMC
project for New Zealand English speakers.The program is similar to a chatbot, which is
capable of playing several chat partners in one Instant Messenger (IM) conversation and
which can parse student errors and suggest corrections, targeting Māori pronouns.5
If NLP has begun to make its way into reliable educational and commercial products
only since the dawn of the twenty-ﬁrst century, work on corpora, which lay the basis
for statistic-based NLP
, is underway thus providing the framework for the production of
pedagogical materials for LCTLs. For example, the MILE project is a small, structured
English corpus designed for translation into LCTLs, and a set of re-usable tools for
the creation of similar corpora (Alvarez et al., 2006). Simpson et al. (2009) describe
the creation of language packs for eight diverse Asian LCTLs (from Indo-European
Punjabi to Austronesian Tagalog) that include basic data processing and conversion
tools, such as tokenizers, sentence segmenters, character encoding converters and
name transliterators, as well as more advanced tools, such as part of speech taggers
(POS), named entity taggers and morphological analysers.
Web-based ICALL resources aside, even the most pedestrian ofWeb-based material
with wrap-around pedagogical activities may be hard to come by in the non-traditional
LCTLs. Armitage and Bowerman (2005) investigated the possibility of creating learning
object modules (LOMs) – reusable pieces that can be applied as needed. The LOM
approach rests on three principles: (1) standardization of metadata ﬁles so that search
agents can assemble potential learning objects (such as Flash animations) into a
suitable course; (2) the development of adaptive systems to match the data proﬁles
of learners and institutions to provide highly targeted materials; (3) the consequent
assembly of the content of the adaptive courses created on the basis of the metadata
ﬁles. Such a library would be malleable with courses assembled ad hoc, based on
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 309
automated decisions. However, the authors note the shortcomings of current NLP and
bemoan the loss of instructor input.
No discussion of instruction in LCTLs would be complete without addressing
commercial packages such as Rosetta Stone, if for no other reason because the
company has published so many courses for LCTLs – nearly 30. Unfortunately, the
profession has chosen largely to ignore the product. Reviews from the ﬁeld are few
and only Nielson (2011) has investigated whether the product works. Her main ﬁnding
was severe attrition among adult learners and ‘Despite beginning with large n-sizes,
a wide range of enthusiastic participants from different positions within the [US
Government], and researcher encouragement and support, this method of language
training yielded very limited proﬁciency gains in only a handful of learners’ (p. 125).
Reviewers (all teachers of CTLs) have been critical. Erickson (2004, p. 1027) sees the
program as worthy enhancement for classroom teaching but along with Bidlake (2009)
bemoans the mechanical nature of the exercises. In Bidlake’s words, ‘Rosetta Stone
has replaced “boring memorization” . . . and “the endless tedium of . . . grammar
drills” with boring multiple choice questions and the endless tedium of mouse-clicking’
(p. 163). Only VanBuren (2008) is less critical but nevertheless assigns Rosetta Stone
a preliminary or supplementary role, one which prepares learners for initial interaction
with native speakers.
The raw Web
The paucity of ready-made pedagogical materials for the more rarely taught LCTLs
means that ‘[l]earners of LCTLs will necessarily manage signiﬁcant portions of their
own study’ (Walker & McGuiness, 1995, p. 2). That requires learners to master raw,
unﬁltered materials available on the Web. For digital natives (Prensky, 2001) honing
skills for such learning enhancement is not difﬁcult, although learners might need
some initial direction. While digital natives might ﬁnd and use material with greater
initial ease, facility with digital technology does not guarantee the concerted long-term
effort required for real proﬁciency gains.
Writing and lexicon: Google as a corpus and concordancer
Students can use the Google search engine as an immense corpus tool and
concordancer (Guo & Zhang, 2007; Robb, 2003; Shei, 2008; Wu, 2009; Wu et al.,
2012; Zengin, 2009). Sha (2010) outlines the differences between traditional static
annotated corpora, such as the British National Corpus, and the unannotated,
statistics-based Google search engine. He presents recommendations on Google
use for English, which can be adapted to other LCTLs: be guided by the number of
hits returned for a phraseological unit (e.g., discard phrases of four words that return
fewer than 30 hits); (2) compare phraseological preference when in doubt (e.g., quit
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
310
smoking vs *quit from smoking); (3) use the search engine to check the original
context.
Reading: The Google translator
Machine translation based on statistical NLP is rapidly coming of age. While
machine translators produce clunky text, they are now sophisticated enough to
prompt Pym’s (2011, p. 4) remark that a ‘true translation’ becomes one that is
‘revised by a professional translator’. But, he adds, the technology is here to stay. If
the Google translator betrays a lazy student’s written production in L2 fairly quickly
right now, that will not always be the case. Even more importantly, with some
language pairings, the Google translator allows non-L2 readers to understand
simple text at the paragraph level without much difﬁculty. That probably should be
seen as an advantage to diligent students learning a LCTL where resources are
limited. (How an eventually improved Google translator will develop in both CTL
and LCTL learning situations remains to be studied.) It should be noted because
statistics-based translators require so much training based on extant texts, the more
widespread the language, the better they work. This has obvious consequences for
the rarer LCTLs.
Writing: The Google translator
We discussed search engines such as Google’s as tools for writing immediately above.
The translator itself can act as a writing check when used in reverse. Remember that
L2 writers, especially those without ready access to native readers, are shooting at a
target almost entirely blind. They cannot determine when they have hit the mark. A
statistically based translator can remove the blindfold, at least partly. L2 writers can
have Google translate their attempts back into L1. When they see idiomatic English
as translations for their L2, they can be assured that they got it right. Awkward or
nonsense English prose is no guarantee that the L2 attempt was inaccurate, but it
serves as a warning sign that something might be wrong.
Authentic listening
The availability of authentic audio is probably the greatest technological boon to
language learning, especially around the intermediate level. For LCTLs with a large
internet footprint, the menu of choices is for all intents and purposes equal to that
of the CTLs. Listeners can ﬁnd speech on a variety of topics, often with side-by-side
audio transcripts from major news and public affairs outlets, whether from within the
target-speaking area or outside (e.g., the BBC’s language services). Of course, the
selection of material in non-traditional LCTLs is sparser, as alluded to in the discussion
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 311
of internet footprint at the beginning of this chapter. The relative paucity of authentic
audio in the rarer LCTLs means that the appropriate audience – those who have reached
the ACTFL Intermediate Mid-High borderline might have to resort to extraordinary
measures to manipulate audio material that exceeds i+1 difﬁculty. Such measures
include using an audio player (or editor) to repeat or slow down or select the audio text
in question and ﬁnding additional written background material, both in L1 and L2 to ﬁll
gaps in the information. Background material might include both original scripts and
literary works that serve as the basis for the material. See Robin (2007) for a complete
description of such ameliorating devices.
The availability of material is only one side of the coin however. Instructors’
decisions about what to use is the other. Bartoshesky (2004), for example, compared
LCTL teacher use to that of CTL and ESL teachers (see Table 16.2). She found that
overwhelmingly, LCTL teachers – 85% – turned to the Web for culturally authentic
materials, reading, and, to a lesser extent, listening materials.This closely mirrored the
patterns reported by CTL teachers. But CTL teachers were more likely to turn to the
Web to enhance other facets of instruction as well.
Non-Roman writing systems
Many LCTLs, both traditional and non-traditional, employ non-Roman script. In CALL,
the main issue over the last two decades, even before pedagogical questions, has
TABLE 16.2 Percentage of participants that use Web-based materials to
teach language areas (as per Bartoshesky, 2004, p. 78)
Language area ESL CTL LCTL
Culture 64 93 85
Grammar 77 62 24
Reading 70 71 74
Writing 35 70 43
Speaking 41 23 17
Listening 53 31 40
Vocabulary 77 60 43
Literature 24 37 37
Pronunciation 30 15 15
Language functions 20 28 20
Language functions 20 28 20
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
312
been the reliable cross-platform representation of non-Roman script. The introduction
of Unicode in the 1990s was meant to alleviate incompatibilities among computing
platforms due to language code pages (in use from the early 1980s to the early 2000s).
Each code page covered one alphabet with space for 127 alphanumeric symbols in
addition to standard Roman. Two or more code pages could not be combined in a
single document. Thus a document containing three separate alphabets required
extraordinary measures. Moreover, a lack of standardization often led to code page
‘wars’: several competing code pages, one for each computer platform.That prevented
free exchanges in non-Roman LCTLs between Macintosh andWindows users. Unicode,
based on 16-bit computing provided for over 65,000 glyphs, enough to cover every
character ever used in all writing systems with room to spare for new glyphs. However,
Unicode has made its way into computing slowly. It requires explicit support for all
parts of a computing system. For example, while http-based mail systems (e.g., Gmail,
Yahoo mail, MSN-mail) are fully Unicode compliant, some proprietary email systems,
such as those set up by individual universities, are still code page-dependent, resulting
in gibberish in email exchanges.6
As recently as the early and mid-2000s, Arabic writers
had to resort to transliteration in email and instant messaging (Alosh, 2001; Palfreyman
& Khalil, 2003; Warschauer, El Said & Zohry, 2002).
Even full Unicode compliance is no shield against problems relating to glyph
variations not covered by agreed-to Unicode conventions. Consider, for example, the
issue of stress notation in East Slavic languages (Russian, Belorussian and Ukrainian).
East Slavic languages have unpredictable dynamic stress, which must be marked
for beginning students. But Unicode provides no error-free standard cross-platform
convention for this.7
Finally, students attempting to access non-Roman scripts on computers that
they themselves do not own face locked-down systems on which they cannot add
foreign-language input. In such cases, they have no alternative but to turn to tools such
as Google Transliteration.
Once the technical problems are solved, students must master keyboard input. For
alphabetic languages, users must decide between a target-language native keyboard
and a ‘student’ or ‘phonetic’ keyboard. While keyboards in which L2 letters are mapped
to their closest Roman equivalents are easy to master, users may want to consider
whether they will need to eventually enter text on devices where a pre-installed
keyboard cannot be modiﬁed. Even with phonetic layouts, keyboard-induced mistakes
will pose further challenges. For example, Hopp and Hopp’s (2004) NewSlate program,
which can be adapted to non-Roman alphabets, targets keyboard practice in Hebrew.
For logographic writing systems, such as Chinese and Japanese, native-like keyboard
entry eases character-creation because entry starts as Roman transliteration. For each
character, users then select from a menu of computer-generated choices. In the early
2000s, Hourser et al. (2002) introduced a version of keyboard entry for Japanese and
Chinese which added English glosses to the menu of possible characters generated by
each word entered in Romanization, while Okuyama (2007) investigated the usefulness
of allowing students of Japanese to put off learning both kana syllabaries and Kanji.
Chikamatsu (2003), on the other hand, found that American students of Japanese were
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 313
more accurate in their production of Kanji on screen than in handwriting, especially
if they had a higher language skill set. But greater concentration on keyboard input
may mean less attention to handwriting skills. This affects LCTLs such as Russian,
where handwriting is graphically similar to print but nevertheless requires additional
instruction and practice, or Arabic, Pashto, Dari, Persian and Hebrew, all of which have
difﬁcult-to-produce cursive forms. Hindi, too, causes problems. While not cursive, the
script is complicated by the use of conjuncts, which makes the beginnings and ends
of letters somewhat opaque for ﬁrst-time learners (Tozcu, 2008).
The level of difﬁculty of the writing system is germane to other activities involving
on-screen text and listening comprehension. It is true that some, such as Vandergrift
(2007
, p. 7) ﬁnd that on-screen captions can turn into a crutch that might inhibit the
development of compensatory skills. But other studies suggest that on-screen
captioning, whether in the form of original on-screen text or as a pedagogical device,
has salutary effects on immediate comprehension (Borrás & Lafayette, 1994; Danan,
1992, 2004; Garza, 1991; Markham, 1993, 1999; Neuman & Koskinen, 1992; Price,
1983; Shen, 1991; Vanderplank, 1992) and serves as a strong motivator for learners
(Chai & Erlam, 2008; Chung, 1999; Taylor, 2005; Vandergrift, 2008; Winke et al., 2010).
But unfamiliar writing systems can lead to cognitive overload in multimedia
activities. Gruba (2004, pp. 76–7) investigated the use by Australian learners of
on-screen visual elements in Japanese newscasts. He noted difﬁculties in the rapid
decoding of graphic information in Kanji. Similarly, Winke et al. (2010) investigated the
effectiveness of captions on comprehension for students of four languages: Spanish,
Russian, Arabic and Chinese. In all cases captioned clips were more comprehensible
than uncaptioned clips. For Spanish and for Russian (whose alphabet is Roman-like,
morphophonemically based and easily mastered), captioning in a ﬁrst viewing was
generally more effective than when captioning was withheld until the second viewing.
In Arabic and Chinese, where the writing systems are more problematic, captioning for
the second viewing was more effective. Lee and Kalyuga (2011) successfully reduced
cognitive overload brought on by the simultaneous on-screen presentation of pinyin
Romanization and Chinese characters by reducing the amount of pinyin on screen.
For the more experienced learners partial pinyin transcription facilitated more effective
comprehension than full pinyin or no-pinyin conditions.
Distance learning and hybrid courses
Distance learning (DL) could be the engine that helps to save and even expand the
teaching of LCTLs. Distance learning activities and assessment take place in one
of two modes: synchronous (real time, direct, for example through audio-video
conferencing, live whiteboarding and so on) or asynchronous (external internet
sources for input material and assignments and email and dropboxes for the delivery
of assignments). Hybrid courses usually involve some face-to-face instruction with
many of the less interactive parts of the course – reading, listening to presentational
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
314
texts (ﬂow-of-speech, non-interactive listening), homework, especially mechanical,
machine gradable exercises – farmed out to remote DL activities. But specialized
LCTL courses with a large DL component often face two main difﬁculties:
1 Technical support. Synchronous activities require reliable high-speed
connections. While free or low-cost products such as Skype work for individual
tutoring sessions, classroom conferencing software capable of creating a virtual
classroom with dozens of participants, such as Wimba or Ellimunate, require
institutional support.Therefore it comes as no surprise that many DL conference
efforts focus on pair-work or small groups (Fu Zhilai, 2010). The internet
connection itself becomes an issue when remote locations include sites with
slower speeds.
2 Tuition issues.The cost of electronic DL continues to fall. Reliable conferencing
software and the required subscriptions are not cheap, but they are cost-efﬁcient.
And one-on-one video chat is essentially free. Individual tuition costs, however,
are another matter. Fleming et al. (2002) took note of the problems caused
by the uneven tuition rates for member campuses of the University of Hawai‘i
ITV courses. (ITV, or interactive television, was a 1990s precursor to academic
videoconferencing.) The issue was through a United States National Security
Education Program (NSEP) grant, but without such funding or without tuition
relief for DL on the part institutions with higher tuition rates, materials developers
at expensive schools have less incentive to develop DL for use by those outside
the college.
Copyright issues
The birth of the digital age in the 1980s and 1990s brought with it a host of copyright
issues. For CTLs, many of these issues have now been solved. Garrett (2009, p. 721)
notes: ‘In 1991 copyright concerns focused chieﬂy on the copying, or pirating, of
software, but that is less of an issue now; publishers have well-established licensing
procedures and password protection is more sophisticated.’ The main issue these
days, Garrett continues, is teachers’ concerns about violating copyright. That concern
is echoed by Hefferman and Wang (2008) in relation to CALL materials from Japan,
where the culture of intellectual property rights is quite strict. However, many LCTL
instructors will have to face copyright issues similar to those faced by CTL instructors
20 years ago because in many LCTL target countries intellectual property law is
not well established, and few market channels for intellectual property exist. This
especially applies to countries where piracy is rampant and widely tolerated. In such
societies, copyright holders may be hard to identify. When identiﬁed, they may be
hard to contact or, given their inexperience in the commercial copyright market, may
be unrealistic in their negotiations for copyright release. Such issues do not plague
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 315
the everyday classroom teacher. Here the provisions of Fair Use8
and the TEACH Act
of 2002 (American Library Association, 2012) allow the use of almost any material in
a classroom setting, even if DL-based. Even asynchronous activities requiring storage
of protected material might be permissible depending on the nature and length of
the material used and how widely it is distributed. For example, the use of a recent
downloaded copyrighted newscast in a copy-protected environment in which only
the students in the course have access and cannot retain the material once the
assignment is completed is likely to be permissible. On the other hand, issues of
copyright regularly trouble materials developers who wish to publish pedagogical
scaffolding materials for already existing Web-based material. The more daring of
authors might embed an existing YouTube video clip into a webpage. More cautious
authors might create a separate page with separate links to the material cited in the
exercises. In either case, materials writers always run the risk that previously existing
input material on theWeb (audio, video, text, games) will disappear tomorrow – unless
the authors have secured the rights and reuploaded the material on their own sites.
But that is often an impossible task.
Conclusions
The current technology has gone a long way in levelling the playing ﬁeld for learners
of CTLs, traditionally taught LCTLs, and the rarer LCTLs from the standpoint of the
availability of authentic input. While materials are still sparser for the rare LCTLs,
the expansion of the Web, both in the number of sites and users and the variety
of supported platforms, has brought a wealth of source material, much of it free of
charge, to anyone with a good internet connection. The technological component of
pedagogical materials has graduated from platform-speciﬁc specialized software,
often on CD and DVD, to Web-based applications. But complete sets of pedagogical
materials for the rarer LCTLs are not plentiful. The potential of the technology in such
cases requires that independently minded users hone their strategies, technological
and pedagogical, for setting their own language learning agenda. Learners cannot take
full advantage of what is available unless they can construct a cogent learning package
out of the disparate materials they ﬁnd. Whether the acquisition of independent
learning techniques based on available material in the Cloud is realistic is a matter for
future observation. If success in such endeavours is rare, then would-be independent
learners will require much more in the way of supplemental instruction, whether from
a live instructor at a remote location or from carefully crafted pedagogical materials.
And while the dissemination of rare LCTL packets is greatly eased by the technological
revolution, their creation still requires time and ﬁnancing.
Predicting the further development of technology in second language acquisition is
dangerous.The literature from the late 1990s and early 2000s is ﬁlled with descriptions
of pedagogical projects that did not anticipate the all-pervasive presence of YouTube
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
316
(launched 2005), the Google translator (from 2006), social websites (Facebook went
live 2005) or the growing penetration of mobile computing.
It would appear, however, that much of the future will centre on statistically based
natural language processing (NLP), speciﬁcally the processing of human speech
with the earliest availability to the most widespread LCTLs from language areas with
the largest internet footprints. If that technology trickles down to the rarer LCTLs,
the possibilities for more effective self-instruction or machine-based supplemental
instruction widens.
But for the immediate future the challenge facing teachers and learners is no longer
a matter of who can author the most targeted pedagogical software, but rather who
can intertwine the newest mainstream technologies into strands that best serve LCTL
learners.
Appendix A: Pedagogical Site Thumbnail Descriptions
CARLA (Centre for Advanced Research on Language Acquisition) Less Commonly
Taught Languages, www.carla.umn.edu/lctl): Sharable resources in 25 languages, lists
of university courses. Multimedia activities in Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Persian.
North American Course Listings for Less Commonly Taught Languages, searchable
database of course offerings at colleges and universities, K-12 programs, distance
education courses, study abroad programs and summer language courses; LCTL
classroom materials development; instructional materials; CARLA Summer Institute
information.
CIBERweb (Language, http://ciberweb.msu.edu/events/language): Pedagogical LCTL
initiatives for business language.
LangMedia (http://langmedia.ﬁvecolleges.edu): Various multimedia pedagogi-
cal resources in 41 languages; mentored courses in eight LCTLs (available to Five
College students only); independent study courses in twenty languages through
the Five College Supervised Independent Language Program (Amherst, Hampshire,
Mt. Holyoke, Smith, University of Massachusetts).
NASILP (National Association of Self-Instructional Language Programs, www.nasilp.
net): Fosters the study of less commonly taught languages through self-instructional
principles utilizing a ‘prochievement’ modality developed for an academic setting for 82
languages. See Dunkel (2002).
SALTMIL (Speech and Language Technology for Minority Languages, http://ixa2.
si.ehu.es/saltmil/): Emphasis on corpora and linguistic analysis of data from SCOLA
(www.scola.org) which provides rebroadcasts of the news from across the world.
Some material is accompanied by transcripts and exercises. SCOLA requires an insti-
tutional subscription.
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 317
UCLA Language Materials Project (http://lmp.ucla.edu/): Provides pedagogical mate-
rials and teaching hints for over 100 LCTLs.
Michigan State University Foreign Language Resource Centre (nﬂrc.msu.edu):
Materials, many online, for dozens of LCTLs.
WebCorps Live (www.webcorp.org.uk/live): Serves as a concordance front-end for
Bing or Google search sites by reorganizing the information in hits so that users can
see all the contexts at a glance.
Notes
1 Originally the US State Department, along with most government entities making
up the Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR) classiﬁed languages by difﬁculty
for American English speakers into four categories, based on the number of hours
of small-group instruction required to reach ILR 3 (roughly equivalent to ACTFL
Superior) across all skills: Category 1, for example, Romance languages – 575–600
hours, Category 2, for example, German and Malay – 750–900 hours, Category 3, for
example, most Slavic languages – 11 hours and Category 4, for example, Chinese,
Japanese, Arabic – 220 hours with a year in country. In the mid-2000s, the State
Department reduced the number of categories to three, folding Category 2 into
Category 1. But the four-tier taxonomy, for all intents and purposes, remains in effect,
because the number of instructional hours allotted for former Category 2 languages is
signiﬁcantly higher than for other Category 1 languages: 750–900 class hours.
2 Total population ﬁgures vary from those cited for Table 16.1 because the ﬁgures come
from 2011 estimates and are rounded off.
3 The NCRLC webcasts, The Simpliﬁed News, address the changes in media stylistics
that has made newscasting in these languages more difﬁcult over the last 20 years.
Before globalization, much of the news delivery for the target audiences was slow,
deliberate and predictable in terms of content. With the importation of Western media
conventions, delivery has become faster, while redundancy and predictability have
fallen. The Simpliﬁed News restores the previous delivery to the news in bimonthly
news summaries accompanied by pedagogical wrap-arounds.
4 Unlike the NLP-based CALL projects discussed here, string-matching exercises can be
put together from scratch by computer novices through such exercise creation sites
as Quia, Hot Potatoes or on the test and assessment portions of course management
software, such as Blackboard.
5 Common chatboxes are not showcases for NLP
. Most recombine user input in an
attempt at conversation and can be made to fail the artiﬁcial intelligence Turing test
(they cannot fool a human interlocutor) without difﬁculty.
6 Problems with non-Roman email confound some users (usually outside the target
countries) even today, despite the existence of Unicode.
7 The Unicode non-spacing characters confound spell-checkers and often fail to
reproduce properly in print or on screen.
8 For a full and accessible discussion of the issue of copyright in pedagogy, see Harper
(2007).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
318
References
Allen, H. (2002). Does study abroad make a difference? An investigation of linguistic and
motivational outcomes. Unpublished dissertation, Emory University.
Alosh, M. (2001). Learning language at a distance: An Arabic initiative. Foreign Language
Annals, 34(4), 347–54.
Alvarez, A., Levin, L., Frederking, R., Fung, S., Gates, D., & Good, J. (2006). The MILE
Corpus for less commonly taught languages. In Proceedings of the Human Language
Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL (pp. 5–8). New York:
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Amaral L., & Meurers, W. D. (2009). Little things with big effects: On the identiﬁcation and
interpretation of tokens for error diagnosis in ICALL. CALICO Journal 26(3), 580–91.
American Council for the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) (2012). ACTFL
Proﬁciency Guidelines.
American Library Association (2012). Distance education and the TEACH Act. Retrieved
from www.ala.org/Template.cfm?Section = Distance_ Education_ and_the_TEACH
_Act&Template= /ContentManagement/ ContentDisplay.cfm &ContentID=25939
Armitage, N., & Bowerman, C. (2005). The LOM approach: A call for concern? Computer
Assisted Language Learning, 18(1/2), 109–18.
Bartoshesky, A. (2004). Cyber resources for language education: Accessing and
using Web-based target language materials. Unpublished dissertation. ProQuest
Dissertations & Theses (PQDT).
Bidlake, E. (2009). ‘This is the biggest blue cake’: A technology review of Rosetta Stone®
Version 3. ARECLS, 6, 156–64.
Blake, R., Wilson, N., Cetto, M., & Pardo-Ballester, C. (2008). Measuring oral proﬁciency
in distance, face-to-face, and blended classrooms. Language Learning & Technology,
12(3), 114–27
.
Borrás, I., & Lafayette, R. C. (1994). Effects of multimedia courseware subtitling on the
speaking performance of college students of French. The Modern Language Journal,
78(1), 61–75.
Brecht, R. (2002). Foreword to B. L. Leaver & B. Shekhtman (Eds.), Developing
professional-level language proﬁciency. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brecht, R., & Walton, A. R. (1993). National strategic planning in the less commonly taught
languages. Washington, D C: National Foreign Language Centre and University of
Maryland.
CARLA (Centre for Advanced Research on Language Acquisition) (2009). ‘Less Commonly
Taught Languages are . . .’. Retrieved from www.carla.umn.edu/lctl/deﬁnition.html
Carreira, M. (2011). Preserving the less commonly taught languages: One size does not ﬁt
all. Presentation at What Future for the Less Commonly Taught Languages? New York:
Columbia University 30 April.
Chai, J., & Erlam, R. (2008). The effect and the inﬂuence of the use of video and captions
on second language learning. New Zealand Studies in Applied Linguistics, 14(2), 25–44.
Chi-Chiang, S. (2008). Discovering the hidden treasure on the internet: Using Google to
uncover the veil of phraseology. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(1), 67–85.
Chikamatsu, N. (2003). The effects of computer use on L2 Japanese writing. Foreign
Language Annals, 36(1), 114–27
.
Chung, J. (1999). The effects of using video texts supported with advance organizers and
captions on Chinese college students’ listening comprehension: An empirical study.
Foreign Language Annals, 32(3), 295–308.
Danan, M. (1992). Reversed subtitling and dual coding theory: New directions for foreign
language instruction. Language Learning, 42(4), 497–527
.
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 319
— (2004). Captioning and subtitling: Undervalued language learning strategies. Meta,
49(1), 67–77
.
Davidson, D. (2010). Study abroad: When, how long, and with what results? New data
from the Russian front. Foreign Language Annals, 43(1), 6–26.
DeKeyser, R. (2007). Study abroad as foreign language practice. In R. DeKeyser (Ed.),
Practice in a Second Language: Perspectives from applied linguistics and cognitive
psychology (pp. 208–26). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dunkel, A., Brill, S., & Kohl, B. (2002) The impact of self-instructional technology on
language learning: A view of NASILP
. In C. A. Spreen (Ed.), New technologies in
language learning: Cases in the less commonly taught languages (pp. 97–120).
Honolulu: University of Hawai‘i, Second language teaching & Curriculum Centre.
Erickson, L. O. (2004). Review of Rosetta Stone, Personal Edition: Level I and II. The
French Review, 77(5), 1027–8.
Fleming, S., Hiple, D., & Du, Y. (2002). Foreign language distance learning education: The
University of Hawai‘i experience. In C. A. Spreen (Ed.), New technologies in language
learning: Cases in the less commonly taught languages (pp. 13–54). Honolulu:
University of Hawai‘i, Second language teaching & Curriculum Centre.
Fu, Z. (2010). Distance learning for foreign language teaching. 2010 Second International
Conference on Multimedia and Information Technology. IEEE Computer Society (pp.
259–61).
Furman, N., Goldberg, D., & Lusin, Natalia. (2010). Enrollments in languages other than
English in United States institutions of higher education, Fall 2009. New York: Modern
Language Association.
Garrett, N. (2009). Computer-assisted language learning trends and issues revisited:
Integrating innovation. The Modern Language Journal, 93, 719–40.
Garza, T. (1991). Evaluating the use of captioned video materials in advanced foreign
language learning. Foreign Language Annals, 24, 239–58.
Golonka, E. (2001). Identiﬁcation of salient linguistic and metalinguistic in the prediction of
oral proﬁciency gain at the advanced-level threshold among adult learners of Russian.
Unpublished dissertation, Bryn Mawr College.
Gonglewski, M., & Helm, A. (2010). An examination of business case methodology:
Pedagogical synergies from two disciplines. Global Business Languages, 15(3).
Google Transliteration. Retrieved from www.google.com/transliterate
Gruba, P
. (2004). Understanding digitized second language videotext. Computer Assisted
Language Learning, 17(1), 51–82.
Guo, S., & Zhang, G. (2007). Building a customised Google-based collocation collector to
enhance language learning. British Journal of Educational Technology, 38(4), 747–50.
Harper, G. K. (2007). The copyright crash course. Austin: University of Texas Libraries.
Retrieved from http://copyright.lib.utexas.edu/index.html
Heffernan, N., & Wang, S. (2008). Copyright and multimedia classroom material: A study
from Japan. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(2), 167–80.
Hopp, M., & Hopp, T. (2004). newSLATE: Building a Web-based infrastructure for learning
non-Roman script languages. CALICO Journal, 21(3), 541–55.
Jackson F
. H., & Kaplan, M. A. (2007). Theory and practice in government language
teaching. Retrieved from www.govtilr.org/Publications/TESOL03ReadingFull.htm#_ftn1
Jorden, E. H., & Walton, A. R. (1987). Truly foreign languages: Instructional challenges. The
Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, 490, 110–24.
Kelm, O. (2008). Cultural interviews with Turkish-speaking executives. Austin: University of
Texas CIBER.
Kelm, O., & Tanaka, M. (2007). Cultural interviews with Japanese-speaking executives.
Austin: University of Texas CIBER.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
320
Kelm, O., Wang, H., & Chen, J. (2007). Cultural interviews with Chinese-speaking
executives. Austin: University of Texas CIBER.
Internet World Stats (2011). Internet world users by language. Retrieved from www.
internetworldstats.com/stats7
.htm
Larson, P
. (2006). The return of the text: A welcome challenge for less commonly taught
languages. The Modern Language Journal, 90(2), 255–8.
Leaver, B. L., Ehrman, M., & Lekic, M. (2004). Distinguished-level learning online: Support
materials from LangNet and RussNet. Foreign Language Annals, 37(4), 556–66.
Lee, C. H., & Kalyuga, S. (2011). Effectiveness of on-screen pinyin in learning Chinese: An
expertise reversal for multimedia redundancy effect. Computers in Human Behavior,
27(1), 11–15.
Lewis, P
. M. (Ed.) (2009). Ethnologue: Languages of the World (16th ed.). Dallas: SIL
International. Retrieved from www.ethnologue.com
Lim, J., Campbell, C., & Smala, S. (2011). Technology enhanced scaffolding in language
teaching: Using LessonLAMS for Korean as a foreign language. In L. Cameron & J.
Dalziel (Eds.), Proceedings of the 6th international LAMS & learning design conference
2011: Learning design for a changing world (pp. 128–34). Sydney: LAMS Foundation.
Malone, M., Rifkin, B., Christian, D., & Johnson, D. (2005). Attaining high levels
of proﬁciency: Challenges for foreign language education in the United States.
Washington, DC: Center for Applied Linguistics.
Markham, P
. (1993). Captioned television videotapes: Effects of visual support on second
language comprehension. Journal of Educational Technology Systems, 21(3), 183–91.
— (1999). Captioned videotapes and second-language listening word recognition. Foreign
Language Annals, 32(3), 321–8.
Nagata, N. (2009). Robo-Sensei’s NLP-based error detection and feedback generation.
CALICO Journal, 26 (3), 562–79.
NASILP (National Association of Self-Instructional Language Programs). Retrieved from
www.nasilp.net
National Capital Language Resource Centre (2012). The Simpliﬁed News. Retrieved from
http://nclrc.org/webcasts/
Neuman, S. B., & Koskinen, P
. (1992). Captioned television as comprehensible input:
Effects of incidental word learning from context for language minority students.
Reading Research Quarterly, 27, 94–106.
Nielson, K. (2011). Self-study with language learning software in the workplace: What
happens? Language Learning & Technology, 15(3), 110–29.
Okuyama, Y. (2007). CALL vocabulary learning in Japanese: Does Romaji help beginners
learn more words? CALICO Journal, 24(2), 355–79.
Palfreyman, D., & Khalil, M. A. (2003). ‘A funky language for teenzz to use’: Representing
Gulf Arabic in instant messaging. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 9(1).
Prensky, M. (2001). Digital natives, digital immigrants. In On the Horizon, 9(5), 1–6.
Price, K. (1983). Closed-captionedTV: An untapped resource. MATSOL Newsletter, 12, 7–8.
Pym, A. (2011). What technology does to translation. Translation & Interpreting, 3(1), 1–9.
Retrieved from www.trans-int.org/index.php/transint/article/view/121/81
Renouf, A. (2009). Corpus linguistics beyond Google: The WebCorp linguist’s search
engine. Digital Studies/Le champ numérique, 1(1).
Rifkin, B. (2005). A ceiling effect in traditional classroom foreign language instruction: Data
from Russian. The Modern Language Journal, 89(1), 3–18.
— (2006). A ceiling effect for communicative language teaching? The Modern Language
Journal, 90(2), 262–4.
Robb, T. (2003). Google as a quick’n dirty corpus tool. TESL
-EJ. Teaching English as a
Second or Foreign Language, 7(2).
CALL AND LESS COMMONLY TAUGHT LANGUAGES 321
Robin, R. (2007). Learner-based listening and technological authenticity. Language
Learning & Technology 11(1), 109–15.
Rosetta Stone, Ltd. (2012). Rosetta Stone (language learning software editions for each of
thirty languages). Retrieved from www.rosettastone.com
Sha, G. (2010). Using Google as a super corpus to drive written language learning: A
comparison with the British National Corpus. Computer Assisted Language Learning,
23(5), 377–93.
Shalaan, K. (2005). An intelligent computer assisted language learning system for Arabic
learners. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 18(1/2), pp. 81–108.
Shen, C. D. (1991). The effects of captioning on listening comprehension of English as a
Second Language in a computer-based interactive videodisc system.
Simpson, H., Maeda, K., & Cieri, C. (2009). Basic language resources for diverse Asian
languages: A streamlined approach for resource creation. In Proceedings of the 7th
Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL
-IJCNLP (pp. 55–62). Suntec, Singapore:
ACL and AFNLP
.
Swender, E. (2003). Oral proﬁciency testing in the real world: Answers to frequently asked
questions. Foreign Language Annals, 36(4), 520–26.
Tagarela. Retrieved from http://sifnos.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/tagarela
Taylor, G. (2005). Perceived processing strategies of students watching captioned video.
Foreign Language Annals, 38(3), 422–7
.
Tozcu, A. (2008). The use of interactive whiteboards in teaching non-Roman scripts.
Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(2), 143–66.
Ushida, E. (2007). Robo-Sensei personal Japanese tutor, version 1.0. CALICO Journal,
24(2), 408–20.
Van Buren, P
. (2008). Review of Rosetta Stone: Español (Latinoamérica). Hispania, 91(3),
633–5.
Vandergrift, L. (2007). Recent developments in second and foreign language listening
comprehension research. Language Teaching, 40, 191–210.
Vandergrift, L. (2008). Learning strategies for listening comprehension. In S. Hurd & T.
Lewis (Eds.), Language Learning Strategies in Independent Settings (pp. 84–102).
Bristol, England: Multilingual Matters.
Vanderplank, R. (1992). Non-native speaker viewers’ use of teletext subtitles in English:
Some exploratory studies. In G. Davies & M. Husey (Eds.), New technology in
language learning (pp. 89–102). Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Vlugter, P
., Knotta, A., McDonald, J., & Hall, C. (2009). Dialogue-based CALL: A case study
on teaching pronouns. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 22(2), 115–31.
Walker, G., & McGuiness, S. (1995). Learning less commonly taught languages: An
agreement on the basis of training for teachers. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University.
Pathway Series.
Warschauer, M., El Said, G. R., & Zohry, A. (2002). Language choice online: Globalization
and identity in Egypt. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 7(4).
Wikipedia (opening page). Retrieved from www.wikipedia.org/
Winke, P
., Gass, S., & Sydorenko, T. (2010). The effects of captioning videos used for
foreign language listening activities. Language Learning & Technology, 14(1), 65–86.
Wu, S., Franken, M., & Witten, I. (2009). Reﬁning the use of the Web (and Web search)
as a language teaching and learning resource. Computer Assisted Language Learning,
22(3), 249–68.
Yager, K. (1998). Learning Spanish in Mexico: The effect of informal contact and student
attitudes on language gain. Hispania, 81(4), 898–913.
Zengin, B. (2009). Beneﬁt of Google search engine in learning and teaching collocations.
Eurasian Journal of Educational Research, 34, 151–67
.
17
CALL and digital feedback
Paige Ware and Greg Kessler
Summary
In the ﬁeld of CALL research, the term digital feedback has been used in a variety
of ways. In some cases, feedback refers to individualized computer-based tutorials
programmed to offer information about a targeted set of discrete language skills such
as grammar or pronunciation. Other research has viewed technology not as a tutor,
but as the mode by which human feedback is delivered (Kern, Ware & Warschauer,
2004; Ware & Warschauer, 2006). Such research focuses on the various ways that
synchronous and asynchronous forms of interaction provide language users with
information on their language and content. This chapter examines recent research
across these various deﬁnitions of digital feedback with a speciﬁc focus on the
promotion of the skills of writing and speaking.
Introduction
The term digital feedback is not easily deﬁned. Scholars examining face-to-face
feedback on student writing and speaking have developed various deﬁnitions of
feedback according to particular pedagogical and theoretical orientations (see
discussion in Ferris, 2004; Hyland & Hyland, 2006). This chapter therefore begins by
situating digital feedback within an overview of three main dimensions of feedback:
mode of feedback delivery, focus of feedback provided and strategies for delivering
feedback (seeTable 17
.1).The subsequent review of current studies on digital feedback
reﬂects various combinations of these three dimensions as they pertain to feedback
on writing and on speaking.
The ﬁrst dimension pertains to mode of delivery. Early research on modes often
examined teacher and peer feedback provided through face-to-face discussions
as compared with delivery through various forms of technology-mediated delivery
(Kern & Warschauer, 2000). A range of technology modes were examined, such as
word-processing software, real-time chatting sessions and delayed-time interaction in
course management systems. Later research on mode of delivery introduced a new
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
324
TABLE 17.1 Three dimensions of feedback
Dimension 1: Modes of feedback delivery
Face-to-face feedback
Human feedback delivered
electronically
Computer-generated feedback
Writing or speaking workshop
Teacher response (one-on-one conferencing)
Classmate response (peer review)
Teacher response
Within-class peer response
Distally located peer response
Automated evaluation software
Automated scoring engines
Automated speech recognition
Automated speech transcription
Dimension 2: Focus of feedback provided
Error correction
Idea development
Genre awareness
Focus on morphological forms (verb forms, noun
endings, subject-verb agreement, etc.)
Focus on syntactic forms (fragments, punctuation,
missing words, redundancy, etc.)
Focus on lexical forms (spelling, pronouns, word
choice, informal register, idioms, etc.)
Focus on generating meaning by engaging in
discussions
Focus on global organization through phases of
drafting, responding and revising
Focus on awareness of register, rhetoric and audience
Focus on understanding variety of language and
literacy practices speciﬁc to particular contexts of use
Dimension 3: Strategies for delivering feedback
Instructor-directed strategies
Peer-interaction strategies
Autonomous strategies
Use of transcripts of student production or other
examples to draw attention to particular linguistic,
organizational and rhetorical features
Choice among feedback types: direct (changing
the error) or indirect (highlighting errors without
immediate correction)
Modelling of effective feedback strategies
Allowing peer comments to draw attention to
particular linguistic, communicative or interactional
features
Developing collaborative projects and apprenticeships
Focusing on form primarily as it impedes meaning
Producing multiple types of purposeful writing
Providing rubrics and evaluation guides
Providing sample essays
Encouraging autonomous editing
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 325
element, as the provider of feedback no longer needed to be the teacher or immediate
peers. Rather, the efﬁciency and affordability of network-based technologies allowed
for distally located peers to provide feedback, while the development of automated
software programs provided the option of computer-generated feedback (Ware &
Warschauer, 2006).
Theseconddimensionexaminesthefocusoffeedback.First,errorcorrectionresearch
locates the focus of feedback as students’ control of speciﬁc morphological, syntactic
and lexical forms. Error correction studies are typical in second language acquisition
(SLA) and second language (L2) writing research (Ferris, 2004, 2006) and examine key
questions on the provider of feedback (teachers, peers, computer or combination), the
feedback cycle (whether revisions are required or not), the explicitness of feedback
(direct correction of error or indirect awareness-raising of error), the frequency of
feedback and the type of error (Ferris, 2004). Two other major foci of feedback in
writing are on idea development and on genre awareness (Hyland & Hyland, 2006).
A focus on idea development, for example, was born out of composition theory and
suggests that feedback occurs as a discussion that helps writers generate meaning
and organize their ideas as they move through a process approach to writing: drafting,
receiving feedback, revising, receiving additional, feedback, editing and publishing.
Finally, situating genre as the focus of feedback seeks to foster greater audience and
register awareness by having students critically analyse the rhetorical strategies used
across genres within speciﬁc contexts of use (Gebhard & Harman, 2011). Research
that directly examines digital feedback on idea development and genre awareness for
essay writing is not frequent, yet two critical features of this dimension of feedback
include (1) the shift away from primary concerns with mechanical accuracy, and (2) the
movement towards a critical exploration of new genres beyond an emphasis on the
academic essay.
The third and ﬁnal dimension lays out three overarching instructional strategies:
instructor-directed,peer-interactionalandautonomous.Inface-to-faceclasses,language
instructors likely employ these strategies in combination. Where the strategies
primarily differ is a key issue in digital feedback, because the degree to which the
instructor is involved shifts, typically towards more peer-interactional and autonomous
strategies. In traditional instructor-directed strategies, for example, an instructor can
promote metacognitive awareness of linguistic, organizational or rhetorical features by
using transcripts of student discourse-generated online (Sengupta, 2001). However,
with the shift towards more peer interaction through chat rooms and asynchronous
discourse, peer-interactional strategies tend to dominate the feedback cycle (Ware
& Warschauer, 2006). Finally, autonomous strategies are the hallmark of computer-
generated feedback, as most automated evaluation programs rely on students to
interpret and act upon feedback with limited support from the teacher (Chen & Cheng,
2008; Dikli, 2006).
Across these three dimensions of feedback, what constitutes quality is still largely
undetermined, though a few patterns have emerged as promising (Ferris, 2004;
Hyland & Hyland, 2006). In L2 writing, for example, research on whether and how
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
326
error correction in L2 writing best takes place has been described as ‘incomplete
and inconsistent’ (Ferris, 2004, p. 49), yet Ferris offers several ‘predictions’ (ibid.)
about what might later prove important through empirical work: the need for the
systematic presence of feedback, an emphasis on providing indirect over direct
feedback, differentiation of feedback according to error types and the augmentation
of metacognitive and metalinguistic awareness among learners. Characteristics of
feedback on speaking that are viewed as inﬂuencing quality include the frequency
of feedback (Engwall & Bålter, 2007), the frequency of interruptions (McCrickard &
Chewar, 2003), the pace of correction (Eskenazi, 1999; Farmer, 2005), the timing of
feedback as occurring during or after speech (Engwall & Bålter, 2007) and the potential
for uptake and transfer (Eskenazi, 1999). Such considerations are unique to individual
learners and instructors, and cultural appropriateness is also likely to be a factor.
Digital feedback in CALL on writing
This section examines digital feedback on writing in the three areas in which much
of the research has taken place: computer-generated feedback through automated
software, electronically delivered peer feedback with a focus on form and electronically
delivered peer feedback with a focus on idea development.
Automated evaluation software:
From assessment to assistance
Computer-generated assessment is commonly referred to as automated machine
scoring or automated essay scoring. In terms of the dimensions laid out earlier, the
mode of feedback delivery is almost entirely computer-generated, and the focus
of feedback provided is primarily that of error correction, although pre-writing tools
also make available a focus on idea development. Finally, the strategies for providing
feedback rely almost entirely on student autonomy.
Computer-generated feedback allows for the provision of holistic and analytic scores
on student writing that are derived from mathematical models based on any combination
of organizational, stylistic and mechanical aspects of writing (for details see Brock,
1990, 1993; Burston, 2001; Chung & Baker, 2003; Leacock, 2004). Early models relied
on word counts, word anomalies, spelling aberrations and sentence length to calculate
a score (for an extended history, see Page, 2003; Warschauer & Ware, 2006), whereas
current approaches can detect lexical-grammatical errors (Chodorow & Leacock, 2000)
and awkward shifts between phrases (Miltsakaki & Kukich, 2000).
The tools offered include summative scoring as well as a range of formative
assessment features. Pre-writing tools include graphic organizers and sample essays
linked to scoring rubrics. During writing, students can access translation tools, writing
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 327
checklists, spell checkers, writing manuals, dictionaries and word banks. After essay
submission, students receive a combination of holistic and analytic trait scores, as well
as graphic bar chart displays and text-based pop-up boxes that provide explanations for
how to improve problematic areas. Newer versions of the programs allow for students
to interact asynchronously with their instructor by sending private messages that show
up as question ﬂags for the instructor’s feedback.
Instructors have ﬂexibility in managing the settings. They can choose between
importing their own prompts or selecting from a large number of prepared prompts
classiﬁed by grade level and by genre and can disable the automated summative scoring
feature. Computer-generated feedback can be enhanced or overridden by instructor
feedback using delivery mechanisms similar to those found in most word-processing
software programs such as track changes and insert comments. Time limits and limits
on the number of revisions possible can also be set. In short, automated feedback
programs bundle together many of the features that instructors might use when
providing feedback electronically to students through word-processing software or
email. A caveat in how the programs differ from these modes of electronic feedback,
however, is the software’s data storing capability, which allows for ease in longitudinal
tracking of student writing.
The research base on the impact of automated feedback programs on improving
student writing is limited but growing. Studies conducted by the developers suggest
that intensive use of the programs might impact writing scores on formal essay
features (Attali & Burstein, 2006; Elliot, Darlington & Mikulas, 2004; Lee, Gentile
& Kantor, 2010; Shermis & Burstein, 2003). A few recent classroom-based studies
(Chen & Cheng, 2008; Fang, 2010; Warschauer & Grimes, 2008), all using MYAccess!
software, have described the instructor’s role in implementation and in the perceptions
held by students. Chen and Cheng (2008) documented the differences in how three
post-secondary EFL teachers integrated the software and found that students who held
positive perceptions of the feedback were in a class in which the program was used on
a regular basis as a pre-writing and drafting tool, but not as an assessment mechanism.
Warschauer and Grimes’s (2008) study of secondary teachers showed that teachers
generally endorsed the programs, but nonetheless did not use them on a regular basis,
as pressure was high to prepare students for other state exams. Finally, Fang (2010)
found that post-secondary EFL students in Taiwan appreciated the program feedback
on form-related issues, though they felt it lacked as much assistance on organization
and content and were also sceptical about its usefulness as a grading tool.
Automated feedback programs provide a form of digital feedback that might
complement a larger, comprehensive instructional approach. Much is still to be learned,
however, about the contexts in which the programs are best used (Chen & Cheng,
2008), the learners for whom the feedback is optimal (Dikli, 2006), the possibility of
misuses of scoring systems to track students (Herrington & Moran, 2001) and the
potential of a washback effect on instruction (Cheville, 2004).
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
328
Error correction by peers: Focus on form studies
A subset of the large research base on focus-on-form feedback is comprised of studies
that embed a focus on form as learners interact through computers. The mode of
delivery in these studies is primarily human feedback delivered electronically through
peer response provided either by peers in the same class or by peers who are distally
located partners.The focus of feedback is on morphological, lexical and syntactic error
correction.The strategies are primarily peer interactional in which peers draw attention
to linguistic, communicative or interactional features as they occur in real-time or
delayed-time discussion.
Studies of corrective feedback between distally located peers are called a type of
telecollaborative partnerships that take place using synchronous interaction in chat
rooms or in asynchronous interaction through course management systems such
as Moodle or Blackboard. While the main focus of such telecollaborative projects
has typically been on developing intercultural competence (Belz, 2002; O’Dowd,
2003; Ware, 2005), a few researchers have launched an inquiry into the potential for
such exchanges to provide a forum for peers to provide corrective feedback, either
incidentally through ongoing written dialogue, or explicitly because of the instructor’s
course requirements.
Research on real-time interaction indicates that, although the medium provides
opportunities for peer feedback on form, learners tend to focus on meaning over
form. In his early study on chat-based corrective feedback, O’Rourke (2005) contends
that a weekly, semester-long synchronous exchange between students in Ireland and
Germany promoted opportunities for learners to develop metalinguistic awareness
of grammatical forms. However, in their study of a bilingual ‘e-Tandem’ project that
linked students in Japan and Australia for three chat sessions, Bower and Kawaguchi
(2011) analysed chat logs and found that learners focused mostly on communication,
not on the implicit provision of corrective feedback, except when given the task of
providing explicit corrective feedback on transcripts of their chat interactions. Similarly,
Sotillo (2005) found that learners using Yahoo! Messenger did indeed make feedback
available and did, at least in part, utilize the feedback within the context of the chat.
Finally, Darhower (2008) examined the linguistic affordances of a bilingual chat project
between students in North Carolina and Puerto Rico and concluded that, although
students reported satisfaction and engaged in some feedback, their typical interactions
were characterized by a focus on communication rather than a focus on form.
In examinations of delayed time, or asynchronous, interactions in telecollaborative
projects, researchers have also found that students typically focus on meaning, not on
the provision of feedback on forms. For example, Ware and O’Dowd (2008) analysed
transcripts of the asynchronous communication of students in Spain, Chile and the
United States by comparing two types of telecollaboration: one approach that required
students to provide a focus on form, and another approach that merely suggested a
focus on form without an instructional mandate. They found that only the group which
was given the explicit instructions to provide corrective feedback actually did so, and
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 329
even then only provided feedback on form sparingly. Paradoxically, despite the limited
attention students gave to one another’s language form, the majority of participants in
the project indicated in their surveys that they would have liked to receive feedback on
form from their partner.
While the above studies rely on transcripts of interaction, surveys and interview data,
a handful of researchers have used formal assessment to examine how such online
interactions might foster the possibility of learner uptake of particular forms. In one of
the ﬁrst of such studies, Smith (2005) found that task-based chatting did not seem to
lead to learner uptake of particular vocabulary, and he therefore cautioned instructors
to look for ‘nuances’ (p. 33) of successful uptake rather than to expect speciﬁc lexical
acquisition. Sauro (2009) investigated two types of corrective feedback, recasts and
metalinguistic information, on a group of 23 high intermediate and advanced learners
of English who engaged in online chatting with native English speakers. Using a pre-,
post- and delayed-post design that measured the omission of the zero article with
abstract non-count nouns, she found no statistically signiﬁcant advantage for either type
of feedback on immediate or sustained gains; however, the metalinguistic corrective
feedback group did show immediate signiﬁcant gains relative to the control group.
Sauro and Smith (2010) investigated whether and how learners use the added time for
planning during online chatting with their peers as an opportunity for self-correction.
They examined 23 post-secondary students learning German in dyadic task-based chat
and found that learners who self-corrected their own output after writing a message
showed signiﬁcantly greater lexical variety and linguistic complexity.
To summarize, research on error correction from peers in online chatting and in
asynchronous writing is still at an early stage. Studies have begun the process of
documenting the type of feedback and uptake in telecollaborative projects and in within-
class contexts and have come to the general conclusion that corrective feedback does
take place, but it occurs less frequently when not explicitly encouraged or mandated by
the teacher. In the cases in which it does occur, ﬁndings are inconclusive as to the short-
and long-term impact on learner uptake and retention of particular forms. Follow-up
research is needed to examine which types of peer feedback designs promote most
feedback, and whether and how such peer feedback opportunities might result in gains
on learners’ control of the targeted forms.
Idea development with peers: Academic essays,
blogs and wikis
Research reviewed in this section shares with the peer feedback studies above a mode
of delivery that is primarily peer-to-peer. However, the focus of feedback is mainly
on idea generation, rather than on error correction. Studies of feedback on academic
essays have focused on peer review online and on the instructor’s changing role in that
process.The next, more recent wave of studies examines newer technologies of blogs
and wikis in an expanded repertoire of writing genres.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
330
Peer review through online chatting and asynchronous writing has become a staple
of many writing classes. In a recent summary of research conducted on the potential for
asynchronous and synchronous electronic feedback to improve formal academic writing,
Ware and Warschauer (2006) concluded that studies showed that peer review online is
associated with a greater quantity of student writing, higher student motivation, a less
threatening environment and more instructor control over peer response (DiGiovanni
& Nagaswami, 2001; Kamhi-Stein, 2000; Tuzi, 2004). They document the convergence
of study ﬁndings that peers tend to provide stronger written feedback on local issues
at the mechanical or paragraph level, but that oral feedback tends to be the preferred
mode for advice on more global changes (Ho & Savignon, 2007; Schultz, 2000). They
describe teachers who have creatively used the transcripts of technology-mediated
peer review to accomplish a wider set of goals, including promoting student autonomy
(Lamy & Goodfellow, 1999), encouraging metalinguistic awareness (Yuan, 2003) and
raising student attention to audience and communicative purpose (Sengupta, 2001).
The instructor’s role in this shift towards human feedback delivered electronically
by peers has been an important area of study. In their study of a 22 post-secondary
ESL students in a writing class, for example, Guardado and Shi (2007) argue that
instructors likely need to play a stronger role during face-to-face instruction in order
to help maximize the beneﬁts of peer review sessions online. Even though student
comments on one another’s essays were balanced, students’ scepticism about peer
review in general and their avoidance of requests to clarify their peer review comments
manifested in what the researchers termed a ‘one-way communication process’
(p. 443). Also, Matsumura and Hann (2004) examined how computer anxiety might
impact the quality of EFL student writing. In study in which students were given the
choice between face-to-face teacher feedback and online peer and teacher feedback,
students who were anxious about online feedback did better when they were provided
with a choice over the preferred mode of feedback. Both of these studies underscore
the importance of the instructors’ role in making behind-the-scene pedagogical choices
about individual differences and about maximizing in-class time.
A few years ago, Ware and Warschauer (2006) noted that research in the area of
more interactive forums such as blogs and wikis had ‘just begun’ (p. 115), and indeed,
since then a number of studies has explored the potential of these newer technologies
to promote peer feedback. Research has focused on the choice of technology forum
for promoting formal academic writing (Kessler, 2009; Oladi, 2005; Woo, Chu, Ho & Li,
2011), and other work has emphasized writers’ perceptions of these modes rather than
their skill development per se (Bloch, 2007; Ducate & Lomicka 2008; Lowe & Williams,
2004; Mak & Coniam, 2008; Parks, Huot, Hamers & Lemonnier, 2003).
Research that addresses feedback on writing in blogs tends to focus either on
positive case-study experiences of individual students and classes or on descriptions
of how the literacy practices and types of feedback differ from more conventional
writing. Oladi (2005), for example, studied how students in Tehran interacted through
blogging and found that it tended to coincide with their conﬁdence in writing. Ducate
and Lomicka (2008) analysed data from a year-long project in which students wrote
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 331
and read blogs on a regular basis. They found that students explored different types
of self-expression and creativity, and the German and French participants obtained a
unique perspective on their partners’ culture. In his case study of a Somali immigrant
who used blogging in his writing class, Bloch (2007) argues that blogging may help
students become active producers of writing on the internet, in addition to serving
as a bridge into more academic writing. Lee (2006) documented two learners of
Korean who self-reported an increase in their proﬁciency and in their comfort level in
receiving feedback. For the most part, these studies document positive perceptions of
participants and high student enthusiasm for blogging.
Research on wikis is of particular interest to instructors interested in peer feedback on
formal writing, as wikis have been described as promoting ‘more formal, topic-centric,
depersonalized interaction’ (Warschauer & Grimes, 2007
, p. 12). The structure of wikis
creates a writing environment that is distinct from either asynchronous or synchronous
modes, which rely on some form of turn-taking. Rather, wikis allow for students to
collaboratively create and edit a document, and instructors can track each individual’s
contribution.
The medium itself, then, seems to shift students away from conventional norms
of authorship and towards more autonomy in their writing. Kessler (2009) examined
students’ attention to form in collaborative wiki writing among in-service EFL teachers
in Mexico who were encouraged, but not required, to make use of a course wiki as
they developed their English writing proﬁciency on a variety of topics across a 16-week
period. He found that students did, in fact, attend to one another’s grammatical forms,
but almost exclusively when such attention to form impeded meaning. In follow-up
interviews, he asked if participants knew the correct form of particular errors in the
wiki; they did, in fact, but indicated that unless meaning was impeded, such errors were
better left unaddressed, leading Kessler to conclude that there may be an ‘acceptable
level of tolerance for errors’ (p. 91) as students focus the bulk of their attention to
meaning and to design.
In a similar use of the wiki as an autonomous learner space, Mak and Coniam
(2008) emphasize the potential for wikis to promote creative, authentic, collaborative
writing. They describe the phases of writing, editing and publishing that grade 7
ESL learners in Hong Kong moved through, ‘with minimal input and support from
their teachers’ (p. 437) as they collaboratively created a brochure of their school. In a
case study of a class of ﬁfth-grade EFL students in Hong Kong, Woo, Chu, Ho and Li
(2011) examined participants’ perceptions of writing and found it useful for fostering
teamwork, enjoyment and scaffolding. The teacher also used the tracking features as
a formative feedback opportunity to better determine the areas of writing in which
students needed support and editing feedback.
In sum, interactive writing technologies may well be opening up different notions of
what constitutes writing instruction, feedback on writing and the nature of writing itself
(Godwin-Jones, 2003; Richardson, 2006; Warschauer & Grimes, 2007). Warschauer
and Grimes make a strong case that these newer technologies are shifting three main
areas of writing: audience, authorship and artefact.They argue that blogs, for example,
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
332
reach a much wider audience than ever before and promote a view of the text as
‘dialogic interaction’ (p. 16). The new environments of blogs are viewed as potential
sites for peer feedback, particularly to encourage peer interaction strategies such as
drawing attention to linguistic, communicative and interactional features and to develop
collaborative projects and writing apprenticeships. Wikis are seen as collaborative
spaces that might foster learner autonomy as well as opportunities for joint authorship
in the social construction of texts and of norms for interpreting and valuing those texts
(Kessler, 2009; Mak & Coniam, 2008; Warschauer & Grimes, 2007).
Digital feedback in CALL on speaking
The second section explores digital feedback in tasks focused upon speaking and
pronunciation. Although this research base is less extensive than that of digital feedback
on writing, over the past decade there has been a noticeable increase in Web-based
oral skills development. With the introduction of technologies such as Flash and Java
that support the exchange of video and audio, there has been a rise in the use of new
tools to support oral skills and a consequent increase in research that examines both
automated as well as human-delivered modes of feedback.
Automated feedback on speaking
Many projects have incorporated automated speech recognition (ASR) to produce
automated feedback for language learners. Notable among these are the automated
system for accent reduction (AZAR), TELL ME MORE®, My English Teacher (MyET)
and the Carnegie Mellon FLUENCY project.While other systems have been developed,
there has been little evidence of research into their use or effectiveness. Therefore,
these will serve as samples for the purpose of this discussion.
Recent systems developed through the lineage of the FLUENCY project include
NativeAccent®, SpeakIraqi™, SpeakFarsi™ and SpeakRussian™, which all share the
same interface and functionality.According to the company that created these products,
Carnegie Speech (2011), they offer, ‘pinpointed speech analysis [that] provides users
with immediate, understandable and actionable feedback, and the Intelligent Tutor
personalizes NativeAccent® speech training’ (n.p.). Figure 17
.1 is a screenshot from
Native Accent that illustrates feedback following a student’s incorrect production of a
word-initial /m/ sound.
As Figure 17
.1 illustrates, while the intelligent tutor within the Native Accent
system does an assessment to determine which segmental and suprasegmental
characteristics an individual student needs to work on, this feedback is the same
for all users with an error regarding word-initial /m/. This lack of individualized
situation-speciﬁc detail in automated feedback is common. In fact, Chen (2011)
revisited the FLUENCY project and found that teachers requested signiﬁcant
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 333
improvements to the feedback system, particularly regarding speciﬁc details about
segmentals and suprasegmentals.While there has been a generally positive response
from students using these systems for extensive pronunciation practice, the one
consistent complaint has related to the limited nature of feedback (Chen, 2006;
Chiu, Liou & Yeh, 2007; Liao, 2009). Some previous researchers have discussed the
implications of a student’s ability to adjust the acceptability threshold within these
systems. While this may result in more accurate recognition, the feedback is largely
unaffected. Further, students may be likely to adjust this as either too accepting or
too demanding based on their emotional choices rather than on their language needs
(Chen, 2001, 2011; O’Brien, 2006).
Another sample project is the AZAR Project for teaching German, which utilizes a lip
recognition process that provides distinct user feedback, including lip width and height.
This system provides students with visual feedback related to these phenomena. One
study into the use of this system examined native Russian speakers who were learning
German (Jokisch, Koloska, Hirschfeld & Hoffman, 2005). Their article highlights the
unique nature of the AZAR system, which is based upon lip recognition. Investigation
into its use concluded that varied means of feedback provides additional beneﬁcial
information to students.
Recent developments in ASR have found their way into various mainstream
products, including those used for dictation and automated phone systems. Google®
Voice offers a free voicemail transcription service that can be integrated with an
existing or virtual phone number. Using English, the system automatically identiﬁes
clearly understood speech with dark black text while speech that is not understood
is grayed.
FIGURE 17.1 NativeAccent® Feedback for Word Initial /m/.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
334
This means of automated feedback may be most beneﬁcial when integrated
within a classroom context, as research has concluded that even when students are
satisﬁed with automated feedback, they may still be concerned about the ability to be
understood by native speakers (Hirata, 2004). Further, Chen (2011) identiﬁed that the
rigidity of exercises using automated feedback did not allow for individual learner’s
interlanguage production, a concern that can be addressed by classroom teachers.
Human-generated feedback on speaking
In recent years we have witnessed the development of numerous opportunities for
human-generated digital speech interaction. Many of the same principles that apply
to feedback in automated systems should be considered in a mode of delivery that
is delivered by people. In fact, it may be more difﬁcult to predict, manage and track
the feedback provided by teachers and student peers, since they are likely to respond
on occasion in ways that are potentially distracting, demanding, emotional, personal
or confusing. Further, due to the limited nature of feedback provided by automated
systems, it may be most important that instructors are able to intervene when
necessary and elaborate upon feedback.
Some recent technologies that have expanded the potential for human-generated
oral production feedback include both free and commercial products as well as
standaloneWeb-based tools, subscription services and tools embedded within learning
management systems (LMS) such as Moodle and Blackboard. Figure 17
.2 provides
an example of feedback in an Indonesian language class within the Moodle Module
Nanogong.
The Moodle/Nanogong combination allows students to record their speech, and
the teacher clicks on the speaker icon to listen. Students can leave messages for the
teacher as well. The teacher can leave comments, a grade and their own response
message.The interaction is organized in tabular format for each assignment in a course.
Another example within an LMS context is the Portable (PoodLL). While the Moodle/
Nanogong and Moodle/PoodLL combination was designed for instructional use, it was
not intended speciﬁcally for language learning, but CALL has often beneﬁted from
adopting such technology tools intended for varied purposes and audiences to ﬁt the
Student Name 1
Student Name 2
Submit Date
Submit Date
Message
Message Comments
Comments Score
Score
Friday, 19 November 2010, 11:09 AM
Friday, 19 November 2010, 01:31 PM
Pemdapat saya dari presentasi oleh Katie
Sangat baik 100
Memperlambat 95
FIGURE 17.2 Moodle/Nangong audio recording and teacher feedback.
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 335
ﬁeld’s needs. Other examples of similar voice boards include Wimba (www.wimba.
com/assets/videos/VoiceBoard/ VoiceBoard.html) and Voxopop (www.voxopop.com).
Engwall and Bålter (2007) compared pronunciation feedback between real and virtual
language teachers. They noted that some successful strategies used by automated
systems would not succeed when used by teachers (and vice versa). They noted
that the lack of corrective feedback within class might necessitate the integration of
automated feedback. Consequently, automated feedback may best be used out of
class. They suggest that students may beneﬁt most when they are allowed to deﬁne
the amount of feedback they receive from an automated system. Allowing students
to make decisions about their feedback interaction is likely to enhance their overall
experience.
Challenges and future expectations of feedback on speaking
One limitation that has been recognized across a range of automated feedback systems
is the lack of distinct individualized feedback (Engwall & Bålter, 2007; Mitra, Inamdar &
Dixond, 2003). While a wide variety of automated responses may be available within a
system, there is often a gap between the speciﬁc feedback needs of a learner and the
information offered by the system. It is quite possible that language teachers without
extensive phonological knowledge and experience working with feedback may also lack
the ability to provide the optimal information in any given situation. This is particularly
likely given that numerous researchers have concluded that language teachers are
often inadequately prepared to teach pronunciation (Derwing & Munro, 2005). It is also
important that teachers recognize the beneﬁts of ASR systems and make attempts
to incorporate them into instruction as is appropriate. Due to the limited nature of
feedback offered by these systems, they are most likely to be useful when used in the
context of a language class. Technologies will continue to be developed that support
teachers in providing quality feedback that is accessible and appropriate for individual
learners.
Conclusions
This chapter has presented an overview of the scholarship that has examined the role
of feedback in the language classroom in both writing and speaking contexts. Different
perspectives, purposes and implementation practices in using digital feedback inform
this wide range of research. The research and practice presented here offer a starting
point for understanding the role of feedback in the teaching of writing and speaking.
As research, pedagogy and automated technologies continue to receive scholarly
attention, convergence on some of the dimensions explored here is likely to take
place and offer a better understanding of optimal feedback conditions across language
learning contexts, learners and modes of delivery. There is still much to be learned
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
336
about what constitutes quality and effective feedback across the three dimensions
of mode of delivery, focus of feedback provided and strategies for feedback delivery.
However, the growth in technological tools that provide new modes for delivery and
expanded strategies for providing feedback make this area of research an intriguing
ﬁeld of inquiry for CALL researchers.
References
Attali, Y., & Burstein, J. (2006). Automated essay scoring with e-rater v.2. Journal of
Technology, Learning and Assessment, 4(3), 1–30.
Belz, J. A. (2002). Social dimensions of telecollaborative foreign language study. Language
Learning & Technology, 6(1), p. 60–81.
Bloch, J. (2007). Abdullah’s blogging: A generation 1.5 student enters the blogosphere.
Language Learning & Technology, 11(2), 128–41.
Bower, J., & Kawaguchi, S. (2011). Negotiation of meaning and corrective feedback in
Japanese/English eTandem. Language Learning & Technology, 15(1), 41–71.
Brock, M. (1990). Customizing a computerized text analyzer for ESL writers: Cost versus
gain. CALICO Journal, 8(2), 51–60.
— (1993). Three disk-based text analyzers and the ESL writer. Journal of Second Language
Writing, 2(1), 19–40.
Burston, J. (2001). Computer-mediated feedback in composition correction. CALICO
Journal, 19(1), 37–50.
Carnegie Speech (2011). Native Accent. Retrieved from www.carnegiespeech.com/
products/nativeaccent.php
Chen, H-J. (2001). Evaluating ﬁve speech recognition programs for ESL learners. Paper
presented at the ITMELT 2001 Conference, Hong Kong. Retrieved from http://elc.polyu.
edu.hk/ conference/papers2001/chen.htm
— (2011). Developing and evaluating an oral skills training website supported by automatic
speech recognition technology. ReCALL, 23(1), 59–78.
Chen, M-W. (2006). The impact of automatic speech technology on contrastive stress
among adult EFL learners. Unpublished Masters thesis, Da-Yeh University.
Chen, C-F
., & Cheng, W-Y. (2008). Beyond the design of automated writing evaluation:
Pedagogical practices and perceived learning effectiveness in EFL writing classes.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(2), 94–112.
Cheville, J. (2004). Automated scoring technologies and the rising inﬂuence of error.
English Journal, 93(4), 47–52.
Chiu, T., Liou, H., & Yeh, Y. (2007) A study of Web-based oral activities enhanced by
automatic speech recognition for EFL college learning. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 20(3), 209–33.
Chodorow, M., & Leacock, C. (2000). An unsupervised method for detecting grammatical
errors. In Proceedings of the 1st Annual Meeting of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (pp. 140–7).
Chung, K. W. K., & Baker, E. L. (2003). Issues in the reliability and validity of automated
scoring of constructed responses. In M. D. Shermis & J. C. Burstein (Eds.), Automated
essay scoring: A cross-disciplinary perspective (pp. 23–39). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 337
Darhower, M. (2008). The role of linguistic affordances in telecollaborative chat. CALICO
Journal, 26, 48–69.
Derwing, T. M., & Munro, M. J. (2005). Second language accent and pronunciation
teaching: A research-based approach. TESOL Quarterly, 39(3), 379–97
.
DiGiovanni, E., & Nagaswami, G. (2001). Online peer review: An alternative to face-to-
face? ELT Journal, 55(3), 263–72.
Dikli, S. (2006). An overview of automated scoring of essays. Journal of Technology,
Learning, and Assessment, 5(1), 1–35.
Ducate, L., & Lomicka, L. (2008). Adventures in the blogosphere: From blog readers to
blog writers. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 21(1), 9–28.
Elliot, S., Darlington, K., & Mikulas, C. (2004). But does it really work? A national study of
MYAccess! Effectiveness. Paper presented at the National Council on Measurement in
Education in San Diego, CA. April, 2004.
Engwall, O., & Bålter, O. (2007). Pronunciation feedback from real and virtual language
teachers. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 20(3), 235–62.
Eskenazi, M. (1999). Using automatic speech processing for foreign language
pronunciation tutoring: Some issues and a prototype. Language Learning & Technology,
2(2), 62–76.
Fang, Y. (2010). Perceptions of the computer-assisted writing program among EFL college
learners. Educational Technology & Society, 13(3), 246–56.
Farmer, R. A. (2005). Multimodal speech recognition errors and second language
acquisition: An activity theoretic account. Sixieme colloque des Usages des Nouvelles
Technologies dans l’Enseignement des Langues Etrangeres (UNTELE).
Ferris, D. (2004). The grammar correction debate in L2 writing: Where are we, and where
do we go from here? (and what do we do in the meantime . . . ?). Journal of Second
Language Writing, 13, 49–62.
— (2006). Does error feedback help student writers? New evidence on the short-and
long-term effects of written error correction. In K. Hyland & F
. Hyland (Eds.), Feedback on
ESL writing: Context and issues (pp. 81–104). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gebhard, M., & Harman, R. (2011). Reconsidering genre theory in K-12 schools: A
response to school reform in the United States. Special Edition of Journal of Second
Language Writing, 20(1), 45–55.
Godwin-Jones, R. (2003). Blogs and wikis: Environments for online collaboration.
Language Learning & Technology, 7(2), 12–16.
Guardado, M., & Shi, L. (2007). ESL students’ experiences of online peer feedback.
Computers and Composition, 24, 443–61.
Herrington, A., & Moran, C. (2001). What happens when machines read our students’
writing? College English, 63(4), 480–99.
Hirata Y. (2004). Computer assisted pronunciation training for native English speakers
learning Japanese pitch and duration contrasts. Computer Assisted Language Learning,
17(3), 357–76.
Ho, M-C., & Savignon, S. J. (2007). Face-to-face and computer-mediated peer review in
EFL writing. CALICO Journal, 24(2), 269–90.
Hyland, K., & Hyland, F
. (2006). Feedback in second language writing: Contexts and
issues. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Kamhi-Stein, L. D. (2000). Looking to the future of TESOL teacher education: Web-based
bulletin board discussions in a methods course. TESOL Quarterly, 34, 423–55.
Kern, R., & Warschauer, M. (2000). Theory and practice of network-based language
teaching. In M. Warschauer & R. Kern (Eds.), Network-based language teaching:
Concepts and practice (pp. 1–19). New York: Cambridge University Press.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
338
Kern, R., Ware, P
., & Warschauer, M. (2004). Crossing frontiers: New directions in online
pedagogy and research. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 24, 243–60.
Kessler, G. (2009). Student-initiated attention to form in wiki-based collaborative writing.
Language Learning & Technology, 13(1), 79–95.
Jokisch, O., Koloska, U., Hirschfeld, D., & Hoffmann, R. (2005). Pronunciation learning
and foreign accent reduction by an audiovisual feedback system. Proceedings of 1st
Intern. Conference on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction (ACII), Beijing
(pp. 419–25).
Lamy, M.-N., & Goodfellow, R. (1999). ‘Reﬂective conversation’ in the virtual language
classroom. Language Learning & Technology, 2(2), 43–61.
Leacock, C. (2004). Scoring free-responses automatically: A case study of a large-scale
assessment. Examens, 1(3).
Lee, L. (2006). A study of native and nonnative speakers’ feedback and responses in
Spanish-American networked collaborative interaction. In J. Belz & S. Thorne (Eds.),
Internet-mediated intercultural foreign language education (pp. 147–76). Boston, MA:
Thomson & Heinle.
Lee, Y-W., Gentile, C., & Kantor, R. (2010). Toward automated multi-trait scoring of essays:
Investigating links among holistic, analytic, and text feature scores. Applied Linguistics,
31(3), 391–417
.
Liao, C. F
. (2009). EFL Learners’ use of contrastive stress supported with automatic
speech analysis system. Unpublished Masters Thesis, Da-Yeh University.
Mak, B., & Coniam, D. (2008). Using wikis to enhance and develop writing skills among
secondary school students in Hong Kong. System, 36, 437–55.
Matsumura, S., & Hann, G. (2004). Computer anxiety and students’ preferred feedback
methods in EFL writing. The Modern Language Journal, 88, 403–15.
McCrickard, D. S., & Chewar, C. M. (2003). Attuning notiﬁcation design to user goals and
attention costs. Communication of the ACM, 46(3), 67–72.
Miltsakaki, E., & Kukich, K. (2000). Automated evaluation of coherence in student essays.
Paper presented at LREC-2000, Linguistic Resources in Education Conference. Athens,
Greece.
Mitra, S., Tooley, J., Inamdar, P
., & Dixond, P
. (2003). Improving English pronunciation:
An automated instructional approach. Information Technologies & International
Development, 1(1), 75–84.
O’Brien, M. (2006). Teaching pronunciation and intonation with computer technology.
In L. Ducate & N. Arnold (Eds.), Calling on CALL: From theory and research to new
directions in foreign language teaching (pp. 1–20). San Marcos, TX: Computer Assisted
Language Instruction Consortium.
O’Dowd, R. (2003). Understanding the ‘other side’: Intercultural learning in a
Spanish-English email exchange. Language Learning & Technology, 7(2), 118–44.
O’Rourke, B. (2005). Form-focused interaction in online tandem learning. CALICO Journal,
22, 433–66.
Oladi, S. (2005). Study of Tehran medical students’ social interaction in cyber blogging
environment and its effect on IELTS writing proﬁciency. Unpublished Masters thesis.
Tehran University, Tehran.
Page, E. (2003). Project essay grade: PEG. In M. D. Shermis & J. Burstein (Eds.),
Automated essay scoring: A cross-disciplinary perspective (pp. 43–54). Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Parks, S., Huot, D., Hamers, J., & Lemmonier, F
. (2003). Crossing boundaries: Multimedia
technology and pedagogical innovation in a high school class. Language Learning &
Technology, 7(1), 28–45.
CALL AND DIGITAL FEEDBACK 339
Richardson, W. (2006). Blogs, wikis, podcasts, and other powerful Web tools for
classrooms. Newbury Park, CA: Corwin Press.
Sauro, S. (2009). Computer-mediated corrective feedback and the development of L2
grammar. Language Learning & Technology, 13(1), 96–120.
Sauro, S., & Smith, B. (2010). Investigating L2 performance in text chat. Applied
Linguistics, 31(4), 554–77
.
Schultz, J. M. (2000). Computers and collaborative writing in the foreign language
curriculum. In M. Warschauer & R. Kern (Eds.), Network-based language learning:
Concepts and practice (pp. 121–50). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Sengupta, S. (2001). Exchanging ideas with peers in network-based classrooms: An aid or
a pain? Language Learning & Technology, 5(1), 103–34.
Shermis, M. D., & Burstein, J. (2003). Introduction. Automated essay scoring: A
cross-disciplinary perspective (pp. xiii–xvi). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,
Inc.
Smith, B. (2005). The relationship between negotiated interaction, learner uptake, and
lexical acquisition in task-based computer-mediated communication. TESOL Quarterly,
39(1), 33–58.
Sotillo, M. S. (2005). Corrective feedback via instant messenger learning activities in
NS-NNS and NNS-NNS dyads. CALICO Journal, 22(3), 467–96.
Tuzi, F
. (2004). The impact of e-feedback on the revisions of L2 writers in an academic
writing course. Computers and Composition, 21, 217–35.
Ware, P
. (2005). ‘Missed’ communication in online communication: Tensions in a
German-American telecollaboration. Language Learning & Technology, 9(2), 64–89.
Ware, P
., & O’Dowd, R. (2008). Peer feedback on language form in telecollaboration.
Language Learning & Technology, 12(1), 43–63.
Ware, P
., & Warschauer, M. (2006). Electronic feedback and second language writing.
In K. Hyland & F
. Hyland (Eds.), Feedback on ESL writing: Context and issues (pp.
105–22). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2007). Audience, authorship, and artifact: The emergent
semiotics of Web 2.0. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 27(1), 1–23.
— (2008). Automated writing assessment in the classroom. Pedagogies, 3(1), 52–67
.
Warschauer, M., & Ware, P
. (2006). Automated writing evaluation: Deﬁning the classroom
research agenda. Language Teaching Research, 10(2), 1–24.
Woo, M., Chu, S., Ho, A., & Li, X. (2011). Using a wiki to scaffold primary school students’
collaborative writing. Journal of Educational Technology & Society, 14(1), 43–54.
Yuan, Y. (2003). The use of chat rooms in an ESL setting. Computers and Composition, 20,
194–206.
18
Task-based language
teaching and CALL
Michael Thomas
Summary
At the same time as computer-assisted language learning (CALL) has developed
over the last three decades, task-based language teaching (TBLT) has emerged
as one of the most important methodologies in second and foreign language learning.
The chapter provides a brief overview of the relationship between CALL and TBLT
focusing on the extant and potential pedagogical implications. The review suggests
that both have a great deal to learn from each other, particularly in relation to the
design, sequence and understanding of tasks, as well as the behaviour of learners
in a task cycle. In the second half of the chapter, the potential relationship between
CALL andTBLT is analysed via a case study of a group of Japanese learners of English
and their use of Web 2.0 digital media applications. Two of the aims of the study
were to examine L2 learner identity and the challenges faced by learners within a
task-based environment utilizing technology. The research found that (1) contrary to
essentialist accounts of Asian English language learners as resistant to interactive
learning environments, learners were highly engaged by the collaborative task-based
approach and were successful at producing completed tasks in English, but (2) they
remained over-reliant on their L1 (Japanese) during the planning and processing phases
of the technology-enhanced tasks. The latter ﬁnding calls into question the ability of
the learners to beneﬁt from a task-based approach if their existing language skills are
insufﬁciently developed.
Introduction
Often seen as a natural evolution of the communicative language teaching approach
(CLT), TBLT has been growing in inﬂuence since the early 1980s (Van den Branden,
Bygate & Norris, 2009). TBLT is concerned with a process-based language learning
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
342
pedagogy that emphasizes the importance of learner communication in the target
language and attempts to embody these principles by designing highly structured syllabi
and curricula with clear objectives for instructors and learners. While understanding
linguistic forms remains important, meaning is considered primary and real-world tasks
are used to establish the importance of authentic learning environments (Ellis, 2003).
TBLT is an experiential approach to language learning, as exempliﬁed by the Digital
Kitchen project at the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, United Kingdom, where
researchers have developed a fully functioning kitchen with sophisticated sensor
technology to teach learners French while also engaged in their weekly catering
course (Price, 2011; Seedhouse, Ali, Jackson, Ploetz & Olivier, 2011). By following
the steps in the recipe and interacting with real cooking equipment, learners’ actions
activate audio recordings of the instructions in French. As the Digital Kitchen suggests,
TBLT is based on the principle that by engaging the learners in real processes they
will be able to interact, enhance their motivation for language learning and engage
in negotiation of meaning in the target language. As Seedhouse argues, the Digital
Kitchen ‘tackles the fundamental problems you have when learning a language. In a
classroom you’re only rehearsing it; the kitchen means that people can learn language
while they’re performing a real-world task’ (Price, 2011, n.p.). It is typical therefore to
seeTBLT described as a combination of communicative tasks, non-linguistic goals and
engagement in real-world activities, as Seedhouse continues
If you take the approach that we’re using – which is task-based learning and teaching.
. . . The basic idea is that you learn a language best while you’re engaged in a
physical task, performing something tangible rather than the way we traditionally
think of foreign languages being taught in a classroom, where the teacher tells you
how to put a sentence together. It’s not terribly motivating for most people. It’s
not something physically real. Whereas the kitchen, in effect, is taking task-based
learning out of the classroom and into the kitchen. (Price, 2011, n.p.)
The Digital Kitchen project would appear to be one way of developing a relationship
between technology and TBLT, though one that is dependent on highly sophisticated
and expensive technology at the current time. Such an innovative project is clearly
not an option in many language teaching contexts, particularly outside the developed
world or in low-tech contexts (see Gonzales & St. Louis, this volume). While the Digital
Kitchen project demonstrates the instructional goals of the process-oriented approach,
the project also foregrounds a number of signiﬁcant challenges forTBLT.These include
the fact that learners are typically asked to engage withTBLT in their normal classrooms,
an assumption that requires them to suspend knowledge of their actual context and
to imagine they are somewhere else (Ellis, 2003). This attempt to replicate real-work
environments though admirable can be difﬁcult to realize in traditional teaching
contexts, where learners are more fully conscious of their location and its parameters
and thus ﬁnd it challenging to be immersed in their environment, particularly if it is an
EFL one (e.g., a Chinese person studying English in China). Other challenges relate
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 343
to the characteristics required of learners in TBLT, such as more independence and
conﬁdence in the target language, as well as simple classroom management issues
facing teachers if they are required to control large classes of foreign language learners
who may all be talking at the same time.
Historically the emergence of TBLT coincided with that of personal computers in
educational institutions. Strikingly, however, research over the last three decades often
reveals that CALL andTBLT have been running in parallel lines that rarely crossed until
the mid-1990s. From that point onwards, more research started to be undertaken and
it has sought to uncover ways in which TBLT can provide a pedagogical framework
or rationale for work in CALL, as well as how CALL can help to overcome a number
of the challenges and critiques aimed at TBLT (Chapelle, 2001; Ellis, 2003; Lai & Li,
2011; Ortega, 2009). In this more recent research it is clear that ﬁve areas of interest
can be identiﬁed, including learner motivation, opportunities to develop authentic
environments, the use of digital feedback, opportunities to afford learners’ greater
choices and the potential to participate in enriched learner communities (Ortega,
2009).
The role of computer-mediated communication (CMC) has played a central
role in these ﬁve areas and offers learners opportunities to engage in real-time
communication (via synchronous text and instant messaging) as well as reﬂective
engagement via asynchronous applications (such as discussion forums and email).
While research has discussed a number of points at the intersection of SLA and
TBLT, including noticing, negotiation of meaning, and strategies for focusing on form
(Skeehan, 2003), the approaches have often developed pedagogical practices that
would be more appropriate for presence-based learning contexts than for those
required by technology-mediated environments (Hampel, 2005). A second gap in
existing research relates to the lack of studies on TBLT and CALL in non-Western
contexts such as Asia. Typically essentialist arguments suggest that Asian learners
demonstrate greater passivity in instructional contexts such that they would not ﬁt
well with task-based approaches (Vallance, 2009). Consequently, TBLT may be more
challenging with Asian learners who are considered to be more reliant on teacher
direction. Third, more research is required on lower-level learners, who simply do not
possess the language skills to interact in sophisticated ways regardless of whether
the environment is authentic or not.
In her keynote address at the TBLT 2009 conference, Ortega argued that future
research on TBLT and technology needs to consider more ‘real-world’ spaces such
as online ‘open social spaces, gaming, [and] immersive environments’ if the potential
encounter is to be realized. This chapter is divided into three sections, the ﬁrst two
of which focus on providing a brief overview of research on TBLT and CALL and the
pedagogical implications of TBLT for CALL. In the ﬁnal part, and by way of a response
to Ortega (2009), case-study research utilizing Web 2.0 collaborative technologies
with lower-intermediate-level Asian learners of English in an EFL setting in Japan is
discussed, focusing in particular on howTBLT with technology can inﬂuence L2 learner
identity.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
344
Task-based language teaching (TBLT)
The provenance of task-based approaches lies outside language learning and in
more general theories of education which underline the importance of experiential or
‘hands-on’ learning. The American philosopher of education, John Dewey, is typically
identiﬁed as an inﬂuential early advocate ofTBL and there are strong interrelationships
between his notion of problem-based learning, the value of experience, enhancing
learner motivation and task-based approaches. Dewey’s (1938) philosophy of
education was collaborative in outlook, emphasizing that meaning emerges from
collective experience and the willingness of people to work together. It also attempted
to deconstruct prevailing binary thinking that marginalized the value of experience or
practical knowledge in relation to theoretical knowledge. Engaging learners rather than
wasting their time on impractical tasks that are likely to have no bearing on their lives
or work was a central organizing principle for Dewey, such thatTBL is expected to draw
on the rich experience learners already have. Task-based approaches are therefore not
new and there is thus a strong line of inﬂuence running from Dewey to Bruner (1960)
through to constructivist thought (Vygotsky, 1978) and contemporary TBL.
In language learning, TBL owes a great deal to early research by Prabhu (1987)
who posited the importance of problem-solving activities and the task as a structuring
principle of syllabus design in opposition to the then prevalent form of linguistic syllabus,
which was organized according to the linear mastery of linguistic forms. Prabhu’s early
work in India has clear lines of inﬂuence from interactionist theories in SLA theory
to sociocultural and ecological approaches which also place an emphasis on learner
interaction, the importance of the learning environment for supporting and scaffolding
learner development and the real-world implications of the process.
TBLT, then, evolved by placing an emphasis on interaction, cognitive processing
and authentic language use through negotiation of meaning (Bygate, Skehan & Swain,
2001; Nunan, 2004). Long (1990) focused on meaning negotiation in relation to problem-
solving tasks. Pica, Kanagy and Falodun (1993) similarly indicated that negotiation of
meaning is related to increased levels of interactive tasks. Research on interactive tasks
emphasized how they produced greater complexity and accuracy in terms of output
than non-interactive tasks, which tended to focus more on ﬂuency (Skehan & Foster,
1997). Moreover, research on task planning indicates that it improves performance in
accuracy and ﬂuency (Ortega, 1999). Other important areas of research include the use
of task repetition to enhance syntactic quality and use of the target language. Research
on task-based approaches, as Willis (1996) argued, emphasizes the importance of
exposure to authentic input, and sustained meaningful use of the target language for
aiding output and learner motivation. In this respect Klapper’s (2003) deﬁnition of task
has become inﬂuential and representative of this approach:
Tasks . . . are meaning-based activities closely related to learners’ actual
communicative needs and with some real-world relationship, in which learners have
to achieve a genuine outcome (solve a problem, reach a consensus, complete a
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 345
puzzle, play a game etc.) and in which effective completion of the tasks is accorded
priority. (p. 35)
To this deﬁnition we must also add the dimension of learner–learner collaboration
and what Meskill (1999) calls sociocollaborative learning tasks. Based on this wider
deﬁnition it is also worthwhile to highlight Lamy’s (2007) deﬁnition, one which strikes a
cord with Ortega’s (2009) interest in the collective problem-solving aspects associated
with Web-based gaming and immersive environments. According to this broader
working deﬁnition, which is highly cognizant of the potential of technology to produce
sociocollaborative interaction, Lai and Li (2011) suggest that tasks should be seen as
‘holistic activities in which learners make use of their language and (cross-) cultural and
communicative resources to achieve some nonlinguistic outcome through stretching
their linguistic, (cross-) cultural, internet-based communication, and digital literacy
skills’ (p. 502).
TBLT and CALL: Reality and potential
As the Digital Kitchen project reminds us, technology can provide opportunities to
transcend the limitations of the traditional classroom context. Online materials and
applications can signiﬁcantly enhance the types, authenticity and range of tasks that
learners engage in. Moreover, through Web 2.0 technologies likes blogs and wikis
and other collaborative tools, learners can emphasize their creative skills, author and
produce outputs for an external audience and engage in activities which underline
their active rather than passive participation (Lankshear & Knobel, 2011). Technology
can promote learner agency in language learning contexts, corroborating constructivist
goals and marginalizing the notion that learners are merely empty vessels to be ﬁlled
with knowledge poured into them by more knowledgeable instructors.
Earlier research by Chun (1994) and Kern (1995) suggests that learners in CMC
environments found them to be more motivating and resulted in lower levels of learner
anxiety than interacting in presence-based environments. Abrams’ (2003) ﬁndings
indicate that synchronous CMC could enhance the amount of output produced by
learners. In terms of the quality of output, there is also research which argues that
text-based chatting can result in enhanced accuracy and complexity of target language
use (Salaberry, 2000). One of the main foci of research on CMC in language learning
contexts has been on the differences between synchronous and asynchronous
performance. Studies indicate an opportunity for real-time spoken CMC to produce
creative dialogues and conversation (Hwang, 2008), whereas written asynchronous
studies have found that learners beneﬁt from greater opportunities to reﬂect on their
outputs and grammatical errors (Yamada, 2009). Key studies from Doughty and Long
(2003), González-Lloret (2007) and Skehan (2003) elaborate on this potential for closer
connections between CALL and TBLT.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
346
While Chapelle (2003) called for greater consideration of research on CALL in
second language acquisition, more studies on TBLT need to be aware of this potential
in relation to the critiques often levelled at it. Van den Branden, Bygate and Norris’
(2009) otherwise milestone reader on key TBLT research over the last three decades,
signiﬁcantly does not include a chapter on research utilizing technology.This is a striking
omission given that leading CALL scholars such as Levy and Stockwell (2006) argue
that research on language learning tasks has been a ‘pivotal component in [CALL]
design’ (p. 14) since the mid-1980s.
Developments over the last ﬁve years in Web 2.0 applications suggest a renewed
interest in a task-based approach utilizing technology (Mak & Coniam, 2008;
Thomas & Reinders, 2010). According to O’Reilly (2005), Web 2.0 is related to a new
attitude towards the use of internet technology, emphasizing the development of a
truly networked environment in which new applications are automatically updated
online and users actively contribute to content in what he calls an ‘architecture of
participation’. Whereas the ﬁrst generation of the Web was popularly conceived of as
a one-dimensional ‘read only’ experience, the applications associated with Web 2.0
enable users to interact with the ‘read-write’Web in which they can actively contribute
and interact (Warschauer & Grimes, 2007). Web 2.0 consists of a series of new
technologies with a powerful social outlook with one of the aims being to promote
community building in authentic online environments (Mak & Coniam, 2008).
Virtual worlds and language learning
Among these emerging Web 2.0 technologies are three-dimensional (3D) virtual
worlds (VWs). Whereas early versions of virtual worlds such as Multiple User
Domains Object Oriented (MOOs) were dependent on interaction via text chat, the
latest generation uses a 3D landscape complete with buildings and land for new
development. A number of virtual worlds such as Active Worlds and World of Warcraft
have become popular, while Second Life has been used most often by presence
based and distance learning educators, particularly in language education (Wankel &
Kingsley, 2009; see also Sadler & Dooly, this volume).
For researchers who examine language learning in virtual worlds, a number
of areas of interest emerge. These include research on improvements in learner
attentiveness to pedagogical activities as well as general classroom behaviour
and participation (Molka-Danielsen & Deutschmann, 2009). Learners engage in
text and audio-based interaction, design and personalize 3D representations of
themselves in the form of avatars and engage in the construction of objects.
Research by Jarmon (2010) conﬁrms that students’ satisfaction with learning in
VWs like Second Life was high when using authentic tasks, and that learners
reported on signiﬁcant opportunities for enhanced levels of engagement in online
environments. Typically VWs have been identiﬁed as learning environments
which promote opportunities for constructivist-led pedagogies in which learners
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 347
can engage in text and voice chat activities connected with problem-solving,
collaborative learning, knowledge-building and role-playing activities. Building on
MOOs and their emphasis on encouraging a ﬁrst person level of engagement,
VWs continue this by developing a richer experience for participants. Typically
constructivist approaches which underline the importance of collaborative or social
engagement as the basis for learning, have been closely identiﬁed with the use
of Web 2.0 applications in education. Svensson (2003), for example, found that
learners in a virtual world were more focused on their learning and were less likely
to be distracted by interaction unrelated to the main tasks.
Building on research into the use of text-based MOOs, research on VWs has
indicated their positive potential in relation to reducing resistance to learning from
students and aiding a less inhibited space where role-playing activities can be
encouraged (Jarmon, 2010). Other features which are conducive to research on CMC
include the ability to track learner input via chat logs and video screen recording.
These can also provide useful documents for learners to reﬂect on their language
use. Typically researchers have employed ethnographic approaches utilizing video
recording and chat logs in order to understand learners’ in-world behaviour and
perception of virtual worlds and a range of disciplines, age-ranges and types of
virtual world have thus far been examined (Molka-Danielsen & Deutschmann,
2009).
Case study on Web 2.0 digital media and TBL
The context for this research was an intensive English language communication
course spread over one calendar week with 25 third- and fourth-year undergraduates
at a university in Japan. From this group of lower intermediate learners, one pair
of students aged 21, 1 male (henceforth Yoshiaki) and 1 female (henceforth Eri),
were selected at random for the case-study research. In this case I had previously
taught and observed the pair working both individually and with other partners in a
non-technology-mediated context during a year-long English language module.Yoshiaki
had signiﬁcantly less oral ﬂuency in English than Eri, who had studied abroad for one
semester on a language exchange programme in the United Kingdom. Yoshiaki also
scored over 150 points lower on the TOEIC proﬁciency test. A survey at the beginning
of the class identiﬁed that none of the students from the cohort had previously used
Second Life, were familiar with the Web 2.0 applications used to scaffold their learning
(e.g., the collaborative mind-mapping application Bubbl.us) or were conscious of having
used a TBLT approach. All of the learners were used to English courses in school and
university which were driven by commercial language textbooks and a grammar-based
syllabus.
The intensive course had a speciﬁc focus on communication and technology and
expected learners to engage in daily use of CMC to develop their English ability and to
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
348
explore resources for English language learning. Materials, language learning resources
and lesson plans were accessible from the university’s Blackboard CMS. The syllabus
of the intensive course examined a number of different learning outcomes which are
associated with the use of different tasks and the necessary computer applications
to achieve them. A variety of Web 2.0 applications were introduced to learners in the
course to: (a) scaffold the learning process (e.g., Bubbl.us, a collaborative mind-mapping
tool), (b) develop learners’ research-based skills (e.g., SurveyMonkey.com, an online
survey tool), (c) aid learner creativity (e.g., GarageBand, an application for making
podcasts and iMovie for recording and editing videos) and (d) provide an immersive
and virtual learning environment for task-based learning to occur (e.g., the virtual world
of Second Life).
Consequently, the intensive course was founded on TBL principles in which
learners were encouraged to develop higher-order critical thinking and project skills
and a holistic approach was adopted (Lai & Li, 2011). Learners were expected to work
effectively in collaborative pairs using synchronous and asynchronous applications
to achieve clearly identiﬁed non-linguistic and linguistic goals (see Table 18.1). The
deﬁned task cycle incorporated tasks in which learners had to work together in the
role of professional researchers to design and create an interview that would be
effective in eliciting data from residents about their in-world relationships. Students
were responsible for planning, developing and carrying out the interview with native
and non-native speakers of English in Second Life via live voice and/or text chat. The
results of the survey were to be reported during a ﬁnal video presentation task which
learners had to produce using the iMovie application.
Adopting a task cycle, two projects were used during the intensive course:
Project A (lessons 1–4) and Project B (lessons 5–12) (see Table 18.1). In Project A
learners were tasked with producing a 10-minute podcast presentation to be shown
to other members of the group in which they were asked to consider the history
and development of Second Life. In Project B, learners were asked to develop their
understanding of Second Life by developing a research-based survey of respondents,
to be conducted in real-time with Second Life residents.
Table 18.2 shows the list of tasks associated with Project B – the focus of the case
study in this chapter – in more detail and how it follows a pre-task, during-task and
post-task cycle (Willis, 1996).
Data for Project B were collected via researcher observations, ﬁeld notes, informal
interviews and video recordings of the two students working in a pair at their computer
screens, as well as the use of a video capture application (Jing.com) to capture
some screen activity. The focus of the case study reported here engaged with two
main research questions: (1) How do collaborative Web 2.0 tools and environments
contribute to language learning during task performance, in terms of improved L2
identity, and (2) What challenges are faced by learners in implementing TBLT with
collaborative Web 2.0 tools?
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 349
Findings from the project
L2 identity, Web 2.0 tools and a collaborative
task-based approach
The early modelling tasks in the cycle (Task 2) immediately sought to engage learners
by requiring them to explore examples of previously completed student projects. This
was considered a key phase in establishing the manageability of the task.The examples
aided Eri and Yoshiaki by demonstrating how previous groups had achieved task
TABLE 18.1 An overview of Project A & B tasks.
Lesson Room Title/Genre Computer
applications
used
Application
function
1 Computer
Lab 5
Welcome to the
course Course
outline
2 ~ 5 Computer
Lab 5
Project A
Research-based
audio podcast
presentation on
the topic: What is
Second Life?
- Bubbl.us
- PowerPoint /
Keynote (iLife)
- SurveyMonkey
- Garageband
- Web search
engines
- Second Life
- Mind mapping
- Presentation
- Survey research
and analysis
- Audio
presentation
creation
- Web research
- Synchronous
target language
environment
6 ~ 12 Computer
Lab 4
Project B
Research-based
vodcast (video
podcast) based
on a survey
conducted
with Second
Life residents:
What are the
characteristics of
residents who use
Second Life? In
what ways do they
use it?
- Bubbl.us
-PowerPoint /
Keynote (iLife)
- SurveyMonkey
- iMovie
- Web search
engines
- Second Life
- Mind mapping
- Presentation
- Survey research
and analysis
- Video
presentation
creation
- Web research
- Synchronous
target language
environment
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
350
TABLE 18.2 Project B: List of tasks
Task
no.
Task cycle Computer applications Explanation of the task/
learner involvement
1. Assigning pairs Recorded with Word
documents accessible
in Blackboard
- Students assigned to
random pairs
2. Teacher/student
modelling
(pre-task)
All applications - Familiarize themselves
with authentic examples of
previous student projects
- Learn to use the Web 2.0
applications in pairs
3. Planning the project
(during task phase
covers tasks 3–11)
Bubbl.us/Keynote - Pair collaboration via mind
mapping and collaborate
multimedia presentations
4. Designing and
conducting the
research project
SurveyMonkey
Second Life
- Pair collaboration to design
and edit an interview
- Pair collaboration on Second
Life and designation or roles
5. Writing a
presentation
script
Bubbl.us/Word - Pair collaboration on creating
a detailed mind map of the
presentation script. Focus
on language work
6. Creating the visual
message
Internet research/Keynote - Collaborative Web-based
research to enhance their
digital media presentations
- Wide range of digital literacy
skills (e.g., save, editing and
resizing images)
7
. Recording the
audio/video
Garageband/iMovie - Collaborative editing of
audio ﬁles supported by
digital picture editing
8. Integrating the
audio and visual
message
Garageband/iMovie - Collaborative editing of
audio ﬁles supported by
digital picture editing
9. Publishing the
podcast/vodcast
Garageband/iTunes - Collaborative editing in
relation to the publication
process
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 351
completion, thus stimulating the pair’s interest and curiosity. Moreover, the examples
scaffolded the learners’ initial efforts, and provided a concrete reference point to which
they could return for support. By providing the learners with a model that enabled
them to value and explore their own experience rather than requiring them to master a
disproportionate amount of new content, the learners increased their conﬁdence and
could function at key stages in the project independently and through self-regulation
(Reinders & White, 2010). Through digital media – in this case recorded videos of ﬁnal
presentations – peer support could be provided even though they were absent in
physical terms (Jarmon, 2010). In general, it was noticeable that social presence-based
peer scaffolding also took place from the more knowledgeable student during task
performance (Rankin, 2008), so that the learners’ differing skill sets allowed them to
deal with questions internally or provided support if more difﬁcult questions arose.
Both students demonstrated peer support skills and both Eri andYoshiaki occupied the
role of knowledgeable other at different stages in the task cycle.
The planning stage of the cycle (Task 3) utilized Bubbl.us, a highly intuitive Web-based
mind-mapping tool in which learners could work on two computers but collaborate on a
mind map simultaneously by delegating areas of responsibility. Students beneﬁted from
each using 21-inch iMac computers which could be positioned side by side one another
thereby enabling Eri andYoshiaki to see what the other was doing during task performance.
Eri was a stronger student in both oral and written English skills in non-CMC classes, but
was nevertheless typically quieter in group and pair contexts. Through dialogues, facial
expressions and body language they both demonstrated that they were working as a
team to complete the tasks.Video data captured Eri working effectively on-task in relation
to the project timeline and engaging in dialogue when clariﬁcation issues arose.
Yoshiaki, while more conﬁdent and gregarious in spoken Japanese, was less
motivated in learning environments in which English oral skills were required and body
language and posture would normally ﬁnd him slumped in his chair. Once beside the
computer, however, video data showed him sitting upright with two hands moving
swiftly over the keyboard and he frequently engaged Eri in short question and answer
Task
no.
Task cycle Computer applications Explanation of the task/
learner involvement
10. Peer evaluation of
podcasts/vodcasts
SurveyMonkey - Pair-based presentations
of the ﬁnal recorded
presentation to all groups
11. Instructor feedback
on language
functions and
focus on form
(post-task)
PowerPoint/Keynote - Reﬂect on the language
and genre issues raised the
presentation structure (e.g.,
use of present perfect and
past simple)
- Highlight errors by viewing
the recorded videos again
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
352
dialogues while gesturing at images or text on either or both computer screens. A higher
degree of learner equalization seemed apparent as a consequence, with both students
more willing to complement the skill sets of the other. Interview responses conﬁrmed,
as Yoshiaki said, that he ‘felt more interested in the lesson using technology’.
Yoshiaki therefore demonstrated that he could deal positively with the higher levels
of control over his tasks that he had been given, thus supporting the idea that Web 2.0
tools can promote learner agency (Kenning, 2010). While both learners demonstrated
signs of agency and conﬁdence in their L2 identity, nevertheless both overwhelmingly
chose to communicate in the virtual world parts of the task, namely, interviewing
Second Life residents using text chat with a more limited voice chat engagement.
Interviews and discussions with students indicated that this was because they felt
more comfortable communicating via text chat with foreigners, especially using the
‘cover’ of anonymity provided by the in-world use of their avatars. Both learners had
sufﬁcient keyboard skills to enable them to type effectively and quickly and this may
have also contributed to their preferred method of communication.
Observation of text chat and saved logs showed that Eri concentrated closely on
using correct grammatical forms, whereas Yoshiaki was able to adopt a freer style
and used abbreviations in the text (e.g., ‘u’ for ‘you’). More time may have been
needed as well as different physical locations for learners to become more conﬁdent
in engaging more in voice chat with residents, and this is something that ought to
be explored in future iterations of the project. This would seem to suggest that the
multimodal environment beneﬁted Yoshiaki to the extent that his L2 identity enabled
parts of his L1 identity to manifest itself more overtly than it would have done in
traditional L2 classrooms where he often reverted to a more passive subject position
(Thorne, 2003).
One further aspect of their L2 identities relates to the types of skills both learners
encountered in the technology-mediated environment. In addition to the linguistic
skills, learners also indicated a positive understanding of the digital literacy, technology
and cross-cultural communication skills they encountered, suggesting that they were
useful for future employability (Lankshear & Knobel, 2011). While Eri had previously
studied abroad for a short period, she saw the potential of being able to communicate
with native and non-native speakers and how this could be used in ESL contexts in
particular (Lamy, 2004). Yoshiaki, on the other hand, demonstrated an awareness of
the beneﬁts of engaging in sophisticated technology skills such as creating and editing
sound and video ﬁles, and video recordings of the lessons showed him concentrating
hard while highly engaged in this task (Task 6). As the ﬁnal video task required only a
recorded video rather than a live presentation in English in front of his peers, Yoshiaki
was also able to maintain his interest and conﬁdence in the project for a longer duration
and this contributed to lowering in-class anxiety levels (Lamy, 2004).
The language learning tasks were set up to be learner-centred activities that
attempted to develop student interaction and communication in the target language.
Typically this is not the case in language learning classes with Japanese students
of English at university level, and students expect to be led by teacher-focused
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 353
activities in which knowledge is transmitted to them in a lecture style (Vallance,
2009). Inhibitions felt by students in typical language classrooms in Japan were
discarded during the dyad’s immersion in Second Life as the project wore on and it
is possible to speculate that continuing the intensive course into a second semester
would have continued this positive effect, especially once the initial ‘wow’ factor of
the technology had worn off.
The 3D environment provided authentic activities and the learners experienced
immersion in a range of virtual cities, locations and buildings by mastering teleporting.
Both Eri andYoshiaki took a keen interest in the design of their 3D avatars and repeatedly
returned to reﬁne their in-world images, activities that suggested a high degree of
involvement with their characters and a high degree of embodiment (Jarmon, 2010).
Rather than acting as mere observers of language learning activity, their heightened
sense of virtual embodiment gave them opportunities to continuously participate in
independent ways, adopting a ﬁrst person level of engagement, rather than in the few
opportunities afforded by typical classroom environments in Japan.
Nevertheless, Eri was more sceptical about the use of Second Life, and frequently
referred to it as ‘like a video game’ in interview responses. Having previously worked
together on the other collaborative tasks, the students had established leadership
roles, with Yoshiaki taking an active lead on technology-related tasks such as typing at
the keyboard while Eri undertook the language-based tasks, eagerly deferring to him
where choices existed concerned with delegating responsibility and planning. Although
Eri’s English oral skills were signiﬁcantly more developed, observation indicated that
she chose not to correct her partner’s grammatical mistakes indirectly if at all, though
it was apparent she was aware of them.
Working independently with her avatar in Second Life, Eri quickly became adept at
navigating the various menus and designing her appearance and changing clothing.
Her virtual appearance established her creativity and in this respect she was able to
act as a knowledgeable other for Yoshiaki, guiding him to locations she had visited to
buy free clothing.
Both learners were also observed acting as mentors for other group members, both
in smaller teams as well as in the wider class. Feedback from interviews suggested
that the VW enhanced student motivation and provided them with potentially more
resources online to aid them with their English language tasks. For example, access
to online translation and dictionary tools was widely available and used. Learners’
development as coaches, however, was restricted by their reluctance to use English
and typically coaching took place in Japanese. While the adoption of multiple roles did
a great deal to encourage greater interactivity, collaboration and motivation between
learners, the dominance of Japanese, unless otherwise commented upon by me in my
role as an instructor, tended to neutralize the acquired advantages.
Furthermore, my role as a teacher shifted between a number of different positions,
enabling the learners to also do the same. Instructions to learners were directed to
the whole group, smaller groups and individuals. In turn learners were able to become
expert modellers of instructions and aid other learners in the process of using the
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
354
technology (Warschauer & Grimes, 2007). Both Eri and Yoshiaki adopted a range of
roles and taught other students as they solved various problems, both language and
technology related. Through observation and interview answers, it was apparent that
the pair’s adoption of pseudonyms in Second Life created the cover of a new L2 identity,
that this was strengthened in relation to the competence levels they experienced in
mastering various digital media applications, and this resulted in a positive learner
experience.
Learner challenges in using technology with tasks
Previous research on task-based approaches utilizing technologies has identiﬁed a
number of potential challenges which may inhibit task performance and completion.
Theseincludealackoftechnologyskillsorcross-culturalunderstandingandexpectations
(Hampel, 2005). Learners may also not be prepared for the types of learner collaboration
required or the emphasis on using the target language (Lai & Li, 2011).
Although neither Eri nor Yoshiaki had used Web 2.0 tools before or visited a virtual
world, they encountered few problems in learning to use the technology, given that the
applications invited experiment and a trial and error approach. In personal comments
during the lesson, Eri indicated that she did not feel comfortable with computers but this
was not clear from her actual performance, which demonstrated her ability to quickly
and intuitively grasp the applications she had to use. She was particularly skilled in her
use of creating visually attractive and highly structured mind maps, and this allowed
her creativity to show itself in ways which would normally not have been possible in
non-technology-mediated classes. This ﬁnding does suggest that both learners were
adept at using Web-based environments with little training, a conclusion supported by
a results from a survey of all learners’ experience with digital technologies conducted
prior to the start of Project A.
Though previous research has highlighted the challenges posed by learners who
lack digital literacy skills (Reinders & White, 2010), this was not the case for either of
the two students. Using the examples of previous project work once again enabled
them to imagine their own solution as well as possible routes to take in order to
achieve their goals. Both learners revealed a lack of sophisticated Web search skills,
typically typing in single words rather than engaging in multi-concept searching. But
while the concept of a digital generation remains problematical (Prensky, 2001), both
learners showed they had key skills, though Eri lacked conﬁdence in speaking about it,
a fact that may suggest more about the nature of gender relations between male and
female learners in Japan (Vallance, 2009).
Spread over one week the intensive course mirrored the time typically allocated to
learners during one semester. Both Eri and Yoshiaki beneﬁted from the more focused
and sustained opportunities offered by the intensive course which allowed them to
learn in an uninterrupted fashion, unlike typical semester courses which consist of
one 90-minute lesson every week. One of the main challenges in developing TBLT
and technology modules is the reform of the curriculum needed to produce optimal
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 355
environments, especially when instructors are working in foreign universities where
they may have less inﬂuence on curriculum development change processes. Instructors
may have the opportunity to design their own stand-alone modules, as was the case in
this instance, but the inﬂuence and status required to produce long-lasting curriculum
change over a whole curriculum remains a signiﬁcant challenge and should not be
underestimated.
Conclusions
The 3D virtual world of Second Life and the collaborative Web 2.0 digital media tools
used in the intensive course provided a rich CMC environment in which authentic
language learning within a task-based framework could be explored.While a number of
educators have developed language learning environments utilizing new digital media
tools, it is necessary to acknowledge the extent to which such virtual environments are
different from face-to-face classrooms in order to develop materials and teaching and
learning strategies that can fully take advantage of the opportunities for creativity and
identity development which they present. In this chapter non-native-speaking students
from Japan have shown that a task-based approach can be used to aid collaborative
problem solving. Drawing on students’ previous language classroom experience with
role playing, Second Life provided the students with opportunities to utilize technology
to explore language learning with a greater emphasis on authenticity and creativity –
both aspects that essentialist and stereotypical descriptions of Japanese learners
often fail to acknowledge. Findings suggested that learners felt more creative and
engaged and more willing to utilize an approach in which they valued their experience
and know-how to develop trial and error approaches. Through the use of the Web 2.0
tools, the virtual community of Second Life and the metaphor of learner as researcher,
the learners developed their L2 identities in ways that could feedback positively into
their academic learning contexts (Gasser, Cortesi, Malik & Lee, 2012).
While the pair overcame signiﬁcant barriers to participation, and were highly active
and motivated in their language learning tasks, signiﬁcant challenges were also
presented by the research. Most signiﬁcantly, both learners preferred text chatting
for longer periods in a combination of English and Japanese rather than engaging in
sustained spoken discourse in English with native and non-native speakers. Second,
students overwhelmingly relied on the use of their L1 (Japanese) for communicating
during the preparation and collaborative stages of the tasks. This calls into question
the gains made in motivation and engagement. In future developing strategies which
encourage students to engage with each other in the target language in all phases of
the task cycle need to be articulated to overcome this signiﬁcant obstacle to meaningful
collaboration in an online language learning context.
While further and more longitudinal research is required to fully examine the
different aspects of how collaborative Web 2.0 digital media can be used in language
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
356
learning contexts, this research suggests ways in which they can present language
learners with signiﬁcant opportunities to develop conﬁdence in the L2 and learn a
language by applying it in authentic situations. Findings from the study reinforce the
point that research on TBLT in technology-mediated contexts should take into account
the affordances of digital media and sociocultural approaches which stress that
language learners are also engaged in a range of other digital literacy skills (Lai & Li,
2011). Moreover, new research approaches need to be developed to understand and
analyse the focus on learner participation and collaboration in these new immersive
environments.
References
Abrams, Z. I. (2003). The effect of synchronous and asynchronous CMC on oral
performance in German. Modern Language Journal, 87, 157–67
.
Bruner, J. S. (1960). The process of education. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Bygate, M., Skehan, P
., & Swain, M. (2001). Researching pedagogic tasks: Second
language learning, teaching and testing. Harlow: Longman.
Chapelle, C. (2001). Computer applications in second language acquisition: Foundations
for teaching, testing, and research. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
— (2003). English language learning and technology. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Chun, D. (1994). Using computer networking to facilitate the acquisition of interactive
competence. System, 22, 17–31.
Dewey, J. (1938). Experience and education. New York: Collier Books.
Doughty, C. J., & Long, M. H. (2003). Optimal psycholinguistic environments for distance
foreign language learning. Language Learning & Technology, 7(3), 50–80.
Ellis, R. (2003). Task-based language teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gasser, U., Cortesi, S., Malik, M., & Lee, A. (2012). Youth and digital media: From
credibility to information quality. Cambridge, MA: Berkman Center.
Gonzalez-Lloret, M. (2007). Implementing tasks through technology. In K. Van den
Branden, M. Verhelst & K. Van Gorp (Eds.), Task-based language education (pp.
265–84). Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Press.
Hampel, R. (2005). Rethinking task design for the digital age: A framework for language
teaching and learning in a synchronous online environment. ReCALL, 18(1), 105–21.
Hwang, P
. A. (2008). Linguistic characteristics in synchronous and asynchronous CMC.
English Language & Literature Teaching, 14, 47–66.
Jarmon, L. (2010). Homo virtualis: Virtual worlds, learning, and an ecology of embodied
interaction. IJVPLE, 1(1), 38–56.
Kenning, M. M. (2010). Differences that make the difference: A study of functionalities in
synchronous CMC. ReCALL, 22, 3–19.
Kern, R. (1995). Restructuring classroom interaction with networked computers: Effects
on quality and characteristics of language production. Modern Language Journal, 79,
457–76.
Klapper, J. (2003). Taking communication to task? A critical review of recent trends in
language teaching. Language Learning Journal, 27, 33–42.
TASK-BASED LANGUAGE TEACHING AND CALL 357
Lai, C., & Li, G. F
. (2011). Technology and task-based language teaching: A critical Review.
CALICO Journal, 28(2), 498–521.
Lamy, M. N. (2001). Interactive task design: Metachat and the whole language learner. In
P
. del Garcia Mayo (Ed.), Investigating tasks in formal language learning (pp. 242–64).
Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
— (2004). Oral conversations online: Redeﬁning oral competence in synchronous
environment. ReCALL, 16(2), 520–38.
Lankshear, C., & Knobel, M. (2011). New literacies: Everyday practices and social learning.
3rd edition. Maidenhead & New York: Open University Press.
Leaver, B. L., & Willis, J. (Eds.) (2004). Task-based instruction in foreign language
education: Practices and programs. Washington: Georgetown University Press.
Levy, M., & Stockwell, G. (2006). CALL dimensions: Options and issues in
computer-assisted language learning. Marwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Long, M. H. (1990). Second language classroom research and teacher education.
In C. Brumﬁt & R. Mitchell (Eds.), Research in the language classroom. ELT Documents
133, 161–70.
Mak, B., & Coniam, D. (2008). Using wikis to enhance and develop writing skills among
secondary school students in Hong Kong. System, 36, 437–55.
Meskill, C. (1999). Computers as tools for sociocollaborative language learning.
In K. Cameron (Ed.), CALL: Media, design and applications. The Netherlands: Swets &
Zeitlinger.
Molka-Danielsen, J., & Deutschmann, M. (2009). Examining the design of learning
activities in Second Life through the lens of activity theory. Nokobit Proceedings
(pp. 1–12). Trondheim: Tapir Akademisk Forlag.
Nunan, D. (2004). Task-based language teaching. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
O’Reilly, T. (2005). What is Web 2.0: Design patterns and business models for the next
generation of software. Retrieved from http://oreilly.com/pub/a/web2/archive/what-is-
web-20.html?page=1
Ortega, L. (1999). Planning and focus on form in L2 oral performance. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 21, 109–48.
— (2009). Tasks and technology in language learning: Elective afﬁnities and (dis)
encounters. Plenary delivered at the 3rd international task-based language teaching
conference. Lancaster, 13–16 September.
Pica, T., Kanagy, R., & Falodun, J. (1993). Choosing and using communication tasks for
second language instruction. In G. Crookes & S. Gass (Eds.), Tasks and language
learning: Integrating theory and practice (pp. 9–34). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Prabhu, N. S. (1987). Second language pedagogy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Prensky, M. (2001). Digital natives, digital immigrants. On the Horizon, 9(5), 1–6.
Price, P
. (2011). Paul Seedhouse: Learning a language is much more fun in the kitchen. The
Observer, Sunday, 4 December. Retrieved from www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2011/
dec/04/digital-language-kitchen-paul-seedhouse
Rankin, Y. A. (2008). Design and evaluation of massively multiplayer online role-playing
games that facilitate second language acquisition (Unpublished doctoral dissertation).
Evanston, IL: Northwestern University.
Reinders, H., & White, C. (2010). The theory and practice of technology in materials
development and task design. In N. Harwood (Ed.), English language teaching
materials: Theory and practice (pp. 58–80). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Salaberry, M. R. (2000). L2 morphosyntactic development in text-based
computer-mediated communication. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 13(1),
5–27
.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
358
Seedhouse P
., Ali, S., Jackson, D., Ploetz, T., & Olivier P
. (2011). Learning French in digital
kitchen. International conference of the European association on computer-assisted
language learning. Nottingham, UK.
Skehan, J. (2003). Task-based instruction. Language Teaching, 36, 1–14.
Skehan, P
., & Foster, P
. (1997). The inﬂuence of planning and post-task activities on
accuracy and complexity in task-based learning. Language Teaching Research 1/3.
Svensson, P
. (2003). Virtual worlds as arenas for language learning. In U. Felix (Ed.),
Language learning online: Towards best practice (pp. 123–43). Lisse: Swets &
Zeitlinger.
Thomas, M., & Reinders, H. (Eds.) (2010). Task-based language learning and teaching with
technology. London & New York: Continuum.
Thorne, S. L. (2003). Artifacts and cultures-of-use in inter-cultural communication.
Language Learning & Technology, 7(2), 38–67
.
Vallance, M. (2009). Beyond policy: Strategic actions to support ICT integration in
Japanese schools. Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 24(3), pp. 275–93.
Van den Branden, K., Bygate, M., & Norris, J. (Eds.) (2009). TBLT: A reader. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Vygotsky, L. (1978). Mind in society. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wankel, C., & Kingsley, J. (2009). Higher education in virtual worlds. Bingley: Emerald.
Warschauer, M., & Grimes, D. (2007). Audience, authorship, and artifact: The emergent
semiotics of Web 2.0. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 27, 1–23.
Willis, J. (1996). Framework for task-based teaching. Harlow: Longman.
Yamada, M. (2009). The role of social presence in learner-centred communicative language
learning using synchronous computer-mediated communication: An experimental
study. Computers and Education, 52, 820–33.
19
CALL and learner autonomy:
Aﬀordances and constraints
Hayo Reinders and Philip Hubbard
Summary
The last two decades have seen a growing interest in the role of the individual
in the learning process. We are starting to better understand the contributions
that learners make to their own learning and the ways in which as educators we
can build on this. This is a positive development as the majority of language learning
increasingly takes place outside the language classroom. A sizeable body of general
education research now exists that identiﬁes the importance of informal learning and
the ways in which this can be supported. More research is now appearing on self-
directed language learning, but a lot of work remains to be done to identify the best
ways to prepare learners for this. Technology has the potential to provide teachers
and learners with the necessary support in this process but also in itself poses a
number of challenges, especially as the successful use of technology often requires
precisely those self-directed learning skills it is intended to help develop as well as
presupposing an adequate level of technological proﬁciency. In this chapter we begin
by brieﬂy reviewing the role of learner autonomy in language learning and teaching
before outlining the potential affordances offered by technology in its development.
Next, we highlight ways in which technology poses constraints on this development
and suggest ways in which these can be overcome. We will show that the ﬁelds
of autonomy and CALL have a potentially symbiotic relationship that has important
practical beneﬁts for learning and teaching.
Introduction
Studies in individual differences, motivation and learners’ beliefs (among others) point
to the importance of increasing our understanding of the contributions learners make
to their own learning (Breen, 2001) and the ways in which teachers can prepare learners
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
360
for and support learners in making these contributions. Technology has often been
seen to play an important potential role in this, both for learners to gain more control
over the learning process, and for teachers to have more ways to connect with learners
both in and outside the classroom. However, in practice there has long been a lack of
terminological consistency and clarity and a frequent confusion between objectives
(e.g., the development of learner autonomy) and the tools used to achieve them (e.g.,
the internet).
A common misconception for many years has been the idea that technology would
single-handedly serve the pursuit of autonomy by providing learners with powerful
tools that would enable them to control their own learning without the help of a teacher
(cf. Levy, 1997). Partly this was the result of early optimism in the ﬁeld of CALL. The
promise of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) in general and intelligent tutoring systems (ITS) in
particular was such that overly conﬁdent predictions were common about the demise of
the language teacher and the empowerment of learners to the point where they would
be able to control every aspect of their learning. Although subsequent developments
lowered such expectations, a view persisted of technology as providing learners with
all the tools they would need to be successful in their learning. In this view, offering
learners access to unlimited resources and language input whenever and wherever
they want, would be sufﬁcient for learning to somehow take place automatically.
Reality has of course proven to be far more complicated. Although technology
undoubtedly does support learners in a myriad of ways, it is also true that without
adequate preparation, practice, feedback and support, many learners are unable to
make effective use of technology’s affordances, and indeed may suffer from using
technology inadequately (for example by overreliance on machine translation).
In this chapter we look at the relationship between the development of learner
autonomy and the use of technology through exploring this tension between technology
as an affordance and as a constraint.
The role of learner autonomy in
language learning and teaching
Language teachers have always tried to ﬁnd ways to reconcile the collective nature of
most teaching environments with the (inevitably) individual aspects of learning. The
development of learner autonomy, or learners’ ability to take control over their own
learning (Holec, 1981), has been one way in which teachers have tried to make links
with learners at a more individual level, and to connect classroom learning with out-of-
class language use. The theoretical and pedagogical rationale for the implementation
of more learner-centred approaches to teaching is well developed and goes back many
decades. Especially from the 1950s, educational psychology began to place greater
emphasis on the role of the individual in the learning process. Humanist approaches
considered the learner as an active participant in this process; as someone who actively
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 361
shapes his or her learning experiences with the purpose of self-development and
fulﬁlment (Atkinson, 1993; Stevick, 1980). Similarly, constructivism gave central stage
to the learner by focusing less on the knowledge to be transmitted, and more on the
process of constructing, reorganizing and sharing that knowledge.These developments
also inﬂuenced language education, both through the development of speciﬁc teaching
methods rooted in these ideas, such as the Silent Way and Suggestopedia (Gattegno,
1963; Lozanov, 1978) and – perhaps more importantly – through a general inﬂuence on
language teaching towards a greater focus on the learner:
most researchers agree that a major shift is taking place . . . in education away from
the teacher-centred classroom toward a learner-centred system where the learner
is in control of the lesson content and the learning process. (Fotos & Browne,
2004, p. 7)
In addition to the educational aspect of autonomy, there is also an important political
element. In its original meaning, autonomy encompasses the freedom and ability to
make one’s own choices (Winch, 2007). Economic and political obstacles, government
policies and tightly prescriptive curricula are some examples of practical impediments
to learners exercising their autonomy. Nevertheless, technology can offer ways to
overcome such impediments, as we shall see below.
Technology and learner autonomy
Technology can play a role in the development of learner autonomy by supporting
learners in a number of ways. Free and ubiquitous access to resources for example is
one way in which practical and political limitations on autonomy can be overcome. But
in order for learners to be able to make use of those resources, they also need to know
which resources are the most suitable for them and to have the ability to use them
appropriately.Technology can help learners develop this knowledge and the necessary
learning skills. This can be done indirectly, for example by giving students access to a
learning diary to record their learning experiences and the resources they use. It can
also be done by developing learner autonomy directly (although this is less common).
For example, there are computer programs designed speciﬁcally to help students
develop the ability to identify their learning needs, plan their learning and monitor
their progress. The ‘My English’ program developed at King Mongkut’s University of
Technology Thonburi (KMUTT) in Thailand, for example, actively encourages students
to reﬂect on their learning and to make decisions based on past performance and
future needs (see Reinders & Darasawang, 2011). Students are taken through a needs
analysis process, are encouraged to develop an appropriate study plan, are guided in
the selection of relevant resources and are requested to monitor and reﬂect on their
performance. Support is available through peers and online language advisors.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
362
Although such programs are valuable in encouraging students to become more
aware of their learning process and their own roles in this, studies into engagement
levels with such software show disappointing results. For example, Reinders (2006)
reports that many students had received the various prompts and alerts offered by
an online support program used at the University of Auckland, but did not have the
metacognitive awareness to respond appropriately and as a result often stopped using
the software. Reinders concludes that in this case learners should have received more
speciﬁc training, not only on how to use the software, but also on the skills necessary
for self-directed learning.
Related to this, not much is known about the ways in which learners use technology
outside the classroom (or indeed how they practise and acquire language in general).
A recent special issue of Language Learning & Technology (Reinders & White, 2011)
and an edited collection (Benson & Reinders, 2011) are two of only a few publications
to speciﬁcally look at the use of technology outside the classroom. Both of these
collections conﬁrm, among others, that many learners do have a desire to shape their
learning experiences, and to a certain extent do so, but that they are often not successful
in this. As a result, attrition levels are often high, in particular in self-study contexts
(Nielson, 2011). Almost all existing studies show the need for extensive preparation,
ongoing guidance and follow-up support to ensure learners are able to make full use
of resources given to them (Darasawang & Reinders, 2010; Reinders, 2006; Ulitisky,
2000; Vanijdee, 2003). Another common ﬁnding is that greater integration needs to
take place between formal and informal education, and the use of teacher- and self-
directed learning so that skills and experiences acquired in one domain can be built on
and used in the other (Toogood & Pemberton, 2002).
The aﬀordances of CALL for learner autonomy
CALL resources offer learners a range of affordances that are undeniable (Godwin-
Jones, 2005; Zhao, 2005). Reinders and White (2010) reviewed these affordances
and categorized them into two broad groups: those that carry mainly organizational
or practical advantages and those that are more pedagogical in nature, as shown in
Table 19.1.
Here, we are concerned with the ways in which these affordances are directly
relevant for the development of learner autonomy and will now discuss each with this
in mind.
Access
At a purely practical level, technology has allowed learners to gain a level of access to
resources that was previously impossible. Not only do learners in rural or underprivileged
contexts now have better opportunities for access to materials, but because of this
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 363
they are also less reliant on scarce or unavailable teacher support. Mobile-assisted
language learning in particular offers great promise in this regard (Kukulska-Hulme &
Traxler, 2005).
Storage and retrieval
An extension of ‘access’, technology allows for the easy storage and retrieval of
learning and teaching materials, as well as learning records, giving insight into learning
behaviour, both inside, and potentially, outside the classroom.This extends not only to
teachers but also to learners themselves, who can not only ﬁnd and access resources
but also monitor their own usage of those resources.
Sharing and recycling of materials
Pedagogical materials can be easily created, shared and updated, with learners
potentially contributing to this process. In relation to the development of learner
TABLE 19.1 The potential advantages of CALL
Organizational
advantages
Access
Storage and retrieval of learning behaviour records and outcomes
Sharing and recycling of materials
Cost efﬁciency
Pedagogical
advantages
Authenticity
Interaction
Situated learning
Multimedia
New types of activities
Non-linearity
Feedback
Monitoring and recording of learning behaviour and progress
Control
Empowerment
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
364
autonomy, this last point is particularly important as it gives learners control that they
lack in more traditional environments.
Cost eﬃciency
Technology is sometimes said to lower the cost of education by allowing learners to
manage more of their own learning, thus relying less on teachers. Technology can
reduce the cost of language materials in some cases by providing them in a readily
reproducible digital format.
Authenticity
In terms of pedagogical advantages, authenticity is often cited and potentially of major
importance in the development of learner autonomy (Benson, 2007), allowing learners
to use real-world materials that are relevant to their (and not just their teachers’)
individual interests. Discussions of autonomy often emphasize the importance of
giving learners access to authentic materials, and the internet provides a wealth of
these for commonly taught languages and increasingly for less commonly taught ones
as well.
Interaction
An important tenet of most SLA theories is the importance of opportunities for input and
output, provided through interaction. Autonomy researchers have long argued for the
importance of providing learners with opportunities to use the language, especially in
settings outside formal education (Benson, 2011). Computer-mediated communication
through email, chat and social networking sites allows learners to easily connect with
other learners, native speakers and teachers. Tutorial software that offers students
feedback on correctness (e.g., pronunciation grading through speech recognition) or
input modiﬁcation (Chapelle, 2001, 2005) (e.g., linked deﬁnitions, images, translations,
etc.) also provides a level of interactivity that can be beneﬁcial to the learner.
Situated learning
Related to this, situated learning is facilitated by the use of technology, for example
through the use of mobile phones that allow access to support tools in real-world
settings, and that allow learners to connect with peers or teachers when attempting
to use the language. Situated learning can help to blur the boundaries between the
classroom and the target language context (Hung, 2002). By setting assignments that
require learners to discover language on their own, they are encouraged to take more
responsibility for their learning, in socioculturally meaningful contexts.
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 365
Multimedia
Technology makes the production and distribution of multimedia resources easier, both
for teachers and, increasingly, also for students. Multimedia resources may also give
learners more control over the way they access target language input. For example,
a movie can be watched with or without subtitles. Individual learner preferences and
learning styles can thus be accommodated more easily.
New types of activities
Related to this, technology can also offer new types of activities that are difﬁcult or
impossible to replicate otherwise. Drag-and-drop exercises,Webquests, microblogging
and social networking sites offer opportunities for interactive language practice that
can empower students to ﬁnd authentic materials and interact with them without the
constant intervention of teachers.
Non-linearity
Technology allows for content to be displayed dynamically. Hypermedia gives students
the opportunity to move beyond the boundaries of the materials set by the teacher. It
also allows students to easily access background information or support tools.
Feedback
Technology makes the delivery of immediate and personalized feedback easier to
accomplish. Natural language processing and parser-based CALL can provide feedback
based on participants’ prior language learning progress and their speciﬁc needs (Heift
& Schulze, 2007), which can help to decrease reliance on the teacher. It also becomes
easier to provide feedback in a range of different ways, through auditory, textual and
visual means. At the same time, it becomes easier for students to connect with other
learners to obtain peer-feedback, encouraging them to consider alternatives for teacher
guidance.
Monitoring and recording of learning behaviour and progress
This is made easier with the help of technology.This not only supports teachers but also
learners, who, when given access to this information, can learn to make choices about
their learning process based on actual data on their progress. Electronic portfolios
are an example of a tool speciﬁcally designed to encourage reﬂection and to support
informed decision-making.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
366
Control
Several of the affordances discussed above give students a greater degree of control
over their learning. At a practical level, CALL materials can be accessed ﬂexibly by
students when and where they need to, and be provided with varying levels of support
(e.g., with or without a glossary).
Empowerment
At the pedagogical level, many of the above affordances empower learners to make
decisions for themselves. By allowing learners to make choices on what materials to
access, how to use them, by enabling them to work with other learners, both within
and outside the school, and by giving them the data they need to know how they
are doing, students are encouraged to become more reﬂective, more critical and
increasingly responsible for their own learning process (Blin, 1999).
The constraints of CALL for learner autonomy
As noted above, these affordances do not come as a free ride for autonomous learners –
if they did, then the mere presence of technology should have been enough to spur
a revolution in autonomous learning as it arguably has in listening to music. There
are constraints, even potentially negative side effects of technology, when applied
to this realm, a number of which we touch on in this section. Let us begin with the
assumptions that (1) learners are working with teachers, tutors or other resources
(e.g., computer programs) to help them become autonomous and (2) the learners
themselves are in fact interested and motivated to become autonomous, and then
discuss constraints from this idealized perspective. As with all language learning (and
all education for that matter) additional issues will surface in settings where one or
both of these assumptions are not met. We brieﬂy review the preceding affordances
with respect to constraints, limitations and challenges to their effective integration
into autonomous learning, beginning with the four organizational categories and then
continuing with the ten pedagogical ones.
Access
On the surface at least, access is a positive feature, but access has negative potential
as well. Mobile learning, for example, is gaining ground for its ‘anytime/anywhere’
access but the mobile experience can be a degraded one due to the limited screen
size (for phones, though not tablets) and the often distracting environments in which
they are used. For learners to be autonomous, they need to control access and not
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 367
have that access control them to keep from being constantly interrupted in tasks or
being swamped with data that cannot be processed in a way that supports language
learning. Rather than relying exclusively on whatever is familiar and convenient, they
need to develop knowledge and skills for selecting the best available technology for
particular learning objectives.
The question is basically to what extent the practical beneﬁts of technology access
extend to the pedagogical level. The simple availability of materials for self-study is
not sufﬁcient. Previous studies (e.g., Jones, 1993; Reinders & Lewis, 2006) report
that such materials frequently lack the necessary support structures, such as clear
instructions or even answer keys, and do not explicitly encourage students to reﬂect
on the learning process. Materials not designed for learning purposes will offer even
less guidance. Hurd emphasizes the importance of preparation for learners to take full
advantage for access:
if learners are not trained for autonomy, no amount of surrounding them with
resources will foster in them that capacity for active involvement and conscious
choice, although it might appear to do so. (Hurd, 1998, pp. 72–3)
Storage and retrieval
In terms of materials, the constraints lie in two areas: (1) initially indexing or tagging
content for easy and accurate retrieval and (2) developing the skills in both teachers
and learners to locate and sequence that material for learning. Indexing and tagging
for language learning functionality can be a time and resource-consuming enterprise –
ways need to be found to increase the pool of stored and indexed resources, ideally
in a universal format. For the second, at the broad internet level, this means having
advanced skills at searching with Google or other search engines, which many students
lack (Duke &Asher, 2012).At a more localized level, it can mean having those skills within
a dedicated content or learning management system, such as Blackboard, Moodle or
Drupal. Besides materials, learning records may also be stored and retrieved. To do so
requires ﬁrst ﬁnding settings in which such records can be gathered and then ensuring
that both teachers and learners have the ability to retrieve and interpret them. It is
relatively easy to collect data, but data is not the same as knowledge. Both teachers
and learners have to develop the skills to identify sources for such data and the means
of transforming that data into useful information to support decisions and actions.
Sharing and recycling of materials
Despite its advantages for teaching, the process of distributing and recycling material
sets up the potential for problems in creative language production for the learner. We
live increasingly in a ‘mix’ culture, where repurposing chunks originally produced by
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
368
others and synthesizing them into something different is taken as a legitimate form of
creation. Learners must become aware of the limitations of this practice for developing
and demonstrating language proﬁciency. Also teachers need to be aware of the
limitations in their own materials development.
Cost eﬃciency
When we think of technology and language learning these days, the internet and apps
for mobile devices come to mind. There is an expectation that everything should be
free, or in the case of apps, cost very little. As a result, free material is often preferred
by both teachers and learners to other, potentially better, material that carries expenses
with it. But there are hidden costs to much of such ‘free’ material, most notably the
distraction of advertising on websites, the lack of systematicity (Decoo, 2010), and
the limited quality control in much of its production. Additionally, for technology at
the institutional level, there are costs for hardware, infrastructure, maintenance and
training, costs that may be difﬁcult for the autonomous learner to absorb away from
the institutional setting.
Authenticity
There are at least two issues of authenticity that can have negative consequences
for the autonomous learner. One involves the language of social interaction found in
online chat and discussion boards. The anonymity and cultural practices of many such
settings support forms of discourse differing from what may be the learner’s or the
institution’s goals. The second involves the relative level of the material. The plethora
of options for commonly taught languages can readily lead learners to content that is
authentic but linguistically inaccessible. If material is too far beyond the learner’s level, it
is not processed naturally, and thus is not useful for learning (Breen, 1985). In addition,
accessing material that is incomprehensible can be demotivating.There is a temptation
to rely on translation, especially machine translation, for both comprehension and
production. Autonomous learners need to understand the limitations of such practices
and identify appropriate material for their level and goals.
Interaction
Interactions mediated by technology may suffer from being either inauthentic, leading
to a distorted view of target language use, or authentic, as noted above, but beyond the
level of all but the more advanced learners.There are examples of online interactions in
authentic settings that have led to apparent successes for autonomous learners, such
as Lam’s (2000) case study of an English learner expanding writing proﬁciency through
postings to fan sites. However, unfettered interaction may not support sufﬁcient focus
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 369
on form, and the lack of systemization (Decoo, 2010), is likely to affect efﬁciency of
learning as well as leave gaps in the acquired language system. There is a need to
ensure that autonomous learners understand the forms of interaction that will be most
useful for them. Many of the purported beneﬁts of CMC may be limited because a very
narrow range of language is used over and over. In synchronous chat in particular, there
is not much extension and not much opportunity to focus on accuracy or complexity.
Situated learning
Despite the generally positive aspects of situated learning, a key point is for
autonomous learners to be able to select the right range of situations for their learning
to occur, ideally situations that are readily transferable.The range of situations in online
and especially mobile settings can be limited relative to face-to-face language use,
an issue common in foreign language vs second language settings in general (see
Stockwell, this issue). Learners may become successful within a given comfortable
range, but lack experience with key lexical, grammatical and discourse elements as
well as cultural expectations outside of those settings. On the other hand, as everyday
communication and professional and business interactions increasingly move into the
digital realm, it is important that the learning tasks and settings reﬂect such authentic
environments. Autonomous learners need to have the knowledge and skills to seek
out such tasks and settings, rather than just pedagogically convenient ones, as often
occurs when activities connected to print textbook are transferred online.
Multimedia
Combining media can be useful, but multimedia by itself does not guarantee better
learning (Mayer, 2005). Multimedia may cause distractions, and the quality of online
material is inconsistent. Further, learners may not take appropriate advantage of
multimedia when offered. For example, a recent review of research on multimedia
glosses for vocabulary learning noted the following: ‘In summary, previous studies
have found that L2 vocabulary is remembered better when learners look up picture
or video glosses of unfamiliar words in addition to text glosses (translations in L1 or
deﬁnitions in L2) but that when given the choice, learners tend to prefer and use the
simple translations of words’ (Chun, 2011, p. 139). Such disconnects between what
has been shown to help learners and what they tend to do on their own need to be
resolved for effective autonomous learning.
New types of activities
Useful new activities, such as Webquests for language learning (Godwin-Jones, 2004),
are possible in computer settings. However, they may be technology-driven without a
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
370
suitable pedagogical foundation. Additionally, autonomous learners may be unaware
of the range of new activities and unable to discover them on their own. Needed
steps include expanding and reﬁning language learning tasks and activities mediated
by technology that suit autonomous learning and developing procedures for making
teachers and learners aware of their range and relative strengths.
Non-linearity
Along with the positive elements of non-linearity, there are also drawbacks. With
few exceptions, both text and audio/video is linear, and textual cohesion can be
interrupted by linking within a text to online dictionaries or glossaries to illuminate
meaning or to resources that enrich and expand the content. Non-linearity also
vastly increases the choices learners can make, and learners need to have the
ability to make informed decisions regarding when breaks in linearity lead to more
rather than less efﬁcient learning. One common aspect of non-linearity in digital
environments is multi-tasking, which, despite the impressions of those engaging
in it, is increasingly being shown to reduce rather than enhance efﬁciency and
quality of engagement (e.g., Ophir, Nass & Wagner, 2009). This is another example
of a disconnect between many learners’ perceptions and the results of empirical
studies.
Feedback
Technology offers the opportunity for feedback, but the overwhelming majority of
dedicated programs for language learning offer very limited programmed feedback
(Reinders & Lewis, 2006). Exceptions include certain ICALL (intelligent CALL) programs,
but as noted in the introduction, these have not met their original promise (see Schulze
& Heift, this volume). Feedback from humans is available, but a common approach for
autonomous learners is to use volunteer native speakers for this purpose, especially
through tandem language exchanges (e.g., livemocha; mylanguageexchange).
Feedback from programmed or untrained human sources may include information that
is incomprehensible, inaccurate or irrelevant. In autonomous settings, it is important
for learners to become adept at both soliciting and interpreting feedback so that it
serves their needs.
Monitoring and recording of learning behaviour and progress
Touched on under the ‘storage and retrieval’ topic above, this affordance is often not
available except in commercial learning packages. Even there, the data supplied may
be of limited value, often representing only progress through the material or course
based on quizzes, but not progress in language use or general proﬁciency. At the
individual level, this is further constrained by a lack of reliable student models: one size
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 371
ﬁts all often prevails. Electronic portfolios offer an option, but autonomous learners
are likely to require additional skills and knowledge to use them effectively. For this
affordance to be realized, we need extensive development of learning management
systems speciﬁc to second languages and more sophisticated ICALL applications,
as well as greater learner understanding of how the information from those sources
connects to future actions.
Control
Issues of control have been with us since the early days of CALL (Stevens, 1984).
Learners ﬁrst need an understanding of the control options they have for a given
device or application, and often they do not have this ability at the required level
(Winke & Goertler, 2008).There is arguably a need for ‘technological autonomy’ in both
the learners themselves and the teachers who are guiding them towards language
learning autonomy. Beyond this core understanding of controls, autonomous learners
need an understanding at a more strategic level of when to use speciﬁc control options
to serve their learning objectives.
Empowerment
Empowerment is closely connected to several of the previous categories, in particular
feedback and control. All too often, learners are ‘empowered’ without the preparation
to use that power effectively. There is also a clear connection to motivation so that
the desire to build on the empowerment affordance of technology is activated and
channelled. In a digital world, Dörnyei and Ushioda’s (2009) theory of the ‘L2 self’
may hold promise for understanding and developing motivation for the connected
autonomous language learner.
Overcoming constraints and challenges for
developing learner autonomy
Autonomy is a growth area within language teaching and learning, and we have seen
in the ﬁrst part of this chapter how technology offers an unparalleled set of affordances
to support it by connecting learners to one another, teachers and others as well as
to programmed tutorials and rich content. However, we have also seen that there is
a great potential to ignore or misappropriate these affordances. The affordances that
modern technological devices, applications and networks create are only opportunities.
For autonomous learners and their teachers, at least four promising paths exist for
overcoming the constraints and challenges so that those opportunities can be exploited
effectively.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
372
First, there is the potential for learner training (Hubbard, 2004). We have argued that
what learners do ‘naturally’ with the affordances of technology is often at odds with
what is ideal for autonomous language learning.Teachers and developers need to begin
by identifying efﬁcient and effective techniques and procedures for using language
materials or engaging in language learning tasks and activities mediated by technology.
Thentheyneedtoﬁndwaystocommunicatethosetolearnersthroughtrainingactivities.
Romeo and Hubbard (2010) suggest that learner training for technology environments
should include three types: technical, strategic and pedagogical. Pedagogical training,
which provides a knowledge base for accommodating new technologies and situations
overlapping that of teachers themselves, is of particular importance in the development
of autonomy. We are still in the early stages of clarifying the scope of learner needs
in using technology, but despite the challenges inherent in language learner training
(Rees-Miller, 1993), we cannot continue to ignore it.
Second, once we move away from ﬁxed curricula, a potential area of inefﬁciency and
frustration for autonomous learners is that of materials and task selection, especially
selection of material that is too challenging to be of much use in promoting language
acquisition (see, for example Nation and Waring’s (1997) discussion of vocabulary
level needed for text comprehension). There is a need for more information to be
provided to autonomous learners in a form accessible to them so that they can make
appropriate choices. Hubbard (2011) has suggested expanding the notions of Decoo
(2010) regarding systemization so that the content of freely available text, audio and
video resources are annotated and tagged in a way that autonomous learners can
access material linked to their proﬁciency level and interest. In parallel to this is the
propagation of more online tools likeTom Cobb’s vocabulary proﬁler (www.lextutor.ca/
vp) or various readability applications (e.g., www.read-able.com) that learners can use
on their own to approximate levels for materials.
Third, at a time when collaborative learning and online social interaction are both
on the upswing, there is the potential for learners to support and scaffold one another
through communities of practice (Lave & Wenger, 1991). The value of peer interaction
in independent learner settings has been noted previously (e.g., Lee 1998), but little
work to date has focused on the speciﬁcs of the use of technology to support that.
This is indeed another of technology’s affordances – community building. Despite the
obvious momentum from current social networking sites and ‘cultures-of-use’ (Thorne,
2003), making such collaborations work well for autonomous language learning will
likely require the combined efforts of teachers and students, at least at the initial
stages.
Finally, there is a need for more technological initiatives within CALL, or borrowed
from related disciplines, that speciﬁcally target advancing learner autonomy. This
includes applications that enhance learners’ metacognitive development and provide
support for cognitive, social and affective strategies (Oxford, 1990) speciﬁc to the
technology environments. Like their teachers, learners need to be guided to a level of
technological autonomy whereby they can embrace and incorporate new devices and
applications in the service of language learning. This call is embedded in the TESOL
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 373
Technology Standards, Learner Standards Goal 3, Standard 5: ‘Language learners
recognize the value of technology to support autonomy, lifelong learning, creativity,
metacognition, collaboration, personal pursuits, and productivity’ (Healey et al., 2011,
p. 252).
These four areas, combined with the prior discussion of affordances and constraints
for technology in support of language learner autonomy, provide an exploratory
framework for research and practice in this growing domain. It is clear that technology
can play an important role in the development of learner autonomy, but it is up to
the language teaching profession to help learners to be able to fully beneﬁt from the
affordances it offers.
References
Benson, P
. (2007). Autonomy in language teaching and learning: State of the art article.
Language Teaching, 40(1), 21–40.
— (2011). Language learning and teaching beyond the classroom: An introduction to the
ﬁeld. In P
. Benson & H. Reinders (Eds.), Beyond the language classroom (pp. 7–16).
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Blin, F
. (1999). CALL and the development of learner autonomy. In R. Debski & M. Levy
(Eds.), WorldCALL: Global perspectives on computer-assisted language learning
(pp. 133–47). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Breen, M. (1985). Authenticity in the language classroom. Applied Linguistics, 6, 60–70.
— (2001). Learner contributions to language learning. New directions in research. Harlow:
Longman.
Chapelle, C. A. (2001). Computer applications for second language acquisition:
Foundations for teaching, testing, and research. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
— (2005). Interactionist SLA theory in CALL research. In J. Egbert & G. Petrie (Eds.),
Research perspectives on CALL (pp. 45–68). Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Chun, D. (2011). CALL technologies for L2 reading post Web 2.0. In N. Arnold & L. Ducate
(Eds.), Present and future promises of CALL: From theory and research to new
directions in language teaching (pp. 131–69). San Marcos, TX: CALICO.
Darasawang, P
., & Reinders, H. (2010). Encouraging autonomy with an online language
support system. CALL
-EJ, 11(2). Retrieved from http://callej.org/journal/11–2/
darasawang_reinders.html
Decoo, W. (2010). Systemization in foreign language teaching. London: Routledge.
Dörnyei, Z., & Ushioda, E. (2009). Motivation, language identities and the L2 self: A
theoretical overview. In Z. Dörnyei & E. Ushioda (Eds.), Motivation, language identity
and the L2 self (pp. 1–8). Bristol, UK: Multilingual Matters.
Duke, L., & Asher, D. (2012). College libraries and student culture: What we now know.
New York: ALA Editions.
Fiori, M. (2005). The development of grammatical competence through synchronous
computer-mediated communication. CALICO Journal, 22(3), 567–602.
Fotos, S. S., & Browne, C. (2004). New perspectives on CALL for second language
classroom. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
CONTEMPORARY COMPUTER-ASSISTED LANGUAGE LEARNING
374
Gattegno, C. (1963). Teaching for languages in schools: The silent way. Reading:
Educational Explorers.
Godwin-Jones, B. (2005). Emerging technologies. Messaging, gaming, peer-to-peer
sharing: Language learning strategies and tools for the millennial generation. Language
Learning & Technology, 9(1), 17–22.
Godwin-Jones, R. (2004). Language in action: From Webquests to virtual realities
(Emerging Technologies Column). Language Learning & Technology, 8(3), 9–14.
Healey, D., Hanson-Smith, E., Hubbard, P
., Ioannou-Georgiou, S., Kessler, G., &Ware,
P
. (2011). TESOL technology standards: Description, implementation, integration.
Alexandria, VA: TESOL.
Heift, T., & Schulze, M. (2007). Errors and intelligence in computer-assisted language
learning: Parsers and pedagogues. New York: Routledge.
Holec, H. (1981). Autonomy and foreign language learning. Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Hubbard, P
. (2004). Learner training for effective use of CALL. In S. Fotos & C. Browne
(Eds.), New perspectives on CALL for second language classrooms (pp. 45–68).
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
— (2011). Some practical issues in systemization and autonomy. In M. Simons & J.
Colpaert (Eds.), Peer perspectives on systemization. A book review of Wilfried Decoo’s
systemization in foreign language teaching. Antwerp: Universiteit Antwerpen.
Hung, D. (2002). Situated cognition and problem-based learning: Implications for learning
and instruction with technology. Journal of Interactive Learning Research, 13(4),
393–415.
Kukulska-Hulme, A., & Traxler, J. (2005). Mobile learning: A handbook for educators and
trainers. London: Routledge.
Lam, W. (2000). L2 literacy and the design of the self: A case study of a teenager writing
on the internet. TESOL Quarterly, 34(3), 457–82.
Lave, J., & Wenger, E. (1991). Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral participation.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lee, I. (1998). Supporting greater autonomy in language learning, ELT Journal, 52(4), 282–9.
Levy, M. (1997). Computer-assisted language learning: Context and conceptualization.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Lozanov, G. (1978). Suggestology and outlines of Suggestopedy. New York: Gordon &
Breach.
Mayer, R. (2005). The cognitive theory of multimedia learning. In R. Mayer (Ed.), The
Cambridge handbook of multimedia learning (pp. 31–48). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Nation, P
., & Waring, P
. (1997). Vocabulary size, text coverage and word lists. In N. Schmitt
& M. McCarthy (Eds.), Vocabulary: Description, acquisition and pedagogy (pp. 6–19).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Nielson, K. (2011). Self-study with language learning software in the Workplace: What
happens? Language Learning & Technology, 15(3), 110–29.
Ophir, E., Nass, C., & Wagner, A. (2009). Cognitive control in media multitaskers.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106 (37), 15583–7
.
Oxford, R. (1990). Language learning strategies: What every teacher should know.
New York: Newbury House.
Rees-Miller, J. (1993). A critical appraisal of learner training: Theoretical bases and teaching
implications. TESOL Quarterly, 27(4), 679–89.
Reinders, H. (2006). Supporting self-directed learning through an electronic learning
environment. In T. Lamb & H. Reinders (Eds.), Supporting independent learning: Issues
and interventions (pp. 219–38). Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
CALL AND LEARNER AUTONOMY 375
— (2007). Big brother is helping you. Supporting self-access language learning with a
student monitoring system. System, 35, 93–111.
Reinders, H., & Darasawang, P
. (2012). Diversity in language support. In G. Stockwell (Ed.),
Computer-assisted language learning: Diversity in research and practice (pp. 49–70).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Reinders, H., & White, C. (2011). Learner autonomy and new learning environments.
Language Learning & Technology, 15(3), 1–3.
Romeo, K., & Hubbard, P
. (2010). Pervasive CALL learner training for improving listening
proﬁciency. In M. Levy, F
. Blin, C. Siskin & O. Takeuchi (Eds.), WorldCALL: International
perspectives on computer-assisted language learning (pp. 215–29). New York:
Routledge.
Stevens, V. (1984). Implications of research and theory concerning the inﬂuence of choice
and control on the effectiveness of CALL. CALICO Journal, 2(1), 28–33.
Stevick, E. (1980). Teaching languages: A way and ways. Rowley: Newbury House
Publishers.
Thorne, S. (2003). Artifacts and cultures-of-use in intercultural communication. Language
Learning & Technology, 7(2), 38–67
.
Toogood, S., & Pemberton, R. (2002). Integrating self-directed learning into curriculum:
A case study. In P
. Benson & S. Toogood (Eds.), Challenges to research and practice
(pp. 86–110). Dublin: Authentik.
Ulitsky, H. (2000). Language learner strategies with technology. Educational Computing
Research, 22, 285–322.
Vanijdee, A. (2003). Thai distance English learners and learner autonomy. Open Learning,
18(1), 75–84.
Winke, P
., & Goertler, S. (2008). Did we forget someone? Students’ computer access and
literacy for CALL. CALICO Journal, 25(3), 483–509.
Zhao, Y. (2005). Research in technology and second language education. Developments
and directions. Greenwich, CT: Information Age Publishing.
Glossary and
abbreviations
ACL Association for Computational
Linguistics.
ACTFL American Council on the Teaching of
Foreign Languages.
AES Automatic Essay Scoring or Automatic
Writing Evaluation (AWE), software that
uses natural language processing to rate
students’ writing and provide feedback.
AI Artiﬁcial Intelligence, the ability of a
computer to mimic human attributes in
ﬁnding a solution to a problem.
AILA Association Internationale de
Linguistique Appliquée.
ARG Alternative Reality Game, an
immersive online game in which
participants’ actions may change the
game’s narrative or storyline.
ASR Automatic Speech Recognition, a
branch of human language technologies
devoted to the automatic processing of
human speech.
ASST Automatic Spoken Spanish Test.
Asynchronous communication by email or
via a discussion list, where the recipients
or participants in the discussion do not
have to be present at the same time.
Avatar a graphical representation of a real
person, such as used in a MUVE or
MMORPG.
AWE Automatic Writing Evaluation,
software used to assess learners’
writing and provide feedback. See also
AES.
Bandwidth the amount of data that can
be sent from one computer to another
through a particular connection in a
certain amount of time.
BBC British Broadcasting Corporation.
Blackboard a commercial Virtual Learning
Environment (VLE) that integrates online
communications software with content
software enabling teachers to create
courses online.
Blended Learning a combination of
internet-based distance learning with
face-to-face tuition but it may also be
used to describe ofﬂine ICT-based
materials with more traditional
print-based materials.
Blog or Weblog, a website that contains
discrete pieces of information in a
diary format posted by different users
such as news items, short essays,
annotated links, documents, graphics
and multimedia.
BNC British National Corpus, a collection
containing an estimated 100 million
words of spoken and written British
English from the twentieth century.
Broadband a high-speed connection to the
internet.
BYU Brigham Young University.
CAI Computer Assisted Instruction, used
mainly in the business world. Implies a
top-down, instructor-centred approach to
teaching with computers.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
378
CAL Computer Assisted Learning.
CALI Computer-Assisted Language
Instruction.
CALICO Computer-Assisted Language
Instruction Consortium, a professional
association based in the United States
founded in 1982.
CALIS Computer-Assisted Language
Instruction System.
CALL Computer-Assisted Language
Learning, a term which came into
favour in the early 1980s, replacing the
older term CALI to explore the use of
digital devices in language learning and
teaching.
CALL-IS Computer-Assisted Language
Learning-Interest Section, this special
interest group is associated with the
worldwide TESOL organization.
CARLA Centre for Advanced Research on
Language Acquisition.
CATE Center for Advanced Technology in
Education.
CBLT Computer-Based Language Testing.
CCCC Conference on College Composition
and Communication.
CD-ROM Compact Disc Read-Only
Memory, an Optical Disc on to which
data has been written via a laser.
CEFR Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages, a scheme
developed by the Council of Europe
with the aim of providing a basis for
the mutual recognition of language
qualiﬁcations, thus facilitating mobility.
CERN Centre Européen pour la Recherche
Nucléaire, the European particle physics
laboratory and the birthplace of the
World Wide Web invented there by Sir
Tim Berners-Lee.
CIBER Centres for International Education
and Research.
CLIPS Computerized Language Instruction
and Practice Software.
CLT Communicative Language Teaching,
an approach that foregrounded learner
interaction and communication as the
main goal of language teaching.
CMC Computer-Mediated Communication,
a term describing the use of the
internet as a means of fostering
teaching and learning, especially the
use of email, conferencing and social
networking.
CMCLL Computer-Mediated
Communication and Language Learning.
CMS Content Management System, a
software package that makes it possible
for non-technical users to publish
content on a website.
CoI Community of Inquiry, typically a
community of educators involved in a
group who explore and examine issues
and debates relevant to their teaching or
research.
Collaborative Writing a process that
involves the creation and editing
of documents using Web 2.0 tools
designed for use by multiple authors.
Concordance Program or concordancer
operates on a body of texts (a corpus)
and is commonly used for compiling
glossaries and dictionaries.
COP Communities of Practice, typically a
group of people who collaborate and
share their experience and professional
knowledge.
COPI Computerized Oral Proﬁciency
Instruments.
COTS Commerical Off the Shelf Game,
ready-made software that cannot be
customized.
Courseware a set of computerized lessons,
exercises, tests and reference material.
CPD Continuing Professional Development,
on-going and further study relevant
to one’s profession in order to retain
and develop one’s knowledge and
understanding.
CTL Commonly Taught Languages.
Cyberspace refers to communication in
online environments.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS 379
DCALL Distance Computer-Assisted
Language Learning, learning a language
typically via computer-mediated
communication (CMC).
DDL Data Driven Learning, an approach
to language learning whereby learners
gain insights into the target language by
using concordance programs to locate
authentic examples of language in use.
DECU/TUCO Deutscher
Computerunterricht/Tutorial Computer.
Digital refers to technologies and devices
such as computers and portable
mobile devices as well as Web-based
applications and tools.
Discussion List or forum, a way for sharing
emails with the members of a group
that utilizes asynchronous messaging.
DL Distance Learning, learning that takes
place when teachers and students are in
physically separate locations, using print
or electronic forms of study.
DTP Desk Top Publishing.
DVD Digital Video Disc.
E-learning learning with Information and
Communications Technologies (ICTs).
EAP English for Academic Purposes,
learning English for integration into
educational contexts such as prior to
studying for a degree in the United
Kingdom.
EFL English as a Foreign Language,
learning English in a non-English
speaking context, for example, a
Japanese person learning English in
Japan.
EIEGL Échanges Interculturels Exolingues
en Groupe en Lingue.
ESL English as a Second Language,
learning English in an English-speaking
environment, for example, a Japanese
person learning English in England.
ETS English Testing Service.
EU European Commission.
EUROCALL Europe-based professional
association for CALL, founded in 1986.
F2F Face-to-Face, presence-based learning.
FL Foreign Language.
FLAS Foreign Language and Area Studies.
FLCAS Foreign Language Classroom
Anxiety Scale.
GMAT Graduate Management Admissions
Test.
GPS Global Positioning System, a
satelite-based navigation system which
provides real-time updates on a current
location.
GRE Graduate Record Examination.
GWU George Washington University.
HCI Human-Computer Interaction,
the study of people and computer
technology.
IATEFL International Association of
Teachers of English as a Foreign
Language.
ICALL Intelligent CALL, an approach to
CALL that makes use of sophisticated
programming techniques that mimic
human intelligence.
ICC Intercultural Communicative
Competence.
ICT Information and Communications
Technology, where ‘C’ reﬂects the
important role that computers now
play in communications, for example,
by email, the Web, by satellite and
cellphone (mobile phone).
IECC Intercultural Email Classroom
Connections.
IJCALLT International Journal of
Computer-Assisted Language Learning
and Teaching.
ILR Interagency Language Roundtable.
ILTS Intelligent Language Tutoring
System.
IM Instant Messenging, the real-time
exchange of short messages typically
using a phone or computer.
IRF Initiate Response Feedback, a typical
pattern of response or dialogue
between an instructor and a student.
IRT Item Response Theory.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
380
ITS Intelligent Tutoring System.
IWB Interactive Whiteboard, a
touch-sensitive projection screen or
board that allows the teacher to control
a computer directly by touching the
screen.
K-12 Primary and secondary education.
L1 Mother Tongue or First Language.
L2 Second Language.
LAN Local Area Network.
LCTL Less Commonly Taught Languages.
LLT Language Learning & Technology
journal, a leading open access journal for
CALL research.
LMS Learning Management Systems,
similar to a virtual learning environment
but typically used in a corporate learning
context.
LOM Learning Object Modules, a group of
resources and content typically used
with a VLE.
m-learning Mobile Learning, using portable
digital devices such as phones or PDAs.
MALL Mobile-Assisted Language Learning,
the use of portable devices such as
smartphones for language learning.
Mashup a Webpage that brings together
data from two or more Web services
and combines the data into a new
application with added functionality.
MAT Machine Assisted Translation, the use
of computers to assist human beings
in the process of translating natural
languages.
MBA Master of Business Administration.
MITUPV Massachusetts Institute of
Technology-Universidad Politécnica de
Valencia Project.
MMORPG Massively Multiplayer Online
Role-Playing Game, an advanced type
of virtual world in which players adopt
avatars to explore fantasy worlds.
MOO Multi-User-Domain Object Oriented,
an early form of immersive virtual world
that was text-based.
Moodle a popular open source Virtual
Learning Environment (VLE).
MP3 MPEG Layer 3, a ﬁle format for
storing high-quality audio ﬁles that
can be played back on computers and
portable media players.
MT Machine Translation, the use of
computer software to produce
translations of one language to another.
MTALL Machine-Translation-Assisted
Language Learning.
MUD Multi-User-Domain or Multi-User
Dungeon, is an early form of an
immersive role-playing game typically
set in a fantasy world.
MUVE Multi-User Virtual Environment,
an earlier name for a Virtual World
and further development of the MUD
concept.
NASILP National Association of
Self-Instructional Language Programs.
NBLT Network-Based Language Teaching,
the use of computers which are
connected together for language
teaching.
NCRLC National Capital Language Resource
Center.
NIAFLAR Network Interaction in Foreign
Language Acquisition and Research
Project.
Ning a platform that enables users to
create their own social network focusing
on a particular topic or catering to a
speciﬁc membership.
NLP Natural Language Processing, a term
used to describe the use of computers
to process information expressed in
natural (i.e., human) languages.
NNS Non-Native Speakers.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS 381
NPC Non-Player Characters, typically a
character in a game that is controlled by
the computer and not by a user.
NSEP National Security Education Program.
OHP Overhead Projector.
Open Source refers to software that is
provided free of charge along with its
original source code, so that it can be
modiﬁed by the user.
OU Open University (UK).
PCK Pedagogical Content Knowledge,
knowledge required of an instructional
area both in terms of content as well as
how it can be taught to learners.
PDA Personal Digital Assistant, a handheld
device that combines computing,
audio communication, browsing and
networking features and serves as an
organizer for personal information.
PLATO Programmed Logic for Automated
Teaching Operations, a computer-aided
instruction system dating from the early
1960s developed at the University of
Illinois.
PLE Personal Learning Environment, unlike
a Virtual Learning Environment (VLE), an
approach to using new technologies that
enables learners to develop and control
their own learning environment using a
range of online tools.
PMI Physical Mobile Interaction.
POS Point of Speech.
PS2 Play Station 2.
QA Quality Assurance.
QR Quick Response code, a
two-dimensional barcode that can
store a variety of different types of
information such as a website URL or
email address.
RSS enables users to subscribe to
websites that change or add content
regularly.
RTS Real-Time Strategy game.
SALTMIL Speech and Language Technology
for Minority Languages.
SCSI Small Computer System Interface.
Semantic Web an extension of Web 2.0
whereby data available in different
locations can be linked together to
facilitate sophisticated sharing and
search capabilities.
Simulation type of program that simulates
a real-life situation, allowing users to
carry out experiments which could have
dangerous consequences or which
are impractical in a normal learning
environment.
SL Second Language.
SL Second Life, an immersive 3D virtual
world originally launched in 2003 by
Linden Lab in the United States.
SLA Second-Language Acquisition,
concerned with the study of how people
learn second languages.
SLTE Second Language Teacher
Education.
Smartphone an advanced mobile phone
that offers a wide range of appications
including a music player, camera, GPS
navigation and a Web browser.
SMS Short Message System, a text
messaging service typically used on
mobile phones.
Social Media used to describe a variety
of Web 2.0 applications that enable
people to share images, audio
recordings and video recordings via the
Web and to initiate discussions about
them.
Social Networking a type of website where
people befriend others who share
their interests, ﬁnd out what’s going
on in their areas of interest and share
information with one another.
SOPI Simulated Oral Proﬁciency Interview,
a performance-based speaking test.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
382
SP Social Presence, the degree to
which participants can represent their
identity in an enviroment, whether
face-to-face or via computer-mediated
communication (CMC).
Speech Recognition technologies devoted
to developing programs and devices that
enable computers to recognize, analyse
and transcribe human speech.
SRI Stanford Research Institute.
Synchronous refers to communication in
a chat toom or via videoconferencing,
where the participants can
communicate in real-time.
Tablet Computer a compact portable
computer that makes use of a
touchscreen instead of a keyboard for
typing and running applications.
Tandem Learning refers to two language
learners who pair up in order to learn
each other’s language. This may take
place face-to-face or via the internet.
TBL Task-Based Learning, an approach to
learning in which the learner acquires
knowledge of the subject that is being
studied by focusing on a speciﬁed task.
TBLT Task-Based Language Teaching,
the application of TBL principles in
language learning, focusing on meaning
and communication in authentic
environments.
TCCR Tandberg Computer Controlled
Cassette Recorder.
TELL Technology Enhanced Language
Learning, refers to the wider range of
uses of technology in language learning
and teaching than the more common
term CALL.
TESOL Teachers of English to Speakers of
Other Languages.
TGF Tutor Group Forum.
TICCIT Time-shared Interactive Computer
Controlled Information Television, an
early computer-aided instruction system
dating from 1977 developed in the
United States.
TMA Tutor Marked Assignment.
TOEFL Test of English as a Foreign
Language.
UCI University of California, Irvine.
UCLA University of California, Los Angeles.
UGC User-Generated Content, a term
associated with Web 2.0 in which users
can develop their own resources such
as in the form of a blog or wiki.
UNESCO United Nations Education, Social
and Cultural Organisation.
VCR Video Cassette Recorder.
Videoconferencing a computer-based
system that allows a group of computer
users at different locations to see and
hear one another as if they were in the
same room.
VLE Virtual Learning Environment, a
Web-based package designed to
help teachers create online courses,
incorporating communication and
content tools.
VR Virtual Reality, the simulation of
an environment by presentation of
3D moving images and associated
sounds.
VSTF Visual-SyntacticText Formatting, a
method to enhance online reading that
arranges text into cascading lines of text.
VW Virtual World, an online 3D imaginary
world or game in which participants and
players adopt characters or avatars and
explore the world, engaging in voice
and/or text chat.
VWLL Virtual Worlds and Language Learning.
WAN Wide Area Network.
Web 2.0 an attempt to redeﬁne the Web
and how it is used based on the use of
collaborative applications such as blogs,
podcasts, wikis and social networking
websites.
Webquest a task-oriented activity in which
the learner draws on material from
different websites in order to achieve a
speciﬁc goal.
WELL Web-Enhanced Language Learning.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS 383
WiFi Wireless Local Area Network.
Wiki a website which allows anyone to set
up a resource in which content can be
edited collectively.
WOW World of Warcraft, a massively
multiplayer online role-playing game
(MMORPG), with an estimated 10
million users.
WWW World Wide Web or simply the Web,
it refers to the huge collection of online
resources which is accessed by means
of a browser.
WYSIWYG What You See Is What You
Get, a content creation tool which
displays what is seen during
editing as the completed
product.
ZPD Zone of Proximal Development,
deriving from the work of
Vygotsky, it indicates the difference
between what can be achieved
by independent learning and
learning with the guidance
of others.
This glossary derives in part from ‘The Glossary of ICT Terminology’ compiled by
Professor Graham Davies and Fred Riley and located at the ICT4LT website (www.
ict4lt.org/en/en_glossary.htm). Extracts are reprinted here with permission from the
authors.
Index
A la rencontre de Philippe 29
active participation 60
Active Worlds 32, 185, 346
activity, theory 64, 69, 258
adult-only virtual content 167
affective dimensions 47
Apple Inc 2
Applied Linguistics 16, 256
artiﬁcial intelligence 4, 249
Asian language learners 341, 343
assessment of speaking skills 84
asynchronous 32, 39, 346
AT&T Learning Circles 126
audio-enhanced software 29
audio-lingual 21
augmented reality (AR) 8, 212
Australian universities 152
authentic communication 125
authentic learning environments 9
authentic listening 310
authentic materials 26
autonomous strategies 330
autonomy 154
avatars 165, 180, 346, 353
AZAR Project 333
BBC 310
BBC Micro 29
behavioural CALL 30
behaviourist pedagogy 2, 51
Berners-Lee, Tim 31
bilingual identity 46
Blackboard 31
blended learning 142
blogs 4, 43
Bluetooth 212
Bruner, Jerome 344
Bubbl.us 347
Busuu 5
CALICO 4, 20, 257
CALL materials design 15
CALL research 16
CALL-Austria 21
CALLBoard 20
CBLT content 84
CBLT training 83
CD-ROM 2, 29, 68, 217
CERN 31
challenge/adventure games 186
chat logs 44, 294, 347
Chinese learners 23, 48
Chomsky, Noam 56
class anxiety 352
classroom-based language learning 41
CLEF 25
Club Penguin 162
cognitive approaches 19
cognitive presence 101
cognitive-constructivist 26
collaborative learning 5, 33, 149, 347
collaborative writing 294
Colossal Cave Adventure 162
comfort zone 233
Common European Framework 7
communicative CALL 30
communities of practice (COP) 60
community of indicators framework 111
community of inquiry (CoI) 95
Computational Linguistics 251
computational systems 250
computer assessment 17
computer assessment of vocabulary 84
computer assessment of writing 85
Computer Science 251
computer-assisted instruction 20
computer-assisted language
instruction 20
computer-assisted language testing 73–94
computer-assisted reading 268
computer-assisted reading materials 270
computer-based language testing 73
computer-generated feedback 330
computer-mediated communication 20, 97
INDEX
386
computer-supported reading 267
concordancers 27
constructivism 3, 347
content-based instruction 153
contextualised instruction 59
copyright 314
CopyWire 28
corpora 27
corpus of blogs 133
corrective feedback 329
COTS 183–96
course management systems 43
CoverItLive 274
Criterion 289
critical literacy 40
critical thinking skills 277
Croquelandia 185
cross-cultural understanding 9
Cultura model 131
cultural artefacts 61
cyber predators 167
data-driven learning 26
Developing Tray 28
Dewey, John 343
diagnostic self-testing 146
DIALANG 74
digital archives 8
digital divide 218, 225
digital education 2
digital feedback 323–40
digital games 8, 120, 183–200
digital kitchen 342
digital literacy 1, 5, 346, 350
digital media 1, 33
digital natives 2, 202, 210, 309
digital technologies 26
distance CALL 119, 141–58
distance learning 1, 185
drill-and-kill 25
drill-and-practice 21
drill-based learning 183
Drillmaster 21
DVD 29, 218, 234
e-book 3, 168
e-learning 31, 142
e-readers 6
e-tandem 124, 130
e-textbooks 278
E-Tutor 250, 253
early reading development 269
Eclipse 28
educational psychology 360
educational radio 221
educational revolution 6
educational video games 192
EFL 46, 186, 268
electronic dictionaries 3
email 133
Encounters Series 31
English as a Second Language (ESL), 22,
49, 79
English for Academic Purposes 17
ePals 135
Erasmus, programme 135
error correction 328, 330
ESL/EFL community 288
ethnographic research 6
eTwinning 135
EuroCALL 4
European Commission 57
European Commission Comenius
Project 184
Ever Quest II 184
EXERCISE 24
F2F classrooms 42
Facebook 204
Fathom Project 166
feedback 154, 206, 293
Flash animations 308
Flash-based applications 221
ﬂexible learning 26
FLUENT 254
focus on form 328
foreign language classroom anxiety
scale 48
foreign language instruction 102
Foreign language learning 218
formal education 123
FRIDA 257
friendship applications 43
Fun with Texts 28
game identities 193
gaming environments 44
German-American electronic exchange 127
German language 24
Gersang 188
Girl Sense 164
global positioning system (GPS) 212
INDEX 387
globalization 8
GMAT 291
Google search 209
GoogleDocs 289
Graduate Record Examination 291
Granville 25
Guardian, The 132
guide on the side 6
History of CALL 19–38
holodeck 160
Hot Potatoes 31, 65
human-computer interaction 4, 250
human-human interaction 186
hybrid courses 313
IALLT 4
IATEFL 4, 237
IBM PC 29
ICALL 6
ICT 58, 218, 236
IECC 126
IELTS 77
ILTS 258
information society 133
in-game questing 189
instructor-directed strategies 330
integrated CALL 202, 220
integrative CALL 30
intelligent CALL 249–66
intelligent tutoring systems 250
IntelliMetric 291
interaction 250, 329
interaction hypothesis 130
interactive programs 19
interactive speaking activities 151
interactive videodisc 29
intercultural awareness 154
intercultural communicative
competence 126
intercultural competence 175
intercultural contact 133
international students 49
Internet of things 212
iPod 150
iTunes 65
JALT 4
Japan 65
Japanese learners 133, 209, 353
Jobs, Steve 2
Juegos Comunicativos 25
Just Grandma and Me 31
K-12 schools 191
kanji 313
Korean learners 49
L2 identities 355
L2 learning 47
L2 readers 271
L2 speakers 153
language lab 229
language teacher education 57
language teaching context 219
laptop computers 220
learner anxiety 154
learner autonomy 359–76
learner conﬁdence 48
learner-centric 7
learning behaviour 171
learning management systems 227
less commonly taught languages
(LCTL) 303
lexical-grammatical errors 326
listening skills 19
LiveMocha 5, 47
local area network (LAN) 125
London Adventure 25
lower-proﬁciency learners 188
low-tech environments 121, 217–44
Machine Translation (MT) 252
mainframes 19
materials design 95–116
MBA 152
media networks 221
media tablets 2
microcomputers 28
micro-Concord 27
mind-mapping 347
MIT 133
mixed methods research 45
MMORGs 160, 165
mobile technologies 5
mobile-assisted language learning 201–16
Monde, Le 132
MonoConc 27
Montevidisco 29
Moodle 334
MOOs 125
Mosaic 31
INDEX
388
motivation 154
MP3 player 65, 150, 203
MSN 298, 312
MUD 162
multimedia 20
multimodality 154
multitasking 202
MUVEs 32
My Access 255
MySpace 221
National Center for Supported eText 278
native speakers 306
native-speaker peers 131
natural language processing (NLP) 250,
307
negotiating skills 129
Netscape 31
network-based language learning
(NBLT) 56
networked sensors 212
NIAFLAR Project 185
Ning 123
non-player characters 192
non-Roman writing systems 311
Nori School 187
normalization 6, 28, 34, 134
noticing 250
Nuevos Destinos 31
online archives 5
online communities 2, 5, 112
online environments 39
online language learning 41
online learning 143
open access 5
open source 149
Open University 100, 143
OpenSim 185
participatory literacy 112
PDA 204–8
pedagogical content knowledge 58
peer feedback 51
peer involvement 298
peer-tutoring 49
pen pals 124
phases of CALL 30
phonetic keyboard 312
photo sharing 4
physical mobile interaction 212
PLATO project 21, 162
PLEVALEX 82
podcast 4, 33, 206
Poptropica 164
positivist 40
post-industrial education 2
post-PBLL 171
PowerPoint 232
Prensky, Marc 202
presence-based environments 345
project-oriented learning 60
pronunciation 19
prosumer 5
PS2 184
psycholinguistic approaches 19
psychometric 74
QR codes 212
QuickAssist 254
read/write Web 346
reading environments 267–86
reﬂection in-action 61
reﬂection on-action 61
repair strategies 46
Rhubarb 28
Robo-Sensei 253, 308
Rosetta Stone 309
Russian 79
scaffolding 189
second language acquisition (SLA) 16, 250,
315, 325, 346
second language writing research 325
Second Life 34, 48, 160, 246
self-access 359–75
Sentence Fairy, The 253
Silent Way 361
Sims 186
situated learning 60, 369
Smartphones 3, 6, 148
snail mail 217
SNS interaction 133
social awareness 174
social CALL 7
social communities 61
social dimensions of language learning 20
social media 4, 9, 15, 40
social networking 123, 288
INDEX 389
social presence 95
social technologies 7
social turn 46
social Web 133
sociocollaborative learning 345
sociocultural learning 267
sociocultural theory 16, 55, 107
sociocultural turn 60
socioemotional talk 187
sociolinguistic 41
socio-technical 2
Spanish 23, 164
special interest group 236
Spion 25
stand-alone PC 228
stand-alone video games 184
Standards for Foreign Language
Learning 7
statistical NLP 257
storyboard 28
storyline approach 105
Suggestopedia 361
supported learning 143
Swedish as a foreign language 254
synchronous 7
, 39
synchronous audiographic
conferencing 151
tablets 3
Talking Books CD 30
tandem language learning 127
task-based learning 3, 26, 341–58
TCCR 28, 530
TEACH-Act 315
teacher education 65
teacher prompting 171
technology-enhanced language learning
(TELL) 20
telecollaboration 49, 123–40
teletandem 124
TELL Consortium 21
TELL ME MORE 332
TESOL 372
TESOL Electronic Village 228
text-based chat 329
text-based synchronous 100
text-to-speech 278
TICCIT 21
TOEFL 65, 82
TOEFL iBT 81
TOEIC 65
transmission mode of pedagogy 7
TUCO II 25
TUTOR 21
Tutorial CALL 258
twenty-ﬁrst century learning 4
Twitter 204
UCLES 74
UNESCO 219–20, 223
Unicode consortium 23
University of Hull 24
validity concerns 74
VEC3D Project 185
Vertex Project 166
video blogs 221
video sharing 4
videocassette recorder 219
videocasts 33
videoconferencing 128
virtual art gallery 169
virtual spaces 56
virtual worlds 159–82, 352
visual syntactic text formatting 271
VLE 31, 65, 110, 149
vocabulary proﬁler 372
Vygotsky, Lev 56
Web 2.0, 4, 5, 120, 218, 220, 243, 269
Web-based instruction 7
, 24, 73
wiki 123
Wikipedia 254, 305
wikis 4, 35, 43, 221, 236
Wikispaces 33
Wimba 335
wireless internet access 225
word recognition 269
World of Warcraft 160, 346
World Wide Web 3
wow factor 8
WriteToLearn 291
writing genres 329
writing instruction 19, 287–302
writing tasks 298
young learners 59
Zon 190
zone of proximal development (ZPD) 165
