	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
is a corpus based study, drawn from a corpus of about 109,000 words of Old
English, which has been collected for cross-linguistic comparison with a morpho-
logically even more synthetic language, Old Irish. The study suggests that mor-
phological syntheticity is no restraining factor for the use of syntactically analytic
light verb constructions.
For the Middle English period, Denison (1981) is a comprehensive survey of
different kinds of group verbs in one text, the Ormulum, while Matsumoto (1999;
2008) draws on a large corpus in which she identifies uses of the most frequent
light verbs. Ronan (2012b) investigates especially the use of foreign-derived pred-
icate nouns in some Chaucer materials. For the Early Modern period, Hiltunen
(1999) investigates light verbs in drama texts, Tanabe (1999) studies their use in
the Paston Letters, while Kytö (1999) examines collocational and idiomatic prop-
erties of the most frequent verbs in the combinations. Claridge (2000) is a corpus-
based study of different kinds of group verbs in the roughly 1.2 million word
Lampeter Corpus, which spans the period from 1640 to 1740 (Claridge 2000: 5).
Claridge (2000: 5, 132) identifies 32 verbs which are used in 241 light verb con-
structions, with make, take, give, have, put and do leading the table, followed by be,
set, lay, beg, call, stand, crave, run, see and bring with more than 10 tokens each
(2000: 122). These findings prove that looking beyond the most frequent verbs will
provide considerable numbers of light verb types and tokens.
Predictably, a number of studies of light verb constructions in Modern English
exists, but barring oversight, there are only few comprehensive corpus based stud-
ies. Hoffmann (1972) is a corpus based study of light verbs in American drama
from the 1950ies and 1960ies. Allerton (2002) examines light verbs in the 1 million
word Lancaster-Oslo-Bergin (LOB) corpus, collected in the early 1960ies, but the
study is as yet restricted to predicate nouns starting with the letter a. Algeo (1995)
has likewise examined LOB, as well as its American counterpart, the Brown cor-
pus, for the five most frequent light verbs. In LOB, Algeo found the following
counts of light verbs:
Table 1.  Light verb tokens in the LOB and Brown corpora (after Algeo 1995: 214).
Light verb tokens in 1 mil. word
LOB
tokens in 1 mil. word
Brown
Tokens per 2 million
words
have 100   55 155
make   67   59 126
give   40   40   80
Take   38   38   79
do    0    4    4
total 199 245 444 (222/ 1 mil.)
	 Patricia Ronan
Against this background of studies carried out on contemporary and earlier
varieties, let us now move on to consider the developments in data which is
sampled on one coherent principle from the Old English to the Early Modern
English period.
3.	 Data and method
The data for the present study has been obtained by manual and semi-automatic
searches of ca. 50,000 words each of Old English, Middle English, and Early Mod-
ern English texts from mixed genres. For the Old English period, data has been
collected from the Toronto Dictionary Corpus in Electronic form (diPaulo Healy
et al. 2004), and the data is a subset of a ca. 108,800 word data set that contrib-
uted to an earlier study (Ronan 2012a). It represents a genre mix of poetry, histor-
ical-religious narrative in translation from Latin, original narrative and annalistic
evidence (see Table 2). The Middle English data mainly stems from the Helsinki
Corpus (Kytö 1996 [1991]) and has been supplemented by data from the General
Prologue and The Knights Tale from Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales (de Castro, n.d.).
In addition to the latter, original religious narrative has been used in the form of
data from The Book of Margery Kempe and short legal material from the Statutes
of the Realm. Data from the Early Modern Period has been taken from the
Helsinki Corpus only. The intention has been to collect in the corpus texts all
instances of semantically low-content verbs that are predicated by predicate noun
objects, and in which the resulting verbal group forms a single semantic unit.
Thus, the predicate nouns are either action nouns, or abstract nouns whose col-
location with verbs could be paralleled by simple verbs, e.g. make a story or do
evil. The existence of a corresponding simplex at the period of attestation is not
considered a strict criterion, however, as simplexes may have come into existence
only later, such as in the case of a/to battle, or, conversely, they may have existed
in the past as in the case of to take wife, to which Old English wīfian correspond-
ed, but was lost later. Clearly, even if they are not at the time of attestation, light
verb constructions may at some point in time be paralleled by a simplex. If any
doubt existed as to whether a structure should be considered a light verb con-
struction, inclusion has generally been opted for. Overtly aspectual or causal
verbs, such as onginnan/gan ‘begin, start’, have however been excluded in this
study. These sampling considerations have continuously been followed in all pe-
riods under scrutiny.
Particularly in more literary genres from the Middle English period onwards,
a doubling of predicate nouns was repeatedly found. In order not to distort the
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
counts of light verb constructions, here only the predicate noun closer to the verb
is used2, e.g.
	 (4)	 Ne yif us neither mercy ne refuge, ... . (KnT 1720)
		 ‘Give use neither mercy nor escape.’
	 (5)	 But swich a cry and swich a wo they make ... . (KnT 900)
		 ‘But they make such cry and such woe.’
In addition, cases were found where two verbs were used together with two predi-
cate nouns. In these cases one collocation each was counted, e.g. make corruption
and worke disinherison in the following example.
	 (6)	 Provided also, That no Attainder for this Offence made Felonie
		 by this Acte, shall make or worke any corruption of Blood Losse of Dower or
disinherison of Heire or Heires. (Statutes IV 519–20)
This methodology has been adopted to make the frequency counts of light verb
constructions comparable throughout the periods. As will be seen in Sections 4.
and 5, the frequencies of light verb constructions remain high for the Middle Eng-
lish period in spite of the count being based on the attestation of verbs rather than
predicate nouns.
After these methodological preliminaries, we will describe the structures in
Old-, Middle and Early Modern English.
4.	 Data from the history of English
4.1	 Old English data
The Old English data investigated for this study consists of approximately 45,000
words (cf. Table 2). It predominantly stems from texts from the later Anglo-Saxon
period, but the composition date of one text, Beowulf, is still disputed (cf. Orchard
2003: 19–25).
In the Old English sample corpus investigated for this study, 93 light verb tokens
have been found. In the corpus data, the most frequent verbs do not correspond to
contemporary English attestations. Instead, the most frequent verbs were fremman,
niman, habban, wyrcan, and dōn and sellan. Particularly interesting is fremman ‘per-
form’, which does appear in Bede, but is disproportionately frequent in Beowulf.
2.	 The author is aware that this can potentially result in incomplete attestation of the predicate
nouns in the corpus material. However, as the corpus texts are only a very small selection of the
extant material for each of the periods, complete attestation of all light verb constructions with-
in the period cannot be aimed for in the context of this study and it seemed most important to
focus on comparability of frequency counts.
	 Patricia Ronan
Table 2.  Old English corpus texts.
Text Words Genre Period Light verb frequencies/
100,000
Anglo-Saxon
Chron A
15 000 Chronicle 9th-10th century 187
Beowulf 12 000 Poetry 9th – 10th century 333
Ohthere and
Wulfstan
2500 Travel narrative 10th century 120
Bede I (extract) 16 500 Historical narrative 10th-11th century 133
Old English total 45000 207
	 (7)	 ...swa deorlice dæd gefremede fagum sweordum
		 ‘He performed a valuable deed with shining swords.’ (Beo [0162 (583)])
	 (8)	 .. ac ymb Hreosnabeorh eatolne inwitscear oft gefremedon.
		 ‘But often committed dreadful malicious slaughter at Hreosnabeorh.’
		 (Beo [0681 (2472)])
Fremman seems to correspond to later dōn and macian collocations and denotes
active implementation of the action described by the predicate noun. Fremman is
used in 15 different types, and particularly help and dæd ‘deed’ show notable token
frequencies at 4 and 3 respectively. The predicate nouns may either have an equiva-
lent verb or not, though the latter is rarer in the sample. There are no examples of
fremman in the samples from Chronicle A or Ohthere and Wulfstan. This may in-
dicate that fremman is used more in poetic diction than in non-literary contexts.
Semantically, fremman shares some space with wyrcan ‘cause, work’, which is also
used in the corpus material. While wyrcan might express causation more than im-
plementation in some examples, in others the parallels to fremman are strong, e.g.
	 (9)	 & þær is mid Estum an mægð þæt hi magon cyle gewyrcan
		 ‘The Estonians have the ability that they can create cold’
		 (Or1 [0148 (1.17.33)])
The parameters that govern this interaction need further research on the basis of a
larger corpus. From the sample texts it appears that in addition to semantic con-
tent and individual stylistic preferences, alliteration between light verb and predi-
cate nouns also favours the use of light verbs constructions.
Next in frequency in the data sample is the light verb niman ‘to take’. This too is
found with some instances in Bede I, but shows highest token frequency in the
Chronicle A, where it particularly appears in apparently set expressions like sige ni-
man ‘take victory’ and freod nimman ‘make peace’ (10 examples each). In contrast
to fremman, the type frequency for niman in the sample is low, but the tokens appear
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
repeatedly, which will be at least partly due to the subject matter of the Chronicles,
which are of course much concerned with the topics of victory and peace.
	 (10)	 & þy ilcan geare gefeaht Ecgbryht cyning & Beornwulf cyning on Ellendune,
& Ecgbryht sige nam
		 ‘That same year king Ecgbryht and king Beornwulf fought at Ellendune
and Ecgbryht took victory.’ (ChronA [029810 (823.2)])
In spite of its high attestation numbers in these cases, niman may not be entirely
grammaticalized in the contexts, as alternative structures exist with habban, as in
(11) below. By and large, the collocations with niman indicate or emphasize that
the agent benefits from the predicate noun.
Habban ‘have’ is a further high-frequency light verb in the sample corpus.
Akimoto & Brinton (1999: 50) point out that one of the effects of using this light
verb with predicate nouns is that using an otherwise obligatory object of an action
noun may be avoided, as in cyððe habban ‘to have knowledge’ as opposed to X
cyðan ‘make X known’. They further stress that in the nominal construction, the
predicate noun may be modified by an adjective, and that this is not possible with
the simple verb. The collocation of habban and predicate noun typically expresses
a state or a result state as illustrated by
	 (11)	 hi sona wið heora feondum gefuhtan, & sige hæfdan
		 ‘they soon fought with their enemies and had victory.’ (B1 0134 (9.44.28)].
This example illustrates the resultant state of peace. The example is also interesting
because sige ‘victory’ has no corresponding simple verb. That this is not of paramount
importance for the use of the light verb construction, however, is shown by the fact
that its synonym sib, which is paralleled by the simplex sibbian ‘to make peace’, is also
used in light verb constructions with habban. A survey of the instances of light verb
constructions in the Old English sample corpus is given in Table 3 below.
Overall, in the sample texts, the frequency of the light verb constructions was
highest in the poetic text of Beowulf with 40 tokens corresponding to a frequency
of 333 per 100,000 words. This is followed by the historical Chronicle A, whose 28
tokens correspond to a frequency of 187 per 100,000 words. There is a clear drop
in the narrative genres with a frequency of 133 in Bede I (22 tokens) and Ohthere
and Wulfstan at a frequency of 120, albeit on the basis of only few tokens (3 tokens).
This suggests that genre of the text, stylistically elevated or aiming for exactness of
expression, is a more important incentive for the use of the construction in Old
English than is the question of whether the text is translated from Latin or not. An
overview of the attestations of light verb constructions in the corpus are provided
in Table 3.
	 Patricia Ronan
Table 3.  Frequencies of light verb constructions in the Old English sample.
Verb Types Tokens Frequency per 100,000
Fremman 15 23   51
Niman   4 22   49
Habban 15 18   40
Wyrcan   8   9   20
Don   7   7   16
Sellan   7   7   16
Limpan   2   3    7
Beran   1   2    4
Dælan   1   1    2
Giefan   1   1    2
Total counts 61 93 207
4.2	 Middle English data
The Middle English data set for this study consists of approximately 51,000 words
taken from different genres. The source texts from the Helsinki Corpus are The
Book of Margery Kempe, and the roughly contemporary legal materials from the
Statutes of the Realm II from the Helsinki Corpus (Kytö, 1996 [1991]). Two ex-
amples of Chaucer’s late 14th century Canterbury Tales, The Prologue and the
Knight’s Tale are taken from the eChaucer corpus (Ne Castro, 2007). Texts and data
are tabulated in Table 4.
In the Middle English sample texts, the line-up of light verbs has changed
considerably from the Old English sample. The most frequently used light verbs
are have (114), make (61), do (45), take (26), and give (18). Further examples are
found with get, go, grant, hold, bring, perform, say, work, arrange, bear, commit,
exercise, find, hold, pursue, purvey and put.
Compared to the Old English data, both the raw number of tokens, as well as
the number of different types of predicate nouns used with the light verbs of high-
er frequency has increased. Particularly make, take and give have gained ground,
Table 4.  Middle English corpus texts.
Text Words Genre Period Light verb frequencies/
100,000
Chaucer 8422 + 21872 Poetry –1380–1400 494
Kempe 9670 Narrative 1436 672
Statutes II 11 271 Legal 1420–1500 790
MidE total 51235 595
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
while have and do remain well represented. The most frequent collocation in the
samples is have power, of which multiple examples are found in each text, e.g.
	 (12)	 þat þei schal no powyr haue ouyr þe neyþyr in body ne in sowle; ‘That they
shall not have power over you neither in body nor in soul.’(Kempe 151–2)
	 (13)	 that all such Commyssioners shuld have full power to make ordeigne and
execute Statutes. ‘That all such commissioners should have full power to
make, ordain and execute Statutes.’ (Statutes II, 25–7)
Have collocations are notably better attested than other verbs in the simple narra-
tive style of The Book of Margery Kempe.
Light verb constructions with do are not very well represented in Kempe nor
in the Statutes, but they are found with higher frequency (106/100,000 words) in
the Chaucer texts. With the do collocations, predicate nouns which have either a
French or a Latin heritage are frequent (cf. Ronan 2012b). Kempe uses 2 of 4 for-
eign derived nouns with do, do diligence and do message, but also the English de-
rived do business and do evil. In the Statutes II, 5 of 9 predicate nouns are foreign
derived. Foreign derived predicate nouns are, however, disproportionally frequent
in the Chaucer data (26 of 32 predicate nouns), e.g.
	 (14)	 And seith “ Arys, and do thyn observaunce.”
		 ‘And says “Arise and do your observance”.’ (KnT 1045)
Particularly in rhymed texts, such as the Canterbury Tales, the question of course
arises whether the use of light verb constructions must be considered due to a
desire to create rhyme. This may hold in some cases, such as do thyn observaunce,
which is followed by
	 (15)	 This maked Emelye have remembraunce To doon honour to May, and for to
ryse.
		 ‘This caused Emily do remember to do honour to May, and to rise.’
		 (KnT 1046–7)
In the consecutive eamples (14) and (15), observance and remembraunce with their
rhyming French suffix may well have been chosen for rhyming purposes, but the
example in the following line, doon honour is clearly not driven by this consider-
ation. But here, too, the effect of the light verb construction to increase syllable
count as compared to the simplex may have been an incentive (cf. Ronan 2012b).
Stylistic considerations may also play a role in legal texts such as the Statutes,
which display a strong tendency to consider every angle of a problem (e.g. Stat II,
406–7 below), but in the narrative of Kempe typically few overt stylistic explana-
tions of this sort apply.
	 Patricia Ronan
	 (16)	 By which Co[m]myssions, and auctoritie yeven to the seid Co[m]myssioners
in the seid fourme, meny greate hurtes and inconvenyences in dyv[er]s p[ar]
ties of this yor realme doon and had by encresse of Water were necessarily
redressed refourmed and amended...
		 ‘Many great hurts and inconveniences done and had in diverse parts of
your realm by increase of water were necessarily redressed, reformed and
amended by the commissioners and the authority given to the said com-
missioners in the said form.’ (Statutes II 68–72)
	 (17)	 & so sche dede hir massage as sche was comawndyd.
		 ‘And so she did her errand as she was commanded.’ (Kempe 218–19)
While in some cases stylistic considerations like rhyme, rhythm or other prag-
matic considerations may cause the use of the light verb, in this last example no
clear alternative involving a simple equivalent to do a message seems to exist.
The new light verbs in this period, make and take ostensibly replace fremman
and niman, and give replaces sellan, which had become more restricted in meaning
after the OE period. Though it has a more recent history as a light verb than do,
make has overtaken it in the sample texts from the Middle English period, where
it is already well represented with 38 tokens, though this might look different in a
larger corpus. Statutes II particularly use it in the context make feoffment ‘grant a
fief’, for which the simplex feoffen also existed (OED, sv feoff). Otherwise, make
mention is well attested, and make act and make list are also found repeatedly.
	 (18)	 þe creatur of whom þis tretys makyth mencyon
		 ‘The creature of whom this treatise makes mention.’ (Kempe 456–7)
There are also further examples with rarer verbs which continue to be medium
frequent or rare support verbs in contemporary English, such as grant or put (in)
(Allerton, 2002, pp. 186, 190), and an example of commit is in evidence:
	 (19)	 ... where the Attourney named in the seid Warrant put the seid Article in
execucion
		 ‘where the attorney named in the said warrant put the said article in
execution’ (Statues II 628–9)
	 (20)	 ... all man~ of accions [...] to graunt to ev~y of such p~sones p~teccion
[...]
		 ‘all manner of actions to grant protection to all such persons’
		 (Statutes II, 292–4)
	 (21)	 Forasmuche as Thomas Crofte commytted a detestable murdre within the
Marches of Wales
		 ‘Forasmuch as Thomas Crofte committed a detestable murder within the
Marches of Wales’ (Statutes II, 829)
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
Table 5.  Light verbs in the Middle English sample.
Verb Types Tokens Token f/100,000
Have   75 114 223
Make   38   61 119
Do   32   45   88
Take   18   26   50
Give   14   18   35
Others   25   41   61
Total counts 232 305 595
The distributions of light verbs in the Middle English samples are shown in
Table 5.
Table 5 shows that the frequency of light verb constructions has risen to 595
examples per 100,000 words in the sample corpus, as compared to 207 examples
per 100,000 words in the Old English sample texts. While the increase of almost
200% is indeed very notable, it is not so exorbitant that we could argue that the
structure is only emerging in the Old English period. But the higher type frequen-
cies in Middle English indicate that the semantic spread of the constructions
seems to be increasing.
4.3	 Early Modern English data
The Early Modern data sample totals about 53,000 words, all taken from the
Helsinki Corpus. A genre mix has again been attempted. The eight textual extracts
also contain legal material from the Statutes of the Realm IV, rhyming drama as
well as non-rhyming drama, historical writing, travelogue and a sermon as indi-
cated in Table 6.
In the Early Modern material, have and make retain their positions as most
frequent light verbs. They are joined by give, do, commit and take as more fre-
quently used verbs, and further examples are found with exercise (5), put (5), hold
(4), use (4), fight (3), levy (3), practice (3), receive (3) and work (3). Execute, get,
grant, keep, minister and perform have 2 attestations each, bring, break, come, draw,
gain, lead, obtain, offer, perpetrate, serve, set, stand, undertake and yield have one
attestation each in the corpus.
The data in Table 7 shows that in comparison with the Middle English sample,
the frequencies of light verb constructions are lower in the Early Modern sample
texts. The data displays a large diversification in light verbs. At the same time, the
five most prominent light verbs are already those generally observed in Modern
English. Commit has an equally high token frequency as take. This however, may
	 Patricia Ronan
Table 6.  Early Modern English corpus texts.
Text Words Genre Period Light verb frequencies/
100,000
Statutes IV 11 795 Legal 1588–1604 678
Merry Wives of
Windsor – Shakespeare
  6245 Comedy
– rhyming
1597–1623 464
A chaste maid in
Cheapside, Middleton
  5708 Comedy
– non-rhyming
1630 210
History of Britain
Milton
  6002 History 1670 450
On the folly of scoffing
at religion Tillotsen
  6702 Sermon 1671 433
New account of East
India and Persia Fryer
  5438 Travelouge 1698 221
Reign of Charles II
Burnet
  5280 History 1703 704
Beaux Strategem
Farquhar
  5704 Drama 1707 245
Total EModE 52874 463
Table 7.  Light verbs in the Early Modern sample.
Verb Types Tokens Token f/100.000
Have   42   58 110
Make   39   52   98
Give   25   25   47
Do   18   20   39
Take   11   16   30
Commit    3   16   30
Exercise    4    5    9
Put    3    5    9
Hold    4    4    8
Use    4    4    8
Others   37   41   78
Total counts 186 245 463
be document specific as the high counts are mainly based on the high type fre-
quencies of commit offence in the Statutes IV (13 tokens).
In the restricted sample corpus, only a small number of light verb types are
found repeatedly, and repetition is predictably most prominent in light verbs of
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
high frequency. Do and give largely have single attestations with their predicate
nouns (excepting do evil, felony and evil at 2 tokens each). The light verbs have,
make and take, on the other hand, show a higher number of multiple attestations.
This holds for have power, have regard, have authority, have faculty, and for have
charme, confidence, means, need and opportunity. Make is found with multiple in-
stances of use, discovery, statute, claim, peace, proof, provision and rates. Take is
found in the collocations take heed, leave, care and distress. The latter is used in the
sense of ‘detention’ in the Statutes, and is paralleled by a simple verb from 1490 on
(OED sv distress n II). The following samples illustrate the Early Modern English
usage in the data sample:
	 (22)	 He had a faculty of speaking indefatigably upon every subject
		 (Burnet, Reign 228–9)
	 (23)	 ... of whose Treason, the King having now made use as much as serv’d his
turn (Milton, 425–7)
	 (24)	 ... and the surplusage or remainder over and above to be delivered to the
partie of whome the distresse was taken (Statutes IV 450–1)
The question has previously been raised, whether the presence of a definite article
in the context of a predicate noun of a light verb means that the collocation cannot
be considered a light verb construction. Particularly for earlier stages of the English
language, this is contradicted by researchers who point out that the article system
was less fixed at earlier stages of English (e.g. Matsumoto 2008: 84 for Middle
English). Wierzbicka (1982: 758) finds the presence of an indefinite article to be
most typical in Present Day English, and she identifies it as semantically singular-
izing and delimiting. If we are prepared to admit indefinite articles in collocations
like to take a decision or to have a think, some situations may also call for the use
of the definite article, especially where previously mentioned light verb construc-
tions are referred to, e.g. have you taken the decision we are waiting for? These two
factors, less fixed state of articles especially in pre-Early Modern English, and con-
textual anchoring of definiteness, suggest that light verb constructions with defi-
nite articles should not be dismissed.
In the corpus material from this period it is noteworthy that as indicated above
there is considerable variety in the light verbs used, such as
	 (25)	 And if any Weaver shall use any Deceipte in mynglinge his Yearne
		 (Statutes IV 348)
	 (26)	 when I absolutely renounce their Authority, I do yield a most perfect sub-
mission and obedience to it (Tillotson, 444–5)
	 (27)	 Therefore when we undertake this Journy (Fryer, 347–8)
	 Patricia Ronan
This large variety of different light verbs may in part be influenced by the presence
of large groups of morphologically differing eventive nouns that have become
available at the beginning of the Early Modern period. On the other hand, the fact
that denominal verbs could also be formed to a larger extent may have meant that
it was often not necessary to use a light verb construction anymore because a sim-
plex had become available. This latter possibility may cause frequency decreases in
light verb constructions in the Early Modern English period.
Overall, in the corpus material especially high frequencies are found in the
examples of legal language, a mid-position is taken by rhyming drama, historical
and religious writing, the lowest frequencies are presented in the more casual
speech genres of non-rhyming drama and travelogue. Burnet’s Reign of Charles II
seems an unexpected outlier (704 examples per 100,000 words). Even the Stat-
utes IV, earlier than Burnet, have fewer examples (678 per 100,000)3. It is note-
worthy that the average frequency is lower in the Early Modern English data
compared to the Middle English data, even in examples of identical genres such
as statutes.
5.	 Discussion
The corpus material indicates that attestations of light verb constructions rose over
time. The rise of frequency was not steady, however. We can observe an increase of
light verb constructions, both in terms of frequencies and attested structures in the
Middle English data as compared to the Old English data. This rise in frequency
from Old to Middle English is not exorbitant: the constructions are about two
times more frequent in the Middle English data than in the Old English data. The
differences in frequencies of support verb constructions between Old-, Middle-
and Early Modern English corpus texts is statistically highly significant at a sig-
nificance level of p < 0.0001%.
This rise is clear, but it does not seem a sufficient basis for claiming that the
constructions were badly attested in Old English. The overall distribution of light
verb constructions in the corpus material is plotted in Graph 1.
The graph illustrates a rise from Old English to Middle English, which is fol-
lowed by a fall in the Early Modern English corpus data. For the rise in Middle
English frequencies, a number of possible reasons may be found. One important
reason for using light verb constructions is to augment the lexicon. Augmentation
may prove necessary or desirable because a simple expression did not exist at the
3.	 The difference between Burnet’s Reign of Charles II and the other EModE texts is statisti-
cally significant at a significance level of 0.04% according to the chi-square test.
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
0
O
h
t
h
e
r
e
B
e
d
e
I
C
h
r
o
n
A
B
e
o
w
u
l
f
C
h
a
u
c
e
r
K
e
m
p
e
S
t
a
t
u
t
e
s
I
I
S
t
a
t
u
t
e
s
I
V
M
e
r
r
y
W
i
v
e
s
C
h
a
s
t
e
M
a
i
d
M
i
l
t
o
n
H
i
s
t
o
r
y
T
i
l
l
o
t
s
e
n
S
e
r
m
o
n
F
r
y
e
r
P
e
r
s
i
a
B
u
r
n
e
t
R
e
i
g
n
F
a
r
q
u
h
a
r
B
e
a
u
x
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Graph 1.  Frequencies of light verb constructions per 100,000 words in the corpus texts.
time, for example where technical innovations are concerned, or where concepts
are loaned from other languages. Particularly in cases of loaned verbs from other
languages, these often are loaned as agent nouns first, and used with a light verb,
particularly do, before they are fully integrated into the language as inflected verbs.
This is due to the fact that nouns are more easily borrowed from other languages
than verbs (cf. Matras 2008: 172). An example of this is I, that wende and hadde a
great opinioun... ‘I supposed and had a great notion’ (Chaucer, Knight’s Tale, 1268).
Opinion is a loan from French or late Latin, the verb opinion also comes to be used
in English, but only after Chaucer’s time (cf. Ronan 2012b). In this respect, light
verb construction may be seen as a language contact phenomenon, and it has been
argued that they are frequently found in contexts of second language acquisition
(Poussa 1990; Rissanen 1991: 333–35; Danchev 1992: 30). As language contact
was very strong particularly in the Middle English period, high frequencies of
light verb constructions would not have been unexpected at this time.
In addition to language contact phenomena playing a role, it has been sug-
gested that the decrease in morphological affixation may have favoured the use of
analytic structures and thus of light verb constructions (Hiltunen 1983). Since
growing analyticisation was particularly observable in the Middle English period,
this would also favour the use of light verb constructions in Middle English. In
this context, the increasing fixation of the word order of English may also have
favoured analytic expressions that allow syntactic and pragmatic modification of
the sentence structure.
A further point that has not been examined in this study, but that would offer
interesting insights into the use of light verb constructions, is the question of how
the spread of literacy during the Middle and particularly Early Modern periods
	 Patricia Ronan
may have influenced the use of light verb constructions. That the sociolinguistic
context may have played a role is possible, given that Nurmi (1999) identified par-
ticularly do periphrasis as a feature that is prominent in the language of speakers
of lower social classes. There is some suggestion that education may have an influ-
ence in the fact that the data from The Book of Margery Kempe, who was herself
illiterate and uneducated and had a local clergyman write for her, shows a high
frequency of light verb constructions, particularly with the light verb have.
It is also interesting to note that the data from the Early Modern texts in the
corpus do not indicate a further rise in the frequencies of light verb constructions
after the Middle English period, except for the outlier of Burnet’s Reign of King
Charles. On the one hand, this may be due to data selection and only a consider-
ably larger data sample from each period of English can prove the frequency
changes. On the other hand, Danchev (1992) has argued that during English lan-
guage history, periods of decreased language contact have always resulted in a
more synthetic language structure. For the Early Modern English period it can
probably be argued that there was comparatively less language contact than during
the Middle English period, which could have meant an increasing syntheticity of
the verbal paradigm not only in terms of Latinate prefixes, but also in terms of a
reduced incentive to use light verb construction.
6.	 Conclusion
This investigation of light verb constructions shows differences from previous
corpus-based surveys which predominantly investigated the distribution of high-
frequency light verb constructions, which were partly selected on the basis of fre-
quencies of light verbs in Present Day English.
When using identical selection criteria for light verb constructions, we find
that the frequencies of attestations rise considerably in the later Middle English
period as compared to Old English. The overall frequencies in the Middle
English data are in fact the highest in the corpus material, after the late Middle
English period, a slight drop in frequencies is observable in the Early Modern
English corpus texts. In contrast to earlier studies the corpus material suggests,
however, that the frequencies of light verb constructions in Old English are not
insignificant or negligible as the frequencies amount to more than 1/3 of the high
Middle English frequencies, or in other words, the Middle English frequencies are
almost 200% higher than the frequencies of the Old English corpus data. The mis-
apprehension that there were hardly any light verb constructions in Old English at
least partly seems to arise from the practice of investigating predominantly those
light verbs which are still frequent in Present Day English. The most frequent
	 Light verb constructions in the history of English	 
Present Day English light verbs are already well represented in the Middle English
corpus data, but in Old English there is only a partial overlap with Present Day
English verbs, which means that a large percentage of Old English structures is
overlooked in that approach. The present study has also asked the question of why
the numbers of attestation may be the highest in Middle English corpus data and
it is suggested that language contact may have played an important role in the
increase in frequency. However, this assumption, as well as the observed frequen-
cies, should be tested on considerably larger corpora comprising more varied cor-
pus texts and genres.
References
Akimoto, M. & Brinton, L. 1999. The origin of the composite predicate in Old English. In Col-
locational and Idiomatic Aspects of Composite Predicates in the History of English, Brinton &
Akimoto (eds), 21–58.
Algeo, J. 1995. Having a look at the expanded predicate. In The Verb in Contemporary English.
Theory and Description, B. Aarts & C.F. Meyer (eds), 203–217. Cambridge: CUP.
Allerton, D. 2002. Stretched Verb Constructions in English. London: Routledge.
Brinton, L. 1996. Attitudes to increasing segmentalization. Complex and phrasal verbs in Eng-
lish. Journal of English Linguistics 24: 186–205.
Brinton, L. & M. Akimoto. (eds). 1999. Collocational and Idiomatic Aspects of Composite Predi-
cates in the History of English. [Studies in Language Companion Series 47]. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Claridge, C. 2000. Multi-word Verbs in Early Modern English. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Danchev, A. 1992. The evidence for analytic and synthetic developments in English. In History
of Englishes: New Methods and Interpretations in Historical Linguistics, M. Rissanen, O. Ih-
alainen, T. Nevalainen & I. Taavitsainen (eds), 25–41. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Denison, D. 1981. Aspects of the History of English Group-Verbs: With particular Attention to
the Syntax of the Ormulum. PhD dissertation, University of Oxford.
diPaulo Healy, A., D. Haines, J. Holland, D. McDougall, I. McDougall & X. Xiang (eds). 2004.
The Dictionary of Old English Corpus in Electronic Form. TEI-P3 conformant and TEI-P4
conformant version. Toronto: DOE Project.
eChaucer: NeCastro, G. 2007. eChaucer.<http://www.umm.maine.edu/faculty/necastro/chau-
cer/> (29 May 2012)
Goldberg, A. & Jackendoff, R. 2004. The English resultative as a family of constructions. Lan-
guage 80: 532–568.
Hiltunen, R. 1983. The Decline of the Prefixes and the Beginnings of the English Phrasal Verb [An-
nales Universitatis Turkuensis Series B, Vol. 160]. Turku: University of Turku Press.
Hiltunen, R. 1999. Verbal phrases in Early Modern English. In Collocational and Idiomatic As-
pects of Composite Predicates in the History of English, Brinton & Akimoto (eds), 133–166.
Hock, H.H. & Joseph, B. 1996. Language History, Language Change, and Language Relationship:
An Introduction to Historical and Comparative Linguistics. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
	 Patricia Ronan
Hoffmann, A. 1972. Die verbo-nominal Konstruktion – eine spezifische Form der nominalen
Ausdrucksweise im modernen Englisch. Zeitschrift für Anglistik und Amerikanistik 20:
158–183.
Kytö, M. (ed.) [1991]1996. Manual to the Diachronic Part of the Helsinki Corpus of English Texts.
Coding Conventions and Lists of Source Texts, 3rd edn. Helsinki: Department of English,
University of Helsinki.
Kytö, M. 1999. Collocational and idiomatic aspects of verbs in Early Modern English. In Collo-
cational and Idiomatic Aspects of Composite Predicates in the History of English, Brinton &
Akimoto (eds), 167–206.
Matsumoto, M. 1999. Composite predicates in Middle English. In Collocational and Idiomatic
Aspects of Composite Predicates in the History of English, Brinton & Akimoto (eds), 59–96.
Matsumoto, M. 2008. From Simple Verbs to Periphrastic Expressions. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Nickel, G.1968. Complex verbal structures in English. IRAL - International Review of Applied
Linguistics in Language Teaching 6: 1-21.
Nurmi, A. 1999. A Social History of Periphrastic DO. Helsinki: Société Néophilologique.
Orchard, A. 2003. A Critical Companion to Bēowulf. Cambridge: D.S. Brewer.
Poussa, P. 1990. A contact-universals origin for periphrastic do, with special consideration of
OE-Celtic contact. In Papers from the 5th Internatioanl Conference on English Historical
Linguistics [Current Issues in Linguistic Theory 65], S. Adamson, V. A. Law, N. Vincent &
S. Wright (eds), 407–434. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G. and Svartvik, J. 1985. A Comprehensive Grammar of the
English Language. London: Longman.
Rissanen, M. 1991. Spoken language and the history of do-periphrasis. In Historical English
Syntax, D. Kastovsky (ed.), 321–342. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Ronan, P. 2012a. Make peace and take victory. Support Verb Constructions in Old English in
Comparison with Old Irish. NOWELE Supplement Series 24. Odense: University of South-
ern Denmark Press.
Ronan, P. 2012b. Mobilizing linguistic concepts: support verb structures in Early English. In
English on the move: Mobilities in literature and language [SPELL 27], D. Britain & A. Kern-
Staehler (eds), 183–99. Tübingen: Narr.
Tanabe, H. 1999. Composite predicates and phrasal verbs in the Paston Letters. In Collocational
and Idiomatic Aspects of Composite Predicates in the History of English, Brinton & Akimoto
(eds), 97–132.
Tieken Boon van Ostade, I. 1990. The origin and development of periphrastic auxiliary do: A case
of destigmatisation. North-Western European Language Evolution (NOWELE): 16: 3–52.
Traugott, E.C. 1999. A historical overview of complex predicate types. In Collocational and Idi-
omatic Aspects of Composite Predicates in the History of English, Brinton & Akimoto (eds),
239–260.
Wierzbicka, A. 1982. Why can you have a drink when you can’t *have an eat? Language 58:
753–99.
What happened to the English prefix,
and could it stage a comeback?
Stefan Diemer
Saarland University, Germany
This paper revisits the historical shift in English verb-particle combinations
from prefixed to prepositional and adverbial forms based on qualitative and
quantitative examples from the Helsinki and Wycliffe corpora collected during
a study on the history of verb-particle combinations (Diemer 2008). It is argued
that the reasons for the disappearance of the English prefix are more complex
than previously thought. The paper proposes a combination of competition-
based and systemic reasons while allowing for additional influence by other
developments, such as verb frequency and spelling habits. Excerpts from corpus-
based studies (Diemer 2009, 2013) show that the development is not irreversible,
since due to the influence of computer-mediated communication there may be a
revival of prefix verbs modelled after Old English templates.
Keywords: verb-particle combinations, prefix, computer-mediated
communication
1.	 The prefix then and now
The Old English (OE) prefixed verb was definitely a success story, as its considerable
share of total verb-particle combinations shows. Due to its elaborate affix system,
the late Old English verb system was of high syntactical and functional complexity.
More than thirty highly productive prefixes existed, accounting for up to a quarter
of all verb-particle combinations (as quantified in Diemer 2008). These verb forms
exhibited literal, but also figurative meanings and could thus perform all functions
of present-day English phrasal verbs. Examples (1) and (2) show these different
functions for the Old English verbs ingan (to go in) and ondrædan (to fear).
	 (1)	 þæs huses þær seo fæmne ineode
		 ‘The houses in which the maid went’
		 (Anonymous, Martyrology, Helsinki Corpus 1399 OE2)
	 Stefan Diemer
	 (2)	 Sume seoce synd swa dysige, þæt hy ondrædað him
		 ‘Some sick are so ignorant that they dread him’
		 (Aelfric, First and Second Letter, Helsinki Corpus 36 OE3)
However, a thousand years later the language has changed fundamentally. Present-
day English only retains a very small percentage of productive prefixes, accounting
for less than 3 percent of all verb-particle combinations (Diemer 2008), which to-
day are mostly adverbial and prepositional constructions. Why did a combination
that is still popular in other Germanic languages to this day disappear rather sud-
denly? This article will investigate the reason for this drastic shift and describe
possible factors that prompted it.
2.	 Particles and their variation in early English
The term “prefix” describes a morphological category from a structural perspec-
tive. Although it has been criticized and avoided by researchers such as Adams
(2001) or Plag (2003), mainly because of its lack of semantic precision, it is pre-
ferred here because it has two significant advantages: it can easily be found and
quantified in a diachronic text corpus, and it can be compared to other morpho-
syntactic categories such as prepositional and adverbial verbal compounds. In de-
fining prefixes this article follows Hans Marchand, who describes prefixes as
“bound morphemes preposed to free morphemes” (Marchand 1969: 129). In or-
der to perform this investigation, it is necessary to distinguish two types of pre-
fixes: (1) non-lexical and (2) lexical prefixes.
(1) Non-lexical prefixes: Originally, all bound morphemes probably were de-
tachable, functioning as prepositions or adverbs, but already in OE there are many
that were fully integrated and could not stand on their own, like a-, be- etc.
Hiltunen (1983: 47) pays special attention to them and concludes that these would
be particularly vulnerable to changes in syntax since they could not move. Lexi-
cally these were replaced by analytical structures, while stylistically they became
integrated with the verb meaning. From a research perspective, these prefixes, by
eliminating syntactic factors, are certainly useful in examining lexical and seman-
tic factors that contributed to their decline. However, because of this, they also do
not allow the quantitative comparison to other morphosyntactic categories. There-
fore, this article does not include them.
(2) Lexical prefixes: Much more illuminating from a morphosyntactic point of
view is the fate of those prefixes that can still function as adverbs or prepositions,
such as over-, under-, with-, since their movement assumedly is not restricted by
grammatical factors. It is these prefixes that are the focus of attention here; this
article will use the term “lexical prefixes” for them, although some researchers
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
such as de la Cruz (1975) use the unfortunate term “separable prefixes”. Marchand
(1969: 109) remarks that of those remaining lexeme prefixes, only out-, over- and
under- are still productive (apart from remnant forms), excluding, for the most
part, verbs with up- (identified as Latin translations or analogues), back- and off-
(categorized as conversions or back-formations). Lexical prefixes are used as the
basis for this study, since they can exhibit all types of variation.
Marchand’s definition of “bound” also needs to be further differentiated, since
there are various possible degrees of connection between the two morphemes,
particularly in Middle English. A verbal prefix can be
1.	 joined to the verb (examples 3.1., 3.4 and 3.5)
2.	 hyphenated (example 3.2.)
3.	 separated (example 3.3)
Prefixes are thus, even on a purely morphosyntactic level, not as straightforward
to distinguish as it may seem. A prefix is, in fact, a rather elusive form, which may
explain why it is treated so differently in the various corpora. Old and Middle
English prefixes could, to provide one salient example, still separate from their
respective verbs, whether they were, strictly speaking, lexemes or not. This separa-
tion could manifest itself in several ways: Particles could attach to the verb, be
hyphenated, stand separately in front of it and “take a stroll”, as it were, exhibiting
varying degrees of removal from the main verb. Thus, the phrase He went into that
temple could be realized in various ways in Old English (and most of the Middle
English period), as example (3) shows.
	 (3)	 “He went into that temple”
		 Prefixation options in OE
		 a.	 He ineode þæt templ
		 b.	 He in-eode þæt templ
		 c.	 He in eode þæt templ
		 d.	 He ineode in þæt templ
		 e.	 He ineode on þæt templ
		 Other possible constructions in OE
		 d.	 He eode in þæt templ
		 f.	 He eode þæt templ in
	 	 g.	 Eode he þæt templ in
The morphosyntactic flexibility of the particle needs to be taken into account by
creating at least one intermediate category which I propose to call “separate pre-
fixes”. It is, as its diachronic share of total verb-particle combinations will show, a
classical intermediate category. This distinction still does not adequately reflect
the many shades of remoteness actually found in manuscripts. “Taking a stroll”
	 Stefan Diemer
seems quite a fanciful phrase, but it is not used figuratively: in the underlying
manuscripts, distance becomes indeed a variable, with particles and articles at-
taching to and detaching from their respective partners. Examples (4) to (8) illus-
trate this variability. The illustrations are from Wycliffite texts written around 1380
AD, thus from the (for prefixation late) period Middle English 3 (ME3, as per the
Helsinki Corpus designation). The by far largest share of prefixed verbs follow es-
tablished prefix patterns, as shown in example (4) with the verb forsake, the same
usage as in Present-day English.
	 (4)	 forsake
		
		 A man schal forsake fader [...]
		 ‘A man shall forsake father [...]’ (MS Bodley 296 1v, detail)
Example (5) shows the prefixed verb totake, in which the prefix to is written in a
slightly different font and at about half the usual distance between words.
	 (5)	 totake
		
		 totake marie þi wyf [...]
		 ‘to take Mary your wife [...]’ (MS Junius 29 13v, detail)
Example (6) shows the non-lexical prefix a- separated from -shamed, creating a
rather unusual group of two non-lexical morphemes forming one discontinuous
lexeme.
	 (6)	 a schamed
		
		 and þei weren not a schamed [...]
		 ‘and they were not ashamed [...]’ (MS Bodley 296 1v, detail)
Example (7) illustrates that even articles could be prefixed, raising the question of
whether a morphosyntactic analysis of article prefixation in Middle English could
produce qualitative differences between different types of articles.
	 (7)	 þeday
		
		 “þei were before to þeday [...]”
		 ‘they were before to the day [...]’ (MS Douce 370 5v detail)
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
Example (8) shows the preposition into written as two separate particles.
	 (8)	 clepe in to (PDE: call sb.)
		
		 god: clepe in to adam [...]
		 ‘God called Adam [...]’ (MS Douce 370 6r detail)
These manuscripts also illustrate the advantage of a hand-written text: if a scribe
was not sure whether to separate the particle or not, he could muddle the waters
and semi-separate it, as example (9) shows with two different versions of into.
	 (9)	 in to
		
		 (MS Laud misc 361, lv, and MS Bodley 665, 13v, details)
Diachronic corpora (such as the Helsinki Corpus), for the most part, do not dis-
tinguish these forms; if the data is tagged, these stages of removal are not uni-
formly categorized. In view of these taxonomic problems it is not surprising that
most research on the morphosyntactic category of prefixes has been qualitative or
based on small quantitative samples, which may explain the wide range of answers
to the question why the prefix disappeared. It is not easy to discuss the disappear-
ance of the prefix on a global scale, as various prefixes may behave differently.
Furthermore, a quantitative analysis is difficult for the reasons mentioned above.
3.	 The decline of the prefix: Theories
Broadly speaking, three different hypotheses are proposed to explain the decline of
the prefix:
1.	 lexical change and competition
2.	 syntactical change
3.	 semantic change
	 Stefan Diemer
In addition, there are several theories that include combinations of these factors.
The various explanations are briefly summarized below.
Reason 1: Lexical change and competition: Most existing explanations for
the decline of the prefixes in English are based on individual examples rather
than quantitative corpus data. Kennedy (1920) argues that lexical reasons led to
the prefix first separating from the verb and then being used as adverbial or
prepositional particle from early Middle English. He thus focuses on the rise of
the phrasal verb as a competitor that manages to almost completely replace
the prefixed forms. This structural explanation certainly explains the rise in
prepositional and adverbial constructions that can be shown by looking at quan-
titative data. According to this theory, the prefix can be assumed to go through
three stages:
Stage 1: Prefix separates from the verb: ingan > in(-/_)gan
Stage 2: 
Particle assumes additional prepositional and adverbial function: in(-/_)
gan > (in)gan in
Stage 3: 
Prefix is replaced by phrasal verb and stress shifts to the postpositional
particle: (in)gan in > gan in
Reason 2: Syntactical change: Curme (1914) proposes the weakening of Old
English functional syntax during the transition to Middle English as a reason for
this development, focusing on system-dependency. In particular, he argues that
the position before the verb may have been weakened in the context of the transi-
tion to a SVO word order, leading to multiple ambiguous possible forms that could
occupy this prime bit of real estate and prompting both use of simplex verbs and
the transfer of particles to a postverbal position, unless the verb was already lexi-
calized when this weakening occurred (like upset).
Stage 1: Weakening of OE functional syntax
Stage 2: 
Pre-position disadvantaged by transition to SVO order (ambiguity),
stressed particles move first
Stage 3: 
Prefix is replaced by simplex verbs or moved to post-position, non-lexical
prefixes disappear: a- > nothing, as in asettan > settan, lexical prefixes
move to a postverbal position: ingan > gan in
The two positions have been elaborated and variously supported by later studies:
Kiffer (1965) sides with Curme in favouring the syntactic shift explanation, while
de la Cruz (1975), Mitchell (1978) and Hiltunen (1983) propose a combination of
both lexical and syntactic factors and include some arguments for semantic fac-
tors. Semantic reasons are also the focus of the third theory.
Reason 3: Semantic change: Brinton (1988) finds lexical reasons, but argues
for a more complex process of metonymic shift in meaning. Parallel semantic
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
processes of lexicalization and grammaticalization of particle and verb result in
a preference of prepositional and, for metaphorical meanings, phrasal verbs.
This is seen as valid for most lexical particles. In addition, Brinton & Traugott
(2005) consider what they (unfortunately, given Middle English scribal flexibil-
ity) call “inseparable” prefixes to be “the result of lexicalization processes” of
comparatively few remaining particles (Brinton & Traugott 2005: 129). This con-
vincing semantic explanation has become the standard approach in the recent
literature, and there are numerous studies that combine semantic with morpho-
logical factors, most recently Los, Blom et al. (2012). The semantic change expla-
nation makes a qualitative approach feasible, but it disregards the quantitative
aspect of the diachronic development of morphosyntactic categories and may
thus overemphasize the importance of semantic factors. In this context, the
quantitative perspective that is proposed in this article might help to relativize
the relative importance of syntactic, lexical and semantic factors. It should be
stressed, however, that all the factors discussed above can be investigated in a
qualitative study.
4.	 The decline of the prefix: Quantitative evidence
All studies agree that the “loss of the prefixes”, as Hiltunen (1983) calls it, hap-
pened, for the most part, during the late Old English and early Middle English
periods. By a process of elimination, as it were, this can easily be supported quan-
titatively. A recent extensive study (Diemer 2008) examined the quantitative
shares of various categories of 31 selected particles and the verbs with which they
combine and which are listed in Table 1. The relevant results are briefly summa-
rized here.
For the study, the verb-particle combinations (VPC) were divided according
to morphological-syntactic criteria into four categories, of which two were prefix
categories. Non-prefixed particles were divided according to their adverbial or
prepositional function in order to obtain a quantitative picture of diachronic mor-
phological and syntactic developments, as described in Table 2.
Table 1.  Particles examined in Diemer (2008).
Particles after, against, along, among, around, aside, at, away, before (afore), below, beneath,
between (betwixt), by, down (adown), fore, from, fromwards, in (into, innan), in-
wards, off, on (onufan), out (outward, out of, without), over, towards, through, up,
upon (up on), upward, under, within, without
	 Stefan Diemer
Table 2.  Categories of verb-particle combinations in Diemer (2008).
Categories Description Abbreviation
Prefixes Pre-positioned particles that are attached to the verb Px
Separate prefixes Prefixed particles that are positioned immediately in front
of, but separate from, the verb
Pxs
Prepositional
verbs
Verbs used with one or more prepositional particles Pv
Adverbial verbs Verbs used with one or more adverbial particles Av
Several meaning-based categories of particles were then examined to illustrate
semantic factors in the development of the prefix: concrete and metaphorical
meanings were distinguished, as well as some special categories such as redundant
particle use which combines a prefix and the same particle in post-position (such
as ætspearn æt, infaran in, intyndan in) and combinations of more than one post-
positioned particle (go awei from, come forth away into). The main diachronic
database for the periods up to (and including) Early Modern English was the
Helsinki Corpus. Despite its relatively small sample size and its limited overall size
of just 1.5m words it is ideally suited to this type of analysis because of the high
frequency of the constructions in question, which makes the results statistically
relevant. For comparison with present-day English, the LOB and FLOB corpora
were used. In addition to this limited database, the 5 million word Wycliffe Corpus
compiled by Diemer (see Diemer 2008) was available as a basis for comparison for
the crucial period between 1350 and 1420 (ME3 in the Helsinki Corpus). The
Wycliffe corpus was compiled in the context of an earlier historical study on spell-
ing standardization (Diemer 1998). Unfortunately, it is not yet freely available due
to copyright restrictions, but it confirms the percentages given in the respective
Helsinki section. Its composition is described in Table 3.
After categorization, the four particle groups described in table (2) were then
quantified for each of the periods established for the Helsinki Corpus, which for
convenience’s sake are summarized in Table 4.
Table 3.  Composition of Wycliffe Corpus (Diemer 1998).
Corpus share Words Source
14,59% 768 374 MSS. Bodley 959/Christ Church 145, as transcribed by Lindberg
(1959–73).
37,42% 1 970 107 The Wycliffe Bible in several MSS as edited by Forshall and
Madden (1850).
47,99% 2 526 751 Lollard texts by various compilers, e.g. Hudson
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
Table 4.  Diachronic periods in the XML Helsinki Corpus (2011).
OE1 OE2 OE3 OE4 ME1 ME2 ME3 ME4 EModE1 EModE1 EModE1
-850 850–
950
950–
1050
1050–
1150
1150–
1250
1250–
1350
1350–
1420
1420–
1500
1500–
1570
1570–
1640
1640–
1710
The quantitative study conclusively illustrates the decline of the prefixes while
quantifying the increase in the two main competing categories. It also provides
interesting information regarding the total share of verb-particle combinations
as per word total. This is useful to establish a base frequency, which is shown in
Tables 5 and 6.
There are three deviations from the average, in OE1, in OE3 and in ME1. The
low number of verbs in OE1 is, in all probability, due to the very small sample size
of texts before 850 AD and will be disregarded here. As will be shown, the increase
in OE3 is due to the creation of new verbs from loan translations and their co-ex-
istence with established forms. The highest share of verb-particle combinations is
reached in ME1, during the crucial transition period between 1150 and 1250,
which may reflect increased verb productivity in the absence of as literary standard
and under the influence of Norman French. In general, the overall variation in the
share of verb-particle combinations in relation to the total word count of the
Table 5.  Number of verb-particle combinations in the Helsinki Corpus (Diemer 2008).
VPC OE1 OE2 OE3 OE4 ME1 ME2 ME3 ME4 EModE1 EModE2 EModE3 All
Total 80 4881 12861 3294 4737 4542 8954 9811 8539 8690 8549 74938
Table 6.  Share of verb-particle combinations in the Helsinki and Wycliffe Corpora.
3.65%
4.49%
5.11% 4.89%
5.35%
4.43%
4.86%
4.59% 4.49% 4.56%
5.00%
0.00%
O
E
1
O
E
2
O
E
3
O
E
4
M
E
1
M
E
2
M
E
3
M
E
4
E
M
o
d
E
1
E
M
o
d
E
2
E
M
o
d
E
3
1.00%
2.00%
3.00%
4.00%
5.00%
6.00%
	 Stefan Diemer
various sections (again with the exception of the early data before 850 AD) is within
one percentage point. This relative stability in the number of verb-particle combina-
tions allows the conclusion that relative shifts in morphosyntactic categories mainly
happen within the system and do not (at least not in a systematic way) indicate a
migration to other categories beyond the scope of the study, such as simplex verbs. It
should be pointed out again, though, that this study excludes verb-particle combina-
tions with non-lexical prefixes. As already indicated, in this category there is, indeed,
a shift from verb-particle combinations to simplex verbs (and thus out of the sys-
tem), but it is mainly limited to those immobile prefixed particles. A differentiation
according to the four examined morphosyntactic categories delivers clear results.
Tables 7 and 8 show the distribution of the categories in relation to each other.
Table 6.  Share of verb-particle combinations according to morphosyntactic category
in the Helsinki and Wycliffe Corpora (in percentage).
HC OE1 OE2 OE3 OE4 ME1 ME2 ME3 ME4 EModE1 EModE2 EModE3 Total
Px 18.75 20.35 16.66   9.86 20.89 10.02 6.31 4.09   2.39   4.23   3.37 8.99
Pxs 0   1.62   2.47 2.7   2.35 1.1 0.49 0.7   0.37   0.28   0.25   1.12
Pv 63.75 72.30 76.71 81.91 65.07 75.54 82.2 85.88 83.41 80.64 81.3 79.44
Av 17.5   5.73   4.15   5.54 11.69 13.34 10.99   9.32 13.83 14.86 15.08 10.45
Table 7.  Visualized diachronic development of verb-particle combinations according
to morphosyntactic category in the Helsinki and Wycliffe Corpora.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
O
E
1
O
E
2
O
E
3
O
E
4
M
E
1
M
E
2
M
E
3
M
E
4
E
M
o
d
E
1
E
M
o
d
E
2
E
M
o
d
E
3
Px
Pxs
Pv
Av
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
Table 8.  Relative share of verb-particle combination categories in OE2 and EModE3.
Px 20%
Pxs 2%
Pv 72%
Av 6%
OE2
Px 4%
Pxs 0%
Pv 81%
Av 15%
EModE3
The prepositional use of the 31 examined particles remains most frequent through-
out, with an increase until OE4 and a sharp decrease in ME1, before settling at
around 80% for later periods. After a high percentage in texts before 850, adver-
bial particle use remains at around 5% in OE, doubles in ME1 and increases again
to ca. 15% in Early Modern (and Modern) English. Most importantly, the share of
prefix verbs drops during OE, accompanied by the increasing formation of sepa-
rable prefixes. This trend is briefly reversed in ME1, where the prefixation reaches
its highest share of total VPCs with over 20%. After that the share of prefix verbs
decreases to around 4% (about the average value in Present-day English corpora).
Table 9 contrasts the situation in Old English with that in Early Modern English
and illustrates the fundamental shift in morphosyntactic structure. It should be
pointed out that these charts only represent the quantitative development of
selected VPC with 31 particles, excluding, in particular, non-lexical prefixes. How-
ever, the results are statistically relevant and important in the context of establish-
ing a pattern for morphosyntactic change.
5.	 The decline of the prefix: Interpretation
The quantitative diachronic data indicates what happened to the prefix, although
it does not give direct reasons. It is interesting to note the behaviour of the vari-
ous categories. The relative decline of prefixes starts in late Old English, is inter-
rupted by the transition to Middle English and continues until ME4. The decline
is accompanied by an increased share of separable prefixes, which reach their
highest percentage in OE4 and ME1. They could function as a transitional cate-
gory in allowing a gradual separation of the particle and then a move away from
the prefixed position and a shift in function to prepositional or adverbial use. This
is supported by the finding that of the two alternative templates available, prepo-
sitional constructions take up the greatest share of previously prefixed verbs,
	 Stefan Diemer
while replacements by adverbial constructions increase only in EModE, indicat-
ing that adverbial verbs do not directly replace prefix verbs, but prepositional
constructions.
The overall decline of prefixed forms can be seen with almost all examined
particles. In the context of this article, in and on, the two most frequent particles,
will be used to illustrate this point. The verbal particle in occurs 23,831 times in
the Helsinki Corpus, the particle on 15,565 times. As full lexical items, both par-
ticles can shift position and function freely and thus should reflect some morpho-
syntactic changes. In order to illustrate the shift, examples (10) to (13) provide
selected instances of the various particle use with in.
	 (10)	 prefix use of in
		 monige sindun þa þe ingan þurh þære (multi sunt qui intrant per eam)
		 ‘there are many who enter through there’
		 (Farman, Rushworth Gospels, HC 797 (OE3))
	 (11)	 separable prefix use of in
		 hi ne dorston ut faran ne in faran for him
		 ‘they didn’t dare to go our or in for him’
		 (Aelfric, Old Testament, HC 1191 (OE3))
	 (12)	 reduplication of in
		 sweord heara ingaeð in heortan heara (Gladius eorum intret in cor ipso-
rum)
		 ‘their sword enters their heart’
		 (Anonymous, The Vespasian Psalter, HC 1949 (OE2))
	 (13)	 move & redundance
		 þæt hy hit gebrohton burgum in innan
		 ‘that they brought it into the castle’ (Cynewulf, Juliana, HC 549 (OE3))
Tables 10 and 11 show the development of the particle in in the Helsinki
and Wycliffe Corpora, while Tables 12 and 13 show the development of the
particle on.
In keeping with the general trend, both particles show a gradual decline in
their prefixed use from Old English until ME1, after which the prefixed use is al-
most non-existent. Moreover, with in, there is a distinct shift from attached to
separate prefixation, often with a reduplicative use, before both prefixed forms
disappear and are either replaced by prepositional or adverbial particles or re-
duced to simplex verbs. This illustrates again the main results of the study, namely
a gradual decline of prefixes, a separation from the verb and a subsequent move to
a post-verbal position. Thus, the “death” of the prefix happens in several stages
(with, of course, large individual differences).
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
Table 9.  Morphosyntactic categories of VPC with the particle in in the Helsinki
and Wycliffe Corpora (in percentages).
Period Av Pv Pxs Px
OE1 25.00 62.50 0.00 12.50
OE2   6.84 85.91 1.64   5.61
OE3   7.43 85.94 2.07   4.55
OE4   8.53 87.47 3.20   0.80
ME1 15.61 82.84 1.27   0.28
ME2   6.45 93.49 0.06   0.00
ME3   5.21 94.79 0.00   0.00
ME4   2.04 97.96 0.00   0.00
EModE1   5.35 93.95 0.00   0.70
EModE2   3.54 95.08 0.00   1.39
EModE3   3.53 95.56 0.00   0.91
Table 10.  Visualization of morphosyntactic categories of VPC with the particle
in in the Helsinki and Wycliffe Corpora.
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Px
Pxs
Pv
Av
O
E
1
O
E
2
O
E
3
O
E
4
M
E
1
M
E
2
M
E
3
M
E
4
E
M
o
d
E
1
E
M
o
d
E
2
E
M
o
d
E
3
This data illustrates the disappearance of the English prefix, but in focusing on the
shift between morphosyntactic categories it also points to a possible main reason
for this decline. In interpreting these quantitative results this article proposes mor-
phosyntactic shift and ensuing competition as the main factor leading to the
	 Stefan Diemer
Table 11.  Morphosyntactic categories of VPC with the particle on in the Helsinki
and Wycliffe Corpora (in percentage).
Period AV PV PX(t) PX(u)
OE1   0.00 93.33 0.00   6.67
OE2   3.41 74.06 0.95 21.58
OE3   0.75 81.69 0.00 17.56
OE4   0.37 92.93 0.68   6.02
ME1   3.04 93.30 0.62   3.04
ME2   4.17 95.83 0.00   0.00
ME3   2.51 97.30 0.19   0.00
ME4   2.96 96.88 0.16   0.00
EModE1   4.22 95.56 0.22   0.00
EModE2   7.91 92.09 0.00   0.00
EModE3 10.46 89.54 0.00   0.00
Table 12.  Visualization of morphosyntactic categories of VPC with the particle
in in the Helsinki and Wycliffe Corpora.
Px
Pxs
Pv
Av
O
E
1
O
E
2
O
E
3
O
E
4
M
E
1
M
E
2
M
E
3
M
E
4
E
M
o
d
E
1
E
M
o
d
E
2
E
M
o
d
E
3
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
decline of the prefixes, while allowing for additional factors, such as the break-
down of the orthographic standard in Middle English and the influence of other
languages, mainly French. In other words, the prefix disappeared because other
positions became available through a gradual process that involved an intermedi-
ate, separate-prefix category and was facilitated by external influences and the
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
absence of a standard position. Once the post-verbal position became available,
prepositional use ensued, followed by the development of specific adverbial func-
tions. This morphosyntactic shift can also be seen in the context of the develop-
ment of Indo-European languages in general. Leinen (1891) and Kurylowicz
(1964) see the origin of the prefix in a compounding of a previously free preverb
with a verb into a prefixed verb that may exhibit an extended meaning. Kurylowicz
discusses the Indo-European background of prefixes as “preverbs” (1964: 171)
which were not connected to the verb. Those preverbs could, like an adverb, be
moved around and were sensitive to syntactic shift. Thus, he constructs a variable
development over several languages, with Indo-European allowing a free position-
ing of verb and particle, respectively, and its successor Sanskrit preferring, like Old
English, prefixed verbs. Similarly, Leinen (1891) illustrates a gradual development
from Indo-European towards an almost exclusive preference of fixed prefixes in
Greek and Latin, and de la Cruz draws a parallel between Latin and Old English
prefixes (de la Cruz 1975).
6.	 Could the prefix stage a comeback?
Is the prefix really dead? The diachronic study suggests so. But this process may
not be irreversible. Kurylowicz (1964) suggests that morphosyntactic language de-
velopment is not unilateral, but rather cyclical and dynamic, with positions and
opportunities opening and closing, restrictions strengthening and weakening and
periods of frozenness alternating with periods of relatively free positioning op-
portunities. What would need to happen for the situation to change again? In
order for prefixation to be attractive again, there has to be, on the one hand, a
weakening in the position after the verb, and a newly available opening in the pre-
fix position. This might be possible in a situation without a clear standard word
order, like in early Middle English. In a situation of prescriptive language rules like
in present-day English this would be difficult to achieve. However, the corrective
influence of standard English may be weakening with the advent of computer-
mediated communication. As a consequence the English prefix may not, in fact, be
dead. Rather, it has the potential to become a revenant powered by web-based
communication. Recent corpus data arguably shows that the decline of prefixes in
English is not necessarily irreversible. In some forms of non-standard computer-
mediated communication such as blogs, prefix verbs can be found in increasing
numbers. Many of these verbs follow the precise patterns of Old English templates
(albeit unknowingly, one presumes) or are modelled similarly to prefix verbs in
other modern languages such as German.
	 Stefan Diemer
The way these new forms are created and used will also help to understand the
lexical and syntactical reasons why the prefix disappeared in the first place. In-
deed, the vast modern corpora could provide better forensic evidence of reasons
for this decline than the comparatively scarce Old or Middle English data. As a
rule, though, the new prefix verbs are not considered standard forms, meaning
that they will not be documented in traditional monitor corpora. What is needed,
therefore, is a corpus that is large and up-to-date enough to include non-standard
variation, such as the web. A commercial search tool such as Google Blog Search
provides easy access to qualitative examples of these forms and allows a rudimen-
tary quantification of their relative frequency. With this scanning, or Web as
Corpus, approach, various new forms can be documented and are further differ-
entiated in the second part of this article. Examples (14) to (25) are quoted from
a corpus created for an earlier study of non-standard verb formation in blogs
(Diemer 2008). The corpus was compiled using Google Blog Search and contains
more than 500 examples of new prefixed verb forms found in English-language
blogs (though not necessarily by native English speakers). Examples (14) to (18)
are almost exact analogies to Old English verbs, while examples (19) to (21) illus-
trate multiple particle use and reduplication analogous to Middle English redupli-
cative forms such as inlokynge into).
	 (14)	 15 Feb 2010 by Steven: However, the pseudogap is often observed to onset
at a significantly higher temperature.
	 (15)	 10 Nov 2009 by Daniel: The saga still ongoes, but this is another story.
	 (16)	 8 Aug 2009 by FT: So their systems have adapted to strip out the hemoglo-
bin from the intook blood.
	 (17)	 3 Oct 2009 by relicpro: Wedding Makeup. Portland, Oregon – The flower
girl onlooks as the bride puts on her makeup.
	 (18)	 11 Jan 2010 by BMC: now it`s partial and others are welcome to inmove.
	 (19)	 26 Aug 2006: these words that i ingave into my body
	 (20)	 1 Aug 2009 by oops: that they come in, all guests atstand up together
	 (21)	 14 Feb 2006 by JDub: it’s evident that these guys are worth inlooking into
further. (Diemer 2009: 42f.)1
These new forms show a clear weakening of the prescriptive standard English, a
typical feature of computer-mediated communication (CMC). In this case, the
preverbal position seems to be available for prefixation again. An investigation
of the reasons for using the prefixed particle rather than an existing standard
1.	 Examples (14)–(23) and (25) were collected in March 2009 via Google Blog Search as part
of a corpus-based study of blog posts – for a detailed description and analysis of the corpus see
Diemer (2009).
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
prepositional or adverbial particle (though in a non-standardized form) may help
to understand the process of the disappearance of the prefix. For further examples
see also Diemer (2009) and (2013).
Prefix verbs are comparatively easy to handle syntactically, avoiding the prob-
lem of where to position a separable particle. Most commonly in the CMC exam-
ples, adverbs are directly replaced by prefixes. Thus, inkick and inbring are used
instead of kick in and bring in, avoiding the question of where to position the ad-
verbial particle. A similar pattern can be seen in the use of intake as a verb. A
prefix may thus be seen as an attractive option to overcome the positioning prob-
lem. In contrast, the decline of the prefixed forms during the transition from Old
to Middle English was not a direct replacement of prefixes by adverbs, but rather a
gradual shift from prefix to preposition as a reaction to morphosyntactic shift,
which made the position available. Only later did adverbial phrases replace these
new forms and, together with advancing standardization led to the process be-
coming irreversible. Clear indicators for this gradual process are the redundant
forms with both prefixes and prepositions common in early Middle English, as il-
lustrated earlier in the article and in Diemer (2008). In this context, the new CMC
verbs with multiple particles might indicate a similar gradual process, as they
mostly occur with the few prepositions that have remained productive as prefixes,
such as in. With these particles, the multiple use could be similarly caused by inse-
curity as to what particle position to prefer. In addition, especially left-over and
incomplete prefix forms can motivate the creation of other verbs after the same
pattern, such as oncoming from incoming, as in example (22).
	 (22)	 9 Mar 2010: [...] pulling a friend from oncoming traffic on a busy road.
		 (Diemer 2009: 48)
The less complex syntactic structure resulting from the use of a prefixed verb may
be accompanied by refocusing or, to put it structurally, a re-strengthening of the
cohesion of particle and verb. Consider ontake and ongo, two non-standard prefix
verbs used instead of take on and go on. The phrase in order to ontake such an in-
sane project is, syntactically, more compact than in order to take on such an insane
project or even in order to take such an insane project on (both grammatical in
standard English). The form has the added advantage of rejoining the two compo-
nents of the verb phrase. Since both bloggers and readers of blogs aim at maximiz-
ing output and intake, respectively, a prefixed form may have the advantage of
being faster to produce and understand.
One key motivating factor that needs to be discussed here is that of language
contact. It is obvious that some of the examples included in this article indicate
non-native language use. As remarked in Diemer (2009) there are both practical
and theoretical reasons to include those examples. To state it again very briefly: It
	 Stefan Diemer
is quite impossible to exclude non-native bloggers by examining the content, since
the main applicable criterion would be non-standard language use, which quite
clearly is not limited to non-native bloggers. David Crystal’s observation on the
discourse of texting applies to blogging, as well: “It is so much viewed as a new
language that texters have been called bilingual.” (2008: 13). It seems equally im-
practical to try eliminating non-native users by external features such as excluding
certain uniform resource locators (URLs) from non-English-speaking countries.
The discourse of blogs is characterized by non-standard language features, and a
distinction between native and non-native blogger status is, in my opinion, futile.
Excluding a subset of bloggers because of their theoretical language ability would
make a corpus analysis less meaningful, especially since the exclusion criteria are
unclear. Consequently, both Diemer (2009) and the present study do not distin-
guish between possible native and non-native examples. However, equally obvi-
ously, the influence of other languages may yield one possible impulse for creating
these new forms. A proficient non-native user of English with a Dutch or German
first language background may, in a CMC environment, well use a form patterned
after either of these languages with highly productive verbal prefixes and thus ar-
riving at forms like ingo, infall or intake from (for example) German hineingehen
(‘go in’), einfallen (‘collapse’) or einnehmen (‘win’, ‘ingest, ‘capture’). These forms
may then also be used by a native English speaker in the same data stream and
spread from there. However, since these patterns were also part of earlier varieties
of English, more data will be needed to substantiate this impression. What we can
look at is the influence that patterns of speech from other language may have when
being transposed onto English as a new feature without historical precedent. An
interesting case is inknow, which in example (23) is used for “don’t know”. This
verb use seems to originate in a language that uses prepositioned particles to ne-
gate the verb, such as Chinese bù (the prepositioned negative particle). It could be
argued that this flexible use of negative prefixes will become more widespread as a
consequence of increased use of English as a world language. The increasing
non-native use of modern English in an international context may thus have an
unbalancing influence roughly similar in effect to the diglossia created by the in-
troduction of Norman French, which played a major part in weakening the clear
prefixed position and illustrating alternatives in post-positioned particles.
	 (23)	 1 Oct 2008 by kingu: grandpas come from canton, but, i inknow above
lund styles, schools or sect. please help me, yep! (Diemer 2009: 45)
Again, this is a topic well worth investigating further once more data can be
compiled.
Prefix verbs can also be used to create precise, compact special-purpose terms.
The special-purpose environment facilitates the formation of terms that could not
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
be used in a general context and that carry a precise, complex and limited mean-
ing. Thus, inbeing is used in a text about psychology, while inhave and intake are
used in a medical context. To inlet has been introduced as a wood- or metalwork-
ing term, to infall is astronomy jargon. Again, there may be a parallel in the his-
torical situation during the decline of the prefixes, where the loss of its position
and the increasing lack of a standard X may have reduced prefix verb productivity
in a special-purpose context.
Playful use of language is, of course, another classical reason for making up
new words, mostly in peer group communication or new registers such as CMC.
A good example is indone, which a female blogger used instead of “done in” in the
sense of “devastated”, addressing a female peer group. Others are incame and in-
thought. Many new prefix verbs also start off as proper names for new companies
or products, such as “Onbeing”, “Onthink” and “Onthought”. Here, the innovation
is driven by marketing considerations: a new name for a new, innovative product.
Conversely, the situation in early Middle English led to a limitation of literary use
of English, removing the need and the motivation for large-scale innovation.
There are, thus, several parallels between the morphosyntactic situation that
prompted the decline of the prefixes in the transition from Old to Middle English
and the conditions for the renewed use of new non-standard prefixed forms in
computer-mediated communication, as summarized in Table 13.
7.	 Conclusion
In summary, morphosyntactic competition emerges as the most likely candidate
involved in what happened to the prefixes, once syntactic change allowed a change
of position, while the study does not provide evidence that would point to seman-
tic (rather than purely lexical) reasons as a main contributing factor in the decline.
Thus, the reason for the decline of the prefixes seems to have been a morphosyn-
tactic shift supported by a weakened standard situation, while the possible revival
in CMC may happen through another morphosyntactic shift which, again, is sup-
ported by a weakened prescriptive standard grammar. Finally, the important tran-
sitional role of separate prefixes and reduplication should be stressed. They show
that the various stages of prefixation decline are much more numerous and dif-
ferentiated than previously documented and illustrated in most corpora. The ru-
mours of the death of the prefix may have been premature, and a cyclical revival
may well be possible.
Thus, a form such as ongo, which is still found fairly regularly in Old English,
may become current again in CMC, as the concluding examples (24) and (25) show,
which exhibit the same morphosyntax despite being more than 1,000 years apart.
	 Stefan Diemer
Table 13.  A comparison of factors relating to the development of English prefixed verbs.
From Old to Middle English:
Decline of the prefixes
CMC: Return of the prefixes?
Weakening of prescriptive standard grammar Weakening of prescriptive standard grammar
Increasing competition of prefix position and
postverbal position
Prefix position available in non-standard
CMC
Prefix use decreasing due to changes in
morphosyntactic system
Prefix use increasing due to need for
facilitation of syntax
Shift of stress, semantic reanalysis Semantic reanalysis
Transitional forms: separable prefixes,
reduplication
Transitional forms: reduplication
Influence of other languages: Diglossia Influence of other languages: English as a
world language
Decline of prefixation due to lack of special-
purpose function
Increased prefixation in special-purpose use
Limited literary use Humour and CMC drive innovation
Gradual decline through several stages Increase through innovation, analogy
formation
	 (24)	 se æwfæsta man ongæt hraðe
		 ‘the steadfast man goes on promptly’
		 Waerferth, Gregory the Great, HC 576 (Old English, 850–950)
	 (25)	 The saga still ongoes, but this is another story. (Daniel Of The Boustro-
phedonical Perspective (Present-Day English CMC, Diemer 2009: 47)
Sources
Helsinki Corpus TEI XML Edition. 2011. 1st edn. Honkapohja, A., Kaislaniemi, S., Kauhanen,
H., Kilpiö, M., Marttila, V., Nevalainen, T., Nurmi, A., Rissanen. M. & Tyrkkö, J. Helsinki:
The Research Unit for Variation, Contacts and Change in English (VARIENG), University
of Helsinki.
MS Bodley 296, MS Bodley 665, MS Douce 370, MS Laud misc. 361, MS Junius 29 (all repro-
duced with permission of The Bodleian Libraries, Oxford).
References
Adams, V. 2001. Complex Words in English. Harlow: Longman.
Brinton, L.J. 1988. The Development of English Aspectual Systems. Cambridge: CUP.
	 What happened to the English prefix?	 
Brinton, L.J. & Traugott, E.C. 2005. Lexicalization and Language Change. Cambridge: CUP. DOI:
10.1017/CBO9780511615962
Crystal, D. 2008. Txtng: the Gr8 Db8. Oxford: OUP.
Curme, G.O. 1914. The development of verbal compounds in Germanic. Beiträge zur Geschichte
der deutschen Sprache und Literatur 39: 320–361.
de la Cruz, J.M.F. 1975. Old English pure prefixes: structure and function. Linguistics 145:
47–81.
Diemer, S. 1998. John Wycliffe und seine Rolle bei der Entwicklung der englischen Schriftsprache
[Sprachwelten 21]. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Diemer, S. 2008. Die Entwicklung des englischen Verbverbandes – eine korpusbasierte Untersuc-
hung. Professorial qualification thesis, Technical University Berlin.
Diemer, S. 2009. It’s all a bit upmessing. Non-standard verb-particle combinations in blogs.
Saarland Working Papers in Linguistics 3: 35–56.
Diemer, S. 2013. The return of the prefix? New verb-particle combinations in blogs. In Corpus
Perspectives on Patterns of Lexis [Studies in Corpus Linguistics 57], H. Hasselgård, J. Ebel-
ing & S. Oksefjell Ebeling (eds), Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hiltunen, R. 1983. The Decline of the Prefixes and the Beginnings of the English Phrasal Verb: The
Evidence from some Old and Early Middle English Texts [Annales Universitatis Turkuensis
160]. Turku: Turun Yliopisto.
Kennedy, A.G. 1920. The Modern English Verb-Adverb Combination [Stanford University Publi-
cations in Language and Literature 1]. Stanford CA: Stanford University Press.
Kiffer, T.E. 1965. A Diachronic and Synchronic Analysis and Description of English Phrasal verbs.
Phd dissertation, University of Pennsylvania.
Kurylowicz, J. 1964. The Inflectional Categories of Indo-European. Heidelberg: Winter.
Leinen, R. 1891. Über Wesen und Entstehung der trennbaren Zusammensetzung des deutschen
Zeitwortes: Mit besonderer Berücksichtigung des Gotischen und Althochdeutschen. PhD dis-
sertation, University of Strassburg.
Los, B., Blom, C., Booij, G., Elenbaas, M. & van Kemenade, A. 2012. Morphosyntactic Change. A
Comparative Study of Particles and Prefixes. Cambridge: CUP.
Marchand, H. 1969. The Categories and Types of Present-Day English Word-Formation. München:
Beck.
Mitchell, B. 1978. Prepositions, adverbs, prepositional adverbs, postpositions, separable prefix-
es, or inseparable prefixes, in Old English? Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 79: 340–357.
Plag, I. 2003. Word Formation in English. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511841323
The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle
to Late Modern English
Towards extrapolating from Wright’s English
Dialect Dictionary
Manfred Markus
University of Innsbruck, Austria
The English Dialect Dictionary (1898–1905), in its digitised beta-version EDD
Online, allows for the retrieval of the gerund construction to be on verbing,
generally in the reduced form to be a-verbing. The pattern was so much alive
in the period covered by the EDD, 1700 to 1900, that its frequency can be
hypothetically seen as an indicator of its role in the preceding centuries back to
Late Middle English, even though evidence of its occurrence then has always
been scarce. This paper’s extrapolation from Late Modern English back to
Middle English is triggered by a striking similarity of distribution: to be a-verbing
is documented by the EDD for all British regions except the English North,
which is the very part where the participles of the progressive form to be verbing
in Middle English had, according to Mossé (1925: 78), the deviant suffix –ande.
My paper tries to explain this strange correlation, also throwing light on the
competition from the progressive, which was the accepted form of the written
standard, whereas to be a-verbing was the colloquial and dialectal variant.
Keywords: a-verbing construction, diachrony, dialectal variation, retrieval
methodology
1.	 Introduction
The grammatical pattern to be a-hunting, including modifications such as to
go a-hunting, is now known from traditional popular poetry and folk songs.1
The construction, henceforth neutrally called gerund construction or a-verbing
1.	 Cf. the well-known “Yorkshire Wassail Song” (Christmas carol) “We’ve been a while a-wan-
dering”, or the traditional hunting song “The dusky night”, with the refrain “a-hunting we will go”.
	 Manfred Markus
construction, is therefore generally considered dialectal, obsolete or archaic, and
as a result has aroused relatively little scholarly interest,2 quite in contrast to the
normal progressive or “expanded” form to be verbing, which has constantly been
topicalized over the last hundred years.3 This paper suggests seeing the old con-
struction to be a-verbing, based on former to be on/in/at verbing, in the light of
its probable role in spoken historical English. It did not only play a role as an
alternative option alongside the progressive form, but in the Late Middle English
(LME) and Early Modern English (EModE) periods, it was one reason, if not the
main one, for the success of the progressive form from about 1500 onwards. This
was also the view of Bybee et al. (1994: 136), who considered the locative expres-
sion of a preposition (on, in or at) plus a nominalised verb to be the only origin
of the modern expanded form. The earliest evidence of this gerundial construc-
tion has been dated (by Scheffer 1975: 245) to the 13th century for the preposi-
tional form with in, and (by Visser 1963; 1994) to the late 14th century for the
reduced form to be a-verbing. This evidence has, however, been questioned,
among others by Denison (1993: 402), who, faced with several progressive forms
from EME in Visser (1963: 1994), later summarised the point by assuming that
a “parallel development of nominal (prepositional) and verbal forms is more
likely” (Denison 1998: 159).
There is no real incongruity between the two views if language (development)
is generally seen not as monocausally conditioned, but as the product of both his-
torical and structural factors. If the gerund construction and the progressive prop-
er existed side by side in historical English, they could still have had a temporary
influence on each other, either in the one or the other direction.
--> to be V-ing
--> to be on/in/at V-ing
time line ME ModE
Figure 1.  Parallel development combined with mutual influence (model).
2.	 Cf. Denison’s (1998: 158–9) short reference to this pattern, which he calls, for the time since
the late 18th century, “peripheral to the history of the normal progressive” (p. 159). Amongst the
few authors that more extensively refer to the a-verbing pattern are Brunner (1962: 370–1),
Núñez Pertejo (1996); Ziegeler (2006: 44–48) and Kranich (2010: 108–111).
3.	 Schopf (1974) provides a useful survey of earlier research; cf., in particular, the introduction
and the selected bibliography (1–30 and 399–412). Also cf. Markus (1977), in particular,
152–160. The large number of studies on this topic is overwhelming. A good survey on the his-
torical progressive in relation to the gerund construction is provided by Ziegeler (2006: 42–48).
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
Figure 1 suggests that, notwithstanding the (possibly) parallel existence of the two
constructions, verbal and nominal, in EME, the gerund construction had a tempo-
rary impact on the progressive in LME and EModE, before the expanded form
came to dominate the scene.
An additional argument in favour of this cause-effect relationship is the simi-
lar Welsh construction y mae hi’n canu (‘She is singing’), quoted by Ziegeler (2006:
44) from Comrie (1976: 100), with ‘n as an aphetic relic of the spatial preposition
yng (‘in’). Denison (1993: 404), however, quotes Mossé (1938) in making a point of
the difference between in and on in the prepositional gerund, emphasising that in
ME in was more common than on and that, therefore, the progressive could not
possibly be derived from the gerund with on.
In my view, this statement is inconclusive because the claimed priority of the
(nominal) gerund vs. the (verbal) progressive is not prohibited by the lexical varia-
tion of in vs. on/at. Moreover, the temporary flourishing of the preposition in in ME
could be due to borrowing from French (en V-ant), later given up in favour of on.4
Obviously, there are many moot points in the history of English aspect, which
this paper does not aim to address. The essential problem is that older literature
was not corpus-based, and that the corpora used in more recent research have of-
ten proved too small or otherwise insufficient. As regards the a-verbing construc-
tion, the relevant literature has not been decisively based on spoken language. In
this paper, the evidence for the historical occurrence of the gerund construction is,
by extrapolation, taken from the digitised beta-version of Wright’s English Dialect
Dictionary (EDD, 1898–1906), which is presently available as EDD Online.5 Given
the provisional status of this beta-version and the strong variation of both syntac-
tic forms and spellings involved in the dialectal use of to be a-verbing, this paper
can only partly be corpus-linguistic in its approach. It will also describe the limita-
tions of a quantitative analysis at this point and make use of Wright’s own analysis
of the gerund construction in an EDD entry. The methodological implications are
twofold: (a) It will be shown that corpus analysis is severely hampered when
dialectal/spoken historical texts are the object of study. (b) ME and EModE have
been insufficiently represented by the written texts that have come down to us.
Our knowledge of these stages in the development of English may, therefore,
be enriched by extrapolating from considerably later documents, namely from
LModE. I would maintain that Wright’s EDD allows conclusions on the relation-
ship between the progressive and the gerund construction in LME and EModE.
With Bybee et al. (1994) and Elsness (1994: 22) I will argue that in LME and
4.	 On the role of the prepositional gerund in Old French, in particular with in, see Salvi
(2011: 371).
5.	 See <http://speed.uibk.ac.at/wright/default.wright>
	 Manfred Markus
EModE to be verbing and to be a-verbing merged in function and that the direction
of impact initially was from the gerundial a-verbing construction to the now stan-
dardised participial -ing construction rather than vice versa.
2.	 State of the art
It is generally known and agreed that the progressive or “expanded” form has con-
tinuously increased in frequency ever since 1500 (cf. Dennis 1948: 859; Denison
1998: 143), with a spurt in the 19th century (Strang 1982: 429). The ME period is
less transparent. The literature on both the expanded form proper and the gerund
construction (or “verbal substantive”) points to the increasing role – though on a
very low level – of both constructions in ME. Mossé (1952: 102) summarizes his
observations that “The verbal substantive in -ung, then -ing never stopped gaining
importance during the ME period”. He concludes by saying: “The fact that the
verbal substantive was very early merged in form with the new present participle
contributed greatly to its retaining verb characteristics.” (1952: 102)
On the other hand, it cannot be denied that the expanded form, too, clearly
existed in the late 14th century. Nehls (1974: 136–141) has given statistically-based
frequency figures on the second half of the 14th century that show the much high-
er occurrence of the pattern in the North of England than in the South. Using
Mossé’s frequency rates based on 100,000 words, Nehls counted four occurrences
of expanded forms in the legends of the SW, but 45 in those of the North. Even if
these figures from the pre-PC age (1974) are considered representative and fully
reliable (which is doubtful), the question remains as to what extent expanded
forms in ME were used functionally and systematically. Nehls himself agrees with
Bauer (1970) that, at the time of Chaucer and Gower, the aspectual system was still
“unvollständig ausgebildet” (‘incompletely developed’) (1974: 136). As regards the
form of the progressive, one of the confusing points has been that the form of the
suffix marker -ing was variable, according to dialect. -ing or -inge was limited to
the South and Midlands of England, whereas in the North speakers had -ande, in
the West -inde, and in the East -ende. Clearly, the d-forms -ande, -inde and -ende
are the more original ones, since they can also be found in Old English (OE) and
ME texts and can be related to similar participial suffixes in other West Germanic
languages such as German (-end).
Overall, the continuity of the progressive form in English language history has
been discussed most controversially, and only occasionally with regard to its rela-
tion to the gerund. Nickel (1966, 1974: 321f.) and Nehls (1974) are two of the
proponents of the hypothesis that the modern expanded form, with its progressive
function, already existed in OE.
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
The occurrences in OE are, however, low (cf. Braaten 1967: 173, “extremely
rare”) and sometimes non-reliable.6 Moreover, while investigating the semantic
function of OE “progressives”, Ziegeler (2006: 55) concludes that their aspectual
function in OE is doubtful.7 Similarly, Kranich (2010: 249) summarises her de-
tailed study by saying that the function of the progressive form in OE was “not yet
clearly grammatical”. As far as ME is concerned, “there is no denying the fact that
in the earliest Middle English texts the progressive form is not often met with”
(van der Gaaf 1974[1930]: 361). Ziegeler (2006: 66), on the basis of her data
(Helsinki Corpus), has found 168 tokens (vs. 260 verbal nouns, cf. Ziegeler 2006:
65), but, after a balanced discussion finds it “difficult to prove that grammaticalisa-
tion [of the progressive form] is at work”. Equally, Kranich (2010: 95), in a survey
of previous research and of her own quantifying analysis based on Archer 2, shows
very clearly that the progressive form occurred far too rarely before 1600 to allow
for statistical conclusions, but that it increased sufficiently to claim grammatical
systematicity from the beginning of the 17th century onwards. Kranich also em-
phasises the genre-specific implications of the early frequency rates and her im-
pression (in line with Görlach 1999: 82) that “the progressive is a feature typical of
oral, non-formal language use”.
In the same way, the construction to be a-verbing has “at all times been very rare
in literary English” (Åkerlund, 1936/7: 7), but it seems to have been more common
if one includes spoken language. Brunner (1962, II: 370), without statistical evi-
dence, calls it “sehr verbreitet” (‘most common’) in the 17th century. But Kranich
(2010: 108–111), following Elsness (1994), Núñez Pertejo (2004: 152–155) and
Wischer (2006), shows its “long-standing and continuing scarcity” (2010: 109) from
OE to EModE, adding her own results from Archer-2, with only ten occurrences
found from the beginning of the 17th century to the end of the 20th. The figure is
contrasted with 2,662 tokens of progressives proper found for the same time.
Kranich goes on to demonstrate that the difference in frequency has to do with
the affinity of the gerund to everyday, colloquial language use (2010: 110), but then
draws the negative conclusion that it “is impossible to ascertain on the basis of
written data whether the to be a-hunting construction was a frequent feature of
spoken language use”. By the same token, Núñez Pertejo (1996, 2004: 152–155),
finding a mere seventeen samples of the gerund construction in the EModE part
6.	 Many OE texts were translations from Latin originals which sometimes had participle forms
(erat docens; cf. Nickel 1974: 320) or deponens forms such as locutus est with their non-passive
meaning, so that in any case a two-word translation (spræcende is) seemed more appropriate.
7.	 See Ziegeler’s complete discussion of the restricted grammaticalness of the OE expanded form
(2006: 68–70); also cf. Nickel (1966, pp. 238–267). Mossé (1938: 35), too, had been of the opinion
that the periphrastic form had a continuous tradition in the English language. He saw it, however,
side by side with various other patterns available for expressing aspect (cf. 1938: I, § 267ff.).
	 Manfred Markus
of the Helsinki corpus, summarizes its historical role by underlining its colloquial,
lower-class, southern and American affinity (1996: 115). She concludes her survey
by recommending that “more investigation into the usage of the a-hunting con-
struction should be carried out, especially in the domain of British and American
dialects.” (1996: 115)
This is exactly what the present paper suggests we do. Going back to the sources,
particularly to spoken ones, seems all the more necessary in the face of the shakiness
of much of the research that has come down to us and which is basically threefold:
1.	 Many studies have suggested a merger of the two constructions at issue in this
paper, but failed to give details of distribution. This “blending theory” has
been defended by Jespersen (1909–49), Visser (1963–73), Bolinger (1971) and
Elsness (1994: 22). The general deficit lies in the fact that the English standard,
and genres close to it, have usually been the basis of analysis, and in the wide-
spread lack of a variety-oriented differentiation.8
2.	 Several studies have focussed on the possible influence that Celtic languag-
es may have had on the development of the gerund construction (e.g. By-
bee et al. 1994; Braaten 1967: 173ff.; Denison 1993: 400; Dal 1952).
Mittendorf and Poppe (2000), more specifically, have underlined the simi-
larity of to be a-verbing or of older to be on/in verbing with constructions
in Middle Welsh. The issue of the influence of a substrate on a superstrate
(i.e. the issue of external influence) should, however, not marginalise the
question of to what extent common people originally used the gerund con-
struction with an aspectual function and how this popular construction
then had a language-internal impact on the progressive form proper of the
standard.
3.	 In a number of meticulously empirical and mostly quite recent investigations,
the present or specifically 19th-century use of the progressive form, or of the
gerund in Middle English, has been analysed (Römer 2005; Smitterberg 2005;
Tajima 1985). Moreover, language history has been topicalised from cogni-
tively semantic and/or pragmatic points of view (Ziegeler 2006; Kranich 2010,
in her conclusions). Again, the question of the impact of the gerund on the
progressive form is not exhaustively dealt with.
To sum up, the gap that this paper wants to fill results from the fact that spoken Eng-
lish and, in particular, dialect English has not been taken seriously enough by linguists
8.	 Dialects are important in contributing to language development, but they are not claimed here
to be the only factor. I share the theoretical approach of a mutual influence of the written language
and the spoken languate on each other, as suggested, e.g., by Koch & Österreicher (1996).
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
as a source of information for historical linguistics.9 Or if it has, the approach has not
(yet) been based on corpus analysis. Given this situation, my first methodological is-
sue in this paper is to check the usability of the EDD as a corpus for dialect data.
3.	 Nineteenth-century evidence
Sources on or of the 19th century are a good starting-point for the use and distri-
bution of to be a-verbing in the history of (spoken) English. Beyond monographs
such as Smitterberg’s substantial book on the progressive in 19th-century English
(2005), Joseph Wright’s English Dialect Dictionary (1898–1905) is now available in
digitised form within the project EDD Online of the University of Innsbruck (for
an introduction see Markus (2007, 2008); Markus & Heuberger (2007); Markus,
Upton & Heuberger (2010)). Wright, a most knowledgeable expert on English his-
torical linguistics, was obviously aware of the frequent reduction of on and in to a
schwa sound, spelt <a>. In a passage of an entry on a-, he lists examples of this
product of reduction from various dialects (Figure 2).
VIII. A, prep. In very general use.
1. At, denoting place.
w. Wor.1‘E were a chu’ch o’Sund’y. Hrf.2 Suf.1‘A live a’hin
house.
2. Of.
Wm. T’lass hersel war i’t’saame way a thinkin’, JACK ROBISON
Aald Tales (1882) 3. w.Yks.1 If she nobbud could git a bit
a naturable rist. n.Lan. T’beams a our house are cedar, PHIZACKERLEY
Sng. Sol. (1860) i. 17. Lin.1 Out a work. n.Lin.1 Th’
fraame a’this here door. Nhp.1 Out a doors. Suf.1. I.W.1
A lig a mutton. w.Som.1 What manner a man. The tap a the hill.
Dev. Lets drink drap a ale, NATHAN HOGG Poet. Let. (1847) 49.
3. On; in.
N.Cy.2 A this side. Nhb.1 Wm.1 Et wes a Monda mornin.
[...]
4. To.
w. Som.1 Down a Minehead. I be gwain in a town.
5. With.
Wor. I’mgoin’a Bill Saunders to Redditch tu-night (J.W.P.).
Nhp.2 Cam in a me [came in with me].
[Cf. athin, athout.]
IX. A, conj. Occas.
1. And ; also when used in the sense of if
Suf.1 I’ll gi’ye a dunt i’the hid‘a ye dew so no more.
Figure 2.  Examples of on/in reduced to a in dialect in Wright’s EDD.
9.	 This also holds true for the otherwise excellent chapter “A-prefixation of -ing-forms” in
Schlüter (2005: 209–236). The author’s focus is neither on the history of the a-verbing forms nor
on dialects or other varieties of English, but on the role of the Principle of Rhythmic Alternation
for the distribution of a-verbing vs. verbing.
	 Manfred Markus
Obviously, this weakening of an unstressed syllable resulting in a simple schwa
(written <a>), known today from a handful of fossilised words such as aboard and
asleep, was a fairly common phenomenon in the spoken English of earlier times
(the EDD covers the period from 1700 to 1900). In another entry, Wright directly
refers to the a-verbing construction (“Before prp.”), and also to the similar verbal
noun (“vbl. sb.”), in each case with the prefixed schwa-sound, as a survival of OE
an/on (Figure 3):
This evidence from the EDD allows two conclusions: (a) the construction to
be a-verbing was fully in line with both LModE phonology/phonotactics and
syntax: the reduction (aphesy) of on/in in unstressed syllables to a mere schwa
was a more general phenomenon and not limited to the progressive form. In the
face of this, Mossé’s and Denison’s argument mentioned above, that the progres-
sive was not encouraged by the gerund with on because ME had more frequently
in does not really hold. (b) Wright’s dialectal attribution can be transferred into
a map, which, when correlated with the history of English, is quite revealing
(Figure 4).
This map needs some explanation. It shows the mostly coherent grey area of
the counties that had the a-verbing construction, without, of course, suggesting
that this was the only construction found there. Given the role of the standard
alongside dialects, we may assume that both constructions coexisted or competed
A, pref. Before prp. and vbl. sb., repr. OE. an, on. Sc.
Irel. Not found in Eng. counties n. of Pem. Shr. War.
Nhp. Rut. n.Cam. Nrf., exc. in e.Lan. n.Lin. Lei. (Belgrave
and Waltham); also not found in Hnt. nw.Nrf. e.Ken.
1. Before prp. or vbl. sb. used with vb. to be to form continuous
tense.
Ir. I’m a-thinkin’, BARLOW Bog’land (1892) 52. Lin. Git ma my
aale, fur I beant a-gawin’, TENNYSON N. Farmer, Old Style (1864)
st. 1. n.Lin.1 A consumptive person is said to be awearin’. Rut.1
I’m a-goin’whum. Nhp.1 How they are a-talking! s.War.1 We
[...]
2. Before vbl. sb. •
Sc. They hae taen Yule before it comes, and are gaun aguisarding
[mumming], SCOTT Guy Mannering (1815) xxxvi. e.Lan.1 Gone
a-working. sw.Lin.1 The birds, they start a-whistling of a morning.
Hrf.2 Measter’s got seventeen on‘em out a yacorning [pigs
feeding on acorns]. Glo.1 A-chatting, picking up chats or small
sticks.
A, pref.2 Beforepp.,repr.OE. ge-. In all the sw.counties,
including Wil. Dor. Som. Dev. Cor.; also in Pem. and parts
of Wor. Glo. Oxf. Brks. Sur. Hmp.
se.Wor.1’I was a-dreanied’for‘ I dreamt.’Glo. Ye and William
Stretch be so easy a-gallowed [frightened], GISSING Both of this
Parish (1889) I. 117; It be a-rooted on his side of the bruck,
Figure 3.  Beginning of Wright’s entry on a-verbing with extracted list of areas mentioned.
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
Grey : a-verbing forms
White : no such forms
Black : no a-verbing forms in exceptional areas
Figure 4.  Wright’s results on the a-verbing construction mapped into a county outline
map of the UK.
with each other. There were others, e.g. the opposition between simple and com-
plex predicates (to smoke vs. to have a smoke), which has semantic, but also aspec-
tual10 implications (cf. Labuhn 2001: 199; Brinton & Akimoto 1999). But in order
not to lose our focus, we leave such constructions aside.
This coexistence of different modes of expressing aspect in the 19th century
hastoberelatedtothesyntacticinstabilityofthegerundatthattime.AsSmitterberg
(2005: 36–7) states, the nominal quality of the gerund in to be a-verbing is some-
times enhanced by a following prepositional object (I was a-cleaning of myself),
just as the normal progressive form is combined with a non-prepositional object
(I was cleaning myself). On the other hand, there are also occasional “non-gram-
matical” counter-examples of the patterns: I was a-cleaning myself/I was cleaning of
myself (cf. Smitterberg, loc. cit.; Denison 1998: 158). It seems fair to assume that
the latter examples were the result of some degree of confusion about the verbal or
10.	 I am using “aspect” in a very general and comprehensive sense.
	 Manfred Markus
nominal quality of the construction concerned.11 In other words, in the 19th cen-
tury the progressive form to be verbing was not clearly seen as a verbal category
and in contrast to the nominal gerund, but was still under “nominal attack”, at least
from the point of view of “people”. If this was still the case in LModE, how much
more would the two constructions have been mixed up in EModE. Smitterberg’s
observations may be seen as a late result of the two constructions having merged
in earlier centuries, at a time when the progressive form first started to manifest
itself as a grammatical category.
4.	 Retrieval problems involved
In trying to trace the a-verbing forms empirically either in Wright’s EDD or in
earlier corpora, we should be aware of the practical problems of retrieval. Two
levels of variation are involved here: variation of orthography/pronunciation of an
a-verbing sample, and variation in its syntax.
The first type may initially be illustrated by the example to be a-singing. In the
EDD this gerund construction occurs in the following variants:
		 a-singing / a-singin / a singing / a singin / asinging / asingin / a-singin’ /
asingin’ / a singin’
In addition, all these spellings may additionally vary in the spelling of the verb
stem sing-, in that, for example, Somerset forms preferably use a <z> instead of the
<s> in singing. A-going, another example, occurs in the forms a-gwain, agwaine,
agwine, agwaain, agooin’. Such variation is hard for researchers to take into ac-
count, and generally diminishes the reliability of empirical results.
The syntax of to be a-verbing also makes our corpus analysis difficult because
it manifests itself with a good deal of variation both of the auxiliary to be and the
gerund itself. In dialect texts of the EDD, the auxiliary can be any of the inflected
forms of to be. Moreover, some common full verbs can take the role of the aux-
iliaries – instead of to be a-verbing we may find to go a-verbing or to start a-
verbing. To set is another such verb that tends to collocate with a-verbing. A
phrase to set somebody a-going, unless excluded per se as a totally different pat-
tern, creates the additional problem of the normal a-verbing construction to be
varied by an intermediary object. Moreover, the well-known refrain of the folk-
song a-hunting we will go shows that retrievability on the computer may be
11.	 While such mixed constructions were not very frequent – Smitterberg (2005: 37) refers to
only 20 occurrences) –, they suggest that users were sometimes uncertain about the nominal or
verbal status of the progressive form with or without prefixed a-.
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
affected by the inversion of syntax. Of course, contextuality can be defined in
a concordance program, but the wider the context, the more invalid matches
are provided.
Needless to say, there are further problems and traps in the retrieval of the a-
verbing pattern. Words like again nicely fulfil the criteria of our query (initial a and
final -in), but obviously lead us off track. On the other hand, working with the
corpus has helped me to the unexpected observation that there are relics of the old
-and and -end-suffixes for the participle or gerund in the EDD (instead of -ing).
Moreover, to be on verbing and to be in verbing as predecessors of to be a-verbing
are frequent enough to be taken into account.
However, all these possibilities and problems in the retrieval operation pro-
duce so many imponderables that a strictly quantifying analysis of the dialect cor-
pus of the EDD is not feasible at present. The need for an incalculable amount of
manual work may have prevented previous scholars from analysing the a-verbing
construction in dialect texts, except for specially selected individual verbs (as in
the case of Schlüter 2005). In the present paper, too, no definitive answers to the
question of the frequency of a-verbing can be given. But the evidence, it is hoped,
is quantitatively sufficient to allow some conclusions.
5.	 Provisional quantitative analysis
It will only be possible to provide a really detailed quantitative analysis on the
basis of EDD Online when the Innsbruck project of that name is finished, i.e. in
2014. The entire text of the EDD will then have been tagged in terms of more
than 200 features, so that grammatical forms, spelling variants, morphemes etc.
can be more precisely identified. Since the beta-version of the EDD does not yet
allow a concordance, I worked with our initially scanned txt-version of the
dictionary, applying WordSmith 4 to it. The first tentative query referred to hy-
phenated a-verbing constructions, with be, been or the spelling variant bin as
collocates (Figure 5).
The extract in Figure 5 provides mainly valid matches. But the problem with
this query is that the output of only 86 findings is rather small. Some of them
nicely demonstrate spelling variation (a-gwain, a-larfin [‘a-laughing’], a-veelin’
[‘a-feeling’]), with eclectic occurrence of the final apostrophe. The disappointingly
low number of results, however, raises the question of the frequency of non-hy-
phenated or separate spellings of the a-verbing construction.
	 Manfred Markus
Figure 5.  Concordance of be/been/bin + a-*in* (selection).
The second query, therefore, refers to a *in*, i.e. a string with initial a plus a subse-
quent word with final -in, -in’ or -ing – at least this is what I hoped for when I
started the query. But while the result is quantitatively overwhelming (4,645 hits),
both the possibly separate spellings of <a> and the truncation -in* cause the inclu-
sion of too many invalid results, such as a fine or a basin or – most frequently – a
bin (for ‘have been’). Obviously the query is far from reliable. However, some
methodological conclusions are encouraged by valid results that were eclectically
found. Serendipity provides examples such as:
1.	 ‘Er poor little mouth was a biverin’
2.	 Let’s go a blackberryin’.
3.	 What bist a blearin about for?
4.	 That theare ohd dog’s alus a belkin’ i’ th’ sun noo. (i.e. ‘That there old dog is
always a-belching in the sun now.’)
Example 1 illustrates that our pattern does indeed not always occur with the in-
finitive to be (as mentioned above), but, naturally, with some inflected form of the
verbum substantivum. Example 2 shows the use of a-verbing with a full verb, in
this case to go. Example 3 illustrates the use of the archaic 2nd pers. sing. form bist.
And the last clause nicely demonstrates the occasional use of the spelling variant
alus (‘always’) as a collocate of a-verbing, with the semantic function of repetitive
continuity and, perhaps, the pragmatic function of disapproval.
In order to achieve some quantification of such findings, I first searched again
for the string _a_*in*, with the spaces underlined here to emphasise that a really
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
Table 1.  Collocates of _a_*in*.
be a-verbing 210 (80)
been 43 (33)
bin – [of 16]
is 73 (2)
‘s 2 (1)
am 3 (–)
‘m –
are 3 (3)
‘re –
bist 5 (5)
was 59 (8)
were 6 (3)
ain’t – [of 17]; 2 with -ing
aren’t [of 4]
isn’t – [of 51]
wasn’t – [of 29]
weren’t – [of 3]
go 10 (6)
went 4 (1)
gone 9 (8)
goest –
going 10 (10)
alw* 4 (2)
________
441 (168)
stands alone in spelling and is neither part of the preceding nor of the following
word. I was thus trying to find samples of the type a verbin(g). The collocates that
were then individually defined are listed in Table 1, which also contains the fre-
quency figures of the results, first the mechanically retrieved ones and in parenthe-
ses the lower figures of the results after my manual check-up. The collocation span
was defined by up to two positions to the left of the query string.
Despite a large amount of “noise” in the first set of figures, it can be concluded
from the 168 valid results (in parentheses) that the lion’s share of the cases of the
pattern to be a verbing are mostly used in infinitive constructions. On the other
hand, negated forms such as ain’t seem to disagree with our construction.
But the figures of Table 1 do not really provide far-reaching evidence because
there are gaps in our reasoning. First of all, the general frequency of the strings of
Table 1 would have to be used as a frame of reference, but for be, been and was the
general frequency rates are all higher than 16,000, which is the number where
	 Manfred Markus
WordSmith stops processing – a number too high to handle. Moreover, <bin>, am-
biguously standing for been or are, occurs 1,572 times, <wes> for was or were (179
times), is occasionally appears as <ys>, and the strings ‘s and ‘m are grammatically
ambiguous (e.g. used as Saxon genitive suffix and as a reduced form of him or them
respectively). Finally, we should be aware that some of the less frequent collocates
of Table 1 would provide higher numbers of matches if we had added <a-verbin*>
and <averbin*> to the separately spelt form <a verbing> that Table 1 is based on.12
While the question of detailed quantification seems essential from the point of
view of corpus linguistics, the complexity of formal variation in dialect texts, as
reflected in the “phonetic” spellings of the EDD, is not only frustrating for the
analyst, but defies a meaningful interpretation. All we can sensibly conclude from
Table 1 is that one has to reckon with many variants of the auxiliary to be, both
inflectional and spelling variants, and that the infinitive form be is the most fre-
quent, covering nearly half of all matches.
The fact that the a-verbing construction occurs in a number of different
spellings, further increases the complexity of our data. Ideally, the variants of the
a-verbing construction would include the spelling variants of the suffix -ing as -in,
-in’, -yng, -ynge and even -an, as well as the variable preposition on/in. I suggest
that the provisional picture represented by Table 1 is at least completed by the re-
sults for what can be seen as the normal spelling cases, of the types to be a-verbing
and to be averbing, i.e. of all the cases with joint spellings, either hyphenated or
not, and, moreover, with either -ing or reduced -in or in’ as suffix.13 Table 2 pres-
ents the results of this query, again with the figures initially mechanically produced
by WordSmith and the subsequent figures then added in parentheses for the re-
sults obtained after my manual analysis.
While these numbers are somewhat higher than the previous ones of Table 1,
they again cannot claim to be fully precise, also because the Innsbruck beta ver-
sion of the EDD still contains spelling mistakes, which have been subject to my
team’s recent correction work.14 The main reason for the lack of complete reliabil-
ity is, however, the indomitable complexity of spelling variation. To add three
more to those already mentioned: <wes>, often as a variant of <was>, occurs 179
times in the EDD, <wir>, as a possible variant of <were>, 302 times, etc. Another
case in point of the challenging variation of tokens in dialect texts is the use of
12.	 My initial attempt to include all spellings of a + V right away proved unfavourable for the
manual analysis.
13.	 The other suffixes mentioned are negligible, due to their extremely rare occurrence.
14.	 Our orthographical correction work of the XML-version of the text was, in fact, completed
in March 2012, but given the various other deficits of the data as regards tagging and retriev-
ability, the new version probably cannot be put back online before 2014.
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
Table 2.  Collocates of _a*in* [standing for a-verbin(g) and averbin(g)]
** I excluded ain as a stopword and, in the manual analysis, again, another typical “trap”.
total (excl. ain)**: 11.913
be/been/bin 174 (99)
is/’s 66 (38)
are/’re 44 (8)
was 161 (40)
were 64 (12)
go/went 86 (35)
gone 16 (9)
going 9 (2)
alw* 11 (9)
________
631 (252)
always as a collocate. This has been addressed by Kranich (2010: 213–221) and
may therefore deserve some special attention. The numbers for always given in
Tables 1 and 2 on closer examination prove to be misleadingly low. While <always>
itself occurs altogether 11 times in combination with a*in(g) or a-*in(g) (Table 2),
browsing in the WordSmith kwic concordance reveals clauses such as
		 She’s alus a-chittering.
		 thaay’re alust a-claumin’ aboot
		 Her be alleys a caggin him.
		 Them chickens o’ Tyler’s be allus a batherin’ in our gardin.
		 ... alwes a-querking an’ a crinking!
		 She’s alus a natterin’ ...
		 His wife is always a maggin at him,
These examples suggest that always in combination with the gerund form a-verbing
haspragmaticimplicationsofimpatience,angerorannoyance,justasinthe caseofthe
modern progressive form. But, again, the point cannot be proved because the statisti-
cal evidence is rather shaky. Naturally, the first step towards getting the whole picture
is to trace all spelling variants of always in the EDD. Going through the procedure of
discovering them in WordSmith, the user is confronted with no less than 20 variants:
		 alus / al’ays / al’us / al’ys / al’es / alwaies / alwayes / alwiz /alwes / allwayes
/allways / alwiz / alwes / alust /alleys / allis / allays / allus / all way (and, of
course, always)
All these variants naturally occur with uneven frequency. Allus, for example, can be
found 80 times, al’ays 42 times, alwes 15 times, and the others much less frequently.
	 Manfred Markus
In other words, our statistical findings of spelling types represent a most unequal
number of tokens. A dilemma of historical English corpus linguistics becomes evi-
dent here. The picture may be relatively clear as long as we keep to spelling norms
(cf. Table 1 above) or pick out deviant individual spellings (as with always), but it
becomes fuzzy as soon as we try to generalise by including frequency rates of the
other spellings as well, in this case those used for the syntactic construction to be
a-verbing collocating with always. A combination of all the variables involved theo-
retically implies at least 1,320 spelling options for the occurrence of always in com-
bination with a-verbing (the hyphenated spelling variant) alone15 – too many to al-
low for quantification in a paper. We therefore have to leave alone the statistics of
occurrence, likewise excluding the frequencies of full verbs as collocates (e.g. to go
a-verbing), as well as the comparison with the progressive form proper. Yet, even
though the figures of Table 1 and 2 are approximative and tentative, they give suf-
ficient evidence that the a-verbing construction was still very much alive in the 18th
and 19th centuries, and that always, albeit in the disguise of many variant spellings,
was quite common as a collocate of this construction. Kranich (2010: 252) has
found an increase in the collocation of always with the normal progressive for the
19th and 20th centuries, interpreting the negative speaker attitude expressed by this
construction as a hint that the progressive was partly moving away from its earlier
mainly aspectual function. Always + a-verbing seems to share and anticipate this
subjectivism, but the quantitative evidence has to be provided in future research.
As regards the construction to be a-verbing as such, with or without always, it
was certainly more common in LModE than is suggested by the results provided by
Núñez Pertejo (2004) and Kranich (2010: 109), using Archer-2 (1600–1999). For the
time from 1600 to the end of the 20th century, Kranich has only found ten examples,
and for the EDD period, i.e. the 18th and 19th centuries, only three. She sums up
this point of her investigation by assuming that between 1500 and 1700, “a steady
decrease of this type of construction [i.e. of to be a-verbing], at least in writing, took
place” (Kranich 2010: 109). Our figures of Tables 1 and 2 allow for the divergent
conclusion that the construction was alive and kicking in LModE and, therefore,
probably in EModE, at least in spoken dialect (to echo Kranich’s phrasing).
Given, however, the overall inadequate research situation from the point of
view of corpus linguistics, it is convenient to have an entry in the EDD which
provides an overview of the use of the a-verbing construction, listing its areas for the
18th and 19th centuries. Figure 4 above, repeated in the left half of Figure 6, illus-
trates the result. The grey zone, with an occurrence of a-verbing forms, is restricted
to Scotland, Ireland, the English South and parts of the Midlands. Suspecting that
15.	 20 (variants of always) x 22 (variants of collocates (Table 1)) x 3 (spelling variants of <a-
verbing>).
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
this distribution could possibly correlate with the distribution of participle endings
in ME, I compared Figure 4 with the classical map in Mossé (1952: 78) on the dis-
tribution of the -ande, -ende, -inde and -ing(e)-suffixes of the participle (Figure 6).
Figure 6 suggests some connection beween the suffix -ing(e) both in the South
and the Central Midlands of England, and the preference there for the a-verbing
construction. If we look more closely, it is clear that the -inde and the -ende areas,
i.e. parts of the WML and the EML, also belong largely to this dialectal zone. The
black spots, standing for exceptional/insular areas of non-occurrence of a-verbing,
can be interpreted as rudimentary relics of the -ende and -inde belts. The island
character is particularly striking in the case of East Kent. For the rest, with the only
exceptions of Staffordshire, Derbyshire, parts of Nottinghamshire and the southern
part of the West Riding, the historical suffix -ing(e) for the participle encouraged
the a-verbing construction in LModE, paving the way to survival well into ModE.
grey: a-verbing forms
white and black: no a-verbing forms (black for exceptional areas)
Figure 6.  Distribution of to be a-verbing vs. to be verbing aligned with the distribution of
participle suffixes in ME (Mossé 1952: 78).
	 Manfred Markus
Figure 7.  Relics of on verbin(g (archaic for a-verbing) from the EDD (1700–1900).
The similarity between the two maps is even increased if we include older on verb-
ing as a predecessor of a-verbing. Figure 7 is an extract of the WordSmith result
panel of a query for on *in*.
The total number of matches is 819, but most of them are “noise”. Of the re-
maining fourteen examples (Figure 7), six appear with the verb set (to be set on
verbing) and could, therefore, be seen as invalid, using phrasal verbs rather than
auxiliaries. Moreover, the quotation in line 6 is in OE, not in LModE. Line 5, on the
other hand, contains an additional example (It’s just on boiling), which I seem to
have overlooked in my scanning of the 819 passages. In any case, the few valid in-
stances that are left reveal that the on-construction has survived in combination
with a few everyday words (dying, looking, plowing, styening (= ‘stoning’ (the
field))16 What is more, the areas of occurrence involved in these exceptional ex-
amples confirm and nicely round off the picture of the survival of the a-verbing
construction: they come from n.Lin. (North Lincolnshire), Down (Ireld.), w.Yks.
(West Yorkshire), s.Not. (South Nottinghamshire), ne.Yks. (Northeast Yorkshire)
and Nhb. (Northumbria). It is not surprising that these areas are mostly either part
of the grey a-verbing zone of Figure 4 (n.Lin., Down), or adjoin it (w.Yks. and
s.Not.), thus increasing the close similarity to the widely coherent area that Mossé
marked on his map as the “sleping(e)” area, with the inclusion, however, of most of
the slepende- and slepinde-belts in the East and West respectively. Only ne.Yks. and
Nhb. are outside this area, but only slightly so – ne. Yks. may have been influenced
16.	 = ‘Gathering stones off arable land’; cf. EDD under stone 12.
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
by its neighbouring counties further south, and Nhb. by the Scottish lowlands
across the border.
6.	 Concluding interpretation
If there had been simple evidence for the occurrence and raison d’être of the ger-
und form to be a-verbing and for its development in the history of English in rela-
tion to the progressive form, the answers concerning these two forms expressing
English duration, progression or “aspect” would probably have been given long
ago, and there would have been less controversy. But for too long the evidence has
been based on inadequate sources, namely written texts and texts hardly represen-
tative of everyday usage. Since spoken documents of English language history
were simply not available until the invention of sonography (i.e. practically until
after 1900), the only solution so far has been for some scholars to resort to indirect
sources, such as old grammars and dictionaries, selections of special genres that
come relatively close to the spoken language (e.g. drama), selections of special pas-
sages (such as dialogues) in otherwise written works, etc. But then most scholars
of historical English have not even been genre-oriented in this sense.
The “indirect” source recommended in this paper is Wright’s comprehensive
dialect dictionary, which covers the LModE period from 1700 to 1900, to be used
to support our interpretation of earlier centuries. Dialect is usually a long-lasting
phenomenon, or at least it was, as long as it was not affected by industrialisation
and its repercussions in the late 19th century. We can, therefore, count on observa-
tions from the EDD to throw light on English language use in earlier periods.
The wide use of the gerund construction to be a-verbing, based on former to be
on (or in/at) verbing, is an example of the long survival of spoken language habits.
The EDD gives evidence of its distribution mostly in those areas of LModE where
the ME participle form was -ing(e), -inde or -ende, rather than -and(e). The reason
for this coincidence is easy to see: the suffix -ing(e) of the gerund could more eas-
ily collapse with -ing(e) of the participle and its dialectal d-versions -inde and
-ende, because the phonological difference between /i/ and /e/ (high and mid-high
vowel) is less marked than between /i/ and /a/ (high and low vowel).17 As regards
the word-final consonants, in colloquial English all of them would equally have
been reduced to -in /in/, whereas the participle suffix -and(e) had a better chance
to stay unaffected by the gerundial competitor. As a result, the progressive proper
17.	 In manys parts of Scotland, even today short /i/ is markedly lower than in the Southern
Standard, tending to be central [ï] or [ə]; cf. Hughes et al. (2005: 104) on Edinburgh English.
	 Manfred Markus
could thrive more in the North of England than elsewhere (cf. Nehls 1974: 136–
141, mentioned above).
The formal identity of the gerund and the participle forms, both in combina-
tion with to be, was bound to have caused a functional merger as well. It is more
than likely that the impulse of the aspectual (or “progressive”) function went from
the gerund construction to the participle one, which also means from spoken to
written usage, and not in the opposite direction. This direction of influence would
agree closely with the “triumph of English” in the late 14th century (cf. the title of
the book by Cottle (1969), i.e. the rebirth of English as the first and main public
language). If the popular language, i.e. dialects, had the a-verbing construction
with some kind of progressive or aspectual function in its grammatical repertoire,
then this would have had an influence on the development of the progressive
proper. Theoretically, the impact could have come from either direction, but
historically and sociolinguistically the more likely scenario is that the two con-
structions coexisted im ME in different regions, different registers and on different
social levels (as assumed above in Figure 1) and that the common people’s version
of “ aspect”, or its more temporal predecessors, made an impact on the progressive
proper to the extent that “the people” generally managed to improve its social role
in the later Middle Ages. The “continuing scarcity” of the gerund construction
(Kranich 2010: 109) is a corpus-linguistic fallacy based on corpora which do not
(sufficiently) represent the spoken language.
Given the proven scarcity of the progressive form in ME writing, and the alleg-
edly scarce, but probably common gerund construction in spoken ME, the distri-
butional connection (Figure 6) between the ME participle suffixes (–inge, -ende,
-inde, -ande) and the gerund construction to be verbing 300 to 500 years later can
only be explained as follows. The formal similarity in the South and Midlands as
well as Scotland and Ireland allowed functional blending. It can be left open here
whether the function was first mainly progresssive, i.e. temporal, and only later
more and more aspectual, including subjective and interpretative attitudes of
speakers (cf. Kranich 2009; Hancyl 2008). In any case, it stands to reason that the
direction of influence initially went from the (supposedly) frequent to the less fre-
quent construction. The English North seems to have gone a way of its own: more
occurrences of the progressive proper, but no use of the gerund construction. For
the South, the assumption of the gerund’s primary role is enhanced by the equally
nominal construction in Middle Welsh (geographical proximity), and also by the
French construction en V-ant. In the EModE period, perhaps even a bit earlier (cf.
Gwosdek 2000), the tide may have turned, with schoolmen and grammarians ad-
vancing to be opinion-leaders. Smith’s (2007) claim (rejected by Kranich 2010: 109)
may, therefore, be justified for the EModE centuries, namely that the main factor in
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
the rise of the progressive proper was the prescriptive bias of grammarians to the
written norms and against “vulgar” language.
For ME, many questions on aspect still seem unanswerable, but this paper
suggests that the answers can be found neither in ME nor in the frequency rates of
the expanded form alone, nor in the language use of historical English literature
with its general adherence to the English standard, at least since 1400. I would
claim that the gerund form to be a-verbing, as used in many English dialects, has
an important share in the development and functionalisation of the form to be
verbing. Given the lack so far of fully convincing evidence on ME, I have extrapo-
lated from dialect use in a much later period, trusting that dialect was long-lived
in earlier centuries. The result – much higher frequencies of to be verbing than has
been observed by recent corpus linguists – is in line with what Mossé suggested
nearly 90 years ago, in his assumption that the sporadic role of the expanded form
in ME, after higher frequency figures in OE, had to do with the temporary rele-
vance of the gerund form (1925, repr. in Schopf (1974: 309–319)).
This assumption also finds support in more recent theoretical thought, as ut-
tered by Bybee et al.’s (1994: 136), who claim that the progressive semantically
started as a spatial concept, supported in this by the gerund construction, and
later turned temporal. To be on verbing was thus a locational image, used as a
metaphor for temporal/aspectual implications. Space as a visualisation of time is
quite common in our daily metaphors and has been discussed as one of the “ori-
entational metaphors” (Lakoff & Johnson 1980: 14–19). Given this universal
background of space and time/aspect in relation to each other,18 it comes as no
surprise that one of the most complex grammatical means of perspectual time
organisation in English – aspect as signified by the expanded vs. the simple form
– should, in its decisive phase of LME, have a formal precursor that appeals to our
spatial visualisation.
References
Åkerlund, A. 1936/7. I go a-fishing. An historical and geographical sketch of the a-phrase in its
active significance. Studia Neophilologica 9: 3–13. DOI: 10.1080/00393273608586799
Bauer, G. 1970. Studium zum System und Gebrauch der ‘Tempora’ in der Sprache Chaucers und
Gowers. Wiener Beiträge zur Englischen Philologie 73. Wien: Braumüller.
Bolinger, D. 1971. The nominal in the progressive. Linguistic Inquiry 11: 246–250.
18.	 German, too, has a gerund construction with a temporally aspectual meaning and a meta-
phorically spatial manifestation: am Arbeiten sein (i.e. ‘on work [nominalised infinitive] be’),
which is both dialectal and colloquial. In German standard, there is no expression of aspect ex-
cept by lexis.
	 Manfred Markus
Braaten, B. 1967. Notes on continuous tenses in English. Norsk Tidsskrift for Sprøgvidenskap 21:
167–180.
Brinton, L.J. & Akimoto, M. (eds). 1999. Collocational and Idiomatic Aspects of Composite Pred-
icates in the History of English [Studies in Language Companion Series 47]. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.47
Brunner, K. 1962. Die Englische Sprache. Ihre geschichtliche Entwicklung, 2nd edn, 2 Vols. Tübin-
gen: Niemeyer.
Bybee, J., Perkins, R. & Pagliuca, W. 1994. The Evolution of Grammar: Tense, Aspect, and Modal-
ity in the Languages of the World. Chicago IL: Chicago University Press.
Comrie, B. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: CUP.
Cottle, B. 1969. The Triumph of English 1350–1400. London: Blandford Press.
Dal, I. 1952. Zur Entstehung des englischen Participium praesentis auf –ing. Norsk Tidsskrift for
Sprøgvidenskap 16: 5–116.
Denison, D. 1993. English Historical Syntax: Verbal Constructions. London: Longman.
Denison, D. 1998. Syntax. In The Cambridge History of the English Language, S. Romaine (ed.),
92–329. Cambridge: CUP.
Dennis, L. 1948. The progressive tense: frequency of its use in English. PMLA 55: 855–865. DOI:
10.2307/458746
EDD Online, <http://www.uibk.ac.at/anglistik/projects/speed/startseite_edd_online.html> (11
September 2012)
Elsness, J. 1994. On the progression of the progressive in Early Modern English. ICAME Journal
18: 5–25.
Görlach, M. 1999. English in Nineteenth-Century England. An Introduction. Cambridge: CUP.
DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511627828
Gwosdek, H. 2000. A checklist of English grammatical manuscripts and early printed grammars
c. 1400–1540. The Henry Sweet Society Studies 6. Münster: Nodus Publikationen.
Hancyl, S. 2008. Subjectivity and the progressive form in early eighteenth-century spoken
discourse. Anglophonia: French Journal of English Studies 24: 197-218.
Hughes, A., Trudgill, P. & Watt, D. 2005. English Accents and Dialects. An Introduction to Social
and Regional Varieties of English in the British Isles. London: Hodder Arnold.
Jespersen, O. 1909–49. A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles. London: Allen &
Unwin.
Koch, P., & Österreicher, W. 1996. Sprachwandel und expressive Mündlichkeit. Zeitschrift für
Literaturwissenschaft und Linguistik 102: 64–96.
Kranich, S. 2009. Interpretative progressives in Late Modern English. In Current Issues in Late Mod-
ern English, I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade & W. van der Wurff (eds), 331–357. Bern: Peter Lang.
Kranich, S. 2010. The Progressive in Modern English. A Corpus-Based Study of Grammaticaliza-
tion and Related Changes. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Labuhn, U. 2001. Von give a laugh bis have a cry: Zu Aspektualität und Transitivität der V+N-
Konstruktionen im Englischen. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Lakoff, G. & Johnson, M. 1980. Metaphors We Live By. Chicago IL: The University of Chicago Press.
Markus, M. 1977. Tempus und Aspekt. Zur Funktion von Präsens, Präteritum und Perfekt im
Englischen und Deutschen. Munich: Wilhelm Fink.
Markus, M. 2007. Wright’s English Dialect Dictionary computerised: Towards a new source of
information. In Studies in Variation, Contacts and Change in English: Towards Multimedia
in Corpus Studies, P. Pahta, I. Taavitsainen, T. Nevalainen & J. Tyrrkö (eds). Research Unit
for Variation, Contacts and Change in English (VARIENG), University of Helsinki. <http://
www.helsinki.fi/varieng/journal/volumes/02/markus/>
	 The pattern to be a-hunting from Middle to Late Modern English	 
Markus, M. 2008. Joseph Wright’s English Dialect Dictionary computerised: A platform for a
new historical English dialect geography. In Historical Englishes in Varieties of Texts and
Contexts: The Global COE Programme, International Conference 2007, M. Amano, M. Ogu-
ra & M. Ohkado (eds). Bern: Peter Lang.
Markus, M. & Heuberger, R. 2007. The architecture of Joseph Wright’s English Dialect Diction-
ary: Preparing the computerised version. International Journal of Lexicography 20: 355–368.
DOI: 10.1093/ijl/ecm019
Markus, M., Upton, C. & Heuberger, R. (eds). 2010. Joseph Wright’s English Dialect Dictionary
and Beyond: Studies in Late Modern English Dialectology. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Mittendorf, I. & Poppe, E. 2000. Celtic contacts of the English progressive. In The Celtic Eng-
lishes, H.L. Tristram (ed.), 117–145. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Mossé, F. 1925. Le renouvellement de l’aspect en germanique, Mélanges Linguistiques Offerts à
M.J. Venryes, 309–319.
Mossé, F. 1938. Histoire de la forme périphrastique être + participe présent en germanique, Vols.
I-II. Paris: Librairie C. Klincksieck.
Mossé, F. 1952. A Handbook of Middle English, trans. by James A. Walker. Baltimore MD: Johns
Hopkins Press.
Nehls, D. 1974. Synchron-diachrone Untersuchungen zur Expanded Form im Englischen. Eine
struktural-funktioanle Analyse. München: Hueber.
Nickel, G. 1966. Die expanded form im Altenglischen. Vorkommen; Funktion und Herkunft der
Umschreibung beon/wesan, + Partizip Präsens [Kieler Beiträge zur Anglistik und Ameri-
kanistik 3]. Neumünster: Karl Wachholtz.
Nickel, G. 1974. Zur Entstehung der expanded form im Altenglischen. Schopf: 321–355. (= repr.
of Nickel 1966: 268–300).
Núñez Pertejo, P. 1996. On the origin and history of the English prepositional type A-Hunting:
A corpus-based study. Revista Alicantina de Estudios Ingleses 9: 105–117.
Núñez Pertejo, P. 2004. The Progressive in the History of English with Special Reference to the
Early Modern English Period: A Corpus-based Study. Munich: Lincom.
Römer, U. 2005. Progressives, Patterns, Pedagogy. A Corpus-driven Approach to English Progres-
sive forms, Functions, Contexts and Didactics [Studies in Corpus Linguistics 18]. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/scl.18
Salvi, G. 2011. Morphosyntactic persistence. In The Cambridge History of the Romance Lan-
guages, M. Maiden, J.C. Smith & A. Ledgeway (eds), 318–381. Cambridge: CUP.
Scheffer, J. 1975. The Progressive in English. Amsterdam: North Holland.
Schlüter, J. 2005. Rhythmic Grammar. The Influence of Rhythm on Grammatical Variation and
Change in English [Topics in English Linguistics 46]. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI:
10.1515/9783110219265
Schopf, A. (ed.). 1974. Der englische Aspekt. Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft.
Smith, K.A. 2007. The development of the English progressive. Journal of Germanic Linguistics
19: 205–241. DOI: 10.1017/S1470542707000098
Smitterberg, E. 2005. The Progressive in 19th-Century English. A Process of Integration. Amster-
dam: Rodopi.
Strang, B. 1982. Some aspects of the history of the be + ing construction. In Language Form and
Linguistic Variation, Papers Dedicated to Angus McIntosh[Current Issues in Linguistic Theory
15],, J. Anderson (ed.), 427–474. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/cilt.15.22str
Tajima, M. 1985. The Syntactic Development of the Gerund in Middle English. Tokyo: Nan’un-do.
van der Gaaf, W. 1930. Some notes on the history of the progressive form. Neophilologus 15: 1–
215. (= repr. Schopf (ed.) 1974: 356–276)
	 Manfred Markus
Visser, F.T. 1963. An Historical Syntax of the English Language. Leiden: Brill.
Wischer, I. 2006. Grammaticalisation and language contact in the history of English. The evolu-
tion of the progressive form. In Medieval English and its Heritage: Structure, Meaning and
Mechanisms of Change. Papers given at the 13th International Conference on English His-
torical Linguistics (ICEHL), University of Vienna from 24 -28 August 2004, N. Ritt, H.
Schendl, C. Dalton-Puffer & D. Kastovsky (eds), 165–187. Bern: Peter Lang.
Wright, J. 1898–1905. The English Dialect Dictionary. Oxford: Henry Frowde.
Ziegeler, D. 2006. Interfaces with English Aspect. Diachronic and Empirical Studies [Studies in
Language Companion Series 82]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.82
The present perfect and the preterite in Late
Modern and Contemporary English
A longitudinal look
Johan Elsness
University of Oslo
In this article I examine a wide selection of language corpora, most of which
have only recently become available, to shed light on the development of the two
main verb forms used to refer to past time in English: the present perfect and
the preterite. It has been claimed that the development of the present perfect
in English runs counter to that observable in many other languages, including
German and French, where this verb form continues to expand, at the expense
of the preterite. The main conclusion is that the new corpus evidence confirms
the assumption of a special development in English, the present perfect having
been in decline since around 1800, in both AmE and BrE, although a somewhat
varied picture emerges in the present-day language.
Keywords: present perfect, preterite, American English, British English, Late
Modern English, Contemporary English
1.	 Introduction
Verbal constructions which may be recognised as perfects can be traced all the
way back to Old English. An early example is
	 (1)	 For ðæm we habbað nu ægðer forlæten ge ðone welan ge ðone wisdom, ... .
	 	 (“On the State of Learning in England”, cited from Whitelock 1967: 6)
		 ‘Therefore we have now lost both the wealth and the wisdom ... .’
In the early stages the word order might vary, the past participle sometimes being
postposed to the object noun phrase (as in a present-day construction like “We
have them captured”). The past participle could also be inflected for number and
case in accordance with the object. Even if a wide definition of the perfect is ad-
opted, allowing for variation in both word order and inflection, such perfect
	 Johan Elsness
forms were few and far between in Old English. Slowly but surely their frequency
increased, and they also became more varied, soon appearing even in intransitive
clause patterns, for example. For a long time, however, an alternative construc-
tion with a BE verb as auxiliary was common in intransitive clause patterns, espe-
cially with so-called mutative verbs. The BE perfect was productive well into the
Modern English period, although Elsness (1997: 271–272) recorded a clear pre-
dominance of the HAVE perfect even in intransitive clauses from early Modern
English onwards.1
Elsness (1997) (see also Elsness 2009a and b) reported the results of an inves-
tigation of a corpus made up of texts mostly concentrated in 50-year periods
spread across 200-year intervals from Old English to Present-Day English. In
Figure 1 overall frequencies are set out of the present perfect as a percentage of all
past-referring verb forms. For the last two periods distinguished, 1750–1800 and
the present day (i.e., the latter half of the 20th century), figures are given for Amer-
ican as well as for British English. The underlying material consisted of c. 1,000
perfect and/or preterite verb forms recorded in each of the historical periods (sep-
arately for AmE and BrE in the period 1750–1800), and c. 3,400 forms from Pres-
ent-Day English (AmE and BrE combined).2
The present perfect in the history of English
0%
OldEng EMidEng 1350–1400 1550–1600 1750–1800 PresDay
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
BrE
AmE
Figure 1.  The present perfect as a proportion of all past-referring verb forms
in the history of English. HAVE perfects, active and passive. Progressive forms not
included. From Elsness (1997).
1.	 The loss of the BE perfect sets Present-Day English apart from many other Germanic lan-
guages, including German, Dutch and the Scandinavian languages, and also from French and
other Romance languages, where the BE perfect continues to be an alternative, either optional
or mandatory, particularly with mutative verbs. The BE perfect survives in certain fossilised
English expressions, especially BE gone.
2.	 For a complete survey of the texts making up this corpus material, see Elsness (1997),
Appendices II and III (pp. 402–427).
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
It can be seen that while there was a steady increase in the frequency of the present
perfect from its earliest beginnings in Old English up until early Modern English,
this increase levels off in Modern English and even shows a marked decrease over
the past 200 years, especially in the AmE material examined.
2.	 Variation in Modern English
Clearly, a corpus comparison extending over more than 1,000 years is not unprob-
lematic, one type of problem being linked to the obvious difficulties involved in
identifying similar text categories in language material from such vastly different
periods. Some of the problems are at least reduced if the material investigated is
broken down into particular text categories and the comparison is limited to a
shorter span of time. In Figure 2 results are given separately for five text categories
which were distinguished in the present-day material and also at least in the im-
mediately preceding period, in most cases extending back to early Modern English
(and in one case even into Middle English): news reports from newspapers, social
letters, fiction – divided into narrative and direct speech – and drama. The nu-
merical chart included in Figure 2 gives the number of present-perfect forms
recorded in each case (before the slash), followed by the total number of past-re-
ferring perfect and/or preterite verb forms (after the slash).
It will be seen from Figure 2 that in the period from 1750–1800 to the present
day the proportion of present-perfect forms goes down in four of the five text cat-
egories distinguished, although the decrease is very slight in the case of social let-
ters and the direct speech of fiction. For drama texts and the narrative passages of
fiction the decrease is distinct, and statistically significant at the 1% level in both
cases.3 The one text category which displays an increase from 1750–1800 to the
present day in the proportion of present-perfect forms is Press/news. This increase
is not, however, statistically significant even at the 5% level.4 If it is assumed that
the increase is nevertheless real, this can be explained from the drastic changes
that news reporting has seen since the 18th century: the news reports printed in
newspapers 200 years ago were often focused on events located at a fairly distant
past time; with the invention of the telegraph and the more recent electronic revo-
lution the focus has shifted to a much closer past time even in the news reports
appearing in the printed media. That is a temporal environment which favours the
use of the present perfect to a larger extent than the more distant past does.
3.	 The variation was tested for statistical significance by means of the Chi-square test applied
to the recorded frequencies of the present perfect and the total of past-referring verb forms:
fiction/narrative: χ²= 9.8513, p≤0.01; drama: χ²= 9.6371, p≤0.01.
4.	 χ²= 2.5050
	 Johan Elsness
History of the present perfect in BrE text categories
0%
1350–1400 1550–1600 1750–1800 PresDay
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
Press/news
Letters/social
Fiction/narr 7/197
10/90
5/201
16/70
55/219
32/187
12/101
4/87
3/12
47/159
101/602
56/287
0/262
34/139
31/201
Fiction/dirsp
Drama
Figure 2.  The present perfect as a proportion of all past-referring verb forms in the his-
tory of (British) English distinguished according to text category. HAVE perfects, active
and passive. Progressive forms not included. Present perfect (before slash)/all past-refer-
ring verbs (after slash).
The results reported so far, based on the material first used for Elsness (1997), are
consonant with an assumption that the present perfect is in decline in contempo-
rary English. If this is true, it makes sense to look for uses of the present perfect in
earlier Modern English which would seem unlikely to occur in the present-day
language. The following examples are all from Visser (1973: 2197):
	 (2)	 I have delivered it an hour since.
		 (Shakespeare, All’s well that ends well, 1601)
	 (3)	 ... which I have forgot to set down in my Journal yesterday.
		 (Pepys’ Diary, 1669)
	 (4)	 The Englishman ... has murdered young Halbert ... yesterday morning.
		 (Scott, Monastery, 1820)
	 (5)	 I have been to Richmond last Sunday. (Galsworthy, In Chancery, 1920)
What is common to all these examples is that the present perfect is used in combi-
nation with clear specifications of past time, in apparent breach of the rule barring
such combinations in Present-Day English.
This rule is not absolute, however. Some writers have even claimed that a
spread of the present perfect is traceable in the present-day language to construc-
tions where there is indeed a clear specification of past time. Trudgill (1984: 42)
suggests that the rules governing the use of the present perfect are changing some-
what in standard English in England, adducing examples such as (6) and (7):
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
	 (6)	 I’ve seen him last year. (Trudgill 1984: 42)
	 (7)	 He’s done it two days ago. (Trudgill 1984: 42)
Cotte (1987: 91) also notes similar occurrences in the present-day language, one of
them being:
	 (8)	 Well, everybody’s got to make their own decisions, as I’ve said yesterday
... . (Interview with Lord Brittain on BBC Radio 4, 1983)(Cotte 1987: 91)
Other writers have also noted similar examples from Present-Day English of the
present perfect combining with clear specifications of past time:
	 (9)	 Police confirm that at 16.30 hours yesterday the body of Ivan Jepp has
been located. (News, Perth) (Engel and Ritz 2000: 130)
	 (10)	 Sanctions have been imposed by the UN thirteen years ago.
(Radio New Zealand news, 1979) (Bauer 1989: 71)
	 (11)	 Some of us have been to New York years ago to see how they do it. (Simon
Hughes, Liberal Democrat MP, in BBC News at Ten interview)
		 (Miller 2004a: 323; also cited in Miller 2004b)
	 (12)	 Anyway [Pause] three people have phoned yesterday, we had two phone
calls yesterday, in the morning [Pause] (BNC Spoken)
		 (Elsness 2009b: 106)
(9) and some of the other cases reported in Engel and Ritz (2000) might suggest
that this use of the present perfect is a characteristic of policemen’s English, at least
in Australia. Walker (2008), who investigated a BrE sports corpus, suggests that a
“footballer’s perfect” may be developing, likewise characterised by a liberal combi-
nation of the present perfect with past-time specification.5 Walker asks whether this
may be indicative of the future development of the English language as a whole.
We notice that several of the examples quoted and the uses reported are from
spoken sources, where attention is often less focused on the strict rules of the
grammar than in many kinds of written language, and where speakers do not have
the same opportunity to correct language usage perceived as incorrect, or at least
infelicitous. Example (12) is noteworthy in this respect: here the speaker seems to
register a correction in mid-sentence, switching from the initial present-perfect
verb to the preterite tense in the second half of the sentence, after the temporal
specification has been given (yesterday). It also seems to be the case that examples
of this type are often mentioned in the literature precisely because they draw atten-
tion to themselves, as constructions not fully established as acceptable English.
They are sometimes described as typical of (certain types of) spoken language.
5.	 I am grateful to an anonymous reviewer for bringing this reference to my attention.
	 Johan Elsness
Noting this apparently new perfect usage in different national varieties of
English, Engel (2002: 258) adds that “we must concede that, on a global scale, this
tendency would appear to be weaker than the opposing one (the expansion of the
[preterite]) led by American English”. Bauer (1994), in his treatment of New
Zealand English (NZE), also deals with the distribution between the present per-
fect and the preterite verb forms. He does not note any difference between stan-
dard BrE and standard NZE, but includes “generalization of the perfect to simple
past contexts” in a list of features which are said to be characteristic of non-stan-
dard NZE (Bauer 1994: 400–401). In a similar vein, Hundt (1998: 74–75) states
that if “the perfect is at all current in past contexts in NZE, it is probably a develop-
ment which has not yet affected the written medium”.
In this article we shall address the question of what direction the development
of the present perfect, often in competition with the preterite, is taking in a longer
temporal perspective. We shall do so by looking at some of the wider selection of
corpus material which is now available for the study of the development of English
over the last couple of centuries.
3.	 Corpus evidence from Late Modern and Contemporary English
3.1	 The Brown quartet of corpora
We begin with the fairly recent past, as represented by the so-called Brown quartet
of corpora: Brown and LOB, each consisting of c. 1,000,000 words of printed lan-
guage from 1961, from AmE and BrE, respectively; and the Freiburg updates of
these from a generation later, Frown (AmE 1992) and FLOB (BrE 1991). Figure 3
sets out the frequencies per million words (pmw) for the present perfect of lexical
verbs for each corpus as a whole (the right-hand set of columns), and for each of
the macro text categories that these corpora are commonly divided into: Press
(text categories A-C), General Prose (D-H), Learned (J) and Fiction (K-R). The
results were collected from the tagged edition of each corpus.6 The results pre-
sented in Figure 3 are those for occurrences of the present perfect without any
intervening item between the auxiliary and the main verb.7
6.	 Comparison across the tagged editions of different corpora does present certain problems,
even if the same tagging system is used, because of different levels of post-editing, etc. See
Hinrichs et al. (2007). It was assumed that such difficulties did not seriously distort the com-
parison between the corpora. I am grateful to Lars Hinrichs and Christian Mair for giving me
access to the C8 tagged versions of FLOB and Frown, and to Geoffrey Leech for letting me use
the C8 tagged LOB and Brown.
7.	 The search string consisted of any present-tense form of the auxiliary HAVE immediately
followed by the past participle of any lexical verb, and there was no post-editing. Searches were
also run allowing for one or two intervening items between the perfect auxiliary and the main,
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
The present perfect of lexical verbs in the Brown quartet pmw
0
A-C D-H J K-R All
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Brown
Frown
LOB
2590.91
2948.86
3210.23
2892.05
2131.07
2092.23
1995.15
1847.09
1462.50
1581.25
1281.25
1587.50
591.27
1158.79
1043.65
968.25
1717
1926
1855
1768
FLOB
Figure 3.  Frequencies per million words of the present perfect of lexical verbs
in macro-categories of the Brown quartet of corpora: A–C (Press), D–H (General Prose),
J (Learned) and K–R (Fiction).
Figure 3 shows that for one thing there is a marked difference in the frequency of
the present perfect between the macro-categories distinguished: the Press texts
come out on top, while Fiction displays the lowest frequencies. This must be con-
nected with the fact that the preterite, rather than the present (including the pres-
ent perfect), is the typical narrative tense of fiction, while newspaper texts are more
often orientated towards the present time field. The assumption that the present
perfect is more frequent in BrE is also confirmed in most cases.
Our focus will continue to be on the diachronic dimension. Here it can be
seen that on both the AmE (Brown – Frown) and the BrE side (LOB – FLOB)
there is a clear overall increase in the frequency of the present perfect. The picture
becomes a little more varied with some of the macro-categories: the recorded
frequency goes down in BrE Press and AmE General Prose. In all other cases the
frequency increases, however. This could be taken to mean that in the latter half
of the 20th century the present perfect is bouncing back (as suggested e.g. by
Hundt & Smith 2009), a development which in that case might well be continuing
into the 21st century.
lexical verb. The overall tendencies remained largely the same. Allowing for at least one inter-
vening item has the advantage that many cases of the perfect with an intervening adverbial
element will be captured (I have often seen). A disadvantage, however, is that many negative,
interrogative and passive constructions will also be included (has not seen, have you seen?, has
been seen), while the preterite of lexical verbs does not occur in those constructions (cf. did not
see, did you see?, was seen).
	 Johan Elsness
Major verb forms in the Brown quartet
0
Brown Frown LOB FLOB
20000
40000
60000
80000
100000
120000
140000
160000
180000
200000
Non-finite
Modal
Preterite
77086
40380
46171
11939
72900
46116
43723
12492
80242
42218
45838
12809
78332
41960
44557
13574
Present
Figure 4.  Major classification of all verbs in the Brown quartet of corpora: non-finite,
modal, and preterite and present tenses of all non-modal verbs. Absolute frequencies.
We need to take a closer look at occurrences in the Brown quartet of corpora. In
Figure 4 all verbs occurring in each of the four corpora are broken down into four
major categories: non-finite, modal, and the preterite and present tenses of all
non-modal verbs.8
In the case of AmE there can be seen to be quite a marked shift in the distribu-
tion between the two tenses of non-modal verbs: the frequency of the preterite
decreases (by just over five per cent) from Brown to Frown, while the present tense
goes up (by more than fourteen per cent). The recorded figures mean that in AmE
the ratio between the present tense and the preterite increases from 0.8746 (Brown)
to 1.0547 (Frown).
In BrE most verb forms go down, only modals bucking the trend. Even here,
however, there is a slight increase in the ratio between the present and the preterite
tenses, from 0.9210 (LOB) to 0.9417 (FLOB); in other words, the preterite de-
creases more than the present tense. Another noteworthy feature of the BrE results
is that the overall frequency for all verb forms combined goes down from 181,107
8.	 This is a classification of individual verbs (based on the tagged edition of each corpus), so
that a simple present perfect construction (such as have seen) would count as one present tense
form (the auxiliary) and one non-finite form (the past-participial main verb).
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
in LOB to 178,423 in FLOB, a decrease of some 1.5 per cent. The underlying figures
reveal a corresponding increase in the frequency of nouns from LOB to FLOB.9
Since the present perfect thrives especially in present-tense contexts, while the
preterite can be assumed to be particularly frequent in the company of other pret-
erite forms (cf. Elsness 1997: 167–175), any link between the distribution of the
present perfect and the preterite and that of the present tense and the preterite
tense in general is of particular relevance to our concern in this paper. Ratios be-
tween the present perfect and the preterite are set out in Figure 5, those between
the present tense and the preterite tense can be studied in Figure 6.
It can now be seen that there is indeed a link between the two ratios. As shown
by Figure 5, the ratio for the present perfect against the preterite goes up in BrE
General Prose, AmE and BrE Learned, and AmE and BrE Fiction. Each of those
cases is accompanied by a fairly marked increase also in the much higher present
tense/preterite tense ratio. The recorded increase in the proportion of present-
perfect forms from 1961 to 1991/2 can thus be seen as part of the general differ-
ence in temporal orientation between the early and the later corpora from the
Brown quartet.
Lexical verbs in the Brown quartet: ratios present perfect/preterite
0.00
A-C D-H J K-R
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
0.18
Brown
Frown
LOB
0.1233
0.1476
0.1778
0.1222
0.1185
0.1245
0.1204
0.0991
0.1438
0.1680
0.1504
0.1733
0.0111
0.0234
0.0199
0.0188
FLOB
Figure 5.  Ratios between the present perfect and the preterite of lexical verbs, distributed
across macro text categories: A–C (Press), D–H (General Prose), J (Learned) and K–R
(Fiction). Active and non-progressive verbs only.
9.	 This difference between LOB and FLOB is noted also by Hinrichs et al. (2007) and Mair
et al. (2002), leading the latter to speculate that English may be succumbing to ‘noun disease’.
For evidence of the increased frequencies of various types of noun phrase structures in a lon-
ger perspective, see Biber and Clark (2002), who report an investigation of the ARCHER
Corpus (1650–1990). I am grateful to an anonymous reviewer for bringing this reference to
my attention.
	 Johan Elsness
Lexical verbs in the Brown quartet: ratios present/preterite tenses
0.0
A-C D-H J K-R
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Brown
Frown
LOB
0.9640
0.9366
0.9050
0.9652
1.1999
1.0100
0.9594
1.2104
2.0172
2.1009
1.8811
2.6835
0.2749
0.2668
0.2158
0.3300
FLOB
Figure 6.  Ratios between the present and the preterite tenses of lexical verbs, distributed
across macro text categories: A–C (Press), D–H (General Prose), J (Learned) and K–R
(Fiction). Active, non-progressive verbs only.
This sheds interesting light on the results from Figure 3 above: in some cases the
results from that table suggested an increase in the frequency of the present perfect
of lexical verbs in the second half of the 20th century; it may now seem as if that
apparent development can be explained as being part of a more general difference in
temporal orientation between the early and the late corpora of the Brown quartet.
3.2	 The Corpus of Late Modern English Texts (Extended Version)
We shall widen our temporal horizon, first by taking in a BrE corpus extending
from 1710 to 1920. That is the Corpus of Late Modern English Texts (Extended
Version), shortened to CLMET(EV). This corpus is divided into three periods of
70 years each: 1710–1780, 1780–1850 and 1850–1920. The whole corpus totals c.
15 million words, with some variation in the size of each sub-period.10
The CLMET is an untagged corpus, and we shall confine ourselves to the re-
sults of a few rather crude searches of some major lexical items in this corpus.
Figure 7 gives the normalised frequencies of the combined preterite forms was and
were.11 The two forms can be seen to display a very clear increase in frequency in
10.	 For details about the composition of this corpus, see http://perswww.kuleuven.
be/~u0044428/. The corpus was compiled by Hendrik De Smet of the University of Leuven.
11.	 Figure 7 and the following figures only give the frequencies of the lexical items specified.
Thus, in the case of was, the negative combination wasn’t is not included. The variation in the
forms of some of the searched items in earlier stages of the language is also ignored. For example,
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
was+were in CLMET pmw
10691.0
13963.5
15952.6
1710–1780
1780–1850
1850–1920
Figure 7.  Combined occurrences of was + were in the three subperiods of the Corpus
of Late Modern English Texts, normalised to frequencies per million words.
the course of the time span covered by this corpus. From the first to the last sub-
period the increase is as high as 50 per cent.
Some further preterite forms were also tested. Figure 8 shows the normalised
frequencies in each of the three sub-periods of the CLMET of some high-frequen-
cy verbs with distinct preterite/past-participial forms (which facilitated the elec-
tronic searches in the untagged corpus): did, saw, went and came.12 It can be seen
that with each and every one of these verbs there is again a clear and consistent
increase in frequency across the CLMET. From the first to the last sub-period all
the four verbs increase by more than fifty per cent. Indeed, two – went and came
– more than double their frequencies.
Since our concern is the distribution between the preterite and the present
perfect, we shall also try to get some impression of the frequencies of the latter
verb form in this corpus. Recording exact frequencies of the present perfect is a
challenge, especially in an untagged corpus. Figure 9 sets out the normalised fre-
quencies of some potential perfect forms across the three sub-periods of the same
corpus. The search strings were the various present-tense forms of HAVE – have
(which may also act as the infinitive, and even imperative), has, hast and hath –
immediately followed by the past participles of the respective verbs.
There are several complications:
1.	 The search strings with *ed were intended to capture the perfect of regular verbs,
which they did, but of course all other forms in -ed occurring after the present
tense of HAVE would also be included (e.g. have/has unwanted aspirations).
Such forms turned out to be few and far between, however, and this problem
can thus be assumed to have had only a negligible impact on overall results.
in the first period of the CLMET 13 occurrences of the form wast (in thou wast) were recorded.
However, these were considered to be negligible in comparison with the main form was, which
occurs 24,749 times in this period (raw figures).
12.	 It is true that one of these verbal forms, saw, has a nominal homograph which is irrelevant
to our searches. It was assumed, however, that this homograph would be sufficiently infrequent
not to distort our diachronic comparison of the preterite verb form.
	 Johan Elsness
2.	 A more serious problem is that the search strings with have capture not only
the present perfect but also the perfect infinitive, which is a frequent form in
many kinds of text, especially in combination with modal auxiliaries (e.g. may
have done). Thus, the results for search strings including have show occur-
rences of the present perfect and the perfect infinitive combined.
3.	 As before, occurrences of the present perfect with adverbial or other items oc-
curring between the auxiliary and the main verb were excluded from these
searches. This facilitated the searches, and it also had its advantages for any
comparison with the development of preterite verb forms (see footnote 7).
The preterite in CLMET pmw
0
did came saw went
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1710–1780
1780–1850
1850–1920
845.1
1444.3
1182.7
501.4
1047.6
656.2
394.1
609.6
489.9
395.0
841.5
510.7
Figure 8.  Occurrences of the preterite of some high-frequency verbs in the three
sub-periods of the Corpus of Late Modern English Texts, normalised to frequencies per
million words.
The perfect in CLMET pmw
0
BE COME GO SEE
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
1710–1780
1780–1850
1850–1920
1231.56
1115.88
1241.79
17.12
86.38
38.61
DO
140.90
144.76
135.22
26.99
74.86
32.84
95.14
88.46
103.77
*ed
1699.36
1367.34
1706.50
Figure 9.  Occurrences of some potential perfect forms in the three sub-periods of the
Corpus of Late Modern English Texts: sums of have, has, hast and hath immediately followed
by the past participles of respective verbs, normalised to frequencies per million words.
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
It will be seen that the results set out in Figure 9 are less clear-cut than those for the
preterite, considered above.13 The most frequent forms examined, BE and those
covered by the search string “*ed”, show a slight increase from the first to the sec-
ond period, and then fall back markedly in the third period. SEE shows a similar
trend. The frequency of DO varies only very slightly, while the motion verbs,
COME and GO, are both remarkable for their very steep rises, but then these two
verbs also displayed very sharp rises when we looked at the preterite.
If we try to focus on the big picture, giving the most weight to the most numerous
verbs, a reasonable reading of the results set out in Figure 9 seems to be that the pe-
riod around 1800 comes across as the time when the present perfect started to de-
cline in (British) English. If the above results for preterite verb forms are brought into
the comparison (see Figure 7 and Figure 8), the evidence becomes even stronger for
the conclusion that this period was a turning point in the development of the present
perfect/preterite distribution, at least as far as the kind of BrE text material repre-
sented by the CLMET is concerned.14 These results tally well with the findings first
reported in Elsness (1997), which identified the period 1750–1800 as the high point
of the frequency of the present perfect in English (see above, Figure 1 and Figure 2).
3.3	 The Corpus of Contemporary American English
We shall turn to American English, first by looking at results from the Corpus of
Contemporary American English (COCA), a corpus which at the time when the
analysis was performed stood at 425 million words and covered the period from
1990 to 2011. Again the figures presented are those for constructions without any
intervening items between the auxiliary and the main verb.15 A check of corre-
sponding constructions with one or even two intervening items revealed the same
tendencies, however.
13.	 In the comparison one needs to be aware of the special auxiliary status of BE and DO. Even
at the beginning of the period we are concerned with here, the use of DO support in negative
and interrogative constructions was well established, which can be assumed to boost the fre-
quency of this verb in the preterite but not in the present perfect.
14.	 Our investigation of the Corpus of Late Modern English Texts does not allow us to draw
any conclusion about the extent to which the distribution of these two verb forms is comple-
mentary. It seems doubtful whether the very marked rise in the frequency of the preterite that
we recorded can be accounted for exclusively by any corresponding fall in the frequency of the
present perfect, even if figures for all verbs combined were available.
15.	 The figures set out in Figure 10 result from adding up the results for the two search strings
‘[vh0] [vvn]’ and ‘[vhz] [vvn]’. The first search string represents occurrences of the uninflected
present-tense form of the auxiliary have followed by the past participle of lexical verbs, the sec-
ond represents occurrences of auxiliary has followed by the past participle of lexical verbs.
	 Johan Elsness
Figure 10 gives the results for the whole of COCA combined (right-hand set of
columns), and for each of the five text categories that COCA is divided into. It can be
seen that overall there is a clear and consistent decrease from period to period within
the 22 years covered by this corpus. The overall decrease is quite marked: from the
first to the last period the frequency of the present perfect goes down by as much as
12 per cent overall. The period-by-period decrease holds also when results are broken
down into the five text categories, although the picture is a little more varied in some
of those cases. The highest frequencies were again recorded for the category of Spo-
ken language, which to a larger extent than the other text categories can be assumed
to be orientated towards the present time-sphere. In fact, the frequencies recorded for
that category are more than twice as high as those for any of the other text catego-
ries.16 In the Spoken category the decrease is clear and consistent from each period to
the next. In the remaining text categories, with lower frequencies, developments are
less consistent from each period to the next. What is common to all text categories,
however, is that the frequency of the present perfect in each of the periods 2005–2009
and 2010–2011 is lower than for both 1995–1999 and 2000–2004.17 All this can be
taken as support for the assumption that the frequency of the present perfect has de-
creased during the last couple of decades up to the present day, at least in AmE.
To see if the development of the present perfect is matched by any corresponding,
converse development of the preterite, we shall take a look at the frequencies re-
corded in COCA even for the latter verb form. They can be studied in Figure 11.18
The development of the preterite can be seen not to display any very clear tendency.
For COCA as a whole, and for the text categories Spoken, Fiction and Academic,
there is a general increase, at least in the sense that the preterite frequency is higher in
the last than in the first period. For both Magazine and Newspaper, period-to-period
changes are small, and the frequency of the preterite is in fact slightly lower in the last
than in the first period of COCA. In any case we must not lose sight of the basic fact
that frequencies of the present perfect are low by comparison with those of the pret-
erite, very roughly on a scale of 1 to 10 overall. Comparison between Figure 10 and
Figure 11 nevertheless suggests that the distribution of the two verb forms is to some
extent complementary, most notably in the case of overall results and those for Spo-
ken, Fiction and Academic. The very marked variation between text categories in the
16.	 The Spoken category of COCA is composed exclusively of public language, i.e. language
from radio and television broadcasts. This text category thus differs from the Spoken category of
the British National Corpus, for example.
17.	 Normalised frequencies for each period/text category were calculated manually, because of
a bug in the COCA software which affected such calculations when the corpus was filtered for
both text category and time period simultaneously.
18.	 Figures for the preterite are those yielded by a search on the part-of-speech tag [vvd].
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
frequencies of both the present perfect and the preterite confirms that their distribu-
tion is heavily dependent on the general temporal orientation of a text, not least
whether present- or past-time orientation predominates. Variation of this type may
of course also lead to differences in their distribution over time: for example, even
small differences in the prevailing temporal orientation of fictional texts from differ-
ent periods may lead to differences in the present perfect/preterite distribution.
The present perfect of lexical verbs in COCA pmw
0
Spoken Fiction Magazine Academic
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
1990–1994
1995–1999
2000–2004
3325.40
2777.79
3003.80
3029.49
1280.53
1170.73
1271.49
1302.76
1181.84
1105.15
1096.61
1135.17
Newspaper
1328.26
1315.78
1347.39
1332.24
1044.61
1018.43
1043.33
1048.65
All
2424.88
2205.68
2307.87
2340.00
2005–2009
2711.12 1073.21 1125.48 1248.28 918.25 2131.07
2010–2011
Figure 10.  The present perfect of lexical verbs in the Corpus of Contemporary American
English, normalised to frequencies per million words.
The preterite of lexical verbs in COCA pmw
0
Spoken Fiction Magazine Academic
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
35000
40000
45000
50000
1990–1994
1995–1999
2000–2004
14836.09
16856.96
15839.51
15354.64
43029.80
43235.59
40673.94
41680.79
18390.87
17167.05
17978.96
18308.05
Newspaper
22772.18
22599.14
23097.07
22789.62
12676.89
14047.92
13673.17
12844.02
All
22198.33
22790.66
22052.17
22909.76
2005–2009
16798.03 46615.61 17365.16 22227.74 14088.79 23414.31
2010–2011
Figure 11.  The preterite of lexical verbs in the Corpus of Contemporary American
English, normalised to frequencies per million words.
	 Johan Elsness
3.4	 The Corpus of Historical American English
The last corpus we shall consider is the Corpus of Historical American English
(COHA), a kind of sister corpus of COCA. COHA consists of a total of 406 million
words distributed across the twenty decades making up the last two centuries, i.e.
beginning with the 1810s and ending with the 2000s. This corpus is divided into
four text categories: Fiction, Popular magazines, Newspapers and Non-fiction
books. However, the composition of this corpus in terms of the four text categories
varies a great deal from decade to decade, especially in the early stages. The News-
paper category is not represented at all in the first five decades, then makes up 1.5
per cent of the total in the 1860s, 5 ­
– 6 per cent in each decade from the 1870s to
the 1910s, and 14 – 16 per cent from then onwards. The total number of words also
varies considerably: In the first decade it is a little less than 1.2 million, as against
nearly 7 million in the 1820s and a little less than 14 million in the 1830s. From the
1880s onwards the number of words in each decade is more than 20 million, reach-
ing almost 30 million in the 2000s. Fiction is the predominant category through-
out, making up around 50 per cent of the total in each decade.19
Since text category can be assumed to be a major conditioning factor for the
distribution of our two verb forms, this variation in the composition of COHA
might disturb the diachronic comparison. We shall therefore focus our attention
on results for the predominant text category, that of Fiction. Normalised frequen-
cies for the present perfect in each decade are given in Figure 12.20 It can be seen
that the main trend is one of a pretty clear decline through the period covered by
COHA. There is some variation, however, with a temporary rise round the end of
the 19th and the beginning of the 20th centuries, and further slight rises in the
1950s and 1970s. The long-term trend nevertheless seems clear enough. The high-
est frequency was recorded for the first decade, the 1810s, the lowest frequency for
the last decade, the 2000s. Between these two end-points the normalised frequen-
cy of the present perfect of lexical verbs is reduced by as much as 60 per cent in the
Fiction section of COHA.
Figure 13, finally, gives the frequencies of the preterite of lexical verbs across the
20 decades covered by COHA, again limited to the Fiction category. One striking
result displayed by Figure 13 is the particularly low frequencies recorded in the
19.	 For a detailed survey of the composition of COHA, see <http://corpus.byu.edu/coha/help/
texts_e.asp>
20.	 The figures given for the present perfect are again those yielded by a search on the tags for
the perfect auxiliary and the past participle of the main verb without any intervening item. Even
in this case searches were also run allowing for one or two intervening items, revealing similar
tendencies.
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
The present perfect in COHA fiction pmw
0
1810s1820s1830s1840s1850s1860s1870s1880s1890s1900s1910s1920s1930s1940s1950s1960s1970s1980s1990s2000s
2790 2461 2214 2009 1944 1880 1815 1950
1970 1896 1927 1826 1530 1431 1482 1514
1417 1312 1251 1107
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ficiton
Figure 12.  The present perfect of lexical verbs in the Fiction section of the Corpus
of Historical American English, normalised to frequencies per million words.
very first decade, the 1810s. But since this decade is represented by a much smaller
number of texts than the other decades, the results are not quite so reliable as those
for the other decades. Even if the first decade is disregarded, the increase in the
frequency of the preterite is clear enough: from the 1820s to the 2000s this fre-
quency goes up by as much as 40 per cent. It is noteworthy, however, that most of
that increase occurred in the 19th century. Indeed, the preterite frequencies re-
corded for the 2000s are slightly lower than those for some of the decades in the
20th century, especially the 1940s and the 1990s. Hence the continuing decrease
over the past few decades in the frequency of the present perfect is not matched by
any similar increase for the preterite. But then there can be no question of viewing
the two verb forms as fully complementary, as seen from the fact that in the 1820s
the frequency of the present perfect is less than 8 per cent of that of the preterite,
falling to around 2.5 per cent in the 2000s; and the variation in the number of pres-
ent perfect forms is no more than 1,683 occurrences per million words from the
highest to the lowest level, as against more than 17,000 in the case of the preterite
(even when the first decade is disregarded for that verb form).21
The results from the Fiction category of COHA confirm that the present per-
fect has declined sharply in AmE in the course of the past two centuries. This is in
agreement with the findings from Elsness (1997). It is also noteworthy that the
21.	 The underlying figures show a somewhat less lopsided distribution of the two verb forms for all
text categories combined, although even here the predominance of the preterite is overwhelming.
The difference is due above all to the fact that the preterite is the chief narrative tense of fiction.
	 Johan Elsness
The preterite in COHA fiction pmw
0
1810s1820s1830s1840s1850s1860s1870s1880s1890s1900s1910s1920s1930s1940s1950s1960s1970s1980s1990s2000s
11242 31197 25926 30956 33468 35297 37640 37074
34796 41585 41292 39862 43342 44617 43445 40543
41155 43829 44704 43532
5000
10000
15000
25000
20000
30000
35000
40000
45000
Ficiton
Figure 13.  The preterite of lexical verbs in the Fiction section of the Corpus of Historical
American English, normalised to frequencies per million words.
period covered by COHA starts at the time which we identified as the high point
of the present perfect in BrE when we analysed the CLMET above (see especially
Figure 7, Figure 8 and Figure 9 above). During the past two centuries the present
perfect seems to have declined in both varieties, although the decline may well
have been sharper in AmE.
4.	 Summary and attempted explanation
We have examined a fairly wide selection of corpora in our attempt to shed light
on the development of the present-perfect verb form and its main rival, the pret-
erite, in Late Modern and Contemporary English. It is clear that the semantic and
functional distinction between these two verb forms is far from being clear-cut in
all cases, which leaves considerable scope for variation. As one would expect,
therefore, the corpus evidence that we have unveiled is not entirely unambiguous.
And yet a fair, balanced conclusion from the corpus investigations reported in this
article appears to be that most of the evidence corroborates the assumption that
the present perfect is in decline in English, a decline which seems to be continuing
all the way up to the present day.
It is true that the so-called Brown quartet of corpora – Brown, Frown, LOB
and FLOB – at first seemed to point towards a possible resurgence of the present
perfect in the second half of the 20th century, a development which would bring
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
English into line with many other languages, including not least German and
French, where the present perfect displays a continuing growth, at the expense of
the preterite. However, when the comparison was widened to take in other verb
forms, and other word classes, it could be seen that the development of the present
perfect, and the distribution between that verb form and the preterite, were linked
to some more major differences between the various corpora of the Brown quartet.
Especially on the American side, there is a marked shift from the Brown (1961) to
the Frown (1992) corpus, in that present-tense verbs become more numerous, pret-
erite verbs less numerous. On the British side a more striking difference between the
LOB (1961) and FLOB (1991) corpora is that verbs generally become less frequent,
nouns gaining ground, and even here there is a slight increase in the ratio between
the present tense and the preterite tense. When seen in the light of such variations,
the apparent growth in the frequency of the present perfect is neutralised.
This is a useful reminder of the uncertainties attaching to corpus representa-
tiveness. What we have seen in this article is that all the other corpora examined
– the Corpus of Late Modern English Texts for earlier BrE (1710–1920), COCA
(1990–2011) and COHA (1810–2010) for AmE, each much bigger than the cor-
pora of the Brown quartet – point towards a fairly consistent decline in the
frequency of the present perfect in Late Modern (since around 1800) and Contem-
porary English. This decline has been accompanied by a strong but apparently less
even growth in the frequency of the preterite. It should be borne in mind, however,
that there can be no question of seeing the two verb forms as fully complementary:
the preterite has remained predominant throughout, and the total variation of the
present perfect is small by comparison with that of the preterite.
If one looks for explanations of why the development in English seems to be
running counter to that observable in many other languages, where the present
perfect is increasing in frequency in line with a more general tendency in Indo-
European languages for synthetic forms to be superseded by analytic ones
(see Zieglschmid 1930), the situation in English can be seen to be special for at
least two reasons:
1.	 In speech the auxiliary of the English present perfect is often reduced to just a
/s/ or a /z/ or a barely audible /v/, and the contracted forms of the auxiliary are
increasingly common even in the written language.
2.	 The expression of the past-participial main verb is identical with that of the
preterite in the case of all regular and quite a few irregular verbs, in both
speech and writing.
The combined effect of (1) and (2) is that the formal difference between the pres-
ent perfect and the preterite has been reduced to a level which may make the whole
distinction vulnerable, especially when one considers that the semantic/functional
	 Johan Elsness
difference between the two verb forms is also blurred in many cases.22 Even though
factor (2) would only directly affect regular and other verbs with identical forms
for the preterite and the past participle, it is not too difficult to imagine that, once
started, this process could easily make itself felt in the language system generally.
The results especially of our analysis of the corpora of the Brown quartet also
confirmed that the decline of the present perfect (assuming that it is a real, con-
tinuing, long-term decline) has progressed further in AmE than in BrE.23 Part of
the reason for that may be that the contracted form of the auxiliary is more com-
mon in AmE, making the formal difference between the two verb forms even less
distinct in that variety. Another factor which has been pointed to in attempts to
explain the AmE/BrE difference is that Irish English often deviates from BrE in the
use of the perfect and may have been especially influential in the US.24 It also
seems to be a fact that the levelling of the difference between the preterite and the
past participle has advanced further in AmE with verbs like mow, strive, shrink,
sing and spring: Americans are more likely than British speakers to use forms like
sung and shrunk in the preterite, which further reduces the formal difference be-
tween the present perfect and the preterite, although this is limited to a fairly small
set of verbs.
A more weighty factor may be that writing prescriptions have sometimes been
reported to be playing a greater role in Britain than in America (cf. Biber 1987),
and in Britain teachers and others may tend to see the present perfect as more
“correct” than the preterite in certain borderline cases, e.g. in combination with a
time adverbial like just. Especially in BrE such attitudes may have contributed to
impeding what seems to be the natural decline of the present perfect.
At the same time certain uses of the present perfect have been noted in the
present-day language which may seem to suggest a new tendency for this verb
to combine with past-time specification in a way that has not been common in
English. Whether it is a question of policemen’s perfect or footballers’ perfect,
or whether it is a somewhat more general tendency in spoken, colloquial
English, this does not as yet seem to be a major feature of the present perfect in
standard English.
An intriguing question which remains unanswered is to what extent any shift
in the distribution between the present perfect and the preterite is indicative of a
real change in the language system, or to what extent it merely reflects changes in
language usage, i.e. to what extent it is to be seen as a semantic or a pragmatic
22.	 See also Defromont (1973).
23.	 An early observation of this difference between AmE and BrE was made by Vanneck (1958).
See also Biber et al. (1999: 462–463).
24.	 See Harris (1991: 201–205) and Siemund (2004).
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
change. Even slight variations in general temporal orientation – for instance to-
wards a tendency to focus more on the present, or future, less on the past – might
have a notable impact on the distribution of the two verb forms. If a temporal re-
orientation in that direction were to take place – and our comparison between the
Brown/LOB and the Frown/FLOB corpora could be read as an indication of a
slight shift of this kind – it might lead to a somewhat more frequent use of the
present perfect, at the expense of the preterite, even if the two verb forms retained
their positions in the language system. It is reasonable to assume, however, that the
main factor behind the declining use of the present perfect in English is that the
rule blocking the combination of the present perfect with clear past-time specifiers
has been strengthened, as was suggested in Section 2 above; and also an increasing
tendency to select the preterite verb form in all those cases where a past temporal
orientation is only vaguely specified.25
Sources
Brown Corpus. 1 million words of written American English from 1961
Frown Corpus. Freiburg update of Brown. 1 million words of written American English from
1992
LOB Corpus. 1 million words of written British English from 1961
FLOB Corpus. Freiburg update of LOB. 1 million words of written British English from 1991
Corpus of Contemporary American English, COCA. Mark Davies (2008–). 425 million words,
1990–2011. <http://corpus.byu.edu/coca/>
Corpus of Historical American English, COHA. Mark Davies (2010–). 400 million words, 1810–
2009. <http://corpus.byu.edu/coha/>
Corpus of Late Modern English Texts (Extended Version), CLMET(EV). 15 million words of
British English 1710–1920. Available online, user-id and password from Hendrik De Smet
References
Bauer, L. 1989. The verb have in New Zealand English. English World-Wide 10: 69–83. DOI:
10.1075/eww.10.1.05bau
Bauer, L. 1994. English in New Zealand. In The Cambridge History of the English Language V.
English in Britain and overseas: Origins and development, R. Burchfield (ed.), 382–429.
Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CHOL9780521264785.009
Biber, D. 1987. A textual comparison of British and American writing. American Speech 62:
99–119. DOI: 10.2307/455273
25.	 I discuss this question further especially in Elsness (2009b).
	 Johan Elsness
Biber, D. & Clark, V. 2002. Historical shifts in modification patterns with complex noun phrase
structures: How long can you go without a verb? In English Historical Syntax and Morphol-
ogy: Selected Papers from 11 ICEHL, Santiago de Compostela, 7–11 September 2000, J. Perez-
Guerra, M.J. Lopez-Couso & T. Fanego (eds), 43–66. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S. & Finegan, E. 1999. Longman Grammar of Spoken
and Written English. London: Longman.
Cotte, P. 1987. Réflexions sur l’emploi des temps du passé en français et en anglais à la lumière
de deux évolutions récentes du système verbal de l’anglais. Contrastes: Revue de l’Association
pour le Développement des Études Contrastives 14–15: 89‑161.
Defromont, H.J. 1973. Les Constructions perfectives du verbe anglais contemporain: Etude com-
parée de l’aspect transcendant dans les systèmes verbaux anglais et français [Janua Linguar-
um, Series Practica 185]. The Hague: Mouton.
Elsness, J. 1997. The Perfect and the Preterite in Contemporary and Earlier English. Berlin: Mou-
ton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110810264
Elsness, J. 2009a. The present perfect and the preterite. In One Language, Two Grammars? Differ-
ences between British and American English, G. Rohdenburg & J. Schlüter (eds), 228–245.
Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511551970.013
Elsness, J. 2009b. The perfect and the preterite in Australian and New Zealand English. In Com-
parative Studies in Australian and New Zealand English: Grammar and Beyond, P. Peters, P.
Collins & A. Smith (eds), 89–114. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Engel, D.M. 2002. Radio talk: French and English perfects on air. Languages in Contrast 2: 255–
277. DOI: 10.1075/lic.2.2.07eng
Engel, D.M. & Ritz, M.-E. 2000. The use of the present perfect in Australian English. Australian
Journal of Linguistics 20: 119–140. DOI: 10.1080/07268600020006030
Harris, J. 1991. Conservatism versus substratal transfer in Irish English. In Dialects of English:
Studies in Grammatical Variation, P. Trudgill & J.K. Chambers (eds), 191–212. London:
Longman.
Hinrichs, L., Smith, N. & Waibel, B. 2007. The part-of-speech-tagged ‘Brown’ corpora. Depart-
ment of English, University of Freiburg.
Hundt, M. 1998. New Zealand English Grammar: Fact or Fiction? A Corpus-based Study in Mor-
phosyntactic Variation [Varieties of English around the World G23]. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins. DOI: 10.1075/veaw.g23
Hundt, M. & Smith, N. 2009. The present perfect in British and American English: Has there
been any change, recently? ICAME Journal 33: 45–63.
Mair, Chr., Hundt, M., Leech, G. & Smith, N. 2002. Short-term diachronic shifts in part-of-
speech frequencies. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 7: 245–264. DOI: 10.1075/
ijcl.7.2.05mai
Miller, J. 2004a. Problems for typology: Perfects and resultatives in spoken and non-standard
English and Russian. In Dialectology Meets Typology: Dialect Grammar from a Cross-lin-
guistic Perspective, B. Kortmann (ed.), 305–334. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Miller, J. 2004b. Perfect and resultative constructions in spoken and non-spoken English. In Up
and Down the Cline – The Nature of Grammaticalization [Typological Studies in Language
59], O. Fischer, M. Norde & H. Perridon (eds), 229–246. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/tsl.59.12mil
Siemund, P. 2004. Substrate, superstrate and universals: Perfect constructions in Irish English.
In Dialectology Meets Typology: Dialect Grammar from a Cross-linguistic Perspective, B. Ko-
rtmann (ed.), 401–434. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
	 The present perfect and the preterite: A longitudinal look	 
Trudgill, P. 1984. Standard English in England. In Language in the British Isles, P. Trudgill (ed.),
32–44. Cambridge: CUP.
Vanneck, G. 1958. The colloquial preterite in modern American English. Word 14: 237‑242.
Visser, F.T. 1973. An Historical Syntax of the English Language, III/2: Syntactical Units with Two
and with More Verbs. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Walker, J. 2008. The footballer’s perfect – are footballers leading the way? In The Linguistics of
Football, E. Lavric, G. Pisek, A. Skinner & W. Stadler (eds), 295–303. Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
Whitelock, D. (ed.) 1967. Sweet’s Anglo-Saxon Reader in Prose and Verse. Oxford: OUP.
Zieglschmid, A.J.F. 1930. Concerning the disappearance of the simple past in various Indo-Eu-
ropean languages. Philological Quarterly 9: 153–157.
can and be able to in nineteenth-century
Irish English
A case of ‘imperfect learning’?
Marije van Hattum
Liverpool Hope University
This paper discusses the status of can and be able to in nineteenth-century
Irish English in comparison to English English through means of a corpus
study of personal letters. Analysis of the data reveals that the use of be able
TO is conditioned by the combination of time reference and polarity in the
English English data but not in the Irish English data. Thus, the data suggest
that some writers of nineteenth-century Irish English failed to acquire the subtle
differences between can and be able to present in English English. I propose
that the increased use of be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English is the
result of imperfect learning through perceived similarity (cf. Thomason 2001
and De Smet 2012).
Keywords: Irish English, modal verbs, corpus linguistics, imperfect learning
1.	 Introduction
The English language was introduced into Ireland over 800 years ago, making Irish
English (IrE) the oldest variety of English outside Britain (Hickey 2007). Never-
theless, it was not until the middle of the nineteenth century that English became
the preferred language of more than two-thirds of the population. The plantations
of Ireland in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries brought speakers of many
different dialects of English to the country. Although many native speakers of Irish
could speak some form of English in those centuries, it was not until the middle of
the nineteenth century that the majority of native Irish speakers started to use
English in their daily life (Ó Cuív 1986). They learned from other Irish speakers
who spoke English as an L2 variety and through contact with English planters and
their employees. It was during this time that the foundations were laid for the
grammar of present-day IrE (Filppula 1999).
	 Marije van Hattum
The grammar of IrE has been researched extensively, both from a historical and
a present-day perspective (for an overview, see Hickey 2002). It is thus somewhat
surprising that little systematic work has been carried out on modal verbs in IrE,
especially considering the amount of attention the development of modal verbs in
English English (EngE) in general, and Standard English (StE) in particular, has
received.1 The aim of van Hattum (2012) was to lay the first stone towards filling
this gap with a morphosyntactic study of the nine core modal verbs and a semantic
study of modal verbs of possibility from the fourteenth to the twentieth centuries.
One of the main findings reveals a significant increase in the use of be able to (as
opposed to can) in IrE in participant-internal possibility contexts during the sec-
ond half of the nineteenth century in comparison to both EngE of the same period
and earlier periods of IrE. Participant-internal possibility refers to a participant’s
internal ability or capacity, as in example (1) where it is the internal ability of the
participant Boris that allows the proposition, get by with sleeping five hours a night,
to take place. In English, the participant is generaly the subject of the verb group
containing the modal expression (Van der Auwera & Plungian 1998). The high use
of be able to in IrE in comparison to EngE decreased again during the twentieth
century, and present-day English corpora showed few differences between IrE and
EngE with respect to the use of be able to and can in participant-internal possi-
bility contexts. In this paper, I argue that, although there does not seem to be much
difference in the use of can and be able to in present-day IrE and EngE, some
writers of nineteenth-century IrE failed to acquire the subtle differences between
these two modal constructions as a result of ‘imperfect learning’, which resulted in
an increased use of be able to relative to can during this period.
	 (1)	 Boris can get by with sleeping five hours a night.
		 (van der Auwera & Plungian 1998: 80)
This study will offer a corpus-based analysis of the proportional distribution of the
variants can and be able to in IrE personal letters in comparison to a corpus
of EngE letters. In particular, my paper aims to answer the following research
questions:
1.	 Some scholars have paid attention to some characteristic features of IrE concerning modal
verbs, such as the absence of a distinction between shall and will (Webster 1789; Fogg 1796;
Joyce 1910; Facchinetti 2000; Hickey 2007; McCafferty 2011), the use of may for might (Joyce
1910), the development of epistemic mustn’t in IrE (Kirk & Kallen 2006; Hickey 2007, 2009), the
contraction ‘ll not (Hickey 2007), the overuse of conditional would (Joyce 1910; Hickey 2007),
the double modal construction (Traugott 1972; Visser 1973; Nagle 1993; Fennell & Butters 1996;
Corrigan 2000; Hickey 2007; Corrigan 2011) and the be + to modal construction (Corrigan
2000). Hickey (2009) aims to discuss the formal and functional aspects of modal verbs in Irish
and in present-day English, but he does not discuss IrE.
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
–	 To what extent was the development of the modals can and be able to in IrE
similar to EngE?
–	 To what extent can the increased use of be able to in participant-internal
possibility contexts in IrE in the second half of the nineteenth century, as
found in van Hattum (2012), be explained by contact-induced language change
(cf. Thomason 2001)?
I will start with an overview of theoretical frameworks in situations of unguided
language shift, which will contextualise the linguistic changes ongoing in nine-
teenth-century Ireland (Section 2.1). This will be followed by a discussion of
research on be able to and can in present-day Standard English (Section 2.2)
and the expression of participant-internal possibility in Irish (Section 2.3).
The methodology used in this paper is discussed in Section 3, while Section 4
presents the findings of the corpus-based study of the modal constructions be
able to and can in participant-internal possibility contexts. In Section 5 the
results of my analysis will be discussed in terms of the proposed research state-
ment and questions.
2.	 Theoretical background
2.1	 Contact-induced language change
Thomason claims that “any linguistic change that would have been less likely to
occur outside a particular contact situation is due at least in part to language con-
tact” (2001: 62). The linguistic outcome of language contact is mainly determined
by the sociolinguistic history of the speakers and not the structure of their lan-
guage (Thomason & Kaufman 1991: 35). The fact that the Irish learned from other
Irish speakers and not by means of formal education, as mentioned in the intro-
duction, suggests a contact situation of ‘imperfect learning’. It should be noted that
imperfect learning is not necessarily concerned with a lack of ability to learn, and
that other factors, such as attitude and availability of the target language (TL), can
be a crucial determinant (Thomason & Kaufman 1991: 39). Thomason and
Kaufman (1991: 47) argue that “imperfect learning is a probability and the learn-
ers’ errors are more likely to spread throughout the TL speech community” if (a)
language shift occurs rapidly, as was the case in nineteenth-century Ireland, and
(b) the shifting group represents a large proportion of the total population so that
the TL is not fully available to the shifting group, as was again the case in espe-
cially late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century Ireland.
According to Thomason (2001: 75), learners of a new language in a situation
of imperfect learning carry over some features of their native language (or source
	 Marije van Hattum
language; SL) into their version of the target language, which Thomason refers to
as TL2. Additionally, there is the possibility that the learners fail or refuse to learn
some of the TL features, especially when they are marked features, and thus these
learners’ errors also become part of the TL2. De Smet (2012: 606–7) criticizes the
role of markedness in actualization as these accounts frequently invite circular
reasoning and “suffer from definitional vagueness and inaccuracies”. De Smet of-
fers an alternative explanation by arguing that “actualization proceeds from one
environment to another on the basis of similarity relations between environments”
(2012: 601). Thus, analogy seems to be an important mechanism involved in the
process of actualization, i.e. the innovation of novel forms. This would suggest
that, if learners make errors that resemble the original TL feature on a surface
level, this could trigger an actuation process which results in the feature becoming
part of the TL2.
Finally, if the shifting group integrates into the original TL-speaking commu-
nity to form one speech community a new variety is formed, which Thomason
calls TL3. This stage somewhat resembles Schneider’s (2003) Nativization stage,
where the nation substantially weakens its ties with the mother country often
seeking or gaining political independence. The settler strand (TL-speaking com-
munity) and the indigenous strand (TL2-speaking community) “become closely
and directly intertwined” (Schneider 2003: 247). Ireland’s nativization stage took
place during the second half of the nineteenth and the early twentieth century, the
period in which the first Home Rule Bill was drafted (1866) and the Irish Free State
was created (1922). In this stage the process of “linguistic accommodation” (also
referred to as “negotiation”) causes the original TL and TL2 to merge, adopting
features from both varieties and thus forming a new variety altogether. Thomason
(2001: 142) describes accommodation as “the negotiation mechanism [that] is at
work when speakers change their language (A) to approximate what they believe
to be the patterns of another language or dialect (B)”.
Thomason (2001) proposes five requirements that need to be met before one
can speak of “structural interference” of a native language in contact-induced
language change: (i) It is very unlikely for just one feature from the SL to have
influenced the proposed TL2, thus the presence of other instances of structural
interference from the same SL suggests that contact-induced language change is a
possible account for a proposed language change. (ii) A SL must be identified; if
there is no possibility of the proposed SL having come in contact with TL2, no
convincing case for contact-induced interference can be made. (iii) Evidence must
be found of shared structural features in both the proposed SL and TL2 or, if no
evidence from this stage survives, in TL3. What is important to note here is that the
lack of evidence for structural transfer in a present-day variety of TL3 does not
exclude the possibility of structural transfer having been present in TL2 or in an
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
earlier form of TL3. (iv) Evidence must be found which indicates that the struc-
tural feature which is purported to result from contact-induced language change
was not present in the TL before it came into contact with the SL; the possibility of
retention of older forms of the TL must be taken into account. (v) It must be proved
that the shared structural feature was present in the SL before it came into contact
with the TL. Since the process of convergence is unidirectional, we must consider
that a proposed shared feature might have been transferred from English to Irish
and not the other way around.
2.2	 can and be able to in present-day Standard English
Before starting the account of can and be able to in present-day Standard Eng-
lish, it is important to note two things: (i) when a modal verb and all its forms are
being referred to, thus including both past and present tense forms and negative
and positive polarity forms, the modal verb in question will appear in small caps;
and (ii) there is often confusion in the literature between typological (semantic)
tense and language-specific (morpho-syntactic) tense. Tense in this chapter applies
only to language-specific morphological or morpho-syntactic forms used to
express the different elements of the temporal system. The term time will be used
to refer to the semantic typological method of analysing temporal systems of
any language.
be able to and can generally express similar meanings, but they are not al-
ways interchangeable in present-day Standard English, especially in past time con-
texts. As Palmer (1990) points out, could cannot always be used for the expression
of non-epistemic modality in the past. In positive polarity clauses that have a past
time reference be able to is sometimes an obligatory substitute for can. This is
illustrated in example (2a), where the use of could is considered ungrammatical
and instead was able to should be used, as in example (2b). However, if the sen-
tence has negative polarity, as in (2c), or is qualified, as in (2d), this restriction
does not apply.
	 (2)	 a.	 * I ran fast, and could catch the bus.
		 b.	 I ran fast, and was able to catch the bus.
		 c.	 I ran fast, but couldn’t catch the bus.
		 d.	 I could almost reach the branch. (Palmer 1990: 93)
As discussed above, be able to and can are not always interchangeable in past time
contexts. According to Palmer (1990), there are semantic differences between the two
in non-past contexts as well. (i) Be able to is only equivalent to can in the expres-
sion of participant-internal possibility (example 3) in the sense that be able to is not
likely to occur unless a participant-internal possibility interpretation is theoretically
	 Marije van Hattum
possible. However, Coates (1983) gives examples (4) and (5) to indicate that be able
to can be used in participant-external possibility (her root possibility) and deontic
possibility (also referred to as permission) contexts as well. (ii) Similar to past time
contexts, be able to is preferred over can when actuality of the event is implied, i.e.
be able to means ‘can and does’ whereas can means ‘can and will do’. According to
Perkins (1983), this difference in meaning can be explained by the fact that be able
to is objective and can is inherently neutral (nothing prevents the event from hap-
pening) and only becomes objective by ascribing participant-internal possibility,
participant-external possibility and deontic possibility meanings to it. However, the
examples below illustrated that be able to can also express participant-external
possibility and deontic possibility, which would suggest that this modal is subject to
objectification as well. Rather, the preference for be able to in contexts expressing
actuality could be related to Coates’s claim that can always occurs in stative contexts,
whereas be able to can occur in dynamic contexts with the meaning ‘manage to’ or
‘succeed to’ alongside stative uses. For example, in (6) a friend is able to can be inter-
preted as ‘a friend succeeds in’ and not a general ability of a friend to prove people’s
innocence. (iii) be able to is more formal than can, which is shown by the fact that
be able to is more common in writing than in speech (Coates 1983).
	 (3)	 Yet at the same time, when it comes to personal things, to family things
you’re able to be very detached. (Palmer 1990: 88)
	 (4)	 The editor thanks you for submitting the enclosed ms but regrets he is un-
able to use it. (Coates 1983: 124)
	 (5)	 but it’s a bit ridiculous that I should be able to work in another college and
not allowed to work in my own. (Coates 1983: 124)
	 (6)	 (film synopsis) The prosecutor is not concerned with him as an individual
and is himself quite convinced of his guilt. But in the end a friend is able
to prove the man’s innocence to the satisfaction of the court officials.
		 (Coates 1983: 127)
2.3	 Participant-internal possibility in Irish
In order to establish whether the Irish language could have had any influence on
the development of participant-internal possibility in IrE, a brief investigation of
the expression of this kind of modality in Irish is in order. As mentioned above, an
investigation into the SL before it came into contact with the TL would be neces-
sary. However, to the best of my knowledge no studies on modality in historical
varieties of Irish have been published to date. Therefore, the investigation will be
based on what has been published on present-day Irish, complemented by my
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
investigation of the existence of the constructions in the historical input variety,
i.e. Irish from the seventeenth century onwards.
Hickey (2009) has argued that structural transfer from Irish to IrE was high-
ly unlikely due to the lack of equivalence between the Irish and the English mod-
al systems. However, there are at least some resemblances between the Irish and
English modal systems. In Irish, participant-internal possibility is mainly ex-
pressed by the following constructions: the fully inflectable verb bí ‘be’ in com-
bination with ábalta ‘able’ as in example (7) and the theoretically fully inflectable
verb féad ‘can’ as in example (8). When expressing non-epistemic modality the
modal construction is always followed by a verbal noun. The verb féad can be
traced back to the Middle Irish (ca. 900–1200) verb fétaid, which then already
had the meaning of ‘be able’ and ‘can’ (eDIL 2007: s.v. fétaid). It is quite likely
that the bí ... ábalta construction was borrowed into Irish from English: (1) there
is evidence of other instances of structural interference from English to Irish
(e.g. Doyle 2001a, 2001b; Stenson 1993; Veselinović 2006); (2) there was a con-
tact situation and English is the SL; (3) the Irish bí ... ábalta and the English be
able to construction are a shared structural feature between Irish and English;
(4) the Irish bí ... ábalta construction was not present in Old Irish (up to 900) or
Middle Irish (900–1200), and probably not early Modern Irish (1200–1600) ei-
ther, as examples can be found in the Corpas na Gaeilge (Uí Bheirn 2004) from
the 1730s onwards, but not in the eDIL; (5) Be able to can be traced back to late
Middle English (cf. OED s.v. able), which is before the second contact period
between Irish and English.
	 (7)	 Tá	 mé	 ábalta	 “An Bhfuil	 Gaeilge	 Agat?’’	 a	 léamh.
		 Am	 I	 able	 is	 Gaelic	 at-you	 to	 read
		 v:pr pn:1s-nom	 adj	 v:pr-inter	n	 p+pn:2s	 partvn
		 ‘I am able to read “An Bhfuil Gaeilge Agat?”’ 2
	 (8)	 Féadaim	 snámh.
		 can-I	 swim
		 v:pr+1s-nom	 vn
		 ‘I can swim’ (Hickey 2009: 269)
Hickey (2009) mentions another construction which expresses participant-inter-
nal possibility in the Irish dialect of Connacht: the fully inflectable verb bí ‘be’ in
2.	 Example and translation from: Teastas Fiúntach. 2009, September 4. Derry Journal.
Retrieved May 21, 2011, from: <http://www.derryjournal.com/community/columnists/teastas_
fi_218_ntach_1_2140410>
	 Marije van Hattum
combination with in ann ‘in wealth, able’ as in example (9).3 This construction is
found in Connacht only and does not seem to have developed the participant-­
internal possibility meaning until the nineteenth century (Ó Máille 1964–66).
Thus, it is unlikely that this construction played a role in the development of the
expression of participant-internal possibility in IrE.
	 (9)	 Tá	 mé	 in	ann	 damhsa	a	 dhéanamh.
		 a	 I	 in	ability	dance	 to	 do
		 v:pr	pn:1s-nom	p	 n	 n:s	 part	vn
		 ‘I can dance’ (Ó Siadhail 1989: 290)
The bí ... ábalta construction closely resembles the English be able to construc-
tion in form and meaning. Furthermore, both the Irish and the English construc-
tion can only be used to express non-epistemic modality. On the other hand, the
Irish verb féad ‘can’, as in example (8), can be used to express both non-epistemic
and epistemic possibility. As mentioned above, when expressing non-epistemic
possibility the verb generally takes a verbal noun as complement, but when ex-
pressing epistemic possibility it takes a finite form of the verb as complement, as
demonstrated in example (10). The ability to take on both epistemic and non-
epistemic meanings is something the verb féad has in common with its English
counterpart can. The main difference between can and féad is that can is never
inflected, whereas féad is inflected, even though the verb is defective.4
	 (10)	 D’fhéadfadh	(sé)	 go	 raibh	 siad	 ann.
		 could	 it	 that	 be	 they	 there
		 v:cond	 pn:3s-m-nom	conj	v:past	pn:3pl-nom	adv
		 ‘They could have been there’ (McQuillan 2009: 76)
Another difference between the two languages is that in English can is the most
frequently used construction to express participant-internal possibility, whereas
in Irish the bí ... ábalta construction is most common (Hickey 2009). Therefore, a
possible explanation for the high use of be able to in IrE in the second half of the
nineteenth century is that the language-shifters used the constructions from
English, as they resembled their own language quite closely, but had a distribution
of the two variant forms that was closer to Irish. One of the shortcomings of this
explanation is that the frequency of the two variant constructions in Irish is based
on present-day Irish, and therefore it cannot be safely argued that the distributions
3.	 Hickey (2009) and Wagner (1959) have suggested alternative meanings for in ann. A dis-
cussion of the origin of the in ann construction is not relevant for this paper, but see van Hattum
(2012).
4.	 All tenses and forms of this verb can be found in all the dialects of Irish combined, but no
single dialect makes use of all of them (Ó Siadhail 1989).
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
were the same in the nineteenth century, even if all constructions were already
present in the Irish language at the time. A study into their distribution during the
time of the great language shift, which to the best of my knowledge does not yet
exist, is something I hope to be able to carry out in the near future.
3.	 Methodology
The discussion of the two modal constructions in Irish suggests that there is a pos-
sibility of minimal Irish influence, but to develop a better understanding of the
constructions in Irish English it is necessary to look at language-internal factors as
well. My study explores the distributional patterns of can and be able to in par-
ticipant-internal possibility contexts in both past and non-past contexts in IrE in
comparison to EngE by means of a corpus-based analysis of IrE and EngE per-
sonalletters.Thebulkoftheselettersarewrittenbothbyandtoemigrants.Emigrant
lettershavebeenproventobeausefulsourceforlinguisticresearch(e.g.Montgomery
1995; Filppula 1999; Fritz 2007; Hickey 2007), as they provide insights into infor-
mal, intimate and relatively unmonitored language use. They are written mainly
between family members and close friends often from the lower ranks of society,
who had modest education (Fritz 2007: 73), and thus they were often written with
less self-consciousness than other letters (Montgomery 1995: 33). Besides, the ma-
jority of emigrant letters are autographs and are almost always datable and localis-
able, which makes them particularly suitable for sociolinguistic research.5 On the
other hand, it has also been pointed out that emigrant letters show variable usage
between native and acquired features (Fritz 2007: 74). However, Fitzpatrick (1994)
notes that the emigrants sometimes avoided these newly acquired features in order
to “strengthen the emigrant’s weakening link with ‘home’” (Fritz 2007: 73). I have
consistently checked the background of the informants to test whether migration
could have played a role in the deviating use of be able to, but found that the in-
creased use of be able to could be found in the writing of those who migrated as
well as those who remained in Ireland (cf. van Hattum 2012).
3.1	 Irish English data
In order to investigate the distribution of can and be able to in nineteenth-­
century and present-day IrE, van Hattum (2012) made use of a corpus of
5.	 A sociolinguistic study of the difference between can and be able to was carried out, but
this resulted in an insufficient number of tokens per subgroup and has therefore been excluded
from this chapter.
	 Marije van Hattum
approximately 300,000 words compiled from three sources: the CORIECOR cor-
pus (McCafferty & Amador-Moreno in progress), the book Oceans of Consolation
by Fitzpatrick (1994), and the International Corpus of English: Ireland component
(ICE-Ireland, Kirk & Kallen 2008).
ICE-Ireland is a transcribed corpus of more than one million words of contem-
porary IrE speech and writing. My study only uses the social letter section from the
corpus, which consists of approximately 60,000 words of authors from various re-
gional and social backgrounds. In Oceans of Consolation, Fitzpatrick (1994: 5) is
concerned “with a few individual experiences of migration, as represented in the
correspondence of Irish settlers in Australia”. His aims lie mostly in the historical
field, but he recognizes the value of these sequences of letters for linguistic research.
The corpus of letters transcribed consists of over 80,000 words from 34 correspon-
dents. The letters were mainly written during the nineteenth century by weavers or
farmers who were forced to migrate because of the Great Famine and their families
who stayed in Ireland. None of the correspondents was completely illiterate, but
over a third were unschooled. CORIECOR is a corpus of personal letters, mainly
from and to Irish emigrants, consisting of approximately 2.5 million words, cover-
ing a time-span from ca. 1670 to 1940, and with materials from the Irish Emigration
Database at Queen’s University Belfast’s Centre for Migration Studies. I made a se-
lection of roughly 170,000 words based on the following criteria: all the texts of the
seventeenth and eighteenth century with an identifiable author were selected, since
not enough material was available to select authors based on socio-biographical
data; for the nineteenth century, a selection was made based on sex, dialect region,
and social class in order to construct as well-balanced a representation as possible.6
An overview of the sources used is given in Table 1 below.
Table 1.  Word count of Irish English sources examined in this paper.
time-period CORIECOR Oceans of Consolation ICE-Ireland Total
1750–1774   37,120 0 0   37,120
1775–1799   75,489 0 0   75,489
1800–1824   11,334 0 0   11,334
1825–1849    9,338   2,048 0   11,386
1850–1874   10,820 67,323 0   78,143
1875–1899   10,406 12,320 0   22,726
1900–1924    9,900 0 0    9,900
1975–1999 0 0 60,508   60,508
Total 164,497 81,691 60,508 306,696
6.	 For a more detailed account of the compilation process of the corpus under investigation
and my reasons for choosing these corpora, see van Hattum (2012).
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
3.2	 English English data
In an attempt to determine whether any idiosyncrasies found in the IrE data could
also be found in EngE, the IrE data were compared to a corpus of EngE letters of a
similar type, with materials drawn from the Cherry Valley Chronicles (Dennett
1990), the Corpus of Oz Early English (COEE, Fritz 2004) and the letter genre of
the ARCHER 3.1 corpus.7 The texts selected from these sources were all personal
letters and largely emigrant letters representing various dialects and sociolects of
English. For my study, only texts which met the following criteria were taken into
account: (i) texts produced between 1825 and 1899; (ii) texts written by someone
who was born and educated in England; and (iii) texts classifiable as either per-
sonal correspondence in general, or emigrant letters in particular. In order to en-
sure that idiolect would not bias the results, no more than 5,000 words per author
were selected. This resulted in approximately 16,000 words of lower-class emigrant
letters taken from the Cherry Valley Chronicles, 70,000 words of lower- and mid-
dle-class emigrant letters taken from the COOEE corpus, and 9,000 words of mid-
dle- and upper-class personal letters taken from ARCHER. For a comparison with
present-day EngE I used the programme ICECUP (Wallis 2006), version 3.1, to
examine the social letters of the International Corpus of English: Great Britain com-
ponent (ICE-GB) consisting of approximately 30,000 words of authors from vari-
ous social and regional backgrounds. An overview of the EngE sources used can
be found in Table 2 below.
Table 2.  Word count and description of British English corpora examined in this paper.
Source Text type Informants 1825–1849 1850–1874 1875–1899 Total
CVC Emigrant
letters
Lower classes
Mainly male
North-west England
  4,467   7,293   4,272 16,032
COOEE Emigrant
letters
Lower and middle
classes
51,095 14,553   4,175 69,823
ARCHER Personal
letters
Middle and upper
classes
Male and female
England
0   5,366   3,451   8,817
Total 55,562 27,212 11,898 94,672
7.	 For more information on the individual EngE sources I refer the reader to Dennett (1990),
Fritz (2007) and Yáñez-Bouza (2011).
	 Marije van Hattum
3.3	 Data analysis
The analysis of can and be able to in van Hattum (2012) showed that the in-
creased use of be able to could only be found in participant-internal possibility
contexts. The envelope of variation, that is, the environment where variation be-
tween can and be able to is possible, was defined by extracting all instances of
can and be able to from the corpus and coding them according to their modal
meaning, so that only those tokens expressing participant-internal possibility re-
mained. It is important to note here that all instances of can and be able to with
participant-internal possibility meaning were considered, despite the fact that in
present-day StE they are not always interchangeable (see Section 2.2). The reason
for including all instances is the belief that one should not assume that the subtle
differences between can and be able to in present-day StE also apply to earlier
forms of English or to other varieties of English. The implications of including all
tokens for the variant analysis are discussed where relevant.
The data were subdivided into time periods of twenty-five years, in order to
represent one generation of writers, in accordance with the methodology used to
investigate modality in early Ontario English (Dollinger 2008). Since the sudden
increase in the use of be able to occurred during the second half of the nine-
teenth century, the main focus is on the periods from 1825 to 1849, the time of the
Great Famine and the introduction of the national school system (ca. 11,000
words), 1850 to 1874 (ca. 80,000 words), and 1875 to 1899 (ca. 22,000 words).
After coding, the tokens were analysed for several language internal factors, such
as semantic context, time reference and polarity of the clause.
As argued in Section 2.2, certain language internal factors can predict the
choice of be able to and can in non-epistemic contexts (e.g. Coates 1983;
Palmer 1990). As mentioned above, can only occurs in stative contexts, whereas
be able to can occur in stative and dynamic contexts. When be able to occurs
in a more dynamic context, it often indicates a usually temporary physical state
that enables the event to take place, as in example (11) where is able to could be
paraphrased by ‘manages to’. In a stative context, on the other hand, be able to
signifies a general ability, as in example (12). For this paper, I have chosen to fol-
low Coates (1983) in making a semantic distinction between dynamic (e.g. (11))
and stative (e.g. (12)) contexts.
	 (11)	 She was confined to bed for over six months, but is so far recovered that
she is able to get up and walk about a little. (CORIECOR Miller 1882)
	 (12)	 You were right in your observation, when you said you thought it was
Partick Cattney that was the writer of our letters – he is always able to
wield the old pen. (OC Brenan 1874)
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
Another factor mentioned was the time reference of the clause in which the
modal constructions appear. be able to is usually obligatory in positive polar-
ity clauses which have a past time reference, as was shown in examples (2a) and
(2b) above. However, if the sentence has negative polarity (2c) or is qualified by
an adverb (2d) this restriction does not apply. Since present and future time
references have no such restrictions and since they also make use of the same
morphosyntax, at least as far as can is concerned, it was decided to delimit the
classification to the binary distinction between past and non-past contexts. In
IrE, as in many other varieties of English, time reference and tense do not always
correspond, as illustrated in example (13). Here, the phrase is merely able to is in
the present tense, but the phrase if she had pain and the rest of the context sug-
gest past time reference. Therefore, it was decided to use time reference as a fac-
tor, and not tense.
	 (13)	 I seldom be at Milford I was there on last fair day, I may tell you that your
mother then looked ill, she is merely able to be about if she had pain.
		 (CORIECOR Williams 1883)
As mentioned above, the polarity of the clause is also predicted to have an impact
on the choice for be able to over can. Thus polarity will be investigated as a vari-
ant with positive and negative as the variables. Example (2d) showed that, when
participant-internal possibility in past time contexts is qualified by an adverb, the
use of be able to is not obligatory, as it would be when the polarity of the clause
was positive. Therefore, sentences with a qualifying adverb such as (14) are classi-
fied as negative polarity.
	 (14)	 They are not natives either but indeed I could scarcely tell you what is
natives. (OC McCance 1858)
4.	 be able to versus can in participant-internal possibility contexts
Table 3 shows that there is little difference in the distribution of be able to and
can between present-day EngE and IrE corpora: in IrE be able to is used with
a frequency of 2%, whereas in EngE be able to occurs in 8% of all instances,
but this small difference is not statistically significant (p=0.2).8 The low fre-
quency of be able to is observed in the eighteenth and early nineteenth cen-
tury as well, with percentages ranging from 7% to 12%. In the period from 1825
to 1849, EngE (13%) makes slightly more use of be able to than IrE (9%).
8.	 Since the number of tokens is generally very low in this study, I have applied a two-tailed
Fisher Exact test of statistical significance.
	 Marije van Hattum
However, the IrE percentages increase substantially to approximately 30% in
the second half of the nineteenth century, before decreasing again in the twen-
tieth century to as low a frequency as in the early nineteenth century (8%). If we
compare the IrE percentages with the EngE percentages for the second half of
the nineteenth century, we can see that the frequency of EngE remains rela-
tively low compared to IrE (3% vs. 29/30%). The differences between IrE and
EngE for the periods 1850–1874 and 1875–1899 are statistically significant
(p=0.0007 and p=0.004, respectively). In the second half of the nineteenth cen-
tury the Irish make considerably more use of be able to than the English. It
was largely during this time that Irish/English bilinguals shifted toward using
English on a daily basis, and as a result integrated into the English-speaking
community. Thus it seems that, during this integration phase, the frequency of
use for both these modal constructions in English seems not to have been trans-
ferred from the TL of the settler community to the TL3 of the integrated
community, which resulted in a higher distribution rate for be able to in nine-
teenth-century IrE. In addition to this, the Great Famine and its aftermath
caused a substantial increase in migration of mainly lower-class, minimally
schooled people. In order to keep contact, many of these unschooled emigrants
started to write to their families with little to no knowledge of English grammar
and spelling systems. Thus, not only did the TL2 community integrate into the
English speaking community, the new TL3 community also became part of the
English writing community.
Table 3.  Distribution patterns in participant-internal possibility contexts from
the mid-eighteenth century to the present day (after van Hattum 2012).
IrE EngE
N can N able % can % able N can N able % can % able
1750–1774 14   0 100%   0% – – – –
1775–1799 22   3   88% 12% – – – –
1800–1824 14   1   93%   7% – – – –
1825–1849 10   1   91%   9%   54   8 87% 13%
1850–1874 51 21   71% 29%   34   1 97%   3%
1875–1899 23 10   70% 30%   31   1 97%   3%
1900–1924 12   1   92%   8% – – – –
– – – – – – – – –
1975–1999 47   1   98%   2%   48   4 92%   8%
Total 193 38   84% 16% 167 14 92%   8%
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
The decrease in the use of be able to in twentieth-century IrE can be accounted
for by the process of supraregionalization (cf. Milroy et al. 1994, 1999; Hickey
2003a, 2007, 2012; Britain 2009). This is an historical process whereby varieties
of a language lose specifically local features and become less regionally bound
(Hickey 2007: 309). Key to this historical process are the principles of suppres-
sion and selection. The emphasis is on the adoption of a feature from a non-­
regional variety with which speakers are in close contact (Hickey 2003b). The
final stage of language change is not necessarily Standard English (StE), but rath-
er a more or less standardised variety of English as spoken in the region in ques-
tion. Supraregionalization distinguishes itself from standardization in that it
does not have a codified written form for official purposes. A further distinction
is that suppression of local forms is an active process during supraregionaliza-
tion, whereas it is more passive during standardization. The more localised
varieties of English did not die out completely, but rather became restricted to
informal contexts.
According to Hickey (2007: 310), supraregionalization in Ireland was the re-
sult of the rise of a native middle class and the introduction of the national school
system in the first half of the nineteenth century (1831). The IrE speakers probably
became aware of the provinciality of their language, and the exposure to more
mainstream varieties of English triggered an accommodation process in which the
IrE speakers converged towards an EngE dialect, which eventually led towards a
more or less standardised variety of IrE. Hickey has successfully demonstrated this
process with reference to phonological changes in the late nineteenth century, but
it seems that the convergence of the distribution of be able to and can towards
EngE transpired only in the early twentieth century.
Since the IrE divergence in frequency from EngE seems to take place in the
second half of the nineteenth century, the following section will focus on this time
period only. Thus, the percentages and raw frequencies in the figures represent the
total of the period 1850 to 1899. The analysis aims to identify the linguistic and
extra-linguistic factors determining the choice of be able to over can in IrE in
line with the methodology described above.
4.2	 Language internal factors
4.2.1	 Dynamic vs. stative contexts
This section explores the possibility of semantic context having an impact on the
choice between be able to and can. As mentioned in Section 3.3, the variables
for this analysis are dynamic and stative (cf. examples 11 and 12 above, respec-
tively). Figure 1 shows that semantic context has a statistically significant impact
on the choice of modal in both IrE and EngE. Be able to is more common in
	 Marije van Hattum
IrE
Percentage
0
Dynamic
22
11
8
59
Stative
20
40
60
80
100
Be able to Can
EngE
Percentage
0
Dynamic
7
10
2
94
Stative
20
40
60
80
100
Figure 1.  be able to and can in dynamic and stative contexts from 1850 to 1899
(percentages and raw figures).
dynamic contexts, 66% for IrE and 41% for EngE, than stative contexts where be
able to occurs at a rate of 12% in IrE and 2% in EngE (IrE p=0.00000005 and
EngE p=0.00002). However, there seems to be a difference between IrE and EngE
when it comes to dynamic contexts. A Fisher exact test indicates that the difference
between IrE and EngE in dynamic contexts has a p-value of 0.08, which suggests
that there is a 92% chance that the null-hypothesis is false. Considering the small
data set, it is highly suggestive that in IrE be able to is the preferred variant in
dynamic contexts, whereas in EngE can is preferred.
4.2.2	 Polarity
As predicted, Figure 2 shows that be able to occurs more frequently in positive
polarity contexts as opposed to negative contexts. In IrE, be able to occurs at a
rate of 39% in positive polarity contexts and 14% in negative polarity contexts,
whereas can occurs at a rate of 61% and 86% respectively. The EngE data set
shows a lower use of be able to in general, but also has the difference between
positive polarity, where be able to occurs at a rate of 16% against 84% for can,
and negative polarity, where be able to occurs at a rate of 3% against 97% for
can. The difference between positive and negative polarity contexts is statisti-
cally significant in both IrE (p=0.01) and EngE (p=0.02), meaning that in both
IrE and EngE the polarity of the clause influences the choice of one modal con-
struction over the other.
Figure 2 suggests a difference between IrE and EngE in the sense that the for-
mer variety uses be able to more frequently in positive polarity contexts (IrE =
39% and EngE = 16%). A Fisher exact test gives a p-value of 0.01, but this does not
necessarily imply a difference between IrE and EngE in the role that polarity plays.
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
IrE
Percentage
0
Positive
25
39
5
31
Negative
20
40
60
80
100
Be able to Can
EngE
Percentage
0
Dynamic
7
38
2
66
Negative
20
40
60
80
100
Figure 2.  be able to and can in positive and negative polarity contexts from 1850
to 1899 (percentages and raw figures).
The difference between IrE and EngE in negative polarity contexts, 14% and 3% re-
spectively, is also statistically significant (p=0.047). This, to me, suggests that the
higher use of be able to in IrE in general is causing the statistically significant high
occurrence of be able to in both positive and negative polarity contexts, and not a
significant difference between IrE and EngE in the influence of polarity on the choice
of modal construction. Thus, it seems that polarity cannot account for the differences
between the IrE and EngE datasets in the second half of the nineteenth century.
4.2.3	 Time reference
The time reference of the tokens was investigated to see whether there were any
trends in opting for be able to instead of can (see Figure 3). If we compare the
percentages for past and non-past time, it can be seen that the distributions of be
able to and can in IrE and EngE are similar in past contexts: in IrE the share of
be able to is 19% and in EngE it is 23%. In non-past time contexts, on the other
hand, there is a highly significant difference between IrE, which uses be able to
at a rate of 35%, and EngE, which uses this construction at a rate of only 3%
(p=0.00000002). In other words, in late nineteenth-century EngE, the time refer-
ence of the clause in which the modal construction appears influenced the distri-
bution of be able to and can. The former was used significantly more frequently
in past contexts (23%) compared to non-past contexts (3%) (p=0.001). This might
be related to the fact that be able to is sometimes obligatory in past contexts in
present-day StE, as mentioned in Section 2.2. It seems that in late nineteenth-
century IrE, however, time reference does not influence the distribution, as the
frequency of occurrence for non-past (34%) and past (19%) contexts is not statisti-
cally significant (p=0.16). Thus, the difference with EngE in the second half of the
nineteenth century is entirely situated in non-past time contexts.
	 Marije van Hattum
IrE
Percentage
0
Non-past
24
45
6
25
Past
20
40
60
80
100
Be able to Can
EngE
Percentage
0
Non-past
3
84
6
20
Past
20
40
60
80
100
Figure 3.  Participant-internal possibility in non-past and past time contexts from 1850
to 1899 (percentages and raw figures).
4.2.4	 Time reference and polarity
As mentioned in Sections 2.2 and 3.3, it is the combination of time reference and
polarity that plays a role in the choice of can and be able to in present-day StE.
Thus, this section will explore the combination of the two variants. As shown in
Figure 4, there is not much difference between IrE and EngE in non-past negative
contexts: in IrE be able to occurs at a rate of 8% in non-past negative contexts,
and in EngE be able to occurs at a rate of 2%. There is, however, a significant dif-
ference between the IrE and EngE data in non-past positive contexts (p=0.0003): in
IrE be able to occurs at a rate of 42% in these contexts, whereas the rate in EngE
only reaches 6%. In addition, it seems that in IrE there is a significant difference
between be able to and can in non-past contexts: in the IrE data, be able to oc-
curs at a rate of 42% in positive contexts, whereas the construction is used at a rate
of 8% in negative contexts (p=0.003). Thus, it seems that the high use of be able to
in non-past positive contexts, as in example (15), could account for the high use of
be able to in the IrE data from the second half of the nineteenth century.
	 (15)	 Tell John I am able to handle the Sythe yet and Set a Good Days Setting of
potatoes But a God Deal Fataiged after it. (OC Fife 1864)
Figure 5 shows the results of the use of be able to and can in IrE and EngE in
past positive and negative contexts. As predicted based on the literature, the use of
be able to in EngE in past positive contexts (36%) is significantly higher than in
past negative contexts (8%), or non-past contexts, as shown in Figure 4 above
(p=0.002). Thus, it seems that the subtle rules that distinguish be able to and can
in past time contexts in present-day StE (cf. Section 2.2) were already in place in
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
the late nineteenth-century EngE. However, the IrE data show an equally high use
of be able to in both past positive (27%) and past negative contexts (27%). Thus,
it seems that not only the non-past positive contexts cause the high occurrence
rate of be able to in the IrE dataset, but also the past negative contexts, e.g.
example (16), keeping in mind that with Great Difficulty qualifies the ability to
walk my lone.
	 (16)	 I was able to walk my lone with Great Difficulty. (OC Fife 1875)
IrE
Percentage
0
Non-past
positive
22
31
2
23
Past
negative
20
40
60
80
100
Be able to Can
EngE
Percentage
0
Non-past
positive
2
29
1
55
Past
negative
20
40
60
80
100
Figure 4.  Participant-internal possibility in non-past time positive and negative contexts
from 1850 to 1899 (percentages and raw figures).
IrE
Percentage
0
Past
positive
3
8
3
8
Past
negative
20
40
60
80
100
Be able to Can
EngE
Percentage
0
Past
positive
5
9
1
11
Past
negative
20
40
60
80
100
Figure 5.  Participant-internal possibility in past time positive and negative contexts from
1850 to 1899 (percentages and raw figures).
	 Marije van Hattum
5.	 Conclusion
The aim of the present paper was to investigate the diachronic development of
modals expressing participant-internal possibility during the formation period of
IrE in the eighteenth and, especially, the nineteenth century, based on a case study
of be able to and can.
Van Hattum (2012) argued that although the distribution of the modals under
investigation in this paper was similar in the present-day varieties of IrE and EngE,
this was not the case in the nineteenth century. In fact, the study of IrE and EngE
personal letters in this chapter showed that there was a relatively high use of be
able to in IrE from 1850 to 1899 in comparison to EngE (Section 4). The discus-
sion of participant-internal possibility in Irish showed that there was indeed
structural transfer concerning the constructions bí ábalta and be able to, but the
direction of the transfer was from English to Irish, rather than from Irish to Eng-
lish. According to Hickey (2009), bí ábalta is more frequent in present-day Irish
than be able to in present-day English, which might have influenced the higher use
of be able to in nineteenth-century IrE. However, even though my study suggests
that bí ábalta was already present in Irish before the language shift in the nine-
teenth century, further research is needed to establish the frequency of occurrence
of bí ábalta in nineteenth-century Irish. In addition, research on possible con-
straining factors on the use of bí ábalta, such as time reference and polarity, is
needed to establish (a) whether the constraints found in EngE of the time were
transferred to Irish, and (b) if constraints on the use of bí ábalta in Irish, or lack
thereof, could have been transferred to Irish English.
An analysis of language-internal factors showed a higher proportional distri-
bution of be able to in IrE in comparison to EngE when the sentence was in a
non-past context. More specifically, the higher distribution seemed to occur in
non-past positive, and past negative contexts. The data thus suggest that, while the
use of be able to in nineteenth-century EngE is clearly conditioned by the com-
bination of time reference and polarity, this is not the case in the IrE data from the
second half of the nineteenth century. A group of language shifters might have
failed to use the frequencies of occurrence associated with can and be able to in
their TL2. Rather, they might have modelled the frequencies of occurrence after
the distribution of similar constructions in their native language, or they failed to
recognise the subtle differences between the use of be able to and can in past
and present contexts and as a result of perceived similarity used similar frequen-
cies for both contexts (cf. De Smet 2012). When these groups of language shifters
came into contact with other English speakers throughout Ireland, there might
have been a process of mutual accommodation where the TL speakers were influ-
enced by the high frequency of be able to of the TL2 speakers. This resulted in
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
less restricted variation between be able to and can in IrE for the two periods in
the second half of the nineteenth century, which was clearly visible in the personal
letters as the English-based writing community increased its proportion of mini-
mally schooled TL3-speakers.
The hypothesis that language shifters failed to recognize the subtle differences
between can and be able to in EngE is not only supported by the proportional
distributions within certain contexts, but also by example sentences such as ex-
ample (17). Here could occurs in a positive polarity clause with past time refer-
ence. According to Palmer (1990: 93), “the positive past tense form of can is not
used in assertion if there is the implication of actuality, i.e. if it is implied that the
event took place”, and instead be able to should be used, which could be para-
phrased as ‘managed to’ or ‘succeeded in’. The example below implies that the event
(take his tumbler of punch and cup of tea as well as any of us) took place, despite the
fact that the participant (Hughie) is complaining of bad health at present, probably
the result of too much punch. The example suggests that the author was not aware
of the difference between be able to and can in EngE.
	 (17)	 They were both up spending the evening with us and Hughie could take
his tumbler of punch and cup of tea as well as any of us, though he is com-
plaining at the present (OC Fife 1860)
The decrease in the use of be able to in the twentieth century might be explained
by what Hickey describes as supraregionalization. Hickey (2003b, 2007) showed
that supraregionalization of phonetic features took place in the late nineteenth
century. The nineteenth-century was a time of increased regional and social mo-
bility as a result of famine and small scale urbanization, which led to the rise of a
native middle class. This, along with the introduction of the national school sys-
tem in the first half of the nineteenth century led to increased exposure to more
mainstream varieties of English which triggered the supraregionalization process.
The analysis of can and be able to in the second half of the nineteenth century
yields no convincing evidence that supraregionalization affected the modal verbs
as well, but the results do suggest that it took place in the twentieth century. This
could possibly be explained by the fact that grammar tends to change at a slower
pace than phonology.
To conclude, it seems likely that some writers of the nineteenth-century IrE
data failed to acquire the subtle differences between can and be able to as a re-
sult of unguided language shift and imperfect learning. This led to an increase in
the use of be able to during the second half of the nineteenth century. Future
research will have to be carried out to further explore the possibility of structural
transfer from Irish in terms of frequency distribution and linguistic constraints.
The use of be able to decreased again in the twentieth century, possibly due to
	 Marije van Hattum
supraregionalization triggered by the rise of a native middle class and small-scale
urbanization. A sociolinguistic investigation of be able to and can in the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries which considers extra-linguistic factors such
as gender, social class, and regional background should be carried out to verify
this hypothesis.
Sources
ARCHER-3.1 = A Representative Corpus of Historical English Registers, v3.1. (1990–
1993/2002/2007/2010). Compiled under the supervision of D. Biber, & E. Finegan at North-
ern Arizona University, University of Southern California, University of Freiburg, Univer-
sity of Heidelberg, University of Helsinki, Uppsala University, University of Michigan,
University of Manchester, Lancaster University, University of Bamberg, University of
Zurich, University of Trier, University of Salford, & University of Santiago de Compostela.
Co-ordinated by D. Denison, & N. Yáñez-Bouza at the University of Manchester <http://
www.alc.manchester.ac.uk/subjects/lel/research/projects/archer/>
ICE-GB: International Corpus of English, Great Britain Component (n.d.). Survey of English
Usage, University College London, UK <http://www.ucl.ac.uk/english-usage/projects/ice-
gb/> (16 November 2011).
References
van der Auwera, J. & Plungian, V. 1998. Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic Typology 2: 79–124.
DOI: 10.1515/lity.1998.2.1.79
Britain, D. 2009. Supralocal regional dialect levelling. In Language and Identities, C. Llamas, &
D. Watt (eds), 193–204. Edinburgh: EUP.
Coates, J. 1983. The Semantics of the Modal Auxiliaries. London: Croom Helm.
Corrigan, K.P. 2000. “What bees to be maun be”: Aspects of deontic and epistemic modality in
a northern dialect of Irish English. English World-Wide 21: 25–62. DOI: 10.1075/
eww.21.1.03cor
Corrigan, K.P. 2011. Grammatical variation in Irish English. English today 27: 39–46. DOI:
10.1017/S0266078411000198
De Smet, H. 2012. The course of actualization. Language 88: 601–633. DOI: 10.1353/
lan.2012.0056
Dennett, M. 1990. The Cherry Valley chronicles: Letters from Thomas Buckley and family 1845–
1875. Saddleworth: Saddleworth Historical Society.
Dollinger, S. 2008. New-dialect Formation in Canada. Evidence from the English Modal Auxilia-
ries [Studies in Language Companion Series 97]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI:
10.1075/slcs.97
Doyle, A. 2001a. Verb-particle combinations in Irish and English. In Language Links: The Lan-
guages of Scotland and Ireland, J.M. Kirk, & D. P. Ò Baoill (eds), 81–99. Belfast: Queen’s
University.
	 can and be able to in nineteenth-century Irish English	 
Doyle, A. 2001b. Tá “sorry” orm, ach níl sé suas chugat féin. In An Aimsir Óg 2000, M. Ó Cearb-
haill (ed.), 275–279. Baile Átha Cliath: Coiscéim.
eDIL. 2007. Electronic dictionary of the Irish language. <http://www.dil.ie> (11 November
2011).
Facchinetti, R. 2000. The modal verb shall between grammar and usage in the nineteenth cen-
tury. In The History of English in a Social Context. A Contribution to Historical Sociolinguis-
tics, D. Kastovsky & A. Mettinger (eds), 115–133. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Fennell, B.A. & Butters, R.R. 1996. Historical and contemporary distribution of double modals
in English. In Focus on the USA [Varieties of English around the World G16], E.W. Sch-
neider (ed.), 265–288. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/veaw.g16.14fen
Filppula, M. 1999. The Grammar of Irish English. Language in Hibernian Style. London:
Routledge.
Fitzpatrick, D. 1994. Oceans of Consolation: Personal Accounts of Migration to Australia. Cork:
Cork University Press.
Fogg, P.W. 1796. Elementa Anglicana; Or, the Principle of English Grammar, Vol. 2. Stockport: J.
Clarke.
Fritz, C. 2004. A Corpus of Oz Early English (COOEE). Berlin: Free University of Berlin.
Fritz, C. 2007. From English in Australia to Australian English – 1788–1900. Frankfurt: Peter
Lang.
van Hattum, M. 2012. Irish English Modal Verbs from the Fourteenth to the Twentieth Centu-
ries. PhD dissertation, University of Manchester.
Hickey, R. 2002. A Source Book for Irish English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/
lisl.27
Hickey, R. 2003a. How and why supraregional varieties arise. In Insights into Late Modern Eng-
lish, M. Dossena, & C. Jones (eds), 351–373. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Hickey, R. 2003b. Motives for Language Change. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511
486937
Hickey, R. 2007. Irish English: History and Present-day Forms. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/
CBO9780511551048
Hickey, R. 2009. Modal verbs in English and Irish. In Language Contact meets English Dialects:
Studies in Honour of Markku Filppula, E. Penttilä, & H. Paulasto (eds), 259–274. Newcastle
upon Tyne: Cambridge Scholars.
Hickey, R. 2012. Varieties of English: Supraregionalization. In English Historical Linguistics. An In-
ternational Handbook, L. Brinton & A. Bergs (eds), 2060–2076. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton.
Joyce, P.W. 1910. English as We Speak it in Ireland. Dublin: Wolfhound.
Kirk, J.M., & Kallen, J. L. 2006. Irish Standard English: How celticised? How standardised? In The
Celtic Englishes IV, H.T.C. Tristram (ed.), 88–113. Potsdam: Universitätsverlag Potsdam.
Kirk, J.M., & Kallen, J. L. 2008. ICE-Ireland. Queen’s University Belfast, Trinity College Dublin
and Cló Ollscoil na Banríona.
McCafferty, K. 2011. Victories fastened in grammar: Historical documentation of Irish English.
English Today 27: 17–24. DOI: 10.1017/S0266078411000162
McCafferty, K. & Amador-Moreno, C. P. Under construction.Corpus of Irish English Correspon-
dence (CORIECOR). Bergen: University of Bergen and University of Extremadura.
McQuillan, P. 2009. Modals in Irish. In Modals in the languages of Europe, B. Hansen, & F. de
Haan (eds), 71–105. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
	 Marije van Hattum
Milroy, J., Milroy, L., Hartley, S. & Walshaw, D. 1994. Glottal stops and Tyneside glottalization:
Competing patterns of variation and change in British English. Language Variation and
Change 6: 327–357. DOI: 10.1017/S095439450000171X
Milroy, L., Milroy, J., Docherty, G., Foulkes. P. & Walshaw, G. 1999. Phonological variation and
change in contemporary English: Evidence from Newcastle upon Tyne and Derby. Cuader-
nos de Filologia Inglesa 8: 3–46.
Montgomery, M. 1995. The linguistic value of Ulster emigrant letters. Ulster Folklife 41: 26–41.
Nagle, S. 1993. Double modals in early English. In Historical Linguistics 1989. Papers from the
9th International Conference on Historical Linguistics [Current Issues in Linguistic Theory
106], H. Aertsen & R.J. Jeffers (eds), 363–370. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/
cilt.106.26nag
Ó Cuív, B. 1986. Irish language and literature, 1691–1845. In A New History of Ireland, Volume
IV, T.W. Moody & W.E. Vaughan (eds), 374–423. Oxford: OUP.
Ó Máille, T. S. 1964–66. Focla NuaGhaeilge agus a bhfréamh. Éigse 11: 85–99.
Ó Siadhail, M. 1989. Modern Irish. Grammatical Structure and Dialectal Variation. Cambridge:
CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511620621
Palmer, F.R. 1990. Modality and the English Modals, 2nd edn. London: Longman.
Perkins, M. R. 1983. Modal Expressions in English. London: Frances Printer.
Schneider, E.W. 2003. The dynamics of new Englishes: From identity construction to dialect
birth. Language 79: 233–281. DOI: 10.1353/lan.2003.0136
Stenson, N. 1993. English influence on Irish: The last 100 years. Journal of Celtic Linguistics 2:
107–28.
Thomason, S.G. 2001. Language Contact. An Introduction. Edinburgh: EUP.
Thomason, S.G. & Kaufman, T. 1991. Language Contact, Creolization, and Genetic Linguistics.
Berkeley CA: University of California Press.
Traugott, E.C. 1972. The History of English Syntax. New York NY: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Uí Bheirn, Ú.M. 2004. Corpas na Gaeilge. Dublin: Royal Irish Academy.
Veselinović, E. 2006. How to put up with cur suas le rud and the bidirectionality of contact. In The
Celtic Englishes IV, H.L.C. Tristram (ed.),. 173–90. Potsdam: Universitätsverlag Potsdam.
Visser, F.T. 1973. An Historical Syntax of the English Language: Syntactical Units with Two Verbs
and with More Verbs, 3.2. Leiden: E. J. Brill.
Wagner, H. 1959. Das verbum in den Sprachen der Britischen Inseln. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer.
Wallis, S. 2006. ICECUP 3.1. Survey of English Usage, University College London.
Webster, N. 1789. Dissertations on the English Language: With notes, Historical and Critical to
Which is Added, by Way of Appendix, an Essay on a Reformed Mode of Spelling, with Dr.
Franklin’s Arguments on That Subject. Boston MA: Thomas and Company.
Yáñez-Bouza, N. 2011. ARCHER: Past and present (1990–2010). ICAME Journal 35: 205–236.
part 2
Patterns in the noun phrase
Syntactic constraints on the use of dual
form intensifiers in Modern English
Günter Rohdenburg
University of Paderborn
Recent work on comparative variation has highlighted two major syntactic
environments encouraging the choice of the more explicit more-variant, a)
the use of non-attributive rather than attributive adjectives and b) the use
of complemented rather than uncomplemented (non-attributive) adjectives
(cf., e.g., Mondorf 2009). The present article shows that throughout the Modern
English period these environments have also favoured the choice of the more
explicit suffixed variant in dual form intensifiers. In addition, the paper briefly
assesses some important theories that have been or could be invoked to
account for these findings. Specifically, it is shown that the prosodic (sub)type
of the intensifier itself does not play a decisive role in selecting the suffixed or
suffixless variant.
Keywords: dual form intensifiers, comparative variation, syntactic constraints,
Complexity Principle, prosody, verbality, actualization
1.	 Setting the scene
This paper deals with contrasts such as (1) and (2) in the Modern English period
from 1500 to the present time.
	 (1)	 a.	 ... for his mercy is exceadynge great. (OED, 1535)
		 b.	 He increased his people exceadingly. (OED, 1535)
	 (2)	 a.	 To this purpose..would I write, and mighty respectfully withal.
		 (OED, 1767)
		 b.	 I should be mightily obliged to you if .... (OED, 1756–82)
Since over 90% of the (deadjectival) degree adverbs analyzed (cf. list [3] below)
represent intensifiers rather than qualifiers I shall use the cover term intensifier to
refer to all of them. In (1) and (2), the adverbial function is indicated explicitly
	 Günter Rohdenburg
only in (1b) and (2b). In the Modern English period, deadjectival adverbs gener-
ally have increasingly become marked by means of the suffix -ly. However, intensi-
fiers, which tend to modify adjectives and adverbs as in (1a) and (2a), have been
comparatively slow to follow suit. Accordingly, there are still quite a few intensifi-
ers left today that may be found with or without the -ly suffix.
What are some factors that have influenced the choice between the two inten-
sifier variants over the last few centuries? The question has been studied by a suc-
cession of researchers including Nevalainen (1994, 2008), Peters (1994: 284–285),
Ungerer (1988: 262–263), and Tagliamonte and Ito (2002). So far, the focus has
remained predominantly sociolinguistic, and research concerning strictly gram-
matical constraints is less far advanced than that of the related domain of adjecti-
val comparison. The current state of grammatical knowledge concerning dual
form intensifiers may be summarized by the pilot study in Table 1.
These data are based on the relevant quotations in the headword entries of
OED2 for a total of 41 (arbitrarily selected) intensifiers. Their zero forms are
listed in (3)
(3)	 amazing, awful, bitter, desperate, devilish, dreadful, exceeding, excessive, ex-
traordinary, extreme, fearful, fiendish, great, hellish, horrible, horrid, huge,
immense, indifferent, intolerable, jolly, main, marvellous, mighty, monstrous,
parlous, passable, passing, plaguy, precious, prodigious, real, remarkable, sin-
gular, terrible, tolerable, uncommon, vast, violent, wonderful, wondrous
Clearly, the results in Table 1 corroborate the major findings provided by Neva-
lainen, Peters, Ungerer, and Tagliamonte and Ito. Thus, Nevalainen (2008: 297),
dealing with the 16th and 17th centuries, states that “zero intensifiers favour ad-
verb and adjectival heads” while “intensifying -ly adverbs tend to occur with
Table 1.  The distribution of 41 deadjectival dual form intensifiers in the headword entries
of the OED.
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
1. adjectives (including those
ending in -ing)
190 104 294 35.4%
2. past participles + adjectives
derived from past participles
   7   43   50 86%
3. verb phrases    8   99 107 92.5%
4. simple adverbs (excluding
cases like – well preserved)
  23   12
(rise immensely
high: 1x)
  35 34.3%
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
verbal and participial heads, ...” I take it that the reference to participles excludes
adjectives derived from present participles, which behave very differently from
those derived from past participles and more like ordinary adjectives. Accordingly,
any examples of adjectives derived from present participles as in (7a) below have
been assigned to the category of adjectives.
In her groundbreaking studies of adjectival comparison, Mondorf (2002, 2003,
2007, 2009) explores a wide variety of formal and semantic-pragmatic constraints.
Intriguingly, she observes that the contrast between concrete and abstract senses
influencing adverbial marking (cf. Donner [1991] for Middle English and
Tagliamonte and Ito [2002] for present-day English in York, England) is paralleled
by the choice between synthetic and analytic comparatives (Mondorf 2007, 2009).
In both domains, it is the cognitively more complex abstract senses that are at-
tracted to the grammatically more explicit variants, the suffixed adverb and the
analytic comparative. The parallel suggests that two major syntactic constraints on
comparative variation could be expected to be relevant to intensifier variation as
well. The first constraint involves the contrast between attributive comparatives on
the one hand and non-attributive ones on the other including mostly predicative
and postnominal uses. For instance, compare in Table 2 my analysis of the adjec-
tive stark, which does not select any complements.
It is apparent that non-attributive uses are much more likely to select the
more explicit analytic type than attributives. For a wide range of further con-
trasts like these I will have to refer the reader to Mondorf (2003, 2009). The
second constraint that may have a bearing on intensifier variation concerns the
presence or absence of various complements. In illustration, consider in Table 3
the behaviour of the adjective full, which may occur with or without preposi-
tional complements.
To begin with, Table 3 displays (in rows 1 and 2a) the usual contrast between
attributive and non-attributive uses of the comparative alternatives. As is the case
with the vast majority of adjectives in English, complemented instances of fuller
and more full are not found in attributive environments.1 This is why the compari-
son of complemented and uncomplemented examples in rows 2b-c has been
confined to non-attributive uses. The analysis reveals that adjectives followed by
complements exhibit a special affinity for the more explicit comparative type fea-
turing more. In addition, comparing rows 1 and 2c, it is seen that the overall
contrast between attributives and non-attributives is far from being entirely de-
pendent on the effect of complementation with non-attributives. Again, Mondorf
(2002, 2003, 2009) should be consulted for further information.
1.	 Some exceptions to this general tendency are described in Rohdenburg (1998).
	 Günter Rohdenburg
Table 2.  Synthetic and analytic comparatives of the adjective stark in a selection of British
newspapers (t90–94, g90–94, d91–94, m93–94).
I
starker
II
more stark
III
total
IV
% more stark
1. attributive uses 87 11   98 11.2%
2. non-attributive uses 78 55 133 41.4%
Table 3.  Synthetic and analytic comparatives of the adjective full in the BNC,
the Guardian for 1990–1995 and the Daily Telegraph for 1991–1995.
I
fuller
II
more full
III
total
IV
% more full
1.  attributive uses 1278   2 1280   0.2%
2.  non-attributive uses
a.  all examples   249 43   292 14.7%
b. 
presence of complements
(realized by of-phrases)
   22 29    51 56.9%
c.  absence of complements 227 14 241   5.8%
In this paper, I want to investigate the question of whether both tendencies are ap-
plicable to the related domain of modification by dual form intensifiers. In addi-
tion to the quotations in OED2, the database used for this study consists of several
years of British and American newspapers from the 1990s (1,381,643,021 words),
the BNC (100,000,000 words), and a sizeable collection of historical datasets pro-
vided by Chadwyck-Healey (83,310,037 words).
2.	 The contrast between attributive and non-attributive adjectives
Exploring the first constraint, Section 2 compares examples like (4a) and (4b),
which contain attributive and non-attributive adjectives, respectively.
	 (4)	 a.	 He is of exceeding fluent talk. (OED, 1857)
		 b.	 She seems to me to be exceedingly pretty. (OED, 1847)
Based on the behaviour of the comparative rivals in Tables 2 and 3, the expectation
is that non-attributive uses such as (4b) are more likely to be associated with suf-
fixed intensifiers than attributive ones like (4a). As a first step in the inquiry, a
distinction was drawn between the attributive and non-attributive adjectives in
the pilot study summarized in Table 1. The results, shown in Table 4, leave no
doubt that in Modern English as a whole there has indeed been a general tendency
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
Table 4.  41 dual form intensifiers modifying attributive and non-attributive adjectives
in the headword entries of the OED.
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
1.  attributive adjectives   81 20 101 19.8%
2.  non-attributive adjectives 109 84 193 43.5%
for intensifiers modifying non-attributive adjectives to be suffixed more frequent-
ly than those involving attributive ones.
What remains to be done is to demonstrate that such contrasts are character-
istic of virtually all intensifiers and that the tendency is not limited to any particu-
lar era. With this in mind, a total of eleven intensifiers (including whole/wholly in
a special collocation) have been subjected to specific analyses in a variety of data-
bases for different subperiods, thus covering Modern English as a whole. These
items include the six types in (5a), whose zero variants are obsolete or obsolescent
in Standard English today and another five in (5b), which are still current in pres-
ent-day Standard English.
	 (5)	 a.	 exceeding (1535–1887), excessive (1569–1796), extreme (1593–1816),
prodigious (1676–1804), terrible (c1489–1959[non-standard]), vast
(1687–1790)
		 b.	 awful (1818–1923), devilish (1612–1886), mighty (a1300–1958), real
(1827–1976), a whole different way of life/whole different issues etc.
In fact, three items in the second group, awful, real and whole (not dealt with in
this use in any headword entry of OED2) represent Late Modern English innova-
tions. The bracketed dates appended to the items in (5a-b) refer to the earliest and
most recent relevant quotations in the headword entries for all types of modified
elements and give a first indication of the split.
Let us start by taking a closer look at four intensifiers of the first category, that
of (5a). Figure 1 summarizes the evolution of exceeding(ly) for the two adjectival
uses between the 16th and 20th centuries in four narrative databases.2 This allows
us to make two general observations. First, there is a steady increase of the suffixed
intensifier up to the early 19th century, and second, there is indeed a clear-cut
contrast between the intensifier variants in the expected direction. The contrast
must have become neutralized by the 20th century, with the zero form being
phased out in both attributive and non-attributive environments.
2.	 In this and the following figures, the raw frequencies given (N) indicate the intensifier totals
including both suffixed and suffixless forms, and the columns represent the percentages of the
suffixed forms concerned.
	 Günter Rohdenburg
N = 101
N = 18
N = 33
N = 42
N = 15
N = 280
N = 152
N = 73
N = 204 N = 46
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
EEPF
(1518–1700)
1%–18.6%
ECF
(1701–1756)
5.6%–31.6%
ECF2
(1741–1780)
18.2%–72.6%
NCF1
(1782-1840)
42.9% -95.6%
BNC:wridom1
(1960-1993)
100% -100%
Attributives
Non-attributives
Figure 1.  Exceeding(ly) modifying attributive and non-attributive adjectives
in a series of historical databases (excluding 2 examples in the BNC reproducing
or echoing Milton and Shakespeare).
The other five intensifiers in (5a) display largely similar (though sometimes faster)
developments. Moreover, they also involve striking contrasts between the two ad-
jectival contexts wherever there are sufficient data and where the overall rate of -ly
suffixing is neither too low nor too high. Consider, for instance, the analyses de-
voted to extreme(ly), terrible/terribly and prodigious(ly) in Tables 5 and 6 and
Figure 2, respectively.3
This brings us to the items in (5b), which can be fruitfully analysed in present-
day English. All of them display clear-cut contrasts between attributive and non-
attributive contexts in sufficiently large databases. Here, we will confine ourselves
to three representative case studies. In general, the zero forms can be regarded as
relatively informal or colloquial. Turning first to the survey of awful/awfully in
Table 7 we find, accordingly, that fiction features a higher percentage of suffixed
forms than spoken English. Crucially, however, in both fiction and spoken English,
there is a striking difference between the two adjectival environments, with spo-
ken English providing a sharper contrast than fiction.
3.	 In the case of extreme(ly) in Table 5, the search has been restricted in several ways. Concern-
ing attributives, only the adjectives good, bad, great, ill and cold have been retrieved completely.
The remaining items are confined to those immediately following the definite and indefinite ar-
ticles. The category of non-attributives is represented only by predicatives immediately preceded
by the following forms of the verb be: am, ‘m, is, are, was, were, be, been, being.
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
Table 5.  Extreme(ly) modifying attributive and non-attributive adjectives in two
historical databases.
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
A. EEPF (1518–1700)
1. attributives 10    1 11 9.1%
2. non-attributives (represented
by predicatives)
34   72 106 67.9%
B. ECF1 (1705–1756)
1. attributives (average number
of syllables)
10
(1.3)
   9
(2.6)
19
(1.9)
47.4%
2. non-attributives 17 418 435 96.1%
Table 6.  Terrible/terribly modifying attributive and non-attributive adjectives in three
historical stages of the EPD.
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
A. authors born in the 17th century
1. attributives 12 – 12    0%
2. non-attributives   2   4   6 66.7%
B. authors born in the 18th century
1. attributives 22   2 24   8.3%
2. non-attributives   2 19 21 90.5%
C. authors born in the 19th century
1. attributives   2   3   5    60%
2. non-attributives   1 27 28 96.4%
As is often pointed out, the zero intensifier real is more typical of American than
British English (cf., e.g., Rohdenburg & Schlüter 2009: 367). The assumption has
been checked and confirmed for several items in both adjectival environments,
which again involve the expected contrast. For instance, consider the data for
real(ly) tough in Table 8.
This takes us to the most recent case of intensifier variation featuring whole/
wholly and two more options, a whole lot/heap, as illustrated in (6a-c).
	 (6)	 a.	 This is a whole different problem.
		 b.	 This is a wholly different problem.
		 c.	 The problem is wholly/a whole lot/a whole heap different.
	 Günter Rohdenburg
N = 11 N = 16
N = 23
N = 22
N = 26
N = 18
N = 44
N = 19
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
EPD (authors
born in the
16th and 17th c.)
0%–76.9%
ECF
(1705–1780)
0%–83.3%
NCF1
(1782–1840)
47.8%–72.2%
NCF2
(1826–1903)
40.9%–94.7%
Attributives
Non-attributives
Figure 2.  Prodigious(ly) modifying attributive and non-attributive adjectives in a series
of historical databases.
Table 7.  Awful(ly) modifying attributive and non-attributive adjectives in the fictional
component and the two spoken components of the BNC.*
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
A. fiction (=wridom1)
1. attributives 14   30   44 68.2%
2. non-attributives 16 152 168 90.5%
B. spokcont + spokdem
1. attributives 32    6   38 15.8%
2. non-attributives 28   78 106 73.6%
*As usual, the analysis excludes any past participles and adjectives derived from past participles.
The use of whole in examples like (6a), contrasting with those such as (6b-c), most
likely represents an American innovation, which is not even recognized in OED2.
As can be seen in Table 9, it is the zero variant in particular that is much more
common in American than British English (cf. also Rohdenburg & Schlüter 2009:
367–368). Here, too, we can observe a striking affinity of the suffixed variant for
non-attributive adjectives. In fact, as several other analyses have confirmed, the
zero form is even excluded from these environments. By contrast, the emphatic
variants a whole lot/heap, which are also more common in American English, only
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
Table 8.  Real(ly) modifying the adjective tough in a British and an American newspaper.§
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
A. Guardian for 1990–2000
1. attributives 26
(16/10)
88
(29/59)
114
(45/69)
77.2%
(64.4%/85.5%)
2. non-attributives 11 111 122 91.0%
B. Los Angeles Times for 1992–1995
1. attributives 132
(70/62)
108
(46/62)
240
(116/124)
45%
(39.7%/50%)
2. non-attributives 119 246 365 67.4%
§ The bracketed figures distinguish between predicating NPs and all others.
Table 9.  Whole/wholly and a whole lot/heap modifying the (comparative) adjective
different in a British and an American newspaper.ǂ
I
whole
II
wholly
III
a whole lot/heap
IV
total
A. BrE: t90–95
1.  attributives 33 = 29.7%
(11/22)
78=70.3%
(1/77)
– 111
2.  non-attributives 37=97.4% 1=2.6% 38
B. AmE: L96–99
1.  attributives 319 = 92.2%
(32/287)
27= 7.8%
(0/27)
– 346
2.  non-attributives - 5= 23.8% 16=76.2% 21
ǂThe bracketed figures distinguish between two categories of head nouns, ball game/ballgame and all others.
occur with non-attributive adjectives. There are some further syntactic constraints
on the use of whole, which may be due, in part, to its fairly recent adoption as an
intensifier in cases like (6a). For instance, unlike wholly, it is rarely found – even in
American English – in association with (determinerless) plural nouns and not at
all with different + (determinerless) mass nouns in the British and American news-
papers analysed. Finally, as is suggested by the contrast between the head noun
ball game/ballgame and all remaining ones, the nouns associated with (attributive
uses of) whole different seem to be more restricted lexically than those following
wholly different. Not surprisingly, the contrast is much more pronounced in British
than American English.
	 Günter Rohdenburg
3.	 Intensified adjectives with or without complements
Focusing on the second constraint, this section contrasts non-attributive adjec-
tives with or without complements as in examples (7a-b).
	 (7)	 a.	 The conversation of the English abroad, is wonderfullie pleasing unto
strangers. (OED, 1647)
		 b.	 ..., wch makes the Book wonderfull curious. (OED, 1722)
Based on the behaviour of comparatives, we would now expect intensifiers preced-
ing adjectives with complements as in (7a) to be more frequently suffixed than
those followed by uncomplemented adjectives as in (7b). Let us begin by taking
another look at the pilot study involving 41 intensifiers in the headword entries of
the OED. Splitting up the non-attributive uses given in Table 4, we obtain the re-
sults shown in Table 10.
Though there is a contrast in the expected direction, it is very far from conclusive.
However, given the first parallel between comparatives and intensified adjectives,
the second constraint deserves to be pursued for individual intensifiers in larger
historical databases.
Turning first to exceeding(ly) in Figure 3, we do find robust contrasts confirm-
ing the hypothesis for the narrative databases analyzed up to the second part of the
ECF. These contrasts are straightforwardly accounted for by the Complexity
Principle, which says that cognitively more complex environments favour the
choice of more explicit grammatical variants (cf., e.g., Rohdenburg 1996).
In general, the figures for complemented adjectives are very low (cf. Table 10),
which reduces, of course, the chance of discovering significant contrasts like those
in Figure 3. However, I have discovered some other clear-cut contrasts of this kind.
Three of these are shown in Figure 4.
In addition, a number of further, though weaker contrasts of this type have been
found. Significantly, no clear-cut contrary tendencies have been identified so far.
Table 10.  41 intensifiers modifying non-attributive adjectives with or without
complements in the headword entries of the OED.
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
1. presence of complements 16 14   30 46.7%
2. absence of complements 93 70 163 42.9%
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
[+ Complement]
[–Complement]
N = 99
N = 52
N = 19
N = 70
N = 170
N = 100
N = 54
N = 128
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
EEPF
(1518–1700)
28.3% -14.1%
ECF1
(1705–1756)
48.1%–23%
ECF2
(1741–1780)
84.2%–68.5%
NCF1
(1782–1840)
95.7%–95.3%
Figure 3.  Exceeding(ly) modifying non-attributive adjectives in a series of historical
narrative databases.
Presence of complements
Absence of complements
N = 35
N = 60
N = 12
N = 67
N = 46
N = 31
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Excessive(ly)
in NCF1
(1782–1840)
94.3%–77.6%
Extreme(ly) in
EEPF (1518–1700)
75%–58.7%
Prodigious(ly)
in NCF1
(1782–1840)
83.3%–67.8%
Figure 4.  Three further intensifiers modifying non-attributive adjectives in selected
historical databases.
	 Günter Rohdenburg
4.	 Discussion
We have seen that – throughout the Modern English period – dual form intensi-
fiers modifying adjectives parallel the behaviour of adjectival comparison in two
important respects. First, the more explicit variants, analytic comparatives and
suffixed intensifiers, are both attracted to predicative and other non-attributive
adjectives, with attributive adjectives favouring the less explicit variants, synthetic
comparatives and suffixless intensifiers. Second, complemented adjectives also
tend to promote the more explicit option with both phenomena, though appar-
ently less strongly in the case of intensified adjectives. As mentioned before, the
second parallel can be explained in terms of the Complexity Principle. By contrast,
accounts of the first parallel relating to the differential effects produced by attribu-
tive and non-attributive adjectives have proved to be rather more controversial.
Several theories can be and have been invoked to explain these tendencies. In the
following, three important ones will be briefly assessed.
There is first of all a prosodic account in terms of the Principle of Rhythmic
Alternation, which has been mooted by several people including Schlüter (2002:
261–262) and myself (Rohdenburg 2004: 354–359). For dual form intensifiers, the
principle implies that preference should be given to those intensifier variants that
avoid stress clashes and, less importantly, to those that avert stress lapses. However,
the situation may be complicated by the phenomenon of “prosodic overshadow-
ing” explored in depth by Schlüter (2005) for a range of phenomena. Thus, any
contrasts between attributive and non-attributive adjectives can be expected to
involve only the potential for attributive adjectives to be ‘overshadowed prosodi-
cally’ or weakened by immediately following nouns. Obviously, this limits greatly
the scope for attributive and non-attributive adjectives to influence the choice of
intensifier variants. Concerning the rivalry between the comparative variants,
Mondorf (2009) argues that rhythmic tendencies play only a subordinate role
within the network of linguistic constraints. As to intensifier variation preceding
attributive and non-attributive adjectives, the situation may be very similar. Con-
sider in this respect the findings shown in Table 11, which classifies the 41 OED-
derived zero forms in Tables 1 and 4 into four prosodic subtypes.
Subtype A features monosyllabic and finally-stressed items, which would pro-
duce stress clashes with most (i.e. initially-stressed and immediately following)
adjectives. The contrast between attributive and non-attributive adjectives shown
here as well as for extreme(ly), real(ly), and whole/wholly in Tables 5, 8 and 9 would
appear to be in line with the Principle of Rhythmic Alternation if we assume, fol-
lowing Schlüter (2002, 2005), that attributive adjectives tend to be rhythmically
overshadowed by immediately following nouns.
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
Table 11.  Classifying the 41 dual form intensifiers presented in Tables 1 and 4 into four
prosodic subtypes.
I
Ø
II
-ly
III
total
IV
% -ly
A. a.  great, real, vast, huge, main
b.  immense, extreme
1. attributives
(a/b)
15
(12/3)
6
(4/2)
21
(16/5)
28.6%
(25%/40%)
2. non-attributives
(a/b)
20
(15/5)
21
(14/7)
41
(29/12)
51.2%
(48.3%/58.3%)
B. a.  bitter, precious, wondrous etc. (N=18)
b.  exceeding, excessive, prodigious etc. (N=6)
1. attributives
(a/b)
48
(37/11)
10
(3/7)
58
(40/18)
17.2%
(7.5%/38.5%)
2. non-attributives
(a/b)
69
(55/14)
36
(22/14)
105
(77/28)
34.3%
(28.6%/5%)
C. horrible, intolerable, terrible etc. (N=6)
1. attributives 11 1 12   8.3%
2. non-attributives 11 21 32 65.6%
D. extraordinary, singular, marvellous, wonderful
1 attributives 7 3 10 30%
2 non-attributives 9 6 15 40%
Subtype B, representing by far the largest group, comprises bisyllabic and trisyl-
labic zero intensifiers which are stressed on the penultimate syllable. Combined
with most (i.e. initially-stressed) non-attributive adjectives, they appear to real-
ize the rhythmic ideal of alternating stressed and unstressed syllables. By con-
trast, with attributive adjectives potentially overshadowed prosodically by nouns,
sequences such as exceeding + destressed adjective may produce some kind of
stress lapse. Now it might be assumed that an ideal rhythmic constellation as in
the first scenario involving non-attributive adjectives is more resistant to being
altered by the addition of the unstressed suffix than the second constellation
featuring attributives, which typically is far from ideal anyway. It turns out, how-
ever, that neither the results in Table 11 nor those in Figures 1 and 2 and Table 7
for exceeding(ly), prodigious(ly), and awful(ly), respectively, display the expected
reversal of the pervasive tendency favouring the -ly suffix in non-attributive
environments.
What is more, there are a number of dual form intensifiers, assigned to sub-
type C, whose stress patterns typically remain unchanged by the addition of the
	 Günter Rohdenburg
suffix. However, as is also seen in Table 6 devoted to terrible/terribly, these items
exhibit the usual contrast between attributive and non-attributive uses.4
The residual group D, containing four items ending in two unstressed sylla-
bles, will have to be neglected here, since it provides only insufficient data.
On the basis of the evidence surveyed, we must conclude that no clear tenden-
cies have emerged so far in the sense that any of the various stress patterns associ-
ated with dual form intensifiers are particularly characteristic of either attributive
or non-attributive uses.
The second theory, which is tentatively proposed by Mondorf (2009) for com-
parative variation, is based on arguments advanced by Bolinger (1967) and Ferris
(1993). Briefly, predicative and postnominal adjectives are said to be more
likely than attributives to provide additional and unexpected information. With
respect to gradable adjectives as in (8a-b), it can be shown, following Chafe (1970:
120–122, 194–196), that this assumption is supported by systematic contrasts be-
tween the two classes of environment.
	 (8)	 a.	 This is an expensive painting.
		 b.	 This painting is expensive (for a birthday present/an item to be in-
sured/an object to be shipped overseas).
In (8a), the interpretation of expensive is tied to the headword painting, but in (8b)
its interpretation may – in addition to the noun painting – be related to an un-
specified number of entities. As pointed out by Mondorf, the contrast appears to
be covered by Givόn`s (1991: 87) Quantity Principle, whose second maxim says
that “Less predictable information will be given more coding material.”
I find this argumentation quite attractive, since it is also in line with the Com-
plexity Principle. However, I am even more inclined to favour an account which
extends to the behaviour of intensifiers modifying verb phrases while including
the gist of the second theory based on Bolinger’s and Ferris’s observations. Ac-
cording to Fischer (2001, 2011: 419), the semantic-pragmatic differences between
attributive and non-attributive adjectives reflect a cline of verbality, with attribu-
tives being less verbal than non-attributives. The assumption is supported by syn-
tactic differences. Unlike attributive adjectives, non-attributives may freely take
complements and adjuncts like verbs. We have seen, then, that the supposedly
more verbal non-attributive adjectives encourage higher shares of suffixed intensi-
fiers than less verbal attributives. On this basis, we would now expect intensifiers
modifying verb phrases to trigger even higher rates of adverbial marking. And the
4.	 Category C does not include the items ending in the suffix -ful, whose suffixed counterparts
might also involve the same number of syllables. At any rate, their inclusion would not have
materially affected the parallel behaviour of the three categories A, B and C.
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
results in Table 1 clearly bear out this expectation. Similarly, the strikingly parallel
behaviour of intensifiers modifying attributive adjectives and (most kinds of) ad-
verbs seems to fall into place. Unlike non-attributive adjectives, adverbs clearly
represent a far from verbal category. Finally, the verbality cline concept may also
cover the contrast between non-attributives with or without complements. As is
done by Fischer (2001), adjectives modified by prepositional phrases may be treat-
ed as more verbal than those without. At this stage, we are left wondering whether
the facts uncovered may ultimately be accounted for by the actualization theory
advanced in De Smet (2012), who interprets the differential spread of certain
grammaticalization processes across various environments in terms of functional
and semantic similarity relations.
5.	 Conclusions
Throughout the Modern English period, including the present time, suffixed and
suffixless variants of intensifiers such as exceeding(ly), extreme(ly), awful(ly), whole/
wholly and real(ly) have displayed distinctly different distributional affinities, with
zero intensifiers preferring adjective and adverb heads and -ly adverbs tending to
occur with verbal and participial heads (cf., e.g., Nevalainen 1994, 2008). Building
on these insights, this paper explores two novel and more delicate syntactic con-
straints on the occurrence of dual form intensifiers, which happen to be paralleled
by the choice between synthetic and analytic comparatives like prouder and more
proud (Mondorf 2009).
There is, first of all, a clear-cut contrast between attributive adjectives on the
one hand and predicative or postnominal uses on the other, which appears to be
semantically motivated and to reflect a cline of verbality (cf., e.g., Fischer 2001).
Specifically, non-attributive uses, which may be assumed to be more verbal than
attributives, are more likely to be attracted to both the – more explicitly marked –
analytic comparative and the formally marked intensifier. In addition, within the
domain of non-attributive structures, adjectives complemented by clauses or
prepositional phrases tend to prefer the more explicit option with both variation
phenomena. It has to be stressed, though, that in the case of intensifier variation
both of these constraints can only be observed to be operative as long as the two
kinds of potentially contrasting uses (+/- attributive adjective; +/- complemented
[non-attributive] adjective) are sufficiently common and to the extent that the dia-
chronic process of -ly generalization has not neutralized any previous contrasts.
Owing to the infrequency of complemented adjectives modified by a dual form
intensifier, the second constraint, which turns out to be weaker than the first any-
way, is extremely difficult to verify, in particular for present-day English.
	 Günter Rohdenburg
The second constraint can be straightforwardly accounted for in terms of the
Complexity Principle (cf., e.g., Rohdenburg 1996). The principle stipulates that
cognitively more complex environments favour the choice of more explicit gram-
matical variants. However, given that the less verbal attributives typically reject
any form of complement, it could also be argued that predicative and postnominal
uses with complements are more verbal than those without.
There are plenty of avenues for further research. In addition to exploring
in more detail De Smet’s (2012) actualization theory (referred to in Section 5)
and clarifying the exact status of present participles and adjectives derived
from them (see Section 1), at least the following system-internal constraints
on intensifier variation will have to be dealt with more systematically in future
analyses.
1.	 The class of adverbs modified by intensifiers is less homogeneous than has
hitherto been assumed. Thus the items well and ill in construction with past
participles or adjectives derived from them as in (9) tend to behave like past
participles rather than the remaining adverbs. In other words, they favour
marked intensifiers rather than unmarked ones.
	 (9)	 ..., as I find he is extremely well acquainted with the whole unhappy story;
... (ECF, 1748)
2.	 Furthermore, prepositional phrases as in (10), which typically function as
predicative expressions, have been neglected in the past. These have always
displayed a striking affinity for the suffixed intensifier as well.
	 (10)	 ...; and lady Speck, who was extremely out of humour, ... (ECF, 1753)
3.	 Noun phrases fulfil a number of different clausal functions, and these may be
reflected in differential tendencies for adverbial marking in intensifiers modi-
fying attributive adjectives.
For instance, intensifiers associated with predicating NPs (including object pred-
icatives) as in (11a) are less likely to favour adverbial marking than those modify-
ing adjectives in other NP functions such as direct objects as in (11b).
	 (11)	 a.	 This is a real(ly) tough problem.
		 b.	 She managed to solve a real(ly) tough problem.
In Table 8, this kind of contrast is indicated by the figures given in brackets. Now
it would be interesting to see whether such distinctions within the category of at-
tributives are also found in the case of comparative variation.
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
4.	 Finally, going beyond strictly syntactic constraints, we can observe further
parallels to comparative variation regarding the formal complexity of the adjec-
tives involved. Thus it can be shown that intensifier marking may also be sensi-
tive to the length of the adjectives modified. For instance, in part B of Table 5,
the bracketed figures indicate the average number of syllables of the attributive
adjectives involved. Strikingly, the suffixed intensifiers modify adjectives that
are on average twice as long as those following the zero intensifiers.
Sources
BNC = British National Corpus 1995. Version 1.0. BNC Consortium/ Oxford University Com-
puting Services. (100,000,000 words)
d91–95 = Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph on CD-ROM 1991–1995. Chadwyck-Healey/
ProQuest. (127,906,347 words)
ECF = Eighteenth-Century Fiction 1996 Chadwyck-Healey. (9,702,696 words, omitting dupli-
cates)
ECF1 = First part of the ECF containing only those authors born in the 17th century (*1660–
*1699).
ECF2 = Second part of the ECF containing only those authors born in the 18th century (*1700–
*1752).
EEPF = Early English Prose Fiction 1997–2000 Chadwyck-Healey. In association with the Salz-
burg Centre for Research on the English Novel SCREEN. (9,562,865 words)
EPD = English Prose Drama 1996–1997. Chadwyck-Healey. (26,454,639 words)
g90–00	 = Guardian (including The Observer 1994–2000) on CD-ROM 1990–2000. Chadwyck-
Healey/ProQuest. (387,188,793 words)
L92–95 = Los Angeles Times on CD-ROM 1992–1995. Knight Ridder Information Inc.
(320,016,164 words)
L96–99 = Los Angeles Times 1996–1999 (courtesy of The Los Angeles Times Editorial Library).
(275,506,490 words)
m93–94 = Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday on CD-ROM 1993–1994.Chadwyck-Healey.
(38,294,700 words)
NCF = Nineteenth-CenturyFiction. 1999–2000. Chadwyck-Healey. (37,589,837 words)
NCF1 = First part of the NCF containing only those authors born in the 18th century (*1728
-*1799).
NCF2 = Second part of the NCF containing only those authors born in the 19th century (*1800
-*1869).
OED on CD-ROM = The Oxford English Dictionary (Second Edition) on CD-ROM 1992 (Ver-
sion 1.10). Edited by John A. Simpson and Edmund S.C. Weiner. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
spokcont = spoken context-governed component of the BNC. (5,945,882 words)
spokdem = spoken demographic component of the BNC. (4,635,447 words)
t90–95 = The Times and The Sunday Times on CD-ROM 1990–1994. Chadwyck-Healey/Pro-
Quest. (232,730,527 words)
wridom1 = fictional/narrative component of the BNC. (18,863,529 words)
	 Günter Rohdenburg
References
Bolinger, D. 1967. Adjectives in English: Attribution and predication. Lingua 18: 1–34. DOI:
10.1016/0024-3841(67)90018-6
Chafe, W.L. 1970. Meaning and the Structure of Language. Chicago IL: The University of Chicago
Press.
De Smet, H. 2012. The course of actualization. Language 88: 601–633. DOI: 10.1353/lan.
2012.0056
Donner, M. 1991. Adverb form in Middle English. English Studies 72: 1–11. DOI: 10.1080/0013
8389108598729
Ferris, C. 1993. The Meaning of Syntax: A Study in the Adjectives of English. London: Longman.
Fischer, O. 2001. The position of the adjective in (Old) English from an iconic perspective. In
The Motivated Sign [Iconicity in Language and Literature 2], O. Fischer & M. Nänny (eds),
249–276. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.2.19fis
Fischer, O. 2011. Review of Mondorf (2009). Language 87: 416–420. DOI: 10.1353/lan.2011.
0050
Givón, T. 1991. Isomorphism in the grammatical code: Cognitive and biological considerations.
Studies in Language 15: 85–114. DOI: 10.1075/sl.15.1.04giv
Mondorf, B. 2002. The effect of prepositional complements on the choice of synthetic or ana-
lytic comparatives. In Perspectives on Prepositions, H. Cuyckens & G. Radden (eds), 66–78.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Mondorf, B. 2003. Support for more-support. In Determinants of Grammatical Variation in Eng-
lish, G. Rohdenburg & B. Mondorf (eds), 251–304. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI:
10.1515/9783110900019
Mondorf, B. 2007. Recalcitrant problems of comparative alternation and new insights emerging
from internet data. In Corpus Linguistics and the Web, M. Hundt, N. Nesselhauf & C. Biew-
er (eds), 211–232. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Mondorf, B. 2009. More Support for More-Support. The Role of Processing Constraints on the
Choice between Synthetic and Analytic Comparative Forms [Studies in Language Variation
4]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/silv.4
Nevalainen, T. 1994. Aspects of adverbial change in Early Modern English. In Studies in Early
Modern English, D. Kastovsky (ed.), 243–259. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Nevalainen, T. 2008. Social variation in intensifier use: Constraint on –ly adverbialization in the
past? English Language and Linguistics 12: 289–315. DOI: 10.1017/S1360674308002633
Peters, H. 1994. Degree adverbs in Early Modern English. In Studies in Early Modern English, D.
Kastovsky (ed.), 269–288. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rohdenburg, G. 1996. Cognitive complexity and increased grammatical explicitness in English.
Cognitive Linguistics 7: 149–182. DOI: 10.1515/cogl.1996.7.2.149
Rohdenburg, G. 1998. Attributive adjectives like similar and different involving prepositional
complements. In Language as Structure and Language as Process. In Honour of Gerhard
Nickel on the Occasion of his 70th Birthday, W. Kühlwein (ed.), 63–79. Trier: Wissenschaftli-
cher Verlag.
Rohdenburg, G. 2004. Comparing grammatical variation phenomena in non-standard English
and Low German dialects from a typological perspective. In Dialectology Meets Typology.
Dialect Grammar from a Cross-Linguistic Perspective, B. Kortmann (ed.), 335–366. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
	 Syntactic constraints on dual form intensifiers	 
Rohdenburg, G. & Schlüter, J. 2009. New departures. In One Language, Two Grammars? Differ-
ences between British and American English, G. Rohdenburg & J. Schlüter (eds), 364–423.
Cambridge: CUP.
Schlüter, J. 2002. Morphology recycled: The principle of rhythmic alternation at work in Early
and Late Modern English grammatical variation. In English Historical Syntax and Morphol-
ogy. Selected Papers from 11 ICEHL, Santiago de Compostela, 7–11 September 2000 [Current
Issues in Linguistic Theory 223], T. Fanego, J. Pérez-Guerra & M.J. López-Couso (eds),
255–281. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/cilt.223.15sch
Schlüter, J. 2005. Rhythmic Grammar: The Influence of Rhythm on Grammatical Variation and
Change in English. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110219265
Tagliamonte, S. & Ito, R. 2002. Think really different: Continuity and specialization in the Eng-
lish dual form adverbs. Journal of Sociolinguistics 6: 236–266. DOI: 10.1111/1467-
9481.00186
Ungerer, F. 1988. Syntax der englischen Adverbialen. Tübingen: Niemeyer. DOI: 10.1515/9783111
354538
Ma daddy wis dead chuffed
On the dialectal distribution of the intensifier
dead in Contemporary English
Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
University of Santiago de Compostela
The present paper aims to shed light on the dialectal distribution of the
intensifier dead in four varieties of Present-Day English: American, British,
Irish and Scottish English. For this purpose, data are drawn from the Corpus
of Contemporary American English, the Brigham Young University-British
National Corpus, the Irish component of the International Corpus of English and
the Scottish Corpus of Texts and Speech. A collocational analysis of the adverbial
and adjectival form dead makes it possible to see whether dead takes a literal
reading or is rather used as a grammaticalised intensifier. The paper argues that
intensifying dead is most productive in the Irish and Scottish varieties, followed
by the British and American dialects.
Keywords: dead, intensifiers, subjectification, grammaticalisation
1.	 Introduction1
Intensifiers, as one of the “chief means of emphasis for speakers” (Bolinger 1972:
18), are very prolific mechanisms of intensification (other mechanisms include
1.	 The research reported in this paper received financial support from the Spanish Ministry
for Education and Science (FPU grant, AP2008-03626), the Regional Development Fund, the
Spanish Ministry for Economy and Competitiveness (grant FFI2011-26693-C02-01), and the
Autonomous Government of Galicia (Directorate General for Scientific and Technological
Promotion, grants CN2011-011 and CN2012/012). Thanks are also due to the editors of this
volume and to two anonymous reviewers for their most helpful comments. I also owe special
thanks to Dr. María José López-Couso for her valuable feedback on an earlier version of this
article. Needless to say, all shortcomings and errors remain my sole responsibility.
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
hyperbole, repetition and prosody).2 It is exactly because of this that they lose their
expressive force so quickly, and are thus perfect candidates for processes of re-
newal and ‘recycling’ (cf. Bolinger 1972; Méndez-Naya 2003; Tagliamonte 2008,
among others).
The present paper, however, is not concerned with the renewal or competi-
tion of intensifiers. Instead it focuses on one specific intensifier, dead, and exam-
ines its use in four different varieties of Present-Day English (PDE), American,
British, Irish, and Scottish English, in this way adding to data provided by
Macaulay (2006) and Barnfield and Buchstaller (2010) for Glaswegian and Tyne-
side English, respectively.
2.	 Sources of data
Evidence has been drawn from a number of corpora. For varieties within the Brit-
ish Isles I have used the Scottish Corpus of Texts and Speech (henceforth SCOTS),
the Irish component of the International Corpus of English (ICE-Ireland) and the
Brigham Young University-British National Corpus (hereafter BYU-BNC). Data on
American English have been retrieved from the Corpus of Contemporary American
English (COCA).
SCOTS contains over 4 million words (4,593,555) of Scots and Scottish
English, distributed over 1,100 written and spoken texts. 80% of the corpus repre-
sents written data, and only 20% spoken language. Compiled at the University of
Glasgow, this corpus covers the period 1945 to the present day, although in fact
most of the spoken documents were recorded after 2000. The materials included
in the corpus also reflect different genres (parliamentary records, personal and
business correspondence, literary texts, newspaper articles, personal diaries, etc.),
sociolinguistic backgrounds, and geographical locations.
The Irish component of the International Corpus of English (ICE-Ireland), de-
veloped by John M. Kirk (Queen’s University Belfast) and Jeffrey L. Kallen (Trinity
College Dublin), provides written and spoken data for the study of present-day
Irish English, from both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. It includes
300 transcribed spoken texts from different discourse situations, ranging from the
more formal parliamentary debates and legal cross-examinations to more infor-
mal face-to-face and telephone conversations, as well as 200 written texts. The
2.	 Bolinger defined intensification as “the linguistic expression of exaggeration and deprecia-
tion” (1972: 20), which can be achieved not only through intensifiers or degree words, as he la-
bels them, but also through figures of speech, prosody or repetition.
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
written materials vary from academic essays and business letters to news and per-
sonal letters. In total, the spoken and written texts number 1,079,775 words.
The BYU-BNC is a 100-million-word corpus of written and spoken British
English from the latter part of the twentieth century (from the 1980s to 1993),
based on the British National Corpus from Oxford University Press, but enhanced
with the architecture and interface familiar from other corpora created by Mark
Davies (Brigham Young University). The written component accounts for the
overwhelming majority of the corpus (90%), while the spoken component repre-
sents just 10%. The written part includes, among others, extracts from books,
newspapers, journals and personal correspondence. In turn, the spoken part in-
cludes recorded conversations, business and government meetings, and radio
shows, thus allowing for a wide range of accents, ages and social groups.
Finally, COCA, compiled by Mark Davies, contains over 450 million words of
American English and includes both written and spoken material from 1990 to 2012.
The spoken data amount to 95 million words, and are taken from conversations, TV
and radio shows, while the written material includes texts from popular magazines,
newspapers, academic and fictional texts, and comprises 355 million words.
These corpora, then, are largely comparable, both in the selection of spoken
and written texts, and in the time periods covered. Thus, COCA, ICE-Ireland and
SCOTS cover mainly the 1990s and 2000s, although SCOTS does contain some
published works from 1945 onwards. BYU-BNC also covers the early years of the
1990s (up to 1993), but the majority of the material here dates from the 1980s. All
these corpora, then, are broadly comparable in terms of their composition
(including textual genres, age and sociolinguistic background of speakers) and
time frame, and provide a useful basis for the current research.
3.	 Discussion of the data
3.1	 Preliminary remarks
The intensifier dead, meaning ‘completely, absolutely, quite’, as in example (1) be-
low, is not a recent addition to the paradigm of English intensifiers, having been
present in the system since at least the Early Modern English period (1500–1650)
(cf. (2) below).
	 (1)	 Ma daddy wis dead chuffed.
		 (SCOTS. 2001. Anne Donovan. All that glisters)
	 (2)	 Oh he is olde dogge at expounding, and deade sure at a Catechisme. (1589,
OED, s.v. dead adv. 2a)
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
In fact, it seems that dead has developed along the path of manner adverb > inten-
sifier (cf. Peters 1994), in that it was originally an adjective (‘deprived of life’) and
a manner adverb (‘in a manner, or to a degree, characteristic of or suggesting
death’), then becoming grammaticalised as an intensifier (‘completely, absolutely,
quite’) in Early Modern English times (cf. Blanco-Suárez 2013).
Macaulay (2006), in his analysis of pure and teenage intensifiers in Glasgow,
notes that intensifying dead has experienced a drastic reduction since 1997, hav-
ing recently been substituted by pure. Barnfield and Buchstaller (2010) also claim
that dead has been replaced by so in the Tyneside area. Bearing these studies in
mind, the present paper sets out to expand the analysis of dead to other varieties
of contemporary English, in particular Scottish, Irish, British and American
English, and to determine the degree of productivity of this intensifier in the vari-
eties concerned. In order to carry out the analysis, I will examine the occurrences
of dead in both its adverbial and adjectival forms and its collocations in the differ-
ent corpora. A collocational analysis will make it possible to see whether dead is
used primarily as an intensifier or whether, by contrast, it functions as a manner
adverb or as an adjective with a literal meaning. Potential dialectal differences in
the uses of the form may also be revealed in the study.
Examining all occurrences of dead in the BYU-BNC and COCA would clearly
fall beyond the scope of the present paper, given that dead appears 11,894 and
69,386 times, respectively. Hence, I have limited the search to those instances in
which dead is annotated as a degree modifier in these two very large corpora, the
search item thus being [dead].[RG].3
After restricting the search, BYU-BNC returned 994 instances of dead, and
COCA some 4,804 examples. These were then manually pruned, with examples
being discarded for a variety of reasons. I have not considered, for example, in-
stances in which dead is found in predicative position, as in (3), those with dead as
a noun head, as in (4), and cases in which dead occurs within a phrase as part of a
proper noun, as in the title of a film (cf. 5 below). Finally, I did not include the set
phrase dead white (European) male(s), which occurred in both corpora, this being
a fixed derogatory phrase referring to notable male figures in Western cultural his-
tory, especially writers and philosophers, whose works or achievements are stud-
ied in schools and universities in the West (cf. OED, s.v. DWEM n.).
	 (3)	 Burglar shot dead near their room.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1985–1994. The Daily Mirror)
	 (4)	 We buried the dead – we were at it for most of a day –
		 (BYU-BNC. 1991. David Craig. King Cameron)
3.	 In Mark Davies’s corpora the tag RG stands for ‘degree adverb’. It must be noted, however,
that there are examples which have been tagged as such but which show the adjective dead
rather than the adverb dead. Cf. examples (9), (10) and (11) below.
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
	 (5)	 PHOTO (COLOR): Scene from Dead Calm # (COCA. 1998. Jack Crowl,
Corie Brown, and Yahlin Chang. Nicole takes off)
Regarding the other two corpora, a total of 156 examples of dead were found in
ICE-Ireland, and 257 in SCOTS. As was the case for COCA and BYU-BNC,
however, I discarded those cases in which dead was found in predicative func-
tion, as well as those examples where dead appeared as part of a proper noun
(cf. Table 1).
In essence, I have looked at all the tokens in which adverbial or adjectival dead
modifies the immediately following word (noun, adjective, adverb or preposition-
al phrase). The total number of examples analysed and discarded in each of the
corpora selected is given in Table 1.
Following Adamson (2000), I have classified the meanings of the collocations
of dead into three different categories of meaning: descriptive, subjective and in-
tensifying. This taxonomy, which reflects a common cline in the evolution of in-
tensifiers, and which also seems to hold true in the case of dead (cf. Blanco-Suárez
2013), will serve to determine the form’s productivity as an intensifier and its de-
gree of grammaticalisation. Descriptive meanings of the adverb or adjective denote
the uses of dead with a literal meaning (‘in a manner, or to a degree, characteristic
of death’), as illustrated in (6), in which dead describes a woman who has passed
away. Subjective or affective uses of dead refer to those meanings which still con-
vey or suggest death to a certain extent, but which do not necessarily involve it,
frequently indicating qualities such as paleness, stillness, or lack of movement, as
in (7). In this example, from the subjective perspective of the speaker/writer it is
conveyed that somebody is so tired that s/he is or feels as if they are dead, that is,
tired to death although not actually dead. Finally, I take intensifying meanings of
dead to be those uses which are completely grammaticalised and in which the
original death-related values no longer apply. In example (8), for instance, the col-
location dead nice does not evoke death-related values at all, but is used to describe
something as extremely nice.
Table 1.  Total number of tokens of dead (analysed and discarded) in BYU-BNC, COCA,
ICE-Ireland and SCOTS.
BYU-BNC COCA ICE-IRELAND SCOTS
Total analysed 592 2,337   56 107
Total discarded 402 2,467 100 150
Total number of
occurrences
994 4,804 156 257
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
	 (6)	 The dead woman was twenty year old Margaret Wilson who lived at the
flat. 1990–1994 (ICE-Ireland. 1990–1994 <S2B-003$M>)
	 (7)	 The important point about Maastricht is that they came to agreement at 3
o’clock in the morning on 16 December 1992, when they were  dead
tired and they signed on the bottom line. (SCOTS. 14 September 1999.
Scottish Parliament. Official report)
	 (8)	 So it seems, and it’s dead nice (SCOTS. 2005 Conversation 26: Two fe-
males from Glasgow talking about weddings)
In the remainder of Section 3 I will consider the three different uses of dead
(descriptive, subjective, and intensifying) in each of the corpora individually, in
order to shed light on real examples of the uses of this form in contemporary
English, and thus to assess its degree of productivity as an intensifier in the dif-
ferent varieties.
3.2	 Dead in BYU-BNC
Over two thirds of the 592 relevant tokens of dead recorded in BYU-BNC
(cf. Table 1 above) correspond to intensifying meanings (67.23%), followed by de-
scriptive (17.06%) and subjective (15.71%) readings (cf. Figure 1 below).
As far as descriptive meanings are concerned, there is a wide range of colloca-
tions of dead, with virtually no repetitions. Most of these occurrences are recorded
in newspapers and magazines, hence the proliferation of references to dead sol-
diers, murders, and also to cells and tissues. An illustrative selection is provided in
(9)–(12) below:
17.06 15.71
67.23
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
BYU-BNC
Descriptive (101)
Subjective (93)
Intensifying (398)
Figure 1.  Percentages for descriptive, subjective, and intensifying readings of dead
in BYU-BNC.
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
	 (9)	 They don’t want another kerfuffle with two dead English tourists on their
hands. (BYU-BNC. 1990. Douglas Rutherford. A game of sudden death)
	 (10)	 These dead cortical cells form what the authors call ‘burned-out plaques’
made of the neurotransmitter’s degradation products.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1985–1994. New Scientist)
	 (11)	 As we entered the village and turned right there were two dead German
soldiers lying in the middle of the road.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1991. Bill Millin. Invasion)
	 (12)	 Roy, the gunman from Rhodesia, had a suede jacket with tassels on the
back and sleeves, and a pair of boots which he swore had been taken from
a dead terrorist.(BYU-BNC. 1990. Christian Jennings. Mouthful of rocks:
through Africa and Corsica in the French Foreign Legion)
In all these cases we can clearly see that dead takes a literal reading: in (9) two British
citizens have been murdered; in (10) the cells in the brain cortex are said to be dead;
and in (11) and (12) two German soldiers and a terrorist, respectively, have died.
Descriptive readings in BYU-BNC, however, can also apply to other less pro-
totypical entities such as a cigarette end (example (13) below) or a star (14). In the
case of the cigarette, it is dead in the sense that it is no longer lit and serving its
normal function, and a dead star is a star or sphere which has lost its brightness
and intensity, and is thus considered to be dead.
	 (13)	 The two rabbits went up to the board at a hopping run and crouched in a
patch of nettles on the far side, wrinkling their noses at the smell of a dead
cigarette-end somewhere in the grass.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1987. Richard Adams. Watership down)
	 (14)	 After an immensely long period of feeble luminosity, the star loses the last
of its light and heat, and becomes a cold, dead Black Dwarf.
		(BYU-BNC. 1990. Patrick Moore. Exploring the night sky with binoculars)
Subjective readings of dead in BYU-BNC reveal a number of collocations which
are recurrent in the corpus, the most frequent being dead white (cf. (15)), with
13 tokens. Further examples of subjective meanings of dead here include combina-
tions with tired (16), drunk (17), calm (18), and still (19):
	 (15)	 It’s not dead white. I hate dead white things! (BYU-BNC. 1992. 40 convs
rec. by ‘Cherrilyn’ (PS06A) between 21 and 26 Feb 1992)
	 (16)	 She was dead tired. Now she had to go home and start her own cooking
and cleaning. (BYU-BNC. 1992. Martina Cole. Dangerous lady)
	 (17)	 Margery was in a hotel two hundred miles away, putting Woolley to bed,
dead drunk after a promotion.
		 (BYU-BNC. Derek Robinson. Goshawk squadron)
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
	 (18)	 She felt as she always did, not fear, but a kind of cold, dead calm, the way
you might feel in a car in which the brakes have gone the moment before
the crash. (BYU-BNC. 1989. Nina Bawden. Tortoise by candlelight)
	 (19)	 He stood dead still, watching the wind ruffled surface of the water.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1988. Ray Pickernell. Yanto’s summer)
All these examples evince qualities or features which conjure up the idea of death
to some extent, hence the label subjective as an intermediate stage before purely
intensifying meanings.4 For instance, paleness and the colour white are associated
with corpses and lifelessness, hence with death; being dead tired means that one is
tired to the point of exhaustion, feeling as if one is about to die, even when this is
not actually the case. Dead drunk in (16) reflects a similar condition, where the
intoxicating effects of alcohol are so debilitating as to reduce someone to a state in
which they feel close to death. Quietness and stillness or lack of movement (cf. (17)
and (18)) are features which go hand in hand with a deadly atmosphere. Nonethe-
less, in none of these cases is death necessarily involved in the context. Instead, it
is the speaker or writer’s point of view which associates these values with death by
metaphorical extension, which points to subjectification (cf. Traugott 1995, 2003,
2010; Traugott & Dasher 2002; López-Couso 2010; Visconti 2013).
Intensifying meanings of dead in the corpus are rather varied, although in
general not yielding a high number of occurrences. Among the most frequent col-
locations we find here are dead straight, dead right, dead easy, dead funny, dead set,
dead boring, and dead good (cf. Table 2).
However, what is more conspicuous regarding collocations with an intensifying
meaning is that dead frequently occurs in combination with words with a positive
semantic prosody (cf. Stubbs 1995), that is, with elements which have a positive
meaning. This is a good indicator of semantic bleaching and grammaticalisation
(cf. Hopper & Traugott 2003), since it implies that dead has become detached from
its death-related connotations and is simply used to mean ‘extremely, completely’.
Thus, we find dead combining with lucky, clear, pretty, simple, chuffed, interesting,
gallus (Scot. ‘brilliant, fantastic’), nice, lived in, ace, cheap, clever, romantic, and sexy,
among others (cf. examples (20)–(23) below). Nevertheless, there are also many
examples in the corpus in which dead is found as a modifier of words with
4.	 In Present-day English the boundaries between subjective and intensifying readings are
even more blurred than in previous stages of the language. In fact, since dead has become gram-
maticalised as an intensifier, it is very difficult in the contemporary language to distinguish
clearly between subjective and intensifying meanings, as in collocations such as dead drunk or
dead tired, where one might think that dead is equivalent to ‘very/extremely’. While I acknowl-
edge this difficulty, I hold that the distinction between the two readings can still be made.
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
Table 2.  The most frequent collocations of dead with subjective and intensifying readings
in BYU-BNC (number of occurrences in brackets).5
Subjective collocations of dead Intensifying collocations of dead
white (13) straight (36) good (11)
tired (11) right (36) lucky (9)
drunk (9) easy (34) simple (9)
still (8) funny (16) chuffed (7)
calm (5) set (16) nice (6)
boring (14) interesting (5)
keen (11) wrong (5)
serious (5)
negative semantic prosody, hence collocations such as dead unlucky, dead disap-
pointed, dead wrong, dead scruffy, dead stupid, dead vicious, dead boring, and dead
mean, among others, as illustrated in (24)–(26).
	 (20)	 This makes me feel all dead romantic and sexy! (BYU-BNC. 1992. 2 convs.
rec. by ‘Denise’ (PS18E) between 6 and 7 April 1992)
	 (21)	 I think it’s great. I find all this dead interesting. (BYU-BNC. 1991. John
Brewer and Kathleen Magee. Inside the RUC)
	 (22)	 In the parlance of Scotland’s street-talk, Baxter was ‘dead gallus’, every-
thing had to be done with a swagger and a smile. (BYU-BNC. 1991. Stuart
Cosgrove. Hampden Babylon: sex & scandal in Scottish football)
	 (23)	 I mean, one wall was practically nothing but Orange Paperback Spines. I’d
love that, so I would. I mean, it was...dead Lived-In.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1985. Liz Lochhead. True confessions and new cliches)
	 (24)	 Some of my friends laugh about it, they don’t get dressed up, a lot of them
are dead scruffy, others are like me.
		 (BYU-BNC. 1990. Jill Dawson. How do I look?)
	 (25)	 I had to go and speak to this maths teacher who’s dead boring! (BYU-
BNC. 1992. 24 convs rec. by ‘Helena’ (PS0EB) between 12 and 20 Mar
1992)
	 (26)	 every where you read in the paper its Essex gir-- Ess-- why does an Essex
girl (SP:PS0KN) they’re dead naff, right, [...] (BYU-BNC. 1992. 19 convs
rec. by ‘Martin’ (PS0KN) between 11 and 16 Jan 1992)
5.	 Table 2 only shows collocations with a subjective or intensifying meaning which occur 5
times or more in the corpus. Descriptive collocations are not listed, since there are virtually no
repetitions, and it would be impractical to include the 101 occurrences of this type in a table.
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
In all the examples above dead cannot possibly take a literal reading, as none of the
situations described bring about any fatal consequences. Instead, it is used as a
synonym for ‘very, extremely’.
The evidence presented in the preceding paragraphs reveals that the main
function of dead in the BYU-BNC is that of an intensifier. This is the use in which
we find the widest variety of collocations, with both negative and positive semantic
connotations, although some of them are only attested once. Among the colloca-
tions of dead we find more recent words in the language, such as sexy, which is also
found in COCA, minty (‘homosexual’) and naff. Minty and naff in particular are
first recorded in the 1960s, according to the OED. This suggests that dead in this
variety can modify virtually any word. That is, dead has become grammaticalised
as an intensifier, and this function is indeed the one which prevails in contempo-
rary British English. Descriptive and subjective readings of dead are also docu-
mented, though at levels far lower than those seen for its intensifying function.
3.3	 Dead in COCA
The distribution of descriptive, subjective and intensifying readings of dead
in COCA differs considerably from the picture just described for BYU-BNC
(cf. Figure 2 below). Thus, although in COCA intensifying meanings still account
for the majority of the occurrences of dead, the percentage is less than half of all
instances analysed (44.89% vs. 67.23% in BYU-BNC). Descriptive meanings are
next (33.93%), while subjective readings are the least frequent (21.18%).
The collocational analysis of dead in COCA also uncovers notable differences
in comparison with the British English data from BYU-BNC. COCA provides a
considerable number of certain collocations, in particular of dead wrong, dead se-
rious, and dead set, which are each found over 100 times (cf. Table 3 for the most
frequent collocations of dead in COCA). There are also a few collocations, includ-
ing dead tired, dead quiet, dead asleep, dead right, and dead even, which occur be-
tween 30 and 70 times in the corpus. However, there are also collocations with
only one occurrence, as is the case of dead stubborn and dead chic.
33.93
21.18
44.89
0
10
20
30
40
50
COCA
Descriptive (793)
Subjective (495)
Intensifying (1049)
Figure 2.  Percentages for descriptive, subjective, and intensifying readings of dead
in COCA.
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
Table 3.  The most frequent collocations of dead with subjective and intensifying readings
in COCA (number of occurrences in brackets).6
Subjective collocations of dead Intensifying collocations of dead
tired (67) asleep (32) wrong (322) earnest (16)
quiet (61) slow (10) serious (194) sure (12)
drunk (50) cold (7) set (127) simple (10)
silent (47) gray (7) right (52) certain (9)
calm (38) scared (6) even (50) easy (8)
still (38) broke (22) accurate (8)
white (35) straight (19) honest (6)
Findings for the descriptive meanings of dead in COCA do not differ greatly from
those in BYU-BNC. A total of 793 instances are attested, many of which, again, are
found in newspapers and science magazines, hence the references to dead civilians
or soldiers, as in (27) and (28), and to microorganisms and embryos in (29) and
(30), respectively:
	 (27)	 And that is what they see night after night on Arab television, Al-Jazeera
– dead Palestinians and dead Afghan civilians.
		 (COCA. 2001. CBS_Sixty. 60 Minutes)
	 (28)	 As the armored attack moved through Baghdad, it left burning trucks and
dead Iraqi soldiers in its wake. (COCA. 2003. John Ydstie. Analysis: US
forces making their first major incursion into Baghdad, encountering fierce
resistance in places)
	 (29)	 Dead marine microorganisms sink to the seafloor, then become buried by
silt washing out of a river. (COCA. 1994. Science News)
	 (30)	 Having lots of dead male embryos around is an additional advantage; in
such clutches, every female has, on average, at least one dead brother to
feed on. (COCA. 1994. Natural History)
A literal reading of dead in (27)–(30) above seems obvious, as death is involved in
all cases. Nevertheless, there are also examples in the corpus which do not refer to
animate things, yet which might also fit the category ‘descriptive’, as with the dead
cigarette end and the dead star in examples (13) and (14) above from BYU-BNC.
Illustrative examples are given under (31)–(34) below:
6.	 As was the case for Table 2, Table 3 only gives the collocations with a subjective or intensify-
ing meaning which occur at least 5 times in the corpus. Descriptive collocations are not listed,
since there are virtually no repetitions.
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
	 (31)	 It would cost exponentially more than it does to retrieve the files from a
dead hard drive.
		 (COCA. 2011. Blake M. Hausman. Riding the Trail of Tears)
	 (32)	 She was trying the dead lighter again.
		 (COCA. 2003. Bret Anthony Johnston. The widow)
	 (33)	 A strict vegetarian, he objected to vivisection and once stated that hunting
and horse racing were the “last remnants of a dead feudal world.”
		 (COCA. 1993. Harold Herzog. American Scholar)
	 (34)	 Holding onto a past that is gone or trying to relive a dead past carries huge
costs in lost opportunities.(COCA. 2007. Bryan T Froehle. U.S. Catholic)
In (31) and (32), dead is used to refer to the fact that both the hard drive and the
lighter are no longer working, and are dead in this sense. Similarly, examples (33)
and (34) involve situations that are not present or valid anymore, namely the feu-
dal world and the past, and are therefore dead.
Subjective readings of dead in COCA parallel those found in BYU-BNC. Ex-
amples of the subjective uses of dead in the corpus are given in (35)–(38) below:
	 (35)	 The soothsayer’s pink cheeks had gone dead white, glistening with little
beads of sweat, and his mouth seemed to be chewing on air.
		 (COCA. 1995. Lloyd Alexander. The Arkadians)
	 (36)	 That night I fell dead asleep by 10 p.m., with visions of Sir Edmund Hillary
in my head. (COCA. 2009. Keith Mulvihill. The mountain and Mother
Nature)
	 (37)	 [...] Altun Ha offered an intimate solitude we were all alone in the dead
quiet of the breezy plazas and looming pyramids,
		 (COCA. 1991. Sailing the Byways of the Mayan Caribbean)
	 (38)	 No wind now. No sound. All is dead still.
		 (COCA. 2011. Kirk Nesset. The Southern Review)
In these examples dead takes a subjective reading, and a literal interpretation or a
descriptive meaning is not possible. In (35) the cheeks of a character turned pale
and thus they conjure up a concomitant feature of death, that of paleness. Being
asleep (36) is also close to being dead, in the sense that we do not move. Quietness
and stillness are also often linked with death; this is the idea conveyed in (37),
where a very peaceful place is described, as if there was no life there; in (38) the sea
is said to be dead calm.
As for the intensifying meanings of dead in COCA, although there are certain
collocations which are recorded a considerable number of times, especially dead
wrong, dead serious, and dead set, it is also true that these cases are less varied than
in BYU-BNC. In fact, these collocations alone account for more than half of the
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
occurrences of intensifying dead in the corpus (61.3%). This might indicate that in
this variety the intensifier is more prevalent in certain fixed or set phrases, and
otherwise shows a far lower productivity as an intensifier. In COCA dead is more
frequently found as a modifier of words with positive semantic prosody (cf. (39)–
(41) below), but is nonetheless also recorded as a degree modifier of words which
are not always used positively, as in (42) and (43). In none of these instances does
dead allow for a literal or descriptive interpretation; the only possible reading is
‘extremely, very’. In other words, in these cases dead functions as a grammatica-
lised intensifier, semantically bleached completely of its original meaning.
	 (39)	 But you know, it was just a party, but it was a dead glam party, I suppose,
even for London, and it was a lot of fun, I suppose, yes.
		 (COCA. 2009. Marianne Faithfull On Music, Mick, and Survival)
	 (40)	 Caroline, you could not be more spot on. You are dead right.
		 (COCA. 2011. Talk of the Nation NPR)
	 (41)	 “In a way, it’s dead obvious,” says Mary Droser, a paleontologist at the
University of California, Biverside.
		 (COCA. 2011. Daniel Strain. Science news)
	 (42)	 I guess they thought they were being discreet, but it was obvious they’re
dead goofy gone on each other.
		 (COCA. 2012. Steven Utley. The tortoise grows elate)
	 (43)	 [...] but Adolph, who presumably knew her better, called her Bright Eyes,
and was dead nuts on her.
		 (COCA. 1991. Annie Dillard. A trip to the mountains)
The data for the different readings of dead in COCA suggest that the intensifying
function of dead is less productive in American English than in British English.
Although intensifying dead is the most frequent, specific collocations account for a
high number of these occurrences. This also applies to the subjective meanings of
dead in COCA, with a number of collocations, such as dead drunk, dead tired, or
dead quiet, tending to recur. By contrast, the readings of dead are much more varied
in their descriptive or literal sense. However, it is also true that intensifying dead is
recorded with adjectives such as goofy and glam, which are relatively recent words
in the language (first recorded uses in 1921 and 1937, respectively, according to the
OED), even though the number of tokens is still very small for such a large corpus.
3.4	 Dead in ICE-Ireland
The evidence from the ICE-Ireland corpus is much more limited than BYU-BNC
and COCA, given that the corpus is much smaller. Nevertheless, a sufficient number
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
44.64
23.21
32.14
0
10
20
30
40
50
ICE-Ireland
Descriptive (25)
Subjective (13)
Intensifying (18)
Figure 3.  Percentages for descriptive, subjective, and intensifying readings of dead
in ICE-Ireland.
of examples are found for conclusions to be drawn regarding the use of dead in Irish
English. From a total of 56 relevant examples of dead in Table 1 above, 25 correspond
to descriptive readings (44.64%), 13 to subjective meanings (23.21%), and 18 to in-
tensifying readings (32.14%). For the first time, then, we witness descriptive mean-
ings outnumbering intensifying meanings, with subjective readings lagging slightly
behind (cf. Figure 3).
Regarding the descriptive or literal meanings of dead in the corpus, the exam-
ples found here are generally in keeping with those from the previous corpora, re-
ferring in most cases to dead people or dead animals, as in (44) and (45), although
there is also a less prototypical example in which dead combines with the noun love
(46), where love is said to be dead because it has not survived and is thus past.
	 (44)	 He remembers the ardent old Republican <,> who was once enraged by a
call in his church for prayers for a dead soldier.
 (ICE-Ireland. 1995–2001 S2B-025$B)
	 (45)	 Sometimes I’d find a dead hare hanging from the willow fork which kept
the creel in place. (ICE-Ireland. 1993 W2F-017 Market Place)
	 (46)	 That’s old love, that’s dead love.
 (ICE-Ireland. 1997 W2F-002 Eureka Street)
Subjective meanings of dead in ICE-Ireland are not very numerous and also differ
to a great extent from those found in BYU-BNC and COCA. Thus, we do not get
any of the combinations found in those two very large corpora such as dead white,
dead calm, dead drunk, or dead tired, among others. Instead, we find dead scared
(47), dead black (48), and dead end (49):7
	 (47)	 <#> He’d have a fit if he could hear that. <#> <it> Dead </it> scared.
		 (ICE-Ireland. 1993 W2F-005 Fat Lad)
7.	 Dead scared also appeared in BYU-BNC and COCA, although with very few instances (4
and 6 tokens, respectively).
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
	 (48)	 <#> He’s left the heat of himself as well around the rim of the toilet seat.
<#> And some dead black hairs stuck in the foam of his shaving soap.
 (ICE-Ireland. 1993 <W2F-019 Bridie’s Wedding>)
	 (49)	 At a time when talented junior colleagues are increasingly being employed
on dead-end contracts, it may seem selfish to fret about the sensitive han-
dling of more privileged people.  (ICE-Ireland. 1992 <W1B-028$A>)
The combination dead scared in (47) is considered to convey a subjective meaning,
given that when we fear something it is because we are afraid of dying, and in these
cases our hearts beat fast on account of this fear. The collocation dead black in (48)
might also be regarded as subjective, since the colour black is pervasive in death
imagery and might therefore evoke death-related qualities. Yet it is true that in this
specific case, since the shaved hairs from this beard are no longer growing on his
face, one might also say that they are dead in a literal sense, and hence a descriptive
reading is appropriate. Dead-end contracts in (49) might also be classified as a
subjective collocation, in that dead end here refers to a contract which offers no
possibilities for advancement or promotion, as if the contract can lead only to a
kind of metaphorical death.
Intensifying readings of dead in the corpus are all used with words which have
a positive semantic prosody, with the exception of the combination dead jealous.
Some examples illustrating these meanings are given in (50)–(54) below:
	 (50)	 And apparently like thankfully cos he was dead fit it didn’t you know
		 (ICE-Ireland 2002–2005 <S1A-044$A>)
	 (51)	 God to think I could be out there with you dead soon – mad!
		 (ICE-Ireland 1997 <W1B-003$B>)
	 (52)	 I got your letter yesterday and was dead jealous of the brill time you’re
having. (ICE-Ireland 1994 <W1B-008$A>)
	 (53)	 </*> he’s great crack, dead sweet, sensitive <*>
		 (ICE-Ireland. 1997 <W1B-003$B>)
	 (54)	 Our new house is dead on. (ICE-Ireland 1994 <W1B-012$C>)
In all these examples, dead does not admit a literal reading. The only reading al-
lowed is an intensifying one (‘completely, extremely’). The data for intensifying
dead in ICE-Ireland also reveal a collocation which seems to be specific to the Irish
variety, namely dead on (cf. (54) above). As indicated in the BBC Voices webpage,
this expression is used to mean that something is OK.8
8.	 Dead on: OK. “left a bit, that’s dead on ni.” “Ach, he’s dead on, so he is.” “Dead on, mate.”
Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/northernireland/voices/atilazed/d.shtml.
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
44.86
14.02
41.12
0
10
20
30
40
50
SCOTS
Descriptive (48)
Subjective (15)
Intensifying (44)
Figure 4.  Percentages for descriptive, subjective, and intensifying readings of dead
in SCOTS.
3.5	 Dead in SCOTS
The evidence from the SCOTS corpus offers a very similar picture to that of Irish
English, in that descriptive meanings also outnumber intensifying uses of dead,
and subjective uses are again the least frequent (cf. Figure 4).
Descriptive dead in SCOTS does not differ significantly from the findings on
the other corpora analysed here. Examples of literal uses of dead include combina-
tions with the words sheep in (55), man in (56), and children in (57). Examples are
also found in which dead does not refer to the death of a living entity, as in dead
language in (58), i.e. a language which no longer has any living speakers, and dead
fire in (59), i.e., a fire which is no longer burning.
	 (55)	 That kind of question is very much like being savaged by a dead sheep. 
		 (SCOTS. 07/09/00. Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body)
	 (56)	 Better than any other man, perhaps, he knew that a dead man poses no
threat. (SCOTS. Gordon K. Booth. The fruits of sacrifice: Sigmund Freud
and William Robertson Smith)
	 (57)	 To ask the Scottish Executive what legislation it intends to propose to en-
sure that hospitals are not able to remove and retain organs from dead
children for the purposes of research without prior parental consent.
		 (SCOTS. Scottish Parliament: Business Bulletin 124/2000)
	 (58)	 But neither is Scots a dead language since it lives on in several regional
dialects and broken urban demotics as a ready means of communication
[....] (SCOTS. Mr. Bruce Leeming. A Scots revival?)
	 (59)	 Her heart seemed like a dead fire that her breathing couldn’t begin to stir,
her lungs like a defective bellows pumping air to no purpose.
		 (SCOTS. Sheena Blackhall. The Fower Quarters)
Subjective meanings of dead are the least frequently attested in the corpus, and, as
was the case in ICE-Ireland, they differ considerably from the same uses found in
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
BYU-BNC and COCA. Hence, we do not find any tokens of dead drunk, dead
quiet, dead calm or any other collocations which were common to the two very
large corpora. By contrast, subjective dead in SCOTS yields examples such as dead
dark in (60), dead voice (61), dead air (62), and dead look (63):
	 (60)	 “Light wis bright as anythin’ the day,” she said. “But noo it’s dead dark.” 
		 (SCOTS. Rob Mcclure. Easterhouse)
	 (61)	 CHRISSIE (dead voice) Aye. It worked. (SCOTS. Charles Barron. Guts)
	 (62)	 A vulture flaps in a tree, fanning the dead air.
		 (SCOTS. Sheena Blackhall. The heavenly cow of Thebes)
	 (63)	 When by progging and shaking him as if he ware a carnival brute that
would not do its tricks, they finally rowsed him to sit, he stared at them
blearily with a dead look and said, Wherefor do ye trouble me wt your
cruelty? (SCOTS. James Robertson. The fanatic)
Darkness and blackness are very closely associated with death; in (60) there is an
explicit contrast between the bright light of day and the darkness of the night. A
dead voice (61) is a voice which can hardly be heard, almost as if it lacks the life-
giving energy to make itself heard. In (62) we also find very strong metaphorical
ties with death: vultures are carrion-eating birds and as such are naturally associ-
ated with death. The air, however, cannot be dead; it is said to be so, even if meta-
phorically, precisely because of the deadly atmosphere of the context. Finally, in
(63) the look is said to be dead in the sense that the eyes of the person are not very
bright and seem not to be focused. In all these cases, therefore, death is not neces-
sarily present, and what we find instead is dead used to make a figurative allusion
to death. It is the speaker or writer who establishes a metaphorical link or connec-
tion with death, and hence we can apply the label ‘subjective’ in such cases.
Intensifying readings of dead in SCOTS show an overwhelming majority of col-
locations with words which have a positive semantic prosody, as can be seen in
(64)–(66) below, although there are also two examples in which dead appears in
combination with items with negative connotations: cheesy (67) and expensive (68):
	 (64)	 I mean look, there’ Ally McQuade five seats doon, bein’ dead pally wi’ auld
Mrs Laurence.
		(SCOTS. Christopher Brookmyre. One fine day in the middle of the night)
	 (65)	 And these er products would arrive dead on time, and you would go down
and buy your copy and then race away to some cubbyhole and devour this.
 (SCOTS. Interview with Harry Ferguson)
	 (66)	 The vet on duty is Elspeth an the pair discovers it wisnae a man Fiona
wantit, but her first love, Elspeth. Pure dead brilliant!
		 (SCOTS. Robert Fairnie. Scots tung wittins 150)
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
	 (67)	 [...] I don’t know, there was something dead cheesy and trendy about it, I
don’t know what it wis, but I just couldnae (SCOTS. Conversation 26: Two
females from Glasgow talking about weddings)
	 (68)	 No, no, that// place is, that place is dead expensive that place outside Bu-
chanan Street underground
		 (SCOTS. Conversation 14: Two male students on university life)
In (64)–(68) above, dead does not admit a literal or descriptive interpretation, and
can only be understood as an intensifier. In these cases, then, dead is bleached of
its original meaning, and is only used for emphatic purposes. Notice that example
(66) shows the combination of two intensifiers, dead and pure.9 This might point
to the replacement of dead by pure in the domain of intensifiers, as claimed by
Macaulay (2006) for Glaswegian adolescent speech.
Findings from SCOTS therefore show that, in spite of the low number of to-
kens, the intensifier dead is still alive in speech after 1997, given that most of the
recordings in the corpus date from the year 2000 onwards. It must be recalled,
however, that 1997 is the date from which dead is seen to have undergone a dra-
matic decrease in Glaswegian adolescent speech, as claimed by Macaulay (2006).
3.6	 Dead across the varieties examined
Figure 5 below gives the normalised frequencies for each of the readings of dead in
the four corpora examined.
Descriptive
Subjective
Intensifying
1.05 1.71
23.15
10.45
0.97 1.07
12.04
3.27
4.13
2.26
16.67
9.58
0
5
10
15
20
25
BYU-BNC COCA ICE-Ireland SCOTS
Figure 5.  Normalised frequencies (NF) for descriptive, subjective, and intensifying
readings of dead in BYU-BNC, COCA, ICE-Ireland, and SCOTS.
9.	 In the SCOTS corpus, there are a total of 12 instances of the combination of the intensifiers
pure and dead. Of these, 11 correspond to the collocation pure dead brilliant, the remaining ex-
ample being pure dead white.
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
As already noted, intensifying meanings of dead only outnumber its other uses in
BYU-BNC and COCA. In the smaller corpora for Irish and Scottish English, de-
scriptive meanings of dead are the most frequent, followed by intensifying and
subjective uses. Even so, intensifying dead is clearly more widespread in Irish and
Scottish English than in British and American English. In fact, intensifying mean-
ings of dead are four and eight times more frequent in Irish English than in British
English and American English, respectively. Moreover, intensifying readings of
dead in Irish English are almost double those in Scottish English.
Descriptive meanings of dead are only the most frequent in ICE-Ireland and
in SCOTS; in BYU-BNC and COCA they appear in second position. The figures
here once again show notable differences between the different corpora. Thus, in
ICE-Ireland descriptive meanings are over 20 times more frequent than in BYU-
BNC and COCA, and descriptive readings of dead occur over 10 times more in
SCOTS than in the very large corpora. This also implies that descriptive uses of
dead are double those of descriptive dead in SCOTS.
Differences regarding the subjective uses of dead are also apparent, despite be-
ing the least frequent uses of dead in the four corpora. ICE-Ireland offers the
sharpest contrast with BYU-BNC, COCA and SCOTS here. Thus, subjective read-
ings of dead are almost 12 times more frequent in Irish English than in American
and British English, and also roughly 4 times more frequent than in Scottish
English. Evidently, subjective dead is attested 3 times more in SCOTS than in
BYU-BNC and COCA, itself a considerable difference.
The normalised frequencies for the three different readings of dead show that
in Irish English and Scottish English the adverbial and adjectival form dead is
considerably more frequent than in the British and American varieties. COCA, at
around 450 million words, is roughly 100 times bigger than SCOTS, and BYU-
BNC, at around 100 million words, is 100 times bigger than ICE-Ireland. Despite
these differences, and also despite the fact that in ICE-Ireland and SCOTS dead
does not occur with an especially great frequency, we can nevertheless claim that
the uses of dead under analysis here are far more widespread in the Scottish and
Irish varieties.
4.	 Concluding remarks
This article has provided a detailed study of the collocations of dead in four differ-
ent varieties of PDE: American, British, Irish, and Scottish English. By classifying
the meanings of dead into descriptive, subjective, and intensifying, I have exam-
ined the semantics of this adverbial and adjectival form in the different corpora in
order to shed some light on its degree of productivity as an intensifier in the
	 Zeltia Blanco-Suárez
selected varieties. Although this classification is not without problems, it is, to my
mind, helpful as a means of accounting for the semantics of dead in both present
and past stages of the language. The analysis of the collocations of dead in each of
the four different corpora has been complemented with comparative, cross-dialec-
tal findings. It has been shown that the intensifier dead is far more common in
Irish and Scottish English, followed by British and then American English. The
latter is the least productive variety for the intensifying or grammaticalised read-
ings of dead, and in fact there exist a small number of collocations, among them
dead wrong and dead serious, which account for a high number of these readings
in the American variety. Findings for Irish English are more surprising, given that
the intensifier dead, to the best of my knowledge, has not been discussed previ-
ously in the literature in connection with this variety, yet in fact seems to be most
productive here. It would also be interesting to study the sociolinguistic factors
governing the use of dead and its distribution across different genres, age groups
and dialects, as well as its competition with other intensifiers in the different vari-
eties studied here. This, of course, remains a subject for future research.
Sources
BYU-BNC = Brigham Young University-British National Corpus. (Based on the British National
Corpus from Oxford University Press).  Davies, Mark. 2004–2012. <http://corpus.byu.
edu/bnc/> (12 December 2012).
COCA = Corpus of Contemporary American English. Davies, Mark. 2008–2012. <http://corpus.
byu.edu/coca/> (12 December 2012).
ICE-Ireland = International Corpus of English: Ireland Component. Version 1.2 (CD-ROM).
2007. Directed by Kirk, John, Jeffrey L. Kallen, Orla Lowry, Anne Rooney & Margaret Man-
nion.
OED = Oxford English Dictionary. 1989. 2nd edn. Oxford: OUP. Online version with revisions
available at: <http://www.oed.com>
SCOTS = Scottish Corpus of Texts & Speech. Department of English Language. University of
Glasgow. <http://www.scottishcorpus.ac.uk/> (12 December 2012).
References
Adamson, S. 2000. A lovely little example: Word order options and category shift in the pre-
modifying string. In Pathways of Change. Grammaticalization in English [Studies in Lan-
guage Companion Series 53], O. Fischer, A. Rosenbach & D. Stein (eds), 39–66. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.53.04ada
Barnfield, K & Buchstaller, I. 2010. Intensifiers on Tyneside: Longitudinal developments and
new trends. English World-Wide 31: 252–287. DOI: 10.1075/eww.31.3.02bar
	 The intensifier dead in Contemporary English	 
Blanco-Suárez, Z. 2013. The competition between the intensifiers dead and deadly: Some dia-
chronic considerations. In Corpus Perspectives on Patterns of Lexis [Studies in Corpus Lin-
guistics 57], H. Hasselgård, J. Ebeling & S. O. Ebeling (eds), 71–90. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins. DOI: 10.1075/scl.57.08sua
Bolinger, D. 1972. Degree Words. The Hague: Mouton. DOI: 10.1515/9783110877786
Hopper, P. & Traugott, E. C. 2003. Grammaticalization, 2nd edn. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/
CBO9781139165525
López-Couso, M. J. 2010. Subjectification and intersubjectification. In Historical Pragmatics,
A.H. Jucker & I. Taavitsainen (eds), 127–163. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton.
Macaulay, R. 2006. Pure grammaticalization: The development of a teenage intensifier. Language
Variation and Change 18: 267–283. DOI: 10.1017/S0954394506060133
Méndez-Naya, B. 2003. On intensifiers and grammaticalization: The case of swithe. English
Studies 84: 372–391. DOI: 10.1076/enst.84.4.372.17388
Peters, H. 1994. Degree adverbs in Early Modern English. In Studies in Early Modern English, D.
Kastovsky (ed.), 269–288. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Stubbs, M. 1995. Collocations and semantic profiles: On the cause of the trouble with quantita-
tive methods. Functions of Language 2: 23–55. DOI: 10.1075/fol.2.1.03stu
Tagliamonte, S.A. 2008. So different and pretty cool! Recycling intensifiers in Toronto, Canada.
English Language and Linguistics 12: 361–394. DOI: 10.1017/S1360674308002669
Traugott, E.C. 1995. Subjectification in grammaticalisation. In Subjectivity and Subjectivisation:
Linguistic Perspectives, D. Stein & S. Wright (eds), 31–54. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/
CBO9780511554469.003
Traugott, E.C. 2003. From subjectification to intersubjectification. In Motives for Language
Change, R. Hickey (ed.), 124–139. Cambridge: CUP.
Traugott, E.C. 2010. Revisiting subjectification and intersubjectification. In Subjectification, In-
tersubjectification, and Grammaticalization, K. Davidse, L. Vandelanotte & H. Cuyckens
(eds), 29–70. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton.
Traugott, E.C. & Dasher, R.B. 2002. Regularity in Semantic Change. Cambridge: CUP.
Visconti, J. 2013. Facets of subjectification. Language Sciences 36: 7–17. DOI: 10.1016/j.langs-
ci.2012.03.016
The case of focus
The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers
in subject predicative complement position
Georg Maier
University of Hamburg
This article investigates the distribution of pronoun case forms (PCFs) in it-
clefts and it BE-sentences in British and American English. Its particular interest
is the occurrence of subject PCFs in these two constructions. Functional and
pragmatic factors exerting an influence on the distribution are identified, such as
first vs. third person, singular vs plural. All these factors are operationalized and
quantified in the datasets. The findings confirm the hypothesis that subject PCFs
have been re-functionalised as Focus markers in the two varieties examined. As
the explanation of this refunctionalization, markedness reversal is put forward.
Keywords: pronoun case forms, it-clefts, it BE-sentences, focus marking,
markedness reversal
1.	 Introduction
The distribution of pronoun case forms (henceforth PCFs) in English has been
the subject of linguistic analysis for a very long time (e.g. Cooper 1685 [1968]:
121; Erdmann 1978; Hudson 1995; Kjellmer 1986; Quinn 2005, 2009; Shorrocks
1992; Sobin 1997; Sweet 1875: 495; Wales 1996). One of the major reasons for the
unbroken interest in the distribution of PCFs is the fact that English possesses a
considerable number of contexts which permit a choice between the use of either
subject or object pronoun forms. Well-known examples of these contexts include
the focal position of it-clefts, predicative complements following it and a form of
BE, i.e. it BE sentences (cf. Quinn 2005), coordinated noun phrases in subject
and object position, pronoun-noun phrase constructions and than-comparatives
(cf. Table 1):
	 Georg Maier
Table 1.  Contexts allowing for variability in the use of pronoun case forms in Present-
Day English.
Contexts Exhibiting Variability in the
Use of Pronoun Case Forms
Example
It-cleft It is they/them who are to blame
It BE Sentence [Who is it? –] It is I/me
Coordinated NPs in Subject Position Susan and I/me will get divorced
Coordinated NPs in Object Position This issue has to stay between you and I/me
Pronoun-Noun Phrase Constructions We/Us people are the sovereign
Than-Comparatives Jim is smarter than he/him
In what follows, this study focuses on the first two constructions in Table 1, name-
ly it-clefts and it BE sentences which have been subsumed under the heading of
subject predicative complements (cf. Biber et al. 1999: 335–336; Maier 2013):
	 (1)	 Subject Predicative Complement: it BE Sentence
		 Who said that? – It was he/him.
	 (2)	 Subject Predicative Complement: it-Cleft
		 It was he/him who said that.
The reasons for this study’s focus on the distribution of PCFs in subject predicative
complements (henceforth SPCs) are the following: firstly, the distribution of PCFs
in these contexts has been the subject of linguistic analysis for a very long time
(e.g. Jespersen 1933: 132; Sweet 1875: 495). However, even though the variability
in the use of PCFs in it-clefts and it BE sentences is still discussed today in most
comprehensive grammar books of English (e.g. Biber et al. 1999; Greenbaum 1996;
Huddleston & Pullum 2002; Quirk et al. 1985), there are hardly any quantitative
studies examining the distribution of PCFs in these two contexts – let alone mul-
tivariate ones (cf. Maier 2012; Quinn 2009).
Secondly, much of current linguistic theory assumes that the distribution of
PCFs in it-clefts and it BE sentences should be the same (cf. Section 2). By analysing
these two constructions, this study will be able to test the predictions of some well-
established theoretical approaches addressing the distribution of PCFs in Present-
Day English.
Finally, this study’s focus results from its central assumption, i.e. that subject
PCFs have been reanalysed as Focus1 markers in SPCs. Indeed, this study argues
1.	 Whenever this study uses the concept of Focus as defined in the framework of Functional
Grammar, it also adopts the convention of spelling Focus with a capital letter. In Functional
Grammar, Focus is defined as the relatively most important, salient or highlighted information
in a clause (cf. Section 3.2 for a detailed discussion; Dik 1978: 130; Siewierska 2004: 159; Weinert
& Miller 1996: 179).
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
that the more focussed a SPC context is, the more likely it is to observe a subject
pronoun case form. In order to test this assumption, this study uses multivariate
statisticalmodelswiththehelpofwhichtwomega-corporaofBritishandAmerican
English, i.e. the British National Corpus (Davies 2004–) and the Corpus of Contem-
porary American English (Davies 2008–) will be analysed.
However, this study starts with a brief overview of how linguistic theorising
tries to account for the distribution of PCFs in Present-Day English (cf. Section 2).
Then, Section 3 introduces and motivates this study’s central assumption accord-
ing to which subject pronouns have been re-functionalised as postverbal Focus
markers in SPCs. Section 4 deals with the difficult issue of operationalising the
variable Focus, while Section 5 briefly outlines other factors that are supposed to
influence the distribution of PCFs in SPCs. Section 6 formalises the major as-
sumption of this paper into a testable hypothesis before Section 7 introduces the
databases and statistical method. Then, Section 8 presents the results of the analy-
sis, which are then more thoroughly discussed in Section 9, particularly with re-
gard to the hypothesis outlined in Section 6 and the repercussions of the results for
future work.
2.	 The distribution of pronoun case forms in English: A brief survey
Linguistic theory has put forward different approaches to account for the distribu-
tion of PCFs in Present-Day English and the variation observed in many contexts.
To begin with, there are formal approaches to case. Although most of the once
elaborate case morphology had been lost during the transition from Old to Middle
English, much of the current formal syntactic literature assumes that English still
possesses a healthy case system (e.g. Haegeman & Guéron 1999: 143–144; Quinn
2005: 26–64; Radford 2009: 119–125).
However, the assumption that the distribution of PCFs is still determined by
case mechanisms has met with a lot of opposition, even within the formalist camp
(e.g. Emonds 1985: 220). Alternatively, the position of the pronoun form in a
clause has been considered the decisive factor in determining the distribution of
the different pronoun forms (e.g. Burridge 2004: 1118; Cooper 1685 [1968]: 121;
Emonds 1985; Hudson 1995). A good example to illustrate this “positional” ap-
proach is Quirk et al. (1985). In their account – especially with regard to informal
varieties of English – the clause is divided into “subject territory”, i.e. the preverbal
subject position immediately preceding the finite verb, where only subject forms
are supposed to occur and “object territory”, i.e. all noun-phrase positions apart
from that immediately preceding the verb, where only object pronouns are sup-
posed to occur. In this approach, variation in the use of pronoun forms is mainly
	 Georg Maier
explained in terms of stylistic differences since subject pronouns are retained
in formal varieties in more formerly nominative contexts (Quirk et al. 1985:
337–338).
Another very influential approach discussed here basically makes the same
predictions as the positional approach. In this approach, subject forms are also
restricted to the noun phrase slot immediately preceding the finite verb. However,
the focus of this approach is more on the distinction of different pronoun classes
than on identifying areas in which certain pronoun forms are supposed to occur.
In analogy to languages such as French, proponents of this approach assume that
the distribution of PCFs in Present-Day English is determined by a split of the
pronominal paradigm into a class of “weak” and a class of “strong” pronoun forms.
It is suggested that the former subject PCFs have become or are in the process of
becoming clitics and can thus occur only in the noun phrase slot in immediate
adjacency to the finite verb, whereas the former object pronoun forms have be-
come or are becoming strong pronouns which can occur in all other positions.
Variation in this approach is mainly explained with the help of an assumed dy-
namic transition from a formerly case-governed pronominal paradigm to a system
of clitic and non-clitic pronoun forms (e.g. Harris 1981; Quinn 2005; Shorrocks
1992; Sweet 1875: 495).
Hence, both the positional and the weak vs. strong pronoun approach suggest
that subject PCFs should mainly be restricted to the noun phrase slot immediately
preceding the finite verb. This also implies that we are supposed to observe mainly
or only object pronoun forms in SPCs, i.e. both in it BE sentences and in it-clefts
as in both sentence types the pronoun in question is either in object territory or in
a strong pronoun context.
However, although these approaches seem initially quite plausible, they are
not fully consistent with the observations of several empirical accounts. In fact, the
findings of several empirical studies suggest that functional, sociolinguistic and
pragmatic aspects may also strongly influence the choice of pronoun forms in
variable contexts (e.g. Angermeyer & Singler 2003: 197; Biber et al. 1999; Erdmann
1978: 72; Maier 2013).
3.	 From case to Focus markers
3.1	 The motivation for the reanalysis hypothesis
The assumption that subject pronouns have been reanalysed as postverbal Focus
markers may at first seem unorthodox given the fact that subject pronouns are
often associated with preverbal, unstressed topical occurrences (e.g. Pietsch 2007:
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
167, 2009: 146). However, there are still very good reasons corroborating such a
re-functionalisation hypothesis.
First of all, if the distribution of PCFs across varieties of English is taken into
consideration, it can be observed that a considerable number of English varieties
has re-functionalised former case distinctions to pragmatic contrasts (cf. Maier
2012). The most prominent example of such a reanalysis is the phenomenon of
pronoun exchange. In several varieties of English, most prominently in the South-
west of England and in Newfoundland, pronoun exchange typically occurs when
subject pronoun forms are used in positions where we would expect to find object
pronoun forms according to the typical usage or distribution in Standard English
(Paddock 1994: 256–263; Wagner 2004: 157–158).
	 (3)	 Southwest England (Wagner 2002: 2)
		 a.	 Don’t know if you’ve met he or no?
		 b.	 There was a lot of they down there.
Even though different notions such as the marking of emphasis, stress, and con-
trast have been put forth to account for this reanalysis of existing morphological
forms, it is most striking that the standard pronominal paradigm has been re-
functionalised in some varieties to mark pragmatic contrasts or functions. Hence,
depending on the terminology of the respective account, stress, Focus, contrast or
emphasis may severely influence the distribution of PCFs in these varieties, since
new pragmatic functions have been allocated to available pronoun forms which
had lost their original syntactic functions (e.g. Shorrocks 1992: 440–441; Paddock
1991: 36–37, 1994: 256–263; Wagner 2004: 158). In Newfoundland English, pro-
noun exchange has even been explicitly interpreted as a Focus marking device,
whereby “the former syntactic case distinction (of subject versus object), wholly or
partially lost in the Wessex mother dialects, was generally replaced by a pragmatic
Focus distinction in the Newfoundland dialects” (Paddock 1994: 260). Thus, it is
possible that a similar re-functionalisation process has taken place in SPCs
following it and a form of BE in the Standard varieties of English. Like in New-
foundland English, subject pronoun forms may also be used in SPCs to mark fo-
cussed pronouns.
In some varieties, re-functionalisations of former case forms to mark prag-
matic contrasts can even be observed for the third person neuter. Cases in point
are the varieties spoken in East Anglia and Appalachian English (e.g. Montgomery
2004: 262; Poussa 1997; Trudgill 2004: 146–147). In addition, some varieties,
mainly pidgins and creoles, have specifically innovated a contrast between partic-
ularly emphatic, stressed or focussed pronouns and unemphatic, unstressed or
unfocussed ones (e.g. Huber 1999: 197–199). Hence, the overt encoding of a
	 Georg Maier
contrast between emphatic–unemphatic, stressed–unstressed or focussed–unfo-
cussed pronoun forms seems to be a desideratum of many varieties of English.
Moreover, other studies have also acknowledged that subject forms may be
used post-verbally to achieve a certain pragmatic effect (e.g. Hopkins 1975: 33;
Quinn 2005: 246). Wales (1996) states that “the pedantry of the subjective case
variant can be exploited for conscious effect, and, preceded by an intensifier pro-
vides a useful end-stress” (1996: 95). Furthermore, Erdmann (1978: 75) notes that
subject PCFs in it BE sentences are more likely to occur in sentences in which the
pronoun in predicative complement position is co-referential with the subject in a
preceding or following sentence (Erdmann 1978: 75). Thus, focussed construc-
tions have already been acknowledged by other studies as potentially exhibiting
different distributions of PCFs when compared to less focussed constructions (e.g.
Erdmann 1978: 78; Wales 1996: 95).
3.2	 The notion of Focus
This study follows the traditional view of Functional Grammar and defines Focus
or focussed constituents as the relatively most important, salient or highlighted
information in a clause (Dik 1978: 130; Siewierska 2004: 159; Weinert & Miller
1996: 179). Thus, the speaker or writer may focus “on it in order to make it, and the
information it carries, cognitively salient for the addressee” (Weinert & Miller
1996: 179).
Usually, the Focus of a clause denotes an element of the predication that pred-
icates something about the Topic, i.e. the entity, term, or referent the utterance is
primarily about (e.g. Siewierska 1991: 149). Thus, it is part of the comment or
rheme in accounts proposing a binary distinction of the clause into either topic
and comment or theme and rheme (cf. Siewierska 1991: 174). However, the dis-
tinction between Topic and Focus in Functional Grammar is not a binary one.
Although positional preferences are acknowledged (e.g. Siewierska 1991: 149), the
Focus of a clause is not simply identified by relying on the position of the constitu-
ents. Instead, Functional Grammar relies on the insights of cross-linguistic and
typological research, which has identified a number of strategies by which fo-
cussed constituents may be made prominent (Dik 1989: 278):
I.	 Prosodic Prominence
II.	 Special constituent order, i.e. special positions for focussed constituents in the
order of the clause
III.	Special Focus markers, i.e. particles which highlight the focussed constituents
IV.	 Special Focus constructions, i.e. constructions which per se define a specific
constituent as fulfilling Focus function
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
Languages may use one or more of these strategies to mark the Focus of a sentence.
Moreover, there is often a “trade-off” between different Focus marking strategies
(Dik 1989: 278). If, for example, Focus is marked by a certain Focus construction,
another Focus marker, such as prosodic prominence, may not be necessary
(cf. Dik 1989: 278–279).
3.3	 From subject pronouns to Focus markers
It is a well-known fact that the Old English morphological case system had col-
lapsed by the advent of Middle English. Hence, nouns, for example, lost their
nominative, dative and accusative case distinctions and the former genitive is also
now often considered to be a system of possessive modifiers rather than a true case
category (e.g. Denison 1993: 20–21; Hollmann 2009: 317–321; Hudson 1995). As
a consequence, different case forms have been confined to the pronominal para-
digm, distinguishing subject from object forms (e.g. Hollmann 2009: 319; Lass
2006: 51–52). However, the original function of the different case forms, i.e. mark-
ing the semantic relationships between verbs and noun phrases or between heads
and dependents (cf. Butt 2006: 4), has mostly been taken over by other means,
especially by a rather rigid SVO word order in declarative sentences and by means
of prepositions. This means that although different PCFs have been retained, they
have been stripped of their original function (e.g. Denison 1993: 21). Historical
linguistics assumes, however, that if a language encodes a grammatical category
morphologically and the grammatical distinction is lost before the forms that en-
code it, the respective speech community has three options to further deal with
these morphological remnants (Lass 1990: 82):
I.	 The morphological forms can be discarded entirely
II.	 The morphological forms can be kept as marginal forms or non-functional,
non-expressive residual forms
III.	The morphological forms can be maintained, but instead of being relegated to
some marginal phenomenon, they can be re-functionalised, perhaps even in a
systematic way
The first option mentioned above describes what has happened to many PCFs in
English, for example the Old-English accusative pronouns. They simply disap-
peared over the course of time (e.g. Denison 1993: 16–23). The second option
outlined above is the status often attributed to the remaining PCFs in Present-Day
English. Since their original function has been relocated to other linguistic strate-
gies, the different subject and object forms are often simply considered to be posi-
tional variants (e.g. Burridge 2004: 1118; Hudson 1995). The third option is the
basis for the weak vs. strong pronoun approach outlined above and for the stance
	 Georg Maier
taken here, namely that the subject pronouns may have been re-functionalised as
Focus markers in SPCs following it and a form of BE.
What still has to be addressed is the question why subject pronoun forms and
not other pronoun forms have been re-functionalised as Focus markers in SPCs.
This can be explained with a phenomenon called Markiertheitstumkerung,
i.e. “markedness reversal”, by Mayerthaler (1981: 48) or deviation from “default
expectation” by Haspelmath (2006: 62). This phenomenon is usually illustrated
withthehelpofanon-linguisticexample,i.e.thedresscodeonbeaches(Haspelmath
2006: 62; Mayerthaler 1981: 48):
“normally people wear bathing suits, so naked bathing is the marked case. On
nudist beaches, we find markedness reversal – wearing a bathing suit becomes
marked, i.e. unexpected and therefore remarkable” (Haspelmath 2006: 62).
Thus, subject pronoun forms may be used as Focus markers in SPCs precisely
because they are not expected to occur in these postverbal contexts. As a matter
of fact, subject PCFs are prototypically used only as subjects of finite verbs in
declarative and interrogative sentences in Present-Day English, while object
pronoun forms have a much wider functional range (cf. Huddleston & Pullum
2002: 459–461).
In the approach adopted here, the strong association of the subject PCFs with
the subject function in a sentence and the wider functional range of the object
PCFs are also acknowledged. However, while some accounts deduce a severe re-
striction of the subject pronouns’ range of application from this strong association
(e.g. Burridge 2004: 1118; Harris 1981: 17–20), the present study considers it to be
the foundation on which the possible reanalysis of subject PCFs as Focus markers
rests – not only in SPCs, but also in some of the pronoun exchange regions
(cf. Section 3.1). It is precisely this strong association of subject pronoun forms
with the subject function in finite clauses on which the principle of markedness
reversal operates. Because subject pronoun forms are prototypically expected to
occur only as subjects of finite clauses, their occurrence in other contexts is very
remarkable (e.g. Mayerthaler 1981: 48–49).
This strong association also implies that because subject pronoun forms are
normally used only as subjects of finite sentences, they can be re-functionalised
more easily than other pronouns. Their typically narrow range of application
means that a re-functionalisation or extension of the prototypical usage pattern to
include also Focus marking bears a comparatively lower risk of ambiguity or func-
tional clashes than does the use of other pronouns. Since object and possessive
pronouns, for example, can already occur in many more contexts or noun slots, a
re-functionalisation of these pronouns as Focus markers would thus be less salient
and less easily recognisable than the use of subject forms. Moreover, subject forms
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
very often refer to the Topic of a sentence, i.e. the referent the utterance primarily
is about (e.g. Siewierska 1991: 149). Thus, they are per se already pragmatically
salient, as they normally already refer to another pragmatically important con-
stituent. In view of these facts, a re-functionalisation of the subject forms as Focus
markers, particularly in contexts in which they are not expected, such as it BE
sentences or it-clefts, becomes very plausible.
4.	 Pinning down Focus: the operationalisation of Focus
4.1	 It-clefts versus it BE sentences
The definition of Focus as the “relatively most salient or important information”
(e.g. Siewierska 1991: 174) is rather vague. In written contexts, much depends on
the reader’s assessment, because prosodic prominence as one of the most impor-
tant focussing devices is not available (Siewierska 1991: 175). In the present case,
this difficult point of departure is further complicated by the fact that virtually all
pronouns in SPC positions after it and a form of BE can be considered as focussed,
both in it BE sentences and it-clefts. In it BE sentences, the postverbal pronoun
form can clearly be interpreted as the most important information and has even
been referred to as “focus pronoun” in analogy to it-clefts (Quinn 2005: 242). In
it-clefts, the personal pronoun following it and a form of BE is by definition fo-
cussed, as the main function of the construction is to highlight the clefted con-
stituent (e.g. Biber et al. 1999: 959; Weinert & Miller 1996).
However, Functional Grammar assumes that there are special focussing con-
structions the main function of which is to highlight a certain clausal constituent
as the relatively most important one (e.g. Dik 1997: 291). Hence, if this study’s
central assumption is right, then these special Focus constructions should ex-
hibit differences in the distribution of PCFs when compared to their unmarked
counterparts.
Consequently, the first step to operationalise Focus is to distinguish between
it-clefts and it BE sentences since it-clefts are a special focussing device used to
mark a certain constituent as particularly prominent (e.g. Biber et al. 1999:
959–963; Dik 1997: 291). Hence, a higher share of subject PCFs in it-clefts than in
it BE sentences can be expected.
Although this assumed difference is a necessary condition to attribute a certain
influence to the factor Focus, a simple binary distinction between it-clefts and it BE
sentences is not sufficient. The possible differences could also be attributable to the
syntactic differences between these two constructions, i.e. they could be caused by
the fact that the focussed pronoun in an it-cleft is very often co-referential with the
	 Georg Maier
subject of the following dependent clause which may also influence the distribution
of PCFs (Quirk et al. 1985: 338). Hence, in order to uncover the influence Focus
might have on the distribution of PCFs, a further subdivision is needed, namely
that between “normal” it BE sentences and particularly focussed ones. This assump-
tion forms the sufficient condition for this study’s re-functionalisation hypothesis.
4.2	 Particularly focussed it BE sentences versus normal it BE sentences
For the category of marked it BE sentences, two clause types can be identified in
which the personal pronoun can be considered as particularly focussed. Examples
for the first clause type of particularly focussed it BE sentences are given in (4):
	 (4)	 a.	 And if there is anyone who made it possible for Tony Blair to soar, it is
she. Theirs is a marriage based not only on love but [...]
			 (COCA/2004/ MAG/Bazaar)
		 b.	 If anybody owns that character, it’s Marlon Brando. If anybody can do
what they like with it, it’s him. (BNC/ACP/W_pop_lore)
The clauses in (4) are syntactically it BE sentences. However, they exhibit proper-
ties which set them apart from more prototypical it BE sentences (cf. (6)). The first
characteristic distinguishing them from the more prototypical ones is their syntac-
tic structure as sentences of this category are preceded by an if-clause in which the
subject is either a non-assertive pronoun or a noun phrase modified by a non-­
assertive determiner which is then followed by an it BE sentence serving as the
matrix clause. Very rarely, assertive pronouns or determiners may be used instead
of non-assertive ones. Moreover, the clausal sequence of the sentences in (4) seems
more or less fixed (cf. Maier 2012). In fact, postposing the complete if-clause after
the it BE sentence does not seem to achieve the same effect as preposing it.
Furthermore, this first type of particularly focussed it BE sentences resembles
rather it-clefts than it BE sentences with regard to the quality of Focus that it de-
notes. Whereas prototypical it BE sentences can often be associated with comple-
tive Focus, i.e. information intended to fill a gap in the knowledge of the addressee
(cf. Siewierska 1991: 174–175), the Focus in this type of it BE sentences can be
considered as clearly contrastive, as the focussed pronoun is directly opposed to a
range of alternatives presupposed by the if-clause and the non-assertive pronoun
in the subordinate clause (Siewierska 1991: 177).
Moreover, these particularly focussed it BE sentences are different from proto-
typical it BE sentences and similar to it-clefts in that they resemble what other
studies term “reduced cleft sentence”, i.e. it-clefts with omitted cleft clauses
(cf. Weinert & Miller 1996: 201). Although reduced cleft sentences are not a
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
category employed in this study, as they are very difficult to distinguish from it BE
sentences, this notion is still interesting in the context of particularly focussed it
BE sentences. According to Weinert and Miller (1996: 201–202), reduced clefts
can refer to more or less explicit entities, the majority of them is contrastive and
the presupposed material for the possible contrast evoked by the (reduced) cleft is
usually explicitly present in the preceding discourse which makes the omission of
the cleft clause possible. These characteristics apply to the class of particularly fo-
cussed it BE sentences in (4) very well because they also refer to explicit entities,
i.e. Cherie Blair and Marlon Brando (4a)–(4b), and they can be considered as con-
trastive due to the preceding discourse.
The special status of the pronoun in this type of it BE sentences has also been
observed in previous accounts. Erdmann (1978) states that these sentences ex-
hibit different distributions of PCFs than other it BE sentences and that “the sub-
jective case form is preferably used in sentences where the pronoun in predicate
position is marked as the subject in a preceding or following sentence” (Erdmann
1978: 75). Thus, these marked it BE sentences seem to be good candidates for as-
sessing the influence of Focus.
Examples of the second type of it BE sentence in which the personal pronoun
can be considered as particularly focussed are given in (5):
	 (5)	 a.	 Yi -- for surely it was he -- did not speak for some moments.
		 (COCA/1990/FIC/BkSF:AlchimistsJournal)
		 b.	 Louis Napoleon (President 1848–51; Emperor 1852–70) --; for it was
he --; was the nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte [...]
		 (BNC/ACP/ W_pop_lore)
This second type of particularly focussed it BE sentences can also be distinguished
by its syntactic peculiarities. First of all, this sentence type is singled out by the fact
that it is introduced by the conjunction for. Secondly, the position of these it BE
sentences introduced by for within the sentences in which they are embedded is
syntactically odd. According to Quirk et al. (1985: 922, 1106–1107), clauses intro-
duced with for are not permitted either initially or medially; they have to follow
another clause, a rule which is clearly violated by the sentences in (5).
From a pragmatic point of view, this second class of particularly focussed it BE
sentences is also very remarkable. They differ from rather prototypical it BE sen-
tences in (6) both in their basic function and also in the type of Focus they ex-
hibit. As illustrated by the example in (6), prototypical it BE sentences often supply
information that is needed to “fill a gap in the pragmatic information of the ad-
dressees” (Siewierska 1991: 178). Thus, typical examples of it BE sentences are of-
ten illustrated as answers to questions (cf. Biber et al. 1999: 335; Swan 2005: 428):
	 Georg Maier
	 (6)	 Prototypical it BE sentence
		 A: Who is there?	 B: It’s I/me. (Quirk et al. 1985: 337)
This is different for this second class of marked it BE sentences in (5). In these
sentences, the information supplied by the it BE sentence is already given in the
superordinate clause. Hence, there is no missing information which has to be sup-
plied. Instead, these it BE sentences seem to simply reaffirm the importance of the
subject of the matrix clause. Thus, similar to it-clefts, the speakers or writers of
these particularly focussed it BE sentences seem to exploit the “end-focus within
an SVC clause” (Quirk et al. 1985: 1384) to highlight what they deem to be the
most important piece of information.
This characterisation of these sentences as Focus marking devices is to some
extent also underlined by the introduction of these sentences by the conjunction
for, typically used to cite reasons, causes or detailed proof for something.2 Apart
from expressing causality, this conjunction also evokes a certain degree of contrast
by more or less expressing that the following predication can be made only be-
cause it is the person in question and no one else who is the subject and/or Topic
of the superordinate clause (cf. Siewierska 1991: 149).
In view of the preceding discussion, it seems safe to assume that both classes of
particularly focussed it BE sentences are clearly distinct from more prototypical it
BE sentences both syntactically and pragmatically. Therefore, they seem to be good
candidates for assessing whether Focus influences the choice of PCFs in SPCs.
In the remainder of this article the variable name Focus3, unless otherwise
stated, will refer to the “sufficient” condition of this variable, i.e. the distinction
between unmarked and particularly focussed it BE sentences, as the necessary
condition is covered by the factor Cleft discussed in the following section.
5.	 Additional factors
Apart from Focus, this study also tests the impact of other variables which are
supposed to influence the distribution of PCFs in SPCs according to the body of
literature. These factors will be outlined very briefly below.
		 Cleft: It BE sentences versus it-clefts
2.	 cf. “for, prep. and conj.”. OED Online. September 2012. Oxford University Press. <http://
oed.com/view/Entry/72761?isAdvanced=false&result=2&rskey=dqClE8&> (8 August 2012).
3.	 Henceforth, this study adopts the practice of other quantitative studies to use small capitals
for those factors and variables which are used in the multivariate analysis of the data (e.g.
Szmrecsanyi 2006).
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
The first additional variable is the construction type in which the pronominal
SPC following it and a form of BE occurs. This can be either an it BE sentence (e.g.
Quinn 2005) or an it-cleft (cf. (1)–(2)). Scholarly opinion on whether the differ-
ence between these two sentence types influences the distribution of the pronoun
forms is divided. On the one hand, there are studies that stress the similarity be-
tween these two constructions. According to these accounts, both contexts clearly
favour the object pronoun forms (cf. Emonds 1986: 96–100; Harris 1981: 19–20;
Quinn 2005: 138–139, 242–248). On the other hand, there are accounts observing
marked differences between the distribution of PCFs in it-clefts and it BE sen-
tences (e.g. Biber et al. 1999: 335; Erdmann 1978: 75–78; Wales 1996: 95–99). In
view of this controversy, this variable is included into the subsequent analyses.
Furthermore, this variable is important for another variable, i.e. Focus, as it tests
the necessary condition for the assumption that subject forms have been reanaly-
sed as Focus markers (cf. Section 0).
		 First: First person versus third person pronouns
This study also tests the impact of the difference between first person and third
person on the distribution of PCFs in SPCs.
With regard to it BE sentences, Quinn, who generally notes a prevalence of
object forms in these contexts (e.g. 2005: 246, 2009: 41), states that “[n]on-1sg
nominatives would seem to be extremely rare, and restricted to certain discourse
contexts” (2005: 135). A different picture is depicted in Wales (1996). Although
this account also asserts the dominance of object pronoun forms in it BE sen-
tences, the only authentic examples provided to illustrate the use of subject forms
are third person pronouns (Wales 1996: 95).
As far as it-clefts are concerned, both accounts agree that third person subject
forms are more likely to occur than first person subject forms in this context
(Quinn 2005: 135–140, 2009: 42; Wales 1996: 95–96). Thus, it seems promising to
assess whether there are indeed significant differences in the data with regard to
First and to check whether there are significant interactions between the vari-
ables First and Cleft.
		 Singular: Singular versus plural pronouns
Another variable put forth in the literature is the number of the pronoun, i.e. the
difference between singular and plural pronoun forms (e.g. Sobin 1997; Quinn
2005). However, those accounts that discuss potential differences in the distribu-
tion of PCFs between singular and plural forms in SPCs are again at variance.
With regard to it BE sentences, there are accounts that not only state that sin-
gular pronouns are more likely to occur in their subject form but even explicitly
rule out the possibility of plural subject forms occurring in this construction
	 Georg Maier
(Sobin 1997: 334). For it-clefts, the use of plural subject forms is not generally
ruled out, but is still deemed questionable (Sobin 1997: 334). However, these
claims have not been corroborated by other studies to date (e.g. Quinn 2005: 135;
Wales 1996: 96).
In view of these diverging positions, this study tests the actual influence of this
variable on the distribution of PCFs in SPCs. Furthermore, this inclusion will also
help to determine whether or not there are any interactions with other variables,
such as the sentence type (Sobin 1997).
		 Spok: Spoken versus written discourse
Probably the most frequently mentioned factor as potentially influencing the distri-
bution of PCFs in SPCs is the degree of formality (e.g. Biber et al. 1999: 335–336;
Harris 1981: 18–19; Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 459; Wales 1996: 91–108). Hence,
this study tests whether different modes of discourse, i.e. spoken data vs. written
data, exhibit different distributions in terms of PCFs (cf. Harris 1981: 18–19;
Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 459; Sweet 1875: 495). Assessing potential differences
in formality on the basis of this coarse-grained mode of discourse distinction may,
however, evoke some scepticism because it has been shown that there is no clear
division between all spoken and all written language but rather between planned
and unplanned speech and writing (e.g. Biber 1988; Miller 2006: 671–673). Never-
theless, it is still often assumed that the “spoken register is generally more informal
than the written register [...]” (McEnery, Xiao & Tono 2006: 265). Moreover, the
basic mode of discourse distinction employed for the present study is also reflected
in the relevant literature. Subject forms in variable contexts are generally associated
with formal and written registers, while object forms are more readily associated
with informal written and spoken registers (cf. Hopkins 1975: 28; Wales 1996: 101).
6.	 Hypotheses
This study assumes that subject pronouns have been re-functionalised as postver-
bal Focus markers in SPCs, i.e. it-clefts and it BE sentences. Converting this
assumption into a formalised hypothesis, the following will be tested in the subse-
quent sections:
H1: If subject pronoun case forms have been re-functionalised as Focus markers
in SPCs, then we should note a higher likelihood of subject forms to occur in
more focussed constructions than in less focussed constructions.
In particular, this means that we are supposed to observe a higher share of subject
forms in it-clefts than in it BE sentences and we should also observe a higher
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
proportion of subject pronoun forms in particularly focussed it BE sentences than
in normal it BE sentences.
However, it is also possible that the re-functionalisation hypothesis is wrong
and that those accounts explaining the distribution and variation in PCFs in terms
of pronoun class membership or the pronoun’s position are correct. Hence, this
study also tests the following:
H2: If the distribution of pronoun case forms is mainly determined by position or
pronoun class membership rather than by function, then we should not observe a
higher likelihood of subject forms to occur in more focussed constructions than
in less focussed constructions.
If this second hypothesis is correct, we should observe significant differences in
the distribution of PCFs neither between it-clefts and it BE sentences nor between
particularly focussed it BE sentences and normal it BE sentences.
7.	 Data and methodology
7.1	 Data
This study is based on the online versions of the British National Corpus (BNC)
and the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA), both of which are
accessible at Mark Davies’ website through Brigham Young University.4 Although
they are large-scale representations of varieties of English, they are not entirely
comparable, because they exhibit certain differences, of which the most important
ones are now briefly introduced.
With regard to quantity, the COCA is currently more than four times larger
than the BNC and contains proportionally twice as much spoken data.5 Moreover,
there are also qualitative differences between these two corpora. While the COCA
currently represents the period from 1990–2012 and is being continuously ex-
panded, the BNC data is, on average, older, consisting of data from 1960–1994.
Although these differences may suggest that both corpora represent different gen-
erations of speakers/writers and are hardly comparable at all, a closer look at the
BNC data reveals that no spoken BNC data was collected before 1991 and the vast
majority of the BNC texts, i.e. 93 percent, are taken from the period between
4.	 <http://corpus.byu.edu/> (11July 2010).
5.	 Since the COCA is a dynamic corpus, it is important to note that the data compilation for
this study took place on 23 July 2010. Hence, this study is not based on the currently available
450-million-word version of this corpus but on the 400-million-word version of the COCA.
	 Georg Maier
1985–1994 (Burnard 2007; Leech, Rayson & Wilson 2001: 1). Thus, the intersec-
tion of the data in both corpora with regard to their age is still considerable.
As far as their spoken data are concerned, the COCA data consists of un-
scripted conversations transcribed from TV and radio shows.6 The BNC, however,
represents a much wider spectrum of spoken data, since it not only contains so-
called “context-governed” data, such as transcripts of meetings, debates, seminars
and radio programmes, which is similar to the spoken COCA data, but also a large
“demographic component”. This demographic component comprises informal
conversations recorded by and from a socially-stratified sample of informants
(Aston & Burnard 1998: 31–33). Hence, the BNC represents a much more diversi-
fied spectrum of spoken sub-genres than the COCA.7
There are, however, also qualitative differences in the written data. Whereas
the written COCA data is rather evenly distributed across the genres “fiction”,
“popular magazines”, “newspapers”, and “academic” texts, the spectrum of the
written BNC data is, again, much broader, because it also includes a wide range of
other texts such as manuals, leaflets, advertisements, and letters in order to pro-
vide “a microcosm of British English in its entirety” (Burnard 2007).8 Despite these
differences, the two corpora still seem to be the best means to uncover intra-, and
perhaps even inter-varietal differences in pronoun case distribution between
British and American English, because contexts in which pronoun case variation
typically occur are very infrequent (cf. Quinn 2009).
7.2	 Methodology
Following Biber et al. (1999: 335–336, 1134), this study analysed all instances of
the search strings it + is/was/’s + I/me/he/him/she/her/we/us/they/them occurring
in both the BNC and the COCA, which yielded all potential instances of it BE
sentences and it-clefts with a case-sensitive focal pronoun.9 In order to obtain only
the clear instances of it BE sentences and it-clefts, all ambiguous and irrelevant
constructions were manually excluded from further analysis. As this data refine-
ment is meticulously motivated and described elsewhere (Maier 2012, 2013), the
6.	 Cf. <http://corpus2.byu.edu/coca/compare-bnc.asp> (21 October 2011).
7.	 Cf. <http://corpus2.byu.edu/coca/compare-bnc.asp> (21 October 2011).
8.	 Cf. <http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/docs/URG/BNCdes.html> (21 October 2011) and
<http://corpus2.byu.edu/coca/compare-bnc.asp> (21 October 2011).
9.	 Note that this study analysed only instances of it BE sentences and it-clefts in which the
search string it + BE + PRONOUN was uninterrupted. Despite this limitation, this study can still
draw on more than 5000 data points.
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
present study confines itself to a cursory listing of the most important categories
of excluded tokens, which are given below:
	 (7)	 Search string split in different clauses
		 Whatever it is I’ll need a lot of prayer. (BNC/CC8/W_misc)
	 (8)	 Ambiguous cases
		 So, it’s they – they usually ask people to pose for them and everything, but
then they couldn’t, [...]. (COCA/2010/SPOK/NPR_TellMore)
	 (9)	 Demonstrative use of pronouns
		 [...] and it was them letters (BNC/HVB/S_interview_oral_history)
	 (10)	 Possessive use of pronouns
		 It is me final ambition to top meself. (COCA/1998/MAG Forbes)
	 (11)	 Pronoun-noun phrase constructions
		 So who else could it be? Well, maybe it’s us guitarists!
		 (BNC/C9M/W_pop_lore)
	 (12)	 Pronoun + -ing form
		 He said when I see the wind moving the leaves, it is him waving to me and
I should smile his gorilla smile when that happens.
		 (COCA/2006/SPOK/NPR_Saturday)
	 (13)	 Pronoun succeeded by other non-finite constructions
		 Clinton should do the honorable thing for his party and his country and
resign as it is him, and him alone, responsible for the current division of
this country.  (COCA/1998/NEWS/SanFrancisco)
	 (14)	 Pronoun forms in contact clauses
		 Are you wishing it was I had rolled under in the waves, not me you are, for
doing as you ordered? (BNC/APW/W_fict_prose)
	 (15)	 Ambiguous it-clefts
		 It was them aliens that’s got the admiral spooked. That’s why.
		 (COCA/2005/FIC/Analog)
	 (16)	 Coordinated pronouns in it-clefts
		 It is he or she who will be incurring additional expenses as a result of the
		 accident and whose earning power may have been impaired.
		 (BNC/GVH/W_ac_polit_law_edu)
	 (17)	 Coordinated pronouns in it BE sentences
		 Until then, it’s he and his wife and other family members.
		 (COCA/2003/NEWS/Houston)
	 Georg Maier
	 (18)	 Idiom-like coordinated pronouns10
		 A Bunch of Fives Interference Song It’s TV Newstime -- It’s us and them
		 (BNC/B38/W_misc)
	 (19)	 Idiom-like prepositional constructions11
		 It’s us vs. them. (COCA/2001/SPOK/NPR_FreshAir)
	 (20)	 Negative coordinations
		 It was they, not we, who threw down the challenge.
		 (BNC/HRJ/W_non_ac_polit_law_edu)
	 (21)	 Pronouns with adnominal self-intensifier
		 To take his older self’s wealth would not be stealing, he reasoned, because
it was he himself who would receive it. (COCA/2007/FIC/FantasySciFi)
	 (22)	 Pronouns with metalinguistic meaning
		 Instead of uses of “I” let us consider uses of “It’s me”. (I regard “It’s I” as
pedantic.) (BNC/CK1/W_ac_humanities_arts)
Finally, all instances of clear doublets, near-doublets or repetitions of earlier hits
were excluded as well.
Then, the obtained SPCs were analysed with binary logistic regression mod-
els since this study assumes that the occurrence of either a subject or an object
pronoun form in SPC position may be influenced not only by Focus but also by
other factors. In general, binary logistic regressions are very common because
they allow a prediction of the occurrence rate of a dependent variable based on
the potential influence of a set of independent variables (e.g. Field 2009: 264–315;
Pampel 2000: 1–35). Furthermore, these models are capable of determining the
actual influence of each independent factor as well as its direction. Hence, this
method can clearly determine which factors foster and which ones inhibit the
likelihood of observing subject forms in SPCs (e.g. Backhaus et al. 2008: 52–111;
Pampel 2000: 1–35; Szmrecsanyi 2006: 53–56).12 To facilitate the understanding
10.	 Cf. OED Online: us, pron., n., and adj.”. OED Online. November 2010. Oxford University
Press. <http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/220627?redirectedFrom=us%20and%20them>, (3
December 2010).
11.	 Ibid.
12.	 With regard to model building, this study aims at complying with the Principle of Parsi-
mony. Thus, this study pursues the goal of obtaining the best minimal-adequate models for the
data containing, if possible, only significant variables. This approach is, however, applied not
only to achieve a certain explanatory simplicity and elegance, but also to avoid the serious sta-
tistical problem of model overfitting (e.g. Backhaus et al. 2008: 84). Thus, in order to avoid these
problems and to achieve the best and simultaneously simplest possible explanations for the data,
this study applies a stepwise approach to obtain the best minimal-adequate regression models
(cf. Baayen 2008: 193–194, 204–205; Crawley 2007: 325–329). In addition, another correction
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
of the reported results, some key terms of regression modelling are now briefly
introduced:
Effect sizes: They report a measure of the extent to which a factor influences the
dependent variable (e.g. Field 2009: 785). This study reports effect sizes by means
of regression coefficients and odds ratios.
Regression coefficients: The more a regression coefficient deviates from zero, the
higher the effect of the respective independent variable on the outcome of the de-
pendent variable. Negative values indicate that an independent variable makes a cer-
tain outcome of the dependent variable less likely. A positive regression coefficient
indicates an increased likelihood of a specific parameter value (cf. Gries 2008: 289).
However, they are not standardised and do not allow cross-model comparisons.
Odds ratios: They are standardised effect size measures. Odds are defined as
“the probability of an event occurring divided by the probability of that event not
occurring” (Field 2009: 790). Odds ratios range from 0 to +∞ and indicate the
numerical factor by which the odds of a certain event – in our case the postverbal
occurrence of a subject pronoun form – is multiplied by the presence or absence
of an independent variable (cf. Field 2009: 270–271; Szmrecsanyi 2006: 58). Odds
ratios with a value greater than 1 promote the outcome of a certain value of the
dependent variable, whereas odds ratios smaller than 1 indicate a decreased likeli-
hood of a certain value (Field 2009: 270–271; Pampel 2000: 21–23).
Significance of the model: In addition, this study also reports the likelihood
ratio chi-square values of the models as a whole (cf. Gries 2009: 291–303; Szmrec-
sanyi 2006: 56–58).
Variance explained by the model: To determine whether or not the applied
models are “substantially significant”, this study also reports the Nagelkerke’s R2
value of each regression model (cf. Szmrecsanyi 2006: 55). A Nagelkerke’s R2 value
ranges from 0 to 1. This value specifies the share of variation in the parameter
values of the dependent variable that is explained by the independent variables
(cf. Backhaus et al. 2008: 282–283; Szmrecsanyi 2006: 55).13 An R2 value of 0 im-
plies that there is no correlation between the dependent and the independent vari-
ables, whereas an R2 value of 1 signals a perfect 100 per cent explanation of the
observed variance in the values of the dependent variable (e.g. Backhaus et al.
measure is used to ensure the best possible fit of the statistical models conducted in this study
and to prevent model overfitting, i.e. the “Penalized Maximum Likelihood Estimation” (Baayen
2008: 205–206).
13.	 Although R2 values are not uncontested as a measurement of explanatory power, they are
considered to be a useful yardstick to assess the overall significance of the model (e.g. Field,
Miles & Field 2012: 317–318; Szmrecsanyi 2006: 55)
	 Georg Maier
2008: 263–265, 282–283; Szmrecsanyi 2006: 55). As in similar studies, a model is
deemed “substantially significant” if its R2≥0.05.14
Predictive power of the model: This study also determines the percentage rate
of correctly predicted cases of each individual model (% correctly predicted) com-
pared to the values of the respective baseline model (% baseline). The percentage
rates of correctly predicted cases indicate the exact number of correctly predicted
parameter values of the dependent variable in the underlying model. Hence, this
percentage value reports the number of instances in which the regression model
correctly predicts the occurrence of subject and object forms as observed in the
data. This share is then compared to the percentage rate of the baseline model
which states the accuracy of a model in classifying the data when none of the in-
dependent variables is taken into consideration and hence the outcome of the pre-
diction is the result of pure chance (cf. Szmrecsanyi 2006: 54–55).
According to many accounts (cf. Section 2), we should observe mainly or only
object forms in SPCs. However, since this study assumes that subject forms have been
reanalysed as postverbal Focus markers, we test which factors influence the choice of
a subject form in SPCs. Thus, the dependent variable of this study is the Subject
Form and the independent variables are Cleft, First, Singular, Spok and Focus.
Due to the differences between the BNC and the COCA15, this study examines
each dataset separately. Nevertheless, cross-varietal trends and differences in the
distribution of PCFs in SPCs should still become observable given that they are
salient enough.
8.	 Results
8.1	 The distribution of pronoun case forms in subject predicative complements
in the British National Corpus
After processing the raw data, we are left with 1379 SPCs following it and a form
of BE. Table 2 indicates that nearly half of the tokens, i.e. a share of 46.27 per cent,
have a subject form as the pronominal complement, whereas 53.73 per cent of all
SPCs exhibit an object pronoun case form.
This high share of subject pronoun forms is remarkable if we bear in mind the
mainly theoretical accounts which predict very high or even exclusive shares of
object forms in SPCs (e.g. Harris 1981: 17–20; Quinn 2005: 138, 242–248).
14.	 For alternative views see Backhaus et al. (2008: 270).
15.	 “The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and the British National Cor-
pus (BNC)”. Davies,Mark. Brigham Young University. 2011. <http://corpus2.byu.edu/coca/
compare-bnc.asp> (21 October 2011).
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
Table 2.  Subject predicative complements in the BNC: The token numbers.
Total N Subject Forms N Object Forms N
Subject Predicative
Complements (BNC)
1379 (100%) 638 (46.27%) 741 (53.73%)
Since this study aims to apply minimal-adequate models (cf. Backhaus et al. 2008:
84), Table 3 below only includes significant variables.16 For the regression model
applied here, this means that the only factor not included in the regression model
is Singular (cf. Table 3). Thus, differences in number do not influence the choice
of PCFs in the BNC. While the non-significance of this factor is in line with the
observations of Quinn (2005: 135) and Wales (1996: 96), this finding contradicts
the assumptions of Sobin (1997: 334) who asserts that differences in number influ-
ence the distribution of PCFs. In addition to the variable Number, several interac-
tions17 were also eliminated from the final regression model.18
Table 3.  Subject predicative complements in the BNC: Logistic regression results.
Variable Coefficient P-Value Odds Ratio
Cleft   4.64 *** 103.39
First –0.49 n.s.    0.61
Spok   0.66 +    1.93
Focus   2.32 ***   10.16
Spok*Cleft –3.53 ***    0.03
Cleft*First –1.59 ***    0.20
Model χ2       903.32 (***)
R2   0.64
% Correctly
Predicted
84.41
% Baseline 53.73
N 1379
+ significant at p<0.1, * significant at p<0.05, ** significant at p<0.01, *** significant at p<0.001
16.	 However, non-significant factors are retained in the minimal-adequate models if they are
involved in a significant interaction (cf. Gries 2008: 288).
17.	 Interactions between factors are signalled by means of an asterisk (e.g. Szmrecsanyi 2006: 57).
18.	 The interactions eliminated from the minimal-adequate model are the following:
Spok*First, Spok*Singular, Spok*Focus, Cleft*Singular, First*Singular, First*Focus,
Singular*Focus.
	 Georg Maier
To start with the significant variables, the factor Cleft is very highly significant
and it is the strongest predictor in the model (cf. Table 3). Its odds ratio of 103.39
indicates that it exerts an enormously strong influence on the choice of PCFs in
SPCs, clearly promoting the use of subject forms. Thus, this result corroborates
accounts arguing for marked differences in the distribution of PCFs between it-
clefts and it BE sentences (e.g. Biber et al. 1999: 335–336; Erdmann 1978; Maier
2013). At the same time, however, this finding seriously undermines accounts
which stress the similarity of pronoun case distribution in it-clefts and it BE sen-
tences and which also mainly assume that the distribution of PCFs is solely gov-
erned either by the position or by the weak or strong class membership of a pro-
noun (e.g. Emonds 1986: 96–100; Harris 1981: 19–20). Thus, the additional
functional and pragmatic load of the pronoun in it-clefts seems to promote the use
of subject PCFs.
The second variable retained in the final regression model is First. By itself,
however, First is not significant; it only becomes significant in combination with
another factor. Thus, although the body of literature assumes differences within
both it BE sentences and it-clefts with regard to the likelihood of subject PCFs
occurring in the first or third person (Quinn 2005: 135–140, 246; Wales 1996:
95–96), the BNC data do not exhibit significant differences.
Spok is also retained in the statistical model (cf. Table 3). Even though Spok is
only marginally significant, it is still remarkable that the outcome of this factor
does not correspond to the expectations of the literature, as it is basically uncon-
tested that the more formal a communicative situation is, the more likely it is that
a subject pronoun form will occur (e.g. Biber et al. 1999: 335–336; Harris 198:
18–19). However, the BNC data suggest quite the opposite, as the odds ratio of
1.93 indicates. In the BNC, the spoken mode of discourse tends to promote rather
than inhibit the use of subject forms, which is indeed a fairly unexpected finding.
Moreover, Focus is also identified as very highly significant and as strongly
promoting the use of subject PCFs in SPCs, as its odds ratio of 10.16 indicates. In
fact, it is the second strongest factor in the minimal-adequate model.
In addition, two interactions also turn out to be significant.19 The first very
highly significant interaction is Spok*Cleft, exhibiting an odds ratio of 0.03. This
indicates that it-clefts with a subject form as focal pronoun are much rarer in the
spoken than in the written data of the BNC. Hence, accounts asserting an inhibit-
ing impact of spoken language on the likelihood of observing subject forms in
19.	 According to an anonymous reviewer, it is not possible to have “simple“ as well as “crossed“,
i.e. interacting factors, in the same model. With binary logistic regressions, this is, however, pos-
sible (cf. Gries 2008, pp. 284–294). Sometimes, the main effects are simply not as explicitly dis-
cussed as their interactions in binary logistic regressions in case the interaction is much more
interesting than the main effect (Field, Miles & Field 2012: 350).
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
SPCs seem to be right, at least as far as it-clefts are concerned (cf. Biber et al. 1999:
335–336; Maier 2013; Quirk et al. 1985: 337–338).
The second very highly significant interaction is that between First and
Cleft. Thus, it-clefts with a first person subject pronoun form as focal pro-
noun are considerably less frequent than their third person counterparts. This
is in line with the results of other studies reporting a higher probability for
third person pronouns than for first person pronouns to occur in their subject
form as focal pronouns of it-clefts (e.g. Quinn 2005: 135–136; Wales 1996:
95–96).
The statistical model as a whole is also very highly significant (χ2 = 903.32,
p<0.001). With regard to the variance explained, the applied regression model
fares well with a Nagelkerke’s R2 value of 0.64, accounting for 64 per cent of the
observed variation in the dependent variable. Furthermore, the model is able to
predict 84.41 per cent of all tokens correctly. Thus, the model used here improves
the baseline model by more than 30 per cent.
8.2	 The distribution of pronoun case forms in subject predicative complements
in the Corpus of Contemporary American English
As shown in Table 4, the processing of the raw data has yielded a dataset of 3887
SPCs. When comparing the COCA results depicted in Table 4 with those of the
BNC in Section 8.1, we observe that the share of subject PCFs in SPCs in the
COCA is considerably smaller than in the BNC. In the COCA, subject pronouns
account for only roughly 29 per cent of all tokens whereas object forms are used in
nearly 71 per cent of all SPCs (cf. Section 8.1). However, there may be a variety of
reasons for this difference, such as different compositions of the datasets with re-
gard to the proportions of it BE sentences and it-clefts included in the superordi-
nate SPC category (cf. Maier 2013). Therefore, we will now turn to the multivariate
statistical analysis of the COCA data to uncover which factors actually exert a
significant influence on the distribution of PCFs.
Table 4.  Subject predicative complements in the COCA: The token numbers.
Total N Subject Forms N Object Forms N
Subject Predicative
Complements
(COCA)
3887 (100%) 1131 (29.10%) 2756 (70.90%)
	 Georg Maier
Table 5.  Subject predicative complements in the COCA: Logistic regression results.
Variable Coefficient P-Value Odds Ratio
Cleft   4.86 *** 128.77
First –1.10 ***    0.33
Singular –0.42 *    0.66
Spok –0.74 ***    0.48
Focus   1.58 ***    4.87
Cleft*First –1.11 ***    0.33
Model χ2 2704.16 (***)
R2 0.72
% Correctly
Predicted
90.40
% Baseline 70.90
N 3887
+ significant at p<0.1, * significant at p<0.05, ** significant at p<0.01, *** significant at p<0.001
As illustrated in Table 5, all independent variables discussed in Section 5 are re-
tained in the minimal-adequate regression model. Furthermore, one very highly
significant interaction is also maintained.20
Again, Cleft is very highly significant and also substantially promotes the use
of subject PCFs in SPCs, which becomes apparent from its odds ratio of 128.77.
Thus, Cleft is again the strongest factor in the regression model. This finding sup-
ports accounts highlighting the differences in the distribution of PCFs between it
BE sentences and it-clefts (e.g. Biber et al. 1999: 335–336; Erdmann 1978). At the
same time, however, this observation challenges accounts arguing for a similarity
of these two sentence types in terms of the distribution of PCFs (e.g. Emonds
1986: 96–100; Harris 1981: 19–20).
First is also identified as very highly significant. With an odds ratio of 0.33,
First clearly inhibits the use of subject PCFs. While this finding conflicts with
studies reporting a higher share of first person subject pronouns than third person
pronouns in it BE sentences (e.g. Quinn 2005: 246), this result is in line with ob-
servations made about it-clefts according to which third person subject pronouns
are more likely to be used than first person subject forms in this sentence type (e.g.
Quinn 2009: 42; Wales 1996: 95–96).
Singular is also retained as significant in the minimal-adequate model. This
factor exhibits an odds ratio of 0.66 and thus inhibits the use of subject pronoun
20.	 The following interactions were eliminated in the course of the model-building process:
Cleft*Spok, Cleft*Singular, Spok*First, Spok*Singular, Spok*Focus, First*Singular,
First*Focus, Singular*Focus.
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
forms in SPCs. This observation stands in contrast to the expectations of the lit-
erature which predict that plural subject forms are less likely than singular subject
pronouns to occur in it-clefts and in it BE sentences (Sobin 1997: 334).
Spok is also identified as being very highly significant and this factor clearly
decreases the chances for observing subject PCFs in the analysed contexts, as can
be inferred from its odds ratio of 0.48. This result is in accordance with the expec-
tations of the literature, which unequivocally assumes a general preference for ob-
ject PCFs and a lower probability of observing subject pronoun forms in more
informal/spoken contexts (e.g. Harris 1981: 18–19; Huddleston & Pullum 2002:
459; Wales 1996: 91–108).
In addition, Focus is identified as a very highly significant factor substantially
promoting the use of subject PCFs. Its odds ratio of 4.87 signals that Focus turns
out to be the second strongest factor in the minimal-adequate model and that it
promotes very strongly the use of subject PCFs in SPCs.
Finally, the regression model also identifies the interaction between Cleft
and First as statistically very highly significant. Hence, the probability of observ-
ing an it-cleft with a first person subject pronoun case form as focal pronoun is
lower than observing an it-cleft with a third person subject pronoun case form as
focal pronoun. The inhibiting effect of this interaction becomes apparent from its
odds ratio of 0.33. This finding is in accordance with the results of other studies
observing a higher probability of third person than of first person pronouns to
occur in their subject form as focal pronoun of it-clefts (e.g. Quinn 2005: 135–136;
Wales 1996: 95–96) and with the observations about the BNC data.
Table 5 also indicates a very strong correlation between the independent vari-
ables and the dependent variable, since the applied regression model is statisti-
cally very highly significant (χ2 = 2704.16, p<0.001). Furthermore, the model is
able to account for 72 per cent of the variation observed in the dependent variable
as its Nagelkerke’s R2 value of 0.72 indicates. Moreover, the statistical model is able
to correctly predict the outcome of the dependent variable in 90.40 per cent of all
cases, improving the baseline by 19.50 per cent.
9.	 Discussion
The analysis of the data has demonstrated that there are very pronounced differ-
ences between it-clefts and it BE sentences with regard to the distribution of PCFs.
In both corpora, Cleft has been identified not only as the factor with the highest
odds ratio but also as a factor that substantially promotes the use of postverbal sub-
ject pronouns. Moreover, Focus has also been identified as a very highly significant
factor that strongly promotes the use of subject PCFs in both the BNC and the
	 Georg Maier
COCA. In both datasets, it is also identified as the second strongest factor in the
minimal-adequate regression models. A further similarity of both datasets is the
significant interaction between the factors Cleft and First resulting in a lower
likelihood of observing first person than third person subject pronouns in it-clefts.
The results for the other factors are, however, less uniform across the two ex-
amined corpora. Whereas First significantly inhibits the use of subject PCFs in
the COCA, this factor is only significant in the BNC when interacting with the
factor Cleft. Additionally, while Singular significantly inhibits the use of subject
forms in the COCA, it is not significantly influencing the distribution of PCFs in
the BNC, where it is even eliminated from the minimal-adequate model. Differ-
ences between the two corpora are also observable for the factor Spok. As as-
sumed by much of the literature (e.g. Harris 1981: 18–19; Huddleston & Pullum
2002: 459; Wales 1996: 91–108), Spok markedly constrains the use of subject forms
in the COCA. However, this inhibiting effect of Spok contrasts with the observa-
tions made for the BNC data in Section 8.1, where this factor promotes rather than
inhibits the use of subject forms. An inhibiting impact of Spok in the BNC can
only be attested when interacting with the factor Cleft. The difference between
the two corpora with regard to this factor is even more striking when bearing in
mind that the spoken data of the COCA is in its totality more formal than the
spoken data of the BNC (cf. Aston & Burnard 1998: 31–33).21 Thus, these results
indicate that there seem to be also pronounced cross-varietal differences in the
distribution of pronoun case forms in SPCs with regard to certain factors.
In sum, however, the multivariate statistical analysis of the data has identified
Cleft not only as significantly promoting the use of subject forms in SPCs but
also as the factor with the strongest impact in both corpora examined for this
study. Thus, the necessary condition allowing the assumption that subject PCFs
have been reanalysed as Focus markers in SPCs is met by both the BNC and the
COCA (cf. Section 4.1).
Furthermore, the analysis of the data has shown that Focus, as operationa-
lised in Section 4.2, also significantly influences the distribution of PCFs in the
SPCs of the BNC and the COCA. In each of these datasets, Focus clearly pro-
motes the use of subject PCFs. Thus, for both the BNC and the COCA, the suffi-
cient condition that allows us to assume that subject pronoun forms have been
reanalysed as Focus markers in SPCs is also met. As a consequence, hypothesis H1
assuming that we should observe higher shares of subject pronoun forms in more
focussed contexts than in less focussed ones can be clearly confirmed for these
21.	 “The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and the British National Cor-
pus (BNC)”. Davies, Mark. Brigham Young University. 2011. <http://corpus2.byu.edu/coca/
compare-bnc.asp> (21 October 2011).
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
datasets (cf. Section 6). Hence, we can conclude that subject PCFs are indeed used
as Focus markers in SPCs – at least in British and American English.
This is further corroborated by the results obtained for the interaction between
the factors First and Cleft, which are very well compatible with this study’s major
assumption and which can be accounted for by the fundamental differences be-
tween first and third person pronouns. First person pronouns always denote refer-
ents, i.e. the speaker or speakers, who are actively involved in a communicative
situation. They are prototypically deictic because their referents are co-referential
with the persons involved in a communicative situation. Moreover, they are those
discourse entities that are most likely to receive our attention (e.g. Langacker 1991:
307; Siewierska 2004: 5–8). Thus, the relevance of first person pronouns and their
referents is automatically given simply by using these pronouns, since they identify
their referents as salient information for both the speaker and the hearer. Although
third person pronouns can also be deictic, they are prototypically used as phoric
expressions, i.e. referring backward or forward to referents mentioned in the previ-
ous or subsequent discourse (e.g. Siewierska 2004: 7). Hence, in SPCs, the referents
of third person pronouns may be additionally highlighted by means of subject pro-
noun forms to underline their relevance for the immediate communicative situa-
tion and to clearly identify them as the Focus of the clause. This may explain, for
example, why first person pronouns are less likely to occur in their subject forms in
the COCA. Moreover, if First coincides with Cleft, the combination of two such
pragmatically salient factors, i.e. a first person pronoun in the focal position of an
it-cleft, may be sufficient to identify the referent/referents of the first person pro-
noun as the most salient piece of information (e.g. Dik 1978: 130). Such a “trade-
off” (Dik 1989: 278) between different focussing strategies could explain why third
person pronouns are more likely to receive additional Focus marking by means of
subject PCFs, particularly in it-clefts.
However, the second hypothesis formalising the assumption that the distribu-
tion of PCFs is mainly or solely determined by the pronoun’s position in relation
to the finite verb or by its assumed pronoun class membership is difficult to recon-
cile with the obtained results (Section 6). In view of the strong impact of the clear-
ly functional factors Cleft and Focus on the distribution of PCFs observed in
this study, hypothesis H2 is severely challenged. Indeed, it cannot be confirmed
given the results of this study.
Moreover, the analysis of the BNC and the COCA has also shown that the
distribution of PCFs in SPCs is subject to several factors and differs from corpus to
corpus. Thus, monocausal explanations are obviously not suitable to account for
complex variation phenomena, even in well-defined contexts.
Although this study has been confined to the narrowly delimited context of
SPCs, the relevance of the principle with the help of which the re-­
functionalisation
	 Georg Maier
of case forms to postverbal Focus markers has been explained, i.e. markedness
reversal, may not be restricted to it-clefts and it BE sentences. Markedness reversal
could also account for the use of subject PCFs in other postverbal contexts such as
coordinated object noun phrases. Similar to the use of subject pronouns in SPCs,
it is possible that subject pronouns may be used in coordinated object noun phras-
es to mark the referents of these pronouns as the Focus of the clause (cf. (23)):
	 (23)	 Subject pronouns in coordinated object noun phrases
		 (Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 463)
		 The present was supposed to represent Helen and I, that was the problem.
Very often, the use of subject pronouns in coordinated object noun phrases is
considered to be a form of hypercorrection resulting from the avoidance of using
object pronouns in coordinated subjects (e.g. Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 459;
Quirk et al. 1985: 338). However, the principle of markedness reversal could offer
a functional motivation for the use of subject pronouns in coordinated objects.
This functional account could also explain why the use of subject pronouns in
coordinated noun phrases in object position, and particularly in constructions
with final subject I, are “so common in speech and used by so broad a range of
speakers that it has to be recognised as a variety of Standard English” (Huddleston
& Pullum 2002: 463). Thus, future studies may examine whether or not marked-
ness reversal and a possible re-functionalisation of subject pronouns as Focus
markers may also help to explain the use of subject forms in coordinated object
noun phrases and even perhaps also the use of subject pronoun forms in other
postverbal contexts such as than-comparatives.
Moreover, the principle of markedness reversal may help to account not only
for the use of subject pronouns in “object territory”, but also for the opposite
scenario, i.e. the use of object pronouns in preverbal “subject territory” (Quirk
et al. 1985: 337). It could be hypothesised that object pronoun forms have been
re-functionalised in subject territory to mark the Topic, i.e. the entity “the utter-
ance is primarily about” (Siewierska 1991: 149). Contexts supporting such an
assumption include, for example, left dislocations, i.e. contexts in which a noun
phrase occurs in sentence-initial position and an anaphoric pronoun is used as
its substitute in the following sentence (cf. Quirk et al. 1985: 1310). Although left
dislocations have often been mentioned as exhibiting variability in the use of
pronoun forms (e.g. Erdmann 1978: 68–69; Quinn 2005: 214–228), the variabil-
ity of this context has been called into question as some accounts consider object
forms to be not the preferred, but indeed the only option (Huddleston & Pullum
2002: 462):
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
	 (24)	 Object pronoun in left dislocation (Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 462)
		 Me, I wouldn’t trust him further than I could throw him.
With regard to left dislocations, it could be argued that this clear preference of
object pronouns is also attributable to the principle of markedness reversal. In
these contexts, unexpected object pronoun forms are used in subject territory to
mark pragmatically salient constituents, i.e. in this case the Topic of the sentence.
This assumption is corroborated by accounts stating that the functions of left dis-
locations include both “emphasis” and establishing a “topic” (Biber et al. 1999:
956–957). Moreover, this preliminary hypothesis is also supported by the fact that
subject pronouns are very often repeated sentence-initially in order to buy pro-
cessing time (Biber et al. 1999: 334–335):
	 (25)	 Repetition of subject pronouns in sentence-initial position
		 I, I, I, I got, I told you, I told you, Mick told me, I thought no you didn’t.
(conv) (Biber et al. 1999: 334)
Hence, object pronouns are much more salient in sentence-initial position and
thus may be better suited to mark the referent of the dislocated pronoun explicitly
as the Topic of the following clause. This is not only because they are unexpected
per se in subject territory, but also because repeated, sentence-initial subject pro-
noun forms may be rather perceived as processing time buyers than as pragmati-
cally salient Topic markers. Thus, the principle of markedness reversal as well as
the reanalysis of former case forms to pragmatic markers may even account for the
use of object pronouns in subject territory.
This principle as well as the pragmatic reanalysis of former case forms can
reconcile even accounts on the distribution of PCFs that seem at first glance
mutually exclusive. While some studies observe a “general tendency in collo-
quial English to use subject forms in non-subject functions, e.g. after preposi-
tions (between you and I) [...]“ (Wagner 2004: 159), other authors attest a “general
tendency [...] for the accusative forms to spread into contexts traditionally as-
sociated with the nominative case“ (Biber et al. 1999: 335). Although these
accounts may seem to exclude each other, these opposing views are highly com-
patible with the principle of markedness reversal and the reanalysis of former
case forms to pragmatic markers.
Therefore, the principle of markedness reversal as well as the pragmatic re-
functionalisation of the remnants of the former case system may help to explain
the distribution and variability of PCFs in many contexts of Present-Day English.
Indeed, markedness reversal and the finding that many varieties have re-function-
alised former case forms to pragmatic contrasts are promising starting points for
future studies analysing the distribution of PCFs in variable contexts.
	 Georg Maier
10.	 Conclusion
By analysing the distribution of PCFs in SPCs in British and American English,
this study has demonstrated that functional factors exert a tremendous influence
on the distribution of PCFs in Present-Day English. More specifically, this study
has shown that subject PCFs have been re-functionalised as Focus markers in
SPCs in the two examined varieties.
Furthermore, this study has also demonstrated that even elusive pragmatic
factors such as Focus can be operationalised, when carefully considered, and
hence can be made accessible to quantitative testing. This, too, is a very promis-
ing finding.
Finally, this study has identified markedness reversal as a principle that can
account for the variation observed in SPC contexts. It is very plausible that this
principle can also help to explain the distribution of pronoun forms in other con-
texts associated with variability in the use of pronoun forms in English. To find out
the extent to which markedness reversal can also explain, for example, the distri-
bution of PCFs in left dislocations and coordinated noun phrases may be the ob-
jective of future studies.
Sources
BYU-BNC. Davies, M. (2004–). (Based on the British National Corpus from Oxford University
Press). <http://corpus.byu.edu/bnc> (22 July 2010) [date of data compilation].
“for, prep. and conj.”. OED Online. September 2012. Oxford University Press. <http://oed.com/
view/Entry/72761?isAdvanced=false&result=2&rskey=dqClE8&> (8 August, 2012).
The Corpus of Contemporary American English: 450 million words, 1990–present. Davies, M.
(2008–).<http://corpus.byu.edu/coca> (23 July 2010) [date of data compilation].
“The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and the British National Corpus
(BNC)”. Davies, Mark. Brigham Young University. 2011. <http://corpus2.byu.edu/coca/
compare-bnc.asp> (21 October 21).
References
Angermeyer, S. & Singler, J. V. 2003. The case for politeness: Pronoun variation in co-ordinate
NPs in object position. Language Variation and Change 15: 171–209. DOI: 10.1017/
S0954394503152027
Aston, G. & Burnard, L. 1998. The BNC Handbook: Exploring the British National Corpus with
Sara. Edinburgh: EUP.
Baayen, R.H. 2008. Analyzing Linguistic Data: A Practical Introduction to Statistics using R. Cam-
bridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511801686
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
Backhaus, K., Erichson, B., Plinke, W. & Weiber, R. 2008. Multivariate Analysemethoden. Eine
anwendungsorientierte Einführung, 12th edn. Berlin: Springer.
Biber, D. 1988. Variation across Speech and Writing. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO97
80511621024
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S. & Finegan, E. 1999. Longman Grammar of Spoken
and Written English. Harlow: Pearson Education.
Burnard, L. 2007. BNC User Reference Guide. Oxford: University of Oxford. <http://www.nat-
corp.ox.ac.uk/docs/URG/BNCdes.html> (21 October 2011).
Burridge, K. 2004. Synopsis: morphological and syntactic variation in the Pacific and Austral-
asia. In Kortmann et al. (eds), 1116–1131.
Butt, M. 2006. Theories of Case. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139164696
Cooper, C. [1685] 1968. Grammatica Linguae Anglicanae [English Linguistics 1500–1800. A
Collection of Facsimile Reprints [86]], R.C. Alston. Menston: Scolar Press.
Crawley, M.J. 2007. The R Book. Chichester: Wiley. DOI: 10.1002/9780470515075
Denison, D. 1993. English Historical Syntax. London: Longman.
Dik, S.C. 1978. Functional Grammar. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing.
Dik, S.C. 1989. The Theory of Functional Grammar, Part I: The Structure of the Clause. Dor-
drecht: Foris.
Dik, S.C. 1997. The Theory of Functional Grammar, Part II: Complex and Derived Constructions,
K. Hengeveld (ed.). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Emonds, J. 1985. A Unified Theory of Syntactic Categories. Dordrecht: Foris.
Emonds, J. 1986. Grammatically deviant prestige constructions. In A Festschrift for Sol Saporta,
M. Brame, H. Contreras & F. Neumayer. (eds), 92–129. Seattle WA: Noit Amrofer.
Erdmann: 1978. It’s I, it’s me: A case for syntax. Studia Anglica Posnaniensia. 10: 67–80.
Field, A. 2009. Discovering Statistics Using SPSS (and sex and drugs and rock ’n’ roll), 3rd edn. Los
Angeles CA: Sage.
Field, A., Miles, J. & Field, Z. 2012. Discovering Statistics Using R. Los Angeles CA: Sage.
Greenbaum, S. 1996. The Oxford English Grammar. Oxford: OUP.
Gries, S.T. 2008. Statistik für Sprachwissenschaftler. Göttingen: Vandenhoeck and Ruprecht.
Gries, S.T. 2009. Statistics for Linguists with R: A Practical Introduction. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110216042
Haegeman, L. & Guéron J. 1999. English Grammar: A Generative Perspective. Oxford: Blackwell.
Harris, M. 1981. It’s I, it’s me: Further Reflections. Studia Anglica Posnaniensia 13: 17–20.
Haspelmath, M. 2006. Against markedness (and what to replace it with). Journal of Linguistics
42: 25–70. DOI: 10.1017/S0022226705003683
Hollmann, W.B. 2009. Grammatical change. In English Language: Description, Variation and
Context, J. Culperer, F. Katamba, P. Kerswill, R. Wodak & T. McEnery (eds), 314–333. Bas-
ingstoke: Palgrave MacMillan.
Hopkins, E.A. 1975. Clefts and case: Two Sources of interference for FL learners. Die Unterrich-
tspraxis/Teaching German 8: 27–38. DOI: 10.2307/3529749
Huber, M. 1999. Ghanaian Pidgin English in its West African Context. A Sociohistorical and
Structural Analysis [Varieties of English around the World G24]. Amsterdam: John Benja-
mins. DOI: 10.1075/veaw.g24
Huddleston, R. & Pullum G. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. Cam-
bridge: CUP.
Hudson, R. 1995. Does English really have case? Journal of Linguistics 31: 375–392. DOI:
10.1017/S0022226700015644
	 Georg Maier
Jespersen, O. 1933. Essentials of English Grammar. London: Allen and Unwin.
Kjellmer, G. 1986. ‘Us Anglos are a cut above the field’: On objective pronouns in nominative
contexts. English Studies: A Journal of English Language and Literature 67: 445–449. DOI:
10.1080/00138388608598470
Kortmann, B., Schneider, E., Burridge, K., Mesthrie, R. & Upton, C. (eds) 2004. A Handbook of
Varieties of English, Vol. 2: Morphosyntax. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783
110197181
Langacker, R.W. 1991. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol II: Descriptive Application. Stan-
ford CA: Stanford University Press.
Lass, R. 1990. How to do things with junk: Exaptation in language evolution. Journal of Linguis-
tics 26: 79–102. DOI: 10.1017/S0022226700014432
Lass, R. 2006. Phonology and morphology. In A History of the English Language, R. Hogg & D.
Denison (eds), 43–108. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511791154.003
Leech, G., Paul Rayson & Wilson, A. 2001. Word Frequencies in Written and Spoken English –
Based on the British National Corpus. Harlow: Longman.
Maier, G. 2012. The Distribution of Pronoun Case Forms in Subject Predicative Complements:
A Corpus- and Web-Based Study of Pronoun Case Variation. PhD dissertation, University
of Hamburg.
Maier, G. 2013. As the case may be: A corpus-based approach to pronoun case variation in
subject-predicative complements in British and American English. In Proceedings of ICAME
31 [Varieng: Studies in Variation, Contacts and Change in English], J. Mukherjee & M.
Huber (eds), 228–245. Giessen: University of Giessen.
Mayerthaler, W. 1981. Morphologische Natürlichkeit. Wiesbaden: Athenaion.
McEnery, T., Xiao, R. & Tono, Y. 2006. Corpus-Based Language Studies: An Advanced Resource
Book. London: Routledge.
Miller, J. 2006. Spoken and written English. In The Handbook of English Linguistics, B. Aarts &
A. McMahon (eds), 670–691. Malden MA: Blackwell. DOI: 10.1002/9780470753002.ch28
Montgomery, M.B. 2004. Appalachian English: morphology and syntax. In Kortmann et al.
(eds), 245–280.
Paddock, H. 1991. The actuation problem for gender change in Wessex versus Newfoundland.
In Dialects of English. Studies in Grammatical Variation, P. Trudgill & J.K. Chambers (eds),
29–46. London: Longman.
Paddock, H. 1994. From CASE to FOCUS in the pronouns of some Wessex-based dialects of
English. In Function and Expression in Functional Grammar, E. Engberg-Pedersen, L. Fal-
ster Jakobson & L.S. Rasmussen (eds), 255–264. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Pampel, F.C. 2000. Logistic Regression: A Primer (Quantitative Applications in the Social Sciences
132. Thousand Oaks US: Sage.
Pietsch, L. 2007. Nominative subjects of non-finite constructions in Hiberno-English. In Con-
nectivity in Grammar and Discourse [Hamburg Studies on Multilingualism 5], J. Rehbein,
C. Hohenstein & L. Pietsch (eds), 165–184. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/
hsm.5.10pie
Pietsch, L. 2009. English in Ireland: Grammar in Language Contact. PhD dissertation, Univer-
sity of Hamburg.
Poussa, P. 1997. Derivation of it from þat in eastern dialects of British English. In Linguistic His-
tory and Linguistic Modelling: A Festschrift for Jacek Fisiak on his 60th Birthday, R. Hickey &
S. Puppel (eds), 691–699. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
	 The reanalysis of subject pronouns as focus markers	 
Quinn, H. 2005. The Distribution of Pronoun Case Forms in English [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguis-
tics Today 82]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/la.82
Quinn, H. 2009. Pronoun forms. In Comparative Studies in Australian and New Zealand Gram-
mar and Beyond [Varieties of English around the World G39], P. Peters, P. Collins & A.
Smith (eds), 31–47. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/veaw.g39.03qui
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G. & Svartvik, J. 1985. A Comprehensive Grammar of the Eng-
lish Language. London: Longman.
Radford, A. 2009. Analysing English Sentences: A Minimalist Approach. Cambridge: CUP. DOI:
10.1017/CBO9780511801617
Shorrocks, G. 1992. Case assignment in simple and coordinate constructions in Present-Day
English. American Speech 67: 432–444. DOI: 10.2307/455850
Siewierska, A. 1991. Functional Grammar. London: Routledge.
Siewierska, A. 2004. Person. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511812729
Sobin, N. 1997. Agreement, Default Rules, and Grammatical Viruses. Linguistic Inquiry 28:
318–343.
Swan, M. 2005. Practical English Usage, 3rd edn. Oxford: OUP.
Sweet, H. 1875. Words, logic and grammar. Transactions of the Philological Society: 470–503.
Szmrecsanyi, B. 2006. Morphosyntactic Persistence in Spoken English. A Corpus Study. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110197808
Trudgill, P. 2004. The dialect of East Anglia: morphology and syntax. In Kortmann et al.(eds),
142–153.
Wagner, S. 2002. We ‘don’ ‘say ‘she, ‘do us? Pronoun Exchange – a feature of English dialects?
Manuscript, Universität Freiburg, 2002. <http://www.tu-chemnitz.de/phil/english/ling/
download/Wagner2002PronounExchange.pdf> (22 July 2010).
Wagner, S. 2004. English dialects in the Southwest: Morphology and syntax. In Kortmann et al.
(eds), 154–174.
Wales, K. 1996. Personal Pronouns in Present-Day English. Cambridge: CUP.
Weinert, R. & Miller, J. 1996. Cleft constructions in spoken language. Journal of Pragmatics 25:
173–206. DOI: 10.1016/0378-2166(94)00079-4
part 3
Patterns in complementation structures
Null objects and sentential complements,
with evidence from the Corpus of Historical
American English
Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
University of Tampere
The present article discusses the occurrence of covert NP objects in object
control structures with the matrix verb warn. The existence of such structures
is at odds with Bach’s Generalization, which effectively states that the NP object
in an object control structure may not be omitted. Evidence from COHA is
introduced and discussed, to shed new light on the apparent exceptions to
the Generalization. The frequency of the construction is tracked over the
course of the past two centuries, and the nature of the covert NP object is also
examined. The question is raised as to whether this NP can be assigned a general
interpretation, as has been claimed in the literature, or whether a more specific
interpretation is appropriate.
Keywords: understood objects, Bach’s Generalization, object control, diachronic
change in American English
1.	 Introduction
Consider sentences (1a–c), from the Corpus of Historical American English,
COHA:
	 (1)	 a.	 ... he had nearly persuaded the young lady to go up and ask him his
name. (1950, COHA, FIC)
		 b.	 ... lawyers dissuaded the mother from filing suit.
			 (1951, COHA, MAG)
		 c.	 Perhaps I can persuade her into paying you ... (1875, COHA, FIC)
The sentences in (1a–c) illustrate different syntactic constructions in English, but
they are similar in that all of them exhibit object control. In each sentence the
	 Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
higher verb – persuade in (1a, c) and dissuade in (1b) – selects three arguments,
assigning them semantic roles. The first argument is the subject of the higher
clause, which has the role of Agent in each case. The second is the direct object of
the higher clause, which bears the Patient or Undergoer role. It is worth noting
that in each case the argument status of the post-verbal NP means that the sen-
tences are control constructions, and that they are not NP Movement structures.
As far as the third argument is concerned, its syntactic form varies in the three
sentences. In (1a) it is a to infinitival clause, in (1b) it is what may be termed a from
-ing complement, and in (1c) it may be termed an into -ing complement. The sen-
tences in (1a–c) show that object control constructions may involve both to in-
finitives and ‑ing clauses, which may also be termed gerunds. In each of (1a–c) it
may be assumed that the complement is sentential, because this assumption makes
it possible to represent the argument structure of the lower verb and the semantic
roles assigned by the lower verb in an economical fashion. The understood subject
of a sentential complement in a control structure is represented with the label
PRO, as is normal in the literature today. The label Goal may be assigned to the
third argument of the object control structures in question.
A more specific set of semantic labels for the three arguments was proposed by
Sag & Pollard (1991). They write:
Verbs of the order/permit type all submit to a semantic analysis involving states
of affairs (soas) where a certain participant (the referent of the object) is in-
fluenced by another participant (the referent of the subject) to perform an action
(characterized in terms of the soa denoted by the VP complement). The influ-
encing participant may be an agent (as in Kim persuaded Sandy to leave) or a
nonagent (as in Ignorance of thermodynamics compelled Pat to enroll in a poetry
class). The semantics of all verbs in this class thus involves a soa whose relation is
of the influence type. With respect to such soas, we may identify three seman-
tic roles, which we will refer to as influence (the possibly agentive influencer),
influenced (the typically animate participant influenced by the influence) and
soa-arg (the action that the influenced participant is influenced to perform (or,
in the case of verbs like prevent and forbid, not to perform). [Note omitted] (Sag
& Pollard 1991: 66)
The terms and the analysis proposed by Sag and Pollard are well suited to the ex-
amples of object control given in (1a–c), but the more traditional set of labels is
retained here, in line with most of the literature on object control.
This study examines some aspects of an important generalization relating to
object control that has been proposed in the literature. This is Bach’s Generaliza-
tion. Rizzi formulates it as in (2):
	 Null objects and sentential complements	 
	 (2)	 In object control structures the object NP must be structurally represented.
 (Rizzi 1986: 503)
Bach’s Generalization is supported for instance by the data in (3a–d), from Rizzi
(1986: 503):
	 (3)	 a.	 This leads people to the following conclusion.
		 b.	 This leads to the following conclusion.
		 c.	 This leads people [PRO to conclude what follows].
		 d.	 *This leads [PRO to conclude what follows].
The pattern of (3c), of the same type as (1a), is one of object control. Bach’s Gener-
alization then explains why the direct object of the matrix sentence, which is the
controller of PRO, cannot be omitted in (3c). These sentences may in turn be com-
pared with (3a) and (3b): Bach’s Generalization only applies in object control, and
therefore it does not disallow (3b), with the direct object omitted, since the latter
does not involve control.
There is no doubt that Bach’s Generalization is an important contribution to
the analysis of object control in English, but it is the purpose of the present study
to investigate a class of potential exceptions to it. The class of exceptions in ques-
tion concerns the verb warn, as in (4):
	 (4)	 The Humane Society of New York wishes to warn against trapping dogs
and cats. (1993, COHA, News)
The third argument of sentence (4) may be termed an against -ing complement. It
is a gerund introduced by the preposition against, and consisting of a preposition
and a gerund, it is similar to the from ‑ing and into ‑ing complements of (1b) and
(1c) above. It also seems clear that the against ‑ing clause has an understood sub-
ject in (4), as in the other prepositional gerunds. It may be noted that the verb
warn readily accepts a direct object that could act as the controller of PRO in (4),
and a general NP such as people suggests itself in the case of (4):
	 (5)	 The Humane Society of New York wishes to warn people against trapping
dogs and cats.
However, because sentence (4) is well formed, we are dealing with an exception to
Bach’s Generalization, provided that the Generalization is understood to mean
that in object control constructions the controller of PRO needs to be overtly rep-
resented. The pattern of (4) with the covert controller of PRO is here termed the
covert object control construction. The purpose of the present article is to investi-
gate the occurrence and the nature of this type of construction with the help of the
Corpus of Historical American English, COHA, in American English in the last
	 Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
two centuries. At approximately 400 million words, the corpus is large enough and
well suited to serve as a source of data for this study. The study focuses on the verb
warn as the matrix verb. The verb is fairly frequent in English, which makes it pos-
sible to focus on a specific construction selected by it.
2.	 Covert object control with warn in COHA
The search string first considered for retrieving data in this study was “[warn].[v*]
against [v?g*].” However, this search string is less than satisfactory for the present
purpose because of the possibility of insertions. For instance, consider sentence (6):
	 (6)	 The author agrees, however, with Portis that “one can not warn too em-
phatically against making the psychotherapeutic approach a new panacea
for all patients. (1946, NF)
Insertions between warn and against are probably fairly rare, because of the comple-
ment status of the constituent beginning with the preposition, but they are not im-
possible, as is shown by (6), and in the interest of recall, provision should be made for
such insertions. Further, it is conceivable that there might be insertions between
against and the -ing clause; for instance, it would be conceivable to find a word such
as ever in that position. Therefore it seems necessary to adopt “[warn].[v*]” with the
word against within nine words to the right as the primary search string.1 On the
advice of an anonymous reader, a secondary search string of the form “warn* against
*ing” was used in order to guard against errors in tagging. These search strings are not
ideal from the point of view of precision, but are necessary for the sake of recall.2
The search string retrieves many irrelevant tokens. These are of different types.
The search string does not refer to an -ing clause, and some tokens were retrieved
where the constituent that follows the preposition is non-sentential, as in (7a–c):
	 (7)	 a.	 Flood tide analyzes the present-day tax situation, warns against rising
costs of government. (1938, MAG)
		 b.	 On the same day that Mr. Cole spoke, Senator Symington again warned
against thinking “which starts with a dollar ceiling...” (1953, NEWS)
		 c.	 It can work for a while, but Orser warns against it for the long term, ...
 (2009, MAG)
1.	 The searches for this study were conducted in May 2012. The limitation to nine words to the
right arises because this is the maximum context range permitted in COHA.
2.	 While almost all the relevant tokens were retrieved using the primary search string, the
secondary search string did uncover two additional tokens.
	 Null objects and sentential complements	 
The search string also retrieves numerous tokens where the constituent that fol-
lows the preposition is sentential, but where the construction involves overt object
control, as in (8a–c):
	 (8)	 a.	 I would warn her against paying exorbitant prices for books and ob-
jects of art. (1922, FIC)
		 b.	 I have told you this story, that you may be warned against indulging
the rancour of party feelings. (1835, FIC)
		 c.	 Bingley must be warned against showing any particular	 attention in
that direction. (2006, FIC)
(8b–c) illustrate sentences where the matrix clause of the verb warn is in the pas-
sive. In this type of structure the derived subject represents the direct object of the
corresponding active version, and acts as the controller of the lower subject, as
frequently happens in object control constructions. While overt object control
constructions are not the focus of this investigation, it is of interest to compare
their frequency with warn to the frequency of covert object control constructions,
and this consideration also supports the search string chosen.
Here are three initial examples of sentences that are relevant here. Sentence
(9a) is the earliest example of the construction in the corpus, (9b) is from the early
twentieth century, and (9c) is from current American English:
	 (9)	 a.	 ... I believe the cause of poverty will often be found to exist in the des-
titution of that economy, which warns against spending the little “all
for that which is not bread, and the labour for that which satisfieth
not.” (1829, FIC)
		 b.	 I mention them here only for the sake of completeness and in order to
warn against attaching undue importance to them so far as the Pueblos
... (1901, NF)
		 c.	 ... they warn against drawing quick conclusions based solely on the
number of ... (2000, MAG)
Examining the incidence of tokens systematically, the first conclusion to draw
concerns the distribution of the construction in the course of the last two centu-
ries. Table 1 gives information on the frequency of the construction in the decades
covered by the corpus, with the size referring to millions of words and with nor-
malized frequencies per million words given in parentheses.
Figure 1 below gives a linear representation of the progress of the overt and
covert tokens over the course of the last two centuries.
The data in Table 1 and Figure 1 show that in the first two decades of the cor-
pus, both the overt and covert control constructions with warn were very rare.
	 Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
Table 1.  The incidence of overt and covert object control in the decades of the corpus.
Decade Size Overt tokens Covert tokens
1810s   1.2 1 (0.8) 0
1820s   6.9 3 (0.4) 1 (0.1)
1830s 13.8 6 (0.4) 1 (0.1)
1840s 16.0 12 (0.8) 0
1850s 16.5 16 (1) 1 (0.1)
1860s 17.1 13 (0.8) 0
1870s 18.6 13 (0.7) 0
1880s 20.3 19 (0.9) 1 (0.0)
1890s 20.6 14 (0.7) 0
1900s 22.1 23 (1) 2 (0.1)
1910s 22.7 12 (0.5) 2 (0.1)
1920s 25.7 28 (1.1) 2 (0.1)
1930s 24.6 25 (1) 6 (0.2)
1940s 24.3 19 (0.8) 7 (0.3)
1950s 24.5 14 (0.6) 17 (0.7)
1960s 24.0 23 (1) 11 (0.5)
1970s 23.8 21 (0.9) 11 (0.5)
1980s 25.3 19 (0.8) 12 (0.5)
1990s 27.9 15 (0.5) 18 (0.6)
2000s 29.6 13 (0.4) 20 (0.7)
From the 1830s and particularly the 1840s onwards, the overt control construction
started becoming more frequent, with the frequency getting closer to one per mil-
lion in the 1840s. In later decades their frequencies are close to one per million for
many decades, but only rarely do they go over one. It is also observed that there is
considerable fluctuation in the frequency of the overt object control construction.
As far as the twentieth century is concerned, the frequency fluctuates noticeably
up until the 1960s, and after that the corpus data indicates a gradual decline.
As far as the covert object control construction is concerned, its frequency
remained extremely low for the entire nineteenth century. It is only from the 1930s
onwards that the frequency of the construction begins to rise in a noticeable fash-
ion. A peak of sorts occurs in the 1950s when the frequency reaches that of the
overt object control construction. In the next three decades it falls behind again,
but the construction does not fall into disuse. In the two most recent decades, its
frequency rises, with the most recent decade being noteworthy in that its frequen-
cy is clearly higher than that of the overt control construction. Overall, there is a
relatively constant increase of the covert object control construction during the
latter half of the twentieth century.
	 Null objects and sentential complements	 
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
1.1
1.2
1810s
1820s
1830s
1840s
1850s
1860s
1870s
1880s
1890s
1900s
1910s
1920s
1930s
1940s
1950s
1960s
1970s
1980s
1990s
2000s
Overt tokens Covert tokens
Figure 1.  Progress of the overt and covert tokens over the course of two centuries.
The increasing availability of covert object control with warn may be linked to a
general increase of ‑ing complements as reported in e.g. Fanego (1996), Duffley
(2000), Rudanko (2000, 2002) and Vosberg (2006, 2009), and to one aspect of what
has been called the Great Complement Shift. As Rohdenburg (2006: 144) has ob-
served, an important aspect of this process concerns the spread of ‑ing comple-
ments of various types in recent centuries, and the emergence of the covert object
control pattern with warn involving the preposition against with a following ‑ing
form suggests itself as one type of construction that fits well into the general trend
favoring the rise and spread of ‑ing complements in recent times.
Looking through the 20 tokens involving covert object control in the most
recent decade the investigator cannot help noticing that many of them – nine in all
– are from sociopolitical texts and discourses. Here are two illustrations:
	 (10)	 a.	 Former U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Wyche Fowler warns against
assuming that “monarchs can do anything they want without conse-
quences ... (2001, MAG)
		 b.	 In the speech, focused on Iraq, Mr. McCain will warn against making
policy on the war based on “the temporary favor of the latest ...
		 (2007, NEWS)
Example (10a) is from TIME magazine, and there are two other tokens from the
same magazine among the nine tokens from the sociopolitical field. As for tokens
	 Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
involving overt object control in this field in this decade, there are only three of
them, which suggests that the covert object control construction may be especially
popular in this type of language use.
Turning to the interpretation of constructions with covert controllers, it
is helpful to refer to the discussion of unexpressed objects in Huddleston & Pullum
(2002). One of their classes has the heading “Unexpressed human object,” and the
verb warn is listed in that class. They write:
We interpret the intransitives as having a human object, but it may be either gen-
eral (arbitrary people), as in That dog bites, or specific, e.g. you in particular, as in a
salient interpretation of Take care; it may bite. (Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 303)
They add that some verbs of the class, including please, as in He never fails to
please, “appear more readily in intransitives when the situation is habitual or un-
actualized” (Huddleston & Pullum 2002: 303). Warn is not listed with please in the
habitual or unactualized situations class.
The comments in Huddleston & Pullum thus provide three angles on the in-
terpretation of constructions with covert controllers. The first dimension concerns
the nature of the covert object, and whether it is general or specific, and the others
concern the broader interpretation of the construction, and whether the situation
described is habitual, which presumably entails some degree of regularity, or un-
actualized. It would seem reasonable to contrast these with situations that are one-
off, or actualized.
Of the conceptual divisions outlined on the basis of the comments in
Huddleston & Pullum (2002: 303), the actualized versus unactualized contrast and
the role it plays in the case of warn can be related to a distinction under the label
of mode, as outlined in Hopper & Thompson (1980: 252) in their discussion of
transitivity:
Mode: This refers to the distinction between the ‘realis’ and ‘irrealis’ encoding of
events. An action which either did not occur, or which is presented as occurring
in a non-real (contingent) world, is obviously less effective than one whose occur-
rence is actually asserted as corresponding directly with a real event.
The relevant sense of warn is ‘to give (a person) cautionary notice or advice with
regard to actions or conduct; to caution against neglect of duty or against wrong or
mistaken action or belief’ (OED, warn, v.1, sense 4.a; constructions with against
under 4.b), and it follows from this meaning that the content of the lower clause
has not been actualized. In the case of warn, it would appear that the often irrealis
nature of the events described in the lower clause can have a direct bearing on the
omissibility of the matrix object, taking into account that both features are charac-
teristic of reduced transitivity. From this perspective, the increase in the frequency
	 Null objects and sentential complements	 
of implicit objects with warn represents a type of detransitivization. (For discus-
sion of the notion of detransitivization and its manifestation in languages other
than English, see Hopper & Thompson 1980: 276.)
Turning now to the distinction between general and specific understood ob-
jects and that between habitual or one-off situations or actions, it should be
stated that the application of these notions to actual data is not always straight-
forward, and there are grey areas between prototypical examples, as in the in-
vented tokens in Huddleston & Pullum, and less clear cases. As regards the in-
terpretation of covert objects, Rizzi (1986) gives considerable prominence to
objects that are arbitrary or general. One of his examples is Yesterday John warned
(everyone) against this mistake. He analyzes the covert object version of this
sentence with the help of the label arb, defined as “a cover term for the feature
specification identifying the set of properties generally referred to as ‘arbitrary
interpretation’: [+human, +generic, +/–plural]” (Rizzi 1986: 509). With respect
to the present data, the number of tokens in the nineteenth century and the first
three decades of the twentieth is low, only eight. Caution needs to be exercised
in drawing conclusions about the nature of the covert object on the basis of a
small number of tokens, but it seems that in these early examples the covert ob-
ject tends to be interpreted in a general way. Here are three illustrations from
among the eight tokens:
	 (11)	 a.	 It [the Assembly of the Presbyterian Church] warns against “unduly
extending the plea of necessity,” – against making it a cover for the love
and practice of slavery. (1856, FIC)
		 b.	 While the sages warned against pampering the flesh, exalting the soul
and mind, and deeming the body merely a corrupt thing, at best ...
		 (1917, MAG)
		 c.	 The Health Department sent out 0,000 [sic] placards yesterday warn-
ing against spitting, to be displayed in cars, public buildings, and other
places where all may read. (1920, NEWS)
From the 1930s onwards, numbers of tokens of the covert control construction
begin to go up, and covert objects with more specific interpretations also begin
to show up and become more prominent.3 The interpretations are rarely as
3.	 The possibility of less general and more specific interpretations of covert objects in the co-
vert control construction with warn was also illustrated in Rudanko (2001). One of the illustra-
tions in that source is the following, from the Washington Post:
	
They thought that they, rather than reform-minded administrators, ought to be the judge of
what best inspired their students. Many critics warn against adhering too closely to any
formula. (Washington Post, April 3, 1994, cited in Rudanko 2001: 137–8)
	 Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
specific as in the Huddleston and Pullum example Take care; it may bite, where
the covert object was interpreted as you, but consider these sentences from the
1930s and 1940s:
	 (12)	 a.	 The Board was to create NRA policy in the broadest terms, but the
memorandum warned against ever permitting the Board to attempt
executive functions, which were to be left to some efficient adminis-
trator to replace myself. (1935, MAG)
		 b.	 Gen. R. E. Wood, president of Sears Roebuck & Co., another witness,
warned against drafting the bill in such a way as to centralize factories
in cities or to “freeze” existing current conditions. (1937, NEWS)
		 c.	 He pleaded with Congress to reject the bill, warned against quarrelling
“among ourselves in a vain effort to better or even hold our position at
the expense of the other fellow,” ... (1943, NEWS)
The clue to interpreting the covert object is naturally found in the nature of the
lower clause and its predicate. For instance, in (12a) the reference is restricted to
those privy to the memorandum, and those who exercise authority over the Board.
In (12b) the predicate draft the bill presumably restricts the reference of PRO and
of the covert object primarily to Congressmen. As far as (12c) is concerned, the
reflexive ourselves in the lower clause is worth noting. Since the reflexive needs to
be bound, it follows that PRO and the covert direct object are likewise interpreted
as referring to “us.” In a sense this is a very specific interpretation, since we are
dealing with one particular NP in the language, but at the same time it may be
added that in the example the pronoun in question for its part may well be inter-
preted in an inclusive way.
The low numbers of tokens up to the 1930s make it difficult to make definitive
statements about long-term trends, but the data that are available suggest that the
increasing frequency of the construction may have coincided with an increase in
more specific interpretations of covert objects. To gain a view of the current state
of affairs, the data from the 2000s were examined systematically. In these data both
interpretations are found. (13a–b) illustrate general interpretations, and (14a–b)
illustrate more specific interpretations:
	 (13)	 a	 What does the Bible mean when it warns against “sparing the rod”?
		 (2001, MAG)
		 b.	 Telephoto surveillance cameras peer down, armed police patrol the
border, bright yellow signs warn against taking any photographs or
making so much as a note or a simple sketch, under the penalties of
the Internal Security Act. (2001, NF)
	 Null objects and sentential complements	 
	 (14)	 a.	 DENNIS HASTERT, House Speaker, warning against rushing to pass
the President’s proposal to overall Social Security ... (2005, MAG)
		 b.	 Yes, he’d be the one to catch this cat. He’d kill it. He’d prove himself.
What had his brother said? He’d warned against pulling the snare too
early. If the cat was startled all would be lost. (2008, FIC)
In (13a) the covert object does not refer to a totally arbitrary set of people; instead,
the reference is presumably to parents, but this still seems nonspecific enough to
place the example in the general group. In (13b) the use of any with the plural in
the NP photographs suggests a general interpretation. By contrast, in (14a) the
reference is primarily to members of Congress, and in (14b) the reference appears
to be to one specific person, to the referent of the NP his, and seems about as spe-
cific as in the Take care; it may bite example from Huddleston and Pullum.
Going through the 20 tokens of covert object control from the 2000s, we as-
signed 12 to the general class and the remaining eight to the specific class. While
there are some borderline cases, it seems possible to say that both interpretations
of the covert object are frequently encountered today. Against the background of
the prominence assigned to general or arbitrary controllers in Rizzi’s (1986) ap-
proach, it is important also to recognize the existence of specific covert controllers
in current English.
Regarding the broader interpretation of the situation or action of the lower
clause as either one-off or habitual, more work may uncover regularities, but in
the light of the present data it is not easy to discover strong generalizations. It may
be that there is some tendency for specific covert objects in their contexts to go
with one-off situations, as in (14a–b). However, habitual interpretations are also
possible with specific covert objects, as in (12a), where the word ever is a clue to
this interpretation. General objects can also go with habitual interpretations, as in
(13a), but they may also go with one-off actions. Thus the warning in (11c) should
be understood as a warning not only against a habit of spitting but even against a
single act of spitting. The ‑ing form has sometimes been associated – in other
constructions in English grammar – with “regular activity” (Allerton 1988: 21), a
term which seems akin to the notion of habitual action or activity, but the present
data show that in the covert object control construction it also permits one-off
interpretations.
3.	 Concluding observations
Bach’s Generalization is an important condition making predictions about an as-
pect of the system of English predicate complementation, but it is not an absolute
	 Juhani Rudanko and Paul Rickman
rule, and the present study explores a class of potential counterexamples to it. The
construction considered is warn against ‑ing. A corpus-based study of the con-
struction is made possible by the availability of COHA. Both the size and the
structure of the corpus are important prerequisites for the present study. It is ob-
served that the construction was very rare in the nineteenth century, but that it
became considerably more frequent in the course of the twentieth century. The
increase in frequency is manifested both in the overall frequency of the construc-
tion, and in the proportion of the covert object control construction with warn in
relation to the overt object control construction with this verb. Thus it was ob-
served that in the last decade of the corpus, the totals of the covert construction
were higher than those of the overt construction.
The reasons for the increasing frequency of the covert object control construc-
tion deserve further investigation. On the basis of the data considered here, it may
be suggested that it is especially in political English that the construction is popu-
lar. Thus many of the more recent examples were from newspapers or magazines,
especially from TIME magazine, and the content of the examples often reveals
their origin in political English. The study also examined the interpretation of the
covert object, suggesting that there may have been a tendency for covert objects
with more specific interpretation to have become more prominent in the course of
time. However, very specific interpretations continue to be rare, and often there is
a degree of vagueness or indeterminacy in the interpretation of the covert object.
This very indeterminacy may have fostered the spread of the construction in po-
litical English, for it gives a speaker an opportunity of issuing a warning while
leaving the precise identity of the persons warned indeterminate. A reason for
this may have to do with mitigating the face-threatening nature of a warning
(cf. Wanner’s (2009) discussion of implicit by-phrases in passives). This kind of
indeterminacy may be especially attractive in political rhetoric, where a speaker
may also want to leave himself or herself some “wiggle room” or scope for deni-
ability in his or her statements.
In the light of the present study it will be of interest further to examine the role
of text type in violations of Bach’s Generalization. It will also be of interest to in-
vestigate whether other matrix verbs of object control may show changes in favor
of detransitivization similar to those observed with warn, and if so, whether the
interpretation of implicit objects in their case may be similar to what was observed
in this study. A further extension will be to compare violations of Bach’s General-
ization and the incidence of implicit objects in contexts with no following senten-
tial complement.
	 Null objects and sentential complements	 
References
Allerton, D. 1988. Infinitivitis in English. In Studies in Descriptive Linguistics (Essays on the Eng-
lish Language and Applied Linguistics on the Occasion of Gerhard Nickel’s 60th Birthday), J.
Klegraf, D. Nehls & G. Nickel (eds), 11–23. Heidelberg: Julius Groos.
Hopper, P. & Thompson, S. 1980. Transitivity in grammar and discourse. Language 56: 251–299.
DOI: 10.1353/lan.1980.0017
Huddleston, R. & Pullum, G. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. Cam-
bridge: CUP.
OED, Oxford English Dictionary (OED Online) <http://dictionary.oed.com/> (29 February 2012).
Rizzi, L. 1986. Null objects in Italian and the theory of pro. Linguistic Inquiry 17: 501–57.
Rohdenburg, G. 2006. The role of functional constraints in the evolution of the English comple-
mentation system. In Syntax, Style and Grammatical Norms, C. Dalton-Puffer, N. Ritt & H.
Schendl (eds), 143–166. Bern: Peter Lang.
Rudanko, J. 2001. Case Studies in Linguistic Pragmatics. Lanham MD: University Press of America.
Sag, I. & Pollard, C. 1991. An integrated theory of complement control. Language 67: 63–113.
DOI: 10.2307/415539
Wanner, A. 2009. Deconstructing the English Passive. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/
9783110199215
A new angle on infinitival and of -ing
complements of afraid, with evidence
from the TIME Corpus
Juhani Rudanko
University of Tampere
This article argues that an approach based on semantic roles offers a new
approach to the variation between to infinitival and of -ing complements of
the adjective afraid. While the semantic role of the higher subject does not
appear to vary, control theory makes it possible to investigate the semantic role
of the lower subject. No absolute rules can be given, but regularities that are
of statistical significance can be observed. The study draws on the first three
decades of the TIME Corpus for authentic data. The results shed light on the
semantic interpretation of to infinitival and -ing complements in subject control
constructions and open a new perspective on the relevance of semantic roles to
argument selection.
Keywords: to infinitival complements, -ing complements, subject control,
agentivity
1.	 Introduction1
Consider sentences (1a–b), both from the TIME Corpus (see Section 3):
	 (1)	 a.	 He is, indeed, a little afraid to venture outside of Gotham.
		 (TIME 1927)
		 b.	 They’re afraid of assuming the obligations, financial and spiritual, of
marriage. (TIME 1927)
1.	 The author is indebted to Ian Gurney, of the University of Tampere, for his comments on an
earlier version of this article, and to Terhi Uusi-Mäkelä, likewise of the University of Tampere,
for her help in finalizing the article. The anonymous referees deserve thanks for their comments.
All remaining shortcomings are the author’s responsibility.
	 Juhani Rudanko
The adjective afraid may select both a to infinitive complement, as in (1a), and
what may be termed an of -ing complement, as in (1b). It may be assumed in both
types that the complement that follows the adjective is sentential, with its own
subject. This assumption was made by major traditional grammarians, including
Jespersen (1961 [1940]), who writes:
Very often a gerund stands alone without any subject, but as in other nexuses
(nexus-substantives, infinitives, etc.) the connexion of a subject with the verbal
idea is always implied. (Jespersen 1961 [1940]: 140)
In more modern treatments the sentential status of the complement in (1a–b) is
also in general taken for granted. One reason is that the postulation of an under-
stood subject in the sentential complement makes it possible to represent the
argument structure of the lower verb in sentences of the type of (1a–b) in a
straightforward fashion. Further, it is clear that (1a) and (1b) are also similar in
that both are control constructions, or, more precisely, subject control construc-
tions. This follows immediately from the consideration that in both (1a) and
(1b) the matrix predicate assigns a semantic role to its subject. It may be added
that in both cases this subject has the Experiencer role, and that the relation of
orientation that Sag and Pollard (1991) propose for their want/expect type verbs2
seems relevant to the interpretation of the adjective and its complement in both
(1a) and (1b). To use current terms, the lower subject in each case may be repre-
sented by the symbol PRO.
Simplifying (1a–b) slightly, it is then possible to assign the structural represen-
tations (1a´) and (1b´) to the salient parts of the two sentences for the purpose of
analyzing their argument structures:
	 (1)	 a′.	 [[He]NP1 is [[afraid]Adj [[PRO]NP2 [to]Aux [[venture]Verb2 outside of
Gotham]VP]S2]AdjP]S1
		 b′.	 [[They]NP1 are [[afraid]Adj [[of]Prep [[[PRO]NP2 [[assuming]Verb2 the
obligations of	marriage]VP]S2]NP]PP]AdjP]S1
The sentences of (1a–b) are thus similar in many ways from a grammatical point
of view. Further, the sense of the adjective afraid does not appear to be very dif-
ferent in the two sentences. The two variant constructions are so near each other
2.	 Sag and Pollard write:
	
Similarly, the want/expect-type verbs all involve desire, expectation, or similar mental ori-
entation toward a given soa [state of affairs]. We will refer to these as ORIENTATION rela-
tions, and will characterize their associated roles as EXPERIENCER (the participant who
experiences the appropriate orientation) and soa-arg (here the soa towards which the expe-
riencer is oriented).” (Sag & Pollard 1991: 66)
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
from the point of view of their meaning that the alternation between them has
been of interest to grammarians and students of English. The present study has
the general aim of contributing to this discussion, in the spirit of Bolinger’s (1968:
127) generalization that a “difference in syntactic form always spells a difference
in meaning.” (For a recent treatment, see also Faulhaber 2011.) This article ap-
proaches the issue by first briefly reviewing, in Section 2, two treatments of the
alternation between the complements, those in the OED and in Wierzbicka
(1988). This review leads to the consideration of some authentic corpus data in
Section 3. The data are from the TIME Corpus. This corpus affords the investiga-
tor an excellent opportunity to follow the two constructions in one particular text
type over consecutive decades of twentieth-century American English. Com-
ments are provided on the frequencies of the two constructions, but the main
thrust of the study is to explore the possibility of a semantic difference between
the two patterns. The difference in question relates to the nature of the lower,
i.e. understood, subjects in the two types of construction. The difference in ques-
tion has to do with the perspective of semantic roles or theta roles3 in the inter-
pretation of such subjects.
2.	 Background on afraid in the OED and Wierzbicka (1988)
In the OED, comments on both the to infinitival and of -ing construction selected
by afraid are found under the major sense 1 of the adjective. That sense is defined
as ‘in a state of fear or apprehension, moved or actuated by fear’. The infinitive
construction is further given the subsense ‘in fear of the consequence (to oneself)
of; not having courage to’. Here are two illustrations of to infinitive complements
from the OED:
	 (2)	 a.	 Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike. (1735, Pope, Prol. to Sat.)
(OED, afraid)
		 b.	 Afraid to look upon the full purity of God. (1850, McCosh, Div. Govt.
1874) (OED, afraid)
Further information on sentential complements of afraid is provided under sub-
sense 2.c:
		 c.	 with depend. cl.: lest, with subjunctive, introduces a deprecated
contingency of which there is danger; that, with subjunctive, an un-
pleasant possibility; with indicative, an unpleasant probability or
3.	 Some scholars, including Carnie (2007: 207), make a distinction between thematic rela-
tions and theta roles, but this is set aside here.
	 Juhani Rudanko
contemplated reality. The conjunctions are sometimes omitted. I am
(or I’m) afraid: often used colloq. with little or no implication of fear or
danger, in the sense of ‘I regret to say; I regretfully or apologetically
admit, report, etc.; I suspect; I am inclined to think’. Const. that, or
simple clause. (OED, afraid)
Here are some illustrations from under subsense 2.c:
	 (3)	 a.	 He was afraid lest the poetical spirit should be swept away along with
the prophetical. (1847, G. H. Lewes, Hist. Phil.) (OED, afraid)
		 b.	 I did many a thing she did not like, I’m afraid—and now she’s gone!
(1853, Mrs. Gaskell, Cranford) (OED, afraid)
		 c.	 Mod. He is afraid that his dishonesty will be discovered. I am afraid
that it is too true; afraid that we are not in time. We were afraid lest we
should, or that we might hurt them. (OED, afraid)
Usages involving of and a following gerund are featured under subsense 2.d of the
adjective:
		 d.	 of with gerund is found in all these senses, but chiefly = lest with subj.,
of which it is a more modern equivalent.(OED, afraid)4
Illustrations of of -ing complements in the OED include those in (4a–c):
	 (4)	 a.	 I was affraid of trampling on every traveller that I met. (1727, Swift,
Gulliver) (OED, afraid)
		 b.	 He was afraid of being known as the author of the work. (1855,
Brewster, Newton) (OED, afraid)
		 c.	 Mod. I am afraid of bathing there = to bathe there. I was afraid of
treading on somebody’s toes = lest I should tread.(OED, afraid)
The comment in the OED that the construction involving of with the gerund, or
the of -ing construction, “is found in all these senses,” including the senses where
the to infinitive was featured, emphasizes the similarity in meaning between the
two constructions. In this respect example (4c), with the “=” between the two
constructions, is also worth noting in the OED treatment of the two types of
complement.
For her part, Wierzbicka compares and contrasts the sentences in (5a–b):
4.	 The second sense of the conjunction lest is defined as follows:
	 2. 
Used after verbs of fearing, or phrases indicating apprehension or danger, to introduce a
clause expressing the event that is feared; equivalent to the L. nē, and in Eng. often ad-
mitting of being replaced by that (without accompanying negative).
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
	 (5)	 a.	 She was afraid to wake her mistress up.
		 b.	 She was afraid of waking her mistress up.
Here is her comment:
In (a) [5.a], the maid thinks that she should wake her mistress up, and a tentative
intention to do so is formed in her head; and this tentative intention is accom-
panied by fear. In (b) [5.b], the idea of deliberately waking her mistress up never
enters the maid’s head. (Wierzbicka 1988: 33)
Wierzbicka further provides the following paraphrases for teasing the two sen-
tences apart:
She was afraid to wake her mistress up. →
when she thought this: I want this: I will do it
she felt afraid
She was afraid of waking her mistress up. →
when she thought this:
this might happen because of what I am doing
she felt afraid
In her account the infinitival variant is associated with a hypothetical intention,
the “thought about wanting” (Wierzbicka 1988: 33).
Wierzbicka’s comments have insightful aspects, including the idea of a “tenta-
tive intention” in the case of the to infinitive variant, which is missing in the case
of the of ing construction. However, the treatment of the two variants would have
benefited from being discussed in relation to a body of authentic corpus data. The
present study starts with a body of corpus data, and then attempts to come up with
a perspective for separating the two constructions.
3.	 The two non-finite complements in three decades of the TIME Corpus
The TIME Corpus is a recent corpus of American English, from 1923 to the pres-
ent day, consisting of the contents of TIME Magazine, excluding advertisements.
The corpus makes it possible not only to compare decades that are 30 years apart,
as in the case of the LOB and FLOB corpora, for instance, but to explore trends of
change and continuity from one decade to the next. For the present study the first
three decades of the corpus were investigated. In Rudanko (2011: 129–142) it was
observed that these decades were a time of considerable variation and change af-
fecting the non-finite complements of the adjective accustomed. In the case of ac-
customed the variation concerned to infinitives, as in accustomed to do something,
and to -ing complements, as in accustomed to doing something, and the preposition
	 Juhani Rudanko
preceding the gerund is therefore different from the preposition of the of -ing pat-
tern selected by afraid, but in both cases the constructions in question involve the
comparison of to infinitives and gerunds, and it is of interest here to examine afraid
during these three decades taking the earlier study into account.
One of the first tasks to be addressed in a corpus-based study of a grammatical
construction is the choice of the search string to be adopted. Attention needs to be
paid to recall and precision in this connection, with the requirements of recall be-
ing paramount. Given that in the case of the TIME Corpus it is possible to take
advantage of tags, the following search strings were adopted. For the of -ing pat-
tern the string was “afraid of [v?g*],” where the last symbol stands for the -ing form
of a verb, and for the infinitival pattern the string “afraid to” was used. These strings
appear adequate from the point of view of recall,5 and they are ideal from the point
of view of precision, for virtually all the tokens retrieved are relevant to the inves-
tigation. The only potential exception was the token in (6):
	 (6)	 The farmer himself is only afraid of suffering because of the act of God. He
has reduced his acreage but he can not control the seasons. (1937)
Suffering exists not only as the -ing form of the verb suffer but as a noun, with the
meaning ‘the bearing or undergoing of pain, distress, or tribulation’ (OED, sense
2). While a verbal interpretation is perhaps not impossible in (6), the OED sense of
the noun fits the usage of (6) well, and the token is interpreted as a noun. This deci-
sion was also taken in order to err on the side of caution in identifying gerunds.
The totals for the three decades are given in Table 1.
Table 1 shows that in each decade the to infinitive is considerably more fre-
quent with afraid than the of -ing pattern. However, it is also clear that reasonable
numbers of both types of complement are found during these decades. Here is an
initial illustration of each construction from each of the three decades:
5.	 A question relating to recall that might be raised concerns cases where there is an insertion
between the head of the construction and one of the following complements. A manual search
was carried out for such insertions, and four of them were found in the data, all of them involv-
ing the to infinitival pattern. Here are two illustrations:
	 (i)	 a.	 ... 
Red Army courts-martial, these made up of other officers afraid not to convict
lest they in turn be denounced, ... (1938)
		 b.	
We have done things I think which helped, but we have been	 afraid, all of us, to
really face the facts ... (1939)

The tokens are worth bearing in mind, but it is possible to exclude them from the discussion
here, taking into account firstly that they are very rare, and secondly and, more importantly, that
insertions constitute a complexity factor that independently favors to infinitives over -ing com-
plements, as has been noted in the literature (Vosberg 2003b: 210–2; cf. also Rohdenburg 1995:
378–9 and Vosberg 2006: 141).
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
Table 1.  Tokens of afraid with to infinitive and the of -ing complements in the 1920s,
1930s, and 1940s, with normalized frequencies in parentheses after the raw frequencies
and the size of the corpus in each decade indicated in millions of words.
Decade to infinitive of -ing size % of -ing
1920s   56 (7.4) 19 (2.5)   7.6 25%
1930s   84 (6.6) 19 (1.5) 12.7 19%
1940s 116 (7.5) 30 (1.9) 15.5 22%
	 (7)	 a.	 Fascismo is not afraid to declare itself illiberal or antiliberal. (1923)
		 b.	 Bachelors are selfish or they wouldn’t be bachelors. They’re afraid of
assuming the obligations, financial and spiritual, of marriage. (1927)
	 (8)	 a.	 He is not afraid to tackle economic problems for the benefit of the
masses! (1934)
		 b.	 ... when they grow up, they are still afraid, but more afraid of admit-
ting it. (1939)
	 (9)	 a.	 Apparently, the Laborites are afraid to test their voting strength by
ending the political truce ... (1943)
		 b.	 Was he not afraid of compromising U.S. sovereignty? (1943)
Corpus data are refreshing because of their authenticity, but they do not by them-
selves provide a breakthrough when the investigator seeks to tease the two construc-
tions apart. The main perspective to be developed here is semantic, but it may first be
noted that the Extraction Principle may play in complement selection when the
choice is between to infinitives and -ing complements. Pioneering work on the Ex-
traction Principle has been done by Günter Rohdenburg (2006) and Uwe Vosberg,
and here is the latter’s definition of the Principle from one of his (2003) publications:
Extraction Principle
In the case of infinitival or gerundial complement options, the infinitive will tend
to be favoured in environments where a complement of the subordinate clause is
extracted (by topicalization, relativization, comparativization, or interrogation etc.)
from its original position and crosses clause boundaries. (Vosberg 2003a: 308)6
6.	 Vosberg’s definition speaks of a “complement of the subordinate clause” being extracted,
but in other work, including Vosberg (2003c: 523), Rohdenburg (2006), and Rudanko (2006,
2011: 116) it has been noted that adjuncts may likewise be extracted. Whether the extraction of
complements and of adjuncts affects complement choice in exactly the same way or to the same
degree is an interesting question, but it is here left to future work. It is sufficient to note here that
overall both observe the Extraction Principle.
	 Juhani Rudanko
In sentential complements of afraid, extractions are quite rare. In the over 300 to-
kens from the three decades, only eleven sentences with extractions were found. In
one of them the complement is of the of -ing type, and in the remaining ten it is of
the to infinitival type. This is in accordance with the Extraction Principle. Here are
illustrations:
	 (10)	 He has mentioned to me a new scheme which ... he is afraid of mentioning
to you for fear of you laughing at him. (1948)
	 (11)	 ... the man the champions were afraid to fight. (1946)
Because the Extraction Principle has been established as an independent explana-
tory principle in the literature, it seems best here to exclude the eleven tokens ex-
hibiting extraction from further consideration.
Turningnowtothesemanticfactorrelatingtothelowersubject,thepresentstudy
explores the principle first hinted at in Rudanko (2006) and developed more properly
in Rudanko (2010a), (2010b), and (2011) for distinguishing to infinitival and -ing
clauses. The principle was originally developed from a comparison of to infinitives
and to -ing complements of the adjective accustomed in Rudanko (2006) and while it
hasbeenextendedtothestudyofsomeverbsinlaterwork,includingRudanko(2011),
it should be kept in mind that the variation with afraid investigated here concerns to
infinitives and of -ing complements, which has not been the focus in this work so far.
There is no absolute one-to-one mapping of the semantic distinction to a par-
ticular syntactic form, and to infinitive complements can be used here to introduce
the semantic distinction, as originally developed with the adjective accustomed.
Compare (12a–b), on the one hand, with (13a–b), on the other, with both sets of
data from the TIME Corpus (Rudanko 2011: 134):
	 (12)	 a.	 The whole American people is becoming accustomed to eat Italian
food. (1930)
		 b.	 King Albert, beloved by his French-speaking subjects, is accustomed
to ignore many a Flemish jeer. (1932)
	 (13)	 a.	 The eight directors were not men accustomed to be thus summarily
disposed of. (1930)
		 b.	 Last week artful John, a lawyer accustomed to receive the largest fees
charged in the Empire, made short work of ... (1932)
The semantic factor focuses on the interpretation of the lower subject, that is, of PRO
in the constructions under consideration, and the distinction is between what have
been termed [+Choice] and [‑Choice] interpretations of lower subjects and of the
predicates that assign the readings in question. These concepts are interpreted in re-
lation to semantic roles. A [+Choice] lower subject is linked to some degree of agen-
tivity with respect to the act, activity or state of affairs encoded by the lower predicate.
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
To unpack the notion of agentivity, it is helpful to recall Gruber’s (1967: 943) observa-
tion that an “Agentive verb is one whose subject refers to an animate object which is
thought of as the willful source or agent of the activity described in the sentence.”
Berman’s (1970: 205–6) work on controllability is also useful here. Taking more re-
cent work into account, the concepts of “volition, control, and responsibility” (Hundt
2004: 49) may be viewed as the key properties of agentivity, and Dowty’s concept of
“volitional involvement in the event or state” (Dowty 1991: 572) may also be recalled
as an important feature of an agentive subject. For example, predicates such as eat
Italian food and ignore many a Flemish jeer, as used in (12a–b), illustrate predicates
such that the notions of “volition, control, and responsibility” are relevant to their
interpretation. By contrast, these notions are less relevant to, or not relevant to, pred-
icates of the type of be disposed of and to receive the largest fees, as used in (13a–b).
It was also suggested in Rudanko (2011: 134) that the admissibility of impera-
tives is relevant to identifying agentive and [+Choice] subjects and their predi-
cates. Taylor characterizes imperatives in a way that is salient here:
Prototypically, an imperative instructs a person to do something, and is therefore
only acceptable if a person has a choice between carrying out the instruction or
not. (Taylor 2003, 31)
Thus, to hark back to (12a) and (13a), Eat Italian food is a more likely imperative
than Be disposed of.
Turning to the present data involving the adjective afraid, the following ex-
amples may illustrate [+Choice] subjects:
	 (14)	 a.	 ... as his book proves, he is not afraid to speak out when occasion de-
mands such a course, ... (1923)
		 b.	 He is not afraid to tackle economic problems for the benefit of the
masses! (1934)
	 (15)	 a.	 Bachelors are selfish or they wouldn’t be bachelors. They’re afraid of
assuming the obligations, financial and spiritual, of marriage. (1927)
		 b.	 ... many a continental who is afraid of keeping his money at home,
keeps it in Switzerland. (1932)
Predicates such as speak out, tackle economic problems, assume obligation, and keep
one’s money at home are agentive. The notions of “volition, control, and responsi-
bility” are salient to the interpretation of their subjects, and such predicates read-
ily admit imperatives.
By contrast, a [–Choice] subject lacks “volitional involvement in the event or
state” encoded by the lower predicate and in their case the nature of the lower
predicate entails a low degree of control over the event or state of affairs in ques-
tion. Here are some illustrations of [–Choice] predicates:
	 Juhani Rudanko
	 (16)	 a.	 “Make your final statement,” said the Judge. Replied the prisoner, in a
low, weak voice: “I am not afraid to die.” (1924)
		 b.	 Anorexia nervosa (hysterical lack of appetite) often occurs in unstable
women who are unconsciously afraid to grow up, ... (1939)
	 (17)	 a.	 ... the Administration may well be afraid of losing one or more of its
supporters. (1926)
		 b.	 Have you ever been afraid of going insane? (1928)
For instance, in (17a) the lower subject has the Benefactive role, and the predicate
does not encode “volitional involvement in the event or state” on the part of the
referent of the lower subject nor a degree of control.
Perhaps the most prototypical [–Choice] readings concern the interpretations
of subjects of passive lower clauses in cases where these subjects correspond to the
objects of the corresponding actives:
	 (18)	 a.	 When he heard it play he was afraid to be seen in public with it.
(1939)
		 b.	 Senator Pepper is one Congressman not afraid to be wired for sound.
(1944)
	 (19)	 a.	 Afraid of being buried while alive, she had completely recovered from
the blow that had stunned her. (1928)
		 b.	 Since in Mexico any form of strikebreaking is heinously unconstitu-
tional, no worker was afraid of being displaced. (1937)
In earlier work I have linked [+Choice] lower predicates to to infinitival comple-
ments and [–Choice] lower predicates to -ing complements, but the earlier studies
were concerned with contrasts between to infinitives and a different prepositional
pattern, the to -ing pattern, and the earlier results cannot be automatically trans-
ferred to the comparison of to infinitives and of -ing complements. Further, the
illustrations in (13a–b) and (15a–b) show that no categorical rule can be proposed
linking [+Choice] readings to to infinitival predicates and [–Choice] readings to of
-ing complements.
However, it turns out that a strong correlation does exist, linking to infinitives
to [+Choice] interpretations, as in the earlier studies, and then also linking
[–Choice] interpretations to -ing complements. The totals are given in Table 2 for
each of the three decades: 7
7.	 The sentences with extraction have been excluded from the figures in Table 2. They are in
fact all of the [+Choice] type, and as noted, ten of the eleven involve to infinitive complements.
If the eleven extractions had been included, they would have added to the predominance of the
[+Choice] lower predicates in the to infinitival columns in the 1930s and in the 1940s.
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
Table 2.  [+Choice] and [–Choice] interpretations of to infinitival and of -ing comple-
ments of afraid in the 1920s,1930s and 1940s.
decade to of -ing
[+Ch] [–Ch] [+Ch] [–Ch]
1920s   51 5   5 14
1930s   76 5   5 14
1940s 101 8 13 17
The figures for the 1920s and the 1930s are too low to apply the Chi-squared test
to those decades by themselves. (As regards the 1920s, the TIME Corpus only
starts from 1923 and the 1920s is not fully covered.) But if the two decades are
combined and the Chi-squared test is then applied, the results are seen to be sig-
nificant. For the combined data of the 1920s and 1930s the Chi-square is 73.27 and
the [+/–Choice] factor is significant at the p<0.0001 (df = 1) level, and for the data
of the 1940s the Chi-square is 35.53 and the factor is also significant at the p<0.0001
(df = 1) level.
It is perhaps possible to relate the [+/–Choice] factor to the meanings of the
constructions in question. It is hazardous to attempt a very specific definition of
the meaning of a to infinitival complement even in subject control constructions,
but it is possible to note that while the word to was placed under the Aux node in
the structural representation of (1a), the word goes back to the preposition to in
Old English. For its part the preposition to is associated with movement toward
something. Even if infinitival to is placed under the Aux node and even if the no-
tion of movement may not be as prominent a feature of its meaning as it is of the
preposition to, the historical associations of infinitival to are still present to some
extent, at least in the present subject control construction, and it is possible to
think of the infinitival complement as having the semantic role of Goal (see
Rudanko 1989, 35). For instance, in (14a) the predicate to speak out when occasion
demands such a course encodes a Goal. The notion of a Goal goes well with the
notion that a person has some degree of agentivity and control over the event or
state in question.
As regards the of of the of -ing pattern, the original sense of the preposition has
been characterized as follows:
The primary sense was away, away from, a sense now obsolete, except in so far as
it is retained under the spelling off. All the existing uses of of are derivative; many
so remote as to retain no trace of the original sense, and so weakened down as to
be in themselves the expression of the vaguest and most intangible of relations.
(OED, of)
	 Juhani Rudanko
While the sense of ‘away’, ‘away from’ is obsolete for the preposition, there is a trace
of it in the interpretation of the of -ing pattern selected by afraid (cf. also Fanego
1996: 57). That is, in this case the sentential complement has an element of the
semantic role of Source, more so than in the case of the to infinitival complement.
In the case of a Source, agentivity and control are less relevant than in the case of a
Goal.8 Hence the of -ing construction is natural with a predicate such as go insane,
as in (17b). If (17b) is turned into an affirmative and modified slightly, it may also
be observed that (20a) would seem more likely than (20b):
	 (20)	 a.	 He was afraid of going insane.
		 b.	 He was afraid to go insane.
It may be added that the Source-like nature of the lower clause also tends to go well
with the prominence given to the higher predicate in relation to the lower predi-
cate in the case of the of -ing construction. For instance, (20a) might be para-
phrased along the lines of ‘he was afraid of (the prospect of) going insane’. By
contrast, in the case of the to infinitive complement, there may be a tendency for
the lower clause to assume a higher degree of semantic prominence in relation to
what is grammatically still the higher predicate (see Allerton 1988: 15). Such a
tendency seems to surface especially when afraid is negated. For instance, con-
sider (21a–b):9
	 (21)	 a.	 ... I am not afraid to say what I believe. (1926)
		 b.	 Artful and artfully artless, it [the movie Citizen Kane] is not afraid to
say the same thing twice if twice-telling reveals a fourfold truth. (1941)
It may be noted that the subject of not afraid in (21b) refers to the movie Citizen
Kane, not to a human being, and the combination not afraid comes close in mean-
ing to ‘be prepared’. The semantic prominence of the lower clause in relation to the
higher predicate seems a consequence of the Goal-like nature of the lower clause.
In this connection it is also worth considering tokens where the lower clause
is in the passive, and the understood subject corresponds to the direct object of the
8.	 Where the of -ing construction is combined with a [+Choice] predicate, it seems, pending
further work, that the interpretation is often general or even generic, as in (ia–b):
	 (i)	 a.	
Bachelors are selfish or they wouldn’t be bachelors. They’re afraid of assuming the
obligations, financial and spiritual, of marriage. (1927)
		 b.	 ... 
many a continental who is afraid of keeping his money at home, keeps it in
Switzerland. (1932)
9.	 The discussion of negation is here limited to a comment on the semantics of not afraid fol-
lowed by a to infinitive. An anonymous reader points to the potential role of negation as a com-
plexity factor (cf. Rohdenburg 1995: 378–9) in this connection, but a study of this aspect with
afraid must be left to future work.
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
corresponding active. As noted above, in such constructions the lower subject and
the lower predicate are typically [–Choice], and to infinitives are rare in the present
data, whereas the of -ing pattern is much more frequent. However, two tokens of
the to infinitive are found. They are repeated in (23a–b). There are 14 of -ing con-
structions with passive lower verbs, and two examples are given in (24a–b):
	 (23)	 a.	 When he heard it play he was afraid to be seen in public with it.
(1939)
		 b.	 Senator Pepper is one Congressman not afraid to be wired for sound.
(1944)
	 (24)	 a.	 Afraid of being kidnapped, she bolted her door, locked her windows,
... (1936)
		 b.	 Wong said sheepishly: “I was afraid of being arrested for crashing a
light. (1938)
The to infinitives in (23a–b) are again Goal-like and they are relatively prominent
in relation to their higher predicates. Afraid is not negated in (23a), and the Goal-
like status of the lower clause suggests an imminent future event or eventuality. As
far as (23b) is concerned, afraid is negated, and a conceivable paraphrase for not
afraid in (23b) is ‘ready’ or ‘prepared’. The lower subjects and lower predicates in
these infinitival sentences in (23a–b) may be classed as nonagentive and [‑Choice],
but there may still be some trace of control or volitional involement in their inter-
pretation, in view of their Goal-like status. This also seems relevant to the interpre-
tation of sentence (20b), with go insane as the lower predicate, with the sentence
being unlikely because it is unlikely that a person would be volitionally involved in
going insane. To the extent that there is control present, the to infinitival construc-
tions encode it as being exercised by the subjects of the sentential complements of
afraid and by the subjects of afraid itself, the two subjects being coreferential. For
their part, the of -ing complements in (24a–b) are Source-like, and for instance
(24b) might be paraphrased ‘I was afraid of (the prospect of) being arrested for
crashing a light’. In the case of the lower predicates of (24a–b), it is hard to observe
even a trace of agentivity in their interpretation.
For a final comparison, we might modify sentence (9b) slightly and compare
the versions of (25a–b):
	 (25)	 a.	 With my policies I am not afraid to compromise our vital interests.
		 b.	 With my policies I am not afraid of compromising our interests.
It can be imagined that if (25a) were uttered by an American President or a British
Prime Minister, the opposition might well pounce on the statement, for it seems
close in meaning to ‘With my policies I am ready/prepared to compromise our vital
	 Juhani Rudanko
interests’. By contrast, (25b) would make a leader less vulnerable to attack. In it the
adjective is more independent of the following complement clause, and a paraphrase
such as ‘With my policies the possibility/danger of compromising our vital interest
does not make me afraid’ or ‘With my policies I am not afraid that we will compro-
mise our interests’, with again a Source-like interpretation of the lower clause.10
4.	 Concluding observations
It is well known that the adjective afraid commonly selects both to infinitival and
of -ing complements. The present study shows that both types of non-finite com-
plements are similar in many ways, for instance, in involving subject control. It
further documents the incidence of the two types in the first three decades of the
TIME Corpus. It is observed that while to infinitive complements are considerably
more frequent than of -ing complements in the three decades and while the ratios
of the two types fluctuate slightly during the period, it is the case that both types of
complement are found in reasonable numbers in each decade.
The study focuses on a semantic principle potentially influencing the use of
to infinitive and of -ing complements with afraid. These two types of non-finite
complement are so similar in meaning in the case of afraid that they are some-
times treated under the same sense in dictionaries. However, it is argued here
that an approach based on examining the nature of the lower predicate and the
lower subject is fruitful in providing a way to separate the two constructions. In
particular, the article takes up the distinction between [+Choice] and [–Choice]
predicates, first proposed in Rudanko (2010a, 2011), as a factor for distinguish-
ing to infinitival and to -ing complements of the adjective accustomed. Agentiv-
ity is viewed as the key to the interpretation of [+Choice] predicates, and this
notion is explicated with the notions of volition, control and responsibility, with
control exercised by the lower subject and by extension by the higher subject,
since they are coreferential. It is argued that the semantic distinction does have
explanatory power, in that to infinitives are linked to [+Choice] readings of low-
er predicates. For their part, of -ing complements are linked to [–Choice] lower
predicates. Some attention was also paid to the interpretation of “exceptions,”
where a to infinitival complement goes together with a predicate that is [–Choice].
It is suggested that the meaning of the construction has an effect on the interpre-
tation of such usages.
10.	 The author is indebted to Ian Gurney for helpful comments on (25a–b).
	 Infinitival and of -ing complements of afraid	 
References
Allerton, D. 1988. ‘Infinitivitis’ in English. In Essays on the English Language and Applied Lin-
guistics on the Occasion of Gerhard Nickel’s 60th Birthday, J. Klegraf, D. Nehls & G. Nickel
(eds), 11–23. Heidelberg: Julius Groos.
Berman, A. 1970. Agent, experiencer, and controllability. In Mathematical Linguistics and Auto-
matic Translation, S. Kuno (ed.), 203–237. Cambridge MA: Harvard University.
Bolinger, D. 1968. Entailment and the meaning of structures. Glossa 2: 119–127.
Carnie, A. 2007. Syntax. Malden MA: Blackwell.
Dowty, D. 1991. Thematic proto-roles and argument selection. Language 67: 547–619. DOI:
10.1353/lan.1991.0021
Fanego, T. 1996. The development of gerunds as objects of subject-control verbs in English
(1400–1760). Diachronica 13: 29–62. DOI: 10.1075/dia.13.1.03fan
Faulhaber, S. 2011. Verb Valency Patterns. A Challenge for Semantics-Based Accounts. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110240788
Gruber, J. 1967. Look and see. Language 43: 937–947. DOI: 10.2307/411974
Hundt, M. 2004. Animacy, agentivity, and the spread of the progressive in Modern English.
English Language and Linguistics 8: 47–69. DOI: 10.1017/S1360674304001248
Jespersen, O. 1940[1961]. A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles, Part V: Syntax,
Vol. IV. London & Copenhagen: George Allen and Unwin & Ejnar Munksgaard.
OED, The Oxford English Dictionary. 1989. Prepared by J. Simpson and E. Weiner, 2nd edn.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Rohdenburg, G. 1995. On the replacement of finite complement clauses by infinitives in English.
English Studies 76: 367–388. DOI: 10.1080/00138389508598980
Rohdenburg, G. 2006. The role of functional constraints in the evolution of the English comple-
mentation system. In Syntax, Style and Grammatical Norms: English from 1500–2000, C.
Dalton-Puffer, D. Kastovsky, N. Ritt & H. Schendle (eds), 143–166. Bern: Peter Lang.
Rudanko, J. 1989. Complementation and Case Grammar. Albany NY: SUNY Press.
Rudanko, J. 2006. Watching English Grammar change. English Language and Linguistics 10:
31–48. DOI: 10.1017/S1360674306001791
Rudanko, J. 2010a. Explaining grammatical variation and change: A case study of complementa-
tion in American English over three decades. Journal of English Linguistics 38: 4–24. DOI:
10.1177/0075424209335495
Rudanko, J. 2010b. Change and variation in complement selection: A case study from recent
English, with evidence from large corpora. In Corpus-Linguistic Applications: Current Stud-
ies, New Directions, S. Wulff, S. Gries & M. Davies (eds), 47–66. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Rudanko, J. 2011. Changes in Complementation in British and American English. Houndmills:
Palgrave. DOI: 10.1057/9780230305199
Sag, I. & Pollard, C. 1991. An integrated theory of complement control. Language 67: 63–113.
DOI: 10.2307/415539
Taylor, J. 2003. Meaning and context. In Motivation in Language. Studies in Honour of Günter
Radden, H. Cuyckens, T. Berg, R. Dirven & K. Panther (eds), 27–48. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/cilt.243.06tay
Vosberg, U. 2003a. The role of extractions and horror aequi in the evolution of -ing complements
in Modern English. In Determinants of Grammatical Variation in English, G. Rohdenburg
& B. Mondorf (eds), 305–327. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
	 Juhani Rudanko
Vosberg, U. 2003b. Cognitive complexity and the establishment of -ing constructions with retro-
spective verbs in Modern English. In Insights into Late Modern English, M. Dossena & C.
Jones (eds), 197–220. Bern: Peter Lang.
Vosberg, U. 2003c. Zur Ablösung von Infinitiven durch -ing-Formen als Verbkomplemente im
modernen Englischen. In Mehrsprachigkeit – Sprachkompetenz – Translation, L. Zybatow
(ed.), 515–525. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Vosberg, U. 2006. Die Grosse Komplementverschiebing. Tübingen: Narr.
Wierzbicka. A. 1988. The Semantics of Grammar [Studies in Language Companion Series 18].
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.18
Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity
and non-canonical subject with ready
Mikko Höglund
University of Tampere
This paper presents a case study of the adjective ready and discusses its
properties when it occurs in the tough construction (TC). The paper discusses
the active and passive infinitive variation in the TC with evidence from the
Corpus of Late Modern English Texts and the British National Corpus. The
ambiguity created by the active infinitive and the effect of the semantics of the
subject on the choice of the infinitive form are also discussed. The results show
that the TC has become more frequent in BrE, and unlike with typical tough
predicates, with ready the passive infinitive has persisted, most likely because of
the risk of ambiguity with the active. The data also show that when the subject is
[+HUMAN], the passive infinitive is used exclusively.
Keywords: tough construction, passive infinitive, human subject.
1	 Introduction1
There are two syntactically similar configurations when it comes to clauses in
which the main predicate is adjectival and complemented by a to infinitive clause:
one in which the subject is coreferent with the understood subject of the to infini-
tive2 and another in which the subject is coreferent with the understood object of
the to infinitive.
1.	 I would like to thank the two anonymous referees for their most helpful comments. In addi-
tion, I would like to thank the following people of the University of Tampere: Ian Gurney for
providing insightful assistance with the corpus examples, and Paul Rickman for proofreading the
manuscript. The remaining errors are solely mine.
2.	 To be precise, there are two different types of these: control and raising constructions:
	 (i)	 Mary is eager to please. (control)
	 (ii)	 Mary is likely to please. (raising)

The difference is that raising predicates, like likely, do not take an external argument (e.g. Postal
1974; Carnie 2002). However, this matter is of no importance here.
	 Mikko Höglund
	 (1)	 a.	 Mary is eager to please. (control construction)
		 b.	 Mary is easy to please. (tough construction; TC)
As can be observed, (1a) and (1b) are syntactically similar but differ semantically.
In (1a) Mary is the one doing the pleasing, but in (1b) Mary is the notional object
of pleasing, not the one doing the pleasing.
The ranges of different adjectives that can occur in these two constructions are
usually quite restricted. Control adjectives cannot occur in a tough construction and
tough construction adjectives cannot occur in a control construction. The non-­
occurrence of the same adjective in control and tough constructions is intuitively
understandable because of the same syntactic form these two constructions have,
and it is precisely the semantic difference conveyed by the individual adjectives that
determines the interpretation of the construction as either control or TC (Langack-
er 1999: 330ff.). However, there are a few adjectives like fit, free and ready which are
able to occur in both constructions (Quirk et al. 1985: 1228).
This paper presents a case study of the adjective ready, which is found in both
constructions. Ready can occur in a control construction as well as in a TC:
	 (2)	 a.	 [The chicken]agt is ready to eat. (control)
		 b.	 [The chicken]pat is ready to eat. (TC)
As demonstrated above, because the syntactic form of the two constructions is the
same, it is an anomaly that a certain lexical item can occur with both senses, even
though it should be precisely the particular lexeme’s job to define which construc-
tion is in question to ensure the right interpretation. Perhaps because of this
ambiguous situation, there also exists another construction, which is called here
TCpass, the passive variant. It is very close in meaning to the TC, if not synony-
mous, and because of the passive form of the to infinitive, it makes the Patient role
of the subject explicit, thus avoiding ambiguity:
	 (3)	 The chicken is ready to be eaten. (TCpass)
The constructions in (2) and (3) and their behavior is the main subject matter of
this paper, with the focus on the non-canonical Patient subject constructions (2b)
and (3). The aim is to find out how they interact, how and when they are used, and
why the TCpass and TC are both still in use despite their synonymy. This is done
firstly by looking at what the literature says about the active and passive variation
in the infinitive and the ambiguity related to the construction in question and in
general, and secondly, by using corpus material to uncover the actual usage during
the past three centuries.
In Section 2, a brief overview of the previous treatment of the topic is provid-
ed, and the materials and methods are introduced in Section 3. In Section 4 the
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
findings in the data are presented, and Section 5 provides the discussion and anal-
ysis. Section 6 sums up the main points of the study and concludes the paper.
2.	 Background
The basis for regarding the ready to pattern as a construction comes from the no-
tion that there are certain adjectives that are not independent, i.e. they need a
complement (overt or covert) to complete the intended conceptualization (see e.g.
Poutsma 1914: 359; Quirk et al. 1985: 420ff.; Biber et al. 1999: 515f.). The comple-
ment can be prepositional like ready for the race or a non-finite clause like the to
infinitive in ready to eat. The Adj-to-V sequence, construction by and in itself, is
the core of the tough construction which is roughly of the form NP-cop-Adj-to-V.
The term for the construction of this type, Mary is easy to please, was originally
‘tough movement’, coined by Postal (1971), which reflects the transformation that
was assumed to derive the TC from an extraposed construction (e.g. It is easy to
please Mary). Nowadays the customary, framework-neutral term is ‘tough con-
struction’, or TC for short, and it is therefore the label I adopt in this paper.
In generative frameworks, the tough construction has been the object of many
a study. These studies used invented example sentences and the main focus was on
deciphering the peculiar structure of the TC in terms of transformations (e.g.
Rosenbaum 1967; Postal 1971, 1974; Jackendoff 1975; Nanni 1980; Hietaranta
1983). In these studies the authors almost invariably used the same type of simple
examples like the hackneyed John is easy to please with the to infinitive, then ex-
panded in different ways to see from how far the object could be raised to the
subject position by the tough movement transformation (e.g. ?Mary is difficult for
Jack to get disgusted with. (Postal 1971: 28)). These kind of complex examples are
not part of the usage of the TC as observed in corpora, and they are purely hypo-
thetical. The present study takes a non-derivative, non-transformational and
usage-based approach to the TC, and the aim is to see how the construction is
actually used instead of how it might be used in theory.
There are only a handful of studies of the TC outside the generative-transfor-
mational framework (e.g. Mair 1987 (corpus study); Langacker 1999 (Cognitive
Grammar); Chung 2001 (Construction Grammar)), and these, as the previous
generative studies, focus on the tough construction itself and on the adjectives that
occur only in the TC and not in the control construction. Langacker (1999: 352f.)
briefly discusses the matter of why possible cannot occur in the TC while impossi-
ble is perfectly fine, but apart from that discussion, the authors who have dealt
with the TC have strictly kept to the construction at issue. In addition, since in the
transformational theory the extraposed construction was a prerequisite for tough
	 Mikko Höglund
movement, it was not possible for a predicate that did not occur in an extraposed
construction to be a tough predicate. However, if we look at ready, we can see that
even if it is not permitted in an extraposed construction, it quite happily adopts
the TC:
	 (4)	 a.	 *[It]dummy is ready to use the software.
		 b.	 The software is ready to use.
In light of this information, it does not make sense to deny ready the status of
tough predicate only because it cannot occur in the extraposed construction. As
previously mentioned, the approach in this paper is non-derivative, and no trans-
formational operations of any kind are postulated. The TC is seen in terms of Con-
struction Grammar (Fillmore & Kay 1995; Goldberg 1995, 2006); independent of
the syntax of other possible neighboring constructions along the lines of the Prin-
ciple of Maximized Motivation:
If construction A is related to construction B syntactically, then the system of
construction A is motivated to the degree that it is related to construction B se-
mantically. (Goldberg 1995: 67)
The basic unit from which grammar is viewed and categorization is initiated in is
the construction, not the individual lexemes. Thus, any other kind of construction
than the TC in which a certain predicate, like ready, may or may not occur is of no
concern here. Of course the subcategorization of ready differs from other proto-
typical tough adjectives because it cannot occur in an extraposed construction like
prototypical tough predicates, but it does not overrule or have any implications on
the fact that ready, just like easy, hard and other prototypical tough adjectives, can
occur in a tough construction.
The variation between the active and passive infinitive with the TC and TC-
pass is not limited to the adjective ready or to the tough construction, but is a
broader phenomenon manifested in many other environments as well. The curios-
ity of the relationship of these two constructions is that the active can express both
active and passive meanings ((5a) and (5b) respectively) and the passive form can
only have the normal passive interpretation (5c).
	 (5)	 a.	 I have no husband to irritate me
		 b.	 and no children to bring up. (Jespersen 1940: 228)
		 c.	 There was no time to be lost. (Jespersen 1940: 219)
When the passive meaning is meant to be conveyed, there are thus two options:
the active and passive infinitive. Sometimes they are interchangeable without a
change in meaning, sometimes the meaning changes, and then there are cases in
which only one or the other is possible. Jespersen (1940: 221) states that the usage
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
of the passive infinitive stems from the possibility to form it easily in English and
that in some contexts it is more logical to the speaker than the active. Nevertheless
he states that “full consistency has not been achieved.”
The infinitive in Old English started as a noun, and gradually acquired verbal
qualities like voice. According to Sweet (1898: §2313), the active to infinitive in
OE, when it was used with a modal meaning expressing epistemic necessity as in
þā þing þe tō dōnne sind ‘the things which are to be done’, was ambiguous in mean-
ing; tō dōnne could have either active ‘to do’ or passive ‘to be done’ meaning. Curme
(1931: 46f.) argues that the passive meaning was the usual interpretation. More-
over he states that at the same time the passive infinitive form was used in other
contexts to convey the passive meaning (perhaps then also in the TC). In the 14th
century the passive infinitive began to be used in this modal sense as well, elimi-
nating possible ambiguities (Curme 1931: 46f).
Interestingly, Sweet (1898) mentions that (in the late 19th century when he
was writing) the passive sense was only acceptable in the phrase a house to let but
with other verbs the formal passive had to be used, as in a house to be sold. Curme
(1931: 46) also talks about “a few survivals of older usage with active form and
passive meaning”, mentioning the same phrase as Sweet above and also adding He
is to blame for it to the allowed phrases. In contemporary English of course the
phrase a house to sell is perfectly grammatical and also most of the other transitive
verbs can occur in the active infinitive with the passive sense. In light of this infor-
mation, it seems that the contemporary use of the active infinitive in this modal
context resembles the OE usage: the active infinitive is used with a passive mean-
ing. The passive form began to be used in the 14th century, and it apparently gained
a strong status until the active form took over sometime during the 20th century
leaving the passive form of the infinitive marginal. Jespersen (1940: 271) states that
the active infinitive was at his time already the usual option, and the passive was
much more common from the 15th to 18th century.
In the older grammars referred to here, not much discussion is devoted to
the history of the active/passive distinction in the tough construction. Curme
(1931: 478) gives several examples of tough adjectives complemented by to in-
finitives, and most of them are in the active, i.e. TCs. There are three instances of
the TCpass in his examples: hard to bear (or to be borne), ready to be shaved and
worthy to be thus honored. In the first one, the passive option is given perhaps
because bear is not a very common verb and thus explicit use of the passive is
justified. In the second, the adjective ready prompts the passive infinitive as dis-
cussed in this paper, and in the last, it might be that the intervening thus triggers
the explicit passive (Complexity Principle, Rohdenburg 1996). Jespersen (1940:
272) mentions the sentence He is easy to deceive and notes that he is also the
notional object of deceive and thus the passive form is also possible: He is easy to
	 Mikko Höglund
be deceived. However, nothing is stated about the relationship of the active and
passive in this context. Visser (1966: 988ff.) explicitly discusses the infinitive
complementing adjectives. According to him, the TC was used as early as in OE
and the passive variant was very marginal at that time, and possibly only re-
stricted to one adjective wurþe. However, after the Norman conquest in 1066 the
passive began to spread and is observed fairly frequently in Present Day English
(Visser 1966: 990ff.).
The Oxford English Dictionary was consulted in order to determine the senses
in which both the Agent and Patient subject interpretations are possible. While
most of the examples of the pattern ready to in the OED senses of ready are of the
control type with an Agent subject, there are, in three sense descriptions, also ex-
amples of the passive TC:
I.	 Having or exhibiting (inherent) alacrity, willingness, or inclination.
1.	 With infinitive.
†b.	 fig. Of a thing: likely or liable to do something. Obs.
	 (6)	 1719 G. London & H. Wise tr. J. de la Quintinie Compl. Gard’ner 283
Green Peas are ready to satisfie the longing Appetite of the likerish Palate.
	 (7)	 1817 J. Mill Hist. Brit. India II. v. viii. 635 At a moment [...] when every
thing was ready to be reported, and every thing to be believed.
c.	 Inclined, disposed, or apt to do something.
	 (8)	 1968 It 1–14 Nov. 16/1 The Turks seem to be ready to turn with a malicious
vengeance on young Europeans for the least (often no) provocation.
	 (9)	 1992 Independent 27 Nov. 23/5 So many people in Britain were ready to be
impressed by shrill triumphalism and half-baked dogma..because of the
years of failure and frustration.
II.	 That has prepared; in a state of preparedness.
	 6. 	 a.	 With infinitive. Prepared or having made all preparations to (also †for
to) do something. Also fig.
	 (10)	 1662 E. Stillingfleet Origines Sacræ iii. ii. §18 There are some more
subtile particles of matter, which are ready to fill up those void spaces.
	 (11)	 1791 W. Cowper Retirem. 20 Apparelled in exactest sort, And ready to be
borne to court.
There are examples of passive TCs in these three sense descriptions that feature the
ready to pattern. However, sense III. 8. a. is the only one that features the “normal”
active TC, the first example dating back to the 15th century:
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
III.	That has been prepared; characterized by preparedness, convenience, or ease.
	 8.	 In the condition of having been prepared or put in order for a particular
purpose.
		 a.	 In predicative use. Freq. with for or with infinitive (freq. with passive
sense).
	 (12)	 a1500 (1450) Merlin (1899) 362 A cheyer, that euer more sholde be redy
[Fr. aparellie] for the knyght in to sitte.
This sense, which implies the Patient subject interpretation, is curiously contrasted
with the seemingly agentive counterpart (II. 6. a. above). Even though these two
senses are separated, the difference seems to lie more in the syntax and by exten-
sion in the semantics of the respective constructions than in the meaning of ready
as an individual lexeme. In both senses above (II. 6. a. and III. 8. a.), ready is re-
lated to preparedness, with the only difference being that in II. the agentive entity
is the focus, wheras in III. the focus is on the Patient entity. Furthermore, what is
odd is the fact that in sense II. 6. a., which is supposedly meant to describe the
agentive sense of the ready to pattern, there is the one passive example (11). In this
case the example sentence would reflect more sense III. 8. a. than II. 6. a. because
of the passive form of the infinitive and the Patient interpretation of the subject.
In their Grammar Patterns, Francis et al. (1998) list ready in the pattern “ADJ
to-inf”, which is the relevant pattern in this study, and ready appears in four differ-
ent meaning groups in that pattern: the ‘adequate’, ‘willing’, ‘certain’ and ‘able’
groups. In the latter three, ready is used in control constructions, and different
senses of ready in the Collins Cobuild English Dictionary (CCED) are referred to.
The sense in the ‘willing’ group has to do with willingness, in the ‘certain’ group
the sense is “about to do it or likely to do it,” and in the ‘able’ group, where there are
references to two senses in the CCED, they concern preparedness and having suf-
ficient experience/age/sense.
Alongside ready in the ‘adequate’ group, in which ready is used in the tough
construction, there are adjectives like adequate, fit, sufficient and their negative
counterparts. The definition of the group is that “[t]hese adjectives indicate that
something can be done with or to the thing you are talking about” (Francis et al.
1998: 406), which denotes the Instrument and Patient roles, the possible roles of
the subject in the TC:
	 (13)	 a.	 [This pen]instr is ready to write with.
		 b.	 [The pan]pat is ready to use.
In this group there is no reference to a specific sense of ready in the CCED as there
is in the other three meaning groups with control uses of ready. However, only the
sense which incorporates preparedness fits the passive meaning of ready. In fact,
	 Mikko Höglund
in CCED sense 1 the passive meaning is explicitly stated: “If something is ready, it
has been properly prepared and is now able to be used.” There is also an example
of this use:
	 (14)	 In a few days time the sprouts will be ready to eat. (CCED)
The infinitive clause can also be left out if the activity is clear in the context,3 but
the sentence is no longer categorized as a TC on a strictly structural basis:
	 (15)	 a.	 Tomorrow he would tell his pilot to get the aircraft ready. (CCED)
		 b.	 It’s eight-fifteen, dear, and your breakfast’s ready. (CCED)
The OED and the CCED both have the Patient subject construction in their sense
definitions of ready that promote preparedness. A change of state has occurred in
such a way that the subject which was not previously in a fit state to perform a
certain activity is now in that state i.e. prepared to do it. Or, if the passive meaning
is described, the subject was not previously in a fit state to have the activity done to
it or with it, but now it is in that state i.e. it has been prepared for something to be
done to or with it. The OED presents two other senses, likeliness and inclination,
which are both marginal and the former nowadays obsolete. The other senses of
ready, ‘willingness’ for instance, are such in nature that they require volition and
an active entity as the subject, i.e. an Agent, and thus the TC and TCpass are not
possible in these senses.
3.	 Materials and method
In order to shed more light on the development and use of the ready to pattern,
two different corpora are employed to investigate the phenomenon. The Corpus
of Late Modern English Texts Extended Version provides British English data
from 1710–1920, and to counterbalance those diachronic data the British
National Corpus provides contemporary material. The database of the Oxford
English Dictionary online edition (OED) is also used to gather additional mate-
rial. The aim is to study the development of ready with the to infinitive using the
corpora and the OED, and gain insight on how the pattern has been used in the
past and is used now regarding the two different semantic and syntactic patterns
discussed above. The focus is on the development of the Patient subject pattern
and its evolution.
3.	 For more about omitting the infinitive, see e.g. Langacker (1999: 340f.); Chung (2001:
192f.)
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
The CLMETEV mostly comprises British English literary texts. There was no
particular theoretical or methodological reason to choose this particular corpus
for this research, but its strengths are obvious. The adjective ready with the to in-
finitive is not very frequent, so a fairly large corpus was needed. From this time
period, CLMETEV was the best choice covering as many as 210 years and consist-
ing of some 15 million words. As always when dealing with corpora, the limita-
tions of the corpus under investigation must be borne in mind. The texts in the
CLMETEV are mostly written by educated upper-class males and are fictional (De
Smet 2005, 2012), which of course limits the scope and force of generalizations
made about the results of the study. In order to retain approximately the same
genre for the contemporary language data, the “imaginative prose” segment of the
BNC is utilized for the study, this part of the BNC being the best equivalent for the
text types in the CLMETEV (De Smet, p.c.). The “imaginative prose” segment
from 1985–1993, comprising 14 million words, is also an appropriate size for the
present study having approximately the same number of words as the CLMETEV.
Also, the written fiction genre seems to be an appropriate register to investigate
this phenomenon since, according to Biber et al. (1999: 723), it does not have the
highest (news) or lowest (conversation) frequency of instances of post-adjective to
infinitives but stands somewhere in between these two registers.
In addition to the language data from the two corpora, the vast quotation da-
tabase of the OED is utilized to gather information on the use of ready with the to
infinitive. The OED database is not a structured corpus and it is not proportioned
regarding different time periods. Despite the OED not being a structured corpus,
a quantitative analysis of the OED data is presented in Section 4, which should be
taken with a pinch of salt. The qualitative analysis in Section 5.2 however shows
that the OED data provides valuable additional material for the present study. Pri-
marily, the data from the OED is collected to be used as an additional asset in
order to see what there is and whether the findings are even close to those in the
CLMETEV and BNC. The CLMETEV is divided into three 70-year periods (1710–
1780, 1780–1850, 1850–1920), and based on this and to make the analysis easier
and more structured, the results from the OED are also divided accordingly: pre-
1710, 1710–1780, 1780–1850, 1850–1920 and 1920-.
All corpora were searched using the simple query “ready to” which produced
all the different patterns: control, TC and TCpass. The TC also allows an interven-
ing element between the adjective and the to infinitive. Most commonly this ele-
ment is a for-phrase which can make the Agent argument explicit, as in The oven
is ready for Mike to use. The material was also searched using the string “ready for”
to identify such cases and get the best possible recall. The number of the TCs with
the for-phrase is included in the overall number of the TC tokens.
	 Mikko Höglund
4.	 Findings
CLMETEV1 (1710–1780). The search for the pattern ready to in the first part of the
CLMETEV yielded 216 hits (71 pmw). Closer inspection showed that out of all the
instances most were of the control type, which is no surprise since it is the as-
sumed standard variant. Of the other types, four cases of the TCpass were found
and three cases of the TC, and these were all found in the texts of four authors.
Interestingly, there were two authors who used both the TC and TCpass construc-
tions. Sterne was recorded to have one case of each construction, and Bradley two
cases of the TC and one Tcpass.
CLMETEV2 (1780–1850). In the second part of the CLMETEV there were 459 hits
of ready to (80 pmw) which is proportionally slightly more than in the first part.
Again, most of the cases were of the control type. Twelve instances of the TCpass
were found and seven instances of the TC. Here three noteworthy matters stood
out: First, there was one author who used both TC variants (Gaskell, 2 TCpass and
2 TC). Second, there was one author who exclusively used the TC (Burns, 2 TC),
and third, Dickens was recorded using the passive three times, and the TC once.
All in all, twelve authors used one or the other TC variant.
CLMETEV3 (1850–1920). The third part of the CLMETEV yielded 480 instances
of ready to (78 pmw) and the control type was again dominant. Eighteen instances
of the passive variant were detected and thirteen tokens of the TC. Here we have
four authors who exclusively use the TC and nine authors who only use the passive
variant. Three authors were observed to use both variants.
BNC (1985–1993). The material from the BNC was taken from the “imaginative
prose” segment which comprises non-fiction texts from 1985–1993. Genre-wise
this subcorpus should be at least roughly equivalent to the data in the CLMETEV.
The BNC material returned 905 results of the ready to pattern (64 pmw), of which
the control type was the most prevalent. There were 38 instances of the TCpass
and 30 instances of the TC. In seven instances the same author had used both
variants.
The findings in the two corpora, the CLMETEV and BNC, are displayed in Table 1.
Raw numbers show clearly how much more frequent the control type is with
ready. Compared to the control usage of ready, the TC and TCpass are fairly mar-
ginal. Table 2, showing the normed frequencies per million words, sheds more
light on the relations between the different (sub)corpora.
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
Table 1.  Raw numbers in the CLMETEV and BNC.
ready to TCpass TC
CLMETEV 1710–1780   216   4   3
1780–1850   462 12   7
1850–1920   484 18 13
BNC 1985–1993   915 38 31
Total 2077 72 54
Table 2.  Normed frequencies per million words.
ready to TCpass TC
CLMETEV 1710–1780 71 1.3 1.0
1780–1850 80 2.1 1.2
1850–1920 78 2.9 2.1
BNC 1985–1993 65 2.7 2.2
Table 3.  Percentage of the TC and TCpass of all ready to cases.
TCpass TC Total
CLMETEV 1710–1780 1.9% 1.4% 3.3%
1780–1850 2.6% 1.5% 4.1%
1850–1920 3.7% 2.7% 6.4%
BNC 1985–1993 4.2% 3.4% 7.5%
As can be seen in Table 2, the frequency of the ready to pattern has remained more
or less stable through all the periods under investigation, keeping the portion at a
steady 65–80 instances per million words. The passive variant has gained a little
more popularity throughout the entire period. The TC has also gained more
ground but is not yet as frequent as the passive variant. In order to see how the TC
and TCpass have fared compared to the control type, the percentages of the TC
and TCpass of the total instances of ready to were calculated (cf. Table 3).
Both the TCpass and TC have increased their portion of all instances of the
ready to pattern. The passive variant takes a slice of 4.2% in the BNC compared to
1.9% in the first subperiod of the CLMETEV, more than doubling its portion.
While the absolute rise in the percentage of the TC (2.0%) is lower than in the
TCpass (2.3%), the relative rise of the TC is slightly more than in the TCpass. All
in all, the use of ready in constructions in which the subject is a Patient (i.e. TC/
	 Mikko Höglund
TCpass) has become more frequent in comparison to the Agent subject construc-
tion (control) during the past 300 years.
OED. When examining the results from the OED, it must be borne in mind that
the material comes from the OED quotation database which is not meant to be
used as a corpus as such. This means that the database is not structured and the
text excerpts are not chosen to be included on the basis of constructing a corpus.
Instead, the quotations are intended to demonstrate the use of different words or
phrases in their context of use in various points in time, from the earliest attested
written example to modern day usage. Having said that, the OED nevertheless
offers wonderful examples of the ready to pattern, and despite the shortcomings
of the OED quotation database as a corpus, it yields more diachronic material for
the analysis. The results from the OED were divided into time periods according
to the division in the CLMETEV. The raw numbers are presented in Table 4.
As in the corpora, in the OED database the control construction is dominant
and the TCpass outnumbers the TC. There is no possibility of calculating the fre-
quencies per million words, since the OED quotation database is not a structured
corpus and the word counts of the sample sentences for any one period are un-
known. However, within the ready to pattern we can calculate the percentages of
the TCpass and TC, and see how the OED material displays the development.
Table 4.  The raw numbers in the OED.
ready to TCpass TC
–1710   512   27   8
1710–1780   192   12   8
1780–1850   269   20   5
1850–1920   529   49   6
1920-   648   34 25
TOTAL 2150 142 52
Table 5.  Percentage of the TCpass and TC of ready to cases in the OED.
TCpass TC Total
–1710 5.3% 1.6%   6.9%
1710–1780 6.3% 4.2% 10.5%
1780–1850 7.4% 1.9%   9.3%
1850–1920 9.3% 1.1% 10.4%
1920– 5.2% 3.9%   9.1%
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
Table 5 shows that in the OED material there has been some fluctuation in the
Patient subject type but it has stayed at a fairly stable level around ten percent
since the 1700s. This differs from the CLMETEV/BNC results which showed that
the percentage of TCpass/TC has been growing since the 1700s but has not yet
reached the ten percent mark (see Table 3). Nevertheless, the results from the
OED are in accordance with the CLMETEV/BNC results if we only look at the
TC. Coming to the 20th century, the TC has become more frequent compared to
the competing passive construction, almost reaching the same percentage of the
ready to cases. Since the total percentage of TCpass/TC has remained at a stable
level, we can see that the TC has proliferated at the expense of the TCpass based
on the OED data.
5.	 Discussion
It is very difficult to say anything general about how and why people use certain
words or constructions, and to try and explain why they do it differently at differ-
ent times in history is almost impossible. Conveying information and personal
thoughts are taken to be the main functions of language, and if we take the ready
to pattern as an example and look at the data in the previous section, what does it
tell us about the pattern’s function or the context of use? In the four periods under
scrutiny, the frequency of the ready to pattern has remained at a remarkably stable
level, ranging from 65 instances pmw to 80 instances pmw. This continuity seems
uncanny. If we think of all the situations where people would use the construction,
is it somehow a constant fact, dare I say, a universal, that people in general speak
of “things being ready” approximately 0.00735% of the time? The data surely seems
to suggest so.
People use language for certain functions in the world, and language change
often originates from changes in the world and/or in the functions. The stability of
the ready to construction seems to suggest that the fundamental experiential con-
text in which people use language has not changed much during the past 300 years,
at least when it comes to the need of expressing that “something is ready”. Of
course it has to be remembered that the data comes mostly from fictive writing,
which may bias the results towards a more stable inclination than, say, spoken
data. Nevertheless, the results of ready to per million words (Table 2) show that the
use of the construction has been fairly stable during the past 300 years and this
reflects the notion that the conceptualization of “some entity being ready” is not so
much dependent on the temporal, social or cultural context, but is more like a
basic relative notion in human cognition.
	 Mikko Höglund
5.1	 Ambiguity
As already pointed out, ready is an adjective that can occur in both the control and
tough constructions, and sometimes this may lead to ambiguity. These kind of
cases are rare though, because usually the context, or the type of verb, or the sub-
ject reveals the intended meaning. There are a few conditions that have to be ful-
filled for ambiguity to occur. The verb in the to infinitive has to be such that it can
be used both intransitively and transitively. The intransitive interpretation of the
verb then triggers the control sense, and the transitive interpretation triggers the
tough sense (Quirk et al. 1985: 1141). In addition, there has to be semantic com-
patibility between the verb and the subject. The subject has to be such that if the
verb is interpreted as transitive, the subject is an appropriate Patient argument for
that verb.
	 (16)	 a.	 The water is ready to drink.
		 b.	 James is ready to drink.
In (16a) the water can only be interpreted as the Patient argument of drink, thus
yielding the TC interpretation. However, in (16b) James cannot be conceived as
the Patient argument for drink and the control interpretation is the only possible
one. In a control construction the subject’s role is Agent and it has to be an en-
tity capable of volitional action (unlike water). Thus, the subject in a control
construction has to be human, or at least animate (or construed as one). The
biological definition of “humanness” per se is not applicable in terms of seman-
tics. The semantic notion of “humanness” entails e.g. volition, responsibility, in-
tentionality and sentiency. Yamamoto (1999, 2006) talks about “inferred ani-
macy” when these features are attributed to inanimate entities such as machines
or institutions. In this paper, all the entities that are human or construed as hu-
man in terms of inferred animacy are considered under the rubric “human” (as
opposed to non-human).
So, for ambiguity to occur, the same entity must be able to be the target as well
as the instigator of the action denoted by the infinitive. This is the case for example
in the following sentence:
	 (17)	 The chicken is ready to eat.
Very often sentences in English have multiple interpretations, but usually there is
“semantic bias” to one of the possible readings (Hirst 1987: 9). The bias may also
come from the context, like it would in example (17), in which there is no clear
semantic bias. The chicken is capable of volitional action, here eating, and is also
quite frequently the target of the mentioned action, thus enabling both roles, Agent
and Patient, to be postulated. Here the conditions are fulfilled i.e. the verb can be
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
transitive or intransitive, and the subject can be seen as the “doer” or “doee” of the
action in the infinitive, thus yielding ambiguity.
5.2	 Selection of TCpass/TC and humanity of subject
As can be seen in the corpus study results, the control type is the standard variant,
accounting for 90% of the cases in which ready is complemented by a to infinitive
clause:
	 (18)	 “Very well,” said Sir Philip; “I am ready to hear you; but first, go and get
some refreshment after your journey (CLMETEV1)
The subject of the main clause is also the understood subject of the lower clause
i.e. it is I who is ready and who hears. The prevalence of the control type reflects
the overall tendency to try to be as clear as possible, which in this case means
retaining the same subject in both clauses, and moreover, it reflects the way peo-
ple tend to talk about the world. It is much more common to talk about some
Agent doing something, than it is to talk about something being done to a
Patient.
The variant in which the Patient occupies the subject position holds less than
10 percent of the ready to instances. These Patient-subject cases are of two different
types; the most frequent one in the data is the TCpass, in which the lower clause
verb is in the passive:
	 (19)	 The candle was ready to be lighted (CLMETEV2)
In this construction the passive form of the infinitive makes it explicit that the
subject is to be interpreted as the Patient.
The other case in which the subject is the Patient is the TC.4 Here there is no
explicit formal indication of the subject’s patienthood:
	 (20)	 and another mute, a young girl this time, announced to me by signs that I
could not misunderstand--that is, by opening her mouth and pointing
down it--that there was something ready to eat. (CLMETEV3)
If we only look at the form of the sentence, something might as well be the Agent.
Nevertheless, there are contextual indicators which guide the interpretation in the
4.	 In a TC, there can be an explicit Agent/Experiencer for the lower clause verb, expressed by
a for-phrase:
	 (i) There is an eminence ready for him to mount upon. (CLMETEV2)
The TC with the for-phrase is only an extended version of the TC, so they are grouped and dis-
cussed together under “TC”.
	 Mikko Höglund
right direction: something here refers to food and is the Patient – the understood
object – of the lower clause verb eat.
The TCpass and TC are synonymous constructions when it comes to the truth
value. Even though the forms are different, the basic meaning is the same. By
meaning here I refer to the conceptualization of an event in the world that is being
communicated, and also to the pragmatic function of the communication. The
TCpass and TC not only describe the same event, but in addition they do not differ
in the pragmatic sense – something that would entail different pragmatic func-
tions. Let us consider for example the sentence Mary is easy to please / to be pleased.
In both the situation is so that we have an entity Mary that has a particular quality
or property, in this case that pleasing her is easy. The sequence easy to please can
be seen as a complex adjective i.e. one proposition describing the said quality, as
proposed by Nanni (1980), which is a justified view on the basis that TC predicates
are not independent but always need a complement (see Section 2). Also, the ac-
tive can have a passive meaning as dicussed in Section 2, thus giving the active
clause the same interpretation as the passive one. By not differing in the prag-
matic sense I mean that the order of information is the same in both variants un-
like in the extraposed construction which conveys the same conceptualization but
has a different information order and different pragmatic function: It is easy to
please Mary (See e.g. Hietaranta 1984; Biber et al. 1999: 728ff.). This is supported
by the data found in the corpora, and several native speakers’ judgment. The data
from corpora show no evidence that the core meanings of the TCpass and TC
would differ, and the native speakers whom the author has consulted reported no
difference in meaning between the TCpass and TC (albeit they tended to prefer
one or the other, depending on the context).
If the TCpass and TC are indeed synonymous constructions, what dictates the
choice between the two? To fulfill the communicative purpose, the message must be
as clear as possible, and at the same time speakers want the message to be as compact
as possible. The TCpass is more communicative because of the passive form which
makes the Patient role of the subject explicit, and the TC is the more concise option.
It seems that the choice between the two constructions is made on a case by case
basis, and that depends on the context of use which includes the topic of the conver-
sation and the interlocutors’ familiarity with it, and their general knowledge of the
world. The more of these conditions the interlocutors share, the more likely it is that
they use the less explicit TC, favoring the brevity of the construction. The less the
interlocutors share the conditions, the more likely it is that they use the TCpass
which makes the message explicit and clear. Regarding written texts, it is perhaps no
surprise that the TCpass is favored, because the audience is unknown, thus making
it impossible to figure how much of the knowledge they share with the author, so it
is safer in general to use the explicit TCpass to get the message through and avoid
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
possible confusion and ambiguity. Nevertheless, in written texts the TC is of course
also used alongside the TCpass. In order to see what affects the choice in written
texts, the data from the corpora and the OED were analyzed token by token. While
the textual context possibly being the main factor in selecting between the TCpass
and TC, the subjects found in the two constructions were also investigated and cat-
egorized according to their semantic properties, and also the possible input of the
infinitival verb was taken into consideration.
Generally and typically the Agent is animate and human, and the Patient is an
inanimate object (Dowty 1991; Givón 2001; Yamamoto 2006). This would imply that
when the tough subject is animate and human, the TCpass would be favored. This is
because it is not typical for an animate human entity to have the Patient role, and that
is why the Patient role requires clarification via the passive construction. If the nor-
mal, active TC is used, the human cognition parsing the sentence would interpret
the animate human subject as an Agent by default, thus causing possible confusion
and ambiguity when the parsing carries on to the rest of the sentence. That is, if the
sentence begins John is ready to..., the default interpretation would be that John is the
Agent in the sentence, because typically that is the case for human subjects. How-
ever, the passive variant makes it explicit that John is the understood object of the
lower clause verb and has the Patient role: John is ready to be pleased. If, on the other
hand, the TC was used, it would result in structural ambiguity: John is ready to please.
John can be either the pleaser or the pleasee. Of course the role of John should be
clear in context, but in order to avoid any confusion and ambiguity the TCpass is
favored when a volitional human entity is in question. This analytical hypothesis is
confirmed when we look at the data (cf. Tables 6 and 7).
As we can see in Tables 6 and 7, there is not a single human subject to be ob-
served with the TC in the CLMETEV, BNC, or OED data. In all of the 23 cases
where a human subject is found in the corpora, and in the 20 cases in the OED, the
TCpass is the construction that is chosen. Some cases were found where an ani-
mate but non-human entity (better candidate for Agent than inanimate) was the
Table 6.  Humanity of the subject in the CLMETEV and BNC.
TCpass TC
non-human human non-human human
CLMETEV 1710–1780   4 –   3 –
1780–1850   8   4   7 –
1850–1920 11   7 13 –
BNC 1985–1993 26 12 31 –
TOTAL 49 23 54 –
	 Mikko Höglund
Table 7.  Humanity of the subject in the OED.
OED
TCpass TC
non-human human non-human human
–1710   17   8   8 –
1710–1780   10   2   8 –
1780–1850   17   3   5 –
1850–1920   45   4   6 –
1920–   31   3 25 –
TOTAL 120 20 52 –
subject in a TC, but in these the verb or the structure was of such a type that there
could be no mistaking that the subject’s role was Patient:
	 (21)	 Hold every one his horse ready to mount. (CLMETEV3)
	 (22)	 He had the horse almost ready to take out, when the stable door was
thrown open (BNC)
In (21) it would be odd and unusual to interpret the sentence as the horse mount-
ing something (or someone!) and in (22) as the horse taking something out (espe-
cially in the absence of a following object). It is quite clear that the role of horse in
both is Patient, and the TC is chosen instead of the TCpass.
A human subject example demonstrates why the TCpass is preferred when the
subject is human:
	 (23)	 The policemen had advanced, and stood ready to be questioned. (CLME-
TEV2)
In example (23) the subject is the policemen, a human subject, and the lower verb
is to question. If the TC was used, it would create ambiguity, and the identity of the
questioner and the questionee would be more difficult to infer, especially because
policemen more often ask the questions than face them:
	 (23′)	 The policemen had advanced, and stood ready to question.
Naturally, the broader textual context provides clues for the interpretation of the
sentence, but for maximal communicative effect, it is safer to use the TCpass, and
this is the strategy that authors employ, as the evidence shows. In (23), the lower
verb question is fairly commonly used without an object as an intransitive verb,
and that is why the TC (23’) would cause ambiguity. However, even though the
verb would be one that is rarely used as an intransitive verb, the human subject
seems to be the ultimate trigger for the use of the TCpass:
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
	 (24)	 Such a force of Irish Rebels now ready to be shipped for their assistance
and enforcement. (OED)
In (24), the lower verb ship is rarely used as an intransitive verb, so the TC would
not be likely to cause ambiguity:
	 (24′)	 Such a force of Irish Rebels now ready to ship for their assistance and en-
forcement.
The TC here would not be ambiguous because of the strong transitive character of
the verb ship, and also because of the presence of the adverbial phrase following
the verb, indicating that the Patient argument for ship has to be sought elsewhere.
But again, the TCpass is used for maximal communicative effect since the subject
is human, a prototypical Agent.
5.3	 Authors using both constructions
In these kind of data with relatively few examples, it is possible for a single author’s
extensive use of a construction to skew the results. However, in this data set, no
such skewing was detected; no one author used the ready to pattern to the extent
that it would deviate notably from the average.
In both CLMETEV and BNC, there were authors who used both the TCpass
and TC. Unfortunately, the use of single authors did not reveal anything ground-
breaking that would indicate any clear pattern in the choice of the TCpass and
TC. For example, in CLMETEV1, Bradley used the TC twice and the TCpass
once:
	 (25)	 a.	 and in a Month’s time it [wine] will be ready to bottle.
		 b.	 and it [sauce] is ready to pour over your Fish
	 (26)	 it [sauce] is always ready to be used with every kind of Flesh,
All three subjects are inanimate and thus candidates for the TC. However, in
(26) the TCpass is used without an obvious reason. The antecedent of the pro-
nominal subject is the same in (26) as it is in (25b), and the verb in (26), use,
being nowadays very common with the TC, would be assumed to have been
one of the first verbs to accommodate the TC instead of the passive variant.
Bradley seems to be well aware of the TC as a construction, having used it, but
why he chose the TCpass in (26) is not completely clear. One possibility is that
the intervening adverb always adds distance between the lower verb and
its understood object, and according to Rohdenburg’s (1996) Complexity
Principle more complex environments tend to favor more explicit and trans-
parent constructions. It could be argued that in this case always contributes
	 Mikko Höglund
to the grammatical complexity, thus leading the author to prefer the more ex-
plicit TCpass.
In CLMETEV2, Gaskell used the TCpass and TC both twice. Both cases of the
TC had an inanimate subject, but the TCpass sentences had an inanimate, and a
human subject:
	 (27)	 a.	 The candle was ready to be lighted,
		 b.	 The policemen had advanced, and stood ready to be questioned.
The fact that the same author may use both TCpass and TC for inanimate subjects
shows that whereas the rule for using the TCpass with human subjects is very
strong, there is variability and freedom of choice when the subject is inanimate.
However, in CLMETEV3, Yonge uses the TCpass and TC consistently with regard
to the humanity of the subject. All his three cases of TCpass have a human subject
whereas one case of the TC has a non-human subject. In the writings of Haggard,
on the other hand, three cases of inanimate subject were found, two in the TC and
one in the TCpass, same as in Bradley (25 and 26) above.
Booth uses the TC once and the TCpass three times:
	 (28)	 situations being ready for them to enter upon
	 (29)	 a.	 Scriptures ever represent the unconverted as under condemnation, in
imminent danger, ready to be destroyed,
		 b.	 I am now ready to be offered,
		 c.	 Conscience frequently offended soon becomes “seared”--mark, not de-
stroyed; quick and raw enough underneath, ready to be probed and
fretted by the worm that dieth not, and scorched by the fire that never
goes out
In two instances of the TCpass (29ab) the subject is human, as might be expected.
In (29c) the subject is basically inanimate, but metonymically connected to features
of humanity, which might explain the preference for the passive. Another factor
explaining the preference for the TCpass is the Agent argument, which is expressed
in the by-phrase, and also the coordinated VP containing another by-phrase Agent.
Even though it is possible to express the Agent argument in a TC with a for-phrase,
in this case with a long Agent argument and coordination, the structure would be
overly complex and awkward:
	 (29)	 c′.	 Conscience frequently offended soon becomes “seared”-- mark, not de-
stroyed; quick and raw enough underneath, ready for the worm that
dieth not to probe and fret, and for the fire that never goes out to
scorch
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
By using the passive and having the Agent in the by-phrase, the principle of end-
weight is followed and the construction is easier to access. In addition, there seems
to be a difference in the meaning and prominence of the Agent depending on
whether it is expressed by a for or by-phrase, but this matter is out of the scope of
the present paper.
5.4	 Verbs
Based on the evidence presented above, the subject and its semantic properties are
one major factor in determining the choice between the TCpass and TC. In this
section the other main building block of the construction, the verb in the to in-
finitive, will be taken under closer examination. The matrix verb is not considered
here since it is practically always a copula with little semantic input, or the Adj-­
to-V construction is an object complement as in examples (21–22). The former
case is by far the most usual one.
All relevant infinitival verbs in the corpora and OED data were studied and
the aim was to see if there are emerging patterns, which verbs occur in both
variants, and what the overall distribution of the verbs between the two con-
structions is. In the data, there were 214 cases of the TCpass and 105 cases of
the TC. In the TCpass data, 158 different verbs were represented and in the TC
data, 65 different verbs occurred. This means that both constructions are fairly
productive. The TC is slightly less productive than the TCpass, which is ex-
pected since it does not normally allow human subjects due to possible ambigu-
ity and thus the range of verbs is restricted. Regarding the variation between
the TC and TCpass, the most interesting cases to investigate in the verb data are
the ones in which a verb occurs in both the TCpass and TC. There were 15 of
these verbs:
Table 8.  Verbs occurring with both TC and TCpass in the data.
Verb TCpass TC Verb TCpass TC
carry 5 2 put 5 4
cook 1 2 send 3 2
cut 3 2 serve 1 4
eat 2 4 take 5 4
fire 2 1 throw 1 5
make 5 1 (re-)use 3 6
market 1 1 wear 1 1
pour 2 4
	 Mikko Höglund
As can be seen in Table 8, no apparent generalizable reason for using one or the
other construction came up in the data that would be controlled by the infinitival
verb. Most of the subjects in this data set were inanimate except two occurring
with the verbs send and take, and these had the TCpass as expected. Nor did the
dates of the examples reveal anything; the results were scattered across the differ-
ent periods. The only clear case was the verb eat, which was used in the TCpass
only pre-1710 and in the TC only after 1850. This is the direction in which the
prototypical tough-adjectives like easy, hard and difficult have gone, towards oc-
curring exclusively in the TC, abandoning the TCpass. But with ready the TCpass
is still strong because of the control-prone character of the adjective.
6.	 Conclusion
This paper presented a study on the adjective ready in a construction where it is
complemented by a to infinitive clause. The construction with the pattern ready to
can curiously be interpreted in two different ways: the subject either as the under-
stood subject of the lower verb (control construction) or as the understood object
of the lower verb (tough construction). In the latter interpretation, there is also
another possible structure in which the ambiguity is not present. In this construc-
tion the to infinitive is in the passive, thus making it explicit that the subject is the
understood object i.e. Patient argument of the lower verb. This paper investigated
the interaction between the Patient subject constructions, their use over the past
three centuries, and the necessary conditions determining choice between the ac-
tive and passive tough constructions.
It was observed in the corpora that the control construction is by far the most
common construction, covering over 90% of the cases in all time periods. This is
not surprising since the general tendency is to have volitional agentive subjects
instead of Patients as topics. However, the construction with the non-canonical
subject (TC & TCpass) seems to be gaining more ground. In the period 1710–1780
these tokens covered only 3.3% of the ready to instances, whereas in the BNC data
the percentage was 7.5%. Of the Patient subject constructions the passive variant
was more frequent than the active TC in all periods. It was observed that the se-
mantics of the subject affect the selection between the TC and TCpass. When the
subject is human (or something that is construed as a volitional entity in the con-
text), the TCpass is used exclusively to avoid ambiguity. In addition, it was ob-
served that the type of verb in the infinitive clause plays no part in determining the
choice between the two competing constructions. It seems that the TCpass is the
standard, unmarked variant in this pattern, being more explicit and having no
constraints on the semantics of the subject. On the other hand, it was observed
	 Active and passive infinitive, ambiguity with ready	 
that with some individual lexemes, like eat and use, the TC is becoming more en-
trenched and may already be the standard variant.
It must be borne in mind that the data comes largely from written fiction,
and in spoken corpora the proportions of the constructions in the ready to pat-
tern might be somewhat different. To speculate on that, it may be that in casual
speech, where ambiguous statements can be readily corrected, the TC is proba-
bly more common than in written texts compared to the competing TCpass. A
search in the spoken section of the BNC however reveals that the numbers for
TC and TCpass are more or less even. In general, the observed increase in TC
numbers, and its catching up on the passive means that the TC with ready is
becoming more entrenched, probably influenced by the growing usage of the
prototypical TC predicates. However, the ambiguity seems to be a very strong
opposing force keeping the TCpass alive with ready. The overall rise in the use of
the non-canonical subject constructions (TC & TCpass) is then perhaps an indi-
cator of an ongoing change in the way language is used and how events are con-
ceptualized and expressed.
Sources
De Smet, H. 2012. The Corpus of Late Modern English Texts (extended version). <https://per-
swww.kuleuven.be/~u0044428 /clmetev.htm> (fall 2012).
British National Corpus, version 3 (BNC XML Edition). (2007). Distributed by Oxford Univer-
sity Computing Services on behalf of the BNC Consortium. URL: http://www.natcorp.
ox.ac.uk/.
References
Biber, D., Johansson S., Leech G., Conrad S. & Finegan E. 1999. Longman Grammar of Spoken
and Written English. Harlow: Longman.
Carnie, A. 2002. Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Chung, Y-S. 2001. Tough Construction in English: A Construction Grammar Approach. PhD
dissertation, University of California, Berkeley.
Collins Cobuild English Dictionary. 1995. London: HarperCollins.
Curme, G.O. 1931. Syntax. Boston MA: D.C. Heath and company.
De Smet, H. 2005. A corpus of Late Modern English. ICAME Journal 29: 69–82.
Dowty, D. 1991. Thematic proto-roles and argument selection. Language 67: 547–619. DOI:
10.1353/lan.1991.0021
Fillmore, C. & Kay P. 1995. Construction Grammar. Ms.
Francis, G., Hunston S. & Manning E. (eds). 1998. Collins Cobuild Grammar Patterns, 2: Nouns
and Adjectives. London: HarperCollins.
Givón, T. 2001. Syntax, Vol. I. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 Mikko Höglund
Goldberg, A. 1995. Constructions: A Construction Grammar Approach to Argument Structure.
Chicago IL: The University of Chicago Press.
Goldberg, A. 2006. Constructions at Work: The Nature of Generalization in Language. Oxford:
OUP
Hietaranta, P. S. 1983. In Defence of the Possibility of Sentential Tough Complements. Tampere:
University of Tampere.
Hietaranta, P.S. 1984. Some functional aspects of the tough construction. Studia Neophilologica
56: 21–5. DOI: 10.1080/00393278408587877
Hirst, G. 1987. Semantic Interpretation and the Resolution of Ambiguity. Cambridge: CUP. DOI:
10.1017/CBO9780511554346
Jackendoff, R. 1975. Tough and the Trace Theory of Movement Rules. Linguistic Inquiry 6:
437–447.
Jespersen, O. 1940. A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles, Part V. London: Allen
& Unwin.
Langacker, R.W. 1999. Grammar and Conceptualization. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI:
10.1515/9783110800524
Mair, C. 1987. Tough-movement in Present-Day British English: A corpus-based study. Studia
Linguistica 41: 59–71. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9582.1987.tb00773.x
Nanni, D.L. 1980. On the surface syntax of constructions with easy-type adjectives. Language
56: 568–81. DOI: 10.2307/414450
Oxford English Dictionary, <www.OED.com> (fall 2012).
Postal, P.M. 1971. Cross-Over Phenomena. New York NY: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Postal, P.M. 1974. On Raising. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Poutsma, H. 1914. A Grammar of Late Modern English: Part II – the parts of speech section I, A
– nouns, adjectives and articles. Groningen: Noordhoof.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum S., Leech G. & Svartvik J. 1985. A Comprehensive Grammar of the English
Language. London: Longman.
Rohdenburg, G. 1996. Cognitive complexity and increased grammatical explicitness in English.
Cognitive Linguistics 7: 149–182. DOI: 10.1515/cogl.1996.7.2.149
Rosenbaum, P.S. 1967. The Grammar of English Predicate Complement Constructions. Cambridge
MA: The MIT Press.
Sweet, H. 1898. A New English Grammar, Part II: Syntax. Oxford: OUP.
Visser, F.T. 1966. An Historical Syntax of the English Language, Part 2: Syntactical Units with One
Verb. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Yamamoto, M. 1999. Animacy and Reference: A Cognitive Approach to Corpus Linguistics [Stud-
ies in Language Companion Series 46]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.46
Yamamoto, M. 2006. Agency and Impersonality: Their Linguistic and Cultural Manifestations [Stud-
ies in Language Companion Series 78]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.78
part 4
Patterns of clause combining
The diffusion of English absolutes
A diachronic register study
Nikki van de Pol* and Hubert Cuyckens
University of Leuven and *Research Foundation ‒ Flanders
The present paper addresses the register diffusion of the English absolute, a
non-finite construction functioning as an adverbial (an example from Present-
day-English is: One of the cheap cigars to which she was addicted burns ignored
between her fingers, the skin of her face dragging down with indifference. (BNC,
Van Gogh: a life, 1990)). On the basis of diachronic corpus research including
corpora such as the BNC, the Old Bailey corpus and the Penn parsed corpora
of English it is argued that the distribution of absolutes in various historical
registers of written English, as well as in spoken English, appears to have shifted
from a system operating along the ‘formal vs. informal’ cline and, to a lesser
extent, the ‘narrative vs. non-narrative’ cline in Early Modern English to registers
operating along the ‘literary vs. non-literary’ cline in Present-day English.
Special attention is given to the role of with-augmentation which may have been
an important facilitator for the absolute construction to fully establish itself in
the spoken register, as the addition of an augmentor enhances ease of processing
(Berent 1975, Kortmann 1995).
Keywords: absolute construction, register diffusion, corpus linguistics,
diachronic linguistics, English
1.	 Introduction1
The present paper addresses the diffusion of the absolute construction (AC), a
non-finite construction which functions as an adverbial, in various historical reg-
isters of written English, as well as in spoken English. Synchronic and diachronic
accounts of the AC to date (Ross 1893, Quirk et al. 1985, Kortmann 1991, 1995,
1.	 The research reported in this article was supported by the Research Foundation ‒ Flanders.
Our sincere thanks go to two anonymous reviewers for comments and feedback on an earlier
version. Needless to say, we are solely responsible for any remaining errors.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
Timofeeva 2010) have commonly made reference to register, but detailed discus-
sions of the distribution of the AC across (historical) registers are lacking, nor have
relevant claims been based on (extensive) corpus research (a notable exception is
Kohnen 2004; see below). This paper, then, wishes to contribute to present schol-
arship on the AC by providing a corpus-based, diachronic study of the (changing)
distribution of English ACs across a range of text types and with a focus on the
Modern English (ModE) and Present-day English (PDE) period. The broader the-
oretical interest of this paper lies in the fact that the distribution of ACs appears to
have shifted from registers operating along the ‘formal vs. informal’ cline (in
EModE) to registers operating along the ‘literary vs. non-literary’ cline (in PDE).
Section 2 introduces the AC’s structural and semantic characteristics. Section 3
presents a survey of current scholarship on the diffusion of the AC, as a run-up to
the research questions in Section 4. After a discussion of data and methodology in
Section 5, Section 6 presents the main findings of the study. Finally, Section 7 pro-
vides a brief conclusion.
2.	 An introduction to the absolute construction
The AC (in English), as in (1), is a non-finite construction which is syntactically
independent from the rest of the clause.2 It consists of two core elements: a (pro)
nominal subject (e.g. his white cloak) and a predicate (e.g. snapping) (Bauer 2000:
261), which can be realized in a number of ways (cf. infra). Although definitions of
the AC often mention the absence of any coreferentiality between the subject of the
AC and an element of the matrix clause, coreferentiality does occur rather frequent-
ly (e.g. the relation between his white cloak and Jaime) (Kortmann 1995: 211‒213).
	 (1)	 Jaime turned his horse about, his white cloak snapping in the wind.
		 (George R.R. Martin. 2005. A Feast for Crows, p. 185)3
Two main subtypes of ACs can be distinguished (see Kortmann 1991: 11): the
augmented AC, which is introduced by the prepositions with or without, as in (2),
and the unaugmented AC, not introduced by a preposition (see Kortmann 1991:
11), as in (1) and (3), and considered to be more prototypical.4 The preposition
introducing augmented ACs is called the augmentor. In PDE, with(out) is the only
2.	 Hence also its name, which has been derived from the Latin verb absolvere ‘to untie, to
loosen’.
3.	 Some of the examples are taken from sources other than the corpora employed.
4.	 In the sense that the unaugmented variant is historically the oldest and most frequent of the
two (van de Pol 2010).
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
commonly used augmentor; however, in Middle English and to some extent still in
ModE, various other augmentors were still available such as after, before or by rea-
son of, as illustrated in (4) (see Visser 1973).
	 (2)	 With Stannis Baratheon and Tyrion Lannister contending for the iron
Throne, we have a rare chance to improve our lot.
		 (George R.R. Martin. 2005. A Feast for Crows, p. 185.)
	 (3)	 He had died in her arms, his life’s blood drenching her.
		 (George R.R. Martin. 2005. A Feast for Crows, p. 234.)
	 (4)	 Then the Clerk of the Arraigns after Silence commanded read over his
Indictment to him, which was as follows:... (PPCMBE, The genuine trial of
Francis Townley, late of Manchester, 1746)
ACs can occur with a wide range of different predicate types, the most common
being present (5) or past (6) participles (Kortmann 1995: 195). Other types are: per-
fective participles (7), noun/noun phrases (8), adjective/adjectival phrases (9),
adverb/adverbial phrases (10), prepositional phrases (11), or even infinitives (12)
(Kortmann 1995: 195). Although several researchers have chosen to focus on ACs
withpresentand/orpastparticiplepredicates(e.gRío-Rey2002,Killie&Swan2009),
the current study will take all types under consideration (which will allow examining
whether particular predicate types are connected to particular text varieties).
	 (5)	 When the images are combined into a single shot, everyone will appear to
be fighting together, with the dwarves coming up only to around the elves’
elbows. <http://www.richardarmitagenet.com/images/articlescans/Hob-
bit/EW-3Jul12-2.jpg> (13 July 2012)
	 (6)	 With the ducklings caught between the reeds, we should be able to pick
them up. (Animal Cops, Animal Planet, 9 March 2012)
	 (7)	 They were in a private room, the doctor having told her that she needed to
wait a while longer before she could give birth. (http://www.fanfiction.
net/s/6192919/1/Memory_Album, published 30 July 2010, accessed 30
May 2012)
	 (8)	 He was scrawny and ill fed, his only armor a dinted halfhelm spotted with
rust. (George R.R. Martin. 2005. A Feast for Crows, p. 315)
	 (9)	 With the internet so readily available, there is no excuse for not research-
ing BEFORE adopting a pet. (http://www.dogbreedinfo.com/articles/
breedersvsrescues.htm, accessed 17 February 2012)
	 (10)	 Now with the monsoon season over, and several more boatloads of Cam-
bodians reported on their way by Indonesian officials, Australian immi-
gration authorities are preparing for yet another major influx of refugees.
		 (BNC, Independent Television News, period 1985‒1994)
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
	 (11)	 Brienne stood beneath the gallows, the precious parchment in her hand.
		 (George R.R. Martin. 2005. A Feast for Crows, p. 235)
	 (12)	 Each man was required to buy into the contest with a golden dragon, the
whole sum to go to whoever claimed her maidenhead.
		 (George R.R. Martin. 2005. A Feast for Crow, p. 238)
Semantically, ACs can express a wide range of relations with the matrix clause,
similar to the range of meanings that can be expressed by finite (subordinate) ad-
verbial clauses (Berent 1973: 147, Stump 1985: 3, Haspelmath 1995: 27, Komen
1994: 11, Kortmann 1995: 215‒217).5 Examples are: anteriority (13), cause (14),
condition (15) and concession (16).
	 (13)	 With Sammy settled down, Cesar brings him face to face with his greatest
nemesis. (Dogwhisperer, National Geographic Channel, 3 March 2012)
	 (14)	 The kidney being a discrete organ, there was every chance that the cancer
had been contained. (BNC, Fighting cancer: A personal story, 1989)
	 (15)	 With the Family giving more attention, I think Peanut Butter will be a
much happier dog. (It’s me or the Dog, Animal Planet, 24 January 2009)
	 (16)	 But even with a lifebelt on, one is not unaware of the ocean around.6
		 (BNC, Fighting cancer: A personal story, 1989)
In addition, ACs may express a semantic relation of elaboration, without any clear-
ly identifiable adverbial relation being present, as in (17). This use is especially
common in PDE (see van de Pol & Cuyckens 2013).
	 (17)	 She has committed several sins, greed and gluttony being high on the list.
		 (BNC, In good faith, 1989)
3.	 Earlier studies
As we have pointed out above, earlier accounts of the distribution of the AC across
(historical) registers in English have been partial at best: some are synchronic
(as such, Quirk et al. 1985 and Kortmann 1991, 1995 examine PDE data, while
Timofeeva 2010 looks into the AC in Old English), some only consider a restricted
set of text types (Kortmann 1991, 1995), and some present claims not based on
5.	 Often, the AC is semantically indeterminate, whereby its exact interpretation is largely
context-dependent (and to some extent up to the reader/listener).
6.	 Note that when an augmented AC expresses concessional meaning, the augmentor is often
even with rather than with.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
extensive corpus research (Ross 1893). The most detailed, diachronic register
study of the AC to date is Kohnen (2004), but it is embedded in a more compre-
hensive analysis of participial constructions, so it is not always possible to isolate
results pertaining only to the AC.
Still, these accounts have raised an important issue, which will be of further in-
terest in this paper. It concerns the main factor determining the token frequency of
ACs across text types, in particular, whether AC frequency is determined by the de-
gree of ‘formality’ of a text (or of the situation in which the text occurs) or by its ‘nar-
rative’ or ‘depictive character’ (each of these notions will be defined in Section 4).
It has been pointed out on several occasions that it is formal text types that are
the province of the AC. As such, Quirk et al. (1985: 1120), whose scope is restrict-
ed to PDE, state that ACs are formal and infrequent. Ross, in his (1893) study on
ACs in Middle and Modern English, views ACs ‒ at least until 1660 ‒ as markers
of a “classical, learned, scholastic style” (1893: 273). Similar observations are made
by Kohnen (2004: 352), who draws attention to the importance of the formality of
text types for the development of ACs (from Middle English onwards).7 Finally,
ACs in Old English are considered by many scholars to be a borrowing from Latin
(see, for instance, Callaway 1889, 1918, Kisbye 1971: 27, 72, Sato 2009: 9, Sørensen
1967: 141, Ross 1893: 260 and Timofeeva 2008, 2010, 2012), and thus likely to be
used by learned people and/or contexts of formal, learned writing.8 An additional
factor contributing to ACs’ formal character in Old English is that they are clearly
more common in translations from Latin than in native texts (van de Pol 2010).9
This characterization of ACs as largely a feature of formal language use has,
however, been qualified. As such, König and van der Auwera (1990: 349) have
claimed that “[a]ugmented ACs (i.e. those introduced by with/avec) are very com-
mon even in informal registers of English and French”. In a similar vein, Kortmann
hasnotedthat with-ACsare“stilistischwenigermarkiert” (less stylistically marked)
(1988: 69) than their unaugmented counterparts. It would appear, then, that regis-
ter restrictions that are in place for the unaugmented variant do not necessarily
hold for the augmented variant.
7.	 In this respect, he points out that it is no coincidence that it is text types such as religious
prose and petitions/laws where ACs first occur, which derive their formal status from their ec-
clesiastical or worldly power and influence (Kohnen 2004: 352‒353).
8.	 Even if ACs in Old English are not considered a true borrowing from Latin, the fact re-
mains that they occur in contexts of learned writing, which lends them their formal character.
9.	 This does not mean that ACs in native OE texts are informal. As Timofeeva (2010: 73)
points out: “It seems obvious that most of the A[bsolute]P[articipial]C[onstruction]s that we
find in the independent O[ld] E[nglish] texts, in fact, show some dependence on the wider
Latinate context of the medieval literary production.”
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
Rather than degree of formality determining the distribution of ACs across
registers, it has been advocated, for one by Kortmann (1995: 191), “that it is the
depictive versus nondepictive distinction which is relevant to the token frequency
of free adjuncts and ACs among written registers, and not the distinction between
formal and informal discourse”. In particular, Kortmann’s (1991) study of PDE
ACs (and free adjuncts) finds that “[i]n written language the frequency of their use
decreases proportionally to an increase of the formality of the text type. Thus, nar-
rative texts are found to abound in them, whereas scientific writing displays the
lowest frequency rate of adjuncts and absolutes” (1991: 2). In short, a high fre-
quency of ACs is found to be associated with text types that are more elaborate and
narrative in nature and add ample background information and extra detail to the
main message of the text.10 Interestingly, ACs’ narrative and depictive function is
not solely a feature of PDE, but has also been shown to be present in ModE. As
Ross (1893: 302) points out, “In the second period, extending from 1660 to the
present time, the construction [i.e., the AC] becomes naturalized ... and its sphere
is largely narrowed to that of narration and description”. Additional support comes
from Kohnen’s (2004: 151, 248) summarizing diagrams of the evolution of the AC
across text types.
4.	 Research questions
As was mentioned in the introduction, the aim of this paper is to provide a corpus-
based, diachronic study of the (changing) distribution of English ACs across a
range of registers and with a focus on the Modern English (ModE) and Present-
day English (PDE) period. Previous studies have raised the issue of the factor(s)
determining this distribution across registers, but answers have been incomplete
as well as inconclusive (see Section 3). The research questions that we intend to
address, then, are the following.
1.	 We first wish to identify the factor(s) that best predict the distribution of ACs
across registers. In particular, in view of the literature (as surveyed above), we
will examine whether this distribution is determined by (i) degree of formality
of the discourse (and more specifically whether high/low formality corre-
sponds with high/low AC frequency or, conversely, with low/high frequency),
by (ii) its narrative character, or (iii) by its literary (largely depictive) character.
10.	 Note that, while involving corpus research, Kortmann’s results are based on a limited set of
data: 269 ACs from only four text types (fiction, news, science and spoken English), with some
samples lacking representativeness. The results for the ‘science’ text type, for example, are based
on four excerpts from one and the same book on conditionals (Kortmann 1991: note on texts).
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
In addition, we will explore whether these factor(s)/dimensions remain(s)
stable or shift(s) over time. Stability is suggested, for instance, by Kisbye’s
(1971: 43) description of the AC construction as limited to set phrases in lan-
guage use. A shift from formal to informal registers is proposed by Kohnen
(1996: 186), who points out the following about present participle construc-
tions (including ACs):
Standardisierung scheint sich nicht nur in, sondern auch über Textsorten zu vollzie-
hen: Im vorliegenden Fall deutet vieles darauf hin, daß die Expansion von “oben”
nach “unten” geht, also bei formellen, prestigehaltigen Textsorten beginnt und dann
bei informelleren Textsorten fortschreitet.
‘It seems that standardization does not only take place within certain text types
but also across different text types. In the case under investigation there are many
signs that show that the expansion spreads from “high” to “low”. In other words,
the expansion begins in formal, prestigious text types and then gradually finds its
way into more informal varieties.’
Then again, if Present-day English ACs appear to fit in best with more narrative or
depictive types of discourse, regardless of whether they are formal or informal (as
is proposed by Kortmann 1991: 2, 1995: 191), this is suggestive of a shift in deter-
mining factors (from a register distribution determined by degree of formality to
one determined by degree of narrativeness or depictiveness). Consider, for in-
stance, PDE examples (18) and (19), which, irrespective of whether their surround-
ing discourse is formal or informal, occur in a narrative/depictive context, with an
attention for detail and where the AC provides additional context and depth.
	 (18)	 To provide a place within your tradition where a candle may be lit, not for
magic but for memory, its flickering flame symbolising the frailty of hu-
man life, its warmth communicating the mercy of God’s love, its light il-
luminating the dark night of despair. (BNC, In good faith, 1989)
	 (19)	 Creatures often seem to have gone out of their way to find him and display
themselves to him. Yet the hunter, walking with gun on arm, thoughts
only of killing and murder in his mind and his intent clearly expressed in
his body language, is shunned in fear by all creatures who can.
		 (BNC, Natural creation & the formative mind, 1991)
2.	 We wish to explore the register distribution of augmented versus unaugment-
ed ACs. This will allow us to establish whether there exists a correlation be-
tween the frequency of augmented ACs in a text and the register category the
text belongs to. In particular, we would like to verify whether it is indeed the
augmented variant that has gained most ground in spoken English, as is sug-
gested by König & van der Auwera (1990: 349; see above).
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
3.	 Finally, we wish to identify the register distribution of individual predicate
types, as a way to find out whether particular registers attract particular AC
subtypes. In addition, this will allow us to examine which registers display the
highest structural AC variety.
In examining the distribution of ACs across text types, we are regarding text types
as register categories, and the occurrence of ACs as a register feature. This register
perspective on text types is justified by the fact that our textual focus is on text
excerpts (rather than whole texts), and that we are viewing ACs as a lexicogram-
matical feature whose frequency reflects the extent to which it marks a situational
context (e.g. formal discourse) or to which it serves a communicative purpose (e.g.
narrative function) (cf. Biber & Conrad 2009: 16, 151).11
5.	 Data and methodology
5.1	 Corpus-based research
Our study of the (changing) distribution of ACs across registers in ModE and PDE
is corpus-based. For EModE and LModE, two Penn Corpora of Historical English
were used: the Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Early Modern English (PPCEME;
1500‒1710; 1,737,853 words) and the Penn Parsed Corpus of Modern British English
(PPCMBE; 1700‒1914; 948, 895 words), respectively.12 Additional texts came from
(i) a small poetry corpus we compiled ourselves (82,867 words for EModE and
81,951 words for LModE), as this register is absent from the PENN corpora, and
(ii) direct speech excerpts totalling 211,037 words from the Old Bailey corpus
(Huber et al. 2012), which we treated as representative of LModE (near-)spoken
language. 3480 ACs were retrieved for EModE, 241 of which were with-augment-
ed, and 2153 ACs for LModE, 475 of which were with-augmented. Instances from
the Penn corpora were retrieved making use of the corpora’s own parsing system,
which singles out ACs as a separate type of construction. Hence, the number of
false hits was limited to the occasional parsing errors. Retrieval from the self-­
compiled poetry corpus and from the Old Bailey Corpus was manual.
11.	 Biber & Conrad (2009: 16) distinguish the register perspective of text types from the genre
and style perspective. The genre perspective is defined as the study of linguistic characteristics
that are used to structure complete texts and often occur only once in a text; these characteristics
are often conventional rather than functional. The style perspective focuses on lexicogrammati-
cal features in text types that are not necessarily functional but may be “preferred because they
are aesthetically valued” (2009: 16).
12.	 Note that the overlap of ten years between the EModE and LModE period is due to an
overlap in the corpora themselves.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
For PDE, ACs were retrieved from the British National Corpus (BNC; period
1985‒1994) as well as from the Leuven Drama Corpus (1969‒1971).13 Since these
corpora had no specific parsing for ACs, retrieval was manual by reading extensive
excerpts from either corpus; this resulted in a total of 3,611,088 words for PDE
containing 3,984 ACs, 1,760 of which were with-augmented.14
5.2	 Register categories
As Biber and Conrad (2009: 10) point out, registers can be identified on various
levels of specificity, whereby there is not one correct level, but rather, where the
specificity of register categories depends on the goals of the study at hand. The
register categories for the present study, then, meet the following concerns. First of
all, register categories will not be too specific, so that they represent sufficiently
large amounts of text material to allow valid generalizations (see Biber & Conrad
2009: 11), as well as statistically significant analyses.
Secondly, “because a register analysis seeks to characterize a variety of language
‒ not a particular text or an individual writer’s style ‒ it must be based on analysis of
a sample of texts selected to represent the register as fully as possible” (Biber &
Conrad 2009: 10). This principle was adhered to when manually selecting texts
from the BNC. For example, for the written register ‘fiction’, texts were selected
representing various subgenres and intended audience levels; that is, high-brow lit-
erature as well as detectives and romances were included. For spoken English, this
approach translated into the incorporation of texts from each subtype of spoken
language offered in the BNC. With respect to the Penn corpora, the compilers’ se-
lection of texts per register was relied on as representative. Penn’s register categories
were, however, re-assigned to the categories used in the present study (see below).
Thirdly, since our text data were taken from various corpora, a corpus-specific
register categorization was avoided; rather, our categorization was set up such that
text data with the same characteristics (but possibly assigned to different register
categories across corpora) would be subsumed under the same category label.
With these general considerations in mind, the following eight register catego-
ries were used: drama, science and handbooks, religion, fiction, law, narrative
13.	 Drama texts from the Leuven Drama Corpus were added to the selections from the BNC, as
the latter only contained one relevant drama text.
14.	 Making use of the part-of-speech tagging of the BNC would only have allowed broad
searches (e.g. noun phrase + -ing form); this would have resulted in a disproportionately high
number of spurious hits (over 90%), which would be even higher if ACs that have one or more
elements in between the subject and predicate were to be included. Further, while slow, this ap-
proach has the advantage of offering a better understanding of the context of each AC and the
precise nature of each text type.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
non-fiction, poetry, spoken language. All categories except the last one are pro-
duced in the written mode.
5.2.1	 Drama
Drama is a “speech-purposed” text type “designed to be articulated orally” (Culpeper
& Kytö 2010: 17). As its origin is in writing, it takes up a position in between speech
and writing. For ModE, this category consists of the texts in the Penn corpora from
the ‘drama, comedy’ section. The PDE texts contain one play from the BNC and
several texts from the KU Leuven drama corpus. The texts selected include stage di-
rections. Note that in keeping with the speech-related nature of this text type, no
drama texts were included for PDE whose English was unusually archaic or formal.
5.2.2	 Science and handbooks
For ModE, this category consists of the text types ‘handbook’, ‘science, other’, ‘sci-
ence, medicine’ and ‘educational treatises’ from the Penn corpora, while for PDE it
comprises the different types of academic texts of the BNC including texts on arts,
humanities (with the exception of historical accounts), medicine, natural science,
social science and engineering. This category is admittedly broad, but all texts can
be subsumed under the label ‘academic prose’, in that they can be characterized as
written language that has been carefully produced and edited, addressed to a large
number of readers who are separated in time and space from the author, and with
the primary communicative purpose of presenting information about some topic
(Biber & Conrad 2009: 32).
5.2.3	 Religion
Texts dealing with religious issues include, for ModE, the bible texts and sermons
from Penn, as well as its philosophy section; because of their Latin-based tradition
and Christian orientation, philosophical texts were considered to be more similar
to the religious texts than to any other category. For PDE, all texts marked by the
BNC as ‘religious’ were included (their topical variety is, however, higher than in
Penn).
5.2.4	 Fiction
The characteristic shared by the texts in this category is that they tell a story of
sorts. According to Biber and Conrad (2009: 138), fiction is one of the most com-
plex register varieties “because the author must create a fictional world and can
choose to describe that world from many different possible perspectives”. For
ModE, this category contains the ‘fiction’ section of the Penn corpora; for PDE, a
selection was made from BNC texts labelled ‘w_fict_prose’, making sure that dif-
ferent subgenres and audience levels were equally represented.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
5.2.5	 Law
For ModE, this register category contains mostly statutes (i.e. the ‘law’ category
from Penn). For PDE, it consists of various types of legal texts and documents
such as decisions in the House of Lords, the Privy Council, the Supreme Court of
Judicature, Assize Courts and Ecclesiastical Courts and textbooks/handbooks
dealing specifically with laws and regulations – all are texts with a high intended
audience level.15 In general, legal discourse is highly specialized, often containing
archaic formulations.
5.2.6	 Narrative non-fiction
This text category consists of texts that have the primary communicative purpose
of narrating certain events such as: historical accounts,16 newspaper reports, biog-
raphies, travelogues, diary entries, letters and non-business related emails.17 For
ModE, this means that the following Penn categories were incorporated: ‘Biogra-
phy, autobiography’, ‘Biography, other’, ‘Diary, private’, ‘History’, ‘Letters, non-pri-
vate’, ‘Letters, private’, ‘Travelogue’ and the ‘Trial proceedings’, which in Penn are
rather narrative and descriptive in nature. For PDE, the various subsections of the
‘newspaper’ (w_newsp) category from the BNC were taken up, as well as the cat-
egory ‘biography’, historical texts from the category ‘w_non_ac_humanities_arts’,
emails and personal and professional letters. What these texts share is that they all
make frequent use of narrative linguistic features such as past tense verbs, third
person pronouns, adverbials of time and place etc. (Biber & Conrad 2009: 150).
5.2.7	 Poetry
Poetry is characterized by the fact that the physical arrangement of text on the
page is part of the creative effect and that meaning relationships are often con-
structed from the physical juxtaposition of words and lines, rather than through
the use of complete sentences (Biber & Conrad 2009: 20). As the Penn corpora do
not contain a poetry section, we compiled our own small poetry corpus, which
consists of work by twenty-one different authors for EModE and fifteen different
authors for LModE. In so doing, we were careful to select a variety of subtypes such
as odes, hymns and sonnets. For PDE the ‘poetry’ section of the BNC was used.
15.	 As indicated by the BNC annotations; we selected these texts to maintain the homogeneity
of the text type.
16.	 It may be surprising that this subtype is not subsumed under ‘science and handbooks’, but
it has been observed that textbooks in disciplines with a focus on the past (i.e. especially history)
rely heavily on narrative discourse (Biber & Conrad 2009: 244). Hence these texts fit in better
with the category ‘narrative non-fiction’.
17.	 Letters were first looked at separately, but their use of ACs did not differ substantially from
the other texts in this category. Hence, they were grouped with them.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
5.2.8	 Spoken language
For LModE, this category consists solely of the sections of direct speech (indi-
cated by special tags in the annotation), taken from the Old Bailey corpus.18
For PDE, this category contains samples of the various spoken language sub-
categories in the BNC.19 As such, in spite of their sharing the same mode or
channel, the texts in this category are rather varied. Still, this seems unprob-
lematic in that spoken language, however varied, shares a set of linguistic
features which sufficiently sets them apart from the written mode (see Biber
& Conrad 2009: 245, 262).
Tables 1 and 2 provide a word count by text type for each period.
Table 1.  Word count by register for the EModE and LModE period.
Register Number of words EModE Number of words LModE
Religious writing 310,725 115,728
Fiction 112,438   65,626
Law 115,621   65,748
Narrative non-fiction 754,972 417,463
Science and handbooks 334,019 204,992
Drama 110,078   70,338
Poetry   82,867   81,951
Near spoken English / 211,037
Table 2.  Word count by register for the PDE period.
Register Number of words
Religious writing 931,123
Fiction 469,583
Law 344,408
Narrative non-fiction 743,684
Science and handbooks 479,355
Drama 159,777
Poetry 142,234
Spoken English 340,924
18.	 The excerpts considered are from the years 1733, 1755, 1777, 1800, 1841 and 1881.
19.	 This includes broadcasts (discussions, documentary and news), classroom English, con-
sults, conversations, courtroom language, demonstrations, interviews, lectures on various top-
ics, meetings, parliament discussion, public debates, sermons, scripted and unscripted speeches,
live sports and tutorials.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
5.3	 Factors determining ACs’ register distribution
We then categorize the registers just discussed in terms of the dimensions/factors
proposed in the literature (see Section 3) as determining the AC’s (changing) reg-
ister distribution. These are:
‒	 formal vs. informal
‒	 narrative vs. non-narrative20
‒	 literary/depictive vs. non-literary/non-depictive
Quirk et al. (1985: 26) define formal language use as proceeding from speakers
formal (i.e. relatively stiff, cold, polite, impersonal) attitude to the hearer, the topic
or the purpose of communication; conversely, informal language use proceeds from
an attitude which is relatively relaxed, warm, rude, or friendly. Actually, they recog-
nize a gradient in attitude between formal and informal, with neutral language use
in between. On this view, the register categories ‘law’ and ‘science and handbooks’
represent the most formal categories, while ‘spoken language’ represents the most
informal category. Admittedly, the degree of formality within spoken language is
not constant, but spoken language is still generally less formal than written lan-
guage because, as Quirk et al. (1985: 25) state, “writers tend to [write] more con-
cisely as well as more carefully and elegantly than they may choose to speak”.
Narrative texts can be defined as those texts that are in some respect telic in
nature in that they ‘tell a story’ structured along the line of a progressing event (with
a starting point and a more or less defined end point). Circumstantial information
such as the causes or goals of certain actions are provided in varying degrees of
detail, and actions are situated in time and space. Examples of narrative register
categories are ‘fiction’ and various types of ‘narrative non-fiction’: biographies
(which tell the story of someone’s life), letters (which tell about events in someone’s
life), newspaper reports (which report on important ongoing or recent events) and
historical accounts (which retell historical events). Poetry is not regarded as a nar-
rative register because the descriptive detail it provides about contexts, moods and
feelings is primary to any narrative detail (even in narrative types of poetry).
Finally, literary texts are essentially depictive in nature, in that they invoke a
made-up world in all its aspects for readers to reconstruct in their imagination.
Texts of this type contain a high level of descriptive detail encoded through longer
than average sentences displaying a considerable variation in vocabulary and syn-
tax. On this definition, fiction and poetry can be subsumed under the heading
20.	 While the dimensions ‘narrative vs. non-narrative’ and ‘depictive vs. non-depictive’ play an
important role in Kortmann’s (1991, 1995) discussion of ACs, they have not been carefully de-
fined. In our definitions, we have therefore relied on the way these notions were operationalized
in Kortmann’s (1991, 1995) studies.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
Table 3.  Classification of register categories in terms of dimensions proposed
as accounting for ACs’ register distribution.
Register Degree of formality Narrative or
non-narrative
Literary or
non-literary
Religious writing Medium Non-narrative Non-literary
Fiction Medium Narrative Literary
Law High Non-narrative Non-literary
Narrative non-fiction Medium Narrative Non-literary
Science and handbooks High Non-narrative Non-literary
Drama Low Non-narrative Non-literary
Poetry Medium Non-narrative Literary
Spoken English Low Non-narrative Non-literary
‘literary’. Note that drama texts, while in essence a literary genre and hence ‘part of
literature’, have not been classified as ‘literary’; because they essentially consist of
direct speech (in addition to concise stage directions), and as such are farther re-
moved from the characteristics typical of depictive/literary language use.
With this information in mind, we are now able to classify each of the register
categories in terms of the dimensions discussed; this classification is represented
in Table 3.
6.	 The results
6.1	 Factors influencing the AC distribution
Let us first take a look at Figure 1, which presents an overview of the number of
ACs (both augmented and unaugmented variants) per register for EModE, LModE
and PDE.
In identifying the factor(s) responsible for the (changing) distribution of ACs,
we will, per period, investigate the importance (weight) of each of the dimensions
in terms of which the register categories can be characterized (degree of formality,
degree of narrativeness, literary character (see above)). Change, then, can be read
off from a comparison of the periods.
How do we investigate the importance of a factor/dimension? We will
examine the distributional behaviour of ACs across the individual register cat-
egories; as well, we will examine their distributional behaviour in terms of ag-
gregate figures.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0,00
Religious
writing
Normalized
frequency
n
=
100,000
EModE
Fiction Law Narrative
non-fiction
Science
and
handbooks
Drama Poetry Spoken
language
50,00
100,00
150,00
200,00
250,00
300,00
350,00
400,00
LModE
PDE
40,55
63,94
65,51
190,33
132,57
240,85
374,50
215,98
29,62
264,91
242,42
107,57
158,07
207,81
92,21
68,13
92,41
143,95
125,50
195,24
315,68
no data
54,85
64,53
Figure 1.  The distribution of ACs (both augmented and unaugmented) across the various
registers in EModE, LModE and PDE (frequencies are normalized per 100,000 words).
If a dimension is crucial in explaining AC frequency in a particular period, each of
the register categories subsumed under one value of that dimension will ideally
have a higher/lower AC frequency than the categories subsumed under the com-
plementary value of that dimension. For instance, for the value ‘formal’ (i.e. high/
medium formality) to significantly correlate with (or, predict) high AC frequency
in a particular period, the register categories labelled as ‘formal’ will each have a
higher AC frequency than the register categories labelled as ‘informal’ (low for-
mality). Let us check if this is indeed the case for EModE and PDE ‒ we will focus
on EModE and PDE to facilitate diachronic comparison.
In EModE, except for the register category ‘religion’, each of the high/medium
formality categories has a higher AC frequency than the low formality one (‘dra-
ma’). The category ‘religion’ is an exception because, being a (medium) formal
category, it has the lowest AC frequency. In PDE, the picture is less clear-cut: four
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
categories of high/medium formality (‘religion’, ‘law’, ‘narrative non-fiction’, ‘sci-
ence and handbooks’) have a lower AC frequency than the low formality one ‘dra-
ma’. This does not necessarily mean that low formality is the condition favouring
higher AC frequency, because the formal categories ‘poetry’ and ‘fiction’ each have
higher AC frequencies than ‘drama’.
What this suggests is that, in EModE, high/medium formality indeed predicts
high AC frequencies across registers, but that this predictive power has substan-
tially decreased in PDE (p<0.001). The aggregate figures in Figure 2 confirm this:21
while the high/medium formality categories in EModE show a normalized fre-
quency of 199.05, the low formality one has 68.13. In PDE, these figures are re-
spectively 113.62 and 89.87; in other words, while in EModE, there is a marked
preference for ACs to occur in high/medium formality registers, in PDE ACs are
distributed far more evenly between formal and informal registers. This is further
corroborated by Figure 3, which breaks up AC frequency data into the three levels
of formality presented in Table 1. As Figure 3 shows, while in EModE, high for-
mality register categories outranked medium and low formality ones, in PDE, they
showed the lowest AC frequency (66.03 versus 89.87 and 130.76 for low and me-
dium formality registers, respectively).22
Let us now consider the dimension ‘narrativeness’. In EModE, the narrative
registers (‘fiction’ and ‘narrative non-fiction’) each show higher AC frequencies
than the non-narrative categories (except for ‘law’, which has the highest AC fre-
quency of all). In other words, as with high/medium formality, an important
correlation can be observed between high degree of narrativeness and high AC
frequency. In PDE, the picture is again less clear: ‘narrative non-fiction’ shows a
lower AC frequency than several non-narrative categories (drama, poetry);23 ‘fic-
tion’, on the other hand, has a higher AC frequency than most non-narrative
21.	 The aggregate figures in Figures 2‒5 have not been computed by averaging the normalized
AC frequencies of the register categories subsumed under a particular dimension (formality,
narrativeness, literariness), but they have been calculated afresh; that is, by adding up the raw
frequencies of the ACs occurring in the relevant register categories of a particular dimension,
and normalizing to 100,000.
22.	 Importantly, spoken English in PDE not only contains more ACs than one would expect
based on the available literature (Kisbye 1971: 43; Quirk et al. 1985: 1120) but the ACs in this
register category are also almost equally productive as in the written registers (94% of the spo-
ken ACs are productive, versus 96% of the written ones for PDE as based on a preliminary count
using MI scores).
23.	 In fact, Figure 1 shows that both ‘narrative non-fiction’ and ‘science and handbooks’ show
a decline in AC frequency. This evolution not only reflects the decreasing frequency of ACs in
formal registers in general, but may also be linked to the gradual loss of depictive/literary quali-
ties observed in each of these register categories (which, in recent times, have employed a more
objective and neutral writing style in relating true information or true events).
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0,00
EModE LModE PDE
50,00
100,00
150,00
200,00
250,00
Normalized
frequency
n
=
100,000
Formal (High + Medium formality)
Informal (Low formality)
199,05
68,13
199,79
86,01
113,62
89,87
Figure 2.  AC frequency across formal and informal registers.
0,00
EModE LModE PDE
50,00
100,00
150,00
200,00
250,00
Normalized
frequency
n
=
100,000
High formality (Law science)
Medium formality (Religion+fiction
+narrative non-fiction+narrative+poetry
Low formality (Drama + (near) spoken)
213,73
193,81
209,80
195,81
66,04
130,76
68,13 86,01 89,87
Figure 3.  AC frequency by registers’ degree of formality: more detailed breakup.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
0,00
EModE LModE PDE
50,00
100,00
150,00
200,00
250,00
300,00
Normalized
frequency
n
=
100,000
Narrative (Fiction +
narrative non-fiction)
Non-narrative
255,24
132,80
227,49
140,57
159,16
166,15
Figure 4.  AC frequency across narrative and non-narrative registers.
registers (except poetry).24 In other words, both narrative registers seem to be go-
ing in opposite directions. These observations are, again, in keeping with the ag-
gregate figures. For EModE, Figure 4 shows a markedly higher AC frequency in
the narrative registers than for non-narrative ones, while ACs in PDE narrative
registers and non-narrative registers are almost evenly distributed. This change is
statistically highly significant, p<0.001.
Finally, let us consider the dimension ‘literariness’. In EModE, AC frequencies
of the literary categories ‘poetry’ and ‘fiction’ are superseded by those of several
non-literary categories (‘law’, ‘narrative non-fiction’). In PDE, however, AC frequen-
cies for each of the literary categories are higher than any of the other, non-literary,
categories. Turning to the aggregate figures (Figure 5), we can observe that while
24.	 The somewhat surprising dip between EModE and PDE (see Figure 1) may be related to the
personal style of the authors included in the respective corpora. Indeed, when comparing the
fiction texts within the fiction category, substantial differences in AC frequency emerge between
authors. This suggests that AC frequency should not only be solely linked to register but also to
personal stylistic preferences. For example, the BNC excerpt from the fictional text ‘Coffin in
fashion’ (39,364 words) contains 67 ACs, i.e. a normalized frequency of 170.2 per 100,000 words,
whereas in the excerpt from ‘The Prince of Darkness’ (44,495), 181 ACs are attested: a normal-
ized frequency of 406.8, more than double that of the other text.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0,00
EModE LModE PDE
50,00
100,00
150,00
200,00
250,00
300,00
Normalized
frequency
n
=
100,000
Literary (fiction + poetry)
Non-literary
162,82
194,53
167,37
175,62
258,25
80,15
Figure 5.  AC frequency across literary and non-literary registers.
literary and non-literary registers had an almost even distribution in EModE,
the dimension ‘literariness’ has become predictive of the distribution of ACs in
PDE, in that the value ‘literary’ significantly correlates with high AC frequency
(p < 0.001).
In EModE, the dimensions ‘formality’ and ‘narrativeness’ each have a value
(‘high/medium formality’ and ‘narrative’, respectively) favouring high AC fre-
quency, and can thus be said to be good predictors of AC distribution. The dimen-
sion ‘literariness’ shows a (largely) balanced AC distribution, and therefore cannot
predict whether an AC is likely to occur in the literary or in the non-literary regis-
ters. In PDE, the dimension/factor ‘literary vs. non-literary’ is clearly the one that
best predicts AC distribution as the value ‘literary’ correlates with high AC fre-
quency. Further, when comparing the three dimensions, we can observe that in
EModE, the dimension ‘formality’ is a better predictor of AC distribution than
‘narrativeness’ because ACs in high/medium formal registers assume 74.5% of all
ACs, while ACs in narrative registers only take up 65%; these proportions are, of
course, substantially higher than in the ‘literariness’ dimension, where ACs are
more or less evenly distributed over the two values (45.56% vs. 54.44%). In PDE,
however, the distribution of ACs is best predicted by the ‘literariness’ dimension,
with the condition ‘literary’ assuming 76.31% of all ACs.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
We can conclude that the factors determining the distribution of ACs across
register categories have clearly changed over the years. In EModE, this distribution
can most reliably be captured in terms of the dimension ‘formality’, and in the
second instance, also in terms of the dimension ‘narrativeness’: ACs occur 2.92
times as frequently in registers of high/medium formality as in low formality reg-
isters; ACs in non-narrative registers are outranked by narrative registers by a fac-
tor of 1.92. In PDE, AC distribution can best be predicted in terms of the dimen-
sion‘literariness’:ACsinliterarycategoriesoutrankthoseinnon-literarycategories
by a factor of 3.22.
6.2	 Augmentation versus register
In this section, we attempt to establish whether there exists a correlation between
the frequency of augmented ACs in a text and the register category the text be-
longs to.
Let us first consider Figure 6, which details the distribution of augmented and
unaugmented ACs across the various registers in EModE. For all register catego-
ries combined, unaugmented ACs (89%) far outnumber with-augmented ACs
(7%)25. Note that with-ACs are somewhat more common in the text types ‘fiction’
(12%), ‘poetry’ (20%) and ‘drama’ (28%). This relatively higher frequency of with-
ACs in ‘drama’ seems to suggest a preference for (near-)spoken discourse.26.
By LModE (Figure 7), with-ACs have gained in frequency (from 7% of the
total number of ACs in EModE to 22% in LModE; p<0.001), but are still outnum-
bered by unaugmented ACs in every written register category. As in EModE, the
written categories ‘drama’ (23%), ‘fiction’ (31%) and ‘poetry’ (32%) are the ones
with the highest relative proportion of augmented ACs. In keeping with the rela-
tively higher incidence of with-ACs already observed in EModE speech-purposed
drama texts, with-ACs are significantly more frequent (p<0.001) in the direct
speech excerpts from the Old Bailey Corpus than in written English and make up
almost 62% of the ACs attested in this register.
By PDE (Figure 8), the share of with-ACs has, again, considerably increased
(p < 0.001 in the accompanying χ²-test, from a 22% share of all ACs to a 44%
share). Surprisingly, ‘poetry’ (26%) and ‘fiction’ (25%), two of the text types with
the highest overall AC frequency in PDE (Figure 1), and the highest share of aug-
mented ACs in ModE (Figures 6 and 7) show, in PDE, the strongest preference for
the prototypical unaugmented variant.
25.	 The remaining 4% consist of augmented ACs with an augmentor different from with.
26.	 77% of the EModE ACs in the register category ‘drama’ were attested in speech excerpts.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0%
Religious
writing
Fiction Narrative
non-fiction
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
With-augmented
Unaugmented
5
120
25
187
Law
22
335
117
1821
Science and
handbooks
31
484
Drama
21
54
Poetry
20
82
10%
Figure 6.  The distribution of with-augmented and unaugmented ACs across register
categories in EModE.27
ThehypothesizedpreferenceforaugmentedACsinspokenlanguageuse(Section4)
is again borne out by the PDE data: augmented with­
-ACs take up a share of 43% of
all ACs in the written varieties, while they take up 65% in the spoken register
(Figure 9). The accompanying χ²-test, moreover, reveals that the observed bias for
augmentation in the spoken language is highly statistically significant (p < 0.001)
despite being slightly less marked than in LModE (where with-augmented ACs
take up 18% of all ACs in written language versus 62% in (near-)spoken language
(Figure 10)). The comparably high frequency of augmented ACs in spoken lan-
guage can be readily explained when keeping in mind that augmented ACs can be
processed more easily than unaugmented ACs. Indeed, the augmentor, the AC’s
introductory preposition, establishes a clear syntactic link with the matrix clause,
almost functioning as a conjunction (Berent 1975; Kortmann 1995). This addi-
tional syntactic clarity is especially useful in spoken language where speakers can-
not simply return to a previous part of the discourse when something has not been
properly understood.
27.	 As other types of augmented ACs (i.e. those with an augmentor other than with) represent
only a minority of the data (together they account for about 4% of the ACs in EModE and less
than 1% of the ACs in LModE), they are not included in Figures 2‒4.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
0%
Religious
writing
Fiction Narrative
non-fiction
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
With-augmented
Unaugmented
2
71
27
60
Law
2
128
174
837
Science
and
handbooks
88
337
Drama
16
49
Poetry (Near-)
spoken
language
51
109
115
71
10%
Figure 7.  The distribution of with-augmented and unaugmented ACs across register
categories in LModE.	
0%
Religious
writing
Fiction Narrative
non-fiction
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
With-augmented
Unaugmented
294
312
283
845
Law
38
62
540
247
Science
and
handbooks
264
176
Drama
84
146
Poetry Spoken
language
117
332
142
76
10%
Figure 8.  The distribution of with-augmented and unaugmented ACs across register
categories in PDE.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0%
Written Spoken
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
10%
With-augmented
Unaugmented
1620
2120
142
76
Figure 9.  The distribution of with-augmented and unaugmented ACs across written
and spoken language in PDE.
0%
Written (Near-) spoken
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
10%
With-augmented
Unaugmented
360
1591
115
71
Figure 10.  The distribution of with-augmented and unaugmented ACs across written
and spoken language in LModE.
6.3	 The register distribution of predicate types
When considering the distribution of the different predicate types across the vari-
ous registers, we can observe that most EModE text types (Figure 11) display a
clear preference for present participle predicates (almost 50% of all ACs). Past par-
ticiple predicates (21%) are the second most frequent structural type. This result is
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
not particularly remarkable since present and past participles are the oldest types
of AC predicates in English,28 and as such of all subtypes the most entrenched. In
addition, the preference for present participle predicate ACs may have been fur-
ther intensified because of similarity with other -ing-constructions such as ger-
unds and free adjuncts (Kohnen 1996: 169) which were gaining in frequency in
EModE.
Another striking observation is the high frequency of infinitive predicate
ACs in the register category ‘law’. Whereas infinitive predicates are relatively in-
frequent in all the other registers (3%), this predicate type constitutes a large
proportion of the ACs for ‘law’ (40%) and is, not unexpectedly, its highest fre-
quency predicate type. As this type of AC is seldom used in other registers and
appears rather formulaic and old fashioned, its high frequency in legal texts is
probably due to the rather archaic and highly formal nature of the language use
in this text type. This result underscores Kortmann’s (1988: 67) remark that ACs
with infinitive predicates are heavily stylistically marked in comparison to the
other structural varieties.
In LModE (Figure 12), a drastic reduction of past participle predicates oc-
curred in the register category ‘law’ (from 32% in EModE to 17% in LModE), so
that infinitive predicates became even more prominent (their share increased from
39% in EModE to 49% in LModE). Prepositional phrase predicates gained ground
in most registers (their overall share increased from 9% in EModE to 18% in
LModE). The distribution of ACs across the other predicate types remains rather
stable (compared to the EModE period).
In the PDE period (Figure 13), present participles retain their position as most
frequent predicate type (50%). In addition, while all previously available predicate
types are still in use, infinitive predicates underwent a statistically highly significant
decrease in frequency (p<0.001). As a very large portion of the ACs of the text vari-
ety ‘law’ are precisely these highly stylistically marked infinitive ACs, the dramatic
decrease in frequency of infinitive predicates may be immediately connected to the
steep decline in AC frequency for this register (Figure 1). The overall frequency of
prepositional phrase predicates has increased slightly further (18% to 21%).
We can conclude that the distribution of predicate types across the various
registers of English is rather stable over time. A marked preference for present
participle predicates remains constant across all three periods (49%, 42% and 50%
respectively) and only prepositional phrase predicates show a noticeable increase
in relative frequency over time (from 8% over 18% to 21%). The only predicate
type that displays a distinct connection to a specific text type is the infinitive
28.	 Only present participle predicates and past participle predicates have been attested for the
Old English period (Mitchell 1985: 918).
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0%
Religious
writing
Fiction Narrative
non-fiction
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
Indirect question
Present participle
PrepP
Perfective participle
Past participle
NP
Inf
AdvP
AdjP
0
66
15
5
13
4
1
0
12
1
133
26
13
28
1
3
1
8
0
120
6
1
139
0
167
0
0
0
1084
190
88
380
56
53
18
131
0
267
29
7
121
13
19
13
59
0
32
11
1
30
9
4
5
12
0
19
19
0
13
5
3
2
14
Law Science and
handbooks
Poetry Drama
10%
Figure 11.  Distribution of different predicate types of ACs across the various register
categories in EModE.
predicate, which used to be highly common in ModE legal texts but is rarely used
in the other registers. In PDE, this predicate type occurs seldom (1%). This con-
nection to the register category ‘law’ makes infinitive predicate ACs the only type
of AC that can be specifically associated with highly formal and stylistically marked
language use across all three periods.
7.	 Conclusion
The following conclusions can be drawn from the preceding analysis. Whereas in
the OE period, the AC appears to be mostly limited to learned, Latinate contexts,
it has diffused to all the written text types in the periods investigated, as well as to
the spoken language. However, the paths of diffusion have not remained constant
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
0%
Religious
writing
Fiction Narrative
non-fiction
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
Present participle
PrepP
Perfective participle
Past participle
NP
Inf
AdvP
AdjP
47
5
3
10
5
1
0
3
46
22
2
12
1
0
0
4
43
2
1
21
3
70
0
2
466
140
63
131
40
8
22
142
208
61
19
47
14
7
7
63
31
28
1
60
7
0
8
25
12
24
0
15
4
1
2
7
57
99
5
9
2
1
11
3
Law Science
and
handbooks
Poetry Drama (Near-)
spoken
language
10%
Figure 12.  Distribution of different predicate types of ACs across the various register
categories in LModE.
over time. In EModE, the distribution of ACs across register categories is best
predicted by the dimensions ‘formality’ and ‘narrativeness’. In particular, formal
and, in the second instance, narrative registers are seen to favour high AC fre-
quency (conversely, informal and non-narrative registers correlate with low AC
frequency). On the other hand, the distribution of ACs across literary and non-
literary registers is fairly balanced, and thus neither literary nor non-literary regis-
ters seem to particularly favour, or disfavour, ACs. By PDE, distribution patterns
have substantially changed: whereas in EModE, the dimension ‘literariness’ did
not show a preference for ACs to occur in a particular register, it is now the literary
registers, along with the medium formal ones, which most clearly favour ACs, and
thus best predict the distribution of ACs. Then again, the ‘narrativeness’ dimen-
sion has become less successful as a predictor, in that it shows a balanced distribu-
tion of ACs across its registers.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
0%
Religious
writing
Fiction Narrative
non-fiction
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
90%
80%
100%
Present participle
PrepP
Perfective participle
Past participle
NP
Inf
AdvP
AdjP
275
119
5
108
15
9
29
50
435
228
5
260
15
4
30
154
59
8
7
13
2
4
0
9
284
215
7
141
17
20
52
64
281
56
5
62
13
1
3
21
137
74
1
118
20
1
36
62
81
62
0
45
5
2
17
18
81
71
1
20
6
5
33
3
Law Science
and
handbooks
Poetry Drama Spoken
language
10%
Figure 13.  Distribution of different predicate types of ACs across the various register
categories in PDE.
Regardless of these general tendencies, important differences in AC use can be
observed between the authors within a single register in the same period. This is
an indication that the frequency of ACs in a given text is probably also to a consid-
erable degree dependent on personal stylistic preferences. Further, the gradual in-
crease of ACs in drama texts over the three periods and the presence of ACs in
PDE spoken language, show that even though the AC is first and foremost a fea-
ture of written English, it is more prominently present in informal and or spoken
language than can be expected based on the literature (which still largely assigns
ACs to the written language). Indeed, the very fact that ACs occur in speech, which
is the basic mode of communication and unlike writing an inherent part of the
abilities that define us as human beings (Biber & Conrad 2009: 260), means that
ACs can be considered a thoroughly ingrained part of our grammar.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
With-augmentation was shown to be overall on the increase (from a mere 7%
of all ACs in EModE to 44% in PDE) and a feature typical of spoken English. In-
deed, augmentation may have been the trigger needed for the construction to fully
establish itself in the spoken register, as the augmented variant is often considered
the more easily processable of the two AC types (Berent 1975, Kortmann 1995).
With regard to the distribution of predicate types over the different registers, the
only striking feature was the comparatively high frequency of infinitive predicate
ACs in legal texts. In all other registers, except for drama, and across the three peri-
ods, present participle predicate ACs are by far the most frequently used subtype
(49%, 42% and 50% in each of the three periods, respectively). In addition, the AC
maintained its structural versatility in that no predicate types were lost over time.
Sources
Biber, D. & Conrad, S. 2009. Register, Genre, and Style. Cambridge: CUP.
BNC: The British National Corpus, later part 20th century, 100 m words. Department of Linguis-
tics, University of Oxford. <http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/corpus/index.xml? ID=intro> (23
October 2012)
Helsinki Corpus of English Texts: Diachronic and Dialectal, 750‒1700, 3rd edn, 1.5m words. De-
partment of English, University of Helsinki. <http://icame.uib.no/ hc/>
PPCEME: The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Early Modern English, 1500‒1710, 1st edn, 1.7 m
words. Department of Linguistics, University of Pennsylvania. CD-ROM. <http://www.
ling.upenn.edu/hist-corpora/>
PPCMBE: The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Modern British English, 1700‒1914, 1st edn, 1 m
words. Department of Linguistics, University of Pennsylvania. CD-ROM <http://www.ling.
upenn.edu/hist-corpora>
References
Bauer, B. 2000. Archaic Syntax in Indo-European. The Spread of Transitivity in Latin and French.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110825992
Berent, G.P. 1973. Absolute constructions as ‘subordinate clauses’. In You Take the High Node and
I’ll Take the Low Node: Papers from the Comparative Syntax Festival, C. Corum, T. Smith-
Stark & A. Weiser (eds), 147‒154. Chicago IL: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Berent, G.P. 1975. English absolutes in functional perspective. In Papers from the Parasession on
Functionalism. A Paravolume to Papers from the Eleventh Regional Meeting of the Chicago
Linguistic Society¸ R. E. Grossman & J. L. San (eds), 10‒33. Chicago IL: Chicago Linguistic
Society.
Callaway, M. 1889. The absolute participle in Anglo-Saxon. The American Journal of Philology
10: 316‒345.
	 The diffusion of English absolutes	 
Callaway, M. 1918. Studies in the Syntax of the Lindisfarne Gospels. With Appendices on Some
Idioms in the Germanic Languages. Baltimore MD: The Johns Hopkins Press. <http://www.
archive.org/stream/studiesinsyntaxo00calluoft#page/8/mode/2up> (20 March 2010).
Culpeper, J. & Merja Kytö, M. 2010. Early Modern English Dialogues. Spoken Interaction as Writ-
ing. Cambridge: CUP.
Haspelmath, M. 1995. The converb as a cross-linguistically valid category. In Converbs in Cross-
Linguistic Perspective, M. Haspelmath & E. König (eds), 1‒55. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Huber, M., Nissel, M., Maiwald, P. & Widlitzki, B. 2012. The Old Bailey Corpus. Spoken English
in the 18th and 19th Centuries. <www.uni-giessen.de/oldbaileycorpus> (4 June 2013).
Killie, K. & Swan, T. 2009. The grammaticalization and subjectification of adverbial –ing clauses
(converb clauses) in English. English Language and Linguistics 13: 337‒363.
Kisbye, T. 1971. An Historical Outline of English Syntax. Aarhus: Akademisk Boghandel.
Kohnen, T. 1996. Ausbreitungsmuster syntaktischer Standardisierung bei derEntwicklung
Englisher Partizipialkonstruktionen (partizip präsens) 1450–1700. Anglia 114: 154‒201.
Kohnen, T. 2004. Text, Textsorte, Sprachgeschichte. Englische Partizipial- und Gerundialkonstruk-
tionen. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer.
Komen, J.H.M. 1994. Over de Ontwikkeling van Absolute Constructies. Amsterdam: Buijten en
Schipperhejn.
König, E. & van der Auwera, J. 1990. Adverbial participles, gerunds and absolute constructions
in the languages of Europe. In Toward a Typology of European Languages, J. Bechert, Giu-
liano Bernini & C. Buridant (eds), 337‒355. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783
110863178.337
Kortmann, B. 1988. Freie Adjunkte und absolute Konstruktionen im Englischen und Deutschen.
Papiere zur Linguistik 38: 61‒89.
Kortmann, B. 1991. Free Adjuncts and Absolutes in English: Problems of Control and Interpreta-
tion. London: Routledge.
Kortmann, B. 1995. Adverbial participial clauses in English. In Converbs in Cross-Linguistic Per-
spective, M. Haspelmath & E. König (eds), 189‒237. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Mitchell, B. 1985. Old English Syntax. Oxford: Clarendon. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/978019811
9357.001.0001
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G. & Svartik, J. 1985. A Comprehensive Grammar of the English
Language. London: Longman.
Río-Rey, C. 2002.Subject control and coreference in Early Modern English free adjuncts and
absolutes. English Language and Linguistics 6: 309‒323.
Ross, C.H. 1893. The absolute participle in Middle and Modern English. Publications of the
Modern Language Association of America 8: 245‒302.
Sato, K. 2009. The absolute participle construction in Old English: AElfric’s exploitation of the
Latinate syntax in his vernacular prose. English Studies 90: 2‒16.
Sørensen, K. 1967. Latin influence on English syntax: A survey with a bibliography. Travaux du
Cercle Linguistique de Copenhague 11: 131‒155.
Stump, G.T. 1985. The Semantic Variability of Absolute Constructions. Dordrecht: Reidel. DOI:
10.1007/978-94-009-5277-5
Timofeeva, O. 2008. Translating the Texts where et verborum ordo mysterium est: Late Old
English Idiom vs. ablatives absolutus. The Journal of Medieval Latin 18: 217‒229.
Timofeeva, O. 2010. Non-finite Constructions in Old English, with Special Reference to Syntactic
Borrowing from Latin [Mémoires de la Société Néophilologique de Helsinki 80]. Helsinki:
Société Néophilologique.
	 Nikki van de Pol and Hubert Cuyckens
Timofeeva, O. 2012. Latin absolute constructions and their Old English equivalents: Interfaces
between form and information structure. In Information Structure and Syntactic Change in
the History of English, A. Meurman-Solin, M.J. López-Couso & B. Los (eds), 228‒242.
Oxford: OUP. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199860210.003.0010
van de Pol, N. 2010. The Absolute Construction in Old and Middle English: A case of Latin influ-
ence? MA thesis, University of Leuven.
van de Pol, N. 2011. Present-day English absolutes: A multiple-source construction? LOT sum-
mer school. Leuven, Belgium. 13‒24 June 2011.
van de Pol, N. & Cuyckens, H. 2013. In absolute detail: The development of English absolute
constructions from adverbial to additional-context marker. Presentation at the ICAME 34
Conference, Santiago de Compostella, 22‒26 May 2013.
Visser, F.T. 1973. An Historical Syntax of the English Language. Leiden: Brill.
It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing
The case of Norwegian learners
Hilde Hasselgård
University of Oslo
This paper examines it-clefts in five corpora representing Norwegian learners
of English, novice L1 writers of English and specialist L1 academic writing.
The comparison also concerns general argumentative writing vs. discipline-
specific writing. The frequency of it-clefts varies across the corpora. The learners
underuse clefts, but the results of the register comparison are inconclusive. The
types of clefted constituent and the choice of subordinator in the cleft clause
vary more in L1 than in L2 writing. There are also differences as to the syntactic
environments of clefts and their discourse functions. For example, the learners
overuse clefts in interrogatives in argumentative writing. In discipline-specific
writing, the learners underuse clefts in that-clauses, particularly with the
function of reporting previous research.
Keywords: it-clefts, learner English, information structure, academic writing,
argumentative writing
1.	 Introduction
This paper explores how it-clefts are used in academic papers by Norwegian learn-
ers of English and native speakers of English. The investigation is concerned with
two registers: linguistics papers and argumentative essays on more general topics.
It thus involves a cross-register comparison as well as a comparison of L1 and L2
English. Several features of it-cleft usage are studied both quantitatively and quali-
tatively: frequency of use, grammatical features and the grammatical context of
the clefts, as well as the information structure and discourse functions of the clefts.
The it-cleft has been described as a construction “whose primary function involves
information structure and discourse pragmatics” (Goldberg 2006: 62). It is thus an
apposite topic for a study of L1 and L2 writing. Very few studies exist on discourse
management in Norwegian-produced learner English (but see e.g. Hasselgård
	 Hilde Hasselgård
2009 and Rørvik 2012), and apart from Paquot et al (2013) no cross-register inves-
tigation of Norwegian learner English grammar has been carried out.
Contrastive studies of clefts in English and Norwegian have found that Eng-
lish it-clefts are less frequent than the corresponding (and formally similar)
Norwegian det-cleft (Gundel 2002; Chocholousova 2008; Mojžíšová 2009). On
that basis, Norwegian learners would be expected to overuse it-clefts. Further sup-
port for this hypothesis comes from Boström Aronsson’s (2005) study of thematic
structure in texts by Swedish learners, who were found to overuse the cleft con-
struction. This overuse correlates with Johansson’s (2002) finding that clefts are
more frequent in Swedish than in English.1 Callies (2009: 181) finds that German
learners of English overuse clefts despite the fact that the German construction
most similar to an it-cleft is not very frequent (2009: 70f). Although Hasselgård’s
(2009) study of a limited amount of texts by Norwegian learners did not uncover
any overuse of the it-cleft, it is possible that transfer from Norwegian will show up
in the larger material used for the present study.
Another hypothesis is that it-clefts will be more frequent in discipline-specific
academic writing than in argumentative essays, based on Biber et al’s finding
(1999: 961) that academic prose favours clefts more than the other registers.2
Nelson (1997) similarly finds a higher frequency in academic writing than in press
editorials; however, Collins’s (1991: 187) results are the opposite.
Boström Aronsson (2005: 104) finds that clefts used by Swedish learners of
English differ in their information structure from those of native speakers. Simi-
larly, Callies (2009: 183) finds that learners and native speakers use clefts for slight-
ly different purposes. It can thus be expected that Norwegian learners too will use
clefts that differ informationally and functionally from those of native speakers.
Furthermore, it has often been claimed in studies of learner English that even ad-
vanced learners fail to recognize genre conventions: in particular they do not mas-
ter formal registers (e.g. Gilquin & Paquot 2008). However, it may well be that
novice writers of L1 English too fail to comply with conventions for discipline-
specific academic writing, which is why a corpus of specialist texts has been
consulted (see below). In short, this study aims to explore grammatical and con-
textual features of it-clefts in a range of corpora and survey their use across the
dimensions of L1 background, register and level of expertise.
1.	 Swedish and Norwegian are similar enough to be mutually intelligible. As Swedish and
Norwegian cultures too are very similar, it is quite possible that findings for Swedish EFL learn-
ers are transferrable to a Norwegian context.
2.	 Although the argumentative essays in ICLE have been written in a university context, they
do not represent the same type of specialized academic register as discipline-specific writing
(see Biber & Conrad 2009: 32).
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
Table 1.  The structure of it-clefts.
It + be clefted constituent
[NP, PP, AdvP, Finite clause]
cleft clause
It is this type of reference that is interesting in cohesion analysis (VESPA-NO)
However it is here that the plot turns and irony sets in (BAWE)
...it is not the feminists who are the reason for worry here (ICLE-NO)
2.	 The definition and delimitation of clefts
The present study is concerned with it-clefts consisting of the pronoun it, a form
of the verb be, a focused element and a relative-like dependent clause (Biber et al.
1999: 959). The terminology adopted is shown in Table 1 and is that of e.g. Delin
& Oberlander (1995), Hedberg (2000) and Gundel (2002).
The study is limited to it-clefts with a clefted constituent plus a cleft clause in-
troduced by a subordinator (that or a wh-relativizer). As the corpora used have not
been parsed, the searches for it-clefts were lexically based, using the following
search strings:
		 it * be* [1–5 words] that/wh*
		 it is/was [1–5 words] that/wh*
		 is/was it [1–5 words] that/wh*
These search strings elicit clefts with simple and complex verb phrases in the ma-
trix clause and both declarative and interrogative clauses. Instances of the cleft-like
construction highlighting the negator not, exemplified in (1), were excluded.
	 (1)	 It is not that we can not remember characters’ names, but that minor char-
acters are often not important enough to bother about. (BNC-ling: B2X)
The cut-off point at 5 words between be and the subordinator was set arbitrarily,
for practical reasons, to make the manual sorting of the hits manageable. Examples
with more than five words between be and the subordinator were included if they
came up in the corpus searches, e.g. because the cleft constituent contained a wh-
word; see (21) below for an example.
3.	 Material and method
Several corpora have been used in order to study the use of it-clefts from a variety
of angles. Norwegian learners of English are represented in two corpora: the
Norwegian components of the International Corpus of Learner English (ICLE-NO;
see Granger et al 2009) and the Varieties of English for Specific Purposes dAtabase
	 Hilde Hasselgård
(VESPA-NO). These corpora were matched with comparable corpora of English L1
writing: the Louvain Corpus of Native English Essays (LOCNESS) and the British
Academic Written English Corpus (BAWE; see Nesi & Gardner 2012).3 While ICLE-
NO and LOCNESS contain argumentative essays of a “general” kind (typically
arguing for or against something), VESPA-NO and BAWE represent discipline-
specific academic writing by university students. The texts are course assignments
as well as term papers. Only the linguistics discipline has been selected for this study,
and only papers written by native speakers of Norwegian and English, respectively.
As mentioned above, the two sets of corpora represent slightly different
registers in terms of their degree of specialization (Biber & Conrad 2009: 32). Fur-
thermore, they differ according to the systemic-functional definition of register,
namely a configuration of field, tenor and mode. ICLE/LOCNESS differ from
VESPA/BAWE particularly in terms of field: the former are on general topics, the
latter on linguistics topics. In Halliday’s view, register is also “variety according to
use”, determined by what speakers and writers are doing with language (1985: 43).
The two sets of corpora have different communicative purposes: VESPA/BAWE
involve exposition as well as argumentation: the students write to show off their
knowledge and to argue for their views.
Finally a corpus of published linguistics papers and books was extracted from
the British National Corpus (BNC) to compare novice writers to specialists within
the field of linguistics.4 The main features of the corpora are summarized in
Table 2. The selection of corpora facilitates the following comparisons: (i) general
argumentation vs. discipline-specific argumentation (linguistics); (ii) English L1
vs. L2 writing; (iii) novice vs. specialist writing.
Table 2.  The corpora used for the investigation.
Corpus Content Writers Word count*
ICLE-NO general argumentation L2, novice 213,940
VESPA-NO linguistics papers L2, novice 221,669
LOCNESS general argumentation L1, novice 326,089
BAWE linguistics papers L1, novice 163,217
BNC-ling linguistics papers/books L1, specialist 858,726
* The word counts in VESPA-NO and BAWE exclude passages tagged as linguistic examples, quotes, etc. The
entire ICLE-NO and the entire LOCNESS have been used.
3.	 See references for links to websites with further information on the corpora.
4.	 The subcorpus was created in BNCWeb (CQP edition) using David Lee’s genre classifica-
tion; see Hoffmann & Evert (2006). All the linguistics texts in the category W:ac:soc_science
were used except those coming from Language and Literature, in total 26 texts. The subcorpus
will be referred to as BNC-ling in the following.
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
WordSmith tools (see Scott 2001) were used to search in all the corpora
except BNC-ling, for which the BNCWeb (CQP Edition) interface was used
(cf. Hoffmann & Evert 2006). VESPA-NO and BAWE have been annotated so that
WordSmith ignores material not produced by the student (such as linguistic ex-
amples or block quotes), as well as material not representing running text, such as
tables, lists and bibliographies (see Ebeling & Heuboeck 2007). For the other cor-
pora this kind of material had to be deleted manually from the concordances. The
concordances of it-clefts were exported to FileMaker Pro for annotation of relevant
features as follows:
–	 Clefted constituent: realisation type (syntactic form), syntactic function and
information status.
–	 Cleft clause: subordinator type and information status.
–	 Host clause: clause type, tense of be, discourse function of the entire cleft
construction.
4.	 Functional properties of it-clefts
Quirk et al (1985: 1384) note that the it-cleft “makes it natural to achieve focus on
the item that follows” the subject pronoun it and the verb be, in such a way that the
sentence has divided focus (i.e. focus on the clefted constituent and end focus at
the same time). The “highlighting” ability of the cleft makes it suitable for giving
marked thematic focus to a constituent that would not receive prosodic promi-
nence in an agnate non-cleft sentence, such as subjects and some types of adverbi-
als, as shown in (2) and (3).5 The focus on the clefted constituent is often, but not
necessarily, contrastive.
	 (2)	 a.	 ... it is the relative clause that has the majority, ... (VESPA-NO)
		 b.	 The relative clause has the majority.
	 (3)	 a.	 It was at this point that I realized how popular of a Christian it really
was. (LOCNESS)
		 b.	 At this point I realized how popular of a Christian magazine it really
was.
According to Prince (1978), it-clefts are of two main types: stressed focus clefts
(with focus on the clefted constituent and given information in cleft clause) and
informative-presupposition clefts, with new information in the cleft clause. These
5.	 All examples have been copied “as is” from the corpora, with any errors intact. The cleft is
given in bold from it to the subordinator to make it easily identifiable in all examples.
	 Hilde Hasselgård
are exemplified by (2a) and (3a), respectively. The former type is also referred to as
unmarked or canonical clefts (e.g. Collins 1991, Gundel 2002) although it has been
shown (e.g. by Collins 1991: 111) that they are in fact not the most frequent type
of it-cleft. In the present study, the information status of the clefted constituent and
the clefted clause has been assessed using the categories given, new and anchored
(see Prince 1981). Given means “given in the text”, and is thus equivalent to Prince’s
(1992) category of discourse-old. Anchored means that part of the clause/phrase is
given in the text: this is particularly relevant for the analysis of cleft constituents
realised by clauses and prepositional phrases, which are rarely entirely given.
Since the it-cleft construction “display[s] a structural mapping of the theme on
to the highlighted element” (Collins 1991: 171), it can also be used for thematizing
constituents that would be highly marked in clause-initial thematic position.6 In
(4), for example, the clefted constituent would be the object in a non-cleft agnate,
and thus hard to front; in (5) and (6) the negative and restrictive adverbials would
have required inversion if fronted.
	 (4)	 Sometimes it is gender stereotypes that we accommodate to most and
other times it is other things. (BAWE)
	 (5)	 It was not until the next century that his ideas were explained by Bruno
and then Gallileo. (LOCNESS)
	 (6)	 It is only when the missing words refer to somewhere in the same text
that we have substitution or ellipsis. (VESPA-NO)
It has been observed e.g. by Delin and Oberlander (1995: 469) that “cleft construc-
tions serve to indicate that the clefted constituent is a unique or exhaustive listing
of the elements that can satisfy the predicate communicated by the cleft clause”.
The uniqueness feature may co-exist with contrast, but not necessarily. The cleft in
(7) does not imply a contrast between Applied Language Studies and other ways of
studying language, but rather links back to the beginning of the paragraph.
	 (7)	 <p> In Applied Linguistics, it is important to study language that is used
in the world today. The field itself is the relation of knowledge about lan-
guage to decision making in the real world. For example, if one uses
Corpus Linguistics, you can examine a particular word or phrase as it is
actually used, and use the results of the investigation to make further deci-
sions about language. It is through Applied Language Studies that lin-
guists find answers about the language itself. (BAWE)
6.	 Collins’s terminology comes from Halliday (2004: 95), who uses the term “predicated
theme construction” for the it-cleft, entailing that the status of theme, “the element that sets the
scene for the clause itself and positions it in relation to the unfolding text” (2004: 66), is assigned
to the clefted constituent, i.e. the predicated theme.
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
Furthermore, the fact that information in a cleft clause is typically presented as
presupposed (Prince 1978: 898) makes them suitable for introducing new infor-
mation in a non-conspicuous manner. Both it-clefts in (8) illustrate this; they oc-
cur on the first page of a book where the faculty of language and written language
are mentioned for the first time in the text, and the cleft clauses similarly convey
discourse-new information. Example (9) is paragraph-initial and introduces a
new topic.
	 (8)	 The value of the use of language to transmit information is well embedded
in our cultural mythology. We all believe that it is the faculty of language
which has enabled the human race to develop diverse cultures, each with
its distinctive social customs, religious observances, laws, oral traditions,
patterns of trading, and so on. We all believe, moreover, that it is the ac-
quisition of written language which has permitted the development with-
in some of these cultures of philosophy, science and literature (see Goody,
1977). (BNC-ling: F9V)
	 (9)	 <p>Cameron (2005) says it is social arrangements which have separated
the genders from early childhood providing each with a different speech
style. (BAWE)
After an example of new information in a cleft clause, Biber et al (1999: 963) state
that “The information in the subordinate clause [...] is presented as known, as
something which is not at issue. It has been pointed out that such clefts are char-
acteristic of written texts where the writer does not wish to take responsibility for
the truth or originality of the statement.” The writers of example (8) explicitly take
responsibility for the validity of the presupposed propositions in the cleft clauses,
but in (9), the claim made in the cleft construction is specifically attributed to
somebody else, and the it-cleft seems to underline the avoidance of speaker re-
sponsibility. To sum up, it-clefts are used for the following purposes (which may
converge): giving contrastive or thematic focus to the clefted constituent; marking
the clefted constituent as unique; presenting the information in the cleft clause as
presupposed, sometimes with the effect of avoiding speaker responsibility. The
communicative functions of it-clefts are discussed further in Section 5.3.
5.	 Corpus investigation
5.1	 Overall frequencies of clefts across the corpora
A first step was to survey the frequencies of it-clefts across the corpora. These are
shown in Table 3. Contrary to the hypothesis of overuse of clefts among learners
	 Hilde Hasselgård
Table 3.  Raw and relative frequencies of clefts across the corpora.
N per 100,000 words
ICLE-NO   37 17.3
VESPA-NO   23 10.4
LOCNESS   90 27.6
BAWE   59 36.1
BNC-ling   92 10.7
Total 301
we see significant underuse in both registers when ICLE-NO is compared to
LOCNESS (p<0.05) and VESPA-NO to BAWE (p<0.0001).7 However, compared
to BNC-ling there is significant overuse in BAWE (p<0.0001), while there is no
significant difference between BNC-ling and ICLE-NO. It is thus possible that
novice L1 writers use the cleft construction differently from specialist writers.
The novice-specialist comparison is thus highly relevant in the explorations of
grammatical features of the cleft construction as well as its information structure
and discourse functions.
5.2	 Grammatical features of it-clefts across the corpora
This section will survey the host clause of the cleft construction (i.e. the type of
clause in which the cleft occurs), the realization and syntactic function of the cleft-
ed constituent, the choice of subordinator, and the tense form of be.
Figure 1 shows that the use of it-clefts is predominantly a main-clause phe-
nomenon: almost 80% of all clefts occur in a main clause. Typically, the main
clause is declarative, but ICLE-NO stands out in having a sizeable proportion of
interrogatives.8 BAWE differs by having a larger proportion of clefts in that-claus-
es.9 The remaining three corpora are remarkably similar as regards the types of
host clauses for the it-clefts.
7.	 Significance was tested using Paul Rayson’s Log likelihood calculator at <http://ucrel.lancs.
ac.uk/llwizard.html>
8.	 The difference between ICLE-NO and LOCNESS is significant at p<0.0001 and that be-
tween ICLE-NO and BAWE at p<0.001, according to Fisher’s exact test <http://graphpad.com/
quickcalcs/contingency1.cfm>, with the number of interrogative clefts being compared to the
total number of clefts in each corpus.
9.	 The difference between BAWE and BNC-ling is significant (p<0.05), but not that between
BAWE and VESPA-NO.
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
Main dec
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
Main int
That
Adv
Other*
* “Other” in ICLE-NO is a nominal interrogative (whether).
16
12
6
2
1
19
0
2
2
0
75
0
9
6
0
32
4
17
4
0
73
1
10
8
0
Figure 1.  The distribution of host clause types for the it-cleft construction.
That-clauses hosting a cleft seem to have a particular function in BAWE; they are
often used for reporting other people’s research, as shown in (10), and sometimes
for hedging the writer’s own views, as shown in (11). In BNC-ling that-clauses
with clefts are most typically used for reporting the writer’s own results or beliefs,
as in (12), although the type shown in (10) is also used by the specialists. In ICLE-
NO and VESPA-NO, by contrast, it-clefts in that-clauses are mostly used for hedg-
ing or emphasizing statements, as seen in (13).
	 (10)	 However, several researchers have proposed that it is vocabulary level
and not age which is the best determiner for fast mapping skills. (BAWE)
	 (11)	 In this example it can be argued that it is the pattern that contains the
meaning, not the word. (BAWE)
	 (12)	 Having firmly rejected this device for the other adjective constructions dis-
cussed so far (not excluding the postnominal attributive), we consider that
it is only in Sections 4.5 onwards that we have encountered a construction
where the adjective can reasonably be treated in this way. (BNC-ling: HPY)
	 (13)	 The point is that it not the feminists who are the reason for worry here; it
is rather the system, the structure of a society totally dependent on women
as the “domestic caretakers”. (ICLE-NO)
About 5–7% of the clefts occur in adverbial clauses, predominantly introduced by
subordinators expressing contingency meaning, e.g. because, as, since, although, if,
	 Hilde Hasselgård
and whereas. The majority of these (18 of 22) contain a clefted constituent with
given or anchored information. The givenness may come from the matrix clause,
as in (14), where the contrast expressed by the it-cleft is sentence-internal.
	 (14)	 One group of people consider fishing men’s work and weaving women’s,
while two hundred miles away it is women who fish and men who weave.
(BNC: CGF)
Special notice should be taken of clefts in interrogatives because of the overuse in
ICLE-NO.10 Gundel (2002: 120) observes that questions “are frequently rendered
as clefts in Norwegian, more so than in English”. The same tendency has been
noted by Mojžíšová (2009: 59), who finds a greater frequency of both direct and
indirect interrogative clauses with clefts in Norwegian than in English. As in
Mojžíšová’s material, most of the interrogatives in the present corpora (13 out of
17) are wh-interrogatives, as exemplified in (15), but yes/no interrogatives also oc-
cur (16). Example (17) shows that the construction also occurs in L1 English, so
the difference concerns frequency rather than acceptability. Interestingly, VESPA-
NO writers have avoided questions with clefts, which may be linked to a signifi-
cantly lower frequency of questions altogether in this corpus than in ICLE-NO
(cf. Paquot et al., 2013).
	 (15)	 So what was it then with Harry Potter that captured so many? (ICLE)
	 (16)	 In the end – is it not dreams that keep us alive? (ICLE)
	 (17)	 But why is it that one social class should show a certain linguistic trait
when another does not? (BAWE)
It-clefts are notable for their flexibility in terms of the types of constituent that can
be highlighted (e.g. Collins 1991: 57). Figure 2 gives the frequencies and propor-
tional distribution of realization types across the corpora.
As in Collins’s study (1991: 57), noun phrases are the most frequently high-
lighted phrase type, but the dominance is even greater in all of the corpora exam-
ined here than in Collins’s material, where noun phrases accounted for 50% of the
clefted constituents. In Figure 2, pronouns have been separated from full noun
phrases due to Biber et al.’s observation that “the focused element in an it-cleft is
not infrequently a pronoun or some other form which expresses given informa-
tion” (1999: 962). Interestingly, only the native speakers, and no learners, highlight
pronouns in the manner shown in (18). However, deictic adverbs are used by
10.	 ICLE-NO contains 387 questions per 100,000 words (Paquot et al 2013: 384), which is twice
as many as in LOCNESS and seven times as many as in VESPA-NO. However, even in relation
to the total number of question, the overuse of interrogative clefts in ICLE-NO is highly signifi-
cant compared to LOCNESS, but not compared to VESPA due to the smaller total number of
interrogatives in the latter.
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
NP
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
pron
PP
adv
subcl
wh
20
0
5
3
0
9
19
0
1
1
2
0
52
7
24
5
2
0
41
1
11
2
1
3
56
15
12
5
3
1
Figure 2.  The realization of the clefted constituents across corpora.
native speakers and learners alike in the way noted by Biber et al.; see (19). In fact,
the clefted adverb phrases are typically deictic in all the corpora, e.g. here, there,
then, recently.
	 (18)	 It is this which is most at risk in children with limited hearing. (BNC-ling:
CLH)
	 (19)	 Although the text consists of a very small percentage of spoken language,
it is here that 3 of the 7 cases of substitution/ellipsis occur. (VESPA-NO)
ICLE-NO has by far the highest frequency of highlighted wh-words, reflecting the
fact that it has a higher proportion of it-clefts in interrogative host clauses. An
example is given in (20).
	 (20)	 But what is it that make us struggle for this rapid development? (ICLE-NO)
It should be noted that the low frequency of clefted constituents realized by depen-
dent clauses is at least partly due to the search procedures that were applied, i.e.
clauses might be longer than the 1–5 words allowed in the searches between be
and the subordinator (cf. Section 2); in fact the dependent clauses that do occur in
the material have been picked up because they contain a wh-word or a that before
the subordinator of the cleft clause, as shown in (21), where the subordinator when
caused the sentence to turn up in the corpus search.11
11.	 The ICE-GB (where clefts have been tagged) had no examples of dependent clauses as cleft-
ed constituents in academic texts, so clefted dependent clauses may simply be infrequent in aca-
demic writing.
	 Hilde Hasselgård
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
Subject
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
Object
Adverbial
Prep.compl
Other
24
1
12
0
0
19
0
4
0
0
58
0
31
1
0
36
4
18
1
0
67
0
21
3
1
Figure 3.  The syntactic functions of the clefted constituent across corpora.
	 (21)	 It is only when the missing words refer to somewhere in the same text
that we have substitution or ellipsis. (VESPA-NO)
With the high frequency of noun phrases as clefted constituents, it comes as no
surprise that subjects are the most frequently focused clause element in all cor-
pora, with adverbials second, as seen in Figure 3.
It is slightly surprising that the writers only rarely use the it-cleft construction
to thematize objects, and instead use it mostly for constituents which could be
thematic anyway. The reason for highlighting subjects in clefts must be the extra
focus that goes with the construction. As pointed out by Lambrecht (2001: 489):
Cleft constructions are focus-marking devices used to prevent unintended pred-
icate-focus construal of a proposition. Clefts serve to mark as focal an argument
that might otherwise be construed as non-focal, or as nonfocal a predicate that
might otherwise be construed as focal, or both.
With the exception of one example of an interrogative pronoun functioning as
direct object in ICLE-NO, only native speakers focus something other than sub-
jects and adverbials, though rarely. An example is given in (22).
	 (22)	 For example, it is not voicing that the English listener relies on to distin-
guish plosives, but aspiration (syllable initial position) and pre-fortis
clipping (as also applies for fricatives and affricates) and glottalization
(syllable final position). (BAWE)
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
Callies (2009: 182) finds that German learners have a strong preference for high-
lighting subjects in their it-clefts, thus displaying less syntactic variation than the
native speakers. His suggested explanation is that the learners may be less adven-
turous when it comes to using more infrequent patterns. However, since both
German and Norwegian can thematize non-subjects more easily than English can,
it is of course possible that the learners have also used thematization infelicitously
in their writing instead of resorting to the cleft construction. An investigation of
this is unfortunately beyond the scope of the present study.
As regards adverbials, many of them are deictics of the type shown in (19)
above and (23) below. These typically use the given information as a starting point
for introducing new information in the cleft clause and thereby creating a transition
in the text. In the case of (19), the adverbial is obligatory and thus hard to thematize
without making the sentence syntactically marked. But in (23) the adverb then
would have fitted in nicely in thematic position (... and then they cease to be clear).
However, the alternative wording would give no focus at all to the adverb.
	 (23)	 Communication also suffers when people make false assumptions about
shared schemata, and it is then that they cease to ‘be clear’. (BNC-ling:
F9W)
	 (24)	 It is only recently that patterns have become accessible to researchers
through the development of Corpus Linguistics. (BAWE)
About a fifth of the adverbials are accompanied by a focus adverb, typically only, as
shown in (24). Obviously, as noted in Section 4, the thematization of this type of
adjunct would cause inversion and thereby marked syntax. Thus, examples such as
(19) and (24) show that the it-cleft construction is a means of assigning thematic
focus to certain constituents without creating syntactic markedness.
Many of the focused adverbials in ICLE-NO are wh-words, particularly why.
Similarly, the one example of clefted object in ICLE-NO occurs in an interrogative
where the object is a wh-word. The clefted non-subjects in ICLE-NO, in contrast
to the other corpora, thus reflect the overuse of clefts in interrogatives shown in
Figure 1 above. If interrogatives are disregarded, the percentage of subjects in cleft-
ed position in ICLE-NO rises slightly to 68.
A feature that distinguishes the learners from the native speakers is the choice
of subordinator for the cleft clause. As shown in Figure 4 there is a clear preference
in all the novice corpora for the subordinator that. Native speakers use which and
who more than the learners do; in fact ICLE-NO uses almost exclusively that while
VESPA-NO has a few instances of wh-subordinators. A potential contrastive rea-
son for this may be that Norwegian has only one relative pronoun (som), which is
used in all clefts except those that highlight an adverbial, where the subordinator
at (cognate of that) is used.
	 Hilde Hasselgård
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
That
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
Which
Who
Other
36
0
1
0
17
2
3
1
42
21
24
3
33
17
9
1
35
46
10
1
Figure 4.  The choice of subordinator in the cleft clause across corpora.
BNC-ling is the only subcorpus where wh-subordinators are preferred to that. This
is most likely a sign of a more formal style. Biber et al. (1999) do not discuss sub-
ordinator choice in cleft clauses, but they do note (1999: 609 ff) that register influ-
ences the choice of relativizers: wh-relativizers are more frequent than that in the
more formal genres (news and academic prose). The choice of that vs. wh-subor-
dinators in BAWE and LOCNESS is similar enough to that of BNC-ling for the
differences to be non-significant. However, the differences between ICLE and
VESPA and between ICLE and LOCNESS are significant (Fisher’s exact test,
p=0.0345 and p < 0.0001, respectively).
As shown in Figure 5, the tense form of the copula in the cleft constructions
varies relatively little across the corpora. The present tense predominates across
the board, from 68% (ICLE-NO) to 100% (VESPA-NO). Only simple tense forms
are found in both the past and the present. The few examples of ‘other’ comprise
three modalized verb phrases and one with the present perfect.
The great difference between the two learner corpora as to their choice of tense
forms is most likely due to genre. In ICLE-NO and LOCNESS the past tense is
used in narrative passages and in passages concerned with history, illustrated by
(25) and (26), respectively.
	 (25)	 And it was the girls who had changed their opinion on, and treatment of,
me, not the boys. (ICLE-NO)
	 (26)	 De Gaulle was the first President of the 5th Republic and it was he who
established the role. (LOCNESS)
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
Present
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
Past
Other
25
11
1
23
0
0
77
13
0
50
9
1
87
3
2
Figure 5.  Tense form in the matrix clause of cleft constructions.
In BAWE and BNC-ling, by contrast, the past tense is used in reports on previous
research, as exemplified in (27) and (28); in VESPA-NO, however, this use of clefts
was not found.
	 (27)	 Their research showed more interruptions occurred in mixed-sex conver-
sations than in single-sex ones and that it was nearly always men who did
the interrupting. (BAWE)
	 (28)	 It was Lavandera who suggested that the concept of the linguistic variable
could not usefully be applied to the analysis of syntactic variation... (BNC-
ling: FRG)
This survey of the grammatical features and the grammatical environment of clefts
may suggest some tentative and partial explanations for the underuse of clefts by
Norwegian learners of English. The most important factor may have to do with the
grammatical context of the clefts. In her contrastive study of clefts, Mojžíšová
(2009: 69) points out that interrogatives are a typical environment for Norwegian
clefts, but not for English ones. This was referred to above to explain the overuse
of clefts in interrogatives in ICLE-NO. However, it may also be a factor in the un-
deruse of clefts in declaratives, and might suggest that the Norwegian clefts have
slightly different discourse functions from English ones.
Another feature, also noted by Mojžíšová (ibid.) is that English uses clefts for
adverbials, particularly those that are negative or restrictive, to a greater extent
than Norwegian, which instead favours nominal clefted constituents. She finds
that clefted adverbials in English often correspond to fronted adverbials in
Norwegian translations. Thus, it may not occur to Norwegian learners to thema-
tize adverbials by means of clefts as often as native speakers of English do, which
	 Hilde Hasselgård
might explain the massive predominance of subjects as the clefted constituent
(especially in VESPA-NO compared to BAWE).12
In Mojžíšová’s (2009) investigation of English and Norwegian translations
from Czech, less than half of Norwegian clefts corresponded to English clefts. This
was taken as a sign of a low degree of mutual translatability despite formal simi-
larities. Johansson (2001: 561) reports a similar tendency in translations between
English and Swedish. However, it might also point to cross-linguistic differences in
discourse functions of clefts, as was indicated by the special uses of clefts in that-
clauses and clefts with a past-tense verb found only with native speakers of English.
The next section will thus take a look at the information structure and discourse
functions of clefts in the corpora.
5.3	 Information structure and discourse functions
As indicated above (Section 4), a distinction is often made between stressed focus
clefts and informative presupposition clefts, following Prince (1978). The distinc-
tion is based on the information status of the clefted constituent and the cleft
clause. Figure 6 shows the information structure of the cleft constructions in the
material, which was assessed by checking the context of each it-cleft. Following the
practice of Johansson (2002), anchored is grouped with given. It should be noted,
though, that more than 3/4 of the given cleft clauses are in fact anchored, while
only 1/3 of the given clefted constituents are anchored.
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
Given-given
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
New-given
Given-new
New-new
12
12
8
5
7
7
9
0
11
12
48
19
30
6
19
4
47
8
34
3
10% 30% 50% 70% 90%
Figure 6.  The information structure of cleft constructions.
12.	 In Swedish too, adverbials are fronted more often than in English (Johansson 1996: 35),
and yet Swedish learners overuse it-clefts. The correlation between fronting and clefting clearly
merits further study.
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
Examples (29)–(32) show the four patterns, each taken from the corpus in
which it has the highest proportional frequency.
	 (29)	 As we saw above, and Lyons would not disagree, it is mostly in the para-
linguistic features that English performs this function. (given+given;
BNC-ling: EA3)
	 (30)	 Was it the invention of the lightbulb that killed our imagination?
(new+given; ICLE-NO)
	 (31)	 ... but once it is used, nuclear power is much better for the environment,
for people’s lives, and better for the economic gain of the United States. It
is with innovations like this that we move ahead in the world of energy.
(given+new; LOCNESS)
	 (32)	 In general it is politicians and leaders who misuse the power bistowed on
them and destroy the scientists good work. (new+new; LOCNESS)
Example (29), from a book called Literacy in theory and practice, can be interpreted
as a reminder to the reader of something already presented before the author pro-
ceeds to criticize other aspects of Lyons’s argument. In example (30) the presupposi-
tion in the cleft clause comes from the essay title: “Some people say that in our
modern world, dominated by science, technology and industrialisation, there is no
longer a place for dreaming and imagination. What is your opinion?”. The clefted
constituent represents a humorous attempt at identifying the cause of this condition.
It is no coincidence that the example represents an interrogative: the popularity of
the new-given pattern in ICLE-NO is to a great extent due to interrogatives, often
though with a highlighted wh-word. In (31) the writer uses the cleft clause to launch
a new topic while the clefted constituent links back to the preceding context, and in
(32) the entire cleft construction presents new information although the scientists
mentioned at the end of the sentence have been the topic of previous discourse too.
Interestingly, BNC-ling and BAWE have almost identical distributions of the
various information types of clefts, while LOCNESS differs significantly from
them as regards all informational types of clefts except new-given.13 In the L2 ma-
terial, on the other hand, there is no statistically significant difference between the
registers in this respect.
In her investigation of L2 English writing by Swedish learners, Boström
Aronsson (2005: 161) notes a greater tendency for learners than for native speak-
ers to use it-clefts to thematize new information (i.e. to have a clefted constituent
carrying new information). This pattern is noticeable in the present material too:
new clefted constituents are more frequent in ICLE-NO than in LOCNESS and
13.	 Fisher’s exact test: given-given (p<0.0001), given-new (p<0.05), and new-new (p<0.01).
	 Hilde Hasselgård
more frequent in VESPA-NO than in BAWE. The differences for the new-given
pattern are significant in both sets of corpora (p<0.01). New clefted constituents
are less frequent in the discipline-specific writing than in the argumentative es-
says in both writer groups though the difference is significant only between the
L1 corpora (p<0.05).
	 As shown in Figure 6, not all cleft constructions have given information in
one part and new in the other. Assuming that the information value of the cleft
clause is what distinguishes stressed focus clefts from informative-presupposition
clefts (cf. Prince 1978), we may include “given+given” and “new+given” in the for-
mer category (which entails that there may be contrastive focus on given clefted
constituents), and “given+new” and “new+new” in the latter. The proportional
distribution of Prince’s two types of clefts is then fairly similar across the corpora
except LOCNESS, with approximately 60% of the clefts being of the stressed focus
type. LOCNESS stands out by having by far the highest proportion of informative-
presupposition clefts, over 70%. VESPA-NO, on the other hand, differs by not us-
ing the new+new pattern at all. Notably, the so-called ‘canonical cleft’ (e.g. Gundel
2002), with a new clefted constituent and a given cleft clause, is not a majority pat-
tern in any of the corpora.
The various information structure patterns of the clefts can be expected to do
different discourse work. In his contrastive study of clefts in Swedish and English,
Johansson (2002) proposed four main discourse-organizational functions of clefts,
claimed to correlate with information structure:
–	 Contrast: The clefted constituent marks a contrast to something previously
mentioned/assumed.
–	 Topic Launching: The clefted constituent becomes the topic of the subsequent
discourse.
–	 Topic Linking: The two parts of the cleft construction – clefted constituent
and cleft clause – link together two discourse topics.
–	 Summative: The it-cleft concludes or rounds off a text or a section of a text.
(Johansson 2002: 193)
To this should be added a fifth type, namely thematic emphasis (see Hasselgård
2004: 204). This is a function of the extra thematic prominence given to a clefted
constituent, but it is not associated with contrast. It can sometimes be character-
ized as a “uniqueness feature” (cf. Delin & Oberlander 1995), but could also simply
provide focus to a constituent which would have been non-focal in a non-cleft
agnate of the sentence, as in (33); cf. Lambrecht (2001: 489). As in (33), most clefts
of this type highlight the subject.
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
	 (33)	 In Norway you even get extra point for taking so called science subjects in
high school. Because our society is controlled more and more by comput-
ers it is knowledge on such areas that are valued. (ICLE-NO)
According to Johansson (2002: 193), the discourse functions correlate with
information structure: “all-given” clefts are typically contrastive or summative;
“new-given” are typically contrastive, while the informative presupposition types
(“given-new” and “new-new”) are topic-linking or topic-launching.
Figure 7 shows the distribution of discourse functions of clefts across the
corpora. The discourse functions were assessed on the basis of the wider context
of the clefts. Often, more than one discourse function was apparent, in which
case the most conspicuous one was the basis for the classification. Note, how-
ever, that particularly contrast and thematic emphasis tend to be present even
where the main discourse function was considered to be topic-launching, topic-
linking or summative.
Few of the differences reported in Figure 7 are statistically significant; i.e. there
were no significant differences between the following corpus pairs: LOCNESS vs.
BAWE, VESPA-NO vs. BAWE, VESPA-NO vs. BNC-ling, BAWE vs. BNC-ling.
However, ICLE-NO underuses contrast and overuses topic-launching in compari-
son with both LOCNESS and VESPA-NO (Fisher’s exact test, p<0.05).
Contrast is the function prototypically associated with the cleft construction,
and it is the most common function in all corpora except ICLE-NO. The contrast
may be explicit, as in (25) above, or implicit, as in (27), where the understood con-
trast is between men and women. Negative polarity turns out to be a good indica-
tor of contrast: 17 of the 25 negative polarity clefts denote contrast, as illustrated
ICLE-NO
0%
ICLE-NO
Contrast
VESPA-NO LOCNESS BAWE BNC-ling
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
VESPA-NO
LOCNESS
BAWE
BNC-ling
Topic-launching
Topic-linking
Summative
Emphasis
Unclear
8
11
6
5
4
3
10
0
7
1
4
1
35
11
29
7
3
5
21
12
14
8
3
1
33
13
20
17
8
1
Figure 7.  The discourse functions of clefts across the corpora.
	 Hilde Hasselgård
by (34). In the remaining ones, contrast is also invariably present, but the con-
struction may be multifunctional, such as (35), which has been classified as topic-
linking (the second most frequent function of negative clefts); the cleft marks the
boundary between the more general description of obstruents and the more spe-
cific case of distinctive features of plosives.
	 (34)	 It was not just pronunciation difficulties which arose. (BAWE)
	 (35)	 However English obstruents labelled as voiced are not always fully voiced
and are sometimes even voiceless. [...] For example, it is not voicing that
the English listener relies on to distinguish plosives, but aspiration (sylla-
ble initial position) and pre-fortis clipping ... (BAWE)
The co-occurrence of an it-cleft with a restrictive or focusing marker such as only
is another indicator of contrast; see (36). However, contrast is the predominant
discourse function of only about 50% of the clefts with additional focus markers;
the second most frequent function is thematic emphasis. This is natural in light of
the markedness associated with the fronting of negative and restrictive adverbials,
as noted in Section 4 and exemplified in (6).
	 (36)	 However, there is usually more text between the terms, in this example, it
is merely only a comma that separates them. (VESPA-NO)
The new+new pattern, found in all the corpora except VESPA-NO, may be
associated with topic launching. Example (37) is text-initial, and “Westminster
Parliament” is a main topic of the essay.
	 (37)	 A very important characteristic of the UK constitution, and one which is
central to the question of sovereignty, is that it is the Westminster Parlia-
ment that is the supreme legal authority in the UK. (LOCNESS)
The topic-launching pattern is particularly frequent in ICLE-NO. This is largely
due to interrogatives with a highlighted wh-word, which has been classified as new
information and typically provides a topic for the following discourse. By contrast,
the topic-launching function of clefts in declaratives is rare in ICLE-NO (three
examples, of which one is ungrammatical) and absent from VESPA-NO, which
suggests that this function of clefts is not too familiar to Norwegian learners of
English. Topic-linking, on the other hand, is found in the learner material as well
as in the L1 material; see (38).
	 (38)	 The most widely recognized model of cohesion is the one proposed by
Michael Halliday and Ruqaiya Hasan (Baker 1992: 180), and it is this
model that will provide the basis for the text analysis in this paper. (VES-
PA-NO)
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
The summative function of clefts is most frequent in the specialist corpus, illus-
trated by (39), which concludes a section.
	 (39)	 Nonetheless, I believe that the CA approach can get us further with the
study of code switching than other approaches tried so far, and it is on
that basis that I have chosen to use it in this book. (BNC-ling: HXY)
Finally, some uses of the cleft construction seem unmotivated; these have been cat-
egorized as “unclear” in Figure 6. For example, the discourse function of the cleft in
(40) is unclear because it fits poorly into its context. It does not link topics (or launch
one); nor is there a contrast, at least not between the clefted constituent and some-
thing else. However, there is a contrast between the whole cleft construction and the
sentence preceding it, which may have been what triggered the use of the cleft.
	 (40)	 If this line of thinking is continued then man will realise the superfluous
nature of his own presence. All the objects around him would still exist,
just wouldnot have a meaning. It is human beings who insist on categoris-
ing everything in order to explain it. (LOCNESS)
The survey of the information structure and discourse functions of clefts has
shown great similarities between BNC-ling and BAWE. The information structure
of clefts distinguished these two corpora from LOCNESS, and also from the learn-
ers. LOCNESS was more different from the L1 discipline-specific writing than
ICLE-NO was from the L2 discipline-specific writing, suggesting that the learners
may be less aware of register conventions, which was also a conclusion in Boström
Aronsson’s (2005) study.
As regards discourse functions, ICLE-NO is the corpus that differs most from
the rest; as stated above, this is related to the use of clefts in questions. If interroga-
tives are excluded from the ICLE-NO material, the distribution of discourse func-
tions becomes more like the other corpora, with contrast as the most frequent
category, closely followed by topic linking. Topic launching is reduced to the same
frequency as thematic emphasis (4 out of 25). Interestingly, the removal of inter-
rogatives also reduces the number of clefts with an unclear discourse function to
one, which indicates that the Norwegian use of clefts in interrogatives is not easily
transferred to English. It is thus an interesting – and relatively uplifting – finding
that the learners, particularly in their academic papers, have fewer problems with
the discourse functions of clefts than with their frequency of use.
	 Hilde Hasselgård
6.	 Concluding remarks
The main aims of this study were to explore the use of it-clefts across L1 back-
grounds, register and level of expertise by studying their grammatical and contex-
tual properties. The investigation has uncovered both quantitative and qualitative
differences across the corpora.
Most strikingly, the hypothesis of overuse had to be rejected in favour of the
opposite situation, namely a highly significant underuse of clefts by Norwegian
learners in both registers investigated. Norwegian learners of English thus differ
from their Swedish and German peers. Johansson (2001: 579) suggests that there
are functional differences between English and Swedish clefts. Although these dif-
ferences seem to result in overuse of clefts among Swedish learners of English, it is
of course possible that the underuse among Norwegians may be related to differ-
ent functions of clefts in English and Norwegian.
Despite the general trend of underuse of clefts, the Norwegian learners were
found to overuse them in interrogative contexts. This can probably be linked to
transfer from Norwegian, since contrastive studies have shown that interrogative
clefts are more frequent in Norwegian than in English. However, the learners rep-
resented in VESPA-NO do not use interrogative clefts at all. This is partly an effect
of questions being much less frequent in VESPA-NO than in ICLE-NO (Paquot et
al 2013: 384), but also an indication that the learners in VESPA produce slightly
more native-like discourse than those in ICLE-NO.
Another interesting finding regarding the grammatical contexts of clefts
was the special use of clefts in that-clauses or with past-tense matrix verbs in
reports of previous research (Section 5.2). This use was not found among the
learners, even if the tasks of VESPA-NO writers were similar to those of BAWE
writers, who used this structure most. The specialists represented in BNC-ling
used the that-clause reporting less, possibly because their task was not so much
to report on other people’s research as to advance their own. By contrast, the
learners in both corpora used clefts in that-clauses to either hedge or emphasize
an opinion.
The learners were found to differ from L1 users of English also in other ways.
In particular, they displayed a more stereotypical pattern as regards the syntactic
function of the clefted constituent and the choice of subordinator in the cleft
clause. The much more frequent use of wh-subordinators in BNC-ling suggests a
greater degree of formality, which the learners in VESPA-NO have not acquired to
the same extent as the novice L1 writers in LOCNESS and BAWE.
The correlation between register and the frequency of clefts remains inconclu-
sive. The hypothesis was that it-clefts will be more frequent in discipline-specific
academic writing than in argumentative essays. This would corroborate Nelson’s
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
(1997) findings, but notably not those of Collins (1991).14 The L1 material studied
here in fact lends support to both of these two studies: the argumentative essays
(LOCNESS) have more clefts than the discipline-specific writing in BNC-ling, but
fewer than in BAWE. In the L2 material there is a higher frequency of clefts in
ICLE-NO than in VESPA-NO.
The present investigation may have answered some questions, but has raised
others. Most urgently, there is a need for a comprehensive contrastive study of
English and Norwegian clefts, including their information structure and discourse
functions, as the studies referred to here are rather restricted in their scope: Gun-
del (2002) was based on extracts of a single Norwegian novel with its English
translation (Sophie’s World by Jostein Gaarder), Chocholousova (2008) did not ex-
plore the discourse functions of clefts separately, and Mojžíšová (2009) studied
parallel English and Norwegian translations from Czech.
It is also clear that the quantitative basis for the present study of learner lan-
guage is scant. Thus more material would be needed to ensure the validity of the
results. Similarly, the study of two registers only is not enough to ascertain a regis-
ter difference in the use of clefts in this type of material, even if a comparison of
BNC-ling with the academic writing in the ICE-GB might point in that direction
(see also footnote 10).15
Finally, an investigation of a single type of focusing construction cannot tell
the whole story of how writers organize their discourse. Further research is need-
ed, on learner data as well as contrastive data, that takes various types of focusing
constructions into consideration (along the lines of Callies 2009). With the range
of new learner corpora now being developed, this task might be solved in the not-
too-distant future.
Sources
BAWE: <http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/al/research/collect/bawe/>
BNCWeb (CQP Edition): see <http://rdues.bcu.ac.uk/bncweb/manual/bncwebman-home.
htm>
14.	 The divergent results of Nelson (1997), Collins (1991) and my own results from BNC-ling
may however be explainable by reference to disciplines. The academic writing in the ICE-GB,
used for a previous version of the present paper, contained no linguistics papers, and had a fre-
quency of it-clefts of 78 per 100,000 words, i.e. more than twice that of BAWE (see Table 3). The
difference between BNC-ling and BAWE, however, cannot be explained by the present analysis.
15.	 While ICLE-NO is a closed corpus, VESPA-NO is being expanded and is already larger
than the version used for the present study. Two other disciplines are currently being added,
namely business and literature.
	 Hilde Hasselgård
ICE-GB: <http://www.ucl.ac.uk/english-usage/projects/ice-gb/index.htm>
ICLE (NO): <http://www.uclouvain.be/en-cecl-icle.html>
LOCNESS: <http://www.uclouvain.be/en-cecl-locness.html>
VESPA: <http://www.uclouvain.be/en-cecl-vespa.html>
References
Baker, M. 1992. In other word: A coursebook on translation. London: Routledge.
Biber, D. & Conrad, S. 2009. Register, Genre, and Style. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/
CBO9780511814358
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S. & Finegan, E. 1999. Longman Grammar of Spoken
and Written English. London: Longman.
Boström Aronsson, M. 2005. Themes in Swedish Advanced Learners’ Written English. PhD the-
sis, Göteborg University.
Callies, M. 2009. Information Highlighting in Advanced Learner English. The Syntax–pragmat-
ics Interface in Second Language Acquisition [Pragmatics & Beyond New Series 186].
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chocholousova, B. 2008. There and it in a cross-linguistic perspective. MA thesis, University
of Oslo.
Collins, P.C. 1991. Cleft and Pseudo-cleft Constructions in English. London: Routledge. DOI:
10.4324/9780203202463
Delin, J. & Oberlander, J. 1995. Syntactic constraints on discourse structure: the case of it-clefts.
Linguistics 33: 465–500. DOI: 10.1515/ling.1995.33.3.465
Ebeling, S.O. & Heuboeck, A. 2007. Encoding document information in a corpus of student
writing: the British Academic Written English corpus. Corpora 2: 241–256. DOI: 10.3366/
cor.2007.2.2.241
Gilquin, G. & Paquot, M. 2008. Too chatty: Learner academic writing and register variation.
English Text Construction 1: 41–61. DOI: 10.1075/etc.1.1.05gil
Goldberg, A.E. 2006. Constructions at Work. Oxford: OUP.
Granger, S., Dagneaux, E., Meunier, F. & Paquot, M. (eds). 2009. International Corpus of Learner
English, Version 2. Louvain-la-Neuve: UCL Presses Universitaires de Louvain.
Gundel, J.K. 2002. Information structure and the use of cleft sentences in English and Norwe-
gian. In Information Structure in Cross-Linguistic Perspective, H. Hasselgård, S. Johansson,
B. Behrens & C. Fabricius-Hansen (eds), 113–128. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Halliday, M.A.K. 1985. “Context of situation”, “Functions of language”, “Register variation”. In
Language, Context and Text: Aspects of language in a social-semiotic perspective, M.A.K.
Halliday & R. Hasan, 3–43, Geelong: Deakin University.
Halliday, M.A.K. 2004. An Introduction to Functional Grammar, 3rd edn, revised by Christian
M.I.M. Matthiessen. London: Arnold.
Hasselgård, H. 2004. Adverbials in it-cleft constructions. In Advances in Corpus Linguistics, K.
Aijmer & B. Altenberg (eds), 195–211. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Hasselgård, H. 2009. Thematic choice and expressions of stance in English argumentative texts
by Norwegian learners. In Corpora and Language Teaching [Studies in Corpus Linguistics
34], K. Aijmer (ed.), 121–139. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/scl.33.12has
Hedberg, N. 2000. The referential status of clefts. Language 76: 891–920. DOI: 10.2307/417203
	 It-clefts in English L1 and L2 academic writing	 
Hoffmann, S. & Evert, S. 2006. BNCweb (CQP edition) - The marriage of two corpus tools. In
Corpus Technology and Language Pedagogy? New Resources, New Tools, New Methods, S.
Braun, K. Kohn & J. Mukherjee (eds), 177–195, 295–326. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Johansson, M. 1996. Fronting in English and Swedish: A text-based contrastive analysis. In Syn-
chronic Corpus Linguistics. Papers from the sixteenth international conference on English lan-
guage research on computerized corpora (ICAME 16), C.A. Percy, C.F. Meyer & I. Lancashire
(eds), 29–40. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Johansson, M. 2001. Clefts in contrast: A contrastive study of it clefts and wh clefts in English
and Swedish texts and translations. Linguistics 39: 547–582.
Johansson, M. 2002. Clefts in English and Swedish. A Contrastive Study of IT-clefts and WH-
clefts in Original Texts and Translations. PhD thesis, Lund University.
Lambrecht, K. 2001. A framework for the analysis of cleft constructions. Linguistics 39: 463–516.
DOI: 10.1515/ling.2001.021
Mojžíšová, K. 2009. Cleft sentences in English and Norwegian. MA thesis, Charles University,
Prague.
Nelson, G. 1997. Cleft constructions in spoken and written English. Journal of English Linguistics
25: 340–348. DOI: 10.1177/007542429702500408
Nesi, H. & Gardner, S. 2012. Genres across the Disciplines. Student Writing in Higher Education.
Cambridge: CUP.
Paquot, M., Hasselgård, H. & Ebeling, S.O. 2013. Writer/reader visibility in learner writing
across genres: A comparison of the French and Norwegian components of the ICLE and
VESPA learner corpora. In Twenty Years of Learner Corpus Research: Looking back, Moving
ahead. “Corpora and Language in Use”, S. Granger, G. Gilquin & F. Meunier (eds), 377–387.
Louvain-la-Neuve: Presses Universitaires de Louvain.
Prince, E.F. 1978. A comparison of wh-clefts and it-clefts in discourse. Language 54: 883–906.
DOI: 10.2307/413238
Prince, E.F. 1981. Toward a taxonomy of given–new information. In Radical Pragmatics, P. Cole
(ed.), 223–255. New York NY: Academic Press.
Prince, E.F. 1992. The ZPG letter: Subjects, definiteness, and information-status. In Discourse
Description: Diverse Linguistic Analyses of a Fund-Raising Text [Pragmatics & Beyond New
Series 16], W.C. Mann & S. Thompson (eds), 295–326. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI:
10.1075/pbns.16.12pri
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G. & Svartvik, J. 1985. A Comprehensive Grammar of the Eng-
lish Language. London: Longman.
Rørvik, S. 2012. Thematic progression in learner language. In English Corpus Linguistics: Look-
ing back, Moving forward. Papers from the 30th International Conference on English Lan-
guage Research on Computerized Corpora (ICAME 30), S. Hoffmann, P. Rayson & G. Leech
(eds), 165–177. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Scott, M. 2001. Comparing corpora and identifying key words, collcations, and frequency distri-
butions through the WordSmith Tools suite of computer programs. In Small Corpus Studies
and ELT. Theory and Practice [Studies in Corpus Linguistics 5], M. Ghadessy, A. Henry &
R.L. Roseberry (eds), 47–67. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/scl.5.07sco
The speech functions of tag questions
and their properties. A comparison of their
distribution in COLT and LLC
Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
KU Leuven
This article proposes a classification of speech functions of variable tag questions
in British English conversations. Based on intonational, conversational and
formal criteria the analysis shows that tag questions can not only function as
questions and statements, but also as responses, commands and offers. A large
group of tag questions cannot be captured by any of the traditional speech
functions and are classified instead as Statement-Question blends. The article
investigates the impact of the LLC and COLT corpora, and features such as
gender, age and social roles, on the distribution of the different speech functions
and their properties. The main finding is that all speech functions are present in
the two different corpora, albeit with differing relative frequencies.
Keywords: tag question, speech function, conversation analysis, intonation,
polarity
1.	 Introduction1
An issue central to tag questions (henceforth TQs) is which different speech func-
tions they can realize in dialogue. Basic speech functions are commonly labelled
by terms such as questions, statements, commands, offers, responses (e.g. Martin
1992; Halliday & Matthiessen 2004). In English reference grammars (e.g. Quirk
1.	 The research reported on in this article would not have been possible without the doctoral
grant awarded to Ditte Kimps by the FWO-Flanders Research Foundation as part of the research
project G.0560.11. The research was further supported by GOA-project 12/007, “The multiple
functional load of grammatical signs”, awarded by the Research Council of the University of
Leuven. For helpful discussion of issues relevant to this study we are grateful to Hendrik De
Smet and Wim Van der Elst. Our particular thanks go to the two anonymous referees for their
helpful and challenging comments.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
et al. 1985; Huddleston & Pullum 2002; Aarts & McMahon 2006) TQs are mainly
viewed as asking for information (1) or making requests (2). However, in actual
usage, TQs are also used to give information in the form of statements (3) and
responses (4).
	 (1)	 and you ^checked with ‘Mark ‘Timson that he wasn`t \interested# *((^d/
id you#))* (LLC)
	 (2)	 ign\ore the damn thing will you# (COLT)
	 (3)	 ^well in ‘fact I !((never)) !!w\ork with them# ^d\o ‘I# (LLC)
	 (4)	 A:	 *is ^that* what ‘happened at :C\ambridge# – -
		 B:	 I ^think that ‘got ‘thrown \out# ^d/idn`t it# (LLC)2
This has received insufficient attention in the literature, because, as noted by
Axelsson (2011: 137), TQs “have often been described as typically asking for con-
firmation or verification (e.g. in Quirk et al. 1985: 811), i.e. as response-eliciting”.
In this article, we will show on the basis of corpus study that TQs in spontane-
ous dialogue can realize all primary speech functions. We will correlate each
speech function type with the most prominent formal and semantic-pragmatic
features of the TQs that realize it. We will also examine the relative frequencies of
the various speech functions and their properties in our dataset. In fact, no com-
prehensive qualitative and quantitative analysis has been carried out yet of the
speech functions of English TQs in spontaneous dialogue data. As intonation is
invoked in every discussion of the basic speech acts expressed by TQs, it seemed
important to us to incorporate systematic prosodic information in our descrip-
tion. This is why we investigated the speech functions of TQs in the prosodically
annotated dialogues of the London-Lund Corpus of Spoken English (LLC) and
Bergen Corpus of London Teenage Language (COLT).3
In Section 2.1, we will first set out the specific criteria on which our speech
function typology is based, subdividing the criteria into formal, prosodic and con-
versational properties. We will also indicate the relative frequencies of these crite-
ria in the collection of combined LLC and COLT data. In Section 2.2, we will then
2.	 The examples marked with (COLT) are from the Bergen Corpus of London Teenage Lan-
guage and those followed by (LLC) from the London-Lund Corpus. The data from COLT and
LLC were taken from the ICAME CD-ROM. The prosodic marking in LLC includes the follow-
ing symbols: / rise; \ fall; /\ rise-fall; \/ fall-rise; – level; # end of tone unit; ^ silent onset; . brief
pause; – unit pause of one stress unit; ‘ normal stress; “ heavy stress; : higher pitch level than
preceding syllable; ! booster higher than preceding pitch prominent syllable; [ ] partial words or
phonetic symbols; {} subordinate tone unit; * simultaneous talk; (( )) incomprehensible words;
VAR various speakers; [@:] transcription of hesitation ‘uh’. COLT’s more restricted additional
marking includes: . . . (3) long pause of 3 s; [ ] simultaneous talk.
3.	 We rely on the transcriptions included in the corpora and had no access to the sound files.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
set out our typology of the speech functions of TQs. As we will show, the different
speech function types can be distinguished from each other on the basis of clusters
of distinct statistical tendencies: each speech function favours some specific values
within certain formal and semantic parameters.
The diversity of the LLC and COLT corpora in terms of the temporal prov-
enance and age of their speakers immediately raises questions with regard to
the generalizability of analytical findings based on them. This is one of the
main issues that we will tackle in this article. In Section 3 we will compare the
relative frequencies of the various speech functions of TQs in the two corpora,
and of their formal and conversational features. We will firstly verify whether
TQs realize the same speech function types in the two corpora. We will also
examine whether certain relative frequencies in the combined data that are not
predicted by for instance Quirk et al.’s (1985) description, such as the rela-
tively low frequency of real question uses and the sizeable portion of state-
ments expecting no response, are caused by the COLT data, in which the
teenagers might be affecting a distinct speech style. We will, in other words,
identify the similarities and differences between the analysed data from the
two corpora to assess if there is enough ground to use our speech function
categorization for TQs in general.
The minor statistically significant differences that remain will be looked at in
Section 4. We will examine if they can be correlated with differences in temporal
provenance, age and gender of the speakers in the two corpora. An explanatory
factor of different uses and properties of TQs that has been put forward in the lit-
erature is gender, with women being claimed to use TQs more frequently and with
more rising tones on tags than men (e.g. Lakoff 1975; Case 1988). On the basis of
metatextual annotation of the data, including age, gender and social roles, such
possible sociolinguistic explanations will be considered.
2.	 Speech functions and properties of tag questions
The speech function typology we will present in this section builds partly on
Axelsson’s (2011) typology, which takes Halliday Matthiessen’s (2004) speech
function analysis as theoretical framework. Like Axelsson (2011), we recognize
that TQs can realize questions, statements, commands, offers, and, most typically,
what we refer to as statement-question blends. We also point out that TQs can
even realize responses to questions or statements, which received little attention
in the literature so far. This typology is based on a more comprehensive set of
formal, prosodic and conversational features than has been considered in quali-
tative and quantitative descriptions of TQs up to this point. Section 2.1. sets out
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
these properties and in Section 2.2, we propose our typology of the speech func-
tions of TQs.
2.1	 Tag question properties
The speech functions of TQs are assumed to be signalled by the formal properties
of clause type and modality, and the polarity of anchor and tag, as well as by pro-
sodic properties. The relevant intonation features are: the tone of the tag, the num-
ber of tone units, and the tone patterns across anchor and tag (Bald 1979; Ladd
1981). On the semantic-pragmatic side, the most relevant conversation features
are: (i) whether the speech participant uttering the TQ is the primary knower
(who has the information) or secondary knower (who lacks information) (Labov
& Fanshel 1977); (ii) whether the TQ is part of an adjacency pair and, if so, which
part; (iii) position in the turn (Andersen 1998); (iv) presence or absence, and type,
of response (Axelsson 2011). For all these parameters we discuss the values rele-
vant to the speech functions of TQs, with reference to the relative frequencies of
the values in the combined dataset visualized in Table 1.
Table 1.  General properties of TQs and their values with relative frequencies
in LLC-COLT dataset.
Polarity % Tone type % Tone on tag %
Positive-negative 71 Separate tone unit 76 Fall
Negative-positive 17
No separate tone unit
Post-nuclear   8 24 Rise
Positive-positive 11 Pre-nuclear   5 Fall-rise
Negative-negative Compound tone 11 Rise-fall
Level
No tone*
Position % Response %
Turn-final 70 Response Confirmation 42 62
Turn-medial 30 Disagreement   8
Non-confirmative 12
No Response 32
Uninterpretable   6
*No tone: There is no pitch change on the tag, but there is one on the anchor clause. These are called post-
nuclear tags.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
2.1.1	 Clause type and modality
In reference grammars such as Quirk et al (1985), Huddleston and Pullum (2002),
and Aarts and McMahon (2006), the illocutionary force of TQs is related to the
mood and clause type of the anchor, leading to the distinction between declarative,
imperative and exclamative TQs (Quirk et al 1985: 810–816). We will approach the
speech functions of TQs in terms of the combination of clause type and modality,
as did Axelsson (2011). Almost all examples in the COLT and LLC datasets have
declarative anchors, while only 1% has an imperative anchor. However, commands,
offers or advice are not only coded by imperative anchors as in (5). The anchor is
actually more often a declarative as in (6a) and (7). It is thus “the interaction be-
tween mood, clause types and modal verbs” (Verstraete 2001) that is crucial to
determine the speech function, as first pointed out with regard to TQs by Axelsson
(2011: 177–200).
	 (5)	 [@:] ^come and ‘sit “:h\/ere ‘will you# (LLC)
	 (6)	 A:	 and I`ll ^post !\off ‘Rita`s ‘parcel sh/all I#
		 B:	 [@:] ^y\es# ^c/ould you# (LLC)
	 (7)	 A:	 You will be c\areful with that#, w\on’t you#
		 B:	 Y-eah# (COLT)
2.1.2	 Polarity of anchor and tag
Traditionally two types of polarity patterns in TQs are distinguished: reversed versus
constant polarity. This leads to a further subdivision into positive-negative, negative-
positive, positive-positive and negative-negative polarity. As shown in Table 1, the
default polarity pattern found in face-to-face conversations is positive-negative polar-
ity (71%). Negative constant polarity is exceptional, while negative-positive and pos-
itive-positive polarity take up only a small portion of the data, namely 17% and 11%.
2.1.3	 Intonation
The important prosodic distinctions are whether or not the tag has a separate tone
unit, and what that tone is (Bald 1979; Ladd 1981). The default intonational pattern
of TQs is a separate tone unit for the anchor and for the tag as in (7). 76% of the
cases have a separate tone unit on the anchor and the tag, while 24% do not, as in (5).
The latter is an example of a post-nuclear tag, where there is a pitch change on the
anchor clause, but not on the tag. With only 8%, these are not frequent. Tag ques-
tions with a pre-nuclear anchor, i.e. only a pitch change on the tag as in (8), are not
frequent either (5%). In 11% of the corpus examples, the TQ has a compound tone,
where there is a change of pitch on the anchor and on the tag, but there is no separate
tone unit. These TQs usually have a fall on the anchor and a rise on the tag as in (9).
Rises on the tag are not frequent at all. Only 16% of all TQs in our data have a rise.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
Moreover, these rises usually coincide with one of the tone types that do not have a
separate tone unit for the anchor and the tag (6, 9). This finding is surprising if we
confront it with Quirk et al’s (1985) analysis of TQs: they state that the subtype of
declarative TQs inviting verification, which is not presented as a minor option, typi-
cally has a separate rising tone on the tag. Falls, in fact, are the default tones on the
tag, predominantly combined with a separate tone unit for each part, e.g. (7).
	 (8)	 he’s hairy \ain’t he# (COLT)
	 (9)	 C:	 +how long+ do you anticipate staying on this particular thing
*Frank*
		 A:	 *well* I`m sup^p\/osed to be _doing# a ^Ph!\D you s/ee#
		 B:	 ( – simulated laugh) we ^heard !th\at ten y/ears ago#
		 A:	 ^y\eah# – – ^and the !Ph’D – .
		 B:	 but you ^haven`t got !!t\ime now h/ave you#
		 A:	 ^y\es# I ^h\ave# .
		 B:	 *((^h/ave you#))* (LLC)
2.1.4	 Conversational features
A first conversational feature that is relevant to identify the speech function of TQs
is their position in the turn. As observed by Axelsson (2011: 125), “[i]n many de-
scriptions of tag questions, one may get the impression that these are normally
found at the end of turns, the speaker leaving the floor to another speaker”. This is
not the case, and it is therefore important to determine whether the TQ is uttered
at the end of a turn, i.e. is turn-final, or whether it appears in the middle of a turn,
i.e. turn-medial. Example (9) is a turn-final TQ and (10) is a turn-medial TQ. In
the case of turn-medial TQs, we further investigate whether the part after the TQ
is a modification and/or if the TQ is followed by a pause (11). These features might
indicate that the speaker is giving the floor to a co-participant in the dialogue even
though turn-medial TQs are considered to be floor-holding devices. The majority
of the corpus examples (70%) are turn-final and thus turn-yielding.
	 (10)	 you ^don`t* ‘really ‘learn ‘much from !th\at# ^d\o you# you`ve ^got to be
t\old a’bout# – [@:] ^whether ‘you`re too f/ast# or too **^sl/ow#**
(LLC)
	 (11)	 so . her ^recollection in De:cember ‘nineteen ‘sixty-f/our# . is ^wr\ong /is
‘it# – on ^that /aspect# – – (LLC)
To understand whether or not a TQ is conducive to a response and what the orienta-
tion of the TQ is, it is revealing to take a closer look at the responses by the co-par-
ticipants and how these responses are received by the speaker. We learn from Table
1 that most TQs are conducive to a response (62%), but that, still, a surprisingly high
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
number (32%) is not, as was also noted by Axelsson (2011: 137) and Andersen (1998:
7). In the case where there is a response, it is a confirmation in 42% of the data as in
(7). With a frequency as low as 8%, it becomes clear that TQs are not regularly fol-
lowed by a disagreement, as in (9). This is in line with the high number of TQs end-
ing in assertive falls. 12% is followed by an evasive or indecisive answer.
Closely related to the position of the TQ in the turn and the responses it receives,
there is the issue whether or not the TQ is part of an adjacency pair (Schegloff 1972;
Levinson 1983; Martin 1992; Ford 1993) and what part of the adjacency pair it is.
Turn-medial TQs are usually not responded to and in those cases the TQ is not part
of an adjacency pair (10). The default TQ, however, is a part of an adjacency pair and
more in particular the first pair part as in (9). It initiates the adjacency pair. A small
number of TQs is the second part of the adjacency pair. They are responses (12).
	 (12)	 A:	 what’s wr\ong with it#
		 B:	 it’s dead \innit# (COLT)
The last property to consider is the source of knowledge. When the speaker is the
source of knowledge or the primary knower (Berry 1981) the exchange is an A-event
(Labov 1972: 301; Labov & Fanshel 1977; see also Heritage 2012). In example (10)
the speaker is the one who already has the information. B-events, as in (9), by con-
trast, are exchanges initiated by the person seeking the information (Martin 1992).
In extending the distinction between primary and secondary knowers to utterances
negotiating desired action, Martin (1992: 48--50) defines the relevant roles associ-
ated with the speakers as the primary actor, the one responsible for actually carrying
out the action, and the secondary actor, the one involved in deciding on the desir-
ability of the action but not carrying it out. Demanding TQs, such as (5), are thus
classified as B-events, while offers, such as (6), count as A-events. The speaker proj-
ects that s/he valorizes the other speaker as knower, e.g. (13).
	 (13)	 A:	 gonna have a good y\ear#. cos I mean we had two cr\ap years hadn’t
we#, w\ell#.
		 B:	 two cr\ap years#, diab\olical#. now th\is year might be all r/ight#
(COLT)
If we put together the relative frequencies for all the features in Table 1, we can
conclude that the prototypical TQ has a declarative as host clause with a reversed
positive-negative polarity pattern over the anchor and tag. Each part has a separate
tone unit and the tone on the tag is a fall. These TQs initiate the adjacency pair
and, as suggested by their turn-final position, they expect a response. More in
particular, they expect a confirmation. Having discussed all the properties relevant
to speech function, we can now turn to using these characteristics as criteria for
the classification of TQs with regard to their speech functions.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
2.2	 Classification of tag question speech functions
As noted in the introduction, TQs are viewed mainly as devices for asking for in-
formation or making requests and offers in reference grammars of English, but in
actual usage they are also used to give information in the form of statements and
responses. Moreover, as we will argue, the most typical speech function of TQs
combines characteristics from statements and questions, and is thus best viewed as
a statement-question blend. In this section, we will present our typology of the
speech functions of TQs, which covers all the main uses observed in the data:
questions, statements, statement-question blends, commands/offers, responses,
and ambiguous uses. We will typify each speech function expressed by TQs in
terms of the properties described in Section 2.1.
As we will show, the different speech function types can be distinguished from
each other on the basis of clusters of distinct statistical tendencies: each speech
function favours some specific values within certain formal and semantic param-
eters. Table 2 represents the typical features of each TQ speech function type.
These specific values were found to be relevant for each speech function because
they predominate in terms of relative frequencies for the speech function in ques-
tion (Kimps, Davidse & Cornillie 2014).4 The significance of these features was
also tested by X2-tests, which are reproduced in Appendix 1.
2.2.1	 Question TQs
TQs are used as real questions in only a minority, about one sixth, of cases in our
data. The crucial semantic-pragmatic characteristic of a question TQ is that the
speaker is not the primary knower. S/he is truly seeking information that s/he does
not have. The exchange is therefore a B-event and it is conducive to a response
which is reflected by the TQ’s turn-final position and the fact that it initiates an
adjacency pair. TQs expressing a questioning speech function do not necessarily
expect a confirmation. This is confirmed by a relatively high number of disagree-
ments as responses. The speaker is uncertain about the outcome of the response
and has no strong expectations. Moreover, question TQs also have distinct formal
properties.
	 (14)	 A:	 he ^says the con!traction ‘makes it quite n/ormal# but the ^other d\
oesn`t# – – –
		 B:	 you`re ^s\ure of that /are you#
		 A:	 ^y\eah# – ^pretty c\/ertain# – – – be^cause I ‘mean ‘I was ‘I was a!{gr\
eeing} with :what the !t\ext said# (LLC)
4.	 The relative frequencies of the values associated with each speech function are discussed in
detail in Kimps, Davidse & Cornillie (2014).
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
Table 2.  Main properties of speech function types.5
TQ types
Statements
S-Q
blends
Questions
Desired
actions
Ambiguous
Responses
Conversational
properties
turn-medial turn-final turn-final [turn-final] [turn-final] depends on
AP 1
not part of
AP
initiate AP initiate AP initiate (AP) [initiate AP] response to
AP 1
not condu-
cive to
response
conducive to
response
conducive to
response
conducive to
response (not
verbal)
[conducive to
response]
depends on
AP 1
Formal
properties
fall fall rise [fall] depends on
AP 1
separate tone
unit
separate tone
unit
no separate
tone unit:
compound
tone +
post-nuclear
tags
no separate
tone unit
(pre-nuclear)
[separate tone
unit]
depends on
AP 1
positive-
negative
polarity
positive-
negative
polarity
positive-
positive
polarity
positive-
positive
polarity
positive-
negative
polarity
depends on
AP 1
Knowledge
A-events A(B)-events B-events B-events [A-events] AB-events
	 (15)	 A:	 ^w/ell# you must ^say what you ‘want for a :pr\esent# – – cos ^I I
^don`t know whether you`re ‘having. I ^don`t suppose you`re ‘hav-
ing a :l\/ist ‘are you# . ^that`s a bit ‘old “!h\at now I *th/ink#*
		 B:	 *well* we`ve we`ve tried to compile a list for our own purposes
		 A:	 ^y\/es#
		 B:	 ((in)) answer to such **questions** (LLC)
5.	 The properties between square brackets are deemed relevant on the basis of their relative
frequencies, but the differences are not significant according to the X2-tests (see Appendix 1).
This is mainly the case for ambiguous TQs, which are very low in frequency
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
The intonation of TQs realizing questions is one of their most distinctive features.
The tag typically has a rise, but mostly as part of a compound tone (14). A smaller
subset has a post-nuclear tag often continuing the rising contour of the anchor
(15). The rise on the tag conveys the speaker’s lack of certainty. TQs realizing ques-
tions also have constant (positive-positive) polarity in about half of all examples,
e.g. (14).
2.2.2	 Statement TQs
Almost a fourth of the TQs in our data are statements that are not conducive to a
response. Statements are A-events: the speaker is the primary knower (16). The
speaker gives information to the co-participant(s) in the dialogue in an assertive
way and does not expect a response. Most of these TQs occur in the middle of the
current speaker’s turn, with that speaker’s own discourse continuing after them,
and without a noticeable pause or modification. They do not seem to be part of an
adjacency pair as they do not receive a response in most cases. As indicated in
Table 2, questions and statements do not share any conversational properties and
the same is true of their formal properties. Statements are not part of an adjacency
pair, are turn-medial and are not conducive to a response. Questions, on the other
hand, are conducive to a response, show up in turn-final position and are clearly
the first part of the adjacency pair. While questions typically have rises, no sepa-
rate tone units and constant polarity, statements typically carry a fall on the tag,
which has a separate tone unit, and their preferred polarity pattern is positive-
negative, as in example (16).
	 (16)	 A:	 I wouldn’t call him g\enuine# but he’s not two f\aced#,if he doesn’t l\
ike you he t\ells you it# d\oesn’t he# m\ind you# I don’t know#
(COLT)
2.2.3	 Statement-question blend TQs
Almost half of all TQs in our data resist a classification in either the statement or
question category in that they give information and state a specific proposition,
but expect a response, as in (17).
	 (17)	 A:	 and he ^makes this “!!{h\ideous} :g\iggle# ^d\oesn`t he#
		 B:	 *((^yes he d\oes#))*
		 A:	 *and he ^speaks* “!t\en ‘times {^more f\ast than ‘that#}# . (LLC)
These TQs share the conversational properties of questions on the one hand, but
they have the formal properties of statements on the other (see Table 2). We will
therefore refer to them as statement-question blends. Blends crucially involve the
combination of two source forms, selecting only some elements from both, which,
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
however, remain recognizable (Aarts 2007: 192ff), and create a new meaning by
their combination, in which elements from the readings of both source construc-
tions play an essential role. The blending of speech functions involves, at the coding
level, selective mixing of formal features of questions and statement, and, at the se-
mantic-pragmatic level, the creation of a new meaning involving both knowing and
giving of information (typical of statements) and demanding a response (typical of
questions). Conversationally, statement-question blends initiate an adjacency pair in
a turn-final position and they are conducive to a response. These properties nor-
mally point to a questioning speech function. However, the speaker is the primary
knower, and the typically expected response, signalled by a fall, is a confirmation or
acknowledgement (questioning TQs, in which the speaker lacks information, sig-
nalled by a rise, are more open to disagreements.) Formally, statement-question
blends have declarative anchors and only very occasionally an epistemic modal aux-
iliary. Consonant with their level of assertiveness and certainty, they have mostly
positive-negative polarity, conveying the assumption that the proposition is true.
They have a fall on the tag and separate tone units by default, which expresses the
assertive tone of statement TQs. They constitute the most typical uses of TQs.
2.2.4	 Response TQs
About one tenth of TQs in our dataset function as a response. Response TQs are
the second part of an information-oriented adjacency pair. The first part of the
pair may be a statement, a wh-question, a polar question or another TQ. TQs re-
sponding to a statement express an acknowledgement of the previous proposition
(18). They tend to have a separate tone unit and a falling tone on the tag.
	 (18)	 A:	 Dan’s b\oxing day thing# was really really really sh\it#
		 B:	 it w\as actually# w\asn’t it# (COLT)
TQs responding to another TQ resemble TQs acknowledging statements (19).
	 (19)	 A:	 *but ^where* . It`s ^so !b\ig {\isn`t ‘it#}#
		 B:		 it`s ^gi!g\antic {^\isn`t *it#*}# (LLC)
TQs may also provide the answer to a wh-question (20) or a polar question (21).
These responses share many conversational and formal features, including the fact
that, in about two thirds of cases, the speaker answers his or her own question, as
in (21).
	 (20)	 A:	 ^what h\appens# ^this ‘comes right \/off does it#
		 B:	 no it screws in tight and the [@:m] (LLC)
	 (21)	 A:	 would ^that _h/elp you# I ^think it !probably !w\ould# ^w\ouldn`t
*it#* (LLC)
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
2.2.5	 Command and offer TQs
TQs negotiating desired action, instead of information, are quantitatively minor
uses. The speaker initiates the exchange by demanding or offering/advising desired
action. These TQs inherently expect the response of the hearer complying with the
action, but a verbal response is not really necessary. The basic distinction between
demanding and offering desired action contextualizes into various subtypes that
TQs can express (Kimps & Davidse, 2008). The two contextual factors moulding
these subtypes are dominance of, and benefits to, either speaker or hearer. At the
‘demanding’ end, we find commands (22), understood as actions beneficial to and
desired by the speaker. The ‘offering’ end is the locus of advice (24), and offers (25),
actions judged beneficial and desirable to the hearer by the speaker. In-between
demanding and offering, we find proposals for joint action (23), which are pre-
sented as benefiting speaker and hearer equally. They combine both an offer by the
speaker and a command to the hearer to carry out action (Axelsson 2011: 65).
	 (22)	 you know, P\at# don’t d\on’t say that# w/ill you# (COLT)
	 (23)	 well ^let’s think about the pr\esent sh/all we# (LLC)
	 (24)	 A:	 you will be c\areful with that#, w\on’t you#
		 B:	 y-eah# (COLT)
	 (25)	 ^r\/ight# ^sit down h/ere would you# (LLC)
The formal properties of desired action TQs resemble those of question TQs: they
do not have a separate tone unit and they have positive constant polarity in a
significant number of cases. However, depending on the subtypes (illustrated in
22–25), the formal properties may differ.
2.2.6	 Ambiguous TQs
A remaining small set of TQs, 1% of our data, is ambiguous between exchanging
information or desired action. They have declarative anchors with modal auxilia-
ries such as have to and can, which typically describe the existence of obligation or
ability (Nuyts 2001; Verstraete 2001), but which can invite inferences of the speak-
er imposing obligation on him- or herself, as in (26), or of the speaker expressing
(un)willingness to carry out the action (27). Because ambiguous TQs are close to
statements, one might classify them as exchanging A-events. These TQs have a fall
and a separate tone unit on the tag. They usually have positive-negative polarity.
	 (26)	 A:	 are you going to <unclear> tomorrow#
		 B:	 y-eah# I’ve bloody g\ot to# h\aven’t I# (COLT)
	 (27)	 A:	 couldn’t you m\ake her give you your m\oney then#
		 B:	 well I can= I can’t say give me your m\oney# when she hasn’t g\ot it#
c\an I# (COLT)
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
In conclusion to Section 2.2 we can note that, when we combine the findings rep-
resented in Table 1 and Table 2, statement-question blends clearly have all the
typical properties of TQs in general. Moreover, TQs expressing questions and de-
sired actions attract the marked or infrequent formal properties. TQs functioning
as a statement, on the other hand, are marked because of their untypical conversa-
tional characteristics. Having characterized the different types of speech functions
that TQs can fulfill and having described the main properties of each type, we can
now turn to the distribution of each subtype in the whole of the data and in each
corpus separately.
3.	 TQs in LLC and COLT: Distribution of speech functions of TQs
and their properties
In this section we will report on the distribution of each TQ speech function type
in the whole of the data and in each corpus separately. Our aim in doing this is to
solve the following questions. Are there any speech functions typical of a certain
corpus and does that affect the overall frequencies? Does it, in turn, influence the
representation of a certain property? And more importantly, is the above proposed
classification applicable to all TQs found in today’s spontaneous English speech?
Or is it idiosyncratic for a specific corpus or group of people? To tackle these ques-
tions, we will first briefly explain the specifics of the data (3.1), followed by a quan-
titative analysis of each speech function type in all of the data and for each corpus
separately (3.2). We will also compare the relative frequencies of the different
properties in each corpus (3.3).
3.1	 Description of the LLC and COLT datasets
The choice of the corpora used for this research was influenced, and also limited,
by our interest in the intonational patterns of TQs. The London-Lund Corpus of
Spoken English (LLC) and the Bergen Corpus of London Teenage Language
(COLT) both contain transcriptions of spontaneous British English conversations
with prosodic annotation. COLT is a corpus of transcribed conversations of teen-
agers. It was recorded in 1993 and it contains a subcorpus of about 150,000 words
with prosodic information. The LLC, on the other hand, is collected speech of adult
and educated speakers of British English. It derives from two projects, namely the
Survey of English Usage (SEU) at University College London, and the Survey of
Spoken English (SSE), started at Lund University (Svartvik 1990). The prosodi-
cally annotated texts were recorded between 1953 and 1987.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
COLT LLC
Conversation disparates 34 101
Conversation equals 307 408
Conversation between ? 15 0
Sermon 0 1
Spontaneous commentary 0 17
Spontaneous oration 0 18
Telephone convers. business ass. 0 34
Telephone convers. disparates 0 22
Telephone convers. equals 0 27
Committee meeting 0 6
Cases in court 0 3
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Figure 1.  TQs found in different text types of COLT and LLC.
Since all COLT conversations are spontaneous (see Figure 1), we limited the anal-
ysis to face-to-face conversations in LLC and discarded the TQs found in tele-
phone conversations, orations, commentaries, court cases, etc. In any case, 87% of
the retrieved TQs occur in face-to-face conversations and the presence or absence
of the discarded TQs does not impact on the frequencies of the speech functions
of the TQs, as shown in Appendix 2. By this action, the prosodically annotated
subcorpus of LLC was reduced from 500,000 words to 320,000. After the discard-
ing of TQs not tagged as conversations between either equals or disparates,6 our
dataset retained 341 TQs from COLT and 509 TQs from LLC, totaling 850 TQs.
3.2	 Distribution of the TQ speech functions in LLC and COLT
The 850 TQs were categorized according to the criteria described in Section 2.1.
Table 3 lists the absolute, relative and normalized frequencies for each speech
function type per corpus and for the total dataset. In the bottom rows, the absolute
6.	 By this action we also excluded a small number of TQs which had not received a tag due to
lack of information.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
figures are augmented with their Adjusted Pearson Residuals, which are the indi-
vidual contributions to the Pearson χ2 statistic. If the Adjusted Pearson Residual is
equal to or higher than 2 this is indicated in the PR-total row. There is then a sig-
nificant difference in the distribution of the speech function in question in the
datasets from the two corpora. If it is lower than 2, there is no significant difference
(n.s.) in distribution between the two corpora for that speech function.
When we take all the data from the face-to-face conversations in COLT and
LLC into account, it becomes clear that TQs are certainly not typically used as real
information-seeking questions. Only in 16% do TQs seek verification, while they
function as a statement in 23% of the cases. The largest group (46%) is formed by
the statement-question blends. A mere 3% of all the TQs found in the data is a
desired action, and 1% of the examples is ambiguous between expressing a desired
action or a statement. A surprisingly high percentage is a response, namely 10%.
Even though there are some differences between the frequencies of the speech
function types in COLT and LLC, it is important to point out that all speech func-
tion types are found in each of the two corpora (see Table 3 and Figure 2). If we
home in on the similarities and differences for the individual speech functions, we
can note the following. Firstly, the state ment-question blends are equally common
in both corpora (43% and 47%). The Pearson χ2 test results indicate that there is no
Table 3.  AF: absolute frequency, RF: relative frequency in %, NF: normalized frequency per
100,000 words and PR: Adjusted Pearson Residuals of speech function types per corpus.
TQ Types
S-Q
blends
Statements
Questions
Responses
Desired
actions
Ambiguous
Uninterpret.
Total
AF total 388 198 134 85 25 10 10 850
AF COLT 147 94 24 45 18 5 8 341
AF LLC 241 104 110 40 7 5 2 509
RF total 46% 23% 16% 10% 3% 1% 1% 100%
RF COLT 43% 28% 7% 13% 5% 1% 2% 40%
RF LLC 47% 20% 22% 8% 1% 1% 0% 60%
NF total 83 42 29 18 5 2 2 181
NF COLT 98 63 16 30 12 3 5 227
NF LLC 75 33 34 13 2 2 1 159
PR total n.s. >2 >2 >2 >2 n.s. – –
PR COLT –0.9 2.6 –5.9 2.6 3.3 0.6 – –
PR LLC 0.9 –2.6 5.9 –2.6 –3.3 -0.6 – –
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
significant difference for this speech function type between the two corpora. The
general high percentage (46%) and the fact that the distribution is similar in COLT
and LLC signal that these TQs represent the typical speech function type of TQs.
Secondly, even the speech functions not commonly associated with TQs, such as
statements and responses, are not limited to the teenagers of COLT, nor to the
academics of LLC. However, statements are more frequent in COLT with 28%
versus 20% in LLC, and TQs functioning as a response appear in 13% of the cases
in COLT versus in 8% of the examples in LLC. Question TQs, thirdly, are also
present in both corpora, but the frequencies diverge strongly: 7% versus 22%.
Fourthly, desired action TQs are uncommon in both corpora, though COLT con-
tains 4% more than LLC. The ambiguous TQs, lastly, represent only 1% in both
COLT and LLC, with no significant difference between them. In sum, despite the
disparate corpora and the varying frequencies, we can conclude that the proposed
categorization brings out the main speech functions of TQs found in spontaneous
conversation in British English, and not only in a specific corpus.
At the same time, the LLC and COLT speakers do show significant prefer-
ences for a couple of speech function types. Firstly, the frequency of TQs express-
ing a question is considerably lower in COLT (7%) than in LLC (22%). According
to the Adjusted Pearson Residual (5.9) the difference is highly significant. This
type of TQ seems to be typical of the LLC speakers, as no other type is biased
towards the LLC corpus. The COLT speakers, on the other hand, use relatively
more TQs expressing statements, responses and desired actions. The asymmetry is
S-Q blends Statements Questions Responses Desired
actions
Ambiguous Uninterpret.
COLT 43.11% 27.57% 7.04% 13.20% 5.28% 1.47% 2.35%
LLC 47.35% 20.43% 21.61% 7.86% 1.38% 0.98% 0.39%
0.00%
5.00%
10.00%
15.00%
20.00%
25.00%
30.00%
35.00%
40.00%
45.00%
50.00%
Figure 2.  Relative frequencies of TQ speech function types in COLT and LLC
with innit tags.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
largest for desired actions: 5% versus 1% for COLT with a Pearson Residual of 3.3.
The difference in distribution of responses and statements in COLT and LLC is
comparable, with a Pearson Residual of 2.6. Figure 2 visualizes how the categories
resemble communicating vessels in their distribution over the two corpora. While
COLT clearly has fewer information-seeking TQs, i.e. question TQs, it compen-
sates with a higher number of statements and desired action TQs.
These differences in the distribution are magnified by the presence of 95 in-
variant innit tags in COLT, and their absence in LLC. An innit TQ is formally in-
variant (28), but “it appears to retain elements of grammatical features which it
does not share with other invariant tags” (Stenström & Andersen, 1996). Innit is
thus “gradually becoming an invariant tag in London teenage conversations”
(Stenström, Andersen & Hasund, 2002), even though “it is clearly the most fa-
voured subject, and is is the most favoured predicator” (Tandberg 1996: 83), as in
(29). If the innit-tags in COLT are left out of consideration, the distribution of the
different speech functions in the LLC and COLT datasets is as follows: 47% vs.
42% statement question blends, 22% vs. 10% of question TQs, 20% and 26% of
statement TQs, and 8% and 13% of response TQs, 1% vs. 7% desired action TQs,
and 1% vs. 1% ambiguous (see Appendix 3).
	 (28)	 [ah] but you’re going on T\uesday# at f\ive#, half past f\ive innit#
(COLT)
	 (29)	 it’s real f\unny# \innit# (COLT)
However, although the innit tags magnify the different relative frequencies of the
TQ speech functions in LLC and COLT, they do not affect the generalizability of
the analysis. We have found TQs with an innit tag in every speech function catego-
ry. Thus, they are not limited to a certain speech function type. Furthermore, the
Pearson χ2 test results (see Appendix 4) show that the impact of innit on the speech
functions is not significant. The presence of innit TQs does, however, influence the
normalized frequencies. With the innit TQs, for instance, we see considerably
more TQs per 100,000 words in COLT than in LLC (see Table 3), viz. 227 for
COLT and 159 for LLC. Without innit, the normalized frequencies become 163 for
COLT and 159 for LLC, which is very comparable. Since we do not have many
examples of TQs with prosodic information in general, and in COLT in particular,
we have included the invariant innit TQs in this analysis.
3.3	 Distribution of TQ properties in LLC and COLT
The speech function variation between COLT and LLC correlates strongly with
differences in the frequencies of the properties. This is not surprising since spe-
cific values of the properties are associated with certain speech functions. Thus, if
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
a certain speech function is used more in one corpus, then its typical properties
will also be more frequent in accordance. Table 4 represents the formal properties
of TQs per corpus, while Table 5 contains the conversational properties of TQs per
corpus. The tables show the relative frequencies of each property per corpus and
the Pearson Residuals.
As mentioned in Section 3.2, TQs used as questions are much more frequent in
LLC than in COLT. These TQs have distinct typical formal properties, such as pos-
itive-positive polarity, rises on the tag and compound tones (see Table 2). As a re-
sult, these properties are also much more frequent in LLC than in COLT. There is a
high correlation between LLC and positive-positive polarity patterns in TQs, on
the one hand, and LLC and rises on the tag, on the other. Compound tones are also
more often used by LLC speakers, but the difference is less pronounced. Converse-
ly, falls on the tag are more frequent in COLT, which might follow from the higher
representation of statements and responses. The significantly higher use of pre-
nuclear anchors in COLT is linked to the more frequent use of desired actions TQs.
The number of TQs with separate tone units used in LLC is slightly higher, but this
does not seem to link up with a speech function type that is more common in LLC.
Table 4.  Distribution of formal properties per corpus with Pearson Residuals (PR)
and their relative frequencies (%).
Polarity
Positive-negative Negative-positive Positive-positive Negative-negative
COLT PR n.s. n.s. -4.1 2.4
% 75 18 5 2
LLC PR n.s. n.s. 4.1 -2.4
% 69 16 15 0
Tone on tag
Fall Rise Fall-rise Rise-fall Level No tone
COLT PR 4.1 -3.6 n.s. -4.0 n.s. n.s.
% 80 11 0 0 1 8
LLC PR -4.1 3.6 n.s. 4.0 n.s. n.s.
% 67 20 1 5 0 8
Tone type
Separate tone unit Post-nuclear Pre-nuclear Compound
COLT PR -2.0 n.s. 7.8 -2.7
% 73 8 12 7
LLC PR 2.0 n.s. -7.8 2.7
% 79 8 0 13
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
There is also a significantly higher use of negative-negative polarity TQs in COLT,
but, again, this does not seem to correspond with a specific speech function. The
distribution of reversed polarity patterns, finally, is not specific to COLT or LLC.
Regarding the conversational properties of TQs (Table 5), there are also differ-
ences in distribution between COLT and LLC. In the first place, COLT contains
more TQs which are not part of an adjacency pair. This corresponds with the higher
number of statements used in COLT: the vast majority of statements is not part of an
adjacency pair (83%). COLT also shows a preference for TQs in the second pair part
of the adjacency pair, which is a property of responses. On the other hand, being the
first pair part is typical of TQs in LLC. This is influenced by the low frequency of
statements and responses, and the high frequency of questions in LLC. Closely re-
lated to the higher frequency of TQs in the first part position of adjacency pairs is
the significantly higher number of confirmations to TQs in LLC. The different posi-
tions of the TQ in the turn, finally, are similarly distributed in COLT or LLC.
It has thus become clear that there are some differences in the relative frequen-
cies of the speech function types between LLC and COLT, with the latter containing
fewer question uses, but more instances of statements, responses and commands.
Knowing that the corpora represent different layers of the British English popula-
tion and stem from different time periods, the question arises whether these dif-
ferences are specific for a certain group of speakers and/or due to language change
over the past decades. We will try to shed some light on these questions in the
next section.
Table 5.  Distribution of conversational properties per corpus with Pearson Residuals
(PR) and their relative frequencies (%).
Position in turn AP
Turn-final Turn-medial No AP AP1 AP2
COLT PR n.s. n.s. 3.0 –4.4 2.5
% 73 27 38 49 13
LLC PR n.s. n.s. -3.0 4.4 –2.5
% 68 32 28 64 8
Response
Confirmation Disagreement Non-confir-
mative
No response Uninterpret.
COLT PR –5.9 n.s. n.s. 3.0 3.6
% 30 9 13 38 10
LLC PR 5.9 n.s. n.s. –3.0 –3.6
% 50 8 10 28 4
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
4.	 Explaining the differences between COLT and LLC
In this section, we will investigate the possible impact of the speaker’s age and gen-
der, and his or her status in the conversation, on the different frequencies of some
TQ speech functions (4.1). As information is given per speaker in each corpus, the
examples in our dataset could be metatextually annotated for all these aspects. We
will also look into the possibility of an apparent or real time language change (4.2).
4.1	 Possible impact of speaker’s age, gender and status role
The first apparent divergence between the two corpora is the age of the speakers,
which links up partly with their level of education. The speakers in COLT are
primarily teenagers going through secondary education, while the LLC speakers
are considerably older, ranging from 30– to 60-year-olds, and most have had a
university education. LLC provides detailed information on the speaker’s occupa-
tion in most cases, but the actual level of education of all speakers is not given.
The same is true of the speaker’s social class. On the one hand, COLT classifies the
speakers into a certain social class based on the speaker’s residential borough,
their parents’ occupation and whether their parents are employed or not. Many
speakers belong to the middle and lower class (Stenström et al. 2002), but a fair
amount of speakers are not tagged for social class due to missing background in-
formation. On the other hand, LLC does not assign its speakers to a social class. It
is possible to deduce the social class to a certain extent from occupation tags, such
as ‘judge’ or ‘official’, but labels like ‘housewife’ or ‘employee’ are too vague. In
other words, it was not feasible to develop a background classification for social
class or level of education that would work across the corpora. We will, however,
consider age as one of the determining aspects in the classification of TQs, which
is -due to the specifics of each corpus- linked to a certain extent with the educa-
tion level of the speaker.
After metatextual tagging of all the TQs from COLT and LLC, we could
establish that there is a difference in the use of speech functions according to age
(see Table 6). Young speakers below the age of 20 show relative preferences for
responses, statements and desired actions. This corresponds completely with the
higher frequency of these TQs in COLT as this corpus contains almost all adoles-
cent speakers in our dataset. Conversely, question TQs are typical of speakers be-
tween the age of 20 and 40, and they are even more prominent among speakers
who are 40 years old and older according to the Pearson Residuals. The statement-
question blends, however, are not used more often by a specific age group. They are
rather neutral with regard to age, which further confirms their status of prototypi-
cal TQ. We can conclude that, except for the common statement-question blends
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
and the highly infrequent ambiguous TQs, age has an impact on the distribution
of TQ speech functions.
The second speaker-related factor is his/her social role, or the relative status
or power between the participants (Biber & Conrad 2009). This has a modest
impact on the speech function types of TQs. In our data, most TQs occur in con-
versations between equals (84%) and only in 16% between disparates. The latter
occur more often in LLC (20%), while they are less common in COLT (10%). The
social role, then, only correlates with a significant difference in distribution for
desired actions. According to the Pearson Residual of 2.2, these TQs are typically
uttered between disparates and not equals. Yet, the age statistics indicate that TQs
expressing a desired action are produced by young speakers (<20), and in most
cases, they only occur when the conversation is between equals. Or in other
words, these TQs are often uttered by teenagers in conversations with other teen-
agers. Whenever the conversation takes place between disparates, the speaker of
the desired action TQ is the older person who is in charge, i.e. the teacher or par-
ent. The relative status between participants does not seem to affect the distribu-
tion of the other speech function types in these spontaneous face-to-face conver-
sations (see Table 6).
The third speaker aspect is gender. Here, the Pearson Residual χ2 test results
are very straightforward: there is no significant difference depending on gender in
the use of speech functions in our data (see Table 6). This is an interesting finding
since much of the sociolinguistic literature on TQs has concentrated on the differ-
ent speech style of men and women. Calnan and Davidson (1998: 30) summarized
the evolution in the literature as follows:
Table 6.  Possible determinants investigated for speech function distribution.
TQ type
Pearson Residuals
S-Q
blends
Statements
Questions
Responses
Desired
actions
Ambiguous
Age
<20 n.s. 2.8 –5.8 2.9 2.3 n.s.
20–39 n.s. –1.7 2.7 0.1 –2.1 n.s.
>39 n.s. –1.2 3.9 –3.2 –0.3 n.s.
Social
roles
Equals n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. –2.2 n.s.
Disparates n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. 2.2 n.s.
Gender
Male n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s.
Female n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
Research on tag questions really began after Lakoff (1975) made her assertion that
women use more tag questions and that this makes their speech sound less asser-
tive and more tentative. Further research on the issue of whether men or women
do use more tag questions has, however, produced inconsistent results, with some
researchers finding that women use more tag questions (Case 1988; Fishman 1980;
McMillan et al. 1977), other researchers finding that men use more tag questions
(Dubois & Crouch 1975; Lapadat & Seesahai 1977), and others finding that there
is, in fact, no difference between the sexes on how many tag questions they ask
(Baumann 1976). Some researchers have suggested that not all tag questions in-
dicate uncertainty as Lakoff (1975) had earlier suggested. Holmes (1984) suggests
that there are two major types of tag question: affective and modal. [...] Research
using this classification has found that women use more affective tag questions
while men use more modal tag questions (Cameron et al. 1989; Holmes 1984).
In their own research, Calnan & Davidson (1998: 31) found that “there is little dif-
ference in the usage of TQs between men and women” and they suggest that not
gender per se, but the role and “the situation providing the opportunities” have an
important effect. In our data, males produce slightly more TQs than females: 54%
versus 45%, and most of these male speakers are found in the LLC. This is not
altogether surprising, given the nature of the LLC with its high representation of
academic and older speakers. Moreover, the number of LLC corpus examples is
considerably higher than the examples in COLT. This might explain the higher
number of TQs produced by males in our data. This difference, however, does not
follow through in the preference for a specific speech function by one gender,
whether or not the conversation was between males or females only, or both. Table 6
shows that none of the different speech function uses between males and females is
significant. The combination of question TQs produced by males comes close to the
threshold of being significant, i.e. 1.9. However, this is probably a side-effect of the
nature of the data, because there are more male speakers producing TQs in LLC
than in COLT, and the question type is typical of the LLC. Moreover, since males
produce slightly more question TQs they also produce more TQs with rises (see
Appendix 5), and not women as Lakoff (1975) and Case (1988) suggested.7 Our data
and our analysis of speech function types thus do not offer any direct support for the
idea that the production of TQs and/or a specific type of TQs8 is linked to gender.
Rather, our results suggest that Calnan & Davidson are very much on the right track,
7.	 In fact, women produce significantly more TQs with falls. In LLC women talking to other
women even favour the S-Q blends, which have a fall, while men talking to other men favour the
question TQs with rises.
8.	 Admittedly, the speech function subtypes are of a different nature than Holmes’s (1984) clas-
sification, which is a hybrid of speech functions and more attitudinal or pragmatic functions.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
and that the context and nature of the data play a significant role in the analysis
of TQs.
4.2	 Apparent or real time language change?
A final important issue to consider is the time difference between the two corpora.
The oldest LLC conversations were recorded 40 years before COLT in 1953, and
the most recent texts still predate COLT by 6 years. Although the entire time frame
is short, we have investigated whether there are noticeable clines in the speech
function distributions. We have compared the normalized frequencies of each TQ
speech function per 20 years. This means that there are three datasets: one dataset
with TQs from LLC texts recorded between 1953 and 1969, one set of TQs from
LLC texts recorded between 1970 and 1987 and the last set of TQs from COLT
recorded in 1993. Figure 3 clearly indicates that there are no important changes
within the LLC datasets. The higher and lower frequencies of certain speech func-
tions coincide completely with the different corpora. Thus, we cannot make a
strong case for a real time language change, i.e. a change in the language of the
whole population identified from the perspective of at least two different moments
in time (Sankoff 2006; Ashby 2001; Meyerhoff 2006).
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
LLC: 1953–1969 LLC: 1970–1987 COLT: 1993
S-Q blends
Statements
Questions
Responses
Desired actions
Ambiguous
Uninterpretable
Figure 3.  Clines of TQ speech function distributions per 20 years.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
However, we see differences in age, whereby the adolescent speakers have prefer-
ences for atypical TQs such as statements and responses. This might be a sign of
apparent time language change, i.e. a change identified by comparing speakers of
different ages in a single speech community at a single time, under the assumption
that speakers only minimally change the way they speak after the critical period or
in adulthood (Sankoff 2006; Ashby 2001; Meyerhoff 2006), but it is not backed-up
by a preference by women, which is often reported. More likely, though, this is a
case of age grading, which is a “regular association of a variant with a particular
lifestage” (Wagner, 2012). At this stage, it is impossible to determine the answers
to these questions because of the different nature of the two corpora. The problem
is that almost all young speakers are situated in COLT with their specific contexts
of high school conversations, while LLC contains almost all older speakers with
their specific contexts of academic conversations. The differences we see in the use
of speech functions coincide with the differences between the corpora, and thus
with the combined differences between the age groups/social groups, and the
times of recording. The datasets are thus unsuitable to draw a conclusion or to
exclude one of these theories.
5.	 Conclusion
The qualitative and quantitative analysis of the speech functions of TQs in our
COLT and LLC dataset has provided us with a surprising view on TQs. Tag ques-
tions are not commonly used to ask for verification or information. On the con-
trary, they are more often used as a pure statement where the speaker does not
expect a response at all (Figure 2). We have also identified TQs which are, in fact,
a response to a previous question or statement. Furthermore, the most frequent
and typical type of TQ is a blend between statements and questions. These state-
ment-question blends take up almost half of the data. They are not considered to
be ambiguous between statements and questions as they do not fit into either of
the categories. They fundamentally differ from the essence of questions and state-
ments. They do, however, combine characteristics of questions and statements and
fulfill a distinct speech function in dialogue. Throughout our investigation they
have proven to be the most unmarked TQ in our data in every respect. Strikingly,
they are not favoured by a specific corpus, age, role or gender.
The latter was not the case for all speech function types. The LLC speakers
have a clear relative preference for questions, while the COLT participants use
significantly more statements, responses and commands and offers. These varia-
tions are reflected in the different frequencies of TQ properties. In the search for
possible explanations of these differences between the two corpora, we established
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
that age has an impact on the distribution of these speech functions. Relative
status of the participants in the dialogue only affects the frequencies of desired
actions TQs. Gender has no influence on any of the speech function types. Since
the adolescent speakers favour the less typical TQs, such as statements and re-
sponses, we might be dealing with an apparent time language change, or more
likely, age grading. A real time language change is unlikely, though we are strug-
gling with the fact that almost all variation coincides with the differences between
the two corpora, i.e. the differences of the age groups and the times of recording
of LLC and COLT.
Importantly, however, all the speech function types occur in both corpora,
and the prototypical use of TQs, i.e. statement-question blends, is equally frequent
in both corpora and in all layers of our corpus populations. This is, in our view,
proof that the proposed typology applies to spontaneous English conversation in
general. However, further research is necessary to establish whether the decrease
of real question uses and the increase of statement, response and desired action
uses of TQs is a language change (through apparent time or real time), a matter of
age grading, or just a contextual difference.
References
Aarts, B. 2007. Syntactic Gradience. The Nature of Grammatical Indeterminacy. Oxford: OUP.
Aarts, B. & McMahon, A. 2006. The Handbook of English Linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell. DOI:
10.1002/9780470753002
Andersen, G. 1998. Are tag questions questions? Evidence from spoken data. Paper presented at
the 19th ICAME Conference. Belfast, May 1998. <http://gandalf.aksis.uib.no/~gisle/pdf/
BELFAST.pdf> (16 May 2012).
Ashby, W. J. 2001. Un nouveau regard sur la chute du ne en français parlé tourangeau: s’Agit-il
d’un changement en cours? French Language Studies 11: 1–22.
Axelsson, K. 2011. Tag Questions in Fiction Dialogue. PhD dissertation, University of Gothen-
burg. <http://hdl.handle.net/2077/24047> (1 January 2012).
Bald, W.-D. 1979. English tag questions and intonation. In Anglistentag 1979, K. Schumann
(ed.), 263–292. Berlin: Technische Universität.
Baumann, M. 1976. Two features of ‘women’s speech’? In The Sociology of Languages of American
Women, B.L. Dubois, & I. Crouch (eds), 33–40. San Antonio TX: Trinity University.
Berry, M. 1981. Systemic linguistics and discourse analysis: A multi-layered approach to ex-
change structure. In Studies in Discourse Analysis, M. Coulthard & M. Montgomery (eds),
120–145. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
Biber, D. & Conrad, S. 2009. Register, Genre and Style. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/
CBO9780511814358
Calnan, A. & Davidson, M. 1998. The impact of gender and its interaction with role and status
on the use of tag questions in meetings. Women In Management Review 13: 19–36. DOI:
10.1108/09649429810369604
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
Cameron, D., McAlinden, F. & O’Leary, K. 1989. Lakoff in context: The social and linguistic
functions of tag questions. In Women in their Speech Communities: New Perspectives on
Language and Sex, J. Coates, & D. Cameron (eds), 74–93. London: Longman.
Case, S.S. 1988. Cultural differences, not deficiencies: An analysis of managerial women’s lan-
guage. In Women’s Careers: Pathways and Pitfalls, L. Larwood & S. Rose (eds), 41–63. New
York NY: Praeger.
Dubois, B.L. & Crouch, I. 1975. The question of tag questions in women’s speech: they don’t re-
ally use more of them, do they? Language in Society 4: 289–294. DOI: 10.1017/S00474045
00006680
Fishman, P. 1980. Conversational insecurity. In Language: Social Psychological Perspectives, H.
Giles, P. Robinson & P.M. Smith (eds), 127–132. New York NY: Pergamon Press.
Ford, C.E. 1993. Grammar in Interaction: Adverbial Clauses in American English Conversations.
Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511554278
Halliday, M.A.K. & Matthiessen, C. 2004. An Introduction to Functional Grammar, 3rd edn.
London: Arnold.
Heritage, J. 2012. Epistemics in action: Action formation and territories of knowledge. Research
on Language and Social Interaction 45: 1–29. DOI: 10.1080/08351813.2012.646684
Holmes, J. 1984. Hedging your bets and sitting on the fence: Some evidence for hedges as sup-
port structures. Te Reo. Journal of the Linguistics Society of New Zealand 27: 47–62.
Huddleston, R. & Pullum, G. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. Cam-
bridge: CUP.
Kimps, D. & Davidse, K. 2008. Illocutionary force and conduciveness in imperative constant
polarity tag questions: a typology. Text & Talk 28: 699–722. DOI: 10.1515/TEXT.2008.036
Kimps, D., Davidse, K. & Cornillie, B. 2014. A speech function analysis of Britisch English tag
questions in spontaneous dialogue. Journal of Pragmatics 66: 64–85.
Labov, W. 1972. The study of language in its social context. In Language and Social context, P.P.
Giglioli (ed.), 283–307. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Labov, W. & Fanshel, D. 1977. Therapeutic Discourse: Psychotherapy as Conversation. New York
NY: Academic press.
Ladd, R. 1981. A first look at the semantics and pragmatics of negative questions and tag ques-
tions. Proceedings of Chicago Linguistic Society 17: 164–171.
Lakoff, R. 1975. Language and Woman’s Place. New York NY: Harper & Row.
Lapadat, J. & Seesahai, M. 1977. Male versus female codes in informal contexts. Sociolinguistics
Newsletter 8: 7–8.
Levinson, S.C. 1983. Pragmatics. Cambridge: CUP.
Martin, J.R. 1992. English Text. System and Structure. Amsterdam: Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/
z.59
McMillan, J.R., Cliftin, K., McGrath, D. & Gale, W. 1977. Women’s language: Uncertainty or in-
terpersonal sensitivity and emotionality. Sex Roles 3: 545–59. DOI: 10.1007/BF00287838
Meyerhoff, M. 2006. Routledge Sociolinguistics Reader. Glossary. <http://cw.routledge.com/
textbooks/meyerhoff/glossary.asp> (5 July 2013).
Nuyts, J. 2001. Epistemic Modality, Language and Conceptualization [Human Cognitive Process-
ing 5]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/hcp.5
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G. & Svartvik, J. 1985. A Grammar of Contemporary English.
London: Longman.
Sankoff, G. 2006. Age: apparent time and real time. In Elsevier Encyclopedia of Language and
Linguistics, 2nd edn, E.K. Brown & A. Anderson (eds). Boston: Elsevier.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
Schegloff, E.A. 1972. Notes on a conversational practice: Formulating place. In Studies in Social
Interaction, D. Sudnow (ed.), 75–119. New York NY: Free Press.
Stenström A.-B. & Andersen, G. 1996. More trends in teenage talk: A corpus-based investiga-
tion of the discourse items cos and innit. In Synchronic corpus linguistics, C.E. Percy,. C.F.
Meyer & I. Lancashire (eds), 177–190. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Stenström, A.-B., Andersen, G. & Hasund, I. 2002. Trends in Teenage Talk: Corpus Compilation,
Analysis and Findings [Studies in Corpus Linguistics 8]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI:
10.1075/scl.8
Svartvik, J. 1990. The London Corpus of Spoken English: Description and Research [Lund Studies
in English 82]. Lund: Lund University Press.
Tandberg, A. 1996. Innit from a Grammatical and Pragmatic Point of View. MA thesis, Univer-
sity of Bergen.
Verstraete, J.-C. 2001. Subjective and objective modality: Interpersonal and ideational functions
in the English modal auxiliary system. Journal of Pragmatics 33: 1505–1528. DOI: 10.1016/
S0378-2166(01)00029-7
Wagner, S.E. 2012. Age grading in sociolinguistic theory. Language and Linguistics Compass 6:
371–382. DOI: 10.1002/lnc3.343
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
Appendices
The tables show the Adjusted Pearson Residuals, which are the individual contri-
butions to the Pearson χ2 statistic. If the Adjusted Pearson Residual is equal to or
higher than 2 there is a significant difference in the distribution of the property per
speech function. If it is lower than 2, there is no significant difference (n.s.) in the
distribution.
Appendix 1.  Adjusted Pearson Residuals of speech function types per property.
TQ type
S-Q
blends
Statements
Questions
Responses
Desired
actions
Ambiguous
Position
Turn-final   10.2 –16.3 4.6 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Turn-medial –10.2   16.3 –4.6 n.s. n.s. n.s.
AP
Not part of AP –9.8   19.1 –5.8 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Initiate AP 14.1 –14.9 7.8 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Response to AP1 –8.2 –5.0 –4.0 20.4 n.s. n.s.
Response
No response –11.5   17.7 –6.4 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Confirmation 9.3 –11.8 2.9 –2.1 n.s. n.s.
Disagreement n.s. –4.6 5.0 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Non-confirmative 2.1 –3.2 n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s.
Tone
Fall 8.7   4.9 –16.8 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Rise –7.8 –6.2 18.1 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Tone
type
Separate tone unit 5.2   3.2 –10.5 n.s. – 2.4 n.s.
Compound –5.1 –4.4 12.1 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Pre-nuclear n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. 2.7 n.s.
Post-nuclear –2.2 n.s. 4.0 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Polarity
Positive-negative 5.2   2.7 –10.3 n.s. n.s. n.s.
Positive-positive –6.6 –5.1 15.1 n.s. 3.4 n.s.
Negative-positive n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s.
Knowl-
edge
A-event 8.3   10.3 –17.0 –3.1 –6.1 n.s.
AB-event 3.6 –4.7 –5.5 6.7 0.8 n.s.
B-event –13.3 –8.0 25.5 –2.4 6.7 n.s.
	 The speech functions of tag questions 	 
Appendix 2.  Adjusted Pearson Residuals of speech function types in all texts versus
conversations only.
TQ type
S-Q
blends
Statements
Questions
Responses
Desired
actions
Ambiguous
Conversations only 0.4 0.7 –1.3 0.1 –0.3 –0.1
All texts –0.4 –0.7 1.3 –0.1 0.3 0.1
Difference: n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s.
Appendix 3.  Relative frequencies of TQ speech function types in COLT and LLC
without innit tags.
S-Q blends Statements Questions Responses Desired
actions
Ambiguous Uninterpret.
COLT 42.04% 25.71% 8.98% 12.65% 6.53% 0.82% 3.27%
LLC 47.35% 20.43% 21.61% 7.86% 1.38% 0.98% 0.39%
0.00%
5.00%
10.00%
15.00%
20.00%
25.00%
30.00%
35.00%
40.00%
45.00%
50.00%
Appendix 4.  Adjusted Pearson Residuals of TQ speech function types with
and without innit.
TQ type
S-Q
blends
Statements
Questions
Responses
Desired
actions
Ambiguous
With innit –0.0 0.5 –0.9 0.4 –0.1 0.5
Without innit 0.0 –0.5 0.9 –0.4 0.1 –0.5
Difference: n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s. n.s.
	 Ditte Kimps, Kristin Davidse and Bert Cornillie
Appendix 5.  Adjusted Pearson Residuals of tones per gender.
Tone type Rise Fall Rise-fall Fall-rise Level No tone
Female –1.8   3.4 –1.2 –0.4 –0.2 –2.4
Male   1.8 –3.4   1.2   0.4   0.2   2.4
Difference: n.s. >2 n.s. n.s. n.s. >2
Author index
A
Aarts, Bas  33, 204, 322, 325,
331, 345
Adams, Valerie  36, 54, 157
Adamson, Sylvia M.  34, 155, 170
Åkerlund, Alfred  61, 77
Akimoto, Minoji  16, 18, 23, 33,
34, 65, 78
Algeo, John  16, 19, 33
Allerton, D.J.  16, 19, 26, 33, 219,
221, 234, 237
Andersen, Gisle  324, 327, 337,
345, 347
Angermeyer, Phillip
Sebastian  176, 202
Ashby, William J.  343–345
Aston, Guy  188, 198, 202
Axelsson, Karin  322–327, 332,
345
B
Baayen, R. Harald  190, 191, 202
Backhaus, Klaus  190–193, 203
Bald, Wolf-Dietrich  324, 325,
345
Barlow, Michael  1, 10
Barnfield, Katie  152, 154, 170
Bauer, Geio  60, 77, 85, 86, 101,
266, 292
Baumann, Marie  342, 345
Berent, Gerald P.  265, 268, 285,
292
Berman, A.  231, 237
Berry, Margaret  327, 345
Biber, Douglas  3, 10, 89,
100–102, 126, 174, 176, 181, 183,
185, 186, 188, 194–196, 201, 203,
241, 247, 254, 261, 272–276,
291, 292, 296–298, 301, 304,
305, 308, 318, 341, 345
Blanco-Suárez, Zeltia  154, 155,
171
Blom, Corrien  41, 55
Bolinger, Dwight  8, 62, 77, 144,
148, 151, 152, 171, 225, 237
Booij, Geert  55
Boström Aronsson, Mia  296,
311, 315, 318
Brinton, Lauren J.  16–18, 23, 33,
34, 40, 41, 54, 55, 65, 78, 127
Britain, David  28, 34, 100, 101,
105, 115, 119, 126, 244
Brunner, Karl  58, 61, 78
Buchstaller, Isabelle  152, 154, 170
Burnard, Lou  188, 198, 202, 203
Burridge, Kate  175, 179, 180,
203, 204
Butt, Miriam  179, 203
Butters, Ronald R.  106, 127
Bybee, Joan  58, 59, 62, 77, 78
C
Callaway, Morgan  269, 292, 293
Callies, Marcus  296, 307, 317, 318
Calnan, Alison C.T.  341, 342, 345
Cameron, Deborah  154, 301,
342, 346
Carnie, Andrew  225, 237, 239,
261
Case, Susan Schick  323, 342, 346
Chafe, Wallace  144, 148
Chocholousova, Bohumila  296,
317, 318
Chung, Yoon-Suk  241, 246, 261
Claridge, Claudia  16, 19, 33
Clark, Victoria  89, 102
Coates, Jennifer  110, 116, 126,
346
Collins, Peter Craig  1, 10, 102,
205, 245, 261, 296, 300, 304,
317, 318
Comrie, Bernard  59, 78
Conrad, Susan  10, 102, 203, 261,
272–276, 291, 292, 296, 298,
318, 341, 345
Cooper, Christopher  173, 175, 203
Cornillie, Bert  321, 328, 346
Corrigan, Karen P.  106, 126
Cotte, Pierre  85, 102
Cottle, Basil  76, 78
Crawley, Michael J.  190, 203
Crouch, Isabel  342, 345, 346
Crystal, David  52, 55
Culpeper, Jonathan  274, 293
Curme, George O.  40, 55, 243,
261
D
Dagneaux, Estelle  318
Dal, Ingerid  62, 78
Danchev, Andrei  18, 31–33
Davidse, Kristin  171, 321, 328,
332, 346
Davidson, Marilyn J.  341, 342,
345
De Deyne, Simon  1, 10
de la Cruz, Juan M.  37, 40,
49, 55
De Smet, Hendrik  90, 101, 105,
108, 124, 126, 145, 146, 148, 247,
261, 321
Defromont, Hubert J.  100, 102
Delfs, Lauren  10
Delin, Judy  297, 300, 312, 318
Denison, David  19, 33, 58–60,
62, 64, 65, 78, 126, 179, 203, 204
Dennett, Maurice  115, 126
Dennis, Leah  60, 78, 219
Diemer, Stefan  35, 36, 41–43,
50–52, 54, 55
Dik, Simon Cornelis  174, 178,
179, 181, 199, 203
diPaulo Healy, Antonette  20, 33
Docherty, Gerard J.  128
Dollinger, Stefan  116, 126
Donner, Morton  133, 148
Dowty, David  231, 237, 255, 261
Doyle, Aidan  111, 126, 127
Dubois, Bette Lou  342, 345, 346
	 Corpus Interrogation and Grammatical Patterns
E
Ebeling, Signe Oksefjell  55, 171,
299, 318, 319
Elenbaas, Marion  55
Elsness, Johan  59, 62, 78, 81, 82,
84, 85, 89, 93, 97, 101, 102
Emonds, Joseph E.  175, 185, 194,
196, 203
Engel, Dulcie  85, 86, 102
Erdmann, Michael  173, 176, 178,
183, 185, 194, 196, 200, 203
Erichson, Bernd  203
Evert, Stefan  298, 299, 319
F
Facchinetti, Roberta  106, 127
Fanego, Teresa  102, 149, 215,
234, 237
Faulhaber, Susen  225, 237
Fellbaum, Christiane  1, 10
Fennell, Barbara A.  106, 127
Ferris, Connor  144, 148
Field, Andy  1, 74, 87, 114, 190,
191, 194, 203, 204, 215, 216,
298, 300
Field, Zoe  1, 74, 87, 114, 190,
191, 194, 203, 204, 215, 216,
298, 300
Fillmore, Charles  242, 261
Filppula, Markku  105, 113, 127
Finegan, Edward  10, 102, 126,
203, 261, 318
Firth, John Rupert  1, 10
Fischer, Olga  102, 144, 145, 148,
170
Fishman, Pamela M.  342, 346
Fitzpatrick, David  113, 114, 127
Fogg, Peter Walkden  106, 127
Ford, Cecilia E.  327, 346
Foulkes, Paul  128
Francis, Gill  1, 2, 10, 245, 261,
267
Fried, Mirjam  4, 10
G
Gale, Wanda  346
Gardner, Sheena  298, 319
Geeraerts, Dirk  1, 11
Gilquin, Gaëtanelle  296, 318, 319
Givón, Talmy  148, 255, 261
Goldberg, Adele  1, 4, 10, 17, 33,
242, 262, 295, 318
Görlach, Manfred  61, 78
Granger, Sylviane  297, 318, 319
Greenbaum, Sidney  174, 203,
205, 262, 293, 319, 346
Gries, Stefan  1, 2, 10, 191, 193,
194, 203, 237
Gruber, Jeffrey S.  231, 237
Guéron, Jacqueline  175, 203
Gundel, Jeanette K.  296, 297,
300, 304, 312, 317, 318
Gwosdek, Hedwig  76, 78
H
Haegeman, Liliane  175, 203
Haines, Dorothy  33
Halliday, Michael Alexander
Kirkwood  298, 300, 314, 318,
321, 323, 346
Harris, John  100, 102, 176, 180,
185, 186, 192, 194, 196–198,
203
Harris, Martin  100, 102, 176,
180, 185, 186, 192, 194, 196–198,
203
Hartley, Sue  128
Haspelmath, Martin  180, 203,
268, 293
Hasselgård, Hilde  55, 171, 296,
312, 318, 319
Hedberg, Nancy  297, 318
Heritage, John  25, 80, 327, 346
Heuberger, Reinhard  63, 79
Heuboeck, Alois  299, 318
Heylen, Kris  1, 11
Hickey, Raymond  105, 106,
111–113, 119, 124, 125, 127, 171,
204
Hietaranta, Pertti S.  241, 254,
262
Hiltunen, Risto  16, 19, 31, 33, 36,
40, 41, 55
Hinrichs, Lars  86, 89, 102
Hock, Hans Heinrich  18, 33
Hoffmann, Achim  19, 34, 298,
299, 319
Hoffmann, Sebastian  19, 34,
298, 299, 319
Holland, Joan  33, 79, 203
Hollmann, Willem B.  179, 203
Holmes, Janet  342, 346
Hopkins, Edwin A.  79, 178, 186,
203, 293
Hopper, Paul J.  158, 171, 216,
217, 221
Huber, Magnus  177, 203, 204,
272, 293
Huddleston, Rodney  174, 180,
186, 197, 198, 200, 201, 203,
216–219, 221, 322, 325, 346
Hudson, Richard  42, 173, 175,
179, 203
Hughes, Arthur  75, 78, 85
Hundt, Marianne  86, 87, 102,
148, 231, 237
Hunston, Susan  1, 2, 10, 261
I
Ito, Rika  132, 133, 149
J
Jackendoff, Ray  4, 10, 17, 33,
241, 262
Jespersen, Otto  62, 78, 174, 204,
224, 237, 242, 243, 262
Johansson, Mats  296, 310, 312,
313, 316, 319
Johansson, Stig  10, 102, 203,
261, 318
Johnson, Mark  77, 78
Jones, Susan  1, 10, 127, 238
Joseph, Brian D.  18, 33, 63, 79
Joyce, Patrick Weston  106, 127
K
Kallen, Jeffrey L.  106, 114, 127,
152, 170
Kay, Paul  242, 261
Kemmer, Suzanne  1, 10
Kennedy, Arthur Garfield  40, 55
Kiffer, Theodore E.  40, 55
Killie, Kristin  267, 293
Kimps, Ditte  328, 332, 346
Kirk, John M.  106, 114, 126, 127,
152, 162, 170
Kisbye, Torben  269, 271, 280,
293
Kjellmer, Goran  173, 204
Koch, Peter  62, 78
Kohnen, Thomas  266, 269–271,
288, 293
Komen, Johannes A.M.  268, 293
König, Ekkehard  269, 271, 293
Kortmann, Bernd  102, 148,
203–205, 265–271, 277, 285,
288, 292, 293
Kranich, Svenja  58, 61, 62, 71,
72, 76, 78
Kurylowicz, Jerzy  49, 55
Kytö, Merja  19, 20, 24, 34, 274,
293
	 Author index	 
L
Labov, William  324, 327, 346
Labuhn, Ute  65, 78
Ladd, Robert  324, 325, 346
Lakoff, George  77, 78, 323, 342,
346
Lakoff, Robin  77, 78, 323, 342,
346
Lambrecht, Knud  306, 312, 319
Langacker, Ronald W.  199, 204,
240, 241, 246, 262
Lapadat, Judy  342, 346
Lass, Roger  179, 204
Leech, Geoffrey  10, 86, 102, 188,
203–205, 261, 262, 293, 318,
319, 346
Leinen, Rudolf  49, 55
Levinson, Stephen C.  327, 346
López-Couso, María José  149,
151, 158, 171, 294
Los, Bettelou  41, 55, 139, 147,
203, 294
M
Macaulay, Ronald  152, 154,
168, 171
Maier, Georg  174, 176, 177, 182,
188, 194, 195, 204
Mair, Christian  86, 89, 102,
241, 262
Maiwald, Patrick  293
Manning, Elizabeth  2, 10, 261
Marchand, Hans  36, 37, 55
Markus, Manfred  58, 63, 78, 79
Martin, James Robert  159,
266–268, 321, 327, 346
Matsumoto, Meiko  19, 34
Matthiessen, Christian  318, 321,
323, 346
Mayerthaler, Willi  180, 204
McAlinden, Fiona  346
McCafferty, Kevin  106, 114, 127
McDougall, David  33
McDougall, Ian  33
McEnery, Tony  186, 203, 204
McGrath, Diane  346
McMillan, Julie R.  342, 346
McQuillan, Peter  112, 127
Mesthrie, Rajend  204
Meunier, Fanny  318, 319
Meyerhoff, Miriam  343, 344,
346
Miles, Jeremy  157, 191, 194, 203,
304
Miller, Jim  85, 102, 116, 174, 178,
181–183, 186, 204, 205
Milroy, James  119, 128
Milroy, Lesley  119, 128
Mitchell, Bruce  40, 55, 288, 293
Mittendorf, Ingo  62, 79
Mojžíšová, Katerina  296, 304,
309, 310, 317, 319
Mondorf, Britta  131, 133, 142,
144, 145, 148, 237
Montgomery, Michael B.  113,
128, 177, 204, 345
Mossé, Fernand  57, 59–61, 64,
73, 74, 77, 79
N
Nagle, Stephen J.  106, 128
Nanni, Deborah L.  241, 254, 262
Nehls, Dietrich  60, 76, 79, 221,
237
Nelson, Gerard  296, 316, 317, 319
Nesi, Hilary  298, 319
Nevalainen, Terttu  33, 54, 78,
132, 145, 148
Nickel, Gerhard  16, 34, 60, 61,
79, 148, 221, 237
Nissel, Magnus  293
Núñez Pertejo, Paloma  58, 61,
72, 79
Nurmi, Arja  18, 32, 34, 54
Nuyts, Jan  332, 346
O
Ó Cuív, Brian  105, 128
Ó Máille, Tómas  112, 128
Ó Siadhail, Michael  112, 128
O’Leary, Kathy  346
Oberlander, Jon  297, 300, 312,
318
Orchard, Andy  21, 34
Österreicher, Wulf  62, 78
P
Paddock, Harold  177, 204
Pagliuca, William  78
Palmer, Martha  10, 109, 110, 116,
125, 128
Pampel, Fred C.  190, 191, 204
Paquot, Magali  296, 304, 316,
318, 319
Peirsman, Yves  1, 10
Perkins, Revere  78, 110, 128
Peters, Hans  102, 132, 148, 154,
171, 205
Pietsch, Lukas  176, 204
Plag, Ingo  36, 55
Plinke, Wulff  203
Plungian, Vladimir  106, 126
Pollard, Carl  5, 10, 210, 221,
224, 237
Poppe, Erich  62, 79
Postal, Paul M.  4, 10, 239, 241,
262
Poussa, Patricia  18, 31, 34, 177,
204
Prince, Ellen F.  282, 299–301,
310, 312, 319
Pullum, Geoffrey  174, 180,
186, 197, 198, 200, 201, 203,
216–219, 221, 322, 325, 346
Q
Quinn, Heidi  173–176, 178, 181,
185, 186, 188, 192–197, 200, 205
Quirk, Randolph  16, 17, 174–176,
182–184, 195, 200, 205, 240,
241, 252, 262, 265, 268, 269,
277, 280, 293, 299, 319,
321–323, 325, 326, 346
R
Radford, Andrew  175, 205
Rayson, Paul  188, 204, 302, 319
Río-Rey, Carmen  267, 293
Rissanen, Matti  31, 33, 34, 54
Ritz, Marie-Eve  85, 102
Rizzi, Luigi  5, 10, 210, 211, 217,
219, 221
Rohdenburg, Günter  131, 133,
137, 138, 140, 142, 146, 148, 149,
215, 221, 228, 229, 234, 237,
243, 257, 262
Römer, Ute  11, 62, 79
Ronan, Patricia  18–20, 25, 31, 34
Rørvik, Sylvi  296, 319
Rosenbaum, Peter Stephen  241,
262
Ross, Charles Hunter  265, 269,
270, 293
Rudanko, Juhani  215, 217, 221,
227, 229–231, 233, 236, 237
S
Sag, Ivan  5, 10, 210, 221, 224, 237
Salvi, Giampaolo  59, 79
Sankoff, Gillian  343, 344, 346
Sato, Kiriko  269, 293
Scheffer, Johannes  58, 79
	 Corpus Interrogation and Grammatical Patterns
Schegloff, Emanuel A.  327, 347
Schlüter, Julia  63, 67, 79, 102, 137,
138, 142, 149
Schneider, Edgar W.  108, 127,
128, 204
Schopf, Alfred  58, 77, 79
Scott, Mike  84, 299, 319
Seesahai, Maureen  342, 346
Siemund, Peter  100, 102
Siewierska, Anna  174, 178,
181–184, 199, 200, 205
Sinclair, John  1, 10
Singler, John Victor  176, 202
Smith, K. Aaron  76, 79, 87, 102,
166, 205, 292, 346
Smith, Nicholas  76, 79, 87, 102,
166, 205, 292, 346
Smitterberg, Erik  62, 63, 65,
66, 79
Sobin, Nick  173, 185, 186, 193,
197, 205
Sørensen, Knud  269, 293
Stefanowitsch, Anatol  1, 2, 10
Stenson, Nancy  111, 128
Stenström, Anna-Brita  337,
340, 347
Storms, Gert  1, 10
Strang, Barbara M.H.  60, 79
Stubbs, Michael  1, 2, 10, 11,
158, 171
Stump, Gregory T.  268, 293
Svartvik, Jan  205, 262, 319, 333,
346, 347
Swan, Michael  183, 205, 267,
293
Sweet, Henri  78, 103, 165, 173,
174, 176, 186, 205, 243, 262
Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt  184,
190–193, 205
T
Tagliamonte, Sali  132, 133, 149,
152, 171
Tajima, Matsuji  62, 79
Tanabe, Harumi  19, 34
Tandberg, Anne  337, 347
Taylor, John  231, 237
Thomason, Sarah Grey  105, 107,
108, 128
Thompson, Sandra A.  216, 217,
221, 319
Tieken-Boon van Ostade,
Ingrid  78
Timofeeva, Olga  266, 268, 269,
293, 294
Tono, Yukio  186, 204
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs  16, 34,
41, 55, 106, 128, 158, 171
Trudgill, Peter  78, 84, 85, 102,
103, 177, 204, 205
Tummers, José  1, 11
U
Uí Bheirn, Una  111, 128
Ungerer, Friedrich  132, 149
Upton, Clive  63, 79, 204
V
van de Pol, Nikki  266, 268,
269, 294
van der Auwera, Johan  106, 126,
269, 271, 293
van der Gaaf, Willem  61, 79
van Hattum, Marije  106–107,
112–114, 116, 118, 124, 127
van Kemenade, Ans  55
Vanneck, Gerard  100, 103
Verstraete, Jean-Christophe  325,
332, 347
Veselinović, Elvira  111, 128
Visconti, Jacqueline  158, 171
Visser, Fredericus Theodo-
rus  58, 62, 80, 84, 103, 106,
128, 244, 262, 267, 294
Vosberg, Uwe  215, 228, 229,
237, 238
W
Wagner, Heinrich  112, 128, 177,
201, 205, 344, 347
Wagner, Susanne  112, 128, 177,
201, 205, 344, 347
Waibel, Birgit  102
Wales, Katie  26, 173, 178, 185,
186, 193–198, 205
Walker, Jim  79, 85, 103
Wallis, Sean  115, 128
Walshaw, David  128
Wanner, Anja  220, 221
Watt, Dominic  78, 126
Webster, Noah  106, 128
Weiber, Rolf  203
Weinert, Regina  174, 178,
181–183, 205
Whitelock, Dorothy  81, 103
Widlitzki, Bianca  293
Wierzbicka, Anna  5, 8, 11, 16, 18,
29, 34, 225–227, 238
Wilson, Andrew  156, 188, 204
Wischer, Ilse  61, 80
Wolff, Susanne  10
Wright, Joseph  3, 6, 34, 57, 59,
63–66, 75, 78–80, 171
X
Xiang, Xin  33
Xiao, Richard  186, 204
Y
Yamamoto, Mutsumi  252, 255,
262
Yáñez-Bouza, Nuria  115, 126,
128
Z
Ziegeler, Debra  58, 59, 61, 62,
80
Zieglschmid, Andreas Johannes
Friedrich  99, 103
Subject index
A
action noun  17, 20
actualization theory  145, 146
adjective  23, 131–148, 154, 155,
163, 230, 231, 236, 239–245,
247, 252, 254, 260–262, 267,
303
attributive  145
complemented  140, 142, 145
non-attributive  134–145
adverbial  3, 6, 35, 36, 40–42, 45,
46, 49, 51, 87, 92, 100, 131, 133,
144–146, 151, 154, 155, 169, 257,
265–268, 303, 307
afraid  165, 223–236
age  60, 153, 170, 188, 245, 321,
323, 340, 341, 344–347
a-hunting  6, 57, 61, 62, 66, 79
ambiguity 
ambiguous  5, 7, 40, 70, 188,
189, 239, 240, 243, 252–262,
328, 329, 332, 335–337, 341,
344, 349
analogy  54, 108, 176, 181
analysis
qualitative  8, 247
quantitative  6, 39, 59, 67, 247,
322, 333, 344
analyticisation  15, 31
augmentation  30, 265, 284,
285, 292
B
Bach’s Generalization  5,
209–211, 219, 220
be able to  105–107, 109–113,
116–126, 174, 252, 267
C
can  105–126
change  3, 15, 33, 36, 39–41,
45–49, 53, 54, 83, 94, 100, 101,
107–109, 119, 125, 209, 220,
227, 242, 246, 251, 261, 278,
282, 324, 325, 339, 340, 343–345
contact-induced  107–109
semantic  39–41, 171
cline  3, 7, 17, 144, 145, 155, 265,
266
Cognitive Grammar  204, 241
collocation  15–29, 69, 72, 135,
154–168
colloquial  3, 18, 57, 61, 62, 75, 77,
100, 103, 136, 201
comparative variation  131, 133,
144, 146, 147
complement  112, 143, 146,
173–178, 192, 210–212, 215, 220,
224–236, 241, 254, 259
predicative  133, 142, 144–146,
154, 155, 204, 245
-of ing  215, 223–236
sentential  5, 210, 220, 224, 234
subject predicative  173, 174,
192–196, 204
complementation  6, 8, 133, 207,
219, 221, 237
computer-mediated
communication  6, 35, 49,
50, 53
constraint  124, 125, 131–134 139,
140, 142, 145–148, 221, 237,
260, 318
syntactic  131, 133, 139, 145,
147, 318
construction  15–37, 40, 42, 45,
46, 57–62, 64–77, 81, 82, 84,
85, 87, 88, 93, 106, 107, 111–113,
117, 118, 120–122, 124, 146, 173,
174, 178, 179, 181, 185–190, 200,
203–220, 223–236, 239–262,
265–272, 288, 292, 295–319, 331
a-verbing  57, 59, 60, 64–67,
70–74, 76
absolute  249, 265–294, 334,
335
control  211–233, 240, 241, 245,
250, 252, 260
focus  179
gerund  57–66, 75–77
light verb  15–32
raising  239
tough  239–243, 245, 260–262
Construction Grammar  17, 241,
242, 261, 262
contrast  133–140, 142–146, 177,
178, 183, 184, 216, 300, 304,
312–316, 327
control  209–237, 239–241, 244,
245, 247–250, 252, 253, 260
conversation analysis  321
corpus  1–9
Bergen Corpus of London
Teenage Language  321–
327, 330–345, 349
British Academic Written
English Corpus  298–317
British National Corpus  85,
94, 134–138, 147, 151–153,
170, 175, 182, 183, 187,
192–195, 197–199, 202, 204,
239, 246–249, 251, 255–257,
261, 265, 267, 268, 271,
273–276, 282, 292, 297–299,
301–305, 307–309, 311, 313,
315–317
Brown Corpus  19, 101
Brown quartet of
corpora  86–88, 98
Corpus of Contemporary
American English  93–96,
99, 101,151–155,160–164,170,
175, 182, 183, 187, 190–192,
195, 196, 198, 199, 202
Corpus of Historical
American English  96–99,
101, 209, 211, 212, 220
Corpus of Late Modern
English Texts  90, 92, 93,
98, 99, 101, 239, 246, 261
FLOB Corpus  101
Frown Corpus  101
Helsinki Corpus of English
Texts: Diachronic and
Dialectal  292
	 Corpus Interrogation and Grammatical Patterns
International Corpus of
English  114, 115, 126, 127,
151–156, 163–170, 305, 317,
318
International Corpus of
Learner English  296–298,
302–309, 311, 313–319
Leuven Drama Corpus  273,
274
LOB Corpus  101
London-Lund Corpus  322–
345, 349
Louvain Corpus of Native
English Essays  298–318
Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus
of Early Modern Eng-
lish  272, 292
Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus
of Modern British Eng-
lish  292
Scottish Corpus of Texts &
Speech  170
TIME Corpus  223–236
Varieties of English for Spe-
cific Purposes dAtabase
learner corpus  297–319
Wycliffe Corpus  42
D
dead  3, 7, 49, 151–171, 327
decline  7, 33, 36, 39–41, 43,
45–51, 53–55, 81, 84, 93, 96,
98–100, 214, 280, 288, see also
decrease
decrease  15, 30–32, 45, 71, 83,
88–89, 94, 97, 106, 119, 125,
168, 191, 197, 270, 280, 288,
345, see also decline
detransitivization  217, 220
development  15, 16–18, 20,
33–35, 40–49, 54, 58, 59, 62,
75–77, 81, 85–87, 90, 92–94,
98, 99, 101, 106, 107, 110, 112,
124, 136, 151, 170, 171, 237,
246, 250, 269, 294, 301, 305,
307
diachronic  3, 6, 8, 9, 16, 18,
34–39, 41–45, 49, 80, 87, 91,
96, 102, 124, 145, 171, 209, 246,
250, 265–270, 279, 292
dialect  3, 6, 57, 59, 60, 62, 63, 66,
67, 70, 72, 75, 77–80, 108, 111,
112, 114, 119, 126, 128, 148, 205
diffusion  3, 9, 265, 266, 289
discourse function  9, 295, 299,
302, 309–317
distribution  3–8, 30, 32, 44, 57,
62, 63, 73–75, 86–101, 106, 112,
113, 117–125, 132, 151, 160, 170–
177, 181–188, 192–199, 201, 202,
213, 259, 265–272, 277–279,
283–292, 303, 304, 312–315, 321,
333–339, 341, 345, 348
E
English
American  81, 86, 93–98,
138, 139, 151–154, 163, 169,
170, 173, 175, 187, 188, 192,
195–199, 202, 209, 211, 213,
225, 227
British  81, 82, 101, 115, 128, 137,
138, 153, 160, 163, 169, 188,
204, 246, 262, 272, 292, 321,
333, 336, 339
Contemporary  18–26, 81–86,
98, 99, 151, 154–156, 243
Early Modern  15–21, 27–34,
42, 45, 58, 78–83, 148, 153,
154, 171, 265, 272, 292, 293
Irish  100, 105, 113–126, 152,
164, 166, 169, 170
Late Modern  57–79, 81–101,
127, 135, 149, 238, 239, 246,
261, 262
Middle  6, 15–21, 24–34, 37–55,
57–62, 79, 83, 111, 133, 148,
175, 179, 267, 269, 294
Modern  15–21, 27–30, 32–34,
42, 45, 52, 55, 57–79, 81–84,
90–93, 99, 101, 127, 131–135,
142–149, 153, 154, 171,
237–239, 246, 261, 262,
265–272, 292, 293
Old  15, 16, 18–24, 27, 30–35,
37, 40, 41, 45, 46, 49, 50,
53–55, 60, 81–83, 179, 233,
243, 268, 269, 288, 293, 294
Scottish  151, 152, 169, 170
spoken  62, 64, 102, 136, 204,
205, 265, 270–278, 280, 292,
293, 322, 333, 347
written  265, 284, 291,
English Dialect Dictionary  3, 6,
57, 59, 63, 78–80
environment  6, 52, 83, 108, 116,
144, 309, 311
syntactic  131, 295
F
finite  8, 9, 88, 112, 175, 176, 180,
189, 199, 204, 227, 236, 237,
241, 265, 266, 268, 293, 297, see
also non-finite
focus  21, 173–202, 245, 299,
301–314
frequency  2–9, 15, 21–33, 35, 42,
43, 50, 57–77, 82, 83, 86–99,
112, 117–119, 121, 124, 125, 135,
168, 169, 209, 213–220, 225,
229, 247–251, 269–272, 279–
285, 288, 290–292, 295, 296,
301–306, 311, 315–317, 321–324,
327–340, 343–345, 349
absolute  88
normalized  213, 229, 334,
337, 343
relative  302, 321–324,
327–329, 333, 336–339, 349
functional blending  76
Functional Grammar  174, 178,
181, 203–205, 318, 346
G
gender  126, 321, 323, 340–342,
344, 345
genre  20, 22–24, 27, 28, 30, 33,
61, 62, 75, 115, 152, 153, 170,
188, 247, 248, 272, 278, 292,
296, 298, 308, 318, 345, see also
register and text type
depictive  269–281
fiction  83, 86–90, 94–98, 102,
136, 138, 147, 188, 247, 248,
261, 270, 273–278, 280–284,
345
formal  186, 269–271, 277–281,
283, 284, 290, 316
letters  19, 34, 83, 105, 106,
113–116, 124–128, 153, 188,
189, 275, 277
literary  20, 22, 43, 53, 54, 61,
152, 246, 265–270, 277–284,
290
narrative  20, 22–25, 83, 87,
97, 135, 140, 141, 147, 265,
269–278, 280–284, 290, 308
newspaper  87, 94, 96, 139, 152,
275, 277
non-fiction  96, 248, 274–278,
280, 282
non-literary  22, 265, 266,
277–284, 290
	 Subject index	 
non-narrative  265, 277–284,
290
popular magazines  96, 153,
188
gerund  6, 57–67, 71, 75–77, 79,
211, 224, 226, 228
Great Complement Shift  215
H
historical  3, 5, 6, 9, 15, 16, 20,
22, 23, 27, 30, 35, 42, 52, 53,
58–63, 72, 73, 75, 82, 96–98,
106, 110, 111, 114, 119, 126–128,
134, 136–138, 140, 141, 149,
171, 179, 209, 211, 233,
262–277
historical English syntax  34
human  216, 217, 234, 239, 251,
252, 255–260, 271, 291, 301,
315, 346
I
idiom  190, 293
idiomatic  17, 19, 33, 34, 78
increase  25–27, 30, 33, 43, 45, 46,
54, 72, 83, 87–91, 93, 94, 97, 99,
106, 116, 118, 125, 135, 214–216,
218, 220, 261, 270, 288, 291,
292, 345, see also rise
infinitive  5, 8, 68–70, 91, 92,
224–236, 239–247, 252–260,
288, 289
active  239, 243
passive  239, 242, 243
to infinitive  224–230, 232,
234–236, 239–247, 252, 253,
259, 260
information structure  295–296,
302, 310–317
innit  321, 327, 336, 337, 347, 349
intensifier  146–148, 151–171,
178, 190
dual form  131–135, 142–145
-ly  7, 132, 135–145
Irish  110, 113
it BE sentence  173–178, 181–189,
194–197, 200
it-cleft  173–176, 181, 182–189,
194–200, 295–317
K
knowledge  23, 118, 132, 182, 254,
298, 300, 327–329, 348
L
L1  295–317
L2  105, 295–317
language contact  15, 18, 31–33,
51, 80, 107, 127, 128, 204
learners  107, 108, 203, 295–318
Norwegian  295–319
learning  81, 105–107, 125
imperfect  105–107, 125
lexicalization  10, 41, 55
longitudinal  81, 170
M
marked  17, 75, 83, 87–89, 93,
94, 99, 108, 132, 145, 146, 179,
180–185, 194, 269, 274, 280–
289, 299, 300, 307, 322, 333
markedness reversal  5, 173, 180,
200–202
modal verb  109, 127
ability  105–107, 109–113,
116–126, 174, 252, 267
participant-internal
possibility  106, 107,
109–113, 116–118, 122–124
morphological  19, 31, 36, 41,
109, 177, 179, 203
morphosyntactic shift  47, 49,
51, 53
N
non-finite  8, 88, 189, 204, 227,
236, 241, 265, 266, 293, see
also finite
NP Movement  210
O
object  5, 8, 10, 15–17, 20, 23, 59,
65, 66, 81, 144, 146, 173–177,
179, 180, 185, 186, 190–202,
209–221, 231, 232, 234, 237,
239–241, 243, 254–260, 300,
306, 307, 315
direct  16–21, 24–29, 31, 32,
34, 44, 93
null  209, 221
object control  5, 8, 209–220
P
participle  9, 57, 60,61, 67, 73,
76, 81, 86, 91–93, 96, 100, 132,
133, 138, 146, 267, 271, 287, 288,
292, 293
-ande  7, 57, 60, 73, 76
-ende  60, 73, 76
-inde  60, 73, 75, 76
-ing(e)  7, 60, 73, 76
past  81, 86, 93, 96, 100, 267,
287, 288
present  60
particle  35–37, 39–52, 55, 126
passive  8, 61, 82, 84, 87, 119, 213,
221, 232, 234, 235, 239–261
perfect  2, 4, 7, 29, 81–103, 152,
191, 308
phonetic  70, 125, 322
phrasal verb  33, 40, 55
please  216, 239–241, 254, 255
polarity  105, 109, 116–125, 313,
321–332, 338, 339, 346, 348
negative  109, 117–121, 313,
325–332, 339
positive  109, 117, 120, 125,
325–329, 338
predicate  8, 15–25, 29, , 34, 183,
218, 219, 224, 230–236, 239,
242, 262, 266, 267, 272, 273,
287–292, 300, 306
prefix  38
lexical  38
predicative  6, 35–42, 45–55
preterite  2, 4, 7, 81–83, 85–103
Principle
Complexity  131, 140, 142, 144,
146, 243, 257
Extraction  229, 230
Rhythmic Alternation  63,
142, 149
PRO  5, 9, 10, 210, 211, 218, 221,
224, 230, 266, 299
productive  35–37, 51, 52, 82, 151,
163, 170, 259, 280
progressive  3, 6, 7, 57–80, 82, 84,
89, 90, 237
pronominal  8, 176, 177, 179, 185,
192, 257
pronoun  5, 8, 173–183, 185–192,
194–202, 204, 205, 218, 275,
297, 299, 304, 306, 307
object  173, 175, 176, 177, 180,
185, 190, 192, 200, 201
subject  175, 177, 180, 186, 187,
191, 192, 194–201, 299
prosodic  131, 142, 143, 178–181,
299, 322–325, 333, 337
pure  55, 154, 167, 168, 171, 192,
344
	 Corpus Interrogation and Grammatical Patterns
Q
question  183, 256, 304, 316,
321–346
R
ready  166, 235, 239–261
reanalysis  54, 173, 176, 177, 180,
201
refunctionalization  173
regional  2, 3, 78, 114, 115, 119,
125, 126, 151, 166, 292
register  85, 186–188, 247, 248,
265–295, 296, 298, 308,
315–318, 345, see also genre
and text type
representative  2, 60, 75, 99, 126,
136, 270–273
response  322–324, 326–332,
335–337, 339, 344, 345, 348
retrieval methodology  57
rise  17, 25, 30, 32, 40, 77, 93, 96,
119, 125, 126, 132, 214, 215, 249,
261, see also increase
S
semantic difference  8, 225, 240
semantic role  223, 224, 233, 234
shift  6, 35, 36, 40, 44–47, 49, 51,
53, 54, 88, 99–101, 107, 113, 124,
125, 170, 215, 271
similarity  1, 7, 10, 57, 62, 74, 76,
105, 108, 124, 145, 185, 194, 196,
198, 226, 288
perceived  105, 124
social  2, 3, 32, 34, 76, 78, 83, 114,
115, 125–127, 148, 153, 204, 219,
251, 274, 301, 304, 318, 321, 323,
340–346, 347
speech function  321–339,
341–346, 348, 349
spread  27, 31, 52, 82, 84, 107, 145,
201, 215, 220, 237, 244, 292
style  18, 25, 127, 221, 237, 269,
272, 273, 280, 282, 292, 301,
308, 318, 323, 341, 345
subject  5, 8, 9, 106, 126, 128, 173–
202, 204, 210, 211, 213, 223, 224,
225, 230–237, 239, 241, 244–246,
249–261, 266, 273, 299, 306,
307, 310, 312, 313, 319, 337
non-canonical  239, 260, 261
subject predicative  8, 173, 174,
192–196, 204
synchronic  8, 9, 16, 18, 55, 265,
268, 319, 347
syntactic structure  51, 182
T
tag question  321–342
text type  115, 220, 225, 270,
273–276, 288, see also genre
and register
thematic emphasis  312–315
tone 
fall  322, 324–327, 329–332,
338–342, 348, 350
rise  322, 324–326, 329–331,
338–342, 348, 350
Topic  52, 58, 178, 181, 184, 200,
201, 240, 254, 274, 277, 295,
301, 311–315
topic launching  312, 314, 315
topic linking  312, 315
U
unmarked  146, 181, 184, 260,
300, 344
usage  3, 10, 11, 16, 29, 38, 62, 75,
76, 85, 86, 100, 113, 126–128,
177, 180, 205, 228, 240–243,
248, 250, 261, 295, 318, 322,
328, 333, 342
V
variable  5, 72, 117, 119, 184–186,
190–197
variant  4, 5, 57, 67, 68, 70, 72, 112,
116, 117, 120, 131, 138, 178, 224,
227, 240, 244, 248, 249, 253,
255, 257, 260, 261, 266, 269,
271, 284, 292, 344
variation  2, 3, 7, 8, 36, 37, 43,
50, 54, 57, 59, 66, 67, 70, 78,
79, 81, 83, 90, 94–99, 102,
116, 125, 128, 131, 133, 137,
142, 144–149, 171, 175, 176,
187, 188, 191, 195, 197, 199,
202–204, 223, 227, 230, 237,
239, 240, 242, 259, 277, 307,
309, 318, 337, 345
varieties  3, 16, 18, 20, 52, 63, 78,
79, 86, 98, 102, 108, 110, 116,
117, 119, 124, 125, 127, 151, 152,
154, 156, 168–170, 173–178, 187,
201–205, 267, 271, 274, 285,
288, 297
verb-particle combination  45
W
warn  5, 8, 209, 211–220
with  246, 265–273, 277–280,
284–287, 292
writing  3, 4, 9, 27, 30, 72, 76,
99–101, 110, 113, 114, 118, 125,
186, 203, 243, 251, 269, 270,
274, 276, 278, 280, 291, 293,
295–319
academic  295, 296, 298, 305,
316–318
argumentative  295
discipline-specific  3, 4, 295,
296, 312–317
