factors vary over time, they are also difﬁcult to measure in a way that is valid and
reliable for both monolingual and bilingual populations. These difﬁculties not-
withstanding, in this area there exist established, widely used and standardized tasks
which, at least in theory, allow them to be measured. The same cannot be said for
another set of factors which impact strongly on the language development and
proﬁciency of bilinguals, namely those predictors that are connected to patterns of
language use and emotions.
The literature on the role of attitudes towards L1 and L2, as well as the frequency
of language use in various domains, for the development of proﬁciency is vast (for
an overview see Schmid 2011: Chaps. 7 and 8). One of the largest problems for
linguistic research is that, unlike the factors mentioned above, these predictors
cannot be independently measured. Researchers have to rely on self-assessments
and self-reports, which are notoriously unreliable and often affected by how par-
ticipants wish to be perceived, not by how they actually feel and behave. For
example, a speaker who feels (for whatever reason) that her L2 proﬁciency should
be better than it actually is might downplay the frequency of use of that language,
and a participant who wants to be polite might not be entirely honest in reporting
her attitudes towards the language and speech community with which the researcher
is afﬁliated.
Furthermore, such reports can only provide a snapshot of attitudes and habits at a
speciﬁc point in time and the reliability of reports of past experiences may decrease
even further. Attitudes and the relative dominance of use of the various languages
are extremely fluid and changeable over time. Instructed learners, for example,
often develop their attitudes based on how much they like or dislike their teachers,
so that a change in the instructor may lead to a reversal of the emotional stance.
Migrants may arrive in their new country ﬁlled with enthusiasm, but become dis-
enchanted through negative experiences. Use is possibly even more variable; lan-
guage habits will change as people enter a speaker’s social network, or disappear
from the circle of friends, causing continual fluctuations in the actual amount of use
of various languages. Technological and infrastructural changes over the past
decades (internet, e-books, cheap telecommunication and Skype, cheap travel)
further imply that the communicative possibilities open to most migrants are
completely different today from what they were even two decades ago.
Lastly, one-dimensional measures of use of L1 and L2, which ask participants to
estimate the proportion of use of both languages on a typical day, cannot capture the
complex interplay of language use across a variety of domains—for example
interactive versus receptive (reading, watching TV), written versus auditory, formal
versus informal, and so on. Whether, for example, a participant routinely uses one
of her languages in the workplace or at home with her partner may impact in very
different ways on her acquisition of the L2 and the attrition of her L1 (see Schmid
2007, 2011).
All of these considerations imply that any attempt to comprehensively elicit a
picture of both the current status of the participants’ attitudes and language use and
the development of these characteristics over time would necessitate a formidably
complex instrument that would be extremely time-consuming to administer (and
22 2 Multi-factorial Studies: Populations and Linguistic Features
might still not be entirely reliable). Again, a compromise is necessary, balancing
available time versus the most desirable information. These considerations have
lead to a questionnaire with some 100 questions, which is available in the online
supplementary material. This questionnaire takes 45–60 min to administer and will
allow you to obtain a comprehensive picture of attitude and use over time, contexts
and modalities.
2.4 Language Proﬁciency
That language proﬁciency impacts strongly on performance on linguistic tasks and
on language processing appears to be a trivial truth. However, it is an important
consideration for assessments of L2 acquisition. There are two issues for which
proﬁciency is particularly important. The ﬁrst one concerns the comparison of
groups with different L1s or L2s aiming to establish whether the developmental
trajectory is similar for a speciﬁc aspect of language for various populations or
whether path and outcome are affected by the L1 or L2 involved. In these cases,
some more general measure of proﬁciency is essential in order to determine at
what stage of language acquisition individuals are and to make sure that group
differences are not confounded by proﬁciency. As well as providing valuable
information for the single study, this general measure can act as a cross-study
titration for meta-study analyses.
Second, there is the question of whether there are limits to the attainability of
ultimate nativeness after a certain age, in particular where speciﬁc grammatical
structures are assumed to be problematic. There are two important considerations
here: First, L2 proﬁciency and age at acquisition are almost invariably negatively
correlated in populations of learners. However, a substantial proportion of the
decline in eventual proﬁciency among older learners is clearly due to changes in
learning contexts, cognitive abilities and motivation, which co-occur with age and
are associated with success in language learning (Bialystok 2001). Given these
explanations for decline, identifying a limit to L2 development which is caused by
independent maturational processes becomes difﬁcult. It is therefore necessary to
make sure that the L2 learners investigated are not only at the top of their cohort,
but also at a level of general proﬁciency that is comparable to that of the reference
population(s), i.e. that the population are near-natives.
Second, recent research has established that language processing and perfor-
mance on certain tasks may also vary considerably within monolingual populations,
and that one important contributing factor here is also language proﬁciency (2015).
The general assumption of homogeneity within monolingual populations may be
due to the fact that participants in linguistic experiments are so often university
students—that is, groups of age-matched, highly educated and relatively young
individuals who can be assumed to be comparatively highly proﬁcient speakers of
their L1. If such individuals are compared with monolinguals at lower levels of
proﬁciency, very interesting differences emerge. For example, an ERP experiment
2.3 Personal Variables 23
by Pakulak and Neville (2010) ﬁnds that high- and low-proﬁciency monolingual
speakers of English differ substantially in their brain responses to sentences which
violate English phrase structure rules. The differences between high- and
low-proﬁciency native speakers found in this study are strikingly similar to those
found between natives and second-language learners in many studies. Such ﬁndings
indicate that the differences found between L2 populations of different ages of
acquisition, such as the behavioral results reported by Johnson and Newport (1989)
or the neurolinguistic ﬁndings presented by Weber-Fox and Neville (1996), may
not solely be due to AoA but to the proﬁciency levels in the various age groups
(which decrease with AoA in the Weber-Fox and Neville study, as was pointed out
by Gillon Dowens et al. 2010; van Hell and Tokowicz 2010). Similarly, Dąbrowska
(2012) suggests that individual differences between speakers, such as the level of
education (and, by extension, the familiarity with formal, written registers) can lead
to different underlying grammars even within monolingual populations.
For studies attempting to investigate whether there are any qualitative differences
between (late) L2 learners and natives with respect to certain grammatical rules or
structures, it is therefore of vital importance that the proﬁciency level of these
populations be clearly described. Tremblay (2011) has treated this issue in detail
and demonstrated that the common procedure of estimating proﬁciency based on
hours of instruction is not reliable. Furthermore, this measure is obviously not
useful in determining levels of knowledge of uninstructed learners, attriters or
monolinguals.
We recommend a three-tiered approach, for practical reasons. First, recruitment
should encourage participants to self-select on perceived level of proﬁciency, that
is, the recruitment text should mention that the study will test advanced or very
advanced speakers. Second, we highly recommend an online screening test before
participants are invited to the experiment. For many languages, standardized
instruments are available, for example the Goethe-Test for German (www.goethe.
de/lrn/prj/pba/deindex.htm) or the DIALANG Placement Test for Danish, Dutch,
English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Icelandic, Irish-Gaelic, Italian,
Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish (http://www.lancaster.ac.uk/
researchenterprise/dialang/about.html). Using such a test will help ensure that the
participants who are eventually selected are proﬁcient enough to take part in the
study.
In order to ensure homogenous proﬁciency levels across populations, the actual
test battery should furthermore contain at least one further measure of overall
proﬁciency. Again, previous studies vary in which task they prefer to this end.
Some have used ofﬁcial standardized tests for L2 learners, such as the Test of
Adolescent and Adult Language (TOAL-3; Hammill et al. 1994, used by Pakulak
and Neville 2010) or the Oxford Quick Placement Test (2002), which is frequently
used to assess L2 English proﬁciency. Such tests are, however, not available for all
languages. We therefore recommend the widely-used C-Test, which is easy to
construct and administer (as long as the language in question has a written register)
and has been shown to be a reliable indicator of proﬁciency at advanced levels
(Schmid 2011:183). The C-Test is constructed on the basis of real examples of short
24 2 Multi-factorial Studies: Populations and Linguistic Features
texts, which may come from different genres (newspaper articles and columns,
encyclopedia entries etc.). The ﬁrst sentence of each text is left intact. Starting with
the second sentence, the second half of every second word is removed and replaced
by a gap (compounds, proper names and words that have been gapped before are
skipped and in words with uneven numbers of letters, one more letter is removed
than remains standing). Participants receive one point for each word which they are
able to complete correctly; an exercise which requires them to make full use of the
built-in redundancy of every text and integrate their linguistic knowledge from a
number of levels.
Schmid (2014) used a C-Test comprising ﬁve short texts of ca. 20 gaps each,
which she administered to very advanced L2 learners of German with English as
their L1 and long-term L1 German migrants in Canada. A high level of reliability
was found across these texts (α > 0.8), and for the present study we therefore opted
for a shortened version, using only two texts. The texts we used to assess proﬁ-
ciency in Dutch, English and German can be found in the online supplementary
material.
To sum up we recommend that one or more measures of general proﬁciency be
elicited by all investigations of bilingualism for purposes of cross-linguistic com-
parison. In addition we suggest that if there is a standardized test for the target
language, this be preferred. Lastly, we recommend that the range of proﬁciency in
the native group be established as well, since this can clearly also vary between
studies and may explain inter-study variability as much as other factors.
2.5 Conclusion
The considerations offered in this chapter with respect to external and personal
factors that may influence performance on linguistic tasks underscore the complex
and multifactorial nature of linguistic research. Many predictors need to be taken
into account, and most of them are not easily classiﬁable into a few neat categories
(e.g. age before vs. after puberty). It should be kept in mind that some of these
factors may interact with each other in complex ways. This suggests that more
in-depth insight can only be gained on the basis of cumulative evidence from a
range of studies.
In order to facilitate meta-investigations of such studies, it is necessary that all
predictors be stringently controlled and documented. In addition, such a multi-level
approach critically relies on comparable experimental procedure, and this is a
substantial challenge, in particular where data collection at different sites, in dif-
ferent countries and in different laboratories is concerned. This is the challenge
which the following chapter will address.
2.4 Language Proﬁciency 25
References
Abutalebi, J., M. Canini, P.A. Della Rosa, L.P. Sheung, D.W. Green, and B.S. Weekes. 2014.
Bilingualism protects anterior temporal lobe integrity in aging. Neurobiology of Aging 35(9):
2126–2133.
Baddeley, A. 2003. Working memory and language: An overview. Journal of Communication
Disorders 36(3): 189–208.
Baker, Colin. 1988. Key issues in bilingualism and bilingual education. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Bialystok, E. 2001. Bilingualism in development: Language, literacy, and cognition. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge.
Bialystok, E., and K. Hakuta. 1994. In other words. The science and psychology of
second-language acquisition. New York: Basic Books.
Bialystok, E., F. Craik, and G. Luk. 2008. Cognitive control and lexical access in younger and
older bilinguals. Journal of Experimental Psychology. Learning, Memory, and Cognition 34
(4): 859.
Birdsong, D., and M. Molis. 2001. On the evidence for maturational constraints in
second-language acquisition. Journal of Memory and Language 44(2): 235–249.
Blackwell, A., and E. Bates. 1995. Inducing agrammatic proﬁles in normals: Evidence for the
selective vulnerability of morphology under cognitive resource limitation. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience 7(2): 228–257.
Caplan, D., and G.S. Waters. 1999. Verbal working memory and sentence comprehension.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 22(1): 77–94.
Conway, A.R., M.J. Kane, and R.W. Engle. 2003. Working memory capacity and its relation to
general intelligence. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 7(12): 547–552.
Conway, A.R., M.J. Kane, M.F. Bunting, D.Z. Hambrick, O. Wilhelm, and R.W. Engle. 2005.
Working memory span tasks: A methodological review and user’s guide. Psychonomic Bulletin
& Review 12(5): 769–786.
Dąbrowska, E. 2012. Different speakers, different grammars: Individual differences in native
language attainment. Linguistic Approaches to Bilingualism 2(3): 219–253.
Daneman, M., and P.A. Carpenter. 1980. Individual differences in working memory and reading.
Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 19(4): 450–466.
DeKeyser, R.M. 2000. The robustness of critical period effects in second language acquisition.
Studies in second language acquisition 22(4): 499–533.
DeKeyser, R., I. Alﬁ-Shabtay, and D. Ravid. 2010. Cross-linguistic evidence for the nature of age
effects in second language acquisition. Applied Psycholinguistics 31(3): 413–438.
Dowens, M.G., M. Vergara, H.A. Barber, and M. Carreiras. 2010. Morphosyntactic processing in
late second-language learners. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 22(8): 1870–1887.
Dussias, P.E. 2004. Parsing a ﬁrst language like a second: The erosion of L1 parsing strategies in
Spanish-English Bilinguals. International Journal of Bilingualism 8(3): 355–371.
Elman, J.L., E.A. Bates, M.H. Johnson, A. Karmiloff-Smith, D. Parisi, and K. Plunkett. 1996.
Rethinking innateness. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Friederici, A.D., K. Steinhauer, A. Mecklinger, and M. Meyer. 1998. Working memory constraints
on syntactic ambiguity resolution as revealed by electrical brain responses. Biological
Psychology 47(3): 193–221.
Gass, S., and I. Lee. 2011. Working memory capacity, inhibitory control, and proﬁciency in a
second language. In Modeling Bilingualism: From Structure to Chaos, ed. M.S. Schmid, and
W.M. Lowie, 43–59. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Gold, B.T., N.F. Johnson, and D.K. Powell. 2013. Lifelong bilingualism contributes to cognitive
reserve against white matter integrity declines in aging. Neuropsychologia 51(13): 2841–2846.
Hall, K. 2008. 15 Exceptional speakers: contested and problematized gender identities. The
handbook of language and gender 25: 353.
26 2 Multi-factorial Studies: Populations and Linguistic Features
Hammill, D.D., V.L. Brown, S.C. Larsen, and J.L. Wiederholt. 1994. Test of adolescent and adult
language: Assessing linguistic aspects of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Austin, TX:
Pro-Ed.
Johnson, J.S., and E.L. Newport. 1989. Critical period effects in second language learning: The
influence of maturational state on the acquisition of English as a second language. Cognitive
Psychology 21(1): 60–99.
Kirchner, W.K. 1958. Age differences in short-term retention of rapidly changing information.
Journal of Experimental Psychology 55(4): 352.
Knecht, S., B. Dräger, M. Deppe, L. Bobe, H. Lohmann, A. Flöel, and H. Henningsen. 2000.
Handedness and hemispheric language dominance in healthy humans. Brain 123(12): 2512–
2518.
Mackey, A., J. Philip, T. Egi, A. Fujii, and T. Tatsumi. 2002. Individual differences in working
memory, noticing interactional feedback and l2 development. In Individual differences and
instructed language learning, ed. P. Robinson, 181–209. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
McDonald, J.L. 2006. Beyond the critical period: Processing-based explanations for poor
grammaticality judgment performance by late second language learners. Journal of Memory
and Language 55(3): 381–401.
McKeever, W.F., K.S. Seitz, A.J. Krutsch, and P.L. Van Eys. 1995. On language laterality in
normal dextrals and sinistrals: results from the bilateral object naming latency task.
Neuropsychologia 33(12): 1627–1635.
Miyake, A., and N.P. Friedman. 1998. Individual differences in second language proﬁciency:
Working memory as language aptitude. In Foreign Language Learning: Psycholinguistic
studies on training and retention, ed. A.F. Healy, and L.E. Bourne, 339–364. Mahwah:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Miyake, A., P.A. Carpenter, and M.A. Just. 1995. Reduced resources and speciﬁc impairments in
normal and aphasic sentence comprehension. Cognitive Neuropsychology 12(6): 651–679.
Oldﬁeld, R.C. 1971. The assessment and analysis of handedness—The Edinburgh Inventory.
Neuropsychologia 9(1): 97–113.
Oxford Quick Placement Test. 2002. Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Pakulak, E., and H.J. Neville. 2010. Proﬁciency differences in syntactic processing of monolingual
native speakers indexed by event-related potentials. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 22(12):
2728–2744.
Pavlenko, A. (ed.). 2011. Thinking and speaking in two languages. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Pavlenko, A., A. Blackledge, I. Piller, and M. Teutsch-Dwyer (eds.). 2001. Multilingualism,
second language learning, and gender. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Sagarra, N., and J. Herschensohn. 2010. The role of proﬁciency and working memory in gender
and number agreement processing in L1 and L2 Spanish. Lingua 120(8): 2022–2039.
Schmid, M.S. 2007. The role of L1 use for L1 attrition. In Language attrition. Theoretical
perspectives, eds. Köpke B., M.S. Schmid, M. Keijzer and S. Dostert, 135–153.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M.S. 2011. Language attrition. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
Schmid, Monika S. 2014. The debate on maturational constraints in bilingual development: A
perspective from ﬁrst language attrition. Language acquisition 21(4): 386–410.
Stroop, J.R. 1935. Studies of interference in serial verbal reactions. Journal of Experimental
Psychology 18(6): 643.
Tremblay, A. 2011. Proﬁciency assessment standards in second language acquisition research.
Studies in Second Language Acquisition 33(3): 339–372.
Ullman, M.T. 2004. Contributions of memory circuits to language: The declarative/procedural
model. Cognition 92(1): 231–270.
Van den Noort, M.W., P. Bosch, and K. Hugdahl. 2006. Foreign language proﬁciency and
working memory capacity. European Psychologist 11(4): 289–296.
References 27
Van Hell, J.G., and N. Tokowicz. 2010. Event-related brain potentials and second language
learning: Syntactic processing in late L2 learners at different L2 proﬁciency levels. Second
Language Research 26(1): 43–74.
Vos, S.H., T.C. Gunter, H.H. Kolk, and G. Mulder. 2001. Working memory constraints on
syntactic processing: An electrophysiological investigation. Psychophysiology 38(1): 41–63.
Weber-Fox, C., and H. Neville. 1996. Maturational constraints on functional specializations for
language processing: ERP and behavioral evidence in bilingual speakers. Cognitive
Neuroscience 8(3): 231–256.
28 2 Multi-factorial Studies: Populations and Linguistic Features
Chapter 3
The Multi-lab, Multi-language,
Multi-method Challenge
Bregtje J. Seton and Laurie A. Stowe
Abstract In this chapter, the focus will be on the general challenges that are
involved in setting up, planning and running an experimental investigation of
bilingual development which involves collecting data at more than one site. Some
of the issues we flag up may seem logical, straightforward and obvious. However,
there are obstacles that are easy to overlook when planning a multi-site study. Many
of these involve tasks and decisions that take up more time than initially seems
possible. In order to help you avoid unexpected problems, this chapter will sum up
different issues that should be kept in mind from the start and offer a timeline for
these issues which is intended to help you plan your own study and avoid
unnecessary delays.
Keywords Multi-lab studies  Bilingualism  Second language acquisition  First
language attrition
3.1 Introduction
First of all, it should be emphasized that in an ideal world, collecting data at
multiple sites should be avoided since such an approach complicates matters
considerably. However, as was pointed out in Chap. 2, the multifactorial nature of
bilingual development makes it inevitable in some cases to recruit participants at
different locations, in different countries and even on different continents. For
example, in the language acquisition and attrition study which underlies the con-
siderations set out in the present volume, the participants were tested in two dif-
ferent languages (German and Dutch) and included native speakers, immersed L2
speakers (in Germany and the Netherlands) and L1 attriters (in North America).
Such a setup makes testing at a single site impossible, but allows the researcher to
gain insights that would not be acquired if data from only a single linguistic context
were used.
© The Author(s) 2016
M.S. Schmid et al., Designing Research on Bilingual Development,
SpringerBriefs in Linguistics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-11529-0_3
29
3.2 How to Choose Partner Centers:
Not All Labs Are Equal
If the decision to test in multiple centers is unavoidable, the three criteria for
choosing partner centers are (a) availability of equipment needed for the study, if
this cannot be transported, (b) availability of the target population, and (c) last but
certainly not least, access to the lab. In our case, in order to test on-line processing,
we chose to use both event-related potential (ERP) recording equipment and
eye-trackers, neither of which are readily portable (in particular where air travel is
involved). This also meant we usually had to make agreements with more than one
investigator or lab at different testing sites. We furthermore opted to conduct our
study chiefly in large urban centers with sufﬁciently large immigrant populations to
allow us to recruit the necessary numbers of attriters and L2 speakers successfully
within a reasonable period of time (which ruled out some otherwise potentially
ideally suited collaborators situated in remoter areas, such as Pennsylvania State
University).
Access is the criterion that leads to the most difﬁculties and requires the most
extensive forward planning. It is important to come to an arrangement with partner
centers as early as possible in the process in order to guarantee feasibility. In most
cases, existing links with colleague investigators will help facilitate access.
However, even labs where no such pre-existing links exist are often willing to
collaborate, especially if their labs are not fully booked and you have the necessary
resources and budget to pay for the use of their equipment. Since the cost of access
to the lab(s) will often form a sizeable proportion of the project budget it is
important to negotiate this at an early stage of planning. Furthermore, time must be
available in the host lab’s schedule during the periods when testing is planned. If
many studies are already being carried out, this may cause scheduling difﬁculties.
Again, early planning makes a difference.
In the study described here, four different countries were involved: Germany, the
Netherlands, Canada and the US. In total, the number of labs at which testing took
place was nine: Berlin,1
Hamburg2
and Mainz3
in Germany; Groningen4
and
Leiden5
in the Netherlands; London, ON6
and Toronto7
in Canada; and Chicago8
and New York City9
in the US.
1
Technical University of Berlin, Dept. of Cognitive Modelling in Dynamical Man-Machine
Systems.
2
University of Hamburg, Department of Biological Psychology and Neuropsychology.
3
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Department of English and Linguistics.
4
The Neuroimaging Center of the University of Groningen and University Medical Center.
5
University of Leiden, Faculty of Humanities.
6
Western University (UWO), Department of Psychology.
7
Rotman Research Institute at Baycrest Hospital.
8
University of Illinois at Chicago, Department of Psychology.
9
City University New York, The Graduate Center.
30 3 The Multi-lab, Multi-language, Multi-method Challenge
3.3 Data Collection at Different Centers
When collecting data at multiple sites, it is inevitable that more than one person will
be involved in testing. Even when members of a large-scale project collaborate
closely it is important to agree upon a detailed protocol before testing begins.
Otherwise, differences in testing method will creep in which may initially appear
trivial but will later on compromise comparability of the data. The protocol should
thus consist of a step-by-step description of all tasks, from the information to be
given to participants up to and including which buttons participants should press in
order to initiate a response and how the equipment is to be set up and calibrated in
order for the experiments to run properly.
As was noted above, the key to collecting data at multiple centers is good
planning. This entails that time must be allocated in the workflow for preparations
so that everything is ready to go when lab space becomes available according to the
agreements with the host lab. Flexibility and willingness to cooperate are essential
for the guest researcher, as is sensitivity to the priorities of the partner lab: Research
being carried out by an external researcher will generally, and understandably, take
a back seat to experiments conducted by the host lab’s own staff and students. In
order to ensure that the study can be run at any time that the lab becomes available,
attention should be paid to a number of aspects.
Hardware: First, the experiment should be ready to run. It is advisable, where
possible, to bring equipment, such as cameras, audio recorders, and laptops for the
presentation of the experiment and/or the acquisition of the data. No further
preparation is then necessary and this makes it easier to use exactly the same
procedures for the data processing and analysis. However, bringing equipment is
not always possible, and where the experiment has to rely on the equipment
available in the host lab, some level of variability is inevitable. As long as the
hardware is reasonably compatible, this should not be an insurmountable issue, and
Chaps. 5 and 6 below set out some of the steps that need to be taken in order to
ensure that data collected at multiple sites by means of eye-tracking and EEG is
comparable.
The degree of difﬁculty of combining data from multiple sites may also depend
on the effects that a study aims to investigate. For example, our eye tracking study
used a visual world paradigm with comparatively large areas of interest (AoI) on the
screen. This is easier to compare across different eye trackers than for example a
reading study where gaze direction is measured based on much smaller AoIs on the
screen (see Chap. 5). Similarly, in our EEG experiment, we were chiefly interested
in two components (the N400 and the P600) which have large amplitudes and broad
scalp distributions (see Chap. 6). This made it easier to compare across hardware
than if we had aimed for a component with a more limited scalp distribution and
smaller amplitude where exact equivalence of the set-ups (such as the placement of
the electrodes) might have been more important.
Software: It is advisable, wherever possible, that the same software be used in
every lab, software being easier to transport than hardware. That said, the recording
3.3 Data Collection at Different Centers 31
software (which acquires the actual eye movements or the actual EEG) usually
comes with the recording hardware, and we do not recommend trying to switch to a
different software unless extremely good technical support is available for this
purpose. Using the same presentation software, on the other hand, will not only
save having to re-program experiments (which may be very labor-intensive), it also
guarantees comparable presentation parameters.10
If installation of the presentation
software in the lab is not possible, the use of a laptop with the software used in the
experiment as the presentation computer may be the best option. However, even if
the same presentation software is available at all labs, the experiments have to be
checked and adjusted for use. For example, different eye trackers need
hardware-speciﬁc plug-ins for presentation software, such as E-Prime to coordinate
with the eye-tracker, and different EEG systems and set-ups require speciﬁc codes
in the E-prime script to ensure that the stimuli can be correctly identiﬁed in the EEG
output. This means that information on matters such as port names, trigger codes or
port resetting, may be necessary in order for the script to run on the system. Since
timing is central for EEG measurements, the modiﬁcations will have to be
double-checked before data collection can safely proceed.
Before the actual data collection begins, it is also important to have procedures
established for converting the data from different labs to a single format for later
analysis. It is advisable to run a pilot study and compare the data between centers in
order to ensure that the presentation software, its interface with local recording
equipment and the data conversion all work properly. This will prevent unpleasant
surprises, in the worst case after data collection has ﬁnished and adjustments are no
longer possible.
In order to resolve these problems, it can be advisable to hire a local research
assistant who is familiar with the lab and the setup. In such cases, it should be kept
in mind that an extra induction period may be necessary to train the RA on the use
of any speciﬁc software and the experiment itself, and for the project team member
to be trained on the use of the local hardware. Even researchers familiar with one
type of eye-tracker or EEG recording system may require training in order to be
able to use another. Using other people’s set-ups requires extra care and therefore
extra training and sometimes additional insurance may also be necessary. Here it is
important to bear in mind that some insurance companies in other parts of the world
will not automatically cover damages incurred in North America due to the high
claims culture in the United States and Canada. Such considerations may seem like
minor details, but if not planned for, they may cause substantial delays and addi-
tional expense.
Data storage and back-up: The data collected from multiple sites will need to be
stored and backed up in one place. Multiple project members may need to have
access to the data, which makes it necessary to have a well-organized, structured
and secure back-up system. With data being transferred from one institute to the
10
In the present study, E-Prime (1 or 2, Psychology Software Tools) was used to program all
experiments.
32 3 The Multi-lab, Multi-language, Multi-method Challenge
other, it is crucial to keep in mind that data have to be anonymized so that par-
ticipants’ personal information cannot be connected with their names. Secure data
storage and encrypted transfer are non-negotiable when it comes to any data where
individuals are concerned.
3.4 The Role of Local Assistants
Local assistants can make a substantial difference to the ease with which a multi-lab
study is carried out, in that they not only reduce the expense incurred by the project
member’s stay but can also decrease the duration of the ﬁeldwork by a wide
margin. However, since assistants who are hired locally are not as closely involved
in the project’s genesis, a clear, detailed and fail-safe protocol becomes even more
essential. The ideal candidate for such a research assistantship is someone who is
already trained in the lab. Hiring assistants from the host institution, who can also
help familiarize the project member her- or himself with the equipment and pro-
tocols of the local lab if necessary, will often save time. It should be kept in mind,
however, that the assistant does not have ﬁnal responsibility for the data and the
project member responsible for testing on location must acquire the necessary
expertise before data acquisition commences.
A local assistant can also facilitate recruitment of participants well in advance.
Recruitment is often a time-consuming procedure, in particular where very speciﬁc
requirements obtain regarding the testing population, so the earlier it can be started,
the better. Local assistants not only often have better access to the target com-
munity, they can also be indispensable as speakers of the target languages in cases
where the project member does not have the necessary proﬁciency. In the example
study, the project members responsible for data collection in North America, where
both Dutch and German attriters were tested, could not be native speakers of both
languages, and assistants who complemented the native speaker criteria were a
valuable addition to the team.
These requirements imply that it may often be necessary to ﬁnd more than one
assistant, in order to provide the necessary skills, both technical and linguistic, in
particular since their availability for the entire duration of the project may be a
further issue. Additionally, the host institution may have speciﬁc requirements
research assistants need to comply with before they can start working at the site, for
example, following a required training, having certain immunizations (TB,
Hepatitis B) or being screened for any criminal records. Lastly, native speakers of
some languages may be precluded from taking on paid employment due to visa
restrictions. Taken together, these concerns can make ﬁnding and training assistants
time-consuming, but suitable assistants may well be crucial to the project’s success.
3.3 Data Collection at Different Centers 33
3.5 Planning Ahead: Visas, Ethics and Hurricanes
There are several more factors which can interfere with planning during the
preparations before going to the host institution. Where multi-country studies are
concerned, it is important to be aware of and plan for visa requirements and to
assess these at an early point so as to allow sufﬁcient time for any complications
that may arise, since unexpectedly long visa procedures can easily delay the onset
of the study. Another potentially serious complication for multi-lab settings is
formed by experimental ethics procedures, particularly if some of the labs are in
different countries where the standard procedures are less familiar to the research
group. In North America, for example, the ethics boards follow national guidelines
which often require completing an online course before an ethics application can be
approved (information about the relevant requirements can be found on-line or
through contact with the host lab).
Furthermore, ethics approval procedures tend to differ between pure research
institutions and medical facilities. EEG labs are frequently part of an institute
situated in a hospital environment and therefore fall under the medical ethics board,
whose requirements are typically more stringent due to the potential involvement of
patients. The ethics approval procedures may take a substantial time (in our
experience up to six months) before permission to test is given, but it is crucial that
they be scrupulously followed and applied. This also means that participants must
(a) be fully informed about the experimental procedures beforehand, including the
discomforts of EEG measurements and that recordings will be made, (b) realize that
they are not bound in any way to complete the experiment if they choose not to, and
(c) be aware that care will be taken with any personal data that they share so that it
cannot become public.
Despite all we can do to prepare, the actual duration of the testing period will
almost certainly be longer than originally planned. It may be more difﬁcult than
anticipated to recruit the target population and therefore necessary to continue
testing longer than originally intended. The host institution should always be
appraised of any such potential delay. Furthermore, it is wise never to discount the
possibility of other events that are outside of the control of the researcher. It may
seem far-fetched to anticipate, for example, the impact of a natural disaster such as a
hurricane, a flood or an earthquake, but as we found out within our own study, if
one does take place it can seriously throw out the project schedule. Obviously,
participants in areas affected by such events may be unavailable for months to
come. So, even when devising the best laid plans, keep in mind that natural
disasters, illness, and many other things may potentially interfere to an unpredict-
able extent.
34 3 The Multi-lab, Multi-language, Multi-method Challenge
3.6 Checklists11
Preparation Steps
Contacting possible host labs for accessibility
time periods available
contacts for further technical information
Drawing up experimental protocol
Detailed protocol for all aspects of data collection and storage, with
site-specific annotations
Secure storage protocol with clearly defined structure for remote
storage of data
Protocol for anonymization of participant information
Determine what set-up is used in the lab (where relevant):
how compatible is the hardware?
is the same presentation software being used at all sites? If not, can
presentation software be installed? How does presentation software
communicate with hardware and recording software?
how easy is data conversion for joint analysis?
Estimate time necessary on site in order to
learn different set-up, adapt experimental presentation
train assistants and adapt protocol with local details
recruit and run participants: if population is limited, more time will
be necessary
Check visa regulations for working in the lab (where relevant)
estimate time necessary to fulfill requirements
remember multiple-entry visa may be necessary
Check ethics procedures and other requirements of the host institution:
estimate time necessary
check what the restrictions are for studies (e.g. certain questions in
questionnaires or certain tests or time limits)
check what the restrictions are for data storage and transfer
Check procedures for hiring research assistants
estimate time necessary
11
Please note that these steps are not necessarily in chronological order. Each project will probably
need to revise them at various stages, as they are often dependent on one another.
3.6 Checklists 35
Budget checklist
Project member’s costs
e.g. travel, accommodation, car hire
Buying or paying for equipment (where relevant)
e.g. caps for EEG
Research assistant (where relevant)
Expenses of lab use
e.g. price per session, costs of consumables
Check whether insurance is necessary for use of the lab of for participants
Participant expenses
e.g. reimbursement, travel expenses, parking
36 3 The Multi-lab, Multi-language, Multi-method Challenge
Chapter 4
Collecting and Analyzing
Spontaneous Speech Data
Christopher Bergmann
Abstract Spontaneous speech samples can serve several purposes within a lan-
guage acquisition study. First, spontaneous speech can be used in various ways to
assess the proﬁciency of individuals, for example via accent ratings, measures of
lexical variability, and frequency of different types of errors. It can also be an object
of analysis in its own right, for example in examining interactions between lin-
guistic variables and potential trade-off effects, including factors such as the use of
ﬁxed expressions, sentence complexity or speech rate as well as the interaction
between them. Finally, it can provide a comparison of production with processing
or comprehension measures. While the analysis of this sort of data is not, in
principle, different for a large scale study like this than for a single dedicated study,
the versatility of information it allows the researcher to assess is easy to underes-
timate. This chapter will discuss the collection, transcription, coding and analysis of
spontaneous speech samples, serving as an exploration and reminder of some of
those possibilities as well as an introduction to how to make use of them.
Keywords Bilingualism  Methodology  Free speech  Grammatical gender
4.1 Introduction
Free speech can form a valuable addition not only to large-scale studies, such as the
one described here, but also to dedicated studies which do not focus on spontaneous
data in any of the ways listed above. As we stressed in Chap. 1, dedicated studies of
microlinguistic features can be difﬁcult to integrate into the literature as a whole
because they differ on too many variables. It may therefore prove fruitful to have
free speech data available, since such data may be used to calibrate the speaker
characteristics of particular investigations for a broader comparison or meta-study.
The ﬁrst section of this chapter will discuss a number of linguistic phenomena
that can readily be investigated in free speech data as well as some of its limitations.
© The Author(s) 2016
M.S. Schmid et al., Designing Research on Bilingual Development,
SpringerBriefs in Linguistics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-11529-0_4
37
In the second, we will address practical matters related to the collection, prepara-
tion, transcription and analysis of free speech data. For all these procedures, in
particular where the transcription format is concerned, a range of options exist. We
will limit our discussion to the CHAT system—by no means the only one available,
but one which is widely used, well documented, flexible and user-friendly. Many of
the suggestions we make here apply equally or similarly to other formats. The ﬁnal
section addresses how the data can be annotated for actual analysis, exempliﬁed by
a coding system that we have devised for coding gender errors. The term ‘coding’ is
used to refer to manually adding a layer of information to transcribed data, in this
case morphological information about grammatical gender in German speech
samples.
4.2 Areas of Investigation
As was pointed out above, free speech lends itself to analysis on a wide range of
linguistic levels. Since an exhaustive discussion of these matters is beyond the
scope of the present text, we will exemplify applications based on three areas which
typically play a large role in language acquisition research: phonetics, speech
disfluencies, and lexical choice. We will highlight some aspects of those phe-
nomena that can most readily be investigated using free speech data.
4.2.1 Phonetics and Phonology
Recordings of free speech, provided they are of sufﬁcient quality (see below), are
very well suited for investigations of phonological and phonetic questions. The
main advantage of this type of data lies in the fact that it investigates the naturalistic
production of speech sounds, a context that is less open to the application of explicit
knowledge and conscious monitoring than many other elicitation tasks (e.g. word
list reading), which foster slow and careful enunciation, artiﬁcially producing or
magnifying phonetic and phonemic distinctions that are obscured or absent in
natural speech. Free speech also elicits phenomena that are idiosyncratic to fast,
connected speech.
One disadvantage of using this type of data lies in the fact that it is less easy to
ensure the actual production of the intended phonemes or phones. This can lead to
problems in cases where the elicited speech samples do not contain a sufﬁcient
number of the target speech sounds or of the various contexts in which they occur.
In particular where less frequent sounds or sound combinations are concerned, it is
wise to assess the reliability of their occurrence based on pilot recordings and
ascertain that each speech sample will contain at least twice the number of pro-
ductions that are deemed necessary for analysis. If this turns out not to be the case,
further methods of elicitation should be considered (see below).
38 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
A further advantage of free speech is that, unlike data from more targeted
elicitation methods (such as list reading or grammaticality judgments), it can be
used as the basis for global native speaker ratings of naturalness or
nativeness/accentedness of pronunciation. Such ratings can then be compared to the
acoustic measurements.
4.2.2 Disfluencies
Fluency is a second area of investigation which has been much addressed, in
particular in bilingualism research, over the past decades, and for which recordings
of free speech are crucial. It is an inherent characteristic of free speech that speakers
—including monolingual natives—hesitate, pause, stumble over their words, start
over and derail their own trains of thought much more often than in other types of
task (e.g. reading aloud tasks). These disfluencies have captured the interest of a
large psycholinguistic community and are considered a window on both the mental
representation of language and the organization of speech production processes.
Disfluencies are ubiquitous in spontaneous language use; they have been esti-
mated to affect 5–10 % of all words and up to one third of all utterances (Shriberg
2002). They can be coded in a fairly straightforward way once the recordings have
been transcribed (see below). What makes disfluencies so interesting is that, at ﬁrst
sight, they only seem to be random interruptions in the speech stream. In fact, they
have been shown to be intimately linked to the language-speciﬁc structures that are
being produced. As a consequence, to the extent that second-language learners are
not native-like, they do not hesitate and stumble in the same way as a native speaker
would (Hieke 1981).
4.2.3 Lexical Variability
A third area of investigation in which free speech data have been widely used
concerns lexical choice. Range and accessibility in real time of the mental lexicon
vary substantially between populations, and free speech data make it possible to
estimate these characteristics. Again, it is an advantage that spontaneous recordings
of more than a few minutes of naturalistic speech typically contain a sufﬁcient
amount of data, even without special elicitation techniques, and that these data can
be extracted conveniently once the recordings have been transcribed. A very
common measure is lexical diversity, that is, the range of the productive lexicon
that is being used. High lexical diversity is associated with a sophisticated
vocabulary, the use of low-frequency items and a low rate of repetition, while
low-diversity speech samples contain only more frequent words with many repe-
titions. Lexical diversity has been found to be reduced even in highly proﬁcient
second-language learners as opposed to native speakers (Sanz Espinar 1999; Noyau
4.2 Areas of Investigation 39
and Paprocka 2000). This aspect can be particularly interesting for research that is
based on longitudinal acquisition data or the speech production of impaired pop-
ulations. Using software like CLAN (see below), both the traditional type/token
ratio (i.e. the quotient of distinct words and the individual occurrences of these
words in a sample) as well as more sophisticated estimates of lexical diversity, such
as D (for a comparison of some methods see McCarthy and Jarvis 2010), can be
calculated automatically. This software can also handle the necessary preprocessing
steps, such as lemmatization (so that different inflected forms of the same lemma are
not counted as two different words) for a number of languages.
Free speech samples are also useful for investigating lexical access at the level of
phrasal chunks (Ellis 2003), that is, of lexical elements that form larger units. Just
like disfluencies, such phrasemes—or ﬁxed expressions—are of interest for
psycholinguists. It has been assumed that spontaneous speech production is speeded
up by the ability to retrieve not only individual lemmas from the mental lexicon, but
also groups of words that contribute to a shared meaning. Since these phrases have
a ‘precompiled’ structure and meaning, a higher density of these phrasemes might
be correlated with an increased articulation rate; this can easily be tested using
recordings of free speech. However, it has to be taken into consideration that coding
ﬁxed expressions in free speech cannot be done automatically and is therefore more
effortful and time-consuming than simple probes into lexical diversity, which can
be fully automated. A clear deﬁnition of what constitutes a ﬁxed expression or
chunk is also necessary (for an overview, see Wray 1999, 2002).
4.3 Elicitation and Data Collection
4.3.1 The Film Retelling Task
In the study that this book is based on, we made use of a ﬁlm-retelling task that has
been used frequently in second-language research. The paradigm we used was
developed in the 1980s as part of a European Science Foundation project on L2
acquisition among adult immigrants (Klein and Perdue 1989). It consists of showing
participants a 10 min extract from a ﬁlm and audio-taping them while they retell the
content of the sequence immediately afterwards. The excerpt originates from the
silent ﬁlm ‘Modern Times’ (1936), starring Charlie Chaplin and Paulette Goddard; it
starts around 33 min into the ﬁlm. There are a number of advantages associated with
using this particular ﬁlm and sequence: First, data elicited in this manner is compa-
rable to a large and growing number of datasets in a variety of linguistic ﬁelds;
second, the fragment has a balanced distribution of action-packed scenes on the one
hand and more reflective episodes on the other, giving the participants the option both
to describe the actual storyline and to muse about the signiﬁcance of some more
symbolic parts of the ﬁlm, eliciting a wider range of lexical items; third, ‘Modern
Times’ is a silent ﬁlm, making it accessible to a wide range of audiences and offering
40 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
little to no support for lexical access. It does contain some music as well as a small
number of English-language intertitles, but neither are crucial for understanding the
plot of the sequence, which can be summarized as follows:
Charlie Chaplin, newly released from prison, takes a job at a shipyard and, while trying to
ﬁnd a wedge-shaped piece of wood for his supervisor, causes an unﬁnished ship to sink. He
leaves the job (presumably to pre-empt being ﬁred) and takes a walk into town where he
meets a homeless young woman who has been caught stealing a loaf of bread. Charlie takes
the theft upon himself—maybe because he wants to go back to prison, maybe out of his
liking and pity for the girl. The plan fails: He is set free, the girl is arrested. He goes for
lunch and has himself arrested as well for not paying the bill. Using the fact that his
arresting ofﬁcer is momentarily distracted, he compounds his offense by stealing a cigar and
some chocolate for two passing children from a kiosk. He ends up in a crowded paddy
wagon, where the bread-stealing woman joins him and he re-introduces himself to her. An
accident offers them the chance to escape together. Eventually, they rest on the curbside in a
rich part of town, where they witness a scene of domestic bliss between a, presumably
newlywed, couple. There, they fantasize about having a home of their own and becoming
husband and (house)wife—a dream that is disrupted by the sudden appearance of a
policeman who does not know that they are on the run, but chases them from their resting
place as loiterers.
Depending on the population being tested, it is useful to consider whether the
audience will be familiar with some settings or items in the ﬁlm, such as a shipyard
or a telephone. The ﬁlm may also not be entirely suitable for eliciting free speech in
children below elementary school age.
One legal caveat: In most countries, ‘Modern Times’ is not considered to be in
the public domain and can therefore not be lawfully obtained from the internet for
free; it is, however, purchasable from all major online providers of books, DVDs
and ﬁlm downloads. We also advise checking whether showing experimental
participants an excerpt from the ﬁlm is seen as a public screening under local laws;
if so, it may be necessary to obtain an ofﬁcial authorization or pay license fees.
It is also necessary to ensure that the presentation of the sequence and the
elicitation procedure are the same across all participants. We have opted for
showing the fragment only once in one go, and not allowing participants to take
notes while they watch. Remaining in the same room as the participants allows
interaction with them, if necessary. Interruptions or interference, such as ambient
noise, should be avoided wherever possible. Minor background sounds can be
rendered less disruptive by using circumaural headphones (entirely enclosing the
ears) instead of loudspeakers if noise in the testing area is likely. If the presentation
is disturbed by any outside event or by the participants’ unexpectedly diverting their
attention from the ﬁlm, playback should be stopped as quickly as possible and the
ﬁle be rewound by about 10–15 s before it is started again. After the end of the ﬁlm,
participants may require a few instants to reflect upon what they saw before starting
their narrative; this can occur while putting the recording equipment into position if
necessary. There should, however, not be a prolonged pause after the screening, so
that participants can retell what they saw fresh from memory.
During the retelling, quiet and noise-free surroundings are even more imperative
to ensure good audio quality. Lab settings might seem sterile and impersonal, but in
4.3 Elicitation and Data Collection 41
most households and al fresco environments, it will be difﬁcult to locate a spot
where the participant’s retelling is the only sound in the environment. Even a
washing machine in an adjacent room, clattering dishes or bird song through an
open window may cause signiﬁcant data loss—and be extremely irritating for the
transcriber.
While the present section focuses on the use and analysis of audio recordings, it
should also be pointed out that there is considerable recent interest in speech gesture
(e.g., Gullberg and McCafferty 2008). Free speech of the type that is elicited by this
task is suitable for gesture analysis, so it may be advisable to not only audio- but
also videotape the retelling. When videotaping, participants should be placed in
front of a light, plain background, without a table in front of them, and the
experimenter should be seated next to the camera, so that the participant looks
toward it as a natural consequence of orienting toward the listener. Participants
should also be seated in a chair without armrests, as these can make them
gesture-lazy. Nothing should be within reach that could influence or interrupt their
gestural behavior, such as drinking glasses, pens or other small objects that can be
used to ﬁdget with. If only an audio recording is made, comfort is the only criterion
for seating.
We have discussed the importance of informed consent before (see Sect. 3.5),
but we would like to emphasize particularly that participants have to be made
explicitly aware that they will be audio- or videotaped. Since video recording is
more sensitive for many participants, it is possible to give subjects the possibility to
opt out of the videotaping and only retell the ﬁlm in front of an audio recorder. If
video data are more central to the whole study, this will not be an option, of course.
The retelling should put the participant at center stage; the experimenter’s
contribution should be kept to an absolute minimum. After making sure that all
recording devices are running, a few carefully chosen standard cues to remind
participants of what they are supposed to do and to prompt them to start their
retelling should be employed. A typical cue would be: ‘I want you to recount the
plot of the ﬁlm fragment you just saw. Please try to provide as much detail as you
can. I will not ask any more questions once you have started talking, so just keep
going until you are done. Is everything clear to you? Great, tell me then: What was
the sequence about?’
Even if it seems rude, it is important to refrain from verbally interacting with the
participant (and from gesturing, when videotaping the participant’s gestures) to
avoid interfering with the retelling. Subjects regularly address the experimenter
directly or even ask for help ﬁnding words, especially in populations with less than
fully native proﬁciency. Smile politely and try not to say a word. Most participants
do not actually need the help, but will bootstrap themselves sooner or later by
ﬁnding synonyms or resorting to different constructions. Only in the most extreme
cases of participants getting caught in their own linguistic web, should the
researcher say something like ‘Don’t worry, just tell me the next thing you
remember.’
Sometimes participants get stalled due to being unable to remember the next
scene they want to describe. Again, it is preferable to give them some time to ﬁgure
42 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
it out themselves. If it becomes absolutely necessary to put them back on track,
general questions like ‘What does Charlie do next?’ or ‘Do you remember what the
girl did?’ should precede actually giving them a lead on the content. If someone
makes factual errors in retelling the story or mixes up the sequence of events, there
is no need to point it out to them, since the content is not central to the elicitation. If
important scenes are omitted, it is possible to revisit these after participants have
ﬁnished their retellings, starting with unspeciﬁc questions (‘I think you have not
told me about the scene where Charlie does something terribly stupid, have you?’)
before trying to jog their memory more explicitly.
4.3.2 Ensuring Adequate Audio Recording Quality
While the recording environment is important for audio quality, the equipment is no
less so. Mobile phones, headsets and other devices that can record audio or video,
but are not speciﬁcally designed to do so, are not up to the task. The recorder should
have two main characteristics: First, it should use a solid-state disk (SSD) instead of
any other storage device. SSDs are more robust than electromechanical disks, they
produce less noise while saving data (which interferes with the recording quality)
and they have shorter access times. This makes them more expensive than other
storage media by a factor of up to ten, but it is worth the investment, particularly
since audio data do not take up a lot of storage space, so not many will be required.
Second, the recorder should support the connection of a dynamic microphone
using an XLR connector. Among professional microphones, dynamic ones are most
resistant to adverse conditions, such as moisture and rough treatment (and certainly
more so than condenser microphones). They are also fairly affordable and do not
require an additional preampliﬁer. XLR does not have any immediate advantage
above other types of audio transmission, but it is standard for the best microphones.
We used a TASCAM DR-100 recorder (in the $200–300 price range as of 2015) as
well as various Sennheiser microphones (in the $100–150 price range as of 2015)
that satisfy all the requirements mentioned above.
Professional recorders provide a choice among different ﬁle formats for storing
recordings. The best choice is an uncompressed ﬁle, typically in the Waveform
Audio File Format (WAVE or WAV). The ﬁle size will be fairly large (around
15 MB for 3 min of speech), but phonetic detail will not be compromised by lossy
data compression. If the ﬁles are to be used for phonetic analysis, no audio com-
pression of any type should be used. Even if this is not the original intention, free
speech data can be employed for more than the original goal; recording with future
applications in mind can save effort in gathering more data.
For transcription or other purposes, the ﬁles can be converted to the MP3 format
or another format which takes up less space. MP3s use various compression
algorithms, resulting in considerably smaller ﬁles, the size of which depends on the
amount of data that is stored per second of the recording. This amount is typically
expressed as a so-called bit rate in kilobytes per second (kb/s or kbps). The same
4.3 Elicitation and Data Collection 43
3 min ﬁle that takes up 15 MB of disk space as a WAV ﬁle can become as small as
2 MB when compressed and saved at a bit rate of around 96 kbps (the absolute
minimum for retaining sufﬁcient data). Most ﬁle converters support the use of
variable bit rates for which the amount of data stored will also depend on the
amount of data available in the original ﬁle. There are various other types of
compressed audio ﬁles, but the advantage of MP3s is that they can be played on
virtually every device that supports audio ﬁles. Again, even if phonetic analyses are
not a consideration, it is best not to delete the original WAV ﬁles. This is because
an accumulation of data loss inevitably occurs when processing and resaving even
in highest-quality MP3s.
4.3.3 Eliciting Speciﬁc Data
Free speech has many strengths, but one weakness is that it may not sample enough
of one speciﬁc variable of interest. We therefore briefly turn to the question of how
to elicit free speech which includes more speciﬁc data, such as particular phonemes.
We have had the experience that even in fairly long retellings (10–15 min), it may
be impossible to ﬁnd a sufﬁcient number of analyzable tokens of some
medium-frequency phonemes of German, such as /œ/, /oː/and /yː/. Having partic-
ipants read out lists of sentences has the disadvantage that they are likely to be more
careful, and may use conscious strategies that do not represent their standard use.
The middle ground between standard retellings and lists of words or sentences
would be the retelling of a more directed stimulus created for the speciﬁc purpose.
Picture stories, for instance, have been found to work well. If the target is, for
example, to elicit the German phonemes /œ/, /oː/and /yː/ mentioned above, one
might construct a cartoon strip that revolves around two squirrels (Eichhörnchen)
who go to the flea market (Flohmarkt) to sell a pile of books (Bücher). Such
manipulations are both inconspicuous and effective. For other ideas on how to elicit
particular grammatical constructions, tensed forms or referring expressions like
pronouns, any number of possible paradigms ranging from relatively free to rela-
tively ﬁxed can be found in the literature. In particular, investigations of child
language acquisition are often extremely imaginative when it comes to inventing
good elicitation strategies.
4.4 Transcription
The next step is to decide on an appropriate system of transcription for the audio
recordings. CHAT, the transcription system that we recommend and describe here,
has a number of advantages, in particular when it comes to research on bilin-
gualism: One of them is that ﬁles created following the CHAT format can be
processed by means of the CLAN program. This free software supports automatic
44 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
assessment of the frequency of lexical items in the transcriptions, helps with
morphological tagging and offers a number of other analysis options.
CHAT and CLAN were developed within the CHILDES project under the
direction of Brian MacWhinney (MacWhinney 2014a, b). The system, the docu-
mentation and the publications are freely available online (http://childes.psy.cmu.
edu/) and, along with our own experience, form the basis of this section. For those
with no familiarity with transcribing free speech data, this crash course is meant to
provide some clarity on whether delving into the voluminous handbooks is worth
the effort. We cover only the basics of transcribing and do not go into the wider
scope and more sophisticated applications of CHAT and CLAN; for that, the reader
is referred to the publications on the CHILDES website.
The ﬁrst decision to be taken is whether to transcribe orthographically or pho-
netically. IPA characters present difﬁculties for many programs, so phonetic tran-
scriptions more usually use (X-)SAMPA or another ASCII-based transcription
system. CHAT deals with any system as long as the ﬁles are encoded in UTF-8
format. This is speciﬁed in the ﬁrst of the headers that mark the beginning and end
of every valid ﬁle containing transcriptions in the CHAT format:
1. @UTF8
@Begin
@Languages: deu, eng
@Participants: PTC FT374 Subject, INT John_Doe Investigator
@ID: language|corpus|code|age|sex|group|SES|role|education|custom|
…
…
…
@End
The second header simply marks the beginning of the ﬁle. The corresponding
header @End has to appear on the very last line of the transcript. In the third header,
@Languages, all languages are indicated that are spoken in the recording being
transcribed. CHAT expects language codes from the ISO 639-3 standard (www-01.
sil.org/iso639-3/codes.asp). The fourth header requires three-letter abbreviations for
all speakers in the recording as well as their full names using an underscore to separate
the ﬁrst and the last name, or (as here) participant codes and a speciﬁcation of their
role in the experimental setting (a list of possible roles, such as Child, Sibling,
Student, Adult, etc. can be found in the CHAT manual). The ﬁfth header is the most
complex one, with ten different slots to register the corpus that the recording at hand
belongs to, the sex, age and educational level of the participant etc. The ﬁrst three
ﬁelds—language (e.g. ‘deu, eng’), corpus (‘L2 speakers’), speaker code (‘PTC’)—
and the second before last—speaker role (‘Subject’)—are mandatory. All other ﬁelds
can be left empty, if they are not to be considered in the investigation. In headers 3–5,
a tab stop, rather than a space, has to be inserted after the colon.
Everything that has been spoken and is transcribed orthographically appears on
the so-called main tier or utterance tier. Every line of this type has to conform to a
4.4 Transcription 45
basic structure: an asterisk, followed by the three letter code of the person speaking
(as speciﬁed in the fourth header above), a colon and a tab stop, followed by the
transcription of a single utterance (one sentence or phrase). Lines typically end with
a full stop, a question mark or exclamation mark:
2. *XYZ: the transcribed text goes here.
Full stops, question or exclamation marks cannot be used within words and
utterances, that is, no utterance tier may contain more than one sentence. Commas,
semicolons, square brackets ([]) and angle brackets (<>) are also not accepted
within words because they serve internal syntactic functions. Capital letters should
only be used when the orthography for the word class in the language you are
transcribing requires them (e.g. not to mark the beginning of a line or sentence).
This is important if you are considering automatized morphological analysis:
Regardless of the word form, any word beginning with a capital will be classiﬁed as
a proper noun, even if it is, for example, a preposition beginning a sentence.
Following general orthographic rules is a good foundation for transcription when
phonetic transcription is not used. Use spaces to separate words, even if the lan-
guage being transcribed does not typically use them. Start a new line for every new
clause or complete utterance which is less than a clause. A possible guideline is that
every ﬁnite verb, along with whatever it directly governs, goes on one line.
Subordinate clauses are also governed by ﬁnite verbs in the superordinate main
clause, but the ﬁnite verb in the embedded clause takes precedence over the one in
the matrix clause:
3. *XYZ: she wanted to know +/.
*XYZ: +, why they were convinced +/.
*XYZ: +, he was involved in the larceny +/.
*XYZ: +, that was discovered by police recently.
Note that lines which contain an entire clause, but not an entire sentence end with
‘+/.’ instead of a full stop only, and that continuations within a single sentence
begin with ‘+,’ to indicate which lines belong together.
One more convention to be aware of concerns the transcription of abbreviations
and numbers. The recommended format—abbreviations separated by underscores
and numbers written out—is seen here:
4. *XYZ: we have been living in the U_S_A for forty years.
In languages like English, compounds that are typically written as one word (such
as ‘rainbow’ or ‘eyebrow’) can be transcribed following general orthography. For
hyphenated compounds and compounds in other languages, a plus sign (+) is used,
as well as replacing hyphens in English.
5. *XYZ: she was wearing an eccentric blue+green dress.
Names of organizations (World Health Organization), titles of works (A Portrait of
the Artist as a Young Man) and similar compound phrases (Little Red Riding Hood)
46 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
that would normally be italicized or enclosed in quotation marks, should also be
joined by underscores:
6. *XYZ: he sat in his armchair, rereading Against_the_Day.
In any language, transcribe what is actually said rather than correcting it. If a
participant says ‘we gonna’, the transcript should as well, rather than ‘we are going
to’. For reduced forms, brackets serve to indicate the full form, such as in the
following sentence, as an aide to interpretation at a later stage:
7. *XYZ: he (i)s convinced that we can (no)t help (th)em.
If the reduced form only bears a passing resemblance to the full form, the latter can
be added between square brackets:
8. *XYZ: whadya [: what did you] do to get out there?
Some pronunciation basics can also be speciﬁed on the main tier line. This holds for
stress, sound lengthening and word-internal pauses: Stress is indicated by two
symbols from the International Phonetic alphabet (ˈ and ˌ), lengthening by a colon
(:) and word-internal pauses by a circumflex (^):
9. *XYZ: it was an ˈabsoˌlutely hu:ge concate^nation of problems.
As we already mentioned, free speech data are typically not produced in a fully
fluent fashion. This makes it important to consistently code markers of disfluency,
such as ﬁlled pauses (10), empty pauses (11), stuttering (12), repetitions (13),
retracings (14) and reformulations (15):
10. *XYZ: this is the place where we ah@fp worked back then.
The code ‘ah@fp’ corresponds to any type of ﬁlled pause (henceforth ‘fp’) in the
recording, such as ‘uhm’ or ‘hm’. Unless the phonetic form of the various pauses is
of interest, one general label (such as ‘ah’) can be used for all ﬁlled pauses,
followed by ‘@fp’. Empty pauses are indicated in the transcript by a full stop in
round brackets:
11. *XYZ: I have tasted it and it was not exactly (.) delicious.
You can also put the exact measured length of the pause in seconds inside the
brackets, that is, ‘(3.4)’ instead of ‘(.)’.This information is much easier to retrieve
during transcription than later, so considering whether to do this beforehand is
advisable.
If a speaker stutters before (or even without) uttering an entire word, all failed
attempts at producing the word are marked with an ampersand:
12. *XYZ: she could &re &re relate to what I had told her.
Repetitions are distinguished from stuttering, as are retracings (new attempts at the
same sentence structure) and reformulations (entirely discarding the previous sen-
tence and starting afresh). The part of the utterance that is being repeated or
replaced is enclosed in angle brackets, followed by one, two or three forward
4.4 Transcription 47
slashes in square brackets for repetitions, retracings and reformulations
respectively:
13. *XYZ: he was asked <to report> [/] to report to the manager.
14. *XYZ: they <have refused to> [//] were not inclined to do it.
15. *XYZ: <I wanted to> [///] she tried to avoid this encounter.
CHAT also provides transcription conventions for recordings containing
code-switching, that is, utterances in one language that are interspersed with words
from other languages or varieties (16), for unintelligible speech (17), for omitted
words (18) and for errors (19).
16. *XYZ: Austria is famous for its delicious Germknödel@s:deu.
Code-switches are tagged using a so-called ‘special form marker’, a code where an
“at” sign (@) is followed by either a predeﬁned or a user-deﬁned code. The letter ‘s’
in the code used here stands for ‘second-language form’; as you see above, it can be
followed by a colon and the ISO code of the intruding language. Other predeﬁned
codes include markers for dialect forms (@d), neologisms (@n), onomatopoeia
(@o) and singing (@si).
Unintelligible forms are replaced by ‘xxx’ on the main tier; it is possible to add
another tier (another line of information following each main tier line) to add
phonetic transcriptions of utterances that do not have an obvious orthographical
equivalent (see next section). On this tier, unintelligible forms are coded as ‘yyy’
instead of ‘xxx’.
17. *XYZ: he couldn’t help xxx when he heard the news.
Words that are apparently omitted by the speaker can be added to the transcript. The
best available guess at which word is missing should be preceded by the digit
zero (0).
18. *XYZ: she came over and prodded me in 0the back.
If the speaker produces errors, an asterisk in square brackets is added after the
incorrect form. It is not strictly necessary to enclose the speech material that con-
tains the error in angle brackets, but we recommend doing so consistently, par-
ticularly when the error is not limited to the single word preceding the bracketed
asterisk, and to expedite providing a correction. Even on the main tier, more spe-
ciﬁc information can be provided about the nature of the error by using [*p] for
phonetic and phonological errors, [*m] for morphological errors, and [*s] for
semantic errors, which will speed searches for certain types of errors:
19. *XYZ: their performance <blowed [:: blew]> [* m] my mind!
We have concentrated on error coding, but CHAT offers a wide range of possi-
bilities for increasing the level of detail of the transcription. The full manual pro-
vides a lot of additional information beyond the general transcription guidelines that
we have outlined here. We will cover one additional possibility in the next section:
how to add a tier to code speciﬁc information of interest.
48 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
4.5 Speciﬁc Annotation for Target Analyses: Gender
Coding
Adding more information to a transcript can easily be accomplished by inserting a
dependent tier. This is another line that appears below the main tier and can contain
any kind of data desired. Unlike the main tier, dependent tiers begin with a percent
sign (%), followed by a three-letter code identifying the type of tier, a colon and a tab
stop. You can add as many dependent tier lines as deemed necessary to each indi-
vidual utterance (but no more than one tier of the same type). There are a few
standard dependent tiers, such as the %com tier for comments, the %err tier for
noting more information about errors that you have already marked on the main tier,
the %mor tier for morphological coding, the %pho tier for a phonetic transcription of
(parts of) the utterance on the main tier and the %tim tier for timing information to
keep track of the point in time in the recording that a line in the transcript refers to
(very useful if it becomes necessary to check the original recording).
The example here taken from our own study illustrates a coding system that we
devised for the analysis of the frequency and accuracy with which gender-marked
forms are used in spontaneous speech. Grammatical gender is as pervasive as it is
elusive for learners of German and Dutch, posing a considerable challenge even to
the most advanced L2 speakers of these languages (see Chap. 1). We therefore
wanted to know whether their productive performance in free speech distinguishes
them from a native control group or an attriter group, and to what extent the mastery
of productive gender correlates with other measurements of gender processing
collected from the same speakers. We therefore decided to code every (pro)nominal
element in the transcriptions of the retellings on a separate coding tier (which we
somewhat misleadingly called %fnp for ‘full noun phrase’, even though pronouns
were also coded here).
For reasons of brevity and clarity, the coding system, as exempliﬁed in the
present section, only gives the relevant German categories and word forms. Dutch
makes fewer distinctions with respect to gender than German. For that reason,
adapting the coding system to Dutch mainly involved deleting those categories that
are not marked in this language.
When setting up a coding system, it is important to ﬁrst compile all information
that should be coded, since omissions and oversights at this stage will lead to
problems later on. In our case, we were interested in (a) the grammatical form of the
element to be coded, (b) the type of element, (c) its basic morphosyntactic structure,
(d) its gender, number, case and deﬁniteness (all of which relate to determining
whether it is an error), (e) whether an error has occurred, and ﬁnally (f) the syntactic
antecedents for pronouns.
The orthographic form is the relevant part of the utterance tier, repeated between
quotation marks in the coding tier to identify the coding’s referent. The type of the
element can take three different levels: full noun, bare noun and pronoun.
Everything that is preceded by either a determiner or an adjective is considered to
be a full noun, whereas noun phrases that consist of nothing but the noun itself are
4.5 Speciﬁc Annotation for Target Analyses: Gender Coding 49
counted as ‘bare nouns’. The distinction between full nouns and bare nouns is
motivated by the fact that grammatical gender in German is not directly marked on
the nouns themselves, but on accompanying determiners or adjectives. Phrases that
are preceded by neither are thus not inflected for gender and cannot be ‘wrong’. It is
therefore sensible to exclude these ‘unmarkable’ elements from an error analysis,
since what we are interested in is the proportion of errors our participants make on
phrases that require marking.
We have applied a fairly ﬁne-grained classiﬁcation of different types of pronouns
and determiners. ‘Pronoun’ is an overarching category for eight different types of
pronouns listed here in alphabetical order:
demonstrative pronouns: der, diese, dieses etc. (this, that)
indeﬁnite pronouns: keine, keiner, niemand etc. (nobody, none)
interrogative pronouns: wer, wem, was etc. (who, whom, what)
personal pronouns: ich, sie, wir etc. (I, she, we)
possessive pronouns: mein, ihr, unser etc. (my, her/their, our)
reciprocal pronouns: sich, einander (each other)
reflexive pronouns: mich, sich, uns etc. (myself, herself, ourselves)
relative pronouns: der, dem, deren etc. (who, whom, that)
This list illustrates that it is best, when establishing categories for coding, to include
all possible categories, irrespective of whether they will eventually be used in the
analysis, since it is much easier to conflate categories after the fact than to go back
and recode further distinctions.
Apart from coding the type of pronoun, we also manually included information
about the noun referent of the pronoun. This is important in order to determine
whether pronouns are being used in a target-like manner by native and non-native
speakers alike. Even highly proﬁcient speakers who have knowledge of the
grammatical gender of a particular lexical item might lose track of which pronoun
they have to use when it occurs at a long distance from its antecedent (Hammer
et al. 2007). Consider a simple sentence like ‘Sie ist heruntergefallen’ (She fell
down). This is a grammatical sentence in German, as long as the feminine ana-
phoric personal pronoun sie does not refer to a masculine antecedent, such as der
Ball ‘the ball’. In most cases, gender marking on pronouns is thus unambiguous.
However, the sequence from the Charlie Chaplin ﬁlm described above features a
girl or young woman as a main character. ‘Girl’ is Mädchen in German, one of the
few words in which grammatical gender and biological sex are at odds with one
another, as the lexical item is of the neuter gender. This leads to pronominal
references to this noun sometimes being guided by grammatical gender and
sometimes by biological gender. Knowing the noun that a pronoun refers to will
enable us to analyze the reference pattern that our participants prefer for this and
other interesting cases.
The syntactic structure of the gender-marked elements was coded for full and
bare nouns. There are ﬁve different possible structures in our coding system: (1) ‘N’
for bare nouns; (2) ‘Det+N’ for nouns preceded by a determiner; (3) ‘Adj+N’ for
nouns preceded by an adjective; (4) ‘Det+Adj+N’ for nouns preceded by both
50 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
(multiple adjectives are counted as one); (5) ‘Det+Adj’ for noun phrases with an
empty noun slot, which is grammatical in German.
Gender (four levels: masculine, feminine, neuter, NA = not available), number
(two levels: singular, plural), case (four levels: nominative, genitive, accusative,
dative) and animacy (only in pronouns, two levels: animate, inanimate) are
self-explanatory labels. The ‘NA’ label for gender was required for three cases:
(1) bare nouns in which gender marking is not possible; (2) plural nouns, as
German distinguishes the three genders only in the singular; (3) code switches
because words that are not part of the German lexicon typically do not have a
conventionalized grammatical gender.
We wanted our coding system to also differentiate all types of determiners that
can occur in German. This was put into practice by adding the category ‘deﬁ-
niteness’, which also helped to distinguish nouns that are preceded by a deﬁnite
determiner from nouns that are accompanied by an indeﬁnite article. Regardless of
the type of determiner, the syntactic structure was always coded as ‘Det(+Adj)+N’
to avoid duplicating information. The six types of determiners that occur in German
are (in alphabetical order):
deﬁnite: die, der, das etc. (the)
demonstrative: dieser, diese, dieses etc. (this, that)
indeﬁnite: ein, eine, eines etc. (a, an)
possessive: mein, ihr, unser etc. (my, her/their, our)
quantifying: alle, kein, keines etc. (all, no)
interrogative: welche, welches, wessen etc. (which, whose)
Error coding was a crucial part of our coding system. We were interested in cases
where speakers fall short of target-like gender marking. A complicating factor in
this type of analysis is the fact that grammatical gender in German is tightly
interwoven with the case and number system (see also Sect. 1.3.2). In some
instances, speakers make errors that cannot conclusively be coded as gender, case
or number errors. Take the following three examples:
20. *XYZ: das Milch schmeckt lecker.
21. *XYZ: dem Milch schmeckt lecker.
22. *XYZ: der Milch schmeckt lecker.
‘The milk is tasty.’
In all sentences, the correct form for the subject noun phrase would be ‘die Milch’,
indicating a nominative (or accusative) feminine form. In (20), it has been replaced
by a determiner which is ambiguous between a neuter singular nominative and
neuter singular accusative. We can clearly label this as a gender error because the
determiner ‘das’ can be nominative, just like the target form, and does not appear
anywhere in the feminine part of the gender paradigm. Therefore the error can only
come about by wrong gender assignment to the noun in question. In (21), the
determiner indicates a dative form from either the masculine or the neuter class. The
speaker producing this utterance gets both the gender and the case wrong. This type
4.5 Speciﬁc Annotation for Target Analyses: Gender Coding 51
of combined mistake would be labeled as both a gender error and a case error in our
coding system. In (22), the determiner is gender- and case-ambiguous: the speaker
might have selected the wrong case form, producing a dative or genitive instead of a
nominative form in the right gender, or might have erred on the side of gender,
replacing the feminine form by a masculine form in the nominative. We cannot
classify this type of mistake as a case or gender error. Number errors which cannot
be clearly identiﬁed were also classiﬁed as ambiguous errors.
A full line of gender coding according to our system would look like this in the
incorrect sentence (21) from above, repeated here for convenience:
23. *XYZ: dem Milch schmeckt lecker.
%fnp: ″dem Milch″ $type: FullNoun $cont: Det+N $gender: fem
$number: sg $case: NOM $def: def $GenderError $CaseError.
We have coded the noun phrase as a feminine form in the nominative although the
speaker produced a masculine or neuter form in the dative. This is because we are
primarily interested in the target forms that speakers ﬁnd most difﬁcult to get right
instead of analyzing which wrong forms are most frequently used instead of the
correct ones. It would have been possible to code both, but as we have seen in some
cases, it is impossible to classify an incorrect form, whereas correct forms are
usually apparent from the context.
To conclude, some remarks on the technical implementation of a gender coding
system are in order. To avoid having to type out all the coding tiers like the one in
(23), macros can be used. Most text processing software allows you to record
sequences of actions and play them back to repeat these actions automatically. The
macro consists of several lines of code that deﬁne exactly which actions are to be
performed and under which circumstances. For instance, a simple example is
recording (or writing) a macro that replaces every comma in a text by a semicolon
under the condition that the comma is followed by a space. Macros can also, for
instance, insert a coding tier containing predeﬁned information. Macros are typi-
cally accessed through the graphical user interface of whatever software in
employed. In our case, we created buttons that triggered the playback of a macro
that inserts an entire coding tier for, say, a full masculine noun in the nominative
gender. Other macros, accessible in the same way, take care of editing this line—for
instance, if the noun is preceded by an adjective, in a different case or incorrectly
marked. Given the complexity of the gender coding tier, the use of macros both
allows a signiﬁcant gain in working speed and helps avoid formal mistakes such as
typing errors.
Any type of text manipulation (such as adding, deleting, replacing) is possible
using macros although the speciﬁcs depend on the software and programming
language used. We recommend using a dedicated text editing software, such as
Notepad++, which is available for free. More importantly it does not share the
propensity of word processors such as Microsoft Word or OpenOfﬁce Writer to
automatically improve on text layout and structuring, such as replacing ″typewriter
quotation marks″ by “typographic quotation marks” or intelligently inserting spaces
52 4 Collecting and Analyzing Spontaneous Speech Data
when copying and pasting text. These automatisms are likely to interfere when
trying to code spontaneous speech. This means that you either have to deactivate
them (making them unavailable for other work done in the same software) or, much
easier, switch to software that does not do anything but edit text. Some software for
transcription and coding will not interface with an editor like Notepad++. In this
case, stand-alone macro software, which will record and play back actions in any
application, might best serve your needs.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Kormos, J., and M. Dénes. 2004. Exploring measures and perceptions of fluency in the speech of
second language learners. System 32(2): 145–164. doi:10.1016/j.system.2004.01.001.
Schmid, M.S., and H. Hopp. 2014. Comparing foreign accent in L1 attrition and L2 acquisition:
Range and rater effects. Language Testing 31(3): 367–388. doi:10.1177/0265532214526175.
Wray, A. 1999. Formulaic language in learners and native speakers. Language Teaching 32(4):
213–231. doi:10.1017/S0261444800014154.
Wray, A. 2002. Formulaic language and the lexicon. Cambridge: University Press.
References
Ellis, N.C. 2003. Constructions, chunking, and connectionism: The emergence of second language
structure. In The handbook of second language acquisition, ed. C.J. Doughty, and M.H. Long,
63–103. Malden: Blackwell.
Gullberg, M., and S.G. McCafferty. 2008. Introduction to gesture and SLA: Toward an integrated
approach. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 30(2): 133–146. doi:10.1017/
S0272263108080285.
Hammer, A., R. Goebel, J. Schwarzbach, T.F. Münte, and B.M. Jansma. 2007. When sex meets
syntactic gender on a neural basis during pronoun processing. Brain Research 1146: 185–198.
doi:10.1016/j.brainres.2006.06.110.
Hieke, A.E. 1981. A content-processing view of hesitation phenomena. Language and Speech 24:
147–160. doi:10.1177/002383098102400203.
Klein, W., and C. Perdue. 1989. The learner’s problem of arranging words. In The crosslinguistic
study of sentence processing, ed. B. MacWhinney, and E.A. Bates, 292–327. Cambridge:
University Press.
MacWhinney, B. 2014a. The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk—Electronic edition Part
1: The CHAT transcription format. http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/manuals/CHAT.pdf.
MacWhinney, B. 2014b. The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk—Electronic edition Part
2: The CLAN programs. http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/manuals/clan.pdf.
McCarthy, P.M., and S. Jarvis. 2010. MTLD, vocd-D, and HD-D: A validation study of
sophisticated approaches to lexical diversity assessment. Behavior Research Methods 42(2):
381–392.
Noyau, C., and U. Paprocka. 2000. La représentation de structures événementielles par les
apprenants: granularité et condensation. Roczniki Humanistyczne 48(5): 87–121.
Sanz Espinar, G. 1999. Le lexique des procès dans le récit en espagnol et en français langues
maternelles et langues étrangères (PhD dissertation). Université Paris X Nanterre and
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.
Shriberg, E.E. 2002. To “errrr” is human: Ecology and acoustics of speech disfluencies. Journal of
the International Phonetic Association 31(1): 153–169. doi:10.1017/S0025100301001128.
4.5 Speciﬁc Annotation for Target Analyses: Gender Coding 53
Chapter 5
Eye-Tracking and the Visual
World Paradigm
Sanne M. Berends, Susanne M. Brouwer and Simone A. Sprenger
Abstract This chapter will focus on the use of eye-tracking in the visual world
paradigm. This method can be employed to investigate a number of language
comprehension issues, and we will begin with a brief overview of the history of the
method and some of the applications. More centrally, we will discuss how it can be
used to assess the impact of cross-linguistic interference, proﬁciency levels, and age
of onset in L2 acquisition and L1 attrition, with an introduction to the issues that are
involved in designing a study using this technique. As a case in point, we present
and discuss the speciﬁc experiment employed within the multi-task, multi-language
and multi-lab study on which this book is based, with special attention to the issues
for analysis that arise when data from multiple systems must be combined.
Keywords Bilingualism  Grammatical gender  Eye-tracking  Second language
acquisition  First language attrition
5.1 Eye-Movements and Cognition
The world is ﬁlled with visual stimuli which are constantly competing for our
limited attentional resources. During visual exploration, we need to select and
attend to those things that contain relevant information and ignore others. What we
look at reveals a great deal about what is going on in our minds. Eye-tracking
technology exploits this close temporal link between gaze and cognition to study
the fast and highly automatic processes involved in language processing.
In 1974, Cooper was the ﬁrst to track the eye movements of participants as they
listened to short narratives while looking at a display of objects. He discovered that
participants’ eye gaze was drawn to objects mentioned in the narratives.
Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/978-3-319-
11529-0_5) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
© The Author(s) 2016
M.S. Schmid et al., Designing Research on Bilingual Development,
SpringerBriefs in Linguistics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-11529-0_5
55
Participants were, for example, more likely to look at a picture of a lion when
hearing the phrase ‘…when suddenly I noticed a hungry lion’ than at a picture of a
camera. Fixations were often initiated before the spoken word was even completed,
indicating that visual and language processing are closely time-locked.
5.1.1 Gaze and Language Processing
The last decade has brought the technology to measure eye movements within reach
for many research labs. Contemporary eye-trackers provide us with high-resolution
quantitative evidence of a listener’s visual and attentional processes (Duchowski
2002). However, while the ﬁeld of psycholinguistics has seen a surge in the
application of eye-tracking techniques to the study of reading since the 1980s (see,
e.g., Clifton et al. 2007 for an overview) it took more than two decades until
Tanenhaus et al. (1995) introduced its use in the ﬁeld of auditory language pro-
cessing. Since then, eye-trackers have frequently been used to study interactions
between vision, attention, and the processing of spoken language.
The experimental paradigm introduced by Cooper (1974) and Tanenhaus and
colleagues (1995) is known as the visual world paradigm (VWP, for an extensive
review, see Huettig et al. 2011). Participants listen to a spoken utterance and
simultaneously look at a visual scene containing various objects while their eye
movements are monitored. The spoken utterance is usually related to one or more
objects in the scene and the question is whether, and when, people look at these
objects. When the time to launch a saccade (an eye-movement to another location)
is taken into account, the point in time at which the listener’s gaze is directed
towards an object that has been named provides an excellent estimate of the time at
which the word has been recognized (Allopenna et al. 1998). Manipulating the
relationship between the objects and the linguistic input (e.g., making them harder
to distinguish due to similar speech sounds) allows researchers to test theories about
the way in which listeners access information in their mental lexicons.
This information can be deduced from the listeners’ gaze patterns across time. In
the VWP, the type of display can range from semi-realistic scenes (see Fig. 5.1 for
an example) to arrays of objects (see Fig. 5.2).
Some objects are mentioned in the spoken utterance and are the targets, while
others that overlap with the target to some degree function as competitors. Objects
that are completely unrelated serve as distractors. The proportion of ﬁxations on an
object, time-locked to the auditory presentation of the target word, is taken to be an
indication that (partial) lexical access has been achieved. For example, in a study by
Allopenna et al. (1998), participants were instructed to listen to sentences such as
‘Pick up the beaker; now put it below the diamond’. The names of some of the
objects in the visual display were phonologically similar to the name of the target
object. For example, the target object beaker was displayed with a competitor that
phonologically overlapped at onset position (beetle), with a competitor that pho-
nologically overlapped at rhyme position (speaker) and with a phonologically
56 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
unrelated distractor (carriage). Results demonstrated that listeners ﬁxated more on
objects that overlapped with the target signal phonologically (beetle, speaker) than
non-overlapping ones (carriage). Critically to their research question, listeners
looked more often at onset competitors (beetle) than rhyme competitors (speaker),
although both were ﬁxated often enough to suggest that they were partially acti-
vated. These ﬁndings show that information at onset position is more influential in
constraining lexical selection than information at ﬁnal position.
The original VWP has been modulated in various ways to accommodate the
demands of speciﬁc research questions. For example, McQueen and Viebahn
(2007) developed a version of the paradigm in which the objects in the visual
display are replaced by printed words. The beneﬁt of this variant is that the critical
stimuli do not need to be imageable, which makes it easier to design controlled sets
of materials. Other changes involve the visual array, which originally contained real
world objects which participants were instructed to manipulate (e.g., ‘Pick up the
beaker1
; now put it below the diamond’), but more recently has involved objects or
scenes presented on the screen with the simple instruction to look at the screen
while listening to a description (e.g., ‘The boy will eat the cake’), in order to
examine effects of sentence context.
Fig. 5.1 A semi-realistic scene from an eye-tracking study (Altmann and Kamide 1999, their
Fig. 1, p. 250, reprinted with kind permission from Elsevier)
1
Targets will be presented in italics throughout.
5.1 Eye-Movements and Cognition 57
Until recently, the VWP was mainly used in order to answer research questions
concerning monolingual language comprehension (for extensive overviews of the
investigated topics in monolingual research, see Altmann 2011; Huettig et al. 2011;
Tanenhaus and Trueswell 2006). Comparatively few VWP studies have been
dedicated to L2 acquisition research. One of the crucial questions in this area of
research is how lexical access occurs in bilinguals’ native and second languages and
to what extent the two languages interact during online processing. To the best of
our knowledge, Spivey and Marian (1999) were the ﬁrst to apply the VWP to L2
processing. In their study, Russian-English bilinguals were instructed to listen to
Russian sentences (e.g., ‘Poloji marku nije krestika’—‘Put the stamp below the
cross’). On the screen a stamp, a marker, and two unrelated distractor images were
displayed. In the participants’ L2, English, the object label marker is phonologi-
cally similar to the L1 target word marka, stamp. An analysis of the participants’
eye movements indicated a higher proportion of eye-movements towards the
between-language competitor marker than towards the unrelated distractors, indi-
cating that, even if they are listening to their L1, bilinguals simultaneously activate
lexical representations for words in both their L1 and their L2. The VWP can thus
successfully be applied to research questions concerning L2 processing.
Fig. 5.2 An array of objects from an eye-tracking study (Allopenna et al. 1998, their Fig. 3, p. 427
(detail), reprinted with kind permission from Elsevier)
58 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
5.1.2 Advantages and Challenges of the Method
A ﬁrst advantage of the VWP is that it is an online method, tapping into spoken
language comprehension as it occurs and revealing aspects of processing that lis-
teners are often completely unaware of. Second, in contrast to other (offline) methods,
the listeners are not asked to perform meta-linguistic judgments that might lead to an
over- or underestimation of their language abilities or encourage strategies making
use of explicit knowledge. Third, the data are with a high temporal resolution (on the
time-scale of milliseconds), providing precision in determining when responses to
spoken language begin to differ. Fourth, the topics of interest can be investigated
under natural, relatively realistic conditions in which listeners hear words, sentences,
or stories that are pragmatically relevant. A last advantage is that this technique can be
used for participants of most ages, since it does not require participants to read or
carry out complex tasks; it has been used very successfully with preschool children in
a number of studies (e.g., Lew-Williams and Fernald 2007).
A challenge lies in the fact that, as eye movements reflect the interplay of
language, vision and attention, using them to study linguistic processing per se
requires careful experimental design to control for possible confounds with visual
processing and attention allocation. For example some colors, such as red, attract
more attention than others and some positions are more frequently ﬁxated than
others, due to differences in visual processing and attention. In addition, the spoken
utterances always need to be related to the visual stimuli on the screen, thereby
limiting the stimulus material to either concrete, pictureable objects or relatively
short written words.
5.1.3 Eye-Tracking and Grammatical Processing
The VWP has been used to investigate language comprehension on various levels
of processing, ranging from discourse and sentence level to lexical processing (e.g.,
phonological processing and bilingual word recognition) as well as their interaction.
For example, Dahan et al. (2000) used the VWP to investigate the influence of the
semantic and syntactic context on spoken word recognition. Speciﬁcally, they asked
whether prenominal gender cues influence the speed of spoken word recognition. In
their study, French native speakers were presented with displays consisting of
objects with names that shared the same phonological onset but differed in gram-
matical gender (e.g., bouteilleFEM, bottle; boutonMASC, button). When nouns were
preceded by a gender-ambiguous plural article (e.g., ‘cliquez sur lesAMB boutons’,
‘click on the buttons’) listeners were equally likely to ﬁxate the target and the
phonological competitor (e.g., bouteilles, bottles) directly following the presenta-
tion of the ﬁrst few phonemes. However, when a gender-marked article preceded
the noun (e.g., ‘cliquez sur leMASC bouton’, ‘click on the button’), listeners more
rapidly ﬁxated the correct target and the gender-marked article eliminated the
5.1 Eye-Movements and Cognition 59
interference of the phonological competitor. These ﬁndings demonstrate that gender
cues earlier in the sentence can minimize the set of possible candidates for a target
noun and therefore facilitate language processing.
The same effect has since been found for article-noun combinations whose
onsets did not overlap (Paris et al. 2006 for German; Lew-Williams and Fernald
2007 for Spanish, Loerts et al. 2013 for Dutch and Hopp 2013 for German).
Lew-Williams and Fernald (2007) showed that the gender anticipation effect can
even be found in preschoolers.
A question for L2 acquisition is whether L2 learners are, in principle, able to
exploit gender marking in a similar way. This is an important question in the
context of the debate on ultimate attainment among L2 learners. Of particular
interest is the question of which conditions lead to nativelike processing and what
role AoA and the presence and/or similarity of the gender system in the L1 play for
the facilitation effect in L2. Thus far, results have been mixed, even when the same
L2 is examined. Lew-Williams and Fernald (2010) and Grüter et al. (2012) did not
ﬁnd gender anticipation or facilitation effects for intermediate and advanced English
learners of Spanish, despite the fact that Spanish has quite a transparent gender
system, suggesting that a non-gender L1 precludes the acquisition of native-like L2
gender processing routines. In contrast, Dussias et al. (2013b) did ﬁnd gender
facilitation effects in highly proﬁcient English speakers of Spanish. In fact, their
results suggest that the presence of a gender system in the L1 may interfere with
gender facilitation in the L2: A population of Italian L2 learners of Spanish that was
also tested only exploited the gender cue on feminine articles and not on masculine
articles. This may be explained by the fact that a greater percentage of the mas-
culine items had opaque gender, whereas in general gender in Spanish is trans-
parent. Another factor might have been the difference between the deﬁnite article
systems of the two languages. Whereas Italian has two masculine deﬁnite articles
(il and lo) and one feminine deﬁnite article (la), Spanish only has two deﬁnite
articles (el for masculine and la for feminine).
Hopp (2013) investigated native English learners of German, which has a
non-transparent gender system (see Chap. 1), and found anticipatory effects, sug-
gesting that native-like performance on gender can be found without a gender
system being present in the L1 and in the absence of phonological or form regu-
larities of gender agreement, like those characteristic of Spanish. Loerts et al. (2013)
investigated gender processing in Slavic learners of Dutch, a language which is also
non-transparent. Their ﬁndings, like those of Dussias et al. (2013b), suggest that a
different expression of gender in the L1 might modulate the degree to which gender
marking can be used in L2 processing, since Polish learners of Dutch, who encode
gender in the L1 but not on articles, showed no effect of gender facilitation.
To conclude, the factors that govern the extent to which L2 learners can acquire
gender anticipation and facilitation effects during spoken language comprehension
are not yet clear. While the studies that have been conducted so far suggest that it is
indeed possible for L2 learners to make use of gender agreement for these purposes
under certain circumstances, it is as yet unclear in which way the interaction of a
range of predictors can affect the outcome. These predictors include characteristics
60 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
of both the ﬁrst and the second language, the level of proﬁciency in the second
language, the AoA of the L2 learners, and potentially others.
In this context, it is also interesting whether such anticipation and facilitation
effects are stable in a native language under conditions of language attrition. To our
knowledge, no previous studies exist which address gender anticipation and
facilitation in L1 attriters. The ﬁndings reviewed above suggest that there may be
complex interactions between the bilingual’s languages that determine whether cues
are used to facilitate the access of upcoming information. In order to gain further
insight into how gender processing is affected by bilingual development, and to
elucidate the impact of the predictors named above, it is important not to conﬁne the
investigation to the later-learned L2. By comparing L2 learners with L1 attriters
(individuals who have become highly proﬁcient or dominant in the L2 after an
extended period of immersion), the impact of some of these predictors—for
example, proﬁciency and dominance—can be disentangled from others—for
example AoA and the order of acquisition (see Chap. 1 for a more complete
discussion). We propose that deeper insight into multilingual grammatical pro-
cessing can only be gained on the basis of comparisons among participants that
vary along all of these dimensions. Such investigations should thus include native
controls, L2 speakers and L1 attriters from different linguistic backgrounds across a
range of proﬁciencies and AoAs. In the following sections we will discuss the
considerations that went into constructing a study on gender processing designed to
achieve this goal. However, most of the considerations are sufﬁciently general to
apply to other studies using this paradigm.
5.2 General Design Issues
In this section we present a number of considerations which should be carefully
taken into account when designing a VWP experiment and discuss some of the
strategies that have been used to deal with each of them.
5.2.1 Fixating Visual Objects: Important Potential
Confounding Factors
The types of visual displays that have been used in VWP experiments vary
depending on the research question. In general, two different types of displays can
be distinguished. The ﬁrst type consists of arrays of line drawings (black and white
or colored), or of pictures of real objects. The second display type is made up of
semi-realistic scenes, which consist either of drawings of pictures presented on a
computer screen or of real objects laid out on a workspace (see Figs. 5.1 and 5.2).
The main difference between the two paradigms is that semi-realistic scenes give a
more natural context in which the impact of world knowledge can be tested
5.1 Eye-Movements and Cognition 61
(Henderson and Ferreira 2004), whereas in the paradigm with arrays of objects the
influence of world contextual knowledge is reduced to a minimum, providing the
opportunity to isolate the activation of conceptual and lexical information associ-
ated with individual words stored in the mental lexicon (Huettig et al. 2011).
Picture selection is a crucial step in developing a VWP experiment. The objects
to be used in a visual display can be selected from picture databases such as the one
created by Snodgrass and Vanderwart (1980). This database comprises 260 black
and white line drawings which have been normed for name agreement, image
agreement, familiarity and visual complexity. Since these factors might potentially
influence the eye gaze, they should be taken into account when selecting the visual
stimuli, making pre-normed stimuli an excellent choice (note, however, that factors
such as familiarity may vary depending on the culture—an important consideration
for investigations of multilingual development!).
Pictures of real objects are more detailed than black and white drawings, and can
therefore enhance recognition and facilitate naming agreement. However, visual
complexity differences between pictures of real objects are more difﬁcult to control:
Some pictures will be more easily recognized than others (Dussias et al. 2013a),
which encourages earlier ﬁxations when the objects are named. As this visual
complexity bias might obscure any potential anticipation effect, we suggest using
line drawings from the Snodgrass and Vandewart (1980) picture database in order
to keep the variance in the complexity of the pictures as low as possible. As those
pictures have only been normed for English naming agreement, studies investi-
gating other languages should pilot the pictures to be used on native speakers of the
languages represented in the experimental population, in order to ensure that each
picture stimulus will indeed elicit the intended nouns.
The Snodgrass and Vandewart pictures are copyright-protected, and in order to
use them in any study or for publications it is necessary to obtain a license. Other
databases of images are available (for a list of suggestions see http://www.cogsci.nl/
stimulus-sets). Whatever images are selected for any given study, it is of vital
importance that the researcher should consider and explore any potential copyright
issues, since infringement of such rights can have serious consequences (and also
make it difﬁcult if not impossible to publish the results from the study).
Equally important is the consideration of how the spoken utterances that par-
ticipants will hear may constrain the visual characteristics of the objects being
employed. For example, in a study which investigates the use of gender in antic-
ipation, it is important to reduce effects of sentence context that might also lead to
anticipation because the target noun is semantically the most likely object to ﬁt a
given sentence frame. Many VWP paradigm studies therefore opt for minimally
constraining contexts and present only noun phrases consisting solely of the
determiner and the noun (e.g., de appel, ‘the apple’). However, this practice is
problematic for two reasons. First, since launching an eye-movement takes ca.
200 ms (Matin et al. 1993), and since determiners are considerably shorter than that
in many languages, such phrases may not allow participants enough time to
translate their anticipation of the upcoming noun into an actual saccade. Second, it
has been proposed that L2 learners acquire frequent combinations such as
62 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
determiner plus noun as chunks, and that they therefore might show a preference for
the target, but for reasons that are unrelated to gender as a structural property of the
noun. It is therefore preferable to extend the noun phrase by an intervening
adjective (‘the ADJ apple’), where the structure of the language allows this.
This raises another problematic question, namely what type of adjective should
be used: Evaluative words, such as ‘pretty’, ‘nice’ etc. may confuse participants
who do not agree with the assessment—or where the description may better apply
to other objects. Depicting adjectives that refer to more objective properties of the
target (‘large’, ‘heavy’ etc., see Paris et al. 2006) may enhance or reduce the
noticeability of the target (which then also has to be larger or heavier than the other
items in the array) and thus confound the anticipation effect.
An alternative solution is suggested by Loerts et al. (2013), who investigated
whether Dutch native speakers use gender marking to predict the correct referent.
The visual display used in this study contained a target, a competitor and two
distractors, all of them represented as colored line drawings. The competitor was
either the same or a different gender and/or color as the target (while the distractors
were always represented in different colors and had different genders), and the
intervening adjective named the color. For example, one such array depicted a red
apple (common, target), a red cake (common, competitor), a yellow lock (neuter,
distractor) and a blue book (neuter, distractor). In this case, when the participant
heard the phrase ‘click on theCOM red…’, both target and competitor were equally
likely to be ﬁxated until the onset of the noun (apple vs. cake), since both were
potential referents of the noun phrase. In an array where the two red objects did not
share their gender and the competitor was, for example, a red book, participants
were able to differentiate them at an earlier stage, despite the fact that both were
represented in the same color.
Results showed that the color of the pictures interfered with the gender antici-
pation effect to some extent: Participants’ ﬁxations to targets were initiated later
when the target was brown as compared to other colors (red, yellow, blue, green).
This ﬁnding indicates that some colors are more salient than others and therefore
attract more attention. Loerts et al.’s (2013) ﬁndings revealed that the effect of the
color manipulation was stronger than the gender facilitation effect in those visual
displays in which the target and competitor shared color.
While inserting color adjectives between determiner and noun is therefore
probably the best way of constructing noun phrases that allow the participant
enough time to use gender agreement information encoded in the determiner, the
color interference may override the gender facilitation effect. This, however, can be
eliminated by presenting all objects within the same VW display in the same color
(while making sure that color is counterbalanced across conditions).
Another aspect of the design that needs attention concerns the number of objects
and the layout of the visual displays. Both of these factors can also influence the
time it takes to ﬁxate the correct object. A ﬁrst factor to consider is the number of
object positions on the visual display (Ferreira et al. 2013, see Figs. 5.3 and 5.4).
Ferreira and colleagues studied the influence of the complexity of the visual display
on the interpretation of garden-path sentences like ‘Put the book on the chair in the
5.2 General Design Issues 63
Fig. 5.3 The visual display used by Ferreira et al. (2013), their Fig. 1 (reprinted with kind
permission from Elsevier)
Fig. 5.4 The visual display used by Ferreira et al. (2013), their Fig. 4 (reprinted with kind
permission from Elsevier)
64 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
bucket.’ Here, the prepositional phrase on the chair is temporarily ambiguous
because it can either be interpreted as being the goal (the location where the book is
to be placed) or the modiﬁer (the location from which it is to be removed, in order
to be placed in the bucket). In the unambiguous equivalent ‘Put the book that’s on
the chair in the bucket’, the same prepositional phrase on the chair can only be
interpreted as the modiﬁer. In a visual context with a book on a chair, a single book,
an empty chair and an empty bucket participants were less likely to ﬁxate the empty
chair even in an unambiguous sentence. This can be interpreted as suggesting that
when two books are present in the display, the listener is more likely to assume that
the chair serves as a location, identifying the appropriate book, i.e. that the modiﬁer
interpretation of the prepositional phrase is favored.
However, when the single book is replaced by an unrelated object, garden path
sentences typically elicit more gazes towards the incorrect goal, that is, the empty
chair (Tanenhaus et al. 1995) as compared to the unambiguous counterpart. Ferreira
and colleagues also used instructions which did or did not contain garden-paths. In
addition, the complexity of the visual displays was manipulated by presenting
participants with 4 (Fig. 5.3) or 12 (Fig. 5.4) objects. The ﬁndings indicated that it is
more difﬁcult to construct an online interpretation when the visual display is more
complex (i.e. contains more objects). Looks to the target (i.e., the book on the chair)
increased much later, which suggests that the visual search takes longer in complex
visual contexts. Furthermore, the classical garden-path effect disappeared due to the
delay. This suggests that it is undesirable to use an unnecessarily complex display.
In order to ensure comparable results between eye tracking studies with similar
research questions, it is therefore advisable to use the same number of objects in the
visual display as other studies in the ﬁeld.
Participants also have clear preferences for particular screen positions,
depending on the reading direction in their native language. Readers whose script
runs from left-to-right and from top-to-bottom will have the tendency to ﬁrst direct
their gaze to the upper left corner of a visual display. To control for this bias, the
positions of the objects on the visual display should always be counterbalanced so
that each condition (target, competitor, distractors) is presented equally often in
each position and that each individual object is displayed in all positions and all
conditions. To avoid repetitions of the same array for the same participant, the
various uses of each object can be distributed across different lists (so that, for
example, in one list, apple is used as target, in another as competitor, and so on); at
the level of the entire experiment, the effects of position should then be balanced.
5.2.2 Presenting Auditory Stimuli: Important Potential
Confounding Factors
In addition to the effects of the visual display, eye movements can also be influ-
enced by inadvertent properties of the auditory stimuli. When selecting the critical
5.2 General Design Issues 65
words for an experiment on gender processing, several important factors must be
controlled in order to avoid confounds in the experiment. One of these factors is
phonological overlap between the target object and the other objects presented on
the same visual display. Recall the experiment by Allopenna et al. (1998) described
earlier, in which participants were found to direct their eye gaze more towards the
phonological onset competitor than to the rhyme and unrelated competitor.
However, participants also ﬁxated the rhyme competitor more than the unrelated
competitor. Studies investigating anticipatory gazes should therefore avoid pho-
nological overlap at either onset or rhyme as much as possible.
Furthermore, word frequency can also modulate lexical access speed and
therefore impact on ﬁxation time. For example, presenting a comparatively
low-frequency auditory target like bench alongside a high-frequency phonological
competitor (e.g., bed), a low-frequency phonological competitor (e.g., bell) and an
unrelated distractor elicits more ﬁxations to the high- than to the low-frequency
competitor (Dahan et al. 2001). Importantly, this effect is not limited to cases with
phonological competition. Dahan and colleagues also found frequency effects in
eye movements toward targets without phonologically related competitors. Eye
gaze latencies towards targets with high frequency names (e.g., horse) were faster
than for targets with low frequency names (e.g., horn). It is therefore extremely
important that the lexical frequency of all items in an array be stringently con-
trolled. For studies of L2 acquisition, it may furthermore be advisable to select only
items of comparatively high frequency, since this will reduce the chance of par-
ticipants being unfamiliar with certain words or their gender.2
When carrying out an L2 acquisition study, cross-linguistic gender overlap of
the target noun can also potentially affect the results. Weber and Paris (2004)
presented French learners of L2 German with German instructions to click on a
target object, and the target noun was preceded by a gender-marked article.
Participants saw visual displays with a target and a competitor, as well as two
distractors. The target and the competitor always had phonologically overlapping
onsets not only in the language of the experiment (German, e.g. Perle ‘pearl’ vs.
Perücke ‘wig’) but also in their French translation equivalents (perle, perruque). In
addition, whereas the gender of the target was always shared between the German
noun and the French equivalent (e.g., dieFEM Perle, laFEM perle), the competitor’s
gender was manipulated in such a way that it either had the same (e.g., dieFEM
Perücke, laFEM perruque) or a different gender (e.g., dieFEM Kanone, leMASC canon)
across both languages. In the latter condition, where the competitor had the same
gender as the target in the language used (German), earlier ﬁxations on the target
could only be ascribed to the influence of the participants’ ﬁrst language, French.
Such a control condition is thus necessary to ensure that anticipatory effects are,
indeed, based on L2 gender only. The influence of crosslinguistic competition was
conﬁrmed by the ﬁnding that Weber and Paris’ French learners of L2 German only
2
Irrespective of the frequency of the chosen items, it is highly advisable to ensure that all par-
ticipants know all of the words, see Sect. 5.3.3.
66 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
showed an effect of competition when the gender of the competitor matched that of
the target in both languages. The result suggests that participants were unable to
eliminate the L1 gender while listening to instructions in the L2. Neglecting to
include this manipulation in the design would therefore have produced misleading
results.
5.2.3 Controlling Timing
One of the advantages of the VWP is that it allows tracking eye movements over
time, to see how and when the auditory stimuli direct attention toward elements of
the visual display. The ﬁne-grained temporal resolution of eye-movements makes
accurate timing of the recordings of these stimuli essential across multiple trials.
This is a more challenging task for experiments using spoken language than for
designs that rely on written language (see also Chap. 6). We recommend a pro-
cedure in which all stimuli (which for the purpose of the gender anticipation task
take the form of sentences such as ‘click on DET ADJ NOUN’ or ‘where is
DET ADJ NOUN’) have the same timing across relevant regions. To achieve this
goal, we used the following procedure: Each sentence was recorded three to ﬁve
times by a female native speaker who spoke a standard version of the target lan-
guage and had considerable elocution training. From these recordings, the best
exemplar for each stimulus sentence was selected, based on normal speaking rate
and naturalistic prosody (stress, rhythm and intonation).
For the purposes of the gender experiment, there are three regions preceding the
noun in the stimulus sentence: verb plus preposition (preamble), determiner
(moment at which relevant information is presented), and adjective (intervening
region). We established the average duration of all of these regions and subse-
quently adjusted them to this average length in every one of the recordings, so that
the onset of the noun always occurred at exactly the same moment in each sentence.
The purpose of this adjustment was to avoid a larger facilitation effect in those
sentences that were pronounced at a slower rate and thus reduce between-item jitter
in timing as much as possible.
A second important issue to keep in mind in relation to timing is when the
auditory and the visual stimuli should be presented relative to each other. In the
VWP, the presentation of the visual display often starts at or shortly before the
onset of the utterance. Previous work has shown that the amount of preview time
can affect the likelihood of ﬁxations to particular objects (Huettig and McQueen
2007; Ferreira et al. 2013). Ferreira and colleagues manipulated the amount of
preview time in their study on the interpretation of garden path sentences discussed
above. They found the classical garden-path effect when the visual display con-
tained four objects and was presented three seconds before the instructions initiated.
However, the effect disappeared when the visual and auditory information were
5.2 General Design Issues 67
presented simultaneously (i.e., preview time was reduced to zero). The authors
suggest that preview time may allow participants to build better expectations of
what may be referred to in the upcoming utterance. The primary goal of the preview
time should be to allow the participants to construct a spatial representation of the
VW array, as longer times may lead to strategies and expectations that influence
the results. The ability to predict upcoming information might also increase over the
course of an experiment as experience in the task grows. We therefore recommend
as short a preview time as is consistent with the participants being able to carry out
the task. In our case we chose to give no preview time, the most extreme option, as
both our visual display and our instructions were comparatively simple.
5.2.4 Summary of General Considerations
In sum, we recommend a research design that takes into account the following
factors:
• properties of the lexical items: word frequency (based on large speech/written
corpora), phonological overlap (at onset or at rhyme) between targets, com-
petitors and unrelated items, controlled gender overlap between items in the
target language and in the L1 of L2 speakers where applicable (in our case
Polish and Russian)
• properties of the picture stimuli: reliability of naming, effects of color, size and
complexity
• properties of the auditory stimuli: equal duration of the relevant regions pre-
ceding the noun (e.g. imperative/preposition, determiner, adjective) for all
recorded stimuli, achieved through adjusting the length of the recorded
segments
• properties of the visual world scene and presentation: locations of the target and
competitor objects counterbalanced across the regions of the scene which are
employed, a preview time that is consistent with the participants being able to
carry out the task.
These design principles are quite general and apply to both the Dutch and the
German version of the experiment we present below. However, the actual imple-
mentation of the design differed slightly with respect to the target nouns, carrier
sentences and counterbalancing results due to differences in gender and case sys-
tems between Dutch and German, a problem that will occur in any multi-language
study. In the following, we therefore provide descriptions of how the general design
was adjusted for the Dutch and German stimuli, while maintaining enough simi-
larity for comparison across languages.
68 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
5.3 The Present Experiment
5.3.1 Rationale of the Experiment
In our study, we were interested in the effects of the characteristics of both a
bilinguals’ languages on gender processing. In addition we were interested in how
the salience of the gender system affects L2 acquisition and L1 attrition: While both
Dutch and German have opaque gender systems, which are generally not predict-
able on the basis of morphological or phonological characteristics of the word,
gender is more salient in German due to the interaction with case marking (see
Chap. 1 for a full discussion). We therefore compared adult learners of Dutch and
German with various types of L1, L1 attriters and predominantly monolingual
speakers of these languages. Our goal was to assess the effects of language dom-
inance, order of acquisition, proﬁciency and AoA on the use of gender agreement to
facilitate information retrieval during online processing. In order to measure the
listeners’ response to grammatical gender information in Dutch and German noun
phrases, we manipulated gender overlap between the objects displayed, as in the
studies cited above.
In each trial participants saw four line-drawings on a screen and heard a sentence
directing their attention to one of these objects (e.g., ‘Klik op hetNEUT groene
bladNEUT’, ‘Click on the green leaf’). Crucially, in this sentence the gender-marked
determiner must agree with the gender of the noun; if listeners are able to anticipate
the correct noun based on the gender information provided by the determiner, this
demonstrates a quick and automatic use of gender information in comprehension.
Two types of display were used, one where there was no gender competitor (see
Fig. 5.5, Panel A for an example from the Dutch experiment) and one that contained
two potential target objects, the actual target and a gender competitor (see Fig. 5.5,
Panel B). The difference between the two types of displays represents the
within-subject factor gender competition.
If listeners make use of the gender information encoded in the deﬁnite deter-
miner to direct their gaze to the target as quickly as possible, they should settle on
the leaf sooner in panel A than in panel B, since there is no competition from a
gender-congruent competitor (in panel B, eye represents such a competitor). Such a
difference in the visual selection of the target object can be taken as evidence for
active use of gender information in comprehension. In order to get reliable esti-
mates of the time it takes to select the visual targets, the effects have to be inde-
pendent from the speciﬁc materials used. Therefore, the visual and the auditory
stimuli, as well as the visual displays, had to be selected and created with care.
5.3 The Present Experiment 69
5.3.2 Materials
48 highly frequent Dutch nouns and 48 highly frequent German nouns referring to
pictureable objects were selected as targets. While the Dutch nouns were evenly
spread over the two genders encoded in the language (e.g., common: de emmer
‘bucket’, 24 items; neuter: het potlood ‘pencil’, 24 items), the German nouns were
limited to two of the three genders (e.g., masculine: der Hut ‘hat’, 24 items and neuter:
das Kleid ‘dress’, 24 items). No feminine German nouns were included, as the fem-
inine singular deﬁnite article die is ambiguous with the plural deﬁnite article for all
genders. The Dutch nouns were selected based on the Spoken Dutch Corpus’ esti-
mates of frequency of occurrence (Oostdijk 2000) and the German nouns were
selected from a basic vocabulary list for German learners (Oehler and Gerretsen
1973). This was the ﬁrst within-subject factor in the experiment: grammatical gender.
Two noun phrase constructions were created: (1) deﬁnite determiner-adjective-
noun (e.g., het gele hek ‘the yellow fence’; der blaue Hut ‘the blue hat’), and
(2) indeﬁnite determiner-adjective-noun combinations (e.g., een geel hek ‘a yellow
fence’; ein gelbes Kleid ‘a yellow dress’). This was the within-subject factor gender
structure. In the deﬁnite noun phrase condition, gender information is marked on
the deﬁnite determiner in both languages (e.g., decom vs. hetneu; dermas vs. dasneu).
In the indeﬁnite noun phrase condition gender is carried by the adjective (e.g.,
gelecom vs. geelneu; blauermasc vs. blauesneu). The adjectives used were yellow, blue,
green, and brown. The Dutch noun phrase combinations always followed the
sentence frame ‘Klik op…’ (Click on…). However, it seemed best to present the
German nouns in the nominative case form, since this is considered to be the default
form and is the more frequent one, to make the experimental sentences more
Fig. 5.5 Example of two visual stimulus arrays in the gender competition task for the spoken
Dutch stimulus ‘Klik op hetneu groene bladneu’ (Click on the green leaf). In panel A (left) the
objects other than the target provide no gender competition as they are all common gender,
whereas in panel B (right) one of the objects (i.e., hetneu oogneu, ‘the eye’) is a gender competitor
for the target
70 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
comparable cross-linguistically. Therefore, the German noun phrases were
embedded in the Wh-question ‘Wo ist…’ (Where is…), since the German equiv-
alent of ‘Click on’ would require the accusative form. The distribution of gender
across the objects on the experimental trials was either 1:3 (i.e., the gender of the
target versus the gender of the unrelated competitor and both distractors) or 2:2 (i.e.,
the gender of the target and the related competitor versus the gender of the
distractors).
The Dutch sentences were recorded by a female native speaker of Dutch living
in the Netherlands and the German sentences were recorded by a female native
speaker of German living in Germany. Both speakers had professional experience
as radio presenter or voice over. Recordings (16 bits, 44.1 kHz) were made in a
sound-attenuating double-walled booth. The duration of the preambles, the deter-
miner and the adjective were measured and averaged across all sentences in
PRAAT (Boersma and Weenink 2012). All auditory stimuli were then manipulated
in Adobe Audition© 3.0 to adjust the duration of the three regions from the onset of
the gender cue to the following values: determiner (Dutch: 858 ms; German:
445 ms), adjective (Dutch: 974 ms; German: 660 ms) and noun (Dutch: 1351 ms;
German: 1060 ms). The stimuli were also equalized to the same rms level of 65 dB
and modiﬁed to fade in and out by means of PRAAT.
In addition, for each language 12 pictures of naturally red-colored objects were
selected and used to construct 24 ﬁller displays. In contrast to the experimental
displays, the ﬁller displays contained a target, two objects with the same gram-
matical gender and only one of a different gender. They were included to prevent
participants from strategically looking for the odd one out, since the experimental
target item was always different in gender from at least two and sometimes three of
the other objects. In the ﬁller displays the target had two same gender competitors
and the distractor was the odd one out. Finally, six Dutch and ﬁve German practice
displays were constructed in different colors.
The words used in the two language experiments were paired with 48 pictures
selected from the Snodgrass and Vanderwart (1980) standardized picture set of
black and white line drawings. Color was then added to the line drawings. The
possible word-picture pairs were constrained, as they must plausibly appear in
either yellow, blue, green or brown in the real world (in addition to the 12 naturally
red ﬁllers) and the pictures were colored accordingly (e.g., sun was colored yellow;
apple was colored green). A naming pretest, in which participants were asked to
name individually presented pictures on a computer screen, conﬁrmed that the
pictures were highly recognizable and elicited the correct target noun. Objects that
did not consistently elicit the expected noun were revised or excluded. All pictures
are included in the online supplementary material.
With these 48 pictures, 96 array combinations were created by positioning the
objects in two-by-two grids (see Fig. 5.5); there were two versions of each array
which varied as to competitor (gender matched or not); these were counterbalanced
across lists to prevent repetition effects. The four objects included a target, a
competitor and two distractors. All four objects always had the same color so that
color did not add any information for identiﬁcation of the target; nor would one of
5.3 The Present Experiment 71
the objects be more noticeable due to its color. The objects in the display were
positioned equidistant from the center of the screen. The competitor’s gender was
either congruent or incongruent with respect to the target object (e.g., Dutch
vliegtuigneu ‘airplane’ vs. lepelcom ‘spoon’ for the target potloodneu ‘pencil’;
German Bootneu ‘boat’ vs. Löffelmasc ‘spoon’ for the target object Hausneu ‘house’).
The genders of the distractors were always different from that of the target. In order
to exclude the possibility of phonological competition, the onset of the target item
never overlapped with the onset of any of the other object names in the Dutch
experiment. However, in the German experiment, we could not avoid phonological
overlap completely (16 items in list 1 and 18 in list 2). The lists of array combi-
nations of targets, gender congruent and incongruent competitors and distractors are
included in the online supplementary material.
For each language two pseudo-randomized item lists were created in which
targets were counterbalanced to appear either with a gender-congruent or a
gender-incongruent competitor, and each participant was assigned to one list. On
each list, the positions of target objects on the screen were counterbalanced. That is,
the target appeared with equal probability in the four quadrants of the screen over
the course of an experimental run. There was no repetition of colors on subsequent
trials. Both lists were divided into two blocks, so that per block each picture
appeared once as target, once as competitor and twice as distractor. One block
contained the auditory stimuli in which the determiner was deﬁnite, and one had the
indeﬁnite constructions.
To sum up, each participant saw 96 target arrays and 24 ﬁller arrays, in a
factorial design varying
• grammatical gender (two levels: common vs. neuter for Dutch and masculine
vs. neuter for German),
• structure (two levels: deﬁnite vs., indeﬁnite), and
• gender competition (two levels: competitor vs. no competitor)
combining to 9 conditions, each with 12 exemplars per participant.
5.3.3 Procedure
Before beginning the experiment proper, participants were presented with a series
of two pictures on a computer screen and simultaneously heard a bare noun cor-
responding to one of the pictures presented. Their task was to click on the corre-
sponding picture on the screen. This task ensured that all participants were familiar
with the names of all objects. Participants heard only the bare noun in order to avoid
any priming of the article.
For the eye-tracking experiment, participants were seated in front of a computer
screen while their eye movements were monitored by an eye-tracker. The presen-
tation of the auditory and the visual stimuli was controlled with E-Prime (Schneider
et al. 2002), which could be used at all labs where data was collected. Prior to the
72 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
experiment a 9-point calibration procedure was performed; by directing the par-
ticipant’s gaze to speciﬁc regions of the screen, the eye-tracker is able to check
whether the data being gathered corresponds to the actual location which the par-
ticipant should be ﬁxating to establish accuracy. Participants were then instructed to
use the computer mouse to click on the object in the visual display representing the
target item they heard in the sentence. They were asked to respond as fast and as
accurately as possible. Each trial started with a central ﬁxation cross, displayed for
500 ms in order to avoid baseline effects, followed by a visual display with four
objects. The spoken sentence started simultaneously with the onset of the display.
When participants clicked on an object, they initiated the next trial. Both reaction
times and eye gaze data were recorded.
Each participant saw two stimulus blocks, with either deﬁnite determiners or
indeﬁnite determiners used in the auditory descriptions. The order of blocks was
counterbalanced over participants. Prior to each block, participants performed a
practice session of two or three trials to become acquainted with the (change in)
task and procedure. Each block lasted approximately 10 min and participants were
given a short break between the two blocks. The total duration of this testing
session was approximately 30 min.
5.4 Data Recording and Analysis
5.4.1 Eye-Tracking Devices
As will usually be the case in studies aiming to collect data on different languages
and from different populations, and therefore at different testing sites, the systems
available for the experiment differed between locations and labs (see Chap. 3). For
this experiment, data were obtained from SMI, SR Research and Tobii eye-trackers,
each of which generates different formats of output, as will be discussed in more
detail below. In addition, the physical set-up experienced by the participants dif-
fered from head-mounted through desktop-mounted to built-in eye-tracking sys-
tems. A full list of the variants and the populations which were tested on each set-up
is given in Table 5.1.
Some technical differences notwithstanding, all of these systems are designed to
answer the simple question “when does a participant look where?” That is, they
provide us with x-y-coordinates of the participants’ gaze, measured at a high
temporal resolution (60–500 Hz, see Table 5.1), time-locked to the spoken stimuli.
All systems analyze the reflection of infrared light from the eye in real time in order
to determine the location of the pupil as well as the corneal reflection. The com-
bination of these parameters allows the software to determine the participants’
direction of gaze. Even though each set-up differed with respect to the position of
the infrared emitter and the camera (and therefore with respect to its sensitivity for
particular forms of movement artifacts), each of them has reliably been applied in
5.3 The Present Experiment 73
experimental settings in which timing information is essential. Given our
within-subject design, and given our relatively large regions of interest, possible
differences between eye-trackers were not expected to affect the results.
All eye-trackers were linked to and controlled by the same experiment software
using somewhat different interfaces (E-Prime software, Psychology Software Tools,
Pittsburgh, PA). For example, communication between E-prime and the Tobii
eye-trackers was established by a set of software extensions that link the eye-tracker
server with E-prime. The E-prime extensions for the Tobii package can be obtained
from the Psychology Software Tools, Inc website (http://www.pstnet.com/
downloads/eet/EETVersion6.pdf). The procedure built in a check for accuracy
which helped ensure that the data from different set-ups was comparable; each
recording session started with a calibration procedure that mapped the signal of the
eye-tracker to the dimensions of the computer screen and the visual ﬁeld of the
participant.
5.4.2 Dependent and Independent Measures
For our project, blinks and saccades were discarded, as the focus was on ﬁxations.
Speciﬁcally, we were interested in the time course along which the listeners’ gaze
was directed at various objects in the visual scene. To operationalize this, we
created four different visual regions of interest by splitting the screen into four
quadrants, containing the four objects. Subsequently, we computed the average
probability with which each object/region of interest was ﬁxated within a given
time bin (bin size of 50 ms), across a time span beginning 200 ms after the gender
cue was heard. This starting time was chosen because of estimates that it takes
approximately 200 ms to program and launch a saccadic eye movement (e.g., Matin
et al. 1993).
Table 5.1 Sampling rates of the various eye-trackers used in our project
Eye-tracker Location Sampling
rate (Hz)
Set-up Participant group
Eyelink II Chicago 250 Head-mounted Dutch attriters
Toronto 250 Head-mounted Dutch and German attriters
Eyelink 1000 Hamburg 250 Remote German learners and natives
Leiden 500 Remote Dutch learners and natives
London (ON) 500 Desktop-mount Dutch attriters
SMI Berlin 60 Remote German learners and natives
Tobii T60 New York 60 Remote German attriters
Tobii T120 Groningen 120 Remote Dutch learners and natives
74 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
In the analysis, objects were classiﬁed as targets, competitors and distractors. For
the stimuli with gender marking on the determiner, we examined gaze proportions
in the time window until noun onset to see if ﬁxations reflected gender anticipation
when no competitor was present.
5.4.3 Combining Data from Different Eye-Tracking Systems
Eye-trackers provide information about gaze location across time. Typically, this
information is coded in terms of x- and y-coordinates, with x and y being the pixel
dimensions of the experiment screen (where [0, 0] typically identiﬁes the upper left
corner). Time is logged based on the eye-tracker’s internal clock time. The accuracy
with which the gaze location is determined depends on the eye-tracker’s sampling
rate. In visual world experiments, sampling rates typically vary between 60 (one
measurement every 16.667 ms) and 500 Hz. (one measurement every 2 ms). The
sampling rates of the different eye-trackers used in our project are listed in
Table 5.1. Given an average ﬁxation duration of approximately 330 ms in scene
viewing, in combination with relatively large regions of interest (i.e., screen
quadrants) and time bins of 50 ms, all these systems provide ample accuracy for the
study of spoken word recognition.
In order to be interpretable, the eye-tracking output must contain information in
addition to gaze location and time. First, there must be a way to relate the
eye-tracker’s clock time to the timing of the experiment (e.g., onset of presentation
of the picture and/or the spoken stimulus). Second, each sample must be coded for
the experimental item, the trial, and the levels of one or more independent variables.
Finally, each set of samples must specify the participant, and, if applicable,
experimental list.
The output formats that have been chosen by the various manufacturers differ
profoundly in the way in which this information is coded. Eye link data are in
European Data Format (EDF), which is a standard binary ﬁle format for medical
time series data. EDF ﬁles start with a header that contains general experiment
information, as well as information about the calibration procedure. The header is
followed by data records, of which there are various types. For our analyses, we
relied on messages (i.e., a timestamp and some pre-speciﬁed string that is generated
by the experiment software at certain events) and samples (i.e., a timestamp, fol-
lowed by x- and y-coordinates of one eye and a measure of pupil dilation). The
messages were used to mark important events in the time course of a trial (e.g.,
sound onset) and to provide information about the levels of the independent vari-
ables (per trial). We combined all three types of information by means of a
custom-made script that we applied to the ASCII-converted ﬁles, which re-arranged
the information for easier statistical analysis. That is, each sample was coded for
time, experimental list, participant, trial, item, levels of the independent variables,
5.4 Data Recording and Analysis 75
and time of sound onset.3
The data were then stored in a data table format with one
row per sample and one variable per column.
Tobii gaze data are already in data table format when exported from the Tobii
eye-tracker server. Each row represents a sample taken by the eye-tracker. In
addition to timestamp information in milliseconds, the eye-tracker provides infor-
mation about the x- and y-positions of both eyes, a measure of pupil dilation, and a
number of parameters related to the validity of the measurement. A detailed
overview of these variables can be found in the Tobii manual (http://www.tobii.
com/Global/Analysis/Downloads/User_Manuals_and_Guides/Tobii_T60_T120_Eye
Tracker_UserManual.pdf). The sample information was automatically complemented
with the relevant trial coding (i.e., the independent variables, see the section on EDF
output).Importantly,the onset oftheauditoryinstructionandvisualdisplaywasmarked
by means of an additional variable, making it possible to align the eye-tracking mea-
surements with the timing of the spoken and visual stimuli. The tutorial section of the
E-prime extensions for the Tobii package includes instructions and examples of how to
use inline scripts in E-prime to create such integrated gaze data ﬁles.
The data that were acquired by means of an SMI eye-tracker were in SMI’s IDF
(iView Data File) format. Similar to the EDF ﬁles, IDF ﬁles are binary ﬁles that
consist of a header, followed by data records. Like EDF ﬁles, IDF ﬁles must be
converted to ASCII for further processing. The actual data in IDF ﬁles can be
considered a hybrid of the EDF and Tobii formats, as the data records are arranged
in the form of a data table (one sample per row, marked as SMP), interspersed with
messages (e.g., a timestamp in milliseconds, followed by the marker MSG and the
string start recording). With respect to the variables, the output is similar to that of
Tobii. That is, each sample includes a timestamp, x- and y-positions of both eyes, a
measure of pupil dilation, and a number of parameters related to the validity of the
measurement. In addition, trial number is included. Independent measure coding
was added post hoc, by merging the corresponding E-prime output with the sample
data.
Once the original data format had been standardized for all types of equipment
and output ﬁles, further data processing proceeded along the following lines. First,
we veriﬁed that each data ﬁle was in data table format, coded for experiment,
experimental list, experimental block, participant, participant-related independent
variables (i.e., ﬁrst language, presence of gender in L1, age of arrival), trial, trial
timing, item, and experimentally controlled independent variables (related either to
our hypotheses or to counterbalancing). A further issue concerns the coding of
missing data across the different ﬁle types. This is important, as each time a par-
ticipant blinks (or, more accurately, each time the system loses track of the eye), the
eye-tracker will report missing data. The amount of data lost to either blinks or a
3
Recall that our audio ﬁles were standardized with respect to the length of the fragment that
precedes the target.
76 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
poor signal is an important indicator of the overall validity of the acquired data and
should therefore be subject to analysis by itself.
In order to combine data from various sources, we downsampled the gaze data to
the lowest sampling rate available for each analysis. For example, if German par-
ticipants were included, the lowest sampling rate was 60 Hz or one sample every
16.7 ms. Data from other eye-trackers was converted to the same rate. This step was
primarily necessary for making average images of the data, since the larger bins
described below for the analysis are essentially a still more stringent downsampling.
The data was further minimized by excluding information that was not used in the
analyses; for example, only ﬁxations were selected and saccades and blinks were
excluded. Moreover, critical items were selected and practice items and ﬁllers were
eliminated.
Third, for all trials we aligned the sound onset times to zero to establish a
common time frame for all trials. Average gaze locations were aggregated per
participant per trial in 50 ms time bins. Each gaze location with respect to region of
interest was categorized (i.e., either one of the four quadrants of the screen or the
center of the screen4
), and with respect to the type of object (i.e., target object,
competitor object or one of two distractor objects).
Fourth, probability of ﬁxation was computed for each type of object across time,
operationalized as the percentage of gaze per participant per object type per time
Fig. 5.6 Probabilities of
ﬁxation for the target object,
the competitor object and the
distractor objects (divided by
two) across the time course of
the noun (Dahan et al. 2000,
their Fig. 5, p. 475, reprinted
with kind permission from
Elsevier)
4
Since each trial was preceded by a ﬁxation cross, participants tended to ﬁxate the center of the
screen in the beginning of a trial.
5.4 Data Recording and Analysis 77
bin. The averages of these percentages across participants were used to plot the data
(see Fig. 5.6 for an example from Dahan et al. 2000). The y-axis represents the
proportions of ﬁxations to the different types of objects and the x-axis the time in
milliseconds. The values of the y-axis range from zero to one as the data is pro-
portional. The zero point of the x-axis represents the onset of the noun. The vertical
line in the plot corresponds to the offset of the noun.
5.4.4 Statistical Approaches
In VWP studies, participants’ ﬁxations on speciﬁc regions of interest are measured
across the time course of an experimental trial. These regions of interest are deﬁned
on the basis of the different objects on the visual display. For example, in the case
of a 4-object display, the monitor might be divided into a grid of four quadrants. On
each trial each quadrant is classiﬁed as target, competitor or distractor. The typical
question for the analyses is whether different regions of interest signiﬁcantly differ
in their likelihoods and timing of being looked at during different experimental
conditions.
Currently, there is no consensus on the best way to inferentially test the observed
differences. The difﬁculty with eye-tracking data is that ﬁxations in any given
region and at any given time are categorical (i.e. 0 or 1), whereas the independent
measure, i.e. time, is continuous. A variety of analyses have been used to examine
differences in proportion ﬁxation (see special issue 59 of the Journal of Memory
and Language, 2008). Traditional models compare proportional ﬁxation to different
objects over time using ANOVA or t-tests. The problem with such models is that
they violate the underlying statistical assumptions of these tests (Barr 2008).
Recently, researchers have therefore proposed more sophisticated statistical tech-
niques such as multi-level logistic regression (Barr 2008), growth curve analyses
(Mirman et al. 2008) and generalized additive models (Wood 2006).
Suggestions for Further Reading
Dussias, P.E., J.V. Kroff, and C. Gerfen. 2013a. Visual world eye-tracking. In Research methods
in second language psycholinguistics, ed. J. Jegerski, and B. van Patten, 93–126. New York:
Routledge.
Ferreira, F., M. Tanenhaus. 2008. Language-vision interaction [Special issue]. Journal of Memory
and Language, 57(4).
Huettig, F., J. Rommers, and A.S. Meyer. 2011a. Using the visual world paradigm to study
language processing: A review and critical evaluation. Acta Psychologica 137: 151–171.
78 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
References
Allopenna, P.D., J.S. Magnuson, and M.K. Tanenhaus. 1998. Tracking the time course of spoken
word recognition using eye movements: Evidence for continuous mapping models. Journal of
Memory and Language 38: 419–439.
Altmann, G.T.M. 2011. The mediation of eye movements by spoken language. In The oxford
handbook of eye movements, ed. S.P. Liversedge, I.D. Gilchrist, and S. Everling, 979–1004.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Altmann, G.T.M., and Y. Kamide. 1999. Incremental interpretation at verbs: Restricting the
domain of subsequent reference. Cognition 73: 247–264.
Barr, D.J. 2008. Analyzing ‘visual world’ eyetracking data using multilevel logistic regression.
Journal of Memory and Language 59: 457–474.
Boersma, P., D. Weenink. 2012. Praat: Doing phonetics by computer (Version 5.3.08) [Computer
software]. http://www.praat.org/.
Clifton, C., A. Staub, and K. Rayner. 2007. Eye movements in reading words and sentences. In
Eye movements: A window on mind and brain, ed. R.P.G. van Gompel, M.H. Fischer, W.S.
Murray, and R.L. Hill, 341–372. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Cooper, R.M. 1974. The control of eye ﬁxation by the meaning of spoken language: A new
methodology for the real-time investigation of speech perception, memory, and language
processing. Cognitive Psychology 6: 84–107.
Dahan, D., J.S. Magnuson, and M.K. Tanenhaus. 2001. Time course of frequency effects in spoken
word recognition: Evidence from eye movements. Cognitive Psychology 42: 317–367.
Dahan, D., D. Swingley, M.K. Tanenhaus, and J.S. Magnuson. 2000. Linguistic gender and
spoken-word recognition in French. Journal of Memory and Language 42: 465–480.
Duchowski, A.T. 2002. A breadth-ﬁrst survey of eye-tracking applications. Behavior Research
Methods, Instruments, & Computers 34(4): 455–470.
Dussias, P.E., J.V. Kroff, and C. Gerfen. 2013a. Visual world eye-tracking. In Research methods
in second language psycholinguistics, ed. J. Jegerski, and B. VanPatten, 93–126. New York:
Routledge.
Dussias, P.E., J.R. Valdés Kroff, R.E. Guzzardo Tamargo, and C. Gerfen. 2013b. When gender
and looking go hand in hand: Grammatical gender processing in L2 Spanish. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition 35: 353–387.
Ferreira, F., A. Foucart, and P.E. Engelhardt. 2013. Language processing in the visual world:
Effects of preview, visual complexity, and prediction. Journal of Memory and Language, 69
(3), 165−182.
Grüter, T., C. Lew-Williams, and A. Fernald. 2012. Grammatical gender in L2: A production or a
real-time processing problem? Second Language Research 28: 191–215.
Henderson, J.M., and F. Ferreira. 2004. Scene perception for psycholinguists. In The interface of
language, vision, and action, ed. J.M. Henderson, and F. Ferreira, 1–58. New York:
Psychology Press.
Hopp, H. 2013. Grammatical gender in adult L2 acquisition: Relations between lexical and
syntactic variability. Second Language Research 29(1): 33–56.
Huettig, F., and J.M. McQueen. 2007. The tug of war between phonological, semantic and shape
information in language-mediated visual search. Journal of Memory and Language 57(4):
460–482.
Huettig, F., J. Rommers, and A.S. Meyer. 2011b. Using the visual world paradigm to study
language processing: A review and critical evaluation. Acta Psychologica 137: 151–171.
Lew-Williams, C., and A. Fernald. 2007. Young children learning Spanish make rapid use of
grammatical gender in spoken word recognition. Psychological Science 33: 193–198.
Lew-Williams, C., and A. Fernald. 2010. Real-time processing of gender-marked articles by native
and non-native Spanish speakers. Journal of Memory and Language 63: 447–464.
Loerts, H., M. Wieling, and M.S. Schmid. 2013. Neuter is not common in Dutch: Eye movements
reveal asymmetrical gender processing. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 42(6): 551–570.
References 79
Matin, E., K.C. Shao, and K.R. Boff. 1993. Saccadic overhead: Information-processing time with
and without saccades. Perception and Psychophysics 53: 372–380.
Mirman, D., J.A. Dixon, and J.S. Magnuson. 2008. Statistical and computational models of the
visual world paradigm: Growth curves and individual differences. Journal of Memory and
Language 59: 475–494.
McQueen, J.M., and M.C. Viebahn. 2007. Tracking recognition of spoken words by tracking looks
to printed words. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 60: 661–671.
Oehler, H., and O.S. Gerretsen. 1973. Duitse woordenschat—Alfabetische basisvocabulaire met
systematische uitbreiding. Groningen: Wolters Noordhoff.
Oostdijk, N. 2000. The spoken Dutch corpus. Overview and ﬁrst evaluation. In Gavralidou, M., G.
Carayannis, S. Markantonatou, S. Piperidis, G. Stainhaouer (eds.), Proceedings of the second
international conference on language resources and evaluation, 887−893. Paris: ELRA.
Paris, G., A. Weber, and M.W. Crocker. 2006. German morphosyntactic gender and lexical
access. Poster presented at the 12th annual conference on architectures and mechanisms for
language processing (AMLaP 2006), Nijmegen, Netherlands.
Schneider, W., A. Eschman, and A. Zuccolotto. 2002. E-Prime user’s guide. Pittsburgh:
Psychology Software Tools Inc.
Snodgrass, J.G., and M. Vanderwart. 1980. A standardized set of 260 pictures: Norms for name
agreement, image agreement, familiarity and visual complexity. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Human Learning and Memory 6: 174–215.
Spivey, M.J., and V. Marian. 1999. Cross talk between native and second languages: Partial
activation of an irrelevant lexicon. Psychological Science 10: 281–284.
Tanenhaus, M.K., and J.C. Trueswell. 2006. Eye movements and spoken language comprehen-
sion. In Handbook of psycholinguistics, 2nd ed, ed. M. Traxler, and M. Gernsbacher, 86–900.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Tanenhaus, M.K., M.J. Spivey-Knowlton, K.M. Eberhard, and J.C. Sedivy. 1995. Integration of
visual and linguistic information in spoken language comprehension. Science 268: 1632–1634.
Weber, A., G. Paris. 2004. The origin of the linguistic gender effect in spoken-word recognition:
Evidence from non-native listening. Poster presented at the 26th Annual Meeting of the
Cognitive Science Society (CogSci 2004), Chicago, IL.
Wood, S. 2006. Generalized additive models: An introduction with R. Boca Raton: Chapman &
Hall/CRC Press.
80 5 Eye-Tracking and the Visual World Paradigm
Chapter 6
EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
Nienke Meulman, Bregtje J. Seton, Laurie A. Stowe
and Monika S. Schmid
Abstract Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) have become a standard method in
many areas of cognitive research, including second-language research, over the last
decade and a half (Van Hell and Tokowicz 2010). ERPs can provide evidence
which is central to the controversy on the similarity or difference of ﬁrst and
second-language processing. However, they provide a challenge which can be
daunting for a large-scale multi-lab study, because there are so many technical
details which vary from lab to lab, making it difﬁcult to acquire data that is fully
comparable across testing sites. In this chapter we will discuss a number of aspects
of ERP measurement, focusing partly on experimental designs and partly on the
way in which data from different languages and different labs can successfully be
combined. These aspects will require somewhat more detail than the techniques
treated in previous chapters.
Keywords Bilingualism  Grammatical gender  Second language acquisition 
First language attrition  EEG  ERP  N400  P600
6.1 ERPs and the Study of On-line Language Processing
6.1.1 Introduction to the Method
ERPs are used in language research to measure the online neural activity underlying
language processing which unfolds while a comprehender reads or listens to lin-
guistic material. They not only shed light on how language is processed in the brain,
but can also reveal possible differences in underlying processing strategies between
different groups of language users (e.g., monolinguals and bilinguals, or natives,
Electronic supplementary material The online version of this chapter (doi:10.1007/978-3-
319-11529-0_6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
© The Author(s) 2016
M.S. Schmid et al., Designing Research on Bilingual Development,
SpringerBriefs in Linguistics, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-11529-0_6
81
learners and attriters), thus offering the possibility of making qualitative inferences
about the nature of these differences. This makes ERPs a powerful tool for studying
online language processing in bilinguals.
ERPs are based on electroencephalography (EEG), a procedure that records
real-time electrical activity in the brain through electrodes placed on the
scalp. Since the EEG signal reflects the continuous, ongoing neural activity related
to a multitude of brain processes which take place simultaneously (most of them
unrelated to language), the brain response to a particular stimulus cannot be studied
using the raw signal. This is different from the techniques discussed in the previous
chapters: For example, measurements of eye-movements are strongly related to the
task at hand, and each trial can start from a neutral baseline, where the gaze is
relatively still and ﬁxated on a central cross. The brain, however, is never ‘at rest’ in
this manner, so the neural activity triggered by a certain linguistic stimulus has to be
isolated from all other ongoing activity. In order to do this, many trials of the same
type have to be recorded, all of which are time-locked to a certain kind of “event”—
the presentation of a linguistic stimulus, for example, or the moment at which an
ungrammaticality becomes evident. Through comparisons of the brain signal across
these trials, brain activity which is unrelated in time to the event and thus occurs
only sporadically and at different times throughout the stimulus will decrease or
disappear, while the relevant event-related potential (i.e., the neural activity trig-
gered by the type of stimulus used in the experiment) remains.
The temporal resolution of EEG measurements is very high (in the order of
milliseconds), making it possible to accurately measure when a certain computa-
tional operation takes place in the brain.1
There is one very obvious drawback to
this method: Due to the fact that many stimuli of the same type have to be used, it is
virtually impossible to obscure the purpose of a study by means of even larger
numbers of distractors or ﬁllers. This means that at the end of an EEG study, most
participants will know which linguistic structure is being investigated.
ERP waveforms consist of a series of positive and negative voltage deflections.
Predictable patterns of such brain activity typically encountered upon presentation
of a certain type of stimulus (for example, a lexical or grammatical violation) are
referred to as ERP ‘components’ (Luck and Kappenman 2012). Generally the
names of ERP components are based on some combination of (1) their functional
role (what type of stimulus modulates them, for example the Mismatch Negativity
or Error Related Negativity), (2) timing (e.g., N400 which peaks around 400 ms
after presentation of a word), (3) polarity (negative- or positive-going waveform as
in N400, which is negative) and (4) scalp distribution (the region on the head where
the component is encountered in the overall signal, e.g., Left Anterior Negativity).
It is important to note that the scalp distribution does not directly indicate the
location of the source of the neural activity; a left anterior negativity does not
1
A full, in-depth discussion of the ERP technique is beyond the scope of this text; the reader is
referred to Luck (2014) for a comprehensive introduction. We conﬁne the discussion here to the
points that are relevant for our purpose.
82 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
necessarily originate in the left anterior cortex, such as Broca’s area. Scalp distri-
bution is primarily important when it is argued that two effects which are otherwise
comparable with respect to timing and polarity come from non-identical sources,
because they have different scalp distributions within the same group of participants
(e.g., Roehm et al. 2005). Researchers in the ﬁeld of language processing in general
and bilingualism in particular will be most interested in those components that are
associated with language (see review by Swaab et al. 2012). The three best-known
components of interest to linguistic research are the N400, the P600 and the Left
Anterior Negativity (LAN).
The N400 is a negative peak in the signal which occurs approximately 400 ms
post stimulus (see Fig. 6.1) with a posterior (back of the head) and bilateral (on both
sides of the head) distribution. It has been shown to be modulated by semantic
factors (Kutas and Hillyard 1980), with a larger amplitude when a word is
encountered that is perceived to be unexpected within the context of the utterance.
The left-hand panel in Fig. 6.1 illustrates modulations of the N400 in a compara-
tively naturalistic utterance, such as ‘The cat will eat the food I left on the porch’
(solid line), as opposed to an unexpected construction, e.g., ‘The cat will bake the
food I left on the porch’ (dotted line), where the unexpected word bake modulates
the ERP component. (Italics will be used throughout this chapter to indicate the
target word, i.e., the word to which the response is time-locked in the ERP signal.)
The amplitude of the N400 has been shown to depend on the expectancy of the
upcoming word in a sentence: Words that are semantically unexpected elicit larger
amplitude N400 responses than words that are more expected given the preceding
sentence and discourse context (Kutas et al. 1984), as well as words that are more
Fig. 6.1 Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) elicited by linguistically anomalous words
encountered during sentence processing. Negative voltage is plotted up, and waveforms reflect
measurement at electrode site Cz, which is located on the midline on the center of the scalp. Left
hand panel: Semantically anomalous words (‘The cat will bake the food …’) elicit an N400
component with increased amplitude relative to the N400 elicited by the non-anomalous words
(‘The cat will eat the food …’). Right-hand panel: Syntactically anomalous words (‘The cat will
eating the food …’) elicit a late positive shift (P600), relative to the ERPs elicited by the
non-anomalous words. (Figures were adapted from Osterhout and Nicol (1999), their Fig. 1, p. 297
(detail) and are reprinted with kind permission from Taylor and Francis)
6.1 ERPs and the Study of On-line Language Processing 83
closely related to the previous context (Federmeier and Kutas 1999) and higher
frequency words (Van Petten and Kutas 1990). Therefore, the N400 is likely to
reflect semantic processes of lexical access and/or integration (Brouwer et al. 2012;
Friederici et al. 1993; Holcomb and Neville 1991).
The second ERP component that has been found reliably in relation to language
processing is the P600. It differs from the N400 in polarity, timing and (to a lesser
extent) scalp distribution and is found in response to the processing of morpho-
logical and other syntactic information (Molinaro et al. 2011; Osterhout and
Holcomb 1992). It is a late positivity (usually detectable in the 500–800 ms time
window), broadly distributed over posterior sites. This component occurs in
response to morphological and syntactic errors, such as violations of subject-verb
agreement and case inflections (see Molinaro et al. 2011, for an overview), and with
garden pathing in ambiguous sentences (Osterhout et al. 1994). The waveform in
the right-hand panel of Fig. 6.1 shows the response to sentences of the type ‘The cat
will eating the food I left on the porch’. It is often believed that the P600 reflects a
controlled mechanism associated with reanalysis and repair which is triggered when
incoming words cannot be incorporated into the syntactic structure that was initially
built (Friederici et al. 1996). However, there is considerable debate over the precise
functional interpretation of the P600 (Brouwer et al. 2012; Coulson et al. 1998;
Kaan et al. 2000). Although it is important to be aware of this debate for the
purpose of second-language research, the P600 can be used as a sign of native-like
processing in highly proﬁcient populations of learners without necessarily sub-
scribing to any given interpretation.
A last component which has sometimes (but less reliably) been found in
response to violations of morphosyntactic rules is the left anterior negativity (LAN,
see Fig. 6.2). The LAN is typically observed at around 300–500 ms after a violation
has been detected and often occurs in conjunction with the P600 in a biphasic
pattern (Friederici 1995; Molinaro et al. 2011). This component has also been
associated with increased working memory load in wh-questions (Coulson et al.
1998; King and Kutas 1995; Kluender and Kutas 1993). While the N400 and the
P600 have been found reliably and consistently in response to semantic and mor-
phosyntactic violations, respectively, across a range of languages and native and
non-native populations, the LAN is more elusive, and it remains unclear what
exactly determines whether or not it will occur in any given investigation (for an
overview, see Molinaro et al. 2011).
These are the three most commonly found ERP components linked to language
processing.
Knowledge about these components generated by studies with native speakers can
inform us about how best to design an experiment dealing with bilinguals. Luck
(2005) suggests focusing a given experiment on only one or two components, pref-
erably well-established, large and reliable ones, and using well-studied experimental
manipulations to avoid ambiguities in interpreting ERP effects. This is particularly
important in L2 research, where so many factors can affect the outcome. For this
reason, we are here focusing on components which are relevant to sentence pro-
cessing. There are several others, for example the Mismatch Negativity (MMN) which
84 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
has been successfully used to investigate the development of phonological processing
in L1 (e.g., Kuhl 2010) and L2 (e.g., Peltola et al. 2003), as well as the focus positivity
(Dimitrova et al. 2012) and the Closure Positive Shift (Steinhauer et al. 1999) which
reflect aspects of prosodic processing. Likewise, ERPs in response to pictures which
are to be named in a designated language show a negativity which is thought to be
related to the inhibition of the undesired language (Misra et al. 2012).
ERPs have become one of the most frequently used methods in neurocognitive
research because they reflect the ﬁne-grained on-line response to various inputs on
the timescale in which linguistic processing takes place—in contrast to other
neuroimaging methods, such as fMRI, which has excellent spatial but poor tem-
poral resolution. For research on language processing, ERPs have the advantage
that the participant does not have to carry out any task except normal compre-
hension and are therefore assumed to reflect naturalistic processing better than, for
example, grammaticality judgment tasks, which involve metalinguistic skills. This
allows the researcher to ask detailed questions about the ways in which populations
differ from each other and in which they are the same.
At the same time ERPs rely on many responses of the same kind, which means
that a large number of trials is necessary in order to obtain a clean signal from each
individual participant. Similarly, individuals may differ substantially from each
other in terms of the size of the response and even the scalp distribution of a given
response, and a large sample size is therefore necessary to accurately represent any
Fig. 6.2 A left anterior
negativity (LAN) associated
with gender mismatch in
German. F3 is an electrode
located to the left of midline
and over frontal areas of the
scalp. Figure adapted from
Gunter et al. (2000), their
Fig. 1, p. 561 (detail) and
reprinted with kind
permission from MIT Press
6.1 ERPs and the Study of On-line Language Processing 85
given population. For both of these reasons, data collection using this method
represents a considerable investment in terms of time, for the participant but par-
ticularly for the researcher. For bilingualism research, this is further exacerbated by
the number of other factors which may affect the results (see Chap. 2). In con-
clusion, the method is not for the faint of heart, but we are convinced that, if the
experiment is properly set up, the potential gains outweigh the difﬁculties.
6.1.2 Monolingual and Bilingual Processing
The ERP components sketched above were initially discovered in monolingual
native populations. More recently, they have also been extensively studied among
second-language learners and bilinguals. In this context, it has been found that even
relatively low-proﬁciency speakers quickly show N400 responses to semantically
unexpected items in a manner similar to processing among monolingual natives
(McLaughlin et al. 2004), although sometimes with a smaller amplitude or delay in
onset (Ojima et al. 2005; Weber-Fox and Neville 2001). In contrast, factors such as
proﬁciency, age of onset of L2 acquisition and cross-linguistic similarities between
L1 and L2 substantially modulate P600 and LAN effects in morphosyntactic pro-
cessing (Foucart and Frenck-Mestre 2011; Meulman et al. 2014; Sabourin and
Stowe 2008; Steinhauer et al. 2009; Weber-Fox and Neville 1996). As with the
N400, differences between L2 learners and natives for these components may be
visible in a decreased amplitude and/or delayed onset of the component. However,
there are also cases where even advanced L2 learners show completely different
ERP components from those observed among natives in response to a particular
structure or violation, or where the processing of the violation does not differ at all
from that of the target-like structure.
For example, some studies have found an N400 instead of a P600 in early
learners for some grammatical violations (McLaughlin et al. 2010; Weber and
Lavric 2008). It has been suggested that this may be the outcome of a lexical
(instead of a syntactic) strategy during processing, due to limited overall proﬁciency
(Clahsen and Felser 2006; McLaughlin et al. 2010; Steinhauer et al. 2009).
The LAN, which is elusive even among native speakers, has rarely been found in
late L2 populations; the few exceptions involve either early learners (Weber-Fox
and Neville 1996) or regular constructions which are very similar between the L1
and the L2 involved (Rossi et al. 2006).
Generally speaking, the differences between L2 learners and natives are larger at
lower L2 proﬁciency levels, for learners with a later age of onset of acquisition, and
for L2 learners whose ﬁrst language is typologically further removed from the target
language with respect to the construction under investigation. Whether
second-language speakers, in particular those who begin acquiring the L2 after
puberty, can show fully native-like neural responses to linguistic input, and in
particular whether this ability is achievable across the board for all grammatical
structures, is a topic that is still under debate (e.g., Steinhauer et al. 2009).
86 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
6.1.3 ERPs and Grammatical Gender
The multi-lab project discussed throughout this volume focused on gender concord,
which is among the most intensively studied topics in the debate on bilingual
processing. For this grammatical structure, the differences between L1 and L2 are
particularly multi-faceted. They include differences at the level of the presence or
absence of grammatical gender, the speciﬁcs of the grammatical agreement rules
(on which sentence constituents is gender concord marked?) and differences at the
level of lexical classiﬁcation (a particular item may be masculine in one language
but feminine in another). For these reasons, gender concord appears to be one of the
most difﬁcult features to acquire for second-language learners.
Studies of native populations have very reliably found a P600 response to
violations of gender agreement across a range of languages (Spanish: Barber and
Carreiras 2005; Italian: Molinaro et al. 2008; French: Foucart 2008; German:
Gunter et al. 2000; Dutch: Hagoort and Brown 1999; Loerts et al. 2013; Sabourin
and Stowe 2008; Van Berkum et al. 1999). In some cases, a LAN has also been
observed (German: Gunter et al. 2000; Spanish: Barber and Carreiras 2005) but not
in others (Dutch: Sabourin and Stowe 2008; French: Frenck-Mestre et al. 2009).
L2 learners show an even more complex pattern. Previous ﬁndings suggest that
the LAN is unlikely to be found in late learners; unfortunately there are to date no
studies of gender concord among early L2 learners. Even the P600, which is
frequently reported even for late learners with respect to other grammatical features,
is highly variable. Some learners show N400 effects in response to article-noun
combinations which violate gender agreement, for example when the gender of the
target noun is not the same as in their native language or when the agreement
context is relatively infrequent (Foucart and Frenck-Mestre 2012). In other studies,
a P600 is found, but this component may diminish or even disappear when the type
of agreement changes from adjacent elements to longer distance agreement or when
the agreement rules differ between L1 and L2 (Foucart and Frenck-Mestre 2011;
Frenck-Mestre et al. 2009; Meulman et al. 2014; Sabourin and Stowe 2008).
There are two striking gaps in the literature. First, there are very few investi-
gations of the impact of age of acquisition on L2 processing (the only exception
being Weber-Fox and Neville 1996); most studies involve learners whose L2
acquisition started post-puberty, in their teens or twenties. Second, to date inves-
tigations of grammatical processing among bilinguals in general and gender con-
cord processing in particular have focused exclusively on the L2 of these speakers,
and on the issue of the attainability of native-like processing. The question of
whether extended periods of L2 use, language dominance reversal and L1 attrition
can also impact on ﬁrst language processing as measured by the EEG, and whether
the brain responses can move away from those observed in monolingual natives and
towards the patterns typical for L2 learners, has not previously been addressed by
means of the ERP technique.
6.1 ERPs and the Study of On-line Language Processing 87
6.2 Designing an ERP Experiment
6.2.1 General Design Issues
There is a wealth of existing knowledge about ERP components which demon-
strates that ERPs can be affected by a range of linguistic factors (characteristics of
the stimulus). It is therefore vital to control for these factors in designing an
experiment in order to exclude effects that are not due to the target manipulation
(e.g., a violation of agreement on a particular morphosyntactic feature) but to some
other aspect of the material. Among the factors that are important in this context are
plausibility, frequency, complexity, sentence length and linear position of the
violation as well as other visual or auditory characteristics of the stimulus. Each of
these factors may quite conceivably have a different or stronger effect for popula-
tions which are not monolingual.
It is a well-established ﬁnding that the plausibility of a sentence modiﬁes the
amplitude of the N400 as it affects the ease with which new words can be integrated
into the existing sentence frame. It is therefore important to ensure that all sentences
are rated as more or less equally plausible by native speakers. For bilingual pop-
ulations the ratings should ideally also be conducted by members of the target L2
population (note that individual speakers who have given such plausibility ratings
in the design phase should not be included as participants in the actual experiment):
Sentence interpretation is based on real world knowledge (Hagoort et al. 2004) and
this may be affected by cultural differences. Secondly, word frequency also affects
the amplitude of the N400, as mentioned above. Very infrequent words can fur-
thermore elicit a late positive component which occurs in the same time window as
the P600, and, of course, higher proportions of infrequent words increase the
likelihood that the L2 populations may not know some of these items. It is therefore
important that the frequency of all target items be assessed, preferably on the basis
of a large database such as CELEX (Baayen et al. 1995) or the English and Dutch
Lexicon projects (Balota et al. 2007; Keuleers et al. 2010). The frequency assess-
ment is of particular importance for the target words within the phrase where the
violation occurs. However, as familiarity may affect the overall plausibility or
parseability of a sentence, the frequency of the other items should also be kept at the
same (high) level. Again, investigations of bilinguals present an additional chal-
lenge, since it is necessary to ensure with reasonable certainty that all lexical items
are familiar to the participant population. This can be done by means of a familiarity
pretest (to be conducted together with the plausibility assessment).
Sentence length and complexity affect slow waves2
(Phillips et al. 2005; Van
Petten and Kutas 1991), as well as the P600 (Kaan et al. 2000). Again, these factors
are particularly important in the context of second-language learners, who might
2
Slow waves, also called DC potentials, begin to emerge at least 500 ms after stimulus onset and
often last for several seconds. They usually appear as negative deflections and have a less distinct
peak.
88 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
encounter more difﬁculty processing complex and longer sentences than mono-
lingual natives, and in this manner the effects which are being studied can be
obscured or diminished. This might lead to differences between the experimental
and the control population which could then be falsely ascribed to the target
grammatical feature (i.e., a false positive). Lastly, it has been suggested that
responses to items in sentence-ﬁnal position may differ from those to items placed
elsewhere in the sentence (Osterhout 1997), and so this position should be avoided
for the target violation where possible.
Keeping all of these potentially confounding factors constant across the exper-
iment is no small challenge. A powerful approach to isolating effects that are caused
by a single factor is to calculate difference waves between sentence pairs that, other
than for the target manipulation, are identical to each other in terms of their pho-
nological, syntactic and semantic-pragmatic features. In other words, the same
sentence is presented twice, once in a grammatically correct form, and once with the
target violation (as illustrated in the example in Fig. 6.1). The EEG signals in
response to both versions can then be subtracted from each other, resulting in a
difference wave (Fig. 6.3) which contains the components affected by the manip-
ulation of the stimulus type without the distraction of all the other electrophysio-
logical changes elicited by both types of stimuli.
While this type of within-item design allows the researcher to zoom in on the
variance elicited by the violation, it is problematic for other reasons: ERPs are
sensitive to repetition, including the repetition of a sentence context (Besson et al.
1992). The same participant should therefore never be exposed to both the gram-
matical and the ungrammatical version of the same sentence. The solution is to
create such correct/incorrect pairs for all stimuli but distribute them across different
Fig. 6.3 Difference wave ‘The cats will eating …’ minus ‘The cats will eat …’; this demonstrates
the time and size of the difference more clearly than the overlaid waveforms and is a useful extra
visualization of the data. Figure adapted from Osterhout and Nicol (1999), their Fig. 7, p. 303
(detail) and reprinted with kind permission from Taylor & Francis
6.2 Designing an ERP Experiment 89
lists, so that each participant will only encounter either the grammatical or the
ungrammatical version.
Given the complexity of all of the factors named above, it is advisable that the
investigation should not focus on only one grammatical feature. In particular where
features are concerned that are assumed to be difﬁcult to acquire, it is wise to also
include a feature which L2 learners can be assumed to master at a relatively low level
of proﬁciency. In this manner, it can be assessed whether the overall experiment is set
up correctly and whether the bilingual participants respond as expected to gram-
matical violations that they do master. Such a test feature can also serve as a com-
plement to the more off-line measures of general proﬁciency described in Chap. 2.
Investigating multiple grammatical structures within the same experiment,
however, may inflate the total number of stimuli beyond the limits of feasibility.
The number of trials necessary to obtain a reliable ERP depends on a number of
factors, the most important being the “signal-to-noise ratio”, that is, the size of the
signal (the ERP) relative to the size of the noise (the background EEG), and this
will vary across setups, experiments and participants. In language experiments,
more than 20 stimulus presentations per condition per participant are commonly
regarded as necessary to obtain a good clean average ERP, although very strong and
reliable effects, such as the P600 in response to a syntactic violation, may elicit an
effect with fewer items. However, limiting the number of stimuli accordingly may
mean that other components that are also present but not as strong, such as a LAN,
remain undetected. Unfortunately, presentation of a large number of sentences
containing the same grammatical manipulation will almost inevitably cause par-
ticipants to become aware of the manipulation. This may lead to two things: First,
participants may pay conscious attention to the target violation, or conversely they
may begin to habituate to it. To some extent these effects can be minimized by the
inclusion of ﬁller items. A large number of items and ﬁllers, however, may lead to
an experiment that is very long, particularly if many factors are tested. Good design
therefore often requires compromise between power and coverage, and it may not
be possible to test all of the constructions or variants in which the researcher is
interested within one single experiment. As a rule of thumb, in order to avoid both
fatigue and frustration among participants (both of which can lead to problematic
results, in addition to being ethically undesirable), an EEG experiment should
include a number of breaks and not last longer than 1½ h.
The last issue to be discussed in the context of experimental design concerns the
mode of presentation. Timing is a critical factor in ERP research; it is necessary to
know with absolute precision the moment at which a grammatical violation
becomes detectable in order to time-lock the EEG analysis to that moment. For this
reason, most studies opt for written stimuli and Rapid Serial Visual Presentation
(RSVP), that is, showing sentences one word at a time for a brief period (typically
around 250 ms) in the middle of the computer screen. However, this type of
presentation, while convenient, may seriously disadvantage bilingual participants
and thus lead to a confound between native and non-native populations. First,
quickly and automatically detecting a violation in written text depends heavily on
the level of reading experience, which will differ between populations, since the
90 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
L2ers will have begun reading their second language much later and may not read it
as frequently. Second, RSVP places more demands on working memory than does
normal reading, and again this factor may impact native versus L2 populations
differently (see Chap. 2). Lastly, processing of the written form may be influenced
by the familiarity with the L2 script, producing another source of differences
between some L2 learners (whose L1 uses a different script than the L2) and
monolinguals (for a direct comparison of visual and auditory stimuli in an ERP
study of bilingual processing see Meulman et al. 2014). Although constructing
auditory stimuli and embedding them in the experiment is more challenging and
time-consuming than creating a visual experiment, we feel that the beneﬁts of using
the spoken mode outweigh the disadvantages when it comes to investigations of
bilingual processing.
6.2.2 Multifactorial Considerations
In this section we will outline the steps that are necessary when designing and
setting up an EEG experiment of bilingual processing, based on the
multi-population and multi-lab investigation of grammatical processing among
bilinguals on which the present volume is based. Like the eye-tracking study
described in Chap. 5, the ERP study focused on grammatical gender. The EEG
experiment was different from the others described in the present volume in that the
gender concord condition was augmented by a second grammatical feature, namely
agreement between a non-ﬁnite main verb and its verbal auxiliary. This feature is
assumed to be acquired and retained more easily and at lower proﬁciency levels
than grammatical gender (see Loerts 2012; Sabourin and Stowe 2008), and the
non-ﬁnite verb condition was thus included to serve as a proﬁciency control for the
gender agreement condition in the manner suggested above.
The main interest of the current study was to assess under what circumstances
bilingual populations differ at the neuronal level with respect to the processing of
their second language (L2 learners) or their ﬁrst language (L1 attriters) from pre-
dominantly monolingual speakers. Factors which are expected to influence the
outcome are the age at which the individual became bilingual, the speaker’s pro-
ﬁciency in the language under investigation and the amount of use which is made of
the L1 and the L2 respectively. For the L2 learners the presence of a similar
construction in the L1 is also relevant. Across the two languages under observation
(Dutch and German) a further factor relates to the salience and reliability of gender
agreement in the language being tested. As was pointed out in Chap. 1, the two
experimental languages differ considerably with respect to this point. If salience and
reliability affect acquisition and/or attrition, this should be reflected in participants’
brain responses.
Target populations included a variety of L2 Dutch and German speakers both
from languages which mark gender concord morphologically and from languages
which do not, as well as Dutch and German attriters (see Chap. 1). Acquiring data
6.2 Designing an ERP Experiment 91
for these populations necessarily involved EEG labs in several cities spread over
four different countries (see Chap. 3). We will discuss the combination of these data
in more detail in Sect. 6.5.
6.3 Materials
The non-ﬁnite verb control condition is virtually identical in German and in Dutch,
reducing the difﬁculties of creating matched materials across the two languages. In
both languages, periphrastic verb constructions with a ﬁnite auxiliary verb require
the past participle form of the main lexical verb, while constructions with a ﬁnite
modal auxiliary require the inﬁnitival form. Forty-eight pairs of sentences were
constructed, and in one member of each pair the correct past participle or inﬁnitive
was replaced by the ungrammatical inﬁnitive or past participle verb form (see
Table 6.1). It should be noted that the type of construction (inﬁnitive vs. past
participle target form) was not included as a factor in the analyses but merely served
to decrease the predictability of the construction in order to prevent participants
habituating to the violation.
Constructing stimuli for the gender condition was somewhat more complex, due
to the crosslinguistic differences. Both Dutch and German mark grammatical gender
on various aspects within and across noun phrases (determiners, adjectives, quan-
tiﬁers, pronouns etc.) and in both languages gender agreement interacts with def-
initeness (see Chap. 1). An investigation of all of these different agreement types
would have been beyond the feasibility of a single study, given the comparatively
large number of tokens necessary for any particular condition in an EEG experi-
ment. We therefore decided to limit the grammatical gender agreement manipula-
tions to two constructions: (1) deﬁnite determiner–noun (Dgen–N) structures, in
which gender agreement is expressed on adjacent elements in both languages, and
(2) deﬁnite determiner–adjective–noun (Dgen–Adj–N) structures, in which gender
agreement is non-adjacent. The inclusion of the latter has two reasons; ﬁrst,
agreement across a longer distance has been shown to affect the P600 effect in L2
populations (Foucart and Frenck-Mestre 2012), and second, the presence of an
intervening element prevents the use of a chunking strategy to mimic gender
knowledge.
The design and materials of the Dutch version of this experiment were partly
based on the study of second-language acquisition of Dutch gender reported by
Loerts (2012).3
The materials consisted of 96 pairs of sentences. For each gram-
matical sentence, an ungrammatical version was constructed which contained a
3
Loerts’ study includes a third type of sentence, namely indeﬁnite determiner—adjective—noun,
and as a result had less tokens per condition. In order to ensure validity and reliability for our
study, which (unlike Loerts’ investigation) included experiments from different populations and
data acquired at different sites, we decided to test only the two structures mentioned and increase
the number of tokens per structure.
92 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
gender violation on the article (see Table 6.1), leading to a total of 192 sentences.
The pairs were distributed evenly over the two genders of Dutch (48 sentences
contained a common gender noun, and 48 sentences a neuter one), and over the two
types of constructions (D-N and D-Adj-N), so that the ﬁnal set of grammatical
sentences comprised 24 D-N sentences with common and 24 D-N sentences with
neuter nouns, and the same number of D-Adj-N sentences. In creating the set of
German materials we attempted to emulate as closely as possible the same
manipulations of gender. The gender contrasts in this language were therefore
limited to masculine and neuter nouns, in order to avoid contrasting the Dutch
two-way distinction with a three-way one in German (the feminine was excluded
due to the form overlap of the determiner for all genders in the plural).
It should be noted here that the structure of the sentences between the two lan-
guages differed somewhat, due to cross-linguistic differences. In the Dutch experi-
ment, the manipulations were usually encoded on an object or a prepositional phrase
to allow for the target noun to appear towards the middle of the sentence. For German,
using the target in the object position would have implied using oblique case forms in
which unambiguous gender identiﬁcation is not always possible (since, for example,
masculine and neuter are identical in the dative, while the nominative and accusative
forms are identical for the neuter but not for the masculine). We therefore decided to
Table 6.1 Samples of the experimental materials per condition of the Dutch and German version
of the example experiment, showing the possible article–noun and non-ﬁnite verb combinations
that created the grammatical and violation conditions
Condition Dutch example sentence German example sentence Number
of items
per list
Gender,
D–N
Na het ongeluk werd de vrouw
per ambulance naar het/*de
ziekenhuis gebracht
Nach der Schlägerei ist das/*der
Auge des Angestellten von der
Krankenschwester versorgt
worden
24/24
After the accident the woman was
brought to theneut/*thecom
hospital by ambulance
After the ﬁght theneut/*themasc eye
of the worker was treated by the
nurse
Gender,
D–Adj–N
Het verkeer raast elke ochtend
over de/*het lange weg die de
mensen naar Rotterdam brengt
Glücklicherweise ist der/*das
frühe Beginn der Konferenz nach
hinten verschoben worden
24/24
Trafﬁc rushes by every morning
along thecom/*theneut long road
which takes people to Rotterdam
Fortunately themasc/*theneut early
beginning of the conference was
postponed
Non-ﬁnite
verb
Ze hebben van de directeur een
cadeautje gekregen/*kregen voor
de kerstdagen
Leider hat die Rose diesen Herbst
noch nicht geblüht/*blühen,
obwohl wir sie jeden Tag
gegossen haben
24/24
From the manager they have
received/*receive a present for
Christmas
Unfortunately this fall the Rose
has not yet bloomed/*bloom,
although we watered it every day
6.3 Materials 93
use items that were consistently in the nominative case, where gender is most
unambiguously identiﬁable. However, inanimate items can plausibly be used as the
subject-agent of a sentence with only a limited set of verbs. We therefore decided to
frame the German stimulus sentences in the passive. The passive sentences included
sentence-initial topicalized elements to induce inversion of the subject to the position
after the ﬁnite verb in which it is unambiguously nominative. This strategy had the
added advantage that the sentences were structurally more similar to the Dutch ones,
with the target item always appearing in post-verbal position. Example items of each
condition are given in Table 6.1 and a full list of all experimental materials can be
found in the online supplementary material.
Following Loerts (2012), a third factor was taken into account for the Dutch
experiment. This factor relates to the predictability of the upcoming target noun, a
factor also known as cloze probability (Kutas et al. 1984). The Dutch experiment
included this experimental manipulation in the gender conditions in order to test
effect of lexical constraint, which has been found to affect native speakers (Gunter
et al. 2000; Loerts et al. 2013) and might be similarly important for learners and
attriters. Two versions of each of the sentence pairs were therefore created, one with
a highly constraining context, and one in which the target noun was unpredictable
from the preceding information (see examples in Table 6.2). Hence, the Dutch
experiment in fact contained quartets instead of pairs of sentences.
If treated as a full factorial design, the number of items for each condition is
further halved to 12. As was pointed out above, it is desirable to keep the number of
stimuli per condition above 20, in order to avoid a poor signal-to-noise ratio (see
Sect. 6.2.1), particularly for between-group designs. Increasing our stimuli to this
number, however, would have inflated the total number of items, and thus the
length of the experiment, beyond the limits of feasibility. We therefore opted to
initially test the main effect of cloze probability (without differentiating between the
D-N and the D–Adj–N structures) between populations. Unfortunately, the struc-
tural differences between the Dutch and German sentences made it impossible to
create high cloze sentences in the German experiment, since the topicalized phrase
and the passive auxiliary sein ‘to be’ which preceded the target nouns provided
insufﬁcient constraint. This was deemed acceptable, as the information from this
Table 6.2 Example sentences of the cloze probability manipulation in the grammatical gender
sentences of the Dutch experiment
Condition Dutch example sentence Number of
items per list
High cloze Johan betaalde de motor met het/*de geld dat hij voor zijn
verjaardag kreeg
24/24
Johan paid for the motorcycle with theneut/*thecom money that
he received for his birthday
Low cloze Johan was erg blij met het/*de geld dat hij voor zijn verjaardag
kreeg
24/24
Johan was very happy with theneut/*thecom money that he
received for his birthday
94 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
manipulation would be available for the Dutch attriters and learners and no dif-
ference is expected between languages for this aspect of processing, unlike for
gender agreement.
The frequency of the target items was assessed on the basis of the CELEX
corpus (Baayen et al. 1995) for Dutch and the DeReKo corpus (Institut für
Deutsche Sprache 2010) for German. All target items fell within the highest fre-
quency range in both languages, and should therefore be familiar to bilinguals as
well as monolinguals. Plausibility and comprehensibility of experimental sentences
was determined by means of pre-testing. Such a pre-test can either be done in the
form of a formal written questionnaire (e.g., the grammatical variant of all stimulus
sentences being rated for plausibility on a 5-point scale) or in an informal manner
during which the researcher presents each individual with the stimulus sentences
and asks them to comment on plausibility and comprehensibility. The latter
approach was taken in the current study, as auditory presentation was considered
important as well as the possibility to receive qualitative feedback. Both natives and
second-language learners of each target language participated in these pretests, and
in those cases where there were any problems with plausibility or comprehensi-
bility, the stimuli sentences were adjusted.
Cloze probability was pre-tested by presenting native speakers of Dutch with
incomplete written versions of each sentence and asking them to ﬁll in the word
they thought would follow after the determiner or the determiner and adjective. This
allowed us to assess whether items were highly expected or less expected. Since in
the German experiment, the items that were used were all unpredictable, this
pre-test was not conducted for the materials in this language.
We suggested above that auditory presentation is a preferable choice when
testing participants who may have limited experience reading a given language.
This is likely to be especially true for attriters with an early age of emigration and
late second-language learners who arrive in the new country as adults (some
members of both populations may even be illiterate in the language under inves-
tigation), so auditory presentation was employed for this experiment. All sentences
were recorded by a female native speaker of Dutch and German, respectively. Both
speakers spoke the standard variety of the language and had considerable elocution
training and experience. They received practice in producing the correct and
incorrect sentences with their best approximation of normal intonation, and each
sentence was recorded three times in both its grammatical and ungrammatical
version. The clearest versions were chosen.
When recording ungrammatical sentences, it should always be kept in mind that,
no matter how carefully the speakers are trained beforehand, it is possible that
unconscious cues to the ungrammatical target remain present in pronunciation,
hesitations or intonation (evidence for prosodic cues to unexpected material has
been found by Dimitrova et al. 2009; Dimitrova 2012, shows that prosodic patterns
can be noticeably initiated before word onset). Therefore, for each sentence, two
versions of the recording were constructed: one consisting of the unaltered original
(grammatical or ungrammatical recording), while in the other the target region was
spliced together with the context preceding the target word from the other variant.
6.3 Materials 95
This resulted in four versions of each sentence: grammatical and ungrammatical
version with and without splicing. Noise reduction and volume normalization were
also applied to all sound ﬁles to reduce variability.
The resulting stimuli were divided across lists based on a Latin Square design,4
to ensure that no participant would encounter different versions of the same sen-
tence, since repetition can influence ERP responses (see above). For both lan-
guages, the factor splicing (spliced vs. unspliced) was treated as a counterbalancing
variable rather than as part of the design. The Dutch experiment also included cloze
probability (high vs. low), resulting in a total of eight (2 × 2 × 2) sentences
containing each target noun and therefore eight lists, while there were only four
(2 × 2) for the German experiment. In addition to the experimental sentences
(n = 144), all lists contained a number of well-formed ﬁller sentences, lowering the
overall proportion of incorrect sentences to around a quarter, which makes the task
more similar to natural language processing, and also reduces the noticeability of
the target violation (see above). The proportion of violations in an ERP experiment
is an important factor to keep in mind, since probability and saliency of manipu-
lations have been shown to affect the size of ERP components (Coulson et al.
1998).
6.4 Experimental Procedure
At most of the testing sites (see Chap. 3) the experiment was carried out in an
electrically shielded and sound attenuated chamber. In locations where no such
chamber existed, it was necessary to ensure that surrounding noise and electrical
influences were decreased to a minimum. Participants were comfortably seated in
front of a computer screen, at about 60 cm distance. Visual stimuli, consisting of a
ﬁxation cross and the grammaticality judgment question, were presented on this
screen. Loudspeakers were placed to the left and right side of the screen and the
volume was adjusted to be clearly audible, but not too loud, before the experiment
started. After each sentence was completed, the participant was prompted to make a
grammaticality judgment by means of a button press on the keyboard. The pre-
sentation of the auditory sentences and the recording of accuracy and reaction times
of the grammaticality judgment was done by means of E-prime (Schneider et al.
2002a, b).
Participants were asked to avoid moving any parts of their body and to not make
eye-movements or blink during sentence presentation, using the ﬁxation cross to
help maintain a constant gaze. This is important as muscular activity, blinks and eye
movements can distort the signal measured by the scalp electrodes (see below on
4
A Latin Square design is a way of distributing items across subject lists, resulting in one version
of a given sentence per list, and enough lists so that each version appears on one (and only one)
list. The stimuli given to each participant are based on one of the lists, ensuring that s/he will see
only one version of each experimental sentence.
96 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
how to deal with the artifacts that cannot be avoided). Before the experiment began,
there was a practice block with materials similar to those tested in the experiment,
to allow the participants to get used to the situation and task, and if necessary to ask
questions. The experiment itself was broken up into four blocks to allow the par-
ticipant to move freely and relax during breaks; the duration of the breaks between
blocks was determined by the participant. Depending on the length of the breaks,
the experiment lasted about one hour.
6.5 Data Recording and Analysis
One of the biggest challenges of an ERP investigation which compares data
acquired at different testing sites is that there are a number of differences between
EEG recording setups which can have important consequences for the resulting raw
data. Some researchers may be able to bring their own portable EEG setup to each
site, and can thus avoid these difﬁculties. Where this is not an option, a compromise
needs to be made between locations with similar setups and the central criterion of
access to sufﬁcient numbers of the target population. Fortunately, in many cases the
data can be processed in such a way that it will be comparable across locations, as
in the present study.
The most important characteristics of the set-up depend on the ampliﬁer and the
caps employed, in combination with the registration software. A number of
important factors depend on these two pieces of hardware: Firstly, EEG systems
differ with respect to how many electrodes are measured and where they are located
on the scalp. Secondly, there are differences in how eye-movements and blinks are
registered. A third important difference contains the on-line reference electrode and
its position. Lastly, there are differences in the sampling rate (how many mea-
surements are taken per second) and the extent of electrical noise and in the signal.
We discuss each of these factors briefly below. For more extensive discussion of the
consequences of each of these parameters we refer the reader to Luck (2014).
Number and placement of electrodes depend jointly on the ampliﬁer (how many
channels are available?) and the cap (how many electrodes can it contain?). The
set-up with the smallest number of electrodes available across all testing sites
determines how many electrodes can be used in the ﬁnal analysis, so ampliﬁers that
are equipped to deal with a larger number are to be preferred. Thirty-two are usually
considered acceptable for investigations of N400, P600 or LAN effects, as well as
for most other relevant language responses. The positions may differ slightly from
site to site as well, depending on the caps which are used locally, but the majority of
labs use positions based on the international extended 10–20 system (see Fig. 6.4).
Caps with smaller numbers of electrodes tend to use the original sites to ensure a
wide coverage of the head, so there is likely to be overlap between the sites for most
if not all electrodes. A common procedure in the analysis phase is not to use the
signal acquired from every individual electrode, but to establish so-called Regions
of Interest (ROIs). The signal from the electrodes located in this region is then
6.4 Experimental Procedure 97
averaged together. This common practice is also very useful when dealing with
caps and ampliﬁers that support different overall numbers of electrodes.
Blinks and eye movements cause distortions in the EEG signal in that they cause
waveforms of far greater amplitude than the signal measured from the brain (see
Fig. 6.5). For this reason they need to be removed or corrected (Gratton and Coles
1989). In order to detect the muscular movements associated with these two types
of activity, electrodes placed near the eye are used to register the occurrence of
blinks and vertical or horizontal eye movements (electro-oculogram or EOG).
Set-ups can consist of, for example, single electrodes beneath one eye and next to it,
to register vertical and horizontal eye movements respectively, or of bipolar elec-
trode pairs, placed above and below the pupil and at both sides. The difference
between these electrodes provides a more accurate measure of the eye movements
and blinks. Encouraging the participants to ﬁxate on a single point diminishes the
number of saccades, and asking people to refrain from blinking during sentences
decreases the number of blink artefacts. Blinks can create an additional problem for
experiments using written presentation by the RSVP method, as the reader may
miss essential information during a blink, which typically lasts about 200 ms.
Whether to reject trials that are contaminated by blinks or eye movements or
whether to try to correct for them by reconstructing the original signal is an
unresolved issue. Rejection leads to data loss, but whether the correction provides a
higher number of good trials depends on the accuracy of the correction algorithm,
which may not be sufﬁcient particularly if the data contain a substantial number of
drifts (i.e. slow voltage shifts, often caused by sweating) (Plöchl et al. 2012).
Fig. 6.4 The international 10–20 system uses four reference points (nasion, between nose and
brow; inion, at the outer edge of the tentorium; and the joint in front of both ears to place
electrodes at regular intervals based on percentage increments. Figure from Malmivuo and Plonsey
1995; redrawn from Sharbrough et al. 1991)
98 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
Ground and online reference electrodes: In addition to the EOG electrodes
which monitor eye movements and blinks, there are two more types of electrode
which are not necessarily part of the cap but essential for the EEG registration
system. The ﬁrst of these is the ground electrode, which is a common reference
point needed to be able to measure voltages. Different systems and different labs
vary in their protocol as to where to place this electrode—for example, in some labs
a position on the forehead is favoured, while others recommend placing it on the
sternum. Additionally, some systems substitute this one ground electrode by two
electrodes that are for example placed on a location in the cap. The exact location
will not affect the overall readings. Secondly, in order to eliminate electrical noise
from the ampliﬁer’s ground circuit, a reference electrode is necessary,5
and the
actual signal that is being measured is the voltage difference between this electrode
and every other electrode on the head. The location of the reference can affect the
scalp distribution of the overall signal, and if such differences should occur across
locations, it will become harder to identify an overall effect. It is therefore wise to
pay some attention to this aspect of the set-up. However, if it should not be possible
to use the same reference at all locations, it is possible later on to re-reference the
Fig. 6.5 Recordings from an electrode registering vertical eye-movements (VEOG) and EEG
electrodes located at frontal, central and posterior cites. Two blinks can be seen slightly before the
14 and 15 s markers
5
In some systems, e.g. Biosemi, data can be recorded reference-free, but has to be referenced
afterwards in order to prevent unnecessary noise in the data.
6.5 Data Recording and Analysis 99
signal to a different location (there are standard methods available in the software
packages for EEG registration and analysis to conduct this re-referencing offline).
Sampling rate (SR) is usually expressed in hertz (Hz), or number of measure-
ments per second. On many current ampliﬁers, the sampling rate can be set to a
number of different rates, but this is not true of all set-ups. In general, an SR of 500
or 512 Hz is commonly used in language experiments. For analyses, data are often
downsampled—i.e., averaged across a longer time window, but it is still useful to
record at a high SR. The higher the original SR is, the more reliable the (averaged
or downsampled) measurement, since the noise will be more reduced through the
averaging of more data points. It is good to keep the SR the same across locations,
but it is possible to downsample datasets with a higher SR in order to match them to
datasets with a lower SR (the higher rate does not have to be an exact multiple of
the lower one). Since the forms of analysis discussed in the next section do not
depend on a high sampling rate, reducing the measured data intervals does not
present a problem. In fact for some approaches downsampling provides a useful
data reduction within the statistical analysis.
Preprocessing of the data after their acquisition is an essential step in the
analysis of data acquired from several labs. This can be done with different kinds of
software, from more programming-based (Fieldtrip in Matlab), to more
user-friendly interfaces (EEGLAB in Matlab or Brain Vision Analyzer as stand-
alone software). There are many different steps to be taken in preprocessing the
data, and they are not always similar across labs. With multi-lab data, it is important
to think about the reasons why some steps need to be taken. Since many of these
preprocessing details to some extent depend on the analyzing software in your
home lab, they will not be discussed in full detail here. Instead, we will give some
examples of how we decided to process the data in the experiment discussed in this
volume. Note that there are many technical details beyond the scope of this volume
associated with each of these steps. We refer the reader to Luck (2014) for a full
discussion.
• Downsampling: Datasets with higher sample rates were downsampled to 500 Hz
to make all sampling rates equal.
• Re-referencing: We chose to re-reference our data to mastoid locations (or
electrodes in the cap that were very close to the same position), because out of
the possible options, these were the most similar across locations. In addition,
since most language studies on sentence processing have made use of averaged
mastoid or ear references, which are relatively similar to each other, this made
our study comparable to previous research.
• Filtering: We ﬁltered our data with a high-pass ﬁlter of 0.1 Hz, and a low-pass
ﬁlter of 40 Hz. We chose to do this at 24 dB/octave, because this gives a slow
slope of rejecting frequencies. Again, the choices depend on what is best for the
data available and the effects you are interested in. Some researchers decide not
to ﬁlter at all, but ﬁltering the data removes some extremely high and low
frequency alternations that can be regarded as noise.
100 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
• Ocular Correction: We decided to use the so-called Gratton-Coles algorithm for
ocular correction. In order to keep this correction as similar as possible across
locations we calculated bipolar EOG channels for those datasets that did not
have a bipolar EOG measurement. Eye movement correction can occur before
or after the segments of EEG time-locked to an event are extracted from the
data. This depends on the algorithm which is used. With Gratton-Coles, using
unsegmented, continuous data yields better results.
• Segmentation: With this step, segments of the data are created which include a
baseline period, used to show that no differences existed between conditions
before the event of interest. The time window following the event should
include all time windows which are relevant. For example, the P600 may extend
until 1400 ms after the information that evokes it, in monolinguals, so the epoch
should be at least that long; to examine delayed effects, a longer epoch should be
used when learner populations are included.
• Artifact rejection: We removed segments in which the activity violated certain
criteria (e.g., a large increase in microvolts over 200 ms). There are also ways to
correct artifacts instead of removing them, for example using an independent or
principle components analysis (ICA or PCA) to detect certain regularities such
as blinks, drifts or other artifacts. This procedure if often time-consuming and
may not be worth the effort if you are interested in large components such as the
P600. It is also more subjective than using clear criteria for artifact rejection.
6.6 Statistical Approaches and Interpretation of Results
There are generally three types of statistical procedures used for the analysis of
EEG data. The ﬁrst is the most traditional and commonly used statistical technique,
namely univariate or repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA). The
common procedure is to (1) create ERPs by averaging single trials of EEG (epochs)
per individual per condition, (2) calculate the average/maximum amplitudes per
individual within a speciﬁc latency window and (3) use these average/maximum
amplitudes as a dependent variable in the ANOVA analysis to test hypotheses
(Hoormann et al. 1998). This approach assumes that all the factors are factorial
(e.g., that there are equal numbers of participants in each group) and is generally
difﬁcult to apply when continuous factors like age of onset/arrival are involved.
For this reason, mixed-effects or multiple regression approaches have been
developed which can determine which factors are the best predictors of the learning
outcome (e.g., Baayen 2008; Cunnings 2012; see Smith and Kutas 2015, for an
application within EEG research). Mixed effects models in particular allow for the
inclusion of participants with missing data. In addition, they can handle single trial
analysis (as opposed to averaging across trials), non-linear time effects, time × per-
son effects (random slope effects) and a within-subject covariate. A third, more
recent, approach, generalized additive mixed-effects models (GAMs) is an
6.5 Data Recording and Analysis 101
extension of the mixed effects regression approach which can deal with non-linear
effects gracefully (Wood 2006; see Tremblay and Baayen 2010, for an application
of GAMs to EEG data). For this reason it is an interesting method for examining
delay in onset and other complex differences in waveform that are measured with
ERPs.
A detailed treatment of the exact statistical approaches we took in the example
experiment, which differed to some extent depending on the exact datasets being
analyzed, is beyond the scope of this chapter. Instead the reader is referred to the
citations above for more in-depth discussion. However, we want to encourage
researchers to think carefully about the choice of a particular statistical method,
since this can have important consequences for the outcome and conclusions of a
study. Many ERP studies on bilingual processing are somewhat problematic in that
they create discrete groups on the basis of continuous variables such as age of
acquisition, rather than taking into account the full range of variability amongst
learners (i.e., by using the numerical value itself). Not only are the decisions on
where to set the cutoff age between the different groups invariably somewhat
arbitrary, in order to be able to uncover the true shape of age of acquisition or
attrition effects an approach that uses continuous predictors is also far superior.
Most studies that have resorted to traditional group averaging might therefore not
have been able to report the full story.
Lastly, we want to say a word about potential multilab data differences—that is,
effects in the data that are actually the outcome of them having been collected at
different sites. In order to ensure that this is not the case, the researcher should
ensure that there is no interaction between any effect of interest and the measuring
site. A second problem for data analysis may be posed when the numbers and
positions of the electrodes in the cap differ across labs. The best strategy here is to
determine the locations of the electrodes in those caps that have the smallest overall
number, and continue the analysis using only these locations, ignoring all other
electrodes in those cases where there are more. However, sometimes all electrodes
are not situated at exactly the same corresponding locations. In this case, a region of
interest (ROI) based approach can be useful. In this approach, the signal from a
number of electrodes which cover a certain area of the scalp where an effect is
expected is combined. For example, the P600 is expected to be largest over parietal
electrodes and to extend to central and occipital electrodes as well. Figure 6.6
shows a selection of electrodes that can therefore be used in a ROI that investigates
P600 effects. Although some sensitivity to exact location may be lost when using
ROIs, differences in scalp distribution are difﬁcult to interpret across different
groups, as they may reflect differences in the brain morphology (sulci and gyri)
rather than a truly different location in the brain. Such a reduction of the data may
also be necessary for some types of analyses, as GAM analyses of large numbers of
electrodes or ROIs can take up very signiﬁcant amounts of processing time.
When interpreting results it is important to keep in mind the real goal of the
study. It is tempting to over-interpret minor effects of factors such as AoA or the L1
of the learner. If all bilinguals, regardless of AoA, look quite similar to the
102 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
monolinguals (e.g. in that they display a P600), then this predictor plays a minor
role in how a second language is processed, even if there is a statistically signiﬁcant
interaction. Quantitative differences, such as a delay in onset or a smaller amplitude
of an ERP component, suggest processing limitations rather than truly different
processing. The factors that cause qualitative changes are the most interesting: If an
N400 appears instead of a P600, it indicates that a particular variable is associated
with a truly different strategy (McLaughlin et al. 2010).
Suggestions for Further Reading
Handy, T.C. (ed.). 2005. Event-related potentials: A methods handbook. Cambridge: MIT press.
Kaan, E. 2007. Event-related potentials and language processing: A brief overview. Language and
Linguistics Compass 1(6): 571–591.
Kutas, M., and C. Van Petten. 1994. Psycholinguistics electriﬁed. Event-Related Brain Potential
Investigations. In Handbook of psycholinguistics, ed. M.A. Gernsbacher, 83–143. San Diego:
Academic Press.
Luck, S.J. 2014a. An introduction to the event-related potential technique, 2nd ed. Cambridge:
MIT press.
Picton, T.W., S. Bentin, P. Berg, E. Donchin, S.A. Hillyard, R. Johnson, et al. 2000. Guidelines for
using human event-related potentials to study cognition: Recording standards and publication
criteria. Psychophysiology 37(02): 127–152.
Rugg, M.D., and M.G. Coles. 1995. Electrophysiology of mind: Event-related brain potentials and
cognition. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fig. 6.6 An example of a
typical region of interest
(ROI) to measure the P600
effect
6.6 Statistical Approaches and Interpretation of Results 103
References
Baayen, H. 2008. Analyzing linguistic data: A practical introduction to statistics using R.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Baayen, R.H., Piepenbrock, R., and Gullikers, L. 1995. The CELEX lexical database [CD-ROM],
682. Philadelphia: Linguistics Data Consortium, University of Pennsylvania.
Balota, D.A., M.J. Yap, M.J. Cortese, K.A. Hutchison, B. Kessler, B. Loftis, et al. 2007. The
english lexicon project. Behavior Research Methods 39: 445–459.
Barber, H., and M. Carreiras. 2005. Grammatical gender and number agreement in Spanish:
An ERP comparison. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 17(1): 137–153.
Besson, M., M. Kutas, and C. Van Petten. 1992. An event-related potential (ERP) analysis of
semantic congruity and repetition effects in sentences. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 4(2):
132–149.
Brouwer, H., H. Fitz, and J. Hoeks. 2012. Getting real about semantic illusions: Rethinking the
functional role of the P600 in language comprehension. Brain Research 1446: 127–143.
Clahsen, H., and C. Felser. 2006. Grammatical processing in language learners. Applied
Psycholinguistics 27(01): 3–42.
Coulson, S., J.W. King, and M. Kutas. 1998. Expect the unexpected: Event-related brain response
to morphosyntactic violations. Language and Cognitive Processes 13(1): 21–58.
Cunnings, I. 2012. An overview of mixed-effects statistical models for second language
researchers. Second Language Research 28(3): 369–382.
Dimitrova, D.V. (2012). Neural correlates of prosody and information structure. PhD Thesis,
University of Groningen.
Dimitrova, D.V., Redeker, G., and Hoeks, J.C. (2009). Did you say a BLUE banana? the prosody
of contrast and abnormality in Bulgarian and Dutch. Interspeech 999–1002.
Dimitrova, D.V., L.A. Stowe, G. Redeker, and J.C. Hoeks. 2012. Less is not more: Neural
responses to missing and superfluous accents in context. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 24
(12): 2400–2418.
Federmeier, K.D., and M. Kutas. 1999. A rose by any other name: long-term memory structure and
sentence processing. Journal of Memory and Language 41: 469–495.
Foucart, A. (2008). Grammatical gender processing in French as a ﬁrst and second language.
PhD Dissertation, University of Edinburgh and University of Provence, France.
Foucart, A., and C. Frenck-Mestre. 2011. Grammatical gender processing in L2:
Electrophysiological evidence of the effect of L1–L2 syntactic similarity. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition 14(03): 379–399.
Foucart, A., and C. Frenck-Mestre. 2012. Can late L2 learners acquire new grammatical features?
Evidence from ERPs and eye-tracking. Journal of Memory and Language 66(1): 226–248.
Frenck-Mestre, C., A. Foucart, H. Carrasco, and J. Herschensohn. 2009. Processing of
grammatical gender in French as a ﬁrst and second language evidence from ERPs. EuroSLA
Yearbook 9(1): 76–106.
Friederici, A.D. 1995. The time course of syntactic activation during language processing: A
model based on neuropsychological and neurophysiological data. Brain and Language 50(3):
259–281.
Friederici, A.D., A. Hahne, and A. Mecklinger. 1996. Temporal structure of syntactic parsing:
Early and late event-related brain potential effects. Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Learning, Memory, and Cognition 22(5): 1219.
Friederici, A.D., E. Pfeifer, and A. Hahne. 1993. Event-related brain potentials during natural
speech processing: Effects of semantic, morphological and syntactic violations. Cognitive
Brain Research 1(3): 183–192.
Gratton, G., and M.H. Coles. 1989. Generalization and evaluation of eye-movement correction
procedures. Journal of Psychophysiology 3: 14–16.
104 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
Gunter, T., A. Friederici, and H. Schriefers. 2000. Syntactic gender and semantic expectancy:
ERPs reveal early autonomy and late interaction. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 12(4):
556–568.
Hagoort, P., and C.M. Brown. 1999. Gender electriﬁed: ERP evidence on the syntactic nature of
gender processing. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 28(6): 715–728.
Hagoort, P., L. Hald, M. Bastiaansen, and K.M. Petersson. 2004. Integration of word meaning and
world knowledge in language comprehension. Science 304: 438–441.
Holcomb, P.J., and H.J. Neville. 1991. Natural speech processing: An analysis using event-related
brain potentials. Psychobiology 19(4): 286–300.
Hoormann, J., M. Falkenstein, P. Schwarzenau, and J. Hohnsbein. 1998. Methods for the
quantiﬁcation and statistical testing of ERP differences across conditions. Behavior Research
Methods, Instruments, and Computers 30(1): 103–109.
Institut für Deutsche Sprache. 2010. Deutsches Referenzkorpus/Archiv der Korpora geschriebener
Gegenwartssprache 2010-I (Release vom 02.03.2010). Mannheim: Institut für Deutsche
Sprache. http://www.ids-mannheim.de/kl/projekte/korpora/archiv.html.
Kaan, E., A. Harris, E. Gibson, and P. Holcomb. 2000. The P600 as an index of syntactic
integration difﬁculty. Language and Cognitive Processes 15(2): 159–201.
Keuleers, E., K. Diependaele, and M. Brysbaert. 2010. Practice effects in large-scale visual word
recognition studies: a lexical decision study on 14,000 Dutch mono- and disyllabic words and
nonwords. Frontiers in Psychology 1: 1–15.
King, J., and M. Kutas. 1995. Who did what and when? Using word-and clause-level ERPs to
monitor working memory usage in reading. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 7(3): 376–395.
Kluender, R., and M. Kutas. 1993. Bridging the gap: Evidence from ERPs on the processing of
unbounded dependencies. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 5(2): 196–214.
Kuhl, P.K. 2010. Brain mechanisms in early language acquisition. Neuron 67(5): 713–727.
Kutas, M., and S.A. Hillyard. 1980. Reading senseless sentences: Brain potentials reflect semantic
incongruity. Science 207(4427): 203–205.
Kutas, M., T. Lindamood, and S. Hillyard. 1984. Word expectancy and event-related brain
potentials during sentence processing. In Preparatory states and processes, ed. S. Kornblum,
and J. Requin, 217–237. Hillsdale: Erlbaum.
Loerts, H. 2012. Uncommon gender. Eyes and brains, native and second language learners, &
grammatical gender. PhD dissertation, University of Groningen.
Loerts, H., L.A. Stowe, and M.S. Schmid. 2013. Predictability speeds up the re-analysis process:
An ERP investigation of gender agreement and cloze probability. Journal of Neurolinguistics
26(5): 561–580.
Luck, S.J. 2005. Ten simple rules for designing ERP experiments. In Event-related potentials: A
methods handbook, ed. T.C. Handy. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Luck, S.J. 2014b. An introduction to the event-related potential technique, 2nd ed. Cambridge:
MIT press.
Luck, S.J., and E.S. Kappenman (eds.). 2012. The Oxford handbook of event-related potential
components. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Malmivuo, J., and R. Plonsey. 1995. Bioelectromagnetism: Principles and applications of
bioelectric and biomagnetic ﬁelds. New York: Oxford University Press.
McLaughlin, J., L. Osterhout, and A. Kim. 2004. Neural correlates of second-language word
learning: Minimal instruction produces rapid change. Nature Neuroscience 7(7): 703–704.
McLaughlin, J., D. Tanner, I. Pitkänen, C. Frenck-Mestre, K. Inoue, G. Valentine, and L.
Osterhout. 2010. Brain potentials reveal discrete stages of L2 grammatical learning. Language
Learning 60(s2): 123–150.
Meulman, N., L.A. Stowe, S.A. Sprenger, M. Bresser, and M.S. Schmid. 2014. An ERP study on
L2 syntax processing: When do learners fail? Frontiers in Psychology 5: 01072. doi:10.3389/
fpsyg.2014.
Misra, M., T. Guo, S.C. Bobb, and J.F. Kroll. 2012. When bilinguals choose a single word to
speak: Electrophysiological evidence for inhibition of the native language. Journal of Memory
and Language 67(1): 224.
References 105
Molinaro, N., H.A. Barber, and M. Carreiras. 2011. Grammatical agreement processing in reading:
ERP ﬁndings and future directions. Cortex 47(8): 908–930.
Molinaro, N., F. Vespignani, and R. Job. 2008. A deeper reanalysis of a superﬁcial feature:
An ERP study on agreement violations. Brain Research 1228: 161–176.
Ojima, S., H. Nakata, and R. Kakigi. 2005. An ERP study of second language learning after
childhood: Effects of proﬁciency. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 17(8): 1212–1228.
Osterhout, L. 1997. On the brain response to syntactic anomalies: Manipulations of word position
and word class reveal individual differences. Brain and Language 59: 494–522.
Osterhout, L., and P.J. Holcomb. 1992. Event-related brain potentials elicited by syntactic
anomaly. Journal of Memory and Language 31(6): 785–806.
Osterhout, L., and J. Nicol. 1999. On the distinctiveness, independence, and time course of the
brain responses to syntactic and semantic anomalies. Language and Cognitive Processes 14(3):
283–317.
Osterhout, L., P.J. Holcomb, and D.A. Swinney. 1994. Brain potentials elicited by garden-path
sentences: Evidence of the application of verb information during parsing. Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition 20(4): 786.
Peltola, M.S., T. Kujala, J. Tuomainen, M. Ek, O. Aaltonen, and R. Näätänen. 2003. Native and
foreign vowel discrimination as indexed by the mismatch negativity (MMN) response.
Neuroscience Letters 352(1): 25–28.
Phillips, C., N. Kazanina, and S.H. Abada. 2005. ERP effects of the processing of syntactic
long-distance dependencies. Cognitive Brain Research 22(3): 407–428.
Plöchl, M., J.P. Ossandón, and P. König. 2012. Combining EEG and eye tracking: identiﬁcation,
characterization, and correction of eye movement artifacts in electroencephalographic data.
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience 6: 278.
Roehm, D., I. Bornkessel, H. Haider, and M. Schlesewsky. 2005. When case meets agreement:
Event-related potential effects for morphology-based conflict resolution in human language
comprehension. NeuroReport 16(8): 875–878.
Rossi, S., M. Gugler, A. Friederici, and A. Hahne. 2006. The impact of proﬁciency on syntactic
second-language processing of German and Italian: Evidence from event-related potentials.
Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 18(12): 2030–2048.
Sabourin, L., and L. Stowe. 2008. Second language processing: When are ﬁrst and second
languages processed similarly? Second Language Research 24: 397–430.
Schneider, W., A. Eschman, and A. Zuccolotto. 2002a. E-Prime user’s guide. Pittsburgh:
Psychology Software Tools Inc.
Schneider, W., A. Eschman, and A. Zuccolotto. 2002b. E-Prime reference guide. Pittsburgh:
Psychology Software Tools Inc.
Sharbrough, F., G.E. Chatrian, R.P. Lesser, H. Lüders, M. Nuwer, and T.W. Picton. 1991.
American electroencephalographic society guidelines for standard electrode position nomen-
clature. Journal of Clinical Neurophysiology 8(2): 200–202.
Smith, N.J., and M. Kutas. 2015. Regression-based estimation of ERP waveforms: I. The rERP
framework. Psychophysiology 52: 157.
Steinhauer, K., K. Alter, and A.D. Friederici. 1999. Brain potentials indicate immediate use of
prosodic cues in natural speech processing. Nature Neuroscience 2: 191–196.
Steinhauer, K., E.J. White, and J.E. Drury. 2009. Temporal dynamics of late second language
acquisition: Evidence from event-related brain potentials. Second Language Research 25(1):
13–41.
Swaab, T.Y., K. Ledoux, C.C. Camblin, and M. Boudewyn. 2012. Language-related ERP
components. In The Oxford handbook of event-related potential components, ed. S.J. Luck,
and E.S. Kappenman, 397–439. New York: Oxford University Press.
Tremblay, A., and R.H. Baayen. 2010. Holistic processing of regular four-word sequences: A
behavioral and ERP study of the effects of structure, frequency, and probability on immediate
free recall. In Perspectives on formulaic language: Acquisition and communication, ed.
D. Wood, 151–173. London: The Continuum International Publishing Group.
106 6 EEG and Event-Related Brain Potentials
Van Berkum, J.J., C.M. Brown, and P. Hagoort. 1999. When does gender constrain parsing?
Evidence from ERPs. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 28(5): 555–566.
Van Hell, J.G., and N. Tokowicz. 2010. Event-related brain potentials and second language
learning: Syntactic processing in late L2 learners at different L2 proﬁciency levels. Second
Language Research 26(1): 43–74.
Van Petten, C., and M. Kutas. 1990. Interactions between sentence context and word frequency in
event-related brain potentials. Memory & Cognition 18(4): 380–393.
Van Petten, C., and M. Kutas. 1991. Influences of semantic and syntactic context on open-and
closed-class words. Memory & Cognition 19(1): 95–112.
Weber, K., and A. Lavric. 2008. Syntactic anomaly elicits a lexico-semantic (N400) ERP effect in
the second language but not the ﬁrst. Psychophysiology 45(6): 920–925.
Weber-Fox, C., and H. Neville. 1996. Maturational constraints on functional specializations for
language processing: ERP and behavioral evidence in bilingual speakers. Journal of Cognitive
Neuroscience 8(3): 231–256.
Weber-Fox, C., and H.J. Neville. 2001. Sensitive periods differentiate processing of open-and
closed-class words: An ERP study of bilinguals. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing
Research 44(6): 1338–1353.
Wood, S. 2006. Generalized additive models: An introduction with R. Boca Raton: Chapman &
Hall/CRC Press.
References 107
