Variability and Allomorphy in the Morphosyntax of Catalan Past Perfective 13
As discussed in Pomino and Remberger 2008 for Spanish ir, suppletion
becomes especially interesting—and problematic—in cases where we have a
single item that behaves sometimes as a functional element, sometimes as a
lexical unit. This is the case of the verb anar ‘go’. This verb appears in dif-
ferent contexts, auxiliary or lexical, as illustrated in (22).
(22) a. En Joan va fer deures.
the Joan aux.3sg do homework
‘Joan did homework.’
b. En Joan va fent deures.
the Joan go.3sg.pr.ind do.ger homework
‘Joan keeps doing homework.’
c. En Joan va a fer deures.
the Joan go.3sg.prs.ind to do homework
‘Joan is going right now to do homework.’
d. En Joan va a Tarragona.
the Joan go.3sg.prs.ind to Tarragona
‘Joan goes to Tarragona.’
e. En Joan va en cotxe / de pressa / despullat.
The Joan go.3sg.prs.ind in car of hurry naked
‘Joan goes by car / fast / naked.’
Although a full account of the properties of anar ‘go’ is beyond the scope
of this chapter, I will provide the basic insight that allows the treatment of all
instances of anar as derived from a single abstract f-morpheme. I propose that
this f-morpheme contributes a meaning of unspecified or neutral motion—
that is, it is a vmotion. The exact semantics of this event head is derived from
the syntactic environment for each particular instance. When the vmotion forma-
tive merges in the syntactic derivation in its regular lower v location, it func-
tions as the regular verb go, as in (22c–e). In this case, it is interpreted as
temporal motion (immediate prospective) or spatial motion (directional, in a
certain manner) depending on the kind of complements it takes—for example,
complements denoting prospectivity (see Pomino and Remberger 2008) or
immediate future (22c),17
a path (22d), or a manner (22e). In addition, it can
also be inserted higher in the construction, as in (22a), and presumably also
(22b), if we assume that the latter is a case of the auxiliary go. In these cases,
vmotion will be inserted postsyntactically, at the level of MS. That is, in the
syntax, a vaux is inserted in the manner shown in section 1.2.1.2, but it is in
the morphological component that a vmotion is inserted as an unspecified or
default auxiliary. In the case of the past auxiliary, it is interpreted as past tense,
because T is past and it is so interpreted at LF. This is not a stipulation; it just
14 Chapter 1
follows from the fact that a default vaux merges with a perfective past temporal
head.
Let us make the insertion of the syntacticosemantic formative vmotion more
explicit. The idea is that before VI applies to a vaux sister of a past perfective
T, the auxiliary Vocabulary items in (23) compete for insertion,18
and the
default f-morpheme motion is selected, which then will refer to its corre-
sponding set of phonological exponents for VI, where again the default expo-
nent is selected. In other words, the rule of Go-support in (13) inserts a neutral
vaux category as a terminal node, but it does not specify its subtype or “flavor.”
Later, at MS and before Vocabulary Insertion, a second process adds a motion
feature as an elsewhere option.
(23) Auxiliaries that compete for insertion into vaux in Catalan
haver ↔ [+aux, +perf] ‘have’
ser ↔ [+aux, +pass] ‘be’
estar ↔ [+aux, +prog] ‘be-stative’
desplaçament ↔ <elsewhere> ‘motion’
This proposal is similar to Embick’s (1997) dissociated morpheme, but with
dissociated features instead.19
That is, a v terminal node is added to the struc-
ture by the Go-support rule and produces an auxiliary verb structure vaux-T in
syntax. At this point, vaux is fully content-neutral, and it functions as a syntactic
well-formedness item, as stated in section 1.2.1.2. At MS, that terminal node
is filled with features that determine which actual vocabulary items will be
able to spell out the terminal node in a process of default dissociated feature
insertion of motion that applies before Vocabulary Insertion. Apart from the
set of typical auxiliary verbs haver, ser, estar, no other Catalan verb shows
the kind of suppletive allomorphy found in anar, which forces the system to
treat it as an f-morpheme. My contention is that being verbal, which means
being categorized as v in DM, makes this f-morpheme suitable to compete for
insertion into a v node, and since it is completely underspecified, vmotion is
selected as a default f-morpheme in the past perfective, thus acquiring the
apparent surface status of a specific past marker. After vmotion is selected, VI
applies.
The general assumption of a separate auxiliary past form implies the exis-
tence of two unrelated go elements, an auxiliary and a lexical verb (e.g., see
Pomino and Remberger 2008 for a formal account). Otherwise, one is forced
to claim that a new kind of element originates when lexical categories are
merged as functional heads. Cardinaletti and Giusti (2001) argue for a semi-
lexical motion verb in Italian, where the auxiliary loses all of its selectional
and semantic properties and retains only its morphological properties. More
Variability and Allomorphy in the Morphosyntax of Catalan Past Perfective 15
recently, it has been explicitly claimed that the Catalan go-past auxiliary “is
void of semantic content” (Jacobs 2011, 228, and references there). Despite
the assumption of a basic semantics of undefined motion for an abstract
f-morpheme motion, note that the Go-support analysis in section 1.2.1.2
solves a long-standing debate about the synchronic relation between the lexical
verb anar and the auxiliary go-past. In (22a–e) we are dealing with just one
form, whose complex interpretation derives from its syntactic environment.
No claims about new categories or about the multiplication of go elements are
necessary.
1.2.2.2 Root Suppletion as Contextual Allomorphy of F-morphemes
I have already shown that the two instances of va- are syntactically related;
both derive from an abstract f-morpheme motion that can be inserted at dif-
ferent structural positions at different stages of the derivation, which rules out
the possibility of a chance homophony. That also means that /b/ and /an/ are
phonological exponents of this f-morpheme motion. The next thing to do is
to determine their contexts of insertion. When considering the entire paradigm
in (21), at first glance it would appear that /b/ is the specific, being inserted
in a [-pst] context, and /an/ would be the elsewhere exponent. Following
standard elsewhere ordering principles within the DM framework (Halle and
Marantz 1993; Noyer 1992), contextually conditioned VI blocks the insertion
of the expected Vocabulary item. And, in principle, we would expect /an/ in
the whole paradigm, so that we would have the Vocabulary Items in (24),
where the auxiliary appears as a homophonous unrelated Vocabulary Item.
(24) Vocabulary items for f-morpheme vmotion—Option 1
vmotion ↔ /b/
/an/
On the other hand, Bobaljik (2002) views cases of true syncretism as neu-
tralizations where a less marked Vocabulary Item is inserted. It has been
claimed that the past auxiliary in Catalan underwent a process of phonological
regularization during the grammaticalization process, which I see as a case of
neutralization, where the elsewhere exponent has been inserted. I propose the
Vocabulary Items in (25).
(25) Vocabulary items for f-morpheme vmotion—Option 2
vmotion ↔ /an/ / ______ [+F] ([+F] = marked context)
/b/ / <elsewhere>
16 Chapter 1
These Vocabulary Items are inserted where expected, assuming that the
context [+part, +pl] of 1/2pl present indicative forms is a marked context,
which is unproblematic (e.g., Siewierska 2004). In the auxiliary, which hosts
the very marked T features [+pst, +perf], we do not obtain the expected
results, though. There are different options to formally obtain paradigm level-
ing in the auxiliary.20
Paradigm leveling could be related to having the opera-
tion of VI taking place in different phases, so that the marked features of T
would not affect the insertion of /b/ in vaux.21
Another possibility is that when
a completely empty syntactic object is filled with an elsewhere vmotion f-
morpheme, the operation inhibits the visibility of contextual features (see
Calabrese 2003 for the notion of inhibition). This may also be related to a
more general theory of default exponence and its interaction with markedness,
a project that will have to await further research.22
1.2.3 Syncretism
At this point, we can explain the surface similarity between the present indica-
tive of anar and the auxiliary of the standard analytic past. In Oltra-Massuet
1999, 2000, I proposed the syntactic structure in (26) for the present tense,
which can now be compared to the structure I have proposed for the auxiliary
of the analytic past in (27). In the forms other than 1/2pl, the syncretism arises
despite the different morphosyntactic structure. Vocabulary Items, since they
are underspecified, may be inserted in different morphosyntactic positions. For
instance, in (26) whereas the vowel /a/ in the present indicative is the theme
vowel realized in the theme position adjoined to a verbalizing head v, the vowel
/a/ corresponds to the one adjoined to the auxiliary head vaux in the past perfec-
tive in (27). Lack of syncretism in 1/2pl is due to default insertion and para-
digm leveling in the context of a vaux.
(26) 2sg Present indicative vas
[ [ vmotion Th ] ][ T/Agr ] ]
b á z
(27) 2sg Analytic past perfective vas
[ [ vaux Th ] Agr ]
b á z
1.3 Conclusions
The DM analysis of the various past perfective forms in Catalan developed
in this chapter shows that the late insertion of functional material together
with the syntactic structures proposed explains a surface morphosyntactic
Variability and Allomorphy in the Morphosyntax of Catalan Past Perfective 17
mismatch, and accounts for the partial syncretism between lexical and func-
tional anar. That va- /ba/ contributes past temporal meaning whereas the
infinitive provides the lexical content to the periphrastic forms now receives
an explanation without stipulating the existence of a semantically and mor-
phosyntactically unrelated past auxiliary. The proposal of an abstract motion
f-morpheme solves a long-standing debate on the exotic status of a go-past
auxiliary in Catalan, which, I claim, can account for all instances of anar.
More generally, it offers a new approach to the status of lexical roots that
compete for insertion into f-morphemes that could be extended to other lan-
guages where go and similar roots have both lexical and functional uses.
This proposal can be related to the main hypothesis about the diachronic path
from lexical verb anar ‘go’ to auxiliary va- put forward by Pérez Saldanya (1996,
1998). Although a more detailed analysis is necessary, note that the realization of
va- as a kind of auxiliary support at the level of T, and an infinitive realizing a
telicity-related temporal/aspectual head, is in accordance with the final stage pro-
posed in Pérez Saldanya’s account of the historical path from a lexical verb anar
‘go’ to a tense marker through an intermediate stage as an aspectual marker.
Notes
I am especially indebted to two anonymous reviewers for valuable comments and sug-
gestions that have improved the chapter substantially. Thanks to E. Bonet and O.
Matushansky for very insightful suggestions, even though some of them will have to
await future research, as well as to J. Mascaró for helpful comments to a previous version,
to E. Clua for his Valencian corpus, to G. Gómez Duran for data on Rossellonese, and
to A. Guardiola Severí for Valencian. All remaining errors are my own. This work has
been funded by MICINN grants FFI2010-22181-C03-01 and FFI2009-07114/FILO.
1. See for instance Jacobs 2011 and the references there for the idea that the auxiliary
contains no semantic notion of motion.
2. But see Badia i Margarit’s (1981, 371) claim that Modern Alguerese uses the forms
in (i).
(1) {vaig vas va anam anats van} + cantar
aux.1sg aux.2sg aux.3sg aux.1pl aux.2pl aux.3pl sing
‘sang’
Note that these forms exhibit a closer relationship between the past auxiliary of the
analytic form and the lexical verb anar ‘go’. Indeed, these forms would correspond to
the Stage 0 hypothesized by Pérez Saldanya (1998) for the grammaticalization path to
the past auxiliary va-, before phonological reduction (i.e., paradigm leveling) elimi-
nated the stressed forms anam, anats (see also Colón 1976).
3. See Cipria and Roberts 2001 and De Swart 1998 for the semantic differences
between perfective and imperfective in other Romance languages (Italian and French,
respectively).
18 Chapter 1
4. See Pérez Saldanya 2002 for aspectual differences between the perfect and the
simple past. See more generally Iatridou, Anagnostopoulou, and Izvorski 2001 for
further differences.
5. Clua’s (1999) corpus contains verbal data from 70 native speakers of Valencian from
22 different towns for 5 verbs: 1st conjugation cantar ‘sing’, 2nd conjugation perdre
‘lose’ and beure ‘drink’, and 3rd conjugation sentir ‘feel/hear’ and servir ‘serve/be
useful’. Nineteen speakers from seven areas (Alzira, Elx, Guardamar, Llíria, Sagunt,
Sueca, València) use the S variant, often combined with A forms.
6. It has generally been observed that the 1sg synthetic form has been progressively
replaced by the analytic, so that most speakers always use an analytic 1sg (see e.g.
Pérez Saldanya 2002 on such sociolinguistic variation). First and third person singular
are highly idiosyncratic.
7. It should be added that the 1sg nonstandard analytic A2 form vàreig is not used at all by
the Valencian speakers of the corpus, though it can be heard in other varieties that use A2.
8. Mascaró (1986) argues that the phonological exponent for 2sg agreement features
is an underlying /z/ that turns into [s] by means of a general phonetic process of final
devoicing.
9. Note, however, that Giorgi and Pianesi (1998) propose a single T node for the simple past.
10. See Pomino and Remberger 2007 for an apparently similar proposal to account for
Spanish ir ‘go’. In their analysis, a go-support is inserted in the context of a root of a lexical
verb ir that has no phonological content. My proposal differs greatly, since vaux is adjoined
to a functional node T that has no verbal base, exactly as in English do-support.
11. In principle, there is no syntactic evidence for having the auxiliary head merged
in the syntax. It could as well be inserted in the morphology, along the lines proposed
by Ippolito (1999), based on Giorgi and Pianesi 1998, where she suggests that higher
Is (or Ts in Giorgi and Pianesi 1998) do not need to be assigned a V (i.e., an event
position) in order to be visible to the computation. Ippolito (1999, 119) further proposes
for Italian that it “is a language-specific well-formedness condition that each I require
a V. Therefore, insertion of aux happens at MS, exactly like insertion of Agr.”
12. I have assumed that a theme position is adjoined to the lower T/Asp head as well,
spelled-out as zero, which is in fact the default theme of the nominal environment in
Catalan. The status of this head is controversial. In Oltra-Massuet 1999, 2000, I assumed
that the infinitival morphosyntactic structure contains a nonfinite defective T, hence not
subject to the well-formedness condition on functional heads F, whereas in Oltra-Massuet
and Arregi 2005, we assumed that the infinitive in Spanish realizes some nonverbal
functional head. Given the well-known dual or hybrid nature, verbal and nominal, of the
infinitive (Hernanz 1999), I leave the exact details of this derivation for further research.
13. Note, however, that in certain nonstandard varieties of Catalan we get vem-veu
purificar /b′εm-b′εw puɾifiká/ instead of the regular vam-vau purificar /bám-báw
puɾifiká/ in the 1/2pl forms. Because of space limitations, I cannot discuss the details
of this variation, though note that this could be taken as morphosyntactic evidence for
having an auxiliary head merged in syntax, as opposed to those varieties where we
always have va- /ba/ (see note 11).
14. See Matushansky (chapter 4, this volume) for an analysis of synthetic comparatives
and superlatives that differs from Embick 2007a.
Variability and Allomorphy in the Morphosyntax of Catalan Past Perfective 19
15. Note that if the phonological exponent of the participle vocabulary item /t/ was
blocked for some reason, we still would get a wrong form *purificaraes ‘purified.2sg’.
Appeal to some rule of vowel reduction to derive the correct purificares would not be
possible either, since, according to Mascaró (2002a, 110), some speakers would allow
such a pronunciation in words like [sáəſə] for Sàhara.
16. But see Bonet and Harbour 2012, where it is argued that root allomorphy does
exist and cannot be restricted to f-morphemes. Still, these authors agree that auxiliaries
and light verbs like be and go are part of the language’s functional vocabulary. See also
Harley 2011 for the claim that true root suppletion is a real phenomenon.
17. Note the contrast between (22b) and the ungrammatical Catalan example in (i).
Catalan does not have a future auxiliary go, as opposed to most other Romance lan-
guages, such as Spanish, as exemplified in (ii). (22b) is an example of the lexical verb
go in Catalan, which is interpreted as immediate future.
(i) *Demà vaig a fer una coca.
tomorrow go.1sg.prs.ind to make a cake
(ii) Mañana voy a hornear un bizcocho.
tomorrow go.1sg.prs.ind to bake a cake
‘Tomorrow I am going to bake a cake.’
18. The specification of these Vocabulary items is just illustrative; different and/or
additional features may be necessary.
19. I am grateful to an anonymous reviewer for helping me clarify and find the right
way to express the idea I had in mind with respect to the process of insertion of motion.
20. A reviewer suggests having a marked /b/ Vocabulary item specified for insertion
into a position structurally adjacent to T. Since 1/2pl forms would have undergone a
process of T deletion, the elsewhere /an/ would be correctly inserted (see Oltra-Massuet
1999, 2000). However, this possibility would also rule out /b/ insertion in the non-
standard A2 vares paradigm, for which I have proposed the T Impoverishment rule in
(17) above—apart from other structural changes.
21. See Bobaljik and Wurmbrand (chapter 11, this volume) for the relationship between
syntactic phase and morphological cycle in the analysis of suppletion in English com-
paratives and superlatives.
22. The suppletion contrast between 1/2pl and the rest of the forms in the present
tenses (indicative and subjunctive) is a pervasive phenomenon in the Romance lan-
guages and it has received ample attention. It has generally been analyzed as a case of
phonologically governed suppletion—for instance, with Maiden’s (1992, 2004b)
Romance N-pattern based on stress, or more recently Anderson’s (2008) analysis of
Surmiran, a Swiss Rumantsch variety, among many others. For reasons of space I
cannot discuss this very complex issue here, which is a topic in its own right. Let me
just mention that, whereas emphasis has been placed on deriving this suppletion pattern
on the basis of underlying stress facts and the presence of the theme vowel, it may be
worth approaching it from a nonphonologically oriented perspective, along the lines of
Oltra-Massuet 1999, 2000, as well as Oltra-Massuet and Arregi 2005, where the predic-
tive nature of stress in Catalan and Spanish verbs is shown to derive from a morpho-
syntactic analysis of the verbal forms.
2
The reconstruction of the grammar of word accentuation in Proto-Indo-Euro-
pean (PIE) has long been a central topic in historical linguistics, as well as the
focus of a number of studies within generative phonology of the daughter
languages that preserve relicts of the anterior system (Halle and Kiparsky
1977; Halle and Vergnaud 1987). Within traditional historical linguistics a
particular reconstruction of PIE accentuation, based principally on the work
of Warren Cowgill, Jochem Schindler, and Helmut Rix from the mid-1970s
onward (e.g., Schindler 1972, 1975a, 1975b; Rix et al. 2001), has been accepted
as a standard working hypothesis in much current research. Evidence for this
reconstruction comes partly from the accentual systems of certain attested
Indo-European languages (Vedic Sanskrit, Russian, Lithuanian, Greek);
reflexes of the pervasive pattern of vowel alternations (traditionally known as
grades), which was partly correlated with accent position, especially in Ana-
tolian, Greek, and Indo-Iranian; and the effects of accent position on obstruent
voicing in Proto-Germanic (Verner’s law) and on pitch-accent types in the
Baltic languages. The Schindler-Rix reconstruction is the basis of the analysis
to be presented here; in particular I will follow the recent detailed presentation
of Ringe 2006, from which the majority of the data has been taken; see also
Fortson 2010 for a basic overview of the reconstruction of PIE and its
accentuation.
Halle (1997b) presents a preliminary analysis of the Schindler-Rix recon-
struction within Simplified Bracketed Grid Theory (SBGT, Idsardi 1992). The
present chapter is intended to supplement this line of research and to widen
the scope of discussion to include the role of cyclic and noncyclic phonology
in producing the accent classes of derived stems in PIE.
In addition, I depart from earlier studies in a number of details. First,
although “fixed” accent (“acrostatic” and “mesostatic”) stems emerge as a
pervasive class in later languages such as Russian and Lithuanian, they are
understood here to be relatively marked in comparison with the older stem
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in
Proto-Indo-European Accentuation
Rolf Noyer
22 Chapter 2
type in which the position of accent vacillates between two adjacent syllables
(“hysterokinetic” and “proterokinetic”). Second, the underlyingly prespecified
metrical structure of PIE morphemes includes not only left boundaries of
metrical constituents (“feet”), as in Halle 1997b, but also right-constituent
boundaries, which produce a new type of “back-accenting” behavior. Third,
following ideas introduced in Halle 1998 in the analysis of English stress, I
make crucial use of the premise that certain morphemes may fail to project
metrical grid marks, and thus be invisible to metrical computations; this invis-
ibility is distinct from ordinary “extrametricality” in which peripheral elements
remain external to metrical constituents, although still metrically visible.
2.1 Halle and Vergnaud’s Basic Accentuation Principle
In their surface form, words in Proto-Indo-European (PIE) are hypothesized
to have contained a single accented syllable, where accent was phonetically
implemented as a high tone—for example, *dh
ugh2te
ˉ
´r ‘daughter’, *ék̂u
ˆ
os
‘horse’, *snusós ‘daughter-in-law’, *sóh2u
ˆ
l
˚
‘sun’. Although the position of
accent in a word is often described as “free”—as if entirely an arbitrary prop-
erty of a word’s inflectional “paradigm”—it is in fact derivable from a com-
bination of the underlying properties of the word’s root and affixes and a
system of general phonological rules.
Halle and Vergnaud 1987, and later Halle 1997b, propose a Basic Accentua-
tion Principle (BAP) for PIE, based on an analysis of Russian, Vedic Sanskrit,
and Lithuanian, which are argued to preserve the essential character of the
historically anterior system.
(1) Basic Accentuation Principle
a. In underlying representation, stems and affixes are either accented or
unaccented.
b. Leftmost: Stress falls on the leftmost accented syllable if any.
c. Default initial: Otherwise stress falls on the initial syllable.
In the modern Russian words in (2), for example, an underlyingly unaccented
stem such as skovorod- ‘frying pan’ contrasts with an underlyingly accented
stem such as kómnat- ‘room’ when an accented suffix such as nom.sg -á is
added (underlying accent is indicated by underlining):
(2) a. skovorod-á / skóvorod-y ‘frying pan’ nom.sg/gen.sg
b. kómnat-a / kómnat-y ‘room’ nom.sg/gen.sg
In skovorodá the suffix is the leftmost underlying accent (it is the only one),
and thus has surface accent. In the gen.sg skóvorody, however, neither the
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 23
stem nor the suffix -y has an underlying accent; in such cases accent falls by
default on the initial syllable of the word. In contrast, in kómnat- surface accent
remains fixed on the initial syllable irrespective of the accentuation of the
suffix, since the underlying accent of the stem will always be to the left of any
suffixal accent.
2.2 Proto-Indo-European Accent Patterns
Certain aspects of the Russian pattern reviewed above have clear parallels in
PIE. As in Russian, certain PIE case-number endings (traditionally called
desinences) attract stress whereas others do not. The unaccented desinences
occur in the direct cases (nominative, vocative, and accusative) and the
accented desinences in the oblique cases (instrumental, dative, ablative, geni-
tive, and locative).
In addition, typically but not always, unaccented syllables reduce to “zero
grade”—that is, if they contain a nonhigh vowel e o a it will be deleted. Alter-
nations between o ~ e and ē ~ e are also observed in various contexts.
The examples in (3) contrast the behavior of an accented stem
*nókw
t-/*nékw
t- ‘night’ with that of an unaccented stem *léi-mon-/*li-mn-
‘lake’. (Note that the locative desinence, which at least in early PIE is -Ø,
behaves like an accented desinence, as opposed to the vocative -Ø, which is
unaccented.)
(3) sg.nom *nókw
t-s *léi-mon-s (→ *léimō)
voc *nókw
t-Ø *léi-mon-Ø
acc *nókw
t-m
˚
*léi-mon-m
˚
dat *nékw
t-ei *li-mn-éi
loc *nékw
t-Ø *li-mén-Ø
dual direct *nókw
t-h1e *léi-mon-h1e
pl.nom/voc *nókw
t-es *léi-mon-es
loc *nékw
t-su *li-mn
˚
-sú
In the traditional nomenclature of PIE accentology, an accented stem such as
*nókw
t-/*nékw
t-, with accent fixed on the initial syllable, is called acrostatic,
whereas an unaccented stem such as *lei-mon-/*li-mn- is called amphikinetic.
The locative singular forms in -Ø, although apparently exceptional, are not: if
surface accent is generated on the zero desinence it is automatically retracted
to the preceding syllable. It should be clear, then, that the acrostatic and
amphikinetic patterns conform to the BAP and require no further discussion.
In addition to these two accent-ablaut patterns, however, the Schindler-Rix
system recognizes three other basic types: mesostatic, hysterokinetic, and
24 Chapter 2
proterokinetic. These patterns are conventionally schematized using a morpho-
logical analysis, due originally to Benveniste, that divides the word into a Root,
a Suffix, and an Ending (or Desinence): R + S + E:
(4) Unaccented Accented Null Example
ending ending loc.sg stem
a. Acrostatic Ŕ+S+E Ŕ+S+E Ŕ+S+Ø *nókw
t-/*nékw
t-
‘night’
b. Amphikinetic Ŕ+S+E R+S+É R+Ś+Ø *léi-mon-/*li-mn-
‘lake’
c. Mesostatic R+Ś+E R+Ś+E R+Ś+Ø *snus-ó-
‘daughter-in-law’
d. Hysterokinetic R+Ś+E R+S+É R+Ś+Ø *dh
ug-h2tér/-h2tr-
‘daughter’
e. Proterokinetic Ŕ+S+E R+Ś+E R+Ś+Ø *mén-ti-/*mn
˚
-téi-
‘thought’
The mesostatic pattern has fixed accent on the suffix; this leads naturally to
an analysis where in such stems the root has no underlying accent but the
suffix does, and thus surface accent remains fixed on the suffix regardless of
the desinence. The hysterokinetic and proterokinetic types, however, elude an
immediate analysis within the terms presented thus far.
Although various stipulations could in principle be adopted to generate these
two additional patterns, the approach taken here aims to meet the following
criteria of explanatory adequacy. First, whatever grammar is reconstructed for
PIE should not be sui generis. That is, a reconstructed PIE grammar should
be no different in principle from a grammar of a currently spoken language;1
more specifically, its system of accentuation should be consistent with the
expectations of metrical phonological theory and expressible through the rep-
resentational primes and normal computational mechanisms of that theory.
Second, the analysis must not only derive the surface position of accent in
individual words, but also show how these properties arise through the com-
bination of underlying specifications on morphemes and a system of general
rules. In particular, it will not be sufficient simply to assert that a particular
stem (= R + S) has a particular pattern of accentual behavior, but rather it must
also be shown how the derivational (stem-producing) morphology itself gener-
ates the range of accent classes from the underlying properties of the pieces
that compose these stems. Finally, the proposed grammar must generate (to
some reasonable approximation) only those surface patterns that are exhibited
in the data, and exclude unobserved patterns by making them simply ungener-
able in the first place.
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 25
Before turning to an analysis of the hysterokinetic and proterokinetic
types, I will first introduce the formal theory of metrical phonology to be
employed.
2.3 Simplified Bracketed Grid Theory
Idsardi’s (1992) Simplified Bracketed Grid Theory (SBGT) of metrical pho-
nology provides a useful starting point for the formal analysis of PIE accentua-
tion because it implements certain key properties of the system of Russian
accentuation in a direct and appealing way. As in many prior analyses of
“irregular” stress, Idsardi encodes the morpheme-specific property of underly-
ing accent through prespecification of metrical structure, in particular through
a left-constituent boundary (parenthesis) prespecified to the left of the line 0
grid mark projected by the “accented” vowel. In addition, an Edge Marking
Rule places a right parenthesis at the end of line 0. Grids representing the
Russian examples in (2) are shown below:
(5) (x (x
x x x x) x x x (x)
a. skóvorod-y b. skovorod-á ‘frying pan’ gen.sg/nom.pl
x
x (x x
c. (x x x) d. (x x (x)
kómnat-y kómnat-a ‘room’ gen.sg/nom.pl
SBGT crucially defines a metrical constituent (“foot”) as an unbroken sequence
of grid marks either to the left of a right parenthesis or to the right of a left
parenthesis. In (5a) skóvorody, the line 0 marks compose a constituent by
virtue of the final right parenthesis; no parenthesis matching is necessary. By
hypothesis constituents on line 0 are left-headed in Russian, so the insertion
of the final right parenthesis generates initial accent in words containing no
accented morphemes. In (5b) skovorodá, the “accented” property of the suffix
is encoded through prespecification of ( to the left of the grid mark projected
by -a. In consequence there is only one constituent in the word, consisting of
the final syllable alone; the leftmost grid mark—indeed, the only mark—in
this constituent is thus its head, and receives surface accent. In (5d) kómnata,
two constituents end up being generated on line 0; in such cases the head of
the leftmost constituent receives surface stress. Formally this is obtained by
construction a left-headed constituent on line 1.
It is easily seen that the PIE examples in (6) are parallel to the Russian
ones in (5):
26 Chapter 2
(6) (x (x
x x x) x x (x)
a. léi-mon-es li-mn-éi Amphikinetic: ‘lake’ nom.pl/dat.sg
(x (x
(x x) (x (x)
b. nókw
t-es nékw
t-ei Acrostatic: ‘night’ nom.pl/dat.sg
The PIE locative singular null affix does not project a grid mark but still has
a prespecified ( :
(7) (x (.) x x (.)
nékw
t-Ø ‘night’ loc.sg. li-món-Ø ‘lake’ loc.sg
The retraction of accent onto the final syllable in li-món-Ø ‘lake’ loc.sg has
an exact formal parallel in the postaccenting stems in Russian, which, in
Idsardi’s approach, have a prespecified left parenthesis ( to the right of their
rightmost grid mark. As shown in (8), if the suffix surfaces as Ø, stress appears
on the stem-final syllable in a postaccenting stem such as karanda∫- ‘pencil’,
by virtue of a Retraction Rule (9):
(8) x x x ( x) x x x( .) → x x (x .)
karanda∫-ý karanda∫-Ø karandá∫
‘pencil’ gen.sg ‘pencil’ nom.sg
(9) Retraction: x (. → (x .
2.4 Hysterokinetic and Mesostatic Stems
With these formal tools in mind, we can now approach an analysis of the
hysterokinetic and mesostatic stems, examples of which are shown in (10):
(10) Hysterokinetic Mesostatic
sg.nom *dh
ug-h2tér-s → *dh
ugh2te
ˉ
´r *snus-ó-s
acc *dh
ug-h2tér-m
˚
*snus-ó-m
dat *dh
ug-h2tr-éi *snus-ó-ei
loc *dh
ug-h2tér-Ø *snus-ó-i
pl.nom/voc *dh
ug-h2tér-es *snus-ó-es
Descriptively, a hysterokinetic stem such as *dh
ug-h2tér-/-h2tr- ‘daughter’ has
surface accent on an underlyingly accented desinence (R + S + É), as in dat.sg
*dh
ug-h2tr-éi. This seems to suggest that a hysterokinetic stem is underlyingly
unaccented. Nevertheless, when the desinence is also underlyingly unaccented,
as in nom.pl*dh
ug-h2tér-es, surface accent does not recede to the initial syl-
lable as one would expect for an unaccented stem like *lei-mon-/*li-mn- (cf.
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 27
6a), but rather appears on the suffix (R + Ś + E). Supposing instead, then, that
the suffix here is underlyingly accented, the following metrical structures will
be derived on line 0:
(11) x (x x) x (x (x
dh
ug-h2tér-es dh
ug-h2tr-éi ‘daughter’ nom.pl/dat.sg
For surface accent to appear on the final syllable in *dh
ug-h2tr-éi, PIE requires
a rule of Stress Clash Resolution (SCR) in (12) which deletes the accent of
the first of two consecutive accented morphemes, as shown in (13).2
(12) Stress Clash Resolution
(x (x → x (x
(13) x (x (x) x x (x)
dh
ug-h2tr-éi → dh
ug-h2tr-éi ‘daughter’ dat.sg
However, although SCR successfully derives the hysterokinetic pattern, it
introduces a number of problems elsewhere. For example, it would appear to
make it impossible to derive even the pattern of a monosyllabic accented
stem such as *nókw
t-/*nékw
t- ‘night’ where the root’s accent would incorrectly
be deleted before an accented ending such as dat.sg *-éi, giving incorrect
**nekw
-t-éi (14a). Likewise a mesostatic stem such as *snus-ó- will also
incorrectly yield its underlying accent to that of a following suffix, giving
**snus-o-éi instead of *snus-ó-ei (14b):
(14) (x (x) x (x)
a. nekw
-t-ei → **nekw
-t-éi
x (x(x) x x(x)
b. snus-o-ei → **snus-o-éi
In fact, unless *snus-ó- and *dh
ug-h2tér-/-h2tr- have a distinct metrical pre-
specification—compare (14b) and (13)—they cannot possibly have distinct
metrical behaviors. The question then amounts to which of them has a
different or more complex structure. What I will suggest here is that the
anomaly lies not, in fact, with the hysterokinetic type, but rather with the
acrostatic and mesostatic types, which fail to undergo SCR (12). This is
the first respect in which the solution offered here departs significantly from
previous approaches, which have taken the fixed accent types to be as unex-
ceptional in PIE as they are in, say, Russian or Lithuanian. We will see,
however, that this reorientation of perspective is not only perfectly consistent
with the essential tenor of Idsardi’s analysis of Russian, but in addition affords
the possibility of extending it to the full range of complex patterns observed
in PIE.
28 Chapter 2
Specifically, I propose that instead of having a prespecified left parenthesis
(, acrostatic stems in fact are prespecified with a right parenthesis ) to the right
of their initial, accented syllable. Thus the first syllable of the word must end
a metrical constituent; this constituent will always be first in the word, and so
surface accent will always be initial. The difference between acrostatic
*nékw
t-ei ‘night’ dat.sg (15a) and hysterokinetic *dh
ug-h2tr-éi ‘daughter’
dat.sg (15b) is illustrated below:
(15) (x
x) (x)
a. nékw
t-ei
(x
x (x (x) x x (x)
b. dh
ug-h2tr-éi → dh
ug-h2tr-éi
Crucially the representation in (15a) will now not meet the structural descrip-
tion of SCR (12), since the rule makes reference to two left parentheses, and
only one is present.
Whereas a morpheme such as dat.sg *-ei, whose left edge is prespecified
with a left parenthesis, places accent at its left edge, a morpheme such as
*nókw
t-/*nékw
t-, whose right edge is prespecified with a right parenthesis,
instead positions accent as far to the left as possible (assuming, of course,
left-headed constituents on line 1). To distinguish such morphemes from ordi-
nary “accented” morphemes, here I will refer to this type of morpheme as
back-accenting.
To derive the mesostatic snus-ó-, it is not sufficient to make the suffix simply
back-accenting, since this will incorrectly force accent to the initial syllable
as shown in (16a). Instead a type of prespecification is required that is not only
immune to SCR (12), like the back-accenting (acrostatic) type, but that also
fixes stress at a certain noninitial location, like an ordinary accented desinence.
This behavior can be derived provided that the affected syllable is prespecified
with both ) and ( on line 0, as shown in (16b):
(16) (x (x (x x
x x) x x)x) x x) (x)
a. snus-o- snús-o-es **snús-o-ei Incorrect
(x x (x x
x (x) x (x)(x) x(x)(x)
b. snus-o- snus-ó-ei snus-ó-ei Correct
This medial fixed accent simply results from the simultaneous presence of two
independently necessary prespecifications: (forward-)accenting, by virtue of a
left parenthesis (, and back-accenting by virtue of a right parenthesis ).3
Note
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 29
again that *snus-ó-ei, like *nékw
t-ei, does not meet the structural description
of SCR (12) owing to the right parenthesis in its prespecified structure.
Grids representing the four accent types analyzed so far are now shown
below, first with an unaccented suffix (nom.pl -es) in (17a) and then with an
accented suffix (dat.sg *-ei) in (17b):
(17) Acrostatic Amphikinetic Mesostatic Hysterokinetic
x) x) x x x) x (x)x) x (x x)
a. nókw
t-es léi-mon-es snus-ó-es dh
ug-h2tér-es
x) (x) x x(x) x (x) (x) x [x (x)
b. nékw
t-ei li-mn-éi snus-ó-ei dh
ug-h2tr-éi
It is easily verified that only the grid for *dh
ug-h2tr-éi meets the structural
description of SCR (12) since in no other instance does line 0 contain precisely
(x (x. The left parenthesis deleted by SCR in *dh
ug-h2tr-éi is indicated with a
square bracket in (17b).
2.5 Proterokinetic Stems
I turn now to the proterokinetic stems, which present a greater analytic chal-
lenge. Three examples are provided below:
(18) ‘widow’ ‘thin’ masc ‘thin’ fem
sg.nom *h1u
ˆ
idh
-éu-h2-Ø *ténh2-u-s *tn
˚
h2-éu
ˆ
-ih2-Ø
dat *h1u
ˆ
idh
-u
ˆ
-éh2-ei *tn
˚
h2-éu
ˆ
-ei *tn
˚
h2-u-i
ˆ
éh2-ei
pl.nom/voc *h1u
ˆ
idh
-éu-h2-es *ténh2-eu-es *tn
˚
h2-éu
ˆ
-ih2-es
loc *h1u
ˆ
idh
-u
ˆ
-éh2-su *tn
˚
h2-ú-su *tn
˚
h2-u-i
ˆ
éh2-su
Surface accent falls on the syllable before an underlyingly accented ending,
as in *tn
˚
h2-u-i
ˆ
éh2-ei ‘thin’ fem dat.sg, but on the syllable before the syllable
before an underlyingly unaccented ending, as in *tn
˚
h2-éu
ˆ
-ih2-es ‘thin’
fem-nom.pl. It is important to notice that in the latter case, surface accent
does not in fact recede to the initial syllable, as in Russian skóvorod-y (5a),
but instead appears on the syllable nucleus of the third-to-last morpheme.
The proterokinetic pattern begins to make sense once it is compared with
the hysterokinetic pattern. Specifically, the alternation of accent position in the
proterokinetic type is identical to that of the hysterokinetic type, except that
the surface accent is one syllable further to the left:
(19) ‘thin’ masc ‘daughter’
sg.nom *ténh2-u-s *dh
ug-h2tér-s (→ *dh
ugh2te
ˉ
´r)
dat *tn̊h2-éu
ˆ
-ei *dh
ug-h2tr-éi
pl.nom/voc *ténh2-eu
ˆ
-es *dh
ug-h2tér-es
loc *tn̊h2-ú-su *dh
ug-h2tr
˚
-sú
30 Chapter 2
It is also significant that in the proterokinetic stems stress never falls on the
final syllable, and this suggests that the final syllable is metrically invisible.
The analysis I present will capitalize on both these observations.
Phenomena in which peripheral elements are immune to or excluded from
phonological computations (“extrametricality”) are of course quite common.
Beyond this, however, Halle (1998) noted words in English in which stress
appears on the antepenultimate syllable even though the penult is heavy:
(20) (x) x . x (x) x (x) x . x(x) x
Lómbardy vs. Lombárdi Wáshington vs. malínger
Halle proposed that these words have suffixes (such as -y, -ton) that are metri-
cally invisible: they simply do not project any line 0 grid mark. Crucially, this
metrical invisibility is not the same as ordinary extrametricality, as seen in
Lombárdi or malínger; the penult in Lómbardy and Wáshington is also external
to any metrical constituent (“extrametrical” in a different sense), for if it were
not, it would have attracted stress, as in bambóo, for example.
For present purposes the importance of Halle’s analysis is that it draws a distinc-
tion between metrically inert elements that are invisible to the grid, and therefore
cannot figure in metrical calculations, versus those that are visible, but, being
peripheral in a certain domain, are still excluded from metrical constituents.
With this distinction in mind we can now begin to make sense of the protero-
kinetic pattern. Specifically, I propose that proterokinetic stems are derived by
cyclic, accented suffixes that have the property of preventing the final syllable
in the domain from projecting to the grid. Formally this is obtained by having
these suffixes associated with a rule of Grid Mark Deletion:
(21) Grid Mark Deletion
x] → .]
It will also be necessary to treat Retraction as a cyclic (as well as a noncyclic)
rule.
The mechanics of this proposal are best illustrated through derivations.
Consider first what occurs on the cycle introduced by a proterokinetic suffix
such as *-(e)u- or *-i(e)h2-.4
(22) a. [tenh2-eu]- b. [[tenh2-eu]-ieh2]-
x (x x (x Cycle on -eu-
x (. x (. Grid Mark Deletion (21)
(x . (x . Retraction (9)
x x (x Cycle on *-i(e)h2- (Stress Erasure)
x x (. Grid Mark Deletion (21)
x (x . Retraction (9)
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 31
The derivations for (22a) and (22b) are identical on the first cycle. Grid Mark
Deletion occurs, triggered by the proterokinetic suffix *-(e)u-, followed by
cyclic Retraction. The output is a stem accented one syllable before *-(e)u-;
that is, on the Root. In (22b) a second cycle on *-i(e)h2- occurs: Stress Erasure
removes metrical structure created on the first cycle and the same steps are
repeated to give a stem accented on the syllable before *-i(e)h2-, namely
*-(e)u-.
The stems created by the cyclic phonology are then inputs to the noncyclic
phonology in the domain created by the desinences. The derivations in (23)
show the behavior of *t(e)nh2-(e)u- in the context of an unaccented suffix
(nom.pl *-es) and an accented suffix (dat.sg *-ei):
(23) a. tenh2-eu-es b. tenh2-eu-ei
(x x x (x x (x Noncyclic
(x x x) (x x (x) End Rule Right
(x x .) (x x (.) Grid Mark Deletion (21)
n/a (x (x .) Retraction (9)
n/a x (x .) SCR (12)
*ténh2-eu-es *tn
˚
h2-éu-ei
At the beginning of the noncyclic phonology, projection of grid marks occurs
again, at which point the suffix *-(e)u- reprojects a grid mark, and, since this
mark is no longer final in its domain, it is not subject to Grid Mark Deletion;
instead the final syllable’s grid mark is deleted. In (23b) Retraction applies;
this then feeds SCR, which in turn deaccentuates the Root, leaving surface
accent on *-(e)u-.5
For descriptive convenience I will call these proterokinetic suffixes extra-
metricalizing and notate them with the diacritic [EM]. A summary of the
underlying properties of the metrical grids of stems five accent types is shown
in (24).6
(The reader may also find it useful to consult the additional list in
(34) and (35) at the end of the chapter:)
(24) x)
a. Acrostatic nókw
t-
x x
b. Amphikinetic lei-mon-
x (x)
c. Mesostatic snus-o-
x (x
d. Hysterokinetic dh
ug-h2ter-
x (x
e. Proterokinetic tenh2-eu[EM]-
32 Chapter 2
2.6 Putting the Pieces Together: Stem Derivation and Accent Class
Comparatively little attention has been given to how the accent class of a stem
results from the contribution of the underlyingly specified properties of its
parts, but some observations commonly encountered in the literature are given
here:
(25) a. Amphikinetic stems: *-ios- elative adjectives (“unusually X”);
zero-derived neuter collectives of stems in *-m(e)n-
b. Hysterokinetic stems: nouns with Suffix *-h2t(é)r-; active participles
in *-(ó)nt-
c. Proterokinetic stems: nominalizations in *-t(é)u- and *-t(é)i-; neuter
nouns in *-(é)n/r-, *-(é)u-, and *-(é)i-; adjectives in *-(é)u-; derived
feminine adjectives in *i
ˆ
(é)h2-
d. Mesostatic stems: verbal adjectives in *-tó-, *-nó-, *-wó-;
imperfectives in*-sk̆é-
In all the cases in (25) it is the suffix that determines the accent class of the
stem; the root, on the other hand, appears to make no contribution aside from
selecting the specific affix allomorph. This fact emerges as a natural conse-
quence of the assumption of the analysis presented here. Consider (26):
(26) Unaccented root Accented root
Suffix or cyclic suffix and noncyclic suffix
a. x Amphikinetic Acrostatic
b. (x Hysterokinetic Acrostatic
c. (x[EM] Proterokinetic7
Acrostatic
d. (x) Mesostatic Acrostatic
The accent class that will be derived for a stem (R+S) depends on three prop-
erties: (i) the accentuation (i.e., metrical prespecification) of the Root; (ii) the
metrical prespecification of the Suffix; and (iii) whether the Suffix is cyclic or
noncyclic. If the Suffix is noncyclic, it will not trigger Stress Erasure and so
will never be able to override the accent of an accented Root; thus the right
column in (26) shows that an accented Root and noncyclic Suffix will always
give an acrostatic stem. More interesting for our purposes is the left-hand
column, which shows the result when either the Root has no underlying accent
(prespecified structure) or if the Suffix is cyclic, in which case Stress Erasure
will obliterate any metrical prespecification present on the Root.
For example, amphikinetic collective/abstract neuter nouns, such as *séh1-
mon/men- ‘seed stuff’ (27), can be derived by zero affixation to a proteroki-
netic neuter stem denoting an individual, such as *séh1-mn
˚
/*sh2-mén- ‘(a)
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 33
seed’ (28). On the present analysis the change in accent class arises because
the collective/abstract suffix -Ø is both cyclic and unaccented. Assuming
that the End Rule Right and line 1 constituent construction are not cyclic
rules, a cyclic unaccented suffix will automatically create an unaccented
stem:8
(27) séh1-mn[EM]-Ø seh1-men[EM]-ei → seh2-mén-ei
(x x .) (x x (.) x (x .)
*séh1-men *sh2-mén-ei
‘(a) seed’ nom.sg ‘(a) seed’ dat.sg
(28) [[séh1-men[EM]]-Ø]-Ø] [[seh1-men[EM]]-Ø]-ei]
(x . (x . Cycle on -men-
x x . x x . Cycle on -Øcoll
x x . .) x x . (x) Noncyclic
*séh1-mon → *séh1mō *sh1-mn-éi
‘seed stuff’ nom.sg ‘seed stuff’ dat.sg
2.7 Additional Derived Accent Types
In addition to suffixes that create derived stems belonging to the accent classes
in (26), there are other suffixes in PIE that create acrostatic stems (with fixed
initial accent), crucially irrespective of the accentuation of the base. One such
derivation occurs for many verbal roots with imperfective Aktionsart that have
a perfective stem with the suffix *-s-, traditionally called the “sigmatic aorist”
stem. These derived perfective stems invariably have fixed root stress with
lengthened grade allomorph (*ē) vowel alternating with (*e). For example,
the imperfective stem *kél- ~ *kl
˚
- ‘be driving on’ forms a derived perfective
*ke
ˉ
´l-s- ~ *kél-s- ‘drove on’. Whereas *kél- ~ *kl
˚
- is amphikinetic (29a), with
surface accent alternating between the initial syllable (with an unaccented
singular desinence such as *-mi) and the final syllable (with an accented plural
desinence such as *-te), *ke
ˉ
´l-s- ~ *kél-s- is acrostatic, with fixed initial stress
(29b):
(29) a. *kél-mi ‘I am driving on’; *kl
˚
-té ‘you (pl) are driving on’
b. *ke
ˉ
´l-s-m
˚
‘I drove on’; *kél-s-te ‘you (pl) drove on’
The introduction of the back-accenting (right-parenthesis) prespecification for
acrostatic stems in section 2.4 now makes possible a completely straightfor-
ward analysis of this type: the suffixes that create derived acrostatic stems are
both back-accenting and cyclic. As cyclic affixes, they will erase any accentual
properties of the base. As back-accenting, they force accent to the initial syl-
lable just as in acrostatic stems.
34 Chapter 2
(30) x x x)
kel- ‘be driving on’ ke
ˉ
´l-s- ‘drove on’
(x (x x
x x) x x) x)
kél-mi ‘I drive on’ ke
ˉ
´l-s-m
˚
‘I drove on’
(x (x x
x (x) x x)(x)
kl
˚
-té ‘you (pl) drive’ ke
ˉ
´l-s-te ‘you (pl) drove on’
In addition, we now predict that there should be another possible suffix type:
back-accenting and noncyclic. These suffixes should have a slightly different
behavior. Instead of erasing the accent of the base and moving accent to the
initial syllable, noncyclic back-accenting morphemes move accent to the initial
syllable only with unaccented bases, but leave accent where it is on accented
bases.
It turns out that this behavior is exactly that of the subjunctive suffix *-e/o-.
The indicative and subjunctive forms of the unaccented verb root stems *h1és-/
*h1s- ‘is’ and *gw
ém-/*gw
m- ‘took a step’ are illustrated in (31). In the left
column, in the indicative, the surface accent alternates, depending on whether
the agreement desinence is underlyingly unaccented (3sg) or accented (2pl),
showing that the root stems are unaccented. In the right column, in the sub-
junctive, accent is uniformly on the initially syllable.
(31) Indicative Subjunctive
3sg *h1és-ti *h1és-e-ti ‘is’
2pl *h1s-té *h1és-e-te ‘you (pl) are’
3sg *gw
ém-t → *gw
emd *gw
ém-e-ti ‘she/he took a step’
2pl *gw
m̊-té *gw
ém-e-te ‘you (pl) took a step’
In contrast, in (32) the stem is a derived imperfective *gw
m̊-sk̂é- formed with
the cyclic accented imperfective suffix *-sk̂é-, which makes a mesostatic stem
with accent fixed on *-sk̂é- irrespective of the accent of the desinence. In the
subjunctive forms on the right, the position of the accent does not change as
it it did in (31); rather, the accent remains fixed on *-sk̂é-.
(32) Indicative Subjunctive
3sg *gw
m
˚
-sk̂é-ti *gw
m
˚
-sk̂é-e-ti ‘she/he is stepping/going’
2pl *gw
m
˚
-sk̂é-te *gw
m
˚
-sk̂é-e-te ‘you (pl) are stepping/going’
Put more briefly, subjunctive *-e/o- causes unaccented stems to become acro-
static (33a–b), but accented stems are unchanged (33c–d):
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 35
(33) (x x
x x) x)
h1és-e-ti
a. ‘is’ subj
(x x
x x)(x)
h1és-e-te
b. ‘you (pl) are’ subj
x (x x
x (x)x) x
gw
m
˚
-sk̂é-e-ti
c. ‘is stepping’ subj
(x x x
x (x)x)(x
gw
m
˚
-sk̂é-e-te
d. ‘you (pl) are stepping’ subj
Because *-e/o- is noncyclic it does not affect the accent of the base to which
it attaches. As shown in (33c–d), if the base is accented, it remains so. If the
base is unaccented, however, the right parenthesis prespecified on *-e/o-
creates the right edge of a metrical constituent whose leftmost mark is the
initial syllable, which then carries surface accent. Crucially, this holds even
when the desinence is underlyingly accented, as in (33b).
2.8 Conclusion
Underlyingly accented and unaccented morphemes (syllables) are known from
PIE descendants that retain traces of the archaic system, such as Russian,
Lithuanian, and Vedic Sanskrit; following Idsardi 1992 it is normally assumed
that in these languages an accented morpheme is prespecified with a left
parenthesis in its metrical grid. Somewhat more complex patterns are observed
in PIE, however, and to derive them I have proposed two additional prespecifi-
cation types: back-accenting, which contains a right parenthesis, and accented
extrametricalizing, which has a left parenthesis and moreover deletes the final
grid mark in its domain. The traditional “fixed” accent types such as the acro-
static and mesostatic patterns were shown to result from a combination of
“accented” and “back-accenting” prespecification; the hysterokinetic type
results from a general rule of Stress Clash Resolution and is proposed to be
relatively unmarked in PIE. Finally, cyclic and noncyclic modes of derivation
not only ensure the proper surface distribution of accent in morphologically
complex stems but also explain how (and why) the accent class of a stem is
determined by properties of its root morpheme and its suffix or suffixes.
To summarize, a list of the different root and suffix types with examples of
each is given in (34) and (35):
36 Chapter 2
(34) Cyclic
a. x Unaccented Abstract/collective neuter *-Ø:
amphikinetic
b. (x Accented Participial *-ónt-/*-nt-: hysterokinetic
c. x) Back-accenting Perfective *-s-: derived acrostatic
d. (x) Fixed accenting Imperfective *-sk̂é-: derived mesostatic
e. (x[EM] Extrametricalizing Proterokinetic stem suffixes (e.g., *-(é)u-)
(35) Noncyclic
a. x Unaccented Direct case desinences, singular verb
agreement; unaccented roots
b. (x Accented Oblique case desinences, plural verb
agreement
c. x) Back-accenting Subjunctive *-e/o-; accented roots9
d. (x) Fixed accenting Simple mesostatic stems with theme
*-ó- (e.g., snusós)
Morphemes as in (34) and (35) combine to correctly produce stems with all
the standard PIE accent classes. But a more important result—and a singular
advantage of the present proposal—is that these accent classes are the only
ones that can be generated from these underlying forms. From this it becomes
clear that explicit theoretical analysis does not merely respond to historical
data obtained through conventional descriptive techniques, but is in fact essen-
tial for understanding the nature of reconstructed grammatical systems.
Notes
1. As an anonymous reviewer points out, this holds, of course, only if reconstructed PIE
does indeed represent the grammar of some idealized speaker at some specific point in
time (i.e., to the extent that the different accent types under discussion can reasonably be
assumed to have been synchronically simultaneous), a nontrivial assumption.
2. Stress Clash Resolution processes are, of course, quite common crosslinguistically,
but more specifically, a rule similar to (12) in SBGT can be found, for example, in
Halle’s treatment of stress deletion under clash in words such eleméntary or compúlsory
in American English (Halle 1998, 558). Although secondary stress normally appears
on the suffixes -ary and -ory (cf. légendàry, ínventòry), there is no secondary stress in
posttonic position.
3. It is clear that acrostatic stems such as *nókw
t-/*nékw
t- could also be underlyingly
specified with both a right and a left parenthesis, although a single right parenthesis is
sufficient to derive the initial accent position.
4. I assume that the root is a noncyclic domain; in other words, stress rules do not
apply to the root domain on a zeroth cycle. As Halle and Kiparsky (1977) show for
Vedic Sanskrit, a stem whose last cyclic suffix is unaccented will surface with fixed
Phonological and Morphological Interaction in Proto-Indo-European Accentuation 37
initial accent. For Halle and Vergnaud (1987) this occurs because, effectively, the End
Rule Right (followed by left-headed line 1 constituent construction) applies cyclically,
creating a representation like that of léimones in (6a); any subsequent noncyclic suffixes
will then be powerless to move the accent off the stem-initial syllable. On these assump-
tions, if roots were cyclic domains, an unaccented root with no cyclic suffix would
produce an acrostatic stem with fixed initial accent—clearly an incorrect result. Nev-
ertheless, it is noteworthy that the Vedic pattern does not in principle require all metrical
rules to be cyclic: it is only End Rule Right (and line 1 constituent construction) that
must apply cyclically. As discussed in section 2.6, however, the present proposal is that
in PIE the End Rule Right applies only noncyclically. As a result, there is no compel-
ling evidence either for or against the hypothesis that roots are cyclic stress domains
in PIE.
5. An anonymous reviewer raises the important question of what defines the domain
for Grid Mark Deletion. For example, if a proterokinetic stem were to have two (or
more) noncyclic affixes, then the rule as stated would appear to incorrectly delete the
grid mark of the last one, instead of the first one. I am not aware of any data bearing
on this question, so for now I leave the issue open.
6. If, in principle, any type of suffix could carry the extrametricalizing diacritic, then
two additional types of extrametricalizing suffixes are predicted to occur: (i) noncyclic
and accented, which produces a surface pattern identical to the mesostatic type; and
(ii) unaccented, which, when noncyclic and attaching to an unaccented stem, or when
cyclic (irrespective of the accent of the stem), will give a pattern of initial accent with
an unaccented desinence but penultimate accent with an accented desinence. This
second pattern is not attested to my knowledge (but would only be distinguishable from
a normal proterokinetic pattern for stems of three syllables or more); thus we will
assume that the extrametricalizing type is always accented, for reasons yet to be
determined.
7. Or mesostatic, if simultaneously the suffix is noncyclic and the root is unaccented:
see note 6.
8. I assume that certain metrical rules apply cyclically, but that crucially the End Rule
Right does not, or else unaccented cyclic suffixes would produce stems with fixed
initial accent, as in Vedic (Halle and Kiparsky 1977), and sh1-mn-éi ‘seed stuff’
dat.sg would incorrectly surface with initial accent. The grammar proposed here for
PIE apparently represents a middle ground between the Vedic system (all metrical rules
are both cyclic and noncyclic) and the Lithuanian one (metrical rules are noncyclic
only), as analyzed by Halle and Vergnaud (1987).
9. Accented roots may also be of type (35d); see note 3.
3
3.1 Introduction
One of Morris Halle’s many lasting contributions to the study of morphology
is his elaboration of a principled relationship between morphology and syntax.
In particular, his work in Distributed Morphology argues that syntactic nodes
provide the domains within which morphological disjunctivity obtains (Halle
and Marantz 1993, 1994; Halle 1997a, inter alia). More specified Vocabulary
Items outrank less specified ones in the competition to spell out or discharge
the features of a given syntactic node. In the usual case, only one item is
inserted into a given node; in this case, all items competing for insertion are
in a disjunctive relationship. In some cases, however, the node may undergo
fission, allowing the additional insertion of a lower-ranked item to discharge
features not discharged by the first item inserted. The operation of fission
relaxes the strict disjunctivity among items competing for insertion into the
same node; it also allows disjunctive blocking to apply across traditional “posi-
tion classes.” Noyer (1992) refers to this phenomenon as discontinuous
bleeding.
Béjar (2003) points out that disjunctive blocking can also arise from the
syntactic operation Agree. In the simplest case, an agreeing head probes the
structurally closest matching constituent, blocking more distant constituents
from triggering agreement. English subject agreement works like this, always
probing the (underlined) highest argument in the clause:
(1) a. I am/*is the boss.
b. The boss is/*am me.
Béjar argues that agreement can be generalized (e.g., person, number), or
specified (e.g., first person, plural number). She postulates that generalized
agreement probes the closest matching constituent, as in (1), while specified
agreement has a broader reach: if the closest argument does not match the
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals
Martha McGinnis
40 Chapter 3
specified feature, the head can probe a second time.1
In one illustration of the
theory, Béjar argues that the person-marking prefixes on Georgian verbs arise
from specified [π [Participant]] agreement; see McGinnis 2008 for additional
arguments to this effect.
In this chapter, I demonstrate that an elusive interaction in Georgian inflec-
tion can be elegantly captured under a Distributed Morphology analysis that
combines Halle’s (1997a) theory of fission with Béjar’s theory of Agree. The
interaction in question is the disjunctivity among number-agreement suffixes
on Georgian verbs. A key instance of this interaction arises between plural -t
and the third-person plural Tense/Aspect/Mood (TAM) suffix, traditionally
called the “screeve marker.” The two suffixes occupy different positions, as
illustrated by (2), where the plural -t follows the TAM suffix, here -a.
(2) g-nax-a-t
2.dat-see-aor-pl
‘He/she saw you (pl).’
Nevertheless, double plural marking is impossible, even when the two plural
suffixes would be discharging different plural features, as in (3). The suffix
-es indicates a third-person plural subject (3a), but -t cannot discharge the
plural feature of a second-person object in (3b), even though it does so in (2).
I argue that this interaction arises from the nature of specified Agree. Follow-
ing Béjar 2003, I postulate that a Georgian clause has only one number-
agreement feature, which is specified as plural; thus, only a single plural
argument (here, the subject) can trigger number agreement on the verb.
(3) a. g-nax-es
2.dat-see-aor.3pl
‘They saw you (sg/pl).’
b. *g-nax-es-t
2.dat-see-aor.3pl-pl
‘They saw you (pl).’
The plural -t in (3b) also cannot show agreement with a plural TAM suffix,
if both suffixes in (3b) are taken to show agreement with the plural subject
(on the reading ‘They saw you (sg)’). I argue that this interaction arises
because the so-called TAM suffix and the plural -t actually both discharge the
features of the same node, via fission. If the plural feature is not discharged
by the TAM suffix, it fissions off from the TAM head and is discharged by -t;
if it is discharged by the TAM suffix, -t cannot be inserted.
In the next section I sketch an explicit theory of morphosyntactic features
based on Harley and Ritter 2002, and outline the main analysis in more detail.
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 41
Section 3.2.1 lays out the role of syntactic number agreement on T specified
for the plural feature [Group], as well as its interaction with clitic movement
of the first- and second-person pronouns. As I will show, number agreement
in Georgian is also affected by the application of an Impoverishment operation
to the [Group] feature of first-person dative plural pronouns. Vocabulary items
for the person-marking prefixes are provided as well. Section 3.2.2 describes
fission of the TAM node and provides vocabulary items for an illustrative
subset of the number-marking suffixes. Evidence for the proposed analysis is
provided in section 3.3. Section 3.3.1 argues that only one argument per clause
triggers number agreement, even though number marking may be specified in
either of two suffix positions. I demonstrate that the analysis outlined in
section 3.2 provides a straightforward account of a formerly mysterious inter-
action between plural -t and a third-person suffix -s, also discussed by Ander-
son (1984). Section 3.3.2 discusses an empirical challenge to the proposed
analysis—namely, clauses in which both a dative first-person plural argument
and a nominative plural argument appear to trigger number agreement. Drawing
on crosslinguistic evidence, I argue that dative first-person plurals in Georgian
are morphologically distinguished from their singular counterparts only by a
special collective first-person feature [Multispeaker], not by [Group], and that
therefore there are actually no forms showing [Group] agreement for more
than one argument.
3.2 The Analysis: Agree and Fission
Like Béjar (2003), I assume a slightly modified version of Harley and Ritter’s
(2002) geometry of privative morphosyntactic features. The relevant features are
illustrated in (4). Nothing in the analysis depends on assuming privative features:
I simply adopt this as the more restrictive hypothesis. Note that Harbour (chapter
8, this volume) argues in favor of a binary feature system instead.
(4) Referring expression (= Pronoun)
PERSON (π) NUMBER (#) CLASS
PARTICIPANT Group (Minimal)
Speaker (Addressee)
(Multispeaker)
The major organizing nodes are [Person], [Number], and [Class]. I have not
included details of the [Class] node, but it is associated with animacy (sen-
tience) and grammatical gender. First and second person both have the feature
42 Chapter 3
[Participant]. Crosslinguistically, [Speaker] is used for first person and
[Addressee] for second person; similarly, [Minimal] is used for singular
and [Group] for plural. However, I assume that the features [Addressee] and
[Minimal] are activated only in systems that have an inclusive/exclusive first-
person distinction, and a dual/plural number distinction, respectively. Since
this is not the case in Georgian, I assume that neither [Addressee] nor [Minimal]
is activated in this language; instead, second person and singular are repre-
sented by underspecified [Participant] and [#] nodes, which are interpreted by
contrast with their more specified [Speaker] and [Group] counterparts (McGin-
nis 2005). Third person is represented by an unspecified [π] node. In addition
to the features proposed by Harley and Ritter, I also postulate a special
“multiple-speaker” feature [Multispeaker], a dependent of [Speaker], which
can express first-person plural in some languages. See section 3.3.2 for more
discussion.
3.2.1 Agree: Specified Number Agreement on T
Following Béjar 2003, I postulate that number agreement on Georgian verbs
derives from a single uninterpretable [# [Group]] feature, specified on T. T
begins by probing the closest argument. If this argument (the subject) is plural,
T agrees with it, blocking number agreement with lower arguments, as seen
in (3), repeated here as (5a). If not, T probes a second time. In that case, if the
object is plural, T can agree with it, as seen in (2), repeated here as (5b).
Otherwise, the [Group] feature deletes from the [#] node, and no plural
marking appears (5c).2
(5) a. g-nax-es(*-t)
2.dat-see-aor.3pl
‘They saw you (sg/pl).’
b. g-nax-a-t
2.dat-see-aor-pl
‘She/he saw you (pl).’
c. g-nax-a
2.dat-see-aor
‘She/he saw you (sg).’
An additional clarification is in order. Béjar argues that a feature on a head
H can probe downward only once—namely, when H merges at the root of the
derivation. After that, as the tree extends, H probes upward.3
This characteristic
suggests a possible account of an additional restriction on number marking—
namely that, unlike participant (first- and second-person) objects, third-person
objects cannot trigger plural agreement, even when the subject is singular. (6a)
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 43
shows that the third-person plural object cannot trigger the third-person plural
TAM suffix shown in (6a); it also cannot trigger the default plural -t (6b). Only
an ambiguous form is possible, as in (6c).
(6) a. *v-nax-es
1-see-aor.3pl
‘I saw them.’
b. v-nax-e-t
1-see-aor.part-pl
*‘I saw them.’ (Fine on the readings ‘We saw him/her/it/them.’)
c. v-nax-e
1-see-aor.part
‘I saw him/her/it/them.’
This generalization holds even in clauses with a dative subject—either
subject-experiencer clauses, or those in perfect or pluperfect aspect. In clauses
with a nominative or ergative subject, the TAM suffix always agrees with the
subject, showing person agreement and third-person number agreement. On
the other hand, in clauses with a dative subject, the TAM suffix agrees in
person with the nominative object, but neither the TAM suffix nor the
plural -t shows number agreement with a third-person nominative object (Nash
1994, 169).
This distinction between third-person and participant objects arises for
syntactic reasons. Halle and Marantz (1993) argue that first- and second-
person arguments in Georgian are syntactic clitics, which move out of their
base positions, while third-person arguments remain in situ.4
I propose that
these clitics attach to T, allowing the [Group] feature on T to target them, as
in (5b). By contrast, a third-person object will remain below T, inaccessible
for agreement with it because T cannot probe downward a second time—hence
the ill-formedness of (6a).5
Default (here, phonologically null) number agree-
ment appears instead, as in (6c). I assume that the syntactic clitics are phono-
logically null and trigger agreement on v and T, following Béjar’s (2003)
analysis (see McGinnis 2008 for further evidence). If the clitics must move
through spec-vP on the way to T, I assume that they tuck in below the external
argument, so that it remains closer to T.6
The tree in (7) shows the key features of the proposed syntactic analysis.
The T head has both person- and number-agreement features, with the number
feature specified with [Group]. The person-agreement feature on T (which
manifests itself as person agreement on the TAM suffix) targets the closest
nominative or ergative argument, here the external argument, shown in spec-v.
The number-agreement feature first targets the closest argument, here the
44 Chapter 3
external argument; if this argument is plural, it checks the number-agreement
feature on T. Otherwise, the number-agreement feature can probe a second
time, this time upward to a first- or second-person object clitic, which for the
sake of concreteness I have shown undergoing clitic movement to spec-T.
(7) T
CL-pro T
T v
[#] [π] ExtArg v
[Group] v V
[π] tCL-pro V
[Part]
If both the subject and object are first- and second-person clitics, both will
move to specifiers ofT, assuming that multiple specifiers are possible (Chomsky
1995). It is plausible that third-person external arguments also move to spec-T,
although nothing in the proposed analysis hinges on this. I assume underlying
SOV order for Georgian, following Nash 1995.
The tree in (7) also shows person agreement on v, which is specified for the
feature [Participant]. Like the [Group] specification on T, this feature probes
downward once, then upward if there are no Participant internal arguments.
In other words, it agrees preferentially with a first- or second-person internal
argument, otherwise with a first- or second-person external argument. If there
are no first- or second-person arguments, the [Participant] feature deletes.
According to Béjar 2003, the [π] feature then agrees with a third-person
subject; this agreement is spelled out by a null default Vocabulary Item. See
Béjar 2003 and McGinnis 2008 for more extensive discussion of person agree-
ment in Georgian verbs.
In section 3.3.2, I argue that plurality in the Georgian dative first person is
expressed via person features, rather than number features (Ritter 1997; Harley
and Ritter 2002). Specifically, I propose that first-person plural in Georgian
has the person feature [Multispeaker], which necessarily co-occurs with the
number feature [Group]; but that, in the dative case, the [Group] specification
of first-person pronouns undergoes morphological deletion or Impoverishment
(Bonet 1991), as in (8). Thus, [Multispeaker] alone expresses number in dative
first person.7
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 45
(8) Pronoun [DAT] Pronoun [DAT]
π # ⇒ π #
PARTICIPANT Group PARTICIPANT
Speaker Speaker
Multispeaker Multispeaker
Assuming that the syntactic derivation proceeds phase by phase (Chomsky
2000, 2001), I propose that this Impoverishment operation occurs at the spell-
out of the vP phase—that is, after dative case is valued, but before number
agreement with T.8
Even though the [Group] node of dative first-person argu-
ments is deleted by Impoverishment, the argument itself remains accessible to
syntactic movement, such as the clitic movement in (7). After Impoverishment,
it lacks a [Group] feature to agree with the uninterpretable [Group] feature on
T, but its [π] features can still value the uninterpretable [π] feature on T.
The prefixal Vocabulary Items for the person agreement on v are listed in
(9).9
I assume that a dependent feature is inherently more specified (and thus
more highly ranked) than the feature it depends on—for example, (9a) is
ranked above (9b) because [Multispeaker] is a dependent of [Speaker]. (9c)
and (9d) are not ranked by Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity, also known as the Elsewhere
Condition (Kiparsky 1973; Anderson 1984), but in the proposed analysis, the
choice between them is decided by syntactic agreement, since v agrees with
only one argument. (9c) is inserted if v agrees with a second-person dative
argument, and (9d) if v agrees with a first-person nominative argument. Since
this agreement node does not undergo fission, only one of the items in (9) will
be inserted into it.
(9) a. [Multispkr, DAT] ↔ /gv-/ 1pl.dat
b. [Spkr, DAT] ↔ /m-/ 1sg.dat
c. [Part, DAT] ↔ /g-/ 2.dat
d. [Spkr] ↔ /v-/ 1sg.nom
e. [Part] ↔ Ø (or x- in env. ar ‘be’) 2.nom
f. elsewhere ↔ Ø 3
3.2.2 Fission: Interactions among Number-Marking Suffixes
The TAM (screeve) suffix on a Georgian verb reflects tense (aorist, present,
future), aspect (imperfect, perfect, pluperfect), mood (optative, imperative,
conditional), person agreement with the highest nominative or ergative argu-
ment, and the number agreement on T already described. I propose that the
syntactic heads bearing these features (e.g., C, T, Asp) fuse morphologically
46 Chapter 3
to form a single morphosyntactic node before Vocabulary Insertion. Suffixes
like those in (10) compete for insertion into this node. Georgian has an exten-
sive set of screeve suffixes (e.g., see Aronson 1990 for a detailed listing); the
following Vocabulary Items are for the aorist tense/aspect:
(10) a. /-es/ ↔ [Aorist, Group, Class] 3pl.aor
b. /-e/ ↔ [Aorist, Participant] 1/2.aor
c. /-a/ ↔ [Aorist] 3sg.aor
d. /-t/ ↔ [Group] [To be revised in (13c)] pl
Zwicky (1977) argues against the existence of a distinct third-person feature
(see also Noyer 1992; McGinnis 2004). In the feature geometry assumed here,
third person is represented by the absence of a [Participant] feature. To prevent
third-person plural suffixes (like the one in (10a)) from being inserted to indicate
agreement with first- or second-person plural arguments, I propose that these
suffixes are restricted to third person by the feature [Class]. Since animacy
distinctions are reported only in third person, I postulate that the [Class] node
is present only for third-person arguments (see Nevins 2002b for a similar
analysis of third-person agreement in Arabic).10
(10a) cannot discharge agree-
ment with a first- or second-person plural argument, since these lack the [Class]
feature; (10b) cannot discharge agreement with a third-person argument, since
this will lack the [Participant] feature. (10c) ranks below (10a) and (10b) by
Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity. If affixes are inserted from the stem outward (Bobaljik
2000; Embick 2010), we must conclude that (10c) also applies before (10d) (see
(5b)). This ordering is predicted if the interpretable features of a node are dis-
charged as soon as possible. Tense/Aspect/Mood features of the TAM node, such
as [Aorist], are interpretable, while phi-features such as [Group] are uninterpre-
table, and thus, by hypothesis, discharged later.
Note that under the proposed analysis, the plural -t discharges features of
the TAM node. Since this suffix follows the traditional screeve suffixes, rather
than being in complementary distribution with them, I postulate that the TAM
node is subject to fission. I assume that fission operates as described in Halle
1997a as well as González-Poot and McGinnis 2006: when the insertion of a
Vocabulary Item discharges some features of a node, the remaining features
fission off to a subsidiary node. Lower-ranked Vocabulary Items then compete
for insertion into this subsidiary node. An inserted item discharges features of
the subsidiary node, and any features still remaining to be discharged fission
off to a new subsidiary node. Evidence for a fission analysis of Georgian TAM
suffixes is presented in section 3.3.1. The effect of fission is illustrated in (11).
Third-person TAM suffixes in Georgian generally have a special plural form,
which discharges a [Group] feature associated with the highest nominative or
ergative third-person argument, as in (3a), repeated here as (11a). First- and
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 47
second-person TAM suffixes lack a number distinction, so [Group], if present,
fissions off to be realized as -t, as in (11b) (cf. (6b)).
(11) a. g-nax-es
2.dat-see-aor.3pl
‘They saw you (sg/pl).’
b. v-nax-e-t
1-see-aor.part-pl
‘We saw him/her/it/them.’
In section 3.3.1 I argue that another Vocabulary Item also competes for
insertion into the (fissioned) TAM suffix. This is a default number suffix -s,
illustrated in (12).11
(12) g-nax-o-s
2.dat-see-opt-#
‘. . . that he/she see you (sg)’
This -s occurs in the Present, Future, Conjunctive, and Optative. I hypothesize
that these TAM types share a feature, which restricts the distribution of -s. I
leave the investigation of this feature for future research; here I simply label
it as [FTAM]. The list of TAM Vocabulary Items below, used in the Optative
mood, includes the -s suffix (13e)12
.
(13) a. /-o/ ↔ [FTAM, Optative] opt
b. /-n/ ↔ [#, Group, Class] in env. [Optative] 3pl.opt
c. /-t/ ↔ [#, Group] [Revised from (10d)] pl
d. /-Ø/ ↔ [#] in env. [FTAM, Participant] 1/2sg.opt
e. /-s/ ↔ [#] in env. [FTAM] 3sg/default #
The Vocabulary entry for -t in (10d) has been revised in (13c) to include the
feature [#], which allows it to block the default number suffix -s. Since the
third-person plural item in (13b) also blocks -s, a [#] feature is included in this
item as well. I also postulate a null [Participant] suffix with the feature [#],
since -s is also blocked when the TAM node agrees in person with a Participant
argument. (13a) is correctly predicted to be inserted first if interpretable fea-
tures are discharged as soon as possible (cf. (10c), which unlike (13a) is
blocked by first- or second-person agreement); note that the interpretable
features of (13b,d,e) are contextual features only, which are not discharged by
inserting these items. The remaining items are inserted after (13a), and are
ranked by Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity. Again, feature discharge by intrinsic features
takes the leading role in the ranking of Vocabulary Items, so (13c) ranks above
(13d); however, contextual features also play a role, so (13d) ranks above
(13e).
48 Chapter 3
Armed with the theoretical tools sketched above, we can now illustrate the
operation of fission during Vocabulary Insertion into the TAM node. For
example, (14) shows the insertion of Vocabulary Items into the TAM node in
(12) g-nax-o-s. In (14a), the item /-o/ is inserted. Its FTAM features discharge
the corresponding features of the TAM node (indicated as struckthrough), and
the remaining features fission onto a subsidiary node, as shown in (14b). (14b)
also shows the insertion of /-s/, whose [#] feature discharges the [#] feature of
the fissioned TAM node. Presumably, the remaining feature [π] fissions onto
an additional subsidiary node; I postulate the insertion of a featureless null
default Vocabulary Item into this node, as shown in (14c).
(14) a. FTAM, Optative b. c.
# FTAM, Optative # FTAM, Optative
π π # π
/-o/ /-o/ /-s/ /-o/ /-s/ -Ø
FTAM, Optative FTAM, Optative # FTAM, Optative #
Note that the list of Vocabulary Items in (13) postulates that [FTAM] is merely
a contextual feature of -s; it is the optative suffix -o that actually discharges
[FTAM] from the TAM node. This assumption is crucial, since it ensures that
plural -t ranks above -s in the competition for insertion. As discussed in section
3.3.1, this analysis straightforwardly accounts for a heretofore puzzling com-
plementarity between -t and -s, illustrated in (15). The mechanism by which
-t blocks -s is shown in (16). In (16a), the optative suffix is inserted, as in
(14a). In (16), however, the TAM node agrees with a plural argument. The
plural suffix -t is inserted in (16b), since it discharges more features of the
node than -s does. The [#] feature is also discharged by -t, so -s cannot be
inserted; only the null default item can be (16c).
(15) g-nax-o-(*-s)-t(*-s)
2.dat-see-opt(*-#)-pl(*-#)
‘. . . that he/she see you (pl).’
(16) a.
FTAM, Optative
b. c.
#, plural
FTAM, Optative #, plural FTAM, Optative
π
π #, plural π
/-o/ /-o/ /-t/ /-o/ /-t/ -Ø
FTAM, Optative FTAM, Optative #, plural FTAM, Optative #, plural
The analysis proposed above has several key components: (i) syntactic
competition for agreement with an uninterpretable number feature on T, speci-
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 49
fied as plural; (ii) clitic movement of first- and second-person pronouns to TP;
(iii) encoding of first-person plural in Georgian via a collective first-person
feature, [Multispeaker], along with Impoverishment of the plural feature
[Group] from dative first-person arguments at the end of the vP phase; (iv)
morphological fusion of syntactic heads to form the TAM head, which is
subject to fission during Vocabulary Insertion; and (v) competition among
Vocabulary Items, with items ranked by Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity applying pref-
erentially to their intrinsic features, along with a requirement to discharge
interpretable features as soon as possible. The next section briefly compares
this analysis with some important alternatives.
3.3 Evidence for the Proposed Analysis
Although the analysis proposed here is framed within the theory of Distributed
Morphology and draws on previous DM analyses of Georgian agreement
(Halle and Marantz 1993; Béjar 2003), it also incorporates some insights from
Anderson’s (1984) analysis, framed within an Extended Word and Paradigm
approach, subsequently known as A-Morphous Morphology (Anderson 1992).
In section 3.3.1, I argue for an analysis of Georgian number-marking suf-
fixes that involves Béjar-style syntactic competition, along with morphological
competition among Vocabulary Items ranked by Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity and
inserted into positions corresponding to semantically coherent morphosyntac-
tic nodes. This analysis contrasts with Anderson’s, which relies on extrinsic
ordering of word-formation rules within arbitrary rule blocks. On the other
hand, the proposed analysis does adopt Anderson’s view that plural -t and the
number-agreement suffix -s occupy the same morphological domain as the
TAM (screeve) suffixes, and compete with them for morphological realization.
Thus, it differs from the proposals of Nash (1994) and Lomashvili and Harley
(2011), who associate the TAM suffixes and -t with distinct morphological
domains, corresponding to tense and agreement respectively.
In section 3.3.2, I argue that dative ‘me’ and ‘us’ in Georgian are distin-
guished via person, not number, and that Impoverishment of the [Group]
feature from a first-person dative argument (associated with gv-) prevents it
from licensing plural agreement (-t). This analysis also contrasts with Ander-
son’s, which seeks to capture the interaction between gv- and -t by applying
the Elsewhere Condition across word-formation rule blocks. However, it
adopts Anderson’s view that the person prefixes belong to a separate morpho-
logical domain from the number suffixes. It thus departs from Halle and
Marantz’s proposal that the plural feature underlying -t fissions off from the
person-marking prefix.
50 Chapter 3
3.3.1 Evidence for Specified Agree and Fission in Georgian Number Marking
Examples like those below provide evidence for the analysis presented in
section 3.2, that interactions among Georgian number suffixes arise from
syntactic competition for a single number-agreement node on T, which fissions
during Vocabulary Insertion. (2), repeated here as (17a), shows the unmarked
aorist suffix -a followed by plural -t, while (3b), repeated as (17b), shows the
third-person plural aorist suffix -es, which blocks -t. (18) shows the optative
mood, which has an overt TAM suffix -o and allows the default number-marker
-s, as shown in (12), repeated as (18a). However, plural -t blocks this -s, as
shown in (15), repeated as (18b).
(17) a. g-nax-a-t
2.dat-see-aor-pl
‘He/she saw you (pl).’
b. g-nax-es(*-t)
2.dat-see-aor.3pl(*-pl)
They saw you (sg/pl).’
(18) a. g-nax-o-s
2.dat-see-opt-#
‘. . . that he/she see you (sg)’
b. g-nax-o-(*-s)-t(*-s)
2.dat-see-opt(*-#)-pl(*-#)
‘. . . that he/she see you (pl)’
Anderson (1984) accounts for these blocking relations among -t, -s, and the
third-plural TAM suffixes by assigning them to the same word-formation rule
(WFR) block. WFRs in the same rule block are in complementary distribution,
so only one of these suffixes can appear in any given form. Like Distributed
Morphology, Anderson’s Extended Word and Paradigm (A-Morphous Mor-
phology) framework assumes that morphology is inserted after the syntactic
derivation. The WFR chosen from a given rule block is the highest-ranked one
that matches the features provided by the syntax. The ranking is determined
in part by the Elsewhere Condition (Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity), and in part by
stipulation.
One difficulty for Anderson’s analysis is that the plural -t generally follows
the TAM suffixes, as illustrated in (17a) and (18b). The only exception is the
third-person plural TAM suffixes, which block -t, as in (17b). The remaining
TAM suffixes agree with third-person singular, first-person, and second-person
arguments. These TAM suffixes, which can co-occur with -t, would have to
occupy a separate WFR block from the third-person plural TAM suffixes. This
analysis misses the generalization that the TAM suffixes themselves appear to
be syntactically conditioned allomorphs of a single morphosyntactic category;
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 51
they covary with tense, aspect, mood, and verb class, and thus are traditionally
represented within the same “screeve” or paradigm.
By contrast, the analysis proposed here is in keeping with the view that the
domains within which morphological disjunctivity obtains are not arbitrary
WFR blocks, but instead are determined by the syntax and by quasi-syntactic
operations, such as fusion of functional heads. In other words, since the TAM
suffixes are all associated with the same syntactic node, they must compete
for insertion within the same morphological domain.
This view has led some scholars (such as Nash 1994; Lomashvili and Harley
2011) to claim that the TAM suffixes occupy a distinct morphological domain
from plural -t, since they are generally not in complementary distribution with
it, as illustrated in (17a) and (18b). However, this approach also faces a difficulty.
If the plural -t is independent from the TAM suffixes, there is no evident reason
for the complementarity between third-person plural TAM suffixes and -t.
Lomashvili and Harley propose an Impoverishment operation that deletes the
plural feature from second-person datives in the context of a third-person plural
argument; this prevents -t from discharging a plural feature from the second-
person argument, ruling out *g-nax-es-t ‘They saw you (pl).’ However, the
Impoverishment analysis does not rule out multiple exponence of a single plural
feature as in *g-nax-es-t ‘They saw you (sg)’, with -es and -t both showing
agreement with the third-person subject.13
Third-person subjects are certainly
capable of triggering plural -t—where there is no plural form of the TAM suffix
to block it, as seen in (19) for third-person dative experiencer subjects.
(19) a. am Kac-s megobr-eb-i h-q’av-s
this man-dat friend-pl-nom 3obj-have-#
‘This man has friends.’
b. am Kac-eb-s megobar-i h-q’av-t
this man-pl-dat friend-nom 3obj-have-pl
‘These men have a friend.’ (Based on Nash 1994, 169)
A fission analysis makes it possible to have it both ways—that is, to keep
all TAM suffixes within the same morphological domain, and also to keep -es
and -t within the same morphological domain. In a fission analysis, items
competing for insertion are not in complementary distribution. Instead, the
highest-ranked compatible item is inserted first, discharging some features of
the node, and any remaining features fission off; thus, a lower-ranked item can
also be inserted, if it matches the fissioned features. This was illustrated for
-o-t in (16). This analysis correctly rules out multiple exponence of the same
plural feature by both the third-person plural TAM suffix and plural -t: once
the plural feature is discharged by the TAM suffix it is no longer available to
be discharged by plural -t. On the other hand, fission alone cannot rule out the
52 Chapter 3
combination of two plural suffixes to discharge two separate plural agreement
features. Instead, the claim that arguments compete to agree with a single
uninterpretable [#] feature on T makes it impossible to obtain two separate
plural agreement features on a single T node. The selective nature of syntactic
Agree thus rules out *g-nax-es-t ‘They saw you (pl).’
The same analysis also accounts for the complementarity of -t and -s, illus-
trated in (18b). Anderson accounts for this interaction by extrinsically ordering
-t above -s. Anderson’s analysis correctly predicts the interaction, but only by
stipulation; in the analysis proposed here, it arises from two independently
justified mechanisms. The first is syntactic competition for agreement. In the
proposed analysis, syntactic competition for Agree rules out the possibility of
multiple [#] agreement features on T, preventing -t and -s from being inserted
to discharge distinct number agreement features of the same TAM node. The
second mechanism is Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity, which ranks -t above -s because
the intrinsic features of -s are a proper subset of those of -t (20). Thus, -t blocks
-s, not vice versa. In order for Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity to rank (20a) above (20b),
it is necessary to treat the TAM restrictions on -s as contextual, not intrinsic,
features. This analysis is justified by the fact that -s can combine with an overt
TAM suffix, as in (18a).
(20) a. /-t/ ↔ [#, Group] pl
b. /-s/ ↔ [#] in env. [FTAM] 3sg/default #
By contrast, Anderson’s analysis does not distinguish contextual from
intrinsic features, so Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity cannot account for the ranking of
-t above -s. Indeed, Anderson’s (1984, 12) WFR for -s, specified for [–me,
–you [. . .]], is notably more complex than the one for -t, which is specified
only for [. . .+pl. . .].
3.3.2 Evidence for a Collective Singular Dative First Person in Georgian
As mentioned in section 3.1, there is apparent counterevidence to the syntactic
competition analysis—namely, forms like (21), which appear to agree simul-
taneously with two plural arguments. Indeed, Lomashvili and Harley (2011)
explicitly present such forms as evidence against Béjar’s (2003) claim that
Georgian clauses have only one number-agreement node. Nevertheless, both
language-internal and crosslinguistic evidence supports an alternative account
of (21) that makes it possible to maintain a syntactic competition analysis of
Georgian number agreement.
(21) gv-nax-e-t
multisp.dat-see-aor.part-pl
‘You (pl) saw us.’
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 53
The first observation of note is that, while a nominative first-person argu-
ment can trigger plural -t (22), its dative counterpart is instead associated with
a special prefix, gv- (23).
(22) a. v-nax-e
1.nom-see-aor.part
‘I saw him/her/it.’
b. v-nax-e-t
1.nom-see-aor.part-pl
‘We saw him/her/it.’
(23) a. m-nax-a
1.dat-see-aor
‘He/she saw me.’
b. gv-nax-a(*-t)
multisp.dat-see-aor (*-pl)
‘He/she saw us.’
Halle and Marantz (1994) propose that the plural -t and the person-marking
prefix compete for insertion into the same node, bearing the fused phi-features
of the subject and object. This node can fission into a prefix and a suffix. On
this analysis, the more specific gv- wins the competition to discharge the first-
person plural feature in (23b), blocking the insertion of -t. Lomashvili and
Harley (2011) give a similar analysis of this interaction, postulating a morpho-
logical template with two agreement positions instead of a fission operation.
By contrast, Anderson (1984) treats the prefix and suffix as separate domains
(WFR blocks). Nevertheless, he proposes that the Elsewhere Condition applies
across WFR blocks. Thus, he proposes that the WFR inserting plural -t is
blocked by the application of the more specific WFR inserting gv-.
Anderson notes that gv- only blocks -t when there is only a single plural
argument. When the dative first-person ‘us’ co-occurs with a plural second-
person argument, both affixes appear (21). Nevertheless, since his theory
makes no reference to feature discharge, it provides no account of such forms;
it incorrectly predicts that gv- will always block the insertion of -t. By contrast,
on Halle and Marantz’s analysis (and Lomashvili and Harley’s), disjunctive
blocking is tied to feature discharge. In (23b), gv- discharges the plural feature
of the first-person dative argument, leaving no plural feature for -t to discharge.
In (21), the second-person argument contributes an additional plural feature,
which -t can and does discharge.
Previous analyses of the interaction between gv- and -t assume that both
plural arguments trigger number agreement in (21). Such an approach is
inconsistent with the analysis proposed here, which crucially maintains that
54 Chapter 3
only one argument in the clause triggers number agreement. As it turns out,
however, there is independent evidence supporting the proposal made here that
dative ‘us’ in Georgian is represented morphologically as a collective singular
first person, rather than as a plural. First of all, the fission analysis of Halle
and Marantz (1993) postulates “long-distance” fission, with the two positions
of exponence separated by the stem. However, González-Poot and McGinnis
(2006) argue that fission must be strictly local. For one thing, local fission
yields ordinary binary-branching fissioned nodes, while long-distance fission
would create syntactically exceptional ternary-branching structures, with the
subsidiary node on the opposite side of the stem, as in (24).14
(24)
[F1, F2, F3] Stem → [F1, F2] Stem [F3]
Perhaps the most important evidence against a fission analysis is that the
core cases of fission split off plural features in second and third persons, but
not in first. This pattern is found not only in Georgian dative agreement, but
also in Semitic languages (Noyer 1992; Halle 1997a; Tourabi 2002; Nevins
2002a), in Basque (Arregi 2001), and in Kadiwéu (Nevins and Sandalo 2011).
In each case, first person distinguishes plurality in the prefix, with no suffix,
while second and third person distinguish number in the suffix, with no change
to the prefix. Furthermore, ergative agreement in Yucatec Mayan shows a
nearly identical distribution to that just described, yet does not readily submit
to a fission analysis. In Yucatec, the interaction in question arises between the
auxiliary suffix and the verb suffix. The examples in (25) illustrate the observa-
tion that the first-person plurality contrast is expressed by the auxiliary suffix
(-in/-k), which generally indicates person distinctions, while second- and third-
person plurality distinctions are expressed instead by a suffix on the verb
(-ée∫/-oʔobʔ
). These suffixes cannot be sisters of the same stem; they are not
even part of the same morphophonological word.15
In short, Yucatec strongly
suggests that long-distance interactions between person and number affixes do
not arise from fission.
(25) a. k-in w-áant-ik ‘I help him/her.’
b. k-k ʔáant-ik ‘We help him/her.’
c. k-a w-áant-ik ‘You (sg) help him/her.’
d. k-a w-áant-ik-ée∫ ‘You (pl) help him/her.’
e. k-u y-áant-ik ‘She/he helps him/her.’
f. k-u y-áant-ik-oʔobʔ
‘They help him/her.’ (Blair and Salas 1995)
Instead, González-Poot and McGinnis propose that such interactions arise
from the featural representation of ‘us’, following Ritter 1997, Harley and
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 55
Ritter 2002, and Nevins 2002b. Noting that some pronoun systems distinguish
plurality only in first person, Harley and Ritter propose that person, rather than
number, specifications can distinguish first-person singular and plural; in such
systems, ‘us’ is effectively a collective singular category, not plural. Ritter
(1997) and Nevins (2002b) also postulate a person distinction between first-
person singular and plural in Semitic languages, where number is expressed
in second and third persons.
This type of analysis makes it possible to account for the interaction between
gv- and -t in (23b) without recourse to fission or a templatic analysis. If ‘us’
is a collective singular form in the dative, rather than plural, then both the
special first-person prefix and the absence of the plural suffix are expected.
The same analysis can be given for the apparent double-plural case in (21). If
the first-person dative argument lacks a plural feature, it will not trigger plural
agreement on T. Another argument can do so instead, as in (21), where a
second-person plural argument triggers agreement, or in (26), where a third-
person argument does.
(26) gv-nax-es
multisp.dat-see-aor.3pl
‘They saw us.’
One question that Georgian raises is how to restrict the person-based plural-
ity distinction to the dative case, since nominative first-person arguments do
trigger plural agreement, as shown in (22). On the analysis I have proposed,
both dative and nominative first-person pronouns have the same syntactic
representations, including both the person feature [Multispeaker] and the
number feature [Group]. The [Group] feature is deleted from dative pronouns
by postsyntactic morphological Impoverishment. Impoverishment must apply
after the dative case is valued, but before the number-agreement feature on T
has access to the [Group] feature of the dative pronoun; thus I propose that it
applies at the spell-out of the vP phase. Nominative first-person pronouns can
bear the [Multispeaker] feature, but there happens to be no nominative agree-
ment item that specifies this feature, so the same prefix is used for singular
and plural. However, the plural suffix does distinguish between singular and
plural nominative first-person agreement.
This analysis predicts that there are languages with both [Multispeaker] and
[Group] in which Impoverishment does not apply, and in which the Vocabulary
Items express the range of possible person and number distinctions. In such a
case, first-person plural would be marked with both a special first-person item
(specified for [Multispeaker]), and a plural suffix (specified for [Group]). This
prediction may be correct, as illustrated in (27), which shows pronouns in
56 Chapter 3
Nama (Hagman 1977, 44, cited in Harley and Ritter 2002). In this language,
first-person dual and plural pronouns have a special person-marking stem sií,
which contrasts with first-person singular tií(ta) as well as with second-person/
inclusive saá and third-person //iı̃.16
They also bear [Group]-marking suffixes,
including -m̀/-m in the dual (which includes both [Minimal] and [Group]
specifications), and -e in the plural.
(27) Nama pronouns
singular dual plural
fem masc fem masc fem masc
1st tiíta tiíta siím̀ siíkxm̀ siíse siíke
incl — — saám saákxm̀ saáse saáke
2nd saás saáts saárò saákxò saásò saákò
3rd //’iı̃s //’iı̃p //’iı̃rà //’iı̃kxà //’iı̃ti //’iı̃ku
I conclude that the proposed analysis is viable. Both [Multispeaker] and
[Group] are present on first-person plural representations in Georgian, but
[Group] is deleted from these representations in the dative, so only [Multi-
speaker] remains to make the singular/plural distinction. In short, there is no
double plural marking in Georgian; only one argument agrees with the [Group]
feature on T. Thus, there are no counterexamples to the generalization that
only one argument per clause can trigger number agreement in this
language.
3.4 Conclusions
This chapter argues that the facts of Georgian number agreement are insight-
fully captured by an analysis involving two main components: syntactic com-
petition for agreement with a T node specified for uninterpretable plural
number features; and Vocabulary-driven fission of a node expressing Tense/
Aspect/Mood (TAM) and phi-agreement. Competition for number agreement
ensures that only one (preferably, plural) subject or clitic object triggers
number agreement, while fission ensures that the default plural suffix -t
expresses plural agreement if and only if the TAM (screeve) suffix has no
special plural form. A third, and equally essential, component of the analysis
is the claim that Georgian first-person plural arguments bear a special person
feature, [Multispeaker], which co-occurs with the plural feature [Group]; and
that the [Group] feature is deleted from dative first-person arguments, so that
these fail to trigger plural number agreement, and instead are distinguished
from singulars purely by the [Multispeaker] feature. This component of the
analysis accounts for the fact that Georgian dative first-person pronouns trigger
Agree and Fission in Georgian Plurals 57
a special person-marking prefix (gv-) and no plural suffix (-t); it also accounts
for the apparent double plural marking in forms with gv- and a second- or
third-person plural nominative argument. According to the syntactic competi-
tion analysis, such double number marking should be impossible, and, indeed,
if gv- marks [Multispeaker] rather than plural number, these forms actually do
not involve double plural marking. The proposed analysis also distinguishes
between intrinsic features of a Vocabulary Item—those discharged by the
item—and contextual features, which are not discharged. This distinction
makes it possible to account for the capacity of plural -t to block a default
number suffix -s. It is demonstrated that -s does not discharge the TAM fea-
tures conditioning its insertion, so these are contextual features, and its intrin-
sic features rank below those of -t by Pān
˙
inian disjunctivity. I have argued that
the independently motivated proposals made here successfully address the
empirical and theoretical challenges faced by previous analyses. Thus, this
chapter provides the most comprehensive analysis of Georgian number agree-
ment to date. Moreover, it does so by maintaining Halle and Marantz’s foun-
dational insight that morphological disjunctivity obtains within coherent
domains, corresponding to individual or fused syntactic nodes.
Notes
Thanks to Alec Marantz, Léa Nash, Heidi Harley, and Ora Matushansky for valuable
discussion of Georgian inflectional marking, and to two anonymous reviewers of this
chapter for their tremendously helpful feedback. Thanks also to Léa Nash for her
Georgian judgments.
1. It may be that this second probe operation is possible because an unmatched speci-
fied feature deletes after probing (Béjar 2003), effectively creating a new probe from
the remaining (general) feature.
2. As a reviewer notes, it is unclear why unmatched specified features should be able
to delete, if unmatched general features instead cause a derivation to crash. I leave this
matter for further investigation.
3. Béjar and Rezac (2003a) propose that the directionality of Agree follows from
locality, and from the assumption that the probe is the root of the tree, not the head of
the root projection. An agreeing root probes downward as soon as its head is merged,
since that is its local domain. As the tree extends upward, any newly merged argument
is closer to the (new) probe than any lower argument.
4. Bruening (2001) provides binding evidence for a similar phenomenon in Passama-
quoddy, which also separates proximate from obviative third-person arguments.
5. Another possibility, suggested by a reviewer, is that nonclitic objects are separated
from T by a phase boundary, and are inaccessible for this reason. Both accounts are
also consistent with the fact that [Participant] nominative objects trigger person agree-
ment on the TAM suffix, since these objects are clitics.
58 Chapter 3
6. One puzzle for the proposed analysis is that a third-person object in Georgian can
A-scramble over the subject (McGinnis 1998, 2004)—yet, unlike clitic movement, this
movement does not feed number agreement.
7. I assume that, in languages with active [Group] and [Multispeaker] features, all
[Speaker] representations bearing the feature [Multispeaker] also bear the feature
[Group], and vice versa. This constraint, plausibly motivated by semantic consider-
ations, rules out improbable systems with a four-way number distinction in first person.
8. See Harley and Tubino Blanco, chapter 7, this volume, for additional evidence that
the vP phase plays a role in the morphology.
9. There is evidence that the π-agreement node is an independent site for Vocabulary
Insertion, distinct from the v node itself, whose morphological realization is discussed
by Nash (1995). I leave this issue aside here.
10. Evidence for this claim (and moreover that the [Class] feature of (10a) is further
specified as [Animate]—or rather [Sentient], following Hanson 2003 and Bliss 2005)
is that only sentient subjects actually trigger plural TAM agreement in Georgian (Harris
1981, 149; Sedighi 2005).
11. This -s is not a third-person singular suffix, since in clauses with a dative subject
it can occur with either a singular or plural nominative third-person object—or with
no object (Marantz 1989).
12. To be more precise, -o-n/-o are the optative TAM suffixes for regular first-conju-
gation verbs and regular second-conjugation verbs in i- (Aronson 1990, 142). Regular
second-conjugation verbs in -d- take -a-n/-a instead.
13. McGinnis (1996) proposes a morphophonological rule that deletes plural -t after
a plural suffix. This analysis does correctly rule out multiple exponence in *g-nax-es-t;
however, it does not predict the complementarity between -t and -s, shown in (18b)
and discussed below.
14. Lomashvili and Harley’s (2011) templatic analysis of Georgian agreement avoids
postulating ternary-branching nodes, though at the cost of not clarifying exactly how
syntactic agreement maps onto morphosyntactic template slots.
15. A general rule in Yucatec inserts a glottal stop to repair an onsetless syllable, as in
ʔáant-ik (25b). It is evident that the verb prefix also reflects person distinctions and the
first-person number distinction. A fission analysis could account for the interaction
between verb prefixes and suffixes, but would leave the auxiliary suffixes unexplained;
even concord between the auxiliary suffix and a fissioned verb prefix would not auto-
matically predict that both affixes would happen to have a special first-person plural
form. On the other hand, if first-person plural is a separate person category, the alterna-
tion is expected in both person-marking positions.
16. // is a lateral click.
4
4.1 Introduction
As illustrated in (1), English comparatives and superlatives can be synthetic,
derived with the suffixes -er and -st, respectively, or analytic, requiring the
freestanding morphemes more and most. While in some syntactic environ-
ments, such as metalinguistic comparison (see Bresnan 1973 and Kennedy
1999, among others), only analytic forms are possible, generally only “short”
adjectives allow synthetic forms:
(1) a. smarter, tallest, simplest, shallower . . .
b. most intelligent, more prudent, most splendid, more beautiful . . .
It is a standard assumption (see, e.g., Emonds 1976), which I also adopt
here, that there is no interpretational difference between the bound morphemes
-er and -st on the one hand, and the free morphemes more and most on the
other. Traditionally (Corver 1997b), synthetic forms have been derived by the
movement of A° to Deg°, with analytic forms arising from the insertion of
the support morpheme much when head movement fails (much-support).
Recently, however, an alternative proposal has relegated the derivation of
synthetic comparatives and superlatives to a postsyntactic lowering operation:
either Local Dislocation (Embick and Noyer 1999, 2001; Embick 2007a) or
Morphological Merger (Bobaljik 2012). The derivation of synthetic forms by
Affix Hopping has not been proposed.1
In this chapter I argue against lowering/postsyntactic approaches to the
derivation of synthetic comparatives and superlatives by demonstrating that
the evidence against the head-movement analysis adduced by Embick and
Noyer is nondecisive and that a postsyntactic approach cannot account for the
finer details of the distribution of synthetic and analytic forms.
More or Better: On the Derivation of Synthetic
Comparatives and Superlatives in English
Ora Matushansky
60 Chapter 4
4.2 Against Local Dislocation
As is well known, the formation of English synthetic comparatives and super-
latives is subject to a prosodic constraint (Marantz 1988; Pesetsky 1979, 1985;
Quirk, Greenbaum, Leech, and Svartvik 1985; Sproat 1985): the -er/-est suf-
fixes can only attach to one-foot stems (McCarthy and Prince 1993).2
In other
words, only monosyllabic adjectives and disyllabic adjectives with a light
second syllable (e.g., silly–sillier, yellow–yellower) can give rise to synthetic
forms:
(2) a. smarter, #more smart; brightest, #most bright
b. *beautifuller, ✓ more beautiful; *intelligentest, ✓ most intelligent
Embick and Noyer 1999, 2001 argue that deriving synthetic forms by head
movement is incompatible with the “Late Insertion” hypothesis, according to
which lexical roots are not present in syntax, but are inserted after the spell-out
(Marantz 1994): since head movement occurs before Vocabulary Insertion, no
effect from the choice of the lexical root is expected. Embick 2007a argues
that the problem also extends to “early insertion” frameworks: syntax should
not be sensitive to phonological properties of particular lexical items. Con-
versely, Local Dislocation, a postsyntactic operation applying to linearized
structures, can easily be made sensitive to the phonological properties of the
adjectival stem:3
(3) Local Dislocation rule for comparatives and superlatives
(Embick 2007a, 25)4
Deg[CMPR,SUP]Ⱦ[. . .X. . .]a → [. . .X. . .]a⊕Deg[CMPR,SUP]
(in English: where the phonological form of [. . .X. . .]a meets the
relevant prosodic condition)
The core property distinguishing Local Dislocation from both head move-
ment and Affix Hopping is that the former occurs at or after Vocabulary Inser-
tion. As a result, only Local Dislocation can be sensitive to the prosodic
structure of individual lexical items. However, as argued by Bobaljik 2012,
the problem is that Local Dislocation cannot deal with suppletion: cross-
linguistically, synthetic comparatives and superlatives of adjectives such as
good, bad, little and many/much are often suppletive, and English is obviously
no exception:
(4) a. good → better, best
b. bad → worse, worst
c. little → less, least
d. many/much → more, most
More or Better 61
Since the Local Dislocation rule in (3) contains a reference to the phonologi-
cal form of the adjective in question, the adjectival stem must be spelled out
before combining with the comparative/superlative suffix, which incorrectly
predicts that stem suppletion, as in (4a), should be impossible. To avoid this
outcome, it could be suggested that Vocabulary Insertion into the complex head
[a v]a is conditioned by the presence of a comparative/superlative morpheme
in the same maximal projection. The empirical problem with such a solution
is obvious when we realize that the interaction between the choice of the
analytic or the synthetic form and the availability of suppletion should give
rise to four options, of which is missing: precisely the one that is enabled if
Vocabulary Insertion can be conditioned from outside the target head:
(5) a. intelligent → more/most intelligent
b. cute → cuter/cutest
c. *wuggal → more/most galliwug
d. good → better, best
Since the pattern in (5c) is crosslinguistically not attested, Bobaljik 2012
argues that the derivation of synthetic forms must precede Vocabulary Insertion
and is therefore achieved by Morphological Merger or head movement. To
constrain this process to only apply to certain roots, Bobaljik proposes that it
is triggered by the diacritic feature [+m] on the root node, where only roots
marked [+m] can be inserted; similarly, Graziano-King 1999 suggests that the
selection of the synthetic form is listed in the lexicon. To explain McCarthy
and Prince’s prosodic generalization, Bobaljik 2012 hypothesizes that the
assignment of the diacritic generalizes over statistical regularities in the input
of the language learner.
Setting aside the stipulative nature of this proposal, excluding the phono-
logical form of the adjective from the derivation of synthetic forms seems to
be incorrect. As demonstrated in Mondorf 2009, 24–30, the final consonant
cluster of the stem affects preferences in cases of apparent free variation. Thus,
considerations of euphony explain why adjectives ending in -st are highly
unlikely to form synthetic superlatives (cf. Jespersen 1956), while adjectives
ending in -er or -re show a strong tendency for analytic comparatives (cf. also
Plag 1998). The diacritic-feature approach does not lead us to expect such
preferences where the synthetic form is grammatical, and the differing behav-
ior of comparatives and superlatives in function of the final cluster can only
be modeled by postulating two diacritic features instead of one.
Bobaljik 2012 provides yet another empirical generalization that can be
used to argue against postsyntactic approaches to the formation of synthetic
comparatives and superlatives: crosslinguistically, if the comparative of an
62 Chapter 4
adjective is suppletive, the corresponding change-of-state verb is also supple-
tive. If this correlation is due to the fact that deadjectival change-of-state verbs
are derived from the comparative rather than the positive form of an adjective,
then comparatives must be derived in narrow syntax, in order for deadjectival
verbs to be able to undergo such syntactic processes as head movement (albeit
not in English) or further derivation, including transitivization.
Countering Embick’s objections to the derivation of synthetic forms in
narrow syntax, I will now show that head movement can in principle be made
sensitive to the choice of a specific lexical item. Following Corver 1997b, let
us assume that the comparative/superlative Deg° bears the uninterpretable
feature [degree].Assuming, by an analogy with √-to-v°, that √-to-a° movement
is obligatory5
and the affixal status of the comparative/superlative Deg° trig-
gers overt A°-to-Deg° movement, as in (6a), (6b) results:6
(6) a. DegP
Deg′
Deg°[uDegree] aP
CMP/SUP a° [iDegree] P
TP
b. DegP
Deg′
Deg° aP
a° Deg° a° P
a° -er a° TP
like -ly like -ly like to succeed
At spell-out the structure in (6b) (Abney 1987; Bowers 1987; Corver 1990,
1991, 1997a, 1997b) is evaluated and the lexical properties of various mor-
phemes come into play. Assuming that -er/-est can only attach to “short”
stems, a “long” adjectival stem will fail to be merged in this position, which
leads to the Last Resort operation of much-support. Since the root node and
the affixal a° still need to be spelled out, the adjectival stem surfaces in the
lower position (a°), yielding the analytic form.7
A potential objection comes from the fact that the syntactic structure in (6)
is not the only one hypothesized for comparatives and superlatives. Indeed,
Bowers 1975, Jackendoff 1977, and more recently, Heim 2000, 2006, and
Schwarzschild and Wilkinson 2002, among many others, presuppose that the
comparative DegP is merged as [Spec, aP]—a structure that is not compatible
with either head movement or Affix Hopping:8
(7) AP
DegP
µP Deg′ A′
much Deg° [ CP than…] A° PP
CMP proud of her work
More or Better 63
To rule out the structure in (7) it must be demonstrated that synthetic com-
paratives cannot be derived by either Local Dislocation or Morphological
Merger—the two operations that can combine the relevant terminals in this
configuration. As discussed above, Local Dislocation is excluded by its inabil-
ity to account for suppletion (Bobaljik 2012), while Morphological Merger
cannot straightforwardly account for the prosodic constraints on the availabil-
ity of the synthetic forms. In addition, evidence against the derivation of
synthetic comparatives and superlatives by any form of lowering, including
Affix Hopping, comes from coordinated comparatives like (8), which
Jackendoff 2000 argues to be incompatible with the usual assumptions about
the structure of comparatives:
(8) a. more and more beautiful
b. prettier and prettier
Indeed, the coordinated comparative morphemes in (8a) can be projected in
the structure in (7)—that is, as a conjunction of DegPs in [Spec, AP] in (9)—or
in the structure in (6), as the coordination of Deg° heads in (10):
(9) AP
ConjP A′
DegP Conj′ A°
more Conj° DegP beautiful
and more
(10) DegP
ConjP AP
Deg° Conj′ beautiful
more/-er Conj° Deg°
and more/-er
The question arises how to derive (8b) from these underlying structures. As
Jackendoff notes, no lowering operation is able to derive the coordination of
synthetic comparatives (8b) in the structures in (9) or (10): an additional copy
of the adjective is required for both affixes to combine with a phonological
host. Crucially, since head movement and Affix Hopping are inapplicable in
the configuration in (9), there is no way to derive examples like (8) and we
must conclude that the configuration in (7) is not available, contra Heim 2000,
2006.9
Noting that head movement in the configuration in (6) would represent
an otherwise unattested case of across-the-board insertion (rather than the
64 Chapter 4
usual across-the-board extraction), Jackendoff concludes that (8) cannot be
derived from the structure in (10) either.
The alternative that Jackendoff does not consider is syntactic
reduplication:10
(11) ConjP
DegP1 Conj′
RED Conj° DegP2
and Deg° AP
more/-er beautiful/pretty
Assuming that red uniformly copies the contents of Deg°, the structure in
(11) derives both (8a), where reduplication results in the repetition of the
degree morpheme, and (8b), where reduplication is preceded by head move-
ment of A° into Deg°, yielding a complex head as the source for reduplication.
Lowering analyses, on the other hand, cannot take the same syntactic head as
the source for the reduplicative morpheme. Since in synthetic forms Deg° is
adjoined to A° rather than the other way around, red has to copy Deg° in
analytic forms and A° in synthetic forms. Likewise, allowing red to copy
the first phonological word following and seems unlikely for syntactic
reduplication.
The final issue to be resolved (noted as a challenge for Local Dislocation
in Matushansky 2001 and discussed by Embick 2007a in a footnote)11
is the
comparative bracketing paradox (Pesetsky 1979, 1985; Sproat 1985). As is
well known, the addition of the negative prefix un- does not affect the ability
of an adjectival stem to form a synthetic comparative or superlative:
(12) a. [[un + happy, likely, lucky] + Deg°] → unhappier, unhappiest,
unluckiest . . .
b. [[un + interesting, fortunate] + Deg°] → most uninteresting, more
unfortunate . . .
As Pesetsky 1979 shows, for the purposes of synthetic comparative/superla-
tive formation un-prefixed adjectives behave as if the resulting structure is
(13a) rather than the semantically transparent (13b). To solve this problem
Pesetsky 1985 derives the structure in (13b) from that in (13a) by LF move-
ment of the suffix, as in (13c)—a proposal that cannot be adopted if synthetic
forms are derived in syntax, as in (14) (see Sproat 1985 and Marantz 1988 for
other problems with Pesetsky’s analysis):
(13) a. [un-[A-er/st]]
b. [[un-A]-er/st]
c. [[un-[A-er/st]]-er/st]
More or Better 65
(14) DegP
Deg° NegP
CMP/SUP Neg° aP
un a° P
-ly TP
like to succeed
The fact that the negative prefix un- does not affect synthetic comparative
and superlative formation in the structure (14) can be accounted for under the
hypothesis (Siegel 1974; cf. also Pesetsky 1979 on the postcyclic status of
Russian prefixes) that the prefix un- is postcyclic. If only one-foot adjectives
can give rise to synthetic forms (McCarthy and Prince 1993) and a postcyclic
prefix is extrametrical, un- is correctly predicted to have no effect on the deri-
vation of synthetic forms. The extrametrical status of at least some prefixes12
is also supported by the exceptions to McCarthy and Prince’s generalization—
that is, those English disyllabic adjectives with final stress that nonetheless
allow synthetic forms. Only for two of these, namely, diffuse and remote, does
the frequency of synthetic comparatives approach the frequency of analytic
comparatives (Hilpert 2008): 14 occurrences of diffuser to 34 occurrences of
more diffuse and 87 occurrences of remoter to 179 occurrences of more remote.
Both these adjectives could have been reanalyzed by native speakers as con-
taining a prefix, which would explain why no other stress-final disyllabic
adjective approaches these ratios or such frequencies.13
Whether the postcyclic
status of a morpheme is realized as a diacritic or in some other way is orthogo-
nal to my purposes here.14
To summarize, comparative and superlative suppletion provides evidence
against deriving synthetic forms by Local Dislocation (Bobaljik 2012). Para-
doxically, the prosodic constraint on synthetic forms is shown to support the
head-movement analysis and to be incompatible with Morphological Merger.
All lowering operations, as well as Jackendoff’s (1977) structure (7) in general,
are excluded by Jackendoff’s (2000) conjoined comparatives, which also argue
for a head-movement analysis in conjunction with reduplication. Finally, the
cyclic approach to the comparative bracketing paradox is equally compatible
with the derivation of synthetic forms by head movement or by postsyntactic
lowering operations.
In the next section I simultaneously address the blocking effect of modifying
adverbs and provide further evidence against a postsyntactic analysis by
showing that the derivation of synthetic forms is also conditioned by the
semantics of the adjectival stem.
66 Chapter 4
4.3 Scalarity and Norm-Relatedness
As I observed in Matushansky 2001 (the generalization is implicit in the work
of Clarke 2001 as well; see also Jovanović 2009), nonscalar adjectives like
French, right, or male do not form synthetic comparatives or superlatives in
English, irrespective of their phonology:
(15) This is a ??
realer/*goldener/??
faker/*Frencher sword.
Martin Hilpert’s research provides support for this generalization.A measure
of inherent scalarity is the ratio of comparatives (or other contexts engaging
the degree argument, such as superlatives, combination with such, etc.) to
positive forms. While Hilpert 2008 observes that higher scalarity leads to a
higher percentage of morphological comparative formation, Martin Hilpert
(personal communication) notes that the effect is the strongest for short adjec-
tives: analytic comparatives and superlatives of monosyllabic adjectives typi-
cally have low scalarity.
Embick 2007a suggests that the unavailability of synthetic forms for non-
scalar adjectives is due to their semantic incompatibility with comparison.
While this hypothesis explains why nonintersective monosyllabic adjectives
(e.g., main, past, real) permit neither synthetic nor analytic forms, as illus-
trated in (16), it cannot be all of the answer. Indeed, intersective nonscalar
adjectives can form analytic comparatives/superlatives with a coerced inter-
pretation (= having more/the most properties associated with being French,
right, or male):
(16) a. This is the *mainer/*/??
more main reason.
b. He is a *paster/*/??
more past king.
(17) a. *Becky’s aunt is Frencher/deader/wronger than Napoléon.
b. Becky’s aunt is more French/more dead/more wrong than
Napoléon.
Two ways of deriving the impossibility of synthetic forms with nonscalar
adjectives can be envisaged. Under one view, a nonscalar adjective does not
bear the [degree] feature and therefore cannot be attracted to Deg°, as in (18a).
Under this view, coercion is not reflected in syntax. Under the other view,
coercion is effected by a separate head, as in (18b). To block the derivation of
the synthetic form this head must be stipulated to not attract the adjective. A
further problem with this latter hypothesis is that additional stipulations must
be made to account for the fact that the coerced meaning of nonscalar adjec-
tives is not available in the absence of a degree head.
More or Better 67
(18) a. DegP
Deg′ CPthan
Deg° AP
more/-er French
b. DegP
Deg′ CPthan
Deg° FP
more/-er F′
F° AP
French
Crucially, such purely semantic features as [degree] are not expected to be
available after the spell-out on the PF branch of the computation. The fact that
synthetic comparatives and superlatives must be scalar therefore argues against
deriving them postsyntactically.
I will now argue that the scalarity constraint on the derivation of synthetic
forms correctly predicts that comparatives and superlatives that are formed
from APs modified by adverbs (Embick and Noyer 1999, 2001; Embick
2007a) and PPs must be analytic.
4.3.1 The Semantics of Synthetic Forms
In considering the interaction of synthetic comparative/superlative formation
with adverbial modification, Embick 2007a discusses three semantic classes
of adverbs:
(19) a. Degree
amazingly smart, incredibly tough, unbelievably short
b. Manner
ploddingly slow, happily drunk, clearly glib, flatly honest, rudely late
c. Aspect
physically strong, technically proficient, structurally weak
Starting with degree adverbials (Embick’s (2007a) “roughly evaluative
adverbs”), Embick and Noyer 1999, 2001, and Embick 2007a take the contrast
below as an argument against the head-movement derivation of synthetic
forms: since verb movement (a paradigmatic example of head movement) is
not blocked by structurally intervening adverbs, the question arises why such
adverbs should block synthetic comparative/superlative formation:
(20) a. Mary is the most amazingly smart person.
b. *Mary is the amazingly smartest person.
68 Chapter 4
Challenging the relevance of (20b), Williams 2006 suggests that the ungram-
maticality of such examples is due to the fact that they can only be interpreted as
metalinguistic (Bresnan 1973), while Kiparsky 2005 proposes that the freestanding
superlative morpheme in (20a) can only be interpreted as forming a constituent
with the adverb amazingly. While accepting Embick’s arguments against both
claims, I emphasize that comparatives and superlatives of modifiedAPs necessitate
a prior context introducing the relevant concept into the discourse. To exclude
Kiparsky’s bracketing, consider superlative AP predicates, where the bracketing
in (21a) is excluded and (21b) remains the only structure available:15
(21) Jessamine was the most amazingly drunk.
a. *[the most amazingly] drunk
b. the most [amazingly drunk]
Crucially, native speakers accept (21) only if the prior context contains some
discussion of amazingly drunk individuals, out of which the most [amazingly
drunk] one is discussed:
(22) a. We were all amazingly drunk then, but Jessamine was the most
amazingly drunk.
b. *Guess what—Ron has become the most amazingly drunk in
the bar.
Jonathan Bobaljik (personal communication) suggests that amazingly drunk
in this context is a complex lexical entry, akin to the syntactically complex
structures that can appear as the left member of a compound (e.g., an “off the
beaten track” place, a “holier than thou” attitude). If correct, this hypothesis
would exclude synthetic comparative formation by suggesting that an affix
cannot attach to such a structure. The main problem with this proposal is that
it is not independently motivated. For instance, concept formation is also
operative in DP-internal AP modification (Bouchard 2002, 2005) and is fully
compatible with such inflectional morphology as gender, number, or case, as
illustrated by Russian:
(23) a. o belyx medved’ax
about white-pl.loc bear-pl.loc
about polar bears
b. ot ussurijskoj tigr-ic-y
from Siberian-fem.gen tiger-fem-fem.gen
from a Siberian tigress
It has also been claimed that modified NPs are compatible with derivational
morphology, leading to such bracketing paradoxes as the nuclear scientist, a
derivational morphologist, or indeed (23b) (cf. Pesetsky 1979), while Hoek-
More or Better 69
sema 2012 notes that synthetic forms of elative compound adjectives, such as
dirt poor, are marginally possible in Dutch. The impossibility of synthetic
comparatives and superlatives for degree-modified APs cannot therefore be
due to the incompatibility of concept formation with affixation, though it might
interact with head movement.
Having rejected the head-movement account, Embick and Noyer hypothe-
size that (20b) cannot be derived because the adverb linearly intervenes
between the comparative affix and the adjective, blocking Local Dislocation.
However, the intervention effect is not linear. For a degree modifier PP to be
interpreted in the scope of the comparative (with the concomitant concept
formation, as in (20b)), the analytic form, as in (24), must be used; the syn-
thetic forms in (25) can only mean that the degree to which Jude is smarter
than Joe is amazing:
(24) Jude is more smart to an amazing degree than Joe.
(25) a. Jude is smarter to an amazing degree than Joe.
b. Jude is smarter than Joe to an amazing degree.
To explain these facts I propose that the unavailability of synthetic forms
with modified APs is due the fact that, being norm-related, they are not scalar.16
The link between norm-relatedness and nonscalarity is supported by the fact
that analytic comparatives of one-foot scalar adjectives are typically norm-
related (Rett 2008):17
(26) a. The most clear/clearest evidence comes from the third trial.
b. The ending is even more subtle/subtler.
Under its most natural interpretation, the most clear evidence in (26a) is
clear, while the truth of (26b) entails that the ending is subtle. Synthetic com-
paratives and superlatives in the same environment do not have this effect: the
clearest evidence could still be murky, and an ending that is subtler can still
be pretty blunt.
Further evidence linking analytic forms to norm-relatedness comes from the
attenuative suffix -ish. Though adjectives derived with -ish are vague (a tallish
mountain is clearly not of the same height as a tallish girl), they do not form
synthetic comparatives and superlatives. While it could be suggested that their
prosody (they are minimally disyllabic) is to blame, the lexical semantics of
-ish is a more likely culprit. As argued by Kagan and Alexeyenko 2011, -ish
asserts that a property holds of an individual to a degree slightly exceeding
the standard of comparison (i.e., -ish is clearly norm-related).
On the syntactic side, two ways of encoding norm-relatedness have been
proposed. Under one view, that of Bierwisch 1989 and Krasikova 2009, 2010,
70 Chapter 4
the basic meaning of a scalar adjective is vague and norm-related, while its
scalar interpretation is derived. In this approach a norm-related adjective is not
marked [degree] and therefore cannot be attracted to Deg°, as in (18a). On the
other hand, Rett 2008 adopts the opposite perspective, where the norm-related
interpretation results from the introduction of the EVAL operator (intended
also as a replacement of POS; see Kennedy 1999). If EVAL is a head that does
not attract A°, as in (18b), the derivation of an analytic form is impossible. As
a result, under both views norm-related adjectives should pattern with non-
scalar adjectives in not giving rise to a synthetic comparative or superlative.
What remains now is to demonstrate that adverbial modifiers yield nonsca-
lar APs. The use of expressive adverbs, for instance, entails the applicability
of the positive form:
(27) a. *We are none of us amazingly drunk, but Peter is the most
amazingly drunk.
b. *Neither of them is amazingly drunk, but Peter is more amazingly
drunk than Sue.
Both examples (27) give rise to a contradiction on the assumption that a
degree-modified AP should entail the positive form. Degree modification in
the second conjunct of (27a) must entail that Peter is amazingly drunk, which
is denied by the first conjunct; the same is true for (27b), and a contradiction
results.18
The question therefore arises whether the derivation of synthetic
forms is blocked by the syntax of norm-relatedness.
I will now demonstrate how the scalarity constraint on synthetic compara-
tive/superlative formation can also account for the blocking effect of non-
degree adverbial modifiers.
4.3.2 Manner Adverbials
As noted by Embick 2007a, adverbs specifying the manner in which the prop-
erty denoted by the adjective holds also block synthetic comparative/superla-
tive formation:
(28) a. Robert is more unobtrusively smart/*unobtrusively smarter than
Jessamine.
b. Lois was more earnestly dull /*earnestly duller than David.
Although many manner adverbs, such as ploddingly in ploddingly slow, do
not have natural PP paraphrases, for less idiomatic modifiers it can be dem-
onstrated that PP adverbials also block synthetic comparative formation: the
adverbial PP can be interpreted in the scope of the comparative morpheme in
(29a), but not in (29b). More precisely, only the former is compatible with the
More or Better 71
prior context where the relevant concepts (smart in an unobtrusive way, dull
in an earnest way) are introduced:19
(29) a. Jackie is more smart in an unobtrusive way/dull in an earnest way
than Rose.
b. #Jackie is smarter in an unobtrusive way/duller in an earnest way
than Rose.
I contend that this pattern is expected once we take into account the semantic
contribution of the adverbial. Thus the fact that manner adverbials can combine
with nonscalar adjectives or even with verbs shows that they are not lexically
specified for a scalar AP, unlike degree adverbials (examples from COCA
(Davies 2008–)):
(30) a. It is an amusing alternative that all but the [most ploddingly]
literal-minded would find unobjectionable for a summer evening’s
entertainment.
b. Amidst the six giant turbines, huge orange cranes ploddingly move
back and forth overhead.
Abstracting away, for the sake of simplicity, from all intensional arguments
of the verb would give manner adverbials the semantic type 〈〈e, t〉, 〈e, t〉〉. In
order for them to combine with a scalar AP, the AP would have to be inter-
preted as vague/norm-related (type 〈e, t〉), as discussed above. As a result, we
correctly predict that comparatives of manner-modified APs are norm-related.
Assuming that norm-related APs have the syntax of a positive form entails that
they can only be analytic:
(31) a. Jackie is more unobtrusively smart than Rose.
⇒ Jackie and Rose are both unobtrusively smart.
b. Lee is more quietly brilliant than Charles.
⇒ Lee and Charles are both quietly brilliant.
To summarize, the fact that both manner adverbs and PPs denoting manner
disallow the formation of synthetic comparatives and superlatives removes a
potential argument in favor of deriving synthetic forms by Local Dislocation.
The fact that manner adverbials force the AP they combine with to be inter-
preted as nonscalar allows us to derive the blocking effect of manner adverbials
from the scalarity constraint on the availability of synthetic forms.
4.3.3 Aspect Adverbials
As observed by Embick 2007a, n32, aspect adverbials (cf. Bartsch 1987;
Kennedy 1997; Bierwisch 1989) are compatible with synthetic comparatives
or superlatives:
72 Chapter 4
(32) a. Mary is physically stronger than John.
b. This building is structurally weaker than that one.
Interestingly, as noted by Embick, aspect adverbs are also the only class of
adverbs that can appear postadjectivally, as in (33c), which is the word order
expected if the synthetic forms are derived by head movement. As Embick
also notes, manner adverbs can appear postadjectivally in the positive form as
well, as (34) illustrates:
(33) a. *Mary is the smartest amazingly person in the class. Degree
b. *Jackie is smarter unobtrusively than Rose. Manner
c. This building is weaker structurally than that one. Aspect
(34) Mary is strong physically.
Embick 2007a further hypothesizes that the optional postadjectival position
is somehow connected to the ability of an adverb to outscope the comparative
morpheme. Sharpening this observation, I propose that the postadjectival posi-
tion of an adverb results from adjunction to DegP. Independent support for
the ability of aspect adverbials to attach to DegP comes from the fact that
with analytic comparatives and superlatives, where no sort of movement is
assumed to have taken place, aspect adverbs can appear either above or
below more:
(35) They are both technically proficient guitarists, but . . .
a. Cindy is a more technically proficient guitarist than Rick.
b. #Rick is a technically more proficient guitarist than Cindy.
Unsurprisingly, a difference in order entails a difference in interpretation:
(35a) attributes to Cindy a higher degree of technical proficiency, while (35b)
claims that Rick is more proficient from the technical standpoint only, though
the distinctions become more subtle with different adverbs. PP correlates of
aspect adverbs behave similarly: only the analytic form is compatible with the
PP modifier treated as part of a complex concept:
(36) a. The verb go is more light with respect to its phonology than the
verb fall.
b. The verb go is lighter with respect to its phonology than the
verb fall.
(37) a. This book is easier in a hard-to-define way.
b. This book is more easy in a hard-to-define way.
Here also, the analytic form is norm-related, though the effect is obscured
by the fact that the positive form in contradictory statements like (34) can be
interpreted stereotypically (see also note 18):
More or Better 73
(38) a. I’m more technically proficient than I used to be, but I’m not
??
(really) proficient.
b. Though neither kid is ??
(really/truly) physically strong, Anna is more
physically strong/#physically stronger than Liz.
I conclude that, like manner adverbials, aspect adverbials modify the posi-
tive form of the adjective, adjoining to FP in Rett’s model (39a) or to a non-
scalar AP, whose head cannot move to Deg°, in Krasikova’s model. An aspect
adverbial adjoining to the comparative DegP, as in (39b), does not block syn-
thetic comparative formation:
(39) a. DegP
Deg° FP
more AdvP FP
physically F° AP
strong
b. DegP
AdvP DegP
physically Deg° AP
A° Deg° A°
strong -er strong
To summarize, in this section I argued that the derivation of synthetic com-
paratives and superlatives is constrained by the semantic properties of the AP.
In particular, I showed that in English intersective nonscalar adjectives, such
as French, cannot give rise to synthetic forms. I attributed to the same scalarity
constraint the fact that analytic comparatives and superlatives of scalar adjec-
tives are norm-related and then demonstrated that comparatives of APs modi-
fied by adverbs or PPs also are.
4.4 Conclusion and Further Questions
In this chapter I provided evidence in favor of deriving synthetic comparatives
and superlatives by the syntactic process of head movement, as opposed to a
postsyntactic process, such as Local Dislocation or Morphological Merger. As
I showed, the former cannot account for comparative suppletion (Bobaljik
2012), while the latter cannot easily deal with phonological constraints on the
synthetic forms. Jackendoff’s coordinated comparative construction cannot be
derived by any lowering operation, which also rules out the structural alterna-
tive with the comparative DegP in [Spec, AP]. Conversely, the copy nature of
74 Chapter 4
head movement can be used to account for phonological constraints on adjec-
tival stems (contra Embick and Noyer 1999, 2001).
I have also argued that the blocking effect of adverbial modification is
semantic in nature: empirically, modified APs are norm-related. Assuming that
norm-related APs are nonscalar allows us to assimilate modified APs to non-
scalar APs, which do not allow synthetic forms in English. The existence of a
semantic constraint on the formation of synthetic comparatives and superla-
tives is also more compatible with a syntactic rather than a postsyntactic (PF)
derivation on the assumption that purely semantic features, such as [degree],
are not available at PF.
There are some indications, however, that nonscalar adjectives and norm-
related APs do not always pattern the same. Thus in German and Dutch non-
scalar adjectives give rise to synthetic forms, while comparatives and superlatives
ofnorm-relatedAPseithercanonlybeanalytic(Dutch)orareineffable(German).
It is tempting to hypothesize that the difference between Dutch and German is
due to the general availability of analytic comparatives in the former (a relatively
recent innovation), but more research is required in order to determine whether
languages with both synthetic and analytic comparatives and superlatives avail-
able always pattern the same in disallowing the former option for modified APs.
Another issue that I have not discussed here is that of double comparatives,
as in the most unkindest cut of all (Corver 2005; González-Díaz 2007), which
can in principle result from Affix Hopping followed by much-support, but do
not seem compatible with a head-movement analysis. Linked to that are mul-
tidependent comparatives like John is (much) taller than Mary than Bill is,
which Bhatt and Pancheva (2004) analyze as involving haplology of a double
synthetic comparative, though their acceptance by native speakers is varied. I
leave these matters as a topic for further research.
Notes
The first instantiation of this paper, a reaction to Embick and Noyer 1999, was pre-
sented at GLOW XXIV (April 8–10, 2001, Braga, Portugal). The paper benefited from
many insightful comments from Rajesh Bhatt, Noam Chomsky, Kai von Fintel, Ken
Hale, Morris Halle, Sabine Iatridou, Tania Ionin, David Pesetsky, Carson Schütze,
Marcus Smith and Dominique Sportiche, as well as from the GLOW audience. After
a 10-year gap, I returned to the issue of synthetic comparatives and superlatives, using
their morphosyntactic properties to argue against the prevalent semantic take on the
internal structure of comparatives placing the degree morpheme in [Spec, AP]. As a
result, this article has profited from questions and critiques at the Leiden SyntaxLab
(March 17, 2011), the Degree Workshop at Sinn und Bedeutung 16 (Utrecht, September
5, 2011), and the Vagueness Circle (Amsterdam, October 7, 2011). I’m also extremely
More or Better 75
grateful to Eddy Ruys for his ever-available help and advice, as well as to Jonathan
Bobaljik and an anonymous reviewer for a most valuable discussion.
The shortcomings of this article in no way reflect upon my enormous intellectual
debt to Morris Halle and Alec Marantz for teaching me how to use the wonderful tool
of morphology.
My research was generously supported by NWO (Netherlands Organization for
Scientific Research, project number 276-70-013).
1. The third approach, which I will not discuss here for reasons of space, is to derive
synthetic forms in the lexicon (Poser 1992). The same result can be achieved in the
narrow syntax by head adjunction at Merge. Space limitations prevent me from discuss-
ing the matter further.
2. This well-known constraint is often violated: quite a few disyllabic adjectives form
synthetic comparatives but do not have a light second syllable (see section 4.2 for some
discussion). Conversely, Kytö and Romaine 1997 and Hilpert 2008 show that compara-
tives and superlatives of trisyllabic adjectives found in the British National Corpus are
necessarily analytic, though a handful of exceptions, especially for superlatives, can be
found.
3. Local Dislocation is sensitive to structure, as well as to the phonological form, which
makes it possible for Embick to account for the fact that in metalinguistic comparatives,
such as (i) from Bresnan 1973, only analytic forms are possible.
(i) I am more angry/*angrier than sad.
Bresnan 1973 attributes the obligatory much-support in (i) to a structural difference
from the more standard degree constructions and in particular, to nonadjacency. A
similar analysis is adopted in Embick 2007a, which proposes that the comparative
combines with a null adverb rather than with the adjective. Both structures are incom-
patible with Local Dislocation, head movement, or Morphological Merger, yielding the
impossibility of synthetic forms in all three approaches.
4. Following Sproat 1985, Embick 2007a treats linearization as a two-step process.
The first step of fixing local linear precedence relations is followed by the second step:
a concatenation procedure, whose result serves as input to Local Dislocation. This
refinement does not affect the argument here.
5. Following the standard conventions, I assume that a category-free root projects as
a sister of a categorizing x head. Following Kennedy and Svenonius 2006, I hypothesize
that the degree argument of the adjective is introduced by a, which therefore comes in
at least two flavors: the scalar and the nonscalar ones. For the sake of simplicity, the
thematic subject of the adjective is not indicated; where the complex morphological
nature of the adjective is irrelevant, I will use the standard A and AP notation.
6. If the visibility of the affixal status of a given functional head in syntax is a violation
of strict modularity, the alternative is to derive the affixal status of a head as a conse-
quence of its ability to trigger head movement.
7. As noted by Poser 1992, Basque verbal morphosyntax exhibits a synthetic/analytic
imperfective paradigm that gives rise to exactly the same sort of issues: synthetic forms
of the present and past tenses are only available for a handful of verbs while the rest
must use periphrastic forms. Crucially, as discussed by Arregi 2000, there is no
76 Chapter 4
systematic semantic distinction between the two classes of verbs and for both the
periphrastic forms can be used to express habituality. Arregi argues, contra Laka 1993,
that the synthetic forms are derived by V-to-T movement, which is therefore sensitive
to the choice of particular lexical items, however this sensitivity is achieved. The same
point can be made in relation to the ability of the lexical verbs be and (in some dialects
of English) have to undergo head movement. Because the focus of this chapter is on
lowering and/or postsyntactic operations rather than Late Insertion, I will not pursue
the matter here.
8. The structure in (7) has been mostly used for comparatives, with evidence drawn
from ellipsis resolution and scope interaction with intensional verbs; for the (in)appli-
cability of the same motivation for superlatives, see among others Stateva 2000a,
2000b, 2002, 2003; Sharvit and Stateva 2002; Matushansky 2008.
9. Jackendoff’s examples are compatible with the structure in (7) if the analytic (8a)
and the synthetic (8b) forms have the different underlying structures in (ia) and (ib),
respectively. However, if both structures in (i) are available, examples like (ii) are
incorrectly predicted to be grammatical (with the same interpretation):
(i) a. [AP [ConjP [DegP more] and [DegP more]] beautiful]
b. [ConjP [AP [DegP
−er
[AP pretty+er]]] and [AP [DegP
−er
[AP pretty+er]]]]
(ii) a. *[AP [ConjP [DegP more] and [DegP
−er
]] pretty +er] = (ia) with Local Dislocation
b. #[AP [ConjP [DegP more] and [DegP more]] pretty]
= (ia) with affixation failure and much-support
c. #[ConjP [AP [DegP more [AP beautiful]]] and [AP [DegP more [AP beautiful]]]] = (ib)
Furthermore, though Jespersen 1956 claims that a conjunction of a synthetic and an
analytic comparative, as in (iii), is possible, Mondorf 2007 demonstrates its extreme
rarity across different corpora, in the synchronic as well as diachronic perspective. I
hypothesize that in modern-day English a conjunction of two comparatives with the
same lexical head (and therefore the structure in (ib)) is impossible:
(iii) grow bolder and still more bold
To the extent that (iii) is available, its interpretation is different from Jackendoff’s
coordinated comparative, suggesting that the positive form of the adjective (bold)
serves as the basis for the second conjunct (see section 4.3 for discussion).
10. The analogous construction in French (i) is clearly syntactically formed and com-
pletely incompatible with an across-the-board movement analysis, since it does not
involve coordination:
(i) a. de plus en plus belle
from more in more beautiful
b. de meilleur en meilleur
from better in better
Further investigation of crosslinguistic availability and realization of
Jackendoff’s comparatives is required to verify the hypothesis that the first conjunct
is not itself a comparative morpheme. Importantly, coordinated comparatives share
their inability to combine with an overt standard of comparison with the semantically
More or Better 77
similar comparatives of incremental change (Beck 2000; Zwarts, Hendriks, and De
Hoop 2005):
(ii) a. Each subsequent apple was more succulent. Beck 2000
b. The final exams get easier each year. Zwarts, Hendriks, and De Hoop 2005
c. Wolves get bigger as you go north from here. Carlson 1977
I leave this topic for future research.
11. Marantz 1988 addresses the bracketing paradox in (12) in the context of
Morphological Merger. However, because Morphological Merger is not conditioned
by linear adjacency, the prefix un- doesn’t function as an intervener. Bobaljik
2012 proposes that the prefix un- is transparent with respect to the diacritic feature
[+m].
12. The A-to-A prefixes over-, extra-, and super- are also incompatible with synthetic
forms, but here not only their prosody (they are all disyllabic and accented), but also
their semantics (see section 4.3 for some discussion) might be responsible. The mono-
syllabic English prefixes re- and de- do not form adjectives. Others, such as anti- or
pre-, do not combine with adjectival stems, while the negative in- selects for Latinate
stems, which are derived and therefore tend to be at least disyllabic.
13. The remaining disyllabic adjectives with word-final stress in Hilbert’s list are
absurd (16/1), compact (18/4), corrupt (5/1), intense (169/4), mature (141/14), obscure
(40/2), polite (23/7), robust (95/1), secure (156/4), severe (227/9), and sincere (12/2),
with the numbers in parentheses indicating the word counts of analytic and synthetic
comparatives in the British National Corpus. Synthetic superlatives of longer adjectives
are noticeably more frequent than their synthetic comparatives, though their use is also
clearly emphatic in some way, approaching that of absolute superlatives, aka elatives.
Whatever additional factors facilitate the formation of synthetic superlatives with adjec-
tives that resist synthetic comparatives, the pragmatic effect accompanying it is difficult
to reconcile with a postsyntactic derivation of synthetic forms.
14. While Newell’s (2005) Late Adjunction analyses of bracketing paradoxes neces-
sitates a different structure (with Neg° adjoined to a°), Embick’s (2007a) hypothesis
that Vocabulary Insertion at Neg° takes place after Local Dislocation extends the notion
of postcyclic operations to post-spell-out syntax. Because of space limitations, I will
not investigate the matter any further.
15. Empirically, the acceptability of AP-internal superlatives appears to depend on the
possibility of retaining the superlative interpretation in the absence of the associated
definite article—that is, in the predicate position and the DP-internally, as witnessed
by the restricted distribution of [(*the) best]-known versus the less constrained (the)
[most well-known]. Due to space limitations, I set this matter aside.
16. The property of norm-relatedness (Bierwisch 1989; Krasikova 2009, 2010) is also
known as “comparative presupposition” (Kiefer 1978), orientedness (Seuren 1984), or
evaluativity (Doetjes, Neeleman, and Van de Koot 1998; Rett 2008). A degree construc-
tion can be interpreted in a norm-related way for a number of reasons. Thus in English
norm-relatedness is a property of equatives and interrogatives of negative adjectives
(Bierwisch 1989; Rett 2008), as well as of certain cases of cross-polar nomalies
(Bierwisch 1989), while in Russian norm-relatedness obtains regardless of the polarity
of the predicate (Krasikova 2009, 2010). We set these issues aside here.
78 Chapter 4
17. Norm-relatedness is not the only reason for the appearance of the analytic form
with short adjectives. For other factors inducing its use, such as metalinguistic inter-
pretation (Bresnan 1973), prosody, and so on, see Kytö and Romaine 1997, Lindquist
2000, Mondorf 2002, 2003, 2009, and Hilpert 2008. Assuming that the scalar and the
norm-related readings of an adjective are not in any sort of competition derives the
optionality of analytic forms in contexts where the positive is true.
18. More complex are examples like (i). On the one hand, intuitively the use of low-
degree adverbs like somewhat or slightly means that the positive AP cannot be used.
However, an attempt to explicitly negate the positive form leads to a perceived contra-
diction, unless the second instance of the adjective is interpreted in an emphatic way,
as if it had been modified by the adverb really. I leave the matter for future research.
(i) a. #Isabelle is slightly drunk, but she’s not drunk.
b. #The issue is somewhat unusual, but it is not unusual.
19. Here also, comparatives formed with the freestanding degree morpheme more give
rise to an alternative bracketing, where more combines with the adverb to the exclusion
of the adjective, as well as to a metalinguistic interpretation (where more can be
replaced by rather). Both these readings will be disregarded here.
5
5.1 Introduction
In this chapter, I compare two different positions as to the relevance of struc-
ture when it comes to stress assignment in English derived words: the “classic
derivational” and the optimality theory (OT hereafter) approach. The central
issue is how to account for the preservation of stress (and vowel quality) in
English affixation and whether the structure of derived words plays any role
in the process. As is well known, words in English may but need not change
the position of primary stress when affixed. In (1) the word government is
derived from the word govern and the position of primary stress is not changed
in derivation. When governmental is derived from government, primary stress
shifts from the first to the prefinal syllable. In (2), primary stress is shifted in
each of the two derived words, instrumental and instrumentality.
(1) góvern góvernment gòvernméntal
(2) ínstrument ìnstruméntal ìnstrumèntálity
Furthermore, even if the position of primary stress is changed with affixation, the
syllable bearing primary stress at some point in the derivation preserves the stress
in the form of secondary stress (e.g., gòvernméntal, ìnstruméntal) and is at the
same time prevented from being reduced to a schwa (e.g., ìnstrumèntálity).
In this chapter, I first look at an analysis of the phenomenon as in (1) and
(2) that can be seen as a natural extension of the classic derivational analysis
found in Chomsky and Halle 1968 (SPE hereafter). The latter is supplemented
with a theory of word structure as in Marantz 2001 and will be referred to as
a phase analysis of the preservation of stress. The proposal together with its
theoretical background is presented in sections 5.2–5.4. In section 5.5, the
chapter presents a conceptually very different analysis of the phenomenon, the
OT analysis of English word stress in Burzio 1994, comparing (in section 5.6)
the two proposals in the relevant points. Since stress assignment in English is
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment?
Tatjana Marvin
80 Chapter 5
too vast a topic to be covered here, this chapter only aims at commenting on
the role of word structure in both approaches in general terms, and presenting
the difference in the approaches on a very limited set of data. Also, the
approaches are summarized (relatively) in detail only with respect to stress-
structure connection, while only crucial points are highlighted otherwise.
5.2 Phases at the Word Level
The first view presented in this chapter is couched in the framework of Dis-
tributed Morphology (Halle and Marantz 1993; Halle 1997a; Marantz 1997).
In this approach, words are built by the syntax performing all merger opera-
tions, while roots and affixes have no category per se, but are merged in the
syntax with category-forming functional heads such as the “little” n, v, a, to
form nouns, verbs, and adjectives, respectively. For example, the verb read is
constructed by taking the category-neutral root √READ and attaching a pho-
nologically null little v; the derivation can then proceed by further attachment
of a little a realized by -able, giving us the adjective readable, and so on.
If words are treated as a result of syntactic processes, they are “expected”
to show similar syntactic phenomena as found on the sentence level. One
example is Chomsky’s (2001) phase-by-phase spell-out, where the main idea
is that derivation of sentences proceeds in phases, where phases can be seen
as (predetermined) chunks of syntactic structure that are spelled-out at the
phonological and semantic level and are after that point impenetrable for
potential semantic or phonological operations that the structure built on top of
them might cause. Marantz (2001a) proposes that phrases such as little vP, nP,
and aP constitute such chunks—that is, phases at the word level. The idea
(elaborated in Marvin 2002) is summarized in (3):
(3) a. Phrases headed by word-forming functional heads, such as little v,
little n, and little a, constitute spell-out domains at the word level
(Marantz 2001a).
b. Phases at the word level are subject to Chomsky’s (2001) Phase
Impenetrability Condition.
c. Phase Impenetrability Condition at the word level (PIC hereafter): H
and its edge (specifiers, adjoined elements) are spelled out at the next
strong phase. The domain of H is spelled out at the phase of HP. A
head h adjoined to H is in the domain of H.
At the point of the merger of the category forming head x (where x stands for
v, n, or a, and is supplied with derivational affixes), the complement of the
little x is spelled out (i.e., meaning and pronunciation are determined) and
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 81
from that point on it is inaccessible to heads attaching higher. The mechanism
is schematized in (4).1
(4) x3P
x2P
x1P
√P
x3
x2
x1
at x3P, x1 and √P inaccessible to x3, x2 accessible x3, x2P spelled out
at x2P, √P inaccessible to x2, x1 accessible x2, x1P spelled out
at x1P, √P accessible to x1, √P spelled out
5.3 Stress Assignment in English
5.3.1 English Stress in General
In this section I present how stress assignment in English is captured in a
rule-based approach; for a phase analysis (in section 5.4) the analysis adopted
is as in Halle 1998.2
Relying on the metrical theory in Idsardi 1992 and Halle
and Idsardi 1995, Halle 1998 proposes that the English stress system is con-
stituted by the Main Stress Rule (MSR) supplemented by two edge-marking
rules.3
The MSR has two parts. A binary foot is constructed at the end of a
string whose last asterisk projects a light syllable. A unary foot is built if the
last syllable is heavy or there are not enough syllables in the word to construct
a binary foot. The application of the MSR is illustrated in (5). For example,
in the word develop, the last syllable is light and so a binary foot is constructed:
de(velop.4
In the words robust and cajole, on the other hand, the last syllables
are heavy; therefore a unary foot is constructed (e.g., ro(bust, ca(jole). In the
rightmost column we find words with only one syllable, where only unary feet
can be constructed regardless of the syllable weight such as (put, (black.
(5) *(** * (* * (* (*
devélop robúst cajóle pút
In addition to being subject to the MSR, some words are also subject to edge-
marking rules (henceforth EMR), which apply to a list of words before the
MSR. The first of the two edge-marking rules, referred to as the RLR EMR,
inserts a right parenthesis before the final syllable of the word if the syllable
contains a short vowel (6a). The second edge-marking rule, the LLR EMR,
inserts a left parenthesis to the left of the rightmost syllable (6b).5
(6) a. *(* *]* *(* ]* * (*]* (*]*
América agénda Tacóma vílla
b. (* * [* * (* [* * * (* [* (* [*
málachìte stalágmìte monophýsìte Hússìte
82 Chapter 5
The EMR rules apply first to a list of words; they are followed by the MSR,
which applies to all words. Halle (1998) also assumes that the feet constructed
on line 0 are left-headed.6
Finally, in Halle’s system suffixes are either cyclic (i.e., they trigger the
application of stress rules in the constituent they form) or noncyclic (i.e., they
do not affect the stress of the constituent they form when attached). This is
also adopted by the phase analysis.
5.3.2 The Relevance of Structure for Stress Assignment: SPE
The standard example from SPE illustrating the phenomenon of the preserva-
tion of stress and vowel quality in English affixation is the ‘minimal pair’
condensation–compensation. SPE observes that in some dialects of English
the boldfaced /e/ in condensation reduces to a schwa, while this is not the case
in the word compensation, despite the fact that phonotactically and morpho-
logically the two words are very similar. The vowel reduction is a consequence
of the Vowel Reduction Rule, which reduces a lax vowel to a schwa in English.
The explanation for this fact offered in SPE is that the difference between the
two nominalizations follows from the stress of their constituents. That is, the
nominalizations “contain” the verbs condense and compensate, which repre-
sent the first cycle in the formation of the nouns condensation and compensa-
tion and that have different stress patterns.7
(7) a. condensátion (/e/ is not reduced) condénse → condènsátion
b. compensátion (/e/ is reduced) cómpensate → còmpensátion
In the former verb, primary stress is found on condénse, which consequently
means that the stressed vowel cannot be reduced to a schwa in the cycle of
the verb, where stress is assigned for the first time. In the latter verb, main
stress is found on the first syllable of cómpensate; therefore, the corresponding
/e/ in compensate can be reduced to a schwa in the cycle of the verb. If the
stress from earlier cycles is preserved, we now have a natural explanation for
the different vowel quality in the two nominalizations. In condensation, the
vowel /e/ has received stress on an earlier cycle (i.e., the verb cycle) and is
therefore prevented from being reduced. In compensation, the vowel /e/ has
been reduced on the earlier cycle and has remained the same in the
nominalization.8
The insight from SPE can be directly linked to a finer-grained (i.e., phase)
syntax at the word level as proposed in Marantz 2001a. In such an analysis
the phase spell-out and PIC as in (3) apply to stress in connection with vowel
reduction. Stress and vowel quality preservation in the sense of SPE and
Kiparsky 1979 are a consequence of the phase spell-out mechanism. To
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 83
sum up, the stress in English words is a result of the interaction of the three
factors:
(8) a. Building blocks with selectional and stress-related specification
b. Set of phonological rules
c. Structure of building blocks
The building blocks (affixes) have stress-related specification, which means
that they can be stress neutral or can trigger the application of stress rules
when attached (noncyclic or cyclic, respectively, as in Halle 1998). The set of
phonological rules comprises different rules of English stress and the order in
which they apply (Halle 1998). Some phenomena, such as the preservation of
stress in derivation, cannot be accounted for only by the properties of building
blocks and stress rules, requiring for their explanation also the third element,
the structure of the building blocks. Specifically, the phase analysis restricts
the system in such a way that when stress has been assigned in a particular
chunk (little x in our analysis), neither the properties of building blocks
attached to the chunk nor the stress rules can erase this information. Once
assigned, stress is preserved.
5.4 Rules and Phases Applied to English Stress
In this section, I join the three elements summarized in (8) and claim the
following:
(9) a. Words are composed of little xPs (Marantz 2001a).
b. MSR and EMR apply at every xP if triggered by a diacritic marking
on x (i.e., by cyclic affixes); they also apply at the last xP if not
triggered before.
c. Vowel Reduction Rule takes place at the level of “prosodic word”.
d. A “phase analysis” (phase spell-out and PIC) as in (3) applies to
stress in connection with Vowel Reduction.
To illustrate this claim, we take the word governmentalese with the structure
as in (10) and the step-by-step derivation as in (11a–e). At each phase the
corresponding metrical grid is indicated after the illustration of rule application
by using a diacritic (e.g., á) to mark stressable elements that receive asterisks
on line 1. The Vowel Reduction rule (which is noncyclic in nature) takes place
after the spell-out of n2P.
84 Chapter 5
(10) n2P
n1P
vP
√P
aP
-ese
-al
-ment
a
n2
n1
v
Δ govern-
(11) a. At vP: govern-(∅) → EMR → MSR → the root is spelled out as
góvern
line 1 *
line 0 (* ]*
govern
b. At n1P: govern(ment) → the vP is spelled out as góvern9
line 1 *
line 0 (* * *
govern ment
c. At aP: government(al) → EMR → MSR → the n1P is spelled out as
góvernmént
line 1 * *
line 0 (* * (* ] *
govern ment al
d. At n2P: governmental(ese) → EMR → MSR → the aP is spelled
out as góvernméntal
line 1 * * *
line 0 (* * (* * (*
govern ment al ese
e. at the next higher phase: governmentalese: → EMR → MSR →
Vowel Reduction → n2P is spelled out as góvernméntalése /
gΛvәrnmεntәli:z/
At vP, where the root phrase is spelled out, the stress rules apply, which
gives the root spell-out govern, illustrated in (11a). At the next phase, n1P, the
affix -ment is added to the structure and consequently to the metrical grid, but
since this affix is noncyclic, it does not trigger application of EMR and MSR.
Thus the vP is spelled out as govern, as illustrated in (11b). The next spell-out,
illustrated in (11c), occurs at aP, where the stress rules are triggered by the
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 85
attachment of the cyclic affix -al. The underlying representation of the affix
-ment is still accessible at this point, so after that syllable receives an asterisk
on line 1, the vowel in -ment surfaces as a /ε/. The underlying representation
of the root is inaccessible at this point, so even if the stress rule would at this
point assign no asterisk on line 1 to the root govern-, the latter still retains the
asterisk due to its already having been spelled out two phases ago, as in (11a).
The resulting effect of this mechanism is that it appears as if the stress is
preserved from the previous assignments. At n2P, the complement aP is spelled
out as góvernméntal, as illustrated in (11d). The affix -ese attached at this point
triggers a reapplication of the stress rules, causing a projection of a line 1
asterisk on the syllable /ese/. However, since the chunk góvernmént- is inac-
cessible to the stress rules applying at n2P all line 1 asterisks of n1P are pre-
served in the grid. Finally, at the next higher phase n2P is spelled out. Stress
rules have assigned a line 1 asterisk to -ese, while line 1 asterisks of aP are
still preserved from previous phases. Since now we reach the end of the word,
Vowel Reduction takes place. This is illustrated in (11e).
It should be noted that in this derivation, we do not state explicitly what the
difference between primary stress and subsidiary stress is, the term stress
covering both cases. Obviously, the assignment of primary stress cannot be
subject to PIC as in (3), since it can change with affixation. I assume here that
primary stress assignment is a phenomenon occurring at lines higher than line
1 in the metrical grid and is therefore not subject word-level PIC. 10
5.5 English Stress in OT
In this section I present a very brief overview of a non-rule-based approach,
with special emphasis on stress assignment in derived words. The approach
considered here is an OT-based analysis found in Burzio 1994, which makes
use of interactive well-formedness (markedness) constraints in the spirit of
McCarthy and Prince 1993 and Prince and Smolensky [1993] 2004.11
To begin,
let us summarize Burzio’s (1994) analysis for underived words. Burzio pro-
poses a typology of possible feet as in (12), where “H/L” stands for heavy/
light syllables and vowels followed by colons are long.
(12) Typology of possible feet (Burzio 1994, 165)
Feet Nonrightmost Rightmost
a. mo(nòn.ga)héla (Hσ) (Hσ) a(gén.da)
b. (wìn.ne.pes)sáukee (σLσ) (σLσ) a(mé.ri.ca)
c. ac(cé.le)ràte (Lσ) #(Lσ) h(ónes)t
86 Chapter 5
The second component of his analysis is the English-specific existence of a
special class of syllables, referred to as weak, which may or may not be metri-
fied, as exemplified in (13a–b), where the weak syllables are italicized. In the
words on the right-hand side, the final weak syllable is extrametrical, which is
why these words appear as exceptional in terms of stress.12
If not extrametrical,
weak syllables form the so-called weak feet, which fail to attract primary stress,
as illustrated in (13c). In English, primary stress falls on the rightmost nonweak
foot (if more than one foot is involved), while feet in general are head initial.
(13) a. a ris (to cra cy) (ac cu ra)cy
b. ob(ject tive) (ad ject)ive
c. (órtho)(dòxy), (árchi)(tècture)
The final postulate of the analysis is that all English words end in a vowel,
leading to positing final null vowels in words such as robust or develop, as
shown in (14).
(14) a. ro(bús t∅) / (éarnes)t∅
b. de(vé lo p∅) / (ás te ris)k∅
5.5.1 Constraint Ranking
5.5.1.1 No Affixation
The highest-ranked constraint for nonaffixed words is the so-called Metrical
Well-Formedness, which represents a set of possible feet in English that is
summarized in (12). Indeterminacies with respect to parsing—for example,
whether a certain chunk is parsed as (σLσ) or σ(Lσ)—or to the metrification
of weak syllables are resolved by further constraints ranked lower than Metri-
cal Well-Formedness. These constitute the so-called Metrical Alignment con-
straint and will not be further summarized in this chapter.
5.5.1.2 Affixation
When it comes to the interaction between stress and word formation, Burzio
(1994) claims that stress in morphologically complex words maximally pre-
serves the metrification of the constituent parts and that the principle imposing
consistent metrical characteristics on morphemes is “embodied” in a special
constraint. The constraint regulating the preservation of stem stress under
affixation is Metrical Consistency, ranked as in (15).
(15) Metrical Well-Formedness >> Metrical Consistency
>> Metrical Alignment
To illustrate a simple case of Metrical Consistency at work, let us take the
word manipulation, which according to Metrical Well-Formedness could be
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 87
parsed either as ma(nìpu)(látion) or (mànipu)(látion). However, the first
parsing wins, because it preserves the stem stress of ma(nípu)(làte) and as
such crucially obeys Metrical Consistency, violated by (mànipu)(látion).
Burzio notes the two familiar patterns of stress preservation under affixa-
tion, which he refers to as weak stress preservation and strong stress preserva-
tion, exemplified in (16) and (17), respectively. The first is traditionally argued
to occur when stress-changing suffixes are attached, while the second occurs
with stress-neutral suffixes.
(16) napóleon → na(pòle)ónic∅
(17) pròpagánda → pròpa(gándis)t∅
The “stress-changing” nature of suffixes is a result of the interplay of Metri-
cal Well-Formedness, Metrical Consistency, and their ranking (see also (22)).
The difference between what we traditionally term stress-changing and stress-
neutral suffixes (i.e., between (16) and (17)) is a reflex of the way the final
syllables in the stem can combine with the phonological structure of the suffix
itself either to guarantee preservation of stem stress or not. In Burzio’s theory
suffixes are assumed to have lexical representations that mark off their position
in a foot (e.g., -icø), a)l, -ity), -atio)n). Stem stresses are preserved if and only
if they correspond to independently well-formed feet.
In the word napoleonic, which contains a “stress-changing” affix -ic, the
stem napoleon and the affix -ic interact in such a way that the constraint
of Metrical Well-Formedness requires a remetrification. Consider the deriva-
tion of na(póleo)n + icø). If the parsing of the stem na(póleo)n is to be pre-
served in this newly derived word, we get na(pòleo)(nícø) and the last foot
violates Metrical Well-Formedness.13
Thus a different parsing has to be
employed, one with a ternary foot at the end—na(pòle)(ónicø)—the result of
which is perceived as a stress shift, since now primary stress falls on a different
syllable than in na(póleo)n. However, Metrical Consistency makes sure that
the winning candidate, though remetrified, is the one that preserves the stem
stress from the word napóleon and not perhaps one that does not (e.g.,
*nápoleónic).
In the word propagandist, with a stress-neutral affix -ist and the stem pro-
paganda, the syllable from the affix (-(d)ist) overlaps with the syllable of the
stem (-(d)a) and the constraint of Metrical Well-Formedness assigns stress as
in (17) in a predictable fashion; no remetrification is needed, which results in
an apparently complete preservation of stress.
To sum up, in Burzio’s system the default case is that stress does not change
with affixation (and that morphemes keep their stress throughout the deriva-
tion) unless the phonological properties of the stem and affix combination
88 Chapter 5
require a remetrification of the whole to obey the higher-ranked well-formed-
ness constraint. Affixes are thus neither stress neutral nor stress changing by
nature as in the SPE approach, but appear as such due to the interaction with
the stem and the tendency to obey the well-formedness constraint.
5.6 Comparison to Phase Analysis
In this section I compare Burzio’s analysis with the phase analysis as proposed
in this chapter, with special emphasis on the stress preservation phenomenon.
I examine three environments where I believe the phase analysis better cap-
tures the facts because of the importance it assigns to structure in relation to
stress assignment.14
5.6.1 Scope of Stress Preservation
As pointed out by Kager (1995), in Burzio’s approach, it is not really clear
what the scope of stress preservation within a set of morphologically related
forms is. If there is no element ensuring that the phonological shape of a
complex word can only depend on that of its embedded morphemes, such as
the cycle in derivational approaches, then nothing prevents the incorrect pre-
diction that stems preserve stress from their derived forms (e.g., *orígin from
oríginal) or that a derived form could preserve stress of any deeply embedded
constituent (*òriginálity if from órigin rather than from oríginal) (Kager
1995).
The phase analysis does not incur such problems because the ‘embedding’
relationship between words and their constituent parts is clear from the struc-
ture of words. For example, the three words origin, original, and originality
are posited the structures as in (18), from which stress is derived via stress
rules “bottom up.” The noun origin is derived by attaching a phonologically
null n to the root √ORIGIN. The adjective original does (crucially) not embed
the noun origin, but the root √ORIGIN, to which the little a (realized by -al)
is attached. It is thus not surprising that the root stress is different in the first
two words—in both cases the affixation can affect the stress on the root, and
it does it in a different way given that in the noun but not in the adjective the
affix is null. In originality, the stress is assigned first at the spell-out at aP
(oríginal) and then at the spell-out at nP (orìginálity). Note that at nP, the root
stress is not changed anymore (it is retained as secondary stress); only the
stress in the “not-yet-spelled-out” constituent is affected (the one on -al-). In
the phase approach, what might be problematic is finding independent evi-
dence for positing a certain structure for a derived word, but not the direction-
ality of stress preservation.15
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 89
(18) Origin–original–originality
Origin Original Originality
nP
origin-
√P
n
Ø
aP
origin-
√P
a
-al
nP
√P
n aP
origin-
a
-al
-ity
5.6.2 Stress Preservation and Mixed Suffixes
Let us now turn to the case of the so-called mixed suffixes, such as -able or
-ist. These are suffixes that (according to Burzio’s definition) in some words
appear as stress changing (e.g., rémedy–remédiable), while in others they
appear as stress neutral (e.g., prevént-prevéntable).16
Burzio (1994) solves this
“puzzle” by referring to the metrical properties of the combination of the stem
and the affix, claiming that -able is stress neutral if the first syllable of -able
replaces the null vowel of the stem, as in (19). Otherwise, -able appears stress
changing, since it requires remetrification as in (20).
(19) a. pre(vént∅) → pre(vénta)ble
b. in(hábit∅) → in(hábita)ble
(20) a. (démon)(strá:te) → de(mónstra)ble
b. (ímpreg)(nàte) → im(prégna)ble
c. (rémedy) → re(mé:dia)ble
d. (súrvey) → sur(véya)ble
In the phase analysis the mixed behavior of suffixes such as -able can be
explained as directly related to the structure of the word, as a consequence of
the attachment site of the affix. To illustrate the idea, consider a well-known fact
that base verbs in -ate are often (e.g., operable, irritable, navigable), but not
always truncated (e.g., cultivatable, emancipatable, operatable) (Plag 1999).
Apart from having a special stress when compared to their nontruncated coun-
terparts, the truncated forms can also have a special—that is, unpredictable—
meaning (operable = ‘usable’), while the nontruncated forms always have a
predictable meaning (operatable = ‘that can be operated’), following Marantz
2001a. The claim here is that the stress pattern of the nontruncated adjectives is
predictable (òperátable), which follows from the structure of these words, as in
(21b). The affix -able is not attached to the root directly, but rather to an already-
made verb óperàte, or in other words, it is introduced after the first phase (vP),
90 Chapter 5
when the stress on the root has already been negotiated. Given (3), the stress of
the spelled-out constituent is preserved, in this case as a subsidiary stress on the
root. The so-called truncated form could in principle have a different stress on
the root because of a different structure: here the affix attaches not to an already-
made verb, but to the root and can influence the spell-out of the root.
(21) a.
√P
aP
a
-able oper-
b.
√P
aP
vP
a
-able
oper-
-ate-
v
This is perhaps even more obvious in pairs such as cómparable ‘roughly
similar’ and compárable ‘that can be compared’, where a special meaning and
stress is seen in cómparable (structure in (21a), not related to the verb compáre)
and a predictable meaning and stress is found in compárable (structure parallel
to (21b), related to the verb compáre, with a null v).
The same reasoning is employed with respect to Burzio’s examples in (20).
In the words demonstrable and impregnable no stress shift occurs with respect
to the verbs demonstrate and impregnate, because the derived adjectives are
not derived from the verbs in -ate, but rather have the structure as in (21a).
Similarly, for remedial, I posit the structure as in (21a); this word is not derived
from the noun, but from the root √REMEDY. Surveyable in (20d) is different;
its structure (and meaning ‘that can be surveyed’) is parallel to (21b), with the
verb survéy as an intermediate constituent, from which stress is retained.17
Burzio’s examples in (19) have the structure parallel to (21b), where no stress
shift is predicted anyway.
Finally, it is interesting that Burzio (1994) also notes the following gener-
alization: mixed suffixes are systematically neutral with free stems but not
neutral with bound ones, the property that in his system is captured by positing
the two constraints as in (22).
(22) Metrical consistency hierarchy: a > b
a. Stem consistency
b. Suffix consistency Burzio (1994, 254)
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 91
Mixed suffixes appear neutral when attached to a free stem, satisfying (22a)
(e.g., americanist derived from american), but impose a fixed stress pattern
otherwise—that is, with bound stems (e.g., antagonist derived from antagon-),
satisfying (22b), when (22a) is irrelevant. The observation about the relevance
of bound and free stems, which is a structural one, is translated into the two
constraints in (22) as if its structural nature were irrelevant. In the phase
approach, this observation follows directly from the relevance of word struc-
ture—an affix can influence the spell-out of the root if attached to the root
directly (bound stem, e.g. (21a)), but not if attached after another xP has been
attached to the root (free stem, e.g. (21b)).
5.6.3 Stress Preservation in Multiple Suffixation
The next structure-related phenomenon, which is stated just as a coincidental
(though important) observation in Burzio 1994, is stress preservation in mul-
tiple suffixation. Burzio (1994) observes that neutral suffixes maintain their
word integrity under further suffixation–if in the structure (23) suf1 is neutral,
then suf2 can affect at most suf1, but not the stem, as seen from example (24).
(23) stem + suf1 + suf2
(24) desíre → desírable → desìrabílity
In the phase analysis such generalization is directly predicted. Given (3) and
(4), attached material can influence the stress of the previous phase, but not
of the phase below the previous phase. In (23) it is therefore expected that suf2
could influence the stress placement in the material in the suf1, but not in the
stem, because the latter will be spelled out at the point where suf1 is attached
and thus become inaccessible for potential changes in further suffixation. What
follows directly from the structural position of the affix in the phase theory is
coincidental in the OT analysis, yet then stated as a generalization described
above.
5.7 Conclusion
So, is word structure relevant for stress assignment in English? To some extent
the answer is yes in both of the two analyses. In the phase analysis, structure
is one of the crucial factors when it comes to explaining the preservation of
stress, especially the behavior of mixed suffixes and the range of influence
that a certain suffix can have in a multiply suffixed word. In the OT analysis
structure is relevant in an indirect sense—stress in English words is assigned
differently in affixed and nonaffixed words (i.e., further constraints are needed
for affixed words), so word structure (whatever it may look like) cannot be
92 Chapter 5
completely ignored. However, only the phase analysis can predict and account
straightforwardly for the mixed behavior of certain affixes or the range of
influence affixes can display as following from the structural position that the
affix takes in the word. In the OT analysis such instances appear either coin-
cidental or are made to follow from further constraints that indirectly rely on
the structure of words.
Notes
For insightful comments and discussion on this topic, I would like to thank the audience
at the workshop What’s in a Word (University of Tromsø, September 2010). Thanks
also to the two anonymous reviewers and the editors for providing numerous helpful
comments and suggestions.
1. For a similar view, see also Embick 2010. See Lowenstamm 2010 for a critical
assessment of views where derivational affixes are categorical exponents and phases
within words correspond to SPE cycles, such as Marvin 2002 and Embick 2010.
2. In principle some other theory of stress assignment could be adopted to illustrate
the same point (e.g., Halle and Vergnaud 1987, where extrametricality is used instead
of edge marking).
3. Here I adopt a theory of stress following Liberman 1975, Prince 1983, Halle and
Vergnaud 1987, Idsardi 1992, Halle and Idsardi 1995, and Halle 1997b, in which stress
contours of words are expressed by means of a metrical grid. The bottom line (line 0)
is composed of projections of the stressable elements (syllables), and higher lines
constructed by projecting some of these elements upward (the heads). Feet are con-
structed by boundaries (left or right parentheses); they are left- or right-headed.
4. The last syllable in develop is considered light because it forms the so-called weak
cluster, defined in SPE as a string that consists of a simple vocalic nucleus followed
by no more than one consonant.
5. The examples in (6b) have two stresses, one primary and one secondary. They are
subject to the Rhythm Rule (Halle 1998), which places the main stress on the leftmost
syllable on line 1 of the metrical grid. The Rhythm Rule in Halle 1998 is an extended
Rhythm Rule proposed by Liberman and Prince 1977, applying in word sequences as
well as within single words.
6. A few other minor rules are needed to account for certain groups of exceptions, for
which the reader is referred to Halle 1998. Also, it is important to note that the rules
proposed by Halle 1998 have lexical exceptions (e.g., (i) and (ii)). These words are
marked in the lexicon as special and cause problems to any theory of English stress.
(i) (*] * Also: modest, solemn, modern, auburn, covert (unexpectedly
góvern subject to RLR)
(ii) (* *] *
Cáthol-ic Also: Arabic, politic (unexpectedly subject to RLR)
7. The SPE notion “cycle” can be roughly defined as the point of the application of
stress rules to a certain constituent.
Is Word Structure Relevant for Stress Assignment? 93
8. As to the Vowel Reduction Rule, SPE places it after the process of stress assignment
within the word (i.e., in the noncyclic block).
9. The square bracket is added to govern as part of the EMR rule that applies to this
lexical item; see note 6. Since this bracket is only relevant in the first phase, when the
root is spelled out, it is not kept afterward as part of the notation. The same applies to
the square bracket related to -al in (11c).
10. Similarly, the so-called Rhythm Rule (Liberman and Prince 1977; Kiparsky 1979)
can change the properties of the already spelled-out constituent, as can be seen in (i)
for the word thirteen.
(i) a. thìrtéen
b. thírtèen mén
11. This section is intended merely as an illustration of the main principles rather than
as a detailed summary of the whole of the Burzio 1994 proposal.
12. Burzio’s analysis employs extrametricality confined to special syllables in the spirit
of Liberman and Prince 1977. In Burzio 1994, the properties of weak syllables are
(tentatively) attributed to their acoustic weakness.
13. (Lσ) cannot appear in word-final position.
14. It should also be noted that Burzio (1994) does not see stress preservation linked
to vowel reduction in contrasting pairs such cond[e]nsation and comp[ә]nsation. He
claims that the difference in vowel length follows from constraints of the preservation
of segmental quality (from cond[e]nse and comp[ә]nsate) that is independent of pres-
ervation of stress. In this chapter I limit the comparison between his analysis and the
phase analysis to the position that the two take to the preservation of stress. For a
detailed proposal, see Burzio 1994, chaps. 4, 10, as well as Burzio 2007.
15. There is a small group of exceptions that cannot be explained by a phase analysis.
If in (i) the right-hand word is derived from the left-hand one, where the latter is already
an xP, then we run into a problem of derived words either losing or acquiring stress on
the parts that should already be spelled out. This problem is acknowledged in SPE,
which reflects the view that groups of words like solidity are not the general case, but
exceptions hard to capture in any theoretical approach.
(i) a. sólid–solídity
b. télegràph–tèlégraphy
c. catástrophe–càtastróphic
d. compónent–còmponèntiálity
16. For a discussion of the “pair” remedy–remediable, see also Steriade 1999. Her
view, termed Lexical Conservatism and similar to Burzio’s approach in spirit, will not
be discussed here due to lack of space.
17. The phasal approach has to account for the difference between the stress of the
noun súrvey and the stress of the verb survéy—here some rule connecting such pairs
of nouns and verbs needs to be posited.
6
6.1 In the Beginning Was the Q
The origins of Distributed Morphology can be traced to an argument Morris
Halle and I had when I arrived (back) at MIT to teach in the fall of 1990. I came
with “lexicalist” assumptions about morphology, as worked out for example in
Lieber 1992—not the notion that words were built in the lexicon but rather the
notion that lexical items, identified by their phonology, brought syntactic and
morphological features with them into the derivation. Morris was working out
a proposal that morphemes with suppletive (phonologically unrelated) allo-
morphs, like the English past-tense morpheme, were “abstract,” as he put it,
finding their phonology after the syntax had done its work. Such morphemes he
proposed to call “Q” in the syntax, taking over the variable for complex symbols
used by Chomsky in Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. On the other hand, mor-
phemes without suppletive allomorphy like the English progressive -ing were
“concrete” and came into the syntax with their phonology, here consistent with
lexicalist approaches. Although I was not convinced that we should abandon
lexicalist assumptions about morphemes and adopt Qs, I was adamant about one
point—if some morphemes were abstract, the grammar would be more coherent
if all morphemes were Qs (To put it differently, if the only difference between
abstract and concrete morphemes was in the multiplicity of spell-out, then con-
crete morphemes should be treated as abstract morphemes that just happen to
have a single realization; i.e., if being a Q did not determine behavior in the
syntax, Q-ness should not be a syntactic property of morphemes.) Thus “Dis-
tributed Morphology” (DM) in its current form, as associated with Halle and
Marantz 1993, 1994, was from its start about the interpretation of abstract mor-
phemes—the building blocks of syntax that found their interpretation in form
and meaning in the interpretive components of the grammar.1
Let history show
that Morris was right, but that I made him even more right; to paraphrase a
folktale famous in linguistic circles, it was Qs all the way down.
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the
Interfaces
Alec Marantz
96 Chapter 6
In the Halle and Marantz 1993 theory, Vocabulary Insertion (VI) could be
contextually determined, but we did not discuss locality conditions on the size
of conditioning contexts for VI that might be principled consequences of the
architecture of the grammar. Nor did we envision a melding of DM with
Chomsky’s Economy framework, critically discussed at the end of that paper.
In the following years, with the advent of the Minimalist Program (MP), DM
found a natural union with Chomsky’s approach, and by the turn of the twenty-
first century, the linking of cyclic phase-based syntax within the MP with the
architecture of DM was being actively explored.
A number of related lines of research on constraints on Vocabulary Insertion
sketched out reasonable theories of constraints on contextual allomorphy—that
is, choice between Vocabulary Items (VIs = allomorphs) determined solely by
context, where the competing allomorphs realize (are the exponents of) the same
set of features on a terminal node from the syntax (cf. competing realizations—
allomorphs—of the English past tense, all of which spell out just past-tense
features on a terminal node). Bobaljik (2000) proposed a mechanism of root-out
VI that guaranteed the downward context could see phonological information
and specific VIs while the upward context could only refer to grammatical fea-
tures (where “up” and “down” are relative to the tree-structure representation of
a word). Bobaljik’s proposal proved influential as a productive working assump-
tion for research in this area. In the most detailed discussion of the relationship
between the syntactic and phonological structure of words to date, Embick
(2010) proposed additional locality constraints on contextual allomorphy spe-
cifically related to the phonological structure of a word, making reference, for
example, to phonological adjacency as defined by concatenation of morphemes.
While researchers within the DM/MP universe explored different assumptions
about the nature of cyclic spell-out, all work assumed that context would be
constrained by phases—that is, only material within a spell-out domain defined
by phase heads could be visible as context for VI.
Within the MP, some attention has been paid to the issue of whether seman-
tic and phonological interpretation happen at the same time in a derivation, so
to speak—that is, whether the spell-out domains for LF and PF are the same.
The most natural assumption within MP is that the same elements from the
syntax are sent for interpretation at both interfaces at the same point in a deri-
vation (an assumption sometimes associated with the “single-cycle” hypoth-
esis), but empirical considerations have led linguists to argue for mismatches
between LF and PF spell-out domains (see, e.g., Marušič 2009 and the discus-
sion in Grohmann 2009).
In addition to questions about the relative timing of semantic and phonologi-
cal interpretation within the cyclic derivation of a sentence, in the case of
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 97
semantic interpretation, we can ask whether there is an equivalent to VI on the
LF side that introduces semantic values to morphemes in a manner sensitive
to context. That is, is there “contextual allosemy” parallel to contextual allo-
morphy? Surely “abstract” morphemes are as abstract with respect to seman-
tics as they are with respect to phonology; if morphemes in the syntax were
semantically concrete, we would identify them by their semantic content in
the syntax rather than by their grammatical features. If there is contextual
allosemy when the semantic values of abstract morphemes are fixed at the
interfaces, would the locality constraints on contextual allosemy parallel those
for contextual allomorphy? This chapter supports the default hypotheses here:
that the semantic interface, like the phonological interface, does allow for
contextual allosemy, within the same spell-out domains as for contextual
allomorphy and governed by the same locality constraints. Section 6.2 briefly
explains the locality conditions on contextual allomorphy, adapted from
Embick 2010. Section 6.3 presents a quick theory of contextual allosemy,
covering the choices of meanings that count here, both for roots and for func-
tional morphemes. For this discussion, it proves crucial to contrast contextual
allosemy with the sort of “special meanings” associated with idiom formation.
Section 6.4 presents three challenges for the proposed locality constraints on
contextual allosemy, two from the literature on Japanese and Greek, and a case
parallel to these from English. In this section, it is shown that the data from
these languages are actually predicted by the theory of sections 6.2 and 6.3
and highlight an extremely strong prediction about apparent nonlocal condi-
tioning of contextual allosemy. Section 6.5 concludes.
6.2 Contextual Allomorphy
To illustrate what is at issue for locality in contextual allomorphy, consider the
“irregular” English past tense taught; irregular past-tense morphology in
English was one of the prime motivations for Halle’s DM precursor theory,
with the English past tense an exemplary Q. For Vocabulary Insertion, we want
the root TEACH to be realized as /tɔ/ in the environment of the past tense.
And we want the past tense to be realized as /t/ in the environment of TEACH
(given the phonology of the past-tense stem here, the “regular” past-tense
realization would be /d/, after a vowel).2
For a theory like that of Bobaljik
2000, the contextual allomorphy here fits the generally expected pattern, given
the structure in (1): VI at the root is up/outwardly sensitive to the past-tense
feature on T, while VI at T is down/inwardly sensitive to the actual item
inserted at the root node. However, Svenonius (2012a) has recently questioned
whether root-out VI is a necessary addition to the locality constraints on VI
98 Chapter 6
already demanded by the cyclic architecture of the MP. Nothing in the present
chapter hinges on whether Bobaljik or Svenonius is correct.
(1) a. English past tense; contextual allomorphy across a phase head
√TEACH + v(+voice) + Past = taught
b. Overt little v head would block contextual allomorphy of the root
√QUANTUM + ize + Past = quantized, *quintized, *quantumized, etc.
Two issues of locality are crucial to the English examples in (1). First,
there’s the question of locality within a phase—that is, putting both tense and
the root in the same locality domain. If voice and little v (in combination, or
one or the other) are a phase head, then it would seem that the verbal root and
tense are on different sides of a phase boundary. Shouldn’t the root be spelled
out in the complement domain of the v+voice phase head, before the Merger
of T? Second, there is a question of adjacency—does the root need to be next
to the conditioning environment for VI? Doesn’t v+voice interfere with
adjacency?
I adopt here a particular version of “derivation by phase” in which the
merger of a phase head sends its complement domain for spell-out. For this
chapter, we will assume that each root is adjoined to the category head that
“types” it as a lexical category prior to any stage of the derivation in which
either the category head or the root might be phonologically interpreted. That
is, a verbal root will be in the same spell-out domain as voice and little v and
will not be spelled out in the complement domain of little v.3
Only the comple-
ment structure of a verb will be spelled out when the voice+v phase head is
merged, not the verb root. The assumption that the verbal root falls within the
same spell-out domain as the v category head holds important implications for
the way that head movement in the grammar might interact with spell-out
domains within words, as well as for the theory of verbal argument structure
(are the complements of a verb the complements of the root, for example).
Work on the relationship between word structure and phonology (see Embick
and Marantz 2008 and below) indicates that stems that are also words of a
particular syntactic category (e.g., global (adjective) in globalize) must be
spelled out phonologically independent of category-changing morphology that
might be attached to them (e.g., -ize in globalize). As a consequence, if words
such as globalization are created via head movement of typed categories, with
say the adjective global moving to the v head -ize and then the verb globalize
moving to the n head -ation, the embedded complements to the phase heads—
here the adjective complement to v and the verbal complement to n—must be
spelled out as the result of merging to the higher phase head. That is, in these
cases, the typed stems must be within the spell-out domain of the affix as
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 99
category/phase head. The head movement here, if head movement is the proper
mechanism for word formation, does not serve as an escape hatch for these
complements to avoid spell-out within the complement domain of the higher
category head. If roots join their category heads via head movement, the rela-
tionship between the root and the category head must differ in some way from
that of a category head and a lower typed stem, as for the n head-ation and
the typed verbal stem globalize in our example; the root and category head are
in the same spell-out domain while the typed stem and the category head are
not. One possibility to explore in this context is that roots are always (“exter-
nally”) merged to their category heads and never undergo head movement as
part of word formation (although a given root might syntactically merge with
different category heads). Other possibilities would involve deeper develop-
ment of the theory of head movement and syntactic word formation.
As for the intervention of voice and v between tense and the verb root, our
second locality issue for the English past tense, phonologically null heads do
not block adjacency between the root and the conditioning environment for stem
allomorphy within a spell-out domain. Embick (2010) discusses the invisibility
of phonological zeros for adjacency requirements on contextual allomorphy, but
the observation that phonological nulls generally do not stand in the way of
relations requiring phonological adjacency is widespread in the literature. In (1b)
we illustrate the blocking effect of an overt little v on the potential contextual
allomorphy of the root or the past tense in English. When the little v is spelled
out as -ize, the past tense cannot trigger contextual allomorphy on the root, nor
could the root condition an allomorphic choice of tense.
So, it is not the case that a phase head by itself necessarily blocks contextual
allomorphy—the voice+v complex between a root and tense does not interfere
with Tense serving as the context for VI at the root (and vice versa) since all
these heads are spelled out at the same time, in the complement domain of C.
If, instead of T, the potential context were a phase head, then a v(+voice) node
between the root and the context would, in a sense, “block” a contextual rela-
tionship between the root and the higher phase head. A simple potential
example of this blocking would be English productive -er nominalizations, as
indicated in (2).
(2) root+v(+voice)+n work-Ø-(ø)-er
Here the little n node, a phase head under the assumptions of, for example,
Embick and Marantz 2008, would send its complement domain for spell-out,
including only the root+v(+voice) complex, and not the little n head itself. The
verb would need to find its phonological interpretation independent of the
context of the n head, which is to be spelled out as -er in this example. The n
100 Chapter 6
head itself could not find the root as context because by the time VI occurs at
the n head, the root has been realized as part of a bigger structure. Here it does
not matter whether the intervening heads are phonologically zero, since the
constituent is no longer identifiable as a root. (VI at n might be sensitive to
properties of the highest head in its complement, which “types” the constituent
to which it attaches, so perhaps properties of voice and/or little v, for instance,
could condition VI at n in this example.)
The apparent “regularity” of derivational morphology in English that
attaches to word stems (stems that have already been “typed” as a n, v, or
a—stems that are not bare roots) has been presented as support for this view
that a phase head (a category-determining head) blocks contextual allomorphy
triggered by another phase head (category-determining head). See the discus-
sion of inner (root attaching) versus outer (lexically typed stem-attaching)
derivations in Marantz 1997 and Embick and Marantz 2008.
(3) “inner” -er (rotate/rotor) vs. “outer” -er (rotate/rotater)
“inner” -ity (curiosity) vs. “outer” -ness (gloriousness)
“Outer” morphology may be phonologically adjacent to a root but never serves
as context for contextual allomorphy of the root, nor does the root act as
context for contextual allomorphy on the “outer” affix.
Although this section has framed contextual allomorphy as a question of
the context for VI—thus for suppletive allomorphs of a morpheme—the
considerations here should apply also to contextual allomorphy created by
morphologically triggered phonological rules (“readjustment rules”); that is,
special changes to the pronunciation of a morpheme with a morphological
context, where the morphological identity of both undergoer and context is
relevant. (See Harley and Tubino Blanco, chapter 7, this volume, for an argu-
ment that suppletive root allomorphy, handled by VI, needs to be separated
from phonological readjustments to a previous spelled-out root, with readjust-
ment following VI, although both would be subject to the same locality con-
siderations.) Cases of stem changes in English irregular past-tense formation,
which are describable in terms of reasonable phonological rules (or motivated
by reasonable phonological constraints; see, e.g., the feel/felt alternation),
would be governed by the same locality constraints as the teach/taugh(t)
alternation, where any possible phonological motivation is synchronically
obscure and the relevant rules or constraints would be limited to a single item.
Morphological context for phonological spell-out must be available in the
same spell-out domain and phonologically adjacent to the morpheme subject
to the special realization, whether via VI or via what are sometimes called
“readjustment rules,” whatever the formal realization of these rules within the
theory of phonology.
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 101
6.3 Contextual Allosemy
Given our understanding of the locality constraints on the phonological spell-
out of morphemes, we may ask whether the same constraints apply to contex-
tual allosemy, the possible conditioned semantic spell-out of a morpheme at
the LF interface. Since the constraints at the phonological interface were
argued to follow from the general architecture of the grammar, we should
expect parallel constraints to hold for allosemy. Only material in the same
spell-out domain should condition allosemy, and this material should be
semantically adjacent to the morpheme whose semantic value is being deter-
mined, where semantic “adjacency” would parallel phonological concatena-
tion and mean “semantically combines with directly.” But what is contextual
allosemy? That is, what sort of meaning alternations could be attributed to a
choice of semantic interpretation for a morpheme in a given context?
Of concern in this chapter is root allosemy—the choice of particular meaning
for a root in a particular context. However, possible contextual determination
of the meanings of functional morphemes is currently being explored in the
literature within DM/MP frameworks consistent with the assumptions of this
chapter; see Marantz 2012 and Wood 2012, both of which rely on work of
Schäfer 2008. The kind of issue being explored in the work on functional heads
involves the apparent syntactic and morphophonological leanness of structures
that exhibit semantic complexity. For example, although the meaning of transi-
tive open the door arguably involves “cause,” “change,” and “be (in the open
state),” the syntax and morphology of lexical causatives like English open
crosslinguistically fail to show evidence for the full multiplicity of heads
implicated by the meaning. In particular, languages do not seem to realize
either syntactically or morphophonologically both a “cause” head and an
“inchoative” head in lexical causatives, although arguably the interpretation
of the little v of an inchoative like the door opened would involve “become,”
with the transitive open the door, then, involving a “cause” and “become”
meaning. If we limit the basic functional ingredients of the vP to voice, a little
v, and the verbal root (where any extra little v would yield a syntactic causative
construction and an additional phase), we would need semantic “flavors” of
little v to yield different vP meanings (or some way of deriving more complex
semantic structures from a limited semantic inventory of heads, given the
syntactic context of these heads—the richness of the various contextually
determined event interpretations within the vP constituting contextual allosemy
on such an approach). Such semantic flavors of v might be contextually deter-
mined at the LF interface, rather than being featurally specified in the syntax.
Wood (2012) explores a similar approach to the meanings of voice (e.g., the
102 Chapter 6
distinction between voice that adds an external argument and voice that does
not), extending insights of Schäfer 2008.
For the kind of contextual allosemy of functional heads described above, I
know of no challenges to the claim that such allosemy might be governed by
the locality conditions suggested at the outset of this section: context within
the same spell-out domain as the head being interpreted and semantically
adjacent to this head. For example, a little v taking a little vP complement
would always be interpreted as a syntactic causative head; such a little v would
send its (vP) complement off for interpretation, and for context at its own
semantic realization, it would see only the interpreted vP. On the other hand,
voice, little v, and the root could interact with an interpreted complement of
v to determine their semantic values, with the actual interactions governed by
the specifics of how they combine semantically.4
Putting aside, then, the extremely interesting topic of functional head
allosemy, we turn to roots. In previous work (Marantz 2001), I had claimed
that the meaning of a root would be fixed by the first category node up in the
tree from the root, the syntactic category node that “types” the root as a lexical
category noun, verb, or adjective. There is a sense in which this locality condi-
tion follows directly from semantic adjacency—if the root combines semanti-
cally with the category head, then this would be the local domain for
determination of root meaning independent of phasehood. The types of exam-
ples considered in the literature, both in Marantz 2001 and the work to follow,
however, also involved phase boundaries as the potential context for meaning
determination. These configurations attached an additional, category-chang-
ing, head to the category head–plus–root combination, and asked whether the
higher head could condition meaning choice of the root over the intervening
head. If category heads are phase heads, the higher category head would send
its complement for interpretation, preventing it from serving as the context for
any contextual allosemy on the root, which spells out in the context of the
lower category head. Unexplored were configurations like that in (1) where
the root and the category head are joined with a non–phase head, here tense.
If these terminal nodes are all sent for spell-out at the same time, could the
non–phase head condition contextual allosemy of the root over the category
(phase) head?
As an example of the kind of data that supported the phase-based locality
constraints on contextual allosemy, consider the verb to hou[z]e from the root
HOUSE, which shows contextual allomorphy (special voicing of the final
fricative in the environment of the little v head) and contextual allosemy (no
literal house nor even a literal container is implied by the verb).5
One can
also make a verb from the noun house, with a meaning “do something with
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 103
houses,” as in “He took a bunch of plastic models and housed the room in
revenge [filled the room with the houses].” This verb has the “literal” (nominal)
reading of the root HOUSE as well as the default phonological form, with a
voiceless fricative /s/. Here, the little n head blocks both contextual allomorphy
and contextual allosemy because the v head sends the n head plus root for
interpretation, without being part of the spell-out domain and thus without
providing context for the interpretation of the root. In addition, the root does
combine semantically with the little n head, creating the nominal “house”
reading. So the lack of contextual allosemy here is overly determined.
The claim that outer derivational morphology cannot determine special
meanings for a root has been challenged in the literature. One set of challenges
is the topic of the next section; these would constitute true counterexamples
if they did in fact involve stacked category-determining heads. However,
another set of examples from Borer, Goldberg, Harley, and others (see, e.g.,
Harley 2011) do not seem to actually hit the mark. Understanding why requires
better explication of what root allosemy comes to.
First, we must clarify the distinction between homophony and polysemy.
Two different roots, in the linguistically relevant sense, can share a phonologi-
cal form, yielding homophony as in bank (the side of the river) and bank
(where you keep your money). Much psycho- and neurolinguistic research has
contrasted the processing of homophones like bank and roots like table, which
show a variety of related meanings (furniture, organization of numbers and
figures, etc.). This work supports the linguistic conclusion that homophones
involve separate lexical entries (stored information about the root as mor-
pheme) that just happen to include identical phonological representations,
while polysemes involve different semantic interpretations associated with a
single lexical entry for a root.6
While not underestimating the difficulty of
deciding whether a given case of ambiguity of interpretation of a root (identi-
fied by its phonology) involves homophony or polysemy, nor the problem of
understanding how children learn about polysemy, for present purposes we
will make a cut between different roots that happen to be pronounced the same
(homophony) and a single root, with potentially varied (but related) semantic
interpretations (polysemy). The theory of contextual allosemy is the theory
about what governs the choice of meaning for a polysemous root.
For the theory of root meanings, it is useful to distinguish at least two
dimensions of variation in meaning. First, as explained, for example, by Levin-
son 2010 among others, roots can be seen as belonging to semantic types
associated with the meanings of the category heads n, a, and v. If the usual
interpretation of v is to introduce an event variable, of a to introduce a state
variable, and of n to introduce an entity variable, then “verbal” roots are those
104 Chapter 6
that modify events, “adjectival” roots those that modify states, and “nominal”
roots those that modify entities. There are certain natural, systematic meaning
alternations associated with these categories such that an entity modifier, for
example, naming the product of a verb of creation (braid), also has a related
use as a “manner” adverbial, modifying an activity (as in “They braided their
way through two movies and countless commercials,” where the root provides
a manner reading; see Levinson 2010). In the context of a little v head, then,
a root that might normally be given an entity-modifying meaning might receive
an event-modifying manner reading, in a sort of type-shifting allosemy. It is
of course a matter of intense research and discussion how best to treat this sort
of allosemy formally—for example, whether to employ a typed meaning
analysis for roots and attribute this allosemy to actual type shifting or whether
to employ a different sort of semantic theory that might leave the semantic
category of roots unchanged in this type of allosemy. Whatever the ultimate
story here, the sorts of meaning shifts for roots identified with this kind of
lexical category shift should fall under the theory of contextual allosemy being
developed in this chapter.
In addition to potential type-shifting polysemy, there are systematic seman-
tic relations between meanings associated with polysemy that involve related
meanings of the same type. So, for example, consider the “abstract” and “con-
crete” meanings associated with globe—meaning a sphere or something
spherelike, as well as “the world.” In the context of a little n head (“a globe”),
the root can mean “spherical” (a glass globe Christmas ornament) or “this
(whole) planet” (this troubled globe)—no choice is made at this head, so either
meaning is possible. If we create an adjective out of the root, global, the world/
planet reading is picked by little a. This reading and not the “sphere” reading
then is preserved in further derivation, as in globalize, which does not mean
“make into a sphere.”7
Similar types of polysemy might be those described
as “metonymy,” as for novel, meaning the artistic work or the physical
volume. While either meaning is available for the root novel in the context of
little n, when a verb is formed from the root, the artistic-work meaning is
chosen, such that novelize means make into a (fictional) story, not make into
a physical book.
The claim that the meaning of a root is fixed in combination with a phase
(category) head, then, should be understood as the claim that polysemy is
resolved in the domain of the first category head combining with the root.
Where more than one meaning of a polysemous root is allowed for a given
category head, this is an example of “free variation” for semantic combina-
tion—the ambiguity appears to be carried up the structure because either
semantic variant of the root is possible in the given environment. What is ruled
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 105
out is semantic flip-flopping—the choice of one meaning in the context of the
first category head, with a switch back to a different meaning at the next cat-
egory head, as in the example of globalize switching back to the “concrete-
sphere” meaning, after the adjective chooses the abstract “world” meaning in
the construction of global.8
To further clarify the scope of this predicted ban on flip-flopping, consider
the nominal, novelization. The root novel, like other roots that determine refer-
ence to the result of writing, can mean either a physical object (“the novel on
my table weighs two pounds”) or a work of art (“the novel on my table is
gripping”). The verb novelize seems to resist any meaning that involves the
physical-object alloseme of the root; “The magician novelized the hapless
author, turning him into a two-pound volume on the bookshelf of his office,”
requires a very self-conscious, joke reading that is hard to compute. The pre-
diction of the proposed analysis of contextual allosemy is that further deriva-
tion cannot choose the physical-object alloseme of novel over the verbalizing
head that has chosen the abstract reading: novelization cannot mean “the creat-
ing of a physical book,” as in “The novelization of those particular 200 sheets
of paper would serve no good purpose.”
Apparent counterexamples in the literature to this claim of the local deter-
mination of root meanings conflate “idiomatic” special meanings with poly-
semy. For example, Harley (2011) points out that nationalize has a meaning
of “make into a government-owned/operated business” that is not predictable
from the meaning of national. However, the choice of alloseme of the root
nation in nationalize is not distinct from that in national; rather, the meaning
of nationalize is just very specific and tied to world knowledge about govern-
ments, and so on. Similarly, to choose an example from Borer, existentialism,
as a belief system, holds a meaning that is not predictable from exist or exis-
tence, but the allosemes of exist and existence in existentialism seem the same
as those in the embedded verb and noun built on the root.
Clearly complex words can acquire special meanings and uses; like phrases,
complex words can be idiomatic in the sense of conveying meanings not
computable from the meanings of their parts. Marantz (2001) is confusing if
not simply wrong in conflating the notion of “idiom” with the notion of
“special meaning” or “meaning choice” associated with polysemy. For the
issue of root (and likely functional morpheme) polysemy, the relevant locality
domain for “fixing” meaning appears to be the phase, while for idioms, the
domain is clearly larger. For example, “the bucket,” in “kick the bucket,”
should contain a locality domain in which the root bucket finds its meaning
among the choices available (here, most likely the physical bucket, as opposed
to a “large measure” as in a “bucket of trouble”) before the noun phrase is
106 Chapter 6
merged into the idiomatic vP. Idioms, then, involve a type of meaning that is
built on top of polysemy resolution. Harley (2011) and Anagnostopoulou and
Samioti (forthcoming) both support Marantz’s (1997) claim that idiom forma-
tion seems constrained to the domain of an external argument. Since verbs
may contain a voice that projects an external argument, derivation on agentive
verbs can be idiom-resistant in a way that derivation on verbal roots is not—an
important finding, as Harley (2011) makes clear. Here we are interested in
cases of derivation that appears to choose a root alloseme over a category-
determining head, in violation of the (much stronger) phase-based locality
restriction on contextual allosemy.
6.4 Canonical Counterexamples to a Phase Domain for Contextual Allosemy
Although the literature is full of examples of idiomatic “special meanings”
spanning phase boundaries in a way that clearly falsifies any equation of
“phase” (spell-out domain of a phase head) with the domain of special mean-
ings or meaning determination, the counterexamples to the claim that contex-
tual allosemy is computed within the spell-out domain of a phase head are
quite rare. Nevertheless, a particular form of counterexample does appear, in
Japanese, Greek, and English. In all these cases, apparent deverbal derivation,
built on stems with phonologically overt verbalizing morphology, chooses a
meaning for the root that is not built on the meaning of the embedded verb.
Volpe (2005) presents Japanese data precisely as a challenge to the claim
that the root meaning must be fixed within the domain of the first phase head
up from the root in the derivation. His data are particularly interesting because
his analysis builds on an important, well-studied area of Japanese syntax and
morphology: lexical causatives and the causative/inchoative alternation. Japa-
nese inchoative/lexical causative pairs built on the same root are famous for
showing different patterns of morphological expression. Sometimes it seems
that the causative version is morphologically marked with respect to the incho-
ative version; sometimes the inchoative version is morphologically marked
with respect to the causative. And sometimes the causative bears what looks
like the regular, syntactic causative ending -sase.
Miyagawa (e.g., 1998, 1999) summarizes his and others’ work on lexical
causatives in Japanese; although aspects of the analysis are open to debate, there
seems overwhelming support for analyzing the suffixes signaling either the
lexical causative as opposed to the inchoative or the inchoative as opposed to
the lexical causative as realizations of a little v head attaching to the root. For
present purposes, perhaps the most crucial part of the consensus analysis
of Japanese lexical causatives is the distinction between lexical causatives,
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 107
involving a v attaching to a root, and syntactic causatives, which arguably involve
a higher v taking at least a lower vP as a complement. There are fairly straight-
forward ways of identifying lexical causatives and distinguishing them from
syntactic causatives. For example, the lexical causative, but not the syntactic
causative, may be used in an “adversative” causative construction. And one can
create a syntactic causative on top of a lexical causative (by affixing -sase), but
one cannot create a lexical causative from a lexical causative or a syntactic
causative from a syntactic causative (with stacked -sase’s). Lexical causatives
can have idiomatic readings not predictable from the meanings of their roots,
while syntactic causatives always display compositional meanings.
The analysis of lexical causatives consistent with Miyagawa and Volpe
involves a little v head attaching to a root, where this causative “flavor” of
little v can be switched for an inchoative “flavor,” often spelled out differently
phonologically, creating the transitive (causative)/intransitive (inchoative)
pairs we see in table 6.1 from Volpe, along with his proposed structure for the
nominalizations in the fourth column.
(4) n d-ashi ‘soup stock’
n
v (1st phase)
d [CAUSE]
-ase
Given the strong support for identifying the phonologically overt affixes creating
the causative and inchoative Japanese verbs as little v’s, Volpe finds that nomi-
nalizations built outside the little v head in Japanese using the “continuative”
morpheme as in table 6.1 often involve special meanings of the root triggered
across the little v head. That is, the meaning of such nominalizations is not
compositional, given the meaning of the verbs. (Explaining the VI(s) for “con-
tinuative” and their ultimate phonological realization would take us beyond the
limited scope of this chapter; the reader is invited to consult any standard refer-
ence grammar of Japanese for a description of the formation of the “continua-
tive” and its various uses within Japanese.) Crucially, Volpe argues that not even
the contrastive causative/inchoative meaning associated with the overt little v
heads in these nominalizations is used or preserved in the meaning of the noun.
For example, there is nothing about the meaning of ko-e “manure” that suggests
the inchoative of “to become fat,” nor is the meaning of sag-ari “hand-me-down”
particularly compatible with the inchoative on which it is based morphophono-
logically, as opposed to the causative.
108 Chapter 6
If we take Volpe’s description of the data as essentially correct, and the “con-
tinuative” ending in these nouns is actually conditioning a special meaning of
the root (in the sense of an alloseme of the root), then two conditions would
have to hold for these forms to obey the locality constraints on contextual
allosemy supported in this chapter. First, in contrast to Volpe’s analysis in (4),
the continuative ending would need not to be, essentially, a little n head so that
it would not constitute a phase head. To condition contextual allosemy on the
root, it must fall within the same spell-out domain of the root, and thus not itself
define its complement as a spell-out domain. Second, the little v head, although
phonologically overt, must be semantically null or inactive. For the continuative
to condition contextual allosemy on the root, it must be semantically adjacent
to the root, without the v head getting in the way semantically.
Even without providing a technically complete analysis of these Japanese
nouns, we can see how they in fact meet these two conditions. The continuative
is an inflected form of the Japanese verb, used in a variety of constructions;
it is “inflectional” rather than “derivational” in the sense that it does not by
itself change lexical category. To conjugate a verb, you must know its continu-
ative form—that is, the form is paradigmatic within the inflectional system of
Japanese. The form of a verb in the continuative, then, might be compared to
a participle in Indo-European languages.
And we have already seen evidence that the little v head does not contribute
semantically to the meaning of the noun. These nouns are not essentially result
nouns (they do not require, for their meaning, that an event took place) and, as
argued by Volpe, they do not preserve in any way the meaning of the little v that
distinguishes causatives from inchoatives, although their phonological spell-out
Table 6.1
Japanese Nominalizations from Volpe (2005)
Root Verb-INTRANS Verb-TRANS Nominalization
√ko(y)- ko-e-(ru-NON-PAST)
‘to become fat’
koy-as-(u-NON-PAST)
‘to fatten’
ko-e ‘manure’
√nag- nag-e-(ru) ‘to flow’ nag-as-(u) ‘to make
flow’
nag-ashi ‘a sink’
√d- d-e-(ru) ‘to exit’ d-as-(u) ‘to expel’ d-ashi ‘soup stock’
√sag- sag-ar-(u) ‘to be
lowered’
sag-e-(ru) ‘to lower’ (o)sag-ari
‘hand-me-
downs’
√mag- mag-ar-(u) ‘to
bend’
mag-e-(ru) ‘to bend’ mag-e ‘a topknot,
chignon’
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 109
does respect this distinction. (Some verbal roots build this type of noun from the
causative, some from the inchoative, and a few build one noun from each alter-
nant.) So the nouns behave as if the key semantics of little v—the introduction of
an event variable, with a value of causative or inchoative—has been ignored in the
meaning of the nouns. The crucial aspects of the Japanese examples that make
them examples of local contextual allosemy rather than counterexamples to local-
ity claims are (1) the absence of a verbal event meaning within the nominalizations
and (2) a nonphasal (“inflectional”) trigger for the construction.
Technically, we require a number of additional things to make this analysis
work formally. First, it is necessary that the difference between causative and
inchoative values of little v be syntactic, since this information is available for
VI at the PF interface even when it is not used semantically (see the discussion
in Marantz 2012). Second, the continuative head must be allowed to choose
an alloseme of the little v head that is semantically null, as well as an alloseme
of the root that creates in essence the meaning of a bound nominal root,
wishing to combine semantically with a head that introduces an entity variable.
So the whole continuative form of the verb must combine with a null little n
head to yield a usable semantic value. As far as I can tell, these necessary
ingredients for a contextual allosemy analysis of the Japanese nominalizations
are all reasonable, but this broad promissory note for an analysis needs to be
cashed in with a systematic analysis of a chunk of Japanese.
Again targeting the claims in Marantz 2001, Anagnostopoulou and Samioti
(forthcoming) (hereafter, A&S) present another potential counterexample to
the phase-based locality domain for contextual allosemy on a root, here from
Greek. As with the Japanese example just discussed, A&S are building on and
extending a long, deep, and convincing literature on Greek participles that lays
the groundwork for their claims. Their paper reviews the literature on Greek
stative participles, in particular on the distinction between stative participles
in -t-os and those in -men-os (the -o-s pieces of the ending are case/number/
gender morphology of the adjectival/nominal sort that may vary to agree with
a noun when the participles are used in verbal or adjectival contexts). In
general, they argue, following previous analyses, -menos attaches to verbs
preserving an event interpretation associated with the event variable introduced
by little v while -tos attaches directly to roots, to create adjectives (or nouns)
that do not imply an event.
There are interesting systematic exceptions to this general distinction
between -tos and -menos that A&S review, but the center of their discussion
relevant to the present chapter is a set of -tos participles that show the same
syntactic and semantic behavior as -tos participles arguably built on roots (and
not verbs) but that phonologically look like they are built on verbs with overt
110 Chapter 6
little v verbalizing morphology. In addition to not displaying the semantics
(and associated syntax) of an embedded little v, these participles sometimes
show special or unique meanings for their roots, meanings not associated with
the verb outside the -tos construction. Examples of these stative adjectives,
and their corresponding verb forms, are shown in (5). Here, the special mean-
ings are not obvious, but the initially remarkable fact about the -tos participles
is their co-occurrence with overt little v morphology, where stative -tos without
eventive semantics usually attaches directly to a root morphophonologically.
(5) Anagnostopoulou and Samioti, forthcoming. -tos statives (or nominals)
with special meanings
a. axn-is-tos ‘steaming hot’ axn-iz-o ‘steam’
b. koudoun-is-tos ‘ringing’ koudon-iz-o ‘ring (a bell)’
c. magir-ef-tos ‘cooked’ magir-ev-o ‘cook’
As A&S make clear, “Crucially, these verbalizers [in (5)] do not introduce
an event variable and, therefore, -tos participles never have event implications
(and the syntactic properties associated with an event interpretation).” Exam-
ples with more obvious root allosemy are shown in (6). Note that the “base”
verb for the -tos participle need not exhibit a literal meaning as a participle,
as in (6c).
(6) Idiomatic interpretation of root-v-tos
a. kol-a-o kol-i-tos ‘close friend’
glue-1sg lit. glued
b. xtip-a-o xtipl-i-tos ‘striking’
bang, hit-1sg lit. whipped
c. xon-ev-o xon-ef-tos ‘inside the wall’
digest no lit. meaning
A&S point to an interesting generalization about the roots in these apparent
counterexamples to the claim that noneventive -tos participles are built from
roots rather than verbs: the roots in these words are arguably nominal, adjec-
tival, or uncategorized roots—they are not semantically verbal roots (event
modifiers). The intuition is that the -t- participle morpheme requires a verbal
stem syntactically.9
At semantic interpretation, however, the semantics of the
v node can be ignored and the -t- can create a meaning directly from the
root.
We find in the Greek -t-os forms the necessary pieces to remove them from
the list of counterexamples to the locality of allosemy on the root. The little
v head that intervenes syntactically and phonologically between the trigger
of allosemy, the participle -t- head, and the root is semantically null, not
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 111
contributing an event variable to the construction, which then lacks the syntax
and semantics of an event. In addition, the participle head itself is arguably
not a little a or n head but rather part of the inflectional domain in Greek. So,
the participle head would choose the null alloseme of the little v head, as well
as determining the alloseme of the root that it attaches to directly, semantically.
Combining with the root, it creates a derived root meaning, and thus a semantic
bound root that will require a little a or n head to combine with. As in Japanese,
we may assume that the actual category-determining head in the Greek con-
structions is phonologically null.
The structure of these almost counterexamples to the locality of contextual
allosemy from Japanese and Greek is so similar that they point directly to
where we might find a similar class of examples in English. What we would
look for is an adjective or noun produced from a verb created with an overt
little v (e.g., -ize) and overt participle morphology (-ed or -ing) where the
meaning of the word does not include an event variable—that is, does not
include the meaning usually associated with a little v head. Such cases are
found in (7a–c). The examples in (7d–f) are provided for contrast; here the
root is categorized by an overt little a head realized by -al phonologically.
Since the input to the little v head is itself a typed constituent, the root is
blocked from contextual allosemy triggered by the participle head over a
potentially semantically null little v head.
(7) English shows predicted “counterexamples” with stative passives
outside -ize little v on “nominal” roots
a. quantized energy
b. pulverized lime
c. atomized individual
d. globalized universe
e. nationalized island
f. fictionalized account
In (7a), quantized energy has a reading, “energy in quantum units,” that does
not imply any event of creating these units. Similarly, pulverized lime can
mean “lime in powder form” without the implication of crushing. Finally, an
atomized individual is one separated from society, but not necessary separated
via any event of separation. In contrast, a globalized universe cannot mean a
round universe or a universe that consists just of our world, but must be
a universe that has been made global (not an easy reading to construct).
Similarly, a nationalized island must be one that has been nationalized,
not an island nation or an island of nations—perhaps an island taken by the
government from private ownership. And a fictionalized account must have
112 Chapter 6
undergone a process of transformation from nonfiction to fiction; it cannot be
simply a made-up story (not simply a fiction(al) account).
As in the Japanese and Greek cases discussed above, the head triggering
the special meanings of the root here in the English cases is crucially not itself
a category head. The stative passive -ed in (7) is quite parallel to the Greek
-t-, and has also been argued to be able to attach directly to roots in stative
passives with special meanings (e.g., in a “hung jury”). Arguably a participle
head, the -ed in (7a–c) would choose a null semantic alloseme of the v head
of its stem (avoiding any event interpretation) and attach semantically directly
to the root, creating a derived bound root of an appropriate sort to modify a
little n or little a head. So the stem created by the participle heads in (7a–c)
would need a phonologically null a or n head to attach to to complete these
forms syntactically and semantically. That is, quantized is not an adjective
because the participle ending realizes an a head from the syntax but because
the participle creates a bound stem that syntactically merges with an a head,
which ends up being phonologically null.10
6.5 Conclusion
To review, I have argued here that the general phase-based architecture of the
Minimalist Program with Distributed Morphology can be seen as imposing
locality constraints on the context for contextual allomorphy and contextual
allosemy. The facts as we see them are consistent with the “single-phase”
hypothesis that the spell-out domains for the PF and LF interfaces are the
same, defined by the same phase heads.
Each phase head sends its complement domain for interpretation. This
includes previously interpreted phases, elements moved to the edges of those
previous phases, and non–phase heads in the “extended projection” of a
selected complement to the phase head. So, for example, the C phase head
would send the as-yet-uninterpreted vP for interpretation, plus elements moved
to the edge of the vP, plus modifiers of the v, like the verbal root, and the T,
Neg, and aspect heads, if any, in the extended projection of v. Included within
this domain would be already-spelled-out parts of the vP, in the complement
domain of v(+voice), whose semantic and phonological values would be com-
bined with the elements of the new spell-out domain.
In addition to the demand that the context for contextual allomorphy/
allosemy be local to the spell-out domain, considerations of phonological and
semantic composition lead to an additional constraint on local context: Only
accessible features of a constituent that combines with a head h within the
spell-out phase of h may serve as context for contextual allomorphy/allosemy,
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 113
where “combines with” means phonological adjacency at PF and semantic
adjacency at LF. So, phonological nulls will not get in the way of phonological
adjacency (if they are part of the same spell-out domain as the constituents on
either side) and semantic nulls will not get in the way of semantic adjacency.
Since the two interfaces are connected only via the syntax, the phonological
nullness of a constituent cannot be (directly) relevant to semantic interpreta-
tion, and we expect that phonologically non-null heads might be semantically
null at LF and vice versa, leading to apparent exceptions to the claim that the
locality domains for contextual allomorphy and contextual allosemy are the
same.
I reviewed three cases from different languages where the proposed con-
straint on contextual allosemy appears to be violated. In each case, a mor-
pheme that is arguably not itself a category head, and thus not a phase head,
conditions allosemy on a root over a phonologically overt little v head. In each
case, however, the semantics of this little v head are suppressed (nonexistent)
within the derived word. This sort of situation exactly parallels the apparent
long-distance contextual allomorphy in the case of the English past tense,
where a non–phase head, the past tense, conditions contextual allomorphy of
the root over a phonologically null little v head. The strong prediction of the
theory of contextual allomorphy/allosemy proposed in this chapter is that all
apparent counterexamples to the locality of the triggering context for the
allomorphy/allosemy should conform to this pattern. In particular, the inter-
vening phase head should be relevantly null (phonologically null for contextual
allomorphy; semantically null for contextual allosemy) and the triggering head
should not itself be a lexical category determiner—that is, not a phase head.
Notes
I would like to thank Ora Matushansky, Dave Embick, Heidi Harley, Tatjana Marvin,
and Elena Anagnostopoulou for their comments on earlier versions of this work, as
well as Allyson Ettinger, for editorial assistance. This work was supported in part by
grant G1001 from the NYUAD Institute, NewYork University Abu Dhabi, and by grant
No. BCS-0843969 from the National Science Foundation.
1. The name Distributed Morphology is from David Pesetsky, suggested at a meeting
that Morris, David, and I had to discuss where morphology was going in the early
1990s. Originally, the term was intended to invoke current ideas of David, Hagit Borer,
Mark Baker, and others that distributed the work of morphology and word formation
across different places in the grammar. For example, Pesetsky (1985) argues that parts
of words undergo QR at LF to establish the semantic scope of morphemes that start
out as parts of words in the syntax, putting morphological matters outside the lexicon
and into the syntax, broadly construed. Over the years, particularly in the wake of Halle
and Marantz 1993, the term Distributed Morphology has narrowed in usage to refer to
114 Chapter 6
the particular set of assumptions of Halle and Marantz 1993, 1994, and other work that
takes Halle and Marantz 1993 as its starting point.
2. For present purposes, we could equivalently say that the allomorph of TEACH is /
tɔt/ in the presence of past, with the past-tense allomorph being zero.
3. Tatjana Marvin points out that the inclusion of the root, little v, and some inflection
(here the past tense) within the same spell-out domain seems in conflict with any easy
equation of spell-out domain with the notion of “cyclic domain” required for phonol-
ogy. In particular, there is evidence that the stem in English verbs is subject to cyclic
phonological rules prior to the phonological inclusion of progressive -ing (cf. the classic
contrast between the two-syllable pronunciation of the noun lightening and the three-
syllable pronunciation of the progressive of the verb lightening, where the schwa in
the verbal stem is arguably preserved via cyclic rule application, if the verbal stem
constitutes a cycle). Bobaljik (2008) discusses evidence that the verbal root, but not
the nominal root, constitutes a cyclic domain in a variety of language, accounting for
phonological contrasts between verbs and nouns. Within the present framework, this
pattern of data could indicate that spell-out domains and phonological cycles should
simply not be equated; sometimes a single spell-out domain might contain multiple
cycles, where a phonological cycle is determined by phonological properties of VIs
and of structures of morphemes. However, further research may find that there is addi-
tional structure in the relevant cases for verbs that induces a spell-out domain just where
a phonological cycle is motivated.
4. The contrast between phase heads and non–phase heads in their ability to trigger
contextual allosemy on the heads of their complements will be crucial in the examples
to be discussed below. In particular, in the case of the Japanese, Greek, and English
examples, a non–phase head will cause a little v head within its complement domain
to receive a null interpretation, with the result that there is no event interpretation
present within the derived words. The theoretical apparatus of this chapter predicts that
a phase head, say a category node, could not choose a null alloseme of a little v head,
restricting the phenomena discussed below to situations in which a non–phase head is
involved in creating nouns and adjectives.
5. The plural of house, houses, also contains the contextual allomorph of the stem with
the voiced fricative. Within the current framework, this fact suggests that plural is a
non–phase head similar to past, with irregular plurals and irregular past tenses receiving
similar treatment. In this context, we should note that the present theory does not
predict that the plural of computer mouse should necessarily be computer mouses as
opposed to computer mice. If (computer) mouse is formed from the noun mouse, with
an additional little n head, then the plural should be mouses, parallel to the past tense
of a verb house formed from the noun house being hou[st]. However, the computer-
input-device meaning of mouse could involve contextual allosemy of the root mouse
in the environment of little n. In that case, the irregular plural mice would still be avail-
able, given the presence of the root, the n head, and plural in the same spell-out domain
and the phonological emptiness of the VI realizing the n head. Variation between mice
and mouses in discussions of computers could then involve structural ambiguity in the
analysis of (computer) mouse.
6. See Simon, Lewis, and Marantz 2012 and the references cited there. I should note
here that different researchers and different research traditions make different cuts
Locality Domains for Contextual Allomorphy across the Interfaces 115
among “polysemy,” “homophony,” and “vagueness.” Here I try to clarify what’s crucial
for the present discussion in distinguishing homophony and polysemy by providing
specific relevant examples.
7. Apparently some speakers also allow the “sphere” reading of globe in global,
making global a synonym of globular. For these speakers, the little a is not choosing
an alloseme of the stem, and so both meanings are carried up to the adjective. However,
the “sphere” reading is not preserved by -ize in globalize for these speakers either, and
so cannot be revived in globalization.
8. Heidi Harley brings up the interesting case of hospitality. Here, from a root hospit-,
English creates both a noun, hospital, and an adjective, hospitable. Hospitality, which
seems to involve the n-forming -ity attaching to hospital, does not preserve the contex-
tual meaning of the root found in hospital, but does seem to be related to the meaning
of the root in hospitable. We know that -ity likes to attach to adjectives in -al and -able
but otherwise generally attaches to roots (see Embick and Marantz 2008). If hospital
were an adjective formed with -al, hospitality would be a counterexample to the claims
of this chapter, since -ity would seem to be choosing an alloseme of hospit- (the one
also chosen by -able in hospitable) over the adjective-forming -al. However, hospital
is a noun and thus arguably not the adjective base of hospitality. We seem here to have
a bound root hospital- that is perhaps an allomorph of the root hospit- in hospitable
and hospital, with the same alloseme as it has in hospitable but not hospital.
9. Harley suggests the possibility that the semantically vacuous, but phonologically
overt, v morphemes in Japanese and Greek might be inserted phonologically, rather
than syntactically, along lines suggested for do-insertion in English. Given the current
framework, the fact that the spell-out of the little v morphemes is contextually deter-
mined (roots pick different verbalizing suffixes) indicates that what is inserted must be
a morpheme in the syntax, rather than a VI in the morphophonology, and morphemes
are organized by syntactic structure, prior to phonological spell-out. Embick and Noyer
(2001) in fact argue that do-insertion itself must be syntactic.
10. Here it is worth reminding the reader that the ability of a non–phase head to
combine with a root to yield a special meaning over a syntactically active but semanti-
cally null category head does not predict that past-tense forms in English might have
special meanings not apparent for present-tense forms of the same verbs, parallel to
irregular past-tense forms showing phonologically special forms over a (phonologically
null) v head. If a past-tense verb is to have a past-tense meaning, it must combine
semantically with an event variable; therefore, a past-tense verb must have a semanti-
cally active v node and tense (with a tense reading) may not combine directly with the
root.
7
7.1 Introduction
The analysis of arbitrary morphological classes has a number of architectural
implications in Distributed Morphology (Halle and Marantz 1993). There is
no central repository of Saussurean ‘words’ in the framework—no sound-
meaning pairings that are the building blocks for both phonological and
semantic sentence-level representations. Instead, there are separate lists. One
list contains all syntactic and semantic information necessary for the derivation
of a well-formed LF representation, and forms the input to the syntactic deriva-
tion. A second list, the Vocabulary, describes the phonological realizations that
are inserted as exponents of particular syntactic terminal nodes, following all
syntactic operations. This raises the question of where class features are
located. What elements do rules which are sensitive to class membership refer
to? Are they sensitive to properties of the abstract syntacticosemantic forma-
tives of the first list? Or are they instead sensitive to properties of the phono-
logical exponents, the Vocabulary Items in the second list?
In Distributed Morphology, any features which are syntactically (and pos-
sibly semantically) active must be a property of the abstract morphemes which
are input to syntactic derivation. Embick and Halle (2005) treat even Latin
conjugation class features in this fashion, attaching them to the roots in the
first list, input to the syntax.
In contrast, we will argue that class features in Hiaki are not properties of
roots in the syntax but rather are properties of Vocabulary Items, the phono-
logical exponents inserted at the end of the syntactic derivation. Irregular
morphophonological rules (readjustment rules) apply to a particular class of
Vocabulary Items in the appropriate morphosyntactic environment. Classifica-
tions of this kind play no role in the syntactic/semantic computation, but are
crucial in triggering the application of the appropriate morphophonological
rule to yield the correct surface form in such cases. The existence of such
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki
Heidi Harley and Mercedes Tubino Blanco
118 Chapter 7
morphophonological classifications, irrelevant to syntax, is thus an argument
against the lexeme, as such, and in favor of the DM-style separation of the
two lists: List 1, input to the syntax (the source of the Numeration in Minimal-
ist syntactic theories), and List 2, Vocabulary Items which simply realize the
output of the syntax. Further, the Hiaki case provides a clear argument for
Vocabulary Insertion applying to Root elements (l-morphemes, in Harley and
Noyer 2000’s terminology), as well as to f-morphemes. In addition, the notion
of a phasal cycle within the word proves useful in permitting a simple state-
ment of the relevant conditioning context for the application of morphopho-
nological rules.
The Hiaki case presents many of the same morals for the architecture and the
notion of “stem” as the Latin perfect does, as elucidated in Embick and Halle
2005, but some of the issues arise in even starker relief due to the cross-categorial
nature of the stem classes, and especially due to the interaction of the stem
classes with suppletion, in particular with the suppletive roots of Hiaki.
7.2 Hiaki Stem Classes
In Hiaki (Yaqui), lexical stems have bound and free alternants. The bound
forms are used as the base for affixation of (broadly speaking) derivational
morphology, while the free forms are the base for affixation of (broadly speak-
ing) inflectional morphology, and also of course can stand alone, without any
affix. The bound and free stems for poona ‘play, beat’ and kiima ‘bring (pl.
obj)’ are illustrated in (1), the latter affixed with a derivational suffix.
(1) Free Bound
a. poona pon-tua
play play-caus
‘is playing’ ‘is making (someone) play’
b. kiima kima’a-tua
bring.pl bring.pl-caus
‘is bringing (things)’ ‘is making (someone) bring (things)’
An almost-complete list of the free-stem-selecting and bound-stem-select-
ing suffixes are listed in (2a) and (2b) respectively:
(2)
Bound-stem and free-stem suffixes of Hiaki (Harley and Tubino Blanco 2010)
a. Hiaki verbal suffixes that require the bound stem (in no particular order)
-tua (caus) -‘ea (desid) -su (compl) -se/-vo (go) -pea (desid)
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 119
-tevo (icaus) -ri (obj.ppl) -la (ppl) -taite (inch) -‘ii’aa (desid)
-ria (appl) -tu (become) -ri (ppl) -naate (inch) -hapte (inch)
-roka (quot) -vae (prosp) -le (consider) -wa (pass) -ne (irr)
-yaate (cess) -siime (go along) -sae (dir) -na (pass.irr)
b. Hiaki verbal suffixes that require the free stem (again in no particular order)
-k (perf) -ka (ppl) -n (p.impf) -kan (pst.impf) -o (if/when)
-‘u (obj.rel) me (subj.rel)
Note that a single word can and often does contain both derivational and
inflectional suffixes. In such cases, the derivational suffixes occur closer to the
stem than the inflectional one (as expected) and the bound-stem form is
chosen, as in, for example, the perfective form of the causative of (1a), pon-
tua-k ‘play-caus-perf’ (i.e., ‘made (someone) play’).1
While several of the free-stem suffixes are simple coda consonants, others
are CV or CVC syllables; many of the bound-stem suffixes are also CV syl-
lables, so it seems unlikely that the choice of bound or free stem is driven by
prosodic requirements. In addition to the suffixes listed in (2b), the bound-stem
form is also required for the nonhead member of any compound (verbal or
nominal); see section 7.3.2 for exemplification and discussion.
Harley and Tubino Blanco (2010) describe the various patterns of bound-
stem formation in verbs, distinguishing three primary stem classes and several
subclasses and irregularities. Classes are distinguished according to the shape
of the bound stem and the nature of its relationship to the free stem. We sum-
marize these below.
The three primary classes, comprising dozens of exemplars each, are
distinguished by whether the stem form is a truncated version of the free
form (Class 1), an augmented version containing an extra syllable of the
form -ʔV, where the vowel is a copy of the final vowel of the stem
(Class 2), or identical to the free form (Class 3). Each type is exemplified in
table 7.1.
It is important to note that vowel shortening in the stem forms is a regular
process in the language, which usually occurs quite generally, under any kind
of affixation, to free as well as bound stems. A change from long to short
vowel between free and bound forms, then, is not part of the stem-formation
process, but rather a regular phonological rule of the language triggered by
any kind of affixation.
120 Chapter 7
Table 7.1
Major stem-alternation classes of Hiaki
Class 1: Truncation Class 2: Echo-vowel
Free Bound English Free Bound English
a. poona
b. miika
c. bwase
pon-
mik-
bwas-
‘pound’
‘give’
‘cook (intr)’
a. bwasa
b. kiima
c. yoore
bwasa’a-
kima’a-
yore’e-
‘cook (tr)’
‘bring (pl)’
‘heal’
Class 3: Invariant
Free Bound English
a. kivacha
b. hamta
c. suua
kivacha-
hamta-
sua-
‘bring (sg)’
‘break’
‘care.for’
There are several minor subclasses of stems. Three of these minor classes
are listed in table 7.2. Another group of subclasses contains free forms which
end in two distinct vowels (usually separated by a glottal stop, but sometimes
not, or optionally so). Their corresponding bound stem is created by changing
the second of the two vowels to match the first; a glottal may appear in the
bound form even if it is absent in the free form (table 7.3). In addition to these
groups of forms, there are a number of effectively irregular forms, whose
bound stems are not related to their free forms according to any of the patterns
exemplified in the accompanying tables, or to any other pair that we know of.
A sampling of these unique cases is given in (3).
(3) Irregular free~bound pairs
a. yepsa → yevih- ‘arrive (sg)’
b. suulu → suluu- ‘slide, slip’
c. sevea → seve- ‘catch a cold, get cold’
d. suawa → suan- ‘be watched’
e. kepe → kup- ‘close one’s eyes’
f. hia → hiu- ‘vocalize’
g. ho’otia → ho’otiu- ‘snore’
h. ve’a → vi’i- ‘save, reserve’
An important fact to note about all the bound-stem forms, of whatever class,
is that they are phonologically related to their free forms. Consonantal material
is not affected by the alternation, with one or two types of exceptions (the
general s→h / ______ C pattern, and the restricted v→ p and ch→t alterna-
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 121
Table 7.2
Minor stem alternation subclasses
Subclass i: -e → -i Subclass ii: e’e → -i’i-
Free Bound English Free Bound English
a. hamte
b. chihakte
c. yu’e
d. vuite
hamti-
chihakti-
yu’i-
vuiti-
‘break (intr)’
‘smash’
‘undo’
‘run (sg)’
a. he’e
b. ne’e
c. ye’e
d. che’e
hi’i-
ni’i-
yi’i-
chi’i
‘drink’
‘fly’
‘dance’
‘suckle’
Subclass iii: -u → -oe
Free Bound English
a. kiimu
b. vaasu
kimoe-
vasoe-
‘bring (sg)’
‘soak’
Table 7.3
Vowel-copying subclasses
Subclass iv: -o’a/-oa → -o’o-/-oo- Subclass v: -e’a → -e’e-
Free Bound English Free Bound English
a. hi’ivoa
b. hovoa
c. ko’a
d. to’a
hi’ivoo-
hovo’o-
ko’o-
to’o-
‘cook’
‘get full’
‘chew’
‘pour, lay down (pl)’
a. eo’ote’a
b. ea
c. me’a
eo’ote’e-
ee-
me’e-
‘be nauseated’
‘feel’
‘kill (sg)’
Subclass vi: -a’e → -a’a- Subclass vii: -u’e/-u’a→ -u’u-
Free Bound English Free Bound English
a. bwa’e bwa’a- ‘eat’ a. nu’e
b. yu’a
nu’u-
yu’u-
‘get, acquire’
‘push’
122 Chapter 7
tions). Similarly, the vowel in the first syllable of the stem is not affected by the
free/bound alternation, the only exceptions being the e→i alternations in sub-
class (ii) and (3h), and the irregular kepe→kup- pair in (3e). To the best of our
knowledge, there are no suppletive bound-stem forms in the language—there
is no case in which the bound form is phonologically unrelated to the free form.
(There is considerable suppletion in the language, as discussed in section 7.4,
but it is never conditioned by the bound-stem/free-stem alternation.)
Below, following Embick and Halle (2005), we will build an argument from
these Hiaki facts against the listing of stem forms in Hiaki. Rather, we will
argue that the bound-stem forms should be derived via the application of
readjustment rules—phonological rules restricted to apply to only a given
group of Vocabulary Items, which apply following Vocabulary Insertion—
rather than by competition for exponence of a given Root node.
7.3 Listedness vs. Readjustment: Stems in Distributed Morphology
We now turn to a discussion of the theoretical implications of the Hiaki free-
and bound-stem forms. First we review the conclusions of Embick and Halle
(2005) concerning the superflous nature of the notion of ‘stem’ in Distributed
Morphology. We then present two arguments against the notion of listing of
stem forms in Hiaki, along the lines of the argumentation Embick and Halle
(2005) present against the proposal of Aronoff (1994) concerning the listing
of Latin verb-stem forms.
7.3.1 On the Nonlistedness of Stems in DM: Embick and Halle (2005)
Embick and Halle (2005) provide an extended discussion of the status of the
notion “stem” in Distributed Morphology. In particular, they reprise the argu-
ment against the position of Anderson (1992) according to which different but
phonologically related stem forms such as sing~sang are listed, competing
with each other for exponence in the same way that distinct, listed suppletive/
allomorphic forms such as go~went or -ed~-t do.2
Their conclusion, echoing
the discussion of Marantz (1997) and Halle and Marantz (1993), is that such
alternations are substantially different from suppletive cases, the latter being
truly rare within and across languages. If the sing~sang alternation is treated
via listing and competition, exactly as suppletion is treated, the theory itself
imposes no principled distinction between suppletion and restricted but basi-
cally phonological alternations; the result is simply a cline from maximal
irregularity to complete irregularity. In contrast, if the vowel change in
sing~sang is implemented by a morphophonological readjustment rule, it is
expected that such alternations should behave in accordance with normal
phonological patterns, which, by and large, they do.
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 123
Halle and Embick propose a treatment of Latin verb formation in response to
a stem-storage model proposed by Aronoff (1994). In their account, a particular
set of readjustment rules are triggered in the environment of a certain exponent
of the Asp node, thus explaining the appearance of a selectional relationship
between a particular stem form and those aspect exponents. A truly selectional
effect would require the listing of the stem form (so it could be selected for),
but given the independent necessity of readjustment rules, the fact that the same
effect can be captured via a restriction on a readjustment rule means that the
positing of a listed stem form to account for these cases is unmotivated.
We can easily imagine how a “listing” account of Hiaki verb-stem forms
would work. The free form of a given Hiaki verb and its bound form would
each be listed as alternate phonological forms for a single lexeme (or element
from List 1, in DM terms). One would be the Elsewhere form, inserted when
no more specific criterion is met. Although it might seem natural to assume
that the free form is the Elsewhere form, in fact it is easier to specify a unified
environment for occurrences of free Hiaki verb stems than for bound ones:
basically, the free form occurs whenever the verb is inflected, which we could
characterize as “whenever V is immediately adjacent to Asp0
” (which might,
of course, have a null realization, as in the present tense, producing the unaf-
fixed free forms). The bound stem, then, would be the elsewhere form, occur-
ring any time the verb was not adjacent to Asp0
, which in fact will be exactly
the set of environments in which it is affixed with derivational morphology.
To illustrate how such a “listing” analysis would play out, Vocabulary Insertion
rules of this kind for poona ‘play.instrument’ (Truncation class), bwasa ‘cook’
(Echo Vowel class), and chihakte ‘smash’ (e→i class), as well as the unique
bound stem of hia ‘sound, vocalize’, are given below. An Invariant class item
like sova ‘roast’ would only have one listed form:
(4) a. [PON] V ‘play.instrument, strike’ → poona / ______ Asp0
pon Elsewhere
b. [BWASA’A]V ‘cook’ → bwasa / ______ Asp0
bwasa’a Elsewhere
c. [CHIHAKTI]V ‘smash’ → chihakte / ______ Asp0
chihakti Elsewhere
d. [HIU]V ‘sound’ → hia / ______ Asp0
hiu Elsewhere
e. [SOVA]V ‘roast’ → sova
We will see that such an account suffers two significant drawbacks, described
in the next section.
124 Chapter 7
7.3.2 The Nonlistedness of Hiaki Stem Forms: Two Problems
The “listing” account of Hiaki stem alternations described above suffers from two
substantial problems, the first of which is no doubt immediately obvious to the
reader. The first problem is lack of insight into the morphophonology of Hiaki,
the arbitrariness issue discussed by Embick and Halle (2005). Listed forms need
not bear any relationship to their other alternant or to each other. There is no reason
why they should fall into the general classes described in section 7.2, which are
characterizable in broadly phonological terms (Truncation, Echo Vowel, etc.).
Suppletive stem alternants should be possible, but do not occur. Positing stem
classes is motivated by such groups of forms, but the listing approach does not
reflect such groupings. In fact, the notion of “class” drops away entirely in such
an account; the fact that a substantial group of verbs have an echo vowel at the
end of their bound stem would be a simple coincidence. Indeed, there is consider-
able evidence supporting the psychological reality of synchronic rule application
in irregular morphophonological classes in other languages (see, e.g., Yang 2002;
Stockall and Marantz 2006). We assume that these Hiaki classes should be ana-
lyzed similarly to rule-based morphological classes in better-studied languages.3
The second problem arises from the fact, alluded to but not exemplified
above, that the bound versus free alternation is a property of nouns as well as
verbs in Hiaki, and that similar morphophonological processes derive bound
nominal stems; bound nominal stems seem to fall into the same general classes
that bound verbal stems do. Hiaki does not have as much robust derivational
morphology for nouns as it does for verbs, but nouns can undergo incorpora-
tion or compounding productively, and when they do, they occur in their bound
form. Consider the examples below.
(5) Free Bound
a. mama-m4
mam-pusiam Truncation
hand-pl hand-eyes
‘hand’ ‘fingers’
b. chiiva chiva’a-tu Echo Vowel5
‘goat’ goat-tu
‘billy goat’
c. avaso avas naawa Truncation
‘cottonwood’ ‘cottonwood root’
d. hi’u hi’u-se Invariant
‘greens’ green-V
‘collect greens’
These patterns are robustly attested across the nominal vocabulary as well
as in verbs. That is, all roots, not just verbal roots, have bound- and free-stem
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 125
forms. The problem this creates for a “listing” approach is that the contexts
that condition the appearance of each form are difficult to state in a unified
way, although descriptively, the contexts are clearly unified: inflectional mor-
phology, whether verbal or nominal, attaches to free forms; derivational mor-
phology attaches to bound forms.These are not the typical kinds of conditioning
environments for insertion rules, however. The rule above referred to Asp0
as
the conditioning context for the appearance of the free form, but this is obvi-
ously inadequate to characterize the nominal stem alternations in (5), which
do not appear in a verbal extended projection. To unify the conditions for the
insertion of the free form across nominal and verbal environments, a diacritic,
perhaps something like [+inflectional], would be required, since it would be
different inflectional categories, Asp0
in the case of verbs and probably Num0
in the case of nouns (cf. (5a)), which trigger the insertion of the free form.
Further, and more theory-internally, there is a problem of locality in stating
the conditioning environment. In DM, the fundamental lexical terminal nodes
are acategorial, provided with their nominal or verbal character by merger with
an n0
or v0
head, which, in a “listing” approach, intervenes between the √ element
being inserted and the supposedly conditioning inflectional category. (The acat-
egorial character of roots is supported by the fact that nouns and verbs are paral-
lel in having distinct stem forms with similar formation patterns.) The theory
does not make available any obvious notation that will ensure that just a single
x0
category intervenes between a terminal node and the inflectional category
which licenses the insertion of the free stem. A rule like that in (4) demanding
adjacency between a √ and some head with a [+inflect] diacritic is unworkable
even for underived nouns or verbs, since the v0
or n0
intervenes between the √
and the [+inflect] head above, so the free forms would never meet the licensing
criterion. Both simple nouns and verbs and those that undergo further derivation
require an x0
to be adjacent to the √, and so the contexts for √ spell-out are not
differentiated locally.6
A stem-insertion rule would have to make reference to a
complex hierarchical context like [ [ ______ x0
] X0
[+infl]] in order to even get the
facts descriptively correct.7
To recap: The first problem for a listing approach is the fact that there are
groups of lexical items whose free and bound forms appear to be related by
particular phonological processes. Positing stem classes is motivated by such
groups of forms, but the listing approach does not reflect such groupings. The
second problem is the difficulty of stating the correct morphosyntactic condi-
tioning environment for insertion of particular listed items, which crosscuts
lexical categories: insertion of the free form would have to be triggered by
diacritics such as [+inflect] occurring in a specific but nonlocal configuration
with respect to the conditioned root.
126 Chapter 7
Given that the notion of “stem-formation class” is appropriate in the char-
acterization of the Hiaki data, and that a listing approach fails to capture this
notion, what would a more successful proposal look like? We turn to this
question in the next section.
7.4 The Conditioning of Stem-Forming Readjustment Rules in Hiaki
Having dismissed the “listed-stem” approach, we next consider an alternative
more consonant with the conclusions of Embick and Halle (2005), according
to which the free/bound stem alternations are derived via morphophonological
readjustment rules conditioned by classes, aka lists of roots (which, in the case
of wholly irregular stem-forming rules, may just contain a single item). We
briefly sketch how the problem of stating the correct environment for the
application of such readjustment rules evaporates when we consider where the
morphosyntactic cycle, aka phase boundary, is located within the Hiaki word.
We then turn to our primary concern, which arises from the interaction of
suppletion with Hiaki stem alternations. We argue that the fact that distinct
suppletive realizations of the same root can belong to different form classes
shows that the stem-class features of Hiaki words are a property of Vocabulary
Items, not a property of the underlying abstract roots.
7.4.1 Readjustment Rules for Hiaki Stem Forms
Readjustment Rules apply to intermediate phonological representations during
the derivation from syntactic structure to phonological form, following Vocab-
ulary Insertion but prior to and consequently possibly bleeding the application
of the regular phonological processes. The sequence of operations that may
occur following spell-out, in the morphological component that maps syntactic
representations to phonological objects for interpretation by the sensorimotor
system, is illustrated in (6):
(6) Operations that may apply to a syntactic representation at spell-out
Lowering
Dissociated Impoverishment
Vocabulary
Linearization
→ Morphemes → Fission →
Insertion
Inserted Fusion
Readjustment Phonological
→
Rules
→
Rules
If Hiaki bound-stem forms are the result of applying Readjustment Rules to
free forms, they would involve phonological processes like prosodically driven
truncation (Class 1), affixation of CV syllable whose segmental content is
determined by (e.g.) left-to-right spreading (the echo vowel, Class 2), raising
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 127
of a final midfront vowel (Subclass i),8
and so on. It is slightly more problem-
atic to derive the free forms from the bound forms, mainly because the final
material of the free forms appears to be more idiosyncratic than the final mate-
rial of the bound forms, which often seems to be generated by copying the
preceding vowel. So, for example, in Subclasses iv–vii, listed in table 7.2, the
bound form always involves two copies of the penultimate vowel of the free
form, but the ultimate vowel of the free form can be either -a or -e, apparently
an idiosyncratic property of the stem.9
Similarly, in Class 1 (the Truncation
class) the bound forms lack material that is idiosyncratic to the free stem, not
independently predictable in any way, so, for instance, there are truncated stems
whose free form contains a final -a and the truncation consists in omitting that
-a (poona~pon- ‘play (instrument)’, bwiika~bwik- ‘sing’, miika~mik- ‘give’)
but other members of the class involve omitting a final -e (bwase~bwas- ‘cook’,
chupe~chup- ‘finish’, koche~kot- ‘sleep’) or -o (avaso~avas- ‘cottonwood’).
A few involve omission of a final CV syllable (hapte~hap- ‘stop’) or two final
vowels (yosia~yoh- ‘sleep’).
Given that the bound forms seem to be more regular and in some cases to
have lost information present in the free form, we will take the free form to
be basic and assume that the readjustment rules derive the bound form from
the free form. We will not attempt to formalize each of the rules here, but
merely insert descriptive names for them which summarize their general
effect.10
A few generalizations can be made; however, obviously much work
remains to be done to flesh out the analytic sketch presented here.
First, class membership cannot be fully predicted based on the phonological
properties of the free form. Near minimal pairs exist—for example nooka ‘talk,
speak to’ is a member of the truncating Class 1 (bound stem nok-), but yooka
‘paint’ is a member of the Echo Vowel Class 2 (bound stem yoka’a-). Similarly,
naate ‘begin, start’ is a member of the invariant Class 3, but waate ‘remember’
is a member of the e→i Subclass i.
Second, the bound form of a Truncation class word is always a heavy syl-
lable, usually C(C)VC (as in nok- ‘talk’). This leads to a conjecture regarding
the derivation of the forms of subclasses iv–vii in table 7.3. It could be that
two separate processes apply to generate this apparent pattern of vowel match-
ing: Truncation (as in Class 1) followed by Echo Vowel (as in Class 2), with
the latter possibly motivated by a preference for a bimoraic foot at the end of
a bound stem.11
This sequence would generate the bound form of, for example,
bwa’e as follows:
(7) bwa’e + Truncation → bwa → bwa + Echo Vowel → bwa’a-
128 Chapter 7
Such a derivation, if motivated, would provide additional support for the read-
justment rule approach, since an individual lexical item could be on the lists
for two (or more) of the readjustment rules (which would have to be ordered
with respect to each other).12
7.4.2 The Domain of Stem-Forming Readjustment Rules
How can we characterize the environment in which such Readjustment Rules
would apply? A key observation involves a close examination of the class of
suffixes which require bound stems to attach to, given in (2a) above. Consid-
ered in terms of the hierarchical functional projections, the bound-stem
requirement appears to end with affixes which occur in VoiceP. An overall
templatic sketch of the left-to-right organization of the Hiaki verb complex is
given below:
(8) Schema of Hiaki verb structure: Everything except the second instance
of V is optional
(dir/adv particle) (obj.clitic) = (incorp.N) - (RED) - (V) - V -
(bound-stem suffixes) - (PASS(+IRR)) - (free-stem suffixes)
Passive and future/irrealis markers are a rigid boundary between bound-
stem affixes and free-stem affixes—between derivation and inflection. They
themselves take bound stems. The irrealis suffix -ne, although not obviously
Voice-related, actually encodes both irrealis and active Voice. It is in comple-
mentary distribution with the realis passive -wa; one cannot add irrealis -ne to
a passive -wa (or vice versa) to mark a passive as irrealis. Irrealis passives
employ a special portmanteau suffix -na in this position, expressing both
properties at once. We speculate that Hiaki requires fusion of Voice and an
immediately c-commanding Mood head. The key thing is that each clause can
contain only one element that encodes Voice status, and that element must
occur at the boundary between bound-stem-selecting and free-stem-selecting
material.
This distribution is extremely suggestive from the perspective of modern
syntactic theory. Chomsky (1995, 2001) suggested that the derivation be
passed on to Spell-out in regular cycles, at specific boundary nodes, or phases.
The external-argument-introducing node, which he termed v*, but which could
equally be termed Voice, is one such phase. The fact that bound forms are
required inside the passive implies that the stem-forming Readjustment
rules apply phase-internally. Any element not left-adjacent to a phase edge is
subject to the stem-forming Readjustment Rules. See Harley and Tubino
Blanco 2012 for a more in-depth discussion of the syntactic character of this
domain.13
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 129
It is worth noting that this view of the conditioning context entails that there
are phase edges inside the nominal projection as well, which has become a
relatively common position since the first introduction of phases (see the dis-
cussion in, e.g., De Belder 2011; Kharytonava 2011). Nominal compounding
and derivation take place within that phase boundary and require bound
nominal stems to appear everywhere except in final position; affixes in the
higher inflectional projections of N (NumP, CaseP) are outside this phase
boundary and hence attach to free nominal stems.
7.4.3 Class Membership Is a Property of Vocabulary Items, not Roots
Embick and Halle (2005) assume that the List 1 Root formatives are specified
with phonetic feature information—that is, that Roots are not subject to
late insertion from the Vocabulary (List 2), unlike functional morphemes.
Their characterization of the content of Root elements is quoted here:
Roots: These make up the open-class vocabulary. They include items such as
√CAT, √OX, or √SIT, which are sequences of complexes of phonetic features,
along with abstract indices (to distinguish homophones) and other diacritics
(e.g. class features). (p. 38)
Harley (2011) argues that Root nodes cannot contain phonetic features, but
instead are subject to late insertion from List 2, the Vocabulary, just as abstract
f-morphemes are. The argument is based on the claim that Roots have supple-
tive realizations that can compete for exponence, a claim supported by evi-
dence from Hiaki and other Uto-Aztecan languages, as well as from other
languages around the world, which have small but robust groups of suppletive
forms that seem unlikely to be characterizable as light verbs. (This conclusion
is also supported by evidence from other languages described in Bonet and
Harbour 2012.) Harley concludes that List 1 Root elements are individuated
solely by their indices.
Setting aside that particular issue here, we will focus on whether class
features are diacritics on elements of List 1 or List 2. The interaction of supple-
tion and class features in Hiaki indicates that stem-class membership is a prop-
erty of List 2 elements, not a diacritic on List 1 elements, as proposed by Embick
and Halle. As we will see, this conclusion follows from the fact that suppletive
variants of a single List 1 element can belong to different stem classes.
Hiaki suppletive verbs are conditioned by subject number (if intransitive)
and object number (if transitive). The subjects of such verbs are argued by
Harley, Tubino Blanco, and Haugen (2009) to be internal arguments; if so,
conditioning of the relevant form is dependent on the number of the verb’s
internal argument. A representative sample is presented in (9):
130 Chapter 7
(9) Hiaki suppletive verbs
a. vuite run.sg tenne run.pl
b. siime go.sg saka go.pl
c. weama wander.sg rehte wander.pl
d. kivacha bring.sg.Obj kiima bring.pl.Obj
e. vo’ote lie.sg to’ote lie.pl
f. weye walk.sg kaate walk.pl
g. mea kill.sg.Obj sua kill.pl.Obj
The above represents a selection from a set of about fourteen or fifteen total
suppletive verbs in the language; the particular set varies somewhat between
speakers and across dialects, but the seven listed are among those that are
consistent. It should be clear that it is implausible to treat these alternations
in any other way than by listing. As in the case of the go/went alternation in
English, the two forms compete with each other for realization, the winner
determined by the number of the internal argument. A sample of such a rule
is illustrated in (10). On the left is the abstract node from List 1, identified by
its English translation;14
on the right are the two Vocabulary Items competing
to realize it.
(10) Vocabulary Insertion rule for a Hiaki suppletive verb
RUN → /vuite/ / [[DP+sg] ______√]15
→ /tenne/ elsewhere
If stem class were a property of the abstract node of List 1, then one would
expect that the stem forms of both suppletive variants should belong to the
same class and be subject to the same readjustment rules. Although this is the
case for some of these suppletive pairs, it is not the case for others. Consider
table 7.4.
From the data in table 7.4 it should be clear that suppletive variants of the
same verb can have different stem-class properties. Therefore, stem classes are
a property of the Vocabulary item, not of the abstract morpheme.
Note that the bound forms in table 7.4 support the point made earlier, that
the bound forms are always related phonologically to the free forms. The
bound form of a suppletive variant of a verb is never itself another suppletive
variant; rather, it is a form that relates to the free form according to some
reasonable phonological transformation.
The stem-form classes of Hiaki, then, are defined by the lists of roots that
the context-restricted phonological readjustment rules apply to. The lists them-
selves are references to the phonological content of a Vocabulary Item from
List 2, not to the abstract content of a List 1 item.16
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 131
7.5 Conclusions
The Hiaki stem-form classes, then, support three important conclusions about
the architecture of the mapping to phonological structure. First, readjustment
rules (or their equivalent) are a necessary feature of any morphological theory
that wishes to characterize the patterns of stem formation of Hiaki: they are
clearly phonological (even prosodic) in character, and yet are constrained to
apply only to idiosyncratically restricted lists of lexical items. Second, the
domain of application of these rules lines up quite well with the Minimalist
construct of phase, supporting the notion that the derivation proceeds cycli-
cally, phase by phase. Finally, syntactically inactive class memberships of the
kind observed in Hiaki stem forms are defined over Vocabulary Items, not over
abstract List 1 morphemes. Indeed, it seems reasonable to think that class
membership is not a diacritic on a Vocabulary Item, but instead is just a reflec-
tion of the presence of that Vocabulary Item on a particular readjustment rule’s
list of triggers. This opens the door to the possibility that certain apparently
irregular stem formations simply reflect the presence of a single root on the
lists of two or more readjustment rules. The application of both rules, rather
than one or the other, can produce relatively uncommon bound form~free form
relationships. One case discussed above that might admit of such an analysis
is bwa’e ‘eat’, whose bound form, bwa’a-, could result from the interaction
of Truncation and Echo Vowel. It remains to be seen, however, whether such
Table 7.4
Stem classes of Hiaki suppletive verb alternants
# Free form Bound form Stem class
RUN sg vuite vuiti- e→i
pl tenne tenni- e→i
GO (pres) sg siime sim- Truncate
pl saka saka’a Echo Vowel
WANDER sg weama wee- Truncate/EV
pl rehte rehti- e→i
BRING sg kivacha kivacha- Invariant
pl kiima kima’a- Echo Vowel
LIE sg vo’ote vo’ote- Invariant
pl to’ote to’ote- Invariant
WALK sg weye wee- Truncate/EV
pl kaate kat- Truncate
KILL sg mea me’e- Truncate/EV
pl sua sua- Invariant
132 Chapter 7
an analysis is viable for most or all of the irregular bound-stem types. We leave
such investigation for future work.
Notes
1. It is also worth noting that derivational suffixes can iterate, and that many of them
have bound-stem forms as well (analogous to what Bermúdez-Ortero 2013 calls “suffix
stumps” in Spanish). For example, the suffix taite ‘start’ has a bound-stem form -taiti-,
which occurs when another suffix from the list in (2a) follows it.
2. Siddiqi (2009) proposes an approach that brings a stem-listing analysis of English
irregularity into a Distributed Morphology model; the remarks of Embick and Halle
(2005), and the arguments advanced here, also pose a challenge to such versions of
DM.
3. However, see Bermúdez-Ortero 2013 for a thorough discussion and defense of stem-
listing approaches to class properties in the grammar of Spanish; lexical redundancy
correspondences over stored forms are argued to account for the systematicity of class-
based effects in such a model.
4. Note that mamam ‘hand’ is mandatorily plural when free in the language; it is a
member of a substantial class of such pluralia tantum nouns in Hiaki, analogous to
scissors or pants in English. It is nonetheless clear that the free-stem form is mama-,
not mam-; when the plural suffix -m is added to a consonant-final stem, the epenthetic
vowel that repairs the coda cluster violation is -i-, not -a- (consider tekil ‘job’, tekilim
‘jobs’).
5. Recall that vowel shortening, as in the first syllable of chiiva~chiva’a- here, is a
regular phonological process in the language that occurs regardless of whether the
affixation that triggers it is inflectional or derivational. Hence we do not include “vowel
shortening” in our description of the process that forms the bound stem here, since we
cannot distinguish the regular vowel-shortening process triggered by affixation from
vowel shortening for stem formation.
6. The question of conditioning across intervening morphology is of course highly
pertinent in other frameworks as well; see, for example, Carstairs 1987 and subsequent
work. Since in simple nouns and verbs the intervening morphology at issue here is null,
however, the locality of the context under discussion is an issue mostly for theories
that make robust use of zero morphs, such as Distributed Morphology. See Embick
2010 for an in-depth discussion of these issues.
7. However, see Bobaljik and Wurmbrand (chapter 11, this volume) for a possible
mechanism for suppressing the implementation of cyclic spell-out that relates cyclic
behavior to the selectional relationship between the cyclic head and its immediately
c-commanding head. It remains to be seen whether such a mechanism could be relevant
to the derivation of the Hiaki forms under discussion here.
8. Ora Matushansky (personal communication) asks whether Subclass iii, involving
free forms ending in -u and bound forms ending in -oe, might be derived by a readjust-
ment rule involving raising of the final -e to -i, followed by assimilation of -o to the
height of -i (producing -u) and subsequent deletion of -i in the free form. Such an
Cycles, Vocabulary Items, and Stem Forms in Hiaki 133
approach to this subclass may be motivated by the fact that final V-deletion seems to
be in evidence in other corners of the grammar, such as in alternate lexicalizations of
adverbials like ket~kechia ‘still’. Nonetheless, final -ui VV sequences seem to be well
formed in the language, in words like kumui ‘ego’s mother’s older brother’, so such
deletion is not a general phonological process.
9. A large number of verbs in Hiaki have transitive forms that end in -a (and whose
bound forms are Class 3, invariant) and intransitive ones that end in -e (and whose
bound forms are Subclass i, e→i). The verbs in table 7.2, however, are not among these
transitive/intransitive alternating pairs, and contain transitives whose free forms end in
-e (e.g., bwa’e ‘eat.tr’) as well as intransitives whose free forms end in -a (e.g., hovoa
‘get full’).
10. Indeed, we remain agnostic concerning the character of the phonological compo-
nent that interprets the output of the morphological component. It might well be, as
proposed in Haugen 2008, an optimality-theoretic constraint system. In that case,
readjustment rules could be analyzed as subphonologies or cophonologies constrained
to apply to small subsets of the lexicon. We leave this possibility for future research.
11. A bimoraic requirement on the foot on the right edge of a bound stem would
provide a prosodic characterization of the motivation for Truncation, as well, since the
result of Truncation seems always to be a heavy syllable.
12. As noted by Matushansky (personal communication), the possibility that certain
forms may be the product of the application of two independently active readjustment
rules is in itself an argument for the existence of readjustment rules and a strike against
the listedness hypothesis, in which such interactions could not be captured. Alterna-
tively, one might consider the notion that readjustment rules should be treated as
cophonologies involving a few reranked constraints, restricted to a small list of indi-
vidual lexical items, within an interpretive OT approach to the output of the DM
morphological component. In that case, the apparent “dual” application of readjustment
rules in the case of forms like bwa’e~bwa’a would involve the optimal satisfaction of
two lexically restricted cophonologies (see note 10 above). We leave the investigation
of such a possibility for future work.
13. Note that a suppletion analysis of stem-form alternations could equally appeal to
this context—that is, a rule stating that a bound-stem form is inserted whenever a root
node is not left-adjacent to a phase edge, or, conversely, that a free form is inserted
whenever a root node is left-adjacent to a phase edge, assuming that both syntactic
structure and linear order are accessible to the Vocabulary Insertion operation (rather
than assuming, for instance, that linear order is determined by the outcome of Vocabu-
lary Insertion, as assumed in, e.g., Harley 2010). This weakens, somewhat, the locality-
based objection to the ‘listed’ approach to stem-form alternations, but does not affect
the other arguments presented above. Thanks to a reviewer for this observation.
14. Although the representation here suggests that these nodes are disambiguated by
their meaning, in fact we assume they are individuated only by a contentless index,
following Harley 2011. The index is interpreted by the equivalent of Vocabulary Inser-
tion at LF—a kind of meaning-lookup procedure.
15. Note that the singular form is the marked variant in Hiaki; in impersonal construc-
tions, where number is unspecified, the plural form surfaces. Also note that the
134 Chapter 7
conditioning environment in (10) represents a syntactic structure, not a purely linear
structure; it conveys the notion that the singular form of a root is inserted when that
root is sister to a singular DP—that is, when that root takes a singular internal argu-
ment. As noted above, Harley, Tubino Blanco, and Haugen (2009) argue that all
intransitive suppletive verbs in Hiaki are unaccusative. Other material may come to
linearly intervene between the root and its base-generated sister DP, for example by
virtue of DP movement to subject position, or the prefixation of an adverbial particle
to the verbal complex, but since this Vocabulary Insertion rule is sensitive to syntactic
context, not (necessarily) morphological adjacency, and since the rule presumably
applies on the first spell-out cycle, prior to (e.g.) DP movement, such intervening mate-
rial will not block insertion of the conditioned verb form.
16. A reviewer notes that one might consider whether the singular and plural forms of
these suppletive verbs should not simply be considered independent verbs (i.e., inde-
pendent List 1 elements), as proposed in Mithun 1988. In such an approach, each
“suppletive” pair is made up of two independent verbs that have effectively the same
Encyclopedic content but one of which subcategorizes for singular arguments, the other
for plural ones. If that were the case, the class features could be attached to the abstract
verb rather than to the phonological exponent. The Hiaki cases, all of which involve
verbs that subcategorize for an internal argument, do not provide the basis for a decisive
argument against this position, but such an analysis would face the (in our opinion)
significant drawback of failing to capture grammatically the intuition of Hiaki speakers
that the singular and plural forms of these elements are the same verb—that is, that
they form part of a paradigm. See Bonet and Harbour 2012 for a more decisive reply
to Mithun’s proposal based on the behavior of suppletive nominal roots, lacking a
selected complement.
8
Halle (1957) gives arguments for adopting binary features in phonetics and phonology,
but this is unusual; the internal structure of features tends to be assumed rather than
argued for.
—Corbett (2010, 18)
8.1 Introduction
When he was young, Morris Halle taught himself to write backwards (as did
I). His method involved decomposing letters into their constituent ascenders,
descenders, loops, and humps, and mastering reversal just of this smaller set
of primitives. In consequence, an examination of features, the primitives of
linguistic representations, is a fitting tribute both to Morris’s long and ongoing
contributions to linguistics and to the personality evident in his earliest intel-
lectual excursions.
Fundamental to features is the often-neglected issue of valence (cf, Halle
1957 on phonology). Can features be explicitly denied and asserted, or is only
assertion explicit, with negation implied by absence? In other words, bivalence
or privativity: +F versus −F, or plain F versus nothing?
This chapter aims to review the accumulating case for bivalence of person,
number, and gender features, from semantics, morphology, and syntax. The
evidence strongly suggests, I believe, that explicit reference to negation is
necessary and that negation and absence are distinct.
Since privativity is more restrictive, the initial burden of proof lies on advo-
cates of bivalence. Yet, as Noyer’s landmark (1992) study of person and
number features assumed bivalence, it compels advocates of privativity to
produce equal empirical coverage. This has been attempted to good measure
(Harley 1994; Harley and Ritter 2002), with Harley 1994 even addressing one
case, Mam, where Noyer explicitly argued for bivalent person features.
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There”: Bivalence in Person,
Number, and Gender
Daniel Harbour
136 Chapter 8
However, Noyer’s case for the bivalence of number, from Kiowa-Tanoan, has
not been reanalyzed in privative terms and Harbour 2011d argues that it cannot
be. Moreover, arguments against the privativity of (some) person features
occur in Nevins 2007 (on the typology of person-case constraints), Trommer
2008 (on Dumi and Menominee), and Watanabe 2012 (on affix order in Fula).
Because my view of person (2012) differs substantially from Trommer’s,
Nevins’s, and Watanabe’s, I do not review their arguments here (though I agree
with much of them). Instead, I present evidence from four sources, some of
which have received little theoretical attention. Section 8.2 examines the
semantic composition of trial, unit augmented, and greater paucal in terms of
opposing specifications, (+F(−F(. . .))), of a single feature. Section 8.3 treats
the morphological composition of persons and numbers that show complemen-
tary patterns of inclusion (for instance, inclusive, which sometimes includes
exclusive, but is sometimes included by it). Section 8.4, the most traditional,
presents “alpha exponents,” which track covariant values of multiple features.
And section 8.5 highlights the role that bivalence plays in one theory of the
strong person-case constraint (Adger and Harbour 2007) and shows that this
permits the account to extend to previously unnoted phenomena in differential
marking of (in)animate objects in Tewa.1
8.2 Semantic Compositionality: Function Application of +F to −F
A common aim in morphosemantics is to derive maximal coverage from
minimal posits. A major result along these lines is the discovery that the (two)
features that distinguish singular from minimal pronouns suffice to derive the
six number values, comprising three distinct number systems (singular–plural,
minimal–augmented, singular–dual–plural), with the appropriate differences
in lower bounds of the two plurals (two in dualless languages, three otherwise)
(Noyer 1992; see Harbour 2011a for further exposition). In this light, a seman-
tic argument for bivalence comes from the feature composition of trial, unit
augmented, and greater paucal, numbers unanalyzed on most accounts. Trial
and unit augmented require no features beyond those just alluded to, ±atomic
and ±minimal.2
And greater paucal needs no feature beyond ±bounded, which
characterizes the basic paucal itself. Rather, these previously recalcitrant
numbers arise from function application of +F to −F. Thus, a putative feature
±trial is as redundant as ±dual, provided our basic features are bivalent,
because only bivalent features afford the −F for +F to apply to.
Consider how, featurally, one would add trial to the system singular–dual–
plural. For any person or noun n, (−at(n)) picks out the nonatoms of n. The most
minimal nonatoms are dyads; hence (+min(−at(n))) is the dual. The nonminimal
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 137
remainder, (−min(−at(n))), is the plural. Many languages end their number
systems there. However, it is possible, once again, to pick out the most minimal
elements of the plural, (+min(−min(−at(n)))), which yields the trial.
Crucially, this result depends on distinguishing +min and −min both from
absence and from each other. If minus were absence, then dual [+min −at] and
trial [+min −min −at] collapse to just [+min]. If plus were absence, trial would
collapse to plural [−min −at].
Minimal, unit augmented, and augmented (e.g., Bininj-Gunwok, Evans
2003) correspond to dual, trial, and greater for first-person inclusive, but to
singular, dual, and greater for all other persons and nouns. The system arises
from ±min alone. The smallest inclusive, (+min(1in)), is the speaker-hearer
dyad. So, (−min(1in)) is the speaker, hearer, and one or more others. The
smallest of these, (+min(−min(lin))), is the speaker, hearer, and just one
other—that is, the unit augmented. For first-person exclusive (other persons
and nouns are analogous), (+min(1ex)) is the speaker alone; (−min(1ex)) is
the speaker and one or more others; and (+min(−min(1ex))) is the smallest
of these, the speaker and just one other, the unit augmented.
One can define the paucal in terms of +bounded owing to the observation
that a plurality plus a plurality is always a plurality, but a paucity plus a paucity
is not always a paucity. That is, plurals are unbounded under addition, but
paucals are bounded. So, in, say, Yimas (singular–dual–paucal–plural), paucal
is (+bdd(−min(−at(n)))) and plural, (−bdd(−min(−at(n)))). A further option
that a language may exploit is to carve out, from the latter unbounded region,
a second bounded subregion, (+bdd(−bdd(−min(−at(n))))). This picks out
elements larger than paucal, but still of limited size. The Sursurunga system
(singular–dual–paucal–greater paucal–plural) results.
It is a considerable economy to reduce recalcitrant numbers to features that
are independently required. Yet, the observation made for the trial applies also
to the unit augmented and greater paucal: the necessary distinctions are only
possible where +F and −F are both represented and both distinct from zero.
This provides a semantic argument for bivalence.
Two consequences of this approach are worth nothing, in distinction to
Harley and Ritter 2002. The latter assumes that trial and paucal are different
interpretations of the same feature structure. Yet, if paucals permit “exact”
interpretations, then the exact counterpart of the greater paucal should be the
quadral. Typological surveys suggest no quadrals exist (Corbett 2000; Lynch,
Ross, and Crowley 2002). The current approach excludes the quadral, on the
assumption that features come in sets. Tetrads are the minimal (+min) ele-
ments, once dyads (−min1) and triads (−min2) have been excluded from the
nonatoms, (+min(−min2(−min1(−at(n))))).Yet, as a set, [+min −min −min −at]
138 Chapter 8
is indistinguishable from [+min −min −at] (by the axiom of extension, {a, a}
= {a}). Thus, axioms of set theory prevent one from building the set that would
denote the quadral: if one adds an extra −min to the trial, the axiom of exten-
sion “gobbles” it up.
Moreover, if, as per Harley and Ritter 2002, trial and paucal are different
interpretations of the same structure, then they are predicted not to co-occur.
The current approach makes the opposite prediction: trial and paucal are fea-
turally distinct and so may co-occur, just as dual and paucal do in Yimas and
like systems. The latter is the correct position, because trial and paucal co-
occur in Lihir, Marshallese, and Mussau (Corbett 2000; Ross 2002; Brownie
and Brownie 2007).
Thus, distinguishing +F and −F from each other and from their absence
permits one to characterize trial, unit augmented, and greater paucal in a
uniform and semantically orthodox fashion (by function application), while
deriving significant facts about nonexistent and co-occurrent numbers.3
8.3 Morphological Compositionality: Reciprocal Inclusion
By “morphological compositionality,” I intend phenomena like the famous
Hopi dual (Hale 1997), which shares one exponent (a suppletive verb) with
singular and another (a pronoun) with plural. This has been taken to argue for
analyses in which dual shares features with both singular and plural. The Hopi
facts are shown in table 8.1, with privative (Harley and Ritter 2002) and biva-
lent analyses; underlining shows shared exponents and the features they
realize. Analogous phenomena arise for person, in Tok Pisin pronouns (Foley
1986; ignoring number, inclusive yumi is second yu plus first mi), and in Kiowa
(Harbour 2007; table 8.2; in/ex share a pronoun, in/2, agreement).4
Table 8.1
Hopi: A composed dual
‘I/we’ ‘ran’ Privative Bivalent
sg nu wari min +min(+at)
dl ’itam wari min grp +min(−at)
pl ’itam yu’tu grp −min(−at)
Table 8.2
Kiowa: A composed inclusive
prn agr-be Privative Bivalent
1ex náw e-dáw spkr +spkr(−hear)
1in náw ba-dáw spkr hear +spkr(+hear)
2 ám ba-dáw hear −spkr(+hear)
Although privative and bivalent analyses are equally matched for Hopi
and Kiowa, they come apart when relationships of compositionality are
reversed. In their respective pronouns, the Damana dual is a component of
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 139
the plural (Amaya 1999; table 8.4 shows second person) and the Limbu inclu-
sive is a component of the exclusive (Van Driem 1987; table 8.4 shows the
dual).
Table 8.3
Damana: A composed plural
psn-nmb-nmb Privative Bivalent
sg ma min +min(+at)
dl ma-bi min grp +min(−at)
pl ma-bi-nyina grp −min(−at)
Table 8.4
Limbu: A composed exclusive
psn-dl-psn Privative Bivalent
1ex ang-chi-ge spkr +spkr(−hear)
1in ang-chi spkr hear +spkr(+hear)
2 khen-chi hear −spkr(+hear)
A bivalent analysis is trivial in both cases, given the availability of negative fea-
tures: Damana nyina is −min, Limbu ge is −hearer. In the privative systems of
tables 8.3 and 8.4, however, these morphemes emerge like phantoms from the
void: there is no privative feature corresponding to Damana nyina or Limbu ge.
These problems are not restricted to second person in Damana (first- and third-
person plural also “add” nyina to dual psn-bi), nor to duals in Limbu (where verb
paradigms also show “addition” of ge to form exclusives from inclusives).
Nor are these phenomena isolated to the languages just mentioned. Com-
parable to Damana are, for instance, Mokilese (Hutchisson 1986; e.g., 2dl
kamwa is a component of 2pl kamwa-i and 2gr.pl kamwa-i
= kimwi) and
Walapai (Redden 1966; e.g., 2pc máč is a component of 2pl máč-uv). And
comparable to Limbu is Nyawaygi (Dixon 1983; e.g., 1in.dl ngali is a com-
ponent of 1ex.dl ngali-lingu). However, so far as I know, advocates of priva-
tive features have yet to address systems such as these, and my attempts to
sketch out a phantom-free analysis with privative features suggest deficiencies
within privativity itself.
Consider Limbu. One could posit a new feature [exclusive], with exponent
ge.5
But, as [exclusive] means ‘excludes speaker’, this simply shows, contra
privativity, that one does need to refer to what negative values refer to. Nor
are matters helped by, say, taking ge to be an exponent of number. One still
needs a means of saying that ge occurs in the absence of [hearer]. Again, the
need to “refer” to negative values remains.
Alternatively, if one adds a feature, [person], to all persons, then the analysis
in table 8.5 is made available (cf, Harley and Ritter’s [participant]). The table
reads left to right as a derivation; column headings are exponents that apply
successively. The table delivers the desired result, but it is somewhat ad hoc:
without contextualization (/spkr), ang would occur in second person 2; without
140 Chapter 8
the zero exponent, khen and ge would occur in 1in; and stipulation of order
is crucial (Ø before ang would block ang from 1in).6
To claim that systems
like Limbu arise only owing to ad hoc vocabulary specifications is to afford
them a very different status from Hopi number, which has been central to
morphosemantic thought.
Privative features can easily deal with morphological compositionality
where “more features” corresponds to “more exponents.” The reverse situation
is problematic, but is attested in a range of person and number systems. These
show that, where two bivalent features suffice, two privative features do not.
Given that negation or other forms of complementation must be available to the
semantics (not and the rest, after all, have interpretations), it is a minimal
increase in complexity to represent affirmation/negation as part of the features.
If better privative analyses of such systems are forthcoming, this will hardly
detract from the naturalness with which bivalent features can capture their
properties.
8.4 Covariant Values (Alpha Exponents)
The preceding argument used different exponents to show that both plus and
minus are represented and realized. Sometimes, a single exponent suffices to
show this, if it realizes both [+F +G] and [−F −G], or both [+F −G] and [−F
+G]. I term these “alpha exponents,” because they have the form [αF αG] or
[αF −αG], where, as in Chomsky and Halle 1968, α is a variable over + and −.
A well-known proposal of an alpha exponent arises in Noyer’s (1992) treat-
ment of Mam. In possessives and ergatives, enclitic a occurs for the seemingly
unnatural class of 1ex and 2 (England 1983). Noyer observes that this cor-
responds to αspeaker −αhearer.
Alpha exponents make an excellent case for bivalence. Yet Mam a concerns
a single morpheme in a single language and has been subject to privative
reanalysis.7
However, there are at least three domains where alpha exponents
Table 8.5
Limbu: A privative treatment, phantom-free
Input pers/spkr
⇔ ang
spkr hear
⇔ Ø
hear ⇔
khen
spkr ⇔
ge
Output
1ex pers spkr ang spkr ang spkr ang spkr ang ge ang . . . ge
1in pers spkr
hear
ang spkr
hear
ang Ø ang Ø ang Ø ang
2 pers hear pers hear pers hear pers khen khen khen
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 141
are more widespread, both intra- and interlinguistically: epistemic alignment,
number-dependent gender, and inverse number systems (see also Béjar and
Hall 1999; Baerman 2007; Albright and Fuß 2012; Wunderlich 2012).
Like Mam a, epistemic alignment involves alpha exponence for person.
The core characteristic of the phenomenon is that one and the same set of
suffixes marks first person in assertions and second person in questions,
whereas a different set marks first person in questions and second person in
assertions (as well as third person in both). In Awa Pit (Curnow 2002), for
instance:
(1) na-na pala ku-mtu-s min-ta-ma ashap-tu-y?
1sg-top plantain eat-impf-align who-acc-q annoy-impf-nonalign
‘I am eating plantains.’ ‘Whom am I annoying?’
(2) nu-na pala ku-mtu-y shi-ma ki-mtu-s?
2sg-top plantain eat-impf-nonalign what-q do-impf-align
‘You are eating plantains.’ ‘What are you doing?’
(3) us-na atal ayna-mtu-y mintas a-mtu-y?
3sg-top chicken cook-impf-nonalign where from come-impf-nonalign
‘He/she is cooking chicken.’ ‘Where is he coming from?’
Different languages vary as to specific details (such as the treatment of
nonagent first persons and of third-person logophors in subordinate clauses;
see Curnow 2000 for comparison of Kathmandu Newari and Lhasa Tibetan
(Tibeto-Burman), and Tsafiki and Awa Pit (Barbacoan)). But confining atten-
tion to the core sensitivity illustrated above, we have use of one exponent, s,
for (non–third person) αauthor −αq, and use of another, y, otherwise.
In a different vein, some languages make gender dependent on number via
alpha exponence (or, perhaps, via alpha rules that swap plus and minus prior
to exponence). In Hebrew, for instance, “The cardinal numbers from 3 to 10
[have] this peculiarity, that numerals connected with a masculine substantive
take the feminine form, and those with a feminine substantive take the
masculine form” (Kautzsch 1910, §97a; the same holds true for Modern
Hebrew). For instance, šaxor and šxor-a are ‘black’, masculine and feminine,
but šaloš and šloš-a are ‘three’, feminine and masculine. That is, these numer-
als have gender −αfeminine when modifying nouns of gender αfeminine.8
Somewhat similar are nouns like ‘egg’ and ‘arm’ in Italian (and ‘sense’ in
Romanian), which are masculine in the singular but feminine in the plural. For
example, il bianco, ‘the white one’, could refer to an egg or a man but not to
142 Chapter 8
a woman, but le bianche, ‘the white ones’, to eggs or women, but not to men
(see Acquaviva 2008). Nouns of this class have gender −αfeminine for number
αatomic.
But doubtless the most striking case of alpha exponence arises in the
“inverse” number systems of the Kiowa-Tanoan languages. As originally
argued in Noyer 1992, these languages define noun classes via number fea-
tures. That is, where Hebrew and Italian nouns are inherently ±feminine,
Kiowa-Tanoan has nouns that are inherently ±atomic and/or ±minimal.9
Table
8.6 illustrates part of the Kiowa system. There are no singular or plural markers
per se. Rather, the “inverse” (dau for the nouns chosen here) marks singular
for ‘stick’, plural for ‘bug’, singular and plural for ‘tomato’, and is absent from
‘rock’. Assuming the noun-class features shown beside each noun in the table,
we can characterize the distribution of dau by claiming that it realizes [αF
−αF], where F is either number feature. The conflicting features are shown in
square brackets after each noun, with the feature contributed by noun class on
top, that contributed by number below. For example, pl(‘bug’) contains [+min
−min] and so is inverse-marked pól-dau, because ‘bug’ is +min but plural is
−min. Similarly, sg(‘stick’) is inverse-marked because it contains [+at −at],
−at from ‘stick’, +at from singular. Both these conditions apply to ‘tomato’,
but ‘rock’, which has no class features, does not ever clash with number and
so is never inverse-marked. See Noyer 1992 and Harbour 2007, 2011d, for
further discussion and application to other members of the family.
Whether privativity can handle epistemic alignment and number-dependent
gender remains to be seen (Béjar and Hall 1999 use markedness metrics).
However, as mentioned in the introduction, Harbour 2011d argues that priva-
tive features cannot insightfully characterize the inverse systems of Kiowa and
Jemez (the obvious, but far from only, problem being that the notion of value
conflict, which is the essence of the inverse, cannot readily be expressed in a
system where features are valueless). By contrast, bivalent features readily
accommodate alpha exponence. So, on balance, the phenomenon supports
bivalence of person, number, and gender features.
Table 8.6
Kiowa inverse marking
‘bug’ (+min) ‘stick’ (−at) ‘tomato’ (+min −at) ‘rock’ (Ø)
sg (+min +at) pól áa-dau [−
+at
at
] k’âun-dau [−
+at
at
] ts’ów
dl (+min −at) pól áa k’âun ts’ów
pl (−min −at) pól-dau [+
− m
mi
in
n
] áa k’âun-dau [+
− m
mi
in
n
] ts’ów
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 143
8.5 Person Sensitivities
The final set of arguments I will put forward are morphosyntactic, building on
the account, in Adger and Harbour 2007, of the strong person-case con-
straint—the requirement, in some languages, that, when agreement or clitics
represent both indirect and direct object, the direct object must be third person.
Section 8.5.1 reviews the account, emphasizing the role that bivalence of
±participant plays, and section 8.5.2 extends it to novel data from Tewa indirect
and animate direct objects. For reasons of space, I do not attempt a privative
recasting of the account. However, the challenge to privative views of person
features will be clear: a three-way contrast between plus, minus, and absence
is crucial, and only bivalent features afford this.
8.5.1 Person and Case: Constraint and Syncretism
The central motivating observation of Adger and Harbour 2007 is that, in many
languages with the strong person-case constraint, first- and second-person agree-
ment or clitics display a syncretic behavior from which third person is exempt:
only for third persons are indirect-object (dative) and direct-object (accusative)
forms distinct. In French, for instance, 1sg me, 2sg te, 1pl nous, and 2pl vous are
the clitics for both indirect and direct object; for third person, 3m.sg le, 3f.sg la,
and 3pl les are used for direct objects, but 3sg lui and 3pl leur, for indirect objects.
A similar pattern holds across Romance and Kiowa-Tanoan, as well as in Chinook,
Georgian, and Yimas. In other words, the persons prohibited from object position
in PCC configurations are those that (generally) display this syncretism.
Adger and Harbour 2007 accounted for this correlation by attributing two
roles to ±participant. First, it is an indispensable part of the semantics of first
and second person. Whereas third person can be specified solely for number
(and gender), other persons must also be specified for ±participant (inter alia).
Second, ±participant encodes the well-known animacy constraint on many appli-
catives (e.g., Perlmutter 1971). We claim that syntax does not have a feature
±animate per se and must represent animacy with the next best thing; ±partici-
pant is a good fit because it is an essential ingredient of the indisputably animate
first and second persons. So,Appl, the head that selects the applicative argument,
does so by agreeing with it for ±participant.
The syncretism arises for first and second person because the selectional
requirement on applicatives makes no difference to their feature content. They
are specified for ±participant whether selected by Appl or not. This is not so
for third persons: selection by Appl entails a −participant specification that
they would otherwise lack, and this is something to which exponence can
be sensitive. For the French clitics above, for instance, le and la are plain
144 Chapter 8
[±feminine +atomic], but lui is [−participant ±feminine +atomic]; and les is
plain [±feminine −atomic], but leur is [−participant ±feminine −atomic]. The
difference between dative and accusative for third person, then, is the contrast
between minus and absence of ±participant.10
The strong person-case constraint arises because Appl case licenses the lower
argument before it licenses its specifier. Both case licensing and selection involve
agreement in phi-features, and the uninterpretable ±participant feature of Appl
can agree (be valued) only once. If the lower argument is specified for ±partici-
pant, then Appl has no resource left by which to license its specifier. Conse-
quently, an applicative argument can occur only if the lower argument has not
“used up” Appl’s ±participant feature. That is, the direct object must lack a
±participant specification, and so must be third person.
This account of the person-case constraint and its concomitant syncretisms
makes full use of the resources of bivalence. It distinguishes between +partici-
pant and −participant in the characterization of agreement and clitics for first-
and second-person versus third-person indirect objects. And it distinguishes
between minus and absence in the characterization of agreement and clitics
for third-person indirect versus direct object. Insofar as one accepts the
account—and new evidence from Tewa suggests one should—one has evi-
dence for bivalence of ±participant.
8.5.2 Animate Direct Objects in Tewa
Tewa, a Tanoan language related to Kiowa, provides strong, and previously
unnoted, evidence for the necessity of distinguishing between third persons speci-
fied as −participant and those unspecified for ±participant. Where Kiowa (like the
other languages examined in Adger and Harbour 2007) uses −participant only for
third-person applicatives, Tewa uses it for some direct objects too.As with applica-
tives, this induces an animacy effect. So, in Tewa, animate direct objects may be
differentiated from inanimate direct objects by being specified as −participant. The
extension of dativelike properties to animate direct objects paints Tewa as leísta
Kiowa (Ormazabal and Romero 2007), a parallel that some readers may find
helpful. This ramifies in four quite diverse ways throughout Tewa grammar.11
8.5.2.1 Agentive Marking
Agents in Tewa are (optionally) marked with -d
¯
i:
(4) I pu’ay-d
¯
i páad
¯
é-bo óe-mû’ i P’osewhâa Sedó
the rabbit.dim-agt first-prt 3:3sg.an-see.pf the coyote old man
‘The little rabbit saw Old Man Coyote first.’
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 145
(5) I pu’ay óe-yóe’an i P’osewhâa Sedó-d
¯
i
the rabbit.dim 3:3sg.an-leave.pf the coyote old man-agt
‘Old Man Coyote left the little rabbit.’
(6) Naa-d
¯
i wí píví wîn-hóewayní
I-agt some meat 1:2sg:3-go get.fut
‘I’ll go get you some meat.’
(7) Hed
¯
i i k’úwá’ay-d
¯
i in p’ônbay ôn-’íh-kê’
and the lamb-agt the.inv head 3:3sg:3-back-take.pf
‘So the lamb hoisted the skull onto his back [for the kitten].’
However, this is only possible for agents that act on animate direct objects
(4)–(5) and/or on indirect objects (6)–(7). In no example in the Téwa Pehtsiye
corpus is an agent marked with -d
¯
i when its only clausemate argument is
inanimate. The following are typical of such scenarios:
(8) Hed
¯
i-ho i-kê’ i tu
˛u
˛yó in yán t’ún
and-prt 3sg:3-get.pf the chief the.inv willow basket
‘The chief took the willow basket.’
(9) Wí Kwä́˛k’u kwiyó i-kaysu-kunmáa
one Spanish old woman 3sg:3inan-cheese-sell.impf
‘An old Spanish woman was selling cheese.’
This can be explained simply. Indirect objects and animate direct objects
form a natural class that excludes inanimate direct objects, by virtue of speci-
fication for ±participant. And the dual role of v, in case licensing the next
argument down and in selecting the agent, makes sense of how the agent comes
to “register” the feature content of a lower argument. We can regard -d
¯
i as an
exponent of v on the agent, when v has agreed with a lower ±participant as a
part of case licensing.
8.5.2.2 Incorporation
Inanimate direct objects in Tewa may incorporate, as in (9)–(11).
(10) Naa-d
¯
i wây-píví-má’í
I-agt 1:2pl:3-meat-bring.fut
‘I’ll bring you the meat.’
(11) Thamuwaagá . . . i-’a˛gä˛h-khá˛a˛-k’o’
every day.foc 3sg:3-atole-scum-eat-impf
‘Every day he ate the scum from the atole.’
146 Chapter 8
The animate direct objects and indirect objects in our corpus never incorporate,
by contrast. For indirect objects, this restriction may be structural (e.g., Baker
1988). For direct objects, however, an additional factor must be at play. Given
that first- and second-person pronouns also fail to incorporate—(12) and (13)
are typical of their distribution—it is plausible that ±participant, or the struc-
ture that hosts it, prevents incorporation: objects specified for the feature (first
and second person, and third-person animates) cannot incorporate, others
(inanimates) can.12
(12) To’dan naa dí-k’owa?
who I 3:1-cut hair.pf
‘Who cut my hair?’
(13) Naa dí-k’oe-d
¯
a . . .
I 2:1-eat-rel.foc
‘If you eat me . . .’
8.5.2.3 Syncretism
The extended use of −participant induces new systematic syncretisms, between
indirect and animate direct third person objects. This arises because, for any
given number, the two are featurally identical. So, whether v agrees with (case
licenses) 3sg, say, as the indirect object of a ditransitive or as the animate
direct object of a monotransitive, it will be valued in the same way, [−partici-
pant +minimal +atomic], yielding identical agreement morphology. Table 8.7
shows this in full, using the sentence frames ‘x verb it to y’ for ditransitives
and ‘x verb y’ for transitives.
The table shows that animate direct objects pattern with indirect objects in
two ways. First, these prefixes are invariant for the number of the agent.13
For
example, óe encodes any third person acting on third-singular animate—that
is, action on 3sg.an by a 3sg, 3dl, or 3pl agent. Similarly, ôn encodes giving
Table 8.7
Tewa agreement prefixes for third-person argument combinations
x verb it to y x verb y.an x verb y.inan
x 3sg 3dl 3pl 3sg 3dl 3pl 3sg 3dl 3pl
3sg ôn- óe-
y 3dl ovä̂n- ovä̂n- i- dä̂n- dây-
3pl ovây- ovây-
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 147
to 3sg by a 3sg, 3dl, or 3pl agent. The sensitivities are reversed for inanimate
objects, however: only agent, not object, number is relevant. For instance, i
encodes third singular acting on any third person—that is, 3sg acting on a 3sg,
3dl, or 3pl inanimate.
Furthermore, the prefixes for indirect objects and animate direct objects are
made up of the same exponents. Indeed, for 3dl and 3pl, the prefixes are
identical. Ovây, for instance, is used for any third person either giving some-
thing to 3pl, or acting transitively on an animate 3pl. Identity all but obtains
for 3sg too, where the animate transitive prefix is óe /ó:/ and the ditransitive
is ôn. Other prefixes show the same alternation, witness dí and dîn (as in ‘you
verb me’ and ‘you verb it to me’), wí and wîn (‘I verb you’ and ‘I verb it
to you’), and wóe /wó:/ and wôn (‘he verbs you’ and ‘he verbs it to you’).
Thus, -ˆn expresses inanimate-object agreement in ditransitives. Subtracting
this leaves identical óe for both −participant 3sg forms.14
These systematic correlations thus strongly support an account that regards
third-person indirect and animate direct objects as featurally identical.
8.5.2.4 Animacy Restrictions
I also predict that animate direct objects cannot bear −participant in a ditransi-
tive. If Appl case-licensed such an object, its participant feature would be
valued and it could no longer select a specifier. This is the configuration of
the person-case constraint. To avoid it, animate objects must be featurally
represented as inanimates, when there is an applicative.
Verifying this prediction requires attending to the composition of the agree-
ment prefixes themselves (an area of notorious complexity across the family;
see, e.g., Watkins 1984 or Harbour 2007 on Kiowa). A comparatively straight-
forward illustration is provided by the following triplet:
(14) Nwe dovä̂n-’a˛h-khe
˛h-hon
here 1:3dl.an-foot-chase-bring.pf
‘This is where I’ve tracked them to.’
(15) Dîn-pee-yôn
2:1:3-exit-command.imp
‘Tell them [dl] to come out [for me].’
(16) Dîn-ts’úd
¯
e-í in to khän p’ônbay
2:1:3-bring in-fut the.inv anaph lion head
‘Bring me the skull of the lion.’
‘Them’ in (14) and (15) refers to the same pair, the protagonist kitten
and lamb. (14) illustrates that they are treated as animates. Its prefix, dovä̂n,
148 Chapter 8
decomposes into two readily recognizable parts. There is the first-person
subject/object exponent d-, present in the dîn of (15)–(16) and the dí of
(17)–(18):
(17) To’dan naa dí-k’owa?
who I 3:1-cut hair.pf
‘Who cut my hair?’
(18) Naa dí-k’oe-d
¯
a . . .
I 2:1-eat-rel.foc
‘If you eat me . . .’
Subtracting d- from dovä̂n leaves -ovä̂n. This is recognizable from table 8.7
as the prefix used when acting on a 3dl animate direct object (assuming the
third-person agent makes no morphological contribution, as was already
shown for agent number). It follows that dovä̂n in (14), like ovä̂n in table 8.7,
registers the animacy of its direct object.
If the 3dl direct object triggered animate agreement in (15), we would expect
the prefix to consist of some combination of dí for 2:1 (18) and ovä̂n for animate
3dl (presumably, díovä̂n, dóvä̂n, dívä̂n, or similar). Instead, the direct object
contributes just -ˆn, like the inanimate in (16). So, object animacy is indeed
suppressed exactly where it would violate the person-case constraint.
8.5.3 Summary
The syncretisms and restrictions on animate agreement, agent marking, and
incorporation above follow naturally if −participant distinguishes animate from
inanimate direct objects, within the framework ofAdger and Harbour 2007. Like
that treatment of the person-case constraint and its syncretisms, this crucially
distinguishes −participant from its absence, and so requires bivalence.
8.6 Outlook
Given its empirical breadth and theoretical variety, the case for bivalence is
compelling. There is, it seems, a considerable burden of proof to be shouldered
by advocates of privativity for person, number, and gender features.
Equally, though, advocates of bivalence must pick up the privative gauntlet
of Béjar 2003, 2008, Béjar and Rezac 2003 (works that address agreement
displacement and related phenomena; on systemic typology and markedness,
such as Harley and Ritter 2002, Cowper 2005, see, e.g., Harbour 2011a, 2011c,
Nevins 2011). I regret that space limitations preclude discussion of these
results here. Morris would console me with Ethics of the Fathers 2:21. I thank
him with Proverbs 18:4, and therefore 23:12.
“Not Plus” Isn’t “Not There” 149
Notes
My thanks to David Adger and an anonymous reviewer for helpful comments, and to
two research assistants, Itamar Kastner (section 8.3) and Kyle Helke (section 8.5). This
work, and Kastner’s contribution, were funded by the Arts and Humanities Research
Council of the United Kingdom, grant AH/G019274/1: Project ‫א‬ (Atomic Linguistic
Elements of Phi), Subproject ‫ב‬ (Nothingness Underrepresents Negation).
1. Several arguments below turn on the three-way distinction between +F, −F, and
absence of ±F. I do not regard absence as a value (the zero value, ØF; cf. Halle
and Marantz 1993). Absence of ±F has no semantics, nor, do I believe, can it have
exponents. Nonetheless, bivalent features create three-way distinctions when absence
is taken into account, just as monovalent (privative) features create two-way
distinctions.
2. These are Noyer’s ±singular and ±augmented respectively. I rename them for ease
of exposition. When there are no enclosing brackets, reference is made to the feature
itself: semantic expressions are enclosed in parentheses; syntactic feature bundles, in
square brackets.
3. For further formal detail and exploration—including morphological compositional-
ity of the numbers discussed, the treatment of “greater” and “even greater” plurals, the
unavailability of “even greater paucal,” Greenberg-style implications between numbers,
and the basis and acquisition of numeral systems—see Harbour 2011b, 2011c.
4. For simplicity, I use Noyer’s features. Harbour (2012) offers a more parsimonious
alternative.
5. For clarity, privative features occur between square brackets in the main text.
6. Three other sets of exponents achieve the same result. None is less arbitrary than
that in table 8.5, as the reader can easily verify.
7. Harley (1994) analyzes Mam with privative features subject to co-occurrence restrictions
(a “geometry”). However, the explanatoriness of geometries has been called into question,
both in phonology (Halle 1995) and in morphology (Harbour and Elsholtz 2011).
8. Classical Hebrew presents an even more surprising case. Following “consecutive
and” (which has a particular narrative, i.e., locutionary, force; Kautzsch 1910, §§111–
112), perfectivity is expressed by imperfective exponents, and conversely. For instance
(ignoring stress shift), tā aś-tā is perfective (seize.pf-2m.sg.pf, ‘you seized’), but w-
tā ś-tā, imperfective (and.impf-seize.“pf”-2m.sg.“pf”, ‘you will seize’); and ti-tpoś is
imperfective (2m.sg.impf-seize.impf, ‘you will seize’), but wat-ti-tpoś, perfective (and.
pf-2m.sg.“impf”-seize.“impf”, ‘you seized’). This ‘and’ itself expresses aspect (imper-
fective w, perfective waC). So, exponents of (or conditioned by) αperfective are used
for −αperfective in the context of −αperfective ‘and’. Given the featural connection
between aspect and number explored in Harbour 2011c (following a substantial tradi-
tion that includes Link 1983 and Krifka 1992), this case too might count as evidence
for bivalence of number features.
9. I leave aside ±group, which distinguishes (non)collective pluralities. See Harbour
2007, 2011d, for details.
150 Chapter 8
10. This accounts for tendencies, not categorical effects. Syncretism could arise in
third persons, if exponence ignores −participant. Nonsyncretism could arise in first or
second, if exponence is sensitive to the surrounding context, such as the presence of
Appl itself (see Adger and Harbour 2007 on Greek singular clitics, for instance). The
proposal thus delineates what the dominant pattern of (non)syncretism should be, but
allows the smudginess typical of exponence.
11. Example sentences are from Téwa Pehtsiye: Tewa Tales, San Juan Dialect (1982),
a native-speaker-produced collection in linguistically accurate orthography, with idi-
omatic English translations. The glossing is my own and owes much to Kyle Helke,
who, for a research practicum, retyped and partly glossed the texts (using Martinez
1983 and my hunches) and checked several generalizations discussed below (Helke
2011). I further verified these against materials in Santa Clara and Arizona Tewa
(Harrington 1946; Kroskrity and Healing 1978; Kroskrity 1985, 2010).
12. An obvious alternative is that definiteness blocks incorporation, as nearly all our
animate objects, as well as first- and second-person pronouns, appear to be definite.
However, if we take the native speakers’ translations at face value, then (10) and (11)
speak against this. Moreover, in another Tanoan language, Southern Tiwa, definiteness
clearly does not impede incorporation, since incorporates may be modified by demon-
stratives external to the verb, as in ‘I saw those men’ (yedi bi-seuan-mũban, that.inv
1s:3inv-man-see.pf; Allen, Gardiner, and Frantz 1984).
13. In fact, as we will see in the next section, there is evidence that the third-person
agents make no morphological contribution to the prefix at all. For example, ‘I verb
them it’ is dovây, the addition of first-person d- to ovây ‘(he/they) verb them it’; and
‘they verb you it’ is wovây, the addition of second-person w- to ovây.
14. Tewa, like Kiowa, lacks superheavy codas, so emergence of (w)ôn from (w)ô:n is
just low-level phonology. For unknown reasons, -ˆn occurs only in some (generally
monosyllabic) agreement prefixes: it occurs, for instance, in bîn ‘you verb it to them’,
but not in table 8.7’s ovây ‘they verb it to them’ (which is not ovây + ˆn = ovên). The
patterns of distribution are complex and may represent an arbitrary morphological fact
about the language. This potential arbitrariness is orthogonal to the parallels highlighted
in the main text.
9
9.1 Introduction
Some questions in linguistics have persisted through hosts of theoretical changes.
The conflict between affixless and morpheme-based theories raises questions of
this type. In its contemporary incarnation, at least two significant objections
raised against affixless theories are that they (i) render the interface between
syntax and morphology opaque, and (ii) have serious difficulties with the analy-
sis of blocking (e.g., Halle 1990; Noyer 1992; Marantz 1992; Halle and Marantz
1993; Embick 2000; Embick and Halle 2005; Embick and Marantz 2008). Nev-
ertheless, the tension between morpheme-based and affixless theories is as rel-
evant as ever (see section 9.3). My objective here is to develop a further line of
argument in favor of morphemes and against affixless theories, one that also
opens up new questions in the study of morphophonology.
Nonaffixal morphological alternations—that is, phonological alternations
that are morphologically triggered or targeted—are often taken to provide
evidence for affixless theories. In this chapter I develop an argument for the
opposite conclusion. The argument is based on the observation that morpho-
phonological changes behave as if they have a morphological locus—that is,
they operate in a way that is expected if they are linked directly to a morpheme
that has a position (hierarchically and linearly) within a complex word, and
act in a way that is (phonologically or morphologically) local to that mor-
pheme. This aspect of nonaffixal morphology is a component of a broader
theory of morphophonological locality, one based on morphemes and the
principles governing their composition into complex objects (see Embick
2010, 2012). Crucially, to the extent that the correct theory of morphophono-
logical loci follows from a morpheme-based theory of morphology, significant
generalizations about morphophonology are missed in affixless frameworks.
Ideas along these lines have been advanced in different forms in the litera-
ture. In my view, however, these points have neither been fully appreciated,
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci
David Embick
152 Chapter 9
nor developed in sufficient detail. I first outline a generalized theory of mor-
phophonological loci in section 9.2, and then illustrate difficulties for affixless
theories in section 9.3; section 9.4 concludes.
9.2 A Morpheme-Based Theory of Loci
The empirical focus of this chapter is on different types of evidently nonaffixal
alternations, of the types illustrated in (1)–(3).1
German umlaut is vowel front-
ing triggered by several morphemes that have nothing in common, as far as
the synchronic grammar is concerned (see, e.g., Lieber 1980, 1987; Kiparsky
1996; Wiese 1996a, 1996b; Embick and Halle 2005):
(1) Basic Umlauted Gloss Morphosyntactic feature
lauf-en läuf-t ‘run’ 3sg present verb
Huhn Hühn-er ‘hen’ plural
Vater Väter-chen ‘father’ diminutive
Europa europä-isch ‘Europe’ adjective formation
hoch höch-st ‘high’ superlative
In the Arawakan language Terena, first person singular is realized by pro-
gressive nasalization (from left to right), with (simplifying somewhat) the
spread stopped by obstruents, which become prenasalized (see Akinlabi 2011
and references cited there):
(2) 3sg 1sg Gloss
arıne ãr̃ı̃nẽ ‘sickness’
emoʔu ẽmõʔũ ‘boss’
owoku õw̃õn
gu ‘house’
ıwuʔı∫o ı̃w̃ũʔn
ʒo ‘to ride’
takı n
daki ‘arm’
paho n
baho ‘mouth’
In the Ethiopian Semitic language Chaha, verbs suffixed with the third
singular masculine object marker (3sg.masc.obj) show labialization of the
rightmost labializable consonant (Banksira 2000; Rose 2007). The -n mor-
pheme is analyzed as a “case” affix that precedes 3sg.masc.obj, so that the
middle column is derived from -“CASE”-3sg.masc.obj (3sg.masc.obj
position is marked with △):
(3) Without obj 3sg. masc. obj Gloss
kәtәfә kәtәfw
ә-n-△ ‘chop’
nәkәsә nәkw
әsә-n-△ ‘bite’
k’әsәrә k’w
әsәrә-n-△ ‘erect’
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 153
My primary claim is that essential generalizations about the locality of
alternations like those seen in (1)–(3) follow directly in a morpheme-based
theory, but not in an affixless theory. An initial statement of the observation
to be explained in this way is given in (4):
(4) Morphophonological Locus (ML)
A morphophonological rule triggered by morpheme X behaves as if the
effects of the rule are local to the position of X.
The wording in (4) assumes that there are morphologically conditioned pho-
nological rules—that is, that the identity of morphemes is available in the
phonology, such that phonological processes may be triggered by certain
morphemes, or apply to some morphemes and not to others. See section 9.3
for some further discussion of this point.
The importance of Morphophonological Locus has surfaced in the literature
in some different forms. For example, Lieber (1987), who develops a theory
in which the exponent of a morpheme may be (or include) an autosegment,
emphasizes that the locality of mutation processes (among which she includes
German umlaut) follows from the position of a morpheme in a complex word.
Other observations along these lines can be found as well.2
However, these
observations have not, to my knowledge, been organized into a general theory
that emphasizes the centrality of the morpheme for nonaffixal morphology.
9.2.1 Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci
Morphemes play a defining role in explaining Morphophonological Locus. A
starting point in the theory of this effect is the idea that in a morpheme-based
theory, “words’’ are realizations of morphemes combined into syntactic struc-
tures; I will assume that these are complex heads of the type schematized in (5):
(5) [[[ W] X] Y]
Morphemes arranged in a structure like (5) are linearly ordered in the PF
component of the grammar; this gives them a linear position with respect to
each other. With this in mind, my claim is that the generalizations stated as
Morphological Locus (4) are accounted for by the Morphological Locus
Theorem (6):
(6) Morphological Locus Theorem
A morphophonological change triggered by morpheme X is
phonologically or morphologically local to X.
The rest of this section shows how (6) follows as a theorem in a theory with
(i) morphemes, along with (ii) morphological and phonological locality condi-
tions on operations.
154 Chapter 9
With respect to (ii), some care must be taken to explain why (6) makes
reference to both phonological and morphological locality; this is a key
theme throughout this section. For the moment, it can be seen how (6)
accounts for the basics of (1)–(3). In the case of German umlaut, the
affixes triggering the fronting process are suffixes. Thus the fact that the
process applies to the final vowel of Europa to derive the adjective europä-
isch—that is, that umlaut applies locally from right to left—follows directly.3
With Terena 1sg, the change is triggered by (or is the exponent of) a prefixal
agreement (AGR) morpheme: [AGR [Noun/Verb. . .]] (see, e.g., Akinlabi
1996, 2011; Wolf 2006); this explains why nasalization has the locus that it
does. Although there is no “overt’’ prefixal material before the verb with 1sg,
there is an overt 1pl AGR prefix with vowel-initial words, and 2sg AGR is
marked morphophonologically from left to right as well (Ekdahl and Grimes
1964); there is thus clear motivation for prefixal AGR. Finally, the Chaha 3sg.
masc.obj morpheme originates in a suffixal position, where other object mor-
phemes occur; the fact that it labializes locally from right to left is therefore
expected.
The MLT (6) is at the core of a morpheme-based theory’s morphophonologi-
cal predictions, and, as simple as it is, it cannot be formulated straightfor-
wardly in an affixless approach (section 9.3). Of course, some different
auxiliary theories must be combined with the MLT to account for certain
phenomena noted in the literature. For example, the infixation of a morpheme
will result in that morpheme not being in its locus as defined by the MLT.
However, as noted by Halle (1990), infixes are prefixes or suffixes that are
subsequently moved, in my view either morphologically (see Embick and
Noyer 2001, Embick 2007b) or phonologically (see, e.g., Halle 2001 and the
overview inYu 2004). The position of infixed morphemes is therefore expected
to be local to their original position, as defined by the MLT. Effects that are
perhaps similar because of their relation to phonologically defined objects are
found with reduplication and other prosodic phenomena.4
Although I cannot
examine these phenomena here, they highlight the importance of taking the
MLT as part of a theory that incorporates both morphological and phonological
representations and locality conditions.5
9.2.2 Locality
The MLT specifies that morphophonological changes have a locus. Beyond
this, there must be an additional theory of the precise locality conditions
under which such alternations occur. Building on earlier work (see below),
I hypothesize that there are two kinds of “morphophonological’’ alternation
in the broad sense. One is subject to morphological locality, which I take to
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 155
be the concatenation (= immediate linear adjacency) of morphemes; the
other type obeys phonological locality (e.g., adjacency in autosegmental
representations).
As a first step, some terminology is in order. Morphophonological alterna-
tions have triggers (the cause of the alternation) and targets (the object that
undergoes the phonological change). Moreover, both targets and triggers can
be either morphologically (M-) or phonologically (P-) defined. M-triggers are
seen in (1)–(3), where specific morphemes induce the change; M-targets are
found when a particular set of Roots or morphemes undergo a change (while
others do not) and the set cannot be defined phonologically. For example,
German umlaut applies to e.g. laufen ‘to run’ in the 3sg present tense to
produce läuf-t; but e.g. kaufen ‘to buy’ does not undergo umlaut (3sg present
kauf-t). Or, for instance, Spanish diphthongization occurs under stress, yield-
ing alternations like pensár ‘to think’, piénso ‘think-1sg’; but it only applies
to certain targets like and not others (compare tensar ‘tauten’, with 1sg
tenso).6
P-targets and triggers are defined in purely phonological terms—that
is, without reference to the specific morphemes involved.
In these terms, Embick (2012) hypothesizes that there are two distinct types
of morphophonological alternations:
(7) a. Morpheme/Morpheme (M/M) Rules): Rules that have an M-Target
and an M-Trigger
⇒Operate in terms of morphological locality/Cannot skip
morphemes.
b. Morphophonological Rules (M/P) Rules): Rules that have either an
M-Target or an M-Trigger, with the other component being
phonological
⇒Operate in terms of phonological locality/Can skip morphemes.
Starting with M/M-Rules, Embick (2010) builds on earlier work in propos-
ing that contextual allomorphy—crucially, the suppletive type effected by the
Vocabulary Insertion operation—requires the concatenation of morphemes.
More precisely, a morpheme X can have its allomorphy determined by Y only
when it is immediately adjacent to Y—that is, when YȾX or XȾY. Building on
this proposal, Embick (2012) observes that the M/M-Rules (7a) require infor-
mation about two morphemes in exactly the same way. For example, in the
English pasttense, the Root appears as sang when it is local to the
past-tense morpheme T[+past]. For this to happen, both and T[+past]
have to be visible as morphemes—that is, as the specific Root and morpheme
that they are—in order for the change to apply.7
In a way that covers both
M/M-Rules and contextual allomorphy, the Morpheme Interaction Conjecture
156 Chapter 9
hypothesizes that all processes referring to two morphemes as morphemes are
subject to the same linear locality condition:
(8) Morpheme Interaction Conjecture (MIC)
PF Interactions in which two morphemes are referred to as morphemes
occur only under linear adjacency (concatenation).
Calabrese (2012) provides a compelling analysis of a collection of effects
in the Italian past tense called the passato remoto that illustrates the effects of
concatenation in M/M-Rules. This tense shows a number of irregular verbs
with stem allomorphy restricted to the 1sg, 3sg, and 3pl forms; (9) illustrates
with a small sample of such verbs:
(9) inf 1sg 2sg 3sg 1pl 2pl 3pl
a. ‘come’ venire vέnni venísti vέnne venímmo veníste vέnnero
b. ‘move’ mwovere m‫́ٯ‬ssi mwovésti m‫́ٯ‬sse mwovémmo mwovéste m‫́ٯ‬ssero
c. ‘put’ mettere mísi mettésti míse mettémmo metttéste mísero
d. ‘see’ vedere vídi vedésti víde vedémmo vedéste vídero
The 1sg, 3sg, and 3pl forms of these verbs show changes to the verb stem,
whereas the rest of the person/number combinations show the stem form found
in other tenses (cf. the infinitives venire, etc.). The relevant changes are trig-
gered by the past-tense morpheme T[+past], and apply only to certain verbs,
making them M/M-Rules in the classification above. Calabrese shows that
traditional explanations, which rely on (essentially suppletive) allomorphy
driven by stress, fall short in explaining the distribution of regular and irregular
stem alternants. His argument is that the irregular stem alternants are found
only in the 1sg, 3sg, and 3pl because it is precisely these forms that have no
theme vowel. According to this analysis, then, there are two morphological
representations underlying the two type of Passato Remoto, athematic (10a)
and thematic (10b):
(10) a. Athematic -T[+past]-AGR: 1sg mwov-s-i → m‫́ٯ‬ssi
b. Thematic -THEME-T[+past]-AGR: 2sg mwov-e-Ø-sti →
mwovésti
The representations in (10) abstract away from certain details that play an
important role in Calabrese’s treatment (e.g., Tense and AGR fuse in thematic
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 157
forms). The key point for present purposes is that the rules that derive irregular
stem allomorphy are constrained to apply only when the Root and T[+past]
are adjacent. As Calabrese demonstrates, this locality-based view accounts for
stem allomorphy and a number of other morphophonological effects seen in
the Passato Remoto forms in a direct and constrained way—a significant
advance over alternatives in which stem choice is determined by paradigmatic
structure or global phonological properties.
Moving past M/M-Rules and the MIC, for the M/P-Rules (7b) what is at
issue is the idea that locality defined in terms of phonological representations
may be morphologically “nonlocal” (i.e., may skip morphemes).8
Thus, even
though such rules are triggered by specific morphemes, or target specific
morphemes, they obey the locality conditions that apply to phonological rules.
This is an important observation, because it highlights the fact that such rules
are “part of the phonology,” despite their morphological conditioning.
A first illustration of the “morpheme-skipping’’ effect can be drawn from
Banksira 2000, using the process of labialization in Chaha (recall (3) above).
This process labializes the first potential target to the left of the 3sg.masc.obj
morpheme, whose position is symbolized with -ә△ below.9
In the following
examples, labialization affects the malefactive morpheme -β in (11a), skips
benefactive -r to labialize 1sg subject -xi in (11b), and skips benefactive -r
and 3sg.masc.subj -Ø in (11c) to labialize the medial consonant of the root.
Note that all of these examples include a final tense morpheme -m that, even
though it is phonologically a possible target of labialization, is to the right of
the 3sg.masc.obj morpheme, and therefore never targeted; this is a good
example of Morphophonological Locus, since right-to-left labialization starts
from the object morpheme, and not, for instance, from the right edge of the
word (labialized elements are boldfaced):
(11) From Banksira 2000, 284, 296–297
a. kәfәt -xi
‐- -β -ә△ -m → kәfәt-xi
‐-w-ә-m
open -1sg.sub -mal -3sg.masc.obj -tns
‘I have opened (something) to his detriment.’
b. kәfәt -xi
‐ -r -ә△ -m → kәfәt- xw
-r-ә-m
open -1sg.subj -ben -3.sg.masc.obj -tns
‘I have opened for him.’
c. kәfәt -Ø -r -ә△ -m → kәfw
әtә-Ø-r-ә-m
open -3sg.masc.subj -ben -3sg.masc.obj -tns
‘He has opened (something) for him.’
A second example of skipping morphemes can be seen in some dialects of
Italian, which show a process called metaphony: the raising of a stressed vowel
158 Chapter 9
when the following syllable contains a high vowel. For an overview see
Maiden 1991 and, for the phonological change(s) effected, Calabrese 1999,
2009. In certain dialects of Italian, only schwa appears posttonically. In some
of these dialects, the second-person singular agreement (2sg AGR) affix—
which historically was (metaphony-triggering) -i, as in Standard Italian—con-
tinues to trigger metaphony. This is shown in (12) for the dialect of Ischia (the
left columns show Standard Italian for comparison):
(12) Metaphony triggered by AGR (Maiden 1991, 159); cant/kand ‘sing’
St. Italian Ischia, Campania
pr. ind. impf. ind. pr. ind. impf. ind.
1sg canto cantavo kandә kandavә
2sg canti cantavi k ndә kand vә
3sg canta cantava kandә kandavә
Two observations can be made here. The first is that the raising is a morpho-
phonological change triggered by the 2sg AGR morpheme. The second is that
the target of the change need not be morphologically adjacent. The imperfect
indicative form kandεvә consists of four morphemes: a Root, a theme vowel
(underlyingly /a/), a past-tense morpheme -v, and the 2sg AGR morpheme -ә:
[[[ a] v] ә]. The change that is effected by metaphony triggered by
2sg AGR, then, is not restricted to adjacent morphemes. Rather, it skips the
past-tense morpheme -v—that is, it obeys phonological locality and affects the
autosegmentally adjacent theme vowel.
In both the Chaha and the Ischia examples, the morphophonological change
may be realized on a morpheme that is not morphologically concatenated with
the trigger of the change. Rather, it is realized on an element that is phonologi-
cally local to the trigger.
9.2.3 Synopsis
The theory outlined in this section hypothesizes that morphophonological
changes in the broad sense might be the result of rules that have distinct local-
ity conditions: M/M-Rules, which apply to concatenated morphemes, and
M/P-Rules, which operate in terms of phonological locality.10
The full range of predictions of this approach remain to be investigated.
Moreover, there is more work to be done on the precise nature of integrated
morphological and phonological representations, in which specific morphemes
and their linear relations play a role (along the lines investigated in, e.g.,
McCarthy 1981 and subsequent work). It should be stressed, however, that
while many alternative formulations of morphophonological locality may be
considered, the core fact to be accounted for is that there are some locality
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 159
conditions that regulate the application of morphophonological alternations.
That is, Morphophonological Locus must be accounted for, and theories are
deficient to the extent that they allow stem-changing and other morphophono-
logical alternations to be triggered in an unrestricted way. This is the essential
theme of the next section, where comparisons with nonaffixal theories are
undertaken.
9.3 Some Pertinent Comparisons
At the outset I noted that nonaffixal changes are often taken to be problematic
for morpheme-based theories, and as evidence for affixless theories. The
reasons for this are supposed to be clear—for example, whereas -ed in the past
tense played of play looks like a morpheme, the change seen in sang from
sing does not; not in any obvious sense, anyway. By this last comment I mean
that it is probably true that if we look only at the form sang (or at the forms
sing and sang together), it might not be obvious why sang should be analyzed
as containing (at least) the two morphemes and T[+past]. On the other
hand, if we consider the syntacticosemantic fact that sang (like e.g. play-ed)
is used for “past tense of ” only in a subset of past-tense clauses in
English—that is, if we consider its relation to clausal syntax and interactions
with T-to-C movement, negation, do-support, and so on—the need to treat sang
as consisting of and T[+past] at some level of analysis is much clearer.
On this point, see Chomsky 1957, 58, which is framed with reference to
Hockett’s (1954) discussion of how morpheme-based theories might handle
nonaffixal alternations.
In any case, although the idea that morpheme-based theories have difficul-
ties with nonaffixal alternations is familiar, explicit arguments that elaborate
and develop this point are not always easy to find. Anderson 1992 provides a
useful point of reference, because it is a sustained attempt to motivate and
develop a theory that dispenses with morphemes (for inflectional morphology,
anyway). As a justification for this move, Anderson argues that “the class of
contributors to the form of complex words looks more like the set of changes
made by phonological rules than it does like a lexicon of listed word-like
elements’’ (p. 72). Generalizing, the conclusion is that “since a process-
based approach naturally accommodates affixation, but not vice versa, the
alternative we should prefer is to explore a theory of morphological processes’’
(p. 68).
It is important to note that this argument concentrates on the question of
whether nonaffixal alternations can be reduced in toto to affixation. This is, in
my view, somewhat misleading. What is at issue is this. In a theory with mor-
phemes, an apparently nonaffixal alternation like German umlaut could, in
160 Chapter 9
principle, be treated in one of two ways: either (i) (morpho)phonologically, with
a list of morphemes that trigger a fronting rule; or, (ii) via insertion of autoseg-
ments, so that, for instance, umlaut-triggering morphemes are those whose
exponents begin with the feature [−back] (see, e.g., Lieber 1987). In the latter
case, the need for “morphologically triggered phonological rules” is avoided;
instead, morphemes plus “normal phonology’’ produce what look like nonaffixal
changes. For convenience, the generalized version of the type (ii) approach—one
that replaces morphologically conditioned phonological rules with insertion—
will be referred to as a Vocabulary Insertion Only (VIO) theory. In these terms,
Anderson (1992, 68) criticizes Lieber (1987) (and others) on the grounds that
while certain nonaffixal alternations might lend themselves to a VIO analysis,
others (subtractions, exchange rules, chain shifts) cannot be treated in affixal
terms. For this reason, Anderson concludes, an affixless theory is required.
It is important to note that the correctness of the VIO approach is irrelevant as
far as the main argument of this chapter is concerned. The reason for this is that
the argument centered on Morphophonological Locus can be framed either in
terms of a theory with morphologically triggered phonological rules (as in section
9.2), or in terms of a theory with VIO (since the inserted autosegments, etc., will
have their locus in a morpheme that has a position). For the rest of this section,
then, the question to be addressed is not Can all “morphological changes’’in the
broad sense be treated affixally? Instead, it is Do morpheme-based or affixless
theories provide the basis for the correct theory of morphological and morpho-
phonological locality? The status of VIO will be left for another occasion.11
I will speak generically of affixless theories in addressing the locality ques-
tion, so that the argument is intended to apply to a wide range of approaches.12
Schematically, affixless approaches derive the forms of words by operations
that apply to representations consisting of Roots and matrices of features like
(14). Compare the structured complex of morphemes in (13):
(13) [[[ ±W] ±X] ±Y]
(14)
In the affixless representation in (14), all of the features are equally “close”
to each other and to the Root. This is a defining property of such a theory.
With this in mind, the claim I will now develop is stated in (15):
(15) Affixless theories make no predictions about the locality of
morphophonological interactions, because the MLT (or something
similar) cannot be formulated in such theories.
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 161
Comparison with the theory of section 9.2 is important for understanding
(15). Take, for concreteness, an instantiation of (13)/(14) in which W is Aspect,
X is Tense, and Y is Agreement; this is the typical structure of a verb in many
languages. Assume further that these are suffixes: -ASP-TNS-AGR.
The theory of section 9.2 says that in complex tenses, in which there are overt
realizations Aspect and Tense, a morphophonological rule triggered for
example by 1pl AGR might not be able to affect the Root. If it is an M/M-
Rule, then it is predicted that no change to the Root will be possible, period,
because such rules require the concatenation of morphemes. If the change is
effected by an M/P rule, then it could only affect the Root if the exponents of
Aspect and Tense are not themselves phonological targets (or phonological
blockers) of the change.13
The point of (15) is that these types of predictions cannot be made in a
theory that eliminates morphemes. There are at least two ways of making this
position precise, corresponding to two different ways of analyzing nonaffixal
changes in affixless theories.
A first type of analysis employs stem insertion. Anderson’s (1992) treatment
of irregular inflection and stem allomorphy holds that, for instance, sang is a
(suppletive) allomorph (“stored stem”) of ; the [+past]-specified stem
sang beats the default stem sing when is bundled with T[+past].14
Stem
insertion has serious problems with blocking, as discussed by Halle and
Marantz (1993). The further point raised by (15) is that it makes it impossible
to formulate a local theory of Morphophonological Loci: since all of the fea-
tures are equally local in representations like (14), any feature (or any subset
of features in a representation like (14)) could potentially trigger stem allo-
morphy of a “nonaffixal” morphological type. The idea that certain changes
cannot occur because of the distance between the trigger and target cannot be
formulated. Thus, in this approach, there are not expected to be any effects of
morphophonological locality in language.15
A second way of reasoning through (15) is as follows. Theories like Ander-
son’s (e.g., Stump 2001, although it differs in other ways) use blocks of rules
to spell out feature bundles like the one in (14). In Anderson’s formalization,
these word formation rules (WFRs) are phonological rewrite rules. So, for
example, the plural of an English noun like dog is formed by taking the rep-
resentation dog[+pl] and rewriting it with the rule /X/+pl →/Xz/ that adds /z/.
Suppose now that rather than treating nonaffixal changes with stem insertion,
as discussed above, such changes were treated with rewriting rules. Again, the
question is as follows: if all features are equally close to the Root and to each
other in representations like (14), then why should morphophonological
changes ever show any sort of locus? The representation in (14) makes any
162 Chapter 9
potential interaction among features possible, thus allowing every conceivable
trigger/target interaction. So, “local changes” could be analyzed by manipulat-
ing how the rule blocks are ordered. Letting BW, BX, and BY be rule blocks
realizing W, X, and Y, it would be possible to say that the feature Y triggers a
change that acts upon the output of BW and BX applying to the Root by stipu-
lating the block order (i) BW, (ii) BX, and (iii) BY. But this order in no way
follows from (14), where, as stressed above, all features are equally close
to each other. Thus, it would also be possible to order a block By′ sensitive
to Y first (since Y and the Root are visible to each other in (14)), such that
changes triggered by the Y feature would apply to the Root even when there
are overt reflexes of W, X, and Y in that order. More generally, the morpho-
syntactic representation (14) does not place any constraints on the order of
morphophonological rule blocks, making any set of interactions possible. In
short, affixless theories may manipulate rule blocks to account for local alter-
nations, but only because they allow for completely nonlocal alternations
as well.
Another way of making this point is as follows. In an affixless approach
that employs rewrite rules, such rules are not expected to have the locality
properties of phonological rules, because they are morphological—that is,
triggered by features in representations like (14). But since there are no mor-
phemes, they do not have morphological locality properties either. Anderson
(1992, 45–46) seems to be aware of this issue, but does not, in my view, suf-
ficiently acknowledge its implications, namely, the predicted absence of any
locality effects in morphophonology.
In summary, to the extent that extremely nonlocal effects of the type outlined
above are not found, nonaffixal changes are problematic for affixless theories.
Given the observations about Morphophonological Locus outlined above, the
burden of proof must be on advocates of the affixless theories to show either
that (i) there are in fact radically nonlocal morphophonological changes in the
world’s languages, or that (ii) there is a straightforward way of accounting for
morphophonological locality in an affixless theory.
9.4 Conclusions and Further Directions
The basic claims of this chapter are that (apparently) nonaffixal morphological
changes (i) have a Morphophonological Locus in a word that determines where
they apply, and that (ii) the correct theory of such Morphophonological Loci
follows from a morpheme-based theory, but cannot be derived in an affixless
view. Within the general framework of assumptions that I have adopted here,
different approaches can be taken toward the locality of morphophonological
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 163
operations. At a minimum (and putting aside the question of reducing every-
thing to Vocabulary Insertion), there are M/P-Rules that show the locality
conditions characteristic of phonological operations. Such rules connect with
important developments in generative phonology, in which morphologically
conditioned phonological rules are treated with other “normal” phonological
rules (Halle 1959 and related work). For reasons that connect with the type
of information found in (suppletive) contextual allomorphy, I hypothesized
further in section 9.2 that there might be another type of rule, the M/M-Rules,
which, because they make reference to the identity of two morphemes as
morphemes, require morphological concatenation.
There are many additional topics to be addressed in a more comprehensive
theory of morphophonology. Fundamental representational questions about
how morphological and phonological information is accessed in the PF com-
ponent connect with other substantive questions about the division of labor
between Vocabulary Insertion and the phonology (leading, for example, to the
question of how much “nonaffixal” morphology can be reduced to the former).
Whatever specific directions these latter lines of investigation take, the general
point that defines the present work is that the morpheme is indispensible for
understanding how syntax, sound, and meaning are connected in language. In
this I echo Halle 1990, a paper that has launched so much productive work
because of its insistence that the morpheme in all of its dimensions must be
at the heart of morphological theory.
Notes
Some of this material was discussed in my spring 2012 seminar at Penn, and I thank the
participants for a number of important comments, suggestions, and corrections. Thanks
also to two reviewers for a number of detailed and helpful comments that have greatly
improved the chapter; I regret not having the space to address their points in full. The
author’s research is supported by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child
Health & Human Development of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number
R01HD073258.
1. I say “evidently” here because if autosegments can be the exponents of Vocabulary
items, then at least some of these alternations could be treated with “normal” Vocabu-
lary Insertion (see section 9.3).
2. For example, Salanova’s (2004) study of truncation points to the role of morphemes
in constraining morphophonological changes. Elsewhere in the literature, the idea that
various morphophonological changes are effected by autosegments etc. that must be
either prefixal or suffixal can be found in Akinlabi 1996 (Akinlabi (2011) calls this
property “directionality”). Along the lines pursued by Lieber, Wolf (2006) employs
constraints that force mutations to have a locus and argues against affixless versions
of OT morphophonology on this basis.
164 Chapter 9
3. See also Lieber 1987 and Wiese 1996a for this point. For some discussion of the
phonological locality of this process in forms like Väter-chen see, for example,
Kiparsky 1996.
4. With reduplication, this is sometimes analyzed with the idea that “heads” are tar-
geted, as in Aronoff 1988. Other phenomena worth examining in this connection
involve “augmentation” of the types seen in Classical and Modern Greek; it is also
possible that ge- prefixation in German participles could be analyzed in these terms.
5. In fact, morphological and phonological locality are only part of the picture. For
reasons discussed in Embick 2010 with reference to allomorphy, syntactic locality (the
theory of phases, Chomsky 2000, 2001; see Marantz 2000, 2007, and chapter 6, this
volume, as well as Embick and Marantz 2008) also plays a role in certain morphopho-
nological interactions. However, integrating such considerations into morphophono-
logical theory presents numerous complications, as stressed by Lowenstamm (2010)
with reference to the Level 1/Level 2 distinction in English affixes. See as well Marvin
2002 and chapter 5, this volume.
6. The relationship between affixation, stress, and diphthongization in Spanish is quite
complicated. For example, there are well-known cases in which certain affixes that
affect stress do not affect diphthongization; see Bermúdez-Otero 2006 and references
cited there, as well as Embick 2012 for some comments from the perspective of the
framework discussed here.
7. Note in addition that for this to occur, the T[+past] morpheme and also have
to be in the same phase-cyclic domain; see Marvin 2002 and Embick 2010 for
discussion.
8. Carstairs-McCarthy (1992) highlights the importance of “morphologically nonlo-
cal” interactions along these lines, with an illustration from Zulu palatalization. See
also Hyman, Inkelas, and Sibanda 2008 for some related phenomena.
9. Banksira treats 3sg.masc.obj as -әU, where the /U/ component contributes [round]
and [high] features that are spread to the left. See his book for other important details
concerning the phonology of labialization.
10. It is also conceivable that certain alternations might actually be triggered in both
ways. With respect to German umlaut, a reviewer makes the important observation that
while certain affixes trigger the change in a target-specific way (recall the examples in
section 9.2.2), other affixes appear to trigger it regularly. These are called “umlaut
variable” and “umlaut conditioning” respectively in Lieber 1987, 100. One possible
line to investigate is that umlaut is an M/M-Rule with the former class of affixes, but
an M/P-Rule with the latter. As the reviewer notes, further complications arise because
of apparent cases of optionality in the umlaut system. In any case, much remains to be
said about this process with reference to the M/M- versus M/P-Rule classification, but
considerations of space rule out further discussion here.
11. Regarding VIO for M-Triggers, Bye and Svenonius (2012) develop something
along the lines of Lieber’s (1987) program (although other assumptions that they make
about insertion at nonterminals might complicate the predictions about
Morphological Locus; see note 15 below). It is not clear at this point that VIO extends
naturally to all of the phenomena treated with morphologically conditioned phonologi-
cal processes. Beyond the question of how all M-Triggers can be reduced to Vocabulary
Morphemes and Morphophonological Loci 165
Insertion, a further question for VIO is how to account for the properties of M-Targets.
Recall from section 9.2.2. that processes like German umlaut and Spanish diphthongi-
zation apply to some morphemes and not to others. Illustrating with the latter, the
morphemes undergoing this process could be identified morphologically (e.g., with
diacritics, as in Harris 1969), or phonologically (by making the underlying phonologi-
cal representations of diphthongizing and nondiphthongizing distinct,
as in Harris 1985). To the extent that “abstract” phonological solutions are not always
available (or correct) for M-Targets, the theory will require phonological rules that
make reference to specific morphemes.
12. For example, there are several affixless approaches that, like Anderson, follow the
lead of Matthews 1972, Aronoff 1976, and others (e.g., Pullum and Zwicky 1991 and
Stump 2001. With respect to stem alternations in particular, there is also the “mor-
phomic” approach advocated in Aronoff 1994 (also a continuation of views from
Matthews 1965, 1972), which has connections as well to diachrony (e.g., Maiden
2004a; see many of the papers in Maiden, Smith, Goldbach, and Hinzelin 2011). Many
of these movements separate themselves from broader architectural questions concern-
ing syntax, semantics, phonology, and so on in such a way as to make substantial
comparisons difficult (although see Embick 1998, 2000, and Embick and Halle 2005
for some discussion of Aronoff’s approach).
On the more experimental side, work in the “words-and-rules” and related frame-
works seems to assume something like Anderson’s view of what it means to be formed
by rule; see, for instance, Pinker 1999, Pinker and Ullman 2002, and the discussion in
Embick and Marantz 2005. Further afield in terms of theoretical perspective,
Seidenberg and Gonnerman 2000 and Hay and Baayen 2005 are representative exam-
ples of approaches that seek to eliminate morphemes in more radical ways.
13. If the M/P rule is iterative, it could apply to intervening Aspect and Tense, and the
Root as well.
14. The same kind of stem insertion could be at the heart of Maiden 2004 and related
treatments of stems, although it is difficult to tell, since an insertion mechanism is not
specified.
15. This argument also applies to approaches like Siddiqi 2009, which treats stem
allomorphy of the sing/sang type by fusing nodes in structures like [[ v] T[+past]];
this creates representations like (14) prior to Vocabulary Insertion. Some theories that
allow insertion of phonological material at nonterminal nodes are subject to this argu-
ment as well (see Bye and Svenonius, 2012 for references), to the extent that the rel-
evant nonterminals contain feature bundles like (15).
10
10.1 Agreement Asymmetries
In many languages the elements of a DP agree with a head noun (nominal
concord). This is illustrated in (1) with an example from Spanish, where there
is gender and number concord with the head noun, which appears in
boldface.
(1) Estas pequeñas casas abandonadas
this.fem.pl small.fem.pl house.fem.pl abandoned.fem.pl
‘these small abandoned houses’
However, concord seems to fail in many languages for some positions, a
phenomenon that has been called lazy concord (see Haiman and Benincà 1992;
Rasom 2008). In most cases, lazy concord affects prenominal elements, not
postnominal ones, as the example in (2) from MoroccanArabic illustrates (data
from Shlonsky 2004). As (2a) shows, demonstratives in postnominal position
agree in gender and number with the noun, in boldface; in (2b) the demonstra-
tives in prenominal positions are bare forms.
(2) a. l wәld had-a l bәnt had-i lǝ wlad had-u
the boy this.masc.sg the girl this.fem.sg the children this.masc.pl
‘this boy’ ‘this girl’ ‘these boys’
b. had l wәld had l bәnt had lǝ wlad
this the boy this the girl this the boys
‘this boy’ ‘this girl’ ‘these boys’
Some other languages that exhibit prenominal-postnominal asymmetries are
Abkhaz (Hewitt 1979), with number concord postnominally but a bare form
prenominally; Central Ladin (Rasom 2008), with feminine plural concord
postnominally but only feminine concord prenominally; or Asturian
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least)
Eulàlia Bonet
168 Chapter 10
(Fernández-Ordóñez 2007), with mass concord postnominally but gender
concord prenominally.
Agreement asymmetries have also been observed at the clause level (clausal
agreement). In these cases the order subject-verb often causes full agreement
while with postverbal subjects lazy agreement is found. An example appears
in (3), from Standard Arabic (Aoun, Benmamoun, and Sportiche 1994). In (3a)
the order S–V causes gender and number agreement on the verb, while in (3b)
the order V–S causes only gender agreement on the verb; the subject appears
in boldface.
(3) a. ʔal-ʔawlaad-u naam-uu
the-children.nom slept.3.masc.pl
‘the children slept’
b. Naam-a l-ʔawlaad-u (*naam-uu l-ʔawlaad-u)
slept.3.masc.sg the-children.nom
‘the children slept’
More examples and a typology of agreement asymmetries with postverbal
subjects can be found in Samek-Lodovici 2002. Similar asymmetries have
been observed in language acquisition (see, for instance, Franck, Lassi,
Frauenfelder, and Rizzi 2006).1
Agreement asymmetries at the clause level and at the DP level show a clear
parallelism: more stable agreement is found when the trigger of agreement
precedes the element(s) it agrees with; less stable agreement is found when
the trigger follows the target(s). This is schematically shown in (4), where the
trigger appears in boldface. Throughout this chapter, the term modifier is used
informally to refer to any element that can enter into an agreement relation
with the noun within the DP.2
(4) a. More stable agreement Clause level: subject verb
DP level: noun modifier
b. Less stable agreement Clause level: verb subject
DP level: modifier noun
10.2 Previous Analyses of the Asymmetries
Several accounts exist of agreement asymmetries within the clause or within
the DP, and in some cases the suggestion is made that the mechanism that
causes DP and clausal asymmetries is the same. Franck et al. (2006), following
work in Guasti and Rizzi 2002, suggest that, at the clause level, full agreement
between a preverbal subject and the verb is the result of features being checked
twice, through Agree and Move (which gives rise to a spec-head configura-
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 169
tion); the weakness found with postverbal subjects is due to features being
checked only once, through Agree. Shlonsky (2004) and Nevins (2011a) claim
that these two different mechanisms for agreement are the source of the asym-
metries within the DP, the harder issue being how to relate postnominal
concord to a spec-head relation. For Shlonsky (2004) full concord within the
DP is achieved indirectly. The head X in (5), which has the NP as its comple-
ment, has semantic features associated with its specifier (AP), but it also has
phi-features that trigger the movement of the NP to the specifier position of
the AgrXP projected by the raised head X (see Shlonsky 2004 for details);
spec-head agreement, direct or indirect, never arises between an Agr-bearing
head and prenominal modifiers.
(5) [AgrXP NP [ AgrX0
[XP AP [ tX tNP ]]]]
Nevins (2011a) argues for a “roll-up” analysis of DP-internal movement
(Cinque 2005), with evidence from DPs with two adjectives, and provides an
analysis of concord based on simplified structure that omits possible DP-
internal functional projections. As shown in the derived structure in (6), an NP
that has raised to the specifier position of the most embedded adjective A2
agrees with it through a spec-head configuration: When this whole structure
A2P is moved to the specifier position of a higher adjective A1, agreement is
obtained again between the specifier A2P and the head A1. Prenominal modi-
fiers are out of the scope of this roll-up movement; no agreement through
spec-head is then possible.3
(6) (A1P (A2P NP (A2′ A2 tNP )) (A1′ A1 tA2P ))
In what follows I will concentrate on two very different proposals that,
contrary to the ones summarized so far, not only suggest a reason for the
existence and the direction of the asymmetries but also try to explain the
crosslinguistic variation that is found, both with respect to the presence or
absence of asymmetries in a given language and with respect to the particular
features that might be involved in the phenomenon. These two proposals are
Samek-Lodovici 2002 and Ackema and Neeleman (A&N) 2003. Both of them
focus on clausal asymmetries, but can be extended to DP asymmetries.
Samek-Lodovici (2002) proposes to account for the asymmetries within
Optimality Theory resorting to two universal constraints related to agreement.
One of them, Agrf, favors local agreement, spec-head agreement for the cases
he considers. The other agreement-related constraint, ExtAgrf, favors general
agreement, both local and long distance. These two constraints compete with
the constraint NoFeats. The definition of these three constraints, all of them
markedness constraints, appears reproduced in (7) (Samek-Lodovici 2002,
170 Chapter 10
(19) (21), (22)). The constraint NoFeats, in spite of its name and its definition,
has to be understood as a constraint that bans agreement. According to
Samek-Lodovici it is violated when agreement occurs.
(7) a. NoFeats: No agreement features.
b. Agrf: An agreement head H and a DP must agree on feature f
within the local projection HP.
c. ExtAgrf: An agreement head H and a DP must agree on feature f
within the extended projection of H.
The ranking ExtAgrf ᐳᐳ NoFeats causes full agreement. The ranking
NoFeats ᐳᐳ Agrf, ExtAgrf, has as a result a generalized lack of agreement.
Agreement asymmetries are obtained when the spec-head agreement con-
straint Agrf dominates the constraint against the expression of agreement
features, NoFeats, and this one in turn dominates the constraint favoring
general agreement, ExtAgrf. The constraints Agrf and ExtAgrf can be rela-
tivized to specific agreement features (e.g., Agrgender, Agrnumber, Agrperson), so a
much finer typology can be derived, as shown by Samek-Lodovici (2002, (2),
(3)).
The redefinition of these constraints, which is needed to extend the proposal
to DP asymmetries, depends on the precise DP-internal structure and opera-
tions assumed, and it will not be attempted here; it is not a trivial matter. But
the basic idea would be the same: one constraint controls local agreement only
(Agrf), and another constraint controls general agreement, local and nonlocal,
within the DP (ExtAgrf). Following the insights in Shlonsky 2004 and Nevins
2011a, Agrf would penalize the lack of agreement between the head N (or,
rather, NP) and other elements with which it enters, directly or indirectly, a
spec-head configuration—that is, postnominal modifiers. The constraint
ExtAgrf would cover agreement either through spec-head or Agree.
The tableau in (8) shows with an abstract example the asymmetries that we
saw illustrated in (2) with an example from Moroccan Arabic. The input con-
tains a prenominal modifier X (a determiner, an adjective), the head N with a
feature [plural], and a postnominal modifier Y.4
Four candidates are consid-
ered: the winning candidate (8a), with only postnominal concord, a candidate
with no concord (8b), a candidate with full concord (8c), and a candidate
with only prenominal concord. The ranking Agrnum ᐳᐳ NoFeats ᐳᐳ
ExtAgrnum forces postnominal concord. Under this model, prenominal-only
concord cannot be obtained under any ranking because that candidate will
always be harmonically bounded by the candidate with postnominal-only
concord. Candidates with this type of asymmetric concord are ignored in other
tableaux.
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 171
(8) Input: X N Y
[pl]
Agrnum NoFeats ExtAgrnum
a. X N Y
[pl][pl]
* *
b. X N Y
[pl]
*! **
c. X N Y
[pl] [pl][pl]
**!
d. X N Y
[pl] [pl]
*! * *
In Samek-Lodovici’s proposal, both agreement and the agreement asym-
metries are obtained in a single step. In section 10.3 it will be shown that a
single-step approach of this type is not adequate for dialects of Spanish where
concord asymmetries affect only a restricted set of nouns.
A&N (2003) (and also A&N 2004, 2012) argue for a very different model
to account for agreement asymmetries (agreement weakening, in their own
terms) within the clause. In their proposal, there is full agreement in the overt
syntax, the weakening arising at PF within prosodic phrases. At PF, before the
insertion of phonological material, there is an initial prosodic phrasing that,
following work by Selkirk and other authors, is determined by alignment
conditions that insert a prosodic phrase boundary ϕ at the right (or left) edge
of each XP.5
For head-initial languages the relevant constraint is as formulated
in (9) (see, for details, A&N 2012, (3); A&N 2003, (4); A&N 2004, 186 (4)).
(9) Align the right edge of an XP with the right edge of a ϕ.
In (10) (corresponding to A&N 2003, (40)) it is shown how the initial pro-
sodic phrasing between subject and verb differs in V-S (10a, a′) and S-V (10b,
b′) sequences. The syntactic structures in (10a,b) map onto the initial prosodic
phrases in (10a’,b’), respectively. The boundaries of prosodic phrases are
indicated by curly brackets.
(10) a. [FP [F V] [IP subject tV [VP tV object]]]
a′. {V subject} {object}
b. [FP subject [F V] [IP tsubject tV [VP tV object]]]
b′. {subject} {V object}
With V-S order the subject and the verb end up in the same prosodic phrase
(see (10a′)), while with S-V order the subject and the verb end up in different
prosodic phrases (see (10b′)). To account for the fact that in Standard Arabic,
as illustrated in (3), there is a loss of number agreement between the subject
172 Chapter 10
and the verb in V-S order (not in S-V order), A&N (2003) propose the weaken-
ing rule in (11) (see A&N 2003, (41)).
(11) Arabic agreement weakening
{[V pl . . .] [D pl . . .]} → {[V . . .] [D pl . . .]}
This weakening rule is a rule of allomorphy that is subject to a recoverability
condition: “rules of suppression operate under agreement” (A&N 2003, (13)).
They can apply to V-S sequences because the verb and the subject agree and
belong to the same prosodic domain. Therefore the plural feature of the first
terminal can be deleted without plurality being lost in that domain. In S-V
sequences the rule cannot apply because the prosodic domain of the subject does
not contain another terminal, so the context of the rule is not met. A&N (2003)
propose very similar rules for other agreement asymmetries within the clause.
Phonological material (the Vocabulary in Distributed Morphology terms, Halle
and Marantz 1993) is inserted after rules of allomorphy have applied, and pro-
sodic phrases can be modified to satisfy weight considerations, for instance.
But if agreement-weakening phenomena within the clause are to be attrib-
uted to PF rules that operate within prosodic constituents in the context of
another terminal, one would expect agreement-weakening phenomena within
the DP to be accounted for in the same fashion. For a complex DP with a
prenominal adjective, a postnominal one, plus a couple of other prenominal
modifiers, the prosodic structure would have to be as shown in (12).
(12) {Dem Num A N} {A}
This prosodic structure can only be obtained if there is only one right edge
of an XP to the right of N (and after the second A); there cannot be any other
right edges of XPs before the noun, because they would trigger the insertion
of a prosodic boundary. The required syntactic configuration is incompatible
with the analysis of DPs proposed in Shlonsky 2004, Cinque 2005, 2010, and
much other work, because it would imply, for instance, that the specifier posi-
tions preceding the NP cannot contain any XP. To push the argument further,
I will assume that some syntactic framework can allow the generation of the
initial prosodic structure in (12).
Given the initial prosodic structure in (12), the prediction is that allomorphy
rules would be able to weaken Dem and Num in (12) but not a postnominal
A. Such an approach could account for gender and number loss in the example
from Moroccan Arabic in (2). A simplified weakening rule deleting the two
features could have the form in (13).
(13) {[X fem pl . . .] [N fem pl . . .]} → {[X . . .] [N fem pl . . .]}
This rule would delete gender and number features in prenominal modifiers,
because they would belong to the same prosodic phrase as N, which contains
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 173
the same features, but it would not affect postonominal modifiers, because
they would constitute separate prosodic phrases.
10.3 A Challenge for Samek-Lodovici 2002 and A&N 2003: Gender Concord
in Dialects of Spanish
The Spanish feminine definite article la surfaces as el before certain feminine
nouns that start with a stressed a. So, feminine nouns like agua [áɣwa] ‘water’
(cf. agua fría ‘water.fem cold.fem’) surface with the definite article el, el agua
‘the water’, in spite of the fact that the regular feminine definite article is la (cf.
la nieve ‘the snow’, la imagen ‘the image’, la almohada [almoáða] ‘the pillow’).
The change in the article does not affect categories other than nouns (not adjectives
or adverbs: la antes mencionada ‘the.fem before mentioned.fem’; not proper
names: la Ágata ‘theAgatha’), it applies only under adjacency between the definite
article and the noun (la plácida agua ‘the.fem quiet.fem water.fem’), and it applies
only with singular, not plural, nouns (las aguas ‘the.fem.pl waters.fem.pl’). Some
studies, like Halle, Harris, and Vergnaud 1991, have focused on the fact that in
some dialects the replacement also occurs when the initial a is not stressed on the
surface, as in el agüita [aɣwíta] ‘the water (dim.)’ or el aguanieve [aɣwanjéβe]
‘the sleet’. Others have tried to establish whether the article el used with feminine
nouns is a surface allomorph of the feminine article (with deletion of the final
vowel and insertion of an initial epenthetic vowel) or the masculine definite
article, and some have concentrated on the segments that trigger the change, a
contact between two low vowels, which would occur if the feminine article sur-
faced (cf. *la agua). For different views on these issues see, among many others,
Zwicky 1985, Harris 1987, Kikuchi 2001, and Cutillas 2003.
In other varieties of Spanish the change in the definite article has extended to
the indefinite article, some quantifiers, and demonstratives. But here I want to
concentrate on some varieties of Spanish that have generalized the use of mas-
culine agreement: all elements that precede feminine nouns like agua in the DP
are masculine, while all the postnominal ones are feminine. Some examples
appear in (14) (for more examples, see Eddington and Hualde 2008 as well as
Bonet, Lloret, and Mascaró, forthcoming). All prenominal modifiers are mascu-
line while postnominal ones are feminine. The noun appears in boldface.
(14) a. el nuevo arma secreta
the.masc new.masc weapon.fem secret.fem
b. todo su área delantera
all.masc poss. area.fem front.fem
c. el mismo agua parecerá fría
the.masc same.mascwater.fem will-seem cold.fem
174 Chapter 10
The three examples in (14) show that the masculine surfaces even if no
vowel contact would occur. In (14a), for instance, the feminine article la would
be next to a consonant: *la nuevo. (14b) shows, in addition, that adjacency
between the prenominal element and the noun is not a requirement: todo sur-
faces as masculine even though the adjacency with the noun is broken by an
invariable possessive su. A valid conclusion for this variety is that the class of
feminine nouns that trigger the concord asymmetry is now an idiosyncratic
class of nouns that only historically triggered a phonological dissimilation
process. Outside of the DP, nouns like agua trigger feminine agreement in all
varieties of Spanish (el agua parece fría ‘the water seems cold.fem’; la bebo
‘(I) drink it.fem’). The fact that the agreement asymmetry arises only for
a subset of feminine nouns indicates that it is not a purely syntactic
phenomenon.
Assuming that masculine is a default gender, and ignoring for the time being
the fact that the asymmetries in gender concord arise only in the singular (not
in the plural), a general asymmetry between prenominal and postnominal ele-
ments could easily be accounted for in Samek-Lodovici’s model, as illustrated
in (15) with the example in (14a). This tableau is a concrete example of the
schematic tableau in (8), and the same type of candidates are considered. Only
the N arma is inherently specified as feminine in the input; the constraint
hierarchy favors the candidate with postnominal, but not prenominal, concord,
due to the higher ranking of Agrgen, the constraint that forces local agreement,
over ExtAgrgen, the more general agreement constraint.6
(15) Tableau corresponding to el nuevo arma secreta ‘the new secret
weapon’
Input: l nuev- arma secret-
[fem]
Agrgen NoFeats ExtAgrgen
a. el nuevo arma secreta
[fem] [fem]
* **
b. el nuevo arma secreto
[fem]
*! ***
c. la nueva arma secreta
[fem][fem] [fem] [fem]
***!
One first question to address is how to restrict this asymmetry in concord
to specific lexical items, because it is not the case that any feminine noun of
the language can trigger the asymmetry. A paradox arises because for the quite
restricted set of nouns that trigger this phenomenon we need the ranking shown
in (15), Agrgen ᐳᐳ NoFeats ᐳᐳ ExtAgrgen, while for the vast majority of
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 175
nouns, which show full concord, we need the opposite ranking, ExtAgrgen ᐳᐳ
NoFeats (the ranking of Agrgen being irrelevant). In optimality theory two
main proposals have been made to account for lexically restricted processes:
cophonologies (proposed in Orgun 1996 and Anttila 1997) and lexically
indexed constraints (developed by Itô and Mester 1999 and Pater 2000). Under
the first of these two approaches, as instantiated in Inkelas and Zoll 2007,
specific lexical items are subject to specific constraint rankings; they have
different subgrammars. In the case at hand, the language would have a general
ranking Agrgen ᐳᐳ {ExtAgrgen, NoFeats}. The set of items that include agua
would be lexically specified for the ranking NoFeats ᐳᐳ ExtAgrgen, while
the complementary set of items would be specified for the opposite ranking:
ExtAgrgen ᐳᐳ NoFeats. Although this approach would work mechanically,
it faces a problem pointed out in Pater 2010, namely that it cannot differentiate
variation from exceptionality. Here it is clear that items like agua are excep-
tional; all other nouns are subject to the default ranking ExtAgrgen ᐳᐳ
NoFeats. This ranking should not have to be specified for each lexical item,
including new coinages. Under the lexically indexed constraints approach,
certain constraints have a general version, C1, and a version that is restricted
to affect only a class of lexical items L indexed for that constraint, C1L. The
application of a process to a restricted set of items is obtained through the
ranking C1L ᐳᐳ C2 ᐳᐳ C1. The facts from Spanish can be accounted for if
the lexically indexed constraint is NoFeats. The ranking of all the constraints
will then be Agrgen ᐳᐳ NoFeatsL ᐳᐳ ExtAgrgen ᐳᐳ NoFeats.7
With
this ranking, postnominal concord is systematic. NoFeatsL is relevant
only for nouns like agua or arma, for which it will prevent any prenominal
concord features from being realized, as shown in (16). For the rest of the
nouns of the language, ExtAgrgen will favor across-the-board concord, as
shown in (17).
(16) Tableau corresponding to el nuevo arma secreta ‘the new secret
weapon’, with lexically indexed constraints
Input: l nuev- armaL secret-
[fem]
Agrgen NoFeatsL ExtAgrgen NoFeats
a. el nuevo armaL secreta
[fem] [fem]
* ** *
b. el nuevo armaL secreto
[fem]
*! ***
c. la nueva armaL secreta
[fem] [fem] [fem] [fem]
***! ***
176 Chapter 10
(17) Tableau corresponding to la nueva policía secreta ‘the new secret
police’
Input: l nuev- policía secret-
[fem]
Agrgen NoFeatsL ExtAgrgen NoFeats
a. el nuevo policía secreta
[fem] [fem]
**! *
b. el nuevo policía secreto
[fem]
*! ***
c. la nueva policía secreta
[fem][fem] [fem] [fem]
***
The second question to address is how the two approaches to exceptionality
can account for the fact that, as mentioned earlier, the concord asymmetry in
Spanish affects only singular nouns, not plural nouns, as illustrated in (18).8
(18) a. el nuevo arma secreta
the.masc.sg new.masc.sg weapon.fem.sg secret.fem.sg
b. las nuevas armas secretas
the.fem.pl new.fem.pl weapon.fem.pl secret.fem.pl
One difficulty stems from the fact that both cophonologies and lexically indexed
constraints always target specific lexical items, not lexical items under certain
conditions (here being exceptional only when singular). But here for both models
some reference to the context would have to be introduced. Within cophonologies
nouns like arma would need to have two different constraint rankings contextually
determined in their lexical entry. For instance, arma would have, in its lexical entry,
the specifications ExtAgrgen ᐳᐳ NoFeats / __ pl and NoFeats ᐳᐳ ExtAgrgen/
__ sg; this specification would not capture the observation that, when plural, nouns
like arma behave like any normal noun in the language. In the lexically indexed
constraints approach the constraint NoFeatsL would have to be restricted to apply
when the noun is singular; the constraint would be something like NoFeatsL / __
sg.A second difficulty comes from the vagueness of the definition of the constraint
NoFeats. Samek-Lodovici relates it to a more general constraint against structure
(*Struc, Prince and Smolensky [1993] 2004), but NoFeats is not just a constraint
against features (otherwise the noun would violate it too), but is a constraint against
features that are the result of a relationship (agreement). The locus of potential
violations (the modifiers) is different from the locus of exceptionality (the noun).
So, it would be tricky to rule out candidates with features that are not the result
of agreement, but that have been provided by Gen.
The facts of Spanish are not easily accounted for in A&N’s model either. The
loss of [feminine] in prenominal position would be the result of a weakening
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 177
rule applying within a prosodic phrase in the context of a feminine noun in the
same prosodic domain. Leaving aside for a moment the restriction to specific
lexical items, the weakening rule could have the form in (19), where X stands
for any prenominal categories that can coappear with a feminine noun.
(19) {[X fem sg . . .] [N fem sg . . .]} → {[X sg . . .] [N fem sg . . .]}
This rule would cause the loss of [feminine] in singular elements in pre-
nominal position but it would not affect modifiers in postnominal position.
Plural nouns would not be affected by (19). In this case, again, the trickiest
part would be how to restrict the rule to apply only to specific lexical items,
especially given that A&N assume late insertion, and that the spell-out of
terminals applies after the application of context-sensitive allomorphy rules.
One possibility is to assume, with Embick and Halle 2005 and other work,
that roots are phonologically present already in the syntax or, alternatively,
that they can ultimately be identified through abstract indices or some sort of
diacritic feature.9
Then the rule in (19) could be slightly modified as in (20)
to affect only specified nouns. (20a) and (20b) constitute two ways of notating
the restriction to specific lexical items.
(20) {[X fem sg . . .] [N* fem sg . . .]} → {[X sg . . .] [N* fem sg . . .]}
a. N*: arma, agua, área, . . .
b. N*: N22
, N317
, N683
, . . . (where N22
= arma, N317
= agua, N683
= área, . . .)
10.4 A Challenge for A&N 2003: Gender and Mass Concord in Asturian
Asturian nominals have, in addition to gender and number, a distinction
between mass and count.10
For instance, the masculine noun for ‘thread’ is
realized as filu, with the ending -u, when it is interpreted as a count noun, and
as filo, with the ending -o, when it is interpreted as a mass noun. Postnominal
adjectives show the same -u/-o distinction, as illustrated in (21). Feminine
nouns, like cebolla ‘onion’, have the ending -a under the two interpretations,
but the count-mass distinction does surface in postnominal adjectives, where
the ending for mass interpretation is -o, the same one that is found with mas-
culine nouns. This appears illustrated in (22).
(21) a. filu blancu masc, count
b. filo blanco masc, mass
‘white thread’
(22) a. cebolla blanca fem, count
b. cebolla blanco fem, mass
‘white onion’
178 Chapter 10
However, prenominal elements agree with the noun only with respect to
gender, not with respect to mass. The examples in (23) and (24) show
the asymmetries in concord when the noun receives a mass interpretation. The
noun fierru/o in (23) means ‘iron’, and manzana in (24) means ‘apple’; the
relative order of the adjectives is the same as in English.
(23) a. duru fierru ferruñosu masc, count
b. duru fierro ferruñoso masc, mass
‘hard rusty iron’
(24) a. guapa manzana madura fem, count
b. guapa manzana maduro fem, mass
‘good ripe apple’
In (23b) and (24b) the noun has gender and mass features; gender spreads
to prenominal elements while mass spreads to postnominal elements. (25)
shows schematically how gender and mass concord work in Asturian. The
asymmetries arise only when the noun has a mass interpretation, as (25a)
illustrates. When the noun has a default count interpretation, gender spreads
to prenominal and postnominal elements, as shown in (25b).
(25) a. Mass interpretation
b. Count interpretation
X N Y
X N Y
MASC/FEM
MASC/FEM
MASS
COUNT
Asturian concord asymmetries cannot be accounted for in a straightforward
fashion through weakening rules of the type proposed in A&N 2003. Given
that the structure of the DP looks, in all relevant respects, identical to the one
for Spanish, the initial prosodic structure that creates the domains for the
weakening rules would be the same: {X N} {Y}. Syntactically full concord
for gender and mass would affect the whole DP, which at that point contains
only abstract terminals. A weakening rule deleting all mass features but the
last within the first prosodic phrase {X N} would account for the fact that only
gender concord surfaces prenominally. But the preference for the exponence
of mass over the exponence of gender for all postnominal elements cannot be
accounted for by a weakening rule; in that domain, {Y}, mass and gender are
wrongly predicted to survive: the Recoverability condition does not allow
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 179
deletion because there is no other terminal with those features within that
prosodic domain. It could be argued that, because the adjectival endings realize
either gender or mass (masculine: -u, feminine: -a, mass: -o), some additional
mechanism favors the realization of mass over gender. But this mechanism
would be very different from the one that applies prenominally, even though
the conflict between exponents would also be present in that position. Resort-
ing to other prosodic phrasings would not improve the analysis. If the phrasing
were {X} {N Y} (with left alignment in (6), instead of right alignment), the
problems would be transfered to prenominal elements. The only phrasing that
would allow for an account within this model would be to posit a single pro-
sodic phrase for the whole DP: {X N Y}. One weakening rule, (26a), would
delete the mass feature from prenominal elements and another weakening rule,
(26b), would delete the gender feature from postnominal elements.
(26) a. {[X ±fem mass . . .] [N ±fem mass . . .]} → {[X ±fem . . .]
[N ±fem mass . . .]}
b. {[N ±fem mass . . .] [X ±fem mass . . .]} → {[N ±fem mass . . .]
[X mass . . .]}
The relevant question is, though, how this initial prosodic phrasing could be
obtained. It would have to be assumed that syntactically only the head N, instead
of the NP, raises when N is not final, contrary to what one would have to assume
for Spanish, a very closely related language. This relates to a more general
problem, mentioned in section 10.2: to prevent more than one prosodic phrase
from being created within the DP, no right (or left) XP boundaries should exist
internally to the DP, a very strong claim that goes in the opposite direction from
most analyses of DP structure (see, among many others, Svenonius 2008).11
For Samek-Lodovici’s model, which does not resort to prosodic phrasing,
the data from Asturian can be accounted for with no modification of the model.
A top-ranked Agrmass constraint would favor postnominal mass concord, and
the lower-ranking ExtAgrgen ᐳᐳ ExtAgrmass would force gender concord
prenominally.
10.5 Concord in Two Steps
The model to be sketched in this section shares with A&N the idea that agree-
ment asymmetries are obtained in two steps, a syntactic one and a postsyntactic
one. With Samek-Lodovici it shares the optimality-theoretic orientation, with
some very similar constraints. A more detailed description of this model, with
examples from several languages, can be found in Bonet, Lloret, and Mascaró
(BL&M), forthcoming, and in Bonet and Mascaró (B&M) 2012.
180 Chapter 10
In the BL&M model, contrary to A&N, the syntax is responsible only for
postnominal concord, most likely through spec-head agreement. This assump-
tion is compatible with claims in Shlonsky 2004 or Nevins 2011a, mentioned
in section 10.2, and would cover a similar agreement domain as the marked-
ness constraint Agrf in Samek-Lodovici 2002 as applied to the DP in sections
10.2 and 10.3. Postsyntactically, faithfulness constraints of the Max family
(27a), which protect postnominal concord, and general Conc(ord) marked-
ness constraints, (27b), compete with each other and are the source of the
existing asymmetries. Conc(ord) is equivalent to Samek-Lodovici’s ExtAgrf.
The scope of the two types of postsyntactic constraints is represented in (28).
(27) a. Max: Every inflectional feature of the input has a
correspondent in the output.
b. Conc(ord): If a N has an inflectional feature F, all other modifiers
within the DP must have the inflectional feature F.
(28) X N Y
MAX
CONC
This model, like Samek-Lodovici’s, can account in a straightforward fashion
for the concord asymmetries found in Asturian. The tableau in (29) shows
schematically how the asymmetric concord in a sequence like guapa manzana
maduro ‘good ripe apple’, (24b), would be obtained.
(29)
Input: X N Y
fem.mss fem.mss
Max
(mss)
Conc
(gen)
Conc
(mass)
Max
(gen)
a. X N Y
fem fem.mss mss
* * *
b. X N Y
fem fem.mss fem
*! **
c. X N Y
mss fem.mss mss
**! *
d. X N Y
mss fem.mss fem
*! * *
The modifiers can realize only mass or gender (typically -o for mass, -u for
masculine, -a for feminine), and these morphs are introduced by Gen. For this
reason, no candidates are considered in (29) with modifiers that express both
gender and mass.
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 181
This analysis overcomes the problems mentioned in section 10.4 for the
approach by A&N, which relies crucially on initial prosodic phrases. The BL&M
proposal also avoids some of the difficulties the one-step approach by
Samek-Lodovici runs into for the concord asymmetry found in dialects of Spanish
with lexical items like agua or arma. Recall that only certain feminine nouns cause
the asymmetry, and that the asymmetry arises only in the singular; when the noun
is plural concord applies in a totally regular fashion. Postnominal gender and
number concord takes place in the syntax. Postsyntactically an impoverishment
rule deletes the feature [feminine] in a specified set of nouns, as shown in (30).
(30) [fem] → Ø / __[sg] for agua, arma, ave, . . .
The loss of the feature [feminine] prevents it from spreading to prenominal
elements. The tableaux in (31) and (32) show very schematically how lazy
concord is obtained in the singular but not in the plural, with full concord. The
constraint Conc(fem.pl) is a shorthand for two constraints that favor concord
for marked gender and number features—that is, feminine and plural. This
constraint is not relevant in (31) because the N has neither feminine nor plural
features, but it becomes crucial in (32), where it prevents the concord asymmetry.
The constraint *Fem(inine) belongs to the family *Struc, against structure.
(31) Lazy concord with singular nouns like agua ‘water’
Input: X N Y
_sg fem.sg
Max Conc
(fem.pl)
*Fem
a. X N Y
sg _sg fem.sg
*
b. X N Y
fem.sg _sg fem.sg
**!
c. X N Y
sg _sg sg
*!
(32) Full concord with plural nouns like aguas ‘waters’
Input: X N Y
fem.pl fem.pl
Max Conc
(fem.pl)
*Fem
a. X N Y
pl fem.pl fem.pl
*! **
b. X N Y
fem.pl f.pl fem.pl
***!
c. X N Y
pl fem.pl pl
* **! *
182 Chapter 10
10.6 Conclusions
This chapter has compared three possible analyses of DP-internal concord asym-
metries, the first two, Samek-Lodovici 2002 and A&N 2003, having originally
been designed to handle subject-verb asymmetries. The one-step analysis by
Samek-Lodovici would especially run into problems with the fact that, in certain
dialects of Spanish, the asymmetry is triggered by specific nouns and only in
the singular. In A&N’s proposal, a two-step process, there is full concord syn-
tactically and, at PF, weakening rules restricted to prosodic phrases determine
the final asymmetric concord. This proposal raises several questions concerning
the construction of initial prosodic phrasing and encounters problems especially
with the analysis of Asturian, where there is gender concord prenominally but
mass concord postnominally. In the two-step proposal advocated here, postnomi-
nal agreement takes place syntactically and is controlled postsyntactically by
faithfulness constraints, which confict with a general agreement markedness
constraint. This proposal does not encounter the problems faced by the other
proposals in the analysis of the Spanish and Asturian facts.
In the very sketchy analysis of Spanish and Asturian there are issues that have
not been addressed and that will be left open here due to space considerations.
An important one has to do with the interaction between asymmetries and late
insertion. This issue was briefly addressed in the last part of section 10.3, con-
cerning the A&N model, which also assumes late insertion. To restrict lazy
concord in Spanish to specific nouns, it was suggested that, following Embick
and Halle 2005, it could be assumed that roots or abstract indices (or some
diacritic feature) identifying them could be present in the syntax. Another issue
is the timing and manner of exponence of the impoverished noun in Spanish.
An item like agua has the same class marker -a in the singular, where it has lost
the feature [feminine], and in the plural (aguas), where it has kept it. This would
not be a problem for proposals like A&N, where the feature makeup of the Noun
does not change during the derivation. There are several ways to approach this
issue within the present model. To mention one of them, the final -a could be
considered a stem formative in the sense of Bermúdez-Otero 2006, rather than
a gender or class marker. Then the only exponent possible for ‘water’ would be
agu-a, regardless of the presence or absence of the feature [feminine].
Notes
I would like to thank Ora Matushansky and an anonymous reviewer for their helpful
comments. Thanks also go to Joan Mascaró and Carme Picallo for comments and
discussion on the first draft of this chapter, parts of which were presented at the Uni-
Agreement in Two Steps (at Least) 183
versity of Manchester (February 2012) and at the Workshop on the Selection and
Representation of Morphological Exponents (IS/CASTL, Tromsø, June 2012). I thank
the audiences at these two events for their comments. This research received financial
support from the Spanish Ministry of Education (grant FFI 2010-22181-CO3-01) and
the Generalitat de Catalunya (research group 2009SGR1079).
1. A different issue is the competition that arises in languages like Georgian where
both the subject and the object trigger verb agreement. See McGinnis (chapter 3, this
volume) for a proposal that accounts for the lack of double number marking on
the verb.
2. An anonymous reviewer points out that there is a clear configurational difference
between clausal agreement and DP agreement: in clausal agreement the subject is an
XP while in DP agreement the noun is a head. Nevertheless, several authors (most
extensively, Cinque 2010) have argued for NP movement and against N movement
within the DP. As briefly described in section 10.2, Shlonsky (2004) explicitly argues
that not only movement but also concord within the DP is achieved with the NP,
not N.
3. There are other proposals on DP–internal agreement that do not consider the asym-
metries that can arise between prenominal and postnominal modifiers (see, for instance,
Picallo 2008 or Schoorlemmer 2009). It is unclear how they would account for these
asymmetries.
4. Number and gender features appear in this chapter with the notation typically
attributed to privative features (e.g., [plural]) to simplify their representation. See
Harbour (chapter 8, this volume) for arguments in favor of binary number features.
5. A&N (2003) use the term prosodic phrase to refer to some intermediate structure,
between syntactic structure and real prosodic structure. The structure cannot be strictly
prosodic because at that point the insertion of phonological material has not taken place
yet, and therefore the phrasing cannot be sensitive to weight, for instance.
6. For concreteness and clarity, in (15) I assume that the input contains phonolo-
gically realized roots plus a noun with realized inflection. It is not clear whether
Samek-Lodovici would endorse late insertion.
7. Most proponents of lexically indexed constraints defend the view that these should
be restricted to faithfulness constraints. This is an unavailable option here because all
the constraints under consideration are markedness constraints.
8. The presence of full concord with plural nouns is a historical residue of the older
restriction against a contact between low vowels. In the plural, the presence of the
plural morph -s broke the adjacency between the two vowels.
9. Abstract indices are posited in Embick and Halle 2005 to differentiate homophonous
roots.
10. Due to limitations of space, number is ignored in what follows. Number is incom-
patible with mass. See Bonet and Mascaró 2012 for a more detailed description and
analysis of Asturian concord asymmetries; see also Mascaró 2011.
11. An additional problem for A&N’s model is related to the idea that asymmetries in
agreement are obtained before Vocabulary Insertion. Evidence that this cannot be true
comes from North-Eastern Central Catalan (NEC Catalan), where plural concord fails
184 Chapter 10
to surface only prenominally, and crucially only when the plural morph -s would
surface between consonants, as the following examples show (see Bonet, Lloret and
Mascaró, forthcoming, for more examples and argumentation, see also Nevins 2011a).
The agreement asymmetries must arise at least at the same time Vocabulary Insertion
takes place.
(i) a. molt_ poc_ professional-s bon-s present-s
much few professional.PL good.PL present.PL
‘very few present good professionals’
b. el-s antic-s amics
the.PL old.PL friend.PL
‘the old friends’
11
11.1 Shifting Domains
The notion of a cyclic derivation, defining (sub)domains in a grammatical
derivation to which rules apply, dates from some of the earliest work in modern
linguistics and is a recurring theme in the work of Morris Halle (see, famously,
Chomsky and Halle 1968). In phonology, it is recognized that not all mor-
pheme concatenation triggers cyclic rule application, but that certain mor-
phemes are designated triggers of cyclic rules (see, e.g., Halle and Vergnaud
1987 for one approach). A related idea pervades the history of syntax, holding
that there are cyclic domains defined (at least in part) with reference to par-
ticular heads/projections, and that these cycles enforce locality conditions on
syntactic dependencies (see, e.g., Ross 1967; Chomsky 1973, 1986). Within
the intermodular perspective of Distributed Morphology (Halle and Marantz
1993) various authors have raised the question of how the domains (e.g.,
cycles, phases) of one module (syntax, morphology, semantics) interact with
those of others (see also Scheer 2008 and related work).
In this short chapter, we explore one small aspect of this large puzzle. Spe-
cifically, we propose a general rubric that allows for some slippage in other-
wise well-established locality domains—cases in which a well-motivated
cyclic domain appears to be suspended, allowing dependencies to span a larger
structure than they normally may. To the extent that this is on the right track,
it bolsters arguments that cyclic domains constrain the locality of operations
across modules and thus constitute a deep property of grammar. Specifically,
we suggest that the following Domain Suspension principle holds across
modules, and present two applications, one from suppletion in morphology,
the other from quantifier raising (QR), suggesting the potentially broad appli-
cability of the principle.1
Suspension across Domains
Jonathan David Bobaljik
Susi Wurmbrand
186 Chapter 11
(1) In the following configuration (linear order irrelevant), where the
projection of Y would normally close off a domain, formation of such a
domain is suspended just in case Y depends on X for its interpretation.
[ X [Y
n
Y]]
Although (1) could be implemented in various ways, we conceive of suspen-
sion not as an operation, but as a condition restricting (or defining exceptions
to) the algorithm(s) that determine(s) derivationally whether a given maximal
projection will or will not constitute (or close off) a domain. Various terms in
this general scheme (notably domain, interpretation) are relativized to some
extent, to the module under consideration, accounting for a slight difference
in the ways in which (1) plays out in the different components of grammar.
For the cases considered here, the algorithms subject to Domain Suspension
in the structure in (1) include:
(2) a. Morphology: If X is a cyclic head, then Yn
is a spell-out domain,
unless Y depends on X for its interpretation.
b. Syntax: If Yn
is the highest projection of a (potential) cyclic domain,
then Yn
constitutes a phase, unless Y depends on X for its
interpretation.
We illustrate these in turn.
11.2 Optimal Suspension: Superlative Suppletion
The first case of (1) that we consider is in the morphology, and is drawn from
the study of adjectival suppletion in Bobaljik 2012. We limit ourselves to a
brief presentation here and refer the reader to the work cited for additional
detail and important qualifications.
In a comprehensive survey of suppletion in adjectival gradation (good–
better–best), encompassing some 116 distinct suppletive cognate triples (posi-
tive–comparative–superlative) from more than 70 languages, Bobaljik
reports the following patterns.
(3) Regular A A A big–bigger–biggest
Suppletive A B B good–better–best
Doubly suppletive A B C bonus–melior–optimus
Unattested A B A *good–better–goodest
A A B *good–gooder–best
Bobaljik argues that the (relative) superlative is universally built from the
comparative, hence the underlying structure is (hierarchically) [[[ root] cmpr]
sprl]. The structure is transparent in many languages, illustrated in (4), but
Suspension across Domains 187
obscured by a null comparative allomorph in the superlative in some (such as
English). That is, we assume that even in English, the superlative has the
structure [[[ big] ØER] est] (Bobaljik 2012 constitutes an extended defense of
this analysis; see also Stateva 2002).2
(4) pos cmpr sprl gloss
a. Persian bozorg bozorg-tar bozorg-tar-in ‘big’
b. Cimbrian šüa šüan-ar šüan-ar-ste ‘pretty’
c. Czech: mlad-ý mlad-ší nej-mlad-ší ‘young’
d. Hungarian: nagy nagy-obb leg-nagy-obb ‘big’
e. Latvian: zil-ais zil-âk-ais vis-zil-âk-ais ‘gray’
f. Ubykh: nüs°ə ç’a-nüs°ə a-ç’a-nüs°ə ‘pretty’
This nested structure, along with the assumption that suppletion is the result
of contextual allomorphy of the root, as in (5), explains the absence of the
ABA pattern: in the absence of a more specific rule, the Subset Principle (Halle
1997a) ensures that (5a) will bleed (5b) in the comparative and in the superla-
tive (because the environment for application is met in both instances).
(5) a. good → be(tt) / __] cmpr
b. good → good / <elsewhere>
A simple explanation for the complete absence of the AAB pattern, which we
assume is essentially correct, supplements the account just given with the
additional assumption that the cmpr node is cyclic (i.e., domain-defining), and
that the sprl morpheme is thus insufficiently local to be able to serve as the
context triggering a suppletive root (see Embick 2010 and Bobaljik 2012 for
different views on the interaction of cyclicity and locality for allomorphy).3
Recall that, by hypothesis, the superlative is derived from the comparative. At
the intermediate point in this derivation where the comparative head is intro-
duced, the representation is as in (6a).
(6) a. [[√ root] cmpr]
b. [[[√ root] cmpr] sprl]
We assume cmpr is cyclic, and thus it triggers spell-out of its complement.
That is, the complement of cmpr is a spell-out domain, which we take to mean,
at a minimum, that rules of exponence/Vocabulary Insertion apply at this stage.
For an adjective such as big that lacks a suppletive comparative allomorph
along the lines of (5a), spell-out will apply and insert the default form of the
root. When the sprl morpheme is subsequently added (as in (6b)), it is too
late to trigger a special rule at the root cycle, since the form of the root has
already been fixed.
188 Chapter 11
Attractive as it may seem (especially in that the *AAB pattern is robustly
unattested, constituting zero of the 116 suppletive triples in Bobaljik’s sample),
it is factually incorrect that the superlative cannot govern a suppletive root
allomorph. The Latin ABC triple bonus–melior–optimus ‘good–better–best’
shows this to be the case (there are a handful of other such patterns, including
in Welsh and Middle Persian). The generalization appears to be this: the super-
lative head is accessible as a context for root allomorphy just in case the
comparative also triggers root allomorphy (ABC), but if the comparative is
regular, then so too must the superlative be regular: (AAX → AAA). Domain
Suspension in (1) explains why this is so, as follows.
We take (7) to be the representation of the Latin ‘good’ root allomorphs.4
(7) a. good, cmpr → opt- / __] sprl
b. good → mel- / __] cmpr
c. good → bon- / <elsewhere>
A root like big that does not have a comparative allomorph does not depend
on the node cmpr for its interpretation, that is, for the choice of exponent.
This allows such roots to be spelled out on the cycle introduced by cmpr as
indicated above. By contrast, the Latin (7) and English (5) roots meaning
‘good’ do depend on the head cmpr—the exponent to be selected in a deriva-
tion cannot be determined without reference to this head. As such, Domain
Suspension is triggered and spell-out is delayed (as it were) until the next
higher cycle. At the next higher cycle, the head sprl is introduced, and is thus
available to trigger allomorphy (perhaps subject to an adjacency requirement,
and thus permitting only portmanteau allomorphy for the root plus cmpr as in
(7a)).
Note, importantly, that Domain Suspension, as formulated, does not permit
of a hypothetical Latin′, just like (7) but omitting (7b), and yielding the unat-
tested AAB pattern: *bonus–bonior–optimus. Establishment of a spell-out
domain is only suspended if the head of the erstwhile domain depends on the
cyclic head for its interpretation. A rule like (7b) thus establishes exactly the
right type of dependency to suspend the domain, but a rule like (7a), which
only indirectly affects the form of the adjectival root, but does not operate on
the root node as such, does not.
In sum, the idea that locality is defined (at least in part) in terms of (cyclic)
domains, provides, in the case at hand, a straightforward account of an excep-
tionless crosslinguistic generalization, namely, the absence of *AAB patterns
in adjectival suppletion. Patterns of this sort simply do not exist. On the other
hand, the Domain Suspension Principle in (1) provides a loophole, allowing
for a very narrow class of cases in which locality is weakened and where
Suspension across Domains 189
suppletion of (a constituent including) the root may be governed by the super-
lative. Domain Suspension requires, correctly, that these cases have certain
hallmark properties—at a minimum, they must constitute ABC patterns, in
which the comparative is independently suppletive, since it is exactly the rule
that yields comparative suppletion that prevents the establishment of an opaque
(i.e., cyclic) domain including the root.
11.3 Tense Dependencies: Phase Suspension and QR
We now explore the analog of (1) in syntax. In this component, we take phases
to be the crucial locality domain regulating the locality of various dependen-
cies. It is well established that infinitives and subjunctives, in contrast to finite
indicative clauses, are transparent for various properties crosslinguistically
(e.g., long-distance reflexive binding, Condition B transparency, NPI-licens-
ing, Case licensing, A-movement, control, scope, and others). The degree of
porosity of the embedded clauses often goes along the following continuum:
finite » subjunctive » infinitive » raising. QR in English poses an odd puzzle:
it is possible from control and ECM infinitives, as well as subjunctive clauses,
but not from finite clauses (at one end of this continuum), nor from raising
constructions, which are often assumed to be the most transparent configura-
tions. This is illustrated by the examples in (8) (see Kayne 1981, 1998;
Longobardi 1992; Lebeaux 1995; Bayer 1996; Kennedy 1997; Fox 1999,
2000; Johnson 2000, among others, for further examples, qualifications, and
controls).
(8) a. #Someone said that Sue is married to every man.
ᗄ»∃ (finite)
b. She has requested that they read only Aspects.
only » request (subjunctive)
c. A different student decided to report on every article.
ᗄ»∃ (infinitive)
d. Someone expects Sue to marry every boy.
ᗄ»∃ (infinitive)
e. #This soldier seems to someone to be likely to die in every battle.
*ᗄ»∃ (raising)
Wurmbrand (forthcoming) adopts a cyclic spell-out model according to which
completed cycles (phases) are subject to transfer followed by (LF and PF)
spell-out of the complement of the phase head. Since, per common assump-
tion, a spelled-out domain is inaccessible for further syntactic operations (such
as movement), this model has as a consequence that movement (whether overt
190 Chapter 11
or covert) is phase-bound (see also Cecchetto 2003, 2004; Takahashi 2010).
The main proposal regarding the distribution of QR in (8) is that finite clauses
and raising infinitives involve a solid phasal domain, hence block QR, whereas
control and ECM infinitives trigger domain suspension in (1), hence allow QR.
A simplified structure for finite and raising complements is given in (9).5
In finite embedded complements, XP corresponds to CP, in raising infinitives
to AspP (see Wurmbrand 2011). Crucially, in both constructions, we argue,
XP constitutes a phase. Following ideas in Bobaljik and Wurmbrand 2005 and
Bošković2010, we pursue a dynamic phasehood view; specifically we propose
that the highest projection of a clause, no matter what category or label, con-
stitutes a phase. This is responsible for making the CP of a finite clause as
well as the AspP of a raising infinitive a phase, hence a locality domain for
movement.
(9)
VP
vP
vP
XP
X’
...
...
...
v’
SUBJ
phase
Spelled
out after
XP is
completed
said/seems
X
that/to
*QP
QPOBJ
V
Before laying out how exactly phasehood is determined in this dynamic phase-
hood model, consider the effects of the assumption that XP in (9) is a phase.
First, a derivation that involves movement of a QP from the complement of
the phase head X across XP is excluded. Since the complement of X is a spell-
out domain, any material within that domain will be inaccessible for further
operations. Second, a derivation involving successive cyclic movement of a
QP to Spec,XP is excluded by Fox’s (2000) Scope Economy condition. Scope
Economy is essentially a Last Resort condition for covert movement that states
that each step of QR must be semantically motivated and cannot be semanti-
cally vacuous. Since movement of a QP to Spec,XP does not yield a different
interpretation, it is excluded by Scope Economy. For an embedded QP to take
matrix scope, however, movement through Spec,XP would be necessary, since
otherwise the QP is trapped in a spell-out domain. But since successive cyclic
movement is not available, QR to the matrix clause is excluded. Thus, the
Suspension across Domains 191
dynamic phase view proposed here unifies the clause-boundedness effects
found in English finite indicative clauses and raising infinitives.
While phasehood of finite CPs is uncontroversial, the claim that raising
infinitives are phases is less obvious. One piece of motivation is provided by
the binding properties in (10) (due to Fox, cited in Grohmann, Drury, and
Castillo 2000; Bošković2002; Pesetsky and Torrego 2007; Castillo, Drury, and
Grohmann 2009, among others). If the top projection of a raising infinitive
(typically assumed to be TP, but see Wurmbrand 2011 for reasons to assume
it is an aspectual projection) is a phase, movement of the subject always has
to proceed through the specifier of the top projection, AspP in (10). The exis-
tence of a copy of the subject in Spec,AspP then correctly accounts for the
fact that the anaphors in these examples always have to be bound by the subject
rather than the higher experiencer.6
(10) a. [John seems to Mary [AspP John to appear to himself
[vP John to be. . .]]]
b. *[Mary seems to John [AspP Mary to appear to himself
[vP Mary to be . . .]]]
Assuming the dynamic phase approach above, the obvious question now is
why control and ECM infinitives, as well as finite subjunctive complements,
are not phases—that is, why phasehood is suspended in these cases but not in
finite complements and raising infinitives. As stated in (1), we propose that
domain establishment is suspended just in case the lower head (in the cases at
hand, the top head of the embedded clause) depends on the head that combines
with it for its interpretation. To flesh this out, we must first return to a point
put aside above, namely the question of how phasehood is determined in a
dynamic phase model in general.
In contrast to Chomsky 2000, 2001, where certain designated projections—
only (strong) vP and CP (maybe also DP, PP)—are phases, we argue that it is
particular domains that determine phases, and that it is the highest projection
of these domains (again whatever their category or size) that normally consti-
tutes a phase. These potential cyclic domains (i.e., potential phases) are speci-
fied as follows (see Wurmbrand 2012 for evidence for this view from ellipsis,
among others):7
(11) a. Aspect domain: Theta-domain plus any event structure/Aktionsart-
dependent aspect (progressive, perfective, imperfective)
b. T+C-domain: Discourse domain, mood, tense, modal domain
Under this approach, no phrase is inherently a phase and the lack of a CP or
vP does not entail the lack of phase (i.e., unaccusative and passive VPs also
192 Chapter 11
qualify as phases, which is motivated by the binding and reconstruction prop-
erties discussed in Legate 2003 and Sauerland 2003). How then does a syn-
tactic object “know” whether it is a phase or not? We propose that phasehood
is determined strictly derivationally: when an XP merges with a head Y, XP
becomes a phase if Y is part of the next (potential) cyclic domain (e.g., if vP
merges with T, vP becomes a phase). As a result, XP is subject to Transfer at
this point. On the other hand, if XP merges with a head Y that is part of the
same (potential) cyclic domain as XP (e.g., if vP merges with a progressive
head), XP does not become a phase but its cyclic domain is extended to YP
(and potentially further) and Transfer does not occur yet.
With this system in place, we are now in a position to tackle domain suspen-
sion in control/ECM and subjunctive clauses. The crucial idea is that merging
a control, ECM, or subjunctive verb with its complement involves a particular
semantic dependency, specifically, a featural dependency spanning the domain
boundary, which suspends phasehood of the complement. Although the com-
plement constitutes a separate potential cyclic domain in the sense of (11), the
dependency in question blocks the establishment of an actual domain of cyclic
rule application—a syntactic phase—in these cases, with consequences for the
locality of movement.
To see what kind of dependency this is, a short detour to the tense properties
of infinitives is necessary. In addition to raising infinitives, which, we argue,
involve aspect but no tense, there are two types of infinitives in English that
differ regarding their tense properties: future irrealis infinitives and simultane-
ous propositional infinitives. In Wurmbrand 2011, it is shown that both types
of infinitives can be realized as control and ECM constructions, and it is pro-
posed that future irrealis infinitives involve an abstract future modal woll but
no tense. By contrast, simultaneous propositional infinitives involve a zero
tense, representing the attitude’s holder “now” (Kratzer 1998; Abusch 2004).
The major evidence comes from sequence of tense phenomena (Ogihara 1995,
1996, 2007; Abusch 1997; Enç 2004) and the distribution of eventive predi-
cates—that is, nonstative, nongeneric, episodic predicates (Pesetsky 1992;
Bošković 1996, 1997; Martin 1996, 2001). We briefly illustrate the latter
property. As shown in (12), future infinitives, like finite future contexts, allow
eventive predicates, whereas simultaneous propositional infinitives, like
present-tense contexts, prohibit eventive predicates (see Abusch 2004 and
Wurmbrand 2011 for several further examples).
(12) a. Leo decided/plans to bring the toys tomorrow. Control
b. The printer is expected to work again tomorrow. ECM
Suspension across Domains 193
c. Leo will leave tomorrow. Finite future
d. Yesterday, John claimed to *leave/✓be leaving (right then). Control
e. Yesterday, John believed Mary to *leave/✓be leaving (right then). ECM
f. Leo *sings/✓is singing right now. Present
Wurmbrand (2011) proposes that the distribution of eventive predicates is
an effect of aspect. Specifically, it is argued that present tense and zero
tense are only compatible with imperfective aspect, which, in English, cor-
responds to the -ing form. Perfective aspect (which is not realized morphologi-
cally in English), requires that the event time interval be included in the
reference time interval, which is not possible in present- and zero-tense con-
texts, since the reference time interval (the utterance time or the attitude
holder’s now) is too short. Future contexts, on the other hand, involve the
modal woll, which extends the reference time, and hence allows a perfective
interpretation—an interpretation where the event time interval is included in
the reference time interval. Assuming that propositional infinitives involve a
zero tense and future infinitives a future modal woll thus allows a unified
account of the distribution of eventive predicates based on the interaction of
tense and aspect.
The tense properties of control and ECM infinitives play a crucial role in
our account of domain suspension in these contexts (as well as subjunctive
complements) in English. Comparing the tense/mood/aspect properties of the
different types of embedded structures, one clear difference arises: in control/
ECM infinitives and subjunctive complements, the specific semantic value of
the highest head is selected by the matrix verb (as part of its lexical properties).
In finite clauses and raising infinitives, on the other hand, no such selectional
relation exists.
The examples in (13) illustrate the dependency between specific matrix
predicates and the temporal/mood composition of the complement: demand
(vs. say) selects subjunctive, decide selects a future infinitive, and claim (also
believe) selects a simultaneous infinitive. Finite complements of say, on the
other hand, show no tense restriction imposed by the higher verb, as in (14a).
Similarly, aspect in raising infinitives (which are semantically tenseless) is not
a property of the verb seem but a combination of the type of embedded predi-
cate (stative vs. nonstative) and the higher tense, as in (14b).
(13) a. I demand/*said that he listen to this.
b. Mary decided to leave tomorrow/to become/get/#to be pregnant.
(only if future state)
c. Mary claimed to {be/*become/*get} pregnant/*to leave tomorrow.
194 Chapter 11
(14) a. John said that he ate/is eating/will eat a cookie.
b. John seems to be sleeping/*to sleep right now/to sleep whenever
he’s tired.
More abstractly, we assume that the dependencies in (13) are dependencies
between an underspecified (or unvalued) feature of the potential phase head
and a lexical value of the verb the clause combines with, whereas there is no
feature dependency in (14). The schemas here illustrate the relevant portions
of the corresponding examples above:
(13′) a. demandSBJV [XP=potential phase XF: __ . . .]
b. decideFUT.IRR [XP=potential phase XF: __ . . .]
c. claimSIM [XP=potential phase XF: __ . . .]
(14′) a. say [XP=phase XF: val . . .]
b. seem [XP=phase XF: val . . .]
It is this feature-selection dependency, we argue, that suspends phasehood and
thus also spell-out.8
The feature values under consideration are all values that
need to be visible in semantics to properly interpret the structure. Thus, in
jargon, the features that show a value dependency in (13) are all interpretable
features. The intuition behind (1) is then that a (potential) cyclic domain that
is incomplete in a crucial semantic way (i.e., the topmost head is semantically
underspecified and only interpretable in conjunction with the selecting head)
cannot be transferred, and spell-out is suspended.
A specific technical implementation of value selection is given in Wurm-
brand (forthcoming). It is assumed there that verbs that impose a value-
selection restriction on their complements are lexically specified with an
uninterpretable valued feature encoding the specific value. For instance decide,
expect are specified for uF: woll, whereas claim, believe are specified for uF:
ØT, and subjunctive-taking verbs like demand are specified for uF: subjunctive.
The topmost head of the complement, on the other hand, is underspecified in
that it comes unvalued. Crucially, since those heads encode semantic informa-
tion (tense, mood, modality), these features are still interpretable features. If
an interpretable feature is sent to LF without a value, LF could not assign an
interpretation, and the structure would not be interpretable. Thus, the only way
the structure will converge is if the unvalued features are valued via Agree
before LF.
The features as specified above have the effect that a mutual dependency is
established between certain verbs and corresponding types of complements.
The unvalued features of the top clausal projection need to enter an Agree
relation with a higher verb that has an uF: val. Similarly, the uninterpretable
Suspension across Domains 195
feature of the selecting verb also becomes dependent on a specific comple-
ment, as desired. Following Pesetsky and Torrego 2007, uninterpretable fea-
tures (whether valued or unvalued) need to be licensed; specifically, they need
to be connected to a corresponding interpretable feature (cf. the proposal of
the Thesis of Radical Interpretability, Brody 1997).
The feature specification proposed allows us to address the question of why
complements that are value-selected are not phases. There are two ways to
implement this, and we will leave the choice between the two options open
here. First, it could be assumed that valuation suspends phasehood. Since the
unvalued features under consideration are interpretable features, these units
would be interpretationally incomplete (before valuation takes place), and
hence at the point where the clauses are completed, these units would not
qualify as objects that are usable by the semantics. Alternatively, it could be
assumed that the heads with the unvalued features undergo head movement,
which causes phase extension (see Den Dikken 2007) or phase sliding (see
Gallego 2005, 2010; Gallego and Uriagereka 2006), although note that these
latter proposals, unlike Domain Suspension as we have defined it, do not obvi-
ously extend to the morphological cases discussed in section 11.2.
11.4 Conclusions
In (13), the head X head is deficient, in the sense that it depends on the next
head up for its (temporal) interpretation. Empirically, this is manifested as a
type of selection relation—verbs like demand and decide require a particular
temporal interpretation of their (infinitival) complement, where verbs selecting
raising and finite complements do not. This dependency makes subjunctive,
control, and ECM complements special. One aspect of their special nature is
that they fail to constitute a phase (domain), and thus do not restrict movement
in the way phases do—they do not require an element moving across them to
land in their periphery. QR has the perfect properties to show this effect. Since
(long) QR is not driven by feature-checking needs, it is subject to Scope
Economy, and thus, effectively, cannot escape a phase. Long QR is thus only
possible where no phase intervenes, and serves as an excellent phase
detector.
In (5) and (7), the adjectival root is deficient, in the sense that it depends
on the next head up for its (phonological) interpretation. Empirically, this is
manifested as a selection relation—for suppletive adjectives, the comparative
requires a particular allomorph of the root, where for nonsuppletive adjectives,
no such selection relation obtains. This dependency (suppletion) makes roots
with comparative allomorphs special—one aspect of their special nature being
196 Chapter 11
that they fail to be “closed off” to further suppletion, and may thus have yet
more allomorphs governed by more peripheral heads. An adjective lacking a
suppletive comparative (such as big–bigger. . .) can only be continued in the
superlative by regular forms, while an adjective like good–better. . . could in
principle maintain the comparative root (best) or be yet further suppletive
(optimus; subject to the condition that further suppletion involves a portman-
teau). Both patterns (ABB, ABC) are indeed attested, with further suppletion
unsurprisingly the rarer of the two.
We have attempted, in this chapter, to express what we see as a tantalizing
similarity across two phenomena that are otherwise completely unrelated, and
we have proposed the principle in (1) to express this generalization. If we are
right and the generalization is not spurious, then the observations here con-
tribute to a characterization of a general property of language. Fundamentally,
this property is the cyclic nature of derivations: rules apply in inner constitu-
ents before they apply in outer ones, with certain internal properties of inner/
smaller constituents periodically “fixed” or “frozen” and thus inaccessible to
later derivational steps (e.g., Bracket Erasure in Chomsky and Halle 1968, the
PIC in Chomsky 2000, 2001, or the reformulated accessibility condition on
spelled-out domains). Our proposal, in line with the references cited above, is
that the formation of these impenetrable domains is suspended under certain
conditions, but more specifically, that the conditions under which Domain
Suspension applies themselves generalize across components, spanning the
domains of morphophonology and syntax-semantics.
Notes
For feedback on some of the ideas presented here, we are grateful to audience members
at ETI 1 (McGill), ZAS (Berlin), NELS 42 (Toronto), to seminar participants at UConn
and MIT, and to the editors and reviewers for this book.
1. To keep within the scope (and page limits) of this chapter, we do not consider other
domains here, including, for instance, interactions across phonological domains (as
raised by reviewers).
2. Sources for these examples are: Persian–Mace 2003; Cimbrian–Schweizer 2008;
Czech–Janda and Townsend 2000; Hungarian–Kiefer 2001; Latvian–University of
Latvia 1999; Ubykh–Dumézil 1931.
3. That cmpr is cyclic does not follow from any prior assumptions, although it may
be related to the assumption that category-changing morphology is cyclic (e.g., Embick
2010). Hints to that effect are provided by Russian comparatives, which are morpho-
logically in essence adverbs (i.e., invariant short neuter adjectives) and the neutraliza-
tion of the adjective/adverb distinction in English comparatives.
4. Note that (7a) is presented as a portmanteau (cumulative exponent), and thus rep-
resents Vocabulary Insertion at a node that dominates both the root and the comparative
Suspension across Domains 197
head/feature. This can be achieved via insertion at nonterminal nodes (see Caha 2009;
Radkevich 2010) or equivalently via the prior application of a rule of Fusion joining
two terminal nodes into a single locus of exponence (Halle and Marantz 1993; Chung
2007). Theoretically, treating opt- as a portmanteau allows Vocabulary Insertion to
target a node that is adjacent (both structurally and linearly) to sprl, a condition on
contextual allomorphy that is perhaps general (Embick 2010). Empirically, this explains
why the -iss- element of the superlative (a reflex of the comparative) is missing in
opt-imus (*opt-iss-imus), cf. beatus–beat-ior–beat-iss-imus = ‘happy-cmpr-sprl’. See
Bobaljik 2012.
5. As we discuss below, the claim about the phasehood of a particular type of clausal
complement is not about whether a structure involves raising, control, or ECM, but
rather about the temporal and mood properties of the complement and how the comple-
ment combines with the matrix verb. To the extent these (in)dependencies correlate
with properties such as raising, etc., we may use these familiar construction names to
designate classes of clausal complements. But see note 8 for further details and
qualifications.
6. Note that overt movement is subject to a general Last Resort condition that allows
movement only when necessary for feature licensing. Since the subject of a raising
infinitive requires Case licensing by the matrix T, movement is permitted under, for
instance, the Last Resort condition in Bošković 2007, 610: X undergoes movement iff
without the movement, the structure will crash (with crash evaluated locally). Similarly,
successive cyclic wh-movement is allowed since it involves a feature licensing relation
between an interrogative C and a wh-phrase.
7. Ora Matushansky (personal communication) suggests that the dynamic phasehood
view, in particular the effect that the complement of a lexical head is a phase whatever
its category/size, may be unified with the cycle-defining nature of category-changing
morphology (see note 3). We leave pursuit of this intriguing idea for future work.
8. As mentioned in note 5, the claim that English raising infinitives are phases does
not entail that raising constructions crosslinguistically are phases. Rather, phasehood
is dependent on the selectional properties between a verb and its complement. In
Wurmbrand, Alexiadou, and Anagnostopoulou 2012, we suggest, for instance, that
raising constructions in Greek, Romanian, and Spanish are value-selected subjunctives
or infinitives, and hence do not constitute phases, which, in contrast to English raising,
allows phase-bound operations to apply across them. Furthermore, modal construc-
tions, which can also involve raising (see Wurmbrand 1999; Bhatt 2000), show different
QR properties than seem constructions in English, since modals originate in the tense
domain and movement from the edge of the lower phase (Spec,vP) across a modal is
allowed by Scope Economy.
12
12.1 Introduction
Against the setting of this book, our aim is to contextualize the present chapter
within the background of developments in phonological and morphological
theory of the last forty-odd years, largely those arising from contributions by
Morris Halle and his collaborators. The notions of specificity-based competi-
tion and blocking, with their indubitable Pāninian pedigree, found their way
into modern generative linguistics with the introduction of the Elsewhere
Principle in Kiparsky 1973, the goal of which was an attempt to reduce extrin-
sic ordering in Chomsky and Halle 1968. The intuition behind such a principle
was that certain rules (or more broadly, operations that modify linguistic rep-
resentations) will always take precedence over others, given their forms and
the relationship of their forms to each other in terms of the fundamental notion
of the subset relation from Set Theory. Kiparsky’s contribution to phonological
theory allowed researchers—and by hypothesis, language acquirers—to
merely inspect the form of certain rules in order to determine their relative
ordering.1
A similar paradigm shift (perhaps a term to be taken literally in this context)
occurred within the view of Vocabulary Insertion as a procedural mapping
from morphosyntactic terminals to phonological sequences. In Noyer 1992,
vocabulary entries were rules with some extrinsic ordering among them, fol-
lowed in turn by appeals to purely intrinsic ordering in DM, especially Halle
and Marantz 1993, 1994, and Halle 1997a.2
The use of the Elsewhere Principle in DM is to regulate use of the else-
where item, the least specified vocabulary entry that still does not constitute
a superset or nonoverlapping set of the set of morphosyntactic features on
the terminal node to be expressed. Consider for example the paradigm of
third-singular pronouns in English. The masculine forms display a three-
way case contrast (nominative he, accusative him, genitive his), and the
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere
Principle
Karlos Arregi and Andrew Nevins
200 Chapter 12
feminine forms neutralize accusative and genitive forms (her), which are
distinct from the nominative form (she). Thus, her is arguably an else-
where feminine singular form, without any case specification. What pre-
vents it from being used in the nominative contexts, then? The Elsewhere
Principle, which dictates that the elsewhere form is only to be used when a
more specific form is not found. In the case at hand, nominative she is more
specific, blocking use of the elsewhere item her. The Elsewhere Principle is
also known as the Subset Principle, specifically because it is implemented in
terms of subset-based comparisons among sets of morphosyntactic feature-
value pairs.
The notion of specificity is normally used in reference to the inherent mor-
phosyntactic properties borne by the vocabulary entry itself. But at times,
vocabulary entries can be contextually restricted, meaning that they can only
be used in environments defined by adjacency or dominance in a local sense.
As an example of this, consider the allomorphy between destroy and destruct,
regulated by sisterhood to transitive v*. In the examples that follow with the
format E↔M/X____Y, E is the exponent (the vocabulary entry), M is the
morphosyntactic feature specification (MFS), and X____Y is the contextual
restriction. We assume that both /dǝstɹoj/ and /dǝstɹʌkt/ are allomorphs of an
abstract, categoryless root (in the sense of Arad 2003), denoted here as
:
(1) Allomorphs of the root destroy/destruct, differing only in contextual
restriction
a. /dǝstɹoj/ ↔ DESTRXYZ v*____
b /dǝstɹʌkt/ ↔
The second item, /dǝstɹʌkt/, is an elsewhere item—less specific with respect
to context. As such, it occurs in all environments besides those with immediate
sisterhood to v*, including adjectives (destructive, destructible) nouns (destruc-
tion), and root compounds in which the root blocks sisterhood with
v* in self-destruct.3
The allomorph /dǝstɹoj/ is only used in a limited/special-
ized environment.4
In the two examples we have examined thus far, one involved competition
in terms of specificity of morphosyntactic features (she vs. her) while the other
involves specificity in terms of context (destroy vs. destruct). As such there is
no potential need to arbitrate between vocabulary entries in which one might
be more specific for MFS while the other for context. But in fact precisely
such a formulation already exists in the DM literature, one in which specificity
in MFS takes precedence over specificity in context (Halle and Marantz 1993,
120–124):
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 201
(2) a Underspecification: The exponent in a vocabulary entry is eligible for
insertion into a terminal node if the entry’s MFS is a subset of the
features in the terminal node, and if the contextual restriction of the
former is compatible with the context of the latter.
b. Elsewhere Principle: Where several entries meet Underspecification,
the one matching the greatest number of features in the terminal node
must be chosen.
c. Contextual Specificity: Where several entries meet (2b), the one with
the most specific contextual restriction must be chosen.
In other words, exponents whose MFS and/or context form a superset of the
terminal node to be realized are immediately discarded (2a). Subsequently, the
entry with the maximally matching MFS is chosen (2b), and only in the case
of a tie is context appealed to (2c).
Interestingly, Halle and Marantz do not provide evidence for this prioritiza-
tion. In fact, the phenomena discussed in the DM literature (including those
in Halle and Marantz 1993) are typically consistent with this or the opposite
preference of (2c) over (2b). In this chapter, we wish to reverse the importance
(and indeed, computational priority) given to (2c) as opposed to (2b) above,
thus placing Contextual Specificity before morphosyntactic specification,
based on empirical arguments from Basque and Bulgarian, in which a mor-
phosyntactic feature distinction ordinarily made—and indeed, one supported
by ample vocabulary entries—is nonetheless jettisoned and neutralized in a
particular environment.
The prediction of the “standard” prioritization, as schematized above, is that
given Vocabulary Insertion alone (i.e., without the interference of impoverish-
ment or other feature-modifying operations) defaults will never override spe-
cific entries, even if the default has a richer contextual restriction. The goal of
this chapter is to provide evidence that Contextual Specificity takes precedence
over the Elsewhere Principle, based on cases in which a featurally underspeci-
fied but contextually rich entry overrides more specific entries with a poorer
contextual restriction. We provide two case studies as evidence: Basque pro-
nominal clitics (section 12.2), and Bulgarian definite articles (sections 12.3
and 12.4). Before we turn to these case studies, we outline certain assumptions
about the architecture of the grammar that will provide an important guide to
our analysis of Basque and Bulgarian.
Within DM, it is generally agreed that impoverishment is early and linear-
ization is late. The overall architecture of the postsyntactic morphological
component in Arregi and Nevins 2012, which we adopt here, is depicted in
figure 12.1. The main points that run through our architecture that are
202 Chapter 12
important for this chapter are the hypothesis that impoverishment is, as often
as possible, principled, while vocabulary entries—later down in the chain—are
more idiosyncratic and language particular. For this reason, highly specific
contextual effects on allomorph selection are likely to be the provenance of
Vocabulary Insertion, and thus more likely to change, cross-dialectally, than
impoverishment-based ones. In addition, operations that apply before linear-
ization, such as impoverishment and lowering, are defined in terms of hierar-
chical relations, while postlinearization processes such as metathesis (section
12.2) are sensitive to linear order.
12.2 Contextual Neutralization in Basque Pronominal Clitics
In Biscayan Basque, pronominal enclitics exhibit case contrasts that are neu-
tralized in proclitic position. This, we argue, is a case of contextual neutraliza-
tion in the sense defined above: case-neutral vocabulary entries specific to
proclitic contexts override case-specific entries. This provides the first piece
of evidence that Contextual Specificity takes precedence over the Elsewhere
Principle in determining competition at Vocabulary Insertion. For reasons of
space, we omit many of the details of the analysis, and the reader is referred
to Arregi and Nevins 2012 for extensive argumentation and comparison with
alternative accounts, as well as further illustration of the phenomena discussed
here.
Since most verbs in this language lack finite forms, finite clauses are typi-
cally headed by an auxiliary that cross-references phi-features of absolutive,
dative, and ergative arguments in the clause. The following example from the
Biscayan variety of Ondarru is illustrative:5
(3) Neu-k seu-/
0 ikus-i s -atxu -t.
I.erg you(sg).abs see.pfv cl.abs.2sg -prs.2sg -cl.erg.1sg
‘I’ve seen you(sg).’ Ondarru
In this auxiliary, the root -atxu- encodes present tense, in addition to agreement
(second singular) with the absolutive argument. Following Arregi and Nevins
Figure 12.1
The structure of Spellout, as proposed by Arregi and Nevins 2012
SYNTAX
Cliticization
Agree
POSTSYNTAX
Hierarchical Operations
Impoverishment
Lowering
Linearization
Linear Operations
Metathesis
Doubling
VI
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 203
2012, we take this exponent to be the realization of T. Pronominal clitics are
illustrated by the second singular absolutive proclitic s- and the first singular
ergative enclitic -t. The following descriptive template displays the relative
position of the different morphemes in the auxiliary:
(4) Morphemes in the Basque auxiliary6
abs proclitic – T (root) – dat enclitic – erg enclitic – complementizer
We assume that this is little more than a descriptive template of surface aux-
iliary form, derivable in a principled way from the syntax of the morphemes
involved. Since these details are not directly relevant to the issues of interest
here, we abstract away from them in this chapter.
As shown in (4), absolutive clitics precede the root, while dative and ergative
clitics follow it (with important exceptions discussed below). The following
examples from Ondarru provide further illustration of first singular pronominal
clitics in all three cases:
(5) Dative enclitic
Neu-ri emo-n d -o -sta -/
0 (>emo-sta).
me-dat give-pfv cl.ep -prs.3sg -cl.dat.1sg -cl.erg.3sg
‘She’s given it to me.’ Ondarru
(6) Ergative enclitic
Neu-k emo-n d -o -tza -t (>emo-tzat).
I-erg give-pfv cl.ep -pr.3sg -cl.dat.3sg -cl.erg.1sg
‘I’ve given it to him.’ Ondarru
(7) Absolutive proclitic
Neu-/
0 etorr-i n -as.
I-abs come-pfv cl.abs.1sg -prs.1sg
‘I’ve come.’ Ondarru
These examples illustrate the fact that enclitics display case contrasts: the
first singular dative enclitic is -sta (5), while its ergative counterpart is -t (6).
Table 12.1 provides a full paradigm of the surface form of pronominal clitics
in the Biscayan dialectal area (this figure abstracts away from allomorphy
and dialectal variation not directly relevant here).7
As shown in this paradigm,
enclitics in all phi-feature combinations contrast in case. Despite significant
variation in surface form, these case contrasts are present throughout the
Biscayan dialect (de Yrizar 1992). Absolutive proclitics are illustrated in (7);
204 Chapter 12
their exponents are given a case-neutral label in table 12.1, since, as argued
below, proclitics of the same form can also double ergative and dative
arguments.
Contextual neutralization of case can be observed in certain forms where
the proclitic doubles an ergative or dative argument (instead of the expected
absolutive). This is due to the application of different processes that displace
or copy an enclitic into auxiliary-initial position:
(8) Ergative Metathesis: Ergative in proclitic position
Neu-k emo-n n -e -tza -n (>emo-netzan).
I-erg give-pfv cl.erg.1sg -pst.3sg -cl.dat.3sg -cpst
‘I gave it to her.’ Ondarru
(9) Ergative Doubling: Ergative in enclitic and proclitic position
s -eu -sku -su -n
cl.erg.2sg -pst.3sg -cl.dat.1pl -cl.erg.2sg -cpst
Alboniga (de Yrizar 1992, vol. 1, 470)
(10) Dative Doubling: Dative in enclitic and proclitic position
Ar-ek ne-ri sagarr-a emu-n
he-erg me-dat apple-abs.sg give-pfv
n -o -sta -/
0 -n.
cl.dat.1sg -pst.3sg -cl.dat.1sg -cl.erg.3sg -cpst
‘He gave me the apple.’ Oñati (Rezac 2008a, 710)
In addition to causing a change in position, these processes also have an effect
on the form of the clitic. All proclitics in these examples, regardless of case,
are realized as shown in the case-neutral proclitic paradigm in table 12.1. This
is perhaps most clearly seen in the doubling examples (9) and (10), where
the enclitic copy has the expected case-specific form (see table 12.1), but
the auxiliary-initial copy has the case-neutral proclitic form. Thus, the
Basque clitic paradigm displays contextual neutralization: the case contrasts
Table 12.1
Pronominal clitic forms in Biscayan Basque
Proclitics Dative enclitics Ergative enclitics
Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural
First n- g- -sta -sku -t -gu
Second s- s-. . .-e -tzu -tzue -su -sue
Third — — -tza -tze -Ø -e
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 205
visible in enclitic position in (5)–(6) are neutralized in proclitic position in
(8)–(10).
Note, furthermore, that these are bona fide ergative and dative proclitics,
not analyzable in terms of absolutive case assignment to an external or
Goal argument, as evinced by the fact that the strong pronouns cross-refer-
enced by the proclitics in (8) and (10) have ergative and dative case, respec-
tively. In addition, in the doubling cases in (9) and (10), the auxiliaries
themselves contain another clitic exponent with unmistakably ergative or
dative form cross-referencing the same argument. Another indication that the
proclitic in these examples is not absolutive is that, if that were the case, we
would expect it to trigger agreement in T, but, as shown by the glosses, the
form of T in these auxiliaries is specific to third-person agreement, not first- or
second-person.8
Ergative Metathesis, also known as ergative displacement in the literature
(Heath 1976; Bonet 1991; Laka 1993; Albizu and Eguren 2000; Fernández
and Albizu 2000; Rezac 2003), occurs in all dialects of Basque, and is limited
to contexts where tense is nonpast and the absolutive argument is either third
singular or altogether absent. Following Laka 1993, we propose in Arregi and
Nevins 2012 a postsyntactic displacement analysis in which the ergative cliti-
cizes to enclitic position in the syntax, but is displaced to auxiliary-initial
position prior to Vocabulary Insertion. This postsyntactic displacement is trig-
gered by Noninitiality, a constraint on the linearization of T that prevents it
from surfacing in initial position in the auxiliary. In auxiliaries with absolutive
clitics (e.g., (7)), the latter are linearized to the left of T, and therefore no
postsyntactic repair operation is needed to satisfy Noninitiality. In the absence
of an absolutive clitic, certain repair operations apply to shield T from the left
edge. Ergative Metathesis, which applies under the conditions specified above,
is one of those operations: by displacing the ergative clitic to the left of T, the
structure satisfies Noninitiality. In other contexts (e.g., in the present tense, or
in the absence of an ergative clitic), an epenthetic morpheme is inserted to
satisfy the constraint. This epenthetic morpheme is exemplified in (5)–(6)
(glossed as “cl.ep”).
In Arregi and Nevins 2012, chap. 5, we implement this displacement opera-
tion in terms of Harris and Halle’s (2005) Generalized Reduplication formal-
ism. This implementation allows us to extend the analysis to Ergative and
Dative Doubling. These processes, which have a more restricted dialectal
distribution (Fernández 2001; Fernández and Ezeizabarrena 2003; Rezac
2008a, 2008b),9
apply instead of Ergative Metathesis in a subset of the contexts
where the latter is expected to apply, and are similarly triggered by the need
to shield T from the left edge of the auxiliary.
206 Chapter 12
The generalizations about the form of (Biscayan) Basque pronominal clitics
uncovered above can be implemented in terms of vocabulary entries for pro-
clitics that are case neutral (hence resulting in contextual neutralization of
case) competing with entries that are specific for dative and ergative case. In
other words, there are no clitics specified as absolutive in Basque. In the case
of first-person singular, the following entries have these properties (entries for
other phi-features are similar):10
(11) Vocabulary entries for first singular clitics in Biscayan Basque
a. /n/ ↔ [first, singular]/_____T
b. /t/ ↔ [first, singular, ergative]
c. /sta/ ↔ [first, singular, dative]
The entry for n- in (11a) is specific to proclitic position (before T), and is therefore
not relevant in the realization of clitics following T.11
Thus, enclitics are realized
as ergative -t (11b) or dative -sta (11c)—that is, the realization of enclitics results
in the observed case contrast in this position. In proclitic position, on the other
hand, both the case-neutral proclitic entry (11a) and one of the two case-specific
entries are candidates for insertion (as long as the proclitic is ergative (11b) or
dative (11c); if absolutive, only (11a) is eligible). Given our hypothesis that Con-
textual Specificity takes precedence over the Elsewhere Principle, the correct
prediction is that case-neutral (11a) is inserted, since, despite the fact that its MFS
is a subset of the MFS of the case-specific entries, its contextual restriction (before
T) is richer than the null contextual restriction in the other entries.12
Before we turn to further evidence from Bulgarian, we need to rule out other
possible analyses of contextual neutralization in Basque pronominal clitics.
Relying on certain phonological similarities between dative and ergative
enclitics evident in table 12.1, one might argue that they are derived by pho-
nological processes from common case-neutral underlying enclitic forms.
Under this analysis, the paradigm would not display contextual neutralization,
since no case contrasts would be posited in enclitic position in the first place.
Although these phonological similarities provide evidence for a common dia-
chronic analysis of the form of dative and ergative enclitics, we argue in Arregi
and Nevins 2012, 127–132, that they do not justify such an analysis in the
synchronic grammar of Biscayan Basque. These similarities are greater in
other dialects—for instance, first- and second-person enclitics have case-
neutral forms in the standard dialect (Batua; see Hualde 2003), and in several
spoken varieties of other dialects. On the other hand, enclitics in many other
varieties do have case-based contrasts not attributable to synchronic phonol-
ogy. For instance, in Souletin, the first plural ergative enclitic is -gü, while its
dative counterpart is -kü (deYrizar 2002), but their phonological contexts (e.g.,
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 207
dü-gu, zai-kü) do not warrant an analysis in terms of (de)voicing. A similar
argument for contextual neutralization can also be made based on these latter
dialects, but we concentrate on Biscayan here because these enclitic case
contrasts are clearer in this dialect.
A different type of alternative analysis would, like ours, account for the facts
in terms of contextual neutralization, but would rely on independently motivated
mechanisms instead of a change in the way that Vocabulary Insertion determines
competition. First, one could add some restriction to the case-specific entries that
excludes them from auxiliary-initial position. Since the case-specific exponents in
(11b) and (11c) only appear in enclitic position, it is tempting to add the contextual
restriction T____ to them, thus making them ineligible for insertion in proclitic
position. This would make competition for the realization of proclitics a nonissue
and the proposed change to Vocabulary Insertion unnecessary. Unfortunately,
given certain well-founded assumptions in current work on Distributed Morphol-
ogy, this alternative analysis does not make the correct predictions. Under the
hypothesis that a contextual restriction can only make reference to features on
adjacent terminal nodes (Embick 2010), it would wrongly predict that both case-
specific entries in (11) are restricted to clitics that are right-adjacent to T.Although
ergative clitics can be right-adjacent to T (in the absence of a dative clitic), they
need not be, as shown in (6), where the ergative clitic follows a dative clitic.
However, the form of the ergative clitic is identical in both cases and clearly not
dependent on how close it is linearly to T.
A second alternative analysis along similar lines involves impoverishment.
This type of rule, which either deletes a feature or changes it to an unmarked
value, is often used in the DM literature in order to account for contextual
neutralization facts. For instance, several authors propose an impoverishment-
based analysis of spurious se in Spanish (Bonet 1991, 153–173; Halle and
Marantz 1994; Nevins 2007, 274–283). In this language, the dative clitic is le
(les in the plural), except in the context of an accusative clitic, in which case
it is realized as se, which is syncretic with the reflexive/impersonal pronoun.
Thus, a contrast between dative and reflexive clitics is neutralized in the
context of accusative clitics. Under the assumption that the se exponent lacks
some feature that dative le is specified for (person in Bonet 1991 and Nevins
2007; case in Halle and Marantz 1993), we can account for this case of con-
textual neutralization by impoverishing that feature in a dative clitic if it occurs
in the same cluster as an accusative clitic.
This would suggest an alternative account of the contextual neutralization
facts in Basque pronominal clitics in which an impoverishment rule deletes case
features (or changes them to unmarked absolutive) in proclitic position. Since
ergative and dative clitics surface in proclitic position due to the application of
208 Chapter 12
Ergative Metathesis/Doubling and Dative Doubling, this impoverishment rule
would have to apply after these operations affect the position of these clitics.
Given the restrictive and modular architecture of the postsyntactic component
proposed in Arregi and Nevins 2012 and briefly reviewed in section 12.1, this
is not a viable option for the Basque facts. In particular, impoverishment rules,
which are typically not sensitive to morpheme order, apply before linearization,
and rules that alter the linear order of morphemes, such as the metathesis and
doubling rules discussed above, apply after linearization. This predicts that
impoverishment rules systematically apply prior to metathesis and doubling
processes, and therefore have the potential to feed or bleed them, a prediction
that we provide evidence for in Arregi and Nevins 2012, chap. 6.
To summarize so far, contextual neutralization facts in Basque pronominal
clitics provide evidence for our hypothesis that Contextual Specificity takes
precedence over the Elsewhere Principle at Vocabulary Insertion. In the fol-
lowing section, we present additional evidence from the realization of the
definite article in Bulgarian.
12.3 Contextual Neutralization in Bulgarian Definite Articles
The Bulgarian definite article paradigm displays phi-feature-based contrasts
that are neutralized in certain phonologically defined environments. As with
Basque pronominal clitics, we propose an analysis in which this case of con-
textual neutralization is the result of underspecified vocabulary entries with
(phonological) contextual restrictions overriding entries that are phi-feature
specific but lack a contextual restriction.
In Bulgarian, the definite article surfaces as an enclitic attaching to either
the head noun or the first noun modifier in the DP, whichever comes first. The
following are relevant examples from Embick and Noyer 2001, 568–569:13
(12) a. kniga-ta
book.fem.sg-def
‘the book’
b. xubava-ta kniga
nice-def book.fem.sg
‘the nice book’
c. mnogo starij-a teatǝr
very old-def theater.masc.sg
‘the very old theater’
A lot of the literature on the Bulgarian definite article concentrates on account-
ing for its position within the structure of DP (see, among others, Franks 2001;
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 209
Embick and Noyer 2001; Dost and Gribanova 2006).14
We adopt Embick and
Noyer’s (2001) analysis, according to which the article is generated in the
syntax as the head of DP, and its surface position is due to postsyntactic
lowering:
(13) Structure of (12a–b) after lowering
DP
NP
N
N
kniga
D
ta
DP
NP
AP
A
A
xubava
D
ta
NP
N
kniga
As illustrated in these examples, lowering, like head movement, results in
X0
-adjunction. In terms of the architecture of the grammar in figure 12.1,
lowering is a hierarchically defined postsyntactic operation that applies before
linearization and is thus distinct from other morpheme-displacement opera-
tions such as syntactic head movement and postlinearization metathesis.15
The form of the article, which is the main topic of this section, is in part
dependent on the gender and number features of the word it attaches to. For
instance, the adjective starij- in (12c) is masculine singular, due to agreement
with the noun teatǝr, and, accordingly, the form of the definite article -a
attached to the adjective is specific to masculine singular hosts. We assume
that the source of this sensitivity to (masculine/feminine/neuter) gender and
(singular/plural) number features in the article are due to DP-internal agree-
ment—that is, at the point of Vocabulary Insertion, the article (in addition to
its host) is specified for valued phi-features. We provide an analysis of DP-
internal agreement in Bulgarian in section 12.4.
Both morphosyntactic and phonological factors determine the form of the
definite article. The following are the relevant generalizations (Harizanov and
Gribanova 2011):16
(14) The realization of the definite article in Bulgarian
a. If the host ends in the vowel a or o, then the definite article is
realized as -ta or -to, respectively; otherwise,
b. if the definite article is singular masculine, then it is realized as -a,
c. if the definite article is singular feminine, then it is realized as -tá,
d. if the definite article is singular neuter, then it is realized as -to, and
e. if the definite article is plural, then it is realized as -te.
210 Chapter 12
While (14b–e) make reference to the phi-features of the article, (14a) makes
reference to the phonological features of its context. As stated clearly in (14),
the latter takes precedence over the former, hence this is a case of contextual
neutralization: phi-featural distinctions in the article that are otherwise visible
in the paradigm are neutralized in the specific context of a host that ends in
the vowel a or o.
The following examples illustrate the generalizations above.17
First, mascu-
line singular nouns that end in a consonant take the -a allomorph of the article:
(15) Masculine singular nouns ending in C: -a
mǝʒ-a ‘the man’ stol-a ‘the chair’
Masculine singular nouns can also end in the vowels a and o, in which case
they take the -ta and -to allomorphs of the article, respectively:
(16) Masculine singular nouns ending in a: -ta
baʃta-ta ‘the father’ sǝdija-ta ‘the judge’
(17) Masculine singular nouns ending in o: -to
tatko-to ‘the father’ djado-to ‘the grandfather’
Feminine singular nouns typically end in the vowel a and accordingly take the
-ta allomorph of the definite article:
(18) Feminine singular nouns ending in a: -ta
ʒena-ta ‘the woman’ staja-ta ‘the room’
However, a few feminine singular nouns end in a consonant. These take a
different allomorph of the article, -tá, specific to feminine singular and distin-
guishable from -ta in that it attracts stress:
(19) Feminine singular nouns ending in a consonant: -tá
mladost-tá ‘the youth’ doblest-tá ‘the valor’ cev-tá ‘the barrel’
Neuter singular nouns always end in a vowel, and regardless of the features
of this vowel, the article is realized as -to:
(20) Neuter singular nouns: -to
selo-to ‘the village’ dete-to ‘the child’
menju-to ‘the menu’ taksi-to ‘the taxi’
Bulgarian plural nouns are formed on the basis of several allomorphs of a
nominal plural suffix.18
Nouns with the plural suffixes ending in a take the -ta
allomorph of the definite article, as expected:
(21) Plural nouns ending in a: -ta
brat-ja-ta ‘the brothers’ krai-ʃta-ta ‘the ends’
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 211
With plural suffixes that end in a vowel other than a, the allomorph of the
definite article is -te:
(22) Plural nouns ending in a vowel other than a: -te
narod-i-te ‘the peoples’ mǝʒ-e-te ‘the men’
These generalizations are succinctly summarized in table 12.2, which
clearly represents the fact that the paradigm exhibits contextual neutralization.
The bottom row exemplifies the four-way gender/number contrast that the
form of the definite article is sensitive to. The other rows show that these phi-
featural contrasts are neutralized in the context of hosts ending in the vowels
a or o.
Contextual neutralization in Bulgarian definite articles can thus be accounted
for in a way parallel to Basque pronominal clitics. First, we propose the fol-
lowing vocabulary entries (adapted from Harizanov and Gribanova 2011):19
(23) Vocabulary Entries for Bulgarian definite articles
a. /ta/ ↔ [definite] / [/-a/] ____
b. /to/ ↔ [definite] / [/-o/] ____
c. /a/ ↔ [definite, singular, masculine]
d. /tá/ ↔ [definite, singular, feminine]
e. /to/ ↔ [definite, singular, neuter]
f. /te/ ↔ [definite, plural]
With hosts other than those ending in a or o, only the phi-specific exponents
in (23c–f) are eligible for insertion. As a consequence, in these contexts, the
phi-featural contrasts are visible. Compare, for instance, masculine singular
mǝʒ-a (15) and feminine singular mladost-tá (19):
(24) [ N [d definite, singular, masculine]] [ N [d definite, singular, feminine]]
mǝʒ -a mladost -tá
On the other hand, in the context of a host ending in a or o, these phi-specific
entries compete with the phi-featurally underspecified but contextually rich
entries for -ta (23a) and -to (23b). Given that Contextual Specificity takes
Table 12.2
Contextual neutralization in Bulgarian definite articles
Masculine Feminine Neuter Plural
Host ends in a baʃta-ta ʒena-ta brat-ja-ta
Host ends in o tatko-to selo-to
Other hosts mǝʒ-a mladost-tá dete-to narod-i-te
212 Chapter 12
precedence over the Elsewhere Principle, the latter entries are chosen for
insertion, as illustrated here with masculine singular baʃta-ta (16) and femi-
nine singular ʒena-ta (18):
(25) [ N [d definite, singular, masculine]] [ N [d definite, singular, feminine]]
baʃta -ta ʒena -ta
The result is contextual neutralization: the phi-featural contrasts illustrated in
(24) are neutralized in the context exemplified in (25).
The Bulgarian allomorphy data are representative of a larger class of phenom-
ena in which phonologically sensitive considerations seem to trump morphosyn-
tactic specificity. In this light, they are reminiscent of definite article allomorphy
in well-known cases such as Spanish and French, in which vowel-initial nouns
may take articles of the “wrong” gender. To take the simplest case among these,
nouns beginning with stressed á in Spanish have the gender of their definite
article neutralized to the form usually reserved for masculines, namely el. This
constitutes a case of contextual neutralization in which the masculine/feminine
distinction in the definite article, otherwise robust and based purely on morpho-
syntactic features, is jettisoned in favor of a context-sensitive form that looks at
the phonology of the stem (see Nevins 2011c for an overview).
In this light it is interesting to compare our proposed revision of the Elsewhere
Principle of Vocabulary Insertion to the novel two-step approach to Vocabulary
Insertion proposed in Svenonius 2012b, on the basis of definite article in French,
which is also phonologically sensitive. Svenonius’s proposal shares with ours
the fact that the first step of Vocabulary Insertion is purely to eliminate superset
candidates of vocabulary entries whose specification includes features not in the
terminal node being matched. It also shares with ours the hypothesis that pho-
nological factors may be referred to—and decisive in allomorph selection—
before maximal subset considerations are taken into account. One of the
differences, however, is that Svenonius’s proposal attempts to cleanly partition
the two steps ofVocabulary Insertion into superset elimination (called ‘L-Match’)
and a phonologically optimizing stage. It is on this latter point that we diverge
from Svenonius, pointing specifically to the Bulgarian case at hand. Consider
the feminine allomorphs, either stressed -tá or unstressed -ta, the latter chosen
when the stem ends with the vowel a. It is not clear what types of phonotactic
or metrical pressures would force the preference for -ta over -tá following an a.
Coupled with the fact that the Basque case discussed above does not involve
phonological sensitivity, we contend that the correct characterization of Vocabu-
lary Insertion is indeed one in which context sensitivity trumps morphosyntactic
specification, but where context sensitivity need not be limited to purely phono-
logically optimizing considerations. Nonetheless, we contend that Svenonius’s
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 213
division of labor of Vocabulary Insertion into two separate stages, in which a
principle of Phonology-Free Syntax is upheld in the sense that vocabulary entries
themselves never directly mention phonological context, rather leaving such
choices up to the grammar, as it were, constitutes an interesting move in the
direction of modularization in the general spirit of DM and is worthy of extensive
further comparison with the proposal we have developed here.
12.4 The Syntax and Postsyntax of Agreement in Bulgarian Definite Articles
A crucial assumption in the analysis of Bulgarian given above is that the defi-
nite article is specified for phi-features as a consequence of DP-internal agree-
ment. This assumption is challenged by Harizanov and Gribanova (2012), who
claim that the phi-featural factors that (partially) determine the form of the
definite article are not due to features in the article itself, but to features in its
host. For instance, under this analysis, the masculine singular mǝʒ in (24)
selects the masculine singular allomorph -a of the definite article not because
the article itself is specified for these features, but because the host mǝʒ is.
Thus, in Harizanov and Gribanova 2012, the phi-features in the entries for
(23c)–(23f) are not part of the MFS, but part of the contextual restriction.
Under this view, the Bulgarian definite article paradigm does not constitute a
case of contextual neutralization, since all the allomorphs have identical MFS
([definite]) and only differ in their contextual restriction.
Harizanov and Gribanova’s (2012) argument is based on DPs with coordi-
nated adjectives:
(26) bălgarskij-a i ruski narod-i
Bulgarian.masc.sg-def and Russian.masc.sg nation.masc-pl
‘the Bulgarian and Russian nations’
(= the Bulgarian nation and the Russian nation) (Harizanov and
Gribanova 2012, 9)
What is interesting about this type of example is that the coordinated singular
adjectives do not agree in number with the plural noun. Since, as indicated by
the meaning, the syntactic scope of the definite article is the entire DP, we
might expect the definite article to agree with the plural noun. This is not the
case: the article in this example, which is attached to the adjective in the first
conjunct (i.e., the first noun modifier in the DP), is realized by the singular
masculine allomorph -a, not plural -te. One might be tempted to conclude that
this is due to some sort of closest conjunct agreement with the leftmost adjec-
tive. This does not seem to be the case, since an adjective with a similar
syntactic scope as the article in (26) does agree with the noun:
214 Chapter 12
(27) prijatelsk-i-te bălgarski i ruski narod-i
friendly-pl-def Bulgarian.masc.sg and Russian.masc.sg nation.masc-pl
‘the friendly Bulgarian and Russian nations’ (Harizanov and
Gribanova 2012, 10)
Taking (27) as representative of the agreement properties of items that have
scope over the entire DP, Harizanov and Gribanova (2012) conclude that the
singular allomorph -a of the article in (26) cannot be due to agreement (i.e.,
the article is not specified for phi-features); rather, it is due to contextual
allomorphy conditioned by the singular adjective it is attached to.
We do not think that this conclusion is warranted, since it rests on the
assumption that the agreement properties of agreeing items must be com-
pletely determined by their syntactic position and that therefore postsyntactic
processes cannot have an effect on agreement. Recent literature on the topic
suggests that this is not the case, and that postsyntactic properties of structures
do indeed have an effect on agreement. Specifically, both Arregi and Nevins
(2012, 81–88) and Bhatt and Walkow (forthcoming) argue (on quite different
grounds) that agreement proceeds in two steps: agreement is established in the
syntax, but implemented in the postsyntactic component, with the potential to
be affected by information only available at this point in the derivation. We
propose that the agreement asymmetry observed in (26) and (27) is due to this
two-step procedure. The main motivation in the works cited above for splitting
agreement into a syntactic step and a postsyntactic one is to account for phe-
nomena that bear the structural signature of syntactic Agree, yet actual feature
valuation is affected by postsyntactic operations (impoverishment in Arregi
and Nevins 2012, and linearization in Bhatt and Walkow, forthcoming). This
is, we claim, what accounts for the differing behavior of the article in (26) and
the first adjective in (27): although they are in parallel structural configurations
relevant for agreement in the syntax, the article, but not the adjective, is subject
to postsyntactic displacement that alters this configuration and thus has an
effect in the postsyntactic implementation of agreement. In particular, attach-
ment of the article to the adjective in the first conjunct in (26) alters the locality
relations with its potential agreement controllers in such a way that its feature
values are copied from its (postsyntactic) sister adjective instead of the noun.
Before we spell out the details of our analysis, we need to make explicit our
assumptions about the syntax of coordination, which is in part responsible for
the mismatch in number between the coordinated singular adjectives and the
plural head noun observed in (26)–(27). First, we assume an asymmetric analysis
of coordination where a coordinating particle heads a phrase that we label “&P”;
the coordinated elements fill the specifier and complement positions of this head
(Munn 1992, Johannessen 1993, and much subsequent work). The conjoined
adjectives in (26)–(27) thus have the following structure in the syntax:
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 215
(28) &P
AP
A
˘
balgarski
& AP
A
ruski
This entire phrase occupies the same position as AP modifiers—that is, it is
adjoined to NP (see below for detailed structures). Second, &P undergoes DP-
internal agreement with the head noun, in the manner specified below for DP-
internal modifiers. Thus, &P in (26)–(27) is specified as masculine plural. On
the other hand, the phi-feature values of each conjoined adjective are determined
by agreement resolution within coordination (Corbett 1983), which in these
examples results in masculine singular.20
This accounts for the number mismatch
mentioned above. Finally, lowering, as a postsyntactic operation, is not subject
to Ross’s (1967) Coordinate Structure Constraint, which accounts for the attach-
ment of the article onto the first conjoined adjective in (26).
Our specific implementation of the two-step procedure for agreement is as
follows.21
An agreement controller is a probe (in the sense of Chomsky 2000)
with unvalued phi-features. A probe establishes an Agree-Link relation with
suitable goals (elements with matching features that might be valued or not).
Crucially, Agree-Link is an abstract relation between two nodes, and does not
effect feature valuation (this is accomplished by postsyntactic Agree-Copy, as
discussed below). In DP-internal agreement, a probe establishes Agree-Link
with all phi-feature-bearing elements in its c-command domain (this is Mul-
tiple Agree, in Hiraiwa’s (2001) sense; see also van Koppen 2005 for Multiple
Agree in coordinate structures). In the Bulgarian examples above, the article
in (26) and first adjective in (27) establish the following Agree-Link relations
(denoted by arrows):22
(29) Agree-Link relations in (26) and (27)
DP
D NP[pl]
&P[pl]
AP[sing]
& AP[sing]
NP[pl]
DP
D NP[pl]
AP NP[pl]
&P[pl]
AP[sing]
& AP[sing]
NP[pl]
216 Chapter 12
In both examples, the probe is agree-linked with plural goals (NP and &P) as
well as singular goals (the AP conjuncts). Feature valuation is accomplished
by Agree-Copy in the postsyntactic component, which copies feature values
from the goal to the c-commanding probe. In cases with more than one goal
agree-linked to a probe, features from the closest goal are copied, where
closest is defined by standard locality conditions stated in terms of c-command
and dominance (Fitzpatrick 2002 and references cited there): given a node x
that c-commands nodes y and z, y is closer to x than z iff y c-commands or
dominates z. In (27) (see rightmost tree in (29)), the closest goal to the topmost
AP probe is its sister NP, which results in plural agreement. In effect, this
analysis imposes standard locality conditions on Agree in the postsyntactic
component, rather than the syntax: the probe is agree-linked with several goals
in the syntax, and the most local one is selected postsyntactically by
Agree-Copy.
This separation of agreement into syntactic Agree-Link and postsyntactic
Agree-Copy correctly predicts singular agreement on the article attached to
the first conjunct in (26). As shown in (29), the D probe in (26) is agree-linked
with the same goals as the topmost adjective in (27). However, in the postsyn-
tactic component, lowering alters the structure by attaching D to the leftmost
conjunct.
(30) Structure of (26) after lowering
DP
NP[pl]
&P[pl]
AP
AP[sing] D
& AP[sing]
NP[pl]
This in effect undoes the Agree-Link relations between the D probe and all
goals except for the leftmost AP conjunct, since the latter is the only goal
c-commanded by D (this is indicated in (30) by dashed vs. solid lines). As a
consequence, Agree-Copy, which applies after lowering, copies the feature
values from this AP, and D surfaces with singular number.
Thus, the crucial difference between the leftmost adjective in (27) and the
article in (26) is that the structural position of the latter is changed in the
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 217
postsyntactic component, which alters the locality relations relevant to Agree-
Copy. Therefore, we contend, the phi-featural asymmetry observed in (26)–
(27) is not a sign that the Bulgarian definite article does not agree; rather, it
is a consequence of differences in the postsyntactic derivation of articles and
adjectives that have an effect in the way that agreement is implemented in the
postsyntactic component.
As in Arregi and Nevins 2012 and Bhatt and Walkow, forthcoming, the
analysis detailed above is based on the idea that feature valuation is (at least
in some cases) postsyntactic. However, there are important differences between
the three analyses. One of these differences has to do with the location of
Agree-Copy in the postsyntactic derivation. In our analysis of DP-internal
agreement in Bulgarian, Agree-Copy applies after lowering, and the fact that
the former is defined in purely hierarchical terms of c-command and domi-
nance suggests that it precedes linearization, as proposed in Arregi and Nevins
2012. On the other hand, feature valuation in Bhatt and Walkow, forthcoming,
is sensitive to linear order and therefore must apply after linearization. Whether
the three analyses can be put together into a more comprehensive theory of
agreement phenomena is a question that we leave for future research, but we
note here that these differences in analysis are to a great extent due to the fact
that they are designed to account for different phenomena: multiple agreement
with absolutive and dative arguments in Basque in Arregi and Nevins 2012,
closest conjunct agreement in Hindi in Bhatt and Walkow, forthcoming, and
agreement fed by postsyntactic lowering in Bulgarian in the present chapter.
It thus might well be the case that feature valuation is not a single operation
and is in fact distributed in different stages of the postsyntactic derivation, with
the concomitant expectation that crosslinguistic differences might be due to
variation in the application of this postsyntactic process. In this light, it is
worth noting that even within a uniform empirical domain, namely, closest
conjunct agreement, the recent literature (van Koppen 2005; Bhatt and Walkow,
forthcoming; Marušič, Nevins, and Badecker, forthcoming) reveals variation
across languages (or even within a single language) in the factors that deter-
mine feature valuation (c-command, dominance, linear order, or even feature
specificity in vocabulary entries).
12.5 Conclusion
We have shown that the Basque clitic system, with a three-way case distinction
available among its clitics, nonetheless abandons the full utilization of such
distinctions in a specific morphosyntactic context, namely left-adjacency
to the auxiliary root. The fact that ending up in this highly “contingent”
218 Chapter 12
environment nonetheless trumps the otherwise applicable decision based on
closest matching feature specifications constitutes an argument that neutraliza-
tion may occur during VI as a consequence of how exactly specificity is evalu-
ated. The necessity of such context sensitivity as an early step in eliminating
candidates for VI can then be extended to Bulgarian, in which the four-way
gender-number distinction among allomorphs of the definite article is nonethe-
less jettisoned given a categorical context variable with a specific phonological
shape. This analysis of sensitivity of allomorph selection to phonological
form—while perhaps seemingly “Talmudic” in terms of its overall point about
the details of a very specific DM-internal mechanism—is based on potentially
important empirical observations that only arise within the context of a theory,
and we wish to reflect on how incremental advances of this sort are necessary
to constantly reevaluate how Vocabulary Insertion—arguably the singly most
irreducible property of DM—works in its gory details. As vocabulary entries
are one of the most variable aspects of human language, one does not always
come across cases that decidedly favor one formulation over another. Nonethe-
less, a focus on the specific properties of how disjunctive ordering is deter-
mined is among the many steps necessary as part of the overall broad research
program pioneered by Morris Halle and Alec Marantz, the goal of which is to
examine the organization of the morphological component in terms of com-
putations on representations enacted by mechanisms that are distributed and
shared across various modules of the grammar.
Notes
*Thanks to Boris Harizanov, Vera Gribanova, Peter Svenonius, and other participants
at the Stanford Workshop on Locality and Directionality at the Morphosyntax-Phonol-
ogy Interface, and to the members of GELA-Rio for excellent discussion. Special
thanks to the editors, Ora Matushansky and Alec Marantz, for their encouragement and
for organizing this endeavor.
1. One of Kiparsky’s subsequent breakthroughs, along similar lines, is found in Kip-
arsky 1982, in which intrinsic ordering is sought between pairs of rules based on their
properties such as sensitivity to derived environments, word boundaries, and so forth,
thereby constituting a cluster of properties that, by hypothesis were ordered into relative
strata. It is this latter strategy that is pursued in its application to the organization of
the morphological component in Arregi and Nevins 2012.
2. There may be examples in the literature of extrinsically ordered vocabulary entries
but they are usually not accepted as optimal analyses, whereas in phonology extrinsic
ordering in some cases continues to be irreducible.
3. In other words, there is no need for a back-formation analysis of self-destruct
(Aronoff 1976, 27–28), which simply receives the elsewhere allomorph. Surprising
confirmation of the analysis in the text comes from the lyrics to the song “As I Destruct”
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 219
by Threat Signal (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zuYRul_8W9o), which employ
the verb in question in an unaccusative usage, where v* is not present.
4. We assume that passive destroyed (not *destructed) contains transitive v*. This can
be implemented in terms of a head Voice distinct from and higher than v* that is
responsible for the syntactic presence of the external argument in actives and its
absence in passives, as well as other systematic differences between passive and active
configurations (Kratzer 1996; Collins 2005; Pylkkänen 2008; Harley 2013).
5. Except otherwise noted, all Basque data are from our own fieldwork. In representing
Basque sentences, we use orthographic conventions that are standard in the dialecto-
logical literature. We have accordingly adapted the orthography of examples whose
sources do not use these conventions. For ease of exposition, all auxiliaries in the
Basque examples are given in italics, and their component morphemes are separated
by spaces. In addition, they are given in their surface form in isolation. Where relevant,
they are followed in parentheses by the form that results from morphophonological
processes that apply across word boundaries.
6. Several processes, some of which are described below, can alter the relative position
of these morphemes.
7. On the absence of third-person (absolutive) proclitics, see Arregi and Nevins 2012,
52–56.
8. Furthermore, the allomorphs of T (8) and (9) are specific to auxiliaries with Ergative
Metathesis or Doubling—that is, these forms are conditioned on the presence of an
ergative (as opposed to absolutive) clitic in proclitic position, which shows that the
proclitic is ergative even at the point of Vocabulary Insertion when the form of T is
determined.
9. Ergative and Dative Doubling are not as well described as Ergative Metathesis, and
it is possible that their incidence in dialectal variation in Basque verbal morphology is
underreported. One indication that this might be the case is the fact that Ergative Dou-
bling (as opposed to Metathesis) is specifically prescribed against in Batua, the standard
dialect. For instance, it is listed together with other “common errors” at several points
in Zubiri and Zubiri 2012 (e.g., common error #5 on p. 473 and #3 on p. 481).
10. For ease of exposition, we implement these entries in terms of informal reference
to features (e.g. “first,” “singular”) instead of binary features such as [±participant] and
[±singular]. These details are not important for the discussion.
11. Note that linearization-dependent allomorphy—where neutralization is not neces-
sarily even at stake—is found in many languages with proclisis/enclisis alternations,
such as Paduan (see Poletto 2000, 51–55; Cardinaletti and Repetti 2008; and references
cited there) and Valencian Catalan (Todolí 1992).
12. In Arregi and Nevins 2012, 117–124, we propose a different analysis in which,
taking advantage of the fact that Basque proclitic entries such as (11a) must make refer-
ence to the category feature of the following morpheme (T), category features are
privileged over other features in determining competition at Vocabulary Insertion.
Although the analysis works for Basque pronominal clitics, it does not extend to the
case of Bulgarian definite articles (section 12.3 below). We would like to thank Vera
Gribanova for helpful discussion of this point.
220 Chapter 12
13. All Bulgarian examples are from Harizanov and Gribanova 2011, unless otherwise
noted.
14. See also Sadock 1991, 117–120, for similar patterns in Macedonian, with respect
to both the position of the definite article and its allomorphy.
15. We adopt a traditional structure for adjectival modification where AP is an adjunct
to NP (see Dost and Gribanova 2006 for arguments specific to Bulgarian). Embick and
Noyer (2001) assume a structure where NP is the complement of A (Abney 1987). The
main reason for this seems to be their hypothesis that lowering can only adjoin a head
to the head of its complement. However, Embick and Noyer (2001, section 7.2) relax
this condition on lowering in order to account for cases where the target of this opera-
tion is clearly not the head of the complement of the lowered head. Furthermore, in
the specific case of Bulgarian, the article attaches to the first adjective in examples with
coordinated adjectives ((26) below), which, even under Abney’s (1987) analysis, is not
in any clear sense the head of the complement of D. This raises interesting questions
about the workings of lowering that go well beyond the scope of the present chapter.
16. According to Bontcheva and Kilbury 2003, some animate-denoting nouns that do
not end in -o, such as atashe ‘attaché’, seem to be exceptions, since they take the neuter
allomorph -to. However, they trigger neuter agreement in modifying adjectives (Boris
Harizanov, personal communication), which entails that they are in fact neuter (with
respect to grammatical gender, which mismatches natural gender), and thus selection
of the neuter allomorph of the article is expected. On the other hand, plural numerals
that end in o (e.g., sto ‘hundred’) are genuine exceptions, since they take the stress-
attracting allomorph -té (Scatton 1984, 171) instead of the expected -to. In terms of
the analysis proposed below, we assume that these idiosyncratic exceptions are due to
an additional vocabulary entry for -té contextually specified for these hosts. We would
like to thank Vera Gribanova, Boris Harizanov, and Ora Matushansky for bringing these
data to our attention.
17. We only provide examples of articles attaching to nouns here. See Harizanov and
Gribanova 2011 for relevant examples of noun modifiers, and for further illustration
of the generalizations with nouns.
18. Bulgarian neutralizes gender distinctions in the plural.
19. In the first two entries, “/-V/” is taken to mean ‘ends in V’.
20. Although resolution in coordination is normally understood as operating “bottom-
up” (the features on &P are determined by the features on coordinated elements), we
assume that resolution rules are neutral in this respect, and can thus be used in a “top-
down” fashion. Note that agreement resolution in (26)–(27) could also result in either
or both conjoined adjectives being plural. The presence of singular agreement on both
conjoined adjectives in (26)–(27) has a distributive effect on the meaning of these DPs,
paraphrasable as ‘the (friendly) Bulgarian nation and the (friendly) Russian nation’
(not nations). It is not clear to us at this point whether this means that agreement can
have semantic effects, or whether it calls for a change in the structure of coordination
assumed here.
21. See below for brief comparison and discussion of differences between our account
of agreement and the analyses in Arregi and Nevins 2012 and Bhatt and Walkow,
forthcoming.
Contextual Neutralization and the Elsewhere Principle 221
22. These structures abstract away from agreement relations established by D in (27)
(which work the same way as in (26)) and by &P (which agrees with its sister NP).
Note also that the features on &P and the conjuncts are only available after feature
valuation in the postsyntactic component. We specify them in (29) for ease of exposi-
tion. Both AP and &P are phrasal probes. Although probes are normally assumed to
be heads (e.g., Chomsky 2000), we assume that phrasal probes are possible (Carstens
2012). Under a traditional adjunction analysis of adjectival modification, where the
agreeing adjective is inside an AP adjoined to the NP containing the agreed with noun,
this assumption is necessary (at least for DP-internal agreement), unless one adopts
Baker’s (2008, chap. 2) proposal that agreement is possible when the goal c-commands
the probe. Furthermore, in the case of coordinated APs in (29), the probe must be the
plural &P, which is phrasal, not the singular As contained in it.
Abney, Steven. 1987. The English noun phrase in its sentential aspect. Doctoral
dissertation, MIT.
Abusch, Dorit. 1997. Sequence of tense and temporal de re. Linguistics and Philosophy
20:1–50.
Abusch, Dorit. 2004. On the temporal composition of infinitives. In Jacqueline Guéron
and Jacqueline Lecarme, eds., The Syntax of Time, 27–53. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ackema, Peter, andAd Neeleman. 2003. Context-sensitive Spell-Out. Natural Language
& Linguistic Theory 21:681–735.
Ackema, Peter, and Ad Neeleman. 2004. Beyond Morphology: Interface Conditions on
Word Formation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ackema, Peter, and Ad Neeleman. 2012. Agreement weakening at PF: A reply to
Benmamoun and Lorimor. Linguistic Inquiry 43:75–96.
Acquaviva, Paolo. 2008. Lexical Plurals: A Morphosemantic Approach. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Adger, David, and Daniel Harbour. 2007. Syntax and syncretisms of the Person Case
Constraint. Syntax 10:2–37.
Adger, David, and Jennifer Smith. 2005. Variation and the Minimalist Program. In
Leonie Cornips and Karen P. Corrigan, eds., Syntax and Variation: Reconciling the
Biological and the Social, 149–178. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Akinlabi, Akinbiyi. 1996. Featural affixation. Journal of Lingvistics 32:239–289.
Akinlabi, Akinbiyi. 2011. Featural affixes. In Marc van Oostendorp, Colin J. Ewen,
and Elizabeth V. Hume, eds., The Blackwell Companion to Phonology, 1945–1971.
New York: Wiley.
Albizu, Pablo, and Luis Eguren. 2000. An optimality theoretic account for “ergative
displacement” in Basque. In Wolfgang U. Dressler, Oskar E. Pfeiffer, Markus A.
Pöchtrager, and John R. Rennison, eds., Morphological Analysis in Comparison, 1–23.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Albright, Adam, and Eric Fuß. 2012. Syncretism. In Jochen Trommer, ed., The
Morphology and Phonology of Exponence, 236–288. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Alcoba, Santiago. 1999. La flexión verbal. In Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte,
eds., Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, 4915–4992. Madrid: Espasa.
References
224 References
Allen, Barbara, Donna Gardiner, and Donald Frantz. 1984. Noun incorporation in
Southern Tiwa. International Journal of American Linguistics 50:292–311.
Alsina, Àlex. 2002. L’infinitiu. In Joan Solà, Maria Rosa Lloret, Joan Mascaró, and
Manuel Pérez Saldanya, eds., Gramàtica del català contemporani, 2389–2454.
Barcelona: Empúries.
Amaya, María. 1999. Damana. Munich: Lincom Europa.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena, and Yota Samioti. Forthcoming. Domains within words and
their meanings: A case study. In Artemis Alexiadou, Hagit Borer, and Florian Schäfer,
eds., The Syntax of Roots and the Roots of Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Anderson, Stephen. 1984. On representations in morphology: Case marking, agreement
and inversion in Georgian. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 2:157–218.
Anderson, Stephen. 1992. A-Morphous Morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Anderson, Stephen. 2008. Phonologically conditioned allomorphy in the morphology
of Surmiran (Rumantsch). In Angela Ralli, Geert Booij, Sergio Scalise, and Athanasios
Karasimos, eds., On-line Proceedings of the 6th Mediterranean Morphology Meeting
(MMM6), 32–48. Ithaca, Greece: University of Patras, Universiteit Leiden, Università
degli Studi di Bologna. http://morbo.lingue.unibo.it/mmm.
Anttila, Arto. 1997. Deriving variation from grammar. In Frans Hinskens, Roeland van
Hout, and W. Leo Wetzels, eds., Variation, Change and Phonological Theory, 35–68.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Aoun, Joseph, Elabbas Benmamoun, and Dominique Sportiche. 1994. Agreement,
word order, and conjunction in some varieties of Arabic. Linguistic Inquiry
25:195–220.
Arad, Maya. 2003. Locality constraints on the interpretation of roots: The case of
Hebrew denominal verbs. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 21:737–778.
Aronoff, Mark. 1974. Word-structure. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Aronoff, Mark. 1976. Word Formation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Aronoff, Mark. 1988. Head operations and strata in reduplication: A linear treatement.
Yearbook of Morphology 1:1–15.
Aronoff, Mark. 1994. Morphology by Itself: Stems and Inflectional Classes. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Aronoff, Mark, and Kirsten Fudeman. 2011. What is Morphology? 2nd ed.,
Chichester:Wiley-Blackwell.
Aronson, Howard I. 1990. Georgian: A Reading Grammar. Rev. ed. Columbus, OH:
Slavica.
Arregi, Karlos. 2000. Tense in Basque. Ms., MIT.
Arregi, Karlos. 2001. Person and number inflection in Basque. In Beatriz Fernández
and Pablo Albizu, eds., On Case and Agreement, 71–111. Bilbo: Euskal Herriko
Unibertsitatea.
Arregi, Karlos, and Andrew Nevins. 2012. Morphotactics: Basque Auxiliaries and the
Structure of Spellout. Dordrecht: Springer.
References 225
Badia i Margarit, Antoni M. 1951. Gramática histórica catalana. (Cited from the first
Catalan edition, Gramàtica històrica catalana, València: Tres i Quatre, 1981.)
Badia i Margarit, Antoni M. 1994. Gramàtica de la llengua catalana. Barcelona:
Enciclopèdia Catalana.
Baerman, Matthew. 2007. Morphological reversals. Journal of Linguistics 43:33–
61.
Baker, Mark. 1988. Incorporation: A Theory of Grammatical Function Changing.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Baker, Mark. 2008. The Syntax of Agreement and Concord. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Banksira, Degif Petros. 2000. Sound Mutations: The Morphophonology of Chaha.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bartsch, Renate. 1987. The construction of properties under perspectives. Journal of
Semantics 5:293–320.
Bayer, Josef. 1996. Directionality and Logical Form. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic
Publishers.
Beard, Robert. 1995. Lexeme-Morpheme Based Morphology: A General Theory of
Inflection and Word Formation. Albany: State University of New York Press.
Beck, Sigrid. 2000. The semantics of different: Comparison operator and relational
adjective. Linguistics and Philosophy 23:101–139.
Béjar, Susana. 2003. Phi-syntax: A theory of agreement. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Toronto.
Béjar, Susana. 2008. Conditions on Phi-Agree. In Daniel Harbour, David Adger, and
Susana Béjar, eds., Phi Theory: Phi Features across Modules and Interfaces, 130–154.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Béjar, Susana, and Daniel Hall. 1999. Marking markedness: The underlying order of
diagonal syncretisms. Paper presented at the Eastern States Conference on Linguistics
(ESCOL), University of Connecticut, Storrs, 1999.
Béjar, Susana, and Milan Rezac. 2003a. Cyclic agree. Toronto Working Papers in
Linguistics, University of Toronto.
Béjar, Susana, and Milan Rezac. 2003b. Person licensing and the derivation of PCC
effects. In Ana Teresa Pérez-Leroux and Yves Roberge, eds., Romance Linguistics,
49–62. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
De Belder, Marijke. 2011. Roots and Affixes: Eliminating Lexical Categories from
Syntax. Utrecht: LOT.
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo. 2006. Morphological structure and phonological domains
in Spanish denominal derivation. In Fernando Martínez-Gil and Sonia Colina, eds.,
Optimality-Theoretic Studies in Spanish Phonology, 278–311. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo. 2013. The Spanish lexicon stores stems with theme vowels,
not roots with inflectional class features. Probus 25:1.
Bhatt, Rajesh. 2000. Covert modality in non-finite contexts. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Pennsylvania.
226 References
Bhatt, Rajesh, and Roumyana Pancheva. 2004. Late merge of degree clauses. Linguistic
Inquiry 35:1–45.
Bhatt, Rajesh, and Martin Walkow. Forthcoming. Locating agreement in grammar: An
argument from agreement in conjunctions. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory.
Bierwisch, Manfred. 1989. The semantics of gradation. In Manfred Bierwisch and
Ewald Lang, eds., Dimensional Adjectives, 71–261. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
Blair, Robert W., and Refugio Vermont Salas. 1995. SpokenYucatec Maya. Chapel Hill,
NC: Duke-UNC Consortium in Latin American Studies.
Bliss, Heather. 2005. Formalizing point-of-view: The role of sentience in Blackfoot’s
direct/inverse system. MA thesis, University of Calgary.
Bobaljik, Jonathan. 2000. The ins and outs of contextual allomorphy. In Kleanthes K.
Grohmann and Caro Struijke, eds., University of Maryland Working Papers in
Linguistics 10, 35–71. College Park: University of Maryland.
Bobaljik, Jonathan. 2002. Syncretism without paradigms: Remarks on Williams 1981,
1994. In Geert Booij and Jaap van Marle, eds., Yearbook of Morphology 2001,
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Bobaljik, Jonathan. 2008. Paradigms (Optimal and otherwise): A case for skepticism.
In Asaf Bachrach and Andrew Nevins, eds., Inflectional Identity, 29–54. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Bobaljik, Jonathan. 2012. Universals in Comparative Morphology: Suppletion,
Superlatives, and the Structure of Words. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bobaljik, Jonathan, and Susi Wurmbrand. 2005. The domain of agreement. Natural
Language & Linguistic Theory 23:809–865.
Bonet, Eulàlia. 1991. Morphology after syntax: Pronominal clitics in Romance.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Bonet, Eulàlia, and Daniel Harbour. 2012. Contextual allomorphy. In Jochen Trommer,
ed., The Morphology and Phonology of Exponence, 195–235. Studies in Theoretical
Linguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bonet, Eulàlia, Maria-Rosa Lloret, and Joan Mascaró. Forthcoming. The prenominal
allomorphy syndrome. In Eulàlia Bonet, Maria-Rosa Lioret, and Joan Mascaró, eds.,
Understanding Allomorphy: Perspectives from Optimality Theory. London: Equinox.
Bonet, Eulàlia, and Joan Mascaró. 2012. Asimetrías de concordancia en el SD: El rasgo
de masa en asturiano. In Antonio Fábregas, Elena Felíu, Josefa Martín, and José Pazó,
eds., Los límites de la morfología: Estudios ofrecidos a Soledad Varela Ortega, 91–104.
Madrid: Servicio de Publicaciones de la Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.
Bontcheva, Katina, and James Kilbury. 2003. An inheritance-based description of
Bulgarian noun inflection. In S. Piperides and V. Karkaletsis, eds., International Work-
shop “Balkan Language Resources and Tools” in the Framework of the 1st Balkan
Conference in Informatics (BCI), 23–27. Seville, Spain: Incoma.
Bošković, Željko. 1996. Selection and the categorial status of Infinitival Complements.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 14:269–304.
Bošković, Željko. 1997. The Syntax of Nonfinite Complementation: An Economy
Approach. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
References 227
Bošković, Željko. 2002. A-Movement and the EPP. Syntax 5:167–218.
Bošković, Željko. 2007. On the locality and motivation of Move and Agree: An even
more minimal theory. Linguistic Inquiry 38:589–644.
Bošković, Željko. 2010. Phases beyond clauses. Ms., University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Bouchard, Denis. 2002. Adjectives, Number and Interfaces: Why Languages Vary.
Oxford: Elsevier Science.
Bouchard, Denis. 2005. Sériation des adjectifs dans le SN et formation de concepts. In
Patricia Cabredo Hofherr and Ora Matushansky, eds., L’Adjectif, 125–142. Recherches
Linguistiques de Vincennes 34. Saint-Denis: Presses Universitaires de Vincennes.
Bowers, John. 1975. Adjectives and adverbs in English. Foundations of Language
13:529–562.
Bowers, John. 1987. Extended X-bar theory, the ECP and the Left Branch Condition.
In Megan Crowhurst, ed., Proceedings of WCCFL 6, 47–62. stanford, CA: CSLI.
Bresnan, Joan. 1973. Syntax of the comparative clause construction in English. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 4:275–343.
Brody, Michael. 1997. Perfect chains. In Liliane Haegeman, ed., Elements of Grammar:
Handbook of Generative Syntax, 139–167. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Brownie, John, and Marjo Brownie. 2007. Mussau Grammar Essentials. Ukarumpa,
Papua New Guinea: SIL-PNG Academic Publications. www.sil.org/pacific/png/
pubs/48552/MussauGrammarEssentials.pdf.
Bruening, Benjamin. 2001. Syntax at the edge: Cross-clausal phenomena and the
syntax of Passamaquoddy. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Burzio, Luigi. 1994. Principles of English Stress. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Burzio, Luigi. 2007. Phonology and phonetics of English stress and vowel reduction.
Language Sciences 29:154–176.
Bye, Patrik, and Peter Svenonius. 2012. Non-concatenative morphology as epiphenom-
enon. In Jochen Trommer, ed., The Morphology and Phonology of Exponence, 427–
494. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Caha, Pavel. 2009. The nanosyntax of case. Docforal dissertation, CASTL Tromsø.
Calabrese, Andrea. 1999. Metaphony revisited. Rivista di Linguistica 10:7–68.
Calabrese, Andrea. 2009. Metaphony. Ms., University of Connecticut.
Calabrese, Andrea. 2012. Allomorphy in the Italian Passato Remoto: A Distributed
Morphology analysis. Ms., University of Connecticut.
Cardinaletti,Anna, and Giuliana Giusti. 2001. “Semi-lexical” motion verbs in Romance
and Germanic. In Norbert Corver and Henk van Riemsdijk, eds., Semi-lexical Catego-
ries. On the Function of Content Words and the Content of Function Words, 371–414.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cardinaletti, Anna, and Lori Repetti. 2008. The phonology and syntax of preverbal and
postverbal subject clitics in Northern Italian dialects. Linguistic Inquiry 39:523–563.
Carlson, Gregory Norman. 1977. A unified analysis of the English bare plural. Lin-
guistics and Philosophy 1:413–457.
228 References
Carstairs, Andrew. 1987. Allomorphy in Inflection. Croom Helm Linguistics Series.
London: Croom Helm.
Carstairs-McCarthy, Andrew. 1992. Current Morphology. London: Routledge.
Carstens, Vicki. 2012. Delayed valuation: A reanalysis of “upwards” complementizer
agreement and the mechanics of case. Ms., University of Missouri, Columbia.
Castillo, Juan Carlos, John E. Drury, and Kleanthes K. Grohmann. 2009. Merge Over
Move and the Extended Projection Principle: MOM and the EPP Revisited. Iberia: An
International Journal of Theoretical Linguistics 1 (1):53–114.
Cecchetto, Carlo. 2003. QR in the theory of phases. In Gina Garding and Mimu
Tsujimura, eds., Proceedings of the 22nd West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics
(WCCFL), 123–136. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Cecchetto, Carlo. 2004. Explaining the locality conditions of QR: Consequences for
the theory of phases. Natural Language Semantics 12:345–397.
Chomsky, Noam. 1957. Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, Noam. 1973. Conditions on transformations. In Stephen R. Anderson and
Paul Kiparsky, eds., A Festschrift for Morris Halle, 232–286. NewYork: Holt, Rinehart
and Winston.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986. Barriers. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Roger Martin, David
Michaels, and Juan Uriagereka, eds., Step by Step: Essays on Minimalist Syntax in
Honor of Howard Lasnik, 89–156. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz, ed., Ken Hale:
A Life in Language, 1–52. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam, and Morris Halle. 1968. The Sound Pattern of English. New York:
Harper and Row.
Chung, Inkie. 2007. Suppletive negation in Korean and Distributed Morphology.
Lingua 117:95–148.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2005. Deriving Greenberg’s Universal 20 and its exceptions.
Linguistic Inquiry 36:315–332.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2010. The Syntax of Adjectives: A Comparative Study. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Cipria, Alicia, and Craige Roberts. 2001. Spanish imperfecto and pretérito: Truth
conditions and Aktionsart effects in a Situation Semantics. Revised version of a paper
by the same name that appeared in 1996, in Jae-Hak Yoon and Andreas Kathol, eds.,
Papers in Semantics: OSU Working Papers in Linguistics 49, 43–70. Columbus: Ohio
State University.
Clarke, John. 2001. Children’s production of comparative more and -er: Elicited
production versus relative judgement. In Florencia Franceschina, Michelle Kingston,
and Emma Thomas, eds., Essex Graduate Student Papers in Language and Linguistics,
vol. 4, 1–18. Colchester: Department of Language and Linguistics, University of
Essex.
References 229
Clua, Esteve. 1999. Variació i distància lingüística: Classificació dialectal del
valencià a partir de la morfologia flexiva. Doctoral dissertation, Universitat de
Barcelona.
Collins, Chris. 2005. A smuggling approach to the passive in English. Syntax
8:81–120.
Colón, Germà. 1976. Sobre el perfet perifràstic vado+infinitiu en català, en provençal
i en francès. In Felip M. Lorda i Alaiz and Jean Roudil, eds., Problemes de llengua i
literatura catalanes: Actes del II Col·loqui Internacional sobre el català, Amsterdam
1970, 101–144. Barcelona: Publicacions de l’Abadia de Montserrat.
Comajoan, Llorenç, and Manuel Pérez Saldanya. 2005. Grammaticalization and
language acquisition: Interaction of lexical aspect and discourse. In David Eddington,
ed., Selected Proceedings of the 6th Conference on the Acquisition of Spanish and
Portuguese as First and Second Languages, 44–55. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Proceedings Project.
Corbett, Greville. 1983. Hierarchies, Targets and Controllers: Agreement Patterns in
Slavic. London: Croom Helm.
Corbett, Greville. 2000. Number. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Corbett, Greville. 2010. Features: Essential notions. In Anna Kibort and Greville
Corbett, eds., Features, 17–36. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Corver, Norbert. 1990. The syntax of left branch extractions. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Tilburg.
Corver, Norbert. 1991. Evidence for DegP. In Tim Sherer, ed., Proceedings of NELS
21, 33–47. Amherst: GLSA, University of Massachusetts.
Corver, Norbert. 1997a. The internal syntax of the Dutch extended adjectival projection.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 15:289–368.
Corver, Norbert. 1997b. Much-support as a last resort. Linguistic Inquiry 28:119–
164.
Corver, Norbert. 2005. Double comparatives and the comparative criterion. In Patricia
Cabredo Hofherr and Ora Matushansky, eds., L’Adjectif, 165–190. Recherches
Linguistiques de Vincennes 34. Saint-Denis: Presses Universitaires de Vincennes.
Cowper, Elizabeth. 2005. A note on number. Linguistic Inquiry 36:441–455.
Curnow, Timothy. 2000. Why “first/non-first person” is not grammaticalized mirativity.
In Keith Allan and John Henderson, eds., Proceedings of ALS2k: The 2000 Conference
of the Australian Linguistic Society. http:: //www.als.asn.au.
Curnow, Timothy. 2002. Conjunct/disjunct marking in Awa Pit. Linguistics 40:611–
627.
Cutillas, Juan Antonio. 2003. Teoría lingüística de la optimidad: Fonología, morfología
y aprendizaje. Murcia: Servicio de Publicaciones de la Universidad de Murcia.
Davies, Mark. 2008–. The Corpus of Contemporary American English: 425 million
words, 1990–present. http://corpus.byu.edu/coca/.
Den Dikken, Marcel. 2007. Phase extension: Contours of a theory of the role of head
movement in phrasal extraction. Theoretical Linguistics 33:1–41.
230 References
DiSciullo, Anna-Maria, and Edwin Williams. 1987. On the Definition of Word.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dixon, R. M. W. 1983. Nyawaygi. In R. M. W. Dixon and Barry J. Blake, eds.,
Handbook of Australian Languages, vol. 3, 431–525. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Doetjes, Jenny, Ad Neeleman, and Hans van de Koot. 1998. Degree expressions and
the autonomy of syntax. UCL Working Papers in Linguistics 10:323–368.
Dost, Ascander, and Vera Gribanova. 2006. Definiteness marking in the Bulgarian. In
Donald Baumer, David Montero, and Michael Scanlon, eds., Proceedings of the 25th
West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics (WCCFL), 132–140. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Van Driem, George. 1987. A Grammar of Limbu. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dumézil, George. 1931. La langue des oubykhs. Paris: Honoré Champion.
Eddington, David, and José Ignacio Hualde. 2008. El abundante agua fría:
Hermaphroditic Spanish nouns. Studies in Hispanic and Lusophone Linguistics 1:5–31.
Ekdahl, Muriel, and Joseph E. Grimes. 1964. Terena verb inflection. International
Journal of American Linguistics 30:261–268.
Embick, David. 1997. Voice and the interfaces of syntax. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Pennsylvania.
Embick, David. 1998. Voice systems and the syntax/morphology interface. In Heidi
Harley, ed., MITWPL 32: Papers from the UPenn/MIT Roundtable on Argument
Structure and Aspect, 41–72. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department of Linguistics
and Philosophy, MIT.
Embick, David. 2000. Features, syntax and categories in the Latin perfect. Linguistic
Inquiry 31:185–230.
Embick, David. 2003. Locality, listedness, and morphological identity. Studia
Linguistica 57:143–169.
Embick, David. 2007a. Blocking effects and analytic/synthetic alternations. Natural
Language & Linguistic Theory 25:1–37.
Embick, David. 2007b. Linearization and local dislocation: Derivational mechanics and
interactions. Linguistic Analysis 33:303–336.
Embick, David. 2008. Variation and morphosyntactic theory: Competition fractionated.
Language and Linguistics Compass 2:59–78.
Embick, David. 2010. Localism versus Globalism in Morphology and Phonology.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Embick, David. 2012. Contextual conditions on stem alternations: Illustrations from
the Spanish conjugation. In Irene Franco, Sara Lusini, and Andrés Saab, eds., Romance
Languages and Linguistic Theory 2010: Selected Papers from “Going Romance,”
Feidem 2010. 21–40. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Embick, David, and Morris Halle. 2005. On the status of stems in morphological theory.
In T. Geerts and H. Jacobs, eds., Proceedings of Going Romance 2003, 59–88.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Embick, David, and Alec Marantz. 2005. Cognitive neuroscience and the English past
tense: Comments on the paper by Ullman et al. Brain and Language 93:243–247.
References 231
Embick, David, and Alec Marantz. 2008. Architecture and blocking. Linguistic Inquiry
39:1–53.
Embick, David, and Rolf Noyer. 1999. Locality in post-syntactic operations. In Vivian
Lin, Cornelia Krause, Benjamin Bruening, and Karlos Arregi, eds., MITWPL 34:
Papers in Morphology and Syntax, 265–317. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department
of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Embick, David, and Rolf Noyer. 2001. Movement operations after syntax. Linguistic
Inquiry 32:555–595.
Embick, David, and Rolf Noyer. 2007. Distributed Morphology and the Syntax/
Morphology Interface. In Gillian Ramchand and Charles Reiss, eds., The Oxford
Handbook of Linguistic Interfaces, 289–324. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Emonds, Joseph. 1976. A Transformational Approach to English Syntax: Root,
Structure-Preserving, and Local Transformations. New York: Academic Press.
Enç, Mürvet. 2004. Rethinking past tense. In Jacqueline Guéron and Jacqueline
Lecarme, eds., The Syntax of Time, 203–215. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
England, Nora. 1983. A Grammar of Mam, a Mayan Language. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Evans, Nicholas. 2003. Bininj Gun-Wok: A Pan-Dialectal Grammar of Mayali,
Kunwinjku and Kune. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics.
Fernández, Beatriz. 2001. Absolutibo komunztaduradun ergatiboak, absolutibo
komunztaduradun datiboak: Ergatiboaren lekualdatzetik datiboaren lekualdatzera. In
Beatriz Fernández and Pablo Albizu, eds., Kasu eta Komunztaduraren Gainean: On
Case and Agreement, 147–165. Bilbo: Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. http://basdisyn.
net/pdf/Kasu eta komunztaduraren%20gainean.pdf.
Fernández, Beatriz, and Pablo Albizu. 2000. Ergative displacement in Basque and the
division of labor between morphology and syntax. In Akira Okrent and John P. Boyle,
eds., Proceedings of CLS 36, Vol. 2: The Panels. 103–117. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic
Society, University of Chicago.
Fernández, Beatriz, and María José Ezeizabarrena. 2003. Itsasaldeko solezismoa,
datiboaren lekualdatzearen argipean. In Jesus Mari Makazaga and Bernard Oyharçabal,
eds., Euskaltzaindiaren Biltzarra 15, 255–277. Bilbo: Euskaltzaindia. http://www.
euskaltzaindia.org/dok/ikerbilduma/54817.pdf.
Fernández-Ordóñez, Inés. 2007. El ‘neutro de materia’ enAsturias y Cantabria:Análisis
gramatical y nuevos datos. In Inmaculada Delgados Cobos and Alicia Puigvert Ocal,
eds., Ex admiratione et amicitia: Homenaje a Ramón Santiago, 395–434. Madrid:
Ediciones del Orto.
Fitzpatrick, Justin. 2002. On minimalist approaches to the locality of movement.
Linguistic Inquiry 33:443–463.
Foley, William. 1986. The Papuan Languages of New Guinea. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Fortson, Benjamin W. 2010. Indo-European Language and Culture: An Introduction.
Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
Fox, Danny. 1999. Reconstruction, binding theory, and the interpretation of chains.
Linguistic Inquiry 30:157–196.
232 References
Fox, Danny. 2000. Economy and Semantic Interpretation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press/
MITWPL.
Franck, Julie, Glenda Lassi, Ulrich H. Frauenfelder, and Luigi Rizzi. 2006. Agreement
and movement: A syntactic analysis of attraction. Cognition 101:173–216.
Franks, Steven. 2001. The internal structure of Slavic NPs, with special reference to
Bulgarian. In Adam Przepiorkowski and Piotr Banski, eds., Generative Linguistics in
Poland (GLiP) 2, 53–69. Warsaw: Polskiej Akademii Nauk, Instytut Podstaw
Informatyki.
Fudge, Eric. 1984. English Word-Stress. London: Allen and Unwin.
Fuß, Eric. 2012. Syncretism. In Jochen Trommer, ed., The Morphology and Phonology
of Exponence, 236–288. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gallego, Ángel. 2005. Phase sliding. Ms., University of Barcelona and University of
Maryland, College Park.
Gallego, Ángel. 2010. Phase theory. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gallego, Ángel, and Juan Uriagereka. 2006. Sub-extraction from subjects. Ms.,
University of Barcelona and University of Maryland, College Park.
Gavarró, Anna, and Brenda Laca. 2002. Les perífrasis temporals, aspectuals i modals.
In Joan Solà, Maria Rosa Lloret, Joan Mascaró, and Manuel Pérez Saldanya, eds.,
Gramàtica del català contemporani, 2663–2726. Barcelona: Empúries.
Giorgi, Alessandra, and Fabio Pianesi. 1998. Tense and Aspect: From Semantics to
Morphosyntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gómez Durán, Gemma. 2011. Gramàtica del català rossellonès. Doctoral dissertation,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona.
Gómez Torrego, Leonardo. 1999. Los verbos auxiliares: Las perífrasis verbales de
infinitivo. In Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte, eds., Gramática descriptiva de la
lengua española, 3323–3390. Madrid: Espasa.
González-Díaz, Victorina. 2007. On the nature and distribution of English double
periphrastic comparison. Review of English Studies 57:623–664.
González-Poot, Antonio, and Martha McGinnis. 2006. Local versus long-distance
fission in Distributed Morphology. In Claire Gurski, ed., Proceedings of the 2005
Annual Conference of the Canadian Linguistic Association. http://westernlinguistics.
ca/ Publications/CLA-ACL/CLA-ACL2005.htm.
Graziano-King, Janine. 1999. Acquisition of comparative forms in English. Doctoral
dissertation, CUNY.
Grohmann, Kleanthes K, ed. 2009. InterPhases: Phase-Theoretic Investigations of
Linguistic Interfaces. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Grohmann, Kleanthes K., John Drury, and Juan Carlos Castillo. 2000. No more EPP.
In Roger Billerey and Brook Danielle Lillehaugen, eds., Proceedings of the 19th West
Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics (WCCFL), 153–166. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Guasti, Maria Teresa, and Luigi Rizzi. 2002. Agreement and tense as distinct syntactic
positions: Evidence from acquisition. In Guglielmo Cinque, ed., The Structure of DP
References 233
and IP—The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, vol. 1, 167–194. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Hagman, Roy S. 1977. Nama Hottentot Grammar. Bloomington: Indiana University
Press.
Haiman, John, and Paola Benincà. 1992. The Raetho-Romance Languages. London:
Routledge.
Hale, Kenneth. 1997. Some observations on the contribution of local languages to
linguistic science. Lingua 100:71–89.
Halle, Morris. 1957. In defence of the number two. In Ernst Pulgram, ed., Studies
Presented to Joshua Whatmough on His Sixtieth Birthday, 65–72. The Hague: Mouton.
Halle, Morris. 1959. The Sound Pattern of Russian. The Hague: Mouton.
Halle, Morris 1973. Prolegomena to a theory of word formation. Linguistic Inquiry 4
(1): 3–16.
Halle, Morris. 1990. An approach to morphology. In Juli Carter, Rose-Marie Dechaine,
Bill Philip, and Tim Sherer, eds., Proceedings of NELS 20, 150–184. Amherst: GLSA,
University of Massachusetts.
Halle, Morris. 1995. Feature geometry and feature spreading. Linguistic Inquiry 26:1–
46. Reprinted in Morris Halle, ed., From Memory to Speech and Back: Papers on
Phonetics and Phonology 1954–2002, 196–252. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 2002.
Halle, Morris. 1997a. Distributed Morphology: Impoverishment and Fission. In
Benjamin Bruening,Yoonjung Kang, and Martha McGinnis, eds., MITWPL 30: Papers
at the Interface, 425–449. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and
Philosophy, MIT.
Halle, Morris. 1997b. On stress and accent in Indo-European. Language 73:275–313.
Halle, Morris. 1998. The stress of English words 1968–1998. Linguistic Inquiry
29:539–568.
Halle, Morris. 2001. Infixation versus onset metathesis in Tagalog, Chamorro, and Toba
Batak. In Michael Kenstowicz, ed., Ken Hale: A Life in Language, 153–168. Cambridge:
MA: MIT Press.
Halle, Morris, James W. Harris, and Jean-Roger Vergnaud. 1991. A reexamination of
the Stress Erasure Convention and Spanish Stress. Linguistic Inquiry 22:141–159.
Halle, Morris, and William Idsardi. 1995. General properties of stress and metrical
structure. In J. Goldsmith, ed., The Handbook of Phonological Theory, 402–443.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Halle, Morris, and Michael Kenstowicz. 1991. The Free Element Condition and cyclic
versus noncyclic stress. Linguistic Inquiry 22:457–501.
Halle, Morris, and Paul Kiparsky. 1977. Towards a reconstruction of the Proto-Indo-
European accent. In Larry M. Hyman, ed., Studies in Stress and Accent, 209–238. Los
Angeles: USC Department of Linguistics.
Halle, Morris, andAlec Marantz. 1993. Distributed Morphology and the pieces of inflection.
In Kenneth Hale and Samuel J. Keyser, eds., The View from Building 20: Essays in
Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger, 111–176. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
234 References
Halle, Morris, and Alec Marantz. 1994. Some key features of Distributed Morphology.
In Andrew Carnie, Heidi Harley, and Tony Bures, eds., MITWPL 21: Papers on
Phonology and Morphology, 275–288. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department of
Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Hale, Morris, and Jean-Roger Vergnaud. 1987. An Essay on Stress. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Hanson, Rebecca. 2003. Why can’t we all just agree?: Animacy and the person case
constraint. MA thesis, University of Calgary.
Harbour, Daniel. 2007. Morphosemantic Number: From Kiowa Noun Classes to UG
Number Features. Dordrecht: Springer.
Harbour, Daniel. 2011a. Descriptive and explanatory markedness. Morphology
21:223–240.
Harbour, Daniel. 2011b. The generative syntax of the natural numbers. Ms., Queen
Mary University of London.
Harbour, Daniel. 2011c. Paucity, abundance, and the theory of number. Ms., Queen
Mary University of London.
Harbour, Daniel. 2011d. Valence and atomic number. Linguistic Inquiry 42:561–594.
Harbour, Daniel. 2012. The structure of persons and the atoms of thought. Ms., Queen
Mary University of London.
Harbour, Daniel, and Christian Elsholtz. 2011. Feature geometry: Self-destructed. Ms.,
Queen Mary University of London and Technische Universität Graz.
Harizanov, Boris, and Vera Gribanova. 2011. The role of morphological and
phonological factors in Bulgarian allomorph selection. In Nick LaCara,Anie Thompson,
and Matt A. Tucker, eds., Morphology at Santa Cruz: Papers in Honor of Jorge
Hankamer, 31–40. Santa Cruz: Linguistics Research Center, University of California.
Harizanov, Boris, and Vera Gribanova. 2012. Inward sensitive contextual allomorphy
and its conditioning factors. Paper presented at the North East Linguistic Society, City
University of NewYork, October 19–21. http://people.ucsc.edu/˜bharizan/presentations.
html.
Harley, Heidi. 1994. Hug a tree: Deriving the morphosyntactic feature hierarchy. In
Andrew Carnie, Heidi Harley, and Tony Bures, eds., MITWPL 21: Papers on Phonology
and Morphology, 289–320. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and
Philosophy, MIT.
Harley, Heidi. 2010. Affixation and the Mirror Principle. In Raffaella Folli and
Christiane Ullbricht, eds., Interfaces in Linguistics, 166–186. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Harley, Heidi. 2011. On the identity of roots. Paper presented at the Approaches to the
Lexicon Workshop (Roots III), Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, June 13.
Harley, Heidi. 2013. External arguments and the Mirror Principle: On the distinctness
of Voice and v. Lingua 125:34–57.
Harley, Heidi, and Rolf Noyer. 2000. Licensing in the non-lexicalist lexicon. In Bert
Peeters, ed., The Lexicon/Encyclopaedia Interface, 349–374. Amsterdam: Elsevier
Press.
References 235
Harley, Heidi, and Elizabeth Ritter. 2002. Person and number in pronouns: A feature-
geometric analysis. Language 78:482–526.
Harley, Heidi, and Mercedes Tubino Blanco. 2010. Dos tipos de base verbal en Hiaki
(yaqui). In Rosa María Ortiz Ciscomani, ed., Análisi lingüístico: enfoques sincrónico,
diacrónico e interdisciplinario, 97–128. Hermosillo, Son., Mexico: Editorial Unison.
Harley, Heidi, and Mercedes Tubino Blanco. 2012. Phase-theoretic mismatches in the
morphology and syntax of Hiaki verb stems. Talk presented at Exploring the interfaces
1: Word Structure, held at McGill University, May 6–8.
Harley, Heidi, Mercedes Tubino Blanco, and Jason Haugen. 2009. Applicative
constructions and suppletive verbs in Hiaki (Yaqui). In L. Lanz, A. Franklin, J. Hoecker,
E. Gentry Brunner, M. Morrison, and C. Pace, eds., Rice Working Papers in Linguistics
1:42–51.
Harrington, John P. 1946. Three Kiowa texts. International Journal of American
Linguistics 12:237–242.
Harris, Alice. 1981. Georgian Syntax: A Study in Relational Grammar. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Harris, James W. 1969. Spanish Phonology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Harris, James W. 1985. Spanish diphthongization and stress: A paradox resolved.
Phonology Yearbook 2:31–45.
Harris, James W. 1987. Disagreement rules, referral rules and the Spanish feminine
article el. Journal of Linguistics 23:177–183.
Harris, James. 1996. The syntax and morphology of class marker suppression in
Spanish. In Karen Zagona, ed., Grammatical Theory and Romance Languages, 99–122.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Harris, James, and Morris Halle. 2005. Unexpected plural inflections in Spanish:
Reduplication and metathesis. Linguistic Inquiry 36:192–222.
Haugen, Jason. 2008. Morphology at the Interfaces: Reduplication and Noun
Incorporation in Uto-Aztecan. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hay, Jennifer, and Harald Baayen. 2005. Shifting paradigms: Gradient structure in
morphology. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 9:342–348.
Hayes, Bruce. 1985. A Metrical Theory of Stress Rules. New York: Garland.
Heath, Jeffrey. 1976. Antipassivization: A functional typology. In Henry Thompson,
Kenneth Whistler, Vicky Edge, Jeri J. Jaeger, Ronya Javkin, Miriam Petruck, Christo-
pher Smeall, and Robert D. Van Valin Jr., eds., Proceedings of the Second Annual
Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 202–211. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics
Society, University of California.
Heim, Irene. 2000. Degree operators and scope. In Brendan Jackson and Tanya Mat-
thews, eds., Proceedings of Semantics and Linguistic Theory (SALT) 10, 40–64. Ithaca,
NY: CLC Publications, Department of Linguistics, Cornell University.
Heim, Irene. 2006. Little. In Christopher Tancredi, Makoto Kanazawa, Ikumi Imani,
and Kiyomi Kusumoto, eds., Proceedings of Semantics and Linguistic Theory (SALT)
16, 35–58. Ithaca, NY: CLC Publications, Department of Linguistics, Cornell
University.
236 References
Helke, Kyle. 2011. Arguments and agreement in Tewa. Ms., Queen Mary University
of London.
Hernanz, Ma. Lluïsa. 1999. El infinitivo. In Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte, eds.,
Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, 2197–2356. Madrid: Espasa.
Hewitt, George. 1979. Lingua Descriptive Studies 2: Abkhaz. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Hilpert, Martin. 2008. The English comparative–-language structure and language use.
English Language and Linguistics 12:395–417.
Hiraiwa, Ken. 2001. Multiple agree and the defective intervention constraint in
Japanese. In Ora Matushansky, ed., MITWPL 40: Harvard-MIT Student Conference on
Language Research (HUMIT) 1, 67–80. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department of
Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Hockett, Charles F. 1954. Two models of grammatical description. Word 10:210–
131.
Hoeksema, Jack. 2012. Elative compounds in Dutch. In Guido Oebel, ed., Cross-Lin-
guistic Comparison of Intensified Adjectives and Adverbs, vol. 2, 97–142. Hamburg:
Verlag Dr. Kovac.
Hualde, José Ignacio. 2003. Finite forms. In José Ignacio Hualde and Jon Ortiz de
Urbina, eds., A Grammar of Basque, 205–246. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hutchisson, Don. 1986. Sursurunga pronouns and the special uses of quadral number.
In Ursula Wiesemann, ed., Pronominal Systems, 217–255. Tübingen: Narr.
Hyman, Larry, Sharon Inkelas, and Galen Sibanda. 2008. Morphosyntactic correspon-
dence in Bantu reduplication. In Kristin Hanson and Sharon Inkelas, eds., The Nature
of the Word: Essays in Honor of Paul Kiparsky, 273–309. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Iatridou, Sabine, Elena Anagnostopoulou, and Roumyana Izvorski. 2001. Observations
about the form and meaning of the perfect. In Michael Kenstowicz, ed., Ken Hale: A
Life in Language, 189–238. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Reprinted in A. Alexiadou,
M. Rathert, and A. von Stechow, eds., Perfect Explorations, Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
2003.
Idsardi, William. 1992. The computation of prosody. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Inkelas, Sharon, and Cheryl Zoll. 2007. Is grammar dependence real? A comparison
between cophonological and indexed constraint approaches. Linguistics 45:133–171.
Ippolito, Michela M. 1999. On the past participle morphology in Italian. In Karlos
Arregi, Vivian Lin, Cornelia Krause, and Benjamin Bruening, eds., MITWPL 33:
Papers in Morphology and Syntax, Cycle One, 111–137. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL,
Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Itô, Junko, and Armin Mester. 1999. The phonological lexicon. In N. Tsujimura, ed.,
The Handbook of Japanese Linguistics, 62–100. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Jackendoff, Ray. 1977. X-Bar Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray. 2000. Curiouser and curiouser. Snippets 1:8.
References 237
Jacobs, Bart. 2011. Present and historical perspectives on the Catalan go-past. Zeitschrift
für Katalanistik 24:227–255.
Janda, Laura A., and Charles Townsend. 2000. Czech. Berlin: Lincom Europa.
Jespersen, Otto. 1956. A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles. 7th ed.
Copenhagen: Ejnar Munksgaard. Originally published in 1909.
Johannessen, Janne Bondi. 1993. Coordination: A minimalist approach. Doctoral dis-
sertation, University of Oslo.
Johnson, Kyle. 2000. How far will quantifiers go? In Roger Martin, David Michaels,
and Juan Uriagereka, eds., Step by Step: Essays on Minimalist Syntax in Honor of
Howard Lasnik, 187–210. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jovanović, Vladimir Ž. 2009. Certain morpho-semantic implications with the gram-
matical category of comparison in English. Facta Universitatis 7:19–28.
Juge, Matthew. 2006. Morphological factors in the grammaticalization of the Catalan
‘go’-past. Diachronica 23(2):313–339.
Kagan, Olga, and Sascha Alexeyenko. 2011. Degree modification in Russian mor-
phology: The case of the suffix -ovat. In Ingo Reich, Eva Horch, and Dennis
Pauly, eds., Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 15, 321–335. Saarbrücken: Saarland
University Press.
Kager, René. 1995. English stress: Re-inventing the paradigm (Review of Principles
of English Stress by Luigi Burzio). GLOT International 9/10:19–21.
Kautzsch, Emil. 1910. Genesius’ Hebrew Grammar. 2nd ed. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Kayne, Richard. 1981. Two notes on the NIC. In Adriana Belletti and Luigi Rizzi, eds.,
Theory of Markedness in Generative Grammar, 317–346. Pisa: Scuole Normale
Superiore.
Kayne, Richard. 1998. Overt vs. covert movement. Syntax 1:128–191.
Kennedy, Christopher. 1997. Antecedent-contained deletion and the syntax of quanti-
fication. Linguistic Inquiry 28:662–688.
Kennedy, Christopher. 1999. Projecting the Adjective: The Syntax and Semantics of
Gradability and Comparison. New York: Garland.
Kennedy, Christopher, and Peter Svenonius. 2006. Northern Norwegian degree ques-
tions and the syntax of measurement. In Mara Frascarelli, ed., Phases of Interpretation,
129–157. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kharytonava, Olga. 2011. Noms composées en turc et morpheme -(s)I. Doctoral dis-
sertation, University of Western Ontario.
Kiefer, Ferenc. 1978. Adjectives and presuppositions. Theoretical Linguistics
5:135–173.
Kiefer, Ferenc. 2001. Morphology and pragmatics. In Andrew Spencer and Arnold M.
Zwicky, eds., The Handbook of Morphology, 272–279. Oxford: Blackwell.
Kikuchi, Seiichiro. 2001. Spanish definite article allomorphy: A correspondence appro-
ach. In Phonological Society of Japan, ed., Phonological Studies 4, 49–56. Tokyo:
Kaitakusha.
238 References
Kiparsky, Paul. 1973. “Elsewhere” in phonology. In Stephen R. Anderson and Paul
Kiparsky, eds., Festschrift for Morris Halle, New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Kiparsky, Paul. 1979. Metrical structure assignment is cyclic. Linguistic Inquiry
10:421–441.
Kiparsky, Paul. 1982. From cyclic phonology to lexical phonology. In H. van der Hulst
and N. Smith, eds., The Structure of Phonological Representations, 130–175. Dordre-
cht: Foris.
Kiparsky, Paul. 1996. Allomorphy or morphophonology? In Rajendra Singh and
Richard Desrochers, eds., Trubetzkoy’s Orphan, 13–31. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kiparsky, Paul. 2005. Blocking and periphrasis in inflectional paradigms. In Yearbook
of Morphology 2004, 113–135. Dordrecht: Springer.
van Koppen, Marjo. 2005. One probe—two goals: Aspects of agreement in Dutch
dialects. Doctoral dissertation, Universiteit Leiden.
Krasikova, Sveta. 2009. Norm-relatedness in degree constructions. In Arndt Riester and
Torgrim Solstad, eds., Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 13, 293–308. Stuttgart:
University of Stuttgart.
Krasikova, Sveta. 2010. Scales in the meaning of adjectives. Oslo Studies in Language
2:51–74.
Kratzer, Angelika. 1996. Severing the external argument from its verb. In Johan
Rooryck and Laurie Zaring, eds., Phrase Structure and the Lexicon, 109–137. Dodre-
cht: Kluwer.
Kratzer, Angelika. 1998. More structural analogies between pronouns and tenses. In
D. Strolovitch and A. Lawson, eds., Proceedings from Semantics and Linguistic Theory
(SALT) VIII, 92–110. Ithaca, NY: CLC Publications, Department of Linguistics, Cornell
University.
Krifka, Manfred. 1992. Thematic relations as links between nominal reference and
temporal constitution. In Ivan Sag and Anna Szabolcsi, eds., Lexical Matters, 29–53.
Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Kroch, Anthony. 1994. Morphosyntactic variation. In Katharine Beals, Jeannette
Denton, Robert Knippen, Lynette Melnar, Hisami Suzuki, and Erica Zeinfeld, eds.,
Papers from the 30th Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society: Parasession
on Variation and Linguistic Theory, 180–201. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Kroskrity, Paul V. 1985. A holistic understanding of Arizona Tewa passives. Language
61:306–328.
Kroskrity, Paul V. 2010. The art of voice: Understanding the Arizona Tewa inverse in
its grammatical, narrative, and language-ideological contexts. Anthropological Linguis-
tics 52:49–79.
Kroskrity, Paul V., and Dewey Healing. 1978. Coyote and bullsnake. In William Bright,
ed., Coyote Stories, 162–171, Chicago: University fo Chicago Press.
Kytö, Merja, and Suzanne Romaine. 1997. Competing forms of adjective comparison
in modern English: What could be more quicker and easier and more effective? In
Terttu Nevalainen and Leena Kahlas-Tarkka, eds., To Explain the Present: Studies in
the Changing English Language in Honour of Mattie Rissanen, 329–352. Helsinki:
Société Néophilologique.
References 239
Labov, William. 1969. Contraction, deletion, and inherent variability of the English
copula. Language 45:715–762.
Labov, William. 1972. Sociolinguistic Patterns. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylva-
nia Press.
Laka, Itziar. 1993. The structure of inflection:A case study in X° syntax. In José Ignacio
Hualde and Jon Ortiz de Urbina, eds., Generative Studies in Basque Linguistics, 21–70.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lebeaux, David. 1995. Where does binding theory apply? In Ricardo Echepare and
Viola Miglio, eds., Papers in Syntax, Syntax-Semantics Interface and Phonology,
63–88. College Park: University of Maryland Working Papers in Linguistics.
Legate, Julie Anne. 2003. Some interface properties of the phase. Linguistic Inquiry
34:506–516.
Levinson, Lisa. 2010. Arguments for pseudo-resultative predicates. Natural Language
& Linguistic Theory 28:135–182.
Liberman, Mark. 1975. The intonational system of English. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Liberman, Mark, and Alan Prince. 1977. On stress and linguistic rhythm. Linguistic
Inquiry 8:249–336.
Lieber, Rochelle. 1980. The organization of the lexicon. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Lieber, Rochelle. 1987. An Integrated Theory of Autosegmental Processes. Albany:
State University of New York Press.
Lieber, Rochelle. 1992. Deconstructing Morphology: Word Formation in Syntactic
Theory. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Lieber, Rochelle. 2010. Introducing Morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Lindquist, Hans. 2000. Livelier or more lively? Syntactic and contextual factors
influencing the comparison of disyllabic adjectives. In John M. Kirk, ed., Corpora
Galore: Analyses and Techniques in Describing English, Language and Computers:
Studies in Practical Linguistics 30, 125–132. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Link, Godehard. 1983. The logical analysis of plurals and mass terms: A lattice-
theoretical approach. In Rainer Bäuerle, Christoph Schwarze, and Arnim von Stechow,
eds., Meaning, Use and Interpretation of Language, 302–323. Berlin: Walter de
Gruyter.
Lomashvili, Leila, and Heidi Harley. 2011. Phases and templates in Georgian agreement.
Studia Linguistica 65, 233–267.
Longobardi, Giuseppe. 1992. In defense of the correspondence hypothesis: Island
effects and parasitic constructions in logical form. In C. T. James Huang and Robert
May, eds., Logical Structure and Linguistic Structure: Cross-Linguistic Perspectives,
149–196. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Lowenstamm, Jean. 2010. Derivational affixes as roots (phasal spellout meets English
stress shift). Ms., Université Paris-Diderot and CNRS.
Lynch, John, Malcolm Ross, and Terry Crowley. 2002. Typological overview. In John
Lynch, Malcolm Ross, and Terry Crowley, eds., The Oceanic Languages, 34–53.
Surrey: Curzon Press.
240 References
Mace, John. 2003. Persian Grammar. London: Routledge Curzon.
Maiden, Martin. 1991. Interactive Morphology: Metaphony in Italy. London: Routledge.
Maiden, Martin. 1992. Irregularity as a determinant of morphological change. Journal
of Linguistics 28:285–312.
Maiden, Martin. 2004a. Morphological autonomy and diachrony. Yearbook of
Morphology 2004:137–175.
Maiden, Martin. 2004b. When lexemes become allomorphs–-On the genesis of
suppletion. Folia Linguistica 38 (3–4):227–256.
Maiden, Martin, John Charles Smith, Maria Goldbach, and Marc-Olivier Hinzelin, ed.
2011. Morphological Autonomy: Perspectives from Romance Inflectional Morphology.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Marantz, Alec. 1988. Clitics, morphological merger, and the mapping to phonological
structure. In Michael Hammond and Michael Noonan, eds., Theoretical Morphology,
253–270. San Diego: Academic Press.
Marantz, Alec. 1989. Relations and configurations in Georgian. Ms., University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Marantz, Alec. 1991. Case and licensing. In German F. Westphal, Benjamin Ao, and
Hee-Rahk Chae, eds., Proceedings of the 8th Eastern States Conference on Linguistics,
234–253. Columbus: Ohio State University.
Marantz, Alec. 1992. What kind of pieces are inflectional morphemes? Paper presented
at the Berkeley Linguistics Society, February.
Marantz, Alec. 1994. A late note on late insertion. In Young-Suk Kim, Byung-
Choon Lee, Kyoung-Jae Lee, Hyun-KwonYang, and Jong-YurlYoon, eds., Explorations
in Generative Grammar: A Festschrift for Dong-Whee Yang, 396–413. Seoul:
Hankuk.
Marantz, Alec. 1995. “Cat” as a phrasal idiom. Ms., MIT.
Marantz, Alec. 1997. No escape from syntax: Don’t try morphological analysis in the
privacy of your own lexicon. In A. Dimitriadis, L. Siegel, C. Surek-Clark, and A.
Williams, eds., Proceedings of the 21st Annual Penn Linguistics Colloquium, 201–225.
Philadelphia: Penn Linguistics Club.
Marantz, Alec. 1999. The pieces of derivation. Handout, MIT.
Marantz, Alec. 2001. Words and things. Handout, MIT.
Marantz, Alec. 2007. Phases and words. In Sook-hee Choe, ed., Phases in the Theory
of Grammar, Seoul: Dong In Publisher.
Marantz, Alec. Forthcoming. Argument structure. Lingua.
Martin, Roger Andrew. 1996. A minimalist theory of PRO and control. Doctoral
dissertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Martin, Roger Andrew. 2001. Null case and the distribution of PRO. Linguistic Inquiry
32:141–166.
Martinez, Esther, ed. 1983. San Juan Pueblo Téwa Dictionary. Portales, NM: Bishop
Publishing Co. A production of the San Juan Pueblo Bilingual Program.
References 241
Marušič, Franc Lanko. 2009. Non-simultaneous spell-out in the clausal and nominal
domain. In Kleanthes K. Grohmann, ed., InterPhases: Phase-theoretic Investigations
of the Linguistic Interfaces, 151–181. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Marušič, Franc Lanko, Andrew Nevins, and William Badecker. Forthcoming. The
grammars of conjunction agreement in Slovenian. Syntax.
Marvà, Jeroni. 1968. Curs superior de gramàtica catalana. Barcelona: Barcino.
Marvin, Tatjana. 2002. Topics in the stress and syntax of words. Doctoral Dissertation,
MIT.
Mascaró, Joan. 1986. Morfologia. Barcelona: Enciclopèdia Catalana.
Mascaró, Joan. 2002a. El sistema vocàlic: Reducció vocàlica. In Joan Solà, Maria Rosa
Lloret, Joan Mascaró, and Manuel Pérez Saldanya, eds., Gramàtica del català contem-
porani, 89–123. Barcelona: Empúries.
Mascaró, Joan. 2002b. Morfologia: Aspectes generals. In Joan Solà, Maria Rosa Lloret,
Joan Mascaró, and Manuel Pérez Saldanya, eds., Gramàtica del català contemporani,
465–482. Barcelona: Empúries.
Mascaró, Joan. 2011. The realization of features in asymmetric agreement in DPs.
Snippets 23:11–12.
Matthews, Peter H. 1965.The inflectional component of a word-and-paradigm grammar.
Journal of Linguistics 1:139–171.
Matthews, Peter H. 1972. Inflectional Morphology: A Theoretical Study Based on
Aspects of Latin Verb Conjugation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Matushansky, Ora. 2001. The more the merrier: The syntax of synthetic and analytic
comparatives. Paper presented at GLOW 24, Braga, Portugal.
Matushansky, Ora. 2002. Movement of degree/degree of movement. Doctoral disserta-
tion, MIT. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy,
MIT.
Matushansky, Ora. 2008. On the attributive nature of superlatives. Syntax 11:26–90.
McCarthy, John J. 1981. A prosodic theory of nonconcatenative morphology. Linguistic
Inquiry 12:373–418.
McCarthy John, and Alan Prince. 1993. Prosodic morphology, I: Constraint interaction
and satisfaction. Ms. University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and Rutgers University,
New Brunswick.
McGinnis, Martha. 1996. Two kinds of blocking. In Hee-don Ahn, Myung-Yoon Kang,
Yong-Suck Kim, and Sookhee Lee, eds., Morphosyntax in Generative Grammar: Pro-
ceedings of the 1996 Seoul International Conference on Generative Grammar, 357–
368. Seoul: Hankuk.
McGinnis, Martha. 1998. Locality in A-movement. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
McGinnis, Martha. 2004. Lethal ambiguity. Linguistic Inquiry 35:47–95.
McGinnis, Martha. 2005. On markedness asymmetries in person and number. Lan-
guage 81:699–718.
McGinnis, Martha. 2008. Phi-feature competition in morphology and syntax. In Daniel
Harbour, David Adger, and Susana Béjar, eds., Phi-Theory: Phi-Features across
242 References
Modules and Interfaces, 155–184. Oxford Studies in Theoretical Linguistics. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Mithun, Marianne. 1988. Lexical categories and the evolution of number marking. In
Michael Hammond and Michael Noonan, eds., Theoretical Morphology: Approaches
in Modern Linguistics, 211–234. San Diego: Academic Press.
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 1998. (S)ase as an elsewhere causative and the syntactic nature of
words. Journal of Japanese Linguistics 16:67–110.
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 1999. Causatives. In Natsuko Tsujimura, ed., The Handbook of
Japanese Linguistics, 236–268. Oxford: Blackwell.
Moll, Francesc de B. 1968. Gramàtica catalana (referida especialment a les Illes
Balears). Palma de Mallorca: Editorial Moll.
Mondorf, Britta. 2002. The effect of prepositional complements on the choice of syn-
thetic or analytic comparatives. In Hubert Cuyckens and Günter Radden, eds., Perspec-
tives on Prepositions, 65–78. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Mondorf, Britta. 2003. Support for more-support. In Günter Rohdenburg and Britta
Mondorf, eds., Determinants of Grammatical Variation in English, 251–304. Topics in
English Linguistics 43. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Mondorf, Britta. 2007. Recalcitrant problems of comparative alternation and new
insights emerging from Internet data. In Marianne Hundt, Nadja Nesselhauf, and
Carolin Biewer, eds., Corpus Linguistics and the Web, 211–232. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Mondorf, Britta. 2009. More Support for More-Support: The Role of Processing Con-
straints on the Choice between Synthetic and Analytic Comparative Forms. Studies in
Language Variation 4. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Munn, Alan. 1992. A null operator analysis of ATB gaps. Linguistic Review 9:1–26.
Nash, Léa. 1994. On be and have in Georgian. In Heidi Harley and Colin Phillips, eds.,
MITWPL 22: The Morphology-Syntax Connection, 153–171. Cambridge, MA:
MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Nash, Léa. 1995. Portée argumentale et marquage casuel dans les langues SOV et dans les
langues ergatives: L’example du géorgien. Doctoral dissertation, Université de Paris 8.
Nevins, Andrew. 2002a. Fission without a license. Talk presented at Concordia
University, Montreal, November 15.
Nevins, Andrew. 2002b. When “we” disagrees in circumfixes. Handout from a talk
presented at LASSO 31, Los Angeles, October 4–6.
Nevins, Andrew. 2007. The representation of third person and its consequences for
person-case effects. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 25:273–313.
Nevins, Andrew. 2011a. Convergent evidence for rolling up Catalan adjectives. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 42:339–345.
Nevins, Andrew. 2011b. Marked targets versus marked triggers and impoverishment of
the dual. Linguistic Inquiry 42:413–444.
Nevins, Andrew. 2011c. Phonologically conditioned allomorph selection. In Marc van
Oostendorp, Colin J. Ewen, Elizabeth Hume, and Keren Rice, eds., Blackwell Com-
panion to Phonology, 2357–2382. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell.
References 243
Nevins, Andrew, and Jeffrey K. Parrott. 2010. Variable rules meet Impoverishment
theory: Patterns of agreement leveling in English varieties. Lingua 120:1135–1159.
Nevins, Andrew, and Filomena Sandalo. 2011. Markedness and morphotactics in
Kadiwéu [+participant] agreement. Morphology 21:351–378.
Newell, Heather. 2005. Bracketing paradoxes and particle verbs: A late adjunction
analysis. In Sylvia Blaho, Luis Vicente, and Erik Schoorlemmer, eds., Proceedings of
ConSOLE XIII (2004, Tromsø), 249–272. Leiden: LUCL.Noyer.
Noyer, Rolf. 1992. Features, positions, and affixes in autonomous morphological struc-
ture. Doctoral dissertation, MIT. Revised version published by Garland, New York,
1997.
Ogihara, Toshiyuki. 1995. The semantics of tense in embedded clauses. Linguistic
Inquiry 26:663–679.
Ogihara, Toshiyuki. 1996. Tense, Attitude, and Scope. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic
Publishers.
Ogihara, Toshiyuki. 2007. Tense and aspect in truth-conditional semantics. Lingua
117:392–418.
Oltra-Massuet, Isabel. 1999. On the constituent structure of Catalan verbs. In Karlos
Arregi, Vivian Lin, Cornelia Krause, and Benjamin Bruening, eds., MITWPL 33:
Papers in Morphology and Syntax, Cycle One, 279–322. Cambridge, MA: MITWPL,
Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Oltra-Massuet, Isabel. 2000. On the notion of theme vowel: A new approach to Catalan
verbal morphology. MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics 19. Cambridge, MA:
MITWPL, Department of Lingustics and Philosophy, MIT.
Oltra-Massuet, Isabel, and Karlos Arregi. 2005. Stress-by-structure in Spanish. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 36:43–84.
Orgun, Cemil Orhan. 1996. Sign-based morphology and phonology: With special
attention to Optimality Theory. Doctoral dissertation, University of California,
Berkeley.
Ormazabal, Javier, and Juan Romero. 2007. The object agreement constraint. Natural
Language & Linguistic Theory 25:315–347.
Pater, Joe. 2000. Non-uniformity in English secondary stress: The role of ranked and
lexically specific constraints. Phonology 17:237–274.
Pater, Joe. 2010. Morpheme-specific phonology: Constraint indexation and inconsis-
tency resolution. In Steve Parker, ed., Phonological Argumentation: Essays on Evi-
dence and Motivation, 123–154. London: Equinox.
Perea, M. Pilar. 1999. Compleció i ordenació de “La flexió verbal en els dialectes
catalans” d’A. M. Alcover i F. de B. Moll. Barcelona: Institut d’Estudis Catalans. CD
edition.
Perea, M. Pilar. 2002. Flexió verbal regular. In Joan Solà, Maria Rosa Lloret, Joan
Mascaró, and Manuel Pérez Saldanya, eds., Gramàtica del català contemporani, 583–
646. Barcelona: Empúries.
Pérez Saldanya, Manuel. 1996. Gramaticalització i reanàlisi: El cas del pretèrit perfet
perifràstic en català. In Axel Schönberger and Tilbert Dídac Stegmann, eds., Actes del
244 References
Desè Col·loqui Internacional de Llengua i Literatura Catalanes, vol. 3, 71–107.
Barcelona: Publicacions de l’Abadia de Montserrat.
Pérez Saldanya, Manuel. 1998. Del llatí al català: Morfosintaxi verbal històrica.
València: Universitat de València.
Pérez Saldanya, Manuel. 2002. Les relacions temporals i aspectuals. In Joan Solà,
Maria Rosa Lloret, Joan Mascaró, and Manuel Pérez Saldanya, eds., Gramàtica del
català contemporani, 2567–2662. Barcelona: Empúries.
Perlmutter, David. 1971. Deep and Surface Structure Constraints in Syntax. NewYork:
Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Pesetsky, David. 1979. Russian morphology and lexical theory. Ms., MIT. http://web.
mit.edu/linguistics/www/pesetsky/russmorph.pdf.
Pesetsky, David. 1985. Morphology and logical form. Linguistic Inquiry 16:193–246.
Pesetsky, David. 1992. Zero syntax II: An essay on infinitives. Ms., MIT.
Pesetsky, David, and Esther Torrego. 2007. The syntax of valuation and the interpret-
ability of features. In Simin Karimi, Vida Samiian, and Wendy Wilkins, eds., Phrasal
and Clausal Architecture, 262–294. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Picallo, M. Carme. 2008. Gender and number in Romance. Lingue & Linguaggio
7:47–61.
Pinker, Steven. 1999. Words and Rules: The Ingredients of Language. New York:
Perseus Books.
Pinker, Steven, and Michael Ullman. 2002. The past and future of the past tense. Trends
in Cognitive Sciences 6:456–463.
Plag, Ingo. 1998. Morphological haplology in a constraint-based morpho-phonology.
In Wolfgang Kehrein and Richard Wiese, eds., Phonology and Morphology of the
Germanic Languages, 199–215. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Plag, Ingo. 1999. Morphological Productivity. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Poletto, Cecilia. 2000. The Higher Functional Field. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pomino, Natascha, and Eva-Maria Remberger. 2008. Distributed Morphology and
minimalist syntax of Spanish ir. Ms., Universität Konstanz.
Poser, William J. 1992. Blocking of phrasal constructions by lexical items. In Ivan A.
Sag and Anna Szabolcsi, eds., Lexical Matters, 111–130. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Prince, Alan. 1983. Relating to the grid. Linguistic Inquiry 14:19–100.
Prince, Alan, and Paul Smolensky. [1993] 2004. Optimality Theory: Constraint
Interaction in Generative Grammar. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Pullum, Geoffrey K., and Arnold M. Zwicky. 1991. A misconceived approach to
morphology. In Dawn Bates, ed., Proceedings of the West Coast Conference on Formal
Linguistics, 10, 387–398. Stanford, CA: CSLI, WCCFL.
Pylkkänen, Liina. 2008. Introducing Arguments. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik. 1985. A
Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language. New York: Longman.
Radkevich, Nina. 2010. On location: The structure of case and adpositions. Doctoral
dissertation, thesis, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
References 245
Rasom, Sabrina. 2008. Lazy concord in the Central Ladin feminine DP: A case study
on the interaction between morphosyntax and semantics. Doctoral dissertation,
Università degli Studi di Padova.
Redden, James. 1966. Walapai II: Morphology. International Journal of American
Linguistics 23:141–163.
Rett, Jessica. 2008. Degree modification in natural language. Doctoral dissertation,
Rutgers University.
Rezac, Milan. 2003. The fine structure of cyclic agree. Syntax 6:156–182.
Rezac, Milan. 2008a. The forms of dative displacement: From Basauri to Itelmen. In
Xabier Artiagoitia and Joseba Andoni Lakarra, eds., Gramatika Jaietan: Festschrift for
Patxi Goenaga, 709–724. Bilbo: Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea.
Rezac, Milan. 2008b. Phi-Agree and theta-related case. In Daniel Harbour, David
Adger, and Susana Béjar, eds., Phi Theory: Phi-Features across Modules and Interfaces,
83–129. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ringe, Don. 2006. From Proto-Indo-European to Proto-Germanic. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Ritter, Elizabeth. 1997. Agreement in the Arabic prefix conjugation: Evidence for a non-
linear approach to person, number and gender features. In Leslie Blair, Christine Burns,
and Lorna Rowsell, eds., Proceedings of the Canadian Linguistic Association Conference,
191–202. Calgary: Calgary Working Papers in Linguistics, University of Calgary.
Rix, Helmut, Martin Kümmel, Thomas Zehnder, Reiner Lipp, and Brigitte Schirmer.
2001. LIV: Lexikon der indogermanischen Verben: die Wurzeln und ihre
Primärstammbildungen. 2nd. Wiesbaden: Reichert.
Rose, Sharon. 2007. Chaha (Gurage) morphology. In Alan S. Kaye, ed., Morphologies
of Africa and Asia, vol. 1, 403–428. Winona Lake, IN: Eisenbrauns.
Ross, John. 1967. Constraints on variables in syntax. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Ross, Malcolm. 2002. Mussau. In John Lynch, Malcolm Ross, and Terry Crowley, eds.,
The Oceanic Languages, 148–166. Surrey: Curzon Press.
Sadock, Jerrold M. 1991. Autolexical Syntax: A Theory of Parallel Grammatical
Representations. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Salanova, Andrés Pablo. 2004. Subtractive morphology in Mêbengokre. Ms., MIT.
Samek-Lodovici, Vieri. 2002. Agreement Impoverishment under Subject Inversion: A
crosslinguistic analysis. In Gisbert Fanselow and Caroline Féry, eds., Resolving
Conflicts in Grammar. Linguistische Berichte Sonderhaft 11:49–82.
Sanchís Guarner, Manuel. 1950. Gramàtica valenciana. València: Torre. Cited from
the facsimile edited by Antoni Ferrando. Barcelona: Alta Fulla, 1993.
Sauerland, Uli. 2003. Intermediate adjunction with A-movement. Linguistic Inquiry
34:308–314.
Scatton, Ernest. 1984. A Reference Grammar of Modern Bulgarian. Columbus, OH:
Slavica Publishers.
Schäfer, Florian. 2008. The Syntax of (Anti-)Causatives: External Arguments in
Change-of-State Contexts. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
246 References
Scheer, Tobias. 2008. Spell out your sister! In Natasha Abner and Jason Bishop, eds.,
Proceedings of the 27th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics (WCCFL),
379–387. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Schindler, Jochem. 1972. L’Apophonie des noms-racine indo-européens. Bulletin de la
Sociéte de Linguistique 67:31–38.
Schindler, Jochem. 1975a. L’Apophonie des thèmes indo-européens en -r/-n. Bulletin
de la Sociéte de Linguistique 70:1–10.
Schindler, Jochem. 1975b. Zum ablaut der neutralen s-Stämme des Indogermanischen.
In Helmut Rix, ed., Flexion und Wortbildung, 259–267. Wiesbaden: Reichert.
Schoorlemmer, Erik. 2009. Agreement, dominance and doubling: The morphosyntax
of DP. Doctoral dissertation, University of Leiden.
Schwarzschild, Roger, and Karina Wilkinson. 2002. Quantifiers in comparatives: A
semantics of degree based on intervals. Natural Language Semantics 10:1–41.
Schweizer, Bruno. 2008. Zimbrische Gesamtgrammatik. Stuttgart: Franz SteinerVerlag.
Sedighi, Anousha. 2005. Animacy: The overlooked feature in Persian. In Marie-Odile
Junker, Martha McGinnis, and Yves Roberge, eds., Proceedings of the 2004 Annual
Conference of the Canadian Linguistic Association. http://homes.chass.utoronto.
ca/~cla-acl/actes2004/actes2004.html.
Seidenberg, Mark S., and Laura M. Gonnerman. 2000. Explaining derivational mor-
phology as the convergence of codes. Trends in Cognitive Sciences 4:353–361.
Seuren, Pieter A. M. 1984. The comparative revisited. Journal of Semantics 3:109–
141.
Sharvit, Yael, and Penka Stateva. 2002. Superlative expressions, context, and focus.
Linguistics and Philosophy 25:453–505.
Shlonsky, Ur. 2004. The form of Semitic noun phrases. Lingua 114 (2): 1465–1526.
Siddiqi, Daniel. 2009. Syntax within the Word: Economy, Allomorphy, and Argument
Selection in Distributed Morphology. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Siegel, Dorothy. 1974. Topics in English morphology. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Siewierska, Anna. 2004. Person. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Simon, Dylan A., Gwyneth Lewis, and Alec Marantz. 2012. Disambiguating form and
lexical frequency effects in MEG responses using homonyms. Language and Cognitive
Processes 27:275–287.
Sproat, Richard. 1985. On deriving the lexicon. Doctoral dissertation, MIT.
Stateva, Penka. 2000a. In defense of the movement theory of superlatives. In Rebecca
Daly and Anastasia Riehl, eds., Proceedings of the Eastern States Conference on Lin-
guistics 1999, 215–226. Ithaca, NY: CLC Publications.
Stateva, Penka. 2000b. Towards a superior theory of superlatives. In Christine Czinglar,
Katharina Köhler, Erica Thrift, Erik Jan van der Torre, and Malte Zimmermann, eds.,
ConSole VIII Proceedings: Proceedings of the Eighth Conference of the Student Orga-
nization of Linguistics in Europe, 313–326. Leiden: SOLE.
Stateva, Penka. 2002. How different are different degree constructions? Doctoral dis-
sertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
References 247
Stateva, Penka. 2003. Superlative more. In Robert B. Young and Yuping Zhou, eds.,
Proceedings of Semantics and Linguistic Theory (SALT) 13, 276–291. Ithaca, NY: CLC
Publications, Department of Linguistics, Cornell University.
Steriade, Donca. 1999. Lexical conservatism in French adjectival liaison. In B. Bullock,
M. Authier, and L. Reed, eds., Formal Perspectives in Romance Linguistics, 243–270.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Stockall, Linnea, and Alec Marantz. 2006. A single route, full decomposition model
of morphological complexity: MEG evidence. Mental Lexicon 7 (1):85–123.
Stump, Gregory. 2001. Inflectional Morphology: A Theory of Paradigm Structure.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Svenonius, Peter. 2008. The position of adjectives and other phrasal modifiers in the
decomposition of DP. In Louise McNally and Chris Kennedy, eds., Adjectives and
Adverbs: Syntax, Semantics, and Discourse, 16–42. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Svenonius, Peter. 2012a. Look both ways: Outward-looking allomorphy in Icelandic
participles. lingbuzz/001519.
Svenonius, Peter. 2012b. Spanning. Ms., University of Tromsø. lingBuzz/001501,
http://ling.auf.net/lingbuzz.
De Swart, Henriëtte. 1998. Aspect shift and coercion. Natural Language & Linguistic
Theory 16:347–38.
Takahashi, Masahiko. 2010. Case, phases, and nominative/accusative conversion in
Japanese. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 19:319–355.
Tewa Tales. 1982. Téwa Pehtsiye: Tewa Tales, San Juan Dialect. A production of the
San Juan Pueblo Bilingual Program.
Todolí, Júlia. 1992. Variants dels pronoms febles de 3a persona al País Valencià: Regles
fonosintàctiques i morfológiques subjacents. Zeitschrift für Katalanistik 5:137–160.
Tourabi, Abderrezzak. 2002. Arabic subject-verb agreement affixes: Morphology, spec-
ification and Spell-Out. InAniko Csirmaz, Zhiqiang Li,Andrew Nevins, OlgaVaysman,
and Michael Wagner, eds., MITWPL 42: Phonological Answers. Cambridge, MA:
MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT.
Trommer, Jochen. 2008. Direction marking and case in Menominee. In Daniel Harbour,
David Adger, and Susana Béjar, eds., Phi Theory: Phi Features across Modules and
Interfaces, 221–250. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
University of Latvia. 1999. Latvian Grammar (online). http://www.ailab.lv/valoda/
v1.htm.
Vallduví, Enric. 1988. Sobre el perfet perifràstic del català. In Philip D. Rasico and
Curt Wittlin, eds., Actes del Cinquè Col·loqui d’Estudis Catalans a Nord-Amèrica,
85–98. Barcelona: Publicacions de l’Abadia de Montserrat.
Viaplana, Joaquim, Maria-Rosa Lloret, Maria-Pilar Perea, and Esteve Clua. 2007.
Corpus Oral Dialectal (COD). Barcelona: Departament de Filologia Catalana, Univer-
sitat de Barcelona.
Volpe, Mark Joseph. 2005. Japanese morphology and its theoretical consequences:
Derivational Morphology in Distributed Morphology. Doctoral dissertation, Stony
Brook University.
248 References
Watanabe, Akira. 2012. Person-number interaction: Impoverishment and natural
classes. Ms., University of Tokyo.
Watkins, Laurel J. 1984. A Grammar of Kiowa. With the assistance of Parker McKen-
zie. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press.
Wheeler, Max. 1998. Catalan. In Martin Harris and Nigel Vincent, eds., The Romance
Languages, 170–208. London and New York: Routledge.
Wiese, Richard. 1996a. Phonological versus morphological rules: On German umlaut
and ablaut. Journal of Linguistics 32:113–135.
Wiese, Richard. 1996b. The Phonology of German. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Williams, Edwin S. 2006. Dumping lexicalism. In Gillian Ramchand and Charles
Reiss, eds., Oxford Handbook of Linguistic Interfaces, 353–381. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Wolf, Matthew. 2006. For an autosegmental theory of mutation. In L. Bateman, M.
O’Keefe, E. Reilly, and A. Werle, eds., University of Massachusetts Occasional Papers
in Linguistics 32: Papers in Optimality Theory III. Amherst: GLSA, University of
Massachusetts.
Wood, Jim. 2012. Icelandic morphosyntax and argument structure. Doctoral disserta-
tion, New York University.
Wunderlich, Dieter. 2012. Polarity and constraints on paradigmatic distinctness. In
Jochen Trommer, ed., The Morphology and Phonology of Exponence, 160–194. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 1999. Modal verbs must be raising verbs. In Sonya Bird, Andrew
Carnie, Jason D. Haugen, and Peter Norquest, eds., Proceedings of the 18th West Coast
Conference on Formal Linguistics (WCCFL), 599–612. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Press.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2011. Tense and aspect in English infinitives. Ms., University of
Connecticut. Storrs. http://wurmbrand.uconn.edu/Susi/Infinitives.html.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2012. Agreement: Looking up or looking down? Lecture given in
Agreement seminar, MIT, March 2012. http://wurmbrand.uconn.edu/Papers/MIT-2012.
pdf.
Wurmbrand, Susi. Forthcoming. QR and selection: Covert evidence for phasehood. In
Stefan Keine and Shayne Sloggett, eds., Proceedings of the North Eastern Linguistics
Society (NELS) Annual Meeting 42. Amherst: GLSA, University of Massachusetts.
http://wurmbrand.uconn.edu/Papers/NELS42.pdf.
Wurmbrand, Susi, Artemis Alexiadou, and Elena Anagnostopoulou. 2012. Disappear-
ing phases: Evidence from raising constructions cross-linguistically. Paper presented
at the 5th Conference on Syntax, Phonology and Language Analysis (SinFonIJA),
Vienna, Austria, September 2012.
Yang, Charles. 2002. Knowledge and Learning in Natural Language. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
de Yrizar, Pedro. 1992. Morfología del Verbo Auxiliar Vizcaíno: Estudio Dialec-
tológico. Bilbo: Euskaltzaindia. http://www.euskaltzaindia.net/mvav.
References 249
de Yrizar, Pedro. 2002. Morfología del Verbo Auxiliar Souletino: Estudio Dialec-
tológico. Bilbo: Euskaltzaindia. http://www.euskaltzaindia.net/mvav.
Yu, Alan. 2004. The morphology and phonology of infixation. Doctoral dissertation,
University of California, Berkeley.
Zubiri, Ilari, and Entzi Zubiri. 2012. Euskal gramatika osoa. Bilbo: Ikasbook.
Zwarts, Joost, Petra Hendriks, and Helen de Hoop. 2005. Comparative paths to an
optimal interpretation. In Emar Maier, Corien Bary, and Janneke Huitink, eds., Pro-
ceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 9, 553–563. Groningen: Groningen University.
Zwicky, Arnold M. 1977. Hierarchies of person. In W. A. Beach, S. E. Fox, and S.
Philosoph, eds., Papers from the Thirteenth Meeting, Chicago Linguistics Society 13,
714–733. Chicago: University of Chicago.
Zwicky, Arnold M. 1985. Rules of allomorphy and syntax-phonology interactions.
Journal of Linguistics 21:431–436.
Karlos Arregi University of Chicago
Jonathan David Bobaljik University of Connecticut
Eulàlia Bonet Centre de Lingüística Teòrica, Universitat Autönoma
de Barcelona
David Embick University of Pennsylvania
Daniel Harbour Queen Mary University of London
Heidi Harley University of Arizona
Alec Marantz New York University/NYU Abu Dhabi
Tatjana Marvin Univerza v Ljubljani
Ora Matushansky CNRS/Université Paris VIII/UiL OTS/Universiteit Utrecht
Martha McGinnis University of Victoria
Andrew Nevins University College London
Rolf Noyer University of Pennsylvania
Isabel Oltra-Massuet Universitat Rovira i Virgili
Mercedes Tubino Blanco Universidad de Sevilla
Susi Wurmbrand University of Connecticut
Contributors
Author Index
Anderson, Stephen, 19, 41, 45, 49–50,
52–53, 122, 159–162, 165
Aronoff, Mark, 122–123, 164–165
Arregi, Karlos, 18, 54, 76, 201–202,
205–206, 208, 214, 217–218, 220
Baker, Mark, 113, 146, 221
Béjar, Susana, 39–44, 49, 52, 57, 141,
148
Bermúdez-Otero, Ricardo, 132, 164, 182
Bobaljik, Jonathan David, 15, 19, 46,
59–61, 63, 65, 68, 73, 75, 77, 96–98,
114, 132, 186–188, 190, 197
Bonet, Eulàlia, 17, 19, 44, 129, 134,
173, 179, 183–184, 205, 207
Calabrese, Andrea, 16, 156–158
Carstairs-McCarthy, Andrew, 132, 164
Chomsky, Noam, 44–45, 79–80, 95–96,
128, 140, 159, 164, 185, 191, 196,
199, 215, 221
Corbett, Greville, 135, 137–138, 215
Embick, David, 4, 8, 10–12, 14, 18, 46,
59–60, 62, 64, 66–75, 77, 92, 96–100,
115, 117–118, 122–124, 126, 129,
132, 151–152, 154–155, 164–165,
177, 182–183, 187, 196–197,
207–209, 220
Hale, Kenneth, 138
Halle, Morris, 12, 15, 21–22, 29–30,
36–37, 39–40, 43, 46, 49, 53–54, 57,
75, 79–83, 92, 95–97, 113–114,
117–118, 122–124, 126, 132, 135,
140, 149, 151–152, 154, 161, 163,
165, 172–173, 177, 182–183, 185,
187, 196–197, 199–201, 207, 218
Harbour, Daniel, 19, 41, 129, 134, 136,
138, 142–144, 147–150, 183
Harley, Heidi, 19, 40–42, 44, 49, 51–56,
58, 100, 103, 105–106, 115, 118–119,
128–129, 133–135, 137–139,
148–149, 219
Harris, James, 173, 205
Hockett, Charles, 159
Idsardi, William, 21, 25–27, 35, 81, 92
Kager, Rene, 88
Kayne, Richard S., 189
Kiparsky, Paul, 21, 37, 45, 68, 82, 93,
152, 163, 199, 218
Labov, William, 1, 239
Maiden, Martin, 19, 158, 165
Marantz, Alec, 6, 10, 12, 15, 39, 43, 49,
53–54, 57–58, 60, 64, 75, 77, 79–80,
83, 89, 95–96, 98–102, 105–106, 109,
113–115, 117, 122, 124, 149, 151,
161, 164–165, 172, 185, 197,
199–201, 207, 218
Marvin, Tatjana, 80, 92, 113–114, 164
Matthews, Peter H., 165
McCarthy, John, 60–61, 65, 85, 158
McGinnis, Martha, 40, 42–44, 46, 54,
58, 183
254 Author Index
Nevins, Andrew, 4, 9, 54–56, 136, 148,
169–170, 180, 184, 201–202,
205–208, 212, 214, 217–220
Noyer, Rolf, 8, 15, 39, 46, 54, 59–60,
67, 69, 74, 115, 118, 135–136, 140,
142, 149, 151, 154, 208–209, 220
Pesetsky, David, 60, 64–65, 68, 113,
191–192, 195
Pinker, Steven, 165
Poser, William, 75
Prince, Alan, 60–61, 65, 85, 92–93, 176
Pullum, Geoffrey, 165
Pylkkänen, Liina, 219
Rezac, Milan, 204–205
Ritter, Elizabeth, 40–42, 44, 54–56, 135,
137–139, 148
Siddiqi, Daniel, 11, 132, 165
Sproat, Richard, 60, 64, 75
Steriade, Donca, 93
Stump, Gregory, 161, 165
Svenonius, Peter, 75, 97–98, 164–165,
179, 212
Trommer, Jochen, 136
Williams, Edwin, 68
Wolf, Matthew, 154, 163
Wood, Jim, 101
Wurmbrand, Susi, 19, 132, 185,
189–194, 197
Yu, Alan, 154
Zwicky, Arnold M., 46, 165, 173
Subject Index
Absolutive, 202–206, 217, 219
Accentuation, 21–25, 27, 29, 31–33, 35,
37
Accusative, 23, 143–144, 199–200
Acrostatic (stem), 21, 23–24, 26–29, 31–37
Addressee (feature), 41–42
Adjectival passive, 109–110
Adjective, 32, 59–63, 65–66, 69–78, 80,
88, 90, 98, 102, 104–105, 109–112,
114, 115, 152, 154, 169–170, 172,
173, 177–178, 187, 195–196, 200,
209, 213–217, 220, 221
nonscalar adjective, 66, 70–74
norm-related AP, 66–67, 69–70
scalar adjective, 66, 69–70
Adverb, 65, 67–73, 75, 78, 173, 196
aspect adverbial, 71–73
manner adverbial, 70–71
Affix Hopping, 59–60, 62–63, 74
Affixless theories, 151–152, 159–162
Agree (operation), 39–45, 52, 57, 168,
170, 194, 202, 215–217
Agreement, 5–6, 10, 18, 34, 36, 39–58,
138, 143–144, 146–148, 150, 154,
158, 161, 167–177, 179–184, 202,
205, 209, 213–217, 220
agreement at PF, 168–173
agreement in syntax, 168–169, 202
agreement in two stages, 179–182, 214
agreement weakening, 171–172
closest conjunct agreement, 213, 217
AGRf (constraint), 169–170, 180
Allomorphy, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11–15, 17, 19,
95–103, 105, 107, 109, 111–113,
115, 155–157, 161, 163–165, 172,
177, 187–188, 197, 200, 203, 219
Allosemy, 97, 101–106, 108–114
Alpha exponent, 136, 140–142
Analytic, 1–3, 5, 7–12, 16–18, 29, 59,
61–62, 64–67, 69–78, 127
Animacy, 41, 46, 143–144, 147–148
Animacy constraint, 143
Aorist, 33, 45–46, 50
Applicative, 143–144, 147
Aspect, 6, 9, 11–12, 40, 43, 45–46, 51,
56, 67, 71–73, 112, 123, 149, 151,
161, 165, 185, 191–193, 195
Aspect adverbial, 73
Aspects of the Theory of Syntax, 95
Atomic, 136, 142, 144, 146, 149
Auxiliary, 1–3, 6, 8, 12–19, 54, 58, 154,
202–205, 219
future auxiliary, 3, 19
Axiom of extension (set theory),
138
BAP. See Basic Accentuation Principle
Basic Accentuation Principle, 22–23
Blocking, 39, 42, 50, 53, 65, 69–71, 74,
99, 151, 161, 199–200
Bounded, 136–137, 170
Bracket Erasure, 196
Bracketing paradox, 64–65, 68, 77
Causative, 101–102, 106–107, 109, 119
adversative causative, 107
lexical causative, 106–107
syntactic causative, 101–102, 106–107
256 Subject Index
Class features, 46, 58, 117, 126, 129,
134, 142
Clitic, 41, 43–45, 49, 56–58, 128,
143–144, 150, 201–208, 211, 217,
219
clitic movement, 41, 44–45, 49, 58
pronominal clitic, 204
Comparative, 10, 18, 19, 60–78,
186–189, 195–197
Competing grammars, 4–5, 10
CONC(ORD) (constraint), 180
Concord, 58, 167–171, 173–183
lazy concord, 167, 181–182
Conjunctive (verb form), 47
Contextual neutralization, 202, 204, 206,
208, 211, 213
Contextual restriction, 200–201,
206–208, 213
Contextual specificity, 201–202, 206,
208, 211–212
Control, 189–193, 195, 197
Coordinate Structure Constraint, 215
Cophonologies, 133, 175–176
Cyclicity, 187
cycle, 19, 30–31, 33, 37, 82, 88, 92,
96, 114, 117, 118, 126, 128, 134,
185, 187–189, 197
cyclic affix, 32–33, 85
cyclic rule, 114, 185, 192
non-cyclic affix, 32–36
non-cyclic rule, 22, 30–31, 35
Dative, 23, 41, 43–45, 49, 51–56, 58,
143–144, 202–208, 217
Dative doubling, 204, 205, 208, 219
Default exponence, 16
Definite article, 77, 173, 201, 208–218,
219, 220, 221
Derivation (syntactic/phonological), 5,
10–11, 13, 15, 18, 32–33, 35, 42, 45,
50, 57, 59, 61–63, 65–67, 70, 73–74,
77, 79–80, 83, 85, 87, 95–96, 98,
104–106, 117, 125–129, 131–132,
139, 182, 185, 187–188, 190
Derivational morphology, 68, 100, 103,
118, 123–125
Differential object marking, 147–148
Discontinuous bleeding, 39
Dissociated morpheme, 14, 126
Domains, 30–31, 37, 39, 49, 51, 53, 57,
80, 95–99, 101, 103, 105, 107, 109,
111–115, 128, 131, 140, 178, 185,
187–189, 191, 193, 195–197,
208–209, 213, 215, 217, 220
Domain Suspension, 185–186, 188–190,
192–193, 195–196
Do-support, 8, 18, 159
DP, 6, 11, 68, 77, 130, 134, 167–170,
172–174, 178–180, 182–183, 191
Dual, 18, 23, 42, 56, 133, 136–139, 145
Dynamic phasehood, 190, 197
Echo vowel, 123–124, 126–127, 131
ECM, 189–193, 195, 197
Edge Marking Rule, 25, 81
Elative, 32, 69
Elsewhere Principle, 14–16, 19, 27, 45,
49–50, 53, 123, 130, 163, 187–188,
199–203, 205–206, 208, 211–212
End Rule Right, 31, 33, 37
Ergative, 43, 45–46, 54, 202–205
Ergative displacement/metathesis, 205
Exceptionality, 175–176
Exclusive (first person), 42, 136–137, 139
EXTAGRf (constraint), 169–170, 180
Extrametricality, 22, 30, 92–93
extrametricalizing affix, 31, 35–37
Features, 1, 5–8, 10–12, 14, 16, 18–19,
39–54, 56–58, 61, 67, 74, 95–97,
112, 117, 126, 129, 134–140,
142–144, 148–149, 160–162, 164,
168–170, 172–173, 175–176,
178–179, 181, 183, 194–195,
199–202
bivalence, 41, 135–137, 139–145,
147–149
privativity, 135–136, 139, 142,
148–149
valence, 135
values, 136, 139–140, 142, 149, 194,
200, 207, 209, 214–216
Fission, 39–41, 43, 45–51, 53–58, 126
Fusion, 49, 51, 126, 128, 197
Subject Index 257
Gender, 41, 68, 109, 135, 137, 139,
141–143, 145, 147–149, 167–168,
172–174, 177–183
Genitive, 23, 199–200
Goal (Agree), 215–216, 221
Go-support, 8, 14–15, 18
Grade (vowel alternation), 21, 23, 33
Grammaticalization, 2, 15, 17
Greater paucal, 136–138, 149
Grid Mark Deletion, 30–31, 37
Group (feature), 41–47, 49, 52, 55–56,
58, 149
Head-movement, 59, 65, 67, 69, 74, 209
Homophony, 3, 15, 103, 115
Hysterokinetic (stem), 22–29, 31–32,
35–36
Idioms, 97, 105–106
Impoverishment, 2, 5, 9, 19, 41, 44–45,
49, 51, 55, 126, 181, 201–202, 207,
208
Inclusive (1st person), 42, 56, 136–139
Incorporation, 1, 124, 145–146, 148,
150
Infinitive, 1, 7–9, 11–12, 17–18, 156,
189–191, 193, 197
Inflectional morphology, 68, 118, 125,
159
Inhibition, 16
Labovian variability, 1. See also
Optionality
Last Resort, 62, 190, 197
Late Insertion, 2, 16, 60, 76, 129, 177,
182–183
Lexical Conservatism, 93
Lexically indexed constraints, 175–176,
183
Linear order, 133, 186, 201, 202, 205,
208
Local Dislocation, 59–61, 63–65, 69, 71,
73, 75–77
Locality, 8, 57, 95–103, 105–113, 115,
125, 132, 151, 153–158, 160–164,
185, 187–190, 192
Lowering, 59, 63–65, 73, 76, 126, 202
Main Stress Rule, 81
Mass concord, 168, 177–179, 182
Mass/count, 177–179
MAX (constraint), 180–181
Mesostatic (stem), 21, 23–24, 26–29,
31–32, 34–37
Metaphony, 157–158
Metrical Alignment, 86
Metrical Consistency, 86–87, 90
Metrical well-formedness, 86–87
Mood, 6, 11–12, 40, 45–47, 50–51, 56,
128, 191, 193–194, 197
Morpheme Interaction Conjecture,
155–156
Morpheme/Morpheme Rules, 155–158,
161, 163–164
Morphemes, 2, 15, 17, 19, 22, 24–25,
27–28, 34–36, 59, 62–63, 86–88,
95–97, 101, 113–115, 117–118, 126,
129, 131, 139, 151–165, 185, 203,
208
Morphological Merger, 59, 61, 63, 65,
73, 75, 77
Morphophonological Locus, 153, 157,
159–160, 162
Morphophonological Rules, 117–118,
155
Morphophonology, 115, 124, 151,
162–163, 196
Morphosemantics, 136
Morphosyntactic Feature Specification,
200–201, 206, 213
Motion auxiliary, 2, 13–17
Multispeaker (feature), 41–42, 44–45,
49, 55–58
NOFEATS (constraint), 169–171,
174–176
Nominalization, 32, 82, 99, 107–109
Nominative, 23, 41, 43, 45–46, 53, 55,
57–58, 199–200
Norm-relatedness, 66, 69–70, 77–78
Number, 2, 21, 23, 27, 39–45, 47–50,
52–58, 68, 75, 77, 96, 109, 117, 120,
129–130, 133, 135–143, 145–149,
156–157, 163, 167–168, 171–172,
177, 181, 183, 201, 209
258 Subject Index
Obviative, 57
Optative, 45, 47–48, 50, 58
Optimality Theory, 79, 169, 175
Optionality, 2, 4–5, 78, 164. See also
Labovian variability
Paradigm leveling, 2, 16–17
Participant, 40–47, 57, 139, 143–148, 150
Passive, 111, 112, 128, 191, 219
Perfect, 3–4, 18, 43, 45, 118, 195
past perfect, 1–5, 16
present perfect, 3–4
Person, 18, 39–47, 49–58, 67, 72,
135–150, 152, 156, 158, 205
Person-case constraint, 136, 143–144,
147–148
Phase, 16, 19, 45, 49, 55, 57–58, 79–85,
88–89, 91–92, 93, 96, 98–102,
104–109, 112–115, 126, 128–129,
131, 133, 164, 186, 189–192,
194–195, 197
Phase Impenetrability Condition, 80
Phonology-Free Syntax (principle of),
213
Plural, 3, 5, 33, 36, 39–44, 46–58, 114,
132–134, 136–139, 141–142, 152,
161, 167, 170, 172–174, 176–177,
181–184, 204
Polysemy, 103–106, 115
Portmanteau morphology, 128, 188,
196–197
Postsyntactic operations, 76. See also
Fission; Fusion; Impoverishment;
Local Dislocation; Morphological
Merger; Readjustment Rules
Prespecification, 25, 27–28, 32–33, 35
Primary stress, 79, 82, 85–87
Probe (agree), 39–40, 42–44, 57,
215–216, 221
Prosodically-driven operations, 126
Prosodic phrase, 171–173, 177–179,
181–183
Proterokinetic (stem), 22, 24–25, 29–32,
36–37
Q (abstract morpheme), 95–98
Quadral (non-existence of), 137–138
Quantifier Raising (QR), 113, 185,
189–190, 195, 197
Radical Interpretability, 195
Raising (A-movement), 189–193, 195,
197
Readjustment Rules, 11–12, 100, 117,
122–123, 126–128, 130–131, 132,
133
Reduplication, 64–65, 154, 164, 205
Retraction Rule, 26
Rhythm Rule, 92–93
Roots, 2, 5, 10–12, 17, 33, 36–37,
60–61, 80, 97, 99–100, 102–107,
109–112, 115, 117–118, 124–126,
129–130, 134, 155, 160, 177,
182–183, 188, 195, 200
acategorial, 125, 200
allomorphy of, 19, 100, 188,
200
suppletion of, 6, 12, 16, 19
Rule-based Phonology, 81–85
Scalar adjective, 70
Scalarity, 66–67, 70–71, 73
Scope, 13, 21, 69–70, 76, 88, 105,
107, 113, 169, 180, 189–190,
195–197
Scope Economy, 190, 195, 197
Screeve marker, 40. See also Class
features
Secondary stress, 36, 79, 88
Simplified Bracketed Grid Theory
(SBGT), 21, 25, 36
Single cycle hypothesis, 96
Speaker (feature), 2, 5, 36, 41–42, 45,
58, 137, 139, 150
State passive. See Adjectival passive
Stem, 21–24, 26–27, 31–34, 36–37, 46,
54, 56, 60–62, 64–65, 86–91, 97,
99–100, 110, 112, 114–115,
117–133, 156–157, 159, 161, 165,
182
bound stem, 91, 112, 118–120,
123–124, 126–127, 132–133
free stem, 91, 119, 125, 127
stem-storage, 123
Subject Index 259
Stress, 6, 8, 10, 19, 22–23, 25–28,
30–33, 35–37, 65, 77, 79, 81–93,
149, 155–156, 164
stress assignment, 6, 10, 79, 81, 85, 88,
91–93
stress clash, 27, 35–36
Stress Clash Resolution, 27,
35–36
stress preservation, 87–88, 91,
93
Subjunctive, 19, 34, 36, 189,
191–195
Subset Principle, 187, 200
Superlative, 18, 59–73, 75, 76, 61–62,
64–65, 67–68, 70, 77, 152, 186–189,
196–197
Suppletion, 1, 6, 12–13, 15, 19, 60–61,
63, 65, 73, 118, 122, 126, 129, 133,
185–189, 195–196. See also Roots,
suppletion of
Syncretism, 2–3, 6, 15–17, 143, 144,
146, 148, 150
Synthetic, 1–3, 5–7, 10–12, 18, 59–77.
See also Tense, past
Tense, 1–3, 6–7, 11–13, 16–17, 40,
45–46, 49, 51, 56, 95–100, 102,
113–115, 123, 155–159, 161, 165,
189, 191–194, 197, 202, 203, 205
future, 3, 9–13, 17, 19, 45, 47, 77–78,
128, 132–133, 192–193, 197
past, 13, 96, 99, 113
analytic past, 2–3, 7–8, 16
synthetic past, 1, 6, 10–11
present, 202
sequence of tense, 192
Transfer, 189, 192
Transparent complement, 189
Trial, 69, 136–138
Truncation, 120, 123–124, 126–127,
131, 133, 163
Type-shifting, 104
Umlaut, 152–155, 159–160, 164
Unaccusative, 134, 191
Underspecification, 201
Unit augmented (number), 136–138
Variation, 2, 4–5, 10–11, 18, 61,
103–104, 114, 169, 175, 203. See
also Labovian variability
Vocabulary Insertion, 6, 14–17, 46,
48–50, 58, 60–61, 77, 96–100, 109,
114, 118, 122–123, 126, 130,
133–134, 155, 160, 163–165,
183–184, 187, 196–197, 199,
201–202, 205, 212–213, 218, 219,
220
Vocabulary Item, 2, 7, 11, 12, 14–16,
19, 39, 41, 44–49, 57, 96, 107, 115,
118, 122, 126, 129–131, 163, 199,
200, 201, 202, 208, 211–212, 218
Vowel Reduction (Rule), 8, 19, 82–85,
93
WFR, 50–53, 161
Woll (modal), 192–194
Word Formation Rule. See WFR
Word-phrase competition, 10
Zero grade, 23
Language Index
Abkhaz, 167
Arabic, 46, 92, 167–168, 170–172
Moroccan Arabic, 167, 172
Standard Arabic, 168, 171
Awa Pit, 141
Barbacoan, 141
Basque, 54, 75, 201–208, 211, 217, 219
Ondarru (Biscayan), 202–204, 206
Souletin, 206–207
Bininj-Gunwok, 137
Bulgarian, 201, 206, 208–217, 219
Catalan, 2, 4–5, 12, 17, 19
Alguerese, 17
Balearic Catalan, 1
North-Eastern Central, 183
Rossellonese, 1, 5, 17
Valencian, 1, 5, 17–18
Chaha, 152, 154, 157–158
Chinook, 143
Cimbrian. See German
Czech, 187, 196
Damana, 138–139
Dumi, 136
English, 8, 10, 18–19, 22, 30, 36, 39,
59–60, 62, 65–66, 73–74, 76–77, 79,
81–83, 85–86, 91–92, 95–101, 106,
111–115, 120–121, 130, 132, 150,
155, 159, 161, 164, 178, 187–189,
191–193, 196–197, 199
English stress, 22, 81, 83, 92
Farsi. See Persian
French, 7, 17, 76, 143, 212
Fula, 136
Georgian, 39–47, 49–58, 143, 183
German, 74, 152–155, 159, 164
Cimbrian, 187, 196
Greek, 21, 97, 106, 109–112, 114–115,
150, 164, 197
Hebrew, 141–142, 149
Hiaki, 117–120, 122–124, 126, 128–134
Hindi, 217
Hopi, 138, 140
Hungarian, 187, 196
Ischia (Italian dialect), 158
Italian, 14, 17–18, 141–142, 156–158
Japanese, 97, 106–109, 111–112, 114–115
Kadiwéu, 54
Kiowa, 136, 138, 142–144, 147, 150
Kiowa-Tanoan, 136, 142–143
Ladin, Central, 167
Latin, 117–118, 122–123, 188
Latvian, 187, 196
Lihir, 138
Limbu, 139–140
Lithuanian, 21–22, 27, 35, 37
Macedonian, 220
Mam, 124, 132, 135, 140–141, 149
262 Language Index
Marshallese, 138
Menominee, 136
Mokilese, 139
Mussau, 138
Nama, 56
Newari, 141
Nyawaygi, 139
Passamaquoddy, 57
Persian, 187–188, 196
Proto-Indo-European, 21–23, 25, 27, 29,
31, 33, 35, 37
Romance, 2, 4, 17, 19, 143
Romanian, 141, 197
Russian, 21–23, 25–27, 29, 35, 65, 68,
77, 196
Sanskrit, Vedic, 21–22, 35, 37
Semitic languages, 54–55
Southern Tiwa, 150
Spanish, 4, 13, 18–19, 132, 145, 155,
164, 167, 171, 173–176, 178–179,
181–183, 197, 207, 212
Surmiran, 19
Sursurunga, 137
Terena, 152, 154
Tewa, 136, 143–148, 150
Tibetan, 141
Tibeto-Burman, 141
Tiwa, Southern, 150
Tok Pisin, 138
Tsafiki, 141
Ubykh, 187, 196
Walapai, 139
Yaqui. See Hiaki
Yimas, 137–138, 143
Yoeme. See Hiaki
Yucatec Mayan, 54
Zulu, 164
