On Being I 29
Being's awareness of death, angst, and the feeling of nothingness
open our minds to nothing that is not already the horizon into
which we have been thrown. The entities that come toward us are
not only "utilizable" objects; they are also the keyboard of the pas-
sions we know so well, because they are the way in which others
have apprised us of our being involved in the world. The feelings
that seem to open our minds to the Sein are already part of the im-
mense territory of the entities. Again, if Nothingness were the
epiphany of an obscure force that opposes the entities, in this
inexpressible ontological "black hole" we might perhaps meet
that traveler through a negative universe which is das Sein. But no,
Heidegger is not so naive as to hypostatize a mechanism of thought
(negation), or the feeling that reality is vacillating, and to transform
it into the ontological "reality" of Nothingness. He knows very
well, as did Parmenides, that being really exists, but Nothingness
does not exist ( D K 6). What could he make of a term that has
not only null intension but also null extension? The sensation of
nothingness is not a simple tonality of passion, a contingent, chance
depression, a mood, but a "fundamental affective situation"
(Heidegger 1973: 204). Not the appearance of another Something,
but passion.
And so what is it that not-belonging arouses, if not the aware-
ness that our being-there consists of having to talk (to chat) about
the entity? Once divorced from the entity of which we are talking,
being flees. But this is not an ontological or metaphysical statement,
it is more a lexical observation: no meaning corresponds to this
word, das Sein, as opposed to das Seiende. Both terms have the same
extension (unlimited) and the same intension (null). "The entity is
known to us—but being? When we try to determine, or even just
to grasp such a notion, are we not seized by vertigo?" (Heidegger
1973: IV, B, 41). It is exactly the same vertigo that seizes us
when we want to say what the entity is as an entity. Terms of equal
intension and extension (the only instance of absolute synonymy!),
Seiende and Sein both indicate the same Something.
The Sein always appears in Heidegger's discourse as an in-
truder, as the substantivized hypostasis of a verbal usage typical of
30 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
ordinary discourse. Being-there finds itself again, becomes aware of
itself insofar as it is assigned to the entity, and therein discovers its
real essence (which is not quiddity but decision) as being prepared
to meet death. It is a sort of transcendental apperception without
" I " and without "I think," in which being-there discovers itself as
thought, emotion, desire, and corporeality (otherwise it would not
have to die). In relating himself to the entity that he is not, man
finds himself already before the entity as that which sustains him,
that to which he finds assigned to him, that which, with all his cul-
ture and all his technology, he can never fully master (Heidegger
1973: 196). In this horizon the Dasein recognizes itself as such: in
every state of mind, for which each of us "is" in this or that disposi-
tion, our being-there is manifest. Agreed. But why does Heidegger
go on to say that we therefore understand being but nevertheless
lack the concept (Heidegger 1973, IV, B, 41)? Why is the Sein dis-
covered in this state of mind or disposition? It is natural for the
concept to be lacking, if its intension is null, as is the case with the
entity as such. But why do we need this concept?
As Heidegger says in Being and Time (§490), angst constitutes
the opening of being-there to its existence as being thrown for its
own end; agreed, and the (grammatical) subject of this thrown be-
ing is the Dasein. But then why is it said immediately afterward
that "because of it [angst], being opens to being-there" and "the be-
ing of being-there is totally at stake"? The being of being-there is
pure tautology. Being-there cannot be based on something, given
that it is "thrown" (why? because it is). Whence comes this das Sein
that opens itself to being-there, if the being-there that opens itself is
an entity among the entities?
When Heidegger says that the problem of the founding of meta-
physics is rooted in man's questioning of being, or, better, in its
most intimate foundation "the understanding of being as really ex-
isting finiteness" (Heidegger 1973: 198), the Sein is none other than
the existential understanding of our finite way of being assigned to
the horizon of the entities. The Sein is nothing, except our under-
standing that we are finite entities.
And so it could be said that, at most, being's experience of being-
On Being I 31
there is an efficacious metaphor for the obscure sphere in which an
ethical decision is formed: to assume genuinely our destiny to be
for death, and at this point silently to sacrifice what metaphysics
would have said—at length—about the legion of entities over
which it has established its illusory dominion.
But then comes (a philosophically influential event) the Kehre, or
Turning Point. And in the Turning Point this so intensionally slip-
pery being becomes a massive subject, albeit in the form of an ob-
scure borborygmus wandering about in the bowels of the entities.
It wants to speaks and reveal itself. If it speaks, it will speak through
us, given that, like Sein, it emerges only in its connection with
Dasein. It is necessary therefore, as was the case with the ontic/
ontological duplication by which being was divorced from itself, to
have language also divorced from itself. On the one hand, there
will be the language of metaphysics, which by this time has had its
day, senescent in its stubborn forgetfulness of being, anxious to deal
with objects, and, on the other hand, a language capable—shall we
say—of giving "un sens plus pur aux mots de la tribu." With the
result that, rather than conceal being, it reveals it.
An immense power is therefore conferred upon language, and
some maintain that there is a form of language so strong, so con-
substantial with the very foundations of being, that it "shows" us
being (that is, the indissoluble plexus of being-language) so that the
self-revelation of being is actuated within the language. The last
verse of Hoderlin's Andenkpi is emblematic of this: "But what re-
mains will be intuited by the poets."
1 . 7 T H E QUESTIONING OF THE POETS
The idea is an ancient one and manifests itself in all its glory in the
Neoplatonism of the Pseudo-Dionysius. Given a divine One—
which is neither body, figure, nor form; which has no quantity or
quality or weight; which is in no place; does not see or hear; is nei-
ther soul, nor intelligence, nor number, order, or size; is neither
substance, nor eternity, nor time; is not shadow and is not light; nor
error nor truth (Theologia mistica), because no definition may
3 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
circumscribe it—it can be named only with an oxymoron such as
"most luminous soot," or by other obscure dissimilarities, such as
Lightning, Jealousy, Bear, or Panther, precisely to underline its in-
effability (De coelesti hierarchia). This so-called symbolic w a y —
which is abundantly metaphorical in point of fact, and which was
to have an influence upon the Thomist and post-Thomist concepts
of analogy—is an example of how being can be talked of only
through poetry.
So it is the most ancient mystical tradition that has given to the
modern world the idea that there exists, on the one hand, a dis-
course capable of naming the entities univocally, and, on the other,
a discourse of negative theology that allows us to talk of the un-
knowable. This leaves the way clear for the persuasion that the
only people who can talk of the unknowable are the poets, the mas-
ters of rnetaphor (which always talks of something else) and of oxy-
moron (which always talks of the presence of opposites)—an idea
to the liking of poets and mystics but even more to that of positivist
scientists, prepared to rationalize about prudent limits of knowl-
edge by day and to organize spiritualist seances by night.
This solution could find a place within a highly complex relation
with the definitions provided over the course of centuries by po-
etic—and, generally speaking, artistic—discourse. But let us em-
ploy Poetry and Poet as synecdoches for Art and Artist. From Plato
to Baumgarten, we have a sort of devaluation of artistic as opposed
to theoretical knowledge, from the idea of imitation of an imita-
tion to the idea of a gnoseologia inferior. With this, having equated
the perfection of knowledge with an understanding of the univer-
sal, we reduce poetic knowledge to a kind of halfway house
between the perfection of a generalizing knowledge, revealed
through the discovery of laws, and the perfection of a knowledge
that was predominantly individualizing: the poet conveys to us the
nuances of color in a leaf, but he doesn't tell us what Color is. Now,
in historical terms, it was precisely with the advent of an era of sci-
ence, from the Age of Enlightenment to the Century of Positivism,
that scientific knowledge and its limits were put to the test. As the
validity of this knowledge was gradually questioned, and limited to
On Being I 33
highly circumscribed universes of discourse, there gradually
emerged the possibility of an area of certainty that would definitely
come very close to the Universal but through a quasi-numinous
revelation of the particular (which is none other than the modern
notion of epiphany).
In this way the gnoseologia inferior becomes the instrument of
privileged knowledge. Butfaute de mieux. The revelatory power at-
tributed to the Poets is not so much the effect of a reevaluation of
Poetry as a slump affecting Philosophy. The Poets have not won;
the Philosophers have surrendered.
Now, even granted that the Poets speak to us of the otherwise
unknowable, before we entrust to them the exclusive task of speak-
ing about being, we must accept as a postulate that the unknowable
exists. But this is precisely one of the "four incapacities" listed by
Peirce in his Some Consequences of Four Incapacities, in which it is
argued, in order, that (i) we have no power of introspection, but all
knowledge of the internal world is derived by hypothetical reason-
ing from our knowledge of external facts; (ii) we have no power of
intuition, but every cognition is determined logically by previous
cognitions; (iii) we have no power of thinking without signs; (iv)
we have no conception of the absolutely incognizable.
It is not necessary to agree with the first three propositions in order
to accept the fourth. Peirce's argument strikes me as beyond criticism:
Every unidealistic philosophy supposes some absolutely inexplica-
ble, unanalyzable ultimate; in short, something resulting from me-
diation itself not susceptible of mediation. Now that anything if
that inexplicable can only be known by reasoning from signs. But
the only justification of an inference from signs is that the conclu-
sion explains the fact. To suppose the fact absolutely inexplicable is
not to explain it, and hence this supposition is never allowable.
(WR2: 213)
By this Peirce does not mean to say that we can or must exclude
a priori that the incognizable exists; he says that in order to state
this, it is necessary to have tried to know it through chains of
34 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
inferences. Therefore, if philosophical questioning is to be kept
open, we ought not to presuppose or postulate the incognizable
from the start. By way of a conclusion (ours), if this presupposition
is not allowed, right from the outset we ought not to delegate the
power of speaking about the incognizable to those who do not in-
tend to follow the path of hypothesis but go straight for the path of
revelation.
What do the Poets reveal to us? It is not that they say Being, they
are simply trying to emulate it: ars imitatur naturam in sua opera-
tione. The Poets assume as their own task the substantial ambiguity
of language, and try to exploit it to extract a surplus of interpretation
from it rather than a surplus of being. The substantial polyvocity of
being usually obliges us to make an effort to give form to the form-
less. The poet emulates being by reproposing its viscosity; he tries
to reconstruct the formless original, to persuade us to reckon with
being. But he offers us an ersatz and does not tell us anything more
about being than being has already told us or than we have had it
say, in other words, very little.
We have to decide what the Poets say when they intuit what re-
mains. In Holzwege (Heidegger 1950), we notice an oscillation be-
tween two very different aesthetics.
For the first, it is stated that when Van Gogh portrays a pair of
clogs, the work of art has let us know what shoes really are, and
this entity manifests itself in the nonconcealment of its being—in
other words, in this representation the being of the entity attains
the stability of its appearance. Therefore there is a truth, and there
is a being (Sein) that says it by appearing, and by using as a vehicle
that Dasein called Vincent—just as for certain heretics Christ was
allegedly incarnated passing through the Virgin quasi per tubum,
but it was the Word that took the initiative, not its fleshly and acci-
dental go-between.
But a second aesthetic emerges when it is said that a Greek
temple appears—and I translate—as an epiphany of the Earth, and
through this quasi-numinous experience "the work keeps open the
opening on the World." Here the work is not the mediator through
which the Sein reveals itself; it is (as we were saying) how art makes
On Being I 35
a tabula rasa of the inauthentic ways in which we encounter the en-
tities, and it invites and provokes us to reinterpret the Something in
which we are.
These two aesthetics are irreconcilable. The first affords a
glimpse of an orphic realism (something outside us that tells us how
things really are); the second celebrates the triumph of questioning
and hermeneutics. But this second aesthetic does not tell us that be-
ing is revealed in the discourse of the Poets." It tells us that the dis-
course of the Poets does not replace our questioning of being but
sustains and encourages it. It tells us that precisely by destroying
our consolidated certainties, by reminding us to consider things
from an unusual point of view, by inviting us to submit to the en-
counter with the concrete and to the impact with an individual in
which the fragile framework of our universals crumbles. Through
this continuous reinvention of language, the Poets are inviting us to
take up again the task of questioning and reconstructing the World
and of the horizon of the entities in which we calmly and continu-
ously thought we lived, without anxieties, without reservations,
without any further reappearance (as Peirce would have put it) of
curious facts that cannot be ascribed to known laws.
In this case the experience of art is not something radically dif-
ferent from the experience of talking about Something, in philoso-
phy, in science, in everyday discourse. It is at once a moment and a
permanent corrective. As such it repeats to us that there is no di-
vorce between Seiende and Sein. Here we are still, talking about
Something, asking ourselves how we talk about it and if there
can be a moment in which the discourse stops. The implicit answer
is no, for no discourse stops only because we say to it, "You
are beautiful." On the contrary, it is precisely at this point that
that discourse asks us to be taken up again in the work of inter-
pretation.
1.8 A M O D E L O F W O R L D K N O W L E D G E
Let us start off again from the strong assumption that being is
said in many ways. Not in four, ascribable to the parameter of
3 6 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
substance, not by analogy, but in radically different ways. Being is
such that diverse interpretations of it may be given.
But who talks of being? We do, and often as if being were out-
side us. But evidently, if there is Something, we are part of it. The
result is that by opening ourselves to being, we also open ourselves
to ourselves. We categorize the entity, and at the same time we re-
alize ourselves in the / thin\. In saying how we can think of being,
we already fall victim, for linguistic reasons—at least in the Indo-
European languages—to a dangerous dualism: a subject thinks an
object (as if the subject were not part of the object of which it is
thinking). But since the risk is implicit in the language, let us run
it. Then we shall make the necessary corrections.
Let us attempt therefore a mental experiment and construct an
elementary model that contains a World and a Mind that knows
and names it. The World is a whole composed of elements (for
the sake of convenience, let us call them atoms, without any refer-
ence to the scientific sense of the term, but rather in the sense of
stoicheia) structured in accordance with reciprocal relations. As for
the Mind, it is not necessary to conceive of it as human, as a brain,
as any res cogitans; it is simply a device for organizing propositions
that serve as a description of the world. This device has elements
that we might call neurons or bytes, or stoicheia, but again for the
sake of convenience let us call them symbols.
A word of warning, which is fundamental if we are to have a
guarantee against the schematic nature of the model: if the World
were a continuum and not a series of discrete states (and therefore
segmentable but not segmented), it would not be possible to talk of
stoicheia. If anything, it would be the Mind that, because of its own
limitations, would not be able to think of the continuum except by
segmenting it into stoicheia—thereby rendering it homologous
with the discrete nature of the Mind's system of symbols. Let us say
then that the stoicheia, rather than real states of the World, are pos-
sibilities, tendencies on the part of the World to be represented
through discrete sequences of symbols. But in any case it shall be
seen that this rigidity on the model's part will already be called au-
tomatically into question by the second hypothesis.
On Being I yj
By World we mean the universe, in its "maximal" version: it
contains both that which we hold to be the present universe and the
infinity of possible universes—we do not know whether unrealized
or realized beyond the extreme limits of the known galaxies,
in Giordano Bruno's space of an infinity of worlds, perhaps all
simultaneously present in different dimensions—the whole that
encompasses both physical entities and ideal objects or laws, from
Pythagoras's theorem to Odin and Thumbelina. In the light of
what we have said about the precedence of the experience of being
with regard to the question of its origin, our universe can therefore
include God too, or any other original principle.
In a reduced version of the experiment, we could also think of
the simple material universe, the one known to physicists, histori-
ans, archaeologists, and paleontologists: the things that are in being
now, plus their history. If we prefer to understand our model as
maximal, it is to elude the dualistic impression that it may give. In
the experiment, both the atoms and the symbols can be conceived
as ontologically homologous entities, stoicheia made of the same
stuff, as if in order to represent three spheres, atoms of the world, a
mind were capable of arranging a sequence of three cubes, which
in their own turn are simply atoms of the same World.
The Mind is only a device that (upon demand, or through spon-
taneous activity) assigns a symbol to every atom, so that every one
of the Mind's sequences of symbols may stand for (it does not mat-
ter to whom) a procedure of interpretation of the World. In this
sense we overcome the objection that in our experiment a Mind is
put in opposition to a World, as if a Mind, whatever it may be,
could not in its turn belong to the World. We can conceive of a
World capable of interpreting itself, which delegates a part of itself
to this purpose, so that among its infinite or indefinite atoms some
stand for symbols that represent all the other atoms, exactly in
the sense in which we, human beings, when we talk of phonology
or phonetics, delegate some sounds (which we emit as actuated
phonations) to talk of all phonations that may be actuated. To
make the situation more visible and to eliminate the misleading
image of a Mind that disposes of symbols that are not atoms of the
38 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
world, we can think of a Mind that, confronted with a series of ten
lightbulbs, wants to explain all their possible combinations to us.
This Mind only has to light up various sequences of lightbulbs in
series, the switching on of the lightbulbs standing for symbols of
those real or possible combinations that the bulbs as atoms could
realize.
In that case the system would be, as Hjelmslev would have put
it, monoplanar: operations carried out on the continuum of the uni-
verse, by digitally activating some of its states, would be at the same
time "linguistic" operations that describe possible states of the con-
tinuum (activating states would be the same as "saying" that those
states are possible).
Put another way, being is something that, at its own periphery
(or at its own center, or here and there in its mesh), secretes a part
of itself that tends to interpret itself. According to our inveterate
beliefs,' this is the task or the function of human beings, but this is
presumption. Being could interpret itself in other ways, certainly
through animal organisms, but perhaps vegetable and (why not?)
mineral ones too, in the silicon epiphany of the computer.1 2
In a more complex model the Mind could therefore be repre-
sented not as if put before the World but as if contained by the
World, and it could have a structure that enabled it to talk not only
of the world (which is opposed to it) but also of itself as a part of the
world, and of the same process whereby it, a part of what is inter-
preted, could serve as interpreter. At this point, however, we would
no longer have a model but precisely what the model was clumsily
trying to describe. And if we possessed this knowledge, we would
be God, or in a Fichtian sense we would have constructed Him. In
any case, even if we succeeded in elaborating such a model, it
would be didactically less efficacious than the one (still dualistic)
we are proposing. Let us therefore accept all the limitations, and
the apparently dualistic nature, of the model, and continue.
First hypothesis. Let us imagine that the World is composed of
three atoms (1, 2, 3) and that the Mind has three symbols (A, B, C).
The three worldly atoms could combine in six different ways, but
if we limited ourselves to considering the World in its present state
On Being I 39
(including its history), we could suppose that it is equipped with a
stable structure given by the sequence 123.
If knowledge were specular, and the truth adaequatio rei et intel-
lects, there would be no problem. The Mind assigns (not arbitrar-
ily) to atom 1 the symbol A, to atom 2 the symbol B, to atom 3 the
symbol C, and with the ordered triplet A B C it represents the struc-
ture of the World. It should be noted that in this case there would
be no need to say that the Mind "interprets" the World: it would
represent it specularly.
The problems arise if the assignation of the symbols to atoms is
arbitrary: for example, the Mind could also assign A to 3, B to 1,
and C to 2, and by combinatorial analysis it would have six possi-
bilities of providing a faithful representation of the same 123 struc-
ture. It would be as if the Mind had six different languages at its
disposal to describe a World that was always the same one, in such
a way that different triplets of symbols always stated the same
proposition. If we admit the possibility of total synonymy, the six
descriptions would still be six different specular representations.
But the metaphor of six different mirror images of the same object
allows us to think that either the object or the mirror has moved
every time, providing six different aspects. At this point it would be
better to go back to talking about six interpretations.
Second hypothesis. The symbols used by the Mind are less numer-
ous than the atoms of the World. The symbols used by the Mind
are still three, but the atoms of the World are ten (1, 2, 3,... 10). If
the World were always structured by triplets of atoms, by factorial
calculation it could group its ten atoms into 720 different ternary
structures. The Mind would then have six triplets of symbols
(ABC, B C A , C A B , A C B , B A C , C B A ) to account for 720 triplets of
atoms. Different worldly events, from different perspectives, could
be interpreted by the same symbols. Which amounts to saying, for
example, that we would always be obliged to use the A B C triplet of
symbols to represent 1 2 3 , or 345, or 547. We would have a bewil-
dering superabundance of homonyms, and we would find our-
selves exactly in the situation described by Aristotle: on the one
hand, a single abstract concept such as "man" would serve to name
40 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
the multiplicity of individuals; on the other hand, being could
be said in many ways because the same symbol would stand both
for the is in "A man is an animal" (being according to substance)
and for the is in "That man is sitting" (being according to accident).
The problem would not change—except for ulterior complica-
tions—if the World were organized not in a stable manner but
chaotically (and if it were capricious, evolutionary, bent on restruc-
turing itself in time). By continually changing the structure of the
triplets, the language of the Mind would have to adapt itself con-
tinually, always because of an excess of homonyms, to the different
situations. Which likewise would happen if the world were an infi-
nitely segmentable continuum, an epiphany of fractals. The Mind,
rather than adapt itself to the changes in the world, would con-
tinuously change its image, gradually causing it to gel into systems
of different stoicheia, depending on how it projects (as copies or
schemata) its triplets of symbols onto it.
But it would be worse if the World were hyperstructured, that is
to say, if it were organized in accordance with a sole structure given
by a particular sequence of ten atoms. By combinatorial analysis,
the World could organize itself into 3,628,800 different decuplets
or combinations (let us not even think of a World that readjusts it-
self through successive hyperstructuring, that is, one that changes
the arrangement of sequences at every moment, or every ten thou-
sand years). Even in the event of the World's having a fixed struc-
ture (that is, if it were organized in a single decuplet), the Mind
would still have only six triplets of symbols with which to describe
it. It could try to describe it only a piece at a time, as if it were look-
ing at it through a keyhole, unable ever to describe it in its entirety.
Which seems very like what happens to us now and what has been
happening to us over the course of the millennia.
Third hypothesis. The Mind has more elements than the World.
The mind possesses ten symbols (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J), and
the World has only three atoms ( 1 , 2 , and 3). And that is not all: the
Mind can combine these ten symbols in duplets, triplets, quadru-
plets, and so on. As if to say that the cerebral structure had more
neurons and more possible combinations among them than the
On Being I 41
number of the atoms and their combinations identifiable in the
World. It is clear that this hypothesis should be immediately aban-
doned, because it clashes with the initial assumption that the Mind
is also part of the World. If it were part of the World, such a com-
plex Mind should also consider its own ten symbols as worldly
stoicheia. To permit the hypothesis, the Mind would have to leave
the World: it would be a kind of highly rational divinity that has to
account for an extremely poor world, which moreover it does not
know, because the World has been cobbled together by a Demiurge
devoid of imagination. However, we could also think of a World
that in some way secretes more res cogitans than res extensa, that is,
one that has produced an extremely small number of material
structures, using few atoms, keeping others in reserve for use only
as symbols of the Mind. In any case, it is worth entertaining this
third hypothesis, because it serves to throw a certain light on the
fourth.
It follows from this that the Mind would have an astronomical
number of combinations of symbols to represent the worldly struc-
ture 123 (or at most its six possible combinations), each from a dif-
ferent point of view. The Mind could for example represent 123
through 3,628,800 decuplets, each of which accounts not only for
123 but also for the hour and the day on which 123 is represented,
the internal state of the Mind itself in that moment, the ends and
intentions according to which the Mind represents it (assuming
that a Mind as rich as this one also has ends and intentions). There
would be an excess of thought in relation to the simplicity of the
world, we would have an abundance of synonyms, or else the stock
of possible representations would exceed the number of the pos-
sible existing structures. And perhaps this is the way it happens,
given that we can lie and construct fantastic worlds, imagine and
foresee alternative states of things. The Mind could very well rep-
resent even the various ways in which it is in the World. Such
a Mind could write the Divine Comedy even if the infundibular
structure of the inferno did not exist in the World, or it could con-
struct geometries with no counterpart in the material order of the
World. It could even set itself the problem of the definition of
42 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
being, duplicate entities and being, formulate the question why
there is something rather than nothing—given that it could talk in
many ways of this something—without ever being sure it was say-
ing it the right way.
Fourth hypothesis. The Mind has ten symbols, as many as there
are atoms in the world, and both Mind and World can combine
their elements, as in the third hypothesis, into duplets, triplets,
quadruplets...decuplets. The Mind would then have an astronom-
ical number of propositions at its disposal to describe an astronom-
ical number of worldly structures, with all the possible synonymies
that derive from them. But that is not all; the Mind could also
(given the abundance of worldly combinations not yet realized)
design modifications of the World, just as it could be taken con-
tinuously by surprise by worldly combinations that it had not yet
foreseen; moreover, the Mind would be hard put to explain in dif-
ferent ways how the World works.
There would be not an excess of thought with respect to the
simplicity of the World, as in the third hypothesis, but a sort of con-
tinuous challenge among contenders fighting each other on a
potentially equal footing but in reality changing weapons for every
attack and thereby putting their adversaries in difficulty. The Mind
would confront the World with an excess of perspectives, and the
World would avoid the Mind's traps by continuously changing the
rules (including the rules of the Mind itself).
Yet again, all this seems very similar to something that has hap-
pened to us before and is happening to us now.
1.9 ON THE POSSIBILITY THAT BEING MIGHT ABSCOND
Let us abandon our model now, since it has transformed itself into
the (realistic) portrait of our being thrown into being, and it has
confirmed to us that being can be nothing other than what is said in
many ways. We have understood that, whichever way things stand
(but even the very idea that things stand in some way might be
called into question), every proposition regarding that which is,
and that which could be, implies a choice, a perspective, a point of
On Being I 43
view. Every attempt to say something about that which is would be
subject to revision, to new conjectures on the suitability of using
one or the other image, or schema. Many of our claimed represen-
tations would be perhaps incompatible with one another, but they
could all tell a truth of their own.
I would not say that we cannot have any real knowledge; if any-
thing, I would maintain that we have an excess of real knowledge.
Some are prepared to object that there is no difference between
saying there is no truth and saying there are many truths (even if it
were only a very simple double truth). But we might likewise ob-
ject that this excess of truth is transitory; it is an effect of our grop-
ing our way along, between trial and error; it indicates a limit
beyond which these different perspectives (all partly true) could
one day be combined in a system. And that at bottom our continu-
ous renewal of the question of truth depends precisely on this
excess...
It may be that, in our language, there is a superabundance of be-
ing. Perhaps when scientists say that hypotheses should not be ver-
ified but above all falsified, they mean to say that in order to know,
we need to prune away the excess of being that can be stated by lan-
guage.
In any case, the idea that our descriptions of the world are al-
ways perspectival, bound up with the way we are biologically,
ethnically, psychologically, and culturally rooted in the horizon of
being, would be more than acceptable. These characteristics would
not hinder our discourses from corresponding to the world, at least
from a certain standpoint, without this leading to our feeling satis-
fied by the degree of correspondence, with the result that we are
never persuaded to maintain that our answers, even when they
seem basically "good," must be considered definitive.
But the problem is not how to come to terms with the fact that
being may be talked of in many ways. It is that, having identified
the deep mechanism of the plurality of answers, we come to the fi-
nal question, which is central in what has become known as the
postmodern world: If the perspectives on being are infinite, or at
least astronomically indefinite, does this mean that one equals the
44 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
other, that all are equally good, that every statement on that which
is says something truer Does this mean that—as Feyerabend said
about scientific theories—anything goes?
In other words, the final truth would lie beyond the limits of the
Western logocentric model; would elude the principles of identity,
of noncontradiction, and the excluded middle; would coincide pre-
cisely with the kaleidoscope of truth that we formulate by attempt-
ing to name it. There would be no transcendental meaning; being
would be the same process of continuous deconstruction that is
made ever more fluid, malleable, and elusive by our speaking of
it, or—as Gianni Vattimo once said—being would be moth-eaten
and friable; in other words, rhyzomatic, a network of jumping-off
points that could be traveled along according to an infinity of dif-
ferent options, a labyrinth.
Buwhere's no need to go as far as Feyerabend, or the loss of tran-
scendental meaning, or Vattimo's "weak thought." Let us listen to
Nietzsche, still not yet thirty, in liber Wahrheit und Luge im aus-
sermoralischen Sinne (Nietzsche 1873: 355-72). Since nature has
thrown away the key, the intellect plays on fictions that it calls
truth, or systems of concepts, based on the legislation of language.
Nietzsche's first reaction owes, I would say, a debt to Hume, the
second is more decidedly skeptical (why do we designate things on
the basis of an arbitrary selection of properties?), the third is a pre-
lude to the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis (different languages organize
experience in different ways), the fourth is Kantian (the Thing-in-
Itself may not be grasped by the constructor of the language): we
think we talk about (and know) trees, colors, snow, and flowers,
but they are metaphors that do not correspond to the original
essences. Every word becomes concept as its pallid universality
takes the color out of the differences between fundamentally un-
equal things: thus we think that in correspondence with the multi-
plicity of individual leaves there exists a primordial "leaf" on "the
model of which all leaves have supposedly been woven, drawn, cir-
cumscribed, colored, wrinkled, and painted—but by a clumsy
hand—in such a way that no exemplar would seem to be correct
and reliable as a faithful copy of the original shape" (360). It costs
On Being I 45
us an effort to admit that birds or insects perceive the world differ-
ently from us, nor is there any sense in saying which of the percep-
tions is more correct, because we would need that criterion of
"exact perception" that does not exist (365), because "nature instead
knows no form and no concept, and therefore no genus either but
only an x, for us unattainable and indefinable" (361). A Kantism
therefore, but without a transcendental foundation and without
even a critique of judgment. At most, after having stated that our
antithesis between individual and genus is only an anthropomor-
phic effect and one that does not spring from the essence of things,
the correction, more skeptical than the skepticism it attempts to
correct, says: "We dare not say that this antithesis corresponds to
this essence. This would be in fact a dogmatic assertion, and as
such as indemonstrable as its opposite" (361).
It has to be decided, therefore, what truth is. And it is said—
metaphorically, agreed, but precisely—by someone who is telling
us that something is known only through free and inventive
metaphor. In fact, the truth is a poetically elaborated "mobile army
of metaphors, metonymies, and anthropomorphisms" that subse-
quently gel into knowledge, "illusions whose illusory nature has
been forgotten," coins whose image has been worn away and are
taken into consideration only as metal; so we become accustomed
to lying according to convention, in a style that is binding for
everyone, placing our actions under the control of abstractions, and
having reduced the metaphors to schemata and concepts. Thence a
pyramidal order of castes and ranks, laws and delimitations, con-
structed entirely by language, an immense "Roman columbarium,"
the graveyard of intuition.
That this is an excellent portrait of how the edifice of language
regiments the landscape of the entities, or perhaps of a being that
refuses to become set within categorial systems, is undeniable. But,
even from the passages that follow, two questions are missing:
whether by adapting to the constrictions of this columbarium we
can manage to reckon with the world in some way (which would
be no insignificant observation); and whether it doesn't happen that
every so often the world obliges us to restructure the columbarium,
46 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
or even to choose an alternative form to the columbarium (which
is, at the end of the day, the problem of the revolution of cognitive
paradigms). Nietzsche, who after all supplies us with the image of
one of the ways of explaining the world that I outlined in the pre-
ceding paragraph, does not seem to ask himself whether or not the
world has many possible forms. His is a portrait of a holistic system
where no new factual judgment can intervene to throw the system
into confusion.
In other words, to tell the (textual) truth, he recognizes the exis-
tence of natural constrictions and knows a way of change. The con-
strictions appear to him as "terrible forces" that put continuous
pressure on us, opposing "scientific" truths with other truths of a
different nature. But evidently he refuses to recognize those other
truths by conceptualizing them in their turn, since it was to escape
from (hem that we forged ourselves a protective suit of conceptual
armor. The change is possible, not as a restructuring but as a per-
manent poetic revolution:
If each of us, for himself, had a different sensation, if we ourselves
could perceive now as birds, now as worms, now as plants, or if one
of us saw the same stimulus as red and another saw it as blue, and if
a third were even to hear this stimulus as a sound, then no one
could talk of such regularity in nature. (366—67)
What a coincidence that these lines were written two years after
Rimbaud, in a letter to Demeny, proclaimed, "Le Poete se fait voy-
ant par un long, immense et raisonne dereglement de tous les sens"
and in the same period saw "A noir, corset velu des mouches ecla-
tantes" and "O supreme Clairon plein des strideurs etranges."
And thus in Nietzsche's view, art (and with it myth)
continuously muddles the rubrics and the compartments of con-
cepts, presenting new transcriptions, metaphors, and metonymies;
it continuously reveals the desire to give the subsisting world of
waking man a figure so multicolored, irregular, devoid of conse-
quences, incoherent, exciting and eternally new, which is that pro-
vided by the world of dreams. (369)
On Being I 47
A dream of trees that conceal nymphs, and of gods in the form of
bulls dragging along virgins.
But here the final decision is missing. Either we accept that what
surrounds us, and the way in which we have tried to order it, can-
not be lived in, and so we deny it and opt for dreams as an escape
from reality (which is reminiscent of Pascal, for whom dreaming of
being king really every night was sufficient grounds for happi-
ness)—but Nietzsche himself admits (370) that this would be a de-
ception, albeit a supremely light-hearted one that does no harm,
and that this would be the dominion of art over life. Or, and this is
what Nietzsche's followers have taken as the real lesson, art can say
what it says because it is being itself, in its languid weakness and
generosity, that accepts this definition too and takes pleasure from
seeing itself seen as changeable, a dreamer, extenuatingly vigorous
and victoriously weak. However, at the same time, no longer as
"fullness, presence, foundation, but thought instead as fracture, ab-
sence of foundation, in definitive travail and suffering" (Vattimo
1980: 84). Being can therefore be said only insofar as it is in de-
cline, as it does not impose itself but absconds. This brings us to
an "ontology supported by 'weak' categories" (Vattimo 1980: 9).
Nietzsche's announcement of the death of God is nothing more
than the proclamation of the end of the stable structure of being
(Vattimo 1983: 21). Being exists only "as suspension and as shirk-
ing" (Vattimo 1994: 18).
In other words: once the principle is accepted that being can be
spoken of only in many ways, what is it that prevents us from be-
lieving that all perspectives are good, and that therefore not only
does being strike us as an effect of language but that it is radically
the effect of language and nothing else but the effect of language,
and specifically of the form of language that can permit itself the
greatest unruliness: the language of myth and of poetry? Being,
therefore, would be not only moth-eaten, malleable, and weak but
also pure flatus vocis. At this point it really would be the work of
the Poets, understood as dreamers, liars, imitators of nothing, capa-
ble of irresponsibly putting an equine head on a human body, and
turning every entity into a chimera.
48 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Not at all a comforting decision, given that once we have reck-
oned with being, we find ourselves having to reckon with the sub-
ject that emits this flatus vocis (which is moreover the limit of every
magic idealism). And that is not all. While it is a principle of
hermeneutics that there are no facts, only interpretations, this does
not prevent us from asking if there might not perchance be "bad"
interpretations. Because to say that there are no facts, only interpre-
tations, certainly means saying that what appears to us as fact is the
effect of interpretation but not that every possible interpretation
produces something that, in the light of subsequent interpretations,
we are obliged to consider as if it were a fact. In other words, the
fact that every winning poker hand is constructed by a choice
(maybe encouraged by chance) on the part of the player does not
mean that every hand the player lays down is a winning one. It
would be sufficient if my opponent played a royal flush to my three
of a kind, and my bet would be shown to be a bluff. Does our game
with being begin as soon as Something replies with a royal flush to
our three aces?
The real problem with every "deconstructive" argumentation of
the classic concept of truth is not to demonstrate that the paradigm
by which we reason might be fallacious. It looks as if everybody is
in agreement about this, by now. The world as we represent it to
ourselves is an effect of interpretation. The problem has more to do
with the nature of the guarantees that authorize us to attempt a
new paradigm that others must not recognize as delirium, pure
imagination of the impossible. What is the criterion that allows us
to distinguish between dream, poetic invention, and an "acid trip"
(because there are people who, after having taken the drug, throw
themselves out of windows convinced they can fly, only to wind up
splattered all over the ground; an end, mark you, in sharp contrast
with their hopes and intentions) from acceptable statements on the
things of the physical or historical world around us?
We can even posit, as Vattimo does (1994: 100), a difference be-
tween epistemology, which is "the construction of rigorous bodies
of knowledge and the solution of problems in the light of para-
digms that dictate the rules for the verification of propositions"
On Being I 49
(and that seems to correspond to Nietzsche's portrait of the concep-
tual universe of a given culture), and hermeneutics as "the activity
that takes place during the encounter with different paradigmatic
horizons, which do not allow themselves to be assessed on the basis
of some kind of conformity (to rules or, in the final analysis, to the
thing), but exist as 'poetic' proposals of other worlds, of the estab-
lishment of new rules." What new rule should the Community
prefer, and what others condemn as folly? There are and will al-
ways be those who wish to demonstrate that the world is square, or
that we do not live on the exterior but on the interior of its crust,
that statues weep, that you can bend forks on television, or that
apes descend from men—and to be flexibly honest and not dog-
matic we likewise need to find a public criterion with which to
judge whether their ideas are in some way acceptable.
In a debate held in 1990 (now in Eco 1992) with regard to the ex-
istence or otherwise of textual criteria of interpretation, Richard
Rorty—broadening the discourse to include criteria of interpreta-
tion of things that are in the world—denied that the use made of a
screwdriver to tighten screws is imposed by the object itself, while
the use made of it to open a parcel is imposed by our subjectivity
(he was discussing my distinction between the interpretation and
use of a text; see Eco 1979).
In the oral debate, Rorty also alluded to the right we would have
to interpret a screwdriver as something useful to scratch our ears
with. This explains my reply, which also remained in the printed
version of the debate, without my knowing that in the speech sent
by Rorty to the publisher the allusion to ear scratching had disap-
peared. Evidently Rorty had interpreted it as a simple boutade, an
off-the-cuff remark made in the course of the conversation, and
therefore I refrain from attributing this no longer documented ex-
ample to him. But if Rorty does not use it, someone else might, and
therefore my counterobjection is still valid. Indeed, I reconfirm it
in the light of that notion of pertinence, of the perceptual affor-
dances I talk of in this volume (3.4.7). A screwdriver can serve also
to open a parcel (given that it is an instrument with a cutting point,
easy to use in order to exert force on something resistant); but it is
50 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
inadvisable to use it for rummaging about in your ear, precisely be-
cause it is sharp and too long to allow the hand to control the action
required for such a delicate operation; and so it would be better to
use not a screwdriver but a light stick with a wad of cotton at its
tip.
It suffices to imagine a possible world in which there is only a
hand, a screwdriver, an ear (or at most a parcel and a screw) for the
argument to acquire all its ontological value: there is something in
the conformation both of my body and the screwdriver that pre-
vents me from interpreting the latter at my whim.
Now, so we might get out of this tangle: Does there exist a hard
core of being, of such a nature that some things we say about it and
for it cannot and must not be taken as holding good (and if they are
said by the Poets, let them be held good only insofar as they refer to
a possible world but not to a world of real facts)?
i . i o T H E RESISTANCES OF BEING
As usual, metaphors are efficacious but risky. By talking of a "hard
core" I do not think of something tangible and solid, as if it were a
"kernel" that, by biting into being, we might one day reveal. What
I am talking about is not the L a w of Laws. Let us try rather to
identify some lines of resistance, perhaps mobile, vagabond, that
cause the discourse to seize up, so that even in the absence of any
previous rule there arises, within the discourse, a phantasm, the
hint of an anacoluthon, or the block of an aphasia.
That being places limits on the discourse through which we es-
tablish ourselves in its horizon is not the negation of hermeneutic
activity: instead it is the condition for it. If we were to assume that
everything can be said of being, the adventure of continuously
questioning it would no longer have any sense. It would suffice to
talk about it randomly. Continuous questioning appears reasonable
and human precisely because it is assumed that there is a Limit.
One can only agree with Heidegger: the problem of being is
posed only to those thrown into Being-there, into the Dasein, of
which our disposition both to notice that something is there and to
On Being I 51
talk about it is a part. And in our Being-there we have the funda-
mental experience of a Limit that language can say in advance (and
therefore only predict), in one way only, beyond which it fades into
silence: it is the experience of Death.
We are induced to postulate that being, at least for us, sets limits
because we live, in the horizon of the entities and also in the hori-
zon of that limit that is being-for-death. Either we do not talk of
being because its presence overwhelms us, or, as soon as we talk of
it, among the first statements that we are accustomed to consider-
ing a model of all certain premises, we find "All men are mortal."
Our elders inform us of this very soon when, once we learn to
speak, we formulate the first whys.
Since we talk of being in the knowledge that there is at least one
limit, all we can do is continue with our questioning to see whether,
by chance, there are others. Just as we don't trust those who have
lied to us at least once, we don't believe the promise of the unlim-
ited made by those who have introduced themselves to us by im-
mediately setting a limit.
And, as we pursue the discourse, we very soon discover other
limits in the horizon of the entities we have named. We learn by
experience that nature seems to manifest stable tendencies. It is not
necessary to think of obscure and complex laws, like those of uni-
versal gravitation, but of simpler, more immediate experiences,
such as the rising and setting of the sun, gravity, the objective exis-
tence of the species. The universals may well be a figment and in-
firmity of thought, but once dog and cat have been identified as
species, we learn immediately that if we mate a dog with a dog, an-
other dog is born of it, but if we mate a dog with a cat, nothing is
born of it—and even if something were born, it would not be able
to reproduce itself. This still does not mean that there is a certain (I
would like to say "Darwinian") reality of the genera and species. It
is only intended to suggest that even though speaking in generalia
may be an effect of our penuria nominum; nonetheless, something re-
sistant has driven us to invent general terms (whose extension we
can always review and correct). The objection that one day some
biotechnology might make this grain obsolete is invalid: the fact
52 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
that any breach of the grain would require a technology (which by
definition alters natural limits) means that natural limits exist.
The Possible Worlds are part of another region of being. In the
ambiguous horizon of being, things might have gone differently,
and there is nothing to exclude that there might be a world in
which these confines between the species might not exist, where the
confines are other or even absent—that is, a world in which there
are no natural genera, and in which the crossing of a camel with a
locomotive might produce a square root. Nevertheless, if I can
think of a possible world in which only non-Euclidean geometries
are valid, the only way I can think of a non-Euclidean geometry is
to establish its rules, and therefore its limits.
I.I i T H E SENSE OF THE CONTINUUM
ft
It is also possible that there are regions of being about which we are
unable to talk. It seems odd, seeing that being always manifests it-
self in language only, but let us grant this—since there is no reason
why one day humanity might not invent languages different from
the known ones. But let us keep to those "regions" of being we usu-
ally talk about and tackle this talk of ours in the light not of a meta-
physics but of a semiotics, that of Hjelmslev. We use signs to
express a content, and this content is carved out and organized in
different forms by different cultures (and languages). What is it
made from? From an amorphous stuff, amorphous before lan-
guage has carried out its vivisection of it, which we will call the
continuum of the content, all that may be experienced, said, and
thought: the infinite horizon, if you will, of that which is, has been,
and will be, out of both necessity and contingency. It would seem
that before a culture has organized it linguistically in the form of
content, this continuum is everything and nothing and therefore
eludes all determination. Nonetheless, scholars and translators
have always been perplexed by the fact that Hjelmslev called it
mening in Danish and in the English translation of 1943 (which the
author cosigned with his translator) "purport."
At a certain point Hjelmslev makes it clear that the fact that dif-
On Being I 53
ferent expressions such as Jeg ved det il{ke, I do not know, Je ne sais
pas, Naluvara "have a factor in common, namely the purport, the
thought itself," even though this purport still exists as an amor-
phous mass and receives a particular form only in and from a par-
ticular language (1943: 50—52). The same could not be said of
expressions such as Piove, II pleut, It is raining.
What does it mean to say there is "purport" before any sensate
articulation effected by human cognition? I would prefer to trans-
late Hjelmslev's mening as "sense," a term that can suggest both
meaning (but there is no meaning or content before a given lan-
guage has segmented and organized the continuum) and direction
or tendency. As if to say that in the magma of the continuum there
are lines of resistance and possibilities of flow, as in the grain of
wood or marble, which make it easier to cut in one direction than
in another. It is like beef or veal: in different cultures the cuts vary,
and so the names of certain dishes are not always easy to translate
from one language to another. And yet it would be very difficult to
conceive of a cut that offered at the same moment the tip of the
nose and the tail.
If the continuum has a grain, unexpected and mysterious as it
may be, then we cannot say all we want to say. Being may not be
comparable to a one-way street but to a network of multilane free-
ways along which one can travel in more than one direction; but de-
spite this some roads will nevertheless remain dead ends. There are
things that cannot be done (or said).
The fact that these things were said once upon a time does not
matter. Afterward we ran up against some evidence that convinced
us that it was no longer possible to say what had been said before.
Here we should avoid a misunderstanding. When we talk of the
experience of something that obliges us to recognize the grain and
lines of resistance, and to formulate laws, by no means are we
claiming that these laws adequately represent the lines of resis-
tance. If along the path that leads through the wood, I find a boul-
der blocking the way, I must certainly turn right or left (or decide
to turn back), but this gives me absolutely no assurance that the
decision taken will help me know the wood better. The incident
54 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
simply interrupts a project of mine and persuades me to think up
another one. To state that there are lines of resistance does not yet
mean, as Peirce would have said, that there are universal laws at
work in nature. The hypothesis of universal laws (or the hypothesis
of a specific law) is only one of the ways in which we react to the
onset of a resistance. But Habermas, in his search for the kernel of
Peirce's criticism of the Kantian Thing in Itself, emphasizes that
the Peircean problem is not that something (concealed behind the
appearances that would mirror it) has, like a mirror, a rear side that
eludes reflection, a side that we are almost sure we will one day dis-
cover, as long as we manage to get around the figure we see; it is
that reality imposes restrictions on our cognition only in the sense
that it refuses false interpretations (Habermas 1995: 251).
To state that there are lines of resistance merely means to say
that being, even if it appears only as an effect of language, is not an
effect of language in the sense that language freely constructs it.
Even those who state that being is pure Chaos, and therefore sus-
ceptible to all discourse, would at least have to exclude that it is Or-
der. Language does not construct being ex novo: it questions it, in
some way always finding something already given (even though
being already given does not mean being already finished and com-
pleted). Even if being were moth-eaten, there would always be a
fabric whose warp and web, confused by the infinite holes that
have eaten into it, still subsist in some stubborn way.
This already given is in fact what we have called the lines of re-
sistance. The appearance of these Resistances is the nearest thing
that can be found, before any First Philosophy or Theology, to the
idea of God or Law. Certainly it is a God who manifests Himself (if
and when He manifests Himself) as pure Negativity, pure Limit,
pure No, that of which language cannot or must not talk. Which is
something very different from the God of the revealed religions, or
it assumes only His severest traits, those of the exclusive Lord of
Interdiction, incapable of saying so much as "Go forth and multi-
ply" but only intent on repeating "Thou shalt not eat from this
tree.
On the other hand, something resists even the God of the re-
On Being I 55
vealed religions. Even God prescribes limits for Himself. This
brings to mind the Quaestio Quodlibetalis in which Aquinas asks
himself utrutn Deus possit reparare virginis ruinam, that is, whether
God can remedy the fact that a virgin has lost her virginity.
Aquinas's reply is clear: If the question concerns spiritual matters,
God can certainly remedy the sin committed and restore the state
of grace to the sinner; if it concerns physical matters, with a miracle
God can restore the girl's physical integrity; but if the question is
logical and cosmological, well, not even God can ordain that what
has been has not been. Let us leave it open as to whether this neces-
sity was freely laid down by God or whether it is part of divine na-
ture itself. In any case, from the moment He is, even the God of
Aquinas is limited by it.
1 . 1 2 POSITIVE CONCLUSIONS
After having said that nothingness and negation are pure effects
of language and that being always manifests itself in the positive,
one might wonder whether it is not contradictory to speak of its
limits and its capacity to refuse. Let us therefore correct another
metaphor, which struck us as so handy for rhetorical reasons, to
make clear what we wanted to suggest. Being says no to us in the
same way a tortoise would say no if we asked it to fly. It is not that
the tortoise realizes it cannot fly. It is the bird who flies; in its own
way it knows it can fly and does not conceive of not being able to
fly. The tortoise proceeds on its earthbound path, positively, and
does not know the condition of not being a tortoise.
Of course, the animal also encounters obstacles that it senses as
limits, and it seems to struggle to remove them; just think of the
dog who scratches and barks at the door while biting the handle.
But in such cases the animal is getting closer to a condition similar
to our own; it manifests desires and intentions, and it is with re-
spect to them that the limit is set. A closed door is not in itself a no;
on the contrary, it could be a yes for those who, inside, seek privacy
and protection. It becomes a no only for the dog planning to cross
the threshold.
56 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
It is we, given that the Mind can provide imaginary representa-
tions of impossible worlds, who ask things to be what they are not.
And, when they carry on being what they are, we think they are
telling us no, and setting limits for us. We are the ones who think
that our leg (in articulating at the knee) can describe some angles,
from 180 to 45 degrees, but it cannot describe an angle of 360 de-
grees. The leg—for what little a leg can be said to "know"—is un-
aware of any limits and is aware only of possibilities. To us who
capriciously would like to live on, death appears as a limit, but for
the organism it arrives when things go exactly as they must.
Being never tells us no, except in our metaphor. Simply, faced
with a demanding question on our part, it does not give the answer
we would have wished. But the limit is in our desire, in our reach-
ing out for absolute freedom.
Of course, in the light of these resistances, the language of the
Poets seems to occupy a free zone. Liars by vocation, they are not
those who say what being is but seem to be those who instead often
permit themselves (and us) to deny its resistances—because for
them tortoises can fly, and there can even be creatures that elude
death. But their discourse, in telling us sometimes that even the im-
possibilia are possible, brings us face to face with the immoderate
nature of our desire: by letting us glimpse what could be beyond
the limit, on the one hand they console us for our finiteness and on
the other they remind us how often we are a "useless passion."
Even when they refuse to accept the resistances in being, in deny-
ing them they remind us of them. Even when they suffer on dis-
covering them, they let us think that perhaps we have identified
them (and hypostatized them into laws) too soon—that perhaps the
resistances could still be got around.
What the Poets are really saying to us is that we need to en-
counter being with gaiety (and hopefully with science too), to ques-
tion it, test its resistances, grasp its openings and its hints, which are
never too explicit.
The rest is conjecture.
Chapter Two
K A N T , PEIRCE, AND THE PLATYPUS
2.1 MARCO POLO AND THE UNICORN
Often, when faced with an unknown phenomenon, we react by ap-
proximation: we seek that scrap of content, already present in our
encyclopedia, which for better or worse seems to account for the
new fact. A classic example of this process is to be found in Marco
Polo, who saw what we now realize were rhinoceroses on Java. A l -
though he had never seen such animals before, by analogy with
other known animals he was able to distinguish the body, the four
feet, and the horn. Since his culture provided him with the notion
of a unicorn—a quadruped with a horn on its forehead, to be pre-
cise—he designated those animals as unicorns. Then, as he was an
honest and meticulous chronicler, he hastened to tell us that these
unicorns were rather strange—not very good examples of the
species, we might say—given that they were not white and slender
but had "the hair of the buffalo" and feet "like the feet of an ele-
phant." He went on to give even more detail:
It has one horn in the middle of the forehead very thick and large
and black. And I tell you that it does no harm to men and beasts
57
58 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
with its horn, but only with the tongue and knee, for on its tongue
it has very long spines and sharp...
It has the top of the head made like a wild boar... It is a very
ugly beast to see and unclean. And they are not so as we here say
and describe, who say that it lets itself be caught in the lap by a vir-
gin girl: but I tell you that it is quite the contrary of that which we
believe that it was. (Polo, The Description of the World, ed. and trans.
A. Moule and P. Pelliot, London: Routledge, 1938)
Marco Polo seems to have made a decision: rather than reseg-
ment the content by adding a new animal to the universe of the liv-
ing, he has corrected the contemporary description of unicorns, so
that, if they existed, they would be as he saw them and not as the
legend described them. He has modified the intension and left the
extension unchanged. Or at least that is what it seems he wanted to
do, or in fact did, without bothering his head overmuch regarding
taxonomy.1
What would have happened if Polo had arrived in Australia
rather than in China and spotted a platypus along some riverbankr
The platypus is a strange animal. It seems to have been con-
ceived to foil all classification, be it scientific or popular. On the av-
erage about fifty centimeters long and roughly two kilos in weight,
its flat body is covered with a dark-brown coat; it has no neck and
a tail like a beaver's; it has a duck's beak, bluish on top and pink or
variegated beneath; it has no outer ears, and the four feet have five
webbed toes, but with claws; it stays underwater (and eats there)
enough to be considered a fish or an amphibian. The female
lays eggs but "breast-feeds" her young, even though no nipples
can be seen (the male's testicles cannot be seen either, as they are
internal).
We are not wondering whether Marco Polo would have recog-
nized the animal as a mammal or an amphibian, but he certainly
would have had to ask himself if what he was seeing (presuming it
was an animal and not an illusion of the senses, or a creature from
hell) was a beaver, a duck, or a fish, and in any case if it was a bird,
sea animal, or land animal. A nice quandary, from which he could
Kant, Pence, and the Platypus I 59
not escape by using the notion of the unicorn; at best he could have
fallen back on the idea of the Chimera.
The first Australian colonists to see the platypus found them-
selves in the same quandary: they saw it as a mole, and in fact they
called it the "water mole," but this mole had a beak, and therefore
it was not a mole. Something perceptible outside the "mold" sup-
plied by the idea of mole made the mold unsuitable—because to
recognize a beak as a beak we would have to presume that the
colonists had a "template" for the beak.
2.2 PEIRCE AND THE BLACK INK
Had he come across one, Peirce too would have had problems with
the platypus, many more than he had with lithium or apple pie.
While it can be maintained that semiosic processes are involved
in the recognition of the known, because it is precisely a matter of
relating sense data to a (conceptual and semantic) model, the prob-
lem, which has been debated for a long time now, is to what extent
a semiosic process plays a part in the understanding of an unknown
phenomenon. Any semiotician of the Peircean school is convinced
that semiosis lies hidden in the perceptual processes, and not so
much because we still have to reckon with the fact that a good part
of the psychological-philosophical tradition talks of perceptual
"meaning" as because Peirce repeatedly stresses the inferential
character of perceptual processes. Once again it should suffice to
quote Some Consequences of Four Incapacities and the polemic
against Cartesian intuitionism: we have no introspective or intu-
itive powers, but all knowledge derives by hypothetical reasoning
from the knowledge of external facts and previous knowledge
(WR 2: 213).
Peirce's proposal seems almost to describe Marco Polo's clumsy
attempts with the rhinoceros. Polo had no "Platonic" intuition of
the unknown animal, nor did he try to construct its image and no-
tion ex novo, but cobbled together previous notions, thus creating a
new entity starting from some ideas about entities already known.
All things considered, the recognition of the rhinoceros appears to
60 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
be a far more complex abduction than the canonical ones: first of
all, faced with a curious and inexplicable result, Polo guessed that it
might constitute the case of a rule and concluded that the animal
was a unicorn; then, on the basis of successive experiences, he pro-
ceeded to reformulate the rule (the list of properties that charac-
terizes unicorns was changed). I should call this an interrupted
abduction.
What did Marco Polo;w before saying he saw unicorns? Did he
see something that nonetheless had to be an animal? Note that we
are opposing a primary "see" to a "say." Of course, "to see" is a
rhetorical figure, it stands for any other tactile, thermic, or auditory
response. But the problem is that, on the one hand, it seems that the
fullness of the perception (as the assignation of meaning to the un-
known) has been attained by starting from a sketch, a skeleton
plan, an outline, an "idea," if you like; on the other hand, after hav-
ing brought into play the idea of the unicorn, Marco Polo had to
admit that that unicorn was not white but black. This obliged him
to correct his first hypothesis. What happened when he said this is
blackj And did he say it before or after hypothesizing that the ani-
mal was a unicorn? And if he said it before, why did he neverthe-
less insist on the hypothesis that it was a unicorn? And when he
realized that the animal did not coincide with his idea of the uni-
corn, did he simply admit that what he saw was not a unicorn, or
did he correct his idea of unicorns, deciding that the world also
contained ill-favored black unicorns?
Marco Polo was not a philosopher. And so let us get back to
Peirce. In passing from the contact with the Dynamical Object,
through the representamen, to the formation of an Immediate
Object (which then becomes the starting point of the chain of in-
terpretants), Peirce posits the Ground as an instance that seems to
constitute the initial moment of the cognitive process. The Ground
makes its first appearances in Peirce's youthful writings, where the
interest is eminently logical.2
Between the concept of substance (the
present in general, a subject still devoid of intension, to which
properties will later be attributed, pure Something on which our
attention fixes, a yet-to-be-determined "it") and the concept of be-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 61
ing (pure conjunction of subject and predicate) we find (as acci-
dents) the reference to the Ground, the reference to a correlate, and
the reference to an interpretant.
The Ground, insofar as it is a Quality, is a predicate. And while
the reference to the correlate regards denotation and extension, ref-
erence to the Ground regards comprehension and connotation (in
the logical sense of the term): the Ground has to do with "internal"
qualities, the properties of the object. In The in\ is blacky the quality
"black" or, rather, blackness, embodied by the ink, is abstracted
from it, through a process of abstraction, or prescision. Nonethe-
less, even from a logical standpoint, the Ground is not the totality
of markers that make up the intension of a term (such a totality can
be ideally realized only in the process of interpretation): in prescind-
ing, attention is paid to one element by neglecting another. In the
Ground the object is seen in a certain respect, the attention isolates
one feature. In purely logical terms, it is evident that if I predicate
the blackness of ink, I do not predicate its liquidity. But if we were
to cleave to the logical value of the Ground, we would not get very
far. At most we would find ourselves once more among examples
that seem to confuse our ideas rather than clarify them, prisoners
of compulsive Peircean triadism.3
Moreover, the choice of the
term Ground is not one of the happiest: it suggests a background
against which something is set, while Peirce's view was that it was
probably a something set against a background that was still in-
distinct.
But we must not underestimate the fact that these youthful writ-
ings were explicitly influenced by Kant. In them Peirce basically
wanted to explain how our concepts serve to unify the manifold of
sense impressions. He makes it clear that the first impressions on
our senses are not representations of certain things unknown in
themselves, but that these very first impressions are something un-
known until the mind manages to wrap them up in predicates.
Like the post-Kantian he was on his way to becoming, Peirce was
later to say that this process of conceptualization proceeds only by
hypothetical inferences therefore: it happens not only in the process
of conceptualization but even in the recognition of sensations. In a
62 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
certain sense (in fact, in all of them) Peirce does not give a satisfac-
tory explanation of the shift from impression to concept, seeing
that for both he proposes, by way of example, the hypothetical
workings of one who recognizes, from a series of sounds, a sonata
by Beethoven and recognizes it as beautiful. But all things consid-
ered, Peirce distinguishes the two moments: both are identified
with the naming of that which is experienced, and to name is always
to make a hypothesis (just think of Marco Polo's efforts in this re-
gard). But the names given to recognize sensations (such as the sen-
sation of redness) are casual, not truly motivated; they serve only to
distinguish (as if by sticking a label on them) a certain sensation
from others: I say that I sense redness to exclude other possible
chromatic sensations, but the sensation is still subjective, tempo-
rary, and contingent, and the name is attributed to it as a signifier
whose meaning is still unknown. Instead, with the concept we
move on to the signified.
It might be said that here Peirce is thinking of the Kantian dis-
tinction between perceptual judgments and judgments on the basis
of experience (see 2.4 below), even though, like Kant, he does not
manage to give a precise definition of the former. As a matter of
fact, naming the quality "black" no longer characterizes the mo-
ment of an impression, otherwise the Ground would not be a cate-
gory, and Peirce insists that the blackness predicated is already
pure species or abstraction.
Nonetheless he sees the name given to the Ground as a term, not
as a proposition or as an argument. The term still precedes every
assertion of existence or truth, and, even before referring to some-
thing still to be identified, it refers inferentially to an aspect of that
something.
This takes us from a logical problem to an epistemological one.
The Ground is Firstness not by virtue of triadic symmetry but be-
cause it lies at the roots of the origin of conceptual understanding.
It is an "initial" way of considering the object from a certain point
of view. I could consider ink as a liquid, but in the example put for-
ward I consider it immediately under the profile of blackness. As if
to say: I don't know yet that the something I am confronted with is
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 63
ink, but I grasp it as something black, I grasp it from the point of
view of blackness.
My use of the word profile is not only metaphorical. Insofar as it
is a Quality, the Ground is a Firstness and therefore an Icon or a
Likeness.
After that, it appears that Peirce abandoned the idea of the
Ground for about thirty years, and we shall see in 2.8 how he
picked it up again. Even thirty years afterward, he was talking
about it as "a sort of idea," in the "Platonic" sense, in which it is
said that someone grasps another's idea, just as by remembering
what one was thinking of before one recollects the same idea
(CP 2.228). In the meantime, he had better elaborated what he
meant by perceptual judgment, which in 1903 is defined as "a judg-
ment asserting in propositional form what a character of a percept
directly present to the mind is. The percept of course is not itself a
judgment, nor can a judgment in any degree resemble a percept. It
is as unlike it as the printed letters in a book, where a Madonna of
Murillo is described, are unlike the picture itself" (CP 5.54).
Perceptual judgment already appears as an inference, a hypothe-
sis starting from those sense data that appear to be "percepts," and
it already belongs to Thirdness, at least as the premise of a subse-
quent chain of interpretations (CP 5.116). At this point where
should the Ground be? On the side of the percept that is not yet
judgment?
On the one hand, Peirce tells us that perceptual judgment
already contains or prefigures general elements, that universal
propositions are deducible from perceptual judgments, that abduc-
tive inference shades off into perceptual judgment, without a clear
line of demarcation between them, so that, as Proni observes, logi-
cal principles are apprehended in the amalgam of perceptual cogni-
tion itself (1990: 3 3 1 ) . On the other hand, and in the same text,
Peirce tells us that "perceptual judgments are to be regarded as an
extreme case of abductive inferences, from which they differ in be-
ing absolutely beyond criticism" (CP 5.181). Which means (as we
see in CP 5.116) that insofar as first premises of all our reasonin,
"our perceptual judgments...cannot be called into question."
64 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
A curious position: if there is inference in the perception itself,
then there is fallibilism, and in fact Peirce also deals with percep-
tual illusions (CP 5.183); and yet it seems that at the same time
these perceptual inferences are not hypothetical but "apodictic." A
fine and explicit affirmation of realism, were it not uttered by one
who never ceased saying that perception is also semiosis and there-
fore already abduction. And finally, if perceptual judgment could
not be called into question, we would have an intuition of the sin-
gular, an idea Peirce always rebelled against, right from his anti-
Cartesian writings. Moreover, if that which cannot be called into
question, and is singular, is the "percept" (and the percept is identi-
fied with the Ground), it cannot set off inferential processes that
have to do only with general terms (CP 5.298). If there is an ab-
stractive moment in perception, then there is interpretation, even if
rapid and unwitting (see Proni 1990: 1.5.2.4), and if there is inter-
pretation, there is "possible criticism."
If we were to forget these subtleties (and the inevitable contra-
dictions found in writings from different periods), we might be
able to cut a long story short this way: agreed, there is an unclear
blend in that space lying between Firstness (Ground or non-
Ground) and fully realized Thirdness; there is a first moment of
reaction of the senses that is unquestionable; the moment in
which the quality presents itself to me as the quality of something
(Secondness), this something becomes the premise of every other
inference, in the sense that I know that in any case there is a
Dynamical Object that is triggering the chain of my responses. At
this point the work of interpretation begins, and, when perceptual
judgment establishes itself and takes shape, it resolves itself into the
formation of the Immediate Object.
Some aspects of the Ground converge in the Immediate Object
(it has the nature of an icon, of Likeness) as well as all the aspects of
perceptual judgment (it presents itself as the point of departure of
every subsequent interpretation). At most we can say that there are
also Immediate Objects of something we do not know through
perception (there must certainly be two Immediate Objects that
correspond to the terms president and Alpha Centauri). But it should
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 65
not trouble us too much if we think that an icon is not necessarily
an image in the visual sense of the term, because also the melody
we whistle, perhaps tunelessly, may be an icon of Beethoven's Fifth;
and because even a graph has an iconic nature—though it perhaps
does not betray any morphological similarity with the situation
represented.
We could therefore gain a breathing space by recognizing that,
while the notion of the Ground and the very nature of perceptual
judgment are still obscure, the same cannot be said of the notion
of the Immediate Object. It is the object as it is represented
(CP 8.343), m m e
respect in which it is thought (CP 5.286), it is the
type of which the Dynamical Object that triggered the sequence of
responses was the token (Prodi 1990: 265).* To some extent it eludes
the individuality of perception, because insofar as it is interpretable,
it is already public and intersubjective; it does not tell us all about
the object, but it is only by coming to it that finally we know and
can say something about the object.
Now, in this process and in the moment of its first fulfillment, it
appears to me that a problem arises that Peirce had already come
across in Kant. Peirce is trying to reformulate, without deducing it
transcendentally, the Kantian notion of schema.
Is Peirce really thinking of Kantian schematism? Is it by trying
to distinguish the categories (but which, his or Kant's?) from the
schema and the categories from the manifold of the sensible intu-
ition that an apparently inextricable knot between the Ground and
the Immediate Object is created?
Peirce always returns, almost parenthetically, to the Kantian no-
tion of schema. In CP 2.385 he says without hesitation that the
Kantian schema is a diagram; but he speaks of it in an abstract fash-
ion, in reference to the postulates of empirical thought in general,
and within a framework of modal logic. However, in 1885, he said
that the doctrine of schemata must have come to Kant's mind only
late, when the system of the first Critique had already been laid
down: "[F]or if the schemata had been considered early enough
they would have overgrown his whole work" (WR 5: 258—59). It
seems like a research program, the identification of a breach
66 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
through which it should be possible to arrive at a nontranscenden-
tal Kantism. But what had Peirce understood of schematism, of
which even Kant, as we shall see, had understood something only
step by step?
2.3 KANT, TREES, STONES, AND HORSES
Is there a reason why Peirce, the future theoretician of semiotics,
started by reading and rereading Kant, considering Kant's table of
judgments and categories as if they had been handed down to him
from Sinai?5
Kant has been reproached for a radical lack of attention to the
problem of semiotics. But as Kelemen (1991) notes, since Hamann's
and Herder's day this lack has been attributed to the fact that Kant
considered a very close nexus between language and thought to be
implicit, and it has been suggested that this nexus presents itself
precisely in the doctrine of schematism, so much so as to suggest
that the schema was concept-word (Wortbegriff). On the other
hand, it cannot be denied that there is an implicit semiotics in the
distinction between analytic and synthetic judgments, that there is
explicit discussion of the theory of signs in the Anthropology,6
and
that it is possible to read the entire Logic in semiotic terms (see
Apel 1972). Moreover, the nexus between knowing and communi-
cating has been repeatedly underlined, a nexus of which Kant
speaks in numerous passages, even though he does not dwell on
the subject overmuch, as if he considered the question obvious
(Kelemen 1991: 37). Finally, and we shall be coming back to this,
there are the semiotic pages of the third Critique.
In any case it should suffice to consider the purely verbal origin
of Kant's categorial apparatus as much as Aristotle's and quote a
celebrated remark of Heidegger's:
[BJeings equipped with an intuitive capacity must always be able to
mingle in the intuition of the entity, but finite intuition, insofar as it
is intuition, always remains in the first place anchored to the singu-
lar intuited from time to time. The entity intuited is known only if
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 67
everyone can make it comprehensible to himself and to others, and
succeeding in this way in communicating it. (1973,1, 2)
To talk of that which is means rendering what we know communi-
cable. But to know it, and to communicate it, implies recourse to
the generic, which is already an effect of semiosis, and depends on
a segmentation of the content in which the Kantian system of cate-
gories, bound fast to a venerable philosophical tradition, is a cul-
tural product that is already established, culturally rooted, and
linguistically anchored. When the manifold of the intuition is as-
cribed to the unity of the concept, the percipienda are by that time
perceived as culture has taught us to talk about them.
That a semiosic foundation is implied by the general framework
of Kantian doctrine is one thing, but whether Kant ever elaborated
a theory of how we assign names to the things we perceive, be they
trees, dogs, stones, or horses, is another matter.
Given the question "How do we assign names to things?," in the
way that Kant had received the problem of a theory of knowledge,
the answers were in brief two. One was provided by the tradition
we will call Scholastic (but begins with Plato and Aristotle): Things
present themselves to the world already ontologically defined in
their essence, raw material modeled by a form. It is of no impor-
tance to decide whether this form (universal) is ante rem or in re: it
offers itself to us, splendid in its individual substance, is grasped by
the intellect, is thought and defined (and therefore named) as a
quiddity. The work of our mind amounts to what the active intel-
lect (wherever it may work) does in the blink of an eye.
The second answer was provided by the British Empiricists: We
do not know substances, and if there were any, they would not re-
veal anything to us. What we do have, according to Locke, are sen-
sations, which propose simple ideas, both primary and secondary,
but still disconnected: a rhapsody of weights, measures, dimen-
sions, and then colors, sounds, tastes, and reverberations, which
change with the time of day and the state of the subject. Here the
intellect is active, in the sense that it works: it combines, correlates,
and abstracts, in a way that is certainly spontaneous and natural,
68 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
but only thus does it coordinate simple ideas into those compound
ideas to which we give the name of man, horse, tree, and then tri-
angle, beauty, cause, and effect. To know is to put a name to these
compositions of simple ideas. The task of the recognition of things
was even simpler for Hume (we work directly on impressions, of
which ideas are faint images). If anything, the problem arises in es-
tablishing relations among ideas of things, as happens in affirma-
tions of causality. And here we would say that there is work, but
carried out gently, by force of habit and a natural tendency to be-
lieve, even if we are asked to consider the contiguity, priority, or
constancy in the succession of our impressions.
Kant certainly did not think it possible to repropound the
Scholastic solution; on the contrary, if there is a genuinely Coperni-
can aspect to his revolution, it lies in the fact that he suspends all
judgment on form in re and assigns a synthetic-productive, and not
merely abstractive, function to the old active intellect. As for the
British Empiricists, Kant's goal was to establish a transcendental
foundation for the process that they basically accepted as a reason-
able way of moving in the world, a process whose legitimacy was
confirmed by the fact that, all things considered, it worked.
But in doing this, Kant considerably shifted the focus of interest
within a theory of knowledge. It is rash to say, as Heidegger did,
that the Critique of Pure Reason has nothing to do with a theory of
knowledge but is, rather, ontology questioning itself regarding its
own intrinsic possibility; but it is also true that, to use Heidegger's
words again, it has little to do with a theory of ontic knowledge,
that is, of experience (1973: 24).
Yet Kant believed in the evidence of phenomena; he believed
that our sensible intuitions came from somewhere; he took the
trouble to articulate a confutation of idealism. Apparently it was
Hume who awoke him from his dogmatic slumbers, by posing the
problem of the causal relation between things, and not Locke, who
had also tabled the problem of an activity of the intellect in the
naming of things.
To say why, after having received an impression of something, I
decide I am confronted with a tree or a stone was a fundamental
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 69
problem for the Empiricists, but it seems that it became a sec-
ondary problem for Kant, overly concerned with guaranteeing our
knowledge of celestial mechanics.
The first Critique constitutes not so much a theory of everyday
knowledge as a theory of scientific knowledge. Kant was not inter-
ested in knowledge o/but knowledge that; in other words, interested
not in the conditions of knowledge (and therefore of naming) of
objects as much as in the possibility of founding the truth of our
propositions about objects.' His primary interest is how it is possi-
ble to have a pure mathematics and a pure physics, or how it is pos-
sible to make mathematics and physics two theoretical bodies of
knowledge that must determine their objects a priori. The nucleus
of the first Critique concerns the search for a warrant for a legisla-
tion of the intellect regarding those propositions that have their
model in the Newtonian laws—and that out of necessity are some-
times exemplified by more understandable and venerable propo-
sitions such as All bodies have weight. Kant is concerned with
guaranteeing the knowledge of those laws that underpin nature
understood as the set of the objects of experience; he never doubts that
these objects of experience are also the same objects that exercised
the Empiricists so much: dogs, horses, stones, trees, or houses. But
(at least until the Critique of judgment) he seems extraordinarily un-
interested in clarifying how we know the objects of everyday expe-
rience, at least those objects that today we customarily call natural
kinds, such as camel, beech, and coleopteran. This was realized
with evident disappointment by a philosopher interested in knowl-
edge of like Husserl.8
But the disappointment was converted into
satisfaction for those who instead maintained that the problem of
knowledge (both of and that) could be resolved only in linguistic
terms, that is to say, in terms of coherency among propositions.
Rorty (1979: 3.3) takes issue with the idea that knowledge must
be "a mirror of nature," and he even wonders how it was possible
for Kant to assert that intuition offers us the manifold, when this
manifold is known only after it has already been unified in the syn-
thesis of the intellect. In this sense Kant would have made a step
forward with respect to the epistemological tradition that runs
70 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
from Aristotle to Locke, a tradition for which attempts were made
to model knowledge on perception. Kant would have liquidated
the problem of perception by stating that knowledge hinges on
propositions and not objects. Rorty is satisfied for evident reasons:
even though his idea is to overturn the very paradigm of analytic
philosophy, this is nonetheless his point of departure, even in terms
of his personal history, and therefore Kant strikes him as the first to
have suggested to the analytic tradition that it was necessary not so
much to wonder what a dog is as to wonder if the proposition Dogs
are animals is true or not.
This does not eliminate Rorty's problems, not even if he in-
tended to reduce knowledge to a purely linguistic problem, because
it prevents him from tackling the problem of the relations among
perception, language, and knowledge. That is to say, if the opposi-
tion is (if, like Rorty, we may pick up the thread of an opposition
proposed by Sellars) between "knowing how X is" and "knowing
what type of thing X is," we would still have to ask ourselves
whether in order to answer the second question it is not necessary
also to have answered the first.9
This does even less to eliminate the problems of Kant, who not
only seems uninterested in explaining how it happens that we un-
derstand how X is but also is unable to explain how we decide what
type of thing X is. In other words, the first Critique fails to deal with
the problem of how we understand that a dog is a dog, and it does
not even explain how we are able to say that a dog is a mammal.
There is nothing extraordinary about this if we reflect upon the
cultural climate in which Kant was writing. By way of examples of
rigorous knowledge that might be founded a priori, he had at his
disposal mathematical science and physical science as they had al-
ready been established for centuries, and he knew very well how to
define weight, extension, force, mass, triangle, or circle. But he did
not have a science of dogs, just as he did not have a science of beech
or lime trees, or of coleopterans. Let us not forget that when he was
writing the first Critique, only a little more than twenty years had
passed since the publication of Linnaeus's Systema Naturae, the first
tentative monument to the establishment of a classification of "nat-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 71
ural kinds." The dictionaries of the preceding century defined dog
as a "known animal"; attempts at universal classification such as
those of Dalgarno or Wilkins (seventeenth century) employed
taxonomies that today we would define as approximative.1 0
One
understands why Kant could define the concept of dog as an
empirical one; and, as he was to repeat on several occasions, we
shall never be able to know all the notes of empirical concepts.
That is why the first Critique begins (Introduction vii) with the de-
claration that in transcendental philosophy concepts containing
anything empirical must not appear: the object of the a priori syn-
thesis cannot be the nature of things, which is in itself "inex-
haustible."
Therefore, even if he realized that he was reducing knowledge
to the knowledge of propositions (and therefore to linguistic
knowledge), Kant could not have posed himself the problem,
which Peirce was to set himself, that the nature of knowledge was
not linguistic but semiosic. It is true that, while Kant could not do
this in the first Critique, he was to move in this direction in the
third, but in order to take that path he had to reckon with the dif-
ficulties encountered in the first Critique by bringing into play the
notion of the schema, of which more will be said in 2.5.
According to a Kantian example (P §23)," I can move from an
uncoordinated succession of phenomena (there is a stone, it is
struck by the sun's rays, it is hot—and, as we shall see, this is an ex-
ample of perceptual judgment) to the proposition The sun heats the
stone. If we suppose that the sun is A, the stone B, and the being hot
C, we can say that A is the cause whereby B is C.
According to the table of categories, of transcendental schemata
and of the principles of pure intellect (see fig. 2.1) the axioms of in-
tuition tell me that all intuitions are extensive quantities and,
through the schema of the number, I apply the category of the sin-
gularity to A and B; through the anticipations of perception, by ap-
plying the Schema of Degree, I state the reality (in an existential
sense, Realiidt) of the phenomenon given me by intuition. Through
the analogies with experience, I see A and B as substances, perma-
nent in time, into which I insert accidents; and I establish that the
Principles
of
Pure
Intellect
Axioms
of
intuition:
all
intuitions
arc
exten-
sive
quantities
Anticipations
of
perception:
in
all
appearances,
the
real
possesses
an
intensive
quality,
a
degree
Analogies
with
experience:
permanence
of
the
substance
Temporal
succession
according
to
causality
Simultaneity
according
to
the
reciprocal
law
Postulates
of
empirical
thought
in
general:
that
which
agrees
with
the
formal
conditions
of
experience
is
possible
That
which
is
connected
with
the
material
conditions
of
experience
is
real
Things
whose
connection
with
the
real
is
determined
by
universal
conditions
of
experience
necessarily
exist
Schemata
La
£
a
3
Degree
Permanence
of
the
real
in
time
Succession
of
the
manifold
Simultaneity
of
the
determinations
Agreement
between
the
synthesis
of
different
representations
Existence
in
a
deter-
mined
time
Existence
in
all
times
Categories
Unity
Plurality
Totality
Reality
Negation
Limitation
Subsistence
and
inherence
(substance/accident)
Causality
(cause/effect)
Community
(reciprocal
action)
Possibility/impossibility
Existence/nonexistcnce
Necessity/contingency
Judgments
Universal
Particular
Singular
Affirmative
Negative
Infinite
Categorical
Hypothetical
Disjunctive
Problematic
Assertive
Apodictic
Quantity
Quality
Relation
Modality
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 73
accident C of B is caused by A. Finally I decide that what is linked
to the material conditions of experience is real (reality in the modal
sense, Wir\lich\eit) and, for the schema of existence in a set time, I
assert that the phenomenon is effectively occurring. Equally, if the
proposition were By natural law it always and of necessity occurs that
the sun's light heats (all) stones, I should have to apply in the first in-
stance the category of unity and in the last instance that of necessity.
If we take the transcendental foundation of a priori synthetic judg-
ments as good (but this is not the matter in dispute), the Kantian
theoretical apparatus would have explained to me why I can say
with certainty that A necessarily causes the fact that B is C.
But at this point Kant has still not said how he can bind the vari-
ables: why do I perceive A as sun and B as stone? How do the con-
cepts of pure intellect intervene to make me understand a stone as
such, distinct from all the other stones in the heap, from the sun-
light that heats it, and from the rest of the universe? Those con-
cepts of the pure intellect that are the categories are too vast and far
too general to enable me to recognize the stone, the sun, and the
heat. It is true that Kant assures us (CPR/B: 94) that once a list of
primitive pure concepts has been drawn up, it is "easy" to add the
derived and subaltern ones, but, since his task was to deal with
the principles of the system rather than with the completeness of
the system, he saved this integration for another work. In any case
all we need do is consult the manuals of ontology and thereby nim-
bly subordinate the predicables of force, action, and passion to the
category of causality, or the predicables of birth, death, and change
to the category of modality. But even then we should still be on
such a high level of abstraction that we could not say This B is a
stone.
Therefore the table of categories does not allow us to say how we
perceive a stone as such. Concepts of the pure intellect are only log-
ical functions, not concepts of objects (P §39). But, if I am unable to
say not only that this A is the sun and this B is a stone but also that
this B is at least a body, all the universal and necessary laws that the
concepts of the pure intellect guarantee me are worth nothing, be-
cause they could refer to any datum of experience. Perhaps I could
74 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
say that there is an A that heats everything, whatever empirical
concept I may assign to B, but I wouldn't know what this heating
entity is, because I would not have assigned any empirical concept
to A. Concepts of the pure intellect have need not only of sensible
intuition but also of concepts of objects to which they may be ap-
plied.
The concepts of sun, stone, and air (and Kant is clear about this)
are empirical concepts, and in that sense they are not very different
from those that the Empiricists called "ideas" of genera and species.
Kant sometimes talks of generic concepts, which are concepts, but
not in the sense in which he often calls concepts the categories,
which are indeed concepts, but of the pure intellect. The cate-
gories—as we have seen—are most abstract concepts, such as unity,
reality, causality, possibility, necessity. The concept of horse is not
determined through the application of the pure concepts of the in-
tellect. An empirical concept derives from the sensations, through
comparison with the objects of experience.
Which science studies the formation of empirical concepts? Cer-
tainly not general logic, which, according to Kant, must not inves-
tigate "the source of concepts, or the way in which concepts have
their origin, insofar as they are representations..." (LI §5); however,
it seems that Kant also thought that not even critical philosophy is
entitled to undertake this task, since it should examine not how ex-
perience takes place (a task more for empirical psychology) but
what experience contains. This point of view would be admissible
only if the production of empirical concepts had nothing to do
with the legislative activity of the intellect. We would have to
know horses and houses either through manifest quiddity (as the
Aristotelian-Scholastic school had it) or through a simple process
of combination, correlation, and abstraction, which was Locke's
view.
There is a passage in the Logic that might confirm this interpre-
tation:
[T]o form concepts from representations it is therefore necessary to
be able to compare, reflect, and abstract; these three logical opera-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 75
tions of the intellect, in fact, are the essential and universal condi-
tions for the production of any concept in general. I see, for exam-
ple, a willow and a linden tree. By comparing these objects, first of
all, I note they are different from each other with regard to the
trunk, branches, leaves, etc.; but then, on reflecting only upon what
they have in common: the trunk, branches and the leaves them-
selves, and by abstracting from their size, their shape, etc., I obtain
the concept of a tree. (LI §6)
Are we really, still, at Locke? The passage would be Lockian if
words such as "intellect" retained the weak (all things considered)
meaning of "Humane Understanding." Which could not be the
case for the older Kant, who had already published the three
Critiques. Whatever work the intellect does to understand that a
willow and a linden are trees, it does not find this "arboreality" in
the sensible intuition. Without a legislative activity of the intellect,
the material of intuition remains "blind." And in any case Kant has
not told us why, on having a given intuition, I understand that it is
the intuition of linden tree.
On the other hand, even "abstracting" in Kant does not signify
to take from, to make arise from (which would still be the scholas-
tic perspective), and not even to construct through (which would be
the empiricist position): it is pure considering-separately, it is a neg-
ative condition, it is the supreme maneuver of the intellect, which
knows that the opposite of abstraction is the conceptus omnimode
determinatus, the concept of an individual, which in Kant's system
is impossible: the sensible intuition must be elaborated by the intel-
lect and illuminated by general or generic determinations.
And as a matter of fact the passage was perhaps a response to ex-
igencies of didactic simplification—in a text that is a collection of
notes taken and then certainly reelaborated by others in the course
of his lessons—because it is in clear contrast with what is said two
pages before (I, 3): "[T]he empirical concept derives from the senses
by comparison of the objects of experience and thanks to the intel-
lect it receives only the form of universality."
Only?
76 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
2.4 PERCEPTUAL JUDGMENTS
When Kant dealt with empirical psychology in the decade prior to
the first Critique (and here too the reference is to lessons given out
of necessity and transcribed by others),1 2
he already knew that in-
formation provided by the senses was insufficient, because you
need the intellect that reflects on what the senses have put before it.
The fact we think we know things on the sole basis of the testi-
mony of the senses depends on a vitium subreptionis: from infancy
we are so used to grasping things as if they appeared to us already
given in the intuition, that we have never considered the role
played by the intellect in this process. Being unaware that the intel-
lect is in action does not mean that it is not working: and so in the
Logic (Intr. I) many automatisms of this kind are mentioned, as for
example when we talk and therefore show we know the rules of
language, but if someone asked us which rules, we would be un-
able to reply, and perhaps we would not even be able to say they
exist.
Today we would say that to obtain an empirical concept we must
be able to produce a perceptual judgment. But by perception we in-
tend a complex act, an interpretation of sensible data that involves
memory and culture and that ultimately results in the understand-
ing of the nature of the object. On the other hand, Kant talks of
perceptio or Wahrnehmung only as a "representation with conscious-
ness." Such perceptions can be subdivided into sensations, which
simply modify the state of the subject, and forms of objective
knowledge. As such they can be empirical intuitions, which
through the sensation refer to the singular object, and they are still
appearances, devoid of concept, blind. Or they are imbued with
concept, through a distinctive sign common to many things, a note
(CPR/B: 249).
For Kant, then, what is a perceptual judgment (Wahrnehmung-
surteil) and how is it distinguishable from a judgment on the basis
of experience (Ehrfahrungsurteil)? Perceptual judgments are a
lower-order logical activity (LI §57) that creates the subjective
world of personal consciousness; they are judgments such as When
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 77
sunlight bathes a stone, the stone is heated; they can also be mistaken
and are in any event contingent (P §20, §23). Judgments based on
experience instead establish a necessary connection (e.g., they in
fact assert, The sun heats the stone)}1
It seems therefore that the cat-
egories intervene only in judgments based on experience.
But then why are perceptual judgments "judgments"? Judg-
ment is not immediate but mediated knowledge of an object, and
in all judgments we find a concept that holds good for a plurality of
representations (CPR/B: 85). It cannot be denied that having the
representation of the stone and its heating already represents a uni-
fication actuated in the manifold of the sensible: to unify represen-
tations in the consciousness is already "to think" and "to judge"
(P §22), and judgments are a priori rules (P §23). If we were not
satisfied, "all synthesis, without which even perception would be
impossible, is subject to the categories" (CRP/B: 125). It cannot
be that (as is said in the P §21) the a priori principles of the possi-
bility of every experience are propositions (Sdtze) that subor-
dinate all perception to intellectual concepts (Verstandesbegriffe). A
Wahrnehmungsurteil is already deeply imbued with Verstandesbe-
griffe. There's no way around it, recognizing a stone as such is al-
ready a perceptual judgment, a perceptual judgment is a judgment,
and therefore it too depends on the legislation of the intellect. The
manifold is given in the sensible intuition, but the conjunction of a
manifold in general can come to us only through an act of synthesis
on the part of the intellect.1 4
In short, Kant postulates a notion of empirical concept and of
perceptual judgment (a crucial problem for the Empiricists), but he
does not manage to pull either of them out of the mire, from that
muddy ground between sensible intuition and the legislatory activ-
ity of the intellect. But for his critical theory this no-man's-land
cannot exist.
The various phases of knowledge, in Kant, could be represented
by a series of verbalizations in this sequence:
i- This stone.
2. This is a stone (or Here there is a stone).
78 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
3a. This stone is white.
3b. This stone is hard.
4. This stone is a mineral and a body.
5. If I throw this stone, it will fall back to earth.
6. All stones (insofar as they are minerals and therefore bodies)
have weight.
The first Critique certainly deals with propositions like (5) and
(6), it is debatable whether it really deals with propositions like (4),
and it certainly is vague about the legitimacy of propositions like
(1) and (3b). It is legitimate to wonder if (1) and (2) express differ-
ent locutionary acts. With the exception of infantile holophrastic
language, it is impossible to conceive of someone who, when con-
fronted with a stone, utters (1)—if anything, this syntagm could
occur only in (3a) or (3b). But no one has ever said that there must
be a verbalization in correspondence with every phase of under-
standing, and the same freedom holds good even for acts of self-
consciousness. Someone could walk along a road at whose sides
stand heaps of stones, without paying any attention to them; but if
he were asked what there was along the road, he could very well
reply that there were only stones.1 5
Therefore, if the fullness of per-
ception is in fact already a perceptual judgment—and if we wanted
to verbalize it at all costs, we would have (1) which is not a propo-
sition and therefore does not imply judgment—by the time we get
to the point of verbalizing it, we are immediately at (2).
Therefore, when questioned with regard to what he has seen or
is presently looking at, someone who has seen a stone will either
answer (2) or there will be no guarantee of his having perceived
anything. As for (3a) and (3b), the subject can have all the possible
sensations of whiteness or hardness, but the moment he predicates
whiteness or hardness, he has already entered the categorial, and
the quality he predicates is applied to a substance, precisely to de-
termine it at least from one respect or capacity. Perhaps he might
start from something expressible, such as This white thing or This
hard thing, but even so he would already have begun the work of
hypothesis—and it is worth observing that this would be the situa-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 79
tion typical of a person who sees a platypus for the first time, a
swimming thing with fur and a beak.
It remains for us to decide what happens when our subject says
that that stone is a mineral and a body. Peirce would have said that
we have already entered the moment of interpretation, whereas for
Kant we have constructed a generic concept (but as we have seen,
he is very vague about this). The real Kantian problem, however,
concerns (1—3).
There is a difference between (3a) and (3b). For Locke, while the
first expresses a simple secondary idea (color), the second expresses
a simple primary idea. Primary and secondary are qualifications of
objectivity, not of the certainty of perception. One by no means ir-
relevant problem is whether, on seeing a red apple or a white stone,
I can also understand that the apple is white and juicy inside, and
that the stone is hard inside and has weight. We might say that the
difference lies in whether the object perceived is already an effect
of the segmentation of the continuum or whether it is an unknown
object. If we see a stone, we "know," in the very act of understand-
ing that it is a stone, what it is like inside. Someone who sees a fos-
sil of coralline origin for the first time (in the form of a stone, but
red in color) still does not know what it is like inside.
But also in the case of the known object, what does it mean to
say "we know" that the stone, white on the outside, is hard inside?
Were someone to ask us such an irritating question, we might re-
ply: "That's the way I imagine it, stones are usually like that."
It seems curious to put an imagining at the foundation of a
generic concept. What does "imagine" mean? There is a difference
between "to imagine," in the sense of calling up an image (we are
now in the realm of fancy, the delineation of possible worlds, as
when my desire portrays a stone I would like to find to crack a nut
with—and this process does not call for the experience of the
senses) and "to imagine," in the sense that, on seeing a stone as
such, precisely on account of and in concomitance with the sensible
impressions that have stimulated my visual organs, I know (but I do
not see) that it is hard. What interests us is this second kind of
"imagining." The first sense, as Kant would have put it, might as
80 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
well be left to empirical psychology; but the second sense is crucial
for a theory of understanding, of the perception of things, or—in
Kantian terms—in the construction of empirical concepts (not to
mention the fact that, even imagining in the first sense, wishing for
a stone with which to crack a nut, is possible because, when I imag-
ine, a stone, I imagine, that it is hard).
Wilfrid Sellars (1978) proposes using the term imagining for to
imagine, and imaging for to imagine,. For reasons that shall soon
be clear, I propose to translate imaging with "to figure" (both in the
sense of constructing a figure, of delineating a structural frame-
work, and in the sense in which we say, on seeing the stone, "I fig-
ure" it is hard inside).
In this act of figuring some properties of the stone, we make a
choice, we figure it in a certain respect or capacity: if on seeing or
imagining the stone, I did not intend to crack a nut but to drive off
a bothersome animal, I would also see the stone in terms of its dy-
namic possibilities, as an object that can be projected and that, inso-
far as it has weight, has the property of falling toward the target
rather than rising in the air.
This figuring in order to understand and understanding by fig-
uring is crucial to the Kantian system: it reveals itself as essential
both for the transcendental grounding of empirical concepts and
for permitting perceptual judgments (implicit and nonverbalized)
such as This stone.
2.5 T H E SCHEMA
In Kantian theory it is necessary to explain why categories that are
so astrally abstract can be applied to the concreteness of the sensible
intuition. I see the sun and the stone, and I must be able to think
that star (in a singular judgment) or all stones (in a universal judg-
ment, even more complex, because in point of fact I have seen only
one stone, or a few, heated by the sun). Now, "Special laws, there-
fore, as they refer to phenomena which are empirically determined,
cannot be completely derived from the categories, [...] Experience
must be superadded" (CPR/B: 127). But, since the pure concepts of
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 81
the intellect are heterogeneous with respect to sensible intuitions,
"in comprehending any object under a concept" (CPR/B: 1 3 3 , but
in reality one should say "in every subsumption of the subject of the
intuition under a concept, so that an object may arise"), we need a
third mediating element that, so to speak, makes it possible for the
concept to wrap itself around the intuition and renders the concept
applicable to the intuition. In this way the need for a transcendental
schema comes into being.
The transcendental schema is a product of the imagination. Let
us leave aside the discrepancy between the first and second edition
of the Critique of Pure Reason, whereby in the first edition the
Imagination is one of the three faculties of the soul, together with
Sense (which empirically represents appearances in perception) and
Apperception, while in the second edition Imagination becomes
only a capacity of the intellect, an effect produced by the intellect
on the sensibility. In the view of many interpreters, including
Heidegger, this transformation is enormously relevant, to such a
degree that one is obliged to go back to the first edition and over-
look the second thoughts found in its successor. From our point of
view this issue is secondary. Let us grant therefore that the Imagi-
nation, whatever faculty or activity it may be, provides the intellect
with a schema, so that it can apply it to the intuition. Imagination is
the capacity to represent an object even without its being present in
the intuition (it is "reproductive" in the sense that we have called to
imagine,), or it is synthesis speciosa, productive imagination of a
species, figure.
This synthesis is that whereby the empirical concept of plate can
be thought by means of the pure geometric concept of the circle,
because "the roundness which is conceived in the first" forms an
intuition in the second (CPR/B: 134). Despite this example, the
schema is not an image; and therefore it becomes clear here why I
preferred "figure" to "imagine." For example, the schema of num-
ber is not a quantitative image, as if I imagined the number 5 in the
form of five dots lined up one after the other, like this:
It is evident that in such a way I could never imagine the
number 1,000, not to mention greater numbers. The schema of
82 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
number is "rather the representation of a method of representing
in one image a certain quantity...according to a certain concept"
(CPR/B: 135), so that one could understand Peano's five axioms as
the elements of a schema for the representation of numbers: zero is
a number; the successor of every number is a number; there are no
numbers with the same successor; zero is not the successor of any
number; every property of the zero, and the successor of any num-
ber with those properties, belongs to all numbers—so that any se-
ries xo, x i , X 2 , X3...xn, which is infinite, contains no repetitions, has
a beginning, and does not contain terms that cannot be reached
starting from the first, in a finite number of passages, is a series of
numbers.
In the preface to the second edition of the first Critique, Kant
mentions Thales, who from the figure of one isosceles triangle, in
order to discover the properties of all isosceles triangles, did not fol-
low step by step what he saw, but had to produce, to construct the
isosceles triangle in general.
The schema is not an image, because the image is a product of
the reproductive imagination, while the schema of sensible con-
cepts (also of figures in space) is a product of the pure a priori
capacity to imagine "a monogram, so to say" (CPR/B: 136). If any-
thing one should say that the Kantian schema, more than what is
commonly understood as a "mental image" (which evokes the idea
of a photograph), is like Wittgenstein's Bild, a proposition that has
the same form as the fact it represents, in the same sense in which
we talk of an "iconic" relation for an algebraic formula, or of a
"model" in the technical-scientific sense.
In order to gain a better understanding of the concept of schema,
perhaps we need to consider what computer operators call a flow-
chart. The machine is capable of "thinking" in terms of IF...
THEN GOTO, but this is an overly abstract logical device, given
that it can serve us both for making a calculation and for drawing a
geometrical figure. The flowchart shows us the steps that the ma-
chine must perform and that we must order it to perform. Given
one operation, at a certain juncture in the process a possible alter-
native is produced, and, depending on the answer that appears, a
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 83
choice needs to be made; depending on the new answer, it is neces-
sary to return to a higher node of the chart, or proceed beyond, and
so on. The chart has something that can be intuited in spatial
terms, but at the same time it is substantially based on a temporal
course (the flow), in the same way as Kant observes that the
schemata are based fundamentally on time.
This idea of the flowchart seems to explain rather well what
Kant meant by the schematic rule that governs the conceptual con-
struction of geometrical figures. No image of a triangle, which I
find in experience—the face of a pyramid, for example—can ever
provide adequate cover for the concept of triangle in general,
which must hold good for all triangles, be they right-angled, isosce-
les, or scalene (CPR/B: 136, 1—10). The schema is proposed as a rule
for the construction in any situation of a figure having the general
properties of triangles (let us say, even without talking in strictly
mathematical terms, that one of the prescribed steps the schema
obliges me to take is that, if I have arranged three toothpicks on the
table, I must not seek a fourth but must for the time being close the
figure with the three toothpicks available).1 6
Kant reminds us that we cannot think of a line without tracing it
in our thoughts; we cannot think of a circle without describing it (I
believe that in order to describe it I must have a rule that tells me
that all the points of the circle must be equidistant from the center).
We cannot represent the three spatial dimensions without putting
three lines perpendicular to one another. We cannot even represent
time without tracing a straight line (CPR/B: 120, 21 ff.). Note that
at this point we have radically modified what we defined at the be-
ginning as Kant's implicit semiotics, because thinking is not just
the application of pure concepts deriving from a previous verbal-
ization, it is also the entertaining of diagrammatic representations.
As well as time, memory comes into the construction of these di-
agrammatic representations: in the first edition of the Critique
(CPR/A: 78-79), Kant says that if while counting I forget that the
units now present to my senses have been added gradually, I cannot
know the production of pluralities through successive addition,
and therefore I cannot even know the number. If in thought I were
84 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
to trace a line, or if I wished to think of the time between one noon
and the next, but in the process of addition I always lost the pre-
ceding representations (the first parts of the line, the preceding
parts in time), I would never have a complete representation.
We can see how schematism works in the anticipations of per-
ception, a really fundamental principle because it implies that ob-
servable reality is a segmentable continuum. How can we anticipate
what we have not yet sensibly intuited? We must work as if de-
grees might be inserted into experience (as if one could digitize the
continuous) without this causing our digitization to exclude infi-
nite other intermediate degrees. Cassirer points out that if we were
to admit that in the instant a a body manifests itself in the state x
and in the instant b it manifests itself in the state x, without having
passed through the intermediate values between these two, then we
would conclude that we were not dealing with the "same" body:
we would assert that the body that was in the state x in the moment
a, had disappeared, and that in the moment b another body ap-
peared in the state x. The upshot is that the assumption of the con-
tinuity of physical changes is not a singular result of observation
but a presupposition of knowledge of nature in general, and there-
fore it is one of those principles that govern the construction of the
schemata (Cassirer 1918, III, 3).
2.6 A N D THE DOG?
So much for the schemata of the pure concepts of the intellect. But
it so happens that it is precisely in the chapter on schematism that
Kant introduces examples concerning empirical concepts. It is not
only a matter of seeing how the schema allows us to homogenize
the concepts of unity and reality, inherence and subsistence, possi-
bility and so on with the manifold of the intuition. There is also the
schema of the dog: "[T]he concept of dog means a rule, according
to which my imagination can always draw a general outline of the
figure of a four-footed animal, without being restricted to any par-
ticular figure supplied by experience or to any possible image
which I may draw in the concrete" (CPR/B: 136).
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 85
It is no accident that after this example, a few lines later, Kant
wrote the renowned phrase according to which this schematism of
our intellect, which also concerns the simple/brrw of appearances, is
an art concealed in the depths of the human soul. It is an art, a pro-
cedure, a task, a construction, but we know very little of how it
works. Because it is clear that our nice little analogy with the flow-
chart, which might help us understand how the schematic con-
struction of the triangle proceeds, works far less well in the case of
the dog.
A computer can certainly construct the image of a dog, provided
it is given suitable algorithms: but it is not by examining the flow-
chart for the construction of the dog that a person who has never
seen a dog can have a mental image (whatever a mental image may
be) of one. Once more we find ourselves faced with a lack of homo-
geneity between categories and intuition, and the fact that the
schema of the dog can be verbalized as "quadruped animal" brings
us back only to the extreme abstractness of every predication by
genus and differentia, but it does not allow us to distinguish a dog
from a horse.
Deleuze (1963) observes that the schema consists not of an image
but of spatiotemporal relations that embody or realize some purely con-
ceptual relations, and this seems exact as far as the schemata of con-
cepts of pure intellect are concerned. But it does not seem to be
sufficient when it comes to empirical concepts, since Kant was the
first to tell us that in order to think of a plate, I must resort to
the image of the circle. While the schema of the circle is not an im-
age but a rule for constructing the image if necessary, the empirical
concept of the plate should nonetheless include the notion that its
form may be constructed in some way—in a visual sense, to be ex-
act.
One must conclude that when Kant thinks of the schema of the
dog, he is thinking of something very similar to that which, in the
sphere of the present-day cognitive sciences, Marr and Nishishara
(1978) call a "3-D Model," which they represent as in figure 2.2.
In perceptual judgment the 3-D model is applied to the mani-
fold of experience, and we distinguish an x as a man and not as a
86 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Human
Figure 2.2
dog. Which ought to demonstrate how a perceptual judgment does
not necessarily boil down to a verbal assertion. In fact it is based on
the application of a structural diagram to the manifold of sensation.
The fact that other judgments are necessary to determine the con-
cept of man in all its possible properties (and, as happens with all
empirical concepts, the task seems infinite, never fully realized) is
another matter. With a 3-D model I could even confuse a man with
a primate and vice versa—but it would be difficult for me to mis-
take him for a snake. The fact is that in some way one starts off
from a schema of this kind, even before knowing or asserting that
man has a soul, that he talks, or even that he has an opposable
thumb.
At this point we might say that the schema of the empirical con-
cept comes to coincide with the concept of the object: in fact, we
might say that around the schema a kind of trinity comes to be con-
structed, whose three "persons" are in the final analysis one and
one alone (even though they can be considered the three points of
view): schema, concept, and meaning. Producing the schema of the
dog means having at least one essential concept of it. Does a 3-D
model of man correspond to a concept of "man"? Certainly not as
far as the classic definition (mortal rational animal) is concerned;
but as far as the possibility of recognizing a human being is con-
cerned, and then of being able to add the determinations that de-
rive from this first identification, it certainly does. Which explains
why in the Logic (II, 103) Kant noted that a synthesis of empirical
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 87
concepts can never come to an end, because in the course of experi-
ence it will still be possible to identify other notes of the object dog
or man. But unfortunately, using an overly strong expression, Kant
said that therefore empirical concepts "cannot even be defined."
They cannot be defined once and for all, like mathematical con-
cepts, but admit of a first nucleus around which successive defini-
tions will gel (or arrange themselves harmoniously).
Can we say that this first conceptual nucleus is also the meaning
that corresponds to the term with which we express it? Kant does
not use the word meaning (Bedeutung) very often, but, fancy that,
he uses it precisely when talking of the schema: concepts are wholly
impossible, nor can they have any meaning, unless an object is
given either to them or at least to the elements of which they con-
sist (CPR/B: 135). Kant is suggesting in a less explicit way that co-
incidence of linguistic meaning and perceptual meaning that was
later to be energetically asserted by Husserl: a red object is recog-
nized as red and denominated as red as the result of a single act.
"All things considered to denominate as red—in the sense of present
denomination, which presupposes the underlying intuition of the
denominated—and to recognize as red are expressions whose mean-
ings are identical" (Logical Investigations vi, 7: 327).
But if this is so, not only the notion of empirical concept but also
the notion of the meaning of terms that refer to perceivable objects
(e.g., names of natural kinds) introduces a new problem. And this
is that the first nucleus of meaning, the one identified with the con-
ceptual schema, may not be reduced to a mere classificatory datum:
a dog is not understood and identified (and recognized) because it
is a mammalian animal but because it has a certain form (and for
the time being let us allow this term to keep all its Aristotelian con-
notations, despite their being highly dangerous in this context).
As we have just seen, the concept of plate must also have a corre-
spondence with that of circularity, and Kant tells us that the
schema of dog includes its having legs and that there are four of
them. A man (in the sense of a member of the human race) is
nonetheless still something that moves in accordance with the artic-
ulations provided for by the 3-D model.
88 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Where does this schema come from? While in the case of the
schema of geometrical figures, it sufficed to reflect on the pure in-
tuition of space, and therefore the schema could be drawn from the
very constitution of our intellect, this is certainly not the case with
the schema (and therefore the concept) of dog. Otherwise we
would have a repertoire, if not of innate ideas, of innate schemata:
a repertoire including the schema of doghood, horsehood, and so
on, until we had exhausted the inventory of the entire universe.
And in that case we should also be equipped with an innate schema
of the platypus, even before ever having seen one, otherwise we
would not be able to think of one if we saw one. It is eminently
clear that Kant could not endorse a Platonism of this sort (and
whether Plato did or not is a matter for debate).
So, the Empiricists would have said, the schema is drawn from
experience: the schema of the dog is none other than the Lockian
idea of dog. But this statement is unacceptable in Kant's view, see-
ing that experience occurs precisely by applying the schemata. I
cannot abstract the schema of dog from intuitive data, because the
data become thinkable precisely as a consequence of the application
of the schema. And therefore we are in a vicious circle, which the
first Critique (and I think this can be said with some confidence)
does nothing to get us out of.
Which leaves only one solution: by reflecting upon the data from
the sensible intuition, by comparing them, assessing them, by using
an innate and secret art hidden in the deepest profundities of the
human soul (and therefore of our own transcendental apparatus),
we do not abstract but construct the schemata. While we have been
taught the schema of dog—and we don't even realize when we ap-
ply it, since by vitium subreptionis we are led to believe that we are
seeing a dog because we are receiving sensations—Kant (as we
have seen) saw it as a side effect of the quasi-unconscious way in
which we put the transcendental apparatus to work.
That Kantian schematism implies—in the sense that it cannot
but bring us to think about it—a constructivism is not an original
idea, especially in the return to Kant discernible in many contem-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 89
porary cognitive sciences. But that the schema can and must be a
construction should not emerge so much from the fact that previ-
ously constructed schemata (e.g., that of the dog) apply; the real
problem is What happens when we must construct the schema of an
object that is as yet unknown?
2.7 T H E PLATYPUS
The choice of the platypus as an example of an unknown object
does not spring from mere whimsy. The platypus was discovered
in Australia at the end of the eighteenth century and was first
named "water mole," "duck mole," or "duck-billed platypus." In
1799, a stuffed specimen was examined in England, and the natu-
ralists could not believe their eyes, with the result that some insinu-
ated it was a practical joke on the part of a taxidermist. In 4.5.1, I
shall come to the story of how it was studied and defined. When
the platypus made its appearance in the Western world, Kant had
already written his works (the last work published was Anthropol-
ogy from a Pragmatic Point of View, 1798). By the time people began
talking about the platypus, Kant was already senile; it may be that
someone had mentioned it to him, but the information would have
been inaccurate in any case. By the time it was finally decided that
the platypus was an egg-laying mammal, Kant had been dead for
eighty years. We are therefore free to conduct our mental experi-
ment and to decide what Kant would have done had he come
across a platypus.
It would have been a matter of figuring the schema, starting
from sense impressions, but these sense impressions are not suited
to any previous schema. How could one reconcile the beak and the
webbed feet with the fur and the beaver tail, or the idea of beaver
with the idea of an oviparous animal; how could one see a bird
where there was a quadruped? Kant would have found himself in
the same situation as Aristotle when, after drawing up all possible
rules for distinguishing ruminants from the other animals, no mat-
ter which way he turned, he never managed to find a place for the
90 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
camel, which eluded all definition by genus and differentia. Had
Aristotle tried to make one fit, he would have had to chase another
ruminant, the ox, out of its own definitory space.1
'
Some would be tempted to say that Aristotle would have found
himself in an even more awkward position, because, since he
would have been convinced that a platypus had to have an essence
independent of our intellect, the impossibility of finding a defini-
tion for it would have disquieted him all the more. Kant, the con-
futer of idealism, would also have known very well that if the
platypus offered him a sensible intuition, then it was and therefore
could necessarily be thought; and no matter where the form that he
conferred upon it sprang from, it had to be possible to construct it.
What problem would Kant have faced if he had encountered a
platypus? The terms of the problem became clear to him only in
the Critique of Judgment. Judgment is the faculty of thinking of the
particular as part of the general, and if the general (the rule, the
law) is already given, judgment is determinant. But if only the par-
ticular is given and the general must be sought for, judgment is reflec-
tive.
By introducing schematism to the first version of the system, as
Peirce suggested, Kant found himself with an explosive concept
that obliged him to go further: in the direction of the Critique of
Judgment, in fact. But, we might say, once we arrive at reflective
judgment from the schema, the very nature of determinant judg-
ment enters a crisis. Because the capacity of determinant judgment
(we finally find this clearly spelled out in the chapter of the Critique
of Judgment on the dialectic of the capacity of teleological judg-
ment) "does not have in itself principles that found concepts of ob-
jects," determinant judgment limits itself to subsuming objects
under given laws or concepts such as principles. "Thus the capacity
of transcendental judgment, which contained the conditions for
subsumption under categories, was not in itself nomothetic, but
simply indicated the conditions of the sensible intuition under
which a given concept may be given reality (application)." There-
fore any concept of an object, if it is to be founded, must be fixed by
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 91
the reflective judgment, which "must subsume under a law that is
yet to be given" (CJ §69).
As far as Kant is concerned, nature is before our eyes, and his
native realism prevents him from thinking that the objects of na-
ture are not there, functioning in a certain way, given that they de-
velop by themselves. One tree produces another tree—of the same
species—and at the same time grows and therefore also produces
itself as an individual; and the bud of one tree leaf grafted onto the
branch of another tree produces yet another plant of the same
species; the tree lives as a whole at which the parts converge, since
the leaves are produced by the tree, but defoliation would have an
effect on the growth of the trunk. Therefore the tree lives and
grows by following its own internal organic law (CJ §64).
But what this law is cannot be known from the tree, given that
the phenomenal teaches us nothing about the noumenal. Nor do the
a priori forms of the pure intellect teach us anything, because the
entities of nature obey a plethora of particular laws. And yet they
should be considered necessary according to the principle of the
unity of the manifold, which is moreover unknown to us.
These objects of nature are (apart from those highly general laws
that allow us to think of the phenomena of physics) dogs, horses,
stones—and platypuses. We must be able to say how these objects
are organized into genera and species, but—and mark this—gen-
era and species are not only a classificatory judgment of ours: "[I]n
nature there is a subordination of genera and species that we can
grasp; in their turn the genera approximate themselves to one an-
other according to a common principle, so that it is possible to
move from one to the other, and with that, to a higher genus"
(CJ Intr. V).
And so we try to construct the concept of tree (we assume it) as if
the trees were as we can think them. We imagine something as
possible according to the concept (we try for an agreement between
the form and the possibility of the thing itself, even though we have
no concept of it), and we can think of it as an organism that obeys
certain ends.
92 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
To interpret something as if it were in a certain way means
proposing a hypothesis, because the reflective judgment must sub-
sume under a law not yet given "and therefore in fact it is only a
principle of reflection on objects for which objectively there is ab-
solutely no law or a concept of the object sufficient for the cases
that arise" (CJ §69). And it must be a very adventurous type of hy-
pothesis, because from the particular (from a Result) it is necessary
to infer a Rule as yet unknown; and in order to find the Rule some-
where or other it is necessary to presume that that Result is a Case
of the Rule to be constructed. Of course Kant did not express him-
self in these terms, but Peirce the Kantian did: it is clear that reflec-
tive judgment is none other than an abduction.
In this abductive process, as we have said, the genera and species
are not merely arbitrary classifications—and if they were such, they
could become established only after abduction has taken place, in
an advanced phase of conceptual elaboration. In the light of the
third Critique it has to be admitted that, insofar as it is teleological,
the reflective judgment assigns a character of "animality" (or of
"living being") to the object already in the course of schematic
structure. Let us reflect on what would have happened to Kant if
he had seen a platypus. He would have had the intuition of a mul-
tiplicity of characteristics that obliged him to construct the schema
of an autonomous being, not moved by external forces, that could
manifestly coordinate its own movements, an organic and func-
tional relation between beak (which permits it to take food), feet
(which permit it to swim), head, trunk, and tail. The animality of
the object would have suggested itself as the fundamental element
of the perceptual schema, not as a successive abstract attribution
(which would only have ratified conceptually what the schema al-
ready contained).1 8
Had Kant been able to observe the platypus (its morphology, us-
age, and customs) as was done gradually over the two centuries
that followed, he would probably have come to the same conclu-
sion as Gould (1991: 227): this animal, which was already present
during the Mesozoic, before the other mammals of the Tertiary pe-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 93
riod, and whose evolution never went any further, does not repre-
sent a clumsy attempt on nature's part to produce something better
but is a masterpiece of design, a fantastic example of environmental
adaptation, which permitted a mammal to survive and flourish in
rivers. Its fur seems to have been created specifically to protect it
from cold water; it can regulate its own body heat; all its morphol-
ogy makes it suited to diving into water to find food with eyes and
ears closed; its front limbs enable it to swim; the rear limbs and the
tail serve as a rudder; the renowned rear spurs equip the male to
compete with other males in the mating season. The platypus has,
in short, a most original structure, perfectly designed for the pur-
poses to which it is intended. But probably Gould could not have
given this "teleological" reading of the platypus, if Kant had not
suggested to us that "an organized product of nature is one in
which all is end and, reciprocally, means too" (CJ §66) and that the
products of nature manifest themselves (unlike machines, moved
by a mere driving force, bewegende Kraft) as organisms moved in-
ternally by a bildende Kraft, a capacity, a formative force.
And yet Gould, in his attempt to define this bildende Kraft,
found nothing better to do than fall back on the metaphor of de-
sign, which is a way of modeling nonnatural entities. I don't think
that Kant could have said Gould was wrong; if he had, he would
have found himself in a felicitous contradiction. The fact is that the
Capacity of Judgment, once it has emerged as reflective and teleo-
logical, overwhelms and dominates the entire universe of the cog-
nizable and informs all thinkable objects, even a chair. It is true
that a chair, as an art object, could be judged only insofar as it is
beautiful, a pure example of an end without a purpose and univer-
sality without a concept, a source of pleasure without interest, the
result of a free play of the imagination and the intellect. But at this
point it does not take much to add a rule and a purpose whence we
sought to abstract them, and the chair will be seen in accordance
with the intention of the person who conceived it as a functional
object, whose end is intended for its function, organically struc-
tured so that all its parts sustain the whole.
94 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
It is Kant who passes with a certain nonchalance from teleologi-
cal judgments on natural entities to teleological judgments on
products of artifice:
If someone were to perceive, in a seemingly uninhabited land, a
geometric figure, drawn on the sand, a regular hexagon let us say,
then his reflection, by elaborating a concept of that figure, would
realize through the reason, albeit obscurely, the unity of the princi-
ple of generation of this hexagon, and so, in conformity with rea-
son, he would deem that neither the sand, not the sea nearby, nor
the winds, nor even the animals with their tracks, which he knows,
nor any other cause devoid of reason are the foundations of the
possibility of this figure: because a coincidence with this concept,
which is possible only in the reason, would seem to him so infinitely
contingent that there might as well be no natural law in that re-
gaYd; and it would seem to him as a consequence that there is not
even a cause in nature (which produces effects in a merely mechan-
ical manner) able to contain the causality for this effect, but that
only the concept of this object can, as a concept that only the reason
can provide and with which it can compare the object, and that as a
consequence that object can certainly be considered as an end, but
not as a natural end: therefore, as a product of art (vestigium hominis
video). (CJ §64)
Kant is certainly among those who have convinced philosophers
that it is legitimate to construct a sentence that in the Academy edi-
tion runs to twenty-two lines before the full stop finally arrives, but
he makes a good job of telling us how to develop an abduction
worthy of Robinson Crusoe. And if someone were to observe that
in this case art has nonetheless imitated a regular figure, which is
not invented by art but produced by pure mathematical intuition, it
should suffice to mention an example given shortly before the one
quoted here: where, by way of an example of empirical ends (as op-
posed to the pure one of the circle, which seems to have been con-
ceived with a view to highlighting all the demonstrations that can
be deduced from it), he proposes a fine garden, and certainly a fine
garden in the French style, in which nature bows before art, with
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 95
its well-ordered flower beds and avenues; and talks of ends, empir-
ical ones, agreed, and real, insofar as we are well aware that the
garden has been arranged in accordance with a purpose and a func-
tion. It can be said that seeing the garden or the chair as organisms
with ends calls for a less adventurous hypothesis, because I already
know that artificial objects obey the intentions of the creator, while
for nature judgment postulates the end (and indirectly a creative
constructiveness, a sort of natura naturans) as the only possibility of
understanding it. But in any case even the artificial object cannot
but be informed by reflective judgment.
It would be optimistic to say that this teleological version of the
schema is exposed with absolute clarity in the third Critique too.
See, for example, the celebrated §59, which has caused rivers of ink
to flow on the part of those who have sought to rediscover in Kant
the elements of a philosophy of language. Above all he delineates
therein a difference between schemata, proper to the pure concepts
of the intellect, and examples (Beispiele) that hold good for empiri-
cal concepts. In itself the idea is not devoid of charm: in the schema
of the dog or the tree "prototypical" ideas come into play, as if
through the ostension of one dog (or of the image of a single dog)
one could represent all dogs. Nonetheless, we would still have to
decide how this image, which must mediate between the manifold
of the intuition and the concept, may not already be interwoven
with concepts—to be the image of a dog in general and not of that
dog. And, once again, which "example" of dog would mediate be-
tween intuition and concept, seeing that for empirical concepts it
really seems that the schema comes to coincide precisely with the
possibility of figuring a generic concept?
Immediately afterward it is said that the sensible exhibition
of something ("hypotyposis") can be schematic when a concept
grasped by the intellect is given a corresponding intuition (and this
holds good for the schema of the circle, indispensable for under-
standing the concept of "plate"); but it is symbolic when a concept
that only the reason can think of, there being no corresponding in-
tuition, is supplied by analogy: as would happen if I wanted to
represent the monarchical state as a human body. Here Kant is
96 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
certainly talking not only of symbols in the logical-formal sense but
also of phenomena such as metaphor or allegory.
Therefore a gap still remains between schemata and symbols.
While for the platypus I can say that the first impact was meta-
phorical ("water mole"), the same cannot be said of the dog.
There is a gap, which I believe Kant tried to bridge in the Opus
Postumum. Of which, without going into its labyrinthine complex-
ities, one can say that Kant was trying even harder to determine
the various particular laws of physics that cannot be deduced from
the categories only. In order to ground physics, Kant had to postu-
late the ether as a material that, diffused throughout cosmic space,
is found in and permeates all objects.
External perceptions, as the stuff of a possible experience, which
lack only the form of their connection, are the effect of the moving
(or driving) forces of matter. Now, to mediate the application of
these motive forces to the relations that present themselves to expe-
rience, it is necessary to identify empirical laws. They are not given
a priori but need concepts constructed by us (selbstgemachte). These
are not concepts given by reason or experience but factitious con-
cepts. They are problematic (and we should remember that a prob-
lematic judgment depends on the Postulate of Empirical Thought
in General, whereby that which agrees with the formal conditions
of experience is possible).
These concepts must be thought of as the foundation of natural
inquiry. We must therefore postulate (in the case of the factitious
concept of ether) an absolute whole subsisting in matter.
Kant repeats on various occasions that this concept is not a hy-
pothesis but a postulate of reason, but his distrust of the term hy-
pothesis has Newtonian roots: in fact a concept (built, so to speak,
on nothing) that makes possible the totality of experience is an ab-
duction that appeals, in order to explain some Results, to a Rule
constructed ex novo.19
Nor should we let ourselves be distracted by
the fact that the postulate of ether was subsequently proved erro-
neous: it worked well enough for a long time, and good abductions
(just think of the theories of epicycles and deferents) endure for
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 97
long periods, until a more suitable, more economical, and more
powerful abduction comes onto the scene.
As Vittorio Mathieu observes with regard to Kant's last work,
"The intellect makes experience by designing the structure accord-
ing to which the driving forces of the object can act." Rather than
observe (and thence produce schemata), the reflective judgment
produces schemata to be able to observe, and to experiment. And
"such doctrine goes beyond that of the first Critique for the free-
dom that it assigns to the intellectual designing of the object."2 0
With this late schematism the intellect does not construct the
simple determination of a possible object but makes the object, con-
structs it, and in the course of this activity (problematic in itself) it
proceeds by trial and error.
At this point the notion of trial and error becomes crucial. If the
schema of empirical concepts is a construct that tries to make the
objects of nature thinkable, and if a complete synthesis of empirical
concepts can never be given, because new notes of the concept
(LI §103) can always be discovered through experience, then the
schemata themselves can only be revisable, fallible, and destined to
evolve in time. If the pure concepts of the intellect could constitute
a sort of atemporal repertoire, empirical concepts could only be-
come "historic," or cultural, if you will.2 2
Kant did not "say" this, but it seems hard not to say it if the doc-
trine of schematism is carried to its logical conclusions. In any case
this was the understanding of Peirce, who put the entire cognitive
process down to hypothetical inference, whereby sensations appear
as the interpretations of stimuli; the perceptions as interpretations
of sensations; perceptual judgments as the interpretation of percep-
tions; particular and general propositions as interpretations of
perceptual judgments; and scientific theories as interpretations of
series of propositions (see Bonfantini and Grazia 1976: 13).
In the light of the infinite segmentability of the continuum, both
perceptual schemata and propositions regarding the laws of nature
(what a rhinoceros is like, whether the dolphin is a fish, whether
it is possible to conceive of the cosmic ether) carve out objects or
98 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
relations that—albeit to different degrees—always remain hypo-
thetical or subject to the possibility of fallibilism.
Naturally at this point transcendentalism will also undergo its
Copernican revolution. The guarantee that our hypotheses are
"right" (or at least acceptable as such until proved otherwise) will
no longer be sought for in the a priori of the pure intellect (even
though the intellect's most abstract logical forms will be saved) but
in the historic, progressive, and temporal consensus of the Com-
munity.2 3
Faced with the risk of fallibilism, the transcendental is
also historicized; it becomes an accumulation of interpretations
that are accepted, and accepted after a process of discussion, selec-
tion, and repudiation.2 4
This foundation is unstable, based on the
pseudo-transcendental of the Community (an optative idea rather
than a sociological category); and yet it is the consensus of the Com-
munity that today makes us favor Kepler's abduction rather than
Tycho Brahe's. Naturally the Community has supplied what are
called proofs, but it is not the authoritativeness of the proof in itself
that convinces us or prevents us from falsifying it; it is, rather, the
difficulty of calling a proof into question without upsetting the en-
tire system, the paradigm that supports it.
This detranscendentalization of knowledge crops up again,
through an explicitly Peircean influence, in Dewey's notion of
"warranted assertion," or, as people now prefer to say, of warranted
assertibility, and it is still present in the various holistic concepts of
knowledge. But, even though in that sense an acceptable concept of
truth depends on the structural pressure of a body of interdepen-
dent knowledge, within this body facts nonetheless are always
emerging, which show themselves gradually and which seem "re-
calcitrant to experience." And so in this way within a unitary and
unanimous paradigm there reappears what in Peirce's view was al-
ways one of the fundamental problems (and tasks) of the Com-
munity: how to recognize—after having collectively and at length
run up against the nos, the opposition and refusals—the grain of
the continuum. But I'll be coming back to this in 2 . 9 .
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 99
2.8 PEIRCE REINTERPRETED
In 2.2, we said that Peirce, in feeling his way through Ground, per-
ceptual judgment, and Immediate Object, was trying to solve the
problem of schematism from the standpoint of an inferential view
of knowledge. I do not think that, on the various occasions in
which he again took up the theme that runs through all his work,
Peirce gives us one definitive answer. He attempted lots. He
needed a concept of schema, but he could not find one with its
modalities already founded and he could not deduce them. He had
to find them "in action," in the middle of an incessant activity of in-
terpretation. And so I don't think it is enough to trust in philology,
at least I have no intention of doing so here. What I shall do is try
to say how I think Peirce should be read (or reconstructed, if you
will); in other words, I shall try to make him say what I wish he
had said, because only in that case will I manage to understand
what he meant to say.
Fumagalli (1995: 3) points out that in 1885 there was a change in
Peirce's thinking. From that date the categories of the youthful
"New List" were no longer deduced from an analysis of the propo-
sition but concern three areas of experience. There is a sort of shift,
I would say, from logic to epistemology: the Ground, for example,
is no longer a predicate but a sensation. Likewise, the second mo-
ment (that of indexicality) becomes a type of experience that has
the form of a shock; it is an impact with an individual, with a haec-
ceitas that "strikes" the subject without being a representation yet.
Fumagalli observes that we have a Kantian return here to the im-
mediacy of intuition, prior to all inferential activity. Nevertheless,
since this intuition, as we shall see, remains the pure sentiment that
I am confronted with something, the intuition would still be de-
void of all intellectual content, and therefore (it seems to me) it
could withstand the young Peirce's anti-Cartesian polemic.
The Ground is a Firstness. As we have seen, the term can mean
background" (and this would be a misleading interpretation) or
basis" or "foundation." It is a "foundation" in the sense of the cog-
nitive process, which is nonmetaphysical, otherwise the Ground
IOO / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
would be the substance, something that obscurely proposes itself as
the subjection of predications. Instead, the Ground itself seems a
possible predicate, more like an "It is red" than a "This is red." We
are still before the encounter with something that resists us; we are
about to enter Secondness, but we are not there yet. At a certain
point Peirce tells us that it is "pure species," but I don't think one
can understand the term in its scholastic sense; it should be under-
stood in its current sense, as appearance, as semblance (Fabbrichesi
1981: 471). Why does Peirce call it icon, and likeness, and say that it
has the nature of an idea? I think this is because Peirce was
brought up in the Graeco-Occidental tradition, in which knowl-
edge is always transmitted by a vision. If Peirce had been brought
up in the Jewish tradition, perhaps he would have talked of a
sound, of a voice.
•
2.8.1 The Ground, qualia, and primary iconism
What is visual about the immediate sensation of heat, which is
every bit as much Firstness as a sensation of red? In both cases we
still have something elusive, so much so that Peirce uses an ex-
tremely delicate term to express the idea of Firstness, which is "so
tender that you cannot touch it without spoiling it" (CP 1.358).
But this is the way the Ground should be seen, from the stand-
point both of Peirce's realism and from that of his theory of the
icon. From the point of view of Peircean realism, Firstness is a
presence "such as it is," no more than a positive characteristic
(CP 5.44). It is a "quality of feeling," like a purple color noticed
without any sense of the beginning or the end of the experience,
without any awareness other than the feeling of color; it is not an
object, nor is it initially inherent to any recognizable object; it has
no generality (CP 7.530). It is, and it induces us to pass on to
Secondness, to take account of several qualities, which already re-
ciprocally oppose one another before opposing us (7.533), and also
because at that point we do have to say that something is there.
From that moment interpretation may begin, but forward, not
backward. However, by appearing, it is still "mere may-be"
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I I o I
(CP 1.304), potentiality without existence (CP 1.328), mere possibil-
ity (CP 8.329), and in any case a possibility of a perceptual process
that is "not rational, yet capable of rationalization" (CP 5.119). "It
cannot be articulately thought: assert it, and it has already lost its
characteristic innocence; for assertion always implies a denial of
something else...Only, remember that every description of it may
be false" (CP 1.357).2 5
Peirce is not a Kantian here: he is not at all concerned with dis-
covering a manifold in intuition. If primary intuition exists, it is ab-
solutely simple. I imagine that other attributes, after the first red,
the first heat, the first sense of hardness, may later be added, in the
inferential process that follows as a consequence; but the beginning
is an absolute point. I think that, when Peirce says the Ground is a
quality, he means to say what philosophy still defines today as the
phenomenon ofqualia (see Dennet 1991).
The Ground shows all the antinomies of the dramatic problem
posed by qualia: How can it be pure possibility, prior to any con-
ceptualization, and yet become a predicate, a general predicable of
many different objects; in other words, how can a sensation of
white be a pure album that precedes even the recognition of the ob-
ject to which it is inherent, and still be not only nameable but pred-
icable as albedo of different objects? And, a further problem for
Peirce, how is it possible that this pure quality and possibility (as
we mentioned in 2.2) can be neither criticized nor called into ques-
tion?
Let us start with the last problem. With regard to a quality
Peirce is still not talking about perceptual judgment; he is talking
about a mere "tone" of cognition, and it is this tone that he defines
as being resistant to all possible criticism. Peirce is telling us not
that the sensation of red is "infallible" but that, once it has been,
even if we then realize that we were wrong, it is still beyond doubt
that it has been (see Proni 1992, 3.16.1). In an example in CP 5.412,
there is mention of something that in the first instance strikes one
as perfectly white and then, after a series of successive comparisons,
strikes one as off-white. Peirce could have developed the example
to tell me of a housewife who in a first moment perceives of her
102 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
freshly washed sheet as extremely white but then, after comparing
it with another, admits that the second is whiter than the first.
There is nothing casual or roguish about this reference to the
canonical schema of detergent commercials: Peirce's intention was
to talk about exactly this problem.
Faced with the television commercial, Peirce would have told us
that the housewife initially perceived the whiteness of the first
sheet (pure "tone" of awareness); then, once she had moved on to
the recognition of the object (Secondness) and had begun a com-
parison full of inferences (Thirdness), discovering that whiteness is
manifested by degrees, she could state that the second sheet is
whiter than the first, but at the same time she could not cancel the
preceding impression, which as a pure quality has been; and there-
fore she says, "I thought (before) that my sheet was white, but now
that,I have seen yours, et cetera."
But—and now we come to the first problem—in the course of
this process, by comparing diverse gradations of the album that was
at first pure possibility of awareness, in other words by reacting to
the album of at least two different sheets, the housewife has moved
on to the predicate of the albedo, i.e., to a general, which can be
named and for which there is an Immediate Object. We might say
that it is one thing to perceive an object as red, without having be-
come aware as yet that we are dealing with something external to
our awareness, and it is another thing to perform the prescission
whereby one predicates of that object the quality of being red.
But having said this, we still have not answered a series of ques-
tions. We have made clear what Peirce wanted to talk about but not
how he might have explained the process he was talking about.
How is it that a pure quality (Firstness), which should be the im-
mediate and unrelated point of departure of all subsequent percep-
tions, can function as a predicate, and therefore already has been
named, if semiosis is established only in Thirdness? And how is it,
all knowledge being inference, that we have a point of departure
that cannot be inferential, since it manifests itself immediately
without even having been discussed or denied?
For example, the Ground should not even be an icon, if the icon
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 103
is likeness, because it cannot have a relation of likeness with any-
thing if not with itself. Here Peirce is swinging between two no-
tions: in one sense, as we have seen, the Ground is an idea, a
skeleton plan, but if it is such, it is already an Immediate Object, a
full realization of Thirdness; in another sense it is a Likeness that
does not resemble anything. All it says to me is that the sensation I
feel is in some way emanated by the Dynamical Object.
In this case we must liberate (even if this means going against
Peirce, who, by changing the term every time, confuses our ideas)
the concept of likeness from the concept of comparison. Compari-
son occurs in relations of similitude, when on the basis of a given
proportion we say—of a graph, for example—that it expresses cer-
tain relations that we must suppose in the object. Similitude (al-
ready riddled with laws) explains the workings of hypoicons, such
as diagrams, drawings, pictures, musical scores, and algebraic for-
mulae. But the icon is not explained by saying that it is a similitude,
nor even by saying that it is a likeness. The icon is a phenomenon
that founds all possible judgments of likeness, but it cannot be
founded on likeness itself.
Therefore it would be misleading to think of the icon as a men-
tal "image" that reproduces the qualities of the object, because in
that case it would be easy to abstract a general image from many
particular images, just as one abstracts (however this happens) a
general idea of bird or tree from many birds or many trees. I do not
wish to say that mental images must not be admitted or that in cer-
tain moments Peirce did not think of the icon in terms of a mental
image. I am saying that in order to conceive the concept of primary
iconism, the one that establishes itself in the moment of the
Ground, we have to abandon even the notion of mental image.2 6
Let us try to eliminate the mental facts and make a mental ex-
periment instead. I have just got up and, still half asleep, I put the
coffee percolator on the gas. Probably I have put the gas on too
high, or I haven't put the percolator in the right place, but the fact
remains that the handle has got too hot, and when I pick up the
percolator to pour the coffee, I burn myself. Standard expletives
emitted (and deleted), I protect my fingers and pour the coffee.
104 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
End of story. But the next morning, I make the same mistake. If I
were to verbalize the second experience, I would say that I put the
same percolator on the gas and that I had the same painful sensa-
tion. But the two types of recognition are different. Establishing
that the percolator is the same is the effect of a complex system of
inferences (full Thirdness): I could have (as I do have) two percola-
tors of the same type, one older and one newer, and establishing
which of the two I picked up implies a series of recognitions and
conjectures regarding some morphological characteristics of the
object, and even the memory of where I put it the day before.
But "feeling" that what I feel today is the same (with some negli-
gible variations in thermic intensity) as what I felt yesterday is
quite another kettle of fish. I am pretty sure I have the same im-
pression of burning, or, rather, I feel a painful thermic sensation
that in some way I recognize as similar to that of the previous day.
I don't think many inferences are required to activate this recog-
nition. The handiest solution would be that the previous experi-
ence has left a "trace" in my neural circuits. But there is the risk of
already considering this trace as a schema, a prototype of the feel-
ing, a rule for recognizing similar feelings. Let us accept, if we
wish, an idea current in neoconnectionist circles, whereby it is not
necessary for the neural network to construct a prototype of the
category, and there is no distinction between rule and data (i.e., the
memory of the stimulus and the memory of the rule would have
the same configuration, the same neural pattern). Even more mod-
estly, we can assume that, the moment I feel the sensation of pain, a
point in my nervous apparatus is activated that is the same one ac-
tivated the day before and that this point, in activating itself, in
some way makes me feel, along with the sensation of heat, a feeling
of "again." I am not even sure if one must presuppose a memory, if
not in the sense that if on one occasion we have suffered an injury
in one part of the body, the body has retained a "memory" of the
injury and, when a new injury occurs, it reacts in a different way
than if it were hurt in a part still undamaged. It is as if the first time
I noticed a sensation of "heat!" and the second time a sensation of
"heat,."
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 105
Gibson (1966: 278), while maintaining that the idea that feelings
leave a trace is fairly reasonable and, all things considered, handy,
and that the input present must in some way reactivate the trace
left by the previous experience, nevertheless observes that an alter-
native explanation would be that the judgment of likeness between
stimuli reflects a concordance between the perceptual system and
the invariants of the informative stimulus. No trace, no prelimi-
nary "schema," simply something that we cannot but call confor-
mity.
It is not that we have plunged back into a theory of knowledge
(or at least of its sensory anteroom) as adaequatio. We are dealing
with a matter of simple correspondence between stimulus and re-
sponse. Therefore, we do not have to tackle all the paradoxes in a
theory of correspondence at higher cognitive levels: if, on perceiv-
ing a dog, we find it corresponds to our schema of dog, we must
ask ourselves on what basis the judgment of correspondence is
founded, and in seeking the model of correspondence, we enter the
spiral of the Third Man. On the contrary, identity, the statistical
correspondence between stimulus and response, tells us that the re-
sponse is exactly that caused by the stimulus.
What does correspondence mean in this case? Let us suppose
that somebody managed to record the process that comes about in
our nervous system every time we receive the same stimulus, and
that the record always has the configuration x. We should say
therefore that x corresponds adequately to the stimulus and is the
icon of it. Let us say, then, that the icon evinces a likeness with the
stimulus.
This correspondence we have decided to call likeness has noth-
ing to do (yet) with an "image" that corresponds point by point
with the characteristics of the object or the field of stimulus. As
Maturana (1970: 10) reminds us, two states of activity in a given
nerve cell can be considered the same (i.e., as equivalents) if "they
belong to the same class" and are defined by the same pattern of
activity, without their having to possess the nature of a map with
one-to-one correspondences. For example, let us accept as good
Fechner's Law, whereby the intensity of a sensation is proportional
I o 6 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
to the logarithm of the excitatory influence. If this were the case,
and if the proportion were constant, the intensity of excitation
would be the icon of the excitatory influence (in the formula
S = K log R, the equals sign would express the relation of iconic
similarity).
I think that for Peirce primary iconism lies in the correspon-
dence whereby the stimulus is adequately "represented" by that sen-
sation and not by another. This correspondence is not to be
explained but only recognized. That is why it is the icon that be-
comes a parameter of similarity and not vice versa. If from that
moment we mean to talk of other and more complex relations of
similarity, or of calculated relations of similitude, it is on the basis
of the model of that primary likeness, the icon, that we establish
what it means, evidently in a sense that is less immediate, rapid,
beyond dispute, to be similar to?1
In 6.11 we shall see that a relation of this kind, nonmediated, be-
yond dispute (provided there is no interference from elements ca-
pable of "fooling" the senses), occurs in mirror images. But here I
prefer to avoid recourse to an image of any nature, precisely to free
the notion of iconism of its historic ties with visual images.
2.8.2 The lower threshold of primary iconism
If it is possible to define primary iconism in nonmental terms, it is
because within Peirce's thinking there is an encounter between two
different but mutually dependent perspectives: the metaphysical-
cosmological standpoint and the cognitive standpoint. Unless they
are read from a semiotical point of view, Peirce's metaphysics and
cosmology are certainly incomprehensible; but the same thing
ought to be said of his semiotics with regard to his cosmology. Cat-
egories such as Firstness, Secondness, and Thirdness, and the con-
cept of interpretation itself, not only define modi significandi—that
is, the ways in which the world can be known—they are also modi
essendi, ways in which the world behaves, the procedures through
which the world, in the course of evolution, interprets itself.2 8
From the cognitive standpoint the icon, seen in its nature as pure
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 107
quality, state of awareness, absolutely unrelated, is a Likeness, be-
cause it corresponds to what called it into being (the icon is thus,
even though it has not yet been compared to its own model, even
though it is not yet seen in connection with any object external to
the senses). From the cosmological standpoint the icon is the nat-
ural willingness of something to correspond to something else. If
Peirce had come to know about the theory of the genetic code, he
would certainly have said that the relation that permits chains of
nitrogenous bases to produce successions of amino acids, or permits
triplets of DNA to be replaced by triplets of RNA, was an iconic
one.
I am referring to what in A Theory of Semiotics (0.7) I had de-
fined as "the lower threshold of semiotics," excluding it from a dis-
cussion in which an attempt was made to work out a semiotics of
cultural relations, the only one that made any sense if the Dynami-
cal Object was considered a terminus ad quern of the processes of
signification and reference. But we are now considering the Dy-
namical Object as a terminus a quo, and therefore this natural semi-
osis (a parte objecti) must be taken into consideration.
With all due caution: in no way am I repudiating the distinction
(which remains fundamental) between signal and sign, between
dyadic processes of stimulus-response and triadic processes of in-
terpretation, so that only in the full expansion of this last do
phenomena such as signification, intentionality, and interpretation
(however you wish to consider them) emerge. I am admitting with
Prodi (1977) that to understand the higher cultural phenomena,
which clearly do not spring from nothing, it is necessary to assume
that certain "material bases of signification" exist, and that these
bases lie precisely in this disposition to meet and interact that we
can see as the first manifestation (not yet cognitive and certainly not
mental) of primary iconism.
In this sense the elementary condition of semiosis would be a
physical state whereby one structure is willing to interact with an-
other (Prodi would have said: "Is willing to be read by"). In a de-
bate between immunologists and semioticians in which the
lmmunologists maintained that phenomena of "communication"
Io8 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
occurred on a cellular level (Sercarz et al. 1988), what was at stake
was to decide if some phenomena of "recognition" on the part of
lymphocytes in the immune system could be dealt with in terms of
"sign," "meaning," and "interpretation" (see the same problem in
Edelman 1992, III, 8). I am still wary of extending beyond the
lower threshold of semiosis terms that indicate higher cognitive
phenomena; but it is certain that we need to postulate what I am
presently calling primary iconism to explain why and how "T lym-
phocytes have the capacity to distinguish infected from normal
macrophages because they recognize as signs of abnormality small
bacterial fragments on the macrophage surface" (Eichmann 1988:
163). Let us eliminate from this context the word "signs" and allow
terms such as "to recognize" a metaphorical value (by rejecting the
notion that a lymphocyte recognizes something in the same way
that we recognize the faces of our parents); let us also refrain from
commenting upon the fact that many immunologists think that the
lymphocyte also makes some "choices" with regard to alternative
situations. The fact remains that, in the situation cited, two some-
things meet because they correspond to each other, as a screw corre-
sponds to the female thread.
In the course of the same debate, Prodi (1988: 55) commented:
An enzyme...selects its substrate from among a number of mean-
ingless molecules with which it can collide: it reacts and forms a
complex only with its partner molecule. This substrate is a sign for
the enzyme (for its enzyme). The enzyme explores reality and finds
what corresponds to its own shape: it is a lock that seeks and finds
its own key. In philosophical terms, an enzyme is a reader that "cat-
egorizes" reality by determining the set of all the molecules that can
react with it factually...This semiotics (or proto-semiotics) is the
basic feature of the entire biological organization (protein synthesis,
metabolism, hormonal activity, the transmission of nervous im-
pulses, and so on).
Yet again I would refrain from using terms such as "sign," but it is
beyond doubt that when we come up against this lock that seeks its
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 109
own key, we come up against a protosemiotics, and it is to this pro-
tosemiotic disposition that I would tend to give the name of natural
primary iconism.
Every time I wondered how I would have reorganized A Theory
of Semiotics if I had to write it again now, I would say to myself that
I would have begun at the end, i.e., by putting the part on modes of
sign production at the beginning. It would have been interesting to
begin instead by starting with what happens when, subjected to the
pressure of the Dynamical Object, one decides to consider it a ter-
minus a quo. Had I begun from the end, I would have to return to
the pages of the book where (taking my cue from Volli 1972) I
identified congruencies (i.e., casts) as being among the first modali-
ties of the production (and recognition) of signs (Eco 1976, 3.6.9).
On that occasion I was interested in how, starting from a cast,
where at each point in the physical space of the expression there is a
corresponding point in the physical space of an impresser, "by re-
verse transformation" one could infer the nature of the impresser. I
started from the example of a death mask, because I was interested
in the object as a terminus ad quern of an already conscious process
of the interpretation and recognition of a sign. I was so interested
in the relation of construction of a possible content of the sign that I
was prepared to consider also cases of interpretation of a death
mask that was not such but, rather, the simulation of a nonexistent
impresser. Now all we have to do is take up the example again and
focus the attention not on the moment in which the cast is "read"
but on the moment in which it produces itself (and it produces it-
self by itself, without the action of a conscious being who intends to
produce a sign destined for interpretation, an expression that must
then be correlated with a content).
We would then be at a beginning, still presemiotic, where some-
thing is pressed onto something else. Only afterward could anyone,
finding the concavity that something convex had produced, begin to
project backward, in an attempt to infer what could have been
there before from what is there now, with regard to which what is
there now can be assumed as an impression, and therefore an icon.
I I O / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
But at this point an objection would arise.
If primary iconism is to be considered this way, how can we de-
fine the moment of Firstness using the metaphor of the cast or the
impression, which calls for an impressing agent, and therefore an
original contact, a comparison, a de facto correspondence between
two elements? By virtue of that very fact we would already be in
Secondness. Let us think of the process of the transmission of ge-
netic inheritance, which we were talking about earlier: therein we
have an occurrence of steric phenomena, a series of correspon-
dences, and therefore we would have a stimulus-response process
that already has to do, from a Peircean standpoint, with Second-
ness. Peirce would probably have been the first to agree: he said on
many occasions that Firstness can be prescinded (logically) from
Secondness but cannot occur in its absence (see Ransdell 1979: 59).
Therefore, in talking of primary iconism as a cast, we are talking
not of actuated correspondence but of a predisposition to correspond,
of "likeness" through the complementary nature of one element
with respect to another to come. Natural primary iconism would be
the quality proper to impressions that still have not found (neces-
sarily) their impresser but that are ready to "recognize it." But if we
know that that impression is ready to receive its own impresser,
and if we know the ways of the impression to come (the natural
law whereby only this screw can be screwed into this screw thread),
then we can infer (if the impression is theoretically seen as a sign)
the form of the impresser from the impression. Exactly the same
way in which (as we shall be saying later) in the course of the per-
ceptual process we can—from that unrelated sensation elsewhere
called the Ground—construct the Immediate Object of something
that should possess, among other qualities, that quality as well.
It may seem paradoxical to talk of the icon, which Peirce held
was the first moment of an absolute evidence, as pure disposition-
to, of pure absence in some way, an image of a thing that is not
there yet. It would seem that this primary icon is like a hole, given
that we have everyday experience of it but nonetheless have diffi-
culty defining it, and given that 152 can be recognized only as an
absence within something that is present (see Casati and Varzi
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 1 1 1
1994). And yet it is precisely from that nonbeing that one can infer
the shape of the "plug" that could stop it up. But since by talking of
holes we already enter the realm of metaphysics (and we have said
that primary iconism cannot be understood if not in initially meta-
physical terms), I should like to mention another page of meta-
physics, the text in which Leibniz talks of one and zero (De organo
sive arte magna cogitandi) and identifies two fundamental concepts:
"God himself, and also nothingness, that is to say privation: which
is demonstrated by an admirable similitude." The similitude was
the binary calculus where "with admirable method all the numbers
between Unity and Nothingness are expressed in this way."
It is singular that, in discussing the nature of the icon (which has
always been enlisted in the army of the analogical), one must have
recourse to the text that laid the foundations of the future digital
calculus, and find oneself translating the concept of the icon in
Boolean terms. But in terms of the dialectic between presence and
absence the possibility of all steric phenomena can be defined, in-
cluding the admirable correspondence between a hole and its plug.
In defining the least "structured" of experiences, iconic Firstness,
we find the structural principle whereby an element can be identi-
fied insofar as it is not the other, which, by evoking it, it excludes
(see Eco 1968, 2nd ed.: xii).
Naturally, once this presupposition is accepted, we can tackle
those situations halfway between natural primary iconism and
nonhuman cognitive systems, such as cases of recognition and cam-
ouflage among animals, a regular bee in the bonnet—if I may put it
that way—for many zoosemioticians.2 9
All these phenomena,
which I was personally reluctant to consider semiosic because they
seem to me to belong more to the dyadic reaction (stimulus and re-
sponse) than to the triadic one (stimulus, series of interpretations,
and possible final logic interpretant), now acquire all their impor-
tance the moment we need (on seeing the Dynamical Object as a
terminus a quo) to find a basis (and a prehistory) for that initial
iconic moment of the cognitive process that Peirce is telling us
about.
Otherwise we could not even explain in what sense this primary
1 1 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
iconism, in Peirce's view, is connected with the "giveness" of the
manifold of the Kantian intuition, which constitutes the "hard
core" of the cognitive process; nor could we explain the unswerving
confidence that prompted Kant to confirm his "confutation of ide-
alism."
2.8.3 Perceptual judgment
Once primary iconism has been recognized, we must ask ourselves
how, in Peirce's view, in the shift from Ground to Immediate Ob-
ject it is reelaborated and transformed at higher cognitive levels.
Having entered the symbolic universe, Peirce's incontrovertible
basic "realism" is called into question, i.e., it is subjected to the
activity of interpretation.
The iconic moment establishes that everything starts from an ev-
idence, albeit imprecise, which we have to take account of; and this
evidence is the pure Quality that in some way emanates from the
object. But the fact that the Quality emanates from the object does
not provide any guarantee of its "truth." Insofar as it is an icon, it is
neither true nor false: the "torch of truth" must still pass through
many hands. It is the condition whereby we set off on our way to
saying something.
On the way, and right from its first instants, even that primary
iconism can be subjected to scrutiny, because I could have received
the stimulus under conditions (external or internal) capable of
"fooling" my nerve ends. But we are already in an advanced phase
of elaboration; we no longer have only one Ground to answer to,
we have many of them to keep together, and therefore to interpret,
one in the light of the other.
In Peirce's thinking, this primary iconism is still a postulate of
his fundamental realism rather than a realistic proof of the exis-
tence of the object. Since he denies that intuition possesses any
power and asserts that all cognition springs from previous cogni-
tions, not even an unrelated sensation, be it thermic, tactile, or vi-
sual, can be recognized without bringing into play an inferential
process that, no matter how instantaneous and unconscious, verifies
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 1 1 3
the sensation's reliability. This is why such a point of departure,
which precedes even what Kant would have said was the intuition
of the manifold, can be defined in logical terms but not clearly
identified in epistemological terms.
The certainty supplied by the Ground is not even proof that we
are faced with something real (because it is still pure may-be), but it
tells us under what conditions we could accept the assumption that
we are faced with something real, and that this something is this
and that (see Oehler 1979: 69). In fact, in the New List Peirce had
already said that "the Ground is the self abstracted from the con-
creteness which implies the possibility of an other" (WR 2: 55), and
while everybody is free to interpret Peirce's dreadful English as he
sees fit, we should reflect on this point. Firstness lets us know that it
is possible that something is there. In order to say that it is, to say
that something is resisting me, we must already have entered Sec-
ondness. It is in Secondness that we really run into something. Fi-
nally, in moving on to Thirdness, which implies generalization,
one arrives at the Immediate Object. But since it has opened the
gateway to the universal for me, it no longer offers me any guaran-
tee that the something is there, or that it is not a construction of
mine.3 0
And yet the Ground will remain in the Immediate Object
(whose iconic aspect is emphasized by Peirce on several occasions)
as a "memory" of that warrant supplied by primary iconism—
which is moreover still a Kantian concept, except that in Peirce's
case the guarantee, granted by something that precedes the intu-
ition of the manifold, is nonetheless warranted only by perceptual
inference.
And so, in a vague and swampy region between Firstness, Sec-
ondness, and Thirdness, the perceptual process begins. I say process
(something in movement), not judgment, which suggests conclu-
sion and rest. Insofar as it is a process, if we are to account for it, we
can no longer content ourselves with a stimulus-response schema.
It will be necessary to bring into play those mental facts that I had
excluded from the attempt to define primary iconism in some way.
The fact that for Peirce these can be "quasi mental" facts—in the
sense that a theory of interpretation can be established in a formal
I 14 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
fashion, without taking account of a mind in which this happens—
is another argument. At this point the "contrivance" of something
that functions as a mind emerges as indispensable. What explains
the perceptual process to us is that by the time I arrive to calm the
process, to stop it for a moment, having ascertained that the some-
thing I am faced with is a hot (or white, or circular) plate, I shall al-
ready have delivered a perceptual judgment.
There is a series of texts from the early twentieth century, in
which Peirce reaffirms what he meant by perceptual judgment
(CP 7: 615-88). Feeling, pure Firstness, is the awareness of a mo-
ment of absolute and atemporal singularity; but from this first mo-
ment we already enter Secondness, we attribute the first icon to an
object (or at least to something we are faced with), and we have the
sensation, an intermediate moment between Firstness and Second-
ness, ,between icon and index. The first stimulus, which I am
"working" to integrate into a perceptual judgment, is an index of
the fact that there is something to perceive. Perhaps something
catches my eye, without my being moved by any intention, and
something impinges upon my perception. I see a yellow chair with
a green cushion: but mark this, I am already beyond Firstness, I am
opposing two qualities, I am moving on to a moment of greater
concreteness. What is taking shape before me is what Peirce calls a
percept, which is not yet a full perception. Peirce notes that one
might call what I see an "image," but this would be a misnomer,
because the word would make me think of a sign that stands for
something else, while the percept stands for itself, it simply
"knocks at the portal of my soul and stands there in the doorway"
(CP 7.619).
I am forced to admit that something appears, but this something
is still, precisely, obtuse appearance, it does not make any appeal to
reason. It is pure individuality, in itself "dumb."
Only at this point does perceptual judgment come on the scene,
and we are in Thirdness.3 1
When I say That is a yellow chair, I have
already used a hypothesis to construct a judgment of the percept
present. This judgment does not "represent" the percept, just as the
percept was not even its premise, because the percept was not even
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 1 1 5
a proposition. Any statement regarding the character of the percept
is already the responsibility of the perceptual judgment; it is the
judgment that warrants the percept, not vice versa. Perceptual
judgment is not a copy of the percept (at most, according to Peirce,
it is a symptom of it, an index). Perceptual judgment no longer
moves on that threshold where the line between Firstness and Sec-
">ndness is blurred; it is already asserting that what I see is true.
Perceptual judgment has an inferential freedom that the percept,
stupid and inane, has not.
But that's not all. It is clear that for Peirce, when I state that the
chair is yellow, my perceptual judgment retains a trace of primary
iconicity. And yet it desingularizes it:
The perceptual judgment pronounces quite carelessly the chair yel-
low. What the particular shade, hue, and purity of the yellow may
be it does not consider. The percept, on the other hand, is so
scrupulously specific that it makes this chair different from any
other in the world; or rather, it would do so, if it indulged in any
comparisons. (CP 7.633)
It is dramatic to see how already in the perceptual judgment (for
which yellow was that yellow) primary iconism shades off into a
generic equality (that yellow is like all the other yellows I have
seen). The individual sensation has already transformed itself into
a class of "similar" sensations (but the similarity of these sensations
is no longer the same quality of similarity between stimulus and
Ground). By this point, if we can say that the predicate "yellow" re-
sembles the sensation, it is only because a new judgment would
predicate the same predicate of the same percept. And here Peirce
does not seem particularly interested in saying how and why
this happens: he seems to endorse the interpretation I gave to the
Ground in 2.8.2: two stimuli are respectively the icon (the Like-
ness) of each other, because they are both the icon of my response
pattern.
And in fact Peirce says that the same percept arouses in the
mind an "imagination" that involves "elements of the senses."
Therefore "it is clear that the perceptual judgment is not a copy,
I l 6 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
icon, or diagram of the percept, no matter how crude" (CP 7. 637).
This is puzzling. Because we might be tempted to say that this
perceptual judgment so permeated by Thirdness is identified with
the Immediate Object. And yet Peirce has repeatedly empha-
sized the iconic character of the Immediate Object. But the iconism
of the Immediate Object certainly cannot be the primary iconism of
Feeling; it is already dominated by calculations of similarity, by
ratios of proportion, it is already diagrammatic or hypoiconic.
Therefore must we suppose that when Peirce talks of the Imme-
diate Object, he is not talking about perceptual judgment, and
when he is talking about perceptual judgment, he is not talking
about the Immediate Object? But it is equally clear that the second
should be none other than the completed fulfillment of the first.
I think we have to distinguish the function of the Immediate
Object, and its relation with perceptual judgment, according to
whether it is constructed, so to speak, ex novo (but not in the ab-
sence of previous cognitions) when faced with a new experience
(e.g., the platypus) or in the process of recognizing something al-
ready known (e.g., the plate). In the first case, the Immediate Ob-
ject will still be imperfect, tentative, in fieri; it will come to coincide
with the first hypothetical perceptual judgment (perhaps this thing
is like this or like that). In the second case, I have recourse to an
Immediate Object, which has already deposited itself in my mem-
ory, as if to a preformed schema that orients the formation of the
perceptual judgment, and is a parameter of it at the same time.
Having perceived the plate therefore means having recognized it as
a token of an already known type, and at that point the Immediate
Object would perform the same function that—in the cognitive
process—is performed by the Kantian schema. The upshot is that
in that phase I shall not only know that what I have perceived is a
white plate but also know (before having touched it) that it should
have a certain weight, because the schema already formed also con-
tained that information.
The perceptual process was tentative, still private, while the Im-
mediate Object, insofar as it is interpretable (and therefore trans-
missible), is on its way to becoming public. It can even, as a
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 1 1 7
cognitive schema already consigned to me by the community, act
not to encourage but to block the process of perceiving something
new (as was the case with Marco Polo and the rhinoceros). Indeed
it too must be subjected to continuous scrutiny, revision, and recon-
struction.3 2
This is why it has been possible to maintain (see, e.g., Eco 1979:
2.3) that, from a certain point of view, Ground, Immediate Object,
and Meaning are the same thing. From the point of view of the
knowledge that has provisionally subsided into a first outline, the
original iconic elements, the information I already possessed, and
the first attempts at inference have composed themselves into a
single schema. On the other hand, it is certain that if we consider
the temporal scansion of the perceptual process (even though the
process is sometimes almost instantaneous—but for Kant, too, tem-
porality was a constituent of the schema), the Ground and the Im-
mediate Object are respectively the point of departure and the first
stop on a journey that could continue for a long time as it runs
along the tracks of potentially infinite interpretation.
Only in this sense can the Ground, the moment it is consciously
inserted into the process of interpretation, be considered as a "fil-
ter," a selector, on the part of the perceptual signal, of those proper-
ties of the Dynamical Object destined to be made pertinent by the
Immediate Object. And the hitherto uninterpreted Ground repre-
sents the presemiosic moment, pure possibility of segmentation
traced out in the hitherto unsegmented continuum?1
In this phase one could also reintroduce icons to the Immediate
Object, as a phenomenon of visual correspondence. After all, Kant
too used to say that in order to perceive the plate, I have to bring
the concept of the circle into play. But I should like to keep this
Peircean reading out of the extremely lively debate, within modern
cognitive sciences, between iconophiles and iconophobes (Dennett
1978: 10). It could always be said that the schema that is the Imme-
diate Object does not necessarily have to be a "photo in your head,"
it might be more like the description of a scene than its "portrayal"
(see, e.g., Pylyshin 1973). Without involving Peirce in the debate re-
garding a "computational" theory of knowledge, we could always
I 18 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Figure 2.3
say that the circle by which a plate is perceived is not a visible
geometrical form but the precept, the rule for drawing the circle.
As far as the dog is concerned, seeing that in order to identify its
morphological characteristics (coat, four legs, the shape of the nose)
I have not so much pure geometrical concepts at my disposal but
(as we have said) a 3-D model, it is hard to think of the dog's
Immediate Object without having to presume mental images. I
am not sure how Peirce would have taken part in current debates
within the cognitive sciences.
Also because there can be an Immediate Object that corresponds
to a term that is not intended to take account of a perceivable ob-
ject, such as cousin or square root.
When Peirce conceives a diagram (which he says is a "pure
icon") not for objects but for propositions—since like Kant he is
thinking of a schema that also mediates between categories and
sense data through experientially based judgments that assume
proportional form, and also through propositions that assert some-
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 119
thing about objects not known through perceptions—the diagram
assumes the aspect of a "program" that is only occasionally repre-
sented visually. I am thinking in general of the theory of graphs,
and in particular of a diagram that appears in the Grand Logic,
where Peirce wonders how to "put into shape" the proposition that
"every mother loves some child of hers."3 4
I am surprised by the
analogies between this "program" and some present-day represen-
tations of cognitive processes, and, even without following the long
and detailed reading that Peirce gives of it, I feel it is enough to re-
produce it (see fig. 2.3).
Peirce makes it clear that the diagram, precisely because it is a
pure icon, shows a state of things and nothing else: it does not assert
in a distinct fashion that which is understood by the proposition,
but limits itself to showing some relations of inherence. It is in fact
a schema and a prelude to subsequent interpretations. But it is clear
that this schema could today be supplied to a machine as an in-
struction expressed in nonvisual language, and the relations it
expresses would be retained. Independently of whether one pre-
sumes, as its container or active producer, a mind.
This schema, abundantly imbued with symbolic (and therefore
conceptual) elements—which does not tend to account for any per-
ceptual experience—is the Immediate Object that regulates the un-
derstanding of the situation in question. It is also a schema of its
meaning.
Therefore, from a primary iconism and through a perceptual
process already imbued with inferences, we come to an identity (if
not final, at least temporarily established) between perceptual judg-
ment and Immediate Object, and between Immediate Object and
the first nucleus of meaning associated with a representamen. And
the complete meaning as an all-inclusive set of markers, defini-
tions, and interpretants? It vanishes, in a certain sense, and one can
agree with Nesher (1984), that it cannot be collocated in any of the
phases of the cognitive process but that it distributes itself through
every phase (including the most advanced ones, but certainly start-
ing from the most elementary ones) of the process.
In this case the Immediate Object is something more than the
120 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Kantian schema: it is less "empty"; it does not mediate between
concept and intuition but is in itself the first conceptual nucleus and
at the same time (insofar as its iconic nature is always reiterated)
does not only put into shape, does not translate, but reelaborates by
conserving, and in a certain sense it "captures" and "memorizes"
something of the sensations from which it started. Or, at least,
when it is the Immediate Object that realizes perceptual situations
and not abstract terms. Unlike the schema—or at least the version
of it given in the first Critique—it is tentative, revisable, ready to
grow by virtue of interpretation. And yet it certainly represents the
way in which Peirce settles the inheritance of schematism in a non-
transcendental vein.
But Peirce had already said as much: if Kant had had to deduce
all the consequences of the advent of the schemata, his system
would have been thrown into confusion.
2.9 T H E GRAIN
The time has come, in bringing this double rereading of Kant and
Peirce to a conclusion, to say why and in what way it is connected
to the reflections I made in 1.10. And I shall do this by continuing
for the time being to use the concept of schema, which even at the
end of this rereading still emerges as being rather vague. But it is
handy to let it fluctuate like this, between the Immediate Object
and a "cognitive model" whose physiognomy I shall try to fix better
in 3.3.
Even though cognitive schemata are constructs, imbued with "as
if," that in Kant's view start from a still blind material of the intu-
ition, and in Peirce's view start from a primary icon that does
not yet provide us with any guarantee of "objectivity," there
must have been something in the platypus that prevented the ex-
plorer from defining it as a quail or a beaver. This does not guaran-
tee us that it was right to classify it among the monotremes.
Tomorrow a new taxonomy could radically change the rules.
And nonetheless right from the start, in order to construct a
schema of the platypus, attempts were made to respect the grain
Kant, Peirce, and the Platypus I 1 2 1
possessed by that manifestation of the still unsegmented continuum.
Even granting that the schema is a construct, we can never as-
sume that the segmentation of which it is the effect is completely
arbitrary, because (in Kant as in Peirce) it tries to make sense of
something that is there, of forces that act externally on our sensory
apparatus by exhibiting, at the least, some resistances.
Therefore there is probably a "truth" of the schema, a point of
view, a profile, an Abschattung that always shows us something
from a certain perspective. The 3-D model of a human being still
depends on the fact that man cannot be interpreted as a quadruped,
and no matter how many joints he has in his body, the ones that ar-
ticulate the arm at the elbow and the leg at the knee will always ex-
hibit a pertinence that would be hard to revoke (it can be abstracted
but not denied).
There was also a truth in the schema that depicted the whale as
a fish (i.e., with the schematic traits proper to fish). It was wrong (as
we now say) from the taxonomic standpoint, but it was not (and
still is not, even for us) from the standpoint of the construction of a
stereotype. But in any case it would never have been possible to
schematize the whale as a bird.
Even if the schema were a construct in a state of perpetual infer-
ential becoming, it would still have to take account of experience
and allow us a return to it by acting according to habits. This does
not exempt us from supposing that perhaps there might be better
ways of organizing experience (otherwise the principle of fallibil-
ism would make no sense), but at the same time it must guarantee
us that, according to the schema, experience can be reckoned with
in some way. The schema of something cannot be constructed arbi-
trarily, even though it is possible to have different schematic repre-
sentations of one and the same thing. In Kant's view, that the sun
rises, that it illuminates the stone, and that the stone is gradually
heated come from the perceptual judgment; that between the ris-
ing of the sun and the heating of the stone there is a lapse of time
comes from pure intuition; that the sun is the cause of the heat of
the stone comes from the marshaling of the entire categorial appa-
ratus. Everything depends on the legislative activity of the intellect.
1 2 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
But that it does not happen that the heat of the stone comes before
and the sunrise after depends on the very stuff of the sensible intu-
ition. I cannot think of the causal nexus that runs from the sun to
the heated stone without the forms of the intellect, but no form of
the intellect can ever allow me to establish that it is the heating up
of the stone that causes the sun to rise.
The schemata can also be considered unnatural, in the sense that
they do not preexist in nature, but this does not change the fact that
they are motivated}5
It is in this hint of motivation that the grain of
the continuum is revealed.
Chapter Three
COGNITIVE TYPES AND
NUCLEAR CONTENT
3.1 FROM K A N T TO COGNITIVISM
If Kant had considered schemata early enough, Peirce said, they
would have overgrown his whole work (WR 5: 258-59). In the
previous chapter, I suggested that it was precisely the problem of
schematism that obliged Kant to undertake a change of direction
in the third Critique. But we might say something more: if we were
to reconsider the problem of Kantian schematism, much of the se-
mantics of this century, from the truth-functional to the structural
variety, would find itself in difficulty. And this is what has hap-
pened in the area usually referred to as "cognitive studies."
In point of fact, a hint of various forms of Kantian schematism
(connected to a constructivist idea of knowledge) is present in the
contemporary cognitive sciences, even though their practitioners
are sometimes unaware of this connection.1
Nevertheless today,
when we come across notions such as schema, prototype, model,
and stereotype, they are certainly not comparable to the Kantian
notion (they do not imply transcendentalism, for example), nor can
these terms be understood as synonyms.
Moreover these cognitive "schemata" are usually intended to ac-
count for phenomena such as perception and the recognition of
123
124 I K A N T A N D T H E
P L A T Y P U S
objects or situations, while we have seen that Kantian schematism,
created to explain how judgments such as All bodies have weight are
possible, fell short of the mark precisely when it had to explain how
we manage to have empirical concepts. Cognitivism drew attention
back to empirical concepts and recommenced wondering about
the same things Locke (and Husserl too, basically) had wondered
about: What happens when we talk about dogs, cats, apples, and
chairs?2
But to say that cognitivism asks questions about cats and chairs
does not mean to say that the conclusions it comes to (which are
many and discordant) are satisfactory. The ghost of schematism
haunts much contemporary research, but the mystery of this secret
art has not yet been revealed.
Nor have I any pretensions to revealing it in these pages, also be-
cause, as we shall see, I would rather not poke my nose into the
black box of our mind or brain processes. I shall ask myself only
a few questions regarding the relations between a possible neo-
schematism and semiotic notions of meaning, dictionary and ency-
clopedia, and interpretation.3
Given the erratic character I should like these reflections to have,
I shall not always try to identify positions, theories, research, or the
schools of thought within contemporary cognitivism. Instead I
shall recount, as will be seen, lots of "stories" (mental experiments
in narrative form) that exemplify some of the problems.
Most of my stories are about something fairly similar to what
Kant held to be empirical concepts: I mean to say that I intend to
deal with the way in which we speak (i) of objects or situations of
which we have or might have direct experience (such as dog, chair,
walking, eating out, climbing a mountain); (ii) of objects and situa-
tions of which we have no experience but could have (such as ar-
madillo, or performing an appendectomy); (iii) of objects and
situations of which someone has certainly had experience but we
can no longer have, and regarding which the Community never-
theless transmits us sufficient instructions to speak of as if we had
had experience of them (such as dinosaur and Australopithecine).
Dealing with such elementary phenomena from a semi-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 125
otic standpoint poses first and foremost a preliminary question:
whether there is any sense in talking of perceptual semiosis, that is,
of a semiotic aspect of perception.
3.2 PERCEPTION AND SEMIOSIS
The problem of perception as a semiosic process has already made
its appearance in 2. Of course, those unfamiliar with the Peircean
standpoint will find this concept difficult (or quasi "imperialist"),
because if we accept that even perception is a semiosic phenome-
non, discriminating between perception and signification gets a lit-
tle tricky.4
We have seen that Husserl also thought that perceiving
something as red and naming something as red ought to be the
same process, but this process might have 'diverse phases. Between
perceiving a cat as a cat and naming it cat, or indicating it as an os-
tensive sign for all cats, is there not a jump, a gap (at least that shift
from terminus a quo to terminus ad quern)}
Can we detach the phenomenon of semiosis from the idea of
sign? There is no doubt that when we say that smoke is a sign of
fire, the smoke we notice is not yet a sign; even if we accept the
Stoic standpoint, smoke becomes a sign of fire not in the moment
in which it is perceived but when we decide that it stands for some-
thing else. In order to pass on to that moment, we must leave the
immediacy of perception and translate our experience into proposi-
tional terms so that the observation of smoke becomes the an-
tecedent of a semiosic inference: (i) there is smoke, (ii) if there is
smoke, (iii) then there is fire. The passage from (ii) to (iii) is a mat-
ter of inference expressed propositionally; while (i) is a matter of
perception.
On the contrary, we speak of perceptual semiosis not when some-
thing stands for something else but when from something, by an in-
ferential process, we come to pronounce a perceptual judgment on
that same something and not on anything else.5
Let us suppose that someone with almost no knowledge of
English but nonetheless accustomed to seeing English titles, names,
or phrases on record sleeves, postcards, or various tinned goods
126 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
receives a fax that, as often happens, has superimposed or distorted
lines and illegible letters. Let us suppose (by transcribing the illegi-
ble letters as X) that he attempts to read Xappy neX Xear. Even
without understanding the meaning of the words, he remembers
seeing expressions such as happy, new, and year and presumes that
these were the words the fax was intended to transmit. He will
therefore have made inferences solely on the basis of the graphic
form of the terms, from what was there on the sheet of paper (the
expression plane) and not from what the words stood for (and so he
would have to consult a dictionary).
Therefore any phenomenon, for it to be understood as a sign of
something else and from a certain point of view, must first of all be
perceived. The fact that the perception may be successful precisely
because we are guided by the notion that the phenomenon is hypo-
thetically understood as a sign (otherwise we would pay no atten-
tion to certain stimuli) does not eliminate the problem of how we
perceive it.6
When the phenomenological tradition speaks of "perceptual
meaning" it refers to something that legitimately precedes the con-
stitution of meaning as the content of an expression; and yet (see A
Theory of Semiotics 3.3) if I descry an indistinct animal form in the
darkness, the success of the perception (the judgment That is a dog)
is governed by a cognitive schema, something that I already know
about the dog and that can legitimately be considered as a part of
the content I usually assign to the word dog. In such a case I have
made an inference: I have surmised that the indistinct form I de-
scried in the darkness was a token of the type dog.
In the example of the fax, the letters -ear stand, in the inferential
process, for the y they make it possible to hypothesize. The subject
of our example possesses the (purely graphical) knowledge of at
least one English word that could end with those letters and there-
fore guesses that -ear is an (incomplete) token of the lexical type de-
nominated year. If on the other hand he has a good knowledge of
English, he will also have the right to assume that the missing letter
could be chosen from among b, d,f,g, h, n, p, r, t, and w (with each
of which one can form an English word that makes sense), without
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 127
being able to assume c, i, o, q, or u. But if he extends the inference
to the whole syntagm Xappy neX Xear, he notices that one solution
is more probable than the others, because he assumes that the
whole string (incomplete in three places) is none other than Happy
New Year (a stock phrase and a highly codified expression of good
wishes).
We could then say that even in such an elementary process the
token stands for its type. But what happens in the perception of un-
known objects (such as the platypus)? The process is certainly more
adventurous, that to stand for is contracted through processes of
trial and error, but the relation of mutual referral from type to to-
ken is fixed once a perceptual judgment has been established.7
If (as is reiterated in Eco 1984) the basic characteristic of semiosis
is inference, while the equivalence established by a code (a = b) is
only a scleroticized form of semiosis, fully found only in ciphers
(i.e., in the equivalences between one expression and the other, as in
Morse code—see Eco 1984: 1 7 2 - 7 3 ) , then the perceptual inference
may be considered a process of primary semiosis.8
Naturally it might be decided that the question is wholly nomi-
nalistic. If it were established that semiosis occurred only when in-
stitutionalized sign functions appeared, then any talk of semiosis in
the case of perception would be purely metaphorical—and in such
a case we would have to say that so-called primary semiosis is only
a precondition of semiosis. If this makes it possible to do away with
pointless discussion, I have no problems in speaking of perceptual
presemiosis.9
But things would not change that much, because, as
we shall see in the following story, the relation between this pri-
mary phase and the successive development of full-fledged semiosis
presents no evident fractures; rather, it constitutes a sequence of
phases in which the preceding one determines the following one.
3.3 MONTEZUMA AND THE HORSES
The first Aztecs to hasten to the coast witnessed the landing of the
conquistadors.1 0
Although only a very few traces of their first reac-
tions remain and the best information we have depends on Spanish
128 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
reports and indigenous chronicles written after the event, we know
for sure that various things must have completely amazed them:
the ships; the Spaniards' awesome and majestic beards; the protec-
tive coverings that lent those fully armored "aliens" with their un-
naturally white skins such a frightening air; the muskets and the
cannons; and finally, apart from the ferocious dogs, those unheard-
of monsters, the horses, in terrifying symbiosis with their riders.
The horses must have been no less perceptually puzzling than a
platypus. At first (maybe also because they did not distinguish the
animals from the pennants and armor that covered them), the
Aztecs thought that the invaders were riding deer (and in so think-
ing they behaved just like Marco Polo). Oriented therefore by a sys-
tem of previous knowledge but trying to coordinate it with what
they were seeing, they must have soon worked out a perceptual
judgment. An animal has appeared before us that seems like a deer but
isn't. Likewise they must not have thought that each Spaniard was
riding an animal of a different species, even though the horses
brought by the men of Cortes had diverse coats. They must there-
fore have got a certain idea of that animal, which at first they called
macatl, which is the word they used not only for deer but for all
quadrupeds in general. Later, since they began adopting and adapt-
ing the foreign names for the objects brought by the invaders, their
Nahuatl language transformed the Spanish caballo into cauayo or
kawayo.
At a certain point they decided to send messengers to Mon-
tezuma to tell him of the landing and of the terrifying marvels they
were witnessing. We have posterior evidence of the first message
they sent to their lord: one scribe gave the news in pictograms, and
he explained that the invaders were riding deer (macaoa, the plural
of macatl) as high as the roofs of the houses.
I don't know whether Montezuma, confronted with such in-
credible news (men dressed in iron with iron weapons, perhaps of
divine origin, equipped with prodigious instruments that hurled
stone balls capable of destroying all things), understood what those
"deer" were. I imagine that the messengers (worried about the fact
that in their neck of the woods, if the news was not to the hearer's
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 129
liking, there was a tendency to punish the bearer of it) screwed up
their courage and integrated the report with more than just words,
since it seems that Montezuma was wont to require his informers
to provide him with all the possible expressions for one and the
same thing. And so they must have used their bodies to hint at the
movements of the maqatl, imitating its whinnying, trying to show
how it had long hair along its neck, adding that it was most terrify-
ing and ferocious, capable in the course of the fray of overwhelm-
ing anyone who tried to withstand it.
Montezuma received some descriptions, on the basis of which he
tried to get some idea of that as yet unknown animal, and goodness
knows how he imagined it. That depended both on the skill of the
messengers and on his agility of wit. But he certainly understood
that it was an animal, and a worrisome one too. In fact, still accord-
ing to the chronicles, at first Montezuma did not ask other ques-
tions but withdrew into a distressing silence, with head bowed and
wearing an absent, sorrowful air.
Finally the encounter between Montezuma and the Spaniards
came to pass, and I would say that, no matter how confused the
messengers' description may have been, Montezuma must have
easily identified those things called maqaoa. Simply, faced with the
direct experience of the macatl, he must have adjusted the tenta-
tive idea he had conceived of them. Now, like his men, every time
he saw a macatl, he too would recognize it as such, and every time
he heard talk of maqaoa, he would understand what his interlocu-
tors were talking about.
Then, as he gradually got to know the Spaniards, he would
learn many things about horses, he would begin to call them
cauayo, he would learn where they came from, how they repro-
duced, what they ate, how they were reared and trained, what
other uses they could be put to, and to his regret he would very
soon understand how useful they could be in battle. But according
to the chronicles, he must also have harbored a suspicion regarding
the invaders' divine origins, because he was told that his men had
managed to kill two horses.
At a certain point the learning process whereby Montezuma was
130 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
gradually increasing his knowledge of horses stopped, not because
he could not learn any more but because he was killed. And there-
fore I will leave him (and the great number of those who were
massacred along with him for having had the revelation of Horse-
hood) in order to observe that in this story a great number of dif-
ferent semiotic phenomena come into play.
3.3.1 The Cognitive Type (CT)
At the close of their first perceptual process, the Aztecs elaborated
what we shall call a Cognitive Type (CT) of the horse. If they had
lived in a Kantian universe, we should say that this CT was the
schema that allowed them to mediate between the concept and the
manifold of the intuition. But for an Aztec where was the concept
of horse, given that he did not have one before the Spaniards
landed? Of course, after having seen some horses, the Aztecs must
have constructed a morphological schema not that dissimilar to a
3-D model, and it is on this basis that the coherence of their per-
ceptual acts must have been established. But by speaking of a CT, I
do not mean just a sort of image, a series of morphological or mo-
tor characteristics (the animal trots, gallops, rears); they had per-
ceived the characteristic neigh, and perhaps the smell, of horses.
Apart from the appearance, the Aztecs must have immediately at-
tributed a characteristic of "animality" to the horse, given that the
term macatl was immediately applied, as well as the capacity to in-
spire terror and the functional characteristic of being "rideable,"
since it was usually seen with human beings on its back. In short,
let's say that the CT of the horse was of a multimedial nature right
from the start.
3. j. /. / The recognition of tokens
On the basis of the CT thus elaborated, the Aztecs must have been
immediately able to recognize as horses other exemplars that they
had never seen before (and this apart from variations in color, size,
and vantage point). It is precisely the phenomenon of recognition
that induces us to talk of type, in fact, as a parameter for the com-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 131
parison of tokens. This type has nothing to do with an Aristotelian-
Scholastic "essence," and we have no interest in knowing what the
Aztecs grasped of the horse (perhaps wholly superficial features of
a kind that left them unable to discriminate between horses and
mules or donkeys). But it is certain that by talking of type in this
sense, we conjure up the ghost of a Lockian type of "general ideas,"
and some might object that we have no need of these to explain the
phenomenon of recognition. All we need say is that the Aztecs ap-
plied the same name to diverse individuals because they found
them similar to one another. But this notion of similarity between
individuals is no less confusing than that of similarity between a to-
ken and a type. Even to express a judgment according to which a
token X is similar to a token Y requires the elaboration of criteria
of similarity (two things are similar in some aspects and dissimilar
in others) and therefore the ghost of a type reappears that can be re-
ferred to as a parameter.
On the other hand, some contemporary cognitive theories tell us
that recognition occurs on the basis of prototypes, whereby an object
elected as a paradigm is deposited in the memory and then others
are recognized in relation to the prototype. But to say that an eagle
is a bird because it is similar to the prototype of the sparrow signi-
fies having chosen some features of the sparrow that are more per-
tinent than others (at the expense of dimensions, for example). And
so, if things were like this, our prototype would have become a
type.
If we were to reutilize the Kantian notion of schema here, the
CT could be a rule, a procedure for constructing the image of the
horse rather than a sort of multimedial image. In any case, what-
ever this CT may be, it is something that permits recognition. At
this point, having postulated the existence (somewhere or other) of
this type (schema or multimedial image, as it may be), we have if
nothing else cleared the field of a venerable presence, which be-
yond a doubt still inhabited the Kantian universe: if we postulate a
CT, we no longer have any need to bring concepts into play. Espe-
cially for our Aztecs, the CT does not mediate between the concept
of horse (which they could not have had anywhere, unless we
132 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
postulate a Platonism that is very transcultural) and the manifold of
the intuition. The CT is that which allowed them to unify the
manifold of the intuition, and if this was good enough for them, it
ought to be good enough for us too.
3-3-1-2 Naming and felicitous reference
And should someone come along and say that the concept of horse
is far richer than anything the Aztecs knew, this proves nothing.
There are plenty of people around who have a CT of the horse that
is no more elaborate than the one the Aztecs had, and that does not
prevent them from saying they know what horses are, given that
they can recognize them. In this phase of our story, there are a
great number of things that the Aztecs still do not know about the
horse (whence it comes, how it eats, how it reproduces, how it nur-
tures its young, how many breeds there are in the world, and even
whether it is a dumb animal or a rational being). But on the basis of
what they know, they manage not only to recognize it but also to
agree on a name for it, and in so doing, they realize that each one of
them reacts to the name by applying it to the same animals that the
others do. Naming is the first social act that convinces them that
they all recognize various individuals, at different times, as tokens
of the same type.
It was not necessary to name the object-horse to recognize it, just
as one day I may become aware of an internal sensation that is un-
pleasant but indefinable and recognize only that it is the same one I
felt the day before. However, "that thing I felt yesterday" is already
a name for the feeling I have; it would be even more a name if I
were to mention this feeling—an extremely private one, more-
over—to others. The passage to a generic term springs from the so-
cial need to be able to detach the name from the hie et nunc of the
situation, and then to bind it to the type.
But how did the Aztecs know they were applying the name
macatl to the same CT? A Spanish observer (let's call him Jose
Gavagai) might have wondered whether, when an Aztec indicated
a generic point in space-time by saying macatl, he meant by that
name the animal that every Spaniard recognized; or else the still in-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 133
separable unit made up of horse-horseman, the animal's shining
trappings, the fact that an unknown thing was coming toward him;
or whether he wanted to express the proposition "Behold as out of
the sea come those divine beings promised by our prophets and that
one day Gulliver will call Houyhnhnms!"
The certainty that everybody shares a common CT, correspond-
ing to the name, comes about only in cases of felicitous reference
(i.e., of reference crowned by success). In 5, I shall be dealing with
how problematic the notion of reference is. But experience tells us
that there are cases in which we refer to something and others have
shown that they understand very well what we wanted to refer
to—for example, when we ask someone to bring us the book that is
on the table, and this someone brings us the book and not a pen.
Given that the Spaniards rapidly allied themselves with some local
populations, if someone had asked a native to bring him a horse,
and the native returned bringing a horse (and not a basket, a
flower, a bird, or a portion of horse), we would have the proof that
with that name both parties identified tokens of the same CT.
On this basis it is possible to suggest the existence of CTs with-
out being obliged to wonder what and where they are. While in
times of violent antimentalism it was forbidden even to hypothe-
size the existence of any mental event whatsoever, in a period in
which cognitive studies are flourishing it is legitimate to wonder
whether the CT of the horse in the "mind" of the Aztecs was made
up of mental images, diagrams, definite descriptions expressed
propositionally; or whether it consisted of a set of semantic markers
and abstract relations that constituted the innate alphabet of their
"mentalese," and they processed strings of discrete signals in pure
Boolean terms. A problem of maximum import in the world of
the cognitive sciences, but, in my view, wholly irrelevant from the
standpoint I have chosen to adopt: to take into account only the
data of a folk psychology or, rather, to revive a venerable philo-
sophical concept that I hold to be still of maximum usefulness, that
is, to consider things from a standpoint of common sense. It is on the
basis of common sense that we find evidence of the two phenomena
of recognition And felicitous reference}1
134 I K A N T A N D T H E
P L A T Y P U S
3.3.1.3 The CT and the blacky box
What happens in our "black box" when we perceive something is a
problem that cognitive scientists debate by discussing, for example,
(i) whether the environment provides us with all the necessary in-
formation without a constructive contribution on the part of our
mental or neural apparatus, or whether there is a selection, inter-
pretation, and reorganization of the stimulating field; (ii) whether
in the black box there is something that may be designated as
"mind" or pure neural processes, or whether, as happens in the
field of neoconnectivism, we can assert an identity between rule
and data; (iii) where cognitive types or schemata of any kind are (if
there are any); and (iv) how they are configured mentally or cere-
brally. All these are problems I do not intend to deal with.
CTs may be in the mind, in the brain, in the liver, in the pineal
gland (were the pineal gland not already occupied, these days, by
melatonin); they could even belong to an impersonal warehouse,
packed into some universal active intellect, whence a miserly divin-
ity takes them and doles them out to me, out of occasionalism,
every time I need them (and the cognitive scientists who spend
their lives questioning subjects that cannot tell a glass from a plate
will have to decide why some of those subjects' cerebral areas are
no longer in tune with the divine wavelength). But we must start
from the principle that, if there are felicitous acts of reference, it is
because, both in recognizing a second time something perceived
previously and in deciding that object A and object B can satisfy
the requisite of being a glass, a horse, or a building—or that two
forms are both definable as right-angled triangles—we relate to-
kens to a type (whether it be a psychic phenomenon, a physically
existing prototype, or one of those Third World entities that phi-
losophy has always tried to account for, from Plato to Frege, from
Peirce to Popper).
Postulating CTs does not even oblige us to decide beforehand
whether they assume, wholly or in part, the configuration of a
mental image or are simply computable and processable in terms
of discrete symbols. It is well known how this debate between
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 135
iconophiles and iconophobes is today a central issue for cognitive psy-
chologists. We might restrict ourselves to a summary of the
Kosslyn-Pylyshyn polemic:1 2
on the one hand, forms of mental rep-
resentation of the iconic type seem indispensable if we are to ex-
plain a whole series of cognitive processes with respect to which
propositional explanations emerge as insufficient, and this hypoth-
esis would also seem confirmed by computer simulations; on the
other hand, mental imagination would seem to be a simple epiphe-
nomenon, explicable as an elaboration of information accessible
only in digital terms. From this standpoint, therefore, mental im-
ages are not incorporated into our hardware but are only secondary-
output.
Now, it could be said that love does not exist on a neural level
and that falling in love is an epiphenomenon based fundamentally
on complex physiological interactions, which might one day be ex-
pressible through an algorithm. This does not stop the epiphenom-
enon "falling in love" from being central to our personal and social
life, to art and literature, to morals, and often even to politics. The
result is that a semiotics of the passions does not wonder about
what happens in our hardware when we feel hate or fear, anger or
love (even though something worth investigating certainly does
happen), but about how it happens that we recognize them, express
them, and interpret them—so that we understand perfectly well
what it means when Orlando is described as furioso rather than in-
namorato.
Semiosic experience tells us that we have the impression that we
retain mental images (even if a mind does not exist), and above
all that we interpret many terms publicly and intersubjectively
through visual representations. And so the iconic component of
knowledge must be postulated as well as the existence of the CT, if
we are to account for what common sense proposes to us. Images
are as much systems of instructions as they are verbal devices, and
if I have to tell someone how to get to Main Street, I can supply
him with lengthy verbal indications regarding the streets he must
take as well as show him a map (which is not an image of Main
136 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Street but a diagrammatic procedure that makes it possible to find
it). Which of the two procedures is the better depends on the
capacities and disposition of my interlocutor.1 3
My refusal to stick my nose into the black box might be inter-
preted as a confession that philosophy (and in this specific case gen-
eral semiotics as a philosophy) is an "inferior" form of knowledge
with respect to science. But this is not the case. We can postulate
the CTs in the black box precisely because we can have an inter-
subjective check on what constitutes their output. We have the
instruments with which to talk about this output—and this is per-
haps the contribution that semiotics can make to the cognitive sci-
ences, that is to say, to the semiotic aspect of the cognitive processes.
3.3.2 From CT toward Nuclear Content (NC)
Whereas at first the Aztecs might have felt that their CT was pri-
vate, as soon as they all began indicating the same animals by pro-
nouncing the name macatl, they must have realized that, on the
contrary, the CT had established an area of consensus. At first the
area of consensus could be postulated only to explain the fact that
they understood one another by using the same word. But bit by bit
they must have proceeded to collective interpretations of what they
understood by that word. They associated a "content" with the ex-
pression macatl. These interpretations were as similar as we can
imagine to a definition, but we certainly cannot think that our
Aztecs had said to one another that by macatl they meant, as an en-
cyclopedia might put it, "a browsing herbivorous mammal of the
family Equidae, order Perissodactyla, with a highly developed
middle toe of the foot enveloped by a protective nail (hoof)."
At first this agreement must have taken place as a disordered ex-
change of experiences (some would have pointed out that the ani-
mal had hair along its neck, some that the hair in question swirled
in the wind when the animal was galloping, while someone must
have been the first to note that the trappings were extraneous to the
creature's body, and so on). In other words, the Aztecs gradually
interpreted the features of their CT, in order to homologate it as
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 137
much as possible. While their CT (or CTs) could have been pri-
vate, these interpretations were public: if they had written them
down, or had used pictograms, or if someone had tape-recorded
what they said to one another, we would have a verifiable series of
interpretants. As a matter of fact we have them, in the sense that in-
digenous testimony is still extant, and while we do not know ex-
actly what went through the heads of the first Aztecs when they
first saw horses, it is only because we have reason to suspect that the
testimony is decidedly tardy, interpretations of the interpretations
that the conquistadors had made of the Aztecs' first behavioral re-
sponses. But if these interpretants were available integrally, as is the
case with the scientists who saw a platypus for the first time, the
Aztecs would not only make clear what their CT was but also cir-
cumscribe the meaning they assigned to the expression macatl.
We shall call this set of interpretants the Nuclear Content (NC).
I prefer to speak of Nuclear Content rather than Meaning, be-
cause by time-honored tradition one tends to associate meaning
with a mental experience. In certain languages the confusion is
greater than in others, and we need think only of the English word
meaning, which can stand for "that which exists in the mind" but
also for an intention, for what is recognized as being, for what is
denoted or understood, for sense, signification, and so on. Nor
should we forget that meaning can also appear as a form of the verb
to mean, which is variously defined as to have in mind, to intend, to
stand for, and only in a few cases does it come to denote a socially
recorded synonymy (the example given in Webster is "the word ja
in German means yes"). The same variations of sense are found also
in the German verb meinen. As far as Italian is concerned, even
though the term significato is more often understood as "a concept
expressed by a sign," the pair significato and significare can be used
for the expression of thoughts or sentiments, for the emotional
effect caused by an expression, for the importance or value that
something assumes for us, and so on.
On the other hand, the term content—in Hjelmslev's sense, as
the correlate of an expression—is less compromised and may be
used, as I shall use it, in a public sense and not a mental one. Once
I38 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
this has been made clear, when the requirements of argument of
some current theory may encourage me to do so, I shall use the
word meaning, but only as a synonym of content.
In certain cases CT and NC can practically coincide, when the
CT wholly determines the interpretants expressed by the NC and
the NC makes it possible to conceive an adequate CT. Nevertheless
I wish to make clear yet again that the CT is private, while the NC is
public. We are not talking about one and the same phenomenon
(which some might call generically "the Aztecs' competence re-
garding horses"): on the one hand, we are talking about a phenom-
enon of perceptual semiosis (CT) and, on the other, about a
phenomenon of communicative consensus (NC). The CT—which
cannot be seen and cannot be touched—may be postulated only on
the basis of the phenomena of recognition, identification, and felic-
itous reference; the NC represents the way in which we try inter-
subjectively to make clear which features go to make up a CT. The
NC, which we recognize in the form of interpretants, can be seen
and touched—and this is not just a metaphor, given that the inter-
pretants of the term horse include a great many horses sculpted in
bronze or stone.
If Montezuma had collected all the pictograms drawn by his
messengers, filmed their gestures, tape-recorded their words, and
then locked up all this testimony in a chest before having the mes-
sengers put to death and then committing suicide, what remained
in that chest would be the content of the expression macatl for the
Aztecs. It would then be up to the archaeologist who found that
chest to interpret those interpretants in his turn, and only through
the interpretation of that content would the archaeologist be able,
afterward, to conjecture what the Aztecs' CT of a horse had been.
A CT does not necessarily spring from a perceptual experience;
it can be transmitted culturally (in the form of an NC) and lead to
the success of a future perceptual experience. Such was the NC of
macatl that the messengers communicated to Montezuma by means
of images, gestures, sounds, and words. On the basis of these
interpretations Montezuma must have tried to get an "idea" of
horses. This "idea" is the nucleus of the CT that he temporar-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 139
ily constructed on the basis of the NC received in the form of
interpretations.1 4
The way in which NCs are expressed also helps to loosen the
knot regarding the question as to whether we have mental images
or not.1
' An NC is expressed sometimes in words, sometimes with
gestures, sometimes through images or diagrams. Basically, the
drawing of Marr's 3-D model, insofar as it is public, is an element
of the NC that interprets a procedural modality of our CT. In our
brain, what corresponds to that presumed image? Neuronal activa-
tion, let's say. Now, even if the pattern of that activation did not
correspond to what we intuitively call an image, those cerebral
phenomena would represent the cause or the equivalent of our
ability both to conceive and to interpret our type of the horse. We
postulate a CT as a disposition to produce an NC, and we treat an
NC as proof that there is a CT around somewhere.
3.3.2.1 Instructions for identification
The NC of the term also supplies criteria or instructions for the
identification of one of the tokens of the type (or rather, as they say,
for the identification of the referent).1 6
1 use "identification" instead
of "recognition" because I should like to reserve the latter term for
cognitive phenomena strictly dependent on a previous perceptual
experience, and the former term for the capacity to identify percep-
tually something about which we still have no experience. I iden-
tified an alligator, the first time I saw one on the banks of the
Mississippi, on the basis of the instructions that had been supplied
to me previously through words and images. That is, the NC of
the word alligator had been communicated to me.
By supplying instructions with which to identify a token of the
type, the NC orients one toward the formation of a tentative CT. If
the messengers supplied Montezuma with good interpretations, his
tentative CT would have been so rich and precise as to permit im-
mediate identification, with few readjustments on the basis of di-
rect perception. But sometimes the instructions supplied by the NC
are insufficient. The messengers might have insisted to such a point
on the analogy with deer that Montezuma was led to construct a
I40 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
tentative CT so imperfect, it rendered easy identification of horses
impossible at the first encounter, so that he confused horses with
the oxen in the train of the soldiers.1
'
3.3.2.2 Instructions for retrieval
There is another possibility: that the messengers did not success-
fully express the properties of the horse to Montezuma. They
might have restricted themselves to telling him that some strange
and terrible animals had appeared at a point on the coast, and that
if he went to that place, he would see white men who wore iron
trappings and moved by sitting with legs astride something; and
this something was what the messengers were referring to. In this
way they would have supplied Montezuma with instructions not
for the identification but for the retrieval of the object.
The cases I am about to cite concern the CTs of individuals, of
which I shall have more to say in 3.7.6, but in any event they serve
to distinguish identification from retrieval. First case: Every eve-
ning I bump into a man in the bar; I recognize him every time, but
I don't know his name, and if I were to correlate an NC to the
generic name man, it would simply be the description "the man I
see every evening in the bar." One day I see this man robbing the
bank across the road. On my being questioned by the police, by
means of verbal interpretations I help the specialized artist make a
fairly accurate sketch of him. I have supplied instructions for the
identification of this person, and the police can elaborate a CT of
him (albeit a vague one—with the result that there is a risk of their
erroneously identifying someone else). Second case: Every evening I
recognize a man in the bar, even though I have never observed him
closely, but one day I hear him saying over the telephone that his
name is George Brown and that he lives at number 15 London
Road. One day this man argues with the bartender, whom he kills
by smashing a bottle over his head, then he flees. The police ques-
tion me as a witness, but I am quite unable to give the artist in-
structions for a sketch (at most I can say that the man in question is
tall, with ordinary features and an unpleasant look), but I can sup-
ply his name and address. On the basis of my private CT, I cannot
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 141
supply instructions for identification; but on the basis of the NC
that I associate with the name George Brown (a being of the male
sex who lives at 15 London Road), I am able to provide the police
with instructions for his retrieval.
3.3.3 Molar Content (MC)
When, having seen horses in the flesh and having talked with the
Spaniards, Montezuma acquired other information about horses,
he could have reached the point where he knew what a Spaniard
knew about them (though not as much as a zoologist knows today).
In this case he would have had what is called a complex knowledge
of them. Note that I am talking not about an "encyclopedic"
knowledge, in the sense of a difference between Dictionary and
Encyclopedia (to which I shall return in 4.1), but about "broadened
knowledge," which includes notions that are not indispensable for
perceptual recognition (e.g., that horses are reared in such and such
a way or that they are mammals). With regard to this broadened
competence I shall talk of Molar Content (MC). The format of
Montezuma's MC might be different from that of his first messen-
gers or his priests, and it would be in continuous expansion. We
cannot be sure how it evolved—we need only think of the fact that
in our times the MC of horse includes the information that this ani-
mal flourishes in the American continent (something that certainly
could not have been said in Montezuma's day). I would not identify
the MC with knowledge exclusively expressible in propositional
form, because it could include images of horses of various breeds or
of different ages.
A zoologist has an MC of horse, and so does a jockey, even
though the two areas of competence are not coextensive. It is on the
level of MC that Putnam's division of linguistic labor occurs, some-
thing I would prefer to define as a division of cultural labor. On the
level of MC there ought to be generalized consensus, albeit with
some fraying and gray areas (see 3.5.2). And since it is this area
of consensus that constitutes the nucleus of the present discourse,
I would tend to avoid considering the MC, which can assume
I42 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
different forms depending on the subject and represents portions of
sectorial competence. Let us say that the sum of the MCs coincides
with the Encyclopedia as a regulative idea and a semiotic postulate,
as is said in Eco 1984, 5.2.
3.3.4. NC, MC, and concepts
On reading the first version of these pages, someone asked me the
difference among NC, MC, and concept. I would not know how to
answer the question before I resolved two cases: (i) What is the dif-
ference between the cognitive type of the platypus constructed by
its first discoverer and the concept of platypus that he obviously
could not have had previously, not even in the case of an overpopu-
lated Platonic universe? (ii) What is the difference between the first
Aztecs' concept of the horse and a zoologist's concept of the same
animar?
For the first question, it strikes me as evident that, right from
the Kantian idea of a schema for empirical concepts, it was clear
that, if a concept existed, it ought to have been mediated by the
schema. But if we introduce the schema, then there is no need for
concept—and let proof of that be the possibility of constructing
schemata for concepts we do not have, like that of the platypus.
Therefore the idea of concept becomes a perplexing residue.
For the second question, if by "concept" we mean a mental con-
ception, as etymologists would have it, there are two answers:
either the concept governs perceptual recognition, and in that
case it is the same as the CT and is expressed not by the classic
definition but by the NC; or it is a rigorous and scientific defi-
nition of the object, and in that case it is the same as a particular
sectorial MC.
It seems outrageous to say so, but from the point of view from
which I have adopted the word concept, it comes to mean only what
one has in mind. Owing to my intention not to look into the black
box, I cannot say what this might be. I wonder, rather, whether
those who do look inside the black box ask themselves what it is.
But that's another matter.
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 143
3.3.5 On referring
Throughout the story we have been examining, the Aztecs assign
an NC to the expression macatl, but when they speak among them-
selves about what they have seen, they refer to individual horses. I
shall be talking about that very complex phenomenon, the act of
referring, in 5. Here we need to detach not only the content from
the reference but also the instructions for the identification of the
referent from the concrete acts of referring. Someone could have re-
ceived instructions for identifying an armadillo and yet never in his
life referred to an armadillo (i.e., he never said This is an armadillo
or There is an armadillo in the kitchen).
The CT provides instructions for identifying the referent, and
this undoubtedly constitutes a form of competence. Referring to
Something is, instead, a form of performance. It is certainly based
on referential competence but, as we shall see in 5, not only on that.
The referent of the word horse is a thing. Referring to horses is an
act, not a thing.
After listening to his messengers' accounts, Montezuma pos-
sessed an embryonic competence, but if, as was related, he with-
drew for some time into a stubborn silence, then he did not
immediately carry out any act of reference to horses. Even before
they provided him with instructions for identifying the referent,
his messengers were referring to horses when they told him they
intended to talk to him about Things they dared not describe. On
emerging from his silence, Montezuma could have referred to
these as yet unknown Things, for example by asking what and
how they were, even before he possessed instructions for their
identification. In this way he would have demonstrated that one
can understand reference to entities, and one can refer to them,
without possessing a CT or even an NC. Montezuma understood
that the messengers were carrying out an act of reference, and
nevertheless he was unable to understand what the referent of that
act was.
144 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
3.4. SEMIOSIC PRIMITIVES
3.4.1 Semiosic primitives and interpretation
Let us think of a being placed in an elementary environment,
before it comes into contact with others of its kind. However it de-
cides to name them, this being will have to acquire some funda-
mental "notions" (no matter how it might later decide to organize
them into systems of categories, or in any case into units of con-
tent). It will have to have a notion of high and low (essential for its
corporeal equilibrium); of standing upright or lying down; of some
physiological operations, such as swallowing or excreting; of walk-
ing, sleeping, seeing, hearing; of perceiving thermic, olfactory, or
gustatory sensations; of feeling pain or relief; of clapping hands,
thrusting a finger into some soft material, hitting, gathering, rub-
bing, scratching, and so on. As soon as it comes into contact with
other" beings, or with the surrounding environment in general, it
will have to have notions regarding the presence of something that
opposes its body: coitus, struggle, the possession or the loss of an ob-
ject of desire, probably the cessation of life... However it comes to
name these fundamental experiences, they are certainly original.
This means to say that the moment in which we "enter lan-
guage," there is a disposition toward meaning of a prelinguistic
character; in other words, there are "certain classes of meanings
about which human beings are in innate agreement."1 8
The attri-
bution of animality to a certain object would be an example of this
type. It may be that such an attribution will later emerge as erro-
neous, as would happen in the case of an archaic mentality that saw
the clouds as animals, but it is certain that one of the first ways in
which we react to what comes toward us in the environment is an
attribution of animality or vitality to an object standing before us,
and this has nothing to do with "categories" such as Animal: the
animality I am talking about is certainly precategorial.
I shall say in 3.4.2 why I consider this use of the terms category,
categorial, and precategorial to be improper. In any case, notions
such as Animal, Mineral, and Artifact (which in many composi-
tional semantics are considered as semantic primitives, probably in-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 145
nate, not open to further analysis, and occasionally constituted in
hierarchic finite systems of hyponyms and hyperonyms) can make
sense as elements of an MC. The possibility of their being primi-
tive, impervious to analysis, and organized into hierarchies and the
question of to what extent a finite inventory of them can be con-
ceived have been discussed in Eco (1984, 2). They certainly depend
not on perceptual experience but on a segmentation and organiza-
tion of the continuum of the content that presupposes a coordinated
system of assumptions. The semiosic primitives I am talking about
are not like this, as they depend on the preclassificatory perception
of something as either living and animated or devoid of life.
When we feel on the arm or the hand the presence of a foreign
body, no matter how small, occasionally without even looking (and
sometimes the interval between perceptual hypothesis and motor
response is infinitesimal), either we use the other hand to squash
something, or we prime the index finger with the thumb to flick
something away. Usually we squash when we have assumed (even
before having decided, because our safety depends on the speed of
our reflexes) that the presence is a mosquito or some other bother-
some insect, and we flick the body away when we assume it is veg-
etable or mineral waste. If it is decided that we must "kill," it is
because a feature of animality in the foreign body has been noticed.
It is a primary recognition, preconceptual (in any case prescientific),
having to do with perception and not with categorial knowledge (if
anything, it orients categorial knowledge, it offers itself as a basis
for interpretation at higher cognitive levels).
3.4.2 On categories
Cognitive psychology often talks of our capacity for thought as be-
ing founded on the possibility of categorial organization. The idea
is that the world of which we have experience is made up of such a
number of objects and events, that if we were to identify and name
them all individually, we would be overwhelmed by the complexity
of the environment. And so the only way to avoid becoming a pris-
oner of the particular lies in our capacity to "categorize," that is, to
I46 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
make different things equivalent, grouping objects and events into
classes (e.g., Bruner et al. 1956).
In itself the idea is incontrovertible. But, and this is not to say that
the ancients had already thought of everything, if we substitute
"categorization" with the term "conceptualization," it will be no-
ticed that yet again we are talking about the problem of how lan-
guage (and with it our cognitive apparatus) leads us to talk and
think in generalia—in other words, that we unite individuals in sets.
Grouping manifold tokens under a single type is the way in
which language (affected, as they used to say in the Middle Ages,
by penuria nominum) works. But it is one thing to say that, faced
with various individuals, we manage to think of them all as "cat"
and another to say that we manage to think of all cats as animals
(or felines). These are two different problems. Knowing that a cat
is a feline seems to belong more to the competence registered as
MC than to that registered as NC, while the quasi immediate per-
ception of cat struck us as a precategorial phenomenon.
The fact is that in contemporary literature on this subject, the
term "category" is used in a way very different from the one in
which it was used by both Aristotle and Kant, even though we of-
ten see authors who, when they tackle the problem, refer b a c k -
without specific quotations but and in an almost rhetorical attempt
to legitimize their assumptions—to the classical heritage.
Aristotle thought there were ten categories, the Substance and
the nine predicates that could be predicated of them, i.e., that
something was in a certain time, in a certain place, that it had cer-
tain qualities, that it feared something or did something else, et
cetera. What a certain subject was (a man, a dog, a tree) was not a
problem for Aristotle. One perceived a substance and understood
what its essence was (in other words, Aristotle thought that as soon
as we see the token of a man, we assign it to the type "man"). In the
Aristotelian sense, applying the categories does not go much fur-
ther than saying that a cat is being perceived, that it is white, that it
is running through the Lyceum, etc.). From the standpoint of con-
temporary cognitive psychology, all this would belong to the pre-
categorial, or it would barely bring into play those things that are
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 147
called "basic categories," such as "cat," and bring into play also a
rather vaguely defined activity that would consist in recognizing
that a given object has active or passive properties.
For Kant, categories were something far more abstract than the
Aristotelian categories (unity, plurality, reality, negation, substance
and accident, causality, etc.), and we saw in 2.3 how difficult it was
for him to say what they have to do with empirical concepts such as
dog, chair, swallow, or sparrow.
But let us get back to Aristotle. That on seeing a cat running
through the Lyceum, one perceived a cat running through the
Lyceum was a natural and spontaneous fact for him. Naturally,
then, there was the matter of defining what the substance "cat" was.
As definition was arrived at through genus and difference, the
Aristotelian tradition had to identify the predicates. The predica-
t e s are as close as you can get to the categories as understood by
modern taxonomies: they are instruments for definition (in the
Aristotelian tradition, the cat is a mortal irrational animal, and I
grant that this is not a lot, while for modern taxonomies it is of the
species Felis catus, genus Felis, sub-order Fissipeda, and so on, all the
way to the class of Mammals).
Is this type of classification—and we could talk of categorization
if we took the Aristotelian predicables as subcategories—essen-
tial for the recognition of something? Not a bit. Certainly not for
Aristotle, who failed to define the camel satisfactorily (see Eco
1983, 4.2.1.1) but who nonetheless continued to identify and name
it correctly; and not even for cognitive psychology, because no one
has ever denied that someone is capable of perceiving and recog-
nizing a platypus without necessarily knowing whether it is a
Mammal, Bird, or Amphibian.
In a certain sense, with regard to this matter, the perplexity
would be greater for Aristotle than it would be for Kant or the con-
temporary cognitivists. The cognitivists would get around the
problem, if need be, by assuming that there is something of the pre-
categorial in perception. Kant managed to transfer dogs and cats to
the ranks of the empirical concepts, and their classification into
genera and species into the territory of reflective judgment. But
I48 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Aristotle tells us that when faced with an individual substance, we
understand what its essence is (man or cat), and he would have
willingly admitted that it was possible for a slave to recognize a cat
even if the slave could not express the definition, yet when he must
say what the substance is, he can do it only in terms of definition,
by appealing to genus and differentia. It is as if Aristotle were to ad-
mit that in some way we have CTs but we can interpret them only
in terms of an MC (since the knowledge of classifications apper-
tains to the MC).
Unless he wanted to say exactly what we are saying: that to per-
ceive (by applying categories—his) is to move precisely in what is
today called the precategorial, and that attributions of life, animal-
ity, and even rationality are precategorial. At least in the sense that
Aquinas tried to explain it.1 9
We do not at all perceive differences
such as rationality but infer them from perceivable accidents; the
result is that we infer that man is rational through exterior mani-
festations, for example, the fact that he talks or is a biped. And
therefore it is the immediate perception of these accidents that
comes to be part of the perceptual experience, and the rest is culti-
vated elaboration.
What contemporary cognitivism calls categories (which would
have been the predicables for Aristotle) are, rather, what the
natural sciences call taxa, which are embedded into one an-
other from species to genus (or from orders to classes, or from
classes to kingdoms). What cognitivism calls basic categories
are certainly CTs, while what it calls superordinate categories
(as Tool, with respect to the basic category of hammer) are taxa.
Taxa belong to a more complex phase of cultural elaboration
and are stored in the MC of some particularly gifted speakers (they
depend on a coherent system of propositions, or on a given cultural
paradigm).
By the way, I would point out that the distinction was already
very clear in John Stuart Mill, when he was examining the various
naturalistic classifications that in his day were still the subject of
heated debate:
Cognitive Types and Nticlear Content I 149
There is... a classification of things, which is inseparable from the
fact of giving them general names. Every name which connotes an
attribute, divides, by that very fact, all things whatever into two
classes, those which have the attribute and those which have not...
The Classification which requires to be discussed as a separate act
of the mind, is altogether different. In the one, the arrangement of
objects in groups, and distribution of them into compartments, is a
mere incidental effect consequent upon the use of names given for
another purpose, namely that of simply expressing some of their
qualities. In the other, the arrangement and distribution are the
main object, and the naming is secondary to, and purposely con-
forms itself to, instead of governing, that more important opera-
tion.
Since one cannot combat the inertia of language, I too shall
adapt myself to calling these classificatory items categories, but let
it be clear that they do not contribute immediately to telling us
what a thing is. They show how it becomes hierarchically ordered
in a system of basic, superordinate, and subordinate concepts.2 0
Another observation is that if categories (in the modern sense of
the term) are taxa, they have nothing at all to do with those primi-
tives elaborated or identified by "featural semantics"—and that by
chance have the same name as many categories or taxa, the ones
that are usually printed in small capitals, such as ANIMAL, HUMAN,
LIVING, ADULT, et cetera. It is a matter for discussion as to whether
these primitives are finite in number, whether they function by
conjunction or by intersection, but they are not always organized
into hierarchies like taxa, even though in some authors they are or-
ganized by relations of hypo- or hyperonymy (for this argument,
see Violi 1997, 2.1 and 4.1). In fact, these semantic primitives are of-
ten assimilable to those I have called semiosic primitives (which
some would define as precategorial).
If noticing that something is a body, it flies in the sky, it is
ananimal, and has weight are semiosic primitives, then, if any-
thing, taxa come into being as elaborations of such precategorial
150 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
experiences—at least in the sense of "precategorial" that I have re-
signed myself to respecting.
3.4.3 Semiosic primitives and verbalization
Wierzbicka (1996), who backs up her hypotheses with a vast recog-
nition of different languages, persuasively maintains the existence
of certain primes common to all cultures. In her view, these are no-
tions such as I, Someone, Something, This, Other, One, Two,
Many, Much, Think, Want, Feel, Say, Do, Happen, Good, Bad,
Small, Big, When, Before, After, Where, Under, No, Some, Live,
Far, Near, If, and Then (my summarized list is incomplete). The
interesting aspect of this proposal is that it aims at resolving all
other possible definitions in terms of these primitives.
Nevertheless, before going on to utilize some of Wierzbicka's
suggestions, I wish to make it clear that I assume these primes with
all due caution. To say that these notions are original does not nec-
essarily mean admitting (i) that they are phylogenetically primitive
and therefore innate: they can be primitives only for a single indi-
vidual, while other individuals start from other, different experi-
ences (for example, seeing will not be a primitive experience for
someone born blind); (ii) that they are universal (even though I see
no obvious reason for denying this; but we have to make a distinc-
tion between the theoretical hypothesis of their universality and as-
certaining empirically that precise terms for them exist in all
known languages); (iii) that by virtue of their being primitives they
are not interpretable.
Point (iii) represents a weakness in Wierzbicka's argument. This
fallacy springs from the fact that it has traditionally been assumed
that the semantic primitives mentioned in the previous para-
graphs—those presumed features such as HUMAN or ADULT that
ought to constitute atoms of meaning that may not be split any fur-
ther—are noninterpretable. But what Wierzbicka calls primes are
not like this—even though the author sometimes tends to treat
them as if they were. They are not meaning postulates; they are el-
ements of a primordial experience. To say that a child has a pri-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 151
mordial experience of milk (and so one presumes that as she grows,
she will know exactly what milk is) does not mean at all that the
child, upon request, cannot interpret the content of mil\ (see in
3.7.2 what a child does when asked to interpret the word water). It
may be that those experiences expressed by the words see and hear
are primordial experiences of this sort, but even a child is capable of
interpreting them (with reference to different organs).
By not admitting this Wierzbicka reacts emphatically to the
opinion held by Goodman (1951: 57), according to which "it is not
because a term is indefinable that it is chosen as primitive; rather, it
is because a term has been chosen as primitive for a system that it is
indefinable ...In general, the terms adopted as primitives of a given
system are readily definable in some other system. There is no ab-
solute primitive." Wilkins has already shown us how it is possible,
through a spatial and nonpropositional cognitive schema, to inter-
pret and define both high and low, both toward and under, or inside
(see Eco 1993, 2.8.3).
Having made this reservation clear, Wierzbicka starts off with
an acceptable criticism of the so-called definitions of dictionary and
of encyclopedia. Take the example of the mouse (1996: 340 ff.). If
the definition of the term mouse is also to allow us to be able to
identify the referent, or in any event to have a mental representa-
tion of a mouse (just as Montezuma must have imagined what a
horse was like), it is clear that a strictly dictionary-type definition
such as "mammal, murid, rodent" (which goes back to the taxa
of the naturalistic classifications) is insufficient. This insufficiency
seems to extend even to the definition proposed by the Encyclopedia
Britannica, which starts off with a zoological classification, specifies
the areas in which the mouse flourishes, and expatiates on its re-
productive processes, its social life, its relations with man and the
domestic environment, and so on. Those who have never seen a
mouse would never be able to identify one on the basis of this ex-
tremely vast and organized collection of data.
In opposition to these two definitions Wierzbicka offers her own
folk definition, which contains primitive terms only. The definition
takes up two pages and is made up of items of this type:
152 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
People call them Mice— People think that they are all of the same
kind—because they come from other creatures of the same kind—
People think they live in or near places where people live—Because
they want to eat things that people keep for people to eat— People
don't want them to live there...
A person could hold one easily in one hand—(most people
wouldn't want to hold them). They are grayish or brownish—
One cannot notice them easily—(some creatures of this type are
white)...
They have short legs—because of this when they move you can't
see their legs moving and it seems as if their whole body touches
the ground ...
Their head looks as if it were not a separate part of the body—
The whole body looks like one small thing with a long thin hairless
tail-,— The front part of the head is pointed— It has a few stiff hairs
sticking out sideways— There are two round ears sticking up one
on each side of the head— They have small sharp teeth that they
bite things with.
This folk definition recalls the Kantian idea that the schema for
dog must contain the instructions for imagining the form of the
dog. If we were to play one of those parlor games in which some-
one verbally describes a drawing and someone else must manage to
reproduce it (a game measuring at once the verbal capacities of the
former and the capacity for visualization of the latter), the game
might succeed, in that the second person could probably respond to
Figure 3.1
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 153
the description-stimulus proposed by Wierzbicka by drawing an
image like that shown in figure 3 . 1 .
But is the image only the interpretative output of the verbal def-
inition, or is it a primary and constitutive element of that defini-
tion? In other words, is this morphological schema also a part of
our NC of the mouse? A good encyclopedia should insert, into the
long and satisfying scientific definition of the mouse, also a draw-
ing or a photo of a mouse. Wierzbicka does not trouble to tell us
whether the encyclopedia she consulted contains an illustration,
nor whether it is a bad thing that it does not. This oversight is not
fortuitous: the explanation comes on page 332, where it is main-
tained that language cannot reflect the neural representation of
color, because the representation is private, while language "reflects
conceptualization." It is for this reason that, while seeking to gain a
firm hold on the notion of semiosic primitives that should precede
the very processes of categorization, she ends up by recognizing the
primitives only insofar as they are expressible in (general) verbal
terms, with the result that the semiosic primitive of "something" is
deliberately printed as SOMETHING—in other words, as if it were a
semantic primitive closely bound to the use of verbal language.2 2
3.4.4 Qualia and interpretation
If there were noninterpretable primes, we should have to return to
the problem of qualia (which I thought I had laid aside in the pre-
vious chapter) and return to Peirce. Let us pose the problem in its
toughest and most provocative form: Do we have CTs for qualia?
If the answer is no, then qualia are "bricks" for the construction of
CTs, but in that case we can say neither why we predicate them
(this thing is red or boiling) nor why we usually agree about such
predications—albeit at the cost of some negotiation. Peirce had said
as much: the first feeling that I have of something white is pure
possibility, but when I proceed to the comparison of two qualities
of white, I can begin a series of inferences and therefore of inter-
pretations; the perceptual judgment desingularizes the quality
(CP 7.633). This shift to Thirdness is already a shift to the universal.
154 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
It has been a matter of endless discussion as to whether my feeling
of red is the same as my interlocutor's feeling, but, except in cases of
color blindness, when I tell someone to fetch me the red pen, there is
usually a case of felicitous reference, and I do not receive the black
pen. Since felicitous reference has been assumed as a proof that the
CTs exist (in the black box), then qualia too have CTs.
Yet again I limit myself to saying that they must be there, and I
do not allow myself to say how they are constituted. But a good
proof that there is a CT is that it can be interpreted. Can we inter-
pret qualia? We can in the sense that I can not only define red in
terms of the corresponding wavelength but also say that it is the
color of cherries, of the jackets of the Canadian Mounties, and of
many national flags. In addition, through various comparisons I
can interpret various qualities of red. Finally, experiments on cate-
gorial perception (see Petitot 1983) tell us that there are "catastro-
phe pdints" on this side of which the subjects perceive red and on
the other side of which they perceive another color—and even
though the catastrophe point varies depending on the exposure to
the stimulus, it varies in a constant fashion for all the subjects.
Sensations of sweet or bitter are private events, and yet wine ex-
perts use persuasive metaphors to discern the flavor and consis-
tency of wines, and if they were unable to recognize qualia on the
basis of a CT, they would be unable to tell a Pinot from a Tokay,
nor would they be able to identify the vintage.2 3
One of the usual proofs against the interpretability of colors is
that they cannot be interpreted for the sightless. All we need to do
is agree on what is meant by interpretation. In Peircean terms, an
interpretant is that which lets me know something more about the
object expressed by the name, but not necessarily that which lets
me know everything that other interpretants tell me. It is obvious
that someone who is blind from birth cannot have any perception
of red, a semiosic primitive that may be acquired only through per-
ceptual experience. Nonetheless let us suppose (and the experiment
is not all that far from scientific fact, see Dennett 1991, 11.4) that
the blind person has been equipped with a video camera inserted in
special eyeglasses, capable of identifying colors and communicating
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 155
them in the form of impulses to some part of the body: faced with a
traffic light, the blind person, trained to recognize different im-
pulses, would know whether it was signaling red or green. We
would have equipped him with a prosthesis capable of supplying
him with a datum that would allow him to make up for the miss-
ing sensation. I am not deciding whether or not he would "see"
something similar to red in his brain, but that his brain would reg-
ister an interpretation of red. In order to characterize an interpreta-
tion as such, it is unnecessary for it to appear as perfect; on the
contrary, every interpretation is always partial. To say to the blind
person that red is the color of incandescent substances is a vague in-
terpretation, but it is not less satisfactory than telling someone that
a heart attack is that thing you perhaps have when you feel sharp
pains in your chest and left arm. On becoming aware of a pain in
the chest, we have as many reasons to say Maybe this is a heart attack^
as a congenitally blind person has to say Maybe this substance is red
on becoming aware of an intense feeling of heat. The congenitally
blind person simply registers red as a "hidden quality," just as we
register something that manifests itself in the form of a symptom as
a hidden quality.2 4
3.4.5 The C T s and the image as "schema"
If we found something interesting in the Kantian notion of
schema, it was not when the schema appeared to us as something
extremely abstract such as "number," "degree," or "permanence of
the manifold," but precisely when (and it was at this point that the
first Critique was unable to provide a satisfactory answer) it had to
permit the formation of an empirical concept such as that of dog
(and mouse). We saw that it was necessary in some way to intro-
duce the instructions for producing a figure into the perceptual
process. The image of the mouse in figure 3.1 must not be seen as
the image of one particular mouse (not even if it were a photo-
graph, which could only be of one particular mouse). And in fact
when we see images of this kind in an encyclopedia, we do not
think they must supply us with visual instructions for the identifi-
156 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
cation of an animal "exactly" the same as the one shown. In point
of fact we assume them as images of the mouse in general.
How can we start off from a "picture" (ever fated to be the rep-
resentation of an individual, even were it the image of a triangle,
which can be only the image of a certain triangle and none other)
and use it as a general schema with which to identify or recognize
tokens of a type? Precisely by understanding it as a (2-D or 3-D)
schematic suggestion for the construction of similar images, despite
notable differences in the details. Precisely by understanding it as
the Kantian schema—and so there is never a (schematic) image of
the dog, but a system of instructions for the construction of the im-
age of a dog. The mouse in figure 3.1 is not the image of a certain
mouse, nor does it represent the Mouse as Such. It is like a sketch
that tells us which salient features we ought to recognize in any
thing we can define as a mouse, just as the schematic image of a
Doric column (in a manual of architectonic orders) ought to induce
us to recognize as Doric those columns that are neither Ionic nor
Corinthian, regardless of their details and dimensions.
The very fact that we are led, in terms of ordinary language, to
define as "schematic" the image in figure 3.1 tells us that the image
can be supplied as an interpretant and mentally retained as a
"model" for mice of different colors, sizes, and (were we capable of
discriminating them) individual physiognomic features. And note
well that this would happen even if the Encyclopedia contained a
photograph instead of the schematic drawing: we would start off
from it by operating in a way comparable to the process known as
solarization, which is simply a form of deprivation or diminution
of the individual features in order to arrive at a rule for the con-
struction of the image of any mouse. And the same thing would
happen if, as a result of psychological matters that have to do with
the mysteries of the black box, we were to react to the word mouse
by calling up the image of that mouse, which we have seen for the
first time. The mental representation of that individual would
serve us as a cast or model (a schema, in fact), and we would easily
be able to transform the experience of an individual mouse into a
general rule for the recognition or construction of mice.
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 157
However, we can recognize or identify not only natural or
artificial objects but also tokens of geometrical figures such as the
triangle, and above all of actions and situations (from walking to
going out to dinner). If for the type triangle one can think of proto-
types or rules for the construction and identification of the figure
(not unlike what can happen with regard to the morphological fea-
tures of a mouse or a glass), and if even notions such as room or
restaurant can presuppose a basic visual structure, on the model of
Minsky's frames, then the recognition and identification of actions
such as going out to the restaurant, arguing, and scolding, or of sit-
uations such as a pitched battle, a meeting, or a sung Mass, require
genuine "scripts" (like those proposed in Artificial Intelligence, or
representations through Cases and Actants, or more complex nar-
rative sequences, such as Greimas's schema for anger).
And that's not all. I maintain that CTs also include pairs of op-
positions: not only is it difficult to interpret husband in the absence
of the notion of wife (and we shall be talking about cognitive types
by functional genera later) but also in some way a part of our idea
of dog derives from the fact that this animal barks or snarls and
does not meow or purr (features sufficient for us to decide at night,
in the dark, which animal is scratching at the door).
In such cases we undoubtedly possess CTs that do not necessar-
ily or particularly take morphological features into consideration.
Likewise we can have CTs that take account of temporal se-
quences, or logical relations that, while they may be expressed in
diagrammatic form (which on the level of expression assumes the
form of a visual configuration), still do not regard visual experi-
ences.
If there is a "strong" element in the Peircean theory of the inter-
pretant, it is that the series of interpretations of a sign can also
assume "iconic" forms. But "iconic" does not necessarily mean "vi-
sual." Sometimes the CT includes perceptual primitives or even
qualia, which are not easy to interpret but which must be ac-
counted for: part of the CT of the skunk—even for those who
have never seen one—should include the powerful smell it can give
off, and its NC should include the instruction that the skunk is
I58 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
identifiable mainly through its smell (if there were a Kantian
schema for skunk, as Kant presupposed one for dog, it would have
the form of a flowchart whose higher nodes contain instructions to
proceed immediately to an olfactory check).
Are we sure that our CT of the mosquito is fundamentally made
up of morphological features and not (eminently) of the irritating
effects it can have on our epidermis? We know very little about the
form of the mosquito (unless we have observed one under a micro-
scope or seen one in an encyclopedia), but we perceive it first and
foremost through our hearing as a flying creature that produces a
characteristic whine as it comes closer, and so we can even recog-
nize one in the dark—indeed it is by referring to these features that
we would provide someone with instructions for the identification
of mosquitoes.
I maintain that the CT (and the NC) of the mouse also includes
"tymic" (see Greimas-Courtes 1979: 396) elements. We have al-
ready seen how it is fundamental to perceive the mouse (usually) as
a repugnant little creature. Apart from its morphological charac-
teristics, the CT of the mouse also includes a frame, a sequence of
actions: with the exception of those who have never seen mice out-
side a cage, the idea of the mouse (and the capacity to recognize a
mouse) is based on the fact that it usually appears to us as an indis-
tinct form that moves from one side of a room to the other at high
speed, emerging from one hiding place only to slip into another.
This lends particular conviction to the idea proposed by Bruner
(1986, 1990) that we use narrative schemata to organize our experi-
ence. I think that our CT (and NC) of the tree also includes the
(narrative) sequence that it grows from a seed, goes through vari-
ous phases of development, modifies itself with the changing of the
seasons, et cetera. A child soon learns that chairs are not planted
but constructed, and that a flower is not constructed but planted.
Our cognitive type of the tiger includes not only that it is a big yel-
low cat with a striped coat but also that if we were to meet one in
the jungle, it would behave in a particular fashion toward us (see in
this regard also Eco 1990, 4.3.3).
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 159
With regard to expressions such as yesterday and tomorrow, can
we really say we have only NCs that may be expressed proposition-
ally and not also a sort of diagram with vectorial pointers, the result
being that (even if the disposition varies according to the culture) in
one case we configure a sort of mental image of "pointing back-
ward" and in the other of "pointing forward"?
I shall freely adapt a fine mental experiment found in Bickerton
(1981). Let us suppose that I have been interacting for a year with a
very, very primitive tribe, whose language I understand only very
poorly (names of objects and elementary actions, verbs in the infini-
tive, proper nouns without pronouns, etc.). I accompany Og and
Ug on a hunt: they have just wounded a bear, which, bleeding, has
taken shelter in its cave. Ug wants to follow the animal into its lair
to finish it off. But I remember that a few months before, Ig had in-
jured a bear before following it boldly into its lair, where the ani-
mal demonstrated that it was still strong enough to devour him. I
should like to remind Ug of that precedent, but to do so I have to
be able to say that I recall a past event, and I do not know how to
express either verb tenses or doxastic operators such as / remember
that. And so I restrict myself to saying Umberto see bear. Ug and Og
obviously believe that I have spotted another bear, and they are
frightened. I try to reassure them: Bear not here. But the pair only
draw the conclusion that I make jokes in the worst possible taste at
the worst possible time. I persist: Bear kjH Ig- But the others reply:
A^, Igdead! In short, I should have to desist, and Ug would be lost.
So I fall back on nonlinguistic interpretants. On saying Ig and bear,
I use a finger to strike my head, or my heart, or my belly (according
to where I presume they locate the memory). Then I draw two fig-
ures on the ground, and I designate them Ig and bear. Behind Ig's
back I draw images of lunar phases, hoping that they understand
the meaning of "many moons ago," and in the end I once more
draw the bear that killed Ig. If I try this, it is because I presume
that my interlocutors have notions of recalling, and above all a few
CTs (that may be interpreted not propositionally but diagram-
matically) for activities of "protensity" toward temporal points
IOO / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
different from the present. That is to say, I start from the principle
that, if I am capable of understanding a sentence in which I am told
that something happened yesterday or will happen tomorrow, I
should have a CT for these temporal entities. In my experiment I
would try to interpret visually (vectorially) my C T , and my interpre-
tation might prove incomprehensible to the natives. But the diffi-
culty of the operation does not exclude its being postulated as
possible in some way.
We certainly possess cognitive types of sound sequences, if we
can usually distinguish the timbre and the rhythm of the telephone
bell from those of the doorbell, military calls such as taps and
reveille, and often the melodies of two songs we know well.
If we admit that semiosic primitives exist, they are certainly ele-
mentary experiences such as walking, jumping, or running. When
we skip, we are aware (or could be aware, if we pay attention to
what we are doing) whether we use the right foot twice and the left
foot twice or always the same foot. Yet it so happens that these last
two operations have two distinct terms in English but not in Ital-
ian. This table by Nida (1975: 75), figure 3 . 2 , distinguishes between
the content of some English terms for motor activities.
run walk hop skip jump dance crawl
One or
another
limb
always
in contact
vs. no
limb at
times in
contact
- + - - - +/- +
Order of
contact
1,2,1,2 1,2,1,2 1,1,1,1 1,1,2,2 not
relevant
variable
but
rhythmic
1,2,3,4
Number
of limbs
2 2 i 2 2 2 4
Figure 3.2
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 161
Anyone who wants to translate a text describing these operations
from English to Italian must interpret the terms according to this
table, which—even though it uses linguistic terms—provides in-
structions of a motor type (one might very well think of its transla-
tion into film footage, or into a series of diagrams that use signs
improperly called "iconic").2 6
3.4.6 "Affordances"
The CT ought to include those conditions for perception that
Gibson calls "affordances" (and Prieto would have called perti-
nency)-}' the various tokens of the type "chair" are recognized be-
cause we are dealing with objects that make it possible for one to sit
down, while tokens of the type "bottle" are recognized because
they are objects that allow us to hold and pour liquid substances. It
is instinctive for us to recognize a tree trunk as a possible seat and
not a column (unless someone is a stylite), due to the length of our
legs and the fact that we find it comfortable to sit with our feet
resting on the ground. On the other hand, in order to categorize
a knife, fork, and spoon among Cutlery, or a chair and a cup-
board among Furniture, we must leave aside this morphological
pertinency and fall back on more generic functions, such as
the manipulation of food and the preparation of a habitable en-
vironment.
Our capacity to recognize affordances is registered, so to speak,
in linguistic usage itself. Violi (1991: 73) wonders why, when faced
with a table with a vase standing on it, we are led to interpret ver-
bally what we see as The vase is on the table and not The table is un-
der the vase. She suggests that "the selection of linguistic expressions
seems regulated by complex configurations of the intentional rela-
tions between the subject that moves in space and the objects that
surround it." But this is equivalent to saying that our CT of the
common vase also includes the sequence of actions that it permits,
and so a vase is something easily movable that usually stands on
something. On the other hand, our CT of the table includes not
only its morphological features but also the notion (I would say,
l 6 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
nuclear) that it is used for putting something on (and never for be-
ing inserted under something).2 8
But Arnheim ( 1 9 6 9 : 1 3 9 ) suggests that language can block our
recognition of pertinency. Quoting a remark made by Braque, he
admits that a coffee spoon acquires perceptual saliency that differs
according to whether it is set alongside a coffee cup or inserted be-
tween shoe and heel like a shoe horn. But often it is the name with
which we indicate the object that highlights one pertinency at the
expense of others.
In conclusion, we still have imprecise ideas about the extremely
various ways in which our CTs are organized—and how they ex-
press themselves in NC. I would tend to follow Johnson-Laird's
( 1 9 8 3 : 7) proposal, whereby from time to time different types of
representation gradually offer themselves as options for the codifi-
cation of different types of information, and in general we move
from real images to mental "models" (like Marr's 3-D representa-
tion) and real propositions.2 9
Rather than talk of "double coding,"
as is usual in these cases, I think we ought to talk of multiple coding,
of our capacity to maneuver the same CT on different occasions by
accentuating either the iconic component, or the propositional one,
or the narrative one regarding our capacity to activate—within the
ambit of a complex situation—more complex nuclear contents and
information.3 0
All this induces us to review, I should like to say with
indulgence, those fairly rigidified semantic representations (com-
positional analysis models, case grammar, contextual and circum-
stantial selections; see A Theory of Semiotics 2 . 1 0 - 2 . 1 2 ) that seem to
be challenged by a reconsideration of the complex way (certainly
not linear, but like a network) in which our cognitive types are or-
ganized and of how we interpret them through nuclear content.
These skeletal models are naturally stenographic forms that con-
sider our NCs from a certain standpoint, according to what we
wish to emphasize within the framework of a set theoretical dis-
course, or according to how we wish to indicate the ways followed
in order to have a certain contextual disambiguation of the terms.
With such models we interpret the quantity of NC we need as the
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 163
need arises. They are metalinguistic (or metasemiotic) interpreta-
tions of interpretations rooted in perceptual experience.
3 . 5 EMPIRICAL CASES AND CULTURAL CASES
Until now I have dealt with CTs that concern "natural kinds" such
as mice, cats, and trees. But we have said that there are certainly
CTs for actions such as walking, climbing, and skipping. The ex-
pression "natural kinds" is insufficient: CTs for artificial kinds,
such as chair, boat, or house, obviously exist. Let us say, then, that I
have considered CTs for all the objects or events we can know
through perceptual experience. I cannot manage to identify a suit-
able term for indicating various objects of perceptual experience,
and I choose the expression "empirical cases" (on the model of the
Kantian empirical concepts): an empirical case would be the fact
that I perceive or recognize a cat, a chair, someone sleeping or
walking, and even that a certain place is a church and not a railway
station.
It is a different matter with "cultural cases," among which I
would put a disparate series of experiences with regard to which
we can certainly discuss whether it happens that what I name in a
particular way is named correctly and whether I recognize some-
thing that others are also supposed to recognize. Nevertheless the
definition of these "cases," just as the instructions for their recogni-
tion, depend on a system of cultural assumptions. Among the
cultural cases, I would put the functional genera (such as cousin,
president, archbishop); a series of abstract concepts (such as the
square root), which can also objectively "exist" on some Platonic
Third World but which are definitely not objects of immediate ex-
perience); events, actions, relationships (such as contract, swindling,
emphyteusis, or friendship). What is common to all these cases is
that, if they are to be recognized as cultural, they require a refer-
ence to a framework of cultural rules.
This distinction could correspond to the one Quine made be-
tween those occasion sentences that are at the same time observation
sentences and those that are not. One might agree with him. Except
164 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
that, as we shall see, This is a bachelor is not completely nonobserva-
tional.
In the case of the bachelor, Lakoff (1987) would talk of Idealized
Cognitive Models (ICM): it is hard to say when the term should be
applied, but ideally it has a sense. Lakoff is thinking of the last
phase of the debate on bachelors, which boasts a long history fea-
turing an admixture of highly sensible observations and mere wit-
ticisms.3 1
It has been said that it is questionable whether the
definition "unmarried adult male" can really circumscribe bache-
lors, because "unmarried adult males" includes Catholic priests,
homosexuals, eunuchs, and even Tarzan (at least in the novel
where he does not meet Jane), with the result that we cannot de-
fine them as bachelors unless our intentions are humorous or
metaphorical. The reply has been made, with a good deal of com-
mon sense, that bachelors are definable not only as unmarried adult
males but also as adult males who have chosen not to marry (for a
period marked by indefinite temporal limits) even though they are
physically or socially able to do so; which therefore does not apply to
the eunuch (unmatched as a result of a life sentence), to Tarzan
(quite unable to find a partner, within the time limits), to the priest
(celibate by obligation), and to the homosexual (unmarried out of a
natural impulse toward other forms of union). In a situation where
homosexuals can legally marry persons of the same sex, it would be
possible to distinguish homosexual bachelors, who do not live in
couples, from married homosexuals. It is evident that, even once
these specifications have been made, to be able to talk about bache-
lors we need other negotiations bound up with the circumstances.
For example, a homosexual could marry a person of the opposite
sex for social convenience (e.g., if he or she were heir to a throne)
without ceasing to be a homosexual for all that, while a priest could
not marry a person of the opposite sex without rejoining the ranks
of the laity and ceasing to be a priest; and so—if we cared to—we
could say that a homosexual bachelor is more of a bachelor than a
priest. But since a priest who has not been defrocked but has been
suspended a divinis may get married at a registry office in Reno, is a
priest who has been suspended a divinis and does not get married
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 165
more of a bachelor than a homosexual who does not cohabit with
his or her partner of the opposite sex? As we can see, the negotia-
tions can continue indefinitely, and that is why today, customs hav-
ing changed, the word bachelor is almost never used anymore (also,
it has particular connotations of the free and easy life and evokes
the complementary notion, equally in desuetude, of the unmarried
lady or, even, the "spinster"). And so bachelors are now a part of
the hazy archipelago of "singles," which includes unmarried adults
of both sexes, homosexuals or heterosexuals, divorcees, widowers,
spouses on the rocks, and spouses still madly in love with their
partner but obliged to work in New York while their partner has
found a job in California. Lakoff's notion of ICM is still valid in
the sense that, while an idealized definition of bachelor does not al-
ways allow us to say whether someone is a bachelor, it certainly
does allow us to say that he is not a bachelor if he is the happily
married (and cohabiting) father of five children.3 2
Nevertheless the fact that notions of this kind require negotia-
tion on the basis of conventions and behavior bound up with cul-
tures does not allow us to exclude that the occasion sentences they
permit have no observational basis.
Consider the difference between killing and murdering. Some-
one's killing another is directly perceivable: in some way we have a
CT of killing, in the form of a fairly elementary scenario; we rec-
ognize we are faced with a killing when someone strikes another
living being and thereby causes its death. I think the experience of
killing is common to different cultures. It's another case with mur-
der: a killing can be defined as homicide in self-defense or culpable
or without malice aforethought, as ritual sacrifice, as an act of war
recognized by international convention, or finally as murder, de-
pending entirely upon the laws and customs of a given culture.
What is puzzling about this difference between empirical cases
and cultural cases is that the first are without a doubt based on the
testimony of the senses, but it cannot be said that experiential data
are devoid of value in the second. Just for a start, an act cannot be
recognized as murder unless there is experience (direct or indirect)
of the fact that it was a killing.
166 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Granted therefore that there is a difference between empirical
and cultural cases and seeing that there are CTs for empirical cases,
do we also have CTs for cultural cases?
One could avoid this perplexing question by saying that CTs
concern the objects of perceptual experience and that's all. For
other concepts, ones expressed by linguistic terms, there are no
CTs, only NCs, which would be the same as saying that some
things are known to us on the basis of perceptual experience while
others we know only through definitions, duly contracted within
the ambit of a culture. Which brings us back to Russell's distinction
between object-words and dictionary words (see Russell 1940), ex-
cept for our broadening of the concept of object-word to include
natural genera and qualia as well as experiences of other kinds.
But, seeing that the CT has been defined as "something in the
head," which allows us to recognize something and name it as
such, even though it has not yet been publicly interpreted in terms
of NC, can we perhaps say that when we pronounce the word
cousin or president, we have nothing in our heads, and certainly not
anything remotely similar to the Kantian schema? Note that the
question remains even if it is admitted that we do not think in im-
ages but only by processing abstract symbols. In this second case,
the question ought simply to be reformulated as follows: Is it pos-
sible when we state that something is a cat, that we process some-
thing "in the head," while when we state that X is Y's cousin, we
process nothing?
When I understand the meaning of cousin and president, I call up
in some way a kinship or an organizational schema, a Peircean
graph. What happens when I understand that, in correspondence
with the Italian term nipote, there are two different positions in the
kinship schema, expressed in English by nephew and grandson? It is
true that I can express the difference verbally too (which brings us
to the NC), and so there is a nipote who is the child of an uncle and
a nipote who is the child of a child. But the question—which I do
not feel like answering, owing to my intention not to stick my
nose into the black box—is whether this verbally expressed NC is
all I know about the difference, or whether it constitutes the ver-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 167
bal interpretation of a difference grasped and understood via a
diagram.
A supporter of the eminently visual nature of thought, such as
Arnheim, seems to surrender before an example made by Buhler:
asked to respond to the question "Should it be lawful or not to
marry the sister of one's own widow?" the subjects asserted they
had come to understand that the statement was senseless without
the help of images (1969, 6). Of course, and especially in the case of
a person with a well-trained mind, the answer to the question can
be arrived at propositionally. But on repeating the experiment, I
also found someone who came to recognize the contradictory na-
ture of the question by imagining a widow weeping, with her sister
beside her, over the grave of her own husband (and intuitive evi-
dence suggests that a husband in the grave is unlikely to get mar-
ried).
The same holds good for the Italian word presidente, and even
more so when I have to decide whether the apparent synonymy (in
English) is a good translation. As a matter of fact, not only is an
American president unlike (in constitutional terms) an Italian pres-
ident (their relations of power are expressed by two different orga-
nization charts), but also in the world of business what Italians
call the Presidente of a company is the equivalent of the Chair-
man of the Board in UK English, while the role of President of an
American company is very like that of the Direttore Generate (Man-
aging Director) in an Italian one. In this case too the difference be-
comes evident on considering the position of the President in a
company organization chart. Naturally the organization chart can
be interpreted verbally, by saying that the president is the man or
woman who gives orders to X or Y but not to K (who gives orders
to him or her), but this would be the same as saying that expres-
sions such as above or below may be interpreted only verbally (in
terms of an NC), while we know very well that we translate them
mentally in terms of CTs. And the fact that someone is the boss of a
group of gangsters that we see in action can be inferred through
perceptual experience. Does this mean, therefore, that there is a CT
for boss while there is none for president?
l68 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Many people would be incapable of interpreting in words or
with other signs the NC of the word murder, and yet on seeing
someone cracking an old lady's skull and then snatching her hand-
bag before fleeing, they would realize they were witnessing a mur-
der. Is there not a CT (a frame, or narrative sequence) for murder,
therefore?
It would be puzzling to say that in order to recognize a triangle
or a hypotenuse, or the fact that there are two onlookers rather
than three, things are based on perceptual experience (and there-
fore there is a CT for these empirical cases), while it is not on the
basis of a CT that we recognize 5,677 to be an odd number. Identi-
fying an odd number, even a very large one, depends on a rule, and
this rule is certainly an instructional schema. If there is a system of
instructions for recognizing a dog, why shouldn't there be one for
recognizing that 5,677 is an odd number?
But if there is a system of instructions for recognizing 5,677 as an
odd number, why shouldn't there be a system of instructions for
recognizing whether a certain agreement is a contract? Is there a
CT for contracts?
It is agreed that the instructions for recognizing an odd number
are of a different kind to those we have introjected in order to
recognize a dog. But in the discourse on schematism in 2.5 we
acknowledged that to characterize the schema as a system of
instructions it is not indispensable for the instructions to be mor-
phological in nature. We have already forsaken the idea of under-
standing CTs exclusively as visual images, and we have decided
that they can also correspond to scripts or flowcharts for the recog-
nition of a sequence of actions.
The quality of being a bachelor does not seem recognizable on
the basis of experience. But does that of soccer referee? To be a ref-
eree is certainly not to belong to a natural kind: a camel is always a
camel, but a referee is a referee only in certain moments or periods
of his life. The functions of the referee are indeed expressed by
verbal interpretations. But let us suppose we have been suddenly-
transported to the stands of a football stadium while a football
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 169
match is in progress, even though no one, players included, is wear-
ing a shirt that permits perceptual recognition. After a little we
would be able to say, by inferring from each person's behavior,
which of the twenty-three people is the referee, just as we are able
to tell someone who is jumping from someone who is running.
Although a vast competence is required to distinguish a referee
from a goalkeeper (no vaster, however, than that required to tell a
platypus from an echidna), we introject instructions for recogniz-
ing a referee in action. Some could be morphological (the referee
wears an outfit of a certain type—and for the same reasons we can
recognize who the bishop is in a religious ceremony), but they are
not strictly necessary. The bishop in an ordination ceremony and
the referee (even if in plain clothes) in a football match are recog-
nizable by what they do, not by their appearance. And this recogni-
tion is also based on perceptual experiences.
Nevertheless perceptual experience must be oriented by a set of
cultural instructions: those who do not know what a soccer match
is see only a gentleman who, instead of kicking a ball like the other
twenty-two gentlemen, runs about among them performing in-
comprehensible actions. But the person who saw a platypus for the
first time saw something incomprehensible too: just as someone
who knows nothing about soccer sees men on a field and is not
quite sure what they are doing, or at least why they are doing it and
in accordance with what rules, this person saw an animal equipped
with some fairly original properties without understanding what it
was or whether it breathed under the water or out of it. And just as
little by little he began to recognize other tokens of the platypus,
even without being able to classify it in a reasonable manner, we
can perhaps say that the soccer ignoramus, after having been ex-
posed to the experience of several games, manages to infer that it is
a matter of an activity probably having to do with play, in which
the players try to propel a ball into a net, while the twenty-third
gentleman intervenes occasionally to interrupt or regulate their ac-
tivity. And so, if we admit right from the start that the discoverer
of the platypus had elaborated a CT of the still provisionally named
I70 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
animal, why can't the soccer ignoramus produce a CT (God only
knows what kind, but probably a functional one) to recognize
tokens of the referee?
It seems therefore that the referee is perceptually more recogniz-
able than a cousin or a bachelor, and this is empirically true. But
even in the case of natural kinds, we recognize some on a morpho-
logical basis (cat and platypus), others on the basis of definitions
and a list of their possible behavior patterns, and we need only
think of certain chemical elements or certain minerals of which we
have never had perceptual experience. Yet no one is saying that we
have a CT for cat but not for uranium: as Marconi (1997) suggests,
a simple competence regarding the definition of uranium would al-
low us to recognize perceptually a sample of uranium if we had to
choose between it, a butterfly, and an apple. It is not enough to say
that we recognize as uranium something that has the evident
property of not being a butterfly or an apple: as a matter of fact
the simple information that uranium appears in mineral form
disposes us to recognize one thing rather than another.
I do not think that the difference between the competence we
have of a cat is different from the one we have of a bachelor, on the
basis of the difference that according to Greimas-Courtes (1979:
332) lies between figurative semes (exteroceptive, which refer to the
sensible qualities of the world) and abstract semes (interoceptive, di-
mensions of content that serve to categorize the world). The ab-
stract semes are of the type "object vs. process," not "bachelor vs.
married." Where do the bachelors stand according to Greimas?
His abstract semes are extremely general categories, and between
them and the figurative semes we would still need that mediation
that Kant entrusted to the schemata, intermediaries between the
abstraction of the categorial apparatus and the concreteness of the
manifold of the intuition.
Nor do I think that Marconi's (1997) distinction between referen-
tial competence and inferential competence stands up, or not in this
case at least. Ideally speaking, someone who knows what a pan-
golin is has referential competence regarding it (he possesses the in-
structions with which to identify a token of it), while someone who
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 171
knows what a bachelor is has only inferential competence (he
knows that bachelors are unmarried adult males). But let us sup-
pose we provide a computer with the necessary instructions for an
understanding of English: its competence regarding the world pan-
golin would be no different from its competence regarding the
word bachelor, and in both cases it would be prepared to make in-
ferences of the type "If pangolin, then animal" and "If bachelor,
then unmarried." I could have only inferential and not referential
competence of the pangolin, to the point that if one were to appear
at my desk while I was writing, I would not know what it was. But
it might be objected that, in ideal conditions, I could obtain all the
instructions necessary for recognizing a pangolin. Would I have to
exclude that, in ideal conditions, I cannot be supplied with all the
instructions for recognizing a bachelor? Let us imagine I am a de-
tective, and that I am following day by day, hour by hour, the be-
havior of an individual. I note that in the evenings he goes back to
the apartment where he lives alone, and that he has only transitory
contact with members of the opposite sex, changing his partner
every day. He could certainly be a false bachelor, a husband who
lives separated from his wife, or a compulsive adulterer. But in the
same way, could I not fail to recognize a hyperrealistic plastic
model of a pangolin or a pangolin-robot, which behaves in every
way like a pangolin, rolling itself up into a ball when threatened,
or whose scales and sticky tongue are accessible to the sight and
touch ?
Counterobjection: a pangolin is such by divine (or natural) de-
cree, while a bachelor is such by social decree or linguistic conven-
tion. Agreed, it would be sufficient to consider a society that does
not recognize the institution of marriage, so that those whom we
recognize as bachelors would no longer be so. But what is in ques-
tion here is not that there is a difference between natural kinds,
functional kinds, and goodness knows how many other types of ob-
jects, or that there is a difference between empirical and cultural
cases (between cat and emphyteusis). The question is whether we
can talk about CTs as systems of instructions that allow us to rec-
ognize tokens for cultural kinds too.
172 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
3.5.1 The story of the Archangel Gabriel
The following story is inspired by the canonical Gospels, but it
strays from them in some aspects. Let us say that it is inspired by an
apocryphal gospel that, as it is apocryphal, I might have written
myself.
The Lord decides to get the business of the Incarnation under
way. He has prepared Mary for immaculate conception since her
birth, and she is the only human being suited to this purpose. In ad-
dition, let us suppose that He has already seen to or is about to see
to the miracle of virginal conception. But He must inform Mary of
the event, and Joseph of the task that awaits him. He therefore calls
for the Archangel Gabriel and gives him his orders, which we
might sum up as follows: "You must descend to the Earth, to
Nazareth, find a young girl called Mary, the daughter of Anna and
Joachim, and tell her this and that. Then you must identify a virtu-
ous and chaste man, called Joseph, of the line of David, and you
will tell him what he must do."
All very simple, if an angel were a human being. But angels do
not speak, because they understand one another in an ineffable
fashion, and what they know they see in the beatific vision. Yet in
this vision they do not learn all that God knows, otherwise they
would be God; they learn only what God allows them to know, ac-
cording to their rank in the Heavenly Host. Therefore the Lord
must make Gabriel able to carry out his mission by transmitting
him certain competences: first of all, the entirely human capacity to
perceive and recognize objects, then a knowledge of Hebrew, as
well as other cultural notions, without which, as we shall see, the
mission could not come to a happy conclusion.
Gabriel descends to Nazareth. Identifying Mary is not hard. He
asks around for Joachim's house, enters a fine and gracious colon-
nade, sees what is beyond doubt a young woman, calls her by name
to be sure he is not making a mistake (she reacts by gazing at him
in trepidation), and as far as the Annunciation is concerned, that's
that.
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 1 7 3
The serious problems begin now. How to identify Joseph? It's a
matter of identifying a member of the male sex, and Gabriel is per-
fectly able to discern, from dress and facial features, a male from a
female. But the rest? After his successful strategy with Mary, he be-
gins calling for Joseph loudly all around the village, but no good
comes of it, because many men come running at his call, and he re-
alizes that names may well be rigid designators in certain circum-
stances (he has read a little modal logic in the Divine Mind), but
they are far less so in social life, where Josephs are more abundant
than strictly necessary.
Naturally Gabriel knows that Joseph must be a virtuous man,
and it is possible that he has received some typological instructions
about how to recognize the virtuous: by the serenity of their fea-
tures, by their generous behavior toward the poor and infirm, and
by the pious gestures they make in the Temple. But there is more
than one righteous adult male in Nazareth.
From among these virtuous men Gabriel must choose a bache-
lor, and, having received instructions about the Jewish language
and the society of the period, he knows that his candidate must be
an adult male and unmarried, even though the man could marry if
he wished. And so Gabriel does not think of going to look for a ho-
mosexual, a eunuch, or a priest of some religion that requires eccle-
siastical celibacy.
All he needs do is pay a visit to the Nazareth registry office. But,
alas, as we all know, Caesar Augustus was to announce the famous
census only nine months afterward, and at the time there were no
public records, or if there were, they were in unspeakable disorder.
To establish whether the various Josephs he has spotted are bache-
lors or not, Gabriel can infer their condition only from their behav-
ior. The Joseph who lives alone in the back of his carpenter's shop
could be a bachelor (but he could also be a widower).
In the end, Gabriel remembers that Joseph is of the line of
David; he supposes that in the Temple there will be old registers;
he subpoenas them, and then, by comparing them with oral testi-
mony, he manages to identify the Joseph he is looking for. End of
174 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Gabriel's mission. Gabriel reascends to heaven to receive the warm
congratulations of his fellow angels for a mission well and truly ac-
complished. With them Gabriel would be able to interpret and
therefore to describe step by step the procedures he followed to as-
certain that Joseph was a bachelor; then he would supply his fellow
angels with the NC of the expression bachelor, which certainly in-
cludes the cultural rule that says "an adult male who is unmarried
even though he could be otherwise," but also includes a mixture of
images, scripts that concern typical behavior, and procedures for
the collection of data.3 3
But now let us make our story more complicated. Lucifer, by na-
ture rebellious when it comes to divine decrees, wants to try to
prevent the Incarnation. He cannot oppose the miracle of virgin
conception, but he can act on events—as he will indeed do later, by
instigating Herod to commit the massacre of the innocents. And
therefore Lucifer tries to make the encounter between Mary and
Joseph fail in such a way that, if the birth must occur, it will seem
illegitimate in the eyes of all Palestine. So he orders Belphagor to
precede Gabriel to Nazareth and to eliminate Joseph with a
dagger.
Fortunately the Prince of Darkness teaches us his tricks but not
how to hide them. He forgets that Belphagor—who for millennia
has been assigned to the savage peoples of Terra Incognita—
isused to the customs of those peoples, among whom virtue is
expressed through acts of warlike ferocity and is ostentated
(or vaunted) by tattoos and scars that render the face repugnant.
And so our poor devil tries to identify the virtuous Joseph and
sets his eye, by an understandable error, on the father of the fu-
ture Barabbas. He does not know what a bachelor is, because
he comes from a hirsute tribe where by decree lads of tender
years must couple with lascivious old men, only to move on, imme-
diately after initiation, to an unbridled but legitimate polygamy.
And Belphagor will have trouble identifying Mary, since he does
not know what it means for a young girl to be nubile and chaste;
in the place whence he comes women are given, while still chil-
dren, to the men of another clan, and they procreate by the time
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 1 7 5
they are twelve. Nor does he know what it means for a bachelor
or a nubile girl to live alone or with their parents, because in his
neck of the woods everybody lives in large huts that house entire
families—and the only ones who live alone are those the gods
have made mad. As the society from which Belphagor comes from
is founded on the avuncular principle, the archdevil does not
know what it means to be of the line of David. As a result,
Belphagor does not manage to identify Joseph and Mary, and his
mission fails.
It fails because Belphagor did not know some things that
Gabriel knew. But he was not wholly ignorant. Like Gabriel, Bel-
phagor could tell a male from a female, night from day, the habitat
that was little Nazareth from that of great Jerusalem. If he had
passed by Joseph's workshop, he would have seen that Joseph bus-
ied himself planing wood rather than pouring olives into a press; if
he had met Mary, he would surely have said to himself that this
was a young woman. In short Belphagor and Gabriel would have
shared cognitive types that referred to empirical cases but not cog-
nitive types dependent on the Palestinian cultural system of the
first century (just) B.C.
In the light of this story, it would be easy to conclude that
(i) there are empirical cases that we know and recognize through
perceptual experience; (ii) it can happen that, for objects never be-
fore perceived directly, we first receive an NC by interpretation,
and it is only on the basis of this that we produce a CT, even
though a tentative one; (iii) for empirical cases therefore we go
from the CT, founded on experience, to the NC, while for cultural
cases the reverse occurs.
But things are not that easy. We have seen that to discriminate
between to hop and to skip we must consider data proceeding from
perceptual experience but also need information that I would call
"choreographic," without which it is impossible to count the or-
der in which the limbs contact the ground (and it would be impos-
sible to recognize that a certain convulsive movement executed
by a dancer is a perfect entrechat). Conversely, being a professor is
certainly a cultural case, but anyone who enters a (traditional)
I76 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
classroom can immediately tell the teacher from the students, be-
cause of their reciprocal spatial positions—and better than an ordi-
nary person, when asked, can distinguish between a weasel and a
stoat or even between a frog and a toad. We are able to understand
the different cognitive operations that distinguish the recognition
of a cat from the recognition of a square root, but between these
two extremes there stand a variety of "objects" whose cognitive sta-
tus is fairly unstable.
By way of a conclusion, my guess is that we must recognize the
existence of CTs for cultural cases too, and therefore when neces-
sary I shall take them into consideration, without putting them in
question and without even trying to create an exhaustive typology
of them. In reality, in this chapter, I am concerned with cognitive
types for empirical cases, and I shall continue to deal with them di-
rectly.
Naturally this decision does not eliminate another problem: that
is, whether there are observation sentences independent of a "cor-
porate" system of assumptions, or whether the difference between
a male and a female is not in some way possible only within a sys-
tem of "warranted assertions." But I shall be dealing with this in
section 4.
3.5.2 CT and NC as zones of common competence
I certainly have some notions about a mouse, and I am able to rec-
ognize a mouse in the little animal that suddenly flashes across the
floor of my house in the country. A zoologist knows many things
about the mouse that I don't, perhaps more than those things re-
corded in the Encyclopedia Britannica. But if the zoologist is with
me in the lounge of that country house, and if I draw his attention
to what I am seeing, under normal conditions he ought to agree
with me that there is a mouse in the corner over there.
It is as if, given the system of notions that I have about the mouse
(MC^ which probably also includes personal interpretations due to
previous experiences, or many notions about mice in literature and
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 1 7 7
the arts, which are not part of the zoologist's competence) and
given the system of notions, or MC2 , of the zoologist, we both agree
on an area of knowledge that we have in common (fig. 3.3).
Figure 3.3
This area of knowledge coincides with the CT and NC shared
by the zoologist and me; it allows both of us to recognize a mouse
and to make some commonsensical observations about mice,
probably to distinguish one from a sewer rat (even though this is a
controversial point), and to react with some common behavior pat-
terns.
The fact that the zoologist reacted not only with the verbal
expression There's a mouse! but also with dynamic interpretants
that I could foresee, and the fact that, were he asked to draw what
he saw, he could supply something very similar to figure 3.1, or
that he can always explain what mice are in words to a child by us-
ing a series of descriptions not dissimilar to those proposed
by Wierzbicka—all this tells me that, somewhere, the zoologist
must have a notion not unlike my own. Proof of this lies in the
fact that both of us, were we to construct a mousetrap, would
build it more or less the same size, and both of us would study
the distance between the bars so that a standard-format mouse
would not be able to escape, and both of us would use cheese
as bait rather than salad or chewing gum. Neither of us would
construct a cage for grasshoppers or an immense cage with
I78 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
steel bars like the one used to hold Lecter in The Silence of the
Lambs.
The moment the zoologist and I agree to recognize a mouse, we
have both ascribed the token supplied to us by the stimulating field
to the same CT that the zoologist can also interpret in terms of NC.
Must this NC be identified with what is habitually called the "lit-
eral meaning" of an expression? If the literal meaning is that found
in the dictionary, then certainly not, because we have seen that the
CT of the mouse also ought to include tymic "connotations,"
frames, and so on. If, on the other hand, literal meaning is to be un-
derstood as what most people are induced to associate with the
word mouse under ordinary circumstances, i.e., when there is no
need to suspect metaphorical use or explicit affective accentuations
(such as the diminutive mousie, or when we talk of the mouse of a
computer), then we can answer in the affirmative. Except that this
literal meaning is also made of information that is usually recog-
nized as "encyclopedic" and involves experience of the world.
This bears out yet again that the canonical opposition between
Dictionary and Encyclopedia is perhaps useful for certain theoreti-
cal ends but does not refer in the slightest to the way in which we
perceive and name things.
Up to now I have said that the zoologist and I "possess" a zone of
common competence, and I have identified this zone with the CT
and NC that is elaborated from it. The doubt might arise, since
both the zoologist and I share the same CT, that it is given to us. A
legitimate suspicion, given that it seems to spring from perceptual
experiences, both my own (that I have already seen and can recog-
nize mice) and those of the people who transmitted them to me
(when they taught me to recognize mice).
But if this zone is given to us, we automatically wonder if we are
dealing with an entity deposited somewhere or other, like the
species or essences or ideas of days gone by. If this were the case, it
would be the same for everybody (and at bottom the problem fac-
ing Kant was how to construct a schematic procedure that, in the
third Critique at least, would become a conjectural labor that was
the same for everybody). Instead, we have seen how this zone is
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 179
bound up with the subject's disposition, experiences, and knowl-
edge, so much so that I have expressed doubts as to whether it in-
cludes the notion that mice are different from rats. This common
competence is continuously negotiated or contracted (the zoologist
agrees to ignore something he knows about the mouse, to accept
only what I know about it, or he contributes to the enrichment of
my CT of the mouse by making me note something that had es-
caped me). It can be negotiated, because the cognitive type is not an
entity (even though it seems to carry out the function usually as-
signed to concepts): it is a procedure—as the Kantian schema is a
procedure.
3.6 FROM TYPE TO TOKEN OR VICE VERSA?
When we recognize or identify something as a mouse, a token is
ascribed to a type. In the process, we pass from the particular to the
general. Only under these conditions can I use language and talk
about a mouse. It has been seen that in the language of modern
cognitive psychology this procedure is indicated (in a historically
debatable way) as a phenomenon of categorization, and I have
resigned myself pro bono communicationis to go along with this
usage.
Nevertheless when the zoologist and I agree that we have seen a
mouse, we are referring, verbally too, to that mouse. While in order
to understand that particular token, I have had to bind it to the
general, now I will once more bind the general to the particular. As
Neisser (1976: 65) observed, discussing this oscillation from a psy-
chological standpoint, on the one hand I generalize the object and
on the other I particularize the schema?*
I do not know if it is a source of comfort or despair that, by so
saying, he is merely retabling a debate that began some time ago.
Thomas Aquinas would have said that on seeing a mouse one
grasps, in the phantasma offered by the sensation, a quidditas, and
therefore not "that mouse" but "the mouse as such" (naturally it
would be necessary to recognize, as he did, that the sensation im-
mediately offers us something already organized, as if a retinal im-
l8o / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
age offered us a fully denned object that naturally, spontaneously,
referred to the corresponding mouse, without any interpretative
mediation). But Aquinas was aware that by so doing we do not ex-
plain why we can still go on talking about that mouse, the one we
are seeing. And so he came up with the reflexio ad phantasmata, not
to the single mouse, mind you, but to its image. An unsatisfactory
solution, all things considered, especially for a realist. Duns Scotus's
attempt (first the haecceitates—but in that case we have to decide
how to form the universal concept) to obviate this problem (catch-
ing the single mouse) does not seem definitively persuasive, nor
does that proposed by Ockham (first the single individual, and the
concept as pure sign—which is a way of saying that CTs are drawn
from the individual, without explaining how to solve the universal-
particular dialectic when encountering other individuals that may
be signified with the same concept).
Basically these were all ways of solving the problem of the black
box. To keep out of it, we must focus on only one fact: that some-
thing happens. In talking of the mouse, we generalize it, but after
having identified the token as a token of a type, we dwell once
more on the token: otherwise we could not say, for example, that
that mouse has lost a bit of its tail, while neither the mouse as such
nor the CT of the mouse has a cropped tail.
This brings us back precisely to the Kantian problem of the
schema: if the general is too general, perhaps we might manage to
compare it to the manifold of experience (which deep down must
be that mouse as Maus an sich), but it would be difficult to return
from the general to the individual manifold. As a procedure for
imagining the mouse, the schema mediates, and therefore there
must be some correspondence, not of a straight one-to-one sort but
at least of a many-to-very-many sort between the features of the
type and those that can be found in the token. This means to say
that the relation between type and token should not be that which
exists between the concept of a geographical map and any geo-
graphical map but that which exists between a particular geo-
graphical map and the territory it is intended to represent. Peirce
would have said that in the moment of Thirdness everything is
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 1 8 1
generalized, but there is no Thirdness that is not impregnated with
that hie et nunc that arises in Firstness and Secondness.
Throughout the entire history of philosophy it has been said that
the individual is omnimode determinatus, determined in all respects,
and therefore its properties are infinite. With regard to the mouse I
am now looking at, I could predicate the number of hairs, its posi-
tion with respect to Mecca, or the food it ate yesterday. If we always
knew only individuals, then every general proposition would de-
rive from an effective knowledge of all individuals in all respects.
In order to say that mice are animals, I would not just have to say
that for every x, if x is a mouse, then x is an animal; rather, I have
really enumerated all the xs and have discovered that they all indis-
criminately exhibit a property that can be signified by the term an-
imal. Or I would have to say that there are some jrs, the ones I have
known, that have the property of being animal (suspending my
judgment on the xs of which I have no experience). But if there is a
function for the CT and the corresponding NC (not to mention the
MC), it is that it must also stand for the xs I have still not met.
Let us once more refuse all bets regarding what happens inside
the black box. Common sense assures us that the zoologist and I
recognize a mouse, but we know we are dealing with that mouse,
and if by chance we caught it and marked its back with a pen, on
the next occasion we would recognize that we were dealing with
the same mouse—which is moreover the way in which, by virtue of
characteristic features that are far more complex than the stroke of
a pen, we recognize the individuals we normally come into contact
with every day (and when we cannot do this, the doctor starts talk-
ing about Alzheimer's disease). We recognize individuals because
we relate them to a type, but we are able to formulate types because
we have experience of individuals. That we are capable of some re-
flexio ad phantasmata (or ad res) is a fact that we must take as food
for thought, even though, personally, I possess no instruments for
explaining it and take as my motto the phrase with which Saul
Kripke (1971) ended a conference speech on identity and necessity:
"The next topic would be my own solution of the mind-body prob-
lem, but that I do not have" (1971: 164).
182 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
But there is something we can say, and it is not only that we have
some experience of this man (token) even when we recognize him
as a man (type) but also that we assign a proper name to certain in-
dividuals and recognize them as those determined individuals and
not in general. Therefore if it is assumed that we recognize thanks
to a CT, we must admit that there is a CT for men in general (and
it might even assume the most schematic form of a 3-D model) and
there are different CTs for our fathers, wives, husbands, children,
friends, and neighbors. I shall be dealing with this in 3.7.6. but, be-
fore getting to that point, we have to venture into that swampy area
that lies between the general and the individual.
3 . 7 T H E C T ARCHIPELAGO
3.7.1 Types vs. basic categories
Certainly it is one thing to refer to a CT to recognize a token of a
natural kind, such as mouse, and another to refer to a CT to recog-
nize individually a person. Neisser (1976: 55) admits that our
schemata can operate on different levels of generality, so that we
are ready to recognize "something," "a mouse," "my brother-in-
law George," and even a sneer of disdain (not a smile) on George's
face. Of the possible existence of individual types (and the oxy-
moron already obliges us to investigate further), I shall have more
to say in 3.7.6., but for now we need to talk of the difference be-
tween generic types and specific types, in other words, of the fact
that we sometimes want to tell a tabby cat from a Siamese, some-
times a cat from a dog, or sometimes only a quadruped from a
biped. Evidently it is a matter of postulating CTs at different levels
of generality, but the problem immediately arises as to whether we
can think of a sort of "tree" for the different CTs or whether we
must consider them as an archipelago with no hierarchical order.3 5
The fact that has been and is still widely discussed is that we
show different capacities of discrimination for different natural
and artificial kinds. As for myself, I am capable of distinguishing a
hen from a turkey, a swallow from an eagle, and a sparrow from a
canary (and even a barn owl from a little owl), and therefore I have
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 183
a CT of them; however, I would not be able to distinguish between
wrens, redstarts, chaffinches, bullfinches, blackcaps, skylarks, gold-
finches, great tits, warblers, starlings, jays, curlews, or wagtails. I
would recognize them as birds, and that's all. Naturally a hunter or
a bird-watcher would have a competence different from mine, but
this is not the problem. The problem is, if that of the swallow is a
CT, what is the CT of birds in general? Even if we accept the idea
that we know by categorial organization, this organization varies
according to diverse areas of experience, according to human
groups, and according to the individual.
If our knowledge were really structured according to a homoge-
neous system of classes and subclasses, we should name and recog-
nize the objects that follow according to the diagram in figure 3.4.
Superordinate categories Basic categories Subordinate categories
F U R N I T U R E Chair Kitchen chair, living
room chair
Table Kitchen table, living
room table
T R E E Maple Silver maple, Canadian
maple
Birch Silver birch, black birch
F R U I T Apple Rennet, Golden
Apple
Delicious
Grape Muscatel, Pinot noir
Figure 3.4
When we presuppose a schema of this kind, we likewise presup-
pose that the basic categories are the ones learned first and that
therefore they not only play a crucial role in linguistic exchange but
also govern the processes of identification or recognition. When
subjects are asked to enumerate the features, properties, or attri-
butes of a series of stimulus terms (such as animal, furniture, chair,
dog, fruit, apples, and pears) it can be seen that (i) for the superor-
dinate categories, the features are very few in number; (ii) for the
basic categories, the features grow remarkably; and (iii) for the
184 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
subordinate categories, the difference in terms of features as com-
pared to the basic categories, is minimal. For example, only two
features are individuated to define clothing (it's something we put
on and something that keeps us warm), a great number of features
are individuated for trousers (legs, pockets, buttons, they are made
of cloth, you put them on in a certain way, etc.), while for a subor-
dinate category such AS jeans the subjects usually add only the char-
acteristic feature of color (they are usually blue). According to the
number of these distinguishing features, it is obvious that it is eas-
ier to tell trousers from a jacket than to discriminate between two
different kinds of trousers.3 6
All the experiments in this regard have shown that our everyday
knowledge does not correspond to this classification. The situation
can vary according to the subjects, but while many of them can tell
a hen from a turkey, in the case of the curlew and the redstart they
recognize only a bird.
Rosch (1978: 169) talks of an unexpected result when, although
Tree and Furniture were hypothesized as superordinate categories,
it was seen that the subjects could tell a chair from a table much
better than they could an oak from a maple, which were both
generically recognized as trees. I was not surprised in the least by
the result, bearing in mind that for some time Putnam has been
telling us that he cannot distinguish between an elm and a beech
(and I must join the club), while I imagine he can distinguish very
well between a chair and a table or between a banana and an apple.
There are two problems here.
We tend to elaborate CTs with reference to perceptual situations
in which, as far as our corporeal exigencies are concerned, mor-
phology and pertinency count for more than the function we might
call aesthetic and social (and I refer the reader to the paragraph on
affordances in 3.4.7). To decide that a bookshelf and a chair both be-
long to the superordinate category of Furniture, we need to have
an elaborate notion of what a habitat is, of what we expect from a
standard habitation, and of where one goes to purchase the objects
that serve to furnish a standard habitation. The category Furniture,
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 185
therefore, requires a capacity for abstraction. I maintain that a dog
may recognize a chair or a divan, and perhaps a table, as objects on
which he can curl up and have a nap, while he sees a bookshelf or a
(closed) cupboard simply as obstacles, every bit as much as he sees
the walls of the room as obstacles.3
'
On the other hand the property of something being a tree is
one of those semiosic primitives that we instinctively distinguish in
the surrounding environment, and as a result we discriminate be-
tween the tree and animals and other objects (and I don't think a
dog behaves any differently when he uses trees generally as
urinals—except for any repugnance he may feel for some particu-
lar olfactory stimulus). We elaborate first and foremost a CT of the
tree (while the difference between beech and linden tree belongs
only to a more elaborate type of knowledge), because, unless we are
primitive forest dwellers who depend on their ability to recognize
different species of trees, trees appear to us as furnishings of the en-
vironment that, as far as our needs go, all perform the same func-
tion (they give shade, mark boundaries, cluster together in woods
or forests, etc.).3 8
But we can tell a banana from an apple very well, because the
difference counts for our needs and our alimentary preferences,
because we often have to choose between them, or because they
present different conditions of consumability. Therefore it seems
natural that we have distinct CTs for banana and apple and a
generic CT for trees.3 9
These statistical rules are subject to noteworthy exceptions de-
pending on personal experience. Unable as I am to tell an elm from
a linden tree, I can recognize both banyan trees and mangroves
very well. There are three reasons for this: the first is that we are
dealing with trees that nourished my childish imagination as a
reader of adventure stories (especially Salgari's books, at least as far
as the banyan is concerned); the second, which depends on the first,
is that in the course of my travels, when I heard it said that some-
thing was a banyan and that the clumps of vegetation along the
coasts of an island or alongside a swampy canal were mangroves, I
186 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
hastened to look at them and to commit their morphological fea-
tures to memory; the third is that both the banyan and the man-
groves have highly singular and uncommon features, the former
because the trunk branches out toward the roots in a series of star-
shaped "blades," and the latter because (by no means fortuitously)
they are known in colloquial English as walking trees, that is to say,
from a distance they look like insects walking on the water.
Naturally, still owing to biographical accidents, by this time I
would recognize a platypus with certainty. I can identify an iguana,
but I still have only the vaguest ideas about the anaconda. This
does not mean that were I obliged to tell an anaconda from a bad-
ger and a magpie, I could not identify it, because I know it is a
snake, but my idea of snake is "wild" and has nothing to do with
the scientific idea of reptile.
3.7.2. Tiny Tim's Story
We know very well that it is only at a certain age that children ac-
quire classificatory competence, which does not prevent them from
recognizing many objects perfectly well. The following dialogue is
the transcription of a tape recording made without any scientific
intention in 1968, in the course of a children's party, with the sole
purpose of making them play with the recorder, to tell stories or
improvise dialogues. As far as I recall, the subject whose responses
are transcribed here, whom we shall call Tiny Tim, was between
four and five years old.
I: Listen, Tim, I am a gentleman who has always lived on a desert
island on which there are no birds, only dogs, cows, and fish, but
no birds. Finally I am about to come here, and I ask you to explain
to me what a bird is, so that I can recognize one if by chance I
should see one....
TIM: Well, it has a little meat, but it is small in the breast, and it
has little feet and a tiny little head and a little breast, and its wings
are little too, and a few feathers on its breast and... and then it
flies with these feathers and....
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 187
{As can be seen, the child has his own idea of birds, he is probably
thinking of the only birds he has seen on the balcony at home, spar-
rows, and this could suggest a few ideas in the discussion that will fol-
low about prototypes; but it does not enter his head to say that a bird is
a flying biped.)
I: All right. Now listen. I am a gentleman who has always lived on
the top of a mountain, where I quenched my thirst by eating fruit,
but I have never seen water. Now could you explain to me what
water is like?
TIM: What it's like?
I: Yes.
TIM: I don't know what water is like, because nobody has ever
even explained it to me...
I: Have you never seen it?
TIM: Yes, when you put your hands under the water...
I: But I don't know what water is like, so how can I put my hands
under it?
TIM: But under the water that wets... first you put your hands
under the water, then you take the soap, and you put it on, and
then you rinse it away with the water...
I: You have told me what I must do with water, but you haven't
told me what water is. Maybe it's that red thing in the stove that
burns?
TIM:... Nooo! Water is... is....
I: What do I see when I see water? How can I know it is water?
TIM: You get wet when you put your hands under the water!
I: But what it does it mean that it wets you? If I don't know what
water is, then I don't know what wetting means....
TIM: It is transparent....
I: Oh, is it that stuff in the windows that lets you see what's on the
other side?
TIM: Nooo!
I: You said it was transparent....
TIM: No, it's not glass, glass doesn't wet you!
I: But what does to get wet mean?
188 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
TIM: Getting wet is um... ehm....
ANOTHER ADULT, breaking in. That gentleman should know
what wet means if he always eats fruit on that mountain....
TIM: It's damp!!
I: Good. Is it damp like fruit?
TIM: A little bit.
I: A little bit. And is it shaped like fruit, I mean, round?....
TIM: Nooo, water is shaped like... it goes around all over the
place, round, square, all over the place....
I: It takes all the shapes it wants?
TIM: Uh huh....
I: Then here and there you can see square waters, round waters....
TIM: No, not here and there, only in rivers, in streams, in wash-
basins, in baths....
I: So it's a transparent thing, damp, that takes the shape of all the
things ft goes into?
TIM: Yes.
I: And so it's not a solid thing like bread....
TIM: No!
I: And so if it's not solid, what is it?
TIM: I dunno.
I: What is everything that isn't solid?
TIM: It's water.
I: Is it liquid, perhaps?
TIM: You see, water is a transparent liquid that you can't drink,
because the normal stuff has little flies, microbes that you can't
see....
I: Good boy, a transparent liquid.
(As can be seen, Tim knows what a liquid is, and after a lot of hints he
even arrives at a definition that would delight a dictionary semantician
("transparent liquid"). Apparently he cannot get there on his own, and
the first definition he gives is of afunctional nature (what water is for:
he does not go so much for the "dictionary" or morphological charac-
teristics of the object as much as its affordances). Nevertheless we
should recall the question. It was about a man who lived on a moun-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 189
taintop and quenched his thirst without knowing what water was. Tim
understood that the man drankfruit juice, and so the idea of liquid
struck h>m
°s implicit. He tried to identify other characteristics of wa-
ter compared to other liquids. This is a typical case in which the for-
mulation of the question can lead to answers that we then consider
deviant or insufficient.)
I: Listen now, I have never seen a radio. How can I recognize
one?
TIM: (hesitant mumbling)
I: Do it the way you did with water before, when you finally told
me the most important thing, that it was a transparent liquid.
TIM: With batteries or plugged in?
I: But I don't know what a radio is, and therefore I don't know
which is better.
TIM: Well, it has electricity that says everything that... that in the
... batteries is (incomprehensible word)... and says everything that
has happened....
I: And that's a radio?
TIM: You put in the electricity like there is here (points to the tape
recorder) and then it goes.
I: But what is the radio—is it an animal that goes ahead if I put
the electricity inside it?
TIM: No, it's an electrical box that....
I: An electrical box?
TIM: No, it's that inside there is the electricity and the batteries,
with wires... that says everything that has happened.
I: So it's like that box over there, that if I put a record on, it says
what has happened?
TIM: Nooo, it doesn't have a record.
I: Oh, it's a box with electricity, wires, batteries, and without a
record that says everything that has happened.
TIM: Yes.
(Apart from the fact that an adult would also find it difficult to give a
scientific definition of a radio, and it being evident that Tim could rec-
ognize a radio perfectly well, it will be noted that he did not thinks to
190 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
distinguish it from the water and the bird as an artificial kind or Arti-
fact, not even when I suggested the opposition with Animal to him.)
I: Now listen to this. I am a gentleman who has always lived....
TIM: Not on a desert island again!!
I: No, this time in a hospital where the people were ill and each
one was missing a part, some an arm, others a leg. I have never
seen a foot. What is a foot?
TIM: Ha ha... It's this here.
I: No, you mustn't show me it, you must explain to me what it is,
so that when I see one, I can say, oh, this is a foot.
TIM: It's made of meat, it has toes. Don't you know what toes
are?
I: So it's a thing made of meat with toes ... Is this it? (1 show him a
hand.)*
TIM: Nooo. Because the foot has the elbow here, and instead the
hand has it here.
I: Then it is an ill hand, like this {I imitate a withered hand)....
TIM: Nooo! It has the corners and toes straight out in front, it's
like this.
I: Then the street where we live is a foot. It has corners, it is
straight...
TIM: No, it's smaller, and then it has a thing here.
I: Try to tell me where it is...
TIM: It is where the men that walk... It is the thing that men rest
on the ground to walk with... What begins at the hips and goes
down and at the end of the leg—which is that thing there—there
is the foot.
I: One more: it's the man who lives on the desert island again.
And he doesn't know what a hot sausage is.
TIM: It's round.
I: Like a ball?
TIM: No, it's like this, it has corners like this, and it's longer than
a ball and is made of meat.
I: Then it's a leg....
* Translator's note: In Italian,^ingrr and toe are expressed by the same word: "dito."
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 191
TIM: Without the bones, because a leg has bones.
I: How can I recognize a frankfurter? You told me it was made of
meat...
TIM: It's round, it's a half of a ball, but it's only at the corners that
it has nothing, that inside that... halfway... that inside is very very
thin, and then it's made of meat and is pink.
(The session finished here, because Tim was showing signs of tiredness.
As can be seen, he did not thinly of saying that a foot is a Limb and
that a frankfurter is a Food. He must agree with Neisser (1978: f):
categories cannot be a mode of perception.)
3.7.3. Quadruped oysters
I shall say in 4.3 in what sense the scientific categories must be distin-
guished from the "wild" categories, but for the time being I propose
to assume that we have, in line and without any embedding from
general to particular, CTs for apple, banana, tree, hen, sparrow, and
bird. How is it possible to have two distinct CTs for sparrow and
hen and only one for great tits, curlews, and skylarks all together? It
is possible largely because it happens (and by time-honored defini-
tion all that happens is possible). The CT for birds is so "generous"
(or vague, or rough) as to accommodate all animals with wings that
fly in the sky and alight on power lines or trees, and if we spot a spar-
row from a distance, we can in fact decide, for the moment, to con-
sider it a bird and that's that. The term bird has a greater extension
than terms such as hen or sparrow, but I would not say that this
means we perceive the CT of bird as a superordinate category with
respect to that of the hen. That of "animal that flies in the sky with
wings" (which is our ingenuous notion of bird) is a semiosic primi-
tive. For some animals we perceive only that property, and we relate
them to the rough CT of the bird. For others, on recognizing certain
additional properties, we elaborate a CT with a finer grain.
We recognize a CT of the bird on the basis of the features or the
procedures x, y; we recognize a CT of the sparrow on the basis of
the features or the procedures x,y, z; and a CT of the swallow on
192 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
the basis of the property x,y,kj and we realize that there are com-
mon features not only between sparrow and swallow but also be-
tween a sparrow and other animals we recognize as birds. But at
first this must have nothing to do with the logical criterion by
Figure 3.5
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 1 9 3
which we relate the sparrow to the class of birds, even though it is
certainly by starting from similarities that we go on to elaborate
taxonomies. We are simply capable of recognizing sparrows, swal-
lows, and birds, and if then someone wishes to devote himself to
the study of birds in liberty, he will also have a CT for the curlew
and another for the skylark. CTs are generous and disordered;
some people have a CT for the cat, some have one both for a tabby
and a Siamese, and most of the features of the tabby will certainly
be shared by the cat. But even though it seems so evident that it is
on this basis that we can go on to state that every tabby is a cat, I in-
sist on reiterating that, on the level of a perceptual process, this is
still a suspicion, an intuition of identity of properties, and not yet an
inscription in a categorial tree.
If a CT is a procedure for the construction of the conditions of
recognizability and identification of an object, see figure 3.5, which
shows various 3-D models.
There is a 3-D model for the dog or the horse. Nothing prevents
us, owing to more specific needs, from constructing a 3-D model
for a Labrador and a pointer, or for a black horse or a Lippizaner,
just as nothing prevents Putnam and me from going to work in a
nursery one day and learning to distinguish elms from beech trees.
But at first, beech, elm, and tree are all CTs that should be put on
the same level: and each one of us uses the one or the other accord-
ing to his own relations with the environment, considering himself
more or less satisfied. The observation sentences / have seen a
pointer and / have seen a dog are equally useful and pertinent ac-
cording to the circumstances, even before it has been decided that
the category of pointer is subordinate to that of dog. Perceptually
the CT of the dog is cruder than that of the pointer, but it is per-
fectly adequate in certain circumstances; it does not oblige us to
choose between a Great Dane and an Irish wolfhound, and we ask
no more than that.
In my view, therefore, the discourse on the CTs still has nothing
to do with the discourse on a taxonomic-categorial system. The
CTs are only bricks for use in the erection of categorial systems.
Nonetheless there are some possible counterexamples. I admit
194 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
that the experiment I am about to cite could be used both to equate
the categories to the CTs and to deny this equation. Humphreys
and Riddoch (1995: 34) tell us of a patient affected by cerebral le-
sions, who, when shown an insect, drew it with not very much re-
alism but certainly in a way that allows us to recognize something
very similar to an insect (fig. 3.6). The fact that he drew it tells us he
interpreted it and therefore supplied indications for its identifica-
tion and future recognition; in short, if he did not have one before,
he had now constructed a CT. But when the insect was removed
and he was asked to draw it, the subject represented it as a kind of
bird (fig. 3.7).
Figures 3.6 and j . 7
When the same patient, capable of recognizing an oyster as such
(in the absence of the model), was invited to draw it, he represented
it with four legs. The authors note that, for the short-term visual
memory, we must postulate deposited mental knowledge, whose
degeneration compromises the reconstruction of the remembered
object. Could the case be interpreted in terms of a disturbance of
categorial competence? In point of fact, in the absence of the insect
the patient did not draw a chair and in place of the oyster a pencil.
His memory retained a feature of "animality," and therefore it
could have worked its way up from the insect or the oyster to the
superordinate category of the animals, and thence back down to-
ward the birds or some other unspecified beast. But if we consider
the perception of animality as a precategorial experience, then by
retaining only one vague attribute of what he had seen, the patient
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 195
might have gone to fish out any CT that contained it, thus slipping
from one CT to another, as if surfing in the archipelago of the CTs,
instead of working his way up from species to genus.
I am not maintaining that previous knowledge or categorial sus-
picions do not play a part in the construction of a CT—and the case
of Marco Polo mentioned in 2.1 confirms this. I am merely suppos-
ing that CTs (i) can be constructed independently of an organized
categorial competence and (ii) can also be activated independently
and even in conflict with such a competence (as will be seen when
we retell the story of the platypus in 4.5).
3.7.4 C T s and prototypes
3.7.4.1 Stereotypes and prototypes
Can we identify CTs with those that Putnam (1975: 295) calls
stereotypes? If we consider Putnam's representation of the content
of the term water (fig. 3.8),
Syntactic Markers Semantic Markers Stereotype Extension
Noun
Concrete
Mass noun
Natural kind
Liquid
Colorless
Transparent
Tasteless
H,0
Figure 3.8
we could say that the CT includes both semantic markers and
stereotypical information (while naturally the property of being
H , 0 is part of the MC). In any case the CT has the folk nature of
the stereotype, and the random blend of dictionary and encyclope-
dic elements.
But it is perhaps more interesting to make it clear that stereo-
types are not what cognitivist literature has called prototypes.
One of the ways in which the prototype is currently understood
is that it is a member of a category, which becomes a model for the
recognition of other members that share some properties recog-
nized as salient. When invited to define a bird, Tiny Tim thought
I96 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
of the prototype of the sparrow, for the simple reason that this was
the bird he was most familiar with. If taken literally, the experi-
ments carried out regarding the identification of prototypes allow
one to think that this is the way we all usually behave.
Others are inclined to consider it as more a bundle of features,
and in that sense it would be closer to the stereotype. When we
think of a dog (unless we live with one on a day-to-day basis), we
do not think of a Dalmatian rather than a Labrador but of a mon-
grel type. When we think of a bird, we imagine a winged biped of
average size (let's say between a sparrow and a pigeon) and seldom
(unless we have come straight from the Arabian Nights) something
like the roc. This mongrel form varies according to the culture (I
imagine that an inhabitant of the South Sea islands might have a
CT of the bird that emphasizes the vividness of the plumage more
than is the case with us), but it is precisely in the negotiation of a
space for common agreement that the CTs happily mongrelize
themselves. Let's think of an animal such as the dinosaur, which we
do not know by direct experience but through real prototypes of-
fered us by the Encyclopedia. Even in this case I maintain that the
most common CT is a cross between a dinosaur, a brontosaurus, a
Tyrannosaurus rex, and various other extinct giant reptiles. If it were
possible to project an average of the mental images that each of us
has in this regard, we would find ourselves with an animal out of
Walt Disney rather than something we see reconstructed in a nat-
ural history museum.4 0
A third version would have the prototypes as something more
abstract, a set of requisites that may be expressed propositionally,
necessary if we are to predicate something as belonging to a cate-
gory; and here the ambiguity of "category" crops up again, since in
this last case we are already thinking in terms of classification.
3-J-4-2 Some misunderstandings regarding prototypes
Prototypes have enjoyed and still enjoy vast popularity in psycho-
logical literature, but their history is fairly complex, partly because
the person who has worked most on them, Eleanor Rosch, has suc-
cessively changed her mind about their nature. The scholar who
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 1 9 7
has reconstructed the matter with the greatest precision is perhaps
Lakoff (1987), and I will keep to his synthesis.
The story of prototypes springs from a series of questions, from
Wittgenstein to Rosch, that regard family resemblances, centrality
(the idea that some members of a category are better examples than
others), gradience (the hen is seen by many as less of a bird than the
sparrow), linguistic economy (the fact that language uses shorter
and more easily memorizable words for things that appear as or-
ganic wholes rather than a set or class of morphologically different
objects). But this, as we have seen in the preceding paragraphs,
proves the fact that there are basic categories that depend on the
perception of forms, on our motor acts, and on the facility of mem-
orization, and that on this level speakers name things that manifest
"an integrity of their own" and are "human-sized" with greater
ease (Lakoff 1987: 519).
But this does not show that the categories assume the form of
prototypes. To say that the words cat, Katz, or chien are handier
and easier to memorize than the words Felis or Mammal certainly
confirms that in everyday experience it is easier for us to identify
something as cat rather than as mammal, but it does not tell us
whether there is a prototype of the cat or, if there is, what this may
be. If anything, the problem of prototypes concerns phenomena
such as that of the extensibility of categorial limits (extendible
boundaries), so that it is debatable whether certain highly complex
irregular polyhedrons are polyhedrons, while there are no doubts
about the better known regular polyhedrons, or whether transfinite
numbers are numbers or not, while no one doubts that 2 or
100,000,000 are numbers.
But the existence of basic categories is inferred from spontaneous
everyday linguistic behavior, whereas an experiment like the one
on polyhedrons or numbers requires an interviewer to ask a subject
to answer a question that brings complex classifications into play.
Therefore the problem is: Can the existence of prototypes be in-
ferred from everyday behavior (not only linguistic but also behav-
ioral, such as felicitous recognition) or from verbal responses to
sophisticated questions?
198 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
To come to Eleanor Rosch, in a first phase of her experiments
(between the sixties and the seventies) prototypes were a matter of
perceptual pertinence. In a second phase (the first half of the seven-
ties) the prototypical effects obtainable by experiment were thought
to provide a characterization of the internal structure of the cate-
gory (hence the persuasion that they constituted mental representa-
tions). In a third phase (the late seventies) prototypical effects were
thought to subdetermine mental representations, but there was
no one-to-one correspondence between prototypical effects and
mental representations. The effects were not thought to reflect cat-
egorial structure. Therefore we might know judgments of proto-
typicality, but they would tell us nothing about our cognitive
processes, and prototypical effects would be superficial.4 1
In point of fact Rosch (1978: i74ff.) makes it clear that the proto-
type is neither a member of a category nor a precise mental struc-
ture but, rather, the result of an experiment that aims at collecting
and quantifying judgments on the degree of prototypicality. What
does degree of prototypicality mean? We are said to have an identi-
fication of prototypicality when a member of a category is assigned
the greatest number of attributes that it shares with other members
of the category.
Now, the subjects who attribute to vehicles in general only two
properties (of moving and of transporting people), tend to identify
a motor car as the prototype of vehicle (with about twenty-five
characteristic features) and to put the bicycle or boat on lower lev-
els, while reserving the lowest places in the ranking for the lighter-
than-air vehicle and finally the elevator. The elevator is attributed
with only two properties (of moving and of transporting people).4 2
But in that case, the elevator ought to be the prototype of Vehicles,
seeing as it presents precisely those properties common to any vehi-
cle and would therefore allow us to relate even the most diverse
species and tokens to vehicles. In any categorial order, the superor-
dinate genus must have fewer features than the subordinate
species, and the species fewer of the individual tokens that make
recognition possible. If the CT for dog provided instructions for
"constructing" a Pekinese and nothing else, it would be hard to ap-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 199
ply it to an Irish wolfhound. If a prototype (where a classificatory
system has already been established) and a CT have anything in
common, it would be that both ought to have maximum extension
and minimum intension. Instead the prototype has minimum ex-
tension and maximum intension.
It seems to me that the notion of prototype has a value for mak-
ing clear the "borders" of a basic category. If it is decided that the
salient features of the superordinate category of birds are beak,
feathers, wings, two feet and the ability to fly, it is natural that there
be some difficulty over defining the hen fully as a bird, because it
does not fly but, at best, flaps about (and yet it is not excluded, be-
cause it must be admitted that other birds do not cease being birds
when they are not flying). It strikes me that what is more debatable
here regards the identification of what the prototype is, because I
believe that such identification depends on environmental experi-
ences and that judgments of prototypicality have more value for
cultural anthropological research than for the determination of
cognitive mechanisms in general.4 3
3.7.4-3 The mysterious Dyirbal
In any experiment on classification, it is always the experimenter
who proposes a subdivision into classes inspired by a certain cul-
tural model, tending not only to obliterate "wild" forms of classifi-
cation but also to presuppose a classification in which probably
there are only morphological accidents devoid of a semantic coun-
terpart.
A curious case of this kind is to be found in Lakoff (1977: 6),
where reference is made (on the basis of other research) to the
Dyirbal language (Australia), in which every term must be pre-
ceded by one of these words:
Bayi: men, kangaroos, possums, bats, most snakes, most fishes,
some birds, most insects, the moon, storms, rainbows,
boomerangs, some spears, etc.
Balan: women, bandicoots, dogs, platypuses, echidnas, some
snakes, some fishes, most birds, fireflies, scorpions, crickets, the
2 0 0 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
hairy mary grub, anything connected with water or fire, sun and
stars, shields, some spears, some trees, etc.
Balam: all edible fruits and the plants that bear them, tubers,
ferns, honey, cigarettes, wine, cake
Bala: parts of the body, meat, bees, wind, yam sticks, some spears,
most trees, grass, mud, stones, noise, language, etc.
Lakoff is surprised that such "categorizations" are used by the
natives automatically and almost without their being aware of it,
and he seeks semantic and symbolic reasons to justify them. He
finds, for example, that birds are classified with women, because
they are held to be the spirits of dead women, but he does not man-
age to explain why the platypus is grouped with women, fire, and
dangerous things—as you can see, I am not the only one for whom
this animal is a source of continuous worry.
However, Lakoff notes that for speakers of the latest genera-
tions, who have lost almost all of the tongue of their fathers, there
remain only Bayi for males and nonhuman living creatures, Balan
for human females, and Bala for all the rest, and, reasonably,
he connects the phenomenon with the influence of the English
pronominal system (He, She, It). A correct observation, which
nonetheless would encourage one to go further—beyond English, I
mean to say. Let is suppose that in a Mediterranean peninsula there
lives a singular population whose natives have the curious habit of
putting one of two words before every noun: il (with the variant lo)
or la, with the following "categorial" effects:
// is applied to men, kangaroos, bats, many snakes (boa, python, co-
bra), many fish (bass, pike, swordfish, shark), many insects (hornet,
ladybird), sun, guardian, storm, rainbow, boomerang, wagon, rifle,
machine, pistol, platypus, rhinoceros.
La is applied to women, sentinel, the tiger, locomotive, some snakes
(viper, grass snake), some fish (trout, gilthead), many birds (swal-
low, great tit), insects (wasp, fly), water, moon, star, armor, pistol,
spear, some trees (oak, palm), giraffe, skunk.
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 201
As we well know, grammatical gender has nothing to do with
sexual gender and not even with any classification that on a con-
ceptual level puts sentinel on the same side as locomotive and moon,
and the sun on the same side as guardian and wagon. At the end of
the day, we could even suppose that to the north of that peninsula,
on the other side of a mountain range, there lives another (ex-
tremely barbarous) population that, like the young Dyirbal, put
one of three words before every term: der, die, and das (perhaps ow-
ing to an effect of "pidginization," under the influence of the En-
glish pronominal system), but that in this case the fact that the sun
is die like woman, the moon der like the leopard and the tiger, and
that the platypus, the ear, and gold are all das is of no categorial im-
portance.
I am not suggesting in the slightest that something occurs in the
Dyirbal language that is similar to what occurs in Italian, German,
French, and many other languages. I am merely expressing the
suspicion that grammatical phenomena are often discussed as phe-
nomena of classification—which casts a shadow over many inves-
tigations in which classifications familiar to the experimenter but
not shared by the subjects are presumed, or in which the ex-
perimenter vainly struggles to deduce classifications where the
subjects do not classify at all and merely follow grammatical
automatisms.4 4
3.7.5. Other types
I intend to restrict myself to those cases in which objects or events
of actual or possible perceptual experience are in question, rather
than go further into what happens when we talk of the Ban\ of
England, government, the majority system, emphyteusis, fate, adversity,
metonymy, precision, instinct, and so on. But up to what scale can we
talk of objects of possible perception?
Is the Italian peninsula perceivable? Today it is, just as much as
the moon, nor is there any need to look at it from the moon, when
we can photograph it from a satellite. And before we had satellites,
2 0 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
was there a CT of the Boot? Of course there was, as every Italian
schoolboy knows, just as every French schoolboy had a CT of the
Hexagon. Yet in those days nobody had perceived these territories.
However, through successive approximations, by mapping the
coasts to a scale that was almost one to one, an image was obtained
(certainly variable in time and according to the projections or the
imperfection of the measurements, as happened with ancient maps)
that transmitted the NC of the geographical expressions Italy and
France.
Are there CTs of historic figures? For some, who have inspired
a massive and highly popular iconography (such as Napoleon), the
answer is certainly yes. Is there a CT of Roger Bacon? I doubt it;
there is only an NC, not known to everybody either ("medieval
philosopher") and an MC available for the experts. I think that, be-
yond a certain limit, some very intricate situations arise. We cer-
tainly do not have a CT for some chemical substances, but we have
one for others, such as hydrochloric acid, at least as much as we
have one for the skunk (see Neubauer and Petofi 1981); but a
chemist might have a more developed competence in this regard.
We do not have a cognitive type for diabetes (it is a different matter
to say that a doctor has a cognitive type for the symptoms of dia-
betes), but we have the impression that we can identify at a glance
a person suffering from a cold, so much so that people with colds
can be caricatured or mimed.
Just how little the archipelago of the CTs has been explored is
revealed to us by a very common experience.
3.7.6 If on a Winter's Night a Driver
I am driving at night on a country road, covered with a thin layer
of ice to boot. At a certain point I see ahead of me, in the distance,
two sources of white light, which gradually get bigger. First there
comes Firstness: two white lights. Then, in order to compare a se-
quence of stimuli distributed temporally (light in time, greater
than light in time!), I must have already begun a perceptual infer-
ence. At this point there come into play what Neisser (1976, 4) calls
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 203
"schemata," forms of expectation and anticipation that orient the
selection of elements from the stimulating field (which does not
mean that the stimulating field does not offer me some salient fea-
tures, some preferential directions). I really do not think I could ac-
tivate a system of expectations if I did not already possess the CT
"motor car" plus the script "motor car at night."
The fact that I see two white lights and not two red lights tells
me that the motor car is not moving away from me but coming to-
ward me. If I were a rabbit, I would remain dazzled without being
able to interpret such a singular phenomenon, and I would be run
over. In order to control the situation, I must understand instantly
that what is coming toward me is not a pair of bright eyes but a
body with certain morphological features, even if those are not in
my stimulating field. Even though the lights I see are those lights (a
concrete token), as soon as I pass on to perceptual judgment, I have
already entered the universal: what I can see is a car, and I'm not
much interested in the make, or in who is driving it.
This is by way of a reply to Gibson and his fundamentally realis-
tic and nonconstructivist, "ecological," theory of perception. One
might agree with him when he states that
the function of the brain ... is not to decode signals, nor to interpret
messages nor accept images... The function of the brain is not even
to organize sensory input or to process data... The perceptual sys-
tems, including the nerve centers at various levels up to the brain,
are ways of seeking and extracting information about the environ-
ment from the flowing array of ambient energy. (1966: 5)
Let us admit that it is the stimulating field itself that offers me
salient features, that it is something which is there that provides me
with sufficient information to perceive two bright round sources of
light, to distinguish the "borders" that separate them from the sur-
rounding environment. I imagine that the rabbit sees something
similar, and that its receptors react preferentially to the source of
light rather than the surrounding darkness. But only by calling, as
Gibson does, this first phase of the process "perception" are we
right in saying that it is determined by salient features proposed by
204 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
the stimulating field. However, if I wish to keep faith with my ter-
minological premises, perceptual judgment is something far more
complex than this. What makes me different from the rabbit is that
I pass from those stimuli, for all they are determined by the object,
to the perceptual judgment That is a car, applying a CT and then
integrating what stimulates me now with what I already knew.
Only when I have formulated the perceptual judgment am I
able to proceed to a further series of inferences. First of all, I relate
the type to the token; the position of the headlights tells me if the
car is keeping to the right side of the road or if it is getting danger-
ously close to the middle, if it is traveling at high or low speed. Ac-
cording to whether I started off by seeing two barely perceptible
light sources in the distance or whether the appearance of the lights
was preceded by a diffuse glow, I understand whether there is a
bend or a dip in the road coming up. Knowing that the road is icy
also persuades me to follow other (learned) rules of prudence. As
Neisser (1976: 65) would have put it, in this oscillation I am gener-
alizing the object on the one hand and particularizing the schema
on the other.
If this is the way things happen, I do not even need to think, as
Kant does, that on the one hand there is the manifold of sensation
and on the other the abstract apparatus of the categories waiting to
be applied with, as a mediatory element, the schema. The schema
would be a device, a system of instructions so flexible as to mediate
itself continuously, so to speak, and to enhance and correct itself on
the basis of the specific experience I am having, impregnated as it is
both with semiosic primitives (an object, a brightness) and categor-
ial elements (a car, a vehicle, a moving object).
As I assess the entire situation, there also come into play what
Neisser calls "cognitive maps." I apply to the situation what I know
about the default characteristics of a country road (and an icy one
at that), and I also assess the width, for example, of the one on
which I am traveling, otherwise I could not establish whether the
car down there is keeping to the right side of the road or whether
there is a risk of its colliding with me. From the way in which my
car reacts to little exploratory dabs on the brake pedal, I estimate
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 205
whether the road surface would tolerate sudden, heavier braking
(and in such a case I do not perceive with my eyes but with my feet
and buttocks, interpreting a quantity of stimuli that come to me
proprioceptively).
In short, in the course of this experience I put to work diverse
CTs; CTs of objects, situations, and specific competences that
would seem to belong more to MC; schemata of cause-and-effect
relations, as well as inferences of various types and degrees of com-
plexity. What I see is only a part of what I understand, and what I
understand includes a system of rules of the road, of acquired
habits, of laws, of a learned case history, and so I already know
that in the past a failure to respect those rules has led to a fatal
accident....
That most of these competences are public is borne out intersub-
jectively by the fact that, if I am inattentive or sleepy, someone be-
side me will be able to warn me that a car is coming straight for us,
and to advise me to steer more to my side of the road (note that this
someone has arrived at the same perceptual judgment as I even
though he or she is receiving the stimuli at a different angle).
Perhaps, in the course of this process, I have assessed only
epiphenomena. But if I did not take these epiphenomena seriously,
I would be a rabbit on death row.
3.7.7 Physiognomic types by individuals
But let's go back to the census of the various CTs that make up our
as yet largely unexplored archipelago. A CT can also regard indi-
viduals. Jackendoff (1987: 198—99) suggests that, even though we
have recourse to the same 3-D model both for the recognition of in-
dividuals and of genera, two distinct processes are involved. In the
case in which I categorize George as a male human being, I decide
that the token, is an example of the typek . In the case in which I
recognize George as George, I decide that a toke^ is identical to
the token.. Others would say that in the first case I recognize
George as similar to other people, in the second as the same person.
We could say that type and token coincide in individuals. But it
206 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
does not happen like this in the processes of recognition, because
token, (the individual I see in this instant) really is a token, while
token is after all retrieved from the memory, be it a mental image
or any other form of record, and therefore it is a CT, which we
ought to define as an "individual type" but which, since this term
borders on oxymoron, I shall call physiognomic type.
If we do not postulate physiognomic types, the fact that we are
able to recognize the same person over the course of time remains
inexplicable. Year after year people change, the face gets fatter or
thinner, wrinkles appear, the hair grows white, the shoulders sag,
the walk loses its elasticity. It is prodigious that in normal circum-
stances we can recognize someone after having lost touch for a
great many years. If we do not recognize him right away, all we
need is a tone of voice, a glance, to push us toward recognition and
the ritual "You haven't changed a bit!"
This means that we had constructed a physiognomic type of the
subject with only a few salient features of the original, which some-
times have more to do with a way of moving the eyes than the
shape of the nose or the quantity and length of hair. We memorize
a sort of gestalt of the face (or of the posture, or sometimes the gait)
that can even resist changes in each individual property.
The extent to which the physiognomic type is schematic is well
known to lovers, prone to having two apparently contradictory ex-
periences. On the one hand, they are always under the impression
they have spotted their beloved in the distance, only to realize later
that they were wrong: this amounts to saying that desire led them
to apply the physiognomic type with generosity, trying to make it
applicable to many concrete tokens. On the other hand, when the
loved one is absent, lovers try desperately to reconstruct his or her
features in the memory and are constantly left disappointed by the
fact that they do not have the same intense feeling that occurred
when they saw their beloved directly. In this case they find out how
the physiognomic type serves for the recognition of tokens but not
as a surrogate for direct perception of the token (with the exception
of subjects with an eidetic memory, like many artists who can draw
a portrait relying on memory alone). In other words, they become
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 207
aware of the remarkable difference between "recognition" and "re-
call" (see Evans 1982, 8).
But physiognomic types for individuals possess a characteristic
that distinguishes them from generic CTs, which, however private
they may be, can usually be made public in the form of an inter-
preted NC. It certainly happens that someone can easily recognize
mice but cannot or has never had occasion to express the morpho-
logical features by which he recognizes them, and therefore we
have no guarantee that with regard to mice this person has a type
like that of other people (for idiosyncratic reasons he may recog-
nize them only by their rapid movement, having no notion of their
shape). When we talk about mice to this person, at best he would
describe them as "disagreeable rodents that thrive in the home,"
and since this notion is a part of the common NC, we would come
to the mistaken conclusion that this person's CT has the same for-
mat as our own and shares with our CT a knowledge of all the
morphological features that are part of the area of common knowl-
edge. But the circumstances of communal life make a case of this
kind highly improbable, and while this could happen nowadays
with mice (very seldom seen by the vast majority of people), it
could happen only rarely with a cow and extremely rarely with a
chair.
The same thing does not happen with physiognomic types of in-
dividuals. Note that the phenomenon occurs not only with humans
but also, a fortiori, with individual animals, vegetables, and arti-
facts. Anyone will agree about what a dog, a bicycle, or a pipe looks
like, but it is extremely hard to explain to someone what the dog
Tom, my bicycle, or my pipe looks like. In the case of animals and
objects, the generic features usually prevail, and we sometimes
have trouble recognizing our car from among a large number of
cars of the same make in the parking lot (unless our car has distin-
guishing marks). But the import of the problem is different with
regard to human individuals.
I would recognize Johnny among a million individuals, and it
would be the same for Mark, and yet the reasons why I recognize
Johnny may be enormously different from those that lead Mark to
208 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
recognize him. Mark and I could spend a lifetime referring to
Johnny, and both of us would recognize him when we met him,
without ever having had occasion to make public the features
through which we identify him. We would notice the difference
between our CTs only if one day we were both asked to collaborate
on his police sketch: only then would I discover that Mark not only
has never paid attention to the shape of Johnny's nose but also has
ignored Johnny's abundance of hair or incipient baldness, and per-
haps he considers him slim while I see him as robust. If someone
were then to ask us who Johnny is, on interpreting the content of
the name, we would notice not only that our interpretations fail to
coincide but also that the boundaries between NC and MC would
be very vague. Perhaps both of us might say that he is a human be-
ing, of the male sex, a professor of such and such at the university
of such and such, but for me Johnny would be Louis's brother and
the author of a renowned book on the Nahuatl language (which
was Montezuma's native tongue), while Mark might show that he
did not know these details. And yet just one of these details could
enable a third party to associate the name Johnny with a very large
number of other properties, and even push this third party to disin-
ter, from his own memory, data useful for Johnny's identification.
For his part, Mark might be the only one to know that Johnny has
the property of being Jack the Ripper, and nobody would dream of
saying that this is an insignificant property—even though it strikes
me as being a part of the MC and not the NC.
Let us say then that with individuals three phenomena occur:
(i) the frequently idiosyncratic nature of the CTs that make it pos-
sible to recognize individuals, (ii) the difficulty of interpreting these
CTs publicly and therefore of providing instructions for identifica-
tion, and (iii) the elasticity of the properties that may be expressed
in terms of an NC. I think that this is one of the reasons many the-
oreticians maintain that the proper names of individuals have
no content but designate their bearer directly. Clearly this is a
foregone conclusion, because much of our life is spent defining
(for others) the various individuals that we name by correlating
their names to an occasionally vast series of properties, expressed
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 209
through verbal descriptions and visual representations; but it is cer-
tain that such descriptions express features that in certain situations
and for some people are salient, despite the fact that the features are
not always salient for everybody, while there can be a notable gap
between one interpretation and another.4 5
In 1970, I grew a beard. Twenty years later, I shaved it off for a
few months, and I noticed that some friends did not recognize me
at first sight when they met me, while others immediately estab-
lished a normal interaction, as if they were unaware of the change.
I understood later that the subjects in the first category had
known me only in the last twenty years, therefore when I already
had a beard, while those in the second category had known me be-
fore I grew the beard. We construct physiognomic types of the
persons we meet (almost always based on first impressions or, in
exceptional cases, on the moment in which the impression was
most vivid) and rely on that for the rest of our life—in a certain
sense we adapt the features of the "new" token we meet to the ini-
tial type, rather than correct the type at every new encounter.4 6
This leads me to think that, just as caricatures emphasize fea-
tures that are really to be found in the face portrayed, and just as
the study of stupidity often serves to gain a better understanding of
intelligence, much pathological behavior does little more than em-
phasize "normal" tendencies, which are usually controlled by and
reabsorbed into more complex models of behavior. I am thinking
of the studies on prosopagnosia and in particular of the fine analy-
sis made by Sacks (1985) on the man who mistook his wife for a
hat. Since not even Sacks knows what really happened inside
Mr. P.'s black box, we can content ourselves with considering
Mr. P.'s verbal interpretations.
P. does not recognize faces, but he is not just suffering from
prosopagnosia, he also has generalized agnosia and does not recog-
nize landscapes, objects, or figures: he focalizes his attention on
particular features without managing to compose them in a global
image. He gives a minute description of a rose but does not identify
it as such until he smells its scent; he supplies a most detailed de-
scription of a glove but recognizes it only when he slips it on...
2IO / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Sacks says (with reference to Kant) that P. was incapable of judg-
ment, but I would say that P. did not possess schemata (and in fact
in a bibliographical note Sacks admits that P. must have had a
"Marr type" deficit and that he did not have a "primal sketch" for
objects).
Nevertheless there is something in the way that P. laboriously
recognized people that strikes us as being very close to the way in
which we recognize them—except for the fact that P.'s behavior is
a caricature of ours. First of all P. notices the details; he recognizes
the photo of Einstein only because of the mustache and hair, and
the photo of his brother Paul only because of the large teeth. This
was like another patient mentioned by Sacks in the postscript: he
did not recognize his wife and children but recognized some
friends through certain relevant characteristics: a tic, a mole, ex-
treme thinness.
It seems to me that in elaborating types of individuals, we nor-
mally proceed like this. We certainly have the ability to construct
schemata and "primal sketches," we can abstract from an infinite
number of particulars, we restrain our tendency to dwell on every
minimal individual detail: nevertheless we accept a regulated im-
balance, we tend to seize on salient aspects and retain them with
greater care in our memory. My physiognomic type of Johnny is
different from Mark's, because both of us (to a very limited extent)
are like Mr. P. Ultimately it is continuous social interaction that
obliges us not to be completely like Mr. P., because to be defined
normal, it suffices (for better or worse) to keep to the rules laid
down—and if necessary corrected—by the community, step by
step.
3.7.8 C T s for formal individuals
Johnny is an individual, unique and unrepeatable, but Mark and I
can both recognize him for different reasons. Now let us ask our-
selves if there is a CT for Scott's Ivanhoe and Beethoven's Fifth. I
would say that there is, because on opening the book (or at least on
reading the first lines) or at the beginning of the composition, any-
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 2 1 1
one who knows these two works well will recognize them. But
what are these works of the intellect (I use this expression not only
for literary, pictorial, architectonic, and musical works but also for
philosophical and scientific essays)? Let us take another look at
what was said in Eco (1976 3.4.6—8).
Johnny is an individual. The phoneme I pronounce is a replica of
the phoneme type (there are variations in pronunciation, but the
pertinent features established by the type are retained). Any first
edition of Ivanhoe is a double of all the other books with the same
title printed by the same publisher (in the sense that every copy has,
at least on a molar level, all the properties of any other copy). But it
is at the same time the clone of a "literary" archetype: the publish-
ing type regards the substance of the expression (paper, font, bind-
ing), while the literary archetype regards the form of the content.
In this case my paperback copy of Ivanhoe (paper and typographic
problems excluded) is a clone of the same literary archetype of
which the first copy of the 1819 edition is itself a clone. While from
an antiquarian standpoint (in which the substance of the expres-
sion, the paper, becomes pertinent) a copy of the 1 8 1 9 edition is
more valuable, from a linguistic and literary standpoint (the form
of the expression) my copy possesses all the pertinent properties of
the archetype as it flowed from the author's pen (with the result
that, immaterial of the edition, an actor could declaim passages
from the text, producing the same substance of the sound expres-
sion and creating the same aesthetic effects).
The archetype of Ivanhoe is not a generic type, a form of
Peircean Legisign: it looks more individual than Johnny, because
Johnny would always be Johnny even if he lost his hair, teeth, and
arms, whereas if someone were to change the beginning or the end
or replace words here and there, Ivanhoe would become something
else, a counterfeit, a case of plagiarism in part.
Is Ivanhoe as individual as the Mono Lisa? We know (Goodman
1968: 99) that there is a difference between autographic art, which
does not allow of notation and is therefore not replicable (the Mona
Lisa) and the allographic arts, replicable—some in accordance with
rigorous criteria, such as books, but others in accordance with
2 1 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
interpretative flexibility, such as music. But if one day it were possi-
ble to replicate every nuance of color, every brush stroke, and every
detail of the canvas of the Mona Lisa, the difference between the
original and the copy would have antiquarian value (just as in the
world of rare books the more valuable copy between two copies of
the same edition is the one signed by the author) but not semiotic
value.
In short, whether we like it or not, Ivanhoe is an individual, even
though it has the property of being reproducible (but in such a way
that every one of its doubles has the same exquisite individual char-
acteristics as the archetype).4
' That is why I can have a nongeneric
physiognomic type of it. Not knowing what to call these strange
types of individuals that are works of the intellect, and bearing in
mind that their individuality concerns only the form of the expres-
sion and the content, not the substance, I would venture to call
them formal individuals. Once we are on this path, other interesting
formal individuals could be identified, but for the time being I shall
restrict myself to applying the definition to those works of the in-
tellect that are objects of direct perception.
Naturally, I might open a book I have already read and fail to
recognize it from the first pages, but on the other hand if I caught a
glimpse of Johnny from a distance and from behind and in the
middle of a crowd into the bargain, I might feel just as puzzled. It
is worth talking about this puzzlement, because it could upset our
ideas on recognition and identification. Since the ploy of Ivanhoe or
the Fifth seems too facile, let us try a mental experiment that in-
volves a more problematic formal individual.
3.7.9 Recognizing S C 2
All the electrical appliances at home are out of order following a
blackout, except for the radio with the built-in CD player, which is
battery-powered. Left in total darkness, all I can do is listen to my
favorite composition, Bach's Second Suite for Solo Cello (which
henceforward I shall call SC2), in a transcription for the treble
recorder. Since it is pitch dark and I cannot read the CD labels,
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 213
there is nothing for it but to try them all. To make the story more
complicated, since I have a plaster cast on one foot but my friend
Robert, like me a fan of SC2, is in the room, I ask him to grope his
way to the CD player-radio and to do the job in my stead. There-
fore I say to him: Please, go to find me SC2, precisely as if I were ask-
ing him to go meet our mutual friend Johann Sebastian at the
railway station. I have started an operation of reference that pre-
sumes, on Robert's part, the capacity to identify the referent, or the
designatum of my linguistic act.4 8
As far as a musical piece is concerned, the notion of individuality
seems compromised by the fact that different executions of the
same composition can be made by different performers. In such a
case, however (and for those sensible of these differences), the indi-
vidual would be not S C 2 but that thing known as SC2/Bruggen, as
distinct from SC2/Rampal. In this mental experiment of ours, we
shall behave as if there were only one execution of SC2, reproduced
on thousands of records. In this case recognizing SC2 is like leafing
through various books and recognizing Ivanhoe. And in fact this is
exactly how it happens with the majority of listeners, who always
recognize S C 2 in its various executions despite the differences in
interpretation.
What are the instructions that Robert possesses in order to iden-
tify the individual, and to what extent do they coincide with those
at my disposal?
Wittgenstein (Tractatus, 4.104) says that "the gramophone rec-
ord, the musical thought, the score, the waves of sound, all stand to
one another in that pictorial internal relation, which holds between
language and the world. To all of them the logical structure is com-
mon." Let us leave aside the strong assumption of Wittgenstein's
theory of Abbildung, which would have linguistic propositions as
icons of the state of things to which they refer (the later Wittgen-
stein was far more prudent with regard to this). Considering only
the musical example, it seems clear to me that we are faced with
two different phenomena.
We have the iconic relation between sound waves and the
grooves in the vinyl of the disc or the sequences of discrete signals
214 I K A N T A N D T H E
P L A T Y P U S
in the CD. We are certainly dealing with cast relations, with a pri-
mary iconism like that discussed in 2.8, a relation that would estab-
lish itself even in the absence of any mind to interpret it and that
continues to subsist both when the sound waves are recorded ana-
logically and when they are translated digitally.
There is a different relation between the physical phenomenon
and its transcription on the stave, on the one hand, and between it
and the "musical idea," on the other. Transcription to the stave cer-
tainly represents a (highly conventional) way of rendering the mu-
sical idea public. That the procedure is conventional (highly
codified) does not eliminate the fact that the sequence of the writ-
ten notes is motivated by the sequence of the sounds imagined or
tried out on an instrument by the composer. We are faced with one
of those cases that in A Theory of Semiotics I defined as ratio difficilis,
in which the form of the expression is motivated by the form of the
content.
The problem arises when we wish to define the form of the con-
tent, which seems to correspond to what Wittgenstein called the
musical idea, which is that ideal of "good form" upon which the
performer is trying to confer substance while interpreting the notes
on the stave. What does musical idea mean? Whatever it means, it
is certainly that formal individuality that I must identify in order to
recognize SC2 as such. But is it also that sequence of notes that
Bach imagined, a Dynamical Object whose whereabouts (ontologi-
cally speaking) we no longer know, in the same sense that we do
not know the whereabouts of the Square Triangle? One would
have to say that the Immediate Object should be the physiognomic
type of this Dynamical Object, otherwise how could we clone it
in an intersubjectively acceptable way and recognize each of its
clones? Nonetheless in my mental experiment the matter gets more
complicated, because Bach conceived his suite for the cello (not for
the recorder), and therefore his first musical idea also included fea-
tures of timbre that were changed in the transcription. But I have
not chosen such a damned complex situation by chance. The fact is
that when people who know S C 2 only in the transcription for
recorder hear the piece performed for the first time by the cello,
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 215
they have a moment of puzzlement, but usually by the end they
will have recognized with surprise that it is the same composition.
On the other hand we recognize any given song whether it is per-
formed on the guitar or the piano, and it is therefore worth sticking
to a physiognomic type so schematic that it can do without parame-
ters such as timbre, which is no small matter.5 0
It is clear that, if the relation between the sound waves and the
grooves of the disc is a case of primary iconism—and if the relation
between Briiggen's execution and the notes of the score is already
substantiated by multiple interpretative inferences, choices, and ac-
centuations of pertinency—we have now arrived, with the phys-
iognomic type, at an extremely complex process that seems very
difficult to take account of. What is the musical idea I am consider-
ing? Must it correspond to Briiggen's? Certainly not. My physiog-
nomic type might be different from Robert's. I can sight-read the
score of the transcription for recorder of SC2, and if I try to play
from memory, I can continue for a minute or two, then I stop and
can no longer remember how it goes, while Robert, who can also
play the recorder a bit, has listened to the piece thousands of times
and can recognize it, but could not play it if he tried.
Therefore Briiggen, Robert, and I can recognize S C 2 , but we re-
fer to (or bring into play) three different (different, that is, in terms
of complexity and refinement or definition) physiognomic types.
Can we speak of three "acoustic images" that are equivalent for the
purposes of simple recognition? What is an acoustic image? It is
not enough to say that I recognize Johann Sebastian on the basis of
visual features and SC2 on the basis of acoustic features? The fact
is that Johann Sebastian's physiognomic features are presented to
me all together (even though inspecting them may sometimes take
time), while the acoustic features of the musical composition
are presented to me distributed over time. But our problem, in
the dark room, is not a matter of recognizing SC2 after having
listened to the whole record. That would be like recognizing
Johann Sebastian only after having spent a long time making him
walk backward and forward, smile, speak, and after a police-style
interrogation regarding his past (something that happens only in
2 l 6 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
exceptional circumstances). In order to satisfy my request, Robert
must recognize S C 2 in a fairly short time (perhaps on the basis of a
few random selections). This is a problem we come across very of-
ten, for example, when we switch on the radio and listen to a piece
that we certainly know but cannot identify straight off the bat. If
Robert needs to listen to the whole composition before recognizing
SC2, he has lost even before he has begun, so let him bring me The
Well-Tempered Clavier, and I'll be just as happy, because I'm not
hard to please.
Can we say that the physiognomic schema of S C 2 is no different
from that of the Mona Lisa? I should say not. If I can recognize the
Mona Lisa, it is because I have seen it before; if I have seen it, I
would know how to interpret it verbally (a half-length portrait of a
smiling woman, seen against a landscape...), and even though I am
only a very poor drawer, I could make a sketch of it that, no matter
how rough the sketch was, would still be enough to make the
Mona Lisa distinguishable from Botticelli's Venus. But I can recog-
nize S C 2 even without being able to play so much as the first few
notes. And let it not be said that this is due solely to my or Robert's
incapacity. If we know Traviata, all of us are perfectly capable of
humming a few notes of "Sempre libera degg'io" or "Libiam nei
lieti calici." But you can know Don Giovanni like the back of
your hand, and nevertheless I challenge anyone who is not a pro-
fessional singer to hum "Non si pasce di cibo mortale." Yet as soon
as we hear it, we know instantly that it is the Commendatore
who is singing.
We might be tempted to say that one recognizes a "style." But
apart from the difficulty experienced in trying to define a stylistic
schema (a musicologist can easily tell us what characteristics we
seize on when we identify a piece as Bach and not Beethoven, but
the trouble is that, in identifying the piece, we do not know what
we are identifying), our problem is how we distinguish the second
suite without confusing it with the first. Here I think that even the
musicologist, so good at analyzing the melodic, rhythmic, and har-
monic devices proper to Bach's style, could do no more than refer
us to the stave: S C 2 is that musical individual composed of this and
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 21J
that set of notes, and if the notes are different, then we are dealing
with another composition.
What Robert should instinctively prepare to search for after my
mentioning S C 2 is something of which he possesses not a highly
complex cognitive type (like that of Briiggen) but a partial physiog-
nomic type, like a clue that encourages him with regard to the pos-
sibility, if necessary, of executing a more complex combination
of "pattern recognition skills" (Ellis 1995: 87) and that curiously
enough can also imply the capacity to recognize acoustic features
he was unaware of when he associated a partial type with the
name.
Ellis (1995: 95 ffi) suggests that we have memorized a simple
melodic-rhythmic pattern, the first five notes, for example. I would
say more, that we recognize some compositions not at the begin-
ning but at a certain point, and therefore these five (or twenty) cru-
cial notes could be anywhere, according to the physiognomic type
that each of us has elaborated. In any event we would still be deal-
ing with a truncated response: those few notes "give me the feeling
of confidence that I could execute the piece."5 1
But what happens to people who cannot "carry a tune"? We
must be careful here: I am talking not about clinical cases of tone
deafness but of those people who can recognize a tune but are mod-
erately "off key," and so when they try to hum a few bars, any lis-
teners ask them to stop. People of this type would have in mind (or
in any mnemonic recording apparatus standing in for mind), in
some mysterious way, the first five or twenty notes, even though
they would not be able to reproduce them (either with their voice
or on the ocarina). The case is not unlike that of the lover con-
stantly seeking to call up the image of his beloved; he is never satis-
fied with his evocation, would be absolutely unable to draw her
portrait, and yet as soon as he meets her, he recognizes her. Faced
with the greed of their own desire, all lovers are imaginatively off
key.
The person who cannot carry a tune possesses a minimal schema
of recognition, a feebler version of the one that would allow a great
number of people to draw the silhouette of a mouse, or the outline
2l8 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
of the Italian peninsula, and yet when he is subjected to the stimu-
lus, he recognizes the configuration. Such a person has no idea
what a musical fifth is, nor could he reproduce one with his voice,
but he could recognize one (even without being able to name it as
such) as a known configuration when he hears it.
And so we recognize S C 2 by features that are sometimes
melodic, sometimes rhythmic, and sometimes having to do with
timbre, and on the basis of a "truncated" physiognomic type, in
which pertinency has perhaps been assigned to features wholly ab-
sent from other people's physiognomic type. While a compendious
set of encyclopedic facts (such as knowing that S C 2 is a composi-
tion structured in such and such a way, written by Bach on such
and such a date, etc.) may be of no use for purposes of recognition,
truncated and often entirely idiosyncratic types may be sufficient.
The fact that we often proceed by truncated cognitive types re-
minds one of Peirce's pragmatic maxim (CP 5.9): "In order to
ascertain the meaning of an intellectual conception one should
consider what practical consequences might conceivably result by
necessity from the truth of that conception; and the sum of these
consequences will constitute the entire meaning of the conception."
In fact, in order to know whether to agree with another person's
perceptual judgment This is an execution of SC2 or in order to ver-
ify my own (hazarded after not very many notes of the Prelude), I
would have to know all its remote illative consequences: including
the fact that the piece must continue in a certain way, recognizable
when I listen to the notes. But as far as S C 2 is concerned, it is also
possible that I have always listened only to the "Allemande" and
the "Courante" and that therefore I have no idea (and never will
have one) of what the closing "Gigue" is like. In recognizing, we
simply guess that in all probability the end will be as it should. In
short, we maneuver vague but optative physiognomic schemata.
In these cases the only guarantee is the consensus of the Com-
munity—and too bad if the Community in my mental experiment
was reduced to only two individuals. The series of interpretants
will see to the rest: when the power comes back on, we shall both
be able to read the title of the piece on the record sleeve, and only
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 219
then, via interpretants publicly registered in the encyclopedia, will
the Community tell us that we did not make a mistake.
3.7.10 Some open problems
We have admitted that, for all that it is truncated, I possess a cogni-
tive type of SC2. Is it identical to the nuclear content? I should say
not, because, however rough the nuclear content may be, it should
be possible to interpret it, while we have ascertained that someone
can recognize SC2 without being able to hum so much as a note or
to write the first notes on the stave. Therefore the only interpreta-
tion that this person could provide of the name S C 2 would be
"composition written by Johann Sebastian Bach at first for cello, on
such and such a date...," and we would be dealing with a verbal in-
terpretation. Or else one could show the corresponding score, and
we would be dealing with interpretation by ostension of the graph-
ical interpretation of a sound event. Therefore truncated CTs have
the characteristic of being wholly detached from the content, be it
nuclear or otherwise.5 2
Are there other objects of knowledge that reveal the same phe-
nomenon of detachment?
A case very similar to that of SC2 regards CTs of places, private,
sufficient for subjective recognition, hard to interpret publicly,
wholly detached from the NC. If I were blindfolded and taken to
my hometown, and then left at the corner of a road, with the blind-
fold removed, I would recognize instantly—or fairly quickly—
where I was. I could say the same thing if I were left in Milan,
Bologna, Paris, New York, Chicago, San Francisco, London,
Jerusalem, or Rio de Janeiro, cities I would recognize by the skyline
if nothing else (see Lynch 1966). This eminently visual knowledge
of mine is still private, because it would be hard for me to give
someone a description of my hometown that would enable him to
recognize it in analogous circumstances. What would I say? That it
is a city whose streets are usually parallel, that there is a very high
bell tower in the shape of a pencil and a river that separates the
tower from a citadel? Not enough; the description would not be
220 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
sufficient to identify the place. Sometimes these private CTs are
most vivid; we can tell ourselves what our town is like, without be-
ing able to tell anybody else. It seems that visual experiences are
easier to put into words than musical ones, but while I (if not
Robert) could always interpret S C 2 by whistling the first notes, I
would not be able to interpret for anybody else the shape (unmis-
takable for me) of via Dante in Alessandria (a task that could be
carried out, laboriously, by an architect, a painter, or a photogra-
pher; however, in that case we would be talking not about CT but
MC).
In addition my cognitive type would have nothing to do with the
NC that I have corresponded to the name of the city (which would
be reduced to "Alessandria is a city in Piedmont"). Even in cases in
which the NC includes some curious particular, such as the fact
that in Rome there are the ruins of a great amphitheater or that
New York is a city with lots of skyscrapers, the information would
not make it possible to distinguish Rome from Nimes or New York
from Chicago—nor would it allow me to recognize the fact that I
was in Rome, if I were deposited in a street in the vicinity of Piazza
Navona (something that in reality I could do perfectly well).
One could continue with this typology of dubious cases. I can
easily recognize Sharon Stone when I see her in a film, but I cannot
explain to others how to recognize her (over and beyond saying
that she is a glamorous blonde, but that's not much to go on), and
yet I associate her name with an NC (human being of the female
sex, American actress, starred in Basic Instinct). On the highway I
can easily tell a Lancia from a Volvo, I have an NC associated with
both makes, but I cannot tell anyone how to distinguish them, ex-
cept in a vague fashion.
It is clear that with regard to our way of approaching the objects
of the world (and of talking about them to others), all is not crystal
clear, and not everything goes smoothly. When things do not go at
all, there is no problem, it simply means that someone does not
know something, just as one does not know the meanings of many
words or cannot recognize unfamiliar objects. The problem arises
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 2 2 1
when things should not work and yet in some way they do, as in the
case of the recognition of SC2.
I think we have to stick to a fairly liberal view: for many of our
cognitive experiences, CT and NC coincide; for others, they do not.
I do not think this admission is a surrender. It is only a philosophi-
cal contribution to an ongoing debate. Let us content ourselves for
the time being with clear-cut cases (the mouse, the chair), and let us
ascribe the ambiguous cases to the list of phenomena of which we
still know very little.
3.7.11 From the public CT to that of the artist
A CT is always a private matter, but it becomes public when it is
interpreted as an NC, while a public NC can provide instructions
for the formation of CTs. In a certain sense, therefore, although
CTs are private, they are continuously subjected to public control,
and the Community educates us step by step to match our own to
those of others. The same thing happens with the control of CTs,
as with hasty off-the-cuff assertions. If I say it is raining when my
epidermis is struck by imperceptible particles of humidity, but wa-
ter is not in fact falling from the sky, people will tell me that what I
have perceived is mist and not rain, and how to apply the two
terms correctly when I put my perceptual judgment into words.
CTs become public, because in the course of our education they
are taught us, reviewed, corrected, and enhanced according to the
state of the art as sanctioned by the Community. Our introduction
to the dog begins with someone's having us note that it has four
legs and not two like a hen, and we are encouraged to see its
friendly nature as pertinent; we are invited not to be afraid, to ca-
ress it, and we are warned that it will yelp if we tread on its tail. We
are told very early on that the sun is in reality far bigger than it
seems to the naked eye, and far bigger than we could imagine.
It has been said that the physiognomic types of individuals can
be very private. And yet in communicational interaction even phys-
iognomic types are, so to speak, brought together by chains of
2 2 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
interpretations: it is possible that Mark and I have a different CT of
Johnny, but we usually exchange descriptions of Johnny with other
friends, we remark on his way of laughing, we say that he is stouter
than Robert, we see photographs that we deem a better or worse
likeness of him... In short, we establish (at least with regard to our
private circle of acquaintances or to many public figures) sets of
what we might call iconographic conventions, and the extent to
which these count in the case of public figures emerges from the
fact that we recognize them even in caricatures (the caricature be-
ing the art of accentuating, or even of discovering, the most salient
typical features of a face).
Very private types could belong to artists. A painter has a per-
ception of the difference between colors that is much more refined
than that of an ordinary person, and Michelangelo certainly had a
cognitive type of the human body more complex than a 3-D model.
But this does not at all imply that his type was destined to remain
private and idiolectic. On the contrary, a 3-D model is clearly the
elementary type on which we generally agree when we perceive
a human body; but the continuous interpretation of anatomists,
painters, sculptors, or photographers serves to modify and enrich it.
Only for some, obviously: there is a division of cognitive labor as
there is of linguistic labor, and as there are elaborated and re-
stricted codes, in the same sense in which a chemist has a more ex-
tensive notion of water than ordinary people. Just as in linguistic
communication transactions between more or less restricted or
broadened competences are always being made, so it also happens
in the "trade" in CTs.
This is why it is said that artists enhance our capacity to perceive
the environment. An artist (and this is what the Russian formalists
meant by their concept of defamiliarization) continuously tries to
revise current CTs, as if everything were perceived as a hitherto
unknown object. Cezanne or Renoir trained us to look in a differ-
ent way, in certain circumstances of particular felicitousness or per-
ceptual freshness, at foliage, fruit, or the complexion of a young
girl-
There are lines of resistance in the stimulating field that oppose
Cognitive Types and Nuclear Content I 223
uncontrolled artistic invention (or that oblige the artist to portray
objects not of our world but of a possible world). This is why the
artist's suggestions are not always completely absorbed by the Com-
munity. It would be hard for us to conceive a CT of the female
body inspired by Duchamp's Mariee mise a nu, and yet the work of
artists always tries to call our perceptual schemata into question, if
in no other way than by inviting us to recognize that in certain cir-
cumstances things could also appear to us differently, or that there
are alternative possibilities of schematization, which make some
features of the object pertinent in a provocatively abnormal way
(the skeletal lankiness of bodies, for Giacometti; the uncontrollable
tendencies of the flesh and muscle, for Botero).
I recall an evening in which people were playing parlor games,
including a variant of "statues," in which the onlookers had to
guess which work of art the players were miming. At a certain
point a (well-composed) group of girls presented themselves with
their limbs and faces twisted into distorted positions. Almost every-
body recognized the reference to Demoiselles a"Avignon. If the hu-
man body can interpret Picasso's representation of it, then that
representation had caught certain possibilities of the human body.
Chapter Four
T H E PLATYPUS BETWEEN DICTIONARY
AND ENCYCLOPEDIA
4.1 MOUNTAINS AND MOUNTAINS
As usual, let us imagine a situation. When Sandra tells me she is
going to cross Australia from north to south by car, I tell her that
she must not forget to visit Ayers Rock, which stands in the center
of the continent and is one of the world's many Eighth Wonders. I
add that if, en route between Darwin and Adelaide, she passes
through Alice Springs, she should then head southwest into the
desert until she sees a mountain, hard to miss because it rises in
the center of the plain like Chartres cathedral in the middle of the
Beauce: this is Ayers Rock, a fabulous orographic formation that
changes color according to the time of day and is stunning at sun-
set.
I have given her instructions not only for finding but also for
identifying Ayers Rock, and yet I feel slightly ill at ease, as if I were
deceiving her. And therefore I tell her that while I was telling the
truth when I told her that (ia) Ayers Roc/( is a mountain, I am
nonetheless also telling the truth if at the same time I state that
(iia) Ayers Rock^ is not a mountain. Obviously, Sandra reacts by re-
minding me that a minimum of truth-functional good breeding re-
quires that if (ia) is true, then (iia) must be false, and vice versa.
224
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 225
So I reiterate the difference between NC and MC (in this story,
Sandra has already read this book, apart from this paragraph), and
I explain to her that Ayers Rock displays all the characteristics that
we attribute to mountains, and that if we were asked to divide the
objects we know into mountains and nonmountains, then we
should certainly put Ayers Rock in the first category. It is true that
we are accustomed to recognize a mountain as something that rises
to a great height after being preceded by hilly slopes that get
steadily steeper and steeper, while Ayers Rock rises solitary and
precipitous from the middle of the plain; but the fact that we are
dealing with a curious, atypical mountain should not worry us
more than the fact that the ostrich, insofar as it is a bird, is equally
curious and atypical, without its being perceived as less of a bird for
this reason. Nevertheless, from a scientific point of view, Ayers
Rock is not a mountain, it is a stone: it is a single stone—in other
words, a monolith planted in the ground as if a giant had hurled it
down from the sky. Ayers Rock is a mountain from the point of
view of the CT, but it is not from the point of view of the MC, i.e.,
of a competence definable as petrological or lithological or what
have you.
Sandra understands very well why I did not tell her to proceed
southwest until she saw a stone—because in that case she would
have gone on with her gaze fixed on the ground without looking
up. However, she might say that, as I am in the mood to play with
logical paradoxes, I would do better to rewrite (ia) and (iia) in this
way: (ib) Ayers Roci{ is a mountain and (iib) Ayers Rock^ is not a MOUN-
TAIN. In this way it would be clear that (ib) asserts that Ayers Rock
has the perceptual qualities of a mountain, while (iib) would assert
that it is not a MOUNTAIN in a categorial system. Naturally Sandra
would use her voice to emphasize, with suprasegmental features,
the use of small capitals, precisely to show that terms written in
such characters stand for what compositional semantics calls dictio-
nary properties, which are semantic primitives for some, and which
in any case imply a categorial organization, in the sense of the ex-
pression as used in the preceding chapter.
But at that point she would have me notice a curious paradox.
226 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
The supporters of a dictionary representation maintain that such
representations take account of relations within the language, leav-
ing aside elements of knowledge of the world, while knowledge in
an encyclopedic format presupposes extralinguistic knowledge. In
order to provide a rigorous explanation of the functioning of lan-
guage, the supporters of a dictionary representation maintain that
we must turn to a package of semantic categories that are orga-
nized hierarchically (such as OBJECT, ANIMAL VS. VEGETABLE, MAM-
MAL vs. REPTILE) and that are of such a kind that—even when we
have no knowledge of the world—various inferences can be made,
of the type If mammal, then animal; If this is a mammal, then it is not
a reptile; It is impossible for something to be at once a reptile and not an
animal; If this is a reptile, then it is not a vegetable; and many other
pleasant apothegms that, according to the experts, we habitually
utter when, for example, we realize we have picked up a viper
instead'of an asparagus spear.
Encyclopedic knowledge, on the other hand, would be uncoor-
dinated by nature, with an uncontrollable format, and the encyclo-
pedic content of dog would have to include practically all that is
and could be known about dogs, even details such as the fact that
my sister has a bitch called Best—in short, a knowledge that would
be too much even for Borges's Funes el Memorioso. Naturally it is
not quite like this, because we can consider as encyclopedic knowl-
edge only those items that the Community has in some way regis-
tered publicly (and moreover it is maintained that encyclopedic
competence is shared across sectors, according to a sort of linguistic
division of labor, or activated in different ways and formats accord-
ing to the context). But there is no doubt that, with regard to the
events and objects of this world, not to mention those of other
worlds, there are always new facts to learn, and therefore those
who find the encyclopedic format hard to handle are not wrong.
Nonetheless the curious accident has occurred whereby, given
that the repertoires that succinctly record the properties of terms
are called "dictionaries" while those that indulge in complex de-
scriptions are called "encyclopedias," everybody thinks that dictio-
nary competence is the indispensable one for the use of language.
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 227
Instead, what the story of Ayers Rock tells us is that, in order to
recognize that object and to be able to talk about it every day, the
perceptual (not linguistic) characteristic of appearing like a moun-
tain (on the basis of many factual properties) counts for a very great
deal, while the fact that it is not a MOUNTAIN but a STONE is a datum
reserved only for an elite that shares a vast encyclopedic compe-
tence. Therefore Sandra would point out to me that people, when
speaking plainly, run on encyclopedia mode, while only the learned
turn to the dictionary. Nor would she be wrong.
The whole business could be confirmed in historic terms too. If
we take a look at Hellenistic and medieval encyclopedias, we find
only descriptions that either tell us what something looks like (for
Alexander Neckham, the crocodile was a serpens aquaticus bubalis
infestus, magnae quantitatis) or how something can be found (the
instructions for capturing a basilisk). In general there is an accu-
mulation of largely anecdotal features, such as in the Cambridge
Bestiary: "The cat is called musio because it is traditionally the en-
emy of mice. The more common catus derives from capturare, or—
according to others—because captat, i.e., it sees. It has in fact such
acute sight as to be able to pierce the shadows of the night with
flashing eyes."' When we get to dictionaries such as the one pub-
lished by the Italian Accademia della Crusca in 1 6 1 2 , we find the
definition of cat (entered, with admirable political correctness, in
the feminine form gatta, even though the rest is then written using
the masculine pronoun): "Known animal, kept in houses, owing to
its particular enmity for mice, which it kills." And that's that.
As can be seen, once upon a time there were no dictionary-type
definitions (except for the traditional "rational mortal animal").
The first attempts in this regard are found in the dictionaries of the
perfect languages, such as in the Essay toward a Real Character by
John Wilkins (1668), who attempted to define the furnishings of
the entire universe by genus and differentia, basing himself on the
first attempts at scientific taxonomy. But, after having worked out a
table of 40 major Genera, subdivided into 251 peculiar Differences,
from which he derived 2,030 Species, Wilkins (if we take, for ex-
ample, the classification of "viviparous clawed beasts") managed to
228 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
distinguish the fox from the dog but not the dog from the wolf (see
Eco 1993: 242, fig. 12.2). And then if we want to know what a dog
is and what it does, we have to go to consult the Differences, which
are not presented as dictionary-type primitives but are authentic
encyclopedic descriptions of empirical properties (e.g., rapacious vi-
viparous animals generally have six short, pointed incisors and two
long fangs; the "dog-kind" have an oblong head that distinguishes
them from the "cat-kind," which have a round head; and the dog is
differentiated from the wolf, because the former "is noted for
tameness" and the latter for "wildness and enmity to sheep"). The
dictionary schema is an instrument of classification, not an instru-
ment of definition; it is like the Dewey method of librarianship,
which allows us to identify a given book from among the thou-
sands of shelves in a library, and to infer its subject matter (if we
know the code) but not the specific content.2
Given therefore that scientific taxonomies took on a rough shape
in the seventeenth century and were established organically only
starting from the eighteenth century, we would seem to be led to
the paradoxical conclusion that before then (in the absence of dic-
tionary structures), from the appearance of Homo sapiens up to at
least the seventeenth century, since a dictionary competence did not
exist, no one managed to use his own language decently (Aristotle
and Plato or Descartes and Pascal spoke, but they could not under-
stand each other) and no one managed to translate from one
language to another. Since historical experience contradicts this
inference, one must conclude that, while the absence of a dictionary
competence did not prevent humanity from speaking and under-
standing for millennia, that absence is, if not irrelevant, certainly
not decisive for the purposes of linguistic competence.
Perhaps it would be sufficient to state that the NC is mostly
composed of features of an encyclopedic nature, often disorga-
nized, while forms of dictionary competence appear only in repre-
sentations of MC. But it's not that simple. The authors of the
medieval bestiaries would perhaps fail a zoology exam, but it can-
not be denied that in their own way they were trying to constitute
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 229
categories when they defined the crocodile (in terms of NC) as a
water snake, evidently by taking for granted that this category was
opposed to that of land snakes.
In addition, if there are semiosic primitives, precategorial dis-
tinctions such as that of "animal" (in the sense of animated beings),
when we decide to perceive a mosquito as an animal, we collocate it
(in a rather confused way) in a categorial order, just as we would
put a chicken and an edible mushroom together among "co-
mestible things," thereby opposing them to a rhinoceros or a poiso-
nous mushroom (dangerous things).
4.2 FILES AND DIRECTORIES
Let us try therefore to compare our cognitive processes, from the
first perceptions to the constitution of any knowledge, not necessar-
ily scientific, to the organization of our computer.
We perceive things as sets of properties (a dog is a hairy animal
that has four legs, a tongue that hangs out, and barks, etc.). In order
to recognize or identify things, we construct files (which may be
private or public: a file can be our own work, or it may have been
communicated to us by the Community). As the file is gradually
defined, by our judging similarities or differences, we decide to in-
sert it (or the Community presents it to us as already inserted) in a
given directory. Sometimes, when we need to look something up,
we call the tree of directories up on the screen and, if we have a
vague idea of how the tree is organized, we know that files of a cer-
tain type must be in a given directory. As we continue to gather
data, we can decide to shift a file from one directory to another. But
as the task gets more complex, it becomes necessary to split certain
directories up into subdirectories, and at a certain point we may de-
cide to restructure the entire tree of directories. A scientific taxon-
omy is no more than a tree of directories and subdirectories, and
the only difference between the taxonomies of the seventeenth cen-
tury and those of the nineteenth was that the tree of directories was
simply (simply?) restructured on a series of occasions.
230 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
But this computer-inspired example conceals a trap. The files in
a computer are full (in the sense that they are collections of infor-
mation), while the directories are empty—in other words, they can
be collections of files but, if there are no files, they contain no other
information. In a scientific taxonomy, on the other hand (as has al-
ready been pointed out in Eco 1984, 2.3), when, let's say, the CANIDS
are inserted among the MAMMALS, saying that dogs and wolves are
mammals does not mean only that they are housed in the directory
called MAMMALS: the scientist also knows that MAMMALS (be they
CANIDS or FELIDS) usually reproduce in a similar manner. This
means that the taxonomist cannot open a directory headed, let's say,
CRYPTOTHERIA, and decide to put any old files in there should the
need arise: he must have decided what the characteristics (perhaps
brand-new) of the CRYPTOTHERIA are, so that—on the basis of the
presence of these characteristics in a given animal—he can justify
the insertion of the animal's file in that directory. This ensures that
when the taxonomist says that a certain animal is a MAMMAL, he
knows what general characteristics it possesses, even though he
does not yet know if it looks more like an ox or a dolphin.
Therefore every directory ought to contain a "label" with a series
of data on the common characteristics of the objects described in
its files. (All we need do is think that it is possible, as is already
the case with the files in certain operating systems, to register the
name of a directory not as a simple cipher but as a text: in such
a case, the MAMMALS directory would be registered as MAMMALS
(POSSESSING SUCH AND SUCH REPRODUCTIVE PROPERTIES). A S a matter
of fact, taxonomic terms such as MAMMAL, OVIPAROUS, FISSIPED, or
UNGULATE express a great number of qualities. In the Linnaean
system, names such as Poa bulbata contain all the information
that Pitton de Tournefort was still obliged to list as "Gramen
Xerampelinum, miliacea, praetenui, ramosaque, sparsa canicula,
sive xerampelinum congener, arvense, aestivum, gravem minutis-
simo semine" (see Rossi 1997: 274).
Such a condition is not at all indispensable for a dictionary se-
mantics: if the species of the PRISSIDS were put in the subdirectory of
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 231
the family of the PROSIDS, let's say, and if the PROSIDS belonged to the
order of the PROCEIDS, it would not be necessary to know the prop-
erties possessed by a proceid or a prosid to be able to make (highly
accurate) inferences of the type If this is a prissid, then it is definitely a
prosid, and it is not possible for something to be a prissid and not a pro-
ceid. Unfortunately, while this is the way we reason when perform-
ing exercises in logic (laudable activity), and the way in which a
zoology student who has memorized the book without under-
standing the argument (deplorable activity) attempts to answer an
examination question, it is not the way we reason in order to un-
derstand either the words we use or the concepts that correspond to
them, so it would not be unlikely that, on hearing it said that all
prissids are prosids, somebody might just ask for some supplemen-
tary information.
But even if the dialectic between directory and files can be com-
pared to that between Dictionary and Encyclopedia, or between
categorial knowledge and knowledge by properties, this division is
not homologous with that between NC and MC. We do in fact also
organize directories at the level of NC (by putting cats among the
animals and stones among inanimate objects), but the organiza-
tional criteria are less strict, and so it is all right, and it has been all
right by us for a long time, to put the files on whales in the direc-
tory marked "fish," and when we recognize that Ayers Rock has
many of the properties of mountains, we unthinkingly store it in
the untidy file of mountainous objects, without putting too fine a
point on things.
Therefore by dictionary competence I mean something that lim-
its itself to registering (both in terms of NC and MC) that a given
concept belongs on a certain node in the tree of directories. Ency-
clopedic competence, on the other hand, involves both a knowledge
of the names of the directories and the files and a knowledge of
their contents. The totality of files and directories (those currently
registered and even those that have been deleted and reordered or
rewritten in the course of time) represents what on various occa-
sions I have called Encyclopedia as a regulative idea—the Library
232 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
of Libraries, a postulate of a globality of knowledge that cannot be
realized by any single speaker, a perpetually increasing treasure
most of which has not been explored by the Community.
4.3 WILD CATEGORIZATION
At the level of NC there is a continuous organizing and reordering
of "wild" categories, most of which spring from the recognition of
constant precategorial features. For example, in the Western world
the chicken is considered one of the edible animals while the dog is
not, but in some Asiatic regions the dog is a fully fledged member
of the edible category and is kept around the house much like a
turkey or a pig in the West, in the knowledge that at a certain point
it will have to be eaten.3
But it is in the specialized sector of the MC
that negotiations become more punctilious.
Just think of the notions of mineral, vegetable, or insect. Many
speakers, who would hesitate about recognizing that a certain ani-
mal (the porpoise, for example) is a mammal, would cheerfully ad-
mit that the fly or the flea is an insect. Could it be said that we are
dealing with a zoological category, at first proper to an MC, which
in the course of time has been captured, so to speak, by the NC? I
should say not: this would happen if we noticed that common com-
petence has accepted the idea that cows are mammals (a notion
learned at school), but there is no doubt that people were recog-
nizing insects before taxonomists decided to label a certain class
ARTHROPODS.
This happens because MAMMAL was coined in 1791 as a technical
term, preceded by MAMMALIA (extended for the first time to include
the CETACEANS), in Linnaeus's Systema Naturae of 1758, and it de-
pends on a certain functional criterion that takes the reproductive
system into account. On the contrary, insectus, a Latin caique from
the Greek entoma zoa, meant a "cut" animal: this is an interpreta-
tion of a morphological feature that takes into account the typical
form of these little animals (from the instinctive feeling that those
bodies might be cut and divided where they are joined in a bottle-
neck shape or by rings). The "wild" category of insects still has
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 233
such strength that we commonly give the name insect to many ani-
mals that zoologists do not recognize as such, such as spiders
(which are ARTHROPODS but ARACHNIDS instead of INSECTS).4
In this
way, on the level of NC we might find it odd if someone said that a
spider is not an insect, while on the level of MC the spider is not an
INSECT.
Therefore "insect" is either a semiosic primitive, of a precatego-
rial type, which ordinary speech has presented to naturalists (while
the mammals are a category that, if anything, has been given to or-
dinary speech by naturalists), or it is a wild category in any case. In
categorizing wildly, we group objects by what use they have for us,
by their relation to our survival, by formal analogies, et cetera. Our
indifference in retaining the fact that an animal is a mammal is due
to the fact that the scientific category MAMMAL includes animals
that are not only very different to look at but also very different to
deal with (e.g., there are mammals that we eat and mammals that
eat us), while insects strike us as being more or less morphologi-
cally alike, and all equally noisome.
For the speaker, these wild categories usually sum up, almost
stenographically, a large number of features and also implicitly
contain instructions for identification or retrieval. When Marconi
(1977: 64-65) suggests that, even if we do not know what uranium
is or looks like but are told that it is a mineral, we could probably
identify it when it was showed to us together with an unknown
fruit and an unknown animal, he is referring to the wild category
of minerals, not to MINERALS. In fact, if we asked someone devoid
of any scientific knowledge to tell an ARTHROPOD from a spider, a
millipede, and an orthopedic prosthesis, he would not know what
to do. But when we know (roughly) that uranium is a mineral, we
go to look in the wild directory of minerals, just as when we are
told that Ayers Rock is a mountain, we go to look in the wild di-
rectory of mountains (and if they had told us that it was a stone, we
would have gone to look in a directory where we would not have
found good instructions for its identification).
Now, if we consider categorial (or dictionary) competence by re-
ferring to its scientific model, we have been told that one of the
234 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
characteristics of that competence is that it is composed of indelible
features: if we know that a porpoise is a CETACEAN, a CETACEAN is a
MAMMAL, and a MAMMAL is an ANIMAL, it cannot be said that some-
thing is a porpoise but not an ANIMAL, and if (just to avoid always
using canonical examples) on a certain planet all the porpoises were
robots, the fact that they were not ANIMALS would prevent us from
saying they were porpoises: you can have toy porpoises, pseudopor-
poises, virtual porpoises, but not porpoises. On the other hand, a
folk competence tells us that a porpoise is like a dolphin with a
rounded nose and a triangular dorsal fin (and so on, with regard to
the habitat, habits, intelligence, and edibility of the porpoise), but
any feature could be legitimately deleted, because the cognitive
type does not organize the features hierarchically, nor does it
rigidly fix number (of features) or precedence. We can recognize
porpoises with prognathous or malformed or retrousse snouts and
serrated dorsal fins, porpoises that would not win any porpoise
beauty prizes but are porpoises for all that, just as much as their
better-looking kin.
The features of a scientific taxonomy cannot be deleted, because
they are organized into a series of embedded hyperonyms and hy-
ponyms: if a spider is an ARACHNID, it cannot not be an ARTHROPOD,
otherwise the entire categorial system would collapse; but precisely
because a spider is an ARACHNID, it cannot be an INSECT at the same
time.
Also on the level of NC our knowledge is organized into files
and directories, but the organization is not hierarchical. Let us look
over some features of the definition of mouse examined in 3.4.3:
People think that they are all of the same kind.
People think they live in or near places where people live.
A person could hold one easily in one hand (most people wouldn't
want to hold them).
This means that the mouse file can be put both in the "animals
that live in the home" category (which includes the cat file) and in
the "repugnant animals" category, together with flies and cock-
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 235
roaches (which can also infest the home) as well as caterpillars and
snakes. The same file, depending on the occasion, can be put in sev-
eral directories simultaneously and taken from one to the other ac-
cording to the context. And in fact, Levi-Strauss reminds us that
the Savage Mind proceeds by bricolage, which is a form of patch-
work that does not envisage any hierarchical organization.'
But if this is the case, the file does not necessarily imply the di-
rectory, as in scientific taxonomies; in other words, it is very easy to
deny entailment when entailment is not convenient. Those who
breed charming white mice do not put them in the category of re-
pugnant animals. In Australia, the rabbit is considered a harmful
pest. In certain Chinese markets, people display cages containing
things that they consider delicacies but we perceive as loathsome
rats, and if they were to appear in our lofts, we would be terrified.
On the other hand, chickens have been listed among farmyard ani-
mals for millennia, while that directory (if not already for us, at
least for our descendants) will sooner or later contain only one
species of chicken, known as free-range, while all its kin will be
classified as factory-farmed animals. On the level of MC, a chicken
is a BIRD and cannot not be one, while on the level of NC, a chicken
(a bird up to a point, but certainly less so than an eagle) may or may
not be classified among the farmyard animals.
4.4 INDELIBLE PROPERTIES
Does the wild nature of nonscientific categorizations therefore pre-
vent there being features that cannot be deleted? It does not seem
so, since it has been rightly observed (Violi 1997: 2 . 2 . 2 . 3 ) t n a t s o m e
features appear more resistant than others, and that these indelible
features are not merely categorial labels such as ANIMAL and PHYSI-
CAL OBJECT. In the life of semiosis, we notice that we are also wary
of deleting some "factual" properties that seem more salient and
characterizing than others. A great many people would accept the
idea that a porpoise is not a MAMMAL (we have seen that mammal-
ness is not a feature that belongs to the CT of the porpoise; for cen-
turies it was thought to be a fish) but no matter how little a person
236 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
knows about porpoises, he would find it hard to accept the idea
that porpoises live in trees. How to explain why certain negations
seem more resistant than others?
Violi (1997, 7.2) distinguishes between essential and typical prop-
erties: it is essential that the cat is an animal; it is typical for it to
meow. The second property can be deleted, but the first cannot.
But in that case we are back at the old difference between dictio-
nary and encyclopedic properties. On the contrary, Violi (7.3.1.3)
holds that even functional properties (closely connected to the CT
by virtue of an affordance typical of the object) are indelible, and so
it is hard to say that something is a box while denying that it can
contain objects (if it could not, it would be a fake box).6
Let us examine the following sentences:
(1) Mice are not MAMMALS. This is what in Eco 1976 (3.1.2) I de-
fined as a semiotic judgment, that is, an assertion that confirms or
challenges encyclopedic or dictionary conventions existing within
the bounds of a given language or, better still, an assertion on the
current taxonomic paradigm. Within the bounds of the paradigm
this assertion is certainly false, but many people would be able to
recognize and name a mouse without knowing that (1) is false. It
could be that (1) should be understood as "I assert on the basis of
new factual evidence regarding their reproductive process that
mice can no longer be classed as MAMMALS." A S will be seen in 4.5,
assertions of this kind were in circulation for eighty years regard-
ing the platypus. The proof of their truth was in the first instance
up to the researchers who were carrying out an empirical examina-
tion of the animal's physiology and anatomy. But naturally it would
be enough to change the taxonomic criterion to assert that the
platypus is not a MAMMAL. In any case the assertion (1) does not re-
fer either to the CT or the NC of the mouse; it is not a part of that
area of common competence of which we spoke in 3.5.2. If any-
thing, it is part of the MC: let the zoologists decide what is more or
less worthy of deletion as far as they are concerned.
(2) Mice do not have tails. If the assertion were understood as be-
ing supported by a universal quantifier referring to all the mice in
existence, it would be sufficient to provide at least one mouse with
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I iyj
a tail to falsify it. However, in everyday life, I think it unlikely that
anyone would make such an assertion, which would presuppose
that the speaker had made a previous inspection of all mice (bil-
lions of them) one by one. This utterance should simply be tran-
scribed as "The property of having a tail is not part of the CT of
the mouse or of the NC of mouse." We have seen that NCs are pub-
licly verifiable, and I would say that it would be easy to challenge
assertion (2). Those things we call mice (usually) have a tail; the
stereotype of the mouse has one, as does its prototype, if the proto-
type exists somewhere or other. It seems improbable that someone
would say (2), but it was possible, as we shall see, for someone to say
that the female platypus has no mammae (it was a case of a CT-in-
process). Now, is the property of having a tail cancelable or not? I
think the question is badly put: when a CT is interpreted, all the
properties have the same value at first, also because we still have to
know to what extent the type is really wholly shared by all speak-
ers. The acid test is when a token is recognized. Which brings us to
the next example.
(3) This is a mouse, but it has no tail. It is possible to find a dead
mouse and recognize it despite its mutilation. Our CT of the
mouse also envisages the characteristic tail, and yet this is a cancel-
able property.
(4) This is a mouse, but it is not an animal. Here we must refer
back to what has already been said: the attribution of animality has
nothing to do with ascription to a category; we are dealing with a
perceptual primitive, a precategorial experience. If this is not an
animal, it cannot be a mouse (it must be the usual robot mouse that
is chased through many pages of the philosophy of language by a
robot cat). The property of being an animal is indelible.
(5) This is a mouse, but it has the sinuously cylindrical shape, tapered
at the extremities, of an eel. Granted that someone, without having
to take a philosophy of language exam, were so foolish as to utter
(5) seriously, we would be unlikely to agree. An almost oval shape
slightly tapering toward the nose is part of the indispensable (and
indelible) conditions for recognizing a mouse. The importance
of this gestalt is such that we can be flexible about the tail, and
238 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
flexible even with regard to the presence of the paws. The gestalt of
the mouse, once it is perceived, allows us to deduce the paws and
the tail (//"mouse, then tail).' The presence on the ground of four lit-
tle paws or a tail, on the other hand, allows us to infer the mouse
that is not there only by abduction. In this case, we behave like the
paleontologist who takes a jawbone and reconstructs a cranium,
but precisely because he is referring to a CT, albeit a hypothetical
one, of that prehistoric being. This amounts to saying that, if a 3-D
model is part of a CT, it plays a role so important for recognition
and identification, that it cannot be deleted.
(6) This is a mouse, but it is eighty meters long and weighs eight hun-
dred kilograms. No one can exclude that, after some tinkering with
the genetic code, this assertion might one day be utterable. But in
such a case I would say we would be talking about the appearance
of a new species (we shall call them mice, as opposed to normal
mice^.'It should suffice to think of the different tone with which
the assertion There is a mouse in the kitchen would be uttered de-
pending on whether the reference was to a mousej or a mouse,.
This means that the CT of the mouse also includes standard di-
mensions that, no matter how negotiable, may not go beyond a cer-
tain threshold. Let us recall the question put by Searle (1979), i.e.,
why is it that when we go into a restaurant and ask for a ham-
burger, we do not expect the waiter to serve a hamburger a mile
long enveloped in a plastic cube? It is curious that not long after the
formulation of this example, an American restaurant chain pre-
pared a manual for its chefs containing specifications regarding the
size, weight, cooking times, and condiments required for a stan-
dard hamburger; this was not in reply to Searle but because it was
economically and industrially important to make public the stan-
dard concept of hamburger. Naturally this manual was the elabo-
ration not only of a CT but of an MC of the term hamburger:
however, it established the nuclear conditions for recognizing
something as a hamburger, if not with regard to specifications of
weight and cooking times at least with regard to its dimensions and
approximate consistency. This is therefore why a property such as
standard size seems, if not indelible, at least hard to delete. Of
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 239
course, saying that there is an eight-hundred-kilogram mouse is
less of a problem than saying there is a mouse that is not an animal,
but while in order to justify the first statement, it has to be admit-
ted that we are dealing with a fake mouse, to justify the second, it is
necessary at the very least to postulate a wholly improbable world,
and so this mouse, if it is not fake, must be at least fictional or ficti-
tious.
(7) This is an elephant, but it has no trunk- Here we have to distin-
guish between the proposition This is an elephant, but it no longer
has a trunk (similar to the case of the mouse without a tail) and the
assertion that a given animal is an elephant that nonetheless has no
trunk but a snout made in some other way (like the snout of a kan-
garoo or the beak of an albatross, let's say). I think that each of us
would react by maintaining that in such a case we are dealing no
longer with an elephant but with some other animal. We can imag-
ine a breed of mouse without a tail, but the idea of a breed of ele-
phant without a trunk is unconvincing. This case is in fact similar
to (5). The trunk is part of the characteristic gestalt of the elephant
(more so than the tusks; don't ask me why, but try to draw an ele-
phant with its trunk and no tusks, and other people will usually
recognize it; but if you draw a beast with tusks and the round snout
of the porpoise, no one will say you have drawn an elephant). At
best we can say that the presence of the trunk is not sufficient for
the recognition of an elephant, because the trunk could also belong
to a mammoth, but there is no doubt that its absence eliminates the
elephant. It is an indelible property.
This example suggests that cancelable properties are sufficient
conditions for recognition (such as scratching a match to produce
combustion), while indelible properties are seen as necessary condi-
tions (there can be no combustion in the absence of oxygen). The
difference is that in physics or chemistry we can ascertain experi-
mentally which conditions are really necessary, while in our case
the necessity of these conditions depends on many perceptual and
cultural factors. It seems intuitive that an animal designed by na-
ture without a trunk is no longer what we have decided to call an
elephant. And what if nature had designed a rhinoceros without
24O / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
horns? I think we would have to assign it to another species and
call it by another name, for the sake of etymology if nothing else.
And yet I suspect that we would be more indulgent and flexible
over the matter of the rhinoceros than that of the elephant. So
much so, that while the Indian rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis,
probably the species Marco Polo saw) has only one horn, the
African rhino (Diceros bicornis, in fact) has two. And yet, for any-
body who is not a zoologist or a hunter, while the elephant's trunk
is crucial, the rhinoceros's horns count for much less.
The recognition of a property as indelible depends on the history
of our perceptual experiences. The zebra's stripes strike us as in-
delible properties, but it would be sufficient if evolution had pro-
duced breeds of horse or ass with striped coats; the stripes would
become all too cancelable, because we would have shifted our at-
tention to some other characterizing feature. And perhaps the same
thing would happen in a universe in which all quadrupeds had
trunks. In that case—perhaps—the elephant's tusks would become
indelible.
An entire iconography in the cinema and in books convinced us
that feather headdresses were an indelible property for the recogni-
tion of an American Indian; and then along came John Ford, who
in Stagecoach had the iconographic courage to have Geronimo and
his braves suddenly appear on the heights of the bluff without
feathers, and the entire cinema audience was on the edge of their
seats waiting for the attack on the stagecoach after having recog-
nized the redskins (in a black-and-white film) perfectly well. We
might say that Ford had probably identified other indelible fea-
tures that basically determined our CT: painted cheeks, that gritty
impassiveness, the gaze, who knows.8
However, he managed to
convince us by constructing a context (a network of intertextual
references and a system of expectations capable of rendering
some physiognomic features, and the position on the heights, and
the presence of a certain type of weapons and clothing) that was
more relevant than the presence of the feathers. That it is the con-
text that establishes the relevant properties has already been
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 241
pointed out in Eco (1979 and 1994)- I therefore agree with Violi
(1997, 9.2.1. and 10.3.3.) when in the end she assigns the function of
selecting the indelible properties to the contexts. The essential
properties therefore become the ones that we must know about if,
in a certain context, we wish to keep the discourse open, and that
can be denied only on pain of renegotiating the meaning of the
terms we are using.
On occasion the context can be common to an epoch and a cul-
ture, and it is only in such cases that dictionary properties, which
refer to the way in which that culture has classified the objects it
knows, seem indelible. But even then things often proceed in a
complex way, accompanied by many coups de theatre. Which is all
reconfirmed for us by what the reader has probably been waiting
for for some time, and that is the real story of the platypus.
4.5 T H E REAL STORY OF THE PLATYPUS9
4.5.1 Water mole or duck-billed platypus
In 1798, a naturalist called Dobson sent the British Museum a
stuffed animal that the Australian colonists called the "water mole"
or "duck-billed platypus." From an account published by Collins in
1802,1 0
a similar animal had been found in November 1797 on the
shores of a lake near Hawkesbury. It was the size of a mole, with
little eyes; the front feet had four claws and were united by a mem-
brane larger than the one that united the claws of the hind feet. It
had a tail and the beak of a duck; it swam with its feet, which it
also used to dig out its lair. It was certainly an amphibian type.
Collins's text was accompanied by a most inaccurate drawing: the
animal looks more like a seal, a whale, or a dolphin, as if, knowing
that it swam, the artist had applied the generic CT of a marine an-
imal to it at first sight. Or perhaps the source is another. According
to Gould (1991: 19), in the course of a voyage to Australia in 1793,
Captain Bligh (of Bounty fame) had discovered (and eaten, roasted,
with gusto) an echidna. Now we know that the echidna is cousin
germane to the platypus, with whom it shares the privilege of being
242 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
a MONOTREME. Bligh drew it with great care, and the drawing was
published in 1802. It looks very like Collins's platypus. I don't
know if Collins had seen Bligh's drawing or not, but if he had seen
it, so much the better. The conclusion would seem to be that both
artists caught some common generic features of two different ani-
mals at the expense of specific features (Collins's platypus does not
have a convincing beak and seems more suited for eating ants, like
the echidna).
Let's get back to the stuffed platypus, which reached London
and was described in 1799 by George Shaw as Platypus anatinus.u
Shaw (who was able to examine only the skin, not the internal or-
gans) betrayed various signs of amazement and puzzlement: at first
he thought a duck's beak had been grafted onto the head of a
quadruped. The use of "graft" was no accident. The skin had ar-
rived after crossing the Indian Ocean, and it was known at the time
that certain diabolical Chinese taxidermists were extremely good at
grafting, for example, fish tails onto monkeys' bodies in order to
create mermaidlike monsters. Shaw therefore had some reason to
opine at first that he was faced with a bogus creature made by arti-
ficial means, but he later admitted he could find no sign of fraud.
His reaction is interesting: the animal was unknown; he had no
way of recognizing it, and he would have preferred to believe it did
not exist. But since he was a man of science, he went on. And right
from the start he swithered between Dictionary and Encyclopedia.
In order to understand what was before his eyes, he tried right
away to classify it: the platypus seemed to him to represent a new
and singular genus that, in the Linnaean organization of the
QUADRUPEDS, should be placed in the order of the BRUTA alongside
the order of the MYRMECOPHAGA. After that, he left the categories
and moved on to properties. He described the shape of the body,
the fur, tail, beak, spur, color, size (13 inches), feet, jaw, and nostrils.
He found no teeth and noted that the tongue of his exemplar was
missing. He saw something that seemed like eyes to him, but they
were too small, and there was too much fur over them to make for
good vision, which was why he thought they were like a mole's
eyes. He said they might have been suited to aquatic life and sur-
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 243
mised that the creature fed on water plants and animals. He quoted
Buffon: Everything that is possible for Nature to produce, has in
fact been produced.
In 1800, Shaw again took up the description, with renewed
doubts and hesitation, as he did not dare include the animal among
the QUADRUPEDS.'" He said he had news of another two specimens
sent by the governor of New Holland, Hunter, to Joseph Banks,
which ought to have dispelled all suspicion of fraud. These speci-
mens (and it seems that Hunter had sent another to the Newcastle
Literary and Philosophical Society) were later described by Bewick
in an addendum to the fourth edition of his General History of
Quadrupeds (Newcastle: Berwick, 1824) as a unique animal with
the triple nature of a fish, a bird, and a quadruped... Bewick's view
was that it ought not to be collocated according to the standard
methods of classification, but that it was sufficient to provide a de-
scription of these curious animals exactly as they were when he re-
ceived them. And although this is followed by a picture entitled
"An amphibious animal," we can see that Bewick refused to clas-
sify it as FISH, BIRD, or QUADRUPED, although he identified morpho-
logical features of fish, birds, and quadrupeds.
Finally exemplars complete with internal organs began to arrive
preserved in alcohol. But still in 1800 the German Blumenbach re-
ceived another stuffed specimen (he was to have two in alcohol
only the following year), and he named it Ornithorhynchus para-
doxus. The choice of adjective is curious; it does not correspond to
taxonomic usage; it tells us that Blumenbach was trying to catego-
rize something as uncategorizable. After him the name Ornith-
orhynchus anatinus was to prevail (and we should note that this is
a dictionary name, but one that depends on an encyclopedic de-
scription, since it means "with a bird's beak similar to that of a
duck").
In 1802, the specimens in alcohol (male and female) that Blu-
menbach had also seen were described by Home,1 3
who also said
that the animal did not swim on the surface but came up for
air, like the turtle. Since he was faced with a furry quadruped,
Home immediately thought of a MAMMAL. But a MAMMAL must
244 I K A N T A N D T H E
P L A T Y P U S
have mammary glands with nipples. Now, not only does the female
platypus not possess this property, but also, instead of forming a
uterus, the oviduct opens out into a cloaca, as in BIRDS and REPTILES,
that is, it serves as urinary tract and rectum as well as for reproduc-
tive purposes. Home was an anatomist, not a taxonomist, and
therefore he did not bother overmuch about classifying, limiting
himself to describing what he saw. But the analogy with the repro-
ductive organs of BIRDS and REPTILES could hardly fail to make him
think the platypus was OVIPAROUS, or perhaps merely oviparous (as
we now know, it is oviparous, but it is not OVIPAROUS), and he de-
cided that it might be ovi-viviparous: the eggs were formed inside
the mother's body but then dissolved. Home found a supporter for
his hypothesis in the anatomist Richard Owen, but by 1819 he was
inclined toward viviparity (and this hypothesis usually crops up
every time people reflect on the paradox of a furry animal born
from an egg).
Home also found that the platypus resembled the echidna, al-
ready described by Shaw in 1792. But two similar animals ought to
refer back to a common genus, and he guessed it might be that of
Ornithorhynchus hystrix. Apart from that he expatiated at some
length on the spur on the hind foot of the male, on the smooth beak
and the rest of the body covered with fur, on the wrinkly tongue
that served in lieu of teeth, on the penis suited for the passage of
sperm, on the external orifice of the penis subdivided into various
apertures, so that the sperm might be spread over a wide area, et
cetera. At the end he spoke of a "tribe" that was certainly related to
BIRDS and AMPHIBIANS, thereby putting forward, before Darwin, an
idea very close to that of the evolutionary relation.
4.5.2 Mammae without nipples
In 1803, the protoevolutionist Etienne Geoffroy de Saint-Hilaire
created the category of the MONOTREMES (and here too the term ex-
presses a property: "with a single orifice"). He did not know yet
where to put these animals, but assumed they were oviparous. Six
years later, Lamarck created a new class, the PROTOTHERIA, saying
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 245
they were not MAMMALS, because they had no mammary glands,
and were probably oviparous; they were not birds, because they
had no wings, and they were not reptiles, because they had a heart
with four chambers.1 4
If a class were to define an essence, we would
have here two fine cases of pure nominalism. But at this point the
need to categorize gave free play to the imagination of men of sci-
ence: in 1 8 1 1 , Illiger was talking of REPTANTIA, intermediates be-
tween REPTILES and MAMMALS; in 1 8 1 2 , Blainville was talking of
MAMMALS in the order of the ORNITHODELPHIA.
It is clear that it is the properties that decide whether the animal
is assigned to one class or the other, and some people were already
arguing that as a newborn creature with a beak cannot suckle milk,
we ought to forget about MAMMALS. But the fact is that even a hy-
pothesis about the class drives one to seek out or overlook some
properties, or even to disregard them.
A case in point would be the business of the mammary glands,
which were discovered in 1824 by the German anatomist Meckel.
They are very large, practically covering the whole body from the
front to the hind limbs, but they are visible only when the creature
is nursing its young, after which their size is reduced, and this ex-
plains why they had not been previously identified.
Is an animal with mammae a MAMMAL? Yes, if it also has
nipples, but the female platypus does not have these, not to men-
tion the male. Instead it has porelike glands on the surface, rather
like sweat glands that secrete milk. Today we know that this is how
it is, and that the young take milk by licking, but Saint-Hilaire was
not all wrong in refusing to see these organs as mammae, also
because he was firmly convinced that the MONOTREMES were
OVIPAROUS and could therefore not be MAMMALS. He considered the
glands seen by Meckel as something like the glands on the flanks of
the shrew, which secrete a substance for attracting a partner during
the mating season. Perhaps they were glands that secreted a per-
fume, or a substance that made the fur waterproof, or something
like the so-called mammary glands of seals and whales, which se-
crete not milk but a mucus that clots in the water and serves as
food for their young.
246 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
But Owen, a supporter of the ovoviviparous hypothesis, sus-
pended that secretion in alcohol and obtained something that
seemed milk and not mucus. Saint-Hilaire did not give in. The
reproductive apparatus was that of an OVIPAROUS animal; an
OVIPAROUS animal can only produce an egg; an animal born from an
egg is not breast-fed. In 1829, given that the MONOTREMES could not
be MAMMALS; could not be birds, because they had neither wings
nor feathers; could not be REPTILES, because they were warm-
blooded; and, with their lungs sheathed in a pleura and separated
from the abdomen by a diaphragm, could not even be FISH, Saint-
Hilaire decided that it was necessary to invent for them a fifth cat-
egory of VERTEBRATES (note that in those days AMPHIBIANS did not
yet constitute a class in themselves and were normally classified
among the REPTILES).
In doing this, Saint-Hilaire was appealing to a principle that
strikes me as very important. Taxonomies, he said, are not just
ways of ordering, they are guides to action. If we put the MONO-
TREMES among the MAMMALS, the question may be considered
settled, while if we put them to one side, we are obliged to go in
search of new properties. In a certain sense Saint-Hilaire was
proposing the creation of an "open" genus, so as to avoid making a
clumsy classification of the unknown object, a type that must stand
as a stimulus to conjecture. And therefore he stubbornly waited for
those eggs that had not yet been discovered but that sooner or later
had to appear.
4.5.3 A la recherche de l'oeuf perdu
As we now know, Saint-Hilaire lost the battle of the mammae (and
therefore the platypus was to be a MAMMAL, although it seems ill-
at-ease sitting there all alone with only the echidna for company in
the jump seat reserved for the monotremes), but he won the battle
of the eggs.
As early as 1 8 1 7 , John Jameson had made mention of the eggs in
a letter from Sydney. The datum was not certain, but in 1824 Saint-
Hilaire took it as proven. It is not easy to see a platypus while it is
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 247
laying eggs (one supposes it does so in private, in the depths of a
burrow inaccessible to human explorers), and so one puts one's
trust in those who ought to know more about it, in natives. Patrick
Hill wrote in 1882 that "Cookoogong, a native, chief of the Boorah-
Boorah tribe, says that they all know that this animal lays two eggs,
of the size, color and shape of hen's eggs." Today we know that the
eggs are tiny, one third of an inch long: either Cookoogong was
wrong about the size, or he expressed himself badly in English, or
Hill did not understand his language. Nor can we exclude the pos-
sibility that the aborigine chief had lied in order to please the ex-
plorer.
In 1829, new information reached Saint-Hilaire: someone had
seen some eggs, laid in a hole in the sand, this time shaped like the
eggs of a bird, snake, or lizard. He also received a drawing, and
therefore his informers might really have seen the eggs. Unfortu-
nately it is now thought that these were probably the eggs of a
turtle, Chelodina longicollis. But Saint-Hilaire maintained that eggs
of that size could not pass through the birth canal of a female platy-
pus—and he was right, but for the wrong reasons, because he did
not take into account that the eggs found in the sand had probably
been in an advanced phase of development.
In 1 8 3 1 , Lieutenant Maule opened some burrows and found
eggshells. The opponents of oviparity said the shells were excre-
ment covered with urinary salts such that occur in birds, seeing
that both urine and feces are expelled through the same orifice. In
1834, Doctor George Bennet, a supporter of viviparity, led some
native informers into making contradictions on the subject of the
eggs: he drew an oval egg, and they told him it was a Mullagong
egg, then he drew a round one, and they repeated that it was the
cabango (egg) of the Mullagong. However, they then said that the
newborn animal "tumbled down." You don't tumble down out of
an egg, but from the womb. Bennett admitted that the natives
could not speak English well, but who knows what he asked them
and what they understood, who knows what his ovals and circles
were like. Better a Gavagai than a Mullagong.
In 1865, Richard Owen (of the anti-egg party) received a letter
248 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
from a certain Nicholson sent in September 1864, which said how
ten months previously a female had been captured and given to the
district Gold-receiver. This person had put the animal in a cage,
where on the following morning he found two eggs, this time
about the size of a crow's egg, soft and without a calcareous shell.
Nicholson said he had seen them, but two days later someone
threw them away and killed the animal (finding in the belly many
of what his informers called "eggs" but may have been ova). A sub-
sequent letter from the Gold-receiver seems to confirm this ac-
count. Owen published the two letters but wondered what the two
alleged eggs contained. If they had been opened and an embryo or
at least a yolk had been seen, if someone had put them in a bottle of
alcohol... But alas, nothing more was known about this matter.
Perhaps it was all the effect of a miscarriage brought on by fright.
Burrell (1927: 44) had to admit that Owen—whose behavior was
that of a prudent scientist—was right; Burrell moreover reasoned
that the eggs could not have been the size of any bird definable as a
crow, and suggested that it might have been a prank on the part of
some wag who had slipped bird eggs into the cage.
The debate continued in the scientific journals for many years
after that, and it was only in 1884 (about eighty-six years after the
discovery of the animal) that W. H. Caldwell, who had gone to
Australia to carry out research on the spot, was to send a celebrated
telegram to the University of Sydney: "Monotremes oviparous,
ovum meroblastic" (where the second datum establishes that the
cells of the embryo divide in a way typical of reptiles and birds).
End of argument. The MONOTREMES were MAMMALS and ovip-
arous.
4.6 CONTRACTING
4.6.1. Eighty years of negotiations
What is the moral of the story? In the first instance, we might say
that this is a splendid example of how observation sentences can be
made only in the light of a conceptual framework or of a theory
that gives them a sense, in other words, that the first attempt to un-
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 249
derstand what is seen is to consider the experience in relation to a
previous categorial system (as in the case of Marco Polo and the
rhinoceros). But at the same time we would have to say, again as in
the case of Marco Polo, that when observations challenge the cate-
gorial framework, attempts are made to adjust the framework. In
this way we progress on a parallel course, readjusting the categorial
framework according to the new observation sentences and recog-
nizing as real those observation sentences that are in accordance
with the assumed categorial framework. As we gradually catego-
rize, we await the identification of new properties (no doubt in the
form of a disordered encyclopedia); as properties are gradually
found, we attempt to reestablish the categorial structure. But every
hypothesis regarding the categorial framework to be assumed in-
fluences the way we make observation sentences and acknowledge
them to be valid (with the result that those who would have the
platypus a mammal do not search for its eggs, or they refuse to rec-
ognize eggs when they appear, while those who would have the
platypus oviparous refuse to acknowledge either the mammae or
the milk). This is the dialectic both of cognition and understand-
ing, that is, of understanding and knowledge.
But is this conclusion sufficient? In point of fact, someone finally
showed that there were both mammae and eggs. We might say
that, given two competing theories, both won the day, obliging re-
searchers in the field to look for something that the theory required
to be there, and that if one academic faction had prevailed over an-
other (because this is the mechanism that comes into play even
when scientific theories are compared), perhaps neither the mam-
mae nor the eggs would ever have been seen. But the fact remains
that in the end both mammae and eggs were seen, so that today it
seems hard to deny that the platypus nurses its young and, notwith-
standing this, also lays eggs.
The story of the platypus therefore serves to demonstrate that
in the final instance facts prevail over theories (and, as Peirce
wished, the Torch of Truth will in any case be passed on from hand
to hand despite the difficulties). But, judging by the literature on
the argument in question, we still have not stopped discovering
25O / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
many unsuspected properties of the platypus, and one might say
that this happens because the winning theory required that the an-
imal be grouped with the mammals. Peirce would put our minds at
rest: all we need do is wait, and in the end the Community will find
a point of consensus.
But remember Shaw's decision of 1799: it might be possible to
assign the unknown animal to some class, but for the moment let
us describe what can be seen. And what naturalists knew about the
platypus, even before deciding on what class to put it in and, we
note, as the debate about this wore on, was that it was a strange
thing, certainly an animal, which could be recognized according to
some instructions for its identification (beak, beaver tail, webbed
feet, etc.).
For over eighty years, the naturalists could agree on nothing, ex-
cept that they were talking about that creature made in such and
such a fashion, specimens of which were gradually identified. That
creature might or might not be MAMMAL, BIRD, or REPTILE, without
its ever ceasing to be that double-damned beast that, as Lesson ob-
served in 1839, had set itself athwart the path of taxonomy to prove
its fallaciousness.
The story of the platypus is the story of a long negotiation, and
in this sense it is an exemplary tale. But the negotiation had a basis,
and this was that the platypus seemed similar to a beaver, a duck,
and a mole, but not to a cat, an elephant, or an ostrich. If it is nec-
essary to yield to the evidence that perception has an iconic content,
the story of the platypus tells us so. Anyone who saw one, or a
drawing of one, or a stuffed specimen, or one preserved in spirit,
would refer back to a common CT.
There were eighty-odd years of negotiation, but the negotiations
always revolved around resistances and the grain of the continuum.
Given these resistances, the decision, certainly contractual in na-
ture, to acknowledge that certain features were undeniable, was
obligatory. At first, and for some decades after, people were pre-
pared to delete everything about the platypus: that it was a MAM-
MAL or OVIPAROUS, that it had mammae or not, but certainly not the
property of being the animal that was made in such and such a
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 251
fashion and that someone found in Australia. And, while they were
arguing, everybody knew they were referring to the same CT. Pro-
posals regarding the MC were different, but negotiations were un-
derpinned by an NC.
That the beak could not be deleted (first and foremost because it
should not have been there) is revealed by the names with which
the animal was indicated, both in ordinary and scientific language,
from the beginning and throughout the course of the debate: Duck-
billed platypus, Schnabeltier, Ornitorinco.
4.6.2 Hjelmslev vs. Peirce
I have long feared that the semiotic approach adopted in my Theory
of Semiotics suffered from syncretism. What did it mean to try, as I
did, to combine the structuralist perspective of Hjelmslev with the
cognitive-interpretative semiotics of Peirce? The former shows us
how our semantic (and therefore conceptual) competence is of a
categorial type, based on a segmentation of the continuum by virtue
of which the form of the content presents itself structured in the
form of opposition and difference. We tell a sheep from a horse by
the presence or absence of some dictionary markers, such as OVINE
or EQUINE, and Hjelmslev suggests that this organization of content
imposes a vision of the world.
But such an organization of content either assumes these mark-
ers as primitives not open to further interpretation (and therefore it
does not tell us the properties of an equid or an ovine), or it de-
mands that these components be interpreted in their turn. Alas,
when we enter the phase of interpretation, the rigid structural or-
ganization dissolves in the network of encyclopedic properties,
arranged along the potentially infinite thread of unlimited semio-
sis. How is it possible for the two points of view to coexist?
The result of the preceding reflections is that they must coexist,
because if we choose one of them only, we cannot account for our
way of knowing and expressing what we know. It is indispensable
to make them coexist on a theoretical level, because, effectively
speaking, on the level of our cognitive experiences we proceed so
252 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
that we run—if the expression does not seem too reductive—with
the hare and hunt with the hounds. The unstable equilibrium of
this coexistence is not (theoretically) syncretistic, because it is on the
basis of this happily unstable equilibrium that our understanding
proceeds.
And this is why the categorial moment and the observational
moment do not oppose each other as irreconcilable ways of under-
standing, nor are they juxtaposed through syncretism: they are two
complementary ways of considering our competence, precisely be-
cause, at least at the "auroral" moment of understanding (when the
Dynamical Object is a terminus a quo), they imply each other recip-
rocally.
Now I shall consider a possible objection. We consider taxa (let's
say MAMMALS, or BIRDS) as cultural constructs insofar as they sum
up observation sentences like "this animal nurses its young" or
"this animal lays eggs." But why do we consider the presence or ab-
sence of mammal or eggs as facts to be simply observed? As if rec-
ognizing something as an egg rather than as an ovum, or deciding
whether something is milk or mucus, does not depend on a struc-
tured system of concepts, only within which something is or is not
an egg. In structural semantics, do we not have the oppositional
analysis of properties, such as hard/soft, to distinguish a chair from
an armchair?
The fact is that the constitution of a system of taxa is based pre-
cisely on the abstractive capacity to group as far as possible accord-
ing to highly comprehensive classifications (and this is precisely
why it is hard on a folk level of experience to decide that a giraffe
and a whale are both mammals), while no structural semantics has
ever managed to constitute a total system of opposites, one that ac-
counts for all our knowledge and all the uses of language, a system
within which there is a precise place for the egg and the spinal col-
umn, the scent of violets and climbing. On the contrary, for illus-
trative purposes we are always limited to highly restricted fields,
such as furniture to sit down on or parental relationships. This does
not exclude the possibility of our constructing one day (in theory) a
global system of content (nor does it exclude the existence of such a
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 253
system in the Divine Mind). All it tells us is that (precisely because,
as Kant used to say, empirical concepts can never exhaust all their
determinations) we can proceed only by temporary settlements and
successive corrections.
Even the observation sentence This is an egg depends on cultural
conventions. But, though egg and mammal are both concepts that
spring from a cultural segmentation of the content, and though the
very concept of mammal also takes account of experiential data,
there is a difference in the proximity of the construction of the con-
cept and perceptual experience (and it is on this that the difference
between NC and MC is based).
When we say that, in order to decide whether an animal is a
MAMMAL or not, we have to fall back on a system of cultural con-
ventions (or, as we have seen, reconstruct one), while, in order to
decide if something is an egg, we intuitively put our faith in per-
ception and an elementary knowledge of the language being used,
we are saying something that goes beyond intuitive obviousness. Of
course if someone has not been trained to apply the word egg to a
certain CT (which already considers the form, the presence of yolk
and albumen, the presupposition that if this object is sat on for the
right amount of time, then a living creature might be hatched from
it), there will be no agreement on the recognition of an egg. There-
fore perceptual consensus too always springs from a prior cultural
agreement, no matter how vague or folk it might be.1 5
And this
confirms what I was trying to say shortly before, that in the process
of understanding, the structural moment and the interpretative
moment alternate and complement each other step by step. Never-
theless it cannot be denied that, in defining an egg as such, the tes-
timony of the senses prevails, while in order to define a mammal as
such, what prevails is a knowledge of classifications and our agree-
ment on a given taxonomic system.
When we go on to refine perceptual judgments, and there is a
clash about whether something is milk or mucus, it is necessary to
treat the perceptual experience in cultural terms too and to decide
which criteria and chemical classifications allow us to distinguish
milk from mucus. But yet again we have evidence of an oscillation
254 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
and a constant complementarity of our two ways of understanding
the world. At a given moment even the common CT that would
have allowed Saint-Hilaire to recognize something as milk had to
give way to an MC already imbued with structured oppositions, on
the basis of which it was inevitable that Meckel and Owen would
emerge victorious.
4.6.3 Where does the amorphous continuum lie?
All this brings us back to the opposition between the systematic, or
holistic, pressure of a system of propositions and the possibility of
observation sentences dependent on perceptual experience.
The postulating of a perceptual semiotics ought to give rise
again to the rift between those who maintain that we give form to
an amorphous continuum, and that this form is a cultural construct,
and those who maintain, on the other hand, that what we know
about the environment is determined by characteristics of the envi-
ronment itself, from which we take the salient information it offers
us sponte propria.
It seems obvious that even an observation sentence such as It's
raining cannot be understood, and judged true or false, if not
within a system of linguistic conventions on the basis of which we
distinguish the meaning of rain from that of mist and dew, and that
therefore the concept of "rain" depends not only on some lexical
conventions but also on a coherent system of propositions regard-
ing atmospheric phenomena. To use a formula that Putnam attrib-
utes to West Churchman, who attributed it to A. E. Singer, Jr., who
in his turn meant it to be an efficacious condensation of James's
thought (Putnam 1992: 20), "knowledge of facts presupposes
knowledge of theories, knowledge of theories presupposes knowl-
edge of facts." However, the meaning of rain does not depend on
the chemical notion of water; otherwise the unlearned could not as-
sert that it is raining, and each one of us would assert this falsely in
the case of "acid rain," in which God only knows what is falling
from the sky. In the same way, in order to observe that it is sunny,
or that there is a full moon, it is certainly necessary to share a sort of
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 255
segmentation, albeit an ingenuous one, of the astronomic contin-
uum, but it is not indispensable to know the astrophysical distinc-
tion between star and planet.
An ingenuous segmentation of the continuum can also survive
within a system of interconnected notions that actually denies it:
this is why we have no problem in asserting that the sun rises,
when in the light of the system of notions upon which our knowl-
edge is based, we ought to know that the sun does not move in that
way.
Let us try to imagine an imaginary debate between Galileo, one
of his Ptolemaic adversaries, and someone who prefers to keep one
foot in both camps, such as Tycho Brahe, Kepler, or Newton. I
don't think we need an enormous amount of imagination to as-
sume that all the participants will agree on the fact that at a given
moment they can see the sun or the moon in the sky, that both bod-
ies seem circular in shape and not square, and that they illuminate
over Arcetri something that everyone can recognize as trees.
Nonetheless, within diverse systems of propositions, movement,
distances, functions of the sun and the moon, notions such as mass,
epicycle, deferent, gravity, or gravitation not only assume a differ-
ent value but also can be acknowledged or refuted. However, even
if each debater has a different conceptual frame of reference, all of
them perceive some objects and phenomena in the same way.
For the heliocentrists the sun's movement is apparent, whereas
for their opponents it is real. But this difference is relevant with re-
spect to a coherent system of propositions regarding the universe,
not with respect to the observation sentence upon which both par-
ties have agreed.
It is one thing to ask whether everybody sees an eclipse of the
moon and another to talk about the movement of the heavenly
bodies that produce the perception of the eclipse. The first problem
concerns the way in which we form a perceptual judgment (which
despite its being dependent on the structure of our cognitive appa-
ratus must nonetheless account for the manifold of sensation),
while the second concerns a system of propositions (for Kant, a sys-
tem of judgments based on experience) that is certainly influenced
256 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
by internal structural relations. When we talk of holism, we mean
the solidarity of a system of propositions; when instead we talk of
perception, even though we can presume that it is influenced by a
system of propositions that create a series of expectations, we are
talking about observation sentences that must in some way take
account of what the environment is proposing to us in an immedi-
ate sense.
I am well aware that advocating the existence of observation
sentences independent of a general system of propositions was said
by Davidson to be the third dogma of empiricism; but we cannot
ignore the evidence that it is easier to negotiate (in a very short
time) our assent to the sentence Watch out, because there is a step
than to the sentence that expresses the second law of thermody-
namics. The difference is that in the first case I immediately run a
check on perceptual bases (the concept of step is an "empirical con-
cept").'Thus in the story I told in 3.5.1, Gabriel and Belphagor
might have had very different notions regarding virtue, but both
were able to tell the sexual difference between Joseph and Mary.
Therefore, even if we admit that every cultural system and every
linguistic system upon which it rests segments the continuum of ex-
perience in its own way (Davidson would talk of a "conceptual
schema"), this does not alter the fact that the continuum organized
by systems of propositions already offers itself according to a grain
that provides directives for intersubjectively homogeneous percep-
tion, even between subjects that refer to different systems of propo-
sitions. The segmentation of the continuum brought into being by a
system of propositions and categories in some way takes into ac-
count the fact that that continuum is no longer entirely amorphous;
in other words, while it is propositionally amorphous, it is not en-
tirely perceptually chaotic, because within it, objects interpreted and
constituted as such on a perceptual level have already been carved
out: as if the continuum in which a system of propositions carves
out its own configurations has already been tilled by a "wild" and
as yet nonsystematic semiosis. Before deciding whether the sun is a
star, planet, immaterial body that revolves around the earth, or a
body that lies at the center of the orbit of our planet, we perceive
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 257
that a circular luminous object moves in the sky, and this object
was familiar also to our remote ancestors, who probably had not
yet so much as elaborated a name with which to designate it.1 6
4.6.4 Vanville
All this obliges us to offer some reflections on the concept of truth.
Is there a difference between saying it is true that something is an
egg and saying it is true that something is a mammal? Or between
saying it is true that something is a mountain and saying it is true
that something is a MOUNTAIN? If the continuous oscillation (be-
tween structural organization and interpretation in terms of expe-
rience) I was talking about before did not exist, the answer would
be easy: to say that something is a MAMMAL or a MOUNTAIN can only
be true within a language L, while saying that something is an egg
or a mountain is true in terms of experience. Yet we have seen that
even in order to recognize an egg, we cannot elude the restraints
imposed by a language L, the same one by virtue of which it is
decided that BIRDS are such insofar as they lay eggs (but not all ani-
mals that lay eggs are BIRDS).
There is a definition of truth in the Dictionnaire by Greimas-
Courtes (1979) that seems tailor-made to irritate any upholder of a
truth-functional semantics, not to mention every supporter of a
correspondence theory of truth:
Truth designates the complex term which subsumes the terms be-
ing and seeming situated on the axis of contraries within the semi-
otic square of veridictory modalities. It might be helpful to point
out that the "true" is situated within the discourse, for it is the fruit
of the veridiction operations; this thus excludes any relation (or any
homologation) with an external referent.
Perhaps the Dictionnaire has discovered the most complicated way
to say something that is by no means simple but has nonetheless been
said before: and that is that the concept of truth should be seen within
the context of a system of content; that the propositions that the re-
ceiver already deems guaranteed within the framework of his own
258 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
cultural model are "true"; and that the interest of the analysis has
shifted from the protocols for defining an assertion as a true one (the
logical neopositivist stance, and that of the young Wittgenstein) to
the analysis of the discursive strategies that present something as true.
This position was less scandalous and less impermeable to the
(apparently opposite) discourses of analytic philosophy. Greimas's
position is based on a Hjelmslevian version of the structuralist para
digm, and the Hjelmslevian version anticipated (and when it was
not anticipating, it was on a parallel course: the dates speak
volumes)1 ,
the development of that internal criticism of logical
neopositivism and analytic philosophy that goes by the name of
holism, the challenging of the difference between analytic and syn-
thetic, the principle of warranted assertion, internal realism, and
the individuation of scientific paradigms as incommensurable
structures (or, in any event, as structures that do not admit of sim-
ple translation from one to the other). Even though indirectly,
Hjelmslev's version also influenced, rather than anticipated, the
criticism of knowledge as Mirror of Nature, and Rorty's (1979) idea
that every representation is a mediation and that we must drop the
notion of correspondence and see propositions connected with
other propositions rather than with the world.
The only difference is that from what is known as the holistic
standpoint there is in any case a tendency to define in what sense
something can be assumed as true, albeit in terms of "warranted as-
sertion," while in the semio-structuralist school, of which Greimas
perhaps represents the most radical wing, the thrust of research
was directed at understanding how a discourse makes one believe
that something is true.
The limitations of the semio-structural approach lie in the fact
that, to be able to say whether and how people accept something as
true, and to make them believe it is true, we must also assume that
there is a naive concept of truth, the same one that authorizes us to
say that the sentence It's raining today is empirically true—within
the context in which it is uttered. I do not think that this criterion
exists within the structuralist paradigm.
The trouble is that it does not exist within the truth-functionalist
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 259
paradigm either. In any event, it is not provided for in Tarski's cri-
terion of truth, which concerns the way in which the truth condi-
tions of a proposition are defined but not how to establish whether
or not the proposition is true. And to say that understanding the
meaning of a sentence means knowing its truth conditions (that is
to say, understanding under what conditions it would be true) does
not amount to proving whether or not the sentence is true.
Agreed, the paradigm is by no means so homogeneous as it is
usually held to be, and some also tend to interpret Tarski's criterion
in accordance with a correspondence theory of truth. But, whatever
Tarski thought,1 8
it is hard to read in a correspondentist sense the
canonical definition:
(i) "Snow is white"
is true if and only if
(ii) snow is white.
We are able to say which type of logical and linguistic entity
(i) is —it is a statement, or a sentence in a language L, which con-
veys a proposition—but we still have no idea of what (ii) is. If it
were a state of affairs (or a perceptual experience), we would be ex-
tremely puzzled: a state of affairs is a state of affairs, and a per-
ceptual experience is a perceptual experience, not a statement. If
anything, a sentence is produced to express a state of affairs or a
perceptual experience. But if what appears in (ii) is a sentence re-
garding a state of affairs or a perceptual experience, it cannot be a
sentence expressed in L, given that it must guarantee the truth of
the proposition expressed by the sentence (i). It must therefore be a
sentence expressed in a metalanguage L-,. But then Tarski's for-
mula must be translated as
(i) The proposition "snow is white," conveyed by the sentence (in
L) Snow is white,
is true if and only if
(ii) the proposition "snow is white," conveyed by the sentence (in
L2 ) Snow is white, is true.
260 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
This solution is clearly destined to produce a series of infinite sen-
tences, each expressed in a new metalanguage.1 9
Unless we understand the definition in a strictly behaviorist
sense: snow is white if—when confronted with the stimulus of
snow—each of the speakers reacts by saying that it is white. Apart
from the fact that we would find ourselves up to our necks in the
difficulties of radical translation, I don't think this was what Tarski
thought, and even if it were, this would still not be a way of decid-
ing whether a statement is true, because it would simply tell us that
all speakers make the same perceptual error, just as the fact that for
thousands of years all speakers said that in the evening the sun fell
in the sea is not proof that their statement was true.
It seems more convincing to admit that, in Tarski's formula,
(ii) conventionally stands for the assignation of a truth value to (i).
The Tarskian state of affairs is not something we can check in or-
der to acknowledge that the proposition it expresses is true; on the
contrary, it is that thing to which a true proposition corresponds, or
everything that is expressed by a true proposition (see McCawley
1981: 1 6 1 ) , in other words, its truth value. In this sense the Tarskian
notion does not tell us if it is truer to say that a cat is a cat or that a
cat is a mammal.
Which brings us back once more to the question of whether
there are truth criteria for observation sentences that are different
for nonobservation sentences.
Since such questions were debated in exemplary fashion in
Quine's "Two Dogmas of Empiricism," I shall recycle a story I re-
counted in 1990 in the course of a conference on Quine himself.2 0
I
specify this, because otherwise it would not be possible to under-
stand the names of the streets and the localities I use (all refer to fa-
mous examples taken from Quine's works)—neither the name
Vanville attributed to the city (Van is how Willard Van Orman
Quine was known to close friends) nor the passing reference to a
brick-built house on Elm Street, a typical example of an observa-
tion sentence used in Quine 1 9 5 1 .
Figure 4.1 shows the map of Vanville, a little town that first
grew up north of the river Gavagai in the days of the first pioneers.
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 261
Vanville is made entirely of wooden buildings, including the Pres-
byterian church, with the exception of the Civic Center, where at
the beginning of the century they constructed three masonry build-
ings with cast-iron columns. The map also shows a house made of
bricks on Elm Street, but this was built in 1 9 5 1 , and we shall have
more to say about it later.
As can be seen, Tegucigalpa Street, Pegasus Street, and Gior-
gione Street run perpendicular to Elm, Orman, and Willard
streets as well as to Riverside Drive. A sort of Broadway, called
Tully Road, tells us that Vanville is not necessarily a Roman cas-
trum, but that its development was inspired by a certain Anglo-
Saxon empiricism. Then there are Midtown Place and Uptown
Square, and between Midtown Square and Elm there are some
hills that still have not been built on. At the corner of Pegasus and
Willard, we find the three masonry buildings: the First Vanville
City Bank, the Delmonico Hotel, and the Town Hall. The citizens
of Vanville call it the Pegwill Center, which means "the center on
the corner of Pegasus and Willard" (which is not very different
from giving the name duck-billed platypus to a creature with a
bird's beak).
The map is an interpretation of the expression Vanville, but only
under a certain profile: it says nothing about the shape of the
houses or the beauty of the river. Since the citizens know their way
around town perfectly well, we can assume that each one has a cer-
tain knowledge of where the places are and that therefore the
diagram that is the map is part of their CT and of the publicly
shared NC.2 1
Let us now suppose that a tourist arrives in Vanville and asks for
the Pegwill Center. Depending on the direction from which he en-
ters the town, he will receive instructions of this type:
(1) The Pegwill Center is the place with three large buildings that
can be reached by starting off from the corner of Tegucigalpa
and Elm and then heading east across Elm before turning at
the corner of Pegasus and Elm to take Pegasus in a southerly
direction as far as the corner of Pegasus and Willard.
262 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
(2) The Pegwill Center is the place with three large buildings that
can be reached by starting off from the corner of Tully and
Willard and then heading east along Willard as far as the cor-
ner between Pegasus and Willard.
(3) The Pegwill Center is the place with three large buildings that
can be reached by heading south along Giorgione as far as the
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 263
(1), (2), and (3) are all interpretations of the term Pegwill City
Center. As such, they are a part of the NC of Pegwill Center, i.e., they
are instructions for its retrieval (and, all things considered, for its
identification, since there are no other large buildings in the town).
At first sight, instruction (3) may seem bizarre, but it would not
be, if it were given to someone who wanted to reach the Pegwill
Center after having acquired a sufficient knowledge of Vanville.
Given that a characteristic of interpretations is that through them
we always learn something more about the Immediate Object in-
terpreted, interpretation (3) makes it possible to know something
more about the Pegwill Center with regard to its relations with the
rest of the town.
Insofar as they are statements, (1), (2), and (3) are all true, at least
within the framework of the map (and the structure of the town).
In our case (in which we are simply imagining Vanville and its
map) it is clear that they are true only within the bounds of a sys-
tem of assumptions (the only experience we have is that of the
map), but the map is a drawing of a possible world, not a state of
the real world). But if Vanville really existed and a real tourist
found the Pegwill Center by following these instructions, he could
truthfully say / reached the Pegwill Center by following the route de-
scribed in instruction x.
One fine day, however, around 1953, someone built a house
made of bricks on Elm Street, right at the corner of Pegasus.
corner of Giorgione and Orman, then turning west onto Or-
man and proceeding to the corner of Orman and Tegucigalpa
before turning north and proceeding along Tegucigalpa until
the corner of Tegucigalpa and Elm, where you turn east and
proceed along Elm before turning southwest at the corner of
Elm and Tully and heading along Tully, where you have to
cross Riverside and the Rabbit Bridge and then dive into the
river Gavagai and swim eastward as far as the corner of River-
side and Giorgione before going north along Giorgione until
the corner of Giorgione and Willard, where you go west along
Willard until you come to the corner of Pegasus and Willard.
264 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Anyone passing there would now be entitled to say that there is a
house made of bricks on Elm Street. This would be an observation
sentence, which springs from a perceptual experience (and is prob-
ably taken as true by others who put their faith in credible testi-
mony). As such, this sentence does not upset all the other assertions
that could have been made previously about Vanville, and it does
not make the definitions (1), (2), and (3) any less true. But we can-
not say that it is independent of Vanville's general situation. If
someone were to characterize that house as the bric\ house on Elm
Street, at the very least it would have to be the only one of its kind
on Elm Street. In a city full of brick houses, it would still be a true
observation sentence to say that there is a brick house on Elm
Street, but it would not be a description capable of providing in-
structions for the identification of the referent.
Suppose, however, that the house on Elm Street is the only brick
structure in Vanville. As soon as its existence is registered by the
citizens, the possible interpretations of the Pegwill Center will be
increased. Without dragging in Ockham (Quodl. Septem, 8), who
used to say that you cannot raise a finger without creating an infin-
ity of new entities, because with this movement all relations of po-
sition between the finger and all the entities of the universe will be
changed, it cannot be denied that one of the new possible interpre-
tations of the Pegwill Center becomes "the group of buildings
south of the brick house on Elm Street" or "the group of buildings
that can be reached by starting from the brick house on Elm Street
and then heading south along Pegasus."
What will happen if a second brick house is built in Vanville? If
the citizens are used to calling the house on Elm the brick house,
with the appearance of a second the name of the first will have to
be changed. And one of the definitions of Elm Street will also have
to change, if someone defines it as that street in which stands the only
house made of bricks in the city.
How many new facts, with the observation sentences they in-
volve, are necessary to make a radical change in a system of inter-
connected definitions? The question recalls the paradox of the
heap. But between a heap and a single grain of sand there are many
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 265
intermediate degrees, and by removing many grains of sand from a
heap it is legitimate at least to assert that at a moment / the heap is
smaller than it was in the moment t..
Let us therefore leap from Vanville 1951 to the present day and
see in figure 4.2 how, through a series of transformations, it has be-
come Vanville 1997.
Around the famous brick house skyscrapers have gradually
sprung up, and the new Civic Center (to which the Bank, the
Town Hall, and the Museum have been transferred, while a new
Hilton hotel has been built) has been created. Owing to the
northerly expansion of the town, the old Uptown Square has be-
come Midtown Square. As it now stands on the corner of Pegasus
and Elm, it is curious that the new Civic Center is still called Peg-
will: there are inertial phenomena in language (in the same way as
today we still apply the name atom to something that has been
shown to be divisible). Midtown is now occupied by the artificial
Lake Barbarelli, to the delight of the wealthy inhabitants of the
new Gaurisander Heights (a series of residential villas that have
sprung up on what had previously been open hills). Tully Road
stops at the lake, beyond which it appears again as Cicero Road.
The old Civic Center now houses the Paradox Arcades: shops and
amusements. The new brick houses built along Riverside Drive
constitute Venus Village, which for a while was an area whose pic-
turesque bars were frequented by artists, but then was gradually
transformed into a red-light district with porn shops and strip
clubs. It is now dangerous to walk alone at night in downtown
Vanville.
Obviously, the previous interpretations of the Pegwill Center no
longer work. Number (2) now defines the Paradox Arcades, while
(1) and (3) no longer mean anything.
The two Vanvilles seem to constitute two mutually incommen-
surable systems, just as is said of languages when the notion of mu-
tual translatability is called into question. How can we translate the
sentences pronounced on Vanville 1951 to make them comprehen-
sible (and true) with regard to Vanville 1997? The answer is that
we cannot. We are faced with two systems in which the same
266 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
names refer to different streets (in Vanville 1997, Tully Road means
something different from what it meant in Vanville 1951).
The single facts and observation sentences that used to express
these names and streets have gradually generated a new system, the
Vanville 1997 system, incommensurable with the Vanville 1951 sys-
tem. We can no longer even consider as equally true the sentence
There is a brick house on Elm Street, because, if anything, there is a
brick house on East Elm. Besides, that house is no longer close to
Uptown Square but to Midtown Square; it is not north of the
Pegwill Center but in the Pegwill Center, et cetera, et cetera.
Yet even though the entire system that once denned that brick
house has changed, the brick house is still there; anyone can see it,
and anyone who saw it in 1951 can recognize it in 1997 as the same
house.
A curious situation, but not that dissimilar to the one in which I
had pu"t Galileo and Tycho Brahe, intent on looking at the same
sun, acknowledging they were seeing the same thing and neverthe-
less obliged, in terms of the MC they attributed to the term sun, to
define it in different ways within the framework of a different sys-
tem of assumptions.
But although they recognize the brick house as the same one as
before, do the citizens really perceive it in the same way? In New
York today, dwarfed by the skyscrapers on Fifth Avenue, the neo-
Gothic churches with their tall spires that once seemed towering
affairs now strike us as minuscule, almost miniaturized. In the
same way, how will this handsome and majestic house, so imposing
when it was built, appear now, set against the skyscrapers of the
new center that have sprung up around it? And that's how, on the
one hand, an object does not change and is always perceived as
such, and how, on the other hand, by virtue of the town plan sys-
tem of which it is a part, is seen differently.2 2
The principle is also taken up again in Quine (1995: 43 ffi):
although they are dependent on perceptual stimuli, observation
sentences "change and develop with the growth of scientific knowl-
edge." The parameter of an observation sentence is given, as well as
experience, by the "pertinent linguistic community." It is "public
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 267
Figure 4.2 (Vanville 1997)
pressure" that obliges the subject to correct the observation sen-
tence Look a t t n e
fob when faced with a whale.
Let us try to reformulate the question in the terms used by
Putnam (1987: 33): "There are 'external facts,' and we can say what
268 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
they are. What we cannot say—because it makes no sense—is what
the facts are independent of all conceptual choices." Let there be three
spatiotemporal points xi, X 2 , and X 3 : how many "objects" are
there? In a world a la Carnap there would be three objects (xi, X 2 ,
and X 3 ) ; in a world according to the Polish logicians, there would
be seven objects (xi, X 2 , X 3 , xi + X 2 , xi + X 3 , X2 + X 3 , xi + X2 + X 3 ) .
The number of identifiable objects changes according to the con-
ceptual framework. Yet (and I stress this) we recognize as an initial
stimulus three spatiotemporal points, and in the absence of that
agreement on the initial stimulus the debate on identifiable objects
could not even get started. Not only that, the two universes would
not be comparable.
That two systems are structurally incommensurable does not
mean that their two structures cannot be compared, and the two
maps of Vanville we have been playing with until now demon-
strate this.
We are able to understand the two systems, and we are able to
understand what it means when both cities contain the same brick
house. On this basis we can certainly understand that the instruc-
tions ( 1 M 3 ) that held good for Vanville 1951 no longer hold good
for Vanville 1997. Yet by taking the first map and checking the
meaning of the expression Tully Road, we are able to establish from
the second map that that content now corresponds to two different
urban entities, nameable as Tully Road and Cicero Road.
This allows us to say that, if we found a treasure map from
Vanville 1 9 5 1 , which said that starting from the corner of Elm and
Giorgione, before turning southwest along Tully Road, three me-
ters before the corner of Midtown Square, on the right we would
find a buried chest of Spanish doubloons. In Vanville 1997, this
sentence would translate as "Starting from the corner of East Elm
and Giorgione, before turning southwest along Cicero, three me-
ters before the area occupied by Lake Barbarelli, on the right, we
will find a chest of Spanish doubloons." The interesting aspect of
the business is that, by negotiating the criteria of reference and the
criteria of translation between two systems considered incommen-
surable, we might really find those doubloons.
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 269
One of the more diverting problems to be found in old (and
sometimes new) Italian translations of hard-boiled American crime
fiction is that the detective often gets into a cab and says "Portami
nella citta bassa" (literally, "Take me to the lower city"). Sometimes
he asks to be taken to the "upper city." The Italian reader immedi-
ately thinks that all American cities are like Bergamo (which is di-
vided into upper Bergamo and lower Bergamo) or like Turin,
Florence, Budapest, or Tbilisi, with one part of town on the plain
and, across the river, another part on the hills. Obviously it is not
like that. In the English text the detective asks to be taken down-
town (or uptown).
But let's put ourselves in the translator's shoes, remembering
that often he or she has never set foot in the United States. How
must these terms be translated? If the translator asked a native for
an explanation, the native would tell him that "uptown" and
"downtown" are concepts that change from city to city: sometimes
they mean the business center, sometimes the red-light district and
therefore the oldest part of the city, sometimes the area along the
river, according to how the city developed (in New York these con-
cepts are occasionally absolute—and so Wall Street is certainly
downtown—and occasionally relative, so if you want to go to the
Village from Central Park you tell the driver to go downtown,
while if you wanted to go there from Wall Street, you would tell
him to go uptown).
Solutions? There is no rule, but the translator would need to
know in which city the story is set. Then he would have to look at
the map (and consult a good guidebook), understand what the de-
tective is going to do (visit a gambling house, a five-star hotel, a
seedy dive, or to find a ship), and then have him tell the cab driver
each time to take him to the center, to the business quarter, to the
old town, to the port, or wherever the devil it is he wants to go.
The referent for downtown is to be negotiated, to the extent in
which the meaning is negotiable, according to the city (to the sys-
tem).
The chance of an observation sentence's being true is also a
matter for negotiation. But this does not alter the fact that the
270 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
observation sentence is based on perceptual evidence, on the fact
that that brick house was built after all, and that in some way it is
perceived even by a dog who knows nothing about the Vanville
town plan. You can avoid noting its presence, but you cannot deny
that it is there. However, the moment its presence is noted, it must
be named and defined, and this cannot be done except within the
context of the city as a system.
4.7 CONTRACT AND MEANING
By now I think it is clear that all this presupposes a contractual no-
tion both of CTs and of NCs and MCs. I dealt elsewhere (Eco 1993)
with the various attempts made over the centuries to construct (or
rediscover) a Perfect Language. Most of these attempts were based
on the,assumption that it is possible to identify a series of primitive
notions, common to the whole species, and arrange them in an ele-
mentary grammar, so as to construct a metalanguage in which the
notions and propositions expressed in any natural language are en-
tirely translatable, under all circumstances, and in a way devoid of
that ambiguity proper to our mother tongues. Why, given that I
have mentioned semiosic primitives and CTs connected with per-
ceptual experience, might it not be possible to construct such a per-
fect language on this basis, which today might even assume the
form of a mentalese that explains the way in which the human
mind works and the way in which a silicon-based mind might hu-
manly work?
Because, I think, it's one thing to proceed in the course of our ex-
perience by elaborating CTs and NCs, but it is another thing to say
that these entities of ours are really universal and metahistoric in
their format. You cannot construct a Perfect Language, because it
would exclude that moment of negotiation that makes our lan-
guages efficacious.
Everybody finds himself more or less agreed regarding to the
recognition of a rat, but not only is the zoologist's competence dif-
ferent from mine, the zoologist must also continually check to see
whether his NC has the same format as mine. Is the fact that rats
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 271
are carriers of disease a part of the NC of rat? It depends on the
culture, the circumstances, and naturally the age. In the seven-
teenth century, people had still not associated rats with plagues, but
they do today, and when pestilence strikes now, anyone, before per-
ceiving the rat as a quadruped, would perceive it as a threat.
The CT and NC are always negotiable; they are sort of
"chewing-gum" notions that assume configurations that vary ac-
cording to circumstances and cultures. Things are there, with their
invasive presence; I don't think there is a culture that can induce
one to perceive dogs as bipeds or feathered creatures, and this is a
very strong bond indeed. But apart from that, meanings scatter, dis-
sociate themselves, and reorganize. Even the so-called "disposi-
tional" properties give us serious reasons for doubting whether the
proposition Sugar is soluble (in whatever language it is uttered) is
the same when it is expressed in Latin America (with reference to
brown cane sugar) or in Europe (with reference to white beet su-
gar). This "solubility" requires different times.
The same negotiability, as has been demonstrated by the story of
the platypus, regulates the construction of scientific paradigms,
even though in such cases the restructuring of the directories takes
more time and is negotiated on the basis of rigorous and not wild
criteria.
4.7.1 The meaning of terms and the sense of texts
Some have concluded that, if meaning is negotiable, then it is no
longer of any use in explaining the way we understand one an-
other.
There are two ways to avoid talking of meaning. The first con-
sists in stating (e.g., as in Marconi 1997: 4) that we cannot talk of
meaning, because it is an entity whose whereabouts is unknown,
whereas we can talk about the various kinds of lexical competence,
which are "families of skills." But in such a case, it seems to me, in
order to establish that such competence exists, all we can do is try a
behavioral test: that the speakers share the same degree of com-
petence would be proved by the fact that they understand one
2 7 2 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
another, making the same inferences from the same premises, or in
referring to something, and making what I have called acts of felic-
itous reference. Now, in what way does this proof of the existence
of shared competence differ from what I understand as proof by
interpretation of the public existence of a content (or meaning) that
in its turn proves the private existence of cognitive types? Let us re-
member that for Peirce even certain ongoing behavior can be seen
as a dynamic interpretant (the fact that at the command Attention! all
soldiers assume a determined position is a possible interpretant of
the verbal command). Therefore to speak of meanings as content
does not lead to any hypostatization of elusive entities, or no more
at least than it does with concepts of competence or lexical abilities.
The second way consists in saying that the understanding of lan-
guage happens simply by attributing beliefs to our interlocutor that
may cpincide more or less with our own. But I have the impression
that the introduction of belief does not exorcise the ghost of mean-
ing (and of the CT it expresses), at least not in the sense of content
I have been using so far. To take an example from Davidson ( 1 9 8 4 :
2 7 9 ) , if a boat sails past rigged as a ketch, and someone beside me
says, Lool{ a t
that fine yawl!, I assume (i) he perceived the rigging of
the boat as I did and erred only in using the linguistic term that be-
longs to a simple slip; (ii) he does not know the content of the word
yawl; or (iii) he has committed a perceptual error. But in all these
cases I must postulate that he may know various types of boat just
as I do and that he associates a term with these types that expresses
their NC, otherwise I could not even suppose that he has (i) simply
confused the use of the words, (ii) confused the meaning of words,
or (iii) erred in associating a given token with an idea of boat that
he is conceiving somewhere. Without the assumption that the two
interlocutors must in some way share a system, no matter how
asystematic, of directories and files, interaction is not possible. I
might be moved by a principle of charity so generous as to attribute
to the other person directories organized differently from my own,
and try to adapt myself to them. If this means comparing "beliefs,"
well and good. But then we are dealing with a purely terminologi-
cal issue. The tree of directories, and that which ought to be regis-
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 273
tered, is postulated as that organization of content, no matter how
idiosyncratic, which others call "meaning."
I maintain that these discussions lack a distinction that many
theories of semiotics have been making for a long time, even
though I admit that it is difficult to come to an agreement regard-
ing the sense to be assigned to the terms. The notion of meaning is
internal to a semiotic system: it has to be admitted that in a given
semiotic system there exists a meaning assigned to a term. The no-
tion of sense, on the other hand, is internal to utterances or, rather,
to texts. I do not think anybody would refuse to admit that there
exists a fairly stable meaning of the word dog (to the point that we
can even—an extreme act of semiotic imprudence—assume that it
is the synonym of cane, chien, perro, and Hund) and that neverthe-
less the same word can assume different senses within different ut-
terances (we need only think of metaphorical cases).2 3
Readers are enjoined not to think in terms of a total parallelism
with the difference as posited by Frege between Sinn and Bedeu-
tung. In any case it seems clear to me that the dictionary can assign
a meaning to term X, and nonetheless within different utterances
the same term can assume different senses (if nothing else, in the
most trivial sense of the term, and so the expression This pope is cor-
rupt, pronounced by an anticlerical with reference to Alexander VI,
may have a sense that is different from that pronounced with refer-
ence to John XXIII by a traditionalist prelate).
Now, it is evident that in order to determine the sense of an ut-
terance, it is necessary to have frequent recourse to the principle of
charity. But the same rule does not hold good with regard to the
meaning of a term.
To say that understanding one another is the effect of infinite ne-
gotiations (and acts of charity in order to be able to understand the
beliefs of others, or the format of their competence) regards the un-
derstanding of utterances, i.e., of texts.2 4
But it does not mean we
can eliminate the notion of meaning by dissolving an old and vener-
able semantics in syntax, on the one hand, and in pragmatics, on
the other. To say that meaning is negotiated does not mean that
the contract springs from nothing. On the contrary, also from a
274 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
juridical point of view, contracts are possible precisely because con-
tractual rules are already in existence. A sale is a contract: if A sells
a house to B, after the contract the house will be defined as the
property of B, and it would never have been such had it not been
for the sales agreement; but for the contract to be made, it was nec-
essary for A and B to agree on the NC of sale. A and B can even ne-
gotiate the content of house (B could say to A that what he is trying
to sell him is not a house but a farmhouse, a shanty, a cow shed, a
skyscraper, a lake dwelling, or a ruin unfit for human habitation).
But even in such a case they would start off from a shared notion of
artifact originally intended to shelter living creatures or things, and
if they were unable to have a regulated notion that at least allowed
them to distinguish what could be defined as a house from what
could be defined as a tree, they would not be able even to begin ne-
gotiating.2 5
Defining the meaning of the term sale is not the same as saying
in what sense I must interpret the expression You sold yourself to the
enemy.
It is one thing to say that we cannot formulate precise rules for
the disambiguation of a concept (because it all depends on each in-
dividual's beliefs), and another to say that the meanings of terms in
a given language, which to some extent must be public, are
nonetheless always negotiable, and not only in the shift from lan-
guage to language but also within the same language, according to
different pertinences.
Insofar as they are contents, meanings can always be identified
even though they fluctuate and coagulate, and for some speakers
shrivel until they all but prevent them from speaking appropriately
or from recognizing something. But I see no reason why a contrac-
tual view of the sense of utterances must rule out, on the one hand,
the existence of a grain that binds our cognitive types and, on the
other, the linguistic conventions that register these bonds and sup-
ply the basis for successive interpretations and negotiations.2 6
There is no doubt that if I, sitting in a car beside the driver, urge
her on, saying, You can go, the traffic light is blue, she will instantly
understand that I meant to say green (or she will think that I am
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 275
color-blind, or that it was merely a slip on my part). Perhaps this
happens because the meaning of the words does not count and she
understands me only because she attributes to me a belief similar to
her own? And what would have happened if in that moment I had
said You can go, because 7 is a prime number} Would she have
thought that, as I am like her, I could only have been referring to
the green light? Or would not the strength of the words, indepen-
dently of the situation, have obliged her to try to understand what I
meant to communicate, perhaps implicitly, because my observation
was certainly mathematical and had nothing to do with traffic cir-
culation?
4.7.2 Meaning and the text
I have said that certain surprises regarding the flexibility of our
semiotic instruments spring from the fact that, in almost all dis-
courses on the elusive nature of meaning, there is confusion over
the meaning of the terms and the sense of the utterance. But there is
more to the problem than this. There is also confusion with regard
to elementary utterances and texts.
In the traffic-light example, the dialogue cannot stop at that
point. The driver has to ask me for extra information; I have to tell
her what I meant by that mathematical allusion. Textual semiotics
has acknowledged for some time that we can recognize systems of
conventions on a grammatical level and nevertheless admit that ne-
gotiation occurs on a textual level. It is the text that negotiates the
rules. All things considered, giving a book the title Pride and Preju-
dice also means to say that, at the end of the novel, our idea of those
two sentiments, or of that social behavior, must emerge modified.
But this on condition that right from the start we have a vague no-
tion of what those two words mean.
As for isolated utterances, these highly improbable affairs (pro-
nounced only in language laboratories) allow for no negotiation;
only autistic subjects exchange fragments of their extremely private
idiolect, asserting that men can be unmarried without being bache-
lors, that elephants can or cannot have trunks. But to negotiate
276 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
with my patient readers that it is possible to say truthfully that Ay-
ers Rock's a
mountain and at the same time that Ayers Rock's n o t a
MOUNTAIN, I had need of lengthy argumentation in textual form,
and I could not rely on my interlocutor's goodwill, or on her char-
ity—to be hoped for—toward me.
This brings me handily to some thoughts on the cartoonist
Peyo's little blue gnomes, known in English as the Smurfs, which
were originally called Les Schtroumpfs.2 ,
The characteristic of the
Schtroumpf language is that in it, as often as possible, proper and
common nouns, verbs, and adverbs are replaced by conjugations
and declinations of the word schtroumpf.
For example, in one of the stories a Schtroumpf decides to rise to
power and launches a political campaign. His speech sounds like
this:
Demain, vous schtroumpferez aux urnes pour schtroumpfer celui
qui sera votre schtroumpf! Et a qui allez-vous schtroumpfer votre
voix? A un quelconque Schtroumpf qui ne schtroumpfe pas
plus loin que le bout de son schtroumpf? Non! II vous faut un
Schtroumpf fort sur qui vous puissiez schtroumpfer! Et je suis
ce Schtroumpf! Certains—que je ne schtroumpferez pas ici—
schtroumpferont que je ne schtroumpfe que les honneurs! Ce n'est
pas schtroumpf!... C'est votre schtroumpf a tous que je veux et je
me schtroumpferai jusqu'a la schtroumpf s'il faut pour que la
schtroumpf regne dans nos schtroumpfs! Et ce que je schtroumpfe,
je schtroumpferai, voila ma devise! C'est pourquoi tous ensemble,
la schtroumpf dans la schtroumpf, vous voterez pour moi! Vive le
pays Schtroumpf!
The Schtroumpf language seems to lack all the requisites of a
working language. It is a language devoid of synonyms and full of
homonyms, more than a normal language could handle. But not
only do the Schtroumpfs understand one another perfectly well,
the reader does too, and that is what counts.
This would seem to work in favor of Davidson's position. The
Schtroumpfs do not speak in a void (they do not utter sentences
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 277
outside any given situation) but in the context of a comic strip, and
therefore in a multimedial context, where we not only read (or
hear) what they are saying but also see what they are doing. But
this is the situation in which we usually interpret other people's
words—and it is because we speak within a situation that we are
able to apply the deictics, such as this or that. Therefore it might be
said that, on hearing that burst of homonyms in a given situation,
we attribute the speaker with the same beliefs we would cleave to
in the same situation, and by the principle of charity we lend him
those terms he has not uttered but which he could or should have
uttered.
Or we might say (as Wittgenstein might have said) that in
the Schtroumpf language the real meaning of the term is its
use (obviously I am referring not so much to the Schtroumpfus
Schtroumpfico-Schtroumpficus as to the Schtroumpfische Unter-
schtroumpfungen).
But here two objections arise. The first is that we "lend" or at-
tribute to the speaker the terms he has not uttered precisely because
these terms (with their conventional meaning) preexist in our lexi-
con. If readers understand my joke about the Schtroumpf and
Wittgenstein, it is because they have already heard the original
titles mentioned. We can negotiate a contract only because a prede-
fined semiotic (intertextual) system already exists, in which the var-
ious expressions have a content.
In the second place, the electioneering speech quoted earlier does
not refer to the perceivable situation (i.e., to what the picture
shows). It refers to the "political speech" scenario and its rhetoric. It
refers to a large quantity of utterances we have heard in analogous
situations and therefore to the universe of intertextuality. An ex-
pression like Un quelconque Schtroumpf qui ne schtroumpfe pas plus
loin que le bout de son schtroumpf is understandable, because we
know the stock phrase He cannot see any farther than his own nose.
An utterance like ]e me schtroumpferai jusqu a la schtroumpf can be
decoded, because we have heard on an infinity of occasions / will
fight to the death, and we have heard it within the context of the
278 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
rhetoric of deliberative speech. La Schtroumpf dans la schtroumpf is
understandable, because we have heard hand in hand thousands
of times.
This means that the Schtroumpf language responds to the rules
of a linguistics of the text, where the sense depends on the identifi-
cation of the textual topic. It is true that (see Eco 1979) every text is
a lazy machine that requires active interpretative cooperation on the
part of its receiver, and this laziness seems to invite us to make texts
in Schtroumpf. Our collaboration is possible, because we appeal to
the universe of intertextuality, and we can understand Schtroumpf,
because all speakers use the term schtroumpf and its derivatives al-
ways and solely in those contexts in which a phrase of that kind has
already been pronounced.
The Schtroumpf language is a parasitic language, because,
although nouns, verbs, and adjectives are replaced with the all-
purpose homonym, it would not be understood if it were not
backed up by the syntax (and the various lexical contributions) of
the base language (be it the original French or its translations).
Now, in one of the stories we meet the enemy of the Schtroumpf,
the wicked wizard Gargamel. He speaks the same French on
which Schtroumpf is based, but normally. Gargamel casts a spell to
change himself into a Schtroumpf and goes to the village of his
little enemies. But he has to restrict himself to sidling along walls
without replying to those who ask him why (we are told) he does
not know the Schtroumpf language. How is this possible, if we
have seen that the base language is the same as his, and he could in-
terpret what the Schtroumpf say to him if only he applied the prin-
ciple of charity? The fundamental rule of Schtroumpf is: Replace
every term of the common language with schtroumpf as often as
you can without excessive ambiguity. But Gargamel's problem is
clearly that he finds all contexts ambiguous, or incomprehensible,
for the simple reason that he has no intertextual information.
Let us suppose that an English speaker of average culture hears
a Schtroumpf poet reciting I schtroumpfed lonely as a schtroumpf. He
would certainly grasp the reference to Wordsworth. Obviously he
would also grasp the reference to Shakespeare in To schtroumpf
The Platypus between Dictionary and Encyclopedia I 279
or not to schtroumpf. But he might well be stuck on hearing
Schtroumpf is the schtroumpfest schtroumpf because he may never
have read T. S. Eliot before and may not know that some months
are cruder than others. He would find himself in the same situa-
tion as Gargamel.2 8
Every application of the principle of charity to what someone is
about to say is based on a modicum of lexical information but,
above all, on a vast amount of information about what has already
been said.
Chapter Five
NOTES ON REFERRING AS CONTRACT
After having spoken of meaning as contract, one is tempted to see
if the notion of contract/negotiation might not also apply to the
phenomenon of referring, and if so, to what extent.
It is no accident that the paragraphs of this essay are not num-
bered: this is precisely to exclude even the slightest suspicion that
my discourse harbors any systematic ambitions. The question of re-
ferring, in all its ramifications, is one that would put the fear of
God into even the strongest among us. Here I have restricted my-
self to a series of problematic observations, which throw light on
some reasons why it is convenient to think that operations involv-
ing referring have a contractual nature—or at least a strong con-
tractual component.
In Eco (1976: 163) I accepted Strawson's (1950) proposal,
whereby mentioning or referring is not something an expres-
sion does but something that someone can use an expression to do.
Strawson went on to say, "[To] give the meaning of an expression...
is to give general directions for its use to refer to or mention particu-
lar objects and persons" and, "[To] give the meaning of a sentence
is to give general directions for its use in making true or false asser-
tions." I still think that this is a satisfactory arrangement and that
280
Notes on Referring as Contract I 281
referring is a linguistic act. Which does not alter the fact that it is
very tricky to say what kind of linguistic act it may be and what are
its conditions of felicitousness.
Between the meaning of an expression, which also provides in-
structions for the identification or retrieval of the referent, and the
meaning of the sentence, which also ought to regard the expres-
sion's truth value, what remains empty is precisely the space for re-
ferring.
Can we refer to all cats?
First of all, so that these most partial notes may be understood, I
must clarify what I mean by the term referring.
I intend to exclude a "broad" use of the term,1
and I think it
would be appropriate (also in the light of the previous essays) to
limit the notion of referring to what is perhaps more properly de-
scribable as cases of designation, that is, to utterances that mention
particular individuals, groups of individuals, specific facts or se-
quences of facts, in specific times and places. From now on I shall
also be using the generic notion of "individual" for identifiable
spatiotemporal segments, such as 25 April 1945, and I shall hold to
the golden decision by which nominantur singularia sed universalia
significantur.
I refer the reader to Eco (1989) for the extremely tortuous story
of terms such as denotatio and designatio, which have taken on dif-
ferent senses in the course of the centuries, but I think we can ac-
cept what has now become the established custom whereby general
terms "denote" properties of class or genera, while singular terms
or expressions that circumscribe precise portions of space-time
"designate" individuals (see, e.g., Quine 1955: 32-33).
I maintain therefore that we perform acts of reference by using
designative sentences like Look a t t n a t
platypus, Go fetch me the
stuffed platypus I left on the table, The platypus in Sydney Zoo is dead,
while I maintain that sentences like Platypuses are mammals or
Platypuses lay eggs do not refer to individuals but assert some prop-
erties that are attributed to genera, species, or classes of individuals.
282 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
To return to the computer example I gave in 4.2, I am talking not
so much about platypuses as about the way in which our directory
tree (or that of the zoologist) is organized. We are not referring to
any individual or group of individuals but reasserting a cultural
rule, making a semiotic and nonfactual judgment,2
reiterating the
way in which our culture has defined a concept. Defining a concept
means elaborating a unit of content, which corresponds in fact to
the meaning, or to part of the meaning, of the corresponding term.
Saying that "one refers" to meanings is at best a bizarre way of us-
ing the word referring.
If instead I say In 1884, Caldwell saw a platypus while it was laying
eggs, I am referring to an individual x (Caldwell), who at the time y
( 1 8 8 4 ) examined an individual platypus (which one I don't know,
but he did, and it was certainly that platypus and not another, and
I imagine it was a female) to discover that it laid ovoidal objects S„
s2 ...sn |I don't know how many, but he certainly knew, and the as-
sertion refers to those objects and not to others).
While some authors hold that there are cases of reference to
essences, which I shall call quidditates, here I should like to deal
only with the designation of haecceitates: Naturally I mean quidditas
in its Scholastic sense, as the essence itself seen as knowable and de-
finable. To quote Aquinas, who however was referring in his turn
to the words of Averroes (De ente et essentia III), "Socrates nihil
aliud est quam animalitas et rationalitas, quae sunt quidditas ejus."
In this context I am insisting on the fact that one can designate
Socrates but not his quiddity, and I harbor doubts regarding the
legitimacy of saying that we refer to the quiddity of Socrates.
By bringing into play the concept of haecceitas (Scotist and not
Thomist), I am calling into question the notion that Socrates is ni-
hil aliud than his quidditas. And as a matter of fact Aquinas was
well aware that, to talk of Socrates as an individual, it was neces-
sary to appeal to a principium individuationis, which was the matter
signata quantitate. Since my purpose here is neither to teach the his-
tory of medieval philosophy nor to profess neo-Thomism or neo-
Scotism, I shall make free use of the notion of haecceitas as an
unrepeatable characteristic of individuals (whether it depends on
Notes on Referring as Contract I 283
the matter signata quantitate or any other principle of individ-
uation—as, for example, a genetic inheritance, or registry office
records).
I assume the notion of individual in its most intuitive sense, the
way we use it in everyday speech. Usually we think not only that
there are unrepeatable objects of which no replica or double is con-
ceivable (such as my daughter or the city of Grenoble) but that even
in the case of groups of objects in which each is the double of the
other (such as the sheets in a ream of paper) it is always possible to
choose one of those sheets and decide that, although it has all the
properties of the others, it is nonetheless that sheet, even though the
only mark of individuality I can allow it is that it is the sheet I am
holding in that moment. But that sheet is so individual that, if I
burn it, I have burned that one and not another.
It seems to me that the medieval notion of materia signata quan-
titate is no different from the idea of the principle of individuation
expressed, for example, by Kripke (1972: 350): "If a material object
has its origin in a certain hunk of matter, then it could not have its
origin in any other matter." This idea that the individual possesses
a haecceitas still has nothing to do with the idea that man or water
(in general) has an essence, even though in current causal theories
of reference these two problems often appear together. Which is a
good reason, in itself, for distinguishing between designation (of
individuals) and denotation (of genera).
However, I did specify that I intend to use referring not only for
the designation of individuals (in the broadest sense of the term,
and so even 25 April 1945 is an individuable segment of space-time,
and the assassination of Julius Caesar is an individually punctual fact)
but also for groups of individuals. By "groups of individuals to
which we can refer" (also including generic spatiotemporal seg-
ments, such as the thirties) we must understand a set of individuals
that has either been counted, or was countable, or might one day be
countable (so that every single individual could be individuated).
References to the first victim of the Second World War or to the first
men to settle in Australia are certainly very vague: but in using them,
we nevertheless presume that it may be theoretically possible one
284 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
day (or that it may have been possible in the past) to ascertain who
the individuals in question were, if nothing else because of the fact
that they certainly existed.
Deciding whether a sentence designates individuals or classes
depends not on its grammatical form (on the basis of which one can
construct an infinite number of bold examples and counterexam-
ples without ever solving the problem definitively) but on the in-
tention of the senders and on the assumptions of the receivers.
Therefore a first contract is necessary to decide whether the sen-
tence has a referential function or not.
Sometimes discriminating is very simple: This sticky is one meter
long certainly designates a certain individual stick, while One meter
equals 3.2802 feet expresses a law or a convention. But other cases
require more thought. If Herod, before the birth of Jesus, had said
to Herodias that he hated all babies, she probably would have
agreed about the fact that Herod was not referring to some partic-
ular babies but expressing his dislike of babies in general. But when
Herod ordered his cutthroats to kill all the babies in Galilee, by his
order he intended to designate all the babies born that year in a
precise place, one by one (apart from anything else, they were iden-
tifiable thanks precisely to the census that had just been made).3
But there is a point that needs to be made clear, even though it
should have been clear since the days of Plato and Aristotle. Iso-
lated terms assert nothing (at best, they have a meaning): what is
true and false is said only in the sentence, or in the corresponding
proposition. Now, I am not saying that referring is the same thing
as saying what is true and false (we shall see that acts of reference
can be made even when we have not decided if what we are refer-
ring to is in fact the case or not), but without a doubt, if we always
refer only to individuals, we refer to states of a world (any world).
And to do this we need to articulate a sentence. If I say cat, I am not
referring to anything. I can refer to one cat only, or to some cats lo-
calized or localizable in time and space. On the other hand, when
people say we can refer to generalia, they are suggesting that refer-
ring is something we do with isolated terms. I often happen to hear
Notes on Referring as Contract I 285
otherwise entirely respectable persons stating that the word cat
refers to cats, or to the essence of cats. For the reasons given previ-
ously, this strikes me as misleading, so I shall refrain from putting
the problem that way.
The word cat always means or denotes, if you will, the essence of
cat (or the NC, or the corresponding MC) in all circumstances, out-
side all contexts, and therefore its signifying or denotative power
belongs to the lexical type. The same word designates a given cat
only in the context of a sentence that has been uttered and that con-
tains specifications of time and place, and therefore the function of
designation is performed by the token. The sentence type Cats are
mammals expresses a thought, in whatever context it appears, even
if it is found in a bottle (and in any case one can decide whether it
is true or false), while the sentence There is a cat in the kitchen refers
to an X located in space-time and, if found written in a message in
a bottle, it loses all referential efficacy. Even though we may suspect
it to be an act of reference, we can no longer prove whether it was
true or false at the time and place it was uttered (see Ducrot 1995:
303-05).
Having clarified the conditions under which the following dis-
course may be followed, follow me.
Referring to horses
If we return to the story of Montezuma related in 3.3, we see that
(i) his messengers transmitted the NC of horse to him by interpre-
tants; (ii) they were obviously referring to something they had seen
in the course of the Spaniards' landing; (iii) Montezuma under-
stood they were referring to something even before he understood
what it actually was; (iv) on the basis of their interpretation, he con-
structed a CT of the horse, thanks to which, presumably, he was
able to recognize the referent when he came across it; (v) it seems
that after having received the message, he kept silent for a long
time, and we may suppose that he never referred to horses until the
moment came when he recognized one; and (vi) at the right time,
286 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
he might have recognized the mysterious macatl his messengers
had told him about, yet, continuing to brood, he might have re-
frained from talking about and therefore referring to horses.
Therefore we can link an NC to a term, and this NC (which
should have a corresponding CT) contains instructions for the
recognition of the referent, but the instructions for the recognition
of the referent and recognition itself have nothing immediately to
do with the act of reference to something.
Now let's make our story a little more complex. The Spaniards
arrive in Montezuma's palace. He thinks he recognizes a macatl in
the palace courtyard and dashes off to his courtiers (whose number
include his messengers), saying that there is a macatl in the court-
yard. In that case he would certainly be referring to a horse, and
this is what his messengers would understand, given that they are
the ones who told him the meaning of the word. But one of the
messengers might harbor a doubt: is it certain that Montezuma is
using the word macatl in the sense they use it? This is no small
problem: if Montezuma is right, and a horse really has appeared in
the courtyard, this means that the Spaniards have already arrived
in the capital.
And what if, on listening to their description, Montezuma has
misunderstood, and thinks he has seen a horse when in fact he has
seen something else? Even though some otherwise respectable peo-
ple will insist that the word horse always refers to horses and to
horses only (to horsehood) independently of the intentions or lexi-
cal competence of the speaker, I don't think the messengers can
content themselves with this comforting certainty, because their
problem is to know what Montezuma has seen, and what he is re-
ferring to, even though he has got the name wrong.
The messengers' problem is the same as the one facing many
philosophers today: how to "fix the reference." But their problem is
not how to identify the referent of the word macatl, about whose
NC they have already agreed upon. They would be almost in
agreement with those who define the extension of a term as the set
of all the things for which the term is true (except that, aware they
Notes on Referring as Contract I 287
were still talking of terms and not sentences, they would have
made a suitable correction: "the set of things to which one may cor-
rectly apply the term when wishing to utter true propositions").
But they must decide whether Montezuma is applying the name
properly (and the criterion of correctness is the one they—the
Nomothetes—fixed on the day the Spaniards landed), and only af-
ter having made this decision will they be able to fix the reference
understood by Montezuma by the sentence There is a macatl in the
palace courtyard. Note that by speaking, Montezuma presumably
intends to use the word macatl in the same sense as his messengers
use it, but this is hardly a guarantee for us, and even less so for
them. They could, out of the principle of charity, assume that
Montezuma is using it in the same sense as they are, but they can-
not be sure.
The messengers are sure that Montezuma is referring to some-
thing, and what he is putting into effect is an act of reference, but
they are not sure that it "points" to the referent they mean.
What are they to do? There is only one solution: to question
Montezuma, to know if by the word macatl he intends to refer to
animals made in such and such a way. But even this is not enough.
Certainty will be attained only when Montezuma points out a cer-
tain animal to them while uttering the appropriate term, but until
that time it is necessary to stimulate Montezuma's interpretations
with a view to making the NC of macatl as public as possible.
Long negotiations must therefore follow, at the end of which
both parties are holding a sequence of words, gestures, and draw-
ings made public, like an affidavit or a sort of notarized deed. Only
through that express contract can the messengers be reasonably
sure that Montezuma is referring to the same thing they intend to
refer to when they say macatl. Fixing the reference of the sentence
again means (as it does for the interpretation of the CT through an
NC) making explicit a chain of intersubjectively verifiable inter-
pretants.
At this point the messengers might be sure that Montezuma
is referring to something and that what he is referring to is
288 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
something they are prepared to recognize as a horse, yet they still
cannot be sure that there really is a horse in the palace courtyard.
Which tells us that referring to, intending (by referring) to use the
language the way one's interlocutors do, and possessing the same
instructions for recognizing the referent still have nothing to do
with the question of whether a linguistic act of reference expresses
a true proposition.
I think these differences should be borne in mind when it is ad-
mitted that semiotics of a structuralist stamp has ignored referring.
I don't think anyone has ever denied that we use language for acts
of reference; perhaps it has never been stated with sufficient force-
fulness that the meaning of a term also includes a series of instruc-
tions for identifying the referent of this term (when it is used in a
sentence with referential functions),4
but neither has it ever been
denied that there should be something in the meaning of cat (even
if it is"'meowing feline quadruped animal") that allows us to dis-
tinguish between a cat and a mat when necessary.
Instead, given that the problem facing structuralist semiotics was
how to define the functioning of systems of signs (or of texts), the
emphasis was placed, independently of the world to which they
might refer, eminently on the relation between signifier and signi-
fied, or between expression and content.5
Certainly no one was
doubting that any system of signs could be used to refer to objects
and states of the world; but, in extremely simple terms, it was held
that, to be able to use the word cat to refer to a cat, the speakers had
to agree on the meaning of "cat" beforehand.6
Which was another
way of putting, in a different context,Wittgenstein's later assertion
(1953 §40) that one must not confuse the meaning of a name and
the bearer of a name: "When Mr. N. N. dies, one says that the
bearer of the name dies, not that the meaning dies. And it would be
nonsensical to say that, for if the name ceased to have meaning, it
would make no sense to say 'Mr. N. N. is dead.' "
Structuralist semiotics started from the principle that acts of ref-
erence are possible only insofar as we know the meaning of the
terms used for referring—an idea with its supporters within the
Notes on Referring as Contract I 289
analytic paradigm; see Frege, for example. But unlike Frege, struc-
turalist semiotics did not feel it worth going any deeper into the
phenomenon of referring, considering it an extralinguistic acci-
dent. My suspicion is that the problem has also remained obscure
for truth-functional semantics, and for obvious reasons: the prob-
lem of referring cannot be solved in formal terms, because it has to
do with the intentions of the person speaking and is therefore a
pragmatic problem. As such it has eluded the grasp of both struc-
tural semiotics and model-theoretic semantics. The provocative no-
tion we owe to the theory of rigid designation (even though, as we
shall see, I do not find it convincing)' is that there can be acts of ref-
erence that, at first sight at least, do not presuppose an understand-
ing of the meaning of the terms used for referring.
The true story of the sarkiapone
This is the story of the sarkjapone, a famous humorous sketch from
the Italy of the fifties, performed by the actors Walter Chiari and
Carlo Campanini. For the purposes of my analysis, I have con-
densed the sketch into six phases.
Phase 1. Chiari enters the compartment of a railway train
and greets Campanini and the other travelers. At a certain point
Campanini gets to his feet and reaches up to the luggage rack,
where there is a basket covered with a cloth. He withdraws his
hand suddenly, as if he has been bitten. He asks the others not to
make a noise, so that the sarkiapone, known for its irritability, will
not be disturbed. Chiari, a vainglorious braggart, does not want
people to know that he has no idea what a sarkiapone is; he sets to
chatting about the animal like someone who has been dealing with
sarkiapones all his life.
Phase 2. Not knowing what the sarkiapone is, Chiari opts for
trial and error. For example, having learned from Campanini that
his is an American sarkiapone, Chiari says he has only seen Asiatic
sarkiapones. This allows him to hazard the enunciation of proper-
ties that Campanini's American sarkiapone does not have, but he
29O / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
soon runs into problems. He hints, using gestures, at the typical
"snout" of the sarkiapone, but Campanini stares at him with a
quizzical air and asks what he means by saying that the sarkiapone
has a snout. Chiari adjusts his sights, declaring that in alluding to
the beak, he expressed himself poorly, metaphorically. But no
sooner has he said the word beal^ than he notes an amazed expres-
sion on Campanini's face. Chiari hastens to make amends by refer-
ring to the creature's nose.
Phase 3. From this point on, we have a crescendo of variations
that follow one another thick and fast, in the course of which
Chiari gets more and more stubborn and agitated. Defeated also on
the nose, he turns to the eyes, then immediately after talks about a
single eye. Defeated also on the eyes, he attempts to talk about the
ears. Faced with the flat denial that the sarkiapone has ears, he im-
mediately talks about its fins, then falls back on the chin, the fur,
the wool, the feathers. He makes a tentative attempt to describe the
way the animal walks, only to check himself immediately, saying
that he meant its typical hopping gait. He guesses at the paws, pro-
gressively corrects himself about their number, tries to mention
the wings, has a stab at scales, hints without success at the color
(yellow? blue? red?), uses more and more half words and inter-
rogative syllables in an attempt to "second guess" Campanini's (in-
evitably negative) reaction.8
Phase 4, the climax of the sketch. Exasperated, Chiari bursts into
a violent and cathartic tirade against that "disgusting" beast, that
impossible animal, which has no snout, no beak, no paws, hooves,
claws, fingers, feet, nails, feathers, scales, mane, wattles, eyes, crest,
tongue—he has by now given up trying to figure out what on earth
it is.
Phase 5. Chiari demands that Campanini show the sarkiapone,
the other passengers draw back terrified, and, as Campanini makes
to open the basket, even Chiari is frightened. But then Campanini
seraphically reveals that the sarkiapone does not exist. He shows
Chiari that the basket is empty and confides that he often uses this
trick to fend off the importunate and to keep the compartment to
himself.
Notes on Referring as Contract I 2 9 1
Phase 6. There follows a coda in which Chiari (cocky as ever)
tries to have everybody believe that he knew all along it was a joke.
Are there closed white boxes?
I think the story of the sarkiapone is exemplary. In phase 1, the first
interlocutor posits a term in the discourse, while the other (keeping
to the rules of conversation) presumes—until the emergence of
proof to the contrary—the existence of the corresponding object.9
Given that at first Chiari does not know what properties a sarki-
apone possesses, except for that of being presumably an animal, he
negotiates the corresponding term on trust.
Perhaps I ought to clarify what I mean by "on trust." Although
it has little to do with peering into that "black box," whose contents
I have repeatedly stated I do not wish to inspect, we might none-
theless understand trust as a kind of "white box." A black box is
something that by definition one cannot open, while a white box,
even if closed, might be subsequently opened. We accept white
boxes, especially when they are presented to us adorned with a
handsome ribbon at Christmastime or on a birthday: before open-
ing such a box, we already guess that it contains a present, and we
begin to thank the donor. We put our faith in this person, presum-
ing that he or she is not an oafish prankster bent on surprising us
with an empty box. In the same way, buying something on trust
means having faith in the seller, presuming that the box will effec-
tively hold the guaranteed contents.
In day-to-day communicative interaction, we accept a great
number of references on trust. If someone tells us he must take ur-
gent leave of absence because Virginia is ill, we accept that some-
where or other there is a Virginia, even if we have never heard of
her before. If instead our interlocutor says that we must apply to
Virginia if we wish to be reimbursed for our traveling expenses to
the Chipping Norton conference, we hasten to ask him if by that
name he means the American state or the woman clerk in
Chipping Norton, and we want to know right away how to iden-
tify or find out which is which. But this is an extreme case. Usually,
292 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
unless we have some reason to harbor misgivings, if the speaker
posits someone or something in the discourse, we accept that the
someone or something exists somewhere. We collaborate in the act
of reference, even when we know nothing of the referent and even
when we do not know the meaning of the term used by the
speaker.
In 3.7.1, I related how even though I too am incapable of telling
an elm from a beech, I can easily recognize mangroves (which I
was able to identify one day thanks to having read about them in
many travel books) and banyan trees, about which I had received
plentiful instructions in Emilio Salgari's adventure books. But I
was convinced I knew nothing about the paletuviere (mentioned
equally frequently in Salgari's books), until on reading an encyclo-
pedia one day I discovered that, in Italian, paletuviere is simply an-
other word for mangrovia. Now I could reread Salgari, imagining
mangroves every time he mentioned paletuvieri. But what did I do
for years and years, from childhood on, reading about these paletu-
vieri without knowing what they were? From the context I had de-
duced that they were plants, something like trees or bushes, but
this was the only property I could manage to associate with the
name. Nevertheless, I was able to read on by pretending to know
what they were. I used my imagination to integrate what little I
had been able to glimpse within the half-open box, but in fact I was
taking something on trust. I knew that Salgari was referring to
something, and I kept the communicative interaction open, to be
able to understand the rest of the story, assuming (on trust) that
paletuvieri existed somewhere or other and that they were plants.
Acceptance on trust might be understood as a case of rigid desig-
nation. According to the theory of rigid designators, in a counter-
factual conditional that abstracted every known property from
Aristotle we would still have to consider him the man who was
baptized Aristotle at a determined moment, and by so doing we
would accept on trust that a sort of unbroken bond connected
the current utterance of the name to the individual thus baptized.
But there is one ambiguity (and perhaps more than one) in the the-
ory of rigid designation. On the one hand, we are supposed to as-
Notes on Referring as Contract I 293
sume—through an unbroken chain that binds the object that re-
ceives the name in the moment of its baptism to the name used by
whoever refers to it—that the object is what causes the appropriate-
ness of the reference (Kripke 1972: 298—99). On the other hand,
Kripke maintains that the receiver of the name must intend to use
it with the same reference as the person from whom he has learned
it (Kripke 1972: 302). This is not the same thing.
Given that the sarkiapone does not exist, no object exists that
could have caused the use of the name. Nonetheless there is no
doubt that Chiari agrees to use the name sarkiapone in the same
way Campanini presumably uses it: on trust. If there has been a
causal chain, it therefore runs not from the object to the use of the
name but from (Campanini's) decision to use the name to (Chiari's)
decision to use it as Campanini uses it. We are faced not with a
causality "object —> name" but with a causality "use, of the name —»
use, of the name." I have no intention of solving this problem from
the point of view of a causal theory of reference, since I do not
agree with such theories. We might say that if the sarkiapone ex-
isted and had an essence, we would have "rigid" designation, while
if it was imagined by someone who used that name to baptize a fig-
ment of the imagination, we would have "soft" designation. But I
really do not know what either rigid or soft designation mean, be-
cause while this difference perhaps has ontological importance, it
does not have semiosic importance: the act of reference set in mo-
tion by Campanini and accepted by Chiari would work the same
way in both cases.
The problem seems to me to be different. And it is that the
metaphor of the white box is imprecise. White boxes (just to spin
out the metaphor a little longer) always tell us something about
what is inside, because they inevitably have a label. If I use a proper
noun such as Gideon, I am automatically stating that the bearer of
the name is a human being of the male sex; if I use Dorothy, I am
stating that she is of the female sex; if I insert my brother James
into the discourse, James is already a human being who has the
property of being my brother. Salgari had labeled the paletuvieri as
plants, and—to conclude—if I mention Giuseppe Rossi, there is a
294 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
strong possibility that the person designated is an Italian male, and
if I mention Jean Dupont, there is a strong possibility that he
is French, and if I mention Paolo Sisto Leone Pio Odescalchi
Rospigliosi Colonna, there is a strong possibility that he belongs to
the Roman aristocracy, apart from the fact that (at least originally)
if someone was called Smith, he was described as the son of a
blacksmith, and if he was called Miller, he was the son of a miller.
Too little to be able to identify Peter Smith or Frank Miller as such,
but enough to say that even proper names are not entirely devoid of
content.
Note too that if proper names did not have a content (but only a
designatum), there could not be such a thing as this second type of
antonomasia, which is not the figure in which a general term
par excellence is applied to an individual ("the Emperor" for
Napoleon, "the Voice" for Frank Sinatra) but the figure in which
the name of an individual is used, par excellence, as the sum of
properties (he is a Rambo, Hercules, or Judas; she is a Messalina or
Venus).
At first the story of the sarkiapone seems to be that of an unwary
purchase made on trust, but in reality, by saying that the sarki-
apone must not be disturbed because it is irritable, Campanini is al-
ready attaching a label to our white box (or basket): the sarkiapone
is a living creature. Chiari takes it from there, and instantly uses
the term as a "peg upon which to hang descriptions." His attempts
in phase 3 are aimed at ascertaining the properties of the animal
and therefore at obtaining instructions for the identification and
recognition of the referent. Note that this sketch also exemplifies
the difference between speaking-of and referring-to. Campanini
refers to an individual sarkiapone (in the basket). Chiari accepts the
reference, and it is to that sarkiapone that he refers. But, in order to
establish what it is like, he appeals to the universal, or to general
objects: he asserts that he has come across other sarkiapones and, in
trying to define their properties, he talks of sarkiapones in general,
in other words he is trying to acquire information with which to
construct at least tentatively the NC of sarkiapone and to form its
Notes on Referring as Contract I 295
CT, i.e., to have a chance to recognize the sarkiapone type. To do
this, he always refers to the animal in the basket as if to a token that
ought to exhibit all the properties of the type. You do not negotiate
the reference without bringing content into play.
The dialogue in phase 3 can be understood as a process of "suc-
cessive emptying" of all possible properties, so that the peg for
hanging descriptions on remains exposed. When Campanini denies
all possible properties for the sarkiapone, Chiari is left with little al-
ternative, apparently, but to accept the name in a rigid manner.
And he seems to do this, when in phase 4 he insults the mysterious
beast, accusing it of not corresponding to any possible description.
But he does not stop referring to that cursed being as a "beast."
When Campanini, in phase 5, reveals that the sarkiapone does
not exist, Chiari realizes that he has been talking of a nonexistent
creature, in other words, of a figment of Campanini's imagination,
a fictitious individual that existed only in the possible world of
someone else's tall story. But in phase 6, even after the trick has
been revealed, Chiari still refers to the sarkiapone. Except now he
refers to it not as an element of the real world but as an element of
a world invented by Campanini. We might argue that in phases
1—5 Chiari is talking of a sarkiapone,, which he thought existed,
while in phase 6 he is referring to a sarkiapone,, which he now
knows exists only in a fictitious world. Yet he is still referring to the
sarkiapone that Campanini was talking about, except for the fact
that, before, he attributed it with the property of existing in the real
world and, after, he attributed it with the property of not existing.1 0
The two have reached perfect agreement and know exactly what
they are talking about.
The moral of the story is that (i) referring is an action that speak-
ers perform on the basis of a negotiation; (ii) in principle the act of
reference effected by using a term might have nothing to do with
the knowledge of the meaning of the term or even with the exis-
tence of the referent—with which it has no causal relationship;
(iii) nevertheless, there is no designation definable as rigid that does
not rest on an initial description ("label"), albeit a highly generic
296 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
one; (iv) therefore, even apparent cases of absolutely rigid designa-
tion constitute the start of the referential contract, or the auroral
moment of the relation, but never the final moment.
One might object that we are dealing with a comic sketch.
Would the same thing happen if the dialogue were between two
scientists, one of whom began to talk of a substance X, which she
had discovered, and it was made clear at the end that that sub-
stance did not exist or had none of the properties that the discov-
erer attributed to it? In a similar situation a scientist would behave
differently from the scientific and moral point of view, publicly dis-
crediting whoever had lied to her, but from a semiosic point
of view things would go no differently. In the course of a subse-
quent scientific conference the scientist would continue to cite sub-
stance X as an example of an imaginary substance, the subject of a
scientific fraud (or of a major blunder), but she would continue to
refer to it as the one she had spoken of when, before making the
necessary checks, she had assumed, on trust, that it existed."
I am well aware that there is another interpretation, if not of the
story of the sarkiapone, at least of substance X Some would say
that, as the substance does not exist, the expression substance X has
no referent, nor did it have one when the scientist thought, on
trust, that it did. But to say that an expression cannot be applied to
any referent does not mean to say that it cannot be used for an act
of reference, and this is the point I wish to insist on. In this oscilla-
tion between the possible referent of the term and the use of the
term in an act of reference there lurks an ambiguity that has been
the cause of much debate on the ontology of reference.
The Divine Mind as e-mail
By an ontology of reference I mean above all the philosophical
position according to which individuals (Saint Paul, Napoleon,
Prague, or the Thames) can be defined rigidly, in the sense that,
whatever description we assign to a name, it refers in any case to
something or someone that has been thus baptized in a given mo-
Notes on Referring as Contract I 2 9 7
ment of space-time, and—no matter how many properties may be
denied it—it will always remain that someone or something
(a principium individuationis based on a materia signata quantitate).
However, the ontological theory of reference has also been ex-
tended to the quidditates (the essences, or general objects), which,
even if we did not know them, would be natural constants with an
objectivity of their own above and beyond both our mental acts and
the way in which culture recognizes and organizes them. The ex-
tension of the hypothesis is not unjustified: if it is assumed that a
name of a person can be connected directly to a haecceitas (even a
past and therefore an immaterial one), why can a generic name not
be linked directly to a quidditas? Which is more immaterial, horse-
hood or the haecceitas of Ashurbanipal, of whom I believe we no
longer possess so much as a handful of dust? As we shall see, in
both cases one cannot avoid assuming that the connection is pro-
vided by what Putnam (1981, III) calls noetic rays (which are merely
a theoretical fiction).
From this point of view, for an ontological theory of reference,
the term water would refer to H , 0 in any possible world, just
as the name Napoleon would always refer rigidly to that unicum of
the history of the universe that occurred, genetically, physiologi-
cally, and biographically, once and once only (and would remain
that way even if in some future world governed by radical femi-
nists Napoleon were remembered only as the individual whose sole
property was that of having been the husband of Josephine).
This would be a "strong" ontology, in which the reference to wa-
ter would seem to be independent of all knowledge or intention or
belief on the speaker's part. However, on the one hand this point of
view does not exclude the question of what the reference is, while
on the other hand it does not eliminate the notion of "cognition": it
simply moves both from psychology to theology. What does it
mean if we say that the word water always refers to H , 0 regardless
of all of the speakers' intentions? We would have to explain that
species of ontological wire that binds that word to that essence,
and, just to spin out the metaphor a little longer, we would have to
298 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
think of the essence as a very bristly something from which pro-
trude many wires, which connect it to water, acqua, agua, eau,
Wasser, voda, shut, and even to the term (still nonexistent) that will
be used in 4025 by visitors from Saturn to indicate the transparent
liquid, unknown to them, that they will find on our planet. To ex-
clude the intentions of the speakers, but to forge in some way the
referential bond, a strong ontology would have to presuppose a
Divine Mind, or an Infinite one, if you will. Taking for granted
that the world exists independently of our knowledge of it, and
that it exists as a population of essences reciprocally governed by
laws, only a Mind that knows the world exactly as it is (and as It
created it), and that indulgently accepts that the same essence can
be referred to in different languages, can "fix" the referent in a
stable manner.
To return to the well-known example from Putnam (1975:
223—27), if there existed on a twin Earth something that resembled
the water of this planet in every way, something that looked the
same, had the same flavor and biochemical effects, but nonetheless
was not H , 0 but XYZ, in order to say that whoever (on both plan-
ets) spoke of water would be referring to H , 0 but not to XYZ, we
would have to assume that some Infinite Mind sees things in ex-
actly this way, because only its thought would guarantee the con-
nection between names and essences. But it was Putnam himself
(1981, III), in setting up an internal realism in opposition to the ex-
ternalist point of view, who said that for the latter position to be
tenable, we would need to presuppose a Divine Eye.
But postulating a Divine Mind poses an interesting problem in
terms of intentionality. We must admit that the Divine Mind
"knows" that every utterance of the term water refers to the essence
of water, and that the nature of the intentional relation that binds
the Divine Mind to the content of its "knowledge" eludes our un-
derstanding (and in fact we postulate that things happen this way,
but we do not say how they happen). But what guarantees that all
our utterances of the term water correspond to the intentionality of
the Divine Mind? Clearly nothing, if not our good intentions, i.e.,
that when we speak of water, we intend to do, so to speak, the will
Notes on Referring as Contract I 299
of God and intend (voluntarily) to correspond to the intention of
the Divine Mind.
Note that I say the "intention" and not the "intentionality" of a
Divine Mind. Wondering about the intentionality of a Divine
Mind goes beyond the limits of these humble reflections—and be-
yond those of far prouder reflections too. The problem is that it is
also difficult to decide what corresponding to the intention of a
Divine Mind means.
I admit that there is now a phenomenon that might serve as a
model of a Divine Mind, and of an absolutely rigid designation. It
is the phenomenon of the e-mail address. The "name" constituted
by this address (let's say: adam@eden.being) corresponds to one en-
tity and one alone (it is not necessarily a physical individual, it
might be a company, but only that company and not another). We
can be entirely ignorant of any properties the addressee might have
(Adam might not be the first man, might not have eaten from
the Tree of Knowledge, might not be the husband of Eve, etc.), but
we know that that name (address) points to (via a chain of electrical
phenomena that it is not worth analyzing in detail here but whose
efficiency we witness daily) an individual entity distinguishable
from all others, independently of our beliefs, opinions, lexical
knowledge, and of the knowledge we have about the way in which
it "points." In the course of time we could associate many proper-
ties with that name, but we do not need to: we know that if we type
it into our mail program, we will reach that address and not an-
other.1 2
And we know that everything depends on a baptismal cer-
emony, and that the referential power of the address we use is
causally due to that baptism.
But a phenomenon of this kind (so absolutely "pure" and beyond
argument, independent of the intentions and the competence of all
correspondents) exists only in e-mail. That the e-mail system may
be a model of the Divine Mind may appear both reassuring
and blasphemous, but there is no doubt that it is the only case in
which we use an absolutely rigid designation in accordance with
what is at least the model of a Divine Network, if not of a Divine
Mind.
30O / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
From the Divine Mind to the Intention of the Community
How do we withdraw from a strong ontology, guaranteeing at the
same time a certain objectivity of the reference? By thinking up a
weak ontology of the Mind of the Community (whose privileged
representatives are, depending on the field, the Experts). In this
sense referring correctly to water means referring to it in the same
way as the community of experts—who agree that water is H , 0
today but tomorrow, by taking the fallibilism of knowledge into
due account, might opt for another definition. But in no way does
this solve the problem posed by the hypothesis of the Divine Mind:
what guarantee do we have that when we use the word water in an
act of reference, we are using it as the Mind of the Community
does? The answer lies simply in our (voluntaristic) decision to use
that word in the same sense as the experts do.
Now, in the sketch about the sarkiapone, was Chiari doing any-
thing different when he decided to use the word sarkiapone the
same way Campanini used it? Chiari simply assumed that
Campanini was an Expert. Is there is an ontological difference
between Campanini's opinion and Einstein's? There is only our
persuasion that, statistically speaking, our encyclopedias register
Einstein as a qualified expert while they do not mention
Campanini (and I grant there are good reasons for this preference).
This means to say that, when we speak, we have an idea, some-
times vague and sometimes precise, about some matters covered by
the consensus of the Community.
But while the terms describing so-called natural kinds (such as
water and gold) suggest that there is an expert as a Privileged
Interlocutor (an interpreter authorized by the Community), this
is not the case with my cousin Arthur, Mafalda's cat, or the first
hominid to reach Australia. Here there is ample possibility of a
contract, because here Campanini's word is as good as Einstein's.
For example, faced with the sentence Napoleon was bom in
Cambridge, convinced as I am that my Napoleon was born in
Ajaccio, by no means do I agree to use the name according to the
intentions of the Community, because, out of the principle of char-
Notes on Referring as Contract I 301
ity at least, I immediately suspect that the speaker intends to refer
to another Napoleon. Therefore I do my best to check the appropri-
ateness of the reference, trying to induce my interlocutor to inter-
pret the NC that he makes correspond to the name Napoleon, to
discover perhaps that his Napoleon is a used car salesman born in
this century, and so I find myself faced with a banal case of
homonymy. Or I realize that my interlocutor intends to refer to my
Napoleon, and therefore intends to make a historical proposition
that defies current encyclopedic notions (and therefore the Mind of
the Community). In such a case I would proceed to ask him for
convincing proof of his proposition.
But now let us try to take seriously the decision to use a term ac-
cording to the intention and the consensus of the Experts or
the Community. Let us suppose that, faced with the threat of
extinction of the African elephant, the ECO (Elephant Control
Organization) realizes that (i) there are three thousand elephants in
the Kwambia area, more than the number that the ecological bal-
ance can sustain (the elephants ruin the crops and therefore the
population is led to slaughter them, whereas, if their number were
lower, they might be tolerated); (ii) in the Bwana area, the ele-
phants, slaughtered by ivory poachers, are on the verge of extinc-
tion (strict laws have been passed that might ensure their survival,
but the number of them in circulation is too low to guarantee the
continuity of the species); (iii) it is necessary to capture a thousand
elephants in Kwambia and transfer them to Bwana; (iv) the con-
federation of African States and the World Wildlife Fund have ap-
proved the operation and have ordered the officers of the ECO to
carry it out. In the course of these preliminaries, reference was
made to Kwambia and Bwana, and the supposition is that there is
an agreement regarding the referent of these territorial names.
Now all the three thousand elephants in Kwambia are being desig-
nated, one by one, and the assertion is that one thousand of these
will have to be transferred to Bwana. It is not yet known which an-
imals the one thousand will be, but, just as we can designate a child
about to be born, it is possible to designate a thousand elephants
that, on the day of the transfer to Bwana, will be exactly those and
302 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
not other individuals. The problem is ensuring that the officers of
the ECO have an exact knowledge of the meaning of the term
elephant and do not transfer rhinoceroses or hippopotamuses by
mistake.
It is not enough to say that the officers of the ECO intend to use
the term elephant to refer to the same genus of creatures that the
Experts are referring to. This understanding, based on the Expert's
goodwill, is good only for getting the discourse under way. The
Experts want to be sure that there is no possibility of misunder-
standing. Therefore they communicate to the officers in charge
that by elephant they mean an animal that, according to official sci-
ence, has the properties XYZ, and they also provide instructions for
the recognition of animals with such properties. If the officers in
charge agree and state they want to capture and transfer a thou-
sand specimens of animal XYZ, the operation may begin.
At this point it is irrelevant to state that the officers of the ECO
intend to use the term according to the Experts' intention. As a
matter of fact, between them and the Experts there is the beneficial
space of a series of interpretants (descriptions, photos, drawings)
and it is on these that the agreement is based. If by chance there are
some very rare white elephants in Kwambia, the contracting par-
ties will have to agree on whether the term elephant includes or ex-
cludes white elephants, given that the correctness of the ecological
operation depends on this agreement.
Yet again, rigid designation has had an introductory function, to
get the contract under way, but it is not on this basis that the con-
tract is concluded.
Quid pro quo and negotiations
Let us suppose that someone tells us a peace conference was held in
Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748 and that we do not know that Aix-la-
Chapelle is the other name for the city of Aachen. We find our-
selves confronted with a "white box" that is still unopened and that
is not the one in which we habitually collocate the city of Aachen.
Perhaps the matter interests us so little that we drop all negotia-
Notes on Referring as Contract I 303
tions; perhaps we request further information, asking questions
about that strange city, our curiosity aroused by the fact that an-
other peace conference was held at the same time as the one held in
Aachen; and finally perhaps, out of the principle of charity, we im-
mediately suppose that by the name Aix-la-Chapelle the speaker
meant to refer to the same city that we call Aachen. But in any case
we would see how much our encyclopedic knowledge, and there-
fore our knowledge about content, conditions and directs our ne-
gotiations for the success of the reference.
Such knowledge also makes it possible to solve the apparent
paradox (my example is a somewhat free elaboration of an idea
taken from Kripke 1979) of a certain Pierre who had always heard
tell in France of Londres and had conceived the idea that it was a
most beautiful city, and so he wrote in his diary, Londres est une ville
merveilleuse; and then he chanced to go to Great Britain to learn
English from the source and visited a city called by its inhabitants
London. He found it intolerable and wrote in his faithful diary (un-
fortunately for us a bilingual one), London is an ugly city. Hence the
fears of his Italian translator, who would have to make him say
(contradictorily) that Londra is both beautiful and ugly at one and
the same time—not to mention the misgivings of logicians who
would not know how to deal with two so shamelessly contradictory
statements, et cetera.
All this amounts to an injustice with regard to translators, logi-
cians, and normal people. The story offers two possibilities: after
having visited the place and on the basis of some description Pierre
received when someone told him about London (English city on a
river, with a Tower), either Pierre realized that there was only one
city where before he had believed there were two, or he is an imbe-
cile who accepted the first reference to Londres on trust, without
knowing anything other than that it was a city, and never under-
stood that the names Londres and London refer to the same object.
In the first case, let's give Pierre a chance to converse with other
people and correct his beliefs, and perhaps to say that at first he
thought (on the basis of unverified rumors) that London was beau-
tiful, and later on he discovered it was ugly. In the second case,
304 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Pierre remains locked in his cognitive and semantic confusion,
and—apart from the fact that at this point one wonders why the
diaries of an imbecile merit translation—the translator will have to
insert some notes, to make it clear that we are dealing with an in-
teresting semiotic and psychiatric document, because Pierre is one
of those men who mistakes his wife for a hat or talks of Napoleon
Bonaparte (as first consul and the loser of Waterloo) with the inten-
tion of referring to himself. All of which is of interest to psychiatry,
not semantics.
Note that misunderstandings of this type are far commoner than
suggested by the example—chosen with a taste for the improba-
ble—that we have just examined. A collector of old books may see
in a catalogue that the first (1662) edition of Gaspar Schott's Physica
Curiosa was published in Wiirzburg. Then in another catalogue he
finds that the first edition was published in the same year in
Herbfpolis. Therefore he notes in his diary that there are two edi-
tions of the same work from the same year, in two different
cities—not an unusual phenomenon at that time. But a little extra
information would enable him to verify that the pleasant Bavarian
town of Wiirzburg includes among its encyclopedic properties the
fact that it was previously designated as Herbipolis (and that the
German name is simply a translation of the Latin name). End of
the tragedy. All he had to do was ask. When they listen to acts of
reference, people usually as\ lots of questions. If our collector does
not know enough to ask (or consult highly precise lexicons on such
matters), then he simply becomes the subject of an amusing anec-
dote, like the student who (and this is apparently true) mentioned
in a term paper essay the "well-known" debate between Voltaire
and Arouet.
All in all, it seems to me that these contractual conditions,
backed up by cognitive operations, provide a picture of what we ef-
fectively do when we refer to something that is more faithful than
the one portrayed by ontological theories of reference. None of this
amounts to a suggestion on my part that the question of ontological
reference—or the treasures of subtlety that have been spent on set-
tling it—is a trivial matter. And not just because the question is of
Notes on Referring as Contract I 305
particular importance in the universe of scientific discourse, where
if two astronomers talk about the G 1 4 nebula, they must be sure of
what they are saying: even referring to the G 1 4 nebula is a matter
for negotiation, certainly more so than occurs in our day-to-day
acts of reference (in which we often decide to "let it drop"), and
certainly according to far stricter criteria. The problem lies rather
in the fact that to be able to refer continuously and pragmatically,
we need the regulative idea of ontological reference.
The strange case of Doctor Jekyll and the brothers Hyde
In London there are two brothers, John and Bob Hyde, identical
twins and alike in every respect. The two (don't ask me why, but
evidently they like it this way) decide to create a single public per-
sonality, Doctor Jekyll, and they prepare for this from earliest
childhood. They study medicine together, begin their internship,
become a doctor (Jekyll) of considerable renown, who is nominated
director of the University Hospital. Right from the start, the broth-
ers observe a rule: they impersonate Jekyll on alternate days. When
John is Jekyll, Bob stays at home eating canned food and watching
television, and vice versa the following day. In the evening, the one
who comes home from work tells the other all about his day in
meticulous detail, so that the next day the other can take his place
and no one will notice the substitution.
One day, John, who is on duty, embarks on an affair with a col-
league, Doctor Mary. Naturally the next day, Bob carries on the re-
lationship, and so the affair continues, to the enormous satisfaction
of the three protagonists: John and Bob in love with the same
woman, Mary convinced that she loves one man.
Now if Mary tells her best friend, Ann, from whom she has no
secrets, Yesterday I went out with Jekyll, and granting that Bob was
on duty yesterday evening, who is Mary referring to? An ontologi-
cal theory of reference would allow us to say that, even if Mary
thinks that Bob's name is Jekyll, since she is referring to the person
she went out with yesterday evening (who was christened Bob
Hyde when he was a baby), she is referring to Bob. But if, this
306 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
evening, she spends a night of passion with John, and the following
day again tells Ann that she went out with Jekyll, to whom is Mary
referring? Although she believes that John Hyde's name is Jekyll,
from the point of view of a Divine Mind she is referring to John.
Therefore she refers to different people on alternate days, through
the same mistaken name, but she does not know it.
It is clear that from a pragmatic point of view this double refer-
ence is of minimal importance for us (as it is for her). A celestial ac-
countant, who had to take into consideration the exactitude of all
the acts of reference pronounced in the world, would probably
have registered that on the fifth of December Jekyll was Bob, and
on the sixth he was John. John and Bob might want to see them-
selves from the point of view of an Infinite Mind, because it might
be very important for them to know if, in the course of her confi-
dences with Ann, Mary judges one evening more satisfactory than
the previous one. But John and Bob are indeed exceptional charac-
ters, whose function in this story of mine is that of the deus ex
machina, and therefore we shall take no notice of their referential
accounting (besides, I fancy that they too have lost count). The ac-
counting that interests us is that of Mary and of all those in London
who know Doctor Jekyll (and are unaware of the existence of the
Hyde brothers).
For all these people, every reference to Doctor Jekyll is the refer-
ence not to an essence but to an actor in the social comedy, and in this
sense any one of them knows one Doctor Jekyll and one only. They
have a CT of him, they can list some of his properties, and they
speak of him and no one else. Anyone who has been treated
by Doctor Jekyll, has signed a contract with him, has received a
good check from him, has told someone to find him Doctor Jekyll
(and had his wish fulfilled), or says he has spoken with Doctor
Jekyll and means to be believed, behaves as if there were one Doc-
tor Jekyll and one only.
From an ontological point of view, we might say that Doctor
Jekyll does not exist, that he is only a social figment, an aggregate
of legal properties. But this social figment is sufficient to make
every proposition concerning Doctor Jekyll socially true or false.
Notes on Referring as Contract I 307
One day, while John is on duty, he trips on the stairs and breaks
his ankle. He is immediately taken to the hospital orthopedist,
Doctor Holmes, who takes an X-ray, puts the ankle in plaster, gives
John two splendid aluminum crutches, and sends him home in a
taxi. Fiendishly clever, the two brothers understand that it is not
enough for Bob to put his foot in plaster: Doctor Holmes might
want to replace the plaster, and would discover the deception.
Heroically, Bob, after having made a careful study of his brother's
X ray (we must remember they are both doctors), takes a hammer
and with one precise blow breaks his ankle too, puts the foot in
plaster, and shows up at the hospital the following morning.
The thing might work, but Holmes is highly meticulous. At the
time of the accident, he ordered some blood tests on Jekyll-John;
and a few days later, worried about an excess of triglycerides, he re-
peats the tests, but this time on Bob. And he notices that the results
of the two tests do not coincide. Having no reason to suspect (so
far) a deception, he presumes there has been an error and ingenu-
ously speaks of the matter to Bob. That evening the two brothers
put their heads together, scrutinize the results of the tests, and one
of the two decides to go on a strict diet to bring his level of triglyc-
erides to that of his brother. They do what they can, but it is not
enough to fool Doctor Holmes, who—after the tests have been
made again, and twice at that, and by a trick of fate on both John
and Bob—still notices a discrepancy. Holmes begins to suspect the
truth.
The two brothers engage in a deadly struggle with their enemy.
In various ways they try to ensure that the fracture heals in the
same time, they continue with their rigorous diet, but tiny details
make Doctor Holmes more and more suspicious. He injects one of
the two with an allergen that has an effect within twenty hours and
lasts two days, and he notices that after injecting Jekyll with the
substance on Tuesday at 5 P.M., on Wednesday at the same time the
effects still have not manifested themselves. But on Thursday they
appear. Holmes has grounds to conjecture that there are two
people involved, but he has no convincing proof to show in public.
One way of ending the story would be that Doctor Holmes
308 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
manages to reveal the deception. From that moment (not consider-
ing all the legal, romantic, or social problems that would result) the
social body would have to decide that the name Jekyll is a homo-
nym indicating two different people. Among other things, even if
they were sentenced to prison, the two brothers would be obliged
by the judge to wear a lapel badge stating their blood group and
other medical-biological data, so that they might be recognized.
The other (more appealing) solution is that Doctor Holmes does
not attain absolute certainty, nor does he manage to exhibit any de-
cisive proof of the deception, because the two brothers are smarter
than he is. The affair therefore continues ad infinitum, in a sort of
hunt in which the prey always eludes the hunter but the hunter
does not give up.
But in this case what interests us is: Why does the hunter not
give up? Because Holmes, although used to pragmatic ways of re-
ferring like everybody else, has his own stubborn idea of ontologi-
cal reference. He believes that, if Jekyll exists, there is an essence, a
"Jekyll" haecceitas that represents the parameter of an ontologically
true reference. Or he believes that, if two different people were to
exist in place of Jekyll, as he suspects, at a certain point he ought to
identify two different haecceitates. Remember that Holmes does not
know which principium individuationis he is hunting for: it could be
a particular composition of the blood, a minimal variation in two
electrocardiograms, something that could be revealed by a scan or
an intestinal exploration, the discovery of two different genetic
makeups, a miraculous X ray of the soul... Holmes tries every-
thing; he will always be defeated, but he will not stop searching, be-
cause he postulates the essence, that is, the Thing-in-Itself, which is
not the Unknowable but the very postulate of infinite research.1 3
This persuasion that an ontological point of view may exist can
be found in Peirce's notion of the final logical interpretant, the
wholly ideal moment in which knowledge coincides with the total-
ity of the thinkable. This is a regulative concept, which does not
hinder the progress of semiosis but does not discourage it either, so
to speak, and let it be understood that, even if it is infinite, the
process of interpretation tends toward something. Like Peirce,
Notes on Referring as Contract I 309
Holmes thinks that by continuing to search, he is carrying forward
the Torch of Truth, and that in the long run the Community might
agree to an incontestable final assertion. He knows that the long
run could last for millennia, but Holmes has a philosophical and
scientific mind, and he believes that those who come after him will
arrive at the truth, perhaps through the examination of puzzling
osteological evidence some hundreds of years later. He does not as-
pire to knowing: he aspires to carry on searching. Holmes could
even be a relativist, who believes that we can provide infinite de-
scriptions of the world as it is, and yet he is also a realist (in the
sense of Searle 1995: 155) for whom a profession of realism does not
mean to assert that we can know the way things are, and not even
that we can say something definitively "true" about them. Realism
means only to assume that there is a way in which they are, and that
this way does not depend on us or on whether or not we will one
day know it.1 4
Holmes has found a photo of Doctor Jekyll in the hospital
archives. By now convinced of the existence of the two Hyde broth-
ers (even though he perhaps does not call them this way), he knows
with absolute certainty that, if the photo is a snapshot taken at a
certain time on a certain day, it can be only causally connected to
one of the two brothers (of whose existence, as Peirce would have
put it, it is an index), and this is for him (as it is for us) an in-
confutable certainty. But the photo is of no use to him at all, it is not
even the proof that his hypothesis is right. It is the certainty alone
that his hypothesis is right that drives him to think that the photo
is causally connected to only one of the two individuals who im-
personate Jekyll on alternate days. For anyone else the photo is
causally linked to Doctor Jekyll, and social credence prevails over
the ontological datum that is hidden, presumed, believed, but inac-
cessible.
What is the moral of our story? That in everyday life we always
have to do with pragmatic acts of reference, and it would be our
hard luck if we made too much of a problem of it. But to ensure the
development of knowledge, we can invoke the ghost of ontological
reference as a postulate that permits research in progress.
310 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Is Jones mad?
Let's get back to negotiation. I apologize for reusing a decidedly
overworked example, but after the impudence with which I have
reflected on bachelors, nothing embarrasses me anymore. Let us re-
turn to the renowned example used by Donnellan (1966) to distin-
guish between the referential and attributive use of a sentence.1
'
Used referentially, the sentence Smith's murderer is mad means that
that description is intended to indicate a specific person, known
both to the speaker and the listener; used attributively (to assess
the brutality of the crime), it means to say that whoever has the
property of being Smith's murderer also has the property of being
mad.
Unfortunately, the matter is not that simple, and here is an (in-
complete) list of the various situations in which the sentence could
be uttered:
(i) The speaker means to refer to Jones, who was caught as he
was killing Smith with a power saw.
(ii) The speaker means to refer to whoever murdered Smith
with a power saw.
(iii) The speaker means (ii), but he does not know that in reality
Smith is not dead (he was saved in extremis by Doctor
Jekyll). In fact, there should not be a referent for the
expression Smith's murderer, but the principle of charity
prompts one to imagine that the speaker means to refer to
the unsuccessful murderer (who would still be mad, and
incompetent into the bargain).
(iv) The speaker means (ii), but the speaker is probably mad,
because no one has made an attempt on Smith's life. The
listeners understand that the speaker is making a
hallucinatory reference to an individual or a situation from
the possible world of his beliefs.
(v) The speaker believes (mistakenly) that Smith has been
murdered, that the murderer is Jones, and that everybody
knows this. If the listeners do not know that the speaker
Notes on Referring as Contract I 3 1 1
harbors these strange beliefs, we are in situation (iv). If the
speaker goes on to make his beliefs explicit, the listeners
will understand that he is referring to Jones. Now it will
be necessary to decide whether the speaker thought Jones
was mad because Jones was Smith's murderer or for other
reasons (with the result that the speaker will still think
Jones mad, even though Jones did not murder
Smith).
(vi) Smith really has been murdered, and the speaker believes
that the murderer is Jones (while everybody knows it was
Donnellan). The interlocutors do not know the speaker's
beliefs and think he means to say that Donnellan is mad
(which is clearly false, because Donnellan has murdered
Smith for scientific reasons, so as to be able to work on the
difference between attributive and referential use). I imagine
that, if the conversation went on for a little, it might be
possible to clear up the misunderstanding but—as in (v)—
extra information will be required to establish whether the
speaker means to refer to Jones, though Jones is innocent, as
a madman.
(vii) Smith really has been murdered, and the speaker believes
that the murderer is Jones (while everybody knows it is
Donnellan). But the listeners know that the speaker is biased
against Jones and has repeatedly stated that he believes him
to be Smith's murderer, and therefore they understand that
the speaker means to refer to Jones.
(viii) The Smith murder trial is coming to an end, and in the dock
Donnellan is listening to the sentence that officially defines
his guilt. The speaker (a psychiatrist) has just entered the
courtroom and thinks that Donnellan is a certain Jones he
had known in the mental hospital. He is therefore referring
to Jones and not Donnellan. Naturally the listeners believe
he is referring to Donnellan. But I imagine that they will ask
him to explain his judgment, and in the course of the
conversation the referential misunderstanding might be
cleared up.
312 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
This is a set of cases in which the reference is negotiated, and in
which we cannot speak of an act of reference that is independent of
the intentions and knowledge of the speaker and that points to a
haecceitas of which the speaker knows nothing.
What does Nancy want?
But the same distinction between referential and attributive use
leaves many borderline cases uncovered. Let's take a look at an-
other famous example, reworked for the occasion.
Let's suppose that I say, Nancy wants to marry an analytic philoso-
pher. We can give two semantic interpretations, (i) and (ii), of this
sentence that are possible even when the sentence is uttered out of
context, and at least three pragmatic interpretations, (iii) through
(v), that depend on some inferences regarding the speaker's inten-
tions. 'Interpretations (iii) through (v) can be attempted only after a
decision has been made between (i) and (ii):
(i) Nancy wants to marry a determined individual X, who is an
analytic philosopher.
(ii) Nancy wants to marry anybody, as long as he is an analytic
philosopher.
(iii) Nancy wants to marry a determined individual, an analytic
philosopher: she knows who he is, but the speaker doesn't,
because Nancy has not told him the name.
(iv) Nancy wants to marry a determined individual X, an analytic
philosopher: she has also given the speaker the name and
introduced them to each other, but out of discretion the
speaker has thought it more fitting to avoid going into details.
(v) Nancy has taken a fancy to a fellow and wants to marry him;
she has the told the speaker who he is; the speaker happens to
know that the person in question is an analytic philosopher.
At this point it is irrelevant whether or not Nancy knows that
the fellow is an analytic philosopher, or whether or not the
speaker has told her. The fact is that, as Nancy is doing her
dissertation on Derrida, the speaker thinks that the two of
Notes on Referring as Contract I 313
them will never understand each other and that their marriage
is doomed to fail. He tells his interlocutors (who know Nancy's
ideas very well) of his perplexity.
Interpretations (iii) through (v) depend on interpretation (i), that
is to say, on the decision, which has been made, to consider the sen-
tence referential. The listeners will presumably ask for more infor-
mation about this X, and in that case the speaker must either
confess that he does not know him (case (iii), both he and the lis-
teners must accept the reference on trust), or justify reticence (case
(iv), only the listeners must accept the reference on trust), or pro-
vide instructions for X's identification or retrieval (by opening our
"white box"). Or the listeners are uninterested in the identity of the
speaker (this piece of gossip is juicy only because X is an analytic
philosopher), and there the matter stops.
This leaves interpretation (ii), which at first sight would seem to
point to an attributive use of the sentence. But, above all, we should
note that attributive use (a la Donnellan) is also a case of referring.
As a matter of fact, although the speaker did indeed define who-
ever killed Smith as a madman, in reality his supposition was that
Smith was killed by a specific individual (albeit an unknown one as
yet), and that was the individual he was referring to, even though
on trust. Talking of Smith's murderer was like talking of the first
victim of the Second World War. The unknown X who killed
Smith was mad; that precise X who was killed before anyone else
was unlucky. But madness and bad luck are predicated of an X,
who, while remaining socially or historically or juridically indefin-
able, is ontologically defined.
But here we are talking not about whom Nancy may marry (in
which case that man, even unknown, would still be one person and
one only). Nor are we talking about whomever Nancy will marry,
that is, net possible husband, in which case it would be as if a preg-
nant woman talked of the child to be born to her in a few months:
whatever it may be, it will certainly be the son/daughter born of
her womb at a fairly specific moment and equipped with a given
genetic inheritance (or it might not be born, and this is precisely
3 1 4 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
why it is possible). We are talking about whom Nancy would like to
marry. The entity in question is not only possible but also optative.
The individual whom Nancy is said to want to marry is not only
undefined as yet but also might never even come on the scene (and
Nancy would remain single). To the extent that she is prepared to
marry whoever has the property of being an analytic philosopher,
she is in love with a property, as if she wishes to marry whoever has
a mustache. Perhaps during her wildest erotic fantasies, Nancy has
assigned a face to this imprecise X, imagining that he looks like
Robert De Niro. She is prepared to compromise on looks, height,
and age, as long as her X is an analytic philosopher, and therefore
Kripke or Putnam would be equally good for her, but certainly not
Robert De Niro.
Nancy (or whoever is talking about her intentions) is referring
not to an individual but to a class of possible individuals, and there-
fore she is not performing an act of reference. Nancy's X is a gen-
eral object, such as cats in general. And since I feel it is inopportune
to talk of referring in the case of general objects, the sentence ought
to be translated as Nancy has the property of appreciating analytic
philosophers (in general) and of desiring them as possible husbands, or
Among their many properties, analytic philosophers also possess that of
being desirable to Nancy. Even though this would still be a reference
to Nancy, it would not be a reference to any specific analytic
philosopher.
We should also consider that it is by no means certain that
Nancy wants to marry whoever is an analytic philosopher. It might
mean that she intends to get married, has not yet decided with
whom, but definitely wants the chosen one to be an analytic
philosopher. Also, she does not intend to throw in her lot with just
any analytic philosopher, only with an analytic philosopher she
likes. If a marriage broker suggests she try Marco Santambrogio
(who has the dual property of being an analytic philosopher and
remarkably good-looking) Nancy might grumble, for example, be-
cause she does not appreciate his vis polemica.
Before saying that Nancy has a difficult character, let us ac-
knowledge how difficult it is to negotiate referring, because this
Notes on Referring as Contract I 315
last case involved negotiating, beforehand, to see whether we were
dealing with a case of referring or not.
On the other hand, who is Nancy? One presumes that the
speakers are not fools: if there were many people with the same
name in their circle, they would do well to ask for specifications.
Unless they think it wiser to let the interlocutor, who is perhaps a
little tipsy, to ramble on, that "white box" ought to be opened im-
mediately.1 7
Nevertheless there is someone who has assumed the name Nancy
in a highly rigid fashion, and that someone is we, I the writer and
you the readers of these pages. We do not know who Nancy is (ex-
cept that she is a girl with a weakness for analytic philosophers—a
case of a labeled "white box"). But all things considered, we are not
all that interested in knowing more about her. It was enough for us
to know that she is the girl that the fellow in the example was talk-
ing about, and if someone will be so good as to talk to others about
this book, Nancy will be the girl on whom I carried out this exer-
cise in referring as contract. No one will be able to deny that for
some pages we were referring precisely to her.1 8
Who died on the fifth of May?
A puzzling digression. Some people think that descriptions do not
help to fix the reference. We have seen that there is no reference
that does not acquire substance with some description. But there
are cases in which it seems that the reference is fixed through de-
scriptions only, leaving the name out of consideration.
The Italian writer Alessandro Manzoni wrote an ode called
"5 maggio" (5 May) that deals with the death of Napoleon. How-
ever, those who go to read it again will notice that the name
Napoleon is never mentioned. If we were to sum the ode up rather
brutally in terms of macropropositions (and without any respect for
its artistic value), we would say that the speaker is telling us:
(i) The person of whom I am speaking (to whom I am expressing
my sentiments) is no more.
3 1 6 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
(ii) This person was characterized by a series of properties: he rose
to great heights, fell, rose again; he performed memorable
deeds from the Alps to the coasts of Africa, from the Iberian
peninsula to the borders of France and Germany; it is unsure
whether his was real glory, but there is no doubt that God saw
him as a sublime representative of the human species; he
tasted victory, power, and exile (and twice at that, as he knew
both triumph and defeat); he may be considered the arbiter of
two centuries; for a long time he planned to write his memoirs
recalling the events of his past, etc.
Those who do not know that the ode was written in 1821 and
that therefore the date 5 May refers implicitly to a precise day
in that year, and those who do not know that Napoleon died on
that day (which our encyclopedia has registered, by antonomasia
or mdtonymy, as the date of his death), would have no other in-
structions—apart from the rather vague description offered by
Manzoni—with which to identify the person designated. I have no
desire to attempt an inspection of universal history, but I am fairly
convinced we would find another historical figure to whom this
description could very well apply. With a little goodwill, and by
understanding some expressions as metaphors or hyperboles, some-
one might apply it to Nixon or to the great Italian cyclist Fausto
Coppi.
This is a very difficult case for many theories of reference, be-
cause we know that that text refers to Napoleon only on the basis
of much circumstantial and intertextual negotiation (and conven-
tion). Without these negotiations, the text would be most obscure,
referentially speaking.
But let's make things more complex. Let's suppose that Manzoni
(who luckily was not a wag of this type) wrote an ode very similar
to the sketch about the sarkiapone, which went roughly like this: "I
sing of the death of a Great man. All I will tell you of this man is
that he did not rise to great heights, did not fall, did not rise again;
he did not perform memorable deeds from the Alps to the coasts of
Notes on Referring as Contract I 3 1 7
Africa, or from the Iberian peninsula to the borders of France and
Germany; he was by no means the arbiter of two centuries, and,
come to think of it, he is not even dead."
How could we understand his reference to this man (to whom
he was evidently continuing to refer)? We would give him carte
blanche, in the expectation that he would tell us something more
about this person. We would still be unsure as to whether he meant
to talk of Julius Caesar, Henry VIII, of his next-door neighbor, or
of any other individual you care to choose from the billions who
have populated the planet. Endorsing this carte blanche would be a
form of acceptance of a really "soft" designation. It would have to
be admitted, to keep the interaction going, that he was talking
about someone who appeared somewhere or other, who was con-
ceived with a certain genetic program, probably baptized in some
way or other by his parents or by whoever saw him the first time,
but what would not be known (for the moment) is who this person
was. Nevertheless the designation would not be completely soft:
the description given would lead us to exclude Napoleon at least.
Have I perhaps hypothesized an impossible communicative in-
teraction? Of course not; things of this kind happen often, such
as when someone says, / met a fantastic girl at the disco yesterday
evening, you can't even imagine what she's like! And what do we do?
We wait for the rest of the story. But we know that the reference is
to a women and not to a man.
Impossible objects
According to one of its interpretations, the sentence about Nancy
brings optative possibilia into play. Sentences such as We will have a
son and call him Louis, or / am certain I will find the man of my life in
Hong Kong are cases of reference to optative possibilia. The same
holds for I'm waiting for my croissants to arrive, insofar as at the mo-
ment they were ordered, croissants in general were required, but at
the moment they arrive, they are undoubtedly wholly individual
croissants possessed by the speaker. As they are optative possibilia,
318 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
these individual things might also (successively) not exist: but refer-
ences to possibilia can be made. Is it possible to make references to
impossibilia or, in any event, to inconceivable objects?
I should like to avoid the usual squared circle which is a general
object like the unicorn (and at best a formal individual; see 3.7.7).
But if I say The highest prime number will be discovered in 2005, I am
referring not only to an optative possibilium but also to something
inconceivable.
All impossible objects are inconceivable, but not all inconceiv-
able objects are impossible. For example, a limitless universe is
more than our imagination can handle, but it is not impossible in
principle. On the other hand, becoming the son of our own son
seems impossible as well as inconceivable (at least as long as we live
in a universe with open causal chains and not loops). But what dis-
tinguishes both conceivable and inconceivable possibilia is the im-
possibility of constructing a CT and NC for them (I maintain that
for inconceivable possibilia it is possible to construct an MC, but I'm
not sure of what type).
Since it has been said that it is possible to refer (completely on
trust) to objects whose NC is unknown, which would therefore be
objects impossible to identify, recognize, retrieve, or even interpret,
it seems clear that we can also refer to inconceivable objects. The
fact that many novels or science-fiction movies talk of characters
who travel backward in time and meet themselves as youngsters,
or become their own fathers—and the fact that we are able to fol-
low these stories (albeit with a certain sense of vertigo)—proves
that we can nominate inconceivable objects and therefore (since re-
ferring is a use we put language to) refer to them.1 9
In Eco (1990, 3.5.6.) it was shown that not only can we name
these objects but also, as a result of a cognitive illusion, we get the
impression that we can conceive them. There are cognitive and ref-
erential ambiguities just as there are perceptual ambiguities. We
have the impression not only that we can refer to these objects but
also that we can, so to speak, open the "white box" that contains
them, in the sense that if we examine them in toto, we can't man-
age to conceive them, but if we examine them one piece at a time,
Notes on Referring as Contract I 319
Figure 5. /
we have the impression that they may have a form, even though we
are unable to describe it. Besides, if someone gives us what are rec-
ognizably bicycle parts but taken from bicycles of different makes,
so that in the end we cannot manage to assemble them, it does not
follow from this that we have failed to recognize them as the parts
of a dismantled (possible and optative) bicycle.
A visual example of an impossible possible world is the famous
drawing as shown in figure 5.1, an archetype of many visual impos-
sibilia.
At first sight this figure seems to represent a "possible" object,
but, if we follow its lines in accordance with their spatial orienta-
tion, we realize that an object of this kind cannot exist (in our uni-
verse, at least). However, and this is what I am doing at this
moment (not only verbally but visually), I can refer to that figure
(which, apart from anything else, is found in many psychology
texts).2 0
But that's not all; I can provide either a person or a com-
puter with instructions for constructing it. The objection that, by so
doing, one is referring to the expression (the graphic signifier) but
not to the object, does not hold water. As I have already said, in Eco
(1994: 100), the difficulty does not consist in conceiving this figure
as a graphic expression; we can easily draw it, and therefore it is not
geometrically impossible, at least in terms of plane geometry. The
difficulty arises when we cannot avoid seeing the figure as a two-
dimensional expression of a three-dimensional object. It would be
320 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Figure 5.2
sufficient for us not to understand shading as a graphic sign that
stands for the shadows of a three-dimensional object, and the figure
would be easily perceivable. But we cannot manage to avoid the
hypoiconic effect (see the discussion on "surrogate stimuli" in 6.7).
And it is certainly the "interpreted" figure we are referring to.
A persuasive explanation of the cognitive illusion is supplied by
Merrell (1981: 1 8 1 ) , who offers us a segmented version of the image
as shown in figure 5.2.
If we observe in isolation either zone A or zone B of the figure,
each one presents itself as a possible three-dimensional object. It is
simply that in zone A we see cylinders, while in zone B we see par-
allelepiped. The zone ADB can be seen alternatively either as part
of A or part of B (if focused on separately, it shows us only parallel
lines). The difficulty arises only when we try to conceive the object
as a whole. Likewise in Eco (1990, 3.5.6), I showed that even an in-
conceivable situation like that of an X, who meets himself as a
younger man (X,) can be sustained (by cognitive illusion), if the
point of view is assigned consistently to the same entity (either al-
ways to X! or always to X,). On the other hand, we shall see in 6.10
that we have no problem in imagining that we have a third eye on
our index finger, with which we can observe the nape of our neck
or see into cavities inaccessible to our normal eyes. The inconceiv-
ability arises when we try to imagine what would happen if we
were to point the third eye toward our face. Would we see the in-
Notes on Referring as Contract I 321
dex finger with the eyes in our head, or the eyes in our head with
the index finger? Once more, either we go by zones of focus (we
imagine, alternately closing the eyes in our head and the eye in our
finger) or we slip into complete imaginative confusion.
Therefore I hold that when we refer to inconceivable entities,
we behave as if, on being faced with our "white box," we were to
peep into it by alternately lifting opposite sides of the lid for a few
millimeters. Each time we would see something inconceivable, we
would have problems in reconciling the various points of view, and
we would concede that the box contained something whose prop-
erties strike us as obscure or incoherent. But this would not stop us
from referring to that something.
The identity of the Vasa
With regard to pragmatic referring as a phenomenon of negotiat-
ing, there is always the venerable example of the ship of Theseus,
which brings into play the problem of identity and any possibility
of rigid designation. This is a well-known problem that has been
treated of in various ways, from Hobbes to our own day, but for the
sake of convenience, given that we know very little about Theseus's
ship, let's talk of another ship, the Vasa.
In 1628, in Stockholm (more specifically in the Skeppengarden
shipyard), it was decided to build a formidable warship that was to
be the royal flagship of the Swedish fleet: a ship constructed out of
thousands of oak trees, fitted out with sixty-four heavy cannons,
with masts over thirty meters tall, and several hundred painted and
gilded sculptures. One Sunday morning, August 16, the ship was
launched before cheering crowds. But, as we know from a letter
from the Council of State to the King, "once it was out in the bay
off Tegelviken, the ship took a little more wind and began to heel
over downwind before righting itself a little; but when it reached
Beckholmen, it heeled over completely to one side, the water came
in through the gunports, and the ship slowly sank with all its com-
plement of sails and flags."
A very sad business. We shall not wonder why the Vasa went
322 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
down, nor shall we follow the numerous attempts made since that
day to salvage her. The fact remains that the salvage operation was
finally carried out, and today the Vasa is a poignant exhibit in the
museum of the same name in Stockholm (from whose catalogues I
have taken all the true information given here). Moreover I have
seen the ship. She's not in perfect condition, of course, some parts
are missing, but I know that what I saw is indeed the Vasa that
sank like a stone on that morning in 1628.
Now let us imagine that the Vasa did not sink on the day of its
launching but happily sailed the seas of the world. As happens with
ships, especially after facing heavy seas and tempests, various com-
ponents will have been replaced, on one occasion a part of the
planking, on another a part of the masts, on another again some
fixtures, often the cannons, until the moment in which our hypo-
thetical Vasa on display in the Vasa Museum of Stockholm no
longenhad a single part of the original Vasa. Would we say that it
was the original Vasa, in other words, would we rigidly designate
as Vasa what no longer possessed any material part of the object
that had been baptized as such?
One of the criteria for giving a positive answer is that three con-
ditions must be observed: the replacement of the various parts must
have taken place gradually and not all at once, so that the chain of
perceptual experiences has not been interrupted, and the replaced
parts must be morphologically the same as the ones that have been
eliminated. Therefore we would say that the modern Vasa is iden-
tical to the Vasa of the past, because we would take as decisive para-
meters (i) gradual continuity, (ii) uninterrupted legal recognition, and
(iii) form.21
Gradual continuity and legal recognition are the sole conditions
that allow someone to recognize me as the same individual who
was born in 1932. If one were to wax subtle about cells, God only
knows what has changed between then and now. But the changes
were gradual, and moreover the Registry Office has always defined
me as the same person (at six, twenty, and sixty years of age).
I would not know what to say about my form (those who have
not followed me year by year have trouble recognizing me in a
Notes on Referring as Contract I 323
photo from the fifties), but it's all easier with the Vasa, as it was eas-
ier with Bach's Second Suite for Solo Cello (see 3.7.7), which we
recognize as the same even if played on different cellos and even in
a transcription for the recorder.
Therefore the modern Vasa would be the same as the old Vasa
not only because it has always been nominated that way in the
course of four centuries but also because—whatever alteration it
may have undergone in terms of materials—it still has the same
form as the original Vasa.
But for whom would it be the same? Certainly for a naval histo-
rian who wanted to examine it to understand how the vessels of the
seventeenth century were constructed. Would it be the same for a
conference on the physics of materials, interested in knowing how
wood and metal have reacted to the passage of time and the in-
clemency of the elements? Such scientists would have no use for
the modern Vasa, and they would say that it was not the original
Vasa.
I shall now list (without any pretensions to establishing a defini-
tive typology) a series of cases in which the attribution of identity
(or authenticity) depends on different parameters, negotiable or ne-
gotiated from one time to the next.
(i) The abbey of Saint Guinness was built in the twelfth century.
Scrupulous abbots had it restored day by day, replacing stones
and fixtures as they fell victim to wear and tear, and so from
the point of view of materials the abbey we see today no
longer has anything to do with the original, but from the
point of view of architectonic design it is the same one. If we
favor the criterion of the identity of form over that of identity
of materials, and if moreover we introduce the criterion of
"homolocality" (the modern abbey stands exactly in the same
place as the original abbey), from a tourist's point of view
(and to a certain extent from that of an art historian) we are
led to say that this is the same abbey.
(ii) All that is left of the abbey of Saint-Pouilly Fouisse, never
restored, is a lateral wall and the ruins of the transept. Why
324 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
do we consider it original? It is not enough to say that we
consider original not the abbey but only its ruins. Many
tourists go to visit the renowned abbey of Port Royal just
outside Paris, and yet the abbey has disappeared, there is
nothing left there anymore, not even a ruin: all that remains
is a place. A place where something once stood but has
subsequently disappeared. What is there that is original at
Port Royal?
(iii) Citizen Kane, who dreams of building the perfect residence,
finds it in Europe in the abbey of Cognac, which has
remained intact since the time of its construction. He buys it,
has it dismantled and the stones numbered before having it
shipped to Xanadu and reconstructed. Is this the same abbey?
He certainly thinks so, but certain supercilious European
critics and historians think otherwise. Their preference is not
for identity of materials or form but for homolocality. Would
they therefore be obliged to say that Port Royal (which no
longer exists) is more original than Cognac (which
fundamentally exists, even though it is in the wrong place)?
(iv) The buildings in the Valley of Kings in Egypt risked being
flooded when it was planned to build a new dam. UNESCO
had those buildings dismantled stone by stone and then
reconstructed in another valley. Are these the same buildings?
UNESCO's assumption is that they are, what counts is the
form and the identity of the materials, but those who
contested the authenticity of Kane's reconstruction would
have to disagree. Why should cases (iii) and (iv) be different?
Why do we think that UNESCO has the moral and scientific
right to do what Kane did arbitrarily and out of personal
interest?
(v) The Parthenon in Nashville (Tennessee) was designed to
resemble the formal structure of the original Parthenon in all
respects, so much so that there was a rumor (how veracious, I
do not know) to the effect that, after the last war, in order to
restore parts of the Parthenon in Athens, experts went to
gather evidence on the basis of the Nashville Parthenon.
Notes on Referring as Contract I 325
Furthermore, the Nashville Parthenon is painted, as the
original edifice is supposed to have been. Yet no one would
dare to consider it original, even though the form is the same,
simply because the stones are not the same ones, because it
does not stand in the same place (among other things, it
stands on a plain and not on an acropolis), and, above all,
because the other one is still there,
(vi) Poland (as a political entity) has been one of the most
tormented nations in history: all one has to do is glance at a
historical atlas to see how its frontiers have expanded and
contracted depending on the period; indeed, at a certain point
it all but disappeared from the map. What does the name
Poland refer tor It depends on the historical context in which
it is used. Is the sentence Bialysto^ belongs to Poland true or
false? It depends on when it was said.2 2
On Ahab's other leg
In the light of a contractual theory of reference, I think it may also
be possible to solve the knotty problem of referring to fictitious
characters, such as Sherlock Holmes or Pinocchio. If a strong onto-
logical version of reference (from the standpoint of the eyes of a
Divine Mind) is asserted, then all the arguments that have filled
tens and hundreds of books can apply to fictitious characters.2 3
If a
weak ontological version (internal realism, reference in the eyes of
a Community) is accepted, the discourse seems less dramatic, be-
cause we would refer to Hamlet every time we assumed we were
dealing with the character described in Shakespeare's possible
world and regarding whom all encyclopedias recognize some prop-
erties (though not others), just as the encyclopedias agree in saying
that water is H,0.
The interesting problem is not whether fictional characters exist
in the same way as real people: in that case, the answer is "no," not
even if one were to accept the realism of Lewis (1973: 85), for
whom possible worlds are just as real as the one in which we live
from day to day. The interesting problem is why we can refer to
326 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
them in the same way in which we refer to real people, and we
understand one another perfectly well both when we say that
Napoleon was the husband of Josephine and when we say that
Ulysses was the husband of Penelope. This happens because the en-
cyclopedias agree in assigning to Josephine the property of having
married Napoleon as her second husband and to Penelope that of
having married Ulysses.
It has been said that narrative worlds are always little worlds, be-
cause they do not constitute a maximal and complete state of things
(see Pavel 1986; Dolezel 1989: 233 ffi; Eco 1990, 4). In this sense
narrative worlds are parasitical, because, if the alternative proper-
ties are not specified, we take for granted the properties that hold
good in the real world. In Moby-Dick^ it is not expressly stated that
all the sailors aboard the Pequod have two legs, but the reader
ought to take it as implicit, given that the sailors are human beings.
On th^ other hand, the account takes care to inform us that Ahab
had only one leg, but, as far as I remember, it does not say which,
leaving us free to use our imagination, because such a specification
has no bearing on the story.
Once we have accepted the commitment to read a story, we are
not only authorized but also invited—if we so wish—to make in-
ferences both on the basis of events narrated and on those presup-
posed. In principle we could do the same thing with a sentence that
refers to events that really happened and with a sentence from fic-
tion. Given Julius Caesar was assassinated in the Senate, in Rome, on
the Ides of March, 44 B.C., we can infer in what year ab urbe condita
the event took place (but we have to decide if it refers to the dating
of Cato the Elder or to that of Varro). Given D'Artagnan arrived in
the city of Meung, on a soirel nag at least fourteen years old, on the first
Monday of the month of April 1625, by consulting a universal calen-
dar one might conclude that the first Monday of that April was the
seventh.
But while it is of some interest to know in what year ab urbe
condita Caesar died, it is not narratively of interest to know that
d'Artagnan arrived in Meung on the seventh of April. It is of inter-
est to establish that Hamlet was a bachelor, because the observation
Notes on Referring as Contract I 327
has some bearing on an understanding of his psychology and of the
business with Ophelia. But when, at the end of chapter 35 of The
Red and the Blacky, Stendhal, in recounting how Julien Sorel tries to
kill Madame de Renal, concludes, "II tira sur elle un coup de pisto-
let et la manqua; il tira un second coup, elle tomba." Is there any
sense in wondering where the first bullet ended up?
As has already been stated in Eco (1979), fictional characters
have different types of properties.
(i) We have, first and foremost, those properties that are not
made explicit by the text but must be presupposed in the
sense that they cannot be denied: a character's hair may not be
described, but this is no reason for the reader to presume he is
bald. The extent to which such properties may not be denied
is seen in the processes of intersemiotic translation: if in a film
version of the tale, Julien Sorel went off try to commit
murder without his shoes (not mentioned in the story), the
matter might appear curious.
(ii) Then there are those properties that in Eco 79 are called
S-necessary (or structurally necessary), such as the property of
maintaining, within the possible narrative world, reciprocally
defining relationships with other characters. In the narrative
world of Madame Bovary, there is no other way to identify
Emma if not as the wife of Charles, who in his turn has been
identified as the boy seen by the narrator at the beginning of
the novel; any other narrative world in which Madame
Bovary were to be the wife of Monsieur Homais would be
another world, with its complement of different individuals
(in other words, we would no longer be talking of Flaubert's
novel but of a parody or remake of it).
(iii) The properties explicitly attributed to the characters in the
course of the story are seen as particularly evident, such as
having done this or that thing, being male or female, young
or old. They do not all have the same narrative value: some
have an important bearing on the story (e.g., the fact that
Julien shot Madame de Renal), others less (the fact that he
328 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
fired as the lady was at prayer with her head lowered, and
that he fired two shots instead of one only). We can make a
distinction between essential and accidental properties,
(iv) Finally there are the properties that the reader infers from the
story, which are sometimes crucial for its interpretation. In
order to make inferences, accidental properties are sometimes
transformed into essential ones: for example, the fact that
Julien's first shot missed can allow us to infer that he was
particularly nervous at that moment (in point of fact, a few
lines before, it says that his arm was trembling), and this
changes the nature of his deed, no longer due to cold
determination but to a disordered passionate impulse. Just to
stay with Stendhal, with regard to Armance there is critical
debate as to whether Octave de Malivert was really impotent,
since the text does not state this clearly.2 4
In general, however, when we refer to fictional characters, we do
it on the basis of the properties most commonly registered by the
encyclopedias, and the encyclopedias usually register properties of
the type (ii) and (iii), because those are the ones made explicit in the
texts and not the ones they presuppose or lead one to conjecture. To
talk of properties made explicit means thinking of a fictional text as
a musical score: just as a score prescribes the pitch, duration, and
often the timbre of sounds, so a story establishes the S-properties
and the essential properties of the characters. The fact that a story
also supplies accidental properties (the majority of which may be
deleted without losing the identity of the character) could be simi-
lar to the fact that in order to identify a musical composition, it is
not strictly essential for, let's say, certain differences between forte
and fortissimo to be respected, and a given melody can be recog-
nized even though it is not executed con brio, as called for in the
score.
I have returned to the analogy with the musical score because I
intend to refer to the discussion (in 3.7.7) on formal individuals. On
that occasion both a musical composition and a painting or a novel
were considered as formal individuals. Now I intend to suggest
Notes on Referring as Contract I 329
that fictional characters (inasmuch as they are intersubjectively and
encyclopedically identifiable through the S-necessary and essential
properties that a text has attributed to them) may be referred to just
as one refers to Bach's Second Suite for Solo Cello. We have said that
(above and beyond the practical and theoretical difficulties in-
volved in its recognition on the basis of two or three notes) whoever
talks of S C 2 intends to refer to that formal individual that, in the
impossibility of ascertaining the musical thought in Bach's head
when he composed it, is represented by its score or an execution of
it held to be correct and faithful.
In this sense fictional characters are formal individuals to whom
we can refer correctly as long as all the properties made explicit by
the original text are attributed to them, and on such a basis we can
establish that anyone who asserts that Hamlet married Ophelia or
that Sherlock Holmes was German is stating a falsehood (or is re-
ferring to some other individual who by chance bears the same
name).
However, what I have said may be applied to fictional characters
insofar as they are recounted by a specific work, which constitutes
their score. What can we say about mythical or legendary charac-
ters who migrate across various works, occasionally performing
different actions, or who simply survive in the mythic imagination
without being bound to any one work? One typical example is
Little Red Riding Hood, where the variations between the popular
tradition and the literary versions are extremely numerous and also
involve marginal details (see Pisanty 1993: 4). Let us limit ourselves
to dealing with a fundamental difference between Perrault's ver-
sion and that of the Brothers Grimm: in the first, the story ends
when the wolf, after having devoured the grandmother, devours
the little girl too, and the tale ends with a moralizing warning for
rash and imprudent young ladies; in the second, the hunter comes
on the scene and opens up the beast's belly to release both the little
girl and her grandmother. To whom are we referring when we
speak of Little Red Riding Hood? To a little girl who dies or to a
little girl who emerges from the belly of a wolf?
I would say that the cases here are two. If someone talks of the
330 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
resurrection of Little Red Riding Hood (reference to the Grimm
score) and the interlocutor has in mind the Perrault score instead,
then the interlocutor will ask for extra information; negotiations
will continue until an agreement is reached regarding which score
is being referred to. Or else the interlocutors are thinking of the
popular score, the one that showed itself the stronger in the end,
which is less complex than that of the various written versions and
which circulates in a given culture as a basic fabula. This fabula is
substantially the Grimms' version, and it is to this popular score
that we usually refer (namely, the girl goes into the woods, encoun-
ters the wolf, the wolf devours the grandmother, takes on her ap-
pearance, devours the child, the hunter frees them both), while
details that are important in the cultivated versions (e.g., whether
the little girl undresses and gets into bed with her grandmother) or
are only marginal (e.g., whether the girl took her grandmother
cakes and wine or cakes and butter) are dropped. On this popular
basis therefore we refer to Little Red Riding Hood in a contractual
way that is defined independently of the detail of whether she took
her grandmother wine or butter.
It likewise happens that certain characters from novels, once
they are famous, come to be a part of—as they say—the collective
imagination, and in terms of the basic fabula they become known
even to those who have never read the work in the first place. I
think that The Three Musketeers is a typical case. Only those who
have read Dumas can take part in trivia games knowing that the
nag on which d'Artagnan appears in the first chapter is from
Beam, is thirteen to fourteen years old, and was a present from his
father. Most of the time, the three musketeers are referred to in
terms of a basic fabula (they are daring, they duel with Richelieu's
guards, they perform swashbuckling deeds in order to recover the
Queen's diamonds, etc.). In this basic fabula not much distinction is
usually made between their actions in The Three Musketeers and the
actions they perform in Twenty Years After (while I would say that
the popular fabula pays no attention to what happens in the less
famous The Vicomte de Bragelonne—proof of this being that the
infinite series of film versions ignore it). Thus we recognize
Notes on Referring as Contract I 331
d'Artagnan or Porthos even in film versions where events occur
that do not happen in the novels of Dumas, and we are not dis-
turbed by this, as we would be if someone were to tell us that
Madame Bovary cheerfully divorced Charles and lived happily
ever after.
In all these cases it is a matter of negotiating the score to be re-
ferred to (a specific work or a fabula deposited in the collective
imagination), and, afterward, the reference occurs without ambi-
guity. So much so that, in the case of trivia games, one may hear
protests of the type: "Look here, the daughter of Milady that you are
referring to appears in the film! In Twenty Years After she is
Milady's son!"
Ultimately, in such cases, the possible world in question is nego-
tiated. And that agreement is not always reached may be because of
the number of possible worlds at issue, not because it is impossible
to fix the reference in a possible world negotiated with precision.2 5
Ich liebe Dich
Anyone who maintains that a pronoun in the first person singular
is identified with the person speaking—without the mediation of
an agreement regarding its own content—ought to explain what
happens when a foreigner, whose language is unknown, says Ich
liebe Dich. The objection that this is not a case of failed reference
but simply of linguistic incompetence, is self-defeating: in point of
fact I am saying that in order to understand the reference I must
know not only the meaning of a verb such as liebe but also the
meaning of the two pronouns—otherwise that declaration of love
will end up as a case of infelicitous reference (and never was adjec-
tive more appropriate).
We had begun by taking as implicit and almost obvious the fact
that, in order to use terms in acts of reference, it was first necessary
to know their meaning. As we went on, we realized that, at least in
part, we can understand acts of reference even without knowing
the meaning of the term. Then we had to conclude that there
are no "white boxes" without at least a label, that meaning creeps
332 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
back in everywhere, and that finally we cannot have a reference
crowned by success unless we first agree on the meaning of the
terms, and only at that point can we proceed to negotiate with re-
gard to the individual we intend to refer to. Let us conclude with
some observations regarding the importance of a NC and of a suc-
cessive negotiation, even for those terms that seem, so to speak, to
acquire life, to make sense only when directly attached to an indi-
vidual—and, when detached from them, to float in a fog of non-
sense.
I am always puzzled by the fact that some people maintain that
the indexical terms (the ones usually accompanied by a gesture,
such as this or that), the deictics (relative in the context to the
speaker and his spatiotemporal position, such as yesterday, now,
soon, not far from here), not to mention the personal pronouns, des-
ignate directly without any mediation on the part of any possible
meaning they might have. I tried to show in Eco (1975, 2.11.5) how
even these types of signs must be contained in their meaning if they
are to be applied in acts of reference; but I always find someone
who denies this because of the simple fact that the instructions for
understanding how one can use cat to refer to cats are different
from the instructions for understanding how one can use / or this to
refer to either the person who emitted the sentence or to the thing
that is being indicated with a finger. It is certainly true that what I
have called the NC of a term can suggest very different instructions
for identifying the referent of cat and cousin. But saying that the in-
structions take on different formats does not mean that they are not
there.2 6
Bertuccelli Papi (1993: 197) gives the example of these two sen-
tences: (i) Alice left yesterday and Sylvia three days ago and (ii) Alice
left yesterday and Sylvia two days before. If the two sentences are ut-
tered on Saturday, in both cases Alice must have left on Friday and
Sylvia on Wednesday. But in (i) the expression ago refers to the day
of the utterance (Saturday) while in (ii) the adverb before is an-
chored to the point of temporal reference contained in the sentence
itself (yesterday). If we were to replace before with ago in (ii),
Sylvia's departure date would be shifted to Thursday. The au-
Notes on Referring as Contract I 333
thoress suggests that ago is therefore "intrinsically deictic," while
before changes its value according to the temporal point of refer-
ence it stands in relation to. In any case it is clear that the use of the
two expressions to designate a precise day depends on highly com-
plex rules of textual linguistics, and I do not see why this set of
rules cannot be understood as the content of the respective expres-
sions—if by NC we do not mean a simple definition but also, or
sometimes only, a complex set of instructions for identifying the
referent.2 7
It has been said that "/ denotes the one who utters the sentence"
is an insufficient instruction for identifying the referent, given that
the referent changes according to the context and the circum-
stances and therefore does not represent the content of the pronoun
/. Yet again we are confusing instructions for the identification of
the referent with a way of fixing the reference. The instruction for
identifying the referent of / is as generic as that for identifying the
referent of interlocutor (a term that identifies different persons ac-
cording to the situation of linguistic exchange), of assassin (given
that Caesar's assassin and Kennedy's assassin refer to two different
people) or even of cat (given that the instructions for identifying
cats are certainly not sufficient to fix the reference of the cat I gave
to Louis yesterday). To give instructions for identifying, in a variety
of circumstances, the possible referent of a generic term is not the
same as deciding, by pragmatic negotiation, how to fix the referent
when referring to individuals.
Putnam (1981, II) admits that a pronoun such as / has no exten-
sion but a function of extension that determines extension according
to context. I would agree to consider this function of extension as
part of the NC of the pronoun, and we might admit that it is a mat-
ter of an instruction for identifying the referent in an act of refer-
ence. Putnam also says he would rather not identify this function of
extension (which would be an intension in Carnap's sense) along
with meaning. But here (and I refer the reader to the discussion in
3.3.2, on the difficulties that can sometimes be caused by the term
"meaning") he simply means to say, on the one hand, that this rule
is an abstract function and, on the other, that it does not include all
334 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
that we understand by the meaning of an expression, in the sense
that both cube and regular polyhedron with six square faces—says
Putnam—have the same intension and extension in all possible
worlds but retain a difference of meaning.
In point of fact, the NC of a pronoun includes an instruction for
identifying the referent (as an ability to apply a function of exten-
sion in a concrete fashion), and yet there is more to the content than
that. I shall give a series of examples, which apart from anything
else ought to provide grist for my contractual mill.
Let us suppose that someone says, I'm sorry, we can't come
tonight. If the content of we were wholly identified with an instruc-
tion for identifying the referent, we would be up against a tricky
problem, because it would oblige us to identify a community of au-
thors of the utterance, whereas we can identify only a single in-
dividual. But we also possess a pragmatic rule whereby someone
may speak on behalf of the group for which he is, let's say, the
spokesman. And thus we go to search in the dialogical context to
see whether a group had been designated previously. Finding that
the speaker was invited to dinner along with his family, we know
that the plural pronoun refers to the members of that family.
But there are also semantic-pragmatic rules. For example, the
rule of the royal "we." In such cases we know that a single person
has the constitutional right to use the first person plural instead of
the first person singular of the personal pronoun. But even when
we know this, other contractual elements come into play. If a
monarch today says, We feel tired, we know right away that he is
using the royal "we" as a matter of etiquette, and therefore the we
refers to him individually and the sentence is intended to express
an inner state of his. If, on the other hand, the same monarch says,
We confer upon you the Order of the Golden Fleece or Today we have
declared war on Ruritania, he is expressing something that was not
the general will until that moment but becomes it as soon as the
sentence is uttered. Therefore in some way that we refers (willy-
nilly) also to the subjects listening to him. According to the context,
the receivers fix the reference of the pronoun in different ways.
Now let us suppose that a scientist writes, We cannot reasonably
Notes on Referring as Contract I 3 3 5
admit that the hole in the ozone layer has a decisive influence on the
world's climate. To whom does that we refer? Not to the members
of her family, not to the subjects she does not have. However, for
the meaning of we, an ideal dictionary ought to provide the contex-
tual selection "can be understood as the authoritative plural, thanks
to which a single speaker presents himself or herself as an inter-
preter of the scientific community, of sound reasoning or common
sense." At this point we can identify the referent in various ways:
(i) there is a first reading that I would define as "rhetorical charity,"
by which we recognize linguistic use as a stylistic mannerism, and
we refer the we to the writer (we translate we as /, as if the writer
was expressing herself in another language); (ii) there is a "fidu-
ciary" reading, whereby we refer the pronoun to the scientific com-
munity (what the writer is saying is Gospel); (iii) there is a reading
"of persuasion," whereby we feel involved and think that in fact
we, the readers, are obliged to be subjects who think that way
about things.
There is finally a reading in terms of textual semiotics (not avail-
able to just any receiver), which leads us to reflect on what the
writer—in using the authoritative plural—wanted to have us be-
lieve about her: not only has she made an explicit statement regard-
ing a physical phenomenon, she has also implicitly presented
herself as a subject entitled to speak in our name too, or in the
name of a superior cognitive authority. I admit that this reading
should have nothing to do with the phenomenon of referring: we
are still referring to the author of the written text, even though we
now see her in a different psychological light. Yet it cannot be de-
nied that a bias with regard to the writer (she wants to convince us
by claiming an authority to which she has no right) can determine
the way we referentially interpret that we. We can decide that she
did not intend to use a stylistic mannerism with which to say /, that
she in fact wanted us to understand that she intended to refer to the
scientific community. This decision would involve an alethic judg-
ment regarding the proposition she has expressed. Supposing we
are convinced that the hole in the ozone layer does in fact influence
the climate of the planet, and that every reliable scientist today has
336 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
stated this. If this person meant /, then she said something false
about a physical fact; if she meant we, she said something false
about the opinions already expressed by the scientific commu-
nity—or perhaps she wanted to deceive us on both counts.
Whatever the reading, the sense of the sentence changes as well
as the lexical content of that we, which therefore does not boil
down to the instruction for identifying the referent. Without a first
tentative application of the instruction, it would not be possible to
decide whether it was necessary to interpret the pronoun as an au-
thoritative plural; but without the knowledge of that aspect of the
content, it would still not be possible to apply the instruction, in any
of the senses considered above.
Chapter Six
ICONISM AND HYPOICON
It may be that the moon, and likewise the rest of the universe, does
not exist; or the Moon may be an image projected by some Berke-
leyan divinity. But, even so, it would still count for something for
us, and for the dogs who bay at it by night (Berkeley's god has a
thought for them too). We therefore possess a cognitive type of the
Moon, and it must be a very complex one. We recognize it in the
sky whether it appears full or only as a sickle, whether it looks red
or as yellow as custard. Even when it is obscured by clouds, we
guess its presence thanks to its diffused glow; we know we have to
look for it in the sky in positions that vary in the course of the night
and the month. Our cognitive type of the Moon (and the corre-
sponding nuclear content) also includes the information that it is in
the sky, and this is what allows us to understand that the Moon
in the well is only a reflection.
The fact that it is spherical and, even though we can see only one
side of it, that it has another side that we do not see and have never
seen, is part of a more elaborate, and historically variable, molar
content: for example, both Epicurus and Lucretius were convinced
that the Moon (and the Sun too) was exactly as large as it appears
to us.
337
3 3 8 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
In short, I should like to make it clear that I believe in the exis-
tence of the Moon, at least to the same degree as I believe in the ex-
istence of everything else, my own body included. I am stressing
this point because once I was accused of not believing in the Moon.
It all came about in the course of what has been defined as "the de-
bate on iconism."
6.1 T H E DEBATE ON ICONISM
"In their obstinate idealism, they [the "semiolinguists"] dispute
everything that, one way or another, might oblige them to admit
that reality—in this case, the moon—exists." This was how, in
1974, Tomas Maldonado, with regard to what I had written on
iconic signs, reminded me of my Galilean duty to look through the
telescope, thus opening the final phase of the debate on iconism
that was in progress during the sixties and seventies.1
To this accu-
sation of idealism—definitely something to worry about in those
days—I replied (Eco 1975b) with an equally polemical essay, enti-
tled, "Chi ha paura del cannochiale?" (Who's afraid of the tele-
scope?). It is an essay I have never since republished, because I was
beginning to realize that the debate had assumed, in public, heated
tones that it did not have at all in private. Almost twenty years
later, Maldonado republished his article, but minus the pages that
concerned me, because, he stated, some of my criticisms of his cri-
tique "have contributed—I'll admit this willingly—to modify in
part the presuppositions of my analysis" (1992: 59n). May this ex-
ample of intellectual honesty inspire me now, as I review some of
the positions I held at the time.
The debate came about at the wrong time, because, while Mal-
donado was publishing his essay, my A Theory of Semiotics (which
he could not have seen) was already in print, with a chapter on sign
production that would have perhaps proved to him that we were in
agreement on more points than he thought. In any case it is singu-
lar that, after the row exploded, the general discussion reached an
impasse, as if it had become a dead letter. There was a hiatus, I
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 3 9
should say, of a decade: and then it flared up again, in the hands of
others, who had taken a second look at the whole business.2
The progress of the debate between iconists and iconoclasts*
seems linked to a ten-year cycle: this is not a symptom to be taken
lightly, in the sense that perhaps everything should be reconsidered
by bringing the Zeitgeist onto the stage every so often. Groupe p
observes (1992: 125) that two works dealing with images appeared
in 1968: Languages of Art, by Xelson Goodman, and my La struttura
assente, and that these two books, written at the same time by two
authors from two completely different cultural areas, contain some
very similar examples and observations. As if, by way of a confuta-
tion of all idealism, the moment two persons distant from each
other set to "looking at the figures," they noticed some common re-
actions.
When I reread the debate of 1974—75,1 1
emerged clearly that the
discussion hinged on three problems: (i) the iconic nature of per-
ception, (ii) the fundamentally iconic nature of knowledge in gen-
eral, and (iii) the nature of so-called iconic signs, in other words, of
those signs that Peirce called (and which we shall be referring to
exclusively as such, from now on) hypoicons. In my answer to
Maldonado it seems that I take point (i) for granted without dis-
cussing it, I do not compromise myself over point (ii), while I dis-
cuss point (iii) at length. I made the mistake of separating the three
problems, but perhaps Maldonado erred in keeping them bound
together too tightly. From his convictions regarding the motivated
nature of perception, Maldonado derived (on the basis of the early
Wittgenstein) a definition of knowledge in terms of Abbildungsthe-
orie, and consequently of the cognitive value of hypoiconic signs.
From convictions regarding the highly conventional and cultural
nature of hypoicons, I raised doubts regarding the motivation of
cognitive processes. With hindsight it seems like a comic-strip ver-
sion of the Cratylus: is it by law or by nature that the image of
Mickey Mouse reminds us of a mouse?
Points (i) and (ii) have already been dealt with in 2.8. I don't
think that people (whether they stood for an epistemology of
34° / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
specular reflection or a constructivist epistemology) had any
doubts about point (i), even back in the seventies. However, I must
admit that, in order to discuss the problem of the hypoicon, I rele-
gated the problem of perceptual iconism to an area of scant semi-
otic pertinence.4
On the other hand, many philoiconists (not only
Maldonado) have identified the iconism of perception with the
iconism of so-called iconic signs, attributing to the second the
virtues of the first.
Finally, for a series of reasons we shall be dealing with later, the
debate led people to identify both icons and hypoicons with visual
entities, both mental images and those signs that (to avoid using a
term overburdened with meanings, such as "image") we shall call
pictures. Once more this sent the discussion partly off the track,
whereas it should have been clear to everybody that both the con-
cept of icon and that of hypoicon concern nonvisual experiences
too.5
*
6.2 NOT A DEBATE BETWEEN MADMEN
Now let us try to consider the matter calmly. On the one side were
people who questioned the vagueness of a concept such as "like-
ness" and who wanted to demonstrate how impressions of likeness
caused by hypoicons were the effect of rules for the production of
likeness (see Volli 1972). Is it possible that these people were deny-
ing that most of our everyday life is based on relations that, for
want of a better term, are of likeness; that it is for reasons of like-
ness that we recognize people; that it is on the basis of likeness
between tokens that we are able to use general terms; that the con-
stancy of perception itself is ensured by the recognition of shapes;
that it is for formal reasons that we can tell a square from a trian-
gle? And even if we move on to hypoicons, is it possible that these
people were denying the evidence—for example, that a photo-
graph by Penn or Avedon looks more like the person portrayed
than does a figure by Giacometti, and that even a person from a
non-Occidental culture, if shown a group of statues from Ancient
Rome, ought to recognize them as human bodies?6
Iconism and Hypoicon I 341
Evidently not, and it is almost pathetic to see how, in the second
phase of the debate (from the eighties until now), many illustrious
iconoclasts hastened to make professions of faith in the iconic na-
ture of perception—like the accused in a Stalinist or McCarthyite
show trial, obliged above all to reiterate their loyalty to the system.
See, for example, Gombrich 1975.
On the other hand, could it be that people so profoundly con-
vinced of the iconic motivation of perception could at the same
time deny that graphic conventions, proportional rules, and tech-
niques of projection all come into play in the production and recog-
nition of hypoicons? It seems improbable. This was not a debate
between madmen.7
6.3 T H E ARGUMENTS OF THE SIXTIES
As Sonesson also recalls in many of his writings, in the field of
semiotics it all began when Barthes (1964), in his famous essay on
pasta Panzani, stated that visual language was a language without
a code. This was a way of suggesting that semiotics takes images
exactly as they are and appear to us, and tries if anything to find the
rhetorical rules for their concatenation, or to define their relations
with the verbal information that makes up for their vagueness and
polyvocity, thus contributing to establishing their sense.
In the same number of Communications 4, Metz launched what
was to become the semiotics of the cinema. And he too assumed the
cinematographic image as an image without a code, pure analogon,
reserving semiotic studies (or, as they put it in Communications,
semiological studies) for the great syntagmatics of film.
This happened at a time when semiotics was proposing itself as a
clavis universalis capable of reducing all communicational phenom-
ena to analyzable cultural conventions; at a time when people were
adopting Saussure's principle, according to which the purpose of
semiotics was to study "the life of signs within the framework of
social life"; at a time when semiostructuralism was in the process
of deciding to tackle not so much the study of laboratory-type ex-
pressions, linguistic or otherwise, like John eats apples or The present
342 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
king of France is bald, as complex texts (even before there was any
talk of textual semiotics). Most of these texts were taken from the
world of mass communications (advertising announcements, pho-
tographs, images of television transmissions), and even when not a
matter of mass communications, they were still narrative texts, per-
suasive arguments, and rhetorical strategies.
The new discipline was interested not so much in the good
formation of a sentence (a study it delegated to linguistics) or in the
relation between sentences and facts (which was unfortunately left
in obscurity) as in enunciative strategies for making something
"appear to be true." And therefore interest was focused not on
what happens when someone says It's raining today and it really is
(or isn't) but on the mechanism according to which, by talking,
one can induce someone to believe that it is raining today, and the
sociocultural impact of that disposition to believe.
Consequently, when someone was confronted with an advertise-
ment showing a glass of ice-cold beer, the problem was not so much
to explain whether and why the image corresponded to the object
(and we shall see later that the problem would not go away) as to
explain what universe of cultural assumptions was brought into
play by that image and how the image aimed at reiterating or mod-
ifying that universe.8
One invitation to consider the phenomenon of iconism should
have come from the encounter with Peirce—and it should be said
that most of the demand for a rereading of Peirce as a semiologist
came precisely from within the semiostructuralist paradigm.9
But
with regard to Peirce's work there is no doubt that more attention
has been paid to the aspect of unlimited semiosis, the growth of
interpretations within the cultural Community (certainly a funda-
mental and indispensable aspect), than to the more properly cog-
nitive moment of the impact with the Dynamical Object.
These were the reasons for the polemic against so-called naive
iconism, which is based on an intuitive notion of likeness. The
polemic was directed not so much at Peirce as at those who had
simply confused iconism (as a perceptual moment) with hypoicons.
If by icon one meant an "iconic sign" (and therefore, in Peirce's
Iconism and Hypotcon I 343
view, a hypoicon, whose "symbolic" or broadly conventional con-
tent he never denied), then saying that it possessed the properties of
the object represented looked like a way of placing signs in a direct
(and naive) relation with the objects to which they referred, thus
losing sight of the cultural mediation to which they were subjected
(in short, treating phenomena of Thirdness as Firstness). I think
(and the reader is referred to 2.8) I have made amends for those
past simplifications, but it is also necessary to understand the rea-
sons why people reacted the way they did at the time.
The virtually incontrovertible presupposition that hypoicons re-
ferred to their object by natural and immediate likeness, without
the mediation of a content, was a way of reintroducing into visual
semiotics that direct line between sign and referent that, with quasi
surgical brutality, had been expunged from the semiotics of verbal
language.1 0
It was a matter not of denying the existence of signs motivated in
some way by something (and in fact I devoted to this problem the
whole section on ratio difficilis in A Theory of Semiotics) but of mak-
ing careful distinctions among motivation, naturalness, analogy,
noncoding, "weak" coding, and unsayability. This attempt took
various paths, some of which proved to be dead ends, but others led
somewhere.
6.4. DEAD ENDS
As an example of an absolute dead end I would cite the attempt
to examine not only hypoicons but also semiotic systems such as
architecture through linguistic categories—for example, minimal
distinctive units, double articulation, paradigm and syntagm, et
cetera. This attempt could not have led very far, but historic rea-
sons applied in this case too. Consider the debate with Pasolini
(1967a), when he maintained that the cinema is based on a "lan-
guage of reality," an innate language of human action, in which the
elementary signs of cinematographic language are said to be the
real objects reproduced on the screen. Although Pasolini was later
to moderate the radicalism of those early statements in an essay
344 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
that ought to be reflected upon anew today from a Peircean stand-
point (1967b), his reaction was due to the fact that "hard-line"
semiologists were interested in demythologizing—as they used to
say then—all productions of realistic illusion and in revealing all
that was artifice, montage, and pretense in the cinema.1 1
And that
is why we had come to individuate at all costs the presence of ana-
lyzable "linguistic" entities in films too, and I cite my own pages
(1968: B4, 1.5—1.9)1 2
on triple articulation in the cinema, pages un-
fortunately still translated and republished in various anthologies
but not worth rereading, unless for documentary purposes.
By way of an example of a path that certainly led somewhere but
not in the direction intended, I would mention the attempt to re-
duce the analogical to the digital, i.e., to demonstrate that those hy-
poiconic signs that appeared to be visually analogous to their
objects could also be broken down into digitalized units and were
therefore translatable into (and producible by means of) algo-
rithms. I am proud to have posed a problem that might have
seemed an irrelevant technicality in the sixties but—in the light of
computational theories of the image—is of the maximum impor-
tance today. But at the time the observation had rhetorical value
only, because it suggested that the aura of "unsayability" surround-
ing hypoicons could be reduced. From a semiotic point of view this
did not solve anything, because to assert the digital translatability
of the image to the expression plane does not eliminate the question
of how an effect of likeness comes about on a cognitive level.
6.5 LIKENESS AND SIMILARITY
The other path was to prove more productive. Since the notion of
likeness seemed vague and in any case circular (that which looks-
like is iconic, and that which is iconic looks-like), it had to be dis-
solved in a network of procedures to produce similarity.1 3
What the
rules of similarity were was revealed to us by projective geometries,
the Peircean theory of graphs, and the elementary concept of pro-
portion itself. But this did not eliminate the problem of perceptual
iconism, and of how an element of primary iconism—"likeness" in
Iconism and Hypoicon I 345
the sense of Peircean Likeness, the very basis of perceptual con-
stancy—can survive even in the perception of hypoicons (based on
criteria of similarity).
Taking their cue from Palmer (1978), May and Stjernfelt (1996:
195) propose the example as shown in figure 6.1:
Figure 6.1
Imagine a world represented only by the objects a—d (it is not
necessary to establish whether this is a real universe or a possible
world inhabited by abstract entities). Consider A i , A 2 , and A3 as
three different "iconic" representations of this world (incidentally,
these would have every right to be considered as three interpreta-
tions of the world, just like those discussed in 1.8). Each of these
three representations adopts a single criterion for establishing simi-
larity: by expressing the property of being "higher than," the crite-
rion/(applied to A i ) pertinentizes only the relations in terms of
height between the four figures in the world, and this is why d is
represented in d' by a vertical line, abstracting from the undoubted
property of breadth or horizontality that d shows in relation to the
other three figures. The criterion g (in A2) again pertinentizes rela-
tions of height, but by representing the property of being "shorter
346 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
than" (thus creating a visible relation of inverse symmetry between
A1 and A2). The criterion h (in A3) is more complex: it pertinen-
tizes the extent of area, but expresses the property "bigger than"
through the mapping mechanisms employed in A 2 . In other
words, the bigger an object, the shorter the vertical line that repre-
sents it. The three representations are certainly motivated by the
nature of the objects (the length of the lines cannot be chosen arbi-
trarily), and therefore they certainly establish a hypoiconic relation
between the representation and the represented. But this relation,
which is defined as homomorphic and retains in the representation
some structural properties of the thing represented, is not isomor-
phic, insofar as the representation does not have the same form as
the thing represented.
This is a good example of similarity, motivated yet established
according to rules. A certain "likeness" between each representa-
tion and the thing represented is maintained even when the rules
of similarity are changed. By the way, this procedure corresponds
to what in A Theory of Semiotics I defined as ratio difficilis (points of
a virtual space of the content are projected onto the expression) and
corresponds to what the post-Hjelmslevian tradition (and, most of
all, the school of Greimas) has called the semisymbolic: where we
have systems characterized not by the conformity between the ex-
pression plane and the content plane (as in a picture of a chessboard
at a certain point in the game, or in a portrait) but through a corre-
lation of two relevant categories of different planes (Greimas and
Courtes 1979). In more comprehensible terms, in Jakobson (1970)
the motor gestures for yes and no are not motivated by an object
(which?) that they "would resemble," but they correlate, according
to a nonarbitrary relation, a motor-spatial configuration (the move-
ment of the head) with a categorial pair (affirmation and nega-
tion)—and even when in some cultures they seem conventionally
different from ours, they nevertheless have a relation of motivation
with the content they express.
Nevertheless, an understanding of these three representations is
based on a perception of the difference in the length of the lines
(not to mention the different format of the rectangles): now, this
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 4 7
property of being longer or shorter is not established by the rule of
similarity but is its requirement on the basis of the natural iconism of
perception.
When I perceive a ball as such, I react to a circular structure. I
cannot say to what extent my initiative contributes to my perceiv-
ing the ball as spherical too, but it is certainly on the basis of a pre-
formed cognitive type that I also know that the ball ought to be
made of rubber, be resilient, and therefore be capable both of
rolling and bouncing according to how it moves or is thrown. To
know that the statement This is a ball (which crowns the perceptual
judgment) is true, I would have to grasp it and throw it (the prag-
matic maxim holds here). But there is no doubt that what launched
the perceptual judgment is the phenomenon of primary iconism,
on the basis of which I immediately grasped a likeness with other
objects of the same kind, which I had already had experience of (or
of which a cognitive type had been transmitted to me in a very pre-
cise fashion). To our distant ancestors, who saw the Moon without
being provided with elaborate cognitive types, the Moon probably
did not appear as spherical at first, but certainly (when it was full)
as round.
This primary iconism is an indefinable parameter: it is, to repeat
a question posed by Wittgenstein (1953 §50), like asking the length
of the standard meter bar in Paris. Obviously the bar is exactly one
meter long, since it represents the parameter on the basis of which
we establish lengths according to the metric decimal system. Natu-
rally, in the case of the standard meter bar we can elude this self-
predication by applying another parameter and measuring it in
feet and inches. But in the case of primary icons it is not possible to
shift to another system of qualitative measurement, because even
though there is another one, it does not exist on a perceptual level,
as when we interpret colors according to wavelength. On a percep-
tual level you cannot predicate anything of a Likeness other than
the recognition that it is that Likeness. We may later say we were
mistaken; the perceptual impact of a color can be modified by set-
ting it alongside another color, but in that case we would simply be
choosing one Likeness in place of another. Therefore this innate
348 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
experience of likeness cannot be used to judge similarities, and
rules of similarity cannot be used to define primary iconic likeness.
But we must get back to the old dispute, and to the reason why
attempts were made to shift likeness wholly onto similarity. There
was a tendency to favor iconographic techniques, whereby (to re-
turn to the classic example in Gombrich 1956) Diirer's rhinoceros
had scales in accordance with a cultural type, while little attention
was paid to the fact that, while today it strikes us as a quasi rhinoc-
eros, we are nevertheless unlikely to take it for a crocodile.
6.6 OUTLINES
One example of iconoclast vehemence was the polemic about out-
lines. I am going to quote myself again, because it is not a good idea
to reprove others for carelessness or errors that we may have com-
mitted along with them. In La struttura assente, I held that we
cannot say that hypoicons have the properties of the objects repre-
sented, because if I take a sheet of paper and draw the profile of a
horse, the only property that the pictured horse has (the continuous
black line) is the only property that the real horse does not have.
Therefore I would not have reproduced so much as the conditions
of the perception.
The problem of outlines was taken up again by Hochberg
(1972), Kennedy (1974), and Gombrich, who had become critical of
his original conventionalism (1975). While it was usually held that
there are no lines in nature and that outlines are therefore a human
artifice, observed Gombrich, psychologists now tend to deny that
their comprehension must be learned just like any other code. Out-
lines are a perceptual surrogate and serve as indicators of disconti-
nuity. He notes that outlines can serve as an anticipation of the
parallax effect of movement, because the objects within our reach
will always detach themselves from the background but maintain
an intrinsic coherence even if we move our head slightly (1975)- In
other words, if, on looking at a horse standing against a landscape,
I move my head or change my position, I see other aspects of the
landscape that I did not see before, while the horse is still the same:
Iconism and Hypoicon I 349
and therefore the drawn outline accounts for this perceptual
"boundary."1 4
Already in A Theory of Semiotics (3.5.2), taking my cue from
some observations made by Kalkhofen 1972,1 returned to the topic
of outlines (this time of a hand). Again it was denied that the hand
possessed the property of having a black outline, but it was granted
that, if the hand were placed on a clear surface, the contrast be-
tween the edges of the body that absorbs more light and what re-
flects the light can generate the impression of a continuous line. I
was picking up the idea of surrogate stimuli, already proposed, as
we shall see, in La struttura assented
But before we move on to surrogate stimuli, it is worth reflecting
a little more on what it means to say that outlines are given in na-
ture.
Let us consider the "ecological" version of Gibson's psychology,
according to which the object seems to have some privileged fea-
tures, which directly excite our nerve cells, with the result that
what we grasp of the object is exactly what the object preferentially
offers us. In this regard, Gregory (1981: 376) observes polemically
that to assert that all the information necessary for perceiving the
environment—without the intervention of any interpretative
mechanism—reaches us in the form of light stimuli that are al-
ready objectively organized would mean returning to the theories
of perception prior to Alhazen's and Alkindi's observations on light
rays, in other words, to the notion of "simulacra" coming from the
object. We would still be adhering to a medieval idea of an intellect
that grasps of the object precisely what counts for most in the ob-
ject, its essential skeleton, its quidditas. But the admitted seductive-
ness of Gregory's argument is no proof that it is correct. As a
matter of fact, nothing forbids us (in principle) from thinking that
the ancients were right and that Gibson is right in returning to
them.
I think there is a difference between saying that outlines are al-
ready offered by the stimulating field and saying that the stimulat-
ing field offers the object in a definitive way, already wrapped to
determine our completed perception, which simply recognizes and
350 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
accepts what has been offered to it through the senses. This differ-
ence concerns the moment Peirce thought of as that of primary
iconism, or of what he called the percept, and the completed
perceptual judgment.
Hubel and Wiesel (1959) and Hubel (1982) tell us that in per-
ceiving a stimulus, our nerve cells respond to an optimal orienta-
tion that already exists in the stimulus. After inserting tungsten
microelectrodes in the brain of a cat, Hubel and Wiesel were able
to ascertain which cells reacted to what stimuli, and proved that the
animal, when shown a blot moving across a screen, reacted more to
movement in one direction than to movement in the other. But
that's not all. At a certain point, while a slide was being placed in
the ophthalmoscope, the cat reacted with a sort of instantaneous
cellular explosion: it was ascertained that the reaction had nothing
to do with the images on the slide but with the fact that, on enter-
ing the machine, the slide had impressed the shadow of its own
border on the cat's retina, and that was exactly "what the cell
wanted."
Now, these data tell us how sensations are received, but it is
doubtful whether they can tell us how perception works. They tell
us that cats (which cannot have been infected by iconoclastic ideal-
ism) do not receive an uncoordinated mass of sensations but are led
to focalize certain features of the stimulating field at the expense of
others. But is this due to the way the object is made or to how the
cat is made? Psychologists are very cautious about drawing conclu-
sions from these experiments. We can easily accept that when a cat
sees a table, it is struck more by the luminous incidence at its edges
than by other aspects of the surface, and that it is the same for us:
but from this to go on to state that the same process is prolonged (in
us and in cats), always through the initiative of the object, all the
way to the higher levels of perception, is another kettle of fish alto-
gether.
True, Hubel maintains that our cortical cells respond poorly to
diffuse light, with the result that, when I look at an egg against a
dark background, the cells concerned with the central area of the
egg are not stimulated, while those stimulated by the borders of the
Iconism and Hypoicon I 351
egg respond. But right after that, Hubel concludes: "How the in-
formation from such sets of cells is assembled at subsequent stages
in the path to build up what we call percepts of lines or curves (if
indeed anything like this happens at all) is still a complete mystery"
(1982: 519). Quite rightly, conclusions on the level of a theory of
perception are not drawn from data on the modalities of sensation,
and the experimenter does not risk stating that therefore knowl-
edge is a mirrorlike correspondence and not also a construction.
In referring to the research carried out by Hubel and Wiesel,
Johnson-Laird reminds us that "trying to understand vision by
studying only nerve cells, as Marr remarked, is like trying to un-
derstand bird flight by studying only feathers" (1988: 72). All this
research says nothing about the differences between what is cal-
culated, how our perceptual system elaborates that computation,
and how our cerebral hardware functions in this computational
process. Independently of the mechanism by which our retina re-
ceives stimuli from the environment, the problem of how our
mental mechanism elaborates this input concerns our system of
expectations.
No matter how much information is in the light falling on the reti-
nae, there must be a mental mechanism for recovering the identi-
ties of the things in a scene and those of their properties that vision
makes explicit to consciousness. Without such mechanisms, retinal
images would be no more use than the images produced by a televi-
sion camera and, contrary to the naive view, they cannot see any-
thing... These processes must rely on certain assumptions about the
world. (Johnson-Laird 1988: 61)
Moreover, maintaining that the process from sensation to per-
ception involves unvarying privileged patterns to which the brain
(human and animal) responds in a constant fashion, and even fully
accepting an ecological theory of perception (in its most brutal
form: we see what is there, and that's all), still tells us nothing about
the hypoiconic modalities with which we artificially represent
those same objects of perception.
The real crux of the misunderstanding yet again lies in the
352 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
immediate passage from the primary iconism of perception (that is,
from the evidence that relations of likeness exist perceptually) to an
established theory of similarity, in other words, of the creation of
the effect of likeness. Anyone who has ever visited a perfume fac-
tory will have come up against a curious olfactory experience. We
can all easily recognize (on the level of perceptual experience) the
difference between the scent of violets and that of lavender. But
when we want to produce industrial quantities of essences of violet
or lavender (which must produce the same sensation, albeit a little
enhanced, stimulated by these plants), the visitor to the factory is
assailed by intolerable stenches and foul odors. This means that in
order to produce the impression of the scent of violets or lavender,
one must mix chemical substances that are most disagreeable to the
olfactory sense (even though the result is pleasant). I am not sure if
nature works like this, but what seems evident is that it is one
thing to receive the sensation (fundamental iconism) of the scent of
violets and another thing to produce the same impression. This sec-
ond operation requires the application of various techniques with a
view to producing surrogate stimuli.
Think, for example, of two schematic figures (in some perspec-
tive) of a cylinder and a cube.1 6
A naive iconist would say that they
represent a cylinder and a cube exactly as they are; a supporter of
the cognitive value of iconism would say (and we cannot disagree)
that under normal circumstances—when the cultural inheritance is
equal—the figures would allow a subject to identify a cylinder and
a cube and to distinguish between them; the supporters of the
natural nature of outlines (whose number I have decided to join)
would say that the lines of the two drawings exactly circumscribe
the profile by means of which the object presents itself to us.
But the representation is "good" from a certain point of view, and
such is the function of all representations in perspective, whatever
the projective rule applied. Perspective is a phenomenon that
brings into play both the object and the position of the observer,
and that position also has a role to play when a three-dimensional
object is being observed. Therefore the hypoicon in some way tran-
scribes these conditions of observation. But now let's reflect on the
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 5 3
fact that the straight lines that circumscribe the contours of the
cylinder do not have the same semiosic function as those that
circumscribe the surfaces of the cube. The parallel lines that cir-
cumscribe the contours of the cylinder are surrogate stimuli that
represent the way in which, from whatever direction we look at it,
we will see the cylinder stand out against its background (the num-
ber of these lines, if we were to rotate the cylinder, would be infi-
nite, and Zeno would admit that we would never stop seeing the
cylinder's infinity of outlines). The lines of the cube, on the other
hand, represent not only the profile of that object seen from that
point of view but also, at the same time, the edges of the solid,
which remain as such, even though their perspectival relation
changes, depending on the point of view we look at or represent
the cube. In both cases, we are dealing with surrogate stimuli, but
(again in both cases) these stimuli "surrogate" different phenom-
ena, which depend partly on the form of the object and partly on
the way in which we decide to look at it.
6.7 SURROGATE STIMULI
It is not true that the iconoclasts took into consideration only the
profiles of horses or fanciful rhinoceroses, without posing the prob-
lem of the immediate impression of likeness experienced by the ob-
server when in the presence of a realistic or hyperrealistic image. In
La struttura assente (1968: 1 1 0 ffi), I examined an advertisement
showing a foaming glass of beer, which evoked a sense of pro-
nounced coolness, because on the glass you could see a film of icy
vapor. Clearly the image contained neither glass nor beer nor icy
vapor: therefore it was suggested that the image reproduced some
of the conditions of the perception of the object: where, on perceiving
the object, I would have been struck by the incidence of light rays
on a surface, in the image there were certain chromatic contrasts
that produced the same effect, or an effect that was satisfactorily
equivalent.
Therefore, even though I realize that what I see is not a glass but
the image of a glass (but there are cases of trompe l'oeil where I do
354 I K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
not realize the image is an image), the perceptual inferences I bring
into play to perceive something (and certainly on the basis of previ-
ous cognitive types) are the same ones I would bring into play to
perceive the real object. From the relatively satisfactory way in
which these surrogate stimuli stand in for the effective stimuli, I
will take the image either as a good approximation or as a miracle
of realism.
Now, this idea of surrogate stimuli has frequently been asserted
by various psychologists. For example, Gibson (1971, 1978) has spo-
ken in these cases of "indirect perception" or "secondhand percep-
tion." Hochberg (1972: 58) says on several occasions that the scene
represented by a picture is a surrogate, because it acts on the eye of
the observer in a way "similar" to the real scene; that an outline is
"a stimulus that is equivalent in some way to the features by which
the visual system normally encodes the images of objects in the vi-
sual field" (1972: 82); that when a border between two surfaces ap-
pears in the visual field, it is usually accompanied by a difference in
luminosity, and therefore an outline provides an index of depth inso-
far as it makes us perceive (in a vicarious fashion) the very border
where the luminous difference is found (1972: 84).
Research by Marr and Nishishara (e.g., 1978: 6) on computer
simulations of perceptual processes tells us that a scene and the
drawing of a scene look similar to us, because "the artist's symbols
correspond in some way to natural symbols that are computed out
of the image during the normal course of its interpretation."
But there is no doubt about the vagueness of all these definitions
(in which we frequently come across expressions such as "in some
way"). More than explain how surrogate stimuli work, these defi-
nitions acknowledge the fact that they exist and function. We have
to do with surrogate stimuli in all those cases in which the same re-
ceptors react as they would in the presence of the real stimulus, just
as birds respond to decoy whistles or as a sound-effects expert in
the radio or the cinema supplies us (through the use of strange in-
struments) with the same acoustic sensations we would experience
on hearing the gallop of a horse or the roar of a racing car. The me-
Iconism and Hypoicon I 355
chanics of surrogate stimuli remain obscure, also because these
"surrogations" range from the highest of high fidelity, as we shall
see, to a simple invitation to behave as if we were receiving a
nonexistent stimulus.
The fact that—even though we do not know exactly how they
work—there are surrogate stimuli is exemplified splendidly in
Diderot's pages on Chardin (the 1763 Salon):
The artist has placed on a table an old porcelain china vase, two bis-
cuits, a jug full of olives, a basket of fruit, two half-full glasses of
wine, a Seville orange and some pate. To look at the pictures of oth-
ers it seems that I need to have new eyes made; to look at Chardin's,
all I need do is keep the eyes nature gave me, and use them well...
The thing is that the porcelain vase is porcelain; these olives are re-
ally separated by the eye from the water in which they float; should
I wish to eat the biscuits all I need do is reach out and take them; all
I need do is peel this orange and squeeze it, take this glass of wine
and drink it, peel these fruits, take this pate and sink my knife into
it...O Chardin, it is not white, red, or black that you spread on your
palette; it is the very substance of the objects, it is the air and the
light that you gather with the tip of your brush and put on the
canvas.
At first sight Diderot's praise expresses the delight of a spectator
who, believing that there cannot be absolutely realistic painting,
finds himself in the presence of a masterpiece of realism, in which
there is no gap between the stimulus that may come from the real
object and the "surrogate" stimulus. But Diderot is not so naive.
The first effect having worn off, and well aware that what he can
see is not real fruit and biscuits, he seems to get closer to the paint-
ing, where he finds out he is longsighted:
One cannot understand this magic. The color is applied in thick
layers, one on top of the other, whose effect transpires to the surface
from below. Sometimes one would say that it is a vapor that has
been puffed onto the canvas, sometimes it seems that it has been
356 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
smeared with a light froth...You get closer, all is confused, flattens
and disappears. Move further away, all is recreated and repro-
duced.
That is the point. The stimuli aroused by real objects, with vari-
ations that are negligible from the point of view of perceptual
recognition, act at different distances. Surrogate stimuli, when ex-
amined from too close up, betray their illusory nature, their sub-
stance of the expression, which is not that of the objects they
suggest; and to obtain their iconic effect they require a calculated
distance. This is the principle behind the trompe l'oeil, the epiph-
any of the surrogate stimulus. Chardin's magic is due to the fact
that the stimuli he provides for the spectator are not the ones that
would be provided by the object. Diderot confesses he cannot un-
derstand how the painter manages to do this, but he has to admit
that he does it. In his own way, in celebrating the miracles of icon-
ism, Diderot is stating the nonnatural nature of hypoicons.
I should like to elaborate upon an observation made by Merleau-
Ponty with regard to a die (1945: 2, III). The die is there, visible
from different points of view. It may be that those beside me do not
see it, and therefore it is part of my personal history. As I look at it,
it loses its materiality and reduces itself to visual structure, form
and color, light and shade. I note that not all aspects of the die can
fall within my perceptual field, the Thing-in-Itself can be seen only
from my personal point of view. I grasp not the thing but my expe-
rience oriented by the thing, my way of experiencing the thing (the
rest, we might say, is inference, a hypothesis as to how the thing
might be if others could see it too). I perceive the die with my body,
including the point of view from which I look at it. If my body
(or my point of view) were to move, I would see something else.
Thanks to long perceptual experience, I know all this. But in the
presence of the surrogate stimulus (the representation of a die, re-
garding which, were I to shift my point of view, I could not per-
ceive anything that might be behind it), I have already accepted
that someone has seen for me.
Therefore a good rule for detecting surrogate stimuli would
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 5 7
seem to be the following: if I change my point of view, do I see
something new? If the answer is no, the stimulus is surrogate.1
'
The surrogate stimulus tries to impose upon me the sensation I
would have were I to observe matters from the point of view of the
Surrogator. In front of me there is the outline of a house (and we
have seen that outlines are founded in nature); if I move, can I see
the tree behind the house? If I cannot see it, the stimulus is surro-
gate. Only by usurping the point of view of someone who has seen
before me can I define if a stimulus is surrogate or not. The surro-
gate stimulus prevents me from seeing (or hearing) from the point
of view of my subjectivity, understood as my corporeality; it gives
me only one profile of things, not the multiplicity of profiles that
real perception would offer me. In order to decide whether a stim-
ulus is surrogate or not, all you have to do is move your head.
6.8 BACK TO THE DISCOURSE
My review of the historical reasons for the debate on iconism has
perhaps already suggested some of the reasons why it can now be
resumed sine ira et studio. The idea of a semiotics that has to study
the workings of signs in social and cultural life no longer requires
the polemic energies of apologist fathers: it is a matter of fact.
Semiotic studies have been developed at a subcultural level (from
zoosemiotics to the problems in cellular communication that I
mentioned in 2.8.2), where concepts such as primary iconism
reemerge on the scene without their being dissolved in a broth of
cultural stipulations. Many have gradually been converting from
the semiostructuralist paradigm to the Peircean one (at least with
attempts to blend the most interesting aspects of both). Faith in
what interpretation posits and constructs with respect to any datum
has led (certainly in the field of texts, with Derrida, but also with
regard to the world, at least in the case of the latest Rorty) to the
triumph of deconstructionist drift. For those who thought that we
needed to regulate this in some way, it was necessary to tackle the
problem of the limits of interpretation. This was precisely the expres-
sion I used for Eco 1990, apropos of textual interpretation, but
3 5 8 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
already on that occasion the essay on drift and unlimited semiosis
posed the problem of the limits of the interpretation of the world;
and, as far as the world is concerned, I have dealt with this with
greater resolution in 1.8—11.
And so we can now return to the discourse of hypoicons. By so
doing, I do not think I have succumbed to the temptation of having
my own personal Kehre. More modestly, all I think I am doing is
bringing to the forefront what, without rejecting it, I had previ-
ously left in the background, but in such a way that both the "fig-
ures" remain legible.
6.9 SEEING AND DRAWING SATURN
My discussion with Maldonado sprang from an objection he made
in favor of iconism: that the image of the Moon that Galileo saw in
his telescope was an icon and as such possessed an innate likeness
with the Moon itself. I objected that the image in the eyepiece of
the telescope was not an icon—at least not in the sense of an iconic
sign. The iconic sign, or hypoicon of the Moon, emerged when, af-
ter having looked in the telescope, Galileo drew the Moon. And
since Galileo already knew a lot about the Moon, as a result of his
having observed it like everybody else with the naked eye, I chose
to discuss a more original and more "unheard-of" situation: that of
Galileo looking at Saturn through his telescope for the first time
and then—as can be seen, for example, in Sidereus Nuncius, making
drawings of it.
In such a case there are four elements in play: (i) Saturn as
Thing-in-Itself, as Dynamical Object (even when not an object, it
would be a set of stimuli); (ii) the luminous stimuli that Galileo re-
ceived when he put his eye to the telescope (and it's up to optics to
study what happens when the rays reflected by the planet travel
through space, through the concave eyepiece, and through the
double-convex lens); (iii) the conceptual type that Galileo recon-
structed of Saturn, the Immediate Object (which will in some way
be different from the one he had when struggling to observe it with
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 5 9
the naked eye); (iv) the drawing (hypoicon) that Galileo made of
Saturn.
Apparently the four stages come in this order:
Saturn-in-itself —• Saturn on the lens —» Cognitive type —> Drawing
This is what I would do today if I wished to draw what I see in a
telescope. But Galileo was looking for the first time. And, on look-
ing, he saw something never seen before. There are various letters
in which Galileo communicated his discoveries as they came along,
and you can see the effort he made (as he looked) to see. For exam-
ple, in three letters (to Benedetto Castelli, 1610; to Belisario Giunti,
1610; and to Giuliano de' Medici, 1611), he says he saw not one star
but three joined together in a straight line parallel to the equinoc-
tial, and he represented what he saw like this (fig. 6.2):
But in other letters (e.g., to Giuliano de' Medici, 1610; and to
Marco Velseri, 1612) he admits that owing to the "imperfection of
the instrument and the eye of the observer," Saturn might also ap-
pear like this ("in the shape of an olive," fig. 6.3):
Figure 6.2
Figure 6.3
360 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
The figure clearly reveals that, since it is wholly unexpected for a
planet to be surrounded by a ring (which apart from anything else
clashed with every notion held at the time with regard to heavenly
bodies), Galileo was trying to understand what he could see, in
other words, he was laboriously trying to construct a (new) cogni-
tive type of Saturn.
After looking and looking again (see his letter to Federigo
Borromeo in 1610), Galileo finally decided that it was a matter no
longer of two small round bodies but of larger bodies "and of a
shape no longer round, but as can be seen in the enclosed figure,
two semi-ellipses with two very obscure little triangles in the
middle of the said figures, and contiguous to Saturn's middle globe."
This consideration led Galileo to a third representation (fig. 6.4):
Figure 6.4
If we look at the drawing, we recognize Saturn and its rings, but
simply because we have already seen other elaborated representa-
tions, of which this sketch anticipates a few pertinent features (a
globe with an ellipse around it—and it's up to us to see perspective
in a sketch that does very little to suggest it). Note that Galileo did
not see this perspective, otherwise he would have spoken not of two
semiellipses but of an elliptical band.1 8
Galileo still saw a kind of
Mickey Mouse, a face with two large ears. But it cannot be denied
that this third drawing is more like successive images, even photo-
graphic ones, of Saturn at its point of maximum inclination. In any
case, on a morphological level it corresponds to the cognitive type
of Saturn possessed by a person with average knowledge. Note that
(due to the claimed coincidence between cognitive type and nuclear
content or Immediate Object) if asked to represent Saturn, a person
without particular graphic talents would today make a drawing
Iconism and Hypoicon I 361
fairly similar to Galileo's, probably completing the lower part of the
two ellipses so that the ring passes in front of the globe.
In the light of Galileo's efforts, one is led to think that it is not
the construction of the cognitive type that precedes the drawing; if
anything, it follows it:
Saturn-in-itself —• Saturn on the lens —• Drawing —• Cognitive Type
It is only by trying to fix on paper the essential features of what
was being received (in this stage, clots of Firstness, an uncoordi-
nated sequence of stimuli) that Galileo gradually began to "see," to
perceive Saturn and to construct a first hypothetical cognitive type.
Which is also what I was trying to say in A Theory of Semiotics with
regard to radical inventions.1 9
Having said all this, we have still said nothing about the second
element of the chain, Saturn on the lens. From a semiotic point of
view, it would seem to be a negligible phenomenon: the telescope
constitutes a channel through which Galileo received a series of
stimuli, as he would have received them had he boarded a space-
ship and traveled to a point sufficiently close to Saturn.
But it is precisely this "as if" that demands some additional re-
flection (and never was metaphor so literal). Not so much to gain a
better understanding of perception as to return yet again to the
phenomenon of hypoicons.
6 . 1 0 PROSTHESES
Normally we give the name prosthesis to any apparatus that substi-
tutes a missing organ, but in a broad sense prostheses are all appa-
ratuses that extend the range of action of an organ. When people
are asked where they would like to have a third eye, were this pos-
sible, they usually provide rather uneconomical responses: some
would like one on the nape of the neck, others on the back, without
taking into account that whereas this would certainly allow them
to see what is going on behind them, it would not help with regard
362 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
to an infinity of other places into which they often wish they could
see: the top of the head, behind the ears, on the other side of a door,
or inside the hole into which their key has fallen. The correct an-
swer, in the sense that it is the most reasonable one, would be: on
the tip of the index finger. It is obvious that in this way we might
extend the range of our vision to the maximum, within the limits
of our bodily range of action.2 0
Well, if we had an artificial eye that
was as maneuverable as our index finger, we would have an excel-
lent extensive prosthesis with an intrusive function into the bargain
(in the sense that it would go see not just in places where the eyes
could look if we turned our head or moved but also into places
where the eyes cannot penetrate).
Substitutive prostheses do what the body used to do but for one ac-
cidental reason or another no longer does: such devices include ar-
tificial limbs, walking sticks, spectacles, pacemakers, and hearing
aids. Extensive prostheses, on the other hand, extend the natural
action of the body: such devices include megaphones, stilts, and
magnifying glasses, but also certain objects that we do not habitu-
ally consider extensions of our body, such as chopsticks or pliers
(which extend the action of our fingers), shoes (which strengthen
the action and resistance of the feet), clothes in general (which en-
hance the protective action of the skin and hair), and ladles and
spoons (which substitute for and improve the action of the hand
seeking to collect a liquid and bring it to the mouth).
Another device that might be considered an extensive prosthesis
is the lever, which in principle works like the arm but better; but
the lever does this so well, and with such results, that it probably
ushers in a third category, that of magnifying prostheses. These do
something that our body had perhaps dreamed of doing but with-
out ever succeeding: telescopes and microscopes, but also vases and
bottles, baskets and bags, the spindle, and certainly the sledge and
the wheel.
Both extensive and magnifying prostheses can also be specified
as intrusive. Among the extensive-intrusive prostheses, we would
mention the periscope or certain medical instruments that make it
possible to explore immediately accessible cavities such as the ear or
Iconism and Hypoicon I 363
throat, while the magnifying-intrusive prostheses include scanners,
gamma-ray measuring devices in nuclear medicine, or certain
probes equipped with miniature television cameras that explore the
entire intestines and project what they "see" onto a screen.
I have made use of this attempt at classification only to be able to
talk of that original and special type of prosthesis, which is the
mirror.
6.11 MORE ON MIRRORS22
What is a mirror, in the current sense of the term? It is a regular
plane or curved surface capable of reflecting rays of incident light.
A plane mirror forms a virtual, upright, reversed (or symmetrical),
specular (of the same size as the object reflected) image devoid of
so-called chromatic aberration. A convex mirror forms virtual, up-
right, reversed, and reduced images. A concave mirror is a surface
of a type that (a) when the object is between the focus and the spec-
tator, it forms virtual, upright, reversed, enlarged images; (b) when
the object's position varies, from infinity to coincidence with the fo-
cal point, it forms images that are real, reversed, enlarged, or re-
duced, depending on circumstances, at different points in space,
which can be observed by the human eye and collected on a screen.
Paraboloidal, ellipsoidal, spherical, or cylindrical mirrors are not in
common use and, if anything, are used for deforming images and
in catoptric theaters.2 3
In Eco (1985) I was struck by the oddity and the quasi "idealis-
tic" nature of the idea—established in optical studies—that the
mirror image is reversed or, rather, "inversely symmetrical." The
naive opinion that the mirror puts the right in place of the left and
vice versa is so deeply rooted that some people are surprised by the
notion that mirrors reverse left to right but not up to down. Now
let's reason for a moment: if in front of the mirror I have the im-
pression that it reverses right and left, because in the image it seems
that my watch is on my right wrist, for the same reason, if I look
into a mirror on the ceiling, I ought to think that it has changed up
to down, because I see my head where my feet ought to be.
364 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
But the point is that not even vertical mirrors reverse things or
turn them upside down. If we make a diagram of the specular phe-
nomenon, we realize that camera oscura—type phenomena do not
occur in it (see fig. 6.5): there are no intersecting rays in specular re-
flection (see fig. 6.6).
Figures 6.5 and 6.6
The mirror reflects our right exactly where our right is, and the
same holds for the left. It is we who identify ourselves with the per-
son we see in the mirror, or think that it is another person standing
in front of us, and we are surprised at his wearing a watch on the
right wrist (or his gripping a sword with the left hand). But we are
not that virtual person in the mirror. All we have to do is avoid
"entering" the mirror, and this illusion will no longer trouble us. In
fact, we can all manage to comb our hair in the mirror in the morn-
ing without acting as if we had cerebral palsy. We know how to use
the mirror, and we know that the lock of hair over our right ear is
on our right (even though for the person in the mirror, were he
there, it would be on the left). On the perceptual and motor plane,
we correctly interpret the mirror image for what it is, but on the
plane of conceptual reflection we still cannot entirely manage to
separate the physical phenomenon from the illusions it encourages,
in a sort of hiatus between perception and judgment. We use the
mirror image the right way, but we talk about it the wrong way
(whereas in astronomy we talk correctly about the relation between
the Earth and the Sun, even though we perceive it wrongly, as if it
were the Sun that moved).
Iconism and Hypoicon I 365
This is certainly a very curious point: that mirrors reverse left
and right is an ancient belief, from Lucretius to Kant, and some
cling to it to this day.2 4
If things were like this, we would have to
think about the fact that, when someone stands behind me, his
right is on my right and his left is on my left; but if he turns around
and stands in front of me, his right is where I have my left and vice
versa (and he wears his watch on the opposite side to me). And so
we would have to conclude that it is people who reverse, not mirror
images, and this ancestral habit of seeing people reversed is what
invites us to see mirror images as reversed (if we consider them as
persons).
This much, simply to say that mirrors make us lose our head.
But if instead we would keep our head, we must conclude from
this that mirrors do not provide reversal but perfect congruency, as
when I press blotting paper on a sheet of paper. The fact that I can-
not read what remains impressed on the blotting paper has to do
with my reading habits, not with specularity (Leonardo da Vinci,
who had other reading and writing habits, would not have had this
problem). However, I could read what remains impressed on the
blotting paper by using a mirror, that is to say, by having recourse
to a mirror image of a mirror image. The same thing happens to
me if I stand in front of the mirror holding the dust jacket of a
book. I can't manage to read the title in the mirror; but if I have
two angulated mirrors, as people often have in their bathrooms, I
can see reflected in one of the two mirrors (more easily in one than
the other, depending on the angulation) a third image in which the
letters on the dust jacket appear as they do when I look at the book
directly (moreover, I really would see myself with my watch on the
left wrist). Now, this third image really is a reverse of the mirror
image (which in itself reverses nothing).
We use mirrors well, because we have introjected the rules of
catoptric refraction. We use them well, when we know that we are
dealing with a mirror. When we do not know this, misunderstand-
ings or deceptions may arise. But, when we do know, we always
start from the principle that the mirror is telling the truth. It nei-
ther "translates" nor interprets but registers what strikes it exactly
366 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
as it strikes it. And so we trust mirrors, just as we trust, under nor-
mal conditions, our own organs of perception. We trust mirrors
just as we trust spectacles and telescopes, because, like spectacles
and telescopes, mirrors are prostheses.
There is no doubt that mirrors are extensive and intrusive pros-
thetics par excellence, for example, in that they allow us to look
where the eye cannot reach: they allow us to look at our face and
eyes, they allow us to see what is happening behind our back. Start-
ing from this principle, we can use mirrors to obtain some very
sophisticated intrusive effects: think of angulated dressing table
mirrors that allow us to see ourselves in profile, or of barbers' mir-
rors arranged en abime. Some mirrors are also magnifying prosthe-
ses, because they reproduce an enlarged image of our face; others
are deforming prostheses. With complex theaters of mirrors we
can create illusions, right up to the disquieting catoptric theater in
Orson Welles's The Lady from Shanghai. With series of mirrors
arranged at suitable angles we can extend our intrusive powers (I
can construct systems of mirrors that allow me to see what is hap-
pening in the next room, even if I am not looking toward the door);
we can use mirrors as channels for transporting or projecting lumi-
nous stimuli (think of the various possible signaling systems that
use light reflected by mirrors)... But for the moment what interests
us here are simple everyday mirrors, which I am going to consider
as presemiosic phenomena.
Of course if I "interpret" my image in the mirror and draw con-
clusions about my aging (or my unfading beauty), I am already in a
more complicated phase of semiosis. And this can also be said of
that "mirror stage" in which Lacan saw the moment in which the
symbolic was established. But the fact that children must learn to
use mirrors does not mean (as some people think) that the mirror is
not a primary experience. Children have to learn everything, even
to use their hands and eyes; let's give them time. But the magic of
mirrors is such that it is hard for many people to accept the ex-
tremely banal experience that I stubbornly insist on proposing: I in-
tend to speak of the mirror image in terms of the way I use the
dressing-table mirror every day, perhaps to adjust my tie, and in
Iconism and Hypoicon I 367
this phase there is no longer any interpretation, apart from that
perceptual interpretation that also comes into play when I look at
someone in front of me.
The normal mirror is a prosthesis that does not deceive. All the
other prostheses, insofar as they interpose something between the
organ whose powers they extend or magnify and what they
"touch," can deceive our perceptions: walking with shoes on leads
us into making a poor judgment of the terrain; clothes give us poor
information about the external temperature; pliers can give us the
impression we have gripped something that then eludes us. But
with mirrors we can be sure that we see things the way they are,
even when we look in the mirror and wish we were not as we
see ourselves.
Naturally we must exclude mirrors that have misted over, cases
in which we are deceived by our own mistake (such as when we
think we see someone coming toward us, and it is our reflected im-
age instead), misunderstandings in which we take for a mirror an
empty frame on the other side of which there is someone who imi-
tates our every movement (as in the Marx Brothers film). In normal
circumstances we use mirrors armed with the certainty that they
do not lie.
We do it because we have learned that the specular prosthesis
provides the eye with the same stimuli that the eye would receive
were the prosthesis in front of us (perhaps on the tip of an index
finger that we point toward our face). We are sure that the mirror
provides us with the absolute double of the stimulating field. If an
iconic sign (in the sense of hypoicon) really were an image that has
all the properties (visual, at least) of the object represented, the mir-
ror image would be the iconic sign par excellence, or it would be
the only icon external to our mind of which we really have experi-
ence. But this pure icon stands only for itself.
However, it is not even a Firstness in the Peircean sense, because
what we see is already interwoven with an awareness of a relation
to a fact: if anything, the mirror image is a Firstness already an-
chored to a Secondness, insofar as it establishes a necessary and di-
rect relation between the mirroring and the thing mirrored. But it
368 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
if not yet a sign. This statement holds as long as we assume that in
order to define a sign as such, the following criteria must be re-
spected:
(i) The sign is something that stands for something else in its
absence. The mirror image, on the other hand, stands in the
presence of the object it reflects.
(ii) The sign is materially distinct from the thing of which it is the
sign, otherwise one might say that I am a sign of myself. The
mirror image, on the other hand, is, as we have seen, an
absolute double of the same stimuli that our eye would receive
were it in front of the reflecting object.
(iii) In the sign the expression plane is distinguished by substance
and form, and the form itself could be transposed into
another substance. But with a mirror, at most I transfer (by
reversing it) the same luminous substance onto an opposed
specular surface.
(iv) For there to be a sign, it must be possible to relate a sign
token to a type. In the mirror image, on the other hand, type
and token coexist.
(v) The sign can be used to lie or to state (erroneously, even
though in good faith) that which is not the case. The mirror
image, on the other hand, never lies. The sign can be used to
lie, because I can produce the sign even though the object does
not exist (I can name chimeras and portray unicorns), while
the mirror image is produced only in the presence of the
object.
The mirror image has no indexical value. It is not an index of the
fact that we are in front of the mirror, because we would not need
it (if anything, the absence of the image of the mirrored object
could be a symptom, but only for the Invisible Man or for vam-
pires). It is not an index of the fact that we have, for example, a
mark on our nose: insofar as the mirror is a prosthesis, we see the
mark as we would see it if the mark were on our hand.
Iconism and Hypoicon I 369
The mirror image is not even an imprint (unless in the sense in
which the sensation is a metaphorical "imprint" of what has been
sensed): imprints are such, and tell us something, when they subsist
as material traces in the absence of an imprinter, and only then do
they become a semiosic phenomenon. For someone following me,
the tracks left on the ground by my feet are imprints, but not for
me, because I am not concerned about the fact that my feet make
an impression as they touch the ground—unless (supposing I am
drunk) I turn around to check my footprints to see if I have been
walking in a straight line. If I had eyes in the soles of my feet, I
would see my prints one by one as they were impressed in the
ground, and I could interpret them in order to make inferences
about the shape of my feet. But with mirrors, not even this hap-
pens: all I have to do is expose the soles of my feet to the reflecting
surface, and I can see them as they are, without any need to infer
anything.
Sonesson (1989: 63, referring to Maldonado 1974: 288 ff.) has
suggested that the mirror image may be a "hard icon," as are the
impressions on an X-ray plate or the mark left by a hand on the
walls of a prehistoric cavern. But these are indeed imprints (see A
Theory of Semiotics 3.6.2), in which the substance of the expression
(stone, sand, film) has nothing to do with the material of which the
imprinting object is constituted, and in which we can work up
from a few features (generally profiles) to an inferential reconstruc-
tion of that possible object. Moreover, these imprints naturally sub-
sist even after the object that made them, and therefore they can
also be falsified, which does not happen with the mirror image.
Finally, the imprint is a sign, insofar as it is fundamentally an ex-
pression that refers to a content, and content is always general.
When Robinson sees the footprint on the sand, he does not say,
Man Friday passed here, but, A human being passed here. A hunter on
the trail of a given deer, or a "tail" following the tracks left on the
ground by Mr. X, initially sees the prints left by a deer and a person
(or of a shoe), and it is only by inference that the hunter or "tail" is
convinced he is dealing with that deer or that Mr. X.2 5
37" / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Naturally one might object that objects are used as ostensive
signs (I show a mastiff or a telephone to say that mastiffs or
telephones are made like this or like that; see A Theory of Semiotics
3.6.3). In processes of ostension, an object is chosen as an example
that refers to all the objects in its category, but we use an object as
an ostensive sign precisely because it is first and foremost an object.
I can look at myself in the mirror to tell myself that human beings
are like me in general, but in the same way I could look at my tele-
phone on the table to tell myself that all telephones are like this in
general. And therefore the mirror image is yet again a prosthesis
that allows me or others to see an object that can be chosen as an os-
tensive sign.2 6
Therefore the image we see in the mirror is not a sign, any more
than the enlarged image provided by a telescope or the one we can
see through a periscope.2
'
If anything, the dream of a sign that has the same properties as
the mirror image springs from the fascination that mirrors have
held for humanity since Narcissus's day. The specular experience
can explain the birth of a notion such as the (semiotic) one of the
iconic sign (as hypoicon), but is not explained by it.
But then, if we take this path, it is from the timeless appeal of
mirrors that springs the idea of an understanding that is a complete
correspondence ("specular," in fact) between thing and intellect.
The idea of indexes springs from such a specular experience: it says
"this" and "here" and points to me looking at myself in the mo-
ment in which I look at myself. From it springs the idea of a sign
that, devoid of meaning, refers directly to its referent: the mirror
image is really the example of an "absolute proper noun"; it is re-
ally the most rigid of rigid designators; it resists all counterfactuals.
I cannot suspect that, even were the mirror to lose all its properties,
what I see in it would no longer be what I see in it. But these are
metaphors—which, when said by the poets, can become sublime.
The character proper to the mirror image is that it is only a mirror
image, it is a primum, and in our universe, at least, there is nothing
that may be compared to it.2 8
Iconism and Hypoicon I 371
6 . 1 2 CHAINS OF MIRRORS AND TELEVISION
Let us suppose now that along a distance of some miles—from a
point A, where there is an object or where an event is taking place,
to a point B, where there is an observer—a continuous series of
mirrors has been put in place and angled in such a way that thanks
to a play of chain reflections the observer at B sees, in real time (as
they say), what is or what is happening at A.
The only problem is whether we want the observer to receive a
mirror image or the image he would see were he physically present
at point A to observe the object or the event there. In the first case,
the number of mirrors must be odd; in the second, it must be even.
Since we presume that the observer wants to see what is at A as if
he were a direct witness to it, an even number of mirrors is needed.
In that case, the final result will not be what a simple mirror pro-
duces but will correspond to the image produced by angulated mir-
rors.
If the observer knew that what he sees is transmitted to him by a
chain of an even number of angulated mirrors, he would be con-
vinced he was seeing what was effectively happening at A—and he
would be right.
Now let us imagine that the observer knows that the light sig-
nals reflected by the mirror can in some way be "dematerialized"
(or translated or transcribed into impulses of another nature) and
then recomposed at their destination. Confronted with the final
image, the spectator would behave as if it were a mirror image—
even accepting that in the process of codification and decodification
something was lost in terms of the definition of the image (his be-
havior with regard to the received image would be similar to our
behavior when faced with a mirror that is a little misted over, or
when we see something in a dimly lit room; in other words, when
we integrate the stimuli with what we know already or with some
inference).
This is what happens with the television image. The television
can be seen as an electronic mirror that shows us what is happening
at distances that our sight could not otherwise reach. Like the
372 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
telescope or microscope, it is an excellent example of a magnifying
prosthesis (and an abundantly intrusive one at times).
Naturally we have to think of television in its purest state, which
would be a closed-circuit apparatus with a fixed television camera
filming everything that happens in a given place. Otherwise televi-
sion, like the cinema and the theater, is something that shows us a
mise-en-scene (Bettetini 1975) set up beforehand with the aid of
lighting effects, a play of field and counterfield, montage, Kuleshov
effects, et cetera, and with this we enter the universe of significa-
tion or communication.
But if we consider "pure" television, we are dealing with a pros-
thesis, albeit a "foggy" one, not a phenomenon of signification. Cer-
tain perceptual stimuli, however weakened, suitably translated into
electronic signals, reach (decoded by a machine) the receiver's or-
gans of perception. Everything that the receiver can do with those
stimuli (reject them, interpret them, or whatever) is the same as
would happen if the receiver were watching what was happening
directly.
In order to provide a more sharply defined picture of this equiv-
alence between the television and the mirror, let us imagine that
the closed-circuit television camera is in our home environment,
and that it transmits what it films to a monitor in the same envi-
ronment. We would have mirror-type experiences, in the sense that
we would see ourselves from in front or from behind (as happens
with opposed mirrors), and we would see what we were doing in
that moment on the screen. What would be the difference? That
we would not have the experience provided us by a simple mirror;
instead, but we would see a third image produced by two angu-
lated mirrors, and therefore we would have to be careful when we
used the image on the screen to comb our hair, shave, or put on
makeup. This is the same embarrassing situation that occurs when
you are interviewed in a television studio where you can see your-
self at the same time on a monitor in front of you. But if the closed-
circuit apparatus were to provide me with a reversed (it does this
time) image, then I could use the monitor as a normal dressing-
table mirror.
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 7 3
I leave it to the experts on vision to establish to what extent the
television image is optically different from the mirror image, and
the same holds for the various cerebral processes that the television
image may bring into play. Here I am interested in the pragmatic
role of the television image, the way in which it is received, and the
truth value accorded to it. Certainly, also from the point of view of
conscious reception, there are differences between the mirror and
the television image: television images (i) are reversed, (ii) have
poorer definition, (iii) are usually smaller in size than the object or
scene, and (iv) are such that we cannot peek sideways into the
screen as we do with the mirror, to see what it is not showing us. As
a consequence we shall describe such images as paraspecular.
Let us suppose, however, that the television has been perfected to
the point that we can have three-dimensional images large enough
to correspond with the dimensions of my field of vision, and even
(as suggested in Ransdell 1979: 58) that the screen has been elimi-
nated and there is some apparatus that transmits the stimuli di-
rectly to the optic nerve. In such a case, we would really find
ourselves in the same circumstances as someone looking into a
telescope or standing in front of a mirror, and this would do away
with most of the differences between what Ransdell calls a "self-
representing iconic sign" (as happens in the perception of objects or
in mirror images) and an "other-representing iconic sign" (as in
photographs or hypoicons in general).
The fact is that there are no theoretical limits to high defini-
tion. Today it is possible to follow on a screen what is seen by an in-
testinal probe fitted with a built-in television camera as it travels
through our insides (an experience now accessible to anyone, and
one that we are the first creatures of our species to be able to have).
It is clear that the probe is a magnifying prosthesis par excellence,
allowing us to see with a clarity and precision that is certainly
greater than we would enjoy if we were lucky enough to be able to
wander about inside our own body. Xot only that but, as the probe
moves about, we can also see obliquely, as happens when we move
our head to look beyond the physical confines of the mirror.
However the technology of image definition may develop, and
374 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
even if one day it might be possible to have virtual gastronomic or
sexual experiences (which also involve thermic and tactile sensa-
tions, taste and odor), all this will not alter the definition of such
stimuli as stimuli received through a prosthesis—and therefore,
from a semiotic point of view, just as relevant as the normal per-
ception of the real object. If these virtual stimuli then provide us
with something less defined than the real stimulus (and I think that
this is the present status of virtual reality, which has to be made up
for with a surplus of interpretation, albeit unconsciously), then we
will have entered the category of surrogate stimuli, which we shall
be discussing shortly.
In this sense, television is a very different phenomenon from cin-
ema or photography, even though the television may occasionally
transmit filmed images or photographs, just as it is a different phe-
nomenon from the theater, even though the television may occa-
sionally transmit shows performed on a stage (of which it offers the
paraspecular image). We can put our trust in cinematographic and
photographic images insofar as they are an indication that some-
thing, which was there, has left an impression on a film. Even if we
know or suspect them to be images of a prophotographic or pro-
filmic mise-en-scene, in any case we hold them to be indications of
the fact that that mise-en-scene really took place. But we also know
that such images are and always have been subject to elaboration,
filtering, and photomontage; we are aware that, from the moment
of impression to the moment in which the images reach us, some
time has passed; we consider the photo and the film as material ob-
jects that are not identified with the object portrayed, and therefore
we know that the object at hand stands for something else. This is
why it is easy for us to treat photographic and cinematographic im-
ages as signs.
Things are different with the television image, in which the ma-
teriality of the screen functions as a channel in the same way as the
layer of glass that serves us as a mirror functions as a channel. Un-
der ideal circumstances, i.e., filming live within a closed circuit, the
image is a paraspecular phenomenon that gives us exactly what
happens the moment it happens (even if what happens is a pre-
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 7 5
tense), and it vanishes when the event comes to a conclusion. Some-
one eludes the grasp of the mirror, and vanishes; someone eludes
the eye of the television camera, and vanishes.
Therefore, still from a theoretical point of view, what appears on
the television screen is not a sign of anything: it is a paraspecular
image, which is received by the observer with the same trust ac-
corded to the mirror image.
The fundamental concept of TV that most people have intro-
jected is that of closed-circuit live broadcasting (otherwise the con-
cept of television would not be "thinkable," insofar as it is opposed
to that of the cinema or the theater). And this explains the trusting
attitude we have toward television, as well as our tendency to re-
ceive most programs as if they were closed-circuit live broadcasts.
In short: we take the television image the same way as we take
the telescopic image, with the result that when we look at the
Moon through a telescope, we think that those blotches are really
there. Even the most credulous among us distrust signs (when
someone tells us it is raining, we always think that in reality it may
not be raining), but (almost always) we do not distrust our percep-
tions. We do not distrust TV, because we know that, like all exten-
sive and intrusive prostheses, in the first instance it provides us not
with signs but only with perceptual stimuli.
Let us now try another experiment. By means of some proce-
dure (be it technical or magical) we "freeze" a paraspecular image.
We can freeze it altogether, by printing it on paper, or we can
freeze a sequence of actions on a film that can later be reprojected
so we can see the objects move through time again. We have "in-
vented" both photography and the cinema. That is, even though
historically they come first, from a theoretical point of view photo-
graphic and cinematographic images are an impoverished version
of television images, clumsy inventions, so to speak, attempts to
reach an optimum that was still technically impossible.
And this is why these observations on mirrors lead us to rethink
the semiotic status of photography and the cinema (and even of cer-
tain hyperrealistic painting techniques that seek to reproduce the
effect of a photograph). We are thus led to redefine hypoicons.
37° / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
6 . 1 3 RETHINKING PAINTING
Although they are frozen on an autonomous material (and without
our considering the various possibilities of special effects and stag-
ing), photographic representations provide us with surrogates of per-
ceptual stimuli.
Are these the only cases of such a procedure? Certainly not. We
have come to photography and cinema by deducing them, so to
speak, from mirrors, but all hyperrealistic representation conceals a
specular dream.
The absolute maximum of identification between representative
stimuli and real stimuli is to be found in the theater, where real hu-
man beings must be perceived as such, except for the added con-
ventional fiction, as a result of which they must be seen as Hamlet
or Lady Windermere. The example of the theater is an interest-
ing one: to be able to accept (by suspending one's disbelief) that the
woman acting on the stage is Ophelia, one must first of all perceive
her as a female human being. Hence the puzzlement, or provoca-
tion, that would arise if an avant-garde director were to have
Ophelia played by a man, or by a chimpanzee. Therefore the
theater is an extreme example of a semiosic phenomenon in which,
even before it is possible to understand the meaning of what is hap-
pening and to interpret gestures, words, and events, it is necessary
first of all to bring into play the normal mechanisms whereby we per-
ceive real objects. Then, on the basis of interpretations and expecta-
tions, on perceiving a human body, we participate in the semiosic
process by applying all we know about that body and all we expect
from it: hence the sense of wonder (pleasant or irritating, according
to our disposition) if, by chance, in a theatrical fiction the human
body is raised up into the air by some hidden contraption, or if a
mime makes it move as if it were a marionette.
On the first level of partial surrogation of the stimuli, we find
the figures in the waxworks, where the faces are made as if they
were death masks, perfect congruencies, but the clothes of the
characters portrayed, and the objects surrounding the characters
(tables, chairs, inkwells) are real objects, and sometimes the hair is
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 7 7
real too. These are hypoicons in which we find a balanced blend of
surrogate stimuli, very highly defined (but still vicarious and indi-
rect), and of real objects offered directly to the perception, as in the
theater.
This means that the concept of the surrogate stimulus is a very
hazy one, which can range from a minimum of identification with
the real stimulus (in which it obtains an effect vaguely equivalent
to that of the real stimulus) to a maximum. Which leads us to think
that a sort of principle of charity holds when we are confronted by
surrogate stimuli. The fact that animals too can react to surrogate
stimuli ought to make us favor the possibility of a "natural" prin-
ciple of charity. I do not think I am introducing a new category: at
bottom, a principle of charity is at work in normal perceptual
processes too, when in circumstances where the stimuli are hard to
discern one tends to favor the most obvious interpretation—a rule
broken by those who see flying saucers where others would inter-
pret a bright spot that moves in the sky like an airplane in the
process of landing.3 0
Without therefore detracting anything from the active moment
in the perception and interpretation of hypoicons, we must admit
that there are semiosic phenomena in which, even if we know that
we are dealing with a sign, before perceiving it as a sign of some-
thing else we must first perceive it as a set of stimuli that creates the
effect of our being in the presence of the object. In other words,
we must to accept the idea that there is a perceptual basis even in
the interpretation of the hypoicon (Sonesson 1989: 327) or that the
visual image is first and foremost something that offers itself to the
perception (Saint-Martin 1990).
If we get back to the waxwork figure, and admit that a good
photograph poses the same problem, even though the stimuli it
brings into play are "more" surrogate and vicarious, it must be ad-
mitted that the majority of attempts to analyze so-called iconic
signs in morphological and grammatical terms—as if they could
be subdivided in a way typical of other sign systems, starting from
the principle that a photo, for example, can be broken down into
the smallest elements of the screen upon which it is founded—have
378 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
been largely frustrated. These minimum elements become gram-
matical entities when they are intentionally magnified as such, that
is, when the screen does not tend to disappear to give the effect of a
perceptual surrogate but instead is enlarged and highlighted with a
view to constructing (if nothing else, an objet trouve, in terms of
aesthetic interpretation) abstract symmetries and oppositions.
In this case, in a picture, all we are doing is distinguishing the
figurative elements from the plastic ones. Whereas a hypoicon refers
(however it refers, and whatever the form of the expression) to a
content (whether it be an element of the natural world or the cul-
tural world, as in the case of the unicorn), in the perception of
plastic elements one is essentially interested in the form of the ex-
pression. Therefore an enlargement of a photo that magnifies its
screen would be a way of pertinentizing the plastic elements of the
form of the expression, almost always at the expense of the figura-
tive elements.3 1
As has already been said, as long as the image is still
perceivable, the fact that its digital nature has been made clear is no
argument against its iconism. It is as if on the television screen we
were to go to individuate, from close up, the lines traced by the
electron beam. It would be an interesting plastic experiment, but
usually the effect of those lines is comparable to the effect of a mir-
ror that has been painted with opaque strips at regular intervals. If
the strips are not too many, so that recognition of the image is ren-
dered impossible (just as if on the television screen the lines are not
too few), we treat the surface of the mirror as if it were misted over
or marked (with reduced definition, as if the water in Narcissus's
pool became cloudy, but not too much), and we do our best to inte-
grate the stimuli and perceive a satisfactory image.
Yet the screen test is not a useless one. The fact is that, by work-
ing on enlarged screens, we measure the threshold beyond which
the image is no longer perceivable and a purely plastic construction
appears. What counts (see Maldonado 1974, plate 182) is the last
stage of rarefaction at which the figure is still perceived: that stage
represents the minimum of definition necessary for any stimulus to
function as a surrogate stimulus (and not to function as a purely
plastic stimulus). Naturally this threshold varies according to how
Iconism and Hypoicon I yjg
well the object represented is already known. No matter how
grainy the screen is, the faces of Napoleon or Marilyn Monroe will
always be more recognizable than those of unknown persons: the
lower the definition and the less known the object, the greater the
inferential process required. But I think we can say that beyond
this threshold we leave the territory of surrogate stimuli to enter
that of the sign.
There is a passage in Ockham that has always perplexed and dis-
quieted me, in which the philosopher states not only that if on
coming across the statue of Hercules, I do not compare the statue to
the original, I cannot say if it resembles him or not (an observation
born of pure good sense) but also that the statue does not allow me
to know what Hercules looks like if I have not met him before (i.e.,
if I do not have notitia mentalis regarding him). Yet, as the police
forces of the world have shown us, on the basis of a passport photo
one can (or one can try to) identify a wanted person.
One possible interpretation of this curious opinion is that
Ockham was familiar with the Gothic and Romanesque statuary of
the previous centuries, which portrayed human types, through
highly regulated iconic schemata, rather than individuals, as was
the case with Roman statuary and with the statuary of the centuries
to come. Therefore he wanted to tell us that, in conditions of low
definition, the hypoicon allows us to perceive generic but not indi-
vidual features.
Let us think of a normal passport photograph, one of those
taken in a hurry and badly in a photo booth. On the basis of such
a document it would be very difficult for a policeman to identify
the right person in a crowd without making a major blunder. The
same thing happens with police sketches, on the basis of which
many of us could be held responsible for horrendous crimes, be-
cause it frequently happens that the sketch does not resemble the
wanted person and that many of us resemble the sketch.
Passport-size photos are imprecise, because both the pose and
the lighting leave much to be desired. The police sketch is impre-
cise, because it represents an artist's interpretation of the verbal ex-
pressions a witness uses to make a schematic reconstruction of the
380 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
features of an individual who in many cases was seen for only a few
moments. In both instances, hypoicons refer to generic and not in-
dividual features. This does nothing to alter the fact that, in the
presence of both the photo and the sketch, each of us is able to rec-
ognize these generic features (the person is a male, has a mustache
and a low hairline, or the person is a woman, not that young,
blond, with full lips). All the rest is inferred in order to pass from
the generic to the individual. But that modicum of the generic that
is grasped depends on the fact that a very poor portrait has pro-
vided us in an even poorer fashion with surrogates for perceptual
stimuli, otherwise the photo on my driving license would be indis-
tinguishable from that of a penguin.
6.14 RECOGNITION
Let us imagine that in a family the mother keeps on her desk a
stack of rectangular filing cards, of various colors. She uses them
for different kinds of notes: red cards for kitchen expenses, blue for
travel and holidays, green for clothing, yellow for medical ex-
penses, white for her work appointments, sky blue for noting down
the passages that strike her most when she reads a book, et cetera.
Every so often she adds these cards to the others in the filing cabi-
net, divided up by color, so she always knows where to find a cer-
tain piece of information. For her those rectangles are signs: not in
the sense that they are the physical support for the graphic signs she
has made on them but in the sense that, even before they are filed
away, they already refer to their own particular topic—in accor-
dance with the various colors; they are expressions of an elemen-
tary semiotic system, within which every color is correlated to a
content.
But her little boy always tries to get hold of them to play—to
build houses of cards, let's say. Naturally he distinguishes between
their shapes and colors very well, but for him they are not expres-
sions, they are objects and that's that.
We may say that the cognitive type that allows the mother to
identify the cards is more complex than that of the child. She might
Iconism and Hypoicon I 381
feel a sense of disquiet on picking up a yellow card, blank or filled
in as the case may be, because this would mean that she would have
to deal with questions of health; whereas the child might be indif-
ferent to the color and more interested in the consistency of the fil-
ing cards (or he might simply prefer his houses of cards to be red).
But if mummy tells the little boy to go to fetch her a red card from
the desk, and the act of reference is crowned with success, this
means that the fundamental perceptual process for the recognition
of the cards is the same for both mother and son. Before the upper
levels of semiosis, where the cards become expressions, there is a
level of stable perceptual semiosis for all the actors in this little do-
mestic comedy.
We can now consider ways of recognition that concern pertinent
nonvisual features, such as sound phenomena. The phenomenon of
recognition is also at the root of a fundamental semiosic activity,
such as verbal language.3 2
As is suggested in Gibson (1968: 93-93), phonemes are potential
stimuli like natural sounds, but the characteristic thing about them
is that for the listener they must be interpreted not just as pure
stimuli but also as responses (for Gibson, in the sense that they have
been deliberately produced by someone with a view to having that
particular phoneme recognized). As Peirce would have put it, to
recognize a sound made by the language as such, one must have al-
ready entered Thirdness. If I hear a sound on the street, I can al-
ways decide not to interpret it, to consider it a part of background
noise. I can do the same with phonemes too, when I vaguely regis-
ter that someone is talking in my vicinity but am uninterested in
what he is saying, and therefore I put it all down to noise or chatter.
But if someone speaks to me, I must decide both that he is talking
and what he is saying.
Now, recognizing a phoneme certainly means identifying it as
the token of a type. This recognition might be founded on a phe-
nomenon of primary semiosis, that of "categorial perception" (see
Petitot 1983, 1985a, 1985b). But what most interests me is that,
above and beyond the laboratory experience, to perceive a phoneme
as such amid the confusion of the sound environment I must make
382 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
the interpretative decision that it is indeed a phoneme and not an
interjection or groan or sound emitted by chance. It is a matter of
starting from a sound substance in order to perceive it as the form of
an expression. The phenomenon can be rapid, even unconscious,
but this does not alter the fact that it is interpretative.
Moreover, we can categorize a phonation or a string of phona-
tions as phonemes without having yet ascertained to which phono-
logical system they belong. It is enough to think of international
conferences: someone comes up and starts talking; she emits one or
two introductory sounds, and we have to decide what language she
is speaking. If she says [ma], we might be dealing with an adversa-
tive in Italian, or a possessive in French. Naturally people speak in
an uninterrupted flow, so even before we make an interpretative
decision about the first phoneme that someone has emitted, we are
already in the context of the spoken string. We are of course guided
by the accent, by a meaning that we attribute tentatively to the
phonations. But what should be stressed here is that this is in fact a
matter of interpretation, whereby we decide both about the mate-
rial identity of the stimulus and about the functional identity of the
stimulus.3 3
There is therefore a perceptual process both in the recognition of
a dog and in the recognition of the word dog scribbled on a sheet of
paper.
However, I do not think we can say that it is the same thing to
perceive a photo of a dog as the hypoicon of a dog, and as a conse-
quence to perceive the dog as the token of a perceptual type, and to
perceive a scribble on the wall as a token of the word dog. In cases
of trompe l'oeil, I might even think I am perceiving a real dog di-
rectly without realizing that it is a hypoicon; with the written
word, I can perceive it as such only after I have decided that it is a
sign.
6 . 1 5 ALPHA AND BETA MODE: A CATASTROPHE POINT?
Having now established a few fixed points, let us try to take up the
thread of our discourse. Basic semiosic processes take place in per-
Iconism and Hypoicon I 383
ception. We perceive fixed points because we construct cognitive
types, interwoven no doubt with culture and convention but
nonetheless largely dependent on determinations from the stimu-
lating field. To understand a sign as such, we must first bring
perceptual processes into play, that is to say, we must perceive sub-
stances as forms of expression.
But there are signs whose expression plane, in order to be recog-
nized as such, must be perceived (even if by virtue of surrogate
stimuli) through basic semiosis, so that we could perceive them as
signs even if we decided we were not dealing with the expression of
a sign function. In such cases I shall talk of alpha mode.3 5
On the other hand, there are cases where to perceive a substance
as form I must first of all presume that it is an expression of a sign
function, deliberately produced with a view to communicating. In
such cases I shall talk of beta mode.
It is through alpha mode that we perceive pictures (or photos, or
a film image: note the reaction of the first spectators at the Lumiere
brothers' projection of a train arriving at the station) as if they were
the "scene" itself. It is only on subsequent reflection that we estab-
lish the fact that we are confronted with a sign function. It is
thanks to beta mode that the word house is recognized without be-
ing confused with hose: we favor the assumption that this must be
a linguistic expression, and that this linguistic expression must
find itself in a rational context, which is why, on having to decide
whether the speaker has said The house in which I live is a hundred
yards away or The hose in which I live is a hundred yards away, we
tend (under normal circumstances) to favor the first interpretation.
I define as alpha mode that mode in which, even before deciding
we are confronted with the expression of a sign function, we per-
ceive through surrogate stimuli a given object or scene which we
then elect as the expression plane of a sign function.
I define as beta mode that mode in which, in order to perceive
the expression plane of sign functions, it is necessary first to pre-
sume that we are in fact dealing with expressions, and the supposi-
tion that they are indeed expressions orients our perception.
The alpha/beta distinction does not correspond to that between
384 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
motivated and conventional signs. The face of a clock is a moti-
vated expression of planetary movement, or of what we know
about it (we are dealing with a case of ratio difficilis), nevertheless
we must first perceive that face as a sign (beta mode) before being
able to read it as a motivated sign (and so the position x of the
hands is in motivated correspondence with the position y of the sun
in the sky, and vice versa). Alpha mode would let me perceive only
a circular form across which two little rods move, and this is how a
primitive who has never seen a clock would see one.
It is obvious that, whatever the circumstances, we must first per-
ceive the substance of the expression, but in alpha mode a substance
is perceived as form even before this form is recognized as the form
of an expression. All that is recognized, as Greimas would put it, is
a "figure of the world." In beta mode, on the other hand, a form
must be interpreted as the form of an expression before it can be
identified.
Just how fuzzy is the boundary between the two modes is re-
vealed by the two drawings in figure 6.8 (Gentner and Markman
•995)-
The first impact is perceptual. Confronted with the surrogate
stimulus that offers me two basic parallelepiped structures set
above two circular structures, I perceive a generic "land vehicle."
Of course, in this phase too, if I have never had any experience of a
vehicle, it would be hard for me to identify it as such. Montezuma,
who had no knowledge of wheeled vehicles, might have "seen"
something else in these drawings, for example, two eyes under a
strange shape of helmet. But he would still have interpreted surro-
gate stimuli in the light of one of his own cognitive types.
When I move on from the perception of a vehicle to the inter-
pretation of the various vehicles in play as motorcar, motorboat,
and tow truck, much encyclopedic knowledge has already inter-
vened. I have already entered Thirdness. Once I have perceived
"vehicle," I must proceed from the recognition of the percept (ow-
ing to surrogate stimuli) to the interpretation of a scene. I then rec-
ognize it as the hypoiconic representation of a real scene, and I
begin to use the image as an expression that refers me to a content.
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 8 5
Only at that point can I elaborate macropropositions that put the
two scenes into words: I note an inverse symmetry between them
(in the first drawing, the car is being towed by the truck; in the sec-
ond it is the car that is towing the motorboat), and, if I possess an
"Unlucky Weekend" script, I can also put the sequence back in or-
der by putting the second drawing in place of the first.
But what interests us here is that only after having interpreted
the two scenes as hypoicons can I understand the circle depicted in
both images as a sun (otherwise it could have been any other circu-
lar object, or a circle, in the geometric sense of the term), and,
above all, only then can I understand the two squiggles in the
second image as birds (out of context, I might have understood
386 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
them as hills or as a clumsy transcription of the number 3 3 ) . This
example strikes me as a very useful one for demonstrating the
oscillations that continuously intervene, in our interpretation of hy-
poicons, between the alpha and beta modes. That sun and those
birds were not perceivable the way the vehicles were. First I had to
decide that they were two signs that stood for something, and only af-
terward did I try to understand them as if they were surrogate
stimuli (very poorly defined). In a certain sense, in order to inter-
pret those signs as signs of surrogate stimuli, I had to appeal to the
principle of charity.
6 . 1 6 FROM PERCEPTUAL LIKENESS TO
CONCEPTUAL SIMILARITIES
It seems clear to me that to speak of alpha and beta modes does not
mean returning to the theory of "scales of iconicity." The scales es-
tablished degrees of abstraction, while here we are talking about a
catastrophe point. The classic scales of iconicity can at best establish
the difference between a photo of a car and a schematic drawing of
a car, and they discriminate among different levels of definition of
the surrogate stimuli. But the possible responses with respect to the
two drawings we have examined go beyond the scales of iconicity
to bring categorial relations into play. Yet we talk of similarity or
analogy even with respect to categorial relations, just as we are
led to say that the motorboat is similar to the motorcar from the
standpoint of vehicular function. We have entered a territory that
seems totally propositional and categorial, which is that of so-called
metaphorical similarity, with the result that we can call the camel
"the ship of the desert" (above and beyond all possible morphologi-
cal similarities, and on the basis of a purely functional analogy).
Let us examine a series of assertions (after Cacciari 1995):
(i) He looks like Stephen to me.
(ii) These flowers look real.
(iii) I think someone's ringing the doorbell.
(iv) That portrait looks like me.
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 8 7
(v) He looks exactly like his father.
(vi) Wittgenstein's rabbit looks like a duck (or vice versa).
(vii) That cloud looks like a camel.
(viii) This music sounds like Mozart.
(ix) When he smiles, he looks like a cat.
(x) She looks ill.
(xi) He looks angry.
(xi) A camel is like a taxi.
(xiii) Conferences are like sleeping pills.
(xiv) Sleeping pills are like conferences.
Certainly (i) and (iv) are based on primary iconism. We have al-
ready dealt with the recognition of faces, and there are some who
persuasively maintain that this is an innate capacity, also found in
animals. Artificial flowers, like waxwork figures, are an example of
very high definition surrogate stimuli. As for the impression that
we can hear the doorbell, it is like the impression of perceiving a
certain phoneme. In the presence of imprecise stimuli, we relate the
token to a type; but we could have decided that it was the tele-
phone, or, as often happens, that the sound of a bell (very high
definition surrogate stimulus) was coming from the television pro-
gram we were watching. Finally, the impression of likeness gen-
erated by those hypoicons that are photographs and hyperrealist
paintings (iv) has already been discussed.
A sentence such as (v) has to do with primary iconism (and with
the recognition of faces), but on a more abstract level. Here we are
not recognizing a face, we are selecting some features common to
two faces, leaving the rest in obscurity. We are all well aware that,
from a certain point of view, a person can resemble his father and
mother both, and sometimes the impression is wholly subjective,
and optative (the last resort of cuckolds).
Sentences (vi) and (vii) have to do with phenomena related to the
perceptual ambiguity of hypoicons. As the drawing gradually be-
comes more abstract, we enter the Droodle zone (as in fig. 6.9), in
which the iconic hook is minimal and the remainder is a system of
expectations and prepositional suggestion (key to interpretation).
388 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
Sentences (viii) and (ix) pose serious problems. A piece of music
may resemble Mozart for reasons of timbre, melody, harmony, or
rhythm, and it is hard to say on what bases (from which point of
view) the judgment of likeness is made. Out of prudence I would
consider the judgment of likeness as being akin to that of the like-
ness between father and son. In Malaparte's La pelle, there is a fine
page in which it is related how, on listening to Addinsel's Warsaw
Concerto, certain English officers say that it sounds like Chopin,
while the author manifests doubts of an aesthetic nature. I would
say that Malaparte is behaving like a cuckolded but aware hus-
band, who rejects attributions of likeness between him and his pre-
sumed son (or, better, he is refusing to recognize Addinsel as the
son of Chopin). For reasons that are still mysterious, I would put
the sentence on the cat in the same category. The reasons for which
someone's smile reminds me of that of a cat could be the same (ce-
teris paribus), and so Addinsel can seem to be Chopin, and they
largely depend on what I think both Chopin and a cat are.
To say that someone looks ill probably has only rhetorical value.
As a matter of fact, the term "to look" is used metaphorically to ex-
press a symptomatic inference, but a perceptive doctor might say
that by certain physiognomic features he can immediately recog-
nize someone suffering from a certain disease. In this sense, saying
that someone looks ill to me would be like saying that someone
looks angry to me. It would concern a capacity (I do not intend to
state whether innate or based on cultural competence) whereby a
passion can be recognized by the facial expression. There is a great
deal of literature on this subject, and I think the question is still
open to debate. There is no doubt that from the point of view of the
polemic from the sixties it was not difficult for the iconoclasts to
recognize the evident fact that Asians express their feelings differ-
ently from Europeans, but it must perforce be admitted that a
smile (whatever feeling it expresses, be it embarrassment or good
humor) is perceived on the basis of iconically universal physiog-
nomic features.
It would be hard to say that (xii) through (xiv) are based on mor-
phological similarities. We are completely on the categorial level.
Iconism and Hypoicon I 3 8 9
Similarity is established from the point of view of certain properties
that are propositionally attributed to the objects in play. To such a
degree that, contrary to current opinion (see Kubovy 1995 and
Tversky 1997), I think it can be said with equal efficacy both that
conferences are like sleeping pills and that sleeping pills are like
conferences. It is true that in the first case the salient feature of the
predicate (sleeping pills induce sleep) is a peripheral feature of
the subject, while in the second case it would seem that no salient
feature of the predicate is a peripheral feature of the subject. But
after years of frequenting seminars and conferences, I hold that one
salient feature of conferences is their ability to induce sleep, and if
I said to a colleague that sleeping pills are like conferences, my
metaphor would be understood. Which confirms that on these con-
ceptual levels similarity is only a question of cultural stipulation.
What is the threshold that separates these levels of so-called
"similarity"? I think we can draw a line of demarcation between
cases (i) through (xi) and cases (xii) through (xiv). In the first eleven
cases, the judgment of likeness is pronounced on perceptual bases.
In the other three cases, we apply successive levels of interpretation
and greater knowledge, which is why the analogy can be estab-
lished on purely propositional bases: I can say that a camel seems a
taxi or a ship of the desert even if I have never seen a camel and
possess a purely cultural knowledge of them (for example, they
have been described to me as animals that are used as a means of
transport in the desert). I can say that uranium is like dynamite
even if I have never had any perceptual experience of a uranium
sample, knowing only that it is an element used to trigger atomic
bombs.
Yet even at these propositional levels there lingers, albeit in a
most pallid form, a shade of primary iconism (in the same way as I
would tend to say that cultural elements intervene even at levels on
which the presence of primary iconism appears with greater clar-
ity): as if to say that for different subjects the threshold between al-
pha and beta mode shifts in accordance with criteria that cannot be
established a priori but depend on circumstances.
In the expression The dog bites the cat, it is beta mode that allows
39° / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
us to recognize dog and cat as words in the English language, but
what has been called a phenomenon of syntactic iconism is recog-
nized through alpha mode: in English syntax, the fact that the
sequence is "A + verb + B" tells us, through a perception of vecto-
riality, that A performs the action and B undergoes it.
An interesting example of similarity at the limits of the categor-
ial is given by Hofstadter (1979: 168—70) apropos of two different
melodies, which he calls BACH and CAGE, taking advantage of
the fact that musical notation also makes use of alphabetical letters.
The two melodies are different but share a "skeleton" that is the
same from the point of view of the intervals and the relations be-
tween them. The first, from the opening note, goes down one
semitone, then goes up by three semitones, and finally goes down
again by one semitone (-1, +3, - 1 ) . The second goes down three
semitones, goes up by ten, and then goes down again by three (-3,
+ 10, -3). It is therefore possible to obtain CAGE by starting from
BACH and multiplying each interval by 3 1 / 2 and then rounding
down to the smaller number.
I have tried playing the two melodies and would not say that a
normal ear could perceive any likeness at all. Hofstadter has un-
doubtedly constituted a criterion of similarity on a conceptual level.
Nonetheless, although we are a very long way from something that
can be "perceived," the iconism of perception is implicit in the fact
that if the similarity is to be established, we must assume the percep-
tion of the intervals, or at least of the single notes (and in this regard
at least, Peirce would say that we are in the presence of pure icons).3 6
Again Hofstadter (1979: 723) lists a series of bizarre objects that
nonetheless strike us as similar from some points of view or, rather,
that share a common "conceptual skeleton": a tandem unicycle, a
piano concerto for two left hands, a one-voice fugue, the art of
clapping with one hand. In all these cases we would have "a plural
thing made singular and repluralized wrongly." I would say: "We
have a context that demands two actants, we isolate only one of
them and put it back into the original context to perform the func-
tion of two actants." Here I think it can be said that no element of
perceptual iconism subsists. The rule can be expressed in purely
Iconism and Hypoicon / 391
propositional terms; the sense of familiarity aroused by these
strange objects springs from reflection and interpretation, it is not
immediately given. We apply the rule, and we immediately find an
example that Hofstadter did not make but could have made: we
find an activity with two actants, for example, the snap of two fin-
gers; we isolate one actant only, the thumb; we put it back into the
original context to perform the function of both actants, and we
have the snap of one thumb.
Naturally it might always be said that each of these "scenes"
could be mentally visualized (in a way similar to the impression
one receives when confronted with "impossible figures"). But I
would say that this is a consequent and nonnecessary interpretative
effect. I do not think anyone could visualize a biciphalus and a pen-
tacalidus (because these are two objects that I have just invented),
but I believe it is possible to identify a conceptual skeleton common
to a monociphaloid biciphalus and a pentacalidus with two calids.
6 . 1 7 T H E MEXICAN ON A BICYCLE
Along the scale that leads by degrees from a maximum of alpha
mode to a maximum of beta mode, we pass through a maximum of
extremely high definition surrogate stimuli (the waxwork figure)
and a maximum of abstraction, where the stimuli (even if still vi-
sual) no longer have pictorial efficacy but only plastic value. Let us
look at figure 6.9, which reproduces one of those very well-known
visual "puns" called Droodles.
Figure 6.9
392 / K A N T A N D T H E P L A T Y P U S
As some will know and others will not, the solution is "bird's-eye
view of a Mexican on a bicycle," and once the key has been found,
aided by a certain degree of goodwill, we can identify the sombrero
and the external part of the two wheels. But with just as much
goodwill we might also see a Mississippi paddle steamer or Cyrano
and Pinocchio sitting back to back under a beach umbrella. This is
why, during the polemic on iconism, the (perfectly correct and in-
dispensable) principle was assumed that from a suitable point of
view and in an appropriate context anything can resemble anything
else, all the way to the equally famous black square that is to be read
"black cat on a moonless night." What perception gives me, in the
case of the "Mexican" droodle, is not much help when it comes to
making an interpretative decision. I certainly perceive two concen-
tric circles and two radically flattened semiellipses. Let us admit
that we are instinctively led to identify only one flattened ellipse,
partly hidden by the larger circle; a whole psychological tradition is
there to confirm this, even if we failed to notice it ourselves, and this
is always a good proof of the inferential nature of perception. But in
order to decide that those forms represent a given object or a scene,
I must possess or guess the key (a verbal one in this case, unhappily).
Afterward, I can adapt what I perceive to what I know.
So, between the sixties and the seventies the polemic focused on
a relaxed use of the notion of "likeness" (which exempted many
people from the need to establish rules of "similarity"), and there-
fore there was more argument about those so-called iconic signs
with "symbolic" characteristics (in the sense of Thirdness), such as
the Mexican Droodle, than about photographs or hyperrealist rep-
resentations. This also explains why opponents of iconism pointed
out that the iconist position was weak with regard to iconography
and diagrammatics in general.
Much emphasis was—very rightly—laid on beta mode, but al-
pha mode was left in obscurity. In the heat of the debate, which has
never completely died down, we neglected, and perhaps still ne-
glect, to identify (according to individuals, cultures, circumstances,
and contexts) the threshold between the two modes and to recog-
nize its "fuzzy" nature.3 7
