Figure 1.
Top: Relative locations of major parts of the human brain.
The cerebral cortical mantle, which has about thirty billion neurons,
receives projections from the thalamus and sends reciprocal projec-
tions back; this constitutes the thalamocortical system. Beneath the
mantle are three major cortical appendages: the basal ganglia and
cerebellum (both of which regulate movement), and the hippo-
campus, which is necessary for memory. Below them is the
oldest part of the brain in evolutionary terms, the brain stem,
which contains several diffusely projecting value systems.
Bottom: Synaptic connections between two neurons. An action
potential traveling down the axon of the presynaptic neuron causes
the release of a neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft. The trans-
mitter molecules bind to receptors in the postsynaptic membrane,
changing the probability that the postsynaptic cell will, in turn,
fire its own action potential. Particular sequences of activity can
either strengthen or weaken the synapse, changing its efficacy.
(Because of the number of different shapes and kinds of
neurons, this drawing is a greatly simplified cartoon.)
02edelmanCh02.012_022 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 17
(figure 1, top) has about thirty billion nerve cells or neurons and
one million billion connections. The number of possible active
pathways of such a structure far exceeds the number of ele-
mentary particles in the known universe.
This is not the place to go into detail about how the brain
gives rise to consciousness. I have done that in several books,
which may be consulted. But I do want to provide a working
picture of brain structure and activity. I propose to use a mix-
ture of down-to-earth description, analogy, and metaphor—
just enough to give an idea of how consciousness arises.
To start with, let’s consider the fundamental cells that
carry signals in the brain. These are the neurons, which have
a treelike set of branches (dendrites) and usually a single ex-
tended process (the axon) that serves to connect one neuron to
another. This connection, called the synapse (figure 1, bottom),
is a critical element in ensuring the function of brain circuits.
This is so because electricity traveling down the axon releases
little packets of chemicals called neurotransmitters at the
synapse. These chemicals cross the small distance inside the
synapse and bind to certain receptors present often at the den-
drites of the receiving cell. If the release happens often enough,
the receiving or postsynaptic cell fires and can repeat the process
and signal yet another cell. Imagine such a process summing
up across a myriad of synapses, and you will get an idea of
why with modern methods we can actually record the other-
Consciousness, Body, and Brain
18
02edelmanCh02.012_022 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 18
wise minute currents and potentials over the scalp. Neuro-
physiologists can in fact record more precisely from single
cells by invading the brain and inserting microscopic elec-
trodes within individual neurons.
A key property of synapses is that they are plastic: various
activities and biochemical events can change their strength.
These changes can in turn determine which neuronal path-
ways are selected to transmit signals. Patterns of such changes
in synaptic strength provide a basis for memory. At this point,
it may be useful to mention that synapses come in two flavors:
excitatory and inhibitory. Both can exhibit plasticity; together
they help select the functioning signal pathways of the brain.
Now an important next step in this bowdlerized account
is to point out that the overall anatomical connections and path-
ways in the brain of a given animal species are selected during
evolution and development. The result is a stunning set of dif-
ferent brain areas and cell collections called nuclei. Each of
these has both short-range and long-range inputs and outputs.
Let us look at the visual pathway in monkeys as an ex-
ample. Light, striking cells in the retina, excites the optic nerve,
whose signals ultimately reach a structure called the thalamus,
a central player in our story. The thalamus is a small structure
that is of great importance in any account of consciousness.
Thalamic neurons mediating vision send axons to an area of
the cerebral cortex called V1
. From there, all kinds of pathways
Consciousness, Body, and Brain
19
02edelmanCh02.012_022 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 19
within the cortex are elaborated to areas called V2, V3, and V4,
among others. Indeed, at least thirty-three different cortical areas
are involved in one way or another in the process of vision.
Two important facts about this and several other sensory
systems have emerged. The first is that, in general, each brain
area is functionally segregated: in vision, V1 for orientation of
objects, V4 for color, V5 for object motion. The second fact is
that there is no one area controlling and coordinating the re-
sponses of all the rest when a complex visual signal comes
from, say, a colored moving object of particular shape. As we
shall see, the brain nevertheless has means to coordinate the
segregated perceptual events that occur when such a stimulus
strikes the retina. The net result of such coordination is per-
ceptual categorization—the carving up of the world of inputs
into objects significant for a given animal species’ recognition.
The brain carries out pattern recognition. We could go on about
sensory systems other than vision, but the principles are simi-
lar even if their receptors and inputs differ.
What about outputs? Well, different sensory areas con-
nect to “higher” areas in the cortex so that the brain speaks
mainly to itself. Of course, one set of cortical areas sends
motor output signals to the spinal cord and thence to our mus-
cles to elicit various actions and movements. Furthermore, the
cortex receives additional inputs from, and yields outputs to, a
number of subcortical structures besides the thalamus. These
(see figure 1) include the basal ganglia and cerebellum, which
Consciousness, Body, and Brain
20
02edelmanCh02.012_022 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 20
help to regulate movement, and the hippocampus, which helps
establish long-term memory of events and episodes by inter-
acting with the cortex.
So far, what I have said could superficially be thought to
describe a system analogous to an electronic device such as a
computer. Indeed, in many scientific circles, there remains a
widespread belief that the brain is a computer. This belief is
mistaken for a number of reasons.3
First, the computer works
by using logic and arithmetic in very short intervals regulated
by a clock. As we shall see, the brain does not operate by logi-
cal rules. To function, a computer must receive unambiguous
input signals. But signals to various sensory receptors of the
brain are not so organized; the world (which is not carved be-
forehand into prescribed categories) is not a piece of coded
tape. Second, the brain order that I have briefly described is
enormously variable at its finest levels. As neural currents de-
velop, variant individual experiences leave imprints such that
no two brains are identical, even those of identical twins. This
is so in large measure because, during the development and es-
tablishment of neuroanatomy, neurons that fire together wire
together. Furthermore, there is no evidence for a computer
program consisting of effective procedures that would control
a brain’s input, output, and behavior. Artificial intelligence
doesn’t work in real brains. There is no logic and no precise
clock governing the outputs of our brains no matter how regu-
lar they may appear.
Consciousness, Body, and Brain
21
02edelmanCh02.012_022 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 21
Last, it should be stressed that we are not born with enough
genes to specify the synaptic complexity of higher brains like
ours. Of course, the fact that we have human brains and not
chimpanzee brains does depend on our gene networks. But
these gene networks, like those in the brain themselves, are
enormously variable since their various expression patterns
depend on environmental context and individual experience.
If the mammalian brain is not a computer, what is it? How
does it work? We must answer these questions before we can
explain the brain bases of consciousness.
Consciousness, Body, and Brain
22
02edelmanCh02.012_022 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 22
three
Selectionism
A P R E R E Q U I S I T E F O R C O N S C I O U S N E S S
Theories have four stages of acceptance: i) this is
worthless nonsense; ii) this is an interesting, but
perverse, point of view; iii) this is true, but quite
unimportant; iv) I always said so.
— J. B. S. HALDANE
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 23
T H E D E S C R I P T I O N S I H AV E given of consciousness and the
brain now have to be connected in a satisfactory way. This
will require the presentation of a theory that accounts for co-
herent brain action in the absence of computation. It will also
entail the exploration of a number of essential concepts that
are likely to be unfamiliar. To make them understandable, I am
going to use a number of biological examples and some non-
biological analogies. I will then connect them to our main task:
to see how consciousness evolved and how it arises in indi-
vidual brains.
Before we turn to theoretical issues, we must not lose
sight of one set of facts: The brain is embodied and the body
is embedded. First, consider embodiment. All of the activities
I described in the last chapter depend on signals to the brain
from the body and from the brain to the body. The brain’s
maps and connections are altered not only by what you sense
but by how you move. In turn, the brain regulates fundamen-
tal biological functions of your body’s organs in addition to
controlling the motions and actions that guide your senses.
These functions include fundamental aspects of sex, breathing,
heartbeat, and so on, as well as the responses that accompany
emotion. If we include the brain as your favorite organ, you
are your body.
Second, consider embeddedness. Your body is embedded
and situated in a particular environment, influencing it and
being influenced by it. This set of interactions defines your
Selectionism
24
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 24
econiche, as it is called. It is well to remember that the human
species evolved (along with the brain) in a sequence of such
niches. I emphasize these facts because, for brevity, I will often
talk of the brain without reference to the other two members
of the critical triad, the body and the econiche. Remember,
when that happens, that the critical triad is still at the back of
my mind.
Now to the theory to provide a basis for understanding
consciousness. Such a theory must account for both the diver-
sity and the regularity of brain responses in the absence of the
control by logic and a precise clock that are the hallmarks of a
computer.
Where can we turn after relinquishing the notion of com-
putation? The answer is provided by turning to Darwin’s fun-
damental idea of population thinking.1
Darwin proposed that
categories (of characters or of species) could arise by selection
from a population of variant individuals—individuals having
different traits. According to his seminal idea of natural selec-
tion, competition within and between species would result in
the survival and reproduction of those individuals that were,
on the average, fitter than others. As a result, their progeny
and—as we now know—their genes would survive. Natural
selection is differential reproduction. The extraordinary con-
cept that Darwin put forth was that variation in a population
is not just noise but in fact provides the substrate for selection
and possible survival.
Selectionism
25
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 25
All of this takes place in evolution over millions of years.
But can a selective system work within the lifetime of an indi-
vidual? We now know that it can: the immune system of ver-
tebrates is a selective system.2
Your body recognizes shapes of
foreign molecules (such as portions of bacteria or viruses or
even of simpler organic compounds) through a system of mole-
cules called antibodies. These proteins circulate in your blood
and are also present on the surface of the central cells of im-
munity called lymphocytes.
Immunologists, confronted with the fact that antibodies
could bind and even distinguish foreign molecules that never
existed before, came up with an instructive theory. It proposed
that an antibody, as it was formed, would fold around the
shape of the injected foreign molecule (or antigen). The antigen
would then be removed, leaving a cavity complementary to its
shape. The antibody could then bind to this antigen on future
encounters. The idea was beguilingly simple, and it turned out
to be wrong.
In fact, it turned out that immune recognition takes place
by selection, not by instruction. Within each lymphocyte in
your body, the gene for an antibody undergoes variation by
mutation and a process called recombination. The result is
that the part of the antibody protein that can bind to a foreign
antigen on the surface of a given cell is distinctive and unique.
Inasmuch as there are as many as one hundred billion lympho-
cytes, each with one kind of antibody on its surface, a diverse
Selectionism
26
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 26
population is formed. When a foreign antigen binds to one or
more of the cells via the antibodies that fit its shape, those cells
get a signal to divide and produce more of that antibody. The
outcome is that subsequent exposures to the immunizing anti-
gen result in speedy binding and neutralization by the much
larger number of “specific” antibodies. (I know this system well,
having spent a good portion of my research life on this exqui-
site selectional system and, together with my colleagues, hav-
ing worked out the chemical structure of antibodies.)
What can we learn from the examples of evolution and
immunity? First, we see that there must be a generator of di-
versity (GOD). Next, there must be a challenge by the envi-
ronment confronting a species with competition (evolution) or
a body with foreign molecules (immunity). Third, there must
be differential amplification or reproduction of those variants
that are fitter (in evolution) or that fit (as in antigen binding).
But note that the mechanisms by which these three principles
operate are not the same in the two cases.
We can exploit this conclusion by suggesting that the brain,
like the immune system, is a selection system that operates
within an individual’s lifetime. I proposed this notion in 1977
and elaborated it subsequently under the name Neural Dar-
winism.3
The theory has three tenets. The first is that the de-
velopment of neuronal circuits in the brain leads to enormous
microscopic anatomical variation that is a result of a process of
continual selection. A major driving force for this develop-
Selectionism
27
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 27
mental selection is the fact that, even in the fetus, neurons that
fire together wire together. Two distant neurons will, for ex-
ample, make synaptic connections if their firing patterns are
temporally correlated. Second, an additional and overlapping
set of selective events occurs when the repertoire of anatomi-
cal circuits that are formed receives signals because of an ani-
mal’s behavior or experience. This experiential selection occurs
through changes in the strength of the synapses that already
exist in the brain anatomy. Some synapses are strengthened
and some are weakened. It is as if police officers stationed at a
particular synapse facilitate signaling from axon to dendrite,
while at other synapses, police officers would reduce such sig-
naling. The resultant combinations of signal paths that can be
followed in the brain are vast in number, as are the neuronal
groups that constitute the selected elements.
The net result of developmental and experiential selection
is that some neural circuits are favored over others. But since
we abandoned the computer with its logic and clock, how do
we get coherent behavior out of the system? And what biases
the system to yield adaptive responses? The answer to the
first question lies in the third tenet of the theory, which pro-
poses a process called reentry.4
Reentry is the continual signal-
ing from one brain region (or map) to another and back again
across massively parallel fibers (axons) that are known to be
omnipresent in higher brains. Reentrant signal paths constantly
change with the speed of thought (figure 2).
Selectionism
28
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 28
Figure 2.
Reentry is illustrated here by interconnections within the
thalamocortical system. The anatomical arrangements include a
dense meshwork of reciprocal connectivity between the cortex and
the thalamus as well as among different cortical areas. The diagram
cannot even begin to indicate the numbers and density of the re-
ciprocal connections seen in the real brain. These reciprocal
connections, as they carry action potentials and modify
synaptic strengths, integrate and synchronize the
different activities of various specific brain areas.
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 29
A net effect of this reentrant traffic is the time-locked or
synchronized firing of neuronal groups in particular circuits.
This provides the coordination in time and space that would
otherwise have to be assured by some form of computation.
To help imagine how reentry works, consider a hypothetical
string quartet made up of willful musicians. Each plays his or
her own tune with different rhythm. Now connect the bodies
of all the players with very fine threads (many of them to all
body parts). As each player moves, he or she will unconsciously
send waves of movement to the others. In a short time, the
rhythm and to some extent the melodies will become more
coherent. The dynamics will continue, leading to new coher-
ent output. Something like this also occurs in jazz improvisa-
tion, of course without the threads!
The theory of neuronal group selection (TNGS) or Neural
Darwinism needs one more provision to answer the question
about adaptive responses: for successful adaptation, some bias
must regulate the outcome of developmental and experiential
selection coordinated by reentry. It turns out that, in each spe-
cies, this bias is inherited in the form of value systems present
in the brain as a result of natural selection. Each of these value
systems releases a type of neurotransmitter or neuromodula-
tor under particular circumstances. One example is the so-
called locus coeruleus, a small collection of neurons on each
side of the brain stem. These neurons send their axons into the
brain and spinal cord (distributed somewhat like a hairnet for
Selectionism
30
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 30
the brain). On receipt of salient startle signals, say a loud noise,
these neurons release a neurotransmitter called noradrenaline
into the surrounding space, as if from a leaky garden hose. The
result can lower the threshold of synaptic responses of multiple
neurons, leading to more firing as well as to changes in the
synaptic strengths among these neurons.
Similarly, there is a value system that releases the neuro-
transmitter dopamine. This system is found in the basal gan-
glia and the brain stem (see figure 1).5
The release of dopamine
acts as a reward system, facilitating learning. Other systems
release different neurotransmitters: those releasing serotonin
can govern mood, and those releasing acetylcholine can alter
thresholds in waking and sleeping. The combination of value
system activity, along with the selectional synaptic changes in
specific networks of neuronal groups, governs behavior. Se-
lection within these networks determines the categories of an
individual animal’s behavior; value systems provide the biases
and rewards.
We now see that brains have a generator of diversity (GOD),
encounter signals from an unknown world through their reper-
toires of neuronal groups, and facilitate differential amplifica-
tion of the connections of those groups of neurons that are
adaptive. We conclude that our brains are clear-cut examples
of selectional systems. Notice that, given the tenets of Neural
Darwinism, each brain is necessarily unique in its anatomical
structure and its dynamics. Even the brains of twins will differ.
Selectionism
31
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 31
I won’t discuss the evidence supporting Neural Darwin-
ism.6
Instead I will simply state that many experiments have
revealed the variance in developmental selection, the impor-
tance of synaptic strength changes in learning and memory,
and the contribution of reentry to coordination of the activity
of brain regions through synchronization of their circuits.
In the view of Neural Darwinism, multiple functionally
segregated brain areas such as the cortical regions devoted to
vision are bound in their responses by reentry. Cortical area V1
is dedicated to the orientation of a stimulus, area V4 to its color,
and area V5 to its motion. These and a score of other areas have
no supervisor. Instead, they are reentrantly interconnected by
reciprocal fibers (see figure 2). Combinations of responses among
these areas give rise to a unified percept, for example, of a
tilted, red, cylindrical moving object. This percept arises from
the activity of synchronously firing circuits that bind the re-
sponses of the various segregated regions together.
According to the theory, memory of such an event is a dy-
namic system property in which synaptic strengthening and
weakening enhances the reengagement of some of the original
circuits. But now there is no signal from the original object. In-
stead there is stimulation, within the brain of a subject, of re-
entrant circuits to yield an image or thought of the object upon
memory recall. In this case, the image is brought up by means
of the brain speaking to itself. Memory, which is recategoriza-
Selectionism
32
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 32
tion influenced by value systems, trades off ultimate precision
for associative power.
One final concept is necessary to account for such asso-
ciative recall: brain circuits under selection must be degener-
ate. Degeneracy refers to situations in which different structures
can yield the same output or consequence.7
A good example is
the genetic code; each triplet of bases in DNA specifies a par-
ticular one of the twenty amino acids that go to make up pro-
teins. Since there are four chemically different bases, there are
sixty-four possible triplets. However, since there are only twenty
different amino acids, the code must be degenerate. Any of the
four bases (G, C, A, or T) may occupy the third position in
each triplet, in many cases without changing the amino acid
specified. There are on average about three (sixty-four divided
by twenty) ways to code any one amino acid. So if a string of
three hundred bases specifies a sequence of one hundred dif-
ferent amino acids making up a protein, any of roughly three
to the power of one hundred different base sequences can
specify the same protein sequence. The code is degenerate.
Degeneracy is seen at many levels of biological organiza-
tion, ranging from properties of cells up to those of language.
It is an essential property of selectional systems, which would
be likely to fail without it. So we may expect that, in percep-
tion and memory, many different circuits of neuronal groups
could and do give a similar output. If one circuit fails to func-
Selectionism
33
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 33
tion, another is likely to work. The significance of this obser-
vation goes beyond the “fail-safe” properties of degenerate cir-
cuits. Degeneracy in brain circuits leads almost inevitably to
association, a key property required for memory and learning.
This associative property occurs because of the overlap of dif-
ferent degenerate circuits leading to a similar output. If input
signals change, the existence of that overlap can also result in
association with different circuits having different outputs.
A selectional theory such as Neural Darwinism necessar-
ily posits enormously diverse repertoires of neuronal groups.
It explains how combinations of such groups can be bound
into integrated wholes depending on diverse inputs from the
body, the world, and the brain itself. As we shall see, these are
just the properties needed to account for the enormously rich
yet unitary properties of the conscious state.
Selectionism
34
03edelmanCh03.023_034 7/22/06 1:55 PM Page 34
four
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
Consciousness reigns but doesn’t govern.
— PAUL VALÉRY
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 35
WE MAY NOW PROVIDE A PLAUSIBLE account of how consciousness
arose in evolution and appeared during individual develop-
ment in certain species. The evidence suggests that conscious-
ness is entailed by reentrant activity among cortical areas and
the thalamus and by the cortex interacting with itself and with
subcortical structures. The theory proposes that primary con-
sciousness appeared at a time in evolution when the thala-
mocortical system was greatly enlarged, accompanied by an
increase in the number of specific thalamic nuclei and by en-
largement of the cerebral cortex.1
A starting point for these
evolutionary events was probably the transitions from reptiles
to birds and separately to mammals about a quarter of a billion
years ago.
An animal that evolved with a degenerate reentrant set of
circuits linking many cortical regions together could make enor-
mous numbers of discriminations and distinctions. For ex-
ample, it could link numerous sensory signals together, make
many perceptual categorizations, and connect them in various
combinations to memory. In this view, primary consciousness
emerges from reentrant activity linking perceptual categori-
zation to value-category memory. The pattern of integrative
activity in this thalamocortical reentrant neuronal network,
called the dynamic core, would create a scene in the remem-
bered present of primary consciousness, a scene with which
the animal could lay plans. Clearly, inasmuch as it can make
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
36
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 36
these plans, such a conscious animal would have an adaptive
advantage over animals lacking similarly enhanced discrimi-
natory capabilities. The memory system in such a conscious
animal is influenced by value systems and by selected synap-
tic changes brought about by previous categorical experience.
This memory system is likely to be mediated by more anterior
cortical regions such as frontal and parietal cortex (see figure 1,
top), whereas ongoing perception is likely to be enabled by
more posterior cortical regions.
Consciousness is a process that consists of an enormous
variety of so-called qualia: the discriminations entailed by the
widely distributed and highly dynamic activity of the thalamo-
cortical core. In such activity, the brain speaks largely to itself.
I must stress that it is the interaction of the various systems in
the core that is critical. We must therefore be careful to avoid
assigning consciousness to a specific region.
The understanding that it is the selectional reentrant ac-
tivity of groups of neurons in the core that yields phenomenal
consciousness makes it unnecessary to invoke dualism. Even
though consciousness is a process without causal powers it-
self, it is faithfully entailed by the complex activities and causal
powers of the neuronal groups that make up the reentrant
core. Moreover, from very early developmental times, signals
from the body to the brain and from the brain to itself lay the
grounds for the emergence of a self. That self, like conscious-
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
37
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 37
ness, is also a process. It relies on conscious experience for ref-
erence to its own memories, and that conscious experience en-
hances communication with other individuals of its species.
Of course, in the case of primary consciousness, awareness
and conscious planning are limited to the remembered present.
An animal with primary consciousness lacks an explicit narra-
tive concept of the past, cannot extensively plan a scenario for
a distant future, and has no nameable social self.
For these traits to appear, another evolutionary event had
to occur, again involving reentrant connections. At some time
in high primate evolution, a new set of reciprocal pathways
was developed, making reentrant connections between con-
ceptual maps of the brain and those areas capable of symbolic
or semantic reference. We know that symbolic tokens can be
mastered by training chimpanzees, and thus chimpanzees with
some semantic capabilities may possess the glimmerings of
higher-order consciousness. But higher-order consciousness
had to await its full flowering during human evolution when
true language appeared. At that point, consciousness of con-
sciousness became possible. Reference could be made to a lexi-
con, the tokens of which could be linked through syntax. Rich
concepts of the past, of the future, and of a social self emerged.
Consciousness was no longer limited to the remembered pres-
ent. Consciousness of consciousness became possible.
According to Neural Darwinism, reentry in the enormously
complex dynamic core distributed to the thalamus and across
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
38
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 38
the cortex was the key integrative event that led to the emer-
gence of conscious experience. That experience reflected the
enormous powers of discrimination made possible by differ-
ent complex core states. These states necessarily involve inte-
gration of multiple aspects of a unitary scene. New core states
and unitary scenes differentiate in time and develop as a result
of myriad signals from the brain itself, the body, and the world.
In considering this picture, we must not forget that much
of behavior is determined by nonconscious interactions among
subcortical parts of the brain and the cerebral cortex. Many of
these nonconscious responses underlying habits and learned
behavior had to be established previously, however, by con-
scious distinctions mediated by the core. Interactions among
core systems, nonconscious memory systems, and signals from
value systems operate together to account for the richness of
human behavior.
A brief summary of the discussion so far may serve to focus
the view of consciousness I am taking here. Conscious states are
unitary but change serially over time. They have wide-ranging
contents and access. Their range is modulated by attention and,
although in large measure they show intentionality—they are
about objects or events—they do not exhaust the domains to
which they refer. Above all, they entail subjective feelings or
qualia. My thesis is that the evolution of a reentrant thalamo-
cortical system capable of giving rise to the dynamic core al-
lowed the integration of vastly increased complexes of sen-
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
39
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 39
sorimotor inputs. Animals having such a core were therefore
capable of refined discriminations. Qualia are just those discrimi-
nations, each entailed by a different core state. In brief, con-
scious states reflect the integration of neural states in the core.2
With this picture in mind, we can clear up a number of
logical errors or semantic inconsistencies that have plagued
studies of consciousness. One such error is the failure to dis-
tinguish physical causation from logical entailment.3
Proposals
that the action of the thalamocortical core causes conscious-
ness confront a difficulty. Since causes precede effects, these
proposals imply the existence of a temporal lag between in-
commensurable processes. Instead, neural action in the core
entails consciousness, just as the spectrum of the hemoglobin
in your blood is entailed by the quantum mechanical structure
of that molecule.
Another set of errors is related to this issue of causality.
Philosophers have put forth the notion of a zombie, a creature
lacking all consciousness but able to behave in all respects as if
it were conscious. Possibly, this misguided idea originated from
observing the behavior of humans with so-called psycho-
motor seizures, who can carry out complex acts without con-
scious awareness. But such act sequences were first learned
consciously. In the midst of such a seizure, a person cannot learn
a new task, a task that, like most, requires consciousness for its
acquisition. The failure of logic involved in positing a zombie
may be revealed by positing a “hemoglobin zombie.” Imagine
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
40
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 40
a zombie with all your bodily structures and functions but
with blood cells carrying hemoglobin that is white instead of
red and yet, even though white, binds oxygen identically to
yours. Not likely!
An additional set of confusions may arise because of the
reification as things, of properties and processes. Conscious-
ness is not a thing, it is a process. The question “Do qualia
exist?” carries the burden of a similar error. A further error is
contained in the assertion that sensory categories such as color
and various other perceptions exist in the world, independent
of mind and language.
Speaking of mind, one often hears of the assumption that
a dynamic, self-organizing system like the brain must possess
some constant component, or essence, or contrariwise, some
sharp temporal or spatial boundaries in order to answer the
question “Am I the same self as I was before?” Continuity
does not imply essence, nor is it necessary that a system be
constant to maintain a resemblance to previous states.
It has often been maintained that, if a structure or prop-
erty exists, it must “have” a function. This is not necessarily
true. What, for example, is the “function” of dreams? Sigmund
Freud made an extensive argument for the function of wish
fulfillment.4
But it may simply be that dreams are entailed as a
particular state of consciousness when there is blockade of
both input and output in the thalamocortical system during
rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, a sleep period rich in dreams.
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
41
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 41
Perhaps the most flagrant breach of logic is the claim that,
to explain a phenomenon, one must necessarily replicate it. If
you insist on this absolutely, you can never explain conscious-
ness, history, flying, or hurricanes. There are certain processes,
however, that must be experienced subjectively before they
can be explained. Consciousness is one of them; it is necessar-
ily private because it is entailed by the reentrant core activity
in the individual brain.
With some of the underbrush cleared away, we can now
explore certain features of brain activity that affect how we
obtain knowledge with the goal of providing grounds for a
brain-based epistemology. To do so will require us briefly to
explore various approaches to how knowledge is obtained and
assessed.
From Brain Activity to Consciousness
42
04edelmanCh04.035_042 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 42
five
Epistemology and Its Discontents
Doubt everything or believe everything: these are two
equally convenient strategies. With either we dispense
with the need for reflection.
— HENRI POINCARÉ
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 43
E P I S T E M O L O G Y I S T H E B R A N C H of philosophy concerned with
the nature, scope, and origins of knowledge. In brief, it is the
theory of knowledge. As such, it has occupied a central role in
the development of philosophical thought. But any foray into
its branches will reveal a very broad spread of opinion about
the validity of ideas in the field and even severe doubts as to
the usefulness of their pursuit within philosophy itself. A quick
look into epistemological compendia will reveal how the term
itself has been subject to modifiers—“feminist epistemology,”
“virtue epistemology,” “traditional epistemology,” “naturalized
epistemology,” and even the “death of epistemology.”1
I have no intention of plumbing the depths of this con-
tentious field. But inasmuch as my aim in this book is to con-
nect brain science with human knowledge, I have to do some
more brush clearing. It will turn out that, looked at from a sci-
entific standpoint, the theory of knowledge is far from com-
plete. To put the enterprise in perspective, I shall briefly review
some central issues, ending with issues related to brain-based
epistemology.
Traditional epistemology is concerned with knowledge as
justified true belief. Much of the philosophical debate about
this concern turns around the meaning of the terms “knowl-
edge,” “true,” and “belief.” In that respect, it can be considered
to be a language game as described by Ludwig Wittgenstein,
who had his doubts about the whole enterprise.2
The central
concern of traditional epistemologists goes back at least as far
Epistemology and Its Discontents
44
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 44
as Plato’s essentialist ideas.3
In modern times, it can be traced
to René Descartes’s notions of the solitary thinker searching
for beliefs that cannot be doubted. His central notion “cogito
ergo sum” was of course the origin of dualism, a metaphysical
position that most modern scientists reject.4
He was centrally
concerned with the removal of doubt, with establishing a se-
cure foundation of knowledge. The foundationalist position
stemming from the Cartesian view is to some extent the start-
ing point for concerns of traditional epistemologists with the
formal nature of mental operations. Their position is also con-
cerned with the normative aspects of the subject as so con-
strued: How can we justify or validate true belief?
The entire position of traditional epistemology turns
around arguments related to the thinking subject and the sepa-
rate world that subject must confront. It is no surprise, then,
that debates have occurred among rationalists who emphasize
innate mental operations, empiricists who claim that knowl-
edge is achieved mainly from sense data upon interaction with
the world, and Kantians who approach the issue by connect-
ing a priori with a posteriori ideas.
Claiming that none of these views reflects the interaction
of humans with the world in which they act, a number of
thinkers have rejected the entire enterprise. These views may
be seen in the essays of Richard Rorty and Charles Taylor,
both of whom can reasonably be classified as belonging to the
“death of epistemology” school.5
A central claim of these pro-
Epistemology and Its Discontents
45
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 45
ponents is that we are not detached observers of the world,
operating through “representations” in our mind. Instead, we
are agents embedded in the world, gaining our knowledge
through action in the world. Moreover, our brains are embod-
ied and that embodiment is essential to any construal of how
those brains work to obtain knowledge.
I will not elaborate further on traditional epistemology or
the thoughts of its detractors. Their efforts are armchair opera-
tions, whatever the correctness of some of their views. In-
stead, it may be more fruitful to consider efforts to relate epis-
temology to the scientific enterprise, to naturalize it.
As I have already discussed, a key example is provided by
Quine’s proposal to naturalize epistemology. His original pro-
posal was that epistemology is concerned with the foundations
of science. Aware of the failure of foundationalism, he pro-
posed that we consider the psychological processes that lead to
beliefs about the world. Quine suggests that the relation to the
physical domain should include physics as well as the sensory
receptors of the human subject. He suggests that this allows us
to maintain the “extensional purity” of physics. The subject re-
ceives “controlled input—certain patterns of radiation . . . and
delivers as output a description of the three-dimensional ex-
ternal world and its history. The relation between the meager
input and the torrential output is a relation we are prompted
to study . . . in order to see how evidence relates to theory.”6
Epistemology and Its Discontents
46
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 46
Effectively, this proposal casts epistemological issues in
causal terms. But in limiting the field of interest to the world,
the skin, and various sensory sheets, the proposal avoids explicit
consideration of transformations that occur within the human
subject: consciousness, intentionality, memory—all subjects that
I have discussed in previous chapters. I will consider later how
this breach can be repaired. At this point, it is illuminating to
take up another effort to “psychologize” epistemology—that
of Jean Piaget.
Piaget, at a time before Quine’s proposal, addressed him-
self to what he called “genetic epistemology.”7
By this, he meant
the attempt to explain knowledge “and in particular scientific
knowledge on the basis of its history, its sociogenesis, and es-
pecially the psychological origins of the notions and opera-
tions upon which it is based.” Unlike Quine, Piaget actually
conducted a program of empirical research, one mainly focused
on child development. He proposed that there were patterns
of physical and mental events (cognitive structures) underlying
intelligence, which appeared at particular stages of develop-
ment. According to Piaget, there are four stages: the sensori-
motor (zero–two years), the preoperational (three–seven years),
the concrete operational (eight–eleven years), and the stage of
formal operations (twelve–fifteen years). In the sensorimotor
stage, one sees intelligence in the form of motor actions; in the
preoperational stage, one sees the onset of intuition; in the
Epistemology and Its Discontents
47
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 47
concrete stage, there is logic but only in terms of concrete ref-
erents; and in the formal operational stage, one sees the emer-
gence of abstractions.
Piaget stressed several processes of adaptation: assimilation—
the interpretation of events in terms of existing cognitive
structures—and accommodation—the alteration of cognitive
structures to relate to the environment. In a series of ingenious
experiments and observations on children over half a century
of effort, Piaget sought to show how knowledge is built up.
He challenged the position of traditional epistemology as too
static, as neglecting the development of knowledge. He also criti-
cized the emphasis of traditionalists on validity and justifica-
tion that rested on the views of an isolated observer. Instead, he
claimed that by following the development of the sciences, we
can discover the values and norms that regulate those sciences
and the knowledge derived from them.
There is little doubt that Piaget was a great pioneer. There
are, however, a number of difficulties in his proposals. The first
is related to his notion of the strict sequence of stages. Child
psychologists have broadly verified many of Piaget’s observa-
tions but have challenged his somewhat rigid and speculative
framework. Indeed, the term “genetic epistemology” is poten-
tially confusing; his studies might more aptly be described as
ontogenetic epistemology.
Regardless of terminology, there is a major weakness in
the underpinnings of Piaget’s biology.8
For a good part of
Epistemology and Its Discontents
48
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 48
his long career, he tended (like Freud) to rely on the discred-
ited biogenetic law of Ernst Heinrich Haeckel: ontogeny reca-
pitulates phylogeny. Of more concern is his rejection of neo-
Darwinism, which, in some degree, may have been related to
his belief in recapitulation. In addition, Piaget insisted on a du-
bious connection between the sequences in the psychogenesis
of the developing human individual and the historical emer-
gence of scientific ideas. It was overreacting to suggest that the
historical development of Western science recapitulates the
stages of individual human development. Despite these idio-
syncratic proposals and his tendency to overreach, Piaget’s
empirical efforts had an immense influence on our notions of
mental development.
Among the more recent attempts to base a naturalized epis-
temology on psychology, we may note the work of Michael A.
Bishop and J. D. Trout.9
These authors have put forth perhaps
the most extensive (indeed, scathing) critique of what they call
standard analytic epistemology (what I have called traditional
epistemology). In its place, they propose a program to promote
excellence in reasoning. Pointing out the fragility of the reason-
ing process in many sectors, they propose a program of prag-
matic, reason-guiding prescriptions to help us to reason better
than any alternative program, say of traditional epistemology.
To identify successful reasoning strategies, they suggest an epis-
temological theory called Strategic Reliabilism. This consists
of assessing robustly reliable rules, calculating the costs and
Epistemology and Its Discontents
49
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 49
benefits of a given strategy, and applying judgments about the
significance of a problem—the weight of objective reasons for
devoting resources to that problem.
This program replaces the notion of justification in tradi-
tional epistemology with pragmatic, rule-based tests of practi-
cal success in reasoning. As such, it is normative—if a given
psychologically based reasoning strategy yields superior out-
comes, it should be adopted. Note that this prescriptive sug-
gestion is based on scientific assessment of real-world outcomes.
The normative aspect of this set of proposals should not be
conflated with an illicit crossing of the is-ought divide. I have
eschewed that crossing for ethics and aesthetics for, in those
cases, scientifically based criteria and data are largely lacking.
The norms of Strategic Reliabilism are supposed to be adopted
only if appropriate reasoning results in assessable outcomes.
The psychologically based enterprise I have briefly sum-
marized here is an exercise in empirically based and natural-
ized epistemology. It shows much promise, but it does not
undertake to consider the neural constraints on behavior that
we are concerned with here. It is worth pointing out that the
two approaches complement each other: we would like to
base epistemology on scientifically certifiable outcomes, but
we would also like to assess the relevance or irrelevance of the
neural underpinnings of those outcomes.
At this point, a brief mention of two other scientifically
based fields may be in order. The first, named evolutionary
Epistemology and Its Discontents
50
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 50
epistemology by Donald Campbell, has two main branches.10
The first is concerned with how Darwinian selection con-
strains the means of knowledge acquisition in a given species.
This branch of study overlaps the work of anthropologists and
efforts to complete Darwin’s program. The second, more du-
bious branch of evolutionary epistemology is concerned with
the wholesale application of selectionist thinking to knowl-
edge itself. An often cited early example is Karl Popper’s no-
tion that scientific thought is grounded largely on a series of
conjectures subject to selection by attempts at refutation. An-
other example is Richard Dawkins’s proposal that ideas are
propagated as “memes” that, like genes, can replicate, be in-
herited, or be selected against.11
This last notion has emerged in the field called evolution-
ary psychology. Evolutionary psychology is a somewhat more
cautious application of E. O. Wilson’s sociobiology to patterns
of behavior.12 Wilson’s original sociobiological proposal to ex-
plain behaviors such as altruism as a result of gene action was
sharply criticized.13 Nonetheless, evolutionary psychology con-
tinued to put an emphasis on genes as the prime units of se-
lection (“selfish genes” in Dawkins’s designation) in order to
explain behavior, particularly social behavior.
In both evolutionary epistemology and evolutionary psy-
chology, a kind of panselectionism is used to explain knowl-
edge and behavior. In sporadic cases the concepts of these
fields have some value. But both are attempts to reduce behav-
Epistemology and Its Discontents
51
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 51
ior and knowledge to one overarching paradigm. This runs the
risk of generating just-so stories that are difficult to verify:
logic and propositional analyses are not simply products of
evolution and certainly not of selection in present-day indi-
viduals or populations. Moreover, genes are not, in general,
the units of selection during evolution—individuals are. If Pi-
aget overstepped his bounds in rejecting Darwinian evolution,
practitioners in these two fields have overapplied selectionism
in their efforts to explain complex entities. Nonetheless, at the
level of brain function, selectionism remains a valued approach,
one that provides the ground for constructing a brain-based
epistemology.
Epistemology and Its Discontents
52
05edelmanCh05.043_052 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 52
six
A Brain-Based Approach
Your theory is crazy but it is not
crazy enough to be true.
— NIELS BOHR
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 53
W E C A N N O W A S K T H I S question: Can we develop a brain-
based epistemology that can begin to deal with the issues
raised in the previous chapter? As I have stressed, such an ef-
fort must go beyond Quine and deal with the physical bases
of mentation and consciousness. It must also be broadly con-
sistent with the developmental emergences first studied by Pi-
aget. As I have attempted to show in previous chapters, the ex-
tended theory of neuronal group selection and the analysis of
the neural bases of conscious experience are attempts to fulfill
these requirements. Here I want to consider further the rela-
tion of these matters to the strengths and limitations of a
brain-based epistemology.
Quine and Piaget both regarded epistemology as a branch
of psychology, not neuroscience. We may ask whether the
deficiencies of their proposals may be repaired by our under-
standing of how the brain works. What can a brain-based epis-
temology contribute to the picture of how we acquire knowl-
edge? Such an epistemology must be based on evolution—that
is, natural selection. This is fundamental, but it must not be
mistaken for the assumptions underlying the field of evolu-
tionary epistemology that I mentioned above. It simply refers
to the fact that all of the brain mechanisms we have discussed
arose during the evolution of Homo sapiens. This may seem
trivially obvious, but it has some profound implications. One
is that the brain, as a fundamental structure for elaboration
of knowledge, was not designed for knowledge. Evolution is
A Brain-Based Approach
54
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 54
powerful and opportunistic, but it is neither intelligent nor
instructionistic.
We can agree with the critics of traditional epistemology
that there is no detached Cartesian observer. Instead, the evo-
lutionary assumption just made necessarily requires that the
brain and body are embedded in the environment (or econiche).
And, as we shall see, once language emerged in human evolu-
tion, our knowledge and its development, as well as our evo-
lutionary path, depended on culture. As Peter J. Richerson and
Robert Boyd point out, culture is not equatable directly to the
environment or econiche. I shall return later to this issue.1
I have already suggested that the human brain is a selec-
tional system, not an instructional one. The brain of Homo sapi-
ens evolved to its present size very rapidly, increasing by a fac-
tor of three in size from Australopithicus some three and a half
million years ago to present-day humans. The largest contri-
bution to this increase was made by the growth of the pre-
frontal cortex, the part of the brain that is essential for judg-
ment and planning. The evolution of reentrant connectivity
provided vertebrate, mammalian, and finally human brains with
the most important organizing principle for the acquisition of
knowledge. Inasmuch as a large portion of brain development is
stochastic and epigenetic—that is, is strongly influenced by
the fact that neurons that fire together wire together—no two
brains, even those of twins, are identical. Thus, in analyzing
the structure and function of the human brain, detailed history
A Brain-Based Approach
55
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 55
must be taken into account, first during evolution and then
during individual brain development.
The epigenetic and historical changes in the formation of
brain maps are strongly affected by the signals from the body
and the environment. This is true during fetal development as
well as in development after birth. For example, the propriocep-
tive system of a late human fetus will distinguish self-generated
movements from those imposed from outside. After birth and
during infant growth, enormous selectional changes will occur
in the synaptic populations of the central nervous system.
These changes reach high points in the critical periods of de-
velopment. In such periods, we find, for example, changes in
the first few years when signals from the two eyes lead to ocu-
lar dominance columns, structures responding to input from ei-
ther the left or right eye, thus allowing stereoscopic vision. Later
on, as adolescence approaches, the ability to learn multiple
languages, previously facile, appears to diminish. Both of these
changes are accompanied by vast alterations in the distribu-
tions and strengths of synaptic connections. Indeed, even after
the major outlines of adult neuroanatomy are established, the
borders of cortical maps can change dynamically, depending
on the input from the body and the environment. The so-
matosensory maps of the cerebral cortex mediating touch are
a classic example. Increased input from the receptors of speci-
fic fingers will not only result in expansion of the cortical so-
matosensory areas responding to input from these fingers but
A Brain-Based Approach
56
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 56
also cause boundaries to shift for the whole hand.2 Thus, for
example, the cortical maps responding to the left-hand inputs
of violinists are greatly expanded.
This dynamic yet historical view of brain development is
in accord with the theory of neuronal group selection. I have
reviewed it briefly here to emphasize the plastic nature of brain
development, which may be considered never to stop until we
die. Not only is the fine structure of each brain unique, but the
principles of Neural Darwinism lead directly to the notion of
degeneracy: different brain structures can carry out the same
function or lead to the same output.
What do these observations imply for epistemological con-
cerns? First, the historical, epigenetic, and degenerate features
of the vastly complex human brain depend on bodily and en-
vironmental inputs and, above all, on action. In the original
formulation of the theory of neuronal group selection, it was
pointed out that perceptual categorization itself depended on
so-called global mappings. These are complex structures com-
posed of both sensory and motor inputs and outputs. The the-
ory states that sensory and motor systems are both necessary
to develop perceptual categories.
Second, the notion of reentry as essential for brain devel-
opment and function puts the emphasis not just on action but
also on interaction of brain areas. In a selectional brain, mem-
ory, imaging, and thought itself all depend on the brain “speak-
ing to itself” by reentry.
A Brain-Based Approach
57
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 57
Third, by applying the principles of Neural Darwinism,
we may resolve the mystification surrounding consciousness
and thus extend the ground of naturalized epistemology. Con-
sciousness appeared in vertebrate evolution when reentrant
connections in the thalamocortical system arose to link ante-
rior memory systems dealing with value to the more posterior
cortical systems devoted to perception. The result was an enor-
mous increase in discriminatory power resulting from myriad
integrations among the reentrant circuits comprising this dy-
namic core. Qualia, entailed by these neuronal interactions, are
those various discriminations. Animals equipped with such
dynamic discriminatory brain structures had an obvious ad-
vantage, particularly for the planning of adaptive responses in
food gathering, mating, and defense.
Fourth, being selectional systems, brains operate prima
facie not by logic but rather by pattern recognition. This pro-
cess is not precise, as is logic and mathematics. Instead, it
trades off specificity and precision, if necessary, to increase its
range. It is likely, for example, that early human thought pro-
ceeded by metaphor, which, even with the late acquisition of
precise means such as logic and mathematical thought, con-
tinues to be a major source of imagination and creativity in
adult life.3
The metaphorical capacity of linking disparate en-
tities derives from the associative properties of a reentrant
degenerate system. Metaphors have remarkably rich allusive
power but, unlike certain other tropes such as simile, can nei-
A Brain-Based Approach
58
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 58
ther be proved nor disproved. They are, nonetheless, a power-
ful starting point for thoughts that must be refined by other
means such as logic. Their properties are certainly consistent
with the operation of a pattern-forming selectional brain.
Not only is each such brain unique, but the sensory input
from the environment and the motor output of the animal is
never identical on separate occasions. This excludes a strict
machine model of the brain and mind. It requires that mem-
ory be a dynamic, recategorical system property, not a fixed
storage of all the variants of a scene, say of a familiar room vis-
ited on multiple occasions.
One more essential issue stems from the fact that selec-
tional brains necessarily must operate under constraints im-
posed by value systems. These are evolutionarily inherited
structures in the brain that establish salience, punishment, and
reward. As we have already discussed, value systems consist
largely of diffuse ascending neural networks that modulate
synaptic responses by releasing specific neuromodulators or
transmitters in a broadside fashion. One example is the sys-
tem in the basal ganglia and the brain stem that releases dopa-
mine. Release of dopamine during training is critical to the an-
ticipation of rewarding acts.
Although value systems of this kind are essential, they
only constrain actions and perceptual categorization. Value is
not category; categorization must be achieved through each
individual’s behavior. The connection of these notions to is-
A Brain-Based Approach
59
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 59
sues of emotion and its effect on knowledge is more or less
direct. Traditional epistemology rarely if ever concerns itself
directly with issues such as emotion, except perhaps obliquely
in dealing with normative aspects of justification. In contrast,
in brain-based epistemology the mechanism proposed for con-
sciousness by the theory of neuronal group selection is uni-
versal: it applies to all discriminatory responses whether they
involve perception, imagery, memory, feeling and emotion, or
even mathematical calculation. In many cases, these processes
interact. Brain action cannot be considered, at least at its out-
set, as a detached process of machinelike calculation in the ab-
sence of emotion.
If this picture of principles underlying brain-based episte-
mology is correct, then early formulations of thought are by
nature associatively rich but relatively imprecise. How then
do we come to form more precise concepts necessary for sci-
entific pursuits? What about logic and mathematics, both of
which involve precision that is essential for enlarging our knowl-
edge and understanding?
Any attempt to answer these questions must confront the
issue of language. This is certainly the case for traditional epis-
temology, which deals largely in propositional or sentential
terms. It is also an unavoidable issue in considering the actual
development of knowledge and concepts during human his-
tory. I have already discussed the onset of higher-order con-
sciousness and its acceleration after the emergence of syntax
A Brain-Based Approach
60
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 60
and a lexicon. The capacity to develop concepts of the past
and future and to acquire a social self depends very strongly on
the acquisition of language.
We are the only species with a syntax-based language.
Many scholars have suggested that language is a biologically
evolved trait, and some have even proposed that we possess a
specific language-acquisition device that we inherit to allow
us to carry out and recognize syntactically correct statements.4
The theory of neuronal group selection rejects this view. It is
surely the case that certain brain regions as well as bodily struc-
tures such as the vocal cords and the space above the vocal
cords evolved to enhance production and recognition of vocal
sounds. It is also evident that the portions of the brain known
as the basal ganglia were already able to help the cortex regu-
late and recognize sequences of motor acts. The interaction of
basal ganglia with the motor, sensory, and prefrontal areas of
the cortex may have led to a generalized capability of detect-
ing sensorimotor sequences, a kind of “basal syntax.” Were
that the case, a syntax-based true language may have arisen as
an invention based on these already evolved capabilities.
Whatever the case, the possession of language, with its
enabling effects on cultural transmission, obviously led to an
enormous expansion of conceptual power. Although the lin-
guistic expansion and associative powers of metaphor can lead
to poetry and imagination, language also makes possible the
development of logic. Logic may have its origins in brain events
A Brain-Based Approach
61
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 61
related to the persistence and disappearance of objects, to the
development of operant conditioning, and to the learned con-
sequences of motor acts. In sentential terms, it also allows
naturalized epistemologists like Quine to define truth by logi-
cian Alfred Tarski’s notion of disquotation: “Snow is white” is
true if and only if snow is white.5
When logic is developed in
its most refined form, it is most general: the true inferences
from sentences characteristic of first-order predicate logic are
independent of lexical substitution.
The case of mathematics and its relation to language is
even more challenging than that of logic. Is language necessary
for arithmetic to be developed? The position that it is neces-
sary is known as the strong Whorfian view, after the linguist
Benjamin Whorf.6
There is empirical evidence that preverbal
infants and nonhuman primates have the ability to deal pre-
cisely with sets containing from one to four members. More-
over, studies of the indigenous Munduruku people in Brazil
have revealed that their language lacks words for numbers be-
yond five. Although these Indians fail in counting and precise
arithmetic beyond the number five, they can compare and
“add” large collections of objects. These findings appear to ex-
clude the strong Whorfian hypothesis, for this ability to carry
out numerical approximation occurs in the absence of linguis-
tic tokens. It has been suggested that this capability may require
the activity in humans of neurons in the parietal cortex, speci-
fically those in the intraparietal sulci (shallow fissures separat-
A Brain-Based Approach
62
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 62
ing folds of the parietal cortex). Although this proposal has
been challenged, neurons tuned to numerical quantity have
been found in the prefrontal and parietal cortices of macaque
monkeys.
The results suggest that although language is perhaps not
essential for the beginnings of arithmetic, it plays a role in the
further emergence of exact counting and arithmetic during
child development. Although the Munduruku do not carry out
counting, Western children at around age three suddenly ap-
preciate that each counting word refers to a precise quantity.7
Thus, one might opt for a “weak” Whorfian hypothesis, al-
though this, too, has been challenged and further analysis will
be necessary. The great German mathematician Leopold Kro-
necker once said, “The natural numbers are the only numbers
that assuredly exist. They are given to us by the Almighty.
Everything else is the work of man.”8
Perhaps, given what we
are beginning to understand, the initial gift was limited to the
numbers three or four.
Does a picture emerge from our brief review of various
approaches to the theory of knowledge? What we have seen
so far is that thought precedes language. But once language
sets in, an explosion of possible thoughts occurs, and there is
a temptation to equate thoughts and beliefs, and even some-
times knowledge, to propositions and propositions alone. Tra-
ditional epistemology has yielded to that temptation. In its
search to validate true belief, it indulges in a language game. Its
A Brain-Based Approach
63
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 63
goal is lofty and ambitious, but is based on a narrow set of
assumptions about the means by which we think and interact
in the world. Its models, which are based either on Cartesian
foundationalism (implying a dissociated receiver of instruc-
tion or information) or alternatively on a Kantian mixture of a
priori and a posteriori ideas, do not seem to correspond to the
facts. In proceeding without reference to scientific knowledge
and experiment, traditional epistemology ignores how knowl-
edge actually develops.
Quine’s suggestion to naturalize epistemology addresses
this issue. By limiting its extent to surface receptors and physics,
however, it excludes the direct consideration of intentionality—
the notion that consciousness is generally about objects, even
inexistent ones. But intentionality is a critical aspect of how
we acquire knowledge. The analysis of consciousness by the
extended theory of neuronal group selection proposes expand-
ing the naturalized view to account not only for intentionality
but for the relation between physical causation and conscious
experience. By considering value systems that have evolved to
constrain selectional systems such as the brain, this theory can
also relate emotional experience to knowledge.
If a brain-based epistemology seems a sound way to pro-
ceed, what does it recognize and how much can it claim? Brain-
based epistemology takes account of the heterogeneous sources
of knowledge. It recognizes the primacy of natural selection
but does not attempt to explain behavior solely in evolution-
A Brain-Based Approach
64
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 64
ary terms. Instead, it emphasizes the epigenetic origins of brain
structure and dynamics. In this view, brain development de-
pends on action in the world and, as a consequence, each brain
is unique. Pattern recognition by the brain precedes logic, and
early thought is creative in its pattern making through processes
akin to metaphor. These processes are not free of feeling. In-
deed, the constraints of value systems essential to the evolu-
tion of adaptive behavior make emotional experience a neces-
sary accompaniment to the acquisition of knowledge even after
logic and formal analysis supervene at later stages.
This position helps us to understand the origin of percep-
tual categorization, of concepts, and of thoughts based on in-
teractions between the brain, the body, and the world. It gives
a deeper understanding of such processes as imagery and mem-
ory, which are essential to the acquisition of knowledge. Fi-
nally, by providing a testable model of consciousness, it clari-
fies the relationship between physics and conscious thought.
In ranging beyond the narrow bounds of traditional epis-
temology, brain-based epistemology must take account of in-
sights provided by an analysis of illusions, confabulations, and
neuropsychological disorders, all of which lead to distortions
of knowledge. Advances in neuroscience promise to shed some
light on these areas, which are considered in later chapters.
As powerful as brain science is, however, it is subject to
limits. Its detailed exploration of how the brain works remains
at an early stage. Furthermore, our understanding of how lan-
A Brain-Based Approach
65
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 65
guage is enabled by the brain is in its infancy. Language, ar-
guably the most powerful vehicle for the elaboration of
knowledge, both enhances and complicates matters. I hazard
a surmise: even if we could accurately record and analyze the
activity of millions of brain neurons as an individual formu-
lates a sentence, we could not precisely specify the contents of
that sentence by reference to neural recording alone. The idea
that we might develop a “cerebroscope” capable of doing so is
confuted by the complexity, degeneracy, and unique historical
causal path of each brain. Nonetheless, through neuroscientific
research, we will certainly be able to develop important gen-
eralizations about how we acquire knowledge.9
There is another limit to the straightforward application
of brain-based epistemology, one that relates to normative is-
sues in various cultures. We must avoid the naturalistic fallacy
and concede that “ought” does not derive from “is.”10
To na-
ture we add products of our second nature.11
A fully reductive
scientific explanation of that nature and its ethics and aesthet-
ics is not desirable, likely, or forthcoming. Cultural factors play
a large role in determining beliefs, desires, and intentions. As
Richerson and Boyd have pointed out, human evolution is ac-
companied by the coevolution of culture, which provides a
relatively rapid and powerful means of change affecting the
bases of knowledge, feeling, and behavior.12
Last, we must recognize that there are different kinds of
truth. Science is concerned with verifiable truth. Mathematical
A Brain-Based Approach
66
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 66
truth rests on formal proof and tautology. Quine defines logi-
cal truth as a sentence set from which we get only truth when
we substitute other sentences for its simple sentences. Histori-
cal truths are harder to establish, depending as they do on
unique events in complex situations. The tests of such truths
are multiple, but as in the case for science, they may be vali-
dated (if that is at all possible) by predictions or, as T. H. Hux-
ley pointed out, by a process of “retrospective prophecy”—the
analysis of clues similar to that made famous by the inferen-
tial feats of Sherlock Holmes.13
So how does epistemology stand with all its discontents?
To consider it dead appears to me to be excessive. Yet, even if
we accept that empirical science offers it a sanctuary, we must
admit that our knowledge of knowledge has great gaps. Even
if we agree that a scientific basis for epistemology is a most
rewarding path, we must currently settle for a mixture of
approaches. This is a humbler and more lenient position than
the traditional one, but I suggest that it is more fruitful and
revisable.
With this as background, we may examine certain serious
splits that have occurred in the forms of human knowledge
and consider how they may be repaired.
A Brain-Based Approach
67
06edelmanCh06.053_067 7/22/06 1:56 PM Page 67
seven
Forms of Knowledge
T H E D I V O R C E B E T W E E N S C I E N C E
A N D T H E H U M A N I T I E S
Two things fill the mind with ever new and increasing
wonder and awe—the starry heavens above me
and the moral law within me.
— IMMANUEL KANT
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 68
O U R D I S C U S S I O N O F brain-based epistemology recognized
that there are various forms of truth and different criteria for
the validation of each form. In addition to the verifiable truth
reached through scientific investigation, there is logical and
mathematical truth, and there is truth as established in the
writing of history and in law courts. There have been many
philosophical approaches to deal with the forms of truth rang-
ing from notions of the synthetic a priori to deep analyses of
induction, deduction, and mathematical proof.
The position I have taken is that the naturalization of
epistemology must account not only for scientific truth but also
for the biological origins in human thought and consciousness
of the various other forms of truth. At this point, I want to deal
with a long-standing split or divorce between science and the
humanities (including the so-called human sciences). After
tracing some origins of this split, I will propose an approach to
resolving it that is consistent with a scientifically based brain
theory. But before tracing these origins, I must point out that
when I use the word “science” I refer specifically to Western
science dating from its origins in the seventeenth century. Of
course, scientific pursuits can be traced back to ancient Egypt,
ancient Greece, and even dark periods of the Middle Ages.1
But the split of which I speak arose in the germ with Galileo
and Descartes and was explicitly exposed by the philosophi-
cal historian Giambattista Vico in the early decades of the
eighteenth century.2
Forms of Knowledge
69
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 69
The historian Isaiah Berlin traces the divorce between the
sciences and the humanities to Vico. This relatively unknown
figure challenged the views of Descartes and denied that human
beings possessed an unalterable essence. Humans make their
own history and understand their own doings in a fashion dif-
ferent than that by which they understand external nature. Our
knowledge acquired “from inside,” our “second nature,” dif-
fers from that which we develop from observing the outside
world. Instead of the Enlightenment view—a single set of prin-
ciples applied to all knowledge—Vico applied these contrary
thoughts and mounted an attack on the total claims made for
the new scientific method. As Berlin indicates, a great debate
started “of which the end is not in sight.”3
Vico’s thoughts, which became known only much after
his death in 1744, challenged the idea that there was only one
set of methods for establishing the truth. From the time of
Descartes and Francis Bacon through to the present, one can
trace a line of thought that, contrary to Vico, holds up the ideal
of a unified system of sciences, natural and humane. Instead of
listing all the thinkers on this side (the well-known side reflect-
ing the Enlightenment ideal), I shall first emphasize the other
stream in the debate, the one that can be traced to Vico. Then
I shall contrast this view to the opposing views held by some
modern proponents of reductive or unified science.
A key figure is the German thinker and philosopher Wil-
helm Dilthey, who regarded the understanding of human be-
Forms of Knowledge
70
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 70
ings as an interpretive matter, one within which notions of
physical causation have no place.4
In his work before 1900 (he
died in 1911), Dilthey rejected the notion that humans were
essentially rational; instead they exercised willing, feeling, and
thinking in various combinations. He assigned the disciplines
of psychology, philosophy, and history as Geisteswissenschaften,
or the human sciences. These were to be distinguished from
Naturwissenschaften, or the natural sciences, which were con-
cerned with the physical world.
In a manner not far removed from Vico’s program, he as-
serted that descriptive psychology stood at the base of the
human sciences. Later, he revised this base to include human
history itself, particularly in its sociohistorical contexts. Essen-
tially, Dilthey’s positions rested on the notion of hermeneu-
tics, the study of interpretation and its conditions by insiders
within a historical culture.
Many modern philosophers have pursued one aspect or
another of this stream of the debate. There are, of course, other
tributaries of this stream. One might include the differences
between science and religion and, more recently, the “science
wars,” in which postmodernists have suggested the extreme
position that science itself has no claim to objectivity but is
merely another mode of looking at things, not superior in its
truth claims to any other mode.
Rather than pursue these parts of the debate in detail, I
wish to make one suggestion that must be considered if the
Forms of Knowledge
71
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 71
various views on either side are to be reconciled. It seems to
me that, if Descartes’s dualism is maintained, there must nec-
essarily be a split—the human sciences on the side of res cogi-
tans (thinking things) and the natural sciences on the side of
res extensa (extended things). This may seem curious, because
Descartes thought to ground all knowledge starting from res
cogitans. Indeed, Vico rejected Descartes’s position.5
Clearly the
position on consciousness I have already exposed rejects Carte-
sian dualism. In one interpretation, we might claim that William
James also rejected substance dualism in denying that con-
sciousness was an entity or a thing, suggesting instead that it
was a process whose function is knowing.6
The strains and dilemmas that have emerged from the split
have driven thinkers to extreme positions as well as to pene-
trating observations. The philosopher Alfred North Whitehead
was deeply concerned with the issue and indeed constructed
a whole metaphysics—the philosophy of the organism—to
get around it.7
Later, the debate flared up when C. P. Snow
wrote that there were two cultures or polar groups: literary in-
tellectuals versus scientists.8
Without indulging in such ex-
tremity, the physicist Erwin Schrödinger pointed out the curi-
ous fact that the great theories of physics did not contain or
address sensation or perception but simply assumed them.9
On the side of science, extreme postures were adopted
with as much energy as those expressed by historians and
hermeneuticists. For example, schools of psychology derived
Forms of Knowledge
72
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 72
from John B. Watson and B. F. Skinner put forth the notion of
behaviorism, that all mentalistic explanations should be re-
jected.10
Some, like Skinner, admitted of mental events but de-
nied mentalistic causes. In the past decade, a view called elimi-
native materialism has surfaced that actually claims that there
are no mental events or processes.11
Another philosophical school of thought, logical positivism,
proposed in effect that science was the only legitimate form of
knowledge. It was “logical” in its dependence on logical and
mathematical studies, and it asserted that a priori knowledge
of necessary truths could be made consistent with empirical
science. Essentially, the claim was that any statements made
outside this frame were neither true nor false but meaningless.
Unfortunately, there was no way of showing that the assump-
tions of this school of thought could themselves meet the cri-
teria of meaningfulness. Some of the thinkers emerging from
the so-called Vienna Circle, which provided an early impetus
to logical positivism, hoped to formulate a completely unified
science. The hope of Otto Neurath, for example, was to give
sociology a solid scientific status, but he never achieved the
dream.12
Nonetheless, some of his views were cousin to Quine’s
later notion of naturalized epistemology.
Two other efforts at scientific reductionism have come to
the fore in recent times. The most ambitious is one derived
from theoretical physics—the hope of constructing a so-called
theory of everything (TOE). This is the search for a coherent
Forms of Knowledge
73
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 73
formal description (essentially mathematical) that would unify
all the four forces of nature—electromagnetism, the weak force,
the strong force, and gravity.13
Some claims have been made
that, with string theory, we are well on the way to achieving this
goal. Unfortunately, there is presently no single verifiable form
of such a theory, and in any event, it certainly would not, in
Schrödinger’s sense, include an explanation of the sensation
and perception necessary to understand it.
Another extreme of scientific reductionism, based on bi-
ology rather than physics, has been put forth by E. O. Wilson.14
He claims that once we understand the so-called epigenetic
rules by which the brain is formed and works, we will be able
to reconcile human behavior, including normative behavior,
by applying these rules. Thus, Wilson claims that even ethics
and aesthetics will yield to this reductive analysis, which he calls
consilience. The term “consilience” was adopted by Wilson
from William Whewell, who used it in his tract The Philosophy
of Inductive Sciences (1840). By this term, Whewall meant the
“jumping together” of facts and theory across disciplines to
create a common ground of explanation.
Wilson’s statement early on is: “Given that human action
comprises events of physical causation, why should the social
sciences and the humanities be impervious to consilience with
the natural sciences? . . . Nothing fundamental separates the
course of human history from the course of physical history,
whether in the stars or in organic diversity.”15
Forms of Knowledge
74
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 74
The extremism of this position and of those on the other
side speaks to the need for moderation and a different form of
reconciliation, to which I now turn. In the course of that effort,
I will expand on some of the claims that I have skirted briefly
in the above account.
Forms of Knowledge
75
07edelmanCh07.068_075 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 75
eight
Repairing the Rift
Art is the objectification of feeling, and
the subjectification of nature.
— SUSANNE K. LANGER
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 76
C A N W E R E S O LV E T H E I S S U E S that have led to extreme reduc-
tionist positions on the side of science and to phenomenology,
hermeneutics, and proud humanism on the side of the humani-
ties? Can we repair the rift? As I have said before in considering
the Cartesian position, one barrier to repairing the rift was the
failure to bring consciousness into the worldview—to natu-
ralize it. That has now become possible, and indeed there is
mounting evidence from neuroscience that our cognitive ca-
pacities arose in the natural order as a result of evolution.
Clearly, these capacities did not stem from logic or computa-
tion but instead emerged with the appearance of various brain
functions including perception, memory, motor control, emo-
tions, and consciousness itself.
The brain itself emerged during evolution from a series of
events that involved historical accidents. Since the human brain
and its products developed within a historical context, one might
say that the tracing of that development must to some extent
involve the same methodology as historians use to trace social
change or battles. That is, to some extent, true. But the theory
of natural selection, because it is buttressed by molecular ge-
netics and paleontology, allows a historical account of brain
evolution that is somewhat more coherent than most descrip-
tions of human exchanges in peace or war.
In one of his essays, Isaiah Berlin makes it clear that the
concept of scientific history is untenable for a variety of rea-
sons.1
First, unlike science, history cannot be described in terms
Repairing the Rift
77
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 77
of general laws. This does not mean that historians do not rely
on general propositions. They rely on multiple facts and on the
general texture of experience, often involving common sense.
There is, in general, however, an absence of the models that
are so frequent in scientific pursuits. Moreover, the logic and
hypothetico-deductive method central to science is not often
applicable to historical events.2
Even though some claim may
be made for such approaches in the human sciences of sociol-
ogy and economics, they are not readily applicable to most
historical accounts. If science is concerned with similarities and
laws, history is equally concerned with unique events and dif-
ferences that often depend on beliefs, desires, and intentions
within a given culture.3
In considering human affairs, the scholar
or interpreter must place himself or herself within the fabric of
these propositional attitudes. General history is a mix of dis-
parate elements that can be studied within different disciplines
but not in terms of some general law. Moreover, there are nor-
mative elements related to morals and aesthetics that are in-
volved within historical descriptions. These issues pose daunt-
ing challenges to the historian, who may have to understand
and interpret events that occurred in a culture other than his or
her own.
Berlin makes the claim that scientific and historical ac-
counts represent different kinds of knowledge. He expresses
this difference by contrasting the views of an external observer
and an actor, a contrast between coherence and interpretation.
Repairing the Rift
78
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 78
While the gifted historian must be able to describe the doings
of people in many dimensions, scientists on their side do not
depend for their generalizations upon contact with common
human experience. History, in Berlin’s view, is not and cannot
be a science.
From time to time, individual historians have attempted
to overgeneralize historical interpretation. The results can seem
ludicrous. Take for example, the efforts of Brooks Adams, Henry
Adams’s brother. In a book called The Law of Civilization and
Decay, he attempted to interpret history in terms of the growth
and decline of commerce, with less than satisfactory results.4
In more recent times, one may note the grand efforts of Os-
wald Spengler and Arnold Toynbee, both of whose syntheses
have fallen by the wayside. And even Vico, in his effort to de-
scribe cultural stages in history as those of gods, of heroes, and
of men, succumbed to overgeneralization.5
Not all attempts to describe and construe past events are
so grandiose or silly. John Lewis Gaddis, for example, has put
forth an excellent account of the methodology employed by
historians.6
He is aware of the contingent, incomplete, and ir-
reversible complexities of historical events. In describing ap-
proaches to deal with such events, he justifiably decries the
linear, overly simplistic analyses of many social scientists. Ef-
fectively, his claim is that the complexity of history cannot be
fit by a Newtonian model, and he rejects the notion of reduc-
tionism as a means of historical analysis. But then he suggests
Repairing the Rift
79
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 79
that what historians do is closer to the procedures of scientists!
He bases this claim on the advances made by scientists in com-
plexity theory, chaos theory, fractals, and the like, advances
that he feels share the flavor of the historian’s methodology.
Unfortunately, the analogy has several flaws. First, although
interesting results have been obtained in the analysis of com-
plex systems, scientists are far from having an adequate pic-
ture of far-from-equilibrium or irreversible processes. We still
lack adequate means for dealing effectively with multicausal
processes for which independent variables cannot be discerned.
Second, the measurements made in deterministic systems that
are chaotic are still physical measurements. Although small ini-
tial errors in such measurements propagate to yield chaos,
they remain quantitative measurements. Historical systems
are rarely, if ever, quantifiable in this way. Nonetheless, Gad-
dis persists in his analogy and respectfully disagrees with Berlin.
The methods of historians he so artfully summarizes still re-
main largely qualitative.
Gaddis makes a defensible claim that there are sciences
with a historical flavor. These include cosmology, geology, pa-
leontology, ecology, and anthropology. It is true that scientists
in these areas must take account of historical events, and evo-
lutionary theory and natural selection certainly must deal head-
on with such events. (One might even consider Darwin a
historian!) Moreover, because of their inevitable complexity
and limitations on material, fields such as geology and pale-
Repairing the Rift
80
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 80
ontology must deal with incomplete records. Nonetheless, there
are powerful scientific theories that constrain these fields—
astrophysics for cosmology, plate tectonics for geology, natu-
ral selection for biology. No such set of constraining theories
is available to historians unless one admits a potpourri of
weakly based psychological theories—Freudian analysis, so-
cioeconomic models of rational behavior, and the like. Perhaps
the closest analogue to Gaddis’s suggestion is ecology, where
multiple variables recursively interact in complex environ-
ments. Indeed, we may conclude that there are bases for call-
ing ecology a soft science. But, even so, ecology can still mar-
shal a set of constraining scientific theories and quantitative
methods not available to historians.
If we accept Berlin’s analysis rather than Gaddis’s, we may
ask why the methodologies and aims of science and historical
analysis differ. The answer is not hard to find. Historical events
are contingent, usually irreversible, and often unique. They in-
volve high-order issues related to cultural idiosyncrasies, lin-
guistic ambiguity, and specific moral or aesthetic constraints.
While, as a person, a scientist is necessarily embedded in such
a fabric, his or her aim is to supervene over or transcend the
accidents of everyday existence and derive a general set of
models and laws in whatever subject domain he or she works.
It is of particular interest, however, that these laws them-
selves do not give rise to science. People pursuing experiments
and hypotheses give rise to laws. Science itself, and clearly
Repairing the Rift
81
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 81
Western science, arose within a particular historical context.
What factors govern the actual historical emergence of scien-
tific knowledge beginning with men like Francis Bacon and
Galileo and going on to the present?
I believe we can help formulate an answer to this question
by considering how the brain evolved and how it operates. In
the earlier chapters of this book, I mentioned the evidence that
the brain and mind arose as a product of natural selection. I
concluded that the human brain itself operates as a selectional
system with highly variant repertoires of circuits. Subsets of
these circuits are selected to match signals from the world of
complex events. In a previous chapter, I argued that the brain
is not a computer and that the world is not a piece of coded
tape. The brain must, in the absence of unambiguous signals,
establish regularities of behavior under constraints of inher-
ited value systems and of idiosyncratic perceptual and memorial
events. In human beings, such systems and events necessarily
involve emotions and biases.
Selectionistic brains themselves show the effects of his-
torical contingency, irreversibility, and the operation of non-
linear processes. They consist of enormously complex and
degenerate networks that are uniquely embodied in each indi-
vidual. Moreover, human brains operate fundamentally in terms
of pattern recognition rather than of logic. They are highly
constructive in settling on given patterns and at the same time
are constantly open to error. This is seen in perceptual illusions
Repairing the Rift
82
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 82
as well as in higher-order beliefs. But as shown by the analy-
sis of learning, error correction is usually available in response
to appropriate rewards or punishments.
When we consider modes of thought pursued by selec-
tionistic brains, there is a set of relations between pattern
recognition and logic that is both contrastive and a reinforc-
ing.7
A fundamental early mode of thinking that is highly de-
pendent on pattern recognition involves metaphor. Metaphor
is a reflection of the range and associativity of enormously
complex and degenerate brain networks. It is pertinent that
the products of metaphorical thinking can be understood but
cannot be proven as can simile or logical propositions. For ex-
ample, if I say, “I am in the evening of my life,” the statement
is understandable but not provable.8
Language itself reflects the constructive yet inherently
ambiguous and indeterminate aspect of this mode of thought.
These features are the result of the trade-off between speci-
ficity and range in selectionistic systems that necessarily ex-
hibit degeneracy, a subject I shall address in chapter 10. The
diverse repertoires of such systems are never perfect matches
to the contents of the domains they must recognize. But after
selection occurs across a range of variants, refinement can take
place with increasing specificity. This is the case in those situa-
tions where logic or mathematics can be applied. We conclude
that the necessary price of successful pattern recognition in
creative thinking is initial degeneracy, ambiguity, and com-
Repairing the Rift
83
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 83
plexity. In scientific situations, however, the subsequent ap-
plication of observation, logic, and mathematics can yield laws
or at least strong regularities. In the case of historical analysis,
qualitative judgment and interpretation are usually the most
we can achieve.
Although all of our brain functions and cognitive capaci-
ties are constrained by physics and can be understood as prod-
ucts of natural selection, not all of these capabilities can be
treated successfully by reduction. As a means to repair the rift,
the notion of consilience as proposed by E. O. Wilson is unten-
able.9
His idea, for example, that normative systems such as
ethics and aesthetics can be reduced to explanation by epige-
netic rules of the brain is inconsistent both with the nature of
these systems and with how the selectionistic brain works. As
David Hume pointed out, “ought” does not come from “is.” To
assume otherwise is to indulge in G. E. Moore’s naturalistic
fallacy.10
Looking at the issue from the side of the brain and
mind, epigenetic rules cannot satisfactorily cover the rich com-
plexity and individual history of degenerate networks in the
brain. Conscious experiences themselves are enormously com-
plex discriminations in a high-order qualia space, as we have
pointed out, and each individual’s history and set of brain events
are unique. Although there are certainly regularities of intention-
ality and behavior, they are variable, culture- and language-
dependent, and enormously rich. Subjectivity is irreducible.
There is a curiously recursive element in this brain-based
Repairing the Rift
84
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 84
account of how knowledge is acquired. To get science, we
need history acting on selectionistic brains. Eventually, this al-
lows the reduction of certain physical and chemical events to
general laws. The world order or universe follows physical
laws. The remainder of individual and historical events must
also follow these laws but cannot be fully explained by or be
reduced to them.11
Irreducible or not, we can agree that all
these events are scientifically grounded in the natural order.
The evolution of brains and conscious minds occurred by natu-
ral selection within the framework of physical laws. So the se-
quence is clear: following the evolution of Homo sapiens, the
emergence of language and higher-order consciousness allowed
the development of empirical science in the service of the veri-
fiable truth. The application of logic in relation to language
and observation of the world, and of mathematics as the study
of stable mental objects, profoundly enhanced these develop-
ments. Nonetheless, these developments occurred within a
specific historical matrix that cannot be reduced to them or by
them. Moreover, there is no contradiction in the fact that se-
lectionistic brains capable of higher-order consciousness and
pattern recognition could create artistic, aesthetic, or ethical
systems within particular historical and cultural conditions.
We can conclude that there is no logically necessary divorce
between science and the humanities, only a tense relation in
which science is admitted as a fundamental but not exhaustive
or exclusive basis for grounding our knowledge.
Repairing the Rift
85
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 85
This picture, which is a starting point for brain-based epis-
temology, is considerably looser than the rigorous developments
of epistemological issues by generations of philosophers. It
does not, however, exclude these rigorous developments.
Rather, it relates them to their ultimate origins in natural and
neuronal group selection. In contrast to Quine’s efforts at natu-
ralization, brain-based epistemology does not stop at the skin
or sensory receptors.12
It includes more than perception. In-
deed, it is based on the analysis by Neural Darwinism of con-
scious states. The neural underpinnings of such states make
human knowledge possible.
It is well to recall that even though all our knowledge de-
pends on our conscious states, these states are necessary but
not sufficient for learning. Conscious states themselves appear
to have many of the characteristics of irreversible, contingent,
and fleeting events. They are unitary but change serially in
short intervals of time. They have wide-ranging contents and
access to stores of memory and knowledge. They are modu-
lated by attention. Above all, they reflect subjective feelings
and the experience of qualia. The evolutionary advantage of-
fered by the emergence of the reentrant dynamic core provided
its possessor with vast numbers of sensorimotor discrimina-
tions. Qualia are just those discriminations entailed by differ-
ent core states. They can reflect factual verities as well as illu-
sions and are, in all cases, subject to the constraints of neural
value systems.
Repairing the Rift
86
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 86
Given this picture, which is consistent with Neural Dar-
winism, it is no surprise that rich private experience and exter-
nal historical events should share properties of both contin-
gency and necessity. The underlying historical processes have
complexities that rule out simple reduction of all experience to
scientific description. The remarkable event remains: thought
within such a system led to the scientific revolution and the
generality of scientific laws. It is enough to show how both
science and history can be comprehended in our picture of
the brain. Divorce is not at issue: the processes that give rise
to our understanding comprehend both the sciences and the
humanities.
Repairing the Rift
87
08edelmanCh08.076_087 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 87
nine
Causation, Illusions, and Values
Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a
very persistent one.
Science can only ascertain what is, but not what
should be, and outside of its domain value
judgments of all kinds remain necessary.
— ALBERT EINSTEIN
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 88
I N O U R AT T E M P T S T O T R A C E and complete the Galilean arc,
we must not abandon the aim of science. That aim is to pos-
sess a value-free, veridical description of nature, one free of il-
lusions. Science, as the physical chemist Jacobus Henricus
van’t Hoff once said, is imagination in the service of the veri-
fiable truth.1 If we accept this, we must also accept that there
is no necessary or restrictive constraint on how imagination is
exercised, provided that observation and experimentation
lead to verification.
The admission of consciousness as a proper target of sci-
entific research has a curious consequence. One must find
means of analysis that do not deviate from the causal analysis
employed in third-person research. At the same time, one
must be aware of the fact that consciousness is a first-person
affair, displays intentionality, reflects beliefs and desires, and is
subject to illusions and abnormalities that are cousins to cre-
ative imagination.2 To see how to handle this situation, we
must analyze the causal connections of brain action. We must
then reconcile this analysis with the existence of illusions, use-
ful and otherwise.
First, however, let us take stock and review the argument.
We have taken the position that, given the selectionistic prop-
erties of the human brain, no adequate reduction of human
sciences to the brain’s so-called epigenetic rules is realizable.
The brain operates by selectional matching of its nonlinear
variant repertoires with occasionally novel and nonlinear events
Causation, Illusions, and Values
89
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 89
provided by world and self signals. With the advent of true
language and higher-order consciousness, enormous numbers
of discriminations can be experienced. The degeneracy and as-
sociativity of these discriminations are accompanied by an
even more enormous set of combinations and recombinations
of states integrated by the dynamic core. These states are not
necessarily veridical and, in addition, are often constructive,
contingent, and context-dependent.
The mode of thought that results from these operations
initially involves pattern recognition and not logic. Because se-
lection in this neural system is constrained by the operation of
heritable value systems and perceptually based memory, the
system entails intentionality, beliefs, desires, and emotional
states. Such a system is as subject to contingent events from
within as it is to external contingencies. It can exhibit singular
states as well as regularities, and some of these states are ex-
perienced as private, irreducible features of subjectivity.
All of these properties are expressed in one degree or an-
other in thinking and in language. Early on in thinking, metaphor
can dominate, and even after the application of logic, language
is rich with metaphorical expression. Moreover, as Quine
pointed out, language itself shows indeterminacy in reference
and translation.3
The ambiguity that is inherent in natural lan-
guage is not a critical weakness, however. On the contrary, it
is the basis of the rich combinational power that we recognize
in imaginative constructions. These properties are just what
Causation, Illusions, and Values
90
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 90
one would expect to result from the operation of a selectional
brain.
Scientific insight results when this power is constrained
by logic, mathematics, and controlled observations. But not all
judgment and thought can be reduced to scientific description.
A key example is the area of normative judgment seen in
ethics and aesthetics. Hume’s argument still holds: “ought” does
not derive in any straightforward way from “is.”
These limitations on scientific reduction do not mean that
conscious activity, language, and issues of meaning derive from
some spooky realm of res cogitans. By explaining the neural
basis of conscious thought, we can in fact reconcile the ap-
pearance of all of the rich properties of thought with physics
and biology. The result is indeed a form of reconciliation; di-
vorce is not necessary.
To provide a firm base for this reconciliation (and for a
brain-based epistemology), we must address a classical ques-
tion: Are consciousness and “mental events” causal? And, if not,
what is the relation between causal brain action and conscious-
ness? The answers to these questions may startle us, inasmuch
as they reveal a set of illusions that we must live with.
It is commonplace to talk of mental events or phenome-
nal experience as if they were causal. But inasmuch as con-
sciousness is a process entailed by integration of neural activity
in the reentrant dynamic core, it cannot itself be causal. At the
macroscopic level the physical world is causally closed: only
Causation, Illusions, and Values
91
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 91
transactions at the level of matter or energy can be causal. So
it is the activity of the thalamocortical core that is causal, not
the phenomenal experience it entails. To make the point clear,
let us define C to be the integrated pattern of neural activity
that makes up the dynamic core at a particular time. C entails
a conscious state we call C and which involves a particular set
of discriminations. C not only entails C but contributes causally
to subsequent C states as well as bodily actions. The rela-
tionship between C and C is faithful and for this reason, in
most cases, we can speak of C as if it is causal. Indeed, C states
are informative of C states. They are our only access to such
states, inasmuch as our neurophysiological methods cannot,
at present, record the myriad neural contributions that are in-
tegrated in a given causal core state.
So we must conclude that our belief that consciousness
causes things to happen is one of a number of useful illusions.
The usefulness of this particular illusion may be appreciated
by considering that we speak to each other in C language. But
the underlying neural activity is what drives individual and
mental responses. Philosophers have found this set of conclu-
sions to be an expression of epiphenomenalism—that con-
sciousness does nothing. In fact, it serves to inform us of our
brain states and is thus central to our understanding. The tra-
ditional horror with which epiphenominalism is met by philoso-
phers can be abated once the faithful entailment mechanisms
of reentrant core states are understood.4
Causation, Illusions, and Values
92
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 92
I have called another conscious illusion the Heraclitean il-
lusion because it reflects our way of thinking about time and
change. Most people sense the passage of time as the move-
ment of a point or a scene from the past to the present to the
future. But in a strict physical sense, only the present exists.
The integration of core states leading to conscious states takes
a finite time of two hundred to five hundred milliseconds.
This time period is the lower limit of the remembered present.
The past and future are, in contrast, concepts available only to
higher-order consciousness. Nonetheless, we often think of
the flow of time as we do, in terms of the movement of a
Heraclitean river. Within this illusion falls the changing sense
of duration we all experience under different conditions. Ex-
perienced time, unlike clock time, can seem slow or fast de-
pending on various conscious states.
These issues may be connected to two others: the useful-
ness of conscious discrimination in planning, over times of
seconds to minutes, and the temporal relation between the ac-
tivity of the core and of brain areas concerned with action and
agency. As I have said, conscious states involve integration
times of hundreds of milliseconds. But unconscious neural
activity leading to action can lead to much faster responses.
Many such responses (aside from innate startle responses) re-
quire conscious training. After deliberate practice, habitual
responses are then mediated nonconsciously and rapidly by
subcortical structures interacting with the cortex. Clearly, it is
Causation, Illusions, and Values
93
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 93
the play between core states, attention, and subcortical re-
sponses that provides the basis for complex suites of action
and movement.
Connected to the illusion of a causal consciousness and
the Heraclitean illusion is the time-honored and much debated
issue of free will.5
In the strict recognition that all physical
events have causes, one must conclude that core states as
physical events are determined. Nonetheless, when not physi-
cally bound or in prison or in the throes of neural disaster, we
can honestly claim the ability to do “as we like” or “see fit,” il-
lusory or not. It is on this base that we hold persons respon-
sible for acts determined by society’s “oughts,” and we train
our children accordingly in terms of reward and punishment.
These matters are connected to the relation between nor-
mative concerns and neural states. We have dismissed the idea
that “ought” comes from “is” and have repudiated the natural-
istic fallacy. Nevertheless, we have all inherited a set of neu-
ral structures, the value systems, that are critical to the func-
tioning of our brains as selectionistic systems. As I pointed out
earlier, the function of these systems is to provide species-
specific constraints on the manifold of selective events that
can occur in an individual. Suckling reflexes, startle responses,
and the action of hormonal pathways and of autonomic neu-
ral systems affecting our metabolic and physiological states
and emotions are essential to our adaptive functioning. How-
ever, they must not be confused with the categories that arise
Causation, Illusions, and Values
94
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 94
after experiential selection under their constraint. Indeed, in
humans with higher-order consciousness, the learning of cate-
gories can actually modify the set points of value systems. Hu-
mans, unlike most animals, have modifiable value. What ensues
is not predictable: there are no animal equivalents of saints,
who, even under torture can prefer death to renunciation.
So value systems may jump-start the building of oughts in
a society but do not directly determine them. Value systems
also provide a brain basis for our complex emotional responses.
Unlike Antonio R. Damasio in his excellent account of the
neurobiology of emotions, I consider that emotions are com-
plex states arising from core interactions with value systems.6
The C states that ensue are accompanied not only by feelings
and cognitive content but also by the bodily responses that
these states cause. The pleasure and displeasure that can arise
clearly reflect the activity of modulatory value responses. But
just as C states reflect huge complexity, their interaction with
value systems can also lead to enormous complexes of pri-
mary and secondary emotions, with and without cognitive
concomitants. All such responses are intimately coupled to the
cognitive and emotional construction of the process we call
the self. In this respect, whatever errors are laid at Freud’s
doorstep, he must be credited for his exploration of that pro-
cess and his attempts to understand it.
When we contrast the picture of generativity provided by
brain-based epistemology with that of its philosophical pre-
Causation, Illusions, and Values
95
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 95
cursors, we cannot help but be struck by a startling difference.
What we have called traditional epistemology is concerned
with justified true belief and the pursuit of truth and truth con-
ditions. By no means should the importance of such concerns
be underestimated. But their pursuit is, in the end, a narrow
and terminal enterprise largely preoccupied with language,
meaning, and logic. It has not been the proper concern of that
enterprise to take up motivation (conscious or not) or emotion
or pattern recognition per se. Nonetheless, these are all critical
to how knowledge is acquired.
Although the biologically based enterprise is considerably
less elegant, it can be looked on as prior to and generative of
the traditional view. A possible criticism of this conclusion is
that it confounds psychology and epistemology. So be it. It is
as important to human knowledge to know how knowledge
originates in the long course of evolution as it is to understand
truth by disquotation. If we concur that the statement “snow
is white” is true if and only if snow is white is an elegant way
of assuring a certain kind of truth, it is equally important to
recognize its biological as well as its social origins. The reasons
are compelling: there are various grounds for claiming truth,
and these grounds must be placed in relation to their origins.
To be restricted to invariance under lexical substitution (a
property of first-order predicate logic) is too narrow a fate. In-
deed, the development of logic itself must have depended on
Causation, Illusions, and Values
96
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 96
the cultural consequences of higher-order consciousness. Cre-
ative conscious imagination complemented by logic has gone
a long way in the development of scientific truth. It is there-
fore illuminating to ask how creativity in thought and action
emerges from the operation of the brain as a selectional system.
Causation, Illusions, and Values
97
09edelmanCh09.088_097 7/22/06 1:57 PM Page 97
ten
Creativity
T H E P L A Y B E T W E E N S P E C I F I C I T Y
A N D R A N G E
The mind of a man is more intuitive than logical, and
comprehends more than it can coordinate.
— LUC DE CLAPIERS, MARQUIS DE VAUVENARGUES
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 98
I N D I S C U S S I N G C R E AT I V I T Y , I wish to exercise caution and
restraint. My purpose is not to discuss aesthetics or the specifics
of artistic creation. It is rather to ask how a selectional brain
theory provides a useful background for understanding indi-
vidual and communal acts of creativity. The word “creativity”
itself has rich connotations. To be creative is, by dictionary ref-
erence, to be original, inventive, expressive, or imaginative. To
create is to make, produce, construct, or call into existence. A
reference to God the creator is not rare in certain contexts.
Less obvious is the implication that a creator has freedom to
create, connecting the various aspects of creativity to prob-
lems of free will.
As I said, I want to stay away from these issues, and
therefore it may be asked why I turn my attention to the
matter of creativity at all. It is because I believe that a case can
be made that understanding a brain operating by selectionistic
mechanisms to yield a consciousness composed of enormous
numbers of discriminations can provide an underlying basis
for creative actions. I want to be careful, though, in pursuing
this issue. The tenets of Neural Darwinism are not to be con-
sidered the proximate or even ultimate explanation of our abil-
ity to create in whatever field. But they can cast light on the
problem of how conscious and unconscious brain activity can
give rise to new ideas, works of art and music, and literary pro-
ductions. In such works and productions we reveal a second
Creativity
99
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 99
nature. If our scientific description of the world is concerned
with nature, our creativity reflects the ability of our brain to
give rise to a second nature.
This is the case because of the way in which the com-
plexity of the brain’s repertoires can be selectively matched to
the complexity of signals from nature itself. I have said that, if
the assumptions of Neural Darwinism are correct, then every
act of perception is to some degree an act of creation, and
every act of memory is to some degree an act of imagination.
Remember, in addition, that the mature brain speaks mainly
to itself. Dreams, images, fantasies, and a variety of intentional
states reflect the massive recombinatorial and integrative power
of brain events underlying conscious processes.
Without impinging on the problem of free will, we can
certainly see how Neural Darwinism and its extended theory
of consciousness provides the basis for such combinatorial ac-
tivity. First of all, a selectional system must rely on the gener-
ation of diversity. The repertoires that result must in general
contain very large numbers of variants. A good example to il-
lustrate this point is provided by the immune system.1
Even
though each individual might have the ability to generate dif-
ferent antibodies, if only hundreds or even thousands of vari-
ants were produced, the system would fail to recognize the
variety of foreign antigens presented by viruses and bacteria.
In fact, the number of different antibody variants, one on each
separate lymphocyte, exceeds one hundred billion. Beyond
Creativity
100
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 100
some upper limit, however, the cost of producing orders of
magnitude more antibodies would yield diminishing returns.
Antibody repertoires of adequate size also show degeneracy
in their components—a given foreign antigen can be recog-
nized by more than one structurally different antibody. Such a
system is not built by information transfer from the objects it
ultimately must recognize. Instead, it responds to them by dif-
ferential amplification of selected variants.
Similar notions are applicable to the brain as a selective
system, for neural circuits and dynamics do not in general have
prescribed information on what the brain will recognize by
perceptual categorization. Of course, even in brains, there are
evolutionarily determined value systems and reflexes charac-
teristic of a given species. These constrain selection events in
response to external and internal signals but do not fully de-
termine them. In a number of its responses the operation of
the brain is reminiscent of the statement by E. M. Forster, who
reportedly said, “How do I know what I think unless I see
what I say.”2
What has all this to do with creativity? In generating a
rich repertoire, only a certain degree of specific recognition can
emerge if, in building the system, no information is provided
on that which is to be recognized. So if instruction is precluded
and yet recognition of a wide variety of states is required, the
price paid is a certain loss of specificity. That loss, seen, for ex-
ample, as ambiguity or indeterminacy in language, is the price
Creativity
101
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 101
that must be paid if the range of signals to be responded to is
large. We know, in fact, that the econiche in which animals
must survive has an enormous number of signals to which an
individual must adapt. For individuals and species to survive,
a trade-off must be made between specificity and range.
Similarly, after the range of a brain’s or immune system’s
repertoires is utilized, mechanisms must exist for going beyond
the initial selectional steps. The differential amplification of
initially selected repertoire elements must be subsequently re-
fined. In the immune system this is achieved by mutating and
reselecting already selected cells to produce antibodies with a
higher binding energy to the foreign antigen. In the brain, of
course, the means of enhancing specificity are quite different.
The brain relies on a number of mechanisms to enhance
the specificity of its responses. One involves experiential se-
lection through changes in synaptic strength, constrained by
the activity of value systems. The contrast between specificity
and range clearly emerges during learning in the change from
initial exploratory responses to later conditioned responses.
Another source of specificity rests in the mechanisms of at-
tention, which restrict particular patterns of neural response
while bypassing others.
The number of possible combinations of corticothalamic
patterns of responses is hyperastronomical. The mechanisms
mentioned above can be combined with those of short-term
Creativity
102
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 102
working memory (of phone numbers, for example) or of long-
term episodic memory of life events in the past to yield out-
puts that result from repertoires interacting exclusively within
the brain.
The important point is that this selective system allows
enormous combinatorial freedom for thought and imagery,
and even for logic and mathematical calculation. Sequences of
thought can be presentational, as in the linkage of visual im-
ages, or discursive, as in thinking based on language, where
imagery is not necessarily involved. In this account, thought
reflects the activity of sensorimotor brain circuits in which the
motoric elements are paramount but do not eventuate in ac-
tion.3
Although the linkages and sequences during thought
involve activity of motor portions of the cortex, the motor cor-
tex itself does not send consequential signals to the moto-
neurons of the spinal cord or to the muscles.
I have already mentioned my belief that there are two
main modes of thought—pattern recognition and logic. I have
also suggested that the primary mode, giving enormous range
in confronting novelty, is pattern recognition. This is seen
primitively in gestalt responses, in the ordering of words, and
in various acts of classification.4
It is enormously powerful,
but because of the need for range, it carries with it a loss of
specificity. In certain instances, logic can then be employed to
eliminate ambiguity. Of course, the use of controlled scientific
Creativity
103
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 103
observation enormously enhances the specificity and general-
ity of these interactions. This movement from range to speci-
ficity may be seen as mirroring the generative relationship be-
tween brain-based epistemology and traditional epistemology.
We may now return finally to the matter of creativity as a
reflection of selectional neural systems. There is enormous
freedom for recombination among core states in humans hav-
ing higher-order consciousness. Creativity in any field must
first be permissively allowed for within the huge range of dis-
criminatory qualia. The constraints that are applied through
experience and convention prompt various “internal experi-
ments” to emerge, involving order and disorder, tension and
relaxation, and the play between the core and nonconscious
portions of the brain. Of course, the resulting output is subject
to further constraints that come from experiences within a cul-
ture. Those experiences determine the choice and response to
patterns, altering expectation and prompting abstraction from
the flux of experience.
Many of these creative responses depend on the construc-
tive nature of brain action. This can be seen even in the denial
of reality that emerges from neuropsychological disorders like
anosognosia, which I shall take up next. Unlike the require-
ment that error must be removed from a computer program,
however, the likelihood of error must be tolerated even in the
normal individual if the brain is to confront novelty in an adap-
Creativity
104
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 104
tive fashion. So it is no surprise that the very origin of Western
science depended on the prior existence of certain norms and
beliefs that science itself could neither verify nor show to be
in error, even after its triumphant emergence as a major source
of truth.
Creativity
105
10edelmanCh10.098_105 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 105
eleven
Abnormal States
You must always be puzzled by mental illness. The
thing I would dread most, if I became mentally ill,
would be your adopting a common sense attitude; that
you could take it for granted that I was deluded.
— LUDWIG WITTGENSTEIN
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 106
I T I S A C O M M O N P L A C E T O hear that creative genius is akin to
or linked to madness. But any consideration of brain diseases
that lead to impaired function, delusion, or hallucination will
readily limit the truth of that statement. Abnormal states of
consciousness, whether the result of drugs, chronic degenera-
tive brain disease, strokes, or the like, unlike creative efforts,
do not usually require sophisticated normative standards for
us to judge that they are unusual.1
Victims of neuropsycho-
logical syndromes have brain damage that is obviously causal
of their symptoms. With psychoses, the issue of causation
can be more subtle, and both the etiology and the pathogene-
sis of disease can be more obscure. Nonetheless, there is no
mistaking the advanced delusional or hallucinatory state of
a schizophrenic. And although matters can be more elusive
in patients with bipolar disorders, their genuine reports of
misery and slowed or manic behavior generally deviate from
ordinary norms sufficiently to provide no diagnostic obstacles.
With neuroses, however, the question of normative stan-
dards comes to the fore. Is unhappiness a neurotic symptom?
Are neurotic persons simply suffering from extreme unhappi-
ness? What can we say about these issues?
I propose to consider how our account of brain function,
consciousness, and the impact of science on human knowl-
edge may shed light on the issues of abnormal mental states
and vice versa. Given the vastness of this subject, I cannot go
into great detail. I propose to consider neuropsychological syn-
Abnormal States
107
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 107
dromes first because they often illuminate aspects of normal
brain function. Then I will briefly consider psychoses, particu-
larly those that are, in one way or another, diseases of con-
sciousness. Last, I will take up the challenging issue of neuro-
sis. It is on this final set of examples that I wish to dwell, for
their boundaries with normal behavior are often difficult to
discern.
The question I will address at that point is whether one
may legitimately entertain or need a theory of neurosis. Obvi-
ously, this prompts thought of the predominant exponent of a
wide-ranging theory of neurosis and of human personality,
Sigmund Freud. Before launching into my thoughts on such
matters, I had best set out my response to psychoanalytic theory.
First, consider Freud’s extraordinary accomplishments.2
What-
ever one thinks of his sometimes exotic metaphors, Freud was
the key expositor of the effects of unconscious processes on be-
havior. Furthermore, even if one rejects his characterization of
personality structure, he provided clear descriptions and use-
ful and innovative vocabularies for dealing with mechanisms
of so-called ego defense. These are remarkable achievements.
When, however, one considers his accounts of infantile sex-
uality, of the analysis of dreams, and of repression and mem-
ory, matters become harder to evaluate. Freud wove his ideas
into a psychological “theory” that could be used to account for
neurosis. Unfortunately, the so-called theory consisted mainly
of a set of metaphors and was thereby untestable. (As I pointed
Abnormal States
108
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 108
out earlier, metaphors, unlike similes, can be grasped but can-
not be proved or disproved.) The grand sweep of these meta-
phors was found to be attractive for matters of interpretation
in the humanities, and this certainly contributed to the remark-
able growth and permeation of Freud’s proposals.
Unfortunately, the biological grounds on which Freud based
these proposals were ill-founded. An example is his reliance
on Lamarckian notions and on the biogenetic law of Haeckel
which states that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny.3
More-
over, subsequent attempts to test the therapeutic effectiveness
of psychoanalysis have been at best inconclusive and at worst
unconvincing.
To my mind, Freud’s imagination was remarkable and, in
certain contexts, even useful, but it did not give rise to scien-
tific insight. His efforts nonetheless provoke the question that
I plan eventually to address: Is a scientific theory of neurosis
required or even possible? Approaches to answering this ques-
tion have a bearing on the issues of reductionism that we have
been considering all along. Before taking up these approaches,
let me turn first to neuropsychology and organic brain disease.
This will shed light on those aspects of brain-based epistemol-
ogy concerned with illusions and the origins of belief.
Neuropsychology as a descriptive discipline goes back to
the beginnings of modern neuroscience.4
Classical examples are
Broca’s and Wernicke’s aphasias. Damage to the motor associa-
tion cortex extending to the so-called Broca’s area leads to
Abnormal States
109
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 109
impairment of language production. Broca’s patients can com-
prehend spoken language but have failures in language pro-
duction and show defects in syntax and word order (so-called
agrammatism). By contrast, patients with Wernicke’s aphasia
show major defects in language comprehension. The lesion is
in the so-called Wernicke’s area near the superior portion of
the temporal lobe to which it often extends. Patients with this
syndrome have empty speech, in which they fail to express
their ideas. They often use the wrong word (paraphasia) or
make up neologisms.
Both Broca’s and Wernicke’s aphasias were described in
the late nineteenth century and are classic examples of neuro-
psychological disorders. Modern research has revealed them
to involve more than the cortical areas just described. Subcor-
tical areas are often also implicated. Because of their historical
priority, I mention them here as typical examples of functional
alterations resulting from the brain damage that is often caused
by stroke. Other examples include apraxias (disorders of move-
ments), agnosias (failures to recognize objects despite the abil-
ity to see, hear, and so on), alexia (failure in reading skills),
agraphia (failure in spelling or writing), dyslexias (difficulties
in reading), amnesias (various types of memory loss), and pro-
sopagnosia (failures to recognize faces). To one degree or an-
other, these difficulties (and many others I have not mentioned)
can be related more or less well to damage in specific brain areas
Abnormal States
110
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 110
or to failures in the embryonic development of certain parts of
the brain.
In the disorders I have mentioned, brain damage or dis-
ordered development clearly leads to certain alterations or
losses of function. Each of the disorders I stress here involves
a primary compensation, a delusional reaction, a confabula-
tion, or a reconstruction of what undamaged persons would
call reality. Sometimes these compensatory reactions are quite
subtle and can go undetected. At other times they may appear
bizarre. The reason I stress them here is twofold: we know
they result from overt brain damage, and the reactions to that
damage demonstrate quite clearly the constructive aspect of
brain action in the face of severe loss.
A striking example is seen in so-called disconnection syn-
dromes. Most of these involve disruption of the corpus callo-
sum, a commissure (a bundle of nerve tissues) consisting of
hundreds of millions of axons interconnecting the two cere-
bral hemispheres. Rarely, this commissure is not formed or is
dissolved in certain genetic diseases. In some cases, patients
with certain forms of epilepsy must undergo surgery that in-
volves cutting the corpus callosum. The resulting syndrome
has been masterfully studied by Roger Sperry.5
Although pa-
tients with commissurotomy can behave in ordinary circum-
stances in a fashion that appears normal, Sperry showed that
there were distinct behavioral and cognitive differences that
Abnormal States
111
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 111
could be detected easily by having the patients stare at two
screens, one for the right eye and the other for the left. The pa-
tient could then respond to commands either verbally or by
pointing. As expected, verbal responses to pictures in the right
visual field originated in the left hemisphere. But the right
hemisphere could respond to an image in the left visual field
only by pointing with the left hand. Indeed, in certain tasks of
arranging blocks in patterns, the left hand, guided by the right
hemisphere, performed somewhat better than the right hand.
In one case, it appeared that a young patient retained the
ability to respond to written queries by using the left hand to
spell answers with the equivalent of scrabble blocks. Asked
about a favorite rock star, the patient using the left brain an-
swered vocally. The left hand, however, spelled out a different
name! From similar data, Sperry concluded that there were
two consciousnesses at work—that of the everyday person
dominated by speech originating in the left hemisphere and
that of a more limited type in the right. (This has been dis-
puted as a conclusion, but it has not been disproved.)
What could the origin of two conscious respondents in
one body be? The extended theory of Neural Darwinism would
propose the hypothesis that there are two dynamic cores, each
with capabilities that depend on the reentrant linkages con-
strained by different target areas in the cortex.
In any event, when the left hand performs in contrary
fashion, the vocal patient confabulates or invents a rationali-
Abnormal States
112
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 112
zation for any apparent contradiction. This has a bearing on
epistemological issues in normal persons. It suggests that the
brain of the conscious verbal individual must close a pattern or
“make sense” at whatever cost.6
We will see similar phenom-
ena in other neuropsychological syndromes.
There are other syndromes in which there is a loss of ca-
pability on one side of the brain. An example is the syndrome
of hemineglect, which sometimes arises when the so-called
right parietal cortex (see figure 1) is strongly damaged by a
stroke. The patient experiences and reports no vision in the
left half of the visual field and behaves accordingly by shaving
only on the right side or by reading a clock from twelve to six
but not six to twelve.
More extreme strokes, which extend to include areas be-
yond the parietal on the right, can lead to the curious syndrome
of anosognosia. The patient not only has neglect but is com-
pletely paralyzed on the left side. But patients with this syn-
drome deny being paralyzed! They can be intelligent, are ca-
pable of normal speech production and comprehension, and are
generally not neurotic or psychotic. Nevertheless, they respond
to potential contradictions about their performance, asserting
that they moved when they didn’t by confabulating. And when,
some months later, they become aware of their paralysis, their
memorial accounts of behavior during the anosognosia period
also are confabulations. Once again, it appears that the brain-
body interaction combined with past learning results in ap-
Abnormal States
113
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 113
parently delusional accounts in which self-consistency is more
pertinent than the reports of normal witnesses.
Similarly, in a disease called Anton’s syndrome, patients
who are physiologically and behaviorally blind assert that they
can see. Somewhat related, perhaps, are cases of blindsight in
which a patient who is cortically blind in some expanse of the
visual field can nonetheless make correct decisions when asked
to guess about the identity of figures presented in that blind
portion of the field. Certain aspects of previously learned re-
sponses can also be seen in patients with prosopagnosia. These
patients may not consciously recognize their spouse’s face but
in a test of pictures containing that face will make positive
recognitions in an implicit manner. Sometimes, the conviction
of a patient can seem to be truly bizarre. In Capgras’s syn-
drome, for example, some patients show so-called reduplicative
paramnesia in which the patient will claim, for example, that
his or her mother is in fact not the real mother but is instead
an imposter.
I could go on to point out that an epileptic attack in the
temporal lobe can result in a patient’s conviction that he or she
has previously been in a place that is clearly new (déja vu) or
has had a distinct set of thoughts before (déja pensée).
I hope that the examples I have described so far make it
clear that the brain-body relationship is critical in the acquisi-
tion of knowledge and belief. Most of these syndromes repre-
Abnormal States
114
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 114
sent diseases of consciousness or attention. Perhaps most im-
portant is that the symptoms are not primarily due to early
psychic trauma, nor are the patients psychotic. (In some cases,
however, psychiatric illness can mimic such symptoms.)
Attempts to account for the confabulation in these syn-
dromes have called on damage to the so-called orbitofrontal
cortex.7
Patients in whom this brain area is damaged or iso-
lated from other connections often show a lack of responsible
behavior or an inability to plan actions. Similarly, the so-called
mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus has been associated with
spontaneous confabulation. The hypothesis has been advanced
that these two brain areas, among others, are necessary for
monitoring thoughts that are inappropriate, and when they
fail to function, confabulation ensues. What is missing from
this hypothesis is an explanation in terms of the interactions
of these brain areas with the rest of the brain.
The key conclusion for our purposes is that, even though
the detailed pathogenesis of most of these syndromes has not
been fully accounted for, no theory beyond a global theory
like Neural Darwinism appears necessary for their explanation.
Of course, a fascinating challenge remains: when certain brain
areas are damaged, to account for how a selectional brain with
reentrant thalamocortical interactions responds in the particu-
lar way that it does in terms of behavior and beliefs. A rich
source of investigation may be to explore whether reentrant
Abnormal States
115
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 115
interactions are grossly altered in these diseases, so that re-
entry among the residual cortical areas may be called on to com-
pensate for loss.
The challenge is, if anything, even greater for another set
of abnormal states, the psychoses.8
Psychoses are diseases in
which there is severe impairment of the ability to function in
everyday life and to stay in contact with reality. These dis-
eases are especially challenging to our efforts to understand
etiology and pathogenesis for, although there is evidence of
neural and chemical disorder, there is usually no gross evidence
of brain damage. Exceptions exist in cases of toxic psychosis
(for example, Korsakoff psychosis in extreme alcoholism), in
diseases such as tertiary syphilis, as well as in dementias such
as Alzheimer’s disease.
But often it is difficult to identify a specific lesion. In the
most polymorphous of psychotic diseases, schizophrenia, for
example, there is definite evidence for a polygenic mutational
origin. But there are also indications of complex environmental
contributions, the details of which are hard to disentangle. Pa-
tients with schizophrenia show a variety of florid symptoms.
These include third-person auditory hallucinations, ideas of
reference and influence, and delusions of control by alien forces.
These symptoms are often accompanied by emotional blunt-
ing and poor interpersonal rapport.
In bipolar disease, a severe mood disorder, there is evi-
dence for a pharmacological imbalance that results in the re-
Abnormal States
116
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 116
markable slowing of behavioral responses and the conscious
depression seen in full-fledged cases. But even given the entire
history, it is difficult to attribute the origin of the symptoms to
the environment alone. As in the neuropsychological disorders,
the suspicion is that no theory of personality is required spe-
cifically to account for these abnormal states. Instead, one must
identify alterations in brain mechanisms and relate them to
scientific hypotheses about brain action. For example, could
the hallucinatory and delusional symptoms of schizophrenia
be the result of distortions in reentrant timing among higher-
order core areas and nonconscious brain regions? If certain
temporal delays in linking core responses arose as the result of
physiological or microanatomical disturbances, it is conceiv-
able that a patient might confuse his or her own thoughts for
exterior voices or for malign references from without. What-
ever the case, pathogenetic explanations of the abnormal symp-
toms of psychosis do not appear to need an elaborate or all-
encompassing theory of personality.
Do we need such a theory at all? In asking this question
we arrive at the most challenging set of syndromes, grouped
rightly or wrongly under the designation “neuroses.” It was to
the understanding of this domain that Freud’s major efforts
were directed. Before 1980, neuroses were described as a broad
set of diseases, relatively mild as compared to psychoses and
without loss of contact with reality. In 1980, in the third edi-
tion of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
Abnormal States
117
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 117
(DSM-III), the American Psychiatric Association eliminated this
broad distinction and instead described each disease or syn-
drome in its own terms.
Neuroses include a number of symptom complexes. Anxi-
ety disorders include anxiety neurosis, phobic neurosis, and
obsessive-compulsive neurosis. Hysterical neuroses are cate-
gorized under somatoform disorder, comprising conversion hys-
teria, hypochondriasis, and somatization disorder, and also
under dissociative disorder, which covers dissociative hyste-
ria, psychogenic amnesia and fugue states, multiple personal-
ity, and depersonalization neurosis.
In phobic neurosis exaggerated fears of events, objects, and
bodily functions are seen, none of which is inherently danger-
ous. Patients show extreme anxiety attached to stimuli from
these sources. Specific examples include agoraphobia (fear of
public places), acrophobia (fear of heights), and claustrophobia
(fear of closed spaces). In obsessive-compulsive disorder, there
are recurrent fantasies (obsessions) or actions (compulsions) of
which the patient is aware and often tries to resist, but to no
avail. There is a bizarre recurrence of notions that the patient
cannot avoid, for example, that every third word is “dirty,”
forcing repetitive covering of the mouth with one hand. The
patient knows that this is magical thinking, and thus his or her
testing of reality is intact.
In hysterical neuroses, one sees conversion symptoms such
as apparent paralysis of certain muscle groups or limbs. In yet
Abnormal States
118
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 118
others, there are complaints of blindness or deafness. In other
cases one may observe dissociation—the loss to conscious
awareness of perceptions and memories. This may result in
amnesia or in fugue, the loss of identity and recollection of the
patient’s past life. In somatization disorders, various vague
bodily complaints such as headaches, nausea, and the like are
present in the absence of actual organic dysfunction. This syn-
drome can be distinguished from hypochondriasis, in which
the patient is convinced that he or she is suffering from a seri-
ous disease.
This is no place to detail the rich and extensive proposals
that Freud put forth to explain neuroses.9
According to the
ideas underlying psychoanalysis, neurotic symptoms result from
inner conflicts. The causes of these conflicts often arose in early
childhood from the frustration of infantile sexual drives. The
basic postulate of psychoanalysis was incorporated in the no-
tion of a dynamic unconscious mind. In neuroses, a variety of
defense mechanisms operate to keep conflicts from conscious
recall. Working to achieve conscious recognition of repressed
memories became a main aim of psychoanalytic therapy.
Underlying these ideas was an account of the triune struc-
ture of human personality consisting of the id, superego, and
ego. The id was considered to be a deep domain of the un-
conscious concerned with the gratification of instinctual drives.
The superego was considered to be the result of parental and
societal forces acting to censor or repress urges originating in
Abnormal States
119
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 119
the id. Finally, there was the ego, which mediated between the
id and the superego in confronting reality. The ego was in large
measure identified with conscious awareness. One of the chal-
lenges faced by psychoanalysts was to make the repressed
conflicts leading to neurosis available to the conscious mind—
“Where id was, there ego shall be.”
Freud proposed that dreams were reflections of covert wish
fulfillments. Along with the method of free association ap-
plied during therapy, dreams were considered to be the “royal
road” to the unconscious. In its grand formulation of person-
ality structure, unconscious conflict under repression, and its
theory of sexuality, Freud’s psychoanalytic edifice had a mas-
sive impact on psychology, social science, and literary studies.
As I pointed out before, however, the theory failed to meet a
number of criteria required for scientific verification.
Freud’s constructions, verifiable or not, touch on matters
of great import for brain-based epistemology. In the first place,
they put great emphasis on symbolization. The mechanisms
of ego defense provide a rich dissection of how an individual
can avoid confrontation with threats to his or her notion of
self. Moreover, the observation that knowledge and experi-
ence could be repressed suggested that conscious knowledge
and belief were only a small fraction of the cognitive architec-
ture of an individual. This and the felicitous use of suggestive
metaphors provided one reason for the influence of Freud’s
ideas.
Abnormal States
120
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 120
Even if we reject certain of Freud’s proposals as unscien-
tific and psychoanalytic therapy as barely efficacious, one fea-
ture stands out. Psychoanalysis, above all other psychological
practices, is concerned centrally with the history of the indi-
vidual subject, with that individual’s personal narrative, beliefs,
and styles of thought.
However laudable this effort, it prompts renewal of the
question I addressed in considering neuropsychology and psy-
chosis: Beyond a global brain theory, is a theory of abnormal
states, in this case, a theory of neurosis, possible or even nec-
essary? Could it not be that what is required is a dissection
at the level of brain function of neural mechanisms related to
consciousness, attention, automaticity in nonconscious brain
areas, and the operation of value systems?
I intend to answer the latter question in the affirmative.
Attractive as Freudian metaphors may be, they are formulated
in terms that are too removed from the structural mechanisms
revealed by studies of brain-body interactions. Although it pays
suitable attention to an individual’s history, psychoanalysis at-
tempts by means of a general theory to explain that history
with all its individuality, irreversibility, and nonlinearity. We
have seen how human history resists such general and reduc-
tive attempts. Individual history, it is true, differs from human
history in the fact that the individual person may, in real time,
render a report or record of his experience. But these, we have
seen, are subject to a series of necessary illusions. Moreover, as
Abnormal States
121
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 121
we have seen in neuropsychological syndromes, the brain re-
acts to defects by filling in and confabulation. In these cases, at
least, the problems cannot be laid at the door of psychosexual
distortions.
My remarks must not be taken as a rejection of psycho-
therapy, in the development of which Freud was a pioneer.
Given what I have said about contingencies in the history of
each individual’s development and the ambiguities of language,
scientific and causal efforts such as drug therapy need to be ac-
companied by interpersonal exchange.
What we have seen from our brief review of neuropsy-
chology, psychosis, and neurosis is the extraordinary range of
causation and response affecting different levels of brain struc-
ture. In neuropsychology, delusions can arise from gross destruc-
tion of brain areas. In psychosis, genetic and pharmacological
alterations can result in massive distortions of reality testing.
And in neuroses, functional connections between thoughts,
beliefs, and value system responses can result in disturbed be-
havior. Here we come across problems relating to the trade-off
between specificity and range in a selectional system. Early
thought is largely metaphorical, and given its associative pow-
ers it can be useful. But if the tension between metaphors in
higher-order consciousness and normative values in a culture
is given free rein, then it is perhaps not surprising that a rich
variety of emotional states and symbolic displacements lead-
Abnormal States
122
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 122
ing to symptoms can occur. If Neural Darwinism is correct,
then even in normal states, every perception is to some degree
an act of creation, and every memory is to some degree an act
of imagination. The degree is changed in psychiatric illness,
and the challenge is to understand how and why.
What about thought and thought processes? Here we may
note with approval some of the ideas of Charles Saunders Pierce,
the true founder of pragmatism. Pierce pointed out that sensa-
tions are immediately present to us as long as they last. He noted
that other elements of conscious life, for example, thoughts,
are actions having a beginning, middle, and end covering some
portion of past or future. This fits our proposal that thought
has an essential motoric component reflected in brain action
but not in actual movement. Thought, Pierce said, is “a thread
of melody running through the succession of our sensations.”10
In contrast, belief is something we are aware of that appeases
the irritation of doubt that is the motive for thinking. Belief, he
said, is a rule for action or a habit that provides both a resting
place for thought and at the same time a new starting point for
further thought.
What is needed to understand abnormal states, whether
of thought or belief, will be afforded by the validation of a
thoroughgoing brain theory such as Neural Darwinism. But
this is not enough. If we are to grasp the origins and develop-
ment of abnormal states, we also must learn more about spe-
Abnormal States
123
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 123
cific brain mechanisms at all levels, as well as about language
and higher-order consciousness. This, and not a reductive the-
ory of personality, has the potential for yielding a fuller grasp
of mental pathology and a further understanding of brain-
based epistemology.
Abnormal States
124
11edelmanCh11.106_124 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 124
twelve
Brain-Based Devices
T O W A R D A C O N S C I O U S A R T I F A C T
It is clear that there is but one substance in this world,
and that man is its ultimate expression. Compared to
monkeys and the cleverest of animals he is just as
Huygen’s planet clock is to a watch of King Julien. If
more wheels and springs are needed to show the motion
of the planets than are required for showing and
repeating hours; and if Vaucanson needed more artistry
in producing a flautist than a duck, his art would have
been even harder put to produce a “talker,” and such a
machine, especially in the hands of this new kind of
Prometheus, must no longer be thought of as impossible.
— JULIEN OFFRAY DE LA METTRIE
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 125
S O FA R , W E H AV E B E E N concerned with the biological under-
pinnings of mental life. On the assumption that we are begin-
ning to understand the brain bases of consciousness, I have ex-
plored some of the implications of that understanding for
human knowledge and experience. It is frequently but not in-
variably the case that when science uncovers basic principles
or mechanisms, engineering applications based on this knowl-
edge are developed.
Following this line of thought prompts an audacious ques-
tion that I mentioned in chapter 1: Is it possible to construct a
conscious artifact? As I noted in that chapter, the existence of
such an artifact would have important consequences for our
epistemological concerns. Indeed, of all the consequences of
our understanding of the mechanisms of consciousness, a con-
scious artifact would have the largest effect.
If previous experience is any guide, we can answer our
question in the affirmative. We do not know how long it would
take to build such a device, but we can consider certain con-
straints and draw some conclusions about the possible success
of such an enterprise. The constraints we must consider are re-
lated to the special characteristics of the brain systems under-
lying consciousness. We must not ignore a number of funda-
mental properties of the brain. First, we must not forget that
the brain is a selectional system. Second, we must pay atten-
tion to the observation that the brain is embodied and there-
fore the brain and the body interact critically with each other.
Brain-Based Devices
126
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 126
Moreover, both are embedded in the real world, which obvi-
ously has an enormous influence on their dynamics. Third, we
know that the reentrant thalamocortical core has enormous
complexity involving both integrated and differentiated states.
(The unitary scene requires integration in the dynamic core,
whereas successive core states are differentiable from each
other.) Last, there is a question concerning composition and
structure: Would a conscious artifact have to be composed of
the same chemical components as are possessed by a conscious
human brain?
Before considering how an artifact must meet the major
constraints I have just outlined, let me dispose of this last ques-
tion. The position that the proposed artifact must be made of
biochemical components is known as biological chauvinism.
The other extreme, which can be termed extreme liberalism,
assumes that “hardware,” the chemical makeup of the brain,
doesn’t matter because the brain, being a computer, may run
purely as software on a virtual machine. It will come as no sur-
prise that I reject both of these positions. Instead, I claim that
it would be sufficient to embed the structures that entail con-
scious experience, under the constraints I listed above, in what-
ever material that would adequately meet their functional re-
quirements. The central idea is that it is the overall structure
and dynamics, not the material, of an artifact (whether con-
scious or not) that must resemble those of real brains in order
to function. This requirement has already been met by the
Brain-Based Devices
127
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 127
design and construction at The Neurosciences Institute of a se-
ries of brain-based devices (called by their inventors BBDs).1
Though far from exhibiting conscious behavior, these real-
world devices are capable of perceptual categorization, learning,
and conditioning without instruction. They are even beginning
to display episodic memory, a characteristic of hippocampal
function, and as a result, they can autonomously locate them-
selves and designated targets in a real-world scene.
I will describe these brain-based devices at some length,
but first I want to contrast their design with invented machines
and with robots and summarize human efforts to use machines
and animal species to accomplish various tasks. What will be
clear from such a survey is that, in the past, no assumptions
about conscious machines were entertained during such efforts.
More variably, it may have been the case from time to time
that the animals helping humans in various efforts were as-
sumed to be conscious. But this assumption was secondary to
the notion that these animals were capable of trained behavior.
From the times of the great pyramids, humans used simple
machines and animals. What might be called passive or infor-
mational machines were also used, for example in early astro-
nomical observations. Whether passive or active, a machine
was a device designed or formed to carry out a specific func-
tion or task. Beyond the use of levers and wheeled devices and
before the invention of more intricate machines, two animal
Brain-Based Devices
128
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 128
species, horses and dogs (and more rarely, oxen and elephants
for pulling and lifting), were trained to perform tasks of loco-
motion and herding. After the steam engine was applied to
railroads and the Otto cycle engine to automobiles, the horse
was only rarely employed in locomotion.
The application of sophisticated machines expanded greatly
with the invention of communication devices—the telegraph,
the telephone, radio, and television. And, of course, the ex-
plosion of applications that emerged from the invention of
the digital computer, fueled by solid-state physics and micro-
electronics, continues to affect our lives.
In some sense, one may conclude that the digital computer,
arguably the most interesting invention of the twentieth cen-
tury, is the quintessential machine. Turing’s demonstration that
one can envision a universal Turing machine, one that can suc-
cessfully carry out any sequence of computations based on ef-
fective procedures is a spectacular generalization of the idea of
a machine.2
Why cannot we consider Alan Turing’s theories to apply
grosso modo to the brain? We have already discussed that in brain
development, a certain amount of dice tossing occurs; this is
incompatible with Turing machine structure. Furthermore, the
world confronted by the body and brain is not unambiguous
(and so fails to meet the requirement for a sequence of algo-
rithms or effective procedures). Brains must therefore operate
Brain-Based Devices
129
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 129
ex post facto by selection from repertoires of variants. A brain-
based device must therefore also operate by selection as it con-
fronts shifting contexts in the real world.
We may well ask, Why could we not meet the need for
behavior in the real world by constructing a robot? A robot
can be defined as a “programmable multifunctional device de-
signed to manipulate or transport parts, tools, or specialized
implements through variable patterns for the performance of
specific tasks.”3
The development of robotics from the late
1940s to the present has been truly impressive, and major in-
dustries concerned with manufacturing and control have paid
increasing attention to the further development of these de-
vices. The hope, of course, is to construct a fully autonomous
robot, one that could successfully navigate an environment to
carry out a variety of tasks, including interaction with people,
just as horses and herding dogs did in the past. So far this idea
has not been realized, although some successful steps have
been made. Still, such devices are not based on the brain in any
degree and are certainly not based on neuroanatomy driven by
selectional principles.
What then are the possibilities of constructing devices based
on such principles? Attempts to answer that question have
prompted the construction of the brain-based devices that I
mentioned above. The motivating idea behind the construc-
tion of brain-based devices was a general one related to the
problem of determining how the brain works. Clearly the so-
Brain-Based Devices
130
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 130
lution of that problem will continue to depend on experiments
on living animals of a variety of species behaving in real chal-
lenging environments. Just such experiments have led to the
enormous expansion of knowledge in modern neuroscience.
But there is a limit that is methodological and eventually even
ethical: in a single live animal, we cannot simultaneously (or
even sequentially) examine all brain and bodily events ranging
across levels from molecules to behavior. Without this ability,
it is difficult and sometimes impossible to grasp the multilevel
interactions necessary for understanding the origins of com-
plex neural responses and behavior. If, however, we could
build a brain-based device whose workings can be followed in
all details, it might be possible to gain insights into multilevel
brain events and their interactions with behavior.
This possibility has driven a twelve-year program at The
Neurosciences Institute, where scientists and engineers con-
structed real-world behaving devices that performed autono-
mously in an environment, guided by simulated brains whose
structure and dynamics are based on selectional principles. In
this program, a series of brain-based devices has been realized;
the successive artifacts have been named after Darwin. To give
some notion of their design, I will consider the structure and
performance of three of the more recent devices: Darwin VII,
Darwin VIII, and Darwin X. (See figure 3 for a photo of Dar-
win VII.)4
The brains of these devices are simulated in a powerful
Brain-Based Devices
131
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 131
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 132
[To view this image, refer to
the print version of this title.]
computer array. Brain responses are transmitted by wireless
links to the body or “phenotype” of the behaving device named
NOMAD (neurally organized mobile adaptive device). The ac-
tual phenotype can be altered to include a variety of sensors
present on a wheeled platform capable of exploring an envi-
ronment having varying characteristics. Most NOMAD plat-
forms contain a charge-coupled device camera for vision, two
microphones embedded in structures for hearing, a gripper
capable of grabbing blocks with different visual patterns on
them, and, in some cases, whiskerlike protuberances capable
of distinguishing surfaces with different degrees of roughness
The environments in which various Darwins perform consist
of rooms ranging from ten feet by twelve feet to rooms as long
as twenty feet, with black floors and enclosures that are illumi-
nated by overhead lights. In this type of environment, NOMAD
platforms traverse various paths autonomously in response to
visual, auditory, and tactile signals.
Brain-Based Devices
133
Figure 3.
The brain-based device Darwin VII has learned on its own to pick
up and “taste” striped blocks and avoid blocks with blob patterns.
It has a charge-coupled device camera for visual input, microphones
on the two “ears” for auditory input, and a row of infrared sensors
to avoid collisions. The gripper shown grabbing the striped block
can sense conductivity (“taste”) and pick up blocks that it
encounters in its travels. Its simulated brain is based on
vertebrate nervous systems, and it operates by selection
rather than instruction.
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 133
The simulated brains consist of definite neuroanatomical
areas based, for example, on the mammalian visual cortex, in-
ferotemporal cortex, auditory cortex, and somatosensory cor-
tex (see figure 1). The neuronal units making up these areas are
connected synaptically, and the weights of the connections be-
tween the various units are generally modifiable according to
a rule for modeling changes in synaptic strength. In addition,
the simulated anatomical circuitry contains the equivalent of
value systems modeled on those seen in real brains. These are
essential to constrain the selectional responses of a particular
Darwin’s brain both to its own signals and to those from the
environment.
The neuronal units respond according to a mean firing-
rate model; in this model, each unit represents the collective
responses of a group of approximately one hundred neurons.
These responses drive a series of motor outputs that impel ex-
ploratory or reactive movements of the Darwin in question.
At this point, let us consider Darwin VII.
Before training, Darwin VII traversed its environment by
a series of exploratory moves. When drawn by its visual re-
sponse, it approached blocks having top portions covered by
vertical or horizontal stripes or by blobs. When sufficiently
close, the brain-based device would attempt to “taste” a proxi-
mal block with its gripper. “Taste” was defined by the experi-
menter as low conductance (the gripper being able to measure
that variable on contact) or as high conductance. Arbitrarily, low
Brain-Based Devices
134
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 134
conductance led to activity in the value system that resulted in
aversive movements, whereas high conductance prompted ap-
petitive movements and grasping of the block by the gripper.
With these constraints and without instruction, exemplars
of Darwin VII would initially grasp both “good” and “bad”
tasting blocks. Within short order, however, it became condi-
tioned to lift and taste only “good” striped blocks and to avoid
“bad” tasting blocks with blobs. If the blocks with blobs emit-
ted a low tone, Darwin VII could be conditioned secondarily
to avoid such blocks while approaching, but it would “taste”
striped blocks that emitted high tones.
During all of this primary and secondary conditioning, the
experimenter could record the totality of responses in Darwin
VII’s nervous system, which contained twenty-five thousand
neuronal groups and half a million synapses. It was found, for
example, that an area simulating the inferotemporal cortex
would respond with an activity pattern of neuronal groups that
was characteristic and relatively invariant in the responses to
striped blocks, whatever their position in space. This pattern
shifted to a new and different one for responses to blobs. The
invariance developed only after complete rounds of actual
movement and behavior characteristic of that individual Darwin
VII. Another individual starting from the same anatomy would
develop its own characteristic and unique “inferotemporal”
patterns! The brains of these brain-based devices, like our own
selectional brains, developed individual activity patterns that
Brain-Based Devices
135
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 135
nonetheless tended to result in behavioral responses that were
similar among different individuals.
With this background, I will very briefly describe the be-
havior of two other brain-based devices, Darwin VIII and
Darwin X. Darwin VIII resembled Darwin VII, but its nervous
system had an additional feature: reentry. The presence of re-
entrant long-range connections enabled it to distinguish among
multiple potentially confusing objects of different colors and
shapes. Confronted with green square-shaped objects and red
diamond-shaped objects of the same size on one wall and red
and green squares on the opposite wall, it was able to turn
selectively to a green square on either wall on the basis of
having received a positive auditory value signal accompanying
its vision of a green square. It was able to make this distinc-
tion because reentry enabled it to solve the binding problem—
how different brain areas can synchronize and integrate their
segregated functions in the absence of an executive area. It
correctly associated green color and square shape by the syn-
chronous firing of selected neuronal groups in the inferotem-
poral area of its simulated brain.
Darwin X incorporated another critical brain region, the
hippocampus, as well as many more neuronal groups and
synapses. The groups numbered over one hundred thousand
with two and a half million synapses among them. The hippo-
campus in animals is responsible for episodic memory, the
Brain-Based Devices
136
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 136
long-term memory of sequences of events. It is also respon-
sible for an animal’s ability (for example, a rat’s) to locate itself
in space on the bases of cues received from the environment.
Placing a rat in the so-called Morris water maze, for example,
will impel the rat to swim in milky water until it inadvertently
finds a hidden platform upon which it may rest from the ap-
parently unpleasant experience of undirected swimming. Its
hippocampus allows it to remember visual cues from the sur-
rounding walls. On being placed again in any part of the pool,
the rat can swim rather directly to the hidden platform. This
is based in part on the activity of so-called place cells in the
hippocampus, and a series of interactions between the hippo-
campus and the cerebral cortex.
Darwin X was placed in a similar situation but without
water. Instead there is a black-filled circle of different reflec-
tance than the black floor on which the device moves. The
brain-based device cannot see this circle but can detect it when
it stands over it as the result of an infrared detector sensing the
circle’s reflectance and sending a positive value signal to its brain.
Each of the four walls of the enclosure in which Darwin X
moves contains different-colored stripes in distinctive arrange-
ments. After patrolling the enclosure, Darwin X remembers
these patterns. Following the experience of a few episodes of
positive value after coming on the target circle, it will more or
less directly head to the circle no matter where the device is
Brain-Based Devices
137
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 137
initially placed in the enclosure. In fact, the device’s simulated
hippocampus develops characteristic place cells in a fashion
similar to those of living animals, for example, rats.
Clearly, the performance of brain-based devices is encour-
aging, even if their development is still at an early stage. Sev-
eral aspects of the behavior of these devices must be put in
perspective. First of all, they are not robots as defined previ-
ously. Their behavior is not preprogrammed according to a fixed
sequence of algorithms. It is true that their brains are simu-
lated inside powerful computer clusters, but no target function
is prescribed or prespecified and the initial synaptic strengths
in the brain are set at random. Instead of having a defined
program, the brains of the devices are built to have neuro-
anatomical structures and neuronal dynamics modeled on
those known to have arisen during animal evolution and de-
velopment. Furthermore, they are situated in an environment
that allows them to make any of a number of movements to
sample various signal sequences. Moreover, although their
“species-specific” pattern is constrained by “inherited” value,
value is not equivalent to category. Instead, the Darwin de-
vices develop perceptual categories on the basis of their expe-
riences in the real world, and they build appropriate memory
systems in response.
Notice that the performance of brain-based devices speaks
against both extremes of chauvinism and liberalism. These de-
vices are not made of biochemical components. Moreover,
Brain-Based Devices
138
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 138
they are not just software running a virtual machine. Even
though they are not alive, they can carry out conditioning, per-
ceptual discrimination, and episodic memory in a fashion that
involves circuit dynamics resembling those observed in the
brains of living animals.
This brings us back to the query with which we started:
Is it possible to construct a conscious artifact? Is it necessary
that to be conscious such an artifact must be living? A living
system may be considered as one capable of self-replication
that is subject to natural selection. If BBDs (which are presently
far from meeting the requirements of conscious systems) are
any guide, a tentative answer would be that a conscious arti-
fact would not necessarily have to be alive. Given the presence
of a body with sensory and motor systems, what would be
necessary is a high degree of complexity in the simulated equiva-
lent of a thalamocortical system interacting with a basal gan-
glion system. That complexity is presently unrealizable.
Aside from such structural limitations, there is an addi-
tional requirement if reasonable criteria indicating conscious
behavior are to be satisfied. Such an artifact would have to
have a true language, one with syntax as well as semantics. In
other words, it would have to have a form of higher-order
consciousness. Only with that trait, capable of giving us re-
ports, could we experimentally test brain function with results
sufficient to support the conclusion that the artifact was likely
to be conscious.
Brain-Based Devices
139
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 139
This goal is remote at present. Nonetheless, it is of some
interest to consider what an artifact, having the high dimen-
sional discrimination that is characteristic of a conscious brain,
would provide in its reports about the patterns and consisten-
cies present in the physical world. Would it report consistencies
similar to those of our physics? Or, given its phenotype, would
it carve up the world in ways more similar to those seen in
neuropsychological disorders?
Whatever the case, if such an entity were devised, it would
be fascinating to explore whether it could be incorporated into
a hybrid machine, a perception-Turing machine.5
Such a hy-
brid would combine the strengths of syntactic machines, such
as computers based on human programming, with the seman-
tic abilities of an artifact able to deal with novelty and non-
computable inputs.
I suggest that someday a conscious artifact could proba-
bly be built. But it remains a remote goal. Even if that goal is
reached, such a device would hardly challenge our unique-
ness. Remember that the brain is embodied and that we are
embedded in an econiche and culture that could hardly be du-
plicated or even imitated. The human phenotype with all its
complexity is what fuels our particular qualia. The likelihood
of matching such a phenotype verges on zero. The precious
qualities of our own phenomenal state are safe from preemp-
tion or displacement.
Given our present restrictions, we may sidestep an ethical
Brain-Based Devices
140
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 140
question: What would human responsibilities be, for example,
in removing such an artifact’s capacities for consciousness
after it has accumulated experience and developed a unique
identity. This issue, which certainly does not have to be faced
now, relates to the instrumental and moral value of human
knowledge itself.
Brain-Based Devices
141
12edelmanCh12.125_141 7/22/06 1:58 PM Page 141
thirteen
Second Nature
T H E T R A N S F O R M A T I O N O F K N O W L E D G E
In my end is my beginning.
— T. S. ELIOT
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 142
W E A R E PA RT O F N AT U R E A N D are embedded in it in ways
that Darwin successfully described. But often in our heads
we have ways of looking at the world that “feel natural” or
“are second nature” even in the face of scientific evidence to
the contrary. Do the two natures have to be reconciled? Some,
hewing exclusively to the imaginative side or to art, would
say, “not necessarily.” Others, in the camp of extreme scien-
tific reductionism, would say that ultimately all subjects that
are products of the mind should be reducible to explanations
based in brain science, to so-called epigenetic rules.
Clearly the path I have pursued here differs from both of
these positions. I have searched for a reconciliation by exam-
ining how the pinnacle of our mental life, consciousness, arose
in the course of evolution. An examination of the biological
bases of consciousness reveals it to be based in a selectional
system. This provides grounds for understanding the complex-
ity, the irreversibility, and the historical contingency of our
phenomenal experience. These properties, which affect how
we know, rule out an all-inclusive reduction to scientific de-
scription of certain products of our mental life such as art and
ethics. But this does not mean that we have to invoke strange
physical states, dualism, or panpsychism to explain the origin
of conscious qualia. All of our mental life, reducible and irre-
ducible, is based on the structure and dynamics of our brain.
Darwin was right in rejecting Wallace’s conclusion that the
human mind could not have arisen by natural selection.1
In-
Second Nature
143
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 143
deed, as I hope to have shown, a set of evolutionary events
produced the neuroanatomical bases for reentry, which led to
the development of the enormous number of discriminatory
states, or qualia, characteristic of conscious experience.
The methodological limits that are imposed by the com-
plex properties of the reentrant thalamocortical core do not
prevent us from studying neural correlates of consciousness.
But no amount of experiments on such correlates will in itself
provide a basis for understanding how qualia arise. As I hope
to have shown, that understanding must be achieved by logi-
cal and linguistic analyses within brain-based epistemology.
The adaptive advantages provided by the evolution of the
neuronal arrangements in the dynamic core are evident. The
activity of such neuronal arrangements allowed an animal to
make an enormous number of discriminations among both in-
ternal and external states and across a variety of modalities.
Qualia, which are those discriminations, differ relative to each
other because they originate from the integrative interactions
of quite different neural arrangements. Planning of adaptive
responses by conscious animals was enhanced by these means.
Although we do not know what it is like to be a bat in the
same way we know (by experience and homology) what it is
like to be human, we may reasonably surmise that in its dis-
criminations, a bat’s core state will be as dominated by echolo-
cation as ours tends to be by vision.
A key issue concerns the efficacy of our conscious experi-
Second Nature
144
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 144
ence. The problem of relating neuronal action to phenomenal
subjective experience is solved by a causal analysis. Qualia are
entailed by states of core neurons acting to yield complex inte-
grative states that can shift to yield new states and conscious
scenes. Qualia are thus no more caused by neural states than is
the spectrum of hemoglobin caused by that protein’s structure—
its so-called Soret spectrum is entailed by its molecular struc-
ture. In the case of core systems in the brain, the relationship
of entailment is a faithful one even if it is degenerate. That is,
everything else being equal, the same core state will not entail
radically different qualia.
Qualia are not themselves causal, and to assume otherwise
would go against the laws of physics. But there is no need for
that to be the case, given the fidelity and causal efficacy of core
states that we have called C. The corresponding qualia that we
may call C are informative even if they are not causal. Indeed,
at present, because we lack the means of fully detailing the
hyperastronomical interactions of core neurons, C provides
the only indicator we have of any overall core state, C. Indeed,
our methodological inability to reduce to cellular or molecular
terms the mental or conscious events accompanying fields such
as ethics and aesthetics that emerge when we speak “C lan-
guage” to each other should not be construed as arising from
the existence of some radically inaccessible domain.
In the view put forward here, even given the irreducibil-
ity of certain subjective conscious experiences, we can under-
Second Nature
145
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 145
stand how our second nature arises from scientifically describ-
able foundations. Although it is true that a scientific descrip-
tion of the world hews more closely to the structure of that
world than do our daily impressions, our account of how the
brain works suggests that scientific hypotheses themselves
emerge from ambiguous (and occasionally irreducible) proper-
ties that give rise to pattern recognition. The brain structures
and dynamics leading to such properties are scientifically de-
scribable, even if the properties themselves cannot be fully re-
duced. Similar considerations apply to the cultural exchanges
that give rise to art and to ethics, the relationships of which are
not entirely subject to rigorous scientific reduction. No limita-
tion of our potential is implied by this view. Creative match-
ing of social experience, developments in art, and expansion of
our knowledge in all spheres have no obvious limit.
Globally speaking, scientific observations and theory can
provide descriptions of the brain events that result in such ac-
tivities. The grand sequence—Big Bang, cosmos, galaxies,
Earth, origin of life, evolution, mammalian brains, hominid
core development, language, Galilean science, relativity and
quantum mechanics, modern neuroscience, neural bases of
consciousness—may eventually be able to explain the back-
ground, if not the details, of individual subjective histories.
These histories are recursively embedded in such a sequence
and they account for its human products. They derive ultimately
Second Nature
146
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 146
from natural selection. This grand view fills in the Galilean arc
and helps to complete Darwin’s program.
How does this view, derived from brain-based epistemol-
ogy, differ from that of Quine? Quine, as I mentioned at the
beginning of this book, considered consciousness a mystery
but correctly took it to be a property of the body. He rejected
the Cartesian dream of scientific certainty. Instead he proposed
that epistemology be naturalized in terms of stimulation of our
sensory receptors by signals from the external world, without
denying the senses themselves. In this way, he suggested,
quite fruitfully, that philosophical and logical analyses could
be linked to science. He limited his consideration to sensory
receptors and did not concern himself with mental life, be-
cause he felt that introducing intentionality into a scientific
theory of the world would destroy “the crystalline purity of
extensionality: that is, the substitutivity of identity.”2
In taking
this position, he did not, however, exclude the scientific ex-
ploration of intentional issues. I suspect that he recognized the
limitations in knowledge of his time and that, had he had
knowledge of consciousness research as we do, he would have
expanded his domain.
Thanks to modern neuroscience, many of these limita-
tions have been removed. Franz Brentano’s notion of inten-
tionality, the observation that conscious states are generally
about objects or events, can be explained by the extended the-
Second Nature
147
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 147
ory of Neural Darwinism.3
Consciousness is proposed to arise
initially as a result of perceptual categorization in interaction
with memory systems. By its nature, such categorization,
though unconscious, is necessarily about objects and events.
In my opinion, we do not destroy the crystalline purity of
Quine’s proposal by going beyond sensory receptors. Rather,
we may extend it into domains excluded from traditional epis-
temology. It is true that the approach I have taken to the sub-
ject does not maintain the sharp boundary between psychology
and epistemology that is maintained by some. I find this to be
an advantage: with this approach, we can usefully consider the
origin of logic in language, the contribution of imaginative pat-
tern recognition to mathematics, the historical and ideational
origins of scientific empiricism, and all manner of artistic and
normative issues. Of course, the boundaries separating all of
these domains must be specified. But we will no longer consider
the origins of true justified belief to lie only in language, however
central language is to higher-order consciousness. Essentially,
accepting brain-based epistemology amounts to accepting em-
pirical data from neuroscience as well as psychology to but-
tress our views of the origin and nature of human knowledge.
That acceptance does not imply that brain-based episte-
mology is exhaustive or that it excludes scientifically grounded
normative functions related to epistemological concerns. The
main strength of the brain-based approach is that it provides
scientific grounds for a pluralistic view of truth. At the same
Second Nature
148
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 148
time, it supplies useful constraints on how we attain knowl-
edge. By including a scientific view of consciousness, it rejects
the position that naturalism undermines first-person author-
ity, the illusion of conscious will. Given its position on the ori-
gins of language and the effects of culture, the brain-based
view has no problem with normative judgments that go be-
yond the justification posited by traditional epistemology. It is
entirely compatible, for example, with proposals that a major
goal of epistemology is to set up norms that assure excellence
in reasoning.4
Truth, though heterogeneous in its origins, is itself nor-
mative and thus worth caring about.5
Establishing truth re-
quires many different means and methodologies. These can-
not be traced directly back to evolution or the physiology of
the brain.6
One of the main messages of this book is that, al-
though we must recognize that evolution and neuronal group
selection provide the bases and constraints for the acquisition
of knowledge, historical, sociocultural, and linguistic factors
set up normative criteria for truth.7
A key point is that these
criteria can, by these means, be established in a naturalized
fashion.
By analyzing consciousness in scientific terms, Neural Dar-
winism rejects Cartesian foundationalism and dualism. Physics
and biology can live together while recognizing that each has
its historical origins in human experience. A word about the
relation of that experience to the scientific enterprise may be
Second Nature
149
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 149
useful. Following hominid evolution and the coevolution of
culture, it became possible to develop experimental and theoreti-
cal physics, initially evoked most clearly in the work of Galileo.
Scientific observers and experimentalists then developed de-
scriptions that led to the formulation of general laws. It must
be emphasized that those descriptions are not the events de-
scribed. Despite the power of prediction and invention pro-
vided by science, it does not duplicate the world.
Furthermore, after Darwin, when it became possible to
apply global scientific approaches to brain function and con-
sciousness, a similar limit became apparent: The scientific de-
scription is not the experience. Of course, the description of
consciousness helps us to understand our experience in a way
that physics alone could not do. Nevertheless, it is important
to recognize the priority of experience in giving rise to the de-
scriptions that illuminate the bases of that experience itself.
Once higher-order consciousness and language operate re-
cursively to connect thought, emotion, memory, and experi-
ence, the number of discriminative combinations grows with-
out bound. We move in corridors of the mind ranging from the
certainties of mathematical insight to the fantasies of A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream. Often, the parts of our second nature that
seem to deviate most from the truth are just those necessary
to establish new truths. But of course, they are not sufficient.
Various criteria must be applied to establish each kind of truth.
The main point is that truth is not a given, it is a value that
Second Nature
150
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 150
must be worked for during our personal and interpersonal inter-
actions. The richness of those interactions is no surprise given
the associativity and degeneracy of reentrant interactions in the
brain.
If, in our scientific descriptions of world events and of con-
sciousness, we do not duplicate either the events or the expe-
rience, is that personal experience a form of knowledge? Given
the range that is covered by higher-order consciousness and
despite its subjectivity, we must admit that qualia are indeed
discriminative forms of knowledge. By including myriad pos-
sibilities of pattern recognition, metaphor, and complexity, such
knowledge goes beyond the formalities of justified true belief.
If we adhere to this language game, we must qualify the
connection between knowledge and truth. In this view knowl-
edge and truth are not the same. Taking this position would
admit that individual creative experience and even psychiatric
alterations are kinds of knowledge. Certainly the exchanges
experienced in reacting to art can be so considered. Admittedly,
while realizing various aspects of truth as they emerge during
intersubjective exchange, we are inclined to discount or at least
limit such a broad view. But since truth is generated through
various forms of knowledge, we must at least admit to some
aspects of this lenient view.
There is a related issue. Suppose an individual actually
knew in detail how his or her brain works. Would we expect
that person to abandon his or her reactions to others in terms
Second Nature
151
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 151
of propositional attitudes—beliefs, desires, and intentions? I
think not. But knowledge of the workings of the brain might
at least give that person the ability to reject preposterous as-
sumptions and cant.
At this point, we may further illuminate these issues by
setting out a brief summary of the premises of brain-based epis-
temology. A key question is related to that of A. J. Ayer: How
can a system of perceptions be developed and serve as a basis
of belief?8
I would revise this question to add beyond the word
“perceptions” the phrase “and an account of consciousness.”
Ayer has also stated that to know is to be able to perform. This
pragmatic statement is good as far as it goes, but it must be
modified to include knowledge of moods, for example, where
performance is not the issue. Let us see how the premises of
brain-based epistemology might lead to useful answers.
First, brain-based epistemology accepts physics and evo-
lutionary biology as essential platforms upon which to base its
assertions. It therefore rejects idealist accounts, dualism, pan-
psychism, and any notion of mental representations proposed
without grounding in brain structure. Brain-based epistemol-
ogy contends that our knowledge is neither a direct copy of
our experience nor a direct transfer from our memorial states.
Nevertheless, it is entirely compatible with the construction of
logical systems on the basis of language and experience, as
well as of mathematics as a study of stable mental objects.
It is striking, but perhaps not surprising, that the episte-
Second Nature
152
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 152
mology of modern physical science is somewhat noncommit-
tal on these issues. By contrast, brain-based epistemology is
not noncommittal about the perceiver, who historically and
creatively is prior to the science of physics. It is true that we
may explain the evolutionary origin of that perceiver by sci-
entific means. But Neural Darwinism and natural selection only
provide grounds for a series of actual historical and cultural
events that affect our knowledge and behavior. Certainly, any-
one accepting the tenets of Neural Darwinism and the notions
explored here would find it difficult fully to accept the pro-
posals of evolutionary epistemology and the ideas of evolu-
tionary psychology, for both fields are excessively reductive.
We do not inherit a language of thought. Instead, concepts
are developed from the brain’s mapping of its own perceptual
maps. Ultimately, therefore, concepts are initially about the
world. Thought itself is based on brain events resulting from
the activity of motor regions, activity that does not get con-
veyed to produce action. It is a premise of brain-based episte-
mology that subcortical structures such as the basal ganglia
are critical in assuring the sequence of such brain events, yield-
ing a kind of presyntax. So thought can occur in the absence
of language. In its earliest form, thought is dependent on meta-
phorical modes and what linguist George Lakoff and philo-
sopher Mark Johnson have called image schemata.9
This meta-
phorical activity is strongly buttressed by the associative power
of degenerate circuits in the brain. Of course, with the acqui-
Second Nature
153
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 153
sition of language, these powers are enormously expanded. In
either case, our brain with its capabilities of pattern recogni-
tion, closure, and filling in, goes, as Jerome Bruner pointed out,
beyond the information given.10
According to brain-based epistemology, the achievement
of logic, and to some degree of mathematics, depended on
higher-order consciousness, which itself depended for its fullest
expression on the acquisition of a true language. The view of
brain-based epistemology is that, after the evolution of a bipedal
posture, of a supralaryngeal space, of presyntax for movement
in the basal ganglia, and of an enlarged cerebral cortex, lan-
guage arose as an invention. The theory rejects the notion of a
brain-based, genetically inherited, language acquisition device.
Instead, it contends that language acquisition is epigenetic. Its
acquisition and its spread across speech communities would
obviously favor its possessors over nonlinguistic hominids even
though no direct inheritance of a universal grammar is at issue.
Of course, hominids using language could then be further fa-
vored by natural selection acting on those systems of learning
that favor language skills.
What about the “world” of such linguistically able indi-
viduals? What is objective and what is subjective? Brain-based
epistemology, having rejected idealism, accepts a position of
qualified realism.11
Its realism is qualified by its recognition of
our phenotypic limits. Constraints on our evolved body types,
and our brain as a selectional system, clearly allow only a lim-
Second Nature
154
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 154
ited sampling of world events, the density of which is enor-
mous. We have already considered the fact that the variation
in a selectional brain is to some degree independent of the ac-
tual selective events that act to modify the synaptic strengths
of particular neuronal groups. There are no infallible or incor-
rigible mental states in the operation of normal brains. We can
even be in error about a phenomenal state—a hallucination
can have content but no object. Moreover, we have already
discussed the tendency of brain action to find closure, to pro-
duce filling in, and to confabulate if necessary. Furthermore,
we are possessed of certain necessary illusions. One example
is what I have called the Heraclitean illusion—that perceived
time is a movement of a period or point progressing from the
past through the present to the future. But in fact, the past and
the future are concepts; only the remembered present can be
linked immediately to actual events in Einsteinian space-time.
Underlying all of these properties is the causal activity of
the brain’s reentrant thalamocortical system or dynamic core, the
complex integrative neural patterns of which entail conscious-
ness. Together with the activity of nonconscious systems, these
patterns give rise to learning, memory, and behavior. Behav-
iorism, philosophical and otherwise, is rejected by brain-based
epistemology, which considers that mental acts are conscious.
This does not imply that nonconscious brain systems do not
have structures and dynamics that interact with and influence
the dynamic core. In this respect, Freud’s views of unconscious
Second Nature
155
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 155
sources of behavior were premonitory.12 Indeed, the rich in-
teractions of subcortical systems with memory systems in the
cortex produce local world events that obviously would never
have occurred had conscious organisms such as ourselves not
arisen in evolution.
What has emerged from this neural substrate of higher-
order consciousness are domains of artistic creation, ethical
systems, and a scientific worldview that places us in the order
of things. This view provides a source of verifiable truth that
enables us to study the brain as the necessary organ for the
understanding of all forms of truth. Brain-based epistemology
rejects the notion, however, that art, aesthetics, and ethics can
be reduced to a series of epigenetic rules of brain action.13
The fact that scientific reduction is not exhaustive is no
loss. As I have said before, science is imagination in the service
of the verifiable truth. Its ultimate power, of course, is in under-
standing, and as we see around us, its reach in technology is
stunning. But the brain origins of imagination in science do not
differ from those necessary for poetry, music, or the building
of ethical systems. On the model of Neural Darwinism, which
recognizes the historical and creative dimensions of human
thought, no divorce is necessary between science and the
humanities.
Science derives from a variety of cultural events and it
generally does not necessarily impel or predict such events.
But although scientific theory is necessarily underdetermined,
Second Nature
156
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 156
it is as good as we can get. It provides us with the structural
conditions of the world’s being and of our being, and of how
we know them. We can confidently expect that its latest ex-
cursion into the analysis of consciousness will further reveal
the origins and limits of our second nature, even as it expands
and transforms our vision of human knowledge.
Second Nature
157
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 157
13edelmanCh13.142_158 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 158
Notes
INTRODUCTION
1. H. Adams, The Education of Henry Adams, chap. 25, 379.
2. Quine, Ontological Relativity and Other Essays, chap. 3.
3. Quine, Quiddities, 132–133.
4. James, “Does Consciousness Exist?”
one
THE GALILEAN ARC AND DARWIN’S PROGRAM
1. Whitehead, Science and the Modern World, 2.
2. Darwin, On the Origin of Species.
3. An excellent account is given in Mayr, Growth of Biological Thought.
4. Descartes, “Discourse on the Method” and “Meditations on First
Philosophy.”
5. Schrödinger, Mind and Matter.
6. For a good view of all of these matters, see Heil, Philosophy of Mind.
7. Alfred Wallace, the codiscoverer of the theory of natural selec-
tion, wrote to Darwin in 1869 expressing what to Darwin was a
heretical view. Wallace asserted that the mind and brain of man
could not have arisen by natural selection, arguing from the fact
that the brains of savages were almost as large as those of En-
glishmen even though savages were incapable of abstract
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 159
thought. Darwin wrote back, saying, “I hope that you have not
murdered too completely your child and my own.” See Kottler,
“Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace.” For a fine account of
the background, see Richards, Darwin and the Emergence of Evolu-
tionary Theories of Mind and Behavior.
8. Edelman, Bright Air, Brilliant Fire, 188.
two
CONSCIOUSNESS, BODY, AND BRAIN
1. Edelman, Neural Darwinism. See also my article “Neural Darwin-
ism” in Neuron. Both are extensions of the theory first put forth
in Edelman and Mountcastle, The Mindful Brain. All of these are
heavy-going, scholarly works describing a global theory of brain
function that has received increasing support over the years. See
the books on consciousness below for an abbreviated account.
2. For a brief account, see Edelman, Wider Than the Sky. More exten-
sive discussions may be found in Edelman, The Remembered Pres-
ent, and Edelman and Tononi, A Universe of Consciousness.
3. For an early account, see Reeke and Edelman, “Real Brains and Arti-
ficial Intelligence.” See also Searle, Minds, Brains, and Science. A fur-
ther discussion may be found in my book Bright Air, Brilliant Fire, 211.
three
SELECTIONISM
1. Mayr, The Growth of Biological Thought, gives an excellent discus-
sion of population thinking.
2. A brief account of the immune system and the theory of clonal
Notes to Pages 10–26
160
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 160
selection is given in Edelman, Bright Air, Brilliant Fire, chap. 8, “The
Sciences of Recognition.”
3. Edelman, Neural Darwinism; Edelman, Wider Than the Sky.
4. This concept is the most challenging one in the theory of neu-
ronal group selection. A simplified account can be found in Edel-
man, Wider Than the Sky.
5. A scholarly review of the dopamine reward system is Unglass,
“Dopamine.”
6. See Edelman, Neural Darwinism; Edelman, Bright Air, Brilliant Fire;
and Edelman, The Remembered Present.
7. This biologically important concept is discussed in my various
books. A brief but intensive account is given in Edelman and
Gally, “Degeneracy and Complexity in Biological Systems.”
four
FROM BRAIN ACTIVITY TO CONSCIOUSNESS
1. This extension of Neural Darwinism or the TNGS is covered in
detail in the three books already cited: Edelman, The Remembered
Present; Edelman, Wider Than the Sky; and Edelman and Tononi, A
Universe of Consciousness.
2. This important point, that qualia are just the discriminations that
the dynamic core entails, allowing enhanced adaptive capabilities, is
summarized succinctly in Edelman, “Naturalizing Consciousness.”
3. This issue is discussed in my article “Naturalizing Conscious-
ness” but also in chap. 7 of my book Wider Than the Sky; for a
brief history of scientific approaches to consciousness, see Dalton
and Baars, “Consciousness Regained.”
4. Freud, On Dreams.
Notes to Pages 27–41
161
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 161
five
EPISTEMOLOGY AND ITS DISCONTENTS
1. See, e.g., Dancy and Sosa, eds., A Companion to Epistemology.
2. Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigations.
3. Plato argues that we do have knowledge and if this is so, there
must be imperceptible Forms which knowledge is about. The
Forms are the only real things. Objects of our perception are
copies of the Forms and less real. In his dialogue, Meno, he
claims that an unlettered slave knew the Pythagorean Theorem
even before Socrates coached him. This nativism is not unre-
lated to essentialism. See Plato, “Meno.”
4. Descartes, The Philosophical Writings of Descartes, trans. Cotting-
ham, Stoothoff, and Murdoch.
5. Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature; Taylor, “Overcoming
Epistemology,” 1. A more tightly reasoned account deploring the
obsession with epistemology may be found in Searle, “The Fu-
ture of Philosophy.”
6. Quine, “Epistemology Naturalized,” in Ontological Relativity and
Other Essays, 69–90.
7. Piaget, Genetic Epistemology. See also Piaget, Biology and Knowledge.
The examples I give, starting with Quine, are intended to be ex-
emplary, not exhaustive. For a comprehensive account of the
various forms of naturalism, see Kitcher, “The Naturalists Return.”
8. See, e.g., Messerly, Piaget’s Conception of Evolution. This book out-
lines but does not effectively criticize Piaget’s “biology.”
9. Bishop and Trout, Epistemology and the Psychology of Human Judgment.
10. See Campbell, “Evolutionary Epistemology.” A comprehensive
account may be found in Callebaut and Pinxten, eds., Evolution-
ary Epistemology.
Notes to Pages 44–51
162
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 162
11. Dawkins, The Selfish Gene.
12. See Cosmides and Tooby, “From Evolution to Behavior.”
13. Lewontin, “Sociobiology—A Caricature of Darwinism”; Gould,
The Mismeasure of Man; Caplan, ed., The Sociobiology Debate.
six
A BRAIN-BASED APPROACH
1. Boyd and Richerson, The Origin and Evolution of Cultures.
2. Merzenich, Nelson, Stryker, Schoppman, and Zook, “Somato-
sensory Cortical Map Changes Following Digit Manipulation in
Adult Monkeys.”
3. For a rich analysis of metaphor in bodily terms, see Lakoff,
Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things. Another related account is
Johnson, The Body in the Mind. A synthesis with an emphasis on
psychology comes from a well-informed psychiatrist: Modell,
Imagination and the Meaningful Brain.
4. The outstanding figure here is Noam Chomsky. See his classic
account in Cartesian Linguistics. His more recent thoughts are em-
bodied in the books Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory
of Government and Binding and Language and Thought.
5. Tarski, “The Concept of Truth in Formalized Languages.”
6. This whole discussion is not free from controversy. See, e.g., the
contrasting views in two recent publications and a perspective
on both: Lemer, Izard, and Dehaene, “Exact and Approximate
Arithmetic in an Amazonian Indigene Group”; Gordon, “Numer-
ical Cognition without Words”; and the perspective on these re-
ports, Gelman and Gallistiel, “Language and the Origin of Nu-
merical Concepts.”
Notes to Pages 51–62
163
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 163
7. Carey, “Bootstrapping and the Origin of Concepts.” For a general
background, see Dehaene, The Number Sense.
8. Another quotation, presumably translated, is: “God created the in-
tegers, all else is the work of man.” See Bell, Men of Mathematics, 477.
9. Edelman and Gally, “Degeneracy and Complexity in Biological
Systems.”
10. The idea derives from Hume. The naturalistic fallacy was
pointed out in Moore, Principia Ethica.
11. I use the term “second nature” to refer to the sum of our experi-
enced perceptions, memories, and attitudes individually and col-
lectively. The term is perhaps best encapsulated in the notion of
common sense knowledge derived from everyday experience
rather than from scientific knowledge. This usage should not be
conflated with the distinction between the Manifest Image and
Scientific Image drawn by the philosopher Wilfred Sellars. As
he puts it, the Manifest Image is the commonsense framework
of man-in-the-world, but it also includes correlational and induc-
tive science. The Scientific Image embodies the postulated enti-
ties of theoretical science, for example, atoms, molecules, and
microphysics. Thus, both images invoke scientific knowledge.
Sellars’s distinctions were aimed at philosophers. My usage is
more modest and is simply intended to contrast our everyday
impressions and conclusions with those reached through scien-
tific pursuits. See Sellars, “Philosophy and the Scientific Image of
Man.” For the kind of contrast between second nature and na-
ture that I have in mind, see Eddington, The Nature of the Physical
World, ix–xii. This gifted astronomer contrasts the table before
him—“strange compound of external nature, mental imagery,
and inherited prejudice”—with the scientific description of his
table, “mostly emptiness full of speedy electric charges.”
Notes to Pages 63–66
164
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 164
12. Boyd and Richerson, The Origin and Evolution of Cultures.
13. Huxley, “On the Method of Zadig.” In this essay, based on a
talk, Huxley points out that “prophecy” is not necessarily a fore-
telling of the future but rather, as Voltaire points out in his fan-
tasy, “Zadig,” it can consist of insights derived from present evi-
dence concerning events in the past.
seven
FORMS OF KNOWLEDGE
1. G. Sarton, Appreciation of Ancient and Medieval Science during the
Renaissance.
2. Vico, The New Science of Giambattista Vico; Berlin, Vico and Herder.
3. Berlin, “The Divorce between the Sciences and the Humani-
ties,” 326.
4. Dilthey’s Philosophy of Existence.
5. Vico, The New Science of Giambattista Vico; Berlin, Vico and Herder:
Two Studies in the History of Ideas.
6. James, “Does Consciousness Exist?”
7. Whitehead, Modes of Thought.
8. Snow, The Two Cultures and Scientific Revolution.
9. Schrödinger, Mind and Matter.
10. Watson, Behaviorism; Skinner, About Behaviorism.
11. Churchland, The Engine of Reason.
12. Otto Neurath was a critical figure in the so-called Vienna Circle
and in later life sponsored the Unity of Science Movement and
published the Encyclopedia of Unified Science. See “Sociology and
Physicalism, Erkenntnis 2 (1931–2)” and “Protocol Sentences
(1932–3)” in Ayer, ed. Logical Positivism.
Notes to Pages 66–73
165
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 165
13. Weinberg, Dreams of a Final Theory. Against the notion of a
TOE we have Laughlin and Pines, “The Theory of Everything.”
Laughlin has written an extensive account against extreme re-
ductionism in A Different Universe.
14. Wilson, Consilience. Stephen Jay Gould wrote an impassioned
critique of Wilson’s position in The Hedgehog, the Fox, and the
Magister’s Pox. See especially chapter 9, “The False Path of
Reductionism and the Consilience of Equal Regard.”
15. Wilson, Consilience, 11.
eight
REPAIRING THE RIFT
1. Berlin, “The Concept of Scientific History.”
2. Hempel, Aspects of Scientific Explanation and Other Essays in the
Philosophy of Science.
3. These, in classical terms, are propositional attitudes, states of
mind having propositional contents and attitudes toward them.
They include beliefs, desires, intentions, wishes, fears, doubts,
and hopes.
4. B. Adams, The Law of Civilization and Decay.
5. Spengler, The Decline of the West; Toynbee, A Study of History. These
two and Adams may be looked on as metahistorians or bold
synthesizers, admirable for their sweep if not for their judgments.
6. Gaddis, The Landscape of History.
7. See Edelman, Wider Than the Sky, 147–148.
8. Lakoff, Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things.
9. Wilson, Consilience; Gould, The Hedgehog, the Fox, and the Magis-
ter’s Pox.
Notes to Pages 74–84
166
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 166
10. D. A. Hume, Treatise of Human Nature; Moore, Principia Ethica.
11. The philosopher Avrum Stroll has argued strongly that there are
questions of fact that “even in principle” science cannot answer.
See Stroll, Did My Genes Make Me Do It?
12. Quine, Ontological Relativity and Other Essays; Edelman, Wider
Than the Sky.
nine
CAUSATION, ILLUSIONS, AND VALUES
1. Van’t Hoff, Imagination in Science.
2. Intentionality is considered extensively in Searle, Consciousness
and Language.
3. Quine, Word and Object.
4. Epiphenomenalism is sometimes seen as a cousin of dualism, as
an objectionable spooky doctrine. But the color (or more rightly,
the spectrum) of hemoglobin which is entailed by the molecule’s
structure requires no such doctrine. The spectrum is not causal,
but the color changes when, causally, oxygen is bound.
5. For an account suggesting that conscious will has many illusory
properties, see Wegener, The Illusion of Conscious Will.
6. Damasio, The Feeling of What Happens.
ten
CREATIVITY
1. Edelman, Bright Air, Brilliant Fire, chap. 8.
2. This quotation has been attributed to a character in E. M. Forster’s
Notes to Pages 84–101
167
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 167
novel Howard’s End (1910), though I have not been able to locate
it there. Nonetheless, it has been attributed to him.
3. This view of thought as being essentially motoric is consistent
with the known interactions of the prefrontal and parietal cortex
with basal ganglia, the subcortical regions involved in motor pro-
grams; see figure 1. The essential notion is that all that is motoric
is not necessarily expressed as action or movement.
4. Kanizsa, Organization in Vision.
eleven
ABNORMAL STATES
1. Even so, there are numerous subtleties in diagnosing various
syndromes and states of neural illness. The nature of the task be-
comes obvious on consulting the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders: DSM-IV-TR.
2. Freud, Standard Edition.
3. For an account of how Haeckel’s biogenetic law fell into disre-
gard, see S. J. Gould, Ontogeny and Phylogeny.
4. Two relatively nontechnical books on neuropsychological syn-
dromes are Feinberg, Altered Egos, and Hirstein, Brain Fiction. Hirstein
focuses on syndromes leading to confabulation, a subject that ob-
viously has a bearing on how we know and know we know. The
neurologist Oliver Sacks has written insightfully about the effects
of neuropsychological syndromes on modes of being and know-
ing. His accounts beautifully describe the ways in which alter-
ations in the nervous system are reflected in behavior. See The
Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat.
5. Sperry, “Some Effects of Disconnecting the Cerebral Hemispheres.”
Notes to Pages 103–111
168
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 168
6. See Feinberg, Altered Egos, and Hirstein, Brain Fiction.
7. See Hirstein, Brain Fiction.
8. This no place for textbook references on either psychosis or neu-
rosis. A perusal of apposite sections in DSM–IV-TR will give suf-
ficient detail.
9. See Wollheim, Freud.
10. See the quotation in Curtis and Greenslet, eds., The Practical
Cogitator, 31–35.
twelve
BRAIN-BASED DEVICES
1. Krichmar and Edelman, “Brain-Based Devices for the Study of
Nervous Systems and the Development of Intelligent Machines.”
2. Turing, “On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the
Entscheidungs Problem.”
3. Hunt, Understanding Robotics, 7.
4. The device Darwin VII is not described in detail in Krichmar and
Edelman, “Brain-Based Devices.” It resembled Darwin VIII
closely but had no reentrant structures in its brain. For details,
see Krichmar and Edelman, “Machine Psychology.” Later refine-
ments are in Krichmar, Nitz, Gally, and Edelman, “Characteriz-
ing Functional Hippocampal Pathways in a Brain-based Device
as It Solves a Spatial Memory Task.”
5. Such a perception-Turing machine would combine the percep-
tual and learning abilities of a BBD-like portion with the knowl-
edge base and calculating powers of a digital computer. Mistakes
would have to be avoided in the computer portion while the
perception “machine” would deal with novelty, which in its na-
Notes to Pages 113–140
169
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 169
ture is not programmable. At the same time the perception ma-
chine would learn by making mistakes. Mutual communication
between the two portions of such a machine should lead to great
increases in computing power and pattern recognition.
thirteen
SECOND NATURE
1. For the Darwin-Wallace correspondence, see Kottler, “Charles
Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace.”
2. Quine, Pursuit of Truth, 71.
3. Brentano expanded on the notion of intentionality, which he con-
sidered to distinguish the mental from the physical. For a modern
exposition of the concept, see the collection of essays by Searle,
Consciousness and Language. In later life, Brentano became an ex-
plicit dualist. His key early work was Brentano, Psychology from an
Empirical Standpoint.
4. Bishop and Trout, Epistemology and the Psychology of Human Judgment.
5. Blackburn, Truth: A Guide; Lynch, True to Life.
6. Changeux, The Physiology of Truth. This book uses a version of
Neural Darwinism and the theory of reentry to claim that selec-
tion in evolution provided a basis for truth—a physiology of
truth. But this position fails to recognize that the search for truth
is, in Stephen Jay Gould’s word, an exaptation. Selection for con-
sciousness may provide adaptive advantage for planning but is no
guarantee of truth. The claim, even metaphorical, that there is a
physiology of truth is ill-founded. The assumption of Popper’s
model of how knowledge evolves is also unconvincing, given
the evidence of our irrational behavior. One hope for guidance
Notes to Pages 143–149
170
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 170
derived from epistemology comes from a pragmatic view of rea-
soning as suggested by Bishop and Trout. For strong arguments
that our brains have not evolved directly to achieve knowledge
of truth, see Kitcher, “The Naturalists Return,” and Stich, The
Fragmentation of Reason.
7. Goldman, Knowledge in a Social World. See also Kitcher, The Ad-
vances of Science.
8. Ayer, Philosophy in the Twentieth Century.
9. Lakoff, Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things; Johnson, The Body in
the Mind.
10. Bruner, Going beyond the Information Given.
11. Edelman, The Remembered Present.
12. Wollheim, Freud.
13. Gould, The Hedgehog, the Fox, and the Magister’s Pox.
Notes to Pages 149–156
171
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 171
14edelmanNotes.159_172 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 172
Bibliography
Adams, B. The Law of Civilization and Decay: An Essay on History. New
York: Macmillan, 1896. Reprint ed., New York: Gordon, 1943.
Adams, H. The Education of Henry Adams. Boston: Houghton Mifflin,
1973.
Ayer, A. J., ed. Logical Positivism. New York: Free Press, 1959.
———. Philosophy in the Twentieth Century. East Hanover, NJ: Vintage
Books, 1984.
Bell, E. T. Men of Mathematics: The Lives and Achievements of the Great
Mathematicians from Zeno to Poincaré. New York: Simon and Schus-
ter, 1986.
Berlin, I. “The Concept of Scientific History.” In Berlin, The Proper
Study of Mankind: An Anthology of Essays, 17–58. New York: Farrar,
Straus and Giroux, 1997.
———. “The Divorce between the Sciences and the Humanities.” In
Berlin, The Proper Study of Mankind, 320–358. New York: Farrar,
Straus, and Giroux, 1997.
———. Vico and Herder: Two Studies in the History of Ideas. New York:
Viking, 1976.
Bishop, M. A., and J. D. Trout. Epistemology and the Psychology of
Human Judgment. New York: Oxford University Press, 2005.
Blackburn, S. Truth: A Guide. New York: Oxford University Press, 2005.
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 173
Boyd, R., and P. J. Richerson. The Origin and Evolution of Cultures.
New York: Oxford University Press, 2005.
Brentano, F. Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint. 2nd ed. Trans.
A. C. Rancurello, D. B. Terrell, and L. L. McAlister. London: Rout-
ledge, 1995.
Bruner, J. Going beyond the Information Given. New York: Norton, 1993.
Callebaut, W., and R. Pinxten, eds. Evolutionary Epistemology: A Multi-
paradigm Program. Synthese Library, 190. Dordrecht: Reidel, 1987.
Campbell, D. T. “Evolutionary Epistemology.” In P. A. Schlipp, ed., The
Philosophy of Karl Popper, 412–463. La Salle, IL: Open Court, 1974.
Caplan, A. L., ed. The Sociobiology Debate. New York: Harper and
Row, 1978.
Carey, S. “Bootstrapping and the Origin of Concepts.” Daedalus 133
(2004): 59–68.
Changeux, J.-P. The Physiology of Truth: Neuroscience and Human
Knowledge. Trans. M. B. DeBevoise. Cambridge, MA: Belknap
Press of Harvard University Press, 2004.
Chomsky, N. Cartesian Linguistics. New York: Harper and Row, 1966.
———. Language and Thought. Wakefield, RI: Moyer Bell, 1993.
———. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government
and Binding. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1982.
Churchland, P. The Engine of Reason, the Seat of the Soul: Philosophical
Journey into the Brain. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996.
Cosmides, L., and J. Tooby. “From Evolution to Behavior: Evolution-
ary Psychology as the Missing Link.” In J. Dupré, ed., The Latest on
the Best: Essays on Evolution and Optimality, 277–306. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press, 1987.
Curtis, C. P., Jr., and F. Greenslet, eds. The Practical Cogitator; or, The
Thinker’s Anthology. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1962.
Bibliography
174
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 174
Dalton, T. C., and B. J. Baars. “Consciousness Regained: The Scien-
tific Restoration of Mind and Brain.” In Dalton and R. B. Evans,
eds., The Life Cycle of Psychological Ideas, 203–247. New York:
Kluwer Academic/Plenum, 2004.
Damasio, A. R. The Feeling of What Happens. New York: Harcourt
Brace, 1999.
Dancy, J., and E. Sosa, eds. A Companion to Epistemology. Oxford:
Blackwell, 1992.
Darwin, C. On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or
the Preservation of Favored Races in the Struggle for Life. London: John
Murray, 1859.
Dawkins, R. The Selfish Gene. New York: Oxford University Press, 1976.
Dehaene, S. The Number Sense. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1997.
Descartes, R. “Discourse on the Method.” In The Philosophical Writings
of Descartes, trans. J. Cottingham, R. Stoothoff, and D. Murdoch,
vol. 1, 109–176. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
———. “Meditations on First Philosophy.” In The Philosophical Writ-
ings of Descartes, trans. J. Cottingham, R. Stoothoff, and D. Mur-
doch, vol. 2, 1–49. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984.
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-IV-TR. 4th
ed., text revision. Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Associa-
tion, 2000.
Dilthey, Wilhelm. Philosophy of Existence: Introduction to Weltanschau-
ungslehre. Trans. W. Kluback and M. Weinbaum. New York: Book-
man, 1957.
Eddington, A. S. The Nature of the Physical World. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1929.
Edelman, G. M. Bright Air, Brilliant Fire: On the Matter of the Mind.
New York: Basic Books, 1992.
Bibliography
175
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 175
———. “Naturalizing Consciousness: A Theoretical Framework.”
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA 100 (2003):
5520–5524.
———. Neural Darwinism: The Theory of Neuronal Group Selection.
New York: Basic Books, 1987.
———. The Remembered Present: A Biological Theory of Consciousness.
New York: Basic Books, 1989.
———. Wider Than the Sky: The Phenomenal Gift of Consciousness.
New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2004.
———, and J. A. Gally. “Degeneracy and Complexity in Biological
Systems.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA 98
(2001): 13763–13768.
———, and V. B. Mountcastle. The Mindful Brain: Cortical Organiza-
tion and the Group-Selective Theory of Higher Brain Function. Cam-
bridge, MA: MIT Press, 1978.
———, and G. Tononi. A Universe of Consciousness: How Matter Be-
comes Imagination. New York: Basic Books, 2000.
Feinberg, T. E. Altered Egos: How the Brain Creates the Self. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2001.
Freud, S. On Dreams. Ed. J. Strachey. Reprint ed., New York: Norton,
1963.
———. The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sig-
mund Freud. 24 vols. Trans. J. Strachey in collaboration with A.
Freud, assisted by A. Strachey and A. Tyson. London: Hogarth
Press and Institute of Psychoanalysis, 1975.
Gaddis, J. L. The Landscape of History: How Historians Map the Past.
New York: Oxford University Press, 2002.
Gelman, R., and C. R. Gallistiel. “Language and the Origin of Nu-
merical Concepts.” Science 306 (2004): 441–443.
Bibliography
176
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 176
Goldman, A. I. Knowledge in a Social World. Oxford: Clarendon Press,
1999.
Gordon, P. “Numerical Cognition without Words: Evidence from
Amazonia.” Science 306 (2004): 496–499.
Gould, S. J. The Hedgehog, The Fox, and the Magister’s Pox: Minding the Gap
between Science and the Humanities. New York: Harmony Books, 2003.
———. The Mismeasure of Man. New York: W. W. Norton, 1981.
———. Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press of
Harvard University Press, 1977.
Heil, J. Philosophy of Mind: A Guide and Anthology. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2004.
Hempel, C. G. Aspects of Scientific Explanation and Other Essays in the
Philosophy of Science. New York: Free Press, 1965.
Hirstein, W. Brain Fiction: Self-Deception and the Riddle of Confabulation.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2005.
Hume, D. A. Treatise of Human Nature. London: Routledge and Kegan
Paul, 1985.
Hunt, V. D. Understanding Robotics. New York: Academic Press, Har-
court Brace Jovanovich, 1990.
Huxley, T. H. “On the Method of Zadig: Retrospective Prophecy as a
Function of Science.” In Science and Hebrew Tradition: Essays by
Thomas H. Huxley, 1–22. New York: D. Appleton, 1894.
James, W. “Does Consciousness Exist?” In James, Essays in Radical
Empiricism, 1–38. New York: Longman Green, 1912.
Johnson, M. The Body in the Mind. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1987.
Kanizsa, G. Organization in Vision. New York: Praeger, 1979.
Kitcher, P. The Advances of Science. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1993.
Bibliography
177
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 177
———. “The Naturalists Return.” Philosophical Review 101, no. 1
(1992): 53–114.
Kottler, M. J. “Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace: Two
Decades of Debate over Natural Selection.” In D. Kohn, ed., The
Darwinian Heritage, 367–432. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press, 1985.
Krichmar, J. L., and G. M. Edelman. “Brain-Based Devices for the
Study of Nervous Systems and the Development of Intelligent
Machines.” Artificial Life 111 (2005): 67–77.
———. “Machine Psychology: Autonomous Behavior, Perceptual
Categorization and Conditioning in a Brain-based Device.” Cere-
bral Cortex 12 (2002): 818–830.
Krichmar, J. L., D. A. Nitz, J. A. Gally, and G. M. Edelman. “Charac-
terizing Functional Hippocampal Pathways in a Brain-based De-
vice as It Solves a Spatial Memory Task.” Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences USA 102 (2005): 2111–2116.
Lakoff, G. Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1987.
Laughlin, R. B. A Different Universe: Reinventing Physics from the Bottom
Down. New York: Basic Books, 2005.
———, and D. Pines. “The Theory of Everything.” Proceedings of the
National Academy of Science USA 97 (2000): 28–31.
Lemer, C., V. Izard, and S. Dehaene. “Exact and Approximate
Arithmetic in an Amazonian Indigene Group.” Science 306 (2004):
499–503.
Lewontin, R. “Sociobiology—A Caricature of Darwinism.” In
P. Asquith and F. Suppe, eds., PSA 1976, 2:22–31. East Lansing,
MI: Philosophy of Science Association 1977.
Lynch, M. P. True to Life: Why Truth Matters. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press, 2004.
Bibliography
178
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 178
Mayr, E. The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and In-
heritance. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1982.
Merzenich, M. M., R. J. Nelson, M. P. Stryker, A. Schoppman, and
J. M. Zook. “Somatosensory Cortical Map Changes Following
Digit Manipulation in Adult Monkeys.” Journal of Comparative
Neurology 224 (1984): 591–605.
Messerly, J. G. Piaget’s Conception of Evolution: Beyond Darwin and
Lamarck. Lanham, MD: Bowman and Littlefield, 1996.
Modell, A. H. Imagination and the Meaningful Brain. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press, 2003.
Moore, G. E. Principia Ethica. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1903.
Piaget, J. Biology and Knowledge: An Essay on the Relations between
Organic Regulations and Cognitive Processes. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 1971.
———. Genetic Epistemology. New York: Columbia University Press,
1970.
Plato. “Meno.” In E. Hamilton and H. Cairns, eds., The Collected Dia-
logues of Plato. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1961.
Quine, W. V. Ontological Relativity and Other Essays. New York: Co-
lumbia University Press, 1969.
———. Pursuit of Truth. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press,
1990.
———. Quiddities: An Intermittently Philosophical Dictionary. Cam-
bridge, MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1987.
———. Word and Object. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1960.
Reeke, G. N., Jr., and G. M. Edelman. “Real Brains and Artificial In-
telligence.” Daedalus 117 (1987): 143–173.
Richards, R. J. Darwin and the Emergence of Evolutionary Theories of
Mind and Behavior. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987.
Bibliography
179
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 179
Rorty, R. Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press, 1979.
Sacks, O. The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat and Other Clinical
Tales. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1998.
Sarton, G. Appreciation of Ancient and Medieval Science during the Re-
naissance. New York: Barnes, 1955.
Schrödinger, E. Mind and Matter. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1958.
Searle, J. R. Consciousness and Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 2002.
———. “The Future of Philosophy.” Philosophical Transactions of the
Royal Society London, B. 354 (1999): 2069–2080.
———. Minds, Brains and Science. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Univer-
sity Press, 1984.
Sellars, W. “Philosophy and the Scientific Image of Man.” In Sellars,
Science, Perception and Reality, 1–40. London: Routledge and K. Paul,
1963.
Skinner, B. F. About Behaviorism. New York: Vintage, 1976.
Snow, C. P. The Two Cultures and Scientific Revolution. New York: Nor-
ton, 1930.
Spengler, O. The Decline of the West. New York: Alfred Knopf, 1939.
Sperry, R. W. “Some Effects of Disconnecting the Cerebral Hemi-
spheres.” Nobel lecture. Les Prix Nobel. Stockholm: Almqvist &
Wiksell, 1981.
Stich, S. The Fragmentation of Reason. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1990.
Stroll A. Did My Genes Make Me Do It? And Other Philosophical Dilem-
mas. Oxford: One World, 2004.
Tarski, A. “The Concept of Truth in Formalized Languages.” In
Tarski, Logic, Semantics, Metamathematics: Papers from 1923 to 1938,
152–278. Trans. J. H. Woodger. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1956.
Bibliography
180
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 180
Taylor, C. “Overcoming Epistemology.” In Taylor, Philosophical Argu-
ments, 1–19. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1995.
Toynbee, A. A Study of History. Abridgement by D. C. Somerveld. 2
vols. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1957.
Turing, A. “On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the
Entscheidungs Problem.” Proceedings of the London Mathematical Soci-
ety, 2nd Ser., 42 (1936): 230–265.
Unglass, M.A. “Dopamine: The Salient Issue.” Trends in Neurosciences
27 (2004): 702–706.
van’t Hoff, J. H. Imagination in Science. Trans. G. F. Springer. Berlin:
Springer-Verlag, 1967.
Vico, G. B. The New Science of Giambattista Vico (1744). Trans. T. G.
Bergin and M. H. Fisch. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1948;
reprint ed., Cornell Paperback, 1976.
Watson, J. Behaviorism. New York: Norton, 1930.
Wegener, D. M. The Illusion of Conscious Will. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press, 2003.
Weinberg, S. Dreams of a Final Theory: The Scientist’s Search for the Ulti-
mate Laws of Nature. New York: Vintage, 1994.
Whitehead, A. N. Modes of Thought. New York: Macmillan, 1938.
———. Science and the Modern World. New York: Macmillan, 1925.
Reprint ed., New York: Free Press, 1967.
Wilson, E. O. Consilience: The Unity of Human Knowledge. New York:
Vintage, 1999.
Wittgenstein, L. Philosophical Investigations. 3rd ed. New York:
Macmillan, 1953.
Wollheim, Richard. Freud: A Collection of Critical Essays. Garden City,
NY: Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1974.
Bibliography
181
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 181
15edelmanBib.173_182 7/22/06 1:59 PM Page 182
abstractions, 48
accommodation, 48
acetylcholine, 31
acrophobia, 118
Adams, Brooks, 79, 166n5
Adams, Henry, 1–2, 6, 7, 8
Adams, John, 1
adaptive responses: and brain as
selectional system, 28, 30, 31;
and discriminations, 37, 58;
and Piaget, 48; planning of,
58, 144; evolution of, 65
aesthetics: and normative issues,
10, 74, 78, 84, 91, 148; and
history, 81, 85; and creativity,
99; and scientific reduction-
ism, 146; and brain-based
epistemology, 156
agency, 13
agnosias, 110
agoraphobia, 118
agraphia, 110
alexia, 110
Alzheimer’s disease, 116
American Psychiatric Associa-
tion, 118
amnesias, 110
animals: and mental states, 3;
and primary consciousness,
15, 38; and signal pathways,
19; and perceptual categoriza-
tion, 20; and value systems,
31, 37, 95; and discrimina-
tions, 36–37, 40, 58, 144;
and uniqueness of brain, 59;
and econiches, 102; and
trained behavior, 128–129;
robots compared to, 130;
experiments on, 131; hip-
pocampus in, 136–137, 138;
brain-based devises com-
pared to, 139
anosognosia, 104, 113–114
anthropology, 51, 80
Index
Italic page numbers refer to figures
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 183
antibodies, 26–27, 100–101, 102
antigens, 26–27, 100, 101, 102
Anton’s syndrome, 114
anxiety disorders, 118
apraxias, 110
artificial intelligence, 21
assimilation, 48
association: and memory, 33, 34,
36; and degenerate circuits in
brain, 34, 83, 153; and re-
entrant degenerate system,
58; and metaphor, 61, 83,
122; and discriminations, 90;
and reentrant interactions
in brain, 151
attention, 39, 86, 94, 102, 115
Australopithicus, 55
Ayer, A. J., 152
Bacon, Francis, 70, 82
basal ganglia: and brain structure,
16, 17; and signal pathways,
20; and value systems, 59;
and language, 61, 154; and
brain-based devices, 139; and
sequence of brain events, 153;
prefrontal and parietal cortex
interactions with, 168n3
basal syntax, 61
behavior: and animals, 15,
128–129; and computer
metaphor for brain, 21; and
brain as selectional system,
28; and value systems, 31; and
nonconscious interactions,
39; neural constraints on, 50;
and evolutionary psychol-
ogy, 51–52; and perceptual
categorization, 59; adaptive
behavior, 65; rational beha-
vior, 81; regularities of, 82,
84; effects of unconscious
processes on, 108; and neu-
roses, 122; and brain-based
devices, 139; historical and
cultural events affecting,
153; and brain-based epis-
temology, 155
behaviorism, 73, 155
beliefs: meaning of, 44; and
Descartes, 45; psychological
processes leading to, 46; and
thought, 63, 90, 123; cultural
factors in, 66; and history,
78; reflected in conscious-
ness, 89; origins of, 109, 148;
and brain-body relationship,
114; and psychoanalytic the-
ory, 121; and perceptions,
152
Berlin, Isaiah, 70, 77, 78–79, 80,
81
biology: and conception of
nature, 6; of Piaget, 48–49;
and conscious thought, 91;
and physics, 149
Index
184
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 184
bipolar disorders, 107, 116–118
Bishop, Michael A., 49–50,
171n6
body: brain, body, environment
interaction, 3, 10–11, 34, 56,
57, 65, 126–127; and brain
activity, 24; as embedded
in environment, 24–25, 55,
127; and brain map forma-
tion, 56; brain-body relation-
ship, 113, 114; consciousness
as property of, 147
Boyd, Robert, 55, 66
brain: brain, body, environment
interaction, 3, 10–11, 34, 56,
57, 65, 126–127; basis of
consciousness in, 7, 9–10;
as computer, 9, 21–22, 127;
characteristics of, 15; major
parts of, 15, 16, 17, 18; brain
speaking to itself, 20–21, 32,
36, 37, 57, 100; as embodied,
24–25, 46, 126, 140; unique-
ness of individual brains, 31,
55, 57, 59, 65, 66, 82, 84;
brain circuits, 33–34, 83, 153;
development of, 55–57, 65,
129; epigenetic nature of, 55,
56, 57, 65, 74, 84, 89, 143,
154, 156; and evolution,
55–56, 64–65, 77, 82, 85;
and individual development,
56; brain-body relationship,
113, 114. See also brain as
selectional system
brain activity: and Neural Dar-
winism, 13, 160n1; working
picture of, 18; and body, 24;
and knowledge acquisition,
42; emotion as part of, 60;
and creativity, 99, 104–105
brain areas: and signal path-
ways, 19, 20–21; and reentry,
32, 57; and activity of core,
93; and neuropsychological
syndromes/diseases, 110–
111, 115–116, 122; and
binding problem, 136
brain as selectional system: and
neurons, 27–28, 34; and
adaptive responses, 28, 30,
31; and reentry, 28, 30, 32,
57; and value systems,
30–31, 33, 59, 64, 82, 90, 94,
101; and memory, 32–33, 57,
90; and degeneracy, 33–34,
82, 83, 84; and brain develop-
ment, 55–56; and pattern
recognition, 58–59, 82,
83–84; and specificity and
brain-based devices (BBDs),
range, 58, 83, 102, 103; and
ambiguity, 82, 90–91; and
history, 82, 85; and nonlinear
processes, 82, 89–90; and
repertoires of variants, 82, 89,
Index
185
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 185
brain as selectional system
(continued)
130; and creativity, 97, 99,
104; and perceptual catego-
rization, 101; and conscious
artifacts, 126; and brain-
based devices, 131, 134; and
individual activity patterns,
135–136; and consciousness,
143, 170n6; and sampling of
world events, 154–155. See
also Neural Darwinism
brain-based devices (BBDs), 127,
128, 130–131, 132, 133–141,
169–170n5
brain-based epistemology: and
brain function, 2; grounds for,
42, 52; and knowledge acqui-
sition, 54, 66; and natural se-
lection, 54, 64; and discrimi-
natory responses, 60; and
language, 60–62, 65–66, 154;
and heterogeneous sources of
knowledge, 64–65; and tradi-
tional epistemology, 65, 104;
recursive element in, 84–85;
naturalized epistemology
contrasted with, 86, 147; and
perceptions, 86, 152; and
causality, 91; and generativity,
95–96; and Freud’s psycho-
analytic theory, 120; and ab-
normal states, 124; and data
from neuroscience and psy-
chology, 148; and truth, 148,
156; and normative issues,
149; premises of, 152–156;
and qualified realism, 154–155
brain events: and scientific
methodology, 7–8; unique-
ness of, 84; recombinatorial
and integrative power of, 100;
scientific observation of, 146
brain function, 2, 65, 77, 108
brain maps, 56–57
brain stem, 16, 17, 30, 59
brain theory, 8, 10, 14, 69
Brentano, Franz, 147–148, 170n3
Broca’s aphasia, 109–110
Bruner, Jerome, 154
C, 92, 145
C, 92, 145
Campbell, Donald, 51
Capgras’s syndrome, 114
Cartesian observer, 55
causality: and notion of zombie,
40–41; physical causation,
40, 64, 71, 74; and thalamo-
cortical system, 40, 92; and
epistemological issues, 47,
91; and study of conscious-
ness, 89; and macroscopic
level of physical world,
Index
186
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 186
91–92; and mental events,
91–92, 94; causal activity
of dynamic core, 92, 155;
and neuropsychological syn-
dromes/diseases, 107, 111,
122; and psychoses, 122; and
qualia, 145
cerebellum, and brain structure,
16, 17
cerebral cortex: and structure of
brain, 16, 17; and thalamic
neurons mediating vision,
19–20; and brain speaking
to itself, 20–21, 32, 36, 37;
and nonconscious inter-
actions, 39; somatosensory
maps of, 56–57; interactions
with hippocampus, 137; and
language, 154. See also thala-
mocortical system
chaos theory, 80
chauvinism, and brain-based
devices, 127, 138–139
chimpanzees, 15, 38
classification, 103
claustrophobia, 118
cognitive structures, and Piaget,
47, 48
commissurotomy, 111–112
communication, 38. See also
language
communication devices, 129
complexity theory, 80
computer metaphor: and brain,
9, 21–22, 127; consciousness
theory contrasted with, 25,
28, 60, 82
computers, digital, invention of,
129
concrete operational stage, 47, 48
conditioning, and brain-based
devices, 128, 135, 139
confabulations, 65, 111,
112–113, 115, 122, 155
conscious artifacts: construction
of, 10–11, 126–127,
139–140; composition and
structure of, 127–128; and
brain-based devices, 128,
130–131, 132, 133–139
conscious experience: and re-
entry, 38–39, 58; neural
bases of, 54; and physical
causation, 64; and qualia, 84;
efficacy of, 144–145; irre-
ducibility of, 145–146
conscious machines, 128
consciousness: basis of, 3, 7,
9–10, 126, 143; as process, 4,
37–38, 41, 91; and Descartes’s
dualism, 8, 72; and scientific
inquiry, 8, 9, 149, 156–157;
and subjectivity, 9, 42, 151;
and brain structure and
Index
187
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 187
consciousness (continued)
dynamics, 13, 77, 143; fea-
tures of, 13, 14; as unitary
experience, 13–14, 34, 39;
of other species, 14–15; of
consciousness, 15, 38; pri-
mary consciousness, 15, 36,
38; and thalamus, 19; evolu-
tion of, 24, 36, 58, 143; and
lack of causal powers, 37;
and physical causation/logi-
cal entailment distinction, 40;
and naturalized epistemol-
ogy, 47; testable model of,
65; and split between science
and humanities, 77; inten-
tionality displayed in, 89;
subjected to illusions, 89,
91, 92–93; abnormal states
of, 107–108, 115, 123–124;
and brain as selectional
system, 143, 170n6; and
perceptual categorization,
148. See also higher-order
consciousness
consciousness theory: as brain-
based, 10, 11; and qualia,
14–15; computer metaphor
contrasted with, 25, 28, 60,
82; lack of dualism in, 37, 72,
143, 149
conscious states: awake con-
scious state, 13; and inten-
tionality, 14, 39, 147–148;
knowledge dependent on,
86–87; integration of core
states leading to, 93
consilience, 74, 84, 166n14
corpus callosum, 111
cosmology, 80, 81
creativity: and how we create,
3–4; and brain-based theory
of consciousness, 10; and
metaphor, 58; and pattern
recognition, 83–84; and brain
as selectional system, 97, 99,
104; and brain activity, 99,
104–105; and perceptions,
100, 123; and specificity and
range, 101–102; madness
linked to, 107; and higher-
order consciousness, 156
culture: and development of
knowledge, 55; and language,
55, 61; coevolution of, 66,
150; and intentionality, 66,
84; normative issues in, 66,
122; and hermeneutics, 71;
and history, 78, 81; and
higher-order consciousness,
97; and creativity, 104; and
brain-based devices, 140; and
scientific reductionism, 146;
and science, 156
Index
188
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 188
Damasio, Antonio R., 95
Darwin, Charles: and place in
nature, 6, 7, 143; and natural
selection, 7, 9, 51, 147; and
population thinking, 25; and
history, 80; and Wallace, 143,
159–160n7
Darwin VII, 131, 132, 133,
134–135, 169n4
Darwin VIII, 131, 136, 169n4
Darwin X, 131, 136, 137–138
Dawkins, Richard, 51
death of epistemology school,
44, 45, 67
degeneracy: and brain as selec-
tional system, 33–34, 82,
83, 84; and discriminations,
36, 90; and Neural Darwin-
ism, 57; and brain-based epis-
temology, 66; and specificity
and range, 83; and antibody
repertoires, 101; and entail-
ment, 145; and reentrant
interactions in brain, 151
déja pensée, 114
déja vu, 114
Descartes, René, 8, 45, 64, 69,
70, 72, 77, 147
deterministic systems, 80
developmental selection, 27–28,
30, 32
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders (DSM-III),
117–118
differential reproduction, 25
Dilthey, Wilhelm, 70–71
disconnection syndromes,
111–112
discriminations: and animals,
36–37, 40, 58, 144; and de-
generacy, 36, 90; and reentry,
36, 39, 58; and adaptive re-
sponses, 37, 58; and dynamic
core, 39, 40, 90; qualia as, 40,
58, 84, 86, 145; and brain-
based epistemology, 60;
and creativity, 99; and brain-
based devices, 139, 140
dopamine, 31, 59
dreams, 41, 100, 108, 120
dualism: of Descartes, 8, 45,
72; lack of, in consciousness
theory, 37, 72, 143, 149;
rejection of, in brain-based
epistemology, 152; and
epiphenomenalism, 167n4
duration, sense of, 93
dynamic core: and integrative
activity, 36, 38–40, 58, 127;
and discriminations, 39, 40,
90; causal activity of, 92, 155;
two dynamic cores, 112;
adaptive advantages of, 144
dyslexias, 110
Index
189
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 189
ecology, 80, 81
econiches, 25, 55, 102, 140
economics, 78
ego, 119, 120
ego defense, 108
eliminative materialism, 73
emotions: and thought, 10, 90; as
aspect of awareness, 13; effect
on knowledge, 60, 64, 65; and
knowledge acquisition, 65,
96; and brain function, 77;
and value systems, 94, 95
empiricism, 45, 148
Enlightenment, 70
environment: brain, body, envi-
ronment interaction, 3, 10–11,
34, 56, 57, 65, 126–127; and
brain map formation, 56;
and schizophrenia, 116; and
bipolar disorders, 117; and
robots, 130; and brain-based
devices, 131, 133, 134, 138
epilepsy, 111, 114
epiphenomenalism, 92, 167n4
episodic memory: and brain-
based devices, 128, 139; in
animals, 136
epistemology: death of episte-
mology school, 44, 45, 67; as
theory of knowledge, 44–45;
and psychology, 46–49, 50,
54, 96, 148; genetic episte-
mology, 47, 48; evolutionary
epistemology, 50–52, 54,
153; gaps in, 67. See also
brain-based epistemology;
naturalized epistemology;
traditional epistemology
error, 82–83, 104–5, 155
essentialism, 45
ethics: and normative issues, 10,
74, 78, 84, 91; and history,
81, 85; and animal experi-
mentation, 131; and brain-
based devices, 140–141;
and scientific reductionism,
146; and brain-based episte-
mology, 156
everyday experience, and scien-
tific explanations, 2, 66,
164n11
evolution: and signal pathways
of brain, 19; of conscious-
ness, 24, 36, 58, 143; and
econiches, 25; and natural
selection, 26, 27; of thalamo-
cortical system, 39, 58; of
brain mechanisms, 54–55;
and brain, 55–56, 64–65, 77,
82, 85; and reentry, 55, 86,
144; of cognitive capacities,
77; and history, 80; and value
systems, 101; and knowledge
acquisition, 149; of hominids,
150, 154; and brain-based
epistemology, 152
Index
190
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 190
evolutionary epistemology,
50–52, 54, 153
evolutionary psychology,
51–52, 153
excitatory synapses, 19
experienced time, 93
experiential selection, 28, 30
Feinberg, T. E., 168n4
fetal development, 56
formal analysis, 65
formal operations stage, 47
Forster, E. M., 101, 167–168n2
foundationalism, 45, 46, 64, 149
fractals, 80
free will, 94, 99, 100
Freud, Sigmund, 41, 49, 95,
108–109, 117, 119–122,
155–156
Freudian analysis, 81
frontal cortex, 16, 37
future, concept of, 15, 38, 61,
93, 155
Gaddis, John Lewis, 79–80, 81
Galilei, Galileo, 6–7, 8, 69, 82,
89, 147, 150
general relativity, 6–7
generator of diversity (GOD),
27, 31
genes, and selection, 51, 52
genetic code, 33
genetic epistemology, 47, 48
geology, 80–81
gestalt responses, 103
Gould, Stephen Jay, 166n14,
170n6
habits, 39
habitual responses, 93–94
Haeckel, Ernst Heinrich, 49, 109
hard sciences, 2, 10
hemineglect syndrome, 113
Heraclitean illusion, 93, 94, 155
hermeneutics, 71, 72, 77
higher-order consciousness:
and language, 38, 148; and
syntax, 60–61; and science,
85; and discriminations, 90;
and concepts of past and fu-
ture, 93; and modification of
set points of value systems,
95; cultural consequences
of, 97; and recombination
among core states, 104; and
metaphor, 122; and abnormal
states, 124; and brain-based
devices, 139; and brain-based
epistemology, 154
hippocampus: and brain struc-
ture, 16, 17; and memory, 17,
21, 128; of animals, 136–137,
138; and brain-based devices,
136, 137–138
Hirstein, W., 168n4
historical truths, 67, 69
Index
191
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 191
history: as human science, 71,
72; historical context of
brain development, 77; sci-
entific history, 77–81; and
uniqueness of historical
events, 81; historical con-
text of science, 82, 85; and
qualitative judgment and
interpretation, 84; complex-
ity of historical processes,
87; individual history, 121,
122, 146–147
Homo sapiens, 54, 55, 85
humanism, 77
human sciences, 2, 69, 71, 72
Hume, David, 84, 91
Huxley, T. H., 67, 165n13
hypochondriasis, 118, 119
hysterical neuroses, 118–119
id, 119–120
illusions: bases of, 9–10; and
brain-based epistemology,
65; and pattern recognition,
82; consciousness subjected
to, 89, 91, 92–93; and de-
scription of nature, 89; Hera-
clitean illusion, 93, 94, 155;
and neuropsychology, 109;
and individual history, 121
images and imagery: as aspect
of awareness, 13; and brain
speaking to itself, 32, 57; and
discriminatory responses, 60;
processes of, 65; and recombi-
natorial and integrative power
of brain events, 100; and
combinatorial freedom, 103
image schemata, 153
imagination: as dependent
on consciousness, 8; and
metaphor, 58, 61; and sci-
ence, 89, 156; and language,
90; and memory, 100
immune system, as selectional
system, 26–27, 100–101, 102
individual experiences, variance
in, 21
infantile sexuality, 108, 119
inferotemporal cortex, 134, 135
informational machines, 128
inhibitory synapses, 19
intentionality: and conscious
states, 14, 39, 147–148; and
naturalized epistemology,
47, 64; cultural factors in, 66,
84; and history, 78; display
of, in consciousness, 89; and
thought, 90; and recombina-
torial and integrative power
of brain events, 100; and
Quine, 147
intraparietal sulci, 62–63
intuition, 47
invented machines, 128–129
irreversible processes, 80
Index
192
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 192
James, William, 4, 14, 72
Johnson, Mark, 153
Kant, Immanuel, 45, 64
knowledge: and how we know,
2, 3; consciousness as process
whose function is knowing,
4; and truth, 10, 151; episte-
mology as theory of, 44–45;
and language, 44, 55, 66, 151;
and embodiment of brain,
46; Piaget on, 47–48; and
evolutionary psychology, 52;
development of, 60, 64; emo-
tion’s effect on, 60, 64, 65;
splits in forms of, 67, 69–75,
78–79; dependency on con-
scious states, 86–87; instru-
mental and moral value of,
141; qualia as discriminative
forms of knowledge, 151; and
brain-based epistemology,
152. See also epistemology
knowledge acquisition: and
brain activity, 42; and natural
selection, 51, 153; and brain-
based epistemology, 54, 66;
and intentionality, 64; and
emotion, 65, 96; and brain-
body relationship, 114; and
evolution, 149
Korsakoff psychosis, 116
Kronecker, Leopold, 63
Lakoff, George, 153
Lamarck, Jean, 109
Langley, Samuel, 1
language: and remembered pres-
ent, 15; and higher-order con-
sciousness, 38, 148; true lan-
guage, 38, 90, 139, 154; and
knowledge, 44, 55, 66, 151;
and traditional epistemology,
44, 60, 63–64, 96; multiple
language learning ability, 56;
and brain-based epistemol-
ogy, 60–62, 65–66, 154; and
conceptual power, 61, 154;
and logic, 61–62, 85, 148;
and mathematics, 62–63;
thought preceding, 63, 153;
and intentionality, 84; and
metaphor, 90; and loss of
specificity, 101–102; and dis-
cursive sequences of thought,
103; ambiguities of, 122; and
abnormal states, 124; and
brain-based devices, 139;
language acquisition as epi-
genetic, 154
language comprehension, 110
language production, 110
learned behavior, 39
learning: and synaptic strength
changes, 32; and association,
34; and error correction, 83;
and conscious states, 86; and
Index
193
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 193
learning (continued)
specificity and range, 102; and
brain-based devices, 128; and
brain-based epistemology, 155
legal truth, 69
lexicon, 38, 61
liberalism, and brain-based
devices, 127, 138–139
locus coeruleus, 30–31
logic: precision of, 58, 60; rela-
tion to pattern recognition,
58, 65, 82–83, 90; relation to
metaphor, 59, 61, 90; and lan-
guage, 61–62, 85, 148; and
science as form of knowledge,
73; and cognitive capacities,
77; and history, 78; and scien-
tific insight, 91; development
of, 96–97; and traditional
epistemology, 96; as mode of
thought, 103; and specificity
and range, 103–104; and
brain-based epistemology,
152, 154
logical positivism, 73
logical truth, 67, 69
long-term memory, 103, 137
lymphocytes, 26–27, 100
macaque monkeys, 63
Manifest Image, 164n11
mathematics: precision of, 58,
60; and brain-based episte-
mology, 60, 152, 154; and
language, 62–63; and truth,
66–67, 69; and science as
form of knowledge, 73; and
cognitive capacities, 77;
and study of stable mental
objects, 85; and scientific in-
sight, 91; and combinatorial
freedom, 103; and imagina-
tive pattern recognition, 148
meaning, 91, 96
memory: as aspect of aware-
ness, 13; and brain structure
and dynamics, 13, 77, 90; and
hippocampus, 17, 21, 128;
and patterns of changes in
synaptic strength, 19, 32, 37;
and value systems, 32–33,
36, 37, 58; and association,
33, 34, 36; and naturalized
epistemology, 47; and brain
speaking to itself, 57; as dy-
namic, 59; and discrimina-
tory responses, 60; processes
of, 65; and self’s reliance on
conscious experience, 83;
and imagination, 100; and
specificity and range, 102–103;
Freud on, 108, 119; and brain-
based devices, 128, 138, 139;
episodic memory, 128, 136,
139; in animals, 136–137,
139; and perceptual catego-
Index
194
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 194
rization, 148; and brain-
based epistemology, 155; and
subcortical systems, 156
Mendelian genetics, 7
mental events: and physical
events, 9; and eliminative
materialism, 73; and causal-
ity, 91–92, 94
mental operations, and tradi-
tional epistemology, 45
metaphor: and thought, 58–59,
65, 90, 122, 153; associative
powers of, 61, 83, 122; and
pattern recognition, 83;
Freud’s use of, 108–109,
120, 121. See also computer
metaphor
microelectronics, 129
mind: repudiation of, 3; and
nature, 8; and natural selec-
tion, 9, 82, 159–160n7; as
essence, 41
Moore, G. E., 84
Morris water maze, 137
motivation, 96
motor systems: movement and
brain activity, 24; and percep-
tual categories, 57; uniqueness
of motor output, 59; and basal
ganglia, 61; learned conse-
quences of motor acts, 62;
and brain function, 77; and
thought as motoric without
action, 103, 123, 153, 168n3;
and brain-based devices, 139
multicausal processes, 80
Munduruku people, 62, 63
nameable self, 15
naturalism, 149
naturalistic fallacy, 66, 84, 94
naturalized epistemology: as
modification of epistemol-
ogy, 2, 44; and psychology,
46, 47, 49, 50; and causality,
47; and Neural Darwinism,
58; and truth, 62, 69; and de-
velopment of knowledge, 64;
and science and humanities,
77; brain-based epistemology
contrasted with, 86, 147
natural sciences, 71, 72
natural selection: and under-
standing of life, 7; and mind,
9, 82, 159–160n7; as differ-
ential reproduction, 25; and
evolution, 26, 27; and value
systems in brain, 30; and
knowledge acquisition, 51,
153; and brain-based episte-
mology, 54, 64; and brain
evolution, 77, 82, 143; and
history, 80, 81; and cognitive
capacities, 84; and Wallace,
143, 159–160n7; and individ-
ual history, 147
Index
195
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 195
nature: interaction with human
nature, 4; conception of, 6,
100; effect of scientific tech-
nology on, 6; domains of, 7;
and mind, 8; value-free
veridical description of, 89;
reconciliation with second
nature, 143. See also second
nature
Neural Darwinism: and brain
activity, 13, 160n1; tenets of
theory, 27–28, 30; and
uniqueness of individual
brains, 31; and brain areas,
32; and neuronal groups, 34;
and reentry, 38–39; and de-
generacy, 57; and naturalized
epistemology, 58; and analy-
sis of conscious states,
86–87; and creativity, 99,
100, 123; and origin of two
conscious respondents, 112;
and abnormal states, 123;
and intentionality, 148; and
foundationalism and dual-
ism, 149; and knowledge,
153; and science and humani-
ties, 156. See also brain as
selectional system
Neurath, Otto, 73, 165n12
neuroanatomy, 21, 130
neuronal groups: and variations
in selectional brain, 28, 155;
and reentry, 30; repertoires
of, 31, 34; and degeneracy,
33–34; causal powers of, 37;
and selection, 86, 149; and
brain-based devices, 135,
136. See also theory of neu-
ronal group selection (TNGS)
neurons: structure of, 16, 18;
synaptic connections between,
16, 17, 18, 55; and brain as
selectional system, 27–28,
34; and locus coeruleus,
30–31; in parietal cortex,
62–63; and language, 66
neurophysiology, 19, 92
neuropsychological syndromes/
diseases: and brain-based
epistemology, 10, 65; and
constructive nature of brain
action, 104; brain damage
as cause of, 107, 111; and
normal brain function, 108;
classic examples of, 109–111;
and strokes, 110, 113–114;
confabulation in, 111, 112–
113, 115, 122; and disconnec-
tion syndromes, 111–113;
and brain-body relationship,
113, 114; and reentrant thala-
mocortical interactions,
115–116; nontechnical books
on, 168n4
neuropsychology, 109–110
Index
196
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 196
neuroscience: and epistemology,
54; and distortions of knowl-
edge, 65; and evolution of
cognitive capacities, 77; and
neuropsychology, 109–110;
and animal experimentation,
131; and consciousness, 147;
and brain-based epistemol-
ogy, 148
Neurosciences Institute, La Jolla,
Calif., 10, 128, 131
neuroses: and normative stan-
dards, 107; and boundaries
of normal behavior, 108;
theory of, 108, 109, 117, 121,
124; and conversion symp-
toms, 118–119; symptom
complexes in, 118; and psy-
choanalytic theory, 119–120;
and behavior, 122
neurotransmitters: and
synapses, 16, 17, 18; and
value systems in brain,
30–31, 59
NOMAD (neurally organized
mobile adaptive device), 133
nonconscious brain systems,
104, 155
noradrenaline, 31
numerical approximation, 62
obsessive-compulsive disorder,
118
operant conditioning, and logic,
62
orbitofrontal cortex, 115
organic brain disease, 109
paleontology, 80–81
panpsychism, 143, 152
paraphasia, 110
parietal cortex, 16, 37, 62–63,
113, 168n3
passive machines, 128
past, concept of, 15, 38, 61, 93,
155
pattern recognition: and brain,
20, 154; and brain as selec-
tional system, 58–59, 82,
83–84; lack of precision in,
58–59; relation to logic, 58,
65, 82–83, 90; and knowl-
edge acquisition, 96; as mode
of thought, 103; and speci-
ficity and range, 103; and
need to close a pattern, 113,
155; and scientific hypotheses,
146; and mathematics, 148
perceptions: and scientific
theory, 8, 72, 74; and brain
structure and dynamics, 13,
77; and degenerate circuits,
33–34; and reentrant activity,
36; and posterior cortical re-
gions, 37, 58; as existing in-
dependently in world, 41; and
Index
197
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 197
perceptions (continued)
discriminatory responses, 60;
and brain-based epistemol-
ogy, 86, 152; and creativity,
100, 123
perception-Turing machine, 140,
169–170n5
perceptual categorization: and
sensory systems, 20, 57; and
global mappings, 57; and
behavior, 59; origin of, 65;
and brain as selectional
system, 101; and brain-based
devices, 128, 138; and con-
sciousness, 148
personality theory, 117, 124
phenomenology, 77
philosophy, as human science, 71
philosophy of the organism, 72
phobic neuroses, 118
physical causation, 40, 64, 71, 74
physical events, and mental
events, 9
physics: Galileo’s effect on, 6,
150; and sensations and per-
ceptions, 8, 72; and beliefs,
46; and naturalized episte-
mology, 64; and conscious
thought, 65, 91; theoretical
physics, 73–74; astrophysics,
81; and cognitive capacities,
84; solid-state physics, 129;
and qualia, 145; and biology,
149; and brain-based episte-
mology, 152, 153
Piaget, Jean, 47–49, 52, 54
Pierce, Charles Saunders, 123
place cells, 137, 138
planning, 36–37, 55, 58, 83, 93,
144
plate tectonics, 81
Plato, 45, 162n3
Popper, Karl, 51, 170n6
population thinking, 25
postmodernists, 71
pragmatism, 123, 152
prefrontal cortex, 55, 61, 168n3
preoperational stage, 47
primary consciousness, 15, 36,
38
propositional attitudes, 78, 152,
166n3
propositions, 63
proprioceptive system, 56
prosopagnosia, 110, 114
psychiatric syndromes/diseases,
10, 107, 117
psychoanalytic theory, 108–109,
119–122
psychology: and epistemology,
46–49, 50, 54, 96, 148; evolu-
tionary psychology, 51–52,
153; as human science, 71;
schools of, 72–73; and his-
tory, 81; neuropsychology,
109–110
Index
198
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 198
psychomotor seizures, 40
psychoses, 107, 108, 116–117,
122
punishments, 59, 83, 94
qualia: and consciousness theory,
14–15; and thalamocortical
system, 37; variety of, 37,
144; and conscious states,
39, 86; as discriminations
entailed by core states, 40,
58, 84, 86, 145; and creativity,
104; and human phenotype,
140; origin of, 143, 144; and
physics, 145; as discrimina-
tive forms of knowledge, 151
qualified realism, 154–155
quantum mechanics, 6
Quine, Willard Van Orman: and
naturalized epistemology,
2–3, 46, 47, 86; and physical
bases of consciousness, 54;
and truth, 62, 67; and devel-
opment of knowledge, 64;
and indeterminacy in lan-
guage, 90; and sensory recep-
tors, 147, 148
rationalism, 45
reasoning, 49–50, 149
recapitulation, 49
reciprocal connections, within
brain, 29, 32
reductionism. See scientific
reductionism
reentry: and signal pathways,
28, 29, 30; and brain areas,
32, 57; and discriminations,
36, 39, 58; and lack of dual-
ism, 37; and emergence of
conscious experience, 38–39,
58; and symbolic and seman-
tic reference, 38; and subjec-
tivity of consciousness, 42;
and evolution, 55, 86, 144;
and brain-based devices, 136
remembered present, 15, 38, 93,
155
repression, 108, 119, 120
res cogitans (thinking things), 8,
72, 91
res extensa (extended things), 8, 72
retrospective prophecy, 67,
165n13
rewards, 31, 59, 83, 94
Richerson, Peter J., 55, 66
robots, 128, 130, 138
Rorty, Richard, 45
Sacks, Oliver, 168n4
salience, 59
schizophrenia, 107, 116
Schrödinger, Erwin, 8, 72, 74
science: development of, 48,
49, 69; unified system of sci-
ences, 70, 73–74, 165n12;
Index
199
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 199
science (continued)
and science wars, 71; and
logical positivism, 73; histori-
cal context of, 82, 85, 87; aim
of, 89; and error, 105. See also
neuroscience
science and humanities: differ-
ing views of world, 1–2;
divorce between, 2, 8, 10,
69–75, 77, 84; relation
between, 85–87, 91, 156
scientific descriptions, experience
distinguished from, 150, 151
scientific explanations, and
everyday experience, 2, 66,
164n11
scientific history, 77–81
Scientific Image, 164n11
scientific inquiry: and conscious-
ness, 8, 9, 149, 156–157; and
verifiable truth, 8, 66, 69, 71,
85, 89, 105, 156; and forma-
tion of precise concepts, 60, 84
scientific insight, 91
scientific methodology, and
brain events, 7–8
scientific reductionism: and
theory of everything, 73–74;
and science and humanities,
77, 85–86; and history, 79;
and consilience, 84; limita-
tions on, 91; and theory of
neuroses, 109; and epigenetic
rules of brain science, 143;
and ethics and aesthetics,
146; and evolutionary episte-
mology, 153
scientific technology, 6
second nature: meaning of, 4,
164n11; conception of, 6;
scientific explanation of, 66,
146; observation of outside
world contrasted with, 70;
and creativity, 99–100; recon-
ciliation with nature, 143; and
truth, 150–151; origin and
limits of, 157. See also nature
selectional systems: immune
system as, 26–27, 100–101,
102; and degeneracy, 33–34,
83; and generation of diver-
sity, 100; and specificity and
range, 102, 103, 122; and
brain-based devices, 130.
See also brain as selectional
system
selectionism, and knowledge,
51–52
self: nameable self, 15; process
of emergence of, 37–38;
social self, 38, 61; reliance
on conscious experience, 83;
cognitive and emotional con-
struction of, 95; and Freud’s
Index
200
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 200
psychoanalytic theory,
119–120
Sellars, Wilfred, 164n11
semantics, 15, 40, 139
sensations: and scientific theory,
8, 72, 74; and brain activity,
24; and thought, 123
sensorimotor stage, 47
sensory receptors, and natural-
ized epistemology, 46, 47
sensory systems: sensory re-
sponses, 13; and perceptual
categorization, 20, 57; and
signal pathways, 20–21; and
degeneracy, 36; uniqueness
of sensory input, 59; and
basal ganglia, 61; and brain-
based epistemology, 86; and
brain-based devices, 139
serotonin, 31
short-term working memory,
102–103
signal pathways: and thalamus,
19, 20; and sensory systems,
20–21; and experiential
selection, 28; and reentry,
28, 29, 30
similes, 58–59, 83, 109
situatedness, 13
Skinner, B. F., 73
Snow, C. P., 72
social self, 38, 61
sociobiology, 51
socioeconomic models of
rational behavior, 81
sociology, 2, 73, 78
somatization disorders, 118,
119
somatosensory maps, 56–57
Spengler, Oswald, 79, 166n5
Sperry, Roger, 111–112
stereoscopic vision, 56
Strategic Reliabilism, 49–50
string theory, 74
strokes, 110, 113–114
Stroll, Avrum, 167n11
subcortical areas, 36, 110, 153,
156, 168n3
subcortical responses, 93–94
subjectivity: and scientific ex-
periments, 8; and conscious-
ness, 9, 42, 151; brain-based
subjectivity, 10; and unitary
experiences, 14; irreducibility
of, 84, 90
superego, 119–120
symbolic capabilities, 15
symbolization, 120
synapses: and neurotransmit-
ters, 16, 17, 18; plastic prop-
erty of, 19; strength changes
in, 19, 28, 31, 32, 37, 56, 102,
155; and brain-based devices,
134, 135, 136, 138
Index
201
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 201
synaptic connections: between
neurons, 16, 17, 18, 55; re-
cording of, 18–19; and corre-
lation of firing patterns, 28;
and brain-based devices, 134
syntax, 38, 60–61, 110, 139
Tarski, Alfred, 62
Taylor, Charles, 45
tertiary syphilis, 116
thalamocortical system: diagram
of, 29; and primary conscious-
ness, 36; and qualia, 37; evo-
lution of, 39, 58; and causality,
40, 92; and neuropsychologi-
cal syndromes/diseases, 115–
116; and brain-based devices,
127, 139; and neural corre-
lates of consciousness, 144
thalamus: and brain structure,
16, 17; and signal pathways,
19, 20; mediodorsal nucleus
of, 115. See also thalamocor-
tical system
theory of everything (TOE),
73–74
theory of neuronal group selec-
tion (TNGS), 30, 54, 57, 60,
61, 64. See also Neural Dar-
winism
thought: related to emotion, 10,
90; and brain speaking to it-
self, 57; and metaphor,
58–59, 65, 90, 122, 153; early
formulations of, 60; preced-
ing language, 63, 153; biolog-
ical origins of truth, 69, 96;
neural basis of, 90, 91, 153;
and combinatorial freedom,
103; logic as mode of, 103;
as motoric without action,
103, 123, 153, 168n3; pattern
recognition as mode of, 103;
inappropriate thoughts, 115;
and psychoanalytic theory,
121; and sensations, 123
time, passage of, 93
touch, 56
Toynbee, Arnold, 79, 166n5
traditional epistemology: and
knowledge as justified true
belief, 44–46, 96; and lan-
guage, 44, 60, 63–64, 96;
and validity and justification,
48, 50; critics of, 49, 55; and
development of knowledge,
64; and brain-based episte-
mology, 65, 104; scientific
basis for, 67; domains ex-
cluded from, 148
Trout, J. D., 49–50, 171n6
true language, 38, 90, 139, 154
truth: search for, 4; science in
service of verifiable truth, 8,
66, 69, 71, 85, 89, 105, 156;
and knowledge, 10, 151;
Index
202
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 202
meaning of, 44, 62; and tradi-
tional epistemology, 63–64,
96; differing forms of, 66–67,
69, 96–97, 150–151; biologi-
cal origins in thought, 69,
96; and unified system of sci-
ences, 70; and brain-based
epistemology, 148, 156; het-
erogeneous origins of, 149;
normative criteria for, 149;
physiology of, 149,
170–171n6
Turing, Alan, 129
Turing machine, 129, 140
unconscious brain activity, 99
unconscious processes, 108, 119,
120, 148, 155–156
unitary experience, conscious-
ness as, 13–14, 34, 39
unitary scenes, 39, 127
values, and theory of conscious-
ness, 9
value systems: in brain stem,
17; and brain as selectional
system, 30–31, 33, 59, 64,
82, 90, 94, 101; and memory,
32–33, 36, 37, 58; and evolu-
tion of adaptive behavior, 65;
qualia subject to, 86; modify-
ing set points of, 95; and
synaptic strength, 102; and
brain-based devices, 134, 135
Van’t Hoff, Jacobus Henricus, 89
Vico, Giambattista, 69–70, 71,
72, 79
Vienna Circle, 73, 165n12
vision, 19–20, 32
visual cortex, 16, 134
Voltaire, 165n13
Wallace, Alfred, 143, 159–160n7
Watson, John B., 73
Wernicke’s aphasia, 109, 110
Whewell, William, 74
Whitehead, Alfred North, 6, 72
Whorf, Benjamin, 62, 63
Wilson, E. O., 51, 74, 84, 166n14
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, 44
Index
203
16edelmanIdx.183_204 7/22/06 2:00 PM Page 203
