	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 17
application of Merge, in itself a quite elementary operation that simply combines
n syntactic objects to form a set. Importantly, Merge generates phrase-markers
without specifying linear order. For example, (15a) is just a set, and hence it does
not make any claim about the precedence-relation between α and β. For exposi-
tory convenience, we will sometimes represent Merge-based phrase-markers in
the form of tree diagrams, as in (15b), but it should be understood throughout this
book that such representations make no claims about linear order.9
	(15)	Merge(α, β)	=	 a.	 {α, β}
							
b.	
α β (order irrelevant)

(order irrelevant)
If applied to two elements, say the and apple, Merge generates a set {the, apple}:
	 (16)	 Merge(the, apple)	 =	 a.	 {the, apple}
								b.	
the apple
Provided that Merge can apply recursively, the output of Merge can constitute
another input to the same operation together with some other element, say eat,
yielding (17).
	 (17)	 Merge(eat, {the, apple})	 =	 a.	 {eat, {the, apple}}
									b.	
eat
the apple
Phrase-markers generated by recursive Merge can provide minimal but sufficient
information about compositional structure: (17) is a phrase that contains (or
“dominates” in earlier terms) three items eat, the and apple; the and apple form
a subconstituent to the exclusion of eat; eat is hierarchically the most prominent
element that c-commands all the other items in the phrase-marker, and so on.
Linear order is not implied in either the input or output of Merge, a desirable result.
Moreover, phrase-markers generated by recursive Merge as in (16) and (17)
are also “label-less.” The earlier X-bar-theoretic approach would state that the
(or apple) “projects” in (16), and that eat “projects” in (17), but nothing in the
9.	 Understood as such, (i) is as accurate a tree-graphic representation of (15a) as (15b) is.
	 (i)
	
β α
18	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
set-theoretic representations in (16)–(17) encodes such effects. Phrase-markers
generated by Merge such as (16) and (17) are by definition just sets, and no known
condition of set theory requires that they be associated with any “labels” or distinct
nonterminal symbols. Only further stipulations can guarantee label-assignment,
and therefore we must ask if such enrichment of UG, should there be any, is really
justifiable in terms of the SMT.
It should be noted that nonterminal symbols (labels) constituted necessary
input to and/or output of PSRs (consider, e.g., S in S → NP Infl VP). This was true
regardless of whether the symbols themselves were reduced to the combination
of projected features and bar-level indices, as claimed by X-bar theory. However,
Merge simply serves to structure constituents compositionally, to the exclusion of
labeling as well as linear order. In this manner, bare phrase structure departs from
the earlier hypothesis that the means of structure-generation (PSRs or schemata
thereof) encompass three kinds of information (compositional structure, labeling
and linear order).
Building on bare phrase structure, this book will aim to construct a theory
of syntax without labels/projection or linear order (precedence). That is, we
will explore to a fuller extent the decomposition of compositional structuring,
left-to-right ordering and endocentricity of phrase-markers, as envisaged in the
framework of bare phrase structure. Specifically, it will be argued that the proper
treatment of the three kinds of information in (8) that were once encapsulated into
PSR-schemata should be fully modularized into different components of FL: com-
positional structuring is taken care of by Merge; linearization (assignment of linear
order) is properly relegated to the phonological component (Spell-Out); there is
no mechanism of label-assignment/projection, and endocentricity is reduced to
some sort of minimal search principle, and hence to the effect of MC along the
lines suggested by Chomsky (2012, 2013).
2.2.2	 Merge, inclusiveness, and the No-Tampering Condition
It should be noted that for any sort of Merge-based computation to work, there
must exist some finite set of “atomic elements” that can serve as input to, but are not
themselves constructed by, Merge. We may call these “atoms” of syntactic computa-
tion lexical items (LIs), and refer to the collection of LIs stored in the human mind/
brain as the Lexicon. We really don’t know the internal composition of these LIs,
but to say the very least, each LI may contain some formal features that differentiate
it from the other LIs in their functions and distributions in narrow syntax (NS), as
well as some other intrinsic features that can contribute to interpretation at CI or
SM or both (semantic and phonological features, respectively).
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 19
Then, let us define the notion of syntactic object (SO) as follows:10
	(18)	Syntactic Object (SO):
		 Σ is a syntactic object (SO) iff
		 a.	 Σ is an LI, or
		 b.	 Σ is a set {Σ1, . . . , Σn}, where Σ1, . . . , Σn are SOs.
According to this definition, SOs are either LIs or set-theoretic objects constructed
from LIs by means of recursive Merge. In what follows, we may specifically refer
to SOs that are not part of any larger SOs as root SOs.
We can further define a set of primitive relations in the theory of SOs. First,
applying to two SOs α and β, Merge establishes the relation constitute for {α, β} as
defined in (19).
	(19)	Constitute (Consist-of):
		α and β constitute γ (or conversely, γ consists of α and β) if γ is the output of
Merge(α, β).
Constitute (or consists-of) is an irreflexive, asymmetric, nontransitive, and nonas-
sociative relation.11 Moreover, the term-of relation can be defined as follows (cf.
Chomsky 1995b: 247, et seq.), assuming composition of relations:
	(20)	Term-of:
		 For any SO K,
		 a.	 K is a term of K;
		 b.	 If K is a term of L and K = {Σ1, . . . , Σn}, then Σ1, . . . , Σn are terms of L.
Term-of is a reflexive and transitive relation as in (20a). I further assume that the
constitute and term-of relations are established derivationally and step by step,
by means of recursive application of Merge. That is to say, I adopt Epstein et al.
(1998) and Epstein’s (1999) derivationalist hypothesis that syntactic relations
are not unexplained (stipulated) definitions based on already built-up syntactic
10.	 Guimarães (2000), Kayne (2009), and Fukui (2011) argue that Merge should also be able to
create singleton-sets of the form {α}. We will also hint at the possibility of singleton-formation
by unary Merge in note 21 of Chapter 4, which can be readily accommodated by the definition
of SO in (18).
11.	 The “constitute”-relation is reminiscent of the “is-a” relation in Chomsky (1955/1975b, 1957)
(see also Lasnik et al. 2000). Since “is-a” is defined as a relation between a linear sequence of
terminal symbols and a nonterminal symbol in phrase-markers, it is unformulable in bare phrase
structure where no notion of linear order is available in NS. Nonterminal symbols and labels
are similarly unformulable, as I will argue in Chapter 3. Incidentally, being nontransitive, the
constitute-relation is distinct from the traditional notion of “dominance.”
20	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
representations, but rather are properties of independently motivated elementary
operations themselves.
Note that so long as SOs respect the definition in (18), they will satisfy the
formal condition of Inclusiveness (cf. Chomsky 1995b: Chapter 4; Chomsky
2000a: 113), which holds that no elements absent from the Lexicon are added to
linguistic representations in the course of syntactic derivation:
	(21)	Inclusiveness Condition (IC):
		 No elements absent from the Lexicon are introduced in the course of syntactic
derivation.
Further, the theory of SOs as defined in (18) also satisfies the No-Tampering
Condition (NTC), as defined in (22).12
	(22)	No-Tampering Condition (NTC):
		 No elements introduced by syntax are deleted or modified in the course of
syntactic derivation.
Insofar as the generative power of syntax is properly restricted by these strict con-
ditions, its computation essentially reduces to rearrangement of the elements and
features provided by the Lexicon. The question is, then, how much of the computa-
tion of FL can be shown to satisfy these conditions. Put in other words, it is an open
empirical question how closely the classes of SEM- and PHON-representations
can be approximated by the class of SOs as defined in (18), satisfying the IC and
the NTC. It may turn out that actual SEM and PHON subsume more complicated
structures than pure SOs, containing additional features that are absent in the
initial array of LIs, and/or undergoing deletion of some elements that are once
introduced to the derivation. If this is what we find as a matter of fact, the theory
of syntax must be supplemented with some devices other than Merge to insert the
newly added features and/or delete the introduced elements. Hypotheses about
these devices, be they insertion or deletion operations, would bear a heavy burden
of empirical justification, and would also pose a serious question as to how such
devices could emerge in the course of evolution/development of human language.
12.	 The original NTC in Chomsky (2008: 138), given in (i), was formulated specifically in terms
of Merge:
	 (i)	 Merge of α and β leaves the two SOs unchanged (cf. Chomsky 2008).
Indeed, if we restrict our attention to the simplest formulation of Merge, namely an operation of
set-formation, it is just an operation that does nothing more than combine SOs, and therefore it
cannot modify the elements that constitute the input to this operation. The NTC as formulated
in (22) is thus trivially satisfied. Here I am reformulating the NTC as a more general ban on
tampering with elements introduced by syntax.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 21
2.2.3	 Restricting the generative capacity
It is not widely acknowledged that the IC and the NTC are rooted in much ear-
lier concerns of descriptive and explanatory adequacy. It has been an important
research guideline in the earlier transformational generative grammar that the
generative power of grammars should be severely restricted in order to approach
descriptive and explanatory adequacy (see in particular Chomsky 1965 and also
Lasnik 1990). Specifically, once it is allowed to insert or delete elements in the
course of derivation, the generative capacity may become overpowerful. To present
the concern with some extreme examples, a grammar with unrestricted insertion
will fail to exclude the possibility of generating (23a, b) from the same initial input
for (23), and a grammar with unrestricted deletion or modification will fail to
exclude converse transformations from (23a, b) to (23), or various “wild deletion/
modification rules” like those represented in (23c–f) ( : “is mapped to”).
	 (23)	 John believes that Bill never kissed Mary.
		
* 	a.	John never believes that Bill never kissed Mary.
		
* 	 b.	 John believes that Susan denied that Bill never kissed Mary.
	 (No “wild insertion” rule)
		
* 	c.	⊘ Bill never kissed Mary.
		
* 	 d.	 John believes that Bill ⊘ kissed Mary. (No “wild deletion” rule)
		
* 	 e.	 John believes that Susan never kissed Mary.
		
* 	f.	 John believes that Bill never hit Mary. (No “wild modification” rule)
This is clearly an undesirable result, so everybody agrees that rules of insertion and
tampering should be restricted rather severely in their applicability. The question
is how, and to what extent. Various proposals have been made in the literature
to address this question. As for deletion, the so-called “recoverability condition
on deletion” is one of the major proposals to restrict its generative power: see
Chomsky (1965: Chapters 3–4) and Peters & Ritchie (1973) among others. As for
the restriction on insertion, see, e.g., Chomsky (1970, 1973, 1986a, 1995b), Emonds
(1970, 1976), Stowell (1981), and Lasnik (1990) among many others. The question
of the extent to which syntax satisfies the IC and the NTC can be regarded as a
modern restatement of the same old concern, rooted in the earlier considerations
of descriptive and explanatory adequacy and now further regarded as grounded in
computational efficiency, closely tied to the overarching desideratum of MC (6).
It is instructive to recall that violations of the IC and the NTC were practically
inevitable in the earlier conception of transformational grammar. It was assumed
therein that the skeletal structure of a sentence was generated by PSRs, and then
mapped to the transformational structure (s(urface)-structure, LF, etc.) by means
of transformational rules (transformations). Transformations are mappings from
22	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
a phrase-marker to another phrase-marker, and they prototypically involve mas-
sive insertion and tampering. For example, it was assumed in the transformational
grammar of English that the transformation in (24), called wh-movement, maps,
e.g., the phrase-marker in (25a) to the one in (25b). In the course of this opera-
tion, the wh-phrase is inserted at COMP (cf. Bresnan 1970, 1972), and the original
occurrence of a wh-phrase is deleted and replaced with a newly inserted trace,
probably accompanied by another insertion of identical indices to the wh-phrase
and the trace (cf. Chomsky 1973, 1975a et seq.).
	(24)	Wh-movement:
		 structural analysis (SA):	 X — COMP 	 — Y — wh-phrase — Z
		 structural change (SC):	 X — wh-phrasei — Y — ti	 — Z
	 (25)	 (Guess) [what the boy will eat]
		a.	
NP
will
boy
the
S′
COMP S
D N
Infl VP
eat
V NP
what
N
		b.	
NP
will
boy
the
S′
COMP S
D N
Infl
whati
VP
eat
V NP
ti
N
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 23
As representatively shown by this example, transformations are by their very nature
rules of insertion and tampering, and every application of a transformation violates
the IC and the NTC. Correspondingly, it was practically impossible to even formu-
late the IC and the NTC. This partially explains why the formulations of the IC and
the NTC had to await four to five decades after Chomsky (1955/1975b, 1957) put
forward transformational generative grammar, though the concerns have arguably
persisted throughout the history of generative linguistics.
As we saw above, the notion of SOs in bare phrase structure (18) nicely keeps
to the bounds of the IC and the NTC, thus providing a novel approach to the
above-mentioned concern of descriptive and explanatory adequacy. Importantly,
unrestricted Merge in (15) also provides a radical simplification of earlier move-
ment transformations (see Chomsky 2004, 2007a, 2008). Suppose that two SOs α
and β are subjected to Merge, forming {α, β}. It must be the case that α and β are
two independent objects, as in (26), or that one of them (say α) is part of the other
(β), as in (27).
	(26)	α, β	 {α, β}
		 α β
α β
Merge
	(27)	[β . . . α . . . ]	 {α, [β . . . α . . . ]}
	 β
…α…
…α…
α β
Merge
The case in (26) is referred to as External Merge (EM), and the case in (27) Internal
Merge (IM). Chomsky’s (2004 et seq.) definition of EM vs. IM is given in (28).
	(28)	External Merge vs. Internal Merge (Chomsky 2004 et seq.):
		Merge(α, β) counts as Internal Merge (IM) if one of α, β is a term of the other.
		 If not, Merge(α, β) counts as External Merge (EM).
On the one hand, EM yields a rather familiar mode of compositional structuring.
For example, EM can combine the and apple, forming {the, apple}, and this set can
be further merged externally with eat, forming {eat, {the, apple}}, and so on. On
the other hand, unless stipulated otherwise, Merge should be able to take two SOs
24	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
one of which is part of the other, yielding IM. As shown, application of IM yields
two copies of α in {α, β}, one external to β, one within β.
Chomsky (1993, 2004) ingeniously proposes that movement transformations
can be replaced with IM. For example, nothing should prevent Merge of the whole
structure (29a) with the instance of what internal to it, yielding IM of what.
	(29)	a.	
Merge
C
we
Infl
see what
		b.	
C
what
we
Infl
see what
If the lower copy of what stays unpronounced at Spell-Out, the SO in (29b) is
mapped to a linear sequence what—C—we—Infl—see at PHON, yielding phono-
logical displacement of what (see § 4.4 for my own proposal for the linearization
mechanism). This result is attained without violating the IC or the NTC, with traces
in earlier theories replaced by what has been called the “copy theory of movement”
(Chomsky & Lasnik 1993, Chomsky 1993). Compare it with, e.g., the trace-based
conception of wh-movement in (24)–(25). The copy theory has been proven to be
highly advantageous for the account of various properties of movement transfor-
mations, such as reconstruction effects (see Chomsky 1977, 1993, Freidin & Lasnik
1981 and others). If this reductive approach to movement is proven to be success-
ful, then, the whole variety of movement transformations can be reformulated as
an aspect of the basic operation Merge.
In this manner, the single operation of Merge elegantly unifies the accounts
of two very different aspects of syntactic computation, infinite structure-building
and movement. These were once treated very differently by PSRs and transforma-
tions in earlier theories, thus their unification under Merge is a real improvement.
Movement is a ubiquitous phenomenon observed in one way or another in every
natural language, a fact that was considered to be mysterious in earlier theories but
has ceased to be so in bare phrase structure: IM is as freely available as EM, thus
movement is as ubiquitous and natural a property of language as discrete infinity.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 25
In the following discussion, I will attempt to further approach the problems
posed by the IC (21) and the NTC (22). Specifically, I will put forward the hypoth-
esis that these derivatives of MC constitute a strong rationale for cyclic derivation
by phase (Chomsky 2000a et seq.; see also Uriagereka 1999). The theory of phases
presented in this chapter will provide the grounds for the proposals put forward
in the following chapters.
2.3	 Transfer: Compounding Interpret and Spell-Out
Hierarchically organized structures generated by NS are fed to SEM and PHON,
via the operations called Interpret and Spell-Out, respectively (cf. Chomsky 1995b,
Lasnik et al. 2005).
	(4)	
Interpret: the operation that maps SOs to SEM.
	(5)	
Spell-Out: the operation that maps SOs to PHON.
In principle, it may be that Interpret and Spell-Out apply only once per derivation,
as hypothesized by Chomsky (1995b), or more than once, as proposed on differ-
ent grounds by Uriagereka (1999), Chomsky (2000a) and much subsequent work.
Moreover, (4) and (5) do not specify whether the timing of Interpret and Spell-Out
always coincides (Chomsky 2004 and others) or is differentiable (see, e.g., Chomsky
1995b, Nissenbaum 2000, Marušič 2009). It is also an open question whether ap-
plication of these interfacing operations render the relevant SOs inaccessible for
further computation (Chomsky 2000a et seq.) or not (see, e.g., Fox & Pesetsky 2005,
Kato et al. 2014).
However, it is naturally expected that the third-factor principle of MC would
severely restrict the possible forms of Interpret and Spell-Out. Chomsky (2004:
107) argues that, “in the best case,” presumably determined by the third factor,
Interpret and Spell-Out always apply at the same point in the derivation, and fur-
ther, the domain subjected to them is “forgotten,” i.e., eliminated from the deriva-
tional workspace. Following Chomsky, we will call this operation Transfer:
	(30)	Transfer (preliminary version):
		 Transfer subjects an SO Σ to Interpret and Spell-Out, and eliminates Σ from
the derivational workspace.
There are several grounds for the view that Transfer meets the criteria of MC. Among
other things, it strongly contributes to efficient reduction of active workspace, satisfy-
ing one of the desiderata of MC, namely Minimal Workspace (MW) (31).
26	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(31)	Minimal Workspace (MW):
		 Syntax operates only within a minimal active workspace required for the
computation of SEM and PHON.
Specifically, I contend along with Chomsky (2000a, 2004, 2008) that the simul-
taneity of Interpret and Spell-Out readily allows NS to terminate access to the
relevant domain for later computation. In order to see this point, let us consider
what happens if Interpret and Spell-Out can apply independently of each other
(see, e.g., Nissenbaum 2000, Marušič 2009 for proposals to this effect). In this
system, it would be necessary for NS to keep track of which operation has ap-
plied to which SO. This would require some mechanism of marking such SOs as
Interpreted and/or Spelled-Out. The mechanism would take the form of either
(i) assigning features like [±Interpreted] and [±Spelled-Out] or the equivlent to
SOs in the derivational workspace, or (ii) deleting part of semantic and phono-
logical features of the relevant structures upon application of Interpret and Spell-
Out, tampering with the featural constitution of LIs and SOs.13 Crucially, note
that (i) would violate the IC (21), whereas (ii) would violate the NTC (22), thus
departing from the SMT. Moreover, even if either Interpret or Spell-Out can affect
SOs independently of the other, it is still inevitable for syntax to keep the relevant
“half-processed” SOs for later application of the other operation, running afoul
of MW (31). Consequently, Interpret/Spell-Out would always need to do some
inspection of the workspace and/or the derivational history to see which part of
the SOs it is “done” with and it can forget about for later computation. On the other
hand, compounding of Interpret and Spell-Out avoids such potential computa-
tional overload: if Interpret and Spell-Out always apply to the same SO together
at the same time, then, Transfer is arguably the most efficient way to terminate
further access to previously Interpreted/Spelled-Out SOs. This consideration gives
us strong motivation in favor of the hypotheses in (32)–(33):
	 (32)	 Interpret and Spell-Out apply simultaneously in the derivation.
	 (33)	 Further access by NS to SOs that have been subjected to both Interpret and
Spell-Out is terminated.
The composite of (32) and (33) amounts to Transfer (30). Thus, Transfer is the
mode of Interpret/Spell-Out that arises in the “best case” scenario as determined
by the interplay of MW (31), the IC (21) and the NTC (22).
13.	 (ii) is exactly what Chomsky (1995b, 2000a) proposes, introducing the notion of “modified
LIs” (MLIs). It is argued in Chomsky (2001) and later work that this notion should be dispensed
with.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 27
That said, it remains to be determined how syntax configures the mode of
applications of Transfer. Here, different economy considerations favor different
answers. For example, it is not unreasonable to suppose that one aspect of effi-
cient computation favors minimization of the memory load for the active syntactic
workspace, adhering to MW (31). To meet this end, it may be that Transfer should
apply as many times as there are applications of NS-operations (including Merge),
exploiting cyclic reduction of active domains to its limit, which yields Epstein &
Seely’s (2002, 2005) theory of Transfer. However, this approach inevitably clashes
with the other economy consideration that favors minimization of derivational
steps, which is sometimes referred to as the principle of economy of derivation
(Chomsky 1995b, Fukui 1996). According to this economy criterion, the number of
Transfer-applications should be kept as small as possible. To the limit, it reduces to
just one – the single Transfer model of Groat & O’Neil’s (1996) sort explores exactly
this scenario, but again with the cost of potential blow-up of memory load. Here,
we see a clear conflict between workspace minimization and step minimization,
both of which are aspects of the general principle of MC. However, we will see in
what follows that there are other considerations that enter into the determination
of the point of Transfer.
2.4	 Copy-identification and derivational simultaneity
2.4.1	 The bifurcation of External and Internal Merge
We saw in § 2.2 that the principle of MC restricts the form of Merge to simple set-
formation (34), free from labeling and linear order.14
	(34)	Merge(α, β)	=	a.	 {α, β}
						b.	
α β
(order irrelevant)
 (order irrelevant)
We saw that the formulation of Merge in (34) provides, without further stipulation,
both EM and IM for free (Chomsky 2004, 2007a, 2008). If two SOs α and β are
merged, constituting {α, β}, it may be either that α and β are two independent SOs,
as in (35), or that one of them (say α) is part of the other (β), as in (36).
14.	 I am indebted to Masanobu Sorida for his generous and enlightening discussion that has
helped me to articulate the hypotheses presented in § § 2.4.1–2.4.2. The idea that cyclic derivation
by phase (particularly the sort hypothesized by Chomsky 2007a, 2008) is a device that strongly
contributes to the IC is independently explored in different ways in Sorida (2011, 2012).
28	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(35)	α, β	 {α, β}
	 α β
α β
EM
	(36)	[β . . . α . . . ]	 {α, [β . . . α . . . ]}
	 β
…α…
…α…
α β
IM
It is quite natural to expect that the two modes of Merge, EM and IM, are exploited
in different manners by CI and SM. Chomsky (2008: 140) notes:
If the means of language are fully exploited by the interface systems, in accord with
a reasonable interpretation of SMT, then we would expect the two types of Merge
to have different effects at the interfaces. At the phonetic interface, they obviously
do; IM yields the ubiquitous displacement phenomenon. At the semantic interface,
the two types of Merge correlate well with the duality of semantics that has been
studied within generative grammar for almost forty years, at first in terms of “deep
and surface structure interpretation” (and of course with much earlier roots). To a
large extent, EM yields generalized argument structure (θ-roles, the “cartographic”
hierarchies, and similar properties); and IM yields discourse-related properties
such as old information and specificity, along with scopal effects. The correlation
is reasonably close, and perhaps would be found to be perfect if we understood
enough – an important research topic.
Indeed, such empirical generalizations as the duality of semantics, the ubiquity of
dislocation and the availability of interpretive reconstruction effects seem to be
quite well-established. Hence, we will assume that the dichotomy between EM and
IM is indeed exploited by CI and SM.
That said, the inherent computational cost of IM, or, more precisely, that of
copy identification at CI and SM, is not trivial. It is true that once syntax has Merge
as set-formation (34), IM comes for free, and its application should be “as free as
EM” (Chomsky 2008: 140). However, at the point of Transfer where a certain SO is
handed over to Interpret and Spell-Out, there must be a way to distinguish copies
created by IM from EMed items with identical syntactic constitution, since other-
wise CI and SM cannot exploit the natural bifurcation of EM and IM for interpre-
tive purposes. To see the problem clearly, let us suppose that an SO α is externally
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 29
merged with another SO β, which contains a term whose syntactic constitution is
indistinguishable from α. The situation can be schematized as in (37):
	(37)	α, [β . . . α . . . ]	 {α, [β . . . α . . . ]}
		 β
…α…
…α…
α β
EM
α
Note that the result of external merger of α and β in (37) is representationally iden-
tical with that of internal merger of α and β in (36). The problem that FL faces is
hence to store the distinction between IM in (36) and EM in (37) by the time {α,
β} are subjected to Transfer; otherwise CI and SM cannot exploit the two modes
of Merge for interpretation.
It has been customary to trivialize this computational problem by introduc-
ing devices such as “referential indices”15 in the course of linguistic computation.
These hypothetical constructs are not so much an expression of theoretical insights
into the nature of UG as artificial technology to meet or circumvent descriptive
demands. However, under the assumption that FL meets the IC (21), such de-
scriptive apparatus is strictly barred in the MP. Hence, we need an alternative ap-
proach to the differentiation of IM from EM that makes no reference to resultant
representations.
The problem in question is derivational in nature. The only real difference
between IM and EM of α to β is that, at the point of application of Merge(α, β), α
is selected from the terms of β in the former while not in the latter. This distinc-
tion should be made available at Transfer, which amounts to reconstruction of
the selectional procedure in the derivational history. It is a form of “backtrack-
ing,” which induces a large-scale computational load. To respect MC, backtracking
is disfavored, and hence to be avoided as much as possible. Specifically for the
purpose of reconstructing IM, then, the timing difference (in the derivational
sense) between its application and Transfer of the relevant SO must be minimized.
Optimally, the time difference reduces to zero, as is expected from the perspective
of computational efficiency. Arguably, then, the best way for syntax to meet this
end is to subject a given derivation to Transfer simultaneously with IM.
15.	 Or much more complicated structures referred to as “assignment functions,” as commonly
adopted in the literature on modern formal semantics. See, e.g., Heim & Kratzer (1998).
30	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Given these considerations, just like the case of Interpret and Spell-Out dis-
cussed in the previous section, the principle of MC derives derivational simultane-
ity of IM and Transfer (see Chomsky 2007a, 2008; see also Hiraiwa 2005).
	 (38)	 IM applies simultaneously with Transfer.
Note that externally merged SOs need not be identified with any other SOs. Unlike
IM, then, EM does not require backtracking. EM is hence not required to apply
simultaneously with Transfer, contrasting sharply with IM.
The discussion here partially corroborates the hypothesis established in § 2.3
that derivational simultaneity of Interpret and Spell-Out contributes to MC: it is
presumably the case that both CI and SM exploit the bifurcation of EM and IM
for different interpretive purposes, and thus the consideration of backtracking
minimization applies to both Interpret and Spell-Out. Hence, both Interpret and
Spell-Out are required to apply simultaneously with IM.
I am not primarily claiming here that we can technically circumvent the
problem of inclusiveness by stipulating that IM applies at the same time with
Transfer. Rather, my stronger claim is that it is the satisfaction of the IC (21) that
leads syntax to adopt derivational simultaneity of IM and Transfer, as a necessary
result of MC.
It remains to be determined what sort of information is subjected to Transfer
when it is in concert with IM. We will come back to this problem in § 2.5.
2.4.2	 Derivational simultaneity of Value/Agree and Transfer
Since Merge is just a set-formation operation, it cannot rearrange elements internal
to already-formed SOs, satisfying the NTC (22). Merge is arguably the simplest
possible recursive operation for symbol manipulation, so the null hypothesis is that
all formal arrangement in syntactic computation is achieved by Merge. However,
empirical evidence suggests that something that cannot be naturally expressed by
Merge is also at stake in human language: linguistic expressions exhibit certain
covariation of morpho-phonolgical or semantic features among multiple elements
that possibly range over non-sister relations. In English there-expletive construc-
tions like (39), for example, the main verb exhibits apparently long-distance agree-
ment in number with an associate NP. Similarly, gender marking on determiners
and adjectives in Romance nominals covaries with the inherent gender specifica-
tion of a head noun, yielding nominal-internal morphological concord as shown
in (40) from Spanish. To take another example from Icelandic (41), the past par-
ticiple agrees in Case, number and gender with the accusative NP in the so-called
Exceptional Case-marking (ECM) construction.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 31
	(39)	a.	 There seems to be likely to be a boy in the garden.
		b.	There seem to be likely to be boys in the garden.
	(40)	Spanish: (Carstens 2000: 322)
		a.	 la	 casa	blanca
			 the.fem house.fem white-fem
			 ‘the white house’
		b.	el	 coche	blanco
			 the.masc car.masc white-masc
			 ‘the white car’
		c.	 las	 casas	blancas
			 the.fem.pl house.fem.pl white-fem.pl
			 ‘the white houses’
		d.	los	 coches	blancos
			 the.masc.pl car.masc.pl white-masc.pl
			 ‘the white cars’
	(41)	Icelandic: (Frampton & Gutmann 2000, Chomsky 2001, 2004, Hiraiwa 2005)
		Ólafur	 hefur	 lÍlega	tali	 einhvern	 hafa	ver
		Olaf(nom) 	has(3.sg) 	probably 	believed 	someone(acc.m.sg) 	 have been 	
drepinn.
		killed(acc.m.sg)
		 ‘Olaf has probably believed someone to have been killed.’
Such long-distance featural covariation cannot be readily captured by Merge, since
its effect involves (i) elements that are not sisters, and arguably (ii) features of LIs
that are not themselves susceptible to Merge (see § 3.7 for the atomicity of LIs).
So, syntax must provide a way to code such (potentially long-distance) featural
covariation among multiple LIs.
Chomsky (2000a) and much subsequent work suggest that an independent
operation Agree (42) is responsible for capturing (at least some of, optimally all of)
these effects. Agree is an operation that relates two (or more) LIs via a derivational
search operation relative to a given feature F. Some LI P with an unvalued feature F
(henceforth [uF]) acts as a probe, and it seeks in a certain search domain a match-
ing F with a lexically specified value (henceforth [vF]) belonging to a goal LI G.
Once such a probe-goal relation is identified, the value of G’s F is copied onto P’s
F.16 (43) schematically shows how the mechanism works (see also Kato et al. 2014).
16.	 According to Chomsky (2001), the technical working of Agree is somewhat more compli-
cated. In order to establish Agree(P, G) with respect to some feature F, G must contain some
activating feature f which renders G eligible as a goal for F, e.g., Case for φ-feature agreement
(Chomsky 2000a, 2001). If G contains an activating feature for Agree with respect to F, it can
successfully ensure the valuation of F on P by G at Transfer. If G doesn’t, then Agree between
32	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(42)	Agree:
		a.	 Search:
			 An LI P with an unvalued feature F [uF] probes into its sister for the
closest matching valued feature [vF] of a goal LI G.
		b.	Value:
			 The value of [vF] is copied onto [uF].
	(43)	
P
[uF]
G
[vF]
Search
P
[v F]
Value
G
[v F]
According to Chomsky (2000a et seq.), the domain of P is defined as P’s sister.
Note that (42) further holds that Agree must be established between P and its
“closest” goal. This sort of minimality requirement is naturally expected for any
search operation such as Agree, because MC requires that the search step that is
required to relate P and G be minimized. This consequence of MC is what we call
the Minimal Search (MS) principle.
	(44)	Minimal Search (MS):
		 Syntax executes only minimal search required for the computation of SEM
and PHON.
Prima facie, Agree is a costly operation that requires derivational search for a
matching feature, but it is necessary under the assumption that unvalued features
receive no interpretation at the interfaces, and that the failure to value them by
means of Agree violates the principle of Full Interpretation (FI) (45) (Chomsky
2001 et seq.).
	(45)	Full Interpretation (FI):
		 Every element of SEM and PHON contributes to interpretation.
P and G violates the Inactivity Condition on Agree (as stated in (i)), leading to cancellation (or
crash) of the derivation (Chomsky 2001, 2004, 2008).
	 (i)	 Inactivity Condition on Agree:
		
If G lacks an activating feature f for Agree with respect to some feature F, then Agree(P,
G) cannot lead to the valuation of P’s F by G’s F.
In what follows I will abstract away from this possible complication of the Agree-mechanism,
but nothing in what follows will hinge on this decision.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 33
Thus, if Merge introduces any LI with [uF] to the derivational workspace, [uF]
necessitates some application of Agree.17
Crucially, Agree involves copying just like IM: the only difference between
Agree and IM is that IM creates copies of SOs, whereas Agree creates copies of
feature-values internal to LIs (recall that LIs are by definition “atoms” for Merge;
see also § 3.7). I now argue that due to this property, Agree is required to apply in
simultaneity with Transfer, much like IM. We saw in § 2.4.1 that IM necessarily
accompanies Transfer, so long as CI and SM exploit the “costless” bifurcation of
EM and IM while still keeping to MC. The problem that necessitates simultaneity
of IM and Transfer is representational indistinguishability of IMed copies from
those which are EMed. It should be pointed out in this connection that more or
less the same problem arises in cases of Agree as well. Given FI (45), [uF]’s must be
valued via Agree before they reach the interfaces. However, once valued by Agree,
they become indistinguishable from inherently interpretable (i.e., lexically valued)
features, as far as the resultant representation is concerned. There is evidence that
the interfaces need to know the identity of feature value copies created by Agree:
thus, for example, even if one or more copies of φ-features are created by Agree
(probably applying to multiple goals; cf. Hiraiwa’s (2005) theory of Multiple Agree),
they are typically interpreted only at certain designated positions determined by CI
and SM; valued φ-features at T are left uninterpreted at CI, whereas they surface
as morphological agreement at SM. So long as MC avoids backtracking, then, it
follows that [uF]’s must be subjected to Transfer as soon as they are valued. If Value
takes place before Transfer, the identity of copied feature-values will be representa-
tionally undetectable at the interfaces; if Value takes place after Transfer, then the
derivation will crash at both interfaces due to FI. Therefore, it follows that Value
must apply in simultaneity with Transfer.
	 (46)	 Value and Transfer of [uF] must apply simultaneously in the derivation.
This consequence was first pointed out by Epstein & Seely (2002).18 Note its simi-
larity to the derivational simultaneity of IM and Transfer (38). IM and Agree are
17.	 However, see Epstein et al. (2010) and Kato et al. (2014) for different approaches.
18.	 Note that Epstein & Seely (2002) draw from (46) a somewhat different conclusion, according
to which Spell-Out and Interpret apply “inside” each application of NS-operations. However, it
should be noted as for their “rule-as-cycle” model (i) that the number of required applications of
Interpret and Spell-Out are undesirably magnified according to the number of rule-applications,
and also (ii) that Interpret and Spell-Out can no longer apply in a way that cyclically reduces the
domain of computation as Transfer defined in (30), provided that these operations are buried
inside rules applying to features and hence can affect only relevant features and their values.
Given these undesirable consequences, in what follows I will explore the phase theory derived
from Transfer as defined in (30). However, see also Narita (2009a) for exploration of a “rule-as-
cycle” model, which is referred to as “Derivational Full Interpretation.”
34	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
both operations that create copies, and hence they induce the same sort of copy-
identification problem at the interfaces. As a result, their applications are synchro-
nized with Transfer, to minimize backtracking.
2.5	 Defining phases
In § 2.3, we reached the conclusion that Interpret and Spell-Out are required to
apply simultaneously in the derivation. The compound of Interpret and Spell-Out
is called Transfer. Let us refer to SOs to which Transfer applies as phases, follow-
ing the terminology introduced by Chomsky (2004, 2007a, 2008). It remains to
be determined under what conditions an SO can constitute a phase, a problem to
which we now turn.
2.5.1	 The edge and interior of phases
Our initial formulation of Transfer is given in (30), which is repeated here for ease
of reference.
	(30)	Transfer (preliminary version):
		 Transfer subjects an SO Σ to Interpret and Spell-Out, and eliminates Σ from
the derivational workspace.
(30) holds that Transfer applying to Σ will unambiguously terminate further access
to Σ for later computation.
If Σ is the final phase that corresponds to the root clause, there will be no
further computation beyond Σ, and hence Transfer should be able to interpret/
spell-out Σ in full, terminating the derivation. However, if Σ is anything but the
final phase, Transfer cannot be required to terminate access to Σ in its entirety, since
this would exclude any continuation of the computation (see Chomsky 2004: 108
for relevant discussion). For example, Transfer of the entire phase would preclude
merger of the phase with another SO. Moreover, if Transfer applies to the entire
phase, it also terminates further access to even displaced (internally merged) ele-
ments, barring interphasal (successive-cyclic) movement. This is an undesirable
result in terms of expressive potential, in that it significantly restricts the applicabil-
ity of IM, which comes for free in bare phrase structure (modulo the simultaneity
with Transfer; see (38)). This is also undesirable in terms of MW (31), in that it
effectively poses a single-Transfer model where the phase must always be the root
clause which will not be accessed further. So, for cyclic computation to be mean-
ingful in terms of semantic expressiveness and computational efficiency, Transfer
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 35
as defined in (30) cannot be forced to apply to an SO in full. Then, each phase must
be able to have an “edge” that is accessible for further computation after Transfer.
However, given our hypothesis that Transfer maximally contributes to MW, such
an edge to be left in the derivational workspace should be kept minimal. In order
to embody the relevant edge vs. non-edge distinction, let us introduce a slight
modification to the definition of Transfer. I will specifically introduce the term
interior to refer to the domain of a phase which is subjected to Transfer.
	(47)	Transfer (second version):
		 Applied to an SO Σ, Transfer subjects the largest possible term Σ′ of Σ (the
interior of Σ) to Interpret and Spell-Out, eliminating it from the derivational
workspace.
I contend that at each application of Transfer, the interior of a phase Σ is the
largest possible term of Σ whose elimination will not prevent the continuation of
computation if there is any (see the definition of “term-of” in (20)). If Σ is the root
clause, then no continuation of computation is necessary. Thus, the interior of Σ
is Σ itself, along the lines suggested by Chomsky (2004: 108) and also investigated
in an interesting way by Goto (2010, 2011) (note that any SO is a term of itself,
according to the definition in (20)). If Σ is not the root clause, then the interior of
Σ is the next largest SO Σ′ that is properly contained in Σ. The remainder of Σ with
Σ′ subtracted is the edge of Σ that remains accessible for further computation.19 For
example, if Σ is of the form {X, YP}, where X is an LI and YP is an SO, then YP is
the largest possible sub-term of {X, YP} and thus qualifies as its interior. Transfer
eliminates YP from the derivational workspace at the completion of the phase, and
subjects YP to Interpret and Spell-Out.
	(48)	a.	
X YP
…
Transfer
		 b.	 X
By leaving X for later computation, syntax can continue recursive structure build-
ing by Merge. I will assume, along with Chomsky (2008: 143), that all the structural
information related to the phase-interior will be “forgotten,” i.e., eliminated from
the derivational workspace after Transfer. Specifically, Transfer should be able to
ship off to Interpret and Spell-Out not only YP and its terms but also all the syn-
tactic relations (constitute, term-of, etc.) established with respect to these terms.
19.	 However, see Kato et al. (2014) for a different approach.
36	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
For reasons to be explicated in the following chapters, I will specifically assume
that the information subjected to Transfer includes the “constitute”-relation that
has been established by Merge from X and YP to {X, YP} (see (19) for the defini-
tion of “constitute”). Thus, after Transfer, YP as well as the information that YP
has constituted {X, YP} with X will be lost, leaving only X for later computation.
In the course of discussion, I will refer to the LI that is part of the edge of a
phase Σ and is merged with the interior of Σ as the phase head of Σ. In (48), X is the
head of the phase {X, YP}. We will see shortly that there are also cases where the
edge of a phase contains more than a phase-head LI. For example, it is standardly
assumed that the external argument is merged to the specifier of a phase-head LI
v* (v with transitive argument structures). Thus, if the external merger applies
before the v*-phase-level Transfer, then the edge of this phase contains v* as well
as the external argument. More generally, the edge of a phase may subsume not
only a phase-head LI X but also one or more specifiers of X, say Z, as schemati-
cally shown in (49):
	(49)	
X
Z
YP
…
Z X
Transfer
b.
a.
Transfer eliminates the interior YP of X, and thereby {X, YP} is reduced to X just
like the case in (48). However, X and Z as well as the “term-of” relations that X and
Z hold to the relevant phase remain accessible for later computation.
Note that after the elimination of the interior YP from the derivational work-
space, no narrow syntactic operation (IM, Agree, etc.) should apply to the ele-
ments internal to YP. This is what is often referred to as the Phase-Impenetrability
Condition (PIC) (see Chomsky 2000a, 2004, 2008; see also Uriagereka 1999).
	(50)	Phase-Impenetrability Condition (PIC):
		 After Transfer applies to a phase Σ, the interior of Σ becomes inaccessible to
further computation of NS.
The effects of the PIC will be intensively explored in Chapter 3.
Readers might wonder if the Transfer operation (47) may count as a violation
of the NTC (22), in that it appears to involve a certain form of deletion. However,
elimination from the active workspace of narrow syntax (NS) does not entail dele-
tion or tampering with the relevant phase structure at SEM or PHON. Thus, it is
perfectly possible to suppose that Transfer leaves the phase entirely unchanged,
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 37
while only shifting the interior to the computation of Interpret and Spell-Out.
Therefore, the SO subjected to Transfer reaches SEM and PHON without any loss,
and thus cyclic Transfer does not increase the generative power of the grammar,
meeting the empirical consideration behind the NTC (22).20
2.5.2	 Phase convergence redux
When Chomsky (2000a: 107) first introduced the notion of phases, he proposed
the following characterization (51):
	 (51)	 Phases are SOs that are propositional.
According to (51), phases are defined in semantic terms: vP is propositional in that
it realizes the full-fledged argument structure (satisfying all the θ-roles), and CP is
also propositional in that it is the minimal construction that includes finite tense
and force. TP, in contrast, fails to meet the condition of propositionality according
to Chomsky (2000a), given that it lacks finiteness and force.
Chomsky proposed (51) mainly for empirical reasons. Among CP, TP, vP and
VP, he wanted to distinguish CP and vP as phases, to the exclusion of TP and VP.
The former two categories pattern together in contrast to the latter two in many
ways. For example, the following data from English suggest the clear distinction
in syntactic independence between phasal CPs/vPs and non-phasal TPs/VPs.21
	(52)	English: Topicalization
		 a.	 i.	 I believe that John criticized Mary.
			 ii.	[CP that John criticized Mary]i, I believe ti.
			 iii.	*[TP John criticized Mary]i, I believe that ti.
			 iv.	 (… and) [vP criticize Mary]i, I believe John (really) did ti.
20.	The question of the nature of cyclic reduction by Transfer is related to what Boeckx &
Grohmann (2007) call the “recombination problem:” according to Boeckx & Grohmann, cyclic
Transfer will presumably need to integrate (“recombine”) separately Transferred bits of struc-
tures in order to achieve the full-fledged compositional interpretation at SEM and PHON. To
take the case in (48) as an example, CI and SM should be able to know that the YP interior and
the phase-head X were once in a sister relation with each other, even though they got processed
and Transferred separately at different cycles of NS. However, the recombination problem arises
only if Transfer involves deletion and separation of phase chunks at SEM/PHON or at Interpret/
Spell-Out. Thus, it is possible to retain strict cyclicity of NS and, at the same time, let Interpret
and Spell-Out process multiple phases cumulatively in the integral mappings to SEM/PHON.
21.	 I will sometimes represent the relevant copy-formations by IM in a familiar traditional
notation with traces, but it should be understood throughout that we resort to these technical
notations just for expository convenience.
38	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
		 b.	 i.	 I believe John to have criticized Mary.
			 ii.	*[VP John [TP to have criticized Mary]]i, I believe ti.
			 iii.	*[TP to have criticized Mary]i, I believe John ti.
		 c.	 i.	 I prefer for John to take care of his mother.
			 ii.	[CP for John to take care of his mother]i, I prefer ti.
			 iii.	*[TP John to take care of his mother]i, I prefer for ti.
	(53)	English: Cleft ((a)–(b) are from Chomsky 2001: fn. 13, attributed to Luigi Rizzi)
		 a.	 It is [CP C PRO to go home (every evening)]i that John prefers ei.
		 b.	 *It is [TP tJohn toT go home (every evening)]i that John seems ei.
		 c.	 *It is [VP Mary toT go home (every evening)]i that John believes ei.
		 d.	 *It is [TP toT go home (every evening)]i that John believes [VP Mary ei].
	(54)	English: Pseudocleft
		 a.	 What John prefers ei is [CP C PRO to go home (every evening)]i.
		 b.	 *What Johnj seems ei is [TP tj toT go home (every evening)]i.
		 c.	 *What John believes ei is [VP Mary toT go home (every evening)]i.
		 d.	 *What John believes Mary ei is [TP toT go home (every evening)]i.
We will discuss in Chapter 3 how these patterns arise. For now, let us just make
the observation that there are data that support the differentiation of TP/VP from
CP/vP.
Although the characterization of phasehood in terms of propositionality (51)
can provide the distinction between CP/vP vs. TP/VP at first glance, it evokes a
number of empirical problems. First of all, the crucial notion “proposition(al)”
is left undefined. Given the absence of any “overt” data in the domain of CI, the
study of FL must seek understanding of the properties of CI primarily based on
empirical findings in syntax. Thus, semantic notions like “proposition(ality)” need
to be clarified in the course of investigations, but are probably not things that can
be reasonably assumed to impose any stringent constraint on such inquiries. In
short, stipulations on semantics, or semantic constraints on syntax, bear burdens
of proof which are not easy to meet.
This worry becomes more serious in the face of the emerging explanatory
theory of semantics/CI (Hinzen 2006, 2007, Uriagereka 2002, 2008; see also
Chomsky 2007a, 2008, Narita 2009b, d). The properties of human CI are of the
utmost interest to philosophy and cognitive science, and we would like to not only
advance the description of what these properties are, but also offer an explanation
of why they are as they are. These authors point out that the naturalistic theory of
syntax may be the core constituent of such an explanatory theory of semantics.
Since syntax is a unique biological endowment of homo sapiens (underlying the
unique linguistic properties such as discrete infinity and ubiquitous movement; see
Hauser et al. 2002, Fitch et al. 2005), it is natural to expect that it rather strongly
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 39
configures and determines the properties of the human-unique thoughts, not vice
versa. Specifically for “propositionality,” Hinzen, for example, argues that this is a
stipulation from “semantic externalism” in the literature of philosophy, and should
be eliminated in favor of a naturalistic (and internalist) theory of syntax (see also
Chomsky 1995a, 2000b). In this approach, the properties of propositions, if they
bear any significance at CI, are reduced to objects that are configured (or “carved
out”22) by the role of CP/vP in syntactic generation. To the extent that this is rea-
sonable, we can shift propositionality and other semantic notions into the proper-
ties of SOs (CP, vP, etc.). Importantly, syntax and SOs are natural objects “that we
can study as such,” and which we have indeed made progress in studying over the
past several decades, “even though we see them, somewhat miraculously, system-
atically condition properties of linguistic meaning that we can empirically attest”
(Hinzen 2006: 235; see also Chomsky 2007a: 15). These considerations enforce the
position that we should not rest on such notions as propositionality for the study
of syntax. See Hinzen (2006), Uriagereka (2008), Chomsky (2007a), and Narita
(2009b, d) for relevant discussion.
Moreover, there are certain empirical data suggesting that being “proposi-
tional” (51) is not a necessary condition of phasehood, either. For example, there
are a number of suggestive arguments in favor of the phasehood of nominal
phrases (see Svenonius 2004, Bošković 2005, Chomsky 2007a, among many oth-
ers) and PP (van Riemsdijk 1978, Abels 2001, Gallego 2010, among others), as
expected from the common observation that these phrases can move as indepen-
dent constituents.23 Indeed, the following chapters will present some additional
arguments in favor of the view that PPs as well as noun phrases can define their
own phases, even though they are not “propositional.” (51) is not a sufficient
condition of phasehood, either, if Chomsky (2000a, 2008) is correct in assuming
that unaccusative vPs and passive vPs are not phases.24 Prima facie, unaccusative
and passive structures seem to be as “propositional” as transitive ones, especially
given that all the active θ-roles are discharged within these vPs, too, and thus it
remains unclear under (51) why unaccusative and passive vs, as opposed to transi-
tive v (v*, to adopt Chomsky’s notation), cannot constitute their own phases. For
example, the unaccusative vP in the planei [vP arrived ti] is presumably as complete
22.	 Uriagereka (1999: 275/2002: 64), Hinzen (2006: 250), and Chomsky (2007a: 15).
23.	 See Abels (2001), Hiraiwa (2005), Svenonius (2003, 2010), and Cinque & Rizzi (2010) and
references therein for the syntax of PP.
24.	I will refrain from introducing the superfulous terminological distinction between “weak
phases” and “strong phases,” and keep the term phase to unambiguously refer to the domain
subjected to Transfer.
40	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
as possible, propositionally and θ-theoretically. While such vPs do not assume
external arguments, it is not at all clear in most cases how their propositionality
is defective by any means.
It should be noted that Chomsky (2000a: 107) briefly touches on the possibility
of an alternative characterization of phases (55):
	 (55)	 Phases are SOs that are convergent.
An SO is said to be convergent if it satisfies FI (45) (reproduced here) at the inter-
faces (cf. Chomsky 1995b: 219–220):
	(45)	Full Interpretation (FI):
		 Every element of SEM and PHON contributes to interpretation.
Specifically, we will adopt the conventional assumption that FI precludes, among
other things, unvalued features (see Chomsky 2001, 2007a and Richards 2007b;
but see also Epstein et al. 2010 and Kato et al. 2014 for different approaches to FI).
	 (56)	 Unvalued features receive no interpretation at SEM and PHON, and the failure
to value them by means of Agree violates FI.
Under (55) and (56), then, phases can be defined as SOs that contain no unvalued
features.
(55) was entertained in class lectures at MIT in 1995, but rejected in Chomsky
(2000a) mainly for empirical reasons. One such consideration comes from, again,
the problem of TP.25,26 It was not at all obvious how anything like (55) would de-
rive the correct cut between CP/vP and TP, especially when Chomsky (2000a) was
written. It was then widely assumed that the locus of Nominative Case-assignment
and φ-feature agreement is T, and that the subject-T agreement achieves all the
relevant feature checking: Nominative Case of the subject is checked by T, and
25.	 Chomsky (2000a: 107) also argues against (55) by pointing out that strictly local determina-
tion of phasehood is impossible under (55). However, given that phase cyclicity strictly restricts
the workspace of NS, the detection of convergent domains does not require significant compu-
tational load.
26.	Chomsky (2000a: 107) also discusses the following example.
	 (i)	 which articlei is there some hope [α that John will read ti]
Resting on the assumption that the wh-phrase has an uninterpretable feature [WH], he notes
that its presence on ti should make α nonconvergent and hence a non-phase, which he argues is
an undesirable result. As articulated elsewhere (2000a: 128), he assumes that the wh-phrase has
an uninterpretable feature [WH] and an interpretable feature [Q], which matches the uninter-
pretable probe [Q] of a complementizer in the final stage.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 41
the uninterpretable φ-features on T are checked by the interpretable counterpart
on the subject. Thus, TP naturally becomes fully convergent on its own, and only
further stipulations can guarantee that TP fails to satisfy (55). Therefore, classifica-
tion in terms of convergence seemed impossible.
However, current recognition of C being the locus of Nominative Case-
assignment has changed the picture. Based on the empirically well-established
observation that Nominative Case-assignment is contingent on the presence of
finite C (see Watanabe 1996 among others for earlier attempts to capture the C-T
dependency in terms of feature-checking), Chomsky (2008) proposes that C’s
probe is the “prime agent” responsible for Nominative Case-assignment, while
probing by T for φ-feature agreement is only an ancillary process contingent on
C’s probing. Thus, it is only after the introduction of C and v* that the assignment
of Nominative and Accusative Case via Agree becomes possible. CP and v*P can
receive a uniform characterization in this approach, namely that they are SOs that
become convergent upon completion of their internal computations.
Then, it is possible to provide a uniform characterization of phases in terms
of convergence, as in (57).
	 (57)	 An SO Σ is subjected to Transfer as soon as a certain term Σ′ (i.e., the interior)
of Σ becomes convergent.
This condition readily distinguishes between transitive v*P and unaccusative/pas-
sive vP: v*P is a phase since its VP-complement is convergent, for v*’s probing
can ensure the valuation of Case-feature on the object; on the other hand, unac-
cusative/passive v cannot define a phase since its complement VP contains the
subject whose Case-feature remains unchecked. Moreover, this definition can be
readily extended to PPs and nominal phrases, too. P can assign oblique Case to
its complement, thus {P, XP} satisfies (57). Further, for reasons to be discussed in
later chapters, I will adopt the hypothesis that all nominal phrases are headed by a
functional category K(ase) (Fukui 1986/1995b: 107, fn. 11, Lamontagne & Travis
1986, Bittner & Hale 1996a, b, Neeleman & Weerman 1999, Asbury 2008, Caha
2009 and references cited therein; cf. Chomsky’s 2007a n*), and that it is K but not
its complement that assumes an uninterpretable Case-feature. Then, the structure
of the form {K, XP} satisfies (57).
Note also that (57) has conceptual appeal in terms of MC: first of all, it can
be regarded as a natural concequence of MW, minimizing the size of NS’s active
workspace. Moreover, it is also the null hypothesis from the viewpoint of FI (45).
As long as we define phases as SOs whose interiors are handed over to SEM and
PHON, they are required to be convergent, since otherwise they cannot receive
legitimate interpretations at CI and SM, violating FI. Thus, (57) not only makes
42	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
the empirically advisable distinction between phases and non-phases, but is also
deducible from MC. Given these considerations, I will adopt (57) as a necessary
condition of phasehood.
To examine how the definition in (57) yields the correct demarcation of
the relevant phases, let us go through a derivation of a simple sentence, say …
(that) the boy will eat the apple. First, starting from the object KP the apple,
recursive applications of EM construct the SO in (58a). I follow the standard
assumption that interpretable (valued) φ-features (person, number and gender)
are distributed over N (such as apple, boy, etc.) and D (the, a, every, etc., prob-
ably the primary locus of person-features). I further assume that D also has a
quantificational feature [vQ] relevant to the quantificational force of the nomi-
nal, among possibly other things.27 For reasons to be explicated in the following
chapters, I will further assume that K bears (a) [uCase],28 (b) a set of unvalued
quantificational features [uQ] whose values are determined by the matching D
([±Definite], [±Quantifier], [±WH], etc.) and (c) a full set of unvalued φ-features
[uφ] (i.e., [uPerson], [uNumber] and [uGender]) to be matched with D and N’s
valued counterparts.
With the external merger of K, unvalued and hence uninterpretable features
are introduced to the derivational workspace. Although valuation of [uCase] must
be postponed, [uQ] and [uφ] can be fully valued by Agree within (58a), taking
values from N and D. Thus, K probes N and D and values its [uQ] and [uφ] via
Agree, which applies in simultaneity with Transfer (58b). Given that {the, apple} is
the largest convergent term of (58b) (K still assuming [uCase]), Transfer chooses
it as the interior of this phase and eliminates it from the derivational workspace,
leaving only K for later computation.
27.	 According to some theories of Distributed Morphology (Halle & Marantz 1993, 1994,
Marantz 1996, 1997, 2007, Embick & Marantz 2008), N(oun) is further decomposed into the
“nominalizer” category n and the “root” category √root, an LI whose categorial property is to be
specified by a neighboring categorizer like n, v(erb), and a(djective). Thus, for example, a noun
“sight” is decomposed into {n, √see}, √see being a category-neutral LI associated with intrisic
semantic features (and maybe impoverished bits of phonological features; see, e.g, Embick &
Marantz 2008). This proposal is fully compatible with the analysis proposed in this book.
28.	Although I will adopt the standard assumption that abstract Case ([uCase]) is the “formal
feature par excellence” of nominals (Chomsky 1995b: 278–279), future research may reveal that
an eliminative approach to abstract Case is on the right track (see, e.g., Narita & Fukui’s (2012)
notion of “φ-feature-equilibrium”). If this turns out to be the case, [uCase] in this book may be
more adequately understood as certain structural requirements that KPs remain to satisfy, rather
than bona fide unvalued/uninterpretable features.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 43
	(58)	a.	
K
[uCase,uQ,uφ]
D
[vQ,vφ]
N
[vφ]
		
b.
	
[uCase, v Q, v φ]
K
Transfer
D
[vQ,vφ]
N
[vφ]
		c.		 K
			 [uCase,vQ,vφ]
Basically the same analysis can be given to the subject, {K, {the, boy}}, which will
be reduced in the same way to K with [uCase, vφ] after Transfer.29
Next, the vP-phase structure in (59a) is constructed by recursive application
of EM. Throughout this work, I will adopt the so-called predicate-internal sub-
ject hypothesis (Koopman & Sportiche 1983, Fukui 1986/1995b, Sportiche 1988,
Kuroda 1988; see also Marantz 1984, Hale & Keyser 1993, 2002, Hinzen 2006),
which holds that the subject KP of a transitive clause is uniformly base-generated
as the “specifier” of v*. I will also follow the standard analysis in the literature that
v* bears a set of unvalued agreement features [uφ] that is responsible for Accusative
Case-assignment to the object nominal. Thus, after the SO in (59a) is constructed
by EM, v* probes the [vφ] of the object KP and induces Agree, applying simultane-
ously with Transfer (59b).30 Upon valuation of the Case-feature of the object KP,
the interior of the v*-phase, {V, KP}, becomes convergent, and thus Transfer can
eliminate it from the derivational workspace, leaving v* and the subject KP for
later computation (59c).
29.	Alternatively, we may assume that K’s φ-features are interpretable throughout the derivation,
and their values are matched with those of D and N via Agree or some other operations (concord,
for example). This analysis contrasts with the standard assumption that the probe of Agree must
always bear an unvalued feature (see (42)), but see Kato et al. (2014) for a generalized theory of
Search that readily allows such applications of Agree.
30.	 Chomsky (2007a, 2008) hypothesizes that object KP uniformly undergoes complement-to-spec
movement to Spec-V as a result of φ-feature-agreement and Accusative Case-marking (see also
Narita & Fukui 2012 for further exploration). If we adopt this hypothesis, then the structure of v*-
phaseshouldbereanalyzedasinvolvinga“two-peaked”structureliketheoneforA-movementofthe
subject, to be discussed shortly. I will refrain from deciding on whether the object always A-moves
to Spec-V, since the discussion in the following chapters is compatible with either possibility.
44	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(59)	a.	
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
[Acc,uφ] V KP
		b.	
V KP
[Acc ,vQ,vφ]
Transfer
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
[Acc,v φ]
		c.	
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
[Acc,vφ]
The question may be raised as to why {v*, {V, KP}} cannot be singled out as the
domain to be eliminated by Transfer, even though it contains no unvalued features
and thus it is apparently a convergent domain that is larger than {V, KP}. I assume
that elimination of v* at this point will prevent v* from assigning its “agent” θ-role
to the subject KP, which will presumably violate the CI requirement that each
argument KP should be assigned a θ-role, an aspect of FI traditionally referred to
as the “θ-Criterion” (Chomsky 1981 et seq.).
Subsequently, T and C are introduced by EM, forming (61a). I follow the tradi-
tional assumption that T bears unvalued agreement features [uφ] to be valued via
Agree by [vφ] of the subject. Further, as argued above, I also adopt the hypothesis
that C is primarily responsible for the Nominative Case-assignment to the subject,
a property that I will annotate [Nom] in (60) (see Chomsky 2007a, 2008; see also
Iatridou 1993, Watanabe 1996, Chomsky 2000a, 2001, Hiraiwa 2005, Richards
2007b for various implementations).31 The consequence of this hypothesis for the
present concern is that [uCase] of the subject KP remains unchecked until the
introduction of C. Thus, EM keeps applying until it reaches the phase-level of C,
where Agree and IM apply. Among other things, C and T probe the subject KP
31.	 Richards (2007b) and Chomsky (2007a, 2008) argue that [uφ] and [Nom] are first intro-
duced at C and then “inherited” onto T, an interesting proposal that I will largely put aside for
the purpose of this book. Of course, the operation of “feature-inheritance” is a violation of the
NTC and the IC, but Richards and Chomsky argue that this departure from the NTC and the
IC is nevertheless justifiable on principled grounds.
	 One of the oft-cited pieces of evidence for the idea that T’s [uφ] originates from C comes
from “complementizer agreement” in a variety of West-Germanic languages, where subjects of
finite embedded clauses trigger agreement on the complementizer, as illustrated in (60):
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 45
and establish Agree, valuing [uφ] of T and [uCase] of K. Moreover, the subject KP
typically moves to somewhere preceding T but following C, as the surface word
order suggests (…[⊘/that/if/whether]C [KP the boy] willT eat the apple). This is
traditionally attributed to the “Extended Projection Principle” (EPP), which holds
that the specifier of T must be filled by some phrase. Note that the T′-node ({T,
{KP, v*P}}) is already merged with C by EM, and so, assuming no tampering, the
internal merger of KP to the relevant node would result in the two partially over-
lapping SOs in (60i, ii). In terms of tree-diagram representations, they correspond
to the “multi-rooted” structure shown in (61b).32
	 (60)	 {C, {T, {KP, v*P}}}			
C
[Nom]
KP
T
[v φ]
KP
[Nom,vQ,vφ]
Transfer
v∗P
			 i.	 {C, {T, {KP, v*P}}}
							IM(KP, {T, {KP, v*P}})	 ii.	 {KP, {T, {KP, v*P}}}
	(61)	a.	
C
[Nom]
T
[uφ]
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗P
		b.	
C
[Nom]
KP
T
[v φ]
KP
[Nom,vQ,vφ]
Transfer
v∗P
		c.	
			 C
			 [Nom]
	 (i)	 South Hollandic Dutch:
		a.	 dat-ǝ	sǝ	 spel-ǝ
			that-pl	 3-pl	play-pl
			‘…that they play.’
		b.	 dat-(*ǝ)	sǝ	 speel-t
			that-(pl)	 3sg.fem	play-3sg
			‘…that she plays.’
See Hoekstra & Marácz (1989), Zwart (1993), Watanabe (2000), Carstens (2003) among others
for discussions of this phenomenon.
32.	 In contrast, Chomsky (2007a, 2008) contends that the EPP-driven movement of the subject
to a place above T but below C takes the form of “tucking-in” (Richards 1997, 1999, 2001),
replacing the T′-node {T, {KP, v*P}} with {KP, {T, {KP, v*P}}} and thereby mapping {C, {T, {KP,
v*P}}} to {C, {KP, {T, {KP, v*P}}}}. It is obvious that such tampering violates the NTC.
46	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Now, Transfer should apply simultaneously with IM, subjecting a certain do-
main of the structure to Interpret and Spell-Out. What part of the multi-rooted
structure (61b) = (60i) + (60ii) gets Transferred? Since two SOs, (60i) and (60ii),
are generated at this phase level, it is natural to expect that both of them subject
their largest possible convergent terms to Transfer: there must be an edge mini-
mally left for further computation, thus C must be part of the edge of this phase.
All other constituents of (60i) and (60ii) are convergent: [uCase] of KP receives
Nominative Case from C, [uφ] of T receives values from the subject KP via Agree,
so there is no unvalued feature remaining in them. I contend, therefore, that every-
thing but C in (60i), as well as the entire root SO in (60ii), constitutes the interior
and gets Transferred, as shown in (61b) (see also Epstein et al. 2012 for relevant
discussion).33 Therefore, what remains after Transfer is a simplex LI C, if there is a
next phase. If not, then the phase in (61) should be the undominated matrix clause,
and Transfer just eliminates all the constituents of (61b), concluding the derivation.
The discussion surrounding (60)/(61) shows that sometimes more than one
root SO may be generated as a result of IM applying at a single phase-level. In order
to ensure that these multiple SOs undergo Transfer simultaneously, let us further
refine the definition of Transfer as (62).34
	(62)	Transfer (third version):
		 Applied to a set of root SOs {Σ1, …, Σn}, Transfer subjects the largest possible
convergent term Σ′i of each Σi to Interpret and Spell-Out, eliminating the sum
of Σ′i (called the interior of a phase) from the workspace of NS.
The derivation in (58)–(61) shows that the formulation of Transfer in (62) cor-
rectly singles out CP, v*P and KP as phases, while excluding TP and VP. It thus
yields the natural class of phases, whose syntactic independence and coherency are
supported by, e.g., the data in (52)–(54). In the following chapters, we will observe
further evidence in favor of this classification of phases vs. non-phases.
2.5.3	 Rationale for unvalued/uninterpretable features
Importantly, the derivation (58)–(61) demonstrates a significant role played by
various instances of unvalued features. As we saw above, FI demands that the
phase-interiors be convergent, free from unvalued features (57). Then, the converse
prediction of (57) is that as long as the interior of an SO contains [uF], it cannot
33.	 I will return to the problem of how such “multi-rooted” structures are appropriately linear-
ized at PHON in § 4.4. See also Chapter 5 for semantic consequences at SEM.
34.	 Incidentally, this modification is also necessary for the “sideward remerge” analysis of the
so-called “head-movement” operation, to be presented in § 2.8.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 47
define a phase. Thus, if an LI X with an unvalued feature [uF] is introduced to the
active workspace, prototypically [uφ] and [uCase], SOs that contain X cannot con-
stitute phases for Transfer, unless Agree assigns a value to [uF]. Then, the distribu-
tion of unvalued features strongly contributes to the determination of phase cycles.
It is worth recalling at this point that when the notion of uninterpretable fea-
tures was introduced into the theory of syntax, Chomsky (2000a: § 3.5) enumerated
(a) uninterpretable features of LIs and (b) the ubiquitous dislocation phenomenon
as “two striking examples” of imperfections in human language, i.e., unexplained
departures from the SMT. He then speculated that FL adopts (a) as the mechani-
cal implementation of (b), with the hope of reducing two imperfections to one.
In this approach, he resorted to the familiar stipulation that Move is a costly, “last
resort” operation applying only when necessary to ensure checking of uninterpre-
table features. However, it has been recognized since Chomsky (2004) that bare
phrase structure (Chomsky 1994 et seq.) provides arguably the simplest possible
conception of Move: the recursively applicable operation, Merge, is so free and
unconstrained that it may apply to any two SOs α and β, irrespective of whether
they are independent (EM) or one is part of the other (IM). Therefore, IM should
be “as free as EM,” (Chomsky 2008: 140) and there should not be any stipulation
that differentiates the computational cost of EM and IM (see Fukui & Speas 1986,
Fukui 1988 and Saito & Fukui 1998 for the costless nature of free/optional IM; see
also Kuno 2003). Stipulations of viral “EPP” properties are thus eliminated in favor
of unconstrained Merge. This points to the conclusion that displacement is not an
“imperfection” of human language, but rather its absence would be an imperfec-
tion (Chomsky 2004: 110). From this perspective, we cannot blame the existence
of uninterpretable features on dislocation anymore. Correspondingly, Chomsky’s
(2000a) earlier reasoning that uninterpretable features are justified as triggers of
displacement should be eliminated. We are thus left again with uninterpretable
features as stubborn imperfections.
To the extent that uninterpretable features exist, as seems thoroughly demon-
strated by various morphological agreement phenomena in natural language, then
the minimalist question is why FL has such apparent “imperfections.” We have
to either (i) give up on the minimalist goal of biological adequacy in face of such
imperfections, or (ii) aim to provide an explicit hypothesis for how they enter into
UG as a part of an “optimal way” to satisfy design specifications of FL.
In this regard, the above discussion points to another important function of
unvalued features: their distribution locally demarcates phase cycles. Under our
hypothesis that phasehood is defined in terms of convergence (57), the distribution
of unvalued features, such as [uφ] and [uCase], constitutes a primary means for
defining phases. It was shown that (57) indeed provides the correct demarcation
of CP-, vP- and KP-phases.
48	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
To the extent that cyclicity is a desirable feature of such computational systems
as FL, then, we may provide an alternative rationale for the existence of distributed
unvalued/uninterpretable features in the architecture of FL, namely as a device to
efficiently determine phase cycles.
	 (63)	 UG employs unvalued features as a device to efficiently demarcate phase cycles.
We can even regard unvalued features, though uninterpretable per se, as indi-
rectly contributing to MC. Then, the overarching principle of MC may not only
demarcate phases, but it may also provide an important rationale for the prima
facie imperfection of FL, namely unvalued features, a desirable conclusion in the
pursuit of biological adequacy and also the SMT.35
2.6	 Eliminating the Merge-over-Move stipulation
along with numeration and lexical (sub-)arrays
In the previous discussion, we reached the conclusion that IM and Agree must
apply simultaneously with Transfer (see (38) and (46)). In contrast, EM is not
constrained that way, due to the lack of the copy-identification requirement that
is associated with IM and Agree. EM is therefore truly unconstrained, applying
freely without being confined to cyclicity by Transfer. However, it should be noted
here that we are not stipulating that IM is inherently more costly than EM. No such
stipulation is necessary. Derivational simultaneity of IM and Transfer (38) is rather
derived from the interplay of the IC, the NTC, FI and the interpretive demand of
copy-identification, and hence there is no principled reason to add any further
stipulation that IM is differentiated in its computational cost from EM.
In the early exploration of bare phrase structure, Chomsky (1994, 1995b) put
forward the hypothesis that has come to be referred to as the Merge-over-Move
principle (MOM). MOM holds that Move (= IM) is computationally more costly
than EM, so syntax always applies EM whenever there arises a choice between EM
and IM. It is further speculated that this cost-difference arises because Move is in
fact a complex operation that comprises Merge, feature-checking, and pied-piping
(Chomsky 1995b, 2000a; see also Chomsky 2001) or because Move is necessarily
accompanied by subsequent phonological operations that eliminate all but one
copy at the phonological component (Kitahara 1997). However, as noted above, it
came to be recognized since Chomsky (2004) that once syntax is given Merge as
set-formation (34), both EM and IM come for free. Barring further stipulations,
both modes of Merge apply freely, hence IM should be as free as EM (Chomsky
35.	 I thank Noam Chomsky (p.c.) for bringing this point to my attention.
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 49
2008: 140). In this line of reasoning, then, we are compelled to conclude that there
should be no stipulation to the effect of MOM. In this section, I will argue that
MOM can be naturally eliminated in favor of cyclic derivation by phase.
Chomsky (1994, 1995b) argues that MOM explains the contrast in examples
like (64).
	(64)	a.	 Therei seems [ti to be a man in the room].
		 b.	*There seems [a mani to be ti in the room].
According to the analysis proposed by Chomsky (1995b), syntax starts its deriva-
tion by constructing a Numeration, a set of pairs (LI, i), where LI is a lexical item
and i is an index that corresponds to the number of times that LI is selected from
the Lexicon in a given derivation. The index for a given LI is reduced by 1 when
the relevant LI is chosen and introduced to the active workspace (this operation
is called Select in Chomsky 1995b), and all indices must be reduced to zero at the
end of derivation. For example, the derivation of the sentence in (64a) starts from
the Numeration N in (65). At the point where bottom-up applications of EM and
Select construct the infinitival T′ in (66), N reduces to (67).
	 (65)	 N = {(C, 1), (Tpresent, 1), (there, 1), (v, 1), (seemV, 1), (toT , 1), (be, 1), (a, 1),
		(man, 1), (in, 1), (the, 1), (room, 1)}
	(66)	[toT [be [a man] in the room]]
	 (67)	 N = {(C, 1), (Tpresent, 1), (there, 1), (v, 1), (seemV , 1), (toT, 0), (be, 0), (a, 0),
		(man, 0), (in, 0), (the, 0), (room, 0)}
In the model of Chomsky (1995b), it was stipulated that the raising infinitival T
to has a so-called “EPP-feature” (or [–D]) that requires its specifier position to be
filled by some determiner phrase (DP). At the point in (66), this EPP-requirement
can be met either (i) by externally merging the expletive there drawn from N in
(67), or (ii) by moving the associate DP [a man]. (i) and (ii) would yield the deriva-
tions in (64a) and (64b), respectively. The severe ungrammaticality of (64b) sug-
gests that the movement option (ii) is unavailable at (66), which Chomsky argues is
naturally predicted by MOM: the presence of (there, 1) in (67) indicates that both
options of EM and Move are available, and syntax always chooses EM in favor of
MOM, precluding the derivation in (64b). In this manner, MOM together with the
concept of Numeration was argued to receive empirical support from data like (64).
However, it is pointed out in Chomsky (2000a: 106) that MOM in tandem
with Numeration makes a wrong prediction with regard to simple examples like
the following (his (7b)).
	 (68)	 There is a possibility [that proofsi will be discovered ti].
50	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
At the point where the embedded clause is constructed, movement of proofs to
Spec-T is possible, even though the Numeration at that stage would still contain an
expletive there (or (there, 1)), and thus MOM would preclude Move from applying
within the embedded clause, contrary to the full acceptability of (68).
One might try to defend MOM by saying that it is just a relative preference but
not an absolute requirement, thus its effect can be overridden if only the choice
of IM yields a convergent derivation. However, this line of approach turns out
to be problematic in face of examples like (69)–(70) of the sort discovered by
Alec Marantz and Juan Romero (see, e.g., Uriagereka 2008: Chapter 1 for relevant
discussion).
	 (69)	 a.	 (…and) the fact is [that there is a monk in the cloister]
		 b.	 (…and) there is the fact [that a monki is ti in the cloister]
	 (70)	 a.	 A ball-room was [where there was a monk arrested]
		 b.	 There was a ball-room [where a monki was ti arrested]
It is obvious from these examples that one and the same Numeration can in fact
yield more than one convergent derivation that seem to differ only in the choice of
expletive-insertion and subject raising at a particular point of derivation. Therefore,
these examples show that MOM cannot be sustained with the original concept of
Numeration, which in turn undermines the original MOM-based account of (64).
Still in defense of MOM, Chomsky (2000a) argues that this problem can be
technically circumvented if we speculate that the initial lexical array (Numeration)
is further partitioned into smaller chunks corresponding to derivational phases.
These partitions are called lexical subarrays. For example, LAi and LAj below repre-
sent the lexical subarrays corresponding to the embedded CPs in (69a) and (69b),
respectively. (Mainly for expository purposes, here I keep to the assumption that
the initial lexical array takes the form of a Numeration in the sense of Chomsky
1995b, and hence that lexical subarrays are subsets of the Numeration. However,
note that Chomsky 2000a amended this hypothesis. See also Chomsky 2000a:
note 41.)
	(71)	LAi = {(that, 1), (T, 1), (be, 1), (a, 1), (monk, 1), (in, 1), (the, 1), (cloister, 1),
(there, 1)}
	(72)	LAj = {(that, 1), (T, 1), (be, 1), (a, 1), (monk, 1), (in, 1), (the, 1), (cloister, 1)}
LAi and LAj differ in that only the former contains a token of there. Now, each of
these lexical subarrays yields one and only one convergent CP-phase as shown
with square brackets in (69a) and (69b). Note that there arises no choice between
expletive-insertion and subject-raising in these CP-phases: there-insertion simply
applies if and only if the lexical subarray contains a token of there. Here, pre-NS
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 51
selections of lexical subarrays render MOM by and large irrelevant for the deriva-
tions of these CP-phases. On the other hand, Chomsky (2000a) argues, MOM is
still applicable within each phase of a lexical subarray, and the MOM-based ac-
count of (64) can be sustained in its original form: given that TP cannot be a phase
on its own, the only phase involved in the derivation of (64a) is the matrix CP itself,
and hence the initial lexical array with a token of there equals the lexical subarray
associated with the CP. Within this phase cycle, then, MOM derives the priority
of EM of there over movement of a man at the point of (66), hence the derivation
that would yield (64b) is precluded.
In this line of reasoning, Chomsky (2000a) still defends the idea that the con-
trast between (64a) and (64b) supports MOM. However, this conclusion should be
recognized as undesirable at the present level of understanding, given the natural
hypothesis that EM and IM are just instances of the same operation and hence
there should not be any difference in computational cost between them.
Now, I would like to maintain that we can eliminate recourse to MOM in the
account of (64), if we adopt the conclusion that IM but not EM is constrained to
apply simultaneously with Transfer. This hypothesis gives rise to ordering of op-
erations in NS, in which instances of EM in a given phase apply first, and then all
instances of IM (and Agree) apply in tandem with Transfer at that phase.
	 (73)	 Instances of EM apply prior to instances of IM and Agree in a given phase.
Applied to the matrix C-phase in (64), then, (73) is sufficient to derive the priority
of external merger of there over internal merger of a man: there must be introduced
by EM prior to IM of a man, thus there arises no choice between EM and IM at
the point of (66), simply as a consequence of (73). MOM need not be stipulated
in this account, and the ungrammaticality of (64b) is derived from the simple fact
that IM of a man is not possible at (66), given that infinitival TP is not a phase. EM
keeps applying until the matrix C is introduced, and at the phase level determined
by it, IM dislocates the closest goal there to the EPP-position.
	(74)	a.	 [CP C		 T	
v	 seem	 there	 Tdef	 be	 [a man]	 [in the room] ]
		
b.	[CP C therei 	 T	 v	 seem	 ti	Tdef 	 be	 [a man]	 [in the room] ]
		
Moreover, it should be noted that this approach can eliminate recourse to lexical
subarrays, too. As discussed above, the concept of lexical subarray is introduced
by Chomsky (2000a) mainly as technology to prolong the life of MOM, which ap-
parently fails to account for examples like those in (68)–(70). However, once we
free ourselves from the stipulation of MOM in favor of (73), these examples also
cease to be problematic. The alternation between CP with an expletive subject and
one without it (say there was a man in the room vs. a man was in the room) arises
52	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
simply from the unboundedness of EM: a derivation with external merger of an
expletive results in the former sentence while one without it results in the latter.
The concept of lexical subarray loses its relevance in this account. More generally,
pre-NS assembly of LIs of any form becomes an extraneous, unmotivated stipula-
tion in phase theory. Then, the natural conclusion is that such a technology should
also be dispensed with in favor of phase theory.
2.7	 Copy-identification as part of Transfer
At this point, it is instructive to attend closer to the original concept of Numeration
provided by Chomsky (1995b). As noted, it was formulated as a set of pairs (LI, i)
that serves not only as input to the narrow syntactic computation, (referred to as
Human Language Computation (CHL) therein), but also as a device to keep track
of the number of separate occurrences of LIs in a given derivation. Specifically,
Chomsky (1995b) put forward the hypothesis that occurrences of one and the same
LI introduced to syntax by distinct applications of Select are marked as distinct
from each other. Thus, he notes:
Suppose the lexical item LI in the numeration N has index i. If a derivation is to
be generated, Select must access LI i times, introducing it into the derivation.
But the syntactic objects formed by distinct applications of Select to LI must be
distinguished; two occurrences of the pronoun he, for example, may have entirely
different properties at LF. l and l′ are thus marked as distinct for CHL, if they are
formed by distinct applications of Select accessing the same lexical item of N.
Note that this is a departure from the inclusiveness condition, but one that seems
indispensable: it is rooted in the nature of language, and perhaps reducible to bare
output conditions.  (ibid, p. 227, emphasis mine)
Importantly, it is explicitly acknowledged here that the mechanism of distinctness
marking on occurrences of LIs, applying as part of Numeration and/or Select, is
a departure from the IC. The idea that some mechanism of index-assignment is
responsible for distinctness marking has earlier roots, e.g., the treatment of core-
ference and binding by means of coindexation as proposed by Chomsky (1980a,
1981, 1986b), and Fiengo & May (1994) among others, for which the same problem
of inclusiveness arises.
More generally, copy-identification, subsuming formation of chains of move-
ment, is one of the fundamental descriptive problems that in one way or another
led linguists to add the stipulations of referential indices and distinctness mark-
ing. Given that the indices and distinctness markings undergo manipulation in
the course of derivation, they cannot be part of the initial input provided by the
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 53
Lexicon and thus violate the IC, irrespective of whether they are assigned to syntac-
tic constituents as part of Numeration-construction or by some other mechanism.
There is no doubt that these are devices of much descriptive convenience,36 but the
problem is that they are nevertheless departures from the IC. Further, they may
also violate the NTC, if they inspect and modify the indices of constituents (or of
Numerations) already formed.
However, it is not clear whether such extraneous mechanisms of distinctness
marking are really “indispensable” in the theory of phases: see, e.g., Chomsky
(2007a: 10). This is especially true given that one of the core empirical motivations
for the hypothesis of Numeration-formation, namely the formulation of MOM,
is undermined in favor of phase theory. Recall further the concluion we reached
in § 2.4.1 that the derivational simultaneity of IM and Transfer paves the way for
strict adherence to the IC. As noted above, the distinction between IM and EM
is derivational in nature: applying to two SOs α and β, IM searches inside β and
selects α from terms of β, while α and β are two independent SOs in the case of
EM, but these two modes of Merge possibly result in SOs that are representation-
ally indistinguishable. We concluded that the efficient differentiation between EM
and IM by Interpret and Spell-Out thus requires minimization of time-difference
between applications of IM and Transfer, resulting in derivational simultaneity
(see (38)). In this model of derivation by phase, a simple procedure is available for
detecting copies, adapted from Chomsky (2007a: 10).37
	(75)	Copy-identification:
		 All and only repetitions (feature-values or SOs) introduced simultaneously
with Transfer are copies of elements within the phase.
This algorithm naturally identifies copies formed by IM without any extraneous
mechanisms of index-assignment, and hence it is still in conformity with inclusive-
ness, satisfying the SMT. I contend that this simple algorithm of copy-identification
is also available for determining the identity of feature-values copied by Agree,
which again applies simultaneously with Transfer (46).
36.	 Thus, Chomsky notes elsewhere that “chain properties can be reduced in significant part to
identity if lexical arrays are enriched to numerations.” (2000a, note 41) Only “in significant part,”
because distinctness marking by Numeration can only take care of identity of LIs, leaving the
problem of copy-identification for phrasal constituents unsettled. However, it may be of some
interest to note that the problem of copy-identification for phrasal constituents can be totally
dispensed with if syntax permits no movement (internal merger) of phrasal constituents, as I
will argue in Chapter 3.
37.	 Therefore, there is no need to stipulate a distinct rule of copy-formation, contrary to
Hornstein’s (2009) theory of syntax.
54	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
It is simply a matter of fact in the framework of bare phrase structure that
copy-formation by IM and Agree is exploited by CI and SM. At PHON, copy-
formation by IM yields the ubiquitous displacement phenomenon, and copies of
feature-values formed by Agree represent morphological covariation phenomena
in various languages. At SEM, IM yields discourse-related properties such as scope
and operator-variable interpretations, constituting an integral part of the duality
of semantics. Therefore, FL should be designed in such a way that the derivational
information about copy-formation is appropriately delivered to CI and SM. This
can be regarded as “rooted in the nature of language, and perhaps reducible to bare
output conditions” (the quote from Chomsky 1995b: p. 227 above) – it is just that
the inclusiveness-violating mechanism of indexation and distinctness marking
is not warranted by such considerations. In conjunction with this, recall that the
copy-forming operations, IM and Agree, apply simultaneously in the derivation
with Transfer. It was argued in § 2.4 that the derivational simultaneity arises as
a consequence of MC, minimizing the time-difference between copy-formation
and Transfer.
Pushing this line of reasoning even further, I contend that copy-identification
applies as an integral part of Transfer. The derivational simultaneity of IM, Agree
and Transfer simply follows from this hypothesis. Along these lines of reasoning,
the formulation of Transfer is further refined as in (76):
	(76)	Transfer (final version):
		 Applied to a set of root SOs {Σ1, …, Σn}, Transfer
		 a.	 identifies copies within Σ1, …, Σn via (75),
		 b.	
subjects the largest possible convergent term Σ′i of each Σi to Interpret
and Spell-Out, and
		 c.	 eliminates the sum of Σ′i (called the interior of a phase) from the workspace
of NS.
The following chapters will investigate further properties of Transfer. We will see
that this hypothesis regarding Transfer yields a number of predictions that are
desirable both in terms of breadth of empirical coverage and theory-internal sim-
plicity, approaching the desideratum of the SMT.
2.8	 Head-movement in bare phrase structure
Before concluding this chapter, a brief remark on the nature of head-movement
(X0-movement) is in order. According to the traditional description, head-move-
ment is a syntactic operation that adjoins an LI X0 to another LI Y0 that c-
commands it. Among others, T-to-C raising and V-to-v incorporation constitute
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 55
canonical instances of head-movement, and they clearly involve prototypical
non-phase-head LIs, T and V.
	(77)	willTi-C	John	
ti	 buyVj-v	tj	 a book this morning?
		 	
As exemplified by (77), head-movement dislocates an LI (an “X0”-category in X-bar-
theoretic terms) to the left, specifically into a position occupied by another LI.
Chomsky (1995b) provides a de facto standard analysis of head-movement,
which holds that head-movement of X0 effectively replaces Y0 in an SO with the
so-called “Y0max” category that consists of X0 and a segment of Y0, as shown in
(78), but still behaves as Y0 as a whole.
	(78)	a. YP
Y0 XP
X0
b. YP
Y0max
X0 Y0
XP
tX
0
The status of syntactic head-movement in bare phrase structure is, however,
somewhat controversial, especially because it apparently violates the NTC.
Under the NTC, X0-to-Y0 head-merger, which should be just an instance of
Merge(X0, Y0), has no ability to replace Y0 in (78a) with “Y0max” = {X0, Y0}.
Consequently, the proper characterization of head-movement is one of the cur-
rently contested topics in the literature (see, e.g., Fukui & Takano 1998, Chomsky
2001, Boeckx & Stjepanović 2001, Matushansky 2006, Roberts 2010, and refer-
ences cited therein).
The worrisome departure from the NTC leads some researchers to even enter-
tain the hypothesis that head-movement is not an operation within NS, but rather
a purely post-NS “PF”-phenomenon (the PF theory of head-movement; Chomsky
2000a, 2001, Boeckx & Stjepanović 2001). However, relegating head-movement
to PF amounts to introducing an ad hoc level of representation in FL (“syntactic
PF”), as correctly pointed out by Cecchetto & Donati (2010a). See also Uriagereka
(2002: Chapter 1) for much relevant discussion on the problematic notion of levels
of representation.
Pushing our Merge-only theory of structure-generation, here I put forward an
alternative approach to head-movement. The proposed analysis circumvents the
problem of NTC-violation in a way somewhat akin to the idea explored by Bobaljik
& Brown (1997). The proposal keeps to the traditional intuition that X0-to-Y0
head-merger really exists as an instance of Move/Merge, i.e., it is just Merge(X0,
56	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Y0). If we further keep to the definition of Merge as a simple set-formation, then,
such an application of Merge just generates another set {X0, Y0}, without tampering
with the SO in (78a)/(79a). This operation rather results in two SOs, {X0, Y0} and
{Y0, {X0, ZP}} as shown in (79b).
	(79)	a.	 {Y0, {X0, ZP}}	 	 b.	i.	 {Y0, {X0, ZP}}
									ii.	
{X0, Y0}
(79b) is composed of two SOs, and they cannot be represented as a single-root tree-
diagram. We may make use of informal multi-rooted tree-representations such as
(79b′), or a perhaps more visually comprehensible trace-based notation in (79b″).
	(79)	a′.
Y0
X0 ZP
b′.
Y0
X0 ZP
					
b′′.
Y0
X0
tX
0 ZP
The claim behind (79) is that X0-to-Y0-movement can be reanalyzed as a variety
of “sideward remerge,” yielding another SO that takes X0 and Y0 as its immediate
terms (cf. Bobaljik & Brown 1997).38 Crucially, it does not tamper with the internal
composition of X0 and Y0, thus it satisfies the NTC.
Canonical examples of head-movement should be reanalyzed along these lines.
(80) and (81) represent T-to-C raising and V-to-v incorporation.
	 (80)	 T-to-C-raising, forming {T, C}:
		 a.	 {C, {T, vP}}	 b.	 i.	 {C, {T, vP}}
							ii.	
{T, C}
		a′.	
C
T vP
Merge(T, C)	 	 b′.	
C
T vP
38.	 This analysis is also congruent with Narita & Fukui’s (2012) hypothesis that head-movement
is generally driven by the need for symmetric structures of the form {X0 , Y0} (what they call
“feature-equilibrium”).
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 57
	(81)	V-to-v-raising, forming {V, v}:
		a.	 {v, {V, …}}	 b.	 i.	 {v, {V, …}}
							ii.	
{V, v}
		a′.	
v
V
Merge(V, v)		b′.	
v
V
If the internal syntax of nouns and adjectives involves layered categorizer-root
structures such as n-N and a-A, as proposed by Distributed Morphology (Halle
& Marantz 1993, 1994, Marantz 1996, 1997, 2007 among others), the reanalysis
akin to (81) should also apply to N0-to-n0 and A0-to-a0 root-incorporation. See
also Svenonius (2003, 2010) for the view that adpositions should also be further
decomposed into p-P (but see Baker 2003 for arguments that P constitutes a sepa-
rate class of functional category).
Notice that head-movement under our conception is clearly a copy-forming
operation. Thus, in line with the hypothesis established in § 2.7, it should apply
simultaneously with Transfer at the phase level, just like canonical instances of IM.
(This is where my analysis departs from Bobaljik & Brown’s (1997) earlier proposal,
according to which X0 adjoins to Y0 prior to the cyclic EM-based formation of
{X0max, YP}.) Provided that the SOs created by head-movement ({X0, Y0}) are root
SOs and are convergent (free from unchecked [uF]), Transfer (62) immediately
subjects them as a whole to Interpret/Spell-Out upon creation, leaving no edge
for {X0, Y0}. For example, if V-to-v* head-movement (81) applies at the v*-phase-
level (82), Transfer subjects the complement {V, KP} of v* and {V, v*} as a whole
to Interpret/Spell-Out.
	 (82)	 a.	 {KP, {v*, {V, KP}}}
		a′.	
[Acc,uφ] V
Phase-level operations
v∗
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
	
[Acc,uφ] V
Phase-level operations
v∗
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
		 b.	 i.	 {KP, {v*, {V, KP}}}
			 ii.	{V, v*}
		b′.	
v∗
[Acc, φ
v ] V KP
[Acc ,vQ,vφ]
Transfer
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
58	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
		c.	 {KP, v*}
		c′.	
v∗
[Acc,vφ]
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
T-to-C-raising applying at the C-phase-level can be analyzed in a similar fashion.
In this case, three root SOs are generated and subjected to Transfer, as a result of
A-movement and head-movement.
	 (83)	 a.	 {C, {T, {KP, v*P}}}
		a′.	
Phase-level operations
C
[Nom]
T
[uφ]
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗P
		b.	i.	 {C, {T, {KP, v*P}}}
			 ii.	{KP, {T, {KP, v*P}}}
			 iii.	{T, C}
		b′.	
C
[Nom]
KP
T
[v φ]
KP
[Nom,vQ,vφ]
v∗P
Transfer
		c.	 C
		c′.	C
			 [Nom]
So far, our discussion was restricted to cases that relate two simplex LIs, X0 and
Y0. However, there are also cases where head-movement incorporates two or more
heads into another head. For example, it was assumed in the earlier “X0max”-based
analysis that after X0-to-Y0 movement in (78), Y0max may further head-move to a
higher LI, say Z0, forming Z0max of the form in (84b):
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 59
	(84)	a.	 ZP
Z0 YP
Y0max
X0 Y0
XP
tX
0
		
b.	 ZP
Z0max
Y0max
X0 Y0
Z0
YP
tY
0 XP
tX
0
This type of X0max-movement is sometimes referred to as “roll-up head-movement”
(see Baker 1988, 1996, Kayne 1994, Brody 2000 among others). A prototypical
example is V-to-v-to-T raising as exemplified by languages like French (85). (86)
sketches the relevant derivation, which first involves V0-to-v 0 incorporation, form-
ing v 0max (86b), and then v 0max-to-T0 movement, forming T0max = [v 0max T0] (86c):
	(85)	French:
		 a.	 Jean embrasse (souvent) Marie.
			 Jean kisses	 (often)	Marie
			 ‘Jean (often) kisses Marie.’
		 b.	 Jean (n’) aime pas Marie.
			 Jean	 like	 not Marie
			 ‘Jean does not like Marie.’
	 (86)	 a.	 … [T0] … [vP … [v 0] …[VP … [V0] … ] … ]
		b.	V0-to-v 0 incorporation, forming v 0max:
			 … [T0] … [vP … [v 0max	 [V0]-v 0] … [VP … tV0 … ] … ]
			
		c.	 v 0max-to-T0 raising, forming T0max:
			 … [T0max	 [v 0max [V0]-v 0]-T0] … [vP … tv 0max …[VP … tV0 … ] … ]
			
The earlier analysis was advantageous in that it naturally provided a suitable
“X0max” label for roll-up head-movement. However, given that the NTC precludes
the formation of X0max, such an analysis becomes unavailable in the framework of
projection-free syntax.
60	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
In (85), the overt verb appears to the left of vP-boundary (marked by adverbs
and the negative particle pas). Then, under the assumption that the verb is an
amalgam of v and V, verb-to-T movement apparently “pied-pipes” a complex SO
{v, V}. How can we achieve this result without making recourse to X0max?
I argue that the movement of “v 0max” = {v, V} is illusory, and that exactly the
same “sideward LI-LI remerge” analysis can be readily extended to v-to-T move-
ment as well. v-to-T raising is just Merge(v, T), and it yields another SO, {v, T} in
addition to {V, v}, as shown in (87b/b′). Again, readers should bear in mind that
the relevant remerge applies at a phase level, but the constituent structure above T
is omitted in (87) for the sake of exposition.
	 (87)	 a.	 i.	 {T, {…{v, {V, …}}…}}
			 ii.	{V, v}	
						 Merge(v, T)
		a′.	
T
v
V
		 b.	 i.	 {T, {…{v, {V, …}}…}}
			 ii.	{V, v}
			 iii.	{v, T}
		b′.	
T
v
V
Each of the three SOs in (87b/b′) satisfies the NTC, as desired. In Chapter 4, we
will discuss the topic of linear order, where I will propose a theory of linearization
that can deal with such structures.39
39.	 Readers may wonder if we may provide an alternative reanalysis of roll-up V-to-v-to-T
head-movement in terms of the merger of {V, v} with T, yielding {{V, v}, T}.
	 (i)	 a.	 (x)	 {T, {…{v, {V, …}}…}}	 b.	 (x)	 {T, {…{v, {V, …}}…}}
			(y)	 {V, v}					(y)	
{{V, v}, T}
		
		a′.	
T
v
V
Merge({V, v}, T)	 b′.	
T
v
V
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 61
For lack of counterevidence to this reductive approach, the following discus-
sion will rest on the assumption that instances of (sometimes “roll-up”) head-
movement may be generally reducible to (successive cyclic) LI-LI sideward
remerge, applying simultaneously with Transfer. Whether or not future research
may lend support to some different analysis, the point is that we can construct a
theory of head-movement that makes no recourse to X0max, keeping to the bound-
ary conditions of the IC and the NTC.
2.9	 Concluding remarks
This chapter approached the problems imposed by the IC (21) and the NTC (22)
from the perspective of the modern minimalist framework. It was argued that the
strict adherence to the IC and the NTC has a number of nontrivial consequences
for the technical workings of syntactic derivation. Specifically, I argued that the
theories of bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase pave the way for
adhering to these derivatives of MC. The phase-theoretic conclusions we reached
in this chapter are summarized below:
	 (88)	 a.	 AnSOΣissubjectedtoTransferassoonasacertaintermΣ′(i.e.,theinterior)
of Σ becomes convergent.
		b.	Derivational Simultaneity:
			 Interpret, Spell-Out, and copy-formation operations (IM, head-movement
and Agree) apply simultaneously in the form of Transfer.
Although no violation of the NTC occurs in (i), this derivation is nevertheless excluded, as I
will argue.
	 There are two derivations to consider, one involving v* that defines its own phase and the
other involving unaccusative/passive v that doesn’t. If the former, Merge in (i) cannot apply
because one of its terms, {V, v*}, necessarily gets eliminated from the workspace by the v*-
phase-level Transfer. Note that in order for {V, v*} to remain within the workspace, there must
be some unchecked [uF] within it that precludes Transfer. V cannot be the locus of such [uF],
because if it has one, the interior VP of v* is not convergent and thus v*P cannot define a phase
in the first place, rendering the prior application of V-to-v* head-movement (i.e., the formation
of {V, v*}) impossible. The phase-head v* may have a remaining [uF] for further computation,
but then, the v*-level-Transfer necessarily eliminates the largest convergent term V of {V, v*}
from the workspace, leaving only v* for further computation. Therefore, {V, v*} as a whole can
never survive the v*-phase-level-Transfer, excluding the derivation in (i).
	 If, in contrast, the structure is unaccusative/passive, involving no v*-phase, then there is only
a C-phase for (i), and V-to-v and v-to-T necessarily apply simultaneously at the single phase-
level. Exactly due to the simultaneity, no rule ordering between them can be assumed, and thus
the latter cannot take the output of the former ({V, v}) as its input. In this manner, the derivation
in (i) is excluded as a necessary result of MC.
62	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
		 c.	 Instances of bottom-up EM apply prior to instances of copy-forming
operations (IM, head-movement and Agree) in a given phase.
		d.	Copy-identification:
			 All and only repetitions (feature-values or SOs) introduced simultaneously
with Transfer are copies of elements within the phase.
		e.	 Transfer (final version):
			 Applied to a set of root SOs {Σ1, …, Σn}, Transfer
			 i.	 identifies copies within Σ1, …, Σn via (88d),
			 ii.	subjects the largest possible convergent term Σ′i of each Σi to Interpret
and Spell-Out, and
			 iii.	
eliminates the sum of Σ′i (called the interior of a phase) from the
workspace of NS.
		 f.	 UG employs unvalued features as a device to efficiently demarcate phase
cycles.
		 g.	 No violation of the IC (21) or the NTC (22) is warranted: referential
indices and distinctness marking, pre-NS assembly of LIs in the form of
Numeration or lexical subarray, etc., are thus naturally dispensed with in
favor of phase theory.
All in all, the overarching conclusion of this chapter is that, so long as we try to
approach the theory of bare phrase structure under the MC-based principles of
the IC and the NTC, our theory of syntax must accommodate the notion of cyclic
derivation by phase, as well as derivational simultaneity of Interpret, Spell-Out,
IM, head-movement and Agree, and their copy-identification, the sum of which
applies cyclically at each phase level in a given derivation. Various technical de-
vices such as indices, Numeration and lexical subarrays are shown to be dispens-
able. To the extent that these results have explanatory force, as I will argue in
the following chapters, we can regard the combination of the IC and the NTC as
providing a foundational rationale for the system of bare phrase structure and
derivation by phase.
It should be stressed that I am putting forward these technical analyses primar-
ily as a way to achieve an empirically adequate account of the generative capacity of
FL. Recall from § 2.2.3 that the problems of inclusiveness and tampering have their
roots in the old concerns of descriptive and explanatory adequacy. Specifically,
formulations of the IC and the NTC are rooted in the following old empirical
question.
	 (89)	 Why (and how) are instances of insertion and tampering severely restricted
in the syntax of natural language?
	 Chapter 2.  Bare phrase structure and cyclic derivation by phase	 63
The present chapter attempted to approach this problem by posing the desiderata
of the IC and the NTC. Earlier theories of transformations were by their very na-
ture systems of insertion and tampering, and therefore, it was a pressing empirical
problem for any framework of transformational generative grammar to explicate
how the theory could restrict applications of insertion and tampering on principled
grounds. In a nutshell, this chapter is an attempt to provide the simple answer in
(90) from the perspective of MC.
	 (90)	 Insertion and tampering are disallowed because there are no such operations
in syntax as a matter of principle.
The concepts of the IC and the NTC are minimalist formulations of this overarch-
ing empirical hypothesis.
Putting forward the claims in (88) is, of course, an empirical hypothesis that
should be tested against the facts about human language. The task for the following
chapters is to show how the theory of phases and bare phrase structure proposed
in this chapter can be proven to be adequate in terms of its empirical predictions.
chapter 3
Minimal head detection
in projection-free syntax
3.1	 Introduction
The theory of bare phrase structure under exploration holds that the compositional
structure of human-language expressions is exhaustively characterized by recursive
application of Merge. Merge is a binary set-formation operation that takes some
number (typically two) of syntactic objects (SOs), say α and β, and creates an
unordered set {α, β}.
	 (1)	Merge(α, β)	 =	a.	 {α, β}
				 b.	
α β
(order irrelevant)
(order irrelevant)
The output of Merge can constitute further input to the same operation: thus,
Merge can combine {α, β} with some other SO, say γ, forming another set-theoretic
structure {γ, {α, β}}. Under bare phrase structure, then, all phrase-markers gener-
ated by narrow syntax (NS) are reduced to set-theoretic objects of various orders.
The definition of syntactic objects (SOs) is reproduced here:
	(2)	
Syntactic Object (SO):
		 Σ is a syntactic object (SO) iff
		 a.	 Σ is a lexical item (LI), or
		 b.	 Σ is a set {Σ1, . . . , Σn}, where Σ1, . . . , Σn are SOs.
The question then is how much the properties of SEM and PHON, the interface
representations for CI and SM, can be exhaustively characterized by SOs. The
minimal theory of SEM and PHON keeps closely to SOs as defined in (2), inser-
tion of new features and tampering with internal structures being kept to the bare
minimum. It was specifically argued in the previous chapter that so long as we
keep to the conception of SOs as defined in (2), the theory of bare phrase struc-
ture maximally satisfies the Inclusiveness Condition (IC) and the No-Tampering
Condition (NTC).
	(3)	
Inclusiveness Condition (IC):
		 No elements absent from the Lexicon are introduced in the course of syntactic
derivation.
66	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(4)	
No-Tampering Condition (NTC):
		 No elements introduced by syntax are deleted or modified in the course of
syntactic derivation.
These constraints are put forward not only as deductive consequences of the SMT
but also as necessary parts of the hypothesis that syntax assumes no operations
of insertion and tampering, thus meeting the tripartite criteria of descriptive, ex-
planatory, and biological adequacy.
SOs, being merely sets, are not associated with any “labels” or distinct nonter-
minal symbols. The addition of new features to SOs is a straightforward violation
of the IC (3), which constitutes an integral part of our principled eradication of
insertion (and tampering) rules from the theory of syntax. Correspondingly, the
insertion of labels in bare phrase structure is a worrisome departure from the
SMT, subsidiary enrichment of UG (Chomsky 2007a: 23; see also Collins 2002,
Seely 2006). Then, we must ask if there is any ground to suppose that syntax must
provide a distinct mechanism of labeling.
The sixty years of research in the generative tradition have cemented lin-
guists’ convention of drawing labeled tree-diagrams. The idea of labeled phrase
structure owes its origin to the earlier transformational grammar advanced by
Chomsky (1955/1975b, 1957, 1965), in which it was assumed that base structures
of sentences are generated by the system of phrase structure rules (PSRs), each
of which takes a nonterminal symbol (such as NP, VP, and S) as its input and
expands it into a string of terminal and/or nonterminal symbols. The PSR-based
conception of phrase structure thus holds that all phrasal SOs are labeled by such
nonterminal symbols as a necessary consequence of compositional structuring.
X-bar theory developed by Chomsky (1970 et seq.) further advances the idea that
assignment of labels to phrasal nodes is achieved by projection of the features
of X0 up to the categories of X′ and X″. According to this conception of labeled
phrase structure, nonterminal symbols like X′ and X″ are “projections” of X: N′
is an intermediate projection of N, V″ is the maximal projection of V, and so
on. The class of possible nonterminal symbols is thus radically reduced to the
combination of locally projected features of lexical items and bar-level indices,
but the concept of labeled phrase structure was essentially carried over from
PSRs by and large intact.
Chomsky (1994, 1995b), in advancing bare phrase structure, attempted to
incorporate the concept of labeled phrase structure into the definition of Merge.
Chomsky specifically hypothesizes that when two LIs X and Y are combined,
forming {X, Y}, one of the LIs must be copied to the edge of this SO, forming
either {X, {X, Y}} or {Y, {X, Y}}, and that the copied LI effectively serves as the
label of the SO:
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 67
	 (5)	 Merge(X, Y)	 =	 a.	 {X, {X, Y}}, or
				 b.	 {Y, {X, Y}}
Thus, (5a) is labeled X, while (5b) is labeled Y.
If we straightforwardly represent these output representations in terms of
structurally equivalent tree-diagrams, we would get the following:
	 (6)	 Merge(X, Y)	 =	 a′.	
X Y
X
(order irrelevant)
	
X Y
X
(order irrelevant)
			 b′.	
X Y
Y
However, it was stipulated in Chomsky (1994, 1995b) that the output set-theoretic
objects of Merge in (5a, b) are somehow mapped to labeled tree-diagrams of the
following sort:
	(7)					 a″.	
X Y
X (order irrelevant)

X Y
X (order irrelevant)
								
b″.	
X Y
Y
The transformation from the real output of Merge in (5)/(6) to set-theoretically
inexplicable labeled structures in (7) was a pure stipulation, but it soon became a
standard hypothesis in the literature of bare phrase structure, presumably because
of its resemblance to the familiar labeled phrase structure.
However, if we attend to just the real set-theoretic objects in (5)/(6), {X,
{X, Y}} and {Y, {X, Y}}, the following should be rather clear: Chomsky (1994,
1995b) was essentially claiming that labeling of phrase structure is achieved by
copying one of the Merge-mates by means of Internal Merge (IM). If we were to
adopt this hypothesis, we would be forced to conclude that virtually every appli-
cation of Merge, EM or IM, should be accompanied by such subsidiary IM. This
virtually nullifies the effect of the EM vs. IM bifurcation, and correspondingly we
lose the simplest means of capturing the duality of semantics at CI (§ 2.4.1). Such
proliferation of copy-formation would significantly increase the computational
68	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
load of syntax, particularly because the IC (3) makes no room for referential indi-
ces or distinctness marking upon Select/Numeration-formation (§ 2.6). Moreover,
if we are right in assuming that Transfer must apply simultaneously with the
relevant copy-formation operations in order to let copy-identities reach SEM
and PHON, then, Chomsky’s IM-based mechanism of labeling leads to an unde-
sirable conclusion that every application of Merge (EM or IM) must constitute
a separate phase for Transfer, effectively going back to Epstein & Seely’s (2002)
“rule-as-cycle” model (see note 18 of Chapter 2). There is, then, little question to
the fact that the definition of Merge in (5) is a departure from the SMT, and we
are forced to stick to the simpler formulation of Merge in (1), which is further
forced by the principle of MC.
3.2	 Label = projection = endocentricity?
At this point, it is worth noting that “label(ing)” is often used ambigously to denote
several different concepts. In particular, the following three concepts, nonterminal
symbols, projection, and endocentricity (headedness), are very often treated as
interchangeable:
	 (8)	a.	 nonterminal symbols: symbols like S, NP, V′, etc. associated with phrasal
constituents
		b.	projection: duplication of features of an LI onto higher phrasal constituents
		c.	 endocentricity (headedness):1 centrality of a certain LI in determining the
distribution/interpretation of a constituent
1.	 While I will follow the conventional terminology in using the terms “headedness” and “en-
docentricity” interchangeably, it may be worth noting that the notion of endocentricity was
originally proposed by Bloomfield (1933: 194ff, 235–36) to refer to a concept different from
the one defined here (see Wujastyk 1982, Graffi 2001; see also Lyons 1968). For Bloomfield,
the endocentric construction is defined as a grammatical construction that fulfills the same
linguistic function as one of its constituents: therefore, poor John is an endocentric constituent,
as its categorial nature and distribution coincides with that of John, while in Vancouver is clas-
sified as exocentric, since its distribution is shared by neither in nor Vancouver. Endocentric
constructions in the Bloomfieldian sense are pretty much what generative linguists analyze as
constituents involving adjuncts. It is an open question whether it is justifiable to collapse the
distinction between the Bloomfieldian notion of endocentricity and the generativist notion of
headedness.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 69
While the definitions presented here should not be controversial, I will argue that
they should be carefully distinguished from each other. I will discuss how these
three concepts have become erroneously equated with each other, essentially since
the advent of X-bar theory (Chomsky 1970 et seq.).
As we have already seen, the concept of labeled phrase structure developed
from the earlier theory of phrase structure grammar (PSG), where phrase-markers
are generated step-by-step by a system of phrase structure rules (PSRs, rewrite
rules). (9) summarizes some familiar examples of PSRs, each of which takes the
nonterminal symbol on the left hand side as its input and expands it into the se-
quence of symbols on the right hand side.
	 (9)	a.	 S′ → COMP S
		b.	S → NP Infl VP
		c.	 Infl → Present, Past, will, …
		d.	VP → V NP
		e.	 NP → (D) N
		f.	 D → the, a, …
		g.	 N → boy, mother, student, apple, leaf, …
		h.	V → see, eat, hit, make, open, touch, …
According to the theory of PSG, nonterminal symbols like S, NP, and VP are gener-
ated and buried in phrase-markers as an automatic consequence of structure-gen-
eration, since they constitute necessary input and output of PSRs. Representational
labels in the form of nonterminal symbols (8a) were, in this sense, plainly indis-
pensable in the earlier PSG-based syntax.
In this respect, it was an ingenious decision to utilize the explanatory force
of this hypothetical construct to its limit. For example, X-bar theory put forward
by Chomsky (1970) extended the notion of nonterimal symbols to the account of
endocentricity. It holds that the class of possible PSRs can be radically reduced to
the following two general schemata, where a lexical item X is necessarily domi-
nated by an intermediate category X′, which in turn is necessarily dominated by
the maximal category X″ (Chomsky 1970; see also Jackendoff 1977 for tripartite
X-bar structure).
	 (10)	 X-bar schemata:
		a.	 X′	 → X (Y″) or (Y″) X
		b.	X″ → (Z″) X′
In X-bar theory, nonterminal symbols associated with phrasal constituents are
reduced to combinations of the lexical features of the head X and bar-level indices.
In this theory, there is a strong sense in which nonterminals like X′ and X″ are
70	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
“projections” of X: N′ and N″ are projections of N, V′ and V″ are projections of V,
and so on. That is, nonteriminal symbols = projection. This not only imposes a se-
vere restriction on possible forms of PSRs (see Stowell 1981, Chomsky 1986a, who
further maintain that the concept of (language-specific) PSRs can be eliminated
altogether), but it also provides room for an easy way to capture the endocentricity
of phrase structure, namely the hypothesis that projection is the basis of endocen-
tricity (i.e., projection = endocentricity).
The equation in (11) was thus advocated, and it has become one of the central
hypotheses in the tradition originating from X-bar theory.
	 (11)	 nonterminal symbols = projection = endocentricity
However, the theory of bare phrase structure advanced by Chomsky (1994 et seq.)
changed the picture. It holds that the compositional structure of human-language
expressions is exhaustively characterized by recursive application of Merge, an
elementary set-formation operation. Since no known condition of set theory as-
sociates sets with “labels” or distinctive nonterminal symbols, only stipulations
can guarantee assignment of any such extraneous entities to set-theoretic objects
generated by Merge. Correspondingly, the representation of labels and projections
in bare phrase structure is a plain departure from the strong minimalist thesis
(SMT), constituting an enrichment of UG (Chomsky 2007a: 23; see also Collins
2002, Seely 2006).
It has been commonly supposed that we still need to stipulate a distinct mech-
anism of labeling/projection even in bare phrase structure, in order to capture
the facts about endocentricity. However, note that such an argument would go
through only if it is further shown that labeling by projection is necessary to en-
code endocentricity. This was arguably the case in the earlier PSR-based syntax,
where nonterminal symbols were anyway generated as a necessary component of
compositional structuring, but not any more in bare phrase structure, where such
entities are bound to be a departure from the SMT.
In this context, it should be noted that there are some proposals regard-
ing endocentricity that make little to no recourse to labeling by projection. For
example, I contend that the series of work starting with Chomsky (1995b) can
and should be understood as paving the way for a projection-free account of
endocentricity: Chomsky (2000a) hypothesizes that determination of the head of
a set-theoretic object {α, β} correlates with selectional or probe-goal dependency
between α and β, an idea followed by a number of researchers. Under this pro-
posal, {α, β} is headed by (the head of) α if α selects or probes β. Collins (2002)
points out that this sort of selection/probe-based mechanism can be adapted
to encode the centrality of “head” LIs without making recourse to projection,
and his locus principle is a particular attempt to pursue this (see also Seely 2006
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 71
and Narita 2009a for related discussion). Although the selection/probe-based
mechanism of head-detection became unavailable due to the elimination of se-
lection from NS (Chomsky 2004: 112–113; see also Pesetsky 1982), Chomsky
(2008) puts forward another algorithm of head-detection (called the “labeling
algorithm”) in (12):
	 (12)	 a.	 In {H, α}, H an LI, H is the head.(Chomsky 2008: 145, (2)–(3), restated)
		b.	If α is internally merged to β, forming {α, β} then the head of β is the head
of {α, β}.
Chomsky (2012, 2013) further suggests to eliminate (12b) from the algorithm of
head-detection, reducing it to minimal search for an LI in each phrase (12a) (see
also Piattelli-Palmarini et al. 2009: 52ff). Let us refer to this minimal search-based
definition of endocentricity as Minimal Head Detection (MHD):
	(13)	Minimal Head Detection (MHD):
		 For each SO Σ, define the most prominent LI within Σ as the head of Σ.
These are all attempts to account for endocentricity without labeling/projection,
departing from the equation in (11). Specifically, MHD is articulating the view
that head-detection may be reduced to the third-factor principles of computational
efficiency (Chomsky 2005), maximally respecting the SMT. See Chomsky (2012,
2013), Ott (2011a, c), Narita (2012b, c), Lohndal (2012), and Narita & Fukui (2012)
for various explorations of MHD.
Building on the prospect of the projection-free approaches to endocentric-
ity, this chapter aims to make a step toward constructing a theory of bare phrase
structure without labeling/projection. It will be argued in this chapter that, when
coupled with the theory of phases developed in the previous chapter, projection-
free syntax is indeed superior to projection-bound syntax both in terms of empiri-
cal coverage and theory-internal simplicity.
Before proceeding, it should also be noted that there have been some proposals
that posit somewhat less local (and often not total) instantiations of projection,
sometimes called “feature-percolation.” Grimshaw’s (1991/2005 et seq.) notion of
“extended projection” is one such example. See also Nishigauchi (1990b, 1991) for
wh-feature-percolation, and Selkirk (1995) among others for focus-projection­
.
These mechanisms of feature-percolation are again residues of earlier labeled
phrase structure that have been designed to meet an arbitrarily chosen set of
descriptive demands. Just like labeling by projection, bare phrase structure by
definition provides no room for these extraneous mechanisms. Moreover, an even
more serious problem with feature-percolation is that there is no theory of it. If
UG includes feature-percolation, we must provide a theory which significantly
complicates UG and supplies at least the following definitions:
72	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	 (14)	 The theory of feature-percolation must specify:
		 a.	 the class of features F that can undergo feature-percolation (and its comple-
ment F̄, the class of features that cannot undergo feature-percolation)
		 b.	 the operation O responsible for feature-percolation
		 c.	 the locality constraints on O (presumably relative to each feature in F)
		 d.	 the applicability constraints on O (including [±Obligatory] specification,
presumably relative to each feature in F and highly context-sensitive)
		 e.	 the parameters in (a)–(d) relative to individual languages
No complete theory of (14) is currently available, nor does one seem to be forth-
coming. We must therefore ask whether there is indeed strong enough evidence
in favor of feature-percolation to force such a departure from the SMT. This
question is not new, and various negative answers to this question are currently
entertained by a number of researchers. For example, Cable (2007, 2010) and
Heck (2008, 2009) argue that wh-feature-percolation can be eliminated from
syntactic theory (see specifically § 3.4.2 and § 5.2.3.2 for relevant arguments). See
also Uriagereka (2008), Irurtzun (2006, 2007) for some suggestive approaches to
focus. I will build on the prospect of these emerging approaches to percolation-
free syntax, and conclude that even the most local (and total) instantiation of
feature-percolation, viz. labeling by projection, can be dispensed with in favor
of bare phrase structure.
3.3	 Why endocentricity?
Even though the theory of bare phrase structure eliminates nonterminal sym-
bols and representational projection, it still seems clear that “noun phrases” are
interpreted in a “nouny” way, while “verb phrases” are interpreted in a “verby”
way, and likewise phrases “headed by” P, A, C, T, etc., are all interpreted differ-
ently. Whatever theoretical analyses one may entertain to describe this intuition,
endocentricity seems to have a prominent effect on the CI-side of interpretation.
Moreover, the effect of endocentricity presumably governs the computa-
tion of the phonological component as well. Specifically, virtually all the past
proposals on linearization (i.e., mapping of SOs to a corresponding sequence of
LIs readable by SM) seem to share the fundamental hypothesis that linearization
makes recourse to labeling by projection. Various versions of the Kaynean Linear
Correspondence Axiom (LCA) (see Kayne 1994, Chomsky 1995b, Epstein et al.
1998, Moro 2000, Sheehan 2010, 2013a, b among others), Fukui & Takano’s (1998)
theory of “Demerge,” and directionality parameters of all kinds (Chomsky 1981 et
seq.) are all formulated with recourse to labels and projections, and some proposals
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 73
that attempt to eliminate recourse to labels still rest on various notions of “head”
(see Uriagereka 1999, Richards 2004, and Kayne 2011).
Therefore, we are interested in asking the following why-question:
	 (15)	 Why does the effect of endocentricity/headedness arise at SEM/PHON in bare
phrase structure?
What (15) is calling for is an explanation of the effect of endocentricity, not so
much a description of it. As mentioned earlier, countless descriptions of endocen-
tricity have been put forward since X-bar theory (Chomsky 1970, Jackendoff 1977
et seq.), typically making heavy use of labeling by projection. But these previous
proposals have failed to address the why-question, largely because they have re-
garded labeling by projection as an axiom of syntactic analysis and thereby trivial-
ized that very why-question as a matter of course. Departing from this tradition,
then, what can we say to explain endocentricity?
Importantly, the minimalist program (MP) offers a ready-made answer to such
a question, namely (16):
	 (16)	 Endocentricity arises at SEM/PHON because it is the simplest mode of
interpretation.
There is little doubt that this is the desideratum that we are led to defend in the
pursuit of the SMT. The question is how we can make sense of this answer.
Let us first consider the relation between syntax and CI. Syntax is the compo-
nent of FL that generates SOs and maps them to the interface with CI (SEM), and
CI is the performance system that receives these SOs via SEM and exploits them
for human thoughts. We follow Lasnik et al.’s (2005) terminology and refer to the
mapping of SOs to SEM as Interpret. Interpret and its phonological counterpart
(Spell-Out, the mapping of SOs to PHON) constitute Transfer (see Chomsky 2004
et seq.). The generation of SOs and their mapping to SEM via Interpret should be
achieved in an efficient and optimal fashion, so long as the SMT holds.
Among other things, an important consequence of the efficient exploitation of
SOs by CI should be the strict compositionality of semantic interpretation. Simply
put, it holds that the formal semantic properties of a linguistic expression is con-
tingent on those of its parts. Captured in terms of bare phrase structure, then, it
should be that the interpretation assigned to an SO {α, β} at SEM is determined in
some way or another by the properties of α and β.
	(17)	Strict Compositionality of Interpret:
		 The value of Interpret({α, β}) is determined by the values of Interpret(α) and
Interpret(β).
74	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
This is arguably an optimal way of assigning semantic interpretation to phrasal
SOs, rooted in computational efficiency, and this should be why syntax gener-
ates SOs at all: otherwise, there is little reason for syntax to generate hierarchical
structures to begin with.
In order to assign compositional interpretation to each SO {α, β}, then,
Interpret will need to “inspect” semantic properties of α and β. Note that each of
α and β may be another composite object {γ, δ}, whose semantic properties are
then determined by γ and δ. Then, the relevant inspection may go on, recursively,
all the way down to an “atomic element” whose semantic properties are not depen-
dent on any smaller entities. These elements are called lexical items (LIs), acquired
from radically impoverished linguistic data from the surrounding environment
and stored in the Lexicon, presumably with the help of an innately endowed ca-
pacity of concept-formation (the uniformly rapid and successful acquisition of
LIs is in itself a quite marvelous fact about human infancy, but see § 3.7 for some
relevant discussion). Then, (18) is minimally required from the principle of strict
compositionality:
	(18)	Semantic features of LIs:
		 Features of each LI H provide, at the very least, instructions for Interpret
regarding how H contributes to the interpretation of the SO it is embedded
into, the smallest one of which is {H, α}.2
We may refer to such features of LIs as semantic features.3 In this framework,
Interpret can start assigning interpretation to each SO Σ only after it inspects the
2.	 We may speculate that MC restricts the information (features) stored in each LI H to a
bare minimum, i.e., what is minimally required for compositional interpretation of the small-
est compositional SO H can be embedded into, namely {H, α}. This restriction leads to the
least complicated set of Interpret rules and the least complicated distribution of semantic fea-
tures, a desirable result in terms of MC. It may also provide a partial explanation of why n
for Merge(Σ1 . . . , Σn) is almost always restricted to n ≤ 2 (leaving room for singleton sets {H};
see note 21 of Chapter 4 and § 5.2.4): H’s feature storage is severely restricted by MC and it is
generally too minimal to determine the interpretation of {H, XP, YP, . . . }, as it would require
a considerable amount of computation (i.e., syntax in a broad sense) to determine how H’s
semantic features apply to XP, YP, . . . , and in what order. In this manner, the proposed theory
of MHD may provide background for Chomsky’s (2008: 138) speculation, attributed to Luigi
Rizzi: “arguably restriction of computational resources limits n for Merge to two, as Luigi Rizzi
suggests, thus yielding the “unambiguous paths” structure postulated by Kayne (1981[b]).”
(emphasis added by HN)
3.	 See McGilvray (1998, 2002, 2009) and Pietroski (2005, 2008 et seq.) for discussion of the
notion of semantic features as instructions for “concept”-fetching at CI.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 75
internal constitution of Σ and finds a designated head LI that can serve as a locus of
compositional interpretation.4
Now, so long as the design of FL is governed by the third-factor principle
of efficient computation, the inspection of LIs by Interpret should be kept to its
minimum. I maintain that MHD is this very minimized inspection operation.
MHD, working in tandem with the semantic features of LIs (18), guarantees (19):
	 (19)	 Each phrasal SO can efficiently receive compositional interpretation at SEM
via the semantic features of the head.
This much is empirically necessary for any theory of SEM, and thus it strictly ad-
heres to the SMT. Based on this hypothesis, we can give well-defined theoretical
content to the notion of “head” in these terms:
	(20)	Head:
		The head of an SO Σ is the LI that determines compositional interpretation of
Σ at SEM by means of its features.
In this line of reasoning, then, the endocentricity of phrase structure arises at SEM
simply as a result of optimal exploitation of SOs via strict compositionality.
The thesis advocated here can be formulated as follows:
	(21)	Optimal Compositionality Thesis (OCT) (to be revised shortly):
		 Endocentricity (head-detection) reduces to the minimized inspection of
semantic features of LIs at Interpret.
This is what I take to be a promising way of rationalizing the minimalist answer
(16) to the why-question (15): endocentricity is reduced to the simplest mode of
compositional interpretation. I will investigate some of the grounds and conse-
quences of (21) in the following discussion.
Notice also that if we follow Chomsky (2012, 2013) in speculating that MHD
derives from the domain-general principle of the third factor, it is reasonable to
suppose that the effect of endocentricity, optimal for CI, has a correlative influence
on the mapping to PHON as well, even though FL is designed primarily for internal
thoughts (i.e., for CI purposes) (Chomsky 2007a, b, 2008). Especially under the
4.	 The standard theory is that each LI is a bundle of formal, semantic and phonological features
pre-defined in the Lexicon, understood as the storage of atomic Merge-inputs (Chomsky 1995b
et seq.). The framework of Distributed Morphology (DM) points to an alternative approach, ac-
cording to which certain semantic and phonological features are assigned post-NS at Interpret/
Spell-Out, via the “Encyclopedia” and “Vocabulary”, respectively (see Halle & Marantz 1993,
1994, Marantz 1996, 1997, 2007). While the choice of these two competing theories is left open
for future research, even within the DM framework, the inspection of LIs is a prerequisite for
the assignment of semantic and phonological interpretations to them.
76	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
assumption that Interpret occurs concurrently with Spell-Out (Chomsky 2004 et
seq.), MHD, applying primarily for the sake of Interpret, is expected to feed infor-
mation about endocentricity to Spell-Out as well. Thus, the thesis in (21) may be
further generalized to cover the computation at Spell-Out as well:
	(22)	Optimal Compositionality Thesis (OCT):
		 Endocentricity (head-detection) reduces to the minimized inspection of fea-
tures of LIs relevant to compositional interpretation at Interpret/Spell-Out.
Indeed, I will propose in Chapter 4 that “phonological features” of LIs also contain
information required for the MHD-based computation at Spell-Out, including
instructions for linearization (see also note 4).
3.4	 The Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC)
3.4.1	 Excluding exocentric “XP-YP” merger
As we noted in (20), we identified the head of an SO Σ as the LI that determines
compositional interpretation of Σ at SEM by means of its semantic features. Then,
it follows rather straightforwardly that any SO whose head cannot be determined
via MHD would fail to receive compositional interpretation.
Indeed, Chomsky (2013) goes on to suggest that only SOs whose heads are
identified by MHD (13) can receive legitimate interpretation at CI. According to
this hypothesis, XPs whose heads cannot be detected by MHD (13) would violate
the principle of Full Interpretation (FI):
	(23)	Full Interpretation (FI):
		 Every element of SEM and PHON contributes to interpretation.
Of particular interest in this context are SOs of the form {XP, YP}, which are not
endocentric according to MHD (13), since they lack a head LI that can immediately
present its semantic features for Interpret({XP, YP}). Therefore, such SOs would
fail to receive compositional interpretation, violating FI.
If this is on the right track, it follows that any “exocentric” (non-endocentric)
SOs of the form {XP, YP}, for which MHD (13) fails to determine heads, are ruled
out by FI. We may refer to this consequence of FI as the ban on exocentricity.
	(24)	Ban on Exocentricity:
		 Exocentric (non-endocentric) SOs of the form {XP, YP} are ruled out by FI.
This consequence of FI derives a rather stringent constraint on the applicability of
Merge, when coupled with the NTC ((4) reproduced here).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 77
	(4)	
No-Tampering Condition (NTC):
		 No elements introduced by syntax are deleted or modified in the course of
syntactic derivation.
Due to the NTC, all SOs constructed by Merge must preserve their internal struc-
tures throughout the derivation. Specifically, once generated, SOs of the form {XP,
YP} can never cease to be exocentric, because the NTC precludes any operation
from tampering with SOs. If NS is required to satisfy the ban on exocentricity while
still keeping to the NTC, then, NS is effectively forced not to generate any exocen-
tric objects. Therefore, the combination of FI and the NTC derives the following
condition, which we may refer to as the Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC):
	(25)	Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC):
		 Merge can only generate SOs whose head LI H is immediately detectable via
minimal search at Interpret/Spell-Out.
On one hand, endocentric structures ruled in by this constraint include bare LIs
(H), SOs consisting of an LI H and a phrase XP ({H, XP}), and singleton sets of
an LI ({H}).5 On the other hand, the ESC strictly precludes Merge from applying to
two nonhead XPs, because the merger would result in {XP, YP} whose head cannot
be determined via MHD. According to the ESC, recursive Merge can only add
heads to SOs, and structures generated thereby take the form of recursive LI-SO
branching, excluding {XP, YP}.
At face value, this prediction seems to be contrary to the observation that in-
stances of “XP-YP structures” are abundant in natural languages, and to be falsified
by simple sentences like [[the man] [kissed the girl]]. However, I will claim in the
rest of this chapter that the ESC can nevertheless be made sustainable, if we adopt
the conclusion reached in Chapter 2 that syntactic derivation proceeds cyclically
phase by phase (Chomsky 2001, 2004, 2008; see also Uriagereka 1999).
Stated in the terminology introduced in the previous chapter, a phase is an SO
to which the operation called Transfer applies upon its completion. To recapitulate,
Transfer is basically the composite of Interpret and Spell-Out, and it cyclically
strips off the interior of each phase, sending it to SEM and PHON. The following
characterization of the operation will be sufficient for the purpose of this chapter,
but see Chapter 2 for a more detailed formulation.
	(26)	Transfer (see (76) of Chapter 2 for a more precise definition):
		 Applied to a phase Σ, Transfer subjects the interior Σ′ (the sister of the phase
head) of Σ to Interpret and Spell-Out, eliminating Σ′ from the workspace
of NS.
5.	 For the role of singleton set-formation, see note 21 of Chapter 4 and § 5.2.4.
78	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
As we discussed, Transfer is arguably a necessary component of minimal syntax,
arising as a result of strict adherence to the conditions imposed by the IC, the
NTC, and FI. Specifically, I provided various arguments for the hypothesis that
the phase-interior subjected to Transfer will be “forgotten” (as remarked already
by Chomsky 2008: 143), i.e., eliminated from the active workspace of NS. By doing
so, Transfer has the effect of periodically reducing the domain in the active work-
space by subjecting the interior of a phase to Interpret and Spell-Out. For example,
if a phase head X takes a phrase YP as its sister, Transfer eliminates YP from the
derivational workspace at the completion of the phase headed by X, and subjects
it to Interpret and Spell-Out.
	(27)	
X YP
…
Z X
Transfer
b.
a. 	
X
As briefly remarked at the end of § 2.5.1, I put forward the hypothesis that Transfer
subjects to Interpret and Spell-Out not only YP (and elements within it) but also
all the syntactic relations established with regard to it, maximally reducing the
computational load upon completion of each cycle. I specifically assume that
the information subjected to Transfer includes the “constitute”-relation that YP
has established with X by forming {X, YP} (the definition of “constitute,” (19) of
Chapter 2, is reproduced here).
	(28)	Constitute (Consist-of):
		α and β constitute γ (or conversely, γ consists of α and β) iff γ is the output of
Merge(α, β).
Thus, after Transfer applying to a phase {X, YP}, only the phase head X itself will
be left for further computation.
A question arises as to how different this resultant “bare LI” X is before and
after the application of Transfer. This is an open question, but it is clear at least
that such an LI is still syntactically accessible. In particular, it should be able to
constitute further input to Merge even after Transfer. Thus, after Transfer, nothing
precludes X from merging with some SO, say ZP, as shown below.
	(27)	c.	 X	 	 d.	
ZP X
			 Merge with ZP
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 79
Notice that MHD can effectively determine the head of the new SO in (27d), since
the LI X stands as the most prominent LI by all means. Thus, the new SO can
receive compositional interpretation via X’s semantic features, satisfying the ESC
and FI, even though it indirectly involves the merger of two phrases, ZP and {X,
YP}, mediated by cyclic Transfer. In the bare phrase structure framework where
complement and spec(ifier) mean nothing more than first-merged and later-merged
(Chomsky 1994 et seq.; see Chomsky 2007a: 11), we may say that this “second-
merged” ZP counts as a “specifier” of X, informally speaking (however, I will argue
later in § 5.2.3 that the notion of “specifier” has no role to play in the theory of
linguistic computation).
More generally, I will assume the following as a consequence of cyclic deriva-
tion by phase:
	 (29)	 If Transfer eliminates an SO α, the phrasal SO {X, α} within the workspace of
NS is reduced to X.
Such an LI X can be merged with some other SO while still conforming to the
ESC. In this manner, (29) provides room for apparent XP-YP merger. The idea that
Transferred phases count as atomic head elements has been proposed in various
places. For example, Uriagereka (1999) and Nunes & Uriagereka (2000) propose
that Transfer/Spell-Out has the effect of eliminating all but the topmost label of an
XP from the derivational workspace. This proposal has been adopted by Sheehan
(2013b) among others. However, it should be clear from the present discussion
that here I am explicitly departing from their label-based conception of the “at-
omization” effect of Transfer. Instead of making recourse to labeling/projection, I
propose that the relevant atomizing effect arises simply as a result of eliminating
not only the phase-interior XP but also the “constitute”-relation it has established
with the phase head H by forming {H, XP}.
As a concrete example, consider the merger of the external argument to the
edge of v* as in (30), a typical instance of apparent “XP-YP” external merger. Recall
from § 2.5.2 that I will adopt the hypothesis that nominals are uniformly headed
by the functional category K(ase) (Fukui 1986/1995b: 107, fn. 11, Lamontagne &
Travis 1986, Bittner & Hale 1996a, b, Neeleman & Weerman 1999, Asbury 2008,
Caha 2009 and references cited therein).
	(30)	
K
D NP
+
v∗
V Obj
80	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Prima facie, the instance of EM in (30) would be a violation of the ESC. However,
recall our discussion from Chapter 2 that v* and K, as well as C, P, etc., can consti-
tute their own phases. Then, cyclic Transfer strips off all the structural information
related to their interiors, and thereby reduces each phase of the form {X, YP} to a
simplex phase-head LI X, as shown in (31b). These heads can be freely combined
via Merge, while still conforming to the ESC (31c).
	(31)	
K
K
D NP
v∗
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
Merge
K v∗
a.
b.
c.
The head of the resultant SO can be determined via MHD, a desired result. In
the traditional conception of projection-based syntax, the output of the rele-
vant merger is labeled and headed by v* via projection, with KP becoming the
“spec(ifier)” of v*. This head-spec relation is regarded as a necessary condition for
KP to receive the agent/causer θ-role from v*.6 Eradicating labeling by projec-
tion, we can instead argue that endocentricity emerges as a result of MS-based
definition of head-detection (MHD), with the help of cyclic derivation by phase.
Incidentally, notice that K appears to be as prominent as v* in (31c). Readers may
wonder if MHD may also single out K as the head of (31c). I adopt the assump-
tion that v*’s headedness is required for v*’s θ-marking (see (32); cf. Narita 2009a,
Epstein 2009), or more generally:
	(32)	θ-role assignment by H to α is achieved in the structure {H, α} created by EM.
Thus I must ensure that v* always stands as the head of (31c). We may simply
assume that the “wrong” choice would result in semantic anomaly at SEM and
thus it is filtered out by some CI-interface requirement (such as the θ-Criterion).
However, for reasons to be explicated in note 21 of Chapter 4, I would like to
propose that singleton set-formation by Merge may also be adopted to effectively
6.	 However, see Narita & Fukui (2012) for argument that this conventional assumption is
questionable. See also Marantz (1984) for the idea that external θ-roles are assigned not by V
but by VP.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 81
disambiguate endocentricity: K may first form a singleton {K}, which can then be
merged with v* and form {{K}, v*}. K is less prominent in this SO than v*, thus the
SO is unambiguously headed by v* via MHD.
Recall our discussion from § 2.5.1 that elimination upon interpretation by
Transfer is of a principled sort: it strongly contributes to periodic reduction of
memory load, meeting the desideratum of efficient computation (see note 20 of
Chapter 2 and the discussion around it). I will argue below for another important
function of this operation, namely to assist compositional interpretation via MHD
by cyclic reduction of phase-interiors.
As we discussed in § 2.5.2, the only significant condition for phasehood is the
convergence of its interior, which follows from FI (23):
	 (33)	 An SO Σ is subjected to Transfer as soon as a certain term Σ′ (i.e., the interior)
of Σ becomes convergent.
I specifically assume that the external argument can be merged with v* and re-
ceive the agent/causer θ-role from v* before or after Transfer has applied to the
complement of v*. Thus, (34) also counts as a legitimate derivation to achieve the
relevant external merger.
	(34)	
K
D NP
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
a.
b.
c.
d.
K v∗
V Obj
Merge
v∗
V Obj
K
Transfer
v∗
K
Either way, after cyclic Transfer applies to the v*-phase and sends its interior to
SEM and PHON, what is left is an SO that can be headed by v* via MHD.
82	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
The derivation in (34) points to a more general conclusion, namely that cyclic
Transfer does not always ensure reduction of the entire phase to a simplex head.
Not only v* but also K stand at the edge of the v*-phase in (34c), and v*-phase-level
Transfer leaves both of them accessible for further computation. Therefore, cyclic
reduction to a head LI is a privilege only of “specifier”-less phases of the form {X,
YP}, of which the v*-phase in (31) but not the one in (34) is an example. In the
same vein, Transfer of K’s complement does not always reduce the K-phase to a
simplex LI. For example, if some operator Op internal to the nominal undergoes
successive cyclic A′-movement to the edge of K, resulting in an SO Σ = {Op, {K,
[XP … tOp … ]}} (with tOp a copy of Op), Transfer of K’s complement XP only re-
duces Σ to {Op, K}, which is still phrasal.
	(35)	
Op
K
…tOp
…
Op K
Transfer
a. b.
We will discuss cases involving IM in the next section.
3.4.2	 Internal Merge and endocentricity
The above discussion shows that apparent cases of XP-YP external merger can still
comply with the ESC, as long as at least one of the two XPs is a phase of the form
{X, YP} and thus can be reduced by Transfer to a simplex LI X. In this section,
we will extend our discussion to cases of “XP-movement,” namely XP-YP internal
merger. I will argue that they can also be made to comply with the ESC by making
recourse to cyclic derivation by phase.
3.4.2.1	 No XP-YP Internal Merger
In bare phrase structure, the movement transformation is reduced to IM, which
creates a new occurrence of the moving element at the edge of the target phrase.
IM leaves a copy of the former in its original position, thus it yields the “copy
theory of movement” (Chomsky 1993, 1995b). IM comes as free as EM, since only
stipulations can preclude Merge from taking as its input either two independently
constructed SOs (EM) or two SOs one of which is contained within the other (IM)
(Chomsky 2004, 2007a, 2008). Our discussion so far was restricted to cases of EM,
but the ESC should apply to cases of IM as well.
Consider a case of IM of β to the edge of α, as schematized in (36).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 83
	(36)	 α
…β…
…tβ
…
β α
IM
Here, α contains the original occurrence of β, and the application of IM creates
another occurrence of β at the edge of α, leaving the copy of β in its original posi-
tion. How can such an application of IM comply with the ESC? The ESC requires
that either α or β be a head, but in this case, α cannot be, because it is by definition
phrasal: it contains an occurrence of another SO β. Then, the only way to make (36)
endocentric is to restrict β to being a head LI, which I denote here with H, as in (37).
	(37)	
α
…H…
…H…
H α
IM
a. b.
We are thus forced to conclude (38):
	 (38)	 Only LIs can undergo IM in conformity with the ESC.
This restriction seems to be contrary to the observation that XP-movement is
abundant in human language. Thus, any instance of “XP”-movement may appear
to falsify (38). However, I will argue that the concept of “XP”-movement is only
illusory, and best eliminated in favor of (38).
3.4.2.2	 A-movement and K(ase)
Consider a typical instance of A-movement in (39a), which dislocates KP to a
position traditionally characterized as “Spec-T”:
	(39)	a.	 [The boy]i ti will kiss Mary.
		b.	
KPi
T
KPi
v′
Nonendocentric structures of the form {XP, YP} are excluded by the ESC, and
the same should apply to the one in (39b) as well. However, note that the moving
SO constitutes its own phase, headed by K. Then, the interior of K is subjected
to Transfer upon the completion of the K-phase, and KP is thereby reduced to a
bare LI K. Then, what gets A-moved later is just a phase-head LI K. The relevant
derivation is sketched below.
84	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	 (40)	 a.	 Transfer at the completion of the subject K-phase.
			
K K
D NP
Transfer
		 b.	 Recursive Merge builds T′.	 c.	IM
			
T
K v′	
K
T
tK
v′
Importantly, the SO in (40c) takes the form of {H, XP} and thus counts as endo-
centric in terms of MHD. I would like to propose that this is how the instance of
IM in (40) conforms to the ESC: in our MHD-based approach, A-movement to
Spec-T can be reanalyzed as involving IM of a phase-head LI K.
Note that K’s interior, {theD, boyNP} in (39), is pronounced at a position cor-
responding to Spec-T, not at the original Spec-v position (cf. *⊘K will the boy
kiss Mary, as a declarative sentence). More generally, empirical evidence suggests
that IM of a phase-head LI H always “pied-pipes” its Transferred interior XP
for the purpose of phonological interpretation. How can we ensure this result,
even though what is actually moving is only an LI? I contend that the cyclicity
of Transfer/Spell-Out is the key: recall from Chapter 2 that Transfer renders the
interior XP inaccessible to NS, a constraint referred to as the Phase-Impenetrability
Condition (PIC) (cf. Uriagereka 1999 and Chomsky 2000a, 2004, 2008):
	(41)	Phase-Impenetrability Condition (PIC):
		 After Transfer applies to a phase Σ, the interior of Σ becomes inaccessible to
further computation of NS.
XP gets interpreted as a sister of H at the H-phase-level Spell-Out (as in (40a)), cru-
cially prior to the application of IM of H (K in (40c)). Specifically, the mechanism
of “linearization,” constituting part of Spell-Out, converts {H, XP} into a chunked
LI-sequence, at the outermost edge of which lies the phase head H. Then, assum-
ing the impenetrability of Spelled-Out domains, further IM of H will never alter
the internal coherence of the H-phase’s phonological interpretation. Therefore, XP
always gets pronounced in proximity to the moved H as a necessary consequence
of cyclic Spell-Out and the PIC, a desirable result. Readers are referred to § 4.4 for
further details of the proposed linearization mechanism.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 85
What remains to be explained is the fact that typically the highest occurrence
of H is chosen to be pronounced in association with XP (see Nunes 2004 for some
related discussion). We might speculate that the choice of the highest occurrence
is in part motivated by reduction of the burden of processing: all but one copy of
a chain is to be erased at PHON, presumably due to minimization of morpho-
phonological computation (cf. Chomsky 2008: 146); processing would be further
eased if the highest (which is typically the leftmost) is chosen to be pronounced,
provided that the problem of finding the gap(s)/trace(s) of moved elements can
rely on the directionality of left-to-right processing.
It should also be noted in this context that there are cases that involve pied-pip-
ing of apparent “specifiers.” The possessor of nominal phrases is a typical instance:
	 (42)	 a.	 [[the student’s] ⊘D father]i seems [ti to be angry at Mary].
		b.	[[[John’s] ⊘D father’s] ⊘D portrait]i was found ti recently.
The ESC forces us to assume that the moving nominal phrase is actually a phase-
head LI accompanying the previously transferred interior. Then, the surface form
suggests that the phase-interior actually contains the possessor. This fact is prob-
lematic for the traditional idea that nominals are headed by D(eterminer) and
that D takes the possessor as its specifier (Brame 1981, 1982, Fukui & Speas 1986,
Abney 1987): if D is the highest phase head for a nominal, Transfer applying to
the sister of D cannot affect the possessor at the edge of D. This is one of the
reasons why I assume that there is a phase-head LI that occupies the highest posi-
tion of all nominal arguments, which I dub K(ase) (Fukui 1986/1995b: 107, fn. 11,
Lamontagne & Travis 1986, Bittner & Hale 1996a, b, Neeleman & Weerman 1999,
Asbury 2008, Caha 2009 and references cited therein; cf. Chomsky’s 2007a n*), and
that its phase-interior domain contains the possessor as well as D. As already noted
in § 2.5.2, I will further assume that K consists of the following unvalued features:
(a) [uCase],7 (b) a full set of unvalued quantificational features [uQ] whose values
are determined via Agree with the matching D ([±Definite], [±Quantifier], [±WH],
etc.) and (c) a full set of unvalued φ-features [uφ] to be matched with D and N’s [vφ].
	(43)	K(ase):
		a.	 [uCase] (to be valued by Agree with C, v*, P, etc.)
		b.	[uQ] (to be valued by Agree with D; [±Definite], [±Quantifier], [±WH],
etc.)
		c.	 [uφ] (to be valued by Agree with D and N)
7.	 Although I adopt the conventional description that abstract Case is the “formal feature par
excellence” of nominals (Chomsky 1995b: 278–279), see note 28 of Chapter 2 for the notion of
abstract Case.
86	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
The K-phase derivation in (58) from Chapter 2 is reproduced here as (44).
	(44)	a.	
K
[uCase,uQ,uφ]
D
[vQ,vφ]
N
[vφ]
		
b.	
[uCase, v Q, v φ]
K
Transfer
D
[vQ,vφ]
N
[vφ]
		
c.	
			 K
			 [uCase,vQ,vφ]
As shown in (44b), K’s [uQ] and [uφ] are valued by Agree with D and N, apply-
ing at the K-phase. Once valued, K’s [vQ] and [vφ] remain accessible for higher
probes, constituting goals of φ-feature agreement with T, v*, etc. Valuation of K’s
[uCase] is achieved by Agree with various Case-assigning categories like C, v*, P,
etc., applying in the next phase.
Various motivations for the KP-analysis of nominals will be discussed in sev-
eral places in this chapter.8
3.4.2.3	 A′-movement: Extending Cable’s eliminative approach to pied-piping
In the previous example, we discussed a case of A-movement by the subject. We
now turn to A′-movement. Let’s consider the following example, where a PP con-
taining a wh-element undergoes wh-movement into Spec-C.
	(45)	[At which station]i was John reading a newspaper ti?
Such examples have been customarily analyzed in terms of feature-percolation,
typically of the [WH]-feature. According to this analysis, entertained by, e.g.,
Nishigauchi (1990a, b, 1991) among many others, the wh-feature of which gets
8.	 Although I will assume the uniform presence of the KP-layer, many researchers propose
that the existence of D, as well as ϕ-features thereof, is parametrized across languages (Fukui
1986/1995b, 1988, Chierchia 1998, Bošković 2008; see also Fukui & Zushi 2008 and Boeckx 2012;
but see also Abney 1987, Ramchand & Svenonius 2009, Watanabe 2006, 2008 and references
cited therein for discussion on the universality of D).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 87
percolated up to some higher phrasal node, here as high as the PP node, and as a
result, C’s attraction of the [WH]-feature can “pied-pipe” the whole PP. The analysis
is schematized as follows:
	 (46)	 Traditional WH-feature percolation analysis:
		
C[uWH]
... PP[WH]
P
at
DP[WH]
D[WH]
which
NP
station
feature-percolation
However, once we follow Chomsky (2004, 2008: 140) in assuming that IM ap-
plies (as) freely (as EM) unless barred by some other constraints, the WH-feature
Agree-relation to the moving wh-phrase is no longer a necessary condition for
wh-pied-piping, which in turn undermines the necessity of assuming WH-feature
percolation. Cable (2007, 2010) argues, providing ample data from Tlingit, that the
apparent wh-pied-piping phenomenon should be reanalyzed as movement of an
XP headed by a separate functional category Q (see Watanabe 1992a, b, Hagstrom
1998, Kishimoto 2005). According to the Q-based analysis, a modified version of
which I will adopt for the present study, the moving wh-phrase is first licensed
as the complement of Q, and QP in turn constitutes a goal for C’s probing. The
relevant derivation is schematized as follows:
	 (47)	 Cable’s (2007, 2010) Q-based analysis:
		
C[uWH]
... QP
Q[WH] PP
P
at
DP
D[WH]
which
NP
station
88	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
If we further assume that Q can also constitute a phase, then wh-movement also
complies with the ESC: just like other phases, the complement of Q gets Transferred
as soon as the Q-phase is constructed, reducing the phasal SO to a simplex LI Q.
Later, C probes and attracts Q to its edge position. The relevant derivation is sum-
marized as follows:
	 (48)	 a.	 Transfer at the completion of the Q-phase:
			
Q
at which station
Transfer Q
		 b.	 Recursive Merge builds the C-phase, applying IM:
			
C
...Q...
Merge Q
C
...tQ
...
Thus,theQ-phaseprovidesuswithasuitableanalysisofwh-movementinconformity
with the ESC, and in doing so it eliminates the notion of WH-feature-percolation.
In fact, we may draw an even stronger conclusion than Cable’s: while Cable
provides a significant step toward elimination of wh-pied-piping, he did refrain
from claiming that his Q-analysis can offer a step toward the elimination of the
notion of XP-movement altogether. Thus, Cable notes:
Note that, following the definition in (7) [which says: “Pied-piping occurs when an
operation that targets the features of a lexical item L applies to a phrase properly
containing LMAX,” p. 6; HN], I do not include under the rubric of “pied-piping” all
instances of phrasal movement. That is, I accept as uncontroversial the existence
of a mechanism of feature projection, which places the features of a head onto the
projections of that head. What is at issue is any mechanism that places the features
of a head onto nodes outside the projections of that head. This is a significant
distinction, because feature projection is arguably indispensable, while the latter
sort of devices are of little utility outside of deriving pied-piping structures.
 (Cable 2010: Chapter 1, note 21, p. 211)
Indeed, Cable’s system still makes heavy use of projection to achieve XP-movement.
Then, taking advantage of Q, I claim that the ESC and phase cyclicity naturally
eliminate the notion of XP-movement altogether, in line with, but taking a more
radical step than, Cable (2010).
In the reminder of this subsection, I would like to further hint at the possibil-
ity that the relevant phase head Q is in fact identical to K(ase) introduced in the
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 89
previous discussion. As summarized in (43), I propose that this category consists
of [uCase], [uQ] and [uφ], and the values of the latter two features are typically
determined by Agree with D and N. I specifically propose that one of the values
that [uQ] should be assigned via Agree is [±WH], to be valued by the matching
wh-element such as what, who, which, etc. Thus, the aforementioned QP struc-
ture (47)/(48a) can in fact be represented as (49) (assuming that P has [uφ] to be
checked against D/N, as well as the ability to assign Oblique Case):
	(49)	a.	
K
[uCase,uQ,uφ]
atP
[uφ,Oblique] whichD
[+WH,vφ]
stationN
[vφ]
Agree
		b.	
K
[Oblique,+WH, vφ]
atP
[vφ ,Oblique] whichD
[+WH,vφ]
stationN
[vφ]
Transfer
		c.	
			 K
			 [Oblique,+WH,vφ]
K’s multiple probes simultaneously look into K’s complement and successfully
match with the valued counterparts via Agree. In particular, [+WH] of the D
which is copied onto K, which can constitute the goal for C’s probing of [+WH],
applying at the later C-phase.
Notice also that K’s [uCase] can also find its valued counterpart within its
complement, namely the [Oblique] Case-value of P. I assume with Bošković (2007)
that there should be no stipulation that precludes a Case-feature from acting as a
probe for Agree. It hence follows that K’s [uCase] can also probe into the K-phase
interior and get valued via Agree with P in (49b).
It is of course possible that K undergoes the usual external merger with {D[+WH],
NP}, just like cases with ordinal [–WH] nominals, in which case it defines the usual
K-phase and executes cyclic Transfer, provided that its complement is convergent.
If further combined with P as in (50d), P independently defines its own phase and
assigns Oblique Case to K[+WH] as in (50e). IM may displace K[+WH] to the edge of
90	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
P for further successive cyclic movement, which leads to a P-stranding configura-
tion, as in which station did John stay at t?.9
	(50)	a.	
K
[uCase,uQ,uφ]
whichD
[+WH,vφ]
stationN
[vφ]
		b.	
K
[uCase, +WH , vφ ]
whichD
[+WH,vφ]
stationN
[vφ]
Transfer
		c.	
			 K									
			 [uCase,+WH,vφ]								
Merge
		
d.	
P
[uφ,Oblique]
K
[uCase,+WH,vφ]
Agree, IM
		e.	
K
[Oblique ,+WH,vφ]
P
[vφ ,Oblique]
K
[Oblique,+WH,vφ]
Transfer
		f.	
K
[Oblique,+WH,vφ]
P
[vφ,Oblique]
If, instead, IM in (50e) does not apply, the derivation unproblematically results in
wh-in-situ, as in who stayed at which station last night?.
9.	 See van Riemsdijk (1978), den Besten & Webelhuth (1990), Abels (2001), and Truswell
(2008) for various approaches to P-stranding.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 91
In this manner, our Q = K hypothesis can readily incorporate Cable’s basic
insights, while limiting the list of ad hoc functional categories to a bare minimum.
Further, I would like to note that the alternative assumption that Q ≠ K im-
mediately runs afoul of our convergence-based definition of phasehood explicated
in § 2.5.2. Suppose Q (≠ K) is merged with K(P) such as (50a) or (50c):
	(51)	a.	
Q
K
[uCase,...]
…
		 b.	
Q K
[uCase,...]
Q cannot define its own phase in such configurations, due to the remaining un-
checked [uCase] on its complement K(P). Thus, the ESC and the convergence-
based definition of phase predict that Q, when attached to KP, can never induce
wh-XP-movement, an undesirable result that must be avoided. The problem seems
to be rooted in the merger of two phase-head LIs, K and Q, and so one way to avoid
the problem is simply to adopt the hypothesis that Q = K.
Therefore, our reduction of Q to K not only serves to reduce the list of func-
tional categories in our ESC-based analysis, but it is also motivated as a way to
keep to the convergence-based definition of phasehood.
3.4.2.4	 Eliminating the EPP-feature
What this discussion tells us is that as long as NS can utilize cyclic Transfer to
keep the moving element a bare LI, NS can still apply IM in conformity with
the ESC, without departing from the hypothesis that bare phrase structure is
projection-free. Importantly, no operation of “pied-piping” or “XP-movement”
needs to be involved in the analysis: what happens in apparent phrasal movement
is actually IM of a phase-head LI, with which previously Transferred interior
materials are tightly associated. Under the assumption that only LIs can undergo
IM (38), we are forced to assume this line of approach to apparent phrasal move-
ment in general.
Note that the proposed analysis departs from the traditional assumption that
IM should be triggered by a viral “EPP-feature” (or “edge-feature,” in Chomsky’s
2007a, 2008 more general terms) of the attracting head. It has been widely assumed
in the literature that IM is a “costly” operation and should be employed only when
its application is necessary to check an “EPP-feature” (the last resort conception
of movement; Chomsky 1986b, 1995b). However, Chomsky (2004, 2007a, 2008)
argues that this was a misguided conception of IM. Rather, without any further
stipulation, every LI can in principle be subject to IM, and there is no need to
stipulate mechanisms of extraneous “EPP-feature-checking.” See also § 5.2.2 for
further discussion on the notion of edge-feature.
92	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
In summary, apparent cases of XP-YP merger, internal or external, can still be
made compliant with the ESC, as long as either one of the two XPs can constitute
its own phase of the form {H, α}, with H a phase head. Such a phase can be reduced
to H by means of cyclic Transfer, hence it can be merged with another XP without
violating the ESC.10
3.4.2.5	 Approximating the duality of semantics
One consequence of the proposed analysis is that the SO created by IM is always
headed by the moved element. Thus, if IM moves Y to the edge of X, it results in
an SO of the form:
	 (52)	 a.	 {Y, {X, [ . . . tY . . . ]}}.
		b.	
Y
X
...tY
...
MHD will unambiguously identify Y as the head of the structure. To take a more
concrete example, it is the wh-moved Q, not C, that will be the head of {Q, {C,
[ … tQ … ]}}, and it is the EPP-raised subject K, not T, that will be the head of
{K, {T, [ … tK … ]}}, and so on.
Although this rather dramatically departs from the traditional labeled phrase
structure, no theory-internal considerations speak against this conclusion. Recall
that the notion of head as determined by MHD reduces to just a hierarchically
prominent LI that primarily configures CI-interpretation of the SO in question,
by the medium of its interpretable features (the OCT, (22)). Recall further from
Chapter 2 that not only the phase-interior itself but also the information regarding
copy-formation by IM is subjected to Interpret, via derivational simultaneity of
IM with Transfer (see § 2.4 and § 2.7). Then, it is reasonable to suppose that each
H within {H, α} may contribute to one of two different kinds of instructions to CI,
depending on whether it is introduced by EM or IM. If the head LI H is introduced
into {H, α} by EM, it will primarily configure the “deep structure interpretation” of
{H, α}, including s-selection, argument structure, predication, and so on. On the
other hand, if H is introduced by IM, it may make sense to regard it as constituting
10.	 It is perhaps worth noting that the elimination of “XP-movement” has further advantages for
the theory of copy-identification. If IM can create copies of a phrasal SO Σ that consists of n terms,
it is necessary for the relevant mechanism to calculate the copy-identity of all the n terms of Σ
at every instance of such IM, a potentially worrisome complication of the system in light of MC.
This problem can be entirely resolved once the ESC dispenses with “XP-movement” altogether.
Therefore, there are no “phrasal copies,” an important consequence of projection-free syntax.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 93
the locus of “surface structure interpretation” that determines, e.g., the scope of
relevant operator-variable linkages, among other things.
Along this line of reasoning, then, let us provide the two general descriptions
of the instructions that MHD provides for Interpret. As for the “head-complement”
structure formed by IM, I would like to propose the following:
	(53)	Interpret IM:
		{H, α} formed by IM of H contributes to an operator-variable formation where
the logical operator Op, characterized by the semantic features of H, scopes over
α, and the copy of H within α is interpreted as a logical variable bound by Op.
In a schematic structure in (54) where H, the sister of another SO β, moves to the
periphery of α, Interpret maps the structure to SEM in such a way that the lower
copy of H is interpreted as a variable bound by the higher copy of H (cf. Sauerland
1998), and the semantic features of H determine the semantics of the logical opera-
tor Op it is mapped to. Op may range over various quantifiers and scopal operators,
including the universal quantifier “∀” and the existential quantifier “∃.”
	(54)	a.
H α
… … … …
β tH
Interpret
b.
Op x α
β x
For example, if Op is a universal quantifier “∀x:” (like every boy) and β a V, say
come, then the interpretation corresponding to (54b) would be something like
“∀x: … come(x) …” If Op is an interrogative operator of the sort determined by
Q/K, then the interpretation corresponding to (54b) would be something like
“For which x: … come(x) … ?”, and so on. It may be that H contains no semantic
features that contribute to any specific quantificational interpretation, as is often
the case with the A-movement of normal non-quantificational KPs like the boy
or John, in which case the relevant interpretation may be simply something like:
“As for H (or speaking of H): . . . come(H) . . . ,” corresponding to topic or focus
interpretation for H (see also Barwise & Cooper 1981 et seq. for the idea that all
nominal expressions, including definite expresssions and proper names, are some
sort of generalized quantifier).11
11.	 The notion of “categorical judgment” proposed by Kuroda (1965, 1971, 1972, 1976, 1992,
2005) may turn out to be highly relevant in the unification of these various aspects of “surface
structure interpretation.” Kuroda’s theory of judgments is explored in different ways by Raposo
& Uriagereka (1995) and Uriagereka (1997, 2008) among others.
94	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Readers may wonder how the K-head alone can provide various quantifica-
tional operators like, ∃x, etc. at the position of H in (54). For this matter, recall
again our hypothesis (43) that K is associated with a set of unvalued quantifica-
tional features [uQ]. As shown in the K-phase derivation in (44), the values of
K’s [uQ] are determined by D’s [vQ] ([±Definite], [±WH], etc.) via Agree at the
K-phase level computation. If K further moves as in (54) at the next phase level,
then it can immediately present its [vQ] copied from D, which, I assume, should
be sufficient in characterizing Op in (54b). In this manner, the KP-analysis of
nominals proposed in this book is also motivated as a way to support a minimal
formulation of the Interpret IM rule in (53). The same consideration can be readily
extended to A′-movement of QP/KP discussed in § 3.4.2.3.
Incidentally, the hypothesis presented here partially reconstructs the insights
behind Hornstein & Uriagereka (1999, 2002) and Narita (2008). They explore the
idea that a quantifier phrase (QuantifierP) like every boy, all the money, etc., “proj-
ects” at the Quantifier-Raised position and lets Quantifier label the SO, taking the
nuclear scope as its semantic argument. The idea that SOs created by IM are uni-
formly headed by the moved LI has close affinity with these earlier approaches. We
can therefore maintain that the proposal explicated here readily integrates Cable’s
QP as well as QuantifierP of the Hornstein-Uriagereka sort into the unified cate-
gory K(ase) with [uQ] (see Hornstein & Uriagereka 1999, 2002, Nissenbaum 2000,
Narita 2008, Marušič 2009 for various approaches to the covertness of Quantifier-
Raising; see also Fox & Nissenbaum 1999).12
In the case of EM, no copy-formation is involved, and hence the H-α structure
signifies the genuine mode of endocentric interpretation. I propose the following
as a general description of the effect of EM-based endocentricity (cf. Hornstein
& Pietroski 2009):
	(55)	Interpret EM:
		 If {H, α} is formed by EM, the core semantic properties of {H, α} are determined
prominently by the semantic features of the head H, and α is interpreted rela-
tive to H.
One of the semantic effects that (55) is meant to capture is θ-role assignment by
a predicative category H to its sister α. For example, the semantic properties of
{V, KP} are largely determined by the intrinsic features of V, and KP is interpreted
12.	 Readers are also referred to Chomsky (2013), who maintains that the subject-predicate
structure (TP = {KP, T′}) is headed by ϕ-features of the moved KP, shared by T via Agree. See
also Narita & Fukui (2012).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 95
relative to V, here constituting an integral “thematic part” of this verbal SEM-
object.13 I extend the observation to the following generalization about θ-role as-
signment (cf. Narita 2009a, Epstein 2009), repeated from (32):
	(56)	θ-role assignment by H to α is achieved in the structure {H, α} created by EM.
Presumably, (56) is just one particular aspect of (55). The assignment of external
θ-roles conforms to this picture, too, if we assume that the relevant θ-role is as-
signed by v* to the external argument EA in the configuration {EA, v*}, as in (31c)/
(34d) (see Narita 2009a, Epstein 2009).
In this manner, once Interpret is allowed to exploit the bifurcation of EM and
IM for the mapping to SEM, we can provide a natural characterization of the two
modes of Merge and their interpretive consequences (the pervasive duality of se-
mantics at CI). I maintain that (53) and (55) arise simply as a result of Interpret’s
full exploitation of the bifurcation of IM and EM, which comes for free in the
framework of bare phrase structure. The efficient contribution of Merge-based
syntax to CI is further corroborated, a desirable result.
3.5	 The ESC and the typology of movement
We established in the previous section that only LIs can undergo IM in conformity
with the ESC. In this section, we will see how this hypothesis can be adopted to
derive a rather straightforward typology of possible movement operations.
3.5.1	 Deriving the complementarity of phrasal vs. head-movement
We saw that the ESC forces us to assume that each instance of phrasal movement
must be reanalyzed as internal merger of a phase head. Importantly, the option of
undergoing XP-movement should be a privilege only of phase-head LIs, as long as
we adopt the natural assumption that cyclic Transfer is the only device to “anchor”
the interior of a phase to its sister LI (the phase head). Then, the prediction is that
only phase-head LIs can induce apparent XP-movement. A number of empirical
consequences can be drawn from this hypothesis, as we will see below.
13.	 Tenny (1987, 1994) expresses an important intuition that the Theme argument “measures
out” or delimits the event denoted by the verbal phrase. This idea is further explored in Mori
(2005) and Uriagereka (2008).
96	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
We have seen that phase-head LIs (C, v, K, P, …) can Transfer their comple-
ments thanks to the convergent ([uF]-free) status, whereas non-phase head LIs
(T, V, N, …) cannot (see (33)). Then, the prediction is that phrasal movement of
CP, vP, KP, PP, … is possible, whereas TP, VP, NP, … cannot XP-move. Moreover,
the long noticed observation that TP strongly resists movement can be regarded
as a straightforward consequence of this approach. For example, a finite embed-
ded clause headed by a complementizer that cannot be topicalized with stranding
of that.
	 (57)	 a.	 I believe [that [John is a genius]].
		 b.	 [that [John is a genius]]i, I believe ti.
		 c.	 *[John is a genius]i, I believe [that ti].
The same holds for control infinitivals headed by for. Thus, TP-topicalization
stranding for is impossible.
	 (58)	 a.	 I prefer [for [John to take care of his mother]].
		 b.	 [for [John to take care of his mother]]i, I prefer ti.
		 c.	 *[John to take care of his mother]i, I prefer [for ti].
Moreover, control infinitivals can undergo A′-movement, while raising TP infini-
tivals cannot.
	 (59)	 (Chomsky 2001: fn. 13, an observation attributed to Luigi Rizzi)
		 a.	 It is [CP C PRO to go home (every evening)] that John prefers.
		 b.	 *It is [TP tj to go home (every evening)] that Johnj seems.
	 (60)	 a. 	 What John prefers ei is [CP C PRO to go home (every evening)]i.
		 b.	 *What Johnj seems ei is [TP tj to go home (every evening)]i.
	 (61)	 (Kayne 2009: (81)–(84))
		 a.	 He claims [C PRO to be a genius].
		b.	Hei is claimed [ti to be a genius].
		c.	
??the kind of genius [[C PRO to be which]i he has never claimed ti]
		 d.	 *the kind of genius [[ti to be which]i he has never been claimed ti]
These results are readily derived from our hypothesis concerning phases. First of
all, the ESC predicts that only phase head LIs can induce XP-movement (remerge).
Phase heads can act as if they “pied-pipe” their phase-interior domains because
they anchor their separately Transferred complements.
Further, the same account can be extended to data like the following, if we
assume Chomsky’s (2007a, 2008) analysis of ECM adapted from the earlier work
by Postal (1974) and Lasnik & Saito (1991). In this approach, the ECM infinitival
is analyzed as TP without C and its subject raises to the VP-Spec position. TP and
VP are both non-phases, and thus they resist phrasal movement.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 97
	 (62)	 a.	 I believe John to have criticized Mary.
		 b.	*[VP John [TP to have criticized Mary]]i, I believe ti.
		 c.	*[TP to have criticized Mary]i, I believe John ti.
		 d.	 *It is [VP John to have criticized Mary]i that I believe ei.
		 e.	 *It is [TP to have criticized Mary]i that I believe [VP John ei].
		 f.	 *What I believe ei is [VP John to have criticized Mary]i.
		 g.	 *What I believe John ei is [TP to have criticized Mary]i.
Again, these results are readily derived from the ESC in combination with the stan-
dard assumption that C and v but not T and V are phase heads.14 Notice that as long
as Merge is unconstrained, it should be able to freely move LIs, regardless of whether
they are phase-heads or a non-phase-heads. CP-, KP-, and QP-movement are all
reanalyzed as movement of phase-head LIs. In contrast, it is predicted that non-
phase-head LIs cannot “pied-pipe” any phrasal nodes, simply because they do not
have the ability to subject their sisters to Transfer. Then, the current analysis predicts
thatsuchLIscannotinduceXP-movement,andthattheysimplymovebythemselves.
14.	 Incidentally, Abels (2001) offers an alternative account of the general absence of VP- and
TP-movement. Adopting labeled phrase structure, Abels proposes an economy principle that
precludes movement that is “too local,” applying within projection of a single head (what he calls
the “anti-locality” constraint). This constraint effectively excludes any form of “complement-to-
spec” movement, i.e., movement of a head H’s complement to Spec-H as in (i).
	(i)	
	 ∗ HP
XP H′
H tXP
This constraint can be utilized to derive the impossibility of TP- and VP-movement. Given that
TP and VP are complements of phase heads (C and v, respectively), and that IM must apply phase
by phase, TP and VP must first land in the edge of C and v, respectively, for further cross-phasal
movement. However, such movement must take the form of complement-to-spec movement,
and thus it is excluded by anti-locality, accounting for the general lack of TP- and VP-movement.
	 Abels’s anti-locality-based account faces a number of empirical problems. First and fore-
most, the principle of anti-locality is characterized in terms of projection, but reference to labels
(nonterminal symbols) is excluded from bare phrase structure/projection-free syntax. Moreover,
the ban on complement-to-spec movement is too weak in that it cannot exclude movement of
ECM TP-clauses, as shown in, e.g., (62c). TP in such cases is the complement of another non-
phase-head V, hence its movement to Spec-v cannot be excluded by anti-locality. Furthermore,
exclusion of all complement-to-spec movement may also be too strong, so long as Chomsky’s
(2007a, 2008) hypothesis that object KP uniformly undergoes complement-to-spec movement
to Spec-V as a result of φ-feature-agreement and Accusative Case-marking (see also Narita &
Fukui 2012 for further exploration).
	 The ESC-based account is free from these problems, thus these considerations lend impor-
tant support to projection-free syntax.
98	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
I argue that so-called “head-movement”/“X0-movement” instantiates this situ-
ation. Among others, T-to-C raising and V-to-v incorporation constitute canonical
instances of head-movement, and they clearly involve prototypical non-phase-
head LIs, T and V.
	(63)	willTi -C	John	 ti 	 buyVj-v	tj 	 a book this morning?
			 	
See § 2.8 for a NTC-compatible theory of head-movement. Importantly, the catego-
ries typical of head-movement, T and V, are incapable of inducing XP-movement,
as we saw above. Thus, there are ample cases of T0- and V0-movement, but no
TP- and VP-movement are observed.
More generally, the ESC predicts that head-movement is available only for
non-phase-heads. Phase-head LIs cyclically execute Transfer and anchor their inte-
rior SOs, so movement of those LIs necessarily results in XP-movement at PHON.
Then, this distinction yields the general complementarity of XP- and X0-movement
in natural languages.
	(64)	Complementarity of XP- and X0-movement:
		 a.	 Only phases can undergo “XP”-movement (viz. movement of a phase
head that has subjected its interior to Transfer)
		 b.	 Non-phase-head LIs can only undergo movement by themselves (i.e.,
X0-movement).
We saw above that instances of CP- and KP-movement conform to (64a). In addi-
tion, the general absence of C0- and K0-movement lends further support to (64b).
Examples of overt K in (66) are from Japanese.
	 (65)	 a.	 *I [C if/that/whether…]-know (for sure) [tC Mary was at that party
yesterday]
		 b.	 *I [C for]-prefer [tC John to take care of his mother].
	(66)	Japanese:
		 a.	 John ga	[KP 	 Mary oK] (boo de)	 tataita.
			 John nom	Mary acc rod with hit
			 ‘John hit Mary with a rod.’
		b.	[KP Mary oK] 	 John ga	 tKP (boo de)	 tataita.
				 Mary acc John nom		 rod with hit
			 ‘Mary, John hit t with a rod.’
		 c.	 *John ga	 [Mary tK] (boo de)	 [K o]-tataita.
				John nom	 Mary	 rod with		 acc -hit
		 d.	*[K o]	 John ga	 [Mary tK] (boo de)	 tataita.
					 acc 	John nom	 Mary	 rod with hit
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 99
Further, we can see, cross-linguistically, clear complementary distribution of XP-
movement vs. X0-movement in the domain of nominals and adpositional phrases
as well:
	 (67)	 a.	 [The/a/every/John’s/… book on Wittgenstein]i , I read ti.
		 b.	*[Book]i, I read [the/a/every/John’s/… ti on Wittgenstein].
		 c.	*[the/a/every/(John)’s/…]i, I read [ti book on Wittgenstein].
	(68)	a.	 [PP At/in/behind/… the station], John kissed Mary tPP.
		 b.	 *John [P at/in/behind/…]-arrived [tP the station].
	(69)	Japanese:
		 a.	 John ga		 [PP boo deP] Mary o	 tataita.
			 John nom	 rod with Mary acc hit
			 ‘John hit Mary with a rod.’
		b.	[PP boo deP] John ga	 tPP Mary o	 tataita.
				 rod with John nom	Mary acc hit
			 ‘With a rod, John hit Mary.’
		 c.	 *John ga	 [PP boo tP] Mary o	 [P de]-tataita.
			 John nom	rod	 Mary acc		 with -hit
		 d.	*[P de]	 John ga	 [PP boo tP] Mary o	 tataita.
					 with 	John nom	rod	 Mary acc hit
These data can be summarized as (70), each of which readily conforms to the pre-
dictions in (64).
	(70)	a.	
okCP-movement vs. *C0-movement
		 b.	 *TP-movement vs. ok.T0-movement
		 c.	 *VP-movement vs. ok.V0-movement
		d.	
okKP-movement vs. *K0-movement
		e.	
okPP-movement vs. *P0-movement
These patterns all lend strong support to the ESC, which is simply deducible from
the interplay of MHD and FI, a desirable result in terms of our pursuit of MC-
based syntax.15
15.	 Further, a potentially interesting case is when a phase-head LI that happens to have no
interior, which is expected to exhibit mixed properties of “XP”- and head-movement. We may
speculate that pronominal clitics in the Romance languages (among others) may instantiate
this situation. Thus, if we analyze the clitic as a simplex LI that subsumes both D-like and
K-like features, say [uCase] and a full-fledged [vφ], it should be able to “XP”-move just like
other phase-heads, and also head-move like other non-phase-heads as desired (see Chomsky
1995b: 337ff).
100	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Note that the discussion so far leaves a major category, v, untouched. We will
see shortly that the behavior of v provides further evidence in favor of (64).
Moreover, it is also necessary to mention cases where XP-movement affects
interrogative clauses, such as those in (71).
	 (71)	 a.	 [what caused the incident]i has been debated ti.
		 b.	 [who was at the scene of the crime]i has been debated ti.
		 c.	 [why the incident happened]i has been debated ti.
These cases of XP-movement apparently affect not only CP but also “Spec-C” filled
by a wh-phrase. Such movement should be prohibited by the ESC, since it restricts
the class of movable XPs to those of the form {H, α}, H being a phase head. How
can we accommodate these cases under the ESC-based predictions in (64)?
There can be several approaches to this problem. First, we may assume that
CP-structures involve more than one functional category, as suggested by Rizzi
(1997, 2006) among others: thus, it may be that the wh-phrase lands in the Spec
of C1 (say Focus), while the phase head that induces XP-movement of the clause
is C2 that is above C1 (say Force).
	 (72)	 Option 1: Layered CP
		a.	
C2
wh
C1
…t…
Transfer
		b.	
			 C2	
C2
wh
C1
…t…
Transfer
			 IM
		c.	
…t…
C2
Such a “cartographic” expansion of CP-layers bears a burden of justification, which
is not easy to meet (see § 4.3.3). Be that as it may, this approach is worth pursuing,
to the extent that it can readily incorporate Rizzi’s (1997, 2006) various arguments
for the detailed structure of the left periphery.
As a variant of two-layered structure, I would like to also hint at the possibility
that the C2 in (72) may be in fact K. In this approach, the structure is alternatively
represented as (73):
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 101
	 (73)	 Option 2: KP above CP
		a.	
K
wh
C Transfer
…t…
		b.	
			 K	
C2
wh
C1
…t…
Transfer
			 IM
		c.	
K
…t…
The K effectively heads the embedded clause (including Spec-C), and the K-phase-
level Transfer reduces it to an LI, which can move in conformity with the ESC. This
second approach does not stipulate a new functional category, so it may count as su-
perior to the first approach in this respect. Moreover, this approach accommodates
the important observation by Alrenga (2005) and Takahashi (2010) that a clausal
complement may undergo XP-movement only from a Case-marked position (see
also Williams 1981, Grimshaw 1982, Webelhuth 1992). Takahashi calls this obser-
vation the “Moved Clausal Complement Generalization” (slightly rephrased here):
	(74)	Moved Clausal Complement Generalization:
		 A clausal complement is allowed to move only if its base-generated position
is one in which a KP is allowed to appear.
The effect of (74) can be observed, e.g., in (75). (75) shows that a class of predicates
that are unable to have a nominal complement do not allow for a sentential subject
in passives (Alrenga 2005: 183; Takahashi 2010: 345–346).
	 (75)	 a.	 Most baseball fans {hoped/felt/wished/insisted/reasoned} [that the Giants
would win the World Series].
		 b.	 *Most baseball fans {hoped/felt/wished/insisted/reasoned} that.
		 c.	 *[That the Giants would win the World Series]i was {hoped/felt/wished/
insisted/reasoned} ti (by most baseball fans).
		 cf.	 It was {hoped/felt/wished/insisted/reasoned} (by most baseball fans) that
the Giants would win the World Series.
If we adopt Option 2 and assume that a clausal complement always involves a KP-
layer above CP (or at least when it undergoes IM), then it naturally follows that
102	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
it can only move from a Case-marked position, and also that the movement can
phonologically pied-pipe Spec-C. This approach hence reduces cases of apparent
CP-movement to ones involving IM of K, in conformity with the ESC.
The third option takes an approach that is even more parsimonious in terms of
the number of functional categories involved. Recall our analysis that wh-movement
reduces to an instance of IM of K with [+WH], attracted by C via Agree and IM
(§ 3.4.2.3; cf. Cable’s 2007, 2010 Q-based approach). Recall also that we adopted the
convergence-based definition of phasehood, according to which the interior of a
phase Σ is the largest possible convergent term Σ′ (or set of such terms Σ′1 . . . Σ′n)
of Σ (§ 2.5.2). In cases where C hosts no specifier (as in (57)–(61)), C is the highest
element within the phase that should be left for further computation, and Transfer
subjects the next largest term TP to Interpret/Spell-Out. However, if a wh-element
K[+WH] is internally merged to Spec-C, then the K[+WH] becomes the highest element
within the C-phase {K[+WH], {C, TP}}. Then, provided that C has no remaining [uF],
{C, TP} can actually stand as the largest convergent term (i.e., interior) of the phase,
hence it may be subjected to deletion/interpretation upon Transfer. Such application
of Transfer reduces the phase {K[+WH], {C, TP}} to an LI K[+WH].
	 (76)	 Option 3: C-phase headed by the moved K[+WH] after Transfer
		a.	
K[+WH]
C
... t ... Transfer
		b.	
			 K[+WH]	
K[+WH]
C
... t ... Transfer
						
IM
		c.	
K[+WH]
... t ...
Provided that C has no remaining uninterpretable feature, there is indeed nothing
wrong with this derivation.16
16.	 The proposed structure in (76) is similar to the one that Donati (2006) proposes for wh-
free-relative constructions, in that it is headed by the moved wh. However, the proposal departs
from her claim that only a simplex wh LI like what can yield such a structure headed by the
moved wh, and that this structure can only behave as a nominal argument. See also Ott (2011b)
for an alternative approach, which proposes basically the same structure as the one in (76) for
wh-free-relatives in general.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 103
Readers may wonder if the structure in (76) would fail to satisfy the selectional
requirement from above, e.g., by a verb of complementation like wonder, ask,
etc. However, we may refer to various arguments for the view that c(ategorial)-
selection and subcategorization are in most part reducible to s(emantic)-selection,
and that s-selection plays virtually no role in NS (see Pesetsky 1982, Chomsky
2004: 112–113). Moreover, even if we assume that selection plays some role in
clause complementation, the advocate of Option 3 can contend that K’s [+WH]
feature, which is in agreement with the Transferred C, is sufficient to satisfy the
relevant selection. Therefore, such considerations do not pose any serious prob-
lem for this approach.
However, in order to work out Option 3, it is necessary to restrict the applica-
bility of such a derivation to interrogative [+WH] CPs. That is, we do not want to
let Transfer eliminate C at an intermediate step of successive cyclic wh-movement,
i.e., at the Spec of [–WH] C. If this happens, then the moving wh-element should
“pied-pipe” the entire [–WH] CP at PHON as shown in (77b), just like [+WH]
CP in (71) (see § 4.4 for the proposed mechanism of PHON-linearization). This is
clearly an undesirable result, and we have to rule out such a derivation.
	(77)	a.	 Whati do you think ti [that John bought ti]?
		 b.	*[Whati [that John bought ti]]j do you think tj?
That is to say, we have to restrict the interior domain of C-level Transfer not to
include C with [–WH], letting the K[+WH] freely leave the phase for further suc-
cessive cyclic movement.
	(78)	a.	
K[+WH]
C[−WH]
... t ...
Transfer
		b.	
K[+WH]
C[−WH]
IM
		c.	
K[+WH]
V
t C[−WH]
To achieve this goal, we may assume that the verb of complementation for such
an [–WH] CP, say think, prove, etc., requires the presence of C specified as [–WH],
104	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
say for the purpose of selection of, or θ-role assignment to, the CP. Note that after
the application of Transfer in (78a), C[−WH] becomes as prominent as K[+WH] in
hierarchical terms, so V can discharge its θ-role (Content, as proposed in Pietroski
2000, Motomura 2003, etc.) to C[−WH] in conformity with (56).
For want of further evidence, I leave for the future the choice between these
three approaches for the account of CP[+WH]-movement. However, we can at least
conclude that there are several ways to keep our simple generalization in (64)
intact, which supports the minimal theory of endocentricity advocated in this
chapter.
3.5.2	 On the phasehood of vP
Before leaving the typology of movement operations, a brief remark on the phase/
non-phase status of vP is in order. The existence of vP-movement is attested in
English and many other languages.
	(79)	[vP criticize Mary]i John did ti (yesterday).
The theory of XP-movement presented here attributes vP-fronting to the rather
standard assumption that v is a phase head (Chomsky 2000a et seq.). Then, it is
expected that this category can induce only XP-movement but not X0-movement,
as long as the theory is on the right track. However, it is known that languages
differ in whether (and in which environment) v is to undergo X0-movement. For
example, the word-order difference between French and English as in (80)–(81)
is often attributed to parametric variation: only v 0 in French (not English) raises
to T, skipping adverbs at the vP-edge (Pollock 1989 among others).
	 (80)	 a.	 Jean (n’) [T0 aime] pas tv0 Marie.
		 b.	 *Jean [
T
0 likes] not tv0 Marie.
	 (81)	 a.	 Jean (*souvent) [T
0 embrasse] (souvent) tv0 Marie.
		 b.	 Jean T0 (often) [v0 kisses] (*often) Marie.
If I am right in assuming that XP-movement and X0-movement of a category H is
complementary and that the existence of H0-movement signals the non-phasehood
of HP, then it follows that vP cannot be a phase in French and other languages
exhibiting v 0-movement.
Recall from § 2.5.2 that any phrase can be a phase as long as its complement is
convergent, i.e., free from unvalued features. Then, the non-phase vP is necessar-
ily characterized as involving a non-convergent interior (VP). For concreteness,
I assume that V in the relevant languages has an unvalued Tense-feature [uT] to
be checked against T via Agree (cf. Pesetsky & Torrego 2007), and it is this feature
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 105
that makes VP non-convergent and thus vP a non-phase (see also Lasnik 1999,
2003 for a different approach).
Now, combining the ESC and the PIC yields the following prediction:
	 (82)	 If X0-movement applies (or is applicable) to v 0 in a derivation D, then vP does
not constitute a phase and it is immune to the PIC effect in D.
I argue that two sets of data provide evidence for (82). The first set of data has to
do with Takano’s (2000) observation regarding illicit vP-fronting. Takano observes
that even in languages where vP-fronting is available, movement of vP becomes
impossible if v0 has moved out of vP. For illustration, the following data from
German show that vP-topicalization is possible in German only when verb-second
is achieved by auxiliary-fronting and the verb can remain within the moving vP:
	(83)	German: (Haider 1990)
		a.	 [vP dem Peter ti gegeben-v0] hat die Claudia das Buchi tvP
				 the	 Peter	 given	 has the Claudia the book
			 ‘Claudia gave Peter the book.’
		 b.	*[vP Ihr 	ein Buch tv] gabv0 -C Hans tvP .
				 her a	 book	 gave	 Hans
			 ‘Hans gave her a book.’
The prediction in (82) can provide a natural account of this fact: v 0-movement is
only compatible with a non-phase-head v, while vP-fronting is only possible with
a v-phase. Thus, v 0-movement and vP-movement cannot coexist in a single deriva-
tion, accounting for the ill-formedness of (83b).
Moreover, facts about long-distance agreement provide another piece of evi-
dence in favor of (82). (82) predicts that long-distance agreement into vP is possible
in languages with v 0-movement (see Gallego 2010):
	 (84)	 . . .	 T	 . . .	 [vP tv 0	 [ . . . NOM . . . ] ]
			 v0 Agree into the vP-phase possible
I argue that this prediction is corroborated by the so-called “quirky agreement”
phenomenon, where the in-situ nominative object within vP can apparently induce
φ-feature agreement with T. The following is a textbook example of quirky agree-
ment from Icelandic dative subject constructions.
	(85)	Icelandic: (Richards 2004: 156)
		Henni	leiðust	strákarnir/þeir.
		her-dat	bored-3pl	the-boys-nom/they-nom
		 ‘The girl found the boys/them boring.’
106	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Icelandic exhibits verb-second, and v systematically X0-moves all the way up to
C in this language. Thus, the availability of long-distance quirky agreement into
vP conforms to (84). Gallego (2010) also claims that quirky agreement can be
observed in Romance languages exhibiting v 0-movement to T, too, providing ex-
amples like the following (see, e.g., Suñer (1994) for obligatory V-to-T raising in
Spanish).
	(86)	Spanish: (Gallego 2010: 110, (141))
		 a	 Scorsese	le	 gustan	 las	 tramas	mafiosas.
		 to 	Scorsese	 cl-to-him	like-3pl	the	plots	 mafia
		 ‘Scorsese likes plots about the mafia.’
	(87)	European Portuguese: (Raposo & Uriagereka 1996: 750)
		 Ontem	 compraram-se	demasiadas	salchichas.
		 yesterday	bought-3pl-se	too-many	 sausages
		 ‘Too many sausages were bought yesterday.’
Interestingly, it seems that quirky agreement remains unattested in languages like
English that exhibit no systematic v0-movement. These facts readily lend support
to the prediction in (82).17
In summary, a theory of NTC- and ESC-based syntax in which an LI can
undergo either XP-movement or head-movement, but not both, yields the comple-
mentary distribution of ph(r)asal-movement vs. head-movement. We need not
stipulate any independent constraint to the effect that only phases can move, let
alone any extraneous operations like labeling/projection and pied-piping. Thus,
the ESC, a straightforward consequence of MHD and FI (see § 3.4.1), yields an
adequate typology of ph(r)asal/head-movement.
17.	 In order for the external argument (EA) to be θ-marked by v* in these languages, it is anyway
necessary for Transfer to strip off the VP-complement of v* and let v* take the EA as its “second
complement” (recall (56)):
	 (i)	 {T, {EA, {v*, VP}}} {T, {EA, v*}}
As represented in (i), I take the relevant Transfer operation to apply only after T is introduced
into the derivation and checks V’s [uT]. Verb-raising to T successfully applies at this phase level,
conforming to our prediction in (82).
	 Incidentally, Gallego (2007, 2010) provides some interesting arguments that v*-to-T rais-
ing in Romance languages has the effect of “postponing” the v*-level Transfer until EM of T, a
phenomenon that Gallego calls phase-sliding. Although a detailed comparison between Gallego’s
phase system and mine is beyond the scope of this book, it may turn out that a certain set of the
data attributed by Gallego to phase-sliding constitute further evidence in favor of the analysis
presented here. See also Richards (2004) for the hypothesis that the v*-phase may sometimes
contain T as its edge.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 107
3.6	 The ESC and the Condition on Extraction Domain (CED)
We saw in § 3.5 that the ESC derives a straightforward typology of ph(r)asal- vs.
head-movement. Exploring further the empirical strength of the ESC, this sec-
tion will argue that it not only determines what can move, but it also imposes an
overarching constraint on where elements can move from. It will be shown that
a number of empirically motivated island constraints, traditionally attributed to
Huang’s (1982) Condition on Extraction Domain (CED), can also be derived from
the ESC.
3.6.1	 Freezing effects
As we have seen above, the ESC predicts that only LIs can undergo IM.
	(88)	 α
... H ...
IM H α
... H ...
Under the ESC, all the cases of apparent “XP”-movement must be analyzed as IM
of a phase-head LI that has subjected its interior to Transfer.
Now, given the PIC (41), it is predicted that all moved ph(r)ases exhibit the
freezing effect (Wexler & Culicover 1980, Uriagereka 1999, and many others):
	(89)	Freezing Effect:
		 A moved SO constitutes an island for extraction.
This is simply because all the moved ph(r)ases must have become “bare LIs” by
means of cyclic Transfer before undergoing IM. Thus, the ESC derives the effect
of (89) for free.
There are a number of facts that support (89). For example, it has been ob-
served by a number of researchers that an in-situ subject is not an island, whereas a
raised subject is (Lasnik & Park 2003, Stepanov 2007, Gallego 2010, Boeckx 2008a,
2008c). (90) from Lasnik & Park (2003) illustrates this observation.
	 (90)	 (Lasnik & Park 2003)
		a.	 Which candidatei were there [posters of ti] all over the town?
		 b.	*Which candidatei were [posters of ti]j tj all over the town?
If we follow Chomsky (1995b, 2000a), Hornstein (2009) and others in assuming
that the merger of an expletive there into the subject position can allow the as-
sociate posters of (which candidate) not to be affected by IM, subextraction from
108	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
this in-situ subject is predicted to be possible, as shown in (90a), which is in sharp
contrast with the case of subextraction from the EPP-raised subject, as in (90b).18
The following examples point to the same conclusion.
	(91)	a.	 Of which candidatei were there [posters ti] all over the town?
		 b.	*Of which candidatei were [posters ti]j tj all over the town?
	(92)	a.	 Whomi were there [posters of ti] all over the town?
		 b.	*Whomi were [posters of ti]j tj all over the town?
	(93)	a.	 Of whomi were there [posters ti] all over the town?
		 b.	*
Of whomi were [posters ti] tj all over the town? A similar observation can
be made for ECM constructions.
	(94)	a.	 Which candidatei did you believe there to be [posters of ti] all over the town?
		 b.	*Which candidatei did you believe [posters of ti]j to be tj all over the town?
Essentially the same explanation is available here, too, if we follow Chomsky
(2007a, 2008) in assuming that the ECMed KP-phase undergoes A-movement
to somewhere above the infinitival T to at the v*-phase level (see already Postal
1974, Lasnik & Saito 1991, Lasnik & Saito 1992 for the raising-to-object analysis of
ECM). Related to this, it has been observed that an in-situ object allows extraction
from within, but an ECM-raised object does not (Takahashi 1994, Bošković 1997,
2002a). Thus the following contrast:
	(95)	a.	 Whoi did you see [pictures of ti]?
		 b.	*Whoi did you believe [pictures of ti]j to be tj the cause of the riot?
This contrast suggests that the accusative KP can stay in situ in a simple transitive
clause, whereas the ECMed accusative KP must move, as suggested by Chomsky
(2000a, 2001), Boeckx (2008b), and others.
In general, then, the islandhood of EPP-raised subjects emerges as a result of
IM, as readily predicted by the freezing effect (89). (To provide a full-fledged ac-
count of freezing effects, I will need to supply another constraint that I will refer
to as *{t, t}, to which we will return in § 3.6.2).
18.	 A question remains as to why the in-situ associate KP-phase in expletive constructions can
allow subextraction without inducing the PIC effect. I contend that the expletive is a D associated
with an unvalued Case-feature [uCase] that is base-generated internal to KP. [uCase] of this D,
if subjected to Transfer without a value, will cause the derivation to crash due to its uninterpret-
ability, which effectively prevents the KP from constituting its own phase, explaining the lack
of the PIC effect. The idea that the expletive is base-generated internal to KP and moves on its
own to the EPP position is adapted from Hornstein (2009: § 6.3.2). See also Hoekstra & Mulder
(1990), den Dikken (1995), Moro (1997b), and Groat (1997, 1999).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 109
(89) also predicts that subject nominals do not exhibit freezing effects if the
language lacks obligatory EPP raising. I argue that this is a desirable prediction
that can be corroborated by data from Japanese. It has been observed that Japanese
does not exhibit subject condition effects in various constructions (see Kuno 1973,
Lasnik & Saito 1992, Ross 1967, Saito & Fukui 1998, Ishii 1997, Narita & Fukui
2012, and references cited therein). The following examples are from clefts, tough-
constructions, and (long distance) scrambling.19
	(96)	Japanese: Lack of subject condition effects in Japanese ((a) and (b) from Ishii
1997: 143, (c) from Saito & Fukui 1998: 463)
		a.	 Cleft
			 [Opi [John-ga	 [[Mary-ga	 ti 	katta	koto]-ga	mondai-da	to]
				 John-nom	Mary-nom	bought nml -nom problem-cpl	that
			 omotteiru no]-wa	 sono honi-o	da.
			 think	 nml-top that	 book-acc cpl
			 (Lit.)‘Itisthatbooki thatJohnthinksthat[thatMarybought ei]isaproblem.’
		b.	Tough-construction
			 [zibun-no	otooto-kara]i-ga	(Johnj-nitotte) [Opi [[proj ti okane-o
			 self-gen	 brother-from -nom John-as.for	 money-acc
			 takusan kariteiru no]-ga	 mondai-da	 to]	 mitome]-nikui.
			 a.lot	 borrow	nml -nom problem-cpl that admit -hard
			 (Lit.) ‘[from self’s brother]i is hard (for Johnj) [Opi to admit that the fact
that hej has borrowed a lot of money ei is a problem].’
		c.	 Scrambling
			 ?nani-oi	 [John-ga	[[Mary-ga	
ti	katta	 koto]-ga	 mondai-da
				what-acc		John-nom		 Mary-nom	bought	nml -nom	problem-is
			 to]	 omotteru]	no?
			 that	think	 Q
			 (Lit.) ‘Whati, John thinks that [the fact that Mary bought ti] is a problem?’
Interestingly, Fukui (1986/1995b), Kuroda (1988), and Kato (2006) among others
independently provide evidence for the view that Japanese subjects can (at least
optionally) stay in-situ. Ishii (1997) among others proposes that these two obser-
vations are interrelated, and specifically that the lack of subject condition effects
can be attributed to the lack of obligatory EPP in this language. The phase-based
account of freezing effects (89) can straightforwardly incorporate Ishii’s analysis.
19.	 See in particular Hoji (1990) for arguments that Japanese cleft constructions with a case-
marked nominal focus or PP focus involve A′-movement of an empty operator. See also Ishii
(1997), Sakai (2000), and Hiraiwa & Ishihara (2002, 2012) among others on different analyses
of A′-movement in Japanese clefts.
110	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Data from Romance post-verbal subject constructions provide additional
evidence in favor of freezing effects (89). The following data are observed by
Uriagereka (1988, 2012) for Spanish.
	(97)	Spanish: transparent postverbal subject (Uriagereka 1988: 116; see also Gallego
2007, 2010)
		 a.	 *[de qué	 conferenciantes]i te	 parece	 [que [las 	propuestas
				 of what	speakers	 cl-to-you seem.3sg that 	the proposals	
			 ti] me 	 van	 a	 impresionar].
				 cl-to-me go-3pl	 to	impress
			 ‘Of which speakers does it seem to you that [the proposals t] will impress
me?’
		b.	
(?)[de qué	 conferenciantes]i	te	 parece	 [que me
					 of	 what speakers	 cl-to-you	seem.3sg	 that 	cl-to-me
			 van	 a	 impresionar	 [las propuestas ti]].
			 go-3pl	 to	 impress	 the proposals
			 ‘Ofwhichspeakersdoesitseemtoyouthatwillimpressme[theproposalst]?’
	(98)	Spanish: transparent postverbal subject (Uriagereka 2012)
		Qué	partidoi te	 hizo	 gritar	 [(el)	 que 	hayas	 perdido ti]
		 What	 game	 you	 made	 scream	 the	that	 have.you	 lost
		 ‘What game has it made you scream that you lost?’
If we assume with Gallego (2010) (who builds on Uriagereka 1988, Belletti 2001,
and others) that the postverbal subject in these examples stays in the base-
generated­ Spec-v position whereas the preverbal subject moves to Spec-T, the
relevant contrast in (97) can be subsumed under the same account in terms of
the freezing effect.
3.6.2	 *{t, t}
In the previous section, we saw that all moved ph(r)ases are predicted to exhibit the
freezing effect, because apparent “XP”-movement reduces to IM of a phase-head
LI that has subjected its interior to Transfer. The relevant derivation is schematized
in (99).
	(99)	 α
H
...
IM H α
... H ...
... ...
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 111
However, the ESC and the PIC alone cannot exclude the following derivation.
	 (100)	 a.	 IM of Q (= K with [+WH], according to the analysis presented in § 3.4.2.3)
to the edge of K/C at the level of the K/C-phase:
			
Q
K/C
... tQ
...
Transfer Q K/C
		 b.	 Construction of the the C-phase by EM:
			
C
T
... ...
Q K/C
		 c.	 IM of K/C and Q applying independently at the C-phase level:
			
Q
C K/C
T
... ...
tQ
tK/C
As far as we subscribe to the theory of unbounded Merge, IM applies freely, and
nothing prevents Q from escaping to the edge of the K-phase (100a). If this hap-
pens, Q is kept accessible for further operation even after the K/C-phase-level
Transfer. Q and K/C then should be able to act as dissociated LIs, and at the rel-
evant C-phase-level, they can independently move to their designated positions,
as in (100c). The derivation in (100) appears to be perfectly legitimate, as far as the
ESC and the PIC are concerned.
It is true to say that the ESC and the PIC derive freezing effects (89), as long
as Q stays within the interior of K/C. However, unless we find some independent
means to restrict the applicability of such “vacate-phase” movement as (100a), it
would be predicted that anything can freely move out of the moving phase and
escape the effect of the PIC, a worrisome conclusion that virtually nullifies the
prediction of freezing effects.
I would like to maintain that the prediction of the ESC and the PIC should
be kept as such, and derivations like the one in (100) should be ruled out by some
112	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
independent constraint. I propose that what rules out (100) is specifically the fol-
lowing constraint, which I will refer to as *{t, t}.
	(101)	 *{t, t}:
		 CI cannot assign a legitimate interpretation to an SO whose two members are
both copies/traces created by IM.
Cast in the terminology borrowed from the earlier trace theory of movement (cf.
Chomsky 1973, 1975a et seq.), the claim in (101) can be informally summarized
as follows: no IM-trace can be a sister of another IM-trace (however, see below for
an important clarification regarding traces of head-movement). I claim that this
effect can be explained as a direct consequence of FI.
Recall the hypothesis that an SO {H, α} constructed by IM always signifies the
following instruction for Interpret ((53) reproduced here).
	(53)	Interpret IM:
		{H, α} formed by IM of H contributes to an operator-variable formation where
the logical operator Op, characterized by the semantic features of H, scopes
over α, and the copy of H within α is interpreted as a logical variable bound
by Op.
Consider again a structure where H is first externally merged with βand then moves
into the sister of α. The structure is schematically shown in (102a). According to
(53), Interpret maps the structure to SEM where the lower copy of H is interpreted
as a logical variable bound by the higher copy of H, as in (102b).
	(102)	 a.
H α
... ... ... ...
β tH
Interpret
b.
Op x α
β x
Given this mode of CI-interpretation, it is reasonable to speculate that the follow-
ing interface conditions hold at SEM:20
	 (103)	 If H undergoes IM, the semantic features of H are interpreted at the highest
occurrence of H, where the scope of the logical operator is determined.
	(104)	 If H in {H, α} is not the highest occurrence of H created by IM, Interpret
chooses not to assign interpretation to H’s semantic features in {H, α}.
20.	The effect of this hypothesis is in part shared by Chomsky’s (2013) theory of head-detection,
where he suggests that traces of movement are rendered invisible for MHD.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 113
If the notion of head arises just as a result of minimal search of LIs’ semantic
features (the OCT, (22)), then, MHD fails to single out traces of IM as heads of
any structure at Interpret, given that their semantic features are left uninterpreted
(semantically inactive) at trace-positions.
Note that traces (i.e., all copies but the highest one) nevertheless contribute to
interpretation at SEM, by virtue of being interpreted as a logical variable x, which
can be characterized without recourse to semantic features. Thus, even if they are
free from active semantic features, traces are not violations of FI (23) (see § 5.3.2
for more discussion on the visibility of traces). In this line of reasoning, I maintain
that SOs of the form {tH, α}, tH being a trace/copy created by IM of an LI H, are
structures that are not headed at Interpret but nevertheless conform to FI.
The only requirement for traces, then, is that at least one trace in a given chain
must be located in a position where it can receive a θ-role, constituting a logical
argument of some predicative category. Recall that the θ-role of an LI H is assigned
to an SO α in {H, α} (56), as a consequence of the rule of Interpret EM (55). For
the SO in (102a), then, it should be that β is a predicative LI (verb, adjective, etc.)
that can be interpreted as θ-marking the occurrence of H it is merged with. In a
nutshell, by virtue of H being subjected to IM and hence interpreted as a logical
variable, {H, β} must be interpreted with β θ-marking (being predicated of) a
logical variable of H. That is, β should be singled out as the head of {H, β} in such
a structure, invoking the Interpret rule in (55). This amounts to the conclusion
that β cannot become a trace of IM in addition to H, since such movement would
render the semantic features of β in {H, β} invisible for MHD. Thus, it can never
be the case that both H and β move, deriving *{t, t}.
Crucially, the SO {tQ, tK/C} in (100c) is excluded by *{t, t}. Specifically, by
virtue of being subjected to A-movement, the trace of K/C becomes unable to
head the SO {tQ, tK/C}. {tQ , tK/C} occupies the configuration to which the θ-role is
assigned, and thus K’s inability to head this SO violates the CI requirement that
each K be assigned a θ-role and each θ-role be appropriately assigned to a K (the
θ-Criterion, Chomsky 1981 et seq.). In this manner, the unacceptability of the
relevant examples showing freezing effects is accounted for by the combination of
the freezing effect (89) and *{t, t} (101): on the one hand, if Q stays within the in-
terior of KP/CP, then the PIC-based proposition in (89) accounts for the freezing
effect. On the other hand, if Q moves to the edge of the K/C-phase, forming {Q,
K/C} after Transfer, further movement of both Q and K/C from such a structure
is ruled out by *{t, t}.
Let me note that the effect of *{t, t} arises only when K/C eventually undergoes
IM. Thus, cases involving an in-situ object K/C are not excluded by *{t, t}, as, e.g.,
the following contrast readily suggests:
114	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(105)	 a.	 Whoi did you see [pictures of ti]?
		 b.	*Whoi did you believe [pictures of ti]j to be tj the cause of the riot?
	(106)	 a.	 Whoi did everybody believe [that John kissed ti]?
		 b.	*Whoi was [that John kissed ti]j tj believed by everybody?
If we schematically describe the derivation for the acceptable examples in (105a)/
(106a), it would look like (107):
	 (107)	 a.	 IM of Q to the edge of K/C at the level of the K/C-phase:
			
Q
K/C
Transfer Q K/C
... tQ
...
		 b.	 Construction of the next phase with v* by EM:
			
Subject
v∗
V
Q K/C
		 c.	 IM of Q at the v*-phase level:
			
Q
Subject
v∗
V
tQ K/C
The lowest constituent in (107c), namely {tQ, K/C}, is interpretable, given that
K/C stays in situ and hence it can provide its semantic features for endocentric
interpretation of {tQ, K/C}. V assigns its θ-role to {tQ, K/C}, and K/C can receive
it via endocentricity. In this manner, *{t, t} and the freezing effect readily permit
this structure.
A word of caution is necessary regarding traces of head-movement. Recall
from § 2.8 that we advanced the “sideward LI-LI remerge” analysis of head-move-
ment. V-to-v*-raising in a transitive clause, for example, is analyzed as Merge(V,
v*) applying at the v*-phase-level, as shown in (108):
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 115
	(108)	 V-to-v*-raising, forming {V, v*}:
		a.	 {v*, {V, X(P)}}	 b.	 i.	 {v,* {V, X(P)}}
									ii.	
{V, v*}
		a′.	
V X(P)
Merge(V,v∗)
v∗
		 b′.	
V X(P)
v∗
											b″.	
V
tV X(P)
v∗
Now, if the object X(P) undergoes IM (wh-movement of Q(P), topicalization/
object-shift of K(P)/C(P), etc.), the most deeply embedded SO becomes {tV, tX(P)},
where tV is a trace of V-to-v*-raising in (108) and tX(P) a trace of IM. Is such an SO
excluded by *{t, t}? The answer must be no. V-raising and object-IM can coexist
in many I-languages simply as a matter of fact, so we need to see how *{t, t} rules
in such SOs.
I contend that no modification of *{t, t} is in order for that purpose. As stated
in (101), *{t, t} excludes SOs whose two members are both copies/traces created by
IM. The question is, then, whether head-movement counts as an instance of IM,
whose definition is reproduced here:
	(109)	 External Merge vs. Internal Merge (Chomsky 2004 et seq.):
		Merge(α, β) counts as Internal Merge (IM) if one of α, β is a term of the other.
		 If not, Merge(α, β) counts as External Merge (EM).
If we are on the right track in assuming that V-to-v*-movement is an instance of
Merge(V, v*), then, it should rather be regarded as EM according to (109), because
neither V nor v* is a term of the other (see § 2.8; see also Bobaljik & Brown 1997).
Therefore, so long as *{t, t} (101) is formulated with respect to IM, traces of head-
movement are immune to this constraint, as desired.
Head-movement is similar to IM in that it is a movement operation, and it
yields copies of X0. However, semantic effects of head-movement are known to
be so scarce that it is difficult to find any evidence for logical operator-variable
formation as depicted in the Interpret IM rule in (53). Moreover, assimilation of
head-movement to the category of EM is also in conformity with the idea that
X0-to-Y0 head-incorporation correlates with the “c-selectional” and/or “categori-
zation” requirement between X0 and Y0 (v, n, and a categorize the incorporated
√root as V, N, and A, respectively; C assigns finite tense to T under the C-T relation,
etc.), which is again a hallmark of the Interpret EM rule (55) under the duality of
116	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
semantics (see § 2.4.1 and § 3.4.2.5). Therefore, I contend that the simple definition
of EM and IM in (109) should be kept as such, and that head-movement, as an
instance of EM, should therefore be immune to *{t, t}.21,22
3.6.3	 Subject condition effects and beyond
It has been widely observed that a subject XP (whether it is nominal or clausal)
resists subextraction from within. Some examples are given in (110).
	(110)	 a.	 *Which articlei was [that John wrote ti] known to everyone?
		 b.	*Which personi were [pictures of ti] on sale?
A familiar description of the relevant facts, essentially since Huang’s (1982) CED,
holds that any subject XP constitutes an island (see also Uriagereka 1999, Nunes
& Uriagereka 2000, to which we will return in Chapter 4). However, it has become
known that this statement is too strong: subextraction from subjects are reported
from a variety of languages. For illustration, I provide some relevant examples
from Japanese that show subextraction from the (sentential) external argument.
21.	 In contrast, Narita & Fukui (2012) regard the similarity between IM and head-movement as
important, and attempt to assimilate head-movement to the category of IM. They propose that
the Chomskyan definition of EM vs. IM (109) should be replaced by (i):
	 (i)	Merge(α, β) counts as Internal Merge (IM) if α and β are terms of a single SO. Otherwise,
		Merge (α, β) counts as External Merge (EM).
This definition naturally accommodates head-movement into IM: head-movement applying to
X0 and Y0 in {…{X0, {…Y0…}}…}, understood as Merge(X0, Y0), is an instance of IM according
to (i), since both X0 and Y0 are terms of a single SO. Moreover, since “term-of” is a reflexive
relation, any SO is a term of itself (see (20a) of Chapter 2; Chomsky 1995b: 247). Therefore,
canonical instances of XP-movement correctly fall under the category of IM as defined in (i):
when α is a term of β, Merge(α, β) counts as IM, since both α and β are terms of a single SO β.
	 For reasons discussed in this section, I will refrain from adopting the alternative definition
of IM in (i), and continue to assume that head-movement is a peculiar variety of EM. However,
whether head-movement should be ultimately related to the category of IM or EM remains to
be a curious question worthy of further exploration.
22.	 v*P-fronting may constitute a piece of apparent counterevidence to *{t, t}.
	 (i)	[v*P criticize himself]i, Johnj really did [tj ti].
However, v’s trace does not appear to be interpreted as a logical variable in such a structure. There
are independent arguments that fronted v*Ps somehow obligatorily “reconstruct,” so to speak
(Heycock 1995, Takano 1995), presumably due to their predicative nature (see also Takahashi
2010). Then, the fronted v* is just phonologically pronounced in the higher position, signal-
ing some sort of discourse prominence, while semantically interpreted at the lower position,
θ-marking tj. I have to leave the study of the mechanism of reconstruction for future research.
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 117
	(111)	 Japanese:
		a.	 Cleft:
			 [Opj [John-ga	 tj 	okane-o	 karita	 koto]-ga	Mary-o	 kizutuketa
				 John-nom	money-acc borrowed nml -nom Mary-acc hurt
			 no]-wa	 yakuza-karaj	 datta.
			 nml -top gangster-from cpl.past
			 ‘It was from a gangsterj [Opj that [that John borrowed money tj] hurt Mary].’
		b.	Tough-movement:
			 yakuza-karai-ga	(Johnj-nitotte) [Opi [[[proj ti	 okane-o	karita
			 gangster-from-nom 		 John-as.for	 money-acc 	borrowed
			 koto]-ga	 Mary-o	 kanasim-ase-teiru	 to]	 mitome] nikui].
			 fact -nom Mary-acc feel.sad-caus-pres-prog that admit	 hard
			 (Lit.) ‘[from a gangster]i is hard (for Johnj) to admit [that [(the fact) that
hej borrowed money ei] makes Mary sad].’
		c.	 scrambling:
			 sono hon-oi	 John-ga	[[Mary-ga	
ti katta	koto]-ga	Bill-o
			 that book-acc John-nom		 Mary-nom	bought nml -nom Bill-acc
			 kizutuketa to]	 omotteru.
			 hurt	 that think
			 ‘That booki, John thinks [that [that Mary bought ti] hurt Bill].’
See also Stepanov (2007), who summarizes numerous examples from a variety of
languages that seem to exhibit subextraction from subjects. Some of his examples
are reproduced below.
	(112)	 Russian: (Stepanov 2007: 91)
		 a.	 S	 kem	 by	 ty	 xotel	 čtoby	 govorit’	 bylo	by	 odno
			 with	whom	subj	you	wanted	that-subj	to-speak	were subj one
			 udovol’stvie?
			 pleasure
			 (Lit.) ‘With whom would you want that [to speak____] were sheer
pleasure?’
		 b.	 Čto	 by	 ty	 xotel	 čtoby	 kupit’ ne	 sostavljalo by	 nikakogo
			 what subj you wanted that-subj to-by	 not constitute	 subj	no
			 truda?
			 labor
			 (Lit.) ‘What would you want that [to buy____] would not be any trouble?’
	(113)	 Turkish: (Stepanov 2007: 90, cited from Hankamer & Knecht 1976, Kural 1993,
Leyla Zidani-Eroǧlu, p.c.)
		a.	 [Opi [Ahmet-in	 ti git-me-si]-nin	 ben-i üz-dü-ǧ-ü]	 ev.
				 Ahmet-gen	go-inf-agr-gen I-acc sadden-past-comp-agr house
			 (Lit.) ‘The house [which [that Ahmet went to___] saddened me].’
118	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
		b.	[Opi [pro [[ti anne-si]-ni	 herkes-le	 konus-tu-ǧ-u m
				 mother-age-gen	everyone-with	talk-past-comp-agr-acc
			 duy-du-ǧ-um]	 adam.
			 hear-past-comp-agr man
			 (Lit.) ‘The man [whose I heard [that [__mother] talked to everyone]].’
	(114)	 Palauan: (Stepanov 2007: 90, cited from Georgopoulos 1991)
		Maryi [a kltukl 	 [el	 kmo ng-oltoir er a John ti]]
		Mary	r-clear	 comp r-3sg-imp-love John
		‘Maryi, [that ti loves John] is clear.’
	(115)	 Hungarian: (Stepanov 2007: 90, cited from É. Kiss 1987, Eva Bar-Shalom, p.c.)
		 Melyik színésznőneki gondolja János, hogy ti a	 fényképe	 meglett?
		 which	 actress’s	 thinks	 Janos 	that	 the picture-her turned up
		 ‘Which actress does John think that a picture of __ turned up?’
These examples constitute bona fide counterevidence to the subject condition.
However, the ESC provides an account of subject condition effects that incor-
porates the basic tenet of CED but still accommodates the existence of transparent
subjects. According to the ESC, external merger of two phrases, say XP and YP, is
impossible unless at least one of the two phrases is reducible to an LI by means of
cyclic Transfer. Thus, prior to the application of EM, either XP or YP must con-
stitute a phase without Spec, so that it can be reduced to a simplex LI by Transfer.
Note that the ESC does not specify which phrase to reduce to an LI. Specifically,
reduction of the v*-phase to v* as in (116a) will keep the edge of the subject ac-
cessible for further computation, allowing successive-cyclic subextraction. The
derivation is sketched in (116):
	(116)	 a.	
Op
K/C
... tOp
...
V Obj
Transfer
v∗
		
b.	
Op K/C Merge
v∗
		c.	
Op K/C
v∗
				d.	
Op
tOp
K/C
v∗
I claim that this is essentially what happens in the examples of subextraction from
an external argument in (111)–(115).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 119
The ESC can permit transparent in-situ subjects, and it can also account for
cases where the subject does show CED effects, such as those in (110). Here, I argue
that the islandhood of the subject KP/CP in these examples is actually due to the
freezing effect induced by A-movement of the relevant subject (see the previous
section). Generalizing the argument further, I ally with Stepanov (2007) in draw-
ing the conclusion that the subject condition effect is reducible, in its entirety, to
the freezing effect, which in turn can be derived from the ESC. In this manner, the
ESC alone provides an adequate typology of transparent and opaque subject KPs/
CPs (see also § 3.6.2 for relevant discussion).
Incidentally, this analysis holds that the reduction of v*-phase to a simplex
LI (116a) is a prerequisite for later subextraction from the external argument.
Then, it is predicted that the v*-phase cannot have any Spec in a derivation where
subextraction from the external argument applies. Specifically, Transfer at (116a)
should render the v*-phase an island for extraction, due to the inability to assume
an “escape-hatch” for successive-cyclic movement. This prediction can be stated
as in (117), and schematized in (118).
	(117)	 Complement Island:
		 If subextraction applies from the Spec of H, then the complement of H becomes
an island for extraction.
	(118)	
∗
... X ...
Op
tOp
K/C
v∗
Japanese provides crucial evidence in favor of this novel prediction. (119) gives a
relevant minimal pair from Japanese cleft constructions ((119a) = (111a)).
	(119)	 Japanese: Cleft and scrambling
		a.	 [Opj [John-ga	 tj okane-o	 karita	 koto]-ga	 Mary-o	
				 John-nom	money-acc borrowed nml -nom Mary-acc
			 kizutuketa 	no]-wa	 yakuza-karaj	 datta.
			 hurt 	 nml -top gangster-from cpl.past
			 ‘It was from a gangsterj [Opj that [that John borrowed money tj] hurt Mary].’
		 b.	*?[Opj	 Mary-oi	 [John-ga	 tj okane-o	 karita	 koto]-ga	 ti
						Mary-acc		John-nom	money-acc borrowed nml -nom
			 kizutuketa no]-wa		yakuza-karaj	 datta.
			 hurt	 nml -top gangster-from cpl.past
			 ‘It was from a gangsterj [Opj that Maryi, [that John borrowed money tj]
hurt ti].’
120	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Recall first that Japanese does allow subextraction from external arguments, as
shown in (119a). Specifically, we can construct a cleft sentence (119a) from the
underlying sentence comparable to (120a) by A′-movement of Op out of the sen-
tential external argument. In addition, it is widely known that Japanese allows
optional scrambling of KP, thus, everything else being equal, alternation between
(120a) and (120b) is freely available in this language.
	(120)	 Japanese:
		a.	 [John-ga	yakuza-kara	 okane-o	 karita	 koto]-ga	 Mary-o
			 John-nom gangster-from money-acc borrowed nml -nom Mary-acc
kizutuketa.
			 hurt
			 ‘[That John borrowed money from a gangster] hurt Mary.’
		b.	Mary-oi	 [John-ga	 yakuza-kara	okane-o	 karita	 koto]-ga
			 Mary-acc John-nom gangster-from money-acc borrowed nml -nom ti
kizutuketa.
			 hurt
			 ‘Maryi, [That John borrowed money from a gangster] hurt ti.’
I follow the standard assumption that scrambling in Japanese can target either an
outer Spec-v or some higher position (say Spec-T or Spec-C) (Saito 1985, 1992,
2003, Kuroda 1988, Fukui 1986/1995b, 1988, Fukui & Speas 1986, Saito & Fukui
1998, Miyagawa 1997, 2003 among many others; but see also Ueyama 1998, Saito
2005, Fukui & Kasai 2004). Scrambling is purely optional in most cases (Saito
1989, 1998), and it usually does not interfere with any other syntactic operation.
However, the curious fact remains that scrambling of the object across the sen-
tential subject is disallowed in (119b), where a null operator moves out of the
sentential subject. This state of affairs is indeed predicted by the ESC, as in (118):
subextraction from the subject clause entails that Transfer has “atomized” the v*-
phase, allowing no edge prior to the external merger, thus even scrambling cannot
apply to elements within the v*-phase.
A minimal pair comparable to (119) can be provided in tough-constructions,
too.
	(121)	 Japanese: Tough-movement and scrambling
		a.	 yakuza-karai-ga	(Johnj-nitotte) [Opi [[[proj ti okane-o	karita
			 gangster-from-nom John-as.for	 money-acc borrowed
			 koto]-ga	Mary-o	 kanasim-ase-teiru	 to]	 mitome] nikui].
			 fact -nom Mary-acc feel.sad-caus-pres-prog that admit	 hard
(=(111b))
			 (Lit.) ‘[from a gangster]i is hard (for Johnj) to admit [that [(the fact) that
hej borrowed money ei] makes Mary sad].’
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 121
		b.	
?*yakuza-karai-ga	(Johnj-nitotte) [Opi [[Mary-ok	 [proj ti okane-o
				gangster-from-nom John-as.for	 Mary-acc	money-acc
			 karita	 koto]-ga	
tk kanasim-ase-teiru	 to]	 mitome] nikui].
			 borrowed fact-nom	feel.sad-caus-pres-prog that admit	 hard
			 (Lit.) ‘[from a gangster]i is hard (for Johnj) to admit [that Maryk, [(the
fact) that hej borrowed money ei] makes tk sad].’
No previous account of the CED effect made predictions regarding this sort of
“complement island,” which lends further support for an ESC-based approach.23
23.	 Naoki Fukui (p.c.) provides the following examples, noting that the contrast is less obvious
than the one in (119) (the judgments reported below are his; I personally found the contrast still
significant to an extent comparable to (119)).
	 (i)	[Opj [seefu-ga	 tj wairo-o	 uketotta koto]-ga	 ookuno kokumin-o
				 government-nom		 bribe-acc received nml -nom many citizens-acc	
		fungekisaseta 	no]-wa	 sono uyokudantai-karaj	 datta.
		infuriated 	 nml -top that right.wing.group-from cpl.past
		‘It was from that right-wing groupj [Opj that [that the government received bribe tj]
infuriated many citizens].’
	 (ii)	 ??[Opj	 ookuno kokumin-oi	 [seefu-ga	 tj	wairo-o	 uketotta	koto]-ga	 ti
						 many citizens-acc	government-nom		 bribe-acc	received	nml -nom
		fungekisaseta no]-wa	 sono uyokudantai-karaj	 datta.
		infuriated	 nml -top that right.wing.group-from cpl.past
		‘It was from that right-wing groupj [Opj that many citizensi, [that the government received
bribe tj] infuriated ti].’
It is not obvious how lexical adjustment can weaken the contrast predicted by the ESC in some
cases for some speakers. What I think is relevant to this problem is the fact, reported by Ueyama
(1998), Hoji (2003), Fukui & Kasai (2004), and Agbayani et al. (2012) and others, that there
are cases where some speakers of Japanese analyze KP-/PP-scrambling as purely phonological
and involving no syntactic movement (see also Saito 1985, 1989 and others that scrambling is
“semantically vacuous”). At this point we do not have a full-fledged account of when and in
what environments such instances of phonological scrambling are available (see the above-cited
references for relevant discussion). The difficulty in testing predictions made by the ESC is then
to make sure that we are really looking at syntactic scrambling in relevant examples. One way to
control the ambiguity is to test the relevant contrast in structures of the form in (iii)–(iv), where
the object clearly binds a pronominal variable within the subject from the scrambled position.
	 (iii)	 … [Subj … pronoun*i … ] … Obji …
	 (iv)	 … Obji … [Subj … pronouni … ] … tObj …
Indeed, under this sort of control, the predicted contrast becomes really strong.
	 (v)	[Opj [soko-no*i/k kogaisya-ga	 tj 	TOB-o	 uketa koto]-ga
					
its	 subsidiary-nom		 TOB-acc made nml -nom
	 	 60%-izyoo-no syoosya-o 	 fungekisaseta no]-wa	 IBM-karaj datta.
		60%-or.more companies-acc 	infuriated	 nml -top IBM-from cpl.past
		‘It was from IBMj [Opj that [that its*i/k subsidiaries received takeover bids tj ] infuriated
more than 60% companies].’
122	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
3.6.4	 Adjunct condition effects and beyond
So far, I have put aside considerations regarding adjuncts, but the null hypoth-
esis is that the ESC also holds for adjunction. That is, there should be no XP-YP
merger, regardless of whether the merger is an instance of “substitution” (argu-
ment-merger) or adjunction.24 Consider, for example, adjunction of an adverbial
because-clause in (122):
	 (122)	 The man criticized Mary [because she failed the exam].
Adverbial clauses like the one in (122) are phrasal, so external merger of an adver-
bial clause to the main clausal spine would count as an instance of XP-YP merger,
and the ESC would necessitate reduction of one of the XPs to an LI. If the adverbial
clause is chosen, it is reduced to an LI. For expository convenience, I simply assume
that because is the relevant phase head.25
	(123)	
because
she failed the exam
Transfer because
As long as the Transfer domain within the adjunct (here the complement of be-
cause) does not contain any uninterpretable feature, then it is a convergent do-
main, and it should thus be able to constitute a phase. In conformity with the
ESC, application of cyclic Transfer (123) in effect enables the external merger of
the because-clause. As suggested by Uriagereka (1999) and Nunes & Uriagereka
(2000), the required Transfer is presumably responsible for the strong opacity of
these adjuncts (see Cattell 1976, Huang 1982, Chomsky 1986a, Uriagereka 1999).
	 (124)	 a.	 *This is the girli that John failed the test [because he was thinking about ti].
		 b.	 *I know whati the man criticized Mary [after she said ti].
	(vi)	 *[Opj 60%-izyoo-no syoosya-oi	 [soko-noi kogaisya-ga	 tj TOB-o	uketa
				 60%-or.more companies-acc its	 subsidiary-nom	TOB-acc made
	 	koto]-ga 	 ti fungekisaseta no]-wa	 IBM-karaj datta.
		nml -nom 	 infuriated	 nml -top IBM-from cpl.past
		‘It was from IBMj [Opj that more than 60% companiesi, [that itsi subsidiaries received
takeover bids tj] infuriated ti].’
24.	Chomsky (2004) proposes that these two types of Merge correspond to set-Merge and pair-
Merge, respectively.
25.	 See Emonds (2009) for the hypothesis that most adjuncts are in fact headed by (often covert)
P (adposition).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 123
Uriagereka and Nunes claim that the CED effect in these examples can be readily
attributed to the obligatory Transfer-based reduction of these adjuncts. I will es-
sentially follow their reasoning and attribute the unacceptability of the examples
in (124) to the PIC.
Contra the widely accepted view that adjuncts are always strong islands (see
Cattell 1976, Huang 1982, Chomsky 1986a, Uriagereka 1999, Stepanov 2007), how-
ever, it has been observed that not all adjuncts exhibit CED effects (see Chomsky
1982, Boeckx 2003, Truswell 2007a, 
b, 2011 among many others). Chomsky
(1982: 72) already observed some apparent counterexamples to the adjunct con-
dition, like those in (125).
	 (125)	 (Chomsky 1982: 72)
		 a.	 Here is the influential professor that John went to college [in order to
impress e].
		 b.	 The article that I went to England [without reading e]
		 c.	 The man that I went to England [without speaking to e]
Truswell (2007a, b, 2011) provides a thorough survey of apparent CED-violating
subextraction from adjuncts. Some examples from Truswell are reproduced in
(126). A similar set of examples can be constructed in noninterrogative contexts
as well, as shown in (127).
	 (126)	 (Truswell 2007a, b, 2011)
		a.	 Which booki did John design his garden [after reading ti]?
		b.	Whati did John arrive [whistling ti]?
		c.	 Whati did John drive Mary crazy [whistling ti]?
		d.	Whati did John drive Mary crazy [trying to fix ti]?
		e.	 Whati are you working so hard [in order to achieve ti]?
		f.	 Whoi did John travel to England [to make a sculpture of ti]?
		g.	 Whose attentioni is John jumping up and down [in order to attract ti]?
		h.	Whati did Christ die [in order to save us from ti]?
		i.	 Whati did you tap your nose [in order to signal ti to Mary]?
		j.	 Whati did you come in [to talk to us about ti] today?
	 (127)	 a.	 This is the booki that John designed the garden [after reading ti].
		 b.	 It was Hey Judei that John arrived [whistling ti].
		 c.	 I bet I know whati John drove Mary crazy [trying to fix ti].
		 d.	 It is this goali that students are working so hard [in order to achieve ti].
		 e.	 Mary told me that Sam is whoi John traveled to England [to make a sculp-
ture of ti].
		f.	 There’s the taxii that John was jumping up and down [in order to attract ti].
		 g.	 This is the matteri that I came in [to talk to you about ti] today.
124	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
These examples transparently show that UG should not characterize adjuncts as
exceptionless islands. In terms of the ESC-based account, these examples show
that certain adjuncts, including bare and PP gerundives (e.g., (after) reading the
textbook) and purpose-clauses (e.g., in order to save us from the guilt), are allowed
not to undergo reduction to a simplex node at the point of adjunction. How can
we ensure this result, while still keeping the ESC-based account of CED effects for
the type of adjuncts like those in (124)?
I would like to propose that, unlike the adverbial clauses such as the ones
headed by because, which I assume adjoin to positions higher than v/v*, these
transparent adjuncts are allowed to adjoin low in the clausal spine, below v/v*
(see Borgonovo & Neeleman 2000). I claim that this difference in adjunction sites
allows us to make the cut between the class of “high” adjuncts (exhibiting CED
effects) and the class of “low” adjuncts (exempt from CED effects).
First, consider cases with transparent adjuncts, e.g., the PP-gerundive after
reading (which book) in (126a).
	(128)	 a.	
V K
v∗
	b.	
after
reading ...
	
By assumption, the adverbial is a type of “low” adjunct that can be adjoined within
the domain c-commanded by v*. For the case in question, I argue that there are
two potential adjunction sites meeting this requirement, which are shown in (128),
with K being a phase head residue of its own phase. These adjunction sites are
outside of the phase of K but still in the scope of v/v*. I will specifically claim that
adjunction to the (second) sister of K is the option that eventually allows subex-
traction from the low adjunct.
(128) is a case of “XP-YP” merger, thus the ESC requires cyclic Transfer to
reduce at least one of the XPs to a simplex LI. The wh-phrase within the adjunct
(128b) is by assumption a phase headed by covert Q (= K) (Cable 2007, 2010), thus
reduced to Q after the Q-phase-level Transfer. In order for Q to undergo succes-
sive cyclic movement to the edge of interrogative C, Q should first evacuate to the
edge of the phase in (128b). As a result, the phase with Q at its edge can never be
reduced by Transfer to an LI. The ESC therefore predicts that K should be the target
of adjunction in (128a) that should be reduced to an LI. While the node {V, [K…]}
is not a suitable candidate for a phase, given the unvalued Case-feature on K, the
reduction of the K-phase to K via cyclic Transfer is feasible, assuming the Theme
KP constitutes its own phase. The derivation is schematically shown in (129).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 125
	(129)	 a.	
K
your garden
Wh
after
... tWh
...
Transfer
		b.			
Wh after Merge
			 K
		c.	
K
Wh after
The reduction of the object K-phase in (129a) lets the adverbial remain accessible
for further operations, allowing subextraction of Wh. The availability of this deri-
vation readily accounts for the fact that low adjuncts may be immune to the CED
effect, a desirable result.
On the other hand, adverbials that show CED-effects, like finite clauses headed
by because or after, are adjoined relatively high in the clausal spine, specifically po-
sitions that can take scope over v/v*.26 This adjunction would take the form of (130):27
	(130)	 a.	
C
T
K[uCase]
v∗
	 	 b.	
because
...
Here, I claim that reduction of the adverbial clause (130b) to an LI is necessitated
by the ESC. The reason is the presence of the uninterpretable Case-feature on the
subject K (see note 28 of Chapter 2). There is evidence that Nominative Case as-
signment by T is contingent on the presence of C (Iatridou 1993, Watanabe 1996;
Richards 2007b and Chomsky 2007a, 2008 specifically argue that the unvalued
26.	The Condition C effect in examples like He*i got sick {because/since/after} Johni ate that
fish shows that these adjuncts are necessarily located below the subject (which is at so-called
“Spec-T”) at SEM, thus it seems that adjunction of these adverbial clauses to a position that is
not c-commanded by the raised subject is precluded for some independent reason. If we assume
with Chomsky (2007a, 2008) that every operation except EM takes place at the phase level, it
naturally follows that EM of the adverbial to T′ or v*P necessarily precedes the introduction of
C and the EPP-driven subject raising. Alternatively, we may resort to Higginbotham’s (1985)
hypothesis that T/INFL is the locus of the existential closure of event variables and thus it is
required to scope over all the adjuncts whose event variables it binds.
27.	 Adjunction to the subject K in this context is precluded, because it would result in a struc-
ture like {{K, adjunct}, v*}, locating the relevant high adjunct under the scope of v/v*. This by
definition violates the above-mentioned condition on the scope of high adjuncts.
126	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
φ-features responsible for Nominative Case valuation are introduced by C and
inherited onto T). The uninterpretable Case-feature of the subject K remains un-
checked until the introduction of the phase head C, and so neither of the poten-
tial adjunction sites indicated by arrows in (130) can define a convergent phase.
Therefore, it is impossible for these phrases to be reduced to simplex LIs by means
of cyclic Transfer, and the ESC forces NS to execute reduction of the adverbial
(131a) to achieve EM in (131b)/(131b′).
	(131)	 a.	
because
she failed the exam
Transfer because
		b.	
K[uCase]
v∗
K[uCase]
v∗
because
Merge because
		b′.	
T because
Merge because
T
K[uCase]
v∗
K[uCase]
v∗
Consequently, the adverbial phase cannot assume any edge for successive-cyclic
movement, precluding subextraction.
Moreover, I would like to point out that the ESC-based account makes the
novel prediction that adjunction of transparent low adjuncts is unavailable for the
ECM construction. If we assume with Chomsky (1995b, 2000a, 2007a, 2008) that
the subject of the ECM-infinitival receives Accusative Case from v* (see Chomsky
1981; see also Postal 1974, Lasnik & Saito 1991 for the raising-to-object analysis
of ECM), the configuration to which the low adjunct adjoins will have the follow-
ing form.
	(132)	 a.	
V “TP”
... K[uCase]
...
v∗
		 b.	 adjunct
...
The unvalued Case-feature of K within the ECM infinitival effectively makes any
of the potential adjunction sites in (132a) nonconvergent, thus the ESC again pre-
dicts that the low adjunct (132b) should constitute a phase reducible to an LI by
Transfer, prohibiting subextraction out of it. This prediction is indeed borne out
by the unacceptability of (133a) (Bridget Samuels, p.c.):
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 127
	(133)	 a.	
?*Which triali did the DA prove [the suspect to have been at the scene of the
crime] [in order to conclude ti]?
		b.	Which triali did the DA prove [that the suspect was at the scene of the
crime] [in order to conclude ti]?
		c.	 Which triali did the DA decide [to call the suspect for psychiatric exami-
nation] [in order to conclude ti]?
Crucially, note the contrast between (133a) and (133b, c). On the one hand, the
finite that-clause in (133b) is a CP that can constitute its own phase. Hence, its
reduction to an LI can support a convergent derivation similar to (129), allowing
subextraction from the low adjunct. The same applies to the control infinitival CP
[PRO to call the suspect for psychiatric examination] in (133c). On the other hand,
an ECM-infinitival TP is different from finite and control CPs in that it cannot
define its own phase due to the unvalued Case-feature on the raising object the sus-
pect, thus it cannot be reduced to an LI via Transfer, which effectively precludes wh-
subextraction out of the low adjunct. The data in (133) hence constitute another
piece of strong support for the ESC based account of the adjunct condition effect.
Importantly, (133a) and (133b) are virtually identical as far as their semantic
interpretations are concerned, so the contrast in this minimal pair constitutes a
strong piece of evidence that the nature of the contrast is syntactic rather than
semantic or pragmatic. Thus, it speaks against Truswell’s (2007a, b, 2011) semantic
analysis of the relevant facts. Specifically, Truswell proposes the following seman-
tic condition and argues that subextraction from adjuncts is allowed as long as it
satisfies this condition.
	(134)	 Single Event Condition (Truswell 2007a, b, 2011):
		 An instance of wh-movement is acceptable only if the minimal constituent
containing the head and the foot of the chain describes a single event.
The notion of single eventhood subsumes various contingency relations among
events. For example, the Single Event Condition rules in (126e), because the rel-
evant two events described therein can be argued to form a single “macro-event”
via what he calls the “enablement” relation: the event of working so hard can be
understood as enabling the realization of achieving something. Moreover, (126b) is
also ruled in, because the event of whistling something and that of John’s arriving
can be integrated by the relation of immediate temporal precedence. In this man-
ner, Truswell elaborates a highly articulated theory of event composition, which
ensures the result that the minimal constituent containing the wh-chain constitutes
a description of a single “macro-event.”
However, the Single Event Condition has presumably nothing to say about
the contrast between (133a) and (133b), given that (133a) describes as “single” a
“macro-event” as (133b) does. Truswell’s argument against the relevance of syntax
128	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
is correspondingly undermined. At least, then, phase cyclicity and the Single Event
Condition may be principles that support each other in accounting for the facts
about subextraction from adjuncts. One may also argue that rather than seeing the
semantic condition as an unexplained axiom that a posteriori allows subextraction
from adjuncts, we may rather see phase-based successive cyclicity, independently
motivated by the principle of minimal computation, as the source of semantic
coherency (“single-eventhood”) of the relevant syntactic domains.28
The present discussion builds on the assumption that EM of adjuncts obeys
the ESC, just like other cases of Merge. The necessary consequence is, of course,
that the adjoined material that occupies the position of H in {H, α} may determine
the endocentricity of the SO. So long as our ESC-based analysis of adjunct condi-
tion effects is on the right track, this must always be true for high adjuncts, and
most cases of low adjuncts also conform to this picture, too.29 Then, MHD makes
28.	See also Samuels & Narita (2013) for data that suggest the relevance of phase cyclicity to
prosodic phrasing.
29.	However, in contrast with high adjuncts, there are cases in which low adjuncts like locative
PPs and gerundives may occupy the position of α in {H, α}, provided that the main clausal spine
can be reduced to an LI H prior to adjunction. In particular, it was proposed in § 3.6.4 that a low
adjunct can subsume an edge for successive cyclic movement by being located in the sister of
the object K. See, e.g., (129). In such a derivation, the low adjunct occupies the position of α in
the H-α structure. The Interpret EM rule in (55) then predicts that the interpretation of the SO
should be determined prominently by the semantic features of the object K, while the adjunct
phrase is interpreted relative to K.
	 There is an interesting set of data that might support this prediction. Consider the following
set of examples.
	 (i)	A:	Which booki did John design his garden [after reading ti]?
		B:	 An introduction to landscape gardening.
	 (ii)	A:	Which booki did John design his garden [after reading ti]?
		 B:	#Finnegans Wake.
Truswell (2007b, 2011) reports that subextraction of a wh-phrase from an adjunct imposes an
interesting restriction concerning the assumed answer to the question. In his terms, the event
described by the transparent adjunct should be connected to the matrix event by what he calls the
enablement relation: for instance, the form of question in (i)–(ii) induces the speaker’s assump-
tion that reading the relevant book(s) is an event such that it in some way or another enables
John to design his garden. This assumption is compatible with, e.g., the answer in (i), namely an
introduction to landscape gardening, while it makes answers like Finnegans Wake infelicitous.
I would like to speculate that this state of affairs may alternatively be characterized as follows,
in line with the proposed framework: since the adjunction structure is generated by EM, it is
subject to the rule in (55), which requires that the adjunct phrase must be interpreted relative to
the object LI K. Then, it is not unreasonable to suppose that the event described by the adjunct is
thereby semantically related to the object his garden, which may explain the semantic coherency
of the matrix event and the adjunct. Though this line of approach requires more elaboration
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 129
a ­
prediction different from the traditional theory of labeled phrase structure: in such
cases, it is the adjoined material that becomes the head of the output of adjunct-merger.
In particular, the semantic rule for EM in (55) holds that the main clausal spine α is to
be interpreted relative to the adjunct H in {H, α}. As for (131), for example, the predic-
tion is that the matrix v*P or TP, corresponding to the event in which the man criticized
Mary, is interpreted in relation to the semantics of the adjunct headed by because.
Is this an undesirable prediction? Maybe, or maybe not. Different hypotheses
may provide different answers, but it is clear at least that this prediction is a straight-
forward consequence of MHD and the ESC. Therefore, so long as we hope to keep
to our principled explanation of endocentricity sketched in § 3.3, as well as the CED
effects on adjuncts, we just have to swallow this conclusion. Note that irrespective
of the presence of one or more adjuncts within a phase SO Σ, the endocentric inter-
pretation of Σ is anyway determined prominently by its phase head. For example,
the matrix clause is headed by C, so the propositionality, finiteness, and force of
the matrix clause are anyway determined by the phase head C, whether or not it
contains one or more adjuncts. Similarly, K, P, v*, and other phase heads also deter-
mine endocentric interpretations of their own phases. The fact that a phase contains
an intermediate structure headed by an adjunct would thus pose little problem at
Interpret, which applies at the phase level. Moreover, roughly speaking, adjuncts are
elements that provide background descriptions of the constituent they adjoin to, so
it is not unreasonable to state that the interpretation of the matrix is relativized to
the semantics of adjoined materials, in line with the broad characterization in (55).
All in all, it is not obvious whether we need to withdraw the conclusion forced by
the ESC and MHD, namely that adjuncts prototypically determine endocentricity
(cf. note 1 for the Bloomfieldian conception of endocentricity).
However, it is of course possible that further empirical considerations will
eventually force us to depart from such a null hypothesis, going back to, say, the
old idea that adjuncts are invisible for head-detection. One way to approach this
problem, while keeping to the empirical strength of the ESC, is to suppose that
interpretive asymmetry between the main structure and adjuncts is captured by a
different source of structural asymmetry other than the LI vs. phrase distinction.
For example, we may adopt Chomsky’s (2004) proposal that adjunction is an op-
eration that generates an ordered pair of the two input SOs, 〈α, β〉. Chomsky refers
to this kind of Merge as pair-Merge, to distinguish it from the ordinary variety of
Merge as set-formation (set-Merge in his terminology). Pair-Merge creates SOs
with a built-in asymmetry encoded by order, which may be sufficient to capture the
and refinement, I would like to note that the MHD-based theory of endocentric interpretation
may be further extended to this prima facie semantic observation (cf. Truswell’s Single Event
Condition in (134)).
130	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
relevant distinction between the main structure and the adjunct. Then, all we need
to assume to sustain the account of adjunct condition effects is that pair-Merge
also obeys the ESC, keeping to MC.
For lack of strong empirical evidence for or against these considerations, I
will refrain from adopting such additional assumptions, although it is certain that
much more research is needed to determine the proper semantic analysis of ad-
juncts on a finer-grained basis.
3.6.5	 The Phrasal Sister Condition
We saw in the previous sections how the ESC can provide a uniform account of
the freezing principle, the subject condition, and the adjunct condition. In addi-
tion, it also provides a novel account of the “complement island” effect discussed
in (117), as well as the cases of certain permissible subextraction from adjuncts
studied by Truswell (2007a, b, 2011) among others. Let me further point out that
the prediction made by the ESC for these data can be generalized to the following
derivational constraint that we may call the Phrasal Sister Condition (PSC):
	(135)	 Phrasal Sister Condition (PSC):
		 No narrow styntactic operation (IM or Agree) can relate X and Y in the structure
		 … X … {[α … Y … ], [β … ]} … (order irrelevant)
		where β is phrasal (not an LI or a phase which has been reduced to an LI by
Transfer).
(135) can be straightforwardly deduced from the ESC, simply because it predicts
that Merge cannot combine two phrases α and β unless Transfer reduces at least
one of them to a simplex LI: if β is irreducibly phrasal, then α must be a simplex
LI. This single generalization can cover all the conditions on extraction domains
discussed so far. First, the freezing effect corresponds to cases where α is a moved
ph(r)ase and β is the target phrase of IM. By the definition of IM, β is irreducibly
phrasal in (136) by virtue of containing the original occurrence of α.
	(136)	 β
... α ...
...
... α ...
X
IM α β
Next, in a derivation where subextraction from the in-situ external argument XP
applies, the operator moves to the edge of the XP for successive cyclic movement,
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 131
thus making the XP irreducibly phrasal. If β stands for this XP, then it is predicted
that extraction from α is unapplicable, which derives the “complement island” ef-
fect in (117) (see the derivation sketched in (116)).
	(137)	
β
Op
X
α
v∗
...
... tOp
...
Further, the case of impermissible subextraction from adjuncts can be fit into the
generalization in (135), where β stands for the main clausal spine containing a
non-Case-marked K(P), and α the relevant opaque adjunct.
	(138)	
β
X
α
Z
... K[uCase]
...
... Y ...
I would like to argue that the following data from raising constructions lend further
support to the prediction by the PSC (135).
	(139)	 a.	 Many booksi seem [to John] (still) [to be ti in the room].
		 b.	*Who(m)i do many booksj seem [to ti] (still) [to be tj in the room]?
		c.	 [To whom]i do many booksj seem ti (still) [to be tj in the room]?
The raising predicate seem can optionally take an experiencer argument PP, as ex-
emplified by to John in (139a). What is interesting is the fact pointed out by Groat
(1999) that this to-PP is opaque to further computations: e.g., subextraction of its
complement yields ungrammaticality as shown in (139b). Notice that PP is gener-
ally not an island for extraction in English, as shown in (140), and hence previous
theories that characterize English PPs as transparent (van Riemsdijk 1978, Abels
2001) would have little to say about the contrast in (139).
	(140)	 a.	 Which cityi are you heading [to ti]?
		b.	Who(m)i did you give a present [to ti]?
		c.	 Johni was spoken [to ti] (by Mary).
132	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
I contend that (139) can be rather straightforwardly accounted for by the PSC
(135). To begin, the experiencer PP is presumably located above the raising infini-
tival TP and below the raised subject KP, as shown by the binding facts in (141).
	(141)	 a.	 Johni seems [to {himselfi /him*i}] [TP to be t smart]
		b.	Theyi seem [to {each otheri /them*i}] [TP to be t smart]
Thus, the raising construction in (139) should involve something like the structure
in (142).
	(142)	
Subject
α
to K(P)
β
... tSubject
...
This is another instance of apparent “XP-YP” structure, for which the ESC makes a
now familiar prediction: either α or β should constitute a “Specless” phase reducible
to a simplex LI by means of Transfer. Raising of the subject out of β indicates that β
does not constitute a phase and hence is irreducibly phrasal, so it should be α, the
experiencer PP, that constitutes such a Specless phase. The P-phase (or the Q-phase
taking PP as its complement; see § 3.4.2.3) can move by itself, as shown in (139c),
but extraction from such a PP should be disallowed due to the PIC, yielding the
unacceptability of (139b). This way, (142) constitutes another case supporting the
PSC (135), where an irreducibly phrasal SO β bars movement out of its sister α.30
30.	Note that a similar observation can be made for cases where a raising verb takes a finite
clause as its complement. The data are from Groat (1999: 30–31) and Hornstein (2009: 144).
	 (i)	*Who(m)i does it seem [to ti] [that it is raining]
	 (ii)	[To whom]i does it seem ti [that it is raining]
These data are also amenable to the same account based on the PSC (135), if we adopt Rosenbaum’s
(1970) hypothesis that the expletive it in such a configuration is base-generated at the edge of the
embedded that-clause and moves to the subject position.
	 (iii)	
it
α
to K(P)
β
tit
that ...
A question may be raised as to how we can make sense of the contrasting acceptability of ex-
amples of the following sort:
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 133
3.6.6	 Locality beyond lexicalism and barrierhood
Boeckx & Grohmann (2007) contend that Chomsky’s (2000a, 2001, 2004) original
notion of phases can basically be regarded as a replacement of earlier notions of
“bounding nodes” (Chomsky 1973, 1986a), as far as the account of syntactic local-
ity is concerned. In Chomsky’s phase theory with the PIC, each phase is an island
for subextraction, unless the moving element is evacuated to its edge before the
completion of that phase. Specifically, in order to allow interphasal movement to
proceed in a successive cyclic fashion, Chomsky proposes that phase-head LIs are
associated with some P(eriphery)-features (EPP-features, OCC(urrence)-features,
etc.) that somehow allow movement from inside the phase to its edge. In Chomsky
(2007a, 2008), the notion of P-feature is dispensed with, and its effect is attributed
to the generalized “edge-feature” (EF), a concept to which we return in § 5.2.2.
However, it is often acknowledged that Chomsky’s conception of phases alone is
insufficient to account for any island effect, once the theory loosens the barrier-
hood of phases by incorporating P-features or EFs. This point is made clear by, e.g.,
Ceplová’s (2001: 2–3) following remark, cited in Boeckx & Grohmann (2007: 213):
In the current theory, all phase-boundary-inducing heads can have P-features.
A head with a P-feature can attract elements with unsatisfied uninterpretable fea-
tures to its specifier, with the result that the P-feature is checked by the attractee,
and the attractee is in a position from which it can move further to satisfy its un-
interpretable feature (and thus prevent the derivation from crashing). The problem
that arises by this proposal is that now nothing should be an island if all strong
phases allow movement out of them (due to P-features). (emphasis added)
In response to this worrisome aspect of phase theory, Chomsky (2001, 2004),
Ceplová (2001), and many others attempt to delineate proper restrictions on the
distribution of active P-features. However, the fundamental insufficiency observed
by Ceplová remains unremedied. This even leads Boeckx & Grohmann (2007) to
conclude that “locality doesn’t offer any argument for phases.”
However, what we saw above speaks directly against Boeckx & Grohmann’s
(2007) conclusion. It was shown that, once the theory of phases is coupled with
the ESC, the PIC does provide a simple and unified account of CED effects, which
achieves even broader empirical coverage. The fundamental conclusion that we
	 (iv)	 ?Whomi was it {told/indicated} [to ti] [that John is a genius]?
I speculate that, unlike the that-clause in the raising construction in (i)–(ii), which I claim is
unambiguously analyzed as in (iii), the sentence-final that-clause in (iv) can also be marginally
analyzed as an appositive clause which serves to specify the content of the proposition denoted
by it. I have to leave the details of the analysis for future research.
134	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
reached in the preceding discussion is that phase cycles are crucially in service of
recursive structure-embedding that is compliant with the ESC, or more generally
with the projection-free conception of endocentricity (MHD). Therefore, as long
as we agree that the SMT leads us to emancipate bare phrase structure from the
residual stipulation of labeling/projection borrowed from PSRs, locality of the CED
sort does lend strong support to the theory of phases, pace Boeckx & Grohmann.
Before proceeding to the next section, I would like to briefly remark that the
ESC-based account of locality distinguishes itself in an important respect from
the earlier proposals by Ross (1967, 1986), Chomsky (1973, 1986a), Kayne (1981a,
1983, 1984), Huang (1982), and many others. These proposals essentially hold that
barrierhood is lexical in nature, and prototypically characterized by referring to
features and projections of certain LIs. Since the groundbreaking work by Ross
(1967, 1986), it has been dominantly presumed that locality constraints have to
do with inherent barrierhood of certain SOs: projections of certain LIs constitute
islands in certain environments while others do not. Ross first provided an impres-
sive list of fine-grained islands, each associated with lexical and categorial specifi-
cations along with positional restrictions, such as the complex NP constraint, the
sentential subject condition, and so on. Chomsky’s (1973) theory of subjacency was
essentially an attempt to reduce the catalog of fragmented islands, where NP and
S were singled out as the set of bounding nodes that restrict transformations from
relating elements crossing them. Rizzi (1978) and van Riemsdijk (1978) further
argue that such lexical specification of bounding nodes is parametrized across lan-
guages. Later development of bounding theory culminating with Chomsky (1986a)
essentially shared the same insight, namely that certain lexical projections but
not others are bounding nodes and/or barriers, with an interesting twist that the
barrierhood is somewhat relaxed in certain (again lexically specified) contexts,
such as proper government (Kayne 1981a, 1983, 1984, Huang 1982) or L-marking
(Chomsky 1986a) by certain LIs. Chomsky’s (2000a, 2001, 2004) P-feature-based
conception of successive cyclicity discussed above can be seen as just another such
lexicalist approach to barrierhood. An important addition of a different sort to
bounding theories is Rizzi’s (1990) relativized minimality, whose effect of closest at-
traction is relativized to lexical features ([WH]-features, φ-features, focus-features,
etc.) (see also Chomsky 1995b, Fukui 1999; see also Chomsky’s 2000a, 2001, 2008
defective intervention condition).
In contrast to the lexicalist orientation of earlier bounding theories, however,
the ESC-based account sketched in this chapter holds that characterization of the
relevant locality effect makes virtually no recourse to lexical constitution of SOs.
It holds that no phrases or LIs are specified as barriers per se, and no relevant
computation is relativized to features of LIs. Under this account, the effect of the
PIC arises for an SO Σ under the condition that the sister of Σ takes a certain
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 135
structural shape (namely a phrase), regardless of lexical contents. In this sense, the
account is purely structural and non-lexical, thus complying with Boeckx’s (2010a)
criticism of the overuse of lexical features in syntactic theory. The relevant locality
constraints are now tied to the efficient cyclicity of derivation by phase, a desired
result that was already envisaged by Chomsky (2000a, 2001) and others (see in
particular Toyoshima 1997, Uriagereka 1999, 2008, 2012, and Nunes & Uriagereka
2000) but not achieved until the present ESC-based account.
3.7	 Further consequences on the problem of learnability
We saw that the ESC derives a number of predictions that receive strong empiri-
cal support. Before concluding the present chapter, I would like to discuss some
further consequences of the ESC for the acquisition of the Lexicon.
We presume that Merge is a necessary part of any recursive computational
mechanism such as human language. We further assume that there must also
exist some finite set of “atomic elements” that serve as input to Merge but they
themselves are not created by Merge. Throughout the present work, I use the term
“lexical item” (LI) to refer to the “atomic” elements of computation that are stored
in the Lexicon. Each LI may further contain some formal features that differentiate
one LI from the other in their functions and distributions in syntactic derivation,
as well as some other intrinsic features that can contribute to interpretation either
at SEM or PHON (semantic and phonological features).
We saw further that the atomicity of LIs also crucially figures in the mechanism
of MHD. MHD is understood as efficient inspection of primitive elements that are
relevant to interpretation, and this discussion has been based on the assumption
that the atoms for Merge, namely LIs, are also atoms for MHD. That is, we are
subscribing to the following equation:
	 (143)	 Elements stored in the Lexicon (LIs) = atomic elements for Merge = atomic
elements for head-detection.
This equation, though traditional, is open to scrutiny. I will continue to adopt
(143), but it should be noted that no known principle of computation requires it.
Uncontroversially, there exist LIs that are stored in the Lexicon and constitute
input to NS. That said, we really don’t know what the internal composition of
LIs can be. How “complex” are LIs? Does UG specify any constraint on the pos-
sible featural composition of LIs? How can the featural composition of each LI be
learned/acquired by the child through experience? Opinions vary as to what the
smallest unit of linguistic computation is, or where the computation “bottoms
out.” Linguists have proposed all sorts of different conceptions of the Lexicon, but
136	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
there is no sign that the controversy will ever find a point of agreement. However,
despite linguists’ continuous failure to pin down a reasonable and agreeable set
of universal linguistic primitives, human infants still acquire the Lexicon of one
or another I-language with remarkable speed and uniformity, a familiar poverty-
of-the-stimulus fact. How could this ever be possible? If there is indeed some set
of primitives that are readily accessible to infants, why are trained adult linguists
bound to fail to find the slightest trace of them?
The ESC might hint at a clue to this learnability problem. Consider, for ex-
ample, recent experimental results discussed in Yang & Gambell’s work (see Yang
2002, 2004, Gambell & Yang 2003 among others), according to which the general
mechanism of statistical data analysis (presumably a constituent of the third fac-
tor of FL design) provides a reasonable first-cut segmentation of words in pri-
mary linguistic data, when it works in tandem with the principle (presumably
determined by UG) that each phonological word bears a single primary accent.
Given the relative ease of detecting phonological words in primary data (say, the
three phonological words in /ðǝˈboɪzˈkɪstǝˈgǝrl/, the-bóys kíssed a-gírl), it seems
reasonable to suppose that children acquire these readily detectable units as the
first provisional candidates for LIs. From there, the ESC provides a preliminary
analysis of sentential structures comprised of these words, synthesizing them in
accordance with the ESC (e.g., {the-bóys, {kíssed, a-gírl}} or the like). In addition to
such a “bottom-to-top” application of the ESC-based structural analysis, the ESC
might also give a clue to a “top-down” decomposition of words to smaller units. For
example, the phonological word the-bóys may be eventually analyzed as {the, bóys},
further to {the, {boy, s}}, and even to {the, {-s, {n, √boy}}} under the guidance of
the ESC. Each of ESC-based reanalyses of phonological word structures may lead
to a corresponding revision of the list of provisionally analyzed LIs. For example,
a learner of English may start with the provisional list of unanalyzed phonological
words as his first Lexicon, say {the-bóys, kíssed, a-gírl, … }, but continuous revisions
will be made to this list as the acquisition proceeds.
Various cues from experience (distributional or semantic) may be taken as evi-
dence for such decomposition. Among other things, the ESC predicts that any in-
stance of a movable element should involve a phase-head LI, sometimes covert: for
example, A- or A′-movement of nominals might be sufficient to indicate that there
is some category (namely K) that heads the relevant nominal structure. Whereas
learners of languages like Japanese will identify it with overt case-particles­(like
o ‘acc’ and ga ‘nom’), learners of languages like English may assign a morpheme
with zero phonetic content to this category. Arguably, such functional categories
are relatively easy to detect via overt evidence, such as morphological manifestation
and movement. They satisfy what Fukui & Sakai (2003: 327; see also Thráinsson
1996) call the Visibility Guideline for Functional Categories, which holds that a
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 137
functional category has to be visible (i.e., detectable) in the primary linguistic data,
thus simplifying the problem of learnability.31
	(144)	 Visibility Guideline for Functional Categories (Fukui & Sakai 2003: 327; see
also Thráinsson 1996):
		 A functional category has to be visible (i.e., detectable) in the primary linguistic
data.
I further speculate that Cinque’s (1993) null theory of nuclear stress might be of
great advantage for the process of ESC-based decomposition. In simplified terms,
Cinque’s theory holds that the most deeply embedded element has the primary
stress in the structure. If the ESC independently guarantees that each of the con-
stituent structures is analyzed as {H, α}, then the Cinquean nuclear stress rule al-
ways assigns the primary stress to α. Therefore, the stressed/unstressed distinction
will be made to correlate with the α/H- (i.e., XP/X0-) distinction, which greatly
facilitates the recursive analysis of linguistic structures, not only at the sentential
and phrasal levels but maybe also at the word-internal level, too (Cinque’s theory
was proposed as a unifying account of stress patterns at these levels).
In this respect, the ESC is both a very “soft” and a very “hard” constraint
on the possible form of linguistic structure. It is quite “soft” in the sense that it
allows both leftward and rightward branching of the H-α structure, as in, e.g.,
{the, {{n, √lecture}, yesterday}} in English, or {{that-gen, {yesterday-gen, {n,
√lecture}}}, acc} (so-no kinoo-no koogi-o) in Japanese. More importantly, the
analysis parses the relevant H-α branching structure without involving any extra
notions like “head-of,” “adjunct-of,” or “specifier-of.” As we have seen throughout
the present chapter, these notions are just unnecessary and stipulative residue of
the earlier phrase structure grammar that are simply unavailable in projection-
free bare phrase structure (see § 5.2.3 for related discussion). On the other hand,
the ESC is so “hard” a constraint that it disallows any vacant structural slots
like unfilled “specifiers” and “complements,” which cannot be excluded in X-bar-
theoretic phrase structures. Moreover, it strongly restricts the possible instances
of “displacement” in natural languages, and it instructs the child that any appar-
ent instances of “XP”-movement should involve cyclic application of Transfer,
specifically triggered by phase-heads that encapsulate Transferred domains for
phonological purposes.
31.	 Incidentally, it is not unreasonable to speculate that this sort of learnability consideration
independently supports the connection between obligatoriness of “EPP-driven” A-movement
in languages without case-particles like English, and optionality of A-movement in languages
like Japanese with overt case-particles. See also Fukui & Takano (1998, 2000) and Fukui &
Sakai (2003).
138	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
In this manner, the ESC provides a strong restriction on the space of possible
syntactic structures, and hence a strong bias for the initial linguistic analysis en-
tertained by the child. The problem of explanatory adequacy is correspondingly
simplified, approaching a principled explanation of human language.32 In this ap-
proach, the atomicity of LIs is regarded not as an unanalyzable axiom of UG, but
rather as a consequence of the ESC-based analysis of lexical entries. This seems to
me to be a very important conclusion, in light of the unresolved controversy on
the set of linguistic primitives.
3.8	 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, it was argued that reference to projection is a prominent depar-
ture from the SMT, in that it necessitates some violations of the IC and the NTC.
I proposed that cyclic derivation by phase (Chomsky 2004, 2007a, 2008) paves the
way for keeping to the minimal hypothesis that syntax assumes no mechanism of
projection while the effect of endocentricity can be exhaustively characterized by
MHD. It was then argued that the combination of FI and MHD straightforwardly
derives what I have called the ESC, under our assumption that endocentricity is a
necessary condition for an SO to satisfy FI, i.e., to receive compositional interpreta-
tion. The ESC was further shown to be associated with richer empirical coverage,
when tied with the notion of phase cycles defended in Chapter 2. Specifically, this
chapter entertained the following reasoning: if the premise in (145) holds, then
the consequences in (146) are straightforwardly derived.
	 (145)	 UG does not assume any mechanism of projection/feature-percolation,
while endocentricity via MHD is a necessary condition for SOs to receive
compositional interpretation.
	 (146)	 a.	 The ESC (25) holds for all instances of Merge.
		 b.	 Cyclic Transfer critically underlies recursive merger of two nonhead XPs.
		 c.	 Only phases can undergo “XP”-movement (viz. movement of a phase
head that has subjected its complement to Transfer).
		 d.	 Non-phase-head LIs can only undergo X0-movement.
		 e.	 The complementarity of ph(r)asal-movement and head-movement is
derived (cf. Takano’s generalization).
		 f.	 All moved ph(r)ases constitute islands (the freezing effect).
		 g.	 The CED effect arises for moved subjects but not for in-situ subjects.
32.	 See also Narita (2012a) for the idea that the ESC may further constrain the possible structure
of idiom chunks (phrasal “listemes”).
	 Chapter 3.  Minimal head detection in projection-free syntax	 139
		 h.	 The CED effect arises for “high” adjuncts but not for “low” adjuncts (except
cases of ECM constructions).
		 i.	 The PSC (135) is derived, unifying the account of CED effects and more.
		 j.	 NS only generates SOs that constantly satisfy FI with regard to MHD (the
ban on exocentricity (24)).
		 k.	 The ESC provides a strong analytic means for the acquisition of LIs.
To the extent that the empirical payoffs summarized in (146) meet descriptive and
explanatory adequacy, the explanatory force of (145) is correspondingly corrobo-
rated. The overall conclusion, in a nutshell, is that the hypothesis of projection-
free syntax not only keeps more closely to the SMT but also achieves even richer
empirical coverage than theories of projection-bound syntax.
chapter 4
Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax
4.1	 Introduction
In Chapter 3, I constructed a theory of syntax that makes no recourse to pro-
jection or nonterminal symbols in characterizing the endocentricity of phrase
structure. Specifically, it was claimed that endocentricity/headedness reduces to
minimal search of LIs’ interpretable features for compositional interpretation at
the interfaces.
	(1)	
Minimal Head Detection (MHD):
		 For each SO Σ, define the most prominent LI within Σ as the head of Σ.
We saw that MHD derives the Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC), which
gives rise to recursive {H, XP} branching structures like the one in (3).
	(2)	
Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC):
		 Merge can only generate SOs whose head LI H is immediately detectable via
minimal search at Interpret/Spell-Out.
	(3)	
X
Y
Z
The following chapters will explore some important ramifications of the present
proposal. Specifically, the present chapter will discuss one of the fundamental op-
erations that take place in the mapping to PHON, linearization, which has been
assumed to make recourse to projection.
Presumably, the hierarchical, “2-dimensional” structure generated by nar-
row syntax (NS) is “unpronounceable,” due to the modality restriction imposed
by SM.1 Such an unpronounceable input must be transformed to a corresponding
1.	 Such use of words like “pronounce” is only metaphorical, and readers should bear in mind
that PHON is usable by SM not only for articulation/externalization but also for perception.
As Uriagereka (2008: 8) correctly points out, by positing a single interface-level PHON for both
the perception and articulation of phonetic sound, we are essentially subscribing to the theory
of so-called “analysis by synthesis.” See Halle & Stevens (1959, 1963) for earlier proposals, and
see Poeppel et al. (2008) and Bever & Poeppel (2010) for contemporary discussion.
142	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
­pronounceable output of some form, satisfying SM-interface conditions. Linearization
refers to the necessary phonological mapping of input SOs to corresponding se-
quences of LIs that are legible to SM. This component of Spell-Out would necessar-
ily involve violations of the Inclusiveness and No-Tampering Conditions, but this
much seems inevitable. This imperfect nature of the PHON-mapping is presum-
ably rooted in the fact that efficiency for the purpose of SM has only secondary
importance in the structuring of FL. This in turn seems to follow from one current
line of speculation on the evolution of language, which says that FL first evolved
primarily for individual thoughts (CI), only later being put to use in externalization
by SM (see Chomsky 2007a, c, 2008).
Interestingly, virtually all the past proposals on linearization were made in
the framework of labeled phrase structure. For example, the familiar directional-
ity parameter (head parameter) was the first proposal that clearly expressed the
crucial relevance of labeling/projections to linearization, in that it was couched in
X-bar-theoretic notions like head, complement and specifier, together with pro-
jections like XP and X′. Since its introduction by Chomsky (1981), various kinds
of directionality parameter have been explored by a number of researchers (see,
e.g., Epstein et al. 1998, Richards 2004, Fox & Pesetsky 2005 for current formu-
lations), but none of them is free from projection. Kayne’s (1994, 2004a, 2009,
2011) antisymmetry approach attempts to eliminate the necessity of a directionality
parameter in favor of the universal Spec-Head-Complement word order, but we
will also see in § 4.2 that various versions of Kayne’s antisymmetry make crucial
recourse to projection. Fukui & Takano (1998) put forward a different approach
to antisymmetry, exploring the possibility of universal Spec-Complement-Head
order, but their theory of linearization again makes crucial recourse to projection.2
All in all, the past proposals on linearization processes rely on the idea that the role of
projection at linearization is indispensable.3
2.	 Fukui & Takano’s proposal was that linearization uniformly maps the head-nonhead distinc-
tion between two Merge-mates to postcedence: if α projects over β, then {α, β} is mapped to a
string where β precedes α. Given that the head is by definition the element that projects over its
Spec and Complement, this linearization mechanism yields a universal Spec-Complement-Head
word order. Apparent “head-initial” Spec-Head-Complement order is derived by head-to-Spec
movement in their approach (cf. Takano 1996).
3.	 Marc Richards (p.c.) argues that his parametrized desymmetrization mechanism (Richards
2004, 2007a), akin to directionality parameter in spirit, achieves linearization without any re-
course to labeled phrase structure. While I agree in all respects with his criticism of the LCA
(and also Fox & Pesetsky’s 2005 mechanism of cyclic linearization), his alternative linearization
mechanism still makes recourse to the distinction between the predicate (his “V”) and the object
(his “O”), the precise definition of which, I suspect, will involve some mechanism that encodes
asymmetry between sister SOs, which would be more or less equivalent to nonterminal symbols
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 143
However, the absence of successful label-free proposals so far by no means
proves that projection-free theories of syntax can never approach the problem of
linearization. I will try to lay out in § 4.4 my own proposal regarding the issue of
linearization that makes no recourse to projection.
This chapter is organized as follows: First, I will argue in § 4.2 that Kayne’s
(1994) Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA) has no place in projection-free syn-
tax, despite various researchers’ attempts to revamp it (Chomsky 1994, 1995b,
Epstein et al. 1998, Uriagereka 1999, 2012, Moro 2000, Guimarães 2000, Nunes
2004, Jayaseelan 2008, Sheehan 2009, 2010, 2013a, b and Kayne 2009). In par-
ticular, § 4.2.1 and § 4.2.3 will discuss the empirical inadequacy of two different
accounts of the CED effect based on the LCA, Uriagereka’s (1999) and Sheehan’s
(2009, 2010, 2013a, b), that nevertheless exhibit certain similarity to the ESC pro-
posed in the previous chapter. § 4.2.4 will discuss a possible explanation of why
the LCA cannot arise in UG as a mechanism of linearization. My own proposal
on the projection-free theory of linearization will be discussed in § 4.4. § 4.5 will
conclude the chapter.
4.2	 Eradicating the LCA from the ESC
4.2.1	 Uriagereka’s LCA-based ESC
The ESC severely restricts the possible form of SOs to {H, α}, where H is a head
LI and α an SO. This leads to a recursive “fractal-like” pattern of the form in (3),
modulo phase-by-phase Transfer. Interestingly, this recursive H-α structure has
certain resemblance to what Uriagereka (1999) calls a Command-Unit, which he
claims is to be derived from a version of Kayne’s (1994) Linear Correspondence
Axiom (LCA).
To review, consider Uriagereka’s exposition of the LCA, which consists of two
axioms, summarized in (4).
	(4)	
Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA) (Kayne 1994; rephrased by Uriagereka
1999):
		 a.	 Base Step: If α c-commands β, then α precedes β.
		 b.	 Induction Step: If γ precedes β and γ dominates α, then α precedes β.
or projection. He argues that {V, O} is a prominent instance of symmetric structure that cannot
be properly dealt with by the LCA, but a similar question would be raised as to, e.g., {“S,” “v”},
where S is the external argument and “v” the phrase headed by v/v*, and correspondingly as to
why {“S,” “v”}, formally comparable to {V, O}, does not yield parametrized desymmetrization
(as it seems).
144	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
The base step (4a) maps the asymmetric c-command relation between two LIs, say
X and Y, to precedence (where “X precedes Y” is denoted by “X → Y”). For example,
(4a) maps the input representation in (5a) to a sequence of LIs, X → Y → Z → … ,
since X asymmetrically c-commands Y, Y asymmetrically c-commands Z … , etc.
Structures like (5a) are what Uriagereka calls Command-Units, where each in-
stance of merger takes one LI and one non-LI (phrase) as its input, and solely the
base step (4a) of the LCA suffices to determine the total linear ordering of the LIs.
On the other hand, for the LCA to linearize structures like (5b), where two phrases
are merged, recourse to the induction step (4b) is necessary, given that there is no
direct asymmetric c-command relation established between the LIs of one phrase
and those of the other. Thus, for example, X and Y in (5b) can be assigned a prece-
dence relation by (4b), thanks to the fact that the phrase {X, WP} asymmetrically
c-commands Y and dominates X.
	 (5)	a.	
X
Y
Z
		 b.	
X WP Y
Z
Uriagereka (1999) points out a fundamental problem with the induction step of
the LCA (4b), which is that it requires some stipulation to ensure an asymmetric
c-command relation between “sister” phrases that apparently c-command each
other. Kayne’s (1994) original solution is to incorporate the category-segment
distinction à la May (1985; see also Chomsky 1986a) into structural representa-
tions and stipulate that any specifier/adjunct merger splits the target category into
segments, rendering the X′-node (the lower segment of the category) invisible
for c-command. In a similar vein, Chomsky (1995b) proposes that nonminimal
nonmaximal projections of LIs are marked as invisible for linearization with the
LCA, among other operations (see Sheehan 2010, 2013a, b for similar approaches).
These proposals point to the fact that some formal manipulations of nonterminal
symbols or projection are necessary to make the induction step of the LCA (4b)
work properly. However, regarding these stipulations as unexplanatory, Uriagereka
(1999) claims that, in order to overcome this difficulty, we should eliminate the
induction step from the LCA altogether. His simplified version of the LCA, one
without the induction step (4b), is summarized in (6).
	(6)	
Uriagereka’s simplified LCA (Uriagereka 1999):
		If α c-commands β, then α precedes β.
He argues that (6) imposes a rigorous constraint on narrow syntactic derivation,
namely that any structure that departs from the unidirectional H-α branching like
(5a) is unlinearizable, and, as such, excluded. Therefore, the LCA severely restricts
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 145
the possible mode of application of Merge, in such a way that only structures that
comply with (6), i.e., Command-Units, can be generated.
Consequently, Uriagereka’s simplified LCA forces each application of Merge to
take one LI H and some other SO α as its input, leading to recursive H-α branching
structures. Let me refer to this constraint, which Uriagereka claims is derived from
his simplified LCA (4a), as the LCA-based ESC.
	(7)	
Uriagereka’s LCA-based ESC:
		 Merge can only generate SOs of the form {H, α}, where H precedes elements
contained in α at PHON.
(7) effectively bans phrasal SOs from merging with a Command-Unit SO, so there
can be no complex specifiers or adjuncts. Uriagereka argues that this is a sustain-
able conclusion if NS utilizes phase cyclicity (see also Chomsky 2000a, 2001, 2008),
an idea akin to the proposal I made in the previous chapter. Uriagereka specifically
claims that if the specifier or adjunct XP can constitute its own phase and strip off
its interior domain by Spell-Out, it leaves nothing but the label of the phrase for
further access in the derivational workspace.
	 (8)	a.	 XP
X YP
…
			 				b.	
XP
									 Transfer
Uriagereka’s work (1999, 2008, 2012) continues to assume labeled syntax, but the
basic effect of Spell-Out/Transfer is supposed to be similar to the one proposed in
the previous chapters: it makes the phase-internal elements inaccessible to later
computation, and thereby effectively reduces a complex phase to a simplex node
(or a “gigantic compound,” to adopt his metaphor). It is further stipulated that
such an “atomized” node can directly c-command the LIs within its sister for the
purpose of LCA-based linearization.
Consider, e.g., the familiar merger of the external argument to the edge of
v*′. Keeping to Uriagereka’s original hypothesis, I represent the relevant phrase-
markers by means of labeled tree diagrams and the DP-analysis of nominal phrases
à la Abney (1987) that he assumes.4
4.	 Given that Uriagereka assumes labeled phrase structure, the empirical fact that A-movement
can pied-pipe Spec-D does not force him to posit a separate functional category K. The cost is
of course that Uriagereka has to assume a mechanism of labeling/projection, a departure from
the SMT in the framework of bare phrase structure, as I argued in Chapter 3.
146	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(9)	 DP
D NP
+ v∗′
v∗ VP
V Obj
Such an instance of external merger would be a prima facie violation of the LCA-
based ESC, because of the phrasal “specifier,” the subject DP. However, it is assumed
in Uriagereka’s system that DPs (or any specifiers for that matter) can constitute
their own phases, and application of Transfer to the subject DP-phase will ter-
minate access to all the elements dominated by DP. The entire phase is thereby
reduced to a simplex node, the maximal label DP. It is further assumed that such a
“stranded” simplex label symbol can then be merged to the edge of v*. The relevant
derivation is summarized in (10):
	(10)	Noncomplement-reduction:
		a.	
Transfer applying to DP
DP
D NP
v∗′
v∗ VP
V Obj
		b.	DP	
EM
v∗′
v∗ VP
V Obj
		c.	 v∗P
DP v∗′
v∗ VP
V Obj
For ease of discussion, let me introduce some informal terminology and refer to
such an application of Transfer, which reduces phrasal specifiers and adjuncts
to just simplex Xmax label symbols, as noncomplement-reduction. For Uriagereka,
noncomplement-reduction is a necessary derivational step that renders phrasal
noncomplements compliant with his simplified LCA (6).
Assuming the equivalent of the PIC, Uriagereka claims that his LCA-based
ESC forces NS to execute noncomplement-reduction for all instances of “XP-YP”
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 147
merger, and that this correctly deduces the effect of Huang’s (1982) CED on speci-
fiers, as exemplified by (11) (see also Nunes & Uriagereka 2000).
	 (11)	 a.	*Whoi did [a picture of ti] cause the problem?
		 b.	*Of whomi did [a picture ti] cause the problem?
Then, it follows from Uriagereka’s LCA-based ESC that every noncomplement XP
(specifier or adjunct) should constitute an island for extraction.
Recall at this point that the previous chapter was devoted to advocating for the
ESC in (2) (reproduced here), which is totally independent of precedence relations
among LIs at PHON.
	(2)	
Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC):
		 Merge can only generate SOs whose head LI H is immediately detectable via
minimal search at Interpret/Spell-Out.
The similarity between Uriagereka’s account and my ESC-based account is obvious.
The two approaches share the idea that a constraint on structure-building­derives
the effect of Huang’s (1982) CED. Specifically for instances of XP-YP merger like
the one in (9), I proposed that cyclic Transfer at the K-phase-level eliminates K’s
interior and all the structural information associated with it, in effect reducing the
K-phase to a bare LI K. The derivation is schematically shown in (12):
	(12)	a.	
K
D NP
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
		
b.							
v∗
V Obj
Merge
			 K
		c.	
K
v∗
V Obj
Like Uriagereka, I claimed that Transfer of K’s interior effectively renders KP an
island for extraction. However, the ESC, established in Chapter 3, makes no re-
course to the LCA. It was rather deduced from MHD (1) serving for the consistent
satisfaction of Full Interpretation (FI). To the extent that Uriagereka’s LCA-based
alternative has some empirical appeal that overlaps with the LCA-free ESC articu-
lated in Chapter 3, whether or not the ESC should be ultimately attributed to the
LCA becomes an empirical question.
148	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
In the rest of this section, I will argue that the ESC makes correct predictions
regarding the attested CED effect only if the LCA is eliminated from the set of
UG-principles. That is, the LCA is simply incompatible with the ESC, as we will
see. I will then relate this important result to the broader conclusion that the LCA
has no place in projection-free syntax, despite Uriagereka’s (and in part Sheehan’s
2009, 2013a, b) argument to the contrary.
4.2.2	 The irrelevance of the LCA to the CED effect
The two versions of the ESC (my LCA-free one and Uriagereka’s LCA-based alter-
native) make different predictions about how syntax applies cyclic Transfer. Most
importantly, if we dissociate the ESC from the LCA, then not only noncomple-
ment-reduction but also what we may informally call “complement-reduction,” i.e.
cyclic Transfer of the “complement” XP, can make an instance of XP-YP merger
compliant with the ESC. For Uriagereka, noncomplement-reduction is the only
option whereby “XP-YP” merger can satisfy the linearization requirement im-
posed by the LCA. In LCA-free syntax, complement-reduction is as effective for
the satisfaction of the ESC as noncomplement-reduction. As for (9), complement-
reduction can be applied to eliminate the phase interior domain of the v*-phase
(VP) and reduce it to a simplex phase-head LI, which then can be merged with the
subject KP. The relevant derivation is summarized in (13):
	(13)	Complement-reduction:
		a.	 Subject
…
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
		b.	 Subject
...
v∗
Merge
		c.	
Subject
…
v∗
Thus, the two versions of the ESC make different predictions with regard to the
(un)availability of complement-reduction. Uriagereka’s LCA-based ESC predicts
noncomplement-reduction is the only option, since otherwise the requisite Spec-
Head-Complement word order cannot obtain, whereas the ESC in LCA-free syn-
tax freely entertains both complement- and noncomplement-reduction. In what
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 149
follows, we will review a number of cases where complement-reduction is crucial,
which suggests that the ESC should be dissociated from the LCA.
First of all, every noncomplement XP (specifier or adjunct) should constitute an
island for extraction under Uriagereka’s account of the CED. However, we have seen
that this prediction is too strong. Specifically, the in-situ external argument provides
bona fide counterevidence to that prediction. Here I reproduce some examples from
the previous chapter that show subextraction from an external argument.
	(14)	Japanese:
		a.	 Cleft
			 [Opj [John-ga	 tj okane-o	 karita	 koto]-ga	Mary-o	
				 John-nom		 money-acc borrowed nml -nom Mary-acc
			 kizutuketa 	no]-wa	 yakuza-karaj	 datta.
			 hurt 	 nml -top gangster-from cpl.past
			 ‘It was from a gangsterj [Opj that [that John borrowed money tj] hurt Mary].’
		b.	Tough-movement
			 yakuza-karai-ga	(Johnj-nitotte) [Opi [[[proj ti okane-o	karita
			 gangster-from-nom John-as.for	 money-acc borrowed
			 koto]-ga	 Mary-o	 kanasim-ase-teiru	 to]	 mitome] nikui].
			 fact -nom Mary-acc feel.sad-caus-pres-prog that admit	 hard
			 (Lit.) ‘[from a gangster]i is hard (for Johnj) to admit [that [(the fact) that
hej borrowed money ei] makes Mary sad].’
		c.	 Scrambling
			 sono hon-oi	 John-ga	[[Mary-ga	ti katta	koto]-ga	Bill-o
			 that book-acc John-nom	Mary-nom	bought nml -nom Bill-acc
			 kizutuketa to]	 omotteru.
			 hurt	 that think
			 ‘That booki, John thinks [that [that Mary bought ti] hurt Bill].’
	(15)	Russian: (Stepanov 2007: 91)
		a.	S	 kem	by	ty	
xotel	 čtoby	 govorit’	
bylo	
by	odno
			 with whom subj you wanted that-subj to-speak were subj one
			 udovol’stvie?
			 pleasure
			 (Lit.) ‘With whom would you want that [to speak __] were sheer pleasure?’
		 b.	 Čto	 by	 ty	 xotel	 čtoby	 kupit’ ne	 sostavljalo by	 nikakogo
			 what subj you wanted that-subj to-buy	 not constitute	 subj no 	
			 truda?
			 labor
			 (Lit.) ‘What would you want that [to buy __] would not be any trouble?’
150	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(16)	Turkish: (Stepanov 2007: 90, cited from Hankamer & Knecht 1976, Kural 1993,
Leyla Zidani-Eroǧlu, p.c.)
		a.	 [Opi [Ahmet-in	 ti git-me-si]-nin	 ben-i üz-dü-ǧ-ü]	 ev.
				 Ahmet-gen	go-inf-agr-gen I-acc sadden-past-comp-agr.house
			 (Lit.) ‘The house [which [that Ahmet went to __] saddened me].’
		b.	[Opi [pro [[ti anne-si]-ni	 herkes-le	 konus-tu-ǧ-u m
				 mother-age-gen	everyone-with	talk-past-comp-agr-acc
			 duy-du-ǧ-um]	 adam.
			 hear-past-comp-agr man
			 (Lit.) ‘The man [whose I heard [that [__ mother] talked to everyone]].’
Adopting the standard assumption that the external argument (sentential or not)
is base-generated in Spec-v*, these data provide examples of “transparent” non-
complements, which should have no place in Uriagereka’s LCA-based account.
In contrast, the LCA-free ESC readily allows complement-reduction as in (13),
which allows later subextraction of Op from the subject XP. A sketch of the relevant
derivation is reproduced in (17):
	(17)	a.	
Op
X
… tOp
…
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
		
b.	
Op X v∗
Merge
		
c.	
Op X
v∗
				d.	
Op
tOp X
v∗
Moreover, the application of complement-reduction to the v*-phase is a prerequi-
site for later subextraction from the subject as in (17d). Then, it is predicted that
complement-reduction at (17a) renders the relevant v*P-complement an island for
extraction. This prediction is reproduced in (18).
	 (18)	 * … Op … X … {[Subj … tOp …], [v* … tX … ]}
			
(19) reproduces a relevant minimal pair from Japanese cleft constructions ((19a) =
(14a)).
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 151
	(19)	Japanese: Cleft and scrambling
		a.	 [Opj [John-ga	 tj okane-o	karita	koto]-ga	
Bill-o	 kizutuketa
				 John-nom		 money-acc borrowed nml -nom Bill-acc hurt
			 no]-wa	 Mary-karaj	 datta.
			 nml -top Mary-from cpl.past
			 ‘It was from Maryj [Opj that [that John borrowed money tj] hurt Bill].’
		 b.	*?[Opj Bill-oi	 [John-ga	 tj	 okane-o	karita	koto]-ga	ti
					 Bill-acc		John-nom		 money-acc borrowed nml -nom
			 kizutuketa no]-wa	 Mary-karaj	 datta.
			 hurt	 nml -top Mary-from cpl.past
			 ‘It was from Maryj [Opj that Billi, [that John borrowed money tj] hurt ti].’
This state of affairs is readily predicted by the ESC in LCA-free syntax: subextrac-
tion of Op from the subject CP entails that complement-reduction has applied to
the v*-phase at the point of external merger of the CP, thus even scrambling can-
not apply to elements within the v*-phase. By contrast, Uriagereka’s LCA-based
proposal never predicts any “complement island” of this sort, which leads to the
conclusion that the ESC dissociated from the LCA makes an empirically superior
analysis of the CED effect for subjects.
Moreover, just like Uriagereka’s LCA-based analysis, the LCA-free ESC readily
predicts the freezing effect, as we have seen in Chapter 3. In bare phrase structure,
the movement transformation is reduced to IM. Recall that the ESC predicts that
only simplex LIs can undergo IM (see § 3.4.2).
	(20)	 α
… H …
IM H α
… H …
Here, H can be either a non-phase-head LI or a phase-head LI. Specifically, accord-
ing to the ESC, all instances of apparent phrasal movement must be analyzed as
IM of a phase-head LI that Transfers its phase-interior domain. The freezing effect
(Ross 1974, Wexler & Culicover 1980, Culicover 1982, Chametzky 2000, Corver
2006 among many others) is thus derived from the ESC.
	(21)	Freezing Effect:
		 A moved SO constitutes an island for extraction.
This is simply because all the moved ph(r)ases must have become simplex LIs by
means of cyclic Transfer before the application of IM.
Note that the freezing effect can be derived from either the LCA-based or
the LCA-free ESC, given that IM always relocates an SO into a noncomplement
152	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
position. However, these two versions of the ESC make different predictions about
unmoved noncomplements and moved noncomplements. Suppose we have an ex-
ternally merged specifier XP (say an external argument) which is to be dislocated to
some higher specifier position. In Uriagereka’s (1999) LCA-based system, this XP
undergoes noncomplement-reduction and becomes a simplex node before being
externally merged to the base specifier position. Thus, the XP should constitute an
island for extraction, regardless of whether it moves later or not. However, in the
LCA-free approach sketched in Chapter 3, the option of complement-reduction
can keep the relevant specifier XP phrasal at the point of EM, as we have seen
above. The only restriction imposed by my LCA-free approach is that this XP can-
not undergo IM unless it is reduced to a simplex node by means of cyclic Transfer
before moving to some higher position. Thus, it predicts that the freezing effect
arises only for moved noncomplements.
A contrast relevant to these predictions arises in pre- vs. post-verbal subject
KPs in Spanish (see Uriagereka 1988, Gallego 2007, 2010 for discussion). The data
below show that subextraction from post-verbal external arguments is strongly
preferred to subextraction from preverbal ones.
	(22)	Spanish: transparent postverbal subject (Uriagereka 1988: 116; see also Gallego
2007, 2010)
		 a.	 *[de qué	 conferenciantes]i te	 parece	 [que [las propuestas
					 of what speakers	 cl-to-you seem.3sg that the proposals
			 ti] me	 van	 a	 impresionar].
				 cl-to-me go-3pl to impress
			 ‘Of which speakers does it seem to you that [the proposals t] will impress
me?’
		b.	
(?)[de qué	 conferenciantes]i	 te	 parece	 [que me
					 of	 what speakers	 cl-to-you	seem.3sg		that cl-to-me
			 van	 a	 impresionar [las 	propuestas ti]].
			 go-3pl to impress	 the proposals
			 ‘Of which speakers does it seem to you that will impress me [the propos-
als t]?’
There are arguments that the postverbal subject in these examples stays in the base-
generated Spec-v* position whereas the preverbal subject moves to Spec-T (see
Uriagereka 1988, Belletti 2001, and Gallego 2007, 2010). Then, the relevant contrast
in (22) should be attributed to the freezing effect on the raised noncomplement
KP (the external argument in (22a)), which arises only in the ESC in an LCA-free
world. Uriagereka himself admits that examples like (23), carefully constructed
in a way that clearly shows the transparency of in-situ external arguments, are
marginally acceptable.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 153
	(23)	Spanish: transparent postverbal subject (Uriagereka 2012)
		Qué	partidoi 	 te	 hizo	 gritar	 [(el)	 que hayas	 perdido ti]
		 What game	 you 	made 	scream		 the that have.you 	lost
		 ‘What game has it made you scream that you lost?’
Uriagereka (2012: 102) notes, “My feeling hasn’t changed in two decades: it is not
perfect, but it is also not as bad as it would be if the subject were in its canonical
subject position.” I take the relative acceptability of relevant examples to corrobo-
rate the point that we should attribute the contrast in (22) to the derivationally-
arising freezing effect, not to the inherent noncomplement status of the in-situ
subject.5 Here too, then, the LCA-free ESC provides a better prediction of the scope
of the freezing effect than Uriagereka’s approach.
Furthermore, the empirical inadequacy of the LCA-based ESC appears most
robustly in the treatment of adjunction. The null hypothesis based on Uriagereka’s
set of assumptions is that there is no XP-YP merger, regardless of whether the
merger is an instance of “substitution” (argument-merger) or adjunction. Consider,
for example, adjunction of an adverbial because-clause in (24):
	 (24)	 The man criticized Mary [because she failed the exam].
Adverbial clauses like the one in (24) are phrasal, so external merger of an adverbial
clause and the main clausal spine would count as an instance of XP-YP merger,
necessitating Transfer of either one of the XPs. If noncomplement-reduction is
chosen, the adverbial because-clause is reduced to an LI.
	(25)	a.	
C
T
K[uCase]
the man
v∗
criticize Mary
				b.	
because
…
As long as the Transfer domain within the adjunct (here the complement of because)
does not contain any uninterpretable features, then it is a convergent domain. It
should thus be able to constitute a phase. In conformity with the ESC, application
of noncomplement-reduction in effect enables the external merger in (25).
5.	 This conclusion is different from the one Uriagereka draws. He rather regards the relative
degradedness, however weak, of examples like (23) as evidence for CED effects on noncomple-
ments. Here I adopt a more conventional approach and regard marginal acceptability as some-
thing that should be attributed to some extra-grammatical (semantic-pragmatic) factors, not
derived from the failure of narrow-syntactic computations.
154	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Noncomplement-reduction is presumably responsible for the CED effect for
adjuncts (see Cattell 1976, Huang 1982, Chomsky 1986a, Uriagereka 1999), as
suggested by Uriagereka (1999) and Nunes & Uriagereka (2000).
	 (26)	 a.	 *This is the girli that John failed the test [because he was thinking about ti].
		 b.	 *I know whati the man criticized Mary [after she said ti].
		 c.	 *It was this flawi that the man criticized Mary [due to ti].
Uriagereka and Nunes claim that the CED effect in these examples can be readily
attributed to the obligatoriness of noncomplement-reduction for these adjuncts.
In § 3.6.4, I essentially endorsed the same approach to the relevant data, and at-
tributed the unacceptability of the examples in (26) to noncomplement-reduction.
As we have seen, however, not all adjuncts exhibit CED effects (Chomsky 1982,
Boeckx 2003, Truswell 2007a, b, 2011 among many others).
	 (27)	 (Truswell 2007a, b, 2011)
		a.	 Which booki did John design his garden [after reading ti]?
		b.	Whati did John arrive [whistling ti]?
		c.	 Whati did John drive Mary crazy [whistling ti]?
		d.	Whati did John drive Mary crazy [trying to fix ti]?
		e.	 Whati are you working so hard [in order to achieve ti]?
		f.	 Whoi did John travel to England [to make a sculpture of ti]?
		g.	 Whose attentioni is John jumping up and down [in order to attract ti]?
		h.	Whati did Christ die [in order to save us from ti]?
		i.	 Whati did you tap your nose [in order to signal ti to Mary]?
		j.	 Whati did you come in [to talk to us about ti] today?
	 (28)	 a.	 This is the booki that John designed the garden [after reading ti].
		 b.	 It was Hey Judei that John arrived [whistling ti].
		 c.	 I bet I know whati John drove Mary crazy [trying to fix ti].
		 d.	 It is this goali that students are working so hard [in order to achieve ti].
		 e.	 Mary told me that Sam is whoi John traveled to England [to make a sculp-
ture of ti].
		f.	 There’s the taxii that John was jumping up and down [in order to attract ti].
		 g.	 This is the matteri that I came in [to talk to you about ti] today.
These examples transparently show that UG should not characterize adjuncts as ex-
ceptionless islands, contra Huang (1982), Uriagereka (1999), Nunes & Uriagereka
(2000), Chomsky (2004), and Stepanov (2007).
In terms of the ESC discussed in the previous chapter, these examples show that
the relevant adjuncts are allowed to avoid undergoing noncomplement-­reduction
at the point of adjunction. Readers are referred to § 3.6.4 for the proposal that the
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 155
contrast between these two classes of adjuncts arises as a function of the structural
height of the adjunction sites: unlike the finite adverbial clauses like the one headed
by because, which I propose adjoin to positions higher than v, these transparent
“low adjuncts” are allowed to adjoin to positions lower than v. I argued that this
difference would allow us to draw the cut between the class of “high” adjuncts,
exhibiting CED effects, and the one of “low” adjuncts, exempt from CED effects.
Now, what happens if we employ Uriagereka’s LCA-based ESC in the discus-
sion above? Recall that under Uriagereka’s system, noncomplement-reduction is
driven by the LCA-based linearization requirement at PHON. It essentially applies
to reduce adjuncts to simplex nodes that can asymmetrically c-command the other
LIs. Note that the LCA should always map these asymmetric c-command relations
to precedence, thus it should be the case that any adjunct always precedes the LIs
within the relevant Command-Unit it is adjoining to. That is, adjunction should
always be “to the left.” This consequence, unavoidable if the ESC is tied to the
LCA, is highly problematic in its empirical import. First of all, all apparent cases
of “rightward adjunction” that surface with the H(ead)-C(omplement)-A(djunct)
order (as in, e.g., John [H called] [C Mary] [A before Sue came] in English) must be
reanalyzed either as (i) involving the relevant adjunct as a complement, (ii) involv-
ing movement of a constituent comprising H-C over (left-adjoined) A, or (iii) in-
volving “XP”-movement of C over A and “head”-movement of H over A (see § 2.8
for the analysis of head-movement in bare phrase structure).
	(29)	a.	
(H)
C A
		b.	
X
H-C
A tX
		c.	
F
H C
A
t
C
t
H
156	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Advocates of the LCA thus bear a serious burden of proof: they must show that all
apparent cases of rightward adjunction are best analyzed as involving one of these
three structural representations, and moreover that such structural analyses can
be naturally acquired by children through impoverished primary linguistic data.
We have never seen in the LCA literature any serious justification of such ad hoc
reanalyses, which is already indicative of the empirically inadequate nature of the
LCA. See Fukui & Takano (1998), Ackema & Neeleman (2002), Richards (2004),
Abels & Neeleman (2009), Narita (2010) and Narita & Fujita (2010) for further
discussion.
Moreover, advocates of the LCA must be ready to allow massive parametric
variation with regard to the availability of movement of the sort in (29). It has been
known since Fukui (1993) that the directionality of adjunction rather strongly
correlates with the value of directionality parameter of the language in question:
Rightward adjunction is quite free in head-initial languages like English, whereas
leftward adjunction is freely available in head-final languages like Japanese.6
	 (30)	 a.	 John hugged Mary [passionately] [without hesitation] [out of love] ….
		 b.	 *John … [passionately] [without hesitation] [out of love] hugged Mary.
		 c.	 John-ga 	
… 	 [aizyoo-kara] [tamerai-naku]	 [zyoonetuteki-ni]
			 John-nom		 love-from	 hesitation-without		 passionately
			 Mary-o 	 dakisimeta.
			 Mary-acc hugged
		 d.	 *John-ga	 Mary-o	 dakisimeta [aizyoo-kara] [tamerai-naku]
				John-nom Mary-acc hugged	 love-from	 hesitation-without
			 [zyoonetuteki-ni] … .
			 passionately
Thus, if advocates of the LCA manage to capture the pattern in (30a) by either of
the analyses in (29), they must also account for why the same analysis is unavail-
able in a comparable “head-final” language.
Furthermore, even if we tentatively grant that these challenges can be met in
some way or another, further considerations quickly show that the derivations in
(29) make wrong predictions as to the islandhood of Complements. In Uriagereka’s
system, it is necessary to apply Transfer to Complement in any of the options
shown in (29). This should mean that any Complement in the Head-Complement-
Adjunct word order should constitute an island for extraction, a clearly incorrect
result in face of examples like (31).
6.	 Examples of rightward adjunction as in (30d) are marginally acceptable if they are un-
derstood as involving so-called “right dislocation,” a paratactic construction which exhibits a
number of peculiar properties. See Kuno (1978), Simon (1989), Endo (1996), Tanaka (2001),
and Kato (2007) for analyses of this construction in Japanese.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 157
	(31)	a.	 Whati did Mary [H write] [C a book about ti] [A before she became a
linguist]?
		b.	Whoi did you [H find] [C the letter to ti] [A before Mary received it]?
Countless other examples of this sort can be produced easily. These examples
transparently falsify the analysis in (29a), and those in (29b) and (29c) would also
be ruled out unless we further stipulate a considerable amount of “look-ahead”
A- and A′-movement that must apply before the Transfer of Complement. In such
a system, moreover, the A- vs. A′- distinction of movement cannot be attributed
to the distinction between phase-internal and interphasal movement as suggested
by Chomsky (2007a, 2008), thus further complication seems unavoidable. I can-
not provide a rigorous proof that no such analysis is tenable, but it is advocates of
the LCA who should bear the burden of argument that such ad hoc analyses are
indeed on the right track.
4.2.3	 Sheehan’s projection-based resuscitation of Uriagereka’s LCA
The discussion so far indicates that the ESC-based account of CED effects, though
first envisaged by Uriagereka (1999) and Nunes & Uriagereka (2000) as a corol-
lary of the LCA, can be best achieved in syntax without the LCA. I proposed in
Chapter 3 that the ESC should be alternatively deduced from the overarching
hypothesis that there is no mechanism of projection in bare phrase structure.
Interestingly, Sheehan (2010, 2013b) takes a different approach to resuscitat-
ing the LCA-based account of CED effects. Instead of eradicating the LCA, she
contends that Uriagereka’s simplified LCA should be supplemented by a specific
copy theory of labeling.7 She puts forward the following set of assumptions:
	 (32)	 a.	 The label X of an SO Σ is literally a copy of the head X of Σ.
		 b.	 C-command is defined in such a way that the label X of Σ by itself
c-commands the LIs within the sister of Σ.
		 c.	 Problematic labels/copies are deleted at PF as a last resort in order to
enable LCA-based linearization.
		 d.	 PF-deletion of labels/copies is governed by some economy principle à
la Nunes (2004) that favors deletion of lower copies over higher copies.
Consider, e.g., the following labeled tree diagrams, which according to Sheehan
represent an externally merged head-final and head-initial specifier XP of ZP. As
is a familiar move in the literature of the LCA, Sheehan assumes that the sur-
face head-final word order Complement-Head is derived from the underlying
7.	 The idea that labeling really is copying of head LIs goes back to Chomsky (1994, 1995b).
158	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
head-initial Head-Complement by moving Complement to the specifier of Head.
Kayne (1994) proposes that c-selection forces ubiquitous roll-up complement-
to-specifier movement in head-final languages, a proposal adopted by Sheehan
(2010, 2013b).8,9,10
	 (33)	a.	 Z
X
Y X
X Y
Z
Z W
W …
8.	 Of course, their recourse to c-selection speaks directly against Chomsky’s (2004: 112–113)
idea that c-selection and subcategorization are reducible to post-NS s-selection, and thus
c-selection plays no role in NS (see also Pesetsky 1982). See also § 5.2.1 and § 5.2.3.3.
9.	 Note that Uriagereka’s system makes an apparently wrong prediction that this obligatory
complement-to-specifier movement should render every complement an island for extraction.
Sheehan (2010, 2013b) attempts to avoid this problem in an interesting way but unsuccessfully,
as we will see shortly.
10.	 In contrast, Sheehan (2013a) explores the hypothesis that c-selection has an exceptional ability
to override the asymmetric c-command-based linearization. Her “Revised LCA” is given below.
	 (i)	 Sheehan’s (2013a) Revised LCA:
		a.	
If a category A c-commands and c-selects a category B, then A precedes or follows
B at PF.
		b.	
If no order is specified between A and B even transitively by (a), then A precedes B
at PF if A asymmetrically c-commands B.
(a) takes care of the Head-Complement or Complement-Head order, where c-selection typically
applies by assumption. Thus, it effectively resurrects directionality parameters, while reducing
the recourse to asymmetric c-command to a peripheral, “last resort” phenomenon (b) (as explic-
itly remarked by Sheehan 2013a: 376: “I therefore adopt a weaker version of the LCA whereby
asymmetric c-command determines linear order only as a last resort”). In this manner, Sheehan
(2013) clearly gave up her hope to preserve Kayne’s (1994) antisymmetry, namely the universal
Spec-Head-Complement word order emerging as a correlate of asymmetric c-command. This
is another indication that the simple observation that there are head-initial and head-final lan-
guages speaks against the essence of the LCA.
	 Incidentally, Sheehan’s (2013a) move of reducing Kaynean antisymmetry is in part un-
derstandable, because her goal in the 2013a paper was not so much to defend the LCA as
to extend her copy theory of labeling. However, as argued extensively in the present work,
notions of labels and projection have no role to play in bare phrase structure/projection-free
syntax. Moreover, most of the criticisms discussed below will directly apply to Sheehan’s (2013a)
“Revised LCA” as well.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 159
		b.	 Z
X
X Y
Z
Z W
W ...
The nodes marked by strikethrough indicate the copies of LIs/labels that undergo
deletion at PF. Sheehan specifically proposes that, thanks to (32c), one of the labels
that symmetrically c-commands some other LI/label is deleted at PF. This copy-
deletion process prefers to apply to “bar-level” copies rather than to “XP-level”
copies by assumption (32d), thus the intermediate label Z rather than the maximal
X label is deleted at PF. By (32b), the label X of XP can directly c-command Z and
W in (33a/b), and thus the LCA gives rise to the ordering X → Z→W → . . . at PF. For
the head-final specifier XP in (33a), the complement-to-specifier movement of Y
enables Y to asymmetrically c-command X, leading to Y → X at PF. Sheehan argues
that the combination of these two instructions is sufficient to get the total linear
ordering Y → X → Z → W → . . . , and therefore that noncomplement-reduction is
not forced by the LCA to apply to head-final specifiers. Note that the situation
is different for head-initial specifiers like XP in (33b). Here, the two comparable
linearization instructions, X → Y and X → Z → W → . . . , are still insufficient to de-
rive the total ordering, hence structures like (33b) are not linearizable in terms
of the LCA. Sheehan claims that Uriagereka-type noncomplement-reduction is
thus forced to apply to head-initial specifiers. This way, Sheehan draws the con-
clusion that the CED effect due to forced noncomplement-reduction arises only
for externally merged head-initial noncomplements. Her system thus can permit
acceptable cases of subextraction from subjects in Japanese (e.g., (14) above) and
other head-final languages reported in the literature (see Stepanov 2007), whereas
the canonical CED effect for subjects in head-initial languages like English is still
correctly derived from noncomplement-reduction.
Sheehan’s label-based resuscitation of the LCA makes an interesting contrast
with my eradication of the LCA from the ESC. In what follows, I would like to
mention some problems related to Sheehan’s approach.
First of all, because Sheehan advocates for the LCA, her theory inherits all the
empirical problems attributed to the LCA. For example, she has to face serious
problems like those regarding rightward adjunction discussed above (see Sheehan
2013b: § 6 for some relevant discussion).
Second, Sheehan’s prediction that Uriagereka-type noncomplement-reduction
obligatorily applies to head-initial specifiers upon EM is empirically too strong.
160	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
For illustration, recall the Spanish data in (34)–(35) repeated here, which show
that subextraction from post-verbal external arguments is strongly preferred to
subextraction from preverbal ones.
	(34)	Spanish: transparent postverbal subject (Uriagereka 1988: 116; see also Gallego
2007, 2010)
		 a.	 *[de qué	 conferenciantes]i te	 parece	 [que [las propuestas
					of what speakers	 cl-to-you seem.3sg that the proposals
			 ti] me	 van	 a 	impresionar].
				 cl-to-me go-3pl to impress
			 ‘Of which speakers does it seem to you that [the proposals t] will impress
me.’
		b.	
(?)[de qué	 conferenciantes]i	 te	 parece	 [que me
					 of	what speakers	 cl-to-you	seem.3sg	 that cl-to-me
			 van	 a	 impresionar [las propuestas ti]].
			 go-3pl to impress	 the proposals
			 ‘Ofwhichspeakersdoesitseemtoyouthatwillimpressme[theproposalst].’
	(35)	Spanish: transparent postverbal subject (Uriagereka 2012)
		Qué	partidoi te	 hizo	 gritar	 [(el)	 que hayas	 perdido ti]
		 What game	 you made scream	 the that have.you lost
		 ‘What game has it made you scream that you lost?’
Spanish is a head-initial language, thus Sheehan’s theory predicts that specifiers in
this language undergo noncomplement-reduction upon EM and become islands
for subextraction. External argument KPs should constitute islands under the stan-
dard assumption that they are base-generated at Spec-v*, but the acceptability of
(34b) and (35) clearly shows that the external argument in the postverbal subject
position (in-situ Spec-v*, as argued by Gallego 2007, 2010) allows subextraction,
contra Sheehan’s prediction.
Last but not least, the central issue is again that reference to projection is a de-
parture from the SMT in bare phrase structure: recall the discussion in Chapter 3.
Indeed, the assumptions which Sheehan adopts in (32) are technical complica-
tions that cannot be reasonably sustained in the pursuit of bare phrase structure.
Labeled tree-diagrams are just informal proxies for rigorous set-theoretic repre-
sentations, no matter how much more familiar the former are than the latter, after
more than a half-century of use by linguists. No labeled trees can be generated in
bare phrase structure where the sole structure-building operation is recursively
applicable Merge, just a set-formation operation. Cast in a more accurate set-
theoretic representation, the structures in (33) are nothing more than (36), where
no natural places for nonterminal symbols (projection) are provided:
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 161
	 (36)	 a.	 {{Y, {X, Y}}, {Z, {W, …}}}
		 b.	 {{X, Y}, {Z, {W, …}}}
Nonetheless, it is crucial to Sheehan’s approach that LIs can extend their c-com-
mand domain beyond their sisters through the medium of copies that are as-
signed (as nonterminal symbols) to certain complex syntactic objects (her (32a)
and (32b)). Sheehan (2010, 2013b) proposes that her “projection algorithm” (37)
can derive the effect of (32a) and (32b):
	 (37)	 If X selects and merges with Y then copy (the interpretable/unvalued features
of) X to dominate {X, Y}.
However, it is not clear where X should be copied to, nor whether this copying
process is achieved by IM or a totally different operation. No further exposition
(nor justification) is provided in Sheehan (2013b) as to the structural relation
R (called “dominate”) between the copy of (interpretable/unvalued features of)
X and the syntactic object {X, Y}, nor are we told how R can ensure that X di-
rectly c-commands Z and W in structures like {{X, Y}, {Z, {W, …}}} (=(36b)).
Some stipulative complication of the definitions of labels and c-command is
unavoidable.11
This familiar problem is by no means unique to Sheehan, but rather it is shared
by most approaches that make use of representational labels/projections. I believe
that this very difficulty vindicates the theoretical move toward eliminating repre-
sentational labels from the theory of syntax (see Chapter 3; see also Collins 2002,
Seely 2006, Chomsky 2004, 2007a, 2008, Boeckx 2009, 2014, and Narita 2009a).
In particular, the following proposition, a direct consequence of projection-free
syntax, strongly contributes to the simplification of the theory of syntax.
	 (38)	 In projection-free syntax, there can be no syntactic relation R that holds
between the projected/copied “label” symbol X of an SO Σ and any SO
contained within Σ (“c-command,” “dominance,” etc.).
11.	 Note incidentally that Sheehan’s (2009, 2010, 2013a, b) attempt to resuscitate the LCA by
means of the copy theory of labeling is partially motivated by her desire to capture (syntactically)
a generalization known as the Final-over-Final Constraint (FOFC) (see Biberauer et al. 2008,
Sheehan 2009, 2010, 2013a, b).
	 (i)	 Final-Over-Final Constraint (FOFC) (Biberauer et al. 2008: 97):
If α is a head-initial phrase and β is a phrase immediately dominating α, then β must
be head-initial. If α is a head-final phrase, and β is a phrase immediately dominating α,
then β can be head-initial or head-final.
However, given that there exists a simple and plausible parsing-based account of the FOFC effect
by Cecchetto (2007, 2013), no recourse to the LCA is necessary, contra these authors’ claims.
162	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
4.2.4	 Conclusion: The LCA has no place in projection-free syntax
It was Uriagereka (1999) who first ingeniously proposed a cyclicity-based ac-
count of Huang’s (1982) CED. However, it was argued in this section that, despite
Uriagereka’s claim to the contrary, the model of cyclic Transfer can give a de-
scriptively adequate account of the CED effect only if the ESC is dissociated from
the LCA. In addition to various problems inherent to the LCA observed in the
literature (see Fukui & Takano 1998, Ackema & Neeleman 2002, Richards 2004,
Abels & Neeleman 2009, Narita 2010, and Narita & Fujita 2010 to name just a few),
I provided various empirical generalizations and arguments that further support
an LCA-free approach to the CED effect proposed in Chapter 3. In a nutshell,
then, a full-fledged account of CED effects in terms of the PIC can survive only
in LCA-free syntax.
This conclusion leaves us with the choice between the ESC in LCA-free syntax or
LCA-bound syntax without the ESC. At this point, let us come back to Uriagereka’s
(1999) criticism of the original LCA (Kayne 1994), which is repeated here:
	(4)	
Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA) (Kayne 1994; rephrased by Uriagereka
1999)
		 a.	 Base Step: If α c-commands β, then α precedes β.
		 b.	 Induction Step: If γ precedes β and γ dominates α, then α precedes β.
Uriagereka points out that only stipulations can assure asymmetric c-command re-
lations between sister nonterminals, which are apparently required for the induction
step to work. Reference to labels/nonterminal symbols has been the major form of
stipulation to this effect, be it the category-segment distinction among nonterminals
as in Kayne (1994), or the invisibility of nonminimal-nonmaximal projections as
in Chomsky (1995b). Then, Kayne’s version of the LCA is bound to be a departure
from the SMT (as correctly pointed out by Chomsky 2004: 110 among others), to the
extent that reference to nonterminal symbols (projection) is so. In fact, Kayne him-
self seems to be in agreement with this criticism. Thus, he notes in his 2009 paper,
“Full integration of the LCA with bare phrase structure will require reformulating
the LCA without recourse to non-terminals” (Kayne 2009: note 8). I suspect that
this problem eventually convinced him to decide to dispense with the LCA in his
account of antisymmetry in Kayne (2011), as we will review shortly in § 4.3.
Recall also that Uriagereka’s attempt to revamp the LCA is motivated as a way
to overcome stipulative reference to nonterminal symbols (projections) inherent
to Kayne’s original LCA. In this light, Sheehan’s unsuccessful attempt to resuscitate
Uriagereka’s simplified LCA by adding another set of projection-based stipulations
is plainly putting things backward. Uriagereka’s solution was to eliminate its in-
duction step (4b) and let Transfer “atomize” phases to simplex LIs, an idea that my
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 163
proposal in Chapter 3 fundamentally shares. However, I have argued here that it
is undesirable to import cyclic Spell-Out into LCA-bound syntax, a failure that we
successfully overcame by exploring alternative deductions of the ESC from the in-
terplay of MHD and the foundational principle of FI. To the extent that Uriagereka
is right in pointing out that cyclic Transfer/Spell-Out is necessary to sever the LCA
from stipulative reference to nonterminal symbols, we can draw a much stronger
conclusion, which is that the LCA has in fact no place in projection-free syntax. In
contrast, the discussion in Chapter 3 shows that the theory of bare phrase struc-
ture, if (and only if) dissociated from the LCA, can also be a theory of projection-
free syntax. Both empirical coverage and theory-internal simplicity achieved by
projection-free syntax are urging us to explore it, and, therefore, LCA-free syntax.
In a nutshell, the conclusion is that the LCA is unsustainable as a theory of
phonological linearization. This leaves us with the question of why the LCA must
be wrong, i.e., why the FL is designed in such a way that it can never accommodate
the LCA as a possible principle of linearization. This question may be still pressing,
given that the LCA, despite its empirical inadequacy discussed in this section as
well as in Fukui & Takano (1998), Ackema & Neeleman (2002), Richards (2004),
Abels & Neeleman (2009), Narita (2010), and Narita & Fujita (2010), has some
intuitive appeal to many researchers. Importantly, Uriagereka’s criticism again pro-
vides a necessary component of the principled answer to this question: no stipu-
lation involving nonterminal symbols/projection should be available in minimal
syntax, and, therefore, the LCA (4) is plainly unformulable.
This is a strong argument against Kayne’s original LCA, as well as Sheehan’s,
but it still leaves us with Uriagereka’s simplified LCA, which makes little re-
course to nonterminal symbols/projection. To make sense of the unavailability
of Uriagereka’s LCA, it should be noted that reference to asymmetric c-command
relations still constitutes a necessary component of Uriagereka’s LCA. However,
whether asymmetric c-command is available as a relation in syntax is question-
able. In fact, Chomsky (2008: 141) suggests that c-command may be a dispensable
notion, and that various considerations that used to build on c-command, such
as Agree and also some aspects of binding, can be reduced to minimal search for
establishing probe-goal relations. Plausibly, then, the notion of “c-command” is
reduced to just an informal cover term referring to a certain structural configura-
tion, with no real theoretical significance in syntax. This might provide an answer
to the question of why Uriagereka’s LCA fails: there is no notion of c-command,
and therefore Uriagereka’s LCA is unavailable.12
12.	 However, it is arguably the case that Uriagereka’s LCA is a theory of linearization that is
simple enough to reformulate without recourse to c-command. See § 4.4 for relevant discussion.
See also Uriagereka (2012).
164	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
I would also like to point out that there is another ground for the hypothesis
that asymmetric c-command cannot figure in the theory of linearization. Recall
that the ESC generates unidirectional H-α branching of the form {X, {Y, {Z, . . . }}}.
Importantly, it should be always the case that the most deeply embedded constitu-
ent in such a branching structure should assume a structure of the form {X, Y},
where both X and Y are LIs. X and Y c-command each other, so there is no asym-
metric c-command available for this structure to be linearized in terms of any ver-
sion of the LCA. More generally, any structure building in the framework of bare
phrase structure should start by merging two LIs. Indeed, symmetric structures
of the form {X, Y} are bound to be generated in each phase, and hence, LIs in each
phase cannot be exhaustively characterized in terms of asymmetric c-command.
A possible way to accommodate the merger of two LIs under LCA-bound
syntax is suggested by Guimarães (2000) and Kayne (2009). They argue that one
option for Merge is the direct formation of a singleton set {X}, and that the sin-
gleton-formation can be reasonably adopted for the purpose of exorcizing sym-
metric {X, Y} structures: thus, {{X}, Y} or {X, {Y}} is sufficiently asymmetrical to
ensure asymmetric c-command between X and Y. Although this approach might
technically save the mechanism of LCA-based linearization, further stipulations
are necessary to ensure that all instances of merger of two LIs are mediated by the
singleton-set formation. See Kayne (2009) and Fukui (2011) for some relevant
discussion. See also Moro (1997a, 2000) and Narita & Fukui (2012) for different
approaches to symmetric structures.
To conclude, I argue that the following three premises are sufficient to exclude
the LCA on principled grounds: there is no relation of c-command available in
syntax; symmetric SOs of the form {X, Y} are unavoidably generated; and, most
importantly, syntax assumes no nonterminal symbols/projections.
4.3	 Eradicating antisymmetry from the ESC
4.3.1	 Independence of antisymmetry and the LCA
We saw in the previous section that the ESC can give rise to empirically correct
consequences only in LCA-free syntax, and thus the LCA cannot be the correct
linearization mechanism in our theory of bare phrase structure. At this point, it
should be noted that the eradication of the LCA does not necessarily entail the
eradication of antisymmetry in the sense of Kayne (1994).
According to Kayne (2009), “a relatively weaker interpretation of antisymme-
try has it that no two human languages can be mirror images of one another, i.e.,
no pair of languages can have the property that one is the exact mirror image of
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 165
the other (in the sense that each grammatical sentence of one has a grammatical
counterpart in the other that is its mirror image, counting by morphemes, say).”
The consequence of this weak interpretation of antisymmetry is that for any pos-
sible I-language L, there will be no “mirror-image” language L′ of L where each
grammatical sentence of L can find its mirror-image counterpart as a grammatical
sentence of L′. Let us refer to this conjecture as weak antisymmetry.
	(39)	Weak Antisymmetry:
		 No two natural languages can be mirror images of one another.
Weak antisymmetry can be counterposed to (40), a stronger interpretation of an-
tisymmetry discussed in Kayne (2009):
	(40)	Strong Antisymmetry:
		 If some subtree (with both hierarchical structure and precedence relations
specified) is well-formed in some human language, then its mirror image is
well-formed in no human language.
Kayne’s (1994) LCA is an ingeniously formulated principle that derives both strong
and weak antisymmetry, as well as X-bar-theoretic constraints on possible phrase
structures. What we have seen in the above discussion is only that none of Kayne’s
(1994), Uriagereka’s (1999) or Sheehan’s (2013b) versions of the LCA can reason-
ably be adopted in projection-free syntax, which does not in itself argue against
weak and strong antisymmetry as empirical conjectures.
Importantly, Kayne (2011) departs from his previous LCA-based conception of
antisymmetry and puts forward an alternative hypothesis that deduces strong and
weak antisymmetry without recourse to the LCA. What is interesting is that, in his
alternative account of antisymmetry, he independently reaches the conclusion that
there should not be any instance of XP-YP merger, which is quite reminiscent of
the ESC. Thus, a closer look at Kayne’s (2011) account of antisymmetry is in order,
and I will turn to that topic in this section.
4.3.2	 Kayne’s (2011) LCA-free but still antisymmetric ESC
We saw that Uriagereka’s and Sheehan’s approaches fail to reconcile the inherent
incompatibility between bare phrase structure and the LCA. In contrast, Kayne’s
(2011) approach is to discard the LCA-based deduction of antisymmetry. Instead,
he attempts to “transpose the LCA-based ideas into the more derivational frame-
work of Chomsky (1995[b]) and later work,” eliminating recourse to the LCA.
From the outset of his antisymmetry-based research, Kayne (1994, 2004a,
2011) has been consistent in assuming that linear order is an integral part of syn-
tax in the narrow sense (NS) (see also Fukui 1993, 2001, Saito & Fukui 1998, and
166	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Zwart 2011), contrary to Chomsky (1995b), Moro (2000), Uriagereka (1999), and
Sheehan’s (2009, 2010, 2013a, b) assumption that the LCA is a condition only ap-
plying at PF. Departing from this LCA-based hypothesis, Kayne (2011) proposes
that Merge applying to α and β creates not a set of α and β ({α, β}) but rather an
ordered pair of α and β, 〈α, β〉, specifying that α immediately precedes β (see Saito
& Fukui 1998). He calls his conception of pair-creating Merge p-merge, to differ-
entiate it from Chomsky’s set-Merge (and also from his pair-Merge; see Chomsky
2004, 2007a, 2008). For Kayne (2011), p-merge is the only structure-building
operation available in NS. Kayne further claims that precedence established by
p-merge should be understood as immediate precedence, a total ordering that has
the property in (41).
	 (41)	 Immediate precedence is total:
		 If X immediately precedes Z and Y immediately precedes Z then X = Y, and
also if Z immediately precedes X and Z immediately precedes Y, then X = Y.
In principle, then, p-merge applying to α and β would generate either 〈α, β〉 or 〈β,
α〉, which appears to be a prima facie instance of the very type of “directionality
parameter” that antisymmetry is meant to replace. Kayne’s task is to show that,
for any S(pecifier), H(ead) and C(omplement) p-merge is constrained in such
a way that (i) it can generate only 〈H, C〉 and not 〈C, H〉, and (ii) S can only be
p-merged to the left of H. For the 〈H, C〉 problem, Kayne proposes the following
performance-based principle:
	 (42)	 Probe-goal search shares the directionality of parsing and of production.
Observing that both parsing and production show a temporal sequence and there-
fore a beginning vs. end asymmetry, proceeding from left to right, Kayne claims
that (42) yields (43):
	 (43)	 Probe-goal search proceeds from left to right.
This is claimed to hold “despite the fact that probe-goal search is not literally tem-
poral in the way that parsing and production are.” He goes on to claim that (43)
is equivalent to:
	 (44)	 Head and complement are invariably merged as 〈H, C〉.
given that the probe is the head and that the goal is the complement itself or is
contained within the complement, where the notion of probe-goal is generalized
over selector-selectee dependency, a familiar (though unwarranted) move in the
minimalist literature (Svenonius 1994, Holmberg 2000, Pesetsky & Torrego 2001,
2004, 2006, 2007).
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 167
How does Kayne deal with the other target result that the Specifier is invari-
ably p-merged to the left of H? Interestingly, one of the building blocks of Kayne’s
solution to this Specifier problem is the following constraint on p-merge, which is
akin to the conclusion reached in Chapter 3.
	 (45)	 The merger of two phrases is unavailable.
The similarity with the ESC that I advanced in Chapter 3, repeated here, is rather
obvious.
	(46)	Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC):
		 Merge can only generate SOs whose head LI H is immediately detectable via
minimal search at Interpret/Spell-Out.
Let me then formulate Kayne’s version of the ESC as follows:
	(47)	Kayne’s (2011) ESC:
		 Merge (p-merge) can only generate SOs of the form 〈H, α〉 or 〈α, H〉, where
H is an LI.
Specifically for the merger of a S(pecifier), Kayne claims that S is not really
p-merged with the phrasal complex 〈H, C〉 but rather with H itself, resulting in 〈S,
H〉 where S immediately precedes H.13 That is, Kayne hypothesizes that “S H C”
does not form a standard constituent, and that p-merge creates two discontinuous
phrases, 〈S, H〉 and 〈H, C〉. According to Kayne, the ordering of S and H in 〈S, H〉
follows from the assumption that the immediate precedence relation is total (41),
which naturally leads to (48):
	 (48)	 If H p-merges with X and also p-merges with Y, then X and Y must be on
opposite sides of H in terms of immediate precedence.
Recall that Kayne’s proposition that C is invariably p-merged to the immediate
right of H follows from (43) and ultimately from the performance-based stipula-
tion in (42). If H is further p-merged with an element S that is distinct from C, it
follows from the total property of immediate precedence that S should be p-merged
13.	 According to Kayne (2011: 14–15), “Taking S […] to merge with H itself would sharpen the
sense in which heads are central to syntax, going back to Chomsky (1970). Every instance of
Merge must directly involve a head, in the sense that (at least) one of the two syntactic objects
merged must be a head. Merge never constructs a set consisting of two syntactic objects each
of which is a phrase. From this perspective, (48) [which says, “Spell out the specifier S of H to
the left/right of the phrase headed by H that S is merging with,” HN] is not statable insofar as
S(pecifier) is not actually merging with any phrase at all.”
168	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
to the opposite side of H.14 Kayne’s claim is that this is why S is always merged to the
immediate left of H, invariably resulting in 〈S, H〉.
More generally, it follows from (48) that:
	 (49)	 A lexical item H can be p-merged with at most two distinct elements.
Kayne transposes into (49) the earlier LCA-based proposition (50):
	 (50)	 A single head can host at most one specifier.
(50) partially reconstructs the effect of X-bar theory that was once captured by the
LCA and the theory of Chomsky-adjunction, incorporating the category-segment
distinction for nonterminals.
Note that the S-H-C linear sequence does not form a standard sort of constitu-
ent: there are only 〈H, C〉 and 〈S, H〉, but not 〈S, 〈H, C〉〉 or anything equivalent to
this. Correspondingly, syntax generates no p-merge-based structure that “domi-
nates” or “contains” all of S, H and C. This led Kayne to stipulate the additional
definition of “maximal projection” in (51), so as to capture the apparent constitu-
ency of “S-H-C.”
	 (51)	 The maximal projection of a head H is the maximal set of ordered pairs each
of which immediately contains H.
However ad hoc this may look, it yields the result that attraction of H will pied-pipe
both 〈H, C〉 and 〈S, H〉, or so he claims.
Kayne’s p-merge-based account of antisymmetry makes no recourse to asym-
metric c-command or to nonterminal symbols, while it can apparently accommo-
date most of the empirical predictions attributed to the LCA. The target results for
Kayne are, among other things, weak and strong antisymmetry ((39) and (40)), as
well as the single-specifier condition (50). Unlike Uriagereka’s and Sheehan’s LCA,
Kayne seems to have no intention of defending his p-merge-based theory against
problems raised by the CED and other locality constraints.
It is interesting to observe that Kayne ended up proposing a kind of ESC (47) as
a way to eliminate recourse to projection and nonterminal symbols. That much is
compatible with my conclusion established in Chapter 3, namely that there should
be no reference to projection in the minimal theory of syntax.
14.	 In this manner, the distinctness of C and S is a necessary condition for Kayne’s (2011) p-
merge-based account of antisymmetry. Incidentally, I suspect this constitutes one of the reasons
why Kayne excludes movement of complement to the specifier position of the same head, regard-
ing such an option as no longer viable (ibid, note 47), contra Biberauer et al. (2008), Sheehan
(2009, 2010, 2013a), and many others. See also Kayne (1994: Chapter 6) vs. Kayne (2004b) on
adpositions.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 169
However, the cost of his p-merge hypothesis is that it necessarily incorporates
linear order into the core of syntax. Recall our initial motivation for bare phrase
structure, discussed in § 2.2.1: we have to construct a theory of NS in which no
information about linear order is available. Berwick et al. (2011) argue that the
eradication of linear order from NS constitutes a possible principled explanation
for the structure dependence of grammatical rules, a very well-founded general-
ization that all the grammatical rules are formulable only in terms of hierarchical
organization (compositional structure) of linguistic constituents. Berwick et al.
urge us to demonstrate a principled explanation for the total non-existence of
structure-independent (linear-dependent) rules, the simplest of which would just
say that there are no linear-dependent rules since linear order really isn’t part of
NS. I agree with Berwick et al. in regarding the advent of bare phrase structure
(Chomsky 1994, 1995b et seq.) as a real step toward this goal, in that it made an
important departure from the earlier transformational grammar, where compo-
sitional structuring, labeling, and precedence were erroneously encapsulated into
PSR-based rule schemata. Then, as far as we agree that we need an explanation of
structure dependence and that bare phrase structure paves the way for tackling
this problem, we had better refrain from re-importing precedence into the theory
of minimal NS. Correspondingly, Kayne’s p-merge based theory of antisymmetry
is at odds with the present exploration of minimal compositional syntax.
Counter to the above-mentioned approach, Kayne (2011: note 46) contends
that the separation of precedence from NS has been a mistake in generative lin-
gusitics. He attempts to argue for the relevance of linear order in NS by pointing
to various gaps and asymmetries in crosslinguistic data. The observations he dis-
cusses include the ubiquity of leftward (as opposed to rightward) movement, the
systematic difference between clitic left- and right-dislocation, the lack of obliga-
tory preposing of lexical objects to the left of their associated pronominal clitics,
the overall tendency of prenominal relatives (as opposed to postnominal relatives)
to be non-finite, the rarity of backward pronominalization as opposed to forward
pronominalization, and so on.
These typological tendencies are no doubt interesting, but it simply doesn’t fol-
low that they are necessarily facts about NS. Of course, it would be very exciting if
we somehow managed to pin down a single factor that derives all these interesting
facts about human linguistic behaviors, but I suspect it is too much to expect. The
above-mentioned facts are all complicated phenomena involving not only NS but
also numerous other factors pertaining to the use of linguistic capacity, including
pragmatics, language-specific morphophonology, memory limitations, principles
of parsing and production, and so on. Those factors may well be too significant
to ignore or abstract away from in the account of surface word order variations.
Moreover, there are also typological facts that go in the opposite direction. For
170	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
example, the prevalence of head-final word order is quite unexpected on Kayne’s
grounds. Certainly, then, such observations alone do not reasonably warrant the
incorporation of precedence into NS, which is basically tantamount to the with-
drawal of a principled explanation for the ubiquitous structure dependence of
linguistic computation.
4.3.3	 Antisymmetry and cartography in the pursuit of biological adequacy
So long as we admit that the above-mentioned typological gaps and asymmetries
are of limited relevance to the study of NS, it becomes correspondingly question-
able that antisymmetry really is a fact about the core architecture of FL. Recall that
Kayne grants two interpretations of antisymmetry, weak and strong:
	 (39)	 Weak Antisymmetry:
		 No two natural languages can be mirror images of one another.
	 (40)	 Strong Antisymmetry:
		 If some subtree (with both hierarchical structure and precedence relations
specified) is well-formed in some human language, then its mirror image is
well-formed in no human language.
Weak antisymmetry is a hypothesis about weak generative capacity, concerning the
set of sequences of LIs generable by the grammar. It holds that there can be no pair
of natural languages, L and L′, such that a sequence of words W1 — W2 — . . . — Wn is
a grammatical sentence of L if and only if its mirror image, Wn — Wn−1 — . . . — W1,
is a grammatical sentence of L′. So far, no such pair of languages has been reported
in the literature, corroborating weak antisymmetry as an empirical generalization,
and we are therefore justified in being interested in why weak antisymmetry holds.
In contrast, strong antisymmetry is a hypothesis about strong generative capacity,
concerning abstract phrase structure, and correspondingly, no direct observation
of surface strings can speak for or against strong antisymmetry. These two notions
of antisymmetry are therefore independent of each other.
Kayne’s approach is to maintain that weak antisymmetry arises primarily as a
consequence of strong antisymmetry, taking it as a real fact about UG. However,
possible accounts of weak antisymmetry may well involve complex interaction of
multiple factors. Given the more-or-less shared capacities of parsing, production,
perception, processing, articulation, and memory limitations, as well as the geneti-
cally determined space of human interests and intentionality, it is quite a reason-
able guess that certain temporal aspects of externalization processes show overall
tendency towards uniformity across human individuals, yielding various degrees
of weak antisymmetry. Therefore, weak antisymmetry by no means guarantees the
existence of strong antisymmetry.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 171
In this relation, it is worth noting that the presumption of strong antisym-
metry has provided one of the main motivations for the recent “inflation” of func-
tional categories in syntactic theory (Cinque 1999, 2002, Rizzi 2004). The reason
is that strong antisymmetry entails the following three properties: (A) there is no
distinction between Specs and adjuncts (Kayne 1994: Chapter 3), (B) any “pro-
jection” of a single head can host up to only one complement and one specifier/
adjunct,15 disallowing multiple Specs/adjuncts per head (ibid, Chapter 2), and
(C) there is a single universal Spec-Head-Complement (S-H-C) word order (ibid).
If (A)–(C) hold in syntax, then a logical consequence is that any “deviations” from
the S-H-C template, say a surface head-final word order or overt adjuncts, must
be each reanalyzed as involving a separate functional head attracting its comple-
ment or selecting another specifier. Thus, if we presume strong antisymmetry, the
existing variety of word order in an I-language must be seen as evidence for many
covert functional projections in that I-language. Indeed, Kayne himself argues
that his LCA-based theory should be regarded as providing a partial answer to
the question of why there are so many functional heads, which he claims is that
“functional heads make landing sites available” (ibid, 29–30). In this way, the
LCA has been a big patron of the cartography expansion in UG, which would be
no less true for Kayne’s (2011) p-merge-based alternative conception of strong
antisymmetry.
Of course, the LCA was originally proposed as an explanatory principle that
deduces a number of apparently unrelated conditions in syntax, effects of the tradi-
tional X-bar theory being a crucial one.This has been regarded as a highly desirable
result, and many researchers have attempted to maintain the basic insights behind
the LCA in various terms while revising it in a number of different ways. Such
proposals include Chomsky (1994, 1995b), Epstein et al. (1998), Uriagereka (1999,
2012), Moro (2000), Guimarães (2000), Nunes (2004), Jayaseelan (2008), Sheehan
(2009, 2010, 2013a, b) and Kayne (2009), to name just a few. However, now that
we established in Chapter 3 that X-bar theory is a departure from the SMT and
should be therefore eliminated, we can conclude that the empirical ground of the
LCA is undermined as well.
Moreover, two decades of investigation have shown that the ramifications
of imposing the universal S-H-C template à la the LCA are rather daunting. The
inflation of functional categories is one of such unfavorable result. To illustrate
the situation with Japanese, a strictly head-final language, Kayne’s strict universal
S-H-C word order forces us to analyze all the instances of surface S-C-H word
order in this language as involving obligatory movement of some complement
15.	 In the framework of bare phrase structure where recursive Merge can apply freely, forbidding
multiple specifiers will require stipulations, departing from minimalist desiderata.
172	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
(often remnant) XP to the specifier of a covert functional category. This move-
ment must always apply regardless of the categorial status of the XP. It is not at
all straightforward to formulate such a movement requirement in the current
theoretical framework, since any movement/attraction operation is considered
to select certain syntactic elements, e.g., φ-feature bearers. Even abstracting away
from this feature-selection problem, we cannot do anything but further postulate
ad hoc uninterpretable features or the like on ad hoc functional categories, again
departing from the goal of biological adequacy. As Fukui & Takano (1998: 33)
conclude, “We cannot think of any independent motivation for movement of
complements other than the very reason for getting the surface order right (the
C-H order), and it looks as though the postulated functional category attracts
complements of any type just to ensure the correct word order under the LCA,”
or strong antisymmetry more generally.
Head-finality is just one of the several commonly attested deviations from
the S-H-C template. It is true that any such deviations can be techically analyzed
in conformity with strong antisymmetry as long as we add as many functional
categories and uninterpretable features as needed to the cartography of clausal
syntax. However, if we were to take that path, namely the marriage of strong
antisymmetry and the cartography expansion, the machinery that such analyses
employ – covert functional categories and massive application of phrasal (rem-
nant) movements into their Specs – would become just too powerful to rule out
any surface word order, thus such a cartographic escape in effect nullifies Kayne’s
(2004a) and Cinque’s (2005) arguments for the LCA (and strong antisymmetry)
from typological gaps in the attested surface word order variations. And the mas-
sive overgeneration, inherent to the cartographic approach, can be blocked only
by further stipulations, again departing from the minimalist goal of biological
adequacy. See Ackema & Neeleman (2002), Richards (2004), Abels & Neeleman
(2009), Narita (2010), and Narita & Fujita (2010) among others for much relevant
discussion.
Furthermore, postulating a new functional category X to facilitate strong an-
tisymmetry will by itself complicate UG in various ways: first of all, UG should
provide a proper theoretical description of X. To define the working of X, we
should postulate:
	 (52)	 A bundle of features of X that collectively determine:
		 a.	 what category X takes as its complement
		 b.	 what kind of elements X attracts or selects as its specifier(s)
		 c.	 how many specifiers X can take
		 d.	 how X contributes to interpretation at SEM and PHON
and so on. Moreover, we should come up with some non-stipulative explana-
tion of:
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 173
	 (53)	 a.	 why X emerges in FL at all
		 b.	
how the parametric properties of X are acquired through experience for
each I-language.
Previous cartographic proposals simply assume the full set of functional categories
as predetermined properties of UG. This assumption is a major roadblock on the
path to the minimalist goal of biological adequacy, which asks why FL comes to
have the properties it has now, not many other imaginable ones.
Quite accurately describing the state of affairs, Fukui (2006: 3) notes, “Given
their usefulness as a descriptive tool, … functional elements have sometimes been
overused in syntactic analyses, particularly in the late 1980s, a situation that is remi-
niscent of the overuse of grammatical transformations in the 1970s or parameters
in the early 1980s,” a statement that is especially true in the Cinquean cartography
project (Cinque 1999, 2002, Rizzi 2004). The full set of earlier language-specific or
construction-specific transformational rules, postulated with an eye towards meet-
ing observational or descriptive adequacy, once seemed to set the goal of explana-
tory adequacy hopelessly remote from the early practice of generative grammar.
However, the generative enterprise finally overcame the tension between descrip-
tive and explanatory adequacy by giving birth to the Principles-&-Parameters ap-
proach to language acquisition. Early transformational rules are now regarded just
as “taxonomic artifacts” without theoretical significance, whose descriptive effects
are to be deduced from interactions of UG principles and parameters.16 The lesson
to be learned is that ad hoc descriptive specifics are likely to be eventually reduced
to simpler and deeper theoretical constructs with a broader range of application.
Fukui’s passage above expresses a reasonable hunch that essentially the same might
be true for the recent overuse of functional categories, too. Indeed, all the past for-
mulations of each and every functional category have been very FL-specific (if not
I-language-specific) and “meaning”-specific (“topic,” “mood,” “aspect,” etc., if not
construction-specific). The additional assumption that these categories are UG-
fixed universals would resolve the significant question of explanatory adequacy in
its technical sense, i.e., an encompassing description of the first factor that suffices
to determine I-language from available data, but it crucially begs the minimalist
question of biological adequacy.17
16.	 However, simply trading the descriptive burden from transformational rules to correspond-
ing microparameters does not help much in the context of minimalism, since now parameters
are just another set of “UG-stipulations” which are hopefully to be eliminated in favor of third-
factor principles and properties of external performance systems that FL interfaces with. See
Newmeyer (2005, 2006, 2010) and Boeckx (2010a, 2014) for relevant discussion.
17.	 Of course, simply replacing functional categories with some post-NS covert “type-shifting”
operations does not do any good in this situation; essentially the same question arises for such
other language-specific operations.
174	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
The MP is an attempt to show how many of the properties of FL we can at-
tribute to the third factor, minimizing UG-stipulations with the hope for a (more)
biologically adequate theory of human language. As it stands now, the cartography
of functional categories is definitely FL-specific, hence departing from the SMT.
And even if we further stipulate that each of these functional categories is there to
enhance, say, expressiveness for the CI performance system (see, e.g., Miyagawa
2010), such a teleological/functional explanation for (53a) is at best partial, and it
still begs the rest of the questions in (52)–(53).
Many researchers are well aware of the fundamental tension between the in-
flation of functional categories (due to descriptive pressures) and the minimal-
ist goal of biological adequacy. Thus, for example, Chomsky (1995b: 240) argues,
“Postulation of a functional category has to be justified, either by output conditions
(phonetic and semantic interpretation) or by theory-internal arguments. It bears a
burden of proof, which is often not so easy to meet.” He provides a theory-internal
argument against postulating a functional category with null CI-interpretation,
AGR, based on the principle of FI. We should apply such minimalist scrutiny to
other functional categories as well. And of course, reluctance to attribute null in-
terpretation to an abstract functional category (e.g., AGR) does not by any means
imply willingness to attribute arbitrarily isolated “semantic content” to a newly
stipulated functional category (topic, focus, subjecthood, force, etc.).
Advocates of the cartographic approach claim that a highly articulated func-
tional hierarchy is necessary to achieve sufficient descriptive and/or explanatory
adequacy. We should carefully scrutinize each of these arguments empirically and
theoretically (see the discussion below), and seek to find a way to overcome the dif-
ficulties the cartography expansion necessarily poses (e.g., (52)–(53)) for biological
adequacy. We should regard the descriptive technicalities in the cartographic ap-
proach not as a final explanation but rather as a first descriptive approximation of
the facts to be explained in terms of the three factors in the language design, with
the significance of the third factor emphasized (Chomsky 2005).
Fortunately, now, we have seen that minimalist syntax provides no room for
the LCA, by far the most dominant statement of strong antisymmetry. Kayne’s
p-merge-based alternative also suffers from its unexplanatory re-incorporation of
precedence into NS, and correspondingly loses its force in the MP. Therefore, the
big patron for the inflation of functional categories, namely strong antisymmetry,
has lost its force in syntactic theories, opening the door for simpler analyses of
clausal syntax, keeping closely to the SMT.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 175
4.4	 MHD-based linearization of endocentric structuring
We saw in the preceding discussion that the LCA cannot be the correct theory of
linearization. The LCA is but one of the past proposals on linearization that makes
reference to nonterminal symbols, an option that must be excluded in the theory
of syntax without projection. Incidentally, it seems that there have so far been no
successful projection-free proposals concerning the mechanics of linearization
in the literature: past proposals, including any form of directionality parameter
(Chomsky 1981, Epstein et al. 1998, Saito & Fukui 1998, Fox & Pesetsky 2005
etc.), the LCA of any sort and Fukui & Takano’s (1998) symmetry principle, were
all dependent on labeled phrase structure. However, this by no means proves that
projection-free syntax can never approach the problem of linearization. In what
follows, I will try to lay out my own proposal regarding the issue of linearization
that makes no recourse to representational labels/projection.
Admittedly, the account to be explicated below is relatively weak in its predic-
tive force. In particular, it does not provide any prediction of antisymmetry – it
is not even my aim to do so. I do not regard this as a bad result, though. As I
noted above, we can conjecture that the theory of NS does not necessarily bear
the burden of accounting for weak antisymmetry, given that countless other com-
plex factors figure in the process of externalization, and some of those factors,
including processing efficiency, limitations on memory and attention, etc., would
presumably figure in the account of weak antisymmetry. Moreover, Spell-Out of
linguistic structures is in itself a very complicated task, too, which may be a result
of its being subsidiary to the core architecture of FL, which presumably evolved
saltationally in the species optimized primarily to interface with CI (Chomsky
2007a, b, 2008).
Before laying out the proposal, it may be worth pointing out first that
Uriagereka’s LCA is simple enough to reformulate without resorting to represen-
tational labels or c-command. For example, the following proposition suffices to
capture the essential effect of Uriagereka’s LCA. Henceforth, “H ≫ α” denotes “H
immediately precedes α.”
	 (54)	 An SO of the form {H, α} is mapped by Spell-Out to H ≫ α.
Provided that each of the SOs subjected to Transfer unambiguously takes the form
of unidirectional H-α branching (55), pretty much keeping to the line envisaged
by Uriagereka, the unidirectional mapping of each SO {H, α} to H ≫ α is rather
straightforward.
176	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	 (55)	 a.	 {X, {Y, {Z, . . . }}}
		b.	
X
Y
Z
However, note that there is no principled reason to expect that the relevant relation
established between H and α must be restricted to “immediate precedence” ≫. That
is, nothing in the minimal theory of UG can prevent a comparable “immediate
postcedence” relation from being established for particular pairs of H and α. That
is, the following should be as simple a procedure of linearization as (54), despite
Kayne’s (1994, 2011) attempts to argue for the contrary.
	 (56)	 An SO of the form {H, α} is mapped by Spell-Out to α ≫ H.
Indeed, my proposal is that both (54) and (56) are available options for lineariza-
tion – that is, each SO {H, α} can be mapped to either H ≫ α or α ≫ H, depending
on the morphological features of H.
To lay out the proposal, recall the hypothesis that the compositional inter-
pretation assigned to an SO is predominantly determined by the properties of its
head identified by MHD (1), basically the LI H in {H, α}. If heads and their lexical
properties prominently figure in the mapping to SEM, as I argued in Chapter 3, the
null hypothesis is that the same applies to the mapping to PHON, too. Specifically
for linearization, then, it is reasonable to assume that linearization procedures will
also strongly hinge on heads and their morphological properties. So to speak, the
head of each H-α structure serves as the locus of the above-mentioned lineariza-
tion procedures. Moreover, if linearization really assumes the optionality of assign-
ing precedence or postcedence to H and α in {H, α}, it is reasonable to suppose
that the optionality will hinge on the phonological features of H. Taking these into
consideration, I would like to propose that each LI H will be assigned precedence
or postcedence in relation to its sister SO α, depending on featural specifications
of H. To use some informal but helpful terminology, H’s relevant features (mor-
phological and phonological features) have to determine whether each H will be
“prefixed” or “suffixed” to α at PHON.18
18.	 A strong piece of evidence for this view comes from the fact that within the same language, a
single semantic type of affix can appear as a prefix or a suffix. For example, Erzerum Armenian has
an imperfective affix gu that is either a prefix or suffix, conditioned by the phonological property
of the root. The following examples are attributed by Bridget Samuels to Bert Vaux (p.c.):
	 (i)	 monosyllabic verb roots:
		gu-la-m
		impf-cry-1sg
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 177
	 (57)	 Phonological features of each LI H determine whether H in {H, α} is prefixed
or suffixed to Lin(α), where Lin(α) is a linear sequence of LIs assigned to
the SO α.
Various “redundancy rules” (Chomsky 1965) may achieve partial to total uni-
formity of prefixation vs. suffixation directionality across categories in some lan-
guages (yielding the effect of directionality parameters), while sometimes not, as
we will see.19
For example, we may assume the following linearization rules for the Spell-Out
operations of English and Japanese, where ≫ again stands for immediate prece-
dence (though with an important qualification below), and Lin(α) stands for the
linear sequence assigned to the SO α.
	(58)	English:
		 a.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α}, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α).
		 b.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and Σ is generated at a phase level, map Σ to
H ≫ Lin(α), and no phonological interpretation is assigned to H at any
other positions within the phase.
	(59)	Japanese:
		 a.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α}, map Σ to Lin(α) ≫ H.
		 b.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and Σ is generated at a phase level, map Σ to
H ≫ Lin(α), and no phonological interpretation is assigned to H at any
other positions within the phase.
We will see shortly how these two sets of Spell-Out rules yield the desired results.
The rules in (58a) and (59a) are specifically for SOs generated by EM, and (58b)
and (59b) for SOs generated by phase-level movement operations like IM and
head-movement.
	 (ii)	 vowel-initial verb roots:
		 g-ertha-m
		impf-go-1sg
	 (iii)	 consonant-initial polysyllabic roots:
		 bheri-m-gǝ
		bear-1sg-impf
The data clearly suggest that morpheme ordering is in fact determined lexically, rather than by
some syntactic rules like roll-up head-movement, Brody’s (2000) mirror theory, etc. I am grateful
to Bridget Samuels for pointing to these observations.
19.	 Boeckx (2011) suggests that there may be a principle that sets a preference for parametric
value consistency among similar LIs (he calls this principle the “Superset Bias”). Maybe such a
principle is operative in the acquisition of prefixal/suffixal directionality, too.
178	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
I stipulate that the Spell-Out rule for movement, (58b) = (59b), is invariant
across languages, which is specifically meant to capture the universal leftness of
movement operations. The strong preference for the leftness of movement pre-
sumably has its root in the parsing preference for forward (left-to-right) filler-
gap (antecedent-trace) dependency over backward dependency (see Ackema &
Neeleman 2002, Abels & Neeleman 2009, Cecchetto 2007, 2013 for quite relevant
discussions). Moreover, the deletion of lower copies in (58b) = (59b) presumably
contributes to the reduction of computational load of Spell-Out, and thus its emer-
gence may be required by the principle of MC: if multiple copies are spelled out,
each of the copies has to go through language-specific phonological processes
over and over again, which will necessarily increase the burden of computation
at Spell-Out. The computational load can be significantly reduced once Spell-Out
is allowed to delete all but one copy.20 Given these considerations, I maintain that
(58b) = (59b) are integrated as concrete rules of Spell-Out across languages.
In contrast to the hypothesized universal leftness of movement, I assume that
the variability of word order lies in linearization rules for base (i.e., non-move-
ment) structures, which are exemplified by (58a) and (59a). Notice that (58a) and
(59a) constitute mirror images of each other. This is a reasonable hypothesis, given
that these two languages are among the so-called “harmonic” head-initial and
head-final languages, and as the Spell-Out rules in (58)–(59) suggest, each instance
of H in {H, α} is mapped to a unidirectional sequential order, H ≫ α in English,
and α ≫ H in Japanese. English LIs are uniformly “prefixal,” whereas Japanese ones
are more or less uniformly “suffixal,” so to speak.
20.	It may be that the lower copy-deletion should be understood not as an exceptionless “hard”
principle but rather as a softer preference that may be overridden by some other phonological
considerations. See, e.g., Bobaljik (1995, 2002b), Kato (2004), Narita (2007a, b, 2008) among
many others for the proposal that certain instances of covert movement in various linguistic
phenomena may be achieved by deleting the higher copy of the IMed element, constituting
minor departures from (58b)/(59b) of limited sorts. For example, Bošković (2002b) proposes
that certain instances of covert wh-movement in multiple wh-fronting languages, exemplified
in (i), results from respecting a PF-constraint against consecutive homophonous wh-phrases
(example (i) is drawn from Serbo-Croatian).
	 (i)	 Serbo-Croatian: (Bošković 2002b)
		Šta	 štai uslovljava 	 štai?
		what		 conditions 	what
The fundamental insight that Bošković and others pursue is that the deletion of a higher copy is
a “last resort” strategy of Spell-Out that is undertaken in order to salvage otherwise legitimate
syntactic structures from violations of PF-constraints. I will put aside the study of such phenom-
ena. See also Nissenbaum (2000), Marušič (2009) and others.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 179
For the present discussion, I will generally assume that Lin(X) = X for each LI
X, which will serve as the “base step” for linearization. I will also assume that the
linearization rules apply recursively from bottom-up in phase structures subjected
to Spell-Out, meeting the desideratum of computational cyclicity.
Let us go through the derivation of an English sentence the boy will eat the
apple described in Chapter 2, and its counterpart in Japanese:
	(60)	English:
		 (that/if/whether/…) the boy will eat the apple.
	(61)	Japanese:
		 otokonoko-ga ringo-o	 tabe-ru (yo/ne/no?…).
		boy-nom	apple-acc eat-will sfp
First, applying to the object K-phase structure in (62), the English Spell-Out rule
(58a) first maps {D, N} to the sequence D ≫ N, and attaches K to the sequence,
producing K ≫ D ≫ N.21
	(62)	a.	
K
[uCase,uQ,uφ] D
[vQ,vφ]
N
[vφ]
		b.	
K
[uCase,v Q, v φ] D
[vQ,vφ]
N
[vφ]
Transfer
		c.	
					
K
				[uCase,vQ,vφ]
21.	 N seems to be as prominent as D in {D, N}, so readers might wonder if MHD may also single
out N as the head of {D, N}, a clearly undesirable result both semantically and phonologically.
This kind of possible head-ambiguity may arise, more generally, for any structures of the form
{X, Y}, where X and Y are both LIs: another prominent example is {K, v*}, a structure gener-
ated by EM of the subject K and the v*-phase (see, e.g., (31c) of Chapter 3). We may avoid this
problem in a number of ways, e.g., (i) by adopting a more articulated structure internal to N (as
in Distributed Morphology), (ii) by allowing Merge to generate a singleton set of N, {N}, prior
to the merger with D, leading to {D, {N}} (see Guimarães 2000, Kayne 2009 and Fukui 2011 for
singleton-formation), or (iii) by dislocating either N or D by IM or head-movement (probably
to K), rendering the trace irrelevant to MHD-based linearization (see also Moro 2000, Chomsky
2008, 2013). For the lack of strong evidence, I will refrain from deciding among these options.
180	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
We assumed that Transfer severs K from {K, {D, N}}, so to speak, and leaves only K
for later computation of NS. However, the hypothesis was that Transfer sends not
only the interior Σ itself but also all the structural relations established with regard
to Σ, including the “constitute”-relation that Σ has established with the phase-head
LI H for {H, Σ} (see § 2.5.1).
	 (63)	 Constitute (Consist-of):
		α and β constitute γ (or conversely, γ consists of α and β) iff γ is the output of
Merge(α, β).
Thus, the “constitute”-relation for {K, {D, N}} between K and {D, N} is subjected
to Spell-Out at the K-phase-level Transfer. I assume that this sufficiently guar-
antees that K will be mapped at the next phase to the position that immediately
precedes or follows Lin({D, N}). Thus, the English Spell-Out rule (58a) assigns
the following linear sequences to the subject K-phase (KSubj-phase) and the object
K-phase (KObj-phase). The parentheses in (KSubj) and (KObj) indicate that the ul-
timate assignment of phonological interpretation to the phase head is postponed
to the next phase.
	(64)	English:
		a.	 (KSubj) ≫ theD ≫ boyN (= Lin(KSubj-phase))
		b.	(KObj) ≫ theD ≫ appleN (= Lin(KObj-phase))
Applying in the same order, Japanese Spell-Out rule (59a) will produce reverse,
head-final linear sequences:22,23
22.	 Japanese D is morphologically null most of the time, but we may regard, e.g., human definite
plural suffixes -tati, -ra, -domo, etc., as instances of overt D in Japanese: consider, e.g., kodomo-
tati ‘the children (child-def.pl)’. The relation between plurality and definiteness in Japanese
has been pointed out by Kawasaki (1989) and Kurafuji (1999). Cf. Watanabe (2006, 2008) for
cartographic descriptions of Japanese nominals.
23.	 Incidentally, it is not unreasonable to suppose that Japanese demonstratives ko ‘this’, so
‘that’, a ‘that’ and do ‘which’ are instances of a bona fide “specifier/adjunct” D that somehow
are lexically marked as instantiating a rather exceptional instance of “head-initial” order D ≫ α
in Japanese. This option is available in our projection-free syntax, where no structural notions
like “specifier-of” or “adjunct-of” are available. This simplistic approach might be sufficient to
address the problem regarding Japanese demonstratives raised by Hajime Hoji (p.c.), which
concerns how such demonstratives (appearing in a genitive-marked “spec”-like position) cru-
cially determine the anaphoric properties of the KP. Of course, a question remains as to why
these particular instances of D deviate from the otherwise uniform head-final word order in
Japanese, but this is no more puzzling than all the other instances of occasional deviations from
directionality harmonization, such as the head-initial complementizer in otherwise head-final
Germanic languages.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 181
	 (65)	 Japanese:
		a.	 otokonokoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ (gaKSubj
)	 (= Lin(KSubj-phase))
		b.	ringoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ (oKObj
) (= Lin(KObj-phase))
Incidentally, various considerations suggest that Japanese has no φ-feature agree-
ment operations (Fukui 1986/1995b, 1988, 1995a, 2008, Fukui & Speas 1986,
Kuroda 1988, Fukui & Sakai 2003, Narita & Fukui 2012), and hence no [vφ]’s and
[uφ]’s are distributed over the relevant LIs in the Japanese counterparts of (62),
but the procedure for linearization is essentially the same.
Let us consider the next phase with v*. Recall from § 2.8 that we put forward
the “sideward LI-LI remerge” analysis of head-movement, where V-to-v-raising
results in a “multi-root” structure such as the one in (66b, b′). For the ease of
exposition, I follow the oft-made assumption that V-to-v-raising applies cross-
linguistically, although see Takano (1996), Fukui & Takano (1998), and Fukui &
Sakai (2003) for some arguments that V-to-v-raising is absent in languages like
Japanese.
	 (66)	 a.	 {KP, {v*, {V, KP}}}
		a′.	
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ] v∗
[Acc,uφ] V KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
Phase-level operations
		 b.	 i.	 {KP, {v*, {V, KP}}}
			 ii.	{V, v*}
		b′.	
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
[Acc, v φ] V KP
[Acc ,vQ,vφ]
Transfer
		c.	 {KP, v*}
		c′.	
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
[Acc,vφ]
Transfer (66b) sends off {V, KObj} in (66b-i) and the whole of (66b-ii), as well as the
constitute-relations thereof, to Spell-Out. As for the head-movement structure in
(66b-ii), the movement rule (58b) maps it to V ≫ v* and deletes other copies of
182	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
V in (66b-i). As for the former, the English rule (58a) first maps {V, KObj} to V ≫
KObj ((67b); see note 21), and then attaches v*, forming (67c). Therefore, combined
with Lin(KObj-phase) (64b), the interior of the v*-phase is mapped to (67d) (X
represents a phonologically deleted copy of X. Henceforth, I will freely shorten X
≫ Y ≫ Z to X ≫ Z).
	(67)	English:
		a.	 eatV ≫ (v*) ((66b-ii) via (58b))
		b.	eatV ≫ KObj	 ({V, KObj} via (58a))
		c.	 (v*) ≫ eatV ≫ KObj ({v*, {V, KObj}} via (58a))
	 ∴	d.	 eatV ≫ (v*) ≫ KObj ≫ theD ≫ appleN (= Lin(v*-phase))
Through the same processes, the Japanese Spell-Out rules in (59) yield (68). First,
{v*, {V, KObj}} in (66b-i) is mapped to a mirror image of (67c) by (59a), as shown
in (68c). In contrast, (59b) = (58b) maps (66b-ii) to (68a), which is an equivalent
of (67a). Since (68a) is properly contained in (68c), the combination of (68a) with
(68c) just yields the same sequence as (68c). Thus, combined with Lin(KObj-phase),
the entire interior of the v*-phase is mapped to (68d) in Japanese.
	(68)	Japanese:
		a.	 tabeV ≫ (v*)	 ((66b-ii) via (59b))
		b.	oKObj
≫ tabeV ({V, KObj} via (59a))
		c.	 oKObj
≫ tabeV ≫ (v*)({v*, {V, KObj}} via (59a))
	 ∴	d.	 ringoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ oK ≫ tabeV ≫ (v*) (= Lin(v*-phase))
Finally, let us consider the C-phase-level linearization. The standard analysis holds
that the subject KP undergoes so-called “EPP-driven” A-movement to “Spec-T,”
although the obligatoriness of this operation is parametrized across languages
(as discussed in § 3.6.3, the ESC predicts that in-situ subjects in languages like
Japanese may be free from the subject condition (CED) effect). I argued in § 2.5.2
that the movement results in the multi-rooted structure in (69b) (as shown in (83)
of Chapter 2, further application of T-to-C head-movement may yield another
root SO {T, C}).
	(69)	a.	 {C, {T, {KSubj, v*}}}
		a′.	
C
[Nom]
T
[uφ] KSubj
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
		b.	i.	 {C, {T, {KSubj, v*}}}
			 ii.	{KSubj, {T, {KSubj, v*}}}
KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ] v∗
[Acc,uφ] V KP
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
Phase-level operations
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 183
		b′.	
C
[Nom]
KSubj
T
[v φ] KSubj
[Nom,vQ,vφ]
v∗
Transfer
		c.	 C
		c′.
	 	 	C
			 [Nom]
All the SOs within (69b) except the phase head C constitute the interior of the
C-phase, subjected to Spell-Out. The two SOs share the partially overlapping con-
stituent {T, {KSubj, v*}}.
Starting from English, recall first that KSubj and v* have already defined
their own phases, and that they are already integrated into the linear sequences
in (70a, b). Now, consider first the A-movement of KSubj in (69b-ii). It instructs
that KSubj is linearized to the left of Lin({T, {KSubj, v*}}) via (58b), and that all the
other occurrences of KSubj within the C-phase are deleted (70c). Next, {KSubj, v*}
is mapped to (70d), and then {T, {KSubj, v*}} is mapped to (70e). Combined with
(70c), (70f) is formed.
	(70)	English:
		a.	 KSubj ≫ theD ≫ boyN (= Lin(KSubj-phase), (64a))
		b.	eatV ≫ v* ≫ KObj ≫ theD ≫ appleN (= Lin(v*-phase), (67d))
		c.	 KSubj ≫ Lin({T, {KSubj, v*}}) and delete other copies of KSubj
 ((69b-ii) via (58b))
		d.	v* ≫ KSubj ({KSubj, v*} via (58a))
		e.	 willT ≫ v* ≫ KSubj ({T, {KSubj, v*}} via (58a))
		f.	 KSubj ≫ willT ≫ v* ≫ KSubj (= Lin(69b-ii))
Now, notice that (70a, b, f) determine linear sequences that are apparently incom-
patible with each other. The problem has to do with the understanding that ≫
denotes immediate precedence. If X immediately precedes Y, then it should follow
that no element Z ≠ X can immediately precede Y, and that X cannot immediately
precede any element Z ≠ Y (cf. Kayne 2011). However, (70a) and (70f) hold that
KSubj immediately precedes theD ≫ boyN and also willT ≫ v* at the same time.
Similarly, (70b) and (70f) hold that v* is immediately preceded by eatV and also
by willT at the same time. How can our theory of linearization avoid these unde-
sirable results?
184	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
In order to resolve this problem, I would like to propose the following conven-
tion for the mapping of “≫”-relations to full linear sequences of LIs (cf. Richards
2004, 2007a, Fox & Pesetsky 2005).
	(71)	Order Preservation Convention:
		 a.	 If a sequence X ≫ Y is generated prior to a sequence X ≫ Z, then map
these sequences to X ≫ Y ≫ Z.
		 b.	 If a sequence X ≫ Y is generated prior to a sequence Z ≫ Y, then map
these sequences to Z ≫ X ≫ Y.
Basically, (71) states that ≫-relations generated earlier take priority over ones
generated later: if linearization generates X ≫ Y and then X ≫ Z, X ≫ Y ≫ Z is
formed; if linearization generates X ≫ Y and then Z ≫ Y, Z ≫ X ≫ Y is formed.
I propose that this rule is a built-in property of UG, applying universally across
languages. As we will see shortly, it has the effect of maximally preserving the
previously established linear sequences, which can be understood as a natural
consequence of the PIC.
Recall that the linear sequences of the KSubj-phase (70a) and the v*-phase
(70b) are established prior to the C-phase-level linearization in (70f). Thus, the
Order Preservation Convention in (71) preserves (70a, b), and attaches the relevant
subsequences of (70f) to the left or the right of (70a, b). Thus, given that KSubj ≫
theD ≫ boyN in (70a) is generated prior to KSubj ≫ willT ≫ v* in (70f), (71a) maps
them to (72):
	(72)	KSubj ≫ theD ≫ boyN ≫ willT ≫ v* ((70a) + (70f) via (71a))
Moreover, since eatV ≫ v* in (70b) is established prior to willT ≫ v* in (70f), (71b)
maps them to willT ≫ eatV ≫ v*. In this manner, the combination of (72) and (70b)
yields (73), which determines the correct word order of “TP”-internal LIs:
	(73)	KSubj ≫ theD ≫ boyN ≫ willT ≫ eatV ≫ v* ≫ KObj ≫ theD ≫ appleN
 ((72) and (70b) via (71b))
This concludes the linearization of (69b–ii).
Finally, let’s consider what the linearization of (69b-i) adds to (73). Here, the
same Order Preservation Convention (71) turns out to be relevant. First, (C) is
attached to the left of Lin({T, {KSubj, v*}}) = (70e), yielding (74):
	(74)	(C) ≫ willT ≫ v* ≫ KSubj	 (= Lin(69b-i))
As indicated by the parentheses, the ultimate linearization of C will be postponed
to the next phase.24 Then, the Order Preservation Convention (71) predicts that
24.	Things might be different when we adopt Chomsky’s (2004) hypothesis that Transfer, if ap-
plied to the root clause CP, will subject the entire CP, including C, to Spell-Out (a hypothesis that
the definition of Transfer reached in Chapter 2 at least makes room for; see § 2.5.1 and also Goto
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 185
the linearization internal to the C-phase takes priority over the linearization of (C).
Specifically, (C) ≫ willT in (74) and (73) are mapped to (75), which represents the
final result of Lin(C-phase):
	(75)	(C) ≫ KSubj ≫ theD ≫ boyN ≫ willT ≫ eatV ≫ v* ≫ KObj ≫ theD ≫ appleN
 (= Lin(C-phase))
This correctly represents the canonical head-initial word order in English.
Let us turn to Japanese, and see that the same convention in (71) provides the
correct head-final linearization of the C-phase in (69). The step-by-step applica-
tions of Spell-Out rules are summarized in (76).
	(76)	Japanese:
		a.	 otokonokoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ gaKSubj (= Lin(KSubj-phase), (65a))
		b.	ringoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ oKObj
≫ tabeV ≫ v* (= Lin(v*-phase), (68d))
		c.	 gaKSubj
≫ Lin({T, {KSubj, v*}}) and delete other copies of gaKSubj
 ((69b–ii) and (59b))
		d.	gaKSubj
≫ v*({KSubj, v*} via (58a))
		e.	 gaKSubj
≫ v* ≫ ruT ({T, {KSubj, v*}} via (59a))
		f.	 gaKSubj
≫ gaKSubj
≫ v* ≫ ruT (= Lin(69b-ii))
		g.	 otokonokoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ gaKSubj
≫ v* ≫ ruT ((76a) + (76f))
		h.	otokonokoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ gaKSubj
≫ ringoN ≫ ⊘D ≫ oKObj
≫ tabeV ≫ v* ≫ ruT
 ((76g) and (76b) via (71b))
		i.	 KSubj ≫ v* ≫ ruT ≫ (C) (= Lin(69b-ii))
	 ∴ 	j.	 otokonokoN ≫⊘D ≫gaKSubj
≫ringoN ≫⊘D ≫oKObj
≫tabeV ≫v*≫ruT ≫(C)
 (= Lin(C-phase), via (71))
Readers may want to go over (76) and check if each of (76a–j) constitutes a legiti-
mate step in terms of the linearization rules in (59) and (71).
2010, 2011). If we pursue this hypothesis, there is no obvious sense in which the linearization of
C follows the generation of (73). This may be a true case where the convention in (71) will fail to
achieve total ordering, yielding undecidability of precedence between C and the moved K with
respect to Lin({T, {K, v*}}). Some phonological means should then be employed to overcome
this problem. One may speculate that assignment of a null phonetic content to C might be a
simple way to circumvent the problem, as in English root clauses. Moreover, context-sensitive
alignment of C to the right of Lin({T, {K, v*}}) may also salvage the structure from linearization
undecidability, an option that may be instantiated by sentence-final particles in Japanese and
other languages (see (78c) for a “mirror-image,” context-sensitive head-final alignment of C in
German). Such speculations may provide a partial explanation for why sentence-initial comple-
mentizers are almost always crosslinguistically null in root-clauses, whereas there are numerous
examples of overt sentence-final complementizers, predominantly appearing in root clauses. I
will leave this interesting problem for future research, but it is significant that this projection-free
approach to the linearization problem paves the way for providing a partial account for such a
well-established typological finding.
186	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
The discussion above shows that the MHD-based theory of linearization can
provide a reasonably well-defined account of head-initial and head-final word
orders in English and Japanese. These two languages are instances of so-called
“harmonic” languages, where one specification of head-complement or comple-
ment-head order is sufficient for deriving all types of phrases. However, such well-
behaved languages are relatively rare, and there are ample examples of disharmonic
languages, where some phrase types are head-initial while others head-final. In the
rest of this section, I would like to argue that the MHD-based theory of lineariza-
tion can deal with cases of disharmonic languages as well.
For illustration, I would like to provide a MHD-based analysis of German dis-
harmonic word order. As exemplified in (77), German exhibits head-initial word
order in nominal categories including P (denoted by [+N] henceforth), while ver-
bal categories including auxiliaries/T (henceforth [+V]) are predominantly head-
final. Moreover, this language also constitutes a famous example of the so-called
verb-second (V2) phenomenon, where the most prominent auxiliary/T (which
is assumed to be located at C via head-movement) occupies the second leftmost
position in a clause.
	(77)	German:
		 der Junge hat den Apfel gegessen.
		 the boy	 has the	 apple eaten
		 ‘The boy has eaten the apple.’
I contend that the disharmonic word order of German can be accounted for by the
following set of linearization rules.
	(78)	German:25
		 a.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and it is [+N], map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α).
		 b.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and it is [+V], map Σ to Lin(α) ≫ H.
		 c.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and it is C, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α).
		 d.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and Σ is generated at a phase level, map Σ to
H ≫ Lin(α), and no phonological interpretation is assigned to H at any
other positions within the phase.
The lexical rules in (78a–c) are ordered in terms of specificity, and I assume that a
more specified rule takes priority over less specified ones when both are applicable.
This can be regarded as a reflection of the so-called “Elsewhere Condition” of
morpho-phonology, which is commonly assumed in the literature of morphology:
the most highly specified wins.
25.	 The analysis presented here can be readily extended to other V2 languages, too.
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 187
	(79)	Elsewhere Condition on Linearization Rules:
		 The most highly specified rule takes priority over less specified ones when
both are applicable.
It is worth noting that the fact that the movement rule in (58b)/(59b) applies prior
to the base rule in (58a)/(59a) may also be thought of as another consequence of
(79).
Let us go through the linearization of (77). According to (78), linearization of
German K-phases ([+N]) follows the same path as the English counterparts in (64).
	(80)	German: K-phase, head-initial (cf. (64))
		a.	 (KSubj) ≫ derD ≫ JungeN (= Lin(KSubj-phase))
		b.	(KObj) ≫ denD ≫ ApfelN (= Lin(KObj-phase))
In contrast, linearization of v*-phases ([+V]) follows the path analogous to the
Japanese case in (68).
	(81)	German: v*-phase, head-final (cf. (68))
		a.	 gegessenV ≫ (v*) ((66b-ii) via (78d))
		b.	KObj ≫ gegessenV ({V, KObj} via (78b))
		c.	 KObj ≫ gegessenV ≫ (v*)({v*, {V, KObj}} via (78b))
	 ∴	d.	KObj ≫ denD ≫ ApfelN ≫ gegessenV ≫ (v*) (= Lin(v*-phase), via (71a))
Turning to the C-phase, I adopt the standard analysis that the V2 order in lan-
guages like German is determined by T-to-C head-movement and topicalization
of some phrase to Spec-C (Chomsky 1986a). These C-phase-level operations yield
(82). For the ease of exposition, I omit KSubj’s A-movement to Spec-T (cf. (69b-ii)),
whose effect is nullified by KSubj’s further A′-movement to Spec-C.26
	 (82)	 a.	 {C, {T, {KSubj, v*}}}
		a′.	
C
[Nom] T
[uφ] KSubj
[uCase,vQ,vφ]
v∗
Phase-level operations
		b.	i.	 {KSubj, {C, {T, {KSubj, v*}}}}
			 ii.	{T, C}
26.	If the A-movement applies in addition to topicalization, there must be some principle that
chooses the occurrence of KSubj at Spec-C over the one at Spec-T for phonological interpreta-
tion by (78d). One possibility is to hypothesize that copies at the edge of a phase win over ones
within the interior of the same phase. I will leave this issue for future research.
188	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
		b′.	
KSubj
[Nom,vQ,vφ]
C
[Nom]
T
[v φ
φ
] KSubj
[Nom,vQ,v ]
v∗
Transfer
		c.	 {KSubj, C}
		c′.	
K C
[Nom, vQ,vφ] [Nom]
(83) summarizes the relevant steps in the C-phase-level linearization. For V2, the
important step is the application of category-specific rule (78c) at (83g). Other
than this rule, the basic structure is linearized by the head-final rule for [+V] in
(78b) and the movement rule in (78d), with the help of the Order Preservation
Convention (71).
	(83)	German:
		a.	 (KSubj) ≫ derD ≫ JungeN (= Lin(KSubj-phase), (80a))
		b.	KObj ≫ denD ≫ ApfelN ≫ gegessenV ≫ (v*) (= Lin(v*-phase), (81d))
		c.	 hatT ≫ C and delete other copies of hatT ((82b-ii) and (78d))
		d.	KSubj ≫ Lin({C, {T, {KSubj, v*}}}) and delete other copies of KSubj
 ((82b-i) and (78d))
		e.	 KSubj ≫ v*({KSubj, v*} via (78b))
		f.	 KSubj ≫ v* ≫ hatT ({T, {KSubj, v*}} via (78b))
		g.	 (C) ≫ KSubj ≫ v* ≫ hatT ({C, {T, {KSubj, v*}}} via (78c))
		h.	(KSubj) ≫ (C) ≫ KSubj ≫ v* ≫ hatT (= Lin(82b-i))
		i.	 (KSubj) ≫ derD ≫ JungeN ≫ (C) ≫ KSubj ≫ v* ≫ hatT
 ((83a) + (83h) via (71a))
		j.	 (KSubj) ≫ derD ≫ JungeN ≫ (C) ≫ KSubj ≫ KObj ≫ denD ≫ ApfelN ≫
gegessenV ≫ v* ≫ hatT ((83b) + (83i) via (71b))
	 ∴	k.	(KSubj) ≫ derD ≫ JungeN ≫ hatT ≫ (C) ≫ KSubj ≫ KObj ≫ denD ≫ ApfelN
≫ gegessenV ≫ v* ≫ hatT (= Lin(C-phase), (83c) + (83j) via (71a))
Again, readers are invited to confirm the validity of each step in (83).
Undoubtedly, many ramifications of the proposed MHD-based theory of lin-
earization are left for future research. However, it should be clear from the discus-
sion above that no recourse to representational labels/projections or c-command
is necessary to account for surface word orders. Thus, all that the children need to
	 Chapter 4.  Cyclic Spell-Out of projection-free syntax	 189
learn from external data are the base head-initial or head-final rules such as (58)
and (59), some of which may be further specified with respect to lexical features of
head LIs ([+N], [+V], C, etc., as in German (78)). This is not a difficult task, given
that the number of rules to be learned is very restricted in the first place, and that
the overarching constraint of the ESC will severely restricts the space of hypoth-
eses to be tested against external data (recall § 3.7). Word order is something that
primary linguistic data provide ample cues for, so it is plainly reasonable to let the
“second factor” of FL design (external data) take partial responsibility for the learn-
ing of linearization rules, thereby reducing the burden of the unexplained “first
factor” (genetic endowment). This is quite a desirable consequence, approaching
the MP’s desideratum of reducing the number of stipulations in the first factor to
its bare minimum.
4.5	 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, various versions of the ESC were reviewed and compared with my
projection-free, precedence-free conception of the ESC established in Chapter 3.
It was observed that Uriagereka’s (1999) LCA-based ESC, though motivated by
his sound and serious criticism of label-based stipulations in Kayne’s original
LCA, nevertheless fails to achieve the empirical result he had in mind, namely
the deduction of the CED. Sheehan’s (2009, 2010, 2013a, b) unsuccessful attempt
at resuscitating Uriagereka’s LCA adds another set of label-based stipulations
while failing to appreciate the importance of Uriagereka’s criticism, and thereby
incorporates fundamental inadequacies of both Kayne’s and Uriagereka’s LCAs. I
concluded that the LCA is irrelevant to the account of CED effects and has in fact
no place in projection-free syntax. While Kayne’s (2011) attempt at transposing
the idea of antisymmetry into the p-merge theory successfully eliminates recourse
to labels/nonterminals and also the LCA, it at the same time fails to appreciate
the fundamental desideratum of bare phrase structure, namely to eradicate linear
order from NS.
An alternative approach was articulated in § 4.4. In a nutshell, the proposal
resurrects the insight behind the traditional directionality parameters, but from
the perspective of MHD: SOs of the form {H, α} generated by EM are mapped to
either H ≫ α or α ≫ H depending on the lexical property of the head H, while
{H, α} generated by movement operations (IM or head-movement) is universally
mapped to H ≫ α, with other copies of H deleted. I further proposed the Order
Preservation Convention (71), which can be understood as a natural extension
of the PIC, as it serves to maximally preserve the phonological coherence of each
phase at PHON. While this proposal is not intended to derive strong antisymmetry
190	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
(or the questionable universal word order template) from the core architecture of
syntax, it is arguably the first theory of linearization that successfully eliminates
recourse to labels and c-command while still relegating precedence and linear
order to the post-NS mapping to PHON. The desideratum of bare phrase struc-
ture is thus sustained, and the formulation of Merge is kept in its simplest form,
namely just set-formation free from linear order. Furthermore, it may be worth
stressing that phase cyclicity plays a vital role in the proposed theory of lineariza-
tion. The empirical thesis of phase-by-phase derivation is thus correspondingly
corroborated as well.
chapter 5
Full Interpretation all the way through
5.1	 Introduction
As noted at the beginning of Chapter 3, the present approach to projection-free
syntax is in part motivated by the desire to capture endocentricity of phrase struc-
ture without recourse to representational labels and projection.
	(1)	
Endocentricity (headedness) of phrase structure:
		 The interpretive properties of a phrase Σ are determined largely by the features
of a prominent LI within Σ (referred to as the head of Σ).
I specifically argued that the mechanism of head-detection can be reduced to mini-
mal search of an LI for each phrase. The proposed mechanism, which is adapted
from a different framework proposed by Chomsky (2012, 2013), was referred to
as Minimal Head Detection (MHD):
	(2)	
Minimal Head Detection (MHD):
		 For each SO Σ, define the most prominent LI within Σ as the head of Σ.
The effect of MHD is essentially that for any SO {H, α}, where H is an LI and α
an SO, H is the head of {H, α}. No notion of representational labels/projection is
implied in this minimal theory of endocentricity, thus keeping to the SMT.
In the preceding discussion, we identified a number of empirical consequences
derived from MHD. We first saw in Chapter 3 that the consistent and efficient
satisfaction of endocentricity via MHD imposes a rather stringent constraint on
syntactic computation, i.e., the Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC), which
derives various attested locality constraints in syntax. We further saw in Chapter 4
that endocentricity via MHD also provides a minimal but sufficient basis for lin-
earization at Spell-Out.
Further consequences and ramifications will be discussed in this chapter.
§ 5.2 will first discuss the notion of endocentricity as an interface phenome-
non. I will argue that we can entirely eliminate recourse to endocentricity in
the domain of narrow syntax (NS) (§ 5.2.1). Various head-dependent notions,
such as “Specifier” and “edge-feature,” will be shown to be eliminable in favor
of unconstrained Merge, too (§ 5.2.2 and § 5.2.3). I will further discuss how the
effect of MHD arises post-NS both at SEM and at PHON, essentially as a result
192	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
of third-factor principles of Minimal Computation (MC) (§ 5.2.4). Finally, the
question of the scope of Full Interpretation (FI) will be discussed in § 5.3, spe-
cifically addressing the issues of movement traces and various other exocentric
structures.
5.2	 Endocentricity as an interface phenomenon
Recall the hypothesis presented earlier that endocentricity via MHD is just a cover
term for the simplest mode of compositional interpretation, minimized inspection
of interpretive features of LIs at Interpret/Spell-Out. The hypothesis is termed the
Optimal Compositionality Thesis (OCT), reproduced here.
	(3)	
Optimal Compositionality Thesis (OCT):
		 Endocentricity (head-detection) reduces to the minimized inspection of fea-
tures of LIs relevant to compositional interpretation at Interpret/Spell-Out.
Note that (3) holds that endocentricity is assigned to SOs only at Interpret/Spell-
Out. If this assumption is on the right track, the prediction would be (4):
	 (4)	 The effect of endocentricity (interpretive centrality of head LIs) plays no role
in NS.
This is because Interpret and Spell-Out are post-NS operations applying only after
Merge generates the relevant input SOs and subjects them to Transfer. Every op-
eration in NS, which is by definition before Interpret/Spell-Out, should therefore
have no access to endocentricity via MHD.
(4) is clearly contrary to the conventional theory of labeled phrase structure,
where a variety of syntactic operations are stipulated to make recourse to repre-
sentational labels/projection. Therefore, a careful examination is in order, a task
that we will undertake in § § 5.2.1–5.2.2. Notice that the hypothesis in (4) can be
explored only in projection-free syntax, which eradicates any form of nonterminal
symbols from NS and dissociates the concept of endocentricity from these stipula-
tive devices. Therefore, so long as (4) is on the right track, the empirical strength
of projection-free syntax is correspondingly corroborated.
5.2.1	 Head-independence of narrow-syntactic operations
The effect of endocentricity (via MHD) clearly figures in the compositional inter-
pretation of SEM, and presumably in linearization, too (see Chapter 4). In contrast,
it is not obvious whether endocentricity has any effect on the computation of NS.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 193
The answer to this question will depend on whether there are any NS-operations
whose application is clearly based on the endocentricity of SOs.
The following is a list of the most obvious candidates for the relevant operations:
	 (5)	a.	 Merge
		 b.	 Agree (probe-goal search)
		c.	 Transfer
		 d.	
Selection (c(ategorial)-selection, subcategorization, θ-role assignment,
etc.)
As we will see shortly, there is no clear evidence for the relevance of endocentricity
to any of these operations.
First, consider Agree (5b). As reviewed in Chapter 2, Agree consists of two
components, Search and Value.
	(6)	
Agree:
		a.	 Search:
			 An LI P with an unvalued feature F [uF] probes into its sister for the closest
matching valued feature [vF] of a goal LI G.
		b.	Value:
			 The value of [vF] is copied onto [uF].
	(7)	
P
[uF]
G
[vF]
Search
P
[v F]
G
[v F]
Value
As noted by Chomsky (2004: 113), Agree (5b) is just a relation between two LIs (or
their shared features), and Agree requires simply that the “probe” LI P c-command
the “goal” LI G (i.e., that P is merged with an SO containing G; recall also that we
may also dispense with the structural notion of c-command in favor of minimal
probe-goal search; see § 4.2.4). It has sometimes been stipulated that Agree relates
P to the projection of G rather than to G itself (see, e.g., Hornstein 2009: Chapter 3
and Ott 2011a: § 3.1.2), but so long as P c-commands G’s projection, it follows that
P c-commands G itself, too. Thus, no stipulation of endocentricity is necessary in
the formulation of Agree.
Consider Transfer (5c) next. As established in Chapter 2, Transfer is an op-
eration that cyclically strips off a certain domain of each phase (the interior) and
subjects it to the mappings to SEM and PHON (Interpret and Spell-Out). The
definition of Transfer in (76) of Chapter 2 is reproduced in (8).
194	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(8)	
Transfer:
		 Applied to a set of root SOs {Σ1, …, Σn}, Transfer
		 a.	 identifies copies within Σ1, …, Σn via (9),
		 b.	 subjects the largest possible convergent term Σ′i of each Σi to Interpret
and Spell-Out, and
		 c.	 eliminates the sum of Σ′i (called the interior of a phase) from the workspace
of NS.
	(9)	
Copy-identification:
		 All and only repetitions (feature-values or SOs) introduced simultaneously
with Transfer are copies of elements within the phase.
As desired, the working of Transfer is defined purely structurally: the interior of a
phase is defined as the sum of the largest convergent terms of the relevant phase,
and the edge of the phase is the domain that is not subsumed in the interior.
Again, no recourse to projection or endocentricity is necessary in the formula-
tion of Transfer (5c). It is true that “phase-head” LIs (C, v, P, etc.) play a major role
in demarcating phases, but only indirectly, due to the structural requirement of
convergence (see § 2.5.2).
Furthermore, c(ategorial)-selection and subcategorization are most likely
reducible to s(emantic)-selection (Pesetsky 1982), which plays virtually no role
in NS (Chomsky 2004: 112–113). One piece of evidence for this is that violation
of selectional restrictions is relatively common, and it often does not result in
clear-cut unacceptability, as illustrated by the following examples (see Chomsky
1955/1975b, 1965, Chomsky 2004: 112, Ott 2009, 2010, Boeckx 2010b for much
relevant discussion of the notion of degrees of grammaticality).1
	 (10)	 a.	 The factory horns sirened throughout the raid. (Borer 2005: 8)
		 b.	 The factory horns sirened midday and everyone broke for lunch.
		 c.	 The police car sirened the Porsche to a stop.
		 d.	 The police car sirened up to the accident site.
		 e.	 The police car sirened the daylight out of me.
This suggests that selection is a matter of extra-grammatical concern. Presumably,
CI just retroactively assigns selectional interpretations to whatever SOs it receives
from NS, yielding various degrees of deviance. Then, selection is by and large a
matter of post-NS concern, and hence irrelevant to the discussion of NS.2
1.	 Compare it with, e.g., the failure of narrow-syntactic subject-verb agreement: *you is a hero,
*we loves Mary, and so on, yielding uniformly strong deviance.
2.	 The role of endocentricity in selection has been reduced anyway since the proliferation of
functional categories, such as the DP-analysis of nominals (Brame 1981, 1982, Fukui & Speas
1986, Fukui 1986/1995b, Abney 1987) further refined by Grimshaw (Grimshaw 1991/2005 et
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 195
This leaves us with Merge (5a), the most fundamental operation of NS. The
theory of bare phrase structure imposes the simplest formulation of Merge, namely
that its application is truly unconstrained. Empirically, unconstrained Merge pro-
vides a principled explanation of the discrete infinity of human language. It also
explains the ubiquity of displacement phenomena (with reconstruction effects),
as it characterizes movement (with copy theory) as a result of free application of
IM. Any stipulations that depart from unconstrained Merge will lose accounts of
these fundamental facts about human language, and hence they will bear a heavy
burden of proof. Then, the simplest assumption is that anything can be merged
with anything, irrespective of the endocentricity of the SOs.
Although endocentricity has often been viewed as a prerequisite for Merge-
application, the next section will provide arguments for the view that the simplest,
truly unconstrained conception of Merge should be favored.
5.2.2	 Eliminating the Merge-to-Head hypothesis and edge-features
Is Merge constrained, in any way, by endocentricity/headedness? Optimally, Merge
is an unconstrained operation that can apply to any SOs. Importantly, however,
it has been predominantly assumed in the literature that at each application of
Merge, the merging phrase is always selected or attracted by a certain head of the
Merge-mate. This conventional hypothesis can be stated as (11).
	 (11)	 Merge always takes the form of selection/attraction of an SO by a head LI.
For example, the distinction between the specifier and the complement of a single
head H has been commonly characterized as first-merged and later-merged to H
(Chomsky 2007a: 11; 2008: 146). The fact that (11) is commonly assumed in the lit-
erature is presumably due to the heavy influence of earlier X-bar theory (Chomsky
1970 et seq.), and also the earlier assumption that movement was an imperfection
and had to be motivated (“last resort”; Chomsky 1986b, 1995b).
So long as (11) holds, it clearly underscores the relevance of endocentricity
in the domain of syntactic computation, which would pose a problem to our ap-
proach to endocentricity as an interface (post-NS) phenomenon. Fortunately, a
closer examination suggests that the stipulation in (11) is entirely eliminable, as
we will see below.
seq.), the fine structure of the left periphery (Rizzi 1997 et seq.), and all the later expansion
made by the Cinquean cartography project (Cinque 1999, 2002, Rizzi 2004). See also Grimshaw
(1991/2005 et seq.) for the notion of “extended projections” that is put forward as a way to deal
with the selection problem in the framework of expanded cartography. See § 4.3.3 for discussion
on cartography.
196	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
One of the most generalized formulations of (11) is put forward by Chomsky
(2007a, 2008), who makes crucial recourse to the notion of edge-feature (EF).
Consider the following passage from Chomsky (2007a):
If an element Z (lexical or constructed) enters into further computations, then
some information about it is relevant to this option: at the very least, a property
that states that Z can be merged, but presumably more, it is commonly assumed.
The optimal assumption is that this information is provided by a designated mini-
mal element of Z, a lexical item W (Z itself, if it is an LI), which is detectable by a
simple algorithm; the label of Z, the head projected in X-bar theories.
 (Chomsky 2007a: 9)
Chomsky is proposing here that endocentricity is a necessary condition for Merge-
application.3 He claims that there is a “simple algorithm” of head-detection in NS
that can identify a designated minimal LI W within Z that provides for Z, among
other things, the property that states that Z can be merged with some SO. This
property is what Chomsky (2008) calls the edge-feature (EF) of LIs. Regarding
the characterization of EFs, Chomsky (2008) specifically provides the following
remark:
For an LI to be able to enter into a computation, merging with some SO, it must
have some property permitting this operation. A property of an LI is called a
feature, so an LI has a feature that permits it to be merged. Call this the edge-
feature (EF) of the LI. If an LI lacks EF, it can only be a full expression in itself; an
interjection. When merged with a syntactic object SO, LI forms {LI, SO}; SO is
its complement. The fact that Merge iterates without limit is a property at least of
LIs – and optimally, only of LIs, as I will assume. (Chomsky 2008: 139)
Here, Chomsky proposes that (12) is the effect that the notion of EF should capture:
	(12)	Edge-features (EF) (Chomsky’s 2008 version):
		 a.	 The EF is the feature that permits its bearer to be merged with some SO.
		 b.	 The EF is a property only of LIs.
One way to make sense of (12a) is to assume that the EF is the feature that consti-
tutes the locus, or trigger, of Merge-application. The EF would then be reminiscent
of the earlier “EPP-feature” of Chomsky (1995b), which is essentially a feature that
states, “I need a specifier.” Generalizing to the merger of “complement” along the
lines suggested by Chomsky, we may say that the EF is the property of LIs that
states, “I may have a sister.” Assuming that only LIs have EFs (12b), Chomsky
3.	 Although the relevant notion is called the “label,” it is clear that no notion of represen-
tational labels or projection of features is implied in Chomsky’s theory.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 197
proposes that for a phrasal SO Z to be subjected to Merge, NS must first inspect
the internal constitution of Z and find the EF of the head LI W. That is, the EF must
be “projected” from a head LI to a phrasal SO in order for anything to be merged
to the phrasal SO.
	 (13)	 Application of Merge to an SO Σ is contingent on the EF of the head LI of Σ.
In this way, Chomsky reformulates the common conception of Merge as “attrac-
tion” to the head LI (the traditional assumption in (11)) by making recourse to
the notion of EF.
However, whether the stipulation in (11)/(13) is empirically adequate is ques-
tionable. First and foremost, this restriction on Merge is a departure from the
overarching hypothesis of unconstrained Merge, and hence should be avoided un-
less strong evidence is provided. Moreover, Noam Chomsky (p.c.) points out that
there are clear cases where the hypothesis of unconstrained Merge makes superior
predictions. Thus, he notes in his comments on Narita (2011):
In the background are two different conceptions of composition. Should Merge be
attraction to the head, in which case we have first-Merge (complement), second-
Merge (SPEC), questions about additional Merge? Or should Merge just be as
stated in the simplest version, Merge(X,Y) = {X,Y}, heads irrelevant? The former
was the conception in X-bar theory and its descendants, connected with the uni-
versal endocentricity assumption [to be discussed in § 5.3.5, HN]. The latter is
simpler, and also has empirical advantages I think – e.g., successive-cyclic move-
ment, where properties of the head are irrelevant.
Indeed, there is no clear sense in which successive cyclic movement is contingent
in any way on properties of head LIs: thus, IM of a wh-phrase to the edge of v (as
in, e.g., what did you t buy t?) does not depend on any lexical properties of v, or of
the wh-phrase for that matter.4 The existence of such “head-independent” merger
clearly fares well with the unconstrained conception of Merge. Further, it is also
worth noting that the EF is originally proposed in Chomsky (2008) as a feature
that distinguishes mergeable LIs from non-mergeable LIs like interjections or fro-
zen expressions, and it was a highly theory-internal decision to make use of this
concept in formulating the “Merge-as-attraction-to-the-head” hypothesis as above,
unwarranted as it stands now. Then, for the sake of pushing further the hypothesis
of unconstrained Merge, we need to eliminate the head-dependent conception
4.	 It has been customary to describe the movement as “head-dependent,” as in Chomsky
(2000a, 2001), where it is proposed that the movement is dependent on (or triggered by) the
optionally assigned EPP-feature of v. But such a restriction of the applicability of Merge is a
departure from the SMT, as pointed out by Chomsky (2008).
198	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
of Merge in (11)/(13) (see also Boeckx 2008a, 2010a and Fukui 2011 for related
discussion). This approach may further render the notion of EF dispensable in the
theory of bare phrase structure, a desirable result.
Incidentally, this conclusion is incompatible with the hypothesis presented
in my earlier work (Narita 2009c, 2011, 2012b, d), which holds that the effect of
the ESC (referred to as the H-α schema therein) may alternatively be deduced
from the property of EFs of LIs. In a nutshell, this approach adopts the stipulation
in (13) that every application of Merge is contingent on the EF of head LIs, and
maintains that, therefore, the EF can only permit its bearer LI H to be subjected
to Merge with SOs. Merger of two phrasal SOs is excluded, due to the simple fact
that no phrasal SOs (non-LIs) have EFs by definition (assuming no mechanism of
projection/percolation of EFs).
	(14)	HEF + SO		 	{HEF , SO}
			 Merge	 (* {HEF , SO}EF )
Narita (2009c, 2011, 2012b, 2012d) argues that, therefore, all instances of Merge
are required to take an LI as at least one of their inputs, utilizing its EF as a locus
of the Merge operation. The following format on Merge, called the H-α schema, is
thus deduced from the properties of EFs in (12) and the lack of feature-percolation
thereof.
	(15)	H-α Schema (Narita 2009c, 2011, 2012b, d): Merge(H, α) → {H, α}.
		 Merge must take at least one LI as its input.
(15) effectively yields the universal LI-SO branching pattern, essentially the effect
of the ESC.
Clearly, (15) departs from the theory of unconstrained Merge in that it sub-
scribes to the Merge-is-always-to-the-head stipulation (11), an unwarranted resi-
due of labeled phrase structure that should be eliminated in favor of the SMT. In
this respect, I concur with Fukui (2011) and Ott (2012, in press) in regarding my
earlier H-α schema (15) as a stipulative complication of UG: the premise of (12),
borrowed from Chomsky (2008), was clearly unwarranted. See § 5.3.2 for related
discussion.
Fortunately, the hypothesis that the ESC can be derived from MHD and the
OCT is unaffected (as was also explicitly discussed in Narita 2011, 2012b, too). It
makes no recourse to (11) or to EFs, thereby overcoming conceptual difficulties
inevitable in my earlier theory of the H-α schema.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 199
5.2.3	 Phasing out specifiers
We have seen that none of the operations listed in (5) (Merge, Agree, Transfer,
selection) makes recourse to endocentricity, while the interpretive effect of endo-
centricity is entirely reducible to post-NS minimal inspection of LIs at Interpret
and Spell-Out. Thus, NS appears to be free from any head-dependent operation,
just like it is free from any linear-dependent (structure-independent) operations
(see the discussion in § 2.2.1). Pursuing this line of analysis, I will argue in this
section that the endocentricity-dependent notion of “specifier” can also be entirely
eliminated from the theory of NS.
5.2.3.1	 Minimal search and specifiers
The notion of “complement,” or the structural relation referred to as “head-comple-
ment,” is relatively easy to capture in terms of projection-free syntax, as long as the
ESC gives rise to uniform H-α branching of linguistic constituents. The essential
property of head-complement structures, according to the traditional view, lies in
the asymmetry between the relevant sisters: the head is an LI, whereas the comple-
ment is a non-LI/phrase. If we keep to that much, then the ESC always generates
“head-complement” structures, informally speaking. Hence, MHD unambiguously
singles out the relevant LI H as the head of {H, α}, whose semantic features serve
as the prime agent for the compositional interpretation assigned to {H, α}.
The properties of canonical head-complement structures are easily explained
by MHD. Other cases are less straightforward, though. At this point, it should be
noted that MHD, when combined with the ESC, makes some predictions that are
quite different from the ones made by traditional theories of labeling by projection.
One of the most notable differences arises for cases of “specifier”-merger: to take
a representative example, consider cases where IM moves Y to the “specifier” of
X, creating an SO of the form:
	 (16)	 a.	 {Y, {X, [ . . . tY . . . ]}}.
		b.	
Y
X
...tY
...
Examples are A-moved K and A′-moved Q (= K; see § 3.4.2.3).
	 (17)	 a.	 {K, {T, [ . . . tK . . . ]}}.
		b.	
K
T
...tK
...
200	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	 (18)	 a.	 {Q, {C, [ . . . tQ . . . ]}}.
		b.	
Q
C
...tQ
...
For such configurations, MHD will unambiguously identify the moved element
as the head of the structure. Thus, it is the EPP-raised subject K, not T, that will be
the head of {K, {T, [ . . . tK . . . ]}}, and it is the wh-moved Q, not C, that will be the
head of {Q, {C, [ . . . tQ . . . ]}}, and so on.
More generally, MHD and the ESC fundamentally predict that there is no
notion of “specifier” available (cf. Hoekstra 1991, Starke 2004, Jayaseelan 2008,
Chomsky 2012, 2013 and Lohndal 2012). Notice that the earlier concept of
X-bar-theoretic “projection paths” not only representationally signifies the cen-
trality of the head LI for the relevant phrases, but also singles out structural
notions like “head,” along with “Spec(ifier)” and “complement.” For example,
α qualifies as the specifier of X, and β the complement of X for the labeled
phrase-marker in (19).
	(19)	 XP
α
...
X′
X β
...
In this manner, the label-based characterization of endocentricity gives rise to
structural relations like “head,” “complement,” and “specifier,” which I take to
be one of the fundamental functions that has been attributed to labeling by
projection:
	 (20)	 Labeling by projection defines structural notions like “head,” “complement”
and “specifier” for each phrasal SO.
However, if NS makes no recourse to labels or projection or endocentricity, the
structure corresponding to (20) is nothing more than the set-theoretic object in
(21), where no representational trick is immediately available to characterize such
notions like “head,” “complement” or “specifier.”
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 201
	(21)	a.	 {α, {X, β}}
		b.	
α
…
X β
…
What is more, the ESC excludes the possibility of “XP-YP” merger as a matter of
principle. Then, it must be the case that α can never be phrasal. Therefore, a more
straightforward representation of the SO corresponding to (21) would be (22),
where Y represents an LI:
	 (22)	 a.	 {Y, {X, β}}
		b.	
Y
X β
…
Nothing will prevent MHD from singling out Y as the head of this SO, and only
stipulations can ensure that the structure is headed by X, containing Y as the
specifier of X. Correspondingly, the MHD-based theory of endocentricity provides
no room for the notion of “specifier,” a conclusion that has been envisaged and
investigated independently by Hoekstra (1991), Starke (2004), Jayaseelan (2008),
Chomsky (2012, 2013) and Lohndal (2012) on different grounds.
It is instructive to attend closer to the way the notion of specifier has been used
in traditional linguistic analysis. As far as I can see, the following can be pointed
out as the major function of the “specifier-of” relation:
	(23)	Specifier Stipulation:
		 The specifier of an LI H is an SO that is structurally higher than H, but still
marked as subsidiary to (or “governed by”) H in the computation of SEM.
Various effects have been attributed to this hypothesis, some of the major ones
being listed in (24).
	 (24)	 If an SO Ω is the specifier of an LI H,
		a.	 Pied-piping: Ω is to be pied-piped by the movement/attraction of H.
		b.	Selection from above: An LI X externally merged with {Ω, {H, . . . }}
			 will be able to select the categorial (and sub-categorial) feature of H.
		c.	 Spec-head licensing: Some special relation is to be established between H
and Ω (morphological agreement, θ-marking, etc.).
202	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
However, we may question whether the specifier stipulation (23) really receives
empirical support from considerations in (24).
5.2.3.2	 Specifiers in pied-piping
Among the possibilities in (24), we can immediately discard the relevance of pied-
piping (24a) from our discussion: recall the discussion in Chapter 3 that the ESC
dispenses with the notion of pied-piping as well as XP-movement altogether from
the theory of NS. Their effects instead arise just as a consequence of cyclic deriva-
tion by phase. In the pursuit of the ESC, the analysis of pied-piping sometimes
needs to take advantage of covert higher phase-head LIs like K(ase) (see § 3.4.2.2),
and Cable’s (2007, 2010) Q, the latter of which was shown in § 3.4.2.3 to be analyz-
able as a variety of K. This may at first glance strike readers as a kind of worrisome
cartography expansion. However, recall from § 3.7 that once infants are armed
with a strong analytical tool like the ESC, the acquisition of such LIs from exter-
nal linguistic data will be a relatively easy task to accomplish. Most importantly,
the task is free from the complication that the previous X-bar-theoretic approach
required: the child can detect and acquire such LIs without assigning to them any
extraneous notions like “head of X” or “specifier of X.” Various cues are available
in overt evidence, and all the child needs to find is either (i) overt morphological
realization of such LIs, or (ii) overt movement of the relevant (apparently phrasal)
constituent. For K, the grammar of English signifies its presence by movement,
whereas languages like Japanese also choose overt realization of case-particles (see
also note 31 of Chapter 3).
	(25)	English:
		a.	 [K the boy]i ti hit Mary.
		b.	[K the boy]i was called ti by his teacher yesterday.
	(26)	Japanese:
		 a.	 [sono otokonoko -gaK] [Mary -oK]	tataita.
				that	boy	 -nom	 Mary -acc hit
			 ‘That boy hit Mary.’
		 b.	 [Mary -oK]i [sono otokonoko -gaK] ti tataita.
			 Mary	-acc	that	 boy	 -nom	hit
			 ‘That boy hit Mary.’
For Q, i.e., K with [+WH] according to § 3.4.2.3, English again resorts to move-
ment to signal its presence, whereas languages like Tlingit also assign overt mor-
phology to it.
	(27)	a.	 [Q what]i did you see ti?
		b.	[Q whose mother]i did you see ti?
		c.	 [Q at which station]i did you see John ti?
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 203
	(28)	Tlingit: Wh-pied-piping structures (Cable 2010)
		 a.	 [Aadóo	yaagú	 sá]	ysiteen?
				who	 boat	 Q	 you.saw.it
			 ‘Whose boat did you see?’
		 b.	 [Aadóo 	teen sá]	yeegoot?
				who	 with	Q	 you.went
			 ‘Who did you go with?’
		c.	 [Daakw	keitl	sá]	asháa?
				which	 dog	 Q	 it.barks
			 ‘Which dog is barking?’
		 d.	 [[Wáa	kwligeyi]	 xáat sá] I	 tuwáa sigó o?
				 how it.is.big.rel fish	 Q	 your spirit	 it.is.glad
			 ‘How big a fish do you want?’ (Lit. ‘A fish that is how big do you want?’)
Thus, these functional categories are compliant with what Fukui & Sakai (2003: 327;
see also Thráinsson 1996) call the Visibility Guideline for Functional Categories (re-
produced here as (29)), which holds that functional categories have to be visible
(i.e., detectable) in the primary linguistic data, simplifying the problem of learn-
ability, and restricting the number of functional categories.
	(29)	Visibility Guideline for Functional Categories (Fukui & Sakai 2003: 327; see
also Thráinsson 1996):
		 A functional category has to be visible (i.e., detectable) in the primary linguistic
data.
To the extent that there is a plausible theory of how these functional categories can
be identified by a child learner, the problem of pied-piping of specifiers becomes
less of a concern.
5.2.3.3	 Selection and specifiers
The specifier stipulation was also used in earlier labeling-by-projection approaches
as a way to capture the following effect on selection:
	(30)	Selection from above: If an SO Ω is the specifier of an LI H, an LI X externally
merged with {Ω, {H, 
. 
. 
. 
}} will be able to select the categorial (and sub-
categorial) feature of H.
For example, a V touch is lexically specified as taking a [+concrete] object as its
Theme argument, and if this V is externally merged with the object [[the govern-
ment’s] spokesman], it was said that V could somehow “reach” the relevant lexical
feature of the N spokesman, even though it has [–concrete] NP as its specifier. The
effect is even more striking when the NP contains modifiers (the government’s
three intelligent spokesmen). In a similar vein, it was said that Vs like ask, won-
der, . . . are lexically specified as selecting a [+WH]-marked CP, think, assume, . . .
204	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
a [–WH]-marked CP, and know a CP without specifying [±WH] (see Pesetsky
1982 et seq.). More generally, selection and subcategorization used to make major
recourse to (then narrow-syntactic) endocentricity in earlier theories of UG.
Be that as it may, we have already established in § 5.2.1 that selection (catego-
rial or semantic) plays virtually no role in NS. Then, we have little reason to resort
to the specifier stipulation.
However, I would like to remark on one prominent residue of selection from
above: the C-T dependency. It is generally acknowledged that the finiteness and
tense properties of T strongly depend on the C that “selects” T from above. Thus,
the form of modals in T is largely determined by the type of C (and indirectly the
verb that selects such clauses), as in (31). Also, it is generally assumed that a tense-
less infinitival is a clause without C, exemplified by the raising infinitival in (32b)
and the ECM infinitival in (33b), and that these clauses’ defective tense properties
result from a lack of C. Consider also the distinction between control infinitivals
and raising/ECM infinitivals, which has been predominantly characterized in the
literature by the assumption that control infinitivals are CP whereas raising/ECM
infinitivals are TP (Chomsky 1981; see also Chomsky & Lasnik 1977, Stowell 1981,
Bresnan 1972, Martin 2001).
	 (31)	 a.	 John demands [thatC his son beT brought to the emergency room]
		 b.	 John thought [thatC his son wasT sick for a while].
	 (32)	 a.	 It seems [thatC his son wasT brought to the emergency room]
		 b.	 His son seems [TP toT have been brought to the emergency room]
	 (33)	 a.	 John believes [thatC his son isT a genius]
		 b.	 John believes [TP his son toT be a genius]
This is by no means a language-specific property of English, and there are count-
less other observations which seem to point to the same conclusion: T’s properties
strongly depend on C. This C-T relation has been characterized in numerous ways,
most notably by assuming that some special selectional relation is established be-
tween C and T (c-selection, government, etc.). Importantly, the relevant relation
cannot be something that arises post-NS, given that it has various syntactic conse-
quences. For example, the presence of subject-verb agreement features ([uφ]) on T
and Nominative Case on the subject are determined by the presence of C (Iatridou
1993, Watanabe 1996, Chomsky 2000a, 2001, Richards 2007b). In light of these
phenomena, it is not reasonable to expect that we can reduce such prominent and
ubiquitous syntactic C-T relations to post-NS interpretive factors.
It should be noted in this context that the “specifier” of T is prototypically
occupied by the A-moved subject KP in languages like English. If we draw the
traditional labeled phrase structure for the TP-configuration, then, it may first
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 205
appear that such KP-raising would not interfere with the close proximity of C and
T, given that the complement of C is anyway “labeled” T. This is in fact what has
been thoroughly assumed in the past literature, hinging on the specifier stipulation.
	(34)	 CP
C TP
KP T′
T vP
…tKP
…
However, the theory of bare phrase structure cannot blame the C-T relation on
labeling by projection anymore. Then, how can we make sense of the strong syn-
tactic bond between C and T, without making recourse to labeling by projection
or the specifier stipulation?
Recall the hypothesis established in Chapter 2 that applications of EM are
required to precede IM and all the other operations applying at a phase level.
Specifically, it was assumed that EM of T and C precedes the EPP-driven
A-movement of the subject K. Due to the No-Tampering Condition (NTC), in-
ternal merger of K yields the following two-rooted structure at the C-phase level.
	(35)	a.	
C
[Nom]
T
[uφ]
K
[uCase,vφ]
v∗
[Acc,vφ]
(= (61), Chapter2; (69), Chapter4)

		b.	
C
[Nom]
K
T
[v φ]
K
[Nom ,vφ]
v∗
Transfer
[Acc,vφ]
		c.	
			 C
			 [Nom]
206	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
This structural representation radically departs from the traditional conception
of labeled phrase structure. The internally merged “specifier” K and the externally
merged C are “on different planes,” so to speak, and they are both as close to T as
one can get. Thus, the relevant syntactic relation between C and T can be naturally
established by structural minimality.
Chomsky (2007a, 2008) and Richards (2007b) claim that the close affinity be-
tween C and T is parallel to the relation between v* and V (accompanying object
agreement morphemes in some languages), as well as the one between a catego-
rizer head (v, n, a) and a root LI √root,5 so these relationships should be analyzed
in the same vein. If we adopt their hypothesis, then the same account sketched
above can be strengthened to unify the accounts of these c-selection-like relations,
a desirable result.
Given these considerations, we can safely conclude that the specifier stipula-
tion is unnecessary for the explanation of “selection from above.” Such selectional
dependencies are readily reanalyzed either as post-NS semantic interpretations,
or as a result of structural minimality in cyclic derivation by phase.
5.2.3.4	 Spec-head licensing
Finally, let me remark on the last residue of the specifier stipulation (36)
	(36)	Spec-head licensing: If an SO Ω is the specifier of an LI H, some special relation
is to be established between H and Ω (morphological agreement, θ-marking,
etc.).
As far as so-called “spec-head agreement” phenomena are concerned, evidence is
accumulating for the view that such spec-head configurations should be treated as
resulting from some derivationally prior probe-goal relationship. To take subject-
T agreement as a representative example, it is now standardly assumed that this
relation is established by T’s [uφ] probing the [vφ] of the in-situ subject K, which
in some languages is accompanied by A-movement of the subject to the Spec-T
position, as we saw for English in (35). The apparent relation between the spec and
T then is just illusory, reducing to Agree with respect to φ-features and ancillary
IM. Pushing this line of approach to its limit, Chomsky (2004: 113) puts forward
the empirical thesis that all apparent spec-head relations are illusory and are to
be reduced to probe-goal relations involving minimal search. Taking advantage
of this, I take it for granted that IMed specifiers in themselves have no special re-
lationship to any LI embedded in their sisters. That is, the higher occurrence of X
5.	 See Halle & Marantz (1993, 1994), Marantz (1996, 1997, 2007) among others for the
theory of Distributed Morphology.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 207
in {X, {H, { . . . X . . . }}} has no special relation to H – it is just merged with {H, { . . .
X . . . }}, not with H (contra Kayne’s 2011 treatment of specifier-merger; see § 4.3.2).
However, given that the argument above holds only for IMed specifiers, there
still remains the problem of the apparent relation between a head and an EMed
specifier. One of the most prominent examples concerns the relation between
v* and the external argument KP (EA). It is assumed that v* is the locus of the
Agent or Causer θ-role (henceforth the external θ-role), and that v* assigns this
θ-role to the EA occupying the (innermost) specifier of v* (Chomsky 1995b,
Kratzer 1996, 2000; see also Marantz 1984; see also Hale & Keyser 1993, 2002).
This was a relatively easy problem in the earlier X-bar-theoretic approach, where
the “projection of v*” governs the external argument, as in (37) (cf. the notion
of “m-command”):
	(37)	 v∗P
v∗′
EA
v∗ VP
V Obj
Again, however, such a representational trick with labeling/projection has no place
in the theory of bare phrase structure.
However, recall the derivation of the relevant merger of the EA and v*:
	(38)	a.	
K
D NP
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
(=(31)of Chapter3)
	
K
D NP
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
(=(31)of Chapter3)
	
K
D NP
v∗
V Obj
Transfer
(=(31)of Chapter3)

		b.
			 K	 v*	
												 Merge
		c.	
K v∗
We saw in Chapter 3 that phase-by-phase Transfer effectively reduces {v*, {V, Obj}}
to v*, and thus at the point of EM (38b), v* is just merged with the EA (or more
specifically the edge of the relevant K-phase left in the active workspace). Then, in
a certain sense, the EA occupies the “second complement” of v*, forming {EA, v*}.
I would like to maintain that this position is sufficient to guarantee the θ-role
assignment from v* to the EA. To be concrete, I propose that v*, or v in general,
contains the following semantic features (39):
208	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(39)	Semantic features of v:
		If v is singled out as the head of {v, α},
		a.	 v assigns a verbal interpretation to α in {v, α}.
		b.	v* assigns the external θ-role to α in {v*, α}, under the condition that α is
headed by K.
The effect of (39) is generally taken for granted in the current literature. (39a) takes
care of the semantic interpretation assigned to {v*, {V, Obj}}. I assume that this
feature is shared by v in general, so passive and unaccusative v also assume it. The
difference between v* and v then lies in that only v* assumes (39b) in addition to
(39a). The effect of (39b) arises when its sister SO is headed by K – basically the
case where v*, after Transferring VP, takes the EA as its second complement. Thus,
provided that MHD singles out v* as the head of {v*, EA}, K receives the external
θ-role from v*. This way, the assumption in (39) is sufficient to capture the effect
that was once attributed to the specifier stipulation.
To conclude this section, then, the phenomena in (41) are illusory, and there-
fore do not lend support to the specifier stipulation (40) anymore.
	(40)	Specifier Stipulation:
		 The specifier of an LI H is an SO that is structurally higher than H, but still
marked as subsidiary to (or “governed by”) H in the computation of SEM.
	 (41)	 If an SO Ω is the specifier of an LI H,
		a.	 Pied-piping: Ω is to be pied-piped by the movement/attraction of H.
		b.	Selection from above: An LI X externally merged with {Ω, {H, . . . }} will
be able to select the categorial (and sub-categorial) feature of H.
		c.	 Spec-head licensing: Some special relation is to be established between H
and Ω (morphological agreement, θ-marking, etc.).
Therefore, we can safely discard the specifier stipulation (40). This amounts to
the elimination of the notion of specifier altogether from the theory of syntax, a
conclusion independently argued for by Starke (2004), Jayaseelan (2008), Chomsky
(2012, 2013), and Lohndal (2012), among others, on different grounds.
5.2.4	 MHD and the third factor
I have by now argued that Merge, Agree, Transfer, and selection can all be de-
fined without making recourse to endocentricity or projection-based notions like
Specifier. This naturally leads us to the conclusion that endocentricity is purely a
post-NS “interface” phenomenon, an emergent property of Interpret and Spell-
Out, irrelevant to NS.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 209
Note that this conclusion is required for the principled account of endocentric-
ity discussed in this book, which holds that it optimally reduces to the simplest
mode of compositional interpretation via Interpret/Spell-Out (the OCT, (3)). Any
additional stipulations will require independent justification, and are thus disfa-
vored in face of the SMT.
This conclusion further undermines the rationale for labels/projections. Some
researchers maintain that syntactic representation of labels is required on grounds
of computational efficiency, insisting that it significantly contributes to reduction
of the search space, since labels, bearing all relevant features of the head LI, provide
“closer” goals for downward search than the head itself (see, e.g., Hornstein 2009:
Chapter 3 and Ott 2011a: § 3.1.2; recall the discussion on their conception of Agree
in § 5.2.1). However, this kind of argument has empirical force only under the as-
sumption that syntax executes computation on the basis of labels/endocentricity,
which is in itself an ill-advised premise and should be eliminated.
Before proceeding, I would like to comment on what may be referred to as
a “branching argument,” presented in my earlier work. While facing the lack of
strong evidence for representational labels, Narita (2009a) attempted to argue that
endocentricity must still be determined by some narrow syntactic computation,
because both post-NS components of LF and PF (Interpret and Spell-Out in present
terms) appear to make recourse to it. The argument can be summarized as follows.
	(42)	“Branching Argument” (Narita 2009a):
		 If NS constitutes the branch into Interpret and Spell-Out, and if both Interpret
and Spell-Out have access to the same information of endocentricity, then it
should be the case that endocentricity-assignment is an operation internal to
NS, i.e., before the derivation branches off into Interpret and Spell-Out.
However, this argument also loses its force in the present theory of MHD, for two
reasons. First, if we hypothesize that MHD derives from the third factor, i.e., physi-
cal and mathematical principles of MC not specific to any part of FL (Chomsky
2005, 2007a, 2008, 2012, 2013), then its effect is expected to appear in a domain-
general fashion. Therefore, it may well govern both Interpret and Spell-Out.
Moreover, if we are right in hypothesizing that Merge only generates endocentric
structures as a result of MC (MHD in service of FI; the ESC), then no independent
operation beside endocentric Merge is necessary to provide endocentricity-related
information for Interpret and Spell-Out.
However, the third-factor-based conception of MHD still leaves one important
residue of the branching argument unexplained, which has to do with merger of
two LIs: Merge(X, Y) = {X, Y}. Whether they are directly drawn from the Lexicon
or heads of a phase reduced by cyclic Transfer, X and Y are equally prominent in
{X, Y}, thus MHD may single out either X or Y as the head of this structure. In
210	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
cases where either X or Y undergoes subsequent IM, the semantic and phono-
logical features of tX/tY become irrelevant for the mappings to SEM and PHON
(see § 3.6.2 and § 4.4; see also § 5.3.2), thus SOs of the form {tX, Y} or {X, tY} pose
no problem in terms of MHD-based compositional interpretation. However, the
problem remains for cases where both X and Y remain in situ within {X, Y}. For
such an SO, it seems reasonable to expect that Interpret should be able to decide
on one LI X as the head while Spell-Out chooses the other LI Y as the head of the
same SO, provided that MHD reduces to post-NS minimal search applying inde-
pendently at Interpret and Spell-Out.
However, this is not what we find in natural language. For example, an external
argument K in many languages (Japanese, German, etc.) can stay in-situ in {K,
v*} (assuming prior applications of Transfer to the K-phase and the v*-phase). We
adopt the assumption that θ-marking from v* to K is achieved under the condition
that v* defines the head of such an SO (recall (39)), thus MHD applying at Interpret
should single out v* as the head of {K, v*}. Can, on the other hand, MHD choose K
as the head of the same SO for the purpose of Spell-Out? The answer appears to be
no, because if it could, then the general head-final linearization rule in languages
like Japanese would map the subject KP to the right of v*P at PHON, contrary to
fact (recall the discussion in § 4.4). More generally, it seems that endocentricity
for the merger of two LIs must always be coordinated at Interpret and Spell-Out,
exactly as depicted in (42).
Do we need to reinvoke the branching argument, in order to resolve the prob-
lem of {X, Y}? I argue for the negative answer to this question, for the following
reason: if we reintroduce some operation of head-determination into NS, it would
become mysterious why other NS-operations make virtually no recourse to endo-
centricity. Recall that we have already provided an answer to this why-question:
narrow-syntactic operations cannot refer to endocentricity because endocentricity
emerges only post-NS at Interpret and Spell-Out. If we keep this hypothesis, then
we must eliminate the branching argument (42). Further, the MHD-as-the-third-
factor hypothesis is also necessary to derive the effect of the ESC, as well as the lack
of projection, from the interplay of FI and the OCT (3). Therefore, we have to devise
our theory of syntax to ensure that endocentricity for {X, Y} is always coordinated
at Interpret and Spell-Out, while invoking no independent operation beyond MHD.
Fortunately, unrestricted Merge provides a simple means to solve the difficulty:
unary Merge generating a singleton set, Merge(H) = {H}. As already suggested in
note 21 of Chapter 4, either X or Y may form a singleton before the merger of the
two, which yields {{X}, Y} or {X, {Y}}. Such SOs are unambiguously endocentric,
and this endocentricity can be visible to both Interpret and Spell-Out. If we assume
that unrestricted Merge is forced by MC to apply in such a way that it only yields
SOs that are unambiguously endocentric at SEM/PHON in service of the OCT
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 211
(i.e., the ESC), then the formation of in-situ {X, Y} is precluded, unless subsequent
IM applies to either X or Y.6
In this manner, the theory of unrestricted Merge presented here can keep
to the conception of MHD as a third-factor property of FL, without invoking
the branching argument, stipulations of projection or any mechanism of head-
determination in NS.
5.3	 Further issues of endocentricity and Full Interpretation
5.3.1	 Reviewing Chomsky’s (2013) labeling algorithm
As we saw in the preceding discussion, MC reduces the mechanism of head-detec-
tion to MHD, which holds that the head of an SO Σ is the most prominent LI in Σ
detectable via minimal search. The effect of MHD is that for any SO {H, α}, where
H is an LI and α an SO, H is the head of {H, α}. We also saw that MHD cannot
determine headedness for any SOs that depart from the form of {H, α}. A prototypi-
cal case is {XP, YP}, where both XP and YP are phrasal SOs and hence no LI im-
mediately stands as the most prominent. This state of affairs was described as (43).
	(43)	Ban on Exocentricity:
		 Exocentric (non-endocentric) SOs of the form {XP, YP} are ruled out by FI.
In Chapter 3, I argued that syntax can circumvent violations of (43) by systemati-
cally utilizing the operation of Transfer. It was specifically hypothesized that if a
phase-head LI X takes a phrase YP as its sister, Transfer strips off YP from the
workspace of NS, leaving only X for further computation. After Transfer, X can
be merged with some other ZP, forming {X, ZP}, without violating the ban on
exocentricity (43).
	(44)	a.	
X YP
…
Transfer
	 	b.	
														X
		
c.	
X				
X YP
…
Transfer
				d.	
ZP X
						
Merge with ZP
6.	 This dynamic conception of unambiguous endocentricity has certain affinity with the ideas
explored by Moro (1997a, 2000) as well as by Guimarães (2000) and Kayne (2009) in a different
fashion (see also Fukui 2011). However, the current approach differs from theirs in that it makes
no recourse to the LCA or antisymmetry (see Chapter 4).
212	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
This derivation effectively achieves the de facto merger of the X-phase and ZP,
while it does not involve any step at which an exocentric SO {XP, YP} is formed,
satisfying (43).
Simply put, this book is an attempt to explore such Transfer-based reduc-
tion of exocentricity to its limit. This approach differs rather significantly from
Chomsky’s (2013) theory of head-detection, which is called the labeling algorithm
(LA) therein. While Chomsky (2013) also argues for the necessity of reducing the
mechanism of head-detection to minimal search (basically the same as MHD), he
refrains from adopting the “deletion upon interpretation” effect of Transfer as in
(44a-b). Instead, he proposes two ways to circumvent exocentricity, which I will
review in what follows.
The first option, proposed by Chomsky briefly in 2008 (Chomsky 2008: 160,
note 34) and explored in Chomsky (2013) is to stipulate that traces of IM “don’t
count” for the purpose of head-detection/LA (see also Ott 2011a, in press).
	(45)	Trace invisibility:
		If α in {α, β} undergoes IM, the head of β becomes the head of {tα, β}.
(45) maintains that if a phrasal constituent XP of {XP, YP} undergoes IM, the origi-
nal occurrence (“trace,” informally speaking) of XP in {XP, YP} becomes invisible
to head-detection, and so MHD will “look into” YP and single out the head of YP
as the most prominent LI within {XP, YP}, determining endocentricity.
Under this stipulation, then, applications of IM may salvage otherwise exo-
centric XP-YP structures. For example, consider again the merger of the external
argument to the edge of v in (46).
	(46)	a.	
K NP
+
v
V OBJ
	b.	
K NP v
V OBJ
The endocentricity of (46b) as such is undefined, but the hypothesis of trace invis-
ibility (45) provides a way to circumvent this problem. If the subject KP is dislo-
cated by A-movement to the “EPP”-position, its original occurrence in (46b) will
become invisible, thus MHD can look into the structure further down and hit v as
the most prominent LI in (46b).7
7.	 Under Chomsky’s approach, IM of {v, {V, OBJ}} should also be able to remedy the exocentric-
ity of the relevant XP-YP structure, but such movement seems unattested in natural languages,
presumably because some aspect of θ-role assignment by v is contingent on v heading the rel-
evant part of the structure. Chomsky (2013) also explores the possibility of extending his LA in
such a way that movement of OBJ from {v, {V, OBJ}} may also salvage (46b) (cf. Alexiadou &
Anagnostopoulou’s 2001 subject-in-situ generalization). I will put this proposal aside.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 213
	(47)	
K NP T
K NP v
V OBJ
Generally, trace invisibility (45) is proposed to deal with SOs involving “traces”
created by IM. However, since IM of an XP is a copy-formation operation that
generates another XP-YP structure {XPi, [YP . . . XPi . . . ]}, a question remains as to
how the higher copy (the chain-head) of XP is dealt with by Chomsky’s LA. For
this matter, Chomsky (2013) proposes yet another way to assign endocentricity
to certain {XP, YP} structures, which I will refer to as the hypothesis of bifurcated
endocentricity:
	(48)	Bifurcated Endocentricity:
		 a.	 Not only an LI but also a feature can be a head determined by MHD.
		 b.	 Head-search can be bifurcated for SOs of the form {XP, YP}.
		 c.	 If XP and YP share a feature F as the most prominent element, then the
bi­
furcated inspection into XP and YP can single out F as the head of
{XP, YP}.
Bifurcated endocentricity is proposed primarily for cases involving Agree and IM.
Consider again the case of A-movement in (47). It is traditionally assumed that
the relevant “EPP”-movement involves φ-feature agreement between the subject
KP and T. Thus, the matching φ-features are the most prominent elements in
both {K, NP} and {T, . . . }, and so they can stand as the head of {{K, NP}, {T, . . . }}
via (48c).
	(49)	
K[φ]
NP T[φ]
... tKP
...
In this manner, (48) can provide room for certain XP-YP structures generated by
way of Agree plus IM, which cannot be dealt with by trace invisibility (45).
In Chomsky’s analysis, then, the hypotheses of trace invisibility (45) and bi-
furcated endocentricity (48) work in tandem in deciding how XP-YP structures
can be assigned endocentricity and satisfy FI. This is quite a different approach
from the one explored in this book, where the single hypothesis of reduction by
Transfer serves for consistent satisfaction of MHD and FI.
214	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Chomsky’s theory of head-detection/LA raises quite significant empirical
questions:
	 (50)	 Are traces of IM invisible to head-detection?
	 (51)	 Are agreement features visible at SEM?
	 (52)	 Can XP-YP structures of any form satisfy FI?
The following sections will address the questions in this order.
5.3.2	 Eliminating trace invisibility
We saw above that Chomsky’s LA makes crucial recourse to the assumption that
traces are invisible to head-detection. What kind of rationale can be provided for
the idea of trace invisibility? Chomsky suggests that IM creates a discontinuous
element, namely a chain, and that the notion of discontinuity has something to do
with the invisibility of the lower copy, i.e., the tail of the chain. A more meticulous
exposition of the idea can be found in Ott (in press):
[C]onsider what it means for YP to undergo IM. While IM does not manipulate
the original object {XP, YP}, it does yield a configuration in which YP occupies
two positions; more specifically, YP after IM is a set (chain) containing two oc-
currences, one within the original set {XP, YP}, and another one outside of it. This
implies that after movement, discontinuous YP is no longer properly contained
in the original set, since it now only contains one of YP’s occurrences (but not YP
as a whole). This leaves XP (strictly speaking, its label X) as the only remaining
object properly contained in the original set, which is consequently labeled by
XP (X) [i.e., headed by the head of XP; HN].  (Ott in press: § 3.1)
Thus, trace invisibility is related to the necessarily discontinuous nature of chain
objects created by IM, according to Chomsky and Ott.
Notice that the hypothesis of trace invisibility is coupled with the empirical
claim that the higher occurrence of a chain is visible to MHD. Empirically, this
idea provides room for endocentricity determined by internally merged constitu-
ents, as instantiated by wh-free relatives according to some analyses (Donati 2006,
Chomsky 2008, Cecchetto & Donati 2010b, Ott 2011b). Moreover, a similar fact
can be observed in Icelandic quirky agreement phenomena. Here, φ-feature prob-
ing by T (or C) can “skip” the trace of a dative KP as in (53a), while it is blocked
by an in-situ dative KP as in (53b):
	(53)	Icelandic: (Holmberg & Hróarsdóttir 2003: (1), (2))
		a.	 Méri	 virðast	 ti [hestarnir	 vera seinir]
			 me.dat seem.pl		 the-horses.nom be	 slow
			 ‘It seems to me that the horses are slow.’
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 215
		b.	það 	 virðist/*virðast 	einhverjum 	manni	 [hestarnir	 veraseinir]
			 expl 	seems/seem	 some	 man.dat the-horses.nom be	 slow
			 ‘It seems to some man that the horses are slow.’
Building on these facts, Chomsky claims that the visibility of chain heads and
invisibility of traces are empirically motivated as general features of syntactic
computation.
However, the Icelandic data are far more complicated than the exposition just
outlined. For example, it is known that while the intervention effect does not arise
for traces created by A-movement, it does for traces created by wh-movement:
	(54)	Icelandic: (Holmberg & Hróarsdóttir 2003: (3))
		Hvaða mannii	 veist	þú	að	virðist/*virðast ti	 [hestarnir 	 vera	seinir]
		 which man/dat 	know 	you	 that	 seems/seem		 the-horses be	 slow
		 ‘To which man do you know that the horses seem to be slow.’
See Holmberg & Hróarsdóttir (2003, 2004) and Hiraiwa (2005) among others for
the relevant data. While the A/A′ distinction is in itself difficult to capture in the
theory of generalized IM (see Hiraiwa 2005, Chomsky 2008, Obata 2010, Sorida
2011, 2012), these data clearly suggest that merely being a trace is not a sufficient
condition for invisiblity, at least as far as probe-goal relations (Agree) are concerned.
Further evidence for this conclusion comes from head-movement. The stan-
dard analysis maintains that V moves to v in languages like English (and further
to T in languages like French; see Pollock 1989), which may be partially motivated
by the “categorization” requirement, and/or by the affixal nature of v (see the lit-
erature of Distributed Morphology). It is clear that the movement will render the
lower occurrence of V in {V, OBJ} part of a discontinuous chain object, and thus
it is predicted to be invisible to MHD under Chomsky’s LA. However, we have
strong reasons to suppose that {V, OBJ} is headed by V, irrespective of whether V
moves or not: the compositional interpretation assigned to {V, OBJ} is primarily
configured by the semantic features of V (eventhood, aspect, etc.), and the object
is interpreted relative to the θ-role assigned by V (typically Theme). Therefore, we
have to construct a theory of MHD where V’s trace can still be visible to MHD and
compositional interpretation of {V, OBJ}. The simplest approach is to eliminate the
stipulation of trace invisibility (45).
This counterargument to Chomsky’s LA is based on the assumption that
head-movement is narrow-syntactic. Thus, it may be circumvented by adopting
Chomsky’s (2001) hypothesis that head-movement is phonological (applying at
PF) and has no effect at SEM (see also Boeckx & Stjepanović 2001). But we have
already reviewed various reasons to believe that this option is theoretically ill-
advised, because if we take that path, we will correspondingly lose the account of
216	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
a number of syntactic properties of head-movement, such as its structure depen-
dence (linear-independence), minimal search requirement and phase-level appli-
cation (see Berwick et al. 2011 and Chomsky 2012 for contemporary discussion).
See the discussion in § 2.8 for an NTC-compatible analysis of head-movement in
bare phrase structure.
Notice that I proposed (55) (=(104) of Chapter 3) in our discussion of *{t, t}
in § 3.6.2, which may at first sight look similar to Chomsky’s trace invisibility (45).
	 (55)	 If H in {H, α} is not the highest occurrence of H created by IM, Interpret
chooses not to assign interpretation to H’s semantic features in {H, α}.
The reasoning ran as follows: IM of an LI H feeds the generalized logical operator-
variable formation at SEM (see (53) of Chapter 3 for the Interpret IM rule). Since
the scope of the relevant logical operator Op is determined by the highest occur-
rence of H, the relevant semantic features of H are interpreted at that position,
rendering the semantic features of H’s other copies (traces) inactive for Interpret.
Then, an IM-trace of H, tH, can never define the head of {tH, α} for compositional
interpretation, which derives (55). (55) was shown to be relevant to my account
of *{t, t} (see § 3.6.2 for details).
In this line of reasoning, I was not claiming that traces are invisible in them-
selves to NS or MHD-based computation at Interpret, but only that their semantic
features are rendered inactive and not chosen for interpretation at SEM. I argued
that traces nevertheless contribute to CI-interpretation and satisfy FI, by virtue
of being interpreted as a logical variable x, which can be characterized without
recourse to semantic features. Thus, the visibility of formal and semantic features
of traces for various operations (Agree, θ-marking, etc.) poses no problem for this
approach.
All in all, it is plainly uncontroversial that traces enter into various aspects of
CI-interpretation, such as predicate-argument structure, operator-variable forma-
tion, and reconstruction effects with respect to binding and scope. Therefore, traces
must be visible, to various degrees, for the sake of compositional interpretation
at SEM. Then, so long as we pursue the null hypothesis that MHD can be entirely
reduced to minimal inspection of lexical features of LIs at Interpret/Spell-Out
(the OCT (3)), it is simply contrary to much evidence to speculate that traces are
selectively invisible to MHD. Therefore, we are forced to withdraw the stipulation
of trace invisibility (45), both due to considerable empirical counterevidence and
in light of the SMT.
Before closing the discussion of trace invisibility, I would like to comment
on Ott’s (in press) evaluation of my earlier work (Narita 2011, 2012b) exploring
the effect of the ESC (then termed the H-α schema; see § 5.2.2). In his attempt to
defend the Chomskyan hypothesis of trace invisibility (45), Ott (in press) notes:
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 217
[The] view of free and unrestricted application of Merge contradicts recent pro-
posals by Kayne (2011), Zwart (2011), and Narita ([2011]), among others. …
According to these authors, the generation of {XP, YP} structures is barred alto-
gether; however, this result is achieved by stipulation. … Unless some principled
reason is provided for intrinsic constraints on Merge, and hence for the corre-
sponding enrichment of UG, such proposals should be met with skepticism.
As Ott correctly points out, my proposal contradicts Chomsky’s and therefore Ott’s
approach to exocentric XP-YP structures, in that only mine effectively precludes
Merge from applying to two phrases. However, it is not the case that I put forward
the ESC as an “intrinsic constraint on Merge.” Rather, Narita (2011) was devoted
to defending the hypothesis that the effect of the ESC could be straightforwardly
derived from independent principles of UG, relating to the total absence of repre-
sentational labels/projection, the conditions of Inclusiveness and No-Tampering,
and the reduction of head-detection to minimal search for LIs (MHD) (see § 5.2.2).
In order to derive the effect of the ESC from the ban on exocentricity (43), it simply
suffices not to incorporate any stipulations on trace invisibility (45) and bifurcated
endocentricity (48), keeping to a simpler theory of UG. Thus, my approach is per-
fectly compatible with the theory of unconstrained Merge: Merge can in principle
combine any two SOs, but only certain choices will receive appropriate endocentric
interpretation at SEM.
Moreover, it is not clear whether the approach explored here is more stipula-
tive than Chomsky’s approach based on trace invisibility. Chomsky’s approach
attempts to meet the ban on exocentricity with the stipulation of trace invisibility
(45), while my work approaches the same problem without that very stipulation,
straightforwardly yielding the effect of the ESC. My deduction of the ESC is based
primarily on various considerations concerning MC (MHD, the OCT, the cyclic
reduction of phase-interiors keeping to MW, etc.), hence it stays unaffected by Ott’s
criticism, keeping rather closely to the SMT.
That said, I agree with Ott’s assessment of the other of the two deductions of the
H-α schema entertained by Narita (2011, 2012b). His criticisms were aimed at the
“Merge-as-attraction-to-the-head” hypothesis (11) and its EF-based reformulation
(13) entertained by Chomsky (2008), which should be eliminated in favor of the
theory of unconstrained Merge (see § 5.2.2).
5.3.3	 On the visibility of Agreement features at Interpret
We now turn to Chomsky’s hypothesis of bifurcated endocentricity (48). According
to this approach, the XP-YP structure in (49), repeated here, is effectively headed
by the φ-features shared by K and T via bifurcated head-inspection.
218	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	(49)	
K[φ]
NP T[φ]
... tKP
...
The structure is created by IM of KP upon φ-feature agreement with T. Thanks to
the Agree-relation holding between K and T, T’s unvalued φ-features get valued
by their interpretable counterparts on K. Therefore, as Chomsky’s theory of LA
goes, the matching φ-features of K and T are the most prominent elements in both
{K, NP} and {T, . . . }, and so they can stand as the head of {{K, NP}, {T, . . . }} via
bifurcated endocentricity.
Note that the set of φ-features on T are considered to be a typical instance of
“uninterpretable” features: tense cannot be meaningfully specified with respect
to person, number or gender, and thus the relevant [vφ] receive no legitimate
interpretation on T.
	(56)	Valued φ-features on T receive no CI-interpretation.
Building on this observation, Chomsky proposed in his earlier theory (1995b,
2000a, 2001, 2004, 2007a, 2008) that the presence of valued φ-features on T at SEM,
or of valued [uF] more generally, is a lethal violation of FI, and that they should
get deleted before they reach SEM.8
	 (57)	 Valued [uF]’s are uninterpretable, and they should get deleted immediately
upon valuation by Agree (Chomsky 2007a, 2008).
However, Chomsky’s approach to bifurcated endocentricity clearly hinges on the
assumption that agreement features are visible to head-detection/LA, which is
assumed to be a prerequisite for CI-interpretation.
	 (58)	 Agreement features ([uF]’s that get valued by Agree) are visible to
head-detection/LA.
For the concrete case in (49), it is critical for LA to be able to “see” the valued
φ-features on T, in conjunction with those on K. This poses a serious problem
8.	 Recall that my account of phase-by-phase derivation makes recourse to a hypothesis similar
to (57) ((56) of Chapter 2 reproduced here):
	 (i)	
Unvalued features receive no interpretation at SEM and PHON, and the failure to value
them by means of Agree violates FI.
However, (i) only describes the necessity of Agree-based valuation, but it does not specify
whether Agree necessarily accompanies deletion upon valuation, as stipulated in Chomsky’s (57).
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 219
on rule ordering: on the one hand, if head-detection/LA applies before Agree,
then φ-features on T are just unvalued and hence unable to provide bifurcated
endocentricity; on the other hand, if head-detection/LA applies after Agree, the
φ-features are already deleted upon valuation according to (57), and hence they
should become invisible to head-detection/LA.9 Clearly, then, the two conceptions
of agreement features in (57) and (58) directly speak against each other. Therefore,
if one wishes to provide room for bifurcated endocentricity, the assumption in (57)
should be eliminated from the theory of syntax. It would therefore be necessary to
reconsider the theoretical basis for the assumption in (57).
One possible way to salvage bifurcated endocentricity is to assume that
Interpret is armed with the ability to choose which feature-values to assign CI-
interpretation. The idea can be stated as follows:
	 (59)	 Interpret can choose which occurrence(s) of feature-values (copied by Agree)
to assign CI-interpretation at SEM.
Specifically, instead of adopting (57), we may simply let Interpret choose not to in-
terpret copied φ-values on T, while assigning CI-interpretation to the values at the
occurrence on K, for example. Note that (59) can be understood as a more general
fact about copy-formation in NS. Thus, copies created by IM are also subject to
selective interpretation at SEM, as independently evidenced by operator-variable
formation, quantifier scope, and reconstruction effects. Thus, (59) can be further
generalized to (60):
	 (60)	 Interpret can choose which occurrence(s) of copies (created by IM and Agree)
to assign CI-interpretation at SEM.
This is a natural principle, and replacing (57) with (60) can readily permit valued
φ-features on T for the purpose of bifurcated endocentricity.10
However, even if the potential incompatibility with (57) turns out to be resolv-
able (e.g., by replacing it with (59)/(60)), (58) still poses a serious problem for the
minimalist approach to endocentricity/MHD pursued here. Recall that the barest
conception of head-detection reduces to efficient inspection of semantic/phono-
logical features applying at Interpret/Spell-Out, the OCT in (3). An important
9.	 Another possibility may be that MHD could apply “simultaneously” with Agree/Value at the
phase-level. But even if it were the case, the prima facie incompatibility of (57) and (58) persists,
so long as we keep to the OCT (3) that head-detection/LA reduces to minimal inspection of
semantic/phonological features at Interpret/Spell-Out.
10.	 Our theory of MHD is also partially based on (59)/(60). For example, it is proposed that
valued [uQ] on K may be interpreted at a higher copy of IM, characterizing scope of the relevant
logical operator (see § 3.4.2.5).
220	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
aspect of the OCT lies in the requirement that the inspection by MHD at Interpret
should be strictly restricted to semantic features relevant to compositional inter-
pretation by CI. Do φ-features on T qualify as that kind of “semantic feature,” con-
tributing to CI-interpretation in any meaningful way, despite the obvious absence
of interpretation (56)? Or, does it really matter to “hit” the copied “semantically
anomalous” φ-features on T in the first place, particularly given that Interpret
needs to inspect the entire sets of semantic features in KP and TP anyway, if only
for strict compositionality? The hypothesis in (58) thus bears a burden of justifica-
tion, and it presumably speaks against the minimal conception of head-detection,
namely MHD applying only at Interpret (after NS) for the sake of FI.11
5.3.4	 On symmetric structures and universal endocentricity
We saw that Chomsky’s theory of LA faces a couple of serious problems concerning
the visibility of traces and agreement features at SEM. That said, it should neverthe-
less be acknowledged that there are certain insights about linguistic structure that
Chomsky’s LA is meant to capture, to which we now turn.
First, behind the hypothesis of trace invisibility is the following idea, essentially
originating from Moro’s (2000) “dynamic antisymmetry:”
	 (61)	 SOs of the form {XP, YP} are locally unstable, triggering “symmetry-breaking”
IM of either XP or YP.
Recall that moving either XP or YP from {XP, YP} lets the other phrase determine
the head, assuming trace invisibility. Chomsky maintains that (61) recaptures the
essence of Moro’s (2000) analysis without recourse to Kayne’s LCA.12 Thus, assum-
ing that small clauses are symmetric {DP, DP} structures, obligatory movement of
either one of the DPs as shown in (62) can be regarded as a representative example
of (61).
	(62)	Italian: (Moro 2007)
		 a.	 [molte 	foto	 del	 muro]i 	sono [ti 	[la	 causa della	 rivolta]]
			 many 	 pictures 	of-the 	wall	 are		 the cause of-the riot
			 ‘many pictures on the wall are the cause of the riot.’
11.	 Recall further that there is little evidence that computation in NS is contingent on endo-
centricity/ headedness (§ 5.2). The lack of any “head-dependent” operation constitutes a further
piece of evidence for the view that head-detection/LA applies only after NS (in particular valu-
ation by Agree).
12.	 See Chapter 4 for argument that the LCA has no place in projection-free syntax.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 221
		 b.	 la causa della rivolta i
			 sono [[molte foto del muro] ti]
		 c.	 *sono [[molte foto del muro] [la causa della rivolta]]
See also Ott (2012, in press) for an extension of this LA-based analysis to German
split topicalization.
Moreover, recall the discussion of EPP-movement in § 5.3.1. EM of the subject
KP and the verbal phrase {v, {V, OBJ}} results in an unstable XP-YP structure (30),
but A-movement of the subject KP will stabilize it by trace invisibility, according to
Chomsky’s LA. Along this line of reasoning, Chomsky hints at the possibility that
the obligatoriness of so-called EPP-movement can be explained as a consequence
of (61).
Another important consequence of (61) is the instability of intermediate oc-
currences of successive cyclic movement. For example, if a wh-object undergoes
successive cyclic movement to the edge of matrix CP, as in Which picturei did
you ti think ti (that) John ti saw ti yesterday?, any intermediate occurrence of the
wh-phrase should necessarily be part of an XP-YP structure, and hence qualify as
locally unstable, according to Chomsky’s LA. Thus, the fact that the wh-phrase can
never stay in intermediate positions follows directly from (61), a highly desirable
result of Chomsky’s LA.
Under Chomsky’s analysis, the ultimate landing site of IM is characterized by
the notion of bifurcated endocentricity (48). Thus, successive cyclic wh-movement
should end at the edge of C, which agrees with the wh-phrase with respect to
Q-features (63) (see § 3.4.2.3), and A-movement (which can also be successive
cyclic) should end at the edge of T, which agrees with the moving KP with respect
to φ-features ((49) repeated here as (63b)).
	(63)	a.	
Q[Q]
... Wh ... C[Q]
... tQP
...
		b.	
K[φ]
DP T[φ]
... tKP
...
Importantly, the theory of bifurcated endocentricity is articulating the following
intuition (cf. Fukui 2011 and Narita & Fukui 2012).
222	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
	 (64)	 SOs of the form {XP, YP} that are “featurally symmetric” are stable.
Indeed, (63a) and (63b) are salvaged by bifurcated endocentricity (48) via sym-
metrically distributed matching features: [Q] for (63a), [φ] for (63b).13
In a nutshell, Chomsky’s LA is meant to capture (i) the instability of exocentric
XP-YP structures by trace invisibility (45) on the one hand, and (ii) the ultimate
landing sites of IM such as (63a) and (63b) by bifurcated endocentricity (48) on
the other. Moreover, if appropriately refined, Chomsky’s LA may also be adapted
to provide (iii) the correct typology of stable and unstable XP-YP structures. The
following is the list of empirical domains that would be relevant to the inquiry.
	 (65)	 In what environment does {XP, YP} count as locally (un)stable?
		 a.	 small clauses (unstable?)
		 b.	 {[EA], {v, …}} (unstable?)
		 c.	 intermediate positions of successive-cyclic movement (unstable)
		 d.	 subject-predicate {KP, {T, …}} (stable)
		 e.	 {WhP, {C, …}} (stable)
		 f.	 topicalization (stable)
		 g.	 object shift (stable?)
		 h.	 merger of indirect object (stable?)
		 i.	 merger of possessor (stable)
		 j.	 adjunction (stable)
		 k.	 coordination (stable)
		l.	 {X0, Y0} (?)
13.	 Chomsky’s theory puts forward two contrastive notions of symmetry: it holds that certain
structures require IM due to the local instability of the XP-YP symmetry, while IMed SOs are
incorporated into other {XP, YP} structures via the symmetry of matching features. According
to this hypothesis, then, symmetry is characterized on the one hand as something syntax finds
intolerable (as in (61)), and on the other as something syntax is looking for (as in (64)).
	 Narita & Fukui (2012) point out that we can eliminate (61) while incorporating the major
effect of (61) into (64). Note that the set of XP-YP structures inducing IM seems to correspond
to the set of featurally asymmetric {XP, YP} structures: the external argument and the verbal
phrase share no matching features, and thus presumably count as featurally asymmetric; and XP
and YP in small clauses are often analyzed as involving no direct feature-matching/Agree (see
Moro’s (2000) counterargument to the AGRP analysis of small clauses). Thus, we may suggest
that local instability arises not because of the symmetry at the level of LI/phrase distinction, but
rather because of the asymmetry at the level of features.
	 The idea that syntax looks for structural symmetry seems to have a certain conceptual appeal,
although the ESC advocated in this book provides no room for it. Importantly, the character-
ization in (64) seems to hinge little on the notion of semantic headedness, thus it may be that
the principle of symmetry-orientation in (64) is in its nature syntactic, arising for the sake of
simplicity and economy. See Fukui (2011) for exploration.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 223
Although the 2013 version of Chomsky’s LA falls far short of explaining the full
set of potential XP-YP structures in (65), it is nevertheless significant and leaves
room for future progress. Admittedly, (i)–(iii) are things that the theory of the ESC
fails to capture, simply because the ESC by assumption precludes any formation
of XP-YP structures to begin with. Every SO takes the form {H, α} according to
this approach, and can always be assigned endocentricity via MHD without any
problem. Then, everything should be stable in terms of endocentricity, so this ac-
count will not explain the facts about successive cyclic movement, for example.
Therefore, advocates of the ESC (not only me but also Uriagereka 1999 and Kayne
2011 reviewed in Chapter 4) will have to provide alternative characterizations of
such SOs.14 I have to leave this important task for future research.
5.3.5	 Remarks on universal endocentricity
Finally, I would like to note that Chomsky’s LA leaves room for exocentric struc-
tures, in contrast to my ESC-based approach, as well as virtually all the past theo-
ries of projection-based syntax.
The earlier PSG-based conception of phrase-markers holds that each phrase
is associated with a label (nonterminal symbol), and X-bar theory further main-
tains that all labels are projections of head LIs. Then, under the assumption that
projection correlates with endocentricity, the X-bar-theoretic approach in effect
subscribes to the universal endocentricity hypothesis:
	(66)	Universal Endocentricity:
		 Every phrase is headed by an LI.
(66) has become the standard assumption since the advent of X-bar theory, followed
by the majority of subsequent theories in the generative framework. However, once
PSG is replaced with Merge, the concept of universally labeled phrase structure is
correspondingly eradicated from the theory of syntax. (66) thus becomes open to
scrutiny. Is (66) true even in the framework of bare phrase structure, or should it
be discarded as an unwarranted residue of PSG?
Note that the theory advocated in this book subscribes to (66), too, in that it
still rests on the assumption that head-assignment via MHD is an absolute and
inviolable requirement at SEM/PHON. However, Noam Chomsky (p.c.) raised a
question concerning my projection-free but universally endocentric conception
14.	 Note that the ESC still permits symmetric structures of the form {X0, Y0} (65l), where both
of the constituents are LIs. Thus, the ESC-based approach may pursue the hypothesis that en-
docentrically unstable structures (if any) are actually of the form {X0 , Y0}.
224	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
of phrase-markers. Thus, regarding the long-standing universal endocentricity
claim (66), he commented:
That’s true of X-bar theory and its descendants, but not earlier approaches. Thus
the central PSG rule was S → NP VP, exocentric. That may well be correct, given
the impossibility of SPEC in a pure Merge system allowing free merge of SOs.
Indeed, putting forward the idea of universal endocentricity (66) has been a highly
theory-internal decision, essentially originating in X-bar theory, but not required
for earlier approaches or for the contemporary framework of bare phrase struc-
ture. Especially for SOs of the form {XP, YP} that were traditionally described as
involving specifiers, we no longer have any strong reason to stick to endocentric-
ity stipulations (recall § 5.2.3). Therefore, regardless of whether they are created
by EM or IM, any {XP, YP} structures are now open to exocentric characteriza-
tions.15 In this relation, Chomsky’s notion of bifurcated endocentricity (48) char-
acterizes the subject-predicate structure {KP, TP} as stably interpretable at SEM,
owing to the φ-feature head shared by KP and TP. This feature-based conception
of endocentricity certainly departs from the traditional conception of labeling/
projection, in that the latter maintains that every phrase is headed by an LI (not
features), i.e., universal endocentricity (66). The theory of the ESC is crucially
based on this assumption, too. As noted in § 5.3.3, the hypothesis of bifurcated
endocentricity leaves certain questions unanswered, but it neverthelsss points to
an interesting possibility for exocentric compositional interpretation of {XP, YP}.
Little is known about the formal properties of such semantic computation, but the
conceptual barrier that the stipulation of labeling/projection has been imposing
on us, namely universal endocentricity (66), is now removed in the theory of bare
phrase structure. Inquiry into the nature of compositional interpretation of exo-
centric structures appears to be a potentially quite fruitful research topic, which I
have to leave for future research (see Chomsky 2013 and Narita & Fukui 2012 for
preliminary approaches).
15.	 It is worth noting that Chomsky first put forward the X-bar schemata in Chomsky (1970) in
such a way that they could be interpreted not as strict formats for PSRs but as a kind of evalu-
ation measure that merely sets preference for (unmarked) X-bar-theoretic projections, leaving
the possibility of (marked) exocentric structures. I thank Naoki Fukui for bringing this point to
my attention.
	 Chapter 5.  Full Interpretation all the way through	 225
5.4	 Concluding remarks
In this chapter, we reviewed how MHD figures in both of the mappings to SEM and
PHON (Interpret and Spell-Out), while it has no obvious effect on syntactic com-
putations (Merge, Transfer, Agree, etc.), applying before Interpret/Spell-Out. It was
claimed that this is because MHD is ultimately deducible from the “domain-gen-
eral” third-factor principle of MC. It is further argued that the traditional X-bar-
theoretic stipulations, such as the notion of Specifier, are eliminated in MC-based
syntax. The interplay of MHD and the ESC serves for the constant satisfaction of
endocentric compositional interpretation at SEM, maximally satisfying FI. We also
briefly reviewed Chomsky’s theory of LA, and pointed out that it leaves a couple
of important problems unanswered, such as the visibility of traces and agreement
features. However, it was also acknowledged that Chomsky’s LA provides a limited
but partially successful characterization of stable and unstable XP-YP structures,
an important topic for future research.
chapter 6
Conclusion
This book was an attempt to outline a unified theory of syntax, i.e., a system of
mental computation that systematically organizes human thoughts. The present
inquiry specifically built on the working hypothesis that human syntax is a system
of Minimal Computation (MC), and attempted to derive as many attested proper-
ties of human language as possible from this “third-factor” principle. Some of the
results derived from MC are recapitulated below:
	 (1)	 MC deduces the conditions in (a–e):
		a.	 Minimal Search (MS):
			 Syntax executes only minimal search required for the computation of SEM
and PHON.
		b.	Minimal Workspace (MW):
			 Syntax operates only within a minimal active workspace required for the
computation of SEM and PHON.
		c.	 Full Interpretation (FI):
			 Every element of SEM and PHON contributes to interpretation.
		d.	Inclusiveness Condition (IC):
			 No elements absent from the Lexicon are introduced in the course of
syntactic derivation.
		e.	 No-Tampering Condition (NTC):
			 No elements introduced by syntax are deleted or modified in the course
of syntactic derivation.
	 (2)	 Syntax governed by MC reduces, almost in its entirety, to a system of unbounded
(set-)Merge: there is no room for the Merge-over-Move constraint, the Merge-is-
to-the-head condition, or order-assignment in the form of p-merge; moreover,
the IC (1d) and the NTC (1e) preclude insertion, deletion and tampering
transformations of any sort (see Chapter 2). Unbounded Merge minimally
yields discrete infinity of hierarchical representations with the copy theory of
movement, as well as the expressive potential for the duality of semantics.
	 (3)	 Syntax is free from labeling by projection but its structure is still universally
endocentric: X-bar-theoretic projection and feature-percolation are excluded
by the IC (1d) and the NTC (1e), but the principle of strict compositionality
requires that each syntactic object (SO) immediately present its head LI via
228	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
minimal search (Minimal Head Detection, MHD), whose semantic/phono­
logical features determine its compositional interpretation at SEM/PHON (see
Chapter 3).
	 (4)	 Because of the “third-factor” (domain-general) nature of MC, the effects of
endocentricity arise prominently both at the mappings to SEM and PHON:
MHD operates at Interpret/Spell-Out because it is the simplest mode of
compositional interpretation (the Optimal Compositionality Thesis, OCT);
on the other hand, the generative (i.e., non-interpretive) system of narrow
syntax (NS) is not constrained in any way by endocentricity.
	 (5)	 Exocentric (non-endocentric) SOs of any form are excluded by the interplay
of MHD and the OCT, deriving the Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC)
(see Chapter 3). The ESC derives various constraints on movement operations:
not only the typology of XP- vs. X0-movement but also Huang’s (1982) CED
and other island constraints are derived from the full satisfaction of MHD in
favor of FI (1c) (see Chapter 3).
	 (6)	 MC leaves no room for the “specifier” stipulation, edge-features, trace
invisibility, or any other ad hoc assumptions that have been made to permit
exocentric strctures (see Chapter 5).
	 (7)	 Syntax governed by MC obeys cyclic derivation by phase and the Phase
Impenetrability Condition (PIC): the derivational simultaneity of Internal
Merge (IM), head-movement, Agree and Transfer is derived from the interplay
of MW (1b), FI (1c), the IC (1d) and the NTC (1e), excluding any extraneous
technologies like referential indices, Numeration or copy-formation operations
apart from Merge (see Chapters 2, 3).
	 (8)	 Thanks to MC, syntactic computation is always structure-dependent, i.e.,
there are no structure-independent (linear-dependent, label-dependent, head-
dependent, etc.) rules: NS generates (label-free) hierarchical structures via
recursive Merge, and endocentricity and linear ordering arise only post-NS
at Interpret/Spell-Out (see Chapters 2, 5).
	 (9)	 No universal word order template (antisymmetry) can be formulated: linear
order is not part of NS, and projection-free syntax is too “bare” to reach one
and the same solution for every problem of externalization. Unbounded Merge
generates unordered sets, and the MHD-based mechanism of linearization just
maps each {H, α} to either H ≫ α or α ≫ H, depending on the phonological
features of the head LI H (to wit, every LI is either a prefix or a suffix).
Therefore, the LCA and strong antisymmetry have no place in MC-based
syntax (see Chapter 4).
	 Chapter 6.  Conclusion	 229
	 (10)	 The uniformly rapid and successful acquisition of lexical items (LIs) is
supported in significant part by the ESC: the ESC provides a strong analytical
tool for the detection of LIs in primary linguistic data, allowing both the
“bottom-up” synthesis of such LIs into clausal syntax and the “top-down”
analysis of phonological word structures, leading to constant revisions of the
Lexicon of provisionally analyzed LIs (see § 3.7).
In order to look up the complete list of empirical achievements, readers are also
referred to the Appendix of this book, which summarizes the premises and the
propositions put forward in this book.
I explored various aspects of MC-based syntax and its manifestations at SEM/
PHON, with the hope that this study may ultimately serve as a window into the
secret nature of human thoughts (CI). This approach has several advantages. First,
the study of MC-based syntax is consistent with the familiar Galilean maxim of
natural science, namely the conviction that nature is simple. Insofar as syntax is a
system of computation (formal manipulation), it should no doubt relate to some
general measures of computational efficiency. The question is not whether this is
the case, but to what extent, and putting forward MC was a way to evaluate this
very question. So long as the consequences in (2)–(10) adequately describe facts
about human language, the empirical force of MC, understood as the sum of (1a-
e), is correspondingly corroborated. Moreover, we further saw that MC serves to
simplify UG and thereby minimize the burden of unexplained stipulations regard-
ing what components of language must be considered innate (the “first” factor in
the sense of Chomsky 2005, 2007a, 2008). In this manner, the study of MC can
vindicate the minimalist science of syntax, both methodologically and empirically.
Secondly and more importantly, syntax arguably provides one of the most
solid bases for the scientific study of the human mind. Cognitive science has long
sufferred from the scarcity of “direct” evidence, but, at the very least, the existence
of syntax (i.e., the formal system of symbol assembly) is clearly evidenced by the
human-unique capacity of acquiring and utilizing discrete infinity and its trans-
formational manipulation. This biological endowment of human beings manifests
itself in various corners of human cognition, such as language, mathematics and
music, to name just a few. Specifically in the case of language, we can also study
its effect through externalization at PHON, where a variety of experiments can be
devised on production, perception, processing, prosody, acceptability judgments,
etc. Syntax is therefore a natural object that we can study as such, and arguably the
simplest theory of it is unbounded Merge governed by MC.
Last but not least, we pursue the science of syntax because we want to avoid
the intractable problem of the creative use of language. The relevant observation,
which goes back to Descartes, is that ordinary language use by human individuals
230	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
is unbounded and not directly caused by the environment, but it is nevertheless ap-
propriate and coherent in new situations (Chomsky 1966/2002/2009a).1 Linguistic
creativity is just a particular instance of physically unbounded human mental ac-
tivities, and Descartes conjectured that these facts are out of the reach of physical
science. He was thus led to stipulate the existence of the “second substance” of res
cogitans (the mental), counterposed to res extensa (the physical), only the latter of
which he hoped to understand mechanically. Descartes’s guess about the mental
world was very reasonable, and has lost no force until today.2 Thus, essentially
concurring with Descartes, Chomsky (1987, 1995a, 2000b, 2009b) often repeats the
claim that the use of language may forever remain a mystery for human science.
Chomsky specifically suggests that this daunting condition may arise due to the
limitation of our cognitive resources (what McGinn 1991, 1993 calls the “cognitive
closure”). For example, Chomsky (1987: 35–36) states:
The [problem of production] is what I called “Descartes’s problem,” the problem of
accounting for “the creative aspect of language use,” one aspect of the more general
problem of accounting for choice of action that is evoked by situations but not
determined by them, as in ordinary, normal human behavior, linguistic behavior
included. About these problems, there is very little to say. It seems, in fact, that the
problems elude our conceptual grasp. We understand and can deal with problems
that can be formulated in terms of such notions as determinacy, randomness,
probability distributions and input-output systems, but as the Cartesians rightly
stressed, these concepts are not adequate or appropriate here. But we have no other
concepts, and therefore are at a loss as to how to proceed in this area. We do not
know how to deal with action that is unbounded in scope, indeterminate but not
random, influenced but not caused by internal states, evoked but not determined
(even probabilistically) by situations, coherent and appropriate, evoking thoughts
in others similar to our own, and so on. As the Cartesians emphasized, humans
are only “incited and inclined” while mechanisms are “compelled” (randomness
apart) to act in certain ways in particular circumstances and under particular
internal arrangement of parts. These problems remain mysteries. They escape our
conceptual grasp, and may lie beyond our cognitive capacities and intellectual
competence. At any rate, there is nothing very serious to say about the production
problem, except in very limited areas (e.g., the study of speech errors).
1.	 Chomsky (1966/2002/2009a) called the contemporary generative enterprise “Cartesian lin-
guistics,” essentially to emphasize Descartes’s observation of linguistic creativity.
2.	 In contrast, his hope to provide a complete mechanical explanation of the physical world
was completely demolished by Newton and his followers. See Chomsky (1995a, 2000b, 2009b)
for relevant discussion.
	 Chapter 6.  Conclusion	 231
Indeed, we humans are endowed with several concepts that we can utilize for
science, such as determinacy, randomness, probability, input-output schemata,
etc., but, regrettably, they are not very suitable for the study of language use. Must
it be the case, then, that the system of CI will forever remain inaccessible to our
understanding? We hope not. Fortunately, although an all-embracing explanation
of CI performance may remain out of our cognitive reach, the 60 years of genera-
tive research have made some progress, at least, in the study of the mechanism
underlying language use. The relevant mechanism, i.e., the grammar of human
language, is a complex system of rules and representations (some phonological
or semantic), which is syntax in a broad sense. Therefore, insofar as we limit the
scope of our inquiry to the internal architecture of syntax, we can at least go along
with the Cartesian caution, with the hope that we may someday be able to find
interesting priciples and generalizations that can illuminate the hidden nature of
the human mind.
Syntax is, then, not something we passively stipulate beside some indepen-
dent “thought contents,” for which a variety of philosophico-semantic theories
have been devised (reference, denotations, truth-conditions, Fregean senses, the
Fodorian “language of thought” (Fodor 1975, 2008), etc.),3 but rather the inte-
gral core of MC through which we humans crystallize an infinitude of cognitive
structures, which may be otherwise unintelligible to our conscious minds, let alone
to our scientific inquiry.
Building on these considerations, we take syntax as a boat to sail into the
dark haze of the human mind. The question is, simply, how far we can go with it.
I sincerely hope that the present study has hinted at some fruitful lines of research
to this end.
3.	 These theories typically involve various systems of mental operations, like truth-calcula-
tion, function-application, type-shifting and other model-theoretic devices. So long as they are
claimed to be psychological theories of mind-internal computation, they fall under the category
of syntax in a broad sense (we may call them “post-LF syntax”). Then, we should raise the ques-
tion regarding to what extent they satisfy MC. Curiously, they typically involve massive viola-
tions of the IC and the NTC (e.g., mapping from hierarchically organized sentence structures
to abstract sets of functions from possible worlds to truth-values). If these are correct theories
of psychological semantics, a question arises as to why they are so different in computational
capacities from syntax narrowly construed (NS), where unbounded Merge strictly adheres to
conditions imposed by MC.
appendix
List of propositions
(Reference to the sections and numbered examples are indicated in parentheses to the right.
(X.Y) denotes example number (Y) in chapter X.)
Premises and definitions
General linguistic theory
[1]	 Three factors in the language design:(2.1)
	 i.	 genetic endowment
	 ii.	 external stimulus/environment
	 iii.	 biological, physical and mathematical (“computational” in particular, in the case of
digital computational systems like language) principles that are not specific to FL
[2]	 descriptive adequacy: (§ 2.1)
	 A theory of FL meets the condition of descriptive adequacy if it provides an encompassing
characterization of observable I-languages (steady states of FL).
[3]	 explanatory adequacy:	 (§ 2.1)
	 A theory of FL meets the condition of explanatory adequacy if it provides an encompass-
ing characterization of how factor (i) maps given sets of linguistic data (factor (ii)) to
corresponding I-languages (steady states of FL) under the effect of factor (iii).
[4]	 biological adequacy: (§ 2.1)
	 A theory of FL meets the condition of biological adequacy if it provides an encompass-
ing characterization of how biophysical constraints of the universe (factor (iii)) map the
genetics of homo sapiens (factor (i)) to the attested design of FL.
Minimal Computation
[5]	 Minimal Computation (MC):(1.1/2.6)
	 Syntax only executes computation minimally required to generate legitimate pairings of
SEM- and PHON-representations.
[6]	 Minimal Search (MS):	 (1.3/2.44)
	 Syntax executes only minimal search required for the computation of SEM and PHON.
[7]	 Minimal Workspace (MW):(1.4/2.31)
	 Syntax operates only within a minimal active workspace required for the computation of
SEM and PHON.
[8]	 Full Interpretation (FI):(1.5/2.45/3.23)
	 Every element of SEM and PHON contributes to interpretation.
[9]	 Inclusiveness Condition (IC):(1.6/2.21/3.3)
	 No elements absent from the Lexicon are introduced in the course of syntactic derivation.
234	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
[10]	 No-Tampering Condition (NTC): (1.7/2.22/3.4; note 12 of Chapter 2)
	 No elements introduced by syntax are deleted or modified in the course of syntactic
derivation.
[11]	 Strong Minimalist Thesis (SMT):(2.2)
	 FL is an optimal solution to the conditions imposed by the performance systems it inter-
faces with.
Universal Grammar (UG)
Architecture
[12]	 Merge(Σ1 . . . , Σn) = {Σ1 . . . , Σn}.(1.2/2.3)
[13]	 Lexical items (LIs) are “atoms” of syntactic computation that can serve as input to, but are
not themselves constructed by, Merge.  (§ 2.2.2, § 3.7)
[14]	The Lexicon is the entire set of LIs stored in the human mind/brain. (§ 2.2.2, § 3.7)
[15]	 Minimal Head Detection (MHD):(3.13/4.1/5.2)
	 For each SO Σ, define the most prominent LI within Σ as the head of Σ.
[16]	 Interpret: the operation that maps SOs to SEM. (2.4)
[17]	 Spell-Out: the operation that maps SOs to PHON.	 (2.5)
[18]	 Transfer: (2.76/5.8; 3.26)
	 Applied to a set of root SOs {Σ1, …, Σn}, Transfer
	 a.	 identifies copies within Σ1, …, Σn via [19],
	 b.	 subjects the largest possible convergent term Σ′i of each Σi to Interpret and Spell-Out,
and
	 c.	 eliminates the sum of Σ′i (called the interior of a phase) from the workspace of NS.
[19]	 Copy-identification:(2.75/5.9)
	 All and only repetitions (feature-values or SOs) introduced simultaneously with Transfer
are copies of elements within the phase.
[20]	 Agree:(2.42/5.7)
	a.	
Search:
		 An LI P with an unvalued feature F [uF] probes into its sister for the closest matching
valued feature [vF] of a goal LI G.
	b.	
Value:
		 The value of [vF] is copied onto [uF].
Relations and definitions
[21]	 Head:(3.20)
	The head of an SO Σ is the LI that determines compositional interpretation of Σ at SEM
by means of its features.
[22]	 Syntactic Object (SO):(2.18/3.2)
	 Σ is a syntactic object (SO) iff
	 a.	 Σ is an LI, or
	 b.	 Σ is a set {Σ1, . . . , Σn}, where Σ1, . . . , Σn are SOs.
[23]	 Constitute (Consist-of):(2.19/3.28/4.63)
	 α and β constitute γ (or conversely, γ consists of α and β) iff γ is the output of Merge(α, β).
	 Appendix: List of propositions	 235
[24]	 Term-of:(2.20)
	 For any SO K,
	 a.	 K is a term of K;
	 b.	 If K is a term of L and K = {Σ1, . . . , Σn}, then Σ1, . . . , Σn are terms of L.
[25]	 External Merge vs. Internal Merge (2.28/3.109; note 21 of Chapter 3)
	Merge(α, β) counts as Internal Merge (IM) if one of α, β is a term of the other. If not,
Merge(α, β) counts as External Merge (EM).
Semantics (Interpret)
[26]	 Interpret EM: (3.55; see [39])
	 If {H, α} is formed by EM, the core semantic properties of {H, α} are determined promi-
nently by the semantic features of the head H, and α is interpreted relative to H.
[27]	 Interpret IM: (3.53; see [39])
	{H, α} formed by IM of H contributes to an operator-variable formation where the logical
operator Op, characterized by the semantic features of H, scopes over α, and the copy of
H within α is interpreted as a logical variable bound by Op.
Phonology (Spell-Out, specifically for linearization)
[28]	 Order Preservation Convention:*(4.71)
	 a.	 If a sequence X ≫ Y is generated prior to a sequence X ≫ Z, then map these sequences
to X ≫ Y ≫ Z.
	 b.	 If a sequence X ≫ Y is generated prior to a sequence Z ≫ Y, then map these sequences
to Z ≫ X ≫ Y.
[29]	 Elsewhere Condition on Linearization Rules:(4.79)
	 The most highly specified rule takes priority over less specified ones when both are
applicable.
Lexicon
Lexical items (LIs)
[30]	 Elements stored in the Lexicon (LIs) = atomic elements for Merge = atomic elements for
head-detection.(3.143)
Formal features
[31]	 N:	 a.	 [N] (categorial feature) (§ 2.5.2)
		 b.	[vφ] (person, number, gender)†
[32]	 D:	a.	[vφ]† (§ 2.5.2)
		 b.	 [vQ] ([±Definite], [±Quantifier], [±WH], etc.)
*	 “X ≫ Y” stands for “X immediately precedes Y.”
†	 The specification of φ-features is subject to parametric variation. Some languages use the
full set of active person, number and gender features (e.g., German), while others may lack some
or all of the features (English lacks syntactically active gender features, Japanese lacks the entire
set of active φ-features in its Lexicon, etc.).
236	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
[33]	 K(ase):	a.	[uCase] (to be valued by Agree with C, v*, P, etc.)
			 b.	[uQ] (to be valued by Agree with D; [±Definite], [±Quantifier], [±WH], etc.)
			 c.	[uφ]† (to be valued by Agree with D and N)
 (§ 2.5.2; 3.43; see also [82] and [83])
[34]	 V:	 a.	 [V] (categorial feature, probably assigned by v)
		 b.	[θ] (the θ-role to be assigned to the internal argument K)
		 c.	[uT] (in languages with V0-movement to T; see § 3.5.2) (§ 2.5.2)
[35]	 v:	 [V] (categorial feature) (§ 2.5.2)
[36]	 v*:	a.	[V]
		 b.	[uφ]† (to be valued by Agree with K; perhaps inherited to V)
		 c.	 [Acc] (the ability to assign Accusative Case to K)
		 d.	[θ] (the θ-role to be assigned to the external argument K) (§ 2.5.2)
[37]	 T:	[uφ]†	(to be valued by Agree with K; absent or defective in raising/ECM infinitivals;
perhaps inherited from C) (§ 2.5.2; see also note 31 of Chapter 2)
[38]	 C:	 a.	 [Nom] (the ability to assign Nominative Case to K)
		 b.	 [±Finite] (finiteness)
		 c.	 [±WH] (§ 2.5.2, § 3.5.1; see also note 31 of Chapter 2)
Semantic features
[39]	 Semantic features of LIs:(3.18)
	 Features of each LI H provide, at the very least, instructions for Interpret regarding how H
contributes to the interpretation of the SO it is embedded into, the smallest one of which
is {H, α}.
[40]	 Semantic features of v:	 (5.39)
	If v is singled out as the head of {v, α},
	a.	
v assigns a verbal interpretation to α in {v, α}.
	b.	
v* assigns the external θ-role to α in {v*, α}, under the condition that α is headed by K.
Phonological features
[41]	 Phonological features of each LI H determine whether H in {H, α} is prefixed or suffixed
to Lin(α).‡ (4.57)
Language-specific linearization rules
[42]	 English:(4.58)
	 a.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α}, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α).
	 b.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and Σ is generated at a phase level, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α),
and no phonological interpretation is assigned to H at any other positions within the
phase.
‡	 Lin(α) stands for the linear sequence of LIs assigned to the SO α.
	 Appendix: List of propositions	 237
[43]	 Japanese:(4.59)
	 a.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α}, map Σ to Lin(α) ≫ H.
	 b.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and Σ is generated at a phase level, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α),
and no phonological interpretation is assigned to H at any other positions within the
phase.
[44]	 German:(4.78)
	 a.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and it is [+N], map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α).
	 b.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and it is [+V], map Σ to Lin(α) ≫ H.
	 c.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and it is C, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α).
	 d.	 If H is the head of Σ = {H, α} and Σ is generated at a phase level, map Σ to H ≫ Lin(α),
and no phonological interpretation is assigned to H at any other positions within the
phase.
Consequences
Full Interpretation
[45]	 Strict Compositionality of Interpret:(3.17)
	 The value of Interpret({α, β}) is determined by the values of Interpret(α) and Interpret(β).
[46]	 Optimal Compositionality Thesis (OCT):(3.22/5.3)
	 Endocentricity (head-detection) reduces to the minimized inspection of features of LIs
relevant to compositional interpretation at Interpret/Spell-Out.
[47]	 Universal Endocentricity:(5.66)
	 Every phrase is headed by an LI.
[48]	 MHD derives from the third factor, i.e., physical and mathematical principles of minimal
computation not specific to any part of FL, and its effect govern both Interpret and
Spell-Out in a domain-general fashion, requiring no independent syntactic operation.
 (§ 5.2.4)
[49]	 The effect of endocentricity (interpretive centrality of head LIs) plays no role in NS.
 (5.4; see § 5.2; cf. the “branching argument” (5.42))
[50]	 Interpret can choose which occurrence(s) of copies (created by IM and Agree) to assign
CI-interpretation at SEM. (5.60)
[51]	 Ban on Exocentricity:(3.24/5.43)
	 Exocentric (non-endocentric) SOs of the form {XP, YP} are ruled out by FI.
[52]	 Each phrasal SO can efficiently receive compositional interpretation at SEM via the
semantic features of the head. (3.19)
[53]	 As MC severely restricts the properties and distribution of semantic features of LIs,
n for Merge(Σ1 . . . , Σn) is always restricted to n ≤ 2.  (note 2 of Chapter 3; see also [92])
[54]	 θ-Criterion: (§ 2.5.2; § 3.4.1; § 3.6.2)
	 Due to FI, each K be assigned a θ-role and each θ-role be appropriately assigned to a K.
[55]	 θ-role assignment by H to α is achieved in the structure {H, α} created by EM. (3.32/3.56)
[56]	 If H undergoes IM, the semantic features of H are interpreted at the highest occurrence
of H, where the scope of the logical operator is determined. (3.103)
238	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
[57]	 If H in {H, α} is not the highest occurrence of H created by IM, Interpret chooses not to
assign interpretation to H’s semantic features in {H, α}.  (3.104/5.55)
[58]	 Adjuncts are elements that provide background descriptions of the matrix constituent they
adjoin to, and the interpretation of the matrix is relativized to the semantics of adjoined
materials, in line with the Interpret EM rule in [26]. (§ 3.6.4)
[59]	 Traces of IM are visible in themselves to NS or MHD-based computation at Interpret, but
their semantic features are rendered inactive and not chosen for interpretation at SEM.
 (§ 5.3.2)
[60]	 Unvalued features receive no interpretation at SEM and PHON, and the failure to value
them by means of Agree violates FI [8]. (2.56; note 8 of Chapter 5)
[61]	Valued φ-features on T receive no CI-interpretation. (5.56)
Cyclic derivation by phase
[62]	 An SO Σ is subjected to Transfer as soon as a certain term Σ′ (i.e., the interior) of Σ becomes
convergent.(2.57/3.33)
[63]	 Derivational Simultaneity: (2.88b; see § 2.4, § 2.7)
	 Interpret, Spell-Out, and copy-formation operations (IM and Agree) apply simultaneously
in the form of Transfer.
[64]	 Instances of EM apply prior to instances of IM and Agree in a given phase. (2.73)
[65]	 If Transfer eliminates an SO α, the phrasal SO {X, α} within the workspace of NS is reduced
to X. (3.29)
[66]	 Phase-Impenetrability Condition (PIC):(2.50/3.41)
	 After Transfer applies to a phase Σ, the interior of Σ becomes inaccessible to further
computation of NS.
[67]	 UG employs unvalued features as a device to efficiently demarcate phase cycles.
 (2.63; see 2.56)
Rules and relations
[68]	 No violation of the IC [9] or the NTC [10] is warranted: referential indices and distinctness
marking, pre-NS assembly of LIs in the form of Numeration or lexical subarray, etc., are
thus naturally dispensed with in favor of phase theory. (2.88g; see Chapter 2)
[69]	 Insertion and tampering are disallowed because there are no such operations in syntax as
a matter of principle. (2.90)
[70]	 Syntax assumes no mechanism of projection or feature-percolation. (Chapter 3)
[71]	 In projection-free syntax, there can be no syntactic relation R that holds between the
projected/copied “label” symbol X of an SO Σ and any SO contained within Σ (“c-command,”
“dominance,” etc.). (4.38)
[72]	 C-command may be a dispensable notion, and various considerations that used to build on
c-command, such as Agree and also some aspects of binding, can be reduced to minimal
search for establishing probe-goal relations.	 (§ 4.2.4)
	 Appendix: List of propositions	 239
[73]	 C(ategorial)-selection and subcategorization are entirely reducible to s(emantic)-selection,
and s-selection plays virtually no role in NS. (note 8 of Chapter 4, § 5.2.1, § 5.2.3.3)
[74]	 The notion of “specifier” can be entirely eliminated from the theory of NS. (§ 5.2.3)
The Endocentric Structuring Constraint and conditions on movement
[75]	 Endocentric Structuring Constraint (ESC):(3.25/4.2)
	 Merge can only generate SOs whose head LI H is immediately detectable via minimal
search at Interpret/Spell-Out.
[76]	 Cyclic Transfer is critically in service of merger of two XPs. (Chapter 3)
[77]	 Only LIs can undergo IM in conformity with the ESC [75]. (3.38)
[78]	 Head-movement is an instance of LI-LI sideward external remerge, applying at the phase
level. (§ 2.8; cf. note 21 of Chapter 3)
[79]	 No notion of “phrasal copies” is available in ESC-based syntax, and the problem of copy-
identification for phrasal constituents can be totally dispensed with, to the extent that the
ESC permits no “XP-movement”, namely IM of phrasal SOs.
 (note 36 of Chapter 2; note 10 of Chapter 3)
[80]	 Complementarity of XP- and X0-movement:(3.64)
	 a.	 Only phases can undergo “XP”-movement (viz. movement of a phase head that has
subjected its complement to Transfer)
	 b.	 Non-phase-head LIs can only undergo movement by themselves (i.e., X0-movement).
[81]	a.	ok.CP-movement vs. *C0-movement(3.70)
	 b.	 *TP-movement vs. ok.T0-movement
	 c.	 *VP-movement vs. ok.V0-movement
	d.	
ok.KP-movement vs. *K0-movement
	e.	
ok.PP-movement vs. *P0-movement
[82]	 Wh-pied-piping reduces to an instance of IM of K whose [uQ] is valued [+WH] via Agree
(cf. Cable’s (2007, 2010) Q). (§ 3.4.2.3)
[83]	 Moved Clausal Complement Generalization: (3.74, Option 2 in § 3.5.1)
	 A clausal complement is allowed to move only if its base-generated position is one in
which a KP is allowed to appear.
[84]	 If X0-movement applies (or is applicable) to v0 in a derivation D, then vP does not constitute
a phase and it is immune to the PIC effect in D. (3.82)
[85]	 Freezing Effect:(3.89/4.21)
	 A moved SO constitutes an island for extraction.
[86]	 *{t, t}:(3.101)
	 CI cannot assign a legitimate interpretation to an SO whose two members are both copies/
traces created by IM.
[87]	 The CED effect arises for moved subjects but not for in-situ subjects.  (§ 3.6.3)
[88]	 The CED effect arises for “high” adjuncts but not for “low” adjuncts (except cases of ECM
constructions). (§ 3.6.4)
240	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
[89]	 Complement Island:(3.117)
	 If subextraction applies from the Spec of H, then the complement of H becomes an island
for extraction.
[90]	 Phrasal Sister Condition (PSC):(3.135)
	 No syntactic operation (IM or Agree) can relate X and Y in the structure
	 . . . X . . . {[α . . . Y . . . ], [β . . . ]} . . . (order irrelevant)
	where β is phrasal (not an LI or a phase which has been reduced to an LI by Transfer).
Lexicon
[91]	 There is no need to stipulate any extraneous “P(eriphery)-features,” “EPP-feature” or “edge-
feature” in the theory of the Lexicon, e.g., as a device to trigger IM or Merge in general.
 (§ 3.4.2.4, § 3.6.6, § 5.2.2)
[92]	 MC restricts the information (features) stored in each LI H to a bare minimum, i.e., the one
that is minimally required for compositional interpretation of the smallest compositional
SO H can be embedded into, namely {H, α}. (note 2 of Chapter 3; see also [53])
Acquisition
[93]	 The ESC [75] provides a strong analytic means for the acquisition of LIs. (§ 3.7)
[94]	 Visibility Guideline for Functional Categories:(3.144/5.29)
	 A functional category has to be visible (i.e., detectable) in the primary linguistic data.
[95]	 If the most deeply embedded element is always assigned the primary stress in the structure
(as assumed in Cinque’s 1993 theory of nuclear stress), the stressed/unstressed distinction
is made to correlate with the α/H- (i.e., XP/X0-) distinction of each SO {H, α}. This greatly
facilitates the ESC-based analysis of linguistic structures, not only at the sentential- and
phrasal levels but maybe also at the word-internal level, too.  (§ 3.7)
Word order and linearization
[96]	 The Order Preservation Convention [28] can be understood as a natural extension of the
PIC [66], as it serves to maximally preserve the phonological coherence of each phase at
PHON.	 (§ 4.5)
[97]	 The Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA) has no place in projection-free syntax.
 (§ 4.2.4)
[98]	 Weak Antisymmetry: (4.39; see also strong antisymmetry (4.40))
	 No two natural languages can be mirror images of one another.
[99]	 Sentence-initial complementizers are almost always crosslinguistically null in root-clauses,
whereas there are numerous examples of sentence-final complementizers, predominantly
appearing in root clauses. (note 24 of Chapter 4)
References
Abels, Klaus. 2001. Successive cyclicity, anti-locality, and adposition-stranding. PhD dissertation,
University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Abels, Klaus & Neeleman, Ad. 2009. Universal 20 without the LCA. In Merging Features: Com-
putation, Interpretation and Acquisition, Josep M. Brucart, Anna Gavarró, & Jaume Solà
(eds), 60–80. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Abney, Steven Paul. 1987. The noun phrase in its sentential aspect. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Ackema, Peter & Neeleman, Ad. 2002. Effects of short-term storage in processing rightward
movement. In Storage and Computation in the Langauge Faculty: Studies in Theoretical
Psycholinguistics, Sieb Nooteboom, Fred Weerman, & Frank Wijnen (eds), 219–256. Kluwer.
Agbayani, Brian, Golston, Chris, & Ishii, Toru. 2012. Prosodic scrambling. In Proceedings of the
5th Formal Approaches to Japanese Linguistics Conference (FAJL5), Matthew A. Tucker, Anie
Thompson, Oliver Northrup, & Ryan Benett (eds), 15–24. MITWPL.
Alexiadou, Artemis & Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2001. The subject-in-situ generalization and the
role of case in driving computations. Linguistic Inquiry 32(2): 193–231.
Alrenga, Peter. 2005. A sentential subject asymmetry in English and its implications for comple-
ment selection. Syntax 8: 175–207.
Asbury, Anna. 2008. The Morphosyntax of Case and Adpositions. Utrecht: LOT.
Baker, Mark C. 1988. Incorporation: A Theory of Grammatical Function Changing. Chicago, IL:
University of Chicago Press.
Baker, Mark C. 1996. The Polysynthesis Parameter. New York: Oxford University Press.
Baker, Mark C. 2003. Lexical Categories: Verbs Nouns and Adjectives. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Barwise, Jon & Cooper, Robin. 1981. Generalized quantifiers and natural language. Linguistics
and Philosophy 4: 159–209.
Belletti, Adriana. 2001. ‘Inversion’ as focalization. In Subject Inversion in Romance and the Theory
of Universal Grammar, Aafke Hulk & Jean-Yves Pollock (eds), 60–90. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Berwick, Robert C., Pietroski, Paul, Yankama, Beracah, & Chomsky, Noam. 2011. Poverty of the
stimulus revisited. Cognitive Science 35: 1207–1242.
den Besten, Hans & Webelhuth, Gert. 1990. Stranding. In Scrambling and Barriers, Günther
Grewendorfand & Wolfgang Sternefeld (eds), 77–92. New York: Academic Press.
Bever, Thomas G. & Poeppel, David. 2010. Analysis by synthesis: A (re-)emerging program of
research for language and vision. Biolinguistics 4(2–3): 174–200.
Biberauer, Theresa, Holmberg, Anders, & Roberts, Ian. 2008. Structure and linearization in dis-
harmonic word orders. In Proceedings of WCCFL26, Somerville, MA., 96–104. Cascadilla
Proceedings Project.
Bittner, Maria & Hale, Ken. 1996a. The structural determination of Case and agreement. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 27: 1–68.
242	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Bittner, Maria & Hale, Ken. 1996b. Ergativity: Toward a theory of a heterogeneous class. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 27: 531–604.
Bloomfield, Leonard. 1933. Language. New York: Henry Holt.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David. 1995. Morphosyntax: The syntax of verbal inflection. PhD disserta-
tion, MIT.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David & Brown, S. 1997. Inter-arboreal operations: Head-movement and the
extension requirement. Linguistic Inquiry 28: 345–356.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2003. Islands and Chains. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2008a. Bare Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2008b. A note on object EPP. ms. Harvard University.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2008c. Understanding Minimalist Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2009. On the locus of asymmetry in UG. Catalan Journal of Linguistics 8: 41–53.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2010a. Defeating lexicocentrism. ms. ICREA/UAB. <http://ling.auf.net/ling-
Buzz/ 001130>.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2010b. A tale of two minimalisms: Reflections on the plausibility of crash-proof
syntax, and its free-merge alternative. In Exploring Crash-proof Grammars, Michael Putnam
(ed), 105–124. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2011. Approaching parameters from below. In The Biolinguistic Enterprise: New
Perspectives on the Evolution and Nature of the Human Language Faculty, Anna Maria Di
Sciullo & Cedric Boeckx (eds), 205–221. Cambridge, MA: Oxford University Press.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2012. Phases beyond explanatory adequacy. In Phases: Developing the Frame-
work, Ángel J. Gallego (ed), 45–66. Mouton de Gruyter.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2014. Elementary Syntactic Structures: Prospects of a Feature-free Syntax.
­
Cambridge: ­
Cambridge University Press.
Boeckx, Cedric & Grohmann, Kleanthes K. 2007. Putting phases into perspective. Syntax 10:
204–222.
Boeckx, Cedric & Stjepanović, Sandra. 2001. Head-ing toward PF. Linguistic Inquiry 32: 345–355.
Boeckx, Cedric & Uriagereka, Juan. 2007. Minimalism. In The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic
Interfaces, Gillian Ramchand & Charles Reiss (eds), 541–573. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Borer, Hagit. 2005. Structuring Sense, Volume I: In Name Only. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Borgonovo, Claudia & Neeleman, Ad. 2000. Transparent Adjuncts. Canadian Journal of Lin-
guistics 45: 199–224.
Bošković, Željko. 1997. The Syntax of Nonfinite Complementation: An Economy Approach.
­
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bošković, Željko. 2002a. A-movement and the EPP. Syntax 5: 167–218.
Bošković, Željko. 2002b. On multiple wh-fronting. Linguistic Inquiry 33: 351–383.
Bošković, Željko. 2005. On the locality of left branch extraction and the structure of np. Studia
Linguistica 59: 1–45.
Bošković, Željko. 2007. On the locality and motivation of Move and Agree: An even more mini-
mal theory. Linguistic Inquiry 38: 589–644.
Bošković, Željko. 2008. What will you have, DP or NP? In Proceedings of NELS37, Emily Elfner
& Martin Walkow (eds). Amherst, MA.: GLSA.
Brame, Michael. 1981. The general theory of binding and fusion. Linguistic Analysis 7.3: 277–325.
Brame, Michael. 1982. The head-selector theory of lexical specifications and the nonexistence
of coarse categories. Linguistic Analysis 10.4: 321–325.
	References	
243
Bresnan, John W. 1970. On complementizers: Toward a syntactic theory of complement types.
Foundations of Language 6: 297–321.
Bresnan, John W. 1972. Theory of complementation in English syntax. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Brody, Michael. 2000. Mirror theory: Syntactic representation in perfect syntax. Linguistic In-
quiry 31: 29–56.
Cable, Seth. 2007. The grammar of Q. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Cable, Seth. 2010. The Grammar of Q: Q-Particles, Wh-Movement, and PiedPiping. Oxford:
­
Oxford University Press.
Caha, Pavel. 2009. The nanosyntax of case. PhD dissertation, University of Toromsø.
Carnie, Andrew. 2002. Syntax: A Generative Introduciton. Blackwell.
Carnie, Andrew. 2008. Constituent Structure. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Carstens, Vicki. 2000. Concord in minimalist theory. Linguistic Inquiry 31: 319–355.
Carstens, Vicki. 2003. Rethinking complementizer agreement: Agree with a Case checked goal.
Linguistic Inquiry 34: 393–412.
Cattell, Ray. 1976. Constraints on movement rules. Language 52: 18–50.
Cecchetto, Carlo. 2007. Some preliminary remarks on a ‘weak’ theory of linearization. Annali On-
line di Ferrara Lettere 1: 1–13. <http://eprints.unife.it/annali/lettere/2007vol1/indice.htm>.
Cecchetto, Carlo. 2013. Backward dependencies must be short: A unified account of the Final-
over-Final and the Right Roof Constraints and its consequences for the syntax/morphology­
interface. In Challenges to Linearization, Theresa Biberauer & Ian Roberts (eds), 57–92.
Berlin: Mouton.
Cecchetto, Carlo & Donati, Caterina. 2010a. A head is a head is a head. ms. University of Milan-
Bicocca and University of Rome-La Sapienza.
Cecchetto, Carlo & Donati, Caterina. 2010b. Relabeling heads: A unified accout for relativization
structures. ms. University of Milan-Bicocca and University of Rome-La Sapienza. <http://
ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/001014>.
Ceplová, Markéta. 2001. Minimalist islands: Restricting P-features. ms. MIT. Chametzky, ­Robert
A. 2000. Phrase Structure: From GB to Minimalism. Oxford: Blackwell.
Chierchia, Gennaro. 1998. Reference to kinds across languages. Natural Language Semantics
6: 339–405.
Chomsky, Noam. 1955/1975b. The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory. ms. Harvard University,
1955. Published in part in 1975, New York: Plenum.
Chomsky, Noam. 1957. Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton. 2nd edition, (2002).
Chomsky, Noam. 1959. On certain formal properties of grammars. Information and Control 2:
137–167. Reprinted in R. Duncan Luce, Robert R. Bush, and Eugene Galanter, eds. (1965),
Readings in Mathematical Psychology, Volume II, 125–155, New York: John Wiley and Sons.
Chomsky, Noam. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1966/2002/2009a. Cartesian Linguistics: A Chapter in the History of Rationalist
Thought. New York: Harper & Row. 2nd edition with new introduction by James McGilvray,
Christchurch NZ: Cybereditions; 3rd edition supplemented with new introduction by James
McGilvray, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1968. Language and Mind. New York: Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovitch.
Chomsky, Noam. 1970. Remarks on nominalization. In Readings in English Transformational
Grammar, Roderick A. Jacobs & Peter S. Rosenbaum (eds), 184–221. Waltham, MA: Ginn.
Chomsky, Noam. 1973. Conditions on transformations. In A Festschrift for Morris Halle, Stephen
Anderson & Paul Kiparsky (eds), 232–286. New York: Rinehart and Winston.
244	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Chomsky, Noam. 1975a. Reflections on Language. New York: Pantheon.
Chomsky, Noam. 1977. Essays on Form and Interpretation. New York: North-Holland.
Chomsky, Noam. 1980a. On binding. Linguistic Inquiry 11: 1–46.
Chomsky, Noam. 1980b. On cognitive structures and their development. In Language and Learn-
ing: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky, Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini (ed),
35–52. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, Noam. 1982. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Government and Binding Theory.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986a. Barriers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986b. Knowledge of Language. New York: Praeger.
Chomsky, Noam. 1987. Generative Grammar: Its Basis, Development and Prospects. Studies in
English Linguistics and Literature. Kyoto: Kyoto University of Foreign Studies.
Chomsky, Noam. 1993. A minimalist program for linguistic theory. In The View from Building
20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger, Ken Hale & Samuel J. Keyser (eds),
1–52. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1994. Bare phrase structure. MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics 5: Depart-
ment of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT. Reprinted in G. Webelhuth, ed. (1995), Malden:
Blackwell, Government and Binding Theory and the Minimalist Program, 383–439.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995a. Language and nature. Mind 104. 413: 1–61.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995b. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000a. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Step by Step: Essays on Mini-
malist Syntax in Honor of Howard Lasnik, Roger Martin, David Michaels, & Juan Uriagereka
(eds), 89–155. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000b. New Horizons in the Study of Language and Mind. Cambridge:
­
Cambridge University Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Ken Hale: A Life in Language, Michael ­Kenstowicz
(ed), 1–52. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2004. Beyond explanatory adequacy. In Structures and Beyond: The Cartog-
raphy of Syntactic Structures, Adriana Belletti (ed), 104–131. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2005. Three factors in the language design. Linguistic Inquiry 36: 1–22.
Chomsky, Noam. 2007a. Approaching UG from below. In Interfaces + Recursion = Language?:
Chomsky’s Minimalism and the View from Semantics, Uli Sauerland & Hans-Martin Gärtner
(eds), 1–29. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chomsky, Noam. 2007b. Biolinguistic explorations: Design, development, evolution. Interna-
tional Journal of Philosophical Studies 15(1): 1–21.
Chomsky, Noam. 2007c. Of minds and language. Biolinguistics 1: 9–27.
Chomsky, Noam. 2008. On phases. In Foundational Issues in Linguistic Theory: Essays in Honor
of Jean-Roger Vergnaud, Robert Freidin, Carlos Otero, & Maria Luisa Zubizarreta (eds),
133–166. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2009b. The mysteries of nature: How deeply hidden? The Journal of Philosophy
16(4): 167–200.
Chomsky, Noam. 2012. Introduction. In Gengokisoronshu [Foundations of Biolinguistics: Selected
Writings], Naoki Fukui (ed), 17–26. Iwanami Shoten.
Chomsky, Noam. 2013. Problems of projection. Lingua 130: 33–49.
Chomsky, Noam & Lasnik, Howard. 1977. Filters and control. Linguistic Inquiry 8(3): 425–504.
	References	
245
Chomsky, Noam & Lasnik, Howard. 1993. The theory of principles and parameters. In Syntax:
An International Handbook of Contemporary Research, Vol. 1, Joachim Jacobs, Arnim von
Stechow, Wolfgang Sternefeld, & Theo Vennemann (eds), 506–569. Walter de Gruyter. Re-
printed in Chomsky (1995b).
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1993. A null theory of phrase and compound stress. Linguistic Inquiry 24:
239–298.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1999. Adverbs and Functional Heads: A Cross-linguistic Perspective. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2002. Functional Structure in DP and IP: The Cartography of Syntactic Struc-
tures, Vol. 1. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2005. Deriving Greenberg’s universal 20 and its exceptions. Linguistic In-
quiry 36: 315–332.
Cinque, Guglielmo & Rizzi, Luigi (eds). 2010. Mapping Spatial PPs: The Cartography of Syntactic
Structures, Vol. 6. New York: Oxford University Press.
Collins, Chris. 2002. Eliminating labels. In Derivation and Explanation in the Minimalist Pro-
gram, Samuel David Epstein & T. Daniel Seely (eds), 42–64. Oxford: Blackwell.
Corver, Norbert. 2006. Freezing effects. In The Blackwell Companion to Syntax II, Martin ­Everaert
& Henk van Riemsdijk (eds), 383–406. Oxford: Blackwell.
Crain, Stephen & Nakayama, Mineharu. 1987. Structure dependence in grammar formation.
Language 63: 522–543.
Culicover, Peter W. 1982. Syntax. New York/London: Academic Press.
den Dikken, Marcel. 1995. Binding, expletives and levels. Linguistic Inquiry 26: 347–354.
Donati, Caterina. 2006. On wh-head-movement. In Wh-movement: Moving on, Lisa L.-S. Cheng
& N. Corver (eds), 21–46. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Embick, David & Marantz, Alec. 2008. Architecture and blocking. Linguistic Inquiry 39: 1–53.
Emonds, Joseph. 2009. Valuing V features and N features: What adjuncts tell us about case,
agreement, and syntax in general. In Merging Features: Computation, Interpretation and
Acquisition, Josep M. Brucart, Anna Gavarró, & Jaume Solà (eds), 194–214. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Emonds, Joseph E. 1970. Root and structure-preserving transformations. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Emonds, Joseph E. 1976. A Transformational Approach to English Syntax: Root, Structure-
preserving­
, and Local Transformations. New York, NY: Academic Press.
Endo, Yoshio. 1996. Right dislocation. In MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 29: Formal Ap-
proaches to Japanese Linguistics 2, 1–20. MITWPL.
Epstein, Samuel David. 1999. Un-principled syntax: The derivation of syntactic relations.
In Working Minimalism, Samuel David Epstein & Norbert Hornstein (eds), 317–345.
­
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Epstein, Samuel David. 2009. The unification of theta relations: How TRANSFER renders SpecvP
a theta marked complement. ms. University of Michigan.
Epstein, Samuel David, Groat, Erich M., Kawashima, Ruriko, & Kitahara, Hisatsugu. 1998.
A Derivational Approach to Syntactic Relations. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Epstein, Samuel David, Kitahara, Hisatsugu, & Seely, T. Daniel. 2010. Uninterpretable features;
what are they and what do they do? In Exploring Crash-proof Grammars, Michael Putnam
(ed), 124–142. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Epstein, Samuel David, Kitahara, Hisatsugu, & Seely, T. Daniel. 2012. Structure building that
can’t be! In Ways of Structure Building, Myriam UribeEtxebarria & Vidal Valmala (eds),
253–270. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
246	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Epstein, Samuel David & Seely, T. Daniel. 2002. Rule applications as cycles in a level-free syntax.
In Derivation and Explanation in the Minimalist Program, Samuel David Epstein & T. Daniel
Seely (eds), 65–89. Oxford: Blackwell.
Epstein, Samuel David & Seely, T. Daniel. 2005. Transformations and Derivations. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Fiengo, Robert & May, Robert. 1994. Indices and Identity. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Fitch, W. Tecumseh, Hauser, Marc D., & Chomsky, Noam. 2005. The evolution of the language
faculty: Clarifications and implications. Cognition 97: 179–210.
Fodor, Jerry A. 1975. The Language of Thought. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Fodor, Jerry A. 2008. LOT2: The Language of Thought Revisited. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fox, Danny & Nissenbaum, Jon. 1999. Extraposition and scope: A case for overt QR. In Proceed-
ings of WCCFL 18, Sonya Bird, Andrew Carnie, Jason D. Haugen, & Peter Norquest (eds),
132–144. Somerville, MA.: Cascadilla Press.
Fox, Danny & Pesetsky, David. 2005. Cyclic linearization of syntactic structure. Theoretical Lin-
guistics 31: 1–45.
Frampton, John & Gutmann, Sam. 2000. Agreement is feature sharing. ms. Northeastern
University.
Freidin, Robert & Lasnik, Howard. 1981. Disjoint refernece and wh-trace. Linguistic Inquiry
12: 39–53.
Fujita, Koji. 2007. Facing the logical problem of language evolution. English Linguistics 24(1):
78–108.
Fujita, Koji. 2009. A prospect for evolutionary adequacy: Merge and the evolution and develop-
ment of human language. Biolinguistics 3(2–3): 128–153.
Fukui, Naoki. 1986/1995b. A theory of category projection and its applications. PhD dissertation,
MIT. Published in 1995 with revisions as Theory of Projection in Syntax, Kurosio Publishers
and CSLI publications.
Fukui, Naoki. 1988. Deriving the differences between English and Japanese: A case study in
parametric syntax. English Linguistics 5: 249–270.
Fukui, Naoki. 1993. Parameters and optionality. Linguistic Inquiry 24: 399–420. Reprinted in
Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki. 1995a. The principles-and-parameters approach: A comparative syntax of English
and Japanese. In Approaches to Language Typology, Masayoshi Shibatani & Theodora Bynon
(eds), 327–371. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki. 1996. On the nature of economy in language. Cognitive Studies (Bulletin of the
Japanese Cognitive Science Society), 3: 51–71. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki. 1999. An A-over-A perspective on locality. In Linguistics: In Search of the Human
Mind: A Festschrift for Kazuko Inoue, Masatake Muraki & Enoch Iwamoto (eds), 109–127.
Tokyo: Kaitakusha. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki. 2001. Phrase structure. In The Handbook of Contemporary Syntactic Theory, Mark
Baltin & Chris Collins (eds), 374–406. Oxford: Blackwell. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki. 2006. Theoretical Comparative Syntax: Studies in Macroparameters. London/New
York: Routledge.
Fukui, Naoki. 2008. Gengo-no kihonenzan-o meguru oboegaki [A note concerning basic op-
erations in language]. In Gengokenkyuu-no Genzai: Keishiki-to Imi-no Intaafeisu [The State
of the Art in Linguistic Research: The Syntax-Semantics Interface], Yoshiaki Kaneko, Akira
Kikuchi, & Daiko Takahashi (eds), 1–21. Tokyo: Kaitakusha.
	References	
247
Fukui, Naoki. 2011. Merge and bare phrase structure. In The Oxford Handbook of Linguistic
Minimalism, Cedric Boeckx (ed), 73–95. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fukui, Naoki & Kasai, Hironobu. 2004. Spelling-Out scrambling. Linguistic Variation Yearbook
4.1: 109–141.
Fukui, Naoki & Sakai, Hiromu. 2003. The visibility guideline for functional categories: Verb
raising in Japanese and related issues. Lingua 113: 321–375. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki & Speas, Margaret. 1986. Specifiers and projection. MIT Working Papers in Lin-
guistics 8: 128–172. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki & Takano, Yuji. 1998. Symmetry in syntax: Merge and Demerge. Journal of East
Asian Linguistics 7: 27–86. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki & Takano, Yuji. 2000. Nominal structure: An extension of the Symmetry Prin-
ciple. In The Derivation of VO and OV, Peter Svenonius (ed), 219–254. Amsterdam: John
­
Benjamins. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Fukui, Naoki & Zushi, Mihoko. 2008. On certain differences between noun phrases and clauses.
In Essays on Nominal Determination, Henrik Høeg Müller & Alex Klinge (eds), 265–285.
John Benjamins.
Gallego, Ángel J. 2007. Phase theory and parametric variation. PhD dissertation, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona.
Gallego, Ángel J. 2010. Phase Theory. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gambell, Timothy & Yang, Charles D. 2003. Scope and limits of statistical learning in word
segmentation. In Proceedings of NELS 34, 29–30.
Georgopoulos, Carol Perkins. 1991. Syntactic Variables: Resumptive Pronouns and Binding in
Palauan. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Goto, Nobu. 2010. Some consequences of feature inheritance. In English Literature, Regional
Branches Combined Issue III, 113–136. The Tohoku Branch of the English Literary Society
of Japan.
Goto, Nobu. 2011. Feature-inheritance: Its effects on Agree, Move, and Delete. PhD dissertation,
Tohoku Gakuin University.
Graffi, Giorgio. 2001. 200 Years of Syntax: A Critical Survey. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grimshaw, Jane B. 1982. Subcategorization and grammatical relations. In Subjects and Other
Subjects: Proceedings of the Harvard Conference on the Representation of Grammatical Rela-
tions, Annie Zaenen (ed), 35–55. Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Grimshaw, Jane B. 1991/2005. Extended projection. In Words and Structure, 1–73 (final version
of the manuscript written in 1991). CSLI Publications.
Groat, Erich. 1997. A derivational program for syntactic theory. PhD dissertation, Harvard
University.
Groat, Erich. 1999. Raising the case of expletives. In Working Minimalism, Samuel David Epstein
& Norbert Hornstein (eds), 27–44. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Groat, Erich & O’Neil, John. 1996. Spell-Out at the LF interface: Achieving a unified syntac-
tic computational system in the minimalist framework. In Minimal Ideas: Syntactic Stud-
ies in the Minimalist Framework, Werner Abraham, Samuel David Epstein, Höskuldur
­
Thráinsson, & Jan-Wouter Zwart (eds), 113–139. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Guimarães, Maximiliano. 2000. In defense of vacuous projections in bare phrase structure.
University Of Maryland Working Papes In Linguistics 9: 90–115.
Hagstrom, Paul. 1998. Decomposing questions. PhD dissertation, MIT.
248	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Haider, Hubert. 1990. Topicalization and other puzzles of German syntax. In Scrambling and
Barriers, Gunther Grewendorf & Wolfgang Sternefeld (eds), 93–111. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Hale, Ken & Keyser, Samuel J. 1993. On argument structure and the lexical expression of gram-
matical relations. In The View from Building 20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain
Bromberger, Ken Hale & Samuel J. Keyser (eds), 53–110. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hale, Ken & Keyser, Samuel J. 2002. Prolegomenon to a Theory of Argument Structure. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Halle, Morris & Marantz, Alec. 1993. Distributed morphology and the pieces of inflection. In
The View from Building 20: Essays in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger, Ken Hale
& Samuel J. Keyser (eds), 111–176. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Halle, Morris & Marantz, Alec. 1994. Some key features of Distributed Morphology. MIT Work-
ing Papers in Linguistics 21: 275–288.
Halle, Morris & Stevens, Kenneth. 1959. Analysis by synthesis. In Proceedings of Seminar on
Speech Compression and Processing, Vol. 2, paper D7.
Halle, Morris & Stevens, Kenneth. 1963. Speech recognition: A model and a program for re-
search. IRE Transactions on Information Theory 8: 155–159. [Reprinted in Morris Halle.
2002. From Memory to Speech and Back. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.].
Hankamer, Jorge & Knecht, Laura. 1976. The role of the subject/non-subject distinction in deter-
mining the choice of relative clause participle in Turkish. Proceedings of the North Eastern
Linguistic Society 6 Montréal WPL: 123–135.
Hauser, Marc D., Chomsky, Noam, & Fitch, W. Tecumseh. 2002. The Faculty of Language: What
is it, who has it, and how did it evolve? Science 298(5598): 1569–1579.
Heck, Fabian. 2008. On Pied-piping: Wh-movement and beyond. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Heck, Fabian. 2009. On certain properties of pied-piping. Linguistic Inquiry 40: 75–111.
Heim, Irene & Kratzer, Angelika. 1998. Semantics in Generative Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Heycock, Caroline. 1995. Asymmetries in reconstruction. Linguistic Inquiry 26: 547–570.
Higginbotham, James. 1985. On semantics. Linguistic Inquiry 16: 547–594.
Hinzen, Wolfram. 2006. Mind Design and Minimal Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hinzen, Wolfram. 2007. An Essay on Names and Truth. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hiraiwa, Ken. 2005. Dimensions of symmetry in syntax: Agreement and clausal architecture.
PhD dissertation, MIT.
Hiraiwa, Ken & Ishihara, Shinichiro. 2002. Missing links: Cleft, sluicing and ‘no da’ construc-
tion in Japanese. In Proceedings of HUMIT 2001. MITWPL #43, 35–54. Cambridge, MA:
MITWPL.
Hiraiwa, Ken & Ishihara, Shinichiro. 2012. Syntactic metamorphosis: Clefts, sluicing, and in-situ
focus in Japanese. Syntax 15(2): 142–180.
Hoekstra, Eric. 1991. Licensing conditions on phrase structure. PhD dissertation, University
of Groningen.
Hoekstra, Jarich & Marácz, Laszlo. 1989. On the position of inflection in West-Germanic. Work-
ing Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 44: 75–88.
Hoekstra, Teun & Mulder, René. 1990. Unergatives as copular verbs: Locational and existential
predication. The Linguistic Review 7: 1–79.
Hoji, Hajime. 1990. Theories of anaphora and aspects of Japanese syntax. ms. University of
Southern California.
Hoji, Hajime. 2003. Falsifiability and repeatability in generative grammar: A case study of
anaphora and scope dependency in Japanese. Lingua 113: 377–446.
	References	
249
Holmberg, Anders. 2000. Deriving OV order in Finnish. In The Derivation of VO and OV, Peter
Svenonius (ed), 123–152. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Holmberg, Anders & Hróarsdóttir, Throbjörg. 2003. Agreement and movement in Icelandic
raising constructions. Lingua 113: 997–1019.
Holmberg, Anders & Hróarsdóttir, Throbjörg. 2004. Agreement and movement in Icelandic
raising constructions. Lingua 114: 651–673.
Hornstein, Norbert. 2009. A Theory of Syntax: Minimal Operations and Universal Grammar.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hornstein, Norbert & Pietroski, Paul M. 2009. Basic operations: Minimal syntax-semantics.
Catalan Journal of Linguistics 8: 113–139.
Hornstein, Norbert & Uriagereka, Juan. 1999. Labels and projections: a note on the syntax of
quantifiers. University of Maryland Working Papers in Linguistics 8: 249–270.
Hornstein, Norbert & Uriagereka, Juan. 2002. Reprojections. In Derivation and Explanation in
the Minimalist Program, Samuel David Epstein & T. Daniel Seely (eds), 106–132. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Huang, C.-T. James. 1982. Logical relations in Chinese and the theory of grammar. PhD disserta-
tion, MIT. Edited and published by Garland Publishing, New York (1998).
Iatridou, Sabine. 1993. On nominative case assignment and a few related things. MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 19: 175–196.
Irurtzun, Aritz. 2006. Focus and clause structuration in the minimalist program. In Minimalist
Essays, Cedric Boeckx (ed), 68–96. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Irurtzun, Aritz. 2007. The grammar of focus at the interfaces. PhD dissertation, University of
the Basque Country.
Ishii, Toru. 1997. An asymmetry in the composition of phrase structure and its consequences.
PhD dissertation, University of California, Irvine.
Jackendoff, Ray. 1977. X′-syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jayaseelan, Karattuparambil. 2008. Bare phrase structure and specifier-less syntax. Biolinguistics
2: 87–106.
Kato, Takaomi. 2004. Not so overt movement. In Proceedings of WCCFL 23, 436–449.
Kato, Takaomi. 2006. Symmetries in coordination. PhD dissertation, Harvard University.
Kato, Takaomi. 2007. On the nature of the left branch condition: Syntactic or phonological? In
Proceedings of the 9th Seoul International Conference on Generative Grammar.
Kato, Takaomi, Kuno, Masakazu, Narita, Hiroki, Zushi, Mihoko, & Fukui, Naoki. 2014. Gen-
eralized search and cyclic derivation by phase: A preliminary study. Sophia Linguistica 61:
203–222.
Kawasaki, Noriko. 1989. Jibun-tachi and non-coreferential anaphora. In Papers in Quantifica-
tion, NFS Grant BNS 8719999, Principal investigators: Emmon Bach, Angelika Kratzer and
Barbara Partee, Department of Linguistics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Kayne, Richard S. 1981a. ECP extensions. Linguistic Inquiry 12: 93–133.
Kayne, Richard S. 1981b. Unambiguous paths. In Levels of Syntactic Representation, R. May & J.
Koster (eds), 143–183. Reidel.
Kayne, Richard S. 1983. Connectedness. Linguistic Inquiry 14: 223–249.
Kayne, Richard S. 1984. Connectedness and Binary Branching. Dordrecht: Foris.
Kayne, Richard S. 1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 2004a. Antisymmetry and Japanese. In Variation and Universals in Biolinguis-
tics, L. Jenkins (ed), 3–35. Elsevier B. V.
250	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Kayne, Richard S. 2004b. Prepositions as probes. In Structures and Beyond: The Cartography of
Syntactic Structures, Adriana Belletti (ed), 192–212. Reprinted in Richard S. Kayne, Move-
ment and silence, 2005, pp. 85–105. New York: Oxford University Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 2009. Antisymmetry and the lexicon. Linguistic Variation Yearbook 8(1): 1–31.
Reprinted in Di Sciullo and Boeckx (2011).
Kayne, Richard S. 2011. Why are there no directionality parameters? In Proceedings of WCCFL
28, Mary Byram Washburn, Katherine McKinney-Bock, Erika Varis, Ann Sawyer, & ­Barbara
Tomaszewicz (eds), Somerville, MA., 1–23. Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Kishimoto, Hideki. 2005. Wh-in-situ and movement in Sinhala questions. Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 23: 1–51.
É. Kiss, Katalin. 1987. Configurationality in Hungarian. Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Kitahara, Hisatsugu. 1997. Elementary Operations and Optimal Derivations. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Koopman, Hilda & Sportiche, Dominique. 1983. Variables and the bijection principle. The Lin-
guistic Review 2: 139–160.
Kratzer, Angelika. 1996. Severing the external argument from its verb. In Phrase Structure and
the Lexicon, Johan Rooryck & Laurie Zaring (eds), 109–137. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kratzer, Angelika. 2000. The event argument and the semantics of verbs. ms. University of Mas-
sachusetts, Amherst.
Kuno, Masakazu. 2003. Scrambling in Japanese as pure Merge. Linguistic Research: Working
Papers in English Linguistics (Tokyo University English Linguistics Association): 45–78.
Kuno, Susumu. 1973. The Structure of the Japanese Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kuno, Susumu. 1978. Danwa-no Bunpo [The Grammar of Discourse]. Tokyo: Taishukan Shoten.
Kurafuji, Takeo. 1999. Japanese pronouns in dynamic semantics: The null/overt contrast. PhD
dissertation, Rutgers University.
Kural, Murat. 1993. V-to (I-to) -C in Turkish. In UCLA Occasional Papers in Linguistics 11,
Filippo Beghelli & Murat Kural (eds), 17–54.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1965. Generative grammatical studies in the Japanese language. PhD dissertation,
MIT.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1971. Remarks on the notion of subject. Journal of Japanese Linguistics 11: 98–156.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1972. Categorical and thetic judgments: Evidence from Japanese syntax. Founda-
tions of Language 9: 1–37.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1976. Subject. In Japanese Generative Grammar, Masayoshi Shibatani (ed), 1–16.
New York: Academic Press.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1988. Whether we agree or not: A comparative syntax of English and Japanese.
In Papers from the Second International Workshop on Japanese Syntax, W. J. Poser (ed),
103–143. Stanford, Calif.: CSLI Publications. Reprinted in S.-Y. Kuroda (1992).
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1992. Japanese Syntax and Semantics: Collected Papers. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1999. Bunpo riron to tetsugakuteki shizenshugi [Grammatical theory and phil-
osophical naturalism]. In Gengo to Shiko [Language and Thought], Noam Chomsky &
­
Masayuki Oishi (eds), 95–134. Tokyo: Shohakusha.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 2005. Focusing on the matter of topic: A study of wa and ga in Japanese. Journal
of East Asian Linguistics 14: 1–58.
Lamontagne, Greg & Travis, Lisa deMena. 1986. The Case Filter and the ECP. McGill Working
Papers in Linguistics 3: 51–75.
Lasnik, Howard. 1990. Essays on Restrictiveness and Learnability. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
	References	
251
Lasnik, Howard. 1999. Chains of arguments. In Working Minimalism, Samuel David Epstein &
Norbert Hornstein (eds), 189–215. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lasnik, Howard. 2003. Minimalist Investigations in Linguistic Theory. London: Routledge.
Lasnik, Howard, Depiante, Marcela, & Stepanov, Arthur. 2000. Syntactic Structures Revisited:
Contemporary Lectures on Classic Transformational Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lasnik, Howard & Park, Myung-Kwan. 2003. The EPP and the Subject Condition under Sluicing.
Linguistic Inquiry 34: 649–660.
Lasnik, Howard & Saito, Mamoru. 1991. On the subject of infinitives. In Papers from the 27th
Regional Meeting of Chicago Linguistic Society 1991. Part 1: The General Session, Lise M.
­Dobrin, Lynn Nichols, & Rosa M. Rodriguez (eds), 324–343. Chicago, IL: Chicago Linguis-
tics Society. Reprinted in H. Lasnik (1999), Minimalist Analysis, Blackwell.
Lasnik, Howard & Saito, Mamoru. 1992. Move α: Conditions on its Applications and Outputs.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lasnik, Howard, Uriagereka, Juan, & Boeckx, Cedric. 2005. A Course in Minimalist Syntax:
Foundations and Prospects. Oxford: Blackwell.
Lohndal, Terje. 2012. Without specifiers: Phrase structure and events. PhD dissertation, Uni-
versity of Maryland, College Park.
Longobardi, Giuseppe. 2003. Methods in parametric linguistics and cognitive history. Linguistic
Variation Yearbook 3: 101–138.
Lyons, John. 1968. Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Marantz, Alec. 1984. On the Nature of Grammatical Relations. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Marantz, Alec. 1996. ‘Cat’ as a phrasal idiom: Consequences of late insertion in Distributed
Morphology. ms., MIT.
Marantz, Alec. 1997. No escape from syntax: Don’t try morphological analysis in the privacy of
your own lexicon. In Proceedings of the 21st Annual Penn Linguistics Colloquium, 201–225.
University of Pennsylvania Working Papersin Linguistics, Vol. 4.2.
Marantz, Alec. 2007. Phases and words. In Phases in the Theory of Grammar, S.-H. Choe (ed),
191–222. Seoul: Dong In.
Martin, Roger. 2001. Null Case and the distribution of PRO. Linguistic Inquiry 32: 141–166.
Marušič, Franc. 2009. If non-simultaneous spell-out exists, this is what it can explain. In Merging
Features: Computation, Interpretation and Acquisition, Josep M. Brucart, Anna Gavarró, &
Jaume Solà (eds), 175–193. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Matushansky, Ora. 2006. Head movement in linguistic theory. Linguistic Inquiry 37: 69–109.
May, Robert. 1985. Logical Form: Its Structure and Derivation. Cambridge, MA: MIT.
McCawley, James. 1968. Concerning the base component of a transformational grammar. Foun-
dations of Language 4: 243–269.
McGilvray, James. 1998. Meanings are syntactically individuated and found in the head. Mind
and Language 13: 225–280.
McGilvray, James. 2002. MOPs: The science of concepts. In Belief and Meaning: Essays at the
Interface, Wolfram Hinzen & Hans Rott (eds), 73–103. Frankfurt: Ontos.
McGilvray, James. 2009. Introduction to the third edition. Noam Chomsky (2009) Cartesian
Linguistics: A Chapter in the History of Rationalist Thought, Third Edition. Cambridge:
­
Cambridge University Press, 1–52.
McGinn, Colin. 1991. The Problem of Consciousness. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
McGinn, Colin. 1993. Problems in Philosophy. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
252	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 1997. Against optional scrambling. Linguistic Inquiry 28: 1–25.
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2003. A-movement scrambling and options without optionality. In Word
Order and Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed). Oxford: Blackwell.
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 2010. Why Agree? Why Move?: Unifying Agreement-based and Discourse
Configurational Languages. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Mori, Nobue. 2005. A syntactic structure of lexical verbs. PhD dissertation, University of Mary-
land, College Park.
Moro, Andrea. 1997a. Dynamic antisymmetry: Movement as a symmetry-breaking phenom-
enon. Studia Linguistica 51: 50–76.
Moro, Andrea. 1997b. The Raising of Predicates. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Moro, Andrea. 2000. Dynamic Antisymmetry. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Moro, Andrea. 2007. Some notes on unstable structures. ms. Universita San Raffaele, Milano.
Motomura, Mitsue. 2003. The thematic roles of sentential to/ko complements in Japanese/
Korean­. In Japanese Korean Linguistics 11, Patricia M. Clency (ed), 439–454. CSLI/Stanford­
University.
Narita, Hiroki. 2007a. Project Both in Japanese, with a case study of head-internal relative
clauses. In Proceedings of the 8th Tokyo Conference on Psycholinguistics, Yukio Otsu (ed),
213–237. Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Narita, Hiroki. 2007b. A “Project Both” perspective on covert movement in Japanese head-
internal relative clauses. Master’s thesis, Sophia University.
Narita, Hiroki. 2008. Two ways of pronouncing “unpronounceable” QR. In Proceedings of
TCP2008, Yukio Otsu (ed), 151–175. Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Narita, Hiroki. 2009a. Full interpretation of optimal labeling. Biolinguistics 3(2–3): 213–254.
Narita, Hiroki. 2009b. How syntax naturalizes semantics: A review of Uriagereka (2008). Lingua
119(11): 1767–1775.
Narita, Hiroki. 2009c, 4). Multiple Transfer in service of recursive Merge. Paper presented at The
32nd GLOW Colloquium at Nantes University, April 15th–18th, 2009. Abstract published
in GLOW Newsletter #62, 89–91.
Narita, Hiroki. 2009d. The naturalist program for neo-Cartesian biolinguistics. In Proceedings
of Sophia University Linguistic Society 24, Takahito Shinya & Ako Imaoka (eds), 55–91.
Narita, Hiroki. 2010. The tension between explanatory and biological adequacy: Review of Fukui
(2006). Lingua 120(5): 1313–1323.
Narita, Hiroki. 2011. Phasing in Full Interpretation. PhD dissertation, Harvard University.
<http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/001304>.
Narita, Hiroki. 2012a. Head-detection, phases, and the complementarity of XP- v.s. X0-move-
ment. In Online Proceedings of GLOW in Asia Workshop for Young Scholars 2011, Koichi
Otaki, Hajime Takeyasu, & Shin-ichi Tanigawa (eds), 232–246. <http://faculty.human.mieu.
ac.jp/ glow mie/Workshop Proceedings/18Narita.pdf>.
Narita, Hiroki. 2012b. Phase cycles in service of projection-free syntax. In Phases: Developing
the Framework, Ángel J. Gallego (ed), 125–172. Mouton de Gruyter.
Narita, Hiroki. 2012c. Remarks on the nature of headedness and compositionality in bare phrase
structure. In Proceedings of Sophia University Linguistic Society 26, Haruka Toyoda (ed),
81–126.
Narita, Hiroki. 2012d. *{XP, YP}, the independence of the LCA and antisymmetry, and the
LCA-free phase-based account of the CED effect. ms. Waseda Institute for Advanced Study.
To appear in Balazs Suranyi, ed., Minimalist Approaches to Syntactic Locality, Cambridge
University Press.
	References	
253
Narita, Hiroki. forthcoming. *{t, t}. To appear in WCCFL 32 Proceedings.
Narita, Hiroki & Fujita, Koji. 2010. A naturalist reconstruction of minimalist and evolutionary
biolinguistics. Biolinguistics 4(4): 356–376.
Narita, Hiroki & Fukui, Naoki. 2012. Merge and (a)symmetry. ms. Waseda Institute for Ad-
vanced Study and Sophia University. Paper presented by the second author at the Kyoto
Conference on Biolinguistics, Kyoto University, March 12, 2012.
Narita, Hiroki, Kato, Takaomi, & Zushi, Mihoko. 2013. Review of Di Sciullo and Boeckx (2011).
English Linguistics 30: 780–791.
Neeleman, Ad & Weerman, Fred. 1999. Flexible Syntax: A Theory of Case and Arguments.
­Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Newmeyer, Frederick J. 2005. Possible and Probable Languages: A Generative Perspective on Lin-
guistic Typology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Newmeyer, Frederick J. 2006. Newmeyer’s rejoinder to Roberts and Holmberg on parameters.
ms. University of Washington. lingBuzz/000248.
Newmeyer, Frederick J. 2010. Three approaches to exceptionality in syntactic typology. In Ex-
pecting the Unexpected: Exceptions in Grammar, Horst Simon & Heike Wiese (eds). Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Nishigauchi, Taisuke. 1990a. Quantification in syntax. PhD dissertation, University of Mas-
sachusetts, Amherst.
Nishigauchi, Taisuke. 1990b. Quantification in the Theory of Grammar. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Nishigauchi, Taisuke. 1991. Construing wh. In Logical Structure and Linguistic Structure: Cross-
linguistic Perspectives, C.-T. James Huang & Robert May (eds), 197–231. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Nissenbaum, Jon. 2000. Investigations of covert phrase movement. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Nunes, Jairo. 2004. Linearization of Chains and Sideward Movement. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Nunes, Jairo & Uriagereka, Juan. 2000. Cyclicity and extraction domains. Syntax 3: 20–43.
Obata, Miki. 2010. Root, successive-cyclic and feature-splitting Internal Merge: Implications for
feature-inheritance and Transfer. PhD dissertation, University of Michigan.
Ott, Dennis. 2009. The conceptual necessity of phases: Some remarks on the minimalist enter-
prise. In Explorations of phase theory: Interpretation at the interfaces, K. K. Grohmann (ed).
Mouton de Gruyter.
Ott, Dennis. 2010. Grammaticality, interfaces, and UG. In Exploring Crash-proof Grammars,
Michael Putnam (ed), 89–104. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ott, Dennis. 2011a. Local instability. PhD dissertation, Harvard University. Published online at
<http://irs.ub.rug.nl/dbi/4e8027471fa04>, GAGL (Groninger Arbeiten zur germanistischen
Linguistik).
Ott, Dennis. 2011b. A note on free relative clauses in the theory of phases. Linguistic Inquiry
42: 183–192.
Ott, Dennis. 2012. Local Instability: Split Topicalization and Quantifier Float in German. Berlin/
New York: Walter De Gruyter.
Ott, Dennis in press. Symmetric merge and local instability: Evidence from split topics. Syntax.
Pesetsky, David. 1982. Paths and categories. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Pesetsky, David & Torrego, Esther. 2001. T-to-C movement: Causes and consequences. In Ken
Hale: A Life in Language, Michael Kenstowicz (ed), 355–426. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Pesetsky, David & Torrego, Esther. 2004. Tense, case, and the nature of syntactic categories. In
The Syntax of Time, Jacqueline Guéron & Alexander Lecarme (eds), 495–537. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
254	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Pesetsky, David & Torrego, Esther. 2006. Probes, goals, and the nature of syntactic categories.
In Proceedings of the 7th Tokyo Conference on Psycholinguistics, Yukio Otsu (ed), 25–60.
Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Pesetsky, David & Torrego, Esther. 2007. The syntax of valuation and the interpretability of
features. In Phrasal and Clausal Architecture: Syntactic Derivation and Interpretation. In
Honor of Joseph E. Emonds, Simin Karimi, Vida Samiian, & Wendy Wilkins (eds), 262–294.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Peters, Stanley P. & Ritchie, Robert W. 1973. On the generative power of transformational gram-
mars. Science 6: 49–83.
Petitto, Laura-Ann. 2005. How the brain begets language. In The Cambridge Companion to
Chomsky, James McGilvray (ed), 84–101. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Piattelli-Palmarini, Massimo, Uriagereka, Juan, & Salaburu, Pello (eds). 2009. Of Minds and
Language: A Dialogue with Noam Chomsky in the Basque Country. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Pietroski, Paul M. 2000. On explaining that. Journal of Philosophy 97: 655–662.
Pietroski, Paul M. 2005. Events and Semantic Architecture. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pietroski, Paul M. 2008. Minimalist meaning, internalist interpretation. Biolinguistics 2(4):
317–341.
Poeppel, David, Idsardi, William J., & van Wassenhove, Virginie. 2008. Speech perception at the
interface of neurobiology and linguistics. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B
363: P1071–1086.
Pollock, Jean-Yves. 1989. Verb movement, universal grammar and the structure of IP. Linguistic
Inquiry 20: 365–424.
Postal, Paul M. 1974. On Raising: One Rule of English Grammar and its Theoretical Implications.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ramchand, Gillan & Svenonius, Peter. 2009. Mapping a parochial lexicon onto a universal se-
mantics. In The Limits of Syntactic Variation, Theresa Biberauer (ed), 219–244. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Raposo, Eduardo & Uriagereka, Juan. 1995. Two types of small clauses: Toward a syntax of
theme/rheme relations. In Small Clauses, Anna Cardinaletti & Maria Teresa Guasti (eds),
179–206. New York: Academic Press. Reprinted in Uriagereka (2002).
Raposo, Eduardo & Uriagereka, Juan. 1996. Indefinite SE. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 14: 749–810.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1976. Syntacic domain of anaphora. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1981. Definite NP anaphora and c-command domains. Linguistic Inquiry 12:
605–635.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1983. Anaphora and Semantic Interpretation. London: Croom Helm.
Richards, Marc D. 2004. Object shift, scrambling, and symmetrical syntax. PhD dissertation,
University of Cambridge.
Richards, Marc D. 2007a. Dynamic linearization and the shape of phases. Linguistic Analysis
33: 209–237.
Richards, Marc D. 2007b. On feature inheritance: An argument from the phase impenetrability
condition. Linguistic Inquiry 38: 563–572.
Richards, Norvin. 1997. What moves where when in which language? PhD dissertation, MIT.
Richards, Norvin. 1999. Featural cyclicity and the ordering of multiple specifiers. In Working
Minimalism, Samuel David Epstein & Nobert Hornstein (eds), 127–158. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
	References	
255
Richards, Norvin. 2001. Movement in Language: Interactions and Architectures. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
van Riemsdijk, Henk. 1978. A Case Study in Syntactic Markedness: The Binding Nature of Prepo-
sitional Phrases. Dordrecht: Foris.
van Riemsdijk, Henk & Williams, Edwin. 1986. Introduction to the Theory of Grammar.
­
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1978. Violations of the wh-island constraint in Italian and the subjacency condition.
In Montreal Working Papers in Linguistics 11, 155–190. Reprinted in Rizzi (1982), 49–76.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1982. Issues in Italian Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Elements of Grammar: Handbook
of Generative Syntax, Liliane Haegeman (ed), 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2004. The Structure of CP and IP: The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, Vol. 2.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2006. On the form of chains: Criterial positions and ECP effects. In Wh-movement:
Moving on, Lisa Lai-Shen Cheng & Norbert Corver (eds), 97–133. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Roberts, Ian. 2010. Agreement and Head Movement: Clitics, Incorporation, and Defective Goals.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rosenbaum, Peter S. 1970. A principle governing deletion in English sentential complementa-
tion. In Readings in English Transformational Grammar, Roderick A. Jacobs & Peter S.
Rosenbaum (eds), 220–9. Waltham, MA: Ginn.
Ross, J. R. 1967. Constraints on variables in syntax. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Ross, John Robert. 1974. Three batons for cognitive psychology. In Cognition and the Symbolic
Processes, Walter B. Weimer & David Palermo (eds). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Ross, John Robert. 1986. Infinite Syntax! (Language and Being). New Jersey: Ablex Publishing
Incorporation.
Saito, Mamoru. 1985. Some asymmetries in Japanese and their theoretical implications. PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Saito, Mamoru. 1989. Scrambling as semantically vacuous A′-movement. In Alternative Con-
ceptions of Phrase Structure, Mark R. Baltin & Anthony S. Kroch (eds), 182–200. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Saito, Mamoru. 1992. Long distance scrambling in Japanese. Journal of East Asian Linguistics
1: 69–118.
Saito, Mamoru. 2003. A derivational approach to the interpretation of scrambling chains. Lingua
113: 481–558.
Saito, Mamoru. 2005. On Miyagawa’s analysis of A-scrambling. Paper presented at Keio Univer-
sity Linguistics Colloquium, November 25th, 2005.
Saito, Mamoru & Fukui, Naoki. 1998. Order in phrase structure and movement. Linguistic In-
quiry 29: 439–474. Reprinted in Fukui (2006).
Sakai, Hiromu. 2000. Predicate ellipsis and nominalization. In Proceedings of the 2000 Seoul
International Conference on Language and Computation, 85–113. Seoul, Korea: The Lin-
guistic Society of Korea.
Samuels, Bridget & Narita, Hiroki. 2013. Phasing out projection: Considerations from the syn-
tax-phonology interface. Linguistic Analysis 38(3–4): 357–391.
Sauerland, Uli. 1998. The meaning of chains. PhD dissertation, MIT.
256	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Sciullo, Anna Maria Di & Boeckx, Cedric (eds). 2011. The Biolinguistic Enterprise: New Perspec-
tives on the Evolution and Nature of the Human Language Faculty. Oxford and New York:
Oxford University Press.
Seely, T. Daniel. 2006. Merge, derivational c-command, and subcategorization in a label-free
syntax. In Minimalist Essays, Cedric Boeckx (ed), 182–217. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Selkirk, Elisabeth O. 1995. Sentence prosody: Intonation, stress, and phrasing. In The Handbook
of Phonological Theory, John A. Goldsmith (ed), 550–569. London: Blackwell.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2009. The final-over-final constraint as an effect of complement stranding.
Newcastle Working Papers in Linguistics 15: 104–125.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2010. Labelling, multiple spell-out and the final-over-final constraint. In
Incontro di Grammatica Generativa XXXV 2010, Vincenzo Moscati & Emilio Servidio (eds),
Siena.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2013a. Some implications of a copy theory of labeling. Syntax 16(4): 362–396.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2013b. The resuscitation of CED. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting
of the North East Linguistic Society (NELS 40), Seda Kan, Claire Moore-Cantwell & Robert
Staubs (eds), 135–150. Amherst, MA: GLSA.
Simon, Mutsuko Endo. 1989. An analysis of the postposing construction in Japanese. PhD dis-
sertation, University of Michigan.
Sorida, Masanobu. 2011. Cyclic Transfer, chains, and the A/A′ problem of Japanese scrambling.
Paper presented at the Chains in Minimalism conference, Yokohama National University,
February 12–13, 2011.
Sorida, Masanobu. 2012. Unweaving chains. PhD dissertation, Sophia University, Tokyo.
Sportiche, Dominique. 1988. A theory of floating quantifiers and its corollaries for constituent
structure. Linguistic Inquiry 19: 425–449.
Starke, Michal. 2004. On the inexistence of specifiers and the nature of heads. In Structures and
Beyond: The Cartography of Syntactic Structures, Adriana Belletti (ed), 252–268. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Stepanov, Arthur. 2007. The end of CED? minimalism and extraction domains. Syntax 10(1):
80–126.
Stowell, Tim. 1981. Origins of phrase structure. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Suñer, Margarita. 1994. V-movement and the licensing of argumental Wh-phrases in Spanish.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 12(2): 335–372.
Svenonius, Peter. 1994. C-selection as feature-checking. Studia Linguistica 58: 133–155.
Svenonius, Peter. 2003. Limits on P: Filling in holes vs. falling in holes. Nordlyd. Proceedings of
the 19th Scandinavian Conference of Linguistics 31: 431–445.
Svenonius, Peter. 2004. On the edge. In Peripheries: Syntactic Edges and their Effects, David Adger,
Cécile de Cat, & George Tsulas (eds), 261–287. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Svenonius, Peter. 2010. Spatial P in English. In Mapping Spatial PPs: The Cartography of Syntac-
tic Structures, Vol. 6, Guglielmo Cinque & Luigi Rizzi (eds), 127–161. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Takahashi, Daiko. 1994. Minimality of movement. PhD dissertation, University of Connecticut,
Storrs.
Takahashi, Shoichi. 2010. The hidden side of clausal complements. Natural Language and Lin-
guistic Theory 28: 343–380.
Takano, Yuji. 1995. Predicate fronting and internal subjects. Linguistic Inquiry 26: 327–340.
Takano, Yuji. 1996. Movement and parametric variation in syntax. PhD dissertation, University
of California, Irvine.
	References	
257
Takano, Yuji. 2000. Illicit remnant movement. Linguistic Inquiry 31: 141–156.
Tanaka, Hidekazu. 2001. Right-dislocation as scrambling. Journal of Linguistics 37: 551–579.
Tenny, Carol Lee. 1987. Grammaticalizing aspect and affectedness. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Tenny, Carol Lee. 1994. Aspectual Roles and the Syntax-Semantics Interface. Boston: Kluwer.
Thráinsson, Höskuldur. 1996. On the (non-)universality of functional categories. In Minimal
Ideas: Syntactic Studies in the Minimalist Framework, Werner Abraham, Samuel David
Epstein, Höskuldur Thráinsson, & JanWouter Zwart (eds), 253–281. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Toyoshima, Takashi. 1997. Derivational CED: A consequence of the bottom-up parallel-process
of Merge and Attract. In WCCFL 17 Proceedings, 505–519.
Truswell, Robert. 2007a. Extraction from adjuncts and the structure of events. Lingua 117:
1355–1377.
Truswell, Robert. 2007b. Locality of wh-movement and the individuation of events. PhD dis-
sertation, University College London.
Truswell, Robert. 2008. Preposition stranding, passvisation, and extraction from adjuncts in
Germanic. ms. Tufts University.
Truswell, Robert. 2011. Events, Phrases, and Questions. Oxford University Press.
Ueyama, Ayumi. 1998. Two types of dependency. PhD dissertation, University of South
California.
Uriagereka, Juan. 1988. On government. PhD dissertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
Uriagereka, Juan. 1997. Formal and substantive elegance in the minimalist program (on the
emergence of some linguistic forms). In The Role of Economy Principles in Linguistic Theory,
C. Wilder, H.-M. Gartner, & M. Bierwisch (eds), 170–204. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Uriagereka, Juan. 1999. Multiple Spell-Out. In Working Minimalism, Samuel David Epstein &
Norbert Hornstein (eds), 251–282. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Uriagereka, Juan. 2002. Derivations: Exploring the Dynamics of Syntax. London: Routledge.
Uriagereka, Juan. 2008. Syntactic Anchors: On Semantic Structuring. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Uriagereka, Juan. 2012. Spell-Out and the Minimalist Program. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Watanabe, Akira. 1992a. Subjacency and S-structure movement of wh-in-situ. Journal of East
Asian Linguistics 1: 255–291.
Watanabe, Akira. 1992b. Wh-in-situ, Subjacency, and Chain Formation, Volume 2 of MIT
­
Occasional Papers in Linguistics. MITWPL.
Watanabe, Akira. 1996. Case Absorption and Wh-Agreement. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Watanabe, Akira. 2000. Feature copying and binding. Syntax 3: 159–181.
Watanabe, Akira. 2006. Functional projections of nominals in Japanese: Syntax of classifiers.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 24: 241–306.
Watanabe, Akira. 2008. The structure of DP. In The Oxford Handbook of Japanese Linguistics,
Shigeru Miyagawa & Mamoru Saito (eds). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Webelhuth, Gert. 1992. Principles and Parameters of Syntactic Saturation. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Wexler, Kenneth & Culicover, Peter W. 1980. Formal Principles of Language Acquisition.
­
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Williams, Edwin. 1981. Argument structure and morphology. The Linguistic Review 1: 81–114.
Wujastyk, Dominik. 1982. Bloomfield and the Sanskrit origin of the terms ‘exocentric’ and
‘endocentric’. Historiographia Linguistica 9(1/2): 179–184.
258	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Yang, Charles D. 2002. Knowledge and Learning in Natural Language. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Yang, Charles D. 2004. Universal grammar, statistics or both? Trends in Cognitive Sciences 8(10):
451–456.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 1993. Dutch syntax: a minimalist approach. PhD dissertation, University
of Groningen.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2011. Structure and order: asymmetric merge. In The Oxford Handbook
of Linguistic Minimalism, Cedric Boeckx (ed), 96–118. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Author index
A
Abels, Klaus  39, 90, 97, 131, 156,
162, 163, 172, 178
Abney, Steven Paul  13, 85, 86,
145, 194
Ackema, Peter  156, 162, 163, 172
Agbayani, Brian  121
Alexiadou, Artemis  212
Alrenga, Peter  101
Anagnostopoulou, Elena  212
Asbury, Anna  41, 79, 85
B
Baker, Mark C.  57, 59
Bar-Shalom, Eva  118
Barwise, Jon  93
Belletti, Adriana  110, 152
Berwick, Robert C.  16, 169, 216
Bever, Thomas G.  141
Biberauer, Theresa  161, 168
Bittner, Maria  41, 79, 85
Bloomfield, Leonard  68, 129
Bobaljik, Jonathan David  55, 56,
57, 115, 178
Boeckx, Cedric  8, 37, 55, 86,
107, 108, 123, 133, 134, 135, 154,
161, 173, 177, 194, 198, 215
Borgonovo, Claudia  124
Borer, Hagit  194
Bošković, Željko  39, 86, 89,
108, 178
Brame, Michael  13, 85, 194
Bresnan, John W.  22, 204
Brody, Michael  59, 177
Brown, S.  55, 56, 57, 115
C
Cable, Seth  40, 72, 86, 87, 88,
91, 94, 102, 124, 202, 203, 239
Caha, Pavel  41, 79, 85
Carnie, Andrew  11
Carstens, Vicki  31, 45
Cattell, Ray  122, 123, 154
Cecchetto, Carlo  55, 161, 178,
214
Ceplová, Markéta  133
Chametzky, Robert A.  151
Chierchia, Gennaro  86
Chomsky, Noam  xi, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
28, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38,
39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47,
48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 66,
67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74,
75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 82, 84, 85, 87,
91, 94, 96, 97, 99, 103, 104, 107,
108, 112, 113, 115, 116, 122, 123,
125, 126, 129, 133, 134, 135, 138,
142, 143, 144, 145, 154, 157, 158,
161, 162, 163, 165, 166, 167, 168,
169, 171, 174, 175, 177, 179, 184,
187, 191, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197,
198, 200, 201, 204, 206, 207,
208, 209, 212, 213, 214, 215,
216, 217, 218, 220, 221, 222,
223, 224, 225, 229, 230
Cinque, Guglielmo  39, 137, 171,
172, 173, 195, 240
Collins, Chris  66, 70, 161
Cooper, Robin  93
Corver, Norbert  151
Crain, Stephen  16
Culicover, Peter W.  107, 151
D
den Besten, Hans  90
den Dikken, Marcel  108
Depiante, Marcela  11, 19
Descartes, Rene  229, 230
Donati, Caterina  55, 102, 214
E
Embick, David  42
Emonds, Joseph  13, 21, 122
Endo, Yoshio  156
Epstein, Samuel David  19, 27,
33, 40, 46, 68, 72, 80, 95, 142,
143, 171, 175
F
Fiengo, Robert  52
Fitch, W. Tecumseh  38
Fodor, Jerry A.  231
Fox, Danny  25, 94, 142, 175, 184
Frampton, John  31
Frege, Gottlob  231
Freidin, Robert  24
Fujita, Koji  8, 156, 162, 163, 172
Fukui, Naoki  11, 13, 14, 15, 19,
27, 31, 33, 35, 40, 41, 42, 43, 47,
55, 56, 71, 72, 79, 80, 85, 86,
94, 97, 109, 116, 120, 121, 134,
136, 137, 142, 156, 163, 164, 165,
166, 171, 172, 173, 175, 179, 181,
194, 198, 203, 211, 221, 222,
224, 240
G
Galilei, Galileo  229
Gallego, Ángel J.  39, 105, 106,
107, 110, 152, 160
Gambell, Timothy  136
Georgopoulos, Carol Perkins
118
Golston, Chris  121
Goto, Nobu  35, 184
Graffi, Giorgio  68
Grimshaw, Jane B.  71, 101,
194, 195
Groat, Erich  19, 27, 72, 108, 131,
132, 142, 143, 171, 175
260	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Grohmann, Kleanthes K. 
37, 133, 134
Guimarães, Maximiliano 
19, 143, 164, 171, 179, 211
Gutmann, Sam  31
H
Hagstrom, Paul  87
Haider, Hubert  105
Hale, Ken  41, 43, 79, 85, 207
Halle, Morris  42, 57, 75, 141,
206
Hankamer, Jorge  117, 150
Hauser, Marc D.  38
Heck, Fabian  72
Heim, Irene  29
Heycock, Caroline  116
Higginbotham, James  125
Hinzen, Wolfram  38, 39, 43
Hiraiwa, Ken  4, 30, 31, 33, 39,
44, 109, 215
Hoekstra, Eric  200, 201
Hoekstra, Jarich  45
Hoekstra, Teun  108
Hoji, Hajime  109, 121, 180
Holmberg, Anders  161, 166,
168, 214, 215
Hornstein, Norbert  53, 94, 107,
108, 132, 193, 209
Hróarsdóttir, Throbjörg 
214, 215
Huang, C.-T. James  4, 107, 116,
122, 123, 134, 147, 154, 162, 228
I
Iatridou, Sabine  44, 125, 204
Idsardi, William J.  141
Irurtzun, Aritz  72
Ishihara, Shinichiro  109
Ishii, Toru  109, 121
J
Jackendoff, Ray  13, 14, 69, 73
Jayaseelan, Karattuparambil
143, 171, 200, 201, 208
K
Kasai, Hironobu  120, 121
Kato, Takaomi  25, 31, 33, 35, 40,
43, 109, 156, 178
Kawasaki, Noriko  180
Kawashima, Ruriko  19, 72, 142,
143, 171, 175
Kayne, Richard S.  15, 19, 59, 72,
73, 74, 96, 134, 142, 143, 144,
158, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167,
168, 169, 170, 171, 172, 174, 176,
183, 189, 207, 211, 217, 220, 223
Keyser, Samuel J.  43, 207
Kishimoto, Hideki  87
É. Kiss}, Katalin  118
Kitahara, Hisatsugu  33, 40,
46, 48
Knecht, Laura  117, 150
Koopman, Hilda  43
Kratzer, Angelika  29, 207
Kuno, Masakazu  31, 33, 35, 40,
43, 47
Kuno, Susumu  109, 156
Kurafuji, Takeo  180
Kural, Murat  117, 150
Kuroda, S.-Y.  14, 43, 93, 109,
120, 181
L
Lamontagne, Greg  41, 79, 85
Lasnik, Howard  10, 11, 19, 21,
24, 25, 73, 96, 105, 107, 108,
109, 126, 204
Lohndal, Terje  71, 200, 201,
208
Longobardi, Giuseppe  8
Lyons, John  13, 68
M
Marácz, Laszlo  45
Marantz, Alec  42, 43, 50, 57, 75,
80, 206, 207
Martin, Roger  204
Marušič, Franc  25, 26, 94, 178
May, Robert  52, 144
McCawley, James  11
McGilvray, James  10, 74
McGinn, Colin  230
Miyagawa, Shigeru  120, 174
Mori, Nobue  95
Moro, Andrea  15, 72, 108, 143,
164, 166, 171, 179, 211, 220, 222
Motomura, Mitsue  104
Mulder, René  108
N
Nakayama, Mineharu  16
Narita, Hiroki  8, 9, 31, 33, 35,
38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 56, 71, 80,
94, 95, 97, 109, 116, 128, 138,
156, 161, 162, 163, 164, 172, 178,
181, 197, 198, 209, 216, 217, 221,
222, 224
Neeleman, Ad  124, 156, 162,
163, 172, 178
Newmeyer, Frederick J.  173
Newton, Isaac  230
Nishigauchi, Taisuke  71, 86
Nissenbaum, Jon  26, 94, 178
Nunes, Jairo  79, 85, 116, 122, 123,
135, 142, 143, 147, 154, 157, 171
O
Obata, Miki  215
O’Neil, John  27
Ott, Dennis  71, 102, 193, 194,
198, 209, 212, 214, 216, 217, 221
P
Park, Myung-Kwan  107
Pesetsky, David  25, 71, 103, 104,
142, 158, 166, 175, 184, 194, 204
Peters, Stanley P.  21
Petitto, Laura-Ann  9
Pietroski, Paul  16, 74, 94, 104,
169, 216
Poeppel, David  141
Pollock, Jean-Yves  104, 215
Postal, Paul M.  96
R
Ramchand, Gillan  86
Raposo, Eduardo  93, 106
Reinhart, Tanya  15
Richards, Marc  15, 44, 73, 105,
106, 125, 142, 156, 162, 163, 172,
184, 204, 206
Richards, Norvin  45
Ritchie, Robert W.  21
Rizzi, Luigi  39, 74, 96, 100, 134,
171, 173, 195
Roberts, Ian  55, 161, 168
Romero, Juan  50
Rosenbaum, Peter S.  132
Ross, John Robert  109, 134, 151
	 Author index	 261
S
Saito, Mamoru  15, 47, 96, 108,
109, 120, 121, 126, 165, 166, 175
Sakai, Hiromu  109, 136, 137,
181, 203, 240
Samuels, Bridget  126, 128,
176, 177
Sauerland, Uli  93
Seely, T. Daniel  27, 33, 40, 46,
66, 68, 70
Selkirk, Elisabeth O.  71
Sheehan, Michelle  15, 72, 79,
143, 144, 148, 157, 158, 159, 160,
161, 162, 163, 165, 166, 168,
171, 189
Simon, Mutsuko Endo  156
Sorida, Masanobu  27, 215
Speas, Margaret  13, 14, 47, 85,
120, 171, 181, 194
Sportiche, Dominique  43
Starke, Michal  200, 201, 208
Stepanov, Arthur  11, 19, 107,
117, 118, 119, 123, 149, 150,
154, 159
Stevens, Kenneth  141
Stjepanović, Sandra  55, 215
Stowell, Tim  15, 21, 70, 204
Suñer, Margarita  106
Svenonius, Peter  39, 57, 86, 166
T
Takahashi, Daiko  108
Takahashi, Shoichi  101, 116,
239
Takano, Yuji  15, 55, 72, 105, 116,
137, 138, 142, 156, 162, 163, 172,
175, 181
Tanaka, Hidekazu  156
Tenny, Carol Lee  95
Thráinsson, Höskuldur  136, 137,
203, 240
Torrego, Esther  104, 166
Toyoshima, Takashi  135
Travis, Lisa deMena  41, 79, 85
Truswell, Robert  90, 123, 127,
128, 130, 154
U
Ueyama, Ayumi  120, 121
Uriagereka, Juan  8, 10, 15, 25,
36, 38, 39, 50, 55, 71, 72, 73, 77,
79, 84, 93, 94, 95, 106, 107, 110,
116, 122, 135, 141, 142, 143, 144,
145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151,
152, 153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158,
159, 160, 162, 163, 165, 166,
168, 171, 175, 189, 223
V
van Riemsdijk, Henk  11, 39,
90, 134
van Wassenhove, Virginie  141
Vaux, Bert  176
W
Watanabe, Akira  41, 44, 45, 86,
87, 125, 180, 204
Webelhuth, Gert  90
Weerman, Fred  41, 79, 85
Wexler, Kenneth  107, 151
Williams, Edwin  11, 101
Wujastyk, Dominik  68
Y
Yang, Charles D.  136
Yankama, Beracah  16, 169, 216
Z
Zidani-Eroğlu, Leyla  117, 150
Zushi, Mihoko  8, 31, 33, 35, 40,
43, 86
Zwart, Jan-Wouter  45, 166, 217
Subject index
A
Accusative Case  41, 43, 44, 57,
58, 97, 126, 181, 236
Adjective (A)  13, 57, 72, 115
adjunct condition  122–130,
153–157
adjunct(ion)  68, 122–130, 131,
137, 139, 144, 145, 146, 147, 149,
153–157, 159, 168, 171, 180, 222,
238, 239
adverb  60, 104, 122, 124, 125,
126, 153, 155
AGR  174, 222
Agree  4, 5, 30, 31, 32, 33, 36, 40,
41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
51, 53, 54, 61, 62, 85, 86, 87, 89,
90, 94, 102, 104, 105, 130, 163,
193, 199, 206, 208, 209, 213,
215, 216, 218, 219, 220, 222,
225, 228, 234, 236, 237, 238,
239, 240
Inactivity Condition on  32
Multiple 33
agreement  30, 31, 33, 40, 41, 43,
44, 47, 86, 97, 103, 105, 106,
136, 162, 181, 194, 201, 206,
208, 213, 214, 218
feature  43, 44, 204, 214, 217,
218, 219, 220, 225
A-movement  43, 58, 83, 84, 93,
108, 113, 119, 136, 137, 145, 157,
182, 183, 187, 199, 204, 205,
206, 212, 213, 215, 221
A′-movement  82, 86, 94, 96,
109, 120, 136, 157, 187, 199, 215
anti-locality 97
antisymmetry  142, 158, 162,
164, 165, 166, 168, 169, 170,
171, 172, 174, 175, 189, 220,
228, 240
dynamic  211, 220
strong  165, 168, 170, 171, 172,
174, 189, 228, 240
weak  165, 168, 170, 175, 240
argument structure  28, 36, 37,
92, 216
B
binding  15, 52, 132, 163, 216, 238
biological adequacy  8, 47, 48,
66, 172, 173, 174, 233
branching argument  209, 210,
211, 237
C
c-command  15, 17, 54, 124, 125,
143, 144, 145, 155, 157, 158, 159,
161, 162, 163, 164, 168, 175, 188,
190, 193, 238
Cartesian 231
Cartesian linguistics  230
cartography 170–174
cartography (of functional
categories)  8, 28, 100, 180,
195, 202
Case  30, 31, 40, 41, 42, 85, 86,
89, 101, 102, 127
Case-feature [Case]  41, 43, 44,
45, 46, 47, 57, 58, 86, 87, 90, 91,
108, 124, 125, 126, 127, 179, 181,
182, 187, 205
categorial feature  235, 236
categorization  42, 57, 115, 206,
215
categorizer  42, 57, 206
category-segment distinction
144, 162, 168
CHL (Human Language
Computation) 52
cleft  38, 96, 109, 117, 119, 120,
149, 150, 151
clitic 169
complement  41, 43, 57, 72, 79,
81, 82, 87, 88, 89, 91, 93, 96, 97,
101, 103, 104, 106, 119, 122, 131,
132, 137, 138, 142, 148, 150, 153,
155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 166–168,
171, 172, 186, 195, 196, 197, 199,
200, 205, 207, 208, 239, 240
complement island  119, 121,
130, 131, 151, 240
complement-reduction 148,
149, 150, 151, 152
complementizer (C)  12, 14, 22,
24, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 44, 45,
46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 54, 55, 56,
58, 61, 69, 72, 80, 85, 86, 87,
88, 89, 92, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100,
101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 111,
113, 114, 115, 118, 119, 120, 124,
125, 126, 127, 129, 151, 153, 180,
182, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188,
189, 194, 200, 203, 204, 205,
206, 214, 221, 222, 236, 237,
239, 240
complementizer agreement  44
Conceptual-Intentional system
(CI)  9, 10, 18, 28, 29, 30, 33,
37, 38, 39, 41, 44, 54, 65, 67, 72,
73, 74, 75, 76, 80, 92, 95, 112,
113, 142, 174, 175, 194, 216, 218,
219, 220, 229, 231, 234, 237,
238, 239
concord  30, 43
Condition C  125
Condition on Extraction
Domain (CED)  4, 107, 116,
118, 119, 121, 123, 124, 125, 129,
133, 134, 138, 139, 143, 147, 148,
149, 151, 153, 154, 155, 157, 159,
162, 168, 182, 189, 228, 239
consist-of  19, 78, 180, 234
264	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
constitute (is-merged-with) 
19, 35, 36, 78, 79, 180, 181, 234
control  96, 127, 204
convergence  3, 37, 40, 41, 42,
43, 44, 46, 47, 50, 54, 57, 61,
62, 81, 89, 91, 96, 102, 104, 105,
122, 126, 127, 153, 194, 234, 238
copy
deletion of  157, 159, 178, 181,
182, 183, 185, 188, 189
identification of  27, 28, 34,
48, 52, 53, 54, 62, 92, 194,
234, 239
theory of labeling  157, 158,
161
theory of movement  24, 82,
195, 227
D
deletion  3, 20, 21, 22, 26, 36, 37,
66, 77, 102, 159, 212, 227, 234
of copies  157, 159, 178, 181,
182, 183, 185, 188, 189
of features  218, 219
recoverability of  21
demonstrative 180
denotation  10, 231
Descartes’s problem  230
descriptive adequacy  8, 14, 21,
23, 62, 66, 139, 173, 174, 233
determiner (D)  12, 13, 14, 22,
30, 42, 43, 49, 69, 79, 80, 81,
84, 85, 86, 87, 89, 94, 99, 108,
145, 146, 147, 179, 180, 181, 182,
183, 184, 185, 187, 188, 194, 207,
220, 235, 236
directionality parameter 
15, 72, 142, 156, 158, 166, 175,
177, 180, 189
Distributed Morphology 
42, 57, 75, 179, 206, 215
Dutch
South Hollandic  45
E
economy  27, 97, 157, 222
of derivation  27
edge-feature (EF)  91, 133, 191,
196, 197, 198, 217, 228, 240
Elsewhere Condition 
186, 187, 235
Encyclopedia 75
Endocentric Structuring
Constraint (ESC)  4, 5, 76,
77, 79, 80, 82, 83, 84, 85, 88,
91, 92, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100,
101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 111, 118,
119, 120, 121, 122, 124, 125, 126,
127, 128, 129, 130, 132, 133, 134,
135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 141, 143,
147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153,
154, 155, 157, 159, 162, 163, 164,
165, 167, 182, 189, 191, 198, 199,
200, 201, 202, 209, 210, 211,
216, 217, 222, 223, 224, 225,
228, 229, 239, 240
Kayne’s (antisymmetry-
based)  165, 167, 168
Uriagereka’s (LCA-based)
143, 145, 146, 147, 148, 152,
153, 155, 189
endocentricity  4, 5, 18, 68, 69,
70, 71, 72, 73, 75, 76, 77, 80,
81, 82, 83, 84, 94, 104, 114, 128,
129, 134, 138, 141, 147, 167, 175,
191, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197,
199, 200, 201, 204, 208, 209,
210, 211, 212, 213, 214, 217, 219,
220, 223, 224, 225, 227, 228,
237, 239
bifurcated  213, 217, 218, 219,
221, 222, 224
universal  197, 220, 223, 224,
227, 237
English  13, 16, 22, 30, 37, 104,
106, 131, 136, 137, 155, 156, 159,
177, 178, 179, 180, 182, 183,
185, 186, 187, 202, 204, 206,
215, 235
European Portuguese  106
evolutionary adequacy  8
Exceptional Case Marking
(ECM)  30, 96, 97, 108, 126,
127, 139, 204, 236, 239
exocentricity (non-endocentricity)
68, 76, 77, 139, 192, 211, 212,
217, 222, 223, 224, 228, 237
experiencer 131–132
explanatory adequacy  7, 8,
21, 23, 62, 66, 138, 139, 173,
174, 233
expletive  30, 49, 50, 51, 52, 107,
108, 132
Extended Projection Principle
(EPP)  45, 47, 49, 51, 91, 92,
108, 109, 125, 133, 137, 182,
196, 197, 200, 205, 212, 213,
221, 240
feature  49, 91, 133, 196, 197,
240
external argument (EA) 
36, 40, 79, 81, 95, 106, 116, 118,
119, 120, 130, 143, 145, 149, 150,
152, 160, 207, 208, 210, 212,
222, 236
External Merge (EM)
definition of  23, 115, 116, 235
externalism 39
externalization  15, 141, 142,
170, 175, 228, 229
F
feature
categorial  235, 236
deletion of  218, 219
equilibrium  42, 56
interpretable  33, 40, 41, 42,
43, 92, 141, 161, 218
uninterpretable  3, 40, 41,
42, 46, 47, 48, 102, 122, 125,
126, 133, 153, 172, 218
unvalued [uF]  31, 32, 40,
42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 62,
85, 94, 104, 108, 124, 125,
126, 127, 161, 193, 218, 219,
234, 238
valued [vF]  32, 33, 42, 86,
89, 193, 218, 219, 234, 238
feature-equilibrium  42, 56
Fin(iteness)  37, 41, 44, 96, 115,
125, 127, 129, 132, 135, 155, 169,
204, 236
Final-Over-Final Constraint
(FOFC) 161
first factor  7, 8, 173, 189, 229,
233
Foc(us) 100
Force  37, 100, 129
freezing effect  107, 108, 109,
110, 111, 113, 114, 119, 130, 138,
151, 152, 153, 239
French  59, 104, 215
	 Subject index	 265
Full Interpretation (FI)  3, 4, 5,
32, 33, 40, 41, 44, 46, 48, 76,
77, 78, 79, 81, 99, 106, 112, 113,
138, 139, 147, 163, 174, 192, 209,
210, 211, 213, 214, 216, 218,
220, 225, 227, 228, 233, 237, 238
Derivational 33
functional category  8, 14, 41,
57, 79, 87, 91, 100, 101, 102,
136, 137, 145, 171, 172, 173, 174,
194, 203, 240
G
generative capacity  21–25, 62
strong 170
weak 170
German  105, 185, 186, 187, 188,
189, 210, 221, 235, 237
Germanic languages  44, 180
government  134, 204
H
H-α schema  198, 216, 217
head parameter  142
head-final  156, 157, 158, 159, 161,
170, 171, 172, 178, 180, 185, 186,
187, 188, 189, 210
head-initial  13, 142, 156, 157,
158, 159, 160, 161, 178, 180, 185,
186, 187, 189
head-movement  4, 46, 54, 55,
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 95 98,
99, 106, 107, 112, 114, 115, 116,
138, 155, 177, 179, 181, 182, 186,
187, 189, 215, 216, 228, 239
roll-up  59, 60, 61, 158, 177
headedness  41, 68, 70, 72, 73,
78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 85, 87, 92,
94, 96, 102, 113, 122, 124, 125,
129, 141, 143, 155, 167, 191, 195,
201, 208, 211, 214, 215, 217,
220, 222, 223, 224, 236, 237
Human Language Computation
(CHL) 52
Hungarian 118
I
Icelandic  30, 31, 105, 106, 214,
215
Inclusiveness Condition (IC)
3, 4, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
29, 30, 44, 48, 52, 53, 61, 62,
63, 65, 66, 68, 78, 138, 227,
228, 231, 233, 238
index
bar-level  14, 15, 18, 66, 69
referential  4, 22, 29, 49, 52,
53, 54, 62, 68, 228, 238
Internal Merge (IM)
definition of  23, 115, 116, 235
internalism 39
Interpret  3, 5, 10, 25, 26, 28,
30, 33, 34, 35, 37, 46, 53, 54, 57,
61, 62, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78,
92, 93, 95, 102, 112, 113, 129,
141, 147, 167, 192, 193, 194, 199,
208, 209, 210, 216, 217, 219,
220, 225, 228, 234, 235, 236,
237, 238, 239
EM  94, 113, 115, 128, 235, 238
IM  93, 94, 112, 115, 216, 235
J
Japanese  98, 109, 116, 119, 120,
121, 136, 137, 150, 156, 159, 171,
177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 185,
186, 187, 202, 210, 235
K
K(ase)  41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47,
57, 58, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85,
86, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94,
96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102,
103, 104, 108, 111, 113, 114, 115,
118, 119, 120, 121, 124, 125, 126,
128, 129, 131, 132, 136, 145, 147,
148, 152, 153, 160, 179, 180, 181,
182, 183, 184, 185, 187, 188, 199,
200, 202, 204, 205, 206, 207,
208, 210, 212, 213, 214, 217,
218, 219, 220, 221, 222, 224,
236, 237, 239
L
label  2, 15, 17, 18, 19, 59, 66, 68,
69, 70, 72, 73, 79, 94, 97, 143,
145, 146, 157, 158, 159, 161, 162,
175, 188, 189, 190, 191, 192, 196,
200, 209, 217, 220, 228, 238
labeling algorithm (LA) 
71, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215, 218,
219, 220, 221, 222, 223, 225
last resort  47, 91, 157, 158, 178,
195
lexical item (LI)  1, 4, 18, 19, 20,
26, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 42, 46,
47, 49, 52, 53, 54, 55, 58, 60, 61,
62, 65, 66, 68, 70, 71, 72, 74,
75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 83, 84,
85, 88, 91, 92, 94, 95, 96, 97,
98, 99, 101, 102, 106, 107, 110,
111, 113, 114, 118, 119, 122, 124,
125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 132,
133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 139, 141,
142, 143, 144, 145, 147, 148, 151,
153, 155, 157, 159, 161, 162, 164,
167, 170, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180,
181, 184, 189, 191, 192, 193, 194,
195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200,
201, 202, 203, 206, 208, 209,
210, 211, 212, 213, 216, 217, 222,
223, 224, 227, 228, 229, 234,
235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240
modified 26
Lexicon  1, 3, 18, 20, 49, 53, 65,
74, 75, 135, 136, 209, 227, 229,
233, 234, 235, 240
linear (left-to-right) order 
4, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 27,
60, 65, 67, 129, 130, 142, 144,
150, 158, 159, 165, 166, 169, 177,
180, 185, 186, 189, 190, 227,
228, 240
Linear Correspondence Axiom
(LCA)  15, 72, 141–176, 189,
211, 220, 228, 240
linear-dependence (structure-
independence)  16, 169,
199, 228
linearization  4, 18, 24, 46, 60,
72, 76, 84, 103, 141–190, 191,
192, 210, 228, 235, 236, 240
locus principle  70
Logical Form (LF)  13, 21, 52,
209, 231
M
m-command 207
memory  1, 11, 27, 81, 169, 170,
175
Merge
binarity of  74, 237
definition of  2, 9
266	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
Merge-over-Move principle
(MOM)  48, 49, 50, 51, 53,
227
Minimal Computation (MC)
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 11, 18, 21, 25, 27, 29,
30, 32, 33, 41, 42, 48, 54, 61,
62, 63, 68, 74, 92, 99, 130, 178,
192, 209, 210, 211, 217, 225, 227,
228, 229, 231, 233, 237, 240
Minimal Head Detection (MHD)
4, 5, 71, 74, 75, 76, 77, 79, 80,
81, 84, 92, 93, 99, 106, 112, 113,
128, 129, 134, 135, 138, 139, 141,
147, 163, 175, 176, 179, 186, 188,
189, 191, 192, 198, 199, 200,
201, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212,
213, 214, 215, 216, 217, 219, 220,
223, 225, 228, 234, 237, 238
Minimal Search (MS)  2, 3, 4,
32, 80, 227, 233
Minimal Workspace (MW) 
2, 3, 4, 25, 26, 27, 34, 35, 41,
217, 227, 228, 233
Minimalist Program (MP) 
2, 8–10, 29, 73, 174, 189
model theory  10, 231
Move  47–50, 55
Moved Clausal Complement
Generalization  101, 239
multi-rooted structure  43, 45,
46, 56, 181, 182, 205
N
n (light noun, little noun,
nominalizer)  42, 136, 137
n*  41, 85
natural adequacy  8
naturalism  38, 39
No-tampering Condition (NTC)
3, 4, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 30,
36, 37, 44, 45, 48, 53, 55, 56, 59,
60, 61, 62, 63, 65, 66, 76, 77,
78, 98, 106, 138, 205, 216, 227,
228, 231, 234, 238
Nominative Case  40, 41, 44,
45, 46, 58, 125, 126, 182, 183,
187, 188, 204, 205, 236
noncomplement-reduction
146, 148, 149, 152, 153, 154, 155,
159, 160
nonterminal symbol  11, 12, 14,
15, 18, 19, 66, 68, 69, 70, 72,
97, 141, 142, 144, 160–164, 168,
175, 189, 192, 223
Noun (N)  12–14, 18, 22, 30, 42,
43, 57, 66, 68, 69, 70, 79, 80,
81, 84, 85, 86, 87, 89, 90, 96,
115, 134, 146, 147, 179, 180, 181,
182, 183, 184, 185, 187, 188, 203,
207, 212, 213, 218, 221, 224,
235, 236
Numeration  48–50, 52, 53, 62,
68, 228, 238
O
Oblique Case  41, 89–90
OCC(urrence)-feature 133
Optimal Compositionality
Thesis (OCT)  75, 76, 92,
113, 192, 198, 209, 210, 216, 217,
219, 220, 228, 237
Order Preservation Convention
184, 188, 189, 235, 240
P
P (preposition, postposition,
adposition)  13, 39, 41, 57, 72,
80, 85, 86, 87, 89, 90, 96, 99,
109, 122, 124, 128, 129, 131, 132,
168, 186, 194, 236, 239
p-merge  166–169, 171, 174,
189, 227
pair-Merge  122, 129, 130, 166
Palauan 118
parameter  8, 14, 15, 72, 86, 104,
134, 142, 143, 156, 158, 166, 173,
175, 177, 182, 189, 235
parsing  161, 166, 169, 170, 178
percolation (of features)  4, 71,
72, 86, 87, 88, 138, 198, 227, 238
performance  9, 73, 166, 167,
173, 174, 23, 234
P(eriphery)-feature  133, 134
phase
edge  34, 35, 36, 46, 57, 66,
79, 82, 83, 84, 85, 88, 89,
92, 97, 104, 106, 111, 113,
114, 118, 120, 124, 126, 128,
130, 132, 133, 145, 146, 187,
194, 197, 207, 212, 221
head  36, 37, 55, 61, 77, 78, 79,
80, 83, 84, 85, 88, 91, 92, 95,
96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 104, 105,
107, 110, 122, 124, 126, 129,
133, 136, 137, 138, 148, 151,
180, 183, 194, 202, 211, 239
interior  34, 35, 36, 37, 41, 42,
43, 46, 54, 61, 62, 77, 78,
79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 89, 91,
92, 95, 96, 98, 99, 102, 103,
104, 107, 110, 111, 113, 145,
147, 148, 151, 180, 182, 183,
187, 193, 194, 217, 234, 238
Phase-Impenetrability
Condition (PIC)  4, 36, 84,
105, 107, 108, 111, 113, 123, 132,
133, 134, 146, 162, 184, 189,
228, 238, 239, 240
φ-feature [φ]  31, 33, 40, 41, 42,
43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 57, 58, 85,
86, 89, 90, 97, 99, 105, 126,
134, 172, 179, 181, 182, 183, 187,
188, 204, 205, 206, 213, 214,
217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 222,
224, 235, 236, 238
PHON (phonetic interface/
representation)  1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
10, 11, 20, 24, 25, 26, 32, 36, 37,
40, 41, 46, 54, 65, 68, 73, 75, 76,
77, 81, 85, 98, 103, 135, 141, 142,
145, 147, 155, 172, 176, 189, 190,
191, 193, 210, 218, 223, 225, 227,
228, 229, 233, 234, 238, 240
Phonetic Form (PF)  55, 157,
158, 159, 166, 178, 209, 215
phonological feature  18, 26, 42,
75, 76, 135, 176, 177, 210, 219,
228, 236
phrasal movement  88, 91,
95–106, 151
Phrasal Sister Condition (PSC)
130, 131, 132, 139, 240
phrase structure grammar (PSG)
69, 223, 224
phrase structure rule (PSR) 
11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 18, 21, 24, 66,
69, 70, 134, 169, 224
pied-piping  48, 60, 84, 85, 87,
88, 91, 96, 97, 102, 103, 106, 145,
168, 201, 202, 203, 208, 239
	 Subject index	 267
Portuguese
European 106
postcedence  142, 176
immediate 176
pragmatics  127, 153, 169
precedence  12, 13, 17, 18, 127,
142, 143, 144, 145, 147, 155, 158,
162, 165, 166, 167, 169, 170, 174,
175, 176, 177, 180, 183, 185, 189,
190, 235
immediate  127, 166, 167, 175,
176, 177, 180, 183, 235
predicate-internal subject
hypothesis 43
principled explanation  16, 129,
138, 169, 170, 195
Principles-and-Parameters
model (P&P)  8, 173
pro  118, 150
PRO  38, 96, 127
processing  85, 170, 175, 229
production  166, 169, 170, 229,
230
projection
extended  71, 195
maximal (Xmax, XP)  13, 66,
69, 88, 91, 137, 142, 146, 157,
159, 168, 214, 239, 240
minimal (X0, a lexical item)
55, 56, 57, 59
X0max  57, 59, 60, 61
pronominalization 169
pronoun  52, 121
propositional(ity)  37, 38, 39,
40, 129
Q
Q(uantifier)  40, 87, 88, 89, 91,
92, 93, 94, 97, 102, 111, 113, 114,
115, 124, 132, 199, 200, 202,
203, 221, 239
quantificational feature [Q]
40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 57, 58, 85,
86, 89, 90, 94, 179, 181, 182,
183, 187, 188, 219, 221, 222, 235,
236, 239
Quantifier-Raising 94
quirky agreement  105, 106, 214
R
raising construction  49, 96,
131–133, 204, 236
recombination problem  37
reconstruction  24, 28, 29, 116,
195, 216, 219
reference  10, 231
remerge  46, 56, 60, 61, 96, 114,
181, 239
remnant movement  172
Romance languages  30, 99,
106, 110
root
category (√root)  42, 57
morphological  176, 177
node (SO)  19, 34, 35, 46, 54,
56, 57, 58, 62, 182, 184, 185,
194, 234, 240
SO  43, 45, 46, 54, 56, 57, 58,
62, 181, 182, 194, 205, 234
Russian  117, 149
S
S (Sentence)  12, 13, 18, 22, 66,
68, 69, 134, 224
S′  12, 13, 22, 69
scrambling  109, 117, 119, 120,
121, 149, 151
Search  2, 3, 32, 43, 193, 199, 227,
233, 234
second factor  7, 189, 233
Select  49, 52, 68
selection  70, 71, 103, 104, 193,
194, 195, 199, 201, 203, 204,
206, 208
categorial (c-selection) 
103, 115, 158, 193, 194, 204,
206, 239
semantic (s-selection) 
92, 103, 158, 194, 204, 239
SEM (semantic interface/
representation)  1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
10, 11, 15, 20, 25, 26, 32, 36, 37,
40, 41, 46, 54, 65, 68, 73, 75,
76, 77, 80, 81, 93, 95, 112, 113,
125, 135, 172, 176, 191, 192, 193,
201, 208, 210, 214, 215, 216,
217, 218, 219, 220, 223, 224,
225, 227, 228, 229, 233, 234,
237, 238
semantic feature  18, 26, 30, 42,
74, 75, 76, 79, 93, 94, 112, 113,
114, 128, 135, 199, 207, 208,
210, 215, 216, 219, 220, 228,
235, 236, 237, 238
semantics  10, 28, 29, 38, 54, 67,
92, 93, 95, 116, 129, 227, 231,
235, 238
duality of  28, 54, 67, 92, 95,
115, 227
Sensorimotor system (SM) 
9, 10, 18, 28, 29, 30, 33, 35, 36,
37, 41, 54, 65, 72, 78, 141, 142,
145, 211, 234
Serbo-Croatian 178
set-Merge  122, 129, 166, 227
sideward movement/remerge
46, 56, 60, 61, 114, 181, 239
Single Event Condition 
127, 128, 129
singleton set  19, 74, 77, 80, 81,
164, 179, 210
small clause  220, 222
Spanish  30, 31, 106, 110, 152,
153, 160
specifier (Spec)  5, 15, 36, 43, 45,
49, 50, 79, 80, 82, 83, 84, 85,
86, 96, 97, 100, 101, 102, 103,
110, 118, 119, 120, 125, 132, 133,
137, 142, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148,
149, 150, 152, 157, 158, 159, 160,
166–168, 171, 172, 180, 182, 187,
191, 195, 196, 199, 200, 201,
202, 203, 204, 205, 206, 207,
208, 224, 225, 228, 239, 240
elimination of  199, 208
stipulation of  201, 208
Spell-Out  3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 18, 24,
25, 26, 28, 30, 33, 34, 35, 37, 46,
53, 54, 57, 61, 62, 73, 75, 76, 77,
78, 79, 84, 102, 141, 142, 145,
147, 163, 167, 175, 176, 177, 178,
179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184, 185,
191, 192, 193, 194, 199, 208,
209, 210, 216, 219, 225, 228,
234, 235, 237, 238, 239
Strong Minimalist Thesis (SMT)
9, 10, 18, 26, 28, 47, 48, 53, 54,
66, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 75, 134,
138, 139, 145, 160, 162, 171, 174,
191, 197, 198, 209, 216, 217, 234
268	 Endocentric Structuring of Projection-free Syntax
structural analysis (SA)  22
structural change (SC)  22
structure dependence  16, 169,
170, 199, 216, 228
subcategorization  103, 158, 193,
194, 204, 239
subject condition  109, 116–121,
130, 134, 182
subject-in-situ generalization
212
substitution  122, 153
Superset Bias  177
syntactic object (SO)
definition of  19, 65, 234
syntax
definition of  9
narrow (NS)
definition of  9
T
Tense (T)  33, 37, 38, 40, 41, 44,
45, 46, 49, 50, 51, 54, 55, 56,
58, 59, 60, 61, 72, 83, 84, 86,
92, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 102, 104,
105, 106, 108, 110, 111, 115, 120,
125, 126, 127, 129, 132, 152, 153,
182, 183, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188,
200, 204, 205, 206, 213, 214,
215, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 222,
224, 236, 238, 239
term-of (relation)  19, 23, 29,
35, 36, 41, 42, 46, 53, 54, 56, 61,
62, 81, 102, 115, 116, 194, 234,
235, 238
definition of  19, 235
θ-Criterion  44, 80, 113, 237
θ-role  28, 37, 39, 44, 80, 81, 94,
95, 104, 113, 114, 193, 201, 206,
207, 208, 212, 215, 236, 237
third factor  1, 5, 7, 8, 11, 25, 71,
75, 136, 173, 174, 192, 209, 210,
211, 225, 227, 228, 233, 237
three factors of language design
7, 174, 233
Tlingit  87, 202–203
topicalization  37, 96, 105, 115,
187, 222
tough construction  109, 117,
120, 149
trace
invisibility of  112, 113, 212,
213, 214, 215, 216, 217, 220,
221, 222, 228
theory of movement  112
Transfer  3, 4, 5, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39,
41, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 51,
52, 53, 54, 57, 58, 61, 62, 68, 73,
77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84,
85, 88, 89, 91, 92, 95, 96, 97,
98, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106,
107, 108, 110, 111, 113, 118, 119,
120, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 130,
132, 137, 138, 143, 145, 146, 147,
148, 151, 152, 153, 156, 157, 162,
163, 175, 180, 181, 184, 192, 193,
194, 199, 207, 208, 209, 210,
211, 212, 213, 225, 228, 234,
238, 239, 240
definition of  25, 34, 35, 46,
54, 62, 77, 194, 234
transformation  11, 13, 21, 22, 23,
24, 63, 66, 67, 82, 134, 141, 151,
169, 173, 227, 229
truth-condition  10, 231
*[t, t]  108, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116,
216, 239
Turkish  117, 150
type-shifting  173, 231
V
v (light verb, little verb,
verbalizer)  39, 41, 47, 49, 57,
60, 79, 96, 97, 105, 116, 120,
145, 208, 212, 213, 236
v*  36, 39, 41, 43, 44, 45, 46,
57, 58, 61, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85,
86, 95, 97, 106, 108, 114, 115,
116, 118, 119, 120, 124, 125,
126, 129, 131, 146, 147, 148,
150, 151, 152, 153, 160, 181,
182, 183, 184, 185, 187, 188,
205, 206, 207, 208, 236
Value  30, 32, 33, 193, 219, 234
Verb (V)  12, 13, 14, 18, 22, 37,
38, 41, 43, 44, 46, 49, 54, 55,
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 66, 68,
69, 70, 79, 80, 81, 93, 94, 95,
96, 97, 98, 99, 103, 104, 105,
106, 114, 115, 118, 124, 126, 142,
143, 146, 147, 148, 150, 181,
182, 183, 184, 185, 187, 188, 203,
206, 207, 208, 212, 213, 215,
221, 224, 236, 239
verb-second (V2)  105, 106,
186, 187, 188
Visibility Guideline for
Functional Categories 
136, 137, 203, 240
Vocabulary 75
W
WH-feature [WH]  40, 42, 85,
86, 87, 89, 90, 94, 102, 103,
104, 111, 134, 202, 203, 204,
235, 236, 239
wh-movement  22, 24, 86, 88,
90, 100, 101, 102, 103, 115, 127,
178, 215, 221
word order  45, 104, 142, 148,
156, 157, 158, 169, 170, 171, 172,
178, 180, 184, 185, 186, 188,
189, 190, 228, 240
template of  171, 172, 190,
228
X
X-bar schema  13, 15, 69, 224
X-bar theory  2, 5, 13, 14, 15,
17, 18, 55, 66, 69, 70, 73, 137,
142, 165, 168, 171, 195, 196,
197, 200, 202, 207, 223, 224,
225, 227
Relativized 14
