14
accessing scholarly literature that addresses issues related to the substantive codes.
Oftentimes the literature is found across different disciplines, which creates oppor-
tunities for new multidisciplinary research. However, the research literature is not
placed in a privileged position of authority. It is treated as another body of data
equal in status to what has been generated by the people in the field. Scholarly
literature and field data complement rather than compete with each other for theo-
retical significance.
1.4.3 Final Stage
The theorist eventually reaches a point of ‘theoretical sufficiency’ (Dey 1999,
pp. 117–118), when enough information has been gathered to develop a theory. This
is often accompanied by an experience that Schatzman (1991, p. 310), describes as
‘critical mass’, one in which the theorist has a sudden epiphany about the meaning
and overall interpretation of the issues being studied. The analysis now shifts to
theoretical coding. In puzzle-like fashion, the researcher begins to create theoretical
connections between the major categories. Social processes link these categories,
and the theorist assigns these processes with conceptual labels. The labels for
describing the social processes require theorists to move further way from the
descriptiveness of earlier coding. Here, they must use their ‘sociological imagination’
(Mills 1959/2000) for creatively encapsulating the general within the particular, and
for highlighting the interconnected flow between the social processes.
Eventually, the theorist should identify a core category or a basic social process
(Glaser and Strauss 1967/1999, pp. 191–193; Glaser 1978, pp. 94–97), which is the
central theme that ties together the other social processes. The basic social process
often contains various ‘stages or phases to account for process, change, and move-
ment over time’ (Eaves 2001, p. 659).
After completing this third stage, grounded theorists will have collected enough
material to write several books and papers. Disseminating the theory requires a
significant amount of editing and restructuring. The scholarly research accessed
during the second and third stages of the study is presented at the beginning as a
literature review that contextualizes the theory for the readers. The main categories
become the subjects of specific chapters. The substantive codes will become the
subsections of each chapter, and theoretical memos that further explain and illus-
trate the social processes are used to add further detail. The final chapter will often
contain the core category, core social processes, or theoretical codes that might offer
any further insight into the area of study.
Distinct from Case Studies, Action Research, Ethnographies, and Pheno-
menological investigations, all of which are ‘grounded’in their own right, a Grounded
Theory approach focuses less upon specific people and places, and more upon
actions and social processes transferrable across similar social environments.
The result is an explanatory theory about the things that people do when placed in
specific circumstances and certain social conditions. Because grounded theories are
1 Setting the Stage: Context, Concepts, and Theoretical Constructions
15
developed and coded from the words and regularly occurring behavior of people in
a specific social domain, a good theory will fit for similar social conditions else-
where. Even in the case when there is already a significant body of literature on
an issue, such as neoliberal governance in Higher Education, Stern and Porr
(2011, p. 31) state that Grounded Theory provides a framework through which
scholars from different disciplines can explore the same subject from different
perspectives, thereby providing new vocabulary for naming social processes, and
making theoretical contributions that are unique, imaginative and multifaceted.
Birks and Mills (2011, pp. 16–17) and Glaser (1978, p. 10) have argued that ‘a well
done grounded theory will usually, if not invariably, transcend diverse previous
works while integrating them into a new theory of greater scope than extant ones.
This is a useful contribution.’
Grounded Theory is not without its critics (Layder 1982, 1993; Burawoy 1991).
Many of these ascribe to positivist forms of knowledge production. They not only
question the degree to which any Grounded Theory is grounded (Thomas and James
2006), if the presentation of the theory diverges from APA writing conventions, they
are quick to accuse the work as being either unscientific or biased (Madigan et al.
1995; Walsh-Bowers 1999; Zeller and Farmer 1999). In addition, because Grounded
Theory often presents excerpts of interview data that are linked to codes and pro-
cesses, this will invariably lead to accusations either of ‘cherry picking’ items that
supports the theorist’s agenda, or dismay that the interpretation of the reader has
differed from the interpretation of the theorist (Saldaña 2011). Such epistemological
issues have been an enduring feature of the ‘paradigm wars’ that have occasionally
flared up in the social sciences, and which have often generated more heat than light
(Cobb and Bowers 1999, p. 6; Lowe and Carr 2003, p. 1058). Those more accepting
of constructivist, postmodern and critical realist epistemologies, however, under-
stand that the human condition is complex, and that multiple interpretations of the
same data are both natural and necessary. There is greater acceptance of the fact that
studying issues from a certain perspective does not necessarily entail that one is
being willfully predisposed to a certain agenda. Those who have engaged in
Grounded Theory or other forms of mixed methods and qualitative research will
also recognize that data presentation is representative of many months of studying
hundreds, if not thousands of pieces of qualitative data. If the theorist has followed
the processes of constant comparison and other procedures in GTM, they can a least
gain a hearing without being dismissed at the onset.
Nevertheless, Miles (1979, p. 591) asks a question that all qualitative researchers
must be willing to face: ‘How can we be sure that an “earthy,” “undeniable,” “seren-
dipitous” finding is not, in fact, wrong?’ The risk of error and self-deception will be
an ever-present danger, and one cannot defend qualitative research simply by appeal-
ing to the quantity of datasets or the length of time engaged in the research. This is
why it is important to emphasize that this work presents a critical grounded theory,
not ‘grounded fact’, at least in the way that ‘fact’ is often understood by those who
ascribe to positivist beliefs. Theory does not magically emerge from the methodol-
ogy; it proceeds from the grounded theorist as the ‘core processor’ of the collected
data. The grounded theorist uses the methodology to better visualize the overall
1.4 Critical Grounded Theory
16
shape of the data, meaning that data is mediated through the theorist’s constructs,
experience, discipline, endurance, skill as a researcher and sensitivity to others.
1.5 Practicing Reflexivity
For these reasons, grounded theorists and other qualitative researchers often choose
to share with readers some of the aspects of their research background and beliefs,
as well as explain how they have composed their writings and collected the data.
Such reflexive practices often enable readers to better understand the worldview of
the theorist, the potential applications and limitations of the theory, and the intel-
lectual ferment from which a particular grounded theory has been catalyzed.
1.5.1 Research Background and Paradigmatic Position
Much of my last 20 years has been spent living and teaching in Japan, with frequent
travel to the United States and nearly 2 years of life in the UK. This has motivated
my interest in the culture of second language classrooms, which I study using
research instruments such as Personal Construct Repertory Grids (Hadley and Evans
2001), a tool developed by George Kelly, the founder of Personal Construct
Psychology (Kelly 1955, 1963) which has been used as a means to understand
deeper issues affecting the educational processes of TESOL and EAP (Rowsell
1992; Roberts 1999; Borg 2004). Some of my research interests transcend EAP, as I
have used phenomenological methods to investigate the cultural differences and
multiple viewpoints around war memories (Hadley 2007). Paradigmatically, I oper-
ate within a combination of Critical Realism, which tends to separate ontology from
epistemology, and Constructivism (M. Archer 1998; Bhaskar 1998). My philosophi-
cal perspective, therefore, approaches that of Strauss and Clarke, both of whose
approaches to Grounded Theory have been shaped by American Pragmatism
(Annells 1997, p. 121; Clarke 2005, p. xxxiii; Locke 2005, p. 28). According this
view, the social world is not only multidimensional, it is also marked by constant
flux and flow. It is a chaotic maelstrom of ideas, agendas, viewpoints and activities,
upon which transient social systems are provisionally imposed. The influence of all
these streams of thought (and even my choice of such fluid language as ‘streams’)
will be seen in the structure of my theoretical models and graphs, which in term of
design, appear similar to the types of conceptual representations found in Strauss
and Corbin (1990, 1997, 1998) and Clarke (2003, 2005), who also allow background
contextual issues and broad sociopolitical dynamics to take a more prominent role in
the development of grounded theories. These contribute to my view of social reality
as dynamic, multifaceted, and multidimensional. My fascination with GTM began
during my doctoral work, and the methodological approach of Glaser and Charmaz
had the greatest influence on my development as a grounded theorist.
1 Setting the Stage: Context, Concepts, and Theoretical Constructions
17
1.5.2 Composition Style, Transcription, and Data Collection
Paradigmatic beliefs underscore the manner in which this book has been written.
Many readers will have already noted that the tone and style has so far differed from
what is normally found in many Applied Linguistics books and journals, where
there is a tendency to engage in a type of objectivized, hedged and neutral discourse
that gives rise to positivist expectations. I have purposely sought to avoid this, and
instead have chosen to write in a style emulating the ‘Chicago School’ of sociologi-
cal inquiry, which is a long-established and rigorous tradition of academic writing
(Goffman 1959/2005; Fine 1993; Belcher and Hirvela 2005; Tellez and Waxman
2006). I feel this will provide a more accessible and engaging way of presenting the
subject matter. This style also allows me as the writer to occasionally become visi-
ble to you, the reader, during moments in the book when I discuss certain field
observations or interview excerpts.
With regard to the interview data, something needs to be said about the process
of transcription. Through a research website for sociologists, I hired two academic
transcriptionists after testing them for speed and accuracy. I made this decision
because making my own transcripts was a laborious process requiring as much as
ten hours to transcribe a one hour interview. The trained transcriptionists were
quicker, accurate, and professional. They were well aware of the need to ensure the
privacy of the informants and to preserve the security of the interview data files as
part of their professional code of conduct. As neither had personal or professional
contacts with any of the informants or venues, I was sufficiently satisfied that
anonymity and privacy could be maintained.
These attempts to ensure the quality and quantity of the transcripts, and to com-
municate my expectations to the transcriptionists, were only the beginning of the
process. Epistemologically, Poland (2001, p. 635) has noted that the whole concept
of ‘transcript’ has become problematized, and presently there is little consensus as
to what truly constitutes a verbatim transcript (Lapadat 2000, p. 204). The
controversy surrounding transcriptions means that a universal system of notation for
qualitative research does not exist (McLellan et al. 2003, p. 64). Poland (2001,
pp. 635–636) and McLellan et al. (2003) instruct researchers to be clear about their
purposes for transcription and consistent in the manner by which transcripts have
been constructed for research analysis. They also state that it is entirely acceptable
for researchers to design their own notation system.
My purpose for creating transcripts was not for spoken discourse analysis, but
instead for theorizing on informant narratives on sociological issues related to
BLEAPs in neoliberal HEIs. I created a notation system that was sufficient for these
purposes. Ellipses were used to replace ‘ehrm’, stuttering or false starts, which is
part of the process of using intelligent verbatim transcription, a point to which I will
return momentarily. It documented pauses, laughs, issues related to unintelligibility
(technical problems, noise, mumbling, etc.), and ancillary features such as desk-
pounding, mimicking, shifts in body language, changes in the informant’s normal
tone of voice, and times during interviews when I noted significant changes in facial
1.5 Practicing Reflexivity
18
expressions or meaningful gestures. In accordance with Mergenthaler & Stinson’s
suggestions for transcription, my minimalist notation system was easy for the tran-
scriptionists to follow, as it required only ‘everyday language competence’; it was
‘understandable and applicable by secretaries,’ and the rules were ‘limited in num-
ber, simple, and easy to learn’ (Mergenthaler and Stinson 1992, pp. 129–130). My
system also mirrored examples of transcript excerpts found in other published
Grounded Theory works (e.g. Charmaz 2006, p. 44).
The decision not to use a discourse analysis system of transcription will undoubt-
edly be questioned by some Applied Linguists. I readily acknowledge that the man-
ner in which one communicates an idea is often as significant as what was actually
said, but Poland defends my strategy, noting that a discourse analysis of large
amounts of transcribed data would be fatally exhausting, both for the researcher and
the transcriptionists:
There is a limit to the degree of painstaking attention to detail that can be demanded of a
transcriber in applying an elaborate system of codes…In studies with large samples (60-
100+ interviews), when analysis may be more superficial and limited to the cataloging of
opinions or experiences, close attention to conversational dynamics may be unnecessary
(Poland 2001, pp. 639–640).
Returning now to the issue of intelligent verbatim transcription, such transcripts
are faithful to what the informants have said, but they do not contain every filler
word, hesitation and false start. Although these aspects are certainly interesting to
applied linguists, they can be distractions to generating a Grounded Theory.
Intelligent verbatim fulfills Mergenthaler & Stinson’s stipulation for the morpho-
logic and structural naturalness of transcription to be maintained, though admittedly
it runs counter to their belief that it should be an ‘exact reproduction’(Mergenthaler
and Stinson 1992, p. 129). While intelligent verbatim represents sanitized discourse
and risks losing important segments of linguistic meaning, the burden on research-
ers working with large numbers of transcripts must be considered:
We do not need the full clutter of a transcript designed for conversation analysis. We need
an account that accurately represents and effectively communicates the statements of the
interviewee. Sanitization involves minor alterations to assist that representation and com-
munication, and does not in our view corrupt the data (Buchanan et al. 1988, p. 62).
Silverman (2001, pp. 249–250) agrees, adding that ‘there cannot be a perfect
transcript of a tape-recording. Everything depends upon what you are trying to do in
the analysis, as well as upon practical considerations involving time and resources.’
The limits of time and resources spurred my choice for intelligent verbatim
transcripts: they were sufficient for my research purposes, and with over 1,000 pages
of transcript material, they were the most economical choice. Transcriptions and the
way they are used depend in large part on the research concerns of the theorist, which
may differ from the interpretations and preferences of readers ascribing to different
research methodologies, dissimilar personal constructs regarding data interpretation,
and divergent epistemological beliefs on what types of knowledge can and should be
transmitted via the transcript. My intentions were to provide a richer sense of report-
ing and to bring the readers further into the data with me as I explain the theory.
1 Setting the Stage: Context, Concepts, and Theoretical Constructions
19
An issue of even greater interest, I believe, relates to the collection of the field
data itself. In contrast to ethnographic or case study designs, grounded theorists
rarely delve as deeply into describing, for example, how access to informants or
research venues was gained. The focus is more upon thick theorization than upon
thick description. However, because of the relative obscurity of GTM in Applied
Linguistics and related fields, I will attempt to provide more detail concerning
these aspects.
VanMaanenandKolb(1982,p.14)notethat‘gainingaccesstomostorganizational
settings is not a matter to be taken lightly but one that involves some combination of
strategic planning, hard work, and dumb luck.’ Educational organizations have an
especially ‘bounded nature’ (Bryman 1989, p. 2) that are particularly resistant to the
independent analyst appearing on their doorstep, armed with a clipboard, recording
device, and prying questions. The literature is replete with stories of qualitative
researchers being denied access at the last moment by apprehensive gatekeepers
(Beynon 1988, pp. 23–26), and it is for this reason that experienced fieldworkers
(Buchanan et al. 1988, p. 53; Bryman 1989, pp. 161–162) often adopt an opportunistic
approach. ‘Opportunistic’here should not be interpreted as what was once advocated
by Glaser & Strauss:
Another time-consuming aspect of data collection is establishing rapport with the people
who are to be interviewed and observed. To establish rapport quickly is, of course, some-
times difficult…though establishing rapport is often not necessary. In later stages of the
research, when sampling many comparative groups quickly for data on a few categories, the
sociologist may obtain his data in a few minutes or half a day without the people he talks
with, overhears or observes recognizing his purpose. He may obtain his data before being
shooed off the premises for interfering with current activities; and he may obtain his data
clandestinely in order to get it quickly, without explanations, and to be allowed to get it at
all (Glaser and Strauss 1967/1999, p. 75).
Dey (1999, p. 119) calls this the ‘smash and grab’method of access management.
Infiltrating organizations without permission for the express purpose of spying on
people raises a number of ethical concerns. By opportunistic, I mean gaining per-
mission to research where one already has existing personal or professional connec-
tions. Denzin and Lincoln (2000b, p. 370) and Richards (2003, pp. 249–250) state
that such an approach readily complements contemporary GT strategies. It is stan-
dard practice in countries such as Japan, where it is almost impossible to gain access
to a university or college without either working at the institution or having a col-
league who can facilitate entry.
Therefore, I used an opportunistic approach for accessing the research sites of
this study. While in the beginning, the bulk of my data collection took place at the
core sites, I expanded my study to include other HEIs in the UK, Japan and the
United States (Table 1.1). Some of this was facilitated by my work at NUGIS,
which required me to travel to various universities in the United States in search of
possible venues for short-term study abroad programs. I had many professional ties
that had lasted for many years at Alpha University. I was able to secure access with
considerable ease, and was able to observe the trajectory of BLEAPs at this a core
site. I spent a year on sabbatical at Beta University, a British university, where I had
1.5 Practicing Reflexivity
20
unfettered access not only to academics in the university, this venue also allowed
me to easily visit other universities in the UK, ranging from Russell Group
Universities to Post 1992 institutions. Because EAP Units are often distinct in
being assigned unique acronyms particular to a certain university, all acronyms
referring to EAP Units that appear later in informant interview excerpts have been
anonymized as EAP.
Bryman (1989, p. 3) warns that simply getting into an organization does not
ensure that people will talk. Gaining access, much like the process of grounded
theorizing, is a mediated experience. Success in convincing people to give their
informed consent to participate in a qualitative research project is often linked to
perceived (and often unspoken) benefits, just as failure in convincing people
relates to the risks posed to their standing in the organization (Beynon 1988,
p. 21; Van Maanen 1988, pp. 4–5; Fielding 2001, pp. 150–151). Persuasion and
rapport building were constant strategies for maintaining access after getting my
foot in the door. Even so, the quality of availability and contribution differed
greatly between informants. There is little that one can do about this, and in the
spirit of what is sometimes referred to as the methodological bricoleur
(Levi-Strauss 1966; Hatton 1989; Denzin and Lincoln 1998b), I took the advice
of Strauss & Corbin to accept such situations as the norm, and to ‘make the most
out of what is available’ (1990, p. 210).
Also, in keeping with the methodological procedures described earlier for
Critical Grounded Theory, at the onset I remained open to anyone who would talk
Table 1.1 Research sites
HEI Location Type Total visits
NUGIS Japan Private Core site
University of Wensleydale UK Russell Group Over 10
Polaris State University USA State Land Grant Over 10
Alpha University Japan National Core site
Beta University UK Russell Group Core site
Gamma University Japan Elite Private 3
Delta University UK Red Brick 3
Epsilon University UK 1994 Group 3
Zeta University USA State (Public Ivy) 1
Eta University USA State Land Grant 1
Theta University USA Private Religious 1
Iota University USA State Land Grant 1
Kappa University Japan Private Women’s 1
Lambda University USA Urban University 1
Mu University UK Research University 1
Nu University UK Russell Group 1
Xi University UK Russell Group 1
Omicron University UK Post 1992 1
1 Setting the Stage: Context, Concepts, and Theoretical Constructions
21
to me. This entailed quite a few interviews with international students and
undergraduate Japanese students, both in English and Japanese. Early interviews
with undergraduate Japanese students took place in small focus groups at NUGIS,
but interviews with undergraduate Japanese learners and graduate international
students were conducted individually at the University of Wensleydale. I had
continuous access to TEAPs, and interviewed many at the start in order to try and
understand what might be going on in EAP Units. Other early informants were
former TEAPs who had become full-academics, and their perspectives on Tertiary
EAP balanced some of the rawness of TEAP accounts in interviews. Through my
role in maintaining the NUGIS-Polaris Overseas Program, I was able to gain access
to a number of high-ranking HEI administrators. At NUGIS, the frontline office
staff members were quite open to becoming informants. However, upper-level
administration often declined to participate, frequently citing work overload, which
is a common avoidance strategy used by powerful stakeholders to avoid scrutiny
(Beynon 1988). My ability to secure the trust and access of midlevel administration
at Wensleydale was limited, because at the time various academic departments were
in the process of restructuring and many were fearful of job losses. I had better
results with the frontline administrative staff, as I had worked with some of them
closely over several summers and had cultivated friendships that opened doors for
later interviews. I also had little difficulty in gaining access to different types of
informants at the other core sites, though opportunities for interviews and field
observations could be sporadic due to scheduling and work commitments.
Eventually, in the interplay of the words and personal constructs of both myself
and the informants, my coding began to center on Blended EAP Professionals. Part
of the reason was that at the time, BLEAPs were only beginning to appear in Japan,
though I learned from informant interviews in the US and UK that people of the
type who were filling the types roles later to be defined as related to BLEAPs had
already become commonplace. There have been many studies on international
students, university administrators, and EAP teacher identity, but a study of BLEAPs
presented itself as a new area of exploration. Therefore, BLEAPs became the nexus
for understanding this critical grounded theory of EAP in neoliberal universities, but
the words, actions, processes, and observations of students, TEAPs, frontline
administrative staff, and senior HE managers also contributed significantly to the
development of this theory, as will be seen in later chapters.
Once it became clear that the processes of the BLEAPs were emerging as the
main concern, theoretical sampling necessitated a shift towards finding out more
about the social processes related to BLEAPs. While I was seeking out BLEAPs,
this was in the context of the theoretical processes and categories that were emerging
from my interaction with observation and interview data. I arranged meetings with
BLEAPs at additional research sites and cultivated opportunities for interviews at
several academic conferences. For those who consented to interviews, along the
lines of Constant Comparison, BLEAPs were encouraged to add to, offer more
insight into, or give reasons why they disagreed with, my developing theoretical
ideas. Coding became even more focused after interviews were supplemented
with notes of further field observations at the university research sites, together with
1.5 Practicing Reflexivity
22
video clips, work documents, photos, and other such artifacts as provided by infor-
mants in the field.
Table 1.2 shows the total numbers of informants and transcribed interviews.
Some informants were interviewed once, while some upper-level administrators
and BLEAPs were interviewed on several occasions. Initial interviews typically ran
from 30–90 min each, and were these always conducted in person. Because infor-
mants were interspersed between three countries, follow up questions and inter-
views were conducted through e-mail and Skype.
As this moment of reflexivity comes to a close, it is hoped that what has been
provided will be sufficient for helping readers to understand some of the surround-
ing issues related to data collection, its potential ‘goodness’, and something of the
nature of how the data contributed to the construction of this theory. Yet it is also
important to once again reassert that social processes are of more interest that,
within the concerns of Grounded Theory, than particular people, the number of
informants, certain emotional states, body language reported in transcripts, or even
of the specific research venues. It is not to say these are unimportant, only that such
concerns tend to find places of greater prominence within the framework of other
qualitative methodologies.
1.6 Structure of This Book
The conceptual threads of this introductory chapter will now be woven back together
through the methodology of Grounded Theory, and will form the basis of this book,
English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical Grounded
Theory. Based on an analysis of qualitative interviews from ninety-eight informants
in the UK, Japan and the United States, and informed by over 1,300 pages of inter-
view transcripts, together with photos, videos, analyses of Personal Construct
Repertory Grids, email correspondence, archives of professional journals, and a
large collection of coded observation notes, this book presents a grounded theory on
the strategies used by BLEAPs to survive in neoliberal HEIs. Blended EAP
Table 1.2 Totals and types of informants interviewed
Informant type Total participants Total interviews
Graduate EAP students 6 5
Undergraduate EAP students 34 19
Senior administrators 12 18
Frontline EAP administrative staff 7 7
BLEAPs 13 28
TEAPs 20 29
Academics 6 17
1 Setting the Stage: Context, Concepts, and Theoretical Constructions
23
Professionals have been chosen as the locus for understanding EAP in corporate
universities, since they have become a major conduit through which EAP is cur-
rently being transformed. This theory considers not only issues that are related to
those charged with managing without positional power, it also studies the effects
of BLEAP strategies on international students and TEAPs both in and outside the
classroom.
Chapter 2 carries on with the contextual background to this theory by discussing
numerous sociopolitical, economic and theoretical concepts contributing to the neo-
liberalization of HE. The different types of HEIs to which I gained access, and a
discussion of conditions creating the Third Space in neoliberal universities, will be
considered. The chapter will end with a study of the conditions within the Third
Space that inexorably transform EAP Teaching Units into Student Processing Units.
Chapter 3 draws from interview and observational data of BLEAPs to offer a typol-
ogy of different strategy streams used by BLEAPs working in the Third Space, and
considers their trajectories before introducing the three major social processes with
which BLEAPs are constantly engaged. Chapter 4 presents the first of these three
social processes by detailing strategies used in the acquisition of valuable resources,
or ‘Hunting & Gathering’. Chapter 5 studies the need for constant assessment in
order to satisfy stakeholder agendas, which is called ‘Weighing & Measuring’. The
attempt to redefine professional academic identities and activities in order that they
can better fulfill the plans of stakeholders for the modern corporate university, or
‘Molding & Shaping’, is considered in Chap. 6. The final chapter presents the tra-
jectory leading to the core social process of BLEAPs in this theory, which is that of
‘Professional Disarticulation’, before concluding with some of the contributions
and potential applications of this grounded theory to those involved in the task of
teaching EAP in neoliberal universities.
As we proceed to the next chapter, it is my hope that the critical grounded theory
now to be presented will be useful to those in the EAP classroom and in educational
leadership, especially for those who are creating and implementing policies which
affect the future of Tertiary EAP in the twenty-first century. The ensuing discussion
will hopefully provide a meaningful context and greater insight into a social world
that, while having an enormous impact upon the professional lives of TEAPs, is one
to which they rarely, if ever, gain access.
1.6 Structure of This Book
25
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2_2
Chapter 2
EAP in the Third Space
of Neoliberal Universities
2.1 Introduction
The neoliberalization of HE and of Tertiary EAP does not take place within a
vacuum; it is a process that is inextricably linked to a vast network of social, politi-
cal and economic phenomena. In order to more fully contextualize the social pro-
cesses of this critical grounded theory, some of these far-reaching dynamics
changing the nature of EAP in many universities around the world will now be
studied. Beginning first with a broad historical and theoretical discussion of the
resurgence of vocationalism and the steady deconstruction of the Cold War
University of Culture, I will survey the effects of Globalization Massification and
McDonaldization in Higher Education. The nature and intensity of neoliberalism in
different HEIs will be discussed heuristically through a typology of universities that
will enable readers to see which types of ‘neoliberal universities’ contributed to this
theory. From there, the notion of Third Spaces in neoliberal universities will be
reviewed, and near the end of this chapter, the convergence of all of the topics that
have been discussed, together with examples of qualitative data gathered from the
field, will suggest that EAP units, once relocated to the Third Space, are being
inexorably transformed into Student Processing Units (SPUs).
2.2 The Shift to Vocationalism
Vocationalism is couched within the loss of equilibrium between two distinctive
ideological views about the purpose of HE in modern society. One side posits HE
within the scholarly ideals the German philosopher Wilhelm von Humboldt, in
which academics link their research interests to instruction, have autonomy in
deciding how and what to teach, and have a dominant position in university
governance. Privileged learners enter the university through a merit-based system of
26
examinations, and are steeped both in the academic knowledge and cultural ideals
necessary for contributing to the nation-state (Brubacher and Rudy 1976/2008;
Feher 2001). The other side conceives HE as providing both the privileged and
working classes with the knowledge and vocational skills needed for economic
development, for in doing so they can become productive members of society
(O’Toole 1975; Readings 1996; Jarvis 2001; Middlehurst 2001). Today, the relative
balance between these two ideologies has been lost. Cultural models are being
sidelined as outmoded, and the goal has shifted towards producing graduates who
have the mental agility to learn quickly and serve the needs of a global market.
Understanding how this has happened, and how it has influenced the nature of EAP
in neoliberal universities, requires a consideration of issues that first came to promi-
nence during America’s early attempts to develop a form of Higher Education that
would address contemporary needs.
America stimulated a boom in the number of land grant state universities during
the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. These were established to provide
the middle and working classes with greater access to higher education during a
period of rapid industrialization. Battle lines were soon drawn, however, between
Humboltian scholars and university administrators, who had vocational aims. The
strategy of most American state universities was to synthesize the approach adopted
by curriculum designers the University of Wisconsin with the educational philoso-
phy of the president of Cornell University, Andrew Dickson White. White called on
American universities to be completely democratic in order for freedom of thought
and learning to flourish. He advocated a pragmatic balance between the extremes of
Humboldtian scholars, who he labeled as pedants for ‘substitut[ing] dates for his-
tory, gerund-grinding for literature, and formulas for science,’ and the pecuniary
interests of entrepreneurial university regents and administrators, who he attacked
as philistines for seeking to reduce higher education to ‘that which enables a man to
live by his wits and prey upon his neighbors’ (White 1904/2007, p. 326; Brubacher
and Rudy 1976/2008, p. 162). White believed, as did the curriculum designers at the
University of Wisconsin, that university graduates should not only gain practical
vocational skills, they should also receive cultural refinement through a liberal arts
education. In this way, White felt that university graduates would become socially
engaged and maintain democratic ideals in American society (Brubacher and Rudy
1976/2008, pp. 165–167). This treatment of HE was in stark contrast to other coun-
tries at the time, where HE was the purview of the elite and aspirational classes. The
American model for HE was further enhanced during the Cold War, when Higher
Education was recast as one aspect of America’s cultural defense against commu-
nism. The ideals of Western Cultural Humanism served as an ideological basis for
maintaining cultural heritage and national identity against the semiotic ‘other’of the
Eastern Bloc nations, and America sought to export such notions to the higher edu-
cational systems of its allies (Mauk and Oakland 2002, p. 252). In terms of struc-
ture, curriculum planning and governance, theAmerican state university had already
become a template not only for most other HEIs in the US, but also in the develop-
ment of British ‘red brick’ universities (Bryce 1897/2007, pp. 666–693; Trow 1972;
Baber and Linsday 2006, p. 148). In the case of Japan, university educators were
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
27
already emulating a version of the German model fused with Neo-Confucianist
thought throughout the late Meiji era (Jansen and Stone 1967), but during the
American Occupation and afterwards during the Cold War, a synthesis of Japanese,
Humboldtian ideals, and aspects of the American state university model became the
norm for Japanese national universities (Altbach 1989, pp. 17–18; Itoh 2002,
pp. 10–13).
However, the balance between culture and vocational training began to shift
during the 1970s, as the cultural idealization of a democratic nation state gave way
to neoliberal policies favoring the creation of a globalized marketplace society. In
time, the concept of HE as study for making a communitarian contribution to soci-
ety was replaced by a neoliberal concept of HE as a personal investment for private
gain. Cox (1997) explains how this began with the ideological strategy of portraying
Keynesian Welfare State ideals as socialist. Keynesian theory, which dominated
many Western government policies after the Second World War, placed universities,
hospitals and other institutions tasked with the care of the most vulnerable members
of society under the protection of government entities in order to shield them from
market forces. Neoliberals emerging from the School of Economics at the University
of Chicago, under the charismatic leadership of Milton Friedman, attacked such
practices, insisting that the role of the state should be limited solely to ‘protect[ing]
our freedom both from enemies outside our gates and our fellow citizens: to pre-
serve law and order, to enforce private contracts [and] to foster competitive markets’
(Friedman 1962/1982, p. 2). Decades of Keynesian inspired government support
programs for higher education were seen by Friedman and others in the Chicago
School as ‘an unfair interference in the market’ (Klein 2007, pp. 6–7).
As the Cold War came to a close, the real autonomy of many nation-states had
declined rapidly, even as the market value of multinational corporations started to
regularly exceed the GDP of many smaller countries (Miyoshi 1993, p. 728;
Readings 1996, pp. 44–47). Although many of these corporations had historic roots
in the Anglophone world, most sought to shed allegiance to any particular flag, to
ameliorate national borders, and to increase opportunities for profit on a global scale
(Power and Whitty 1999, p. 16; Slaughter and Rhoades 2005, pp. 487–488). After
the fall of the Berlin Wall, it soon became clear that the Cold War policy for ideal-
izing cultural ideals and bolstering a national mythos was counterproductive in the
new era of international economic expansion. Centrist governments both in the UK
and US furthered the conservative economic and educational policies started during
the Reagan-Thatcher years, albeit couched within old Labour and Democratic Party
rhetoric. Divested of their role as the ideological arm of the State and in the face of
ever decreasing public support, universities found the only way they could survive
was to emulate a corporate model driven by neoliberal values. By 2009, the national
average of public support to American state universities has declined to under 35 %,
even as average tuition costs have increased annually by 10 % for several years
(Trombley 2003; OECD 2009). Because the cost of higher education continues to
increase far in excess of the rate of inflation, it is now increasingly common for
working class students or their families to incur huge debts in order pay for tuition.
In order to get a return from this huge investment, students increasingly are choosing
2.2 The Shift to Vocationalism
28
courses in business, technology, or other areas where they hope to gain the qualifica-
tions necessary for landing them a lucrative job after graduation.
Aronowitz (2000, p. 160) describes this trend in American HE as the ‘mad race
toward occupational education.’ His depiction of American HE, while laced with a
tinge of moral outrage, is nevertheless an accurate portrayal of the environments
within which many of the EAP units studied for this theory were located:
[M]any administrations have been forced to transform their faculties into a casual labor
force…and to cut back or eliminate ‘nonessential’ academic programs such as languages,
geography, and linguistics…We have seen how officials scurry to forge alliances with large
donors, offering to dedicate buildings and compromising chunks of the curriculum in return
for financial support. Corporate sponsors and panicked parents and students alike demand
programs oriented to ‘job readiness.’As a result, many schools have succumbed to pressure to
spruce up their placement, or in contemporary parlance, ‘career’ services, introducing voca-
tional courses into the curriculum, and encouraging internships – often coded as ‘experiential’
learning – aimed at inducing employers to hire their graduates (Aronowitz 2000, p. 160).
Similar conditions have spread to HEIs around the world. Government initiatives
in the UK have been underway for several years with the goal of making universities
to both depend upon and to better serve the needs of industry (Attwood 2009).
Japanese HE after 2005 quickly began to mirror changes first seen in the United
States (Butler-Goto and Iino 2005). Even at top-tier universities often seen as pro-
tected from the market pressures, such as The University of Tokyo, factions have
appeared, splitting universities between those who see HE as places for scholarly
exploration, and those who see HE as training for professional development in order
for students to gain lucrative employment opportunities (Nakai 2008; Goodman
2010). HEIs everywhere are discarding the cultural ideals once upheld in nation
states, (such as the notion of democratic governance), in favor of the neoliberal
values, vocational training and authoritarian managerial practices of the type found
in large corporations (Steck 2003, p. 75). The lament of one Teacher of EAP at a
private university reflects conditions that are being experienced in all but the most
elite of Japanese Higher Educational Institutions:
The faculty meeting is not functioning…we just listen to announcements now. There’s no
discussion at all. No sabbatical for us, no research days for us. We have to ask for permis-
sion now for everything we want to do.
The office manager has only the bachelor degree, but now he controls this university.
I am shocked to experience this ill-functioning school. I feel like I have been deceived by
them. Other Japanese faculty members complain a lot behind the curtain, but they do not
say anything publicly. (Informant E-mail Correspondence, January 28, 2009).
Although developments such as these have only recently taken hold within
Japan, they have been a subject of long-standing interest among scholars else-
where, many who have proposed engaging metaphors for describing the changes
taking place in today’s universities. Most famously, Readings (1996, p. 19) por-
trayed the Cold War sponsored ‘University of Culture’ as being slowly decon-
structed, and predicted that it would eventually become like the abandoned ruins of
a past civilization – something that would exist only as an idealized heritage pres-
ervation site at a few prestigious HEIs. Some (Sergiovanni 1986, p. 117; Taylor
1986, 2002) have used Kubler’s (1962/2008, pp. 20, 58) theory of prime objects to
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
29
describe the deconstruction of Higher Education in a creative manner. Kubler
stated that when a prime object (that is, an important idea, invention, institution, or
other replicable item) becomes obsolete, new prime objects are built from a pur-
poseful reconstruction of the very things being supplanted. Like dead stars, the
light of obsolete prime objects may yet shine for a time when viewed from a dis-
tance, but gradually, they will only be known ‘by their perturbations, and by the
immense detritus of derivative stuff left in their paths’ (Kubler 1962/2008, p. 35).
The leftover material feeds the development of new stars, those ‘bright ideas’
breaking forth from the old. In the case of HE, the language of cultural ideals,
humanistic values and a contribution to some archetypal ‘community’ are slowly
emptied of their original meanings to propose new conceptions that are very differ-
ent from the old. Still others have described the changes in HE in terms of coloni-
zation. According this view, HE is appropriated by distant centers of economic
power and administrated locally by representatives of a corporate bureaucracy. The
intellectual, financial and human resources residing HE become the raw material
for fueling the aspirations of a neoliberal elite.
Common to all of these views is an underlying element of consumption, one
where the vocational agenda feeds off of Western humanistic values in order to
further its ideological worldview and propagate the creation of new neoliberal
institutions that will continue the process of hollowing out and transforming HE
from the inside out. Cultural studies departments and culturally oriented EAP
programs still exist but are increasingly being marketed as providing students
with the skills for the global economy. Earlier values are deconstructed as narrow
and outmoded, as can be seen in a typical excerpt from an interview with one
Blended EAP Professional:
I’ve observed and have found that there are various types of teachers and their approaches
and how they approach language acquisition by non-native speakers, and very often, those
people are not merely teaching English as a communication device, but are also teaching
culture as part of that…Some are missionaries. They’re there to take English and [a]
heightened nature of culture to the primitives…it makes the teachers a little uncomfortable
to hear so much native language speaking. So we have lots of strict rules about conduct
and behavior and coming late to class is [a] very, very bad thing. No matter what they do
and however creative it is, that’s still something that they’re trying to do, is they’re trying
to get students to be taking on a culture, rather than having honest conversations about
how they can (long pause) navigate cultural difference. How I can give you a skill that you
need, while maintaining your own cultural identity and giving value to that experience…
EAP teachers should be…able to take people that have a skill-set that is required to be in
this institution…you’ve got students that are coming here for multiple reasons…if you look
at international student movement…about why they leave their home countries to go to
another place, then they’re looking for technical capability of gaining new knowledge. And
usually it’s rare the student that comes to go somewhere and study art (Interview,
November 6, 2008).
The views of a senior teacher in the EAP unit at the same university were also
typical among the TEAPs in this study, and highlights the contrast in beliefs and
worldviews that lead to conflict with those who are reshaping universities along
neoliberal lines:
2.2 The Shift to Vocationalism
30
I often get tired of a thankless administration that does not seem to have a clue about what
I do, to the extent that they apparently think I must twiddle my thumbs at least half of every
day. So why do I keep on? I do it because I am still committed to the idea that language
embodies the culture and highest ideals of a people, and that those ideals cannot be com-
municated between cultures without personal lives coming into contact in positive ways
both in and out of the classroom. I do it because, whether my students are rich or poor, they
have personal goals and aspirations that I can help them achieve in some small way. I do it
because it still excites me to see the light bulb come on and learning take place. In short, I
do it for no really good reason at all except to see somebody get some good out of something
I can (hopefully) give them. After I retire someday, I hope to continue to do the same thing
(but certainly fewer hours), but to do it for people who have no means to pay (Informant
E-mail Interview, December 23, 2008).
The waning of ‘culture’ within the steady growth of vocationalism is an impor-
tant feature in the neoliberalization of HE, which in turn has had a major effect on
developments in EAP, where some are beginning to call for EAP to more explicitly
address the vocational aims of the neoliberal university curricula (Dovey 2006). It
will be seen later how these changes form part of the justification for changing the
preferred mission and professional identities of TEAPs into something that comple-
ments the sociopolitical and economic framework that will now be discussed.
2.3 Sociopolitical and Economic Scaffolding
In addition toVocationalism, three other interconnected dynamics, the Globalization
of HE, Massification and McDonaldization, contribute to the neoliberal transforma-
tion of EAP.
2.3.1 Globalization and Higher Education
Globalization as a concept is highly contested, and a plethora of competing defini-
tions exist (Held et al. 1999, p. 8; Block and Cameron 2002, pp. 2–5). Some have
equated globalization with neoliberalism (Jessop 2002), and while neoliberal poli-
cies and ideology certainly support globalization, my perspective follows Hoogvelt
(2001, pp. 142–143) and globalization theorist Jan Scholte (2004, 2005, 2008) to
view globalization primarily as a sociological experience that carries with it numer-
ous economic and political ramifications. Globalization as a dynamic process
within which societies around the world gradually but deliberately incorporate neo-
liberal policies, practices and economic programs that result in isomorphic systems,
strategies, strengths, and problems. Globalization is the organic coming together not
only of leaders and policymakers, but also of common people operating on the shop
floor levels of society. The social currents of the local combine with the larger
processes taking place simultaneously in other countries that eventually results in
comparable outcomes, first within regions, and then later on a global scale.
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
31
However, what is often referred to as the globalization of HE (King et al. 2011;
e.g. Ennew and Greenaway 2012) is perhaps more accurately described as
the Americanization of HE (e.g. Meek 1991; Smith et al. 2002; Altbach 2004). ‘The
United States is in a position not only to lead in the twenty-first century as
the dominant power,’writes David Rothkopf, a former Clinton advisor and Columbia
University professor of international affairs, ‘but to do so by breaking down the
barriers that divide nations’ (1997, p. 51). He continues:
[I]t is in the economic and political interests of the United States to ensure that if the world
is moving toward a common language, it be English; that if the world is moving toward
common telecommunications, safety, and quality standards, they be American; that if the
world is becoming linked by television, radio, and music, the programming be American;
and that if common values are being developed, they be values with which Americans are
comfortable (Rothkopf 1997, p. 45).
The American State University Model has played a role in fulfilling these
aspirations, and as we have already seen, it has supplanted the university models of
post-colonial powers to become the template for virtually every university system in
the world ( Altbach 1989, p. 11; Barrow 1999, pp. 27–28). Stimulated by mutually
beneficial economic and political interests, as well as a multinational elite influ-
enced by their time at top-tier American universities, HEIs around the world are
conforming to practices and organizational structures that have their template the
developments which took places first in the United States (Kinnell 1989; Tjeldvoll
1996; Stanley and Patrick 1998; Power and Whitty 1999; Welle-Strand 2000; Block
2002; Itoh 2002; Yonezawa 2002; Bocock et al. 2003; Yamamoto 2004; Baber and
Linsday 2006; Hubball and Gold 2007).
While studies of the effects of globalization are both varied and complex, two
points salient to this critical grounded theory should be noted. The first is that the
isomorphic nature of HE as a global institution, rooted as it is inAmerican constructs,
has resulted in striking similarities in institutions across different cultures and coun-
tries (Yang 2003; Meyer et al. 2007). This facilitates a grounded theory approach to
studying social processes in HEIs of different countries. Another is point is that,
contrary to the claims that globalization increases wealth, thus allowing for oppor-
tunities to ascend a new ladder of global class and prestige (e.g. Dollar and Kraay
2002), a significant number of studies conclude that the effect of globalization has
been most damaging to the middle and skilled working classes. Unable to compete
globally, all but the most enterprising descend the new global class ladder to service
sector serfdom and short-term, ‘casual’ labor (Korzeniewicz and Moran 2000;
Alderson and Nielsen 2002; Wade 2004). In terms of the globalization of higher
education, while often marketed as an avenue to higher social status and income,
studies suggest that, as HE becomes more accessible than in any other time in
human history, HEIs are actually limiting social mobility and stratifying all but the
most exceptional graduates into the class in which they were born (Diner 2010;
Kirp 2010; Altbach et al. 2011; Findlay et al. 2012). This second point has
implications for the HEI typology that will be discussed later.
2.3 Sociopolitical and Economic Scaffolding
32
2.3.2 Massification
Increased access to HE relates to massification, which is defined as the phenomenon
in which vast numbers of students, both domestic and international, easily enter
universities with the dream of furthering their vocational prospects and for raising
their social standing (Teichler 1998; Fox 2002; Smeby 2003; Altbach 2004, p. 5;
Guri-Rosenblit et al. 2007). It results in part from what was discussed earlier – a
transition from the communitarian view of HE, where one studies to contribute to
the betterment of society, to that of viewing HE as an instrument of personal
advancement (Kezar 2004).
In its domestic form, massification serves national interests during times of eco-
nomic hardship. However, as Japan has learned following the creation of over 780
universities (Goodman 2010; Relaxed Rules Led to Too Many Universities 2013),
domestic massification is unsustainable. In the United States, even as far back as the
1970s, international students were touted as a new ‘growth industry’ for American
state universities, and as a means for ‘generating considerable income for the
strained budgets of our colleges, universities, and technical schools.’ (Luce and
Smith 1979, p. 6). In the 1990s, a British Council report saw international students
as ‘bring[ing] benefit to Britain by forging closer relations with a new generation in
new circumstances, by increasing the flow of fee-paying students to British univer-
sities …’ (Annual Report 1993, p. 9, in Spolsky 1998, p. 385).
Massification was an important contextual background feature of informant
interviews. For example, with the beginning of the global financial meltdown in
2007, administrative planners at Polaris put forth a plan that would significantly
increase the number of first-year domestic students, but recognizing that more was
needed to meet the financial needs of the university, one informant explained that a
renewed focus would be placed on recruiting international students:
You’ve got 1500 new freshman, and the prospect of getting 1500 more, and growing more,
just in what we’re doing with the domestic side of things, or 20 % over the next five years…
When we start tapping out all the area students, and no one starts coming here anymore,
that’s when international recruitment always gets strong at any school…Make no mistake,
even public institutions are running out of money in the States. Money and profitability are
ongoing things, that’s the overriding trend here… (Interview, October 29, 2007).
According to a recent OECD report (2009), which draws from a UNESCO
statistical study, many countries have followed the US, UK and others by accepting
thousands of primarily Asian students as a means of bolstering their financially
faltering university systems. Paul Ramsden, former chief executive of the UK’s
Higher Education Academy, reported that from 1996 to 2006 the number of interna-
tional students coming to British HEIs, the vast number of them Chinese, increased
by 105 %. Over 40 % of that increase took place between 2000 and 2006 (Ramsden
2008b, pp. 22–23). From 2002 to 2007, fees for international students in the UK
increased by 58 % (Ramsden 2008b, p. 4).
HEIs everywhere are competing heavily for what is commonly referred to as
‘student flows’ (Albrecht 2005; Murphy 2005). University administrative literature
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
33
on international student recruitment uses this term because, according to Bain and
Cummings (2005, p. 19), ‘crossnational student flows represent market flows simi-
lar to freely circulating capital and goods and increased openness in labor markets.’
All of this suggests that international student massification has become a global
phenomenon, and indeed, a global commodity.
2.3.3 McDonaldization
Aggressive competition for international students in HEIs around the world, with its
attendant large class sizes, creates problems for TEAPs wishing to maintain prac-
tices designed for the conditions of earlier pedagogical approaches. Hiring more
teachers is not an option in neoliberal HEIs, as one BLEAP explains:
Informant: [the TEAPs] feel that they are misunderstood. That teaching ESL is a very difficult
situation. ‘There’s only two of us, and we can’t teach a multi-level class.’And so they’ll always
complain about the vagaries of not being able to put together a curriculum, because ‘you
never know what you’re going to get from semester to semester, because we don’t have levels.’
And I say, ‘well, you know, are you willing to go back to part-time, and I’ll hire four instruc-
tors, and we’ll have four levels.’Well, no, no, no, you see, because that… and there’s like…
GH: Well, who wants to go back to part-time?
Informant: Right.
GH: That’s a threat. For them, I’d say.
Informant: But that’s what I’m telling them, because I don’t think we…we’re not going to
be able to secure another $150,000 to hire two more full-time EAP instructors. Plus we
don’t really… you know, [the Dean] looks at it, and goes, ‘I have faculty members that
advise over 200 students, and they teach,’ and he gives the stats, and he goes, ‘And they’re
complaining about 18 students in the class? And only 18 students that they work and advise
with?’And he goes, ‘I don’t care how intense it is, it can’t be…’ and so it’s just a numbers
thing. And that’s from someone that’s never been in the EAP. We know it is more intensive,
but there is still a point where you go, you know…that’s why I think EAP programs stand on
their own in some places, and they operate on their own. They hit it really hard, and they
have huge classes (Interview, October 29, 2007).
Masses of international students require new techniques based on the lessons of
mass production. Ritzer’s (2000, 2002) Theory of McDonaldization draws from
Weberian bureaucratic theory to reveal four cardinal principles that guide organi-
zations focused on mass production – efficiency, calculability, predictability and
control. Efficiency means creating a product with a minimum of labor costs.
Calculability refers to success that is measurable, resulting in a view of quality
inseparable from quantity. Predictability indicates that processes must be conducted
in exactly the same manner everywhere to ensure uniform, measurable quality.
Block (2002, p. 120) adds that Ritzer’s thesis carries within it the idea of
standardization, in that all branches of the corporation should ideally operate exactly
like the other, thereby providing services in the same manner throughout in the
world. Control is the centralization of managerial power so that conformity to the
other three principles is maintained. Over the time of this research, all of the EAP
Units began to develop remarkably similar practices and strategic approaches for
2.3 Sociopolitical and Economic Scaffolding
34
‘processing’ large numbers of students. In tandem with the other socioeconomic
dynamics discussed in this section, McDonaldization is a major feature contributing
to the transformation of EAP Units and their host universities into ‘knowledge
factories’(Deem 2001; Olssen and Peters 2005; Harding et al. 2007; Ishikawa 2009).
2.4 Institutional Manifestations and Emergent Third Spaces
The socioeconomic and political dynamics of neoliberalization vary in the degree to
which manifest themselves in different universities, based in part on the nature of
their funding sources and institutional status (Mok and Lo 2002; Knight 2006).
Universities that host learners from the upper classes of today’s global society tend
to better at sublimating many of the features associated with the neoliberalization of
HE than institutions who receive the majority of their learners from the working and
lower middle classes. The lower a university is on the globally stratified class lad-
der, the more openly aggressive the marketing and promises of vocational success
for graduates, the tighter the management of teaching staff, and the more concen-
trated the effort to produce educational content for mass ‘delivery’. This necessi-
tates a closer look at the types of HEIs encountered in the field so as to consider
some of the finer distinctions around the meaning of the ‘neoliberal’ university. To
do this, I will present an HEI typology developed from my field observations, inter-
views, and later research of Twitchell’s (2004, pp. 132–133) taxonomy, (which
itself was constructed using concepts developed at the National Center for
Postsecondary Improvement at Stanford). This will lead to a discussion of the ‘third
spaces’ created from within universities, as currently these are the environments
within which EAP Units are often located.
2.4.1 Distinguishing Between Universities: An HEI Typology
The model developed for the grounded theory presented in this book frames HEIs
within my earlier discussion of the neoliberal economic ideals of the Chicago
School, as opposed to values often associated with the Keynesian Welfare State
model, and the view of HE as the inculcation of ideals stemming from Western
cultural humanism with its juxtaposition to vocational training for the global econ-
omy. This fosters the emergence of four basic types of HEIs: Sausage Makers, Mass
Providers, Dreamweavers and Ivory Towers (Fig. 2.1).
Sausage Makers derives from imagery found in Marx’s (1887/1990, p. 644)
metaphor of the educational sausage factory, and which is occasionally used in criti-
cal pedagogic discourse (e.g. Smith 2000). These are for-profit ‘convenience’ HEIs
or state HEIs that market themselves to working class and lower middle class learn-
ers. Neoliberalism and the other dynamics discussed in this chapter are most appar-
ent at this level. Teachers are tightly managed, virtually any student who can pay
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
35
tuition is accepted, and the curriculum operates as a well-coordinated Student
Processing Unit (SPU) that trains students for specific vocations or for the service
sector. EAP units are often separate entities run by large corporations, such as
Kaplan in the UK, The University of Phoenix in the US, or Interac in Japan.
Mass Provider HEIs lack prestigious branding or a narrative of exclusivity. They
survive by accepting large numbers of learners and by offering various courses of
study to student customers shopping for marketable credentials. Administrative man-
agement aspires to tighten control over the curriculum, which operates as a fractious
collection of SPUs and bureaucratic networks. There is a constant struggle to manage
educators, who work in often-rebellious and fragmented tribes and who espouse dif-
ferent political, ideological, and pedagogic agendas. Graduates from Mass Providers
are more varied than those successfully finishing Sausage Makers. Most, I believe, are
personally enhanced by their new knowledge and social awareness, but even more
important is that successful graduates are those who have taken the opportunities to
become tooled for service industry and entrepreneurial vocations. EAP units at these
types of universities are typically either separate private organizations of the type that
supply Sausage Makers or auxiliary campus units working under administrative man-
agement. Regardless, fieldwork observations and interviews suggest that EAP Units
in either set of circumstances, while still striving to provide students with the language
and study skills necessary for university entry, have started to take on many aspects
Western
Cultural
Humanism
Vocational
Training
Keynesian
Emphasis
Neoliberal
Emphasis
Sausage
Makers
Dreamweavers
Mass
Providers
Ivory
Towers
Fig. 2.1 Types of higher educational institutions
2.4 Institutional Manifestations and Emergent Third Spaces
36
of a service model providing a wide range of educational experiences in order to
maintain international student retention rates, and to foster what is believed to be an
enjoyable, active environment for language study.
Dreamweaver HEIs have historic ‘brand recognition’, but beyond the public
perception of the HEI as ‘good’ or ‘prestigious’, few people know why. Many of
these HEIs have adopted neoliberal values, but publically, they maintain a narrative
which highlights their history, character, social status, and contributions to society.
Privately, the agendas of outside stakeholders tied to corporate interests are dis-
creetly addressed, but are repackaged to fit within the mythos of the HEI. The
dynamics related to the curriculum and faculty often share similarities with Mass
Providers, since newer neoliberal policies are placed on top of older educational
traditions which, as seen earlier in this chapter, result in conflict and contradictory
practices (Castree and Sparke 2000; Steck 2003; Yamamoto 2004). SPUs at these
universities are usually more loosely coordinated, and often still feature cottage indus-
try practices. Greater variety both of approaches and of teacher autonomy are often
seen in the classroom. The actual quality of the education received by learners may
not differ much from what is offered at Mass Providers, though the prestige of the
HEI may provide graduates with better employment opportunities. EAP Units are
sometimes still an auxiliary wing of an academic department at these universities,
though during fieldwork, this was observed as becoming increasingly rare. Because
these universities tend to bring in students with higher levels of language and
academic proficiency, the focus is less upon educational experiences and more
upon raising the scholastic proficiency of the students to a level where they can
participate more fully in social and academic life of the university.
Ivory Towers can be top-tier HEIs that either have maintained or have been allowed
to uphold classic traditions of research and national cultural ideals. Cozy ‘boutique’
HEIs of a nominal ranking can also exhibit fewer visible features of neoliberalism if,
as in the example of some private or religious HEIs, they have major stores of financial
sustenance to preserve their historic ideals and educational traditions. Nevertheless,
even at the most conservative and prestigious private universities, such as those in
Japan, fulsome financial flows tend only to slow, but not halt, the steady transforma-
tion of institution (Miyoshi 2000;Yamamoto 2004;Amano and Poole 2005;Yonezawa
2007; Yamanoi 2008). While these rare institutions are not immune from the chal-
lenge of neoliberalism experienced more acutely at other HEIs, the experience at
Ivory Towers is comparatively lighter, as they have the intrinsic value of their brand to
attract the best that the world has to offer. Teacher autonomy is highest at these
schools, and in comparison to other universities in this typology, the administration
tends to serve in a more supportive role. The curriculum is still largely determined by
groups of qualified educators. EAP students are relatively fewer at Ivory Towers, since
most are already proficient in English. EAP programs at these universities can be
found either in university language centers or linguistics departments, where the focus
is more upon high level research and writing skills, as well as in critical thinking skills
for enriching the students’ understanding of the academic culture.
The visual representation of this typology helps to clarify, in theoretical terms,
the processes that lead to differing levels of neoliberalization in universities.
However, it should be seen as a general guide only, because it does not adequately
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
37
display the potential for organizational change, and only hints at the process of
hybridization experienced by HEIs located along the borders of the four quadrants.
Such movement between quadrants and hybridization was certainly observed, but in
line with socioeconomic tendencies observed in globalization, all of the shifts were
to quadrants further down the class ladder, to conditions where greater degrees of
neoliberal practice and governance flourished. For example, one Ivory Tower in
Japan shifted to a Dreamweaver status. The University of Wensleydale, a
Dreamweaver at the beginning of this research, shifted to a Mass Provider and
NUGIS, which once operated as a Mass Provider, has since shifted to that of a
Sausage Maker. An example of hybridization was observed at an Ivory Tower HEI
in the UK, where certain colleges and auxiliary campus services (including their
Language Center) became increasingly neoliberal and were encouraged to engage
in various forms of mass provision, while other prestigious colleges and depart-
ments traditionally associated with the upper classes were shielded from such
dynamics and allowed to maintain their organizational culture and status quo.
Hybridization represents a sideways move to stave off the inevitability of neoliberal
policies spreading to other parts of the institution. In seven years of fieldwork, there
was never an instance in which an HEI moved to a higher status or towards condi-
tions where neoliberal forms of governance were reduced.
One final point before proceeding to the next section is that, while I spent one year
of residence at an Ivory Tower HEI, most of the interview data collected for this
research focused upon Mass Provider HEIs, such as state universities in the United
States, Red Brick and Post-1992 universities in the UK. In Japan, this included
national universities undergoing changes that made them more corporate in nature,
and private four year colleges. This critical grounded theory on EAP in neoliberal
universities and the current discussion of SPUs, therefore, pertains mostly to institu-
tions such as these. This does not limit the significance of this study, however, since
such Mass Providers educate approximately eighty percent of the students in the
United States (Brubacher and Rudy 1976/2008, p. 170; Donoghue 2008, p. 121) and
as in other countries elsewhere, they represent ‘hundreds of schools enrolling
millions of students granting diplomas in factory fashion…[s]econd-tier state
universities and perpetually anxious private schools keep one eye on the bottom line
and the other eye on generating flow-through’ (Twitchell 2004, p. 133).
2.4.2 Enter the Third Space
Universities have been traditionally seen binary organizations, with professional
roles and functions clearly separated along administrative and scholarly/pedagogi-
cal lines. However, the ruptures created by the contextual factors discussed in this
chapter have resulted in the emergence of organizational Third Spaces (Whitchurch
2008). What Slaughter and Rhoades (2004) call ‘interstitial units’, Third Spaces are
the unbound ‘creative commons’(Taylor 2008) that serve as the incubators of entre-
preneurial initiatives in Higher Educational Institutions.
The Third Space model developed by Whitchurch is exquisitely detailed and
helps to clarify the multiple bureaucratic agencies affecting British and Australian
2.4 Institutional Manifestations and Emergent Third Spaces
38
HE. It is especially suited for understanding the specific forces behind initiatives
dedicated to notions of Excellence, Quality, and Service Learning. My description
of the Third Space, however, is grounded in the convergence of the dynamics dis-
cussed so far, all of which were underlying themes during fieldwork interviews. It
adopts a broader perspective of issues affecting Tertiary EAP units (Fig. 2.2). In this
model, the Third Spaces emerges from within the restive interaction of multiple
agencies and conflicting demands, which metaphorically take the form of two vor-
tices. One twists down from the administrative realm, and adopts a role viewed by
outsiders as an authoritarian center of Command & Control, while the other swirls
upward from the expectations of students from a new age of massification. At the
far ends of both vortices are come the agendas outside stakeholders, corporate
industries and government bodies overlooking Command & Control, who
themselves are influenced by the ongoing changes taking place in society due to
Globalization, Vocationalism, Massification, and McDonaldization.
Initiatives handed down by technocrats in Command & Control are funneled
down to lower regions of the university. In the context of the EAP, the bottom vortex
represents the growing numbers of international students that have been recruited
Fig. 2.2 Third space factors influencing EAP in neoliberal HEIs
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
39
from abroad, and often arrive with social, emotional and academic challenges in
addition to the expected linguistic issues.
The place where the vortices meet is the Center of Praxis. I am well aware that
the concept of praxis for critical theorists represents an emancipatory activity result-
ing in open discourse and democratic interaction (Lather 1986; Cushman 1999;
Brockbank and McGill 2007). This, however, is not the experience of most who
participated in this study. Praxis in this theory relates more to theAristotelian mean-
ing of ‘doing action’(Carr 1998, p. 175), or what Grounded Theorists Simmons and
Gregory (2003) have called grounded action, involving an acceptance of life as it is
– not as it should be. It represents a third space convergence of the sociopolitical and
economic phenomena, agendas, the concerns of Command & Control, and the
demands of international student masses. It is here that antiquated cultural learning
is torn apart and twenty-first century vocational training is reconstituted. As such,
the Center of Praxis is a site both of innovative creation and cultural chaos, of grand
displays of authoritarian power and often-futile resistance.
2.5 Reconstructing EAP into Student
Processing Units (SPUs)
During my seven years of fieldwork, I witnessed several EAP Units become divested
of their scholarly status, relegated to the Third Space, and redefined as auxiliary
educational service providers. Once placed in the Third Space of neoliberal uni-
versities, the EAP Unit would undergo the painful process of becoming a Student
Processing Unit. Distinct from the teaching units that were common 20 years ago,
where a relatively small number of language learners were instructed by groups
of autonomous educators, SPUs utilize pedagogic and bureaucratic processes that
provide academic training, remedial learning, and other educational experiences
for large numbers of students. SPUs do this with a minimum cost to the HEI
using a curriculum that taught by as small a number of ‘operators’ as possible.
As operators of this abstract machine, TEAPs use the same sets of prepackaged
materials for all their learning objectives, and are discouraged from creating their
own materials or from critically analyzing the lesson content. The focus is upon
production, processing, quality, and the cost-effective delivery of knowledge
content to student consumers. In this environment, Allman (2001, p. 71) states
that teachers:
…are no longer educationalists – professional educators – but technicians whose intellec-
tual and creative skills have been incorporated into learning packages the consumption of
which they now only disseminate, manage and assess.
The effects of these changes on teacher identity will be considered in a later
chapter. However, the transformation of EAP Units into Student Processing Units
complements Gareth Morgan’s (1997, pp. 12–13) description of the Organization
as Machine, a notion which has comparisons to the depiction of Mass Providers
2.5 Reconstructing EAP into Student Processing Units (SPUs)
40
HEIs as pedagogic factories (Giroux 1988, p. 12; Aronowitz 2000). Mintzberg
(1989, p. 110) has also noted the emergence of ‘machine organizations’, which
standardize work processes within larger technostructures, and I have already
discussed sociologist George Ritzer’s (2000, pp. 12–15) theory of McDonaldization.
In Third Space environments, all of these dynamics work together to create EAP
Units which are increasingly McDonaldized; instruction and students become
products that should be rapidly manufactured in a uniform manner, regardless of
person or place. EAP is then capable of supporting other programs that provide
similar course delivery systems for HEI, as can be seen, for example, in the com-
ments of Jack Lohmann, who was speaking as the vice provost for international
development at Georgia Institute of Technology, and the developer of the univer-
sity’s International Plan (IP). Seeing his university as ‘an entrepreneurial place,’ he
framed a number of administrative-driven educational programs set up in China,
Singapore and India as thus:
What we’d like to do is to offer Georgia Tech’s education and research programs globally
and the product you get is the same, no matter where you get it, anywhere in the world, just
like buying a Coca Cola (Connell 2007c, p. 40).
Turning education into replicable products requires constant surveillance and
control, features of what Deem (2001) has called the ‘new managerialism’. It sup-
ports the creation mechanistic models for mass student processing, and by default,
works to redefine the role of TEAPs in the classroom.
2.5.1 From Collegiality to Command & Control
In stark contrast to the narrative of informal collaboration, communal problem
solving, and learning from each other to improve as teachers, TEAPs are surprised
to learn that administrative initiatives, which take time away from time once spent
in class preparation, now take priority. In addition, many who have never taught
tertiary level EAP begin handing down prescriptions for preferred pedagogical
practice:
Informant: …I mean increasingly we’re having to do a lot more administration, which is
coming down from on high.
GH: Coming down from on high - that’s an interesting way of saying it.
Informant: Well, top down, yeah, what I regard as top down anyway.
GH: But in terms of that, first of all who are the people on high that are bringing it down to you?
Informant: Well it’s really the whole of the administration. There’s been a culture change
in the university since I’ve been there, and I’ve been there quite a long time, whereby
administration in general was there to serve the academic staff. I’m talking generally about
the university as a whole now. And now it’s really there’s been this sort of shift, I suppose
as the university has got more run like a business there’s been this shift whereby the admin-
istration basically have the power to make decisions and in a sense it’s not … they do sup-
port staff, but that has subtly changed. It used to be the academics making the decisions,
and I agree that wasn’t always good, but they used to have much more power and control
than they have now, and the whole thing’s shifted. So you get these decisions from on high
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
41
about how you should operate, how you should teach, how you should evaluate, all sorts of
things (Interview, October 31, 2008).
TEAPs learn that in the Third Space, theirs is not to interact in a collaborative
manner, but to follow orders and accomplish administrative objectives. This realiza-
tion often results in a loss of motivation and in feelings of marginalization:
Informant: I don’t need to think about administration, because we are so out of the loop.
You know, even if you go to something where the administrators are, you know…we’re a
little bit dismissed.
GH: Dismissed?
Informant: You know, and I always get the feeling is that they don’t want to deal with us.
Well, I think part of the problem, you know there is a chain of command. So you know,
really, we need to go to [name redacted], and [name redacted] needs to go up and up and
up, but you know, in our experience, going to the chain of command never works.
GH: Why not?
Informant: Because there’s too many people, and the ball always gets dropped, because
we’re unimportant.You know…somebody loses, and usually it’s going to end up being us or
our students (Interview, November 6, 2008).
This isolation and loss of collegiality also breeds quiet, yet fearful resentment,
as found in Burden’s (2010b) study of metaphors used by TEAPs in Japanese HEIs
to describe their new administrative managers. Frequently referred to as ‘big
cheeses and groups of little men who form nameless committees and get together in
darkened rooms’ (Burden 2010c, p. 11), the image is one of a despised aristoc-
racy – those who command and control at their pleasure with little regard for those
below them.
2.5.2 Mechanistic Models
EAP Units must not only deal with the multiple demands of Command & Control,
massification means that they must also find ways to address the increasing numbers
of international students flowing up into their classrooms. It is both by design and
necessity that Tertiary EAP units have been transformed metaphorically from that
of an artists’studio or craftsman’s workshop to something more akin to a pedagogic
manufacturing center of the knowledge economy (Harding et al. 2007).
To keep their HEIs fiscally sound, many HEI administrative managers from
the late 1980s adopted aspects of the manufacturing industry’s Total Quality
Management (TQM), Six Sigma or Continuous Quality Improvement (Hubbard
1993; Chen et al. 2006). Versions of TQM, originally invented in America by
W. Edwards Deming, but perfected later in the Japanese automotive industry by
engineer and management guru Gennichi Taguchi (Taguchi et al. 1989; Coate 1993;
Koch and Fisher 1998; McKenzie and Scheurich 2004; Hoecht 2006), were observed
as being used the operating software for ‘processing’ students. Processing in this
case, according to Sahney et al. (2004, p. 152) and Divoky and Taylor (1996, p. 174)
means conducting regular and repeatable series of operations that result in specific
training and/or accelerated learning outcomes.
2.5 Reconstructing EAP into Student Processing Units (SPUs)
42
These concepts, and how they come together to transform Tertiary EAP into
SPUs, are illustrated in one excerpt in an interview with senior administrator who
had a background in linguistics, and who had taught EAP for several years in Asia.
The following is within the context of his vision for EAP at his university:
Informant: …acceleration of learning is another. Optimizing the process. The simplest way
to accelerate learning… the biggest payback is to figure out ways to strip out the time that
people spend listening to something they already know.
GH: Right.
Informant: But once you focus on that issue, and say…I’m working with this group of
students to try to get them up to where the others are, then the others are just hearing stuff
they know. Is there some way to optimize their time so that they’re not wasting time on
things they already know?
GH: So these things could be plugged into the language teaching curriculum then?
Informant: Yeah. The… the Taguchi model, a Japanese guy, what I learned from him on design
is you always try to design the system around the variables you can’t control. You have no
control over the entry-level skills that the students bring into your class…that’s a function of
what they learned in the past, and maybe even their genetic make-up, etc. A whole bunch of
variables, but what you get is what you’ve got. Here they are. Now, what can you do to
design your… your course to be indifferent as possible to those entry-level skills, and his
model… and… and this was engineering model, his great success story, occurred in the
United States, not in Japan. It was a plain paper copier, where he said, okay, you have an
operating window here, and then you have two extremes. One extreme is the copier jams, the
other one is that multiple pages go through. And we designed this to be indifferent to the
paper we put in it as much as possible. Before, you had to have special paper. Remember that
stuff that smelled and all that?
GH: Yeah, it was the mimeograph machine.
Informant: Right, and he worked to design a machine. The Xerox machine was the first plain
paper copier where you could stick almost anything in it…So I brought that concept back
after I’d had a meeting with him. I was a speaker at a banquet, and he was the instructor
for the International Association of Engineers on design, and I just called a group of faculty
together and said, ‘Here’s a concept. Apply it’(Interview, November 30, 2008).
Similar developments have taken place in Japan over the past few years within the
unprecedented links being developed between Japanese universities and industry. In
order to ensure a higher level of quality in education, many universities have started
to apply the standards and processes laid out by the Japan Accreditation Board for
Engineering Education (JABEE), which was formed in 1999 to facilitate collabora-
tion and common standards between industry and education (JABEE Website 2007).
Japanese university administrators are responsible for overseeing that these new
industrial processes are ensuring quality, efficiency, and satisfying the quantitative
external assessment of university programs (Woolgar 2007; Kitagawa 2009; Mulvey
2010). Similar to British and American HEIs, the discourse of ‘quality’ and ‘excel-
lence’ is becoming more frequent, and is often used to justify whatever new rule or
missive handed down from on high (Yonezawa 2002; Kitagawa and Oba 2010).
Within these changes, however, TEAPs in Japan struggle to apply engineering stan-
dards of quality to the art of language instruction (Nevara 2004).
The pressure in neoliberal universities on EAP teachers to follow standardized
procedures engineered to maximize processes eventually molds TEAPs into the tech-
nical operators of Student Processing Units. Set materials are provided to the smallest
2 EAP in the Third Space of Neoliberal Universities
43
number of teachers possible, and taught repetitive cycles for rapidly processing
students (Yoshida 1994). As student numbers and administrative demands to provide
more services increase, mechanical measures are chosen rather than hiring more
teachers. Self-Access Language Centers (SALCs) offering Computer Assisted
Language Learning (CALL) is one example of this trend. Described as ‘third space’
environments (Liaw 2007), these have been appearing at many Japanese HEIs to
provide an economical self-service function, in that students can access CALL at any
time to receive automated, prepackaged language material delivered without the
presence of a teacher (Warschauer and Healey 1998; Brierley and Orlandini 2010).
A further extension of this can be seen in South Korea, where 30 English-teaching
robots are being trialed in elementary schools. Representing some of the more fraught
aspects of globalization, these robots have the avatar of a blond-haired Caucasian
woman, and are remote-controlled from a call center in the Philippines. Cheaply paid
teachers conduct lessons via a high-speed Internet link. Although these pedagogic
drones are designed for rural areas where people still fear and shun foreign language
teachers, one administrative official in the education department jokingly expressed
his hope that more of such robots could be utilized in the future, since they ‘won’t
complain about health insurance, sick leave and severance package, or leave in three
months for a better-paying job in Japan…all you need is a repair and upgrade every
once in a while’ (South Korea School Gets Robot English Teachers 2010). Far from
being simply the curious behavior of zealous xenophobes, examples of this develop-
ing trend can be seen in England, with the University of Birmingham’s recent
announcement of a collaborative project with a European technology firm to create
robots designed not only to assist teachers in the classroom, but also to teach learners
on a variety of subjects in a gentle and empathetic manner (Chapple 2014).
2.6 Chapter Summary
Grounded Theorists have been criticized in the past for failing to adequately explain
the conditions and concepts informing their theories. This chapter has attempted to
address such concerns. By starting from the wide panorama of social, political and
economic issues affecting EAP in Higher Education, and then by progressively
tightened the focus to EAP in the Third Space of neoliberal Mass Provider HEIs, it
is hoped that readers involved in the task of EAP can comparatively consider the
environments described here with their own pedagogical venues and thereby better
appreciate the dynamics affecting their profession.
Placed within the crucible of neoliberalized Third Spaces, many of the TEAPs
interviewed saw part of their mission as engaging in a twilight struggle against the
corruption of democracy and the loss of academic freedom. However, others with a
more entrepreneurial spirit saw life in the Center of Praxis as a place where new
opportunities could abound. Out of this smaller group of TEAPs emerged those who
would become Blended EAP Professionals. It is to this group that we will now turn
our attention.
2.6 Chapter Summary
45
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2_3
Chapter 3
The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
3.1 Introduction
The glue holding together conflicting concerns and agendas, and tasked with
maintaining EAP Units as machine-like SPUs, Blended EAP Professionals are an
important but understudied aspect of English for Academic Purposes. This chapter
surveys a number of key theoretical aspects related to BLEAPs. Drawing from
multiple academic sources and qualitative field data, attention will be given to
their uncertain professional identities, a profile of BLEAP field strategies, and
typical trajectories.
3.2 Blended Ambiguity
Various gradations of Blended EAP Professionals exist, ranging from former senior
TEAPs fiercely holding on to their preferred professional identity as language edu-
cators, to those who find themselves in a place that is increasingly distant from
teaching, and where they must struggle to manage all manner of interpersonal con-
flict within their restless EAP units, often without any of the positional power or
structural support usually afforded to those in supervisory positions. Identity is one
measure by which one can determine the difference between BLEAPs and TEAPs.
TEAPs in neoliberal HEIs also work within the ambiguity of the third space of the
Center of Praxis, but they tend to have strong professional identities:
GH: Well, so…I’m surprised. You, you said that you guys are considered administrative
staff? You’re not considered, like faculty?
Informant: Right, yeah.
GH: Wow. I didn’t know that.
Informant: Mm-hm.
GH: So, what…do you consider yourselves then? Teachers, or administrators?
Informant: We’re teachers but we have to be here eight to five…every day that the…school
is open. And, of course, because we’re teachers, then we also, outside of those eight to five
46
hours…whatever doesn’t get done within eight to five always is done even if it takes, fifty
hours, sixty hours, whatever it takes, we have to do it (Interview, November 20, 2005).
Another TEAP expands upon these points:
Yes, it is true that EAP teachers are viewed as administrative staff. That is our official des-
ignation. The EAP Program used to be positioned in Modern Languages, and then it was
moved to the English Department. Now, precisely because we do not offer classes for credit,
it was decided that we are not an academic program and therefore should be located under
Student Affairs, somewhat like the TDC [Talent Development Center]. Despite being shuf-
fled around from place to place administratively, what we do in the classroom has not
changed…I wish that I were given full faculty status and fully recognized for my education
and background. I wish that I could pursue professional development like other faculty and
staff. But these things are not to be, [a]nd it probably goes back to the general lack of
respect for ESOL educator--after all ‘anyone can teach English if they can speak it,’right?
On a good day, it doesn’t really matter to me what the administration thinks; I just go on
doing my job. On a bad day, I tell my husband that I’d rather work for Wal-Mart. I’ve worked
here for 12 years now, so I guess the good days have outnumbered the bad. I don’t get my
professional self-identity from what the administration thinks (Informant E-Mail Interview,
August 5, 2008).
The role ambiguity experienced by BLEAPs, however, suggests one of process
and flux. Even though Blended EAP Professionals often started as TEAPs, in their
present position, they are seen neither as authentic TEAPs, nor as full members of
administrative management or as tenured faculty. Living in the Third Space means
inhabiting the spaces existing between organizational structures and traditional
roles. This also means that BLEAPs rarely gain the support of a mentor within the
organization, since they fit neither here nor there. Left to their own devices, they
struggle to define their professional self-identity:
GH: Let me ask you, um, how do you see yourself in terms of role? Uh, an administrator, a
teacher, a student…how do you define yourself?
Informant: Me?
GH: Yeah.
Informant: Mmm. A salad (laughs)
GH: (laughs) A salad?
Informant: (laughing, then serious) No, I…I guess I see myself as, I don’t know, I’ve never
thought of it in those terms…(Interview, November 28, 2005).
BLEAPs often use metaphors of being on the periphery, as one who doesn’t fit in
until needed for important tasks:
Informant: I am on the edge…not in the middle…unless you talk of my conscience.
GH: What do you mean?
Informant: Well I play a key part in things but I am status wise am someone who is put in
the corner…I am like a ghost really, and I would just like to be a teacher-academic…I’m
tired of the politics.
GH: What are you now? Administrator? Teacher? Both?
Informant: Yes I would say teacher administrative researcher and politician…salesman too.
GH: What are you selling as a salesman?
Informant: Profit, success, guarantees…promises --
GH: – To students or the school?
Informant: Both…expertise…I know what needs to be done, and I feel that I can deliver
with the right support…but you are also gambling and hedging. A player…I am a player.
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
47
You may say stakeholder, but in the game of reform, you are a player. You want to change
things so you need to at times disrupt and bluff…and gamble. ‘Ok give me this much money
and the classes to do this and I will deliver this…’
GH: You are an entrepreneur for the school, then?
Informant: Yes that would be a good term…part of it.
GH: Invest in me, and I’ll turn a profit for you?
Informant: Yes. That is how things are done with administrators…deals…
GH: You were saying you felt like a ghost. Being a ghost is a lonely experience, I would think.
Informant: You are isolated but have a certain amount of freedom…the court jester.
GH: The court jester. An interesting term!! How can an entrepreneurial player who is a
salesman for the university…a politician and researcher…also be a jester?
Informant: In the craziness of things my comments reveal a clearer picture than
Japanese can’t admit or say…you call things the way you see them and people think it
is offensive or just untrue…but actually you see that it brings some change…but Greg
as you can see from all my metaphors I really don’t know what I am (Interview,
October 8, 2009).
3.3 Life as a BLEAP
The BLEAP trajectory has many points of transition that are remarkably similar,
and distinctive types of BLEAP strategies also emerge. This brings with it certain
pitfalls and responsibilities as BLEAPs search for ways to thrive in the often restless
Center of Praxis.
3.3.1 Becoming a BLEAP
BLEAPs share a range of similarities and life experiences. Most have lived abroad
for several years. Most are males who have learned to thrive in their university’s
environment of authoritarian paternalism. On the point of gender, only a few females
successfully went head to head with men for BLEAP positions in their Tertiary EAP
units. The authoritarian paternalist aspects of the neoliberal HEI relegates most
women to subordinate TEAP or TEAP-like positions, with some being passed over
in favor of younger men:
Informant: And, you know, you get some personal things there, and she applied for my job,
and I won, and you know, so…
GH: Mmm.
Informant: …I think that she’s got some…
GH: …issues, personal…
Informant: …just that it’s the old boys club. And she mentioned that a long time ago when
I was a, a…uh…when I was a GA. And that it was hard for her husband to get a job here,
because he wasn’t a drinking buddy of someone or something…so she mentioned that at
work…and I’m sure she feels that’s how I’ve gotten my job, but I’m not a part of any secret
club that, you know...
GH: (laughs)
3.3 Life as a BLEAP
48
Informant: …in the basement of [the President’s] house, or anything you go to, I mean…
but I, you know, you know…in a personable way, personable white guys probably get
their way here…especially if they’ve got personal connections…you know (Interview,
November 28, 2005).
BLEAPs are typically multilingual, multicultural, and accustomed to living in
the spaces between traditional cultural roles. Life abroad for many years has
equipped them for working within the ambiguous gaps of organizational hierar-
chies. Transience is one of the defining factors of their lives, which is why many
tend to lead a solitary existence, even when married. Virtually all of my married
informants had partners who were foreign nationals, though a few had partners from
the same nationality who they met while abroad.
Informant narratives about the ‘becoming stage’ of their development were
remarkably similar. All had an international encounter during a formative time in
their youth, such as making a friend from another country or having an experience
of wonderment while travelling abroad for the first time. Most spoke of having an
abortive start in another career before ‘falling into’ EAP. In addition, most came to
the realization that their lives as TEAPs, while enjoyable in many respects, were
financially unstable as well as physically and emotionally demanding. All recog-
nized that they would not be able to keep up the pace as a TEAP, and in order to ‘get
on’, most began to engage in ambitious activities that they hoped would help them
get a more stable and better paying position. Their behavior at this stage featured
activities such as improving their professional credentials, publishing research
papers, attending conferences, and networking with influential university gatekeep-
ers.A few BLEAPs, did not engage in such ‘upwardly mobile’activities, but because
of their skill as a teachers, their popularity with students, or because of their senior-
ity amongst the other educators, they were noticed by someone in HEI management,
were groomed for a period of time, and then they were ‘raised up’ to become a
BLEAP. Informants from in this trajectory accepted the post mainly for the money
and potential for permanence.
Many BLEAPs were on short-term contracts that were contingent upon demon-
strated success in their post. In Japan, however, some (but not all) BLEAPs
had more secure positions than TEAPs, in that they had either tenured posts or
multiple contracts. However, even though they may have appeared powerful to
TEAPs, the BLEAPs still worked within the tenuous Third Space between TEAPs
and university management, where they often struggled with having a diminished
status among members of Command & Control. Regardless of the degree of job
stability among BLEAP informants, all felt as if they were as expendable as the
proverbial jester in the court of a despotic king. Were they to fail to meet certain
expectations from above, most expressed the fear that they would soon be looking
for another job. Therefore, despite the humorous overtones of the acronym ‘BLEAP’,
it adequately sums up the nature of their standing both with TEAPs and Command
& Control. Much in the way one from the Other Ranks receives a battlefield promo-
tion, survival as a BLEAP is always viewed as uncertain, unless and until one learns
how to negotiate the perilous political battlefield of the Center of Praxis.
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
49
3.3.2 Typical Tasks
BLEAPs are ensconced deep within the heart of Student Processing Units. Where
these do not exist, they create them under the guise of EAP curriculum design. On
a daily basis, BLEAPs spend a considerable amount of their time ensuring that the
SPU starts up every morning and runs smoothly throughout the day.
GH: …just so I can understand your world as the coordinator. If you came, if you went back
from doing the EAP program one day and you thought, ‘oh, this was a good day.’ What
would be a good day for you?
Informant: On a good day nothing would happen and everything would work. And the
routine was…you’d go round at 8:30 and check the doors are unlocked, and they were all
unlocked, all the teachers…
GH: …Were there…
Informant: … were there, yeah. Nobody got run over… everything started on time… and
everything ran smoothly. It was basically when I didn’t notice anything…and that’s as good
as it gets, just that if everything works the way you plan it.
GH: Then I can, I suppose I can assume then there are bad days when something goes out
of kilter and everything falls, everything gets up…
Informant: …no it doesn’t make it a bad day…if one thing goes haywire that’s fine, it’s
when more than one thing goes wrong in the same time. Which wouldn’t be a day, you know
you can deal with more than one thing in a day. But if there’s more than one thing goes
wrong, like for example, the learning centre mechanics all broke down…
GH: …Right…
Informant: So that sets everything off, so then maybe the lecturer didn’t turn up…
GH: …yeah, and suddenly you have to make something for…
Informant: Yeah, but again that doesn’t make it a bad day because you can deal with all of
those things. And because of the teachers we had were the sorts that just try and get round
problems, rather than just stopping and shouting about it…that sort of thing didn’t cause a
bad day. It was just the fact that maybe two or three things happened all at once and, there
wasn’t anybody there…in order to do…
GH: …to do the program…
Informant: … to fix things (Interview, September 22, 2006).
These tasks are vitally connected to higher priorities and social processes that will
be introduced near the end of this chapter. In subsequent chapters, it will be seen that
BLEAPs are not only tasked with maintaining these processes, they are also respon-
sible for defusing conflict in the Center of Praxis so that TEAPs do not cause SPU
slowdowns. BLEAPs span the divide between HEI management and their foreign or
casual TEAPs, and at the same time, often must maintain international partnerships
with foreign HEIs that host overseas programs or other programs of study.
BLEAPs are pivotal to the success of EAP units in neoliberal HEIs. More (1962,
p. 220) notes that in authoritarian organizations, the gap between management and
groups of workers is quite large. BLEAPs are vital for negotiating that divide
and for keeping the EAP unit operative. One informant, who had been both a TEAP
and BLEAP before becoming an academic in a university business department, saw
BLEAPs as a type of an intercultural middle manager among university organiza-
tional subcultures, explaining:
3.3 Life as a BLEAP
50
…[they] are the only people that really know what’s going on, because they’re so well
connected with, if you like, the shop-floor…the nitty-gritty of the work, and if you take them
out you lose an incredible amount of knowledge, an incredible amount of knowhow, a tre-
mendous lot of networks which are absolutely crucial to the organization…So it’s quite
interesting because the role of the middle manager in an organization is very important and
it’s very neglected and it’s very overlooked. Too often they’re seen as just conveyor belts of
what the people at the top want, but if you’ve got any sense you listen to people in the
middle because they know what’s going on. They know much better what’s going on than
the people at the top (Interview, September 30, 2010).
3.3.3 Types and Trajectories
Three basic types of BLEAPs emerged from my analysis of the qualitative data for
this study: Upwardly Mobile, Transactional and Sinking (Fig. 3.1). Before explain-
ing these in greater detail, however, a couple of points should be made. First, it
should be emphasized from the onset that the upcoming representations, while
grounded in field observations and interviews, should be understood in a manner
similar to that of viewing a presentation of primary colors on a palate. The second
point is that while I have, for the sake of clarity, chosen to present BLEAPs as a
typology of people, it perhaps would be equally helpful to characterize each of the
BLEAP types as a collected set of standard strategies, which are constantly affected
Fig. 3.1 A BLEAP typology of strategies
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
51
by a combination of the internal disposition and motivations of the BLEAP, and the
external conditions affecting the Third Space. If political, economic, interpersonal
or emotional conditions change for the BLEAP, he or she could shift from, for exam-
ple, Upwardly Mobile to transactional strategies, or a combination of the two.
Another BLEAP who engages primarily in sinking strategies could also modulate
between transactional strategies at times. There will always be gradations in typolo-
gies, and this should be remembered as we now study each of the BLEAPs in their
prototypical form.
3.3.4 Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs
This type of BLEAP understands the precarious nature of living in the Third Space,
and seeks entry into what appear to be the stable, lucrative posts of Command &
Control. Their focus is on what is above and how to get there, which entails cooper-
ating in whatever activities, agendas, and projects that are valued by those who have
the power to get the BLEAP out of the Center of Praxis. None of the Upwardly
Mobile BLEAPs encountered in this study sought entry to the academic realms of
Command & Control. The prize was administrative power, which is where they felt
they had the greatest chance of career success:
Informant: I think a lot of teachers don’t realize that you need to play business and poli-
tics…and how to manage people. Most of the young guys I tell them this: ‘You need to know
that game ‘cause if you get a job full-time you will being doing a job like me unless you are
a super academic.’
GH: This is the game that must be played in universities these days?
Informant: Yes.
GH: Yeah. I see.
Informant: We aren’t academics…that is what people get confused with.
GH: We are....?
Informant: Our job for most of us is to manage and grow the business. Education is part
of that…but that is how we add value to the uni, unless you can write a lot of books and
students come to study under you. Schools that can attract a number of elite academics can
survive that way, but for most of us we have to add value by building the business…you add
value to yourself by adding value to the uni…
GH: Yes, I do see a number of EAP teachers who have ‘moved up’to positions such as yours
put a lot of energy into growing the university business. But, I don’t see a lot of Upwardly
Mobile EAP teachers trying to become famous academics by publishing and presenting
abroad. Why is that, I wonder?
Informant: Because they can’t.
GH: (shocked) What do you mean?
Informant: To be a top academic you have to be really really smart…it’s like becoming a
pro-golfer…I think to make a name for yourself to the point where the uni thinks your name
is a brand is really hard to do, especially in Japan unless you are Japanese.
GH: But to be a top dog in managing EAP you have to be really really tough? Clever?
Informant: Managing is hard too but it is the best way to move up in a uni…my uni doesn’t
care if I publish…and being [non-Japanese], very few students even if I was famous would
come to [university name] to study with me…BUT I can by building a good program to
3.3 Life as a BLEAP
52
attract students…which makes me important in the uni…which translates into money, and all
that promotion stuff (Interview, September 16, 2010).
Whitchurch (2008) found that ambitious blended professionals can get promoted
eventually to as high as the level of pro-vice chancellor in post-1992 UK HEIs. In
Japan, at least two Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs interviewed for this research later on
attained top administrative posts at their HEIs. This has striking parallels with
Aronowitz’s observations of other corporate universities:
Many discover that the comparative advantages of administration are greater. For some
administrators, the choices dictated by the will to power or, what amounts to the same thing,
the conviction that they can serve the institution better. For others, the move to administra-
tion is a tacit acknowledgment that they have exhausted their academic or intellectual con-
tribution and that administration is a choice that saves him from plunging back into routines
that no longer excite their passions…It doesn’t take long before he views himself as a
member of a separate social layer within the academic system and sees the faculty and
students as adversaries or, at least, as a different stratum (Aronowitz 2000, pp. 164–165).
Upward mobility for this type of BLEAP is not guaranteed. It relies upon the
ability to mobilize TEAPs to carry out the plans of Command & Control. Once
successful, the BLEAP seeks advancement either within the present HEI or
elsewhere. However, if the ambition of the Upwardly Mobile BLEAP is discovered
by TEAPs, there is a risk of being stigmatized as ‘careerist’ or ‘mercenary’. On
several occasions in the field, I observed TEAPs who quietly sabotaged Command
& Control initiatives spearheaded by the BLEAP, or who engaged in forms of
passive dissent. Only rarely would one encounter open protest. Over time, however,
any of these pushback strategies can create the image in minds of those in Command
& Control that the BLEAP is lacking in necessary leadership skills. This has the
effect of putting an Upwardly Mobile BLEAP onto a downward trajectory.
3.3.5 The Transactional BLEAP
The Center of Praxis is a dangerous place for building a career, but there are some
who thrive in the space between TEAPs and Command & Control. I call these
BLEAPs trans-actional because they operate as the consummate go-between.
Masterful intermediaries, depending upon one’s perspective, they either transgress
or transcend traditional organizational boundaries. A helpful tool for understanding
how this BLEAP operates can be found in a study of Trickster Theory (Hyde 1998).
While I have reservations about the term trickster, as it suggests an unwelcome
measure of moral ambiguity often associated with crooks and conmen, Trickster
Theory nevertheless draws upon the archetypes of the messenger gods in mytholo-
gies to highlight the practices and pitfalls of those living between the hoi polloi and
the unassailable corridors of power. In terms of practices, the trickster delivers mes-
sages between the gods and people, while also finding ways to gratify his own
desires. The trickster is a master of disguise. To the gods, he appears as a mischie-
vous yet somewhat comical member of their community or, to borrow the words of
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
53
one of the informants earlier in this chapter, the Trickster is something of a court
jester. To humans, however, in Roman and Greek trickster myths, they are larger-
than-life characters who steal from the gods in order to provide people with gifts.
Yet while taking the appearance of one who is like them, the trickster still comes
across to humans as someone who has something to hide. Managerial theorists
Baddeley and James (1987, p. 18) identify those in organizations whose strategies
are typified by such psychological game playing and keen political awareness as
Foxes. This of course is another trickster archetype found both in Native American
religions and Euro-Slavic myths.
A metaphor not found in my reading of Trickster Theory, but one that I find to be
helpful, is likening the Transactional BLEAP to that of an octopus. On his own in
the ocean, swimming from place to place, the octopus is little more than bait--a tasty
snack for passing predators. The octopus lives by its wits, flitting back and forth,
and using amazing shift-shaping techniques of camouflage to survive. If cornered
and unable to succeed with any of its tricks, the crafty octopus can successfully
vanish behind an inky smokescreen.
Similarly, Transactional BLEAPs are also frequently in vulnerable positions
within their HEIs, and need a measure of cunning to survive being ‘eaten’ by orga-
nizational entrepreneurs seeking to feed off of the BLEAP’s time and talents. With
a public face that is often gregarious and friendly, they are masters of camouflage.
To superiors, they can appear as one of the managerial tribe; two hours later, they
can be found drinking beer with TEAPs at the local pub.
Transactional BLEAPs, like the Trickster, are thrill seekers. They are creatures
of appetite, and often use their posts to support aspects of their lives outside work
that they find to be more important. To those ends, Transactional BLEAPs always
carve out some ‘perk’ that satisfies these deeper, more authentic needs. Among
those observed in my research, for one Transactional BLEAP, it was having consid-
erable paid time away from the unit. For another, it was an all-expense paid yearly
‘research’ trip to New York after escorting students to a host university on a short-
term overseas study program. Several in Japan had arranged such overseas programs
to be in their native countries at HEIs close to friends and family, thereby securing
the equivalent of a paid vacation where they could considerably extend their per
diem funding.
In most cases, this self-gratification was not as hidden to others as the BLEAPs
may have thought. There were always those in Command & Control and in the
Center of Praxis who were well aware of their BLEAPs activities. TEAPs tended to
allow these activities so long as the BLEAP kept managerial interference at bay so
that they could teach according to their deep-seated pedagogical and methodologi-
cal beliefs. A few TEAPs, who were perhaps aspiring Transactional BLEAPs
themselves, respected such BLEAPs as ‘players’--antiheros who had found creative
ways to subvert managerial control. For Command & Control patrons, somewhat in
the way that a parent might allow their children to lick the mixing spoon after the
cake has been put into the oven, the BLEAP’s activities were overlooked, so long as
they did not become a public embarrassment, affect the patrons’standing with other
Command & Control peers, or tarnish the public image of the HEI.
3.3 Life as a BLEAP
54
Transactional BLEAPs, as trickster theorists have noted (Hyde 1998; Patterson
2001; Levine 2002), are surprisingly innovative entrepreneurs. They think outside
of the bureaucratic box and are a constant source of stimulation (as well as irrita-
tion) to the institution. Such qualities are highly valued in neoliberal HEIs, and
especially at Mass Providers, where because of their specialization in mass produc-
tion, they struggle to market themselves in a way to appear distinctive to potential
students and financial sponsors. Transactional BLEAPs are also very useful in keep-
ing TEAPs working peacefully, while equally skillful in gradually contextualizing
the plans of Command & Control for retooling EAP to meet the modern contingen-
cies of today’s knowledge economy.
However, because of the stresses within the Center of Praxis, again along the
lines of Trickster Theory, if the Transactional BLEAP does not keep his or her appe-
tites in check, these can place the BLEAP on a downward trajectory that will even-
tually cause him or her to leave the HEI, as represented by the downturn right corner
of Fig. 3.1. In my observations over the past 6 years, such ‘appetites’ leading to job
loss or demotion to the Center of Praxis involved some aspect of Wine, Women or
Song, that is, alcoholism, sexual scandal, or excessive leisure time out of the office.
Alternatively, if the BLEAP is unable to moderate any waves of dissent rising from
TEAPs, the upward pressure can motivate the Transactional BLEAP to turn
Upwardly Mobile in an effort to escape the discomfort experienced in the Center of
Praxis.
3.3.6 The Sinking BLEAP
The third and final BLEAP observed during my fieldwork and interviews was the
Sinking BLEAP. As implied in the nomenclature, this is a downwardly mobile
BLEAP both in orientation and trajectory. During my research, most stayed within
the job no more than two years before being either demoted or seeking work at
another HEI outside the bounds of this study.
Sinking BLEAPs are often very talented. Most that I encountered had been
excellent senior TEAPs who, because of their dynamism, had been ‘raised up’.
In neoliberal HEIs however, as Steck (2003) notes, the organizational culture shifts
from horizontal collegiality to the hard-nosed vertical hierarchy found in business.
Here, one goes up, moves sideways, or spirals down, so while Upwardly Mobile
BLEAPs see the rules of neoliberal HEIs as an opportunity, and Transactional
BLEAPs see it as a game, Sinking BLEAPs view it as a threat. Instead of mediating
the gulf between HEI management and TEAPs, BLEAPs who still identify with
TEAPs tend to elevate teacher insight while denigrating Command & Control as
incompetent:
Informant: I don’t think that very many senior managers are good at receiving things from
below. It never ceases to amaze me just how stupid and bureaucratic some of them are.
GH: What, do they take it as a challenge to their authority if someone gives them …
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
55
Informant: Well I don’t think that would be the case at Wensleydale. I just think that … well
putting it bluntly I think there’s one thing in managers which … I don’t know what the train-
ing or educational solution actually is, and that is wisdom. A lot of them are not very wise.
Wisdom, for me, would be if I’d had on the presessional course somebody had said, ‘I’ve
written a report here on the class. I’ve analyzed their work and their data and I think this is
a reasonable judgment, an evidence-based judgment about what I think they’re achieving.
Here’s a list of things that I intend to do to try and improve the effectiveness of my teaching.
Here are some things that I think would help if the management team were to put them into
the course or facilitate [mic static],’this that and the other; I mean nobody’s ever done that
to me, but if they did I would be absolutely delighted. I would think ‘Christ, that’s amazing’,
just what you want really. You want people formatively evaluating themselves, being criti-
cal, reflective practitioners. Absolutely ace.
GH: Why would management take offence or take exception at least to that sort of approach,
which is the impression I’m getting from you, that they wouldn’t be able to accept a teacher
doing that sort of thing. Why?
Informant: What’s important to them is being in charge and being in control, and within a
bureaucratic organization policy…everything’s decided at the top and handed down to the
subordinates, so any autonomous action on the part of the subordinate is regarded as subver-
sive. Well that’s a stupid way to think, you know. If the whole thing is about teaching and
learning, then anything which is about the teaching and learning process, or anything which
is likely to enhance that progress has got to be something that you are only too glad to see
(Interview, September 30, 2010).
The focus of many Sinking BLEAPs is downwards towards the education of
students and for the professional development of TEAPs. The same informant, who
had lost a lucrative EAP managing position, continues:
Informant: Where it would have gone, by the way, and we were beginning to lay the foun-
dations of it, where it would have gone would have been with a much greater involvement
of teachers in writing the course…and also trying to redress some of the imbalances in the
course, ‘cause I thought we could have done a lot, might have been able to do much better
on the linguistics element than we did. But again, that was a shortcoming with [the EAP
Unit] because what [the EAP Unit] again could have done on the research front is it could
have done much more systematic analyses of exactly what kind of language Japanese,
Chinese and all the other, certainly the other major nationalities, actually needed in rela-
tion to the kinds of assignments that they would be given in their departments, so that would
have meant not bloody stupid exercises out of books, but going to actual assignments, writ-
ten in the department, and researching just what the linguistic demands were and then
developing the whole grammar, the structure element of the course, on the basis of authen-
tic, written scripts (Interview, September 30, 2010).
Research on the downwardly mobile is noticeably paucious, which perhaps
betrays a preference among researchers for studying success than understanding
failure. Implicit in the focus on success, of course, lies failure as a bipolar construct,
but Cannon and Edmonson (2005, p. 302) also note that informants typically wish
to hide failures in order to maintain their self-esteem and protect their social stand-
ing in the workplace. Nevertheless, there are some influential studies that have stood
the test of time and complement what I uncovered during field observations. Mack’s
(1957) study and Wilensky and Edwards’ (1959) work find that people on Sinking
BLEAP trajectories, who Wilensky & Edwards would call ‘skidders’, are typically
well-educated but espouse work values and beliefs that are less progressive than those
of their superiors. Skidders, that is, Sinking BLEAPs, have often been influenced
3.3 Life as a BLEAP
56
by intergenerational or parent-like older colleagues, who before retiring, have
steeped Sinking BLEAPs into ideals that are at odds with those of the current man-
agement. My own observations and interviews with Sinking BLEAPs also found
that they operated from idealized beliefs about the HEI being a place that should
value alternative viewpoints and liberal intellectual debate. They refused to accept
that, apart from displays of diverse streams of thought in public academic forums
permitted in order to foster an image of the HEI as a place of creative intellectual
excellence and innovative educational quality, persistence in dissenting viewpoints
behind-the-scenes would be interpreted as a direct challenge to the HEI authoritar-
ian paternalists who have a stake in the Tertiary EAP unit. Sinking BLEAPs do not
understand that those who have raised them up have also established the rules for
how they should obey.
Others (Rouleau 2005; Rouleau and Balogun 2011) have highlighted this lack
of political acumen among the downwardly mobile. Baddesley and James (1987),
in their managerial typology, identify those who are politically unaware yet seek-
ing to be faithful to ideals out of step with their organization as Sheep, while
those who lack political awareness, who play the wrong games and who are gen-
erally inept in their work as Donkeys. By failing to acquire the ideology of
Command & Control, and through their stubborn unwillingness to implement
administrative plans for the EAP unit, such Sinking BLEAPs end up making
asses of themselves, with the added effect of coming across, as one Command &
Control informant put it:
Informant: Paranoid.
GH: Who, who told you that? (laughs)
Informant: (laughs loudly) Well, if you turn the recorder off…
GH: Ok, yeah. That’s an interesting one for me. What, what do you mean by paranoid?
Informant: Well, uh, I, I, uh…may, perhaps it was because I was a uh, um…I was thinking
of a very specific…uh, person.
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: Uh, who was an administrator. Of a, of a language program…who, that
was his primary problem…was that he was, uh…um…he, he was paranoid about…
(drops pen)…
GH: What did he not do, he not trust people, or…?
Informant: Uh, uh…yeah. He, he did not trust people. He, he assumed that no matter
what…either superiors, or subordinates were off to him with a question or concern that it
was an attack on him.
GH: Oh.
Informant: …and of course his program personally…and so he reacted…defensively to
things…sometimes, and often irrationally…uh…about, about things. Uh, because he was
just, just convinced that…you know, that…well, they’re out, they’re out to get me and the
program (Interview, November 29, 2005).
Sociologist Erving Goffman’s (1959/2005, p. 33) maxim for ‘the dilemma of
expression versus action’ aptly fits for Sinking BLEAPs: ‘Those who have the time
and talent to perform a task well may not, because of this, have the time or talent to
make it apparent that they are performing well.’ This problem is interrelated with
other observed Sinking BLEAP practices, which have also been noted by More
(1962) and Rouleau and Balogun (2011), which are as follows:
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
57
• Failure to seek out powerful patrons in Command & Control
• Failure to engage in regular displays of respect towards powerful patrons
• Failure to maintain ongoing discourse with powerful patrons
• Experiencing sharp fluctuations in workflow, with a resultant loss of profitability.
As will be seen in later chapters, a decrease in student numbers indicates to HEI
management that the BLEAP is inept.
• A composite of perceived failures and disappointments leading Command &
Control to conclude that the BLEAP had been more useful to the HEI as a TEAP.
Apart from these strategic shortcomings, however, some become Sinking
BLEAPs due to preexisting conflict and mismanagement within the HEI. This was
observed at two sites that featured deeply entrenched groups of suspicious, tenured
teachers on one side, and administrations recently empowered with a new corporate-
style mandate, on the other. Although the Sinking BLEAPs observed in this situa-
tion could have been Transactional or Upwardly Mobile at another institution,
because of the organizational conflict in their universities, they became little more
than cannon fodder in the no-man’s land between the warring factions. One became
physically and psychologically burned out from the burden of ever-increasing
numbers of dream projects being assigned to them both by administrative and aca-
demic members of Command & Control. Another, inspired by idealized visions of
a better future for the HEI, became a professional kamikaze – an organizational
suicide bomber who infiltrated bunkered academic units on behalf of administrative
management, only to self-destruct his future career. Such Sinking BLEAPs are
often young, inexperienced, and eminently expendable.
Even in the more extreme situations as above, the Sinking BLEAPs were rarely
sacked outright. Instead, they would have additional layers of bureaucratic authority
placed above them, which was effectively a demotion that placed them in organiza-
tional exile. When this happened, those unable to leave the HEI because of financial,
familial obligations and/or age considerations would languish in their position. Others
would leave in search of positions elsewhere.At the end of the Sinking BLEAP trajec-
tory, leaving the HEI is often the best option, because in my seven years of field obser-
vations, I never witnessed TEAPs accepting a Sinking BLEAP back into their fold.
3.4 Chapter Summary
Within the Third Space, Blended EAP Professionals are caught in a maelstrom of
activities and agendas. They are vital for maintaining EAP units as SPUs, and for
keeping Third Spaces from collapsing in upon themselves. They seek to survive in
HEIs that have turned carnivorous, due to policy decisions that create the conditions
for austerity and economic starvation. During the process of neoliberalization, the
old and weak do not survive. Entrepreneurial managers begin to eat their young –
that is – to burn out their best and brightest on campus, or as will be seen later, to
engage in various forms of opportunism. With few organizational defenses at their
disposal, BLEAPs are simply trying to survive. The Upwardly Mobile BLEAP
3.4 Chapter Summary
58
seeks solace in Command & Control, unaware perhaps that the dynamics of upward
mobility, transactionalism and sinking trajectories are equally a feature of
professional life of the higher organizational realms. Transactional BLEAPs should
not be seen as particularly devious. They are normal people blessed with sunny
dispositions, and who have learned how to make the most of ambiguous spaces.
Sinking BLEAPs are often highly talented people caught in an organization that
espouses values and a worldview out of sync with their own.
Apart from maintaining the Third Spaces of their HEIs, engaging in the daily
upkeep of the SPU, and serving as a go-between for TEAPs and Command & Control,
there are three social processes used by Blended EAP Professionals in Neoliberal
HEIs: Hunting and Gathering, Weighing and Measuring, and Molding and Shaping.
These give greater understanding about the core social process that emerged from my
study of the informants, which was Professional Disarticulation (Fig. 3.2).
Fig. 3.2 Social processes for blended EAP professionals
contributes
to the
who help
maintain
which
leads to
the
Professional
Disarticulation
Weighing
&
Measuring
Hunting &
Gathering
Molding &
Shaping
External
Dynamics
Internal
Dynamics
The Third
Space
Rise of
SPUs
Emergence
of BLEAPs
3 The Emergence of Blended EAP Professionals
59
Each social process feeds into and receives sustenance from the other, and each
is subject to the influence of internal and external pressures caused by the larger
social currents considered earlier. All are equally essential; all are necessary for the
BLEAP’s maintenance of Tertiary EAP units and survival within the Third Space.
The next three chapters will focus on these social processes, their supporting prop-
erties, the manner in which TEAPs are being managed and retooled, and ways in
which international students are being utilized at neoliberal HEIs. I will attempt to
show how Upwardly Mobile, Transactional and Sinking BLEAPs seek to accom-
plish these processes.
3.4 Chapter Summary
61
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2_4
Chapter 4
Hunting and Gathering
4.1 Introduction
We have seen how major policy shifts over the past 40 years have resulted in drastic
reductions in public support for HE. In the current era of managed austerity,
BLEAPs responsible for Tertiary EAP programs in Mass Providers must continually
search for resources:
GH: What’s the main issue, what’s the main problem that plagues the program, in your
view? If you don’t want to use a negative word like ‘problem’…
Informant: No, no, that’s fine.
GH: What’s the main challenge?
Informant: I would say…getting enough students interested to come and be a part of the
program, so that the program has a life of its own and there’s a different dynamic when
you’ve got a dozen students to when you have seven, or eighteen when you have nine or
something. And as you know, some of those things you can articulate and some of those are
just the feel and things, and you’re able to do things and your experiences are greater when
you have a larger number. And it’s better for Polaris, I think it’s probably better for
NUGIS. So I see the number one problem, I guess we’d call it recruitment and enrollment
(Interview, November 27, 2006).
Over time, repeated contact with this ‘number one problem’in all of the research
sites led me to label this range of BLEAP activities as Hunting & Gathering. Though
none of the BLEAPs had thought of their work in these terms, upon reflection, many
found it to be a helpful metaphor:
GH: I’m kind of looking at sometimes the universities and about this whole international
student thing is in terms of a, say pre-industrial world. They’ve got administrators really
serving on campus as the hunter-gatherers. They hunt, they gather to feed their tribe. What
do you say to that?
Informant: (long, thoughtful pause, then with slow realization) Yeah.
GH: And within that, I’m thinking well, if the administrators are the hunter-gatherers,
EAP teachers seem to see themselves as the bottom-feeders, or corporate warriors, or
the warrior caste is the administration, the hunter-warrior. The EAP teachers see
themselves as, you know, the bottom-feeder. They get the leftovers. They don’t bring in…
62
they don’t, when they go out hunting, they don’t… they don’t bring in lots of things.
These are all metaphors.
Informant: (leaning back, still thinking) Sure.
GH: Metaphors highlight one aspect, and of course distort that and then they ignore other
aspects…Anything come to your mind when I’m talking about that sort of stuff? Does it fit?
Does it not fit? Is it too way out?
Informant: No, it fits. If anything, it drives… it drives my perception of… of globalization
and what that means. I mean, when you’re… when you’re out seeking skills that will
improve you in some way, and improve your capability to…
GH: …make money…
Informant: …earn money, and when money is the goal…And I think it goes back to that age
old question of, you know, economic systems and social systems, and how they interact and
interplay, and so I think we’re… it’s a… we’re living in a manifestation of a capitalist sort
of free market economy that allows people to go anywhere and everywhere, to take what-
ever they want if they’ve got the capital to do that. And EAP is a part of that. So I go out and
I create demand and recruit students to bring them here.
GH:You’re like the head of the tribe.You go out, you go out and hunt, and bring them back,
and that’s it?
Informant: (with quiet intensity) Yeah. (Interview, November 6, 2008).
Key properties of Hunting & Gathering that I have chosen to focus upon in this
chapter are those of resource prospecting, investment servicing, resource leeching
and milking cash cows (Fig. 4.1). The figure shows only primary relations, as people
is an element of is an element of
of
contribute to
is a property of is a property of
is a property of
contributes to causes
supports
results in results in
Hunting &
Gathering
Contextual
Factors
Decreasing
Public
Support
Neoliberalization
Resource
Prospecting
Resource
Leeching
Cash Cow
Milking
Election of
Governments
that cut HE
support
Investment
Servicing
Fig. 4.1 Network of theoretical codes linked to hunting & gathering
4 Hunting and Gathering
63
oftenseektoaccomplishmorethanjustonethingthroughtheirsymbolicinteractions.
For the sake of clarity, I have simplified the properties uncovered during the course
of my research. In this chapter, each is considered in further detail.
4.2 Resource Prospecting
Resource prospecting consists of three commonly occurring activities. The first is in
seeking what some BLEAPs and administrators refer to as ‘resource enhancements’.
The next is in securing dependable resource flows, and finally, successful BLEAPs
engage in the cultivation of potential new resources. ‘Resources’ in this case means
primarily the tuition of international students, but other benefits are highly prized,
such as getting positive PR in the mass media, gaining prestigious external awards
for the EAP program, or developing low-cost multicultural opportunities for
domestic students.
4.2.1 Seeking Resource Enhancements
Seeking resource enhancements for EAP in neoliberal universities means looking
for opportunities that attract extra international students, often through programs
that are marketed as distinctive or innovative. In several sites that I visited, the
search for students was shaped by an older institutional memory of Japanese
international students from the late 1980s, a time when many EAP programs at
Mass Provider HEIs experienced their first flush of cash-carrying international stu-
dents. This is interrelated with a frequently mentioned stereotype of cash-laden East
Asian students. In the past, the iconic image was that of the moneyed Japanese
student, as one BLEAP explains:
…and for Japanese students, quite honestly, our Japanese students that come here, you know,
buy cars immediately, and have $150 sneakers on their feet and all that sort of stuff. I mean
those that were getting sort of the… well, regular Japanese students, which are wealthy in
comparison to other international students (Interview, November 5, 2008).
In recent years, however, the image has shifted to Chinese students, which is not
surprising given China’s economic growth over the past decade. The following are
the observations of a TEAP:
Informant: We had a [Chinese] student that lost his wallet and, ‘I have lost my wallet, what
should I do?’So I said, ‘OK, well let’s go…’We went down to the Communications Office and
one of the instructors had picked up his wallet in the men’s restroom and turned it in down
there. ‘Oh thank goodness you found it.’He opened it up; he had $3,000 of cash in there.
GH: Wow! So he lost his bank account as well.
Informant: Yeah. And the other Chinese student had the same thing and I told [the EAP
administration] that. They just don’t really care. But the students don’t understand that you
can’t do that in the US (Interview, October 26, 2009).
4.2 Resource Prospecting
64
The Hunting & Gathering of international students seen as having considerable
amounts of disposable income is one important strategy for recouping the shortfall
caused by decreasing public support. Long-term international students are prefer-
able, not simply because of the financial benefit to the university, but also because
they bring an element of diversity to the campus. Multicultural diversity, usually
the visible type in terms of race, nationality and clothing, is an important resource
enhancement because this is seen to be an important element missing from the
education of many domestic university students in Mass Provider HEIs, especially
as the world economy becomes increasingly integrated. A highly-visible
multicultural element also demonstrates to stakeholders and rival HEIs that the
university is a successful player in the global marketplace (Tobenkin 2007; Forrest
2008). In terms of socioeconomic class, however, even with the influx of
international students, the HEIs are still lacking in deeper levels of diversity, since
international students often find very similar counterparts while abroad. This sec-
tion, however, will focus on strategies observed in the US and UK, such as the
proliferation of short-term ‘schoolstay’ programs, and also study examples of how
resource enhancement differs in Japanese HEIs.
When BLEAPs in US and UK HEIs sought resource enhancements, two main
strategies were observed. One was to work externally with the sometimes shadowy
world of international student recruiters. The second was to break down the institu-
tional barriers to recruitment created by the TOEFL and IELTS.
Informants became evasive when asked about their personal dealings with
international recruiters. The tenor of the interview darkened, and informants often
sought to redirect the interviews. What I was able to gather over time was that most
recruiters live abroad in lucrative overseas markets, where they scout out potential
students on behalf of the university. Some may sell names of students to the HEI
paying the highest commission. The price is often based on a percentage of the
expected profits gained from the successful recruitment of these students, and
recruiters may attempt to steer students towards HEIs offering the highest return for
their recruiting efforts (Robison 2007).
Kallur (2006) cites additional issues that BLEAPs face when working with
overseas recruiters, many who are ethically at odds with the branded image of the
receiving HEI. Recruiters sometimes make promises to students that EAP programs
cannot keep, and many recruiters are unwilling to provide any follow up once stu-
dents transfer to the university. Turning a blind eye to the way in which some agents
provide cash-carrying students to neoliberal universities does at times incur huge
costs for the institution. For example, in 2014 the UK Visas and Immigration,
together with the National Crime Agency, conducted a sting operation of over fifty
colleges and universities, this following the investigative program Panorama’s
report which uncovered that universities knowingly accepted tens of thousands of
international students from recruiters tied to criminal gangs. These groups provided
students with false English test qualifications and other counterfeit papers for enter-
ing British universities, and received large payments from students and the universi-
ties for their services as ‘suppliers’ (Scale of Student Visa Fraud Condemned as
‘Truly Shocking’ 2014). This has led some universities to seek ways of cutting out
4 Hunting and Gathering
65
these middlemen altogether through ‘e-recruitment’ and word-of-mouth chats of
former students via the Internet (Hawley 2005; Darrup-Boychuck 2007; Klafter
2008). The use of these referrals is a part of Investment Servicing, another hunting
and gathering property to be discussed later.
Although outside the scope of this theory, the ethical problems HEIs face when
dealing with international student recruiters is beginning to garner attention in other
academic fields (Considine 1994; Svensson and Wood 2007). The EAP academic
community needs to conduct more research in order to shed further light on this
critical issue, with the understanding that, whether an agency or a specific individ-
ual, the international student recruiter is vital for the successful enhancement of
resources. EAP programs can experience a severe crisis and risk major restructuring
if they lose contact with overseas suppliers:
Informant: …we received sometimes a quota of students from particular universities and
there was a very friendly relationship and … in one sense it was beneficial. However
I wouldn’t say it was a major force for building up our international network. <Chuckles>
The primary purpose of the program from the university’s point of view was no doubt
finance raising.
GH: Making money.
Informant: Making money.
GH: Did you have, yourself, did you have any communications with the…I suppose…coor-
dinator or person who would send the students? Or did they come through a recruiter? Or
how did the students come from those different universities?
Informant: We had one major agency, which sent us a lot of students, and then other students
would apply individually. The problem occurred when that agency went into decline and
we weren’t receiving so many students through them. That was the start of the overall
downward trend.
GH: That’s interesting that you say that.
Informant: Uh-huh. I can’t even remember the name of the agent involved, but they were
very good and they generally provided us with something like ten students a year. And they
were obviously promoting us well and we were pricing the package correctly. But they also,
I think what happened in terms of the agency is they lost some of their staff, they’d been
headhunted or something, I have no idea.
GH: Who knows.
Informant: But that broke the continuity. They had new people in who weren’t as good as
the previous people. And we lost quite a few customers that way at that time (Interview,
September 12, 2006).
This informant and other BLEAPs still made regular visits to recruitment fairs in
key market countries, but without an asset connected to the local culture, such trips
often ended in disappointment.
In the days when many of the universities surveyed had received greater levels of
public support, TOEFL and IELTS were important for preventing international
students from entering the system until they were able to cope with the linguistic
challenges of studying abroad. Today, however, with the exception of the more pres-
tigious HEIs with a surplus of applicants, my study found that the TOEFL/IELTS
barrier has become considerably more negotiable. Some of the permeability of this
barrier has taken place because of the proliferation of tests and the difficulty of finding
exact conversions. For example, there is a TOEFL Paper-based Test (TOEFL PBT),
TOEFL Computer-Based Test (TOEFL CBT) and an Internet-based test (TOEFL
4.2 Resource Prospecting
66
iBT). Each use different scoring systems to measure similar bands of language
proficiency, but these scores are difficult to match both between themselves and
when trying to convert them to the grading system of the IELTS. This has opened
the door for ambiguity. Many EAP units have standards decided by those in the
lower echelons of Command & Control, who unfortunately may not fully understand
what the test measures indicate:
Informant: …we work with agents. And China is going to be wrapping up. I mean, that’s
going to be where are… that will be our number one student population. But it’s not only
just EAP students. Some come through EAP, some come for regular bachelor’s degrees
right from the start.
GH: Oh, so they’ve already got the TOEFL score?
Informant: IELTS.
GH: Or IELTS you’re allowing people to come now with IELTS?
Informant: Yes.
GH: You are? Well, I’ll be. So what do they need to get here?
Informant: 5.0.
GH: (incredulous) They need 5.0 to get here with IELTS???
Informant: I’ve told admissions that they need to set that higher. Because that band is just
too low.
GH: Yeah, it is. They… they can’t get into a British university unless it’s… I think it’s got to
be 7.0.
Informant: Ours is 6.5 for grads, 5.0 for undergrads, and I… I said it really needs to be
5.5, but for what we are facing, yeah, 5.0.
GH: You know, that’s lower than the TOEFL 500?
Informant: Yeah, I know.
GH: So a student… a student could…
Informant: I don’t know why.
GH: They probably think TOEFL 500, IELTS 5.0?
Informant: (Grimly) This is admissions making a decision.
GH: Well, that undercuts the competition, because UK schools will not be able to compete
with that.
Informant: Yeah. So we’re recruiting a wider swath (Interview, November 5, 2008).
A cursory survey on the Internet of TOEFL and IELTS conversions for several
British and American university EAP programs revealed similar discrepancies.
However, a more purposeful strategy for getting around the difficulties caused by
TOEFL and IELTS for resource enhancement has been through the acquisition of
outside accreditation for university EAP programs, such as from the British Council
in the UK. The US system is less centralized in this area, but the Accrediting
Counsel for Continuing Education and Training (ACCET) or the Commission on
English Language Program Accreditation (CEA), both which are recognized by the
United States Department of Education, are standard.
During the course of this research, some of the universities accessed had either
gained this certification themselves or had started to collaborate with other Tertiary
EAP programs and/or private language institutes holding one of these certifications.
International students who pass the requirements of the program could then either
enter the university or one of the other HEIs in the partnership group without taking
the TOEFL or IELTS. These students usually enter the university with a status of
‘conditional acceptance’, which allows admission to a degree program so long as
4 Hunting and Gathering
67
students continue to study EAP. Informants told me that the ability of their EAP unit
to bring in a considerable number of students was seen as a major strength, and this
solidified their position on campus as a program that contributed positively to the
overall health of the university. In contrast, I observed an EAP unit at one university
go through several years of difficulty in recruiting enough international students.
In unrecorded interviews with informants from Command & Control, the displea-
sure expressed about their EAP unit was almost palpable, and problems were
frequently framed around the issue of low enrolment.
Another important resource enhancement comes through the development of
short-term programs. I call these ‘schoolstay programs’, since they provide only a
flavor of American or British academic life, and similar to homestay programs,
students pay for the security of being within a respected foreign institution that
provides much-needed structure and meaning. The finer details of schoolstays vary,
but most send groups of students to America or the UK for periods as short as two
weeks to as long as a year. In all cases, the partner HEI in the sending country works
as the international recruiter for the host university. Many Japanese HEIs that have
set up these types of programs emulate the model established by Tokyo’s Asia
University in the late 1990s (Hadley 1999).
Schoolstay programs are very attractive to BLEAPs in the US and UK, as they
often bring financial resources to the EAP unit and provide noticeable forms of
diversity at a bargain to the university. This is because the students spend most of
their time in the EAP program and rarely disrupt other classes or incur costs to the
HEI by accessing other campus services. Schoolstay students are often put on
highly visible ‘service learning’ projects in order to offer language opportunities or
other intercultural experiences for all involved. Such service learning projects pro-
vide free PR for the university. On campus, schoolstay students are sent to official
events aimed at stimulating exchange with domestic students, which are then con-
spicuously reported by those in charge of public relations. Articles of such events
are then published to showcase the dynamism and global reach of the university to
outside stakeholders.
BLEAPs frequently told me how schoolstay programs have started to become
increasingly important. Apart from the financial and multicultural benefits, school-
stay program participants are valued for the enthusiasm and energy they bring,
something which is often missing among international students who have been on
campus for an extended period of time. A BLEAP explains:
GH: What is this overseas program? What is it?
Informant: Hmm. For…for…for us?
GH: Yeah. For you.
Informant: For me, the overseas program is an integral part of our internationalization of
[place name redacted]…it’s a program that brings students…uh…from different parts of the
world, and it really actually in an unintended way serves as a…a equalizing force in some
way against our gen – our general international population. You bring in students that are
highly energized…and they are… You know, they aren’t just…bumps on a log…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …these are students that come in and they’re excited and ready to go. They’ve
been prepared.
4.2 Resource Prospecting
68
GH: The regular international students are bumps on a log sometimes?
Informant: Uh, yeah. Can be.
GH: Hmm.
Informant: …I think that students that come in a group are, are, are led all the way
through…with leaders, and I think that sets them up, to be…actualized in a way that the
other international students are not.
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …so what they do is…uh…they come in with this confidence and energy…but
actually, shows the other students – and they come in but their English is not as good as a…
uh, an exchange student from Europe…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: You know, someone that comes from the Netherlands is going to be…much
more communicative than, than, uh, your Japanese student…but they have this energy and
the ability to sort of…pull those students together. So that’s, one of those…uh…extra ben-
efits of the, of the overseas program.
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …and so, what I see it as is…for us it’s a critical part of what we’re trying to
accomplish on campus…(Interview, May 10, 2006).
However, it was common to observe TEAPs resisting the inclusion of short-term
students, seeing this as an unwelcome distraction from their focus on the ‘real’ stu-
dents who were preparing to enter the university. A retired Command & Control
informant from Polaris reminisces:
Those summer programs we did with the school in Korea and your school, [the president]
loved those types of things, to say we were doing them. Now [the TEAPs] hated, just hated
them, and tried everything in the world to sabotage them because what value are they?
They’re not going to try for the 500, they’re not going to try for the big TOEFL score. The
value was culture, the value was context, and of course [the Provost] and I both thought that
eventually we might get more students back or we could build it into a program where we
would, which we have (Interview, November 29, 2005).
By resisting schoolstay programs, TEAPs unwittingly posit themselves as sabo-
teurs of resource enhancement, which can put them in a very perilous position
within neoliberal universities.
In contrast, interviews with Japanese Command & Control administrators and
BLEAPs suggest that the search for resource enhancements is distinct from what I
observed in the US and UK. Chinese international students are still increasing through-
out Japan, but administrative informants have told me that, at most universities, there is
a desire to avoid such recruitment if possible. Japanese HEIs, especially the Sausage
Makers, who recruit large numbers of international students, are viewed by rival schools
as experiencing financial problems. It indicates that the domestic student customers
have chosen to shop elsewhere, and that the status of the HEI is in decline. Smaller
HEIs also view the recruitment of international students as costing more than any
potential benefits that might be had, as one Command & Control administrator explains:
インフォーマント : ԆȃབྷᆖǼȄǃഭ䳋Ӕ⍱ɃɻɇόǽǠǃԆȃ…ֻǝȅ[redacted]
ǼȄexchange student centerǽǠȂǃinternational student centerǽǠǗȠǦǾȗǨȃ
བྷᆖȄ⢩ࡕǲǨȃɃȷȿɯɻǵǦȃȲɝȫɁǡǿǙǠȞᆖउ䃢ǃǽǠֻǝȅǃՊ
䀸ǃ㏿उȧਜ਼ȖǴᲞ䙊ȃһउȃ㍴㒄ȃѝǼሮᘌǬǻǙȠǄ
Informant: At other universities, they have an International Exchange Center or…at
other…for example, at [name of American university] they have an exchange student
4 Hunting and Gathering
69
center, something like that, right? International student center or something like that,
but at this university we don’t have a special office section for that in administration…
for example, accounting, general affairs all included with others deal with these
issues…
ハドリー: ǲȡȄǿǱǼǬȜǛǠ?
GH: Why is that?
インフォーマント : ȓǯǃ⮉ᆖ⭏ȃਇǦ‫ޕ‬ȡփࡦǡॱ࠶ȀǼǢǻǙǿǙǄਇǦ‫ޕ‬ȡ
ȠǽǙǛփࡦȃᮤ‫ۉ‬ǡȓǵǼǢǻǙǿǙǃǨǽǡǗȠǠȞǄ䘱ȟࠪǮǵǦǵǠȞ
㍴㒄ǽǬǻȄӺȃሮᘌǡǃӪⲴǿ㾱㍐ǃֻǝȅȻɁɐəɝȱόɦɻɁǽǠǃֻǝ
ȅӪ䯃ȧǴǤǪȨ䳷ȤǿǤǻȗӺȃɁɇɋɝǼࠖ⨶ǡǼǢȠǄ
Informant: First of all, we haven’t properly prepared for receiving international stu-
dents. Because we haven’t set up a maintenance system for accepting students yet. This is
because we only send them [the Japanese university students] abroad, the organization
can deal with this, but, [with reference to receiving international students] there is the
human element and for example, the issue of cost performance, but even if we don’t hire
a lot more people the staff we have now can deal with what we need to do (Interview, May
7, 2008).
It is more common for BLEAPs in Japanese HEIs to search for native English
teachers as resource enhancements, and as a second strategy, to send Japanese
students abroad on schoolstay programs.
In many Japanese HEIs, Native Speaker TEAPs perform a role that is similar to
that of international students elsewhere. They are an important marketing item for
drawing domestic students. Even at boutique trade schools sporting ‘international’
in their title, part-time native speakers are hired. Most private and public HEIs in
Japan today continue to seek Caucasian instructors from what Holliday (1994) calls
the BANA countries (British, American/Canadian, New Zealand, Australia).
As resource enhancements, these TEAPs are extremely valuable to Command &
Control. They provide diversity on campus, and spend considerably more classroom
contact hours with students than tenured faculty. They are often younger, more ener-
getic, and in economic terms, can be quickly replaced in the case of labor disputes
or a shortfall in profits. TEAPs occupy prominent places in student recruitment lit-
erature of neoliberal HEIs, with frequent photographs of enthusiastic students inter-
acting with a smiling foreign instructor. These instructors are ubiquitous during
‘open day’ or ‘open campus’ activities, which are vital for the Hunting & Gathering
of domestic students.
Because TEAPs in Japan are typically hired on short-term contracts ranging
from 1 to 5 years, there is constant turnover in these posts. BLEAPs spend con-
siderable time Hunting & Gathering for new instructors. In larger metropolitan
areas, informal networks exist between the BLEAPs at various HEIs for facilitat-
ing the hunting of instructors with good records of accomplishment. This is
because Command & Control will hold BLEAPs responsible for recommending
a TEAP who later becomes a liability to the EAP unit, either by not satisfying the
wishes of administrative management or student customers. These networks are
vital for lessening risk and finding the right type of instructor for the needs of
particular HEIs.
The other means of generating resource enhancements in the neoliberal Japanese
HEI is to send students abroad on schoolstay programs. One Japanese administrator
4.2 Resource Prospecting
70
in charge of the daily operation of all NUGIS overseas programs explained their
importance as a ‘sales point’ for attracting domestic students:
ハドリー: ǨȃȪɩɲȳ⮉ᆖɟɵȸɱɨȄаփǿȨǼǬȜǛǠǄ
GH: So, what in the world is this American Overseas Study Program?
インフォーマント: аփǿȨǼǬȜǛǠǸǻ?
Informant: What is it, you say?
ハドリー: ǾǛǙǛअ⢙ǼǮǠǄ
GH: What kind of ‘animal’is it?
インフォーマント: ǙǙȻɦόȿɫɳǽǬǻșȡȅǙǙᮉ㛢ǽǬǻȓǯǃཆഭȀ⮉
ᆖǼǢȠǽǠǃབྷᆖǼȄ㤡䃎ȧɘɋȷȪɋɟǬǻǙȠǽǠǄᨀᩪǬǻǙȠབྷᆖǡ
ǗǸǻᆹ‫ޘ‬Ǽǃঈսǡǽȡǻǃ㤡䃎ǡк᡻ȀǿǸǻǄǽǙǛȵɫɋɉɝɴόɂǽ
ǠǲǛǙǛȃȄ䀰ǝȠǦǾǄǾǛǬǻȗȂǃȇǾǙ䀰ǙᯩǮȠǽǃབྷᆖǽǙǛɉ
ɯȻɴόɐȃəɋȹόɀǄ
Informant: First of all, a good education, as a good commercial, ‘It is possible to go to
study in a foreign country, and the university will back you up with English study. We have
an affiliated university abroad, it is safe, you can get credit at home while studying abroad,
and your English will improve…’This is sort of thing that is the catchphrase of the program,
I guess I would say. But, and it is kind of a terrible way of saying it, but it is saying the
university is like a box of chocolate.
ハドリー: ᆖ⭏ȃɲȷɳόɐȃǴȖȃǝǪ?
GH: Bait for recruiting students?
インフォーマント : ǛȨ
Informant: Yeah… (Interview, June 27, 2007).
For those students that go abroad, the expectation is for them to interact with native
speakers, return to the HEI and then make positive contributions to the institution.
Although students on schoolstay programs may struggle in their personal goal of
‘making friends’ with domestic students, they often develop long-lasting friendships
with other Asian students, and through overseas service learning projects, amass a
portfolio of life-long memories. Energized by such ‘transformative experiences’
(Tran 2009), most Japanese students return and perform the same role as they had
when abroad: Energizing and motivating other students who did not study abroad,
participating in a variety of school recruitment drives, and dedicating considerable
amounts of time to domestic service learning projects, where they share stories of
their overseas experiences with high school and junior high school students. These
events are, just as they were when abroad, heavily photographed and published in
university PR newsletters and other recruitment literature designed to create an image
of the HEI as a dynamic and internationally-minded institution. Such activities are
interrelated with Resource Leeching, another property of Hunting & Gathering. First,
however, let us consider ways in which BLEAPS seek dependable resource flows.
4.2.2 Securing Dependable Resource Flows
A lexical feature of HEI administrative managerial discourse was the use of words
such as ‘streams’, ‘flows’, and other terms of liquidity to describe the mass migra-
tion of international students. The use of flow language and references to interna-
tional students as a consumable resource is an important lexical marker that positions
4 Hunting and Gathering
71
the informant in the organizational matrix. Informants viewing international
students in terms of flow tend to be either Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs aspiring to
enter Command & Control, or are those who are already occupying a space in
Command & Control. The closer an informant is to the Center of Praxis, the more
s/he will refer to them as students and address them on a first name basis.
Securing dependable resource flows is stimulated by fears of sudden stoppages
that naturally thwart the vital task of flow control, which is defined as the mainte-
nance of resource movement to keep the SPU constantly fueled and running. While
the direction of the resource flow, which will be discussed later as Flow Management,
is determined by those in Command & Control, keeping the flow open and prevent-
ing diversions from above as well as stoppages coming from outside the system are
BLEAP responsibilities. External stoppages are caused by the ebb and flow of stu-
dent groups due to national economic conditions. Many EAP units in the 1980s
focused primarily on Japanese students to keep their SPUs viable, but this threw
many programs into disarray after the Japanese market dried up. Some BLEAPs
who survived this experience learned to diversify their clientele by seeking out new
revenue streams:
But as the enrollment began to go down two things happened at one time. [The BLEAP]
became very interested in adding other students from other countries, especially Turkey and
maybe Morocco, and so he went recruiting and brought back a number of recruits from
Turkey and so the Turkish students really outweighed the Japanese students (Interview,
November 29, 2005).
Successful BLEAPs recognize that an overreliance on one language group
threatens the stability and the security of their EAP unit. The temptation to rely on
one group, however, is difficult to resist. I have observed at several HEIs the signifi-
cant increase in the number of Chinese students, suggesting that, in a manner similar
to what happened with Japanese learners during the late 1980s and early 1990s, that
the next decade may again witness sudden crises for Tertiary EAP programs when
the current Chinese bubble bursts.
Concern about the future supply of student numbers leads to a number of contin-
gencies. One strategy is to keep money in surplus as a way to stabilize the program
during difficult economic times. This is hard to maintain, however, since informants
at some of the HEIs have told me that Command & Control management often dips
into EAP surpluses for other campus projects, thus weakening the SPU when
student flows are disrupted. Another approach is to avoid an overdependence on
schoolstay programs by either keeping them clearly in the ‘enhancement’ category.
The alternative to this was to push the schoolstay programs to generate more income,
which is, as one informant put it, ‘bringing it to the next level.’ On many occasions,
I was reminded by Polaris administrators about the diminutive nature of the
American Overseas Program with NUGIS, and there were times during program
negotiations when I felt unduly pressured by Polaris to go out and recruit more
students. I thought at first that administrative management was seeking to reshape
my role into an overseas recruiter, but after discussing these experiences with
Command & Control administrators at NUGIS, I discovered that administrative
management in Japan interpreted the demands for more students as extremely
4.2 Resource Prospecting
72
positive, explaining that in pressuring me for more students, they felt that Polaris
administrators were seeking to upgrade the NUGIS program and bring it more into
the mainstream of their operations. In effect, they were trying to determine the level
of commitment, a term synonymous with the degree of return for one’s financial
investment and the level of reciprocity for services each party is willing to put into
an overseas study venture:
GH: (reading pre-interview form) You looked at the NUGIS-Polaris program and you
wrote…commitment?
Informant: Right.
GH: Well, that’s interesting. Tell me about that. What do you mean?
Informant: Well, uh…it seems to me that each school and what the program represents in
my mind is a commitment, not just to each other, but, but to the students.
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: Um…you know, we’re making a commitment to providing certain services …
for a certain fee, if you will, but…but it’s not just…you know, ok…uh, you want the uh…you
want the Big Mac or you want so that alright there, but it’s, it’s more than that. And I think
that’s typically what Polaris does. We tend to go above and beyond and provide and provide
and provide and…uh, I think we have…uh, and you know we’ve made a commitment to
NUGIS (pointing to NUGIS-Polaris plaque crafted and awarded by Polaris from an earlier
visit)…(mumbles)…I’ve got that…the thing over there…
GH: Yes, yes…the Polaris-NUGIS Plaque…
Informant: Um…yeah?
GH: Right.
Informant: Uh, you know, we’ve made a commitment to serving those students and…
you’ve made a commitment to…recruit students to be a part of the program…so to me that’s
just the word that resonated with me initially…was ‘commitment’.
GH: Mm-hm. Are you sensing that, that the levels of commitment are…equal?
Informant: (Sighs and clears throat uncomfortably)
GH: Or, do you feel some areas of inequity with that?
Informant: (shuffles in seat. clears throat)
GH: Or is, equal and unequal…not even the right sort of thing to put on it?
Informant: Yeah. That, that’s a good um…(very long pause)…that’s an interesting
question.
GH: Mmm.
Informant: Uh…rather than equal or unequal…what did pop in my mind when, when you
asked that I think, comes from…as I understand it, from you and primarily from my…visits
with you…uh, not only a year ago…but June, when, when we were there, I was thinking
before during and after that…goals setting meeting that, that we had.
GH: Yeah.
Informant: I think that there are varying degrees of commitment by some administrators at
NUGIS... (Interview, November 29, 2005).
Commitment is an important property when BLEAPs seek to secure dependable
resource flows, because it is only after the true degree of resource reciprocity is
determined that a decision can be made whether to maintain their relationship with
an EAP-based partnership venture. John Godfrey, assistant dean for international
graduate education at the University of Michigan’s Rackham Graduate School in
Ann Arbor, explains the reasons for why his university chose to end a schoolstay
program with a Chinese university:
It ended for lots of reasons. We learned that the communication needed to build a partner-
ship of this scale is truly labor intensive. Developing this initiative has required input and
4 Hunting and Gathering
73
commitment from both senior leadership and faculty at every step, and close communication
between the College of Engineering and the Rackham Graduate School. Challenges
included keeping the program size manageable when the demand in China is so great.
Reciprocity was another issue: so far, interest from UM students in a dual degree with a
Chinese university has not matched the interest from Chinese students… we have so many
students from China here already that it didn’t add that much value (Tobenkin 2008, p. 38).
Informants occasionally mentioned during unrecorded interviews that, from their
perspective, traditional student exchanges are more stable than unidirectional
schoolstay programs, and from the perspective of administrators at the Japanese HEIs
in this study, sending students has greater cost performance, because non-Japanese
speaking students represent a resource flow most Japanese SPUs are unable to process
without far more investment into Japanese for Academic Purposes.
A further means of securing dependable resource flows is by undercutting
competing HEIs in some key area. Often this is accomplished by competitively pric-
ing the EAP program packages. This can quickly attract new flows. However, other
strategies must be utilized to insure the continuance of new flows. One is to highlight
the issue of safety, an important issue for students and their parents. Leaving the
security of Japan, China or Korea for the UK or US can cause considerable anxiety,
especially when one considers that media reports in Asia often portray the US and
UK as crime-ridden societies infested with mass murderers and underground cells of
terrorists. A strategy for undercutting the competition, therefore, is to highlight the
quality of support services to allay the fears of students and parents. One example of
this can be seen in a report on a recruitment drive for international students at Elon
University in the US, where a kind, nurturing attitude towards international students
was cited as one of their main reasons for successful Hunting & Gathering:
John Keegan, director of international admissions and associate director of admissions,
travels the world recruiting students, and exchanges dozens of emails on a daily basis with
prospects and their parents. ‘We would love to enroll 100 more international students;’
says Keegan, a 1996 Elon alumnus. The personable Keegan is a persuasive salesman. Chae
Kim, 20, a sophomore accounting major from Seoul, South Korea, and her parents got the
full treatment when they pulled into Elon on a spring break trip after she spent a year in
Jackson, Mississippi, as a high school exchange student. ‘He was very welcoming. He
basically told my parents he would look after me while I was here; said Kim. Susan
C. Klopman, vice president of admissions and financial planning, says stories like Chae
Kim’s are ‘what has made Elon admissions and enrollment successful. We have been for-
tunate enough to really make connections with so many of our students. It’s getting harder
with the proliferation of applications, but a personal relationship is critical for international
students …’They also don’t have to worry about getting to or from the airport, 45 minutes
away. ‘We pick them up, we drop them off at the airport. That’s any time that they ask for
it;’ says Francois Masuka, director of International Student and Faculty Scholar Services.
‘We do things I don’t think many schools do. The environment is a friendly, brotherly,
sisterly type of environment. We cultivate that. You’ve got to hold more hands here’
(Connell 2008, pp. 48–49).
Issues such as kindness and safety may pertain primarily to East Asian student
concerns, but because these learners represent the majority of those being recruited
to the US and UK, personable treatment is important for Hunting & Gathering, and
has great potential for drawing potential learners away from other HEIs that appear
to be ‘unsafe’ or ‘unkind’.
4.2 Resource Prospecting
74
4.2.3 Cultivating Potential Resources
Resource cultivation is synonymous with a concept known in the literature of
international business as ‘relationship marketing’(Morgan and Hunt 1994; Grönroos
2002). Cultivating potential resources, to build upon Harker’s (1999) literature
review, is defined as either establishing or strengthening rapport with resource people
abroad in order to maintain mutually cooperative relationships based on lasting trust
and commitment. The goal is to eventually create profitable, rewarding educational
ventures. Consider the following e-mail exchange that I had with a BLEAP at Polaris
after he had visited NUGIS during an Asian recruitment trip:
GH: I can only imagine how busy it must be for you right now as you play catch up. Put this
at the bottom of your immediate list of 101 things to do: (long list of items discussed in
meetings). I think that is all for the moment. We enjoyed having you over and I look forward
to seeing you this autumn (E-mail Correspondence April 14, 2009).
Informant: Thank you for hosting me and making sure my time there was enjoyable. It was
really nice of you. I will respond to your points in this e-mail over time. For now, I can say
that I plan to teach the TOEIC class. I will also meet with the Residential Life assignment
officer to get students matched correctly. I will get that ball rolling now. I have sent the
(school clinic) your list of questions and hopefully they will respond soon. The (University
Debit ID Card) is a student understanding and we will work with them again. I will be in
touch! P.S. Please see attached for new fee schedule indicting the omission of the credit
bearing culture course (E-mail Correspondence April 14, 2009).
GH: Yes, it was really good to have you around. You’re certainly a kindred spirit, and you
fit in very well within the NUGIS atmosphere. It was like you’d worked here for years! Ok,
I’ll pass on the new financial plan to the NUGIS overseas administrative coordinator
(E-mail Correspondence April 14, 2009).
Informant: Haven’t I worked for NUGIS for many years?!?!? No, really it feels cozy there,
Greg. I appreciate your hospitality and will keep it in mind when Hadley arrives in the fall
(E-mail Correspondence April 14, 2009).
GH: Sure thing. No need to reciprocate. There is joy in giving! I’ll check the student infor-
mation and get back with you (E-mail Correspondence April 14, 2009).
Informant: Thanks Greg! I had a great time there. The only [non-American] owned bar
I can take you to in town is the bar fridge in my garage, so really enjoyed you taking me out
and the productive meetings we had as well (E-mail Correspondence April 15, 2009).
The e-mail exchange continues for a few more turns to discuss a shared knowledge
of a non-American TV comedy program before ending.
What may seem to the uninitiated as simply a friendly e-mail exchange is actually
very serious business. Such interactions are vital for maintaining resource flows to
EAP programs. Cultivation is less about the direct recruitment of international
students and more about the maintenance of relationships with resource operatives.
Doing so may result in the development of new flows to the EAP programs and their
connected HEI. Cultivating potential resources is an important auxiliary skill for
BLEAPs, since recruitment is seen by Command & Control as one of the BLEAP’s
primary responsibilities. Failing to cultivate friendly and personal relations with key
contact personnel abroad, whether they are a recruiting agency or their counterparts
at a partnering HEI, may result in sudden flow stoppages and a subsequent crisis for
the EAP unit.
4 Hunting and Gathering
75
4.2.4 TEAP Response to Resource Prospecting
Resource prospecting by BLEAPs was almost universally condemned by the TEAPs
in this study, who frequently portrayed administrative management as caring more
about climbing the corporate HEI ladder than either the TEAPs or the students who
they had gathered from abroad:
Informant: But, yeah, it’s about money, you know. It’s a lot about money. I do find, you
know, at least in… in administration, the people that move up maybe don’t always have the
best interest of the students at heart.
GH: What are they interested in? Just money?
Informant: No, moving up, you know. Stuck up, step down, you know. But I think it’s… I
think it’s that way everywhere, though, really.
GH: What does that mean, though?
Informant: That means… that means kiss the butts of the people above you, and they buy it
because they’re salesmen, and then the people below you, just don’t have to worry about
them, you know (Interview, July 25, 2007).
In the UK, a key lexical item that distinguished where informants stood on this
issue was the use of ‘mercenary’for describing Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs engaged
in acquiring international students as resource enhancements. The following is from
a Sinking BLEAP:
Informant: These are not robots, these are human beings going through …
GH: But maybe they’re just seen as a source of revenue I suppose?
Informant: (muttering darkly under breath) …mercenary…
GH: Mercenary. I’ve heard that word before a number of times. Mercenary.
Informant: The university wants international students but doesn’t want to provide the
care and support needed for international students, put the infrastructure in place.
GH: A number of schools seem to be like that abroad. I don’t understand the -
Informant: (with emotion) – It’s foolish, because it backfires in the end! (Interview,
September 12, 2006).
‘Being mercenary’ is an evocative term since it carries the image of amoral
soldiers who fight for money than for a nation or culturally bound cause. Identifying
the semiotic other as mercenary or as a money-and-success-motivated salesman
indicates a flashpoint for TEAPs still clinging to communitarian Cold War beliefs
about teaching culture to international students. Such terminology casts Upwardly
Mobile BLEAPs in the role of the corporate warrior, the Savoy-suited philistine
bent upon exploitation. The real picture is far more complex, however, and I found
that many of the frontline administrative professionals at all the venues surveyed
care as much about international students as the TEAPs, such as in the following
example from the University of Wensleydale:
GH:You’re in the international office, you’ve been in all day, you came back to your flat, or
wherever you were living, popped your feet up on the… on the coffee table, and thought,
‘Oh, this was a great day.’What would’ve happened for you?
Informant: Okay, that’s a hard one. Probably one where I’d had some human interaction
with the student, like I’d actually solved a problem for them, and got to know somebody a little
bit. Because in those jobs, you churn through people’s inquiries, so the nicest bits of the day
are the ones where you see a student you know, and you help them out, and they appreciate it.
4.2 Resource Prospecting
76
GH: Mm-hmm. You made a difference in their life.
Informant: Yeah. And there’s a bit of a human face on what you did. Because I mean you
do get students that appear at the desk frequently, so there might be ten students who you…
well, loads of students who you know by name, and who you say hello to in the corridor, or
you know, or who come and chat to you if you’re having lunch, and they might come over
and sit…so probably one where there was some interaction with students rather than just
like, ‘Yeah, here’s the letter.’
GH: Now, goodbye.
Informant: Goodbye, yeah…The best sort of time is if you can solve something, and
actually do something for somebody, and it’s appreciated, rather than just stamp, go,
stamp, go (Interview, August 28, 2007).
In addition, several of the BLEAPs shared how they suffered internal struggles in
Hunting & Gathering international students. They felt saddled with this task by
Command & Control, but did it in order to help feed both their EAP units and the HEI
at large. They felt pressured to succeed from above and often despised by those below
in the Center of Praxis. Such is often the case for those caught in the middle of the
Third Space.
4.3 Investment Servicing
Providing positive ‘instructional delivery’and other nurturing forms of support in order
to ensure greater overseas student loyalty to the HEI is defined as Investment Servicing.
Success results in increased resource flows through overseas student referrals. Service
properly provided in the present is an investment in the future. In business terms, this
practice is simply one of encouraging repeat sales. Some of the wider manifestations of
Investment Servicing can be observed in the proliferation of student services on neolib-
eral campuses, which began in earnest in the United States during the mid-1990s, on
UK campuses around 2003, and in Japan at campuses starting from around 2006.
A report by the Delta Cost Project (Desrochers et al. 2010, pp. 17–20) found that in the
United States, administrative management at most HEIs, especially the poorer state
universities, have significantly reduced funding for instruction and the hiring of new
full-time teachers, and instead have put massive amounts of money into student ser-
vices. Some of the main areas where money is invested can be seen in the hiring of
administrative support staff and the creation of attractive entertainment facilities for
greater student comfort. In a recent NewYork Times online debate, Mark Bauerline, a
professor of English at Emory University, commented:
Colleges need students. They need to attract the best ones they can and hold them until
graduation. So they create glossy promos for high school counselors, arrange campus tours
for high-schoolers and parents, and showcase the whole ‘Campus X experience.’ What
sells? Colleges promise great teachers and rigorous classes, yes, but what really grabs cus-
tomers are a state-of-the-art weight room, cool campus events (visiting rock bands, intra-
mural sports), [and] a glistening technology center (Bauerlein 2010).
These are all important investments not only for recruitment, but also for student
retention. Ronald Ehrenburg, a professor of Industrial and Labor Relations and
4 Hunting and Gathering
77
Economics at Cornell University and Director of the Cornell Higher Education
Research Institute, argues that, according to his research, ensuring that students are
satisfied with their campus experiences keeps larger numbers at their present univer-
sity rather than losing them to a competing HEI. For this reason, ‘a reallocation of
some funds, even from instruction, to student services, would likely increase persis-
tence and graduation rates’ (Ehrenberg 2010).
Within this trend at neoliberal HEIs, Tertiary EAP education must emphasize
‘student investment for enhanced retention,’ because it is often viewed more as a
campus service provider working with international students who have been recast
into the role of paying customers. Investment servicing requires that BLEAPs and
TEAPs must satisfy students in a manner similar to what might be found in the
customer service department of a large company. In the words of one informant at a
British HEI, ‘I think in a professional environment, our attitudes to how we deal
with students has changed. Not necessarily here at this university, but at [redacted]
University, you know, all those very cautious, and I am really cautious when I deal
with stuff at our students’ (Interview, August 28, 2007). Investment servicing as a
property of Hunting & Gathering explains why many BLEAPs in charge of EAP
programs frame their activities in terms of recruiting international students in order
to serve them, but equally, to serve students in order to recruit more:
Informant: I’m still out operating in this world of trying to bring money through a system
to support the system. Now, I sleep at night because I feel that I’m helping deliver a service
to students that they want and need. It’s education, it’s improvement, and if it’s, at this
point, which I think in this school, if it’s just mere acquisition of content knowledge in an
undergraduate degree, then great. If that’s what they want, then let’s give them the best
content acquisition knowledge available.
GH: Are you talking about international students?
Informant: Yeah, international students coming in.
GH: Okay.
Informant: And because… so I’m serving… I’m serving them and, you know, and I’m out
recruiting them to come here (Interview, November 6, 2008).
Effective EAP instructional delivery is intertwined with whether overseas stu-
dents have a sense of well-being. Many BLEAPs firmly believe that the students’
affective needs must be addressed first. Only then can second language acquisition
take place:
I look at the social aspects for the students. I believe that if their…needs are met, then they
are, you know…of…they are ready to learn a new language……they need to become com-
fortable there. The processes that I lead are the ones that, you know, uh, make sure that
they’ve got everything that they need to then start studying (Interview, May 10, 2006).
A number of challenges face BLEAPs wishing to use investment servicing as a
means of Hunting & Gathering. Many will want to keep their EAP units relatively
small to ensure international students are receiving enough care, seeing smaller
programs as facilitating more personalized services. This, however, runs counter to
the plans of those in Command & Control, who seek to increase the number of
students entering HE while hiring as little labor as possible. The result is that
BLEAPs find themselves either too shorthanded or too tired to provide the care they
4.3 Investment Servicing
78
would like to give to international learners. In response, BLEAPs may begin
searching for those closer to the Center of Praxis for help in investment servicing.
This is because seeking this support from traditional faculty at all of the sites in this
study ended in failure, as they were able to either send proposals to committees,
where pleas for help would slowly die, or leverage their present workload to avoid
new tasks. BLEAPs invariably turned to TEAPs, and assigned them with the task of
servicing students.
Viewing language teachers as a language service technician relates to what I will
discuss later in the chapter on Molding and Shaping, but it was noted during
fieldwork observations that the relative success of using TEAPs to service
international students depended upon the ideals that each TEAP had about his or her
professional identity and their relationship with Command & Control. If TEAPs felt
their participation in providing non-language instruction-related services to
international students was facilitating the agenda of Command & Control, in a
manner similar to the traditional faculty, they would thwart any investment servicing
by becoming extremely difficult to find on campus or by raising issues of fatigue
related to their present workload.
4.4 Milking the Cash Cow
In late July of 2009, a group of over 500 Indian international students staged a pro-
test outside the gates of Australia’s Sterling College. The event, which received
international coverage, highlighted the growing problem in recent years at HEIs that
have sublimated their duty of care to students for a neoliberal model, which frames
international students in term of being a ‘lucrative industry’ (Clayfield 2009).
International students are seen as a financial resource by both university systems
and their supporting auxiliary service providers. In the extreme case of Sterling
College, the institution suddenly went bankrupt after years of economic misman-
agement. All courses were cancelled without a refund. Overnight, hundreds of inter-
national students were turned into educational refugees: ‘We are not here for the
milking, we are not the cash cow,’ said former Sterling College student Sashi Ray,
‘We are here for education’ (Bryant 2009).
This ‘cash cow’ metaphor occurred enough times during conversations with
informants for me to make a note of it in field memos. Sometimes it emerged during
recorded interviews about international students and EAP, as in this response from
a BLEAP to my question about the nature of EAP in neoliberal HEIs:
Informant: …how’s it viewed? The phenomenon of EAP, how’s it viewed? (sighs deeply)
Taking out the historical context and why it probably started in the first place…
GH: Do you know that?
Informant: (long, cautious pause) …I think it was a cash cow for the Japanese. Their
English program sent like a ton of students…
GH: Really?
Informant: …a while back, like in the early 90s, and it just flowed with students and cash…
(Interview, November 28, 2005).
4 Hunting and Gathering
79
Referringtointernationalstudentsascashcowsisavoidedinpublicadministrative
HEI discourse, except when criticizing competitors (e.g. Dessoff 2007, p. 27).
Nevertheless, I settled on this in-vivo code because it and similar terms, such as
‘juicing’ or ‘squeezing,’ were seen by informants as apt metaphors for describing
the manner in which neoliberal HEI extract cash infusions from international stu-
dents by charging extra fees for auxiliary services no longer directly provided by the
university. These services, however, are often those that international students either
do not need or cannot use because of cultural, religious or linguistic reasons. Milking
also includes the practice of inflating prices for campus products and services far in
excess of their market value.
When discussing these issues with BLEAP informants, very frequently the
narrative of cuts in public educational support by neoliberal governments would
be cited as the primary cause:
Informant: I think it is a money concern, because the universities have been … the govern-
ment has been reducing its financial input into universities ever since Mrs. Thatcher. It’s
been reducing and it’s become that you are a business, you’ve got a market there, you’ve
got to go out and get your own money, and increasingly the government is reducing that
money, and so you find markets. And what’s the lucrative market at the moment?
International students.
GH: It’s interesting what you’re saying there, because I find that … and I’m not doing a lot
of work on studying metaphors in the traditional sense, but a lot of administrators that I’ve
spoken to, upper-level administrators, refer to international students often with metaphors
related to food. They call them for example slices of cake, pieces of the pie, butter on the
bread, cash cow, which is milking the cash cow; but oftentimes they just referred to as ‘the
numbers’. It’s interesting that.
Informant: I’ve heard things like slice of the cake and so on, that’s quite common. And milking
the cash cow is almost derogatory isn’t it, really? It’s a very negative term to use.
GH: Yes, it is.
Informant: Putting it another way, if the government had funded the universities in the
same way that they were doing …
GH: …Twenty-five, thirty years ago…
Informant: Yeah, or pre Mrs. Thatcher, then there wouldn’t be this huge drive to get
international students to come to British universities (Interview, October 31, 2008).
As another informant put it, international students are grouped in ‘herds’, and
because they are unaware of many aspects of their new country, they are vulnerable
to being quietly milked for extra resources at neoliberal HEIs.A TEAP, in discussing
these dynamics, observes that cash cow milking was not only a common practice at
American universities, it is a standard business practice used by American
corporations:
GH: They’re juicing the students then?
Informant: In my opinion yes. So they’re saying we’re not raising tuition, but actually
they’re just doing it in other fees. It’s just kind of like everything in the US right now,
all the utility companies, ‘we’re not raising our rates’ but they stick extra taxes on the
end but those aren’t raising our rates – we’re calling them user fees and they just add
them on the end.
GH: What, you mean since coming here they’ve got to pay these extra fees now?
Informant: Well I mean just it’s kind of the way the US whole system is turning, so like our
telephone is that way, our cable, our electricity, everything is going to … I mean ‘it’s not
4.4 Milking the Cash Cow
80
bad, we’re not raising it’but if you notice on the bottom, you say, well you’re not raising it,
like my cell phone is $40 a month, I’m up to $55 now – $15 of extra fees they just add on the
bottom. And that’s kind of the way our whole…
GH: Well that’s just lying.
Informant: That’s the way … it’s the trend I think in all of those things (Interview, October
26, 2009).
Cash cow milking also occurs when, as a cost cutting measure, non-core campus
services,suchasfood,lodgingandmedicalcare,areoutsourcedtolargecorporations.
In order to increase profits to their shareholders, these corporations regularly raise
the price of their services well beyond the rate of inflation. Each auxiliary service
group has its own mechanism and specific practices, so it is less a case of each HEI
with a secret cabal of ‘cash cow milkers’meeting in darkened rooms to decide upon
how to best exploit students. However, neoliberal HEIs can act as intermediaries for
the transfer of fees to these outsourced companies, and as will be seen below, some
within the university certainly benefit in the process. These practices were observed
at all of the major HEIs, but they were most visible in America. As an American
inspired form of globalization continues to reshape British and Japanese HEIs, it is
expected that milking strategies will become more visible in the years to come.
4.4.1 Examples of Overseas Program Milking
Because much of the milking of international students is diffused through many
services on campus and outside the direct purview of EAP, I will not seek to discuss
every aspect here. Instead, I will provide only one of the many examples of milking
as experienced in the NUGIS Overseas Program, where it has been attempted,
largely with success, in tuition, health service and room & board. I then will con-
sider the difficult role BLEAPs have in cash cow milking. The issue of TEAPs and
their part in sabotaging this practice will also be discussed. Exceptions and the
conditions facilitating this cash cow milking are at the end of this section.
Constant negotiation has been needed to limit attempts to milk NUGIS students.
A couple of years were spent in establishing fair tuition prices, but even then, extra
nonnegotiable fees for ‘technology’ and ‘health’ soon appeared. Milking was evi-
dent through the ‘health fee’, since it only allowed NUGIS students to enter the
facilities, but in order to use the health services, NUGIS students needed to pur-
chase outside special health insurance mediated by Polaris. The BLEAP at Polaris
explained the rationale behind such fees:
Informant: …we’re just not getting state appropriations or whatever, and that sort of
trickles down. And the end result is I’ve done exactly the same thing. I’ve passed costs
onto the end user, whereas before, I had absorbed some of them. Some of them we can’t
do, I mean, I guess what I… to be honest with you, I guess I could take that technology fee
and health fee, and roll it into the EAP tuition and just do a sort of ‘hidden tax’ type of
thing.
GH: Right.
Informant: And you’d never see it, and I could have left those…
4 Hunting and Gathering
81
GH: That’s a sneaky move…
Informant: …and increased EAP tuition, but for me it’s better to sort of say here’s
what… these are the costs that are coming down. EAP tuition stays exactly the same for
another year, and these are the additional costs. I’m doing what I can (Interview,
November 5, 2008).
Such admissions are at the juncture between resource prospecting and investment
servicing, since the intent is to disarm any ill will raised by milking procedures, to
continue bringing in resources for the program and to maintain rapport by portraying
oneself as a little fish in a big pond.
Greater difficulties with cash cow milking took place around room and board.
The privatization of campus room and board was one of the first cost-cutting mea-
sures instituted by many American state governments in the early 1980s. Since then,
virtually all state universities have outsourced their services to one of a very small
number of corporations that run this market with near monopolistic levels of con-
trol. At Polaris, because of the contractual agreement made between the university
and their service provider, all students living on campus were required to purchase
an expensive, non-refundable meal plan. All foodstuffs on campus were supplied by
the food service provider, and by contract, university faculty and professionals were
not allowed to order food deliveries from off-campus restaurants. Because faculty
and professional staff had only 30–45 min for lunch, most ended up eating on cam-
pus at prices far higher than what was charged for similar products off campus.
For several years, NUGIS students were unknowingly charged for the most
expensive campus meal plan, a high-calorie option chosen by campus athletes and
the more fulsome students living on campus. NUGIS students were returning to
Japan embarrassingly overweight and with large unspent surpluses in their meal
plans. Unless the surplus was consumed before a certain deadline, the money would
be recouped by the food service company without a refund. Frequently, NUGIS
students went on spending sprees at the university candy shop near the deadline
instead of losing their surpluses.
No one at NUGIS was aware of more economical meal plans until I discovered
them by chance. When I brought this to the attention of Command & Control
administrators, I was told that they had only wished to insure that NUGIS students
did not risk going hungry, and that ultimately, it was my responsibility to discover
such alternative options on my own. Afterwards, even while on the lightest meal
plan, it was observed that students were still returning overweight and with lost
surpluses. I again approached Polaris to see if an à la carte or ‘pay as you go’ sys-
tem could be instituted so that students would only pay for what they actually
consumed.
I worked my way up to the administrative dean in Command & Control, who
ironically was responsible for both food and health services. I crafted my argument
to highlight the conflict of interest in requiring students to purchase more food than
they were able to consume, thus causing them to become overweight, which nega-
tively affected their health. This contradiction granted me a hearing, but the request
was eventually denied, since the small number of NUGIS students did not warrant
the potential expense incurred by making changes. In addition, the corporation
4.4 Milking the Cash Cow
82
controlling food service on campus did not want to allow special rules that could
open the door for changes at other universities. The Polaris BLEAP lamented with
me about this situation, but the bottom line, I was told, was that the outside vendors
wished to maintain a profit margin for their shareholders, some of whom were
senior members of Polaris administration. As the BLEAP explained, there was little
that Command & Control was willing to do to challenge the situation. The names of
the corporations have been anonymized:
[the president] has personally invested in SuperFeed as a corporation and it probably
would serve me well to do it as well; that’s a very, very profitable company and we’re
doing our good fair share of making sure of that <chuckles>. Every university is,
that’s the nature of it…And they basically, I mean except for your smallest of liberal
arts colleges that still run, and they have this the old ideal of the ‘60s and they’ve got
all their own staffed, benefited people, their full time cooks and servers and stuff and
they operate it like that – except for that small percentage everyone is on MegaEat or
SuperFeed, everybody. And just it’s the normal operations and the way it is (Interview,
October 27, 2009).
NUGIS was told that their students were free to live off campus, which both
sides knew not to be real option, as this raised concerns about student safety and
few felt that NUGIS students could deal with the financial costs or linguistic
challenges of living off campus for a semester. The offer to ‘choose’ was under-
stood in its real light – take it or leave it. NUGIS administration begrudgingly
decided to eat the cost, and the incident resulted in years of smoldering
resentment.
A few years later, Polaris changed vendors and dealt with the conflict of interest
issues, after the appointment of a new president and a complete reshuffling of
the senior administrative management team. However, this incident is another
example of the degree to which neoliberalism effects ethical decisions in corporate
universities. Where before, universities had a parental role (in loco parentis),
the role has perceptible shifted towards one where the former parent preys upon
the young.
4.4.2 Role of BLEAPs
BLEAPs face a number of challenges with cash cow milking, depending upon their
beliefs regarding the concept of in loco parentis. Because the ‘university of culture’
has been dismantled in order to pave the way for HEIs to be reconstructed into cor-
poratized knowledge production centers, (Trakman 2008; Cohen and Kisker 2009),
they may be tempted to protect international students. BLEAPs who engaged in
challenging such activities met with significant resistance both horizontally and
from above. Exhaustion often resulted:
I’m not trying to make excuses about why it’s not happened. There is… there are battles
that are chosen to be fought and…I’ve died on many hills, and fought those battles. I’ve
come across as a principled person on many things, and you move on, because you
4 Hunting and Gathering
83
don’t… there’s just… there’s no win…And you move on, and there’s really… that’s really
sort of how it is. Rightness and how things operate… I don’t know how it is at other
schools. Maybe it’s worse than this. I really don’t know. But there are some things
where you just go, ‘I’m just not going there.’ And frankly, it’s not my biggest battle
(Interview, October 29, 2007).
In all of the cases that I observed, BLEAPs who challenged milking at their HEI
were compelled to desist or risk jeopardizing their career. Those who persisted
began their first steps towards a Sinking BLEAP trajectory. Politically astute
BLEAPS in neoliberal HEIs did not challenge cash cow milking, but instead redi-
rected the attention of students towards the benefits received on campus, and muf-
fled the voice of TEAPs seeking to thwart milking strategies.
4.4.3 Response of TEAPs
Among many of the TEAPs who contributed to this research as informants, apart
from their official mission of instructing international students for passing the IELTs
or TOEFL tests, one of their self-proclaimed roles was to serve as student
advocates:
…really, we have kind of… we really have three roles, right? One is, yes, to help them
improve language, but that’s mostly the student’s responsibility. We just provide tools,
and… and access. And the second is we work on general study skills and university knowl-
edge, so that they can succeed, because that’s a big problem. You know, students come here
and they don’t know about time management, how American university works. You know,
how… what is it a professor’s going to… going to expect. How to use the things on campus.
That type of thing. And then our third part is general living… being an advocate, helping
more on a personal level (Interview, November 6, 2008).
At all of the venues where I conducted interviews and field observations, TEAPs
took an active role of watching out and standing up for students if they felt interna-
tional students were being exploited on campus:
Informant 1: …we never find out about it until they’ve already done it and then we call and
say, ‘What’s this fee for?’We don’t find out about any of those so…
Informant 2: …Yeah, well we only know about that computer usage fee and the health
center fee…
Informant 1: (grimly)…the health center.
GH: (Sighs) It’s always money, every time I come it’s always, ‘well you know there’s just
that universities are starved for money, just starved.’
Informant 1: Well I think it comes down to the … I mean we always talk about there’s a
fine line between … not fine, there’s a grey area between your mission which is supposed to
be providing education, and the money situation, you know? At what point do you cross
that line and you’re no longer really ethical? Because I think that’s … that’s kind of, we do
that in our department, we’re always fighting and…we’re advocating… you know. If they’re
going to charge us if we get the service, otherwise don’t charge us, that type of thing.
GH: And then you get the students, international students are charged for services they
can’t access.
4.4 Milking the Cash Cow
84
Informant 1: (nodding affirmatively) Mm-hm.
Informant 2: Yes, unless we step up and say… ‘No’. Because a lot of times they just say,
‘Oh well you just have to do it.’And we say no. I think we’re pretty good about finding that,
when Informant 1 has to do a phone call and then…(facial expression of bold defiance)
(Interview, October 26, 2009).
Such advocacy puts TEAPs at odds with Command & Control and BLEAPs. At
one university, the contingency strategy was a memo to all international students to
direct their questions about any problems to the administrative professionals in the
International Office, and TEAPs were ordered to restrict their activities to language
teaching only.
4.4.4 Covariances and Conditions
A discussion of this property of Hunting & Gathering would be incomplete without
a brief consideration of exceptions. At one of the universities where I conducted
interviews, an American Dreamweaver university with a respected history, well-
established endowments and ample funding from generational donors, there were
very few examples of the type of milking observed at the younger (and arguably
poorer) land grant universities committed to mass production. Only recently had a
nominal ‘international student fee’ been added to the costs of entering their EAP
program, and I was told this happened only after serious consternation. Students
were informed up front that the fee would be used to cover the cost of helping them
with immigration forms and navigating the various service offices on campus. In
addition, I was unable to find examples of milking at any of the Japanese universi-
ties studied during my field research. Whenever I discussed the practice of hidden
fees charged only after students were committed to a program, I was often met with
stares of disbelief. Both academic and administrative informants thought that such
practices were inappropriate for an educational institution, suggesting that, for the
moment at least, the concept of in loco parentis may be stronger at Japanese HEIs,
especially since most have only recently started to neoliberalize in terms of policy
and strategies aimed at teachers. I theorize therefore that cash cow milking at the
neoliberal HEI is more likely to take place in the following conditions:
• In HEIs with significant levels of financial difficulty, which are often hidden
from public view,
• Where there is cross-cultural misunderstanding and service misuse by interna-
tional students unaccustomed to Western capitalist systems,
• With the creep of auxiliary providers to limit purchasing freedom and competi-
tion on campus,
• With the tendency of university administration for creating bureaucratic processes
aimed ostensibly for the equitable treatment of large numbers of domestic stu-
dents, resulting in inequities for international students who, because of linguis-
tic, cultural or economic reasons, do not fit the normal parameters.
4 Hunting and Gathering
85
The risks involved with this form of Hunting & Gathering are that blatant and/or
repeated incidents of cash cow milking may become a liability to an EAP unit and
its supporting HEI. Once students are made aware of such practices by TEAPs, rap-
port with the HEI is lost through perceptions of unfairness and exploitation. Future
attempts at investment servicing will then usually fail.
4.5 Resource Leeching
BLEAPs frequently work at either the same or at slightly reduced levels of budget-
ing as in years past, so employing extra help is not an option. More often than not,
they are on their own:
Informant: you know, if I had, I don’t know, on the scale of more manpower, there’re be a
lot more innovative things going on around here…the thing is, is that I think through, sheer
workload people are stretched very thin at Polaris and they are left to deal with what they
can…I mean I, I would have no incentive at this point to go and do something new right
now…all the processes I manage right now are about all, all I can handle…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …and even probably more so. I’ve got three-hundred and some odd e-mails a
week…
GH: Wow.
Informant: And I’m still, just, you know, you just, catch up and delete, three word
replies and catch up and delete and three wor…you know and that’s really all, you know,
I really have time for. I’ve got so many constituents…I’ve really…I wish I really had a
dedicated secretary but uh…I would ra-I would give, if they said they would give eighty
thousand dollars or a secretary, I’d say secretary…or a coordinator, actually (Interview,
November 20, 2005).
The problem of having to ‘carve out time’is now a common feature of professional
life in neoliberal HEIs around the world, and one that is seen as a toxic aspect of uni-
versity life (Anderson 2006b). Some BLEAPs attempt to address all the tasks received
from both above and below, hoping this will free up time for research or strategic
planning. To their rue, they will soon discover that successfully finishing such tasks
often results in receiving even more work, until burnout begins to take its toll:
Informant: (wearily) I can…sort of, recruit a little bit more for the EAP program. With a
little bit of time…try to, get something planned…but when you, when you…don’t have more
than 30 minutes in a day to devote to sitting down and doing something large and
strategic…
GH: Right, Mm-hm.
Informant: …and you can carve that out, but…I’m tired. I can carve out three hours here,
and I still get every phone call that filters back, ‘oh he’s in his office, yeah just a second.’You
know, and that’s training issues and stuff. But I, I would rather…make an impact, with the
EAP program, and be able to lobby for that and spend more time…I think that’s what I,
I see it as…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: (more agitated)…is that I, that I…I’m not effective because I think the position,
just doesn’t, allow you to be effective…they need a full-time director over there at EAP…
you need someone over there that’s going to be, I think, that’s going to be innovative, is
4.5 Resource Leeching
86
going to create…a good program that really truly benefits the university on a larger level.
That takes, takes a lot of work.
GH: Sure does…
Informant: It really is easy to just sort of…sit back on your heels, and, and just, you
know…plug, plug the holes. It really is. And that’s, and that’s really sort of all that you can
manage on a day to day basis, is that you, you make sure that things are running that need
to be running, and that’s what you’re doing (Interview, November 28, 2005).
Simply engaging in the daily maintenance necessary to keep the SPU running is
often insufficient in the long run, and I observed how the weight of this work even-
tually caused some BLEAPs to become exhausted, embittered, ineffective, and to
begin on a downward trajectory. BLEAPs must demonstrate that they are satisfying
the actual institutional aspirations of the HEI. In order to accomplish this, and still
deal with the daily flood of tasks coming from all directions, many BLEAPs engage
in Resource Leeching.
The term ‘Resource Leeching,’ as used in this grounded theory, has similarities
to the Internet term of ‘leeching’, which is when people use software to mine infor-
mation from other sites and leave only token returns. As a Hunting & Gathering
strategy, it is far more than the economic concept of ‘free riding’ or of task delega-
tion. It is the purposeful utilization of volunteers, co-workers, educators, students or
other talented individuals to accomplish innovative projects and/or to lighten the
weight of increased workloads. Like Cash Cow Milking, it derives from managerial
ideas starting as far back as the 1990s, where ‘consumer manufacture’, a strategy
which puts consumers at the end of the chain for goods and services, required the
customer to assemble products or complete service functions by themselves
(Huczynski 1992, p. 19). The prevalence of this concept in the early twenty-first
century can be seen in training customers to clear away rubbish before leaving fast
food restaurants, selling products that require considerable assembly by the cus-
tomer, in automated banking services, automated airline ticketing, and retailers such
as WalMart or Tesco, which urge customers to check out their own goods and to pay
into a machine. The savings to the corporations are significant, as consumers essen-
tially provide free labor.
In the context of EAP at neoliberal HEIs, BLEAPs who engage in resource
leeching are often on the lookout for isolated individuals either inside or outside the
university who yearn to showcase some talent or ability in exchange for public rec-
ognition by the university and to share in the prestige of being connected to the
HEI. The benefits to the BLEAPs from Resource Leeching are often substantial,
while returns to students recruited for special projects consist of ‘connect[ing] their
academic studies with real-world experience’ (Service Learning and Volunteering
Opportunities 2010). Observe the excerpt from the interview with a BLEAP dis-
cussing new rules from the US government regarding the tracking of international
students recruited for the EAP Unit:
Informant: So there’s two of us that are located in the International Student Center, and we
both report to the dean of students. Both of us make the exact same salary. I have 20 hours
of assistance a week in producing I20s. Without getting really super boring, immigration
regulations have been broadened so that they’re more beneficial to some students in the
4 Hunting and Gathering
87
United States, but the heightened reporting requirements that are placed upon international
student services offices have basically taken us from one paradigm to another in terms of
tracking and maintaining students. The new paradigm is that if those students stay, we track
them through to the finish. So we track them through and we’re responsible for reporting on
their address, when they start and stop any jobs in that training, and where those jobs are.
We’re required to report all of that.
GH: To the government?
Informant: To the… to the CEVUS database, which is the government. And it’s a one-by-
one field that full-time, or… well, which paid staff need to do. And it’s taken a workload,
and I’ve already gone to the board of… to the… to the cabinet to request funding to go and
move that position to a full-time position, and it was denied. And so we don’t have that. So
what’s happened is, is that it’s pulled me back into CEVUS and to maintaining CEVUS, and
making sure that we’re compliant with those immigration regulations, that we’re keeping up
with those students, and right now, because we don’t have, we don’t have the money to pay
for a really fancy database, I’m working with a project team of Indian Masters of Applied
Computer Science students to make a database for us so that we can keep up with all of this,
and keep up with tracking students, and from the time that they apply all the way through
(Interview, November 5, 2008).
In this instance, the BLEAP receives a major work increase at the same salary and
with a denial of resources to hire extra workers. In response, this informant seeks to
lighten the workload by recruiting the expertise of a group of international students,
who created a database tracking system that would have cost a considerable amount of
money had it been developed by professionals outside the university. Resource leech-
ing is intrinsically motivated by the need to find cheap labor solutions to increased
work burdens, and to demonstrate to superiors how the BLEAP can mobilize people in
innovative, strategic programs without incurring large financial costs to the institution.
Resource Leeching becomes easier to identify when one ascertains how much a
BLEAP or member of Command & Control would have requested in remuneration for
the same work that is provided free of charge from students, teachers or other volun-
teers. The internal and external aspects of Resource Leeching will now be considered.
4.5.1 Internal Resource Leeching
Internal Resource Leeching centers on marginalized members within the neoliberal
HEI, such as international students or TEAPs. In the EAP context, leeching of this
type is common, since EAP is a primary conduit for international student recruit-
ment. EAP at these HEIs is a means to an end, and so too are the people connected
to its functions.
The transformation of EAP from an emphasis on language instruction and cultural
inculcation to that of recruitment (at least from the viewpoint of Command & Control)
is one result of what will be discussed later in the chapter on the social process of
Molding and Shaping, but in terms of Hunting & Gathering, the change in the expected
roles of TEAPs and BLEAPs addresses important priorities for neoliberal HEIs. The
multicultural talents and communicative skills of BLEAPs and TEAPs, which were
acquired for the task of educating and training learners, are leeched for recruitment.
4.5 Resource Leeching
88
The question of whether TEAPs and BLEAPs equally appreciate the transformation of
their roles in this manner is another issue entirely, but from the viewpoint of Command
& Control, requiring TEAPs and BLEAPs to pull their own weight and recruit interna-
tional students is not only practical, it is a valuable contribution to the HEI.
BLEAPs will also be on the lookout for international students willing to aid in
Hunting & Gathering. Certainly, some BLEAPs still utilize students in the tried and
true ‘word of mouth’approach by encouraging international students to recommend
friends and family from abroad. There is nothing new here, and HEIs have relied on
referrals for as long as there have been universities (Klafter 2008). What has
changed, however, has been the focused intent of BLEAPs and Command & Control
on actively encouraging the recruitment of students by students.
As an example from one of the HEIs in this study, at NUGIS, schoolstay students
often return to Japan enthusiastic about their overseas experiences, yet find it diffi-
cult to relate to classmates who did not go abroad. This leaves many feeling isolated.
In response, one member of the academic ranks of NUGIS Command & Control
developed a program similar in scope to the World Expo program at the University
of Lawrence in the United States, where recently-recruited international students
showcase traditional aspects of their national culture to local residents, and publicly
highlight the image of diversity to which the university aspires (Katz 2006, p. 58).
In the NUGIS program, groups of schoolstay students visit local primary and
secondary schools. Some of the institutions were those NUGIS students had
attended when younger, which gave them an increased measure of respect and rap-
port at the schools, since Japanese tend to maintain social contacts made at primary
and secondary schools long into adulthood. Other school visits were arranged by
administrative staff from NUGIS. During the visits, NUGIS students would perform
skits, give experiential lessons on global issues and talk to their younger peers about
their adventures in the NUGIS schoolstay program.
The program has provided fresh and engaging educational experiences for young
students and has offered a way for NUGIS students to share with others as an
‘International Instructor.’However, there are other benefits that were equally impor-
tant for NUGIS, as I was to learn during scores of faculty meetings and in my role
as a faculty member of the university’s PR Committee. The gist of these meetings
and discussions with administrative managers was that a new approach was needed
in recruiting new students. University teachers were not as effective as recruiters,
because most were old enough to be the students’parents (or grandparents), and this
generation gap was keeping them from truly connecting with secondary students
and persuading them to come to NUGIS. Another issue was that, unless Japanese
High School students have a strong aspiration to attend a certain HEI, most choose
a university based on the advice of their homeroom teacher, who in Japan serves in
roles ranging from student counselor to a substitute parent (Shimahara 1986;
Arimoto 1995; Gjerde and Shimizu 1995). Local homeroom teachers were not
advising students to go to NUGIS in sufficient numbers.
With these problems at the forefront, even more than providing a creative outlet for
schoolstay students, it was hoped that the program would serve to reach potential
students at a younger age before they had started seriously thinking about a university.
4 Hunting and Gathering
89
Using university students, it was thought, would be more successful, as they could more
easily relate to the younger students and become for them a potential senpai – an inter-
generational elder who leads the younger ones (kōhai) in the way they should go. From
the magic of those near-peer, senpai-kōhai-fueled classroom visits, it was believed that
more students would eventually come to NUGIS, making the program an important
feeder for the university. In addition, because the schoolstay students provided their
recruitment services free of charge, the program was extremely economical. NUGIS
has started to receive an increase in new students inspired by the program events, with
some stating their desire to participate in the American Overseas Program.
Using students in the recruitment of students is especially effective during hard
economic times, when growing number of HEIs are competing for decreasing student
populations. Because enthusiastic NUGIS students were seen to have greater potential
of marketing the university to their younger peers than older faculty members, they
were also brought in to participate in the university’s ‘Open Campus’ events. During
these events, they wear special T-shirts and spend the day giving word-of-mouth tes-
timonials to high school students shopping for a tertiary educational experience.
In the United States, however, many HEIs have moved beyond simple word-of-
mouth referrals to ‘word of mouse’ approaches (Darrup-Boychuck 2007, p. 51).
BLEAPs are setting up study blogs, in which international and domestic students
contribute stories about their countries and overseas experiences. In an approach
that mirrors the Facebook model, BLEAPs carefully monitor contributions and
build a database of names and interests:
the most successful campaigns are those that fully integrate all of a campus’ marketing
activities, from using the Internet to generate initial inquiries, to building a database from
which counselors extract student names based on the geographic regions they intend to
visit, and then sending special invitations to those selected students (Darrup-Boychuck
2007, p. 51).
This form of resource leeching is actively used at Suffolk University in Boston.
When domestic students who have contributed to the university’s international stud-
ies blog mention any interest of going abroad, this is flagged in the database, and
they are invited to become a ‘Country Ambassador’ for the university. If they agree,
they are given the contact information of potential international students living in
the country where the ambassador is going, and are urged to try to recruit them for
Suffolk University. The same sort of ambassadorship is extended to graduating
international students returning to their home country (Katz 2006, p. 56). The
returns to Suffolk University are considerable, since the students pay for their own
transportation and recruit on behalf of the university commission-free.
Blogging is a property of the e-recruitment strategies mentioned earlier in this
chapter. Observe the aspects of resource leeching in an article intended for Command
& Control administrators in charge of International Affairs:
If your office is considering incorporating blogs as part of an overall marketing strategy or
as an additional learning exercise for students, these tips will hopefully aid you in creating
a successful blog. This can enable your campus to better promote education abroad
opportunities to interested students. A blog can be an effective tool for increased interest in
studying abroad. It is a way to meet students at their level. Because students are already
4.5 Resource Leeching
90
using and reading blogs in large numbers, it makes sense to take advantage of students’
technological savvy and make blogs a part of education abroad on your campus. Plus, it is
a relatively inexpensive marketing tool. There is usually no cost to set up a blog (especially
through the resources listed) and even though it will require staff time to monitor and set up
the blogs, the effort is marginal compared with the potential gain (Reinig 2008, p. 51).
The use of students as PR props and recruiters via service learning and/or cultural
experience programs is not the only way in which talent, time and labor are leeched.
Increasingly at neoliberal HEIs, the travel of teachers to academic conferences abroad
or other educational ventures is linked to recruitment. A number of Wensleydale
informants spoke privately about how their participation in Asian TEFL conferences
was not only to maintain professional contacts, but were vital for student recruitment
on distance learning programs. Observe the following response from the chair of a
humanities department at Polaris and an Upwardly Mobile BLEAP to my suggestion
of setting up a departmental level symposium with NUGIS:
GH: See one thing that would strengthen it is we have faculty at, you know, who really want
to have professional friendships with people here, with other faculty members here. And
that would certainly open up all sorts of doors, because once there’s more and more faculty
members interacting with your faculty members here, then when it comes to…
Chair: (cutting in)…I think that’s possible, we’ll have to get really creative with simple
things like getting people there. I mean we’re in a radically different world than in 2001 or
‘2 where [we] would get on a plane and…fly to Japan and say, ‘We’re going to NUGIS to…’
essentially do what you’re doing now. Unless we connected to a recruiting trip…
BLEAP: (jumping in enthusiastically) …or a program maybe, programming improvement,
you need to have an outcome tied to the trip.
GH: (taken aback) So it has to be tied to some form of money generation or financial gen-
eration for the university before you get permission to go?
BLEAP: (laughing quietly)
Chair: (Confused. Looking at BLEAP). You’re laughing.
BLEAP: (Looking at Chair and then directed at GH) I know sort of from past conversations
where you’re going with this.
GH: (resignedly sighing and slightly embarrassed)Yeah, I’m sorry (Interview, October 26, 2009).
Upwardly Mobile TEAPs aspiring to become BLEAPs also use resource leeching.
In Japan and elsewhere, an example of this can be seen in the development of ‘near
peer’ programs, in which the more advanced students are recruited as volunteers to
help as teacher’s aides in educating less proficient learners in the classroom (Hu 2005;
Rollinson 2005; Morra and Romano 2009). The near peer gives advice and models the
language to younger peers by showing what is possible in terms of language profi-
ciency, if they continue studying. Near peers are often showcased in the EAP program
recruitment literature and are likely to volunteer for Open Campus events.
4.5.2 External Resource Leeching
External Resource Leeching focuses on community members who could provide
educational experiences for international students. I observed many examples of
this sort of activity at Polaris when I sought economical solutions to the ever-rising
4 Hunting and Gathering
91
costs of the schoolstay program. As an example, the following excerpt is in the
context of an American Cultural Studies class at Polaris, where the lecturer who had
taught the course for several years no longer found the class to be worth the effort,
after it was reduced from three hours to one hour in an attempt to mitigate rising
program costs. We enter the interview with the dean in charge of the lecturer’s
department:
GH: …it’s not going to continue like this for a long time, this one-hour course. Something’s
going to have to change, and so that’s something I have to tell the people back at home.
Informant: Yeah. And, you know, it’s possible… well, let me back up. If we could, don’t
mean to put you in the middle, but if you could help articulate what they really want from
that experience. It’s possible that we could find other ways for providing that experiences,
different from a one-hour course that (name redacted) would teach. For instance, could we
do, you know, where you spend two weeks or three weeks with this person coming in and
talking about X, and then two or three weeks twice a week where this person comes in and
talks about Y. The way to approach it might be, is if we could have… what are the goals,
what are the purposes of that? And then what are the other ways to meet that purpose?
It wouldn’t always have to be a faculty member. It could be a staff member. It could be a
community member. If you’re talking about doing some things with the culture, (name of a
retired teacher in the community) coming and talking about something like that. He’d get a
kick out of doing something like that.
GH: You can do that with a team of academics. A team of community academics.
Informant: That’s right. Right. A team of cultural experts. And that’s anybody who could
tell you about what they do, and then they’re an expert in that part of the culture…
GH: (affected American Cowboy accent) …let me tell y’all about Skoal…
Informant: (amused) There you go! (Interview, October 29, 2007).
Leeching not only happens when the university seeks community members to fill
the gaps in educational programs, it is also true that outside businesses and entrepre-
neurs can profit handsomely from the labor and imaginative knowhow of students:
Wisconsin entrepreneur Kerry Tolzmann dreamed of transforming his 33-acre cranberry
bog into a cranberry empire – “the biggest single farm on the planet.” But he had absolutely
no idea how to raise the more than $20 million he needed to cash in on the red-hot worldwide
demand for cranberries. What he needed was, well, cheap advice. So the former professional
water skier – and owner of a ski school – turned to the Weinert Applied Ventures Program
at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a two-year-old business course that matches its
students with local companies. The cost to Tolzmann? Zip.
If you still think of universities as ivory-tower dream worlds – think again. As studies of
entrepreneurship grow in popularity at the nation’s B schools…free hands-on advice and
analysis from graduate students is becoming an increasingly important component of many
school curricula. In return for putting time and effort into working with students, the entrepre-
neur gets their energy, enthusiasm, and perspective, not to mention the oversight of a business
professor who also might provide valuable networking connections (Berman 1997).
Although the students received over 1,000 h of practical business training, the
entrepreneur acquired 20 million dollars without sharing the dividends with his stu-
dent helpers. This approach has led to the myriads of business incubators springing
up at HEIs across the United States, UK, and within the past 5 years in Japan.
Van Maanen et al. (1982), inspired by Murray Edelman (1964), poignantly
express the power imbalance that I find to be at the heart of extreme forms of
resource leeching: ‘The powerful gain rewards of the material sort while the
4.5 Resource Leeching
92
weak gain (at best) rewards of the symbolic kind. Ceremony may not be difficult
to digest but the celebrants may find themselves hungry’ (Van Maanen et al.
1982, p. 11).
Resource Leeching within the domain of Tertiary EAP relates to the drive for
diversity, which Command & Control administrators advocate through increasing
the presence of large numbers of underprepared international students on campus.
A senior administrative informant explains:
Informant: When I think of diversity, I think of the word in its more traditional meaning,
which means differences, and so that includes international diversity. But when I say inter-
national diversity, why is that good? We know that it’s best, they interact with and begin to
have an understanding of other people’s cultures, and understand that other cultures, it’s
not just that other cultures are different, and what some of those idiosyncrasies are and
either respect them, some will laugh at them…but also understand that different cultures
view the world differently. Why is that important? Because hopefully that broadens our
perspective so that our ability to make decisions is enriched and so we’re making educated
decisions rather than just something based on my own understanding and what I know. And
the other thing is that sure globalization and internationalization of things and working
with negotiating and recognizing that we’re an ever larger society than we once were.
GH: You’re talking about basically business?
Informant: Correct. Correct. And so … and trying to give, I guess the other thing is to give
them a little broader worldview, the students, and for students that cannot go overseas for
a study abroad experience, well we’re trying to bring a little bit of study abroad here to the
class. So that’s why (Interview, November 27, 2006).
Margaret Spellings, a former US Secretary of Education writes, ‘The United
States needs to produce a globally literate citizenry, which is critical to the nation’s
continued success in the global economy. The Commission calls for higher educa-
tion to put greater an emphasis on international education, including foreign lan-
guage instruction and study abroad, in order to ensure that graduates have the
skills necessary to function effectively in the global workforce’ (Spellings 2007).
The drive to recruit international students relates in part to allowing domestic
students opportunities to leech off their foreignness. Administrators in many neo-
liberal HEIs see international students as teaching materials for training American
students in how to succeed in global business (Deardorff and Hunter 2006;
Hulstrand 2008).
A tenet of neoliberal governance, Command & Control seeks to maintain
surpluses by increasing the workload of a shrinking number of BLEAPs. The walls
which once protected and separated both students and the institution from the out-
side business world are now becoming more permeable, thus allowing entrepre-
neurs to access talent from without and within. It cannot be denied that educational
opportunities are being created for students in this venture, but important questions
will need to be answered in the months and years to come. Some of these are be
whether the growing number of programs designed to give students real-world
experiences are truly in their best interests, or whether such innovative projects are
simply a means of bandaging institutional wounds caused by HE’s adoption of an
unsustainable business model?
4 Hunting and Gathering
93
4.6 Chapter Summary
The properties described in this chapter, resource prospecting, investment servicing,
resource leeching and milking cash cows, were only a few that occurred in the
collected field data, but they were nevertheless the ones which had the greatest
level of explanatory and conceptual density. Even so, none of the Blended EAP
Professionals needed to engage in all these forms of Hunting & Gathering every
day. Large stretches of time were spent in simply maintaining their SPU. The
intensity of Hunting & Gathering also was moderated by the status of their HEI,
and where each was located along the spectrum between the teaching of cultural
knowledge and training in vocational skills.
Hunting & Gathering is only one interconnected process in this grounded theory
of EAP in corporate universities. Like veins and capillaries, some of the processes
have aspects that branch out to Weighing & Measuring. This crucial process is the
subject of the next chapter.
4.6 Chapter Summary
95
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2_5
Chapter 5
Weighing and Measuring
GH: The culture here has changed to a much stronger business model…
BLEAP: Yeah. Its…yeah, I mean, uh…the Quality, the Quality Systems approach is basically
a very firm business model. For administration, from our point-of-view, it tends to be…
very…ah…very…business oriented. You plan, forecast, and measure and evaluate…and,
and, re…reset for goals and you, you follow this process, and you try to bring in this…
second loop of learning and then go out and benchmark and see if you’re doing everything
right. I think that’s a trend. And…going towards the, you know, a something that you need
to make sure that you’re efficient and effective…
GH: Mm-hm.
BLEAP: … and you get the most bang for the buck and everything’s measured (Interview,
November 20, 2005).
5.1 Introduction
Because external assessment organizations require empirical evidence of educa-
tional quality in order to fund HEIs (Trow 1996; Alexander 2000; Brennan and
Shah 2000; Leckey and Neill 2001; Asonuma 2002), BLEAPs and others within
Command & Control dedicate considerable time to Weighing & Measuring.
Simply put, Weighing & Measuring relates to the external and internal strategies
for determining the quality of educational plans, programs and people. What
sets this concept apart from what is commonly referred to as assessment in the
scholarly literature is the nuanced distinction of weighing, which relates to the
often-unseen qualitative beliefs of organizational elites, to which all others must
conform, and measuring, which centers on quantitative efforts in neoliberal
HEIs to demonstrate educational excellence and justify one’s existence in the
organization.
After a brief consideration of external and internal factors pertaining to Weighing
& Measuring, I will focus upon neoliberal Mass Provider HEIs as I discuss strategies
96
that were either discussed by BLEAPs or observed in the field. Implications for
international students and TEAPs will also be noted.
5.2 Contextual Factors in the Weighing & Measuring
of Higher Education
When addressing the external and internal dynamics that contextualize Weighing &
Measuring, the question of weighing and measuring according to what is almost cer-
tain to emerge. Ewell (1991) and Gillies (2008) respond by explaining that the assess-
ment procedures which support Weighing & Measuring are empowered by what is
sometimes called ‘the cult of quality’ (Gillies 2008, p. 689). Definitions of quality in
HE highlight value for money, value to stakeholders (primarily the students and out-
side employers) and usefulness to HEI management, whether it be product-based,
manufacturing-based or transcendent (Garvin 1988; Seymour 1992; Biggs 2001;
Koslowski 2006, pp. 282–283). Quality is the gold standard by which all HEIs are
weighed and measured, which is why Fitz-Gibbon (1998, p. 6) argues that when ‘con-
sidering quality in education we shall have to consider the nature of assessment.’
Fig. 5.1 Contextual dynamics and theoretical categories
5 Weighing and Measuring
97
5.2.1 External Factors
The measurement of quality has always been a major concern in HE. In the past,
it was undertaken by administrators for maintaining external accountability to
the State and to showcase the wealth of knowledge contained within a particu-
lar institution (Koslowski 2006, p. 281). Unfortunately, this transcendent,
‘notion of quality,’ write Harvey and Green (1993, p. 11), ‘does not offer bench-
marks against which to measure quality. It is apodictic – one instinctively knows
quality. The traditional view in education [was] that universities embody quality
and thus do not need to demonstrate it.’ With the exception of privileged sec-
tions of Ivory Tower HEIs, the transcendent view of quality had lost its currency
at all of the universities surveyed for this research, and had been replaced by
manufacturing-based management perspectives, such as Six Sigma, the Japan
Accreditation Board for Engineering Education (JABEE), and Total Quality
Management (TQM). These require constant assessment so that the SPUs of
Mass Higher Education can run at peak efficiency. Embedded within external
quality assessment routines is the belief that Quality is something that is quan-
tifiable. Barcan (1996) observes that Quality’s ‘mysterious acquisition of an
upper-case ‘Q” signifies ‘a shift from an adjective to a noun – from an attribute
to a commodity.’ Birnbaum (2000, p. 197) adds that these beliefs, based in
positivist assumptions, lead external stakeholders not only to ‘emphasize quan-
tification; some go to the extreme of claiming that if something cannot be
measured, it cannot be valued.’ Examples of these views are easily found within
the literature, as in Leckey and Neill (2001, p. 20), who opine that ‘the UK
higher education system has always prided itself on the quality of education it
provides for its students. For the first time perhaps, quantifiable proof of the
veracity of this claim is now available.’
External Weighing & Measuring was frequently mentioned during interviews
with Command & Control and Upwardly Mobile BLEAP informants:
GH: (continuing the discussion on Quality) What’s it for? What’s the advantage?
Informant: (Long, pensive pause) Bragging rights.
GH: (Surprised) In what way would it be bragging rights? Because no one else has
had it?
Informant: (Laughs) Yeah. What it says is…where there is a corporation, manufacturing,
service, medical, education, it says that you not only have in place high quality but you keep
measuring it, you keep looking at what other institutions are doing and how you fit. We can’t
be Harvard but we can find other institutions that are much like us, that are state supported,
not private, that serve a variety of programs, and how do our students score versus theirs?
How do our faculty, how does are faculty do? Do they go out and give papers and do
research compared to others? And what you’re trying to say is ‘we do it best’ (Interview,
November 28, 2005).
It is here thatWeighing & Measuring flows organically into Hunting & Gathering.
By showcasing measurable quality on league tables, the HEI can secure large
amounts of funding as a reward. Conversely, any negative pronouncements from an
educational audit can spell disaster (Alexander 2000, p. 427), which would have
severe repercussions for an EAP unit.
5.2 Contextual Factors in the Weighing & Measuring of Higher Education
98
5.2.2 Internal Factors
Such external pressures motivate Command & Control to undertake InternalWeighing
& Measuring, defined here as the manner in which HEIs assesses their staff, student
programs and other activities to satisfy or exceed the quality standards of external
stakeholders. This is often called Continuous QualityAssessment in the literature, and
is the ongoing evaluation of instructional programs for determining the degree to
which they are working towards the strategic aims of Command & Control and their
stakeholders (Koslowski 2006, p. 280; Outing and Hauschild 2009, p. 189).
The pressure of Internal Weighing & Measuring has largely been upon teachers,
though the degree of severity differs based on the country and institution. The UK
arguably has the one of the most demanding systems, with university management
often overcompensating by requiring more from teachers than what is required by
external assessment bodies (Shore and Wright 2004). Japan, for the moment, seems to
be on the other end of the spectrum, with teacher assessment treated as something of
a formality (Burden 2010a).As one TEAP informant in Japan stated, ‘we have teacher
assessment sheets but they are useless and I think it’s just part of going through the
motions’(Interview, September 28, 2010). Institutions in the US varied widely, partly
because of the disparate nature of the American higher education system, when com-
pared to the more centralized systems found in Japan and, to a lesser degree, the UK.
Internal Weighing & Measuring addresses external stakeholder ideals of Quality,
which has inspired a huge corpus of fractious scholarly writings. Some view quality
assessment as necessary for insuring accountability and for improving HE
(Narasimhan 1997; Saraiva et al. 2003; Williams 2003; Anyamele 2005). Others
decry it as yet another an example of how a neoliberalist political philosophy
has curtailed academic freedom, eroded the democratic ideals of Western HE and
impoverished the diversity of academic practice (Salter and Tapper 2000; Shore and
Wright 2004; Anderson 2006a; Hoecht 2006). The latter opinion represents the view
of the majority of the TEAPs and academic informants interviewed. A TEAP from
Japan explains that internal assessment discounts what language educators’ class-
room values:
The evaluation of teaching, again I don’t know in everybody else’s case, but certainly in the
university we are in, our teaching is now very much, and accordingly our salary is very much
determined by all sorts of evaluations and surveys and questionnaires and students evaluate
you. You have to show your so called ‘effort’during the year, what you did in terms of research
papers and what papers you published, if you got any grant money. There’s an increased
amount of accountability, accounting for what you do. There’s very much an emphasis on that.
It’s not just what you do in the classroom, how good you are as a teacher, but also what you do
outside the classroom, what can be measured. Inside the closeted classroom it’s very difficult
to measure what you do with the students, but what you do outside is much easier to measure
and that’s where the emphasis is (Interview, November 2, 2008).
BLEAP informants frequently spoke of wanting to assess the quality of their pro-
grams and teachers through ‘benchmarking’, that is, by ‘identifying processes and
results that represent best practices and performance for similar activities, inside or
outside the academic community’ (MQA Education Criteria for Performance
5 Weighing and Measuring
99
Excellence 2006, p. 23). However, beyond the talk of administrative informants and
the TEAP/academic narrative of teacher imprisonment to the regime of assessment
(Strathern 1997; Biesta 2004), my field research finds that the Weighing and/or
Measuring of Tertiary EAP is complex, variable and dependent upon the degree
to which the HEI and EAP unit has been neoliberalized. Drawing from the
HEI typology introduced earlier, Weighing & Measuring of EAP at, for example,
Dreamweaver HEIs, is often distinct from the manner in which it is assessed at
Sausage Maker or Mass Provider HEIs. Because the bulk of the data collected for
this critical grounded theory came from Mass Providers, the remainder of this
chapter focuses upon this context.
5.3 Weighing & Measuring Tertiary EAP Programs
EAP units in neoliberal Mass Providers, similar to Sausage Maker HEIs, provide
students with as much second language training as possible through specific materials,
which if not made in-house, must still be approved by the BLEAP in charge of the
program.The focus is upon processed course delivery and managerial control. Students
are encouraged to work in intensive but enjoyable learning environments emphasizing
activity and experiential engagement. Teachers should quickly and efficiently process
students in order to make room for the next cohort. Programs operating in this climate
are rarely assessed in the same manner as academic departments, because they are
auxiliary units connected either to a third-party provider or because they have been
subsumed within an administrative office. A BLEAP expands upon these points:
GH: Internally, to whom are you accountable in your organization? Really, I’m interested
in the position, not any names. How does this person or persons gauge your accountability
to the organization? For example, by some sort of audit? Student questionnaires? Self-
evaluation forms? Informal workday observations?
Informant: The Vice Provost and Dean of the Graduate School…Academic Affairs.
GH: What sorts of external assessment do you have to respond to?
Informant: None - we are not required to be accredited. We are not a part of the academic
system yet.
GH: Are there any organizations that you need to report your activities to? If so, how do you
report to them? I mean, for example, a questionnaire, or do they come to visit and talk to you?
Informant: No external groups evaluate us because we are an annexed program with no
domestic stakeholders (Interview, September 29, 2010).
Instead, Command & Control tends to weigh EAP units according to whether
they are recruiting an acceptable number of students, and if the program keeps them
moving through. Mass Provider EAP units are also weighed according to whether
they successfully function as well-coordinated service providers, as this BLEAP
explains:
GH: What’s the main concern?
Informant: The main concern?
GH: Yeah, I mean, a core issue that needs to be addressed.
Informant: Well, I would probably return and say what is it… what is it that you expect
from the program, and how are we delivering, or not delivering, on that? Essentially, we’re
5.3 Weighing & Measuring Tertiary EAP Programs
100
the service provider, so we see things, I see things as far as making sure that we can fix all
of our infrastructure and systems so that [international student] experiences…come through.
At the start they have everything as efficiently as possible, and they’re in the classes and
learning as comfortably as possible. So, for me, getting through the management of setting
up the orientation and getting there comfortably, making sure my teachers are prepared and
have a decent curriculum, and me making sure that teachers are teaching things to the
students that are appropriate, and they’re doing it in ways that mesh with how I believe
they’re being done (Interview, November 27, 2006).
5.3.1 Challenges to the Weighing & Measuring
of EAP Programs
A retired director of one EAP unit discussed a problem that informants from other
Tertiary EAP programs often mentioned, which was that of failing to find ways of
benchmarking the program according to quality standards:
Problem is they didn’t measure it against something like a Lexus or a BMW or a Rolls
Royce, but that’s OK we’re measuring American manufacturing versus others. So that’s
what we’re after. How do you do it with EAP? Well, basically we never found a way to really
measure how well we did versus other institutions because we had kind of a unique program
and you would have to, a lot of it depended entirely upon what level of students you admit
(Interview, November 28, 2005).
Even though all of the EAP programs at Mass Providers in this study lacked a
formal, quantitative framework for assessment, it still falls to BLEAPs to devise a
means by which they can report to their superiors. Not doing so, as one BLEAP
warns, would put both everyone at risk:
People do need to know what you’re doing. If they don’t know what you’re doing, if you
don’t send them any reports or invite them to come and see or something like that, then
inevitably they operate with a stereotype set of assumptions about what they think you do,
and if you can’t produce any evidence about what you do and how effective it is, then you
become vulnerable to restructurings and hivings off and downsizing and God knows what,
so I’ve always regarded that as very important (Interview, September 30, 2010).
Successfully maintaining communication with superiors and patrons maintains
the BLEAP’s transactional or upward trajectory. Neglect of this practice was a feature
of Sinking BLEAPs.
5.3.2 Strategies for Weighing & Measuring EAP Programs
Common strategies were those of counting student enrollment, measuring student
satisfaction, student interviewing and numerification. In tandem with Hunting &
Gathering, BLEAPs sought to quantify the quality of the EAP program by counting
5 Weighing and Measuring
101
the number of students recruited. Getting more students is seen as a key quality
indicator:
Informant: …it’s quality management systems, it has everything to do with efficiency, so
it’s built right into its own thing. More students is more efficient…It’s a good problem to
have too many students, is what they say.
GH: It seems to me that quality is being defined as quantity.
Informant: (jaw drops slightly…appears somewhat taken aback)…Yeah.
GH: Is that a difficult question?
Informant: (regrouping) No, I mean, that’s…that’s the system that is apparently in place
(Interview, November 5, 2008).
Another strategy is that of gauging student satisfaction. Concerns about student
satisfaction among BLEAPs often superseded concerns over language acquisition. The
following comes from a BLEAP in charge of a successful American schoolstay pro-
gram run through her Japanese HEI:
I wasn’t accompanying the group that year, and I did a very detailed post-program ques-
tionnaire with those students to try and see what benefits they were getting out of it. I didn’t
try to test their English ability…but I wanted to see what they were getting motivationally,
and that sort of thing (Interview Follow-Up after Presentation, November 2, 2008).
BLEAPs and language teachers in the Center of Praxis both tend to link ‘motiva-
tion’ with what students crave. This is intended to foster pleasant classroom experi-
ences (Luo 2003; Rivers 2008; Su 2010). The informant above expresses a belief
that is similar to what is written in quality assurance manuals: student satisfaction
must be achieved before learning can take place (MQA Education Criteria for
Performance Excellence 2006, p. 22). The social construct framing EAP in terms of
‘satisfaction then acquisition’ derives from Total Quality Management, and consid-
ers the opinions and satisfaction of student-customers as core quality indicators.
For EAP, it is the logical outcome of Student-Centered Learning (Gottlieb 1995;
Greenfield 2003), and serves as an important barometer of the relative success or
failure of Investment Servicing. Gauging student satisfaction is vital for determin-
ing if the educational services provided by the EAP unit are aiding in the recruit-
ment and retention of international students, because as consumers in the modern
knowledge economy, international students feel entitled to demand a satisfying
educational experience. When expectations are unmet, they can express their dis-
pleasure by taking their business elsewhere and dissuading future students from
coming to the HEI through their negative reviews. A BLEAP at a Japanese HEI
explained this while discussing important factors for Weighing & Measuring stu-
dent satisfaction:
GH: How do the students determine the quality of your school’s product?
Informant: The kids want lots of English with native speakers…and they want to feel some
success with the language. So the key will be pushing the kids to make progress. And prog-
ress that they can see –
GH: But wait a minute. If student satisfaction is a major concern, then you might be evaluated
poorly if the students don’t want to study so hard. How can you improve quality when stu-
dent satisfaction is a major issue?
5.3 Weighing & Measuring Tertiary EAP Programs
102
Informant: The key is to from day one have a fun, well-integrated program that has
frequent achievable goals. And that students have close relationships with teachers…lots of
teacher involvement I believe will get students interested and meet any satisfaction issues.
GH: Am I hearing that creating satisfying lessons for learners is essentially the same as
‘motivating learners’?
Informant: Yes it’s the same thing. Good lessons with achievable goals is critical…so the
basic plan is lots of English with native speakers…good enough lessons…and more teacher
involvement in the learning. Last year the high schools sent six kids to us. This year under
the above ‘sales’[pitch], twenty-one (Interview, September 6, 2010).
Quality, therefore, is often validated by a numerical increase in students. The
informant uses numerical increases as proof that they have been successful in
satisfying learners, a point to which I will return shortly.
One would expect that the most common strategy for measuring student satisfac-
tion would seem to be through discreet point student questionnaires, as these pro-
vide clear, quantitative data that can be easily presented to Command & Control.
The use of such questionnaires for gauging satisfaction and evaluating courses
among domestic students is a major feature in the debate surrounding the pervasive-
ness of service industry-based practices in early twenty-first century HEIs (Sander
et al. 2000; Leckey and Neill 2001; Wiers-Jenssen et al. 2002). However, Ramsden
(2008a, p. 10) notes that questionnaires are often overused. The result of this ‘sur-
vey fatigue’ is that many student stop filling them out, unless coerced in some way
by administration. This may have some relation to my discovery that student satis-
faction questionnaires were rarely used in most of the EAP units studied, and even
where the periodic use of questionnaires did take place, BLEAPs did not much
stock in them unless there was something positive that could be used to bolster an
image of success to their peers and superiors. Survey data not reflecting this is
treated in an altogether different manner, as intimated by this front-line administra-
tive professional who worked with an Upwardly Mobile BLEAP at Polaris:
Informant: They have a mid-year survey that the kids did. I imagine you probably saw it,
evaluation, they did it.
GH: No, they didn’t show it to me.
Informant: Oh, you didn’t?
GH: Uh-uh.
Informant: Oh, that’s interesting. In any other program I would have done, we would have
gone together, and we would have looked at those things that the kids were saying. We
would have developed goals based on those things, and we would have instituted new pro-
grams (Interview, October 29, 2007).
What I found instead, however, was that the survey data had been quietly filed
away. The BLEAP in charge of the EAP Unit would not discuss the contents with
me, choosing instead to focus on what he saw as the positive things he had achieved
in the program.
Managerial guides for gauging customer satisfaction in TQM recognize that
discrete point questionnaires may not always be the best approach, so qualitative
interviews or casual conversations with student customers are suggested as con-
tingency strategies (MQA Education Criteria for Performance Excellence 2006,
p. 22). I found that at every venue, even where surveys were regularly administered,
5 Weighing and Measuring
103
it was the use of informal conversations that were most trusted as a way of gauging
student satisfaction among BLEAPs:
GH: How do you assess customer satisfaction?
Informant: Well for the time being by just talking to them in casual settings…but I
am the type of manager who talks to the kids all the time to find out what they like or
don’t like…same for teachers. In those casual settings you learn a lot (Interview,
September 6, 2010).
The strategy of conducting informal chats is akin to the supervisor taking a stroll
through a factory in order to listen to the hum of the machines. Qualitative reporting of
student satisfaction to HEI management might lack hard evidence, but Harper and
Kuh (2007) maintain that qualitative reporting of student satisfaction and program
quality has been used with success at some HEIs. However, the best strategy for
assuring program quality is through demonstrating that Hunting & Gathering has
been successful, in that an adequate numbers of students are coming into the
program. Regardless of other indicators, BLEAPs believe this can be enough to
maintain the good will of Command & Control:
GH: If the results are negative, what do you plan to do?
Informant: Well first, ultimately, if we get the student numbers up nobody will care.
GH: You mean, if you get enough students into the program, the results from the CEF test
will not be as important?
Informant: Yes. The stability of the program is first…but what I am working on is how to
assess our kids –
GH: It is interesting. It sounds a lot more like sales than working in an educational
program....
Informant: Yes and no…but for sure the money comes first at this stage.
GH: Yeah. You know, there are others in your position who, when getting disappointing
results or negative feedback from students, they sit on the information until they get some-
thing positive to report to Command & Control.
Informant: All I need are more students. The C and C people are business[persons]…they
don’t care as long as more students come. Same for everyone, really. I am probably the
only one who is serious about improvements in regard to student ability (Interview,
September 6, 2010).
With regard to this last point, other BLEAPs also mentioned that a focus on
quantitative measures misses the point and focus the EAP program on peripheral
issues:
I have mixed feelings about it you see, because to manage an organization you have got to
have some performance indicators, yeah? You’ve got to have some data which shows you
how the organization is performing, and you have to choose which aspects of it you want to
have data on. I think the problem with it is if you choose the wrong indicators. I think
that’s one problem. Another problem is if you start trying to improve those indicators,
particularly if they’re quantitative indicators, directly, rather than improving what’s at the
core of it (Interview, September 30, 2010).
Another consequence of quantifying quality was that, to borrow liberally from
the terminology used by psychologist Paul Meehl (1998), BLEAPs and Command
& Control informants frequently participated in the numerification of international
students. The closer one is to the Center of Praxis, either physically during the day
5.3 Weighing & Measuring Tertiary EAP Programs
104
or psychologically in terms of professional identity, the more common it is to hear
references to the people in their classes as ‘students’ or on a first name basis. For
many BLEAPs, especially those who were Upwardly Mobile, and for members of
Command & Control, international students were almost always referred to as ‘the
numbers’ (Table 5.1).
Numerification was frequently noticed by TEAPs as one element contributing to
the quiet derision they held towards their new administrative managers. BLEAPs
typically did not know the names of the students in their programs, or if they did,
their memories related to vague recollections of those who had somehow disrupted
the orderly running of their SPUs. The social distance of BLEAPs from students
was not only a symptom of numerification, it also contributed to their decision to
make TEAPs responsible for student satisfaction, and linking that satisfaction to the
manner in which they were either weighed or measured.
5.4 Weighing & Measuring TEAPs
TEAPs in neoliberal Mass Provider HEIs were rarely assessed in the same manner
as faculty. Within the American context, one BLEAP explains:
The nature of the EAP program does not lend itself to academic inclusion with the same
checks and balances. Because EAP Programs are required by Federal Law to deliver 22
hours of instruction per week, the only option is to run it with part time staff or fewer teach-
ers on professional contracts free from the class and office restraints of faculty…. Because
Table 5.1 Concordance sample of interviews indicating student numerification
Concordance sample
1. creasingly globalized world. GH: Mmm. Informant: So those, the fact that we’ve got the
numbers, and they’re at…larger events and they’re a group of students t
2. lot of students besides the NUGIS students…the NUGIS students actually raises the
numbers reached for that semester quite a bit. Was it, I think the Dean said
3. nk about talking with the people in my department about…how can we increase the
numbers, and how they saw it, and they’re like, well, I don’t know. They
4. some things are filtering back to other students, and I think you can see it in the
numbers, and at some point we can put off, and if I – GH:
5. s went down. Is that sort of a recap? Informant: Indubitably yes. The numbers also
obviously coincided with the economic downturn in Japan.
6. omy, but it had experienced a lot of difficulties I know in the ‘90s. So the numbers
never really kind of expanded. That’s the kind of economic re
7. example GH: There are a lot of them. Informant: The numbers go from the mid-1990s
they’ve just gone pheeeeew. Until about
8. continually go down and I hope that this will be enough to keep our numbers up. Have
you heard anything about this year’s
9. I would say it’s a program that we need to develop much more fully…um, and the
numbers in EAP are too small…um…it falls short of being a program in
5 Weighing and Measuring
105
I know this I have not taken the larger concern (academic integrity and effectiveness) to
the administration. The recent development of EAP programs and the model under which
they were created (a business model designed to improve the bottom line) keeps them in this
type of system because the faculty model is actually fair to the people doing the work –the
EAP model is not.
The result: faculty has far more oversight with checks and balances including centrally
collected student evaluations and external evaluations, but enjoys 9 month contracts, more
days off, 17 hours per week of in class and office hours, etc. EAP instructors need only teach
English with no real oversight other than whatever system I may have time to create and get
accredited (if I choose). Since those things take time and, so far, we are effective – we keep
doing things as we have done them. I need to show a fiscal benefit to the university to
merely keep this program here so that is the measured factor of success not a (arguably
marginally) more evaluated teaching model (Email Interview, October 1, 2010).
However, TEAPs are often weighed according to their conformity to the beliefs
of their administrative managers and the degree to which they willingly cooperate
with administrative initiatives. This practice was encountered and implied in numer-
ous interviews during field study visits. One of the clearest examples of this ten-
dency emerged at Polaris, which was one of the few HEIs where I had the time and
access to conduct repertory grid interviews with three senior administrators and the
BLEAP in charge of the EAP Unit. Space does not allow for a detailed discussion
of the repertory grid procedure, though excellent guides are in print (Fransella et al.
2004; Jankowicz 2004), and my approach follows the methodology as found in
Easterby-Smith (1981). Essentially, what the repertory grid technique does is to
allow people to have a reflective conversation with themselves around certain sub-
jects of interest. They assign numerical ratings to empirical events and things (called
elements), which have been contextualized by deeply held beliefs, or constructs.
The data is written on a form looks like a large grid or table, and can analyzed either
interpretively or statistically. I used Rep 5 v.1.03 (Shaw and Gaines 2009), a com-
puter program specifically designed for repertory grid analysis. Using the Principle
Components Analysis function, corresponding elements and constructs were clus-
tered into four quadrants (Fig. 5.2). Data from different informants using preformat-
ted grids were analyzed, and all but the most strongly rated constructs and elements
were filtered out.
Grid analysis revealed that, the personal constructs of the administrators and
BLEAP in the sample framed the ideals for good TEAPs (GT) within the constructs
held for good administrative managers (GA). This suggested that, at least for this
sample, in order for TEAPs to be Weighed & Measured positively, they need to
respectful to students and management, self-starters, innovative, caring towards stu-
dents and team players who will work with administrative management in providing
course delivery augmenting the educational experience of international students.
What was missing in the constructs, and which was verified later during interviews,
was an awareness on the part of administrators about the areas of greatest interest to
TEAPs, that of language instruction. Yet because BLEAPs and administrative
Command & Control have greater power to define what is valued in the HEI and
EAP Unit, far more important than any skill TEAPs may have in language instruc-
tion, administrative managers of TEAPs were more concerned about whether
5.4 Weighing & Measuring TEAPs
106
Fig.
5.2
Principle
components
analysis
from
repertory
grid
interviews
(
Legend
:
GA/BA
Good/Bad
Administrator,
GT/BT
Good/Bad
Teacher,
GS/BS
Good/Bad
Student,
GO/BO
Good/Bad
Organization)
5 Weighing and Measuring
107
TEAPs both agreed and cooperated with Command & Control’s neoliberal vision
for the future of international student education.
It was observed that this often resulted in TEAPs performing all manner of duties
outside of their training as language educators, such as participating in student
recruitment, running service learning or experiential schoolstay projects, all the
while seeking to provide satisfying experiences for learners that have been gathered
from abroad by their BLEAP. TEAPs who balked at following administrative ideals,
or who somehow displeased either students or stakeholders, were weighed in the
scales and found wanting. Throughout my field research, all of the TEAPs who
were sacked or who did not receive contract renewals lost their jobs either for failing
to satisfy students or for defying the BLEAP. None were dismissed for lacking skill
as a language educator.
5.4.1 Challenges to the Weighing & Measuring of TEAPs
The Weighing & Measuring of TEAPs at neoliberal HEIs is fraught with subtle dif-
ficulties. One relates to what was noted earlier in the chapter on Hunting &
Gathering, that multiple entry points are being created for allowing International
Students to enter universities and effectively sidestep both the traditional Tertiary
EAP units and the external TOEFL or IELTs tests. Coupled with the large numbers
of international students already achieving the entrance requirements for the TOEFL
and IELTs in their home country, the primary source of quantitative evidence to
which TEAPs have appealed for validating their contribution to the university, that
of TOEFL and IELTS preparation, is being quietly erased.
A challenge to Weighing & Measuring TEAPs relates to the decision of many
BLEAPs to make language teachers responsible for student satisfaction. During inter-
views, most TEAPs spoke of students in parental tones, which frequently resulted in
caring and sacrificial expressions of student service, but there were times when teachers
felt that students needed to be scolded for unacceptable behavior. For many BLEAPs,
this parental model is often at odds with the goals of the neoliberal university:
Informant: For me, my larger issue is really with teachers who have the idea that you
should learn English in sort of a very forceful… they’re of the mindset that we’re helping
these students to acquire something that they need to have because anyone that’s educated
obviously speaks English, and they’re… they’re approaching it from that manner…where
I’m not of that mindset. They’re here for a cultural emergent experience where they’re to
learn and expand, and hopefully become life-long learners, and acquire the language in
their own ways. So I’m dealing with a theoretical model of EAP teachers that are of the
mindset that ‘this is the way we mold good people, is through English education, and we
will make sure that being late is wrong, it’s not right to be late. And doing this, and being…
speaking English, and all the cultural accoutrements that come with that are what you
should acquire if you’re going to become a nice person’ (Interview, November 27, 2006).
International Students already dealing with the stress associated with culture
shock are apt to complain more vehemently if angered by TEAP discipline. By the
time reports of dissatisfaction reach the BLEAP via informal conversations, as
5.4 Weighing & Measuring TEAPs
108
in the following interview excerpt, TEAPs will have been portrayed in the worst
light possible:
When I hear of screaming teachers in classrooms, I’m concerned about that. I’m concerned
about that because I think that that impacts…that impacts recruitment (Interview, November
27, 2006).
Such challenges invariably have implications for overall program assessment:
‘the biggest challenge to our EAP program,’concluded one BLEAP, ‘are our teachers,
and the level of risks the instructors are willing to take, to get them out of their
comfort level’ (Interview, November 20, 2006). At most of the sites undergoing an
intensified push towards neoliberalization, TEAPs were described, among other
things, as ‘rude’, ‘ineffective’, ‘selfish’, ‘uninvolved’, ‘negative’, ‘unproductive’, ‘inactive’
and ‘barriers to international student recruitment’. In the UK, one Upwardly Mobile
BLEAP told me during an unrecorded interview that TEAPs were the ‘grunts’of his
campus (Field Notes March 7, 2009).
Such assessments raise alarm bells both for Upwardly Mobile and Transactional
BLEAPs, because if left unchecked, their own careers will be affected. Because
their position in the HEI is precariously ambiguous, BLEAPs need to exercise
extreme caution when choosing strategies for Weighing & Measuring TEAPs.
5.4.2 Strategies for Weighing & Measuring TEAPs
Some of the strategies used by BLEAPs were those of Shadow Assessment,
Commando Assessment, Using Student Informants, and Reporting, either through
filling out forms or orally during teachers’ meetings.
As noted earlier, the absence of formal assessment means that TEAPs are con-
stantly weighed informally according to the mental constructs of those in Command
& Control. This dynamic is what I have termed as shadow assessment. Koslowski’s
(2007) qualitative case study uncovered such practices at Mid-Atlantic University in
the US, and concluded that even more important than formal program measurement,
it is the informal and invisible assessment lacking any documentation or feedback
that makes the greater internal impact among those governing neoliberal HEIs.
Koslowski claims that such practices are common at HEIs that are attempting to
conform to the precepts of Total Quality Management. The bulk of my interviews
with Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs and members of Command & Control, as well as
repertory grid data, support Koslowski’s findings. However, as with many strategies
in this section, shadow assessing TEAPs was rarely successful, because it was
arbitrary and more a reflection of interpersonal issues between TEAPs and BLEAPs
than it was of TEAP performance in the EAP Unit. When BLEAPs were at odds
with TEAPs, they were shadow assessed as substandard, subversive, or both. At less
stressful times, even though my observations of the TEAPs suggested that they had
not significantly changed their practices, BLEAPs saw them simply as ‘misguided’,
‘unable to see the big picture’, but along the lines of a neoliberal customer service
5 Weighing and Measuring
109
model, were also seen as mostly ‘good people’ who were ‘constantly available for
students’ and ‘caring for students’ by ‘devoting their personal time to being with
students’.
Another largely unsuccessful strategy observed was that of ‘Commando
Assessment’. This takes place when BLEAPs suspect from shadow assessment
that their vision for EAP is being secretly transgressed. In order to confirm these
suspicions, the BLEAP will suddenly drop behind organizational enemy lines and
engage in surprise class observations, or conduct an indiscriminate bombing
campaign of ad hoc student satisfaction surveys. Commando Assessment failed
at every site where it was observed. One BLEAP noted that whenever he
engaged in sudden, unannounced observations, the best he would get was ‘the
canned version’:
I say, ‘I want to come and visit your class’and there’s always some sort of activity. But the
ones that I did do for one of our instructors were, uh, of course it was the TOEFL class…
she (Informant visibly grimaces, turns away halfway and clenches up)…admitted that it
was more of a sit down and, you know, actually learn type of event…but I wonder if
her reading and writing [class] is not exactly the same way. So…I need to learn more about
my program (Interview, May 10, 2006).
The BLEAP learned little in further attempts, as TEAPs engaged in what many
(Barrow 1999; Newton 2000; Anderson 2006a; Turner 2009) have identified as either
‘dramaturgical performances’, ‘dramaturgical compliance’ or ‘impression manage-
ment’. All of these terms refer to the cat and mouse games played by teachers for
keeping BLEAPs at bay, usually by appearing to conform to managerial standards
during observation but then shifting back to regular practices once the Commando
Assessors have left the scene.
Attempts to use student satisfaction surveys as a means of confirming non-
compliance or for justifying managerial action also tended to fail, primarily due to
student support of the TEAPs, as the BLEAP explained:
Quite honestly, we can think about restructuring EAP, and so many times I’ve spoken to [the
Dean of the College] to sort of say, let’s… you know, we’ll document and sort of do perfor-
mance evaluations. Every survey that comes back, it’s from East Asian students, who [report
that the TEAPs] ‘really, really care about us. They want us to learn.’And then so I started
creating the surveys, you know, do you feel comfortable in class? Does the teacher make you
feel good about learning? And trying to get something. The students won’t go negative. They
just won’t report…what I hear from external people just standing in the hallway with [one
TEAP] screaming at people, and [another TEAP] treating them in a way that makes them
feel like children (Interview, October 29, 2007).
In such situations, the BLEAP takes on the role similar to that of a law enforce-
ment officer entering a domestic dispute. Regardless of the abuse, it is common for
all family members to turn on the officer. Some BLEAPs know instinctively that
such strategies are counterproductive: ‘I don’t want to scare people with formal
documents and things like that…In my situation if we decided to go hardcore it
would be a disaster’ (Interview, September 6, 2010). In the final analysis, it was
difficult to find a BLEAP who didn’t express private misgivings about the student
evaluation of TEAPs, with most seeing it as a waste of time.
5.4 Weighing & Measuring TEAPs
110
As a contingency for dealing with dramaturgical performances, neoliberal HEIs
in the UK, such as Central Lancashire University, have experimented with the
use of ‘mystery students’(Douglas and Douglas 2006a, b). This strategy falls some-
where between Shadow Assessment and Commando Assessment, and employs
people to pose as students in order to secretly assess the quality of teacher instruc-
tion. Versions of this strategy were observed at Polaris, Wensleydale and another
HEI in southern Japan, where BLEAPs cultivated friendships with student infor-
mants with the express purpose of occasionally asking their opinions about any-
thing they find dissatisfying about teachers or the program. If secrecy is successfully
maintained, BLEAPs are able to address problems and deal with teacher issues long
before rumors reach the ears of the Command & Control patrons of EAP. Even if
negative reports about TEAPs do leak out, BLEAPs can still strengthen their rapport
with Command & Control:
For example, a department head might come to you and say that their kids have a complaint
with one of our teachers. But we are always aware of it and in most cases have been already
working on the problem…so they are usually surprised and relieved to know that you have
been trying to fix the problem (Interview, September 6, 2010).
Though Douglas and Douglas (2006a) contend that only bad teachers have any-
thing to fear from mystery student assessment, their use is not only fraught with
ethical considerations, it is risky. As with Commando Assessment, the use of student
informants can affect teacher morale and endanger the career prospects of the
BLEAP. Devoid of positional power within the Third Spaces of their HEIs, BLEAPs
are defenseless if they lose TEAP support. Using students to inform on teachers
quickly undermines trust and rapport. This can quickly place an otherwise Upwardly
Mobile BLEAP on a Sinking BLEAP trajectory.
The most successful strategy observed was to require teachers to write reports of
what they did in their classes. The nature of these differed from school to school, in
that some BLEAPs required regular teacher diaries of their classes, others provided
student progress reports, and a few required TEAPs to fill out administrative files on
student attendance and testing. This was the least invasive of the strategies used, and
was often supplemented through the use of regular teachers’ meetings. Through the
statements and behavior of TEAPs in meetings, and comparing this with their
written reports, BLEAPs can assess who is on board, and who is rocking the boat.
Burden (2010a, b) has observed that for the Japan context, strategies for assessing
TEAPs and elsewhere are often carried out in a demotivating manner. The negative
view of TEAPs held by Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs opens the door for self-fulfilling
prophesies, in which BLEAPs, already stressed from teacher resistance to a
‘managerial agenda’, fixate upon negative feedback gathered from select students,
which reinforces the perceptions they already have about uncooperative teachers.
This is not specific to Japan, however. Other studies have found that, in a myriad
of subtle and sometimes overt ways (such as Commando Assessment), when mana-
gerial disappointment in the professional capacity of teachers is conveyed, teacher
demotivation increases (Leithwood et al. 2002; Scott and Dinham 2002). This often
manifests itself in classes that are less active and engaging, which then fuels the
potential for increased student dissatisfaction.
5 Weighing and Measuring
111
It should be no surprise, then, that studies have found teachers to become more
motivated, engaged and prone to provide satisfying lessons when they feel valued
by the organization and are supported by those in positions of authority (Sylvia and
Hutchison 1985; Bishay 1996; Takeda 2010). Takeda (2010) found from her study
of 35 TEAPs at five different Japanese HEIs that, as more teachers in Japan are
hired on short-term administrative contracts, the tenuous nature of their place in
the organization means that they are in even greater need of encouragement,
expressions of appreciation and, and demonstrations of understanding from those in
supervisory roles.
5.5 Weighing & Measuring International Students
The visible aspects of how international students in EAP units are weighed and
measured appears little changed from the time when HEIs reflected the cultural and
educational values highlighted during the Cold War. The second language
proficiency of EAP students is still measured against prestigious external tests such
as the TOEFL, IELTs and for programs specializing primarily in Japanese or Korean
learners, the Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC). All of these
are publically upheld as quality checks for HEI access. Students achieving high
scores on such tests are not only measured positively on an individual level, their
success is imported to TEAPs, BLEAPs and the reputation of the EAP unit.
However, we have already seen that the increased permeability of the neoliberal
HEI for receiving international students is resulted in multiple avenues that circum-
vent these older forms of external assessment. As these external frameworks for
measuring EAP student language proficiencies decrease in their ability to slow the
flow of learners into the HEI, ways of weighing are beginning to increase. Similar
to TEAPs, an analysis of observations and interviews suggests that, in neoliberal
mass-providers, international students are progressively being weighed according
to how they cooperate with the plans of Command & Control. From interviews and
repertory grid analyses, this is often expressed as to the degree to which EAP
students are ‘active’ and ‘involved’ with strategic service learning/diversity awareness
program initiatives, and whether they are ‘positive’ team players, as opposed to
being ‘passive’, ‘apathetic’ and ‘self-centered’.
5.5.1 Challenges to Weighing & Measuring
International Students
BLEAPs now find themselves in a place where massification and globalization
grind against each other to create sparks of contradiction. While their hunting and
gathering efforts have helped in placing greater numbers of international students
with limited language proficiency to access the HEI through one of the many
5.5 Weighing & Measuring International Students
112
alternative avenues available, there is also an increase of students whose academic
and linguistic levels are so low that university entry is virtually impossible. Some of
these students eventually leave after running out of money or when the time on their
student visas expire, but until then, their presence slows the flow of students out of
EAP and into the university. As these students can form a large number of those in
the EAP unit, in terms of weighing and measuring, they represent a significant
challenge, as one former BLEAP explained, ‘[w]e tended to admit anybody, even
some who’ve taken a TOEFL and got 200 on it, we would admit it and then, you’re
never going to get anybody raised up in four semesters that low’ (Interview,
November 28, 2005). The lack of academic progress effectively thwarts a
BLEAP’s attempts to demonstrate that excellence is being achieved. Low levels
second language proficiency is not the only problem:
Informant: They’re, well…
GH: What are they doing, or not doing?
Informant: Not volun, not volunteering their…time. Not participating in class…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …not participating in group work…um…wanting people to tell them what they
need to do rather than saying, ‘this is what I think I can do to help, in the group.’You know,
[for] a lot of Asian students that would be comfortable…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …sitting there, heads down, pretending to write notes or, sleeping (Interview
November 28, 2005).
Given the expectations of Command & Control, BLEAPs cannot risk outside
EAP classroom observation, if students cannot be presented as smiling and interacting
among each other. Active, satisfying and successful instructional delivery must be
showcased. Silent and unexpressive learners represent failure on part of the BLEAP.
Another major challenge to BLEAPs seeking to Weigh & Measure EAP students
is the phenomenon of large international student enclaves. This of course has been
the subject of considerable research interest in the US and UK (Kagan and Cohen
1990; Kaczmarek et al. 1994; Al-Sharideh and Goe 1998; Myles and Cheng 2003;
Marriott 2004; Katz 2006; Tran 2009), and I have also observed during visits to
Japanese campuses the growing presence of Chinese international students who
band together and rarely interact with domestic students throughout their time at
university (Tanaka et al. 1994; Murphy-Shigematsu 2002). Closed socio-cultural
cliques pose problems for BLEAPs in charge of EAP units wishing, through Weighing
& Measuring, to demonstrate a positive impact from their Hunting & Gathering
efforts. Apart from economic considerations, international student recruitment is
vital for furthering the internationalization of their campuses, but this often does not
happen as expected or desired. Not only do studies indicate that many do not
sufficiently improve linguistically after leaving the EAP Unit (Sawir 2005;
Andrade 2006), a noticeable number also arrive with psychological issues. One
TEAP explains:
Informant: This is something that the administration doesn’t see or understand, that every
one of these students is like a special education student. Every one of these students has
needs that are beyond the normal student in the normal classroom.
5 Weighing and Measuring
113
GH: For example?
Informant:You know.You’ve got all kinds of things. I had another student that was mutilating
her body. Another student who made statements like, ‘I want to kill people.’I mean, you’ve
got all kinds of things.
GH: Emotional…a lot of students that come are… have some real emotional flaws, right?
Informant: Yeah, right.
GH: Psychological.
Informant: And you’ve got things that go on in the classroom that you wouldn’t have in
mainstream classrooms. I mean, some of these students have, you know, bulimia, or learn-
ing disabilities, and you know, there are all kinds of things that have not been recognized,
and probably never will be recognized, but they’re all in the EAP classroom (Interview,
November 5, 2008).
Most HEIs have a mental health clinic for addressing some of these issues, but
many fall through the safety net, not realize that such services are available:
Informant: I know it’s a really extreme case, but this could have been avoided. What about
that Japanese student in the States a couple of years ago who ended up being a mass mur-
derer and shot somebody in the street because … and then he shot himself, and it’s because
he felt lonely and nobody was helping him at university.
GH: He wasn’t Japanese. He was Korean. He lived in the States for awhile.
Informant: (not listening) I know it’s an extreme case but if the authorities had listened and
… I don’t know, just focused on his behavior …But I’m just using that as an example as an
international student. If they’ve got problems, if they feel aggravated and they’re not getting
all the help that they feel that they need …
GH: (reflecting back) And the students what … they’re not getting the help they need. So
there’s no pastoral care for them and no overall consideration for them.
Informant: Yeah. Talking of that, this is what happened on Friday. One of my students
who’s normally very lively and bubbly, he looked skeletal, he looked really thin, and I
said, ‘[name redacted] are you OK? You don’t look very well.’ He said, ‘I only found out
yesterday that my brother, who’s doing a master’s degree in India, was found dead in his
room and his body had been lying there for two days.’ I said, ‘Are you OK? Do you need
help? You know we do have a student councilor you can go and see.’ And he was like all
confused. I said, ‘You need counseling. Are you going home?’ And he was like, he didn’t
know what was happening.
GH: What did you do?
Informant: I just said, ‘Look, if you need to speak to somebody, see me or speak to any of
us about that, ‘cause that’s really horrible news.’They’re on the outside, they’re in the UK
but … he didn’t know that there’s that kind of help available (Interview, September 14,
2008).
In addition to psychological issues, some students arrive and begin to display
antisocial behavior patterns, as a Command & Control informant recalls:
One of the young men that came had been out of school in Japan … was … pretty independent,
and even when I met him in Japan in April I thought ‘he’s a little older. I don’t know how
this is going to go.’ And we started having trouble with him day one, and he wanted to be
independent, not do what we wanted to do. And <laughs> within a week he and [the BLEAP
in charge of the EAP program] had a physical encounter with one another and he got
kicked out of the program (Interview, November 28, 2005).
After the initial economic contribution has been made, the lack of a positive,
engaging dynamic among many of these learners makes them increasingly problematic
to a neoliberal HEI, especially if their social problems are interpreted as resistance
5.5 Weighing & Measuring International Students
114
to the overall picture that managers have for the institution. The failure to assimilate
contributes to the students becoming ‘otherized’(Kubota et al. 2006; Manara 2014),
that is, to be seen as incorrigibly foreign. From my study of attitudes in Command
& Control, otherization eventually causes such learners to fade from their minds,
to become, in effect, non-students. With dreams of internationalization and
diversity not being achieved, the situation begins to be seen as one in which the
university is experiencing a numeric decline in ‘real’ international students. Bain
et al. (2006) explain that, from anAmerican perspective, any decline in international
students, be it numerically or in failing to recruit socially engaging and academi-
cally talented learners, represents a severe threat:
U.S. well-being is increasingly dependent on innovation and competitiveness in the global
knowledge-based economy. International students and scholars have historically provided a
source of new talent for innovation in the United States. Although the demand for education
abroad is increasing, so is the global competition for the ‘best and brightest.’ Declines in the
number of international students, especially in the science and engineering fields so critical
for innovation, will affect the ability of higher education, business, and government to
engage in research and development.Additionally, international students represent an impor-
tant means for strengthening U.S. cultural diplomacy around the world (Bain et al. 2006).
The difficulties of weighing and measuring EAP learners take an interesting turn
when studying Mass Provider Japanese HEIs in the process of neoliberalization.
Although their SPUs are processing a large number of students, some sort of exter-
nal measurement is needed as an International Standards Organization (ISO) quality
marker, because social promotion in Japanese universities means that internal grad-
ing offers little indication of a graduate’s quality. At these venues, the challenge
facing Command & Control is in finding a prestigious test that will recognize the
work that EAP students have put into English study, and which can be used as a
qualification for employment after graduation.
For Japan, this is a major reason why the Test of English for International
Communication (TOEIC) has been promoted with increasing insistence over
the past several years by administrative managers across the country, since this
is accepted by Japanese companies as a prestigious external assessment standard of
domestic graduates’ second language proficiency. First developed specifically
for Japanese students, and with an emphasis on English for business communication,
Japan’s industry leaders have fueled efforts to implement TOEIC in Japanese HEIs.
High scores on the test are often a requirement for new hires or for those seek-
ing promotion in their organizations. Even at workplaces where English is rarely
used, TOEIC scores are still utilized by Japanese company recruiters as a means
for determining the potential diligence of college graduates. Managers have
frequently explained this point during faculty-corporate networking dinners run
by NUGIS of the type mentioned in the introduction of this book. In multiple
unrecorded conversations, managers expressed the belief that most Japanese
students know that they will not need English after graduation. However, if a
student still attains high scores on the TOEIC test, managers feel that such a
student will work hard in the company regardless of how meaningless or uninteres-
ting the task might seem.
5 Weighing and Measuring
115
The problem for Command & Control at Japanese HEIs arises from TEAP
resistance to TOEIC. It will be remembered that, until recently, in terms of providing
the type of diversity desired by Japanese Command & Control on campus, the
emphasis has been upon hiring foreign language teachers over that of recruiting
international students. Similar to the expectations in the US and UK for interna-
tional students, repertory grid data indicated expectation of Command & Control
informants in Japanese HEIs for TEAPs to be genki (active), fureshu (fresh), and
kyouryokusei no aru (cooperative). Unfortunately, like many of the international
students in the UK and US, many TEAPs end up banding together in closed com-
mon language groups, where they solidify negative opinions about Japan and their
HEIs. Similar to the dynamic with many international students in the US and UK
HEIs, the result is that TEAPs are seen as gloomy (kurai) and selfish (wagamama)
by Command & Control.
Many TEAPs and BLEAPs interviewed in Japan spoke of their rejection of
administrative attempts to introduce TOEIC as an external assessment of their
classes. The following is a typical account:
Informant: A few years ago they wanted us to do TOEIC…What I mean is they wanted
results, sellable results.
GH: I see.
Informant: And so they wanted basically to dump what we were doing and embrace TOEIC
and there was this implied threat to do it or else…so I had to go on our big PR tour and talk
to the big bosses and tell them TOEIC wasn’t suitable, but in fact we were doing it and
nobody was willing on their side to push any further and it died –
GH: You mean the big bosses at your school lost the will to keep pushing it?
Informant: Yes. They didn’t have someone to fight on their behalf
GH: Why did they give up? I am curious because at another school here, there was this
huge push to make the entire curriculum fit with TOEIC. Then after everything was set up,
and students were not passing the classes, it just disappeared.
Informant: I think they realized that I knew what I was talking about and I sold them on the
idea that we were doing TOEIC…I should say that we were planning to do TOEIC.
GH: Oh. So you told them that you were already doing TOEIC, even if it wasn’t exactly
what they envisaged, and so it fizzled eventually?
Informant: Yes they thought ‘oh they are doing and thinking about TOEIC - ah okay.’ But
in honesty at that time we had nothing…bluffed…and nobody on their side was keen to
pursue it any further.
GH: I see. You say that you didn’t think TOEIC was appropriate. So it was your quiet
resistance that stopped this initiative?
Informant: It wasn’t quiet. I hit the hallway circuit…I would call it lobbying…basically
they couldn’t make us do it, we told them it wasn’t doable, but told them we were on the
problem and had things coming up, and on their side they didn’t have an expert to match
us…there was nobody in the department that supported them.
GH: Interesting.
Informant: …and they didn’t have a guy who could have fought us…so the big cheeses just
gave up…(Interview, September 16, 2010).
Others who have studied resistance of TEAPs and some BLEAPs to TOEIC con-
clude that it proceeds from beliefs in its incompatibility with current teaching meth-
ods. Not only are there fears about the disruption that might be caused from creating
new lessons designed for passing the test, there are also concerns about a further
5.5 Weighing & Measuring International Students
116
loss of autonomy in deciding classroom content (Fox 2009, p. 34; Sugino 2010).
My own field research supports these findings, as in this excerpt from a TEAP:
We have been told by people we trust within our organization that the TOEIC has nothing
to do with communicative language ability and is therefore incompatible with what we are
teaching. It thus seems to be a vestige of a backwards approach to language learning in
Japan, which will result in a lot of wasted effort with no communicative ability to show for
it (Informant E-Mail Correspondence, December 2, 2010).
TEAPs also resist what they see as an imposition of a neoliberal agenda that threat-
ens the teaching of cultural values that they believe are intertwined with the teach-
ing of English. Understanding this dynamic sheds light on the underlying issues
driving the exchange in a published interview on the role of TOEIC in the EAP
classroom with Robert Woodhead, a test writer for Educational Testing Services
(ETS), the company that produces the TOEIC and TOEFL tests:
DJW: Graded readers are flooding the commercial market – is this the right way to go or
are there other as good or better kinds of reading?
RW: Assuming you mean in relation to improving general reading proficiency to be measured
by the TOEIC, the kind of reading activities would need to be leveled…
DJW: Many of the readers are actual British literature, often classics. Content-wise,
wouldn’t they be less relevant than writings relating more to the current use of language in
a work-related environment?
RW: As the TOEIC is designed as a test of English used in the international workplace,
I don’t really think classic British literature would have all that much value. More effec-
tive materials might be written using contemporary language.
DJW: If any materials are potentially useful depending on their use, does it matter if they
are of limited scope (such as classic British literature)? Or is a wider variety better?
RW: As I said before, the more limited the scope the less useful they would be in terms of
test preparation.
DJW: Should materials include information about business culture?
RW: If the purpose is preparation for the TOEIC, then probably yes (Wood 2010, p. 42).
Focusing on TOEIC implies a focus on the culture of business, one which is
guided by neoliberal values. For Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs, then, the challenge is
in finding a way to deal with resistance, to pave the way for assessing students, and
to present marketable results to outside stakeholders.
5.5.2 Strategies for Weighing & Measuring
International Students
Strategies to meet these challenges, which were less defined than what was observed
with programs and teachers, were those of Non-action, Narrative Construction, and
Alternative Implementation of Prestigious Tests.
For international students who stayed in enclaves after ignoring invitations to
intercultural exchange events and other activities designed to promote international
understanding, the most common strategy observed was that of ‘non-action’, that is,
to do nothing and call upon the neoliberal tenet of individual choice:
5 Weighing and Measuring
117
GH: [the NUGIS students] seemed to gravitate, from what the EAP teachers are saying,
they seem to gravitate quickly to the Asian Student Association, and join it, and the vast
majority of the students in that group are Japanese. The EAP teachers actually don’t like
that, because they think that the students are spending so much time with the Asian stu-
dents that it’s taking away from their experience with American students, and there may be
something to that, but what can you do? I mean one of the reasons why my school wanted
the students to come to Polaris was that it was far away from Hawaii or California or
Guam. Guam would have been a much cheaper option but they said, ‘Well if the students
go there they’ll just hang around and speak Japanese all the time and they won’t learn
any English. If they go to Polaris they’ll have a better chance of interacting with
American students and such.’ If they get here and they run down the street and hang out
with the Japanese students the whole time, what are we going to do about it?
Informant: (smiling broadly) Well there’s nothing you can do. You know, it’s like anything…
all things in moderation usually are not harmful. You know, and so it’s something you can’t
prevent and I think if a student were to use it for that kind of purpose that’s a good thing. If
that causes them to interact significantly less with American students or other interna-
tional students, students from Mexico, students from Brazil, students from whatever, then
that’s not good. That would be that. That’s really up to the individual (Meeting, November
27, 2006).
Such students, as mentioned earlier, are otherized and erased from memory.
The way in which this is done is by focusing on the minority of international stu-
dents who participate in their projects. In what psychologist Jerome Bruner (1991,
p. 4) would call a purposeful act of narrative construction, ‘a version of reality
whose acceptability is governed by convention and ‘narrative necessity’ rather
than by empirical verification and logical requiredness’ can then be created. As
a contingency strategy, the BLEAP can then focus on the small number of suc-
cessful international students while simultaneously excluding from active con-
sciousness the failures of the majority. This allows the BLEAP to weigh the
success of the ‘real’ students and showcase the success of the EAP unit. Although
mostly observed, this strategy emerged during an interview, in which a BLEAP in
charge of an EAP unit discussed the problems experienced after recruiting a large
influx of mostly Asian students. After a long exchange on this problem, the infor-
mant then shifted the conversation to focus on one particular student who had:
definite…goals in mind. And she had ways in which she would reach those goals…despite
any hold, anything that held her back…you know, in terms of, stagnant curriculum or a
class that was boring. And she would…find ways to make that, more interesting (Interview,
November 28, 2005).
Such students are often described as persevering and self-directed, qualities
referred to as ‘low maintenance’ in British EAP Units, and language which is
evocative of the mechanistic portrayal of EAP as a Student Processing Unit.
Such students support Hunting & Gathering as success stories in university
PR materials.
Another contingency strategy observed was the implementation of alternative
testing schemes more palatable to TEAPS, such as the Common European
Framework (CEF) for student language proficiency assessment. Its communicative
focus tends to ameliorate some of visceral resistance among TEAPs to external test-
ing, and it is common to find considerable Japanese managerial interest, since it is a
5.5 Weighing & Measuring International Students
118
prestigious test associated with relative economic success of the EU. The test is also
applicable to vocational training, as a BLEAP at a Japanese women’s college
explains:
Informant: I also in my proposal that was accepted told the powers that we would be
adapting the Common European Framework for assessing language ability. That was a bit
of sales pitch to win their vote and also let then people know in the department that account-
ability was coming…how that materializes is a different story –
GH: ‘Accountability is coming’…to whom?
Informant: To the teachers.
GH: From?
Informant: Me.
GH: Ah. I see!
Informant: The powers just didn’t want a directionless practical English department.
So I tossed out the CEF. They jumped all over it. And the other side was to let the profs in
the department know that we are going to be changing to [something] more practical skill
based and that this will be evaluated by CEF.
GH: And these skills are for what practical purpose?
Informant: For years the English Department has been graduating kids who don’t have
any English ability at all, so on one side the goal is to make sure that everyone in the
Department knows that we are now going to be graduating kids who can speak, write,
English. Now many schools are advertising English for tourism, so that is the other target.
Our girls can work in hotels, or travel companies, maybe airline stewardesses –
GH: English study as training for use in employment?
Informant: (long pause) Yes (Interview, September 6, 2010).
Others have sought to link the CEF to the TOEIC in tenuous ways. One TEAP
informant at a Japanese Dreamweaver HEI noted this during the development of an
in-house EAP assessment test that was created soon after the university’s new presi-
dent called for more ‘practical’ English courses. Based upon the CEF, though regu-
larly compared to the TOEIC, it is a norm-referenced test used both as a placement
test and end of term assessment. The informant questioned the validity of these
activities and felt they were driven by BLEAPs, ‘in large part to provide evidence
of student progress and further justify the existence of the course to university
administrators’ (Informant E-Mail Correspondence, November 28, 2010).
Strategies for Weighing & Measuring EAP students are located within the struggle
for control over the Center of Praxis. Command & Control needs hard data in order to
justify later efforts at Molding & Shaping. To varying degrees, however, the difficulty
comes in that those who could be mined for such data are largely resistant. They are
prone to withhold either their participation or their support. Far more effort at building
bridges and establishing rapport is needed before BLEAPs can succeed in this area.
5.6 Weighing & Measuring BLEAPs
Assessment of BLEAPs depends upon the intensity of neoliberalization at the
HEI and upon the BLEAP’s professional trajectory. At HEIs transitioning from a
Mass Provider to that of a Sausage Maker, BLEAPs were rarely measured either
5 Weighing and Measuring
119
by external or internal forms of assessment. However, they were constantly
Shadow Assessed both by those above and below them, and therefore needed to
engage in regular self-assessment to determine whether they were ‘succeeding as
a leader’ and ‘achieving the goals’ of Command & Control for the EAP unit. From
reading the situation around them, politically astute BLEAPs in EAP units instinc-
tively knew what was expected of them. This often had very little to do with
academic concerns.
BLEAPs taking the transactional approach, and who were in Mass Providers
that were, for the moment, holding their own, tended to operate strategically by
furthering the aims of administrative management through a loosely controlled style
of management over TEAPs, students and programs. These BLEAPs typically
taught classes in the EAP program alongside their co-workers and underwent the
same external and internal forms of measured assessment as faculty, meaning they
had to publish, insure student satisfaction with their classes, maintain TEAP satis-
faction and keep the confidence of Command & Control.
5.6.1 Challenges to the Weighing & Measuring of BLEAPs
The goal for BLEAPs, if Weighing & Measuring could not be carefully managed,
was in how to avoid it altogether. This, however, was not peculiar to Blended EAP
Professionals. It was seen across the spectrum of those working in administrative sec-
tions of neoliberal HEIs. The following is from an interview with a midlevel
Quality Assurance administrator at an American Dreamweaver HEI:
GH: I have noticed everywhere that assessment typically focuses on faculty. Students assess
faculty, and faculty are assessed by administrative management. Teachers assess students
via grades, mitigated in some HEIs by student assessment, but there does not seem to be
much in the way of faculty assessment of administrators. Have you noticed this? If so, do
you know why? I have yet to find an HEI that employs 360 assessments.
Informant: The administrators would not want feedback on their work, because they would
get terrible results. (Informant E-mail Interview, October 29–November 1, 2010).
These views were repeatedly confirmed in other interviews with BLEAPs in
charge of EAP units, especially the Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs who viewed them-
selves more as administrators than teachers, and who certainly did not want to sub-
mit themselves to assessment, suspecting that the results would be negative:
GH: I recognize that a lot of effort has gone into gauging student satisfaction and evaluating
teachers, but have you seen at your HEI anything related to the evaluation of administrative
management by students and teachers? I haven’t seen much of this at other places, but
maybe I haven’t been looking or asking the right questions…
Informant: No 360 evaluations – but it is a good idea. I feel the teachers would say I do not
do a good job and need ‘a real TEFL professional’to run the program. They are wrong, of
course (Informant E-mail Interview, Sept 29, 2010).
Success in avoiding the same rigors of audit expected of others is one aspect
emerging from the neoliberal governance in HEIs that causes resentment among
5.6 Weighing & Measuring BLEAPs
120
‘the assessed’. This breach in the human contract of fairness feeds into views of
those in the Center of Praxis, who see Command & Control as a collection of
unprincipled and self-interested people:
Informant: Pardon me for being cynical, but administrators seem to be focused on building
their own CVs so they can get jobs elsewhere, not meeting the needs of the faculty and stu-
dents below them. To me, it is a form of corruption, and it is rampant.
GH: Yes that is probably the crux of it. But ironically, of the administrators that I have
interviewed on the issue of assessment, and it is a topic which they often raise in interviews,
even though they are not assessed by others, they often assess themselves on whether they
are succeeding as leaders. By not allowing themselves to be assessed as they assess others,
they undermine the rapport needed to gain the respect of others. It would seem that in order
for assessment in HEIs to succeed, it would have to be a 360 experience. Am I being too
simplistic?
Informant: I don’t think you are. I don’t think self-assessment is the best kind, when
it is the only source of feedback (Informant E-mail Interview, October 29–November
1, 2010).
Self-assessment often lead BLEAPs to judge themselves less in terms of peda-
gogic skills, and more in terms of if they are managing in a way that one might
expect for a corporate setting:
Informant: I am taking over the English department. So [I] need to be more managerial
savvy. Leadership savvy.
GH: Recently in my research on people who are in your position, I have found that, in
self-assessments of the quality of their work, people in your position are more inter-
ested in how well they are doing in terms of leadership than they are in terms of teach-
ing. Not that teaching is unimportant, just that the focus or priority has shifted.
Informant: Oh for sure!
GH: Really? Tell me more. I’m interested…
Informant: Well my teaching is really unimportant for the economics of the school and the
senior people now see me more as a political player and the person in charge of making the
department profitable again.
GH: I have noticed in my observations elsewhere that Command & Control will assess a
person in your position on how well you keep the teachers relatively satisfied…or at least
compliant to administrative plans. Those people in your position who have groups of
uncooperative teachers who want to do their own thing are often seen as poor leaders.
That is, the behavior of the teachers reflects upon you as a manager. What do you think
about that?
Informant: Oh for sure. My rep in the uni is how well I keep everything quiet and
happy. For sure. That’s a huge part of my job. And the teachers don’t realize that the
less trouble there is the less trouble they will have as far as cuts and so forth. Seen and
not heard. I have two jobs. Keep the kids happy and the teachers doing their jobs. So
far I have been good at it…so the uni sees me as a pretty important person because I
can manage big things without problems (Interview, September 6, 2010).
Transactional BLEAPs also sought either to work with or work around shadow
assessment in their HEI. However, Sinking BLEAPs did not set aside time to address
formal and informal self-assessment. Instead, they tended to devote their energies to
teaching or to research.
5 Weighing and Measuring
121
5.6.2 BLEAP Strategies for Weighing & Measuring
StrategiesobservedfornegotiatingWeighing&MeasuringwereImageManagement,
In-Group Construction, Authoritarian Deliberation, Kettling, Providing Structural
and Moral Support, Defusing Teacher Rebellion, and Protective Firewalling. These
are explained below.
One strategy for insuring the favor of Command & Control is Image Management,
in which BLEAPs sought to either demonstrate or create the impression that they
were members of the Command & Control tribe:
GH: So if you want to move up in the organization, you need to be seen as right of center
politically, business oriented, innovative, and focused on generating surpluses for the uni-
versity? Then someday you’ll be in a top-level post in the organization?
Informant: Yes for sure. 100 percent. Maybe at an elite university you can be a trophy, but
where I am, you have to be all that you said. If I never published again nobody would care
as long as I got our quota of students (Interview, September 6, 2010).
After establishing rapport, BLEAPs must continuously cultivate an image of
successful, innovative EAP leadership:
Informant: I go and tell them, ‘Hey look we are doing’this and that and ‘our student survey
feedbacks say this’…I did make a program that was evaluated by MEXT and they praised
all facets of it to the head cheeses who then realized I knew what I was doing.
GH: Ah. I see. So you go and tell them rather than wait for them to ask you.
Informant: Yeah I go and tell them…keep them in the loop…let them feel like they are on
the inside…the guys are at the top and if you make them feel like they know what is going
on then they can say in meetings…’[BLEAP name redacted] said this.’
GH: I see.
Informant: So that made me look good…I meet the [Board of Governors] people in the
hallways like I did with the Prez last week in the garden…or I go see them…and when we
get into committee meetings they toss out my name… ‘yes [BLEAP name redacted] and I
talked about it…I think it is good.’
GH: You do a lot of politicking!
Informant: They don’t know what is going on so you have to get them to know so they look
good and look in control which makes them trust you (Interview, September 28, 2010).
Image management sheds light on why BLEAPs, especially the Upwardly Mobile
ones, underplay or even hide negative reports. Weighing & Measuring relates more
to highlighting success than in revealing the actual conditions of the EAP Unit.
Another strategy taken when possible is In-Group Construction. This property
will be explained in greater detail in the Molding & Shaping chapter, since it is use-
ful for both social processes. In relation to Weighing & Measuring, In-Group
Construction fosters the creation of a tight-knit group of loyal TEAP followers,
through which BLEAPs avoid dissent of the type that would make them look weak
in the eyes of Command & Control. Not all BLEAPs have the institutional authority
to remove dissident teachers, but if BLEAPs have been successful in Image
Management, over time, they could eventually gain enough influence to have
5.6 Weighing & Measuring BLEAPs
122
nonconformists removed, thereby assuring positive assessment. This strategy is risky,
however, because it may inspire more fear and loathing among TEAPs. During an
interview following the use of repertory grids, a Command & Control informant
discussed a more refined strategy for Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs aspiring to become
administrators, which was to value teacher input and create a sense of teamwork
necessary for implementing administrative policies for EAP:
GH: How is teamwork…realized? What’s a, what’s a team player, for you?
Informant: Uh, I initially had…I wrote, ‘worked collaboratively and in teams’, and so I used
the one word ‘teamwork’…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: I guess what I meant by that is that the administrator works, they’re not dictatorial…
they work collaboratively.
GH: I see.
Informant: Uh, they work with those, that report to him or her…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: ...and uh, to determine then, uh, you know…policies and how we follow them
and so it’s…it’s, getting people to, to work together, and valuing their input (November 29,
2006).
This informant continued by explaining that such skills would be important
for the head of the EAP unit. This was understood by the BLEAP in charge of the
unit as ‘moving language teachers to the correct level’. Moving teachers to a correct
level also supports Molding & Shaping, but as a Weighing & Measuring mainte-
nance strategy, TEAPs are persuaded to cooperate with administrative plans. How
this is accomplished depends upon discovering the particular needs and desires of
the TEAPs. If successful, the BLEAP can then give positive reports to powerful
campus patrons, thus insuring that the EAP Unit, TEAPs, Students and the BLEAP
are all weighed favorably.
Creating teams for discussing how to carry out the predetermined plans of
Command & Control entails what Chinese scholars (He and Warren 2008; Jiang
2008) have called authoritarian deliberation. Under the guise of communitarian
and democratic activity, authoritarian deliberation, explain He and Warren (2008,
p. 2), involves persuading the powerless to discuss how to further stabilize and
strengthen the agenda of the powerful. While this is a common feature of modern
life in China, it is surprising to find it viewed so positively among administrative
informants in neoliberal HEIs.
If authoritarian deliberation fails, and when faced with the danger of TEAP dis-
sent that may reach the ears of Command & Control, another tactic is that of ket-
tling. Borrowed from the containment strategies developed by British police for
hemming in protestors as a mean of preventing their protests from causing further
public disorder, kettling has since spread to authoritarian, post-democratic societies
as a strategy for allowing people to protest only in certain confined spaces. In this
way, protestors can burn out their anger while their demands continue to be ignored
by those in power. The effectiveness of this strategy is in the elites’ ability to stifle
dissent while still appearing to support freedom of expression and the right to pro-
test. I have observed both Upwardly Mobile and Transactional BLEAPs effectively
5 Weighing and Measuring
123
using this technique with TEAPs and international students. BLEAPs accomplish
this by creating either a closed online forum or gathering in a meeting hall where
dissenters are welcomed to give full vent to their anger. BLEAPs listen, take notes,
and empathize with concerns. All dissent is kept from reaching the eyes and ears of
outsiders. The dissenters, who focus their energies on the BLEAP instead of on
those outside the Third Space who have greater authority and power to effect
change, unwittingly facilitate this strategy’s success. During observed incidents
where kettling was used, TEAP protestors and dissenters eventually grew tired of
expressing their anger. After a period of sullen silence, they returned to working out
the demands of authoritarian deliberation.
Yet another strategy for insuring the positive shadow assessment of those under
the BLEAP, one often described as ‘strong’ and ‘successful’ by Upwardly Mobile
and Transactional BLEAPs, was in providing structural and moral support to teach-
ers so that they in turn could provide care for students. The BLEAP of the Polaris
EAP Unit discussed this during a visit to NUGIS. After comparing classes in the
NUGIS program to the one at Polaris, he commented that:
Informant: …the differences would be that I think that your teachers…have a different
support structure for them. I think that they’ve got…a program that’s well developed and
has strong leadership for them that allows them to being…uh…cares about them a little
more. So I think that they…probably display that more with their students within the
classroom.
GH: Hmm.
Informant: Our program historically has had…uh…weak leadership as far as that, it went
without leadership. You’ve got, you know, you’ve got duel appoint-if you got duel appoint-
ments in any point in time…and that means me…and their passions are…are mixed…I
mean, you might have some affinity to something or other…I think that that is a shame…
GH: Mmm.
Informant: I think the teachers have, um, have some feelings about that. And I think that
they…they would like to have strong leadership. I don’t think that they want to be leaders
themselves, actually…I don’t think that they want that. But, what they do want is…more
leadership from me.
GH: …and that leadership is defined as…? I mean, there’s, there’s all sorts of…
Informant: Well, I think, you know, I don’t know how far they want me to go. Crea,
curriculum-wise…probably, nowhere at all. But what they do what me to do is to be sit-
ting down there, and, and going through…the, the management aspects…uh, of the program
and, and showing them the, you know, how much, you know, telling them that we’re going
to do a trip, and this is how much money you have, and…I, I think they want me to be there
and be…uh…a leader in that sense…
GH: …I see…
Informant: …and that’s not the way that I see…leadership.
GH: Uh-huh…
Informant: And I don’t know if we’re starting to get over now into the leadership of
the program…but, the teachers, uh…you know, yours are probably more, because of the
caring, because of the leadership, because of what you’ve set up I feel, that that’s…I feel
that that’s innovative…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …and I feel that that’s a result of careful thought…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …and caring about…larger things (Interview, May 10, 2006).
5.6 Weighing & Measuring BLEAPs
124
Innovation and strategic thought about the larger things are key qualities by
which educational entrepreneurs assess themselves. The way these qualities are
implemented, however, is also considered in the chapter on Molding & Shaping.
Relying on the opinions of TEAPs is a perilous place when assessing one’s suc-
cess or failure in a neoliberal HEI. As one BLEAP at the University of Wensleydale
noted, attempting to manage TEAPs was akin to herding cats, andAnderson (2006a)
cites many studies documenting how university teachers tend to be highly suspi-
cious and resistant to those seeking to manage them in ways that are at odds with
their professional identities. Like other university faculty, many TEAPs have seri-
ous attachment issues with those in authority. Recognizing this, Transactional
BLEAPs tend to take more sophisticated approaches to insuring positive shadow
assessment from TEAPs. One was to come clean with their lack of positional
power, and publically acknowledge to TEAPs that their group dissent or dissatis-
faction would eventually cost the BLEAP his or her career. Others, in a calculated
move of dramaturgical performance, went further by offering TEAPs the opportu-
nity to remove the BLEAP from his or her post:
I get renewed officially every three or four years, and always say to my staff, ‘Well if you’ve
had enough of me, that’s fine, just …’And they have a meeting by themselves, at which I’m
not present, and I say, ‘If one of you want to become it, or you want to bring someone else
in, I’m not going to be offended. I’ve been here long enough.’And fortunately for me, they
decide to renew the contract (Interview, October 31, 2008).
It is a truism that people love to give power to those who do not seem to want it.
Acknowledgement of TEAP power and offers to step aside effectively defuses the
tendency among many TEAPs to resist authority.
Transactional BLEAPs have neither the time nor the interest to tightly manage
the EAP Unit, especially if they must also engage in knowledge production for
satisfying external assessment. Therefore, they often repackage their inability to
control the program in terms of ‘giving teachers freedom’ or ‘trusting them as
professionals’:
I think trust is the most important thing. I think that underlines just about anything you do
in life, and…I think that you would give someone a job before and you’d say, ‘This is your
job. Go and do it.’And you’d trust them to do it. And there wouldn’t need to be official paper
controls on whether they’ve done it – you wouldn’t need to have appraisal systems to see
whether they’ve done it. You just trusted them. Now, OK, some people would abuse the
system, so you’d get some people not performing up to standard and you would have to do
something about that. But now, because this trust has gone…it’s all back to numbers and
measurement (Interview, October 31, 2008).
Within this confederation of trust, the Transactional BLEAP continues to win the
favor of TEAPs by cultivating an image as being one who both supports their cause
and protects them from the interference of Command & Control:
GH: What would then be a key principle that guides your management style?
Informant: I think really support, I think making sure that staff particularly have all the
support I can give them. And I think that’s really important. Support and development
really. I think that’s a key thing about it I think, and protection. Protection in the sense to
this you’re in between university admin and the teachers, and I think protecting the staff
5 Weighing and Measuring
125
from too much interference from admin, and sorting out the problems before they actually
get to staff in a sense, I think that’s very important. And also presenting a view to the
administration on a reorganization of staff, because there are people in the university that
still don’t really know what we do, and that’s actually very important (Interview, October
31, 2008).
Protection of this type also relates to what I will discuss later as the strategy by
which Transactional BLEAPs attempt to slow down the process of administrative
Molding & Shaping, which I call ‘firewalling’, and which is discussed in the next
chapter. Nevertheless, it is within the context of protection that Transactional
BLEAPs hope to enable teachers to try out new ideas and take charge of their work
without tight controls:
going back to this protection thing, is you’ve got a group there of fairly individualistic
people…they’ve all got huge talents, they’ve got huge energy, huge motivation, and you’ve
got to preserve it, and it’s very easy to destroy that. If you can’t let them … you just really
have got to let them create opportunities and let them develop, and develop those opportu-
nities as much as you can within administrative and financial constraints and things like
that, but you can’t actually start …certainly with our unit, and I think it’s general within
most of the certainly humanities departments, you can’t actually start telling people what
to do. Basically you suggest and so on, but ultimately the ideas have got to come bottom up
and you’ve got to encourage that as much as you can (Interview, October 31, 2008).
Through expressions of trust, offering protection, and by allowing TEAPs the
space to innovate, Transactional BLEAPs have a better chance of insuring teacher
satisfaction. Transactional BLEAPs tended to express a ‘trickle-down’ theory that,
in satisfying teachers, this would in turn lead to satisfied students. Any positive
feedback or other collected data can then be safely reported to Command & Control,
who might then allow Transactional BLEAPs even greater latitude and autonomy
within their EAP units.
Many of the qualities by which Transactional BLEAPs assessed themselves, that
of teamwork, providing support, seeking balance, showing respect and that of serv-
ing as a protector, can also be found in Bryman’s (2007) exhaustive literature study
of successful HE leadership qualities. Areas where BLEAPs meet with resistance
and failure can also be found in other scholarly studies (e.g. Wildy and Louden
2000). Based upon my reading of the literature, Transactional BLEAPs assess them-
selves as successful when they feel they have enabled those in the Center of Praxis
to develop their own talents, knowing this strategy wins the trust and support needed
both for the shadow assessment of Command & Control, and for later on if Molding
& Shaping is required. Transactional BLEAPs essentially give people permission to
find their own satisfaction and to develop their own means of productivity. Once
they are working on their own, the BLEAP can focus on the things that truly give
them pleasure in life. If other external assessment based on research activities is
unavoidable, then their papers or presentations will feature testing, curriculum
development, and other aspects of the EAP unit where the BLEAP has succeeded in
insuring satisfaction and success. Such publications are equally helpful for weigh-
ing internal to the HEI, since these papers can be presented to peers and stakehold-
ers, thereby strengthening rapport with these important support groups.
5.6 Weighing & Measuring BLEAPs
126
5.7 Chapter Summary
This chapter has studied some of the external and internal factors that contextualize
Weighing & Measuring in neoliberal HEIs, with particular interest in how this
affects EAP programs, TEAPs, International Students and BLEAPs.
TEAPs are assessed mainly along the lines of manufacturing based quality, espe-
cially in terms of service conformance (Crosby 1979, p. 67), which is that of deliv-
ering lessons to student consumers in a satisfying manner. Often viewed as an
extension of the teachers themselves, EAP programs are assessed in terms of prod-
uct based quality, that is, if the program is measurably producing and processing an
adequate number of students for the HEI. Because neoliberal HEI administrative
management also associates international students with the overall success and fail-
ure of the EAP program, they too seem to be assessed partly in terms of whether
they achieve product based quality, that is, whether they are manifesting the type of
ideal person that administrative management wishes to have interacting success-
fully with domestic students, and whether or not they are making positive, innova-
tive, and active contributions to the HEI that proceed from their own unique cultural
perspectives. When possible, Upwardly Mobile and Transactional BLEAPs assess
themselves by transcendent quality. They build upon their proximity between
Command & Control and the Center of Praxis to ‘know intuitively what excellence
is and how to deliver it’ (Koslowski 2006, p. 282). They assess themselves accord-
ing to the skills that will ensure their success with management (for Upwardly
Mobile BLEAPs) or both Management and those in the Center of Praxis
(Transactional). They may present themselves as a bureaucratic entrepreneurial
leader, unit protector or cutting edge academic. Sinking BLEAPs at neoliberal HEIs
rarely engaged in such activities, and if they did so successfully, the frequency of
such moments did little to offset the dim view of Command & Control about the
quality of their work.
The nature of this critical grounded theory has multiple flows from Hunting &
Gathering to Weighing & Measuring in this chapter. Weighing & Measuring leads
to Molding & Shaping, and it is to this third social process that we shall now turn.
5 Weighing and Measuring
127
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2_6
Chapter 6
Molding and Shaping from on High
I enjoy working with the students as a teacher, not as an administrator and one who’s always
layingdowntherules.Butwheregreaterimpactoccurs,iswhenIcanmake…strategicdecisions.
And so, that puts me in the administrator role. And if I’m going to be in administration…I’d
rather be in a place…and this doesn’t sound very good at all…but I’d rather be in a place that I
can mold and shape from up high…(BLEAP Interview, November 28, 2006).
6.1 Introduction
In the past, universities in Japan, the UK and USA emulated the ideals of democratic
societies, and most of the pedagogic as well as major bureaucratic decisions were
decided in faculty senates (Noll and Cohen 1998, p. 42). Increasingly at neoliberal HEIs,
however, faculty governance has given way to authoritarian deliberation. As Readings
(1996, p. 3) predicted, the nexus of power and determination at most universities today
has shifted from the Professor to the Administrator. Collegiality and egalitarianism has
yielded to a stratified class system with Command & Control management seeing them-
selves both as removed from and superior to faculty, students, and those who strive
within the Third Space. As one HEI administrator told Flora (2008, p. 70), ‘It’s a good
place to be. I have landed on top of the wedding cake and I’m not coming down.’
Molding & Shaping has affinities with the managerial term ‘enhancement’.
Although enhancement suggests a slight adjustment, it usually entails much more.
One BLEAP from the University ofWensleydale, borrowing from Kreber (2008, p. 28,
2010), described enhancement as less about doing things better, and more about doing
better things. Molding & Shaping results from the economic clout gained through
Hunting and Gathering and the evaluative activities of Weighing & Measuring. These
provide Command & Control with a powerful ‘big picture’ view. Molding & Shaping
consists of doing better things, both by creating and owning bureaucratic and peda-
gogic frameworks, becoming the primary source for strategic decisions, making an
impact on campus life, and reshaping the professional identities of those within the
128
university. Plans for enhancement and transformation proceed from inaccessible
‘green zones’, and tertiary level EAP programs find themselves in the position of rely-
ing upon the patronage of administrative power in order to survive before they are
finally transformed into administrative colonies. This chapter considers these issues,
and studies some of the implications that Molding & Shaping has for EAP in neolib-
eral HEIs (Fig. 6.1).
6.2 Seeing the Big Picture
Molding and Shaping requires a vision for success. While discussing the role of
EAP, one senior administrator used the analogy of a puzzle to outline a clear hierar-
chy, with Command & Control administrators strategically understanding most of
supports supports contributes to
justifies
is a property of
is a property of
results in
results in
results in
Molding &
Shaping
Weighing &
Measuring
Seeing the
Big Picture
Maintaining
Control
Making an
Innovative
Impact
EAP Reliance
on
Administrative
Patrons
The
Reshaping of
Professional
Identities
Colonial
Transformation
Fig. 6.1 Interconnected theoretical codes and properties of molding & shaping
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
129
the institutional reality. Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs see more of the puzzle, and
TEAPs exist on the periphery with only the smallest pieces:
Informant: …we’re all like a piece of the puzzle. And sometimes we see the entire puzzle,
sometimes we just see a corner, sometimes we just see the, the bottom line or, or the side of
a puzzle…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …um, and all too often, uh, faculty, it’s all too easy for any of us to…get a bit of a tun-
nel vision…and see just our piece, or maybe just those pieces that…we connect to…And, uh…
GH: …and what do you mean by that? That’s interesting, the connected pieces as such. Can
you make it a little more of a specific…can you make that a little more specific in what you
mean?
Informant: Well, uh (clears throat) sure…we look and see, well this is what I do every day.
I come in and I, I teach, uh, maybe two classes in the morning and then meet with small
groups of students in the afternoon…so my planning…has to do with helping those stu-
dents, uh, achieve at a certain rate…trying to find new experiences for them…uh, is there a
new textbook available…how do I get more out of the, textbook or are there other materi-
als…what’s the latest on the pedagogy in this area, maybe I, I need to go to a conference
so, very focused on what’s happening in that, classroom.
GH: Right.
Informant: Right? And, the pieces around me, might be, well, what is that, uh, is the stu-
dent having a problem in their…in their residence halls, or how are they…affecting them…
or their admission status…or are they studying hard or are they, whatever?
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: Um…then the next level would be the uh, would be the coordinator of EAP. Uh
and, and it’s their job then not just to see that one teacher’s puzzle…piece…and the ones,
that are just on the outer ring......but what’s that whole corner look like?
GH: Right.
Informant: And by, by that I mean, uh, they would say, well how does EAP, fit in, with our
other international programs. Are we recruiting, uh, when we are recruiting overseas, are
we telling students about our EAP opportunities…
GH: I see.
Informant: Uh…and then, at, at my level, whether it’s the dean’s level or a provost…Well,
instead of seeing just that, uh, the one piece, or the pieces surrounding it…or the…face in
the corner…well, hopefully we’re seeing most of the whole puzzle. And we see where that
fits with everything else so it’s, it’s not just well how does that fit within the international…
program. How does that fit with what’s going on, totally within the college of arts and sci-
ences…or the graduate school, or, all three colleges all through academic affairs, through
the whole university (Interview, November 29, 2006).
Such views are common, as other recent qualitative studies on the professional
worlds of HEI administrators have found (e.g. Mestenhauser and Ellingboe 2005;
Flora 2008). Knowledge is power. Big picture knowledge becomes the raison d’être
for making a transformative impact in their HEIs, and EAP is often an important
piece of the new picture puzzle.
6.2.1 BLEAPs and the Big Picture
The degree to which others in the university agree with the administrative picture
for neoliberal HEIs has a bearing upon their usefulness for future enhancement
initiatives. Based upon their deep-seated beliefs and professional trajectory, the
6.2 Seeing the Big Picture
130
participation of BLEAPs in the Molding & Shaping of EAP will be seen either as a
great opportunity to move closer to Command & Control, or the beginning of a deep
personal crisis pulling them back to the Center of Praxis. BLEAPs who gain access
to more pieces of the puzzle also become privy to sensitive information about plans
for the reshaping of EAP that may significantly affect the lives of TEAPs. Strategies
that BLEAPs may employ in dealing with this knowledge are those of Withholding,
Leaking, and Firewalling.
Withholding knowledge of the larger puzzle pieces demonstrates loyalty and the
potential for facilitating sensitive strategic projects closer to the realm of Command
& Control. However, in all of the HEIs in my study, Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs who
withheld knowledge lost rapport with TEAPs after plans had been set in motion and
it becomes public knowledge that the BLEAPs had done nothing either to prepare
or protect their units. To these BLEAPs, such risks are acceptable, since their goal
is to leave the third space and gain a stable position in Command & Control.
Leaking information about big picture plans to those further down in the Center
of Praxis, however, is a Sinking BLEAP strategy. Even though teachers appreciate
the access to information, Command & Control will be quick to plug the flow of
damaging information leaks. By preventing the BLEAP from gaining any further
knowledge that might compromise their plans, leaky BLEAPs are effectively pushed
further down into the Center of Praxis.
An example of what can happen Sinking BLEAPs who leak came from an infor-
mant who served as a Director of Studies for an EAP unit at a Sausage Maker College
in the UK. Early on, she was informed by administration about planned cuts and TEAP
layoffs, but was instructed not to divulge this information until the end of the academic
year, in order to avoid disruptive labor disputes. This informant watched as TEAPs
worked, oblivious to what was coming, but could not endure the stress of withholding
vital information from people that she cared about and identified with as an educator.
She began to leak information to her teachers in order to prepare them for the upcoming
crisis. However, this negatively affected teacher morale and put her at odds with her
superiors, who cut her off from knowing about any further plans. Divested of structural
support, she had to face her staff alone. The added stress and dissatisfaction of being
unable to leverage influence from her downgraded position in the college was such that
she soon resigned. I met her in the Center of Praxis at a British university presessional,
as she was unable to locate any BLEAP-related work elsewhere.
The cruel irony is that while leaking information was initially appreciated by
teachers in her department, after losing her standing with management, she was held
in quiet derision by the very people whom she had sought to help. In the dehuman-
izing politics of neoliberal HEIs, following the first flush of pity, few have the
energy to maintain feelings of long-term affinity with those who have lost the game.
For Sinking BLEAPs, the strategy of divulging information results in immediate
gain for long-term loss.
A strategy used by Transactional BLEAPs entailed a steady moderation of the
initiatives spiraling down from Command & Control towards the Center of Praxis.
These BLEAPs leverage their place in the gap between those in command and those
involved in pedagogic production. The more successful of these BLEAPs engage in
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
131
‘firewalling’, which relates to protecting TEAPs by finding and heading off any
plans from Command & Control that Transactional BLEAPs believe would disrupt
either their own professional lives or the lives of those working in their EAP units:
If there’s any part of the job that’s stressful I suppose it’s that particular part where you’re
having to represent the centre to the university admin, and tell them what you do all the time.
Because you’ve got to be very careful all the time that they don’t start making policy deci-
sions that affect you, and those policy decisions are based on ignorance of what you do. This
is a big problem with language teaching; sometimes people come into it, say a new head of
school or a new dean, and they don’t have this conception of what you do. They think you’re
just basically language-teaching…And you really have to quickly get in there and tell them
what you’re actually doing and what the centre does (Interview, October 31, 2008).
One example of firewalling was seen in the chapter on Weighing & Measuring
with the incident described by a BLEAP who sought to stop or slow down the top-
down implementation of TOEIC into his EAP unit. Other typical firewalling strate-
gies involve BLEAPs dissuading Command & Control from implementing
disruptive plans, often by educating powerful administrators about the existing
strengths of their programs:
GH: How do you, if I dare use this word, how do you package or market your unit to them
in a way that satisfies them?
Informant: The one side is financial of course, in that you demonstrate to them that
you’re actually quite an income generator for the school or the university, that’s one way
you can do it. But that has its dangers too, ‘cause then they think of course, oh well,
(sly-sounding voice) that’s good …
GH: We want more.
Informant: Yes! (Laughs) And that’s all that you’ll do. But the rest, basically you have to
sort of invite them in so that staff can tell them what they do, you show them the research
profile you’ve got, anything you can do, basically, to convince them that you do research as
well as the straight teaching…(Interview, October 31, 2008).
The BLEAP can then adopt an, ‘if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it’ stance towards
proposals that would disrupt the function of their SPUs. If this succeeds in giving
Command & Control a moment of pause, the BLEAP can then begin mediating the
communication between upper-level Command & Control and those in the Center
of Praxis. Moderating between firewalling and steady negotiation allowsTransactional
BLEAPs to position themselves as a valuable asset, while slowly gaining greater
control over the situation. Success in this is vital, since dissent among those in the
area of production, regardless of the reasons, is often attributed to the BLEAP’s
failure as a leader.
6.2.2 TEAPs in Obscurity: Puzzling Out a Different Picture
This strategy of creating space for TEAPs while simultaneously acting as a firewall
against opportunistic academic entrepreneurs is an effective response to the daily
pragmatic concerns of the SPU. However, a weakness in this approach is that it
maintains the disconnectedness many TEAPs already feel with their HEIs, due in
6.2 Seeing the Big Picture
132
large part to their rejection of the neoliberal vision of HE promulgated by their
administrative managers (Pennington 1992; Hargreaves 1994; Rasanen 2008).
Discord between TEAPs and Command & Control tend to compound their feelings
of isolation in the university:
Informant: …we’re just a headache to them…To be honest, I think they have no idea what
we do. I mean, I think that they… I really don’t think they have any idea what a language
teacher does.
GH: What does a language teacher do? Because I suppose a lot of times they say, ‘Well,
how come you’re so busy?’You know?
Informant: I don’t think that you can think that far.
GH: Really?
Informant: I think that, I mean, I think we’re just so totally invisible (Interview, November
6, 2008).
Paradoxically, while Command & Control feels that TEAPs are incapable of seeing
the big picture, most TEAPs interviewed worked from an entirely different picture, a
conclusion supported recently by Crookes (2009, pp. 201–211). This picture puzzle
was one in which TEAPs felt that their administrative managers were the ones who
held only a few pieces. The failure of both administrative management and TEAPs to
appreciate their different mental blueprints about the ideal role and purpose of Tertiary
EAP is a major feature contributing to the difficulties that BLEAPs and Command &
Control informants encounter when trying to retool TEAPs for current needs.
6.3 Maintaining Control
The key strategies for maintaining control are established in the beginning through
the designation of administrative management as the sole source of procedural
framework generation. Afterwards, the ownership of processes are then claimed and
maintained by the creators. Other strategies for control maintenance are In-Group
Consolidation, the Establishment of Green Zones and Flow Management.
6.3.1 Creating Process Frameworks
It bears repeating that aspects of Molding & Shaping draw sustainance from
Weighing & Measuring, in that administrative scouts are first sent out with an array
of instruments for benchmarking an HEI program. Afterwards, specific bureaucratic
processes are established to enhance the program according to administrative man-
agement guidelines. These procedures reflect the big picture of administrative man-
agement, and are promulgated by representing it as the consensus of the entire
university community.
Example of this were seen at a recent symposium held by Hosei University in Japan,
which has reached a stage in its corporatization where they have started to investigate
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
133
various quality assurance framework models. Of particular interest was a keynote
address by the Head of Quality Assurance & Enhancement at the University of
Birmingham (UK) regarding the development of their Birmingham Integrated Quality
Assurance and Enhancement System (BIQAES) (Bradley 2012). This process frame-
work had been implemented soon after the university had restructured to the organiza-
tional model ofAmerican State Universities (New College Heads Drive Change 2008).
The preamble of BIQAES is a common reflection of the degree to which the new
managers of Higher Education are willing to go in order to enhance their institutions:
BIQAES encompasses the key processes which the University has put in place to monitor,
review and enhance academic standards, the quality of its learning, teaching and assessment
and the academic support given to students. It is intended as a reference document for
University staff and students, and those outside the University involved in its quality pro-
cesses (Birmingham Integrated Quality Assurance and Enhancement System (BIQAES)
Guidance 2010, p. 2).
It is common that when new frameworks for control are being created, Command
& Control embodies itself as ‘the University’. This begins the process of otherizing
and stigmatizing the dissenting staff and students as separate, and framing them as
those who need to be constantly monitored and eventually enhanced. Within this
conceptual panopticon (Currie 1998, 2005; Kanji et al. 1999), the meaning of
‘process’ shifts from ‘doing things systematically’ to reified ‘rules’ or ‘edicts’ that
must be obeyed. Observe, for example, the manner in which ‘process’ was used
when one American State HEI contacted me to request a letter of recommendation
for a former MA student seeking a post in their EAP unit:
You are listed as a reference on [name redacted]’s application. By process, our district may
not consider an applicant for employment prior to our having obtained feedback from all
persons listed as references. Therefore your participation in this process is very important
to [name redacted]’s pursuit of employment with our school (E-mail Correspondence,
September 6, 2010).
6.3.2 Owning the Process
Once the process framework has been established, ownership is maintained by
Command & Control, who link their professional identities with ‘the process’. In
what Merton (1967, p. 253) described as ‘goal displacement’, the original purposes of
the process give way to the strict adherence to procedures. They own the process,
but in turn, the process owns them. This has implications for many aspects of
Tertiary EAP, because the attempt of TEAPs or Sinking BLEAPs to change any
part of ‘The Process’ for the needs of international students is interpreted as a
direct challenge to managerial control:
Informant: …it’s a policy that’s, is fairly inflexible…it’s a universal policy [and]…they’re
not going to give you any leeway, and then, helping the student through a pretty trau-
matic time and, just the system doesn’t have any give in it, and those sorts of things, and I
really feel it…
6.3 Maintaining Control
134
GH: …it’s still set mostly for students who are, from the community, from the region, really?
Informant: Yeah. It’s a policy that’s there for everybody. So then we don’t need to worry
about, differences, or approach difference or how do you manage for different relations, or
how do you fit culture into the, you know, you just basically say, this is our policy, it’s our
policy for all students, and all that, and that’s the way it is and that’s the way it’s done.
It’s, you know, I have to deal with those things and lobby slowly, and say there’s got to be a
way to deal with policies that there should be a way to incorporate culture into your
decision-making process. And so, I’ve started to do more of that, but that, those are, those
are hard battles that are personal, that, you know because you’ve got people who own the
process, and you know…if you criticize that then you’re criticizing the person that owns that
policy or process and things…
GH: …Wow… so it’s very…you have to be careful here?
Informant: Yeah, it’s, I mean, it’s a quality systems model with a very heavy dash of
politics tossed in because it is a small community, and I do know who that person is and I’ve
met them personally, and when you question them, then you appear to be someone who is
rabble rousing to effect, you know, nobody really wants to question…(Interview, November
20, 2006).
International students arriving with special needs pose an especially difficult prob-
lem for administrative management intent upon asserting their authority through pro-
cess control. TEAPs are often complicit in the attempt to modify processes through
international student advocacy. Their focus upon the individual international student
over that of facilitating mass pedagogic production contributes the discord often
observed between TEAPs and their administrative management, and this goes to
issues surrounding the expected role of TEAPs, a point to which we will address later
in this chapter. Empathetic EAP educators in the neoliberal HEI, because of their
advocacy on the behalf of international students, often end up terminally attached to
the bottom of the organizational ladder, as this Sinking BLEAP observed:
Informant: …Caring for people … supporting them, it’s a waste of time.
GH: It’s a waste of time, huh?
Informant: It’s not … it’s valued so little in our system. The people who spend a lot of time
helping students, encouraging students, they don’t get any recognition for it. And because a
lot of people are career minded, they don’t do it.
GH: They’re not going to waste their time.
Informant: The people I think are most empathetic and helpful towards students are the
ones usually at the bottom of the ladder (Interview, September 12, 2006).
The strategy that BLEAPs often used in response to those seeking exceptions for
EAP students matched Ball’s (2003) study of performativity. As a first move, there
would be a statement about the dependability and robustness of a bureaucratic and/
or pedagogic process. Next, the BLEAP would often refer to a group of experts or
outside agency that approved of the established processes, which served to establish
an owned precedent that, it would be explained, could not change and so required
one’s ‘cooperation’. If TEAPs or others persisted, the response would shift to push-
back strategies, as I learned when NUGIS wished to implement a Japan-based
policy for student attendance while its students were at Polaris. After some perfor-
mative sidestepping, the BLEAP in charge of the EAP unit responds:
I believe that our policies are strict and I know the teachers communicate this to the students.
Without speaking to [the administrative manager in charge of international programs]
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
135
first, our absence policy will remain the same. I am not advocating, and never have, for
NUGIS-specific policy. If you have higher demands on the students, then you will need
to communicate those to them before and after their semester here. We will work to
provide the data you need. I hope that clarifies my stance and [the TEAPs] will answer
your specific question about specific absences (Informant E-mail Correspondence,
February 8, 2008).
Process control maintenance, once owned by stakeholders within the HEI, can cre-
ate contradictory interactions within other parts of the institution. One part of
administrative management strives to bring in increasing numbers of international
students while other sections deeply resent and resist the disruption caused by such
‘foreign’ students to the established procedures of their parts of the HEI bureau-
cracy. This is especially difficult for frontline administrative staff in the Center of
Praxis who have little autonomy to change processes. Hard words are used to
describe interactions with international students:
When you’re standing at a desk, and you’re dealing with international student after interna-
tional student after international student, it becomes really… it becomes really stressful,
because you, first of all, it’s a battle to communicate all the time. You’re always having to
think about how do I communicate this information correctly. You can feel angry at groups
of students who won’t accept what you say, and who want to negotiate all the time. So
I think in my job at [redacted] University, I really saw them as the enemy, although people
that I got to know, I felt more empathetic towards, but generally, they were the enemy
(Interview, August 28, 2007).
Transactional BLEAPs often respond by moderating the interpersonal and inter-
cultural issues, knowing that process change would take too much time and energy:
When we first started the EAP program with the Japanese, because I also worked in the
library a little bit and knew the library and so on, I heard maybe within the first semester, this
like ‘well they make me so mad because they’ll come and ask me something; I don’t under-
stand them’or ‘I don’t hear them and then I ask them again and they won’t … won’t answer.’
Well that’s a cultural thing. And what you have to … I thought what we were doing is we were
saying ‘look Dummy, I can’t understand you.’Don’t do it. Turn it around and say ‘I’m having
a problem hearing’…so I got several of the librarians together and we had an afternoon
session of how we should be responding to Japanese, Korean, Chinese, that they would be
EAP students, and after I talked to them about this cultural difference that I saw, that I know,
they started using their approach differently and I think they got along very well for a while
(Interview, November 28, 2007).
The goal is to redirect people towards how to work together and to understand
each other. A significant benefit is that both international students and frontline
staff can broaden their perspectives and accept each other’s cultural differences. At
the same time, proposals for changing the system are sidestepped and control is
quietly maintained. Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs employed similar strategies. Often
in their case, working to refine international students to be better assimilated into
the university, and training administrative professionals and teachers to provide
better service to students was seen as contributing towards Molding & Shaping
their HEIs into places that would be better at equipping graduates to succeed in a
globalized economic society (Ashwill 2004; Connell 2007a, b).
6.3 Maintaining Control
136
6.3.3 In-Group Consolidation
Roger Goodman, a sociologist and Professor of Japanese Studies at Oxford
University, reported on an incident that took place at Yamagata University in 2006
(Goodman 2010). The story begins with the administrative management atYamagata
University inviting AkioYūki, a senior civil servant from the Ministry of Education,
to apply for the presidency of the university. The faculty, however, was strongly
opposed, stating first that the practice in Japan of government bureaucrats entering
such high profile positions was inherently corrupt, and something that the current
government had vowed to eradicate. They also argued thatYūki, a career bureaucrat
who lacked teaching or research experience, could not possibly understand the aca-
demic culture of the institution.
The faculty voted against Yūki’s appointment in 2007, but because Yamagata
University had been corporatized in 2004, democratic governance had been effec-
tively abolished: A Presidential Election Committee composed of business leaders
and other non-academics from outside the university had been established, and after
taking the election results under advisement, they appointed Yūki as president.
In the ensuing months,Yūki drew sustenance from his Ministry of Education connec-
tions to completely reorganize the horizontal university structure to a vertical top-down
management model. He handpicked the heads of major departments as well as the vice
presidents to carry out his will. Yūki explained in an article on university reform that
while listening to the views of everyone within the university and seeking to reach a
consensus was more democratic, it was also slow, and he felt that he should take ‘prompt
action’in order thatYamagata University could ‘keep pace with the times’(Yūki 2012).
This incident made national headlines in Japan because it was a prime example
of what was taking place at other universities not only across the country, but
around the world. For example, at Polaris, shortly after finishing the last sets of
interviews used to help develop this critical grounded theory, a new president
was appointed in the wake of the former president’s sudden and emotionally
charged resignation. Similar to what has been played out over the history of
power relations from the courts of kings to the backrooms of corporations,
within a year, virtually ever member of Command & Control had been replaced
by people chosen by the president.
These are examples of In-Group Consolidation, which is the recruiting of team
members with the necessary skills and loyalty for facilitating change and maintain-
ing control of an organization. A typical description of the role, expectations and
outcomes for in-groups was outlined in an alumni newsletter article from the
University of Birmingham, which as mentioned earlier, had restructured itself to
emulate the organizational model of American State Universities. These changes
involved the creation of ‘College Heads’, who were play an important role in the
Molding & Shaping of the university into a neoliberal HEI:
The Heads form part of a new senior management team, directly influencing strategy and
ensuring that academic endeavour is at the heart of decision making. This will enable the
University to respond to change more quickly, seize opportunities and compete favourably
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
137
in an international market. With a mixture of internal and external appointees, all recog-
nised experts in their fields, the new Heads of College bring experience and innovation to
the University, helping to shape it for the 21st Century (New College Heads Drive Change
2008, p. 2).
In-groups maintain processes and work out strategic action plans. They protect and
support their superiors during times of institutional conflict, which was frequently
described by several administrative informants as ‘giving push-back’. Depending
upon one’s perspective and relation to administrative management, In-Group
Consolidation will be interpreted either as the formation of tribes, the creation of
cronies, or simply that of developing a talented action taskforce.
In the four HEIs where In-Group Consolidation was observed taking place in
EAP Units, it was always spearheaded by Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs seeking to
accomplish the goals of Command & Control. One BLEAP informant from a
Japanese HEI, who over time was able to gain managerial powers of the type that
are unattainable for most BLEAPs, explains:
Informant: I pushed out all the teachers and the union. And now everyone is hired by me
including the Japanese…
GH: Everyone is hired by you? Wow.
Informant: I screen and do the interviews. One time two years ago the hiring committee
rejected some teachers I wanted hired. And I had to go to the committee and defend them.
The Japanese from my group were stunned at how quickly the committee caved in.
GH: You know, I call that process ‘in-group construction’. For people in your position, the
ability to create a team of like-minded coworkers will give you power to do innovative
things that will create an impact on campus.
Informant: In-group construction. I like that. We hire a lot of inexperienced people who are
hungry and then basically show them how to do things well. Those are the people I hired…
GH: I see. Sort of younger versions of yourself?
Informant: Exactly.
GH: Interesting. I have seen others who did not have the authority to make their own in-group,
and as a result, they struggled terribly. They rarely got things done with their language
program.
Informant: That is huge…you need to control the people you hire.
GH: Sounds like you got rid of those people who didn’t agree with you, and then you
replaced them with people who you could work with.
Informant: Yes. I fired a few as well (Interview, September 16, 2010).
This BLEAP was later lauded for turning the EAP program around, and through
this, was able to expand his power and influence in the institution even further.
Once the In-Group has been created, it must be maintained. Some Upwardly
Mobile BLEAPs solidify their control over In-Groups by becoming instrumental in
the development of TEAP contracts:
GH: My reading of the literature suggests that teachers resist managerialism or the
attempts of those to manage them....seems that they will often get entrenched and resist any
plans that a manager might have for the curriculum. That is why I asked.
Informant: I take that as a given…resistance. So I use the unfair advantage I have.
GH: Which is?
Informant: In the last year my job has become less about pedagogy and more about
managing the business contracts. They have to sign contracts. And once they do they have
to follow the curriculum.
6.3 Maintaining Control
138
GH: Ah. So they have to follow your instructions or you do not renew their contracts?
Informant: In short yes (Interview, September 6, 2010).
Such heavy-handed tactics do seem to work, though the question is for how long.
Even if a BLEAP has a clear picture of what truly motivates Command & Control
and regardless of whether he or she has claimed ownership of the process of EAP
innovation, if the BLEAP loses the strategic support of the in-group, Molding &
Shaping will fail. Rapport with TEAPs is lost in two ways: Divided Loyalties and
Failing to Protect.
In terms of divided loyalties, at one research venue, following the replacement of
a Sinking BLEAP who resigned, Command & Control undertook a cost-saving mea-
sure and removed the funding for the EAP coordinator’s post. An EAP teacher
became the new BLEAP, and was in charge of both EAP and the university’s fledg-
ling International Program. This effectively divided the BLEAP between two units,
with the BLEAP’s office being located in another building far removed from the EAP
Unit. That, combined with frequent meetings with administrators, made the BLEAP
increasingly inaccessible to TEAPs and students alike. While before, the BLEAP’s
background in TEFL was seen as a plus, the lack of regular contact contributed to a
change perception among the TEAPs that their new coordinator was not one of them
after all. Instead, they reconstrued him an overworked administrator who spouted
uninformed notions about EAP that were:
…certainly not idea[s] that we teachers here in the [EAP] Program have. We are in the busi-
ness of education, in which we help students discern their own goals and help them attain
them. We are not in the business of entertainment in order to keep students happy and return-
ing for more. If our classrooms are attractive, exciting, or active, it’s because we believe that
will enhance the students’learning, not because it will attract more students down the road.
And ask any one of our students – our program is not fluff. It’s hard.
[The EAP Director] has a very murky idea of what we do in the classroom since his only
EAP experience is from teaching funsie conversation courses in [East Asia]. Maybe that’s
where the administrators got their idea of what we do – I don’t know (Informant E-mail
Interview, August 5, 2008).
Another factor that will quickly contribute to the BLEAP’s failure is if they are
perceived as not protecting TEAPs from the plans of upper level administrators.
This was the beginning of the demise of one Upwardly Mobile BLEAP at a British
EAP Unit. The BLEAP had replaced an entire group of rebellious summer teachers
with a new in-group the following summer. This allowed for curricular innovations,
many of which were also part of the BLEAP’s ongoing advanced graduate degree,
to go forward with the in-group’s enthusiastic support. Most of the BLEAP’s in-group
willingly overlooked the linkage of his graduate studies to the program, until there
was a sudden 40 % increase of students per teacher in the classroom. The attempts
to provide the same level of attention to an increasing number of learners resulted in
burnout and fatigue among the in-group. Dissent reached a boiling point in a weekly
staff meeting, and after a period of extended kettling, the BLEAP explained that the
decision to increase workloads was a result of the EAP Unit’s shift to administrative
management:
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
139
[The EAP Unit] is no longer an academic entity – it’s part of Corporate Services,
which serves the university rather than focusing on issues about the language. So its
whole mission statement and purpose is changed (Staff Meeting Transcript, September
19, 2008).
Morale sank further as he explained that he supported the changes, and that the
only option was to work harder in order to provide the same level of academic sup-
port. Teachers then raised the point that fatigue was being compounded by a consid-
erable amount of reports, moderation meetings, grading sessions and the writing of
lesson plans for securing British Council accreditation. The BLEAP agreed, but also
reminded the teachers that accreditation, like the increase in class sizes, would bring
greater prestige for the Unit, so this too was unavoidable.
After this meeting, the TEAP In-Group went through a rapid shift in perception.
What before was seen as innovative reforms drawn from the BLEAP’s cutting-edge
graduate research, was now seen as the means by which the BLEAP was profiting
off of their sweat equity. With the ensuing loss of rapport and demoralization,
I noted that teachers secretly began to subvert the processes of the program. Some
of the strategies used included privately conferring with each other on the grades of
students’ final projects, which effectively sabotaged the process of blind marking.
Quite a few expressed a belief that the international students would be accepted
regardless of their assessment, so any effort to reduce what they saw as meaningless
work in the face of increased classroom loads was felt as justified. Suspicions
among the In-Group about the Upwardly Mobile nature of their BLEAP were
confirmed later when he moved up to a Command & Control position at another
university less than half a year after completing his advanced graduate degree.
Therefore, in order for BLEAPs to maintain control, they must constantly strike
a balance between the stakeholder needs of students, teachers and Command &
Control. Losing support among any of these groups spells disaster.
6.3.4 Green Zone Construction and Bunker Building
On September 28, 2008, the Times Higher Education Supplement featured an innocu-
ous article about an incident at Oakland University, a Michigan State HEI. Due to
an unspecified threat from a disgruntled student, a policy was quickly enacted to
restrict students without an appointment from all administrative offices. What the
article highlighted was that the policy had been unexpectedly applied to faculty as
well, as one professor learned when she was physically barred from delivering a
faculty complaint to a senior vice president about proposals to cut faculty wages
(Faculty Banned from Admin Office 2008). The ramifications of this seemingly
minor incident became clearer a year later when the faculty went on strike to protest
pay cuts and a loss of faculty governance at a time when senior administration and
the president had all received hefty pay raises (June 2009).
6.3 Maintaining Control
140
The placement of Command & Control HEI management in facilities that shield
them from the rest of university life is defined as Green Zone Construction. Green
Zone Construction draws its symbolism from the Anglo-American occupation of
Iraq, in which military and political leaders were protected within a ‘Green Zone’,
and from where they could attempt to manage the country as well as implement
changes without fear of retaliation. For the administrative management of HEIs,
Green Zone Construction performs a similar function, and for senior administrators,
the task of mediating between their HEI and major corporate as well as governmental
stakeholders, has a distinctly BLEAPish quality. They require a safe place where
they can strategize safe from disruptive organizational insurgents. Similarly,
Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs seeking to implement Command & Control strategies in
the Center of Praxis aspire to create their own space of unassailability:
Informant: …it’s, it’s hard to put a policy in place, and…well, and that’s really terrible…
but, you know, you, you put a lot of policies in place, and then you have the personal aspect
where the policy you’ve created…is potentially hurting somebody …you know, as far as, as
far as…the international students go…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …you know, you say, you know…this is how we’re doing it, and they’re sitting
there saying you’re the bad guy type of thing. So…if I’m going to be in administration,
I’d rather be higher than where I am now. Middle management is a tough place to be, in
general, and so…my goal and where I see myself would be at a, a higher level where I’m
directing things from a little bit higher up, without, the student interaction (Interview,
November 28, 2006).
The creation of green zones is important for maintaining control. The closed,
almost fortress-like nature of their existence and their ability to keep dissent outside
are only fully realized during times of crisis, when green zones become the focus of
angry protests and the site of class warfare, as witnessed in the UK during the 2011
student protests of tuition fee increases.
Green zone construction contrasts sharply with the manifestation of Bunker
Building observed among TEAPs at two of the HEIs in this study. Bunker Building,
as the term suggests, is the use of defensive tactics designed to stave off what TEAPs
see as threats to their vocational well-being. While Green Zones facilitate change
and minimize the risk of attack, TEAP bunkers resist outside innovations as an
attack and minimize the risk of change.
Field observations of the struggle between those operating from Green Zones
and the resistance from bunkered TEAPs revealed that the BLEAPs were always
perilously situated in middle. TEAP Bunkers tend to be difficult targets for HEIs,
and unless the BLEAP has gained extraordinary powers from the organization, attack-
ing them results in massive casualties in terms of reputations, career futures, class
disruptions, and student dissatisfaction. It was observed at two HEIs that after a
long standoff, Command & Control was unwilling to risk a costly and disruptive
‘bunker-busting’ campaign. This caused some of the initiatives for further changing
the EAP Units to linger in ambiguity, and left the BLEAPs to suffer both the
disappointment of administration for failing to actualize their innovative plans, and
suffer an unrecoverable a loss of rapport with TEAPs.
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
141
6.3.5 Flow Management as a Control Maintenance Strategy
Flow Management is the decision-making process for directing the flow of resources
to programs and departments within the HEI. My term is similar to Tyagi et al.
(1988) understanding of funds management, which through resources, such as
space, time, staff support, autonomy and money, Command & Control can channel
work to flow in a direction that actualizes strategic goals for the HEI. As with other
aspects of Molding & Shaping, Flow Management derives its impetus from
Weighing & Measuring:
To ensure adequate financial resources are available to support current operations and new
initiatives and to assess their financial risks, many types of analyses can be performed,
including the analysis of cash flows and of current liabilities versus current and projected
budgets. The specific types of analyses will vary from organization to organization. These
analyses should help your organization assess the financial viability of your current opera-
tions and the potential viability of and risks associated with your new initiatives (MQA
Education Criteria for Performance Excellence 2006, p. 51).
In this way, control is wielded less as a coercive ‘do this or you’re fired’approach,
and more as encouragement to vie for resources provided for programs and educa-
tional initiatives that satisfy the administrative big picture for the HEI. Bremmer
(2007, p. 42) and Lazzeroni and Piccaluga (2003) see this aspect of Flow
Management as a growing international trend in HEIs. Informants added that more
funding was being channeled towards training students in marketable skills for
future vocations, while cultural initiatives in EAP and the work of academics in
Philosophy, History, and other humanities, were slowly being starved to death:
We have a grants office person that works specifically with the Science Department
(Biology especially) in helping to bring in money for new initiatives…this is used as ratio-
nale to ‘re-allocate’ College of Arts & Sciences (CAS) monies for hiring, as the Sciences
need additional people to manage the new programs. We, on the other hand, must make do
with adjuncts, and no new Full Time hire, and a thin budget for activities.
Also, using 2009–10 ‘credits generated’ data, hard numbers on department costs,
including personnel, versus bodies in seats in classes, we learned last week that one of four
Art Dept members was axed. Argument: not enough students in classes, and too few majors
and minors. Two new hires in the College of Business, though, will go ahead, as the univer-
sity hopes to expand a new MBA program (in a thoroughly saturated market). Cash flow
and revenue were the words (Informant E-Mail, May 5, 2010).
Such views evoke strong responses from Command & Control administrators,
who see this as evidence of a lack of understanding about the key pieces in the HEI’s
proverbial picture puzzle. They explain that, especially for state-supported HEIs,
resource flows are managed through complex decision-making systems with a mul-
titude of funding sources (Tyagi et al. 1988). Any ‘surpluses’ are reinvested back
into the HEI to stabilize the institution during difficult economic times. Profit mak-
ing and using money as an instrument of control, as this administrator explains,
misses the point:
One problem is a longstanding situation in which some programs and elements of a uni-
versity mission are far more expensive than others. These differences can be easily seen
6.3 Maintaining Control
142
in the ‘cost per student credit hour’ tracked for department operations. At [university
name redacted] those range anywhere from half of the tuition rate to three or four times
that rate. Humanities programs are the cheapest to run, and because of that are critical
to minimizing debt. So, even though it may appear that universities are attempting to
starve those programs out of existence, they are merely trying to maintain the highest
positive gap possible between cost per credit hour and the tuition rate, because they
know they will always run a deficit in sciences (and music, theater, etc..)…I suppose what
all this means is that in assessing the sociology of an EAP program, actions that may
appear to be representing cultural attitudes directed at the program are merely the col-
lateral consequences of quite complex funding restraints, that are at worst indifferent to
the EAP program –particularly if it is not central to the mission of the school. While
individuals or programs within the institution may value it highly, the broader matrix of
funding (within the constraints of macro-cultural values) may apply constraints that
make educational and micro-cultural preferences irrelevant (Informant E-Mail Interview,
May 21, 2010).
TEAPs and academic faculty, however, refuse to believe such explanations at
face value, primarily because their lived experiences within the institution tell them
otherwise:
…even more interesting is that these administrative resources rather than trickling down to
departments seem to be trickling up into their own budgets. In the past two years we have
had tremendous budget cuts relative to the economy, which have forced us to cut classes,
reduce staff, freeze salaries and increase tuition and class fees while at the same time
administrative salaries have continued to increase…It is interesting to me that as our
enrollments are at record highs, the budgets continue to be reduced even though as the
economy gets worse and people lose jobs they come back to school. Where is the ‘flow
management’ in all this? Makes me wonder where the money goes (Informant E-Mail
Interview, May 18, 2010).
A similar question was asked by the American Association of University
Professors (AAUP) during the faculty strike at Oakland University. Their investi-
gators found that Oakland, like most state-supported universities, had developed
a wealth of ‘unrestricted net assets’ outside of state funding rules that could be
spent at the discretion of the Board of Trustees. From 2000 to 2008, the amount
of funds held in these accounts increased by 185 %, and apart from these funds,
the university continued to make an annual 6 % surplus every year even after tak-
ing in account the total amount of yearly expenditures (AAUP Oakland Newsletter
August 21 2009). While teachers received salary cuts and students were saddled
with significant fee increases, the Board of Trustees awarded the president and
senior administrators with double-digit raises from these unrestricted net asset
accounts (June 2009). This is a phenomenon that is being replicated as American
business practices further infuse the globalization of HE. A recent news report
from the UK found that in 2012 alone, the vice chancellors of both top and
middle level universities received average pay raises of 8.1 % to their six figure
salaries. The total amount of these yearly pay raises were, in many cases, greater
than the average salaries of many faculty and frontline administrative staff, who
received a cost of living raise of only 1 % after a 6 year freeze on salary increases
(Garner 2014).
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
143
During the world financial crisis of 2008, it was noted that many CEOs of banks
and other major corporations accepted raises or bonuses at the same time that their
employees were being laid off and their organizations were losing money. Informants
spoke of similar practices at their HEIs, and observed that even in the cases where
Command & Control did not take raises for themselves, after cutting faculty salaries,
cutting back on budgets for teaching materials and educational programs, money
would be put into the renovation of buildings and creation of new facilities – often
in close proximity to the Green Zones. New construction would often accompanied
by the appearance of statues and artwork – something one BLEAP felt was a reflec-
tion of values that were at odds with an institution which was historically devoted to
educating and developing people:
…there’s all kind of [private funding]…this huge mass of artwork pieces that are on the
back of that, all kinds of money for that, but our janitors are quitting because they haven’t
seen a pay raise in ten years…that’s the larger disagreement I have with the admins, that
when you start cutting things, at some point education will falter…I believe they make
choices on what to spend money on compared to people. They’d rather spend them on build-
ings than people (Interview, April 9, 2009).
While this and other informants’ interpretations highlight unawareness about the
lack of fungibility in HEI budgeting, many in the Center of Praxis conclude that
flow management is more about the exercise of power than it is about economic
accountability. This resonates with the work of Steven Levitt, co-author of the
groundbreaking book Freakonomics (Levitt and Dubner 2005). As part of this work,
they compared the economic structure and practices of African American drug
gangs in impoverished neighborhoods with those of multinational corporations.
Speaking on this topic, Levitt came to some tentative conclusions during a
Technology Entertainment Design (TED) Conference presentation:
Sometimes economists get it wrong, so one thing we observed in the data is that it looked
like, in terms of the gang leader always got paid, no matter how bad it was economically he
always got himself paid. So we had some theories relating to cash flow and lack of access
to capital markets and things like that, but then we asked the gang member, ‘Well why is it
you always get paid and your workers don’t always get paid?’His response is: ‘You got all
these niggers below you who want your job, you dig? If you start taking losses, they see you
all weak and shit.’ I thought about it. CEOs often pay themselves million dollar bonuses
even when companies are losing a lot of money and it never really occurred to economists
that this idea of ‘weak and shit’ could really be important, but maybe … maybe weak and
shit is an important hypothesis that needs a little more… (audience laughs) (Levitt 2004).
Levitt’s observations may be relevant to TEAPs working under administrative
management in neoliberal HEIs. As Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs and Command &
Control seek to maintain control by Molding & Shaping from on high, their decisions
on flow management leave many TEAPs feeling shortchanged, disenchanted, and to
use the words of Levitt’s informant, as ‘all weak and shit’, as intimated by one TEAP:
At the end of the day I’ve just become disillusioned with the whole thing…That’s how
I feel…‘Get on with it. You’re not here to…you want shit and crap and you’ve got it.’That’s
how I feel at the end (Interview, September 14, 2008).
6.3 Maintaining Control
144
6.4 Making an Innovative Impact
Achieving a level of prestige and prominence among competitors, otherwise known
as making an impact, is an important property of Molding & Shaping. Informants,
especially Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs, frequently aspired to make innovative
impacts in their HEIs:
GH: …what type of impact are you thinking about when you talk about, wanting to make,
uh, a bigger impact? What, what does that impact mean?
Informant: (sighs deeply) Well, I think, I think a slightly more profound change than what
I can do right now with my little glancing blows…stretched so thin like this…you know…
when you, when you…don’t have more than 30 minutes in a day to devote to sitting down
and doing something large and strategic…
GH: Right, Mm-hm.
Informant: But I, I would rather…make an impact, with the EAP program, and be able to
lobby for that and spend more time…I’m not effective because I think the position, just
doesn’t, allow you to be effective…they need a full-time director over there at EAP…you
need someone over there that’s going to be, I think, that’s going to be innovative, is going
to create…a good program that really truly benefits the University on a larger level
(Interview, November 28, 2005).
A key benefit to the university, apart from quantitative contributions through an
increase in international student numbers, begins when a BLEAP or member of
Command & Control uses Weighing & Measuring to assess a situation, judges it as
lacking in quality and uses the collected data as justification for Molding & Shaping.
The educational entrepreneur will then use the strategies described in this chapter to
bring about an innovative impact on campus.
Impact making, if it complements the understanding of quality held by those in
positions of authority, usually results in upward mobility. Not only have I noticed
enterprising TEAPs rewarded by through promotion to BLEAP status, Upwardly
Mobile BLEAPs can catch the attention of Command & Control by doing some-
thing innovative that contributes to their big picture plans. Impact making demon-
strates a BLEAP’s potential for a higher administrative management position or for
becoming a full academic. Success in this aspect of Molding & Shaping, however,
requires strategic thinking.
‘Strategic’ is a common lexical item in HEI administrative discourse. Strategic
thinking is one of a repertoire of managerial tools that Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs
in EAP units need to succeed, the others being ‘…implementing and sustaining
change; managing conflict; decision-making and risk-taking; and leadership and
action planning’ (Anonymous 2006, p. 12).
Strategic thinking is far more than, as one informant put it, ‘thinking what you’re
going to do next,’ My analysis of a corpus created from 3 years of the major articles
of the International Educator, a journal prominently displayed in the offices of
American Tertiary EAP programs, suggests that strategic thinking requires a keen
reading of the true (though often unstated) priorities of Command & Control. It
requires the ability to utilize in-group construction and authoritarian deliberation in
order to build like-minded, talented task groups who have a stake in the ultimate
aims of Molding & Shaping (Table 6.1).
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
145
BLEAPs often struggle to act strategically from the isolation of the Third Space of
their HEI. Finding the time to strategize while engaging in SPU maintenance is difficult,
which is why BLEAPs usually focus on EAP curriculum innovations. In the universities
where BLEAPs sought to make strategic impacts, the process was remarkably similar.
First, the BLEAP would determine that the existing curriculum was inadequate, usually
through surveys given to students suggesting dissatisfaction, but more often through
observations of teachers and students in the classroom. The BLEAP would then try to
create enthusiasm among TEAPs with a narrative of innovative dynamism, academic
rigor, and of making a significant contribution to the lives of the students and to the repu-
tation of the university. The BLEAP would at the same time approach Command &
Control for their support, assuring them that the impact would improve student recruit-
ment and support their mission goals for the institution. If the BLEAP was able to main-
tain communication on both sides without looking overly ambitious or self-serving,
progress towards making the impact was normally quite rapid in its implementation.
6.5 Consequences of Molding & Shaping for Tertiary EAP
Some of the results of administrative Molding & Shaping observed at many of the
sites access for this study were as follows:
• EAP surviving primarily on the patronage of administrative power,
• TEAPs undergoing the unwelcome experience of having their professional
identities reshaped from on high,
• Traditional EAP pedagogy augmented to include experiential learning and
practical skills,
• A loss of collegiality, disempowerment and ‘BLEAPification.’
Table 6.1 Analysis of ‘strategic’ using WordSmith
tools 4.0 (Scott 2005)
Most common collocates with strategic in International
Educator Journal
Lexical item Total
Plan/planning 43
International 26
Task 22
Force 20
Student/s 19
Goal/s 12
Education 10
Abroad 8
Campus 8
Intercultural 8
Clear 6
Commitment 6
Visible 6
6.5 Consequences of Molding & Shaping for Tertiary EAP
146
6.5.1 Surviving on Administrative Patronage
At every site, EAP units relied upon the good will and active interest of powerful
university patrons. While in the past, some of the EAP units had been both sup-
ported and created by academic champions, by the time of my study, all of the major
patrons were in administrative Command & Control. Typically, the chief patron was
a vice president, provost or administrative dean of international programs. Several
of these administrative patrons spoke of a formative experience from either travel-
ling or studying abroad when they were younger. Even for those who lacked such
experiences, they shared a common belief that active EAP units would contribute to
the prestige of their HEI, as one Upwardly Mobile BLEAP explained:
Informant: [the President] and, uh, [the Vice-President of Finance] and everybody under-
stand…understands that EAP is important.
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: We can’t be…we can’t have a proper international program without…
(deep sigh)…without the EAP program. No self-respecting place does (Interview, November
20, 2005).
Some EAP administrative patrons take interest in EAP Units because of their
potential to serve as the university’s embassy. The EAP Unit provides them with an
organization in the university through which they can assume the role of a senior
diplomat who invites and holds audiences with the foreign dignitaries of universi-
ties from around the world. When traveling abroad, these patrons can use EAP pro-
grams as a way to deepen diplomatic ties between universities as they seek to
develop mutually beneficial partnership. Such efforts bring prestige to the patron,
even if EAP units fail to generate financial surpluses:
[The Provost] and I looked at the EAP program very carefully, should it be a program we
killed or should we continue with it? That was really before we came to [university name
redacted] because we were having such low numbers and eight or nine and …(chuckles) we
spent a lot of time studying what it cost us and what we were doing with it and things like
that. We took it to [the President] and left the decision up to him, we basically saying it’s not
costing us in that kind of the number of students pay for the teachers and that but we don’t,
we’re not putting anything back into the coffers for space and heating and that. And [the
President] said ‘but I want EAP to continue because I want to be able to tell my people in
Korea we have EAP and can bring them over’(Interview, November 29, 2005).
However, difficulties await Tertiary EAP programs if they lose patrons or
experience loss through sudden changes in HEI leadership, as this BLEAP explains:
I heard a story at another university, [name and location redacted], had 300 international
students. New president came, international students was not his focus, and basically, they
went from 300 to 30 students, no director, they moved it off into other things (Interview,
November 5, 2008).
Making sure that powerful administrative patrons are pleased is an important
reason why Upwardly Mobile and Transactional BLEAPS engage in constant image
management, rapport building and the Weighing & Measuring of the Center of
Praxis. Disruptions by students or TEAPs are kettled so that news never reaches the
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
147
ears of patrons, because in corporate universities, BLEAPs know these patrons have
the power of life and death over the EAP unit.
6.5.2 Reshaping Professional Identities
In many ways, this property has been diffused throughout this critical grounded
theory, starting with the creation of Blended EAP Professionals in the third spaces
of neoliberal HEIs. As one BLEAP noted, HEI managerial initiatives require major
changes in the professional identities of those in the Center of Praxis:
Informant: …they’ve hived off the [EAP Unit] out to the administration. The teaching bit
of it. And the academics have joined the English department.
GH: Now the teachers that are in it now, they seem to feel… damaged. Because a lot of
them were using metaphors of working in a fast food restaurant, like ‘Would you like fries
with that’ or something. This whole issue of the effects that administrators have upon
teacher identity.
Informant: Yeah. Well especially if they are asking for a change in identity. I mean the
problem with the [EAP Unit], it had an identity as an academic unit, and it used to do
research as well as teach. It was a genuine applied linguistics department like that. And I’m
sure this is common with lots of other universities, because what’s happened now is that
there’s been a change of identity required now because you have been classified now as a
this or that.
GH: It’s interesting that the administration now has the power to assign identities.
Informant: Absolutely, yes.
GH: It didn’t have that before.
Informant: No, not at all. No, not at all. And that may go on increasing (Interview, October
31, 2008).
This transformation takes place regardless of the TEAPs’opinions of themselves
or their beliefs about their mission within the HEI. Throughout the development of
this theory, most of the TEAP informants interviewed saw their mission in terms of
what linguistic anthropologist Paul Friedrich (1988, 1989) would call linguaculture.
This belief holds that even though language and culture are constantly changing
in today’s world of restive international interaction, language and culture are
inseparable. Culture is taught through and because of the language. Language is
part of the culture, which is why TEAPs often feel a responsibility to address it in
the classroom:
…if you ask a student to name ten British authors, that’s one of the things that I like to do,
I say ‘name ten British authors, authors of novels, of fiction, writers.’ Then you say ‘right,
what have they all got in common?’The one thing they’ve got in common is they’re English,
use English as a mother tongue. Secondly they’re all dead. It’s extremely unusual to find
anyone naming a live British author.You occasionally get a Harry Potter, but nearly always
you get Jane Austin, you get Shakespeare, you get Dickens…My concept as teaching with
the Japanese Students would be this lead lecture where I get them involved in the cultural
thing: ‘I want you to know about…I know you’re interested in British culture so I’m going to
kick out …’ I don’t pretend to be an expert in it. Only to the extent that I’ve got an interest
in it myself (Interview, September 13, 2006).
6.5 Consequences of Molding & Shaping for Tertiary EAP
148
Much in the manner of a craftsperson, TEAPs wish to work with small numbers
of international students, who in the role of apprentices, can be taught how to use
the language while being instilled with cultural refinement.
However, it has also been seen throughout this book that the primary functions of
TEAPs are being reshaped inside neoliberal universities. One metaphor for describ-
ing these changes could be framed as ‘TEAP as SPU Factory Worker’. Although
TEAPs wish to work with small numbers of students as ‘linguacultural artisans’,
Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs committed to mass production and corporate values
require TEAPs to process large numbers of learners rather than to cultivate a few:
Informant: I had a meeting with them at the start, I said, I said, how many students can
EAP handle before we need to hire someone else? The number that was given to me, was
fifteen students for two EAP instructors. And I said, fifteen? Fifteen? And they said, well yes
the levels are just so completely different…and we do place them at levels but there are
things you can teach to all levels…and that, you, you can’t find one level, you can’t, you
know, if you have a program that has a hundred and fifty students, I think even within those
divisions of all those things, you’re still going to have a range… You have a range in every
classroom and you can’t….that’s just what happens.
GH: Yeah.
Informant: (growing visibly angry as he relives the memory): …but they sat there, and they
were resisting, and basically any more than fifteen would be a challenge…and I said, Huh?
I said, I disagree, and I said, here’s the train…and this is the direction it’s going. I think we
can handle 40, per semester, easily. And we’ll get to that point and no changes will be
moved, will be made, until we reach 41 per semester. And, you’re either on the northbound
train or you’re not. Basically, so…
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …well, it was a little hard, but, you know…I, I, I dealt, you know, they’re telling
me (incredulously) fifteen… (Interview, November 20, 2005).
TEAPs who attempt to continue working as artisans in such conditions will face
burnout, which was an underlying theme in this group interview excerpt:
Informant 1: I apologize for being really kind of grumpy about the whole thing…I don’t
know. It just felt a bit too much this year, but not just here, there’s lots of things going on as
well and I just felt it was too much at the same time.
GH: What was too much for you on this?
Informant 2: Fifteen students for a start.
Informant 1: Fifteen students is a big …
Informant 2: …Yeah, it’s a lot.
Informant 1: It’s a lot yeah, and a huge hike in the amount of paperwork.
Informant 2: You had five last year.
Informant 1: I was very lucky last year.
GH: Oh you had five last year?
Informant 1: I started with nine but four ran away!
<Laughter>
They did, physically!
<Laughter>
But it was just … the lack of down-time was my problem I think. I just, I couldn’t relax. The
weekend just wasn’t relaxing time. I’ve not been … it’s the kind of looking at the email…
[correcting] things wrong, looking at lecture summaries, going through all their details,
fifteen students, fifteen summaries, every week.
Informant 2: I think the fact you had fifteen students is a big impact on that. I had ten this
year, so I think that obvious makes a huge … that’s 50 % more, I feel like I can imagine if
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
149
I had 50 % more I’d have been feeling just like you, like really hacked off really, just yeah,
‘cause you must … everything’s 50 % more, at least, if not more, ‘cause you’re sort of tired
by the time you’ve done the first ten.
Informant 1: I mean I can’t complain since I did have a really easy time last year with just
the five students and it was great, I could give them as much time as they needed and they
did really well for it. And I gave the students this year as much as I gave them last year…
Because I felt that if I gave them any less then I was doing them a disservice because they
needed the help and I wanted them to pass so there’s —
Informant 2: Yeah.
Informant 1: So I just felt that was … I felt I needed to give them much, much more…
Informant 2: …And so you’re exhausted…
Informant 1: …And psychologically it was tiring…
GH: …Physically it was tiring…
Informant 1: (nodding in agreement) Mmm! (Interview, September 15, 2008).
Two more metaphors, ‘TEAP as Language Service Technician’ and ‘TEAP as
Administrative Utility Staff’, also help to unpack the manner in which Teachers of
EAP are being Molded & Shaped in neoliberal universities. Others who have stud-
ied these trends have used similar metaphors. For example, Varghese et al. (2005,
p. 22) state that ‘[a]mong many applied linguists, for a long time language teachers
were seen as technicians who needed merely to ‘apply’ the right methodology in
order for the learners to acquire the target language’. Combining this oft-men-
tioned expectation among administrative informants of TEAPs needing to service
international students forms the notion of a Language Service Technician. Many
informants, such as this BLEAP in a Mass Provider HEI, resonated with this
imagery:
GH: what I think I’m hearing from all of the different things that are being said, from those
who aren’t language teachers who are making decisions about what EAP is or what EAP is
or what…whatever…is that they see EAP teachers as a type of language service technician.
What would you say about that? That they fix broken language. The students come in and
they fix the broken language, and they service the university in that…in that aspect. To get
the…those students into the system. And in a sense that they need to assure, quality assur-
ance, that this student will be able to function in class, not be affected in any way. If there
are any problems, then they’ll receive complaints from faculty mostly. The student’s not
working, you know, fix the English.
(Long pause as Informant thinks)
I’m beginning to think…think about it in those terms. At least the way they’re viewed as
service technicians, language service technicians. What would you…
Informant: (cutting in suddenly and with vigor) I…I’ve not thought about it in those terms,
but they’re apt, you know. EAP exists in many countries that you’re seeing, in a place that
it is…it is the operative program that brings students to a competency level that allows them
to interact with native students…it becomes sort of a, you know, it’s…it’s a remedial pro-
gram that brings them to a competency level. The EAP is the same place, and those faculty
either are part of faculty or they are service technicians that are, you know, delivering skill
in the most efficient manner that they can (Interview, November 6, 2008).
TEAPs as Language Service Technicians relates in part to the view that this
BLEAP and other Command & Control have of it being a form of talent develop-
ment. Tutors offer remedial lessons for students who, due to massification, have
been allowed in the HEI but who cannot keep up academically. Gone is the shop
floor of the craftsperson’s hut. TEAPs must now process large numbers of students
6.5 Consequences of Molding & Shaping for Tertiary EAP
150
as SPU Service Technicians. TEAPs prepare students for HEI processing and fix
any broken language along the way. This concept was readily accepted by other
BLEAPs interviewed, as in the following example:
GH: It seems that a number of administrators at the universities that I’ve been at seem to,
they don’t say this right out, but they seem to view EAP teachers as a type of service techni-
cian. That their task is to maintain active classes, fix broken language and ensure quality
by ensuring that the product, that is the student, is not defective or…a term I hear at the
University of Wensleydale a lot, ‘high maintenance’.
Informant: (Laughs heartily) Absolutely, yes (Interview, October 31, 2008).
The role of language service entails more than fixing broken language or prepar-
ing students for passing the TOEFL and IELTS tests. Because administrative man-
agement views HE as part of the service sector, language technicians are expected
to serve students in ways that exceeds traditional language instruction. In a number
of locations studied, TEAPs were often expected to devote time outside of class in
helping students to access the surrounding society and gain entry into the social
aspects of their academic institutions.
TEAPs are also expected to provide continuous language support, usually by
providing ‘cultural experiences’ and other interesting activities outside of class as
utility staff. A Command & Control informant explains:
Informant: they’re administrative staff. There’s no tenure, there’s no, uh, faculty rank.
GH: Hmm, mmm.
Informant: Um, but they do have, and uh, perhaps one of the other reasons why it’s a staff
position, is because there is more to the EAP position than just, ‘oh, I’ll meet these students
from nine to eleven…’
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …uh, no, they’re going to have to organize, need to organize other activities, and
be with them in the afternoon at times to do things with them, to help, them, uh, learn English,
use English and…provide some cultural, experiences…that, see…would be so, totally differ-
ent from the mission of a, of a regular faculty member (Interview, November 29, 2005).
This is necessary; EAP units in neoliberal HEIs will find themselves in peril if
they do not fulfill their role as, as one administrative manager put it, ‘an essential
service office’. Special servicing outside that of classroom instruction is one of the
first signs that the fundamental understanding of the TEAPs’ identity has been
reshaped. ‘Serving the university’, that is, Command & Control, entails tasks that
were previously those of frontline administration. TEAPs will also find their work-
day increasingly occupied with BLEAP-led impact-making initiatives, recruitment
and running schoolstay programs that focus on ‘experiences’ as a means of lan-
guage acquisition. This last point is of special importance to Japanese EAP, where
universities are striving to send more undergraduates abroad on schoolstay pro-
grams. But for the efforts to succeed, TEAPs must be ‘reoriented’:
Informant: So that’s it. The idea of the program, the goals of the program, the outcome
of the first time we did it, and some ideas of what goes into the program to make it
experiential learning and to make opportunities for getting along together well, koryu
[interpersonal exchange], into real opportunities for getting along together well.
GH: The place still has a lot of EAP teachers at the university who this sort of experiential
learning seems to threaten their professional identity as a language teacher. And you
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
151
started it out with, ‘I’m a language teacher, but let me sell you this.’Talk about the rami-
fications of experiential learning on language teacher identity, because most of the presen-
tations for overseas programs deal with the teachers talking about how can they improve
the language proficiency of their learners.
Informant: I hope you didn’t miss the punch that came later. It wasn’t sold as a language
program, it wasn’t intended as a language program, but their language improved won-
derfully. What they need to do is to say that to everybody on campus and believe me, I
haven’t stopped since February.
GH: But still, about language teacher identity, who still would see themselves, they would
say often, ‘Look, I’m not a tour guide conductor; I’m a language teacher. I want their lan-
guage to improve.’And this is very different from what many language teachers are accus-
tomed to doing. How do you respond to that, and what would you say about the issue of
language teacher identity in terms of professional, with regard to this?
Informant: I agree. Most of my colleagues are language teachers. That’s their professional
identity, and they need a reorientation before they can become a facilitator for a program like
this. Now the reorientation may be shorter than the training of a language teacher, but it’s
every bit as rigorous. Those reorientation programs will begin on our campus early next
year (Informant Presentation Q&A, November 2, 2008).
Reorientation can cause considerable dissonance for TEAPs, who may view
such efforts as an intrusion into their minds and deep-seated values. If managed
compassionately, however, reorientation can help existing TEAPs either to come to
terms with, or choose to leave, the ‘brave new world’ of neoliberalized Higher
Education. Without reorientation, most of the TEAPs will hold firmly to notions of
serving (not servicing) students, and of helping them to acquire the language instead
of simply focusing on acquiring experiences. Becoming Administrative Utility Staff
means that TEAPs should augment (an administrative word that is synonymous
with ‘enhance’) their instruction with the types of experiences and skills valued by
Command & Control. This is seen as providing what one informant called a ‘value-
added’ education. TEAPs actively seeking out such opportunities are valued, as this
not only services the students in a practical way, but by developing talents for
success, it also fosters educational innovation. International students who study
with such teachers, it is believed, will then be able to service the university by
providing domestic students with intercultural experiences and insights that may be
useful later for international business.
6.5.3 Colonial Transformation
The pressure to mold and shape TEAPs into those who provide ‘educational experi-
ences’ in addition to language instruction is not only a feature of EAP Units in
neoliberal universities. It is also part of an overarching effort to expand the Third
Space further into areas once seen as the domain of educators. An Upwardly Mobile
BLEAPs explains:
Informant: The educational experience is probably…one now that is starting to, I think,
represent more of a seamless curriculum to where our peer education programs, and our
student, you know, our student development and leadership programs, and everything
6.5 Consequences of Molding & Shaping for Tertiary EAP
152
that Student Affairs is about the softer side of things…are starting to, move into the cur-
riculum more, and we are starting to see crossovers and other places…and so, I think it
becomes an educational experience, because it’s not just… traditional, classroom based
education…and then…
GH: Yeah.
Informant: …queued events…I think we’re starting to move to a thing where there’s meaningful
experiences being offered by other offices that aren’t part of academic affairs, that round up
their education and we’re starting to see that here…and I think, ‘educational experience’
sums it up fairly nicely. I think it is an education in general…obviously, but it’s a, it’s the
idea that…um, er… co-curricular activities are benefiting what they do in class…if we can,
you know, if we can augment their learning as a start, and then, you know, end up with
something that’s totally integrated later, I think that that’s a good thing. And I think that
people would be, I think that educators would be proud of that.
GH: Mm-hm.
Informant: …I don’t think that a lot of academics are really, you know, happy about…us.
But student affairs is doing a lot and I think they think that it’s nice. But I think it’s still the
old, holdouts that think, you know well…‘education is our job’–
GH: (cutting in) They’re jealous, do you think?
Informant: …there’s, there’s a piece of that, but I think that we try, you know, try to make
for students, an educational experience, a well-rounded educational experience. So what
they do in the [administrative support building] is just as important as what they do in
[the main academic classroom building] (Interview, November 20, 2005).
From the view of the holdouts in their academic bunkers, this is the neoliberalist’s
burden – a mission to modernize teaching spaces and professional identities in order
to reshape it according to their ideological worldview:
The colonisers of higher education have been seeking to change academic identities and
practices so as to reflect those of the colonisers. The consequence is that academic voices
are becoming divided across different cultures and languages. Many academics feel dis-
placed and divorced from their previous habitats and dislocated within the new and imposed
ones. These colonising forms of enterprise higher education reflect the market forces and
the quick fix stance of commerce and industry (Savin-Baden 2009).
In the words of another informant, who used to be a TEAP before moving into
an academic position, the phenomena underway in neoliberal universities is one of
‘Inland Empires’. Empire in the twenty-first century can no longer expand out-
ward and upward, so it goes sideways across society, and inward – into the minds,
hearts, and identities of the people who have been bought and subjugated.According
to this view, university managers are likened to colonial administrators. TEAPs are
the colonized subjects. International Students are the raw materials that are to be pro-
cessed by the colonized, who then channel these human resources to the colonizing
corporate powers outside the university:
Informant: universities are… are be… are becoming so consumed with the process of
earning money, and administering their activities, that we’re…we’re forgetting what we’re
supposed to be doing, and we’re doing something else, which is actually following the cor-
porate agenda, accelerating, deepening the channels of corporate…corporate life.
Deepening…further deepening and entrenching its channels, and everyone else imitating
them. Because these numerical targets that universities are having to fill, about getting
students into jobs, corrals students into corporate type organizations. the corporate chan-
nels of life…channels of corporate life are coming to condition university channels of thinking
and life. It should be the reverse.
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
153
GH: You spoke something… you spoke once about something called mental colonization.
Informant: That is a perfect example of the colonization of the mind, and the colonization
of people’s motivations and purposes. Another way of saying it is the tail wagging the dog.
The corporate agenda is colonizing the education and research agenda (Interview, April
29, 2007).
The irony is that such feelings of displacement, dislocation and mental control
are now common features in the professional lives of academics in the Arts and
Humanities – the same places that had only a few years earlier relegated their EAP
Units to administrative management. Sacrificing EAP to administrative control did
little to save them, for in doing so, they unwittingly established the precedent for
their own eventual colonization.
The most important covariance contributing to the colonization of TEAPs
was that of professional isolation. I found no evidence of a purposeful strategy of
isolation on the part of BLEAPs or Command & Control. It was more a case of
negligence, in that fostering collegiality, community and a sense of shared profes-
sional identity were simply no longer priorities. At many of the Mass Provider and
Sausage Maker HEIs, common room space for TEAPs or faculty were disused or
nonexistent. Some universities provided desks or chairs in copy rooms, but as
BLEAPs often frequented these spaces, TEAPs did not use them for sharing ideas
or for reflection. At one Japanese HEI, a request was made for the creation of such a
common room, but this resulted in an open space placed in the same room with
administration, and separated by only a row of potted office plants. Intentional or
not, all conversations could be monitored by administrative management. TEAPs
and faculty avoided the space, and it soon became a spot for Hunting & Gathering,
where third-party university vendors could sell their wares and faculty could meet
with administration on ways to recruit students.
While the covariant condition of isolation is unintentional, in neoliberal universi-
ties, it is nevertheless useful: It prevents uprisings and collective action from within
the organization. For TEAPs, as voiceless colonial subjects, their lives are marked
by organizational invisibility, until that time when their colonial masters need their
workspaces or other meager resources. Instead of working together for the well-
being of the students, it becomes more a case of isolation that contributes to, as
one informant described, being ‘done to’:
Informant: Oh, yeah. There you… there you go. I do know that we are done TO.
GH: You’re DONE to?
Informant: DONE TO, right, exactly.
GH: What does that mean?
Informant: That means that decisions are made about us without our input.
GH: Hmm.
Informant: Yeah. For the most part, I feel like, okay, we go on, day to day, doing our… our
job, and what we are supposed to do, and most… for the most part, people don’t pay much
attention to us. But every now and then, someone says, ‘Oh, hey, we need to have that room,
or we need to have a computer lab. We need to do something.’You know?
GH: Mm-hmm.
Informant: ‘And let’s just make this change, and oh, let’s see, oh, the EAP program is using
that room. Oh, that’s okay, we’ll just take it.’
GH: And they can.
6.5 Consequences of Molding & Shaping for Tertiary EAP
154
Informant: And they can, and they do. (Interview, November 5, 2008).
The professional isolation, lack of collegiality, and being ‘done to’ puts many
TEAPs on the trajectory of feeling as if they do not truly belong to the university – of
it always being a case of someone ‘out there’, but never a case of it being ‘us’
(Cornfield and Pollock 2005, p. 121). The TEAPs become ‘BLEAPified’ – an
uncomfortable blending of who they were and who they are becoming as they find
their place in the university becoming increasingly ambiguous:
Informant: You know, I don’t think the fact that I’m on what kind of contract bothers me as
much as just the lack of professional ties or recognition, you know. So you know, you’re
divided into two groups on campus. You’re staff or you’re faculty. So faculty gets certain
benefits, certain things, and staff don’t, and even though you’re professional staff.
GH: Is that what they call you, professional staff?
Informant: Yeah, we’re professional staff, so we get more vacation days than the custodial
help, for example, the different type of that, but if you’re truly a professional staff, they also
get comp time. They get, you know, travel allowance. They’re… they have a whole different
lifestyle, but we have really the lifestyle of a teacher…so we’re kind…we’re stuck in the
middle, you know. So we go to a staff dinner, and the people are like, ‘Why are you here?
You’re a teacher?’
GH: And you go to the faculty thing, if you ever get…
Informant: (cutting in) We’re not allowed to go to the faculty thing (Interview, November
6, 2008).
Bereft of community in neoliberal universities, TEAPs find that the BLEAP is
often the only conduit to someplace outside the Third Space. They become small
satellites orbiting a center they may find difficult either to respect or trust, but
eventually, they are absorbed into the organizational identity of the BLEAP. They
become fully assimilated within the heart of the machine. This transformation,
once complete, makes TEAPs more pliable to becoming utility staff, SPU workers,
language technicians, or any other future role that might be needed in order to
deliver educational experiences to the end users.
6.6 Chapter Summary
This chapter has studied some of the key properties that support Command &
Control efforts at neoliberal HEIs to Mold & Shape from on High. This requires
vision-casting that defines the scope of the big picture for the HEI. It also calls for
maintaining control through a wide variety of strategies, from in-group construction
to the maintenance of protective green zones, and in making an innovative, often
entrepreneurial impact on campus. Tertiary EAP in neoliberal HEIs is significantly
affected by these dynamics, since its very existence in organization often relies
upon the patronage of administrative power. Professional identities are reshaped to
meet the needs of administrative initiatives, as pedagogy is remolded to augment
traditional language teaching with educational experiences. In addition, because of
the unyielding pressures of massification, by necessity the concepts of automated
6 Molding and Shaping from on High
155
manufacturing processes are being applied to Tertiary-level EAP Units in order to
cope with increasing student numbers and to improve pedagogy. TEAPs cease to be
linguacultural artisans and are colonized into becoming pedagogic factory workers.
In corporate universities, they are widely treated as language service technicians
and/or administrative utility staff.
In such an environment, BLEAPs will seek various strategies to survive. Some
will cooperate in the process of Molding & Shaping, lest they themselves are
remolded and reshaped. Sinking BLEAPs will certainly sympathize with the com-
plaints of TEAPs and other academics about the changes brought about by HEI
management carrying out the will of political and business elites. However, lament-
ing with those who represent what is seen as outmoded ways of construing HE
eventually contributes to their professional demise. The challenge for Transactional
BLEAPs will be to instill a sense of community, acceptance and recognition for
efforts of those teaching in EAP units. Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs may seek to
adopt a more crafty approach by hiding or downplaying their ambitions to enter
Command & Control so as not to alienate themselves from their units. TEAPs may
find encouragement in working with Transactional BLEAPs in a new spirit of
purpose and trust. For TEAPs working with Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs, there is
power in the knowledge that their BLEAP’s success depends as much upon them as
it does about the BLEAP’s efforts to make an impact on campus.
6.6 Chapter Summary
157
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2_7
Chapter 7
Mobbing, Struggling, and Managing:
A Story of Professional Disarticulation
7.1 Introduction
It was 2013, nearly 10 years after that fateful trip to Polaris. I was back. Time had
moved on. People had moved on. Things had changed, but not in ways that had been
planned or expected. Yet there was time enough for a last, parting glance, before I
too moved on to a new post at a different university.
New Third Space organizations had been created on campus. There was a shiny
new business incubator that offered educational opportunities and real world experi-
ences for students as they helped entrepreneurs to develop profitable enterprises. An
academy had been established to Hunt and Gather talented, energetic high school
student students, not only from within the State, but also from further afield in India
and China.
The TEAPs had only recently left the confines of their academic bunker. In the
end, they had survived due to a change in presidents. The new president arrived, the
old guard was soon sent packing, and a new In-Group was installed. Within time,
the EAP Unit started to be weighed by different standards. Bereft of patrons, it
shifted from university embassy to college consulate, and the emphasis of Command
& Control moved from international concerns to those of local and regional needs.
The EAP Unit was measured more for student flows than for diversity, since this
need was being satisfied by newer third space organizations. The NUGIS schoolstay
program had been taken to the next level; it had become one of the EAP Unit’s
major resource streams, and recruiters from abroad were insuring that additional
students further increased the flow. In terms of measurement, this was sufficient.
Within the greater scheme of things, however, EAP had moved further in the back-
ground of the new big picture to become a provider of resource enhancements.
Within the new political climate, the BLEAP, once Upwardly Mobile, had shifted
to a Transactional approach. As the BLEAP found joy in pursuits outside the
university, the TEAPs went back to teaching EAP according to their linguacultural
158
beliefs and pedagogic convictions. In the end, the attempt to mold and shape these
TEAPs into language service technicians had failed. They had won, but at a great
cost: Not all had kept their jobs during their bunkered resistance, and the growing
flow of students had cut deep troughs of exhaustion on their faces. Keeping up
without burning out was a constant challenge. Yet from their words and actions, it
seemed clear that they continued to teach and to serve out of a deep sense of purpose
and calling. Even after nearly a decade of neoliberal policies and initiatives that had
come down from on high, their vocational identities had remained intact.
7.2 Professional Disarticulation
In the jump from TEAP to BLEAP, everything changes. While before the focus may
have been on helping international students to function linguistically in the univer-
sity system, improving one’s craft as a teacher, or researching some aspect of the
EAP classroom. After becoming a BLEAP in a neoliberal university, time becomes
increasingly dedicated to hunting, gathering, weighing, measuring, molding, and
shaping for the university – that is – for the patrons of the EAP Unit. Even when
they are teaching in class or conducting research, the social processes described in
this theory will influence their daily actions and decisions. They are no longer just
teachers, but neither are they quite the same as administrators. Even if they aspire to
be scholars, with a growing list of demands coming down from on high, scholarly
pursuits get pushed to the periphery.
The manner in which BLEAPs respond to the realization of being ‘no longer’yet
‘not quite’ decides whether they begin either a Sinking, Transactional, or Upwardly
Mobile trajectory. Underwriting this journey is the core category and core pro-
cesses. I will now consider these, and also discuss some of the contributions and the
implications this critical grounded theory has for Tertiary EAP and for others who
are experiencing the trepidations of neoliberalization.
ThecorecategoryofthistheoryisframedintermsofProfessionalDisarticulation.
This is a process in which people become increasingly dislocated from their
vocational identities as a result of organizational dynamics that have both blurred
traditional boundaries and created an atmosphere of instability. It encapsulates the
steady process by which one begins to feel as if they have been forcibly pulled out
of the joints of their professional calling. The realization that their specialized
roles are no longer recognized as valuable by the organization leaves them feeling
suspended and powerless. Their job title may stay the same, but emotional disen-
gagement grows as their roles and duties are progressively stripped out and changed
from within, such as in the case of Tertiary EAP’s transformation to a student
recruitment and service provider for neoliberal universities.
ProfessionalDisarticulationhasinternalandexternalstages.InternaltoProfessional
Disarticulation is that of Soft Mobbing, a process I have modified from an ethno-
graphic study of managerial practices in Northern Italy by Indiana University’s Noelle
Molé (2012). Mobbing as an English loanword first appeared in Italy soon after the
7 Mobbing, Struggling, and Managing: A Story of Professional Disarticulation
159
Berlusconi government’s implementation of neoliberal labor policies. It refers to
abusive treatment from management, such as long-term estrangement, constant
tracking and surveillance, public shaming, the sudden loss of one’s workspace, or
reassignment to tasks for which the employee has not been adequately trained. Under
this barrage of maltreatment, managers hope that the full-time workers’ will resign,
which would then allow them to hire cheaper replacements on short-term contracts.
Molé’s study details what I would term as Hard Mobbing, in that it is an aggres-
sive and premeditated attack on the workers’ well-being. The experience of TEAPs
and BLEAPs in neoliberal universities is far subtler. Instead of intentional harass-
ment, Soft Mobbing consists of an insouciant attitude towards EAP Units, which is
accompanied by the slow and steady accretion of unpleasant experiences that can
take BLEAPs and TEAPs by surprise in the middle of what would have normally
been a good day. It is that oft-handed remark by an administrator in the hallway, that
memo which blithely creates major disruptions for the EAP Unit, or that sudden
reassignment to a dark and disused classroom that tells TEAPs and BLEAPs that
their contribution to the university has been ignored, devalued, or taken for granted.
Soft Mobbing promotes a precarious fear of loss. For TEAPs, the fear is that, at
any time, they could, to use the words of an earlier informant, be ‘done to’ – that
someone could snatch away something they have cherished, be it a certain space,
teaching resource, scheduled time, budgeted item, or their job. BLEAPs also deal
with such fears, but because of their blended professional identities, they also tend
to fear something that frequently emerged from the words and actions of Command
& Control: They were deathly afraid of losing control.
BLEAPs usually experience a few cycles of Soft Mobbing before taking action.
It is then that they proceed to the external stage of Professional Disarticulation.
Instead of working harder at teaching students or producing publishable research,
they engage in something for which they had never been trained as language teachers:
Struggling to Manage and Learning to Lead (Fig. 7.1).
This visible aspect contextualizes and links to all of the other processes and
categories described in this theory. Few BLEAPs begin with access to a mentor, and
Upwardly
Mobile
Sinking
Transactional
creates the
impetus for
Struggling to
Manage and
Learning to Lead
Failing to Manage
and Struggling to
Lead
Managing the
Struggle but
Failing to Lead
Leading Others to
Succeed in Managing
the Struggle
Internal
Stage
External
Stage
Soft Mobbing
Fig. 7.1 Stages and trajectories of professional disarticulation
7.2 Professional Disarticulation
160
without positional power, they embark on a solitary struggle against a steep and often
unforgiving learning curve. Those who fail to manage the SPU or who leave TEAPs
to their own devices enter the Sinking BLEAP trajectory. Others learn to deal with
the daily maintenance of their SPUs in order to engage in the more important tasks
of Hunting & Gathering, Weighing & Measuring, and Molding & Shaping. Yet
because they operate in an openly aspirational and Upwardly Mobile manner, they
tend to manage the struggle while failing to inspire TEAPs. In time this inevitably
leads to various forms of coercion. Still others take a transactional approach by
treating life in neoliberal universities as a game to be played. Those who are suc-
cessful will motivate Command & Control and TEAPs into managing their own
struggle, thereby letting them get on with the task of accomplishing their own agendas
in the Third Space. If they can maintain balance without falling into the excesses to
which they are prone, Transactional BLEAPs can even succeed in carving out a
small microclimate where they can thrive in Third Space. Regardless of the strategic
trajectory, though, difficulties will occur for BLEAPs if they seek to manage TEAPs
and lead processes. Progress towards something better seems to lie in managing
processes and learning to lead TEAPs, a point to which I will return shortly.
7.3 Potential Contributions
Few sociological theories are all encompassing. It is within their nature to highlight
only certain activities and roles in organizations and societies. Situated in the global
neoliberalization of Higher Education, this theory has centered primarily upon
Blended Professionals in English for Academic Purpose units, seeing them as the
conduit for issues affecting EAP in neoliberal universities. It makes a contribution
first and foremost to the lives of TEAPs and BLEAPs as they try to make sense of
their professional lives in the Third Space.
In terms of the substantive level of Tertiary EAP in neoliberal universities, this
critical grounded theory has fit, grab, and relevance (Glaser and Strauss 1967/1999).
Through a disciplined, extensive, and systematic study of the words and actions of
nearly 100 informants in three different countries at 18 universities, this theory
sheds light on the degree to which English for Academic Purposes is currently
being molded and shaped around the world. TEAPs and BLEAPs alike will not only
better understand their expected role in the neoliberal university, but this theory will
allow many to take greater control over the direction of their trajectories. The new
terminology and conceptual framework for understanding, reshaping, and better
leveraging their pivotal positions within the Third Space, can give them greater
insight into how to create the best possible teaching environment.
TEAPs will be sensitized to some of the wider issues driving the organizational
changes taking place in their units. This will allow them to analyze the decisions of
their BLEAPs, and to consider the implications of these decisions both for themselves
and their learners. They will be able to recognize, for example, when they are being
kettled, and will be able to identify attempts at resource leeching. For Upwardly
7 Mobbing, Struggling, and Managing: A Story of Professional Disarticulation
161
Mobile TEAPs seeking to leave the Center of Praxis, this theory reveals key conditions,
strategies, processes and contingencies that can help them make informed choices as
they climb the perilous slopes of the Third Spaces of their HEIs. For example,
Upwardly Mobile TEAPs often seek to improve their skills, knowledge and qualifi-
cations by obtaining an MA in Applied Linguistics or TEFL/TESL. Many will also
give research publications at conferences, network with potential employers, and
publish impressive numbers of research papers, all in an effort to land a stable
university teaching post. While such activities would have been sufficient even a few
years ago, this theory suggests that, given the speed to which changes are spreading
to all but the most unassailable sections of Ivory Tower HEIs, TEAPs seeking to
become BLEAPs need to supplement any knowledge gained from their MA with the
canny insight of an MBA.
Sinking BLEAPs, especially those who cannot move to another HEI to make a
fresh start, can use this theory to help in deciding the degree to which they will
accept their role in neoliberal universities. By prospecting for resources, engaging
in investment servicing, furthering resource partnerships, and by carefully weighing
the degree to which they will engage in resource leeching and milking strategies,
Sinking BLEAPs can ‘reboot’ their careers. They should strengthen their alliances
with students by ensuring that they are satisfied with their educational experience.
Sinking BLEAPs can begin advocating for their TEAPs in order for them to be
weighed favorably by Command & Control. Students and TEAPs can in turn help
to rehabilitate the image of the Sinking BLEAPs through positive assessment and a
lack of strife. The trust built from this stage will lessen resistance to later forms of
Weighing & Measuring, such as using prestigious tests or undergoing external
evaluations. Sinking BLEAPs can begin looking outside themselves to learn more
about the Big Picture view of potential patrons, and to discover aspects that resonate
with their own beliefs. Sinking BLEAPs can then target potential areas for making
what will be seen as innovative impacts. As a result, over time they should be able
to form collaborative groups, access powerful green zones, and eventually begin to
control new processes. Sinking BLEAPs will need to spend time reorienting TEAPs
to the new mission of the HEI, which will be easier, as it will have become more
intertwined with their own beliefs.
Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs will not need to struggle to find some aspect of
Command & Control’s Big Picture in which to believe, and most learn to be proficient
in the supporting social processes described in this book. However, this theory
highlights the irony that within their raw ambition and frequent inability to hide it
lies the instrument of their professional demise. Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs will
need to see TEAPs and international students neither as tools for getting ahead nor
as obstacles to overcome, but more as the people that they are. This may be easier
said than done for Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs prone to testosterone-fueled strate-
gies such as Commando Assessment, and for those who have developed an overde-
pendence on Cash Cow Milking or Resource Leeching. Part of the way that
Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs might rehabilitate themselves in the eyes of TEAPs and
students is by finding aspects of their “Little Picture” that complements the Big
Picture of Command & Control. If the picture of the HEI is truly as big as some
7.3 Potential Contributions
162
informants have claimed it to be, there must be a space where TEAPs and international
students can fit in a way that affirms their talents and preferred contributions. This
is vital, because unless they frequently move to other HEIs, as long as they are
openly ambitious, Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs will usually not gain the prize that
they seek: TEAPs will resist one who they see as the attack dog of a moneyed
corporate elite, and will gather international students as allies in a bunkered institu-
tional insurgency.Although Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs might quell such rebellions,
few realize that their ambition is as threatening to Command & Control as it is to
TEAPs. The doors to Command & Control open wide for those who fit the image
organizational elites have of themselves – as one who wields power wisely. However,
the doors to the halls of power quickly close to those who might become rivals.
Attack dogs are useful, but only on the perimeter of the Green Zone.
Hyland and Hamp-Lyons (2002, p. 10) have observed that ‘EAP teachers are fre-
quently employed as vulnerable, short-term instructors in marginalized “service units”
and ways of facilitating change in such environments remain to be explored’. This
theory suggests that Sinking BLEAPs and Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs could help to
facilitate environmental change by adopting some of the attitudes and approaches of
the Transactional BLEAP. This will afford greater stability and job satisfaction for the
Sinking BLEAP, and by fostering greater cooperation among TEAPs and interna-
tional students, Upwardly Mobile BLEAPs stand a better chance of gaining the pro-
motion they crave.Transactional BLEAPs tend to keep the social processes of Hunting
& Gathering, Weighing & Measuring, and Molding & Shaping in better balance.
However, maintaining this equilibrium tends to be far more stressful than they allow
others to know. Because Transactional BLEAPs tend to be solitary creatures, this
isolation and lack of accountability can lead to all manner of personal problems that
will eventually affect their career. Although it is against their nature, Transactional
BLEAPs need to seek community and accept accountability with people they can
trust. In this way, they can become less transactional and more interactional.
Within the many clashes between cynically bunkered TEAPs and emotionally
unintelligent managers from Command & Control, all BLEAPs tend to get caught in
the middle. Powley (2009) and Bezzina (2000) state that professional survival for those
in such situations is through building relationships between members of different fac-
tions. BLEAPs should take advantage of their position in the third spaces of their HEIs
by mediating peace treaties that offer opportunities for incremental change, flexibility,
and trust building between all sides. BLEAPs can use the ambiguity of their third
spaces to find a third way – one which seeks balance and one which is more humane.
The third way requires stepping back from performativity, of not simply going through
the motions, but instead, to go ‘through the emotions’(Beatty 2007, p. 335):
When teachers and leaders connect with each other in equal humility about issues of power
and emotion, the barriers in their relationships can begin to disappear, as healing of old
wounds and recovery from old patterns of interrelating from different positions within the
hierarchy begins (Beatty 2007, p. 334).
Not doing so results in ‘the reinforcing spiral effect, [in] that leaders, even with
the best intentions, get wounded and become threatened, and thereby become threat-
ening and wounding themselves’(Beatty 2007, p. 335). For neoliberal universities to
7 Mobbing, Struggling, and Managing: A Story of Professional Disarticulation
163
make the shift towards greater proactivity, there must be greater inclusion of our
emotions and a move away from the overly rational mentality that has resulted in the
reshaping of universities into knowledge factories. Such models deemphasize our
humanity in favor of exploiting our utility, and in the long run, they undermine the
foundations of a free and democratic society.
By identifying common practices and beliefs, upon which emotional and inter-
personal bridge-building can be built, BLEAPs can leverage the soft power of the
Third Space and lead in a compassionate manner to foster environments where
co-workers are respectful, efficient, and where they work as a team while also pro-
moting teacher autonomy and innovation. The Center of Praxis need not become a
closed institutional bunker. Instead, it can be a positive place, an environment where
people are motivated, hard-working, and enthusiastic about broadening their
participation while also crafting an excellent curriculum for EAP students. BLEAPs
would benefit in the long run by putting people first, and by striving to be more
caring, responsible, professional, and open to new ideas, they can eventually make
a lasting positive impact on the lives of others in their university communities.
By implication, this theory also suggests that utilizing Tertiary EAP as Student
Processing Units is ultimately unsustainable. Instead of a McDonaldized, ‘fast food
approach’ to EAP, where process management results in localized differences and
needs being treated as undesirable and inconvenient, such SPUs need to be decom-
missioned in order to open the way for something better. For example, again using
a restaurant metaphor, something similar to the Chinese Restaurant model might be
more advantageous. While Chinese restaurants differ in the ingredients they use
depending upon the country and clientele, they maintain their overarching identity
while continuing to deliver quality to customers. Applying this principle to EAP,
local pedagogic ‘ingredients’should be sought out and used. The implementation of
such an approach would result in uniquely ‘glocal’ EAP programs, which could
then be showcased by the university.
Other examples of third space solutions among HE educators can be seen in the
work of groups such as the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) move-
ment, which has practitioners in the US and Europe (Hutchings and Shulman 1999;
Shulman 2000; Trigwell et al. 2000). SoTL workshops create spaces in which edu-
cators, including a number of TEAPs, seek to promulgate good pedagogic practices
and reframe Weighing & Measuring towards highly focused educational aims
(Fincher et al. 2000; Kreber 2006). The movement has been marginalized by
Command & Control, partly because it operates outside their locus of direct control,
which makes it a potential threat to their agenda (Schroeder 2007; Boshier 2009).
However, it is here that BLEAPs can yet again bridge the gap by communicating
how movements such as SoTL represent innovation, improve content delivery to
end users, focus on stakeholder needs, achieve excellence and create a positive,
inclusive teaching environment free of class-based recriminations.
Admittedly, not every Tertiary EAP unit can become the site of positive engage-
ment and principled change. Most will find the attainment of such goals to require
significant struggle. But I believe the need for BLEAPs to leverage the third space
as neutral ground between TEAPs and Command & Control will have even greater
7.3 Potential Contributions
164
urgency in the years to come. History is replete with examples of how groups of
disgruntled and disenfranchised workers become highly susceptible to industrial
action, and in time, to even more radical measures behavior. The tendency, once
things have reached this level, frequently gravitates towards the destructive. The
loss of community and collegiality within the slurry of conflict and recriminations
is something that HEI Command & Control members cannot afford, lest they
become ‘Sinking Elites’ in the eyes of their superiors, and are then replaced. In the
EAP context, BLEAPs can help. Through existing electronic networks and face-to-
face opportunities at EAP conferences, likeminded BLEAPs and TEAPs can
encourage each other to seek peaceful, transformative interaction with those in
other sectors of their HEIs while at the same time, work to provide learners with a
critical awareness about issues in their universities and societies at large (Pennycook
1997; Benesch 2001; Harwood and Hadley 2004).
7.4 Further Implications
This grounded theory has implications for the working lives of not only those in
Tertiary EAP in neoliberal universities, but also for those studying the effects of
neoliberalism within institutions charged with the care of the young, the infirm, and
the defenseless (e.g. Archer 2008; Barry 2010; Canaan and Wesley 2011; Brown
and Baker 2012; Wrench et al. 2012; Brentnall 2013). It would be interesting to
discover if roles similar to BLEAPs are emerging in hospitals, churches, hospices,
orphanages, and care homes. For other sectors of Higher Education, this theory has
implied that EAP Units act as excellent barometers for gauging the degree to which
a particular university has become neoliberalized. As indicators of organizational
climate change, EAP Units are useful for forecasting future conditions. The Third
Space is growing presence in neoliberal universities. Unless policies change, the
Third Space will eventually become the locus of the university, and traditional roles
will be pushed to the periphery, where they will atrophy. At some institutions, they
will die off completely.
This Critical Grounded Theory of Blended EAP Professionals in Neoliberal
Universities also has implications for future research. Quantitative investigations to
validate aspects of Hunting & Gathering, Weighing & Measuring or Molding &
Shaping would help to further delineate the range of this theory. Qualitative studies
investigating properties such as Resource Leeching, Kettling, Authoritarian
Deliberation, or the ramifications of using Mystery Customers/Students/Clients,
could be fruitful areas of research. Critical studies aimed at discovering how the
sociological processes in this theory are undertaken in other domains would extend
the usefulness of this theory beyond the substantive domain of Tertiary
EAP. Comparing the experience of TEAPs in neoliberal HEIs to that of craftspeople
in other professions, especially those who have become unwillingly involved in
mass production, might prove insightful.
7 Mobbing, Struggling, and Managing: A Story of Professional Disarticulation
165
Another area of interest implied by the critical aspects of this theory, drawing
from the concept of Foucault’s panopticon (1977, pp. 195–196), would be to
consider the effects of working in organizations marked by increasing levels of
authoritarian control and deliberation. Some of the enduring lessons of the contro-
versial Stanford Prison Experiment are that tightly-controlled, ‘total environ-
ments’ (Zimbardo et al. 2000, p. 202) such as jails, the military and organizations
with strong hierarchical Command & Control structures, easily become breeding
grounds for various forms of abuse. How do BLEAPs resemble and differ from
the prison guards of the Stanford Prison Experiment? In what way are Upwardly
Mobile BLEAPs like Zimbardo’s ‘bad guards’, those who enforce rules and pro-
cedures in order to both encourage fear and consolidate power? Are Transactional
BLEAPs akin to the ‘good guards’who, as Zimbardo, Maslach & Haney observed,
are the ones ‘who most kept the prisoners in line because the prisoners wanted
their approval and feared things would get worse if those good guards quit or ever
took a dislike to them’ (2000, p. 201). Do Transactional BLEAPs maintain
harmony and order among the economically and organizationally disempowered
TEAPs and socially imprisoned international students, thus averting ‘prison
uprisings’ in the form of industrial action, union formation, or the publically
embarrassing ‘slave revolts’ of student protests? Extending this theoretical meta-
phor, are Sinking BLEAPs secretly despised by Command & Control in the way
that corrupt guards are seen as those who have literally gone to the other side? In
effect, because of ongoing efforts to transform Tertiary EAP into ever efficient
Student Processing Units with measurable quality outcomes, are neoliberal
universities in the process of becoming the type of places that Morgan (1997,
p. 216) identified as Psychic Prisons?
On a level closer to the Center of Praxis, more attention could be given to disco-
vering the basic social processes of the International Student Experience, or on the
pedagogical strategies of those who are considered to be ‘good’ TEAPs and Tutors.
7.5 Final Thoughts
Graddol (2008) predicted that by the middle of the twenty-first century, far fewer
TEAPs will be needed, due to the work underway in many countries to introduce EAP
to primary school curricula. Certainly, growing numbers of international students
enteringAmerican and British HEIs without needing EAP instruction was an observed
trend at most of the HEIs that I visited. However, while TEAP postings are most cer-
tainly set for decline, (which will have implications for the plethora of MA TEFL/
TESL programs in upcoming decades), I nevertheless believe that the survival of EAP
in neoliberal HEIs is assured at least in the short term, not in spite of, but because most
units have been moved into administrative HE departments. Drawing sustenance from
administrative power, many Tertiary EAP Units will thrive as language service pro-
grams. They will be increasingly involved in the creation of entrepreneurial academic
talent, the recruitment and retention of international students, the fostering of service
7.5 Final Thoughts
166
learning opportunities and in seeking to satisfy students with enjoyable educational
experiences. Current MA TESOL programs may decide to recognize and incorporate
these issues in their curricula. Regardless, MA TESOL program designers
would benefit from adding the insights of this grounded theory, because while most
focus on pedagogic and theoretical issues related to language learning and acquisi-
tion, new TEAPs are often entering Tertiary EAP units unequipped for dealing
with the overarching concerns of their BLEAPs and the organizational patrons in
Command & Control.
In the long term, however, neoliberal policies for HE and EAP are untenable,
because while the desire for satisfying educational experiences is unlimited, the
ability of institutions to fulfill such cravings (and mistaking this as meeting student
needs) is severely limited. Such as system will eventually collapse upon itself, but
not before it does great damage to society. Therefore, critical questions that require
a response are whether EAP educators should be involved in such a mission? In
what Kezar (2004) has called a utilitarian approach, can TEAPs and BLEAPs work
together to encourage more people within Higher Education to take a hard look at
both communitarian and neoliberal approaches to Tertiary EAP, to recognize where
both have failed, and then work towards a better future? It is my hope that readers
will seek peaceful rapprochement between what is increasingly being construed as
end users, service providers and managerial stakeholders. By transcending these
labels, encouraging inclusivity and by creating innovative third spaces, it is my hope
that we can help foster a view of EAP that focuses less upon processing, and more
upon the positive personal development of students, TEAPs, academics and admin-
istrators. Tertiary EAP will continue to evolve in unexpected ways during this era of
HE neoliberalization, but by listening to each other and by truly working together,
we can strive to better cooperate in the adventure of educating future generations,
and hopefully, to lay the foundations for a better world.
7 Mobbing, Struggling, and Managing: A Story of Professional Disarticulation
167
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
G. Hadley, English for Academic Purposes in Neoliberal Universities: A Critical
Grounded Theory, Educational Linguistics 22, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10449-2
References
AAUP Oakland Newsletter August 21. (2009). Rochester: American Association of University
Professors Oakland Chapter. http://www.oaklandaaup.org/News082109.pdf. Accessed 2 June
2010.
Abrahams, F. (2009). Examining the preservice practicum experience of undergraduate music
education majors – Exploring connections and dispositions through multiple perspectives a
critical grounded theory. Journal of Music Teacher Education, 19(1), 80–92.
doi:10.1177/1057083709344044.
Albrecht, T. (2005). One barrier down, many yet to go: SEVIS fee reimbursement. International
Educator, 14(3), 60–63.
Alderson, A., & Nielsen, F. (2002). Globalization and the great U-turn: Income inequality trends
in 16 OECD countries. American Journal of Sociology, 107(5), 1244–1299.
Alexander, F. (2000). The changing face of accountability: Monitoring and assessing institutional
performance in higher education. Journal of Higher Education, 71(4), 411–431.
Allman, P. (2001). Revolutionary social transformation: Democratic hopes, political possibilities
and critical education. Westport: Bergin & Garvey.
Al-Sharideh, K., & Goe, R. (1998). Ethnic communities within the university: An examination of
factors influencing the personal adjustment of international students. Research in Higher
Education, 39(6), 699–725. doi:10.1023/a:1018714125581.
Altbach, P. (1989). Twisted roots: The western impact on Asian higher education. Higher
Education, 18(1), 9–29.
Altbach, P. (2004). Globalisation and the university: Myths and realities in an unequal world.
Tertiary Education and Management, 10(1), 3–25.
Altbach, P., Berdahl, R., & Gumport, P. (1999/2005). American higher education in the twenty-first
century: Social, political, and economic challenges (2nd ed.). Baltimore: Johns Hopkins
University Press.
Altbach, P., Berdahl, R., & Gumport, P. (2011). American higher education in the twenty-first cen-
tury: Social, political, and economic challenges. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Amano, I., & Poole, G. (2005). The Japanese university in crisis. Higher Education, 50(4),
685–711.
Anderson, G. (2006a). Assuring quality/resisting quality assurance: Academics’ responses
to ‘quality’ in some Australian universities. Quality in Higher Education, 12(2),
161–173.
Anderson, G. (2006b). Carving out time and space in the Managerial University. Journal of
Organizational Change Management, 19(5), 578–592.
Andrade, M. S. (2006). International students in English-speaking universities. Journal of Research
in International Education, 5(2), 131–154.
168
Annells, M. (1997). Grounded theory method, Part I: Within the five moments of qualitative
research. Nursing Inquiry, 4(2), 120–129.
Annual Report. (1993). London: British Council.
Anonymous. (2006). Tools of the trade for IE leaders. International Educator, 15(5), 12, Academic
Research Library.
Anyamele, S. (2005). Implementing quality management in the university: The role of leadership
in Finnish universities. Higher Education in Europe, 30(3), 357–369.
Archer, M. (1998). Introduction: Realism in the social sciences. In M. Archer, T. Lawson,
A. Collier, A. Norrie, & R. Bhaskar (Eds.), Critical realism: Essential readings (pp. 189–205).
London: Routledge.
Archer, L. (2008). The new neoliberal subjects?Young/er academics’constructions of professional
identity. Journal of Education Policy, 23(3), 265–285.
Arimoto, M. (1995). Japanese educational system improving ongoing practice in schools.
International Journal of Research, Policy and Practice, 6(4), 380–388.
Aronowitz, S. (2000). The knowledge factory. Boston: Beacon Press.
Ashwill, M. (2004). Developing intercultural competence for the masses. International Educator,
13(2), 16–25.
Asonuma, A. (2002). Finance reform in Japanese higher education. Higher Education, 43(1),
109–125.
Attwood, R. (2009, June 11). ‘Universities’ out as DIUS is succeeded by business ministry. Times
Higher Education. London: Guardian. http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk.ezproxyd.
bham.ac.uk/story.asp?storycode=406927. Accessed 14 Sept 2009.
Baber, L., & Linsday, B. (2006). Analytical reflections on access in english higher education:
Transnational lessons across the pond. Research in Comparative & International Education,
1(2), 146–155.
Backman, K., & Kyngas, H. (1999). Challenges of the grounded theory approach to a novice
researcher. Nursing and Health Sciences, 1, 147–153.
Baddeley, S., & James, K. (1987). Owl, fox, donkey or sheep: Political skills for managers.
Management Learning, 18(1), 3.
Bain, O., & Cummings, W. (2005). International students gone? International Educator, 14(2),
19–26.
Bain, O., Luu, D., & Green, M. (2006). Students on the move: The future of international students
in the United States (p. 15). Washington, DC: American Council on Education.
Ball, S. (2003). The teacher’s soul and the terrors of performativity. Journal of Education Policy,
18(2), 215–228.
Barcan, R. (1996, September–November). The body of the (humanities) academic, or, “what is an
academic”? Australian Humanities Review. http://www.australianhumanitiesreview.org/
archive/Issue-Sept-1996/barcan.html. Accessed 14 Sept 2010.
Barnett, R. (2000). Realizing the university in an age of supercomplexity. Buckingham: The
Society for Research into Higher Education & Open University Press.
Barnett, R. (2011). The coming of the ecological university. Oxford Review of Education, 37(4),
439–455.
Barrow, M. (1999). Quality-management systems and dramaturgical compliance. Quality in
Higher Education, 5(1), 27–36.
Barry, J. (2010). Gender, managerialism, and academe: Challenges and prospects. In B. Riegraf,
B. Aulenbacher, E. Kirsch-Auwärter, & U. Müller (Eds.), Gender change in academia:
Re-mapping the fields of work, knowledges, and politics from a gender perspective (pp. 75–86).
Wiesbaden: Springer.
Bauerlein, M. (2010, August 23). Keeping customers happy. New York Times. http://www.nytimes.
com/roomfordebate/2010/08/22/why-are-college-students-studying-less/college-students-as-
customers. Accessed 28 Aug 2010.
Beatty, B. (2007). Going through the emotions: Leadership that gets to the heart of school renewal.
Australian Journal of Education, 51(3), 328–340.
References
169
Belcher, D., & Hirvela, A. (2005). Writing the qualitative dissertation: What motivates and sustains
commitment to a fuzzy genre? Journal of English for Academic Purposes, 4(3), 187–205.
doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jeap.2004.07.010
Bender, T. (1997). Politics, intellect, and the American University, 1945–1995. Daedalus, 126(1),
1–38.
Benesch, S. (2001). Critical English for academic purposes: Theory, politics, and practice.
Mahwah: L. Erlbaum.
Berman, D. (1997, October 13). B Schools lend a helping hand. BusinessWeek Frontier. McGraw-Hill.
http://www.businessweek.com:/smallbiz/news/columns/97-41/e3548041.htm. Accessed 27 Dec
2008.
Beynon, H. (1988). Regulating research: Politics and decision making in industrial organizations. In
A. Bryman (Ed.), Doing research in organizations (pp. 21–33). London/NewYork: Routledge.
Bezzina, C. (2000). Educational leadership for twenty-first century Malta: Breaking the bonds of
dependency. International Journal of Educational Management, 14, 299–307.
doi:10.1108/09513540010378950.
Bhaskar, R. (1998). Philosophy and scientific realism. In M.Archer, T. Lawson,A. Collier,A. Norrie,
& R. Bhaskar (Eds.), Critical realism: Essential readings (pp. 16–47). London: Verson.
Biesta, G. (2004). Education, accountability, and the ethical demand: Can the democratic potential
of accountability be regained? Educational Theory, 54(3), 233–250.
Biggs, J. (2001). The reflective institution: Assuring and enhancing the quality of teaching and
learning. Higher Education, 41(3), 221–238.
Birks, M., & Mills, J. (2011). Grounded theory: A practical guide. Los Angeles: Sage.
Birmingham Integrated Quality Assurance and Enhancement System (BIQAES) Guidance. (2010).
Birmingham: Academic Services, University of Birmingham. http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/
Documents/university/quality/biqaes-full.pdf. Accessed 1 Feb 2014.
Birnbaum, R. (2000). Management fads in higher education: Where they come from, what they do,
why they fail. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Bishay, A. (1996). Teacher motivation and job satisfaction: A study employing the experience
sampling method. Journal of Undergraduate Sciences, 3(147–154).
Block, D. (2002). “McCommunication”: A problem in the frame for SLA. In D. Block &
D. Cameron (Eds.), Globalization and language teaching (pp. 117–133). London: Routledge.
Block, D., & Cameron, D. (2002). Introduction. In D. Block & D. Cameron (Eds.), Globalization
and language teaching (pp. 1–10). London: Routledge.
Bocock, J., Baston, L., Scott, P., & Smith, D. (2003). American influence on British higher educa-
tion: Science, technology, and the problem of university expansion, 1945–1963. Minerva, 41,
327–346.
Borg, S. (2004, February-March). Research in the lives of TESOL professionals. IATEFL Issues,
pp. 6–7.
Boshier, R. (2009). Why is the scholarship of teaching and learning such a hard sell? Higher
Education Research & Development, 28(1), 1–15.
Bosquet, M. (2008). How the university works: Higher education and the low-wage nation.
New York: New York University Press.
Bradley, C. (2012, March 1). Quality assurance at the University of Birmingham, UK: The
Birmingham integrated quality assurance and enhancement system. Paper presented at the
グ ローバル化時代における私立大学の質保証第2回 (Private university quality assurance
in the age of globalization, #2), Keynote address delivered at Hosei University Center of
Assessment.
Bremmer, D. (2007). Mission-driven. International Educator, 16(3), 40–47.
Brennan, J., & Shah, T. (2000). Quality assessment and institutional change: Experiences from 14
countries. Higher Education, 40(3), 331–349.
Brentnall, H. (2013, July 28). Neoliberalism and the commercialization of higher education. The
International. New York: The International, Inc. http://www.theinternational.org/articles/448-
neoliberalism-and-the-commercialization-o#. Accessed 25 Oct 2013.
References
170
Brierley, M., & Orlandini, A. (2010). CALL implementation strategies: A case study. Shinshu
University Department of Social Humanities Research Journal (信州大学人文社会科学研
究), 4, 135–151.
Brockbank, A., & McGill, I. (2007). Facilitating reflective learning in higher education (2nd ed.).
Berkshire: McGraw-Hill Publishing/Open University Press.
Brown, B., & Baker, S. (2012). Responsible citizens: Individuals, health, and policy under neolib-
eralism. http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&scope=site&db=nlebk&db=nlab
k&AN=470550
Brubacher, J., & Rudy, W. (1976/2008). Higher education in transition: A history of American
colleges and universities (4th ed.). London: Transaction Publishers.
Bruner, J. (1991). The narrative construction of reality. Critical Inquiry, 18(1), 1–21.
Bryant, N. (2009). Australia foreign student abuse proves expensive. BBC Newsnight.
Bryant, A., & Charmaz, K. (2007a). Grounded theory research: Methods and practices. In
A. Bryant & K. Charmaz (Eds.), The Sage handbook of grounded theory (pp. 1–28). London:
Sage.
Bryant, A., & Charmaz, K. (Eds.). (2007b). The sage handbook of grounded theory. London: Sage.
Bryce, J. (1897/2007). The American commonwealth (Vol. 3). New York: Cosimo.
Bryman, A. (1989). Research methods and organization studies (Contemporary social research
series, Vol. 20). London/Boston: Unwin Hyman.
Bryman, A. (2007). Effective leadership in higher education: A literature review. Studies in Higher
Education, 32(6), 693–710.
Buchanan, D., Boddy, D., & McCalman, J. (1988). Getting in, getting on, getting out and getting
back. In A. Bryman (Ed.), Doing research in organizations (pp. 53–67). London/New York:
Routledge.
Burawoy, M. (1991). The extended case method. In M. Burawoy, A. Burton, A. Ferguson, K. Fox,
J. Gamson, N. Gartrell, et al. (Eds.), Ethnography unbound: Power and resistance in the mod-
ern metropolis (pp. 271–287). Berkeley/Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Burden, P. (2010a). Creating confusion or creative evaluation? The use of student evaluation of
teaching surveys in Japanese tertiary education. Educational Assessment, Evaluation and
Accountability, 22(2), 97–117.
Burden, P. (2010b, November 20). The mechanization of teaching: Teachers’metaphors and evalu-
ation in Japanese tertiary education. Paper presented at the JALT2010 annual conference,
Nagoya, Japan.
Burden, P. (2010c). The mechanization of teaching: Teachers’ metaphors and evaluation in
Japanese tertiary education. The Language Teacher, 35(1), 9–16.
Burns, A. (1999). Collaborative action research for English language teachers. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Butler-Goto, Y., & Iino, M. (2005). Current Japanese reforms in English language education: The
2003 “action plan”. Language Policy, 4(1), 25–45.
Canaan, J., & Wesley, S. (Eds.). (2011). Structure and agency in the Neoliberal University. London:
Routledge.
Canagarajah, A. (1999). Resisting linguistic imperialism in English teaching. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Cannon, M., & Edmondson, A. (2005). Failing to learn and learning to fail (intelligently): How
great organizations put failure to work to innovate and improve. Long Range Planning, 38(3),
299–319.
Carr, W. (1998). What is an educational practice? In P. Hirst & P. White (Eds.), Philosophy of
education: Major themes in the analytic tradition (Vol. 1, pp. 167–183). London/New York:
Routledge.
Castree, N., & Sparke, M. (2000). Professional geography and the corporatization of the univer-
sity: Experiences, evaluations, and engagements. Antipode, 32(3), 222–229.
Chapple, K. (2014). A class act: Empathetic robot tutors in classroom to facilitate teaching and
learning. http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/news/latest/2013/02/18-Feb-13-A-class-act-
empathic-robot-tutors-in-classrooms-to-facilitate-teaching-and-learning.aspx
References
171
Charmaz, K. (2005). Grounded theory in the 21st century: Applications for advancing social
justice studies. In N. Denzin & Y. Lincoln (Eds.), Sage handbook of qualitative research (3rd
ed., pp. 507–536). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Charmaz, K. (2006). Constructing grounded theory. London: Sage.
Charmaz, K. (2011). Grounded theory methods in social justice research. In N. Denzin &Y. Lincoln
(Eds.), The Sage handbook of qualitative research (4th ed., pp. 359–380). LosAngeles/London:
Sage.
Chauvire, C. (2005). Peirce, popper, abduction, and the idea of a logic of discovery. Semiotica,
153(1), 209–221.
Chen, S., Yang, C., & Shiau, J. (2006). The application of balanced scorecard in the performance
evaluation of higher education. The TQM Magazine, 18(2), 190–205.
Clarke, A. (2003). Situational analyses: Grounded theory mapping after the postmodern turn.
Symbolic Interaction, 26(4), 553–576. doi:10.1525/si.2003.26.4.553.
Clarke, A. (2005). Situational analysis: Grounded theory after the postmodern turn. Thousand
Oaks: Sage.
Clayfield, M. (2009, July 29). College collapse puts visas at risk. The Australian. News Limited.
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/college-collapse-puts-visas-at-risk/story-0-
1225755726291. Accessed 5 Mar 2010.
Coate, E. (1993). The introduction of total quality management at Oregon State University. Higher
Education, 25(3), 303–320.
Cobb, P., & Bowers, J. (1999). Cognitive and situated learning perspectives in theory and practice.
Educational Researcher, 28(2), 4–15.
Cohen, A. M., & Kisker, C. B. (2009). The shaping of American higher education: Emergence and
growth of the contemporary system (2nd ed.). San Francisco: Wiley/Jossey-Bass.
Connell, C. (2007a). Concordia college leads with languages. International Educator, 16(3), 49–55.
Connell, C. (2007b). Freshmen abroad. International Educator, 16(1), 51–59.
Connell, C. (2007c). Georgia Tech’s well-engineered engagement with the world. International
Educator, 16(6), 38–46.
Connell, C. (2008). Elon University charts a new course. International Educator, 17(1), 42–49.
Considine, D. (1994). The loose cannon syndrome: University as business & students as custom-
ers. Australian Universities Review, 37(1), 36–40.
Corbin, J., & Holt, N. (2004). Grounded theory. In B. Somekh & K. Lewin (Eds.), Research meth-
ods in the social sciences (pp. 49–55). London: Sage.
Corbin, J., & Strauss, A. (2008). Basics of qualitative research: Techniques and procedures for
developing grounded theory (3rd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Cornfield, J., & Pollock, N. (2005). Putting the university online. In U. Dittler, H. Kahler, M. Kindt,
& C. Schwartz (Eds.), E-learning in Europe (pp. 111–126). Munster: Waxmann.
Cox, R. (1997). Democracy in hard times: Economic globalization and the limits to liberal democ-
racy. In A. McGrew (Ed.), The transformation of democracy?: Globalization and territorial
democracy (pp. 49–72). Cambridge/Malden: Polity Press/Blackwell Publishers.
Crookes, G. (2009). Values, philosophies and beliefs in TESOL. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Crosby, P. (1979). Quality is free: The art of making quality certain. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Currie, J. (1998). Globalization practices and the professoriate in Anglo-Pacific and North
American Universities. Comparative Education Review, 42(1), 15–29.
Currie, J. (2005). Globalisation’s impact on the professoriate in Anglo-American Universities.
In A. Welch (Ed.), The professoriate (pp. 21–34). Dordrecht: Springer.
Cushman, E. (1999). The public intellectual, service learning, and activist research. College
English, 61(3), 328–336.
Darrup-Boychuck, D. (2007). Apropos of e-recruitment. International Educator, 16(1), 50–51.
Deardorff, D., & Hunter, W. (2006). Educating global-ready graduates. International Educator,
15(3), 72–83.
Deem, R. (2001). Globalisation, new managerialism, academic capitalism and entrepreneurialism
in universities: Is the local dimension still important? Comparative Education, 37(1), 7–20.
References
172
Denzin, N., & Lincoln, Y. (1998a). Introduction to this volume. In N. Denzin & Y. Lincoln (Eds.),
Strategies of qualitative inquiry (pp. xi–xxii). London: Sage.
Denzin, N., & Lincoln, Y. (1998b). Introduction: Entering the field of qualitative research. In
N. Denzin & Y. Lincoln (Eds.), The landscape of qualitative research: Theories and issues
(pp. 1–34). London: Sage.
Denzin, N., & Lincoln,Y. (2000a). Introduction: The discipline and practice of qualitative research.
In N. Denzin & Y. Lincoln (Eds.), Handbook of qualitative research (2nd ed., pp. 1–29).
Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Denzin, N., & Lincoln,Y. (2000b). Part III: Strategies of inquiry. In N. Denzin &Y. Lincoln (Eds.),
Handbook of qualitative research (pp. 367–378). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Derewianka, B. (2000). Pedagogical grammars. In A. Burns (Ed.), Analysing English in a global
context: A reader (pp. 240–269). Florence: Routledge.
Desrochers, D., Lenihan, C., & Wellman, J. (2010). Trends in college spending 1998–2008.
Washington, DC: Delta Cost Project (with Sponsorship from the Lumina Foundation for
Education).
Dessoff, A. (2007). Branching out. International Educator, 16(2), 25–30.
Dey, I. (1999). Grounding grounded theory: Guidelines for qualitative inquiry. London:Academic.
Diner, S. (2010). Class stratification and the quest for prestige in American colleges and universi-
ties. In F. Lazin, M. Evans, & N. Jayaram (Eds.), Higher education and the equality of oppor-
tunities: Cross-national perspectives (pp. 61–68). Lanham: Lexington Books.
Divoky, J., & Taylor, R. (1996). Modeling change in curriculum: A total quality management per-
spective. Total Quality Management, 7(2), 173–182.
Dollar, D., & Kraay, A. (2002). Spreading the wealth. Foreign Affairs, 81(January/February),
120–133. http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/57626/david-dollar-and-aart-kraay/spreading-
the-wealth. Accessed 3 Oct 2014.
Donoghue, F. (2008). The last professors: The corporate university and the fate of the humanities.
New York: Fordham University Press.
Dornyei, Z. (2007). Research methods in applied linguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Douglas, A., & Douglas, J. (2006a). Campus spies? Using mystery students to evaluate university
performance. Educational Research, 48(1), 111–119.
Douglas, J., & Douglas, A. (2006b). Evaluating teaching quality. Quality in Higher Education,
12(1), 3–13.
Dovey, T. (2006). What purposes, specifically? Re-thinking purposes and specificity in the context
of the ‘new vocationalism’. English for Specific Purposes, 25(4), 387–402, doi:http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.esp.2005.10.002
Dudley-Evans, T., & St. John, M., (1998). Developments in ESP: A multi-disciplinary approach.
Cambridge/New York: Cambridge University Press.
Easterby-Smith, M. (1981). The design, analysis and interpretation of repertory grids. In M. L.
G. Shaw (Ed.), Recent advances in personal construct technology (pp. 9–30). London:
Academic.
Eaves, Y. (2001). A synthesis technique for grounded theory data analysis. Journal of Advanced
Nursing, 35(5), 654–663.
Edelman, M. (1964). The symbolic uses of politics. Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Ehrenberg, R. (2010, August 23). Student services matter. New York Times. http://www.nytimes.
com/roomfordebate/2010/08/22/why-are-college-students-studying-less/student-service-
expenditures-matter. Accessed 28 Aug 2010.
Eisner, E. W. (2001). Concerns and aspirations for qualitative research in the new millennium.
Qualitative Research, 1(2), 135–145.
Ennew, C., & Greenaway, D. (2012). The globalization of higher education. Houndmills,
Basingstoke, Hampshire/New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Ewell, P. (1991). Assessment and TQM: In search of convergence. Total Quality Management in
Higher Education, 18(3), 39–52.
Faculty Banned from Admin Office. (2008). The Times Higher Education. London: The Times
Higher Education. http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/story.asp?sectioncode=26&storyc
ode=403601. Accessed 18 Sept 2008.
References
173
Feher, I. (2001). The Humboldtian idea of a university. The bond between philosophy and the
humanities in the making of the Modern University. Neohelicon, 28, 33–37.
Feller, G. (2004). Can Koizumi Privatize Japan? The next wave of reforms challenges the socialist
state. Japan, Incorporated. Tokyo. http://www.allbusiness.com/asia/japan/195182-1.html.
Accessed 25 Dec 2010.
Fielding, N. (2001). Ethnography. In N. Gilbert (Ed.), Researching social life (2nd ed., pp. 145–
163). London: Sage.
Fincher, R., Simpson, D., Mennin, S., Rosenfeld, G., Rothman, A., McGrew, M., et al. (2000).
Scholarship in teaching: An imperative for the 21st century. Academic Medicine, 75(9), 887.
Findlay, A., King, R., Smith, F., Geddes, A., & Skeldon, R. (2012). World class? An investigation
of globalisation, difference and international student mobility. Transactions of the Institute of
British Geographers, 37(1), 118–131.
Fine, G. (1993). The sad demise, Mysterious disappearance and glorious triumph of symbolic
interactionism. Annual Review of Sociology, 19, 61–87.
Fitz-Gibbon, C. (1998). Monitoring education: Indicators, quality and effectiveness. London:
Continuum International Publishing Group.
Flora, B. (2008). The professional lives of higher education center administrators. Ph.D. Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA.
Flyvbjerg, B. (2004). Phronetic planning research: Theoretical and methodological reflections.
Planning Theory & Practice, 5(3), 283–306.
Forrest, S. (2008). Staying competitive with Europe. International Educator, 17(3), 88–91.
Foucault, M. (1977). Discipline and punish: The birth of the prison (A. Sheridan, Trans.).
New York: Vintage Books.
Fox, C. (2002). The massification of higher education. In D. Hayes & R. Wynyard (Eds.), The
McDonaldization of higher education (pp. 129–142). London: Bergin and Garvey.
Fox, J. (2009). Moderating top-down policy impact and supporting EAP curricular renewal:
exploring the potential of diagnostic assessment. Journal of English for Academic Purposes,
8(1), 26–42. doi:10.1016/j.jeap.2008.12.004.
Fransella, F., Bell, R., & Bannister, D. (2004). A manual for repertory grid technique (2nd ed.).
Chichester: Wiley.
Frieden, J. (2006). Global capitalism: Its fall and rise in the twentieth century. New York:
W.W. Norton & Company.
Friedman, M. (1962/1982). Capitalism and freedom. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Friedrich, P. (1988). Multiplicity and pluralism in anthropological construction/synthesis.
Anthropological Quarterly, 61(3), 103–112.
Friedrich, P. (1989). Language, ideology, and political economy. American Anthropologist, 91(2),
295–312.
Gan, Z., Humphries, G., & Hamp-Lyons, L. (2004). Understanding successful and unsuccessful
EFL students in Chinese universities. Modern Language Journal, 88(2), 229–244.
Garner, R. (2014, January 2). The academic fat cats: Vice-chancellors at Britain’s top universities
get £22,000 pay rises – As lecturers are stuck on 1 per cent. The Independent (Online). London:
Independent Print Ltd. http://www.independent.co.uk/student/news/university-chiefs-under-
fire-for-huge-pay-rises-after-tuition-fee-hikes-9034893.html. Accessed 5 Feb 2014.
Garvin, D. (1988). Managing quality: The strategic and competitive edge. New York: Free Press.
Gillett, A. (2004). The ABC of ELT… “EAP”. IATEFL Issues, (178), 11.
Gillies, D. (2008). Quality and equality: The mask of discursive conflation in education policy
texts. Journal of Education Policy, 23(6), 685–699.
Giroux, H. (1988). Teachers as intellectuals: Toward a critical pedagogy of learning. Granby:
Bergin & Garvey.
Gjerde, P., & Shimizu, H. (1995). Family relationships and adolescent development in Japan: A
family-systems perspective on the Japanese family. Journal of Research on Adolescence, 5(3),
281–318.
Glaser, B. (1978). Theoretical sensitivity : Advances in the methodology of grounded theory. Mill
Valley: Sociology Press.
Glaser, B. (1992). Basics of grounded theory analysis. Mill Valley: Sociology Press.
References
174
Glaser, B., & Strauss, A. (1967/1999). The discovery of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative
research. New York: Aldine de Gruyter.
Goffman, E. (1959/2005). The presentation of self in everyday life. New York: Anchor Books.
Goodman, R. (2005). W(h)ither the Japanese University? An introduction to the 2004 higher edu-
cation reforms in Japan. In J. Eades, R. Goodman, &Y. Hada (Eds.), The ‘Big Bang’in Japanese
higher education: The 2004 reforms and the dynamics of change (pp. 1–31). Melbourne/
Beppu: Trans Pacific Press & Ritsumeikan Center for Asia Pacific Studies.
Goodman, R. (2010). The rapid redrawing of boundaries in Japanese higher education. Japan
Forum, 22(1–2), 65–87.
Gottlieb, M. (1995). Nurturing student learning through portfolios. TESOL Journal, 5(1), 12–14.
Goulding, C. (2005). Grounded theory: A practical guide for management, business and market
researchers. London: Sage.
Graddol, D. (2008, 31 October–November 1). English and globalisation: Today and tomorrow.
Paper presented at the 34th JALT international conference/PAC7, Tokyo.
Greenfield, R. (2003). Collaborative E-mail exchange for teaching secondary ESL: A case study in
Hong Kong. Language Learning & Technology, 7(1), 46–70.
Grönroos, C. (2002). Quo Vadis, marketing? Toward a relationship marketing paradigm with
retrospective comment by Michael J. Baker. The Marketing Review, 3, 129–146.
doi:10.1362/146934702763487234.
Gunning. (2009). An immodest proposal for tertiary level EFL: An interview with Mike Guest. The
Language Teacher, 33(9), 15–18.
Guri-Rosenblit, S., Sebkova, H., & Teichler, U. (2007). Massification and diversity of higher edu-
cation systems: Interplay of complex dimensions. Higher Education Policy, 20, 373–389.
doi:10.1057/palgrave.hep.8300158.
Hadley, G. (1997). A survey of cultural influences in Japanese ELT. Bulletin of Keiwa College, 6,
61–87.
Hadley, G. (1999). Innovative curricula in tertiary ELT: A Japanese case study. ELT Journal, 53(2),
92–99. doi:10.1093/elt/53.2.92.
Hadley, G. (2007). Field of spears: The last mission of the Jordan crew. Sheffield: Paulownia Press.
Hadley, G., & Evans, C. (2001). Constructions across a cultural gap. In J. Edge (Ed.), Action
research (pp. 129–143). Alexandria: TESOL.
Harding,A., Scott,A., Laske, S., & Burtscher, C. (Eds.). (2007). Bright Satanic Mills: Universities,
regional development and the knowledge economy. Aldershot: Ashgate.
Hargreaves, A. (1994). Restructuring restructuring: Postmodernity and the prospects for educa-
tional change. Journal of Education Policy, 9(1), 47–65.
Harker, M. (1999). Relationship marketing defined?An examination of current relationship marketing
definitions. Marketing Intelligence & Planning, 17(1), 13–20. doi:10.1108/02634509910253768.
Harklau, L. (2005). Ethnography and ethnographic research on second language teaching and
learning. In E. Hinkel (Ed.), Handbook of research in second language teaching and learning
(pp. 179–194). Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Incorporated.
Harper, S., & Kuh, G. (2007). Myths and misconceptions about using qualitative methods in
assessment. New Directions for Institutional Research, 2007(136), 5–14.
Harvey, D. (2005). A brief history of neoliberalism. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Harvey, L., & Green, D. (1993). Defining quality. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education,
18(1), 9–34.
Harwood, N., & Hadley, G. (2004). Demystifying institutional practices: Critical pragmatism and
the teaching of academic writing. English for Specific Purposes, 23(4), 355–377.
Hato, Y. (2005). Problems in top-down goal setting in second language education: A case study of
the ‘Action Plan to Cultivate’ Japanese with English abilities. JALT Journal, 27(1), 33–52.
Hatton, E. (1989). Levi-Strauss’s “Bricolage” and theorizing teachers’ work. Anthropology &
Education Quarterly, 20(2), 74–96.
Hawley, A. (2005). Reaching Eurasia’s student through web technology. International Educator,
14(5), 52–55.
References
175
He, B. G., & Warren, M. (2008).Authoritarian deliberation: The deliberative turn in Chinese politi-
cal development. In American Political Science Association annual meeting, Boston, MA,
August 28–31, 2008. http://www.politics.ubc.ca/fileadmin/template/main/images/departments/
poli_sci/Faculty/warren/Authortarian_Deliberation_APSA_2008.pdf
Heath, S., Street, B., & Mills, M. (2008). On ethnography: Approaches to language and literacy
research. New York: Teachers College Press.
Held, D., McGrew, A., Goldblatt, D., & Perraton, J. (1999). Global transformations: Politics,
economics and culture. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Henwood, K., & Pidgeon, N. (2006). Grounded theory. In G. Breakwell, S. Hammond, C. Fife-
Schaw, & J. Smith (Eds.), Research methods in psychology (3rd ed., pp. 342–365). London/
New Delhi: Sage.
Hoecht, A. (2006). Quality assurance in UK higher education: Issues of trust, control, professional
autonomy and accountability. Higher Education, 51(4), 541–563.
Holliday, A. (1994). Student culture and English language education: An international perspective.
Language, Culture and Curriculum, 7(2), 125–143.
Holliday, A. (2002). Doing and writing qualitative research. London/Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Hoogvelt, A. (2001). Globalization and the postcolonial world: The new political economy of
development (2nd ed.). Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Hu, G. W. (2005). Using peer review with Chinese ESL student writers. Language Teaching
Research, 9(3), 321–342. doi:10.1191/1362168805lr169oa.
Hubball, H., & Gold, N. (2007). The scholarship of curriculum practice and undergraduate
program reform: Integrating theory into practice. New Directions for Teaching and Learning,
112, 5–14.
Hubbard, D. (1993). Continuous quality improvement: Making the transition to education.
Maryville: Prescott Publishing Company.
Huczynski, A. (1992). Management Guru ideas and the 12 secrets of their success. Leadership &
Organization Development Journal, 13(5), 15–20.
Hulstrand, M. (2008). Educating for global business. International Educator, 17(5), 36–44.
Hutchings, P., & Shulman, L. S. (1999). The scholarship of teaching: New elaborations, new
developments. Change: The Magazine of Higher Learning, 31(5), 10–15.
Hyde, L. (1998). Trickster makes this world: Mischief, myth, and art. NewYork: Farrar, Straus and
Giroux.
Hyland, K. (2006). English for academic purposes: An advanced resource book (Routledge
applied linguistics). London/New York: Routledge.
Hyland, K., & Hamp-Lyons, L. (2002). EAP: Issues and directions. Journal of English for
Academic Purposes, 1(1), 1–12.
Ishikawa, M. (2009). University rankings, global models, and emerging hegemony. Journal of
Studies in International Education, 13(2), 159.
Itoh, A. (2002). Higher education reform in perspective: The Japanese experience. Higher
Education, 43(7), 7–25.
JABEE Website. (2007). http://www.jabee.org/english/OpenHomePage/e_jabee_office.htm.
Accessed 19 Jan 2010.
Jankowicz, D. (2004). The easy guide to repertory grids. Chichester: Wiley.
Jansen, M., & Stone, L. (1967). Review: Education and modernization in Japan and England
(Review article). Comparative Studies in Society and History, 9(2), 208–232.
Jarvis, P. (2001). Universities and corporate universities: The higher learning industry in global
society. London: Routledge.
Jenkins, J. (2007). English as a Lingua Franca: Attitude and identity. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Jessop, B. (2002). Liberalism, neoliberalism, and Urban governance: A state–theoretical perspec-
tive. Antipode, 34(3), 452–472. doi:10.1111/1467-8330.00250.
Jiang, M. (2008, June 21–22). Authoritarian deliberation: Public deliberation in China. In New
media and the social reform: Proceedings of the 2008 global communication forum, Shanghai,
China, 21–22 June 2008 (pp. 273–290). School of Media and Design, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University, Shanghai, China.
References
176
June, A. (2009). Faculty strike shuts down Michigan’s Oakland U. The Chronicle of Higher
Education. Washington, DC: The Chronicle of Higher Education. http://chronicle.com/article/
Faculty-Strike-Shuts-Down/48286/. Accessed 28 May 2010.
Kachru, B. (1982). The other tongue: English across cultures. Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Kaczmarek, P., Matlock, G., Merta, R., Ames, M., & Ross, M. (1994). An assessment of interna-
tional college student adjustment. International Journal for the Advancement of Counselling,
17(4), 241–247. doi:10.1007/bf01407740.
Kagan, H., & Cohen, J. (1990). Cultural adjustment of international students. Psychological
Science, 1(2), 133–137. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9280.1990.tb00082.x.
Kallur, R. (2006). Ethical practice in community college recruitment. In R. Kallur & M. Reeves
(Eds.), Guidelines for ethical practices in international student recruitment (pp. 10–15).
Washington, DC: NAFSA: Association of International Educators.
Kanji, G., Malek, A., & Tambi, B. (1999). Total quality management in UK higher education insti-
tutions. Total Quality Management, 10(1), 129–153.
Katz, E. (2006). Recruiting international graduate students today. International Educator, 15(4),
54–58.
Kayrooz, C., & Preston, P. (2002). Academic freedom: impressions of Australian social scientists.
Minerva: A Review of Science, Learning & Policy, 40(4), 341–358.
Kelly, G. A. (1955). A theory of personality. New York: Norton.
Kelly, G. A. (1963). A theory of personality: The psychology of personal constructs. New York:
W.W. Norton.
Kempster, S., & Parry, K. (2011). Grounded theory and leadership research: A critical realist
perspective. The Leadership Quarterly, 22(1), 106–120, doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
leaqua.2010.12.010
Kennedy, C. (1986). The future of English language teaching. System, 14(3), 307–314.
Kezar, A. (2004). Obtaining integrity? reviewing and examining the charter between higher educa-
tion and society. The Review of Higher Education, 27(4), 429–459.
King, R., Marginson, S., & Naidoo, R. (Eds.). (2011). Handbook on globalization and higher
education. Cheltenham/Northampton: Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.
Kinnell, M. (1989). International marketing in UK higher education: Some issues in relation to
marketing educational programmes to overseas students. European Journal of Marketing, 23,
7–21. doi:10.1108/eum0000000000566.
Kirp, D. (2010). The Earth is flattening: The globalization of higher education and its implications
for equal opportunity. In F. Lazin, M. Evans, & N. Jayaram (Eds.), Higher education and
equality of opportunities: Cross-national perspectives (pp. 11–24). Lanham: Lexington Books.
Kitagawa, F. (2009). University industry links and regional development in Japan: Connecting
excellence and relevance? Science, Technology and Society, 14(1), 1–33.
Kitagawa, F., & Oba, J. (2010). Managing differentiation of higher education system in
Japan: Connecting excellence and diversity. Higher Education, 59(4), 507–524. http://www.
springerlink.com.ezproxye.bham.ac.uk/content/p1016017w7r73336/fulltext.pdf
Klafter, C. (2008). University internalization: Dreaming of a bygone age. International Educator,
17(4), 56–59.
Klein, N. (2007). The shock doctrine: The rise of disaster capitalism. Toronto: Alfred A Knopf.
Knight, J. (2006). Crossborder education: An analytical framework for program and provider
mobility. In J. Smart (Ed.), Higher education: Handbook of theory and practice (pp. 207–227).
Dordrecht: Springer Academic Publishers.
Koch, J., & Fisher, J. (1998). Higher education and total quality management. Total Quality
Management, 9, 659–668.
Korzeniewicz, R., & Moran, T. (2000). Measuring world income inequalities. American Journal of
Sociology, 106(1), 209–214.
Koslowski, F. (2006). Quality and assessment in context: A brief review. Quality Assurance in
Education: An International Perspective, 14(3), 277–288.
Koslowski, F. (2007). Expectations, challenges, and frustrations: Faculty and administrator per-
ceptions of quality and assessment. Academic Leadership: The Online Journal, 3(3).
References
177
Kreber, C. (2006). Developing the scholarship of teaching through transformative learning. Journal
of Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 6(1), 88–109.
Kreber, C. (2008). The modern research university and its disciplines: The interplay between contex-
tual and context-transcendent influences on teaching. In C. Kreber (Ed.), The university and its
disciplines: Teaching and learning within and beyond (pp. 19–34). NewYork/London: Routledge.
Kreber, C. (2010, March 12). Empowering the scholarship of teaching and learning: Towards an
authentic practice. Paper presented at the SoTL Commons Conference, Georgia Southern
University.
Kubler, G. (1962/2008). The shape of time: Remarks on the history of things. New Haven: Yale
University Press.
Kubota, R. (1998). Ideologies of English in Japan. World Englishes, 17(3), 295–306.
Kubota, R., Lin, A., Rich, S., & Troudi, S. (2006). Hard Times: Arab TESOL students’experiences
of racialization and othering in the United Kingdom. TESOL Quarterly, 40(3), 615–627.
doi:10.2307/40264548.
Kung, S. (2004). Synchronous electronic discussions in an EFL reading class. ELT Journal, 58(2),
164–173.
Kushner, K., & Morrow, R. (2003). Grounded theory, feminist theory, critical theory: Toward
theoretical triangulation. Advances in Nursing Science Critical & Postmodern Perspectives,
26(1), 30–43.
Lapadat, J. (2000). Problematizing transcription: Purpose, paradigm and quality. International
Journal of Social Research Methodology, 3(3), 203–219.
Lather, P. (1986). Research as praxis. Harvard Educational Review, 56(3), 257–277.
Layder, D. (1982). Grounded theory: A constructive critique. Journal for the Theory of Social
Behaviour, 12(1), 103–122.
Layder, D. (1993). New strategies in social research: An introduction and guide. Cambridge:
Polity Press.
Lazzeroni, M., & Piccaluga,A. (2003). Towards the entrepreneurial university. Local Economy, 18,
38–48. doi:10.1080/0269094032000073807.
Leckey, J., & Neill, N. (2001). Quantifying quality: The importance of student feedback. Quality
in Higher Education, 7(1), 19–32.
Leithwood, K., Steinbach, R., & Jantzi, D. (2002). School leadership and teachers’ Motivation to
implement accountability policies. Educational Administration Quarterly, 38(1), 94–119. doi:
10.1177/0013161x02381005.
Levine, E. (2002). Emily Levine’s theory of everything. http://www.ted.com/talks/emily_levine_s_
theory_of_everything.html. Accessed 4 Feb 2011.
Levi-Strauss, C. (1966). The savage mind (The nature of human society series). Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Levitt, S. (2004). Steven Levitt analyzes crack economics. In Technology, entertainment and
design conference, Monterey, California, February 2004. http://www.ted.com/talks/steven_
levitt_analyzes_crack_economics.html
Levitt, S., & Dubner, S. (2005). Freakonomics: A Rogue economist explores the hidden side of
everything. New York: William Morrow.
Liaw, M. (2007). Constructing a ‘Third Space’ for EFL learners: Where language and cultures
meet. ReCALL, 19(2), 224–241.
Locke, K. (2005). Grounded theory in management research. London: Sage.
Lowe, S., & Carr, A. (2003). Paradigmapping and management as a moral art: Clearing a path
through the incommensurability debate in organisation and management studies. In J. Biberman
& A. Alkhafaji (Eds.), Business research yearbook: Global business perspectives (Vol. 10,
pp. 778–782). Saline: McNaughton & Gunn.
Luce, L., & Smith, E. (1979). Cross-cultural literacy: A national priority. In L. Luce & E. Smith
(Eds.), Toward internationalism: Readings in cross-cultural communication (pp. 3–10).
Boston: Heinle & Heinle Publishers.
Luo,Y. (2003). Chinese students’ perceptions of interview project task in EFL task-based learning
classroom. Oriental Institute of Technology Journal, 23, 1–10.
References
178
Lynch, T. (2001). Promoting EAP learner autonomy in a second language university context. In
J. Flowerdew & M. Peacock (Eds.), Research perspectives on English for academic purposes
(pp. 390–403). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mack, R. (1957). Occupational ideology and the determinate role. Social Forces, 36(1), 37–44.
Madigan, R., Johnson, S., & Linton, P. (1995). The language of psychology: APA style as episte-
mology. American Psychologist, 50(6), 428–436.
Manara, C. (2014). “So what do you want us to do?”: A critical reflection of teaching English as
an international language in an Australian context. In R. Marlina & R. A. Gir (Eds.), The
pedagogy of English as an international language (English language education, Vol. 1, pp.
189–202). Cham: Springer International Publishing. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-06127-6_13.
ISBN 978-3-319-06126-9.
Marriott, H. (2004). A programmatic exploration of issues in the academic interaction of Japanese
students overseas. Journal of Asian Pacific Communication, 14, 33–54.
Marx, K. (1887/1990). Capital (Vol. 1). London: Penguin.
Matsuda, A. (2003). Incorporating world Englishes in teaching English as an international
language. TESOL Quarterly, 37(4), 719–729.
Mauk, D., & Oakland, J. (2002). American civilization: An introduction (3rd ed.). London/New
York: Routledge.
McKenzie, K., & Scheurich, J. (2004). The corporatization and privatization of schooling: A call
for grounded critical praxis. Educational Theory, 54(4), 431–443.
McLellan, E., MacQueen, K., & Neidig, J. (2003). Beyond the qualitative interview: Data prepara-
tion and transcription. Field Methods, 15(1), 63–84. doi:10.1177/1525822x02239573.
McVeigh, B. (2002). Japanese higher education as myth. Armonk: M.E. Sharpe.
Meehl, P. (1998, May 23). The power of quantitative thinking (Speech delivered upon receipt of the
James McKeen Cattell Fellow award). Paper presented at the American Psychological Society,
Washington, DC. http://www.psych.umn.edu/faculty/waller/classes/meas08/Readings/
PowerQuantThinking.pdf
Meek, V. L. (1991). The transformation of Australian higher education from binary to unitary
system. Higher Education, 21(4), 461–494.
Mergenthaler, E., & Stinson, C. (1992). Psychotherapy transcription standards. Psychotherapy
Research, 2, 125–142.
Merton, R. (1967). Social theory and social structure. New York: The Free Press.
Mestenhauser, J., & Ellingboe, B. (2005). Leadership knowledge and international education.
International Educator, 14(6), 36–43.
Meyer, J., Ramirez, F., Frank, D., & Schofer, E. (2007). Higher education as an institution.
In P. Gumport (Ed.), Sociology of higher education: Contributions and their contexts
(pp. 187–221). Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Middlehurst, R. (2001). University challenges: Borderless higher education, today and tomorrow.
Minerva, 39(1), 3–26.
Miles, M. (1979). Qualitative data as an attractive nuisance:The problem of analysis. Administrative
Science Quarterly, 24(4), 590–601.
Mills, C. (1959/2000). The sociological imagination. New York: Oxford University Press.
Mintzberg, H. (1989). Mintzberg on management. New York: Free Press.
Miyoshi, M. (1993). A borderless world? From colonialism to transnationalism and the decline of
the Nation-State. Critical Inquiry, 19(4), 726–751.
Miyoshi, M. (2000). The university and the “Global” economy: The cases of the United States and
Japan. South Atlantic Quarterly, 99(4), 669–696. doi:10.1215/00382876-99-4-669.
Mok, J., & Lo, E. (2002). Marketization and the changing governance in higher education: A com-
parative study. Higher Education Management and Policy, 14(1), 51–82.
Molé, N. (2012). Labor disorders in neoliberal Italy: Mobbing, well-being, and the workplace.
Bloomington/Indianapolis: Indiana University Press.
More, D. (1962). Demotion. Social Problems, 9(3), 213–221.
Morgan, G. (1997). Images of organization. Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Morgan, R., & Hunt, S. (1994). The commitment-trust theory of relationship marketing. The
Journal of Marketing, 58(3), 20–38.
References
179
Morra, A., & Romano, M. (2009). University students’ reactions to guided peer feedback of EAP
compositions. Journal of College Literacy & Learning, 35, 19–30.
MQA Education Criteria for Performance Excellence. (2006). Jefferson City: Excellence in
Missouri Foundation.
Mulvey, B. (2010). University accreditation in Japan: Problems and possibilities for reforming
EFL education. The Language Teacher, 34(1), 15–24.
Murphy, C. (2005). Going with the flows? International Educator, p. 2.
Murphy-Shigematsu, S. (2002). Psychological barriers for international students in Japan.
International Journal for the Advancement of Counselling, 24(1), 19–30.
Myles, J., & Cheng, L. (2003). The social and cultural life of non-native English speaking interna-
tional graduate students at a Canadian University. Journal of English for Academic Purposes,
2, 247–263.
Mynard, J., & Almarzouqi, I. (2006). Investigating peer tutoring. ELT Journal, 60(1), 13–22.
Nakai, K. (2008). Konmei suru Kokuritsu Daigaku Hojinka (The disorienting state of the incorpo-
ration of national universities). Chuo Koron, pp. 74–81.
Narasimhan, K. (1997). Improving teaching and learning: The perceptions minus expectations gap
analysis approach. Training for Quality, 5(3), 121–125.
Nevara, J. (2004). Colleges of technology: An overview and a look into the future. The Language
Teacher, 28(4), 9–11.
New College Heads Drive Change. (2008). University of Birmingham Alumni Newsletter, p. 2.
Newton, J. (2000). Feeding the beast or improving quality?: Academics’ perceptions of quality
assurance and quality monitoring. Quality in Higher Education, 6(2), 153–163.
Noll, R., & Cohen, L. (1998). Universities, constituencies and the role of states. In R. Noll
(Ed.), Challenges to research universities (pp. 31–62). Washington, DC: Brookings
Institute Press.
Nunan, D. (1992). Research methods in language learning. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
OECD. (2009). Education at a glance 2009: OECD indicators. Organisation for Economic
Co-Operation and Development. http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/41/25/43636332.pdf.
Accessed 4 Jan 2010.
Ohta, N. (2003). Applied linguistics and TEFL in Japan. Kanazawa English Studies, 24, 261–276.
Oliver, C. (2012). Critical realist grounded theory: A new approach for social work research.
British Journal of Social Work, 42(2), 371–387. doi:10.1093/bjsw/bcr064.
Olssen, M., & Peters, M. (2005). Neoliberalism, higher education and the knowledge economy:
From the free market to knowledge capitalism. Journal of Education Policy, 20(3), 313–345.
doi:10.1080/02680930500108718.
Orland-Barak, L. (2001). Learning to mentor as learning a second language of teaching. Cambridge
Journal of Education, 31(1), 53–68.
O’Toole, J. (1975). The reserve army of the underemployed: II-the role of education. Change, 7(5),
26–33–60–63.
Outing, K., & Hauschild, K. (2009). Using assessment to enhance student resource use, engage-
ment, and connecting in the first year. In T. Banta, E. Jones, & K. Black (Eds.), Designing
effective assessment: Principles and profiles of good practice (pp. 180–184). San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass.
Patterson, P. (2001). Imagining anti-administration’s anti-hero (antagonist? protagonist? agonist?).
Administrative Theory & Praxis, 23(4), 529–540.
Pennington, M. (1992). Second class or economy? The status of the English language teaching
profession in tertiary education. Prospect, 7(3), 11–23.
Pennycook, A. (1997). Vulgar pragmatism, critical pragmatism, and EAP. English for Specific
Purposes, 16(4), 253–269.
Poland, B. (2001). Transcription quality. In J. Gubrium & J. Holstein (Eds.), Handbook of inter-
view research: Context & method (pp. 629–650). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Poole, G. (2010). The Japanese professor: An ethnography of a university faculty. Rotterdam/
Boston: Sense Publishers.
Power, S., & Whitty, G. (1999). Market forces and school cultures. In J. Prosser (Ed.), School
culture (pp. 15–29). London: Paul Chapman Publishing.
References
180
Powley, E. (2009). Reclaiming resilience and safety: Resilience activation in the critical period of
crisis. Human Relations, 62(9), 1289–1326. doi:10.1177/0018726709334881.
Ramsden, P. (2008a). The future of higher education teaching and the student experience. London:
DIUS.
Ramsden, P. (2008b). Patterns of higher education institutions in the UK: Eighth report. London:
Universities UK.
Rasanen, A. (2008). Tuning ESP/EAP for mobility, employability and expertise. In I. Fortanet-
Gomez & C. Raisanen (Eds.), ESP in European higher education: Integrating language and
content (pp. 247–266). Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Readings, B. (1996). The university in Ruins. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Reinig, M. (2008). Blogging ahead. International Educator, 17(4), 48–51.
Relaxed Rules Led to Too Many Universities. (2013, November 4). The Yomiuri Shimbun Online.
Tokyo. http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T121103002195.htm
Richards, K. (2003). Qualitative inquiry in TESOL. Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire:
Palgrave Macmillan.
Richardson, R., & Kramer, E. (2006). Abduction as the type of inference that characterizes the
development of a grounded theory. Qualitative Inquiry, 6(4), 497–513.
Ritzer, G. (2000). The McDonaldization of society (New Century, Ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Ritzer, G. (2002). Enchanting McDonaldization: Toward a spectacularly irrational university quo-
tidian. In D. Hayes & R. Wynyard (Eds.), The McDonaldization of higher education (pp. 1–32).
London: Bergin and Garvey.
Rivers, D. (2008). The (sic) relatively of TBLT withinAsian EFL contexts:Approaching key issues
in classroom pedagogy from and experimental perspective. In M. C. Wai, N. C. Kwee,
M. Nagami, T. Suthiwan, & P. Martin-Lau (Eds.), The third CLS international conference
CLaSIC 2008 4–7 December (pp. 444–468). Singapore: Centre for Language Studies, NUS.
Roberts, J. (1999). Personal construct psychology as a framework for research into teacher and
learnerthinking.LanguageTeachingResearch,3(2),117–144.doi:10.1177/136216889900300203.
Robison, J. (2007). Ethical considerations in the use of commercial agents in international student
recruitment. Ed.D. University of Missouri, Columbia (USA), Columbia.
Rollinson, P. (2005). Using peer feedback in the ESL writing class. ELT Journal, 59(1), 23–30.
doi:10.1093/elt/cci003.
Rothkopf, D. (1997). In praise of cultural imperialism? Foreign Policy, Summer(107), 38–53.
Rouleau, L. (2005). Micro practices of strategic sensemaking and sensegiving: How middle managers
interpret and sell change every day. Journal of Management Studies, 42(7), 1413–1441.
Rouleau, L., & Balogun, J. (2011). Middle managers, strategic sensemaking, and discursive
competence. Journal of Management Studies, Early View, 48(5), 953–983. doi:
10.1111/j.1467-6486.2010.00941.x
Rowsell, L. (1992). Adults dropping out? Try repgrid! ELT Journal, 46(4), 362–372. doi:10.1093/
elt/46.4.362.
Sahney, S., Banwet, D., & Karunes, S. (2004). Conceptualizing total quality management in higher
education. The TQM Magazine, 16(2), 145–159.
Sakui, K. (2004). Wearing two pairs of shoes: Language teaching in Japan. ELT Journal, 58(2),
155–163.
Saldaña, J. (2011). The coding manual for qualitative researchers. London/Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Salter, B., & Tapper, T. (2000). The politics of governance in higher education: The case of quality
assurance. Political Studies, 48(1), 66–87.
Sander, P., Stevenson, K., King, M., & Coates, D. (2000). University students’ expectations of
teaching. Studies in Higher Education, 25(3), 309–323.
Saraiva, P., Rosa, M., & D’Orey, J. (2003). Applying an excellence model to schools. Quality
Progress, 36(11), 46–51.
Savin-Baden, M. (2009, September 15). Researching on the edge: Working at the borders of ‘real’
and ‘immersive’spaces. Paper presented at the iPED 2009, 4th international inquiring pedago-
gies conference, Coventry University, UK.
Sawir, E. (2005). Language difficulties of international students in Australia: The effects of prior
learning experience. International Education Journal, 6(5), 567–580.
References
181
Scale of Student Visa Fraud Condemned as ‘Truly Shocking’. (2014). BBC News: UK Politics.
London: BBC. http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-27993775. Accessed 24 June 2014.
Schatzman, L. (1991). Dimensional analysis: Notes on an alternative approach to the grounding of
theory in qualitative research. In D. Maines (Ed.), Social organization and social process:
Essays in honor of Anselm Strauss (pp. 303–314). New York: Aladine de Gruyter.
Scholte, J. (2004). Globalization studies past and future: A dialogue of diversity (Workshop
Report, Ed., pp. 1–15). Coventry: University of Warwick, Centre for the Study of Globalisation
and Regionalisation.
Scholte, J. (2005). The sources of neoliberal globalization. New York: United Nations Research
Institute for Social Development (UNRISD).
Scholte, J. (2008). Defining globalisation. The World Economy, 31(11), 1471–1502.
Schroeder, C. (2007). Countering SoTL marginalization: A model for integrating SoTL with
institutional initiatives. International Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning,
1(1), 1–9.
Scott, M. (2005). WordSmith tools 4.0. (Corpus analysis software, 4.0 Ed.). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Scott, C., & Dinham, S. (2002). The beatings will continue until quality improves: Using carrots
and sticks in the quest for educational improvement. Teacher Development, 6, 15–32.
doi:10.1080/13664530200200154.
Seargeant, P. (2008). Ideologies of English in Japan: The perspective of policy and pedagogy.
Language Policy, 7(2), 121–142.
Seidlhofer, B., & Jenkins, J. (2003). English as a Lingua Franca and the politics of property.
In C. Mair (Ed.), The politics of English as a world language: New horizons in postcolonial
cultural studies (pp. 139–154). Amsterdam/New York: Rodopi.
Senior, R. (2006). The experience of language teaching. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Sergiovanni, T. (1986). Leadership as cultural expression. In T. Sergiovanni & J. Corbally (Eds.),
Leadership and organizational culture: New perspectives on administrative theory and prac-
tice (pp. 105–114). Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Service Learning andVolunteering Opportunities. (2010). http://www.universitas21.com/Mobility/
SMservicelearning.html. Accessed 4 Apr 2010.
Seymour, D. (1992). On Q: Causing quality in higher education. Riverside: Macmillan Publishing
Company.
Sharff, J., & Lessinger, J. (1994). The academic sweatshop: Changes in the capitalist infrastructure
and the part-time academic. Anthropology Today, 10(5), 12–15.
Shaw, M. L. G., & Gaines, B. (2009). Rep 5 (1.03 Ed.). Cobble Hill: Centre for Person-Computer
Studies.
Shimahara, N. (1986). The cultural basis of student achievement in Japan. Comparative Education,
22(1), 19–26.
Shore, C., & Wright, S. (2004). Whose accountability? Governmentality and the auditing of
universities. Parallax, 10(2), 100–116.
Shulman, L. S. (2000). From Minsk to Pinsk: Why a scholarship of teaching and learning? Journal
of Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (JoSoTL), 1(1), 48–53.
Silverman, D. (2001). Interpreting qualitative data: Methods for analysing talk, text, and interac-
tion (2nd ed.). London: Sage.
Silvey, R. (2002). Sweatshops and the corporatization of the university. Gender, Place & Culture,
9(2), 201–207.
Simmons, O., & Gregory, T. (2003). Grounded action: Achieving optimal and sustainable change.
Forum Qualitative Social Research, 4(3).
Slaughter, S., & Rhoades, G. (2004). Academic capitalism: Politics, policies and the new entrepre-
neurial university. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Slaughter, S., & Rhoades, G. (2005). Markets in higher education: Students in the seventies,
patents in the eighties, copyrights in the nineties. In P. Altbach, R. Berdahl, & P. Gumport
(Eds.), American higher education in the twenty-first century: Social, political and economic
challenges (pp. 486–516). Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press.
References
182
Smeby, J. (2003). The impact of massification on university research. Tertiary Education and
Management, 9(2), 131–144.
Smith, N. (2000). Who rules the Sausage Factory? Antipode, 32(3), 330–339.
Smith, D., Baston, L., Bocock, J., & Scott, P. (2002). Americanization and UK higher education:
Towards a history of transatlantic influence on policy and practice. Journal of Education Policy,
17(4), 443–461.
South Korea School Gets Robot English Teachers. (2010). Discovery News. http://news.discovery.
com/tech/south-korea-schools-get-robot-english-teachers.html. Accessed 29 Dec 2010.
Spellings, M. (2007). Fostering global understanding through international education. International
Educator, 16(2), 4–6.
Spolsky, B. (1998). The role of English as a language of maximum access in Israeli language prac-
tices and policies. Studia Anglica Posnaniensia, 33, 377–398.
Stanley, E., & Patrick, W. (1998). Quality assurance in American and British higher education: A
comparison. New Directions for Institutional Research, 99, 39–56.
Steck, H. (2003). Corporatization of the university: Seeking conceptual clarity. The ANNALS of the
AmericanAcademyofPoliticalandSocialScience,585(1),66–83.doi:10.1177/0002716202238567.
Steger, M., & Roy, R. (2010). Neoliberalism: A very short introduction. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Stern, P., & Porr, C. (2011). Essentials of accessible grounded theory. Walnut Creek: Left Coast Press.
Strathern, M. (1997). ‘Improving ratings’: Audit in the British University system. European
Review, 5(3), 305–321.
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. (1990). Basics of qualitative research. Newbury Park: Sage.
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. (Eds.). (1997). Grounded theory in practice. Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. (1998). Basics of qualitative research: Techniques and procedures for
developing grounded theory (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Su, S. (2010). Motivating and justifiable: Teaching Western literature to EFL students at a
University of Science and Technology. TESL-EJ: The Electronic Journal for English as a
Second Language, 14(1). http://www.tesl-ej.org/wordpress/issues/volume14/ej53/ej53a2/.
Accessed 6 Sept 2010.
Sugino, T. (2010). Teacher demotivational factors in the Japanese language teaching context.
Procedia – Social and Behavioral Sciences, 3, 216–226. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2010.07.036.
Sunderland, J. (2002). Baby entertainer, bumbling assistant and line manager: Discourses of pater-
nal identity in parentcraft texts. In L. Litosseliti (Ed.), Gender identity and discourse analysis
(pp. 293–324). Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Svensson, G., & Wood, G. (2007). Are university students really customers? When illusion may
lead to delusion for all! The International Journal of Educational Management, 21, 17–28.
doi:10.1108/09513540710716795.
Sylvia, R., & Hutchison, T. (1985). What makes Ms. Johnson teach? A study of teacher motivation.
Human Relations, 38(9), 841–856. doi:10.1177/001872678503800902.
Taguchi, G., Elsayed, A., & Hsiang, T. (1989). Quality engineering in production systems.
New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company.
Takeda, M. (2010, September 8). An impact of changes in university teachers’employment system:
Teachers’ motivation and views on teacher development. Paper presented at the JACET 49th
annual convention, Miyagi University, Taiwa Campus, Sendai Japan.
Tanaka, T., Takai, J., Kohyama, T., & Fujihara, T. (1994). Adjustment patterns of international
students in Japan. International Journal of Intercultural Relations, 18(1), 55–75.
Taylor, W. (1986). Organizational culture and administrative leadership in universities. In
T. Sergiovanni & J. Corbally (Eds.), Leadership and organizational culture: New perspectives
on administrative theory and practice (pp. 125–141). Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Taylor, W. (2002). Comparing with caution: Thoughts on aspects of higher education policy and
practice. History of Education, 31(5), 401–411.
Taylor, P. (2008). Being an academic today. In R. Barnett & R. di Napoli (Eds.), Changing identi-
ties in higher education: Voicing perspectives (pp. 27–39). Abingdon: Routledge.
Teichler, U. (1998). Massification: A challenge for institutions of higher education. Tertiary
Education and Management, 4(1), 17–27.
References
183
Tellez, K., & Waxman, H. (2006). A meta-synthesis of qualitative research on effective teaching
practices for english language learners. In J. Norris & L. Ortega (Eds.), Synthesizing research
on language learning and teaching (pp. 245–277). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Publishing Company.
Thomas, G., & James, D. (2006). Reinventing grounded theory: Some questions about theory,
ground and discovery. British Educational Research Journal, 32(6), 767–795.
Titscher, S., Meyer, M., Wodak, R., & Vetter, S. (2000). Methods of text and discourse analysis.
Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Tjeldvoll,A. (1996). Recent developments in Scandinavian higher education. International Higher
Education, (6), 13–14. https://www.bc.edu/content/bc/research/cihe/ihe/issues/1996.html
Tobenkin, D. (2007). No cookie cutter approach. International Educator, 16(1), 24–32.
Tobenkin, D. (2008). Degrees of success. International Educator, 17(3), 36.
Trakman, L. (2008). Modelling University Governance. Higher Education Quarterly, 62(1–2), 63.
Tran, L. (2009). Making visible ‘Hidden’intentions and potential choices: International students in
intercultural communication. Language and Intercultural Communication, 9(4), 271–284.
Trigwell, K., Martin, E., Benjamin, J., & Prosser, M. (2000). Scholarship of teaching: A model.
Higher Education Research & Development, 19(2), 155–168.
Trombley, W. (2003, Winter). The rising price of higher education. College Affordability in
Jeopardy: A Special Supplement to National Crosstalk. The National Center for Public Policy
and Higher Education. http://www.highereducation.org/reports/affordability_supplement/
affordability_1.shtml. Accessed 4 Jan 2010.
Trow, M. (1972). The expansion and transformation of higher education. International Review of
Education, 18, 61–84.
Trow, M. (1996). Trust, markets and accountability in higher education: A comparative perspec-
tive. Higher Education Policy, 9, 309–324. doi:10.1057/palgrave.hep.8380051.
Tuchman, G. (2009). Wannabe U: Inside the Corporate University. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Turner, R. (2009). Role taking: Process versus conformity. In D. Brissett & C. Edgley (Eds.), Life
as theater: A dramaturgical sourcebook (3rd ed., pp. 85–100). New Brunswick: Transaction
Publishers.
Twitchell, J. (2004). Branded nation: The marketing of Megachurch, College, Inc., and
Museumworld. New York: Simon & Schuster.
Tyagi, R., Moore, L., & Taylor, B. (1988).A decision support system for funds management in a Public
University: Special focus article. Operations Research, 36(6), 864–881. doi:10.1287/opre.36.6.864.
Van Maanen, J. (1988). Tales of the field: On writing ethnography (Chicago guides to writing, edit-
ing, and publishing). Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Van Maanen, J., & Kolb, D. (1982). The professional apprentice: Observations on fieldwork roles
in two organizational settings (Working Paper (Sloan School of Management, MIT), pp. 1–45).
Cambridge, MA: Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Van Maanen, J., Dabbs, J., & Faulkner, R. (1982). Varieties of qualitative research. Beverly Hills:
Sage.
Varghese, M., Morgan, B., Johnston, B., & Johnson, K. (2005). Theorizing language teacher identity:
Three perspectives and beyond. Journal of Language, Identity & Education, 4(1), 21–44.
Wade, R. (2004). Is globalization reducting poverty and inequality? World Development, 32(4),
567–589.
Walsh-Bowers, R. (1999). Fundamentalism in psychological science. Psychology of Women
Quarterly, 23(2), 375–392. doi:10.1111/j.1471-6402.1999.tb00368.x.
Warschauer, M., & Healey, D. (1998). Computers and language learning: An overview. Language
Teaching, 31(02), 57–71. doi:10.1017/S0261444800012970.
Washburn, J. (2005). University, Inc.: The corporate corruption of American higher education.
New York: Basic Books.
Watt, D., Roessingh, H., & Bosetti, L. (1996). Success and failure: Stories of ESL students’educa-
tional and cultural adjustment to high school. Urban Education, 31(2), 199–221.
Welle-Strand, A. (2000). Knowledge production, service and quality: Higher education tensions in
Norway. Quality in Higher Education, 6(3), 219–230.
References
184
Whitchurch, C. (2008). Shifting identities and blurring boundaries: The emergence of ‘Third Space’
professionals in UK higher education. Higher Education Quarterly, 62(4), 377–396.
Whitchurch, C. (2009a). Progressing professional careers in UK higher education. Perspectives:
Policy and Practice in Higher Education, 13(1), 3–10.
Whitchurch, C. (2009b). The rise of the blended professional in higher education: A comparison
between the United Kingdom. Australia and the United States Higher Education, 58(3), 407–418.
White, A. D. (1904/2007). Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White (Vol. 1). Charleston:
BiblioBazaar.
Wiers-Jenssen, J., Stensaker, B., & Grøgaard, J. (2002). Student satisfaction: Towards an empirical
deconstruction of the concept. Quality in Higher Education, 8(2), 183–195.
Wildy, H., & Louden, W. (2000). School restructuring and the dilemmas of principals’ work.
Educational Management Administration & Leadership, 28(2), 173–184. doi:10.1177/02632
11x000282006.
Wilensky, H., & Edwards, H. (1959). The skidder: Ideological adjustments of downward mobile
workers. American Sociological Review, 24(2), 215–231.
Williams, G. (2003). The enterprising university: Reform, excellence, and equity. Milton Keynes:
Open University Press.
Wood, D. (2010). TOEIC materials and preparation questions: Interview with an ETS representa-
tive. The Language Teacher, 34(6), 41–45.
Woolgar, L. (2007). New institutional policies for university-industry links in Japan. Research
Policy, 36(8), 1261–1274. doi:10.1016/j.respol.2007.04.010.
Wrench, A., Garrett, R., & King, S. (2012). Guessing where the goal posts are: Managing health
and well-being during the transition to university studies. Journal ofYouth Studies, 16(6), 730–
746. doi:10.1080/13676261.2012.744814.
Wuest, J. (1995). Feminist grounded theory: An exploration of the congruency and tensions
between two traditions in knowledge discovery. Qualitative Health Research, 5(1), 125–137.
doi:10.1177/104973239500500109.
Wuest, J. (2000). Negotiating with helping systems: An example of grounded theory evolving through
emergent fit. Qualitative Health Research, 10(1), 51–70. doi:10.1177/104973200129118246.
Yamamoto, K. (2004). Corporatization of national universities in Japan: Revolution for governance
or rhetoric for downsizing? Financial Accountability & Management, 20(2), 153–181.
Yamanoi, A. (2008). A review of and prospect for research on the academic profession. Higher
Education Research in Japan, 5, 27–44.
Yang, R. (2003). Globalisation and higher education development:A critical analysis. International
Review of Education, 49(3–4), 269–291.
Yoda, T., & Harootunian, H. (2006). Japan after Japan: Social and cultural life from the
recessionary 1990s to the present. Durham: Duke University Press.
Yonezawa, A. (2002). The quality assurance system and market forces in Japanese higher educa-
tion. Higher Education, 43(2), 127–139.
Yonezawa, A. (2007). Stability Amidst a storm of evaluation: Policy trends and practice in higher
education evaluation in Japan. In A. Cavalli (Ed.), Quality assessment for higher education in
Europe (pp. 95–103). London: Portland Press.
Yoshida, K. (1994). The Deming approach to education: A comparative study of the USA and
Japan. International Journal of Educational Management, 8(5), 29–40.
Yūki, A. (2012, April 24). University reform and the new basic act on education. Nippon.Com:
Your doorway to Japan. http://www.nippon.com/en/in-depth/a00603/. Accessed 5 Feb 2014.
Zeller, N., & Farmer, F. (1999). “Catchy, clever titles are not acceptable”: Style, APA, and
qualitative reporting. International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, 12(1), 3–19.
doi:10.1080/095183999236303.
Zimbardo, P., Maslach, C., & Haney, C. (2000). Reflection on the Stanford Prison experiment:
Genesis, transformations, consequences. In T. Blass (Ed.), Obedience to authority: Current
perspectives on the Milgram paradigm (pp. 193–238). Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum.
References
