Figure 4(a), since p is external to R – not in regard to time, but by virtue of
counterfactuality.
(5) a. She’s at the wedding, as well she should be.
b. She’s here because she must be.
c. She should be at the wedding, but she isn’t.
d. She could be at the wedding if she wanted.
e. She would be at the wedding if she could.
3.2 Eﬀective control
With eﬀective modals, the modal force consists in something more than the
striving for knowledge by the subject of conception. It is objective in the sense
of being aimed at inﬂuencing (not just apprehending) the evolution of reality.
The control being sought is likewise objective rather than subjective: incorpora-
tion of the target process in reality itself (not just the conception of reality).Who,
then, is the controller? There is no single or simple answer to this question. A
schematic characterization, valid for all instances, is limited to what is shown
in Figure 4(a). All we can say in general is that some kind of force, impetus, or
potency tends toward the target’s realization. This potency varies greatly in
regard to its locus, strength, and level of manifestation.
Two factors in the locus of the potency are its source and its target. While
these can basically be identiﬁed as the controller and the target process, a ﬁner-
grained analysis reveals certain subtleties. Central issues include the extent
to which the source and target can be localized, as well as the extent of their
objectivity.
In CG, the terms subjective and objective are understood as pertaining to
the subject and object of conception. Their linguistic application pertains to the
canonical “viewing arrangement” for the apprehension of expressions, repre-
sented in Figure 5. The speaker and hearer function as subjects of conception.
Through their interaction in the ground, they achieve a measure of coordination
in their scope of awareness and directing of attention. The maximal scope of
awareness (MS) includes the ground as well as the objective scene (OS), i.e.
the situation being described. At a given moment, the interlocutors attend to a
certain portion of OS, the immediate scope (IS), and focus their attention on a
particular entity within it, the proﬁle (p) – a thing in the case of nominals, an
occurrence (or process) in the case of clauses. The subject/object asymmetry is
Modals: Striving for Control 19
strongest in the canonical circumstance where the objective scene and the
ground are clearly distinct: the proﬁle is maximally prominent as the focused
object of conception, while the interlocutors remain oﬀstage as implicit concep-
tualizing subjects. Usually, though, the distinction is blurred because the ground
ﬁgures to some extent in the situation being talked about. The interlocutors may
then function as objects of description in addition to their tacit role as subjects.
Let us now consider the locus of the modal impetus with respect to its
degree of objectivity. For both the source and the target of eﬀective potency, we
can observe a spectrum of possibilities roughly described in (6). Overall they
range from maximal to minimal objectivity. Maximal objectivity attaches to the
central participants of the relationship proﬁled by a lexical predicate or a ﬁnite
clause, who are made explicit and put onstage as foci of attention. At the other
end of the scale are epistemic modals – lacking eﬀective force, their (non-
eﬀective) potency resides in the subject of conception. The source and target of
eﬀective modals lie in between these two extremes, which are thus parenthe-
sized but included for sake of comparison.
(6) (Focal Participant) > Interlocutor > Speciﬁc/Identiﬁed > Diﬀuse > (None)
A range of options for the source of the modal impetus are exempliﬁed in (7)
and sketched in Figure 6. Examples (a) and (f) represent the endpoints on the
scale of objectivity, with eﬀective modals corresponding to the intermediate
cases. In (a), the lexical predicate (be) able describes an eﬀective control rela-
tionship comparable to that expressed by can, putting it onstage as the proﬁle
of a matrix clause whose complement designates the target event. A dotted
correspondence line identiﬁes the controller as also being the main participant
in this event. Represented by a double arrow, the eﬀective force is only latent:
the control inherent in her being able to program a computer is not now being
Figure 5
20 Ronald W. Langacker
exercised, but merely has that potential. Its source is maximally objective by
virtue of being clearly identiﬁed and highly prominent as the trajector (primary
focal participant) of the proﬁled occurrence (i.e. as clausal subject). At the other
extreme, in (f), the eﬀective controller is minimally objective because there is
none – might is an epistemic modal. It represents the degenerate case of eﬀec-
tive control, the controller having the limiting value (zero) in regard to both
prominence and identiﬁcation. When the last vestige of eﬀective control fades
away, we are left with an epistemic modal, where the only force involved is the
speaker’s striving for knowledge. Because the speaker remains implicit as the
subject of conception, the controller and the force are maximally subjective.
(7) a. She is quite able to program a computer. [clausal subject (lexical
predicate)]
b. She can run a marathon in under four hours. [clausal subject]
c. She must attend the wedding – I insist. [speaker]
d. She may go to the concert, her mother says. [speciﬁc individual]
e. She should be more considerate. [diﬀuse]
f. She might be angry. [speaker (epistemic modal)]
Figure 6
Modals: Striving for Control 21
Examples (b)–(e) illustrate the range of possibilities for eﬀective modals. Re-
spectively, they show that the original source of impetus can be the clausal
subject, the speaker, another speciﬁc individual, or something more diﬀuse that
may or may not be identiﬁable. In the case of (e), for instance, the source might
be the speaker, something less tangible like social expectations, or something
even harder to pin down (e.g. the overall circumstances being such that she
would beneﬁt from being more considerate). In all cases, I take the modal force
as being intermediate in regard to objectivity. On the one hand, it is part of the
objective situation, with potential inﬂuence outside the speaker’s mental realm.
On the other hand, the force has a lesser degree of objectivity than it does with a
lexical predicate like able, ﬁrst because it is not made salient as the clausal pro-
ﬁle, and second, because the controller is usually implicit and often not clearly
delineated.
Various considerations support the claim that the modal force is unproﬁled
in English ﬁnite clauses. It is a special case of the general claim (argued for in
Langacker 2002b) that English grounding elements proﬁle the grounded thing or
process, not the grounding relationship. Reﬂecting its unproﬁled status is the
fact that the interlocutors remain implicit – they participate as subjects (rather
than objects) of conception.3 Another consideration relates to the fact that
English modals belong to a highly grammaticized grounding system. For the
modal force to be unproﬁled is thus in accordance with a general proposal by
Boye and Harder (2009), namely that grammatical (as opposed to lexical) status
is a matter of an element’s meaning being coded as “secondary information”.
One can also make an argument based on the function of ﬁnite clauses as a
means of achieving eﬀective or epistemic control. At the most basic level, they
serve this function by allowing the interlocutors to direct their joint attention to
a particular occurrence (instance of a process type) out of all those conceivable.
A natural proposal, then, is to analyze clauses with modals as aligning with
their function: modals represent the oﬀstage striving for control of the proﬁled
occurrence. This is merely suggestive, however, since eﬀective or epistemic striv-
ing may itself be the focus of interest and attention, put onstage and proﬁled by
predicates like want, able, know, believe, etc.
That a ﬁnite clause proﬁles the grounded process, rather than the grounding
relationship, seems quite evident in the case of tense: we clearly want to say
that She lifted the rock designates the act of lifting, not the relation of temporal
precedence. It is not so evident with modals, owing to their more elaborate con-
ceptual content. And since modal force is essential to the meaning of a clause,
3 This does not preclude their being made overt as part of a larger expression serving to
elaborate on the stance conveyed by a clause, as with I insist in (7)(c).
22 Ronald W. Langacker
one might argue that it has to be proﬁled. By deﬁnition, however, proﬁling is a
matter of reference rather than importance; an expression’s proﬁle is what it
designates, or refers to, not its essential content.4 So it is perfectly coherent to
claim that She must attend the wedding refers to the act of attending – the object
of description and focus of attention – even though the point of the utterance is
to impose the obligation.
Admittedly, the “ability” sense of can is potentially problematic in this
regard. She can lift that rock seems directly parallel to She is able to lift that
rock, which proﬁles eﬀective control localized in the trajector. Such examples
most closely resemble the diachronic source construction, and should perhaps
be analyzed as a vestige of it. I am open to the possibility that they might diﬀer
from other modal uses in regard to proﬁling, or even that the proﬁling of modal
force might in general be a matter of degree. But since can belongs to a cohesive
system of modals grammatically distinct from lexical predicates, I want to
pursue the feasibility of a uniform analysis. I believe, in fact, that such an
analysis is both possible and reasonable. Accordingly, the modal force is shown
as being unproﬁled in Figure 6(b), just as it is in 6(c)–(e).
The ‘ability’ sense of can seems diﬀerent because it is harder to separate the
eﬀective force from the eﬀected occurrence – the ability to perform an action
is inherent in the actor and arguably in the action itself. Since it is not clearly
distinct from the target occurrence, in Figure 6(b) I have shown the eﬀective
force as being within the immediate scope (the general locus of attention). This
does not imply that it is proﬁled, however.5 Its status in 6(b) is perfectly consis-
tent with the general characterization oﬀered for eﬀective modals: the modal
force is somewhere within the objective situation (OS), but it is unproﬁled and
its locus is variable. As special case, then, it can perfectly well inhere in the
clausal subject, making it parallel to a predicate like able apart from proﬁling.
Indeed, the ‘ability’ sense of can shades oﬀ into others in which the modal
force is harder to localize and resembles that of other modals. In (8)(b), physical
ability is less important than lifting and the willingness to do it. In (8)(c), the
control exercised by the house is at most a matter of aﬀordance. And in (8)(d)–
(e) the source of potency is quite diﬀuse, to the extent that can verges on being
epistemic. Still, all these cases do involve eﬀective force (the potential for real-
ization in R, not just RC).
4 Note, for instance, that uncle designates a person (a kind of thing), while its essential content
consists in the kinship relationship between the referent and another individual.
5 Analogously, the kinship relationship falls within the immediate scope of uncle but is not
its proﬁle (the speciﬁc focus of attention). Note that proﬁling is just one kind of attentional
focusing, with a referential function. Nothing prevents the unproﬁled modal force from being
the informational focus, e.g. She CAN lift that rock.
Modals: Striving for Control 23
(8) a. She can lift that rock. X She is able to lift that rock.
b. I can lift that bag, if you like.
c. A house can be destroyed by termites.
d. It can rain in the desert.
e. There can be acrimony in faculty meetings.
Let us now consider the target of eﬀective force. In one sense, the target
can always be identiﬁed as the proﬁled occurrence, eﬀective control consisting
in its realization. But often the force is directed at (and channeled through) a
particular individual who is in some way responsible for its realization. That
individual is also a kind of target, which varies in objectivity as described in
(6). Some examples are given in (9) and sketched in Figure 7. With a lexical
verb like force, as in (a), the source and target of potency are both construed
with maximal objectivity, speciﬁc individuals made prominent as focal partici-
pants in the causal event. The source is coded as (grammatical) subject of the
matrix clause, the target as its object. In contrast to a lexical verb, a modal leaves
the eﬀective force unproﬁled. The source of the potency is variable and may be
indeterminate; it is not necessarily the speaker, who may simply be reporting the
obligation imposed by another individual or just by social expectations.
(9) a. He forced her to attend the wedding. [clausal object (lexical predicate)]
b. You must attend the wedding. [hearer (as clausal subject)]
c. She must attend the wedding. [speciﬁc individual (as clausal subject)]
d. Beer must be served at the wedding. [diﬀuse]
Here, though, our concern is with the target. Commonly the target is the
hearer, as in (b). It may also be another speciﬁc individual, as in (c). In either
case it tends to coincide with the clausal subject, which typically codes the
individual who carries out the proﬁled event and in that sense is responsible
for it. This is merely typical, however. The force may instead be directed at
some unmentioned intermediary (possibly the hearer), who is expected to induce
the occurrence. And sometimes, as in (d), the subject is incapable of responsi-
bility. Especially in such examples, there may in fact be no identiﬁable target –
the target is maximally diﬀuse, hence indistinguishable from the proﬁled occur-
rence itself. As a notational device, I show this in (d) by extending the force
arrow only to the box representing the occurrence as a whole, not to the circle
representing its trajector, as in (a)–(c).
24 Ronald W. Langacker
This subtle notational distinction represents a subtle but important concep-
tual distinction. Causation in general is often vague in regard to whether the
eﬀective force is directed at the caused event as a whole or speciﬁcally at its
controlling participant. With verbs like force, compel, and induce, the target is
normally speciﬁc, whereas cause itself is more ﬂexible. In each case the main
participant in the caused event (its trajector) is coded grammatically as object
of the matrix verb (its landmark), as indicated by the bracketing in (10)(a). The
diﬀerence shows up in (10)(b), where the matrix clause is passivized. The passive
is quite acceptable with force, compel, and induce, but problematic with cause.
The reason, I suggest, is that the causal force is speciﬁcally directed at the object
only in the former, as shown in Figure 8. Since cause is less speciﬁc in this
respect, it has a lesser degree of transitivity, which in English is a major deter-
minant of passivizability (Rice 1987a, 1987b). For the same reason only cause is
fully compatible with objects not interpretable as controllers with respect to the
inﬁnitival complement, as seen in (10)(c)–(d). While the object is focused by
cause as its landmark, it is not construed as the target of force – the target is
diﬀuse (non-distinct from the event as a whole).
Figure 7
Modals: Striving for Control 25
(10) a. I {forced / compelled / induced / caused} her [to attend the wedding].
b. She was {forced / compelled / induced / ??caused} [to attend the
wedding].
c. I {*forced / *compelled / *induced / caused} beer [to be served at the
wedding].
d. I {*forced / *compelled / *induced / caused} there [to be beer at the
wedding].
Figure 8
An analogous distinction can be made for control at the perceptual level. A
sentence like (11)(a) is ambivalent (actually, amtrivalent) in regard to what is
seen. Though often neutralized, the distinctions can be made prosodically, most
clearly in response to a question. The target of perception can be the global situa-
tion, in which case the answer is uttered without a pause. Alternatively, there
are two objects of perception: Sheila and the activity she engages in. Indicating
this duality is a slight hesitation (/) between them. Under a ﬁnal interpretation,
only Sheila is speciﬁcally construed as the perceptual target, the activity func-
tioning merely as the context in which it appears. This is marked by setting oﬀ
the nominal with ﬁnal, falling intonation (↓). These respective options are
sketched in Figure 9, the object(s) of perception being drawn with heavy lines.
Figure 9
(11) a. I saw Sheila working in the yard.
b. A: What did you see?
B: (i) Sheila working in the yard.
(ii) Sheila / working in the yard.
(iii) Sheila↓ / working in the yard.
3.3 Epistemic control
As eﬀective control fades away through attenuation and diﬀusion in its locus, its
epistemic component comes to the fore. The striving for epistemic control occurs
26 Ronald W. Langacker
at the mental level, being aimed at p’s incorporation in a body of accepted
knowledge. The epistemic dominion is thus a conception of reality (RC), as
opposed to reality itself. The modal force is internal to the conceptualizer (C),
an aspect of C’s mental activity.
But who is C? The short answer is that C is the speaker, as shown in Figure 6
(f). By default, the epistemic assessment expressed by might in (7)(f), She might
be angry, is taken as reﬂecting the current speaker’s actual view. But obviously
the short answer greatly oversimpliﬁes matters. In a wide range of cases, use of
a modal to ground a ﬁnite clause does not imply that the speaker subscribes to
the modal assessment. As a general characterization, the conceptualizer invoked
by epistemic modals is a virtual entity not identiﬁed with any particular indi-
vidual; its speciﬁc identity, should it have one, is determined by the overall
context. Particular individuals, including the speaker, can identify with C to
varying degrees, assuming the role of C in making the assessment. From this
perspective, the default situation – where the speaker fully identiﬁes with C –
is just a special case.
In (12) I give a few cases where the speaker produces a ﬁnite clause but does
not subscribe to the modal assessment. The initial clause in (a) is echoic, reﬂect-
ing the hearer’s view rather than the speaker’s. In (b), the adverb perhaps insu-
lates the speaker from the epistemic stance expressed by will; circumstances
warranting the prediction of a US victory can be imagined but are not too likely.
For the judgment expressed by might in the complement clause of (c), the
conceptualizer is identiﬁed as the matrix subject. And in (d), the identity of C
(the source of the idea) is indeterminate.
(12) a. She may be angry, you say. Well, I know for a fact she’s not.
b. Perhaps the US will win the next World Cup.
c. Racquel mistakenly claims that it might rain tomorrow.
d. The idea that I must be jealous is just erroneous.
Of course, the need to distinguish C from the actual speaker is not limited to
epistemic modality, but holds for grounding in general.We see this in (13), where
the speaker rejects the position expressed by grounding in the complement
clause, whether it be a matter of epistemic modality, eﬀective modality, or accep-
tance in RC.
(13) a. It’s not the case that she will be at the wedding. [epistemic modal]
b. It’s not the case that she should be at the wedding. [eﬀective modal]
c. It’s not the case that she was at the wedding. [absence of modal]
Modals: Striving for Control 27
Examples like (12)–(13) involve the striving for epistemic control at a higher
level, with a special kind of target. In the case of clausal grounding, the target is
an occurrence (i.e. an event or situation). The grounding of an occurrence pro-
duces a ﬁnite clause, which expresses a proposition. Because it incorporates
both an occurrence and an assessment of it, a proposition is necessarily
abstract: it is not itself the sort of thing that occurs, nor can it be caused, so it
is not per se subject to eﬀective control. It can however be apprehended and
assessed for validity, so it is subject to epistemic control. Assessing its validity
constitutes the striving for control – the potential phase of the control cycle – at
this level. Accepting it as valid (i.e. as being in conformity with reality) con-
stitutes the action phase. The result phase ﬁnds the target proposition (P) estab-
lished in the conceptualizer’s epistemic dominion, which at this level consists in
a set of propositions (grounded occurrences).
While they cannot per se be caused, propositions can be formulated, enter-
tained, evaluated, and negotiated. Crucially, the same proposition can be enter-
tained by multiple conceptualizers, who may well disagree in their assessment
of its validity. And because its acceptance is at issue, a given conceptualizer
may or may not subscribe to the judgment expressed by clausal grounding.
Hence the virtual conceptualizer invoked by clausal grounding – internal to a
proposition – has to be distinguished from an external conceptualizer who
apprehends the proposition and assesses its validity. Only as a special case
does the latter fully identify with the former.
A clear understanding of these complexities is essential for conceptual,
semantic, and grammatical analysis. For present purposes, we need to dis-
tinguish at least three conceptualizers and levels of assessment. Unsubscripted
C will indicate the virtual conceptualizer invoked by clausal grounding. C0 will
indicate the current speaker, the “original” conceptualizer who apprehends the
others as well as the nature of their conceptions. Additional conceptualizers
(notably onstage participants) can then be represented as C1, C2, etc. Let me
also underscore the notational distinction between p, a proﬁled process (or
occurrence), and P, the proposition derived from a process by grounding.
Still, these layers of complexity are best thought of as optional elaborations
of a simpler, baseline situation where only one level of assessment comes
into play (Langacker 2012). In this default situation, the speaker is simply
making a statement about an occurrence; its status as a proposition subject
to evaluation and negotiation by other conceptualizers remains in the back-
ground.6 So there is not yet any basis for distinguishing C and C0: as shown in
6 In the baseline situation, it remains in the background for the hearer as well. The hearer is
merely expected to apprehend the expression, resulting in momentary alignment of the inter-
locutors’ scope of awareness and focus of attention. Explicitly viewing it as a proposition to be
assessed and negotiated constitutes an elaboration of the baseline situation.
28 Ronald W. Langacker
Figure 10(a), the grounding of p reﬂects the speaker’s actual assessment. Note
that the dashed arrow is neutral as to the type of assessment involved; it may
indicate acceptance in RC (as in the example She is angry), but it can also stand
for eﬀective or epistemic striving (She should be angry; She may be angry).
Figure 10
The distinction between C and C0 becomes signiﬁcant with the addition of an
insulating adverb like perhaps. It establishes some “distance” between the assess-
ment conveyed by grounding and the speaker’s actual assessment. Without
necessarily disagreeing with C’s position, the adverb gives explicit indication
that the speaker views it from “outside” as a proposition requiring evaluation,
and that its outcome is not assured. In other words, perhaps corresponds to the
potential phase of the epistemic control cycle for propositions. If perhaps repre-
sents the potential phase, certainly represents the result phase: the speaker
accepts P as valid. This acceptance has the consequence that C0 subscribes to
the stance of C in regard to p. To this extent, at least, C0 identiﬁes with C, as
indicated by the dotted line in Figure 10(c).
Adverbs like perhaps and certainly do not imply a conceptualizer other than
C and C0 (although they may allow this interpretation). By contrast, many lexical
predicates do have this feature, notably predicates of “propositional attitude”.
Two such cases are suspect and (be) certain, which introduce an additional con-
ceptualizer, C1, as their trajector. Like perhaps and certainly, they correspond
respectively to the potential and result phases of the epistemic control cycle.
But unlike the adverbs, they proﬁle the process of epistemic assessment (in this
case, a stable situation), and this process can be grounded to form a ﬁnite
clause – the matrix clause, with the proposition as its complement. In Figure 11
Modals: Striving for Control 29
(a)–(b), I have shown this as a baseline clause, where the grounding concep-
tualizer is simply the speaker (C0). In both cases, the speaker accepts the matrix
occurrence as real (there being no modal). However, the speaker need not
subscribe to the grounding assessment of the complement. In stating He sus-
pects she is angry or He is certain she is angry, the speaker is not committing to
the view that she actually is.
Figure 11
With suspect in 11(a), the three conceptualizers are clearly distinct. Unlike C, C1
has not yet accepted her anger as being real, and the speaker’s position in this
regard is left unspeciﬁed. The situation is diﬀerent in 11(b) because certain is a
result-phase predicate, indicating that C1 accepts the complement proposition
(P1) as being valid. Accepting P1 as valid implies that C1 identiﬁes with C in
accepting p (her anger) as being real. The same holds in 11(c), with realize: by
judging P1 to be valid, C1 eﬀectively assumes the role of C in the complement.
Here, though, the speaker also identiﬁes with C. Realize is a factive predicate
(Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1970), i.e. it presupposes the truth of its complement.
What this amounts to, in the present perspective, is that the identiﬁcation of C0
with C is included as an aspect of its meaning. Thus C, C0, and C1 all have the
same stance in regard to p.
4 Transparency
An important feature of language design is a kind of “fractal” arrangement,
where analogous phenomena occur at multiple levels of semantic and gram-
matical organization. In regard to eﬀective and epistemic control, we have
noted certain parallels in the distinctions made by clausal grounding and, at a
higher level, by complementation and matrix predicates. Also manifested at
both levels is the phenomenon known as “raising”, for which a more neutral
term is transparency.
30 Ronald W. Langacker
4.1 The phenomenon
In certain non-ﬁnite complement constructions, the matrix clause exhibits trans-
parency in the sense that it imposes no restrictions on what can appear as its
subject or, alternatively, as its object: anything allowable as the subject of the
complement can instead appear, in lieu of the complement, as subject or object
of the matrix. For instance, the subjects in (14) are not compatible with likely
outside this construction (*There is likely; *Oﬀense is likely). They are however
appropriate as subject of the complement clause, reﬂecting the existential there
construction (There will be beer at the wedding) and the passivized lexical phrase
take oﬀense at (Oﬀense will be taken at her remarks). Similarly, the objects in (15)
are not compatible with expect outside this construction (*He expected there;
*He expected oﬀense). Once more they owe their appearance to their appro-
priateness as complement subject.
(14) Subject complements
a. There is likely [to be beer at the wedding].
(cf. *There is likely; [That there will be beer at the wedding] is likely.)
b. Oﬀense is likely [to be taken at her remarks].
(cf. *Oﬀense is likely; [That oﬀense will be taken at her remarks]
is likely.)
(15) Object complements
a. He expected there [to be beer at the wedding].
(cf. *He expected there; He expected [that there would be beer at
the wedding].)
b. He expected oﬀense [to be taken at her remarks].
(cf. *He expected oﬀense; He expected [that oﬀense would be taken at
her remarks].)
In a derivational framework, an obvious approach is to posit a rule that raises
the complement subject into the matrix clause, where it assumes the comple-
ment’s grammatical role; devoid of a subject, the complement takes inﬁnitival
form and is moved to ﬁnal position (Postal 1974). Though it has a certain ele-
gance, a movement analysis is problematic from both the descriptive and theo-
retical standpoints. A non-derivational CG alternative was outlined in Langacker
1995.
The main point here is that English modals exhibit a comparable trans-
parency. As shown in (16), a modal imposes no restrictions on a subject that
Modals: Striving for Control 31
appears with it, allowing anything permissible as subject of the grounded verb.
Observe that this is true for both eﬀective and epistemic modals, so trans-
parency cannot be taken as the basis for distinguishing them.
(16) Modal transparency
a. Eﬀective: Should there be beer at the wedding? Yes, there should.
b. Epistemic: Will oﬀense be taken at her remarks? Yes, it will.
4.2 Lexical predicates
In standard accounts, raising predicates are distinguished from control predi-
cates, which do not show transparency. So in contrast to raising predicates such
as likely and expect, the control predicates able and persuade impose their own
restrictions on what can appear as their subject or object, as seen in (17). Rather
than being “raised” into the matrix clause, the nominal in question is analyzed
as being its “true”, “logical”, “underlying”, or “base-generated” subject or object.
Hence sentences that appear to be structurally parallel are given very diﬀerent
grammatical analyses, as shown in (18). With a control verb like persuade, the
surface object is also the underlying object, and the coindexed complement
subject is either deleted (“equi-NP deletion”) or is simply taken to be a pro
form with no phonological realization. By contrast, the surface object of expect
is raised from its underlying position as complement subject.
(17) a. *There is able [to be beer at the wedding].
b. *Oﬀense is able [to be taken at her remarks].
c. *He persuaded there [to be beer at the wedding].
d. *He persuaded oﬀense [to be taken at her remarks].
(18) a. Control: she persuaded himi [hei resign] % she persuaded himi
[Øi to resign]
b. Raising: she expected [he resign] % she expected him [to resign]
In the CG analysis, on the other hand, the evident grammatical parallelism
of “control” and “raising” constructions is accepted at face value. There being
no derivations from underlying structures, the “surface” subject or object is
indeed the “true” subject or object of the matrix predicate. The transparency of
32 Ronald W. Langacker
certain predicates is a consequence of their meaning. The key factor is eﬀective
control in the matrix clause: “raising” predicates represent the limiting case
where the referent of the pivot nominal – the one with a role in both clauses –
engages in no such relations.
We can usefully start by considering a path of semantic extension involving
verbs like promise and threaten (Traugott 1993; Verhagen 2000). Prototypically,
promise designates a linguistically manifested social act in which the actor
commits to a subsequent course of action, one viewed positively by the person
to whom the commitment is made. In this sense, exempliﬁed in (19)(a), the
subject has an eﬀective role in the matrix clause, as the locus of an impetus
tending toward realization of the complement event. And because it involves a
social interaction, this sense of promise allows overt expression of the promisee.
The subject’s eﬀective role is diminished in the other examples, which no longer
proﬁle an action or commitment on its part. Instead they designate an epistemic
assessment by an implied conceptualizer concerning the likelihood of the com-
plement event’s realization. In (b) the subject’s eﬀective role is greatly attenuated
but not altogether absent, the assessment being based on observed properties
of the subject which have causal inﬂuence with respect to the event. But in (c),
the abstract subject there has no such inﬂuence. The extended verbal mean-
ing represents the limiting case of eﬀective subject control (none), resulting in
transparency.
(19) a. She promised (him) to attend the wedding. [eﬀective]
b. She promises (*him) to become a great musician. [eﬀective/epistemic]
c. There promises (*him) to be a brighter future ahead. [epistemic]
The diagrams in Figure 12 show this in more detail. In its prototypical sense,
promise proﬁles an eﬀective verbal act of commitment on the part of its trajector
(tr), the matrix subject. A double arrow represents the eﬀective force associated
with this act, a certain impetus toward the complement event’s occurrence.
Since the trajector is also the one who will carry out the act, the subject is the
pivot (its referent having a role in both clauses). C is a conceptualizer, the person
to whom the commitment is made. Based on this commitment, C is able to make
an epistemic assessment with the complement event as its target: with varying
degrees of conﬁdence, C can project its future realization. The plus sign indi-
cates the positive emotive import of this prospect for the promisee. And since
the pivot does indeed engage in a relation of eﬀective control in the matrix
clause, promise is not transparent with this meaning: the subject has to be
capable of making a promise. Thus one cannot say *There promises him to be a
brighter future ahead.
Modals: Striving for Control 33
Figure 12
In the other two senses, the proﬁle shifts to C’s epistemic assessment, which
is immanent (but non-salient) in the basic meaning. The trajector no longer
engages in a social act, its active role (if any) being conﬁned to the one it has
in the complement process. But it may still have some eﬀective inﬂuence on
the realization of that process. In sense (b), C’s assessment is based primarily
on observed properties of the trajector that should contribute to its realization.
To some extent the trajector has passive control of the target event via these
aﬀordances. The source of the eﬀective potency is however harder to pin down
than in the prototype; it is more diﬀuse, being centered on the trajector but not
speciﬁcally identiﬁed with it.
Of course, the contributing factors are not limited to properties of the sub-
ject. They also include speciﬁc and more general circumstances, whose impor-
tance as a basis for assessment can rival or surpass the trajector’s. And as the
source of potency becomes more and more diﬀuse, we eventually reach the
stage where the trajector per se no longer contributes – the assessment is based
on C’s awareness of the global circumstances. At this stage, where eﬀective
inﬂuence cannot be localized, we have the situation in Figure 12(c): the only
control at issue is epistemic control on the part of C, who assesses the likelihood
of the complement event’s realization. In terms of eﬀective control, the subject
has reached the zero end of the scale; it is not at all a locus of potency, but
merely a reference point for C in making the epistemic judgment. Hence the
trajector’s role in the matrix clause is reduced to the bare minimum, that of
serving as a point of access for apprehending the complement process.
When the pivot’s role is reduced to this extent, the matrix predicate is trans-
parent. Anything can serve as a point of access, since nothing more is involved
than mental contact. Thus the only restrictions on the matrix subject stem from
its role in the complement. It is not an accident that it functions as trajector of
the complement: this follows from the CG characterization of trajector as initial
reference point in mentally accessing a proﬁled relationship. As a consequence,
34 Ronald W. Langacker
anything allowable as complement subject (trajector) can also appear as subject
of the matrix clause, even the abstract location proﬁled by existential there, as
in (19)(c).
Promise is not an isolated case. It is quite common for “control” predicates
to develop into “raising” predicates through a loss of eﬀective control involving
the pivot (Langacker 1999b). But irrespective of their diachronic source, predi-
cates exhibit transparency when the pivot is not engaged in relations of eﬀective
control in the matrix clause.
For example, we see in (20) that able functions as a control predicate, and
likely as a raising predicate. These are in fact directly comparable to eﬀective
and epistemic promise in relevant respects, as shown in Figure 13. Since able
describes ability, it is limited to subjects plausibly viewed as having this kind
of potency; beer and existential there are thus excluded. They are however
perfectly acceptable as the subject of likely, whose trajector has no eﬀective role
in the matrix clause. As a predicate of epistemic assessment, likely invokes a
conceptualizer (though not as a focused participant). C’s assessment represents
a striving for control, but only at the mental level; it has no inﬂuence on the
evolution of reality itself. Thus C makes mental contact with the pivot, which
serves as point of access to the complement, but does not engage it at the eﬀec-
tive level. It is not precluded that the assessment might be based on properties
(aﬀordances) of the subject – e.g. her likelihood of attending the wedding might
hinge on her dependability and known desire to attend – but this is not re-
quired. Likely is therefore transparent.
(20) a. She was able to attend the wedding.
b. *Beer was able to be served at the wedding.
c. *There is able to be beer at the wedding.
d. She is likely to attend the wedding.
e. Beer is likely to be served at the wedding.
f. There is likely to be beer at the wedding.
Figure 13
Modals: Striving for Control 35
Likely illustrates “raising” from a subject complement. What this means, from
the CG standpoint, is that the pivot functions as trajector of the matrix predi-
cate. But raising is also observed with object complements, in which case the
pivot functions as the matrix landmark (lm). For object complements, persuade
and expect are standard examples of control and raising predicates. Persuade is
not transparent because its landmark, the clausal object, does engage in eﬀec-
tive relationships. As shown in Figure 14(a), its landmark actually engages in
two such relations: it is both the target of social force and a locus of subsequent
intention, so it has to be capable of both. A person qualiﬁes, but existential
there does not. By contrast, expect is transparent because its landmark has no
eﬀective involvement in the matrix clause. It proﬁles a relationship that is only
epistemic: the subject’s expectation of the complement event occurring does not
per se have any inﬂuence in this regard. So rather than being a target of eﬀective
force, the pivot functions only as point of access for the conception of that
event. Once more, it is not precluded that the pivot might have some eﬀective
potency, e.g. the expectation in (21)(c) could be based on her known sense of
duty. But since this is not required, even existential there is permitted as matrix
object.
(21) a. He persuaded her to attend the wedding.
b. *He persuaded there to be beer at the wedding.
c. He expected her to attend the wedding.
d. He expected there to be beer at the wedding.
Figure 14
Eﬀective force does not itself prevent the matrix predicate from showing trans-
parency. The key factor is whether that force engages the pivot. Recall that force
and cause diﬀer in this regard, as was shown in Figure 8: with the former, the
causal force is speciﬁcally directed at the pivot (the matrix landmark and com-
plement trajector); but with cause the target of force is diﬀuse, hence non-dis-
tinct from the complement event. Thus only cause is transparent: He {caused /
*forced} there to be beer at the wedding.
36 Ronald W. Langacker
4.3 Transparency of modals
Let us now address the English modals. To some extent, the relation between a
modal and the verb it grounds is analogous to the relation between a matrix
predicate and its complement. A feature common to modals and many matrix
predicates is the semantic importance of eﬀective force and epistemic assess-
ment. This force or assessment pertains to a schematic process that the comple-
ment or grounded verb spells out explicitly in more detail. One diﬀerence, in the
CG analysis, is that the force or assessment is unproﬁled in the case of modals,
which instead proﬁle the grounded process. As a consequence, the modal and
grounded verb proﬁle the same occurrence, characterized at diﬀerent levels of
speciﬁcity. And since they proﬁle the same occurrence, they have the same
trajector – expressed by the clausal subject – which is thus a kind of pivot.
As noted in (16), modals exhibit transparency by allowing as their subject
anything permissible as subject of the grounded verb. Otherwise stated, they do
not themselve impose restrictions on the pivot nominal. Modals are transparent
for the same reason that raising predicates are: the relations of eﬀective control
they introduce do not engage the pivot. This is not to deny that they do engage
the pivot in certain modal uses, and these are non-transparent. But all the
modals have transparent uses where the pivot is not so engaged.
We have already surveyed the range of options for eﬀective control with
English modals. By abstracting relevant features from Figures 6 and 7, we obtain
the four basic conﬁgurations in Figure 15. Double arrows stand for eﬀective
force, and dashed arrows for epistemic assessment. The latter ﬁgures to some
extent in all the modals, despite being overshadowed by the former whenever
present. Even the ability sense of can, as in She can lift that rock, has an implicit
epistemic component: if she is able to lift the rock, it is possible that she will.
Epistemic modals represent the limiting case where eﬀective inﬂuence fades
away entirely, allowing epistemic assessment to emerge in all its glory. There
being no eﬀective force, it cannot engage the pivot, so epistemic modals are
consistently transparent.
Figure 15
Modals: Striving for Control 37
With eﬀective modals, the pivot can either be the source of potency, its target, or
neither. Examples of the former include the ability sense of can and certain uses
of shall and will (e.g. I shall return!). All the eﬀective modals allow the pivot
(clausal subject) to be construed as the target of force (e.g. You must help
them). So interpreted, they are non-transparent. Additionally, however, they all
permit the reading in 15(c), where the pivot is engaged as neither source nor
target. Under this interpretation they are all transparent.
The range of options is exempliﬁed in (22), for can. The pivot (clausal sub-
ject) can be the source of potency in either the active sense of ability (a) or the
weaker sense of aﬀordance (b). When can indicates permission, the subject is
commonly the target (c). But it need not be, in which case the reading is trans-
parent (d), as attested by the possibility of there (e). I could be convinced that
can is never purely epistemic. Examples like (22)(f), which verge on being epis-
temic, might instead be regarded as cases of aﬀordance where the source is
diﬀuse and not easily identiﬁable. Be that as it may, from there it is just a small
step to the epistemic could (g).
(22) a. She can lift that rock. [pivot as eﬀective source, ability]
b. The door can be opened now – it’s been ﬁxed. [pivot as eﬀective source,
aﬀordance]
c. You can open the door now, if you like. [pivot as eﬀective target,
permission]
d. The door can be opened now – the meeting is over. [transparent,
permission]
e. There can be beer at the party, since you insist. [transparent,
permission]
f. There can be snow next month. [transparent, diﬀuse aﬀordance]
g. There could be snow next month. [transparent, epistemic]
5 Grammatical status
What is the grammatical status of modal elements, in English or other lan-
guages? Do they qualify as grounding elements? Are they main or auxiliary
verbs? Posing such questions tends not to be very useful, since key notions like
“modal”, “grounding”, and “auxiliary” are neither clearly deﬁned nor well
38 Ronald W. Langacker
understood. It cannot be presumed that standard terms of this sort correspond
to natural, well-delimited linguistic categories waiting to be discovered; not
only does their range of application depend on how we deﬁne them, but their
optimal characterization will likely show them to be matters of degree. More
important than categorization is an in-depth analytical understanding suﬃcient
for describing the full spectrum of cases: the semantic and grammatical properties
of particular cases, as well as how they compare to one another.
5.1 The place of English modals
Clauses are basic units of discourse that allow interlocutors to jointly focus atten-
tion on actual and imagined occurrences. For a clause to serve an epistemic
function, contributing to one’s knowledge of reality, it must give some indica-
tion of how the occurrence it proﬁles relates to the ground (the interlocutors,
the speech event, and their immediate circumstances). As employed in CG, the
term grounding refers to certain highly grammaticized, clause-internal means
of doing so, English tense and modals being a prime example. They produce a
ﬁnite clause with potential epistemic import: it both describes an occurrence
and situates it vis-à-vis the speaker’s conception of reality (the established
history of occurrences). But an English-type system is just one linguistic option
for relating occurrences to the ground. It lies toward one end of a spectrum
representing various degrees of structural and conceptual elaboration. Found at
the other end are complex sentences with predicates of propositional attitude
taking ﬁnite clauses as complements.
The place of English modals is best understood in the context of a func-
tional characterization that posits multiple levels, or strata, involving progres-
sively greater complexity (Langacker 2012). The initial stratum is minimally
complex, a baseline that is elaborated step by step to form the other strata;
since each incorporates its predecessor, they can be thought of as successive
layers around an inner core (the baseline). In coordinated fashion, each layer
introduces further conceptual and structural complexity: the additional struc-
tural options accommodate the more elaborate conceptions, which in turn pro-
vide the basis for their meanings.
The global epistemic function of ﬁnite clauses decomposes into the more
speciﬁc functions of directing attention to an occurrence and relating it to the
ground. The baseline for ﬁnite clauses comprises the minimum needed for
each. Since possible occurrences vary indeﬁnitely, evoking one requires explicit
symbolic description – minimally, a predicate (to specify a process type) and
one or more nominals (to specify its focal participants). Grounding requires less
Modals: Striving for Control 39
because the options are far more limited. And indeed, nothing at all is required
in a circumstance plausibly identiﬁed as the baseline viewing arrangement,
where the epistemic status of the proﬁled occurrence is not an issue. But as the
epistemic possibilities become more varied and more complex, to accommodate
a wider range of viewing circumstances, conceptual elaboration of the ground-
ing system is accompanied by its formal elaboration.
The baseline viewing arrangement represents a special case of the canonical
viewing arrangement in Figure 5, where the interlocutors, as oﬀstage subjects of
conception, focus their attention on some entity (the proﬁle) within the objective
scene. In the baseline arrangement, the interlocutors are together in a ﬁxed
location, their activity consisting in the observation and description of actual
occurrences. Baseline speech consists of simple descriptive statements, aimed
at nothing more than intersubjective awareness and the joint focusing of atten-
tion. There is no indication of speech acts or illocutionary force, since the base-
line arrangement includes and deﬁnes a minimal speech act (statement) with
respect to which all the others constitute elaborations. Likewise, there is no
explicit indication of epistemic status, since that too is inherent in the viewing
arrangement: the descriptions pertain to actual, observed occurrences.
Explicit grounding being superﬂuous, a baseline clause consists of nothing
more than a predicate and its nominal arguments. It is however grounded,
because the baseline viewing arrangement is part of the conceptual substrate
supporting its meaning (Langacker 2008). As shown in Figure 16(a), this implicit
baseline grounding presupposes that the proﬁled occurrence is part of reality.
Indeed, this initial stratum – limited to the description of observed occurrences –
aﬀords no basis for distinguishing reality (R) and a reality conception (RC). It is
unlikely that any language would content itself with implicit grounding of this
sort. But some languages do have baseline expressions, reﬂecting what I take to
be the core stratum within a more elaborate grounding system. In Hopi, for
instance, a clause with no explicit grounding locates the proﬁled occurrence in
present or past reality: Pooko qöötsa (dog white) ‘The dog is white’; Pam wari
(he run) ‘He ran’.
While this arrangement is too simplistic for baseline expressions to be typical,
it can certainly be argued that statements describing real occurrences represent
the unmarked situation, departures from which tend to be marked explicitly. Of
interest here are departures pertaining to the status of the proﬁled occurrence.
Along this axis, a minimal elaboration consists in making distinctions within
reality. One possibility is to distinguish between occurrences on the basis of
whether or not they are directly observed, producing an incipient evidential
system. An alternative, the ﬁrst step toward an epistemic system (Cornillie 2007),
distinguishes occurrences in immediate experience from those accessed via
40 Ronald W. Langacker
memory. Because we experience only the present and can only recall the
past, this epistemic distinction is tantamount to a temporal one. Apart from
the anomaly of third-person singular -s, the English tense system neatly reﬂects
this stratum: to locate an occurrence in immediate reality (IR) the verb is left
uninﬂected (e.g. They like her); whereas overt marking (“past tense” inﬂection)
indicates the greater epistemic distance of elements outside IR, as in Figure
16(b).
In another departure from the baseline arrangement, English tense is ob-
livious to whether the grounded occurrence is directly observed or known through
other means. This more expansive notion of reality – characterized in terms of
knowledge rather than direct observation – foreshadows the clear distinction,
at the next stratum, between reality (R) and one’s conception of reality (RC).
It consists in the recognition that we have only partial and limited access to
what transpires. A crucial limitation is that we have no prior knowledge of the
future; reality continues to “grow” through the accretion of new occurrences,
but much of what will eventually constitute it is currently inaccessible. With
varying degrees of conﬁdence, however, we can make certain projections based
on what has already been established. While it is no substitute for omniscience,
this epistemic striving aﬀords at least a measure of control, which is better than
none at all.
One means of handling this level of epistemic complexity is by incorporat-
ing modals in the clausal grounding system. As shown in Figure 16(c), the pro-
cess grounded by a modal lies outside RC but is nonetheless situated with
respect to it. By indicating various kinds and degrees of potentiality, a gram-
maticized modal system allows unrealized occurrences to be brought at least
partially under epistemic control. English, of course, is a case in point. The
special grammatical properties of core modals gives clear evidence that they
Figure 16
Modals: Striving for Control 41
combine with tense to form a grammaticized, closely integrated grounding
system (Langacker 2012). Note in particular that the immediate/non-immediate
opposition is manifested on a modal (when present) rather than the lexical
verb: may vs. might, can vs. could, will vs. would, shall vs. should.7 The inﬂected
forms are at best only partially analyzable, either morphologically or semanti-
cally. And the modals have all developed specialized meanings and carved out
their own semantic niche.
The non-immediate modals (as well as negation) reveal another layer of
conceptual elaboration. Observe that all of them can be used counterfactually:
(23) a. He might have done it if he had wanted to, but he didn’t.
b. He could do it if he wanted to, but he doesn’t.
c. He would do it if he could, but in fact he can’t.
d. He should do it, but he won’t.
Such uses imply an expansion of the “epistemic landscape” to encompass not
only potential occurrences being considered for inclusion in RC, but also those
which lack this potential.8 The non-immediate modals can thus be charac-
terized, schematically, in terms of a path of access through this expanded land-
scape (Langacker 2009: ch. 7). As shown in Figure 16(d), the target occurrence
cannot be accessed directly from RC, i.e. it lies beyond the epistemic “reach” of
a basic modal (may, can, will, or shall). The non-immediate modals provide a
two-step path for reaching it. The second step consists in the modal projection
coded by the basic form (e.g. “possibility” for may, “prediction” for will). But
since the target cannot be projected directly from RC in this manner, one must
ﬁrst invoke an alternative conception of reality – RC' – from which it can. Details
vary greatly: RC' may represent just a slight modiﬁcation of RC or it may be quite
distinct; the implied conceptualizer (C) can be the current speaker (C0) or
another individual, but need not have any speciﬁc identity. The common fea-
ture is simply that the basis for modal projection, RC', does not represent the
speaker’s actual view (RC).
In the last analysis, certain basic linguistic notions are deﬁned in terms of
discourse functions rather than any speciﬁc formal properties. Finite clauses
are characterized by two essential functions: grounding and description of the
grounded process. In English, tense and modals form a cohesive system that
7 For an argument that must simply lacks a non-immediate form, see Langacker 1991: 260.
8 The latter is itself a kind of epistemic control, based on avoidance rather than capture.
42 Ronald W. Langacker
fulﬁlls the grounding function. Hence the force conveyed by a modal does not
constitute the occurrence being described (the clausal referent), but is rather an
aspect of its assessment, an oﬀstage indication of its relation to the ground. Con-
ceivably this is a matter of degree. Nor is it denied that the striving for control
can be put onstage as a proﬁled occurrence by otherwise comparable elements,
in English or other languages; grammaticized modals are not distinguished from
lexical predicates on the basis of conceptual content, but rather on the basis
of their clausal function. In the CG analysis, their oﬀstage grounding function
is reﬂected in their proﬁling: a modal proﬁles the grounded process, not the
grounding relationship. This process, only schematic within the modal, is iden-
tiﬁed with the speciﬁc process designated by the verb it combines with. So
although a modal does qualify as a verb (because it proﬁles a process), it is
part of a single clause which proﬁles just one occurrence.
5.2 A path through other minds
It is helpful to think of grounding in terms of an epistemic path followed by a
conceptualizer in order to “reach” a nominal or clausal referent. By reaching the
target, C controls it at least in the sense of making mental contact with it.
Grounding is achieved when a thing or process instance is singled out and
related to the ground in this fashion.
A grounding path is sometimes indirect, as we saw with non-immediate
modals. Another case is the possessive grounding of nominals, e.g. the waiter’s
necktie, where the conceptualizer invokes one nominal referent (the waiter) as
the ﬁrst step in a path of mental access leading to another (a particular instance
of necktie). Note that there are two levels of grounding and nominal organiza-
tion. At one level, the grounding of waiter singles out an instance of that type.
The resulting nominal is then incorporated in the possessor phrase the waiter’s,
on the basis of which an instance of necktie is singled out, at the higher level.
The direct grounding of waiter allows the indirect grounding of necktie.
A clausal analog of this indirect nominal grounding is found in comple-
mentation, e.g. She is likely to succeed. While the analogy only goes so far, such
expressions are parallel to possessive nominals in relevant respects. By virtue of
being directly grounded, the ﬁnite matrix clause (she is likely) is analogous to
the possessor nominal (the waiter). The inﬁnitival complement (to succeed) is
comparable to the possessed noun (necktie) in that neither is grounded directly.
And in both cases, the grounded element allows the other one to be grounded
indirectly. Just as the waiter lets us access and identify an instance of necktie,
so she is likely lets us access an instance of succeed and relate it epistemically
Modals: Striving for Control 43
to the ground: the matrix both speciﬁes the person who succeeds and assesses
the prospects of this happening.
Inﬁnitival complement constructions represent another stratum of conceptual
and formal elaboration vis-à-vis the baseline. For one thing, they presuppose the
capacity for apprehending complex occurrences whose description requires a
combination of predicates (likely to succeed). Also, predicates such as likely
expand the range of describable occurrences to the sorts of assessments that
ﬁgure in clausal grounding, putting them onstage as the focused object of con-
ception (clausal proﬁle). To the extent that they semantically resemble ground-
ing elements, they provide a periphrastic alternative to the grammaticized ground-
ing system. Thus the biclausal She is likely to succeed is roughly comparable to
She should succeed.
Periphrastic expressions of this kind are susceptible to two analyses in
regard to their functional organization. The ﬁrst one, sketched in Figure 17(a),
reﬂects the basic organization for inﬁnitival complementation generally. Here
the proﬁled occurrence is the assessment coded by likely, which is thus the focus
of attention within objective scene (OS), the situation being described. As noted
in Figure 13(b), likely implies a conceptualizer (C) responsible for the assess-
ment. The speaker (C0) identiﬁes with C, as well as the virtual conceptualizer
invoked by clausal grounding (GR), which locates the proﬁled process (be likely)
in immediate reality. That process is directly grounded by the grammaticized
grounding system.
Figure 17
Despite the assessment’s grammatical prominence, it would usually not be pre-
sented for its own sake, as the primary object of interest, but as a means of in-
dicating the status of the complement occurrence (Thompson 2002; Verhagen
2005). This discourse purpose implies the alternate functional organization in
17(b), where the event of her succeeding is the real object of description. In this
alternate organizational scheme, the objective scene (OS') encompasses just that
event, and everything else – including the assessment of likelihood – functions
44 Ronald W. Langacker
as an elaborated grounding speciﬁcation (GR'). Through the direct grounding of
be likely, GR' eﬀects the indirect grounding of succeed.
Which of these options is correct? I see no reason why they cannot coexist
as simultaneous and complementary levels of understanding. If the ﬁrst is more
salient from the standpoint of overt grammatical structure, the latter may well
be primary from the discourse standpoint – what we ultimately want to know
is whether she succeeds. The possible coexistence of these organizational
schemes has obvious implications for grammaticization, which I merely note in
passing. The tension between grammatical and discourse prominence might
facilitate a structural reanalysis serving to bring them into alignment, minimally
by shifting the composite-structure proﬁle to the complement process (succeed).
This defocusing of the matrix predicate (likely) could be a ﬁrst step in its eventual
grammaticization as a clause-internal grounding element.
Turning now to ﬁnite complementation, we have to recognize yet another
stratum of conceptual elaboration. Allowed as objects of description at this level,
besides processes of assessment, are propositions in which an oﬀstage concep-
tualizer makes such assessments in regard to an onstage occurrence. Moreover,
these abstract entities are themselves conceived as targets of assessment by
another conceptualizer, often put onstage as focal participant in a proﬁled rela-
tionship of propositional attitude. This implies the explicit recognition of other
conceptualizers who not only have their own conceptions of reality and engage
in assessments giving rise to propositions, but also – at a higher level – participate
in formulating, evaluating, communicating, and negotiating propositions, and
then – at a higher level still – describe these activities by means of predicates
like possible, suspect, know, believe, claim, convince, true, deny, etc. These too
can be grounded to form propositions pertaining to the status of other proposi-
tions. This sometimes results in chains of propositional assessments with no
inherent limit on their length, as in (24), diagrammed in Figure 18.
(24) Perhaps Joe suspects that Alex hopes that Megan will succeed.
Figure 18
Modals: Striving for Control 45
This is quite impressive when you think about it. Finite complementation ac-
commodates an epistemic landscape of open-ended complexity and convoluted
topography. The epistemic path from the speaker to the target event, like that of
Megan succeeding, can lead through any number of conceptualizers. These
include not only the speaker (C0) and sentient clausal participants, but also the
virtual conceptualizers (C) implied by clausal grounding at the various levels.
Each makes a mental assessment pertaining to another such assessment, locat-
ing it either in conceived reality or in another mental space (Fauconnier 1985).
This complex epistemic landscape involves a sophisticated notion of “reality”
several steps removed from R, the established history of occurrences. Modals
presuppose the distinction between R and RC, a particular conceptualizer’s
partial knowledge of R. With ﬁnite complementation, reality is characterized
more abstractly: rather than the accepted history of occurrences, RC is a set of
propositions accepted as being valid. And ﬁnally, chains of ﬁnite complements
reﬂect the potential for one reality conception to include a proposition invoking
the divergent reality conception of another individual, and so on indeﬁnitely. So
if C1 knows that C2 believes that P, and C1 further knows that P is invalid, it is
still the case that P ﬁgures in C1’s conception of reality, albeit indirectly: P may
not itself be accepted as real by C1, but it is accepted as real that C2 believes it.
Reality is thus a complex, multilevel aﬀair comprising mental spaces linked by
particular paths of mental access (Cutrer 1994; Fauconnier and Sweetser 1996).
The various conceptualizers represented in (24) are all distinct. The predi-
cates suspect and hope imply that Joe and Alex do not subscribe to the judgment
indicated by the grounding of their complements (e.g. Alex is not prepared to
state that Megan will succeed, since he merely hopes so). Also, the adverb
perhaps insulates the speaker from the judgment conveyed by the grounding
of the matrix clause. As a consequence, reaching the target occurrence (Megan
succeed) involves such a long path through the epistemic landscape that the
prospects of its realization are exceedingly tenuous. It is, in fact, so far removed
from the speaker’s conception of reality that making the journey hardly seems
useful. But left to their own devices, the formal mechanisms of complementation
would extend these paths indeﬁnitely.
Fortunately, structural elaboration is subject to conceptual control. Although
we can certainly negotiate epistemic paths of this length, we are not continually
forced to do so by a runaway autonomous syntax. We construct such expres-
sions only when the path they deﬁne is one we comprehend and have reason
to want to follow. And it usually requires fewer steps than expected given the
number of clauses and assessments involved. Several kinds of “shortcuts” aﬀord
a greater measure of control by eﬀectively shortening the path of access to
downstream elements.
46 Ronald W. Langacker
For one thing, the speaker has a global awareness of the epistemic land-
scape and the target’s location within it. Being responsible for constructing the
full expression, the speaker is not conﬁned to the epistemic path spelled out by
a chain of complements. The speaker thus apprehends the target occurrence,
and the proposition containing it, independently of the path that speciﬁes its
epistemic status. Reﬂecting this global awareness is a basic feature of ﬁnite
complementation in English: by and large, a complement clause describes the
proﬁled occurrence from the speaker’s vantage point even when the proposi-
tional assessment is due to another conceptualizer.
For example, in (25) the complement proposition assesses the proﬁled
occurrence – his depression – as being real. This proposition is formulated by
the matrix subject (she), who accepts its validity and thus subscribes to the
assessment it incorporates. The speaker need not subscribe to it (e.g. the speaker
may know for a fact that he is not now and never has been depressed). But
without assuming responsibility for it, the speaker does express the proposition
and describe the occurrence. And at least in terms of temporal location, the
description reﬂects the speaker’s vantage point, not that of the matrix subject.
The subject probably said to herself “He’s depressed”, with present tense,
accepting the then-current reality of the proﬁled situation. Yet the speaker would
describe this using the past tense, reﬂecting its temporal location vis-à-vis the
speech event. Using the present indicates that the speaker construes the propo-
sition as pertaining to an enduring situation that extends through the current
moment.
(25) a. She concluded that he was depressed.
She thought: “He is depressed [now]”. I report: “. . . he was depressed
[then]”.
b. She concluded that he is depressed.
She thought: “He is depressed [now]”. I report: “. . . he is depressed
[(then and) now]”.
What this shows is that the same proposition can be apprehended by multiple
conceptualizers, who naturally view it from their own vantage point and make
their own assessments regarding its validity. In English, the deictic component
of grounding (tense for clauses, demonstratives for nominals) normally reﬂects
the speaker’s vantage point, irrespective of whether the speaker subscribes to the
proposition and the epistemic component of clausal grounding. The speaker’s
global awareness aﬀords the direct access which makes this possible.
Modals: Striving for Control 47
In another kind of shortcut, an external conceptualizer identiﬁes with the
conceptualizer (C) implicit in clausal grounding, and thus assumes the role of C
in making the grounding assessment. Matrix predicates indicating acceptance
of the complement proposition entail this identiﬁcation: if Joe is certain she
is angry, then Joe suscribes to the proposition She is angry. The key factor, as
shown in Figure 19, is that the complement proposition is part of C1’s reality
conception, RC1. Identiﬁcation eﬀectively merges C1 with C, hence RC1 with RC,
so that C1 adopts C’s stance in regard to the complement process (in this case,
accepting it as real). As a consequence, upstream conceptualizers have greater
control of the process because the path connecting them is shorter by one step.
Figure 19
As a special case, the speaker can identify with C and thus assume direct respon-
sibility for a complement grounding assessment, independently of the epistemic
path speciﬁed by matrix predicates. Factive predicates have this import, as pre-
viously shown in Figure 11(c). If Joe realizes she is angry, then the speaker, as
well as Joe, subscribes to the proposition She is angry. And even if Joe does
not, the speaker still does: Joe doesn’t realize she is angry.
5.3 Structural control
Finite complementation reﬂects our capacity for treating propositions as auton-
omous objects of thought independent of any particular conceptualizer. They
can thus be apprehended by multiple conceptualizers who assess them diﬀer-
ently and negotiate their validity. Identiﬁcation reduces their autonomy by merg-
ing the grounding assessment, on the part of C, with that of a particular external
conceptualizer, C1. As a result the proﬁled clausal process is subject to the direct
epistemic control of C1, hence indirect control by the interlocutors.
Roughly, at least, degree of conceptual autonomy correlates with degree of
structural autonomy. This is not evident from identiﬁcation: merging C with C1
has no visible impact, since C is merely implicit in a ﬁnite complement clause.
It is however quite apparent, and often noted, in regard to inﬁnitival comple-
ments. Structurally, they are less autonomous than a ﬁnite clause – which can
stand alone as a sentence – because they lack both a subject and a grounding
48 Ronald W. Langacker
element. They are conceptually non-autonomous because, accordingly, they
depend on the matrix clause for both the identiﬁcation of their trajector and
an indication of their epistemic status. Thus they do not themselves represent
propositions, but rather occurrences whose speciﬁc nature and status hinges
on their apprehension in relation to the matrix clause.9
We can think of structural and conceptual autonomy as a matter of control:
a complement “struggles” to be independent of the matrix clause, while the
latter “strives” to control and incorporate it. Now obviously, this metaphorical
construal of the clauses as willful agents is not to be taken seriously. Invoking
the control cycle is however quite appropriate, I suggest. Typical cases of inﬁni-
tival complementation, e.g. She tried to lift the rock, instantiate the control cycle
at several diﬀerent levels. The verb try describes a striving for eﬀective control
on the part of its subject, the target being execution of the complement event.
At the epistemic level, apprehending this eﬀort provides the interlocutors with
information bearing on the event’s realization. The third level pertains to what
is meant in describing a verb like try as a control predicate and its subject as
a controller. I will refer to this as participant control. It is usually conceived in
purely formal terms: the controller is the matrix nominal to which the implicit
complement subject is coreferential. But from the CG perspective, this formal
property reﬂects the other levels of control resulting in the complement’s lack
of independence from the matrix.
More speciﬁcally, I propose that participant control is precisely analogous
to identiﬁcation with a grounding conceptualizer. Both are instances of a matrix
clause controlling its complement through a conceptual overlap that prevents
the latter from being fully autonomous. In each case, a matrix participant also
ﬁlls a role in the complement, making it a pivot. And in each case the role
usurped by the pivot serves as a main point of access to the complement. With
identiﬁcation the pivot ﬁlls the implicit role of grounding conceptualizer, point
of access for epistemic assessment; it is therefore limited to ﬁnite complements.
In the absence of grounding, the main point of access is the complement trajector
(initial reference point for apprehending the proﬁled occurrence). Through the
pivot, the matrix thus controls the complement at the eﬀective level (pertaining
to the occurrence itself) rather than the epistemic level (pertaining to knowledge
of the occurrence).
9 In the CG analysis, that marks a ﬁnite complement as being an autonomous object of con-
ception, whereas inﬁnitival to marks an occurrence apprehended at the mental (as opposed to
perceptual) level (Langacker 2009: ch. 10). I believe this latter characterization to be compatible
with the description in Duﬄey 1992.
Modals: Striving for Control 49
The choice of pivot is a classic problem that I cannot pursue here in any
detail. As a basic generalization with a good chance of proving viable, I suggest
that the pivot can be characterized as the participant which, in accordance with
the semantics of the matrix clause, most directly controls the complement either
epistemically or eﬀectively. Be that as it may, the parallelism of identiﬁcation
and participant control is shown in Figure 20, for the speciﬁc case of promise
(cf. Figure 12). The matrix trajector, as the one who promises, controls the com-
plement both epistemically (by apprehending the promise) and eﬀectively (by
committing to its realization). In 20(a), the trajector presents the complement
proposition as being valid, and thus identiﬁes with C: if She promised he would
behave, she was prepared to say He will behave.10 But in 20(b) the trajector com-
mits to an occurrence, not the validity of a proposition, so there is no grounding
conceptualizer. It thus identiﬁes with the complement’s trajector, the main point
of access to the process it describes.
Figure 20
The pivot’s dual role is less apparent in 20(c), representing the use of promise for
making an epistemic assessment. Because no commitment is involved, the pivot
has no eﬀective role in the matrix, so in this use promise is transparent
(a “raising” predicate). Grammatically the pivot is still the matrix subject, and
it does still have a semantic role in the matrix clause, albeit one that is much
attenuated. As a matrix participant, it controls the complement process only
passively, in the minimal sense of serving as point of access for the tacit concep-
tualizer who assesses its likelihood. Raising can thus be seen as the degenerate
case of participant control.
10 The modal shows up as would because the basis for assessment, the trajector’s then-current
conception of reality, is non-immediate to the speaker, who describes the proposition from his
own vantage point.
50 Ronald W. Langacker
The form of a complement clause directly reﬂects these conceptual factors.
Being internally grounded, a ﬁnite complement has all the elements needed to
stand alone as an independent statement. The fact that the pivot is expressed in
the matrix has no impact on its form, since its role as grounding conceptualizer is
always implicit (C being the subject of conception). Inﬁnitival complementation,
where there is no grounding, is just a matter of conceiving the matrix relationship
as engaging an occurrence rather a proposition. The complement lacks a subject
when its trajector is identiﬁed with a matrix participant. Although the pivot has
a dual role, it need be mentioned only once – the fact that the same element ﬁlls
both roles allows economy of expression.11 The shading in Figure 20 indicates
that portion of the overall conception which the matrix clause fails to “cover”,
leaving it for the complement to express. Inﬁnitival complements lack a subject
when the matrix covers its trajector.
In many languages – including French, Spanish, and German – inﬁnitival
constructions occupy a semantic niche comparable to that of the more highly
grammaticized English modals (Achard 1998; Cornillie 2006; Mortelmans 2006;
Athanasiadou, Canakis, and Cornillie 2006). We see from Figure 20(b)–(c) that in
such constructions the modal force can either be eﬀective or epistemic, and we
have further seen that either kind of predicate can be transparent. While they
tend to correlate, these two parameters are basically independent because they
depend on diﬀerent factors. The eﬀective/epistemic opposition is a matter of
level: at issue is whether the activity has the potential to inﬂuence what happens,
as with persuade, or merely pertains to knowledge of what happens, as with
expect. By contrast, the opaque/transparent opposition depends on whether
or not the matrix relationship engages the pivot at the eﬀective level. Purely
epistemic predicates are thus transparent: He expected there to be beer at the
wedding. But while eﬀective predicates are generally opaque (*He persuaded
there to be beer at the wedding), they too exhibit transparency when the eﬀective
force does not engage the pivot directly. We saw this previously with predicates
of causation: *He forced there to be beer at the wedding vs. He caused there to be
beer at the wedding.
Moreover, both oppositions are independent of degree of grammaticization.
The examples just cited all involve ungrammaticized matrix predicates, which
proﬁle a relationship distinct from the complement process. We observe the
same range of options with the clause-internal English modals, which arguably
proﬁle the grounded process (rather than the modal force). Obviously, an
11 For the same reason, we say He put the box on the table, not *He put the box it on the table.
The box has a dual role, as landmark of put and trajector of on the table, but it need be
expressed only once.
Modals: Striving for Control 51
English modal can either be eﬀective or epistemic – She must be at the wedding
has both interpretations – and if epistemic it is also transparent: There must be
100 people in line for beer. Eﬀective modals are opaque under the interpretation
that the clausal subject is expected to carry out the action: {You / *there} must
serve beer at the wedding. They can however be used transparently, interpreted
as meaning that the force is directed at some other party: There must be beer at
the wedding.
In Figure 21 I show the diﬀerence between a matrix predicate with modal
force, like Spanish poder and deber, and a clause-internal grounding modal,
like English can and must. It basically comes down to whether the modal assess-
ment is onstage as a proﬁled object of description, or is oﬀstage and subjectively
construed, leaving the grounded process as the clausal referent and focus of
attention. The transition from the former to the latter represents a ﬁnal step in
the imaginary struggle to curb the autonomy of a complement clause and bring
it under control by assimilating it to the matrix. The ﬁrst step is to limit the
autonomy of a ﬁnite complement through identiﬁcation of its grounding con-
ceptualizer with a matrix participant. Further, more drastic steps reduce a ﬁnite
complement to an inﬁnitival one: identiﬁcation of the complement trajector with
a matrix participant; and the elimination of independent grounding, so that the
complement process is grounded only indirectly, via the matrix. The ﬁnal step is
to merge the matrix and the complement into a single clause representing just
a single instantiation of the grounding and descriptive functions. Previously an
object of description, the erstwhile matrix relationship assumes an oﬀstage ground-
ing role. With its removal from the stage, the erstwhile complement occurrence
has the limelight all to itself.
Figure 21
If the contrast in Figure 21 is clear in principle, in practice it represents a grada-
tion rather than a categorical distinction. Many subtle factors ﬁgure in the anal-
ysis of particular predicates and the interpretation of particular examples.
Although on functional grounds we need to distinguish the situation being de-
scribed (OS) from the circumstances of its apprehension, the boundary between
them is fuzzy at best. Proﬁling, being a kind of prominence, might well be a
52 Ronald W. Langacker
matter of degree. Also, as we saw in Figure 17, an expression may be susceptible
to competing analyses, possibly coexisting as complementary levels of under-
standing within a single interpretation. It would thus be simplistic to propose
either structure in Figure 21 as the sole characterization of basic modal expres-
sions in a given language.
I do not pretend to have oﬀered either a deﬁnitive analysis of English modals
or a comprehensive description. Prerequisite to such a task is knowing know
how to characterize the full range of options, how they relate to one another,
and likely paths of development. By elucidating some of the factors involved, I
have striven to achieve a measure of epistemic control.
References
Achard, Michel. 1998. Representation of Cognitive Structures: Syntax and Semantics of French
Sentential Complements. (Cognitive Linguistics Research 11.) Berlin and New York: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Athanasiadou, Angeliki, Costas Canakis and Bert Cornillie (eds.). 2006. Subjectiﬁcation: Various
Paths to Subjectivity. (Cognitive Linguistics Research 31.) Berlin and New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Boye, Kasper and Peter Harder. 2009. Evidentiality: linguistic categories and grammaticaliza-
tion. Functions of Language 16: 9–43.
Cornillie, Bert. 2006. Conceptual and constructional considerations on the subjectivity of
English and Spanish modals. In: Angeliki Athanasiadou, Costas Canakis and Bert Cornillie
(eds.), Subjectiﬁcation: Various Paths to Subjectivity, 177–205. (Cognitive Linguistics
Research 31.) Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cornillie, Bert. 2007. Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality in Spanish (Semi-)Auxiliaries: A
Cognitive-Functional Approach. (Applications of Cognitive Linguistics 5.) Berlin and New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cutrer, Michelle. 1994. Time and tense in narrative and in everyday language. Ph.D. disserta-
tion, University of California, San Diego.
Duﬄey, Patrick J. 1992. The English Inﬁnitive. (English Language Series.) London and New York:
Longman.
Fauconnier, Gilles. 1985. Mental Spaces: Aspects of Meaning Construction in Natural Language.
Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press/Bradford.
Fauconnier, Gilles and Eve Sweetser (eds.). 1996. Spaces, Worlds, and Grammar. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press.
Kiparsky, Paul and Carol Kiparsky. 1970. Fact. In: Manfred Bierwisch and Karl Erich Heidolph
(eds.), Progress in Linguistics, 143–173. The Hague: Mouton.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1991. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Volume 2, Descriptive Applica-
tion. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1993. Reference-point constructions. Cognitive Linguistics 4: 1–38.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1995. Raising and transparency. Language 71: 1–62.
Modals: Striving for Control 53
Langacker, Ronald W. 1997. Generics and habituals. In: Angeliki Athanasiadou and René Dirven
(eds.), On Conditionals Again, 191–222. (Current Issues in Linguistic Theory 143.) Amster-
dam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1998. On subjectiﬁcation and grammaticization. In: Jean-Pierre Koenig
(ed.), Discourse and Cognition: Bridging the Gap, 71–89. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1999a. Assessing the cognitive linguistic enterprise. In: Theo Janssen and
Gisela Redeker (eds.), Cognitive Linguistics: Foundations, Scope, and Methodology, 13–
59. (Cognitive Linguistics Research 15.) Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1999b. Losing control: grammaticization, subjectiﬁcation and trans-
parency. In: Andreas Blank and Peter Koch (eds.), Historical Semantics and Cognition,
147–175. (Cognitive Linguistics Research 13.) Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2002a. The control cycle: why grammar is a matter of life and death.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Japanese Cognitive Linguistics Association 2:
193–220.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2002b. Deixis and subjectivity. In: Frank Brisard (ed.), Grounding: The
Epistemic Footing of Deixis and Reference, 1–28. (Cognitive Linguistics Research 21.) Berlin
and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2004. Possession, location, and existence. In: Augusto Soares da Silva,
Amadeu Torres, and Miguel Gonçalves (eds.), Linguagem, Cultura e Cognição: Estudios de
Linguística Cognitiva, volume I, 85–120. Coimbra: Almedina.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2005. Dynamicity, ﬁctivity, and scanning: the imaginative basis of logic
and linguistic meaning. In: Diane Pecher and Rolf A. Zwaan (eds.), Grounding Cognition:
The Role of Perception and Action in Memory, Language and Thinking, 164–197. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2008. Cognitive Grammar: A Basic Introduction. New York: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2009. Investigations in Cognitive Grammar. (Cognitive Linguistics
Research 42.) Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2010. Control and the mind/body duality: knowing vs. eﬀecting. In:
Elżbieta Tabakowska, Michał Choiński, and Łukasz Wiraszka (eds.), Cognitive Linguistics
in Action: From Theory to Application and Back, 165–207. (Applications of Cognitive Lin-
guistics 14.) Berlin and New York: De Gruyter Mouton.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2012. Substrate, system, and expression: aspects of the functional orga-
nization of English ﬁnite clauses. In: Mario Brdar, Ida Raﬀaelli, and Milena Žic Fuchs
(eds.), Cognitive Linguistics between Universality and Variation, 3–52. Newcastle upon
Tyne: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Mortelmans, Tanja. 2006. Langacker’s “subjectiﬁcation” and “grounding”: a more gradual
view. In: Angeliki Athanasiadou, Costas Canakis, and Bert Cornillie (eds.), Subjectiﬁcation:
Various Paths to Subjectivity, 151–175. (Cognitive Linguistics Research 31.) Berlin and New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Narrog, Heiko. 2005. Modality, mood, and change of modal meanings: a new perspective.
Cognitive Linguistics 16: 677–731.
Postal, Paul M. 1974. On Raising: One Rule of English Grammar and Its Theoretical Implications.
(Current Studies in Linguistics 5.) Cambridge, MA and London: MIT Press.
Rice, Sally. 1987a. Towards a cognitive model of transitivity. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
California, San Diego.
54 Ronald W. Langacker
Rice, Sally. 1987b. Towards a transitive prototype: evidence from some atypical English passives.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society 13: 422–434.
Sweetser, Eve E. 1982. Root and epistemic modals: causality in two worlds. Proceedings of the
Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society 8: 484–507.
Sweetser, Eve E. 1990. From Etymology to Pragmatics: Metaphorical and Cultural Aspects of
Semantic Structure. (Cambridge Studies in Linguistics 54.) Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Talmy, Leonard. 1988. Force dynamics in language and cognition. Cognitive Science 12: 49–
100.
Taylor, John R. 1996. Possessives in English: An Exploration in Cognitive Grammar. Oxford:
Oxford University Press/Clarendon.
Thompson, Sandra A. 2002. “Object complements” and conversation: towards a realistic account.
Studies in Language 26: 125–164.
Tomasello, Michael, Ann Cale Kruger and Hilary Horn Ratner. 1993. Cultural learning. Behavioral
and Brain Sciences 16: 495–552.
Traugott, Elizabeth C. 1989. On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: an example of sub-
jectiﬁcation in semantic change. Language 65: 31–55.
Traugott, Elizabeth C. 1993. The conﬂict promises/threatens to escalate into war. Proceedings
of the Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society 19: 348–358.
van Oosten, Jeanne. 1986. The Nature of Subjects, Topics and Agents: A Cognitive Explanation.
Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Verhagen, Arie. 2000. “The girl that promised to become something”: an exploration into dia-
chronic subjectiﬁcation in Dutch. In: Thomas F. Shannon and Johan P. Snapper (eds.), The
Berkeley Conference on Dutch Linguistics 1997: The Dutch Language at the Millenium,
197–208. (Publications of the American Association for Netherlandic Studies 12.) Lanham,
NY and Oxford: University Press of America.
Verhagen, Arie. 2005. Constructions of Intersubjectivity: Discourse, Syntax, and Cognition.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Willemse, Peter. 2005. Nominal reference-point constructions: possessive and esphoric NPs in
English. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Leuven.
Modals: Striving for Control 55
Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
Contemporary change in modal usage
in spoken British English: mapping the
impact of “genre”
1 Introduction
In this paper we report on changing patterns of use of the core modal auxiliaries
in present-day spoken British English. We examine variation over recent time
(1960s–1990s), for the modals as a group and for individual modal auxiliary
verbs.1
Previous studies have focused on written English and only occasionally
have they considered the question of whether these changes are aﬀected by
text type. The default assumption appears to be that change over time in written
English is representative of changes more generally and that, if text type makes
a diﬀerence, the eﬀect of this variation is minor. However, synchronic studies in
both written and spoken English have shown that text type aﬀects the likely use
of a particular core modal. In this paper we therefore go one stage further: we
investigate whether diﬀerent spoken text types (sometimes referred to as spoken
genres) yield diﬀerent results.2
We use data from the Diachronic Corpus of Present-Day Spoken English
(DCPSE), a corpus of British English material drawn from a range of spoken
text types. Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie (forthcoming 2013) report diachronic ﬁnd-
ings from DCPSE with a comparison of change in various modal verb phrase
patterns (involving combinations with other auxiliaries, declarative and inter-
rogative structures, and so on). This paper extends our investigations in another
direction by examining whether patterns of change over time vary across diﬀerent
types of spoken text.
1.1 The modals in recent corpus studies
The English modal auxiliaries share a number of well-known grammatical proper-
ties that distinguish them from other auxiliary verbs. These include a lack of
1 The research reported here stems from a project supported by the Arts and Humanities
Research Council under grant AH/E006299/1. We gratefully acknowledge their support.
2 In this paper (and despite the title) we prefer the term “text type” as a neutral descriptor
covering distinct sociolinguistic categories of text, since “genre” is variously used and deﬁned
in the literature.
non-tensed forms, a lack of person–number agreement and occurrence with a
following verb in bare inﬁnitival form. The core modals surveyed in this paper
are those modals which have been identiﬁed as “central” on the basis of such
grammatical properties: can, could, may, might, shall, should, will, would and
must (e.g. Quirk et al. 1985: 137; cf. Collins 2009: chapter 2). Apart from must,
these are usually paired as present and past tense counterparts of single lexemes
(can/could, may/might, shall/should, will/would), although the relationships
between the counterparts are complex. For present purposes it is useful to treat
them as individual items, as each has its own proﬁle of changing usage.
The aim of this paper is to survey changing usage in the grammatically
delimited group of core modal auxiliaries. We therefore exclude several other
modals identiﬁed by Quirk et al. as more “marginal” members of the set in terms
of their grammatical behaviour (dare, need, ought to, used to). We also exclude a
range of “quasi-modals”, described by Collins (2009: 15) as “periphrastic modal
forms . . . formally distinguishable from, but semantically similar to, the modal
auxiliaries”, such as have got to, have to, be to, had better. See van der Auwera,
Noël and Van linden (this volume) for a study of diachronic and regional varia-
tion in the use of (had) better, and for references to the literature on marginal
modals and quasi-modals.
Recent diachronic trends in the use of the modals have been studied by
Geoﬀrey Leech and colleagues, focusing mainly on written English. Their main
ﬁndings are reviewed below; see Leech (this volume) for further discussion.
Leech and colleagues also report some ﬁndings for spoken English, based on
selected subsamples of DCPSE (whereas in this paper we report detailed ﬁnd-
ings drawn from the full corpus).
Leech (2003) and Leech et al. (2009) report ﬁndings from the “Brown quartet”
of corpora: four one-million-word corpora representing printed written British
and American English from the 1960s and 1990s. The British corpora are the
LOB (Lancaster–Oslo–Bergen) corpus (containing material from 1961) and its
Freiburg counterpart FLOB (with 1991 material), while the American corpora are
Brown (1961) and Frown (1992). These four corpora include a range of matching
categories of printed text.
Leech et al. (2009) measure modal frequencies per million words (pmw),
and report a signiﬁcant overall decline of around 10% in modal frequency in
both British and American English writing.3 They also report results for individual
3 Leech et al. include in their study the more peripheral modals ought (to) and need(n’t)
in addition to the core modals listed above. However, as the frequencies of these forms are
extremely low, they have little eﬀect on the overall results (cf. the reanalysis of the data in
Aarts, Wallis and Bowie forthcoming 2013). In terms of results for individual modals, these two
are found to decrease signiﬁcantly in British English, while their declines in American English
are not signiﬁcant (perhaps because their frequencies are already very low in 1961).
58 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
modals. In British English signiﬁcant declines are found for all core modals
except can, could and will, which show no signiﬁcant change. In American
English the pattern is slightly diﬀerent, with all core modals showing signiﬁcant
decline except can, could and might, which show no signiﬁcant change.
Leech et al. (2009) also compare trends for the modals among four written
“subcorpora” groupings in the British English data. They ﬁnd signiﬁcant declines
(ranging from about 8% to 14%) in three of these categories: press, general
prose and ﬁction. In contrast, the learned category shows no decline (rather, a
small non-signiﬁcant rise). They do not give a breakdown of data by text type
for individual modals. These four groupings in the corpora are more ﬁnely cate-
gorised into 15 text categories (for example, press comprises reportage, editorial
and reviews). Leech (2003: 227) comments that, in the British English data,
modal pmw frequencies decrease in 13 out of 15 categories, with the percentage
decline ranging from 31.2% to 0.5%, and the remaining two categories are non-
signiﬁcant.
Leech (2011) has recently extended this diachronic study backwards to 1901
and forwards to the ﬁrst decade of the 2000s, based on further (mainly written)
corpora for both British and American English. The British English corpora (de-
signed to match the earlier “Brown quartet”) are BLOB-1901 (covering 1898–
1904), BLOB-1931 (1931), and BE06 (2005–8). The 1901 corpus is still incomplete,
so Leech’s initial results are based on a one-third representatively sampled cross-
section. For American English, Leech reports results from COHA (Corpus of
Historical American English), covering the 1910s to the 2000s, and COCA (Corpus
of Contemporary American English), covering 1990–2010 and including spoken
material (on these corpora, see Davies 2009, 2010). Leech’s additional ﬁndings
support the general picture of declining frequency of the modals from the middle
of the twentieth century (British English) or earlier (American English), and
show that signiﬁcant decline continues into the 2000s in both varieties. He also
ﬁnds, for both varieties, that the patterns of decline for a number of individual
modals (such as may, shall and must) apply not just from 1961 to 1991 but over
longer periods.
The importance of considering genre diﬀerences in diachronic change is
highlighted when we compare these results with those of Millar (2009) in his
restricted-genre study of modal verb frequencies in the Time magazine corpus.
Time is, in his words, “a popular American weekly news journal” (2009: 197),
and the corpus gives continuous coverage from 1923 to 2006, with around 1 to
1.5 million words per year. He reports results which in some ways diﬀer surpris-
ingly from those of Leech (2003). Using data grouped per decade, he ﬁnds a
22.9% increase in pmw frequencies of the core modals4 from the 1920s to the
4 Millar includes ought but not the very infrequent need(n’t) in his study.
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 59
2000s – although the ﬁgures show a great deal of ﬂuctuation over the decades.
Comparing just 1961 and 1991 data to more closely resemble Leech’s (2003)
methodology, he ﬁnds a smaller increase of 2.81%.
Millar does ﬁnd, like Leech, clear patterns of decline for shall and must,
both from 1961 to 1991, and over the longer term. However, he ﬁnds a strikingly
diﬀerent result for may. For this modal, Leech consistently ﬁnds patterns of
decline. For American English, Leech ﬁnds a signiﬁcant decline of around 32%
in the Brown corpora from 1961 to 1991; a signiﬁcant decline in COCA from the
1910s to the 2000s, with a mostly steady pattern of decline per decade; and a
signiﬁcant decline in COHA from 1990 to 2010, with a steady pattern of decline
per ﬁve-year interval. In contrast, Millar ﬁnds an increase of 54% from 1961 to
1991, and his per-decade ﬁgures show a steady increase from the 1950s to the
1990s.
As Leech’s data samples a wider range of genres, it seems reasonable to
conclude, as does Leech (2011), that his ﬁndings are more indicative of patterns
in the language as a whole, while Millar’s contrasting ﬁnding for may appears to
be speciﬁc to the genre of Time magazine. Millar himself notes an apparent “surge
in epistemic modality” in the magazine, which may reﬂect “a shift towards greater
speculation in reporting” (2009: 213). The “epistemic surge” is suggested by large
increases in frequency not only of may but also of could and of modal adverbs
such as maybe, and additionally by an increase in the proportion of occurrences
of may which are epistemic.
Synchronic corpus studies have also exposed another factor which compli-
cates the picture: the diﬀering density of modals across text types. For example,
Biber et al. (1999: 486–9) compare the registers of conversation, ﬁction, news
and academic prose in the Longman Spoken and Written English Corpus, which
includes both American and British English (they present graphs, but not exact
ﬁgures or signiﬁcance tests). They ﬁnd that modals are most common in conver-
sation and least common in news and academic prose. They report “strikingly
diﬀerent distributions across registers” (1999: 487) for most individual modals.
For example, can and will are most common in conversation, while may is least
common in conversation and most common in academic prose.
Finally, Collins (2009) presents a detailed synchronic corpus study of the
modals and quasi-modals in British, Australian and US English, drawing data
from the one-million-word British and Australian components of the Inter-
national Corpus of English (ICE-GB and ICE-AUS), and from a smaller, specially
assembled corpus of US English. He cites pmw frequencies for each lexical
item, and for the ICE corpora provides a breakdown into four broad genre
groupings: written printed, written non-printed, spoken dialogue and spoken
monologue (while written and spoken ﬁgures are given for the US data).
60 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
We have carried out a simple re-analysis of Collins’ data collating the nine
core modal forms in ICE-GB (Appendix 1 presents raw ﬁgures). Contrasting spoken
and written frequencies, we ﬁnd that the overall modal pmw density is not
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent,5 but individual modals vary signiﬁcantly. Can, could
and would are more frequent in spoken English, whereas may, must and should
are less frequent.6 Within the written texts, the printed/non-printed distinction
obtains a similar pattern, with no overall signiﬁcant change, but can, will and
would are more frequent in non-printed texts and may, must and should are
more frequent in printed texts. This variation between individual modals is
assessed as a proportion of the set of modals, i.e. by considering whether an
individual modal changes its share of the total number of modals used.
The pattern of variation is rather diﬀerent when we focus on Collins’ spoken
groupings. There are 26% (±3.5%) fewer modals per million words in the mono-
logues than the dialogues. The share of the modal set taken up by individual
modals is also diﬀerent across spoken genres. May and will have a signiﬁcantly
larger share (110% ±30% and 22% ±8% respectively) of modals in the monologues
than in the dialogues, whereas would’s share is signiﬁcantly smaller (–30%
±6.5%).7
Of the four groupings, dialogues have the highest pmw frequency of modals
while monologues have the lowest, and for modal use at least, spoken genre
variation appears to be wider than written. Given that corpus research has
tended to focus on written data, due to its availability, this suggests that a focus
on spoken English would be rewarding.
ICE-GB is a synchronic corpus collected over a brief timespan (1990–92).
DCPSE, the corpus used in the present study, provides the opportunity to study
change over time and how such change might diﬀer between spoken text types.
This corpus is described in the next section.
1.2 DCPSE
The Diachronic Corpus of Present-Day Spoken English (DCPSE) is a parsed (fully
grammatically analysed) corpus of over 849,000 words of spoken British English.
DCPSE is, to our knowledge, the largest available single corpus of parsed and
5 Using a 2 × 1 “goodness of ﬁt” chi-square test at an error level p < 0.05.
6 This analysis is by share of set, although as the overall frequency is stable, the outcome
would be similar were we to use a pmw baseline. We return to these concepts in our main
exposition (see in particular section 3).
7 These ± ﬁgures are 95% (i.e. error level p < 0.05) conﬁdence intervals, i.e. we are 95% con-
ﬁdent that the true population value is within this range. See Section 1.3.
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 61
checked spoken English. It comprises two subcorpora containing material from
diﬀerent periods. One subcorpus contains texts from the London–Lund Corpus
(LLC) dating from the late 1950s to the 1970s (Svartvik 1990); the other, texts
from the British Component of the International Corpus of English (ICE-GB) col-
lected in the early 1990s (Nelson, Wallis, and Aarts 2002). The corpus therefore
allows the investigation of recent change across a period of around thirty years.
The spoken data is divided into “parsing units” (roughly, sentences), each of
which is grammatically analysed in the form of a labelled phrase structure tree.
An example is given in Figure 1, where the tree is displayed branching from left
to right for compactness. Each node of the tree is labelled in terms of (i) function
(top left, e.g. subject, noun phrase head), (ii) category (top right, e.g. noun
phrase, adverb), and (iii) additional features where applicable (bottom section,
e.g. singular, intransitive).
Figure 1: An example of a tree diagram in the DCPSE corpus, I couldn’t quite see DI-F05 #6
8
PU = parsing unit, CL = clause, intr = intransitive, SU = subject, NP = noun phrase, NPHD =
noun phrase head, PRON = pronoun, pers = personal, sing = singular, VB = verbal, VP = verb
phrase, OP = operator, AUX = auxiliary, A = adverbial, AVP = adverb phrase, inten = intensify-
ing, AVHD = adverb phrase head, ADV = adverb, MVB = main verb, V = verb, inﬁn = inﬁnitive.
This parse analysis is not merely descriptive. The entire treebank can be
systematically searched and explored using software called ICECUP 3.1 (Inter-
national Corpus of English Corpus Utility Program 3.1), which was speciﬁcally
developed for the exploration of parsed corpora. This means that we can reliably
identify instances of modals and – subject to the accuracy of the analysis – limit
results to those within a particular grammatical context.
ICECUP has a ﬂexible facility for searching grammatical structures. So-called
Fuzzy Tree Fragments or “FTFs” (Aarts, Nelson, and Wallis 1998; Nelson, Wallis,
and Aarts 2002) are a diagrammatic query representation of search elements in a
8 The text code “DI-F” indicates that this example is from the spontaneous commentary in the
ICE-GB (1990s) subcorpus.
62 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
tree. The idea is fairly intuitive: put a label like “VP” in a category slot and the
query will obtain verb phrases, extend the query into a mini tree and that con-
ﬁguration must be found, and so on.
Figure 2 shows an example of an FTF used to search for any VP containing
a modal auxiliary immediately followed by an adverb phrase. This will match
examples such as the VP shown in Figure 1 (where the matching nodes are
shaded).
Figure 2: An example of a Fuzzy Tree Fragment
Figure 3 shows an example of a single-node FTF with lexical material spe-
ciﬁed. This FTF searches for any instance of the forms would, ’d, or wouldn’t
classed as a modal auxiliary. The inclusion of grammatical category and feature
information in searches for the modals excludes irrelevant instances of identical
forms which would be retrieved in a simple lexical search (e.g. ’d as a perfect
auxiliary, will as a noun).
Figure 3: An FTF to ﬁnd examples of modal auxiliaries taking one of the set of forms {would, ’d,
wouldn’t}
The spoken language data in DCPSE is sampled over a broad range of text types.
The two subcorpora are sampled from ten matched categories. There are some
unavoidable diﬀerences between the samples, however.
Note that LLC texts consist of 5,000 words each while ICE-GB texts are 2,000
words each, so that proportionately fewer texts were taken from the LLC than
from ICE-GB to obtain similar subcorpus sizes. Table 1 shows the number of
words and individual speakers per text category in the two subcorpora. The text
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 63
categories also diﬀer in size. Informal face-to-face conversation is the largest
category, and the highly specialised category of legal cross-examination is the
smallest.
There are also diﬀerences in the time distribution of samples. The material
in ICE-GB is from 1990–92, whereas LLC spans the years from 1958 to 1977, and
the text categories in LLC are not evenly distributed across these years. For
example, the single text in the legal cross-examination category comes from
1967, whereas texts within the parliamentary language and assorted spontane-
ous categories come from the 1970s. Other text types contain material from
both decades in varying proportions. This means that while categories within
LLC show some temporal variation as well as text type variation, each category
can still be compared across LLC and ICE-GB as representative of earlier and
later material for that category. We do, however, need to take care in attributing
variation simply to “time” or “genre”, as the two variables may not be strictly
independent within the sample. Finally, the categories of spontaneous commen-
tary, assorted spontaneous and prepared speech consist mainly of monologue.
1.3 Baselines for modal frequency
In the literature, as we saw in section 1.1, frequencies of modals are typically
cited as per million words (pmw) as a method of “normalisation”. However, a
Table 1: Numbers of words and identiﬁed speakers (in brackets), in the two subcorpora of
DCPSE9
Text category LLC ICE-GB Total
formal face-to-face conversations 46,291 (51) 39,201 (58) 85,492 (109)
informal face-to-face conversations 207,852 (146) 176,244 (398) 384,096 (544)
telephone conversations 25,645 (110) 19,455 (30) 45,100 (140)
broadcast discussions 43,620 (47) 42,002 (101) 85,622 (148)
broadcast interviews 20,359 (12) 21,385 (26) 41,744 (38)
spontaneous commentary 45,765 (50) 48,539 (60) 94,304 (110)
parliamentary language 10,081 (14) 10,226 (58) 20,307 (72)
Legal cross-examination 5,089 (4) 4,249 (5) 9,338 (9)
assorted spontaneous 10,111 (8) 10,767 (5) 20,878 (13)
prepared speech 30,564 (14) 32,180 (71) 62,744 (85)
Total 445,377 (450) 404,248 (818) 849,625 (1,268)
9 The data presented in this paper have been obtained from a revised version prepared by the
authors and others at the Survey of English Usage. The word counts exclude “ignored” mate-
rial, i.e. material excluded from the structural analysis because it represents nonﬂuencies such
as repetitions and reformulations.
64 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
word frequency baseline is often far from optimal. When comparing results, the
authors have argued (see e.g. Aarts, Close, and Wallis, 2013) that it is preferable
to select a baseline for comparison which eliminates as much extraneous varia-
tion as possible. Why is this important?
Consider the question from the speaker’s point of view. The decision to use
a modal auxiliary verb represents a grammatical choice made within a verb
phrase. Text categories may diﬀer in their “VP density”, that is, in the frequency
of VPs per million words. Ergo, the frequency of modals per VP is likely to
obtain more reliable and precise results for changes in use than frequency per
word. By a simple process of division we can factor out variation due to VP
density.
Indeed, we can further narrow the baseline to tensed VPs (henceforth “tVPs”),
as modals cannot occur in non-tensed VPs (e.g. *He wants to can drive to work,
cf. He wants to be able to drive to work). Below we demonstrate that the text
categories in DCPSE vary considerably in tVP density, and this underlines the
importance of selecting an informative baseline.10
To search for tVPs in the corpus, the single-node FTF shown in Figure 4 was
used. This FTF retrieves any auxiliary or main verb which bears the tense feature
“present” or “past”. As each VP can include at most only one tensed AUX or V,
this gives us a reliable count of tensed VPs in each category.11
Figure 4: A Fuzzy Tree Fragment which searches for auxiliaries or main verbs with the tense
features “present” or “past”
10 For frequencies of individual modals, the total set of modals provides another useful base-
line. See Section 3.
11 An alternative way to search for tensed VPs would be to search for VP nodes with the
features “present” or “past”. Because of the parsing system used in the corpus, this method
excludes certain instances where tensed AUX or V nodes occur directly under a clausal (CL)
node rather than under a VP node, for example in tag questions (e.g. He saw her, didn’t he?)
and interrogatives where a copular verb acts as operator (e.g. Is she angry?). For present pur-
poses, we prefer to use the more inclusive search, as the modal/non-modal distinction applies
to these contexts (cf. He could see her, couldn’t he?; Will she be angry?).
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 65
Table 2 lists pmw frequencies of tVPs in LLC and ICE-GB (the earlier and
later subcorpora respectively), broken down by text category. (For raw frequencies
see Appendix 2.) The table also shows the percentage change in frequency
across the two subcorpora, and a “goodness of ﬁt” χ2 test checks whether a
change is a signiﬁcant one. Figures 5 and 6 visualise pmw frequencies and the
percentage diﬀerences in these frequencies, respectively.
In Figure 5 we simply plot the number of tensed VPs per million words
in each text category and subcorpus (LLC and ICE-GB). Note that the labels
for the text categories are abbreviated from the full forms given in Table 2 (e.g.
s commentary is used for spontaneous commentary). We can see that the “Total”
normalised frequency is almost perfectly constant over time, but the same
cannot be said of individual text categories. It can also be seen that there is
considerable variation in what we might call “tensed VP density” (the rate of
tVPs pmw) between text categories. For example, spontaneous commentary
and parliamentary language have a relatively low tVP density in both LLC and
ICE‑GB.
In Figure 6 we further explore change over time by plotting percentage
swing ﬁgures (the % column in Table 2) with 95% conﬁdence intervals on these
changes. This is a way of estimating the accuracy of a given observation: a 95%
interval means that there is a 1 in 20 chance that the observation would be
outside this range were we to repeat the experiment. This is another way of
expressing a signiﬁcance test: if the interval does not cross the zero axis, the
Table 2: Tensed VPs pmw, by text category, compared across the two subcorpora of DCPSE.
Values of χ2 in bold indicate that the given percentage swing is signiﬁcant (i.e. not zero) at
p < 0.05
Text category LLC ICE-GB Change in frequency
% χ2
formal face-to-face 118,922 128,849 8.35% 16.94
informal face-to-face 134,312 136,589 1.70% 3.65
telephone conversations 125,795 130,558 3.79% 1.96
broadcast discussions 121,091 118,947 –1.77% 0.82
broadcast interviews 111,351 127,753 14.73% 23.43
spontaneous commentary 88,474 93,924 6.16% 7.67
parliamentary language 91,261 99,550 9.08% 3.66
legal cross-examination 145,412 114,851 –21.02% 16.45
assorted spontaneous 129,562 101,700 –21.50% 35.14
prepared speech 107,152 88,875 –17.06% 53.55
Total 122,348 122,232 –0.09% 0.02
66 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
change is more or less than zero, which is another way of saying that the dif-
ference is “signiﬁcant”.
Here again we see that, whereas tVP density overall (“Total” column) does
not change signiﬁcantly over time (i.e. from LLC to ICE-GB), the individual cate-
gories do show variation. Three categories exhibit a signiﬁcant increase (formal
face-to-face conversation, broadcast interviews, and spontaneous commentary)
while another three show a signiﬁcant decrease (legal cross-examination, assorted
spontaneous, and prepared speech).
What is happening? There are two possible explanations, both potentially
true, for this variation in tVP density over time. One is that this is the result of
sampling diﬀerences; the other that it results from changes in language use
within text categories. The particular reason does not concern us here, although
it may be worthy of investigation in its own right.
This leads us inexorably to the conclusion that any comparison in terms
of modal frequency set against a pmw baseline cannot address this source of
variation. With a pmw baseline, we simply cannot say whether a change in the
frequency of modal tensed VPs is due to a change in frequency of tensed VPs,
or a change in the use of modals, or both. As tVP variation is signiﬁcant and
Figure 5: Synchronic and diachronic variation in evidence. The graph shows the frequency of
tensed VPs pmw, by text category, across the two subcorpora of DCPSE
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 67
sizeable, a pmw baseline is likely to mislead.13 We therefore factor out this extra-
neous variation by considering the frequency of modals per tVP instead of per
million words.
1.4 Plotting change over time
At this point it is useful to brieﬂy note that changes over time can be plotted by
a number of diﬀerent measures. Figure 6 plotted a change expressed in terms of
12 We calculate accurate conﬁdence intervals on these measures using Newcombe’s (1998)
method, giving us a more precise 2 × 2 χ2 test of signiﬁcance. Conﬁdence intervals allow us to
do two things: visualise certainty and test for signiﬁcance at the same time. Throughout this
paper we use a 95% conﬁdence level (error level p < 0.05) as standard.
13 Recall that in section 1.1 we observed that Leech’s and Millar’s results, calculated per
million words, showed a rise in modal use in the Time magazine corpus but a decline in the
more broadly sampled Brown quartet. Since DCPSE subgenres show substantial variation in
tensed VP density over time, it seems likely that similar variation would exist between Time and
Brown, and we may hypothesise that the pmw baseline itself contributes to these apparently
very diﬀerent results.
Figure 6: Percentage change in pmw frequencies of tVPs between LLC and ICE-GB subcorpora.
The error bars are 95% conﬁdence intervals. Where the line does not cross the zero axis, the
change may be said to be signiﬁcant (at p < 0.05)12
68 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
percentage swing, which can be deﬁned in the following way. First, we deﬁne
simple swing as the diﬀerence:
swing = p2 – p1,
where p1 and p2 represent proportions from subcorpus 1, 2, etc. These propor-
tions are proportions of a baseline, e.g. per million words, or per tensed VP.
Ideally they should represent the probability of selecting an item (e.g. a modal
tensed VP) from the set of items covered by the baseline (e.g. a tensed VP).
Percentage swing is calculated as a fraction of the starting point, p1:
percentage swing = ( p2 – p1) / p1.
The idea with percentage swing is that we obtain a single value which combines
both an absolute starting point (p1) and the change over time. While this is use-
ful and fairly intuitive, and therefore commonly used (we quoted percentage
swings in section 1.3, for instance), this measure has some important limitations.
Figure 6 presents positive or negative percentage swing from a zero axis:
it does not show the start and end points of the change (cf. Figure 5) or the
absolute size of the change. Percentage swing does scale the diﬀerence as a
proportion of the starting point, which can be an advantage in comparing high
and low frequency terms. However, it is diﬃcult to compare the changes between
two categories (such as broadcast interviews and spontaneous commentary)
using percentage swing: if the starting point p1 diﬀers between these categories
(as is likely), then the lengths of each bar (a function of p1) are not on the same
scale.
In Figure 7 we employ an alternative visualisation based on start and
end points, p1 and p2, to plot the simple swing for the tVP data in Figure 5. The
absolute height of columns in Figure 5 become start points and end points for
any given change (e.g. legal cross-examination, indicated). The length of the
bar represents the simple swing (diﬀerence), with the shading indicating the
direction of the change, from LLC start points (lighter) to ICE-GB end points
(darker).
Conﬁdence intervals are calculated for the diﬀerence p2 – p1 using New-
combe’s (1998) method, as previously. Thus in the case of legal cross-examina-
tion we can read this interval as saying that, at a 95% conﬁdence level, the nor-
malised frequency of tensed VPs falls by between 17,000 and 44,000 per million
words. For convenience we attach the conﬁdence interval to the end point (this
also makes the direction of change clearer). This does not imply that the start
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 69
point is certain and the end point uncertain, rather that the diﬀerence between
start and end is within this range.
In order to decide which intervals represent a signiﬁcant change, note that
the relevant error bar is interior to the column, against the direction of change.
Where the error bar does not cross the start point, the change is signiﬁcant (at
a 95% error level, i.e. p < 0.05). Thus, in broadcast interviews, the frequency of
tVPs increases signiﬁcantly (from around 111,000 pmw in LLC to around 128,000
pmw in ICE‑GB), whereas in prepared speech the frequency decreases signiﬁ-
cantly (from around 107,000 pmw in LLC to around 89,000 pmw in ICE‑GB).
Contrastingly, it can be seen, for example, that the increase in the telephone
conversations category is not signiﬁcant, as the error bar crosses the start point
of the column.
This strategy allows us to capture a considerable amount of information in a
single graph. Furthermore, it allows us to compare changes between categories
which diﬀer in their starting points. For example, we can clearly see that the
values for broadcast interviews and spontaneous commentary are separated
out, something that Figure 6 fails to illustrate.
Figure 7: Plotting simple swing of tVPs pmw (from LLC to ICE-GB). Shading indicates the
direction of travel, from LLC starting points (lighter) to ICE-GB end points (darker). Where the
error bar does not cross the tail (starting point) of the column, the change is considered to be
signiﬁcant (at p < 0.05)
70 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
In conclusion, both simple and percentage swing can be used to indicate
the degree of observed change, and each metric has its advantages. Percentage
swing has the advantage that it places diﬀerences of larger or smaller quantities
on approximately the same scale, but it is not easy to compare terms which may
be moving in opposite directions and it obscures diﬀerences in scale. For this
reason, we use simple swing graphs in sections 2 and 3 below. In sections 4
and 5 we use percentage swing as ﬁgures become increasingly complex.
2 All modals by text category over time
We report ﬁndings on the core modals can, could, may, might, must, shall,
should, will and would. Negative and shortened forms (e.g. won’t and ’ll) are
included in the data. To search for the modals we used a set of FTFs like the
one shown in Figure 3 above, with lexical material speciﬁed.
First we will consider the frequencies of all core modals. We begin by com-
paring their pmw frequencies in the diﬀerent text categories of the two sub-
corpora of DCPSE. We consider pmw frequencies to allow comparison (i) with
other studies which report pmw frequencies; and (ii) with the results per tVP
to be presented later. The pmw results are given in Table 3, and changes are
visualised in Figure 8. The table gives both simple and percentage changes in
Table 3: All modals pmw by text category, compared across subcorpora of DCPSE. The bold
ﬁgures in the χ2 column indicate signiﬁcant changes over time (cf. Table 2)
Text category LLC ICE-GB Change in frequency
simple % χ2
formal face-to-face 18,557 18,520 –37 –0.20% 0.00
informal face-to-face 17,464 18,049 584 3.35% 1.84
Telephone conversations 26,867 18,093 –8,774 –32.66% 36.89
Broadcast discussions 18,890 14,809 –4,082 –21.61% 21.11
Broadcast interviews 19,304 14,356 –4,948 –25.63% 15.23
spontaneous commentary 9,177 10,919 1,742 18.98% 7.09
parliamentary language 25,394 22,101 –3,294 –12.97% 2.32
legal cross-examination 11,004 22,358 11,354 103.18% 18.46
assorted spontaneous 18,198 11,702 –6,496 –35.69% 14.82
prepared speech 14,003 13,021 –983 –7.02% 1.12
Total 17,376 16,287 –1,089 –6.27% 14.91
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 71
frequencies, and the graph shows simple swing along with start and end points
(cf. Figure 7). (For the raw frequencies of the modals, see Appendix 2).
Overall, the modals as a group show a signiﬁcant fall of around 1,000 pmw
or 6% of the LLC ﬁgure (see Total row, Table 3). However, this overall decline is
not the end of the story.
We can see considerable variation between text categories. Spontaneous com-
mentary has a comparatively low frequency of modal verbs, while parliamentary
language shows a comparatively high frequency. The eﬀect of the diachronic
dimension is also very diﬀerent between categories. Signiﬁcant decreases are
found in four categories (telephone conversations, broadcast discussions, broad-
cast interviews, and assorted spontaneous speech), whereas signiﬁcant increases
are found in two categories (spontaneous commentary and legal cross-examina-
tion). These two text categories appear to “buck the trend”. The obvious ques-
tion is, what is going on?
We have already seen in section 1.3 that tensed VPs vary per million words
by text category and time. As modal tensed VPs are a subcategory of tVPs, we
ﬁrst need to remove this variation from our analysis. We factor this variation
out very simply by computing proportions p1, p2, etc. as a proportion of tensed
VPs. This obtains the results shown in Table 4.
Figure 8: Modals pmw by text category, showing simple swing from LLC to ICE-GB
72 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
This table shows the rates of modals per tVP. The overall rate is around 0.14
per tVP: that is, around 14% of tensed VPs contain a modal auxiliary verb. This
rate for modals as a category is of interest in itself and more intuitively meaning-
ful than a pmw rate.14 The proportion of tVPs containing a modal auxiliary
ranges widely across text type and time, from around 8% to 28%, as Figure 9
illustrates.
Table 4 reports simple and percentage changes in modal frequency per
tVP from earlier to later subcorpora. The overall frequency declines signiﬁcantly
from LLC to ICE‑GB by 0.0088 per tVP (simple swing). This is a percentage swing
of –6.18% – an overall decline which is similar to that for pmw frequencies
(–6.27%). (Recall that percentage swing is the diﬀerence between ICE-GB fre-
quency and LLC frequency as a proportion of LLC frequency.) The ﬁgures cited
in the text below are also percentage swing ﬁgures.
The proportion of tensed VPs containing a modal has declined signiﬁcantly in
four categories, and increased signiﬁcantly in one (legal cross-examination). The
“assorted spontaneous” category no longer reports a signiﬁcant change. For most
categories, the results are similar to those obtained using pmw measures. Both
methods ﬁnd signiﬁcant decreases in the categories of telephone conversations,
Table 4: Modals per tVP by text category, compared across subcorpora of DCPSE. The χ2 column
compares the ratio of modals (LLC:ICE-GB) to the ratio of tVPs for signiﬁcant diﬀerence
Text category LLC ICE-GB Change in frequency
simple % χ2
formal face-to-face 0.1560 0.1437 –0.0123 –7.89% 2.66
informal face-to-face 0.1300 0.1321 0.0021 1.62% 0.44
telephone conversations 0.2136 0.1386 –0.0750 –35.11% 44.27
broadcast discussions 0.1560 0.1245 –0.0315 –20.19% 18.11
broadcast interviews 0.1734 0.1124 –0.0610 –35.18% 32.91
spontaneous commentary 0.1037 0.1163 0.0125 12.07% 3.05
parliamentary language 0.2783 0.2220 –0.0563 –20.22% 6.15
legal cross-examination 0.0757 0.1947 0.1190 157.25% 33.86
assorted spontaneous 0.1405 0.1151 –0.0254 –18.08% 2.98
prepared speech 0.1307 0.1465 0.0158 12.10% 2.77
Total 0.1420 0.1332 –0.0088 –6.18% 14.48
14 Biber et al. (1999: 456) report a roughly similar rate of 10–15% in their four registers of
conversation, ﬁction, news, and academic writing in the LSWE (Longman Spoken and Written
English) Corpus, which includes both American and British English. (Their rate is for modals,
which they consider as untensed forms, as a proportion of ﬁnite verb phrases; this in eﬀect
corresponds to our proportions.)
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 73
broadcast discussions, and broadcast interviews, and a signiﬁcant increase in
the legal cross-examination category.
However, the size of the change observed diﬀers considerably in some of
these cases. For example, the decrease in the broadcast interview category is
35% (±11%) in the tVP results as against 26% (±13%) in the pmw results.15 This
category is one where tVP density pmw was found to increase signiﬁcantly,
hence the greater decline in modal frequency once this increase in tVP density
is taken into account.
Elsewhere, the two baselines obtain diﬀerent results. Spontaneous com-
mentary shows a signiﬁcant increase (19% ±14%) in the pmw results, but this
increase is not signiﬁcant in the tVP results; and as already noted, “assorted
spontaneous” shows a signiﬁcant decrease (36% ±18%) in the pmw results, but
the decrease is not signiﬁcant in the per tVP results. The pmw results seem to be
due to changing frequencies of tensed VPs pmw (an increase for spontaneous
commentary, and a decrease for assorted spontaneous; see Figure 7), rather
15 These ± ﬁgures represent approximate conﬁdence intervals cited at the 95% level. See
section 1.3.
Figure 9: Modals per tVP by text category, showing simple swing from LLC to ICE-GB
74 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
than to changing patterns of modal usage. On the other hand, parliamentary
language exhibits a signiﬁcant decrease (20% ±14%) in the tVP results, yet set
against a pmw baseline, the decrease is not signiﬁcant. It should be clear to
the reader by now that this choice of baseline is extremely important, and, it
seems, especially so when results are compared across text categories (and, by
extension, between diﬀerently sampled corpora).
When considered per tensed VP, legal cross-examination is the only text cat-
egory which shows a signiﬁcant increase in modal frequency. The size of this
increase is quite dramatic at 157% (±54%). However, this is the smallest category
in terms of number of words (see Table 1) and is drawn from only nine speakers
in total; the raw numbers of modals are also relatively small. Therefore these
results should be treated with caution.
We mentioned in the introduction that the text categories in the earlier sub-
corpus, LLC, are not evenly distributed across the 1960s and 1970s. It is worth
noting, therefore, that the categories which show a signiﬁcant decline are not
all ones with a preponderance of earlier over later material: one (broadcast dis-
cussions) does have more earlier (1958–61) material than 1970s material, but the
other three are weighted towards 1970s material and indeed one of them (parlia-
mentary language) has only 1970s material.
It is also noteworthy that not all text categories show a decline in overall
modal frequencies. No overall decline is seen in informal conversation, for
example, much the largest text category in the corpus and one which might
be expected to be at the head of changes unfolding in the language. To gain a
fuller picture, it is necessary to look at the patterns of change among individual
modals.
3 Individual modals over time
So far we have considered the frequencies of all core modals taken together.
However, previous research has shown not only considerable synchronic varia-
tion in frequency among individual modals, but also varying diachronic trends
over recent decades (e.g. Leech 2003; Leech et al. 2009; Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie
forthcoming 2013). We now turn to consider the frequencies of individual modals,
ﬁrst with all text categories taken together, and then (in the next section) within
diﬀerent text categories. Again, see Appendix 2 for modal frequency data.
Table 5 summarises the results for individual modals, against a tensed VP
baseline. Simple and percentage swing per tVP are listed, along with the results
of two “goodness of ﬁt” χ2 tests. Column A evaluates whether each modal changes
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 75
signiﬁcantly against a tensed VP baseline. Column B considers each modal as
a member of the overall set of modals, i.e. whether the modal signiﬁcantly
increases or decreases its relative proportion (share) of the overall set.16
We can visualise these changes using simple swing graphs. Figure 10 plots
simple swing against two baselines: as a proportion of tensed VPs17 (using the
left-hand axis) and as a fraction of the modal set (in eﬀect, the set of modal
tensed VPs, right axis). Thus we can see that the modal auxiliary can is found
in around 0.03 of all tensed VPs and this ﬁgure does not increase signiﬁcantly,
but its share of the modal set (i.e. of modal tensed VPs) does increase signiﬁ-
cantly over the same period.
Figure 10 and Table 5 also conﬁrm the expected ﬁnding that frequencies of
individual modals vary synchronically in this corpus, with will, would, and can
being by far the most frequent. Each of those items comprises over 20% of the
total modal ﬁgures, while could comprises over 10%.
Examining diachronic change over time, considered per tVP, may, must, and
shall show signiﬁcant and substantial declines in use (ranging from 40% to
Table 5: Proportions of individual modals per tensed VP, including negative and truncated
forms. Columns A and B test for signiﬁcant variation from tVPs and all modals respectively
Lemma LLC ICE-GB simple % A: χ2
(tVPs)
B: χ2
(modals)
can 0.0297 0.0317 0.0020 6.87% 3.52 13.53
could 0.0157 0.0139 –0.0018 –11.18% 5.36 1.14
may 0.0072 0.0043 –0.0028 –39.77% 36.18 27.51
might 0.0055 0.0058 0.0003 5.17% 0.37 1.92
must 0.0086 0.0039 –0.0046 –54.19% 87.85 73.50
shall 0.0035 0.0018 –0.0017 –48.31% 27.66 22.42
should 0.0091 0.0078 –0.0012 –13.61% 4.65 1.48
will 0.0274 0.0309 0.0035 12.94% 11.20 26.06
would 0.0354 0.0329 –0.0025 –6.98% 4.62 0.06
Total 0.1420 0.1332 –0.0088 –6.18% 14.48
16 Note that in employing a tVP baseline we do not claim that every tensed VP could take a
given modal verb (can, could, etc.). We are not claiming that the baseline set represents a set
of alternate forms, merely that it is a more reliable baseline than a word count. Similarly, in
comparing can, etc., against the modal set we are identifying statistically signiﬁcant variation
within the modal set, rather than explaining this as arising by speaker choice.
17 The results for percentage change measured per tVP are very similar to those reported
in Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie (forthcoming 2013: Table 2) for percentage change measured per
million words (recall that, when all texts are taken together, tVP density does not diﬀer signiﬁ-
cantly between the earlier and later subparts of DCPSE).
76 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
54%). We might say that these modals are “atypical” in that they show trends
which are signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from the overall trend of decline for the modal
set (cf. Table 5, Column B, and Figure 10). That is, not only are they declining in
use in circumstances where they might be used, they are also decreasing their
share of the modals.
By contrast, the modals could, should, and would all show signiﬁcant de-
clines of a smaller magnitude (from 7% to 14%), and they are “typical” modals
in the sense that these trends are not statistically separable from the behaviour
of the modal set. (In other words, they do not signiﬁcantly change as a propor-
tion of the modal set.)
Only one modal, will, exhibits a signiﬁcant increase in frequency per tensed
VP (13% ±7.5%). The increase for can per tVP is not statistically signiﬁcant. How-
ever, both can and will behave “atypically” compared to the modal set and
increase their share signiﬁcantly (note the contrasting results for can in Columns
A and B of Table 5, and see also Figure 10). Finally, might shows no signiﬁcant
change, whether measured per tensed VP or as a proportion of the modal set.
Figure 10: Changes in the use of the core modals (A, left axis) as an absolute proportion of
tensed VPs and (B, right axis) as a relative proportion of the set of modals, measured as simple
swing from LLC to ICE-GB
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 77
4 Individual modals by text category over time
So far we have examined change in modal frequency over time by considering
two diﬀerent variables independently: the spoken “genre” or text type, and the
particular core modal used. In this section we investigate the interaction between
these two variables: whether particular core modals change at diﬀerent rates
depending on the text type. This implies a more complex experimental design,
which we discuss below.
As in section 3, we analyse changes in the rate of individual core modal use
for diﬀerent text types as a proportion of tensed verb phrases (tVPs), and as a
proportion of core modals. This allows us to diﬀerentiate what we referred to as
“typical” and “atypical” change. For simplicity we will record changes in terms
of percentage swing (rather than simple swing) where these are signiﬁcant.
The ﬁrst thing we can do is try to summarise signiﬁcant change over time in
a table. Table 6 colour-codes percentage change (black = fall, grey = rise, ns =
non-signiﬁcant) for each cell against a tensed VP baseline. In this table the mo-
dals have been reordered to place potential alternates (e.g. can/may, shall/will)
side by side for ease of comparison. We know that modals are falling in use
generally (ﬁnal column), which explains the preponderance of black cells ex-
pressing negative change, but it should also be immediately clear that actual
changes diﬀer according to the particular verb and spoken text type.
Table 6 views change against tensed VP frequency, where each tVP could
conceivably include a core modal. However, as we have seen, changes within
the set of core modals are inevitably obscured by the overall decline in modals.
We examined how text categories diﬀer in changes in frequency of all modals in
section 2 (see Figure 9 in particular). The column marked All summarises these
changes, where they are signiﬁcant. Thus we know that in telephone conversa-
tions and broadcast interviews we are seeing a signiﬁcant fall of around 35%,
whereas broadcast discussions and parliamentary language have around 20%
fewer core modals. (We also saw a major increase in the use of modals in legal
cross-examination texts.) On the other hand, the two face-to-face conversational
categories do not provide evidence of signiﬁcant change.
Table 7 focuses on individual changes within the set of core modals and
factors out the eﬀect of this modal-set variation. As in section 3, we employ the
total number of core modals as a baseline. This allows us to more easily contrast
adjacent columns, such as can and may, and shall and will. Table 7 reveals
something else in comparison with Table 6: by only examining change within
the core modal set we discount some variation, such as that seen in legal
78 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
Table
6:
Signiﬁcant
changes
in
the
proportion
of
individual
core
modals
out
of
tensed
verb
phrases,
expressed
as
a
percentage
swing
from
LLC
(black
=
fall,
grey
=
rise,
ns
=
non-signiﬁcant
at
p
<
0.05)
can
may
could
might
shall
will
should
would
must
All
formal
face-to-face
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
–60.04%
ns
–74.85%
ns
informal
face-to-face
27.19%
–42.48%
ns
47.34%
–31.54%
ns
ns
ns
–52.84%
ns
telephone
conversations
–36.50%
ns
–44.17%
ns
–56.04%
–29.50%
ns
–44.36%
ns
–35.11%
broadcast
discussions
–41.20%
–58.63%
ns
ns
–83.31%
ns
ns
ns
–54.12%
–20.19%
broadcast
interviews
ns
–60.69%
ns
–58.51%
ns
–41.49%
–55.32%
–31.97%
–56.97%
–35.18%
spontaneous
commentary
ns
ns
ns
ns
–92.60%
57.97%
ns
ns
–64.47%
ns
parliamentary
language
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
–39.38%
ns
–29.83%
ns
–20.22%
legal
cross-examination
304.37%
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
1,264.75%
253.83%
ns
157.25%
assorted
spontaneous
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
prepared
speech
ns
–63.36%
ns
ns
ns
327.21%
ns
–31.73%
–47.65%
ns
All
genres
ns
–39.77%
–11.18%
ns
–48.31%
12.94%
–13.61%
–6.98%
–54.19%
–6.18%
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 79
Table
7:
Signiﬁcant
changes
in
relative
frequency
of
use
(DCPSE:
1960s
to
1990s)
of
core
modals,
expressed
as
a
proportion
of
the
1960s
data
(black
=
fall,
grey
=
rise,
ns
=
non-signiﬁcant
at
p
<
0.05)
can
may
could
might
shall
will
should
would
must
formal
face-to-face
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
–56.62%
ns
–72.70%
informal
face-to-face
25.15%
–43.40%
ns
44.98%
–32.63%
ns
ns
ns
–53.60%
telephone
conversations
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
broadcast
discussions
–26.33%
–48.16%
ns
ns
–79.08%
43.31%
ns
39.88%
–42.51%
broadcast
interviews
61.98%
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
spontaneous
commentary
ns
ns
ns
ns
–93.40%
40.95%
ns
ns
–68.30%
parliamentary
language
ns
ns
116.25%
ns
ns
ns
115.22%
ns
ns
legal
cross-examination
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
assorted
spontaneous
53.93%
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
prepared
speech
–28.94%
–67.31%
ns
ns
ns
281.09%
–43.25%
–39.10%
–53.30%
All
genres
13.91%
–35.80%
ns
ns
–44.90%
20.38%
ns
ns
–51.17%
80 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
cross-examination texts, where few participants are found, and where variation
may be attributable to individual speaker “styles”.18
One problem with Table 7 is that it is not easy to objectively determine
which columns or rows are the most similar or distant. In other words, we
cannot easily spot where core modals behave similarly across text categories,
or where text categories appear to be similar in their modal use. Among the
core modals, we placed potential alternates side by side, but these are the cases
we expect to diﬀer.
A more objective algorithmic approach employs a computational method
borrowed from psychology, termed Repertory Grid Analysis (RGA; Kelly 1955).19
RGA takes a grid like Table 7 as input after each diﬀerence value is translated
into a simple ranked score. In our case, we use a ﬁve-point scale, where 1 repre-
sents a signiﬁcant fall and 5 a signiﬁcant rise in the usage of a particular modal.
The centre value 3 is non-signiﬁcant, and we assign intermediate values to cells
that would be signiﬁcant if we relaxed the error level to p < 0.1, providing some
additional information to improve the matching. We then use an algorithm
which creates a similarity score for each pair of rows or columns by adding the
diﬀerences in ranked scores, and then uses this to pair the most similar rows or
columns together repeatedly, creating a binary cluster tree or “dendrogram”.
This procedure results in two cluster trees, one for modals (Figure 11) and
one for text categories (Figure 12). We will discuss each of these ﬁgures in turn.
They are best interpreted in combination with the grid in Table 8, which has
been reorganised using the clustering information: the modals and text cate-
gories have been reordered to match the ordering in the cluster trees, and the
dotted lines indicate major groups identiﬁable in the trees.
This means that the table now groups together those modals which show
more similar patterns of change across each of the text categories, and those
text categories which show more similar patterns of change across each of the
18 Note that even with a focus on within-set variation in the core modals, this paper is not an
alternation study (see, e.g. Aarts, Close, and Wallis 2013), which would consider whether one
modal was being replaced by a semantically related form. Rather, the present paper can be
characterised as a survey of the pattern of change over time in a corpus. The fact that can signif-
icantly increases by 25% per modal set in the informal face-to-face category whereas may sig-
niﬁcantly declines by 43%, for example, does not mean that we can say with any certainty that
they are alternating in this category, although this hypothesis would be worth further investiga-
tion. Were we to wish to do this we would need to (a) consider can and may against a baseline
of can + may, and (b) restrict the data to cases where alternation was feasible. This issue is
discussed further in 5.3 below.
19 We are concerned here not with Kelly’s psychological theory, but with the algorithm for
clustering similar patterns.
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 81
modals. Table 8 also includes an indication of the intermediate change values
used in the RGA analysis, shown as shaded boxes marked ns (non-signiﬁcant
at p < 0.05). If you compare Tables 7 and 8 you can see, for instance, how this
reorganisation has placed most of the decline in the share of modals in the
lower right quarter of the table.
The power of the cluster analysis can be seen when we examine the cluster
trees in more detail. Consider ﬁrst the modals cluster tree in Figure 11. The algo-
rithm identiﬁes the patterns of change of could and should, and shall and must,
as being the most similar, and so on up the tree. Conversely, we can say that
the set {shall, must, may, can} are distinct from the remaining core modals in
their patterns of change (and within this group, can diﬀers from the rest, as the
Figure 12: RGA cluster tree of text categories, grouped by similarity of diachronic within-modal
change
Figure 11: RGA cluster tree of relative (within-modal) changes over time: modals are paired for
their similarity of rises and falls over text categories. The most similar terms are grouped lower
down the tree. Heavy lines indicate greater diﬀerences (similarity score > 10)
82 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
Table
8:
Result
of
the
Repertory
Grid
Analysis
of
Table
7
clustering
core
modals
and
text
categories,
employing
intermediate
change
values
(shaded,
but
marked
ns,
with
dark
grey
showing
a
fall
and
light
grey
a
rise).
Dotted
lines
represent
major
groups
identiﬁed
by
the
algorithm
could
should
might
would
will
shall
must
may
can
broadcast
interviews
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
61.98%
assorted
spontaneous
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
53.93%
telephone
conversations
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
legal
cross-examination
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
parliamentary
language
116.25%
115.22%
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
ns
formal
face-to-face
ns
–56.62%
ns
ns
ns
ns
–72.70%
ns
ns
spontaneous
commentary
ns
ns
ns
ns
40.95%
–93.40%
–68.30%
ns
ns
broadcast
discussions
ns
ns
ns
39.88%
43.31%
–79.08%
–42.51%
–48.16%
–26.33%
prepared
speech
ns
–43.25%
ns
–39.10%
281.09%
ns
–53.30%
–67.31%
–28.94%
informal
face-to-face
ns
ns
44.98%
ns
ns
–32.63%
–53.60%
–43.40%
25.15%
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 83
heavier line indicates). Table 8 illustrates what this means in practice: members
of this set (grouped together on the lower right) signiﬁcantly decline in number
over several categories.
Consider next the cluster tree of text categories in Figure 12. This reveals two
groups and one outlier: informal face-to-face conversation. A glance at Table 8
reveals that the upper group is mostly an area of non-signiﬁcant change. The
second group – formal conversation, spontaneous commentary, broadcast dis-
cussions and prepared speech – is where most of the changes over time are to
be seen, and their patterns of change are mostly distinct. Finally, informal face-
to-face conversation, the largest category in the corpus (see Table 1), exhibits a
diﬀerent pattern again.
The cluster tree for the text categories does not suggest any obvious socio-
linguistic explanations for the groupings. For example, the three categories
which consist mainly of monologue – assorted spontaneous speech, spontaneous
commentary and prepared speech – do not form a cluster. Nor do we see separate
groups of public and private categories (where “public” categories are taken
as those with an audience other than the immediate participants). The outlying
category of informal face-to-face conversation could be said to represent one
end of a spectrum, with other categories distinct from it along one or more of
the dimensions of formal vs. informal, public vs. private, or monologue vs.
dialogue. The telephone conversation category is not so clearly distinct in this
regard, although it does seem to diﬀer from informal conversation in including
some material from formal contexts alongside that from informal contexts.
The text categories in the upper group, where few signiﬁcant changes are
found, are also the categories which are smaller in terms of word counts. For the
most part they are also those with the lower raw frequency counts of modals.
A further visualisation of the data is provided in Figure 13. This graph allows
us to show the conﬁdence intervals for each change, which have not so far been
presented. Here we limit the range to ±100% and plot 95% conﬁdence intervals
as I-shaped error bars. The text categories and modals are displayed in the same
order as in the cluster trees and Table 8, with the modals shown in two columns
which match the two major groupings revealed by the cluster analysis. As with the
reorganised Table 8, these orderings more clearly reveal the patterns in the data.
5 Discussion
In the course of this study, we have examined changing modal usage against sev-
eral diﬀerent baselines, moving from the general to the more speciﬁc: from words,
to tensed VPs, to the set of core modals (or modal tensed VPs). We have shown
that the move from words to tensed VPs allows us to eliminate confounding
84 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
Figure 13: Percentage swing within the core modal set (1960s to 1990s) by text category, with
I-shaped 95% conﬁdence intervals. Where an interval crosses the zero axis, the change is not
signiﬁcant
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 85
variation in tensed VP density across time and text category. We therefore
reported results against a baseline of tensed VPs. However, we then saw that
patterns of change for individual modals were obscured by the overall pattern
of modal decline. Our ﬁnal step was to examine these changes against a
modal-set baseline. Repertory grid cluster analysis was used as a way to sum-
marise the major patterns in this ﬁnal data.
In the following subsections we summarise our ﬁndings, ﬁrst from the per-
spective of text category (5.1) and then from the perspective of groups of modals
which show somewhat similar behaviour (5.2). We then discuss the issue of
possible alternations between forms (5.3).
5.1 Findings considered by text category
We ﬁrst consider our results from the perspective of text category. We summarise
by noting for each text category, ﬁrst, the overall trend for all modals per tensed
VP (Table 6, ﬁnal column; also Table 4 and Figure 9), and second, which indi-
vidual modals increase or decrease as a proportion of the set of core modals
(Tables 7 and 8, and Figure 13). The second type of variation concerns individual
modals which behave “atypically” with regard to the overall trend for each
category (variation of the ﬁrst type).
In the largest category, informal face-to-face conversation, total modal fre-
quencies are stable. The pattern of individual modal change in this category is
revealed by the cluster analysis as identifying an “outlier”, a category showing
diﬀerent patterns of change from the others. Three modals (must, may and shall)
decrease their share of the modal set, while two (might and can) increase their
share.
Most of the remaining changes for individual modals are seen in a group of
four text categories: formal face-to-face conversation, spontaneous commentary,
broadcast discussions and prepared speech. With one exception, each of these
categories shows stable total modal frequencies per tVP. The exception is broad-
cast discussions, where modal frequency declines by 20% (±8.5%). In terms of
individual modals, must decreases its share of the modal set in all four of these
categories. The remaining signiﬁcant within-set changes are as follows:
– In formal conversations, should decreases its proportion of the set.
– In spontaneous commentary, shall decreases; whereas will increases its share.
– In broadcast discussion, may, shall and can decrease; will and would increase
their shares.
– In prepared speech, may, would, can and should decrease; while will in-
creases its share.
86 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
The remaining ﬁve text categories show far fewer signiﬁcant changes for individual
modals, although several categories show changes in total modal frequencies:
– In broadcast interviews, total modal frequencies decline by 35% (±11%), and
can increases its share of the modal set.
– In assorted spontaneous speech, total modal frequencies are stable, but
can again increases its share of the modal set. However, as only 13 speakers
are represented in this category, the results should be treated with some
caution.
– In parliamentary language, total modal frequencies decline by 20% (±14%),
and could and should increase their shares of the modal set.
– In telephone conversations, total modals decrease by 35% (±9%), with no
modals behaving “atypically” (i.e. they appear not to change in proportion
to each other).
– The ﬁnal category, legal cross-examination, is alone among the ten text
categories in reporting a signiﬁcant increase in total modal frequencies. It
has no “atypical” modals. However, as mentioned earlier, this is the smallest
text category in the corpus (with a total of 9,338 words, representing only 9
speakers); the total modal frequency is also low at 151. Therefore the results
should be interpreted with caution.
5.2 Findings for modals considered in groups
To simplify our summary, we group together modals which show partially similar
patterns. We focus here on statistically signiﬁcant patterns of change within the
modal set. Findings for all text categories taken together are compared with data
from Leech et al. (2009) for written British English in the LOB and FLOB corpora,
as reanalysed against a modal-set baseline by Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie (forth-
coming 2013).
5.2.1 The modals must, shall and may
The modals must, shall and may are the only ones which decline as a proportion
of the core modal set when all text categories are considered together. They
show substantial declines: 51% (±11%) for must, 45% (±19%) for shall, and 36%
(±13%) for may. In our other study mentioned above (Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie
forthcoming 2013), we performed a within-set analysis of the same core modals
in the British written English corpora LOB/FLOB and compared these with
DCPSE. In LOB/FLOB the comparable ﬁgures are declines of 22% (±8%) for must,
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 87
38% (±13%) for shall and 9% (±7.5%) for may. Moreover, the results for must and
may were found to be statistically separable. That is, the relative declines for
those two modals are signiﬁcantly greater in the spoken corpus, suggesting that
spoken English is “leading the way” for these changes.
It is notable that must, shall and may are low-frequency modals (cf. Table 5
and Figure 10). Leech et al. (2009: 90, cf. also 269–270), comparing frequency
changes in individual modals and in particular uses of modals, suggest “a
general principle that ‘losers lose out’ (the infrequent suﬀer loss more than the
frequent do)”. This idea draws on arguments by functional and cognitive linguists
that greater usage strengthens cognitive representations (e.g. Evans and Green
2006: 114, 118–120). It seems likely that this principle is implicated in the patterns
of change we observe. However, it cannot fully explain them: for one thing, other
low-frequency modals such as might and should do not share this pattern of
steep decline.
Must, shall and may are also identiﬁed as similar in the RGA tree, showing
that a comparable pattern is observed across several individual text categories.
They all decline per modal set in the largest category of informal conversations,
and they are the only modals to do so. They all also decline per modal set in
broadcast discussions. In addition, may and must fall per modal in prepared
speech; must and shall in spontaneous commentary; and must in formal con-
versation. Figure 13 reveals that in every single text category without exception,
shall declines in its share of the modals in numerical terms, although this is not
signiﬁcant in some categories.
These three modals thus behave quite consistently across text categories.
They show no signiﬁcant increase in any text category, and each shows a signi-
ﬁcant decline in several text categories. With their steep overall falls in number,
they appear to be “leading the trend” of modal decline.
5.2.2 The modals could, should, might and would
The four items could, should, might and would are usually considered to be the
past-tense counterparts of present-tense can, shall, may and will, respectively.
However, the relationships are not straightforward, as noted, for example, in
the recent corpus study by Collins (2009): should has various specialised uses
with no counterpart in shall (2009: 48–51); may and might now seem to function
as separate lexemes for many speakers (2009: 117–118); and hypothetical uses are
more frequent than past time uses for would (2009: 139) and could (2009: 108).
In our data, none of these modals changes its share of the modal set when
all text categories are taken together. Although they are similar with regard to
this overall diachronic pattern, it should be borne in mind that their frequency
proﬁles are distinct. Would is the highest-frequency modal in our data, surpassing
88 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
even can and will: would comprises 25% of all modals, as against 11% contributed
by could, 6% by should and 4% by might (Figure 10). The reanalysed data for the
written British English corpora shows a diﬀerent pattern for could from that in
DCPSE: it increases its share of the modal set by 12.5% (±6.5%), a result which is
statistically separable from that for DCPSE (see also Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie
forthcoming 2013).
These four modals group together in the cluster analysis, although there are
diﬀerences in their patterns across text categories. Could changes its share of the
modal set in only one category, parliamentary language, where it shows an
increase. Should also increases its share in that category; however, it decreases
its share in two categories, formal conversation and prepared speech. Would
also decreases its share in prepared speech, but increases its share in broadcast
discussions. Finally, might increases its share in the largest category of informal
conversations, but otherwise shows no signiﬁcant changes.
5.2.3 The modals will and can
The items will and can stand out as the two modals which increase signiﬁcantly
as a proportion of the modal set – will by 20% (±7%), and can by 14% (±6.5%).
Both are high-frequency items (although would is of slightly higher frequency in
our data). These two modals also increase their shares of the modal set in the
reanalysed data for the written British English corpora, where the ﬁgures are
6% (±5%) for will and 14% (±7%) for can. The proportional increase for will is
signiﬁcantly greater in the spoken data than in the written (Aarts, Wallis, and
Bowie forthcoming 2013).
However, in terms of patterns across text categories in DCPSE, the two
modals behave quite diﬀerently from each other, as their separation in the
cluster analysis indicates. Will increases its share of the modal set in three cate-
gories: spontaneous commentary, broadcast discussions, and prepared speech.
It does not decrease its share in any category. Can, by contrast, decreases its
share in broadcast discussions and prepared speech, showing an inverse pattern
to will in these two categories. It increases its share in three categories where
will’s share seems stable: broadcast interviews, assorted spontaneous, and the
large category of informal conversation.
5.3 Patterns of alternation
This study is not an alternation study. In an alternation study, one would con-
sider whether one modal was being replaced by a semantically related form,
whether another modal or a quasi-modal form. For example, Close and Aarts
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 89
(2010) ﬁnd that the quasi-modal have to shows a signiﬁcant increase over time
in DCPSE in contexts of possible alternation with must, supporting the idea of a
replacement process (though only for root meanings; both epistemic and root
must are found to decline signiﬁcantly, but epistemic have to remains rare).
Table 7, which displays results per modal, is, therefore, at best indicative. It
allows us to identify areas where further investigation of alternation would be
worthwhile. We placed potentially alternating modals in adjacent columns de-
liberately to try to draw out where a decline in one type may lead to an increase
in another. First, consider can and may, both “possibility” modals, which have
a complex relationship of semantic overlap and distinction (see, e.g. Collins
2009). They show inverse patterns for all genres together and for the largest
category of informal face-to-face conversation: a signiﬁcant increase in the share
of can, and a signiﬁcant decrease in the share of may. (We can further note that
the possibility modal might increases its share in the informal category). This sug-
gests there may be some degree of replacement of may by can, a possibility which
is worthy of further investigation. On the other hand, in two categories (broadcast
discussions and prepared speech) both can and may decrease their share.
In addition, we can compare the per modal results for shall and will. These
show an inverse pattern both overall, and in the two genres of broadcast dis-
cussions and spontaneous commentary: signiﬁcant and substantial declines in
shall and increases in will. Again, this suggests there may be a trend for will to
replace shall in some contexts. In fact, a detailed alternation study of these two
modals in DCPSE (Aarts, Close, and Wallis 2013) has provided clear evidence of
a shift in use from epistemic shall to will in ﬁrst-person declarative contexts.
6 Conclusion
The overall trend of modal use in spoken British English over the period 1960–
1990 is downwards. This trend is signiﬁcant and can be identiﬁed against a
number of baselines, including the common per-million-word baseline. How-
ever, this does not mean that modals are all declining in use at the same rate,
or even that all core modals are declining in use! Nor does it mean that the
same trend that might be found when analysing a broad range of spoken tran-
scripts is found in subcategories of these transcripts.
The ﬁrst conclusion one might make, therefore, is that diﬀerent types of
texts may be undergoing diﬀerent changes, and that the assumption that a
particular type of text, such as written material, is “representative” of current
change may well be ﬂawed. We have seen that the frequency of some individual
modals appears to be changing more rapidly in DCPSE than in the LOB/FLOB
90 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
pair.Were we to assume that LOB/FLOB “represented” English of the time period
concerned for this change, therefore, we would be misled, at least as far as
changes in core modal frequency were concerned. Our study highlights the
importance of taking care in corpus sampling (with an ideal of a “balanced”
and “representative” corpus in mind) and in experimental design (to make the
best use of this corpus).
In order to explore the more complex picture which results, we demonstrated
that it is necessary to ﬁrst reﬁne the baseline from one which is proportionate to
the number of words in texts to one based on tensed verb phrases. The argu-
ment goes that only such verb phrases could conceivably contain a modal verb.
This procedure draws out diﬀerences between text categories which would
otherwise be missed or conﬂated with varying ratios of tensed VPs to words, a
ratio which for our purposes constitutes “noise”.
This experimental design can also be modiﬁed to consider relative variation
within the modal set. Here we are not claiming that the set of modals represents
an alternation set, but merely a repertoire of available modal forms. This proce-
dure allows us to diﬀerentiate between two types of change: absolute use of the
modals by text category, discussed in section 2, and change in the relative share
of the modal set taken by a particular core modal.
The patterns in the various spoken text categories present a complex picture.
There is considerable variation among text categories synchronically and dia-
chronically. Nevertheless, some diachronic trends emerge quite clearly from
this complex picture, and are broadly in accord with those found by Leech
et al. (2009) and Aarts, Wallis, and Bowie (forthcoming 2013) for the core modals
in written corpora of British and American English. We used a repertory grid
method to help us summarise this data, but the clustering of texts did not sug-
gest a “neat” explanation of an underlying factor, apart from the fact that it
identiﬁed a group of texts as showing little signiﬁcant within-set change. The
remaining larger text categories appeared to present quite diﬀerent patterns of
relative modal change.
Millar (2009) questions the robustness of results based on comparing two
particular years (or periods) as “points” in time, as done in work by Leech et
al. (2009) using the Brown family of corpora and in the present study. Comment-
ing on his data on modal frequencies from the Time Magazine corpus from 1923
to the present day, he notes that there is some year-to-year variation in fre-
quencies that does not reﬂect the longer-term trends he found in his data. This
result is not surprising. Unless we are looking at the spread of neologisms from
their invention, it would be unlikely for us to be able to plot serial incremental
change year on year! Within a closed set such as the core modals, we would
expect to ﬁnd considerable “noise”, with frequencies increasing and decreasing
annually. In order to compensate for this we employ sound statistical methods
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 91
which estimate the likely error margins of change. For more on this see Aarts,
Close, and Wallis (2013).
We have been careful to recognise the limitations of our own data. In our
analysis we noted that some sub-categories of text are relatively small (particu-
larly legal cross-examination) and have few participants. Here we must avoid
overstating the case for particular changes. In corpus linguistics we make two
important assumptions to permit statistical inference to be employed. We assume
that a sample is representative of the data from which it is drawn. However, if
we rely on a small number of continuous-text samples, this claim may be diﬃ-
cult to justify. We also assume that every time a speaker makes a decision to
employ a particular expression within a text they do so independently from pre-
vious decisions. Although this is an idealisation, it is less problematic for large
samples made up of many texts. Indeed, the signiﬁcant within-modal results
outlined in the discussion primarily concern the larger text categories with
many participants (see Table 1), where such objections are minimised.
One way that the present study could be improved would be to extend the
timescale. Obviously it is desirable to have multiple time points or periods for
comparison where possible. The trends found in Leech et al. (2009) are sup-
ported by further data presented in Leech (2011), which extends the picture
both forwards and backwards in time. Ideally we would wish to extend DCPSE
in a similar way, although the accurate transcription and reliable parsing of
speech data are costly to undertake.
Appendix 1: Raw frequency data for modals in
ICE-GB by broad genre groupings
lemma dialogue non-print print monologue all genres
would 1,682 353 791 578 3,404
will 1,432 454 1,116 859 3,861
Can 1,539 378 900 748 3,565
could 693 137 466 326 1,622
may 196 142 677 203 1,218
should 400 106 392 226 1,124
must 199 56 303 117 675
might 314 52 210 126 702
shall 92 30 62 39 223
Total 6,547 1,708 4,917 3,222 16,394
all words 360,000 100,000 300,000 240,000 1,000,000
These data are collated from Collins (2009).
92 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
Appendix 2: Raw frequency data for modals
by text category, 1960s and 1990s subcorpora
of DCPSE
1960s can may could might shall will should would must Total tVP
formal face-to-face 187 35 99 53 12 105 60 269 39 859 5,505
informal face-to-face 796 125 428 122 83 669 198 968 241 3,630 27,917
telephone conversations 132 14 91 35 26 227 36 105 23 689 3,226
broadcast discussions 196 92 65 22 19 110 88 179 53 824 5,282
broadcast interviews 49 19 57 16 10 78 26 111 27 393 2,267
spontaneous commentary 122 14 31 19 12 122 20 50 30 420 4,049
parliamentary language 27 15 11 7 5 82 10 85 14 256 920
legal cross-examination 3 10 7 2 2 9 1 21 1 56 740
assorted spontaneous 37 16 18 6 7 39 19 38 4 184 1,310
prepared speech 69 50 46 20 16 52 36 104 35 428 3,275
All genres 1,618 390 853 302 192 1,493 494 1,930 467 7,739 54,491
1990s can may could might shall will should would must Total tVP
formal face-to-face 182 24 82 37 5 112 22 253 9 726 5,051
informal face-to-face 873 62 350 155 49 611 185 798 98 3,181 24,073
telephone conversations 66 13 40 21 9 126 19 46 12 352 2,540
broadcast discussions 109 36 54 27 3 119 62 189 23 622 4,996
broadcast interviews 62 9 47 8 7 55 14 91 14 307 2,732
spontaneous commentary 151 21 35 13 1 217 25 55 12 530 4,559
parliamentary language 30 16 21 8 4 55 19 66 7 226 1,018
legal cross-examination 8 7 7 2 0 11 9 49 2 95 488
assorted spontaneous 39 9 11 4 2 29 12 19 1 126 1,095
prepared speech 48 16 40 13 10 194 20 62 16 419 2,860
All genres 1,568 213 687 288 90 1,529 387 1,628 194 6,584 49,412
The table above summarises raw frequencies in each spoken subcategory or
genre, from left to right, for each core modal, the total number of core modals
and tensed VPs (tVP column).
Contemporary change in modal usage in spoken British English 93
References
Aarts, Bas, Joanne Close and Sean Wallis. 2013. Choices over time: methodological issues in
current change. In: Bas Aarts, Joanne Close, Geoﬀrey Leech and Sean Wallis (eds.), The
Verb Phrase in English: Investigating Recent Language Change with Corpora. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Aarts, Bas, Gerald Nelson and Sean Wallis. 1998. Using Fuzzy Tree Fragments to explore
English grammar. English Today 14: 52–6.
Aarts, Bas, Sean Wallis and Jill Bowie. forthcoming 2013. Proﬁling the English verb phrase over
time: modal patterns. In: Irma Taavitsainen, Merja Kytö, Claudia Claridge and Jeremy
Smith (eds.), Developments in English: Expanding Electronic Evidence. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999. The
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Close, Joanne and Bas Aarts. 2010. Current change in the modal system of English: a case
study of must, have to and have got to. In: Ursula Lenker, Judith Huber and Robert Mail-
hammer (eds.), The History of English Verbal and Nominal Constructions, 165–181. Volume
1 of English historical linguistics 2008: Selected papers from the ﬁfteenth International
Conference on English Historical Linguistics (ICEHL 15), Munich 24–30 August 2008.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Collins, Peter. 2009. Modals and Quasi-Modals in English. Amsterdam; New York: Rodopi.
Davies, Mark. 2009. The 385+ million word Corpus of Contemporary American English (1990–
2008+): design, architecture, and linguistic insights. International Journal of Corpus Lin-
guistics 14: 159–190.
Davies, Mark. 2010. More than a peephole: using large and diverse online corpora. Interna-
tional Journal of Corpus Linguistics 15: 405–411.
Evans, Vyvyan and Melanie Green. 2006. Cognitive Linguistics: An Introduction. Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press.
Kelly, George. 1955. The Psychology of Personal Constructs. New York: Norton.
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2003. Modality on the move: the English modal auxiliaries 1961–1992. In:
Roberta Facchinetti, Manfred Krug and Frank Palmer (eds.), Modality in Contemporary
English, 223–240. Berlin; New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2011. The modals ARE declining: reply to Neil Millar’s “Modal verbs in TIME:
frequency changes 1923–2006”. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 16(4): 547–
564.
Leech, Geoﬀrey, Marianne Hundt, Christian Mair and Nicholas Smith. 2009. Change in Contem-
porary English: A Grammatical Study. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Millar, Neil. 2009. Modal verbs in TIME: frequency changes 1923–2006. International Journal of
Corpus Linguistics 14(2): 191–220.
Nelson, Gerald, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts. 2002. Exploring Natural Language: Working with
the British Component of the International Corpus of English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Newcombe, Robert G. 1998. Interval estimation for the diﬀerence between independent propor-
tions: comparison of eleven methods. Statistics in Medicine 17: 873–890.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoﬀrey Leech and Jan Svartvik. 1985. A Comprehensive
Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
Svartvik, Jan (ed.). 1990. The London-Lund Corpus of Spoken English: Description and Research.
(Lund Studies in English 82.) Lund: Lund University Press.
94 Jill Bowie, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts
Geoﬀrey Leech
Where have all the modals gone? An essay
on the declining frequency of core modal
auxiliaries in recent standard English
1 Introduction
In the ﬁrst volume in this series (Facchinetti et al. 2003) I published a chapter in
which I presented evidence for the decline in frequency of the English core
modal auxiliaries as a class1 during the period 1961–1991/2. (The decline was of
12.2% in AmE and of 9.5% in BrE). This was the period covered by the four corpora
of the Brown Family (see below) known for convenience as the Brown, LOB,
F-LOB and Frown corpora. Although the ﬁndings reported in that chapter have
since been challenged by Millar (2009) (see 2.1 below), they have more recently
been conﬁrmed by more extensive corpus evidence, as I showed in Leech (2011).
In this chapter I will brieﬂy review that evidence, drawing on corpus data from
American, British, spoken and written resources. I will then seek an explanation
for this decline. The most obvious hypothesis is that the modals as a class are
gradually being encroached upon by the emergent modals (otherwise called
semi-modals)2 – a class of verb idioms including be going to, have to, and want
to which, in association with grammaticalization (see Hopper and Traugott
2003), have been increasing in frequency. However, the Brown Family corpora
1 The term core modals is used in the introduction to Facchinetti, Krug, and Palmer (2003). I
use the term to apply not only to the well-known group of auxiliaries will, would, can, could,
may, might, shall, should, must but also to need (as a verb morphosyntactically patterning as a
modal auxiliary) and ought (to), described in Quirk et al. (1985: 138–140) as “marginal modals”.
The full verb construction need to, in contrast, is treated here as an emergent modal (see fn. 2).
Need as a core modal has become rare in present-day English, whereas the frequency of need to
has been increasing dramatically.
2 In Leech (2003) and other more recent publications, I used the term semi-modal for verbal
idioms semantically similar to the modal auxiliaries. However, in this paper I use the term
emergent modals partly modeled on Krug’s (2000) term emerging modals. The slight diﬀerence
in the label reﬂects a diﬀerence in the set of verbal idioms included in this rather ill-deﬁned
category. The idioms I have included here are BE able to, BE going to, HAVE to, HAVE got to,
WANT to, NEED to, BE supposed to, had better (including also reduced versions represented in
writing as gotta, gonna, wanna, better) – for some justiﬁcation of this list, see Leech et al.
(2009: 92–98). I have omitted BE to, included as a semi-modal in Leech (2003), as it goes
completely against the trend of increasing frequency, and has been argued to be a (core) modal
auxiliary by Declerk (2010).
show that the increase of emergent modals is far from commensurate with the
decline of core modals. After discussing some alternative hypotheses, I will con-
clude, while recognizing that other factors may well be involved, that the most
plausible explanation for the decline of frequency is a combination of the two
diachronic processes of grammaticalization and colloquialization.
2 The Brown Family of corpora of written English
The Brown Family of corpora, which provides most of the evidence for this
study, is named after the Brown Corpus (compiled at Brown University in the
1960s), which was the ﬁrst of this group of corpora to be created, and was
indeed the ﬁrst electronic corpus of the English language. The Brown Corpus
contains just over a million word tokens of published American English (AmE)
textual material, and was joined in the 1970s by a matching corpus of British
English (BrE), known as the LOB [Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen] Corpus. Both corpora
consist of text samples ﬁrst published in the year 1961. Later, in the 1990s, two
new corpora were compiled at the University of Freiburg, matching Brown and
LOB in all manageable details, and were therefore called the Freiburg-Brown
[Frown] Corpus and the Freiburg-LOB [FLOB] Corpus. These were compiled accord-
ing to precisely the same corpus design as Brown and LOB, except that they
were sampled from texts ﬁrst published in 1991 and 19923 respectively. For all
intents and purposes, these have been regarded as a representative sample of
written (published) English for 1991/2, exactly comparable to the Brown and
LOB corpora respectively. Hence signiﬁcant diﬀerences observed between the
1961 corpora and the 1991/2 corpora can be reasonably attributed to linguistic
change during the 30-year period 1961–1991/2. Because of the separation by a
30-year period, it is a natural metaphor to think of the four corpora as forming
a nuclear family, and so the label the Brown Family of corpora has stuck. Since
the 1990s, the Brown Family has been extended by the further addition of BLOB-
19314 (a matching corpus of British text samples from the period 1928–1934,
centering on 1931 – BLOB standing for ‘before LOB’). An equivalent corpus of
AmE known as B-Brown (‘before Brown’) is still under development, as is a BrE
corpus of an even earlier generation, BLOB-1901, sampled from the seven-year
period 1898–1904. A yet more recent development has been the creation at
3 The slight time discrepancy between FLOB (1991) and Frown (1992), caused by diﬃculties in
collecting the US data, is small enough to be ignored for the purpose of diachronic change.
4 BLOB-1931 was originally called the Lancaster-1931 corpus.
96 Geoﬀrey Leech
Lancaster of two matching corpora AmE06 and BE06 – respectively of AmE and
BrE of the period of ﬁve years centring on 2006. These two corpora were
collected from web-based text materials, but were in all other respects equi-
valent to the other members of the Brown Family in design. The Brown Family
as a whole, as it is at present, is summarized in Table 1.5
Table 1: The current state of the Brown Family of corpora
1901±3 1931±3 1961 1991, 1992 2006±2
British English BLOB-1901 Corpus BLOB-1931 Corpus LOB Corpus FLOB Corpus BE06
American English (no corpus yet) B-Brown Corpus Brown Corpus Frown Corpus AmE06
Notes: The shaded squares on the left represent corpora at present incomplete. The shaded
corpora on the right are collected from text materials on the World Wide Web. It will be noticed
that these, the most recent corpora, are separated in time from the preceding pair of corpora
by only 15 years, compared with double that length of period separating the earlier corpora.
The consequence of this considerable extension of the Brown Family from
the four corpora analysed in Leech (2003) is that the corpora can be used for
tracking the history of English grammatical forms and features over a period of
more than a century – though the data from the shaded corpora have to be used
with caution, because of their incompleteness or web origin. In practice, in this
essay I do not make use of the B-Brown Corpus, and my use of the BLOB-1901
Corpus will mean scaling up the frequencies of this incomplete corpus from a
balanced sample only roughly one-third as large as a full-sized corpus, to a
normalized ﬁgure of “per million words”. As a general rule, frequencies will be
cited in this essay as normalized to “per million words” ( pmw).
Although the corpora of the Brown Family are small by contemporary stan-
dards, their “added value” is in a strict adherence to principles of comparability
between the corpora: not only are the corpora equivalently subdivided into 15
genre categories, but within each genre, the make-up of the sample is matched
in sub-corpus groupings down to one-to-one equivalence of individual text
samples of 2000 words. The composition of each corpus, in summary, is as in
Table 2:
5 It would be impossible to give full acknowledgement here to those who have played a part in
the creation of the Brown Family corpora, but the names of those chieﬂy concerned with the
development of individual corpora are as follows: Brown (W. Nelson Francis and Henry Kučera),
LOB (Stig Johansson and Geoﬀrey Leech), Frown and FLOB (Christian Mair and Marianne
Hundt), BLOB-1931 (Nicholas Smith and Geoﬀrey Leech), BLOB-1901 (Nicholas Smith, Geoﬀrey
Leech and Paul Rayson), B-Brown (Marianne Hundt), BE06 (Paul Baker), AmE06 (Paul Baker,
Amanda Potts and Matteo Di Cristofaro).
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 97
Table 2: The genres of the Brown family of corpora, and the number of text samples of 2000
words each contains
Identifying
letter
Genres Subcorpora Number of
text samples
A Press: reportage Press 44
B Press: editorial 27
C Press: reviews 17
D Religion General Prose 17
E Skills and hobbies 36
F Popular lore 48
G Belles letters, biography, memoirs etc. 75
H Miscellaneous [mostly government documents] 30
J Learned [academic writing] Learned 80
K General ﬁction Fiction 29
L Mystery and detective ﬁction 24
M Science ﬁction 6
N Adventure and western ﬁction 29
P Romance and love story 29
R Humour 9
Total 500
Because the genre sections are relatively small, it has been found that more
meaningful comparisons can be made by grouping the genres into four sub-
corpora, comprising a set of related genres (Press, General Prose, Learned and
Fiction), as shown in the third column of Table 2.
The limitations of channel (written, printed) and size (just over a million
words) of the Brown family corpora mean that it makes sense to extend the
range of this study where possible by using other corpora. In particular, it is
important to ﬁnd out what we can from electronic spoken English corpora of
the same or similar periods, in so far as they exist. The Diachronic Corpus of
Present-day Spoken English [DCPSE]6 oﬀers itself for this purpose, as well as
approximately matching 4-to-5 million word corpora of American and British
speech – the Longman Corpus of Spoken American English [LCSAE] and the
demographic subcorpus of the British National Corpus [BNCdemog] – which
6 The DCPSE, developed by Bas Aarts and others at University College London, is available as
a licensed package with dedicated ICECUP software on CD. Part of the corpus consists of the
Survey of English Usage corpus (SEU) and part of the British component of the International
Corpus of English (ICE-GB). The use of this corpus and the associated software is detailed in
Nelson et al. (2002).
98 Geoﬀrey Leech
(although synchronic) can also be useful, because of their close comparability.7
For AmE in particular, there are the immense Corpus of Contemporary American
English [COCA] and the Corpus of Historical American English [COHA], which
can be searched on-line at Mark Davies’s website at BYU.8 COHA represents an
even longer diachronic span than the Brown Family. Nevertheless, in studying
frequency changes of relatively common grammatical (morphosyntactic) cate-
gories, because of their exact comparability, the 1-million word corpora of the
Brown Family are usually suﬃcient, and statistically highly signiﬁcant results
can be obtained.
3 The declining core modal frequency
Figure 1 shows the overall frequencies of the core modals and the semi-modals
in AmE and BrE included in the present study, as shown in the Brown Family
Figure 1: Core Modal Auxiliaries and Emergent Modals: Overall frequencies in BrE and AmE
1901–2006
7 Both LCSAE and BNCdemog consist of data collected by informants who carried a mobile
tape-recorder and recorded spontaneous talk in which they engaged over a set period. The
spoken material is almost all spontaneous dialogue (“conversation”), and the design was for
speakers to be representative of the English-speaking populations of the USA and the UK in
terms of age, gender, social class and region of domicile.
8 Brigham Young University. See Mark Davies’s corpus website http://corpus.byu.edu/.
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 99
corpora from 19019 to 2006. (Note that here and in other charts, frequencies will
be normalized to occurrences per million words (pmw): this usually means a
slight adjustment to the raw frequencies of the Brown Family, because each of
the Brown Family corpora exceeds a million words by a small margin.10
This chart shows not only the declining pattern of the core modals, but the
increasing proﬁle of the so-called semi-modals or (as I will call them) emergent
modals.11 The converging lines are still far apart: that is, the overall frequency
of core modals is several times that of the emergent modals. On the whole, the
core modals are declining proportionately faster than the emergent modals are
increasing. Another diﬀerence is between AmE and BrE: the decline in American
usage of modals is steeper and is roughly one generation in advance of the
British decline, which is following in its wake. The increasing frequency of the
emergent modals, on the other hand, shows no signiﬁcant diﬀerence between
American and British English.
Figures 2 and 3 reveal the declining trend in a diﬀerent way, focusing on the
consistent decline between 1961 and 1991/2 of individual core modals. It can be
seen in Figure 2 that every single modal in AmE shows a decline in frequency:
but some modals, in particular modals of middle-order or low frequency, such
as may, must, and shall, register proportionately the biggest fall. A very similar
pattern can be seen for BrE in Figure 3, except that two common modals – can
and could – show a slight rise.
9 Since the 1901 corpus (BLOB-1901) was less than half complete at the time of analysis, we
(Nick Smith and I) carefully selected from the already collected texts a sample that was pro-
portionately equivalent to a complete Brown Family corpus although consisting of only of
one-third (167 out of 500) of the texts forming what would comprise the whole corpus. Hence
the 1901 frequencies, calculated per million words, are derived from a smaller body of texts,
and scaled up to a per-million-word normalized frequency. To this extent, the 1901 normalized
frequency ﬁgures are less reliable than those from the other Brown family corpora. The 2006
corpora (both BrE and AmE), for a diﬀerent reason already explained, may also be considered
less reliably equivalent to the corpora from 1931–1992, because they were collected from web
sources – although we have so far no evidence leading us to distrust their comparability to
other members of the Brown Family.
10 This is because in each of the Brown family corpora, the ideal length of each text sample
(2000 words) is exceeded to include the remaining part of the sentence in which the 2000th
word occurs.
11 See fn 2 for an explanation of this term.
100 Geoﬀrey Leech
It may be helpful here to quote one or two examples from the corpora, illustrat-
ing the individual modal auxiliaries which have declined more than others, and
the kinds of meaning that are becoming less frequent if not obsolescent:
(1) There seems always to have been what may be termed “fashions” in
names. . . (BLOB G51)
(2) And, being Judy, she decided she must do something about it. (LOB P20)
(3) However, it is Mark I blame for the way you behaved. I shall never forgive
him. (LOB P24)
(4) The Prime Minister’s concern may be understandable. Yet need he worry?
(FLOB B13)
(5) She looked at him, and frowned. He ought not to have been there to be
counted. (LOB L13)
Figure 2: Declining use of core modals in written AmE, 1961–1992
Figure 3: Declining use of core modals in written BrE, 1961–1991
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 101
3.1 Other corpus evidence supporting the ﬁndings from the
Brown Family of corpora
The ﬁndings I reported in Leech (2003) on the decline of modals in 1961–1991
were challenged by Millar (2009), who analysed the frequency of the core modals
in the TIME Corpus – a complete textual record of the American news magazine
TIME between 1923 and 2007. (This corpus, like COCA and COHA, is available for
searching on Mark Davies’s corpus website at Brigham Young University, Utah
[BYU]). Millar observed that in TIME during that period of 84 years the modals
as a whole increased signiﬁcantly (although some modals, such as must, shall
and need(n’t), decreased). He argued that this cast doubt on the analysis in
Leech (2003), particularly because the TIME results used annual data points,
giving a much more ﬁne-grained analysis, whereas I used only two data points –
1961 and 1991/2. Since Leech (2003) was published, as already shown, the
Brown Family has been extended, and ﬁve data points (1901, 1931, 1961, 1991
and 2006) are now available (with some reservation) for BrE, and three for
AmE. These have conﬁrmed the downward direction of core modal frequency, as
Figure 1 shows. For AmE, however, more substantial conﬁrmation of the decline
has been provided by the Corpus of Historical American English (COHA) and the
Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA), both available for online
access, like the TIME Corpus, on Mark Davies’s website at BYU.
The COHA Corpus enables searches to be made decade by decade back as
far as the beginning of the nineteenth century, and Figure 4, which tracks core
modal frequency for the last 100 years, shows an overall gradual decline in the
frequency of the core modals, ﬂattening out in the mid-century, but accelerating
during the most recent thirty years:
Figure 4: Declining frequency of the core modals in the COHA corpus of written AmE
102 Geoﬀrey Leech
The twentieth-century record of gradual decline can actually be attributed to the
steady frequency loss of the seven lower-frequency modals, may, should, must,
might, shall, ought (to) and need(n’t): the four most common modals, would,
will, can and could, have on the whole maintained the same frequency over the
century, as can be seen in Figure 5:
Figure 5: Declining frequency of the seven less frequent modals in 1910–2010, contrasted with
the persisting frequency of the four most frequent modals (AmE data from COHA)
As this chart suggests, the decline which has aﬀected the less common modals
over the century has in the last decade or so begun to impinge on the four
commonest modals, so that the overall picture is of accelerating decline of
frequency.
For a close-up view of what has been happening in the last two decades, we
now switch to the COCA corpus, which provides four data points (each consist-
ing of ﬁve year periods) to produce a ﬁner-grained record. Another advantage of
COCA is that a quarter of the data of this corpus comes from spoken language
(albeit mainly from the public media).
To a diachronic linguist used to studying the history of languages in centuries
rather than decades, it is no doubt surprising that systematic change should be
detectable over a period as short as twenty years. However, Figure 6 does indeed
show a noticeable and rather consistent decline, especially in regard to the most
frequent modals will and would, and the lower-frequency modals may, should,
and must whose decline now has a longish history. (The bottom three modals
shall, need(n’t) and ought (to) are also declining, but the trend is almost invisible
on Figure 6 because of their increasing infrequency). Overall, the loss of fre-
quency over the period of 15 years between the ﬁrst data point (1990–4) and
the last data point (2005–2010) is more than 7 per cent.
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 103
It is intriguing that the three modals can, could and might, all expressing the
weak modality of ability/possibility/permission, have survived at roughly the
same level of frequency over the twenty years. In this connection, let us go
back to Millar’s (2009) article, and reconsider may. In Millar’s study of the
TIME corpus, may had shown the biggest increase of all modals – quite contrary
to the general and regular decrease of may in written AmE as shown in COHA
(see Figure 7).
Figure 7: Increase in the frequency (pmw) of may in the TIME corpus, contrasted with frequency
decline of may (pmw) in COHA over the same period
Figure 6: Frequency change of modals in the later 20th and early 21st century (AmE data from
COCA)
104 Geoﬀrey Leech
The evidence appears to be that the news magazine TIME underwent an atypical
increase in the use of may, as well as some other modals, for reasons which
are unclear. One possible explanation, hazarded by Millar himself, is that
news magazines in recent decades, or perhaps TIME in particular, have moved
away from reporting news and have given more space to speculating about the
uncertainties of the present and future, hence the increasing call for possibility
modality. As was already established in Leech (2003), epistemic possibility,
illustrated in the following examples from TIME, had by 1991 become by far
the dominant meaning of may:
(6045) . . . the crisis may be even more acute.
(6087) Though the US may eventually launch military reprisals. . .
(6098) The drug may be less eﬀective than other well-known bone-builders. . .
(These examples date from 2000, and the numbers of the examples are taken
from the temporally-ordered KWIC concordance of the TIME corpus interface at
BYU).
More research would be needed to explain properly the divergence of the
frequency increase of may in TIME from the overall steady decline of may shown
in COHA. However, one thing is clear: the TIME pattern of increase, which partly
led Millar to question the ﬁndings of Leech (2003), is a marked deviation from
the more general pattern of decline attested in COHA and other corpus evidence.
Surely a genre-speciﬁc explanation has to be sought for this strange result,
which amply warns us that ﬁndings based on just one genre or (in this case)
just one publication cannot be generalized to the written language as a whole.
4 Are the core modals declining in spoken as well
as written English?
The evidence for the declining frequency of the core modals in the previous
section was based entirely on written English corpora. Before considering the
possible reasons for this decline, it would be useful to ﬁnd out how far the
same pattern of decline can be observed in the spoken language.
Unfortunately, we lack corpora of spoken English which have a diachronic
dimension, except for the relatively small Diachronic Corpus of Present-day Spoken
English (DCPSE), which was created by amalgamating the spoken material from
two corpora of BrE, one collected in the 1958–1977, and the other collected in the
early 1990–1992. DCPSE is a valuable and unique resource, but regrettably it
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 105
cannot be regarded as a spoken equivalent of the LOB and FLOB corpora, the
BrE corpora of the Brown Family which approximate to it in date. The main
reason for this is that its two subcorpora (consisting of spoken material from
respectively the Survey of English Usage [SEU] Corpus and the British component
of the International Corpus of English [ICE-GB]) had a somewhat diﬀerent com-
position. (In particular, the transcribed texts of the SEU Corpus were around
5000 words in length, compared with texts of 2000 words in the ICE-GB. The
subdivisions of the two subcorpora in terms of spoken genres were also rather
diﬀerent, and the transcriptions of the SEU Corpus were collected over a longer
period of time than the ICE-GB). However, Nicholas Smith and I were able to use
subsamples of the SEU and ICE-GB spoken material which matched each other
as closely as possible in terms of date range, genres and size. On this basis of
approximate comparability, we could make diachronic comparisons between
the earlier and later DCPSE mini-corpora, which we named the DSEU and the
DICE. These corpora consisted of no more than 135,892 and 129,096 words respec-
tively,12 and therefore truly deserved the label mini-corpora. Despite their small
size, they were able to yield signiﬁcant results. Using the Log Likelihood (LL)
test of statistical signiﬁcance,13 the LL score for the loss of core modals was
18.73, i.e. more signiﬁcant than the p < 0.0001 critical value in a chi-square test.
The gain in emergent modals reached an even higher degree of signiﬁcance
(37.39).
The comparison of the two mini-corpora yielded the results seen in Figure 8,
showing, like Figure 1, the converging lines of frequency for core modals and
emergent modals. In the spoken corpora, moreover, both the decline of the
core modals and the increase of the emergent modals were steeper than in LOB
and FLOB: a loss of 11.8% of core modals in DCPSE (compared with 9.8% in
LOB/FLOB) and a gain of 38.5% of emergent modals in DCPSE (compared with
9.0% in LOB/FLOB).
For the written corpora LOB and FLOB, adding together the frequencies of the
core modals and emergent modals revealed a highly signiﬁcant decline of these
modal verbs overall (LL score 48.71, a higher signiﬁcance than p < 0.00001): an
overall “modality deﬁcit”, so to speak. There was likewise a “modality deﬁcit”
12 NB These “mini-corpora”, though small, are larger than the “mini-corpora” SEU-mini and
ICEGB-mini used to track diachronic change in spoken English in Leech (2003), and therefore
the results are marginally diﬀerent.
13 On the preference for the log likelihood measure of signiﬁcance over chi-square, see Paul
Rayson’s UCREL website http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/llwizard.html, and Rayson, Berridge, and Francis
(2004) which may be downloaded there.
106 Geoﬀrey Leech
for the spoken mini-corpora DSEU and DICE, but it was too small to be signiﬁ-
cant (LL score 0.54). In other words, although the loss of core modals and gain
of emergent modals are both very highly signiﬁcant, the “modality deﬁcit”
observed when both core and emergent modals’ frequencies are counted for
the 1960s and 1990s is too small to be signiﬁcant.
The conclusion is that the “modality deﬁcit” is present in both the written
and spoken corpora of the 1990s as compared with the 1960s, but is much
reduced in the spoken data, indeed non-signiﬁcant, so we must assume that
the case for a “modality deﬁcit” in the spoken data (particularly given the small
size of the mini-corpora being compared) is unproven.
5 A tentative look at possible explanations
for the apparent “modality deﬁcit”
in written English
I have used scare quotes in referring to “modality deﬁcit”, because this term can
be misleading. It seems to suggest that – as a result of the declining frequency
of core modals, and the failure of emergent modals to ﬁll this frequency gap –
Figure 8: The loss of core modals (pmw) compared with the gain of emergent modals in the
DCPSE through the 1960s to the 1990s, making use of the approximately equivalent mini-
corpora DSEU and DICE
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 107
English writers have somehow been ﬁnding fewer opportunities to express
modality, presumably exercising stronger preference for unmodalized clauses
such as The cake has been eaten rather than (say) The cake must/may have been
eaten. It is possible that this is true – in which case, an investigation into social
or psychological factors causing the “modality deﬁcit” would be of great interest.
However, there are other possible explanations, of which the most plausible is
that writers of English have increasingly preferred using other means of express-
ing modality, such as be obliged to, perhaps, requirement, it is possible. Such
words or expressions, in contrast to the core and emergent modals under in-
vestigation, which have undergone grammaticalization and auxiliation in the
history of English, may be referred to as lexical expressions of modality (see
Perkins 1983 for a treatment of these).
Lexical modality devices are so numerous that it is scarcely possible to list
them exhaustively. As a tentative ﬁrst step to investigate their frequency over
recent time, I made a substantial list of such expressions, and recorded their
frequency in four British corpora of the Brown Family – BLOB-1931, LOB, FLOB
and BE06. The list with frequencies is reproduced as Table 3.
The surprising result of this exercise, seen at the bottom of Table 3, is that
over this 75-year period, there has actually been a decline of 11.93% in the use of
the lexical expressions listed. This appears to strengthen the “modality deﬁcit”
theory that writers are simply tending to resort less to expressions of modality.
However, another reason, not inconsistent with this, may be that this decline is
linked to the trend of colloquialization (see Hundt and Mair 1999, Leech et al.
2009: 20): i.e. the tendency over time (including the 1931–2006 period) for written
English to become more informal and to move closer to speech. This process has
been seen as a likely explanation for a variety of increase-of-frequency trends
(see Leech et al. 2009: 239–249) observed in the Brown Family, such as the
increase of verb and negative contractions. It can also be applied to decreasing
frequency trends where the phenomena under consideration – such as the
passive voice – are biased towards more formal written registers (such that
their decrease can be seen as a negative consequence of informalization). It is
noticeable that many of the declining lexical modal expressions in Table 3 are
the opposite of colloquial: e.g. the ﬁrst four items on the list be (im)possible/
probable/(un)certain/necessary. The colloquialization argument, however, does
not explain why the frequency of modal expressions seems to have been dimin-
ishing overall.
A further possible explanation is that ﬁnite modalized clauses are being
increasingly rivalled by non-ﬁnite modalized clauses. The core and emergent
108 Geoﬀrey Leech
Table 3: Lexical modal expressions and their (approx.) frequency per million words in written
British English members of the Brown family of corpora 1931–2006
1931 1961 1991 2006 Total
BLOB LOB FLOB BE06
BE (im)possible 223 176 114 102 615
BE (im)probable 21 12 1 2 36
BE (un)certain 37 34 32 19 122
BE (un)necessary 110 124 76 40 350
BE (un)sure 83 89 106 78 356
BE bound to 33 26 22 11 92
BE compelled to 18 9 3 4 34
BE essential 24 34 29 21 108
BE forced to 24 16 29 31 100
BE obliged to 10 17 15 10 52
BE required to 21 31 47 30 129
Certainly 252 235 202 145 834
Compulsion 6 5 5 2 18
Compulsory 10 31 17 16 74
Deﬁnitely 85 22 29 41 177
Doubtless 29 19 13 9 70
Doubt (n, v) 245 248 181 116 790
Guess (I) 9 8 12 12 41
Know 1518 1632 1430 1502 6082
Likelihood 6 5 7 26 44
(Un)likely 149 237 310 324 1020
Maybe 27 85 101 166 379
Necessarily 61 59 65 44 229
Necessity 67 37 33 10 147
Need (n) 176 262 264 235 937
Need (v) 239 303 366 376 1284
No doubt (adv) 97 1 45 30 173
Obligation(s) 37 39 29 16 121
Obligatory 0 1 5 2 8
Perhaps 377 407 389 240 1413
(Im)possibility 83 92 76 86 337
Possibly 98 93 103 84 378
Probably 242 279 239 193 953
Requirement 40 58 107 86 291
Seem 829 934 762 647 3172
Surely 110 126 75 61 372
Think (I/we) 227 196 192 162 777
Undoubtedly 53 46 38 20 157
Total 5676 6028 5569 4999
Total loss of frequency 1931–2006: –11.93%
Note: The frequency for need as a verb excluded the need to construction which has been
counted as an emergent modal in this paper.
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 109
modal constructions are normally ﬁnite, but in dependent clauses can some-
times be replaced, with little change of meaning, by a to-inﬁnitive construction:
(6) Besides, it gives us all something to talk about. (Frown A24)
(7) She turned and smiled frostily, wondering what to do. (Frown R02)
In each of these sentences the to-inﬁnitive clause could substitute for a modal
auxiliary construction: . . . something we can talk about; wondering what she
should do. Since the OE period, there has been a tendency for ﬁnite dependent
clauses to give way to the to-inﬁnitive, another product of grammaticalization.
Los (2005) has studied this development of the to-inﬁnitive in OE and ME, at
the expense of the ﬁnite that + subjunctive, and evidence in Rohdenburg (1995)
and Leech et al. (2009: 181–205) indicate that similar developments have been
happening in ModE, up to and including PDE. However, this is an extremely
slow process restricted to certain dependent clause types and certain modals
such as could, can, may and should. It could scarcely account for the relatively
recent decline of modal frequency as we have observed it in this study.14
The last hypothesis I put forward to account for the “modality deﬁcit” is that
the rather limited increase in emergent modals, as compared with the loss of
core modals, is explicable by a combination of the processes of grammaticaliza-
tion and colloquialization.
The case for explaining the rise of emergent modals by grammaticalization
is a very familiar one. Grammaticalization is particularly associated with the
spoken language, where emergent modals’ increase of frequency is associated
with phonetic reduction, word merger, and word elision, so that the nonstan-
dard spellings gonna, wanna, gotta together with better signal the auxiliation
of these forms in transcribed speech. Colloquialization, in its turn, extends the
increasing use of emergent modals to the written language, but this takes place
gradually, and can be inhibited by a “prestige barrier”, the taboo that discourages
the use of highly colloquial forms in written (especially printed) texts. (The pres-
tige barrier seems especially relevant to the avoidance of (have) got to and (had)
better in the Brown Family corpora, where they are rare).
14 This obviously merits further research, but to provide some justiﬁcation of my cursory treat-
ment of the “to-inﬁnitive replacement theory”, I examined a random sample of 200 core modals
in the Brown Family (excluding AmE06), and found 2 convincing examples and 4 uncertain
examples of modal constructions that could be replaced by to-inﬁnitive constructions. Accord-
ing to this rough experiment, then, 1% (or, counting uncertain cases, 3%) of modals could be
considered replaceable by to-inﬁnitives.
110 Geoﬀrey Leech
If colloquialization, combined with the postulated “prestige barrier”, is to
account for the lower and slower rise of emergent modals in the printed texts
of the Brown Family, then we need some further contrasting evidence that the
rise of the emergent modals has been greater in the recent history of conversa-
tional English. The evidence from diachronic corpora, as already explained, is
limited to DCPSE, which in practice leaves us with the two mini-corpora, DSEU
and DICE, apparently showing a signiﬁcant rise in the use of emergent modals,
though not a rise commensurate with the fall in the use of core modals. (The
evidence of DSEU and DICE is less dramatic probably because of its restriction
to BrE and the considerable proportion of public speech – including radio
broadcasts, proceedings of Parliament, law court discourse, etc. – that these
mini-corpora contain). There are, however, two more indirect forms of corpus
evidence which help to substantiate a more dramatic increase in the use of
emergent modals in spontaneous conversational dialogue.
One of these additional forms of evidence comes from the frequency data
provided by the two approximately comparable corpora of conversation already
described (see fn. 7), the LCSAE (AmE) and the BNCdemog (BrE). These two
corpora are, of course, synchronic (both dating from the early to mid 1990s),
but we can learn something of importance from them: they show a much higher
incidence of emergent modals than is found even in the 1990–1992 DICE mini-
corpus, as is shown in Tables 4 and 5.
Tables 4 and 5 show comparable frequency patterns for AmE and BrE con-
versation, except that in AmE (Table 5) the trend is more extreme. In AmE, the
diﬀerential of frequency between the core modals and emergent modals, which
was so vast in Figure 1, has narrowed to the extent that the approximate fre-
quency pmw of emergent modals is 55% of the approximate frequency of core
modals. (This compares with only 14% of core modals in the Brown Corpus –
written AmE of 1961).
It is striking that in AmE conversation the frequencies of the three most
common emergent modals (BE going to, HAVE to and WANT to) have here “out-
performed” all but the three most common of the core modals (can, will and
would). If we focus for a moment on AmE conversation and on the semantic ﬁeld
of obligation/necessity, it is worth noting that the canonical core modal must
here is less common than three competing emergent modals HAVE to, NEED to
and HAVE got to. We can conclude that in AmE conversation of the 1990s,
although we have no diachronic evidence of recent change, the emergent modals
have been seriously rivaling the core modals, particularly in certain semantic
areas, so that the thesis that the loss of frequency of core modals has been inﬂu-
enced by rise in the frequency of emergent modals is far more persuasive for
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 111
Table 4: Approximate frequencies of core modals and emergent modals in BrE conversation
(in the demographic subcorpus of the BNC)
Modals (full and reduced forms) Semi-modals (full and reduced forms)
raw
frequency
approx.
frequency
per million
words
raw
frequency
Approx.
frequency
per million
words
can 23,447 5575 (BE) going to 10,145 2,412
will 28,301 6729 WANT to 6,352 1,510
would 15,712 3736 HAVE to 6,796 1,616
could 8,075 1919 NEED to 880 209
should 4,396 1045 (HAVE) got to 5,116 1,216
might 3,602 856 BE suppose(d) to 952 226
may 637 151 BE able to 883 210
must 3,014 717 (had) better 692 165
ought (to) 454 108
shall 1,652 393
need(n’t) 76 18
Total 89,366 21,247 Total 31,816 7,564
Table 5: Approximate frequency count of modals and emergent modals in AmE conversation
(in the Longman Corpus of Spoken American English)
Modals Emergent modals
approx. raw
frequencya
estimated
frequency
per million
wordsb
(Numbers show
combined
rank-ordering
approx. Raw
frequencya
estimated
frequency
per million
wordsb
can 25,607 5121 (BE) going to 19,709 3942
will 25,312 5062 HAVE to 12,944 2589
would 24,848 4970 WANT to 11,548 2309
could 10,545 2109 NEED to 3,874 775
should 5,946 1189 (HAVE) got to 3,244 649
might 3,188 638 BE supposed to 1,819 364
may 1,981 396 BE able to 1,357 271
must 1,485 297 (had) better 641 128
ought (to) 343 69
shall 251 50
need(n’t) 2 0
Total 99,508 19,901 Total 55,136 11,027
a As the LCSAE corpus was untagged, and it was impracticable in most cases to undertake
a manual count of occurrences, for most items it was necessary to estimate raw frequency
by a “thinning” procedure whereby a representative subset of concordance examples was
examined, and the resulting count scaled up.
b The estimate size of the Longman Corpus of Spoken American English is 5,000,000 words.
112 Geoﬀrey Leech
AmE conversation (often regarded as a “bell wether” variety in the vanguard of
English language change globally) than for other varieties we have examined.
The lack of diachronic evidence can be partially overcome by my second kind
of corpus evidence that helps to support the “grammaticalization + colloquiali-
zation” theory. This is the evidence of an apparent time study of the BNCdemog
conversational subcorpus. The BNCdemog data (albeit not complete) on the ages
of speakers are segmented into age-bands 0–14, 15–24, 25–34, 35–44, 45–59 and
60+. It is possible to plot the frequencies of core modals and emergent modals
on an apparent time scale, on the assumption that the ages of speakers will
relatively closely reﬂect the state of the language at the time when they were
acquiring it.
Figure 9 shows a rather convincing picture of how the frequency of use of
emergent modals is negatively correlated with age. From the oldest to the
youngest age group, the frequency pmw climbs steadily to 50%. The upper part
of the chart showing frequency of core modals is, however, less regular: the
expected decline of the core modals is only evident in the later part of the
time-line, where speakers at time of the BNC recordings (in the early 1990s)
were younger than 35. From this it appears15 that the decline of core modals set
15 There are various reasons why the application of the BNC age-bands to apparent time studies
is not entirely reliable: for details see Leech et al. (2009: 104n).
Figure 9: Apparent time chart of core modals and emergent modals, based on the BNC (BrE)
demographically-sampled (conversational) subcorpus
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 113
in only around the 1960s – a tentative conclusion not at variance with the pro-
ﬁle given by Figure 1. However, the important point about Figure 9 is that it
shows a consistently climbing frequency of emergent modals – and therefore
provides indirect evidence of the rise in emergent modal use that would account
for the competition that would lead to a declining use of core modals.
6 Summary and conclusion
The most plausible explanation I have been able to provide for the decreasing
use of core modals is that grammaticalization of the emergent modals in speech
has been associated with increasing frequency, progressively leading to compe-
tition with the core modals, which consequently have been undergoing decline
in recent English. Through colloquialization, the rise in emergent modals has
been gradually ﬁltering into the written language, but this process involves a
time lag, and is probably impeded by a “prestige barrier”. Hence in the Brown
Family of written corpora, the increase in emergent modals has been slow, and
has not oﬀset the increasing decline of core modals.
Other explanations I have suggested have not been dismissed. Although the
hypothesis that lexical expressions have ﬁlled up the “modality deﬁcit” seems to
have no empirical support, the hypothesis that inﬁnitive clauses have been (to
some extent) replacing modalized ﬁnite clauses may account for part of the
“modality deﬁcit”. Also, the hypothesis that writers of English are modalizing
their clauses less is still worth considering. The research described here is tenta-
tive and based on some challengeable assumptions. It is obvious that there is a
great deal more research to be done in these areas. “Where have all the modals
gone?” remains a puzzling question.
References
Declerk, Renaat. 2010. Future time reference expressed by be to in Present-Day English. English
Language and Linguistics 14(2): 271–291.
Facchinetti, Roberta, Manfred Krug and Frank Palmer (eds.). 2003. Modality in Contemporary
English. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hopper, Paul J. and Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 2003 [1993]. Grammaticalization. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: Benjamins. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hundt, Marianne and Christian Mair. 1999. “Agile” and “uptight” genres: The corpus-based
approach to language change in progress. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 4:
221–242.
114 Geoﬀrey Leech
Krug, Manfred. 2000. Emerging English Modals: A Corpus Study of Grammaticalization. Berlin
and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2003. Modals on the move: The English modal auxiliaries 1961–1992. In:
Roberta Facchinetti, Manfred Krug and Frank Palmer (eds.), Modality in Contemporary
English, 223–240. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2011. The modals ARE declining. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics
16(4): 191–220.
Leech, Geoﬀrey, Marianne Hundt, Christian Mair and Nicholas Smith. 2009. Change in Contem-
porary English: A Grammatical Study. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Los, Bettelou. 2005. The Rise of the to Inﬁnitive. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Millar, Neil. 2009. Modal verbs in TIME. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 14(2): 191–
220.
Nelson, Gerald, Sean Wallis and Bas Aarts. 2002. Exploring Natural Language: Working with
the British Component of the International Corpus of English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Perkins, Michael R. 1983. Modal Expressions in English. London: Frances Pinter. Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoﬀrey Leech and Jan Svartvik. 1985. A Comprehensive
Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
Rayson, Paul, Damien Berridge and Brian Francis. 2004. Extending the Cochran rule for the
comparison of word frequencies between corpora. In: Gérald Purnelle, Cédrick Fairon and
Anne Dister (eds.), Le poids des mots: Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on
Statistical analysis of textual data (JADT 2004), Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, March 10–12,
2004, Volume 2, 926–936. Louvain: Presses universitaires de Louvain.
Rohdenburg, Günter. 1995. On the replacement of ﬁnite complement clauses by inﬁnitives in
English. English Studies 16: 367–388.
An essay on the declining frequency of core modal auxiliaries 115
II Peripheral modality
Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic
and transatlantic variation
1 Introduction
The ﬁrst decade of the 21st century has seen a number of interesting develop-
ments in the study of modality in English.1 First, there has been a strong interest
in recent changes in the frequency of use of diﬀerent members of the English
verbal modal system, with the observation of a general decline in the frequency
of the core modals (can, could, may, might, shall, should, will/’ll, would/’d and
must) and a rise in the frequency of so-called semi- or quasi-modals, such as
have to, be able to, be going to, and be supposed to. A key author in this domain
is Geoﬀrey Leech (Leech 2003; Leech et al. 2009: 71–117; Leech this volume), but
see also Millar (2009) and Aarts (in print, this volume), who brings also non-
verbal modal constructions into the picture. Second, more so than before, there
have been studies of verbal modal constructions in varieties of English other
than British English. In this domain a central ﬁgure is Peter Collins (Collins 2009a,
2009b, 2009c), but there is also work by Dollinger (2008), Biewer (2009), Bao
(2010), Deuber (2010), van der Auwera, Noël, and De Wit (2012), and others.
Third, more than before, and as a consequence perhaps of an awareness of the
frequency shifts already referred to, attention has gone to markers of modality
other than the core modal auxiliaries. Manfred Krug has done pioneering work
on have (got) to and want to in his book on emerging English modals (Krug
2000). Since then, detailed studies have been done on marginal modals such
as need (Taeymans 2006; Loureiro-Porto 2009; van der Auwera and Taeymans
2009) and quasi-modals such as need to (Nokkonen 2006), be to (Goldberg and
van der Auwera 2012) and be supposed to (Noël and van der Auwera 2009),
and also on non-verbal expressions of modality – Van linden (2012), for example,
concentrates on expressions with “modal-evaluative” adjectives such as essential,
necessary, and appropriate, and verbo-nominal expressions of modality (e.g. have
need, there is need) have been explored by Loureiro-Porto (2010) and Van linden,
1 This work was made possible through the ﬁnancial assistance of the Belgian Federal Science
Ministry (within the programme of interuniversity attraction poles, Grant P6/44), the University
of Hong Kong (Seed Funding Programme for Basic Research, contract no. 200911159051), the
Research Foundation Flanders – FWO (postdoctoral fellowship no. 1.2.767.11.N.00), and the
Research Council of the University of Leuven (project GOA 12/010). Special thanks are due
to Jeroen Vanderbiesen (Antwerp) for access to his work on German and to Erik Hoekstra
(Leeuwarden) and Paul Gybels (Antwerp) for their help on West Frisian and Yiddish.
Davidse, and Brems (2011). Finally, more so than before, English expressions of
modality have been studied from a cross-linguistic perspective (e.g. Mortelmans,
Boye, and van der Auwera 2009).
The present study on had better, ’d better and better ﬁts all aspects of this
picture in the following way. First, we will examine these three modal construc-
tions2 from a historical point of view: we will review the earlier work by van
der Auwera and De Wit (2010) on frequency changes in the second half of the
20th century and we will place these changes in a wider time frame, that is, we
will go back to the start of the 18th century. The timely arrival of the study by
Denison and Cort (2010) obviated the need to go back further in time, because
they established that though the constructional history of had better can be
traced back to Old English, it was only in the 18th century that the pattern
began to be combined with inanimate and dummy NP subjects, read “began to
be used in an auxiliary-like fashion” (Denison and Cort 2010: 354–355). Second,
we will add an English-internal comparative perspective. As in van der Auwera
and De Wit (2010), we will compare British and American English, but in the
present contribution we will do so on the basis of data from much larger
corpora. The pilot study was based on the Brown family of corpora, i.e., LOB,
Brown, FLOB and Frown, whereas the current study will get its present-day
data from the British National Corpus (BNC) and the Corpus of Contemporary
American English (COCA), which have the additional advantage that they also
contain spoken data. Third, the had better, ’d better and better constructions
are, of course, peripheral modal constructions. That is to say, they are tradi-
tionally classiﬁed as falling outside the “core modal” category and even the
“marginal modal” category (dare, need, ought to and used to), and are often
listed instead together with have to, be able to, be going to, be supposed to, be
bound to, etc. as members of “a somewhat open-ended category” referred to as
semi-modals, quasi-modals or periphrastic modals (Depraetere and Reed 2006:
272). Fourth, we will brieﬂy look at the English constructions from a cross-
linguistic, more speciﬁcally West Germanic perspective.
We will not deal with all four aspects separately or in consecutive sections,
however. Our main aims in this chapter are to document the frequency of the
three constructions in present-day English more accurately3 than has so far
been achieved (by Leech 2003, Leech et al. 2009 and van der Auwera and De
2 Here, and throughout this chapter, we are using the term construction in a non-theoretical
sense. It is not part of our objectives to argue either in favour or against treating had better,
’d better and better as three separate constructions in a Construction Grammar.
3 However, like in the previous studies, our ambition is not aimed at statistical sophistication,
largely for its lack of relevance: in most cases the frequency diﬀerences are big enough to make
statistics unnecessary or they would concern details that detract from the generalizations. We
will therefore only make sparing reference to test results for statistical signiﬁcance.
120 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Wit 2010) and to complement Denison and Cort’s (2010) diachronic study with
“older” frequency data, which will be sourced from the “Extended Version” of
the Corpus of Late Modern English Texts (CLMETEV) (De Smet 2005, 2008), so
as to trace the development of had better from the time it had become gramma-
ticalized as a modal construction. The structure of this chapter is as follows. In
section 2 we will review some of the literature on had better, ’d better and better,
and take a position in the debate on their meaning. Section 3 discusses the dif-
ference in frequency between the BETTER group of constructions and a parallel
BEST group in present-day British and American English, as well as their fre-
quency development in British English from the start of the 18th century. Section
4 compares the frequencies of the three BETTER constructions in the two geo-
graphical present-day varieties and again historically in the British variety.
Section 5 looks at the frequency distribution of the person category of the sub-
jects of the BETTER constructions, serving as a preamble to section 6, where we
consider the incidence of subjectless better and its place in the history of the
BETTER constructions. In section 7 we reﬂect on the word class of the word better
and of the verb following it in the three constructions. Section 8 examines the
extent to which the BETTER constructions are still accompanied by a than clause.
Section 9 contains a short postscript on BETTER constructions in other West
Germanic languages. Section 10 is the conclusion.
2 Some background: BETTER as a deontic and
optative comparative modal
Van der Auwera and De Wit (2010: 127) coined the term comparative modals for a
family of morphosyntactic conﬁgurations with a moderate degree of formal and
semantic homogeneity, cf. (1). The family has two superlative members (with
best), a handful of comparative ones, in the more narrow sense of “compara-
tive” (with better, rather or sooner), and also some equative ones (with as or
just as).
(1) “Comparative modals” (van der Auwera and De Wit 2010)
a. had best, ’d best
b. had better, ’d better, better
would rather, ’d rather, had rather, should rather
would sooner, ’d sooner, had sooner, should sooner
c. would ( just) as soon as
may ( just) as well
might ( just) as well
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 121
The homogeneity is far from perfect, but van der Auwera and De Wit (2010: 127)
argue that this classiﬁcation is better than the ones that have been proposed, (as
in 2) or assumed, as in (3) and (4) in the literature.
(2) “Modal idioms” (Quirk et al. 1985: 141–142)
had better, ’d better, better
would rather, ’d rather, had rather, should rather
have got to, be to
and “might be placed in the same category” (idioms) (Quirk et al. 1985: 142):
had best, ’d best
would ( just) as soon as
may ( just) as well
might ( just) as well
(3) Palmer (1979: 164–165)
had better, ’d better, better
would rather, ’d rather, had rather, should rather
let’s
(4) Mitchell (2003)
had better, ’d better, better
might ( just) as well
These other groupings all leave out a few constructions (e.g. the sooner ones) or
include constructions that are more distantly related (have got to and be to for
Quirk et al. 1985; let’s for Palmer 1979).
All of the constructions in (1) are rather rare, but the three with better are
among the least rare. If we put had better, ’d better and better together – and
we will then refer to them with small capitals, this BETTER family is the most fre-
quent one. Van der Auwera and De Wit (2010: 130–131) report on frequencies
found in the corpora of the Brown family, documenting written British and
American English of the 60s and 90s. These frequencies are reproduced in Table 1.
This paper focuses on the BETTER constructions, though we will include obser-
vations on the BEST constructions (had best, ’d best, and best) as well.
The BETTER part of Table 1 overlaps with the (had) better parts of Table 4 in
Leech (2003: 229)4 – and of the bar chart in Figure 5.2 in Leech et al. (2009: 97) –
and van der Auwera and De Wit (2010: 130) consequently agree with Leech
(2003: 230) that there is a decline in the frequency of BETTER, both in the UK
4 Leech’s (2003) ﬁgures are (unexplainably) diﬀerent, though.
122 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
and the US, in the latter half of the 20th century. This is at odds with “an overall
signiﬁcant increase in the use of semi-modals” (Leech et al. 2009: 98), but the
BETTER numbers in Table 1 are small and it will therefore be interesting to see
whether the Late Modern English data can conﬁrm that they are indicative of a
longer downward trend.
Before we turn to our observations on past and present frequencies of the
BETTER constructions, however, a few words on their meaning might be in order.
Linguists that have worked on BETTER agree that they express advice and the
majority also explicitly say that at least the typical use involves advice given by
the speaker (or writer) (Palmer 1979: 69, 1990: 82; Jacobsson 1980: 52; Perkins
1983: 63; Declerck 1991: 355; Westney 1995: 181; Huddleston and Pullum 2002:
1996; Denison and Cort 2010: 366; van der Auwera and De Wit 2010: 132). A clear
example is shown in (5).
(5) “You had better go,” he said.
(BNC HWA 3747)
There is, however, a second use, illustrated in (6).
(6) Helen Mirren stars in this week’s biggie: Prime Suspect about a female
detective who gets her big break chasing a murderer. It dominates the
schedules with two, two-hour slots on Sunday and Monday, so it had better
be good. For once, it seems it will be.
(BNC H84 142)
In our opinion, there is no sense in which the speaker gives advice here and
we consequently do not agree with those, like Collins (2009a: 77), who consider
better to be “essentially monosemous”. Instead, we agree with Mitchell (2003:
Table 1: Frequencies of the comparative modals, clustered on the basis of the adverbial
LOB
UK 60s
FLOB
UK 90s
Brown
US 60s
Frown
US 90s
Total
BETTER 40 31 36 33 140
RATHER 22 18 12 15 67
(JUST) AS WELL 11 10 10 12 43
BEST 0 0 0 2 2
AS SOON AS 1 0 0 0 1
SOONER 1 0 0 0 1
Total 75 59 58 62 254
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 123
145) that in examples like this one (but (6) is not one that Mitchell discusses)
what is at stake is not the speaker’s advice but the speaker’s hope. In (6) the
writer expresses his/her hope that a scheduled two-part TV show will be worth
watching. Van der Auwera and De Wit (2010: 133) called this an “optative” use,
to distinguish it from the advice use, which they considered to be “deontic”.
We will adopt the same terminology here. Optative is the accepted term for
a grammatical mood that indicates a wish or hope. Mitchell (2003: 145) makes
reference to wishes as well, saying that what is involved in such cases is “a
wish that a proposition whose truth is unknown turns out to be true”. We
disagree with him, however, when he connects this with epistemic modality,
calling it epistemic volition. To our mind, this is too much of an extension of
the notional category of epistemic modality, which we would like to restrict
to judgements of the (un)certainty or probability of a proposition (cf. van der
Auwera and Plungian 1998: 81). Wishing something to be true is quite diﬀerent
from judging it to be true.
Denison and Cort (2010: 370) disagree with Mitchell as well, but in a diﬀer-
ent way, holding that examples of what we have termed the optative use “incor-
porate simultaneously an epistemic and a deontic element”. Discussing a longer
version of an example Mitchell selected from the BNC, which we will reproduce
here as (7), they detect – in addition to “I hope it’s important”, which they agree
with Mitchell is epistemic in nature – “two linked meanings: that someone (here
the addressee) is in some way responsible for the situation, and that that person
should endeavour – or should have endeavoured – to produce a favourable out-
come (plus perhaps the suggestion that they will suﬀer adverse consequences
otherwise)”.
(7) “Kurt here. I have urgent information. There have been serious develop-
ments. Can we meet? You’d want to know at once.”
[. . .]
“I’ll meet you in the lobby of the Frankfurter Hof half an hour from now.
It had better be important.”
(BNC ARK 2630)
We do not want to dispute the presence of such a “deontic element”, which
Denison and Cort (2010: 371) further characterize as a “retrospective obligation” –
note, not as a piece of advice. In the case of our example (6) the writer probably
holds the programmers of a particular television network responsible for ensur-
ing an enjoyable programme, but of course the show has long been scheduled
and (6) is not a piece of advice addressed to the programmers to replace it if a
certain condition is not met. We are disputing, however, that the hope or wish
element is epistemic, for the reason we have speciﬁed.
124 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Denison and Cort (2010: 374) note that what, no doubt for convenience, they
continue to call epistemic uses – but which according to them also incorporate
a deontic element – come later than the deontic ones, “a classic symptom of
grammaticalization among modals”. They call an example dating from 1712 an
“unusually early” one, but they do not provide any evidence for this. Testing
this hypothesis constitutes another reason for why we will include data from a
Late Modern English corpus.
3 The present and past frequency of BETTER
and BEST
When one compares the frequencies of the BETTER and BEST constructions in the
second half of the 20th century, it is very clear that the BETTER constructions are
overwhelmingly more frequent than the BEST ones. Table 1 in section 2 shows
this to be the case in each of the four Brown family corpora. As a matter of
fact, the BEST construction is attested only in Frown, i.e. in American English of
the nineties, with two instances. Given the overall extreme rarity of BEST, and the
size of the corpora in this family (one million words each), this need not, of
course, mean that BEST only occurs in American English, and not in British
English, nor that it showed up in American English only very recently. Instead,
it is a very clear invitation to study the spread and relative frequency of BETTER
and BEST in larger corpora.
For a synchronic comparison with the FLOB and Frown frequency data in
Table 1, we turned to the BNC (close to 100 million words overall, roughly 90%
written and 10% spoken) and the COCA (close to 400 million words, roughly
80% written and 20% spoken).5 Tables 2 and 3 present the frequencies of the
BETTER and BEST constructions in the spoken and written parts of the BNC and
the COCA, respectively. We include absolute frequencies (n) as well as normalized
frequencies (per million words), to allow easy comparison of the frequency data
sourced from all the corpora used in this study.6
5 The COCA keeps expanding. At the time the data for this chapter were sourced (June 2010)
it counted 402 million words. At the time of writing (September 2011) the counter stood at 425
million. The version of the COCA used covers the period 1990–2010. The BNC covers the period
1980–1993.
6 The absolute frequencies were arrived at through queries in both the BNC and the COCA for
had/’d better/best (not) immediately followed by an inﬁnitive, and for better/best (not) imme-
diately followed by an inﬁnitive and not preceded by either a verb or to. The BNC was searched
using the Zurich BNCweb Query System. Both tables will contain some noise. The normalized
frequencies in the Total columns of Tables 2 and 3 naturally come quite close to the normalized
Written frequencies because in both the BNC and the COCA the proportion of written texts is
much larger than the proportion of transcripts of spoken discourse.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 125
Table 2: Frequencies of BETTER and BEST constructions in the BNC
Spoken Written Total
n n/million n n/million n n/million
had better 31 3.00 449 5.14 480 4.92
’d better 483 46.70 1491 17.08 1974 20.22
better 405 39.16 295 3.38 700 7.17
Total BETTER 88.86 25.60 32.31
had best 0 0 33 0.38 33 0.34
’d best 10 0.97 104 1.19 114 1.17
best 1 0.10 8 0.09 9 0.09
Total BEST 1.07 1.66 1.60
Table 3: Frequencies of BETTER and BEST constructions in the COCA
Spoken Written Total
n n/million n n/million n n/million
had better 166 2.03 1093 3.41 1259 3.13
’d better 630 7.71 3055 9.53 3685 9.16
better 1499 18.35 4170 13.00 5669 14.09
Total BETTER 28.09 25.94 26.38
had best 3 0.04 97 0.30 100 0.25
’d best 5 0.06 226 0.70 231 0.57
best 4 0.05 45 0.14 49 0.12
Total BEST 0.15 1.14 0.94
The data from the BNC (Table 2) and the COCA (Table 3) show, ﬁrst, that the
BETTER constructions are indeed vastly more frequent than the BEST construc-
tions and, second, that the latter do not just occur in American English but
also in British English. British examples are (8), illustrating had best, and (9),
illustrating both ’d best and best.
(8) “Well, well! Now my clerk and I,” he trumpeted, “would like to question
each of you alone. Though,” he smiled at the girl, “Mistress Philippa and
Geoﬀrey had best stay together. Master Colebrooke, there’s a chamber
below. Perhaps our guests could wait there?”
(BNC written K95 180)
(9) he’s ever so posh, and we’re chatting away telling me all about pension,
telling me all about the pension and that you see so I said to him would
you like a tea? Oh I should love one, ooh, so I thought, best not give him
a bleeding mug I’d best get my best china out, you know?
(BNC spoken KCP 6270)
126 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Other observations are that both BETTER and BEST are signiﬁcantly more frequent
in British than in American English according to Fisher’s exact tests (p < 0.0001)7
and that the higher frequency of BETTER in British English compared to American
English is purely attributable to a much higher frequency in the spoken register.
In both geographic varieties there is very little diﬀerence between the overall
frequencies of BEST in the spoken and written registers (1.07 vs. 1.66 per million
in the BNC; 0.15 vs. 1.14 in the COCA). In American English there is also very
little register variation in the case of BETTER (28.09 spoken vs. 25.94 written).
In British English, however, the frequency diﬀerence between the two registers
is huge in the case of BETTER (88.86 spoken vs. 25.60 written). This is not equally
true of all three forms of BETTER, but we will postpone being more precise about
this until the next section.
Something that Tables 2 and 3 do not reveal, but which becomes imme-
diately apparent when scrolling through the corpus concordance lines, is that
in written language both BETTER and BEST mainly occur in represented speech.
To show this, we have quantiﬁed the BNC data for this parameter. The results are
presented in Table 4.
Table 4: Spoken language vs. reported and unreported written language in the BNC (based on
samples of 200 if total n in Table 2 >200)
spoken written
unreported
written
reported
direct
written
reported
indirect
written
reported
free indirect
Total
n % n % n % n % n % n
had better 12 6 50 25 93 46.5 26 13 19 9.5 200
’d better 50 25 7 3.5 131 65.5 6 3 6 3 200
better 128 64 14 7 49 24.5 2 1 7 3.5 200
BETTER 190 31.67 71 11.83 273 45.5 34 5.67 32 5.33 600
had best 0 0 4 12.12 23 69.7 5 15.15 1 3.03 33
’d best 10 8.77 2 1.75 102 89.47 0 0 0 0 114
best 1 11.11 2 22.22 6 66.67 0 0 0 0 9
BEST 11 7.05 8 5.13 131 83.97 5 3.21 1 0.65 156
Notice that only just over 5% of all written instances of the BEST construction
and less than 12% of the written instances of BETTER occur outside reported
speech contexts in written texts and that 84% of all instances of BEST and
45.5% of all instances of BETTER occur in directly reported speech in written
texts. If one adds the percentages of the instances in spoken language to the
latter two percentages, this results in very high ﬁgures for both BETTER and
7 We use Fisher’s exact tests (Pedersen 1996) to test for statistical signiﬁcance because they
are reliable for low frequency data and do not make distributional assumptions that are not
justiﬁed in dealing with natural language data (see Stefanowitsch and Gries 2003: 217–218).
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 127
BEST (77% and 91%, respectively). One cannot conclude from them that BETTER
and BEST are more typical of spoken language than of written language, because
reported speech is an inherent part of written language, but one could conclude
that they are both cognitively entrenched as conversational features. Collectively,
language users clearly use the comparative modal constructions most when rep-
resenting speech in their writing.
Interestingly, some of the British had best constructions occur in represented
speech in “historical ﬁction”, i.e. present-day ﬁction set in the past, as in (8)
above, and some represented speech examples of ’d best have a distinct dialectal
ﬂavour, as in (10).
(10) “Whatever th’thinks, th’d best mind th’self. Miss Jarman’s gaﬀer now old
Mister’s dead.”
(BNC written C85 1162)
This might suggest that BEST constructions are “signs of the past”, i.e. that they
were once more frequent than they are now. To answer this question, as well
as the one formulated in section 2 about whether the recent decline in the fre-
quency of BETTER (Table 1) might be part of a longer downward trend, we have
studied the frequency of BETTER and BEST constructions in the CLMETEV, a
corpus of Late Modern English data, containing slightly over 15 million words.
Table 5 presents their absolute and normalized frequencies in the three com-
ponents of this corpus, roughly covering the 18th century, the ﬁrst half of the
19th century and the second half of the 19th century.
Table 5: Frequencies of BETTER and BEST constructions in the CLMETEV
1710–1780 1780–1850 1850–1920
n n/million n n/million n n/million
had better 59 19.42 234 40.88 290 46.39
‘d better 2 0.66 30 5.24 120 19.19
Better 3 0.99 13 2.27 47 7.52
Total BETTER 21.07 48.39 73.1
had best 6 1.98 16 2.80 18 2.88
‘d best 0 0.00 7 1.22 8 1.28
Best 0 0.00 1 0.17 3 0.48
Total BEST 1.98 4.19 4.64
Total 70 23.04 301 52.59 486 77.74
The normalized totals for BETTER and BEST in Table 5 clearly show a rise in the
frequency of both constructions in the course of the Late Modern English Period
128 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
(respectively, from 21.07 to 73.1 tokens per million words, and from 1.98 to 4.64).
However, when compared with the normalized frequencies for the written part of
the BNC in Table 2 (25.60 for BETTER and 1.66 for BEST), the normalized ﬁgures in
Table 5 indicate that both the BETTER and the BEST constructions were more fre-
quent in the 19th century than they are now (with 19th-century ﬁgures of 48.39
and 73.1 for BETTER and 4.19 and 4.64 for BEST), though in the case of extremely
low-frequency BEST the diﬀerence is of course small. The ascent of the two
constructions must therefore have been halted at the start of the 20th century,
followed by a fairly steep decline, especially in the case of BETTER. A comparison
of the frequency of BETTER in the CLMETEV (Table 5) and the LOB (Table 1)
indeed suggests that the late-20th-century decline in the frequency of BETTER,
which is obvious from a comparison of the LOB and FLOB ﬁgures in Table 1, is
likely to have started before the second half of the 20th century, given the com-
paratively large diﬀerence between the frequency in the last CLMETEV sub-
corpus (73.1), which spans the period from 1850 to 1920, and in the LOB
(40), which contains early-1960s data. Note, however, that the relative shares of
BETTER and BEST constructions remained relatively constant across the 18th–
20th centuries; none of the changes in the proportion of BETTER vs. BEST con-
structions proved statistically signiﬁcant.
In sections 4 to 8 below we will leave extremely low-frequency BEST behind
and zoom in on better, ’d better and better.
4 The present and past frequency of had better,
’d better and better
Biber et al. (1999: 487) claim that the BETTER modals are “considerably more
common” in UK English than in US English. We observed in the previous section,
on the basis of a comparison of Tables 2 and 3, that this is true only of spoken
language. While the diﬀerences between the totals for the written parts of the
BNC and the COCA are negligible (25.60/million for the BNC and 25.94/million
for the COCA), the diﬀerences between their spoken parts are signiﬁcant (88.86/
million for the BNC and 28.09/million for the COCA). In this section, however, we
want to have a closer look at the frequencies of the individual BETTER construc-
tions. Does Biber et al.’s claim hold for each of them and do they occupy the
same frequency rank in both registers in each variety? For convenience, we
have extracted the normalized frequencies of the BETTER constructions from
Tables 2 and 3 and we repeat them here in Table 6.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 129
Table 6: Normalized frequencies of the BETTER constructions in the BNC and the COCA
BNC written COCA written BNC spoken COCA spoken
had better 5.14 3.41 3 2.03
’d better 17.08 9.53 46.7 7.71
better 3.38 13 39.16 18.35
Total 25.6 25.94 88.86 28.09
Table 6 reveals that the higher British than American frequency claim only holds
for ’d better in both registers (written BNC 17.08 vs. COCA 9.53; spoken BNC 46.7
vs. COCA 7.71). Better is considerably more frequent in American than in British
writing (COCA 13 vs. BNC 3.38), and had better is more or less equally rare in
both registers in both geographic varieties. The table also shows that there are
intervarietal diﬀerences between the relative frequency positions of the three
constructions. In the COCA, in both written and spoken data, the better con-
struction is most frequent, whereas in the BNC, again in both written and spoken
data ’d better is most frequent. In American English the three constructions
occupy the same frequency rank in both registers, while in British English, had
better is slightly more frequent than better in writing, but drastically less frequent
than it in speech. Tables 7 and 8 rearrange the numbers from Table 6 to make
this clearer, arranging them from left to right in descending order of frequency.
Table 7: Normalized frequency of better, ’d better and had better in the COCA
better ’d better had better
Written 13 9.53 3.41
Spoken 18.35 7.71 2.03
Table 8: Normalized frequency of ’d better, better and had better in the BNC
’d better had better better had better
Written 17.08 5.14 3.38
Spoken 46.7 39.16 3
For British English, these frequencies correspond to what was found in the LOB
and FLOB corpora. Table 9 juxtaposes the BNC frequencies with those in LOB
and FLOB. Since the latter are written corpora, the BNC ﬁgures to compare
them with are those for the written part.
130 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Table 9: Frequency of ’d better, better and had better in LOB, FLOB and the BNC
’d better better had better better
LOB 27 8 5
FLOB 19 6 6
BNC written 17.08 5.14 3.38
BNC spoken 46.7 39.16 3
For American English, the Brown and Frown ﬁgures show a diﬀerent hierarchy, but
it should be kept in mind that these ﬁgures are very low. Table 10 contrasts them
with the COCA frequencies.
Table 10: Frequency of better, ’d better and had better in Brown, Frown and the COCA
better had better ’d better had better better
Brown 15 11 10
Frown 12 11 10
COCA written 13 9.53 3.41
COCA spoken 18.35 7.71 2.03
The relevance of the frequency ranking of the individual BETTER constructions
resides in the extent to which they provide conﬁrmation for the gramma-
ticalization cline represented in Figure 1, which Denison and Cort (2010: 354)
suggest to be observable diachronically.
Figure 1: The history of BETTER
As a potential textbook case of the phonological reduction that is often involved
in grammaticalization, had better would be the older form and better the younger
one, the had part having become reduced to Ø with ’d as an intermediate form.
In Britain, the language now prefers the mid stage construction ’d better, both
in the written and the spoken register, while written and spoken US English
favours the youngest form better. If frequency can be related to grammaticaliza-
tion, the frequency ranking of the individual BETTER constructions in American
English represented in Table 7 (when read from right to left) suggests that Amer-
ican English has gone furthest down the grammaticalization path shown in
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 131
Figure 1 in that the oldest construction is used the least and the youngest one
the most. The frequency ranking for British English in Table 8, on the other
hand, suggests that British English is lagging behind. In spite of the fact that
compared to Americans the British make much more use not only of ’d better
but also of better in spoken language, they use better less often than ’d better,
unlike Americans. In addition, better is the least frequent construction in written
English in Britain, while it is the most frequently used one in American written
English.
The grammaticalization scenario shown in Figure 1 is still in need of dia-
chronic empirical substantiation, however. For British English, we have tested
it on the Late Modern English data from the CLMETEV. Table 11 adds relative
frequencies to the absolute and normalized ones given in Table 5. The data
tentatively conﬁrm the proposed scenario, in that the supposed source construc-
tion, had better, starts oﬀ with the highest relative frequency (92.19%) and is
steadily encroached upon by the constructions that form later stages on the
grammaticalization path, viz. ’d better and better respectively. Figure 2 shows
these developments in a graph, with the vertical axis indicating the relative
share of each of the three constructions (%). It adds the present-day English
data to the picture, which continue the tendencies observed for the Late Modern
data to such an extent that ’d better has overtaken had better. Fisher’s exact
tests indicate that the changes from the ﬁrst to the second Late Modern English
subperiod are not statistically signiﬁcant for any of the BETTER constructions,
but the changes from the second to the third subperiod are signiﬁcant (highest
p-value < 0.008), as are those from the third subperiod to present-day English
(highest p-value < 0.03).
Table 11: Frequency of had better, ’d better and better in the CLMETEV
1710–1780 1780–1850 1850–1920
n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil %
had better 59 19.42 92.19 234 40.88 84.48 290 46.39 63.46
‘d better 2 0.66 3.13 30 5.24 10.83 120 19.19 26.26
better 3 0.99 4.69 13 2.27 4.69 47 7.52 10.28
Total BETTER 64 21.07 100.00 277 48.39 100.00 457 73.1 100.00
It is interesting to point out that the data in Table 11 reveal that the dominance
of ’d better in British English (Table 9) only came about in the second half of the
19th century, the frequency in the third CLMETEV period being almost quadruple
that in the second period (a rise from 5.24 to 19.19 tokens per million words).
132 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Noteworthy, too, when comparing the frequencies for the individual construc-
tions in the written register in Table 2 with those for the third period in Table
11, is that the observation made in section 3 on the frequency drop of BETTER
between the turn of the 20th century and the second half of that century also
holds for each of the three constructions, but that it is especially had better
which has seen a quite spectacular fall in its frequency (from 46.39 tokens per
million words in the last CLMETEV period to 5.14 tokens in the written part of
the BNC). The decrease in the frequencies of ’d better and better is much smaller
(respectively, from 19.19 to 17.08 and from 7.52 to 3.38).
Finally, having discussed the frequency and the frequency development of
the various formal variants of BETTER, we can now brieﬂy turn to the frequency
and the diachrony of the meanings of the BETTER constructions. In section 2, we
noted that BETTER is basically used to express advice, but that it is also used to
express the speaker’s hope that some state of aﬀairs be realized. The three sets
of 200 manually-checked BNC instances that already provided part of the input
for Table 4 conﬁrm that this latter, optative, use occurs much less frequently
than the deontic use. Only 9 of the 200 had better cases are optative, only 2 of
the ’d better cases, and only 5 of the better cases. (11) to (13) provide an example
of the optative use of each of the three constructions, supplementing the ones
for had better already supplied in (6) and (7).
(11) As Philip ran across to her he heard a crash. It sounded like his bike
falling over. Lee must have banged into it in the dark. It had better be
that and not him having another of his scenes.
(BNC written ABX 3083)
Figure 2: Evolution of the share of had better, ’d better and better in the total of BETTER
constructions in written British English (from 1710)
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 133
(12) “Take my hand. That’s it. They won’t be long.” The pain came and crushed
her away. “My God,” said Emma, “they’d better be quick. Just hold on.
Hold on, darling. It’s going to be all right.”
(BNC written GUM 1982)
(13) Is this on pause, I better be on pause. Oh my god, it isn’t.
(BNC spoken KNY 1718)
In the Late Modern English data this optative use is even less frequent; in fact,
we found only one example, which is given in (14).
(14) I haven’t any energy left. I don’t understand things. This had better be the
end of it. Let’em sell the stock and take him down,” said the old man,
pointing feebly to the wooden midshipman, “and let us both be broken
up together.” (CLMETEV 1848 Dickens, Dombey and son[s])
The data thus show that the deontic advice meaning is diachronically prior to
and invariably more frequent than the optative meaning, which is in line with
Denison and Cort’s (2010: 374) ﬁndings.
5 The subjects of had better, ’d and better
The semantic-pragmatic value of advice that is typical of the BETTER construc-
tions can be directed at a ﬁrst, second or third person, either singular or plural,
as illustrated in (15) to (19).
(15) “Poor darling, I’d better go and put her out of her misery.”
(BNC written JYC 3382)
(16) The ﬁgure to keep in mind is 12. Below this value the F.I. indicates that the
text is comprehensible; above 12 the F.I. indicates that you had better
shorten your sentences or use less elaborate words or both.
(BNC written FEU 1704)
(17) Now anybody who er who would like to see more sex on television better
give us a ring now I suppose O nine O four six four six four one.
(BNC spoken HV0 1552)
134 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
(18) The voice at the other end was slightly husky but very clear. “It’s Tristram.
He’s been arrested in New York. Better not talk on the phone, had we?”
(BNC written AB9 40)
(19) They’d better get their act together ﬁrst.
(BNC written A99)
The optative use of BETTER most naturally combines with 3rd-person subjects, as
in (20) and (21), since hopes or wishes addressed at either oneself or the hearer
will usually amount to advice. It is not impossible for a “retrospective obliga-
tion” (see above) to be directed at a 1st or 2nd person, however, as (22) and (23)
show.
(20) Somewhere behind the east wing of the castle glass shattered. Menzies
had better come out soon.
(BNC written A0N 629)
(21) “It’s come quick, the winter.” “And it better not go quick.”
(BNC written B1N 1345)
(22) “For all our sakes, I had better be wrong.”
(internet example; http://www.suspensemagazine.com/ReligionDebunked.
html, accessed on 1 October 2011)
(23) I’d walked away to check the markers and I had 127 to the hole and Lee
said it was 147 – and that’s a diﬀerence between an eight and a seven –
so I said, “You got it wrong.” Now Trevino’s eyesight is great, but his
eyeballing isn’t as good as mine. He says, “You’d better be **** right.” He
dug into the bag and pulled out an 8-iron.
(BNC written ASA 869)
Contrary to what one might expect (van der Auwera and De Wit 2010: 136), in-
animate 3rd-person subjects are not restricted to the optative use of BETTER of
the kind illustrated in (6), (7) and (21). The it had better sentence in (24) is an
unmistakable piece of advice.
(24) “Well, as long as it’s put back where you found it. Come to that, it had
better go straight into the soiled linen. But I don’t want any of your chaps
taking it away. Laundry disappears fast enough as it is.”
(BNC written G3E 2560)
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 135
The pilot study suggests that the choice with respect to person is also
related to the choice between had better, ’d better and better (van der Auwera
and De Wit 2010: 137–138). This is shown in Table 12, which contains ﬁgures
that were mined from Tables 6, 8 and 9 in that study and which conﬂates the
ﬁgures for LOB and FLOB and those for Brown and Frown in an attempt to
make the frequencies observed there more illuminating (but note that they are
frequencies per two million words).
Table 12: Frequency of 1st, 2nd and 3rd-person subjects with had better, ’d better and better in
LOB/FLOB and Brown/Frown
1SG 1PL 2 SG and PL 3 SG and PL Totals
had better
LOB + FLOB 2 3 2 7 14
Brown + Frown 1 1 8 13 23
’d better
LOB + FLOB 15 9 20 2 46
Brown + Frown 6 2 14 4 26
better
LOB + FLOB 0 1 10 0 11
Brown + Frown 3 1 14 2 20
Table 12 suggests that there are no major diﬀerences between British and Ameri-
can English. In both varieties at least half of all subjects of had better are 3rd-
person ones, both 1st and 2nd person subjects are more usual with ’d better,
and 2nd-person subjects overwhelmingly predominate with better. In spite of
the conﬂation of the 1960s and 1990s data, some of the cells in this table still
contain extremely low ﬁgures, however, which urges us once again to look at
frequency data from the two larger corpora. Tables 13 and 14 present a break-
down per person of the subject of the numbers presented in Tables 2 and 3.8
8 The ﬁgures for 1st and 2nd-person subjects were arrived at by adding I, we and you imme-
diately before the search strings mentioned in note 5. In the case of had better and ’d better
the ﬁgures for 3rd-person subjects are the diﬀerence between the totals in Tables 2 and 3 and
the sums of 1st and 2nd-person subjects. Since this diﬀerence also includes zero 1st and 2nd
subjects in the case of better (see below), the ﬁgures for 3rd-person subjects in this case are
the outcome of searches for he, she, it, this and they, immediately followed by better and an
inﬁnitive. The 3rd-person ﬁgures for better are therefore a (very probably only slightly) low
approximation (compare the frequencies for better in Table 13 with those in Table 16 below).
136 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Table 13: Frequency of 1st, 2nd and 3rd-person subjects with had better, ’d better and better
in the BNC
1SG 1PL 2SG/PL 3SG/PL Totals
n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil % n %
had better
written 64 0.64 14.25 47 0.47 10.47 86 0.86 19.15 252 2.51 56.12 449 100
spoken 4 0.33 12.9 1 0.08 3.23 4 0.33 12.9 22 1.84 70.97 31 100
’d better
written 475 4.73 31.86 266 2.65 17.84 617 6.14 41.38 133 1.32 8.92 1491 100
spoken 203 16.98 42.03 96 8.03 19.88 163 13.63 33.75 21 1.76 4.35 483 100
better
written 22 0.22 16.79 20 0.2 15.27 77 0.77 58.78 12 0.12 9.16 131 100
spoken 116 9.7 36.71 33 2.76 10.44 150 12.55 47.47 17 1.42 5.38 316 100
Table 14: Frequency of 1st, 2nd and 3rd-person subjects with had better, ’d better and better
in the COCA
1SG 1PL 2SG/PL 3SG/PL Totals
n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil % n %
had better
written 90 0.28 8.23 140 0.44 12.81 167 0.52 15.28 696 2.17 63.68 1093 100
spoken 7 0.09 4.22 24 0.29 14.46 38 0.47 22.89 97 1.19 58.43 166 100
’d better
written 776 2.42 25.40 573 1.79 18.76 1229 3.83 40.23 477 1.49 15.61 3055 100
spoken 115 1.41 18.25 116 1.42 18.41 275 3.37 43.65 124 1.52 19.68 630 100
better
written 341 1.06 14.98 238 0.74 10.46 1349 4.21 59.27 348 0.9 15.29 2276 100
spoken 103 1.26 9.80 147 1.8 14.00 627 7.68 59.71 173 2.09 16.48 1050 100
Tables 13 and 14 conﬁrm for both British and American English that only had
better has a high proportion of 3rd-person subjects and that both 1st and 2nd-
person subjects are very normal for ’d better. They also conﬁrm that in the case
of better there is a predominance of 2nd-person subjects in American English,
but in British English only in written texts. In British spoken English the com-
bined share of singular and plural 1st-person better is roughly the same as that
of 2nd-person better. Both tables also disconﬁrm the possible conclusion from
the numbers in Table 12 that 3rd-person subjects are extremely unusual with ’d
better and better. In American English they even account for 15 to almost 20% of
all instances.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 137
The Late Modern English data for had better and ’d better are presented
in Table 15; the data for better are not included as these all have a zero subject
in the CLMETEV (see section 6). Table 15 shows that the low frequency of 3rd-
person subjects with ’d better in the BNC (8.92% in written data) goes back to
even lower frequencies in the CLMETEV (to maximally 6.67%). The CLMETEV
numbers also indicate that with ’d better 1st-person subjects rose gradually in
frequency in the course of the Late Modern English period, from 0% up to a
combined share of 43%, with plural forms (34 out of 120 instances, 28.33%)
being twice as frequent as singular forms (17 out of 120, 14.17%). The high share
of 3rd-person subjects with had better in the BNC reﬂects an increase in fre-
quency with regard to the Late Modern English period, in which the three
person categories take up similar shares. What seems to have happened is that
’d better, whose share of BETTER has risen quite dramatically since the end of
the Late Modern English period (see Figure 2), started to favour 1st-person
and 2nd-person subjects to 3rd-person ones, whereas – conversely – had better
“specialized” for 3rd-person subjects.
Table 15: Frequency of 1st, 2nd and 3rd-person subjects with had better and ’d better in
the CLMETEV
1SG 1PL 2SG/PL 3SG/PL Totals
n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil % n n/mil %
had better
1710–1780 8 2.63 13.56 3 0.99 5.08 22 7.24 37.29 26 8.56 44.07 59 19.42 100
1780–1850 40 6.99 17.09 56 9.78 23.93 64 11.18 27.35 74 12.93 31.62 234 40.88 100
1850–1920 61 9.76 21.03 53 8.48 18.28 89 14.24 30.69 87 13.92 30.00 290 46.39 100
’d better
1710–1780 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 2 0.66 100.00 0 0.00 0.00 2 0.66 100
1780–1850 1 0.17 3.33 3 0.52 10.00 25 4.37 83.33 1 0.17 3.33 30 5.24 100
1850–1920 17 2.72 14.17 34 5.44 28.33 61 9.76 50.83 8 1.28 6.67 120 19.19 100
6 The zero subject better construction
In the pilot study (van der Auwera and De Wit 2010: 138–139) it was noted that
2nd-person instances of the better construction often have no explicit subject.9
9 Zero subjects are possible for best structures, too. Of the total of 9 best attestations in the BNC
6 are without subject, as illustrated in (a) – see also (9).
(a) He looked up at the sky. It had suddenly become darker. “Best be movin,” he said and they
swung open the gate and set oﬀ at a jaunty pace back up the lane towards the main road.
(BNC written CAB 197)
138 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
This was the case for all of the LOB, FLOB and Brown constructions (5, 5 and 8
attestations), though not for any of the Frown cases (6 attestations). An example
presented there is (25).
(25) Drewitt hesitated. “I would like to go on.” “I wouldn’t like you to. So that’s
it! Better get your uniform on and report to the duty sergeant.”
(FLOB L07 67)
Zero subjects were not included in the frequency counts in Tables 13 and 14
(since these counts were performed automatically and something that is not
realized cannot be found and counted automatically). We will therefore return
to the sample of 200 BNC instances of better that provided part of the input
for Table 4 to get an idea of the proportional share of zero subjects and to test
the hypothesis that they are restricted to 2nd person. The result of the manual
analysis can be found in Table 16.
Table 16: Frequency of 1st, 2nd and 3rd-person zero subjects with better in a sample of 200
instances from the BNC
1SG 1PL 2SG/PL 3SG/PL Unclear Total
n % n % n % n % n % n %
19 21.11 13 14.44 42 46.67 6 6.67 10 11.11 90 100
Table 16 tells us that the better construction indeed often leaves the subject
unexpressed, more precisely in almost half of all cases in the sample (90 of the
200 instances). They do not do so exclusively for the second person, however.
Indeed, 2nd-person instances, though they represent the largest share, account
for less than 50% of the instances in the sample. The combined share of 1st-
person singular and plural cases amounts to 35%. (26) to (29) illustrate 1st and
3rd-person cases.
(26) They talked a bit more, but Harry was tiring quickly. He seemed to be
having diﬃculty with the second pint, and had only drunk a third of it
when he looked at his watch. “Better be on my way, you know, Charlie.
Not as young as I was.”
(BNC written GUF 524)
(27) “Come here, m’dear. Don’t like to see you upset like this. Better do
something about it, hadn’t we?”
(BNC written EVC 3086)
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 139
(28) Better put her seat-y belt on hadn’t she?
(BNC spoken KB7 15869)
(29) The dedication to their appearance of stars such as the luminous, ﬁftyish,
Catherine Deneuve, sixtyish socialites such as Marie Helene de Rothschild
or Helene de Mortemart and political wives such as Bernadette Chirac and
Claude Pompidou, may be much more than simple vanity and may involve
no self-admiration at all. It is more a standard, a form of self-reliance, a
determination that if one has to go in the end, better be correctly dressed.
(BNC written AJU 1043)
What is the origin of the zero subject better construction? Theoretically, one
could conceive of it as a fourth stage in the grammaticalization path in Figure 1,
repeated as Figure 3 with indications of the subjects and with Ø for unexpressed
auxiliary and/or subject.
Figure 3: A possible origin of the zero subject better construction
From an “ontogenetic” angle, it is not to be denied that speakers with a
constructional repertoire containing SUBJECT had better, reduced SUBJECT ’d
better and more reduced SUBJECT Ø better could take the reduction one step
further and produce Ø Ø better. However, from a “phylogenetic” perspective the
hypothetical development represented in Figure 3 has no obvious empirical
backing. Table 17 shows that all of the early better attestations have zero sub-
jects (Ø Ø better). (30) and (31) are two examples.
Table 17: Zero subjects for Ø better in the CLMETEV
Explicit subject Zero subject Total
n % n % n %
1710–1780 0 – 3 100.00 3 100
1780–1850 0 – 13 100.00 13 100
1850–1920 0 – 47 100.00 47 100
140 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
(30) If such the plague and pains to write by rule, better, say I, be pleased and
play the fool.
(CLMETEV 1733–34 Pope, An essay on man)
(31) Malooney’s ball missed the red on its ﬁrst journey up the table by about a
foot, but found it later on and sent it into a pocket. “Ninety-nine plays
nothing,” said Dick, who was marking. “Better make it a hundred and ﬁfty,
hadn’t we, Captain?” “Well, I’d like to get in a shot,” said the Captain,
“before the game is over. Perhaps we had better make it a hundred and
ﬁfty, if Mr. Malooney has no objection.”
(CLMETEV 1909 Jerome, They and I)
Better therefore did not occur with a subject before it occurred without one (see
also the listing of the “main stages” in the history of BETTER in Denison and Cort
2010: 364) and there must consequently be some other causal factor explaining
the development of subjectless better. Denison and Cort (2010: 358–362) provide
us with a plausible one. They draw attention to the it is better to pattern, which
occurs in a clipped format (without it is and with the bare inﬁnitive) in proverbs
from the 17th century onwards. (32) and (33) are two of the clipped examples,
both dating from 1742, the ﬁrst with a to-inﬁnitive and the second with a bare
inﬁnitive.
(32) Better to die a beggar than live a beggar.
(33) Better have it than hear of it.
Arguably, the example in (30) has a proverbial touch to it too, as does one more
example from the 1710–1780 subperiod (out of 3 examples in total). In the 1780–
1850 subperiod, 3 out of 13 examples are clearly proverbial, and in the ﬁnal
1850–1950 subperiod, only 2 out of 47 examples.
The diachronic hypothesis is that the non-proverbial Ø Ø better structures
were generalized from the Ø Ø better proverbs. Denison and Cort (2010: 362)
phrase this as follows: “[i]t seems plausible that the pattern of sentence-initial
better in proverbs may have helped to license the superﬁcially identical struc-
ture for modal BETTER”. After that, better was combined with subjects, just like
had better and ’d better. Figure 4 oﬀers a correction to Figure 3, switching
around the temporal order of SUBJECT Ø better and Ø Ø better, and including
the two hypothesized analogical operations (the horizontal arrows).
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 141
Figure 4: The history of BETTER
It is important to keep in mind that Figure 4 does not show us the full story of
BETTER. Going back further in time might well show a general it is better origin
for both developments. For the proverbial pathway this is obvious: proverbial it
is better just uses a general it is better pattern. As to had better, Poutsma (1928:
159) is conﬁdent that it “stands for” were better, “which in its turn represents a
still older me were better”, and the OED s.v. better (adj. and adv.), sense 4, sug-
gests that this ultimately goes back to it is better. For some hypotheses on how
early had better relates to early it is better, see Denison and Cort (2010: 351–354).
7 The category of better, and of the verb that
follows it
Though for most speakers the kind of better we are considering in this paper is
now likely to be a relatively non-transparent component of the verbal BETTER
constructions, one would assume that the word better going back to SUBJECT
had better was originally an adverb, because of its position in the middle ﬁeld,
between a ﬁnite and a non-ﬁnite verb. The better of it is better, on the other
hand, is obviously an adjective. In zero better proverbs like (33) above, on the
other hand, better precedes a bare inﬁnitive, just like it does in the had/’d better
constructions, so it was already more of an adverb there, and this is likely to
have facilitated the ﬁrst of the two analogical operations referred to in the pre-
vious section. In the present section we will oﬀer a few more considerations on
the categorial status of better and the following verb.
Consider, ﬁrst, example (34), which goes back to Sturtevant (1947: 104), who
heard it from a “neighbor boy”, and which lived on in the linguistic analyses of
Palmer (1965: 49), Visser (1969: 1827) and Jacobsson (1980: 49).
(34) I better go now, bettn’t I?
142 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
In (34) better must be an auxiliary. This is a sensible analysis: the typical modal
construction has a modal auxiliary followed by an inﬁnitive and the had and ’d-
less construction only has better in front of the inﬁnitive. Consequently, speakers –
and learners – could analyse better as a verb. But interestingly, further examples
like (34) have not been documented in any corpus and they are also extremely
rare on the ever so generous internet (cp. Denison and Cort 2010: 380). Never-
theless, the example of the “neighbor boy”, and the importance attributed to it
by linguists, suggests that the potential of analysing better as a verb is real.10
Other analyses are possible as a result of the fact that English makes no
morphological distinction between an inﬁnitive, an imperative, and an indica-
tive present other than a third person singular form. In all patterns discussed
so far the verb that follows better is taken to be an inﬁnitive. However, if the
base form get is an imperative in (35a), why could speakers not take it as an
imperative in (35b), or in (25) above?
(35) a. Get your uniform on.
b. Better get your uniform on.
Note also that English imperatives allow explicit subjects and that get is an
imperative in (36a), too. Hence, speakers could consider get as an imperative in
(36b) as well.
(36) a. You get your uniform on.
b. You better get your uniform on.
Of course, under this analysis better would be an adverb again.
To decide on the categorial status of get in (35b), one could look at the
negation. If get is an inﬁnitive, one expects not, as in (37a), and if get is an
imperative, one expects don’t, as in (37b) or (37c).
(37) a. Better not get your uniform on.
b. Don’t better get your uniform on.
c. Better don’t get your uniform on.
If the type shown in (37c) occurs, it does not actually prove that get is an im-
perative though. It could also be a clipped version of (38) and semi-clipped
(39), in which case (don’t) get in (37c) would be an indicative.
10 Denison and Cort (2010) call their paper “Better as a verb”, but this is a little misleading.
What they mean is that all of the BETTER constructions are like modal verbs.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 143
(38) It is better that you don’t get your uniform on.
(39) Better you don’t get your uniform on.
It turns out that the corpora consulted only have attestations of the type shown
in (37a). This means that at least in these corpora there is no evidence for the
imperative and indicative analyses. Interestingly, the type illustrated in (37c) is
widely attested on the internet, yet the one shown in (37b) is not found at all.
(40) presents two examples of the (37c) type.
(40) a. http://sebastians-pamphlets.com/better-dont-run-a-web-server-under-
windows/Accessed on Oct 10, 2009
b. Better Don’t Talk!
http://www.dosinc.org.au/reviews14.html, Accessed on Oct 10, 2009
The fact that only the type shown in (37c) is found favours seeing it as a clipped
version of it is better that. Otherwise, there should have been at least some attes-
tations of the type in (37b). There are also no better doncha V attestations, with a
prohibitive doncha that would suggest that the verb in the positive counterpart,
better V, is imperative.
Further evidence for the possibility of the indicative analysis is a you better
don’t pattern, frequently found on the internet, also in the ﬁrst and third person.
(41) a. You better don’t go there without us.
http://www.steptalk.org/node/49294, accessed on Sept 28, 2011
b. You better don’t fuck with me.
http://www.azlyrics.com/lyrics/snoopdogg/signs.html, accessed on
Sept 28, 2011
(42) so I better don’t do anything.
www.education.miami.edu/isaac/public_web/ignore.htm, accessed on
Sept 28, 2011
(43) he better doesn’t wear street clothes.
http://www.thewrestlinggame.com/wrestling/news/cm_punk_
unrecognisable.asp.
accessed on Sept 28, 2011
144 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
For some internet users ’d better allows a non-inﬁnitival analysis of the ensuing
verb too, but apparently only for the second person, in which case it is unclear
whether don’t V is imperative or indicative.
(44) you’d better don’t take unnecessary risks.
http://www.catplaza.org.uk/preparation_delivery, accessed on Sept 28,
2011
Many of the structures brieﬂy discussed in this section are of course considered
substandard, but that appreciation does not disqualify us from indicating BETTER’s
potential for change.
8 The standard of comparison
When one oﬀers advice with a BETTER construction, can one express what it is
the advisable state of aﬀairs is better than? According to Jacobsson (1980: 52),
Mitchell (2003: 140) and Denison and Cort (2010: 355), this was perfectly possible
in the earlier history of the language, but it has become ungrammatical in
present-day English. Judging from van der Auwera and De Wit (2010: 140) and
Collins (2009a: 78), this statement is probably too strong. Of the 140 BETTER
sentences in the Brown family corpora two sentences express the standard of
comparison. Such sentences also occur in the BNC and the COCA, but they are
no less rare there. Only eight examples were found in the BNC (in a total of
slightly over three thousand BETTER expressions), and sixteen in the COCA (in a
total of over ten thousand relevant expressions). (45) and (46) are two examples.
(45) “I’m sorry, Mr Beamish, but he’ll be away all day and I thought I’d better
come along rather than leave it till tomorrow.”
(BNC written G3S 2565)
(46) Let’s say violating sovereignty, all of those are the roots of the feeling of
humiliation that is generating hate, criminal tendencies, violence in the
region. So I think that we’d better try to solve those problems rather than
ﬁghting against the selection and expression and the result of those roots.
(COCA, spoken)
The Late Modern English data are more in line with what has been observed in
the literature. Table 18 presents the diachronic development of the expression of
the standard of comparison for the three BETTER constructions.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 145
Table 18: Frequency of the standard of comparison in the CLMETEV
Standard of comparison No standard of comparison Total
n n/million % n n/million % n n/million %
had better
1710–1780 20 6.58 33.90 39 12.84 66.10 59 19.42 100
1780–1850 13 2.27 5.56 221 38.61 94.44 234 40.88 100
1850–1920 6 0.96 2.07 284 45.43 97.93 290 46.39 100
’d better
1710–1780 0 0.00 0.00 2 0.66 100.00 2 0.66 100
1780–1850 0 0.00 0.00 30 5.24 100.00 30 5.24 100
1850–1920 8 1.28 17.02 39 6.24 82.98 47 7.52 100
better
1710–1780 1 0.33 33.33 2 0.66 66.67 3 0.99 100
1780–1850 6 1.05 46.15 7 1.22 53.85 13 2.27 100
1850–1920 8 1.28 17.02 39 6.24 82.98 47 7.52 100
Total BETTER
1710–1780 21 6.91 32.81 43 14.2 67.19 64 21.07 100
1780–1850 19 3.32 6.86 258 45.1 93.14 277 48.39 100
1850–1920 22 3.52 5.73 362 57.9 94.27 384 61.42 100
The data in Table 18 bear out an overall decline of the expression of the stan-
dard of comparison over time, from 32.81% to 5.73% of all the BETTER construc-
tions. It appears that it is especially the had better construction that is responsi-
ble for this downward trend; the decrease from the ﬁrst subperiod to the second
is statistically signiﬁcant, with Fisher’s exact p < 0.005. The data for the better
construction show some ﬂuctuation across the three subperiods, but none of
the changes are signiﬁcant (Fisher’s exact p > 0.05). For ’d better, we can note
even an increase in the expression of the standard of comparison to 17.02% in
1850–1920, which is signiﬁcant (Fisher’s exact p < 0.02). Figures 5 to 7 visualize
these developments for each of the BETTER constructions.
In addition, it can be noted that throughout the 1710–1920 time frame the
bare better form was much more hospitable to the standard of comparison than
the full had better form (see Table 18, ﬁrst versus third set of data). This ties up
nicely with the hypothesis that one of the source constructions of bare better is
that of the proverbial better expressions since these, judging from the examples
given in Denison and Cort (2010: 360–361), always expressed the standard of
comparison.
146 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Figure 5: The share of the standard of comparison with had better in the CLMETEV
Figure 6: The share of the standard of comparison with ’d better in the CLMETEV
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 147
9 A West Germanic postscript
The expression of advice with a modal construction containing the concepts
of “better” or “best” is not unique to English. In the languages of Europe the
strategy is also found in other West Germanic languages (but see also Patard
2011 for French). (47) and (48) illustrate BETTER and BEST constructions in
Dutch, West Frisian, German and Yiddish. Afrikaans does not seem to allow
this strategy (except as calques from English) and neither do North Germanic
languages (they use “rather” type constructions).
(47) a. We kunnen dat beter niet doen. [DUTCH]
b. Wy kinne dat beter net dwaan. [WEST FRISIAN]
we can that better not do
c. Wir sollten das besser nicht tun. [GERMAN]
we should that better not do
d. Mir voltn dos beser nisht geton. [YIDDISH]
we would that better not done
‘We had better not do that.’
Figure 7: The share of the standard of comparison with better in the CLMETEV
148 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
(48) a. Je zou best met de trein reizen. [DUTCH]
you should best with the train travel
b. Do kinst it bêst mei de trein reizgje. [WEST FRISIAN]
you can the best with the train travel
c. Du fährst am besten mit dem Zug. [GERMAN]
you travel at.the best with the train
d. Du forst tsum bestn mit der ban. [YIDDISH]
you travel to.the best with the railroad
‘You had better travel with the train.’
These few illustrations by no means show all the relevant construction types
and the area of comparative modals in the other Germanic languages has been
studied even less than the English ones (but see Byloo, Nuyts, and van der
Auwera 2010 for Dutch, Vanderbiesen 2011 and Vanderbiesen and Mortelmans
2011 for German, and Mortelmans and Vanderbiesen 2010 for a comparison of
English, Dutch and German). Nevertheless, it is clear that the other languages
use auxiliaries other than have and that the superlative type allows phrasal
patterns (“the best”, “at best”, “to best”). It is also clear that the superlative
type is not as marginal as it is in English. In addition, none of these languages
shows anything like successive stages on a grammaticalization path the way
English does. So even here, in this very marginal corner of the grammar of
English modality, it would seem that modality is more grammaticalized in
English than in the other West Germanic languages (see Mortelmans, Boye, and
van der Auwera 2009).
10 Conclusion
In this chapter, we have looked at and contrasted the English comparative
modals from a present-day synchronic and a diachronic perspective. We have
observed that constructions with better (had better, ’d better and better) are
invariably more frequent that those with best (had best, ’d best and best), both
across geographic varieties (British and American) and time (Late Modern English
and present-day English). Homing in on the BETTER constructions, we found that
there is now considerable geographic variation in the case of the ’d better and
better constructions, but not in the case of the had better construction, which is
the least frequent construction in both British and American English. Detailed
corpus counts revealed that the ’d better construction is much more frequent in
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 149
British English than in American English, in spoken language even more so than
in written language. The better construction is also more frequent in British
English in spoken language, but in written data it is about four times less fre-
quent in British English than in American English. In this way we have qualiﬁed
Biber et al.’s (1999) general claim that the BETTER modals are much more
common in UK than in US English.
The Late Modern English data revealed that all three BETTER constructions
increased in frequency from the 18th to the start of the 20th century. On the
other hand, their comparison with present-day data suggests that the drop in
the frequency of BETTER that previous research established to have taken place
in the latter half of the 20th century was part of a longer downward trend. The
comparison of the historical and present-day synchronic data also showed that
the dominance of ’d better among the BETTER constructions in present-day British
English is a recent development. The evolution of the relative frequencies of the
three BETTER constructions in the diachronic corpus adduced evidence for
the grammaticalization scenario proposed in Denison and Cort (2010), i.e. had
better > ’d better > better. The absence of expressed subjects with better in our
historical data supports the claim that this is not a mere case of phonological
reduction, but that analogy with a subjectless, explicitly comparative, proverbial
construction was involved in the development of better. This is substantiated by
the incidence of an expressed standard of comparison in these data. Present-day
distributional evidence suggests that language users are still divided on the
categorial status of better and that this may be a cause for further reanalysis
and change. In the postscript it was suggested that the BETTER and BEST con-
structions ﬁt the general picture of the higher grammaticalization of modality
in English as compared to the other West Germanic languages.
References
Aarts, Bas. In print. Modal patterns over time: Structures and genres. In: Merja Kytö, Irma
Taavitsainen, Claudia Claridge and Jeremy Smith (eds.), Corpus linguistics and the develop-
ment of English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bao, Zhiming. 2010. Must in Singapore English. Lingua 120: 1727–1737.
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Biewer, Carolin. 2009. Modals and semi-modals of obligation and necessity in South Paciﬁc
Englishes. Anglistik 20: 41–55.
Byloo, Pieter, Jan Nuyts and Johan van der Auwera. 2010. Beter en best. In: Johan De Caluwe
and Jacques Van Keymeulen (eds.), Voor Magda. Artikelen voor Magda Devos bij haar
Afscheid van de Universiteit Gent, 93–109. Gent: Academia Press.
150 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Collins, Peter. 2009a. Modals and Quasi-Modals in English. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Collins, Peter. 2009b. Modals and quasi-modals in world Englishes. World Englishes 28: 281–
292.
Collins, Peter. 2009c. Modals and quasi-modals. In: Pam Peters, Peter Collins and Adam Smith
(eds.), Comparative Studies in Australian and New Zealand English. Grammar and
beyond, 73–87. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Declerck, Renaat. 1991. A Comprehensive Grammar of English. Tokyo: Kaitakusha.
Denison, David and Alison Cort. 2010. Better as a verb. In: Kristin Davidse, Lieven Vandelanotte
and Hubert Cuyckens (eds.), Subjectiﬁcation, Intersubjectiﬁcation and Grammaticalization,
349–383. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Deuber, Dagmar. 2010. Modal verb usage and the interface of English and a related creole: A
corpus-based study of can/could and will/would in Trinidadian English. Journal of English
Linguistics 38: 105–142.
Depraetere, Ilse and Susan Reed. 2006. Mood and modality in English. In: Bas Aarts and April
McMahon (eds.), The Handbook of English Linguistics, 269–290. Oxford: Blackwell.
De Smet, Hendrik. 2005. A corpus of Late Modern English Texts. ICAME Journal 29: 69–82.
De Smet, Hendrik. 2008. Diﬀusional change in the English system of complementation: gerunds,
participles and for . . . to-inﬁnitives. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Leuven.
Dollinger, Stefan. 2008. New Dialect Formation in Canada. Evidence from the English Modal
Auxiliaries. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Goldberg, Adele and Johan van der Auwera. 2012. This is to count as a construction. Folia Lin-
guistica 46: 109–132.
Huddleston, Rodney and Geoﬀrey K. Pullum. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Lan-
guage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Jacobsson, Bengt. 1980. On the syntax and semantics of the modal auxiliary had better. Studia
Neophilologica 52: 47–53.
Krug, Manfred. 2000. Emerging English Modals: A Corpus-based Study of Grammaticalization.
Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey N. 2003. Modality on the move: The English modal auxiliaries 1961–1992. In:
Roberta Facchinetti, Manfred Krug and Frank R. Palmer (eds.), Modality in Contemporary
English, 223–240. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey, Marianne Hundt, Christian Mair and Nicholas Smith. 2009. Change in Comtem-
porary English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Loureiro-Porto, Lucía. 2009. The Semantic Predecesors of need in the History of English (c750–
1710). Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell. [Revision of 2005 Ph.D. dissertation]
Loureiro-Porto, Lucía. 2010. Verbonominal constructions of necessity with þearf n. and need n.:
competition and grammaticalization from OE to eModE. English Language and Linguistics
14: 373–397.
Millar, Neil. 2009. Modal verbs in TIME. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 14: 191–220.
Mitchell, Keith. 2003. Had better and might as well: On the margins of modality. In: Roberta
Facchinetti, Frank Palmer and Manfred Krug (eds.), Modality in Contemporary English,
131–149. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Mortelmans, Tanja, Kasper Boye and Johan van der Auwera. 2009. Modals in the Germanic lan-
guages. In: Bjoern Hansen and Ferdinand De Haan (eds.), Modals in the Languages of
Europe. A Reference Work, 11–69. Berlin: Mouton.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 151
Mortelmans, Tanja and Jeroen Vanderbiesen. 2010. Grammaticalization and (inter)subjectiﬁca-
tion: Comparative Modal Constructions in English, (Dutch) and German. Paper presented
at the Conference on Grammaticalization and (Inter)Subjectiﬁcation, Brussels.
Noël, Dirk and Johan van der Auwera. 2009. Revisiting “be supposed to” from a diachronic con-
structionist perspective. English Studies 90: 599–623.
Nokkonen, Soili. 2006. The semantic variation of NEED TO in four recent British English corpora.
International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 11: 29–71.
Palmer, Frank R. 1965. A Linguistic Study of the English Verb. London: Longman.
Palmer, Frank R. 1979. Modality and the English Modals, 1st edition. London: Longman.
Palmer, Frank R. 1990. Modality and the English Modals, 2nd edition. London: Longman.
Patard, Adeline. 2011. Valoir mieux, faire mieux, falloir mieux. Modal comparative constructions
in French. Paper presented at the Conference on Grammaticalization and (Inter)Subjectiﬁ-
cation, Brussels.
Pedersen, Ted. 1996. Fishing for exactness. Proceedings of the South Central SAS(c) User Group
96: 188–200.
Perkins, Michael R. 1983. Modal Expressions in English. London: Frances Pinter.
Poutsma, Hendrik. 1928. A Grammar of Late Modern English. Part 1. The Sentence. First Half.
The Elements of the Sentence. Groningen: Noordhoﬀ.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoﬀrey Leech and Jan Svartvik. 1985. A Comprehensive
Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
Stefanowitsch, Anatol and Stefan T. Gries. 2003. Collostructions: Investigating the interaction
of words and constructions. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 8(2): 209–243.
Sturtevant, Edgar H. 1947. An Introduction to Linguistic Science. New Haven: Yale University
Press.
Taeymans, Martine. 2006. An investigation into the emergence and development of the verb
need from Old to Present-Day English: A corpus-based approach. PhD dissertation, Uni-
versity of Antwerp.
van der Auwera, Johan and Astrid De Wit. 2010. The English comparative modals – A pilot study.
In: Bert Cappelle and Naoki Waka (eds.), Distinctions in English Grammar, Oﬀered to
Renaat Declerck, 127–147. Tokyo: Kaitakusha.
van der Auwera, Johan, Dirk Noël and Astrid De Wit. 2012. The diverging need (to)’s of Asian
Englishes. Marianne Hundt and Ulrike Gut (eds.), Mapping Unity and Diversity of New
Englishes World-Wide. 55–76. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
van der Auwera, Johan and Vladimir Plungian. 1998. Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic Typology
2: 79–124.
van der Auwera, Johan and Martine Taeymans. 2009. The need modals and their polarity. In:
Rhonwen Bowen, Mats Mobärg and Sölve Ohlander (eds.), Corpora and Discourse – and
Stuﬀ. Papers in Honour of Karin Aijmer, 317–326. Gothenburg: University of Gothenburg.
Vanderbiesen, Jeroen. 2011. Welches Outﬁt sollte man am besten anziehen? A corpus study of
comparative modal constructions in German. Master thesis, University of Leuven.
Vanderbiesen, Jeroen and Tanja Mortelmans. 2011. Welches Outﬁt sollte man am besten anziehen?
Eine Korpusstudie komparativer Modalkonstruktionen im Deutschen. Germanistische Mit-
teilungen: 65–85.
Van linden, An, Kristin Davidse and Lot Brems. 2011. Verbonominal expressions with need: the
interaction between negation and modality. Presentation at the International Conference
of Historical Linguistics 20. University of Osaka, 25–30 July 2011.
152 Johan van der Auwera, Dirk Noël and An Van linden
Van linden, An. 2012. Modal Adjectives: English Deontic and Evaluative Constructions in Diachrony
and Synchrony. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Visser, Frederikus Th. 1969. An Historical Syntax of the English Language. Part three. First Half.
Syntactical Units with two Verbs. Leiden: Brill.
Westney, Paul. 1995. Modals and Periphrastics in English: An Investigation into the Semantic
Correspondence between Certain English Modal Verbs and their Periphrastic Equivalents.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Corpora
BNC = The BNC Consortium. 1994. British National Corpus, Oxford University, Oxford.
Brown = Kucera, Henry and W. Nelson Francis, compilers. 1961. Brown University Standard
Corpus of American English, Brown University, Providence RI.
CLMETEV = De Smet, Hendrik, compiler. 2005, 2008. Corpus of Late Modern English Texts –
Extended Version, University of Leuven, Leuven.
COCA = Davies, Mark, compiler (n.d.) Corpus of Contemporary American English, Brigham
Young University, Provo UT.
FLOB = Mair, Christian, compiler. 1997. Freiburg/LOB Corpus of British English, University of
Freiburg, Freiburg.
Frown = Mair, Christian, compiler. 1999. Freiburg-Brown Corpus of American English. University
of Freiburg, Freiburg.
LOB = Leech, Geoﬀrey N., Stig Johansson and Knut Hoﬂand, compilers. 1978. Lancaster/
Oslo-Bergen Corpus, Norwegian Computing Centre for the Humanities, Bergen. http://
longmanusahome.com/dictionaries/corpus.php, accessed on September 4, 2011.
Had better, ’d better and better: Diachronic and transatlantic variation 153
Peter Collins
Grammatical colloquialism and the English
quasi-modals: a comparative study
1 Introduction: “grammatical colloquialism”
This paper examines the distribution of four members of the class of “quasi-
modals” (have to, have got to, be going to, and want to) across nine World
Englishes. Four of these Englishes are members of Kachru’s (1985) Inner Circle
(IC), namely British English (BrE), American English (AmE), Australian English
(AusE), and New Zealand English (NZE), while the other ﬁve are members of the
Outer Circle (OC), namely Singapore English (SingE), Philippine English (PhilE),
Hong Kong English (HKE), Indian English (IndE), and Kenyan English (KenE).
The primary goal of this paper is to test the hypothesis that the distribution of
the four quasi-modals is inﬂuenced by the diﬀerent levels of tolerance that
speakers of these Englishes display towards grammatical colloquialism. The
term grammatical colloquialism is narrower in its application than colloquialism.
While the latter is commonly used to denote the primarily lexical choices asso-
ciated with a type of conversational or oral style, the focus in this paper will be
on grammatical rather than lexical features. Arguably the most uncontroversial
grammatical marker of colloquialism so-deﬁned is contraction. For this reason
the ﬁrst stage of the study, as reported in Section 5 below, involved calculating
the ratios for a set of uncontracted versus contracted grammatical items – will
vs ’ll, am vs ’m, are vs ’re, is vs ’s, and not vs n’t – across the nine corpora used
in the study (as a preliminary measure of the extent to which colloquialism has
established itself in the Englishes represented).
Colloquialism normally results from the process of “colloquialisation”. This
process is generally characterised as an evolutionary shift in English writing
styles that has been operating to make written registers more like spoken
registers (see, e.g., Fairclough 1992). Such a deﬁnition, focusing as it does on
the shifting, or spreading, of features from spoken to written genres, is some-
what problematical, because it fails to address the multiplex and scalar nature
of the diﬀerences between spoken and written language (cf. Biber and Conrad
2009: see further Collins and Yao forthcoming). It is preferable, I believe, to
conceptualise colloquialisation as a process in which linguistic features spread
from casual conversation to other genres, not merely written.
Even if one were to accept as valid the generally received deﬁnition of collo-
quialisation there would be good reason to avoid invoking the process in the
present study. This is because, being synchronic, the study does not enable us
to directly observe the process itself. For this reason I shall avoid using -isation
process-oriented terms in favour of -ism state-oriented terms. Thus, additionally,
the term Americanisation (the process by which other varieties are inﬂuenced by
and/or take on AmE features) will be avoided in favour of Americanism (the
extent to which such features are evident in a given variety or varieties), and
grammaticalisation (the transformation of periphrastic lexical units into more
grammatical ones, subsequently developing new grammatical functions: see
Hopper and Traugott 2003: xv) in favour of grammaticalism (the reﬂection in a
given form or forms of the process of grammaticalisation).
Colloquialism is known to interact with such factors. Its interrelationship
with grammaticalism is reﬂected in the tendency for newly grammaticalised
forms to be accepted more rapidly in informal styles than formal ones. Collo-
quialism also interacts with Americanism, in particular as it manifests the
tendency for AmE to be in the lead in particular changes. The relevance of
these interrelationships to the quantitative ﬁndings for the quasi-modals will be
investigated.
2 Extralinguistic factors
This section considers several extralinguistic factors that, it is predicted, will
also have a role to play in determining the distributional patterns of the quasi-
modals in the present study. One factor is the level of evolutionary advance-
ment of the (postcolonial) Englishes. In his dynamic model for the postcolonial
Englishes Schneider (2007) posits ﬁve evolutionary phases to measure the pro-
gression of their identity construction and linguistic development: (1) foundation
(transportation); (2) exonormative stabilisation; (3) nativisation; (4) endornor-
mative stabilisation; and (5) diﬀerentiation. The three IC postcolonial Englishes,
AmE, AusE and NZE (BrE is excluded because it does not qualify as a post-
colonial English) are all in Schneider’s Phase 5, but can be diﬀerentiated accord-
ing to the extent of their time in this phase (over a century in the case of AmE,
which can also boast attainment of the status of a major “reference” variety,
about three decades for AusE and about two decades for NZE which has more
recently begun to display regional, social and ethnic diversiﬁcation). Of the ﬁve
OC Englishes, SingE is the most evolutionarily advanced with signs that it is
moving into the ﬁnal phase, followed by PhilE arguably (see Borlongan 2011)
becoming extablished in Phase 4. The remaining three varieties, HKE, IndE and
KenE, are all in Phase 3, with KenE diﬀerentiated from the other two in lacking
any signs of the onset of Phase 4 and thus ranking below them.
156 Peter Collins
A second extralinguistic factor of potential relevance to the study is pre-
scriptivism (another -ism), an inhibiting inﬂuence involving attempts to change
the language habits of speakers by prescribing, and proscribing, a range of
usages aimed at preserving and reinforcing supposed standards of “correctness”.
The two major reference varieties of English world-wide, BrE and AmE, have
both been and continue to be subject to close prescriptive surveillance. Despite
claims that prescriptivism is moribund (Crystal 2004: 523), it is likely that at
least some continuing eﬀect is being exerted upon language use by the “rulings”
encoded in such sources as grammar checkers, usage guides, freshman English
textbooks (in the USA), and press columns written by “language experts”. In the
evolution of new Englishes, prescriptivism may manifest itself in the develop-
ment of a complaint tradition targeting local usages that are considered to ﬂout
appropriate norms of correctness, as for example in Hong Kong where there
is an extremely vociferous tradition of complaint targeting allegedly falling
English standards (Bolton 2002: 14–18).
The third and ﬁnal type of extralinguistic inﬂuence that will be invoked in
interpreting the ﬁnding of the present study is socio-historical. For instance,
in comparing results for grammatical colloquialism across the two Antipodean
varieties, AusE and NZE, it is undoubtedly important to note the reputation of
the former for persistent and pervasive informality, and relevant to consider
whether this might be explained in terms of the socio-demographic composition
of the Australian population. As a second example, consider whether, if diﬀer-
ences emerge between the three South-East Asian (SEA) varieties (SingE, PhilE,
and HKE) on the one hand, and the two non-SEA varieties (IndE and KenE), on
the other, there might be a socio-historical basis for this. One striking historical
similarity shared by the two non-SEA OC varieties, IndE and KenE, is that both
emerged in “exploitation colonies” where “the British pursued their classic
“divide-and-rule” policy, i.e. they trained a small indigenous elite as administra-
tors but essentially were not interested in disseminating the English language”
(Schneider 2007: 191). Consequently, English in both India and Kenya has to the
present day had a utilitarian and elitist character, functioning as an indicator of
education and employability. While it continues to provide a strong normative
inﬂuence in both communities, acceptance of local forms is still at a compara-
tively low level.
3 Diachronic change with the quasi-modals
Relevant background to this study is provided by the ﬁndings of the corpus-
based research conducted by Leech and his associates (Leech 2003; Mair and
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 157
Leech 2006; Leech et al. 2009) on recent diachronic changes in the grammar of
English. This research focuses on written language in late 20th century BrE and
AmE – more speciﬁcally, the thirty-year period between the early 1960s and the
early 1990s – using the “Brown Family” of corpora, with some supplementation
from various spoken corpora. Changes in the frequency of grammatical items are
measured by calculating the diﬀerence between the frequencies of items in the
1960s corpora, and those in the 1990s corpora, as a percentage of the former. In
the case of the quasi-modals, Leech et al. (2009: 286) ﬁnd want to to have under-
gone the sharpest rise across the two varieties, and particularly in AmE (+72.4%;
compared to +18.6% in BrE), while have to has had a smaller rise in the two
varieties (+2.8% in AmE and +9.1% in BrE). The two remaining quasi-modals
have risen in AmE but declined in BrE: be going to (+55.0% in AmE and –1.1%
in BrE) and have got to (+16.6% in AmE and –34.1% in BrE).
Leech et al. did not have parallel spoken corpora at their disposal, but to
compensate for this they extracted quasi-modals from non-parallel spoken British
corpora (derived from the Diachronic Corpus of Present-Day Spoken English).
Interestingly the results were similar to, but more exaggerated than, those that
they report for the written corpora: want to (+34.9%), have to (+31.6%), be going
to (+63.0%), and have got to (–2.1%).
4 The data
The data for the present study were derived from parallel corpora representing
the nine Englishes selected. Eight of the corpora were from the International
Corpus of English (ICE) collection: ICE-GB, ICE-AUS, ICE-NZ, ICE-PHI, ICE-SIN,
ICE-HK, ICE-IND and ICE-EA(Ken). ICE corpora are designed to contain approxi-
mately one million words of text, dating from the early 1990s, and conform to a
common design, comprising 500 2,000-word texts sampled in the early 1990s
(300 spoken texts – 180 dialogic and 120 monologic; and 200 written texts – 50
non-printed and 150 printed).
At one million words apiece, the ICE corpora are relatively small, but the
comparability of the data and wide range of text types incorporated make it
ideal for such intervarietal and cross-generic studies as the present one. In the
absence of an ICE-US corpus, whose compilation is yet to be completed, I made
use of the ﬁrst four parts of the Santa Barbara Corpus of Spoken American
English (SBC) totalling around 256,000 words as a representation of spoken
AmE. To facilitate comparison with written AmE, I used the 80,000-word written
158 Peter Collins
corpus which was compiled from a selection of text categories in the Frown corpus
for the purpose of matching the ICE text types as closely as possible (see Collins
2009: 3–4 for the design of this corpus).
All of the data were part-of-speech tagged with the C7 tagset using the Wmatrix
corpus analysis tool (Rayson 2003, 2008).1 Search routines for the grammatical
categories were developed, tokens extracted, and manual post-editing applied
to weed out irrelevant cases (such as those involving lexical going with motional
meaning in combination with a to-inﬁnitival expressing purpose, and have got
with possessive meaning). All raw frequencies were then normalised to tokens
per one million words. The overall frequencies for each of the speciﬁc linguistic
items were derived by calculating the average of the respective normalised spoken
and written ﬁgures. Figures under the headings of IC and OC were also achieved
by calculating the average ﬁgures on the basis of normalised ﬁgures.
5 Colloquialism and contraction
In this section, as foreshadowed above, I present – as a preliminary measure of
colloquialism levels in the nine Englishes – ratios for the uncontracted versus
contracted forms of a set of verbs, plus not: see Table 1. For the latter there is
independent evidence of an association with spoken language: see Biber et al.
(1999: 476). In fact Leech et al. (2009: 240), who note that such contractions
have become strikingly more frequent in English in recent decades, observe
that they “might be considered the paradigm case of colloquialisation: it is so
easy to count contractions automatically and calculate their frequency”.
The extent of the popularity of the contracted forms is seen to be more than
two and a half times greater in the IC varieties (0.89) than in the OC (0.34). It
is furthermore overwhelmingly greater in AmE (1.30) than in any of the other
varieties, the closest rivals to AmE being the two Antipodean IC varieties, AusE
(0.82) and NZE (0.79). BrE (0.63), despite being the most conservative of the four
1 I wish to thank Xinyue Yao for her generosity in organising the part-of-speech tagging, devel-
oping search routines and extracting relevant quasi-modal tokens from the corpora. The regular
expressions used for retrieving the quasi-modals were as follows.
have to: \b((has|have|had|having) to)\b|\b(hasta|hafta|havta)\b
have got to: \b((got to)|gotta)\b
want to: \b((want|wants|wanted|wanting) to)\b|\bwanna\b
be going to: \b(going_VVGK to_TO \w*_V.I)|\b((gonna|gunna)_\w*
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 159
IC varieties, is still more accepting of contraction than any of the OC varieties.2
Within the OC there is a clear distinction between the three SEA varieties on the
one hand and the two non-SEA varieties on the other. The former are remarkably
similar, averaging 0.44, over twice the ﬁgure for the non-SEA pair, which average
0.19. These ﬁndings are broadly in line with our prediction in Section 2 of a
correlation between our colloquialism-relevant ﬁndings and evolutionary status
(in the results for IC vs OC, for AmE vs AusE vs NZE, and for SEA vs non-SEA).
6 Analysis of the quasi-modals
The quasi-modals of English form a somewhat heterogeneous set of periphrastic
forms that are formally distinguishable from, but semantically similar to, the
modal auxiliaries. Most of the quasi-modals – as main-verb constructions that
are progressively evolving towards auxiliary-verb constructions – display such
well-attested signs of grammaticalisation as phonological weakening (hafta/
hasta, gotta, gonna/gunna, wanna, gonna), and semantic bleaching (the loss of
the originally possessive meaning of have in have to, of the originally possessive
meaning of got in have got to, of the originally motional meaning of go in be
going to, and the incipient development of new modal meaning for the volitional
want of want to, as described in Section 7.4: see further Krug 2000). It is widely
agreed that there is a close semantic aﬃliation between a number of quasi-
modals and modals, but it is also recognised that there may be subtle diﬀer-
ences between them (for instance have to tends to be more “objective” than
must): see further Westney (1995). The quasi-modals analysed here were selected
Table 1: Contracted vs full form ratios of selected verbs and not
GB US AU NZ IC SIN PHI HK IND KEN OC
’ll/will 0.38 1.08 0.64 0.57 0.67 0.27 0.21 0.17 0.22 0.14 0.20
’m/am 8.25 34.37 10.13 10.45 15.80 4.65 6.42 3.97 1.33 2.34 3.74
’re/are 0.30 0.67 0.45 0.36 0.45 0.20 0.28 0.12 0.04 0.07 0.14
’s/is 0.58 1.14 0.76 0.77 0.81 0.44 0.46 0.41 0.14 0.16 0.32
n’t/not 1.04 1.98 1.23 1.20 1.36 0.66 0.60 0.76 0.41 0.28 0.54
Total 0.63 1.30 0.82 0.79 0.89 0.44 0.47 0.42 0.19 0.18 0.34
2 BrE has emerged as similarly conservative in other studies of colloquial features: for example,
in singular agreement in the existential-there construction (Collins 2011), and in get-passives
(Collins and Yao forthcoming).
160 Peter Collins
on the basis of their semantic association with particular modals (notably must
and will), and on the basis of a frequency of occurrence suggesting that they
may be making inroads into the semantic territory of their modal counterparts.
Let us ﬁrst consider the overall frequencies of the quasi-modals in the nine
Englishes. Table 2 indicates that AmE has a considerably higher total number of
quasi-modal tokens than the other eight varieties (and, within the IC, leads in
the frequency of every quasi-modal selected except have got to), and has approx-
imately twice as many tokens as the least “advanced” varieties, IndE and KenE.
The IC varieties as a group have a stronger predilection for the quasi-modals
overall than do the OC varieties. Within the IC group BrE is the most “conserva-
tive” and least similar to AmE, followed by NZE, and then AusE. Within the OC
varieties, KenE and IndE are considerably more conservative than the three SEA
varieties (where SingE is in the lead over PhilE and HKE).
The ﬁnding reported in Section 3 above that the quasi-modals are on the
rise (in BrE and AmE) more sharply in speech than in writing might prompt us
to predict that when we compare the ﬁndings for speech and writing in this
study we will ﬁnd the former to be more consonant with those for colloquialism
reported in Section 5 and with those for speech and writing combined. And this
is in fact what we do ﬁnd: the generalisations that we have made with respect
to the complete corpora apply equally well to speech, but slightly less so to
Table 2: Frequencies of the quasi-modals3
GB US AU NZ IC SIN PHI HK IND KEN OC
have to speech 1254 2049 1672 1436 1603 1663 1597 1756 1732 1273 1604
writing 820 782 646 793 760 930 757 777 763 757 797
Total 1037 1416 1159 1115 1182 1297 1177 1267 1248 1015 1201
have got to speech 246 85 413 287 258 93 32 62 26 34 49
writing 14 50 34 33 33 16 2 2 2 2 5
Total 130 68 224 160 145 55 17 32 14 18 27
want to speech 1457 2536 1770 1557 1830 2264 1716 1825 1281 1503 1718
writing 537 807 575 505 606 721 627 748 444 707 649
Total 997 1672 1173 1031 1218 1493 1172 1287 863 1105 1184
going to speech 1386 3232 1616 1589 1956 958 1296 771 605 673 861
writing 144 348 180 226 225 153 103 197 88 192 147
Total 765 1790 898 908 1090 556 700 484 347 433 504
Total speech 4343 7902 5471 4869 5646 4978 4641 4414 3644 3483 4232
writing 1515 1987 1435 1557 1624 1820 1489 1724 1297 1658 1598
Total 2929 4945 3453 3213 3635 3399 3065 3069 2471 2571 2915
3 The total frequencies in Table 2 represent the means between speech and writing.
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 161
writing. In the spoken data we again ﬁnd that AmE is strikingly more advanced
than all the other varieties, that the same ordering (AmE > AusE > NZE > BrE)
obtains in the IC, that the IC varieties as a whole are more advanced than the
OC, that the SEA group is ahead of the non-SEA, and that within the SEA variet-
ies SingE is ahead of the other two. In the written data AmE leads the way, just
as it does in the spoken data, its aﬃnity for be going to and want to being strik-
ingly stronger than any other variety’s. The IC varieties are again ahead of the
OC, and the SEA varieties are on average ahead of the non-SEA. However the
modest frequency for AusE writing is contrary to expectation (a by-product of
the comparative unpopularity of have to in written AusE), as is the ordering of
HKE before PhilE in the OC, and the ordering of KenE before IndE in the non-
SEA.
The speech versus writing ratios for the quasi-modals are presented in Table
3. The highest ratio (4.38) is found in AmE which, as noted above, also enjoys an
overall frequency of quasi-modals superior to that of the other Englishes. In fact
the correlation between the overall frequency of items and the extent of their
popularity in speech as against writing is not restricted to AmE. It is attested
consistently across the IC varieties, whose ranking is identical on both measures
(AmE > AusE > NZE > BrE). In the case of the OC varieties, however, the correla-
tion is only partial. IndE, for instance, has the smallest overall frequency in the
OC (2471), and yet the second highest ratio (2.71). The OC variety with the highest
ratio is PhilE, suggestive perhaps of continuing exonormative allegiance to its
colonial parent, AmE.
Finally, it may be noted that, as for the contraction ﬁgures presented in
Table 1 and the frequency ﬁgures in Table 2, the IC varieties evidence a much
wider range of ratios than do the OC varieties (one which sees the most con-
servative IC variety, BrE, barely above the OC average in Tables 2 and 3). The
magnitude of the diﬀerence between the ratios for the two supervarieties, which
lie at the extremes for the IC, suggests that for the quasi-modals studied collo-
quialism may have advanced considerably further in AmE than BrE. The moderate
Table 3: Speech vs writing ratios for the quasi-modals
GB US AU NZ IC SIN PHI HK IND KEN OC
have to 1.53 2.84 2.59 1.81 2.19 1.79 2.11 2.26 2.27 1.44 1.97
have got to 10.66 10.76 11.45 8.04 10.23 4.94 5.25 5.93 6.88 3.56 5.31
want to 2.81 3.45 3.24 3.02 3.13 3.03 2.86 2.49 2.98 2.36 2.75
going to 9.64 10.00 9.00 7.03 8.92 6.26 12.59 3.92 6.85 5.40 7.00
Total 2.64 4.38 3.39 2.77 3.29 2.51 3.01 2.32 2.71 1.91 2.49
162 Peter Collins
extent of the variation in the OC ratios may suggest that the various factors that
diﬀerentiate the OC varieties historically, culturally and linguistically are not as
signiﬁcant as the properties that they share as new postcolonial Englishes.
7 The individual quasi-modals
In this section we focus on the individual quasi-modals, noting similarities to
and departures from the general trends discussed in the last section.
7.1 have to
The average frequency for have to in the IC varieties (1182) is very close to that
for the OC (1201). However, there is more ﬂuctuation in the IC, where have to
follows the general trend for AmE (1416) to be the most advanced variety in the
frequency of the quasi-modals and for BrE (1037) to be the most conservative
(the only variety with a smaller frequency being KenE), and for the SEA varieties
to outstrip the non-SEA. Speech versus writing ratios for have to align AmE
(2.84) and AusE (2.59) as the most colloquialism-sensitive varieties in the IC,
against BrE (1.53) and NZE (1.81) as the least.
Of the three quasi-modals examined that have comparable frequencies, have
to has the smallest speech versus writing ratio, marginally smaller than for want
to, and considerably smaller than that for be going to. This suggests that have to
has a weaker association with colloquialism than the other items, and is in turn
compatible with Leech et al.’s (2009: 97–99) ﬁnding for recent BrE and AmE that
have to has been increasing less rapidly than want to and be going to.
The primary meaning of have to is (strong) deontic necessity, or “obligation”
(see Collins 2009: 34, 60). It has been suggested (Myhill 1995) that one reason for
the increasing popularity of have to at the expense of its semantically closest
modal auxiliary rival must might be the more “democratic” tone that is generated
by its typically more objective deontic meaning. Compare the objectivity of
deontic have to with the subjectivity of must in the following two representative
examples:
(1) All you have to do is walk around and check. [ICE-SIN:S2A-038]
(2) I give you ten dollar you must give four dollar. [ICE-SIN:S2A-040]
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 163
7.2 have got to
Have got to is the least popular of the four quasi-modals studied, and particu-
larly in the written data (with an average frequency of only 33 in the IC, and 5
in the OC). This ﬁnding is unsurprising in view of the censure of got by prescrip-
tivists that continues to be voiced throughout the IC, and variably across the OC
Englishes. Have got to is also the only quasi-modal for which AmE does not have
the highest frequency (AmE, with a total of 68, in fact having by far the lowest
frequency of the four IC varieties).
Like have to, have got to, serves primarily to express strong deontic neces-
sity, but the two expressions diﬀer in that have got to is less consistent in its
expression of objectivity. Thus in (3), where the speaker is the deontic source,
substitution of have to might suggest that there is a deontic source other than
the speaker.
(3) you have got to start running budget surpluses. [ICE-NZ:S1B-022]
Have got to is far more popular, and more closely associated with collo-
quialism, in the IC than the OC. The ratios presented in Table 3 reveal a dis-
preference for have got to in writing that is far stronger in the IC (10.23) than it
is in the OC (5.31), suggestive of a greater awareness of and sensitivity to tradi-
tional proscriptions of the verb get amongst IC speakers.
7.3 be going to
Be going to is about twice as common in the IC varieties as the OC (1090:504),
and within the IC AmE is strongly in the lead over the other three varieties
(with a total frequency of 1790, approximately twice that of the others). The
far greater aﬃnity for the spoken word than the written word evidenced by be
going to in the present study, in both the IC (where the average speech versus
writing ratio is 8.92) and the OC (7.00), is suggestive of a strong association
with colloquialism.
Be going to resembles its modal auxiliary counterpart will to the extent that
the two primary meanings it expresses are futurity, as exempliﬁed in (4), and
volition, as exempliﬁed in (5):
(4) and it’s hard to predict what it’s going to be like in future. [ICE-NZ:S1B-016]
(5) are you going to shout them all or do they pay? [ICE-NZ:S1A-035]
The parallelism between be going to and will is, however, disrupted by the
inability of epistemic be going to to refer to present or past situations (so it could
164 Peter Collins
not be substituted for will in (6)), and by its expression of weak intentionality
rather than strong willingness or insistence (so substitution of won’t for ’s not
gonna in (7) would boost the strength of the volitionality), and by the typically
greater degree of immediacy that it expresses (as in (8) where, as it commonly
does, it collocates with just):
(6) former president Joseph Estrada will have been appended to college
history. [ICE-PHI:W1A-005]
(7) She’s not gonna go back to go she she doesn’t want to go to back to
Petersham C E S to get a job from them anymore ’cause she you know
every time she gets a job from them it’s really temporary.
[ICE-AUS:S1A-013]
(8) But you can have the the cashier situated somewhere inside so that when
he is just going to pay he’ll still be passing through amidst some other
books So he can be seeing other possible copies which can.
[ICE-KEN:S1B-009]
7.4 want to
The total average frequencies for want to in the IC (1218) and OC (1184) corpora
are similar, with the familiar IC pattern once again of AmE exhibiting by far the
highest frequency, followed by AusE, NZE and BrE. The greater aﬃnity of want
to for the spoken word than the written word, by an approximate ratio of three
to one (3.13 in the IC, and 2.75 in the OC), indicates an association with collo-
quialism, and is compatible with Leech et al.’s (2009: 97–99) ﬁnding for BrE
and AmE that this quasi-modal is on the rise.
Not all writers regard want to as a quasi-modal. However there are at least
two pieces of evidence that support this classiﬁcation. One is its occasional
orthographic representation in informal written styles as wanna. The second is
the emergence of modal meaning additional to its dominantly volitional mean-
ing (as exempliﬁed in (9), where it is paraphraseable by wish to, be willing to),
namely deontic modality as in (10), where it means “are advised to”, “ought to”.
(9) But if we have to keep our oral tradition really you know the stories
should be kept the way the way they were they were told. So I don’t see
much particularly for my stories changing. People may want to but I don’t
think I will encourage that. [ICE-KEN: S1A-023]
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 165
(10) So you wanna think about what’s my hypothesis and how am I gonna how
am I gonna attempt then test that hypothesis and what’s the best way to
do it. [ICE-AUS:S1B-019]
8 Conclusion
The ﬁndings of this study point to a number of strong tendencies. The frequency
of contracted verbs and negative forms, whose status as colloquial features is
conﬁrmed in Biber et al. (1999: 476), was used as an initial measure of the extent
of grammatical colloquialism across the Englishes. It was revealed that the IC
varieties overall were considerably more advanced than the OC on this measure,
and that within the OC the three SEA varieties were more advanced than the two
non-SEA varieties. Within and beyond the IC we found colloquialism, grammati-
calism and Americanism to be interconnected, with AmE more advanced than
all the other varieties. By contrast, BrE was the most conservative within the IC,
with the two Antipodean varieties in-between. There was no departure from
these trends when we considered the frequency of quasi-modal tokens and very
little departure for the ratio of tokens occurring in spoken versus written dis-
course. The ranking (averaging out the various contributing results) in the IC is
AmE > AusE > NZE > BrE, while for the OC it is SingE > PhilE > HKE > IndE >
KenE (with a clear quantitative distinction between the IC and the OC, and
between the SEA and the non-SEA varieties).
Several extralinguistic factors may be suggested to have played a role in
determining these patterns. The hypothesis that the frequencies of selected quasi-
modals in the various (postcolonial) Englishes, and their relative frequencies in
speech and writing in these varieties, may reﬂect their levels of evolutionary
advancement, is conﬁrmed by the ﬁndings. BrE, which is not a postcolonial
English, is of course a special case: it ranks as the most conservative of the IC
Englishes, as it has been observed to do with respect to several colloquial fea-
tures. BrE aside, not only is the relative ranking of the three major groupings
that emerges from the ﬁndings – IC > SEA > non-SEA – consistent with the
Schneider-based evolutionary rankings discussed in Section 2 above, but the
ordering of varieties within each grouping is also in line with our evolutionary
predictions.
There is mild support for the hypothesis that prescriptivism has had some
role to play in our quantitative results. As noted in Section 2, in postcolonial
Englishes prescriptivism may be in evidence in a complaint tradition targeting
local usages deemed “incorrect”. This phenomenon can have diﬀerent con-
sequences for colloquialism: where the complaints serve to generate negative
166 Peter Collins
attitudes towards informal local usages, the eﬀect may be to disfavour the use of
colloquial features; on the other hand, where the eﬀect is to generate positive
community attitudes in deﬁance of the complaints, the eﬀect might be to favour
the use of colloquial features. The ﬁrst scenario is typiﬁed by IndE, the second
by SingE, and it is therefore not surprising that there should be a sharp contrast
in their quasi-modal frequencies (SingE having the highest total frequency of
quasi-modals, 3399, in the OC and IndE the lowest, 2471; and the most extreme
diﬀerence reserved for the quasi-modal that is subject to the greatest prescriptive
censure, have got to, with 55 tokens in SingE as opposed to only 14 in IndE).
Thirdly consider some socio-historical factors. How can we explain the ﬁnd-
ing that two Antipodean IC Englishes, AusE and NZE, diﬀerentiate themselves both
generally in their tolerance of contraction and speciﬁcally in their frequencies of
quasi-modals, NZE being apparently more conservative in its tolerance of collo-
quialism than its “big trans-Tasman brother”? A possible factor here is the socio-
demographic composition of the early Australian and New Zealand settlements.
The English spoken in both settlements originated in a set of dialects trans-
planted by immigrant Anglo-Celtic settlers of comparable social and regional
backgrounds. The main diﬀerence lay in the sizeable convict component in
Australia, a feature that may have had some role to play in the persistent and
pervasive informality of AusE, a widely-acknowledged characteristic that is
manifested in – inter alia – the use of familiar hypocoristics (Simpson 2008;
Bardsley and Simpson 2009), coarse and irreverent words and expressions
(Allan and Burridge 2009), and non-standard grammatical features (Collins forth-
coming; Pawley 2008).
Consider ﬁnally some relevant socio-historical aspects of the OC varieties.
The two non-SEA varieties, IndE and KenE, diﬀerentiate themselves from the
other varieties in their results for contraction and quasi-modal frequency. This
is unsurprising given – as we have noted in Section 2 – that they have a common
historical origination as “exploitation colonies”, a fact that explains the utili-
tarian and elitist nature of English in India and Kenya. The three SEA varieties
in this study pattern similarly to each other, diverging from both the IC varieties
as a whole and from the non-SEA varieties. Within the SEA we have noted that
the results for SingE and PhilE indicate a greater level of advancement than that
for HKE. This ﬁnding is compatible with both the evolutionary diﬀerences
between the varieties and with other extralinguistic factors. In both there is
extensive code-switching between English and local languages (see Gupta
1998; Bautista 2004), in both there is a high percentage of the population who
claim speaking or writing ability in English, and in both there is a colloquial
local vernacular – Singlish and Filipino – that is used in informal intimate con-
texts.
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 167
References
Allan, Keith and Kate Burridge. 2009. Swearing. In: Pam Peters, Pam, Peter Collins and Adam
Smith (eds.), Comparative Studies in Australian and New Zealand English Grammar, 361–
386. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bardsley, Dianne and Jane Simpson. 2009. Hypocoristics in New Zealand and Australian English.
In: Pam Peters, Peter Collins and Adam Smith (eds.), Comparative Studies in Australian
and New Zealand English: Grammar and Beyond, 49–69. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Bautista, Maria Lourdes S. 2004. Tagalog-English code-switching as a mode of discourse. Asia
Paciﬁc Education Review 5(2): 226–233.
Biber, Douglas and Susan Conrad. 2009. Register, Genre and Style. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999. The
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Bolton, Kingsley. 2002. Hong Kong English: autonomy and creativity. In: Kingsley Bolton (ed.),
Hong Kong English: Autonomy and Creativity, 1–25. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University
Press.
Borlongan, Ariane M. 2011. Relocating Philippine English in Schneider’s Dynamic Model. Paper
presented at the 17th International Association of World Englishes Conference, Melbourne,
Australia.
Collins, Peter. 2009. Modals and Quasi-Modals in English. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Collins, Peter. 2011. Singular agreement in there-existentials: An intervarietal corpus-based
study. English World-Wide 33(1): 53–68.
Collins, Peter. forthcoming. Australian English. In: Harold Koch and Rachel Nordlinger (eds.),
The Languages and Linguistics of Australia: A Comprehensive Guide. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Collins, Peter and Xinyue Yao. forthcoming. Colloquial features in World Englishes. International
Journal of Corpus Linguistics.
Crystal, David. 2004. The Stories of English. Woodstock and New York: Overlook Press.
Fairclough, Norman. 1992. Discourse and Social Change. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Gupta, Anthea Fraser. 1998. The situation of English in Singapore. In: Joseph A. Foley, Thiru
Kandiah, Bao Zhiming, A. F. Gupta, L. Alsagoﬀ, Ho Chee Lick, Lionel Wee, I. S. Talib and
W. Bokhorst-Heng (eds.), English in New Cultural Contexts: Reﬂections from Singapore,
106–126. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hopper, Paul and Elizabeth Traugott. 2003. Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Kachru, Braj. 1985. Standards, codiﬁcation, and sociolinguistic realism: the English language
in the outer circle. In: Randolph Quirk and Henry Widdowson (eds.), English in the World,
11–30. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Krug, Manfred. 2000. Emerging English Modals. A Corpus-Based Study of Grammaticalization.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2003. Modality on the move: the English modal auxiliaries 1961–1992. In:
Roberta Facchinetti, Manfred Krug and Frank Palmer (eds.), Modality in Contemporary
English, 223–240. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
168 Peter Collins
Leech, Geoﬀrey, Marianne Hundt, Christian Mair and Nicholas Smith. 2009. Change in Contem-
porary English: A Grammatical Study. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mair, Christian and Geoﬀrey Leech. 2006. Current changes in English syntax. In: Bas Aarts and
April McMahon (eds.), Handbook of English Linguistics, 318–342. Oxford: Blackwell.
Myhill, John. 1995. Change and continuity in the functions of the American English modals.
Linguistics, 33: 157–211.
Pawley, Andrew. 2008. Australian Vernacular English: some grammatical characteristics. In: Kate
Burridge and Bernd Kortmann (eds.), Varieties of English 3: The Paciﬁc and Australasia,
362–397. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rayson, Paul. 2003. Matrix: a statistical method and software tool for linguistic analysis
through corpus comparison. Ph.D. dissertation, Lancaster University.
Rayson, Paul. 2008. Wmatrix: A Web-based Corpus Processing Environment. Computing Depart-
ment, Lancaster University. Software available at http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/wmatrix/.
Schneider, Edgar. 2007. Postcolonial English: Varieties around the World. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Simpson, Jane. 2008. Hypocoristics in Australian English. In: Kate Burridge and Bernd Kortmann
(eds.), Varieties of English 3: The Paciﬁc and Australasia, 305–340. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Westney, Paul. 1995. Modals and Periphrastics in English: an Investigation into the Semantic
Correspondence between certain English Modal Verbs and their Periphrastic Equivalents.
Tübingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag.
Grammatical colloquialism and the English quasi-modals: a comparative study 169
Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Modal necessity and impersonality in
English and Galician1
1 Introduction
1.1 Motivation and justiﬁcation
The relationship between the expression of modal necessity and impersonality is
well attested (cf., for example, Pocheptsov 1997; Pantaleo 2002; Loureiro-Porto
2009). The underlying link between both phenomena is the fact that necessity
usually aﬀects an unvolitional experiencer. Ample evidence of this relationship
can be found in the history of English (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2010a); the Present-Day
English (modal) verb need used to be found in constructions involving an im-
personal experiencer in Old English, as in sentence (1) below, and so did its
semantic competitors (þurfan in Old English, and thurven, misteren and bihoven
in Middle English). One of these, behove, which was personal in Old English
(cf., for example, we soðlice ne behoﬁað þyssera eorðlicera æhta ‘we truly do
not need this/these earthly wealth/possessions’), evolved into Modern English
as an exclusive impersonal verb (cf. Allen 1997; Loureiro-Porto 2010a), as seen,
for example, in (2):
(1) ðonne þe martirlogium geneodie.
then you-ACC martyrology is-necessary
‘then, martyrology is necessary for you.’
(OE example from Visser 1963–1973: 1424, §1345)
(2) It behooves us to know as much as possible about this problem.
(1955, example from the OED s.v. behove v., 4)
Cross-linguistic evidence also supports such a relationship. Galician, for
example, a Romance language spoken in NW Spain, has a defective verb of
necessity which is only inﬂected for the third person (singular and plural),
1 I would like to thank the audience at Modality in English 4 as well as two anonymous re-
viewers for their fruitful comments on an earlier version of this paper. Likewise, for generous
ﬁnancial support thanks are due to the Autonomous Government of Galicia (INCITE grant
08PXIB204016PR) and the Spanish Ministry for Science and Innovation and the European
Regional Development Fund (grants HUM2007–60706 and FFI2011-26693-C02-02).
cómpre2 ‘it is necessary’ (inﬁnitive cumprir, literally ‘to comply’), semantically
close to Spanish cabe and Catalan caldre, both meaning ‘be necessary’. A pre-
liminary overview of its use reveals that its meanings include, at least, weak
internal obligation, ‘should’, as in sentence (3); absence, ‘lack’ (very much like
early English want, cf. Krug 2000), as in sentence (4), and general necessity, as
in sentence (5):
(3) A nosa memoria, polo tanto, é quen de provocar choiva para que
the our memory therefore is who of provoke rain for that
afogue o que non nos cómpre ouvir.
drown the that not us is-necessary hear
‘Our memory, therefore, is able to provoke rain so that what we should not
hear will drown out.’
(Estévez, Xosé, A lagoa da memoria, 2002, from TILGA)
(4) Ao Maniﬁesto só lle cómpren unhas palabras, aquelas de
to-the manifest only it-acc are-necessary some words those by
Antonio Machado. . .
Antonio Machado
‘the Manifest only lacks (and needs) some words, those by Antonio
Machado. . .’
(Blog Días estranhos, 22 July 2008, http://pawley.blogalia.com/historias/58633)
(5) Cómpre unha economía que non precise medrar.
is-necessary a economy that not needs grow-up
‘the world needs a sort of economy that does not need to grow up.’
(Xornal de Galicia, 14 June 2009, http://www.xornal.com/artigo/2009/05/30/
suplementos/contexto/enric-duran-%EF%BF%BDcompre-economia-non-
precise-medrar/2009053023260527834.html)
1.2 English need, behove and Galician cómpre
The etymological ancestors of need are OE neodian v.1 and OE neodian v.2, which
mean ‘to compel’ and ‘to be necessary’ respectively (on the diﬀerences and simi-
larities between them, see Loureiro-Porto 2008). Over the course of time, these
2 For practical reasons, in what follows the form cómpre is used to refer to all the possible third
person singular and plural forms of cumprir ‘to be necessary’ inﬂected for any tense and mood.
172 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
two verbs converge syntactically and semantically (subperiod M3,3 1350–1420,
cf. Loureiro-Porto 2008: 112) and they give rise to need in the sense we know
it today, and whose complex (modal and non modal) status has made it the
subject of many studies (cf., among them Krug 2000; Leech 2003; Smith 2003;
Taeymans 2006; Nokkonen 2006; Polge 2010; Leech 2010; Nokkonen 2010).
Behove, in turn, goes back to OE behoﬁan, a personal verb belonging to
weak verb class 2, which meant ‘need’ and which could feature with NPs or
sentential complements. Over time, and especially in early Modern English,
behove evolves as a verb of appropriateness, meaning ‘it is appropriate / ﬁtting
for you to . . .’ (for further details on the diachronic evolution of need and behove
from Old English to 1700, see Loureiro-Porto 2009).
The survival of need and behove as personal and impersonal in Present-Day
English is claimed to have been caused (at least partially) by the diﬀerent modal
meanings they came to express over the course of time: while need survives
expressing diﬀerent necessity meanings (volition, external obligation, general
need, etc.), behove develops an exclusive preference for meanings related to
appropriateness, i.e. ‘circumstances are such that the experiencer would be
better oﬀ if he/she.. .’ (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2010a). Likewise, this syntactic-semantic
diﬀerence appears to have played a role in the development of need as a modal
auxiliary, while behove never enters the group of grammaticalized verbs.
Galician cómpre is the third person singular present indicative form of the
verb cumprir, literally ‘to comply’, which can also be inﬂected for the third
person plural in all possible verbal tenses (as opposed to the claim in the 1991
Diccionario de dúbidas da Lingua Galega, in which the entry for *cumprir states
that the ‘be necessary’ meaning is only found in the singular)4. According to the
main dictionaries of the Galician language, the etymology is Latin complere ‘to
ﬁll in’ (cf., for example, Gran Diccionario Século 21 da Lingua Galega, 2005, and
Gran Diccionario Xerais da Lingua, 2009). In this sense, the meaning is related
to some Romance modals of necessity which have their roots in verbs related
to space (such as Spanish cabe, which also means ‘be necessary’ and which
has evolved from the meaning ‘to ﬁt in’, see Cornillie et al. 2009). Some of
the Present-Day meanings of Galician cumprir are ‘comply’, as in cumprir o seu
deber ‘to do their duty’, and ‘turn, become’ as in cumpriu 15 anos ‘s/he turned/
3 The label M3 is taken from the Helsinki Corpus (Rissanen et al. 1991), according to which
Middle English (1150–1500) is subdivided into four subperiods: M1 (1150–1250), M2 (1250–1350),
M3 (1350–1420) and M4 (1420–1500).
4 This mistake is amended in the 2004 Diccionario Galaxia de Usos e Diﬁcultades da Lingua
Galega (s.v. cumprir), which avoids any reference to number: “coa acepción de ‘ser necesario’
só se conxuga en terceira persoa”, i.e. when meaning ‘to be necessary’ it is only inﬂected for
the third person.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 173
became 15’. Also, in impersonal uses in which the verb is only inﬂected for
the third person, its meaning is ‘be necessary’, which some dictionaries record
as a diﬀerent meaning of the same lexeme (e.g. Diccionario da Lingua Galega,
Diccionario da Real Academia Galega, Gran Diccionario Século 21 da Lingua
Galega), while a recent and highly respected dictionary considers that the two
meanings belong to two diﬀerent lexemes (e.g. Gran Diccionario Xerais da
Lingua), as seen in Table 1. The entry includes the following information:
(6) CUMPRIR2: v.i. Ser conveniente, preciso ou necesario; convir (cómpre facelo
ben). OBS. É un verbo impersoal que se conxuga conforme ó modelo de
fuxir. ETIM. de cumprir.1
[CUMPRIR2: intransitive verb. To be ﬁtting, wanted or necessary; to behove
(it behoves to do it properly). Observation. It is an impersonal verb that
inﬂects according to the paradigm of fuxir ‘to ﬂee’. Etymologically from
cumprir1.]
Table 1: Galician cumprir: one or two lexemes? Evidence from dictionary entries
Year One entry Two entries
1986 Diccionario da Lingua Galega
1997 Diccionario da Real Academia Galega
2005 Gran Diccionario Século 21 da Lingua Galega
2009 Gran Diccionario Xerais da Lingua
Indeed, the two-lexeme interpretation is accounted for not only in semantic
terms, but also in morphological terms. As stated in the entry, the radical -u-
vowel changes into -o- only when the meaning of the verb is ‘to be necessary’
(hoxe cumpre 15 anos ‘today s/he turns 15’ vs. hoxe cómpre mercar auga ‘today
it is necessary to buy water’).5
When meaning ‘to be necessary’, cómpre is usually followed by an inﬁnitive
which conveys the main meaning of the clause and which is the head of the VP.
Such a preference for inﬁnitival complements points towards the grammati-
calization process of decategorialization. Surprisingly enough, though, none of
the main Galician grammars list cómpre + inﬁnitive as a verbal periphrasis, as
Romance linguistics calls these constructions (Mariño-Paz 1998; Ferreiro 1999;
Freixeiro-Maton 2000; Álvarez and Xove 2002; Hermida-Gulías 2004). It is
widely held that the status of modal auxiliaries in Germanic languages is not
equivalent to the status of homologous words in Romance languages, as noted
5 Although this vowel alternation is the general tendency, sometimes forms with radical -u- are
also found to mean ‘be necessary’, as seen in Figure 1 below.
174 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
by Mortelmans, Boye, and van der Auwera (2009): “In contrast to e.g. Romance
[. . .] and Slavonic [. . .] modals, the Germanic modals can be claimed to stand
out – morphologically, syntactically and semantically – such that they can be
said to build a grammatical paradigm” (2009: 11).
Indeed, Romance modals cannot be said to form a coherent paradigm (see
Cornillie et al. 2009: 131), but some of them indeed exhibit semantic and morpho-
syntactic features that show that they have entered the realm of grammaticaliza-
tion. Thus, even if the processes of cliticization and erosion cannot actually be
applied to any of them (Cornillie et al. 2009: 122), some of these verbs do appear
to have undergone several processes related to grammaticalization, such as
desemanticization and decategorialization. Desemanticization (including (inter)
subjectiﬁcation, metaphor/metonymy, semantic layering, etc.) is exempliﬁed by
Spanish deber, which has undergone the changes ‘to owe’ > ‘deontic must’ >
‘epistemic must’, cf. Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 200–201; Cornillie et al.
2009: 108–109). Decategorialization, in turn, is clearly observed in Italian dovere,
which may occur with the perfect auxiliary essere if that is the auxiliary taken
by the complement verb, instead of the expected avere (Cornillie et al. 2009:
123–124). For these reasons, Cornillie et al. (2009: 132) also claim that, even if
Romance modals cannot be said to form a paradigm, they can indeed be grouped
together as expressing typical modal meanings (such as obligation or necessity)
and as exhibiting diﬀerent degrees of grammaticalization. Galician cómpre ex-
presses a modal meaning, that is, necessity, but it is not known whether its
absence from Galician grammars is due to its lack of grammaticalization into a
modal periphrasis, like English behove, or whether it exhibits auxiliary features,
in a similar way to English need.
1.3 Aim and structure
The common origin and diﬀerent evolutions of English need and behove from
Old English to 1700, as well as the absolute lack of information on the evolution
of Galician cómpre, lead to a series of research questions that this preliminary
paper aims to answer:
i) Is Galician cómpre semantically closer to need (‘necessity’) or to behove
(‘appropriateness’)?
ii) What is the correlation between the semantic and pragmatic implications
of need, behove and cómpre and the syntactic preference for an impersonal
construction in their late history (1700–Present-Day)?
iii) Is there a relationship between the preference for personal contexts (i.e.
nominative experiencers) and the grammaticalization of lexical verbs into
modal auxiliaries?
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 175
In order to answer these questions, the present paper adopts a corpus-based
approach to the diachronic study of English need and behove and of Galician
cómpre from 1700 onwards, using data from the British English section of
ARCHER (A Representative Corpus of Historical English Registers) and TILGA
(Tesouro Informatizado da Lingua Galega). The remainder of this paper is struc-
tured as follows: Section 2 explains some methodological aspects and presents a
brief summary of the theoretical background; Section 3 analyses the corpus
data; ﬁnally, Section 4 draws conclusions.
2 Methodological aspects and theoretical
foundations
2.1 Corpora used and sample selected
The corpora used for this analysis are ARCHER (A Representative Corpus of
Historical English Registers), for British English, which includes some 1.3 million
words from 1700 to 1990, and TILGA (Tesouro Informatizado da Lingua Galega),
for Galician, which includes some 20 million words from 1612 to 2002. The
reasons for using these particular corpora are that, ﬁrst, ARCHER constitutes
the perfect continuation to the Helsinki Corpus (Rissanen, Ihalainen, and Kytö
1991), which, together with other corpora, I used for a previous, thorough study
of need and behove (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009). Second, TILGA is the most repre-
sentative diachronic Galician corpus available, and as such it must provide
an accurate ﬁrst approach to the study of cómpre.6 Finally, both ARCHER and
TILGA cover approximately the same time span and include diﬀerent registers
and text-types, which makes their comparison viable, valid and reliable.
Since TILGA is 15 times larger than ARCHER, I would ideally like to ran-
domize the texts in TILGA so as to obtain a selection of comparable size to that
of ARCHER. However, the TILGA interface does not allow for the manipulation of
the texts themselves, but only the examples obtained. The only option, then, is
to select a random sample of examples of cómpre which parallels the numbers
of need and behove. Thus I ﬁrst extracted all the examples of the verbs from
ARCHER and from TILGA. The results are: 4 examples of behove, 212 of need,
and 3,322 examples of cómpre. Interestingly enough, the normalized frequencies
of need and behove together in ARCHER are exactly the same as those of cómpre
in TILGA: ca. 16 words per 100,000 words.
6 The form cómpre is used to refer to all the possible third person singular and plural forms of
cumprir ‘to be necessary’ inﬂected for any tense and mood.
176 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
I then chose to make a selection of the examples of cómpre similar to that
which would be obtained if the randomizing of the texts were possible. Since
TILGA is 15 times larger than ARCHER, the procedure was to divide the 3,322 ex-
amples by 15, which gives us 221. Thus the 3,322 examples were randomly selected
with the help of Microsoft Excel, before selecting 221. In order to make sure that
this random selection is representative, I took into account two measures:
1) That the time span covered by the sample (1843–2000) roughly corresponded
to the time span covered by the whole corpus (1836–2002), even if there are
very few examples recorded in the 19th century.
2) That the percent representation of each word form in the random sample
(221) corresponded to that of each word form in the whole corpus (3,322),
as can be seen in Figure 1:
Figure 1: Representativeness of the random sample from TILGA
The sample selected, therefore, is fully representative of the totality of examples
found in TILGA.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 177
2.2 Theoretical foundations
In previous studies of need, behove and also of verbo-nominal constructions
related to them, I have followed the cognitive approach to modality posited by
Sweetser (1990) and Talmy (2000), according to which necessity is described in
terms of forces (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009, 2010b). So as to be consistent with those
studies, and so that the data analysed here for English need and behove may be
seen as a continuation of these earlier studies as well, the same approach will
be followed in this paper. According to this approach, forces may originate
inside or outside the experiencer undergoing the necessity, hence they may be
internal (I need to eat – because there is a force within me that leads me to eat)
or external (I must pay taxes – because, regardless of my own wishes, an external
requirement obliges me to do so). Also, forces may have an ambiguous general
origin, one which is neither internal nor external for the experiencer (e.g. I need
to use the ﬂash for this picture), but which is exerted by a “nebulous, generalized
authority” (Langacker 1999: 308), which may sometimes refer to the general
circumstances (as in some examples below).
From an evolutionary point of view, I will consider that external and internal
forces, as they are concrete meanings, precede general forces, which appear in
a developed stage as a result of desemanticization (one of the processes of
grammaticalization, cf. Heine 1993) and which constitutes a bridge between
root modality and epistemic modality, as seen in Figure 2 (itself an expansion
of Loureiro-Porto 2009: 26):
Figure 2: Meanings conveyed by modal verbs in the history of English
The information in Figure 2 is backed up by the data in Loureiro-Porto (2009:
205, 214), where it is seen that the referential, social meanings conveyed by
external and internal forces (at least as far as verbs of necessity are concerned)
occur earlier in time than general meanings, which originate in a nebulous
authority, and which pave the way for root meanings to develop into epistemic
meanings (e.g. he need not be in the library, he may be somewhere else). Epistemic
meanings constitute a further step in the semantic development of modals, im-
plying loss of referential meaning (as general forces) and pragmatic enrichment
(cf. Hopper and Traugott 2003: 94).
External and internal meanings may vary along a gradient of strength, and
therefore they may be strong (if the failure to comply would have severe conse-
178 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
quences for the experiencer) or weak (if no severe consequences would follow)
(cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009: 30). As for general forces, since they originate in an
ambiguous authority, the consequences of non-compliance are very diﬃcult to
measure, and therefore they will not be considered strong or weak, but simply
neutral. They correspond, broadly speaking, to Nordlinger and Traugott’s (1997)
wide scope of deontic modals, because the scope of the modal is the whole
proposition, rather than a particular agent (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009: 29).
3 Data analysis
3.1 Frequencies of the three verbs
Table 2 includes the actual number of occurrences of need, behove and cómpre
in ARCHER and in TILGA respectively. As mentioned, the time span covered by
both corpora is roughly equivalent and, since ARCHER is divided into six sub-
periods, the same periodization is used for TILGA with an additional seventh
subperiod for the span between 1991 and 2002:
Table 2: Number of examples of each verb per subperiod
Period
Verb
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
1991–
2002
NEED 22 13 21 29 45 82 212
BEHOVE 2 0 1 1 0 0 4
CÓMPRE 0 0 1 8 39 92 81 221
Total 24 13 23 40 86 175 81 437
In order to quantify the frequency of occurrence of each of the verbs, normalized
frequencies would ideally be used. However, since the actual number of words
included in each of the subperiods of TILGA is not available, such a proportional
measure cannot be oﬀered. For this reason, the frequencies presented in Table 1
must be considered merely orientative. The following sections, instead, examine
the exact linguistic features of the verbs rigorously, so as to answer questions
i)–iii) as laid out in Section 1.3.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 179
3.2 Semantics of the three verbs
3.2.1 Semantics of English behove and need
Behove occurs only four times in ARCHER (between 1700 and 1900), all four
examples with the meaning of necessity born out of a general force, and all in
aﬃrmative contexts, as seen in (6):
(6) I was about to have cut out the whole tumor, to measure and weigh it,
but was opposed by the relations; and therefore behooved to content
myself with examining its substance as it lay in the body.
(1735 Jamieson, James. A large steatom passing with the Oesophagus,
from the. . .)
The meaning of behove in this sentence is ‘had to’, i.e. the circumstances were
such that that I was forced to content myself with examining its substance as it
lay in the body. This meaning was expected, since in the eModE period behove
had already become specialized in the expression of general forces, which has
been seen as a sign that the verb was evolving towards its appropriateness
meaning it exhibits today (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009: 125–126).
The meanings of need, in turn, are more varied, since it conveys external,
internal general and also logical forces, as shown in Table 3 and graphically
illustrated in Figure 3, which presents the percent values of each type of neces-
sity per subperiod:
Table 3: Meanings of need in ARCHER per subperiod
Period
Meaning
1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
EXTERNAL 9 4 5 5 10 9 42
INTERNAL 2 4 5 6 12 39 68
GENERAL 11 5 11 17 22 34 100
LOGICAL 1 1 2
Total 22 13 21 29 45 82 212
Figure 3 shows no clear deﬁnite evolution in the meanings of need, since internal,
external and general forces oscillate insigniﬁcantly in the six subperiods. The
only exception concerns the expression of logical forces (i.e. epistemic neces-
sity), which are only recorded (and scarcely) in the second half of the 19th cen-
tury and ﬁrst half of the 20th. All of these occur in negative contexts, conﬁrming
Sweetser’s (1990: 154, note 17) comment, as seen in example (7):
180 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
(7) And if we reﬂect that breathing an atmosphere containing only four per cent.
of carbolic acid soon brings on intense headache, (. . .) it need not appear
wonderful that similar symptoms present themselves, when, as occurs in heat
apoplexy, . . .
(1864, Bonnyman, J. Observations on heat apoplexy)
It must be recalled, though, that epistemic need is also found in earlier stages of
the language, not covered in ARCHER. As shown in Loureiro-Porto (2009: 167),
the ﬁrst example of epistemic need in the history of English is recorded in 1649,
also in a negative environment.
Concerning the frequency of external, internal and general forces, perhaps
the most signiﬁcant ﬁnding is that external meanings appear to decrease, but
this is more so in aﬃrmative contexts than in negative ones. In aﬃrmative con-
texts, it is used in a similar way to must from the very beginning of the period
covered in ARCHER, in the same way observed for Present-Day English (cf.
Nokkonen 2006), as seen in sentence (8):
(8) Captain Fustian (. . .) was inquisitive to know how he should be paid for her
passage. The messenger told him he need only signify his demand and she
would draw a bill on her father, that it would not only be discharged at sight.
(1720, Pitts, William. The Jamaica Lady; or The Life of Bavia)
Again, this meaning of aﬃrmative need is actually recorded from earlier periods of
the language, as seen in the following example (from Loureiro-Porto 2009: 153):
Figure 3: Percentage value of the meanings of need per subperiod
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 181
(9) and God lovith wol tenderly us while (we) be in synne, and so us nedyth to
doe our neybor.
and God loves well tenderly us while (we) be in sin and so us needs to do
our neighbour
‘and God loves us tenderly while we are in sin, and so we must do to our
neighbours (lit.: so it is necessary to do to our neighbours).’
(1373 A Revelation of Love)
Nevertheless, the data in ARCHER appear to show that need is more likely to
express external forces in negative contexts. A representative example is (10):
(10) {=f SOPHIA.} (. . .) Besides, you know too one must not be in love! (. . .)
{=m HARRY.} Love they say cannot be resisted. {=f SOPHIA.} Ah, but I
have been taught better! It may be resisted. Nobody need be in love unless
they like;
(1792, Holcroft, Thomas. The road to ruin)
Sentence (10) implies that there is no external obligation for anyone to be in
love, but that this kind of feeling is governed by internal forces (unless they
like). This meaning is found on 29 occasions in the corpus, as opposed to 11
examples of aﬃrmative external force. Conversely, when need expresses internal
forces, it is most commonly found in aﬃrmative contexts (10 to 51 examples). A
double example of this use is shown in sentence (11):
(11) I’ve been helped before, in the past, and that was wonderful. But I’ve never
needed it as I need it now.
(1952, Selected letters of Dylan Thomas)
Indeed, the apparent increase of internal forces with need (see Figure 3)
correlates with an increase of the frequency of this verb in aﬃrmative contexts,
as seen in the following table and ﬁgure:
Table 4: Aﬃrmative and negative need in ARCHER
Period
Need
1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
AFFIRM. 3 2 7 8 25 68 113
NEGAT. 19 11 14 21 20 14 99
Total 22 13 21 29 45 82 212
182 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Figure 4: Percentage of aﬃrmative and negative examples of need
It must be noted that need here includes both need + bare inﬁnitive / NP and
need to. In other words, no distinction is made in Table 4 and Figure 4 as
regards the auxiliary or non-auxiliary status of need in the analysis of polarity.
For a comprehensive view of the relationship between both aspects from a
diachronic point of view, see van der Auwera and Taeymans (2009). Section 3.3
below, in turn, pays attention to the auxiliary and non-auxiliary features of need
in the ARCHER examples.
3.2.2 Semantics of Galician cómpre
Table 5 and Figure 5 below summarize the main meanings of cómpre as found in
the TILGA randomly selected sample, following the cognitive approach described
in section 2.2:
Table 5: Meanings of cómpre in TILGA per subperiod
Period
Meaning
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
1991–
2002
EXTERNAL 2 2 2 1 7
INTERNAL 3 4 7 4 18
GENERAL 1 3 33 83 76 196
LOGICAL 0
Total 0 0 1 8 39 92 81 221
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 183
Figure 5: Percentage value of the meanings of cómpre per subperiod
With the exception of subperiod 3 (for which only 1 example is recorded and,
therefore, the percentage value is not representative), the number of general
meanings of cómpre increases over time and is deﬁnitely larger than that of
need. This might, of course, be related to the increasing preference for the
absence of the experiencer, as seen in Figure 6: if the person who is to experi-
ence the necessity is not identiﬁed, then the necessity tends to be general. Thus
the low number of examples of cómpre expressing external necessity in sub-
period 4 (see example 12) reduces to almost nothing by the beginning of the
21st century, surviving only in a handful of formulaic expressions such as the
following:
(12) que é a hora das ánimas e que cómpre rezar as
that is the time of-the souls and that is-necessary pray the
correspondentes oracións.
corresponding prayers
‘. . .that it is the souls’ time and it is necessary to (we must) pray the
corresponding prayers.’
(1998, Guía da Galiza máxica, mítica e lendaria, Vítor Vaqueiro)
Something similar occurs with examples of internal necessity, although they
survive to a greater degree, an example being sentence (13):
(13) ós qu’andamos polo mundo, todo nos cómpre saber.
those who wander-1.PL in-the world everything us is-necessary know-INF
‘Those of us who wander in the world need to know everything.’
(1881, Literatura popular de Galicia, Juan Antonio Saco y Arce)
184 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Conversely, the main meaning of cómpre in the last subperiod studied is that
of a general force of unknown, ambiguous origin, as seen in sentence (14):
(14) non tiven case relación con xente. Adoito falar só
not had-1.sG almost relationship with people I-usually talk only
do que cómpre facé-lo e procuro non saír÷me
of-that what is-necessary do-it and try-1.SG not go-out
do profesional.
of-the professional-things
‘. . . I didn’t socialize with people. I usually talk only about what is
necessary to talk about and I try not to transcend professional matters.’
(1997, Carne de can, Isidro Novo)
This meaning of cómpre is notably similar to the general necessity meaning
conveyed by behove from earlier periods of the language, as in sentence (15),
an example from the 14th century in which behove is, like cómpre in (14),
followed by an inﬁnitive of a ‘saying’ verb:
(15) Þerof anoþre time we habbeþ yspeke ine þe chapitle of uices. an
thereof another time we have spoken in the chapter of vices and
þeruore hit ne behoueþ naӡt to reherci.
therefore it not behoves not to repeat
‘Thereof we have spoken another time (i.e. previously) in the chapter of
vices, and therefore it is not necessary to repeat it.’
(ﬂ1340 Dan Michel’s Ayenbite of Inwit)
The increasing preference for the expression of general forces and the progres-
sive decay of external and internal forces is, without doubt, related to the decay
of the experiencer in constructions with Galician cómpre. In fact, when cómpre
does have an experiencer it expresses other sorts of necessity with more fre-
quency. In the 30 examples of cómpre with an experiencer (recorded from 1843
to 1998) the meanings observed diachronically are those shown in Table 6 and
Figure 6, which contrast radically with Table 5 and Figure 5:
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 185
Table 6: Meanings of cómpre + experiencer in TILGA per subperiod
Period
Meaning
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
1991–
2002
EXTERNAL 0 1 2 0 0 3
INTERNAL 0 3 4 5 2 14
GENERAL 1 0 6 5 1 13
Total 0 0 1 4 12 10 3 30
Figure 6: Percentage value of the meanings of cómpre + experiencer per subperiod
The same contrast can be found if the meanings of cómpre without an expe-
riencer are taken into account, as shown in Table 7 and Figure 7:
Table 7: Meanings of cómpre without an experiencer in TILGA per subperiod
Period
Meaning
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
1991–
2002
EXTERNAL 1 0 2 1 4
INTERNAL 0 0 2 2 4
GENERAL 3 27 78 75 183
Total 0 0 0 4 27 82 78 191
186 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Figure 7: Percentage value of the meanings of cómpre without an experiencer per subperiod
Even if the 8 examples of cómpre without an experiencer which express mean-
ings other than general necessity are all cases in which an experiencer is easily
understood (as in sentence (12) above, in which the force of religious origin is
inﬂicted from an external entity on everybody), the comparison of Figures 5
and 6 makes it clear that there is an obvious inﬂuence of the explicit presence
of the experiencer and the meaning conveyed by the verb cómpre. Thus, based
on Figures 5 and 6, it could be concluded that Galician cómpre is closer to need
when it occurs with an experiencer (because it exhibits a preference for external
and internal forces, rather than general) and closer to behove when it occurs
without one (because it mostly conveys general forces as early as the eModE
period, cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009: 116). In this sense, it could be hypothesized
that Galician cómpre without an experiencer is close to Spanish cabe and Catalan
caldre, because they never feature an explicit experiencer and they appear to have
a preference for the expression of general forces. A detailed study of them, how-
ever, should be carried out before drawing deﬁnite conclusions.
When polarity is taken into account, however, all resemblance between
cómpre and need disappears, as seen in Figure 8.
Contrary to the case of need (see Figure 4 above), cómpre exhibits a prefer-
ence for aﬃrmative contexts in all subperiods and no distinction need be made
on the type of complement following it.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 187
3.3 Syntactic features and evidence for grammaticalization
This section analyses the syntactic features of need, behove and cómpre, paying
special attention to those characteristics which may point towards an auxiliary
status of the verbs, i.e. those typical of grammaticalization processes. Three
main aspects are considered: 1) presence and absence of the experiencer, 2) the
type of complement selected (paying special attention to the preference for bare
inﬁnitives), and 3) the occurrence of the verbs in speciﬁc formulaic expressions
or formulae.
3.3.1 Presence and absence of the experiencer
Table 8: Presence and absence of the experiencer with need, behove and cómpre
Period
Verb
EXP? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
1991–
2002
BEHOVE + 2 0 1 1 0 0 4
– 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
NEED + 22 12 19 27 41 61 182
– 0 1 2 2 4 21 30
CÓMPRE + 1 4 12 10 3 30
– 4 27 82 78 191
Total 24 13 23 38 84 174 81 437
Figure 8: Percentage of aﬃrmative and negative instances of cómpre per subperiods
188 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Table 8 shows the number of occurrences with each of the verbs with and with-
out an explicit experiencer in the period studied. Let us ﬁrst deal with behove,
the least recorded verb in the corpus, whose analysis serves as a follow-up to
Loureiro-Porto (2009: chapter 4). In all four examples behove occurs with an
explicit experiencer (which contrasts sharply with the data for need and behove).
This is a tendency already observed in early Modern English, speciﬁcally from
1540 onwards, when it is no longer found without an explicit experiencer (cf.
Loureiro-Porto 2009: 127). The case that the experiencer is inﬂected for is always
oblique or unmarked, as in sentence (16) below, in which medical men is an
unmarked NP, as expected for the period:
(16) Till it has been so tested it behoves medical men to be cautious how they
employ or recommend the employment of a new medicine.
(1864 Observations on some new remedies)
There is, however, one exception in which the experiencer is nominative, which
is surprising since ﬁndings in Loureiro-Porto (2009: 130) suggest that behove
ceases to occur with a nominative experiencer at the end of the ME period (i.e.
1500). Such an example is sentence (6) above, in which the nominative form I is
the experiencer of the force expressed by behooved.
Regardless of the type of experiencer selected by behove, it is always found
with a to-inﬁnitival complement, its favoured pattern when found with an expe-
riencer from 1500 onwards (cf. Loureiro-Porto 2009: 128),7 as seen in sentences
(6) and (16).
The second verb in Table 8, need, exhibits a strong preference for the pres-
ence of the experiencer and, of course, all of them are nominative or unmarked
in the period studied, as opposed to earlier recordings of this verb (see sentence
(1) above). The apparent increase of occurrences of need without an experiencer
is the result of its presence in passive constructions, which, of course, only render
the theme or thing needed (e.g. I believe that my services are more needed here
than elsewhere, 1848, Madeleine: A Tale of Auvrgne). If we set aside examples of
passive need and of middle voice need (e.g. This is always a problem. The voices
in your head need sorting out. It’s not always easy to distinguish who is saying
what, and so in the ﬁrst drafts one gives words belonging to one character to
another, 1971, A Journal of “The Journalists”), the examples of need without an
experiencer decrease dramatically, as seen in Table 9 and Figure 9:
7 Interestingly enough, when eModE behove is found without an experiencer, it mostly selects
that-clauses, as shown in Loureiro-Porto (2009: 128). Unfortunately, this is a ﬁnding that cannot
be conﬁrmed or denied for the period studied in this paper, because no instances of behove
without an experiencer have been found.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 189
Table 9: Presence and absence of the experiencer with active need
Period
Need
1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
+ exp. 22 12 19 27 39 57 176
– exp. 1 1 2 4 8
Total 22 12 20 28 41 61 184
Figure 9: Percentage of the presence of the experiencer with active need
In fact, in subperiod 6 in ARCHER (1950–1990), need is only found without an
experiencer in ﬁction texts from the 1950’s with the meaning ‘be necessary’, as
in the following sentence:
(17) {=m MACCARTHY} My dear fellow, even in your profession it needs
inﬂuence to be a hero. How often have you been allowed to try?
(1958, The scythe and the sunset, by Denis Johnston)
This use of need is highly infrequent, but it comes to be a parallel of the main
use of cómpre, which, as opposed to need, exhibits an increasing tendency to
occur without an experiencer, as seen in Figure 10:
190 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Figure 10: Global percentage of the presence of the experiencer with cómpre
The increasing preference of cómpre for contexts without an experiencer consti-
tutes clear evidence of its diﬀerent status from need, but does not actually con-
stitute a claim against its possible grammaticalization, which can be considered
by taking into account its syntactic preferences and its occurrences in formulaic
expressions.
3.3.2 Occurrences with bare inﬁnitive
Something which behove, need and cómpre have in common is their preference
for sentential complements, a feature which brings them close to the auxiliary
group both in English and Galician, since, as is well-known, “[t]he moment
a verb is given an inﬁnitive complement, that verb starts down the road of
auxiliariness” (Bolinger 1980, as cited in Heine 1993: 27). However, a diﬀerence
among them concerns the nature of the sentential complement. Thus, on the one
hand, behove always occurs with a to-inﬁnitival complement, which neglects
any possible interpretation of its auxiliarihood. Need and cómpre, on the other
hand, do exhibit a strong preference for bare inﬁnitival complements when
they choose a sentential complement. Bare inﬁnitives are, as is well-known, the
only possible type of complement of English auxiliaries (cf., for example, Quirk
et al. 1985: 137; Huddleston and Pullum 2002: 108). Likewise, Romance modals
are also characterized by the preference for bare inﬁnitives (rather than content
clauses introduced by that-particles), as stated in Lamiroy (1999: 38) The possible
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 191
sentential complements with need and cómpre are sketched in Tables 10 and 11
respectively:
Table 10: Sentential complements found with active need
Period
Compl.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Total
+ Bare inf. 16 6 10 15 14 7 68
+ Bare pass. inf. 3 1 4 8
+ Bare perfect inf. 1 1 2
+ Other sent. c.
(to-inf, to-pass. inf., that-cl.)
1 2 0 1 3 12 19
Total 17 8 13 18 22 19 97
Table 11: Sentential complements found with cómpre
Period
Compl.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total
1700–
1749
1750–
1799
1800–
1849
1850–
1899
1900–
1949
1950–
1990
1991–
2002
+ bare inf. 1 1 22 70 68 162
+ that-cl. 1 5 5 6 17
Total 1 2 27 75 74 179
The proportion of bare inﬁnitival complements with need only decreases in sub-
period 6 in ARCHER (as illustrated graphically in Figure 11 below), but here
again a distinction must be made between aﬃrmative and negative contexts.
Figure 4 above already shows how precisely in this subperiod the number of
aﬃrmative examples of need increase exponentially and, as is well known, PDE
aﬃrmative need is not normally followed by a bare inﬁnitival complement –
although van der Auwera and Taeymans (2009: 320) do show some early 20th
c. examples). Therefore, so as to obtain a clear picture of the auxiliarihood of
need in the period under study, focus must fall on negative sentences, as shown
in Figure 12.
192 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Figure 11: Percentage of bare inﬁnitival complements of active need (vs. other sentential
complements)
Figure 12: Percentage of bare inﬁnitival complements of active negative need (vs. other
sentential complements)
Figure 12 clearly shows that, when conﬁned to negative contexts, the favourite
sentential complement of need in the last subperiod of ARCHER is still the bare
inﬁnitive (almost 70% of cases), so it could appear that, in principle, there
are no reasons for discussing its possible degrammaticalization, other than its
progressive decrease in frequency. Nevertheless, the size of ARCHER is not the
optimal one for a study of this sort, therefore no deﬁnite conclusions should be
reached without exploring larger corpora, on the lines of Leech (2003), Smith
(2003) and Nokkonen (2006), for example.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 193
Regarding Galician cómpre, its almost exclusive selection of the bare inﬁni-
tive, shown in Table 11 above, can be seen even more clearly when illustrated
graphically, as in Figure 13 below:
Figure 13: Percentage of bare inﬁnitival complements of cómpre (vs. other sentential
complements)
Figure 13 shows that only rarely does cómpre occur with a that-clause (the only
sentential alternative to bare inﬁnitives) and does so increasingly less and less
often. The (almost) exclusive pattern with an inﬁnitival complement and its
above mentioned semantic characteristics make it suitable for inclusion in the
list of Galician modal periphrases, since it is a candidate for the modal classes
described from Romance languages in Cornillie et al. (2009): it has undergone
both desemanticization (it no longer means ‘to comply with’) and a loss of sub-
categorization frames (it exhibits a strong preference for inﬁnitival complements).
Nevertheless, as already mentioned, Galician grammars do not list cómpre as a
particular grammatical item. No reasons for such an omission seem evident,
especially if the information in section 3.3.3 is taken into account.
3.3.3 Occurrences in constructions / formulae
The last syntactic feature I would like to discuss in this preliminary approach to
the comparison between English need and behove and Galician cómpre involves
their occurrence in particular contexts and constructions. The reason for such
an analysis is to be found in the relationship between grammaticalization and
194 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
formulae, which is well-attested in the literature (cf., for example, Corrigan et al.’s
2009 volume). One of the papers in that volume is particularly enlightening
regarding the eﬀects of formulae on the grammaticalization of modal auxiliaries,
namely Bybee and Torres Cacoullos (2009). They show that prefabs (or formulae)
contribute to grammaticalization because, (i) they are accessed holistically, (ii)
they are responsible for the high frequency of grammaticalizing constructions,
and (iii) they grammaticalize earlier than the general construction.
In the analysis of need and behove from 1700 to 1990 no particular contexts
were found as particularly frequent or idiomatic. However, cómpre is actually
very often recorded in combination with verbs (bare inﬁnitives, as seen in section
3.3.2) of saying, such as those meaning ‘say, add, highlight’, as seen in the
following pair of examples:
(18) Falaremos dela no próximo apartado. Mais cómpre dicir
We-will-talk about-it in-the next section But is-necessary say
tamén algo sobre determinadas obras realizadas.
also something about certain works done
‘We’ll talk about this in the next section, but it is necessary to say
something about certain works done. . .’
(1992, Manuel Cabada Castro, A rapa das bestas de Sabucedo, historia e
antropoloxía dunha tradición)
(19) Compría, pois, expoñer aquí dúas posicións ben contrapostas.
It-was-necessary then present here two positions well opposed
‘It was necessary, then, to present here two completely diﬀerent views.’
(1985, Xosé Luís Franco Grande, Os anos escuros)
Thus, in 68 instances in which cómpre is followed by a bare inﬁnitive and without
an experiencer (which represents over 45% of its occurrences in this context),
the bare inﬁnitive is a verb of saying, meaning ‘say, add, highlight’, etc., as
shown in Figure 14. Following Bybee and Torres Cacoullos’ (2009) assumptions
regarding the grammaticalization of can in English, therefore, I claim that the
development of incipient auxiliary features of cómpre (i.e. its almost exclusive
preference for bare inﬁnitival complements) is intimately related to its high fre-
quency of occurrence in formulae or constructions involving verbs of saying.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 195
Figure 14: Percentage of constructions involving cómpre + bare inﬁnitive of saying
4 Conclusions
This paper has provided a preliminary comparison of English behove and need
and Galician cómpre from the double perspective of modality and grammaticali-
zation. The point of departure has been their partial semantic overlap and that
they can be found in so-called impersonal contexts, i.e. without a nominative
experiencer, a syntactic pattern in which they all feature in diﬀerent periods
of the language. The approach adopted was corpus-based: concretely, the BrE
section of ARCHER and a random selection of TILGA were explored, with the
aim of answering three main questions i)–iii) in Section 1).
The ﬁrst question regards the semantic overlap between Galician cómpre, on
the one hand, and English need (which mainly conveys ‘[lack of] necessity’) and
behove (conﬁned to the meaning of ‘appropriateness’) on the other. The results
show that when cómpre does not have an experiencer it is clearly closer to
English behove, because both have a preference for general forces in aﬃrmative
contexts. This seems to be in tune with other related Romance verbs such as
Spanish cabe or Catalan cal (caldre), which also seem to express general types
of necessity. Nevertheless, when cómpre has an explicit experiencer, it is seman-
tically closer to need, because in some 60% of its occurrences it expresses either
external or internal types of forces.
The second question was the correlation between the semantic and prag-
matic implications and the syntactic preference for an impersonal construction
in the history of need, behove and cómpre. The answer to question i) clearly
leads to an aﬃrmative answer to question ii), since there is an obvious relation-
ship between impersonal constructions and the lack of implication of the expe-
riencer, which leads to an increase in the expression of general forces.
196 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Finally, question iii) concerned the relationship between the preference for
personal contexts (i.e. nominative experiencers) and the grammaticalization of
lexical verbs into modal auxiliaries. This question is more diﬃcult to answer
in light of the examples analysed, but it is without doubt the case that in the
English data examined, only the personal verb grammaticalizes into a modal
auxiliary, namely need, while behove never enters the grammaticalization path
(which is not a ﬁnding of this paper, but of Loureiro-Porto 2009, among others).
Concerning the auxiliary status of Galician cómpre, we must constrain ourselves
to the limited degree of grammaticalization exhibited by modals in Romance
languages (cf. Cornillie et al. 2009), but even then, it is possible to aﬃrm that
the Galician verb cómpre shows enough features to be considered a candidate
for inclusion in the group of modal periphrases in Galician grammars, probably
in line with other parallel verbs in Spanish (cabe) and Catalan (caldre), also
meaning ‘be necessary’. The reasons for this are that not only does it exhibit
an (almost) exclusive preference for bare inﬁnitival complements, but it also
features in formulae involving verbs of saying with a striking frequency, which
correlates with previous ﬁndings regarding the grammaticalization of English
auxiliary can, for example (cf. Bybee and Torres Cacoullos 2009). The existence of
Spanish cabe and Catalan caldre, all with the same meaning of general necessity
and impersonal syntactic nature as Galician cómpre, raises questions regarding
the typological structure of the languages, which, no matter how interesting
they are, must be left for future research on the relationship between modality
and impersonality.
References
Allen, Cynthia L. 1997. The development of an “impersonal” verb in Middle English: The case of
behoove. In: Jacek Fisiak (ed.), Studies in Middle English Linguistics, 1–21. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Álvarez, Rosario and Xosé Xove. 2002. Gramática da Lingua Galega. Vigo: Editorial Galaxia.
ARCHER 3.1 (A Representative Corpus of Historical English Registers), at http://www.llc.manchester.
ac.uk/research/projects/archer/.
Bolinger, Dwight L. 1980. Wanna and the gradience of auxiliaries. In: Gunter Brettschneider
and Christian Lehmann (eds.), Wege zur Universalienforschung: sprachwissenschaftliche
Beiträge zum 60. Geburstag von Hansjakob Seiler, 292–299. Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
Bybee, Joan, Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca. 1994. The Evolution of Grammar. Chicago
and London: The University of Chicago Press.
Bybee, Joan and Rena Torres Cacoullos. 2009. The role of prefabs in grammaticization. How
the particular and the general interact in language change. In: Roberta Corrigan, Edith A.
Moravcsik, Hamid Ouani and Kathleen M. Wheatley (eds.), Formulaic Language. volume 1:
Distribution and Historical Change, 187–217. (Typological Studies in Language 82.)
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 197
Cornillie, Bert, Walter De Mulder, Tine Van Hecke and Dieter Vermandere. 2009. Modals in
the Romance languages. In: Björn Hansen and Ferdinand de Haan (eds.), Modals in the
Languages of Europe. A Reference Work, 107–137. (Empirical Approaches to Language
Typology 44.) Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Corrigan, Roberta, Edith A. Moravcsik, Hamid Ouali and Kathleen M. Wheatley (eds.). 2009.
Formulaic Language. volume 1: Distribution and Historical Change. (Typological Studies
in Language 82.) Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Diccionario da Lingua Galega. 1986. (Authors: Xosé G. Feixó Cid [coord.], Xosé Manuel Enríquez
Rodríguez, Ramón Rocamonde Gómez, Celso Parada Fernández). Vigo: Ir Indo Edicións.
Diccionario da Real Academia Galega. 1997. (Directors: Constantino García, Manuel González.
González). A Coruña: Real Academia Galega; Vigo: Edicións Xerais de Galicia.
Diccionario de dúbidas da Lingua Galega. 1991. (Authors: Benigno Fernández Salgado [coord.],
Xosé Antonio Fernández Salgado, Manuel Puga Moruxa, Xulio César Sousa Fernández).
Vigo: Editorial Galaxia.
Diccionario Galaxia de Usos e Diﬁcultades da Lingua Galega. 2004. (Director: Benigno Fernández
Salgado). Vigo: Galaxia.
Facchinetti, Roberta, Manfred Krug and Frank Robert Palmer (eds.). 2003. Modality in Contem-
porary English. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Ferreiro, Manuel. 1999. [1995] Gramática Histórica Galega. I Fonética e Morfosintaxe. 4th
edition. Santiago de Compostela: Laiovento.
Freixeiro Maton, Xosé Ramón. 2000. Gramática da Lingua Galega II. Morfosintaxe. Vigo: Edicións
A Nosa Terra.
Gran Diccionario Século 21 da Lingua Galega. 2005. (Director: Xosé Antonio Pena. Authors:
María Cruz López, Xosé Avelino Hermida, María do Carme Pampín, e Xosé Antonio Pena).
Vigo: Editorial Galaxia, Edicións do Cumio.
Gran Diccionario Xerais da Lingua. 2009. (Authors: Xosé Ma Carballeira Anllo [coord.] Carme
Ares Vázquez, Carme Hermida Gulías, Primitivo Iglesias Sierra, Xosé Ma Lema Suárez,
Rosa López Fernández. Edición: Xosé Cid Cabido). Vigo: Edicións Xerais de Galicia.
Hansen, Björn and Ferdinand de Haan (eds.). 2009. Modals in the Languages of Europe. A Refer-
ence Work. (Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 44). Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Heine, Bernd. 1993. Auxiliaries, Cognitive Forces and Grammaticalization. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Hermida Gulías, Carme. 2004. Gramática Práctica (Morfosintaxe). Santiago de Compostela: Sotelo
Blanco.
Hopper, Paul J. and Elizabeth C. Traugott. 2003 [1993]. Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Huddleston, Rodney and Geoﬀrey Pullum. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Lan-
guage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Krug, Manfred G. 2000. Emerging English Modals: A Corpus-Based Study of Grammaticaliza-
tion. (Topics in English Linguistics 32). Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lamiroy, Béatrice. 1999. Auxiliaries, langues romanes et grammaticalisation. Langages 135:
63–75.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1999. Grammar and Conceptualization. (Cognitive Linguistics Research
14.) Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
198 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2003. The English modal auxiliaries 1961–1992. In: Roberta Facchinetti,
Manfred Krug and Frank Robert Palmer (eds.), Modality in Contemporary English, 223–
240. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Leech, Geoﬀrey. 2010. Where have all the modals gone? – on the declining frequency of modal
auxiliaries in American and British English. Plenary lecture delivered at the conference
Modality in English 4. Madrid, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 9–11 September
2010.
Loureiro-Porto, Lucía. 2008. The convergence of two need verbs in Middle English. In: Richard
Dury, Maurizio Gotti and Marina Dossena (eds.), English Historical Linguistics 2006. Vol. II:
Lexical and semantic change, 97–116. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Loureiro-Porto, Lucía. 2009. The Semantic Predecessors of need in the History of English (c750–
1710). (Publications of the Philological Society 43.) Oxford: Blackwell.
Loureiro-Porto, Lucía. 2010a. A review of Early English impersonals: Evidence from necessity
verbs. English Studies 91: 674–699.
Loureiro-Porto, Lucía. 2010b. Verbo-nominal constructions of necessity with þearf n. and need
n.: Competition and grammaticalization from OE to eModE. English Language and Lin-
guistics 14(3): 373–397.
Mariño Paz, Ramón. 1998. Historia da Lingua Galega. Santiago de Compostela: Sotelo Blanco.
Mortelmans, Tanja, Kasper Boye and Johan van der Auwera. 2009. Modals in the Germanic
languages. In: Björn Hansen and Ferdinand de Haan (eds.), Modals in the Languages
of Europe. A Reference Work, 11–70. (Empirical Approaches to Language Typology 44).
Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Nokkonen, Soili. 2006. The semantic variation of need to in four recent British English corpora.
International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 11(1): 29–71.
Nokkonen, Soili. 2010. Modals of obligation/necessity in dialogic registers of British English.
Paper delivered at the conference Modality in English 4. Madrid, Universidad Complutense
de Madrid, 9–11 September 2010.
Nordlinger, Rachel and Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 1997. Scope and the development of epistemic
modality: evidence from ought to. English Language and Linguistics 1: 195–317.
Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edn. on CD-ROM Version 3.1.1. 1989. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Pantaleo, Nicola. 2002. Impersonals as modals in Middle English religious literature. In: David
Hart and Maria Lima (eds.), Modality in Late Middle English and Early Modern English:
Semantic Shifts and Pragmatic Interpretations, 143–160. Naples (Italy): Cuen.
Pocheptsov, George G. 1997. Quasi-impersonal verbs in Old and Middle English. In: Jacek Fisiak
(ed.), Studies in Middle English Linguistics, 469–488. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Polge, Olivier. 2010. I want you to and I need you to in Present-Day English. Paper delivered at
the conference Modality in English 4. Madrid, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 9–11
September 2010.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoﬀrey Leech and Jan Svartvik. 1985 A Comprehensive
Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
Rissanen, Matti, Ossi Ihalainen and Merja Kytö (compilers) 1991. Helsinki Corpus of English
Texts: Diachronic and Dialectal. Helsinki: University of Helsinki.
Smith, Nicholas. 2003. Changes in the modals and semi-modals of strong obligation and epis-
temic necessity in recent British English. In: Roberta Facchinetti, Manfred Krug and Frank
Robert Palmer (eds.), Modality in Contemporary English, 241–266. Berlin and New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Modal necessity and impersonality in English and Galician 199
Sweetser, Eve. 1990. From Etymology to Pragmatics: Metaphorical and Cultural Aspects of
Semantic Structure. (Cambridge Studies in Linguistics 54.) Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Taeymans, Martine. 2006. An investigation into the emergence and development of the verb
need from Old to Present-Day English: A corpus-based approach. Ph.D. dissertation, Uni-
versiteit Antwerpen.
Talmy, Leonard. 2000. Toward a Cognitive Semantics. Volume I: Concept Structuring Systems.
Cambridge, MA.: The Massachusetts Institute of Technology Press.
TILGA (Tesouro Informatizado da Lingua Galega), at http://www.ti.usc.es/tilg/index.htm.
van der Auwera, Johan and Martine Taeymans. 2009. The need modals and their polarity. In:
Rohnwen Bowen, Mats Mobärg and Sölve Ohlander (eds.), Corpora and Discourse – and
Stuﬀ. Papers of Karin Aijmer, 317–326. Gothenburg: Acta Universitatis Gothoburgensis.
Visser, Fredericus T. 1963–1973. An Historical Syntax of the English Language (4 vols.). Leiden:
Brill.
200 Lucía Loureiro-Porto
Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
Modal uses of the English present
progressive
1 Introduction
The semantics of the English progressive, which is used in a notoriously large
variety of contexts, occupies a unique position from a cross-linguistic point of
view (cf. Bertinetto et al. 2000).1 Within the paradigm of the present, moreover,
its characteristic interaction with the simple present-tense form has been widely
noted and debated, not in the least because it represents a feature that seems
fairly exclusively linked to English, among the more familiar European lan-
guages. This is probably one of the main reasons why the English progressive
has attracted a lot of scholarly attention in the past decades (e.g., Allen 1966;
Scheﬀer 1975; Adamczewski 1978; Ljung 1980; Römer 2005; for an overview of
recent studies of the progressive aspect in “outer circle” Englishes, see Collins
2008). Most often, however, these studies restrict their semantic analyses to
purely aspectual notions of continuity and duration, as illustrated in the follow-
ing quote from Palmer: “The progressive indicates activity continuing through a
period of time. Activity with duration” (1968: 61).
Deﬁnitions such as this can account for some uses of the English progressive,
and as such it constitutes a viable characterization of a part of the progressive’s
semantics. However, in a number of examples attested in the corpus we have
studied, the Santa Barbara corpus of spoken American English (Du Bois et al.
2000), the use of the progressive does not seem to be primarily motivated by
temporal or aspectual considerations:
(1) . . . Well he says minorities.
.. He’s smart.
He talks about minorities.
But he’s really talking about African Americans.
The speaker in (1) ﬁrst uses the simple present, indicating in this case a
habitual action (on the part of Jesse Jackson), and then switches to the present
1 A more comprehensive account of the modal meaning and the various usage types of the
English present progressive can be found in De Wit and Brisard (published online 8 July 2013).
Thanks are due to the Research Foundation – Flanders (FWO) for its ﬁnancial support of the
second author (grant 4740).
progressive, without there being any temporal or aspectual reasons for doing so:
by using a progressive form, the speaker is still referring to what the subject
does in general, not to what is actually going on at the time of speaking, and
so objectively speaking there are no diﬀerences between the event (type)
referred to by means of the simple present and the referent of the subsequent
present-progressive form2. Examples such as this, we will argue, may only be
accounted for in terms of the epistemic-modal meaning we propose for the
present progressive, and which we deﬁne as contingency in immediate reality. In
our view, this constitutes the most schematic meaning of the English present
progressive, from which other, more speciﬁc usage types can be derived. Given
the relatively wide range of usage types involved, such a uniﬁed analysis of the
semantics of the English progressive is lacking in many studies of this construc-
tion. A noteworthy exception to this is Williams (2002), who proposes “suscepti-
bility to change” as the most basic (abstract) meaning of the English progres-
sive. And yet, though his analysis contains original and valuable insights, he
does not always systematically explicate the relation between the various uses
of the progressive, or between those uses and the progressive’s basic meaning
(cf. also Kaltenböck 2003). Moreover, since Williams does not draw on corpus
data, a number of usage types (for instance, the one illustrated in 1) are left
unnoticed. In the present corpus-based study we attempt to ﬁll these gaps,
thereby assuming a modal foundation for the semantics of the English present
progressive3.
In the second section of this article we shall brieﬂy introduce the approach
to tense adopted in Cognitive Grammar (Langacker 1987, 1991), the theory in
which we have framed our analysis. Section 3 provides a characterization of
the English present progressive in terms of contingency in immediate reality,
drawing on Brisard (2002b) and Langacker (2011). In the fourth section, we
show how various concrete usage types attested in our corpus can be shown to
derive from the progressive’s epistemic schema. In section 5, ﬁnally, we submit
our conclusions.
2 Out of context, an alternative interpretation would be possible, in which the speaker refers to
a single action in the past, a kind of historical present. But even on this interpretation, the shift
to the progressive form would again not appear temporally or aspectually motivated.
3 In formal-semantic analyses proposals have also been made for a basic modal meaning of
the progressive operator, as one of “necessity” (Dowty 1977), in order to solve the problem of
“successful completion” with accomplishments (what is called the imperfective paradox; see
also Portner 1998). It will become clear further on that our own proposal for a modal semantics
of the English present progressive in terms of “contingency” or “non-necessity” makes diﬀerent
theoretical assumptions and deals with diﬀerent analytical problems.
202 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
2 Tense and grounding in Cognitive Grammar
Tense in Cognitive Grammar is deﬁned as an epistemic notion at the most sche-
matic level (Langacker 1991: 240–246). This means that tense markers (as well as
certain modal auxiliaries) in English are considered as indicating the status of a
situation (a state or an event) with respect to the speaker’s conception of reality
at the time of speaking. Tense markers are thus regarded as grounding pre-
dications: they specify the relationship between a proﬁled situation and the so-
called ground, deﬁned as “the speech event, its participants and its immediate
circumstances” (Langacker 2002: 7). Note that the ground, in this deﬁnition,
does not only comprise situations that are actually going on at the time of
speaking, but also part of the background knowledge of the speaker, which is
“always, if implicitly, present at a pre-reﬂective stage” (Brisard 2002: 265) and
may be mobilized to conjure up situations that do not strictly coincide with the
present but nevertheless have some current relevance for the speaker’s con-
ception of reality. The canonical temporal distinction between present and past
tenses is reinterpreted schematically as “a proximal/distal contrast in the epistemic
sphere” (Langacker 1991: 245). Put diﬀerently, a present tense indicates that the
designated situation is immediate to the speaker, i.e., that it coincides with the
ground. The past tense, on the other hand, conveys a meaning of non-immediacy
(within the speaker’s model of reality).
The English present-tense paradigm consists of two morphologically distinct
constructions: the simple present and the present progressive. Both construc-
tions incorporate the present tense as an essential component, and thus in
both cases the grounding relation is one of epistemic immediacy. That is, the
simple present as well as the present progressive are used to designate situa-
tions that the speaker considers to be real at the time of speaking. Still, as we
will argue in the following sections, the simple and the progressive form each
confer a subtly diﬀering modal status upon a situation with respect to the
ground.
3 The schematic meanings of the English simple
present and the present progressive
In this section we brieﬂy discuss the basic tenets of our analysis of the modal
semantics of the English progressive, in opposition to the simple present. Con-
sider the following sentence, containing a simple-present form:
(2) I only watch television on Sundays.
Modal uses of the English present progressive 203
In keeping with the conception of tense in Cognitive Grammar, the event
of watching referred to in (2) belongs to the realm of the speaker’s immediate
reality, since she is using a present tense. Indeed, the speaker refers to a habit,
which is part of her structural world-knowledge and thus by deﬁnition also part
of the ground. Crucial for our analysis is the precise modal status of situations
construed by means of the simple present: the simple form, as opposed to the
progressive, indicates that the designated situation constitutes a structural reality,
i.e., a necessary part of what the speaker conceives of as currently real; it is
expected and can be predicted on the basis of the speaker’s general knowledge
of the world and of certain situation types in it (cf. also Hirtle 1967: 39).
The present progressive, as in (3), is similarly used to refer to situations that
are considered to be real at the time of speaking:
(3) Be quiet, I’m watching television.
In this case, however, the situation, real though it may be, does not constitute a
necessary, structural part of the speaker’s ground, i.e., it is construed as being
contingent (which is marked by means of the -ing form). In example (3), the
speaker is indeed watching television at the time of speaking, but this event
does not constitute a structural part of her conception of reality; on the whole,
its occurrence at a speciﬁc moment in time could not have been expected, nor
predicted. Events in general and even certain state-like activities, such as sleep-
ing or wearing a shirt, that are explicitly presented as singular (taking place
right now) and that are therefore non-structural, as in (4), cannot as a rule take
the simple present in English:
(4) * John writes a letter/sleeps/wears a nice shirt right now.
This, too, is in line with the deﬁnition we propose for the (simple) present tense
as marking a structural reality. As is well-known, the simple present can be used
freely with real statives, which by deﬁnition denote structural situations.
The semantic, essentially modal, opposition between the simple present and
the present progressive is illustrated in Figures 1a and 1b, in which C stands for
the conceptualizer (the speaker) and P for the proﬁled situation that belongs
to the ground (the state or event rendered by means of the simple present or
the present progressive). In Figure 1b, the unconsolidated/contingent position
of P with respect to the ground is indicated by the use of a circle, instead of a
square.
204 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
Figure 1: a) Structural status of a simple-present construal (“structural reality”). b) Contingent
status of a present-progressive construal
4 Usage types of the English present progressive
In the previous section we have deﬁned the basic meaning of the English present
progressive as indicating contingency in actuality (i.e., immediate reality or reality
“right now”). Since we propose a uniﬁed analysis of the semantics of the present
progressive, it should in principle be possible to derive all of its more speciﬁc
usage types – semantic categories that are frequently described in the relevant
literature, such as Temporary Validity or the Futurate use of the progressive –
from this more abstract characterization. To establish the various contexts in
which the progressive is used in present-day English, we have collected 332
instances of present progressives from the Santa Barbara corpus of spoken
American English. Each of these forms has then been classiﬁed as instantiating
a particular category of use, on the basis of a set of strictly deﬁned meaning
criteria. In turn, these categories, or usage types, are related to one another to
form the semantic network of the English progressive, presented in Figure 2.
The basic epistemic meaning of “contingency in immediate reality” branches
oﬀ into two diﬀerent clusters: one cluster with temporal usage types, and the
other relating to purely modal usage types. That is to say that we consider all
temporal usage types (e.g., Current Ongoingness) as instantiations of a basic
epistemic meaning, applied to the temporal domain. The relationships between
the various usage types involve a number of independently motivated cognitive
principles. For the more or less prototypical category of Current Ongoingness, we
can say that the meaning of “contingency in immediate reality” is instantiated
in the temporal domain by having an actual event simply coincide with the
time of speaking (ground). Of course, a temporal overlap between an event
and the current ground is also at issue, in one way or another, with the other
“qualiﬁed” temporal uses. The latter can be distinguished from the progressive’s
“unqualiﬁed” prototype, either on the basis of the relative prominence they
Modal uses of the English present progressive 205
confer upon one or both of the boundaries marking the designated event
(Temporary Validity, Incompleteness, and Duration), by the fact that they invoke
a higher-order construal of multiple events (Iteration, Repetition, and Habitual),
and/or because they involve a virtual plane of representation (Futurate and
Habitual) (cf. Langacker 2001)4. Finally, Shifted Ongoingness is very similar to
Current Ongoingness, the only diﬀerence being that there is a temporal overlap
between an event and some shifted reference point (i.e., a virtual ground),
instead of the actual time of speaking.
These temporal usage types all involve, in a more or less explicit way, in-
stantiations of the prototypical temporal meaning of the English present pro-
gressive; that is, they all indicate situations that are going on at the time of
speaking. At the same time, these usage types also incorporate the basic modal
characterization that underlies all uses of the present progressive in English
(i.e., we see Current Ongoingness as the most straightforward elaboration of the
progressive’s epistemic schema: most dynamic events going on “right now” are
contingent in the sense that they should not necessarily have occurred at a
particular moment). In the purely epistemic usage types that we distinguish, on
Figure 2: Semantic network of the English present progressive
4 The progressive in English may be used only to refer to “contingent habits” that are bounded
in time in the conceptual background. Thus, “These days John is writing a letter every day” is
perfectly ﬁne, because the habit in question only lasts for a limited period of time. (see also
Williams 2002: 169–171).
206 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
the other hand, the use of the progressive is not primarily temporally motivated,
given that it occurs in contexts where, on temporal grounds, one would typically
have expected a simple present, as in (1). In section 4.1 we ﬁrst illustrate a
few temporal usage types – Current Ongoingness and its direct extensions,
Temporary Validity and Duration –, showing how exactly they instantiate the
meaning of epistemic contingency. Next, in section 4.2 we look into a number
of epistemic connotations associated with the notion of contingency, such as
“surprise” or “irritation”, that frequently accompany uses of the English present
progressive. The presence of these connotations constitutes further evidence for
the speciﬁc modal orientation of the progressive’s semantics proper. Section 4.3,
ﬁnally, is devoted to the purely modal usage types, where any temporal motiva-
tion for using progressive forms is highly downplayed, if indeed at all present.
4.1 Temporal usage types of the English present progressive
The most frequent and intuitively most salient temporal usage type is that of
Current Ongoingness. This usage type involves examples in which the progres-
sive is used to indicate that a singular event is actually going on at the time of
speaking, without any further qualiﬁcations. This is illustrated in example (5):
(5) Do you want –
You could use the lettuce washer,
Cause Pete’s using the colander
Where’s the lettuce washer
You know, the salad spinner thing?
This meaning is claimed to elaborate the modal schema proposed for the present
progressive in terms of epistemic contingency within the temporal domain. In
non-technical terms, one might argue that Pete’s using the colander, in example
(5), is not a structural part of the speaker’s conception of reality: even though
he is indeed/really using the colander at the time of speaking, he need not
necessarily have been. The event, in other words, could not have been predicted
or expected at that particular moment.
Let us now look at how the analysis of examples like (5) works technically
in Cognitive Grammar. First, we need to establish a systematic semantic (i.e.,
conceptual) contrast between verb types that typically cannot take progressive
marking in English (barring cases of special or “coerced” readings) and those
that can, like use in (5). Langacker (2001: 255–258) divides the English verbs
into two basic aspectual classes: dynamic verbs (called perfective by Langacker;
watch, learn, sing) and stative verbs (called imperfective; know, need, want).
This is done on the basis of their grammatical behavior in the present-tense
Modal uses of the English present progressive 207
paradigm. Dynamic verbs involve a change of state and they are construed as
bounded within the so-called immediate temporal scope5. Situations designated
by stative verbs, on the other hand, are construed as internally homogeneous
and unbounded within the immediate temporal scope. This means that stative
processes are constant through time: the process persists indeﬁnitely beyond
the immediate scope and remains qualitatively identical throughout6. Figures 3a
and 3b (taken from Langacker 2001: 257) illustrate these diﬀerences between
dynamic and stative verbs.
Figure 3a: Dynamic verb Figure 3b: Stative verb
In English, the use of the present progressive to refer to situations that are going
on at the time of speaking (Current Ongoingness) is typical of dynamic, i.e.,
bounded, events, such as use in example (5), as opposed to states like know,
need, etc. These stative verbs proﬁle unbounded processes and therefore do not
meet one of the semantic requirements for using the progressive, viz., that an
internal perspective is created on an inherently bounded situation. Diagrammati-
cally, this is rendered by having the implied boundaries fall within the expres-
sion’s MS, as in Figure 47
. It is precisely the assumption of these boundaries,
5 The overall conceptual content invoked by an expression is called its maximal scope (MS)
(Langacker 1987: 118–119). The immediate scope (IS) is that portion of the maximal scope that is
immediately relevant for a given linguistic purpose. It delineates the onstage region or “general
locus of viewing attention”. For instance, in the following set of expressions, body > arm > hand >
ﬁnger > nail, each entity constitutes the immediate scope for the next. Thus, one cannot conceive
of a nail without evoking, in the background, at least the conception of a ﬁnger.
6 Activity predicates like run or wear a shirt, which do not involve culmination or the attain-
ment of an inherent end point, are traditionally regarded as unbounded, as opposed to other
change-of-state predicates like accomplishments and achievements (Vendler 1957, 1967). Yet we
argue that activities are still bounded in time – even those that have state-like properties, such
as wear a shirt or sleep, which can be divided into identical sub-events. The fact that these
“homogeneous activities”, similar to “heterogeneous activities”, cannot be combined with the
simple present (except in habitual/generic contexts) is motivated by the fact that one cannot
verify an activity unless one also has access to its points of inception and termination (Michaelis
2004: 10–11), which represents an epistemic restriction. Sleeping, for example, “is distinct both
from being comatose and from nodding oﬀ for a second” (Michaelis 2004: 11; cf. also Langacker
1987: 261–262).
7 Statives can take the present progressive, but only if their semantics is reinterpreted in terms
of a more dynamic and bounded conﬁguration (a case of coercion).
208 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
which is strictly speaking the contribution of the -ing participle, that yields the
progressive construction’s basic meaning of contingency, given the apparent
association (at least for speakers of English) between singular dynamic events
and a feeling of general non-necessity accompanying their occurrence at any
particular moment within the phenomenal world – and, conversely, between
unbounded states and their perceived (relatively) stable and structural character.
Figure 4: Present progressive
As can be seen in Figure 4, the -ing form creates a ﬁrst immediate scope
on the designated situation (IS1), so that, with dynamic verbs, the boundaries
of the original event are conceptually backgrounded. Resulting from this inter-
nal perspective is an imperfective expression, unbounded and essentially homo-
geneous within the boundaries of IS1. Next, the present tense, as indicated on
auxiliary be (a stative verb), grounds the event by imposing a second immediate
scope (IS2) within IS1. Just like with statives taking the simple present, a repre-
sentative sample of the resulting homogenized process (the proﬁle in IS2, in
bold) is mentally made to coincide with the time of speaking, as required by
the deﬁnition of the present tense in Cognitive Grammar (Langacker 2001: 260).
This proﬁle is what the present-progressive construction is actually referring to,
with the remainder of the relevant semantic material residing in the conceptual
background.
It should be clear that the basic epistemic meaning of the present progres-
sive is always immanent in its concrete temporal instantiations. For the category
of Current Ongoingness, depicted in Figure 4, the progressive (with its intima-
tion of obligatory starting and end points) is the construction par excellence
in English to render the typically contingent status of a singular bounded event
occurring at, but not fully and exactly coinciding with, the time of speaking
(e.g., using the colander in example 5). Using a simple present in these cases
would imply a structural quality that most of these events do not have as a
rule: it would imply that this speciﬁc use of the colander at a given moment in
time could have been predicted for some reason by the speaker, who could then
have her utterance coincide exactly with what it purports to describe, or that the
use of the colander is construed as a kind of continuous and unbounded state
Modal uses of the English present progressive 209
(as, for instance, with the description of particular habits). As mentioned before,
the other temporal usage types all involve events that are going on at the time
of speaking, as with the category of Current Ongoingness, yet these events are
in some way qualiﬁed. Insofar as they can be seen as extensions from the pro-
gressive’s prototypical conﬁguration, these uses also instantiate the epistemic
schema for the present progressive by deﬁnition, while at the same time intro-
ducing slight modiﬁcations, usually in the degree of salience or prominence
assigned to one or more meaning elements.
Two brief examples should suﬃce to illustrate the type of cognitive opera-
tion at work in going from one node to another in the network of temporal
meanings of the present progressive. First, in the case of Temporary Validity,
both boundaries are attended to with maximal (background) prominence, as can
be seen in Figure 5. Compared to Figure 4, it is thus only the level of prominence
of two of its non-proﬁled meaning elements that diﬀers, without anything being
added to or subtracted from the original conﬁguration.
Figure 5: Temporary validity
This usage type has been fairly frequently attested in our corpus. For some
authors, it is actually the basic meaning of the progressive (cf. Binnick 1991:
284–285; Joos 1964). Only examples in which there are clear contextual indica-
tions of temporariness, such as this year in (6), have been classiﬁed as belonging
to this category:
(6) So, . . . they’re kind of suﬀering that –
from that this year.. Not having that on there
The relative prominence of the boundaries is equally important in the cate-
gory of Duration, which Palmer (1968: 61) considers as central. In this case, the
boundaries of the dynamic process are made highly non-salient (without how-
ever entirely disappearing from the background). It should be possible to para-
phrase instances of this category by means of the collocation keep on.
210 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
Figure 6: Duration
Again, attestations have been systematically classiﬁed as belonging to the cate-
gory duration on the basis of contextual cues, such as the presence of adverbial
still in the following example:
(7) . . . and I’m looking through the window
and then he’s still making noises with the paper,
. . . and then um. . .
I kinda looked and then I didn’t and I. . .
kept making like,
Note that there is a sense of irritation that can be made out from this example,
whereas example (6) features an event that is construed as somewhat atypical
in the speaker’s model of reality. In fact, connotations such as surprise or atypi-
cality feature quite frequently among our corpus examples. We propose that this
is to be expected, given the modal core of the progressive’s semantics: a con-
tingent situation is one that cannot be predicted at a particular moment in
time, possibly not representative of the structure of the world (the set of con-
stant or regularly recurring situations that make up the speaker’s model of struc-
tural reality), and, in view of its unexpected/atypical nature, a potential cause of
discomfort leading to irritation – since the situation is considered contingent, it
might also not have occurred at that moment in time and thus might have been
avoided. In the following section, we will argue that connotations such as these
can be tied more systematically to the presence of progressive verb forms in the
examples, and that these connotations are therefore in the relevant cases to be
seen as grammatically marked (by the progressive), rather than being some
vague property of the contexts in which progressives (may) appear, or of their
interaction.8
8 This might be called a mirative meaning element, which is present in certain usage types of
the progressive (more than in others). Mirativity is a semantic category for which many lan-
guages have developed dedicated grammatical markers (e.g., DeLancey 1997).
Modal uses of the English present progressive 211
4.2 Modal connotations accompanying temporal usage types
Given the unconsolidated status of the proﬁled situation in the speaker’s model
of immediate reality (the element P in Figure 1b), as encoded by the present pro-
gressive, it is not unexpected that a considerable amount of the observations in
the corpus have connotations related to the modal meaning of contingency or
non-necessity, or to its implications (among which, the fact that a given situa-
tion marked as such could not have been predicted with absolute certainty at
the time of speaking). That is, notions of surprise, atypicality or unexpectedness,
irritation or indignation and tentativeness (about the actual reality of a situa-
tion) frequently accompany the temporal usage types we have distinguished. In
the following example, for instance, speaker B interrupts speaker A to refer to a
current event (Current Ongoingness) that is momentarily surprising to her. B’s
use of the simple present in this context would have been very awkward indeed,
whereas it is perfectly ﬁne in A’s following reaction (also involving a dynamic
verb), which states what A regards as a general fact, and thus typical/to be
expected:
(8) A: but she must only –
B: What is m-. . . blowing out of there?
A: Well, that’s what happens with that air conditioner.
Similarly, in example (9), as well as in example (6) above, the proﬁled event is
clearly an atypical one in the speaker’s conception of reality (that is to say,
absent in the speaker’s conception of structural reality). And once again, using a
simple present-tense form here, though grammatically appropriate, would amount
to the speaker’s portraying the event in question in a neutral, almost detached,
matter-of-fact way (there would, for instance, be no suggestion of temporariness
and the possibility of the current situation ending at some point, as with the
progressive variant):
(9) The ﬁsh weren’t running this year.
It’s like everywhere. . .
Nothing’s doing what it’s supposed to,
. . . anymore.
Example (10), then, involves some manifest irritation on the part of the
speaker, an emotion that is often associated with habits in the progressive, as
also noted by Williams (2001: 104). The presence of this particular connotation
is more understandable with dynamic, bounded (repetitions of) events, which
212 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
still carry a potential for change, than with structural, stable situations which
the speaker knows or suspects will not change:
(10) A: I mean,. . . what are they thinking?
B: I don’t know. . .
Finally, situations that are construed as unexpected and diﬃcult to predict
may arguably be approached with some sense of reservation or tentativeness, as
exempliﬁed in (11):
(11) If this thing goes like they think it is,
next fall he’s wanting to, . . .
start looking at expanding that. . . storage facility.
In this example, the stative verb want is used with the progressive to indicate
that the speaker is only making a tentative guess (or is presenting it as such)
about the future occurrence of a situation (see also Note 7). This use of the pro-
gressive to express tentativeness is also relatively frequent with the stative verb
hope.
The presence of all these (epistemically driven) connotations with the use of
the present progressive in English suggests a constant meaning element that
may be held to motivate them. Seeing this meaning as part and parcel of the
progressive’s core semantics, which we in fact characterize as being wholly
modal in nature, in our eyes constitutes a more economical and in any case
uniﬁed account of the progressive’s polysemy: modal meanings are not treated
as being in any way secondary or exceptional, and temporal meanings are
ﬁrst and foremost motivated by an epistemic schema, in line with Cognitive
Grammar’s general description of “grounding predications”.We ﬁnd further sup-
port for this position in the way we interpret Kay and Fillmore’s (1999) ﬁndings
with regard to the conventional meaning of the WXDY construction, as in What’s
this ﬂy doing in my soup?. This construction is analyzed as conveying that a
situation is judged by the speaker “to be surprising, puzzling, inappropriate,
or, as we will say, incongruous” (Kay and Fillmore 1999: 4; emphasis in the
original). The authors remark that it is indispensable for this “constructional
meaning” to arise that a progressive form be present, without which the utter-
ance’s “pragmatic force”, i.e., the suggestion of incongruity, disappears:
(12) a. What’s this ﬂy doing in my soup?
b. ? What does this ﬂy do in my soup?
Modal uses of the English present progressive 213
At the same time, they explicitly deny that this force can be tied to any one con-
stituent of the construction, including the present participle doing (which they
deny gets a progressive reading here). Given the various nuances of something
like “incongruity” showing up in many other contexts of use, it seems more rea-
sonable to us, however, to attribute at least part of the constructional meaning
of WXDY to the (obligatory) verb form appearing in it. This methodological note
does not detract from Kay and Fillmore’s original argument concerning the rele-
vance of a constructional level of interpretation, but it would perhaps address
the need for a more ample motivation of where such a meaning comes from.
Put diﬀerently, there is no intrinsic contradiction between having a meaning
ﬁgure at the level of grammatical constructions, as an “idiomatic” feature, and
simultaneously noting the contribution of one or more constituents (i.e., of the
form doing, which seems to do more than serve as a dummy “way-station”
between constructional elements). In line with our general characterization of
the present progressive and the discussion above of the progressive’s modal
connotations, then, we would propose to treat the “pragmatic force” of the
WXDY construction as at least partly informed by the semantics of one of its
constituents, viz., the present participle.
4.3 Modal usage types
Thus far, we have discussed several usage types of the present progressive that
speciﬁcally elaborate its basic meaning in the temporal domain, as they all
involve situations that are going on at the time of speaking. We argue that, at
the most schematic level, these usage types indicate that the designated situa-
tion is regarded as contingent with respect to the speaker’s conception of imme-
diate reality. As we hope to have shown, this modal schema is immanent in the
temporal usage types by virtue of the imposition of temporal boundaries upon
the proﬁled situation in the background conﬁguration of the present progres-
sive, which in turn is responsible for its close association with the expression of
dynamic, typically unstable and thus less than structural events. In section 4.2,
then, we have discussed some modal connotations that frequently accompany
certain temporal usage types. This is an issue that addresses an important tradi-
tion in research on the progressive’s semantics, in which this construction is
seen as expressing a modal meaning, viz., that of an intention attributed to the
grammatical subject (13) or to the speaker (14; these and the following examples
come from or are based on Larreya and Rivière 2002):
(13) Brian is leaving tomorrow.
(14) You are not sitting in that armchair!
214 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
These forms, too, are categorized by us as primarily temporal, because of their
futurate reference (see Figure 2), with a modal connotation. Other usage types
often characterized as modal, but treated by us as still basically temporal,
include the use of the progressive form with temporary habituals (15), statives
(16), and as a form of attenuation (17), all of which have already been touched
upon above as well (in Notes 4 and 7 and section 4.2, respectively):
(15) He is smoking huge cigars these days.
(16) He’s being extraordinarily kind (for once).
(17) I’m hoping to borrow some money.
In some cases, however, the unconsolidated status of the proﬁled situation
is really prominent and any temporal notions of current ongoingness (or dura-
tion, temporariness, etc.) are highly downplayed, if present at all. In these usage
types, the modal meaning of contingency is the primary observable motivation
for using a present-progressive form (that is, from the context there seems to be
no temporal/aspectual reason not to use a simple present), yielding the “modal
usage types” marked separately in Figure 2.
This brings us back to example (1), repeated here in (18):
(18) . . . Well he says minorities.
He’s smart.
He talks about minorities.
But he’s really talking about African Americans.
In this case, there is no temporal or aspectual motivation for the speaker’s
switch to the progressive in the ﬁnal sentence (there is, for instance, no notion
of temporariness present, contrary to what is usually the case with habits in the
progressive). It might be strange to see the progressive, which we argue is
reserved for the expression of contingent realities, appear in a context which
seems to present the exact opposite: the expression of a reality whose certainty
the speaker actually wishes to emphasize. But in our view, the present pro-
gressive is used here to zoom in on an event represented as (virtually) ongoing,
creating the impression of something that may be directly observed in the
present (and recall that such directly observed events in the present are typically
expressed in English using a progressive form). This event is thereby somehow
construed with a greater sense of intensity (also present in iterative/repetitive
uses), stressing its actual character (cf. also the epistemic adverb really) in
spite of the fact that there is no singular event of talking going on at the time of
speaking. Contrary to the events in the previous clauses, which are all construed
by means of a simple present, the event in the ﬁnal sentence has a qualiﬁed status
Modal uses of the English present progressive 215
with respect to the ground: real though it is, the speaker signals that a situation
is not to be taken for granted. Not incidentally, example (18) involves the verb
talk: this use of the present progressive is frequently attested with verbs of
communication (also in non-habitual contexts), as in: So what he’s saying is. . .
or What I’m trying to say is. . .
Similarly, in example (19), the speaker emphasizes what she is actually
doing in a certain typical situation (presumably not going on at the time of
speaking):
(19) I always have somebody that really knows what they’re doing,
For the horses that I’m really really using.
Again, the speaker refers to a habitual action (cf. always in the ﬁrst line) by
means of a present progressive, instead of a simple present, so as to stress its
actual nature (i.e., a reality that always holds now, like a state that is constantly
“re-enacted”). Just like in (18), this example prominently features an element of
intensiﬁcation (witness the reduplicated epistemic adverb). Such intensifying
uses again demonstrate the special connection of the English present progres-
sive with bounded, dynamic events. Usually, these uses highlight the personal
involvement and active investment on the part of the subject to keep the event
going. Such active investment is not necessary with states (that are presented as
such, i.e., without any element of re-enactment), since they maintain themselves,
so to speak.
We suggest the following diagram for representing those uses of the progres-
sive where, in spite of this construction’s basic meaning, reference is made to an
objectively structural series of events (e.g., a habit, as in 18 and 19):
Figure 7: An apparent paradox: The use of the progressive to refer to structural situations
216 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
In Figure 7, the reference (indicated in bold within IS2) is situated in a virtual
plane, since no actual occurrence (e.g., of using horses in 19) needs to coincide
with the time of speaking. This reﬂects the fact that certain uses of the present
progressive may not be temporally but modally motivated. The virtual/mental
occurrence of the designated situation can be made to contain the time of speak-
ing in exactly the way it is prescribed by the progressive’s semantics. The virtual
proﬁle in this conﬁguration is connected via correspondence lines with multiple
actual instantiations of the event type. This virtual plane can be interpreted as
representing the speaker’s knowledge about the structure of the world (and
about the structural status of certain event or state types that may not be percep-
tually accessible). The eﬀect of a structural event being re-enacted at the time of
speaking, for which the progressive is responsible, is achieved by using a gram-
matical construction that is usually reserved for describing (the perception of)
momentary, singular, and contingent states of aﬀairs; but in contrast with the
latter category, the speaker may at any arbitrary point in time choose to conjure
up a valid instantiation of the structural event, since there are no restrictions on
its accessibility in the speaker’s model of structural reality. This analysis should
also apply to cases involving verbs of communication, where typically a progres-
sive form follows a simple form of the same verb (e.g., say, ask). In such cases,
the second event of, for example, saying is really a repetition of the ﬁrst and not
a new event in its own right. This makes the second event, marked by the pro-
gressive, virtual in any case, since it elaborates on an event that is objectively
speaking already past or whose starting point at the very least does not coincide
with its own, and so it seems that we need to introduce some type of virtual or
subjective element by virtue of the very fact that the saying (or asking etc.) in
question always evokes earlier instances of which it is supposed to reveal some
non-evident truth.
These modal usage types, typically featuring epistemic adverbs such as
really and actually,9 are often overlooked in overviews of the English progressive
(cf. Scheﬀer 1976; Williams 2002). Mindt (2000) does mention them as instantiat-
ing one of the meanings of the progressive, viz. “highlighting/prominence”, but
this is a purely descriptive study without any attempt to integrate the meaning
types distinguished. In some other studies, these usage types of the English pro-
gressive are discussed more extensively. Larreya (1999: 147), for instance, has
remarked that certain uses of the progressive with really and actually present
“general truths” (as in So the bark is actually helping the plant to survive when
9 The presence of these adverbs suggests a strong aﬃnity with certain grammatical markers
dedicated to the expression of predication focus, as in the Bantu language Shangaci (Maud
Devos, p. c.). It is not unreasonable, in our eyes, to assume that the present progressive has
developed a speciﬁc meaning type for the indication of this type of focus, a meaning type that
lies outside of the realm of TAM marking altogether.
Modal uses of the English present progressive 217
there is absolutely no water around?) and thus violate the rule that these are
expressed in English by means of the simple present. It seems, however, that
this is true only for a minority of such uses (those appearing in scientiﬁc texts
or vulgarizations). Still, Larreya makes a valid point when he describes them as
involving the re-identiﬁcation of a reality, a type of re-enactment as proposed for
the analysis of the examples above: it is as if the speaker recreates the exact
moment of discovering some true fact (before its consolidation as an accepted
truth, i.e., it is still construed as contingent; cf. Figure 1), and is recreating it
as she speaks, i.e., at the time of speaking. Though Larreya fails to include this
particular usage in a more uniﬁed account, his description of it is in line with
our own in terms of a virtual (called “subjective” by Larreya 1999: 148) event
going on (possibly on a structural plane) right now10. What we add to this is
that this use is motivated through various links in the network of the English
present progressive with other usage types that include an element of intensity
as a semantic feature (i.e., it is not just an arbitrary extension or the instantia-
tion of a vague schematic meaning).
5 Conclusion
In line with the approach to tense and grounding adopted within Cognitive
Grammar, we have proposed a uniﬁed analysis of the semantics of the English
present progressive. At the most schematic level, its meaning is best described
in terms of epistemic contingency in the speaker’s conception of reality. That is,
in contrast with the simple present tense – which indicates the epistemic neces-
sity of a situation and thus refers to immediate reality in an unqualiﬁed way –,
10 It is not entirely correct to say that, e.g., Larreya and Rivière (2002: 42) do not present some-
thing of a uniﬁed account of what they call BE + -ING, but the schematic meaning they propose
is either purely aspectual (in terms of an internal viewpoint), which does not (directly) cover
certain modal usage types, or too vague (in terms of the grammatical subject “participating”
or being “attached” to an event) to use to motivate all of the concrete meaning types we have
distinguished here. Still within the enunciativist tradition, a more elaborate proposal for a
uniﬁed analysis of the BE + -ING construction has been proposed by Adamczewski (1978).
Adamczewski devotes considerable attention to examples similar to (18) in order to illustrate
how the progressive, in his analysis, functions as an abstract “meta-operator”: a mechanism
associated with thematized (topicalized) situations, i.e., situations that are co(n)textually given
(while the simple present typically involves situations that are introduced for the ﬁrst time).
However, in our view, such an “anaphoric” function of the progressive seems quite implausible
(after all, anaphoric reference can also involve a simple-present construal – cf. the third line
of example 18–, as long as the subjects and predicates of the utterances are co-referential;
cf. also Tharaud 2008) and diﬃcult to reconcile with many of the other usage types we have
encountered in our corpus.
218 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
the present progressive is used to indicate situations that are real yet not felt to
be structural by the speaker and, consequently, the relation between the ground
and the proﬁled process does get qualiﬁed (which is marked morphologically
by means of the -ing form). Linguistic data from the Santa Barbara corpus of
spoken American English show that temporal as well as purely modal usage
types can be derived from this schematic meaning, and that the unconsolidated
status of events construed with the present progressive is often reﬂected in the
presence of modal connotations such as “surprise” or “irritation”.
References
Adamczewski, Henri. 1978. BE + ING dans la grammaire de l’anglais contemporain. Paris: Librairie
Honoré Champion.
Allen, Robert Livingston. 1966. The Verb System of Present-Day American English. The Hague:
Mouton.
Bertinetto, Pier Marco, Karen H. Ebert and Casper de Groot. 2000. The progressive in Europe.
In: Östen Dahl (ed.), Tense and Aspect in the Languages of Europe, 517–558. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Binnick, Robert I. 1991. Time and the Verb: A Guide to Tense and Aspect. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Brisard, Frank (ed.). 2002a. Grounding: The Epistemic Footing of Deixis and Reference. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Brisard, Frank. 2002b. The English present. In: Frank Brisard (ed.), Grounding: The Epistemic
Footing of Deixis and Reference, 251–297. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Collins, Peter. 2008. The progressive aspect in World Englishes: A corpus-based study. Australian
Journal of Linguistics 28(2): 225–249.
DeLancey, Scott. 1997. Mirativity: The grammatical marking of unexpected information, Linguistic
Typology 1(1): 33–52.
De Wit, Astrid and Frank Brisard. 2013. A cognitive grammar account of the English present pro-
gressive. Journal of Linguistics. Published online by Cambridge University Press, 8 July
2013. [To appear in print in Journal of Linguistics, 50, 2014]
Dowty, David. 1977. Towards a semantic analysis of verb aspect and the English “imperfective
progressive”. Linguistics and Philosophy 1: 45–78.
Du Bois, John W., Wallace L. Chafe, Charles Meyer Sandra A. Thompson. 2000. Santa Barbara
Corpus of Spoken American English, Part 1. Philadelphia: Linguistic Data Consortium.
Hirtle, Walter H. 1967. The Simple and Progressive Forms: An Analytical Approach. Québec:
Presses de l’Université Laval.
Joos, Martin. 1964. The English Verb (Form and Meaning). Madison: The University of Wisconsin
Press.
Kay, Paul and Charles J. Fillmore. 1999. Grammatical constructions and linguistic generaliza-
tions: The What’s X doing Y? construction. Language 75: 1–33.
Kaltenböck, Gunther. 2003. Review of Progressive and Non-Progressive Aspect in English.
English Language and Linguistics 7(2): 344–347.
Modal uses of the English present progressive 219
Langacker, Ronald W. 1987. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Volume 1: Theoretical Pre-
requisites. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1991. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Volume 2: Descriptive Applica-
tion. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2001. The English present tense, English Language and Linguistics 5:
251–273.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2002. Deixis and subjectivity. In: Frank Brisard (ed.), Grounding: The
Epistemic Footing of Deixis and Reference, 1–28. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2011. The English present: Temporal coincidence vs. epistemic immediacy.
In: Adeline Patard and Frank Brisard (eds.), Cognitive Approaches to Tense, Aspect and
Epistemic Modality, 45–86. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Larreya, Paul. 1999. BE + -ING est-il un marqueur d’aspect?, Anglophonia 6: 135–150.
Larreya, Paul and Claude Rivière. 2002. Grammaire explicative de l’anglais. London: Longman.
Ljung, Magnus. 1980. Reﬂections on the English Progressive. Gothenburg: Gotab.
Michaelis, Laura A. 2004. Type shifting in construction grammar: An integrated approach to
aspectual coercion. Cognitive Linguistics 15(1): 1–67.
Mindt, Dieter. 2000. An Empirical Grammar of the English Verb System. Berlin: Cornelsen Verlag.
Palmer, Frank. 1968. A Linguistic Study of the English Verb: London: Longman.
Portner, Paul. 1998. The progressive in modal semantics. Language 74(4): 760–787.
Römer, Ute. 2005. Progressives, Patterns, Pedagogy: A Corpus-Driven Approach to English Pro-
gressive Forms, Functions, Contexts and Didactics. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Scheﬀer, Johannes. 1975. The Progressive in English. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Tharaud, François. 2008. Monosémie et diversité des emplois: Le cas de BE + V-ing en anglais.
In: Audrey Lauze, Joan Barceló and Adeline Patard (eds.), De la langue au discours: l’un et
le multiple dans les outils grammaticaux, 83–197. Montpellier: PULM.
Vendler, Zeno. 1957. Verbs and times. The Philosophical Review 66(2): 143–160.
Vendler, Zeno. 1967. Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Williams, Christopher. 2001. The progressive form and the non-progressive form in English: The
theory of “susceptibility to change”. CAUCE, Revista de Filología y su Didáctica 24: 87–117.
Williams, Christopher. 2002. Non-Progressive and Progressive Aspect in English. Fasano:
Schena Editore.
220 Frank Brisard and Astrid De Wit
Debra Ziegeler
On the generic argument for the
modality of will
1 Introduction
Previous research into the historical developments of the English modal verb
categories have devoted little attention to the problems of explaining the semantic
origins of the forms themselves, with notable exceptions of course being studies
such as Traugott (1989) and Traugott and Dasher (2002) in which the problems
were explicated using the mechanics of pragmatic inferencing methodologies.
However, in spite of such studies, there is still a certain reluctance in present-
day research to attribute to modal verbs such as will and can full modal status
(see, e.g. Palmer 1986; Salkie 2010), and will has been the target of dispute over
its status as either a modal or a tense operator. In a previous study on the
origins of future prediction meanings in the modal verb will (Ziegeler 2006a), it
was seen that the course of history has a great deal to contribute to what we
know about modality in general, and that the original Old English functions of
this modal were not, contrary to what had been previously claimed, found in
volitional meanings of intention (see, e.g. Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994),
but in those expressing a general tendency or proclivity (characterising uses),
which were labeled, for the purposes of that study, generic. As such, they were
found frequently with non-speciﬁc subjects or objects, in environments which
could lend themselves readily to such interpretations, and it was out of these
generic environments that speaker predictions could be said to emerge. In addi-
tion, the study had proposed a three-stage development of general modal mean-
ings, using will as an example. In this way, a new description of modal functions
was proposed, in order to accommodate the semantics of will within the same
category distinctions as modals of obligation or permission such as may and
must. This description and the three stages will be reviewed in more detail
below.
1 It is not a prerogative of the present study to attempt to place measurable indices on the
degrees of truth valuation potentially attributable to modal statements, as Cohen (1999) had
endeavoured to do in his study of the truth values of generics. However, in any further explora-
tion of this area, it may be considered that the semantic diﬀerences between epistemic necessity
and epistemic possibility could contribute signiﬁcantly to the diﬀerent levels of speaker com-
mitment towards modal predicates.
The present study aims to reinforce the category status of will as a modal
verb, using the distinctions of Ziegeler’s (2006a) study, but within the parameters
of a dual time dimension. In order to undertake such an analysis, it is pre-
supposed from the outset that the development of modality may take place in
more than one way: (i) historically, as we view the possible changes that may
have contributed to the evolution of the language in its present-day form (and
in such ways we are limited to a restricted pool of ancient texts to provide
evidence); (ii) ontogenetically, in which we can observe the development of
such categories from the point of view of child learning patterns; and (iii) neo-
phylogenetically, in which we see the vague replication of certain historical
developmental patterns in the creation of new varieties of the same language.
In a number of recent studies, it was observed that the frequency of uses of will
as a habitual modal were much greater in some new varieties of English than in
more established varieties (see Deterding 2003, 2007; Deuber 2009). Given what
is known about the historical development of the modal will, it seems possible
that diachronic-neo-phylogenetic analogies can be postulated for its gramma-
ticalisation paths. If so, it oﬀers a diﬀerent perspective on the modal status of
will as having derived from similar sources in both cases, thus reinforcing the
evidence for its categorisation as a marker of modality, rather than tense. Similar
modal derivations apply to the generic origins of be supposed to (of belief, evi-
dentiality) (see Ziegeler 2008), and have to (Ziegeler 2010); in both cases the
generic sources were seen as providing the appropriate diachronic context for
the derivation of modal meanings.
The present study will examine arguments on the modal status of will,
including those which claim that the presence of generic functions means that
will is not modal since generics belong to other categories (e.g. Salkie 2010).
The study ﬁnds that habitual functions are especially prominent in new varieties
of English, providing a valid justiﬁcation for the possibility that such functions
may be replicating the generic origins of the old varieties of the same language,
as habituals are a sub-category of generics. It will be further argued that the
modality of will is the result of a metonymic association between genericity and
prediction, forming an area of overlap between aspect and modality, and there-
fore that the habitual uses of will provide suﬃciently strong evidence for re-
claiming its status as a modal.
2 Categorising will
2.1 Predictive = epistemic?
Until quite recently, it was believed that there was some relation of gramma-
ticalisation between the lexical source meaning of volition in will and its present-
222 Debra Ziegeler
day uses as a modal expressing futurity (e.g. Aijmer 1985; Bybee and Pagliuca
1987; Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994; Hopper and Traugott 1993/2003). What
has taken more time to sort out has been the diﬃculty of associating will with
the classical distinctions of either deontic or epistemic meaning, and further,
of accounting for what are sometimes known as “dispositional” uses. In some
of the historical accounts, e.g. Warner (1993), it was believed that future will
appeared as early as in Old English, despite the claims by Traugott (1989) that
such uses were associated mainly with subordinate clauses and therefore did
not employ the speaker as the deictic point of reference. A closer examination
of Warner’s examples reveals that they are indeed mainly restricted to either
conditional or other subordinate clause scope, or co-occur with indeﬁnite sub-
jects (Ziegeler 2006a: 98). In addition, there were problems of time reference to
disentangle: in some accounts, the predictive meanings of future will were
labelled as equivalent to epistemic functions in other modals (cf. Bybee, Perkins,
and Pagliuca 1994; Coates 1983; Fleischman 1982; Givón 1994; Goossens 1982;
Heine, Ulrike, and Hünnemeyer 1991; Palmer 1987, 1990; Ziegeler 2000), which
entailed that the usual deontic-epistemic modal grammaticalisation pathway would
need to be veriﬁed historically, something that had not been clearly demon-
strated in any of the studies. However, in Ziegeler (2006a,b) it was proposed
that predictive modality need not correspond to a form of epistemic modality,
since the time reference of epistemic modal meanings was usually concomitent
with the moment of speaking, while the time reference of deontic propositions is
after the moment of speaking; i.e., predictive. Given such a framework, it was
seen as impossible to continue associating prediction with a form of epistemic
modality: epistemic modality is the result of deductive inferences on the part of
the speaker relating to the existence of states and circumstances co-temporal
with the moment of speaking, and it is this sharp pragmatic distinction which
had invited a recategorisation of the nature of modality in will. This is why only
examples such as the following (1a) may be considered epistemic:
(1) a. I’m sorry about Brandy – maybe he will be sitting on a cloud with all
your hammies and Basil (the Gardener) by now. . .
<ICE-GB:W1B-004 #132:3>
(1a) was taken from the ICE-Corpus (GB); such examples, however, were infre-
quent. In epistemic uses, the predicate refers to a state co-temporal with the
deductive inference made about it – it is the moment of speaking; for this
reason, the example cannot be considered a prediction about a future event, as
in (1b):
On the generic argument for the modality of will 223
(1) b. Here’s uhm I’ll just show you the actual setup we’re going to be using,
The wizard will sit in one room here, in the room next door to the
subject. <ICE-GB:S2A-035 #96-7:3:A>
It has been argued, though, that in expressions like (1a) it is the factuality of the
complement may be veriﬁable in the future and that this forms the source of a
prediction as well. However, such veriﬁcation is incidental to the expression
itself, and does not need to be applied at the time of speaking. This could not
be said of (1b), in which the event of the wizard’s sitting takes place after the
moment of speaking, no matter what. It is the subjectiﬁcation of epistemic ex-
pressions (e.g. Traugott 1989; Traugott and Dasher 2002) that orients their time
reference to the moment of speaking.
The temporal approach to the entire categorisation of modal verbs in English
enabled, in Ziegeler (2006a,b), a re-categorisation of the core modal verbs to be
in accord with diﬀerences of speaker knowledge of the possible truth value of
the predicate, in the following way:
(2) a. Deontic modality: K[~ pt(0)]
b. Epistemic modality: ~ K[pt(0)]
In (2a) the symbol K represents the amount of knowledge attributed to the speaker
over the realisation of the complement proposition, p, the superscript t repre-
senting the time reference, which in (2a–b) is equivalent to the time of speaking
(marked as zero). Thus, (2a) can be read as “knowledge that p is not the case at
the moment of speaking”, and (2b) can be read as “no (certain) knowledge that
p is the case at the time of speaking”. (2b) could be criticised as underspecifying
the true meaning of an epistemic modal expression, but the notation was
intended to convey the fact that there is a diﬀerence between necessary truth or
truth by deﬁnition, and factual truth known to the speaker – see Givón (1989:
129). The same observations have been made by Larreya (1984: 65) who notes
that there is an implicature of uncertainty in epistemic expressions such as He
may/must be at home which can be articulated as “I do not know (for sure) if
he is at home or not”. If the modality expressed factual truth, there would be
no need for a modal marker at all (including modal adverbs), so that (1a) would
read:
(3) He is sitting on a cloud with all your hammies and Basil . . .
By formulating (2b), then, as an absence of knowledge of p at the moment of
speaking, it also indicates that there is a level of absence of speaker commit-
ment to the proposition expressed in the predicate. (3) would perhaps indicate
224 Debra Ziegeler
that the level of speaker commitment could be indexed at 100%, while (2b)
probably would rate it at around 75%–90%. The epistemic modals indicate that
the speaker does not wish to make a fully committed, unmodalised statement,
and indicates a degree of absence of knowledge pertaining to the total factual
status of the complement proposition. The reformulation of the modal categories
using a K(nowledge)-operator, with time reference indicators, provides ample
justiﬁcation for placing future will in the same category as a deontic modal
rather than an epistemic modal: the predication refers to an event that is realis-
able only after the moment of speaking, not potentially realisable concomitent
with the moment of speaking. The inclusion of will alongside deontic modals
therefore leads to a recategorisation of the entire group of non-epistemic modals.
2.2 Non-epistemic will
The term deontic is used, covering most of what have been described in previous
traditional studies such as Palmer (1986/2001) and Lyons (1977) as non-epistemic
uses. However, the term deontic requires further introspection, since it is mainly
associated with modals used in expressing directive speech acts (see also Larreya
1984), or with the (sometimes ambiguous) reporting of such speech acts, e.g.,
You may go now/He may go now. As such, its appearance often requires a form
of “orientation-switch”, in which the modal source switches from its orientation
in the subject (for example, may was derived originally from an Old English verb
expressing personal ability – see, e.g. Goossens 2000) to an orientation in the
speaker, a shift to deonticity that appears to prelude the advent of later, epistemic
meanings. In recent years, studies such as Van der Auwera and Plungian (1998)
have recategorised the non-epistemic uses according to whether or not the
source of the modality is inherent in the subject (participant-internal) or not
(participant-external). The diﬀerence between participant-internal and participant-
external is important to the present study, as examples were found in Ziegeler
(2006a,b) of deontic as opposed to predictive will. However, in that study,
all such cases were lumped together under the single category of “Future-
Projecting” modality, since this term covers the objective temporal functions
adequately without the need for further distinction, eliminating any kind of
semantic ambiguity. The functions of predictive will, then, were categorised in
the same modal class as those of deontic must, should, and may, as illustrated
in (2a) in the following way, Future-Projecting replacing deontic:
(4) Future-projecting: K[~ pt(0)]
and epistemic will satisﬁed the same categorisation requirements as other epis-
temic modals, as illustrated in (2b).
On the generic argument for the modality of will 225
Thus, the presence of possible deontic uses (as found in examples such as
in: You will report to the orderly at 10 o’clock), in which the orientation-source of
the modality comes from the speaker, and not from the subject, were not dis-
tinguished in Ziegeler (2006a,b) (these are equivalent to Van der Auwera and
Plungian’s (1998) participant-external types).2 In the present study it could be
suggested that (4) could be further subcategorised according to the orientation
source of the modality (with the subject or with the speaker). For the moment,
though, it is maintained that the category of Future-Projecting modality is a
superordinate category, its description pertaining only to the combination of
factuality level and time reference, while the categories of subject-internal modality
and subject-external (deontic) modality may be located at a more speciﬁc level
of description. These distinctions will become more obvious below.
2.3 Generic will
The presence of examples in Old English that were not expressable in terms of the
two categories summarised in (4) has also led to much discussion and disagree-
ment. These examples referred to a type of use that did not emphasise prediction
as the basis of its meaning, but a kind of dispositional quality attributable to a
non-speciﬁc subject. The earliest one recorded in the former study (Ziegeler
2006a) was observed in Traugott (1989: 39):
(5) elpendes hyd wile drincan wæter.
‘elephant’s hide will absorb water.’
Orosius 230.26
This example was little discussed at the time, though later accounts repeated it,
such as Warner (1993: 167), who described it as an extension of earlier meanings
of ‘to will, wish, be willing’ and representing a kind of characteristic predisposi-
tion of the subject. Little more was done to attempt to tie it in with the semantic
2 The deontic meanings in will were argued by Kissine (2008: 153) to be simply a pragmatic
product of adequate illocutionary force combined with the modal scope of “covert” epistemic
necessity, so that, contrary to Ziegeler’s (2006a) claims, a deontic such as You will leave the
town tomorrow morning with the ﬁrst train can be replaced with It is the case that you leave the
town tomorrow morning with the ﬁrst train. However, the capacity for replacement with non-
modal forms remains questionable: nothing is the case until it has occurred, rendering such
statements infelicitous if referring to the future. Moreover, Kissine’s claims for a “covert” epistemic
necessity reading of will as underlying the deontic uses do not accord with the usual functions
of epistemic modality as discussed above. Allusions to necessity meanings, however, are founded
in the pragmatic extension of characterising generic senses to become universal, kind-denoting
types, as discussed further below.
226 Debra Ziegeler
changes that were taking place at the time, though Warner’s data, as mentioned
earlier, does include mention of future uses of will as early as Old English.
In more recent years, similar classic examples, such as:
(6) Oil will ﬂoat on water.
have been described by Huddleston (1995) as examples of “propensity will”,
and the same example was cited by Dahl (1995: 419) who suggested that future
modals might be the sources for such propensity functions, which he called
habituality uses. Comrie (1985) was also cited by Dahl as claiming that such
uses followed the predictive future uses of will; if so, the future meanings must
have been well established in Old English times to provide the basis for an
extension to express propensity. However, according to Traugott (1989), they were
not well established at the time.
Palmer (1986) had lumped such uses together with the ability functions of
can under the category of dynamic modality, and claimed (1990: 7) that since
these uses were not subjective, they were not modal. Thus, for Palmer, modality
was directly aligned with the notion of subjectivity. Later accounts such as
Narrog (2005) have set subjectivity apart from modality, demonstrating that sub-
jectivity and modality are not interdeﬁnable in this way. This is not a problem,
then, for deﬁnitions of modality that rank subjectivity as only a facet of modality,
but not an essential ingredient. The development of speaker-subjectivity appears
as a by-product of the switch of orientation of modal sources from those involving
the subject alone to those that fall within the speaker’s domain of evaluation
and control.
Gisborne (2007) prefers to exclude dynamic modals from the modal paradigm,
particularly since they do not reduce to necessity and possibility operators.
However, this does not take into account the true meanings of the dynamic
modals as expressing characterising attributes, as seen in (6), propositions that
could well be implicated with a reading of modal necessity. Note also that there
is no overlay of volition in (6) at all, nor even in (5), one of the earliest recorded
uses of the modal will. Bybee (1988) notes that dynamic will can only be used to
express changes of state (but examples like Boys will be boys are not accounted
for under such restrictions).3 This means also that stative verbs are excluded
from its contexts, e.g.:
(7) *Elephants will have long trunks.
3 Such tautologies are discussed by Kissine (2008: 147n) as having come to denote a property
idiomatically. It is possible to paraphrase the expression as Boys will behave like boys, or similar,
thus preserving the intended meaning and at the same time, introducing a change-of-state; it is
doubtful whether such idioms are at all productive.
On the generic argument for the modality of will 227
The reason for such restrictions could be hypothesised as due to the lexical
origins of will, which would not permit any kind of volitional control over a state
of being; this would be simply a case of lexical retention (persistence) in gram-
maticalisation (Bybee and Pagliuca 1987). However, examples such as
(8) Elephants will often have long trunks.
were seen in Ziegeler (2006a,b) to be more amenable to interpretation, mainly
because the meanings of necessary, law-like states could be cancelled by the
addition of a frequency adverb: having long trunks is not exceptionless in the
elephant kingdom and universality is thus simply a pragmatic inference. In
addition, the volitional retention in will is no longer present, for three reasons:
(i) non-statives suggest a reading that refers to the temporal distribution of
generic events, whereas with statives the reading is spatially distributed over
participants (see below). A temporally-distributed generic created by volitional
will, necessary for cases in which the predicate is non-stative, is thus ruled out
in (7), leaving only the spatially- distributed generic meaning as a possible alter-
native; (ii) the co-occurrence of often with a spatially-distributed generic in turn
aﬀects the meaning of the temporal adverb, leaving as the only possible inter-
pretation that the state of having long trunks is distributed frequently across
multiple exemplars of the subject, not that the subjects can change the length
of their trunks at will; i.e., the adverb has leftward-extending scope. Spatially-
distributed generics thus allow for stative predicates, with or without will, and
are unaﬀected by the retention of volitional senses in will; (iii) the characteristic
of having long trunks was always a characteristic, not an essential property,
even in the absence of a modal – consider Kissine’s (2008: 148) example: ?Bears
will be mammals, which cannot be rendered acceptable by the same means:
?Bear will often be mammals, for the reason that it refers to an essential charac-
teristic, not a tendency.
Kissine (2008: 149) rejects the claims made by Ziegeler (2006a) that examples
like (8) are still generic, suggesting that such generics must not be instantiated
at utterance time, and since having long trunks is an essential characteristic of
elephants, it must have instantiation at utterance time.4 His argument deﬁnes
4 It is not only generics with stative predicates that are incompatible with will; an example
such as: (a) In Britain, motorists will drive on the left side of the road is not a stative predicate,
and yet is is not totally felicitous; it is also an “essential” generic. The addition of a frequency
adverb makes the meaning even less felicitous, if not alarming: (b) In Britain, motorists will
often drive on the left side of the road. This is because the choice of which side of the road
to drive on, in most countries, is not a matter over which the agent may have any volitional
choice, and the predicate is incompatible with the (characterising) meanings of generic tendency
resulting from the insertion of a volition modal such as will into the generic context.
228 Debra Ziegeler
a will-generic as a statement which expresses truths that are necessarily not
instantiated at utterance time, and by implication, are therefore false at utterance
time. However, such a deﬁnition of generics may be somewhat misleading,
ﬁrst, since Kissine does not discriminate between truth and actualisation. Non-
actualisation does not entail falsity, whatever the time reference of an utterance;
if it did, it would mean that any statement made that did not coincide with the
actualisation of what it expresses would be false, including those refering to
past events. To suggest that the non-instantiation of P at utterance time is equi-
valent to its falsity is the same as creating a bi-conditional out of a conditional:
what is not known to be actualised at utterance time need not be implicated
as known-not to be true. Second, and perhaps more importantly, Kissine is so
persuaded by the notion of will as a future tense marker that he has misunder-
stood the meaning of generic modality as expressing atemporality, rather than
omnitemporality, something which is essential to the understanding of generics
and of the development of diachronic source modal meanings in will as well
as in many other modal forms which began life functioning in the same way as
today’s “dynamic” categories as described by Palmer. There may well be cases of
oil ﬂoating on water at utterance time, as in (6), though it is not the case that
the speaker may always know of such states of aﬀairs; the knowledge of a scien-
tiﬁc fact, however, is suﬃcient to enable the omnitemporal universality of the
generic distribution of such predicates, which may or may not include utterance
time.
Kissine (2008), therefore, fails to take into account the diachronic data which
indicate that the nature of generic will is simply to express a tendency aﬀecting
a general subset of all the cases its subject refers to, rather than a law-like state-
ment. The interpretation of will as expressing necessity is a pragmatic inference,
rendering as universal the distributional tendencies of the events it qualiﬁes.
That is, will may be deﬁned in terms of genericity as having a characterising
function rather than a kind-related generic use (see, e.g. Carlson 2006; Krifka et al
1995: 3–4), though this does not make it any less generic, according to Krifka
et al.’s deﬁnitions. That is the very reason that a modal of volition was recruited
for the function – as a volition modal, it is best equipped to deal with tendencies
that are inherent in animate beings, and by extension, inanimate entities as
well. Even the case of oil ﬂoating on water is subject to speciﬁc physical condi-
tions which may only be deﬁned by science. Speakers are unable to make excep-
tionless claims about the general nature of things in the world. Modals are used
for generic purposes not because they must be applied to every relevant circum-
stance, but because they can be. Hence, Carlson’s (2006) deﬁnition of generics
as information assumed to hold for any given relevant instance, unless speciﬁc
On the generic argument for the modality of will 229
information is provided to the contrary, is important, and a deﬁnition which
entails a role for generics as focusing elements: will in generic usage thus places
a focus on the proclivities of its subjects. The observation of tendencies or pro-
clivities is thus the evidential basis for the pragmatically extended implicatures
of necessity (inductively derived from the observation of suﬃcient examples);
that is, a tendency, observed with suﬃcient frequency, becomes reinterpreted
as a universal distribution of the proposed event or state. What is meant by
“suﬃcient” examples is open to interpretation: a universal statement will be
made on the strength of a pragmatic Quantity 2 implicature in which only the
speaker’s judgement will provide the basis for the extension of the distributional
boundaries. Thus, the universality of the use of the modal will vary from one
instance to another and from one speaker to another. Although Kissine (2008:
147) acknowledges the presence of disposition meanings in will, he alludes to
the possibility that they are entailed by universal meanings, rather than that
they are the pragmatic source of universal meanings. So, rather than regarding
the meanings of universality as pragmatic extensions of the disposition meanings,
he ﬁnds problems in the inability of the disposition meanings to account for uni-
versal, law-like statements, and takes this as evidence that will is not generic.
Salkie (2010) argues for the absence of modality in generic uses of will,
mainly from the point of comparison with French future tense, in which future
morphology, having grammaticalised from a completely diﬀerent lexical source
(a verb meaning ‘have’), does not function to express generic meanings. The
same could be said of many languages, but this does not need to aﬀect the
situation of functional overlap in English. He dismisses the functions of charac-
teristic properties, as in (6), or persistent habits, as in (9) as belonging to the
domain of genericity, not modality (2010: 192):
(9) He’ll sit in his room all day staring at the TV.
Clearly, such uses are a nuisance for proponents of the tense-only approach to
the functions of will, since it is not clear whether the “domain of genericity” is
aspectual or modal in character – it is certainly not a tense, and genericity does
not comprise a morphological category in itself, being thus in need of description
in accordance with existing morphosyntactic distinctions across languages.5
5 Radden (2009: 200n) notes that no language seems to have forms exclusively grammaticalised
to mark generics, citing Dahl (1995: 425). Although generics cannot share the same meanings as
tense, the use of the simple past tense in English may be construed generically, especially in the
presence of a frequency adverb (see (10)).
230 Debra Ziegeler
Langacker (1997: 191) described generics as “. . . expressions that ascribe a general
property to all members of a class”, and habituals as expressions referring to
customary and repeated events. In many ways, then, the diﬀerence is one of
either spatially-distributed genericity or temporally-distributed genericity. In
Ziegeler (2006a: 91), the deﬁnitions were taken as interlocking: generics refer-
ring to multiple participants over which a single event or property may hold,
while habituals refer to a single participant to which multiple events may be
attributed. However, even multiple events may be attributed to multiple partici-
pants, e.g. Dogs bark, enabling a double-generic reading. Carlson (2006) makes
no distinction between generics and habituals, except in terminology. Givón
(1994) had referred to habituals as a “swing category” cross-linguistically, between
realis and irrealis meaning; hence, implying the generative onset of modality from
such hybrid sources. Cristofaro (2004) has also noted the same ambivalence in the
crosslinguistic expression of generics and habituals, and Dahl (1995: 418–419)
ﬁnds that in many languages (e.g. Cebuano and Tamil), an irrealis form is used
to express habituals or generics as well as futures. In the present study, it may
be preferable to label generic modals as boundary modals, because of such
ambiguity.
Salkie goes on to admit that the potentiality expressable by examples such as
(6) enables them to be considered as taking place in the future, but as generics,
he considers that this does not make them refer to future time, in the same way
as the use of the simple past in generic examples like (10):
(10) He sat in his room all day staring at the TV.
still has past time reference, in spite of its possible generic interpretation (which
would, it must be admitted, require some sort of adverbial framing for genericity
in order to be disambiguated from a single event reading). Salkie’s analysis,
though, lacks the necessary pragmatics required to understand the way in which
future time reference may be readily derived from modal potentiality meanings,
and thus leaves open the question of the origins of future tense markers other-
wise. In the historical account presented by Ziegeler (2004, 2006a), a high fre-
quency of generic uses pre-dated the future, predictive functions of will, and
led to the hypothesis that predictive functions arose out of the earlier generic
uses in Old English; similar results were later found in Wischer (2006). Salkie’s
(2010: 191) conclusion that generic uses arose out of future uses instead, an
assumption shared by other accounts (as noted above), cannot be upheld from
the diachronic perspective. These functions were originally volitional functions
generalised over generic subjects; as such they acquired a predictive nuance
On the generic argument for the modality of will 231
derived from the speaker’s observations of the subjects’ tendencies and charac-
teristics, a nuance that eventually became the source for meanings of future
time reference. The three modal types that can be associated with will in present-
day usage were described in Ziegeler (2006a,b) in the following way:
(11) Generic will: K[pt(n)] (example 6)
Future-projecting will: K[~ pt(0)] (example 1b)
Epistemic will: ~ K[pt(0)] (example 1a)
so that, in the case of generic will, the notation may suggest “knowledge of p
at any time”, superscript n referring to the inﬁnite number of times to which
the proposition may apply. Generic will was thus seen to be a pre-modal stage
of development and the categories of future-projecting and epistemic will were
hypothesised to have developed out of generic uses, as seen below. The follow-
ing data therefore summarises the ﬁndings of Ziegeler (2006a,b), in order to
reposition the claims made within the debate on the modal status of will.
3 Historical evidence for generic sources of will
The data obtained for Ziegeler’s (2006a,b) study were extracted from a number
of texts in the Old and Middle English portions of the Helsinki Corpus, and were
investigated for possible tokens of generic usage. The main criterion for deter-
mining generic usage was the presence of an indeﬁnite or non-speciﬁc subject,
but generics also included those appearing in the scope of a conditional clause,
since they could also provide a typical environment for the use of generic func-
tions. The sampling included tokens of volitional as well as future functions,
since these overlapped with generics, and only instances with 3rd person sub-
jects were used, since it is in the environments of 3rd person subjects that will
was claimed to have begun to develop future meanings, according to Aijmer
(1985). The data were sub-divided according to subject category and according
to whether they occurred in the scope of a conditional. The following tables are
adapted from those that illustrated the tendencies found in Ziegeler (2006a,b)
(note that the tokens of will in these tables illustrate the presence of lexical
source meanings as well as functional speciﬁcations).
232 Debra Ziegeler
Table 1: Subcategorisation of third-person subject forms of will in the Old English texts in
Ziegeler (2006a,b), according to function. (Scores for non-speciﬁc subjects/objects and scope
of conditionals are proportions of the totals in the left vertical column; scores below 5 are not
shown as percentages)
Function Environment
(N = 55) Non-speciﬁc subject/object Scope of conditional
Volition 12 = 21.8% 6/12 = 50% 12/12 = 100%
Volition/Generic 10 = 18.1% 10/10 = 100% 7/10 = 70%
Generic 18 = 32.7% 13/18 = 72.2% 10/18 = 55.5%
Generic/Future 5 = 9% 2 1
Future 9 = 16.3% 2 9/9 = 100%
Other 1 0 1
From Table 1, it can be seen that the predominance of generic meanings of will,
or generics with overtones of volition or future meanings in Old English was not
trivial, reaching a total of 59.7% of all the uses. This was taken to be a strong
indication that such uses must have formed the original source meanings for
the grammaticalisation of will, since, as we move to Middle English, their fre-
quency decreases relative to future, predictive uses, as shown in the following
table.
Table 2: Subcategorisation of third-person subject forms of will in the Middle English texts in
Ziegeler (2006a,b), according to function. (Scores for non-speciﬁc subjects/objects and scope
of conditionals are proportions of the totals in the left vertical column; scores below 5 are not
shown as percentages)
Function Environment
(N = 34) Non-speciﬁc subject/object Scope of conditional
Volition 2 1 2
Volition/Generic 2 2 2
Generic 11/34 = 32.3% 8/11 = 72.7% 5 /11 = 45.4%
Generic/Future 2 0 0
Future 13/34 = 38.2% 1 4
Other 4 0 1
The Middle English data in Table 2 shows a clear shift (from those in Table 1)
in the frequency of meanings centred around volition and generic meanings,
moving to future functions, with a more unambiguous future sense arising in
many of the ME examples.
Examples of the earlier generic function in Old English included the follow-
ing, with a subject referring to a species or kind (the following examples are all
from Ziegeler 2006a: 102–108):
On the generic argument for the modality of will 233
(12) Hu ne meaht þu gesion þæt ælc wyrt & ælc wudu wile weaxan on þæm
lande selest þe him betst gerist & him gecynde bið & gewunlic. . . ?
‘Can you not see that each plant and each tree will grow best on the land
which suits it best, and is natural and habitual to it. . . ?’
(850–950). Alfred ’s Boethius.
(Ed. Sedgeﬁeld). R 34.91.13.6
A similar example from Old English describes the habitual activities of farm
animals:
(13) Be ðæm is awriten ðæt se hund wille etan ðæt he ær aspaw, & sio sugu hi
wille sylian on hire sole æfterðæm ðe hio aðwægen bið.
‘Therefore it is written that the dog will eat what he formerly vomited, and
the sow will wallow in her mire after being washed.’
(850–950). Alfred’s Cura Pastoralis.
(Ed. Sweet). R 54.419.26
Examples in the same study of generics with overtones of volition included the
following, in which a negative appears:
(14) Sua is cynn ðæt sio halige gesomnung tæle ælces ðara god ðe hit him anum
wile to gode habban, & nyle oðera mid helpan.’
‘In the same way it is proper for the holy assembly to blame the advantages
of those who will appropriate them to themselves alone, and will not help
others with them.’
(850–950) Alfred’s Cura Pastoralis.
(Ed. Sweet). R 5.45.5
An example in which generic senses overlapped with future senses was the
following, with a non-speciﬁc subject, and at the same time appearing in the
complement of a matrix clause of cognition, which gives rise to a time reference
that is later than the time reference in the main clause (wundrian is taken here to
be non-stative in the fact that the subject has control over the act of wondering).
An unambiguously future example, with a speciﬁc subject, appears in Beowulf,
which, incidentally, is the text used by Hopper and Traugott (1993/2003) to illus-
trate a diachronic progression from intention meanings to those of future predic-
tion. The usage appears, nevertheless, in a time reference relative to another in
the discourse:
6 Unless otherwise stated, the glosses for the Old English and Middle English examples are
taken from the Early English Text Society’s parallel translations.
234 Debra Ziegeler
(15) Ic minne can glædne Hroþulf, þæt he þa geogoðe wile arum healdan, gyf
þu ær þonne he, wine Scildinga, worold oﬂætest; wene ic þæt he mid gode
gyldan wille uncran eaferan, gif he þæt eal gemon.
‘I know my festive Hrothulf, that he will piously maintain the youthful if
you earlier than he, o friend of Scyldings, leave the world; I expect that he
will repay with good our oﬀspring, if he remembers all that.’7
(950–1050) Beowulf.
(Ed. Dobbie). R 1180
Middle English examples continued to appear in the discourse in functions in
which they could only mark relative futures, such as the following:
(16) Besechinge also (to) oure liege lord that he wole haue compassion and pyte
vp on vs.
‘Beseeching also to our dear Lord that he will have compassion and pity
upon us.’
(1384–1425). A Book of London English. Petitions.
(Ed. Chambers and Daunt). P. 204.
From such examples, it was concluded in the earlier studies that the fre-
quency of non-speciﬁc subjects or objects in the modal expressions using will
in the Old English and early Middle English data could only illustrate the fact
that the origins of will as a modal verb began in the semi-modalised domains
of generic and habitual aspect, in which will served as one type of marker of
genericity or habituality, rather than with speciﬁc subjects expressing meanings
of intention. In the use of a modal such as will to express habitual activities,
it could be argued that speakers were engaging a preference to emphasise the
irrealis facet of an aspectual category which was vaguely deﬁned in terms of
factuality: as noted above, while the domain assumes the realis evidence of pre-
viously observed events, habituals and generic events may also be considered of
reduced factivity compared with those for which a specﬁc time and place may be
attributable: they refer to events that have no time reference. They function to
illustrate the boundary of factuality with non-factuality, since their factuality
levels are weakened by the absence of referential speciﬁcity to any event which
can be grounded spatio-temporally. Thus they refer to events, as noted in
Ziegeler (2008), but events that have no anchorage in space-time, and therefore
are susceptible to conversion into the irrealis domains of modiﬁed factuality.
While will expresses intention with a speciﬁc subject, with a non-speciﬁc subject
7 The glosses for Beowulf are slightly adapted from those of Thorpe (1889).
On the generic argument for the modality of will 235
it can only refer to a proclivity, a tendency, and it is such a tendency which has
lent itself most readily to reinterpretations of prediction (see also Staetzel 1994/
5). It remains to be determined, then, whether will, insofar as it refers to un-
actualised events (generic or predictive) is the same as a modal form or a tense
form. In the following section, data from newly-developing varieties of English
will be compared with the historical evidence shown above, in order to provide
further support to the modal argument for will.
4 Data from new varieties of English
In more than one previous account of the use of modals in new varieties of
English, it has been observed that there is also a distinct prominence in the fre-
quency of uses of habitual will. As discussed earlier, habituals and generics are
distinguished only by the fact that habituals refer to the temporal distribution of
multiple, non-speciﬁc events, while generics refer to the spatial distribution of a
single event (or state) across non-speciﬁc participants. From a typological point
of view, the use of modal forms to express habitual aspect crosslinguistically is
not unknown: modal verbs that have been cited include those listed by Bybee,
Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994: 154) relating to meanings such as ‘know’, but there
are also examples of habituals derived from sources meaning ‘live’, or ‘see’ (e.g.
Yagara) in a few cases. Heine and Kuteva (2002: 331) list habitual aspect sources
crosslinguistically as derived from lexemes with the meaning of ‘go’, ‘know’,
‘live’, ‘remain’, ‘sit’, and ‘use’, and from other grammatical aspects such as
continuous and iterative, but they provide no data in which sources meaning
‘will’ or ‘want’ are seen to grammaticalise habituals.
On the other hand, many of the cited lexical sources for marking habituals
occur in creoles, indicating perhaps a higher functional need for marking habitual
aspect in new, or contact languages. It is diﬃcult to say why creoles might need
more clearly deﬁned marking for habituals where in other languages they are
often found unmarked; it could be the case that the hybrid realis/irrealis character
of habituals needs to be made more transparent in creoles. Many creole lan-
guages, especially the Atlantic creoles, use instead of a modal form the auxiliary
do to mark habitual aspect (see Holm 1988; Rickford 1980). However, Singler
(1990) refers to Kru, a West African, English-based creole, in which the forms
ken and we, derived from English can and will, have not only irrealis func-
tions but habitual ones as well. If so, there is a parallel with the data from new
varieties of English, which will be illustrated below.
236 Debra Ziegeler
Other studies included one in which the use of past tense was observed
to mark present habituals in Colloquial Singapore English (CSE) (Ziegeler 2012).
The percentage of such uses was quite low (12.5%) for one particular study,
though it was also observed at the same time that 24.8% of the total ﬁnite forms
used to express habitual aspect used the modal verb will. Curiously enough, the
usage also occurred with ﬁrst person subjects, indicating that the subject was
reporting on her own tendencies and habits; such uses may be less signiﬁcant
in other dialects of English.
The relatively high frequency of habitual will was again recorded in a com-
plete study of Singapore English modal verbs by Guerti (2009). She considers
the possibility that the inﬂuence of substrate languages could be attributed to
its frequency; however, a more recent study by Deuber (2009) ﬁnds a similar
high frequency of habitual uses of will and would in Trinidadian English, in a
study mainly using the spoken section of Trinidad and Tabago component of the
International Corpus of English (ICE). Deuber attributes the increased frequency
of usage of habitual will to a need to mark an analogy with the Trinidadian
Creole habitual aspect marker, does. However, this begs the question why use a
modal form when the form does could have been borrowed from the Creole
itself? Clearly, the reasons for will to be used in habitual aspect are not only
related to substrate features, as its use appears in languages as unrelated as
Singaporean English and Kru, a West African creole as well. In spite of this
evidence, the use of habitual will has not been recorded in studies such as
Sand (2005) as an “Angloversal”, though the free vacillation between will and
would, frequently ascribed to the speakers’ needs to express “tentativeness”, or
“politeness”, is listed as such, according to Deuber (2009). The following report
demonstrates the presence of habitual will across more than one contact variety
of English: CSE and Indian English, the latter selected also for the relatively high
presence of habitual will in the dialect.
4.1 The surveys of new English data
The variety most often under investigation in variational studies of Singapore
English is Colloquial Singapore English (CSE), a sub-variety associated mainly
with the contact situation.8 However, in the case of the present data, the feature
of habitual will, while a prevalent feature of CSE, is also found in Singapore
8 Much of the history and description of CSE is carefully catalogued in accounts such as Bao
(2010), Low and Brown (2003) and Gupta (1991, 1994, 1998), so will not be discussed further in
the present study. Some of the data to follow below may also be found in more detail in Ziegeler
(forthcoming).
On the generic argument for the modality of will 237
Standard English (SSE) as well as in many other of the world’s standard varieties
(albeit with relatively lower frequencies, as we shall see below), thus providing
another reason that its frequency cannot therefore be ascribed solely to reasons
of contact. A large part of the data used in the present surveys came from an
internet corpus of Colloquial Singapore English known as the Flowerpod Corpus,9
the remainder of the survey covered the ICE-Singapore corpus, the ICE-India
Corpus and the ICE-GB Corpus. In each of these ICE-corpora, the data surveyed
were restricted to the ﬁles S1A-001 to S1B020, the reason being that these ﬁles
served to represent the most informal spoken usage of all the ICE ﬁles, accord-
ing to Sand’s (2005) break-down. The additional data from the ICE corpora were
required in order to make a controlled comparison with the main data source
in the internet corpus, since internet resources were not available for the other
dialects. The ICE-GB was used as a dialectal control. The results are shown in the
next section.
5 Results
The results of the surveys are presented in Table 3. Total scores include the
forms will, ‘ll (in all persons), and won’t. Wun (CSE won’t) is also searched
in the Flowerpod Corpus (no examples of this form were obtained from the
ICE-Singapore corpus). The data are presented in two functional categories:
habituals and habitual conditionals. The latter category refers to the use of
will and its paradigm in the apodoses of open conditionals, and conditional
equivalents (including unmarked conditionals (juxtaposed clauses), and those
introduced by conjunctions such as when/whenever/otherwise/unless); it was in-
cluded because of the assumptions of Ziegeler (2006a) that it oﬀered an optimum
context for a diachronic functional shift between generic and modal will.
Table 3: Results of the multi-corpora searches for habitual and conditional will, showing
comparisons in percentage frequencies between data from new varieties of English and those
of British English
Corpus Total will-forms Habituals Conditionals Combined totals
Flowerpod 1997 20.93% 17.52% 41.56%
ICE – Singapore 1593 11.67% 10.98% 22.66%
ICE – India 1833 12.22% 11.94% 24.16%
ICE – GB 893 3.13% 11.64% 14.78%
9 The Flowerpod Corpus, mentioned above, was composed during the period 2008–9 at the
National University of Singapore, and was funded under the National University of Singapore
Staﬀ Research Support Scheme. It consisted of more than 700,000 words taken from various
238 Debra Ziegeler
Table 3 illustrates the fact that the number of will-habituals used in the new
varieties is proportionately much larger than in British English – at 20.93%,
nearly 7 times greater in the data from the Flowerpod Corpus which is most
likely due to the nature of the genre of chat-room forums encouraging the elici-
tation of personal habits and proclivities from the subscribers (there is thus a
higher probability of functional need for using habituals in such forums). The
ﬁgures for conditionals are much closer in frequency across the four samples,
with the three ICE-corpora showing no more than 12% of total uses of will
appearing in conditionals, though the Flowerpod Corpus again has a far greater
proportion of usage, at 17.52%. What is interesting is that the use of habitual will
in British English appears to be insigniﬁcant by comparison (only 3.13%), illus-
trating that it has a minor role to play in marking habituals. This also means that
the remainder of uses (mainly predictive) will be much greater in British English
compared with the other dialects. Examples of the data are shown below.
5.1 Singapore English: Flowerpod Corpus
Habituals
(17) but usually I will just eat it straight from the cup . . . don’t really bother to
add some more fruits. [ 25 July 2008]
(18) A little more info. Pure honey will not attract ants. [3 September 2005]
Conditionals
(19) If we sell 20% we will earn almost nothing liao.10 [16 January 2009]
internet forum sites used in Singapore, the principle one being the Flowerpod site (comprising
around 50% of the corpus), additional data was taken from other sites such as Hardwarezone,
and another, Singapore Club. Details on sociolinguistic factors were naturally diﬃcult to obtain,
as the majority of contributors to the forums use pseudonyms to conceal their identities, many
of the topics having a relatively intimate character. The topic interests, however, seemed to pre-
sume a fairly general coverage of ages and cultural backgrounds, and were selected for their
capacity to represent such factors. The style of the language represented was generally infor-
mal, similar to what has been described colloquially as Singlish, though also peppered with
text-messaging abbreviations and various discourse borrowings that are familiar to CSE (see,
e.g. Lim 2007). As such, it represents a middle ground between CSE and SSE.
10 Liao is a discourse marker in CSE, borrowed from Hokkien (Southern Min Chinese). It has a
similar function to lah, in expressing emphasis, denial, or epistemic certainty – see Lim (2007)
for a full account of these particles. It could be argued that (19) is ambiguous between express-
ing habituality and prediction: the same could be said of any (decontextualised) conditional.
The context of habitual conditionals was estimated in Ziegeler (2006a,b) to provide the optimum
semantic environment for will to grammaticalise into a predictive modal.
On the generic argument for the modality of will 239
(20) btw faber-castel looks very good also the wood one especially but got
one feeling the metal part when scratched will be super obvious.11
[4 October 2008]
5.2 ICE Singapore
Habituals
(21) Now dienes will react with certain reagents uhm which are called
dienophile. [ICE- SIN S1B005#81:1:A]
Conditionals
(22) That means whenever you test for blood they will test for HIV also.
[ICE-SIN S1A-022#206:1:A]
5.3 Indian English: ICE India
Habitual and conditional
(23) Everyday I will have rice then curry then uh . . . when I go to sleep I will
have a glass of milk . . . [ICE-IND:S1A-072#214:1:A]
Habitual
(24) Uh you know .. in Karnataka no .. usually people will prefer .. that roti
what we’ll call roti it’s prepared of jowar .. and chapati rarely once in a
week they will do it .. [ICE-IND:S1A-072#115:1:A]
5.4 British English: ICE Great Britain
Habitual
(25) From about the age of one children speak uh a child will speak one or
two words not actually in a sentence or anything like that . . .
[ICE-GB:S1B-003 #47:1:B]
Conditional
(26) Actually it’s not necessarily such a bad thing because the chances are that
if they leave it they’ll never do it. [ICE-GB:S1A-005 #154:1:A]
11 One in got one feeling is a speciﬁc determiner, a typical characteristic of CSE grammar (see,
e.g., Alsagoﬀ and Ho 1998).
240 Debra Ziegeler
6 Discussion
In the historical data, then, as well as in the data from new Englishes, we see a
parallel preponderance of uses of will in generic or habitual aspect functions.
The clustering in the Old English and Middle English data, producing over 32%
of purely generic functions in either time period is naturally not matched
equally with the New English data, though the ﬁgures for the historical data
may not be as reliable as for the New English data as they are much smaller in
total (only 55 tokens in Old English and as few as 34 in the Middle English
texts). The present-day frequencies of the New English data, though not as high
as the diachronic survey had shown, are important for illustrating the relative
distribution of such functions. The frequency of habitual will in the ICE-GB was
negligible compared to the frequencies in the ICE-India and the ICE-Singapore,
in which it occurred more than 3 times as frequently, and in the Flowerpod Corpus,
in which it occurred more than 7 times as frequently, as noted above. The diﬀer-
ence in frequency could be attributed to either (i) the possibility that will is
being replaced or renovated by other ways of expressing its functions in older
varieties of English such as represented in the ICE-GB; the lower total number
of tokens (893) in the ICE-GB could indicate that forms such as be going to may
be taking over many of its functions as a future marker (see, e.g., Nesselhauf
2010); (ii) otherwise, the increased number of tokens in the new varieties as
shown in the present study could be indicating an increased functional load for
the modal, as we see in the higher frequency of habitual uses. It remains to
answer the question why this should be the case.
Given the unusual presence of generic characterising uses in the early devel-
opment of English, it is hypothesised that the higher frequency of habituals in
the New Englishes is visible evidence of a type of replication of the gramma-
ticalisation route of the diachronic development of the modal, but accelerated
within a much shorter time frame, and under diﬀerent communicative conditions.
The diachronic route illustrates a slow and gradual shift from generic sources
to future-projecting meanings; the same route is vaguely recapitulated in the
neo-phylogenetic patterns of distribution in contact varieties. Thus, since such
varieties are New Englishes, as new varieties of a language they should, in all
probability, follow similar developmental pathways to those the old varieties
have shown, with grammaticalisation routes commencing from the same func-
tional source environments. This does not mean that the later stages of develop-
ment of the modal (to express prediction) are not present at all, which would be
impossible in a contact situation, but that the earlier stages of development are
more pronounced statistically than in older varieties.
On the generic argument for the modality of will 241
However, the question remains how these data constitute justiﬁcation for
the modal status of will. In Ziegeler (2006a,b) it was hypothesised from the
historical evidence that intention meanings, which related to speciﬁc subjects,
were not those most frequently associated with the early development of predic-
tion senses in will, but instead volition meanings of a more generalised nature
were associated with prediction meanings, since it was these that allowed infer-
ences of probability and ﬁnally prediction to be derived from them. Thus, there
were no clear examples found in that study in which an area of semantic overlap
between intention and prediction could be seen to provide the “beach-head” for
the advancement of meanings of future time reference. An overlap between
intention and prediction meanings carries additional complications, as a predic-
tion based on an observation of intention involves the speaker’s awareness of
the subject’s intended actions (something that may require an intermediate stage
of communication),12 whereas a prediction based on the observed tendencies
and characteristics of the subject is already objectively oriented within the
speaker’s domain of reference; i.e., the context implies a prediction right from
the start. Thus the following semantic path of grammaticalisation was proposed
in Ziegeler (2006a,b):
(27) VOLITION → PROCLIVITY → PROBABILITY → PREDICTION
According to this path, then, it was time-stable meanings of volition (referring to
likes and dislikes, and general proclivities) that formed the sources of the pre-
diction meanings eventually. Such meanings are still found associated with will
today, as the examples above illustrate. Since they contain inferences of predic-
tion, and at the same time a non-speciﬁc time reference, it was diﬃcult to
ascribe to them a purely tense-marking function: they were seen as genuinely
modal, projecting an irrealis mood over the observations of actions and ten-
dencies of the subject performed at any time, and at all (relevant) times.
As noted above, Salkie argued (2010: 191) that generic functions cannot be
taken as evidence for the modality of will as genericity is a separate category
from modality (he does not provide any alternative suggestions for its categori-
sation). However, according to Krifka et al. (1995: 61) all generics are modal
because they refer to open-ended sets of entities. In the case of habituals, in
which one participant is attributed with a repeated series of events, we might
extend the deﬁnition to refer to open-ended sets of events as well. Open-endedness
(of sets of entities or of events) could be understood as a characteristic of modality,
in that the events it refers to are, by the nature of the indeﬁniteness of the subject
12 Pierre Cotte (personal communication).
242 Debra Ziegeler
or the indeﬁniteness of their occurrence, intrinsically potential and capable of
undeﬁned recurrence, and this is a pragmatic sense derived from the (spatial or
temporal) distributional scope of generics – either over an indeﬁnite range of
subjects or an indeﬁnite range of events, as noted earlier. Salkie’s account
claims that the potentiality implicit in generics is not the same as “past and
present generics”. However, this distinction (between past, present and potential
generics) requires further deﬁnition in order to be taken with any degree of
serious analysis. Although past generics refer to recurrent past events or truth
conditions, which may or may not be still current at the moment of speaking
(and as such they are capable of expressing counterfactual modal notions) it
is diﬃcult to understand how a “present generic” is conceived restrictively so
that its functions are distinguishable from those referrring to any potential,
hence future event. It must be remembered that generics are expressable equally
without modal reinforcement, and in order for a present event to be expressed,
absent of any sense of potentiality, the event referred to must be coinciding pre-
cisely with the moment of speaking, and such coincidences are restricted, in
most grammars, to the use of present simple tense as expressing play-by-play
accounts (as in sports commentaries in the media), or the progressive, which
when used with certain verb types (such as Accomplishments or Achievements),
also implies a certain degree of potentiality as to the outcome of the event it
refers to (what Dowty 1979) referred to as the Imperfective Paradox). Thus a
“present generic” is a virtual reality: only its truth conditions are pertinent to
the present, not its actualisation. There can be no “present generic” that does
not carry the likelihood of conveying modal nuances as any other modal verb.
6.1 Metonymy
The mechanism by which generics interact with modal nuances in the history of
will in Ziegeler (2006a,b) was attributed to the operation of inductive inferences
generalising from the truth of p (at all times, including the future) to p as a
unique future event. Gricean Quantity 2 inferences may be attributed to such
developments, as Traugott (1989) and Traugott and Dasher (2002) have shown
in other cases of modal grammaticalisation. Gricean Quantity 2 inferences can
be analogised with the cognitive mechanism of metonymy, since in the use of
such implicatures, the utterance of a minimal expression stands for a more
informative one of which it is a part. The most familiar metonymies are referen-
tial, and associated with lexical shifts in meaning, such as The ham sandwich
is waiting for his check – an example originally attributed to Nunberg (1978),
but the ﬁeld has expanded considerably in recent years to discuss gramma-
tical metonymies as well (see, e.g. Panther, Thornburg, and Barcelona 2009).
On the generic argument for the modality of will 243
Metonymy is highly prevalent in grammatical usage, and alongside reanalysis,
has been established as a principle contributing factor underlying all gramma-
ticalisation processes by Hopper and Traugott ([1993] 2003), mainly for the fact
that it allows for slow, incremental stages of gradual development to take place
between separate diachronic stages, providing a more plausible explanation for
chronological stages of reanalysis than metaphor. Metonymy has been deﬁned
most recently by Barcelona (2011: 19) as:
. . . an asymmetric mapping of a conceptual domain, the source, onto another domain, the
target. Source and target are in the same overall domain and are linked by a pragmatic
function, so that the target is mentally activated.
It is important to note that the source and target share the same conceptual
domain, meaning that in diachronic cases, the later stages of development of a
grammatical item must be linked conceptually with the earlier stages. Barcelona
(2011: 23) cites Panther and Thornburg’s (2007) discussion of examples in which
the grammatical metonymy ranges over the syntactic predicate, in examples
such as:
(28) The saxophone had to leave early
an example which contains both the referential metonymy of the saxophone
standing for the target reference, the saxophone player, but also the use of a
POTENTIALITY FOR ACTUALITY metonymy, in which the expression of modal obli-
gation, had to, stands for the meaning of actuality, ‘s/he left early’. In earlier
studies, e.g. Panther and Thornburg (1999), the same metonymy had been
referred to in association with the use of periphrastic modals of ability, in both
English and Hungarian, e.g. She was able to solve the problem standing for
the actuality meaning ‘she solved the problem’. Such examples are an indication
of the conventionalisation of inferences associated with the use of modals in
certain contexts, in most cases, the inferences are derived by Gricean Quantity
2 implicatures, as are referential metonymies.
Radden (2009) has extended the research into grammatical metonymy to
the ﬁeld of generic reference, including using metonymies such as GENERIC
FOR POTENTIALITY (2009: 212), to explain the diﬀerences between kind-referring
generics and characterising generics; for example:
(29) Mosquitoes carry malaria.
clearly is a characterising generic, since it cannot refer to all mosquitoes, but
any potential mosquito that may carry malaria. What it does provide though is,
244 Debra Ziegeler
as Carlson (2006) has suggested in deﬁning generics, relevant information rather
than universal truth – there is an implicit premise that the context somehow
demanded the information, for example, on what insect can carry malaria, not
information pertaining to identifying characteristics of all mosquitoes. Note
though, that (29) may only be paraphrased using a modal of potentiality, can:
Mosquitoes can carry malaria; if it were paraphrased using will: Mosquitoes will
carry malaria, the meaning becomes more highly probable, if not quasi-universal.
However, the seemingly universal sense associated with will was noted above
as a conversational implicature as well, derived from the generalisation of
tendency or proclivity meanings.
The present study considers the shift of meaning focus from genericity to
prediction in will to be also described as a type of metonymy, in which the
source meaning (generic reference) can be seen as standing for the target mean-
ing (future reference). In the case of will, then, it may be claimed that statements
like (5) exemplify a type of GENERIC FOR POTENTIALITY metonymy, but it is per-
haps the stronger inferences of modal probability, based on observed tendencies
of repeated occurrences of an event, rather than modal potentiality, based on
possible attributes of the subject, as in (20), which may lead some accounts to
associate the meanings of prediction in will with a tense marker rather than a
modal marker. Hence the metonymy linking generic and predictive will could
be instead described as a GENERIC FOR PROBABILITY metonymy, in the fact that
the expression of a tendency is used as a source for the mapping and activa-
tion of the target meanings of prediction, as examples such as (12) illustrate,
repeated below as (30):
(30) Hu ne meaht þu gesion þæt ælc wyrt & ælc wudu wile weaxan on þæm
lande selest þe him betst gerist & him gecynde bið & gewunlic. . . ?
‘Can you not see that each plant and each tree will grow best on the land
which suits it best, and is natural and habitual to it. . . ?’
(850–950). Alfred’s Boethius.
(Ed. Sedgeﬁeld). R 34.91.13.
In (30), the source meaning of genericity (describing the attributes of plants and
trees) and the target meaning of probability (referring to the speaker’s prediction
of such attributes) onto which it maps are in the same conceptual domain of
prediction, and the target is mentally activated, in accord with Barcelona’s
(2011: 19) deﬁnition above. Examples of the historical data may be readily con-
strued as providing the source contexts for the grammaticalisation of future will,
as the statistics over a diachronic time period indicate the decrease in frequency
of generic uses compared with predictive ones (see Tables 1–2). In the same way,
On the generic argument for the modality of will 245
the GENERIC FOR PROBABILITY metonymy may apply to the New English cases,
as in (23), repeated below as (31):
(31) Everyday [sic.] I will have rice then curry then uh . . . when I go to sleep I
will have a glass of milk . . . [ICE-IND:S1A-072#214:1:A]
The description of the speaker’s daily eating habits in the ﬁrst use of
will, qualiﬁed in the second use by the restriction of a temporal sub-clause,
can readily be reinterpreted as coinciding in the same conceptual domain of
genericity/habituality and probability together, the target domain of probability
activated by the source domain of genericity and reference to frequently-occuring
events: the activation therefore carries the additional meaning that the present
generic uses of will are inferrable as future generics at the same time. The
metonymic analysis suggests that will is unavoidably modal, since probability
(and its weaker sense, potentiality) are modal meanings associated with other
modal verbs. In the face of such evidence, it would be diﬃcult to claim that the
relationship of genericity to probability in the grammaticalisation of will has no
reference to future time. Thus, since probability is a modal meaning referring to
the future, will, if marking future time reference, must still be modal.
7 Conclusions
The present paper has attempted to throw more light on the argument to retain
the modal status of will, previously rejected in studies such as Kissine (2008),
Salkie (2010), as well as Tsangalidis (2010) whose rejection is couched in the
same argument as that of preserving the subjunctive as a category in English.
It was shown that many of the arguments put forward by proponents of the
tense-only club are not completely watertight; for example, Kissine’s rejection
of the universality of will is not suﬃcient a justiﬁcation to reject its generic cate-
gorisation, since will is an example of a characterising generic modal, predicat-
ing over events that are not necessarily exceptionless, and both characterising
statements and kind-denoting generics are classiﬁable as generics (Carlson
2006; Krifka et al. 1995). Salkie’s rejection of generic will as not modal is not
supported by the data or the pragmatic interpretations which may be attributed
to the historical evidence shown above, and which explain the conceptual link
between genericity and potentiality.
The previous study of diachronic development of will (Ziegeler 2006a,b) in
which the generic meanings were seen to provide the source contexts for the
predictive uses of later periods has been reinforced with data from New English
246 Debra Ziegeler
dialects, in which the same statistical prominence of generic uses is explained
as an example of the vague replication of the historic route of grammaticalisa-
tion. Although the New English data does not presume that predictive will has
not yet grammaticalised as it has in older varieties of English, its occurrence is
reduced by comparison to the more established English varieties. The parallel
data therefore provide suﬃcient argument to suggest that generics and habituals
are signiﬁcant in the development of predictive, modal meanings, since generics
have been frequently associated with irrealis-marked categories (e.g. Cristofaro
2004; Dahl 1995), and have been claimed to represent a modal context, accord-
ing to Krifka et al. (1995: 61) due to the nature of their indeﬁnite subjects. The
development of modal will, then, out of generic will, can be construed as a
metonymy similar to the kind proposed by Radden (2009), a GENERIC FOR
PROBABILITY metonymy, in which generic indeﬁniteness gives rise to prediction,
the modal sense entailed in any reference to future time.
Future research into the future of will may require a more detailed com-
parison of the relative frequency of predictive uses versus generic uses in the
New Englishes, in order to verify that the predictive uses are not in a state of
decline relative to the habitual uses: the contact situation would not imply that
predictive uses are not part of the dialect at all (thus the historical situation
cannot be replicated exactly), but at the same time, the direction of the statis-
tical tendencies cannot be established with such a small sampling. Further,
crosslinguistic research might also investigate whether demodalisation may
present a viable consequence in tense categories that may be derived crosslin-
guistically from modal verbs (if will is grammaticalising to become a tense
marker, it certainly has not forsaken its modal meanings as a result). Until such
issues are approached, there remains insuﬃcient evidence for rejecting the
modal status of will in favour of tense on the basis of its behaviour in generic
contexts; generic contexts are seen instead to be those most amenable to the
development of modal senses. However, there still remain adequate theoretical
and typological questions for more intensive scrutiny in the future.
References
Aijmer, Karen. 1985. The semantic development of will. In: J. Fisiak (ed.), Historical Semantics
and Historical Word-Formation, 11–21. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Alsagoﬀ, Lubna and Ho Chee Lick. 1998. The grammar of Singapore English. In: Joseph A.
Foley, Thiru Kandiah, Bao Zhiming, A. F. Gupta, L. Alsagoﬀ, Ho Chee Lick, Lionel Wee, I.
S. Talib and W. Bokhorst-Heng (eds.), English in New Cultural Contexts. Reﬂections from
Singapore, 127–151. Singapore: Oxford University Press.
Bao, Zhiming. 2010. A usage-based approach to substratum transfer: the case of four unpro-
ductive features in Singapore English. Language 86(4): 792–820.
On the generic argument for the modality of will 247
Barcelona, Antonio. 2011. Reviewing the properties and prototype structure of metonymy. In:
Réka Benczes, Antonio Barcelona, and Francisco José Ruiz de Mendoza Ibañez (eds.),
Deﬁning Metonymy in Cognitive Linguistics. Towards a Consensus View, 7–57. (Human
Cognitive Processing series, 28.) Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan. 1988. The diachronic dimension in explanation. In: John A. Hawkins (ed.), Explain-
ing Language Universals, 350–379. Oxford: Blackwell.
Bybee, Joan and William Pagliuca. 1987. The evolution of future meaning. In: Anna G. Ramat,
and Giuliano Bernini (eds.), Papers from the Seventh International Conference on Historical
Linguistics, 527–570. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan, Revere D. Perkins and William Pagliuca. 1991. Back to the future. In: Elisabeth
Closs Traugott and Bernd Heine (eds.), Approaches to Grammaticalization, Volume 2, 17–
58. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan, Revere D. Perkins and William Pagliuca. 1994. The Evolution of Grammar: Tense,
Aspect and Modality in the Languages of the World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Carlson, Gregory. 2006. Generic reference. Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, 2nd ed.
Amsterdam: Elsevier (pre-print version).
Carlson, Gregory N. and Francis J. Pelletier. 1995. The Generic Book. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Coates, Jennifer. 1983. The Semantics of Modal Auxiliaries. London: Croon Helm.
Cohen, Ariel. 1999. Think Generic! Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Comrie, Bernard. 1985. Tense. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cristofaro, Sonia. 2004. Past habituals and irrealis. In: Yuri A. Lander, Vladimir A. Plungian and
Anna Yu Urmanchieva (eds.), Irrealis and Irreality, 256–272. Moscow: Gnosis.
Dahl, Östen. 1995. The marking of the episodic/generic distinction in tense-aspect systems.
In: Gregory Carlson and Francis J. Pelletier. (eds.), The Generic Book, 412–425. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Deterding, David. 2003. Tenses and will/would in a corpus of Singapore English. In: David De-
terding, Adam Brown and Ee Ling Low (eds.), English in Singapore: Research on Grammar,
31–38. Singapore: McGraw Hill.
Deterding, David, Adam Brown and Ee Ling Low (eds.). 2003. English in Singapore: Research on
Grammar. Singapore: McGraw Hill.
Deuber, Dagmar. 2009. Modal verb usage at the interface of English and a related creole: a
corpus-based study of can/could and will/would in Trinidadian English. Journal of English
Linguistics XX(X): 1–38 (online ﬁrst edition).
Dowty, David R. 1979. Word Meaning and Montague Grammar. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Fleischman, Suzanne. 1982. The Future in Thought and Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Foley, Joseph A., Thiru Kandiah, Bao Zhiming, A. F. Gupta, L. Alsagoﬀ, Ho Chee Lick, Lionel Wee,
I. S. Talib and W. Bokhorst-Heng (eds.). 1998. English in New Cultural Contexts. Reﬂections
from Singapore. Singapore: Oxford University Press [Singapore Institute of Management].
Gisborne, Nik. 2007. Dynamic modality. SKASE Journal of Theoretical Linguistics 4: 44–61.
Givón, Talmy. 1989. Mind, Code and Context: Essays in Pragmatics. Hillsdale, NJ.: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Givón, Talmy. 1994. Irrealis and the subjunctive. Studies in Language 18: 265–337.
Goossens, Louis. 1982. On the development of modals and of epistemic function in English. In:
Anders Ahlqvist (ed.), Papers from the 5th International Conference on Historical Linguistics,
74–84. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
248 Debra Ziegeler
Goossens, Louis. 2000. Patterns of meaning extension, “parallel chaining”, subjectiﬁcation,
and modal shifts. In: Antonio Barcelona (ed.), Metaphor and Metonymy at the Crossroads.
A Cognitive Perspective, 149–169. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Guerti, Anissa. 2009. Colloquial Singapore English: A theoretical and corpus-based study. Con-
tribution to the Study of “New Englishes”. Masters thesis, Department of Linguistics and
Literature, University of Antwerp.
Gupta, Anthea Fraser. 1991. Almost a creole: Singapore Colloquial English. California Linguistic
Notes 23: 9–21.
Gupta, Anthea Fraser. 1994. The Step-Tongue. Children’s English in Singapore. Clevedon: Multi-
lingual Matters.
Gupta, Anthea Fraser. 1998. The situation of English in Singapore. In: Joseph A. Foley, Thiru
Kandiah, Bao Zhiming, A. F. Gupta, L. Alsagoﬀ, Ho Chee Lick, Lionel Wee, I. S. Talib and
W. Bokhorst-Heng (eds.), English in New Cultural Contexts. Reﬂections from Singapore,
106–126. Singapore: Oxford University Press.
Heine, Bernd and Tania Kuteva. 2002. World Lexicon of Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Heine, Bernd, Ulrike Claudi and Frederike Hünnemeyer. 1991. Grammaticalization: A Conceptual
Framework. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Holm, John A. 1988. Pidgins and Creoles. Vol 1. Theory and Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Hopper, Paul J. and Elizabeth C. Traugott. 2003 [1993]. Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Huddleston, Rodney. 1995. The case against a future tense in English. Studies in Language 19:
399–446.
The ICE Corpora = The International Corpus of English: http://ice-corpora.net/ice/avail.htm.
Kissine, Mikhail. 2008. Why will is not a modal. Natural Language Semantics 16: 129–155.
Krifka, Manfred, Francis Jeﬀrey Pelletier, Gregory N. Carlson, Alice Meulen, Godehard Link and
Gennaro Cherchia. 1995. Genericity: An introduction. In: Gregory N. Carlson and Francis
J. Pelletier (eds.), The Generic Book, 1–24. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1997. Generics and habituals. In: Angeliki Athanasiadou and René Dirven
(eds.), On Conditionals Again, 191–122. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Larreya, Paul. 1984. Le Possible et le Nécessaire. Modalités et Auxiliaires Modaux en Anglais
Britannique. Poitiers: Nathan Recherche.
Lim, Lisa. 2007. Mergers and acquisitions: on the ages and origins of Singapore English particles.
World Englishes 26: 446–473.
Low, Ee Ling and Adam Brown. 2003. An Introduction to Singapore English. Singapore: McGraw
Hill.
Lyons, John. 1977. Semantics II. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Narrog, Heiko. 2005. On deﬁning modality again. Language Sciences 27: 165–192.
Nesselhauf, Nadja. 2010. The development of future time expressions in Late Modern English:
redistribution of forms or change in discourse. English Language and Linguistics 14(2):
163–186.
Palmer, Frank R. 2001 [1986]. Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Palmer, Frank. 1974. The English Verb. London: Longman. Reprinted as: Palmer, Frank R. 1987.
The English Verb. Harlow: Longman.
Palmer, Frank R. 1990. Modality and the English Modals. London: Longman.
Panther, Klaus-Uwe, Linda Thornburg and Antonio Barcelona (eds.). 2009. Metonymy and Meta-
phor in Grammar. (Human Cognitive Processing series 25.) Amsterdam and Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
On the generic argument for the modality of will 249
Radden, Günter. 2009. Generic reference in English: a metonyic and conceptual blending analysis.
In: Klaus-Uwe Panther, Linda Thornburg and Antonio Barcelona (eds.), Metonymy and
Metaphor in Grammar. (Human Cognitive Processing series 25.), 199–228. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Rickford, John R. 1980. How does doz disappear? In: R. R. Day (ed.), Issues in English Creoles.
Papers from the 1975 Hawaii Conference, 77–96. Heidelberg: Groos.
Salkie, Raphael. 2010. Will: tense or modal or both? English Language and Linguistics 14(2):
187–215.
Sand, Andrea. 2005. Angloversals? Shared morphosyntactic features in contact varieties of
English. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Freiburg.
Singler, John. 1990. The impact of decreolization upon T-M-A: Tenselessness, mood and aspect
in Kru Pidgin English. In: John Victor Singler (ed.), Pidgin and Creole Tense-Mood-Aspect
Systems, 203–230. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Staetzel, Virginie. 1994/5. Contribution à l’étude du WOULD dit fréquentatif. In: Travaux collectifs
du séminaire de Janine Bouscaren. Cahiers de Recherche en Grammaire Anglaise, Tome 1.
Online at: http://fm.chez.com/would1.htm.
Thorpe, B. 1889. The Anglo-Saxon Poems of Beowulf. 3rd ed. London: Reeves and Turner.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs. 1989. On the rise of epistemic meanings in English. Language 65:
31–55.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Richard Dasher. 2002. Regularity in Semantic Change. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Tsangalidis, Anastasios. 2010. Deﬁning future and subjunctive in English. Plenary paper, 4th
International Conference on Modality in English, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 11
September, 2010.
Van der Auwera, Johan and Vladimir Plungian. 1998. Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic Typology
2: 79–124.
Warner, Anthony R. 1993. English Auxiliaries. Structure and History. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Wischer, Ilse. 2006. Will and Shall as markers of modality and/or futurity in Middle English.
Paper presented at the 14th International Conference on English Historical Linguistics,
University of Bergamo, Italy.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2000. Hypothetical Modality. Grammaticalisation in an L2 Dialect. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2004. Where does modality come from?. Plenary paper, 2nd International
Conference on Modality in English, University of Pau, 3 September, 2004.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2006a. Omnitemporal will. Language Sciences 28: 76–119.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2006b. Interfaces with English Aspect. Diachronic and Empirical Studies.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2008. Propositional aspect and the development of modal inferences in English.
In: Werner Abraham, and Elisabeth Leiss (eds.), Modality-Aspect Interfaces – Implications
and Typological Solutions, 43–79. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2010. Semantic determinism and the grammaticalisation of have to in
English: a reassessment. Journal of Historical Pragmatics 11(1): 32–66.
Ziegeler, Debra P. 2012. On the interaction of past tense and potentiality in Singapore Collo-
quial English. Language Sciences 34: 229–251.
Ziegeler, Debra P. (forthcoming). Replica grammaticalisation as recapitulation. The other side of
contact. Diachronica (2014).
250 Debra Ziegeler
III Evidentiality and Modality
Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
REALITY and related concepts:
towards a semantic-pragmatic map
of English adverbs
1 Aims
This article aims to establish the semantic and pragmatic connections between
the English adverbs actually, in fact, truly and really. Especially actually, in
fact and really, but also (to a lesser extent) truly have been studied from the
point of view of their meaning development, using monolingual as well as con-
trastive methodologies. In a few studies some of them have also been com-
pared to each other with regard to their usage in present-day English and with
regard to their historical development. These studies are discussed further in
this article.
Previous research has shown that these adverbs are partially overlapping in
their semantics and pragmatics. The present study focuses precisely on the rela-
tions between the four adverbs as well as between the semantic concepts which
they express. The ultimate goal, which this article takes a ﬁrst modest step
towards, is the construction of semantic and pragmatic maps. It will be shown
that the concepts of ACT, FACT, TRUTH and REALITY, but also of SINCERITY and
ESSENCE are interconnected. The introduction of ESSENCE in the semantic map
brings in the adverb basically for discussion. A pragmatic map aims to display
which pragmatic functions are covered by which forms.
Section 2 discusses the background to this research and its methodology
and formulates speciﬁc research questions. In section 3 the classiﬁcation of the
adverbs in the major grammars of English is given, as well as their relative fre-
quencies in corpora. Section 4 describes the characteristics of the four adverbs.
In section 5 correspondences and divergences between the adverbs are examined
using contrastive data from Dutch and French. Section 6 discusses the connec-
tions between the semantic concepts as expressed by the adverbs. The prag-
matic connections are the subject-matter of section 7. Section 8 takes a closer
look at the concept of ESSENCE as realised by the adverb basically. Conclusions
and suggestions for further research are given in the ﬁnal section 9.
2 Background, research questions and
methodology
2.1 Background and research questions
The question about the relations between the adverbs actually, in fact, really and
truly and the semantic concepts they express was raised by the results of two
types of previous research. First, diachronic comparative research into the pro-
cesses of grammaticalization and (inter)subjectiﬁcation of the English adverbs
actually and in fact and of their French cognates actuellement, en fait/de fait/au
fait demonstrates clear links between “acts”, “facts”, “reality” and “epistemic
commitment to truth” (see Defour et al. 2010a, 2010b; Simon-Vandenbergen
and Willems 2011). Semantic steps from “deeds” and “facts” to the conception
of “what is real” and from there to epistemic commitment to the truth are shown
to be small and predictable ones. These studies conﬁrm research on the subjec-
tiﬁcation which took place in both actually and in fact (Schwenter and Traugott
2000; Traugott and Dasher 2002) and they provide evidence for patterns of
development which go beyond those of individual items in a speciﬁc language.
The ﬁndings raise the question how the concepts of ACT, FACT, TRUTH and
REALITY relate to one another and how developments of lexical items in diﬀerent
languages can be plotted on a map of these semantic domains.
Secondly, synchronic contrastive research has also shown connections. The
study of translation equivalences contrasting English and French has shown
that the most frequent French equivalent of English really is not réellement
(which has the same origin and semantics as English really) but vraiment (which
is a derivation from the adjective vrai, meaning “true”). The word réellement
does occur as a translation correspondence, but much less frequently (Willems
and Demol 2006). Willems and Demol (2006) shows interesting connections
between the concepts of TRUTH and REALITY. Another study, contrasting English,
Swedish and Dutch on the basis of translation equivalences, has demonstrated
overlaps in translations of the adverbs actually, in fact and really (Aijmer and
Simon-Vandenbergen 2004).
Another intriguing ﬁnding is that translation equivalents bring in other
semantic domains, viz. SINCERITY and ESSENCE, which are also connected to
those of ACT, FACT, TRUTH and REALITY. The following translation network is
based on dictionary translations contrasting English and Dutch. It displays the
translations and back-translations of the words in the network, starting from
the English adverbs in fact, really and actually.
254 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Figure 1: Translation network of the adverbs in fact, really, actually, showing some translations
in Dutch and their back-translations. Based on Van Dale (1984, 1986)
Figure 1 shows that when one goes back and forth between the English and
Dutch correspondences there are connections between groups of words which
can be seen as semantic clusters. The words essentially, basically and fundamen-
tally express what is true “in essence”, while the words exactly, just, mainly,
chieﬂy, and particularly are focusing adverbs. This indicates that the concepts of
ESSENCE and FOCUS are also to be placed in the semantic map.
In sum, both diachronic and synchronic research suggest connections between
semantic concepts which deserve further investigation. The speciﬁc research
questions dealt with in this article are the following: (1) Which concepts relate
to one another and in what way? (2) Which semantic areas are covered by which
English adverbs? (3) Which pragmatic functions are covered by which adverbs?
2.2 Methodology
This study is corpus-based. Two types of data have been used: monolingual and
cross-linguistic ones. For the study of the grammatical behaviour and of the
pragmatic functions of the adverbs in present-day English the British National
Corpus (BNC) has been consulted. These data have been added to complement
the ﬁndings in earlier work on the English adverbs only, so that much of the dis-
cussion of the individual adverbs from a monolingual point of view relies on the
rich literature, both synchronic and diachronic. The diachronic data have been
taken from previous research on the electronic historical corpora of English, in
particular the Helsinki Corpus of English Texts (HC), the Corpus of Early English
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 255
Correspondence (CEEC),1 the Corpus of English Dialogues (CD)2 as well as the
Corpus of Late Modern English Extended version (CLMETEV). Examples are given
from these corpora.
The cross-linguistic comparison is used as a heuristic device to gather addi-
tional information about the meaning of the individual English adverbs (see
Johansson 2007: 28–30 on the insights that can be gained from multilingual
corpora research), to discover overlaps in usage between them and to establish
connections between the concepts which are covered by them. The data are
taken from a trilingual translation corpus, the Namur Corpus,3 which consists
of extracts from original comparable texts in English, French and Dutch and
their aligned translations into the other two languages. The data are passages
from debates of the European parliament, from novels and from the Unesco
Courier.
3 Classiﬁcations and frequencies of actually,
in fact, really and truly
In Quirk et al. (1985) and in Biber et al. (1999) the links between the four adverbs
are simply implied by their appearance in the same classes. The grammatical
and semantic description of the adverbs in Quirk et al. (1985) appears to suggest
the greatest closeness between actually and really. They are classiﬁed as “con-
tent disjuncts” which “present a comment on the truth value of what is said,
expressing the extent to which, and the conditions under which, the speaker
believes that what he is saying is true” (1985: 620). More speciﬁcally, they
belong to a subgroup of adverbs which “state the sense in which the speaker
judges what he says to be true or false”. This subgroup contains adverbs which
are said to often refer to “the “reality” or lack of “reality” in what is said” (1985:
621). The adverbs listed here as asserting the reality are actually, really and
factually (the latter with the features <rare, formal>).4 Another subtype of this
1 The HC and CEECS data have been taken from the ICAME (The International Computer
Archive of Modern and Medieval English) CD-ROM.
2 See Culpeper and Kytö (1997, 2000).
3 For a description of the Namur Corpus see http://www.kuleuven-kortrijk.be/~hpauluss/NC/
NC_descr.html.
4 The adverb factually is infrequent: only 50 instances were attested in the BNC. In contrast
with in fact it has not lost its semantic weight and has not developed into a discourse marker.
It will not be considered further in the present study.
256 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
class is formed by the adverbs basically, essentially, fundamentally (see further
section 8). Further, Quirk et al. also mention actually and really as subjuncts:
common emphasizers “which have a reinforcing eﬀect on the truth value of the
clause or part of the clause” (1985: 583).
In contrast, truly is not classiﬁed as a content disjunct but as a style disjunct
of the type “modality” (1985: 615). This means that it gives a comment on the
language itself. In this view, really and actually comment on the truth value of
the proposition, while truly comments on the sincerity of the speaker: “I am
speaking truly”. As such it ﬁts into a paradigm also containing words such as
candidly, honestly, truthfully, conﬁdentially. Simon-Vandenbergen and Taverniers
(forthcoming) discuss the question whether truly is more properly called a con-
junct or a disjunct. The arguments are not repeated here but it is clear that truly
ﬁts into both classes and is best situated somewhere in the overlap area between
the two.
Quirk et al. further note that both really and truly can be used as intensiﬁers.
These are subjuncts which are “broadly concerned with the semantic category
of degree” (1985: 589). The example given by Quirk et al. is He may have really
injured innocent people, “in which the implication is of a high degree of injury as
well as the assertion of certainty” (1985: 583). Many intensifying adjectives are
said to be relatable to such intensifying adverbs, including true: truly (he is a
true scholar: he is truly a scholar) (1985: 430).
Strangely, in fact receives only passing references in Quirk et al. In these it is
mentioned together with indeed as conveying “emphasis” (1985: 883) and with
actually, which in a footnote is given as the meaning of in fact, which is said to
be a phrase which has become ﬁxed and functions as a “closed-class” adverb
(1985: 663, note). Table 1 sums up the classiﬁcation of the four adverbs as given
in Quirk et al. (1985).
Table 1: Classiﬁcation of really, actually, truly, in fact in Quirk et al. (1985)
really actually truly in fact
content disjunct x x ?
style disjunct x
subjunct emphasizer x x ?
intensiﬁer x x
While the distinctions between and the allocation of speciﬁc items to the classes
of disjuncts, subjuncts, emphasizers and intensiﬁers are not always transparent
in Quirk et al., if we bring the diﬀerent references together we obtain a picture in
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 257
which truth and reality are strongly connected, and in which also force and
degree have a place.
In Biber et al. (1999) all four adverbs are put into the same class of “stance
adverbials” of the subtype “actuality and reality” (1999: 854). These are said to
“comment on the status of the proposition as real-life fact” (1999: 854). Further,
really is said to function as an intensiﬁer in medial position with gradable pro-
positions, intensifying a verb or adjective (1999: 858). In contrast, in fact is also
a linking adverbial “with a connective function” (1999: 858). It will be noted that
Biber et al. also distinguish a class of style adverbials in which they mention for
example truthfully and honestly but not truly. Table 2 sums up the classiﬁcation.
Table 2: Classiﬁcation of really, actually, truly, in fact in Biber et al. (1999)
really actually truly in fact
stance adverbials of actuality/reality x x x x
intensiﬁer x
linking adverbial x
It appears that Biber et al. consider the four adverbs closely related as express-
ing the reality of the proposition. As stance adverbials their relative frequencies
of occurrence in various types of corpora are compared. Table 3 presents the
frequencies.
Table 3: Frequencies of really, actually and in fact as stance adverbials in present-day English,
from Biber et al. (1999: 869). In brackets are ambiguous instances of really which could be
interpreted as expressing degree. The frequencies are per 1m words
conversation ﬁction news academic prose
really 1100 (plus 400) 500 100 (plus 100) 100
actually 700 100 100 100
in fact 100 100 100 100
The most striking factor in Table 3 is the much higher frequency of really in
conversation (where it is followed by actually in second position) as well as in
ﬁction, which obviously also contains dialogue. In the more formal genres, on
the other hand, really, actually and in fact are about equally frequent. Note that
no ﬁgures are given for truly. In order to make sense of these frequencies and in
order to include truly for comparison the frequencies were counted in the BNC.
Table 4 gives the results.
258 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Table 4: Frequencies of really, actually, in fact,
truly in the BNC per 1m words
written spoken
really 319 1,700
actually 141 1,200
in fact 147 283
truly 33 17
Table 4 (in contrast with Table 3) presents all uses of really, including its use
as a degree adverb. In spite of this diﬀerence, however, the two Tables provide
complementary information and Table 4 conﬁrms and sharpens the picture
arising from Table 3. The following conclusions can be drawn: (i) really is the
most frequent adverb in both speech and writing; (ii) in speech it is followed
by actually, while in writing actually and in fact are about equally frequent;
(iii) really, actually and in fact are more frequent in speech than in writing, and
the greatest discrepancy is noted in the case of actually, which is 8.5 times as
frequent in speech as in writing (versus 5 times for really and two times for in
fact); (iv) not only is truly infrequent overall, it is less frequent in speech than
in writing.
These ﬁndings suggest that especially actually and really have pragmatic
functions which are typical of spoken interaction. Scheibman (2002: 171) says
this: “In interactive discourse, English-speaking participants are more likely to
explicitly mark their contributions as based in their own viewpoints than in
more formal genres”.
We can therefore hypothesize that actually and really and to a lesser extent
in fact have developed intersubjective meanings which are particularly exploited
in informal dialogue. Truly seems to be almost restricted to formal language.
This may mean that it has not developed such intersubjective meanings which
are useful in the give and take of casual interaction. In section 4 we look at the
meaning developments of the four adverbs.
4 The meanings of actually, in fact, really, truly:
a brief overview
4.1 Actually
The meaning and pragmatic development of the word actually has been dealt
with extensively in the literature. Relevant publications include: Aijmer (2002),
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 259
Aijmer and Simon-Vandenbergen (2004), Clift (2001), Defour et al. (2010a), Oh
(2000), Powell (1992), Simon-Vandenbergen and Willems (2011), Smith and Jucker
(2000), Taglicht (2001), Traugott and Dasher (2002). What follows draws on these
earlier studies.
The earliest instances of actually from the 16th C illustrate a very concrete
sense of reality connected with deeds, a reference to things that have been attested
in deeds or that are considered real in an empirical and objective sense. Example
(1) shows this meaning:
(1) Albeit that our estate in this imperiall Crowne wherof we be actually and
really possessed, as partely may appere by our Proclamacion wherin our
tytle is published, is not ne can be in any wise doubtfull to all suche our
good faithfull subjects as, [. . .] (CEECS, Original letters, illustrative of
English history; [. . .]: 1520–1586) [from Defour et al. 2010a: 177]
In that period actually frequently collocates with really in contexts where
there is explicit reference to what can be proven to be real, in contrast with
what is imagined. Example (2) illustrates this.
(2) And therefore in answer to it, I desire these following particulars may be
considered. First, That this which they say, rather proves what God
should have done according to their fancy, than what he hath really
and actually done. My Text expresly bids Christians to try the Spirits,
which to any man’s sense does imply that they may judge of these matters:
But the Church of Rome says they may not; [. . .] (HC, Tillotson, sermons:
1640–1710) [from Defour et al. 2010a: 182 ].
In present-day English actually can be clause-integrated, as in (3):
(3) Alan [. . .] harboured for months the idea of telling her that he and Pam
knew about Jeremy. But he knew that he never actually would.
(BNC, written)
When clause-internal it often has the following element in its scope, selecting it
in contrast with others. Example (4) demonstrates this focusing function.
(4) So I think possibly a little more thought in the actual, I think the actual
shape of the girl there, the way she’s actually sitting is ﬁne but er it it looks
as if she’s been propped up with, you know, you better put this stool under
your foot to hold that up and put that crutch under your arm to hold that
up It looks as if she’s had these things put there to support her rather than
actually casually sitting on them. (BNC, spoken)
260 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Such focusing function is also present in example (5), which has the additional
implication of scalarity, indicating that the speaker “envisages a scale of properties
with the content of that phrase at the top” and thus implying that “any property
below it on the scale would make the expression too weak” (Taglicht 2001: 2).
(5) Then he took the clipping down again because the photograph made her
look thin. Or perhaps she actually was thin now. (BNC, written)
In example (5) saying that somebody was thin is a stronger statement than that
she merely looked thin (note the possibility of using merely in such contexts), as
it contrasts reality with appearance. The development from a reference to reality
to scalarity is thus a logical and predictable one. We shall come back to this
point.
Actually further functions as a propositional modiﬁer, as in example (6).
(6) Planning to despise the ﬁlm as a poor substitute for classic drama, Comfort
had actually found it touchingly romantic, but oddly disturbing too.
(BNC, written)
In (6) the reality as it turned out to be is contrasted with what was planned. A
further development took actually on the cline towards loss of semantic content
and an increase of pragmatic functions, both textual and interpersonal. Example
(7) illustrates how actually is used to soften the abruptness of the introduction of
a new (sub-)topic.
(7) “She said she’ll tell you a bit more about the Sunday, about the production
we’re gonna put on.” Good. “But I hope it. . . Mum.” What? “Do er. . .aha. . .
mm. . .actually, is this a paracetamol?” Mhm. You got a sore head have
you? (BNC, spoken)
The textual/interpersonal function of actually has also been described as soften-
ing disagreement or introducing a diverging viewpoint, in sum announcing
counter-expectation (Smith and Jucker 2000; Aijmer and Simon-Vandenbergen
2004).
The frequency of actually in informal spoken discourse can be explained
from its development into a discourse marker with various attitudinal meanings,
which has turned into a hedging device conveying weak commitment. At least
with some speakers it has become routinised. This is clear in example (8).
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 261
(8) Yeah I felt I feel a bit sorry for Hannah actually cos I do, I mean actually
she’s alright but if she wa, if she wasn’t Hannah inside, she’s got a bit
dodgy eyes though! Mm. She’s a bit Yeah. Oh I feel really sorry for her
actually cos I’m I know if I had it I’d just feel really awful. (BNC, spoken)
4.2 In fact
The meaning development of in fact has likewise been studied by a number of
scholars, including Defour et al. (2010b), Oh (2000), Powell (1992), Schwenter
and Traugott (2000), Simon-Vandenbergen and Willems (2011), Traugott and
Dasher (2002). The summary below draws on these studies.
The earliest occurrences of the noun fact (< Latin factum) are found in the
16th C. The noun referred to a physical action or deed (“a thing done or
performed” – OED). Defour et al. (2010b) found the earliest occurrence of in
fact in 1571. This is example (9).
(9) [. . .] whether you have done any thing to the Destruction of the Prince’s
Person, if the Lords, upon the Evidence already produc’d, do think the
Matters true in Fact that are already alledg’d against you, surely the
same must needs be constructed a compassing of the Queen’s Death;
(CED, Trial of Thomas Howard Duke of Norfolk: 1571 [publication date
1730]) [Defour et al. 2010b: 451]
The meaning in (9) is ‘in practice’, ‘as shown by factual evidence’. The data then
show a development from reference to what is empirically witnessed to what is
experienced as real. Example (10) illustrates that this epistemic meaning often
occurred in contrastive contexts.
(10) Here the reader may be apt to conclude that the bailiﬀ, instead of being a
friend, was really an enemy to poor Booth; but, in fact, he was not so.
His desire was no more than to accumulate bail-bonds; (Clmetev: Fielding,
H.: Amelia: 1751) [Defour et al. 2010b: 452]
The further step is the development of an additive textual function, express-
ing rhetorical strengthening (‘what’s more’), as shown in (11).
(11) It is New Year’s Eve to-day, and nearly nine months since I came up to
London. Tempus fugit! In fact tempus is fugit-ing most fearfully, consider-
ing that I am twenty-one on Sunday next, you know, and that I haven’t
begun to do anything really. (Clmetev, Caine, H., The Christian: 1897)
[Defour et al. 2010b: 452]
262 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
In present-day English in fact, like actually, can be clause-integrated (example
12), a propositional modiﬁer (example 13) and a discourse marker (example 14).
(12) Humanity, comfortably engaged elsewhere in the business of living, is
absent in fact but everywhere in feeling. [Schwenter and Traugott 2000: 11]
(13) Humanity is in fact absent. [Traugott and Dasher 2002: 157]
(14) Humanity is not often present. In fact, it/humanity is usually absent.
[Traugott and Dasher 2002: 158]
Summing up, there are clear parallels between the developments of actually and
in fact: both started as references to concrete acts, then developed into epistemic
statements of reality and truth, and ﬁnally developed textual and interpersonal
functions, following a cline towards subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation.
There are also diﬀerences: clause-internal actually (but not in fact) is an empha-
sizer, while clause-internal in fact (but not actually) is a circumstantial adverbial
meaning ‘in veriﬁable, visible practice’.
4.3 Really
The earlier studies on really which the account below is based on are Bolinger
(1972), Defour (2012), Lorenz (2002), Paradis (2003), Powell (1992), Stenström
(1986, 2002), Simon-Vandenbergen (1988), Willems and Demol (2006).
Powell (1992) sketches a diachronic development from an “externally situ-
ated” use to increasingly pragmatic and subjective uses. An early referential
use is illustrated in (15).
(15) Þou arte in this sacramente not ﬁgurally but really and bodily (MED, realli
adv. (a): 1450) [from Defour 2012: 86]
From this clause-internal use we note two parallel developments, one
towards greater scope (towards a propositional modiﬁer) and one towards lesser
scope (towards an intensiﬁer). The following situation obtains in present-day
English, according to Paradis (2003): in fact functions at phrase level (example
16), as integrated at clause level (example 17) and as a propositional modiﬁer
(example 18).
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 263
(16) Hugh is apparently really rude about everyone especially when he gets
drunk. (Paradis 2003: 7)
(17) I meant to go to the choir tonight but I really can’t be bothered.
(Paradis 2003: 6)
(18) Really that’s quite good. (Paradis 2003: 5)
It makes sense, though, to add the development into a discourse marker to
this classiﬁcation. Stenström (1986, 2002) notes several pragmatic functions in
interaction, going from textual ones (such as “reopener”) to interpersonal ones
such as softening the proposition. In (19) really is a move in interaction to elicit
conﬁrmation, in (20) it is a softener.
(19) B: . . . and that was you know in times I can remember
A: really
A: good Lord
B: oh yes
A: yes (S.2.3.34) [from Stenström 1986: 160)
(20) which is quite revealing really I think. (S.2.9.333) [from Stenström 1986: 157)
Stenström notes this softening, face-saving and mitigating function especially
in ﬁnal position (1986: 157), in which position it can become “entirely void of
meaning” and reﬂect a “mannerism” (1986: 159). What is interesting is the co-
existence of two seemingly contradictory functions: “Due to semantic bleaching,
really can either reﬂect strong commitment and be used as an intensiﬁer or weak
commitment and be used as a hedge” (Stenström 2002: 306).
The mitigating function is especially found in spoken data, as illustrated in
(21), (22), (23):
(21) We might not be able to use our shapes until tomorrow, which will be a
pity won’t it really? (BNC, spoken)
(22) Well I, I’d be wearing them at weekends so you know just just slouching
around in really, well you know, perhaps cycling yeah. (BNC, spoken)
(23) And er there wasn’t much diﬀerence really. (BNC, spoken)
In the written data there are clear instances of contrastive and counter-expecta-
tion really, as in (24) and (25).
264 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
(24) Men fear rejection, disdain and loneliness only because they have never
experienced them or if they have experienced them, they have felt only the
normal reactions of despair and unhappiness. But if these conditions are
entered into with an open mind the reality is very diﬀerent. A new emotion
of tingling heat and cold intermingled, and this sensation is not despair
but an austere joy. These emotions and conditions then that men fear so
greatly are really very sweet and delightful. (BNC, written)
(25) The so-called ﬁrst published (English) edition is really the second edition.
(BNC, written)
4.4 Truly
In contrast with the other three adverbs, truly has received less attention. The
following are relevant studies: Bolinger (1972), Lenker (2007), Defour (2012),
Simon-Vandenbergen and Taverniers (forthcoming). The following summary draws
heavily on Lenker (2007) for the diachronic account and on Simon-Vandenbergen
and Taverniers (forthcoming) for the synchronic description.
Lenker (2007) sketches the development of truly from a clause-integrated
manner adverb with the meaning ‘faithfully’, ‘loyally’ (example 26) to a clause-
integrated emphasizer (27), an epistemic propositional modiﬁer (28) to a dis-
course marker (29). This is an evolution very similar to that of the other three
adverbs. Here are the examples taken from Lenker (2007).
(26) He was also a lerned man, a clerk, /That Cristes gospel trewely wolde
preche. (Chaucer, GP (1) 480–481) [from Lenker 2007: 91]
(27) . . .and seiden, We camen to the lond, to which thou sentest vs, which
lond treuli ﬂowith with mylk and hony. . . (Wycliﬀ Bible, Numbers XIII.27)
[from Lenker 2007: 92]
(28) For trewli, fader, I love oon. (Gower, Confessio Amantis, 5.2536)
[from Lenker 2007: 92]
(29) And ye shall understonde that looke, by any wey, whan any man shal
chastise another, that he be ware from chidynge or reprevynge. For
trewely, but he be war, he may ful lightly quyken the ﬁr of angre and
of wratthe, which that he sholde quenche. (Chaucer, ParsT, (10) 628)
Understand, in any case, that when a man has to chastise another, he
should beware lest he chide or reproach him. For [Marker], unless he be
wary, he may very easily kindle the ﬁre of anger and wrath, which he
should quench. [from Lenker 2007: 93]
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 265
Simon-Vandenbergen and Taverniers (forthcoming) show how truly behaves in
present-day English on the basis of a sample of 200 instances from the BNC. It
appears that the adverb is frequently used at phrase level, as a premodiﬁer
before adjectives. In this function it occurs before diﬀerent types of adjectives
with the meaning ‘having characteristic x in the proper sense of the term’, ‘having
characteristics which justify the use of the term’. Example (30) illustrates this.
(30) To suggest that delegates from a conference of existing trades would
reﬂect a truly national view, would be misleading. (BNC, spoken)
Truly national means ‘national in the proper sense of the term’ or ‘national in its
prototypical sense’. Such adjectives as national, unique, federal are not gradable.
What truly adds is the focus on the quality in its most “basic” sense, thereby im-
plicitly contrasting its applicability with other cases which are more marginal.
Another class of adjectives frequently modiﬁed by truly consists of words describ-
ing evaluations with extreme force, such as great, magniﬁcent, massive, out-
standing, radical, shameful, signiﬁcant, spectacular, staggering, terrible, wonder-
ful. Again, truly adds that all the conditions for the use of such an extreme term
are fulﬁlled. Thirdly, there are cases – though less frequent – of truly premodify-
ing gradable adjectives, such as good, happy, honest, knowledgeable, modern.
How does premodifying truly compare with really in such cases?
Bolinger (1972: 95) claimed that: “[Truly] has become a virtual intensiﬁer,
but has yet to attain the full status that its synonym real(ly) has in some dialects”.
This is still the case in the BNC sample. While really before gradable quali-
ties can be paraphrased by “very”, truly signiﬁes “in a genuine way”. Both
adverbs are identiﬁers, but only really has become an intensiﬁer. However, it
is clear that the meanings of focus and degree are very close to each other and
that the development from focus to degree in gradable contexts is pragmatically
predictable (See further section 7).
Truly is also used within the clause with limited scope. The sense is the
same, viz ‘in the real sense of the word’, as in example (31).
(31) the roar of the engines that meant their journey had truly begun.
(BNC, written)
In (31) above truly can be replaced by really without any great diﬀerence in
meaning, and the implication of (31) is that until the roar of the engines was
heard their journey had “not really begun” (even though preparations had been
already been made which could in a broader sense be interpreted as part of the
“beginning”).
266 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
In contexts where truly focuses on emotions the implication is not only that
they are “really” felt but also that they are sincere. Compare example (32).
(32) She didn’t apologize, though; there was no point unless you truly
regretted hurting the person your poison was aimed at. (BNC, written)
The original meanings of ‘loyal’, ‘faithful’ and hence ‘sincere’, ‘honest’ are still
part of the semantic make-up of true/truly and distinguish it from real/really.
As a propositional modiﬁer Quirk et al. (1985) classify truly as a style dis-
junct while Biber et al. (1999) see it as a “stance adverbial” (see section 3 above).
As example (33) shows, the distinction between I am speaking the truth and It is
the truth is subtle and often hard to make.
(33) I’m sorry you’re so bitter about it all, but truly it was none of my doing.
(BNC, written)
Nevertheless, there are arguments for considering truly to occupy a position in
between content and style disjuncts, unlike really, actually and in fact. These
arguments are given in Simon-Vandenbergen and Taverniers (forthcoming) and
are not repeated here.
Finally, Lenker (2007) mentions discourse marker truly especially in the
collocation for truly. This use is now archaic. It is illustrated in (34).
(34) For truly I say to you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you
will say to this mountain, move from here to there and it will move.
(Sermon, BNC spoken)
The BNC sample has few cases where truly can be unambiguously identiﬁed as a
discourse marker. Those cases, however, are instances of the collocation really
and truly, as in (35).
(35) But I know I could remember being taken round this school and in the
main hall he’d got a glass fronted cupboard, and he’d got all sorts of
well really and truly they were just pretty pebbles. I don’t think they
were anything much more than that. (BNC, spoken)
Summing up, we ﬁnd parallels between the four adverbs, both in the develop-
mental paths they have covered and in their present-day behaviour. We also
ﬁnd subtle diﬀerences which are partly the result of their core semantic senses,
partly of the stages in the grammaticalization process they have reached. Let us
now take a look at the cross-linguistic data for more insight into the overlaps
and diﬀerences.
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 267
5 Evidence from the translation corpora:
cross-linguistic correspondences in Dutch
and in French
5.1 The prototypical equivalents
Table 5 shows the most frequent Dutch equivalents of each of the four adverbs.
The ﬁgures in bold indicate which Dutch word can be considered the prototypical
equivalent.
Table 5: The most frequent Dutch translation correspondences of actually, in fact, really, and
truly in the Namur corpus
Dutch in fact
Total = 83
actually
Total = 76
really
Total = 100
truly
Total = 22
in feite (‘in fact’) 14 (17%) 8 (10.5%) 4 ―
eigenlijk (‘in essence’) 8 (9.5%) 14 (18.5%) 8 ―
inderdaad (‘indeed’) 7 ― 1 ―
werkelijk (‘really’) ― 6 22 (22%) 10 (45.5%)
echt (‘really’) ― 5 21 (21%) 3
There are two types of questions that are relevant in this context. The ﬁrst is that
of similarities/diﬀerences between the four adverbs as they can be deduced from
shared as well as from non-shared translations. It appears that the closest simi-
larities exist between in fact and actually on the one hand and between really
and truly on the other hand. Nevertheless, there are also overlaps between in
fact, actually and really and between actually, really and truly. The greatest dis-
tance obtains between in fact and truly.
The second question is what the correspondences tell us about the connec-
tions between the semantic concepts denoted by the adverbs in the two lan-
guages. This question comes down to connecting the core senses of the adverbs,
disregarding their pragmatic uses for the purpose. This gives the following realisa-
tions of the semantic concepts (note that only the prototypical equivalents
appearing in Table 5 are considered here, less frequent realisations are given in
brackets where relevant).
FACT: E in fact, D in feite
ACT: E actually, (D daadwerkelijk)
REALITY: E really, D werkelijk, echt
TRUTH: E truly, (D waarlijk, voorwaar)
ESSENCE: D eigenlijk
268 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
The translations in Table 5 show that there are connections between the domains
of ACT and ESSENCE: the prototypical equivalent of actually (ACT) is eigenlijk
(ESSENCE). There are also connections between TRUTH and REALITY: the proto-
typical equivalents of truly (TRUTH) are werkelijk and echt (both REALITY adverbs).
Let us compare these ﬁndings with the French data, presented in Table 6.
Table 6: The most frequent French translation correspondences of actually, in fact, really, and
truly in the Namur corpus
French in fact
Total = 163
actually
Total = 131
really
Total = 194
truly
Total = 19
en fait (‘in fact’) 54 (33%) 27 (20.5%) 10 (5%) –
vraiment (‘truly’) 1 11 (8.5%) 65 (33.5%) 7 (37%)
en réalité (‘in reality’) 10 (6%) 8 (6%) 2 –
eﬀectivement (‘eﬀectively’) 8 (5%) 8 (6%) 3 –
réellement (‘really’) 2 6 (4.5%) 17 (9%) –
en eﬀet (‘indeed’) 12 (7.5%) 1 1 –
véritablement (‘truly’) – 3 7 (3.5%) 2
The situation is partly similar and partly diﬀerent in French as compared with
Dutch. What is similar is that (i) the greatest closeness obtains between in
fact and actually on the one hand (en fait covers both) and between really and
truly on the other hand (vraiment covers both); (ii) there is overlap between in
fact, actually, and really; (iii) the greatest distance is visible between in fact and
truly, which share few equivalents. What is diﬀerent from Dutch is that in fact
and actually have the same prototypical equivalents (en fait) and so do really
and truly (vraiment). The reason for the former is that the French cognate form
of actually, viz. actuellement, only has a temporal sense in present-day French
(see Defour et al. 2010a; Simon-Vandenbergen and Willems 2011). The high fre-
quency of vraiment and corresponding low frequency of réellement as the equi-
valent of really was noted and discussed in Willems and Demol (2006). For a
diachronic account of really and vraiment, see D’Hondt and Defour (2012).
What does this mean for the connections between the semantic domains?
The core senses of the prototypical French equivalents are given below, with
the less frequent adverbs in brackets for comparison:
FACT: E in fact, F en fait
ACT: E actually
REALITY: E really (F réellement)
TRUTH: E truly, F vraiment
ESSENCE: (F à proprement parler, au fond)
SINCERITY: (F sincèrement)
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 269
The prototypical translation equivalents in Table 6 show that there are overlaps
between the semantic domains of ACT and FACT and between REALITY and TRUTH.
When the less frequent equivalents are taken into account in both Dutch
and French, connections are shown to exist between all semantic domains,
though with varying degrees of distance. Let us consider example (36).
(36) But really and truly I must have answers to questions. (Namur,
DBEN:007:001)
Mais vraiment, sincèrement, il nous faut des réponses à nos questions.
(English source)
In (36), even though the collocation really and truly might seem to call for the
equivalent réellement for really, the translator opted for the prototypical one
vraiment (which expresses TRUTH) and contrasts it with sincèrement (SINCERITY)
to render the sense of truly. Example (37) shows that the domain of ESSENCE is
also connected:
(37) The Topman report really involves two votes, namely . . . (Namur,
DVEF:013:001)
Wat betreft het verslag-Topman gaat het eigenlijk om twee stemmingen,
namelijk . . .
En ce qui concerne le rapport Topman, il s’agit à proprement parler de
deux votes, à savoir . . . (Dutch source)
The Dutch adverb eigenlijk, which serves as the source item in (37) and
which denotes ESSENCE is translated by really (REALITY) in English and by à
proprement parler ‘properly speaking’ (ESSENCE) in French.
5.2 The less frequent correspondences
Less frequent correspondences also give an insight into more contextually bound
meanings and pragmatic interpretations of words. The more important of these
infrequent translations are discussed below. They are important because they
are not shared with the other adverbs and thus signal meanings which charac-
terise the adverb in question uniquely.
First, really is sometimes translated by degree words: French très (‘very’),
tout à fait (‘totally’), (pas) trop (‘[not] too much’), parfaitement (‘perfectly’),
super, Dutch heel erg (‘very much’), niet erg (‘not very’), echt (‘really’), zeer
270 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
(‘very’), erg (‘terribly’), helemaal (‘totally’). This type of equivalent does not
occur for the other three adverbs. It has been shown (e.g. Lorenz 2002, Paradis
2003) that really indeed functions as a degree marker before words denoting
gradable concepts. Example (38) illustrates this.
(38) I really do understand, respect and indeed share the concern that the
honourable gentleman has expressed about the widows he refers to.
(Namur, DWEH:021:001)
Je comprends parfaitement, je respecte et je partage vraiment les
préoccupations qu’inspire à l’honorable parlementaire la situation des
veuves de guerre. (English source)
Second, in fact is sometimes translated by markers of elaboration, with the
meanings ‘furthermore’ (addition) and rhetorical strengthening (‘what’s more’).
This development has been described by Schwenter and Traugott (2000). Dutch
equivalents are trouwens (‘besides’), zelfs (‘even’), ja (‘yes’: strengthening), boven-
dien (‘furthermore’). French translations in the data are d’ailleurs (‘besides’),
meme (‘even’). These are not found as correspondences of the other adverbs.
Example (39) illustrates this.
(39) I am surprised – in fact very surprised now – to hear that the Commis-
sion’s own Scientiﬁc and Veterinary Committee made recommendations
on feeding and watering and that the Commission itself has chosen to
ignore the advice of its own committee. (Namur, DBEK:002:001)
Or, quelle n’a pas été ma surprise – ma très grande surprise même –
d’ apprendre que . . .
Third, both actually and really are sometimes translated by markers of counter-
expectation, such as Dutch toch eigenlijk (‘yet in fact’), toch wel (‘yet’, ‘even so’),
uiteindelijk toch (‘nevertheless in the end’); French au contraire (‘on the contrary’),
pourtant (‘yet’), quand meme (‘even so’). See Aijmer and Simon-Vandenbergen
(2004) and Smith and Jucker (2000) on the function of signalling that the follow-
ing utterance is not in line with expectations. Here is an example:
(40) I might add that price cuts resulting from CAP reform should actually
provide the European feeding stuﬀs industry with a potential source of
EC-grown ingredients whose price will be declining. (Namur, DBEI:007:001)
Je me permettrai d’ajouter que la baisse des prix découlant de la réforme
de la PAC devrait, au contraire, garantir à l’industrie européenne de
l’alimentation animale une source potentielle de produits communau-
taires dont le coût chuterait. (English source)
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 271
The functions of boosting the force, elaboration/extension and counter-expecta-
tion are pragmatic functions which the adverbs have acquired to a greater or
lesser degree. Lewis (forthcoming) for example points out that in fact also has a
contrastive or antithetical meaning in some contexts but that it is only elabora-
tive in fact which has been fully lexicalised and has become a discourse marker.
In present-day English conversation elaborative in fact accounts, according to
Lewis, for 72% of all occurrences.
6 Connections between the semantic concepts:
towards a semantic map
The link between reality and truth is formulated by Paradis (2003) in the follow-
ing way: “Epistemic modiﬁers presuppose that there is some kind of evidence on
which an assertion is based. The evidence that is presupposed by really is that of
‘reality’ and by implication ‘truth’” (Paradis 2003: 3). “[T]he content proper of
really is [REALITY] and by implication [TRUTH]” (Paradis 2003: 4).
As Paradis explains, epistemic modality markers express “the speaker’s
judgement of the truth of the proposition based on what is known to be part of
reality” (2003: 4). Most deﬁnitions of epistemic modality link the concepts of
“reality” and “truth”. The following connections are here proposed:
REALITY is the central concept, to be known via evidence. All four adverbs
express that a state of aﬀairs is “real” and not “imagined”. ACTS provide empir-
ical evidence of reality; they are phenomena, in contrast with FACTS which are
mental projections of events and are in that sense metaphenomena, they are
not material but semiotic (see Halliday 2004: 205). TRUTH is an intersubjective
concept: it is dialogic and applies to attestations of reality.
Fetzer (2007), discussing ways in which claims may be accepted or rejected
by the interlocutor, distinguishes between claims which accept or reject the
validity of prior claims on the basis of the “objective world” as true or not true;
on the basis of the “social world” as appropriate or not appropriate; and on the
basis of the “subjective world” as sincere or not sincere. I accept this distinction,
but prefer to replace “objective world” by “intersubjective world” as far as TRUTH
is concerned.
Finally, there is ESSENCE as a related domain. ESSENCE and PROTOTYPICALITY
are linked to REALITY: a real teacher, a true scholar are references to prototypical
instances of the class of teachers and scholars respectively: they have the essen-
tial characteristics, they are teachers/scholars having the indispensable qualities
that make someone a teacher/scholar. This means that when something is
said to be “real”, it means ﬁrstly that it is not imagined, but secondly that it is
272 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
a central member of the class. X is really/truly Y thus means ‘X is centrally/
essentially Y’.
Figure 2 shows the semantic connections and the areas covered by the indi-
vidual adverbs as evidenced by the monolingual corpus data and the most fre-
quent translations.
Figure 2: The English adverbs actually, in fact, really, truly in a semantic map: prototypical
realizations (italics) and areas covered (circled areas)
How should we read this map? REALITY as the central concept is prototypically
expressed by really, of which it is the core sense. The vertical axis has ACT and
FACT, two types of grounding for claims about reality: physical acts and mental
projections. They are prototypically expressed by actually and in fact respec-
tively. On the horizontal axis to the right of REALITY lie TRUTH and SINCERITY,
intersubjective and subjective concepts respectively and prototypically expressed
in English by truly and sincerely respectively. On the horizontal axis to the left we
place ESSENCE as the concept linked to REALITY because the essence of things is
considered its reality: X is not really bad means that “X may appear to be bad
but in essence he/she is not”. It is prototypically expressed by essentially. The
domain of ESSENCE is picked up again in section 8.
The bounded areas reﬂect what is covered by the English adverbs. The most
striking feature is the large amount of overlap between them. Important diﬀer-
ences are the following: First, truly operates on the horizontal axis only, i.e. it
does not express the grounding of the reality claim. Secondly, in fact operates
on the vertical axis only, i.e. it primarily expresses textual coherence rather
than the more subjective stances on reality. Actually is close to in fact but also
expresses that something is “in essence” the case (see the focusing function
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 273
as illustrated in examples (4) and (5) above). Finally, really covers the largest
domain: uses and cross-linguistic equivalents show that it has a wide applicability.
It does, however, not seem to express the subjective concept of sincerity.
7 Pragmatic meaning extensions: towards a
pragmatic map
The link between reality and essence brings into the picture two related gram-
matical categories, viz. FOCUS and FORCE. These are two diﬀerent types of grad-
ing. FOCUS is graduation according to prototypicality: by means of upscaling
or sharpening of the speciﬁcation prototypicality is indicated (real, true), while
by means of downscaling or softening the instance is characterized as having
marginal membership (kind of, sort of ). Thus a genuinely red carpet means a
prototypical red carpet. FORCE is graduation according to degree of intensity
(very vs. a bit) (See Martin and White 2005).
PROTOTYPICALITY, FOCUS and FORCE are linked since sharpening the focus
is close to expressing a high degree of something and vice versa. A real friend is
focus (sharpening, “a prototypical friend”), really hurt (sharpening plus intensi-
fying, “badly hurt”) (Quirk et al. 1985: 583). Development of degree modiﬁers
from emphasizers has been well documented: really happy means both “happy
in the true sense of the word” and “very happy” (see e.g. Lorenz 2002; Paradis
2003). Figure 3 presents the pragmatic developments of the four adverbs in a
pragmatic map. We will ignore basically for the moment, but see section 8 on
this adverb.
Figure 3: The English adverbs actually, in fact, really, truly and basically in a pragmatic map
274 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Figure 3 shows the truth-averring function to be central and the starting point
of further textual and interpersonal meanings of the adverbs. It is shared by
all four adverbs and the only one of truly, which has not undergone the same
pragmaticalization processes as the other three adverbs. On the vertical axis are
textual functions: counter-expectation is particularly expressed by actually and
really, while in fact conveys mainly elaboration (see section 4 above). On the
horizontal axis are interpersonal functions of raising or lowering the FORCE: the
adverb really has developed a boosting function as well as a downtoning func-
tion, while actually has acquired a softening function only (see section 4 above).
8 A closer look at ESSENCE
The semantic concept of ESSENCE has been shown to be connected with that of
REALITY. There were several ﬁndings to point to such a connection. One was the
semantics of truly, which conveys the sense of “in essence”, “properly speaking”,
hence prototypicality. Next, really and actually also have a focusing function in
some uses, conveying that the item in their focus is to be interpreted in its proto-
typical sense (in such instances as I did not actually lie, I just did not tell the whole
truth; Were her exams really good or just acceptable?). Further, evidence from
translation data suggested a connection in that Dutch and French correspond-
ences in some cases had ESSENCE as their core sense (see Figure 1). Figure 1
also shows that more words, which can be grouped as ESSENCE and FOCUS are
brought into the picture. This section takes a closer look at those domains.
The concept of ESSENCE is prototypically expressed in English by three
adverbs which “state the sense in which the speaker judges what he says to be
true or false” (Quirk et al. 1985: 621). These are basically, essentially and funda-
mentally. These adverbs have been dealt with extensively especially from a con-
trastive point of view in Butler (2008a,b,c). Simon-Vandenbergen (in press)
examines their semantics and pragmatics in English making use of insights from
the Namur translation corpus. This section brieﬂy sums up the results of these
studies as far as they are relevant to demonstrating the connections between
REALITY and ESSENCE on the one hand and between ESSENCE and FOCUS on the
other hand.
First, it appears that basically has undergone pragmaticalization to an
extent that fundamentally and essentially have not. It has acquired a textual
function of summing up, especially in collocation with so. This textual extension
can be called elaboration: summative (Halliday 2004). Example (41) is an illus-
tration of this sense.
(41) So basically what I’m saying is, get on the blower and call Jenny this
afternoon from one o’clock. (BNC, spoken)
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 275
Further, basically has developed the pragmatic functions of softening, attenuat-
ing the force of the utterance and has even become a routine marker in casual
spoken language. This pragmatic function brings basically close to really and
actually. It is especially clear in collocations with well and just. Example (42)
illustrates this.
(42) Cos the rest of it is just basically straight across basically you’re just
cutting across.
Oh I see.
Well you well basically all the ma, there’s like three or four main roads
and we just cut straight across it like. (BNC, spoken)
Basically thus has two seemingly opposite functions: “in the most funda-
mental, important respects”, sharpening the focus on the one hand; “by and
large”, “more or less”, approximating and blurring the focus on the other
hand. In that sense it follows the development of really, which likewise boosts
and softens, heightening and lessening the speaker’s commitment depending
on the semantic-pragmatic context.
Dutch and French cross-linguistic equivalents of basically are of three main
types: adverbs expressing ESSENCE, APPROXIMATION and PARTICULARIZATION.
Table 7, which gives the French equivalents, also has one instance of an AMPLIFIER
as an equivalent but this type of translation does not occur in the Dutch transla-
tion sample and it is a less important domain as far as basically is concerned.
Table 7: French correspondences of basically (from Simon-Vandenbergen, in press). One x means
that this correspondence was found, xx means that it occurred more than once in the data
Equivalents basically
ESSENCE
en principe (‘in principle’) x
essentiellement (‘essentially’) xx
pour l’essentiel (‘essentially’) xx
fondamentalement (‘fundamentally’) x
au fond (‘at bottom’) xx
en soi (‘in itself’) x
PARTICULARIZERS
principalement (‘mainly’) xx
surtout (‘especially’) x
APPROXIMATORS
dans l’ensemble (‘in general’) x
environ (‘about’) x
AMPLIFIERS
très (‘very’) x
276 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Figure 4 places basically in the semantic map.
Figure 4: Basically in the semantic map
The place of basically in the pragmatic map is indicated in Figure 3 (see section 7
above). Its pragmatic functions are, apart from the central truth-averring function,
textual (elaboration: summative) and intersubjective (downtoning). The map
shows that the function of boosting is indicated as being expressed by really
only, because it is the only adverb which can be paraphrased by very in gradable
contexts (see section 4.3).
9 Conclusions and suggestions for further
research
The main conclusions of the research presented in this article are to be summed
up as follows. First, it has been shown how the semantic domain of REALITY,
expressed in English by a number of epistemic adverbs which convey the
speaker’s stance in this regard, is connected with a number of other domains,
in particular TRUTH, but also ACT and FACT. Other domains which appear in the
picture are those of ESSENCE and of SINCERITY. Second, pragmatic develop-
ments of the adverbs show that the grammatical categories of FOCUS (degree of
prototypicality) and FORCE (degrees of intensity) are also explicable from the
semantics of REALITY. This has led to the tentative construction of semantic and
pragmatic maps on which the English adverbs are plotted, showing their core
senses, their semantic extensions and their main pragmatic developments.
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 277
The methodology used here was corpus research, making use of mono-
lingual and translation data. The cross-linguistic evidence used was restricted
to Dutch and French, and the translation corpora were fairly small. Veriﬁcation
and elaboration are necessary, both using larger corpora (possibly bringing in
more types of correspondences, possibly corroborating the results with more
quantitative evidence) and more languages. It is not unlikely that more languages
will introduce other semantic domains and pragmatic extensions in the maps.
The connections between the semantic concepts were established on a purely
empirical basis, looking at their expression in three languages. It is necessary
to elaborate the concepts within a theoretical paradigm, preferably a cognitive-
functional one. The status of ‘essence’ and ‘prototypicality’ and their relation to
‘reality’ in particular need theoretical underpinning.
Acknowledgement
The research reported in this article was carried out with the support of the IUAP
grant P6/44 Grammmaticalization and (Inter)Subjectiﬁcation, ﬁnanced by the
Belgian Federal Government.
References
Aijmer, Karin. 2002. English Discourse Particles. Evidence from a Corpus. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Aijmer, Karin and Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen. 2004. A model and a methodology for the
study of pragmatic markers: The semantic ﬁeld of expectation. Journal of Pragmatics 36:
1781–1805.
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Bolinger, Dwight. 1972. Degree Words. The Hague/Paris: Mouton.
Butler, Christopher S. 2008a. “Basically speaking”. A corpus-based analysis of three English
adverbs and their formal equivalents in Spanish. In: María de los Ángeles Gómez González
(ed.), Current Trends in Contrastive Linguistics. Functional and Cognitive Perspectives,
147–176. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Butler, Christopher S. 2008b. The subjectivity of basically in British English – a corpus-based
study. In: Jesús Romero-Trillo (ed.), Pragmatics and Corpus Linguistics, 37–63. Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Butler, Christopher S. 2008c. Three English adverbs and their formal equivalents in Romance
languages. A corpus-based collocational study. Languages in Contrast 8(1): 107–124.
Clift, Rebecca. 2001. Meaning in interaction: the case of actually. Language 77(2): 245–91.
278 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Culpeper, Jonathan and Merja Kytö. 1997. Towards a Corpus of Dialogues, 1550–1750. In: Heinrich
Ramisch and Wynne Kenneth (eds.), Language in Time and Space: Studies in Honour of
Wolfgang Viereck on the Occasion of his 60th Birthday. (Zeitschrift für Dialektologie und
Linguistik (ZDL) – Beihefte 97), 60–73. Stuttgart: Franz Steiner Verlag.
Culpeper, Jonathan and Merja Kytö. 2000. Data in historical pragmatics. Spoken interaction (re)
cast as writing. Journal of Historical Pragmatics 1(2): 175–199.
Defour, Tine. 2012. The pragmaticalization and intensiﬁcation of verily, truly and really: A
corpus-based study on the developments of three truth-identifying adverbs. In: Manfred
Markus, Yoko Iyeiri, Reinhard Heuberger and Emil Chamson (eds.), Middle and Modern
English Corpus Linguistics: A multi-dimensional approach, 75–92. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Defour, Tine, Ulrique D’Hondt, Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen and Dominique Willems. 2010
a. Degrees of pragmaticalization: The divergent histories of actually and actuellement. In:
Peter Lauwers, Gudrun Vanderbauwhede and Stijn Verleyen (eds.), Special Issue Pragmatic
Markers and Pragmaticalization: Lessons from false friends. Languages in Contrast 10(2):
166–193.
Defour, Tine, Ulrique D’Hondt, Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen and Dominique Willems. 2010 b.
In fact, en fait, de fait, au fait: A contrastive study of the synchronic correspondences
and diachronic development of French and English cognates. Neuphilologische Mitteilungen
111(4): 433–463.
D’Hondt, Ulrique and Tine Defour. 2012. At the crossroads of grammaticalization and pragmatica-
lization: A diachronic cross-linguistic case study of vraiment and really. Neuphilologische
Mitteilungen 113(2): 169–190.
Fetzer, Anita. 2007. Challenges in political interviews. An intercultural analysis. In: Anita Fetzer
and Gerda E. Lauerbach (eds.), Political Discourse in the Media, 163–195. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Halliday, M.A.K. 2004 [1985]. An Introduction to Functional Grammar. 3rd edition. Revised by
Christian M.I.M. Matthiessen. London: Arnold.
Johansson, Stig. 2007. Seeing through Multilingual Corpora. On the use of corpora in contrastive
studies. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Lenker, Ursula. 2007. Soƥlice, forsoothe, truly – communicative principles and invited inferences
in the history of truth-intensifying adverbs in English. In: Susan Fitzmaurice and Irma
Taavitsainen (eds.), Methods in Historical Pragmatics, 81–106. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lewis, Diana. Forthcoming. Discourse patterns in the development of discourse markers in
English. Paper presented at the IAUPE conference in Malta, 19–23 July 2010. Forthcoming
in Functions of Language.
Lorenz, Gunter. 2002. Really worthwhile or not really signiﬁcant? A corpus-based approach
to the delexicalization and grammaticalization of intensiﬁers in Modern English. In: Ilse
Wischer and Gabriele Diewald (eds.) New Reﬂections on Grammaticalization, 143–162.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Martin, James. R. and Peter R.R. White. 2005. The Language of Evaluation. Appraisal in English.
Basingstoke/New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Oh, Sun-Young. 2000. Actually and in fact in American English: a data-based analysis. English
Language and Linguistics 4: 243–68.
Paradis, Carita. 2003. Between epistemic modality and degree: the case of really. In: Roberta
Facchinetti, Frank Palmer and Manfred Krug (eds.), Modality in Contemporary English,
197–220. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Towards a semantic-pragmatic map of English adverbs 279
Powell, Mava J. 1992. The systematic development of correlated interpersonal and metalinguistic
uses in stance adverbs. Cognitive Linguistics 3(1): 75–110.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoﬀrey Leech and Jan Svartvik. 1985. A Comprehensive
Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
Scheibman, Joanne. 2002. Point of View and Grammar: Structural Patterns of Subjectivity in
American English Conversation. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schwenter, Scott A. and Elisabeth C. Traugott. 2000. Invoking scalarity: The development of in
fact. Journal of Historical Pragmatics 1(1): 7–25.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie. 1988. What really really means in casual conversations and
in political interviews. Linguistica Antverpiensia 22: 206–225.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie. in press. English adverbs of essence and their equivalents
in Dutch and French. In: K. Aijmer and B. Altenberg (eds.), Recent Trends in Contrastive
Corpus-based Linguistics. Studies in Memory of Stig Johansson. (Series Studies in Corpus
Linguistics.) Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie and Miriam Taverniers. Forthcoming. The adverb truly in
present-day English. In: Gómez González, Ma.A., Ruiz de Mendoza Ibáñez, F., Gonzálvez
García, F. (eds.), Essays on Language Function and Language Form: Functional, Cognitive
and Applied Perspectives. Dedicated to Christopher S. Butler. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie and Dominique Willems. 2011. Crosslinguistic data as evidence
in the grammaticalization debate: The case of discourse markers. In: Liesbeth Degand and
Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen (eds.), Special issue Grammaticalization, Pragmaticaliza-
tion and (Inter)subjectiﬁcation: Methodological Issues in the Study of Discourse Markers.
Linguistics 49(2): 333–364.
Smith, Sara W. and Andreas H. Jucker. 2000. Actually and other markers of an apparent dis-
crepancy between propositional attitudes of conversational partners. In: Gisle Andersen
and Thorstein Fretheim (eds.), Pragmatic Markers and Propositional Attitude, 207–237.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Stenström, Anna-Brita. 1986. What does really really do? Strategies in speech and writing. In:
Gunnel Tottie and Ingegerd Bäcklund (eds.), English in Speech and Writing, 149–163.
Stockholm: Almqvist and Wiksell.
Stenström, Anna-Brita. 2002. Taking another look at really. In: Sybil Scholz, Monika Klages-
Kubitzki, Evelyn Hantson and Ute Römer (eds.), Language: Context and Cognition. Papers
in Honour of Wolf-Dietrich Bald’s 60th Birthday, 302–308. München: Langenscheift-
Longman.
Taglicht, Joseph. 2001. Actually, there’s more to it than meets the eye. English Language and
Linguistics 5(1): 1–16.
Traugott, Elizabeth C. and Richard B. Dasher. 2002. Regularity in Semantic Change. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Van Dale Groot Woordenboek Engels-Nederlands. 1984. Edited by W. Martin and Guy A. J. Tops.
Utrecht/Amsterdam.
Van Dale Groot Woordenboek Nederlands-Engels. 1986. Edited by W. Martin and Guy A. J. Tops.
Utrecht/Amsterdam.
Willems, Dominique and Annemie Demol. 2006. Vraiment and really in contrast. When truth
and reality meet. In: Karin Aijmer and Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen (eds.), Pragmatic
Markers in Contrast, 215–235. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
280 Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen
Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
A cross-linguistic look at the
multifunctionality of the English verb seem
1 Introduction
1.1 The story of seem
The semantics and grammar of the English verb seem has deserved much atten-
tion in the linguistics world during the last century. Traditionally it has always
been regarded as a (semi)copular verb which can be used in a broad range of
patterns. Its semantics is very controversial, and has been the cause of much
polemic among linguists. Among the ﬁrst scholars to observe its multifunctional
nature were Poutsma (1904, 1926), Austin (1962), and Aijmer (1972, 1980). The
basic features discussed are concerned with the meaning of non-factuality, sub-
jective opinion, and epistemic qualiﬁcation of likelihood. Thus, Poutsma (1926: 6)
claims that although the verb seem is included among the copulas, it can “express
a purely adverbial notion, indicating . . . certain attitudes of uncertainty on the
part of the speaker with regard to the predication”. Moreover, the scholar also
stresses the fact that “to seem sometimes approximates to to think” (Poutsma
1904: 128), as in the following example:
(1) I seem to know these ﬁelds again. SWEET (Poutsma 1904: 128)
The epistemic nature of seem is explained in terms of semantic compatibility
with “may be” (Austin 1962: 38), speaker’s non-commitment (Ransom 1986: 12–
13) and tentativeness of judgement (Wierzbicka 1988: 58). Along the same lines,
Dixon (1992: 202) observes that seem can occur with “Judgement TO construc-
tion” when the author (the “Arbiter”) actually lacks evidence to assert factuality
of the statement or description, as in “John seems to be a doctor”. Biber et al.
(1999) develop this point of view by distinguishing a separate class of probability
verbs with the key verb seem when used in the construction with a to-complement
clause. The primary semantic domains that this verb is associated with are
“likelihood” and “personal attitudes” (Biber et al. 1999: 439).
Barron’s (1997) study of so-called “subject-to-subject raising verbs” draws
on the historical development of this type of syntactic structure as triggered
exclusively by meaning shift. She claims that “epistemic modals cognate with
verbs of perception” like seem (English), videri (Latin), görünmek (Turkish),
sembrare (Italian), sembler (French), and can derive an epistemic reading and
express the source of belief when three conditions are met: “(1) the presence of
secondary predication, (2) the suppression of the perceiver argument through
detransitivisation, and (3) cognitive shift from a physical to mental process”.
The ﬁnal generalization that Rooryck’s analysis of raising verbs (seem/sembler,
believe/croire) and control verbs (promettre ‘promise’, menacer ‘threaten’, etc.) in
French and English leads to is that “verbs which ‘lose’ their canonical thematic
structure to function as raising verbs receive a meaning which combines temporal
properties with epistemic modality” (Rooryck 1997: 44). This happens excep-
tionally in the cases of raising when the modal property acquired by the verb
imposes a modal interpretation of a CP complement. This does not hold true
for control verbs because a CP retains the interpretation of a full argument in a
thematic structure, hence there is no movement of the inﬁnitival subject to the
matrix clause (Rooryck 1997: 46).
In Usonienė (2000), an attempt was made to show that diﬀerent meanings
of the English seem-type verbs are very much complement-type-dependent. The
paper suggests making a distinction between directness and indirectness of
experience expressed by the semi-copular seem followed by a phrasal category
(seem + ØP) as opposed to a catenative seem taking a to (be)-complement clause.
The former constructions are regarded as non-modal, subjective, and experiential
(hence evidential), while the latter are modal and express the speaker’s assess-
ment of the propositional content, as in the following examples:
(2) She seemed sound enough physically. (2000: 189)
(3) Some children seem to be thin by heredity. (2000: 199)
Since the publication of the volume edited by Chafe and Nichols (1986)
where evidentiality is interpreted very broadly as “any linguistic expression of
attitudes toward knowledge” (Chafe 1986: 271) seem-type verbs have been pre-
dominantly regarded as evidentials (Chafe 1986; Mithun 1986; Anderson 1986;
Aijmer 1996, 1997; de Haan 2007) as they can indicate either inference or
hearsay, e.g.:
(4) Inductive inference
And she absolutely did not seem to know what was going on.
(Chafe 1986: 267)
(5) Hearsay
It seems that he has been abroad. (Aijmer 1997: 18)
282 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
Although the understanding and interpretation of the category of evidentiality
varies (cf. Aikhenvald 2004, 2006) the key semantic content remains the same:
coding of the speaker’s source of information on the propositional content. It
has been established in the linguistics literature that there are two basic types
of source of evidence: direct and indirect (Anderson 1986; Botne 1997; Willett
1988; Plungian 2001; Boye 2010). What seems to pose an array of problems is
the content and realizations of the evidential value based on indirect evidence,
namely inference. However, inference is also considered to be an epistemic
modality value, which has actually led to the categorial confusion of evidentiality
and epistemic modality. The complex nature of the interrelationship between the
two has been accounted for “in terms of inclusion and overlap” (Cornillie 2009:
47). Cornillie regards evidentiality and epistemic modality as two distinct cate-
gories which have similar subdimensions, these being the reliability of knowledge
(evidentiality) and speaker commitment (epistemic modality). The solution to the
categorial confusion has been based on the following points.
First, according to Squartini (2008: 924–926) and Cornillie (2009) there
are at least three types of inferences: circumstantial, generic and conjectural.
Only conjectures allow for epistemic evaluation, while generic inferential inter-
pretation should be regarded as epistemically indeterminate. Second, Cornillie
(2009: 58–59) introduces a notion of reliability of evidential values, based on
the opposition of the shared and non-shared status of the evidence. The infor-
mation is considered to be most reliable when it is based on “the shared (inter-
subjective)” access to the evidence and when it refers to states of aﬀairs that
have already happened.
In their diachronic study of the English verbs of appearance, Gisborne and
Holmes (2007: 26) claim that the development of evidential meanings preceded
the rise of evaluative meanings. The grammaticalization process that these verbs
have undergone demonstrates an increase in their syntactic complexity triggered
by the acquisition of propositional arguments and semantic bleaching, leading
to the development of evidential senses. Moreover, the authors claim that sub-
jectivization is linked to a speciﬁc construction which “grammaticalizes subjec-
tivity by making the speaker an argument of the verb” (Gisborne and Holmes
2007: 6). Thus, subjective meanings are said to be constructional and can even
be measured. For instance, there is an increase in subjectivity in the following
examples (Gisborne and Holmes 2007: 7) where the last construction in (c) with
an assumed experiencer, i.e. a linguistically unexpressed argument of the verb
is the most subjective as opposed to the third-person-experiencer in (a) and to
the identiﬁed one in (b):
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 283
(6) a. Peter looks drunk to his boss.
b. Peter looks drunk to me.
c. Peter looks drunk.
Lampert and Lampert (2010: 315–316) tend to see the evidential meaning of
seem as purely context-dependent, which allows them to postulate that this verb
should be “re-conceptualized as a peripheral member of evidentiality” (Lampert
and Lampert 2010: 319). Moreover, the construction-type the verb can appear in
is not considered to play any role, which disagrees with the point of view which
sees the syntax-semantics interface as an important factor in the meaning of the
verb (cf. Aijmer 2009: 64; Usonienė 2000: 200).
Lately, with the rise of multilingual corpus linguistics and parallel corpora
much attention has been devoted to the analysis of correspondences of the
verb seem in various languages. It has been claimed that mapping translation
correspondences across languages “helps to throw the characteristics of the
individual languages into relief” (Johansson 2001: 244) as correspondences are
seen as mirror images reﬂecting meaning. Study ﬁndings have revealed that this
method is a reliable and eﬀective tool in disclosing the multifunctional nature of
various pragmatic markers and modal expressions. Corpus-based cross-linguistic
analyses of seem-class verbs in English, Norwegian, Swedish, Dutch, Lithuanian
(Johansson 2001; Usonienė 2006; de Haan 2007; Aijmer 2009) have shown that
there is a signiﬁcantly low percentage of lexical (congruent) correspondence
between them across the languages contrasted. This phenomenon is directly
related to the multifunctionality of seem and its high degree of grammaticaliza-
tion as compared to the seem-class verbs in other European languages. As has
been attested in the studies referred to above, crosslinguistically, linguistic
items with non-propositional meaning (but with a textual or interpersonal one)
have no one-to-one correspondences across languages, which runs in parallel to
the observations made by Baker (1992: 85) who claims that it is diﬃcult to ﬁnd a
grammatical category which can be expressed uniformly and regularly across
languages. Another highly frequent feature observed in contrastive studies is a
high percentage of zero-correspondences, which can be indicative both of mean-
ing bleaching of seem and of the overuse (redundancy) of evidential-epistemic
markers in English.
1.2 Seem cognates
Lexical cognates of the English verb seem in other European languages are also
considered to be multifunctional. We will begin our short overview by referring to
284 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
Bolinger’s (1991) insightful illustration of the search for universals and parallel
developments in various languages by demonstrating the path of development
of the verb parecer ‘seem’ in Spanish. The scholar observes that although the
etymological sources of parecer and seem are quite diﬀerent, “Yet once set on
the path toward the common meaning of that which is evident to the senses,
their developing grammars grow more and more alike” (Bolinger 1991: 27).
Thus, the paper proposes to distinguish between two basic types of parecer
‘seem’ in Spanish: a copular taking noun complements as in Parece hombre
de bien (‘He seems an honest man’) (Bolinger 1991: 31) and an auxiliary in the
constructions with the inﬁnitive as in Juan parece haber perdido el dinero (‘John
seems to have lost the money’) (Bolinger 1991: 38), which runs in parallel to the
English seem both syntactically and semantically.
In their comparative analysis of English and Spanish newspaper discourse,
Marín-Arrese, Hidalgo-Downing, and Molina-Plaza (2004: 133) ﬁnd parecer ‘seem’
to be an “overwhelmingly” frequent marker of evidentiality. When dealing with
the evidential meanings of Spanish parecer ‘seem’, Cornillie (2007) claims that
the two constructions in which the verb occurs (parecer + inﬁnitive and parece
que) have two diﬀerent types of evidential reading. Parecer + inﬁnitive is infer-
ential and subjective, while parece que can indicate two possible modes of
knowing, namely hearsay or “inference from diﬀerent types of evidence” which
is intersubjective (Cornillie 2009: 53). Although the scholar admits the presence
of a “speciﬁc degree of epistemic speaker commitment”, he makes a clear-cut
distinction between the reliability of evidential values and the evaluation of
likelihood which expresses an epistemic modal dimension.
The multifaceted nature of the German verb scheinen ‘seem’ has been analyzed
by de Haan (2007) and Diewald, Kresic and Smirnova (2009). Both papers can be
seen as providing further evidence in support of the claim that the grammatical-
ization process of scheinen triggers subjectiﬁcation, resulting in an inferential
evidential meaning. According to Diewald, Kresic and Smirnova (2009: 202) evi-
dential constructions like “scheinen and zu and inﬁnitive” are “grammatical
markers that (actively) modify propositions due to their grammatical – inferential
evidential – function”. The ﬁnal stage in the development of scheinen and its full
subjectiﬁcation (without “the slightest syntactic connection between the subject
and the utterance”) is achieved when it is used parenthetically, as in the follow-
ing example from de Haan (2007: 142):
(7) Er ist, scheints, nicht zuhause.
‘He is, apparently, not at home.’
Dutch cognates blijken ‘appear’ and lijken ‘seem’ are regarded as evidential
predicates by Nuyts and Vonk (1999). In their study on French lexical evidential
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 285
markers, Dendale and Van Bogaert (2007: 78–79) regard the impersonal con-
structions with sembler ‘seem’ as “indirect evidence evidentials” expressing the
speaker’s personal hypothesis based on reasoning. However, when used in
personal copular constructions it “has a clear modal component expressing a
certain degree of uncertainty, without being an evidential marker” which is
semantically comparable to je crois que ‘I think that’:
(8) Ce vin semble bon.
‘That wine seems good.’ (Dendale and Van Bogaert 2007: 78–79)
The study also demonstrates that “often a mainly evidential marker has
modal overtones” (Dendale and Van Bogaert 2007: 85), a fact which has been
observed in grammatical evidentiality as well.
Squartini’s (2009) semantic interpretation of the Italian constructions with
the verb sembrare ‘seem’ is in line with the above observations made on the
functions and meaning of seem-type verbs in other languages. The construction
that combines epistemic and evidential qualiﬁcation is copulative use of the
verb as in “Carlo sembra alto” ‘Carlo seems tall’ (Squartini 2009: 219). Reportive-
inferential reading dominates in “biclausal” constructions like “Sembra che
Carlo sia alto” ‘It seems that C. is tall’ (Squartini 2009: 219) which correspond
to the impersonal seem-that S constructions already discussed in this paper. A
short excursion into the area of seem-type verbs in European languages, and
their acquisition of a reportive function can be found in Wiemer (2010: 105,
115). The scholar relates the chances of acquiring this meaning basically to their
parenthetical use.
Thus, the current situation regarding the status of seem-type verbs is a
classic example of their multifaceted nature, exhibiting semantic features which
are characteristic of evidentiality and epistemic modality. Whatever the explana-
tion oﬀered, be it in terms of “inclusion and overlap” (Cornillie 2009: 47), the
presence of some similar/common subdimensions or meaning extension, the
fact is that it is very diﬃcult (sometimes impossible) to disentangle the closely
interrelated meaning bundles of seeming verbs in the languages overviewed.
As a rule, inference based on indirect evidence is not considered to be a reliable
source of information, just as predictions based on conjectural inference cannot
be regarded as factual or true propositions.
The constructions and their frequency of use is not the same in the lan-
guages that have seem-type verbs. As Usonienė (2003) shows, the Lithuanian
cognate atrodyti ‘seem’ does exhibit many of the most prototypical features of
seem-type verbs. One cannot speak of the auxiliarization of atrodyti ‘seem’ in
Lithuanian because this verb does not occur in constructions with inﬁnitive
286 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
forms. However, this gap seems to be compensated by the parenthetical func-
tioning of the impersonal (third person) form atrodo ‘seem’PRS.3. Its scope is
always over the clause, and it is independent of the position of atrodo ‘it seems’
in the sentence. The Lithuanian seem-verb atrodyti has evolved from the verb
rodyti ‘show’, thus the origin is diﬀerent from that of the Romance languages
although semantically it has the same domain as in German. The scope of
synchronic variation of the Lithuanian verb atrodyti ‘seem’ ranging from its use
as a full lexical to an evidential-epistemic marker can be shown in the following
examples:
(9) a. lexical verb in personal constructions followed by an AdvP
Ar aš padoriai atrodau?
Q I decently look.PRS.1SG
‘Do I look respectable?’
b. copular verb followed by an (as if ) NP/AP/PP
Mes atrodom (kaip) tikri kvailiai.
we look.PRS.1PL (like) real.NOM fools.NOM
‘We seem/look (like) real fools.’
c. impersonal constructions with a that-clause (a CTP)
Atrodo, kad lis.
seem.PRS.3 COMP rain.FUT.3
‘It seems that it is going to rain.’
d. parenthetical use
Visi su skėčiais. Lyja, atrodo.
all with umbrellas.INS rain.PRS.3 seem.PRS.3
‘Everybody has got an umbrella. It seems to be raining/It’s raining,
it seems.’
Rytoj, atrodo, lis pagal prognozę.
tomorrow seem.PRS.3 rain.FUT.3 according to forecast.ACC
‘Tomorrow, it seems, it may rain/it seems like rain according to
the forecast.’
The two parenthetical uses of atrodo ‘it seems’ in (9d) diﬀer in their evidential-
epistemic interpretation. The ﬁrst one is circumstantial inferential based on
observational data, while the second one is reportive and is based on hearsay.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 287
What deserves special attention is the position of the parenthetical in the sen-
tence. As Lithuanian is a language with a relatively free word order, the position
does not play a crucial role in the so-called zero-complementation cases of the
initially used atrodo ‘it seems’. Although Dixon (1992: 211) was very categorical
regarding the initial position of a main clause, he did not exclude the chance of
sentence-initial parenthetical use either, which is considered very much mean-
ing and sentence prosody-dependent (also cf. Kaltenböck 2007; Boye and Harder
2007). Thus, the present study will not deal with diﬀerences in meaning and func-
tion as dependent upon the position of the seem-parenthetical in the sentence.
Both cases of parenthetical use in (9d) are evidential with an epistemic over-
tone because the speaker is not utterly certain regarding the factuality of the
situation described. In both cases, atrodo ‘it seems’ can be also considered to
be used as a hedge, the function of which is to avoid full responsibility for
what is being asserted. Certainly, open umbrellas are a sign of rain as well as
weather forecast data; however all of us know how changeable the weather is
and thus one cannot be utterly sure. In some cases of use, the Lithuanian atrodo
‘it seems’ can have a meaning nearly identical to the verb manyti ‘think-that’ for
instance:
(10) Nemanau, kad jie laimės. O kaip tau atrodo?
NEG.think.PRS.1SG COMP they win.FUT.3 and how you.SG.DAT seem.PRS.3
‘(I) don’t think that they will win. And how does it seem to you?/
And what do you think?’
The given type of atrodo ‘it seems’ can function as an epistemic marker and have
a tone of uncertainty,
(11) Kas dar ateis? – Tiksliai neatsimenu, Jonas, atrodo.
‘Who else will come? – I can’t remember exactly, John, it seems.’
Similarly, in English, the reading of seem is epistemic in the following example
and the speaker chooses it to make his/her statement more tentative; it func-
tions as a hedging device here:
(12) His mother was big in his life and she’s, well, she’s not long to live, it seems.
It’s sad, actually, she’s a very respected woman in the village. (BNC)
The English verb seem is a multifunctional or a broad spectrum “epistential”
verb, to use Faller’s term (2002: 87). Its Lithuanian cognate atrodyti ‘seem’ is
also multifunctional; however it is not found in the same type of constructions
288 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
as its English correspondence. There are no constructions with the inﬁnitive in
Lithuanian, which is the most frequent construction of seem in English. Being
polysemous these verbs are members of various other semantic domains, there-
fore “it does not mean that the constructions and their functions are the same
in all languages which have verbs of the seem-class” (Aijmer 2007: 64). The
purpose of the analysis is to see how the multifunctionality of seem is mirrored
in the Lithuanian correspondences in translations from the English original. This
analysis might also cast light on how the two domains of evidential and epistemic
meanings match by looking at the correspondences in LT translations.
2 Material and method
The data for the analysis have been collected from two corpora. The ﬁrst one is a
self-compiled bidirectional parallel corpus – ParaCorpE-LT-E the design of which
follows the English-Norwegian Parallel Corpus (ENPC) model (Johansson and
Hoﬂand 1994; Johansson 2007). It contains two sub-corpora: a) the ParaCorpE-LT
compiled from original English ﬁction texts and their translations into Lithua-
nian; and b) the ParaCorpLT-E compiled from original Lithuanian ﬁction texts
and their translations into English. With a few exceptions, the texts included in
the corpus were written, translated, and published in the period of 1980–2006.
The size of the corpus is 1, 572, 498 words (see Table 1).
Table 1: Size of the ParaCorpE-LT-E
ParaCorpE-LT-E Original Translation Total
ParaCorp E-LT 486, 871 386, 640 873, 511
ParaCorp LT-E 296, 759 402, 228 698, 987
The main features and a detailed description of the ParaCorpE-LT-E can be
found in Usonienė and Šolienė (2010). Only the ﬁrst sub-corpus containing the
English originals and their translations into Lithuanian was used for the purpose
of this study. This sub-corpus includes full texts of 6 novels and 2 short stories,
translated by 8 translators (5 women and 3 men).
The second corpus, compiled for the cross-linguistic pilot study, is a special
parallel one-direction corpus of the ﬁrst book in the Harry Potter series by J.K.
Rowling, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone (1998), and its translations from
English into Lithuanian (LT), Polish (PL) and Russian (RU). This corpus is further
referred to as the HP corpus. The four language data contrasted belong to three
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 289
language groups: Germanic, Baltic and Slavic languages. The size of the corpus
is 269, 027 words (See Table 2).
Table 2: Size of the HP corpus
the HP corpus Number of words
English original 77, 796
Lithuanian translation 54, 792
Polish translation 69, 494
Russian translation 66, 945
The search for the data was automatic, but the analysis of the data collected
was carried out manually. All sentences with aﬃrmative and negative occurrences
of forms of the verb seem (except seemingly and seeming) as well as their trans-
lations to Lithuanian were analyzed and translation correspondences of seem
identiﬁed.
Only one case of seem was discarded as part of the sentence was missing in
translation:
(13) ENorig A very faint whimpering or squeaking, which seemed unconscious,
came out of him.
LTtrans Nuo tos pusės Ø sklido silpnas inkštimas ar spiegimas.
Literal1: ‘A very faint whimpering or squeaking Ø came from that
direction.’
The main methodological approach of this study is contrastive analysis.
Issues of multifunctionality are increasingly addressed in the studies of dis-
course markers, modal auxiliaries and modal particles employing contrastive
analysis based on translation corpora (Aijmer 2001, 2007; Johansson 2001; van
der Auwera, Schalley and Nuyts 2005; Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer 2002–
2003). Even though Johansson (2007: 9–10) notes a number of problems related
to translation corpora, source language inﬂuence, a restricted range of trans-
lated texts, translator idiosyncratic choices and mistakes being the ones typically
mentioned, the signiﬁcance of translation corpora in decoding the meaning of
certain linguistic items is also emphasized by Noël, who observes that “the texts
produced by translators can be treated as a collection of informants’ judge-
ments” (Noël 2002: 158).
1 If a literal translation is not provided it means that it is semantically and formally analogous
to the provided translation variant.
290 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
3 Findings
The ﬁrst part of the analysis (section 3.1.) will discuss the correspondences of
the English verb seem in the ﬁction ParaCorpE-LT corpus, while the second part
(section 3.2.) will touch upon seem correspondences in the multilingual HP
corpus. Section 3.3. will discuss zero-translation cases in both corpora, and
section 3.4. will focus on seem and its correspondences functioning as hedges.
3.1 Seem correspondences in the ParaCorpE-LT
There were 606 cases of seem found in the ParaCorpE-LT. The normalized fre-
quency of seem per 1000 words is 1.2 occurrences, which actually corresponds
to the frequency distribution results obtained by Johansson who found in his
data that seem was used almost once per 1000 words (Johansson 2001: 221) and
proves that seem is generally a frequent word.
Just as in the English-Swedish and English-Norwegian translations, seem
has a wide range of correspondences in the Lithuanian translated texts. The
overview of seem correspondences, both congruent and non-congruent as well
as zero correspondence cases, together with their raw frequencies is presented
in Table 3.
All of the translation correspondences listed in Table 3 reﬂect the meaning
of the English verb seem to a larger or smaller extent. Excluding zero cases in
translation, there were 37 diﬀerent correspondences of seem, out of which 16
were used only once. This is not an unusual result as there is a tendency for
modal items to take a broad range of correspondences, some of which are not
frequent. For example, Aijmer’s research into modal adverbs in English-Swedish
translations has shown that out of 19 diﬀerent correspondences to surely, 13
occurred only once, and in the case of 35 diﬀerent correspondences to certainly,
20 were used only once (Aijmer 2001). Also, the results of the English-Lithuanian
translations of seem are very much in line with Aijmer’s ﬁndings for seem cor-
respondences from an English-Swedish perspective. The scholar identiﬁed 36
diﬀerent seem correspondences in Swedish, 18 of which were used just once
(Aijmer 2009). As noted by Aijmer and Simon-Vandenbergen in their study of
Swedish and Dutch correspondences to well, modal and discourse particles are
translated in many diﬀerent ways and this fact “ﬁnds an obvious explanation in
the polysemic nature and multifunctionality of such words” (Aijmer and Simon-
Vandenbergen 2003: 1135). The same tendency is illustrated by seem translations.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 291
Table 3: Overall seem correspondences in the Lithuanian translation
Seem correspondence Raw
frequencies
atrodyti, (kad) ‘seem’ non-copular 156
Ø 148
atrodyti ‘seem’ copular 102
regis ‘seemingly’ 49
tarsi ‘as if/as though’ 34
pasirodyti ‘appear’ copular 14
rodos ‘it seems’ 13
pasirodyti, (kad) ‘appear’ non-copular 12
tartum/tarytum ‘as if/as though’ 10
matyt ‘evidently’ 9
lyg (ir) ‘as if’ 8
(nu)skambėti ‘sound’ 5
manyti ‘think’ 5
rodytis ‘seem’ 4
panašu/nepanašu ‘looks like/doesn’t look like’ 3
berods ‘probably’ 2
galima (pa)sakyti ‘it can be said’ 2
pajusti ‘feel’ 2
regėti(s) ‘see/behold’ 2
sakytum ‘you’d say’ 2
ko gera/ko gero ‘possibly’ 2
gali būti ‘can/may be’ 2
gal ‘perhaps’ 2
paaiškėti ‘turn out’ 2
numanyti ‘infer’ 1
apskritai ‘generally’ 1
atrodantis ‘seeming’ (agreeing active participle) 1
bemaž ‘nearly’ 1
bene ‘possibly’ 1
padaryti įspūdį ‘make an impression’ 1
pasivaidenti ‘see things’ 1
susijusi ‘related’ 1
turbūt ‘probably’ 1
pagalvoti ‘think’ 1
būtų ‘would be’ 1
mano manymu ‘in my opinion’ 1
įsivaizduoti ‘imagine’ 1
mažiausiai ‘at least’ 1
nepanašus ‘not alike/similar’ 1
tikriausiai ‘most probably’ 1
292 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
All the translation correspondences into Lithuanian where the cognate
(at)rodyti(s) ‘seem’ was used were considered as congruent (lexical) correspond-
ences and are illustrated by examples (14)–(17):
(14) copular use
ENorig Still Fache seemed preoccupied.
LTtrans Tačiau Fasas atrodė sunerimęs.
(15) impersonal construction with a that-clause (a CTP)
ENorig His heart seemed to be frozen.
LTtrans Atrodė, kad širdis suledėjusi.
Literal: ‘It seemed that his heart was frozen.’
(16) parenthetical use
ENorig But rich and beautiful lives seem to be a discontinued line.
Ttrans Bet sodrus ir gražus gyvenimas, atrodo, mūsų laikais nebegaminamas.
Literal: ‘But rich and beautiful lives, it seems, are a discontinued line.’
(17) parenthetical use
ENorig It was also very hard to remember where anything was, because it all
seemed to move around a lot.
LTtrans Be to, negalėjai įsiminti, kur kas yra, nes viskas, rodos, judėjo ir
keitėsi.
Literal: ‘Besides, it was hard to remember where anything was, as
everything, it seems, was moving and changing.’
According to Johansson, a translation correspondence can be considered
congruent when it has “a lexical verb corresponding to seem and the same over-
all structure as the seem construction” (Johansson 2001: 223). Since Lithuanian
and English are structurally very diﬀerent languages, there are not many cases
of equivalence in terms of both parameters in Lithuanian translations. Therefore,
all uses of the semantic cognates of seem, regardless of the construction they
occurred in, are considered as congruent correspondences here. Several forms
of congruent correspondences were identiﬁed in the analyzed translations: non-
copular atrodyti, (kad) ‘seem (that)’, copular atrodyti ‘seem’, parenthetical rodos
‘it seems’, non-copular rodytis, (kad) ‘seem (that)’, agreeing participle atrodantis
‘seeming’. As can be seen from Table 3, they constitute only 46% of all the trans-
lations of seem in the corpus.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 293
Cases when translators chose a functionally or semantically close alternative
to atrodyti ‘seem’ are considered non-congruent and constitute 30% of the corre-
spondences of seem. In the ParaCorpE-LT very typical non-congruent correspond-
ences of seem are modal words/particles. It should be noted that in Lithuanian
grammars and dictionaries certain particles, modal words, adverbs, various word
forms and word groups which express the speaker’s evaluative attitude are
assigned to diﬀerent word classes. For example, the most frequent non-congruent
seem correspondence in Lithuanian regis ‘seemingly’ is considered a reﬂexive
verb form in the online Dictionary of the Lithuanian Languagee (the DLLe), but a
modal word in the online Modern Lithuanian Dictionarye (the MLDe) even though
modal words do not form a separate word class in Lithuanian linguistics. Simi-
larly, gal ‘perhaps’ and turbūt ‘probably’ are deﬁned as modal words in the
DLLe, but are ascribed to particles in the MLDe and the Lithuanian Grammar
(Ambrazas 1997), matyt ‘evidently’ is described as a modal word in the DLLe, but
the MLDe refers to matyt ‘evidently’ as a parenthetical word, which is not a
morphological but a syntactic category. Most of the modal items occurring as
seem correspondences take scope over the whole clause, thus functioning as
sentence adverbials; therefore, for the sake of terminological convenience they
will all be further referred to as adverbials.
In (18), a non-congruent correspondence of seem in Lithuanian is an adver-
bial matyt ‘evidently’:
(18) ENorig The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because at these words
a knight, a bishop, and a castle turned their backs on the white pieces and
walked oﬀ the board <. . .>.
LTtrans Figūros, matyt, klausėsi, nes sulig tais žodžiais žirgas, rikis ir bokštas
atsuko baltiesiems nugaras ir nulipo nuo lentos <. . .>.
Literal: ‘The chessmen evidently have been listening, because at these
words a knight, a bishop, and a castle turned their backs on the white
pieces and walked oﬀ the board <. . .>.’
Non-congruent correspondences of seem would also occasionally be mental
and perception verbs and the perfective aspectual pa-si-rodyti (PFV-REFL-show.
INF; ‘appear’) which also occurs in the same variety of constructions as atrodyti/
rodytis ‘seem’ as illustrated in Lithuanian translations (19)–(20):
(19) parenthetical use
ENorig It seemed the captain was more motivated than Sophie had
anticipated.
LTtrans Pasirodo, kapitonas turi daugiau motyvų, nei buvo galima pamanyti.
294 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
(20) impersonal constructions with a that-clause (a CTP)
ENorig It seemed to Clive that the main business of the police was to deal
with the numerous and unpredictable consequences of poverty <. . .>.
LTtrans Klaivui pasirodė, jog2 pagrindinė policijos veiklos sritis – kovoti su
daugybe neprognozuojamų skurdo pasekmių <. . .>.
Literal: ‘It appeared to Clive that the main business of the police was to
deal with the numerous and unpredictable consequences of poverty <. . .>.’
As has already been mentioned, the semantic cognate of the verb seem
in Lithuanian is atrodyti ‘seem’ whereas pasirodyti is the semantic cognate of
the English verb appear. However, just as both seem and appear are very close
semantically, their cognates in Lithuanian also share certain semantic features.
In some contexts pasirodyti ‘appear’ becomes nearly identical to atrodyti ‘seem’
in its evidential-epistemic meaning, the only diﬀerence being perfective aspec-
tuality. This meaning of pasirodyti ‘appear’ is illustrated in (20). In other con-
texts pasirodyti ‘appear’ does not necessarily have the epistemic reading of prob-
ability and its meaning becomes closer to that of the resulting copular verb turn
out emphasizing the end-point of a process (Biber et al. 1999: 446) or indicating
“that the proposition is simply an accepted fact/occurrence” (Biber et al. 1999:
708).
Cases of no formal semantic correspondence of seem in translation were
considered zero correspondences, as in the following example:
(21) ENorig For some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him.
LTtrans Kažkodėl katė jį Ø prajuokino.
Literal: ‘For some reason the sight of the cat amused him.’
24% of seem cases were omitted in Lithuanian translations, a result that is
discussed in more detail in section 3.3.
As shown in Aijmer (2009: 72), seem can appear in a variety of syntactic
constructions such as seem + that-clause, seem + as if (like), seem + (like) NP,
seem + inﬁnitive, seem + adjective (participle), seem + adjective + that-clause,
and parenthetical seem. This variety of seem constructions was also observed in
the ParaCorpE-LT; however, the distribution of the constructions was not homo-
geneous. The most common construction with the verb seem in the ParaCorpE-LT
was seem + inﬁnitive (56%). Seem + adjective/participle accounts for 26% of all
2 The complementizer jog ‘that’ used in (20) is interchangeable with kad ‘that’, the diﬀerence is
in their use: jog ‘that’ is generally much less frequent than kad ‘that’ and is often only used for
stylistic purposes to avoid repetition.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 295
the constructions found and seem + NP constitutes 8%. The remaining 10% are
made up of seem + as if (1%), seem + that-clause (4%), seem + adjective + that-
clause (2%) constructions and parenthetical seem (3%). There were 33 instances
of seem with an overtly expressed experiencer, mostly in the it seems to X that
construction.
As discussed in section 1, the semantics of seem may largely be determined
by the syntactic structure it occurs in. Therefore, we have chosen the following
two most frequent syntactic patterns for our analysis of seem correspondences
in Lithuanian: seem + inﬁnitive and seem as a copular verb.
3.1.1 The seem + inﬁnitive construction
In the ParaCorpE-LT, 337 instances of the seem + inﬁnitive construction were found
where seem is most frequently translated by atrodyti/rodytis, (kad) ‘seem that’, i.e.
non-copular seem (33%). The number of Lithuanian correspondences of this type
was 110, out of which 66 cases were impersonal constructions with a that-clause
(examples 22–23) and 44 cases represented parenthetical use (example 24):
(22) ENorig There was a sound of trampling boots below, inside the house and
outside. The yard seemed to be full of men.
LTtrans Atrodė, kad kiemas pilnas žmonių.
(23) ENorig She gave the tips of his ﬁngers a quick squeeze that seemed to invite
not desire but aﬀection.
LTtrans Ji greitai spustelėjo jo pirštų galiukus, ir atrodė, kad tai labiau
išreiškia ne geismą, o prieraišumą.
(24) ENorig Tom could normally be relied upon to leap upon that kind of
repetition and rip the repeater to shreds, but he seems to have given up:
he merely rolls his eyes.
LTtrans Normaliomis aplinkybėmis galima būti tikram, kad Tomas pasigaus
pakartojimą ir sudraskys kartotoją į gabalus, bet jis, atrodo, nutarė
pasiduoti: tik užverčia akis aukštyn.
While Lithuanian atrodyti/rodytis ‘seem’ in such constructions retains its
inherent evidential dimension, the predominant meaning is epistemic, empha-
sizing the element of uncertainty the speaker communicates regarding the truth
of the proposition in the complement clause. The speaker is evaluating the avail-
able evidence and making a conclusion about the situation, but this conclusion
296 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
is tentative and preliminary. The inference that the speaker makes can be based
on sensory evidence of various types – visual, tactile, mental, auditory, etc.
which can be indicated (but not necessarily is) in the context. In (22), there
is auditory evidence for the speaker’s tentative inference, while in (23) tactile
evidence supports the preliminary conclusion of the speaker. In (24), there is a
combination of several types of evidence: the speaker knows certain facts about
Tom and observes his current reaction – all of this leads to a certain inference
which is mitigated by the parenthetical atrodo ‘it seems’.
17% of seem + inﬁnitive construction cases were translated by purely epis-
temic markers in Lithuanian, such as turbūt ‘probably’, sakytum ‘you’d say’, ko
gero ‘possibly’ which all convey the speaker’s subjective assessment (probability)
of the truth-value of the state of aﬀairs.
(25) ENorig It was the type that seemed to ﬂourish best under the dominion of
the Party.
LTtrans Šis tipas, ko gero, labiausiai klesti partijos valdose.
Literal: ‘This type possibly ﬂourishes best under the dominion of the
Party.’
In (25) ko gero ‘possibly’ shows that the speaker is not fully committed to the
proposition and only makes a speculative judgment.
Within the category of purely epistemic markers which are used as transla-
tion correspondences of seem + inﬁnitive, the synonymous words tarsi/tartum/
tarytum ‘as if/as though’ and lyg (ir) ‘like/as if’ were predominant (14%). Accord-
ing to the Lithuanian Grammar (Ambrazas, ed. 1997), the given comparative
particles “are used to express ostensible comparison and uncertainty, doubt at
the same time” (1997: 400). These epistemic comparative markers are almost
never used as correspondences of seem in other seem constructions (only 5 cases
of tarsi/tartum/tarytum/lyg (ir) ‘as if/as though’ are observed as translations
of seem in other constructions, as opposed to 47 cases in the seem + inﬁnitive
construction).
Aijmer (2009) notes that certain translation correspondences of seem +
inﬁnitive in Swedish and French highlight its meaning of similarity or approxi-
mation (Aijmer 2009: 75) which is also evident in seem + inﬁnitive translations
into Lithuanian using tarsi/tartum/tarytum ‘as if/as though’ as in (26) and (27):
(26) ENorig <. . .> he had seemed to walk in the delirium induced by drugs.
LTtrans <. . .> eina tarsi klejodamas, apsvaigintas narkotikų.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 297
(27) ENorig Suddenly his heart seemed to turn to ice and his bowels to water.
LTtrans Staiga jo širdis tarsi pavirto į ledą o viduriai – į vandenį.
Apart from marking an impressionistic comparison, tarsi/tartum/tarytum/lyg
(ir) ‘as if/as though’ are used as translation correspondences when seem signals
tentative observations of the speaker, as in (28):
(28) ENorig Her feet seemed to have grown broader, he noticed.
LTtrans Jis pastebėjo, kad jos kojos lyg pastambėjusios.
This usage can be related to Usonienė’s (2006: 330) observation that tarsi/
tartum/tarytum/lyg (ir) demonstrate the speaker’s doubt primarily appearing
due to the subjectivity of his/her reality interpretation based on senses.
12% of seem in the seem + inﬁnitive construction were rendered into Lithua-
nian by two evidential epistemic markers regis ‘seemingly’ and matyt ‘evidently’
which are always used parenthetically. Both markers have been derived from
perception verbs of seeing: regėti ‘see/behold’ and matyti ‘see’ and represent a
meaning transfer from direct visual perception to mental perception (Usonienė
2003); hence an evidential element in their semantic content. Since both markers
are inferential in nature, “self-inference, as an unreliable source of information,
triggers the meaning of uncertainty” (Usonienė 2007: 10) and determines their
epistemic values alongside the evidential one. Semantically, regis ‘seemingly’ is
closer to the seem cognates atrodo ‘it seems/apparently’ and rodos ‘it seems’
used parenthetically. This marker has a ﬂavour of speculative subjectivity (cf.
the noun regėjimas ‘vision’ which is derived from the same verb regėti ‘see/
behold’ and which has a meaning of an ostensible sight, vision, to denote hallu-
cinations), hence alongside the evidential meaning there is a strong epistemic
overtone and subjective evaluation, as in (29) and (30):
(29) ENorig He stood on a street corner and breathed the mild Amsterdam air
that always seemed to taste faintly of cigar smoke and ketchup.
LTtrans Stovėdamas prie gatvės kampo, jis kvėpavo švelniu Amsterdamo oru,
kuriame, regis, visuomet buvo juntamas silpnas cigarų dūmų ir pomidorų
padažo aromatas.
(30) ENorig Holy Grail is a woman, Sophie thought, her mind a collage of
interrelated ideas that seemed to make no sense.
LTtrans Šventasis Gralis yra moteris, pagalvojo Soﬁ; jos galvoje kirbėjo
begalė minčių, kurios, regis, neturėjo jokios prasmės.
298 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
The other evidential epistemic marker matyt ‘evidently’ is a far less frequent
correspondence to seem + inﬁnitive if compared to regis ‘seemingly’ (7 vs 33
occurrences respectively). Usually in the context of matyt ‘evidently’ there is
clear evidence for the inference the speaker is making as in (31) and (32):
(31) ENorig But he did seem to realize he was being watched, because he looked
up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at him from the other end of
the street.
LTtrans Tačiau, matyt, pajuto, jog jį stebi, nes ūmiai pakėlė akis ir pažiūrėjo į
katę, dėbsančią į jį iš kito gatvės galo.
(32) ENorig The driveling song seemed to have kept its popularity. You still
heard it all over the place.
LTtrans Ši primityvi dainelė, matyt, yra populiari.
As can be seen from (29)–(32), both regis ‘seemingly’ and matyt ‘evidently’ can
be referred to as epistemic evidentials because the two meanings converge and
cannot be separated. This feature, as noted by Aijmer (1996: 397) is typical of
many modal items as “a modal element may be a combination of judgment and
evidence”.
Furthermore, 7% of seem + inﬁnitive constructions were translated into Lithu-
anian with the cognate verb atrodyti ‘seem’ in its copular use. As has been dis-
cussed, it signals the speaker’s direct impression of the surrounding world and
therefore marks evidentiality, for example:
(33) ENorig The creature’s face seemed to be protruded, because of its bent
carriage.
LTtrans Padaro galva nuo susikūprinimo atrodė atsikišusi.
Among other Lithuanian correspondences of seem + inﬁnitive, 3% of trans-
lations rendered by mental/perception expressions have been found, such as
padaryti įspūdį ‘make an impression’, numanyti ‘infer’, manyti ‘assume’, etc.
To summarize, Lithuanian translation correspondences of seem in the seem +
inﬁnitive construction show the whole spectrum of seem meanings (see Table 4).
As can be seen from Table 4, even though seem correspondences range from
epistemic to evidential, the epistemic-evidential reading dominates when seem
is used in the given construction.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 299
Table 4: Meaning and frequency of Lithuanian correspondences of seem in the
seem + inﬁnitive construction
Translation correspondences in LT Raw frequency Frequency
Evidential-epistemic 151 45%
Epistemic 57 17%
Evidential 35 10%
Other 2 1%
Zero correspondences 92 27%
3.1.2 Seem as a copular verb
With 211 occurrences, seem as a copular verb (V + AP/NP) was the second most
frequent seem construction in the ParaCorpEN→LT. 40% of those seem cases were
translated into Lithuanian by the semantic cognate (at)rodyti(s) ‘seem’ used as a
copular verb and by the aspectual perfective pasirodyti ‘appear’, the meaning of
which in most of these cases is very close to the cognate of seem, for example:
(34) ENorig Janet’s bedsit seemed enormous when I moved into it <. . .>.
LTtrans Kai įsikėliau į Dženetės butą, jis man atrodė milžiniškas <. . .>.
(35) ENorig After the darkness the feeble light of the paraﬃn lamp had seemed
very bright.
LTtrans Po tamsos blausi paraﬁno lempelės šviesa pasirodė akinanti.
These types of correspondences describe the impression of the speaker
based on circumstantial inference and as a rule they do not contain information
on his/her judgment concerning likelihood of the statement, hence they are
purely evidential in nature. The same predominant evidential dimension is
reﬂected in the copular seem when its Lithuanian correspondences are mental
and perception verbs like skambėti ‘sound’, įsivaizduoti ‘imagine’ (3%) as illus-
trated in the following example:
(36) ENorig Already it was hard to capture what had seemed so clear a minute
before.
LTtrans Jau ir taip buvo sunku užﬁksuoti tai, kas vos prieš minutę skambėjo
taip aiškiai.
Literal: ‘Already it was hard to capture what had sounded so clear a
minute before.’
300 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
Evidential epistemic adverbials regis ‘seemingly’ and matyt ‘evidently’ con-
stitute 7% of the correspondences of seem used as a copular verb, whereas the
cognate atrodyti/rodytis ‘seem’ used as a parenthetical or followed by a kad
(‘that’)-clause accounts for 19% of Lithuanian correspondences. As has already
been discussed above, evidential-epistemic (at)rodyti(s) ‘seem’ in such construc-
tions conveys predominantly epistemic meaning:
(37) ENorig There seemed only one logical answer.
LTtrans Atrodo, kad yra vienintelis logiškas atsakymas.
Finally, 7% of seem used copularly have been translated into Lithuanian by purely
epistemic modal markers, such as tikriausiai (‘most probably’), gal (‘perhaps’),
ko gera (‘possibly’):
(38) ENorig <. . .> that seemed the sort of thing.
LTtrans Ko gera, taip ir bus.
Literal: ‘Possibly that will be the sort of thing.’
The quantitative distribution of the basic types of meaning of the copular seem
as mirrored in the Lithuanian translation correspondences is given in Table 5.
Table 5: Frequency of semantic types of Lithuanian correspondences of the
copular seem
Translation correspondences in LT Raw frequency Frequency
Evidential 91 43%
Evidential-epistemic 56 26%
Epistemic 14 7%
Other 1 1%
Zero correspondences 49 23%
Overall, the translation correspondences of seem used in the two most
frequent constructions (seem + inﬁnitive and copular seem) have yielded the
following distribution of evidential, epistemic and evidential-epistemic readings
in the given types of use of seem as shown in Table 6.
As can be seen from Table 6, the predominant semantic element of the
meaning of seem largely depends on the type of construction it occurs in.
Diverse translation correspondences, ranging from unambiguously epistemic to
evidential, in both given constructions shape the multifunctional proﬁle of
seem. The purely epistemic semantic property of seem is conﬁrmed by epistemic
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 301
possibility markers (3%) and epistemic comparative markers (9.5%) used in
Lithuanian translations. The evidential meaning component is revealed by mental
and perception expressions (3%) and verbs of appearance marking direct impres-
sion (seem/appear copular) (20%) identiﬁed as translation correspondences of
seem. However, the largest group of translation correspondences of seem are
epistentials having both epistemic modality and evidentiality values (38%).
Another interesting aspect of the analysis of seem that is observed not
only in the Lithuanian, but also in the Russian and Polish translations in the
HP corpus, is its tendency to disappear in translation.
3.2 Seem correspondences in the HP corpus
A total of 95 cases of the verb seem were identiﬁed in the English original, which
makes its normalized frequency 1.2 per 1000 words (exactly the same frequency
was observed in the ParaCorpE-LT). Again seem was used in a variety of construc-
tions, but a clearly dominating one was seem + inﬁnitive (71 cases out of 95).
The range of seem correspondences in all three languages is quite diverse:
seem was translated with 12 diﬀerent markers in Lithuanian, 9 diﬀerent markers
in Russian and 14 diﬀerent markers in Polish. Some of the correspondences
in the three languages were used only once, but the semantic content of each
contained either epistemic or evidential properties or reﬂected a combination of
both. All translation correspondences in all three languages, regardless of the
construction seem appeared in, are presented in Table 7.
The highest number of congruent seem correspondences is observed in the
Russian translation. The verb kazat’sja, which is the cognate of seem in Russian,
in all its forms takes up 46% of all seem correspondences. In the Lithuanian and
Polish congruent correspondences are used by translators to a much smaller
extent. Atrodyti/rodytis ‘seem’ constitutes 16% of seem correspondences in Lithua-
nian and the two cognates of seem in Polish, zdawać się and wydawać się, make
up 17% of all seem correspondences.
Table 6: The ratio of evidential and epistemic readings of seem as mirrored by
LT correspondences in the ParaCorpEN→LT
seem + inﬁnitive translation
correspondences
seem-copular translation
correspondences
Evidential-epistemic 45% Evidential-epistemic 26%
Epistemic 17% Epistemic 7%
Evidential 10% Evidential 43%
Other 1% Other 1%
Zero correspondences 27% Zero correspondences 23%
302 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
The range of translation correspondences in all three languages conﬁrms
the semantic diversity of the verb seem. All of these languages have markers
with overlapping epistemic and evidential values as well as purely epistemic
and evidential correspondences. However, such cases in which the translation
correspondences in the three languages are seem cognates, as in example (39),
are quite rare:
(39) ENorig It seems only yesterday she was in here herself, buying her ﬁrst wand.
LTtrans Rodos, tik vakar pirko iš manęs savo pirmąją lazdelę.
PLtrans Wydaje mi się, jakby była tu zaledwie wczoraj, żeby kupić swoją
pierwszą różdżkę.
RUtrans Kazalos’, tol’ko včera ona zahodila sjuda, kupit’ svoju pervuju
volšebnuju paločku.
If we compare the choice of translation correspondences across the three
languages, the dominating cases are the ones when translation correspondences
are not directly matching, mainly because seem is omitted in one or two lan-
guages. There were 51 cases out of 95 when one or two translators chose to
Table 7: Overall seem correspondences in Lithuanian, Russian and Polish translations
Lithuanian Russian Polish
Ø 36 kazat’sja ‘seem’ 44 Ø 42
regis ‘seemingly’ 20 Ø 32 zdawać się ‘seem’ 9
atrodyti ‘seem’ 10 vidimo ‘evidently’ 5 wyglądać ‘look’ 9
tarsi ‘as though’ 6 pokazat’sja ‘appear’ 4 chyba ‘perhaps’ 7
matyt ‘evidently’ 5 pohože ‘it looks as if’ 3 wydawać się ‘seem’ 7
rodos ‘it seems’ 5 verojatno ‘probably’ 2 sprawiać wrażenie ‘make
an impression/appear’
5
lyg (ir) ‘as if’ 5 budto ‘as if’ 2 wszystko wskazuje na to
‘everything shows that ...’
3
berods ‘probably’ 2 s vidu ‘apparently’ 1 najwyraźniej ‘evidently’ 3
pasirodyti ‘appear’ 2 po-vidimomu ‘apparently’ 1 jakby ‘as if’ 3
bemaž ‘nearly’ 1 okazat’sja ‘turn out/appear’ 1 wyraźnie ‘evidently’ 2
gal ‘perhaps’ 1 prawdopodobnie
‘possibly’
1
pajusti ‘feel’ 1 można by pomyśleć ‘one
may think’
1
turbūt ‘probably’ 1 musieć ‘must’ 1
okazać się ‘turn out/
appear’
1
jak widzę ‘as I see’ 1
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 303
omit seem. Occasionally, translators in diﬀerent languages tried to capture the
meaning of seem with correspondences that convey slightly diﬀerent semantic
nuances as in (40):
(40) ENorig Your platform should be somewhere in the middle, but they don’t
seem to have built it yet, do they?
LTtrans Tavasis turėtų būti vidury tarp jų, bet, matyt, dar nepastatytas, ką?
PLtrans Twój peron powinien być gdzieś pomiędzy nimi, ale chyba go jeszcze
nie zbudowali, co?
RUtrans Tvoja platforma dolžna byt’ gde-to poseredine, no ee, kažetsja,
ne postroili poka, ne pravda li?
In (40), we can see that the original seem + inﬁnitive construction is rendered by
an epistemic evidential adverbial matyt ‘evidently’ in Lithuanian, an epistemic
chyba ‘perhaps’ in Polish and congruent parenthetical kažetsja ‘it seems’ in
Russian. This shows that seem correspondences in the three languages all retain
a certain aspect of the multifunctional seem, but which aspect is highlighted in
translation is the individual choice of the translator. On the other hand, non-
congruent epistential correspondences are synonymous to the congruent ones.
This might be the reason why the number of congruent correspondences to
seem is quite low, especially in Lithuanian and Polish. Another important fea-
ture, observable in translations across the three languages, is the frequent cases
of zero correspondences, which has been already noted in the analysis of the
data from the ParaCorpEN-LT.
3.3 Zero correspondences of seem
One of the most broadly discussed issues in studies based on translation corpora
is zero-translation correspondences, especially of various non-propositional lin-
guistic items, such as discourse markers, modal expressions (cf. Aijmer 1996;
Aijmer and Altenberg 2002). A high percentage of zero-correspondences of
seem was also noted by both Johansson (2001) and Aijmer (2009). Both studies
yielded similar results regarding zero correspondences of the verb seem: 11% of
zero correspondences in English-Swedish translations (Aijmer 2009) and 13% in
English-Norwegian translations (Johansson 2001).
The number of zero correspondences for seem in Lithuanian translations
in the ParaCorpEN-LT-EN is quite high and constitutes 24% of all seem cases. As
noted by Johansson, “the general background for the occurrence of zero corre-
spondences is the weakened meaning of seem” (Johansson 2001: 238). This is
304 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
perhaps clearest in seem + to be constructions which frequently are translated
into Lithuanian just with the verb to be with seem lost, as in (41), or with some
other verb unqualiﬁed by seem as in (42):
(41) ENorig For long periods the High seem to be securely in power <. . .>.
LTtrans Ilgus laiko tarpus aukštieji saugiai Ø būna valdžioje <. . .>.
(42) ENorig Even Julia seemed to be impressed.
LTtrans Net Džulijai jis Ø padarė įspūdį.
In Lithuanian translations seem sometimes disappears when the copulative
verb is simply omitted by the translator. In such cases it is not clear whether the
translator’s intention was to keep the original seem or to use to be as a copular,
as in (43):
(43) ENorig Langdon had to admit, it seemed odd.
LTtrans Lengdonas turėjo pripažinti, jog visa tai Ø – išties labai keista.
As noted by Johansson (2001: 239), sometimes translators regard seem
redundant when there are other mental or perception verbs in the context. This
appears to be a strategy also used in Lithuanian translations. (44) and (45) are
examples of such a choice by translators:
(44) ENorig She looked disappointed but seemed to know it was the right thing
to do.
LTtrans Ji atrodė nusivylusi, bet kartu Ø suprato, kad Lengdonas taip ir turi
pasielgti.
Literal: ‘She seemed disappointed but at the same time understood that
for Langdon it was the right thing to do.’
(45) ENorig Harry didn’t know whether he was imagining it or not, but he
seemed to keep running into Snape wherever he went.
LTtrans Haris nesuprato, ar jam tik taip atrodo, bet stačiai kiekviename
žingsnyje Ø susidurdavo su Sneipu.
In (44), both look and seem in the original are merged into one atrodė ‘it
seemed’ as it is the cognate of both of them and to use it twice probably seemed
redundant to the translator; thus, suprato ‘(sb) understood’ is left unmodiﬁed in
the translation. In (45), the verbs imagine and seem in the original are merged
into one translation correspondence atrodo ‘it seems’. Similar cases are observed
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 305
with other mental verbs (especially with think or notice) and this phenomenon is
also attested to in the English-Norwegian translations (Johansson 2001: 239).
As was already mentioned, in the HP corpus, zero correspondences of
seem is the most frequent choice by translators into Lithuanian and Polish, and
the second most frequent choice in Russian. Throughout the whole corpus (95
occurrences of seem) there were 12 cases (13% of all seem correspondences)
when all three translators chose zero correspondence to seem. In some cases,
the same tendency of the semantic merge of two mental process/perception verbs
into one to avoid semantic redundancy can be observed, as in (46) and (47):
(46) ENorig Yet sometimes he thought (or maybe hoped) that strangers in the
street seemed to know him.
LTtrans Bet kai kada jam atrodydavo (o gal to tikėdavosi), kad praeiviai
gatvėje jį Ø atpažįsta.
Literal: ‘Yet sometimes it seemed to him (or maybe he hoped so) that
passersby in the street know him.’
PLtrans Czasami jednak myślał´ (albo raczej miał nadzieję), ze Ø znają go
niektórzy spotykani na ulicy obcy ludzie.
Literal: ‘Sometimes yet [he] thought (or rather hoped) that some strangers
in the street know him.’
RUtrans Hotja inogda on dumal (ili nadejalsja), čto neznakomcy na ulice Ø
znajut ego.
Literal: ‘Yet sometimes [he] thought (or hoped) that strangers in the street
know him.’
(47) ENorig As he sat in the usual morning traﬃc jam, he couldn’t help noticing
that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about.
LTtrans Stovėdamas rytmetineje spūstyje, negalėjo nepastebėti, kad Ø
aplinkui pilna keistai apsirengusių praeivių.
PLtrans Kiedy utkwił w normalnym porannym korku ulicznym, nie mógł nie
zauważyć, że Ø naokoło jest mnóstwo dziwacznie ubranych ludzi.
RUtrans On ždal v obyčnoj utrennej probke i prosto ne mog ne zametit’ Ø
ogromnogo količestva stranno odetyh ljudej.
In the Lithuanian translation of (46), seem used in the original disappears,
whereas think is translated with the Lithuanian semantic cognate of seem, atrodyti.
Since in Lithuanian atrodyti ‘seem’ can also be used in the meaning of think,
apparently the translator considered using it twice redundant. The Polish and
Russian translators kept the original think in the translation and did not use
seem at all. Thus all three translations do not retain the original usage of seem.
306 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
In (47) in all three languages notice and seem from the original are blended into
one notice to convey the subjective impression of the experiencer.
However, in some cases it remains unclear why translators in some target
languages have chosen to omit seem:
(48) ENorig But he seemed to REALLY hate me.
LTtrans Bet jis manęs tiesiog Ø nekenčia.
PLtrans Ale on mnie naprawdę Ø nienawidzi.
RUtrans Mne kažetsja, on menja nenavidit.
It could be that the Lithuanian and Polish translators have found seem to
be redundant because of the emphasizer really. In Russian, seem is translated
by a congruent correspondence kažetsja ‘it seems’. The given cases of translation
diﬀerences perhaps could be attributed to a culture-speciﬁc alternative con-
ceptualization of seem or culture-speciﬁc understanding and realization of cer-
tain pragmatic functions, for instance, hedging, as is illustrated in the following
section.
3.4 Seem and its hedging function
Seem as a hedge was already mentioned in one of the ﬁrst empirical studies on
hedging in the spoken professional discourse of physicians by Prince, Frader,
and Bosk (1982). The authors of the study attribute such expressions as I guess
or it seems that to the so called shields, that is hedging devices that do not aﬀect
the truth conditions of the proposition itself, but help the speaker implicate that
“s/he is not fully and personally committed in the usual or ‘unmarked’ way to
the belief that the relevant state of aﬀairs actually obtains” (Prince, Frader, and
Bosk 1982: 89).
In subsequent studies, seem is frequently mentioned as a hedge, especially
in the context of academic discourse (Salager-Meyer 1997; Hyland 1998; Varttala
2001; Martín-Martín 2008, etc.). Though it is generally agreed that seem softens
the assertion, which otherwise would be too categorical, the interpretation of the
dominating component of the semantic content of the verb is not so straight-
forward.Varttala attributes seem to the tentative linking verbs category, the func-
tion of which is “to reduce assertiveness, implying limits as to the accuracy and
applicability of the information presented” (Varttala 2001: 124). Salager-Meyer
lists seem and appear as epistemic verbs which can be used to highlight “the
speculative nature of the statements” (Salager-Meyer 1997: 116). Likewise, Martín-
Martín (2008) considers seem and its Spanish cognate parecer to be epistemic
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 307
modality markers used to realize various pragmatic strategies, for example, pro-
tecting the writer from criticism.
Hyland (1998) employs the term epistemic evidential sensory hedge to refer
to seem and this reference reﬂects the multifunctional nature of the verb as well
as emphasizing its pragmatic function. Acting as a hedge, seem creates distance
between the author and the proposition, thus establishing a strategic option
for the author to avoid full responsibility for the statement. In his deﬁnition of
hedging Hyland singles out two major functions of hedging devices. They either
“indicate a lack of complete commitment to the truth value of an accompanying
proposition or a desire not to express that commitment categorically” (Hyland
1998: 1). Both functions can be performed by seem and its correpondences in
Lithuanian:
(49) ENorig So it seems reasonable to conclude that the curator knew his
attacker.
LTtrans Vadinasi, atrodytų logiška manyti, jog kuratorius pažinojo
užpuoliką.
(50) ENorig <. . .> you told me you wanted to spread ashes, and yet you seem to
be sightseeing.
LTtrans <. . .> jūs man sakėte, kad norite išbarstyti pelenus, o dabar atrodo,
kad jūs apžiūrinėjate bažnyčią.
Seem in (49) signals the speaker’s lack of complete commitment to the propo-
sition, which is perhaps due to uncertainty. The speaker interprets the available
facts and draws a reasonable conclusion, but he cannot be absolutely sure that
his interpretation is correct. Hence seem and its correspondence in Lithuanian
atrodytų ‘it would seem’ which is even more tentative due to its subjunctive
mood form, weakens the strength of the speaker’s assumption. In example (50)
the speaker does not want to sound impolite and therefore uses seem to hedge
the accusation (cf. the unhedged version and yet you are sightseeing).
Those pragmatic functions of seem are reﬂected in its translation corre-
spondences of various types. Non-copular atrodyti as well as modal adverbials
and mental verbs which were used as translation correspondences of seem can
perform the function of hedging in Lithuanian. The semantic content of all of
these markers always retains the element of personal opinion or uncertainty,
either natural or strategic, no matter whether it is backgrounded or foregrounded
by other semantic values. It is precisely this tentativeness present in seem corre-
spondences which conﬁrms the hedging potential of seem. Aijmer (2009) also
notes that seem, especially in the seem + inﬁnitive construction is frequently
308 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
rendered into Swedish, German and French by markers with a clear hedging
function.
Translations of seem with the copulative use of atrodyti ‘seem’, on the other
hand, may also be treated as hedges, even though they are mostly evidential in
nature and record direct observations. Mithun has observed that seem can be an
indicator that the statement is based on appearance and hence hedge probability,
as in her example “Sam seems tired” (Mithun 1986: 90). As seem is not equivalent
to is, the speaker’s commitment is always only partial, because what seems to
one individual is not a universal truth, but his/her subjective impression, that
can be denied later, for example:
(51) ENorig Sophie Neveu seemed far too solid of character to be mixed up in
something that sordid.
LTtrans Soﬁ Nevė atrodo per daug rimta, kad leistųsi į tokias niekingas
avantiūras.
In (51) atrodo ‘seems’ indicates the direct impression of the speaker, but simulta-
neously signals that the speaker does not want full responsibility for the state-
ment and therefore hedges (cf. unhedged version (51a) which is categorical):
(51a) Sophie Neveu was/is far too solid of character to be mixed up in something
that sordid.
Some correspondences of seem, however, cannot be seen as performing the
function of hedging. Such verbs as pajusti ‘feel’, skambėti ‘sound’, sudaryti
įspūdį ‘make an impression’, įsivaizduoti ‘imagine’, paaiškėti ‘become clear’,
some cases of the aspectual perfective pasirodyti ‘appear’ just record evidential
perception and do not mitigate the content of the proposition. It is interesting
to note that Aijmer (2009) in her analysis of parenthetical seem provides the
deﬁnition from the OED that emphasizes the evidential aspect of seem when
used parenthetically:
Parenthetically. Now often with somewhat of the sense “So I am informed”, or “As it
appears from rumour or report” (OED seem 7d, in Aijmer 2009: 79).
In Aijmer’s examples no intersubjective meaning of this kind is reﬂected by
translation correspondences of parenthetical seem and as the scholar notes,
seem functions as a “generalized hedge” (Aijmer 2009: 79). However, in our
corpus there are examples of parenthetical constructions with seem where the
evidential meaning deﬁned in the OED appears to be realized. However, in those
cases seem correspondences do not act as hedges, as illustrated in (52)–(54):
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 309
(52) ENorig Winston read through the oﬀending article. Big Brother’s Order for
the Day, it seemed, had been chieﬂy devoted to praising the work of an
organization known as FFCC <. . .>.
LTtrans Paaiškėjo, kad Didžiojo Brolio vedamasis beveik ištisai gyrė
organizaciją CPPT <. . .>.
(53) ENorig But he lingered for some minutes more, talking to the old man,
whose name, he discovered, was not Weeks-as one might have gathered
from the inscription over the shop- front – but Charrington. Mr Charrington,
it seemed, was a widower aged sixty-three and had inhabited this shop for
thirty years.
LTtrans Paaiškėjo, kad jis yra šešiasdešimt trejų metų našlys ir šioje
parduotuvėje gyvena trisdešimt metų.
(54) ENorig Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed, had sneaked up behind
Neville and grabbed him as a joke.
LTtrans Pasirodo, Smirdžius prislinko Neviliui iš už nugaros ir sugriebė jį.
In all three examples the meaning of seem is close to turn out. It is clear from
the extended context that seem indicates reported information. The transla-
tion correspondences, however, do not function as hedges in Lithuanian but
emphasize the reportative nature of the propositions.
The concept of hedging closely links with cases of zero correspondences in
translation. Since hedging is considered to be culture speciﬁc, the question
raised while dealing with translations is whether a translator can eﬀectively
interpret not only the meaning of the utterance, but also the writer’s original
intention. Markkanen and Schröder raise the question as to whether a translator
can aﬀect the amount of hedging while translating the original text with his or
her background cultural conventions in mind (Markkanen and Schröder 1989).
Low claims that hedging or mitigation is a basic part of British culture (Low
1996: 23) and so it is only natural that this cultural trait is reﬂected in ﬁctional
literature as well. The same hedging conventions might not be shared by other
cultures and this cultural variation in qualifying information may be reﬂected in
translations.
A special case study of the translation of the second Harry Potter series book
into Lithuanian, Russian, Polish and Spanish3 revealed that in the Spanish lan-
guage the number of cases of seem reduction was signiﬁcantly lower than in the
3 We wish to thank Juana I. Marín Arrese from Universidad Complutense de Madrid for her
valuable comments on the interpretation of some seem correspondences in Spanish translation.
310 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
other three languages (29 cases vs 53 [LT], 57 [RU], 45 [PL] cases respectively).
Interestingly, research on hedging in Spanish demonstrates that this pragmatic
strategy is used fairly frequently. For example, Martín-Martín (2008: 147) in a
comparative study of English and Spanish research articles in the ﬁeld of Clinical
and Health Psychology observes that hedging “is favoured by the writers in both
languages [Spanish vs English], although a slightly higher tendency was reported
in the English research papers”. Likewise, in the contrastive analysis of English
and Spanish architecture project descriptions Cabanes (2007: 154) concludes
that “hedging strategies are signalled by a very heterogeneous range of lexico-
grammatical items, of which almost parallel examples appear in both languages
[Spanish and English]”. In (55), where seem in the original text clearly performs
the pragmatic function of hedging, it is only the Spanish translation that transfers
the same mitigating eﬀect of seem into the target language:
(55) ENorig I noticed, in my search of the park, that considerable damage seems
to have been done to a very valuable Whomping Willow.
LTtrans Apžiūrėdamas parką pamačiau, kad Ø padaryta didelė žala labai
vertingam Gluosniui Galiūnui.
PLtrans Przeszukując park, zauważyłem, że bardzo cenna wierzba bijąca Ø
została poważnie uszkodzona.
RUtrans Pri osmotre parka ja zametil, čto značitel’nyj uŝerb Ø byl nanesen
ves’ma cennoj Drakučej ive.
EStrans He percibido, en mi examen del parque, que un ejemplar muy valioso
de sauce boxeador parece haber sufrido daños considerables.
The cultural aspect of hedging could perhaps be one of the explanations for a
frequent omission of seem in Lithuanian, Russian and Polish translations.
4 Conclusions
The ﬁndings of the parallel corpus-based analysis carried out corroborate the
multifunctionality of seem as mirrored in the Lithuanian, Polish and Russian
correspondences in translations from the English original. This contrastive look
at translation correspondences has also allowed us to cast light on how the two
domains of evidential and epistemic meanings correlate by looking at the corre-
spondences in Lithuanian translations, which have been further checked against
Polish and Russian data. There are many cases of use where the two qualiﬁca-
tions of evidentiality and epistemic modality are very closely interrelated and
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 311
inseparable. Much depends on the reliability of the source of evidence available
for the speaker to draw his/her judgement.
The high number of seem correspondences range from purely epistemic to
purely evidential with overlapping epistemic and evidential values in between
and reﬂect the complexity and multifunctionality of seem. As noted by Simon-
Vandenbergen and Aijmer (2007), “the alternative translations of a lexical source
item constitute a paradigm of speciﬁc meanings representing the semantic proﬁle
of a word as mirrored in another language” (Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer
2007: 18). The cluster of diﬀerent shades of meanings that seem possesses is
reﬂected in the variety of correspondences that all together result in the multi-
functional epistemic-evidential proﬁle of seem.
Both congruent and non-congruent correspondences of seem in translation
highlight the semantic diversity of the verb. It can also be observed that the
dominating semantic properties of seem depend on the construction the verb
occurs in. Evidential reading is dominant in the copular-seem construction,
while evidential-epistemic is more common in the seem + inﬁnitive construction.
Thus, following Boye (2010) who suggests mapping the two categories (eviden-
tiality and epistemic modality) under the conceptual domain of epistemic expres-
sions the verb seem can be regarded as a marker of epistemicity.
Although the study mainly concentrated on seem correspondences in Lithua-
nian translations, a preliminary analysis of Russian and Polish translations con-
ﬁrms similar tendencies of frequent zero correspondence and varied semantic
range of seem correspondences in these languages. A high number of seem
reduction cases in Lithuanian, Polish and Russian translations might be an indi-
cation of diﬀerent cultural behaviour conventions of directness and hedging.
While hedging is a natural social norm in Anglo-Saxon culture, it could be much
less characteristic to other cultures and this might be reﬂected in translations.
The ﬁndings of the study also corroborate the claim made by many previous
cross-linguistic studies that grammatical categories do not and cannot have
identical straightforward correspondences across languages. Therefore, it is not
plausible to speak of congruent correspondences in translation when dealing
with grammaticalized expressions across languages. The English verb seem has
undergone grammaticalization and it is most frequently used as a raising verb in
the construction with the inﬁnitive, which is associated with its evidential and
epistemic qualiﬁcations. Seem cognates in the languages analyzed are not
raising verbs and the range of their meaning shift is not identical across lan-
guages. Therefore it is natural to expect a great variety of correspondences
reﬂecting diﬀerences in the lexical and grammatical architecture of the given
functional domain.
312 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
Data Sources
DLLe – Dictionary of the Lithuanian Language (Lietuvių kalbos žodynas: http://www.lkz.lt).
MLDe – Modern Lithuanian Dictionary (Dabartinės lietuvių kalbos žodynas: http://www.lki.lt/dlkz/).
ParaCorpE-LT – The English Lithuanian Parallel Corpus (see Usonienė and Šolienė 2010).
HP Corpus
[English] Rowling, J.K. 1998. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone. Arthur A. Levine Books /
Scholastic.
[Lithuanian] Rowling, J.K. 2000. Haris Poteris ir išminties akmuo. Translated by Zita Marienė.
Vilnius: Alma Litera.
[Polish] Rowling, J.K. 2000. Harry Potter i Kamien Filozoﬁczny. Translated by Andrzej Polkowski.
Media Rodzina.
[Russian] Rouling, Džoan Ketlin. 2001. Garri Potter i ﬁlosovskij kamen. Narodnyj perevod.
References
Aijmer, Karin. 1972. Some Aspects of Psychological predicates in English. Stockholm: Almqvist
and Wiksell.
Aijmer, Karin. 1980. Evidence and the Declarative Sentence. Stockholm: Almqvist and Wiksell.
Aijmer, Karin. 1996. Swedish modal particles in a contrastive perspective. In: Katarzyna M.
Jaszczolt and Ken Turner (eds.), Contrastive Semantics and Pragmatics: Meanings and
Representations, Volume 1, 393–427. Oxford/New York/Tokyo: Pergamon.
Aijmer, Karin. 1997. I think – an English modal particle. In: Toril Swan and Olaf Jansen Westvik
(eds.), Modality in Germanic Languages, 1–47. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Aijmer, Karin. 2001. Epistemic modal adverbs of certainty in an English-Swedish perspective.
SPRIK Reports, No 5. http://www.hf.uio.no/forskningsprosjekter/sprik/docs/pdf/aijmer.
pdf (accessed 10 April, 2011).
Aijmer, Karin. 2007. The meaning and functions of the Swedish discourse marker alltså: evidence
from translation corpora. Catalan Journal of Linguistics 6: 31–59.
Aijmer, Karin. 2009. Seem and evidentiality. Functions of Language 16(1): 63–88.
Aijmer, Karin and Bengt Altenberg. 2002. Zero translations and cross-linguistic equivalence:
Evidence from the English-Swedish parallel Corpus. In: Leiv Egil Breivik and Angela
Hasselgren (eds.), From the COLT’s mouth . . . and others: language corpora studies in
honour of Anna-Brita Stenström, 19–41. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Aijmer, Karin and Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen. 2003. The discourse particle well and its
equivalents in Swedish and Dutch. Linguistics 41(6): 1123–1161.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2006. Evidentiality in grammar. In: Keith Brown (ed.), Encyclopedia of
Language and Linguistics, 2nd edition, Volume 4, 320–325. Oxford: Elsevier.
Ambrazas, Vytautas (ed.). 1997. Lithuanian grammar. Vilnius: Baltos lankos.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 313
Anderson, Lloyd B. 1986. Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: Typologically regular
asymmetries. In: Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology, 273–312. Norwood: Ablex.
Austin, John Langshaw. 1962. Sense and Sensibilia. Oxford: Clarendon.
Baker, Mona. 1992. In Other Words: A Coursebook on Translation. London and New York:
Routledge.
Barron, Julia. 1997. LFG and the history of raising verbs. In: Miriam Butt and Tracy Holloway
King (eds.), Proceedings of the LFG 97 Conference, CSLI Publications. http://www-csli.
stanford.edu/publications/ (accessed 15 June, 2011).
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. Essex: Pearson Education.
Bolinger, Dwight. 1991. The Syntax of parecer. In: Joseph Silverman (ed.), Essays on Spanish:
Words and Grammar, 25–43. Newark: Juan de la Cuesta.
Botne, Robert. 1997. Evidentiality and epistemic modality in Lega. Studies in Language 21(3):
509–532.
Boye, Kasper and Peter Harder. 2007. Complement-taking predicates. Usage and linguistic
structure. Studies in Language 31(3): 569–606.
Boye, Kasper. 2010. Semantic maps and the identiﬁcation of cross-linguistic generic categories:
evidentiality and its relation to epistemic modality. Linguistic Discovery 8(1): 4–22. http://
journals.dartmouth.edu/cgi-bin/WebObjects/Journals.woa/2/xmlpage/1/article/344?
htmlOnce=yes Volume 8 Issue 1 (2010) (accessed 30 April, 2011).
Cabanes, Paloma Poveda. 2007. A contrastive analysis of hedging in English and Spanish archi-
tecture project descriptions. Resla 20: 139–158.
Chafe, Wallace. 1986. Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In: Wallace
Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
261–272. Norwood: Ablex.
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.). 1986. Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Episte-
mology. Norwood: Ablex.
Cornillie, Bert. 2007. Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality in Spanish (Semi-) Auxiliaries: A
Cognitive-Functional Approach. (Applications of Cognitive Linguistics 5.) Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Cornillie, Bert. 2009 Evidentiality and epistemic modality: On the close relationship between
two diﬀerent categories. Functions of Language 16(1): 44–62.
de Haan, Ferdinand. 2007. Raising as grammaticalization: the case of Germanic seem-verbs.
Rivista di Linguistica 19(1): 129–150.
Dendale, Patrick and Julie Van Bogaert. 2007. A semantic description of French lexical eviden-
tial markers and the classiﬁcation of evidentials. Rivista di Linguistica 19(1): 65–89.
Diewald, Gabriele, Marijana Kresic and Elena Smirnova. 2009. The grammaticalization channels
of evidentials and modal particles in german: integration in textual structures as a common
feature. In: Maj-Britt Mosegaard Hansen and Jacqueline Visconti (eds.), Current Trends in
Diachronic Semantics and Pragmatics, 189–209. Bingley: Emerald Group Publishing.
Dixon, Robert M. W. 1992. A New Approach to English Grammar, on Semantic Principles.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Faller, Martina T. 2002. Semantics and Pragmatics of Evidentials in Cuzco Quechua. Stan-
ford University Dissertation. http://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staﬀ/martina.t.faller/
documents/Thesis-AU.pdf (accessed 05 May, 2011).
314 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
Gisborne, Nicholas and Jasper Holmes. 2007. A history of English evidential verbs of appearance.
English Language and Linguistics 11(1): 1–29.
Hyland, Ken. 1998. Hedging in Scientiﬁc Research Articles. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins Publishing Company.
Johansson, Stig. 2001. The English verb seem and its correspondences in Norwegian: What
seems to be the problem. In: Karin Aijmer (ed.), A wealth of English. Studies in Honour of
Goran Kjellmer, 221–245. Göteborg: Acta Universitatis Gothoburgensis.
Johansson, Stig. 2007. Seeing Through Multilingual Corpora. On the Use of Corpora in Contras-
tive Studies. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Johansson, Stig and Knut Hoﬂand. 1994. Towards an English-Norwegian parallel corpus. In:
Udo Fries, Gunnel Tottie and Peter Schneider (eds.), Creating and Using English Language
Corpora, 25–37. Amsterdam and Atlanta, GA: Rodopi.
Kaltenböck, Gunther. 2007. Position, prosody and scope: the case of English comment clauses.
Vienna English Working Papers 16(1): 3–38.
Lampert, Günther and Martina Lampert. 2010. Where does evidentiality reside? Notes on (alleged)
limiting cases: Quotatives and seem-verbs. In: Björn Wiemer and Katerina Stathi (eds.),
STUF – Language Typology and Universals. Special Issue on the Data Base on Evidetiality
Markers in European Languages, 63(4): 308–321.
Low, Graham. 1996. Intensiﬁers and hedges in questionnaire items and the lexical invisibility
hypothesis. Applied Linguistics 17(1): 1–37.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I., Laura Hidalgo-Downing and Silvia Molina-Plaza. 2004. Evidential and
deontic modality in English and Spanish: the Expression of writer stance in newspaper
discourse. In: Roberta Facchinetti and Frank Palmer (eds.), English Modality in Perspec-
tive. Genre Analysis and Contrastive studies, 121–139. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Markkanen, Raija and Hartmut Schröder. 1989. Hedging as a Translation Problem in Scientiﬁc
Texts. In: Christer Laurén and M. Nordman (eds.), Special Language: From Humans Think-
ing to Thinking Machines, 171–180. Multilingual Matters Ltd.
Martín-Martín, Pedro. 2008. The Mitigation of Scientiﬁc Claims in Research Papers: A Com-
parative Study. International Journal of English Studies 8(2): 133–152.
Mithun, Marianne. 1986. Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian. In: Wallace Chafe and
Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, 89–113.
Norwood: Ablex.
Noël, Dirk. 2002. Believe-type matrix verbs and their complements. Corpus-based investigations
of their functions in discourse. A collection of articles. Ph.D. dissertation, Ghent University.
Nuyts, Jan and Wietske Vonk. 1999. Epistemic modality and focus in Dutch. Linguistics 37(4):
699–737.
Plungian, Vladimir. 2001. The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal of Pragmatics 33: 349–357.
Poutsma, Hendrik. 1904. A Grammar of Late Modern English. Part I The Sentence. Gröningen:
P. Noordhoﬀ.
Poutsma, Hendrik. 1926. A Grammar of Late Modern English. Part II. Gröningen: P. Noordhoﬀ.
Prince, Ellen F., Joel Frader and Charles Bosk. 1982. On hedging in physician-physician dis-
course. In: Robert J. Di Pietro (ed.), Linguistics and the professions. Proceedings of the
Second Annual Delaware Symposium on Language Studies, 83–97. Norwood: Ablex.
Ransom, Evelyn N. 1986. Complementation: Its Meanings and Forms. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins Publishing Company.
A cross-linguistic look at the multifunctionality of the English verb seem 315
Rooryck, Johan. 1997. On the interaction between raising and focus in sentential complementa-
tion. Studia Linguistica 51: 1–49.
Salager-Meyer, Françoise. 1997. I think that perhaps you should: A study of hedges in written
scientiﬁc discourse. In: Tom Miller (ed.), Functional Approaches to Written Texts: Class-
room Applications, 105–118. Washington: United States Information Agency.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie and Karin Aijmer. 2002–2003. The expectation marker of
course in a cross-linguistic perspective. Languages in Contrast 4(1): 13–43.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie and Karin Aijmer. 2007. The Semantic Field of Modal Certainty –
A Corpus-Based Study of English Adverbs. (Topics in English Linguistics 56.) Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Squartini, Mario. 2008. Lexical vs. grammatical evidentiality in French and Italian. Linguistics
46(5): 917–947.
Squartini, Mario. 2009. Evidentiality, epistemicity and their diachronic connections to non-
factuality. In: Maj-Britt Mosegaard Hansen and Jacqueline Visconti (eds.), Current Trends
in Diachronic Semantics and Pragmatics, 214–225. Bingley: Emerald Group Publishing.
Usonienė, Aurelija. 2000. On the Modality of the English verbs of seeming. Belgian Journal of
Linguistics 14: 183–204.
Usonienė, Aurelija. 2003. Extension of meaning: verbs of perception in English and Lithuanian.
In: Katarzyna M. Jaszczolt and Ken Turner (eds.), Meaning Through Language Contrast:
The Cambridge Papers, Volume 1, 193–220. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Publishing Company.
Usonienė, Aurelija. 2006. Tikimybės veiksmažodžiai anglų ir lietuvių kalbose: atitikmenų paieška
[Probability verbs in English and Lithuanian: in search of equivalents]. Baltistica 46(2):
321–332.
Usonienė, Aurelija. 2007. Degrees of conﬁdence and modal words in Lithuanian. Mokslo žurnalas
Lietuvių kalba (1). http:/
/www.lietuviukalba.lt/index.php?id=71 (accessed 06 July, 2011).
Usonienė, Aurelija and Audronė Šolienė. 2010. Choice of strategies in realizations of epistemic
possibility in English and Lithuanian. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics 15(2):
291–316.
van der Auwera, Johan, Ewa Schalley and Jan Nuyts. 2005. Epistemic possibility in a Slavonic
parallel corpus – a pilot study. In: Bjorn Hansen and Petr Karlik (eds.), Modality in Slavonic
languages. New perspectives, 201–217. München: Sagner.
Varttala, Teppo. 2001. Hedging in Scientiﬁcally Oriented Discourse: Exploring Variation accord-
ing to Discipline and Intended Audience. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Tampere. http://
acta.uta.ﬁ (accessed 01 July, 2011).
Wiemer, Björn. 2010. Hearsay in European languages: toward an integrative account of gram-
matical and lexical marking. In: Gabriele Diewald and Elena Smirnova (eds.), The Linguistic
Realization of Evidentiality in European Languages (Empirical approaches to language
typology 49.), 59–130. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter,
Wierzbicka, Anna. 1988. The Semantics of Grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Publishing Company.
Willett, Thomas L. 1988. A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12: 51–97.
316 Aurelija Usonienė and Jolanta Šinkūnienė
Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
Annotating English adverbials for the
categories of epistemic modality and
evidentiality
1 Introduction
This paper reports part of the research currently carried out within the CONTRANOT
project,1 which aims at the creation and validation of contrastive functional de-
scriptions through corpus analysis and annotation in English and Spanish, and
at the production of an annotated bilingual corpus called CONTRASTES (Lavid
2008, 2012; Lavid, Arús, and Zamorano-Mansilla 2010). Modality and evidentiality
are two of the categories to be annotated, together with appraisal, coherence
relations and theme. The methodology used for the design of the annotation
systems is aimed at producing annotation schemes that yield acceptable levels
of inter-annotator agreement.
The focus of this paper is to contribute to the understanding of epistemic
modality and evidentiality as well as of their relationship with neighbouring
categories, such as other modalities, manner or mirativity. The article also aims
to develop the annotation system of epistemic modality and evidentiality in a
number of English adverbials2 randomly selected from the British National Corpus
(BNC). As will be seen throughout the article, the complexity of many of the
adverbials often makes it necessary to include speciﬁcations for their individual
annotation.
The article is structured as follows: Section 2 speciﬁes the concept and
scope of epistemic modality and evidentiality that will be adopted as point of
departure for the annotation system. Section 3 covers the methodology and
data used for the design of this system, as well as the list of adverbials selected
for annotation. Sections 4 to 6 describe the annotation process with diﬀerent
1 Data of the project: “Creation and validation of contrastive descriptions (English-Spanish)
through corpus analysis and annotation: linguistic, methodological and computational issues”.
Ref. FFI2008-03384 (Ministry of Science and Innovation). Director: Prof. Julia Lavid, Universidad
Complutense de Madrid.
2 The term adverbial, as it is used in this paper, encompasses epistemic and evidential adverbs
as well as expressions of other syntactic categories that are similar in meaning and function to
these adverbs, such as the Nominal Group no doubt or the Prepositional Phrases in all probability,
in all likelihood or for sure.
types of adverbials: epistemic probability (Section 4), epistemic certainty (Section
5) and evidentiality (Section 6). All these types are treated in terms of preliminary
considerations about the annotation of each group, lists of adverbials that are
epistemic or evidential in all their occurrences, and speciﬁc accounts of the
annotation experiments and resulting criteria set for the adverbials whose epis-
temic or evidential meaning coexists with one or more other meanings. Section 7
oﬀers a synoptic view of the resulting annotation system, and Section 8 sums up
the main conclusions.
2 Epistemic modality and evidentiality in the
annotation system
The areas of epistemic modality and evidentiality are a matter of disagreement
in the literature, as regards the concept, the scope and the relations between
them. Concerning epistemic modality, the concept adopted here will be in line
with that used in work based on modal logic, concretely on the categories of
possibility or necessity. The types of modality usually distinguished within this
approach are the epistemic, the deontic and the dynamic (and less commonly
others such as boulomaic modality). This concept of modality is widely used in
the literature, as many references attest, such as Hermerén (1978), Palmer (1990),
Perkins (1983), Nuyts (2001), Wärnsby (2006) or Collins (2009).3 Accordingly,
epistemic modality may be deﬁned as the linguistic expression of the estimation
of the chances for a proposition to have been, be or become true (cf. Nuyts 2001:
21). The scope of epistemic modality in English includes expressions such as the
following: the modal auxiliaries in their epistemic senses (must, may, might,
will.. .); adverbials (perhaps, probably, certainly, no doubt. . .), lexical verbs (know,
believe, think. . .), adjectives (possible, probable, true. . .) and nouns (certainty,
probability. . .). This approach to epistemic modality is more restricted than that
of other proposals (Biber et al. 1999; Kärkkäinen 2003), which also include expres-
sions that qualify the speaker/writer (sp/wr)’s commitment to the reliability of
the information in diﬀerent ways from probability in the strict sense, such as
hedges of approximation (sort of, like. . .) or stance adverbials of degree (basically,
largely, absolutely). It is true that the distinction between these expressions and
3 In these references, modal logic is only the point of departure: the deﬁnitions of the modalities
are adapted to linguistics, and obviously modal expressions are treated in terms of their idio-
syncratic semantic and pragmatic features.
318 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
prototypical epistemic expressions is often blurred in actual language use (see,
for example, Carretero’s [2010] study of absolutely and its Spanish cognate abso-
lutamente). However, we believe that, for the purposes of annotating a corpus,
labels such as degree and approximation are best treated independently of
epistemic modality. Therefore, the selection for annotation is restricted to those
adverbials that have a semantic component of epistemic modality.
With regard to evidentiality, there is (by and large) agreement in the litera-
ture about its notional deﬁnition: evidentiality concerns the linguistic expression
of the kind, source and/or evaluation of the evidence for or against the truth
of the proposition that the sp/wr has at his/her disposal. However, this high
degree of consensus decreases when the scope of evidentiality is to be delimited
(Boye and Harder 2009: 11–14): a number of references treat evidentiality as a
grammatical phenomenon (Mithun 1986; Anderson 1986); others consider it as
a semantic category (Chafe 1986), and ﬁnally others opt for a more inclusive
view that does not discard cases in which evidentiality is pragmatically inferred
(Ifantidou 2001). We agree with this last reference and also with Boye and
Harder (2009) that the most inclusive approach has the advantage of oﬀering a
more comprehensive account of the role of evidentiality in language. But in
order to consider evidentiality in a similar way to epistemic modality, all the
adverbials selected have a component of evidentiality that has the status of a
semantic meaning and not of a conversational implicature.
At this point we must specify that we do not consider semantics and prag-
matics as clearcut levels of meaning, but rather as end-points of a continuum
made up of degrees of context dependence: epistemic modality and evidentiality
count as a semantic feature of a given adverbial when it is context-independent
or it occurs in a signiﬁcant number of contexts (which need not be the majority).
For example, the experiment done with perhaps and maybe led to the considera-
tion that the epistemic meaning is pervasive in all the contexts in which they
occur, while for possibly the epistemic meaning was found in some of the cases
but not in others. Similarly, evidently turned out to be evidential in all the cases,
while clearly was evidential in a substantial number of instances but not in
others. All these adverbials were included in our annotation.
Concerning the relationship between epistemic modality and evidentiality,
there has long been a controversial issue on whether they are best approached
as separate categories (de Haan 2000; Marín-Arrese 2004; Cornillie 2009) or as
domains that display a high degree of overlap in their linguistic expression
(Willett 1988; van der Auwera and Plungian 1998; Carretero 2004a). We believe
that the two categories have the common feature of assessing the reliability of
the information; in other words, they express the sp/wr’s commitment to the
Annotating English adverbials 319
truth of the proposition. This feature is also present in other categories that, as
we will see throughout the paper, overlap with epistemic modality, such as
degree or mirativity. However, epistemic modality and evidentiality are con-
ceptually diﬀerent in the way this reliability is assessed: in epistemic modality,
the assessment is carried out through the expression of probability, and in evi-
dentiality, through the speciﬁcation of the kind, source or evaluation of the
evidence for or against the truth of the proposition. In spite of this conceptual
diﬀerence, we hold the view that there is a high degree of overlap in their
linguistic expression, at least in English: there are expressions which have a
semantic feature that assesses the probability and another that assesses the
evidence. For example, the adverbials clearly, evidently and obviously have an
epistemic semantic feature of high degree of probability (in other words, certainty)
and an evidential semantic feature that points to the important role of the evidence
in the assessment of the reliability of the information. This second feature is
not present in other adverbials of certainty such as certainly or deﬁnitely (Simon-
Vandenbergen and Aijmer 2007). Another “epistential” adverbial is allegedly,
which has an evidential meaning of non-conclusive verbal evidence and an
epistemic meaning of lack of total certainty. In this case, it may be argued that
the evidential meaning is the primary one and the epistemic meaning is just
implicated, but in any case both meanings are pervasive across contexts and
consequently have the status of semantic features in this approach.
This coexistence of epistemic and evidential meanings should not be prob-
lematic to assume: a quick glance at dictionary deﬁnitions or attempts to design
the mental lexicon provides evidence that nearly all lexical items are described
in terms of combinations of several meanings linked by complex relationships.
Consequently, we believe that there is nothing odd about stating that certain
words or expressions have two semantic features that qualify the reliability of
the information, one epistemic and the other evidential.
However, in spite of our position about the relationship between the two
categories, we acknowledge that both may be treated separately for practical
purposes. In the research context of this paper, which is part of a larger project
that aims to provide schemes for annotating diverse categories in corpora (see
Section 1), we consider that the distinction between epistemic modality and evi-
dentiality as diﬀerent means to assess the reliability of the information is useful
for the stylistic characterization of the diverse texts of the corpora. Conse-
quently, we opted for annotating both categories separately: the label evidential
was assigned to those adverbials that have a semantic feature of evidentiality, no
matter whether they also have an epistemic meaning or not, while the label epis-
temic was assigned to the adverbials that do not have an evidential meaning.
320 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
3 Methodology and data
The design of an annotation scheme must start with the speciﬁcation of the
elements or items that are potential candidates for annotation. These are known
as markables. In the case of an annotation scheme for epistemic modality and
evidentiality, the markables are those categories mentioned in Section 2 which
are typically associated with the expression of epistemic modality and eviden-
tiality in English and other languages (verbs, nouns, adverbials, etc.). Due to
space limitations, this paper focuses only on the results obtained for the cate-
gory of adverbials.
The second step in the design of an annotation scheme involves a deﬁni-
tion of the possible tags that can be assigned to the markables. When dealing
with the annotation of epistemic modality and evidentiality, the ﬁrst and most
basic tagging distinguishes between Epistemic and Non-epistemic expressions,
or between Evidential and Non-evidential expressions. Classifying expressions
in this binary way might seem a trivial task, but this is far from true. As previous
studies have shown (Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer 2007; Byloo, Kastein and
Nuyts 2007; Maíz and Arús 2008; Tucker 2001; Hoye 1997; Swan 1988), and as
will be shown throughout the remainder of this paper, the delimitation of modal
and evidential categories is a rather complex issue.
For the present study, a list of potential markables was designed with the
aim of exploring the limits of both epistemic modality and evidentiality. Starting
with prototypical adverbials of these categories found in the literature, new
adverbials were selected due to their semantic connection with them. These
additions were obtained with the help of dictionaries and thesauri. As was
stated in Section 2, all the selected adverbials have an epistemic or evidential
semantic component. The list of adverbials analyzed does not intend to be
exhaustive; rather, the paper aims to provide sample analyses of epistemic and
evidential adverbials of diﬀerent types. Due to the extensive list of markables in-
volved in the study, it was found convenient to break them down into more
manageable groups, so that they were divided into the following broad categories:
– Epistemic adverbials of probability and possibility: conceivably, impossibly,
improbably, in all likelihood, in all probability, likely, maybe, perhaps, plausibly,
possibly, predictably, probably.
– Epistemic adverbials of certainty: assuredly, certainly, deﬁnitely, positively,
surely, undeniably, unquestionably.
– Evidential adverbials: apparently, clearly, evidently, obviously, plainly.
Other kinds of adverbials that might have been included are epistemic adver-
bials of reality (actually, genuinely, in fact, in reality, really. . .) and a number of
Annotating English adverbials 321
adverbials that do not have propositional scope but might be argued to be evi-
dential or to have evidential uses (distinctly, manifestly, visibly). These kinds of
adverbials will not be analyzed here for reasons of space.
Before proceeding to the analysis of the adverbials in each group, a pre-
liminary study based on the references mentioned above was carried out in
order to distinguish semantic factors that might have an inﬂuence on the anno-
tation from pragmatic factors which were to be ignored but could well be dis-
tractors in the actual annotation. After the preliminary study, the authors started
by annotating 20 examples of each markable. The level of acceptability was set
in a percentage of 10% errors (i.e. a maximum of 2 errors in this experiment was
acceptable, so that the criteria followed could be considered as valid for further
annotation). If the level of agreement was not acceptable, the criteria for anno-
tation were revised and a second experiment was carried out with 30 examples.
If the agreement was still not satisfactory, the criteria were revised again and a
third experiment was done with 35 examples. These diﬀerent stages of the anno-
tation process are schematized in Figure 1. In a few cases, the second or the
third annotation experiment was carried out even with acceptable agreement to
ensure the reliability of the criteria or to test new criteria set in the discussion of
the results. The examples used in the annotation experiments were collected
from the Brigham Young University version of the British National Corpus, avail-
able online at http://corpus.byu.edu/bnc/. Each group is dealt with separately
in Sections 4, 5 and 6.
Figure 1: Methodology: steps of the annotation process
4 Annotation of the adverbials of probability
4.1 Preliminary considerations
Under this category we have included those adverbials that express an estima-
tion of the chances that an utterance is true which is lower than total certainty.
This estimation varies from high probability (in all probability, in all likelihood)
322 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
through medium probability ( probably, likely, plausibly. . .) to low probability
(maybe, perhaps, possibly, conceivably. . .).
Probability adverbials can be considered as prototypical epistemic expres-
sions: most deﬁnitions of epistemic modality in the literature are particularly
relevant to their central meanings (see Nuyts 2001, 2005, for instance); addition-
ally, they are always comments normally deriving from the sp/wr, to the point
that they cannot be interpreted as adverbials of manner. That is, in an utterance
like He’ll probably do it slowly the adverbial probably can never refer to the way
in which the referent of “he” will do it, as is the case of slowly.
During the preliminary study, a number of issues were solved. The ﬁrst was
the distinction between epistemic modality and other modalities (deontic and
dynamic). Deontic modality may be deﬁned, in a parallel way to the deﬁnition
of epistemic modality proposed in Section 2, as the set of meanings that belong
to the possibility-necessity axis in terms of social or institutional laws (Perkins
1983; van der Auwera and Plungian 1998). The main deontic meanings are
obligation, recommendation, permission and prohibition. In its turn, dynamic
modality may be deﬁned as the set of meanings that belong to the possibility-
necessity axis and are determined by natural circumstances, which may or may
not be inherent to a person or another entity. The main meanings included in
dynamic modality are inevitability, tendency, ability and (lack of) potentiality due
to internal properties of an entity or else to circumstantial properties (Zamorano-
Mansilla and Carretero 2010). (1)–(3) are examples of possibly with epistemic,
deontic and dynamic meaning respectively.
(1) When he knocked, Jessica was lying on her bed lying on her bed. She was
calm, her breathing even, she had possibly dozed oﬀ at some time, a
thought she found quite odd. She got. (BNC HTS)
(2) “This is a small cadeau for you, ma petite,” he said. “I happened to see
it on my way back from the nursing-home and I thought it would go
particularly well with the dress.” Alice unwrapped the parcel with a sense
of unease. If this was jewellery, she could not possibly accept it, no matter
how appropriate it might be for the gown she was wearing. (BNC FS1)
(3) So remember to treat yourselves, perhaps slowly saving up and buying
a present for yourself or doing things you enjoy, as rewards for your
achievements. How Long Will it Take? Nobody could possibly oﬀer a
deﬁnite answer to this and say how long it may take to fully overcome
anxiety and stress problems. (BNC EB1)
Annotating English adverbials 323
A case in point is generic statements, which commonly occur with some adver-
bials such as maybe, perhaps and possibly (4). These statements have the diﬃculty
that, on the one hand, they express epistemic modality, since there is some
probability for the event to occur in each individual case, and on the other they
may be considered as dynamic, in the sense that the meaning of weak tendency
is also expressed (Zamorano-Mansilla and Carretero 2010: 314–315). In cases
such as this, the adverbial may be roughly paraphrased with an adverbial of
frequency such as sometimes or in certain cases. For the annotation of generic
cases, we decided to rely on the semantics of each adverbial as a whole: maybe
and perhaps do not display dynamic modality apart from these cases, and there-
fore we have decided to consider them as epistemic. However, possibly displays
other cases of dynamic modality apart from these, and hence the generic cases
are considered as merger between epistemic and dynamic modality.
(4) “Many companies are placing their main focus on the opportunities for
intro-European trading after 1992 and rightly so. However, at British
Airways Cargo it is the global implications of the Single Market which
are receiving most attention,” says Peter White. He continues: “Currently,
major manufacturers from the United States and Asia tend to have two or
maybe three plants in Europe.” (BNC AMH)
Other uses discussed were those in which these adverbials have meanings
close to those of neighbouring semantic categories, such as approximation or
opinion. In (5), probably could well be replaced by an adverbial of approxima-
tion such as about or approximately. However, the meaning of probability cannot
be said to be eliminated: approximation means lack of exact knowledge about a
quantity, so that in these contexts the meanings of probability and approxima-
tion may well be considered to be neutralized. These cases will be considered as
epistemic.
(5) The most I have played at one time is probably seven hours and it
becomes agonising, it tightens your arm up terribly. (BNC K4T)
More complex is the relationship between the meanings of probability and
opinion. Opinion means lack of objective truth; statements that qualify as a
matter of opinion are non-veriﬁable. The contrast between the use of epistemic
expressions in veriﬁable statements and in opinions is illustrated in (6)–(7). (6)
is a veriﬁable statement, since it concerns limitation of knowledge, and this
occurrence of maybe is prototypically epistemic in that it serves the sp/wr to
indicate that the content of the utterance is not completely reliable, due to poor
324 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
memory or any other problem related to knowledge and certainty. However, (7)
is a non-veriﬁable statement: probably is not prototypically epistemic here, in
that it does not primarily indicate a proper estimation of probability; instead,
probably mainly serves interpersonal functions, such as the expression of tact
and consideration of other possible viewpoints; that is, its use may be con-
sidered to be largely due to reasons of politeness.
(6) Don’t know. Go and look for it for me then? Oh mum! Maybe it’s in the
utility. I don’t want to. (BNC KE4)
(7) I wished he’d had the same conﬁdence in front of audiences because he
was probably the most talented actor of us all. (BNC A2Y)
The category opinion is semantically signalled by adverbials such as arguably,
in my opinion, in my view or to my mind. However, the use of adverbials of opinion
such as arguably occurs in what might be considered as veriﬁable statements
(8). This example and (7) above lead to the observation that epistemic adverbials
and adverbials of opinion may be used interchangeably, which indicates that the
distinction between opinions and veriﬁable statements, in spite of its impor-
tance in some aspects of life such as scientiﬁc research or legal matters, is not
always made clear in the everyday use of language.
(8) Keith, the department head, is keeping quiet, but makes it plain that the
second half of June is his, arguably having something to do with his
secretary, Debbie, and a certain destination in Latin America. (BNC ASD)
Concerning opinion, our decision was to exclude this factor from considera-
tion in the annotation system. On the one hand, the boundaries between veriﬁ-
ability and non-veriﬁability are not always clear. For example, even though (7) is
a matter of opinion, the existence of prestigious awards such as the Oscars hints
that acting talent is somehow perceived as measurable, so that (7) might be
considered to be veriﬁable in a sense. In other cases, many statements are theo-
retically veriﬁable but their veriﬁcation is unlikely to take place. This is the case
of (9), in which the truth of the statement that colossal waste is the real reason
for Hollywood’s dominance in the cinema industry is diﬃcult to prove. There-
fore, the adverbials listed in this section will be considered as epistemic in the
annotation even if they are used in non-veriﬁable statements mainly for reasons
of politeness.
Annotating English adverbials 325
(9) The cinema industry has always thrived, or survived, on colossal waste,
the worst-kept secret of the American ﬁlm industry, if not of the American
economy in general, and probably the real reason for the continued and
apparently unshakable worldwide dominance of Hollywood. (BNC FB8)
The presence of politeness overtones in the use of these adverbials is not
restricted to the expression of opinion. In (10)–(11), it is evident that limitation
of knowledge cannot be the main motivation for inserting the adverbial maybe.
The content of these utterances does not lend itself to an estimation of their
reliability, since it involves action and personal views rather than the transmis-
sion of information. Instead, the function of maybe can more accurately be
described as indicating low assertiveness on the sp/wr’s part. Low assertiveness
is a rather general notion that applies to diﬀerent types of utterances with diﬀer-
ent eﬀects: in utterances that are mainly about the transmission of information
and predictions, epistemic expressions genuinely mean probability; on the other
hand, in utterances that propose a course of action, epistemic expressions have
a more vague eﬀect of enhancing or lowering assertiveness, depending on their
strength. In English-speaking cultures, this lowering of assertiveness is com-
monly associated with politeness. In fact, this use of epistemic adverbials is so
conventionalized in English that dictionaries often refer to it. For example, the
Cambridge Learner’s Dictionary describes a use of maybe as “used to politely
suggest or ask for something”, and accompanies this description with the exam-
ples Maybe Ted would like to go and Maybe we should start again.4
(10) What I was gonna ask you actually erm or maybe I should ask Jean,
I don’t know erm. (BNC KBD)
(11) “Maybe you should spend the night here with us,” Mum suggested.
(BNC CHR)
The annotation of these adverbials as non-epistemic in such cases was con-
sidered. Nevertheless, a view of a larger number of examples led to the thought
that, in actual language, the detection of lowering assertiveness as the main
reason for using these adverbials would be far from easy: in (12), perhaps could
well express genuine doubt about the best course of action for the referent of he
to take, or else serve to mitigate an impolite thought (for instance, that he is a
nuisance to work with). Consequently, the decision was made to annotate the
adverbials as epistemic even in the case in which their use was perceived to be
due to the sp/wr’s wish to lower assertiveness.
(12) Perhaps it’s for the best if he did take an early retirement. (BNC EF1)
4 http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/british/maybe?q=maybe accessed May 15, 2012.
326 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
The last point of the discussion were the occurrences in which the most
important reason for using these adverbials is not to indicate a degree of proba-
bility, but to express a concessive relationship between the clause in which they
occur and another clause. In some of these cases, the context indicates that the
sp/wr does not have any doubt about the truth of the proposition (13), while in
others the maintenance of the epistemic meaning is not clear (14). In view of this
context-dependence, we decided not to distinguish the cases in which the adver-
bials express concession from the others.
(13) When asked to sum up how he sees himself as a manager, Miller replies:
As a player, maybe I wasn’t the best. I know that. But the managers I
played for all said I was the best professional. (BNC K5J)
(14) “I honestly don’t think he ever gave us anything. I’ve never held it against
him, but I’ve always wondered why. I think he must have just looked at us
as guys who could take care of themselves, no problem. “Maybe it was a
compliment, though I’m sure the odd Cadillac wouldn’t have gone amiss.
Did the band actually split up? (BNC C9L)
To sum up this section, the following decisions were made: 1) to annotate
the examples of generic statements with adverbs of probability as epistemic or
as cases of merger between epistemic and dynamic modality, depending on the
general semantics of each adverb; and 2) to annotate as epistemic those cases
associated with other meanings such as approximation and opinion, and those
in which the adverbials seem to be used mainly as downtoners of assertiveness
or to express interclausal concessive relationships.
4.2 Pure epistemic probability
Among the adverbials listed in the category of probability, the following produced
total agreement between the annotators (100% of cases annotated as epistemic):
probably, likely, in all likelihood, in all probability, maybe and perhaps. Conse-
quently, these adverbials are suitable for automatic annotation as epistemic.
4.3 Probability combined with other categories
Unlike the adverbials listed in 4.2., those treated in this subsection have other
meanings apart from the epistemic. For their annotation, the criteria established
in 4.1. were applied: the epistemic cases that showed closeness with the mean-
ings of approximation and opinion, and those in which the adverbials seem to
Annotating English adverbials 327
be used mainly as downtoners of assertiveness or to express concessive relation-
ships, were to be labelled straightforwardly as epistemic. However, these adver-
bials displayed cases whose meaning is clearly non-epistemic. In this respect,
each adverbial has its own idiosyncrasy and for this reason it has been treated
individually.
4.3.1 Possibly
As was seen in 4.1., this adverbial can convey epistemic, deontic and dynamic
modality. Tucker (2001) makes a distinction between the instances in which
possibly is paraphraseable by perhaps/maybe, which he calls “possibly1”, and
those in which this paraphrase is not possible, which he calls “possibly2”.
These meanings correspond to the epistemic and non-epistemic meanings in
our terminology. Even if the authors of this paper do not always agree with
Tucker’s interpretation of possibly in all the cases that he discusses, we acknowl-
edge that his study reveals the diﬃculties involved in the distinction between
the two meanings. This diﬃculty aﬀected the results of the ﬁrst experiment,
in which there was disagreement in 5 of the 20 occurrences of possibly (25%
of the total). This result agrees with another experiment (Zamorano-Mansilla
and Carretero 2010), for which 40 cases of possibly were annotated.5 In both
experiments, the cases that produced disagreement involving epistemic modality
may be divided into the following types:
A) Generic statements. There were a few errors in applying the criteria stated in
4.1. about this kind of statements.
B) Impossibility. In these cases, possibly was combined with the modals can
and could in negative sentences. The impossibility is clearly dynamic when
it is derived from natural circumstances and the sp/wr has no doubt about
it (15); however, in other cases it is indirectly inferred from evidence, so that
it could be considered as epistemic (16). Not all the cases are distinguish-
able: for example, in (17) it could be interpreted that the speaker knows for
sure about his impossibility to do a career in the police, or that he infers it
from the facts that he knows. For ease of annotation, we decided to consider
all the cases of can and could with negative sentences as dynamic (non-
epistemic).
5 In this experiment, possibly and other expressions were annotated in terms of the labels
epistemic, deontic and dynamic. The distinction between deontic and dynamic modality turned
out to be the most problematic, but the problems involved in this distinction do not aﬀect the
annotation of epistemic modality and consequently will not be treated in this paper.
328 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
(15) A lot of people don’t want to be in the best band in the world because they
don’t give a shit about themselves, he remarks ﬂatly, still playing with his
half empty bottle of water. I can’t possibly understand that. I want to be
in the best band in the world, it’s simple! (BNC C9L)
(16) His car was found with bloodstains on the steering-wheel. “He couldn’t
possibly do a thing like that,” his best friend said. (BNC H7A)
(17) He smiled and I felt the hairs on the back of my neck go rigid. “You’ve got
a devious mind, Mr Angel. Ever thought of a career in the police?” “Blue’s
not my colour.” “I’ve heard worse reasons.” “I can’t possibly be tall
enough.” “They’re very ﬂexible about that nowadays.” (BNC HTL)
C) Speculative questions about possibility. This kind of questions, an example
of which is (18), could be interpreted as questions about naturally possible
reasons (dynamic), or as speculative questions whose answer neither the
sp/wr nor the addressee know (epistemic). As a criterion for facilitating
agreement, these cases were considered as dynamic.
(18) But Mill considers what, what reasons could there possibly be for having
this two stage process. (BNC HUF)
Given that the level of agreement reached in the ﬁrst experiment was lower
than 90%, a second experiment was done, with the result of only 3 out of 30
cases of disagreement (10% of the total number of examples annotated). In one
of these cases (19), the implicitly negative word only changes modality from
weak to strong in an analogous way to negative polarity. Consequently, it was
agreed that occurrences with only with can / could possibly were to be classiﬁed
as dynamic.
(19) The important point about its location is that Cyprus has no wild cats
and this means that the animal must have been brought over to the island
by the early human settlers. We know that they brought other domestic
animals with them but it is inconceivable that they would have taken a
wild cat from the mainland. A spitting, scratching, panic-stricken wild
feline would have been the last kind of boat-companion they would have
wanted. Only tame, domesticated animals could possibly have been part
of the goods and chattels of that early band of pioneers, striking out for a
new island home. It seems almost certain, therefore, that cats had already
been tamed and domesticated on the nearby mainland by 6000 B.C., and
we should not be too surprised by this. (BNC BMG)
Annotating English adverbials 329
In order to test this new criterion, a third experiment was carried out, with
only 2 out of 35 cases of disagreement. That is to say, the agreement reached a
level of 94.29% of the cases.
4.3.2 Conceivably
Most of the occurrences of conceivably express dynamic and epistemic modality,
while no clear cases of deontic modality were found. In the majority of the
examples, conceivably occurs in combination with the modals may, might and
could.
In the ﬁrst experiment there was disagreement in only one case, since both
annotators identiﬁed virtually all examples as epistemic. Subsequent discussion
and consultation of dictionaries led to the observation that conceivably resembles
possibly to a higher extent than maybe or perhaps: for instance, conceivably com-
bined with negative can or could yields impossibility. The annotation criteria were
drastically changed in order to correct the annotators’ overuse of the annotation
as epistemic. The resulting criteria are the following:
– The cases in which conceivably does not occur with a modal auxiliary are to
be classiﬁed as epistemic:
(20) the most likely year for Holy River therefore seems to be 1026, or
conceivably, if operations were protracted, 1025. (BNC GTF)
– All the non-generic occurrences of conceivably with may and with might
(21) are also classiﬁed as epistemic:
(21) or he may conceivably have acted the part himself, for money he
appeared to need, and plenty. (BNC ABF)
– Cases of impossibility are to be classiﬁed as dynamic:
(22) on the grounds that no reasonable jury properly directed could
conceivably ﬁnd er a anything other than reasonableness in the police
acting upon the information they had. (BNC EEM)
– Generic statements are to be classiﬁed as both epistemic and dynamic (non-
epistemic), in the same way as with possibly:
330 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
(23) When the radio is switched on, this voltage, stored on C1, is temporarily
let loose on the circuitry, where it could conceivably do some damage.
After a moment, of course, the voltage subsides to its on-load value, which
is smaller. (BNC C92)
– In non-generic cases of conceivably combined with can or could, the adver-
bial serves to reinforce the same kind of modality as that expressed by the
modal. This consideration is in line with Hoye’s (1997) view that this adver-
bial intensiﬁes the meaning of the modal, even if his consideration is
restricted to non-assertive contexts (1997: 176, 233–236). For example, (24)
was classiﬁed as non-epistemic, since the use of could is dynamic (the
company would not disappear with the reduction of staﬀ):
(24) Digital Equipment Corp chief executive Robert Palmer expects to see some
“modest reductions” in the company’s workforce next ﬁscal, adding that
the company could conceivably downsize to 85,000 to 90,000 employees.
(BNC CM2)
A second experiment took place. Not surprisingly, due to the higher com-
plexity of the new criteria, the proportion of cases of disagreement increased,
totalling 6 out of 30 (20% of the total). However, these occurrences were not
problematic, since they all were accommodated in the criteria set above: we
will only mention a case of could only conceivably, which was ﬁnally considered
as dynamic, in an analogous way to only with could possibly in (19) above. The
third experiment with 35 examples was carried out, and the rate of agreement
was exactly the same as that of the third experiment with possibly (33 occur-
rences –94.29%), so that the criteria may be considered satisfactory as a means
to ensure agreement in further annotation.
4.3.3 Plausibly
Among the dictionaries consulted, plausibly is best described in the entry for
plausible in the Merriam-Webster dictionary:6
1. superﬁcially fair, reasonable, or valuable but often specious <a plausible
pretext>;
2. superﬁcially pleasing or persuasive <a swindler. . . , then a quack, then a
smooth, plausible gentleman – R. W. Emerson>
3. appearing worthy of belief <the argument was both powerful and plausible>
6 http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/plausible, accessed 19-5-2012.
Annotating English adverbials 331
The epistemic senses are 1) and 3). Concerning the ﬁrst experiment with
plausibly, the cases of disagreement are 9 out of a total of 20. There was agree-
ment about the epistemicity of 4 cases, in which plausibly is used as a stance
adverbial applied to the truth of the proposition (25). In 3 of these cases, plausibly
is combined with an epistemic modal (26):
(25) The larger troops, plausibly, were developed as protection from diurnal
predators. (BNC AMG)
(26) Genet joined these movements because asked by them to do so. But
he made it clear that, in these identiﬁcations, desire and politics were
inseparable. That might plausibly be thought to take us no further than
Wilde in Algiers in 1895: “The beggars here have proﬁles, so the problem
of poverty is easily solved” (Wilde, More Letters, 129). (BNC A6D)
Seven cases were classiﬁed unanimously as non-epistemic. In some of them
plausibly expresses a meaning of manner (“in a credible way”) with no epistemic
implications, as in (27), in which plausibly is applied to the credibility of a false
situation. In other cases, plausibly refers to the adequacy of a word or expres-
sion for an entity or situation (28). The modality may well be considered as
merger between deontic and dynamic modality: there is an element of reason-
ability and common sense (deontic) but this element is dependent on adequacy
to natural circumstances (dynamic), that is, on how reality actually is. Con-
sequently, the modality is non-epistemic.
(27) He knew they would just love to arrange a little’ accident’ with some
spanner or brick falling from a building, or, more plausibly still, from
some scaﬀolding. So he had worn that hard hat, since even before he left
the home. (BNC H7F)
(28) The novel can plausibly be labelled science ﬁction by virtue of the fact
that it takes place in the future and involves “alien” life forms. (BNC G1N)
Concerning the cases of disagreement, 7 out of the 9 occurrences concerned the
reasonability of a statement made by someone else. The verb is most often one
of verbal process (argue, propose, say, suggest, etc.). In these cases, the use of
plausibly means epistemic modality on the part of the sp/wr; however, this
modality does not aﬀect the proposition in which plausibly occurs, but the
following proposition: in (29), plausibly does not qualify the statement that the
332 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
proposal has been made, but the statement that the “blame” rests with Queens-
land sugar planters. We decided to consider these cases as epistemic, since the
proposition within the epistemic scope of plausibly is explicit. The two remain-
ing cases of disagreement were occurrences in which plausibly refers to the
adequacy of a word or expression for an entity or situation, as in (28) above.
(29) It has been proposed, for example – entirely plausibly – that the “blame”
rests with Queensland sugar planters. (BNC AMS)
The second experiment had a result of 4 out of 30 cases of disagreement (13.33%):
these cases were easy to solve, since one involved a generic utterance and the
other 3 referred to statements from a diﬀerent source from the sp/wr. In the third
experiment, the cases of disagreement were only 2 out of 35 (94.29%), so that,
once again, the criteria were considered to be satisfactory.
4.3.4 Predictably
This adverbial means agreement that a state or event occurred according to ex-
pectations (30); this meaning might be considered as mirative.7 An experiment
was carried out in case epistemic examples were found; the only doubtful case
was (31), in which predictably may be interpreted as giving an epistemic qualiﬁ-
cation about the results of attempting growth to maturity. However, it might also
refer to the fact that the real solution is the expected one. Since no clear cases of
epistemic modality were found among the 20 examples, we decided to exclude
this adverbial from the scope of epistemic modality in the annotation system.
(30) Informants were asked to circle the ﬁrst SF element in the passage. Quite
predictably there was unanimous agreement on the keyword “Martian.”
(BNC J7F)
(31) One of my arguments is that the mechanical relations of work can bring
about this withdrawal. The real solution, predictably, is to attempt growth
to maturity, i.e., “relationships of mature dependence in equal partnership”
(Guntrip 1961). (BNC CBH)
7 In the literature, mirativity is often limited to disagreement with expectations. For example,
DeLancey (2001: 369–370) deﬁnes it as “the linguistic marking of an utterance as conveying
information which is new or unexpected to the speaker”. We believe that a more complete
approach to mirativity may be achieved if it is considered as a two-sided category that com-
prises the linguistic marking of both agreement and disagreement with expectations.
Annotating English adverbials 333
4.3.5 Improbably
Improbably is most often used as an adverbial of mirativity that expresses sur-
prise or incredulity about propositions which are presented as true without any
doubt, such as (32), although it may also be an epistemic expression that indi-
cates that the sp/wr regards the state or event as unlikely to happen (33). In the
initial experiment, improbably displayed 4 cases of disagreement (25%); two
of these cases had the collocation however improbably (34). These occurrences
could be considered as generic statements, similar to those described with
perhaps, maybe, possibly and conceivably: improbably refers to the unlikelihood
for something to happen whenever certain kind of situation holds. Consequently,
these cases are to be annotated as epistemic-dynamic. Nevertheless, the colloca-
tion however improbably does not always occur in generic statements: the other
occurrence found in the experiment, (35), was unanimously classiﬁed as non-
epistemic (it may be paraphrased with unbelievably). The remaining two cases
of disagreement might be considered as past improbability, but it was agreed
that they really expressed unexpectedness.
(32) and suddenly, improbably, out the thawing wind came the snow.
(BNC EX4)
(33) Mr Parretti paid $1.3 billion for MGM. If – most improbably – that ﬁgure
still holds good, 40% would mean around $500m. (BNC AKL)
(34) Suppose that, however improbably, a balanced slate could nevertheless
be agreed on in one party. It is a safe bet that the other parties in conten-
tion would not make the same mistake. (BNC EW4)
(35) Nine times out of 10, however improbably, he turns out to be right.
(BNC AHC)
Consequently, it was decided that the default annotation for improbably
should be non-epistemic, but that special attention should be paid to the in-
stances of most improbably, as well as to those of however improbably to see if
they are generic. These criteria proved to be eﬀective, since the second experi-
ment, with 30 further examples, displayed agreement in 100% of the cases.
4.3.6 Impossibly
This adverbial indicates counter-expectation, in a similar way to unbelievably
and to the non-epistemic meaning of improbably (see above), although it is
perhaps more oriented towards dynamic modality, in that the role of natural
334 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
circumstances is more prominent. There is even the sense that the unnaturalness
makes things or facts not practical, as in (36), in which the length of the poems
makes them impossible to memorize. Signiﬁcantly, its scope is limited to an
adjective in most cases. All the occurrences were classiﬁed by both annotators as
non-epistemic, except for (37), which was unanimously annotated as epistemic,
probably due to its reference to a potential fact that might occur in the future.
(36) He would never understand how she could memorize all those complex,
impossibly long poems, yet forget the words of a simple song. (BNC ACW)
(37) Nor was a reckoning with her grandfather’s shade the only she knew that
the ordeal to come must tax all her strength and, not impossibly, exceed
it. (BNC H82)
In order to detect possible epistemic occurrences of impossibly, a search was
made on not impossibly, which occurs in 3 out of a total of 188 cases of impossi-
bly in the BNC. The only epistemic case was (37) above: in the other cases, the
negation applies to the mirative meaning (38). Additionally, a search of possible
epistemic occurrences was made on the collocations however impossibly, most
impossibly and more impossibly. Only one example of the last collocation was
found, with a non-epistemic meaning.
(38) Even so, together with the problems at Ely, they may reﬂect a somewhat
hostile attitude to Cnut in this area, perhaps exploited by Thorkell, its earl,
who was banished in 1021. Not impossibly there was a resistance move-
ment in the Fens, as later under William the Conqueror, and ecclesiastics
became involved. (BNC HXX)
Epistemic cases are, thus, reduced to a subset of the uncommon collocation not
impossibly. Due to this scarcity, the decision was made to discard this adverbial
from the annotation system of epistemic modality.
5 Annotation of the adverbials of certainty
5.1 Preliminary considerations
In a similar way to the procedure followed for the adverbials of probability, and
in order to guarantee inter-annotator agreement, a preliminary study of these
adverbials was carried out before their annotation so as to disentangle the
Annotating English adverbials 335
semantic meaning of certainty from pragmatic and discourse factors derived
from it. These factors were found to be even more important for certainty than
for probability. The reason is that certainty is a high, or even absolute, estima-
tion of the chances for a proposition to have been, be or become true; however,
we must remember that the unmarked way to express total certainty is by means
of unmodalized sentences. More than once, the literature on modality has raised
the question whether adverbials of certainty increase or decrease the degree of
certainty in comparison to unmodalized clauses. Halliday and Matthiessen
(2004: 147) state that “even a high value modal [. . .] is less determinate than a
polar form: that’s certainly John is less certain than that’s John [. . .] In other
words, you only say you are certain when you are not” (2004: 147). A similar
position is set forth in Lyons (1977: 808–809). However, Hoye (1997: 60–61)
states that this position is contrary to intuition: adverbials of certainty reinforce
the sp/wr’s commitment to what s/he states.
We believe that neither of these positions is fully satisfactory: the strength-
ening or weakening eﬀect on adverbials of certainty depends on both the indi-
vidual adverbial and the context in which it occurs. Among the adverbials of
certainty mentioned above, no doubt and surely have a semantic meaning of
high but not total certainty (Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer 2007: 145), so that
they always express a slightly lower degree of certainty than that of the un-
modalized clause. The rest of the adverbials can express both total and non-total
certainty; these adverbials reinforce the certainty when the context makes it
clear that the sp/wr knows the truth of the proposition (39), and slightly weaken
it in other contexts, especially when they co-occur with other expressions of
epistemic modality or irrealis, as is the case with future states of aﬀairs (40).
(39) Did you know Jos in those days, Grandma? “Certainly I did”, she said.
(BNC ACV)
(40) But the action was swiftly denounced by the radical Popular Front move-
ment of Azerbaijan, which has supported the two-month blockade aimed
at starving Armenia into capitulating on the issue. There will certainly be
a strike across the republic if the military takes over the railway, said the
movement’s spokesman, Nazim Ragimov. (BNC A2M)
What is clearly the case for both total and almost total certainty is that these
adverbials, like other expressions of certainty, are used when the sp/wr con-
siders it necessary to lay emphasis on certainty, so as to be persuasive (and
sometimes manipulative). In this sense, we must remember that these adverbials
are commonly found “in precisely those areas where speakers have something
336 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
to gain or lose by their addressee’s acceptance or rejection of what they are
saying” (Corum 1975: 134). The use of a certainty adverbial seems pragmatically
inadequate in veriﬁable statements if there is evidence at the addressee’s dis-
posal that leaves no room for doubt (41) or s/he has no reason to question the
truth of the proposition (42).
(41) ?You are certainly wearing a spotted blouse.
(42) ?My grandma’s name is certainly Rosa.
Consequently, expressions of certainty are often used with pragmatic moti-
vations apart from the wish to express an estimation of (almost) certainty that
the proposition has been, is or will become true. It might be stated that these
motivations have a factor in common: all of them indicate a high degree of
conﬁdence on the part of the sp/wr towards the content of the utterance. Their
epistemic meaning is bleached and not so clearly distinguished from the cate-
gories which point to the rising of assertiveness. We will mention some of
them, together with adverbials associated with them: degree (absolutely, totally),
opinion (unanimously), mirativity (of course), high evidentiality (evidently), inten-
tion (some uses of decidedly), etc. It may be easily seen that these categories by
and large coincide with the categories which were shown in 4.1. to be bleached
with expressions of probability in the sense that they are downtoners of asser-
tiveness. A case of this bleach is (43), in which the epistemic adverbial certainly
and the degree adverbial absolutely may be considered to have the same func-
tion, namely that of laying emphasis to the aﬃrmative polarity of the answer to
a question (Carretero 2010: 218).
(43) But with all due respect is some of that not to do with the guidance their
[sic] receiving from us as teachers? Certainly, I I’ve told you Absolutely!
(BNC F7F)
This pragmatic force of strengthening the sp/wr’s conﬁdence, often at the
expense of a bleach of the epistemic meaning, has consequences for the use
of certainty adverbials in speech acts. For example, the default interpretation
of (44) is a promise, and this illocutionary force is maintained if we replace
assuredly with other adverbials of certainty listed above, such as certainly or
for sure; however, if we replace it with probably, the default interpretation is a
predictive statement (i.e. the sp/wr would state that he is not totally sure that
they will meet soon again). In its turn, the clause without the adverbial (we shall
meet again soon) is indeterminate in this respect, lying in between a promise
Annotating English adverbials 337
and a prediction. That is to say, epistemic adverbials of possibility or probability
favour the interpretation of utterances about future states or events as predic-
tions, i.e. representative speech acts, while adverbials of certainty favour the
reading as a promises (commissive speech acts).
(44) He scrambled to his feet, clutching the books to his chest. “It’s been a
pleasure seeing you again, Oﬃcer,” said Melissa. “Assuredly, we shall
meet again soon!” he said meaningfully and marched out, bowing to
Iris as he passed. (BNC GVP)
This possibility for the adverbials of certainty to have their epistemic mean-
ing bleached into a more general meaning of rising assertiveness has contributed
to their use for a number of speech acts and discourse functions, apart from
promises. Some of these functions are: to reinforce the positive polarity of re-
sponses, which lay emphasis on agreement with the addressee (45) or else rein-
force the sp/wr’s acceptance to comply with a request (46); and the expression
of concession (47).
(45) I talked to her about the 1931 crisis and said that I was convinced the
King had been a determinant inﬂuence on that occasion. Yes certainly;
he certainly was. (BNC A6G)
(46) Could I have a copy of the letter, please, can I take it up? You certainly
can, Anne, thank you. (BNC K51)
(47) It certainly was a challenge to have to teach people stuﬀ by Steve Vai
or Yngwie Malmsteen, but the most diﬃcult was Allan Holdsworth.
(BNC C9K)
Similarly to what happened with adverbials of probability, the epistemic
meaning of adverbials of certainty is also bleached in non-veriﬁable utterances
such as opinions (48). In these occurrences, even if the adverbials express cer-
tainty, the very fact that the statement is non-veriﬁable provokes a bleach
between certainty and a more general eﬀect of rising assertiveness, which has
interpersonal consequences. That is to say, an opinion expressed with a lower
level of conﬁdence is felt to be more tentative and tolerant of the interlocutor’s
view (as was stated in 4.1.), while a high degree of conﬁdence can be felt as
impolite and dogmatic in certain situations.
(48) Certainly the sequence is the most elaborately and intricately shaped of
all his poetry. (BNC EFX)
338 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
It must be noted that, among the adverbials of certainty, surely is perhaps
the one whose lexically encoded meaning most underdetermines its overall con-
tribution to the utterances in which it occurs. This is the reason why, as Downing
(2001: 253) states, it is almost never interchangeable with any other adverbial
of certainty. Downing (2001) treats surely in terms of evidentiality rather than
epistemic modality; however, this treatment is due to Downing’s ascription of
surely to the category of belief in Chafe’s (1986) broad approach to evidentiality,
which includes expressions such as I think, I believe or I suppose (Chafe 1986:
266). In our view, these are expressions of epistemic modality, since they indi-
cate an estimation of the chances for propositions to be true rather than the
role, kind and/or source of evidence on which the proposition is based.8 More-
over, Downing (2001: 255–256) characterizes surely as expressing: 1) a diﬀerence
in states of knowledge between the sp/wr and the addressee; 2) the sp/wr’s
belief that his/her state of knowledge, which corresponds to the statement
marked by surely, is “the only true, reasonable or acceptable one”; 3) the antici-
pation of fracturing of the common ground if the addressee does not accept
the statement. It is the second feature that motivates our consideration of surely
as an epistemic adverbial: features 1) and 3) have an inﬂuence on the pragmatic
eﬀects provoked by surely, which make this adverbial diﬀerent in usage from
other adverbials of certainty, but do not prevent it from being epistemic. It might
be argued that the degree of certainty is not so high in certain contexts, such as
self-questionings (Downing 2001: 261), but we believe that this weakening is not
suﬃcient to set these examples apart from the rest (49).
(49) It was probably some arrangement of S- and R-’s, but whenever I came
into a room where they were, they trickled out! After a time it got me
down, this continued evasion of me, it was like a form of torture. I began
to wonder if I had halitosis or a snotty nose, or green eyes, or a squint –
surely I am not so unattractive! (BNC ASC)
As for undeniably and unquestionably, their diﬀerence with undoubtedly is
largely restricted to the literal meaning: undoubtedly denies an epistemic state
of doubt, while undeniably and unquestionably point to the non-adequacy of
the hypothetical speech acts of denying and questioning. However, to state that
8 In the literature, these expressions are often classiﬁed as “inferential evidentials”, i.e. expres-
sions that indicate that the source of the reliability of the information is a reasoning process. In
line with van der Auwera and Plungian (1998), we believe that inferential evidentiality overlaps
with epistemic modality.
Annotating English adverbials 339
something cannot be denied or questioned is tantamount to state that some-
thing is true. It is not surprising that the three adverbials are mutually para-
phraseable: for instance, in (50) undeniably could be paraphrased by either of
the other two adverbials.
(50) There are, of course, complex social and cultural factors to consider. It is
a common leftist belief that poetry is an “élitist” mode, precisely because
of the cultural literacy it presupposes, which gives an unfair advantage
to students from middle-class homes with books. The advantage is
undeniably there; but what of the ever-increasing number from middle-
class homes without books? (BNC A1A)9
To conclude this section, we consider that the bleach of the epistemic mean-
ing of certainty into a more general meaning of rising assertiveness does not
provoke the total loss of the epistemic meaning, so that it will not be considered
in the design of the annotation system. This consideration is in line with the
inclusion of the adverbials of probability as epistemic even when their episte-
micity is bleached into a more general meaning of lowering assertiveness or
overridden by the performance of certain discourse functions. That is to say, the
pragmatic and discourse functions signalled above are not incompatible with
the meaning of certainty; rather, they derive from it. For example, we do not
share Byloo, Kastein and Nuyts’s (2007) distinction between epistemic and
“strengthening” uses of adverbials of certainty. Even if we agree that concession
is a diﬀerent meaning from certainty, it is clear that, in the case of these adver-
bials, certainty is a way to lay emphasis on concession and consequently both
meanings are not only compatible, but even support each other. In (47), for
instance, certainly expresses certainty that the clause in which it occurs is true,
precisely with the aim of highlighting that the truth of this clause, in contrast to
what might be expected, is compatible with the truth of the second clause.
5.2 Pure epistemic certainty
Under this category we have included those adverbials that, after the preliminary
discussion, were unanimously annotated as epistemic in all the cases. These
9 Indisputably and unarguably could also be considered as epistemic, in the sense that they
mean impossibility of alternative opinions, which also implicates that the proposition is true.
However, their negative polarity contrasts does not contrast with weaker epistemic expressions,
but with weaker expressions of opinion such as arguably. Consequently, in our view, their
analysis as adverbials of opinion is more suitable.
340 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
adverbials are assuredly, certainly, doubtlessly, for sure, no doubt, surely, un-
deniably, undoubtedly and unquestionably. Consequently, they are suitable for
automatic annotation in the system.
5.3 Certainty combined with other meanings
The adverbials of certainty treated in this subsection, decidedly, deﬁnitely and
positively, have a meaning of manner apart from the epistemic. Diachronically,
this meaning is prior to the epistemic meaning.10 These adverbials, especially
deﬁnitely, behave like the adverbials treated in 5.2. in that their meaning of
certainty is bleached into a more general meaning of rising assertiveness when
they perform certain speech acts or discourse functions: for example, deﬁnitely
in (51) expresses a promise. These cases are considered as epistemic.
(51) The injury has totally cleared up and responded well to matches and I will
deﬁnitely be as good as I ever was. (BNC CBG)
5.3.1 Decidedly
This adverbial has an epistemic meaning (52) and a meaning of manner (53).
Apart from these clear cases, there are others in which decidedly has a gradable
Adjectival or Adverbial Group under its scope. In these occurrences, the epis-
temic meaning may be considered as merged with another of intensity: in (54),
decidedly not only means that the ﬂavour of the play is modern without any
doubt, but also that it is very modern. None of the dictionaries consulted in-
cluded intensity; consequently, these cases were classiﬁed straightforwardly as
epistemic.
(52) And the sheet with which he now tussled? Decidedly not the one she
knew had been bought only recently from Laura Ashley. (BNC G1S)
(53) “And will you stay here at Bishopstow? Or will you sell up?” She said
decidedly, “I shall stay.” (BNC H8X)
10 Certainly also has its origins in an adverbial of manner, but this meaning does not seem to
remain in contemporary English, or only in a residual way: no examples with this meaning
were found in our experiments, nor do Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer (2007) register this
meaning in present-day English.
Annotating English adverbials 341
(54) the translation by David Johnston (for The Gate Theatre) goes on to
incorporate a great many deliberate anachronisms which give the play
a decidedly modern ﬂavour. (BNC K4Y)
In the ﬁrst experiment, the annotators agreed in all the cases, which leads to
infer that the meaning of manner is clearly distinguishable from the epistemic
meaning.
5.3.2 Deﬁnitely
This adverbial has a meaning of certainty and another of manner, “in a deﬁnite
way”. The diﬃculty to distinguish these meanings may be seen in dictionary
entries: for example, the Cambridge Dictionary11 and the Macmillan English Dic-
tionary for Advanced Learners (2002) describe its meaning simply as “without
any doubt”. The distinction between both meanings is far from clear in all the
cases. In fact, they are strongly linked, as is stated in Simon-Vandenbergen and
Aijmer (2007: 101):
The modal meaning “it is certain” is clearly linked with “it has been decided deﬁnitely”.
The emergence of the modal meaning of deﬁnitely seems to be explicable as follows:
when it occurs as a manner adverbial with such verbs as say, prove, decide (which it fre-
quently does), it signals that the results of these processes are to be taken as permanent,
not to be detracted from. If something is deﬁnite, it is not to be changed. If you can say/
prove/decide something deﬁnitely (manner) then it is deﬁnitely the case (epistemic). We
see a movement of deﬁnitely from objective to subjective certitude.
Not surprisingly, the ﬁrst experiment had a result of disagreement in 8 cases
out of 20 (40%). 10 out of the 12 cases of agreement were clearly epistemic:
these are short responses to statements, or else qualiﬁcations about statements
that do not concern the sp/wr or the addressee and do not express or report
decisions by the sp/wr, the addressee or a third party (55). The remaining 2
cases, one of which is (56), were classiﬁed as non-epistemic: both refer to a
ﬁrm decision already made, and are not paraphraseable with certainly like the
epistemic cases, but with ﬁnally.
(55) Eating sand rice and stone peas, drinking small quantities of an unknown
sticky orange substance, stopping oﬀ for re-fuelling at most airports in
the world, taking crazed detours to Nowhereland through Afghanistan,
Pakistan, India, Iran, Saudi Arabia, what seemed like Iceland and what
deﬁnitely was Cuba, . . . (BNC FBL)
11 http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/british/deﬁnitely, accessed May 20, 2012.
342 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
(56) Very few projects are deﬁnitely approved, with the Space Telescope the
major exception. (B7N)
The 8 occurrences that showed disagreement illustrate the fuzzy boundaries
between manner and certainty. These cases may be divided into the following
types:
A) Cases which report a decision by the sp/wr, the addressee or a third party, but
admit the paraphrase with certainly. These occurrences are not prototypical
cases of epistemic modality (i.e. they are not qualiﬁcations about degree of
certainty in the strict sense), since the truth of the proposition is controlled
by a person (in these cases, the sp/wr). Some of these occurrences are
responses to directives (57) or involve mental or verbal processes carried
out by the sp/wr (58). These cases have been ﬁnally classiﬁed as epistemic,
in accordance with the analysis of similar cases of certainly (see above).
(57) Shut up gonna kill you with their massive great big swords Yeah
deﬁnitely. But if he’s gonna ﬁght me I’ll ﬁght him. (BNC KPX)
(58) I mean, well we clearly have general interest but we don’t have primary
interest, additionally in Russia is that everybody, in the world have interest
but I would deﬁnitely here say that Britain should clearly do nothing per
(unclear). (BNC KJS)
B) Cases in which the scope of deﬁnitely is an Adjectival or Adverbial Group
(59). It may be argued that deﬁnitely refers to the manner in which the quality
is present in the entity concerned. These cases could be considered as merger
between manner and certainty, since, as has been stated above, a quality that
is present in a deﬁnite manner provokes certainty that this quality exists.
For ease of annotation, these cases have been considered as epistemic.
(59) This ﬁnding is borne out by a study by Weinrich-Haste (1986) which found
that, while some subjects were rated by schoolchildren and undergraduates
as deﬁnitely masculine, and some as neutral, none was rated as deﬁnitely
feminine. (BNC FA6)
To sum up, the decision was made to annotate deﬁnitely as epistemic by
default, except for the clearest cases of manner, which may be identiﬁed by the
following features: a) paraphraseability by ﬁnally, while its replacement with
certainly would provoke a semantic change; b) emphasis on the ﬁrmness of
voluntary decisions; and c) tendency to occur with verbal processes (approve,
say, state, decide).
Annotating English adverbials 343
In the second experiment, the rate of agreement increased signiﬁcantly, with
only 1 case of disagreement out of 30 (96.67%). Consequently, the criteria speciﬁed
above were considered as satisfactory.
5.3.3 Positively
This adverbial has two meanings: manner “in a favourable way” (60), and cer-
tainty (61). Positively displayed some cases (although not so many as decidedly)
with a gradable Adjectival or Adverbial Group under its scope, such as (62).
Once again, the epistemic meaning may be considered as merged with a mean-
ing of intensity: in (62), positively emphasizes the certainty that the people con-
cerned were attracted by controversy, and also that this attraction was strong.
Since the dictionaries consulted did not specify any meanings of degree, the
decision was made to annotate these examples as epistemic.
(60) A white hole enthusiast may react to the above criticism both positively
and negatively. (BNC B74)
(61) What are the two colours used in the Ellesse half tennis ball logo on its
clothes and shoes? Positively Pilkington Nelson Has One Eye on Seniors.
(BNC A0V)
(62) The third group consists of those who were positively attracted by the
controversy. (BNC AD2)
The result of the ﬁrst experiment was 3 cases of disagreement out of 20
(15%). It was agreed that in all of them positively could be replaced by certainly,
and consequently they were to be annotated as epistemic. In the second experi-
ment, there were 2 cases of disagreement out of 30, so that agreement reached
93.33% of the cases. Even if the degree of agreement is satisfactory, the existence
of some cases of disagreement provides evidence that the meanings of certainty
and manner are not so easy to distinguish as the meanings of decidedly: the
reason is, probably, that decidedly of manner focuses on the resolute attitude of
the agent in carrying out the action, while positively tends to express an evalua-
tion of the proposition as a whole rather than focusing on one participant.
6 Annotation of the evidential adverbials
6.1 Preliminary considerations for all the evidential adverbials
The evidential adverbials treated in this paper have a meaning of manner, which,
in our view, is not incompatible with their evidential meaning. For example,
344 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
clearly in (63) expresses manner (the improvement took place in a perceivable
way) but also evidentiality (this perceivable way provides important evidence
in favour of the truth of the proposition). However, as we will see in 6.2., some
of these adverbials have occurrences that mean manner but not evidentiality. A
test for detecting evidentiality is paraphraseability by “it + BE + cognate adjec-
tive (or synonym) + that”. This test proves that clearly in (63) is evidential, since
the paraphrase by “it is clear that good practice has improved. . .” is possible.
However, (64) is a non-evidential occurrence of clearly, since this paraphrase
provokes a change of meaning.
(63) Despite its limitations, the project has done something to open up the
question of study skills, develop in service structures and practices,
create a core of schools where good practice has been established and
from which it might be disseminated, and has clearly improved secondary
school library provision through (amongst other things) the quality of
book selection. (BNC EV3)
(64) The message was being clearly expressed that the students were increas-
ingly dissatisﬁed with the Deng-led regime. (BNC CG0)
As was stated in Section 3, the study of the evidential adverbials carried out
here will be restricted to clause-oriented adverbials. According to Huddleston
and Pullum (2002: 575–578), these adverbials diﬀer from VP-oriented adverbials
in that they are not infrequent in front position and have prosodic detachment.
The evidential adverbials included in our analysis are apparently, clearly, evi-
dently, obviously and plainly.
6.1.1 A discussion on obviously
Obviously is, perhaps, the adverbial of this kind that deserves the most careful
consideration. For a start, the dictionary deﬁnitions do not make it clear whether
it has a non-evidential meaning of manner or not. The deﬁnitions often remind
the non-evidential meaning of clearly in that they refer to clarity for people to
see or understand something, but the examples they oﬀer are evidential. This
may be seen, for instance, in the entry of the Macmillan English Dictionary for
Advanced Learners (2002), which describes its meaning as “in a way that is clear
for almost anyone to see or understand”.
Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer (2007: 148–149) do distinguish evidential
and manner uses, and state that the manner uses can be identiﬁed because
Annotating English adverbials 345
they are preceded by words such as so, more and too, and that initial position is
virtually restricted to the evidential adverbial. However, we believe that none of
the examples that they classify as manner are non-evidential, since they can all
be interpreted in the sense “it is obvious that”; in certain cases, the paraphrase
is not easy, but the reasons are syntactic rather than semantic. For example, in
(65), quoted in this reference from the ICE-GB, the speaker uses glaringly obvi-
ously in the sense “it is glaringly obvious that it is missing”. This agrees with
the fact that, in our annotation experiments, no examples were found of obvi-
ously with a non-evidential meaning of manner.
(65) Uhm is there anything that you noticed that is glaringly obviously
missing. (ICE-GB)
Another issue to be considered about obviously is the overlap between evi-
dentiality and mirativity: this adverbial has been reported to indicate, in certain
cases, agreement with expectations, in a similar way to of course or naturally,
rather than strong basis on evidence (see, for instance, Simon-Vandenbergen
and Aijmer 2007). On the one hand, there are many clearly evidential cases
in which obviously focuses on the strength of the (often explicit) evidence, in
which its replacement with adverbials such as of course or naturally would be
inadequate or would provoke a change of focus from evidence to agreement
with expectations (66). However, there are other cases of obviously in which,
unlike the other evidential adverbials included in this section, it is paraphrase-
able with of course, as in (67). In other cases, both evidence and agreement with
expectations seem to play a role. This is the case of (68), in which the estimation
that the proposition is true is based on the writer’s previous experience on horse
riding as well as common sense.
(66) These combined to produce a situation where users unable to obtain
prescribed drugs began to develop other strategies for “coming oﬀ” such
as the purchase of street methadone mentioned above. The ﬁnal factor
concerns the idea that “being known” should be avoided at all costs.
Obviously, because the possession of heroin is illegal, users must
maintain a low proﬁle for fear of legal sanctions. (BNC EDC)
(67) I am in regular contact with the programmer, who is using the “functional
speciﬁcation” to come to a fuller technical speciﬁcation which we will
agree. Obviously I will send this to both of you and if David is back in
England at an appropriate time he might like to join me in discussions
with the programmer. (BNC AP1)
346 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
(68) A lot of people say that you shouldn’t hack young horses out on their own
for months, if at all, but I’ve always preferred the theory that if horses
don’t learn to go out alone from the start you set up problems for later on.
Obviously you need to take your horse’s temperament and your surround-
ings into account, but if you can get him working alone as soon as possible
you are less likely to have to cope with him napping later on because he
can’t bear to leave his friends. (BNC ASH)
Given the interplay between evidence and agreement with expectations,
together with the high frequency of obviously, the decision to annotate each
occurrence as either evidential or non-evidential depending on the relative
weight of each of these factors would provoke slowness and higher rates of
disagreement in the annotation process. Moreover, there are arguments for char-
acterizing obviously as evidential in all the cases. Simon-Vandenbergen and
Aijmer (2007: 153) state that obviously indicates evidence based on common
sense (“a common frame of reference, a shared knowledge of the world, shared
attitudes”) when there is no explicit evidence, and from their examples it may
be inferred that this characterization is applied to the cases in which obviously
gets closer to mirativity. Additionally, in a later part of the book (2007: 312) in
which obviously is compared with of course, they state that “[. . .] obviously pri-
marily expresses “as evidence shows” and only secondarily “as we all know”
in some contexts”, and specify that this diﬀerence can be seen in the speech
acts of granting requests (2007: 313). To this explanation we would add a
pragmatic implication triggered by this semantic diﬀerence: granting requests
is compatible with the meaning of expectation, and of course in this kind of
speech acts indicates that the request is granted in accordance with (what the
sp/wr believes are or should be) the addressee’s expectations, so that the
request is polite, as in (69). Obviously in its place would sound pragmatically
inadequate: its evidential meaning is at odds with the expression of authority
required for permission granting, and consequently it would trigger the impli-
catures that the addressee had evidence available at her disposal in favour of
the permission and that this evidence should have led to the inference that the
permission was granted, so that the request is out of place.
(69) George felt uncomfortable at this declaration, especially as it was made
in a steady and unemotional voice, far removed from the previous frantic
outburst on the day she had left the farm., I just want you to know that I
shall never change, but I also want you to allow me to come home now
and again for a few days.I shall not act foolishly again. “Of course you
can come home, Sarah,” he answered. (BNC C98)
Annotating English adverbials 347
In view of what has been stated above, we decided to consider all these cases of
obviously as evidential, in principle. In any case, the ﬁrst experiment was to be
done in order to see whether there were unexpected non-evidential occurrences
(for example, similar to those of non-evidential clearly), which turned out not to
be the case.
6.2 Pure evidential adverbials
Among the adverbials listed as clause-oriented evidentials, evidently and obviously
displayed total agreement in the ﬁrst experiment: all the cases were considered
as evidential by both annotators, and therefore they can be automatically
marked as such.
6.3 Adverbials of evidentiality coexisting with other meanings
The adverbials of this subsection did not display total agreement in the ﬁrst
experiment; consequently, each will be considered individually in terms of
annotation criteria.
6.3.1 Apparently
The dictionaries consulted characterize the meaning of apparently as used for
saying that something seems to be true according to evidence, but it is not cer-
tain. In the ﬁrst experiment, both annotators considered 18 out of 20 examples
unanimously as epistemic. One example, (70), was annotated unanimously as
non-epistemic, and there was disagreement about another. These cases were
annotated as non-epistemic because they referred to a proposition that, contrary
to appearances, is not true:
(70) Keegan, who ten days ago was boss of an apparently invincible Geordie
side, said: “I know what people are thinking, but the only diﬀerence
between our defeat at Leicester on Saturday and our early season results
was that we gave away a silly goal.” (BNC CEP)
In a subsequent discussion, we concluded that apparently is evidential in these
cases. The epistemic meaning of lack of certainty is not context-independent,
but has the status of a Generalized Conversational Implicature, that is to say, a
348 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
conversational implicature generated by default in all cases except those in
which the context blocks it or there is contrary evidence to it (Levinson 2000:
11; Carretero 2004b: 68). The falsehood of the proposition does not mean that
the adverbial loses its evidential meaning. Therefore, the decision was made
to consider apparently as evidential in all the cases, so that it joins the list of
evidential adverbs suitable for automatic treatment, together with evidently and
obviously.
6.3.2 Clearly
As was seen in the discussion of the examples in 6.1., clearly has an evidential
meaning as well as a meaning of manner. In the ﬁrst experiment, there were
4 cases of disagreement out of 20 (20%). 3 of them turned out to be non-
evidential, while the fourth case, (71), is doubtful: the interpretations “the
tokens of particular and actualized instances must be set in a clear way. . .”
(manner) and “it is clear that the tokens of particular and actualized instances
must be set. . .” (evidential) are both possible; in fact, they could even be con-
sidered to merge: the diﬀerence is neutralized from the pragmatic point of
view, since the main aim of the sp/wr is to communicate the necessity to set
these tokens in correspondence with their conventional meanings.
(71) The conventional meaning of linguistic signs, and their combinations in
sentences, constitutes types of conceptualization codiﬁed as linguistic
knowledge and the tokens of particular and actualized instances must
clearly be set in correspondence with them. (BNC CBR)
Before embarking on the second experiment, we insisted on the detection of
non-evidential clearly by considering the kind of process expressed by the verb.
According to Simon-Vandenbergen and Aijmer (2007: 163), non-evidential clearly
commonly occurs with the following semantic kinds of verbs: mental processes
of perception (see, hear. . .) or of cognition (understand); verbal processes of say-
ing (express, say, state), as in (64) above, cited again as (72), or of deﬁning or
classifying (deﬁne, classify); and processes of showing (show, indicate, illustrate).
Non-evidential clearly also combines with adjectives having these meanings,
as in (73). In these cases, clearly indicates that the way in which the process is
performed facilitates good perception, so that misunderstandings are avoided.
We decided to annotate as evidential the cases in which the distinction between
evidential and non-evidential meanings is unclear as (71) above.
Annotating English adverbials 349
(72) The message was being clearly expressed that the students were increas-
ingly dissatisﬁed with the Deng-led regime. (BNC CG0)
(73) The rabbits mostly came in of their own accord. The few that remained
squatted out in the open or tucked themselves into tiny holes, often with
their hindquarters clearly visible. (BNC BNY)
In the second experiment, the cases of agreement were 29 out of 30
(96.67%), so that the reﬁned criteria were considered to be satisfactory for
further annotation.
6.3.3 Plainly
Plainly has evidential and non-evidential meanings similar to those of clearly,
illustrated by (74) and (75) respectively. In addition, it has another non-evidential
meaning, “in a simple way, without much ornament” (76). The non-evidential
examples display the same features as those of clearly: for example, in (75),
putting the facts refers to a verbal action.
(74) Because the taxi should not have been there, the car-driver expected it to
move – even though it plainly could not. (BNC CR7)
(75) He set to again, putting the facts as plainly as he could, though doubted
that these words would save Estabrook’s life. (BNC CRE)
(76) “Do you want to see the castle?” a plainly dressed girl of ﬁfteen asked me,
looking up from her job of sweeping her trailer entrance with a broom.
(BNC ADM)
In the ﬁrst experiment, there was agreement in 19 cases out of 20 (95%), so
that there was no need to do a second experiment. The case of disagreement was
(77), which resembles (71) above: the interpretations “the terms state in a plain
way. . .” (manner) and “it is plain that the terms state. . .” (evidential) are both
possible, and may be considered to merge, the main point being that the terms
leave no doubt that the carrier has contractual remedies against a subcontractor.
(77) Therefore, the terms of any subcontract should be very carefully drafted.
The terms plainly state that the carrier has contractual remedies against a
subcontractor. (BNC CDP)
350 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
7 A synoptic view of the annotation system
This section provides a synoptic view of the design of the annotation system
proposed in this paper. Throughout the preceding sections, some adverbials have
been considered to be epistemic or evidential in all the cases; consequently, they
may be annotated automatically. These expressions are listed in Table 1. Other
adverbials, however, are epistemic or evidential in certain occurrences but not
in others, so that each case is to be examined individually. Table 2 speciﬁes the
adverbials of this kind that belong to the category of probability, together with
the non-epistemic meanings that each adverbial can express and the main criteria
to be applied for the annotation in each case. The adverbs of epistemic certainty
and evidentiality are treated in the same way in Tables 3 and 4, respectively.
Table 1: Epistemic and evidential adverbials suitable for automatic annotation
Category Adverbials
Epistemic probability in all probability, in all likelihood, likely (adverbial),
maybe, perhaps, probably.
Epistemic certainty assuredly, certainly, doubtlessly, for sure, no doubt,
undeniably, undoubtedly, unquestionably.
Evidentiality (clause-oriented adverbials) apparently, evidently, obviously.
Table 2: Adverbials of epistemic probability whose occurrences have to be considered indi-
vidually, non-epistemic categories and main criteria for annotation
Adverbials Non-epistemic categories Criteria for annotation
possibly, conceivably – deontic and dynamic modality – Combination with modal
auxiliaries: same modality for
both expressions.
– Generic cases: epistemic + non-
epistemic.
– Impossibility: non-epistemic.
– Speculative questions: non-
epistemic.
plausibly – deontic and dynamic modality
– credibility with no epistemic
implications
– Combination with modal
auxiliaries: same modality for
both expressions.
can plausibly: reasonability (non-
epistemic)
– With verbal processes and the
scope aﬀecting the following
proposition: epistemic.
improbably – mirativity (surprise) – Epistemicity is restricted to some
cases of most improbably.
– however improbably: some
generic cases (epistemic + non-
epistemic).
Annotating English adverbials 351
Table 3: Adverbials of epistemic certainty whose occurrences have to be considered indivi-
dually, non-epistemic categories and main criteria for annotation
Adverbials Non-epistemic categories Criteria for annotation
decidedly manner – No special criteria (easy distinction).
deﬁnitely manner – Non-epistemic with 2 or 3 of the following features:
1) paraphraseability with ﬁnally;
2) emphasis on ﬁrmness of decisions;
3) occurrence with verbal processes.
positively manner – Contrast with negatively: non-epistemic.
Table 4: Clause-oriented evidential adverbials whose occurrences have to be considered indi-
vidually, non-evidential categories and main criteria for annotation
Adverbials Non-evidential categories Criteria for annotation
clearly – manner
(may co-occur with evidentality)
– Paraphraseability by “it + BE + clear +
that. . .”: evidential.
– Attention to the process of the verb:
mental processes of cognition and
perception and verbal processes
of saying tend to occur in non-
evidential cases. The same applies
to related adjectives.
plainly – manner1: “in a way that is easy to
perceive”
(may co-occur with evidentality);
– manner2: “simply, without much
ornament”
– The same as for clearly.
8 Conclusions
This paper proposes an annotation system for the categories of epistemic modal-
ity and evidentiality realized by a number of English adverbials, selected by the
criterion of the presence of an epistemic or evidential feature in a signiﬁcant
number of contexts, which could therefore be considered as semantic. Even
though we believe that epistemic modality and evidentiality have a high degree
of overlap in their linguistic expression, both categories have been separated for
practical purposes.
The design of this system met a number of diﬃculties, due to the semantic
and pragmatic fuzziness of both categories. The main distinctive feature of the
system is that the annotation rules proposed here take into account semantic
352 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
factors, while pragmatic factors are ignored for the sake of eﬃciency. The prag-
matic fuzziness of epistemic and (to a lesser extent) evidential adverbials is due
to the fact that the sp/wr’s main purpose for using these adverbials is often not
to provide an assessment to the reliability of the information, but to provoke a
more general eﬀect of rising or lowering assertiveness. This eﬀect can also be
created by linguistic expressions of other categories, such as degree, opinion or
mirativity, with the consequence that there is overlap in the use of expressions
belonging to all these categories. Related to this is the bleaching that epistemic
expressions undergo in certain contexts, such as non-veriﬁable statements,
promises or responses to statements and directives. In accordance with the deci-
sion to take semantics as the basis for the annotation system, and prior to doing
the experiments, it was agreed that these phenomena would not be considered
in the system.
From the semantic viewpoint, the epistemic and evidential meanings of the
adverbials concerned were often hard to disentangle from meanings belonging
to other categories such as deontic or dynamic modality, manner or mirativity
without epistemic implications. This fuzziness was considered in the annotation
system.
The annotation experiments carried out with the adverbials led to the con-
clusion that some adverbials could be considered as epistemic or evidential in
all the cases and are therefore suitable for automatic annotation, while other
adverbials were epistemic or evidential only in a subset of the occurrences, so
that an individual analysis of each example was needed. The adverbials were
subject to 1, 2 or 3 annotation experiments, depending on the degree of agree-
ment reached in each case; for all the adverbials, the annotation experiments
ﬁnally led to the establishment of criteria that made possible an acceptable
degree of agreement (90% or more) between the two annotators involved in the
experiments. Further research along these lines includes the enlargement of the
list of epistemic and evidential adverbials by means of thesauri, the additional
testing of the criteria by means of more annotation experiments including a
larger number of annotators, and the elaboration of similar annotation systems
for epistemic and evidential expressions of other syntactic or functional types,
such as VP-oriented evidential adverbials, lexical verbs, adjectives or nouns.
References
Anderson, Lloyd B. 1986. Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: Typologically regular
asymmetries. In: Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology, 273–312. Norwood: Ablex.
Annotating English adverbials 353
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edvard Finegan. 1999. Longman
Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Boye, Kasper and Peter Harder. 2009. Evidentiality: linguistic categories and grammaticaliza-
tion. Functions of Language 16(1): 9–43.
Byloo, Pieter, Richard Kastein and Jan Nuyts. 2007. On certainly and zeker. In: Mike Hannay and
Gerard J. Steen (eds.), Structural-functional Studies in English Grammar, 35–57. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Carretero, Marta. 2004a. The role of evidentiality and epistemic modality in three English
spoken texts from legal proceeedings. In: Juana I. Marín-Arrese (ed.), Perspectives on
Evidentiality and Modality, 25–62. Madrid: Editorial Complutense.
Carretero, Marta. 2004b. Levinson’s Presumptive meanings: a neo-Gricean approach to prag-
matics. In: Marta Carretero, Honesto Herrera-Soler, Gitte Kristiansen and Julia Lavid (eds.),
Estudios de lingüística aplicada a la comunicación, 65–80. Madrid: Universidad Com-
plutense.
Carretero, Marta. 2010. “You’re absolutely right”: a corpus-based contrastive analysis of abso-
lutely in British English and absolutamente in Peninsular Spanish, with special emphasis
on the relationship between degree and certainty. Languages in Contrast 10(2): 194–222.
Chafe, Wallace. 1986. Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In: Wallace
Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
261–272. Norwood: Ablex.
Collins, Peter. 2009. Modals and Quasi-modals in English. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Cornillie, Bert. 2009. Evidentiality and epistemic modality: On the close relationship between
two diﬀerent categories. Functions of Language 16(1): 44–62.
Corum, Claudia. 1975. A pragmatic analysis of parenthetic adjuncts. CLS 11: 133–141.
de Haan, Ferdinand. 2000. The relation between modality and evidentiality. Linguistische
Berichte. Sonderheft, 1–27. Hamburg: Helmut Buske Verlag.
DeLancey, Scott. 2001. The mirative and evidentiality. Journal of Pragmatics 33(3): 369–382.
Downing, Angela. 2001. “Surely you knew!” Surely as a marker of evidentiality and stance.
Functions of Language 8(2): 253–285.
Halliday, Michael A.K. and Christian M.I.M. Matthiessen. 2004. An Introduction to Functional
Grammar. Third edition. London: Arnold.
Hermerén, Lars. 1978. On Modality in English: the Study of the Semantics of the Modals. Lund:
Gleerup.
Hoye, Leo Francis. 1997. Modals and Adverbs in English. London and New York: Longman.
Huddleston, Rodney and Geoﬀrey K. Pullum. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English
Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ifantidou, Elly. 2001. Evidentials and Relevance. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Kärkkäinen, Elise. 2003. Epistemic Stance in English Conversation. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Lavid, Julia. 2008. CONTRASTES: An Online English-Spanish Textual Database for Contrastive
and Translation Learning. In: Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk, Barbara (ed.), Corpus Linguistics,
Computer Tools, and Applications – State of the Art, 431–443. Frankfurt: Peter Lang Verlag.
Lavid, Julia. 2012. Corpus Annotation in CONTRANOT: Linguistic and Methodological Challenges.
In: Isabel Moskowitz and Begoña Crespo (eds.), Encoding the Past: Decoding the Future:
Corpora in the 21st Century, 205–220. Newcastle-upon-Tyne: Cambridge Scholars.
354 Marta Carretero and Juan Rafael Zamorano-Mansilla
Lavid, Julia, Arús, Jorge and J.R Zamorano. 2010. Designing and exploiting a small online
English-Spanish parallel corpus for language teaching purposes. In: M. Carmen Campoy,
Begoña Belles-Fortuno and M. Lluisa Gea-Valor (eds.), Corpus-Based Approaches to
English Language Teaching, 138–148. London: Continuum.
Levinson, Stephen C. 2000. Presumptive Meanings. The Theory of Generalized Conversational
Implicature. London, U.K. and Cambridge, M.A.: MIT Press.
Lyons, John. 1977. Semantics, Volume 2. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Maíz, Carmen and Jorge Arús. 2008. Towards a diachronic study of modal adverbs: a case study
of certainly. Philologia 6: 27–36.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2004. Evidential and epistemic qualiﬁcations in the discourse of fact and
opinion. In: Juana I. Marín Arrese (ed.), Perspectives on Evidentiality and Modality, 153–
184. Madrid: Editorial Complutense.
Mithun, Marianne. 1986. Evidential diachrony in Northern Iroquoian. In: Wallace Chafe and
Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, 89–112.
Norwood: Ablex.
Nuyts, Jan. 2001. Epistemic Modality, Language and Conceptualization: A Cognitive-Pragmatic
Perspective. Amsterdam, Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Nuyts, Jan. 2005. The modal confusion: On terminology and the concepts behind it. In: Alex
Klinge and Henrik Høeg Müller (eds.), Modality: Studies in Form and Function, 5–38.
London: Equinox.
Palmer, Frank R. 1990 [1979]. Modality and the English Modals. London and New York: Longman.
Perkins, Michael R. 1983. Modal Expressions in English. London: Frances Pinter.
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie and Karin Aijmer. 2007. The Semantic Field of Modal Certainty.
A Corpus-based Study of English Adverbs. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Swan, Toril. 1988. Sentence Adverbials in English: a Synchronic and Diachronic Investigation.
Oslo: Novus Forlag.
Tucker, Gordon. 2001. Possibly alternative modality. Functions of Language 8(2): 183–216.
van der Auwera, Johan and Vladimir Plungian. 1998. Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic Typology
2: 79–124.
Wärnsby, Anna. 2006. (De)coding Modality. The Case of Must, May, Måste and Kan. (Lund Studies
in English 113). Lund: Lund University.
Willett, Thomas. 1988. A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticization of evidentiality. Studies
in Language 12(1): 51–97.
Zamorano-Mansilla, Juan Rafael and Carretero, Marta. 2010. An annotation scheme for dynamic
modality in English and Spanish. Linguistics and the Human Sciences 6(1)–6(3): 297–320.
Annotating English adverbials 355
IV Evidentiality and Modality in Discourse
Roberta Facchinetti
Modal verbs in news-related blogs:
When the blogger counts
The United States and its allies need Russia’s cooperation in the international arena. Russia is
and will remain a permanent member of the Security Council, which means that Washington
must work with Moscow if there are to be even minimally eﬀective multilateral responses to
the full range of “threats to international peace and security”, from Afghanistan to Iran and
Zimbabwe. We cannot “work around” this reality by championing a “concert of democracies”
as an alternative forum for legitimating decisive international action – an idea that will only
antagonize Russia (and China) without providing any strategic beneﬁt. (Corpus of News-
related Blogs, INBs_TWN20)
1 Aim and scope of the study
The text reported above is drawn from the Corpus of News-related Blogs com-
piled to analyze the language of this emerging textual type – blogs dealing
with news events –, which has augmented its visibility over the last two decades
though, so far, it has hardly been studied linguistically.
Speciﬁcally, the following set of questions will be addressed in the present
study. Once acknowledged that “all blogs are not made equal” (Kenix 2009:
815), is the textual type of News-related Blogs (NBs) to be bulked under one
single category or, in turn, are NBs to be diversiﬁed among themselves? And if
so, how? More speciﬁcally, to what extent does the professional identity of the
blogger count in shaping the posts? Do texts posted by professional journalists
voicing their media institution diﬀer from those written by independent / freelance
professionals or again by citizen-journalism bloggers? Most importantly for the
present research, considering that in news-related publications one linguistic
aspect diversifying reports from features and commentaries is the presence or
absence of modalized utterances, can modality be of help in answering the
questions above? How far are modalized constructs present in NBs? Indeed, con-
sidering the quotation above, one might be tempted to hastily conclude that
modal verbs in particular are prevalent, but only a deep-down analysis will
lead to evidence-grounded conclusions.
To address these questions, I will investigate a Corpus of News-related Blogs
focusing on an international news event occurred in August 2008, that is, the
Russo-Georgian war in the Caucasus region. The quantitative study will be inte-
grated by an analysis of the corpus data, with special reference to the central
modals will/would, can/could, must/should, and may/might. While it is not my
aim to discuss the semantic and pragmatic value of each and every modal
occurrence, the study primarily intends to foreground those aspects that may
help verifying how far, within the superordinate category of NBs, language –
and speciﬁcally modality – can be diversiﬁed on account of the diﬀering pro-
fessional backgrounds of the bloggers.
2 Latest research trends on modal constructs
Recent studies on modality focus on its logical aspects (John-Michael 2010) and
on taxonomic categorizations (Van linden and Verstraete 2011) only to a limited
extent; indeed, currently, the most treaded paths in the formal, semantic and
functional features of modal constructs largely pertain to three ﬁelds: (1) trans-
lation studies, (2) native vs. non-native language use, and (3) genre analysis.
The ﬁrst and most productive one focuses on the translation of modality
markers largely, though not exclusively, from the point of view of cross-cultural
pragmatics. So, for example, Kehayov, Lindström and Niit (2011) have dealt with
the imperative mood and the interrogative form in the Estonian subdialect
Kihnu, Latvian and Livonian on the one hand and in Standard Estonian on the
other. In turn, Chen, Chen and Chang (2011) have studied the speech acts of
complaining as realized and interpreted by American and Taiwanese university
students, with special attention to the strategies of opting out, interrogation,
accusation, request for repair, and threat. Henry and Ho (2010) have investigated
the English complaint speech act in Brunei Darussalam, in South East Asia,
where English is the second language. Finally, Xiang (2011) has discussed the
pragmatic particle lāh in Shishan, a dialect of Lingao of the Tai-Kadai language
family, and has related its functions to a number of Southeast Asian languages’
pragmatic particles, including Singapore English lor.
Half-away between this path of research and those studies focusing on
Second Language Acquisition is Espada-Gustilo (2011), who has investigated a
section of the Philippine component of the International Corpus of English to
describe the semantic functions of nine modals and verify if there are any fea-
tures in their use in the Philippine context that do not conform to the current
usage taught in the textbooks largely mirroring American and British usage.
Other scholars have studied the development of learners’ attention in the process-
ing of modalized utterances (Hondo 2012), sentence-processing strategies adopted
to express modalized tenses (Conroy and Cupples 2011) and the expression of
modal verbs in language varieties resulting from contacts with other substratum
languages, like Singapore English, strongly aﬀected by Chinese (Zhiming 2010).
360 Roberta Facchinetti
Finally, with reference to genre studies, scholars have concentrated on a
number of issues like the actualization of scientiﬁc writing and its popularized
form both in English and in other languages (Kranich 2011), the language of
court judgments in Hong Kong (Cheng and Sin 2011), and the modal semantics
of imperfective aspect in Badiaranke, spoken in Niger-Congo (Cover 2011). In
turn, Kanté (2010) has dealt with the use and the frequency of head nouns as
they are distributed along diﬀerent text genres, particularly academic and legal
texts, and has discussed their role as modal expressions allowing the writer to
mark stance in the text.
2.1 Recent studies of modality in newspaper discourse
Despite the ﬂourishing ﬁeld of genre studies, the way modal structures are
actualized in newspaper discourse, be it print or online, has not spurred a great
deal of research in the very recent past. Among the extant investigations, some
focus on the modalized language of newspapers within the broader ﬁeld of
pragmatic, socio-political and ideological issues. This is the case of Khan and
Govindasamy (2011), who discuss the discursive ﬁeld of Islamic militancy as it
is constructed in Bangladeshi print newspaper editorials. In their study, along
with a number of other discourse features, they focus on the modal verbs can/
could, may/might, should and on hedging devices like perhaps, possibly, surely,
and necessarily, along with their corresponding realization in the Bangla lan-
guage, exploited to express political leanings.
Others have taken a cross-cultural perspective, like Bonyadi (2011), who has
studied a corpus of editorials from The New York Times and Tehran Times; the
data show that (a) both papers prefer will and would to the other modals and
(b) when employing verbs of prediction and of necessity, the main concern of
American editorialists seems to be the identiﬁcation of what will happen in the
future, while Iranian ones appear to be more interested in what should be done.
Still dealing with commentaries, with special focus on newspaper sport
pages, Timuçin (2010) analyzes four passages of the following British tabloids
and broadsheets: The Telegraph, The Independent, The Times and The Guardian
as quality papers and The Express, The Daily Mail, The Sun, The Mirror, and The
Star as tabloids. The focus on a set of linguistic features, including modalized
utterances, highlights that tabloids exploit a more biased and involved language
than quality papers.
To my knowledge, little has been done so far to tackle modality in online
texts, with special reference to blogs; among the few studies, Chiluwa (2011) has
focused on the actualization of modality in Nolitics, a Nigerian online political
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 361
discussion forum providing an opportunity for social interaction and political
participation through new media technologies. Nolitics is hosted by NaijaPals,
whose members exchange information and engage in social analyses and criti-
cisms of Nigerian political performances. Chiluwa has analyzed 104 posts in the
framework of computer-mediated discourse analysis with insights and methods
from pragmatics. His ﬁndings show that discursive/pragmatic strategies like
modality, implicitness/implication, and directive speech acts function as a
means of mobilizing people towards political participation. They are also used
socially “as strategies for attacking corruption and political power abuse, initiat-
ing and practising political propaganda by politicians and as discourse tact of
preventing oﬀences” (Chiluwa 2011: 80).
Unfortunately, though, speciﬁc research on modality in online news-related
posts is still lacking. Indeed, the present paper intends to bridge this gap. To do
so, it is crucial to provide ﬁrst an overview of this textual type, which I intend to
investigate.
3 News-related blogs: An overview
Originally born as online personal diaries, blogs have now specialized and diver-
siﬁed their uses, so that they can be – also or exclusively – devoted to more
public-interest topics, such as news, politics, economics, sport, health or hobbies.
The range of bloggers has widened too, and now blogs are authored both by
“everyday people”, who provide content of their interest outside their main
professional activity, and by professionals and corporate organizations, whose
provision of content is part of their “business”. Among them, journalists and
media organizations have largely been attracted to this new format, due to its
popularity and ﬂexibility, while news-related blogs run by non-professionals
have been heralded as a new type of journalism, oﬀering a “radically diﬀerent
kind of news discourse than the one found in mainstream news media” (Haas
2005: 338).
Both argumentative and empirical studies have tried to give grounds to the
inevitable concerns and hopes generated by the news blogging phenomenon.
So, on the one hand, blogs reporting or commenting on news might fruitfully
function as the “watchdog on the watchdog” (Singer 2006: 28) and constitute
an alternative to mainstream journalism (Lasica 2002); in turn, in a more com-
plex way, they “could . . . be seen as a second tier to the news media system,
acting as a corrective and companion to the traditional news media” (Bruns
362 Roberta Facchinetti
2006: 18). On the other hand, by relying heavily on, amplifying and reproducing
the news provided by the major media organizations, blogs might actually
strengthen the voice of mainstream media (Kenix 2009). Eventually, mainstream
media might be even “normalizing” the blog format, by adopting and exploiting
it to their purposes.
So far, little or no investigation has been carried out on possible diﬀerences
among news-related blogs on the basis of their authors’ relation to journalism.
Hence, in the light of (a) the developments of the uses of blogs, (b) the above-
mentioned claims and arguments on their relationship with journalism, along-
side with (c) the lack of speciﬁc research focused on the diﬀerent status of the
bloggers, the present study of modality in news-related blogging also aims at
examining diﬀerences and similarities among news blogs in relation to the
world of journalism, with special attention to the professional background of
the writer.
4 The corpus
Bearing in mind that readers can encounter news by accessing any sort of web
source and blog (Gaber 2009: 42), be it a blog entirely devoted to international
news reporting or somebody’s personal blog narrating casual conversations, the
data constituting the Corpus of News-related Blogs have been selected on the
basis of the topic of the posts – namely a news event – rather than on the basis
of “news blogs” as a domain-speciﬁc sub-genre of blogs. Thus, the “blog post”
has been regarded as the unit of analysis, while the “news event” as the crite-
rion for retrieving the posts.
The selected news event is the August 2008 “South Ossetia War”, otherwise
called “Russo-Georgian War”, prompted by the South Ossetia and Abkhazia’s
declaration of independence from Georgia. This led Georgia to attack the two
regions between 7 and 8 August 2008, and Russia to invade Georgia as retalia-
tion, in support of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. After the intervention of the
European Union, the cease-ﬁre was declared and signed by Georgia and Russia
between August 15 and August 16.
The event has been chosen on account of its international scope, which
enables the widening up of the geographical provenance of the data. Blog posts
have been retrieved through keyword search on the main countries directly
involved in the conﬂict, i.e., Abkhazia, Georgia, Russia and South Ossetia. Key-
words were searched in English as follows:
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 363
(a) on specialized search engines for blogs, like Google Blogs, Technorati blogs
directory and Yahoo! Search Blog,
(b) on blog portals/providers such as WordPress and Metaﬁlter,
(c) on English language newspaper websites (through the Lexis-Nexis news-
paper database),
(d) by following the links to other blogs on any blog retrieved.
All blog entries posted from 1 to 31 August 2008 resulting from the search were
included, regardless not only of their blog domain type but also of their extent
of readership/popularity. The search has resulted in a total of 705 posts, pub-
lished in 65 diﬀerent blogs, totalling 424,129 words. The token count includes
the title and the body text of each post and excludes comments or default ﬁelds,
such as the date of posting and the name of the author.
4.1 Blog classiﬁcation
The classiﬁcation of the 65 blogs retrieved underwent a two-stage process.
Firstly, by relying on the self-description given by the blogger on the proﬁle
section of the blog, blogs were initially grouped into the following typologies:
– Mainstream media NBs (MNBs): blogs published on the websites of news
media organizations operating also oﬄine, such as print newspaper com-
panies and TV news broadcasters;
– Freelance NBs (FNBs): blogs published by professional journalists independ-
ently of any news media organization, that is, the blog is published inde-
pendently, while the blogger may also be writing elsewhere for some news
company;
– Citizen NBs (CNBs): blogs published by bloggers who are not professional
journalists.
This ﬁrst threefold grouping had to be re-categorized largely because a number
of blogs could hardly ﬁt any of the three groups. Such blogs gather multiple
authors, both journalists and non-journalists, who present themselves as an
organized entity, frequently as an online news outlet, with a detailed board of
editors, a mission, and given roles for each contributor. Since these blogs place
themselves somewhere in between MNBs and CNBs, it has been decided to
group them together with the FNBs. This “mixed” group, renamed Independent
NBs (INBs), thus collects all blogs that portray themselves as a form of indepen-
dent journalism, being authored either by freelance professional journalists
or by bloggers organized as an online independent media outlet. Therefore, the
resulting three-fold classiﬁcation considered for analysis is as follows:
364 Roberta Facchinetti
– Mainstream NBs (MNBs),
– Independent NBs (INBs),
– Citizen Blogs (CNBs).
The raw ﬁgures shown in Table 1 testify to a discrepancy between the three sub-
corpora, deriving from the fact that the web yielded much more data from INBs
than from CNBs and, even less, from MNBs.
Table 1: No. of blogs, posts and tokens retrieved
Blogs Posts Tokens
MNBs 26 104 63,620
INBs 21 343 250,548
CNBs 18 258 109,961
Total 65 705 424,129
Probably due to the language selected for the keyword search, most of the blogs
retrieved are US- and UK-based. However, the corpus includes also:
– international MNBs (e.g, those published on the International Herald Tribune,
Reuters, and Radio Free Europe, legally US-based but with a headquarter in
Prague, Czech Republic);
– MNBloggers corresponding from outside the country of the news media outlet
(e.g., The Times’ Paris correspondent Charles Bremner);
– INBs and CNBs blogging from the Caucasus area (e.g., Georgia in Crisis,
Registan, Nekka’s backlog);
– collectively-authored INBs gathering international contributors (e.g., Global
Voices Online, The Moderate Voice).
The data were analyzed in a previous study (Facchinetti 2012) so as to identify if
and to what extent the blogs from the three sections diﬀer from one another
with reference to the following aspects:
– frequency, distribution and typology of time adverbials, to address the
degree of timeliness of blog posts in hitting the headlines;
– frequency and distribution of ﬁrst and second-person pronouns, and their
related verbal predicates, in order to highlight the degree of interactivity.
In both cases, the ﬁgures showed a clear diﬀerence in results between MNBs on
the one hand and INBs and CNBs on the other, with MNBs exploiting time adver-
bials much more than the other two categories, particularly CNBs. Indeed, MNBs
exhibit an overwhelming majority of occurrences with speciﬁc time reference; in
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 365
contrast, INBs and CNBs were found to exploit less precise temporal patterns
and make a more limited use of numbers.
Moreover, in all three sections of the corpus the ﬁrst-person singular pro-
noun reference appears to be more frequent than the other forms, which is
indeed indicative of the personal style of the blog as a genre and which might
also suggest a move of professional journalists towards a more personalized
register when they blog. However, once again, overall, CNBs and INBs were
found to behave diﬀerently from MNBs, exhibiting a lower frequency of ﬁrst-
person singular pronouns I and me and, in turn, a higher frequency of second-
person you and ﬁrst-person plural us. This would indicate that CNBs and INBs
are less self-referential and more participative/interactive than MNBs. In con-
trast, MNBs exhibit a high degree of self-referentiality, in so far as the authors
refer more to themselves and less to their interlocutors. Particularly in MNBs
we witness a high frequency of verbs referring to past situations or past actions
carried out by those bloggers who report their personal experiences once back
from the conﬂict zones. Finally, both quantitatively and qualitatively, INBs
show a hybrid status, by placing themselves somehow in between the two ex-
tremes, since this type of blog shares features both with CNBs and with MNBs.
So, these news-related blogs appear to be diversiﬁed according to the writer
and the “channel” through which the blogger writes, be it mainstream, indepen-
dent, or – so to say – “personal”.
To complement the previous study, the present analysis of central modal
verbs has been carried out on the same corpus in order to highlight possible
diﬀerences in the distribution and use of modals in MNBs, INBs and CNBs; in
so doing, I intend to draw attention to further aspects typifying each section of
the corpus diﬀering on account of the professional background of the blogger.
5 Modality in news-related blogging
The corpus has been analyzed quantitatively by means of the software Word-
smith Tools 5.0, checking in the ﬁrst place the occurrence and frequency of the
modal verbs in each of the three subsections of the corpus. The quantitative data
illustrated in Table 2 below show a great similarity in distribution of the modal
verbs in each section of the corpus. Indeed, in all three, will, would, can, could,
and should occur in the same decreasing order,1 will being the most exploited
and should the least occurring. Moreover, in all three subcorpora, should occurs
more frequently than must.
1 The 0.1 diﬀerence in occurrence between should (14) and could (13.9) in CNBs has not been
deemed signiﬁcant.
366 Roberta Facchinetti
Table 2: Central modal verbs (frequency /10,000w)
MNBs INBs CNBs
WILL 33.3 30.9 34.6
WOULD 18.4 22.8 27.6
CAN 16.8 16.9 18.8
COULD 12.3 13.2 13.9
SHOULD 9.0 10.8 14.0
MUST 7.1 4.7 6.4
MAY 5.8 8.6 9.4
MIGHT 4.9 5.3 4.9
Total 107.5 113.3 129.5
Overall, tentative modals are exploited to a greater extent by INBs and CNBs
than by MNBs. So, would occurs much more frequently in CNBs (27.6) than in
MNBs (18.4), while INBs place themselves somehow in between. Similarly,
though with a less marked diﬀerence, could occurs more in CNBs (13.9) than in
MNBs (12.3), with INBs in between. Finally, should occurs in CNBs with a fre-
quency of 14 per 10,000 words, while only 9 in MNBs and 10.8 in INBs.
In turn, may and might occur the least in MNBs, while in INBs they are more
frequent than must; the same is for may in CNBs, while might exhibits the same
frequency as in MNBs. This preliminarily suggests the preference of INBs and
CNBs for modal markers indicating possibility rather than necessity (may more
than must) as opposed to MNBs.
The diﬀerence in distribution is less marked among the three subcorpora
with reference to the base forms of the modals; so, for example, while must is
more frequent in MNBs and the least frequent in INBs, may is most frequent in
CNBs and the least in MNBs; in turn, can exhibits virtually the same frequency
in MNBs and INBs (16.8 and 16.9 respectively) and it is most frequent in CNBs,
and ﬁnally will is most frequent in CNBs and least in INBs.
Overall, the data point to a gradually increasing occurrence of modal verbs
from MNBs to INBs and mostly CNBs and to a higher use of tentative and possi-
bility modals on the part of INBs as opposed to MNBs. I will now illustrate the
main ﬁndings in detail with reference to each modal verb, with special attention
to their semantic values.
5.1 Will and would
The modal verb will is exploited in all three subcorpora largely to indicate futurity,
the most frequent lexical verbs co-occurring with it being action verbs like
continue, celebrate, re-build, take, travel, and arrive, as in (1).
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 367
(1) Dallas left Souda Bay, Crete on Thursday with more than 76,000 pounds of
relief supplies and will arrive in Georgia within a week. (MNBs_FOX25)
The futurity value is sometimes accompanied by an epistemic overtone, though
such cases are statistically insigniﬁcant in the corpus and conﬁned to quota-
tions, that is, the blogger reporting remarks made by others:
(2) “They will be more careful,” says the head of Georgia’s Foundation for
Strategic and International Studies Alexander Rondeli. “They will be more
balancing. But because Russia revealed it’s (sic) inner essence and the DNA
of Soviet imperialism, now they will be very, very careful. “I think this was
the message to Georgia and then to others – that Russia is still the master
in the house and that everyone has to respect them.” (INBs_GIC22)
In turn, in all three sections of the corpus, would signals either tentativeness –
largely in patterns like I would say/add/love (3), mostly occurring in CNBs – or
the mere past/conditional form of will (4):
(3) I would love to see them do to the Georgian president what Amerikkka did
to President Saddam Hussein, and see what the US, NATO or the UN hypo-
crites say about it. (CNBs_BBCMM27)
(4) If it wasn’t for the help of the Russian Army here, there would be
thousands and thousands more victims. (MNBs_NYT22)
The screening of the will/would data in colligation with personal pronouns
shows similar distributions of the occurrences within each subcorpus, as in-
dicated in Figures 1, 2 and 3; indeed, in all subcorpora, I would recurs more
frequently than I will, suggesting the generalized tendency of the bloggers to
express themselves tentatively rather than to indicate their future actions.
Figure 1: Subjects collocating with will and would in MNBs (%)
368 Roberta Facchinetti
Figure 2: subjects collocating with will and would in INBs (%)
Figure 3: Subjects collocating with will and would in CNBs (%)
The discrepancy in frequency between the two phrases is highest in MNBs,
where no occurrence of I will is counterbalanced by six instances of I would
(5%), all expressing a tentative opinion:
(5) We have striven to be as impartial as possible in reporting this conﬂict.
But this has not been easy. As my colleague Jon Williams has blogged, it
has been diﬃcult for our reporters in the region to get a full picture of what
has been going on, though I would say they have been coping with those
diﬃculties very well. (MNBs_BBC22)
Moreover, in all three sections of the corpus will co-occurs more frequently with
we than with any other subject; this is due to the fact that, in the corpus, we is
generally exploited to refer to the inhabitants of the geographical areas at war or
to groups of personal witnesses, including reporters; hence, statements referring
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 369
to the situation in the area and to the future to be embraced by the countries
and populations are frequent. In contrast, would collocates mostly with I, where
the speaker, often the blogger, expresses his/her opinions, suggestions, remarks
in a more tentative way, as a reporter, an external observer, an inhabitant, or a
mere commentator.
Finally, in MNBs no occurrence of would has been recorded with you, while
the 2nd person subject occurs most in CNBs (2.3%), leading to a higher degree of
interactivity in this type of blogs:
(6) If you ever have been near dead humans by the dozens or hundreds (like I
have), you would understand why you have to bury them and bury them
quick. (MNBs_WtR2)
Similarly, 3rd person subjects, both with will and with would, are less exploited
in CNBs than in INBs and MNBs, thus conﬁrming the higher degree of interac-
tivity typifying this type of blog.
5.2 Can and could
Three values are expressed by can: capability (7) possibility (8), and, though in
one single case, permission (9):
(7) I can say that last night was the noisiest night since the bombing ended.
Aside from the vehicles moving, you could hear ﬁre from automatic
weapons, and patrolling was intensiﬁed. (MNBs_RFE22)
(8) I am bewildered. It can’t be happening – for all their faults the Russian
Government can’t be mad enough to be doing this, can they?
(INBs_GCGL18)
(9) Can I stop for a second? (INBs_MJT26)
As anticipated, my main focus is not on the analysis of each single semantic
occurrence, but rather on the identiﬁcation of linguistic aspects highlighting
possible diﬀerences between the three types of blogs produced by writers from
diﬀerent professional backgrounds. Indeed, the frequency of can in interrogative
clauses, as summarized in Figure 4, does provide thought-provoking results:
370 Roberta Facchinetti
Figure 4: Frequency of can in interrogative clauses
Can occurs much more frequently in CNBs than in MNBs, which once again tes-
tiﬁes to the greater degree of interactivity on the part of CNBloggers, while INBs
conﬁrm their status as a shaded, undeﬁned category.
(10) Who can the Russians turn to? China, the SCO, and the other ostracised
countries; the Muslims, and all other energy exporters. And Germany,
Austria, France and Italy, as this post will make clear. (CNBs_DTN16)
As for could, all subcorpora exhibit two main values: tentative possibility on the
one hand (11) and past possibility on the other (12):
(11) This could open the door to serious miscalculations. (INBs_RAJ18)
(12) More than a dozen tanks roamed the center of Gori, a strategic city in
the center of the country about 40 miles from Tbilisi, the capital. . . (. . .)
Occasional gunﬁre could be heard around the city. (MNBs_WiNS13)
The main feature that has been noticed is that, while MNBs exhibit a higher
number of past possibility values, in the other two sections, mostly CNBs, the
number of conditional/tentative patterns increases, as illustrated in Figure 5.
Once again, the higher degree of interactivity and speciﬁcally the need to
discuss things with the interlocutor/reader leads to a change in language use.
This conﬁrms that not all news-related blogs can be treated in the same way
and that the professional/mainstream ones are more prone to report news rather
than to discuss or comment, and to make anticipations on the future rather than
to look back onto past events.
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 371
5.3 Must and should
As highlighted in section 5, must occurs most frequently in MNBs (7.1) than
in INBs (4.7) and CNBs (6.4); moreover, of the two prevalent values – deontic
obligation and epistemic necessity – MNBs largely favour the former:
(13) THE PRESIDENT: Good morning. For more than a week, the people of the
nation of Georgia have withstood assault from the Russian military. (. . .)
We insist that Georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity be respected.
And Moscow must honor its pledge to withdraw its invading forces from
all Georgian territory. (MNBs_SwMS16)
This would suggest the preference for forceful subjective claims by this type of
bloggers. Yet a more in-depth analysis shows that the totality of these occur-
rences are to be found in quotations, and that the MNBloggers are not present-
ing their point of view with reference to what must be done, but rather they are
reporting other people’s words, mostly from oﬃcials and heads of state. Indeed,
in (13) above, it is the President of the United States who is being quoted.
In contrast, the occurrences of must in quotations are more limited in INBs
and particularly, once again, in CNBs, where must conveys almost exclusively
the blogger’s forceful opinion both deontically (14) and epistemically (15):
(14) Hello,
Today while drinking my morning cup of coﬀee, I came across interesting
articles from all over the world. Articles from Western press, that act in
horror that Russia is not going to pull out of South Ossetia! The Western
world has ignored Abkhazia and the fact that Russia will not be pulling
out of Abkhazia either. (. . .) You must understand the reality, that South
Ossetia and Abkhazia are no longer part of Georgia in Russians minds.
(CNBs_WtR21)
Figure 5: Frequency of could in interrogative clauses
372 Roberta Facchinetti
(15) if anything, the prospect of NATO membership, combined with its renewed
oil wealth and the ready possibility of intervention must have increased
Russia’s resolve for swift and decisive action. (CNBs_SitC28)
Indeed, the overall number of quotations actually diminishes in the three sub-
corpora, lowering down in percentage from 2.6 per post to 1.6 in INBs and 1.5
in CNBs.
In turn, should is never recorded in quotations and in all three sections
is used exclusively to express the deontic value of tentative obligation, which
however is less present in MNBs (9 /10,000w) and more recurrent in CNBs
(14 /10,000w):
(16) At The Huﬃngton Post, Joe Lauria wonders if McCain – who, as we all
know, burbled away about talking on the phone every day to his dear
friend Mikheil Saakashvili and sent envoys over to Georgia – helped to
enable this whole crisis. He’s taking stick for it from the right, but in light of
McCain’s own boasts, it’s not an unreasonable question. If it’s discovered
that he did, he should be well and truly disqualiﬁed from foreign policy
vauntings ever again. No, scratch that. In fact, he should already be well
and truly disqualiﬁed from foreign policy experience vauntings ever
again. (INBs_TMVD18).
Once again, the data conﬁrm a higher degree of subjectivity conveyed by CNBs
as opposed to MNBs.
5.4 May and might
Both may and might exclusively convey epistemic possibility, while the value of
deontic permission has not been recorded in CNBs. Might simply diﬀerentiates
from may on account of its higher degree of tentativeness, as illustrated in (17)
and (18).
(17) But it may not be over yet. The most disturbing news I have received
since the guns fell silent is that Russia may still be attempting to force
renewed violence by means of truly devious provocations, such as
false-ﬂag “volunteers” to the Georgian cause, getting Georgia to accept
mercenary muscle in the form of Blackwater-like “private security com-
panies,” and then exposing this in a propaganda coup. (INBs_UtS23.txt)
(18) Some younger readers might not remember. (INBs_TMVD20)
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 373
It should be reminded that may occurs more frequently in INBs (8.6) and CNBs
(9.4), while the least number of occurrences is recorded in MNBs (5.8). Indeed,
opinions are expressed more freely by personal bloggers than by mainstream
professionals.
In contrast, might exhibits similar frequency in the three corpus sections
(MNBs 4.9, INBs 5.3, CNBs 4.9) largely expressing the bloggers’ opinions, rather
than reporting other people’s remarks. Bearing in mind its tentative speciﬁcity on
the one hand and the limited number of forceful modalized comments recorded in
MNBs on the other, the data suggest that, when expressing their opinion, MNBs
tend to favour “weak” and tentative modal constructs rather than more forceful
ones, like must or may.
6 Discussion and conclusion
The linguistic analysis of the corpus has conﬁrmed that news-related blogs
cannot be bulked under one single textual type; indeed, the results indicate
that they are diversiﬁed according not only to the subject matter, but also to
the writer and the “channel” through which the blogger writes, be it main-
stream, independent, or – so to say – “personal”.
Speciﬁcally, while the quantitative data point to a similarity in distribution
of the modal verbs in the three sections of the corpus – will being the most fre-
quent and should the least – a set of aspects has also been highlighted that
point to diﬀerences between the three sections.
In the ﬁrst place, I have recorded a general tendency of tentative modals to
be exploited with more frequency than their present counterparts in CNBs, while
in MNBs they (mostly could) occur largely with their past indicative values.
Moreover, mostly CNBs (but also INBs) appear to favour epistemic possibility
modals rather than deontic necessity ones, which occur more frequently in
MNBs, though exclusively in quotations.
Indeed, while MNBloggers tend to voice their media institutions and maintain
a role of reporters without indulging in the expression of their opinions, but
rather reporting other people’s thoughts and claims, CNBs are more personally-
written and express freely their subjectivity. When, however, MNBloggers do
express their point of view, they favour very tentative modalized patterns, partic-
ularly by means of might.
Secondly, when analyzed in colligation with personal pronouns, it has been
noticed that you would is particularly prevalent in CNBs, while “3rd pers. subj. +
will/would” is more typical of MNBs. Similarly, interrogative can is largely ex-
374 Roberta Facchinetti
ploited in CNBs. This points to a higher degree of interactivity in CNBs than in
MNBs, while INBs place somehow in between.
Hence, my data portray news-related blogs as a diversiﬁed, ﬂexible and
adapting category, where well-deﬁned structures give way to free practice and
rigid rules of genre give way to the ﬂuidity of language use, depending on the
“writing platform”. The present linguistic analysis conﬁrms that, while all three
types of blogs are open access on the web and consequently they all share the
same potential audience, still their diversiﬁcation with reference to the channel
from which they write, be it institutional or not, accounts for the structural and
linguistic choices of each one of the three.
The present study has also allowed me to provide further elements to the
extant research on news-related blogs. The current debate on news-related blogs
seems indeed to be somewhat stuck on conﬂicting positions, while trying to
ascertain whether blogs are undermining traditional journalism, whether they
are its watchdog and its democratic grass-and-root alternative, or, on the con-
trary, they are rather instrumental to and being instrumentalized by it.
My analysis has shown that these questions can be better contextualized by
distinguishing news-related blogs according to the degree of their institutional
relation to journalism. So, judging from my results, MNBs are the fruit of the
entering of the journalistic institutions into the realm of blogs, using this genre
to their purposes and reﬂecting all their interests, structural constraints and
conventions in their blogging. In turn, CNBs are rather the result of the entering
of bloggers into the realm of journalism, thus reﬂecting all the characteristics of
web communication in their news-reporting, but mostly commenting. The most
hybrid type of news-related blog is the one authored by freelance journalists and
independent online media outlets, which can combine more freely the skills and
conventions of their profession with the new possibilities oﬀered by the blog
format.
Undoubtedly, the analysis reported here was carried out on a relatively
small sample of blogs (65), which does not give account of the wide array of
(news-related) blog typologies. One of my future goals is to reﬁne my data and
to widen up the scope of my analysis, in so much as it is hoped to produce a
more complete mapping of diﬀerent types of news-related blogs, including, for
example, political news blogs and blogs related to investigative journalism.
References
Bonyadi, Alireza. 2011. Linguistic manifestations of modality in newspaper editorials. Interna-
tional Journal of Linguistics 3(1): 1–13.
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 375
Bruns, Axel. 2006. The practice of news blogging. In: Axel Bruns and Joanne Jacobs (eds.), Uses
of Blogs, 11–22. New York: Peter Lang.
Chen, Chun-Yin Doris, Yuan-Shan Chen and Miao-Hsia Chang. 2011. American and Chinese com-
plaints: strategy use from a cross-cultural perspective. Intercultural Pragmatics 8(2): 253–
275.
Cheng, Le and King Kui Sin. 2011. A sociosemiotic interpretation of linguistic modality in legal
settings. Semiotica: Journal of the International Association for Semiotic Studies 185: 123–
146.
Chiluwa, Innocent. 2011. On political participation: Discursive pragmatics and social interaction
in Nolitics. Studies in Literature and Language 2(2): 80–92.
Conroy, Mark A. and Linda Cupples. 2011. We could have loved and lost, or we never could have
love at all. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 32(04): 523–552.
Cover, Rebecca T. 2011. Modal aspects of Badiaranke aspect. Lingua 121(8): 1315–1343.
Espada-Gustilo, Leah. 2011. Modal auxiliaries in Philippine English newspapers: A corpus-
based analysis. Philippine ESL Journal 6: 81–109.
Facchinetti, Roberta. 2012. News writing from the 1960s to the present day. In: Nicholas
Brownlees, Roberta Facchinetti, Birte Bös and Udo Fries (eds.), News as Changing Texts:
Corpora, Methodologies and Analysis, 145–196. Newcastle-upon-Tyne: Cambridge Scholars
Publishing.
Gaber, Ivor. 2009. Them and us: Is there a diﬀerence? British Journalism Review 20(1): 41–46.
Haas, Tanni. 2005. From “public journalism” to the “public’s journalism”? Rhetoric and reality
in the discourse on weblogs. Journalism Studies 6(3): 387–396.
Henry, Alex and Debbie G. E. Ho. 2010. The act of complaining in Brunei – Then and now. Journal
of Pragmatics 42(3): 840–855.
Hondo, Junko. 2012. Unveiling learners’ attention during language processing: The case of epis-
temic meanings of a modal verb. Language Awareness: 1–17. Available online: 10 Nov
2011.
John-Michael, Kuczynski. 2010. Intensionality, modality, and rationality: Some presemantic
considerations. Journal of Pragmatics 42(8): 2314–2346.
Kanté, Issa. 2010. Head nouns as modal stance markers – Academic texts vs. legal texts. Revue
de Linguistique et de Didactique des Langues 41: 121–135.
Kehayov, Petar, Liina Lindström and Ellen Niit. 2011. Imperative in interrogatives in Estonian
(Kihnu), Latvian and Livonian. Linguistica Uralica 47(2): 81–93.
Kenix, Jean L. 2009. Blogs as alternative. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 14:
790–822.
Khan, Mahmud Hasan and Subramaniam Govindasamy. 2011. Islamic militancy in Bangladeshi
newspaper editorials: A discourse analysis. Multilingua: Journal of Cross-Cultural and Inter-
language Communication 30(3): 357–376.
Kranich, Svenja. 2011. To hedge or not to hedge: The use of epistemic modal expressions in
popular science in English texts, English-German translations, and German original texts.
Text and Talk: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Language, Discourse and Communication
Studies 31(1): 77–99.
Lasica, Joseph Daniel. 2002. Blogging as a form of journalism. In: John Rodzvilla and Rebecca
Blood (eds.), We’ve Got Blog: How Weblogs Are Changing Our Culture, 163–170. Cambridge:
Perseus.
376 Roberta Facchinetti
Singer, Jane B. 2006. Journalists and news bloggers: Complements, contradictions, and chal-
lenges. In: Axel Bruns and Joanne Jacobs (eds.), Uses of Blogs, 23–32. New York: Peter
Lang.
Timuçin, Metin. 2010. Diﬀerent language styles in newspapers: An investigative framework.
Journal of Language and Linguistic Studies 6(2): 104–126.
Van linden, An and Jean-Christophe Verstraete. (2011). Revisiting deontic modality and related
categories: A conceptual map based on the study of English modal adjectives. Journal of
Pragmatics 43(1): 150–163.
Xiang, Xuehua. 201. Constraint reality: Linguistic expressions of restrictivity and emotive stances.
A discourse-pragmatic study of utterance-ﬁnal lāh in Shishan (Hainan Island, China). Lingua
121(8): 1377–1400.
Zhiming, Bao. 2010. Must in Singapore English. Lingua 120(7): 1727–1737.
Modal Verbs in News-Related Blogs: When the Blogger Counts 377
Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
Modality and personal pronouns as
indexical markers of stance: Intersubjective
positioning and construction of public
identity in media interviews
1 Introduction
In this article we examine the role of markers of Engagement and of personal pro-
nouns as two complementary dimensions of the expression of stance, together
with their role in the construction of identity and intersubjective positioning in
three interviews.1 While personal pronouns and stance markers have traditionally
been analysed separately (see, for instance, Wilson 1990; Martin and White 2005,
respectively), we believe that a combined analysis of personal pronouns and
stance categories may provide relevant insights into the way diﬀerent speakers
construct their identities in interaction.
With regard to the relation between modality and stance, this complex phe-
nomenon has been approached from various perspectives which share in very
broad terms the interest in studying the expression of beliefs, attitudes and feel-
ings in discourse (see, for example, Biber and Finegan 1989; Biber et al. 1999;
Chafe 1986; Hunston and Thompson 1999; Marín-Arrese 2004; Martin and White
2005; Englebretson 2007, among others). While diﬀerent models imply diﬀerent
relations of overlap between the concepts of modality, stance and evaluation,
what is shared by all proposals is the direct relation between the role of modality
and these associated concepts and the interpersonal function of language. In
the present article, we follow Martin and White’s approach to the concept of
stance and adopt their model of Appraisal Theory for the analysis of Engage-
ment stance categories. In this model, the linguistic expressions which are tradi-
tionally regarded as “modal” are subsumed mostly under the category of Enter-
tain, as is explained below. However, it may be argued that the concept of
Engagement is modal in itself, as it proposes various categories in which the
speaker/writer situates himself/herself with regard to the proposition or to his/
her interlocutor. The choice of this framework is motivated by the fact that it
allows us to analyse pronouns in connection with well-established categories
of the expression of intersubjectivity. Besides, as Martin and White (2005: 40)
note, the concept of appraisal is closely connected to Biber’s notion of stance.
1 This study has been carried out within the research project funded by the Ministerio de Ciencia
e Innovación (FFI-2008-01471FILO), to whom we are grateful.
As far as personal pronouns are concerned, extensive research has been
carried out on the functions of personal pronouns in political discourse, with
particular attention to the pragmatic function of pronouns and their contribu-
tion to the ideological construction of subject positions and group relations
(Chilton 2004; van Dijk 1998; Wilson 1990). However, these studies have mainly
focused on the referential aspects of the pronominal system but have not ex-
plored the implications of pronominal use in the expression of stance. Thus,
more work needs to be carried out on the pragmatics of pronominal expressions
as deictic indicators of diﬀerent social roles, on the concept of deictic centre and
on the co-occurrence of deictics with other linguistic features in discourse, such
as modal stance markers.
Following recent research on indexicality and stance (see, for example, Chilton
2004; de Fina, Schiﬀrin, and Bamberg 2006; Englebretson 2007; Hanks 2009;
Marín-Arrese 2009; Cockroft et al. 2013), we consider that both personal pro-
nouns and modal markers are indexical in nature, and, as such, do not only
provide information regarding personal reference, possibility, probability and
evidentiality, among others, but they contribute to the active and dynamic crea-
tion of contexts in spoken and written discourse. On this basis, the objectives of
the present article are to analyse (i) the role of modality in the expression of
stance understood in terms of the domain of engagement (cf. Martin and White
2005), (ii) the use of the pronominal forms I, you and we as linguistic choices of
intersubjective positioning, and (iii) the co-occurrence of personal indexicals
and engagement categories along with their possible implications in the con-
struction of identity.
The type of discourse event selected for our analysis is the interview,
which was chosen because of the interest of this genre as an example of what
Fairclough (1992: 216) describes as a “discourse technology”, that is, a type
of discourse which is consciously designed and staged in order to inﬂuence an
audience, and which inﬂuences and cuts across other types of discourses. As
such, interviews are a good example of hybrid genres, in the sense that they
typically display a combination of resources which are aimed partly at inform-
ing and partly at persuading the audience (Fairclough 1992: 222). Political inter-
views represent a case in point in this regard (see Fairclough 1992: 216–217). At
the same time, it may also be argued that the interview is a genre in which
intersubjective positioning and identity construction play crucial roles2. Indeed,
identity construction can be understood as a process of positioning (see, for
instance, de Fina, Schiﬀrin, and 2006: 8). In this sense, as White (2003: 275)
notes, the analysis of intersubjective positioning makes it possible not only to
2 For a pragmatic analysis of political interviews, see, for example, Chilton (2004).
380 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
analyse how text producers adopt particular stances but also how they construct
an imagined or model readership/audience. In particular, the interviews selected
for this study address a controversial topic such as global warming, which is
likely to demand a clear positioning from politicians, environmentalists and
scientists with regard to the causes and consequences of global warming and
with regard to the actions, if any, that should be undertaken to mitigate this
phenomenon. The relation between stance, positioning and attitude to the topic
of discourse is pointed out by du Bois, who deﬁnes stance as follows: “A public
act by a social actor, achieved dialogically through overt communicative means,
of simultaneously evaluating objects, positioning subjects (self and others), and
aligning with other subjects, with respect to any salient dimension of the socio-
cultural ﬁeld” (2007: 163).
In brief, we hope to contribute not only to the study of the relation between
modal markers of stance and pronominal variation in the expression of stance
and identity construction, but also to the exploitation of the appraisal system
in the genre of interviews. In this regard, of particular interest is the analysis of
spoken scientiﬁc discourse, as research into this type of discourse has mainly
focused on scientiﬁc writing (see Halliday and Martin 1993).
The present article is organised as follows. After this introduction, section 2
describes the interviews selected for analysis and the methodology used in the
study. Section 3 focuses on the main areas of analysis in the study of pronouns
and describes Martin and White’s (2005) model of Appraisal Theory. Section 4
presents the analysis and interpretation of results. Here we analyse the expres-
sion of stance in the domain of Engagement as well as the functions of pro-
nouns and their occurrence within Engagement categories in connection with
the issue of public identity. Finally, section 5 oﬀers the main conclusions drawn
from the analysis.
2 Data and methodology
2.1 Data
The data consists of the transcriptions of three interviews which address the
topic of global warming:
1. A video recorded interview to ex- British Foreign Secretary David Milliband3
(1475 words). The interview was conducted by Jeremy Paxman on the BBC2
3 At the time the interview was conducted, David Milliband was Foreign Secretary (2007–2010).
Previously, he had been Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Aﬀairs.
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 381
programme Newsnight on 7th May 2008. In this interview, Milliband discusses
the eﬀects of a low-carbon economy in relation to climate change. The inter-
view was transcribed by the authors of the present paper.
2. An interview to environmentalist Bill McKibben, who became popular for
organising in 2006 the biggest demonstration against global warming in
the US (3071 words). Here McKibben addresses the connection between
studying abroad and the development of an environmental consciousness,
especially as far as global warming is concerned. The transcription is taken
from the Internet magazine Abroad View, Spring 2008.
3. An interview to researcher and public health expert Dr. Jonathan Patz (1504
words), accessible on the web page of Scientiﬁc American (Section Science
Talk), November 7 2007. In this interview Patz talks about the ethics of
climate change.
These interviews will be referred to in the analysis section as follows: P (politician),
EN (environmentalist), EX (expert).
2.2 Methodology
The three interviews were tagged manually with labels indicating the relevant
categories of engagement. A search of occurrences of these categories was carried
out by means of a concordancer (MonoConc). Likewise, pronominal occurrences
were searched using the same method.
Next, the frequency and distribution per 1,000 words of each engagement
category and pronoun was calculated in order to make the three interviews com-
parable. Given that among all the pronominal forms identiﬁed only the forms I,
we, and you co-occur with engagement categories, it was decided that the anal-
ysis would focus on these pronominal forms, thus leaving out other pronominal
variants (e.g. my, our, their, etc.).
Once the quantitative analysis was conducted, a qualitative analysis was
carried out with the aim of identifying the functions of the engagement devices,
the referents of each pronoun, their occurrence within verbal clusters associated
with stance categories, and, ﬁnally, possible changes in pragmatic meaning of a
particular pronoun in context.
3 Theoretical background
The present section presents Martin and White’s (2005) model of Appraisal
Theory, focusing on the description of the domain of engagement, followed by a
382 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
brief overview of diﬀerent approaches to the analysis of the pronominal system
as indexical markers.
3.1 Modality within Engagement in Appraisal Theory
Within Systemic Functional Linguistics, Martin and White’s Appraisal Theory
(2005) addresses the study of the interpersonal function in language and develops
the Hallidayan approach to modality into a theory in its own right. Appraisal
Theory proposes a model for the study of the interpersonal function by focusing
on those evaluative devices whereby speakers/writers adopt a particular stance
towards both the material they present and the interlocutors with whom they
interact:
Among other things, appraisal is concerned with the construction by texts of communities
of shared feelings and values, and with the linguistic mechanisms for the sharing of emo-
tions, tastes and normative assessments. It is concerned with how writers/speakers con-
strue for themselves particular authorial identities or personae, with how they align or
disalign themselves with actual or potential respondents, and with how they construct for
their texts an intended or ideal audience. (Martin and White 2005:1)
From an interpersonal perspective, the concept of modality overlaps with
other concepts such as evaluation, stance and intersubjective positioning, as
already pointed out in the introduction to this article. Although modality can
also be studied narrowly as referring to the linguistic devices which express
speaker’s attitudes to the content of a proposition (typically, epistemic and
deontic modal markers), we argue that a discourse-based approach beneﬁts
from a broad view of modality which addresses this linguistic phenomenon as
a more general function of language and which situates current discourse along
various dimensions. Appraisal Theory, and more speciﬁcally the system of
Engagement, oﬀers in our view, an adequate model for the analysis of the com-
plex interplay of modal meaning in discourse understood as a set of features
which relativise the strength of the proposition and situate utterances along
clines of intersubjective positiong and stance with regard to real or possible
interlocutors.4
The domain of Engagement encompasses those resources that “provide the
means for the authorial voice to position itself with respect to, and hence to
4 For an overview of Appraisal Theory and its relation to other concepts such as stance and
evaluation, see, for example, Thompson and Hunston (1999); White (2003); Martin (2003), and
the special issues in Functions of Language and Text: Davidse and Simon-Vanderbergen (2002);
Martin (2003); Bednarek (2008).
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 383
“engage” with, the other voices and alternative positions construed as being in
play in the current communicative context” (Martin and White 2005: 94). This
idea of positioning with respect to other voices and alternative positions is the
centre of the “modal” or “interpersonal” view of discourse in the Appraisal system.
That is, speakers can reject or suppress alternative views or invoke dialogic
alternatives by presenting the proposition being advanced in the text as one
among a range of possible positions (White 2003; Martin and White 2005).
According to Martin and White (2005), engagement devices can be dialogi-
cally contractive or dialogically expansive. That is, they either foreground the
speaker’s subjectivity by closing down the space for dialogic alternatives (dialogic
contraction), or allow for other possible positions by opening up the space for
them (dialogic expansion). Table 1 summarises the categories for Engagement
within the model of Appraisal Theory (adapted from Martin and White 2005:
134).
Table 1: Dialogic Contraction and Expansion in Martin and White’s (2005) model
of Appraisal Theory
Engagement
Dialogic Contraction Dialogic Expansion
Disclaim Proclaim Entertain Attribute
– Deny – Concur – Possibility/Probability – Acknowledge
– Counter – Pronounce – Obligation – Distance
– Endorse – Evidence/Appearance
– Cognition
As can be seen from Table 1, under the Appraisal Theory model, the notion
of Engagement encompasses, ﬁrst of all, those formulations used to take an
explicit stance. We can observe that the distinction between the categories of
Contraction and Expansion encompasses discursive phenomena which illustrate
the tension between what other authors have called the cline from REALIS to
IRREALIS (assertion, probability, possibility, negation, see for example Givón
1993), or from yes to no (yes, probable, possible, no; see Halliday 1994). Modality
is thus understood as a complex system which includes a cline from positive
assertion (realis) to negative assertion (irrealis) with a series of categories in
between expressing diﬀerent degrees or types of commitment of the speaker
to the content of the proposition and to his/her interlocutor. It is also worth
mentioning that the category of Entertain includes the classical markers of
modality and, additionally, markers of evidentiality (see Chafe 1994 for a view
of modality as part of evidential meaning; see, for example, Hidalgo Downing
384 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
2004 for a discussion of the relation between modality and evidentiality), and
that the category Attribute includes typical markers of speech representation
or reporting speech, in which the distinction direct vs. indirect speech can also
be interpreted in terms of modal distance (see Werth 1999).
Within Dialogic Contraction, the category Disclaim refers to expressions
whereby the speaker/writer either positions him/herself as at odds with an alter-
native position (denials, such as “you don’t have to earn a lot of money to buy a
decent house”) or rejects it (expressions of counter expectation or concession, as
in “they are still in love although they do not see each other very often”). Pro-
claim refers to the presentation of the information as reliable, valid or generally
agreed, thus overruling alternative positions. The types of formulations that
fall into the category Proclaim are grouped into three diﬀerent subcategories:
Concur, or expressions whereby the textual voice presents itself as supporting a
particular view presented in the text (“obviously/ of course the government will
take actions. . . .”); Pronounce, or formulations that insist on the validity of the
proposition expressed (“There is no doubt that. . .”), and, ﬁnally, Endorse,
whereby the information presented is attributed to a reliable source (“As studies
have shown/demonstrated. . . .”).
In contrast to these categories that constrain the dialogic space, the cate-
gories Entertain and Attribute open up the space for alternative positions. Spe-
ciﬁcally, Entertain refers to the presentation of the proposition as one among
a range of diﬀerent dialogic alternatives. Martin and White (2005: 104) view
Entertain as “the dialogistic expansiveness of modality and evidentiality”, as it
accounts for those expressions that have traditionally been analysed as markers
of modality (Bybee and Fleischman 1995) and evidentiality (Biber and Finegan
1989). Following Halliday’s view, also shared by Palmer (1986), the Entertain
category includes formulations expressed by mental verbs such as I think, I
believe inasmuch as these “structures are “modal” rather than experiential or
informational in their communicative functionality” (Martin and White 2005:
105). As a result, Entertain encompasses the following modal and evidential
meanings:
– Epistemic modality (possibility, probability)
– Deontic modality: (obligation)
– Evidentiality (e.g. It seems that, I hear, apparently)
– Cognition (e.g. I think, I believe)
The last category in the domain of Engagement is that of Attribution, which
accounts for those formulations that present the information as attributed to
an external source from which the speaker may distance himself (category of
Distance, as in “X party claims that. . .”) or adopt a neutral position (category of
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 385
Acknowledge, as in “X said that. . .”). In other words, the category of Attribution
captures such concepts as extra-vocalisation and heteroglossia (Bakhtin 1986) or
intertextuality (Kristeva 1986)5.
As can be seen from the above description, these dimensions can be linguis-
tically realised through a wide range of lexical and grammatical devices. For the
purpose of our study, we will focus on those patterns that co-occur with the pro-
nominal forms I, you and we.
3.2 The interpersonal dimension of the pronominal system
Few studies have been carried out on the way in which modal markers and
personal pronouns complement each other in the expression of stance and inter-
subjective positioning, although Chilton (2004) clearly proposes that by means
of both modal markers and deictics speakers establish scales of distancing
and of evaluation. Our aim is to explore in depth this relation between modal
markers and personal deictics, considering both types of linguistic features as
indexical markers that construct subject positions.
A great part of the research on referentiality and deixis has gone into the
explanation of the complex question of referentiality and existence in relation
to Noun Phrases, deﬁniteness and indeﬁniteness. Otherwise, the most relevant
research on deixis has focused on the characteristics of deictic systems in
various languages (see Hanks 1992, 2009; Levinson 2004; Etelämäki 2008).
Within the ﬁeld of discourse analysis, the study of pronouns has been parti-
cularly relevant in the study of political discourse (Wilson 1990; Chilton and
Shäﬀner 1997; van Dijk 1998; Chilton 2004). Precisely, Chilton (2004: 56) de-
scribes pronouns as “one class of words that can perform deictic functions”
and, as such, they may contribute to the reinforcement of group identity.
From a critical perspective, and as explained in the introductory section
above, pronouns serve an interpersonal function and contribute to the ideologi-
cal construction of subject positions and group relations (Chilton 2004; Fair-
clough 1989; van Dijk 1998) and, as such, they complement the meanings
expressed by other stance markers such as those proposed by the Appraisal
Theory model described above. The study of pronouns as linguistic devices
5 Following Marín-Arrese and Núñez-Perucha (2006: 230), these four categories of Engagement
can be interpreted in terms of a continuum that progresses from the speaker/writer’s subjective
evaluations (as in the case of the categories of Proclaim and Disclaim) to evaluations that can
be intersubjectively shared by speaker/writer and addressee (category of Entertain), to, ﬁnally,
a shift in perspective represented by the inclusion of some other textual voice (category of
Attribution).
386 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
whereby speakers indicate their ideological position with regard to certain
groups or issues implies an analysis of the pronominal system from a pragmatic
perspective. As Wilson (1990: 47) notes, the pragmatic analysis of the pronomi-
nal system is concerned with the possible eﬀects that pronominal choice has on
the hearer/reader’s perception of the speaker/writer. It follows then that speak-
ers may select particular pronouns in an attempt to position themselves and the
audience in a particular way. For instance, in the case of political discourse, Wil-
son (1990: 45–77) provides a detailed analysis of the pragmatic eﬀects and the
manipulative possibilities of the pronominal system. Two aspects of Wilson’s
approach to pronouns are particularly relevant for our analysis. First, the classi-
ﬁcation and distribution of pronominal categories in political discourse,
together with the distancing scale for pronouns; and second, the distinction
between inclusive and exclusive uses of pronouns.
With regard to the ﬁrst aspect, Wilson distinguishes the following types of
pronominal forms and their distribution with regard to the grammatical category
of person:
Table 2: Pronominal distribution (From Wilson 1990: 57)
First person Second person Third person
Singular I
One
You
You He/she/it
One (indeﬁnite)
You (indeﬁnite)
Plural We You They
Those
An interesting aspect of this distribution for the purposes of our analysis is that
in this system, the pronoun you has been allocated in ﬁrst and third person,
in addition to second. With regard to the use of you for ﬁrst person refer-
ence, Wilson observes that “It can be argued that you is what is referred to as
a “situational insertion”, the conversion of one’s own personal experience into
experiences which might be, or can be, shared by the addressee” (1990: 56).
The interpretation of you as indicating merely ﬁrst person is pragmatic and
determined by the context and co-text. This use of you contrasts with what Wilson
deﬁnes as “indeﬁnite you”, which has also been described by other authors as
impersonal or non-referential you. Wilson (1990: 57) argues that the pronoun
you is used in the latter category “to reﬂect upon a kind of conventional wisdom
as opposed to actual experience”. He provides the following example:
(1) Money can’t buy you a loving family.
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 387
Reference in this example is to people in general and “Any reference to
self, or to addressee, occurs only in so far as they are members of the wider
categories mentioned” (Wilson 1990: 58).
With regard to the distinction between inclusive and exclusive uses of the
pronoun we, Wilson establishes a distinction between uses of we which include
the speaker, as in the example of two doctors saying “Shall we get started?”,
and uses which exclude the speaker, as in a doctor saying to a patient “How
are we feeling today?” (Wilson 1990: 48). Wilson argues that this second strategy
can be used by politicians as a distancing eﬀect to avoid responsibility on
certain issues.
The distinction between inclusive and exclusive uses may be applied to the
uses of the pronoun you. Thus, while the use of you as direct address to the
addressee excludes the speaker, the uses of you to indicate a shared experience
and “indeﬁnite you” include the speaker as part of the referent, as is explained
below. In this sense, these uses of you are similar to the indeﬁnite one, which
also includes the speaker but brings the audience into the referential domain in
a general way.
Wilson establishes a distancing scale for pronouns and observes that “When
considering personal pronouns, we begin from the most fundamental and sub-
jective form I (and its variants, me, my or mine) and then progressively move
outward, or away from this deictic centre” (Wilson 1990: 58, emphasis in original).
Although not explicitly stated, it can be assumed that the use of you to indicate
a shared experience can be found in a position in between you used to express
direct address and “indeﬁnite you”.
Prototypically, ﬁrst person pronouns indicate self-reference, whereas second
and third person pronouns tend to refer to the addressee or other participants.
Thus, the form I (and its variants, me, mine or my), represents the most sub-
jective form or deictic centre, the rest of the forms being placed either closer or
farther from this centre, depending on how the speaker positions him/herself
with respect to other individuals (Wilson 1990: 58). In this sense, pronominal
choices reﬂect not only how close/distant speakers position themselves ideolog-
ically with respect to others but also how they conceptualise this relation in
schematic and metaphorical terms alike (Núñez-Perucha 2001).
It is worth pointing out that, while in the traditional, or egocentric, view
of deixis, the origo or deictic centre is situated in the speaker or the I-here-and-
now, recent studies on deixis (see Levinson 2004; Hanks 2009; Stirling and
Maderson 2011; Myers and Lampropoulou 2012) have questioned this approach,
together with the fact that deictic orientation should be based on spatial proximity.
Hanks (2009: 11) explains this very clearly as follows:
388 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
The tacit background picture depicts deictic utterances as one-man acts that pick out objects
distributed according to relative closeness to the Spr. Yet it is an empirical question whether
the origo of a given utterance, a given linguistic form, or a set of forms in a given language
is actually the Spr, the Adr or some other aspect of context.
3.2.1 A revision of the functions of you: you as a displaced deictic
From this perspective, it may be argued that the second person pronoun you,
when used to express a shared experience and also when used as indeﬁnite
you, can function as a displaced deictic centre. This is manifested explicitly for
the you as shared experience in those cases in which it co-occurs with the ﬁrst
person pronouns I and we in the same stretch of discourse. Here the presence of
the ﬁrst person pronoun seems to set up a frame for the projection of the deictic
centre to an intermediate space of reference which includes both the speaker
and the addressee together with the ideally constructed audience. The use of
the pronoun you thus situates the origo or deictic centre in a position half way
between the speaker and the addressee, and invites the addressee and the
possible audience to identify with the position represented by the speaker (for
a similar argument, see Stirling and Maderson 2011, Myers and Lampropoulou
2012).
As can be seen in example (2) below the speaker chooses to use the second
person pronoun you instead of using the ﬁrst person pronoun I to construct the
aforementioned intermediate space of reference.
(2) I was in Tibet in the summer of 2006. Every time [[you]] would turn a
corner in the road you would see in the distance someone prostrating
himself on the. . . . (EN)
Example (3) below illustrates the use of you which has traditionally been
classiﬁed as impersonal. In our corpus, the pronoun you in this use is framed
within the occurrence of a general referent, such as “people”, “travellers”, “the
country”, etc., thus appealing to this common wisdom mentioned by Wilson
(cf. example [1] above). We argue that in this indeﬁnite use there is also a dis-
placement of the deictic centre. In this case, the displacement is from a general,
impersonal referent, for example, “people”, to a deictic point closer to the speaker
and to the addressee as in example (3) below:
(3) . . .If people don’t come home changed, then it was a waste of money and a
waste of carbon. If [[you]] can travel to someplace diﬀerent and not have it
change you, there’s something wrong . . . (EN)
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 389
It follows then that apart from the use of you as referring to the interlocutor,
we also need to account for those referential uses of you which indicate a shared
experience and indeﬁnite reference.
The full potential of the eﬀects of pronominal functions in discourse has to
be examined, therefore, in context. The following section oﬀers a brief overview
of the appraisal devices, and more speciﬁcally, engagement expressions, which,
as indexical markers, will be studied in conjunction with the pronouns I, you
and we.
4 Analysis and discussion of data
4.1 The expression of stance in the domain of Engagement
In our corpus, the three speakers use resources belonging to all the four main
categories of engagement. However, diﬀerences emerge as regards the frequency
and distribution of engagement markers used in each of the subcategories.
Regarding the category of Dialogistic Contraction, Figure 1 below shows
that Proclaim and Disclaim markers are signiﬁcantly more frequent in the politi-
cian’s discourse. This seems to point to high subjective involvement of the
speaker towards the information conveyed and more contracted space for other
alternatives.
Figure 1: Frequency and distribution of the categories of Dialogistic Contraction
In the politician’s discourse, Proclaim is mainly used to reﬂect the speaker’s
concern with authorial appreciation in terms of what is good or bad, and with
390 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
judgements of social sanctions evaluating the rightness of the actions carried
out by the speaker or by his political party.
(4) It doesn’t matter how we get the carbon reductions down, what matters is
that they come down in total, remember, aviation is actually 6% of the
total. (P)
(5) . . .today carbon is trading at 24–25 euros a ton, that’s a good thing. (P)
(6) Because he [Gordon Brown] was the right leader last year, he’s the
right leader this year and he’ll be the right leader to lead us into the
general election. (P)
It is worthy of remark that the co-occurrence of instances of Proclaim in the
same stretch of discourse, as in example (6), provides authorial emphasis on the
proposition being advanced while closing down the space for some opposed
alternative viewpoint.
A recurrent pattern in the politician’s discourse is the use of Disclaim devices
followed by self-reference in an attempt to challenge the interviewer’s view. That
is, negation seems to be used here as a mechanism of both self-defence and self-
aﬃrmation, as illustrated by examples (7) and (8) below:
(7) JP: Well, you can’t do it on set aside.
DM: No, but I’m making, I’m making the point that there are bad ways of
promoting bio-fuel and there are sensible ways of doing it. . . . (P)
(8) JP: . . . are are you to be really taken seriously as a government that cares
about reducing carbon emissions if you are not prepared to do something
which may be electorally unpopular?
DM: But Hang on, hang on, the test is our greenhouse gas emissions going
down. (P)
By contrast, in the discourses of the environmentalist and the expert, the
propositions signalling Proclaim and Disclaim exhibit a lower frequency of
authorial evaluations and tend to contain elements of appreciation and judg-
ments of veracity. Both Proclaim and Disclaim are used by the speakers to
position themselves with respect to what they think are relevant issues in
connection with climate change.
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 391
(9) You get to India, or to Tibet, or any number of places where people have a
diﬀerent set of senses about what’s important. It’s unsettling, and it should
be unsettling. The only point of education is to be unsettling. (EN)
(10) (. . .) poor countries in the developing world that are experiencing the most
impacts from climate change. This is especially true in the area of
health. (EX)
(11) Travel that just allows you to replicate your life here in America but in a
warmer climate is no longer a really supportable idea. (EN)
(12) Even, you know, there is a lot on economics and impact, but fairness – it’s
an important issue. (EX)
With regard to Dialogistic Expansion, the main diﬀerences concern the cate-
gories of Possibility, Obligation and Cognition, as can be seen from Figure 2
below. Such diﬀerences may be explained in terms of the dissimilar speaker’s
communicative purposes and their diﬀerent public identities. Thus, in the scien-
tist’s discourse there is a higher frequency of epistemic markers of Possibility,
which are used to refer to the possible causes and consequences of global
warming in a tentative manner. By contrast, the environmentalist’s and the
politician’s discourses show a higher number of instances of Obligation. This
appears to be consistent with their focus on the current need for social action
together with the promotion of environmental awareness, and the advancement
of actions required of the government in a particular situation, respectively.
Figure 2: Engagement. Dialogistic Expansion
392 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
More speciﬁcally, choices within the modality system range from epistemic
expressions conveying a predictive meaning that shows a medium-to-high degree
of certainty, as in (14) and (15), to more tentative expressions of probability and
possibility, as in (13) and (16).
(13) It turns out that this is probably an ecologically ineﬃcient way to run a
society. (EN)
(14) We’ll be the preeminent cause of this for many decades to come no matter
what China does. (EN)
(15) and if climate is changing, a lot of these diseases will be changing as
well. (EX)
(16) increases in disease in any region of the world really can aﬀect all of us.
(EX)
Interestingly, most of the markers of possibility in the politician’s discourse
contain repetition of the modal verb used by the interviewer, as can be seen
from example (17):
(17) JP: But could new coal ﬁre power stations be built in this country without
an integral immediately operational carbon capture facility [in them]. . .
DM: Well, well, they could. (. . .)
In the case of deontic modals as instantiations of the category Obligation,
they are practically absent in the expert’s discourse. What is more, here the
only instance found has been mitigated by means of the imperative let’s: “let’s
be very deliberate and very careful in the energy policies that we plan” (cf. “we
have to be. . .”). By contrast, Obligation has the highest frequency in the environ-
mentalist’s discourse, closely followed by the politician’s discourse. As shown
in examples (18)–(21), while the environmentalist mainly uses instances of the
modal need, thus emphasising the need for social action and presenting this as
inescapable requirement, the politician combines the form have to, which also
expresses inescapable obligation, with forms such as cannot, indicating an impedi-
ment to action, or should, expressing the course of action as advisable. In all cases,
the subject of the verb is presented as a morally responsible (potential) agent.
(18) [As] global warming becomes a more pressing and pinching problem. . .
one of the things people need to see when they go abroad is the eﬀects of
that on people around the world. (EN)
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 393
(19) Most countries have some mix of both, and we need to train students to
look for this . . . the use of energy in the world is the single most important
question we have. (EN)
(20) if we cannot mitigate the eﬀects of climate change then we should help
them adapt if that means they can’t live where they were living we have to
help and support life somewhere else. (P)
(21) Because it’s good sense that what we should try and do is that if we
cannot mitigate the eﬀects. (P)
With regard to markers of Cognition, their predominance in the politician’s
discourse may be explained by the fact that they allow him to express his/her
political views in a highly subjective way (e.g. “I think. . .”) and appeal to knowl-
edge shared with his political party (“we believe. . .”). As is further discussed in
the next section, markers of Cognition tend to co-occur with the personal pro-
nouns I and we, and as such become part of rhetorical strategies of positive
self-presentation and avoidance of blame:
(22) I think that’s the right thing. (P)
(23) (. . .) we believe that the climate change bill which has got cross party
support which the Prime Minister’s led through the House of Commons is
gonna require that our carbon emissions come down by about 60% least
60% by 2050. (P)
The extensive use of the self-referential pattern found in the politician’s dis-
course, where 13 of the 15 examples representing the category of Cognition con-
tain the pattern “I think”, “I don’t think”, “I can’t remember”, contrasts with the
more common uses of cognition markers with the pronoun we as referring to the
whole country in the scientist’s and the environmentalist’s discourses.
(24) Well, certainly we know that the industrialized world is causing global
warming. (EX)
(25) We all know what Third-World cities that triple in population are
supposed to look like. (EN)
Another interesting feature regarding markers of Dialogistic Expansion in-
volves diﬀerences in the way evidentials are used. Speciﬁcally, although the
394 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
category of Perception appears in the three interviews at a similar frequency, in
the discourse of the politician there is a higher use of evidential expressions
which explicitly designate the speaker as the sole experiencer (see example 26).
This contrasts, for instance, with the use of impersonal constructions in the
environmentalist’s discourse.
(26) I see someone who’s actually making the right decision. (P)
(27) and it’s not completely clear we’ll be able to keep doing it all that much
longer. (EN)
Instances of Attribution are noticeably less frequent when compared to the
frequency of the categories discussed above. The analysis reveals that the three
speakers avoid showing Endorsement and prefer neutral insertions of other textual
voices by means of Nonendorsement. Of the three speakers, the politician is
the one who makes more frequent use of attribution devices showing non-
endorsement and only the expert and the politician make use of disendorsement
devices – see examples (31) and (32) below.
(28) If people come back and say “I got sick while I was on study abroad and
went to the hospital. . . .” (EN)
(29) . . . according to the World Health Organization, . . . they estimate over
200,000 people are killed every year from just the warming that has
occurred between 1970 and 2000. (EX)
(30) . . . when I’m in California next week, the week after next, they’ll be
saying we want to join the European emissions trading scheme, not pour
scorn on it. (P)
(31) . . . you could make the counter argument that in fact our market, where
we are actually importing market goods from China and other parts of the
world, then in fact, our energy contribution may be even greater, so could
be on the contrary to what you’re suggesting, but that’s another analysis.
(EX)
(32) Well, no, I set out in my speech tonight ﬁve ways in which we are going to
make progress and, I think what’s important you call it aspirational and
I plead guilty to that, but remember people are paying 1 pound 24 for a
litre of petrol. (P)
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 395
4.2 Frequency and function of pronouns
As far as the frequency and function of pronouns are concerned, Figure 3 below
shows the frequency of the pronouns I, you and we in the three speakers. Signif-
icant diﬀerences can be observed in the use of the pronoun I in the politician,
which contrasts with a preference for the pronoun you in the environmentalist
and the expert, and the use of the pronoun we in the politician and the expert.
Figure 3: Personal pronouns in the three speakers
If we consider the uses of the pronouns in each speaker, it is worth noticing that
while the politician shows a clear preference for the use of ﬁrst person pro-
nouns, especially the pronoun I, the environmentalist shows a preference for
the pronoun you, while the two ﬁrst person pronouns are used with similar fre-
quencies in his discourse, and the expert shows a preference for the use of we
and you, with a lower frequency of I.
4.2.1 First person pronouns
The pronoun I is used typically by the three speakers to express their identity as
representatives of their social roles, as in examples (33), (34) and (35):
(33) [[I]] believe we are better oﬀ in the European Union and we can achieve
through a market of 475. . . (P)
(34) [[I]] do think that it is the most legitimate use of jet fuel that we’ve got,
and . . . It’s not complet. . . (EN)
396 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
(35) And [[I]] am talking about energy policy to reduce greenhouse gases.
If we reduce greenhouse gases to. . . (EX)
In the use of the pronoun we, we can appreciate an alternation between
reference to the social (or political) group the speakers represent, such as the
government, environmentalists or scientists (examples 36 to 38), and a more
general kind of reference, as in the case where we refers to the country and the
people of their country (“national we” and “social we”). Examples (39) to (41)
illustrate this latter use.
(36) That depends on the progress that we make with the demonstration plan
that [[we]] are making. (P)
(37) . . . so [[we]] organized this march up the western side of Vermont to
Burlington. . . (EN)
(38) And what’s unique about our paper – that’s I think, the real important
message here – is that [[we]] took those numbers from the World Health
Organization. (EX)
(39) . . . at least 60% the carbon emissions by 2050 and that can come, remember
on housing, which is 35%, [[we]] are moving to essentially carbon neutral
housing by 26. (P)
(40) Most countries have some mix of both, and [[we]] need to train students
to look for this. . .the use of energy in the world is the single most
import. . . (EN)
(41) And I am talking about energy policy to reduce greenhouse gases.
If [[we]] reduce greenhouse gases to reduce global warming, think of
the co-beneﬁts. (EX)
These two uses of we, the national and social we, on the one hand, and, the
more restrictive use referring to the speaker’s own group, on the other hand,
correlate with the distinction between “inclusive we” (speaker + audience) and
“exclusive we” (speaker’s group). This diﬀerence in the use of the referents of
we is summarised in Table 3.
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 397
Table 3: Referents of the pronoun we
Speaker/referent Politician Environmentalist Expert
People/nation 18 19 18
Group 5 2 8
Total 23 21 26
In the case of the politician, reference to the people/nation includes references
to the British in general terms, and reference to his group includes references to
the government and his political party. In the environmentalist, the use of we
alternates between reference to the American people or the US, and reference to
the environmentalists as a group. Finally, in the case of the expert, the reference
of the pronoun we alternates between reference to the American people and
experts on climate change and his own research group. In all three cases, the
use of “national we” allows the speaker to adopt a referential item which is
suﬃciently vague to permit both the marking of distance and avoidance of
responsibility and solidarity. The use of we as referring to the group the speaker
belongs to allows the speaker to move from I to we to avoid responsibility.
Finally, other interesting uses of the pronoun we concern its use to refer
to the speaker’s own group as a rhetorical strategy to share responsibility for
actions regarding the climate change issue. This can be observed in examples
(42) (43), where the politician prefers the use of the plural form over the ﬁrst
person singular I, even if the interviewer seems to be eliciting an answer from
him as individual:
(42) JP: What do YOU want to do in our government?
DM: We, we, we want to ensure that we meet the commitments of our
climate change bill, which are to reduce by 50% about at least 60% the
carbon emissions by 2050.
(43) JP: Should, should they. . .?
DM: because that’s a separate question. . .
JP. Should they be? I’m asking you.
DM: That depends on the progress that we make with the demonstration
plan that we are making.
As will be shown in subsection 4.3., further diﬀerences regarding the use of
we arise from its diﬀerent distribution with engagement categories.
398 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
4.2.3 The pronoun you
Figure 4 below shows the frequency per 1,000 words of the three uses of you in
the three speakers. Following Wilson, we use the notation you1 to refer to the
you used for direct address to the interlocutor, you2 for the use of “shared expe-
rience” and you3 as “indeﬁnite you”. As argued in section 3.2. above, while you1
is exclusive, since it excludes reference to the speaker, you2 and you3 are inclu-
sive, that is, they include the speaker as a referent and, additionally, constitute
displaced deictic centres to a shared space between speaker and addressee/
audience.
Figure 4: Frequency of types of you in the three speakers
The results show that while the politician uses more frequently you1, that is,
the form that indicates direct address to the addressee, the environmentalist
uses more frequently you3 or indeﬁnite you, and, ﬁnally, the expert uses more
frequently you2 or the you of shared experience.
The pronoun you is used to address the interviewer either directly, mostly in
the case of the politician, as in example (44), or as part of discourse markers, as
in example (45).
(44) . . .and, I think what’s important [[you1]] call it aspirational and I plead
guilty to that, but remember people are paying 1 pound 24 for a. . . (P)
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 399
(45) They are the opposite of a supermarket, [[you1]] know the sort of sterile
place with packages of corn syrup in diﬀerent shapes. (EN)
Additionally, the pronoun you appears in the role of a displaced deictic as
described in section 3.2., which allows the speaker to move from the use of
I to indicate personal reference to a position closer to the addressee and the
constructed audience. The politician uses this second person pronoun on one
occasion to displace the deictic centre when moving to a dispreferred topic, the
possible loss of his job, as illustrated in example (46):
(46) DM: N’ n’ (denial gesture) I want to be a really good Foreign Secretary.
What makes me get up in the morning is actually the job I’ve got and the
best rule in politics if [you2] start worrying about [your2] next job [you2]
lose [your2] current one and I I want to do the job I’m doing at the
moment. (P)
The environmentalist uses the shift from ﬁrst person pronoun to second person
you2 on numerous occasions in a shift which seems to allow the addressee and
audience to position themselves from the perspective of the environmentalist.
Thus, this seems to be a strategy designed to create alignment between speaker
and addressee, as illustrated by examples (47)–(48) below. In all these cases
there is a shift from the ﬁrst person pronoun I to the second person pronoun
you, which we have called you2:
(47) . . .important work I’ve done not just because of the things that I’ve
seen but because of the way it allows [[you2]] to come back and look at
your own place and understand its strengths and weakness, and escape
from. . . (EN)
In the case of the expert, it is clear that at times he is discussing the results of
his study but using the second person pronoun you2 instead of a ﬁrst person
plural we as in examples (48) and (49):
(48) . . . that time it was 160,000 deaths every year from climate change. We
mapped those diseases and [[you2]] see regional diﬀerences. For example,
malaria and malnutrition really occur in Africa, poor parts. . . (EX)
(49) Then when you put that up against the map of climate-sensitive diseases
determined by WHO, what [[you2]] see is in Africa, where you have 70 to
80 percent of the world’s malaria and a large amount of mal. . . (EX)
400 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
In these examples, the speaker creates an intermediate space between the I
of the speaker and the you of the addressee and constructed audience, a shared
space of experience in which both addressee and audience are invited to posi-
tion themselves. Finally, both the environmentalist and the expert seem to use
the pronoun you3 (i.e. indeﬁnite you) instead of the third person pronoun they,
them or the indeﬁnite one in order to bring closer to speaker and addressee the
third person entities that they are referring to in their discourse, as in examples
(50) to (52). In these examples we ﬁnd the presence of general referents such as
“other places”, “people”, “the rich countries”:
(50) In most other places in the world, when you need food, if you’re not
growing it yourself, [[you3]] go to the market – and they’re wonderful.
They are the opposite of a supermarket, you know the sort. . . (EN)
(51) If people don’t come home changed, then it was a waste of money and a
waste of carbon. If [[you3]] can travel to someplace diﬀerent and not have
it change you, there’s something wrong with the ped. . . (EN)
(52) . . . is clear: The rich countries producing greenhouse gases on the one
hand; and on the other hand [[you3]] have countries, poor countries in
the developing world that are experiencing the most impacts from. . . (EX)
It is interesting to observe that while the politician shows a preference for
the non-ambiguous ﬁrst person reference, I or we, thus focusing the conversa-
tional exchange on the perspective of the speaker as politician and representa-
tive of the government, the environmentalist shows a clear preference for one of
the displaced deictic centres, the pronoun you3, thus minimising the imposition
of the speaker’s perspective and inviting the addressee/audience to establish
alignment with the speaker on the basis of a common experience; the expert
shows a preference for both the third person we and the displaced deictic you2,
thus alternating between reference to the community of experts to which he
belongs, and the second person constructed shared space.
Table 4 shows the distancing scale for the three speakers. The politician
moves from I as the preferred deictic form to we, you of direct address and,
ﬁnally, to the you2 of shared experience; the environmentalist moves from in-
deﬁnite you (you3) to the you of shared experience (you2), to the ﬁrst person pro-
nominal forms and, ﬁnally to direct address you (you1); and, the expert moves
from we and the you of shared experience (you2) to direct address you (you1),
to indeﬁnite you (you3) and ﬁnally to I.
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 401
Table 4: Distancing scales for the three speakers
Politician 0 1 2 3
I we you1 you2
Environmentalist 0 1 2 3
You3 you2 I/we you1
Expert 0 1 2 3
We/you2 you1 you3 I
These results illustrate very diﬀerent positioning strategies in the three speakers,
with a preference for ﬁrst person positioning in the politician, which emphasizes
the attitudes and actions carried out by the politician and the political party he
belongs to. This contrasts with the preference of the environmentalist for second
person positioning and the expert’s preference for a positioning which includes
the third person plural and the you of shared experience. In the case of the
environmentalist, the frequency of indeﬁnite you and the use of shared expe-
rience you stress a strategy of solidarity with the audience, while the similar
use of we and shared experience you in the expert seem to indicate both a
strategy of solidarity with the audience as in the environmentalist and the need
to situate the speaker’s responsibility within the work of the experts and the group
the speaker belongs to.
The next section examines the co-occurrence of the pronominal forms dis-
cussed above with the categories of engagement described in Martin and White
(2005), with the aim of analysing its eﬀects on the construction of subject posi-
tions and public identities.
4.3 Co-occurrence of Engagement markers and pronominal
forms: Implications for the expression of subject
positioning and identity construction
The analysis of the co-occurrence of engagement categories with the pronominal
forms I, we and you shows that the frequency is not very high, though there
are some interesting cases which are worth discussing. Table 5 shows the co-
occurrence of pronominal forms with each of the engagement categories. As
can be observed, there is a relevant frequency of co-occurrence of the personal
pronoun I with markers of Disclaim (5 instances) and Cognition (10 instances) in
the politician, while the pronoun we co-occurs with markers of cognition also in
the politician (4 instances) and with cognition and possibility in the expert, and
ﬁnally, the pronoun you co-occurs with possibility in both the environmentalist
and the expert (4 and 3 instances, respectively). These results are discussed in
further detail below.
402 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
Table 5: Co-occurrence of personal pronouns and stance categories in the three speakers
Categories I We You
P EN EX P EN EX P EN EX
Disclaim 5 – – 3 – – 2 1 1
Proclaim 1 – – – – – – 1 –
Obligation – – – 4 2 1 1 1 –
Possibility/Probability – – – 1 – 3 – 9 3
Evidence/Appearance 1 – – – – – – – 2
Cognition 10 2 5 1 2 4 – 1 –
Attribution – – – – – – 2 – –
4.3.1 First person pronouns
The frequent use of the ﬁrst person pronoun I with the stance category of Cogni-
tion shows high subjective involvement of the speaker, as illustrated by examples
(54)–(56):
(53) JP: Do some of these things strike you as the sign of a man who’s got a
tight grip on his party?
DM: It speaks to a man who actually believes that we’ve got to get the
right relation between Westminster and the nations of Britain. I think
that’s the right thing we’ve got leaders of the Scottish party articulating
policy. It’s a good thing. (P)
(54) [[I]] do think that it is the most legitimate use of jet fuel that we’ve got.
(EN)
(55) I think that it would be premature, it will be wrong to think that indus-
trialized nations are actually immune to these problems. (EX)
In example (53) it is interesting to observe the politician’s movement from the
more impersonal referent “a man who actually believes” to the concrete subjec-
tive form I. As pointed out above, instances of Cognition are the most numerous
in the politician. In this connection, Wilson (1990: 62) observes that the cluster
“I think” is a common feature in Mrs. Thatcher’s discourse, and reﬂects intrinsic
attitudes, especially sincerity.
Of particular interest is the co-occurrence of I with the category Disclaim.
The speaker positions himself as challenging the interviewer’s view in a dialec-
tical battle. That is, negation seems to be used here as a mechanism of both self-
defence and self-aﬃrmation, as illustrated by examples (56) and (57) below:
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 403
(56) JP: Well, I put it to you that this is all very good, you know, and and
aspirational stuﬀ, but none of it, is remotely practical.
DM: Well, no, I set out in my speech tonight ﬁve ways in which we are
going to make progress and, I think what’s important you call it aspira-
tional and I plead guilty to that, but remember people are paying 1 pound
24 for a litre of petrol because demand for oil far outstrips supplies. (P)
(57) JP: Well, DM is gonna answer most of those on our website I believe
tomorrow, aren’t you? But let me take just one of them ﬁrst of all, Graham
Nixon. He says you believe in a low carbon economy, you can’t therefore
believe in a third runway at Heathrow airport.
DM: I don’t think that’s right we believe that the climate change bill
which has got cross party support which the Prime Minister’s led through
the House of Commons is gonna require that our carbon emissions come
down by about 60% least 60% by 2050 (P).
With regard to the plural ﬁrst person pronoun we, the three speakers use this
pronoun with the categories Obligation and Cognition, as shown by examples
(58)–(59) and (60)–(62), respectively. Interestingly, whereas the politician’s dis-
course exhibits a higher use of the cluster “we+ Obligation”, the scientist’s
discourse shows a preference for the cluster “we+ Cognition” and no instances
of this pronoun with the category of Obligation, thus avoiding the expression of
an authoritative stance. This is consistent with the fact that scientiﬁc discourse
is prototypically characterised by tentativeness in the presentation of new hypoth-
eses and results. In fact, the expert’s discourse shows a higher use of we with
the category Possibility (see example 63):
(58) . . . if we cannot mitigate the eﬀects of climate change then we should
help them adapt if that means they can’t live where they were living they
we have to help and support life somewhere else. (P)
(59) The scale of the problem is so large that [[we]] need to get change ﬁrst
out of Washington, and then internationally, in some forum. . . (EN)
(60) I don’t think that’s right, [[we]] believe that the climate change bill which
has got cross party support. . . (P)
(61) [[We]] all know what Third-World cities that triple in population are
supposed to look like. . . (EN)
404 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
(62) [[we]] know that the industrialized world is causing global warming with
all the greenhouse gas. . . (EX)
(63) And in fact of the leading causes of death in this country, most of them
are related to either sedentary lifestyle, air pollution or motor vehicle
accidents and if [[we]] could begin to confront climate change and
have greener cities and more walkability and bikeability, we would have
increased level of ﬁtness, reduced air pollution, and reduced greenhouse
gases. (EX)
As can be observed from examples (58)–(59) above, although both the poli-
tician and the environmentalist use a national or social we with verbs expressing
deontic modality, there are diﬀerences as regards the meaning expressed by the
modal verb. Whilst the politician uses mild obligation (“we should”, “we have
to”) within a hypothetical framework, which occasionally is linked to “good
sense”, the environmentalist focuses on the current need to change social action
(“we need to”, “people need”).
Another major diﬀerence concerns the co-occurrence of the pronoun we
with Disclaim. This cluster is only present in the politician’s discourse and it
might be interpreted as the speaker’s attempt to justify the views of his political
party:
(64) DM: This is something I addressed in the lecture that I gave tonight and
that you referred to. The EU has a commitment to ensure that 15 power
stations around Europe are built with carbon capture and storage tech-
nology and Britain actually has one of the only competitions that have
been run with public funding to ensure that’s achieved.
JP: But IT CANNOT begin producing power without carbon capture being
operational there, can it.
DM: ..O. . .In respect of this competition for a carbon capture ‘n storage
facility with a new power station the Kings Norton, Kings North thing is a
separate decision obviously. But we have an energy mix which includes. . .
JP: All right. Could we have new coal ﬁre power stations without their
being integral and operational carbon capture facility from the day 1.
4.3.2 Second-person pronouns
With regard to the second person pronoun you, it is interesting to observe that
the three speakers use this pronoun with Disclaim and Denial, as illustrated by
examples (65), (66) and (67) below. This use may suggest that the three speakers
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 405
opt for a displacement of the deictic centre to a position closer to the addressee
in order to avoid responsibility in dispreferred speech acts with indicate denial
or counterargumentation.
(65) JP: . . . are are you to be really taken seriously as a government that cares
about reducing carbon emissions if you are not prepared to do something
which may be electorally unpopular?
DM: [[But]] Hang on, hang on, the test is our greenhouse gas emissions
going down. They’ve gone down in this country over the last ten years,
they’ve gone down by about 8%, by their deeds shall ye know them
indeed, and what [[you1]] should know is the greenhouse gas emissions
have gone down. . . (P)
(66) It’s just obvious that this is what you would do. But as soon as [[you2]]
are exposed to the idea that it is not obvious and there are other ways of
doing things, then you. . . (EN)
(67) . . .there will be fewer deaths from cold-related mortality, that’s true,
but when [[you2]] take these in aggregate and you look across all of the
climate-sensitive outcomes. . . (EX)
As previously discussed, whereas in the discourse of the politician you refers
to the interviewer, in the discourse of the environmentalist and the expert you
is used by the speakers to present their own experience or expectations as
something that can be shared by the audience. This tendency could be inter-
preted as in line with their aims to make society aware of the problems, causes
and consequences of global warming. Likewise, the politician’s discourse exhibits
uses of you that co-occur with the Attribution category, in which the politician
distances himself from the interviewer’s perspective, as in example (32), renum-
bered here as (68):
(68) I set out tonight ﬁve ways in which we are going to make progress and I
think what’s important [[you]] call it aspirational and I plead guilty to
that, but remember people are paying. . . (P)
With regard to the co-occurrence of the pronoun you with other categories,
it can be pointed out that both expert and environmentalist use you2 with possi-
bility markers, which is consistent with the speakers’ interest in treating the
problem of global warming as one that concerns everybody.
406 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
(69) [I was also] in village India [where [[you2]] can’t travel far] without
running across reminders of Gandhi. (EN)
(70) you think about agriculture and other means of, you know, energy and
what we are actually using, [[you2]] could make the counter argument
that in fact our market, where we are actually importing. . . (EX)
As can be observed from the previous analysis, relevant diﬀerences in the
co-occurrence and distribution of pronouns and engagement markers concern
mainly the use of the I and you forms. While the politician shows a higher use
of the pronoun I, typically followed by verbs of cognition, the environmentalist
and the expert exhibit more uses of the pronoun you, which function often as a
displaced deictic centre aimed at constructing a space of shared experience, that
is, as a you2.
5 Conclusions
This article has explored the role of modality and personal pronouns as indexical
markers in the construction of subject position and identity. The analysis of
three interviews to public social ﬁgures (a politician, an environmentalist and a
scientist) shows diﬀerences in the distribution and use of these features.
Regarding the expression of stance markers within the domain of Engage-
ment, the analysis has shown diﬀerences related to the speakers’ communicative
goals. Thus, the politician’s discourse shows the highest frequency of Engage-
ment resources in all categories, with a preference for markers of Dialogic Con-
traction, which seems to point to high subjective involvement of the speaker
towards the information proferred and more contracted space for other alter-
natives. Within the subcategories of Dialogic Expansion, the main diﬀerences
concern the categories of Possibility, Obligation and Cognition. Whereas the
scientist’s discourse shows a higher frequency of epistemic markers of Possibility,
thus tentatively expressing possible causes and consequences of global warming,
the environmentalist’s and politician’s discourses show a higher number of
instances of Obligation, deontic modals being mainly used to express the need
for social action or an advisable course of action, respectively. Furthermore,
modal markers of Cognition are more frequent in the politician’s discourse and
introduce the speaker’s own political views or his party’s beliefs.
As far as the distribution and use of pronouns in combination with engage-
ment markers, major diﬀerences concern the use of ﬁrst person pronouns and
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 407
their occurrence with verbs of cognition. Whilst the politician’s discourse exhibits
more instances of the cluster “I think”, the environmentalist’s and the scientist’s
discourses show a more frequent use of verbs of cognition with the pronoun we
(e.g. “we know”), which is found to refer either to people or to the scientiﬁc
community, respectively. By contrast, in the politician’s discourse, we mainly
represents the speaker’s party or the whole nation and tends to collocate with
modal verbs expressing deontic modality (e.g. “we have to”). With regard to the
use of the pronoun you, our data suggest that in the discourse of the envi-
ronmentalist and the expert this form is used to displace the deictic centre to
an intermediate position that is closer to the addressee and which creates a
space where both addressee and constructed audience are invited to enter.
When using the pronoun you, the politician tends to do so with verbs of saying
(e.g. “you call it aspirational”, “you referred to”), thus distancing himself from
the interviewer’s point of view or presenting this information in a neutral way.
On the other hand, the environmentalist and the expert seem to make extensive
use of what we have called the displaced deictic centre you, thus presenting the
issue of global warming as one that aﬀects everyone and focusing mainly on
what can or cannot be done (Possibility/Probability). These ﬁndings lend support
to Chilton’s (2004) view of personal pronouns as indexical markers and Hanks’
(2009) argument in favour of a revision of the concept of deictic centre.
All in all, the analysis suggests that the use and distribution of stance markers
of modality and pronominal forms seem to correlate with diﬀerences in the way
that speakers construct their public identities. These diﬀerent representations
are, in turn, in accordance with the particular aims of their social/political
group, namely, present themselves in positive terms and legitimise a political
position, raise environmental awareness or draw attention to the causes of
global warming and its eﬀects on health.
Primary sources
Interview to David Milliband
http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/newsnight/7390068.stm
Interview to environmentalist Bill McKibben
http://www.abroadview.org/avmag/2008spring.htm
Interview to public health expert Dr. Jonathan Patz
http://www.scientiﬁcamerican.com/podcast/episode.cfm?id=173BE356-E7F2-99DF-
3E8DA11E99F7F3BE
408 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
References
Bakhtin, Mikhail. 1986. Speech Genres and Other late Essays. Caryl Emerson and Michael
Holquist (eds.), trans. Vern W. McGee. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Bednarek, Monika (ed.). 2008. Functions of Language 15(1), special issue on appraisal, evalua-
tion and stance. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999. The
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Biber, Douglas and Edward Finegan. 1989. Styles of stance in English: Lexical and grammatical
marking of evidentiality and aﬀect. Text 1: 93–124.
Bybee, Joan and Suzanne Fleischman (eds.). 1995. Modality in Grammar and Discourse. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Chafe, Wallace L. 1986. Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In: Wallace
Chafe and JohannaNichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
261–272. New York: Ablex.
Chilton, Paul. 2004. Analysing Political Discourse: Theory and Practice. London: Routledge.
Chilton, Paul and Christina Shäﬀner. 1997. Discourse and Politics. In: Teun van Dijk (ed.), Dis-
course as Social Interaction. Discourse Studies: A Multidisciplinary Introduction, Volume
2, 206–210. London/Thousand Oaks/New Delhi: Sage Publications.
Cockroft, Robert, Susan Cockroft, Craig Hamilton and Laura Hidalgo Downing. 2013. Persuading
People. An Introduction to Rhetoric, 3rd revised edition. Basingstoke: Palgrave, MacMillan.
Davidse, Kristin and Anne Marie Simon-Vandenbergen (eds.). 2002. Functions of Language
8(2), Special issue on interpersonal grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
de Fina, Anna, Deborah Schiﬀrin and Michael Bamberg. 2006. Introduction. In: Anna de Fina,
Deborah Schiﬀrin and Michael Bamberg (eds.), Discourse and Identity, 1–23. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Du Bois, John. 2007. The stance triangle. In: Robert Englebretson (ed.), Stancetaking in Discourse,
139–182. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Englebretson, Robert (ed.). 2007. Stancetaking in Discourse. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Etelämäki, Marja. 2008. The Finnish personal pronouns in the light of interaction. Journal of
Pragmatics 41: 25–46.
Fairclough, Norman. 1989. Language and Power. London: Longman.
Fairclough, Norman. 1992. Discourse and Social Change. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Hanks, William F. 1992. The indexical ground of deictic reference. In: Alessandro Duranti and
Charles Goodwin (eds.), Rethinking Context. Language as an Interactive Phenomenon,
43–76. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hanks, William F. 2009. Fieldwork on deixis. Journal of Pragmatics 41: 10–24.
Halliday, Michael A.K. 1994. An Introduction to Functional Grammar, 2nd edition. London:
Edward Arnold.
Halliday, Michael A.K. and James R. Martin (eds.). 1993. Writing Science: Literacy and Discursive
Power. London: The Falmer Press.
Hidalgo Downing, Laura. 2000a. Alice in Pragmaticland: Reference, deixis and the delimitation
of text worlds. CLAC 2. Available from http://www.ucm.es/info/circulo/no2/hidalgo.htm
Hidalgo Downing, Laura. 2000b. World creation in advertising discourse. Revista Alicantina de
Estudios Ingleses 13: 67–88. Reprinted in CLAC 13. Available from http://www.ucm.es/
info/circulo/no13/hidalgo.pdf
Modality and personal pronouns as indexical markers of stance 409
Hidalgo Downing, Laura. 2004. Non-verbal markers of modality and evidentiality in a comparable
corpus of English and Spanish editorials and news articles. In: Juana Marín-Arrese (ed.),
Perspectives on Modality and Evidentiality, 205–228. Madrid: Editorial Complutense.
Hunston, Susan and Geoﬀ Thompson (eds.). 1999. Evaluation in Text: Authorial Stance and the
Construction of Discourse. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kristeva, Julia. 1986. Word, dialogue and novel. In: Toril Moi (ed.), The Kristeva Reader, 34–61.
Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Levinson, Stephen. 2004. Deixis. In: Lawrence Horn and Gregory Ward (eds.), The Handbook of
Pragmatics, 97–121. Oxford: Blackwell.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. (ed.). 2004. Perspectives on Modality and Evidentiality. Madrid: Editorial
Complutense.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2009. Eﬀective vs. epistemic stance and subjectivity/intersubjectivity
in political discourse: A case study. In: Anastasios Tsangalidis and Roberta Facchinetti
(eds.), Studies on English Modality. In Honour of Frank R. Palmer, 23–52. Berlin: Peter Lang.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. and Begoña Núñez-Perucha. 2006. Evaluation and Engagement in Jour-
nalistic Commentary and News Reportage. Revista Alicantina de Estudios Ingleses 19:
225–248.
Martin, James R. 2003. Introduction. Text. Special Issue on Stance and Appraisal 23(2): 171–181.
Martin, James and Peter White. 2005. The Language of Evaluation. Appraisal in English. New
York: Palgrave.
Myers, Greg and Soﬁa Lampropoulou. 2012. Impersonal you and stance-taking in social sciences
interviews. Journal of Pragmatics 44(10): 1206–1218.
Núñez-Perucha, Begoña. 2001. Aportaciones de la Lingüística Cognitiva a un análisis pragmá-
tico del sistema pronominal. In: Ana Isabel Moreno and Vera Colwell (eds.), Perspectivas
Recientes sobre el Discurso / Recent Perspectives on Discourse. CD-ROM Edition. León:
Universidad de León and AESLA.
Palmer, F.R. 1986. Mood and Modality in English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Stirling, Lesley and Lenore Manderson. 2011. About you: empathy, objectivity and authority.
Journal of Pragmatics 43(6): 1581–1602.
Thompson, Geoﬀ and Susan Hunston. 1999. Evaluation: An Introduction. In: Susan Hunstonand
and Geoﬀ Thompson (eds.), Evaluation in Text: Authorial Stance and the Construction of
Discourse, 1–26. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Van Dijk, Teun A. 1998. Ideology. A Multidisciplinary Approach. London, Thousand Oaks, New
Delhi: Sage.
Werth, Paul. 1999. Text Worlds: Representing Conceptual Space in Discourse. London: Longman.
White, Peter. 2003. Beyond modality and hedging: A dialogic view of the language of inter-
subjective stance. Text 23(2): 259–284.
Wilson, John. 1990. Politically Speaking. Oxford and Cambridge, M.A.: Basil Blackwell.
410 Laura Hidalgo Downing and Begoña Núñez Perucha
Juana I. Marín-Arrese
Stancetaking and inter/subjectivity in the
Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown1
1 Introduction
The multifaceted nature of stance has been associated with concepts such as
evaluation, inter/subjectivivity and positioning in the discourse. Stancetaking is
a form of social action, involving the expression of the speaker/writer’s personal
attitudes, beliefs or assessments concerning events and their commitment with
respect to the communicated proposition. Stance is indexical of the speaker/
writer’s subjective or intersubjective construal of the stance object, and their
positioning and alignment with other voices in the discourse. Stance is also
consequential in that it involves responsibility for the evaluated information
and consequences for the stancetaker in social terms (Biber and Finegan 1989;
Hunston and Thompson 2000; Berman 2004; Du Bois 2007; Englebretson 2007;
Marín-Arrese 2007a, 2009).
This paper draws on a model for the analysis of stancetaking in discourse
on the basis of two macro categories of stance, the eﬀective and the epistemic,
which are systematically related with the indexing of inter/subjectivity (Marín-
Arrese 2009). These stance categories are based on Langacker’s (2007, 2009,
this volume) distinction between the eﬀective and the epistemic level, which
involves a systematic opposition manifested in the language between those
expressions pertaining to the conceptualizer’s striving for control of relations at
the level of reality and of control of conceptions of reality. Eﬀective stance acts
are aimed at determining or inﬂuencing the course of reality itself, and play a
direct role in persuasion and in the legitimisation of actions. They include speaker/
writer’s expression of norms, obligations and compelling or enabling circum-
stances, and in his/her inclination, decision or intention to carry out an event.
Epistemic stance acts pertain to epistemic control of the conception of reality,
to the degree of certainty of the speaker/writer regarding the occurrence, and/
or to his/her assessment of the validity of the proposition describing the event,
and are aimed at the legitimisation of assertions, thus playing an indirect role in
1 Research for this paper has been carried out with the support of Research Project FFI2011-
23181, funded by the Spanish Ministerio de Economia y Competitividad (Ministry of Economy
and Competitiveness).
legitimising actions. Epistemic stance resources include modal auxiliaries, eviden-
tials, and a variety of expressions of cognitive attitude, assessment, and factivity
(Chafe 1986; Willett 1988; van der Auwera and Plungian 1998; Dendale and
Tasmowski 2001; Plungian 2001; Palmer 2001; Aikhenvald 2004; Marín-Arrese
2004, inter alia).
The focus in this paper is on the category of epistemic stance, which pertains
to the positioning of the speaker/writer with respect to knowledge. Epistemic
stance expressions index the way speakers/writers position themselves (subjec-
tivity), both explicitly and implicitly, with regard to the validity of their asser-
tions, and how they align/disalign with potential addressees or text external
voices (intersubjectivity). Meanings expressed by these linguistic elements involve
both contentful and procedural aspects (Blakemore 1987; Traugott and Dasher
2002). Epistemic modals express speaker/writer’s diﬀering degrees of certainty
regarding the event, and are also indexical of the speaker/writer’s subjective
positioning. Similarly, evidential expressions indicate the source of informa-
tion, while reﬂecting speaker/writer’s subjective/intersubjective estimation of
the validity of the information on the basis of its source and mode of access
(Mushin 2001; Marín-Arrese 2006, 2011b). Epistemic stance expressions and the
dimensions of subjectivity and intersubjectivity also relate to the responsibility
of the stancetaker (Nuyts 2001, 2012; Englebretson 2007). Nuyts (2001) conceives
the dimension of subjectivity vs. intersubjectivity in terms of the degree to which
the speaker assumes personal responsibility for the evaluation of the state of
aﬀairs (subjectivity), or whether the assessment is potentially shared by others
(intersubjectivity). On the basis of the notions of subjective construal, inter-
subjective positioning, and responsibility of the stancetaker, a set of categories
of subjectivity and intersubjectivity is proposed resulting from the interaction
of two parameters: degrees of “salience and explicitness of the role of the con-
ceptualizer” and “degree to which the speaker/writer assumes personal respon-
sibility for the information or presents the information as intersubjectively
shared”.
The use of stance resources may also index the speaker/writer’s interac-
tional identity and his/her use of rhetorical strategies in the discourse, and their
ideological positionings. Bucholtz and Hall (2005: 585) deﬁne identity as “the
social positioning of self and other”, and argue that identity is a sociocultural
phenomenon, which is intersubjectively produced and constituted discursively.
They point out that among other linguistic expressions, identities may be linguis-
tically indexed through speciﬁc stances. In a similar vein, Johnstone (2007: 52)
argues that although little attention has been paid to individual speakers in the
literature on identities, “a repeated stancetaking move or pattern of moves may
emerge as an identity”.
412 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
This paper aims to characterize the stancetaking discursive patterns of Tony
Blair and Gordon Brown, and make visible their preferred legitimising strategies,
in their oral evidence in the Iraq War Inquiry (2009). The paper presents results
of a case study on the presence and distribution of epistemic stance markers
and the indexing of inter/subjectivity by the two former British Prime Ministers.
It will be argued that their interactional identities will emerge strategically in
this communicative situation, mediated by their social role and the perceived
responsibility for the decisions and events under investigation in the inquiry.
Their intended discursive legitimisation of the events will be reﬂected in their
epistemic stance strategies and their expression of inter/subjectivity.
The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the domain of epistemic
stance, and includes some observations on legitimising strategies in discourse.
The notions of subjectivity and intersubjectivity are discussed in section 3. The
case study is described in section 4. The results and discussion are presented in
section 5. The ﬁnal section is devoted to the conclusions.
2 The domain of epistemic stance
2.1 Stancetaking and legitimising strategies in discourse
The framework presented here is based on a model of stance (Marín-Arrese 2009)
which integrates Langacker’s (2007, 2009, this volume) distinction between the
eﬀective and epistemic levels in language with work on stance (Du Bois 2007;
Englebretson 2007) and engagement (White 2003; Martin and White 2005). As
Martin and White (2005: 92) observe, there is a tradition in discourse studies in
which “all utterances are seen as in some way stanced or attitudinal”. Engage-
ment resources “provide the means for the authorial voice to position itself with
respect to, and hence to “engage” with, the other voices and alternative posi-
tions construed as being in play in the current communicative context” (Martin
and White 2005: 94). Though the classiﬁcation diﬀers, expressions of engagement
identiﬁed by Martin and White also include epistemic modals and evidentials.
Within the various perspectives on stance, Englebretson (2007: 6) observes
that there are ﬁve key conceptual principles in common:
(1) stancetaking occurs on three (often overlapping) levels – stance is physical action,
stance is personal attitude/belief/evaluation, and stance is social morality; (2) stance is
public, and is perceivable, interpretable, and available for inspection by others [. . .]; (3)
stance is interactional in nature – it is collaboratively constructed among participants,
and with respect to other stances [. . .]; (4) stance is indexical (cf. Haviland 1989; Silver-
stein 1976), evoking aspects of the broader sociocultural framework or physical contexts
in which it occurs; (5) stance is consequential – i.e., taking a stand leads to real conse-
quences for the persons or institutions involved [. . .].
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 413
The model posits two macro-categories of stance, the eﬀective and the epistemic
(Marín-Arrese 2009, 2011a):
Eﬀective stance pertains to the positioning of the speaker/writer with respect to the real-
ization of events, to the ways in which the speaker/writer carries out a stance act aimed at
determining or inﬂuencing the course of reality itself.
Epistemic stance pertains to the positioning of the speaker/writer with respect to knowl-
edge concerning the event and their commitment to the validity of the information. These
are stance acts assessing the reality of the event designated or the likelihood of its realiza-
tion, and/or specifying the sources whereby the speaker/writer feels entitled to make an
assertion, which may involve an estimation of their evidentiary reliability.
Stancetaking resources may serve the strategic function of legitimisation in dis-
course. The use of eﬀective stance markers signal the speaker/writer’s position
with regard to the necessity or desirability of the realization of events; they are
intended to have an eﬀective or coercive persuasive eﬀect. In the case of episte-
mic stance markers, the speaker/writer’s concern is with the acceptance on the
part of the hearer of the knowledge of events, and of the validity status of the
information; they involve an epistemic legitimising strategy. As Chilton (2004:
117) observes, one basic type of legitimising strategy is essentially epistemic in
that it has to do “with the speaker’s claim to have better knowledge, recognition
of the ‘real facts’”. The acceptance of potentially fallacious arguments as true
draws on a set of cognitive mechanisms for epistemic vigilance (Sperber et al.
2010), which the speaker/writer may strategically exploit. Hart (2011: 6) makes
the point that “the legitimisation of assertions is then characterised as a process
by which speakers, in order to overcome the epistemic safeguards of their
audience, oﬀer ‘guarantees’ for the truth of their assertions in various forms of
evidence”.
The use of epistemic legitimising strategies counts as an attempt by the
speaker/writer to inﬂuence the hearer/reader’s exercise of epistemic vigilance
and accept the assertion as true. Epistemic stance resources may thus serve
ideological purposes in the management of hearers/readers’ acceptance of in-
formation in the discourse. By exploiting “epistemic legitimising strategies”,
speakers/writers may manipulate hearers/readers’ acceptance of the veracity of
their assertions, as a prior condition for the discursive legitimisation of actions,
in the latter case through “eﬀective legitimising strategies” (Marín-Arrese 2011b).
A related strategy pertains to the evocation of responsibility for assertions,
which crucially involves the domain of subjectivity/intersubjectivity (Marín-
Arrese 2011a). By means of these resources, speakers/writers not only manage
their interests with respect to their goal of persuasion, but also manage their
responsibility for the use of legitimising strategies, through strategies of mystiﬁ-
cation of responsibility such as implicitness and the appeal to shared knowl-
edge or assessments.
414 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
2.2 Epistemic modals, evidentials, and other epistemic
legitimising strategies
Epistemic stance involves the kind of meaning that refers to the belief, knowl-
edge or evidence that supports the truth of a proposition; as such it comprises
evidential, epistemic modal and factive meanings (Biber et al. 1999; Boye 2006,
2010a; Boye and Harder 2009; Marín-Arrese 2009, 2011a). The domains of epistemic
modality and evidentiality have been amply discussed in the literature, but various
issues still remain largely unresolved, such as the status and relation of these
domains, and the criteria for diﬀerentiation of evidential and modal meanings
(Givon 1982; van der Auwera and Plungian 1998; de Haan 1999, Palmer 2001;
Aikhenvald 2004; Carretero 2004; Marín-Arrese 2004; Boye and Harder 2009;
Wiemer 2010, inter alia).
Epistemic modality pertains to speaker/writer’s assessments concerning the
epistemic status of events. Epistemic modals express diﬀerent degrees of speaker/
writer certainty regarding the reality or likelihood of the event designated in a
proposition, the proﬁled process (Langacker 1991, 2008). Evidentiality pertains
to the sources of knowledge or evidence whereby the speaker/writer feels enti-
tled to make an assertion; evidentials may also involve indications regarding
the reliability of the source, and thus speaker/writer attitude towards the validity
of the communicated proposition (Marín Arrese 2009).
Dendale and Tasmowski (2001: 341–2) note that three kinds of relations
between these domains can be found in the literature: “disjunction (where they
are conceptually distinguished from each other), inclusion (where one is regarded
as falling within the semantic scope of the other), and overlap (where they partly
intersect)”. The ﬁrst position, which establishes a semantic distinction between
both domains, holds that evidentiality is restricted to the identiﬁcation of the
source and means whereby information is available to the speaker/writer, and
is devoid of any epistemic judgement (De Haan 1999; Aikhenvald 2004). A
broader conception of evidentiality includes both the source of information and
an estimation of its reliability (Chafe 1986). The relation of inclusion diﬀers
according to which domain is considered the superordinate category. Some,
like Papafragou (2000) and Ifantidou (2001), view epistemic modality as a sub-
ordinate category to evidentiality. Others, like Willett (1988) and Palmer (2001),
consider that evidentiality should be subsumed under the domain of modality.
The position that both domains partly intersect is held by van der Auwera and
Plungian (1998), who note that the interface between the two domains is that of
inferential evidentiality and epistemic necessity, as in the case of English must.
Squartini (2008: 922, 924) also observes that a characteristic feature of epistemic
modal must is that it very often involves circumstantial or generic inferential
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 415
meaning, in common with evidentials, in addition to its epistemic modal mean-
ing of degree of certainty.
(1) a. [Pointing to two people] They must be brother and sister. They are
so alike.
b. [The doorbell rings] That must/will be the postman.
c. [The doorbell rings] I was not expecting anybody. It may be the
postman.
The type of reasoning process in (1a), with a high certainty modal such as must,
based on external sensory evidence, has been deﬁned as a circumstantial infer-
ence (Anderson 1986: 274). In (1b), where either a high or a medium certainty
modal is acceptable, external sensory evidence is lacking, and the generic infer-
ential process is based on previous personal experience of the speaker/writer or
general world knowledge. Inferential processes also comprise conjectures,
which are neither based on external evidence or on previous knowledge, as in
(1c), which is typically found with modals may or might, involving low certainty.
The three inferential processes, as Squartini (2008: 925) observes,
. . .are diﬀerentiated along a parameter that is connected to the balance between the
speaker’s involvement as opposed to the import of external evidence. While in one of the
two poles (circumstantial inferences), the speaker’s own reasoning is heavily suplemented
by external sensory evidence, in the opposite pole, all external evidence is missing, the
speaker being solely responsible for the reasoning process. In between, the intermediate
area of generic inferences can be found with a balanced proportion of the speaker’s own
reasoning and external information deriving from general world knowledge.
This inferential gradient posited by Squartini (2008), and previously by Anderson
(1986), is distinct from a similar scale in terms of strength of knowledge, the epis-
temic scale. The inferential gradient and the epistemic scale can be considered
two independent dimensions (Anderson 1986: 284), though there are obvious
connections between the two, as can be seen in the examples in (1). As Squartini
(2008: 926) notes, “an inferential process based on external sensory evidence
corresponds to a stronger epistemic commitment, while the speaker’s conjec-
tures, lacking any sensory support, are intrinsically weaker if evaluated on an
epistemic scale (Givon 1982)”. Thus circumstantial inferences are characteristi-
cally linked to epistemic certainty, while conjectures are related to epistemic
possibility. The modal must, however, shares the same functional-conceptual
substance domain (cf. Boye and Harder 2009) as the other modals (will, may,
might), which is reﬂected in the overlap with the modal will in the intermediate
area of generic inferences.
416 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
A further distinctive feature between the two scales, the inferential and the
epistemic, involves the speciﬁcation of the source of evidence and the dimension
of subjectivity and intersubjectivity. The epistemic scale is intrinsically subjective,
and the reasoning process is internal with respect to the speaker. However, in
the inferential gradient we ﬁnd a distinction between conjectures, which involve
an internal source and subjective reasoning, and circumstantial inferences,
based on external evidence, which might be potentially intersubjectively shared
with the audience, and which motivate a more objective kind of reasoning.
In the intermediate area of generic inferences, we ﬁnd an overlap between sub-
jective, internal experience and a more intersubjective world knowledge (cf.
Squartini 2008). Since inferential meaning may be present in the use of all
the epistemic modals, the criterion of inferentiality is not suﬃcient to warrant
classifying modal must as an evidential marker. There are thus obvious connec-
tions between epistemic modality and evidentiality, though the two domains are
formally and functionally distinct.
Boye (2006) argues that both domains are subcategories of the same super-
ordinate category, namely a category of epistemicity. As Boye (2010a: 10) observes,
“epistemic expressions are taken to comprise linguistic items and constructions
(grammatical as well as lexical) that express either source of information or degree
of (un)certainty, or both”. He makes the point, however, that there is linguistic
evidence that both semantic regions are clearly distinct: “Expressions are found
that indicate degree of certainty but not source of information, and expressions
are found that indicate source of information but not degree of certainty” (Boye
2010a: 16).
Diﬀerent subdivisions of the domain of evidentiality can be found in the
literature. Chafe (1986: 263) identiﬁes four characterising features within the
evidential system: the reliability of the information or the probability of its truth,
the modes of knowing or the ways in which knowledge is acquired (belief,
induction, hearsay, deduction), and the sources of knowledge (language in the
case of hearsay, evidence in the case of induction, hypothesis for deduction).
Plungian (2001: 353), for his part, distinguishes between sources and forms of
access to the information (direct vs. indirect evidence) and speaker’s involvement
(personal vs. mediated evidence). The combination of these parameters results in
a three-way distinction of evidential values: (a) Direct personal evidence, which
includes visual and sensoric evidence, as well as an endophoric category to
express “speaker’s inner state”; (b) Reﬂected evidence, that is, personal indirect
access to the evidence through “Synchronous inference: ‘P, because I can observe
some signs of P’ [P at T0]”, “Retrospective inference: ‘P, because I can observe
some traces of P’ [P before T0]”, or “Reasoning: ‘P, because I know Q, and I
know that Q entails P’”; (c) Mediated evidence, involving indirect access to the
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 417
information through some other person’s statements or beliefs (Plungian 2001:
354). In the category of reﬂected evidence, both synchronous inference and
retrospective inference, as in (2a) and (2b), are cases of circumstantial infer-
ences. In both cases, we may substitute modal must for the inferential evidential
seem. However, in (2c), which exempliﬁes reasoning presumably corresponding
to a generic inference, substitution by seem does not appear to be so straight-
forward. Inferential evidential seem appears to be restricted to circumstantial or
reportive inferences, whereas the use of modal must is somewhat awkward in a
reportive context.
(2) a. He must be/seems to be hungry (because he shows signs of it, etc.)
b. He must have/seems to have slept there (because we see his untidy
bed, etc.)
c. Today there must be/?seems to be a fair in Salzburg (because I know
the routines of this region, etc.)
d. From what I’ve heard there ?must/seems to be a fair in Salzburg today.
More recently, Aikhenvald (2004: 367) has identiﬁed the following semantic
parameters for grammatical evidentiality:
I. VISUAL which covers evidence acquired through seeing;
II. SENSORY which covers evidence acquired through hearing, and is typically extended to
smell and taste, and sometimes also touch;
III. INFERENCE based on visible or tangible evidence or result;
IV. ASSUMPTION based on evidence other than visible results: this may include logical
reasoning, assumption, or simply general knowledge;
V. HEARSAY, for reported information with no reference to whom it was reported by; and
VI. QUOTATIVE, for reported information with an overt reference to the quoted information.
Squartini (2008: 918) argues for the need to distinguish between “the mode of
knowing or type of evidence as opposed to the source of evidence”. The source
of evidence refers to the locus of information, as internal or external to the
speaker/writer. The modes of knowing refer to the process whereby the informa-
tion is accessed, whether directly perceptual or indirectly through inferences or
through reports.
The present study proposes a classiﬁcation of epistemic stance strategies
which takes into account, in a non-hierarchical way, the following parameters:
(i) domain of evidence2 (experiential, cognitive, communicative); (ii) modes of
2 The domains of evidence are related to the diﬀerent levels of experience: perceptual, mental,
social (cf. Langacker 1991).
418 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
knowing (direct vs. indirect); (iii) source (internal vs. external to the speaker/
writer). The combination of the three parameters would yield the following cate-
gories of evidentials and pseudo evidential strategies of stance which include
instances where the proﬁled occurrence is immediate to the ground (I can see),
as well as cases of non-immediacy (We had seen) (cf. Langacker 2009). Examples
from the oral evidence by Tony Blair (TB) and Gordon Brown (GB) in the Iraq
War Inquiry (IWI) are given for each category:
(a) Experiential, Direct, External (EDE), which includes direct access to visual
and other sensory evidence, external to the speaker/writer.
(3) . . . that we had already seen <EP, EDE, IE> how much instability could be
caused by individual states that were either failed states or rogue states, . . .
(IWI, GB)
(b) Experiential, Indirect, External (EIE), which indicates inference on the basis
of “evidence after the fact” (De Haan 2001), or knowing through circum-
stantial inferences inferred on the basis of external sensory evidence.
(4) We were obviously worried that, after him, his two sons seemed <EP, EIE,
IVI> to be as bad, if not worse. (IWI, TB)
(c) Cognitive, Direct, Internal (CDI), which includes cognitive factives (I know)
and involves recourse to personal knowledge and encyclopaedic knowledge
(cf. Plungian’s (2001: 352) “endophoric value”).
(5) – and I know <EP, CDI, SE> you have gone through this in enormous detail
with Peter Goldsmith, (IWI, TB)
(d) Cognitive, Indirect, Internal (CII), which groups together speaker/writer’s
generic inferences, on the basis of knowledge of the world and encyclopaedic
knowledge, and conjectures or personal assumptions, on the basis of per-
sonal experience or knowledge.
(6) Therefore, you can still argue, I guess <EP, CII, SE>, that this sanctions
framework would have been successful, (IWI, TB)
I argue here, and elsewhere (Marín-Arrese 2006, 2009), that evidential strategies
which have direct bearing on the expression of speaker/writer’s epistemic stance
also include markers in the communicative domain, as in the following categories:
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 419
(e) Communicative, Direct, Internal (CMI), where the speaker/writer shifts from
the basic, unmarked enunciational position to assume an overt phatic or
emphatic mode by the use of performatives (Brandt 2004).
(7) All I’m saying <EP, CMI, SE> is that all the intelligence we received in, even
after the September dossier, was to the same eﬀect, that it wasn’t against
that. (IWI, TB)
(f) Communicative, Indirect, External (CME), which involves speaker/writer’s
inferences on the basis of knowledge originating in some text external
voice(s).
(8) It is absolutely clear <EP, CME, IVI> from the Iraq Survey Group, and
indeed the Butler Report deals with this, that he was concealing material
he should have delivered up to the UN, . . . (IWI, TB)
Within the domain of epistemic stance, reference must also be made to Mediated
evidentiality, that is, non-personal evidence where the mode of access is through
some other persons (this category is beyond the scope of the present study).
Mediated, Communicative, Direct, External (MCDE), these are stance expres-
sions which correspond to the category termed the Quotative in most classiﬁca-
tions of evidentiality, that involves information explicitly attributed to a speciﬁc
external source or text external voice(s), as in (9). Within this category we might
also group the category Hearsay, which reproduces knowledge originating in some
external voice(s), and includes, as Plungian (2001: 352) observes, “generalized,
second-hand information (presupposing an unknown or non-deﬁnite ‘anonymous’
author)”, as well as access to information on the basis of “tradition or common
knowledge (where no personal author is invoked)”.
(9) . . . and actually, towards the end of October, I think Geoﬀ Hoon said
<EP, MCDE> to me, “You have got to come and take certain decisions”.
(IWI, TB)
(10) So the very thing that, even back then, people were warning <EP, MCDE>
me, even with this tightening of the borders, it might work, it might not,
that tightening restriction had been dropped by the time you get to May
2002. (IWI, TB)
(11) I think it is at least arguable <EP, MCDE> that he was a threat and that,
had we taken that decision to leave him there with the intent, with an oil
price, not of $25, but of $100 a barrel, he would have had the intent, he
would have had the ﬁnancial means and we would have lost our nerve.
(IWI, TB)
420 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
A hybrid category, which has been included in the study, is that where the
speaker/writer refers to some personal prior utterance; these expressions are
non-immediate and self-quotative:
Personal/Mediated, Communicative, Direct, Internal (MCMI), where the speaker/
writer refers (textually or intertextually) to some prior utterance of his/hers.
(12) In the Chicago speech, in 1999, what I was doing was setting out very
clearly what I thought the consequences were of an interdependent world,
and what I was really saying <EP, MCMI, SE> was this: that whereas in
the past people might have thought that a security problem in one part of
the world can be divorced from its impact on another part, in the world
that was developing, we were no longer able to do that, not ﬁnancially,
not in terms of security, not in terms, actually, of the cultural issues.
(IWI, TB)
Evidential meanings have propositional scope, and as Boye (2010b: 292) argues,
scope is understood “in the speciﬁc sense of a meaning upon which evidential
meaning is conceptually dependent” (cf. Langacker 1991, for the notion of
conceptual dependence). Epistemic stance expressions comprise both lexical
and grammatical elements, the most common forms being modals and sentence
adverbs (evidently), complement-taking predicates (CTPs) involving perception
verbs (I hear), mental attitude verbs (I think), utterance verbs (I have to say),
and appearance verbs typically occurring in impersonal constructions (It seems
that). Within CTPs, Boye and Harder (2007: 583) argue that the most central or
prototypical cases are those which have undergone a process of grammaticaliza-
tion, and which are “predominantly present tense, indicative and declarative”.
Boye and Harder (2007: 589) point to the following syntactic-distributional phe-
nomena which mark the grammatical and secondary status of these epistemic
CTPs: “adverbial or NEG raising, semantically unrelated tag questions and the
occurrence of CTP clauses medially or ﬁnally with respect to the complement
clause”. However, due to the nature of the communicative situation and activity
type, involving oral evidence with regard to past events, it was considered
essential to include all those stance markers which might not be prototypical
evidentials, but which reﬂect the use of epistemic legitimising strategies on the
part of the witnesses.
Epistemic stance comprises factive predicates, which are generally deﬁned
as presupposing the truth of the proposition designated by their complement
clause (Kiparsky and Kiparsky 1970). Impersonal factive predicates such as It
is true, It is a fact, are included in a separate category of Factivity. The class of
cognitive factives such as know, be aware of, remember are included in the cate-
gory Cognitive, Direct, Internal, since they refer to knowledge available to the
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 421
speaker/writer. Predicates such as notice, discover, ﬁnd out, which indicate some
external source, would be grouped together with the subclass of sensory fac-
tives, such as see, hear, observe, within the category of Experiential, Direct, Exter-
nal. The use of emotive factive verbs, which focus on the emotional attitude
towards the information, regret, be glad, will not be addressed in this paper.
Likewise, both factive and non-factive instances of cognitive predicates used in
thought representation, as in “many people believe that”, or “the Americans were
aware that”, are beyond the scope of the present paper.
2.3 Commitment, responsibility and inter/subjectivity
Within the literature there has been considerable discussion on the issue of
certainty regarding the event designated, as expressed by epistemic modals, or
the reliability of the evidential sources, that is, the ways in which the informa-
tion may be assigned an estimation of its validity. Observational evidence has
traditionally been associated with a higher degree of reliability (Willett 1988),
whereas evidence based on reasoning suggests a more subjective, and lower
degree of reliability of the source, and thus less validity of the information
expressed. This will, of course, depend on the status of the source as expert or
otherwise prestigious position. Matlock (1989: 215) correlates type of speaker/
writer experience to degree of validity: “direct experience corresponds to a high
degree of certainty, indirect experience of the reported type corresponds to less
certainty, and indirect experience of the inferred type corresponds to even less
certainty”. Weber (1986: 137), however, refers to the notion of speaker/writer’s
perspective, which would include both an evidential value, where evidential
markers are used to indicate the source of the information, and a validational
attitude, which refers to speaker/writer’s commitment to the truth of the propo-
sition, the degree to which s/he is convinced or unconvinced about the evi-
dence. It is here argued that the degree of commitment of the speaker/writer
with respect to the communicated proposition is reﬂected in their assessment
of the reality of the event designated, or in the validity of the information, which
will depend on the reliability (conventionally) assigned to the source of evi-
dence, not only by speakers/writers but also by hearers/readers.
The diﬀerent modes of access to the information correlate with diﬀerent
values on a scale of speaker/writer’s commitment towards the validity of the
information. The various ways of framing a proposition (P) present a highly
complex system of epistemic positioning strategies that speakers/writers have
at their disposal for legitimising assertions. Within the domain of epistemic
stance assigning validity to the information involves a set of variables such as:
422 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
(i) whether the form of access to the information is direct or indirect: Direct evi-
dence (I saw P) would rank higher in evidentiary validity than indirect cir-
cumstantial inferences (It seems P) and indirect generic inferences or con-
jectures (I think);
(ii) whether the form of access to the information is designated by a predicate
involving higher or lesser degree of control on the part of the “actor” (cf. the
“potential”, “action” and “result phases”, Langacker 2009, this volume): Fac-
tive attributions of knowledge (I know P), which reﬂect the result phase, typi-
cally imply the truth of the proposition, in contrast with nonfactives (I think
P), which reﬂect the potential phase;
(iii) whether the mode of access to the evidence invokes experiential (I saw P),
cognitive (I know P), or communicative events (I say to you P): The reliability
assigned by hearers/readers to cognitive and reportive evidentials would
depend of the “evidential standing” of speaker/writer as source (White
2006: 64).
Experiential and cognitive factives, which presuppose the truth of the infor-
mation asserted, would rank higher on the scale of validity. Direct perceptual
evidence might seem to be aﬀorded higher evidentiary reliability by the hearer/
reader than cognitive or communicative evidence. I thus tentatively suggest a
continuum along the following lines:
Figure 1: Evidentiary Reliability
The variation observed in these dimensions would result in a wide range of
(co-constructed) assessments of the validity of the information, assigned by
the speaker/writer partly also on the basis of estimations of how this will be
perceived by the reader/hearer. The various epistemic and evidential expressions
can thus be associated with diﬀerent values of these dimensions.
In the case of mediated evidentiality, which as mentioned above is beyond
the scope of the present paper, the presumed validity of the information would
rely to a great extent on the reliability of the original source of the information,
whether s/he is considered an expert in the relevant ﬁeld, or s/he has a presti-
gious social status, or whether the information is considered warrantable on the
basis of its widespread or universal acceptability (It is believed P, Everybody
knows P). These are cases of what White (2006: 64) has termed “evidential
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 423
standing”, a mechanism frequently used in journalistic discourse whereby the
speaker/writer frames the proposition as highly warrantable, and at the same
time avoids taking responsibility for the information or assessment. Degree of
speaker/writer commitment to the credibility or plausibility of the attributed infor-
mation may also be reﬂected overtly by means of the mechanisms of “authorial
endorsement”, where the authorial voice simultaneously aligns with the “reported
value position” and “by implication, construe(s) it as true or otherwise warrant-
able”, and “authorial distancing”, where the authorial voice overtly distances
him/herself from the “reported value position” and “provide(s) a signal that
alternative or contrary viewpoints may be valid” (White 2006: 58–59).
There is an additional dimension involved, that of responsibility and account-
ability for the veracity of the information, which by default rests on the speaker/
writer. In this respect, it is also in the interest of speakers/writers to manage
their interests not only in regard to the legitimisation of assertions but also
with respect to the mystiﬁcation of their responsibility and accountability in
making such assertions, which involves choices in the expression of subjectivity
or intersubjectivity (Marín-Arrese 2009, 2011a):
(i) whether the evidential expression indexes subjectivity (I think P), which
involves personal responsibility for the information, intersubjectivity (We all
know P), where information is presented as involving shared responsibility, or
more objective positioning (It is clear P): Information presented as intersubjec-
tively shared, or as more objetively valid is more warrantable.
(ii) whether the speaker/writer as conceptualizer (C) is overtly designated (I
assume P, We remember P), and thus explicitly assumes personal responsibility
for the information; or whether the speaker/writer as conceptualizer is implicitly
invoked (maybe P), or is invoked as a virtual or generalized (V/G) conceptualizer
(It seems P, It is obvious P), thus mystifying personal responsibility for the infor-
mation in the latter two cases.
The category of epistemic stance3, as the notion of a superordinate discourse
category of epistemicity, is here taken to include a wide range of expressions
which are attested in discourse as markers of epistemic legitimising strategies.
Table 1 aims to capture the subdomains of epistemic modality, personal eviden-
tials and other evidential strategies, degrees of speaker/writer certainty concern-
ing the event and degrees of reliability typically assigned to evidential sources.
The table also captures the subjective/intersubjective values of modals and
evidentials. As mentioned above, stance resources are indexical of the speaker’s
subjective and intersubjective positioning (Langacker 1991, 2002; Marín-Arrese
3 Abbreviations used in Table 1:
C = Conceptualizer; p = proﬁled process; P = proposition
424 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
2006, 2007a, 2011b). Traugott and Dasher (2002: 11) note that an epistemic modal
like may “contributes to the contentful structure of the utterance (possibility
on a scale between high probability (must) and low probability (might), but it
also indexes subjective attitude (I think it is possible . . .)”. De Haan (2005: 1)
has argued that evidentiality is a deictic category and not a modal one, since it
fulﬁls “the same function for marking relationships between speakers and
action/events”. Evidential strategies may be considered deictic in that they
index the evidence to the conceptualiser, who is responsible for the evidential
stance act (cf. Mushin 2001: 33). The semantic proximity to epistemic modals,
however, still holds since modals are grounding predications that situate “the pro-
ﬁled relationship with respect to the speaker’s conception of reality” (Langacker
2008: 259).
Table 1: Epistemic Stance
EPISTEMIC STANCE (Adapted from Marín-Arrese 2011b)
EPISTEMIC MODALITY EVIDENTIAL STRATEGIES
SUBJECTIVE INTERSUBJECTIVE SUBJECTIVE INTERSUBJECTIVE
High Certainty
Implicit C
must p
Certainly P
Explicit C
I am sure P
High Certainty
Implicit V/G C
It is certain P
Explicit C
We are certain P
External/Internal, Direct
High Reliability
Explicit C
I can see P
I know P
I say to you P
External/Internal,
Direct/Indirect
High Reliability
Explicit C
We have witnessed P
We all know P
Implicit V/G C
It is a fact that P
It was clear/obvious P
Clearly/obviously P
Medium Certainty
Implicit C
will p
probably P
Medium Certainty
Implicit V/G C
It is probable P
External/Internal, Indirect
Medium Reliability
Explicit C
I think P
I infer P
My experience is P
External/Internal, Indirect
Medium Reliability
Explicit C
We think P
We conclude P
We could see P
Implicit V/G C
It seems P
Low Certainty
Implicit C
may p
perhaps P
Explicit C
I am not sure P
Low Certainty
Implicit V/G C
It is possible P
Explicit C
We are not sure P
Internal, Indirect
Low Reliability
Explicit C
I suppose P
I feel P
External/Internal, Indirect
Low Reliability
Explicit C
We suppose P
Implicit V/G C
You get the feeling P
apparently/supposedly/
allegedly P
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 425
3 Stance and inter/subjectivity in discourse
3.1. Subjectivity and intersubjectivity
The formulation of subjectivity as the capacity of the speaking self to view him/
herself as subject of enunciation (sujet d’énonciation) is found in the seminal
work by Benveniste (1966 [1958]). He drew attention to the fact that the relation-
ship of intersubjectivity between the speaker/writer and hearer/reader is a basic
condition for linguistic communication. As Finegan (1995: 1–2) deﬁnes the notion,
subjectivity involves “the expression of self and the representation of a speaker’s
(or, more generally, a locutionary agent’s) perspective or point of view in
discourse – what has been called a speaker’s imprint”. The subjectivity of dis-
course is a crucial factor or facet of language, since it concerns “language as
an expression – an incarnation, even – of perceiving, feeling, speaking subjects”.
An objective use of language has been typically associated with linguistic
expressions where the speaker/writer’s viewpoint is not explicitly invoked (i.e.
nominalization, passive, etc.). The use of more subjective language is associated
with various ways in which the speaker/writer is present in the discourse, either
explicitly through the use of personal predicates (I suppose. . .), or implicitly in
the use of epistemic modals. Lyons (1977) and Traugott (1995) are concerned
with the expression of self, with how the semantics of an expression relates to
the speaker (subjectivity) or whether it is non-speaker-related (objectivity). For
Traugott and Dasher (2002), the most objective expressions are those which
lack any form of spatial, temporal or social deixis, as well as any marker of
speaker/writer’s (SP/W’s) attitude or attention to addressee/reader (AD/R); the
most subjective expressions are those which explicitly mark the speaker/writer
(I think . . .). The gradient between subjectivity and objectivity is thus based on
the notion of speaker-relatedness (De Smet and Verstraete 2006). Traugott and
Dasher (2002: 22) also draw a distinction between subjectivity, which relates
to expressions in which the speaker/writer’s point of view is explicitly encoded
(e.g. attitudinal markers, including epistemic attitude, discourse deixis, etc.),
and intersubjectivity, which pertains to the relation between speaker/writer and
addressee/reader concerning “the explicit, coded expression of SP/W’s attention
to the image or ‘self’ of AD/R in a social or an epistemic sense” (e.g. hedges,
honoriﬁcation, politeness markers).
Langacker’s (1991, 2000, 2002) conception of subjectivity vs. objectivity always
involves a connection to the speaker/writer as subject of conception. Subjectivity
is explained drawing on perceptual notions, such as the maximal asymmetry
between the viewer or subject of perception and the scene viewed or object of
perception, which is the default situation in an optimal viewing arrangement.
426 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
The “viewer” remains “oﬀstage”, thus being implicit and construed with maximal
subjectivity, whereas the object of perception is “onstage”, salient and objectively
construed. In departures from the default situation, as in an egocentric viewing
arrangement, the viewer goes “onstage”, thus becoming more salient and objec-
tiﬁed. The conceptual analogues of these perceptual notions involve the subjects
of conception or primary conceptualizers, by default the speaker and hearer, and
the object of conception, that is the entity which an expression puts “onstage”
and proﬁles. Langacker (2002: 17) describes subjectivity and objectivity in the
following terms:
An entity is construed objectively to the extent that it is distinct from the conceptualizer
and is put onstage as a salient object of conception. Being the focal point within the
onstage region, an expression’s proﬁle has a high degree of objectivity. An entity receives
a subjective construal to the extent that it functions as the subject of conception but not
as the object. The highest degree of subjectivity thus attaches to the speaker and hearer,
speciﬁcally in regard to those expressions that do not in any way include them within their
scope.
The ground elements, the speaker and hearer, are by default implicit in their
tacit role as subjects of conception, and are thus construed with maximal sub-
jectivity. However, they may function as objects of conception, to varying degrees.
Langacker (1991: 93) identiﬁes a continuum in terms of degrees of salience that
the ground elements, the speech-act participants, have in a particular predica-
tion. Thus, in the case of pronouns like I or you, which proﬁle the speech-act
participants, the speaker or hearer is “rendered maximally salient and minimally
subjective”. In epistemic modals, in deictics, and in the deictic construal of some
prepositional phrases, the speaker or hearer remain implicit, and thus non-salient
and maximally subjective.
The dimension of subjectivity thus involves the parameter salience or overtness
of the role of the conceptualizer. This is a gradient parameter, since we may identify
a continuum ranging from cases where the conceptualizer is part of the object of
conceptualization and is thus encoded in the expression of stance as the explicit
source of the evaluation or assessment, to those cases where the conceptualizer
is implicit and non-salient, and those where the role of the current speaker as
source of the evaluation is opaque. When explicitly mentioned, in expressions
of stance (I saw, I think, . . .), the speaker/writer is objectiﬁed since, in addition
to the role of conceptualizer, s/he is also part of the object of conception. In
the case of modals, the conceptualizer is implicit, so that his/her role is less
prominent and more subjectiﬁed. Nonetheless, as Sanders (1999: 473) argues,
to the extent that the conceptualizer functions as an implicit point of reference,
the speaker’s “active consciousness” is also evoked. With impersonal evidential
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 427
expressions (it seems), where the presence of the subject of conception is opaque;
there is only covert reference to the ground and the role of the conceptualizer is
almost maximally subjective. Langacker (2000: 350) notes that with an expression
such as it seems, the conceptualizer may be “only potential” or “is construed
generically or in a generalized fashion”.
An additional dimension of subjectivity vs. intersubjectivity concerns the
degree to which the speaker/writer assumes personal responsibility for the eval-
uation of the evidence (subjectivity) or whether the assessment is potentially
shared by others (intersubjectivity) (Nuyts 2001). In a recent paper, Nuyts (2012:
58) deﬁnes the distinction between “subjectivity” and “intersubjectivity” in the
following terms: “A modal evaluation is ‘subjective’ if it is presented as being
strictly the assessor’s sole responsibility. A modal evaluation is ‘intersubjective’
if it is presented as being shared between the assessor and a wider group of
people, possibly (but not necessarily) including the hearer”.
Expressions designating the speaker/writer explicitly (I think, I am sure, . . .)
indicate that s/he is solely responsible for the epistemic assessment, since s/he
has access to the evidence or is the sole source of knowledge, whereas those ex-
pressions that refer to a collectivity (We all know, We have all seen, . . .) explicitly
indicate that the evidence is known to, or accessible to a group of people, and
thus invoke shared responsibility. Epistemic modals, which implicitly invoke
the subject of conception, also index speaker/writer’s personal responsibility
for the assessment. Impersonal evidential expressions, which do not designate
the speaker/writer explicitly (It seems, That suggests, . . .), may be interpreted as
involving shared responsibility. These expressions are opaque in that they evoke
a virtual or generalized conceptualizer, which by default is interpreted as the
speaker/writer, but they also leave open the possibility of potentially sharing
the evaluation with other voices in the discourse.
3.2 Subjectivity/intersubjectivity and responsibility
This framework posits a set of categories of subjectivity/intersubjectivity –
Subjective-Explicit (SE), Subjective-Implicit (SI), Intersubjective-Explicit (IE),
Intersubjective-Virtual-Explicit (IVE), Intersubjective-Virtual-Implicit (IVI) – on
the basis of the syncretism between diﬀerent values of the following two param-
eters of subjectivity/intersubjectivity: (i) Degree of salience or overtness of the
role of conceptualizer, which refers to the degree of explicitness, implicitness or
opaqueness of the presence of the conceptualizer, and (ii) Responsibility: per-
sonal vs. shared responsibility for the communicated information.
428 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
(i) Salience: With respect to the parameter salience or overtness of the role of
the conceptualizer, a continuum may be identiﬁed involving the degree of
salience of the speaker/writer as subject of conception, and the degree to which
there is foregrounding of speaker/writer’s consciousness.
Figure 2: Degree of salience of the conceptualizer
(a) Explicit reference to conceptualizer: The speaker/writer is designated in the
expression of stance as the source of knowledge or as having personal access
to the evidence. When explicitly mentioned (I saw, I think,. . .), the speaker/writer
is objectiﬁed, since in addition to the role of conceptualizer, s/he is also part of
the object of conception; in eﬀect the speaker/writer has a dual role as both sub-
ject and object of conception. The high degree of salience of the conceptualizer
in these expressions has an eﬀect on the construal of the conceptualization,
such that the information communicated is maximally subjective, while the
speaker/writer as conceptualizer is objectiﬁed to the extent that s/he becomes
part of the object of conceptualization.
(13) I can’t recall <EP, CDI, SE> exactly when we were given the responsibility
for Basra, but I know <EP, CDI, SE> that for us it then involved economic,
social and political measures, including big measures in economic
development. (IWI, GB)
(b) Conceptualizer invoked implicitly: Epistemic modal expressions only invoke
the speaker/conceptualizer as the implicit point of reference. The speaker/writer
is implicit and non-salient and the role of conceptualizer is less prominent and
more subjective, but, as Sanders (1999: 473) observes, expressions with modal
auxiliaries create subjectivity by foregrounding the speaker’s attitudes or estima-
tions of certainty, so that “what is expressed by the sentence is subjectiﬁed”.
Epistemic expressions are essentially subjective since they evoke the speaker/
writer’s active consciousness.
(14) That may <EP, EM, SI> have happened, but, you know, I wasn’t the Foreign
Secretary or the Prime Minister. The contacts that would be had with the
French would be through them. (IWI, GB)
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 429
(c) Virtual or generalized conceptualizer: Expressions with impersonal predicates
(it seems, it is clear, . . .) invoke an implicit conceptualizer, which may be con-
strued as a generalized or virtual entity. As Langacker (2009: 286) notes, these
impersonal predicates “defocus the mental activity of any particular concep-
tualizer” by evoking the conceptualizer in generalized fashion. He further makes
the point that “evoking the conceptualizer in generalized fashion, abstracting
away from any particular individual, gives C the status of a virtual entity”. In
contrast with personal predicates and modal auxiliaries, in these expressions
the conceptualizer may be only potential, so that there is a lesser degree of
subjectivity attached to the conceptualization. With impersonal modal predi-
cates (it is possible, it is likely, . . .) the conceptualizer is further backgrounded,
and a more objective stance towards the communicated information is evoked.
(15) We were obviously worried that, after him, his two sons seemed <EP, EIE,
IVI> to be as bad, if not worse. (IWI-TB)
(16) I think, after September 11, it was clear <EP, EIE, IVI> that this whole
thing was in a diﬀerent framework. (IWI-TB)
(17) Having said that, my whole construct was to get as broad a coalition as
possible, and I thought that if we managed to get the peace process really
pushing forward, we were more likely <EP, EM, IVI> to get a broader and
deeper coalition. (IWI-GB)
(ii) Responsibility: With regard to the parameter of responsibility, we also ﬁnd a
parallel set of distinctions, which involve the degree to which the speaker/writer
claims personal responsibility for the communicated proposition, or presents the
information as shared or co-constructed.
Figure 3: Degree of Speaker/Writer Responsibility
(a) Personal responsibility: Expressions designating the speaker/writer explicitly
(I think, I am sure, . . .) indicate that s/he personally subscribes to the assertion,
that the communicated information is part of their conception of reality. As
Sanders and Spooren (1996: 246) note, evidential expressions designating the
speaker/writer “explicitly encode the speaker/writer’s personal limitation of the
430 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
validity of information”. Epistemic modals, which implicitly invoke the subject
of conception, also involve personal responsibility, however covert this may be.
(18) – I was given information by the intelligence services which led me to
believe <EP, CII, SE> that Iraq was a threat that had to be dealt with by the
actions of the international community. (IWI-GB)
(19) I think there had been some press coverage about the Foreign Oﬃce. I
may <EP, EM, SI> be wrong on that, but I think there may <EP, EM, SI>
have been some press coverage. (IWI-GB)
(b) Shared responsibility: Expressions with inclusive we, (We all know, We saw, . . .)
explicitly designate a collectivity which typically includes the speaker/writer and
others, though very often it refers to an “incompletely deﬁned collectivity” (Kita-
gawa and Lehrer 1990: 745). In some cases, the speaker/writer strategically uses
the pronoun as an exclusive we. These expressions index shared responsibility.
(20) We know <EP, CDI, IE> Saddam had eﬀectively corroded the support for
the previous sanctions. (IWI-TB)
(c) Opaque responsibility: Evidential expressions not designating the speaker/
writer explicitly may be interpreted as indexing either personal or shared respon-
sibility. These expressions present the communicated information as part of the
epistemic dominion of some virtual or generalized conceptualizer, and poten-
tially accessible to the interlocutor or audience, so that the responsibility for
the evidence is tacitly shared with others. A variety of linguistic resources are
found in this case: impersonal modal predicates (It is possible, It is likely, . . .),
impersonal evidential predicates (It seems, It sounds like, It is clear, It is
palpable, . . .), impersonal factive predicates (It is true that. . .). In other cases, we
ﬁnd mystiﬁcation of agency or of experiencer, as in agentless passives (It was
felt that), and nominalizations (The conclusion was), where responsibility for
the epistemic stance act is diﬀuse.
(21) Yes, it was obviously a possibility <EP, EM, IVI> that military action
would be the outcome of what was going to happen, and so there was a
general discussion of the possibility of going down the military route, but,
obviously, we were arguing very much for that to be if the UN route failed.
(IWI-TB)
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 431
(22) But it was also obvious <EP, EEX, IVI>, I am afraid, that some countries
were making it clear that they would not support action under any
circumstances. (IWI-GB)
(23) Now, it is true <EP, TFV, IVI> that we were dealing with the Iraqi army that
had existed under Saddam Hussein and politicians and bureaucrats who
worked under Saddam Hussein, but it is also true <EP, TFV, IVI>, I think –
and we learned this lesson from other past conﬂicts – that unless you can
quickly involve the people of the country in a sense that they have or are
about to get more control over the country, then you become very quickly
an army of occupation rather than an army of liberation, and we never
wanted to be an army of occupation. (IWI-GB)
(24) As I say, I think the conclusion was <EP, CII, IVI>, in the end, you
certainly couldn’t rely on it. (IWI-TB)
This category also includes impersonal or “vague” uses of pronouns (Kitagawa
and Lehrer 1990), where the speaker/writer’s voice and responsibility is diﬀuse
(You would think).
(25) As I say, anybody who knows Peter knows <EP, CDI, IVE> he would not
have done it unless he believed in it and thought it was the correct thing
to do, and that was – for us and for our armed forces, that was suﬃcient.
(IWI-TB)
(26) . . . you couldn’t be sure <EP, EM, IVE> that the United Nations route was
going to work – in fact, the likelihood is that it wouldn’t – (IWI-TB)
4 The case study
4.1 The texts
The Iraq War Inquiry (IWI), also referred to as the Chilcot Inquiry after its
chairman, Sir John Chilcot, was announced on 15 June 2009 by Gordon Brown,
and the open sessions commenced on 24 November 2009, at QE2 Conference
432 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
Centre. The IWI is a public inquiry, by a committee of Privy Counsellors4, which
investigated the role of the United Kingdom in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and the
UK’s involvement in Iraq from mid-2001 to July 2009.
Tony Blair strongly supported George W. Bush’s policy of War on Terror, with
the UK’s participation in the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan and the 2003 invasion
of Iraq. In the UK, there was widespread public opposition to the invasion of
Iraq, and a substantial number of Labour MPs openly opposed it. Blair also
faced serious criticism over the circumstances in which the policy was decided
upon, and very speciﬁcally, in relation to the issue of the weapons of mass
destruction, which according to intelligence reports Saddam Hussein was devel-
oping. The purpose of the inquiry was to establish the way decisions had been
made, to determine what had happened and to ascertain whether the UK
government had responded in the most eﬀective manner in the best interests of
the country.
This paper examines the transcripts of the oral evidence given by:
– The Rt. Hon Tony Blair, Prime Minister, 2001–June 2007. Oral evidence:
Friday, 29 January 2010. 32, 616 words (320 answers).
– The Rt. Hon Gordon Brown, MP, Chancellor of the Exchequer, 1997–2007,
Prime Minister, June 2007–May 2010. Oral evidence: Friday, 5 March 2010.
26,245 words (231 answers).
The contextual features, or variables, of the discourses are the following:
Discourse Domain: Public Inquiry
Topic: UK’s involvement in the Iraq war
Genre: Oral evidence
Discourse Modes or ‘types of text’: Expository and Argumentative
Medium: Spoken interaction.
Participants: Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, Committee members.
Subject/Role in the Inquiry: Tony Blair and Gordon Brown as witnesses
4 The committee of inquiry included the following members:
Sir John Chilcot (chairman), a career diplomat and senior civil servant.
Sir Lawrence Freedman, a military historian, and Professor of War Studies at King’s College
London.
Sir Martin Gilbert, a historian.
Sir Roderic Lyne, former Ambassador to Russia and to the United Nations in Geneva, and private
secretary to Prime Minister John Major.
The Baroness Prashar, member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, and chairwoman of
the Judicial Appointments Commission.
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 433
Social Roles: Blair, ex-Prime Minister; Brown, Prime Minister.
Dialogic dimensions: Non-collaborative interaction (vs. default interactional collab-
oration); Personal responsibility for testimony (vs. default shared responsibility
between conversational co-participants).
Goal: Epistemic control and management of interests.
4.2 Hypothesis and procedure
The general hypothesis is that variation in the contextual features of discourses,
i.e., speakers/writers engaging in a particular social role, and their correspond-
ing personal and political goals in the particular discourse domain, genre and
activity type, will reveal characteristic diﬀerences in the use of epistemic stance
resources, and in the indexing of inter/subjectivity, and thus in speakers/writers’
interactional styles. Variation will also reveal characteristic diﬀerences of dis-
course practices across languages and cultures. Though the study of intercul-
tural features is beyond the scope of the present paper, it is relevant to note
that signiﬁcant diﬀerences between English and Spanish have been found in
case studies on public or parliamentary inquiries (Marín-Arrese 2012), in previous
studies of journalistic discourse (Marín-Arrese 2007b), and in political discourse
(Marín-Arrese 2007a).
The paper examines the presence and distribution of epistemic stance ex-
pressions and the indexing of inter/subjectivity in the oral evidence given by
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in the Iraq War Inquiry. The texts were examined
in the ﬁrst instance to identify the tokens of the diﬀerent categories of episte-
mic stance and subjectivity/intersubjectivity. Various electronic searches using
Monoconc were carried out to ensure that all the instances present in the texts
had been identiﬁed. The tokens found were then analysed and tagged manually
according to the parameters of epistemic stance and the dimensions of subjec-
tivity/intersubjectivity identiﬁed above. Further electronic searches involving
the labels used for the diﬀerent categories were carried out for the quantitative
results, which are presented together with the qualitative analysis in the follow-
ing section.
4.3 The categories
Within the domain of epistemic stance (EP), the paper focuses on the use of
verbal expressions: (a) epistemic modal verbs; (b) personal evidential and pseudo
evidential expressions; and (c) factive predicates. The categories of epistemic
stance, the tagging conventions adopted in this paper, and some token expres-
sions are the following:
434 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
– Epistemic modality (EM): Epistemic modals and predicates expressing cer-
tainty or likelihood (may, might, could, will, must, going to, It was likely, I’m
not sure, I was very sure that, You couldn’t be sure, . . .).
– Factivity (FTV): Impersonal factive predicates (The fact is that, It is (abso-
lutely) true that, It is correct that, . . .)
– Experiential, Direct, External (EDE): Personal predicates of the experiential
domain (When I look at, I found, We discovered, . . .).
– Experiential, Indirect, External/Internal (EIE): Personal and impersonal pre-
dicates expressing evidence after the fact (circumstantial inferences) (I could
see, You can see, It seems, It appeared to be, It was clear/obvious, . . .)
– Cognitive, Direct, Internal (CDI): Personal cognitive factive predicates (I know,
We knew, I don’t know, I am aware, I remember, As I recall, . . .).
– Cognitive, Indirect, Internal (CII): Personal predicates involving beliefs,
reasoning-motivated knowledge or general assumptions (generic inferences
and conjectures) (I think, I don’t think, I guess, I believe, I don’t believe, I felt,
I would say, I seem to, . . .)
– Communicative, Direct, Internal (CMI): Performative utterances involving
personal predicates of communication (I just simply say to you, As I say, I
have to say, It is fair to say, All I’m saying is, I would say to you, All I’m trying
to say, I just want to make this clear, Let me tell you, I can assure you, Let
me emphasise to you, I emphasise, The point that I’m making is this, All I’m
pointing out, . . .)
– Communicative, Direct/Indirect, External (CME): Personal and impersonal
predicates involving access to knowledge on the basis of inferences originat-
ing from some external source of communication (I read, I got a sense, It
seems, We can see, You see this clearly from, It indicates, It is clear from, It
looks like from, It emerges, . . .).
– Personal/Mediated, Communicative, Direct, Internal (MCMI): Information ex-
plicitly attributed to self, previous intra- and intertextual references (self-
quotative or self-reportive) (I said, I have said before, I made it clear that, . . .)
With regard to the indexing of subjectivity and intersubjectivity, the following
categories are identiﬁed on the basis of the parameters of salience of the concep-
tualizer and responsibility:
– Subjective, Explicit (SE): Personal predicates (I saw, I think, . . .), and other
expressions which include explicit mention of the speaker/writer as concep-
tualizer (It seems to me, I am sure, I am aware,. . .). The speaker is designated
explicitly as the sole subject of the epistemic judgement, thus highlighting
his/her personal responsibility for the epistemic stance.
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 435
– Intersubjective, Explicit (IE): Personal predicates (We know, It seemed to us, . . .),
and modal or evidential adjectival predicates (We are sure, We are clear, . . .).
The speaker overtly presents the communicated information as intersubjec-
tively shared with other speciﬁc or unspeciﬁed subjects, or as universally
shared.
– Subjective, Implicit (SI): Modal auxiliaries (must, will, may, . . .). The speaker
is the sole conceptualizer, the implicit subject of the epistemic judgement.
These expressions index personal responsibility.
– Intersubjective, Virtual/Generalized, Explicit (IVE): Expressions which invoke a
generalized conceptualizer (You would think, You ﬁnd, Everybody knew, . . .),
which by default is interpreted as the speaker, or which may refer to a non-
speciﬁc collectivity that also includes the speaker. The speaker thus presents
the information as potentially shared with the addressee/reader and/or
others.
– Intersubjective, Virtual/Generalized, Implicit (IVI): Modal, evidential and
factive impersonal predicates which evoke an implicit conceptualizer which
may be construed as virtual (It is likely that, It seems that, It is true that, . . .),
as well as expressions which invoke an implicit conceptualizer, which may
be indeterminate or unknown, or is presented as unknown, as in passives
(It was thought that, . . .), or nominalizations. These expressions index shared
responsibility in varying degrees, though in the default situation, it is
assumed that the speaker/writer subscribes to the validity of the proposition
(Langacker 2009).
5 Results and discussion
5.1 Epistemic stance: Results
Table 2 shows the results for the diﬀerent categories of epistemic stance in the
discourse of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in the IWI. Results are given in raw
numbers (N), and frequency per thousand words (R) in order to normalise the
data, since the number of words in each text diﬀers considerably.
The results for epistemic stance are similar for both speakers, in terms of
the frequency and distribution of tokens per category. Both Blair and Brown
rely basically on the use of stance resources characterised by the parameters
Cognitive, Indirect, Internal, that is, mostly personal predicates involving beliefs,
reasoning-motivated knowledge or general assumptions (generic inferences and
conjectures), including self-attribution of past beliefs.
436 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
Table 2: Epistemic stance categories and results
EPISTEMIC STANCE IWI-BLAIR
32,026 words
IWI-BROWN
26,245 words
N R N R
EM 118 3.68 117 4.46
FTV 30 0.94 26 0.99
EDE 11 0.34 16 0.61
EIE 35 1.09 15 0.57
CDI 71 2.22 87 3.31
CII 460 14.36 270 10.28
CMI 133 4.15 64 2.44
CME 7 0.21 4 0.15
MCMI 66 2.06 44 1.68
Total 931 29.07 643 24.49
There are, however, some subtle diﬀerences which are worth mentioning:
(i) The total ratio of epistemic stance markers is considerably higher in the case
of Blair. In rhetorical terms, the high frequency of use of these markers
reﬂects the speaker’s concern with the acceptance of the validity of the
information on the part of the hearer. However, it is important to note that
the higher the ratio of epistemic modal markers in the discourse the lower
the commitment to the truth of the proposition on the part of the speaker.
As Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994: 179) observe concerning epistemicity
and truth, “markers of epistemic modality indicate something about less
than a total commitment by the speaker to the truth of the proposition”.
Similarly, Langacker (2008: 302) argues that “the absence of a modal indi-
cates that C accepts the proﬁled process as being real”, as part of the con-
ceptualizer’s conceived reality (Rc), whereas the presence of a modal places
the proﬁled process “outside conceived reality, in a region we can refer to as
irreality (the complement of Rc)”. In this category of epistemic modals,
Brown shows the higher ratio.
(ii) Blair’s second preferred category of epistemic stance resources is that of
Communicative, Direct, Internal, that is, those where he relies on performa-
tive acts of communication (As I say), as the preferred mode of legitimising
his assertions. In the third place, he makes recourse to the use of epistemic
modals and other epistemic predicates expressing certainty or likelihood.
Relatively signiﬁcant ﬁgures are also found in the category Cognitive, Direct,
Internal, mostly involving cognitive factive predicates and self-attribution of
knowledge in the past. In this respect, it is interesting to note that within
this category there is a considerable number (N = 26) of tokens of “ignora-
tive” markers (cf. Donaldson 1980) such as I don’t know, even though the
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 437
ﬁgure does not include tokens in interrogative, counterfactual or virtual
contexts (for the notion of “aphonic” stance, see Brandt 2004), or cases of
implicit contrast (What we know now, As we now know, . . .).
(iii) Brown also shows a clear preference for the category Cognitive, Indirect,
Internal. His second preferred category, however, is that of epistemic modals
and predicates. Signiﬁcant ﬁgures are also found in the category Cognitive,
Direct, Internal, involving present knowledge and self-attribution of knowl-
edge in the past. The ratio of tokens in this category is considerably higher
to that of Blair’s, with the added feature that the number of tokens of igno-
rative stance (I don’t know) is signiﬁcantly lower (N = 7). The ﬁgures for the
category Communicative, Direct, Internal (I have to say) are substantially
lower than those of Blair’s.
Figure 4 illustrates the results for the categories of epistemic stance in the
discourse of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in the IWI (ratio per thousand words,
totals excluded).
Figure 4: Categories of Epistemic Stance
As we have seen, Blair’s discoursal identity is characterized by the following
epistemic legitimising strategies: I think > As I say > may/might. In the case of
Brown, we ﬁnd the following scale of preferred strategies: I think > will/would >
I know.
5.2 Subjectivity and intersubjectivity: Results
Table 3 presents the results for subjectivity/intersubjectivity in the IWI. Results
are given in raw numbers (N), and frequency per thousand words (R).
438 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
We ﬁnd very few diﬀerences in the pattern of distribution of subjective and
intersubjective values between the two speakers. The highest frequencies for
both Blair and Brown are found in the category Subjective, Explicit Conceptualizer
(SE), (I think), by means of which the speakers explicitly assume personal
responsibility for the stance act.
Table 3: Inter/Subjectivity categories and results
SUBJECTIVITY/
INTERSUBJECTIVITY
IWI-BLAIR
32,026 words
IWI-BROWN
26,245 words
N R N R
SE 644 20.11 374 14.25
SI 123 3.84 110 4.19
IE 67 2.09 102 3.88
IVE 15 0.47 12 0.46
IVI 82 2.56 45 1.71
Total 931 29.07 643 24.49
There is, however, a marked diﬀerence in the ﬁgures, in that Blair’s use of
markers with an explicit subjective value is signiﬁcantly higher than that of
Brown’s. For both speakers, the second most frequent category is that of Subjec-
tive, Implicit Conceptualizer (SI) (may/might/will/would). There are also some
minor diﬀerences between the speakers in two categories of intersubjective
values. Brown uses a considerable amount of markers in the category Intersub-
jective, Explicit Conceptualizer (IE), (We know), which involve explicitly shared
responsibility for the information with other speciﬁc or unspeciﬁed subjects.
Blair also makes frequent use of these markers, but seems to prefer the category
Intersubjective, Implicit virtual or generalized conceptualizer (IVI), (It was clear/
obvious, The fact is), where responsibility for the stance act is presented as
potentially shared with some virtual or generalized conceptualizer.
Figure 5 illustrates the results for subjectivity and intersubjectivity in the
discourse of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in the IWI (ratio per thousand words,
totals excluded).
The pattern of distribution of preferred inter/subjective strategies is the
following for Blair: I think/As I say > may/might > it is true/it is obvious. For
Brown, we ﬁnd the following scale: I think/I know > will/would > We knew/We
have learned.
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 439
5.3 Legitimising strategies: Discussion
This section aims to suggest possible explanations for the variation in the use of
strategies of legitimisation and in managing responsibility in the case of both
speakers. Tony Blair was Prime Minister, and personally responsible for Britain’s
intervention in the Iraq war. At the time of the Iraq War Inquiry, however, he is
no longer PM, though his obvious rhetorical goal is the justiﬁcation of the inter-
vention, through the use of a set of epistemic legitimising strategies, which
involve appeal to knowledge about the events. This is particularly reﬂected in
his explicit reference to his beliefs and conjectures (I think), and in his assess-
ment concerning the reality or likelihood of the events (may/might). Also inter-
esting to note is the relatively high amount of ignorative stance markers, when
he tries to avoid admitting that he had knowledge or information about certain
facts or decisions.
Another signiﬁcant feature in the results may be explained in terms of the
activity type or genre. In an inquiry, the witness is being questioned about
personal decisions and motivations for actions, and of utmost importance are
his personal justiﬁcation for those decisions and actions. This perhaps motivates
Blair’s substantial number of performative acts of communication (As I say, All I
would say to you), where the speaker is trying to persuade the Committee of
Inquiry of the validity and truth of his assertions.
Similar explanations may be provided for Brown. During the Iraq War,
Brown was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and had limited responsibility in the
decision-taking process, as he repeatedly mentions in his intervention. But
when the Iraq War Inquiry was announced, Gordon Brown was Prime Minister
Figure 5: Categories of Subjectivity and Intersubjectivity
440 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
and had an obvious stake in the proceedings. He employs the same type of
strategies as Blair, but the lower use of epistemic stance markers points to a
higher commitment to truth in his statement, and there are very few cases of
ignorative stance. Also noteworthy is the fact that the number of performative
acts of communication is signiﬁcantly lower, presumably since he does not feel
so much need to back up his asertions.
In the realm of subjectivity/intersubjectivity, the use of expressions with a
subjective value, which explicitly designate the speaker (I), are predominant
in both speakers. This feature, as mentioned above, may be attributed to the
intrinsically dialogic nature of the activity type, where the witnesses are basi-
cally involved in answering questions addressed to them concerning their
knowledge or responsibility for the decisions and actions leading to the Iraq
War. Both speakers also display a common feature in that their second preferred
strategy (may/might/will/would) involves mystiﬁcation of responsibility for the
information proﬀered, since the speaker/conceptualizer is only implicitly invoked.
A signiﬁcant diﬀerence between the two speakers lies in the third preferred
strategy, where Blair further mystiﬁes responsibility by recourse to stance resources
which evoke a generalized or virtual conceptualizer (It is a fact), whereas Brown
opts for a strategy of shared responsibility (We).
6 Conclusion
In this paper I have discussed the domain of epistemic stance, and presented
a proposal for the classiﬁcation of evidentials and evidential strategies on the
basis of a set of parameters inherent to evidentiality. It has been argued that
any stancetaking act simultaneously involves an evaluative act and dialogical
positioning of the subject of conception, by default the speaker/writer, which
is strategic in nature, as well as the indexing of the conceptualizer’s inter/
subjectivity in the discourse, which indicates the extent to which s/he assumes
responsibility for his/her stancetaking acts.
Subjectivity has been discussed in terms of the degree of salience attached
to the role of conceptualizer, which involves a continuum from cases where
there is explicit reference to the conceptualizer, through cases where the con-
ceptualizer is invoked but remains implicit, and ﬁnally to cases where the role
of the conceptualizer is opaque since what is invoked is some generalized or
virtual conceptualizer. The dimension of intersubjectivity has been examined in
terms of the notions of personal vs. shared responsibility for the information.
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 441
The framework described here aims to integrate the cognitive and the dis-
course perspective in the study of how these linguistic resources of stance and
subjectivity/intersubjectivity vary in the discourse with respect to diﬀerent contexts
of interaction and discourse domains (judicial discourse), and across genres and
text types. Variation in the use of stance resources, and in indexing subjectivity/
intersubjectivity, is also found in relation to speaker/writer’s interactional styles,
and their management of interests and rhetorical goals in the diﬀerent com-
municative situations. In this respect, the paper has presented a case study on
the oral evidence given by Tony Blair and Gordon Brown in the Iraq War Inquiry.
Further research is necessary with respect to other dimensions of stance,
such as the degree of speaker/writer commitment to the validity of the informa-
tion, and the use of strategies of dialogicality in discourse. Finally, the con-
trastive perspective needs to be pursued more extensively in order to explore
the possible cultural variations in interactional identities in diﬀerent discourse
domains and genres (Marín-Arrese 2007a, b).
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Anderson, Lloyd B. 1986. Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: Typologically regular
asymmetries. In: Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology, 273–312. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Benveniste, Émile. 1966[1958]. De la subjectivité dans le langage. Problems de Linguistique
Générale, 258–266. Paris: Gallimard. (Orig. publ. in Journal de psychologie 55: 267f., 1958).
Berman, Ruth A. 2004. Introduction: Developing discourse stance in diﬀerent text types and
languages. Journal of Pragmatics 37: 105–124.
Biber, Douglas and Edward Finegan. 1989. Styles of stance in English: Lexical and grammatical
marking of evidentiality and aﬀect. Text 1: 93–124.
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoﬀrey Leech, Susan Conrad and Edward Finegan. 1999.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. London: Longman.
Blakemore, Diane. 1987. Semantic Constraints on Relevance. Oxford: Blackwell.
Brandt, Per Aage. 2004. Evidentiality and Enunciation. A Cognitive and Semiotic Approach. In:
Juana I. Marín-Arrese (ed.), Perspectives on Evidentiality and Modality, 3–10. Madrid:
Editorial Complutense.
Bucholtz, Mary and Kira Hall. 2005. Identity and interaction: A sociocultural linguistic approach.
Discourse Studies 7(4/5): 585–614.
Boye, Kasper. 2006. Epistemic meaning: A cross-linguistic study. Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Copenhagen.
Boye, Kasper. 2010a. Semantic maps and the identiﬁcation of cross-linguistic generic categories:
Evidentiality and its relation to epistemic modality. Linguistic Discovery 8(1): 4–22.
Boye, Kasper. 2010b. Evidence for what? Evidentiality and scope. STUF 63(4): 290–307.
442 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
Boye, Kasper and Peter Harder. 2007. Complement-taking predicates: Usage and linguistic
structure. Studies in Language 31(3): 569–606.
Boye, Kasper and Peter Harder. 2009. Evidentiality. Linguistic categories and grammaticaliza-
tion. Functions of Language 16(1): 9–43.
Bybee, Joan, Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca. 1994. The Evolution of Grammar: Tense,
Aspect, and Modality in the Languages of the world. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Carretero, Marta. 2004. The role of evidentiality and epistemic modality in three English
spoken texts from legal proceeedings. In: Juana I. Marín-Arrese (ed.) Perspectives on
Evidentiality and Modality, 25–62. Madrid: Editorial Complutense.
Chafe, Wallace. 1986. Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In: Wallace
Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
261–272. New York: Ablex.
Chilton, Paul. 2004. Analysing Political Discourse. London: Routledge.
Dendale, Patrick and Liliane Tasmowski. 2001. Introduction: Evidentiality and related notions.
Journal of Pragmatics 33: 339–348.
De Smet, Hendrik and Jean-Christophe Verstraete. 2006. Coming to terms with subjectivity.
Cognitive Linguistics 17(3): 365–392.
Donaldson, Tamsin. 1980. Ngiyambaa: the Language of the Wangaaybuwan. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
DuBois, John W. 2007. The stance triangle. In: Robert Englebretson (ed.), Stancetaking in Discourse,
139–182. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Englebretson, Robert. 2007. Introduction. In: Robert Englebretson (ed.), Stancetaking in Dis-
course, 1–26. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Finegan, Edward. 1995. Subjectivity and subjectivisation: An introduction. In: Dieter Stein
and Susan Wright (eds.), Subjectivity and Subjectivisation: Linguistic Perspectives, 1–15.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Givon, Talmy. 1982. Evidentiality and epistemic space. Studies in Language 6(1): 23–49.
de Haan, Ferdinand. 1999. Evidentiality and epistemic modality: Setting boundaries. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics 18: 83–101.
de Haan, Ferdinand. 2001. The place of inference within the evidential system. IJAL 67(2): 193–
219.
De Haan, Ferdinand. 2005. Encoding speaker perspective: Evidentials. In: Zygmunt Frajzyngier
and David Rood (eds.), Linguistic Diversity and Language Theories, 377–396. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Hart, Christopher. 2011. Legitimising Assertions and the Logico-Rhetorical Module: Evidence
and Epistemic Vigilance in Media Discourse on Immigration. Discourse Studies 13(6):
751–769.
Hunston, Susan and Geoﬀ Thompson (eds.). 2000. Evaluation in Text: Authorial Stance and the
Construction of Discourse. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ifantidou, Elly. 2001. Evidentials and Relevance. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Johnstone, Barbara. 2007. Linking identity and dialect through stancetaking. In: Robert Engle-
bretson (ed.), Stancetaking in Discourse, 49–68. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kiparsky, Paul and Carol Kiparsky. 1970. Fact. In: Manfred Bierwisch and Karl E. Heidolph
(eds.), Progress in Linguistics, 143–73. The Hague: Mouton.
Kitawaga, Chisato and Adrienne Lehrer. 1990. Impersonal uses of personal pronouns. Journal
of Pragmatics 14: 739–759.
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 443
Langacker, Ronald W. 1991. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Volume 2. Stanford: Stanford
University Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1997. Consciousness, Construal, and Subjectivity. In: Maxim I. Stamenov
(ed.), Language Structure, Discourse and the Access to Consciousness, 49–75. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2000. Grammar and Conceptualization. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2002. Deixis and subjectivity. In: Frank Brisard (ed.), Grounding. The
Epistemic Footing of Deixis and Reference, 1–28. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2007. Control and the Mind/body Duality: Knowing vs. Eﬀecting. Plenary
lecture presented at the 10th International Cognitive Linguistics Conference, July 15–20,
2007, University of Krakow, Krakow. (Published in: Elzbieta Tabakowska, Michael Choinski
and Lukasz Wiraszka (eds.), Cognitive Linguistics in Action: From Theory to Application
and Back, 165–207. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter).
Langacker, Ronald W. 2008. Cognitive Grammar. A Basic Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 2009. Investigations in Cognitive Grammar. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lyons, John. 1977. Semantics, Volume 2. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2004. Evidential and epistemic qualiﬁcations in the discourse of fact
and opinion: A comparable corpus study. In: Juana I. Marín-Arrese, (ed.), Perspectives on
Evidentiality and Modality, 153–184. Madrid: Editorial Complutense.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2006. Commitment and subjectivity/intersubjectivity in discourse. In:
Marta Carretero, Laura Hidalgo, Julia Lavid, Elena Martínez Caro, JoAnne Neﬀ, Soledad
Pérez de Ayala and Esther Sánchez-Pardo (eds.), A Pleasure of Life in Words: A Festschrift
for Angela Downing, 647–671. Madrid: CERSA.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2007a. Stance and subjectivity/intersubjectivity in political discourse:
A contrastive case study. Belgian Journal of English Language and Literatures 5: 113–132.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2007b. Commitment and Subjectivity in the Discourse of Opinion columns
and Leading articles. RAEL. Volumen: 1. Special issue: Diﬀerent Approaches to Newspaper
Opinion Discourse.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2009. Eﬀective vs. epistemic stance and subjectivity/intersubjectivity
in political discourse: A case study. In: Anastasios Tsangalidis and Roberta Facchinetti
(eds.), Studies on English Modality. In Honour of Frank R. Palmer, 23–52. Berlin: Peter
Lang.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2011a. Eﬀective vs. Epistemic Stance and Subjectivity in Political Discourse:
Legitimising Strategies and Mystiﬁcation of Responsibility. In: Christopher Hart (ed.),
Critical Discourse Studies in Context and Cognition, 193–223. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Marín-Arrese, J. 2011b. Epistemic Legitimising Strategies, Commitment and Accountability in
Discourse. Discourse Studies 13(6): 789–797.
Marín-Arrese, Juana I. 2012. Epistemic Stance in the Discourse of Public and Parliamentary
Inquiries: A cross-linguistic study. Plenary lecture at the Modality, Corpus, Discourse Con-
ference, 7–8 June 2012, Lund University, Lund.
Martin, James R. and Peter R. White. 2005. The Language of Evaluation. Appraisal in English.
New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Matlock, Teenie. 1989. Metaphor and the grammaticalization of evidentials. Proceedings of the
Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society 15: 215–225.
Mushin, Ilana. 2001. Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
444 Juana I. Marín-Arrese
Nuyts, Jan. 2001. Epistemic Modality, Language, and Conceptualization: A Cognitive-Pragmatic
Perspective. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Nuyts, Jan. 2012. Notions of (inter)subjectivity. English Text Construction 5(1): 53–76.
Palmer, Frank. 2001. Mood and Modality. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Papafragou, Anna. 2000. Modality: Issues in the semantics-pragmatics interface. Oxford: Elsevier.
Plungian, Vladimir. 2001. The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal of Pragmatics 33: 349–357.
Sanders, José. 1999. Degree of subjectivity in epistemic modals and perspective representa-
tion. In: Leon G. De Stadler and Christoph Eyrich (eds.), Issues in Cognitive Linguistics,
471–489. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Sanders, José and Wilbert Spooren. 1996. Subjectivity and certainty in epistemic modality: A
study of Dutch epistemic modiﬁers. Cognitive Linguistics 7(3): 241–64.
Sperber, Dan, Fabrice Clément, Christophe Heintz, Olivier Mascaro, Hugo Mercier, Gloria Origgi
and Deidre Wilson. 2010. Epistemic vigilance. Mind and Language 25: 359–393.
Squartini, Mario. 2008. Lexical vs. grammatical evidentiality in French and Italian. Linguistics
46(5): 917–947.
Traugott, Elizabeth C. 1995. Subjectiﬁcation in grammaticalisation. In: Dieter Stein and Susan
Wright (eds.), Subjectivity and Subjectivisation: Linguistic Perspectives, 31–54. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Traugott, Elizabeth C. and Richard B. Dasher. 2002. Regularity in Semantic Change. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
van der Auwera, Johan and Vladimir Plungian. 1998. Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic
Typology 2(1): 79–124.
Weber, David J. 1986. Information perspective, proﬁle and patterns in Quechua. In: Wallace
Chafe and Johanna Nichols. (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
137–155. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
White, Peter R.R. 2003. Beyond modality and hedging: a dialogic view of the language of inter-
subjective stance. Text 23(2): 259–284.
White, Peter R.R. 2006. Evaluative semantics and ideological positioning in journalistic discourse:
A new framework for analysis. In: Inger Lassen, Jeanne Strunck and Torben Vestergaard
(eds.), Mediating Ideology in Text and Image, 37–67. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Wiemer, Björn. 2010. Hearsay in European languages: toward an integrative account of gram-
matical and lexical marking. In: Gabriele Diewald and Elena Smirnova (eds.), Linguistic
Realization of Evidentiality in European Languages, 59–129. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Willett, Thomas. 1988. A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12: 51–97.
Stancetaking and Inter/Subjectivity in the Iraq Inquiry: Blair vs. Brown 445
Subject index
ACT 253–254, 268–270, 272–273, 277
actually 253–263, 267–269, 271, 273–277
adverbial 281, 294, 301, 304, 308
American English 120–122, 125–127, 130–
132, 136–137, 149–150
Angloversal 237
annotation 317–319, 321–322, 324–328,
330–331, 333–335, 340–341, 343–344,
346–348, 350–353
apparently 321, 345, 348–349, 351
Appraisal (Theory) 379, 381–384, 386, 390
baseline 61, 64–65, 67–69, 74–76, 78, 81,
84, 86–87, 90–91
basically 253, 255, 257, 274–277
be going to 155, 158–164
behove 171–176, 178–180, 185, 187–189,
191, 194–197
better 119–123, 125–144, 146, 148–150
British English 119–122, 125–128, 130, 132–
133, 136–137, 149–150
can/could 58, 360–361
Catalan 172, 187, 196–197
central modal verbs 366–367
certainly 318, 320–321, 336–338, 340–344,
351
citizen journalism 359
clearly 319–321, 345, 348–350, 352
Cognitive Grammar 9, 202–204, 207, 209,
213, 218
colloquialism 155–157, 159–167
colloquialization 96, 108, 110–111, 113–114,
155, 159
commitment 224–225, 254, 264, 283, 308,
319, 384, 411, 422–424, 437
comparative modality 120–121, 123, 128,
149
complement 281–282, 285–296
complementation 30, 43–49, 51
cómpre 172–177, 179, 183–188, 190–192,
194–197
conceivably 321, 323, 330–331, 334, 351
conceptualizer, 6–7, 12, 14–15, 27–30, 33,
35, 42–52, 204, 411–412, 424, 427–
430, 435–437, 439, 441
contextual features 433–434
contraction 155, 159–160, 162, 167
contrastive 284, 290, 311
control 3–17, 19–26, 28–29, 32–37, 41–43,
46, 48–50, 52–53
copular 281–282, 285–287, 292–293, 295–
296, 299–302, 305, 308, 312
core modals 95–96, 99–102, 105–108, 110–
114
corpus/corpora 95–111, 113–114, 284, 289–
291, 293, 302, 304, 306, 309, 311, 313,
317, 319–320, 322
– Brown Family of corpora 95–100, 102,
106, 108–111, 114
– Diachronic Corpus of Present-Day Spoken
English (DCPSE) 57–58, 61–68, 71, 73,
76, 80, 87, 89–90, 92–93
– Santa Barbara corpus of spoken American
English 201, 205, 219
creole 236–237
cross-linguistic 281, 284, 289, 312
'd better 119–122, 125–134, 136–138, 140–
142, 145–147, 149–150
decidedly 337, 341–342, 344, 352
deﬁnitely 320–321, 341–343, 352
degree 318–320, 337, 344, 353
deictic centre 380, 388–389, 399–401,
406–408
deontic modal/modality 3, 14, 121, 124–125,
133–134, 165, 224, 226, 318, 323, 328,
330, 332, 351, 353, 385, 405, 408
dynamic modality 227, 229, 318, 323–324,
327–332, 334, 351, 353
emergent modals 95–96, 99–100, 106–114
Engagement 379–386, 390, 392, 398, 402,
407, 413
epistemic 41, 281–282, 284, 287–289, 295–
304, 307–308, 311–312
epistemic connotations 207, 211–214, 219
epistemic contingency 207, 218
epistemic modal/modality 16, 223–224,
272, 281–283, 285–286, 301–302, 304,
311–312, 317–321, 323–330, 332–344,
351–353, 415, 425, 435
epistemic stance 411–415, 418–422, 424–
425, 434, 436–438, 441
ESSENCE 253–255, 268–270, 272–277
evaluation 379, 383, 386, 391, 411
evidential 40, 282–289, 295–296, 298–304,
308–309, 311–312
evidential strategies 419, 424–425
evidentiality 283, 286, 317–321, 337, 339,
345–346, 348, 351–352, 385, 415–418
experiencer 171, 173, 175, 178–179, 184–191,
195–197
FACT 253–254, 268–270, 272–273, 277
factivity 412, 421–422, 435
force 3–5, 7, 15–17, 19–25, 27, 33, 36–38,
40, 43, 51–52
future-projecting modality 225–226, 232,
241
Galician 171–176, 183, 185, 187, 191, 194,
196–197
genre 57, 59–61, 64, 77–78, 80, 90, 92–93
grammaticalization 95–96, 108, 110, 113–
114, 125, 131–132, 140, 149–150, 174–
175, 178, 188, 191, 193–197
grammaticization 13, 45, 51
grounding 10, 18, 22, 27–30, 38–52, 203,
213
habitual (aspect) 231, 235–237, 240–241
had better 119–124, 126–138, 140–142,
146–150
have got to 155, 158–162, 164, 167
have to 95, 111–112, 155, 158–164
hedge 288, 291, 307–310
identity 379–381, 386, 396, 402, 407
Imperfective Paradox (Dowty 1979) 243
impersonal verb 171, 174
in fact 253–259, 262–263, 267–269, 271–
275
indexicality 380
Indian English 237, 240
inference 223, 228–229, 242–245, 282–
283, 285–286, 297–300, 416–418
intersubjective positioning 379–380, 383,
386, 411–412, 424
legitimising strategies 413–415, 421, 424,
438, 440
manner 317, 323, 332, 341–346, 349–350,
352–353
may/might 58, 360–361, 438–439
mirativity 317, 320, 333–334, 337, 346–347,
351, 353
modal 281–286, 290–291, 294, 299, 301–
302, 304, 308, 311, 312
modal auxiliaries 57–58, 63, 65, 73, 76, 95,
99, 101
modal/modality, eﬀective vs. epistemic 3,
14–24, 27, 32, 37–38, 51–52
modality 3, 104, 106–108, 119, 178, 221–
226, 242, 257, 360–362, 379–380,
383–385, 393, 405, 407, 408
multifunctional 281, 284, 288–291, 301,
304, 308, 311–312
must 95, 100–103, 108, 111–112
must/should 360
necessity 171–173, 175, 178, 180, 184–185,
187, 196–197
need 171–173, 175–176, 178–184, 187–197
need to 95, 109, 111–112
newspaper discourse 285, 361
news-related blogs 359, 362–366, 371, 374–
375
non-speciﬁc nouns 221, 226, 232–236
obviously 320–321, 345–349, 351
opinion 324–327, 337–338, 340, 353
optative 121, 124, 133–135
orientation-switch 225
parenthetical 285–288, 293–298, 301, 304,
309
percentage swing 66, 69, 71, 73, 75, 78–79,
85
448 Subject index
personal pronouns 368, 379–380, 386, 388,
394, 396, 403, 407–408
plainly 321, 345, 350, 352
plausibly 321, 323, 331–333, 351
positively 321, 341, 344, 352
possibly 319, 321, 323–324, 328–331, 334,
351
Postcolonial Englishes 156, 163, 166
pragmatic map 253, 274, 277
prescriptivism 157, 166
present tense 201, 203–204, 207, 209, 212,
218
progressive aspect 201–219
proverb 141–142, 146, 150
quasi-modals 155–167
raising 30, 32–33, 35–36, 50, 281–282, 312
REALITY 253–254, 268–270, 272–273, 275,
277
reality conception 6, 15, 17, 40–41, 46, 48
really 253–260, 262–277
recent change 62
register variation 127, 129–131, 133
responsibility 47–48, 388, 398, 411–412,
414, 422, 424, 428, 430–431, 435–436,
439
Romance languages/verbs/modals 171,
173–175, 191, 194, 196–197
semantic map 253, 255, 272–273, 277
semantic network 205–206, 210, 218
simple present 201–205, 207–209, 212,
215–216, 218
simple swing 69–73, 75–78
SINCERITY 253–254, 269–270, 273, 277
Singapore English 237–241
Spanish 172–173, 175, 187, 196–197
spoken English 57–58, 61–62, 88, 90
stance 258, 379–384, 386, 390, 403–404,
407–408, 411–414, 426–427
stancetaking 411–414, 441
Standard English 95
standard of comparison 145–148, 150
subjective/intersubjective 10–11, 40, 272–
273, 281–283, 285, 297–298, 307, 309,
388, 403, 411–412, 424–425, 428, 435–
436
subjectivity/intersubjectivity 227, 283, 379,
384, 411–414, 417, 422, 424–430, 435–
436, 438–439, 441–442
surprise 207, 211–212, 219
tensed verb phrases 65–69, 72–79, 84, 86,
91, 93
text category 63–64, 66–67, 71–75, 78, 84–
88, 91, 93
translation (zero) correspondence 284,
289–312
transparency 3, 30–33, 35–38, 51
truly 253–254, 256–259, 265–270, 273–275
TRUTH 253–254, 268–270, 272–273, 277
want to 95, 111–112, 155, 158–163, 165
will/would 58, 360, 368, 374, 438–439
zero subject 136, 138–140
Subject index 449
