The discovery of evidential meaning and evidentials in (German) linguistics 21
In Smirnova (2006, 2007) the development of the evidential meaning of
werden & infinitive has been described in the context of the development
of the construction würde & infinitive. It has been shown that the temporal
function of the construction werden & infinitive evolved as one of several
possible interpretations of a more abstract semantics that werden & infini-
tive had acquired in the Middle High German (henceforth: MHG) period.
The grammaticalization channel for werden & infinitive is sketched as the
development from an aspectual (ingressive) verb through a marker of a
sequential relation towards an inferential evidential, which marks the prop-
osition as anchored in the speaker’s inference. This path can be noted as
follows:
ingressive meaning >
indicating a relation of sequence >
inferential evidential
This developmental path of a German evidential construction also has
cross-linguistic validity: it is generally accepted that inferential evidentials
arise from perfective aspectual forms (cf. Anderson 1986, Willett 1988,
Aikhenvald 2004).
Finally, the paper by Diewald and Smirnova [in press] is an explicitly
preparatory study to this book as it roughly sketches the historical devel-
opment of each of the four German evidential constructions and ascribes to
them a common developmental path leading to a system of inferential evi-
dentials in German. It is argued, first, that the inhomogeneity of the
present-day evidential system of German is due to different ages and
grammaticalization degrees of the four evidential constructions: whereas
werden & infinitive and scheinen & zu-infinitive are relatively old and
highly grammaticalized as evidentials, the infinitive constructions with
drohen and versprechen started their development towards evidentials only
in the course of the 18th
century. Therefore, the latter two still show (syn-
tactic) restrictions and (semantic) nuances which are due to the preserva-
tion of their lexical semantics, which is a quite common phenomenon in
language change and is referred to by the term “persistence” (Hopper
1991). Second, the paper delineates the development of the four German
inferential evidential constructions as a process, in which each one of the
four constructions started out from a different source, successively con-
verging with the others in one common and general path of grammaticali-
zation for inferential evidentials. This development will be treated exten-
sively in the sections of this book that deal with diachronic aspects.
22 Introduction
Though there are no other studies explicitly concerned with the devel-
opment of evidential expressions in German, there is some work taking up
related questions, like the diachronic development of erstwhile aspectual
constructions, e.g. the ingressive infinitive constructions with gistantan or
biginnan & infinitive (e.g. Wilmanns 1906, Schmid 2000, Westvik 2000).
In connection with werden & infinitive, they may be seen as direct ances-
tors of evidential constructions, and thus may be generally seen as potential
source constructions of evidential markers (see Chapter 8).
Furthermore, several studies deal with the diachrony of the German
construction werden & infinitive and – though often not explicitly – recog-
nize the strong evidential semantics of this construction. Kotin 2003, for
example, defines werden & infinitive as an essentially prognostic construc-
tion with its prognostic meaning having arisen from the aspectual ingres-
sive semantics of werden. Lerch 1942 classifies the construction werden &
infinitive as the “Futurum des zu Erwartenden” [expected future], empha-
sizing that the expectation is always anchored in the present experience.
Hence it can be said that the strong speaker-oriented semantics of werden
& infinitive and its close relation to the experience and knowledge sphere
of the speaker are generally recognized in German linguistics. However,
the opinions about the exact nature and origin of this link (to the speaker)
differ significantly: most often the speaker involvement is treated as an
epistemic modal component arising historically from the reinterpretation of
the temporal meaning of the construction.
As will be expounded in later chapters, we do not agree with the pro-
posals that the core meaning of werden & infinitive is an epistemic modal
or a temporal meaning. Rather, we contend that the temporal value of wer-
den & infinitive has developed parallel to its evidential meaning (see Salt-
veit 1962 for a similar view).
At this point, it is necessary to say some words on the role of the notion
of subjectivity or subjectification in the diachronic development of eviden-
tial constructions, although this topic, too, will have to be treated later in
more detail. Most of the studies dealing with the cognates of the English
verbs promise and threaten (see especially Traugott 1997 for English, De
Haan 1999 for Dutch, Cornillie 2004, 2005 for Spanish) emphasize the role
of subjectification in the semantic change of these verbs. Subjectification
is conceived by these authors as a major type of semantic change in the
initial stages of grammaticalization and is considered the motivating force
for the shift in meaning occurring in both verbs. Traugott 1997 describes
this as follows:
Hypotheses and theoretical foundations 23
The motivation for the development of the raising uses of promise and
threaten is part of a general process whereby epistemic meanings gradually
shift from more “objective” possibility based in general beliefs and attitudes
to a more “subjective” possibility based in the individual speaker’s belief or
attitude. In other words, the assessment of truth becomes “relativized to a
speaker”. […] It is an epistemic meaning that, as we have seen, involves the
speaker’s tentative judgment of likelihood based on appearances as well as
expectations and knowledge. (Traugott 1997: 198-199)
We agree that the meaning of evidential versprechen and drohen can be
conceived as a “subjective” meaning as compared to their “objective” lexi-
cal meanings: as evidential markers, they relate the proposition to the inner
world of the speaker, whereas as main verbs they describe a situation oc-
curring in the “world out there”. Seen from this angle, the former variants
of the verbs may be called more “subjective” than the latter.12
However,
the notion of subjectification is taken to be a highly problematic one here,
and we will not use this term as a central concept in our own investigation.
Summing up this section on the research history on evidentiality in
German we can make the following points:
1. It is under dispute whether there is a grammatical category of eviden-
tiality in present-day German.
2. There is no agreement on the question whether these verbs and con-
structions should be seen as pertaining to the domain of epistemic
modality, aspectuality, temporality, or evidentiality.
3. Though German is acknowledged to have verbal constructions with evi-
dential meaning which emerged in the history of the German language, a
synchronic as well as diachronic study on them in the light of the gram-
maticalization is still missing.
4. There is no extensive study that concentrates on the grammatical sys-
tem of evidential markers of German (i.e. their interrelations, similari-
ties, paradigmatic organization), or looking for a common diachronic
developmental path.
3. Hypotheses and theoretical foundations
This book intends to close the gap described at the end of the previous
section and sets out to give a comprehensive description of the semantic-
functional domain of evidentiality in German, as far as verbal constructions
are concerned. The hypothesis steering this endeavour is exactly that Ger-
24 Introduction
man does have an evolving system of evidential markers. Thus, this book is
intended to provide a study of the evidential system of German and its de-
velopment with special attention to the semantics and frequency of particu-
lar evidential markers.
The central hypothesis can be broken down into more specific hypo-
theses which we divide into three groups:
1. Hypotheses concerning the synchronic evidential system of PDG.
2. Hypotheses concerning the diachronic development of the four con-
structions into evidential markers.
3. Hypotheses concerning more general theoretical issues.
Table 3 summarizes the hypotheses underlying this study:
Table 3. Hypotheses of this study
Central hypothesis:
German is about to develop a system of evidential markers by grammaticalization
of four constructions with infinitives and the verbs scheinen, versprechen, drohen
and werden.
Derived hypotheses:
1. Hypotheses concerning the synchronic evidential system of present-day German
− The constructions werden & infinitive, and scheinen/drohen/versprechen &
zu-infinitive are evidential markers in present-day German.
− The four evidential constructions are grammaticalized to a relatively high de-
gree.
− They build a paradigm in German and represent distinctions within the domain
of indirect inferential evidentiality.
− German has developed a new grammatical category, the category of evidential-
ity, which is integrated into the growing system of verbal periphrastic para-
digms in German.
2. Hypotheses concerning the diachronic development of the four constructions
− Their diachronic development since OHG can be described as a process of
grammaticalization.
− The grammaticalization paths of these constructions can be traced with refer-
ence to known paths for the development of evidentials.
− In German, there are two basic source constructions from which these inferen-
tial evidential meanings arise diachronically. As will be shown in the course of
this book, one of them represents a successive relationship between two events
and the other codes a simultaneous relationship between two events.
3. Hypotheses concerning more general theoretical issues
Hypotheses and theoretical foundations 25
− There is a clear conceptual distinction between evidential markers and epis-
temic modality markers (i.e modal verbs).
− Evidentials overlap with epistemic modality markers in particular areas in line
with general cognitive principles.
− Evidentials, like epistemics, are deictic grammatical markers.
− The grammaticalization of evidentials in German can be described as a change
of the semiotic status of the lexical non-deictic source items to grammatical
deictic markers.
As we propose to treat the development of evidentials in German as a typi-
cal case of grammaticalization, grammaticalization theory, by necessity, is
the dominant theoretical backing of this book (Hopper and Traugott [1993]
2003, Bybee 1994, Lehmann [1982] 1995, Diewald 1997). From a diach-
ronic perspective, grammaticalization is a process whereby lexical entities
develop grammatical functions in the course of time, or where elements
which already display grammatical functions develop further or more cen-
tral grammatical functions. As Lehmann (2004: 155) points out, the es-
sence of the process can be characterized by two general features: the loss
of autonomy of the linguistic material involved and the integration into the
obligatory rules of the grammatical system, i.e. into a paradigm.
Furthermore, linguistic constructions with an increasing grammatical
functionality tend to converge into a common grammaticalization path or
channel. As has been shown in typological and grammaticalization studies,
grammaticalization channels are a universal phenomenon, resting on the
fact that particular grammatical categories typically derive from particular
source lexemes or source structures and evolve via particular chronologi-
cally ordered stages which display specific characteristics (Bybee, Perkins
and Pagliuca 1994, Heine, Claudi and Hünnemeyer 1991, Lehmann [1982]
1995, Diewald 2002). The establishment of grammaticalization paths is
one of the major concerns of diachronic grammaticalization studies. In
accordance with this – and as mentioned above – one of the central aims of
this book is to establish possible grammaticalization channels for eviden-
tial markers in German.
As grammaticalization is a particular type of language change, the gen-
eral tendencies and motivations for change in linguistic systems constitute
the overall background of this study. The position taken here is a clearly
functional one, which is the only one compatible with grammaticalization
theory and with the claim to integrate universal and category specific cha-
racteristics with the factual particulars of the German language.
26 Introduction
Furthermore the perspective taken here is in part compatible with no-
tions developed in the last decades under the label of construction gram-
mar. The issues susceptible to constructional notions are the impact of
contextual factors in linguistic changes, and the notions “context types”
and “constructions” which play a role in the description of the successive
diachronic stages that are associated with grammaticalization processes (cf.
Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca 1994: 11, Bisang 1998: 20, Traugott 2003,
Fillmore, Kay and O’Connor 1988, Fillmore and Kay 1995, Goldberg
1995, 2004, Kay and Fillmore 1999, Michaelis 2004, Diewald 2002, 2006).
It will be argued that context types are diachronic variations of specific
constructions and that some of the central notions of construction grammar
can be applied in order to develop a more systematic and general way to
describe these types of context, and to help solve some notorious problems
of investigating diachronic change in general and the development of evi-
dential markers in German in particular.
As mentioned above, evidentiality has been first discovered by typolo-
gists working with non-Indo-European languages, and the impressive body
of typological work on this topic is the substantial basis of our classifica-
tion of evidential distinctions in German (see in particular Anderson 1986,
Willett 1988, Plungian 1998, 2001 and Aikhenvald 2003, 2004). Further-
more, there is a close link between grammaticalization studies and typolo-
gy, and there are known paths of grammaticalization of evidential systems
leading from diverse lexical sources and their particular constructions to
different subtypes of evidentials (cf. e.g. Anderson 1986, Aikhenvald 2003,
2004). For instance, direct evidentials often develop out of verbs of percep-
tion and locative markers; indirect evidentials evolve from perfects, resul-
tatives and past tenses; reportive evidentials come from verbs of speech
etc. The essence of all these studies is that evidentiality is a much more
important and prominent category than scholars used to assume. In the
following we will show that, in their diachronic development, the German
evidential constructions derive from characteristic lexical sources and fol-
low specific patterns of change. In addition to the synchronic evidence
these diachronic facts strongly support our view that the four German con-
structions under consideration here are evolving evidentials.
Typological support for our hypotheses comes from the fact that the de-
velopment in German is not unique. As recent studies on different Euro-
pean languages have revealed, similar (lexical) expressions have been de-
veloping evidential functions, most often the cognates of the English verbs
seem, promise and threaten (see especially Traugott 1997 for English,
Cornillie 2007 for Spanish, Squartini 2001, 2004 for Italian and other
Methodology and corpora 27
Romance languages, Giacalone Ramat and Topadze 2007 for Italian, Ver-
hagen 2000 and Vliegen 2006 for Dutch etc.). These verbs have been de-
veloping towards evidential (semi-)auxiliaries indicating indirect, i.e. infe-
rential, evidentiality. Such parallel developments among several languages
suggest that there is a common developmental path for evidential markers
(which is productive at least in European languages) that has not yet been
recognized and sufficiently described so far. We will draw on these studies
whenever it is illuminating for our purpose.
By conducting a large-scale corpus-based study employing different
text types and/or registers, it is possible to determine to what extent Ger-
man has grammaticalized the expression of evidentiality in its diachronic
stages, and to show which roads the development has taken. With these
new data and results, it will be possible to compare German to other lan-
guages with evidential systems as to the degrees of grammaticalization, the
patterns of use and meaning extensions of evidential markers. Moreover, as
the German system is a complex one and displays some interesting idio-
syncrasies, its thorough exposition and description will provide a valuable
in-depth case study for typological comparison, which will lead to further
refinement of general assumptions on the developmental paths of eviden-
tial markers. In particular we hope that the hypotheses and arguments pre-
sented in this book will contribute to the general discussion on evidentiali-
ty, especially on evidentiality in European languages. Finally, if our
hypotheses prove right, grammatical descriptions as well as diachronic
accounts of German will have to be supplemented by a chapter on eviden-
tials markers.
4. Methodology and corpora
As sketched in the last section, this study combines several theoretical
strands of modern linguistic research, i.e., grammaticalization theory, func-
tionalist models of language change, construction grammar and typology,
in order to set up a scenario for the development of verbal evidential con-
structions in German. Furthermore, the theoretical approach is underpinned
with extensive empirical work done as corpus analyses, including a diach-
ronic study and a synchronic analysis of the system of evidentials in
present-day German. The task of the corpus studies is two-fold: for one
part, they are to test the validity of the hypotheses put forward, for the oth-
er part, the corpora supply valuable material for illustrating the richness of
the category of evidentiality in German and thus demonstrate the impor-
28 Introduction
tance of this neglected category. The following paragraphs give an over-
view of the corpora used, the principles of the empirical work, and some
general information on how the data where processed.
4.1. The data sources of the present study
Data for this study were drawn from a number of German text corpora. As
the focus of this study is on both the historical development of German
evidential constructions and their synchronic status, the corpora used
represent various historical periods of German as far back as the Old High
German period.
The core of the empirical work is a corpus based investigation on the
rise and development of the evidential markers from periphrastic verbal
constructions in the history of the German language, whereby the full span
of the history of German, i.e., from Old High German of the 8th
century to
PDG is considered. The focus is on the verbal periphrastic constructions
with the verbs werden, scheinen, drohen, versprechen. Apart from them,
additional forms such as AcI-constructions with perception verbs, ingres-
sive participial and infinitive constructions in earlier stages of the language
will be occasionally included in the scope of the study, as they in some
cases served as predecessors of the present evidential markers, but were
not (fully) integrated into the grammatical category of evidentiality in
German. For the most part we refer here to the traditional division of the
German historical periods into four larger segments, four idealized succes-
sive diachronies:
(i) Old High German (Althochdeutsch, henceforth OHG) covers the pe-
riod from 750 to 1050,
(ii) Middle High German (Mittelhochdeutsch, henceforth MHG) covers
the period between 1050 and 1350,
(iii) Early New High German (Frühneuhochdeutsch, henceforth ENHG) is
defined as the period between 1350 and 1650, and
(iv) New High German (Neuhochdeutsch, NHG) is the term used for the
most recent period in the history of German, starting from 1650.
For the purposes of this study, we divided the last period into two sub-
periods. On the one hand, data up to the 19th
century were collected and
analyzed separately (when needed, see below) in order to discover relevant
changes that occurred to the verbs scheinen, drohen and versprechen. On
Methodology and corpora 29
the other hand, data from the 20th
and 21st
centuries were taken as the basis
for the synchronic analysis. Text material from present-day corpora of
German was investigated in order to detect the current degree of grammati-
calization of each of the four constructions and, furthermore, to analyze the
present-day system of evidential distinctions. In the following, this period
will be referred to as present-day German (henceforth PDG).
The following paragraphs introduce the corpora that were used to obtain
data for the diachronic as well as synchronic analyses. We will also briefly
outline the motivations behind the use of these corpora.
The OHG data analyzed in this study were drawn from the KALI-
corpus. The KALI-corpus is a diachronic corpus of German containing 25
representative texts from the OHG and MHG periods (roughly 250,000
tokens). The earliest text dates from around 790. Some texts are completely
glossed using an adaptation of the Leipzig Glossing Rules13
in order to
make at least some of the texts accessible to researchers less familiar with
the diachronic stages of German.
The corpus has been designed for the study of grammaticalization phe-
nomena in German over the last years. As setting up a diachronic corpus is
a large and laborious task, it is in place here to spend some words on the
reasons for venturing on that undertaking. Although many historical texts
already have been digitized, e.g., in TITUS,14
Bibliotheca Augustana,15
MHDBDB16
etc., the present situation of diachronic corpora of German is
not yet satisfactory. Indeed, there exist a number of text collections of dif-
ferent sizes and formats. However, there are neither common standards for
digitization, meta-information, or text annotation; nor are there commonly
used, unified search interfaces. Furthermore, many of the digitized texts are
not available to the general public. A large project, DeutschDiachronDigit-
al (DDD), has been planned during the last years. It aims at creating a gen-
erally available, unified resource with common standards and search pro-
grams (cf. e.g. Lüdeling et al. 2004). However, the project is still at its
initial stage and its resources are not yet available.
For these reasons we decided to compile a (new) diachronic text corpus
which is focussed on our particular research interests on the one hand, and
is oriented towards common standards and formats of digitizing and anno-
tation on the other.17
All texts in the corpus are partially morphologically annotated. As we
aim to study the grammaticalization of German evidential constructions,
the annotation of the corpus data, which constitutes the fundamental empir-
ical basis of the study, has been restricted to verbal units (finite and infi-
nite) in their occurrences through all documented periods. The morpholog-
30 Introduction
ical annotation parameters determine a hierarchical tag-set containing the
grammatical categories of finiteness, inflection, tense, mood, person, and
number (cf. Lehmberg, Diewald and Smirnova 2007). Each verbal token is
thoroughly analyzed by tagging it with information regarding person, num-
ber, tense and mood. In addition to this the matching headwords and trans-
lation terms are added to each token.
Examples from the KALI-corpus cited in this study will be indicated by
the author and the position of the token within the corpus (which is mostly
the position of one of the four verbs werden, scheinen, versprechen and
drohen).18
As the amount of the MHG data gained from the KALI-corpus is rela-
tively small, we collected further MHG data from another corpus of this
period of German. The Mittelhochdeutsches Wörterbuch19
(hereafter
MHDWB) is an online dictionary of MHG containing the German vocabu-
lary from the period between 1050 and 1350. It is based on a text corpus
composed of MHG texts of various types. Though the text corpus itself is
not available for search and reading purposes directly, a list of examples
from the corpus for each lexeme is obtainable via the Belegarchiv (‘exam-
ples data base’). That means that the lexemes stored in the dictionary are
connected to a digitalized text archive containing the data from the text
corpus. Thus by searching for a particular lexeme one can also receive a
list of examples from the corpus illustrating the contexts of use of this lex-
eme.
Unfortunately, there is no information concerning the overall number of
tokens in the corpus. The corpus consists of around 1300 texts. The com-
plete list of the texts is available on the project webpage.
Examples cited in this book will be indicated according to the (internal)
abbreviation standards of the MHDWB which identify the text title and the
position of the example in the text.
By collecting the data from the ENHG period, we primarily consulted
the Bonner Frühneuhochdeutschkorpus (hereafter B20
). This corpus con-
tains 40 representative texts of the ENHG period, which are arranged ac-
cording to dialect areas. All tokens in the texts are annotated regarding
their word class membership and (partially) their morphological form.
There are roughly 608,000 tokens in the corpus (an exact count is unavail-
able).
As every example can easily be traced back in the online available cor-
pus, and as the texts in the corpus do not exceed the size of about 30 pages,
examples cited in this study will be indicated only by the text number (e.g.
B 141).
Methodology and corpora 31
Additional ENHG data were drawn from the Bibliotheca Augustana21
and the Glonings Corpus.22
Examples taken from these corpora will be
marked by ‘BA’ (for Bibliotheca Augustana) or by ‘G’ (for Glonings Cor-
pus) and by the text title.
As noted above, for the purposes of this study, we divided the New
High German period into two sub-periods. This is due to the following
considerations:
First, the development of the evidential construction with the verb
scheinen started in the ENHG period. In PDG, however, the construction is
already highly grammaticalized as an evidential marker, as has been re-
vealed from the analysis of the present-day data. In order to reconstruct the
intermediate stages in the development of this construction, we looked at
the data from the 18th
century (and partly from the 19th
century) to detect
relevant changes leading to the establishment of its evidential function.
Second, the infinitive constructions with drohen and versprechen are
the youngest members of the today’s evidential paradigm in German. Their
development towards evidential markers did not start until the 18th
century.
For this reason, the data from the earlier periods of German could not be
used to trace back the exact developmental path of these two constructions.
Therefore, data of the 18th
and 19th
centuries were collected and analyzed
more carefully.
For the 18th
century data we consulted the webpage of the Projekt Gu-
tenberg-DE.23
Examples cited will be indicated by the abbreviation ‘G-
DE’, by the author and by the text title.
The data of the 19th
century originate from the sub-corpora available as
parts of COSMAS-II (Corpus Search, Management and Analysis System)
through the Institut für deutsche Sprache Mannheim24
. We used the HiK
sub-corpus (i.e. historical corpus) consisting of the texts by the authors
Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. This corpus contains ca. 2,900,000 to-
kens. Moreover, we used the texts by the authors Johann Wolfgang von
Goethe and Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm containing roughly 2,100,000 to-
kens.25
Citations will follow the (internal) COSMAS-II standards.
The present-day German data come from the DWDS corpora. The
DWDS26
(Digitales Wörterbuch der deutschen Sprache ‘Digital Dictionary
of the German Language’) provides a sample of roughly 100,000,000 to-
kens of spoken and written German of the 20th
and 21st
centuries. Different
text types are represented in this corpus. The indication ‘Kernkorpus’,
which will be used to mark the citations in this book, refers to the sub-
corpus of written data, whereas ‘Gesprochene Sprache’ refers to the sub-
corpus of spoken data.
32 Introduction
Given the overwhelming size of the corpus, only random samples of the
four verbs were used in this study. The samples contain 1,000 randomly
selected examples per verb.
Apart from the DWDS corpora, some additional sources have been used
to collect more incidental data. So, we have occasionally made use of lan-
guage material found on the Internet (i.e., we ‘googled’ some expressions),
which is, if not a very reliable, certainly an extremely rich resource of
highly informal and unmonitored language use. We have tried to make sure
that Internet examples could be traced to native speakers.
For convenience we conclude this section with Table 4 sketching the
most important databases that were used for the present study. The right
column gives the numbers of examples that were extracted from the corpo-
ra and analyzed.
Table 4. Main sources used in the present study and the overall number of
examples analyzed
historical period of
German
database
(number of tokens,
if available)
examples extracted and
analyzed
Old High German (OHG) KALI (ca. 250,000) ca. 500
Middle High German
(MHG)
KALI (ca. 250,000)
MHDWB (---)
ca. 1,900
Early New High German
(ENHG)
B (ca. 608,000) ca. 4,500
18th
+ 19th
centuries G-DE (---)
IDS (ca. 5,000,000)
ca. 4,500
present-day German
(PDG)
DWDS (ca. 100,000,000) ca. 4,000
It should be noted here that, starting from the period of the 18th
century, in
which a huge amount of digitalized language data is available, we have
tried to get a balanced set of data. To that end, we restricted the data sub-
sets of each verb to about the same size. In doing so we adjusted the num-
ber of examples to be analyzed to the amount of examples we gained for
the ENHG period, i.e., to ca. 4,500. As concerns the earlier periods, i.e.,
OHG and MHG, we investigated all the examples we could extract from
the corpora.
Methodology and corpora 33
4.2. Principles and method of the corpus study
As we have mentioned above, the theoretical considerations presented in
this study will be underpinned with extensive corpus analyses, including a
diachronic study as well as a synchronic analysis of the system of eviden-
tials in PDG. The empirical part of this study consists thus of two basic
parts: a clearly diachronic corpus study, on the one hand, and a synchronic
corpus study, on the other. Surely, these two studies are supportive of each
other, so that we can speak rather of a combination than of a division of the
two approaches. In other words our approach here combines diachrony and
synchrony.
Our investigation rests upon the following general assumptions. First,
the grammaticalization of the verbal constructions under investigation
proceeds diachronically in certain local linguistic contexts. As is generally
known, a continuous interplay between the grammaticalizing construction
and the context may lead to the development of new constructional mean-
ing (cf. e.g. Diewald 2002, Heine 1993, 2002). Constructions which are
free syntactic structures at the beginning of their grammaticalization coa-
lesce over time into verbal periphrases. Hence, periphrastic constructions
develop and become grammatical. It is of particular importance that a
whole periphrastic construction consisting of a single verb plus its infini-
tive (or participle) complement undergoes a process of change. Therefore,
investigating the grammaticalization of verbal evidential constructions in
German, we have to look at these verbs and their syntagmatic relations to
other constituents of the context.
Second, we believe that diachronically observable changes in morphol-
ogy and syntax of the elements under consideration follow or parallel their
semantic reinterpretation processes, which can abe characterized in a
summarizing way by the notions of desemanticization and increased non-
compositionality. Therefore, we may reconstruct semantic shifts by retrac-
ing formal, i.e., morphological or syntactic shifts, diachronically. That
means that shifts on the formal “surface” which can be retraced diachroni-
cally offer valuable clues to shifts on the “deeper” conceptual-semantic
level.
In what follows a few paragraphs will be spent on the principles of our
corpus study which are in accordance with the general assumptions
sketched above. The diachronic corpus-based approach is realized here by
the combined use of different historical corpora and one present-day cor-
pus of German. For each historical period the data are first analyzed inde-
pendently. That is, a synchronic analysis is carried out for the linguistic
34 Introduction
elements under investigation in each of the different historical periods of
German taken here into account. In doing so the overall scope of the con-
struction types of the element in question can be described: variable read-
ings, different morphosyntactic properties, and individual patterns of use
are discovered for each element and its (synchronic) variants. The term
“construction type” is used as a non-technical, theory-independent term in
order to describe the usage patterns of each item, which are composed of
any kind of linguistic features (among them valency frames, topological
patterns etc.). Sections 8.2.3 to 8.2.6 of this book, for example, will deal
with the verb scheinen in the history of German. They are devoted to pre-
senting our findings of such synchronic analyses for each individual histor-
ical period. The construction types of the verb scheinen with their charac-
teristic properties and in their interconnections are described in these
sections. Additionally, prototypical contextual configurations in which the
discovered construction types were used are given particular attention. In
this way, the descriptions of the whole paradigm of each verb (i.e., werden,
scheinen, drohen, and versprechen) in each particular historical period of
German will be offered in the individual sections of Chapter 8.
In the next step the results of the synchronic analyses of the consecutive
historical periods are compared to each other in order to figure out whether
any relevant changes in the overall system had occurred. Here the focus is
on the diachronic issues. The aim is to discover specific contextual confi-
gurations in which existent construction types most probably received new
interpretations and in which new construction types arose. It should be
noted here that only new (or unusual) contexts are considered as relevant
contexts, whereby we regard only those contexts as unusual and new,
which (i) trigger a new interpretation of the whole construction, and, what
is more important, (ii) may be seen as precursors of further new and un-
usual constructions, i.e., which can be considered to have influenced the
overall development of the element in question.
The results of such comparative work will be presented in the final sec-
tions of Chapter 8. Section 8.2.7, for example, gives a summary of the re-
levant changes which occurred to the verb scheinen in the course of the
history of German. The aim of this kind of representation is two-fold. On
the one hand, the grammaticalization path of the evidential construction
scheinen & zu-infinitive will be extracted and presented as an independent
development of scheinen. On the other hand, the grammaticalization
process will be integrated in the changes concerning the whole construc-
tional scope of the verb scheinen. The diachronic development of each
verb will be presented in this manner in Chapter 8.
Methodology and corpora 35
In the final step, the common developmental path for the German evi-
dential markers will be set up. Here, not the individual constructions and
their diachronic developments are in the focus of our interest. Instead, the
entire paradigm of German (inferential) evidentiality will be accounted for
in terms of its grammaticalization. In this vein we attempt to establish a
common grammaticalization path for the German evidential markers, whe-
reby the peculiarities of the individual constructions will be abandoned. In
so doing, we will be concerned
(i) with the general properties of the (lexical) sources which gave rise to
the establishment of evidential meanings,
(ii) with regularities of grammaticalization of the whole paradigm, and
(iii) with main mechanisms of change being at work in the grammaticaliza-
tion of the grammatical category of evidentiality in German.
By establishing a new grammaticalization path for a previously neglected
German category we will contribute to the overall research on grammatica-
lization and typological research.
In addition to the extensive diachronic corpus research a comprehensive
analysis of the present-day data will be undertaken. The aims of this analy-
sis differ from the purposes of a diachronic account in many ways. While
investigating synchronic data of PDG we are not particularly interested in
the overall distribution of different construction types of each verb. In-
stead, the focus will be on the evidential constructions only. We will be
concerned with the contexts of use in which the evidential meaning is pre-
dominantly found. To that end, we first ascertain the degree of grammati-
calization of each evidential construction. For this we contrast the newly
grammaticalized variants of the verbs (within infinitive constructions) with
the original lexical variants of the verbs, which – for all verbs – have been
preserved till PDG. Second, we investigate how the present paradigm of
inferential evidentiality is structured, i.e., how the evidential constructions
under investigation are linked.
For instance, in Section 6.2 we will deal with the synchronic status of
the evidential construction scheinen & zu-infinitive. A brief outline of the
construction types of the verb scheinen will be given at the beginning (see
Section 6.2.1), in order to set the boundaries between the evidential and
other synchronic variants of this verb. In the following sections, semantic
and morphosyntactic properties of the evidential construction, its specific
contexts of use and their distribution, and the interconnections between
different alternative readings of scheinen & zu-infinitive will be discussed
36 Introduction
in greater detail. Other evidential constructions will be described in a simi-
lar manner in Chapter 6.
A summary of our synchronic corpus analysis will be presented in
Chapter 7, where the internal organization of the German evidential para-
digm will be described and where this paradigm will be compared to other
evidential systems known from the typological studies. Language-specific
observations will be thus integrated into the broader typological perspec-
tive.
Some general remarks concerning the principles and methods of our
corpus research are in place. It should be noted that the corpus analysis
conducted here is mainly qualitative. This means that it is oriented towards
careful investigation of contextually induced changes leading to the devel-
opment of evidential functions. Therefore, the corpus studies do not focus
on statistical issues, but on context-sensitive thorough analysis of the items
in question as they appear in our material. We are convinced that grammat-
icalization studies require intensive in-depth linguistic work, which is not
restricted to a quantitative assessment of given linguistic forms and struc-
tures, but goes on to qualitative text interpretation in certain linguistic con-
texts. To make plausible statements on the basis of the mainly qualitative
corpus analysis is thus the main intention of this study.
Our concentration on qualitative analysis is also due to the small
amount of texts passed down from earlier periods (especially from OHG).
Diachronic corpora cannot hope to be representative in the full sense of the
word, so that a quantitative analysis of such corpora would not be repre-
sentative either. The texts and text segments collected from different cor-
pora were fuly investigated and every token of the items in question was
taken into account. Still, the numbers, in particular in the OHG period, are
small and surely not apt for quantitative statements.
Analyzing the data obtained from different corpora, we concentrated
particularly on the following issues: (i) the chronology of appearance of
each relevant construction was ascertained; (ii) the different distribution
patterns of single construction in their diachronic development were inves-
tigated; and (iii) the changes on all levels were interpreted in the sense of
grammaticalization theory (the general underlying principles will be pre-
sented in Chapter 4).
The actual work on the corpora – anachronistically – started with the
present-day data, as they manifest the actual stage of grammaticalization,
i.e., the system of evidential marking that we have in German today. From
this present-day scenario we formed our hypotheses on possible develop-
ments as well as on the possible age of the relevant forms. These forms
Structure of the book 37
were then investigated in the diachronic corpora in the manner described
above. We started from the OHG period and went forwards on the time
line.
As already mentioned above, though the focus lay on the development
of the four verbs which form the lexical core of the evidential construc-
tions, we also – in single cases – investigated constructions which are im-
portant for the development of our forms although they only played a sub-
ordinate role for a small period of time and did not develop into
grammaticalized evidentiality markers. These are, in particular, the ingres-
sive constructions of OHG with the verbs gistantan ‘to stand’ and begin-
nan ‘to begin’, which are combined with infinitives in sentences like the
following:
(14) do ih riuuon gestuont die sunda (Notker II,15,21 taken from Be-
haghel 1924 [II]: 311)
‘as I began to regret the sins’
Our decisions which of these evanescent, extinct forms that cropped up in
the history of German should be treated were guided by our own observa-
tions of spectacular patterns and constructions of semantically or structu-
rally relevant features that we made while working with the corpora.
Last but not least, it has to be mentioned that while the data have been
thoroughly investigated and all evidential forms appearing in them have
been considered in this study, in some places additional linguistic data
found outside the corpora are drawn on if they reveal phenomena not
represented well enough in the data obtained from the sources used. Cita-
tions from other works will be explicitly indicated.
5. Structure of the book
While this first chapter is intended as an overview, Chapters 2 to 5 form
the theoretical core of this book, which is steered by the following necessi-
ties. First, it will be necessary to elaborate a comprehensive definition of
the semantic-functional domain of evidentiality in order to reach clarity
and explicitness in the linguistic metalanguage used to describe evidential
distinctions. This is done in Chapters 2 and 3, which offer a detailed re-
view of current definitions of evidentiality on the basis of typological find-
ings, and argue for a clear separation from other domains. The results of
prior research evaluated in these chapters are measured against the actual
38 Introduction
situation in German and the requirements of this study. At the end of these
two chapters we reach a typologically based definition and classification of
evidentials, which at the same time is adapted to the peculiarities of Ger-
man in order to serve as the theoretical blueprint of the empirical study.
Thus, the outcome of these two chapters is a set of semantic labels or
markers and a classification of relevant distinctions by which the German
system of evidential distinctions can be described in its synchronic state as
well as in its development through time.
The second major untertaking is to provide an overview of the current
system of evidential marking in PDG, to establish relevant distinctions (to
verify the hypotheses of the previous chapters) and to prepare the ground
for the diachronic chapters. As this topic is closely connected to the extent
of grammaticalization of evidential markers in PDG it calls for an elabora-
tion on the indication of the degrees of grammaticalization for different
constructions; semantic paraphrases, internal distinctions as well as the
integration into the paradigm of modal verbal constructions and the catego-
ry of verbal mood. Chapters 4 and 5 are devoted to these tasks, i.e. marking
our positions concerning language change and grammaticalization. Here,
the major theoretical issues that have to be decided on in order to pursue
our aim are discussed and applied to our research object. For the purposes
of assessing degrees of grammaticalization Lehmann’s grammaticalization
parameters are applied to exemplary evidential constructions. The regulari-
ties of semantic change and paths of grammaticalization are expounded and
again projected onto our object of study. Finally, a model of relevant con-
structions and their succession is developed on the basis of a combination
of grammaticalization paths and central notions of construction grammar.
Chapters 6 to 9 are devoted to the empirical investigation of the four
evidential constructions in German. Chapter 6 presents the synchronic data
gained by the investigation of the present-day German corpus. It provides a
sketch of the system of evidential distinctions as it is found in German
today and thus presents a picture of the current state of the target category
of the process of grammaticalization of evidential markers in present-day
German. Chapters 7 and 8 delineate the details of the development of each
marker as it can be extracted from the diachronic corpus. This part of the
book summarizes the development of the whole system from its OHG be-
ginnings to the situation today: a scenario of the diachronic events and
determining factors of the grammaticalization channels involved in the
grammaticalization of the German evidential constructions.
The last chapter summarizes our findings.
Structure of the book 39
It should be noted that one of our methodological principles is to conti-
nually adjust empirical and theoretical aspects to each other. This means
that although there is a preponderance of theoretical issues in the first half
of the book and a preponderance of empirical data in the second half, both
aspects are closely intertwined, and on several occasions the theoretical
chapters anticipate empirical data in order to model a position which will
be justified by corpus data only in the second half of the book. Vice versa,
the empirical chapters contain theoretical discussions and further reflection
which are directly derived from the discussion of the data presented.
Chapter 2
Evidentiality – definitions and delimitations
As the field of evidentiality is a relatively new one, not all terminological
conventions are accepted by everyone and there are overlapping distinc-
tions in some areas. In order to avoid misunderstandings, this chapter takes
up the discussion on labels and distinctions used for describing semantic
evidential values in typological literature.1
The purpose of this endeavour
is to finally come up with those distinctions that are useful for a correct
and consistent naming and classification of evidential meaning distinctions
(and ultimately evidential markers) in German. However, it should be
noted that though some terminological choices may be arbitrary in the
sense that it in fact does not matter which term to choose, there are others
where the terminology chosen is indicative of an underlying theoretical
conception.
1. Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials
It is common ground among most linguists that evidentiality is a semantic
and functional domain, which, like temporality or modality, may be ex-
pressed by lexical or grammatical means. That is, evidential distinctions
may form a grammatical category in one language, while in the other they
are not obligatory and may be expressed by a variety of linguistic options.
As there are several grammaticalization channels leading towards gram-
maticalized evidential systems we should be prepared to be confronted
with all sorts of intermediate stages. Thus, evidential expressions may be-
long to the lexical as well as to the grammatical layer of a language, or to
some intermediate stage between the two.
As mentioned in Chapter 1.1, we follow the convention of talking of
evidentials or evidential markers only in those cases which we regard as
grammatical categories or grammaticalizing expressions of evidentials (see
below for further discussion). In doing so we follow Anderson (1986: 273-
274), who restricts the term “evidentials” to linguistic expressions
representing “a special grammatical phenomenon”.
In the last decades typologists have described numerous languages of
various non-related families which realize evidentials in the strict sense of
Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials 41
the term. These evidential markers form grammatical paradigms, interact
with other grammatical categories (notably mood and aspect) and show a
diachronic development along the lines of known, category-specific chan-
nels of grammaticalization (Aikhenvald and Dixon 2003, Chafe and Ni-
chols 1986, Johanson and Utas 2000, Nuyts 2001, van der Auwera and
Plungian 1998). A large number of examples of fully grammaticalized sys-
tems of evidential markers is given in Aikhenvald 2004 (see Chapter 1.1).
Irrespective of the existence of a grammaticalized system of evidentials,
every language has a variety of non-grammaticalized expressions and con-
structions carrying evidential meaning. Therefore, in order to be able to
talk about our topic in an unambiguous way, this section is devoted to
drawing the line between evidentials and all other kinds of linguistic ma-
terial, which may be used to express evidential meaning in certain sur-
roundings.
1.1. Terminological distinctions in synchronic perspective
The term evidential expression is a neutral label (a hypernym) used to de-
note any kind of linguistic string with evidential meaning in a particular
context, regardless of its linguistic structure and degree of grammaticaliza-
tion.
On the next level we distinguish between evidentials (evidential mark-
ers), i.e. grammaticalized evidentials (secondary predications denoting the
source of knowledge for a proposition, Anderson 1986: 274; see Section
1.1.1) on one hand, and what Aikhenvald 2004 calls evidential strategies
on the other. These latter are constructions which do have evidential mean-
ing but do not pertain to a grammaticalized system. This fundamental dis-
tinction between evidentials and evidential strategies is given in Figure 5.2
The distinction may be illustrated by examples from PDG. As we have
already claimed in Chapter 1 and as we will prove in the course of this
book, the constructions werden & infinitive and schei-
nen/drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive are evidentials in present-day
German.
(1) a. Der Wasserspiegel wird steigen.
‘The water level is bound to rise.’
b. Der Wasserspiegel droht zu steigen.
‘The water level threatens to rise.’
42 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
c. Der Wasserspiegel verspricht zu steigen.
‘The water level promises to rise.’
d. Der Wasserspiegel scheint zu steigen.
‘The water level seems to rise.’
evidential expression
any linguistic items being used in a particular context
to express evidential meaning
evidential strategies evidentials = evidential markers
non-grammaticalized linguistic devices expressions for evidential
for expressing evidential meaning meaning which are grammati-
calized (to a certain degree)
Figure 5. Terminological distinctions in the domain of evidentiality I (selected
aspects)
These constructions constitute the grammatical core of evidentials in Ger-
man, i.e. the automatised, routinized, backgrounded method of expressing
evidential distinctions in German.
The tests to determine the degree of grammaticalization of the more ad-
vanced stages of developing evidentials are the grammaticalization parame-
ters set up by Lehmann (1985), which will be explained in detail and ap-
plied to the four evidential constructions in Chapter 4. Here, it may suffice
to state that the verbal periphrases3
, i.e. the four infinitive constructions we
are primarily dealing with, show a high degree of grammaticalization in
comparison to other constructions being used as evidential expressions.
As to the open class of evidential strategies, there is a whole range of
expressions belonging there; this has been pointed to before (in Chapter
1.1) and is illustrated here again by the following examples:
(2) a. Sie hört ihn die Treppe heraufkommen.
‘She hears him come up the staircase.’
b. Sie fühlt den Schmerz hinter den Schläfen pochen.
‘She feels the pain throbbing behind her temples.’
Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials 43
c. Sie fängt an, ihren Umzug ins Ausland vorzubereiten.
‘She starts preparing to move abroad.’
d. Sie ist dabei, ihren Umzug ins Ausland vorzubereiten.
‘She is about to prepare to move abroad.’
e. Offensichtlich hat er es getan.
‘Obviously, he has done it.’
Among evidential strategies, there are the AcI-constructions (2a, 2b) as
well as ingressive and progressive constructions (2c, 2d), and there are
adverbials acquiring evidential meaning in certain contexts/constructions.
The AcI-constructions, which are the most obvious peripheral evidential
constructions of PDG, have stayed in the language since the OHG period,
but have been reduced in frequency (type as well as token frequency).
As to the ingressive and progressive constructions, there have been sev-
eral of them in the history of German, some of which have been extant to
the present day, some of which disappeared in the course of time. These
constructions have to be classified as peripheral evidential constructions
of their respective periods. They represent the recognizable part of the
reservoir of potential sources for grammaticalization towards evidentials at
a certain stage, which, however, have not (yet) been exploited for that pur-
pose, i.e. have not been grammaticalized (further).
As we will see later, these constructions may play an important role in
the genesis of evidential systems as they function as a kind of catalyst.
They, too, are evidential expressions in PDG, having two predications and
naming the perceptual sources due to which the scene described in the core
proposition is presented the way it is. As will be shown later, they are typi-
cal peripheral constructions, which are/were potential competitors but are
not integrated in the present-day grammaticalized system.
Constructions like (2d) show that evidential functions may not only be
realized by single morphemes or periphrastic constructions, but show up at
the interface of syntax and semantics in particular, highly specific contexts
or constructions, like the “Verlaufskonstruktion” dabei sein, etw. zu tun ‘to
be about to do something’.
Furthermore, there are constructions using semantically suitable eviden-
tial adverbials like offensichtlich ‘obviously’ in (2e). Examples like (2e)
have a constructional component, as the position of the adverbial is rele-
vant for its most likely meaning, compare (2f) to (2g):
44 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
(2) f. Er hat es offensichtlich ja getan.
‘Obviously, he has JA done it.’
g. Er hat es ja offensichtlich getan.
‘He has JA done it in front of everybody.’
While offensichtlich in (2f) has scope over the modal particle ja and thus
clearly evidential meaning, (2g) may be given a different reading: as the
MP ja has scope over offensichtlich the latter can be interpreted as a verb
phrase adverbial ‘visible to everyone’/‘so that everybody can see’.
This observation can be linked to the universal, topological restrictions
concerning evaluative, evidential, and epistemic adverbials and modal par-
ticles, which where first observed by Cinque 1999 and can be related to
grammaticalization data on evidential constructions in the verbal domain
(cf. Speas 2004, Pittner 1999: 178). In (2e), on the other hand, there is no
ambiguity concerning different readings: the evidential reading of offen-
sichtlich is the only one possible, as long as it does not bear contrastive
stress.
As the evidential strategies comprise a very large group of diverging
forms, it will be necessary to subdivide this class further. In order to be
able to talk about synchronic differences among the evidential strategies,
we need to distinguish peripheral evidential constructions, which have
already been mentioned from evidential periphrasis.
While evidential periphrases (see Note 3) are expressions used ad hoc
to encode evidential meaning (via conversational implicature), peripheral
evidential constructions are those which are identifiable constructions ste-
reotypically expressing evidential meaning which might develop/have de-
veloped into evidential markers, but are/have stayed peripheral to the sys-
tems, or have been reduced to a peripheral status in the course of history.
They are not predecessors/source constructions of the evidential markers of
the synchronic system, but potential or former competitors to them. An
excellent example for peripheral evidentials are the the AcI-constructions
of PDG. Examples (2a-b) are taken up here again as (3a-b) and supple-
mented by further AcI-constructions. While (3c) with the visual perception
verb sehen ‘see’ is a common and stereotypical construction (as are 3a-b),
(3d) with the olfactorial verb riechen ‘smell’ is less acceptable, and (3e)
with the verb bemerken ‘remark’, ‘notice’ is not accepted as a correct con-
struction by most speakers of German today. (3f) finally, with verbs of
thinking and assuming is clearly inacceptable in the language of today.
Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials 45
(3) a. Sie hört ihn die Treppe heraufkommen.
‘She hears him come up the staircase.’
b. Sie fühlt den Schmerz hinter den Schläfen pochen.
‘She feels the pain throbbing behind her temples.’
c. Sie sah ihn die Treppe hinablaufen.
‘She saw him run down the staircase.’
d. ???Sie roch die Kartoffeln anbrennen.
‘She smelt the potatoes burning.’
e. *?Sie bemerkte die Kartoffeln anbrennen/ihn die Treppe
hinablaufen.
‘She noticed the potatoes burning/him run down the staircase.’
f. *Sie vermutete/glaubte/wusste ihn die Treppe hinablaufen.
‘She assumed/believed/knew him run down the staircase.’
any linguistic item being used in a particular context
to express evidential meaning
evidential strategies
evidential periphrases peripheral evidential constructions evidentials
any ad hoc constructions stereotypical constructions
expressing evidential expressing evidential meaning/
meaning “would be” evidentials
Figure 6. Terminological distinctions in the domain of evidentiality II
(completed view)
In sum AcI-constructions in PDG are a fixed set of constructions with
heavy semantic and syntactic restrictions and a clear evidential meaning,
which however is not fully grammaticalized. As far as the history of AcI-
constructions is concerned, they were much more frequent and had a much
wider distribution and fewer restrictions as to the matrix verb in OHG and
MHG. Considering their lexical source semantics and the potential of the
whole construction, they in principle would have been apt candidates for
grammaticalizing into full-fledged evidential markers. However, they de-
46 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
clined in the course of the development of the German language and today
are restricted to more or less stereotypical usages.
In short, peripheral evidential constructions are “would be” evidentials
which, however, are not integrated into the present system of evidential
marking. Therefore, we can complete our diagram as illustrated in Figure 6
above.
1.2. Terminological distinctions in diachronic perspective
As we are also concerned with the diachronic rise of evidential meaning,
and as diachronic development is typically gradual (if not in its onset than
at least in its spread, like e.g. word order change), we need to distinguish
between different chronological stages as well, i.e. we need a further label
to name the predecessors of evidential markers. We call them pre-
evidentials. The distinction between pre-evidentials and evidentials is one
of chronological succession and descent: pre-evidentials are the known
predecessors of evidentials, which do not yet display the relevant grammat-
icalization features, but do have an appropriate semantics to develop evi-
dential meaning later on.4
In the German case, the diachronic lexical
sources of evidentials are mostly verbs or verbal constructions.
Thus, while verbal evidential markers are secondary predications which
specify the information the speakers relies on for making his statement,
verbal pre-evidentials are not; instead they are the lexical origin of verbal
evidential markers.
This means that the decision whether a construction qualifies as a pre-
evidential can be made only ex post, i.e. from a retrospective when its
grammaticalization was successful. The following OHG example of schei-
nen shows a pre-evidential construction with the original lexical meaning
of the verb scheinen.
(4) Óstar filu férro/so scéin uns ouh ther stérro. (KALI, Otfrid, 12892)
‘In the east, very far … so shone for us also the star.’
Depending on the peculiarities of linguistic change in a particular instance,
pre-evidential constructions may die out and leave the field to the gram-
maticalized constructions, or they may persist as normal lexical items, thus
leading to a lexical split of the sign in question into two coexisting items: a
lexical sign and a grammaticalized sign. This latter alternative has hap-
pened to all four evidential constructions we are dealing with here. A case
Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials 47
in point is present-day scheinen, which exists as an evidential marker (like
in (5a)) as well as a lexical verb continuing the old pre-evidential, i.e. lexi-
cal meaning as in (5b).
(5) a. Sie scheint abgereist zu sein.
‘She seems to have left.’
b. Die Sonne scheint.
‘The sun is shining.’
In (4) and (5b), the verb scheinen is used as a verb of visual appearance. It
constitutes the unique verbal centre of the sentence, i.e. it is used as a pri-
mary predication and thus characterizes the verbal scene, which is predi-
cated of the subject. Evidential constructions, on the other hand, as already
mentioned, form a secondary predication on a primary predication, i.e. the
scene which is evaluated (Anderson 1986: 274, cf. also the analysis in
terms of grammaticalization parameter in Chapter 4).
The state of co-existence of lexical and grammaticalized usages (or
constructions) illustrated here for scheinen also applies to the other three
verbs in questions (werden, drohen, versprechen, see later chapters).
The situation is similar for the peripheral evidential constructions. They,
too, can be associated with pre-evidentials, and they may show the same
type of split between lexical (pre-forms) and grammaticalized usages. This
can be seen in the case of the verbs hören ‘hear’ and sehen ‘see’. The OHG
examples in (6) show both verbs used as verbs of perception. This usage is
present in modern German as well, as exemplified in (7).
(6) a. Wir sáhun sinan stérron/thoh wir thera búrgi irron (KALI, Otfrid,
12863)
‘We saw his star, but we missed the town.’
b. wanta er ni hórta man thaz, Thaz io fon mágadburti/man gibóran
wurti (KALI, Otfrid, 12813)
‘Because one never heard that before that ever a man was born by a
virgin.’
(7) a. Wir sehen den Stern.
‘We can see the star.’
b. Wir hören die Worte.
‘We can hear the words.’
48 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
As noted before, these verbs, used in AcI-constructions like in (3), have
developed into (peripheral) evidential markers. AcI-constructions with
these verbs are known in OHG as well; number (8) illustrates this usage for
see:
(8) Tien fórderên rédôn nemág íh uuídere sîn. chád ih. únde dísa
sîderûn sího íh ín nôte fólgên. (KALI, Notker, 5897)
‘I am not able to argue against these earlier speeches, I said, and I see
this later one follow them by necessity.’
This is to say that these peripheral evidential constructions have been in
the language since its first attested documents. They have had an evidential
function from their beginning, but did not develop into (members of) the
major evidential category. Accordingly, the AcI-constructions in PDG have
a lower degree of grammaticalization than the evidentials proper. Peripher-
al evidential constructions display a clear evidential meaning (and a certain
degree of grammaticalization), other construction types, which we class
among pre-evidentials here, show readings with ambiguity between eviden-
tial and non-evidential meanings, like the following ones:5
(9) a. Das klingt wie eine Novemberdepression.
‘This sounds like a November depression.’
b. Das hört sich ja recht gut an.
‘This sounds REFL.PRON JA quite good VERBAL PARTICLE.’
c. Das sieht wie eine echte Verschwörung aus.
‘This looks like a real conspiracy VERBAL PARTICLE.’
These sentences have only one verb (one predication) and therefore do not
qualify as evidential constructions. Nevertheless, the perception verbs used
here are ambiguous between perceptual meaning and evidential meaning.
The verb klingen, which usually has the meaning of ‘making an acoustic
impression’/‘emitting sound’ may also be understood here as ‘implying
that’/‘giving reason to conclude’, as paraphrased in (9a1-2):
(9) a1.‘This gives an acoustic impression/emits sound like (I imagine) a
November depression does.’
a2.‘This is evidence for the proposition: ‘This is a November depres-
sion’’.
Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials 49
The verb hören in the construction sich anhören wie (9b) is equally ambi-
guous between ‘hear’ in the sense of ‘perceive acoustically’ and in the
sense of ‘getting to know’/‘being told’. Thus we get as alternative read-
ings:
(9) b1. ‘The accoustic quality of this is quite pleasant/good.’
b2. ‘The acoustic (linguistic) event is evidence for the proposition:
‘This is good’’.
And, finally, the verbal construction aussehen wie ‘to look like’ is in prin-
ciple ambiguous between ‘to produce the visual effect of x’ or ‘to give
evidence for x happening/being the case’.
(9) c1.‘This gives the visual effect of a true conspiracy.’
c2.‘There is evidence for the proposition: ‘This is a conspiracy’’.
In short, there is ambiguity in the source lexical items, which is usually
resolved by context and which we would usually put down to conversa-
tional implicatures (see also Chapter 5 on semantic change).
Returning to the major aim of this chapter, laying out and defining use-
ful terminology, we may note the following: the path from a pre-evidential
to an evidential usually leads via an evidential strategy, i.e. a communica-
tively motivated pattern of usage in various stages of stereotypicality (see
Chapter 5). As Figures 5 and 6 take a synchronic-systematic, i.e. stative per-
spective and do not display the dynamic dimension, the diachronic implica-
tions have to be captured by a separate diagram. This is done in Figure 7,
whereby “t” represents an (idealized) stage, i.e. a distinct period, an assumed
synchrony in diachronic succession, while the arrow represents the gradual-
ness of the passage through time as well as of the development of linguistic
signs. With these distinctions it is possible to capture the general relevant
features of linguistic forms with evidential meaning under the synchronic
as well as the diachronic perspective.
Time line t1 t2 t3
Linguistic status pre evidentials > evidential strategies > evidentials
Figure 7. Diachronic development
50 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
1.3. The dispute on the status of evidential expressions in European
languages
It will be appropriate here to briefly take up two issues raised by Aikhen-
vald (2004: 3-11), who argues vehemently against the existence of eviden-
tial markers in European languages. Her arguments concern first the rela-
tions between epistemic modality and evidentiality, and, second, varying
degrees of grammaticalization in particular expressions. As we equally
vehemently argue for the existence of evidentials in (at least) one European
language, this matter deserves some attention.
In her discussion on the distinction between evidentiality and epistemic
modality Aikhenvald comments on the fact that modal verbs in European
languages often have evidential overtones and usages. She points out that –
contrary to the opinion of many scholars – this is neither an argument for
treating evidentiality as a subcategory of epistemic modality nor for claim-
ing that European languages have evidentials. True as this is, the following
should be kept in mind: the fact that modals are not evidentials does not
mean that European languages lack evidential systems, or evidential con-
structions (see Chapter 3 for a detailed discussion of the relations between
modality and evidentiality).
Furthermore, Aikhenvald emphasizes that the existence of adverbials
with evidential meaning, which are the object of research of many scholars,
is by no means proof of a grammatical category for evidential distinctions
(2004: 5-7).6
Again, we perfectly agree with this view, and will elaborate
on it in the following sections. However, we plead for a closer and more
differentiated look at European languages, and in particular, we plead for a
proper consideration of the fact that grammatical systems develop, and
thereby give rise to systems which are not yet fully grammaticalized, but
display varying degrees and stages of a grammaticalization process.
Though Aikhenvald (2004: 11) admits this, she insists that only fully
grammaticalized evidential systems are worth being treated under the label
of evidentiality, and consequently proposes to restrict the term evidentials
to Non-European languages which do have a fully grammaticalized inflec-
tional system.7
The reason for this position (which in our view, if adhered to, would
hamper linguistic research on evidentials), may lie in the fact that Aikhen-
vald herself does not always distinguish properly between structural issues
and semantic domains. This becomes clear in the following quotation:
Evidentials, evidential strategies and pre-evidentials 51
In about a quarter of the world’s languages, every statement must specify the
type of source on which it is based – for example, whether the speaker saw
it, or heard it, or inferred it from indirect evidence, or learnt it from someone
else. This grammatical category, whose primary meaning is information
source, is called ‘evidentiality’. (Aikhenvald 2004: 1) [our emphasis]
Equating the grammatical category with the name of the domain, i.e. “evi-
dentiality”, is analogous to equating the grammatical category “tense” with
“temporality”.8
This tight and impermeable association of domain and
grammatical category prevents the adequate evaluation of European evi-
dential expressions (with their epistemic overtones, i.e. their semantic con-
flation) as well as an unbiased look at the chronological development, i.e.
at the fact that grammaticalization by necessity implies forms not yet fully
grammaticalized. Therefore, we would like to emphasize the following two
positions as important for our work: Firstly, as evidentiality is a functional
category, its investigation should not be restricted to inflectional morphol-
ogy but consider all types of formal realization of the functional category.
This is to say we should take care not to neglect the form-function distinc-
tion at any time. Secondly, grammaticalization is a gradual process. There-
fore, in trying to investigate its details, it would be counterproductive to
restrict attention to fully developed grammaticalized systems. In other
words: Though Aikhenvald is absolutely right in emphasizing the necessity
to distinguish between evidential grammatical systems on one hand, and
optional expressions of evidential meaning on the other, it is a gross omis-
sion to neglect the gradualness of grammaticalization and to exclude all
items with only intermediate degrees of grammaticalization from further
consideration in the context of research in evidentials.
The constructions we are investigating here, i.e. werden & infinitive
and scheinen/drohen/verprechen & zu-infinitive, like many analogous con-
structions in other languages found in the Indo-European family, clearly
are of an intermediate stage as concerns the degree of grammaticalization,
i.e. they are not yet full-fledged grammaticalized evidential systems as
compared to those systems invoked by Aikhenvald, which have inflectional
or clitic evidential markers, but they are instances of evidential systems on
the rise (e.g. Cornillie 2004, Dendale and Tasmowski 2001, Diewald 2004,
Mortelmans 2000, Plungian 2001). The following sentences, which are
partly repeated here once more from Chapter 1.1.1, illustrate several pe-
riphrastic constructions expressing evidential meanings in European lan-
guages:
52 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
(10) a. German
Sie scheint ihren Schirm im Büro gelassen zu haben.
b. Dutch
Ze schijnt haar paraplu in het bureau te hebben gelaten.
c. English
She seems to have left her umbrella in the office.
d. Spanish
Parece haber dejado su paraguas en el despacho.
As already explained (cf. Chapter 1.1.1), the evidential verbal construc-
tions in these examples refer to the fact that the speaker derives his/her
conclusion from some (visual) evidence s/he has for making the claim
(namely ‘She has left her umbrella in the office’). From a semantic point of
view, they fulfil the requirement of having “source marking” as their cen-
tral feature; from a structural point of view, they are secondary predica-
tions, i.e. without testing them in detail on the basis of the grammaticaliza-
tion parameters, we can state here that they are somewhere between full
verbs with infinitive complements and auxiliary verbs (see Chapter 4.2). It
is plausible to assume a relatively advanced degree of a grammaticaliza-
tion, which means that the German constructions treated here show a me-
dium degree of grammaticalization towards evidential markers.
2. Intra-evidential distinctions
While Section 1 is concerned with formal distinctions between linguistic
items of different degrees of grammaticalization, this section discusses the
semantic distinctions and the possible subdivisions of evidentials mean-
ings. We do not intend to give a full report on terminological problems
here (cf. Jacobson 1986), but concentrate on working towards a sound ter-
minological decision for describing the German system.
As mentioned before, the basic semantic requirement for some form to
be classified as evidential, is “source marking”. This is clearly stated by
Aikhenvald:
To be considered as an evidential, a morpheme has to have ‘source of in-
formation’ as its core meaning; that is, the unmarked, or default interpreta-
tion. Evidence for such an interpretation comes from various quarters, not
least native speakers’ intuitions, and the possibility of lexical ‘reinforce-
ment’. (Aikhenvald 2004: 3)
Intra-evidential distinctions 53
Beyond this common core, evidential expressions do not only signify the
fact that the speaker has evidence, but also specify the type of evidence the
speaker makes use of. They answer the question of “how the speaker ob-
tained the information on which s/he bases an assertion” (Willett 1988:
55). From what has been said so far, we may derive the ingredients for a
general description of a linguistically expressed evidential setting:
1. The necessary components of a systematic description of the linguistic
structure of evidential meaning are the speaker, the described event,
the event functioning as evidence and the relation between these three
elements (cf. Jakobson [1957] 1971).
2. Furthermore, the distinction between direct evidence, i.e. evidence based
on direct and personally acquired sensual perception, and indirect
evidence, i.e. evidence, based on “hearsay”, “conclusion” etc., is the
foundation of any further classification.
As already mentioned in Chapter 1 we treat the evidential markers as deic-
tic elements, the structure of which is based on the general deictic process,
which has already been explained in Chapter 1.1.2.9
The evidential relation
is slightly more complicated than simple deictic localizations, because the
speaker sees the primary event through the secondary event, i.e. the evi-
dence can be equalled to a pair of glasses through which the primary event
is perceived. The existence of a pair of glasses is a given fact in any per-
ception and any linguistic description of a scene. However, the defining
crucial feature of evidentials is that this fact, i.e. the existence of a pair of
glasses, and even the specification of what kind of glasses this is, is the
central semantic feature of evidentials. We have to take this into account in
our depiction of the evidential deictic process, which is given in Figure 8.
primary event secondary event functioning as evidence Origo
Figure 8. Evidentials as a deictic category
evidential dimension
54 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
As can be seen in comparison to the other deictic dimensions illustrated in
Chapter 1.1.2, the evidential dimension has the secondary event, which is
logically situated between origo and primary event, as a third point in the
vectored relation. Furthermore, we need a kind of “reflexive” relation
pointing back from the evidence to the origo and investing the origo with
the “pair of glasses” to perceive the primary event.
2.1. Direct and indirect evidentials
Before going into further detail on deictic distinctions, we will take a look
at the basic typological distinctions of types of evidential meanings.
Though the classification of universal evidential values and evidential sys-
tems is by no means a simple task (Plungian 2001), the hierarchically top-
most distinction, which has a wide distribution cross-linguistically and is
acknowledged by most scholars working in the field, is the distinction be-
tween direct and indirect evidence (see e.g. Plungian 2001, Aikhenvald
2004). Most classifications go back to the one proposed by Willett (1988),
which is given in Figure 9 below as a first orientation.
Direct evidentials express the fact that there is/was direct access to the
event described, and this access is mostly of perceptual nature (visual, oth-
er sensory). Indirect evidentials, by contrast, indicate absence of direct
access to the event. The speaker either infers the situation from other in-
formation pieces (traces, results, general knowledge etc.), or s/he reports
about the situation because s/he learnt the information from someone else.
In the first case it is a different situation that provides evidence for the
described event; in the second case it is another speaker who provides evi-
dence for the event described. In both cases the event is not accessible in
the current speech situation, thus indirect. In the following the distinction
between direct evidentials and indirect evidentials will be discussed in detail
where necessary.
The feature of “direct access to the described event” can be equated
with the co-presence of the speaker and the event in the same deictic field,
i.e. a “near” value, which we called “origo-inclusive”, while “indirect
access to the described event” corresponds to a “far” value, i.e. to the “ori-
go-exclusive” stage, which signals that the described event is not co-
present with the speaker (cf. Chapter 1.1.2). From this, the relational struc-
tures for direct evidentials versus indirect evidentials can be derived (see
Figure 10).
Intra-evidential distinctions 55
Figure 9. Types of evidence (Willett 1988: 57)
primary event secondary event functioning
as evidence
speaker’s communicative
location during utterance
co-present with
Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
Figure 10. Direct evidentials
In the case of direct evidentials, all relevant points of the relation are
treated as co-present in the same deictic field: the secondary event, func-
tioning as evidence for the primary event, as well as the primary event are
co-present with the origo, i.e. the marker encodes an origo-inclusive value.
This is different in indirect evidentials, as can be seen in Figure 11. Here,
the primary event is not co-present with the origo (and the secondary
event): the marker expresses an origo-exclusive value.
Types of Source of Information
Indirect
Reported Inference
Secondhand
Thirdhand
Folklore
Results
Reasoning
Visual
Auditory
Other Sensory
Attested
Direct
56 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
primary event secondary event
functioning as
evidence
speaker’s communicative location
during utterance
not co-present
with Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
Figure 11. Indirect evidentials
It should be added here that, in our view, the information source of the
speaker, i.e. the secondary event functioning as evidence, is always co-
present with the (deictic) position of the speaker. This means that it is al-
ways the speaker who possesses evidence for the described event. So, the
information source cannot be separated from the speaker. In the following
section, we are going to describe this fundamental distinction in another,
more formal way.
Let us call the primary event P and the secondary event functioning as
evidence Q. If there is no difference between P and Q, i.e. if P is co-present
with Q, we are dealing with direct evidence. The act of perceiving or per-
forming P (i.e., Q) and P itself are not separated from each other; they are
located in the same deictic field.
If there is a difference between P and Q, i.e. if P is not co-present with
Q, we are dealing with indirect evidence: “The speaker has not perceived P
directly, being separated from P in space or time” (Plungian 2001: 352).
Thus, Q and P are not located in the same deictic field. The basic opposi-
tion between direct and indirect evidence may be thus formulated as fol-
lows:
direct evidence: P = Q indirect evidence: P  Q
Having established these two primary branches, we can go on to establish
subdivisions in the direct as well as in the indirect branch. We start with
distinctions in the direct domain.
In the class of direct evidentials, it is common to draw further distinc-
tions by isolating and encoding linguistically various perception channels,
like the visual, acoustic, auditory channel etc. (Anderson 1986: 274, Wil-
Intra-evidential distinctions 57
lett 1988: 57, Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca 1994: 323-324, Aikhenvald
2004, De Haan 2005). This tradition is also adhered to by Plungian (2001:
353), who divides the branch of direct evidentials as shown in Figure 12.
Direct evidence
Visual Non-visual
Sensoric Endophoric
Figure 12. The classification of direct evidential values (Plungian 2001:353)
According to Plungian (2001: 351) the visual value, i.e. the most direct
one, is realized when “the speaker has observed P directly (which yields a
‘Visual’ value: ≅ ‘P [described situation] in my sight’)” [our emphasis].
The conditions for the non-visual values are described by Plungian as fol-
lows:
The speaker has perceived P directly, but not visually [our emphasis]. Here,
a distinction between two important cases can be drawn: when the observ-
er’s eyes are not used and when they are not needed. In the first case, the
perception of P is actually non-visual, but could in principle be visual. For
example, when somebody is running into the house, we may hear or see it –
depending on how we observe the situation: similarly, a flower may be smelt
or seen, etc. This leaves us with a ‘Sensoric’ value, encompassing all re-
maining human senses and corresponding to a ‘default’ perception. Interes-
tingly, the finer distinctions within the sensoric domain (e.g. those between
hearing and smelling) are rarely (if ever) grammaticalized. Thus, what is
frequently called ‘Auditive’ is in fact the same undifferentiated ‘Sensoric’
value, which takes over whenever sight is ‘switched off’, and which is by no
means restricted to hearing. The second case refers to those situations where
visual (as well as any sensoric) perception is not possible at all, i.e., when
unobservable things are described, such as one’s own intentions, desires, or
other inner states (both mental and physical). This yields an ‘Endophoric’
value, which has specialized markers (at least) in Tibetan languages. (Plun-
gian 2001: 351-352)
In the relational diagram, these distinctions can be represented by modify-
ing the shape and size of the secondary event, and/or by specifying the
arrow pointing from the secondary event to the speaker.
58 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
primary event secondary event functioning as
evidence
speaker’s
communicative
location during
utterance
co-present with
Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
Figure 13. Direct visual evidentials
primary event secondary event functioning as
evidence
speaker’s
communicative
location during
utterance
co-present with
Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
Figure 14. Direct auditory evidentials
As illustrated before in Chapter 1, in German, direct evidentiality is ex-
pressed either by lexical means (e.g. sichtlich, sichtbar ‘visible’) or by
syntactic constructions (e.g. matrix verbs, AcI-constructions, parenthetical
uses). Typical AcI-constructions are given in (11), where the verb trigger-
ing the AcI-construction is a perception verb encoding visual perception in
(11a), acoustic perception in (11b),10
and internal sensory perception in
(11c), which is called “endophoric” by Plungian (2001: 353):
(11) a. Er sah sie über das Schneefeld heraufkommen.
‘He saw her come up the snow field.’
Visual
Auditory
Intra-evidential distinctions 59
b. Er hörte sie über das Schneefeld heraufkommen.
‘He heard her come up the snow field.’
c. Er fühlte Kälte in sich aufsteigen.
‘He felt the cold rising in his body.’
The paraphrases of the channels of direct information are given in (12):11
(12) a. P and Q [Origo sees P]
b. P and Q [Origo hears P]
c. P and Q [Origo feels P]
2.2. Sub-classifying the indirect branch
While there are elaborate systems of direct evidential distinctions in many
languages of the world (Aikhenvald 2004, Wierzbicka 1994), European
languages are said to mostly display expressions of indirect evidentiality,
leaving the direct evidentiality formally unmarked (also see above). This
view is confirmed in the recent survey by De Haan (2005a):
[…] languages with only indirect evidentials are common in Europe. […]
The languages with indirect evidentials in Europe are mostly Germanic
(though not English). Romance languages do not seem to have evidentials,
with the exception of French, probably under influence of Germanic. (De
Haan 2005a: 315)
Examples for indirect evidential marking in European languages are the
“meditative” in Bulgarian and Western Armenian (Lazard 1999: 100),
standard Estonian -vat, which is a hearsay marker (Wiemer [to appear]),
the invariant participle for the present and past (or perfect) tense (-ma, -ta),
which is used in specific constructions as an inferential evidential (Wiemer
[to appear]), the usage of the French conditional to express indirect eviden-
tiality (Squartini 2001), and the use of the German and Dutch modals sol-
len and zou to express reportive evidential values (Diewald 1999a, Mor-
telmans 2009).
Plungian (2001: 351-352) describes the indirect branch as follows: “The
speaker has not perceived P directly, being separated from P in space or
time. However, s/he has had access to other kinds of information about P.”
As it is the indirect branch that is heavily marked in European languag-
es and is expanded in their history, a closer look at possible internal dis-
60 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
tinctions in this branch will be useful. Beyond the first basic distinctions
given above, there are some classificational difficulties:12
The most frequent classifications provide three possibilities: either the
speaker has (directly) observed another situation which s/he interprets as
pointing towards P (captured by an ‘Inferentive’ or more commonly ‘Infe-
rential’ value), or s/he simply knows something which suggests that P is
probable (a ‘Presumptive’ value), or else s/he got the information from other
persons (a ‘Quotative’ value). In the latter case, some additional distinctions
may or may not be applied, such as reported speech (presupposing a known
author) vs. generalized, second-hand information (presupposing an unknown
author or non-definite anonymous author) vs. tradition or common know-
ledge (where no personal author is invoked). (Plungian 2001: 352)
One of the suggestions Plungian offers in terms of an overall classification
is the following, which nicely renders the tripartite distinction of the quote
above:
Direct evidence
Indirect evidence
Reflected evidence
(= inferentials and pre-
sumptives)
Mediated evidence
(= Quotatives)
Personal evidence
Figure 15. Different types of evidentials oppositions (Plungian 2001: 535)
As mentioned before, we choose the distinction between direct and indirect
as the basic criterion of classification. A further sub-classification along
the lines of personal involvement (which by the way does not have a clear
oppositive value in Plungian’s diagram) in our view is not necessary.
Therefore, we will not make use of the term “personal” and the segmenta-
tion achieved by it. This decision rests on the fact that evidential meaning
is deictic, and thus inherently personal: the speaker is always – in one way
or another – personally involved in the information processing. This should
be briefly explained: the co-presence of some direct evidence (e.g. sensory
input, personal involvement in doing something, etc.) with the (deictic
position of the) speaker is fairly obvious. The speaker and his/her percep-
tion or his/her own activity at the time of speaking cannot be separated
from each other: they pertain to one and the same deictic field (see above).
The same holds also for indirect evidence. It is the speaker to whom some
evidence (e.g. visible results, general knowledge, some previously commu-
nicated information, etc.) is available. That means that the information
Intra-evidential distinctions 61
source has always the feature ‘personal’, since it has to be identified with
the speaker.
As this aspect is controversially discussed in literature on evidentials, it
is in place here to render some strands of this discussion. Many authors
working on evidentiality have suggested that evidential values may be clas-
sified in (at least) two different ways (see e.g. Plungian 2001 on ‘personal’
vs. ‘(in)direct’ evidence, Faller 2002 on ‘the personal evidence cline’ vs.
‘the mediated evidence cline’, De Haan 2001 on ‘deictic component’ vs.
‘witnessing component’). These two ways are said to be reflected in two
different evidential ‘systems’ found in the languages of the world.
On the one hand, there are evidential systems which seem to prefer the pa-
rameter of speaker’s involvement and thus have only one opposition of
quotative (‘mediated’) vs. non-quotative (‘personal’) forms (e.g. Lezgian,
Latvian, Quechua). On the other hand, there are systems where the most
prominent opposition is that of direct vs. indirect access, so that quotative
uses are only a pragmatic (or contextual) variety within a larger class of in-
direct evidence markers. Typical representatives of the latter kind are found
among ‘inferential’ (and ‘prefectoid’) Balkan, Caucasian, or Ob-Ugrian sys-
tems. (Plungian 2001: 353)
There are thus two conflicting forces at work in the inferential. By choosing
which of the two features is basic, languages decide whether the deictic
component or the witnessing component is the underlying factor that drives
the evidential system. As we have seen, languages like Kashaya Pomo and
Hualapai highlight the deictic component, represented by means of the fea-
ture direct, [DIR]. They do this by making the inferential responsible for
part of the sensory information, usually the nonvisual, nonauditory ones.
Other languages, such as Takelmy and Sherpa, prefer to view the inferential
as denoting a nonwitnessed event. In these languages, the feature firsthand,
[1ST] underlies the evidential system, with inferentials being [-1ST]. The in-
ferential evidential in such languages typically has a quotative (the quintes-
sential nonwitnessed evidential) interpretation as well. (De Haan 2001: 218)
The two different ways in dividing the conceptual space of evidentiality
may be summarized as follows. On the one hand it is claimed that eviden-
tial values may be distinguished due to the criterion of speaker’s personal
involvement (i.e., the feature [1ST] in the terminology by De Haan; ‘per-
sonal evidence’ in the terminology by Plungian). In this regard, types of
evidence such as performative, visual, auditory, (other) sensory, inference,
reasoning, assumption, etc. are placed within the subgroup of ‘personal
evidence’. Other values such as secondhand, thirdhand, folklore, hearsay,
62 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
etc. pertain to the subgroup of ‘non-personal evidence’. On the other hand,
it is suggested that evidential values may be distinguished due to the crite-
rion of the speaker’s access to the information source. Here, the opposition
‘direct’ vs. ‘indirect’ evidence seems to play a crucial role. Direct evidence
is associated with types of evidence such as firsthand, witnessed, sensory,
etc. Indirect evidence is represented by values such as secondhand, third-
hand, hearsay, inference, reasoning, assumption, etc. In our view, however,
there is no need to distinguish between two separate ways of dividing the
conceptual space of evidentiality. In this respect, our general classification
of evidential distinctions (and of German evidential distinctions in particu-
lar) does not follow two different criteria but uses only one basic classifi-
cation criterion: direct vs. indirect access.
The first sub-branch of indirect evidentiality is inferential evidentiality.
Grammatical elements indicating this type of evidential value are usually
called inferential evidential markers. Other terms, e.g. “inferred” (Aikhen-
vald 2004), “conjecture” (Floyd 1997), “reasoning” (Willett 1988), “as-
sumed” (Aikhenvald 2004) have been proposed so far for this type of evi-
dential value in the typological literature. In the last decades the term
“inferential” has been mostly preferred (e.g. de Haan 2001, 2005, Plungian
2001, Willett 1988).
[…] the evidential category of inference, which is the grammaticalized way
of showing that the speaker makes his or her statement based on a deduction
from facts, and not on a direct observation of the action itself. (de Haan
2001: 1)
[…] two main types of indirect evidence are clearly seen: evidence via
verbal report and evidence upon which an inference is based. (Willett
1988: 57) [original emphases]
The domain of ‘inference’ is subdivided differently in different systems. A
major distinction appears to exist between an inferred evidential covering
inferences made on the basis of visible or tangible results, and an assumed
evidential involving general knowledge and assumption based on reasoning.
(Aikhenvald 2004: 64)
One last terminological note must be made here before we go on with our
classification. The fact that inference may be based on several distinct
sources is caught in Aikhenvald’s distinction between “inferred” and “as-
sumed” which she explains as follows:
Intra-evidential distinctions 63
The difference between the ‘assumed’ evidentials […] and the ‘inferred’
[…] lies in access to visual evidence of something happening and to the de-
gree of ‘reasoning’ involved. The less obvious the evidence and the more
the speaker has to rely on reasoning based on common knowledge or on
common sense, the more chance there is that the assumed evidential will be
used. An inferred evidential refers to something based on obvious evidence
which can be easily observed (even if the event itself was not seen). This il-
lustrates two types of inference – the one based on visible results, and the
other based on reasoning, general knowledge and, ultimately, conjecture.
(Aikhenvald 2004: 2-3)
Instead of the terms “inferred” and “assumed” proposed by Aikhenvald
(2004), we use “perceptual” versus “conceptual” inferential, because these
terms specify better the type of premises the speaker bases her/his infe-
rence on. At this level, we distinguish between inference which is percep-
tually founded, i.e. based on perceptual input, and inference which is con-
ceptually founded, i.e. based on internal reflection (cognition) without
concomitant current perceptual input.
As shown above for the further distinctions within the subcategory of
direct evidentiality, the relationship between P (primary event) and Q (sec-
ondary event) may (but need not)13
be further specified. This also holds for
the indirect branch. The paraphrases below illustrate different possibilities
to specify the indirect relationship between Q and P (cf. Plungian 2001:
354 for a similar classification), which result in different indirect evidential
values (for the mediated branch see below):
perceptual inferential value: P, because Q [Origo can observe some
signs/traces of P]
conceptual inferential value: P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and
Origo knows that Q entails P]
Thus, inferential evidentials primarily denote the speaker’s reflection of
some evidence, i.e. they indicate the relation between the described situa-
tion and some other situation, which is treated by the speaker as evidence
for the former. As in the case of the direct evidentials, the various types of
sources (secondary events) may be illustrated by variation of the arrow, as
in the Figures 16 and 17 below. As will be exposed later, the German infi-
nitive constructions with drohen and versprechen represent perceptual
inferential values, while the construction with werden represents the con-
ceptual inferential value (see Table 5, Chapter 3.5).
64 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
primary event secondary event
functioning as
evidence
speaker’s communicative location
during utterance
not co-present
with Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
Figure 16. Indirect evidentials of the perceptual inferential value
primary event secondary event
functioning as
evidence
speaker’s communicative location
during utterance
not co-present with
Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
conceptual inferential
Figure 17. Indirect evidentials of the conceptual inferential value
The second sub-branch of the indirect evidentiality is the reportive branch.
Though this is not in the focus of this study, we will have to take a look at
it in order to be able to situate the indirect evidentials properly within the
full system. While indirect inferential evidentials indicate that the speaker
has indirect access to the event through his/her own reflections, indirect
reportive evidentials express that the speaker has indirect access based on
someone else’s perceptual and cognitive capacities, i.e. what he has heard
from someone else. This communicative source may be specified in various
ways leading to sub-classes of mediated evidentials, like hearsay (cf. third-
hand), folklore, rumours, report by someone (i.e. second-hand), etc. Linguis-
tic expressions of mediated information can be basically described as hav-
ing the relational structure of indirect evidentiality and can be rendered by
the same type of diagrams.
perceptual inferential
Intra-evidential distinctions 65
primary event secondary event
functioning as evidence
speaker’s communicative location
during utterance
not co-present with
Origo
co-present with Origo Origo
Figure 18. Relational structure of markers of mediated information
In German the modal verb sollen as it is used in (13) and (14) is an in-
stance of mediated evidentials.
(13) Nach Auskunft der Veranstalter soll es derzeit kaum mehr kurzfris-
tige Stornierungen geben als sonst. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘According to the convener there are presently hardly more cancella-
tions at short notice than usually.’
(14) Was ich über 2003er aus der Bourgogne lese, weckt wenig Erwar-
tung. Es soll aber, und das kann man sich gut vorstellen, ein gutes
Jahr für Beaujolais gewesen sein. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘What I have read about the 2003 Bourgogne vintages raise few
expectations. However, they say that it has been a good year for
Beaujolais, and it is easy to imagine that to be the case.’
As the examples show, sollen indicates that the speaker learned about the
described event from someone else. Among the languages having markers
of mediated information in the sense explained are Georgian, Kham, Que-
shua, etc., cf.:
[…] in Italian the conditional is reportive, not inferential: this means that it
conveys “a true mediated knowledge” (Plungian 2001: 253), the source of
information being external to the speaker. The speaker/writer is simply re-
porting the information acquired without any overtones of unreliability.
Admittedly, contexts may be found with epistemic extensions of uncertainty,
since by pragmatic inference less direct or mediated information may be
taken to be less reliable (a similar inference has been grammaticalized in
Balkan systems, see Plungian 2001: 253). (Giacalone Ramat and Topadze
2007: 17)
mediated evidence
66 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
The reported evidential may simply not be used if the source of information
is explicitly stated, as in Kham. […] The reported -sh(i) in Quechua never
indicates who the author is. […] Similarly, in Tsafiki the reported evidential
-ti- indicates that the information comes from someone else’s report but
does not mark quotations. The verb marked with the reported can be a com-
plement to the verb ti ‘say’ indicating who the author is. (Aikhenvald 2004:
177-178)
Beside sollen, also German wollen may be used with a mediated evidential
meaning. However, as this – i.e. the mediated – branch of indirect eviden-
tiality is not treated in this book (nor is the copious literature on reported
speech), these items are not treated here. Furthermore, the exact evidential
status of the relevant sollen and wollen uses with respect to distinctions
like mediated, reportive and quotative is not yet fully clear so that their
treatment would call for an extensive digression. At this point it will be
necessary to discuss the controversial issue of how to draw a relevant dis-
tinction in the area of mediated evidentials, reportive evidentials and
quotatives, as there is a lot of terminological confusion here.
2.3. Distinguishing quotatives from mediated evidentials
As typological research indicates, the notions of “evidentials”, “reportives”
and “quotatives” are difficult to keep apart in a number of languages (e.g.
Sumbatova 1999, Plungian 2001). While some authors subsume quotatives
among evidentials (e.g. Palmer [1986] 2001: 52), there are reasons to dis-
tinguish them from evidentials proper. The following pages will argue the
case for this distinction.
Among the most important sources of evidence and knowledge are lin-
guistic utterances of other speakers and knowledge acquired via some type
of language-driven transfer. At the same time, reference to and re-use of
the communicative acts of others has implications concerning authorship,
identity, possession/ownership of ideas, fictionality etc.14
Thus it does not come as a surprise that in every language there is not
only a gamut of linguistic devices representing those various ways of
“speaking about things other people have said”, but also a gamut of func-
tions these indications are applied to. The former, the linguistic devices,
range from direct quotes via reported speech marking to subtle traces of
intertextual connections (e.g. using an expression which is known to be
used only by a particular (group of) speaker(s)). The latter, the functions of
“speaking about things other people have said”, range from register driven
Intra-evidential distinctions 67
issues like journalistic work (reporting important news), scientific aims
(connecting knowledge and demonstrating one’s membership in the scien-
tific community) or fictional writing (writing a novel, designing dialogues
for a foreign language course), to more fundamental communicative issues
like gaining authority or declining responsibility etc.
These issues cross-cut several areas of linguistic meaning and structure
– in particular those of evidentiality and modality but also issues of dis-
course structure (like dialogic elements, polyphony etc.). Therefore, in a
book on evidentials like this one, it is essential to circumscribe the area
under investigation, to define one’s categories and to make some termino-
logical decisions. A brief survey of the terminological options offered in
the literature on evidentiality and modality shows that this latter point,
terminological clarification, is not a trivial one.
Among the terms frequently found in literature are the following:
− quotatives and quotative markers (De Haan 2001)
− reportives, reportatives, and reported evidentials (Aikhenvald 2004,
Willett 1988, Faller 2002)
− reported speech representation and reported speech markers (Mushin
2001)
− mediatifs/mediatives (Lazard 2001, Guentcheva 1996)
− (general) hearsay (evidentials) (Anderson 1986, Willett 1988)
− second-hand evidentials/third-hand evidentials (Willett 1988, Aikhenvald
2004)
Most authors suggest some type of internal classification between second-
ary information with reference to a quoted source and secondary informa-
tion without such reference to a source. So, Aikhenvald (2004) proposes to
draw a distinction between ‘quotatives’ and ‘hearsay’ evidentials. Both
indicate that information was acquired from what someone else said. The
difference between them is, however, that the former do make overt refer-
ence to the source (i.e. to the quoted speaker) while the latter do not:
HEARSAY: for reported information with no reference to those it was re-
ported by.
QUOTATIVE: for reported information with an overt reference to the quoted
source. (Aikhenvald 2004: 64)
Moreover, a clear boundary has usually been drawn between reportive
evidentials and other linguistic expressions of reported speech (which may
include evidential expressions as well). This distinction is mostly based on
68 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
functional considerations, i.e. whether an expression pertains to the class
of (grammatical) evidentials or not.
Reported evidentials and reported speech do essentially the same job: they
indicate that the information was acquired from someone else. (Aikhenvald
2004: 135)
[…] reported speech and reported evidentials complement each other. One
may be used instead of the other to avoid unwanted epistemic or other over-
tones. Reported speech may allow the speaker to be precise about who told
what. Both reported speech and reported evidentials may be employed as
stylistic devices in discourse. (Aikhenvald 2004: 140)
In a similar manner, this distinction is described by Mushin (2001):
[…] b. reported speech representation typically involves the explicit men-
tion of the reported speaker while use of the reportive clitic simply reports
the information as the product of some prior utterance unconnected to any
purported original speaker;
c. reported speech representation typically involves some shift in deictic
coding to the time, place and identity of the reported speech act (and re-
ported speaker) while use of a reportive clitic does not motivate any shift in
the deictic centre. (Mushin 2001: 71)
If we look at the two oppositions (i.e. reportives vs. quotatives and reported
evidentials vs. marking of reported speech) introduced above, a common
point will not remain unnoticed. In both cases, the fact whether the source
may or may not be explicitly mentioned serves as a main distinctive fea-
ture. Taking this into account we suggest that we are dealing here not with
two separate oppositions, but with one and the same crucial difference. In
the remainder of this section we will argue for this view.
Given the broad variety of linguistic phenomena and procedures refer-
ring to what other speakers said, we refrain from discussing whether these
elements as a whole should be classified as evidentials, epistemic expres-
sions or something else. It is very likely that this domain does not fit into
one grammatical category and that we find markers and distinctions having
to do with the speech of others distributed among several categories.
Instead we would like to set up some essential notional distinctions,
which allow us to decide which linguistic categories are relevant for the
phenomena found in German, and how this fits into our system of eviden-
tiality and epistemic modality.
The first and most important distinction we would like to make is the
one between the following two groups: On the one hand, there are linguis-
Intra-evidential distinctions 69
tic devices used for shifting the deictic origo from the present speaker to a
secondary speaker. As will be explained later, this does not necessarily
have to do with evidentiality; it is rather a sort of communicative role play.
In the following, this linguistic category will be called Quotative, the con-
tent of the category will be called quotative meaning, and various linguistic
expressions of this content will be called ‘expressions’, ‘strategies’, or
‘markers’, depending on the grammatical status of linguistic items in ques-
tion (see Chapter 2.1 for the similar terminological distinctions proposed
for the domain of evidentiality). Quotative expressions embrace all types of
the reported speech marking, including direct and indirect citations, the use
of embedding speech act predicates, etc.
On the other hand, there are linguistic devices used to mark one’s
source of evidence (which consists of some communicated content) with
no obligatory shift to a secondary speaker. This may be done in a variety of
ways and with a variety of specifications, including hearsay, folklore, me-
diated communication, reported speech representations etc. All these
meanings and functions fall into the domain of (indirect) evidentiality. As a
category name we chose mediated information here.
Before we go on to a closer inspection of both groups, we would like to
give an overview of our (not merely) terminological decisions. Let any
other member of the linguistic community beside the actual speaker be
called “alter-ego” and let any type of linguistic condensation of a commu-
nicative act be called “linguistic utterance”; the whole domain may be su-
perscribed as “linguistic utterance of alter-ego” and we get the following
divisions:
linguistic utterance of alter-ego
origo shift no origo-shift
= quotative = mediated information
(non evidential) (evidential)
Figure 19. Quotatives and mediated information
The right branch, called “mediated information”, belongs among evidential
distinctions, the evidential source being a linguistically construed one. The
left branch, called “quotative” here, does not belong among evidential dis-
tinctions (though quotative expressions may often serve as diachronic
70 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
sources for evidentials). A word of caution: terms like “reported speech”
are too general to give a clear indication as to what type of marker and
what type of linguistic procedure is addressed. Therefore we will use this
and similar terms only in a non-technical way and do not imply any further
specifications by it.
The category of Quotative, as we have briefly defined it above, con-
cerns the representation of a linguistic utterance of alter ego, whereby the
origo is shifted from the actual speaker to a secondary speaker. That is,
quotative expressions constitute a special communicative strategy, whereby
some other communicative event is embedded into the actual one. By using
a quotative expression, the speaker brings some previous speech situation
into play. The actual communicative scene, i.e. the here-and-now of the
actual speech situation, no longer serves as the only vantage point. Instead,
the reported information is anchored in the here-and-now position of the
embedded communicative event, which is distinct from the actual one, i.e.
the reported information is anchored in a shifted origo.
In this view, the category of Quotative is a matter of what Bühler called
“imagination-oriented deixis”. It is a form of deictic displacement (“Ver-
setzungsdeixis”, Sennholz 1985: 224). It differs from deixis proper be-
cause, rather than using the actual deictic field as context, it uses an im-
agined deictic field instead. The relational structure is displaced from the
actual speaker to another imagined origo (Rauh 1978: 101). An example is
given in (15):
(15) We spent our Easter vacation in Italy. Here the sun shone all day
and we went for long walks across the hills.
The origo of here obviously is not identical with the present here-and-now
position of the speaker. Instead, it is displaced to the location the speaker is
talking about, i.e. Italy mentioned in the preceding sentence.
Imagination-oriented deixis is not restricted to the spatial domain only.
It operates in other domains as well, such as temporal, personal, modal,
textual, situational etc. The most important areas of deictic displacement
are however the different forms of reported speech, in which the category
of evidentiality, mood and the modals are highly relevant.
In our view Quotative constitutes a communicative strategy which ma-
nifests itself in various linguistic techniques. That means that Quotative is
a sub-group of the type of displaced deixis. It does not belong to the cate-
gory of evidentiality (nor to those of epistemic modality, tense, mood, per-
Intra-evidential distinctions 71
son, etc.). It is the indication of a shift to an embedded communicative
scene. More particularly, Quotative is the indication of a quote (citation) of
another speaker. This communicative strategy may appear in languages in a
variety of ways ranging from simple to highly artificial: A simple way to
shift to another speaker is to use a direct quote. The purported exact words
of the “linguistic utterance of alter-ego” are represented directly, without
any modifications. This results in a complete shift of deixis and deictic
markers to the deictic coordinates of the secondary origo.
(16) Yesterday, Mary said: “I am going to visit my mother this after-
noon”.
A more complicated way to shift to another communicative scene is to use
an indirect quote. In this case, only the gist of the reported “linguistic ut-
terance of alter-ego” is normally introduced. Indirect quote (or: indirect
speech) result in a more complex system of shift of deictic pointer, depen-
dent on meaning but also on intra-linguistic rules and conventions. So, first
person is always shifted and occurs as a third person in the reported utter-
ance. As for the dependence on linguistic peculiarities, consecutio tempo-
rum in English indirect speech provides an excellent example.
(17) Yesterday, Mary said (that) she was going to visit her mother that
afternoon.
The most complex way to displace the communicative scene is represented
by literary techniques such as “stream of consciousness”, or “erlebte
Rede”. A mixture of different processes for shifting the perspective is cha-
racteristic for such modes of displacement. Often, even both techniques
described above, i.e. source marking (i.e. evidentiality) and origo shifting
(i.e. Quotative), are mixed in such operations.
The wide array of ways to shift the actual origo, or to linguistically code
quotative meanings, obviously, goes far beyond the range of evidentials.
Among other things, this coding technique often makes use of expressions
of many grammatical categories, including mood, tense, person, etc. There-
fore, the strategy of origo displacement is not restricted to a particular
grammatical category or to a particular functional domain. Instead, it
serves to fulfil an important communicative function, which can be gener-
ally described as “referring to things other people have said”. From this, it
is not surprising that there is a large area of overlap between reported
speech marking and epistemic modality as well as evidentiality. The close
72 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
interconnection of the quotative category with epistemic modality is e.g.
reflected by the fact that in German the subjunctive mood figures as a
quotative marker.
However, as we already pointed out above, we hold the opinion that
origo shift concerns a different level of linguistic structure than the level of
factuality judgments, i.e. the level of epistemic modality. Origo shift opens
up a new communicative scene with its own origo and its own factuality
judgments. By a pure marker of origo shift, the actual speaker asserts the
fact that the communicative scene is shifted. S/he does not judge the fac-
tuality of the embedded quotes. Indeed, the interpretation of the proposi-
tion as ‘uncertain’ or ‘unreliable’ often accompanies the shifting of the
communicative scene. However, such interpretations always have the sta-
tus of conversational implicatures and cannot be considered an inherent
meaning component of quotatives (at least in German).
The adoption of a reportive epistemological stance can have the rhetorical
effect of making the speaker seem less responsible for the information. In
English, the function of reportive coding has been described ‘distancing’ or
‘detaching’ the actual speaker from the information described as reportive.
[…] Although the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance necessarily
codes information as at least one step removed from the speaker’s direct ex-
perience, it does not necessarily code the information as unreliable or uncer-
tain. The extent to which information expressed from a reportive epistemo-
logical stance can be considered reliable lies in the identity of the source and
not in its reportiveness per se. (Mushin 2001: 73)
Among the languages having quotatives in the sense explained is Georgian,
which according to Giacalone Ramat and Topadze (2007) uses quotative
particles to express what the authors (rather mistakenly) call “reportive
evidentials”. In our view, the Georgian particle -o is a prototypical example
of a quotative marker rather than of a (reportive) evidential marker.
Quotative particles as reportive markers are frequently used in oral speech.
They occur especially in dialogues of various narrative genres (folk tales,
stories, etc.) to report the speaker’s words exactly. (Giacalone Ramat and
Topadze 2007: 16-17)
Other languages having quotative markers in the above described sense are
e.g. Comanche (Uto-Aztecan), Dakota (Siouan), Chemehuevi (Uto-
Aztecan):
The quotative particle me [in Comanche; GD & ES] occurs when there is a
direct quotation, as in 2.65.
2.65. hãã me-se suti=
patsi
Summary: classification of evidential distinctions used here 73
yes QUOT-CNTR that.one older sister
‘The older sister said, “yes”’
[…] ‘Reported’ and ‘quotative’ are distinguished in Dakota […]. The par-
ticle Ğk`a` indicates ‘statements known by hearsay’ and ‘when the statement
or thought of a definite person is quoted, the quotation may end with lo (le),
ye, cè (or k`ǐ). (Aikhenvald 2004: 50-51)
To summarize: quotative expressions shift the origo to a secondary speaker
and quote, i.e. cite what that secondary speaker has said, often together
with the factuality judgment of the secondary speaker. Thus, quotative
expressions, as we define them here, are neither evidential nor epistemic
modal – they constitute a category of their own.
3. Summary: classification of evidential distinctions used here
On the basis of typological research and earlier studies on the German
system referred to above, we suggest as a hypothesis the following para-
digm of German evidential distinctions. This overall classification of evi-
dential values will guide us through the investigation of the German data in
the next chapters; it will be refined and adapted as necessary when further
aspects need to be accommodated.
74 Evidentiality – definitions and limitations
evidential
values
Level
I
deictic
value
description
direct
‘origo-inclusive’
P
is
co-present
with
Q
indirect
‘origo-exclusive’
P
is
non
co-present
with
Q
Level
II
paraphrase
visual,
auditory,
etc.
P
and
Q
[Origo
can
see/hear
etc.
P]
Example
(visual)
Sie
hört
ihn
die
Treppe
heraufkommen.
‘She
hears
him
come
up
the
staircase.’
inferential
P,
because
Q
[Origo
has
information
pointing
towards
P]
Example:
In
Hannover
wird
es
regnen.
‘It
will
be
raining
in
Hannover.’
mediated
information
P,
because
Q
[Origo
was
told
that
P]
Example:
Er
soll
abgereist
sein.
‘He
is
said
to
have
left.’
Level
III
paraphrase
perceptual
P,
because
Q
[Origo
can
observe
some
signs/
traces
of
P]
see
Table
5,
Chapt.
3.5
conceptual
P,
because
Q
[Origo
knows
Q,
and
Origo
knows
that
Q
entails
P]
see
Table
5,
Chapt.
3.5
Figure
20.
Overview
of
general
classification
of
evidential
values
Chapter 3
Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
Evidentiality and epistemic modality are closely related concepts and do-
mains, so it is of particular importance to clearly draw the lines between
them, to define their distinctive features, to delineate their respective bor-
ders, to explore their common denominator, and to indicate the areas of
potential overlap as well as the reasons for this. These tasks are dealt with
on the following pages, and the focus lies in a particularly important and
difficult area: the dividing line and the area of overlap between epistemic
modality and evidentiality.
The problem of distinguishing between evidentiality and modality has
two aspects which have to be kept in mind. One is the theoretical, notional
aspect, i.e. the question whether and how we should in principle distin-
guish between the two concepts independent of their linguistic realization.
The other is the empirical fact that the two concepts may overlap and be
conflated in their linguistic realization in a number of languages in differ-
ent ways. From this observation arises the question of how to relate lan-
guage specific overlap to universal distinctions, or, formulated differently,
if a language fuses both notional domains, how should we treat this?
It should be noted that these questions cannot be reduced to terminolog-
ical decisions. Reverting to a broad notion of epistemic evidentiality and
postulating evidentiality as a sub-category (cf. Palmer 1986, Leiss 2000,
Diewald 2004) hides the problem rather than solving it, as does of course
the converse procedure, i.e. defining evidentiality in a broad way and dec-
laring epistemic modality as a subcategory thereof (Mushin 2001). We
clearly favour a succinct definition of both domains as a basis for elucidat-
ing potential similarities, overlaps and neutralisations. To justify this, let us
compare the situation with the one of the domains of temporality and as-
pectuality. The discrimination and regions of overlap of these two catego-
ries has received much more attention, as both are highly prominent cate-
gories in European languages. While at the beginning of modern linguistics
aspectual distinctions were often treated as temporal ones, it can be stated
that, meanwhile, linguists agree that both categories are in principle inde-
pendent of each other but have systematic areas of overlap, and also a rela-
tive chronological ordering, whereby tense distinctions develop from as-
76 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
pectual distinctions (e.g. PAST from PERFECT cf. e.g. Bybee, Perkins and
Pagliuca 1994, Heine and Kuteva 2002).
We suggest treating the categories of evidentiality and epistemic modal-
ity in an analogous way. We argue that both categories are in principle
independent of each other, though closely related. We put down their simi-
larity to a common abstract relational template, which, too, accounts for
their functions as deictics. Variations in the “filling” of the positions of the
template account for semantic and functional differences of the forms and
categories in question, whereby the specification of the source features of a
relational structure play a decisive part. Only after drawing the categorical
distinction between evidentiality and epistemic modality, it is possible to
describe neatly the areas of overlap and the reasons for this. As the issue of
the categorical distinction between evidentiality and epistemic modality
touches the nerve of this study, it deserves an extended explication, which,
however, will focus mainly on German.
In order to show how the categorical difference as well as the overlap in
specific forms are manifested in the German system, our line of argument
touches the following issues which will be treated in the order given.
The most important factor for a distinction of both areas is the differing
specification of the concept of source (see Section 2). The distinctions in
the make-up of the source features can be explicated by diachronic facts,
which, in addition to that, provide further insight into the fundamental dif-
ference of both categories (see Section 3). Additional arguments can be
derived from typological issues, and from the behaviour of the items with
respect to scope, negation and embedding (see Section 4). Finally, a study
of the areas of overlap between evidentiality and epistemic modality will
help to weigh the arguments in favour of a separation of both categories
(see Section 5).
Before discussing these issues, the next section is devoted to a brief re-
view of existing opinions and models on the connection between eviden-
tiality and epistemic modality.
1. Prior suggestions on the relation between evidentials and modality
The fact that both categories are closely intertwined in many languages
may be the major reason for many linguists conflating both notions into
one category. In most of these approaches evidentiality is treated as a sub-
category of epistemic modality, e.g. in Gunkel (2000: 111), Palander-
Collin (1999: 27-28), Traugott (1997), Sumbatova (1999: 74) who defines
Prior suggestions on the relation between evidentials and modality 77
evidentials as follows (with respect to the South-Caucasian language
Svan): “Evidentials presuppose that the speaker does not possess direct
knowledge of the situation”. This definition foregrounds a feature which,
in our view, is essential for epistemic modality and not evidentiality. Die-
wald (2004), too, subsumes evidentials in German under epistemic
modality:
Modalität wird im Deutschen u.a. durch Infinitivkonstruktionen zum Aus-
druck gebracht. An erster Stelle sind hier die klassischen Modalverben, also
die sechs Verben dürfen, können, mögen, müssen, sollen und wollen zu nen-
nen, dann aber auch die Verben scheinen, drohen und versprechen, […].
[‘In German, modality is expressed by infinitive constructions among other
means. Here, the classic modal verbs, i.e. the six verbs dürfen, können,
mögen, müssen, sollen and wollen have to be mentioned frist, with the verbs
scheinen, drohen and versprechen following after them’]. (Diewald 2004:
230)
Evidentiality in this paper is regarded as an additional semantic feature
further differentiating the system of epistemic distinctions.
Da nun die Faktizitätsbewertung die gemeinsame Eigenschaft aller Modal-
und Modalitätsverben und das distinktive Merkmal der Moduskategorie ist,
eignet sich die nur bei einigen Faktizitätsmarkern auftretende evidentielle
Komponente zu einer weiteren semantischen Subklassifikation dieses Para-
digmas. [‘As the common feature of all modal and modality verbs and the
distinctive feature of the mood category is the feature of factuality judge-
ment, the evidential component, the appearance of which is restricted to
some factuality markers only, is suitable as a means of further subclassifying
he paradigms in semantic terms.’] (Diewald 2004: 238)
This results in the scheme given in Table 1 that unites epistemic modal
periphrasis and evidential periphrases with scheinen, drohen, versprechen
under the categorial function of expressing uncertain factuality.
This scheme postulates the deictic nature of epistemic modals and ver-
bal mood, i.e. the deictic anchoring of the grammaticalized factuality
judgment expressed by verbal moods and grammaticalized epistemic mod-
als (cf. Diewald 1999, 2001). Furthermore, it suggests that the three inflec-
tional verbal moods of German and the periphrastic modal constructions
(i.e. the grammaticalized uses of the modals) form a highly differentiated
deictic grammatical category in PDG, which also contains the evidentials
as a sub-group. As this topic has been already touched upon, a very brief
description of the structure of the category will suffice.
78 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
Table 1. Semantic distinctions of modal verbs and the so-called “Modalitätsverben”
(Diewald 2004: 253)
uncertain factuality
-evidentiality +evidentiality
modal verbs modality verbs
deictic quotative phoric -ingressive +ingressive
-desired +desired
können
müssen
sollen
wollen
dürfte
mag
scheinen drohen versprechen
As is well-known, the distinctive semantic core of epistemic modality is a
speaker-based, i.e. deictic, factuality judgment (“subjective” epistemicity
in the tradition of Lyons 1977, Diewald 1999). An epistemic marker of this
type ascribes a factuality value to the proposition, whereby the speaker is
the source of this evaluation process, the proposition is the goal. The spe-
cific semantic value of this judgment, i.e. the degree of factuality ascribed
to the proposition, is measured against the speaker’s own epistemic status.
The basic opposition is, as expected, the one between the origo-inclusive,
unmarked value and the origo-exclusive, marked values. The former is
represented by the indicative; all other forms belonging into the paradigm
(the subjunctive I, the subjunctive II, and the deictic modals), express origo-
exclusive, marked values.1
This basic distinction between origo-inclusive and
origo-exclusive factuality judgments is rendered in the well-known relational
diagram below:
described entity:
proposition
co-present with Origo
‘origo-inclusive’
Origo
Figure 1. Relational structure of origo-inclusive modal value
modal dimension
Prior suggestions on the relation between evidentials and modality 79
described entity:
proposition
not co-present with
Origo
‘origo-exclusive’
Origo
Figure 2. Relational structure of origo-exclusive modal values
Illustrations for each distinction are given below in this order: indicative,
subjuncive I, subjunctive II, purely deictic modals, deictic modals with
phoric component, and deictic modals with quotative/mediated component:
(1) Die Gießkanne steht im Garten.
‘The water can is in the garden.’
[indicative: origo-inclusive factuality judgment]
(2) Die Gießkanne stehe im Garten.
‘The water can is said to be in the garden.’
[subjunctive I: origo-exclusive factuality judgment]
(3) Die Gießkanne stünde im Garten/würde ... stehen.
‘The water can would be in the garden.’
[subjuncitve II: origo-exclusive factuality judgment]
(4) Die Gießkanne muss/müsste/kann/könnte/dürfte/mag/soll im Gar-
ten stehen.
‘The water can must/might/should/may/is said to be in the garden.’
[epistemic uses of modal verbs: origo-exclusive factuality judg-
ment]
As concerns the place of the evidentials in the paradigmatic organization,
the scheme suggested in Diewald (2004), and given above in Table 1, in-
corporates the evidentials as a sub-group of the overarching category of
factuality marking, where the epistemic modals, too, form a sub-group.
This scheme, which we are going to revise in the course of this section,
reflects the fact that evidentials in German as in most IE languages do have
epistemic overtones, i.e. factuality and evidentiality overlap in these lan-
guages (cf. also Willett 1988: 51, 66 and Bybee 1985: 192). In this connec-
modal dimension
80 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
tion, De Haan (1999, 2001) holds the opinion that most Germanic eviden-
tials have their origins in epistemic modality.
Evidentials from modals is mainly a Western European feature. It occurs in
most Germanic languages, as well as in Finnish. In these languages eviden-
tiality is another interpretation of modal verbs. (De Haan 2005a: 320)
This being the case, we nevertheless opt for a clear distinction. As we will
argue in the course of this chapter, these overlaps are the results of conver-
sational implicatures and not inherent semantic components of these verbs.
Therefore, the above scheme of Diewald (2004) merely serves as a first
approach which will be modified in the following in order to clearly show
the categorical difference between the two domains and from there to be
able to explain their overlap.
While many researchers working with IE languages – due to the empiri-
cal data in those languages – state that evidentiality usually is concomitant
with epistemic overtones, typologists working with non-IE languages from
the beginning of research in evidentials have warned against bluntly sub-
suming both domains under one broad heading without distinguishing be-
tween these concepts on a notional level. These linguists usually plead for
clear distinctions; e.g. Anderson (1986) (see Chapter 1) and Willett (1988),
who defines the distinctive feature of evidentials as opposed to true epis-
temics by the answer to the question “how the speaker obtained the infor-
mation on which s/he bases an assertion” (Willett 1988: 55). With the
growing body of data from languages with distinctly evidential categories
without modal overtones, more and more researchers have pleaded to draw
a sharp line between evidentiality and epistemic modality (Wierzbicka
1994, De Haan 1999, van der Auwera and Plungian 1998, Aikhenvald
2003, 2004, Giacalone Ramat and Topadze 2007, cf. also Diewald and
Smirnova [to appear]). Some quotes illustrate the span of argumentation
used here:
[…], evidentiality, deals with the evidence the speaker has for his or her
statement, while the other, epistemic modality, evaluates the speaker's
statement and assigns it a commitment value. This evaluation is obviously
done on the basis of evidence (which might or might not be expressed overt-
ly, or which might or might not be expressed by means of evidentials), but
there is nothing inherent in evidentials that would compel us to assign an a
priori epistemic commitment to the evidence. (De Haan 1999: 98-99) [our
emphasis]
The common deictic nature and the different realizations of source concepts 81
The evidentials, however, signal only the way the speaker arrived at know-
ledge about the event. (Bybee 1985: 182)
Evidential markers may indicate a speaker’s attitude towards the validity of
certain information but do not have so. This is why evidentiality should not
be considered as part of the ‘linguistic coding of epistemology’.
(Aikhenvald 2003: 13)
2. The common deictic nature and the different realizations of source
concepts
The deictic anchoring of the modal and evidential dimensions has been
discussed in several places in this book. In this section we argue that the
deictic nature of both categories and the notion of “source” (which is inse-
parable from the notion of deixis) are responsible for the parallel structur-
ing as well as the notional distinctness. Epistemic modality concerns the
factuality judgment of the proposition in relation to the situation of the
“epistemic” origo. Evidentials concern the indication of a specific source
used by the speaker (origo) to make the statement.
The central distinctive feature between evidentials and epistemics lies
in the existence of a secondary event (the evidential source) in the former.
As we have seen in previous chapters, this is what is meant by stating that
evidential markers indicated that the speaker has proof, hints, evidence for
his statement, and it is directly expressed in the definitions for evidentiality
rendered in Chapter 1 (see also Bybee 1985: 184, Anderson 1986: 273,
Aikhenvald 2003: 1). Thus, a parenthesis like wie ich höre in (5) has a
purely evidential meaning, which contrasts with the meaning of an epis-
temic periphrastic evaluation like (6):
(5) Sie ist – wie ich höre – in München.2
‘She is – as I am told – in Munich.’
(6) Sie ist – wie ich vermute – in München.
‘She is – as I assume – in Munich.’
The parenthesis wie ich höre in (5) denotes the existence of acoustic evi-
dence, more exactly, evidence in the form of “hearsay”, which induces the
speaker to utter the statement Sie ist in München ‘She is in Munich’. An
epistemic judgment concerning the degree of factuality of this proposition
82 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
(i.e. Sie ist in München ‘She is in Munich’) is not expressed in the paren-
thesis in (5) as opposed to the one in (6). In (5), the speaker does not
attribute any amount of uncertain factuality to this statement; s/he just in-
dicates the source of the knowledge on which it rests. The same can be said
of other evidential constructions in German, like scheinen in the following
example, which is paraphrased by an adverbial as well as by our forma-
lized paraphrase:
(7) Sie scheint beim Friseur gewesen zu sein.
‘She seems to have been at the hairdresser’s.’
Offensichtlich war sie beim Friseur.
Obviously P
P, because Q [Origo can observe some traces of P]
If we imagine the utterance of this sentence in a situation, where the speak-
er sees the person spoken of crossing the street after the lunch break with a
much shorter haircut as compared to the one she had in the morning when
they both met in the office, it becomes quite clear that what the speaker
wants to express by the scheinen-construction is the fact that s/he has (vis-
ual) evidence for the statement Sie ist beim Friseur gewesen. The attribu-
tion of an uncertain epistemic value is not part of the inherent meaning of
this statement.
The use of a modal verb instead of an evidential produces a different
meaning, as can be tested by inserting muss or kann instead of scheinen in
(8) and (9). The respective factuality value of each modal verb can be made
explicit by paraphrases containing a sentence adverbial that conveys the
meaning of the modal, or a superordinate clause:
(8) Sie muss beim Friseur gewesen sein.
‘She must have been at the hairdresser’s.’
Ich halte es für wahrscheinlich, dass P.
‘I regard it as probable that P.’
Bestimmt P
‘certainly P’
(9) Sie kann beim Friseur gewesen sein.
‘She may have been at the hairdresser’s.’
Ich halte es für möglich, dass P.
‘I regard it as possible that P.’
The common deictic nature and the different realizations of source concepts 83
Vielleicht P
‘perhaps P’
Important in the context of contrasting the epistemic modals with eviden-
tials is the fact that in these cases the focus is not on evidence for the prop-
osition but on the fact that the speaker is not entirely sure whether the
statement is true or not, i.e. these sentences represent an uncertain factuali-
ty judgment of the speaker.
That is: the deictic value in the modal dimension is the degree of fac-
tuality of the proposition as it is judged by the speaker. The point of refer-
ence for the degree of factuality of the proposition is the degree of factuali-
ty that the speaker attributes to himself/herself. As the speaker regards
his/her existence, his/her state of being at the moment of utterance as fac-
tual, this state represents the near value: a narrated event that is judged by
the speaker to be on the same level of existence receives the value [fac-
tual], while any narrated event that is not judged that way receives a re-
mote value (cf. Rauh 1984: 52).
A remote factuality value can be encoded by a range of lexico-syntactic
expressions (like an epistemic parenthesis as wie ich vermute ‘as I sup-
pose’) and by grammatical markers of epistemic modality. In German,
these are the verbal moods (the indicative, subjunctive I and subjunctive II
including the würde-construction) and the epistemically used modal verbs.
The six relevant modals of German are dürfen ‘to be allowed to’, können
‘can, to be able to’, mögen ‘to like, may’, müssen ‘must, to have to’, sollen
‘shall, to be to’ and wollen ‘to want’.3
The paraphrases in (8) and (9) spell out the different degrees of doubt or
certainty the speaker has concerning the factuality of the proposition.4
Stat-
ing that one regards something as probable, likely, possible and so on,
amounts to stating that one – in fact – does not know, and therefore does
not commit oneself to the truth of the proposition. The modals in this use
signal that the speaker cannot attach a definite value of factuality to the
proposition (Lyons 1977: 800). From the speaker’s perspective the proposi-
tion cannot be assessed as factual or nonfactual: it may be either.
Thus, the meaning of the grammaticalized modals is that the speaker
has tried to evaluate the factuality of the proposition but has not reached a
definite conclusion: the speaker cannot (or does not want to) determine the
“location” of the proposition in the deictic modal space.
This indetermination of the speaker concerning the factuality of the
proposition, which is the result of an evaluation procedure, is the distinc-
84 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
tive value of the epistemic modals. It is noted here as [factual/nonfactual]
or [+/-factual], i.e. ‘no definite value attritubted’.
These modals form a paradigm expressing fine-grained distinctions,
which have been explored in Diewald (1999, 2001) and will be briefly
touched upon later as far as they constitute a necessary background for the
system of evidential distinctions.
Epistemic modals imply a “modal” source, which indeed is one of the
defining features of all modal concepts and every possible usage of modal
verbs (Bech 1949, 1951, Diewald 1999, see next section). In the epistemic
usages, this source is located in the speaker: it lies in the deictic origo. It is
not a fact or phenomenon of the outside world, which is perceived and
used by the speaker as evidence. The modal source in epistemic modal
judgments is nothing but the speakers own judgment, which of course, may
not be unconditioned; but these potential motivating conditions remain
unexpressed by the modal marker itself (they may be expressed in the sur-
rounding text, of course).5
That is, while the evidential source is an information-based source, the
modal source is a judgment-based source. We mark this difference in
source features by distinguishing a modal source from an evidential source
(i.e. information source).
The following test sentences once more illustrate in some detail that in
pure epistemics (here expressed by müssen) any type of evidential source
may be explicated in the textual surroundings, thus justifying the speaker-
based factuality judgment, which, however, in itself does not contain any
hint of an evidential source.
(10) Sie muss ihre Doktorarbeit abgegeben haben.
‚She must have handed in her doctoral thesis.’
(11) Ich habe sie gestern auf der Party gesehen. Sie muss ihre
Doktorarbeit abgegeben haben.
‘I saw her at the party yesterday. She must have handed in her doc-
toral thesis.’
(12) [Situational setting: The speaker is attending a party and talking to
the hearer. Both are able to see the person talked about]
> Sie muss ihre Doktorarbeit abgegeben haben.
‘She must have handed in her doctoral thesis.’
The mirror images are given in the following examples with a pure eviden-
tial (here exemplified by scheinen). In principle, evidentials do not contain
The common deictic nature and the different realizations of source concepts 85
any information on a judgment concerning the degree of factuality allotted
by the speaker. But, of course, this information may be added in the sur-
rounding text or situation.
(13) Sie scheint ihre Doktorarbeit abgegeben zu haben.
‘She seems to have handed in her doctoral thesis.’
(14) Sie scheint ihre Doktorarbeit abgegeben zu haben. Ich bin
(ziemlich/fast/sehr) sicher, dass sie das noch rechtzeitig geschafft
hat.
‘She seems to have handed in her doctoral thesis. I am
(rather/almost/dead) sure she’s made it in time.’
(15) A: Sie scheint ihre Doktorarbeit abgegeben zu haben.
A: ‘She seems to have handed in her doctoral thesis.’
B: Dann hat sie es also noch rechtzeitig geschafft?
B: ‘She’s made it in time, you mean?’
A: Naja, ich weiß es nicht genau, aber ich habe sie gestern auf der
Party gesehen.
A: ‘Well, I am not sure, but I saw her at the party yesterday.’
In these cases the proposition “sie hat ihre Doktorarbeit abgegeben” is
inferred by the speaker on the basis of source information. This reference
to source information is encoded by the evidential scheinen, which, how-
ever, does not make any factuality judgment in itself. The proposition can
be combined with epistemic judgment of different strength, i.e. evidentials
are neutral to a factuality value in the same way that epistemics are neutral
to source information. That is, evidentials do not inherently imply a partic-
ular factuality judgment and, on the other hand, epistemics do not inherent-
ly imply reference to a particular information source.
This may be further elucidated by the following simplified test sen-
tences with scheinen and their paraphrases. They show that evidentials
agree with any factuality value, any degree of “certainty”, which thus can-
not be part of the semantic component of the evidential itself.
(16) Sie scheint ihre Arbeit abgegeben zu haben.
‘She seems to have handed in her doctoral thesis.’
Ich vermute das, (weil ich sie gestern auf der Party gesehen habe.)
‘I assume that (because I saw her at the party yesterday).’
Ich bin mir (dessen sehr) sicher, (weil ich sie gestern auf der Party
gesehen habe.)
86 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
‘I am (dead) sure (because I saw her at the party yesterday).’
Ich bin davon überzeugt, (sie war doch gestern auf der Party.)
‘I am convinced (because I saw her at the party yesterday).’
As evidentials per se are neutral with regard to a factuality value, they can-
not be part of the system of epistemic distinctions as expressed by the
modal verbs.
The opposite is true of epistemic modal verbs, which may be contex-
tually associated with any type of information source, which again, is proof
that they do not contain this feature as part of their semantic structure.
(17) Sie muss die Arbeit abgegeben haben.
‘She must have handed in her doctoral thesis.’
Katarina hat es mir erzählt.
‚Katarina told me.‘
Ich habe sie gestern auf der Party gesehen.
‚I saw her at the party yesterday.‘
Ich habe sie mit einem großen Paket Richtung Dekanat gehen se-
hen.
‘I saw her heading for the dean’s office with a large parcel.’
Table 2. Epistemic and evidential paraphrases
Epistemic modality:
Die Lieferung dürfte/könnte/mag größer sein als erwartet.
‘The delivery might/could/may be larger than expected.’
Origo attributes an uncertain degree of factuality to P.
Evidentiality:
Die Lieferung scheint/droht/verspricht größer zu sein als erwartet.
‘The delivery seems/threatens/promises to be larger than expected.’
Origo has an information source for P.
Summarizing this discussion we may state the following: while epistemic
markers, which are usually treated as the grammatical core of modality,
instantiate speaker-based factuality judgments, i.e. the degree of certainty,
with which the speaker is willing to assert the proposition, evidential
markers serve to indicate the information source, which is the speaker’s
basis for his/her statement. While epistemics judge modal values on a scale
of certainty/factuality, evidentials refer to different kinds of information
sources. Thus, the gist of the source distinctions is captured in the exam-
The common deictic nature and the different realizations of source concepts 87
ples and their paraphrases in Table 2. In particular the following points
should be noted:
1. Epistemic modality and evidentiality are semantic-cognitive domains
which are concerned with the speaker-based evaluation of the ontolog-
ical status (the kind of existence) of a described event/situation.
2. Both are deictic categories, i.e. they make a speaker-based evaluation
of the proposition concering each dimension’s particular semantic do-
main.
3. Both share the concept of a deictic source, the origo.
4. Epistemic modality concerns the linguistic encoding of a deictic fac-
tuality judgment of the speaker concerning the described event.
5. Evidentiality concerns the linguistic encoding of the information
source, i.e. the type of source the speaker adduces for the described
event.
6. The essential contrast between them is the fact that the modal source in
epistemics is not explicitly expressed, while it is encoded in the evi-
dentials as the secondary predication.
Table 3. Epistemic and evidential distinctive features
Common feature
(deictic relation)
Speaker-based evaluation of ontological status of event
Distinctive
features
+
speaker-based
factuality judgment
+
speaker-based reference to
information source
–
speaker-based reference to
information source
–
speaker-based
factuality judgment
Ð
epistemic modality
Ð
evidentiality
The abstract common feature of both categories, i.e. the speaker-based
evaluation of the ontological status of a described event, as well as their
distinctive features which concern the nature of a source concept, may be
put down as given in Table 3.
88 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
3. Diachronic explication of distinctions between evidentials and
epistemics
Modal and evidential sources have a lot in common but also have some
important, category-distinctive differences. The last two sections have
shown the notional source distinctions, which make a difference, and the
deictic relation, which makes a commonality. The present section will
show that both classes – i.e. evidential and epistemic verbs – in German
have fundamental differences in their diachronic lexical ancestors (the
grammaticalization “source”, which is not to be (con)fused with the modal
source or any source in a relational structure), a fact which in our view is a
major argument to keep the two categories apart, at least, if one wants to
explore their diachronic grammaticalization paths.
As an overview, the diachronic difference in the origin of both types of
verbs – later evidentials and later epistemic modals – may be summarized
in a list.
The antecedents of modal verbs (for an extensive treatment see Diewald
1999)
1. are IE preterito-presents (i.e. perfecto-presents, old IE perfects which in
Germanic languages have present meaning);
2. are stative, resultative verbs (due to former perfect meaning);
3. are pseudo-transitive verbs (i.e. combined with accusative complement
without being transitive); and
4. have an experiencer subject as the carrier of a state (which is encoded
in the verbal predicate) expressing psycho-physical or spatial location
(cf. Meid 1983: 335; Meid 1971: 18, 39; Birkmann 1987: 87).
The diachronic development of modal verbs from “preterito-presents” or
“psycho-physical resultative verbs” implies a number of complex changes
on the semantic as well as the structural level. The most important ones
are:
1. the complementation by an infinitive which results in a condensed sta-
tive predicate;
2. the reinterpretation of the resultative semantic structure into a structure
involving a modal source;
3. the development of a “secondary” experiencer (which is the encoded
subject in non-deictic, narrow-scope modal uses);6
4. the development of the central modal construction, i.e. a stative verb
predicating a state concerning the infinitive complement on the subject,
Diachronic explication of distinctions between evidentials and epistemics 89
whereby this state is induced by a modal source; this can be paraph-
rased as “(the subject of the sentence) is in the state of having been
given a directive (by the modal source)”;
5. the differentiation of the modal meanings into deontic, volitional, dy-
namic (and possibly other) modal values via specification and feature
variation of the modal source (see Bech 1949, 1951, Calbert 1975,
Lyons 1977, Diewald 1999);
6. the development of the central deictic meaning via (inter alia) the rein-
terpretation of the modal source as the deictic origo; and
7. the reinterpretation of non-deictic modal values as various kinds of
uncertain factuality judgments (the modal sentence represents the re-
sult of a factual judgment procedure by the speaker).
Of most importance is the fact that the modal source has always been dis-
tinct from the subject of the sentence which is the experiencer of a result of
an event/situation instigated by the modal source.
The diachronic source items of evidentials in German show a remarka-
bly different make-up, and also their development into evidentials differs
markedly from the development of epistemic uses in the modals. The major
points are given here as lists, too. It should be kept in mind, however, that
many of the issues addressed here will come up in the discussion of the
diachronic data in the chapters to come.
The relevant features of the antecedents of the four evidential verbs are
the following:
1. the ancestors of evidential verbs are dynamic verbs, denoting some
kind of change or transformation;
2. the verbal scene is conceptualized as implying some cause leading to
some consequence;
3. as opposed to the concept of a modal source in modal verbs and their
antecedents, the implied cause in antecedents of evidentials is not spe-
cified as an external source;
4. the antecedents of evidential verbs are not restricted to animate sub-
jects;
5. the antecedents of evidential verbs denote some real world, “external”
phenomena (as opposed to internal psychophysical or local states in
preterito-presents);
6. they are intransitive verbs (werden, scheinen) or fully transitive verbs
(drohen, versprechen) with typically ingressive semantic features; and
7. they do not constitute a homogeneous group comparable to the preteri-
to-presents in the case of the modals.
90 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
The development of evidentials from pre-evidentials is highly deviant from
the development of the modals; it implies
1. the complementation by an infinitive, which – as opposed to the mod-
als – takes an idiosyncratic chronological path in each evidential verb;
2. the reinterpretation of a dynamic verb into a stative verb (resp. aux-
iliary);
3. the reinterpretation of a “cause” of movement or effect into an eviden-
tial source causing the speaker to make a statement, i.e. the evidential
source is not the deictic origo (as opposed to the modal source in the
deictic use of the modals). This process is called here the relocation of
the source entity.
The last feature points to the most important fact that the evidential source
is conceived of as distinct from the speaker (but co-present with the
speaker). By using the evidential the speaker points to this source, i.e. s/he
locates the source and only from there makes a statement concerning the
(primary) proposition. In other words: in evidentials the speaker points to
the existence of the evidential source and makes the statement on the basis
of the factuality of this evidential source.
4. Typological issues
In addition to the arguments brought up so far a look at evidential distinc-
tions in languages with sophisticated and fully grammaticalized systems of
evidential markers, like that of Tariana, which has already been presented
in Section 1.1.1, must lead to the conclusion that encoding the information
source does not necessarily entail concomitant epistemic marking. Obser-
vations supporting this view are the following: First, evidential and modal
markers may be combined in a sentence. This observation supports the
notion of two independent categories, with independent functions and
meanings, which are freely combinable in a sentence.
In a number of languages, evidentiality marking is mutually exclusive with
mood and modality, as is the case in Abkhaz and in many Samoyede lan-
guages. However, in Western Apache, Jarawara and Tariana, mood and
modality markers can occur together with evidentials. (Aikhenvald 2003:
16)
Second, evidential expressions may be free of any epistemic overtone. This,
too, is a crosslinguistic obversation:
Areas of overlap between evidentiality and epistemic modality 91
For Kashaya Pomo, a Hokan language spoken in Northern California, Os-
walt says that ‘it might be noted that … all propositions with the Kashaya
evidentials are presented by the speaker as certain and true’ (1986: 43). For
Iquito, a Zaparoan language from the Andes, Eastman and Eastman say, ‘re-
garding the reportative suffix -na and free form kináhá “so it is said”, [their
use] does not mean to cast doubt as to the truth of the statement, but merely
implies that it is a reported statement (1963: 191). Finally, in Coos, an Ore-
gon Penutian language, the evidential particle cku denotes evidence based
on inference. Frachtenberg (1922: 388) analyses this morpheme as being
composed of cΩ ‘slight surprise’ and ku ‘dubitative’. Regarding the status of
this evidential, Frachtenberg notes that it is used ‘whenever the speaker
wishes to state a fact that occurred beyond doubt, but whose causes are not
known to him (1922: 388). […] The hypothesis I am using is that evidentials
are in fact a priori unmarked with respect to a commitment to the truth of the
speech utterance on the part of the speaker. Evidentials merely assert that
there is evidence to back up the speaker’s utterance. Any connection be-
tween the two […] is secondary in nature. They encode different things
(source of information vs. attitude towards that information). Although they
are closely enough related to cause overlap in some languages, this overlap
is not universal. (De Haan 1999: 87)
This is to say that the behaviour of müssen and scheinen which we have
illustrated in the previous section can be found in many languages (cf. De
Haan 1999 for Dutch) and seems to represent a universal tendency.
5. Areas of overlap between evidentiality and epistemic modality
Evidentiality and epistemic modality being two distinct categories (which
we hope to have shown by now), does of course not prevent them from
having areas of overlap (otherwise this chapter would not be written). Van
der Auwera and Plungian (1998) (see also Faller 2002, Nuyts 2001, 2005,
and Mushin 2001) suggest the following classification of this part of the
semantic map of both categories. As can be seen in Figure 3, it is the regions
of epistemic necessity and inferential evidentiality that overlap.
[...] the inferential reading amounts to epistemic modality and more particu-
larly epistemic necessity: for both categories we are dealing with the certain-
ty of a judgment relative to other judgments. From this point of view it also
causes no surprise that inferential evidentials often receive an English trans-
lation with epistemic must. Inferential evidentiality is thus regarded as an
overlap category between modality and evidentiality. (van der Auwera and
Plungian 1998: 85-86)
92 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
Necessity
... Deontic necessity Epistemic
necessity =
Inferential
evidentiality
Quotative
evidentiality
...
Evidentiality
Figure 3. Overlap of evidentiality and modality (Inferential evidentiality = epis-
temic necessity) (van der Auwera and Plungian 1998: 86)
In contrast to van der Auwera and Plungian (1998) we do not assume a
total overlap of epistemic necessity and inferential evidentiality. Instead,
we assume that the sub-domains of epistemic necessity and inferential evi-
dentiality can and must be distinguished, for the following reasons:
1. not every inferential statement needs to have an epistemic modaliza-
tion;
2. not every statement expressing epistemic necessity needs to represent
the result of an inferencing process.
The following quote supports our opinion:7
In particular, an indirect evidential, which indicates that the speaker has only
indirect knowledge concerning the proposition being asserted, implies that
the speaker is not totally committed to the truth of that proposition and thus
implies an epistemic value. (Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca 1994: 180) [our
emphasis]
Thus we agree that both sub-categories are related via implicational
procedures. Furthermore, we contend that this implicational relation is not
obligatory. Keeping this in mind, it is not surprising that the two categories
tend to be mixed and expressed by the same linguistic entities. At the same
time, however, one cannot rule out that both sub-categories are
conceptualized and expressed independently of each other.
Empirical argument: in languages with overlapping categories of epis-
temic modality and evidentiality or “polysemous” linguistic meaning ex-
pressing these categories, the area of overlap/polysemy lies exactly in the
domain specified above (this concerns all European languages, including
Baltic and Slavic languages).
The inferred in a three-term system may acquire epistemic extensions of un-
certainty and probability – as in Quang and in Tsafiki. In Shipibo-Konibo,
both inferred evidentials (-bira and -mein) have overtones of uncertainty and
Areas of overlap between evidentiality and epistemic modality 93
doubt. In some four-term systems, only nonvisual acquires epistemic exten-
sions, since it may imply that the speaker is not in control. But this is by no
means universal. Many multi-term systems require subtle precision in indi-
cating how the information was obtained, which leaves little leeway for un-
certainty. Thus, epistemic meanings are expressed evidentials. Moreover,
languages with multi-term evidentials generally tend to have a multiplicity
of other verbal categories, especially ones that relate to modalities – exam-
ples include Tsafiki, and Tariana. (Aikhenvald 2003: 15)
Logical argument (implicational relations): usually, it is not possible to be
sure 100%, whether the conclusion is valid even if the premise is true (that is
the case with deduction, induction, and abduction); the conclusion always
has the status of a (strong) hypothesis. On the other hand, it may be assumed
that the higher the degree of certainty a speaker assigns to a statement the
more likely it is that the speaker has “good reasons” (i.e. evidence) for it.
From this it follows that in German all evidentials in the field of infe-
rential evidentiality usually seem to display epistemic implicatures. This,
too, is the opinion of most scholars working in this field. As the paraphras-
es in earlier sections have shown, the relation between the two domains is
one of converse implicatures and converse inherent semantics. German
evidentials stereotypically display epistemic conversational implicatures.
These epistemic nuances are not part of the inherent semantics of the evi-
dentials.
And vice versa: German epistemic modals (müssen, können, mögen,
dürfte) may often have evidential – inferential – interpretations (in particu-
lar if inflected with the dental suffix), which, however are not part of their
inherent semantics. That is, we do not consider modals to be evidential
expressions in PDG. Confer also Plungian (2001), who mentions possible
textual conditions for an evidential implicatures in epistemics:
[…] an epistemic marker contains more evidential properties when the
source of the speaker’s hypothesis is specified (it may be based on a priori
as well as a posteriori evidence, etc.). (Plungian 2001: 354)
As mentioned before, the evidential meaning of German epistemic modal
expressions is assumed to arise via pragmatic strengthening of particular
conversational implicatures. The speaker marks the epistemic modal status
of the proposition characterizing it as more or less sure, i.e. indicating
his/her degree of commitment to the truth of the proposition. In this case,
on the hearer’s side, the implicature may easily arise that the speaker’s
attitude towards the proposition (and the proposition itself) is based upon
some evidence available to him/her. This implicature may be gradually
94 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
conventionalized, or “semanticized” (Hopper and Traugott [1993] 2003),
becoming part of the semantic content of the originally epistemic modal
form.8
Conversational implicatures are not part of the inherent semantics,
therefore, as already Anderson (1986: 274) emphasizes, evidential implica-
tures do not justify speaking of evidentials, and vice versa, epistemic im-
plicatures do not justify classification as epistemics.
Finally it may be noted in passing that the fact that both notions – evi-
dentiality and epistemic judgment – are compatible with each other, is a
further argument for our point that they are distinct categories, with dis-
tinct meanings: it is possible that the speaker wants to express both mean-
ings (epistemic judgment and source information) in the same sentence:
however, s/he is not forced to do so, as we are dealing with two indepen-
dent categories. We may represent the situation as a converse distribution
of semantic features and conversational implicatures in the modal epistem-
ic and evidentials systems respectively. This relationship is illustrated in
Table 4.
Table 4. Converse distribution of semantic features and conversational
implicatures
Evidentials Source information Factuality judgment
Inherent semantic
feature
+ –
Conversational
implicature
– +
Epistemics Source information Factuality judgment
Inherent semantic
feature
– +
Conversational
implicature
+ –
Summarizing this section (and this chapter) we conclude that we share the
conviction of many linguists that it is absolutely necessary to draw a clear
theoretical distinction between the two concepts, between evidentiality and
epistemicity/factuality. It is only on the basis of a sharp distinction that
overlaps and gradation between the two domains can be properly integrated
into a linguistic description. Thus, we postulate two distinct paradigms for
PDG, one modal-epistemic, one evidential. The two systems are
1. semantically coherent,
2. formally homogeneous,
Areas of overlap between evidentiality and epistemic modality 95
3. derived from their own specific grammaticalization paths respectively,
4. and compatible with typological classifications.
The epistemic system is closely integrated into the paradigm of verbal
moods, i.e. it encodes deictic values concerning speaker-based factuality
judgments (see Table 1 above). The evidential system, on the other hand,
encodes speaker-based information source and is in principle independent
of the system of factuality markers. This distinction has been put forward
here on the basis of synchronic, diachronic and typological arguments. As
concerns the original classification given in Diewald (2004) (see Section
1), the following revisions have been made:
1. German evidentials may have epistemic overtones. However, they are
not inherently epistemic. Instead, they are neutral towards any epistem-
ic value and therefore allow combinations with any degree of epistemic
certainty.
2. The facts call for a separation of evidentials and epistemics into two
distinct systems with converse distribution of inherent semantics and
conversational implicatures.
3. The labels for features will be adapted with reference to typological
studies and continued empirical studies with our corpora.
4. The features “+/-ingressive” will be omitted as they render earlier stag-
es of the grammaticalization path.
For the German system the decisive part of the universal classification of
evidential values elaborated in Chapter 2.2, is the inferential evidential
section (see Chapter 2.2.2). As a first attempt, it is extracted and provisio-
nally supplemented with the respective German constructions in Table 5.
Table 5. Preliminary classification of inferential evidential values in German
inferential evidentiality
conceptual conceptual/
perceptual
perceptual
non-desired desired
werden &
infinitive
scheinen & zu-
infinitive
drohen & zu &
infinitive
versprechen & zu &
infinitive
96 Evidentiality and modality – drawing the lines
The following minimal pairs are meant to exemplify these distinctions and
semantic values.
(18) In Hannover wird es regnen.
‘It will be raining in Hannover.’
[inference based on general knowledge]
(19) In Hannover scheint es zu regnen.
‘It seems to be raining in Hannover.’
[inference based on general knowledge and/or on observable evi-
dence]
(20) In Hannover droht es zu regnen.
‘It threatens to start raining in Hannover.’
[inference based on observable evidence, propositional content
non-desired]
(21) In Hannover verspricht es zu regnen.
‘It promises to start raining in Hannover.’
[inference based on observable evidence, propositional content de-
sired]
As this system stands now, it is of course a hypothesis the plausibility of
which has to be proved in the rest of the book.
Chapter 4
Grammar and grammaticalization
As we regard the development of evidentials in German as a process of
grammaticalization, it is necessary to provide the basic theoretical assump-
tions of grammaticalization theory that guide our study. Therefore this
chapter is devoted to laying out the relevant concepts and tenets of gram-
maticalization theory. Beyond this introduction to theoretical considera-
tions this chapter provides exemplary results from our corpus study, i.e. it
intertwines theoretical explication and corpus based exemplification. Sec-
tion 4.1 is devoted to definitions of grammaticalization and grammar, Sec-
tion 4.2 discusses the parameters of grammaticalization as set up by
Lehmann, and applies them to our data in an investigation of the degree of
grammaticalization of drohen & infinitive in PDG. Section 4.3 provides a
rough sketch of the respective degrees of grammaticalization of all four
verbs when checked against Lehmann’s grammaticalization parameters.
1. Obligatoriness and paradigmatic organization
Grammaticalization theory today is a broadly accepted and well-introduced
linguistic model for describing and explaining the rise of grammatical for-
matives and grammatical paradigms in language. This broad acceptance,
however, also means that there are several conflicting notions of relevant
concepts. Therefore, it seems necessary to sketch briefly the central con-
cepts and their definitions as used in this study.
As most influential definitions of grammaticalization agree, grammati-
calization is a process which leads to the rise of new grammatical markers
and grammatical oppositions from source items which did not have a
grammatical function (or that particular grammatical function) before. This
is reflected in most definitions of grammaticalization, e.g. the one by
Lehmann:1
Grammaticalization is a process leading from lexemes to grammatical for-
matives. A number of semantic, syntactic and phonological processes inte-
ract in the grammaticalization of morphemes and of whole constructions.
(Lehmann 1995 [1982]: viii).
98 Grammar and grammaticalization
It has been common knowledge from the very beginning of modern gram-
maticalization theory that grammaticalization processes are of a composite
nature, which is to say that there is no single process constituting a neces-
sary and sufficient condition for talking about grammaticalization (for an
overview of the literature see Diewald 2004, 2008). Instead, we have to
deal with a range of processes which interact in grammaticalization.
Traugott (2003: 644) states that “early grammaticalization can therefore be
seen as a complex set of correlated changes”, which she specifies as fol-
lows:
i. structural decategorialization;
ii. shift from membership in a relatively open set to membership in a rela-
tively closed one (i.e., from lexical category to syntactic operator category)
in the context of a specific construction;
iii. bonding (erasure of morphological boundaries) within a construction;
iv. semantic and pragmatic shift from more to less referential meaning via
invited inferencing and phonological attrition, which may result in the de-
velopment of paradigmatic zero [...]. Traugott (2003: 644)
Summarizing literature on this issue,2
Diewald and Wischer (2005) state:
The data which have been examined cross-linguistically constitute convinc-
ing evidence that the mechanisms and principles involved in grammaticali-
zation conform to a complex process of coding and organization of lan-
guage. It is not enough to know the individual mechanisms, because none of
them is confined to grammaticalization. They can all be involved in other
processes of language change. Only in their interaction, they make up a gra-
dual and directed path that leads to the evolution of grammatical forms.
(Diewald and Wischer 2005, manuscript)
In short, irrespective of the fact that the exact descriptions and classifica-
tions of the sub-processes vary among individual authors, grammaticaliza-
tion scholars have acknowledged the multifactorial nature of grammaticali-
zation from the very beginning. Consequently, the distinctive and unique
feature of grammaticalization is generally seen in its particular combina-
tion and serialization of several processes and stages, which – among other
things – are reflected in grammaticalization scales and paths and complex
scenarios of successive contexts and constructions.
Beyond the features conjointly defining the process of grammaticaliza-
tion, there are others which are derived from the structural organization of
grammatical expressions in a language. Of particular relevance in this con-
text – though not undisputed – are the notions of obligatoriness and para-
Obligatoriness and paradigmatic organization 99
digm (or turned into dynamic concepts: “obligatorification” and “paradig-
maticisation”).
Referring to Roman Jakobson and the notion of “Ars obligatoria” of the
medieval grammarians, Lehmann (2004: 155) states that grammar is “es-
sentially a system of constraints”, and consequently, the “grammaticaliza-
tion of a linguistic sign is a process in which it loses in autonomy by be-
coming more subject to constraints of the linguistic system”, i.e. an
obligatory choice determined by linguistic rules and oppositions.3
As grammatical paradigms are constituted by obligatory choice among a
defined set of members, the notions of paradigmaticity and obligatoriness
are two sides of the same coin. A good description of the connection be-
tween obligatoriness and paradigmatic organization which also explains
the notion of zero-marking is given in Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca (1994):
Once a gram or class of grams has come to be used in all appropriate con-
texts, redundantly or not, the lack of a gram of that class in the appropriate
context becomes meaningful. Thus if a past tense gram develops and comes
to be used in both redundant and non-redundant situations the cases where it
does not appear will be interpreted as signalling meaning other than past.
The tense category in that language will have become obligatory, with an
overt gram for past and zero marking for present (Bybee 1990b). (Bybee,
Perkins and Pagliuca 1994: 9)
As obligatoriness is usually taken to be the ultimate criterion of member-
ship in the realm of grammatical signs, it is legitimate to formulate as a
rule of thumb that “Grammatical categories are obligatory”, which marks a
prototypical situation.4
And consequently, the feature of obligatoriness, i.e.
subjection to grammatical rules within a paradigmatic arrangement, is
treated as an abstract high-level criterion for defining the target area of
grammaticalization.
However, beyond the prototype, obligatoriness and paradigmaticity are
a matter of degree. They are dependent on empirical verification and on
actual usage, i.e. they have to be determined on a language-specific basis.
Furthermore, as grammaticalization is the process of building and rearrang-
ing paradigms with signs becoming obligatory, it is of course to be ex-
pected that there is an infinitely fine-grained scale of intermediate pheno-
mena. Consequently, there have always been authors, like Lehmann (1995
[1982]: 12) and Plungian (1998), who state that both criteria refer to phe-
nomena which are matters of degree, i.e. grammatical categories can form
more or less clear-cut paradigms, and the choice among their members can
be more or less obligatory.
100 Grammar and grammaticalization
On one end of the scale, there are paradigms the choice among whose
members is 100 percent obligatory and subject to grammatical rules. These
are rules for the choice among a morphological paradigm like the choice in
gender concord in adjectives or the conditions for case marking in noun
phrases (Det. & N) in German. Usually, grammatical items subject to this
sort of obligatoriness are members of inflectional paradigmatic opposi-
tions, i.e., notwithstanding periphrastic forms, at the core of such para-
digms there is bound morphology in the form of inflection, i.e. old grams
with heavy semantic and formal reduction. The selection of one element in
paradigms of this sort is obligatory and governed by language-internal
rules, which means that it is concomitant to higher level decisions. For
example, in the case of gender concord in German, the choice of a particu-
lar nominal lexeme, which in German has a fixed gender, automatically
determines the choice of gender concord in the attributive adjective and the
determiner. Any deviant realization would produce incorrect utterances
(e.g. ein silberner Löffel (masc.), *eine silberne Löffel, *ein silbernes
Löffel ‘a silver spoon’).
This type of obligatoriness is called here language-internal obligatori-
ness. As it is steered language internally and thus subject to formal trig-
gers, its mechanism of choice can be represented by the following condi-
tional sentence:
If form x, then form y.
Language-internal obligatoriness is contrasted with a second type of obli-
gatoriness, for which the term communicative obligatoriness is chosen (see
also next section under the parameter of paradigmatic variability). Com-
municative obligatoriness concerns the behavior of those linguistic items,
which do function as grammatical closed-class items, but which are still
not obligatory in the sense illustrated above. The term “communicative
obligatoriness” is intended to embrace the fact that many categories are
obligatory in the sense that they have to be realized in the relevant position,
i.e. the speaker cannot leave them unspecified if s/he does not want to pro-
duce incorrect utterances, but the choice among the paradigmatic members
of the category is not determined by language-internal features but by the
communicative intentions of the speaker.5
A fine example of communicative obligatoriness is the voice distinc-
tions in German, i.e. the choice between the active and the two passive
constructions, the werden-passive, and to the so-called dative passive.6
Both passives are realized as periphrastic constructions which can be
Obligatoriness and paradigmatic organization 101
grouped into a paradigm together with the active verb form as the un-
marked member. The three voice constructions of German are given in
Table 1, examples with the verb überweisen ‘transfer’ are given in Table 2:
Table 1. The voice constructions in German
Active Agent Fin.Verb Recipient Theme
W-Pass. Theme Fin.Aux werden Recipient PrepPhr.Agent PP main verb
B-Pass Recipient. Fin.Aux bekommen PrepPhr.Agent Theme PP main verb
Table 2. Examples for voice constructions with the verb überweisen ‘transfer’
Active
Das Unternehmen überweist dem Verein die ganze Summe.
The company transfers to the society the full amount.
W-Passive
Die ganze Summe wird dem Verein vom Unternehmen überwiesen.
The full amount is to the society by the company transferred.
B-Passive
Der Verein bekommt vom Unternehmen die ganze Summe überwiesen.
The society gets by the company the full amount transferred.
The voice distinctions obviously make up a grammatical paradigm in Ger-
man (and are treated as such in current grammars). However, there is no
linguistic context in which a speaker would be forced to use a passive in
German, i.e. there are no contexts in which a passive construction is obli-
gatory in the strict sense, meaning that another choice of one of the para-
digmatic members would be grammatically wrong. The choice is controlled
communicatively; it is a question of speaker perspective and not deter-
mined by linguistic structure.7
By analogy to the rule for language-internal obligatoriness, communica-
tive obligatoriness can be formulated in a conditional clause which refers
to a speaker’s needs.
If intention x, then form y.
According to the category concerned, this rule may be expanded as needed.
For the choice of the werden-passive as in the example above, the condi-
tions motivating its use may be formulated as in Table 3.
This type of communicatively given obligatoriness is exactly what we
find in the case of the evidential constructions of German (the paradigmat-
102 Grammar and grammaticalization
ic organization of which will be described in detail in Chapter 7). The pro-
posed paradigm of the four evidential constructions – which of course is
seen to have the pure indicative form of the main verb as its unmarked base
– is “obligatory” in a similar way as the choice of a passive form is. There
is no structural, language-internal need to use any of these forms in a par-
ticular context, i.e. there is no language-internal obligatoriness. Speakers of
German are not forced to express marked values of evidential meanings by
using these forms. They may leave this information unspecified (note,
however, that the indicative may be used to express an unmarked evidential
value as well as a neutralized value not sensitive for evidentiality at all, cf.
Section 2.2).
Table 3. Conditions motivating the use of a werden-passive
If the speaker wants to
put the theme into the privileged topological position at the beginning of the
sentence, and
keep the lexical verb of the corresponding active sentence, and
avoid a marked linear order (which in this case would be a topicalized object)
then the speaker must
use the werden-passive (given it is possible at all).
Also, as shown before (Section 1.1.1), there is a range of lexical, phrasal,
syntactic alternatives to express evidential meanings in German as is once
more illustrated in the following examples:
(1) a. Anscheinend/offensichtlich scheitern die Verhandlungen.
‘Obviously/seemingly the negotations are failing.’
b. Es sieht so aus, als ob die Verhandlungen scheitern.
‘It looks as if the negotations are failing.’
However, if the speaker intends to express evidential meaning in a routi-
nized way which triggers clear paradigmatic distinctions, s/he will use one
of the evidential constructions according to the particular value to be ex-
pressed.
(2) a. Die Verhandlungen scheinen zu scheitern.
‘The negotiations seem to fail.’
Obligatoriness and paradigmatic organization 103
b. Die Verhandlungen drohen zu scheitern.
‘The negotiations threaten to fail.’
c. Die Verhandlungen versprechen zu scheitern.
‘The negotiations promise to fail.’
d. Die Verhandlungen werden scheitern.
‘The negotiations are bound to fail.’
That is to say that by using this construction the speaker highlights the fact
that s/he clearly wants to mark the evidential status of the proposition and
that this information is not intended as the focus of the message, but as back-
grounded information. Therefore, it is encoded by one of the grammatical-
ized evidential constructions which form an evidential paradigm with distinct
values that could not be substituted by one another without change of mean-
ing.
Thus, while there is freedom to choose lexical material to encode evi-
dential meaning in PDG, if the speaker decides to use a grammatical mark-
er of evidentiality, one of the four evidential periphrases will be used obli-
gatorily according to communicative intentions in the sense that the choice
within the paradigm is systematically constrained. By analogy to the pas-
sive-rule in Table 3, we can formulate the following conditional rule for
the use of evidentials in German:8
Table 4. Conditions motivating the use of an evidential periphrasis
If the speaker wants to
indicate that s/he has evidence for his or her statement, and
keep the lexical verb of the corresponding indicative sentence, and
does not want to foreground the evidential meaning
then the speaker must
use an evidential construction.
Summing up what has been discussed so far: the feature of obligatoriness
(regularity or rule-boundedness), which is usually treated as one of the
main indicators of grammar, is a matter of degree (cf. grammaticalization
parameter 5, paradigmatic variability or obligatorification below). Very
often, it is difficult to decide the degree of obligatoriness of a certain item.
Many linguistic items which are classified as genuine grammatical catego-
ries of a language, and which are rightly classified as such, because they
104 Grammar and grammaticalization
share many of the features of grammatical categories (a sufficient degree of
formal and semantic reduction, paradigmatic association in a closed class),
do not pass the strict test of obligatoriness. Therefore, language-internal
obligatoriness, in the way defined above, is a sufficient but not a necessary
condition for the status of a gram, i.e. a grammatical marker. Instead, many
grammatical distinctions, many grammatical categories, are employed ac-
cording to communicatively controlled conditions; they are subject to
communicative obligatoriness. The rules of usage for the evidential con-
structions of German are of this type of communicative obligatoriness.
Connected to the problem of obligatoriness and paradigm formation is
the question of membership of periphrastic forms in a paradigm, i.e. the
question by which criteria and when a particular periphrastic form should
be inserted into or excluded from a grammatical paradigm.
As this pertains to the topic treated here, the case may be illustrated by
some examples from periphrastic verb forms with infinitive constructions,
which closely touch the topic of this book. There are some infinitive con-
structions, which are traditionally seen as pertaining to the tense and mood
paradigm – these are the periphrases with werden and würde like in wird
fragen, wird gefragt haben (which are usually dubbed “future” and “future
perfect” respectively), and würde fragen, and there are others, e.g. the infi-
nitive constructions with modal verbs like mag fragen, dürfte fragen,
which are not included, although many of them in frequency as well as in
some of their functions equal verbal periphrases with werden (cf. Diewald
1999, Smirnova 2006). This is illustrated in Table 5.
Table 5. Future tense/mood paradigms: periphrastic forms with infinitives
Infinitive constructions typically inserted into the future tense/mood paradigm:
wird & infinitive: wird fragen
würde & infinitive: würde fragen
wird & perfect infinitive: wird gefragt haben
würde & perfect infinitive: würde gefragt haben
Infinitive constructions typically not inserted into future tense/mood paradigm:
modal verbs & infinitive mag/dürfte ... fragen
modal verbs & perfect infinitive mag/dürfte ... gefragt haben
Again, there have been broad and long-standing discussions on the ques-
tion of whether German does have an analytic future or not, and in what
place the würde-construction falls,9
and to what degree modal verbs plus
infinitives are realizations of a complex periphrastic mood system
(Diewald 1999, 1999a). But as in the case of the voice distinctions, all
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 105
these discussions so far are hardly reflected in the standard descriptions of
verbal paradigms and categories in grammars and reference books.
Without going into the details of this discussion, the gist of this exam-
ple can be summarized as follows. As far as semantic, functional and struc-
tural aspects, as well as frequency and pragmatic factors are concerned,
there is no convincing argument for drawing the line between members and
non-members of grammatical paradigms where it is traditionally drawn.
Periphrastic verbal constructions are a constant though often suppressed
problem for any strict paradigmatic organisation. This statement of course
is relevant for evidential constructions as well. They, too, up to now never
appeared as a paradigm in a grammar or reference book, although they
fulfill the same functions as other constructions which are treated as mem-
bers of a paradigm. Therefore, the next section takes pains to prove the
high degree of grammaticalization of these constructions.
2. Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials
In order to compare degrees of grammaticalization in a reliable way that
allows quantitative and qualitative comparisons and judgements on all
levels of linguistic structure involved in the process, one needs a testing
procedure which can be used for all possible grammatical categories, all
stages of the process and also for diachronic as well as synchronic compar-
ison. The grammaticalization parameters set up by Lehmann serve this task
and have proved a sharp tool for evaluating degrees of grammaticalization
by a combination of formal and semantic features in both the syntagmatic
and the paradigmatic dimensions. As the verification of the degrees of
grammaticalization for each item treated is an a priori to further argumen-
tation, and as the parameters constitute a tight-knit and complex system of
distinctions, the discussion of the parameters has to be devoted some space
here.
2.1. Lehmann’s grammaticalization parameters
The parameters categorize the notions discussed in the last section, e.g.
obligatoriness and paradigmaticity (cf. in particular parameters 2, 3, 5) and
combine them with inherent features of the sign in question (i.e. its phono-
logical and semantic features). By applying the parameters, it is possible to
compare particular linguistic items precisely as to their respective beha-
106 Grammar and grammaticalization
viour in each parameter, and thus decide on their relative degree of gram-
maticalization. This comparison is possible between items of the same
synchronic period – e.g. one periphrastic construction as compared to
another one – as well as on the diachronic level, i.e. comparison of a con-
struction X1 at time t1 with a construction X2 at time t2 with the purpose
of estimating the increase in grammaticalization of that linguistic entity in
the course of time.
The fundamental property relevant for breaking down the parameters is
the autonomy of a sign, which by definition is high in lexical and low in
grammatical signs. Applied to the syntagmatic and paradigmatic axis of
language and split into the three properties of weight, cohesion and varia-
bility, the relative degree of autonomy of a sign can be measured by the
following six parameters. The minus behind a parameter label means that
this feature is reduced in grammaticalization, the plus means that this fea-
ture is increased under grammaticalization. The terms in italics are
Lehmann’s names for the diachronic processes involved.
Table 6. Grammaticalization parameters adapted from Lehmann (1985: 306)
Paradigmatic Syntagmatic
weight
cohesion
variability
(1) integrity (–)
phonetic/semantic attrition
(3) paradigmaticity (+)
paradigmaticization
(5) paradigmatic variability (–)
obligatorification
(2) structural scope (–)10
condensation
(4) bondedness (+)
coalescence
(6) syntagmatic variability (–)
fixation
The weight of a sign concerns its distinction from the other members of its
class. The more distinct it is, the less it is grammaticalized. Its paradigmat-
ic realization leads to the first grammaticalization parameter, integrity,
which is reduced by phonetic and/or semantic attrition. Its syntagmatic
expression renders the second grammaticalization parameter, structural
scope, which is reduced by condensation.
The concept of cohesion captures relational aspects of a given sign and
its neighbouring signs, i.e. the degree of dependence and sticking together.
On the paradigmatic axis we get the third grammaticalization parameter,
i.e. paradigmaticity; on the syntagmatic axis we get bondedness (parameter
4). Cohesion increases in grammaticalization on both the syntagmatic as
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 107
well as the paradigmatic axis, which is called paradigmaticization and coa-
lescence respectively.11
Bondedness and loss of integrity are the two parameters which come
out most prominently in the grammaticalization scales which are common-
ly used in grammaticalization studies. Thus, Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca
(1994: 40) suggest a scale representing “degrees of fusion”, which
proceeds from syntactic realizations to non-bound grams to inflection, de-
rivation and lexical realization, thereby spanning all levels of linguistic
structure. A category-specific example of such a scale is Lehmann’s cline
for the development of case affixes, which has the following shape:
relational noun >
secondary adposition >
primary adposition >
agglutinative case affix >
fusional case affix
Figure 1. Grammaticalization scale for case affixes from relational nouns
(Lehmann 1985: 304)
As clines like this, which are central to grammaticalization processes,
represent typical stages of otherwise continuous, gradual shifts through
several levels of linguistic structure, they presuppose a view of language
that does not draw a sharp line between syntactic structure and lexical enti-
ties, or between words (i.e. free forms) and morphemes.
Finally, Lehmann introduces the feature of variability, i.e. the mobility
or shiftability with respect to other signs, which generally decreases with
increased grammaticalization. Its paradigmatic aspect, called paradigmatic
variability, is associated with obligatorification in the case of continued
grammaticalization; its syntagmatic aspect, called syntagmatic variability,
shows increasing fixation in correlation with increasing grammaticaliza-
tion.
Lehmann’s parameters have been successfully applied in many gram-
maticalization studies in the last years. They have proved particularly fruit-
ful in the studies of the development of several verbal periphrastic catego-
ries, which makes them highly attractive for this study as well.12
The
functioning of the parameters can best be demonstrated by an example.
Therefore, in the next section each parameter is described in some detail,
and its functioning is exemplified by data from our corpus with the con-
struction drohen & zu-infinitive in PDG being used as an exemplar case.
108 Grammar and grammaticalization
After that, grammaticalization data from the other three constructions in
present day German are given in the form of a summary.
2.2. Degree of grammaticalization of evidential drohen: a detailed study
In the German linguistic literature, drohen within infinitive constructions
has been called a Modalitätsverb ‘modality verb’ (Askedal 1997, Engel
2004), a Halbmodalverb ‘semi-modal verb’ (Zifonun et al. 1997) or a rais-
ing verb (Reis 2005), without specifying its grammatical status. Some
grammarians argue for treating drohen as an auxiliary (e.g. Jung 1988,
Diewald 2004), others reject such a view (e.g. Eisenberg 2004, Engel
2004). Still others place the verb somewhere in between (e.g. Helbig and
Buscha 1988). Finally, there are some authors (Gunkel 2000, Kokutani
2004) who claim that there is no distinction in status (between lexical ver-
sus grammatical drohen) at all, arguing that the difference between two
readings of the verb is a matter of lexical semantics rather than of different
– lexical versus grammatical – status.
Heine and Miyashita (2004) is the first attempt to describe drohen with-
in the framework of grammaticalization theory and, in doing so, have con-
vincingly shown that the functional – i.e. grammatical – drohen exhibits a
high degree of grammaticalization. For their investigation they applied the
following four parameters of grammaticalization established by Heine and
Kuteva (2002) which – as obvious – can easily be associated with the re-
spective parameters of Lehmann’s system:
a. extension (or context generalization)
b. desemanticization (or semantic bleaching)
c. decategorialization, i.e. loss in morphosyntactic properties characteris-
tic of lexical or other less grammaticalized forms
d. erosion (or phonetic reduction)
The analysis of drohen within infinitive constructions with regard to these
four parameters of grammaticalization has the result that drohen is a ca-
nonical instance of auxiliarization (see Heine and Miyashita 2004, 2008 for
further details).
The two comparanda are the lexical and functional uses of drohen & zu-
infinitive in PDG – the division into these two uses being common practice
among linguistics. These usages are illustrated by the following examples.
(3) represents drohen as a (lexical) main verb with agentive semantics, in
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 109
which case extraposition is what is to be expected; (4) shows functional
drohen as an auxiliary (or: semi-auxiliary) verb with evidential semantics.
Not surprisingly, it is assumed that the lexical usage is less grammatica-
lized than the functional usage, and this difference should come out in the
grammaticalization parameters as well. We will see later, that – on the
basis of our own corpus analysis – it is reasonable to assume (at least)
three different readings of the verb drohen. For the time being, and in order
to illustrate in principle the functioning of Lehmann’s grammaticalization
parameters and the way we put them to use in this book, it may suffice to
work with the two fundamental distinctions illustrated above.
(3) ... worin diese drohen, sofort die Verbindung abzubrechen
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘in which they threaten to cut off the connection at once.’
(4) Wenn man also merkt, daß eine Diskussion (etwa über Politik) in
einen Streit auszuarten droht. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘This means that as soon as you realize that a discussion (say about
politics) threatens to turn into a quarrel.’
Before starting, one brief remark concerning the discriminatory power of
the parameters is in place. The parameters are particularly distinctive in
advanced stages of grammaticalization with ample formal changes having
taken place. In less advanced grammaticalization processes, one or the
other of the parameters may not produce notable differences between the
two items compared. Thus, in our data on the four German evidential con-
structions, we found that the phonological aspects of parameter 1 (attrition)
are not distinctive, i.e. there is not yet a sign of phonological attrition (loss
of phonological substance) in the evidential verbs in PDG. Concerning
their phonological substance both lexical and functional uses of the four
verbs are equal. Similarly parameter 6, syntagmatic variability, is not dis-
tinctive as to degrees of grammaticalization, which is to be expected on
typological grounds (see below). Still, even non-distinctiveness in a given
case at a given stage is a valid and interesting result of the comparison.
Beyond these two reservations, the parameters are highly distinctive.
Parameter 1: integrity. There are some crucial differences between the
lexical and functional variant of drohen, which strongly suggest that the
semantics of functional drohen has undergone desemanticization. The lexi-
cal variant of drohen has strong intentional semantics; it normally com-
bines with human or animate subjects. Frequently, drohen serves as a
110 Grammar and grammaticalization
speech-act verb denoting the announcement of an action that is undesirable
for the hearer; the action announced is typically to be carried out by the
speaker, who is also the one making the announcement in oral form. The
functional variant of drohen, on the other hand, shows the complete loss of
both lexical semantic components: the intentional semantics as well as the
component of threatening (i.e. speech act meaning). Only one semantic
feature has been retained, i.e. the component of undesirability (i.e. negative
evaluation) of the described event. The presence of some crucial semantic
differences together with the absence of phonological traces of attrition
nicely reflects the young age of this grammaticalization process, with se-
mantic change starting the process of grammaticalization and therefore
being clearly present and phonological attrition not yet being noticeable.
Parameter 2: syntagmatic weight or structural scope. Lexical drohen
realizes a wide range of its valence relations, only one of them being the
option with an infinitive. As the sentences below show, it can take dative
objects (b), direct- (c) and indirect-speech sentences (d) as well as dass-
complement clauses (e) and further complement clauses introduced by
damit (f) as complements (see also Askedal 1997 and Heine and Miyashita
2004, 2008 for a similar analysis). Additionally, lexical drohen can take
facultative prepositional complements as in (5g). The functional variant of
drohen, on the contrary, occurs only with zu-infinitives (6).
(5) a. Sie droht, mich zu verlassen (, wenn ich mich nicht verbessere).
‘She threatens to leave me (if I am not going to improve myself).’
b. Sie droht mir, mich zu verlassen.
‘She threatens [me(DAT)] to leave me.’
c. Sie droht: „Ich werde dich verlassen“.
‘She threatens: « I am going to leave you. »’
d. Sie droht, sie werde mich verlassen.
‘She is threatening to leave me.’
e. Sie droht, dass sie mich verlassen wird.
‘She threatens that she is going to leave me.’
f. Sie droht damit, mich zu verlassen.
‘She threatens with leaving me.’
g. Sie droht mit dem Finger/mit der Trennung.
‘She threatens with her finger/with separation.’
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 111
(6) Sie droht zu fallen/in Tränen auszubrechen/in Vergessenheit zu
geraten.
‘She threatens to fall /to break into tears /to be forgotten.’
Furthermore the zu-infinitive complement of functional drohen cannot be
replaced by any other constituents and cannot be pronominalized by damit
‘with it’, cf. (7) versus (8):
(7) a. Sie droht, mich zu verlassen.
‘She threatens to leave me.’
b. Sie droht damit.
‘She threatens with it.’
c. Sie droht mit Trennung.
‘She threatens with separation.’
(8) a. Sie droht in Vergessenheit zu geraten.
‘She threatens to be forgotten.’
b. *Sie droht damit.
*‘She threatens with it.’
c. *Sie droht mit Vergessenheit.
*‘She threatens oblivion.’
These modifications show that lexical drohen has a valency relation with
the subject, and thus serves as a predication about the subject of the sen-
tence. The grammatical variant of drohen, on the contrary, does not func-
tion as a predication about the subject of the sentence. Instead, it is a sec-
ondary predication and modifies the whole proposition that is introduced
by the infinitive. For this reason, the infinitive complement cannot be re-
placed by any other complement.
Moreover, the lexical variant of drohen allows for adverbial modifica-
tions, while this does not hold for grammatical drohen, cf.:
(9) Sie droht jetzt/weinend, mich zu verlassen.
‘She sobbingly threatens now to leave me.’
(10) Sie droht *jetzt/*weinend in Vergessenheit zu geraten.
*‘She sobbingly threatens now to be forgotten.’
The use of jetzt ‘now’ as in (10) is only acceptable if this adverb does not
refer to the drohen-event but modifies the verbal event introduced by the
112 Grammar and grammaticalization
infinitive. Hence, any further specification of functional drohen is blocked.
If there is a modification, it does not concern drohen itself but the infini-
tive verb combined with drohen.
The evidential variant of drohen does not show any restriction with re-
gard to its subject: the latter can be animate (11) or non-animate (12); it
may be a complement clause (13) or even an impersonal subject (14), cf.:
(11) Mein Mann droht krank zu werden. (taken from Heine and
Miyashita 2008)
‘My husband risks falling ill/threatens to fall ill.’
(12) Eine der größten politischen, sozialen und wirtschaftlichen Katas-
trophen drohte Deutschland zu vernichten. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘One of the biggest political, social and economic disasters threa-
tened to destroy Germany.’
(13) Dass wir das Heil in der Abwehr suchen, droht ein Desaster zu
werden. (taken from Gunkel 2000, 113)
‘That we are looking for salvation in defense, threatens to turn into
a disaster.’
(14) Es droht zu regnen. (taken from Gunkel 2000: 114)
‘It threatens to rain.’
By way of conclusion it can be stated that the functional variant of drohen
forms one constituent with the obligatory zu-infinitive. The lexical variant
of drohen, on the other hand, serves as an independent constituent which
may combine with other constituents at the clausal level. Hence the syn-
tagmatic weight of evidential drohen has significantly decreased in contrast
to its lexical counterpart, so that it can be considered an auxiliary (cf. also
Askedal 1997: 13).
Parameter 3: paradigmaticity or paradigmatic cohesion. The evidential
construction drohen & zu-infinitive together with the constructions schei-
nen/versprechen & zu-infinitive and werden & infinitive forms a (gram-
matical) paradigm of inferential evidentiality in PDG, where drohen & zu-
infinitive serves as a perceptual inferential marker. The perceptual inferen-
tial evidential value of drohen & zu-infinitive is the distinctive value of this
construction within the paradigm. It also has an additional semantic com-
ponent, i.e. it evaluates the described event negatively. Sharing the same
general property, i.e. the evidential inferential function, the four construc-
tions differ with regard to the specifications of the common basic meaning
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 113
they express. This fact suggests the high degree of integration of each con-
struction into the paradigm, insofar as each construction has its own dis-
tinct property within the paradigm (for further details see Chapter 7). As
for the lexical variant of drohen, it shows only a very low degree of para-
digmatic cohesion in an open lexical field including other expressions
(verbs, lexical expressions or syntactic structures), which are centered
around such semantic cores like ‘warn’, ‘risk’, ‘announce something nega-
tive’ etc. Thus, the degree of paradigmatic cohesion of lexical drohen is
very low, whereas functional drohen shows a higher degree of grammatica-
lization with respect to this parameter.
Parameter 4: bondedness or syntagmatic cohesion. There is no differ-
ence between lexical and functional drohen with regard to their cliticiza-
tion status (and univerbation as well): they both occur as free morphemes
and are not cliticized. However some symptoms on the syntactic level may
be observed which suggest that the functional variant of drohen is gram-
maticalized to a higher degree. The phenomenon in question is the cohe-
rence of the infinitive construction. As Bech (1955) showed, there is a
systematic difference between verbs admitting coherent and/or incoherent
infinitive constructions. While a coherent construction has the infinitive
within the verbal bracket in the middle field, an incoherent construction is
one in which the infinitive clause is extraposed to the right of the right
verbal bracket (cf. Zifonun et. al 1997: 2191). Verbs restricted to coherent
constructions show a higher degree of bondedness (as the verbal elements
are part of one verbal phrase) and are more auxiliary-like. As shown in
(15), when drohen is used in an incoherent construction it can only be giv-
en its lexical reading. (16a) illustrates the evidentials reading which is as-
sociated with the coherent construction. As to the possibility of examples
like in (16b), there are conflicting opinions as to whether extraposition of
the infinitive complement is possible (or acceptable). Zifonun et al. (1997)
assume that extraposition is acceptable, whereas e.g. Askedal (1997) and
Heine and Miyashita (2004, 2008) do not agree with this analysis:
(15) Ich weiß, dass sie droht, mich zu verlassen.
‘I know that she threatens to leave me.’
(16) a. Ich weiß, dass sie in Vergessenheit zu geraten droht.
‘I know that she threatens to be forgotten.’
b. ?? Ich weiß, dass sie droht, in Vergessenheit zu geraten.
?? ‘I know that she threatens to be forgotten.’
114 Grammar and grammaticalization
As regards this question we agree with the majority of the authors in as-
suming that extraposition is essentially not possible (even if not fully
blocked). This may be seen as proof of the increasing degree of bonded-
ness between the grammaticalized item drohen and the lexical material (zu-
infinitive) to which it bears syntagmatic relationship.
Parameter 5: paradigmatic variability. The lexical variant of drohen
does not show any signs of obligatory use; it can be freely substituted by
other lexical means depending on the communicative context. The use of
evidential drohen is considerably constrained: the freedom of substitution
by other linguistic entities is to a large extent restricted by the intended –
notably grammatical – value which is ascribed to the proposition. As con-
cerns drohen & zu-infinitive, as well as infinitive constructions with schei-
nen, versprechen and werden, they form a closed paradigm in PDG (see
Chapter 7). That is, given that the speaker wants to mark his/her statement
as based on his/her inference, s/he will use one of the four evidential con-
structions (cf. Section 4.1 on communicative obligatoriness). From this it
follows that the freedom of choice is restricted to the four members of the
paradigm, from which alternative values are selected. In this connection,
evidential drohen shows a decreasing degree of paradigmatic variability
and thus a higher degree of grammaticalization than its lexical counterpart.
A second aspect of paradigmatic variability has to do with the availabil-
ity of the range inflectional forms of each verb. As indicated above, “mor-
phological degeneration”, i.e. the loss of the ability to inflect may result as
an effect of attrition (Lehmann 1995 [1982]: 132), and, thus, under certain
conditions, might be also treated under Parameter 1. However as the verbs
in question do not lose their inflectional potential as a result of a phonolog-
ically accompanied attrition process, but just do not realize certain inflec-
tional forms in their grammaticalized use, this property is treated here un-
der Parameter 5. The reduction of inflectional paradigmatic variability, too,
can be observed in the case of evidential drohen. It lacks a number of in-
flectional forms which are available to its lexical counterpart. For instance,
it does not occur in periphrastic tense, mood and passive forms (see (17) to
(19)), it does not appear as a present participle (20), and it cannot be used
itself as infinitival complement as shown in (21) - (22). If drohen occurs in
such forms, it can only be given its lexical readings, cf.:
(17) Da ist er sauer geworden und hat mir gedroht, daß er den länge-
ren Arm hätte. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Then, he got angry and threatened me that he has more leverage.’
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 115
(18) Ich würde hierüber kein Wort verlieren, wenn mir nicht vor kurzer
Zeit, allerdings von sehr unmaßgeblicher Seite, mit Enthüllungen
aus jener Zeit gedroht worden wäre. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘I would not lose a word on it, if I had not been threatened recently
– though from a quite unimportant quarter – with disclosures from
that time.’
(19) Sie ist ein Damoklesschwert, aufgehängt über den Spitzen der Re-
gierung und Verwaltung, und es würde manches nicht geschehen
und manches geschehen, wenn dieses Schwert nicht über den
Häuptern drohen würde. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘.... if this sword did not threaten them above their heads.’
(20) Doch der Mann hielt drohend ein Gewehr im Anschlag und
brüllte. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘But the man threateningly levelled a gun at him and shouted.’
(21) Damit wollen Sie uns drohen, das werden Sie büßen! (DWDS,
Kernkorpus)
‘Do you think you can threaten us like that ? You will pay for it if
you do!’
(22) Uns zu drohen, ist idiotisch. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Threatening us would be idiotic.’
It should also be noted that lexical drohen occurs in the imperative forms,
whereas an imperative form of evidential drohen is impossible (the follow-
ing examples are taken from Askedal 1997: 13), cf.:
(23) Drohe den Arbeitern gefälligst nicht, sie zu entlassen!
‘Don’t you dare and threaten the workers with firing them!’
(24) *Oh, ihr langwierigen Verhandlungen, droht euch dennoch nicht
zu zerschlagen!
*‘Oh, you tedious negotations, don’t threaten to break up though!’
Hence evidential drohen has lost to some extent its capacity to realize
“normal” inflectional categories of main verbs. It functions as a grammati-
cal formative with its own inflectional paradigm which is typical of other
auxiliaries as well. In the light of all these observations we can postulate a
certain degree of reduction of paradigmatic variability.
Parameter 6: syntagmatic variability. There is no difference between
lexical and more grammaticalized variants of drohen in respect to this pa-
116 Grammar and grammaticalization
rameter. This fact originates from the overall structural characteristics of
the German language, where the finite verb always takes a fixed position in
the clause. Hence both main verbs and auxiliaries show the same degree of
syntagmatic variability, as both take the same position (of finite verb) in
sentences.
To summarize, the application of the six parameters of grammaticaliza-
tion has shown that in five out of six parameters there are significant
changes in status of the verb drohen from a lexical main verb towards a
grammaticalized evidential auxiliary. Thus, we were able to reveal convin-
cingly the relatively high degree of grammaticalization, i.e. of auxiliariza-
tion, of the verb drohen.
2.3. The degrees of grammaticalization of versprechen, scheinen and
werden
The investigation of the other three verbs in PDG results in an analogous
diagnosis: the evidential constructions, i.e. werden & infinitive, scheinen &
zu infinitive and versprechen & zu-infinitive show a distinctly higher de-
gree of grammaticalization than other constructions with these verbs if
tested by the grammaticalization parameters. In order to avoid redundan-
cies, the following list mentions only peculiarities of these verbs, while all
traits that are analogous to the ones illustrated for drohen above, are left
out here. As Parameters 3 and 6 have already been treated, we concentrate
on the remaining ones.
As will be spelled in out in more detail in later chapters, versprechen
shows a high degree of grammaticalization and has been acknowledged to
function as an auxiliary.13
However, there are some aspects that prove that
– as compared to drohen – it displays a lower degree of grammaticalization
(for details see Section 6.4).
For Parameter 1 the situation is completely analogous to drohen – for
the semantic as well as the morphonological aspects (semantic attrition
from speech act verb to evidential marker, phonological indifference). The
same applies to Parameter 2. Like drohen the evidential variant has lost all
its combinatorial variability concerning the complement. As the range of
complements differs from that on lexical drohen, it is illustrated here for
lexical vs. grammatical(ized) versprechen by (24) and (25), respectively:
(24) a. Er verspricht (uns) (hoch und heilig), bei der Arbeit zu helfen.
‘He promises (us) (solemnly) to help us with the work tomorrow.’
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 117
b. Er verspricht (uns) Hilfe/, dass er helfen wird/, er werde helfen.
‘He promises (us) assistance/that he will help us/that he helps us.’
c. Er verspricht (uns) das/es.
‘He promises this to us.’
d. Das verspricht er (uns).
‘This he promises us.’
(25) a. Das Wetter verspricht (*uns) (*hoch und heilig) besser zu werden.
‘The weather promises (*us) (*solemnly) to get better.’
b. Das Wetter verspricht *Verbesserung/, *dass es besser wird/, *es
werde besser.
‘The weather promises *improvement/*that it will get better/*it
will get better.’
c. *Das Wetter verspricht das/es.
*‘The weather promises this/it.’
d. *Das verspricht es.
*‘This it promises.’
While the lexical reading of versprechen has several options with regard to
its complements – including an infinitival construction –, versprechen in
its evidential reading has lost the capacity to take different complements.
Parameter 4 shows the same as for drohen. As noted by Askedal (1997:
13), the extraposition of the infinitive complement of evidential verspre-
chen is not possible, see (26), whereas the infinitive complement of lexical
versprechen may be extrapositioned, as shown in (27). Due to this fact
versprechen (as well as drohen) is considered to be similar to the typical
auxiliary verbs in German.
(26) * …weil dieser Streit versprach, große Erfindungen hervorzurufen.
‘because this quarrel promised to evoke great inventions.’
(27) … weil er versprach, uns morgen zu helfen.
‘because he promised to help us tomorrow.’
Parameter 5 has in part been treated in Section 4.2.2 when discussing this
parameter for drohen. The following examples give an overview of the
reduced choices of inflectional forms in the more grammaticalized reading
of versprechen:
118 Grammar and grammaticalization
(28) a. *Das Wetter legt die Hoffnung nahe, besser zu werden zu verspre-
chen.
*‘The weather gives reasons to hope to promise to get better.’
b. *Das Wetter hat besser zu werden versprochen.
*‘The weather has promised to get better.’
c. *Das Wetter würde besser zu werden versprechen.
*‘The weather would promise to get better.’
d. *Oh Wetter, versprich besser zu werden!
*‘Oh, weather, promise to get better!’
e. *Vom Wetter wurde versprochen, besser zu werden
*‘It was promised by weather to get better.’
Evidential versprechen lacks a number of inflectional forms: it does not
have infinitive forms (a); it does not occur in periphrastic tense and mood
forms (b) - (c); it further lacks imperative forms (d) and passive forms (e).
If versprechen occurs in such forms, it can be taken on its lexical reading.
Hence evidential versprechen has to some extent lost its capacity to realize
“normal” inflectional categories of main verbs and functions as a grammat-
ical formative with its own inflectional paradigm. Thus we can postulate a
relatively high degree of grammaticalization of evidential versprechen, as
compared to its lexical counterpart.
Scheinen in constructions with zu-infinitive today is mostly (though not
exclusively) used in its evidential reading (for details see Section 6.3). This
construction is acknowledged to display a high degree of grammaticaliza-
tion. Many scholars have pointed out the intermediate status of scheinen
between main verb and auxiliary (e.g. Pafel 1989, Ebert 1976, Zifonun et
al. 1997, Askedal 1998, Diewald 2000, 2001). Askedal (1998: 70) treats
scheinen explicitly as an auxiliary, and calls it a “Modalitätsauxiliar der
epistemisch-futurischen Klasse 1 im deutschen Prädikatssyntagma” [‘mod-
al auxiliary of epistemic-future class 1 in German predicate syntagm’].
As regards Parameter 1, evidential scheinen does not show any loss in
phonological substance, but does show significant semantic attrition in
comparison to its lexical use. As an evidential auxiliary it only indicates
the fact that there is some accessible information (which may be of visual
or other origin) which is connected (via inference) to the described event.
This can be seen as a clear instance of desemanticization: neither the visual
nature of information source nor the fact of perceiving the described
event/object is a distinctive feature in the meaning of evidential scheinen.
What has remained in the semantics of the grammaticalized scheinen is the
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 119
relational meaning component, i.e. the relation between some information
source and the described situation.
As to Parameter 2, there are some important facts which point to the
high degree of grammaticalization of scheinen within infinitival construc-
tions. As Askedal (1998: 59f.) noted, the zu-infinitive complement of
scheinen cannot be replaced by any other constituent and cannot be pro-
nominalized by das ‘this’ or es ‘it’, cf.:
(29) a. Sie scheint allein zu leben.
‘She seems to live alone.’
b. *Sie scheint das/es.
*‘She seems that/it.’
c. *Das scheint sie.
*‘That/it[ACC] seems she.’
d. *Das scheint.
*‘That seems.’
e. *Diese Aussage scheint.
*‘This statement seems.’
As regards Parameter 4, evidential scheinen only appears in coherent con-
struction, i.e. displays increased boundedness in the sense explained above
(cf. Diewald 2000: 341, from where the following examples are taken).
(30) a. … dass sie alles selbst zu schreiben scheint.
‘… that she everything on her one to write seems.’
b. *… dass sie scheint, alles selbst zu schreiben.
*‘… that she seems, everything on her own to write.’
(31) a. … dass sie alles selbst zu schreiben wünscht/hofft/verspricht.
‘… that she everything on her own to write
wishes/hopes/promises.’
b. … dass sie wünscht/hofft/verspricht, alles selbst zu schreiben.
‘… that she wishes/hopes/promises to write everything on her
own.’
The infinitive construction with scheinen thus belongs into the class of
coherent infinitive constructions. The infinitive is part of the whole con-
struction which forms a linguistic unit, and for this reason the infinitive
complement cannot be extrapositioned as a separate constituent.
120 Grammar and grammaticalization
The Parameter 5 is to be treated analogously to the other verbs dis-
cussed so far, i.e. as far as the choice of a certain grammatical marker with-
in the German evidential paradigm is concerned, scheinen may be seen to
be used increasingly obligatorily. Further proof of the increasingly obliga-
tory status of evidential scheinen lies in the fact that it lacks a number of
inflectional forms which its lexical counterpart has. For instance, evidential
scheinen does not occur in periphrastic tense forms. Consider the following
examples which due to the periphrastic tense form (perfect) are restricted
to the lexical reading only:
(32) Und vielen hat es damals auch so geschienen. (DWDS, Gespro-
chene Sprache)
‘And at that time many people did have the same impression.’
Moreover, evidential scheinen does not occur itself as infinitive comple-
ment, while lexical scheinen does:
(33) Es mag dem Außenstehenden so scheinen, als wenn die Zahl dieser
Betriebe nicht so groß wäre, .... (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘The outsider may have the impression that the number of shops
might not be as big, ...’
As werden & infinitive is an acknowledged auxiliary verb in German, the
degree of grammaticalization of this construction is generally accepted to
be high. Still, for the sake of comprehensiveness, the following brief re-
marks point to some details in order for werden & infinitive to be com-
pared with the other evidential constructions. We do not deal with the
question of which category werden & infinitive belongs to here, i.e. we do
not answer the question whether it is a future marker, a modal marker or an
evidential. We just look at its degree of grammaticalization with respect to
the evidential paradigm we are assuming. Parameter 1 shows exactly the
same results as for the other evidential constructions, i.e. there is no phono-
logical reduction but heavy semantic reduction, the details of which will be
treated in Section 6.1. Therefore a few brief remarks will suffice here. The
lexical variant of werden exhibits strong aspectual – more precisely: in-
gressive – semantics. It denotes the initial phase, the onset of a state of
affairs. Lexical werden designates that an event has already started and is
developing further towards an intermediate or even final stage, cf.:
Grammaticalization parameters and German evidentials 121
(34) Unsere Beziehungen werden zu einer ständigen Gegebenheit der
internationalen politischen Landschaft. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Our relations become a permanent factor in the international poli-
tical landscape.’
As for werden within infinitive constructions, its ingressive semantics has
bleached to a large extent. Werden does not designate a change which hap-
pens to the subject of the sentence, nor does it denote an initial step of an
event. What has remained in the semantics of werden in constructions with
infinitive is a highly abstract relation between two points – information
source and the described event. As compared to the lexical variant of wer-
den which denotes an observable change towards a goal, the evidential
werden expresses neither a changing process from an old towards a new
state of affairs (which is/has been observed by the speaker) nor is this
process bounded in its onset. Instead, being an inferential evidential,
grammaticalized werden & infinitive introduces a situation as being in-
ferred by the speaker from known information.
As regards Parameter 2, the situation is similar to the other verbs. Lexi-
cal werden can take different constituents as complements, i.e. the valence
relations of lexical werden allow for connections with e.g. nominal and
pronominal objects with and without preposition, and with adjectives, cf.:
(35) a. Sie wird traurig/so/wie ihr Vater.
‘She becomes sad/like that/like her father.’
b. Sie wird Lehrerin/eine gute Lehrerin/zur Lehrerin/zu etwas/das.
‘She becomes a teacher/a good teacher/like a teacher/something/
that.’
c. Das Eis wird Wasser/zu Wasser.
‘The ice turns into water.’
d. Das wird sie/er.
‘That becomes she/he.’
None of the sentences in (35) can be given a grammatical reading. Gram-
matical werden does not permit such a variety of complements: it combines
only with infinitive complements and together with them forms one consti-
tuent. The following paraphrases show that the infinitive complement can-
not be replaced by any other constituents and cannot usually be pronomina-
lized by das ‘this’ or es ‘it’ either:
122 Grammar and grammaticalization
(36) a. Sie wird das Buch lesen.
‘She will be reading/read the book.’
b. *Sie wird das/es.
*‘She will this/it.’
c. *Das wird sie.
*‘This will she.’
d. *Das wird.
*‘This will.’
Parameter 4 for werden is analogous to the other evidentials verbs. First,
lexical as well as grammaticalized werden occur as free morphemes, and
second, grammaticalized uses of werden imply coherent constructions on-
ly, thus pointing to an increased amount of bondedness. As regards Para-
meter 5, the two variants of werden exhibit some crucial differences. Lexi-
cal werden can be used in all possible inflectional forms. The inflectional
spectrum of evidential werden, on the contrary, is restricted to present
tense and to the würde-form, which is morphologically the preterite sub-
junctive of werden.
3. Summary
The application of the grammaticalization parameters has proved that all
four evidential constructions, i.e. drohen/versprechen/scheinen & zu-
infinitive and werden & infinitive, display a high degree of grammaticali-
zation as compared to their other usages. This could be shown in particular
by their respective reactions to grammaticalization parameters 1 (as far as
semantic change is concerned), 2, 3, 4, and 5. Only Parameter 6 – expec-
tedly – did not produce relevant results here, nor did Parameter 1 as far as
phonetic reduction is concerned. Figure 2 gives an overview of these find-
ings.
Summary 123
Grammaticalization
parameter
and
diachronic
process
involved
drohen
versprechen
scheinen
werden
(1a)
integrity
(–)
phonetic
attrition
not
(yet)
distinctive
between
lexical
and
more
grammaticalized
variants
of
all
four
verbs
(1b)
integrity
(–)
semantic
attrition=
desemanticization
high
degree
of
semantic
attrition
in
grammaticalized
variant:
loss
of
intentional
semantics
and
of
speech
act
component
loss
of
intentional
semantics
and
of
speech
act
component;
however,
still
particular
semantic
restrictions
as
opposed
to
drohen
loss
of
visual
semantics
loss
of
ingressive
semantics
(2)
structural
scope
=
syntag-
matic
weight
(–)
condensation
significant
condensation
(loss
of
structural
scope)
in
grammaticalized
variants
of
all
four
verbs,
which
have
developed
into
auxiliaries
combined
with
an
infinitive
(depending
on
the
item
concerned
with
or
without
zu)
(3)
paradigmaticity
(+)
paradigmaticization
high
degree
of
paradigmaticization
between
the
four
constructions,
which
form
a
paradigm
of
inferential
evidential
values
(4)
bondedness
(+)
coalescence
high
degree
of
bondedness
(coalescence)
in
grammaticalized
variant:
only
coherent
infinitive
construction
(no
morphological
fusion,
though)
(5)
paradigmatic
variability
(–)
obligatorification
certain
degree
of
reduction
of
paradigmatic
variability
and
thus,
a
certain
degree
of
obligatorification
(6)
syntagmatic
variability
(–)
fixation
fixation
is
not
distinctive
between
lexical
and
more
grammaticalized
variants
of
all
four
verbs
for
typological
reasons
(fixed
position
of
verbal
elements
in
German
sentence
structure)
Figure
2.
Degrees
of
grammaticalization
of
the
four
evidential
constructions
(according
to
Lehmann
1985:
306)
Chapter 5
Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
This chapter is devoted to the dynamic, procedural aspects of grammatica-
lization. It takes up questions concerning semantic and functional change
(see Section 5.1), the problems of polysemy (see Section 5.2) and, in Sec-
tion 5.3, focuses on contextual and constructional factors in grammaticali-
zation processes, thereby, though only in passing, taking into account re-
cent developments in construction grammar.
1. Regularities in semantic and functional changes
Grammaticalization studies have elaborated several regularities concerning
semantic and functional changes that are typically found in grammaticali-
zation processes. The ones important to our topic are the following three
developmental tendencies:
1. metaphorization and metonymization scales,
2. the tendencies of scheme retention elaborated by Sweetser (1988,
1990), and
3. the model of successive semantic-functional stages suggested by
Traugott (1989) and Traugott and Dasher (2002).
They are described in the order given above in the following three sections.
1.1. Metaphorization and metonymization scales
One of the best investigated topics in semantic change accompanying gram-
maticalization is the relative chronology of metaphorical and metonymic
reinterpretation, which is understood as a cognitive process based on the
construal of similarity or contiguity respectively. There is no room here to
discuss the commonalities and differences of metaphorization versus meto-
nymization (cf. Diewald 1997). Instead, it is taken for granted that both proc-
esses work in an analogous way in grammaticalization processes and, there-
fore, for the purpose of this study, need not be explicitly distinguished.
Regularities in semantic and functional changes 125
As Heine, Claudi and Hünnemeyer (1991) have shown, a large percen-
tage of the semantic changes accompanying grammaticalization processes
can be described in terms of successive metaphorization procedures which,
in accordance with general cognitive principles, unidirectionally evolve
from local and/or concrete to temporal to more abstract meanings. The
following is a simplified metaphorization scale encompassing the basic
semantic-cognitive domains:1
local/concrete > temporal > abstract (e.g. causal, adversative, copulative)
Conceived in this way in broad and general terms for the respective cogni-
tive domains, the metaphorization scale – with suitable adaptations and
refinements – has been shown to underlie many different instances of
grammaticalization cross-linguistically, e.g. the English going-to future,
French sentence negation, case marking systems in several languages, epis-
temic meanings in modal verbs etc. (cf. e.g. Heine, Claudi and Hünnemey-
er 1991, Stolz and Jeßing 1994, Heine and Kuteva 2002).
A quite straightforward example of the operation of the metaphorization
scale, which demonstrates one way of concretisation of the abstract scale,
is the semantic development of the German conjunction aber. Its origin lies
in the comparative form of an adverb meaning ‘farther way’, which, in
addition to its use as a local preposition meaning ‘behind’ in Gothic (afar),
also developed the temporal meaning ‘after that’, ‘later’ (DWB; Paul and
Henne 1992). In OHG, the adverb afur/abur had the temporal meaning of
‘after that’, ‘later’, and later developed the more abstract, iterative meaning
of ‘again’, ‘once more’. In the following example from the 9th
century, the
adverbial abur is ambiguous between the temporal and the iterative read-
ing, and also supports a reading that merges the temporal and iterative
meaning to ‘later again’:
(1) giuuelîh dê dar trinket fon uuazzare thesemo, thurstit inan abur.
(Tatian 87,4)
Lat. : omnis qui bibet ex aqua hac sitiet iterum.
‘Whoever drinks from this water will be thirsty later again.’
The iterative meanings of aber, which developed an attenuated copulative
meaning, persisted up to the 18th
century. Today, it is found in fossilized
and idiomatic uses such as aber und abermals (‘again and again’) or aber-
tausend (‘thousands and thousands of’).
126 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
The next step, which already started in OHG, was the rise of an adver-
sative meaning (‘however’, ‘yet’). The adverb abur in (2) exemplifies this:
(2) Ther geist giuueso funs ist, thaz fleisc ist abur ummahtîc. (Tatian
181,6)
Lat.: Spiritus quidem promptus est, caro autem infirma.
‘The spirit indeed is ready, the flesh, however, is weak.’
This adversative meaning is the dominant meaning of aber in PDG. It is
present in all its uses, but owing to functional differentiation (and contex-
tual influences) it appears attenuated or modified towards only mildly ad-
versative or even copulative meanings in many instances. Thus, even in
this abbreviated diachronic sketch, it can be seen that the semantic devel-
opment of aber is a specification of the metaphorization scale given above.
Table 1. Metaphorization of German aber
local/concrete > temporal > abstract
‘farther away’/ ‘later’/‘again’ ‘adversative’/
‘behind’ ‘juxtaposition’/
‘copulative’
Analogous scales of semantic development may be set up for the four
German evidential constructions treated here. The proof for these paths
will be given in later chapters using diachronic corpus data (see Chapter 8).
Here, it may suffice to illustrate that the semantic development of the verb
drohen is in line with the scale of abstraction described above.
In OHG and MHG drohen was a speech act verb, and this meaning va-
riant of drohen has been preserved till now. It denotes the declaration of an
intention (of someone) to do something unpleasant to someone else (mostly
the addressee). In contrast to versprechen, drohen has speech act meaning
but is not used performatively:
(3) Alse er daz gehôrte, daz si im drouten, dô sprach Pylatus. (Frau
Ava, Leben Jesu, 10568, KALI-Corpus)
‘After he had heard that they threatened him, Pilatus said.’
In this meaning, drohen refers to a speech act being performed by the sub-
ject of the sentence, whereby the subject is always a human referent. This
human referent (the agent of the threatening act) predicts that something
unpleasant for the recipient will happen as a result of his intervention if the
Regularities in semantic and functional changes 127
recipient does not comply with certain conditions intended by the threaten-
ing person. The latter one is normally able to carry out the intended action
that is unpleasant in some way.
In the course of the grammaticalization process, the meaning of drohen
became more abstract: it gradually changed from denoting a particular type
of a speech act towards expressing a more abstract notion of a threat. This
shift in meaning most probably happened as a result of metaphorical trans-
fer, namely via the process of personification, i.e. the use of non-human
subjects with verbs that usually allow human subjects only. Thus via the
feature [+human] that is inherent in the verb, the personification of the
non-human subject is provoked. Drohen began to be used with non-human
subject referents, whereby the overall situation introduced with drohen was
given the status of a threat, or more generally: the status of a dangerous
situation.
(4) Wie köndte man der Uns drohenden dienstbarkeit nachdenckli-
chere zeichen finden? (BA Leib 1)
‘How might it be possible to find more ominous signs of the sub-
servience threatening us.’
In this example, the abstract noun dienstbarkeit ‘subservience’ constitutes
the entity emitting a threat, which is perceived by the recipients of that
threat (uns ‘us’) via ‘ominous signs’. This development towards a more
abstract meaning due to stereotypical and frequent personification of ab-
stract concepts started in the ENHG period and continued until the 18th
century, when the non-agentive variant of drohen (implying a non-
intentional subject) established itself as an independent lexical variant of
the verb.
Finally, in the 18th
and 19th
centuries, an even more abstract meaning of
drohen – the inferential evidential meaning – developed, but this was re-
stricted to the construction type drohen & zu-infinitive exclusively. The
inferential evidential meaning can be described as the expression of a par-
ticular mental state of the speaker. The evidential variant of drohen means
that (i) the speaker has access to some information, which (ii) s/he inter-
prets as pointing towards the described event (which is negatively eva-
luated by the speaker). Thus the speaker’s mental operation of inference
has become the primary meaning of the grammaticalized verb drohen.
(5) Nach einem so langen Glücke, nach einer so glänzenden Reihe von
Siegen, nach so herrlichen Eroberungen, nach so viel unnütz vers-
128 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
pritztem Blute sieht sich der österreichische Monarch zum zwei-
tenmal an denselben Abgrund geführt, in den er beim Antritt seiner
Regierung zu stürzen drohte. (Schiller, Geschichte des 30jährigen
Krieges, DE-Gutenberg)
‘... for the second time, the Austrian monarch finds himself led to
the very same abyss into which he threatened to fall at the acces-
sion of his rule.’
The semantic development of the verb drohen from denoting a speech act
(performed by the subject of the sentence) to referring to a particular men-
tal state/operation (of the speaker) constitutes a particular realization of the
metaphorization scale, and may be summarized as follows (for further de-
tails, see Chapter 9):
Table 2. Metaphorization of drohen
concrete action/speech act > psychophysical observation > mental state
‘declaration of an intention ‘designation of an observable ‘marking of
to do something undesirable’ undesirable situation (perceptual)
(caused by something)’ inferential
evidentiality’
In the following chapters it will be shown that the other evidential con-
structions display a similar semantic development. Therefore, we may sum
up this section by stating that, in the development of the German evidential
constructions, the general developmental tendency, referred to as metapho-
rization and metonymization scales above, has played a very prominent
role.
1.2. Scheme retention and reinterpretation
The grammaticalization parameters discussed in Section 4.2 aim at bring-
ing out the differences between two comparanda, thus attesting different
degrees of grammaticalization. However, as grammaticalization is a grad-
ual phenomenon, there must be some aspects linking the different stages,
i.e. some kind of common denominator that remains stable from the source
entity through all stages up to the grammaticalized functions. This common
denominator is seen here as an abstract semantic structure, a relational
template which will be specified in this section.
Regularities in semantic and functional changes 129
It is assumed that this basic concept is responsible for the “conserva-
tive” aspects of the diachronic processes involved in grammaticalization.
Without this common denominator it would be impossible to account for
the existence of ambiguous instances and borderline cases, or for the pos-
sibility of gradual development through time.
Sweetser (1988, 1990), who also works with metaphorization chains,
claims that in grammaticalization processes, we can make out a basic se-
mantic template, which Sweetser calls ‘image scheme’, that is retained in
its fundamental relational structure through all developmental stages. In the
course of semantic change, this relational template in its fundamental rela-
tional aspects is successively transferred to different semantic domains.
The domains are characterized, on the one hand, by increasing abstraction,
but, on the other hand, also provide new semantic features that had not
been present before.
As an example, Sweetser invokes the development of the be-going-to
future in English, arguing that while lexically rich features are bleached
(e.g. the notion of movement on foot which typically is part of the verb
go), the relevant diagrammatic, i.e. relational feature, is kept in all uses,
and is employed via the space-to-time-metaphor in the new domain of tem-
poral meaning. This is made quite clear in the following quote referring to
the be-going-to construction.
In this mapping, we lose the sense of physical motion (together with its like-
ly background inferences). We gain, however, a new meaning of future pre-
diction or intention - together with its likely background inferences. We thus
cannot be said to have merely “lost” meaning; we have, rather, exchanged
the embedding of this image-schema in a concrete, spatial domain of mean-
ing for its embedding in a more abstract and possibly more subjective do-
main. (Sweetser 1988: 392)
Sweetser’s model has been successfully deployed in the investigation of
various grammaticalization processes in German (cf. Diewald 1999b for
modal verbs; Diewald 2006 for modal particles; Smirnova 2006 for the
verb würde).
As will be shown in Chapter 8 in greater detail, German evidentials,
too, develop along the reinterpretation and abstraction of a relational se-
mantic template. In advanced stages of grammaticalization, this develop-
ment results in the indexical-grammatical interpretation of that template.
To give a rough idea of this process, the development of drohen is used
here again for illustration.
130 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
Though the details of the semantic development of drohen will be
treated only later (see Section 8.3) we can note in passing that Sweetser’s
postulate is relevant here as well. We observe the retention of a relational
template consisting of a vectored relation between a source, a path, and a
goal as inherent semantic features of the verb drohen (compare Section 1.2
for a discussion of the inherent relational structure of deictic signs). This
inherent relational template may be sketched as follows:
source > path > goal
This relational structure originally applied to the concrete domain of the
speech act meaning of drohen, and in the course of the diachronic devel-
opment was transferred to successively more abstract domains expressing
temporal, aspectual, and logical relations. Thereby, i.e. in all later stages,
the basic relational scheme was retained.
The original lexical verb drohen indicates a communicative act per-
formed by a human subject that functions as a source entity in the relation-
al scheme above. Usually, the content of the threat, which takes over the
position of the goal in the semantic relational template, is explicitly present
in the sentence (by means of infinitive complements, direct or indirect
speech clauses, prepositional complements with mit, rarely also via an ac-
cusative object), or it can be easily reconstructed from the context. This
prototypical semantics of lexical drohen may be visualized in the following
abstract relational template:
Table 3. Relational template of lexical drohen
source > path > goal
human subject > drohen > propositional content of the threat
Sie drohte die Polizei zu rufen
She threatened to call the police
The same semantic relational template with three basic positions underlies
the non-agentive variant of the verb drohen that denotes an observable
negatively evaluated situation. The original abstract scheme remains un-
changed; the individual positions are transferred to another semantic do-
main and thus are taken over by other entities (see Table 4).
The position of the starting point, or source, is represented by the sub-
ject of the sentence, which – as opposed to the original lexical meaning of
drohen – is mostly an inanimate entity. The verbal relation, i.e., the posi-
tion of a path, is no longer restricted to a verbal announcement, i.e., a
Regularities in semantic and functional changes 131
speech act, but is transferred to an (observable) threat emanating from the
source entity. The goal position has remained roughly the same and marks
the propositional content of the threating situation.
Table 4. Relational template of non-agentive lexical drohen
source > path > goal
some entity > drohen > propositional content of the threatening situation
Die Mauern drohten den Einsturz
The walls threatened collapsing
As regards the evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive, the same
abstract relational scheme may be used as a base. The abstract positions in
the scheme are once again transferred to another domain and are now rea-
lized as follows.
The source position, i.e. the entity to which the construction drohen &
zu-infinitive links the described event, is now reinterpreted as the speaker’s
information source. The relational component (‘path’), which holds be-
tween the source and the goal position, can now be described as the desig-
nation of the speaker’s inference process. The goal position is taken by the
proposition, which is modified by the evidential value expressed by dro-
hen.
Hence, two significant changes may be stated that occur in the semantic
relational template of drohen in the course of its grammaticalization to-
wards an evidential auxiliary. First, the position of the source has been
externalized, i.e., it has been transferred from the textual plane to the layer
of the speech event and now comprises the information pieces available to
the speaker. Second, the position of the goal has been widened and consists
now of the whole proposition. Drohen thus modifies the whole proposition
by anchoring it in the actual deictic field (i.e., the origo cf. Sections 1.1.2
and 2.2). This reinterpreted relational structure of the evidential construc-
tion drohen & zu-infinitive may be represented as follows:
Table 5. Relational template of evidential drohen
source > path > goal
(speaker’s) information > [drohen > proposition]
Hence, for the inferential evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive,
we can state that the abstract relational scheme of the lexical verb drohen
has been preserved, which will also be shown for the verbs werden, schei-
nen and versprechen in the next sections.
132 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
The concrete linguistic realization and semantic content of the positions
have changed, however: they have been transferred to other domains. Table
6 summarizes the three developmental stages sketched above and specifies
the relevant domains.
Table 6. The abstract relational template of drohen in different domains
Domain 1
concrete level: performative situation/speech act
source (human subject of sentence) > path > goal
Domain 2
abstraction from human sphere to non-human, mostly abstract entities:
personification
source (non-human abstract entity) > path > goal
Domain 3
deictic anchoring in speaker: evidential meaning
source (speaker’s information) > path > goal
1.3. Successive semantic-functional stages
The concept of cognitively motivated chronological ordering of metaphori-
zation and metonymization processes and the principle of scheme retention
are supplemented here by the model of successive semantic-functional
stages suggested by Traugott (1989) and developed further by Traugott and
Dasher (2002). Traugott’s well-known findings on general tendencies of
semantic change (accompanying grammaticalization) have been demon-
strated to be relevant for many categories in a number of languages. In the
original version, Traugott (1989) postulates three diachronic tendencies,
which she describes as follows:
Tendency I:
Meanings based in the external described situation > meanings based in the
internal (evaluative/perceptual/cognitive) described situation.
Tendency II:
Meanings based in the external or internal described situation > meanings
based in the textual and metalinguistic situation.
Tendency III:
Meanings tend to become increasingly based in the speaker’s subjective be-
lief state/attitude toward the proposition.
(Traugott 1989: 34-35)
Regularities in semantic and functional changes 133
In subsequent studies (Traugott 1995/1997, 1999, Traugott and Dasher
2002) this model was expanded, refined and generalized in order to ac-
count for as many instances of semantic change as possible. The modifica-
tions concern, first, the notion of subjectification, which has been comple-
mented by the notion of “intersubjectification” in order to account for
social deixis (Traugott and Dasher 2002: 23f.). Second, possibly concomi-
tant structural changes have been integrated, especially the change of scope
and topological features in the development of discourse markers (Traugott
1999: 177ff., Traugott 1995/1997). Both the chronological ordering of the
three stages and the description of the respective semantic and cognitive
domains have been retained in its essence. Therefore, we refer to the origi-
nal version of the three tendencies of semantic change accompanying
grammaticalization, leaving aside the notion of intersubjectification.
In addition to the phenomena emphasized by Traugott, we argue that
beyond the change in the semantic domains involved these tendencies indi-
cate a functional change concerning the semiotic status of the item in ques-
tion (including word class variation). In our view, it is this change of semi-
otic status which is the essence of grammaticalization.
The development runs from mainly referential to mainly textual and
connective functions, and further evolves to indexical grammatical func-
tions.2
Therefore, we use Traugott’s model with some shifts of focus and
adaptations (e.g. merging the external and internal situation into one func-
tion, i.e. into the ‘referential function’). The development, as we under-
stand it, may be sketched as follows:
(i) (self-contained) referential function >
(ii) text-integrative/connective function >
(iii) indexical-grammatical function
That is, we postulate that the last stage in Traugott’s model coincides with
what we described as one of the defining features of grammatical signs,
i.e., their indexical potential (see Sections 1.1.2 and 2.2). In Section 2.2 we
have already indicated to what extent the evidentials are indexical signs. In
what follows we give an example of the developmental stages elaborated
here using the verb drohen as an exemplary case again.
The original lexical verb drohen serves to announce an event which is
intended by the (human) subject. That means that drohen introduces a con-
nection between two events, i.e., between the announcement itself (i.e., the
act of speaking) and the announced action (i.e., the content of the threat):
134 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
(6) … gab die feurige Eleonora endlich selbst Gelegenheit, daß ich
meine hefftigen Seuffzer und Klagen kniend vor derselben ausstieß,
und mich selbst zu erstechen drohete, woferne… (Schna4)
‚… finally, passionate Eleonora herself gave me a chance to kneel
down in front of her and heave my heavy sighs and complaints, and
I threatened to stab myself, if …’
At the second stage (from the ENHG period onward), especially in specific
contextual configurations, i.e. in combination with accusative objects or
with infinitive complements, the verb comes to mark a successive relation-
ship between two situations. The speech act semantics of drohen is already
largely bleached and only the relational connection between textually
represented situations is promoted, whereby the event introduced by dro-
hen is conceptualized as following others. In these particular contexts,
drohen receives a kind of temporal-aspectual interpretation without being a
grammaticalized marker.
(7) Spuren der Plünderung ließen sich bemerken in Gefolg innerer
Feindschaft. hohe Mauern drohten den Einsturz, Türme standen
unsicher. (IDS-Corpora, GOE/AGA.01784)
‘Traces of the looting could be noticed togehter with internal ani-
mosity: high walls threatened the collapse/to collapse, towers stood
insecure.’
This passage puts three events/states into chronological perspective, which
are however expressed in a condensed way (partly using nominalizations).
The first event – the looting – leads to the state where traces of the former
event may be relized (Spuren ... ließen sich bemerken). One of these traces
is the reference to an imminent third event/state, namely the collapse of the
walls, which is expressed in a pseudo-transitive construction using drohen
with the inanimate subject Mauern and the accusative object Einsturz,
which is a nominalization refering to the imminent event.
Finally, the textually represented connection between the relevant situa-
tions changes into a meaning that is close to the final inferential evidential
meaning, indicating that there is a logical connection between events one
of which is conceived of as evidence for another. This ongoing develop-
ment can be witnessed in PDG:
Regularities in semantic and functional changes 135
(8) Wenn man also merkt, daß eine Diskussion (etwa über Politik) in
einen Streit auszuarten droht… (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘This means that as soon as you realize that a discussion (say about
politics) threatens to turn into a quarrel …’
Here, there in no longer an explicit reference to an initiating event, instead
the passage refers to a cognitive act of the subject, i.e an act of gathering
evidence (Wenn man also merkt) for a situation which is about to evolve in
a foreseeable direction (in einen Streit auszuarten droht).
The evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive serves indexical-
grammatical functions. Thus we can state that, during its grammaticaliza-
tion process, drohen has followed the developmental path formulated
above. This development concerns different aspects of the linguistic status
of drohen, as shown below:
Table 7. Changes at different levels (as regards drohen)
functional level:
referential function > text-connective function > indexical-grammatical function
word class:
(agentive) lexical verb > (non-agentive) lexical verb > auxiliary for the verbal cate-
gory of evidentiality
semantics:
concrete action of subject > observation of imminent change > mental operation ex-
pressing information source (inferential evidential)
In summary, we have argued that the diachronic development of German
evidentials, exemplified here by the development of the verb drohen, can
be ascribed to the interplay of general grammaticalization scales concern-
ing the semantic development, the functional development, and the inhe-
rent semantic core structure of the item in question. The core structure
remains stable in its essence, but is reinterpreted for its broad semantic or
functional domains, which become more and more abstract, less referen-
tial, and more grammatical. This semantic change, or more precisely the
shift of a core structure to various domains, is accompanied by a functional
change corresponding to the general tendencies set up by Traugott.
136 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
2. Dealing with ambiguity and context dependence
Grammaticalization typically is associated with semantic change, and se-
mantic change by definition raises the question of gradualness and ambigu-
ity. In order to deal with this pervasive semantic indeterminacy, we need to
define some central concepts which we will use in order to describe mean-
ing components and semantic change.
Ambiguity. The term ambiguity is used here in its general meaning re-
ferring to any kind of unclear, indeterminate linguistic item, and not as a
term for a special sub-type of functional and/or semantic underdetermina-
tion. That is to say that the term ambiguity covers structural ambiguity as
well as semantic ambiguity. Furthermore, it should be noted that semantic
ambiguity as we use the term here is synonymous to “(semantic) vague-
ness”, which, too, is a common way of referring to this phenomenon in
literature.
Context dependence. Analogous to “ambiguity”, we use the term “con-
text dependence” as a general notion which is relevant for the resolution of
any kind of semantic indeterminacy, i.e. the linguistic and non-linguistic
context is the decisive factor in the resolution of all of the variants of am-
biguity described below, i.e. of heterosemy, polysemy, gradience as well as
conversational implicature. Only the degrees of the impact of contextual
clues as well as the types of contexts differ and thus provide criteria for
distinguishing between the respective types of ambiguity.
Heterosemy. Heterosemy as opposed to polysemy refers to the existence
of distinct meanings in a linguistic item, which are associated with differ-
ent word classes (Diewald 2006, Autenrieth 2002). Heterosemy typically is
the outcome of an advanced stage in a grammaticalization process, when a
lexical (i.e. functional) split has taken place and the grammaticalizing item
(one of the heterosemes) has been at least partially integrated into its new
grammatical paradigm (i.e. it is associated with Stage 4 of the grammatica-
lization scenario, cf. Section 5.3). Most important for the reconstruction of
the diachronic development is the fact that the functional spectra of the
coexisting heterosemes, though seemingly unrelated in a purely synchronic
perspective, retain the successive gradient steps of regular grammaticaliza-
tion. This situation can be easily illustrated by the class of particles in
German, which, as is well-known, often have functionally defined ‘hetero-
semes’ in other word classes. For example, aber ‘but’ can be used as a
discourse particle as in (9), as a modal particle as in (10), and as a conjunc-
tion as in (11):
Dealing with ambiguity and context dependence 137
(9) K: und das wird dann da so seitlich draufgeschraubt oder?
K :‘and that’s going to be screwed there to the side this way, isn’t
it?
I: ja genau, aber mach das erstmal so.
I : ‘yes exactly, ABER do it this way first.’ (Sagerer et al. 1994, cf.
Diewald and Fischer 1998)
Aber in (9) operates on the thematic plane of discourse. After the first in-
terlocutor K has asked for the next step in constructing a toy airplane, the
second interlocutor I uses aber to relate his utterance to the preceding ut-
terance of the partner and simultaneously to indicate that he or she wants to
change the topic (Diewald and Fischer 1998: 87). Example (10) shows the
classic use of aber as a modal particle, where the utterance takes up a given
proposition and modifies it in an adversative manner.
(10) Das ist aber keine gute Idee.
‘That is ABER not a good idea.’
In (11) finally the conjunctional use of aber has the function of connecting
two linguistically expressed propositions and of integrating them into one
complex sentence.
(11) Sie wollte telefonieren, aber sie hatte kein Netz.
‘She wanted to make a call, but she didn’t get a signal.’
These uses of the linguistic item aber belong to different word classes in
PDG and therefore are classified as heterosemes (cf. Diewald 2006). While
the status of particles like aber above as heterosemes is fairly uncontrover-
sial, matters become more complicated when we look at verbs and their
auxiliarized cognates, like e.g. haben ‘have’ in German; which has a range
of usages in PDG, among them the full verb use (12) and the use as a per-
fect auxiliary (13):
(12) Ich habe mindestens zehn Stadtführer von Berlin.
‘I have at least ten tourist guides to Berlin.’
(13) Ich habe die Reise nach Berlin gebucht.
‘I have booked the trip to Berlin.’
138 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
Though it is quite unproblematic to talk about heterosemy for these two
types of usage of haben, there are others, where it becomes difficult to
establish a clear-cut change of word classes, so that the distinction between
heterosemy and polysemy blurs. These are cases like the so-called modal
periphrastic use of haben & zu-infinitive like in:
(14) Ich habe zehn Pferde zu versorgen.
‘I have ten horses to attend to.’
This usage of haben & zu-infinitive is clearly different in meaning from the
full verb usage of haben; still, most linguists would not want to state a
difference in word class here, and rather classify this case as polysemy of
the lexical entity haben.
Polysemy. As has already become clear, we speak of polysemy (or poly-
semous signs), if the following conditions are met (cf. also Fischer 2006):
1. there are distinct meanings in one single, phonological/orthographic
form,
2. these meanings are closely related, and
3. they do not correlate with a change in word class.
Coates (1983: 10) lists three criteria, which can be used in practice as a
polysemy test for a particular linguistic item. According to her, semantic
ambiguity in an item – which per definition must have at least two readings
– is to be classified as a case of polysemy, if:3
1. the two readings appear in different linguistic contexts;
2. the two readings need different semantic paraphrases;
3. there are ambiguous cases, i.e. sentences which allow one or the other
reading.
The employment of this test can be illustrated with the German modals.
They display polysemy in the sense explained in examples like the follow-
ing:
(15) Sie muss in die Schule gehen.
‘She must go to school.’
Dealing with ambiguity and context dependence 139
The modal muss in this sentence can receive either a deontic interpretation,
as in (15a), or an epistemic reading as in (15b):
(15) a. Sie ist genötigt in die Schule zu gehen.
‘She is forced/obliged to go to school.’
b. Sie geht bestimmt/sicher/wahrscheinlich in die Schule.
‘She probably/certainly goes to school.’
Both meanings, the deontic meaning of obligation and the epistemic mean-
ing of a high degree of probability of the proposition to be factual, clearly
fulfill condition two above: they call for different paraphrases, i.e. they are
clearly distinct and discernible meanings. The recipient has to make a deci-
sion in interpreting this sentence: s/he chooses one of the two possible
meanings, and even if s/he cannot make up his or her mind, s/he can define
these two meanings as alternatively possible (Criterion 3). That is, this is a
clear case of polysemy, whereby, usually, the further context helps to make
a definite choice between the two readings (cf. Coates 1983: 15f.). It is
important to note that ambiguity of this type, which leads to two distinct
options in an either-or-decision in one context – is an excellent indicator
that both meanings are indeed independent meanings, i.e. that the item in
question is truly polysemous. Therefore, this is an important feature in the
polysemy test.
For investigations into degrees of grammaticalization, which is always
associated with meaning change and thus ambiguity, Criterion 1 receives
additional importance. As will be explained in Section 5.3 the existence of
mutually exclusive linguistic contexts for one or the other reading (isolat-
ing contexts) is a decisive step towards isolating the new, more grammati-
cal meaning of the relevant item as a distinct, independent reading. Again,
another well-known example for context-dependent distinct readings in
modal verbs may help to make this point. While (16) illustrates the isolat-
ing context for the lexical (dispositonal) reading of müssen, (17) illustrates
the isolating context for the epistemic or deictic reading of müssen, i.e. as a
grammaticalized marker of a factuality judgement.
(16) Sie muss lachen, wenn er seinen Fahrradhelm auf hat.
‘She can’t help laughing, when he wears his cycling helmet.’
(17) Sie muss als letzte im Raum gewesen sein.
‘She must have been the last person in the room.’
140 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
The exact morpho-syntactic and semantic features of these two isolating
contexts will be explained later. Here, it suffices to note that there are lin-
guistic contexts which favor one of the alternative readings respectively to
the exclusion of the other one, which means that Coates’ Criterion 1 is
fulfilled and we have an instance of polysemy here.
Gradience. Beside polysemy, there is a further case of semantic inde-
terminateness, which, following Coates (1983: 13), we call “gradience”.
Here, several meanings in one item shade into each other, i.e. they may be
activated at the same time, without excluding each other. As Coates
(1983:12) points out, this phenomenon can be described by using the con-
cept of gradient membership of prototype theory. We speak of gradient
membership when one element at the same time belongs to more than one
category (to diverging degrees). Coates illustrated this with some of the
meanings of English can, as in the following sentences (1983: 14f.):
(18) I can only type very slowly as I am quite a beginner. (‘ability’)
(19) These young assistants [...] can give the pupils valuable practice in
understanding and speaking the foreign language. (gradience bet-
ween ‘ability’ and ‘possibility’)
(20) You can’t see him because he’s having lunch with a publisher.
(‘possibility’)
The meaning ‘ability’ in (18) is characterized by the fact that the subject’s
potential to act is determined by inherent properties, and that the main verb
of the sentence is an action verb. The ‘possibility’ reading in (20) is high-
lighted when external enabling circumstances are present. The many inter-
mediate cases between ‘ability’ and ‘possibility’, which are illustrated by
sentence (19), are characterized by the fact that it is difficult or impossible
to decide whether or not the enabling factor is inherent or whether there is
a combination of internal and external enabling factors. That is, the fea-
tures may combine without contradiction. The recipient need not or cannot
decide between alternatives which means that if there are only gradient
meanings in one item the notion of polysemy may not even come up in that
case, as speakers are only aware of mutually compatible nuances. In con-
texts of semantic change gradience may be the trigger for a development
towards polysemy in an item.
Diewald (1999: 71) shows that an analogous scale of gradience is found
in the German modal kann. As we will see in the empirical chapters of this
book, this type of semantic vagueness does play an important role in the
Dealing with ambiguity and context dependence 141
development of evidential meanings as well. It is in particular in the begin-
ning of a process of semantic change that gradience – i.e. low-level differ-
ence in meaning – plays an important role as a kind of trigger for further,
more salient meaning changes. In any case, we subscribe to Coates’ sum-
mary of her study on the meaning of English modals that “a correct de-
scription of modal meaning must reconcile categorial and non-categorial
approaches” (1983: 10) as an insight which may be generalized to other
instances of semantic change accompanying grammaticalization.
Conversational implicature. With reference to Grice (1975/1989), who
first introduced the concept of conversational implicature into linguistics
and also showed its impact on semantic change, we define this process as a
pragmatic procedure undertaken by the partners of the communicative ex-
change attributing meaning to a linguistic construction which does not
have this meaning potential inherent in itself. This procedure may be em-
ployed for example, if the “literal” meaning of an utterance is irrelevant,
uninformative or for any other reason calls for additional processing. Con-
versational implicatures are not (yet) a particular type of linguistic meaning
(meaning of a linguistic item), but meaning achieved by pragmatic enrich-
ment (cf. Traugott and König 1991).
Conversational implicature may be applied to resolve any kind of se-
mantic ambiguity. Again, the German modals provide fine examples here.
In particular sentences with a generic or indefinite animate subject easily
lead to semantic ambiguity correlated with scope ambiguity (see also Ga-
mon 1993). (21) gives an example:
(21) Das muss man alles erst mal wissen.
that-ACC must one-NOM all-ACC first know
narrow scope, lexical: ‘You have got to realize all that first.’
wide scope, lexical: ‘It is necessary: you realize all that first.’
For a sentence like (21) there are contexts that allow a narrow-scope read-
ing as well as a wide-scope lexical reading. While the narrow-scope read-
ing encodes an obligation for the subject man to acquire a certain state of
knowledge, the wide-scope reading expresses the general necessity that the
proposition ‘Man weiss das alles erst mal’ is true.
For the present study it must be borne in mind that while the tests for
polysemy usually lead to a distinct periphrasis for each meaning, there are
cases where the distinction between true polysemy and conversational im-
plicature blurs. This problem is solved here not by deciding once and for all
which usage falls under the heading of polysemy and which under the head-
142 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
ing of contextually triggered enrichment, but by providing a unified descrip-
tive template that incorporates all information relevant for a particular inter-
pretation. This seems to be a reasonable solution in the light of the following
facts, some of which have been mentioned before:
− the answer to the question of whether one usage is merely pragmatically
triggered or should instead be regarded as an independent and distinct
meaning inherent in the semantic make-up of the lexeme depends, among
other factors, on frequency, stereotypicality, and register, which have to
be explored for every item via more comprehensive empirical data;
− because diachronic change is ubiquitous and pervasive, and because it
continually leads to a semanticization of stereotypical context-induced
interpretations, there may not be a clear cut-off point between contextual
variation and polysemy.
As has been elaborated in Section 5.1.2, semantic change of grammaticaliz-
ing items like the verbs treated in this book, consists in the transfer of a
lexeme-inherent semantic template to increasingly abstract semantic and
functional domains.
Thus, diachronic change as well as synchronic ambiguity of an item is
due to the reinterpretation of the basic semantic template. Depending on
the factors mentioned above as well as on frequency, stereotypicality, dis-
tance of semantic domains, and functional specifications, this reinterpreta-
tion can result either in a distinction of word classes (i.e. different ‘het-
erosemes’) or in polysemy within a particular word class or in contextually
triggered ‘pragmatic’ interpretations. As diachronic change continually
leads to a semanticization of stereotypical context-induced interpretations
(Traugott and König 1991), the decision whether to treat a particular read-
ing as part of the semantic content, i.e. as one meaning of a polysemous
item or as a pragmatic function legitimated by its lexical meaning without
being part of it, can only be made individually for each item and each dia-
chronic period, because it is certain to change.
As far as the evidentials and their source constructions are concerned,
we hypothesize that the distinction between grammaticalized evidential
meaning and non-grammaticalized evidential meaning is one of polysemy
at least, which is supported by the distinction of relevant linguistic context
types (see next section), while meaning distinctions within the range of
non-grammaticalized usages usually are (but need not be) examples of
gradience, and under certain conditions may be resolved via conversational
implicature. This hypothesis can be based on independent factors (like the
Stages, contexts and constructions 143
grammaticalization parameters) and will be substantiated in the chapters to
follow. An overview is sketched in Table 8, which, as already mentioned
several times, will gain full plausibility after the concept of different con-
text types has been explained in the next section.
It should be noted that the chronology suggested in this table does not
capture the full development of a lexical item in all its variants, but only
that one strain of development that – ex post, i.e. if there has been gram-
maticalization into a particular category – can be retraced as the relevant
stages in its diachronic rise. In any case there may be parallel semantic
changes concerning the lexical source item in any of its variants.
Table 8. Meaning types and grammaticalization stages
time arrow t1 t2 t3 t4
stage of
grammati-
calization
I II III IV
type of
meaning
lexical
meaning
of source
item,
possibly
various
types of
gradient
meanings
lexical
meaning &
con-
versational
implicatures
in stereo-
typical
pragmatic
contexts
polysemy
constituted in
oppositive
contexts; later
grammatical-
ized meaning
appears as one
of the polyse-
mous readings
heterosemy sup-
ported by paradig-
matic integration of
grammaticalizing
item; lexical split or
survival of the
grammaticalized
meaning/form only
3. Stages, contexts and constructions
From the very beginning grammaticalization studies pointed to the fact that
it is not single linguistic items but linguistic items in particular contexts
that are the locus for grammaticalization. A new grammatical function does
not arise homogeneously in all uses of the linguistic item concerned, but is
bound in its origin to specific linguistic “contexts” or “constructions” (By-
bee, Perkins and Pagliuca (1994: 11), Bisang (1998: 20), Himmelmann
(2004: 31), Lehmann (1992: 406), 1995 [1982], Traugott 2003, Traugott
2008, Diewald 2006).4
In the last years this has lead to an integration of concepts used in con-
struction grammar models into grammaticalization studies,5
and to the de-
144 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
velopment of detailed models for describing the various context types in
grammaticalization (e.g. Heine 2002).
Without discussing these models and suggestions here, we focus on a
description of the model used in our investigation, a model which has
proved to be useful in a number of grammaticalization studies and has been
revised and refined continually (Diewald 2002, 2006, 2008). It integrates
semantic, morphological and structural aspects into the definition of con-
text types, and emphasizes the role of paradigmatic relations among con-
structions at a certain historical stage in a particular language as well as the
influence of paradigmatic oppositions in the target category of a grammati-
calization process.
While earlier versions assumed three chronologically ordered stages in
the diachronic rise of grammatical functions, the latest version contains
four stages each of which is associated with a particular type of context.
Table 9 gives an overview.
Table 9. Context types in grammaticalization: revised version.
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticalization
untypical
contexts
conversational
implicature
no particular
construction type
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticalization
critical
context
multiple opacity “extragrammatical
idioms”
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating
contexts
polysemous /
heterosemous items
“formal or lexically
open idioms”
Stage IV
paradigmatic
integration
paradigmatic
context
paradigmatic opposi-
tions (choices) with
reduced relational
meanings, i.e. gram-
matical meanings
paradigmatic choices
within an abstract
constructional sche-
ma
The first column renders the label of the four context types, the second
column gives a hint on the most important defining linguistic processes
involved in the ongoing change, and the last column indicates possible
interrelations with constructional notions, whereby the concepts of “extra-
grammatical idioms” and “formal or lexically open idioms” as defined by
Fillmore, Kay and O’Connor (1988) have proved useful (for relevant con-
Stages, contexts and constructions 145
structional concept see as well Fillmore and Kay 1995, Goldberg 1995,
Kay and Fillmore 1999, Michaelis 2004). In the following sections each
stage will be explained and illustrated by examples from the German mod-
als and by the development of the evidential construction with drohen.
Stage I. In the first stage, the preconditions of the grammaticalization
process develop. It shows an unspecific expansion of the distribution of the
lexical unit to contexts in which it had not been used before. These con-
texts are called untypical contexts. In them, the new meaning, which may
be grammaticalized in the further development, arises as a conversational
implicature, i.e. this meaning is contextually and pragmatically triggered
and not explicitly encoded in the linguistic items themselves. Untypical
contexts may persist after grammaticalization has taken place.
Very often, untypical contexts are those that do not display definite
clues/indications as to a possibly preferred reading, or that display conflict-
ing clues. Examples of untypical contexts from the modal verbs of German
are given in (22) and (23):
(22) Man mac si morgen mehelen einem andern man. (NL 1928,1)
‘One can her tomorrow marry to another man’
narrow scope, lexical: One is able/has the opportunity to marry her
to another man tomorrow.
wide scope, lexical: It is possible/There exists the opportunity: one
marries her to another man tomorrow.
wide scope, deictic: Perhaps one will marry her to another man to-
morrow.
(23) (Sênu thô uúîb thaz thâr bluotes fluz tholêta zuelif íâr inti uuas
managu tholênti fon uuola managên lâhhin inti gispentôta allu
irâ,) noh fon irô niheinîgemo mohta uuesan giheilit. (T 60,3)
‘and could not be cured by any of them’
wide scope, lexical: There was no opportunity for any of them: he
cures her
wide scope, deictic: *Maybe, nobody cured her.
Example (22) illustrates a context that results in gradience in the sense of
Coates 1983 (see Section 5.2). While the narrow scope reading is the older,
more lexical one, various wide scope readings typically arise via conversa-
tional implicatures in the sense of Grice [1975] 1989. That is, it is the re-
sult of a reasoning procedure of the hearer in a specific communicative
situation. The context exemplified in (23) triggers structural reanalysis
146 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
without semantic change (passive infinitive of the main verb). In this type
of context, the modal obligatorily (due to structural factors) has a wide
scope and at the same time retains its old lexical meaning. That is, the deic-
tic meaning is virtually excluded in spite of wide scope (cf. Nordlinger and
Traugott 1997, Gamon 1993, Diewald 1999, 2006).
Throughout the history of the German modals there are cases of this
type of semantic ambiguity and variable scope as well as examples with
obligatorily wide scope and the old lexical meaning.6
This is the first stage
of grammaticalization. It is characterized by two principally independent
types of contexts that show clusters of contextual features that were pre-
viously untypical. One context implies semantic generalization (generic,
indefinite or expletive subjects). The other context triggers structural rea-
nalysis without semantic change (passive infinitive of the main verb).
An analogous stage, i.e. untypical contexts from the perspective of the
contemporary language use, can be found – at least this is our claim – in all
grammaticalization processes (see Diewald and Smirnova to appear). The
following examples show the untypical context of drohen.
(24) Spuren der Plünderung ließen sich bemerken in Gefolg innerer
Feindschaft. hohe Mauern drohten den Einsturz, Türme standen
unsicher. (IDS-Corpora, GOE/AGA.01784)
‘Traces of the looting could be noticed togehter with internal ani-
mosity: high walls threatened the collapse/to collapse, towers stood
insecure.’
In (24) we have semantic extension leading away from the original mean-
ing. The original lexical verb drohen, being a speech act verb, serves to
encode the announcement of an event which is intended by the (human)
subject. That means that drohen introduces a connection between two
events, i.e., between the announcement itself (i.e., the act of speaking) and
the announced action (i.e., the content of the threat). And it always needs
an animate subject. In this construction the verb comes to mark a succes-
sive relationship between two situations which are expressed in the sen-
tence by nominalizations (Plünderungen, Einsturz). The existence of us-
ages like this is a preparatory condition for the grammaticalization process
to start.
This state, i.e. the existence of untypical contexts without further
grammaticalization, could continue forever without any necessity for fur-
ther development whatsoever. This is to say that Stage I does not initiate a
Stages, contexts and constructions 147
grammaticalization process; it merely marks a necessary though not suffi-
cient precondition of the grammaticalization process.
As untypical contexts make use of existing constructions and can be
easily interpreted due to their compositional structure, their role in the
grammaticalization processes is less relevant than those of critical and
isolating contexts.
Stage 2. The second stage describes the actual triggering of the gram-
maticalization process. It is associated with a highly marked construction,
called the critical context here. This is characterized by multiple structural
and semantic opacity, thus inviting several alternative interpretations,
among them the new grammatical meaning. The critical context functions
as a kind of catalyst; it is found only during Stage II and disappears in the
later development. Generally, in contrast to the other context types, the
existence of the critical context is restricted to a fairly narrow time span in
history and does not exist before or after that critical period (see later on
for modification of this over-generalizing statement).
For the grammaticalization of the modals it is found in MHG, around
1200. It is the construction shown below:
modal with dental suffix -t- & (nominal object) & haben/hân/sîn & past participle
The critical context consists of the modal with the dental suffix -t- plus an
optional nominal object plus haben/hân/sîn plus a past participle of a lexi-
cal verb. Although this construction is not attested before the middle of the
12th
century, it is found with all six modals as soon as around 1200 with a
relatively high frequency (cf. Westvik 1994, Deeg 1948), which means it
spread rapidly. Most important for our topic is the fact that this construc-
tion is only attested for the modals. There are no other verbs found in this
construction at that time (Paul, Wiehl and Grosse 1989: 295f.). (25) gives
an example with the modal können, which will be used here for illustra-
tion:7
(25) von Veldeke der wîse man!
der kunde se baz gelobet hân. (Parz 8, 404,29f.)
he could her better praised have
‘He can/could have praised her better.’
The interpretation of this construction is difficult as it is highly am-
biguous (which is not rendered fully in the semantic paraphrase in
(25)). Thus, disregarding the further linguistic context, the second line
148 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
of (25) – i.e. der kunde se baz gelobet hân – can be translated into PDG
in at least the following three ways (compare Deeg 1948 and Westvik
1994):
(25) a. Der hätte sie besser loben können (pluperfect subjunctive)
‚He could have praised her better.’
b. Der konnte sie besser als Gelobte haben (past participle as a pre-
dicative adjective)
‚He was better able to have her as a praised one.’
c. Der könnte sie besser gelobt haben/Der hat sie vielleicht besser
gelobt (deictic reading)
‚Perhaps he has praised her better.‘
The opacity of this MHG construction is not only a semantic one. The
morphological forms that build it are highly opaque themselves. First, the
non-finite structure hân & past participle is ambiguous between a reading
in the sense of the perfect infinitive of PDG, in which the participle is the
main verb and hân or sîn is the auxiliary, and a reading as a complex pre-
dicative structure where ‘have’ is the main verb and the past participle
functions a predicative adjective, like in (25b).
Second, the morphological form of the modal itself is ambiguous, too.
For MHG modals with a dental suffix it is not possible to distinguish be-
tween the indicative and the subjunctive of the past (Westvik 1994), be-
cause the formal marking of the subjunctive by Umlaut, which today pro-
vides a clear and systematic opposition between mochte vs. möchte, konnte
vs. könnte, had not yet developed at that time and there was a high amount
of formal syncretism (see Birkmann 1987: 194). Therefore it is reasonable
to assume that the MHG modals with a dental suffix express a distal value
which – depending on context – can be interpreted as modal and/or as tem-
poral distance (cf. Thieroff 1992).
Thus, the critical context is characterized by the coincidence – or rather
the clash – of two verbal forms that were both morphologically and mor-
pho-syntactically ambiguous. Therefore, these forms could not mutually
disambiguate each other. Being confronted with this construction, the reci-
pient had several possibilities for interpreting it without getting a clear
indication from the construction itself.
It is proposed here that it is this structure, the critical context, in which
the deictic reading and its necessary wide scope was not only one alterna-
tive interpretation among equally plausible others, but the most likely, the
Stages, contexts and constructions 149
favored, reading. Table 10 very briefly summarizes the different possibili-
ties of resolving the opacity of the critical context:
Table 10. Options for interpreting the critical context of the MHG modals
1. Lexical, non-deictic reading:
1.1. modal as indicative preterite (i.e. temporal distance only):
predicates a past modal state on the subject;
participle II is interpreted as modifying the direct object.
Result as in (25b):
Der konnte sie besser als Gelobte haben.
‚He was better able to have her as a praised one.’
1.2. modal as subjunctive preterite (i.e. temporal and modal distance):
predicates a modal state, which existed as a possibility in the past, on the
subject;
particle II is interpreted as modifying the direct object;
Result as in (25a), corresponds to PDG pluperfect subjunctive:
Der hätte sie besser loben können.
‘He could have praised her better.’
2. Deictic reading:
modal has wide scope;
predicates a factuality value on the whole proposition;
infinitive & PII are interpreted as infinitive II.
Result like in (25c), corresponds to PGD deictic reading:
Der könnte sie besser gelobt haben.
‘Perhaps he has praised her better.’
The critical context for drohen appeared in the 18th
century, and has the
structural and semantic features of inanimate subject referents and infini-
tive complement denoting an action:
inanimate subject & inflected drohen & infinitive complement denoting an action
(26) schon loderte die Flamme, und drohte das herrliche Werk in die
Asche zu legen. (Klinger, DE-Gutenberg)
‘the flame blazed and threatened to burn up the lovely work’
This instance of the critical context of drohen has the following three read-
ings:
(26) a. main verb, metaphor:
‘the flame threatened the destruction’
150 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
b. temporal-aspectual, ingressive:
‘the flame was about to burn up the lovely work’
c. perceptual inferential evidential:
‘some observable evidence points to the undesired event of the
flame burning up the lovely construction’
Table 11 gives an overview of the interpretative choices available for this
sentence.
Table 11. Options for interpreting the critical context of drohen
1. main verb reading (metaphor):
the action verb lodern triggers the metaphorical interpretation of the subject;
die Flamme is conceived as an animate agent being able to threaten some-
one, i.e. drohen is a full verb here;
an extended paraphrase for this interpretation is:
‘the flame (like an animate being) already performed the speech act of
threatening to burn up the lovely work.’
2. temporal-aspectual reading (ingressive):
the subject is not conceived as being an animate entity; the semantics of the
original full verb drohen is changed from that of a speech act verb to a so-
called phase-verb marking the content of the infinitive as being about to
happen;
in this case, drohen is no longer interpreted as designating a speech act an-
nouncing an action; instead it is understood as a verb indicating the onset of
an event.
an extended paraphrase for this interpretation is:
‘the process of the flame burning up the lovely work was imminent’
3. inferential evidential reading:
the evidential meaning consists in the interpretation of drohen as a secon-
dary predication (and auxiliary verb) having the whole proposition in its
scope and referring to a piece of information which the speaker adduces as
evidence for the proposition.
an extended paraphrase for this interpretation is:
‘...some observable evidence points to the undesired event of the flame burn-
ing up the lovely construction’
As already mentioned above, it is proposed here to treat the multiple struc-
tural and semantic opacities showing up in the critical context in a gram-
maticalization process as an idiomatic construction in the sense of Fill-
more, Kay and O’Connor (1988). More exactly, we are confronted here
with what the authors call an extragrammatical idiom, and which they de-
fine as follows: “Such expressions [i.e. extragrammatical idioms] have
Stages, contexts and constructions 151
grammatical structure, to be sure, but the structures they have are not made
intelligible by knowledge of the familiar rules of the grammar and how
those rules are most generally applied” (Fillmore, Kay & O’Connor 1988:
505).
This construction cannot be treated as a simple case of polysemy, be-
cause the different meanings correlate with different structural analyses.
Instead, we are confronted with a complex structure containing several
potential meanings, each of them associated with a distinct structural anal-
ysis. This raises the question which semantic and structural analysis should
be assigned to this construction in the first place. Without being able to
provide a complete answer to this question, we would like to suggest the
direction a possible solution could take.
As for the structural description, we propose to model it closely ac-
cording to the attestable distinctions of the surface forms without over-
interpreting any morphosyntactic structure. As far as the meaning of the
construction is concerned, there are indications that this construction may
have had a specific stylistic function, namely that of reinforcement or em-
phasis. Thus, it seems reasonable to assume a “pragmatic” meaning which
is assigned holistically to the construction. The content of this pragmatic
meaning might be circumscribed as an iconic relation between the structur-
al and semantic layer on one side and the pragmatic and stylistic layer on
the other.8
This suggestion rests on the assumption that the extraordinary semantic
and structural opacity (which surely originates in conscious creative choic-
es of the authors) is meant to iconically indicate an extraordinary stylistic
salience, and thus serves as an instruction to the hearers or readers to rec-
ognize and evaluate the interpretational options and choose a suitable one
themselves.
In short, the notion of the critical context as it is suggested here avoids
any attempts to assign a particular categorical (functional, semantic, struc-
tural) identification. Instead, it explicitly treats critical contexts as semanti-
cally and structurally ambiguous structures which allow for several alterna-
tive interpretations, whereby one of them is the predecessor of the newly
developing grammatical function.
Stage 3. Stage three shows the consolidation of the grammaticalization
process, i.e. the re-organization and differentiation of the grammatical for-
matives and the paradigm that is the target category of the ongoing gram-
maticalization process. In this phase, the new grammatical meaning is iso-
lated as a separate meaning from the older, more lexical, meaning. This
separation of the two meanings is achieved by the development of isolating
152 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
contexts for both the lexical and the grammaticalized readings, i.e. specific
linguistic contexts that favour one reading to the exclusion of the other. As
soon as the opposition between the isolating contexts is established, the
process of grammaticalization can be said to be irreversible as it cannot be
reduced to an earlier stage. The new grammatical meaning is no longer
dependent on conversational implicature, as the linguistic element under
grammaticalization has become truly polysemous (cf. polysemy test in 5.2).
Usually, isolating contexts for the grammaticalized and for the non-/less
grammaticalized variants show complementary distribution with regard to
their relevant structural properties. Hence, isolating contexts for non-/less
grammaticalized variants of the elements in questions may be defined ne-
gatively with respect to the isolating contexts for grammaticalized variants.
The isolating contexts for the modal verbs in PDG are the following:
the grammaticalized modals do not allow for periphrastic tenses; this
means that, if a modal is used with a periphrastic tense, it can only have the
less grammaticalized meaning. This is shown in (27), which allows only
for a lexical reading of hat müssen, etc.):9
(27) Er hat/habe/hatte/hätte/wird ... erst das Semester zu Ende bringen
müssen.
‘He has been/had been/would have been/will be … obliged to
finish the semester first.’
On the other hand, there is a type of context in which the lexical reading is
virtually excluded and the grammaticalized reading is highly favoured.
This is the combination of the modal with an infinitive perfect, as shown in
(28):
(28) Ich muss mich getäuscht haben.
‘Perhaps I was mistaken.’
Table 12 gives an overview of the two isolating contexts of the modal
verbs in PDG. The isolating contexts for drohen are illustrated in (29) and
(30), which both allow only the reading of drohen & zu-infinitive as an
inferential evidential marker, i.e as an evidential auxiliary.
Stages, contexts and constructions 153
Table 12. The isolating contexts of German modals
1. Isolating context for the less grammaticalized, lexical reading:
periphrastic modal verb (e.g. haben as auxiliary) & modal verb as past participle
(realized as the so-called “Ersatzinfinitiv”, i.e. a past participle looking like an
infinitive) & lexical verb as infinitive (complement of the modal) (see (27))
Meaning of the whole construction:
‘a modal state being predicated on the subject of the sentence’
2. Isolating context for the grammaticalized, deictic reading:
finite modal verb & perfect infinitive of the main verb (see (28))
Meaning of the whole construction:
‘uncertain factuality value being attributed to the whole proposition by the
speaker’
(29) Sitz gerade auf dem Fahrrad, Ilja! Führe den Lenker nach links,
wenn du nach rechts zu kippen drohst! (IDS-Corpus)
‘Sit straight on the bike, Ilja! Turn the handlebars to the left, when
you threaten to topple to the right.’
(30) aber die Sonnenhitze brennt gar zu stark, daß mir das zarte Kraut
zu welken droht…(GRI/KHM.00122, IDS-Corpus)
‘but the heat burns too strongly, so that my fragile herbs threaten to
fade‘
The relevant contextual features of this isolating context are the following
ones:
2nd
and 3rd
person subjects (animate/inanimate) & drohen in present/preterite
(i.e. non-periphrastic) tense form & infinitive verbs denoting a non-action
It is suggested here that the isolating contexts in the case of the modals as
well as in the case of drohen, like the critical contexts, are constructions in
the construction-grammatical sense. More precisely, they belong to a sub-
type of idioms which in Fillmore, Kay and O’Connor (1988) are classified
as “formal or lexically open” idioms. The authors define these idioms as
“syntactic patterns dedicated to semantic and pragmatic purposes not
knowable from their form alone” (Fillmore, Kay and O’Connor 1988: 505).
Formal idioms are constructions whose compositionality is reduced, i.e. at
least some part of their form-meaning correspondence has to be treated
holistically and cannot be derived in its totality from other constructions or
from a combination of other constructions; in short: they are characterized
154 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
by non-compositionality. However, they are still fully productive, as their
syntactic positions are not filled with lexically fixed items. Thus, though
there are partial similarities with other constructions which indicate partial
inheritance relations, the isolating contexts display a unique form-meaning
correspondence which cannot be reduced to combinations of other con-
structions. They therefore qualify as partially productive, idiomatic con-
structions in the constructional sense of the term elaborated above.
Stage 4. The fourth and final stage, which ultimately defines a given
development as grammaticalization is the paradigmatic (re)integration or
‘paradigmaticization’ of a new grammaticalized element. We argue that
we need this stage of paradigmatic (re)intergration in order to account for
the full process of grammaticalization, and also to distinguish grammatica-
lization from other types of language change.
As already discussed in Section 4.1, paradigmatic organization and ob-
ligatory use (with the relevant reservations and restrictions) are essential
features of grammatical categories and signs (independently of their mor-
pho-syntactic expression as inflection). Paradigmaticity is the very proper-
ty that distinguishes grammatical items from lexical ones, which may con-
join into word fields (i.e. loosely organized, open classes) but not into
paradigms. Thus, beyond morpho-syntactic and semantic changes, the most
important factor of grammaticalization is the increase in paradigmaticity.
By the process of paradigmatic (re)integration the new grammati-
cal(ized) meaning is stabilized, as it (i) comes to be confronted with oppos-
ing members, on the one hand, and (ii) is gradually integrated within a
more abstract grammatical meaning serving as a common denominator for
each member of the paradigm, on the other hand. The resulting structure is
a tightly integrated paradigm, as it is described by Lehmann:
On the semantic side, the members of a paradigm have a common semantic
basis with varying differentiae specificae. This would be brought out by a
componential analysis and is reflected in traditional terminology by the fact
that there is a generic category name for the whole paradigm and opposite
names for the specific subcategories. Such paradigmacity is gradually
reached in the process of grammaticalization. Categories grammaticalized
very little do not constitute such tightly integrated paradigms. (Lehmann
2002: 120)
In other words, in Stage 4 the new grammatical meaning becomes subject
(or: dependent or non-autonomous) to the meaning of the whole paradigm
it pertains to and at the same time dependent on the meanings of other
members of the paradigm. This contrasts sharply with instances of lexicali-
Stages, contexts and constructions 155
zation, i.e. the inventarization of an item as part of the lexicon, or mere
semantic change, where there is (usually) no abstract meaning serving as
an integrating label as is the case in a paradigm. If there is paradigmatic
integration which at the same time is accompanied by persistence of other
– more lexical – uses of the relevant item, then we may talk of the rise of
heterosemy, i.e. the split into different functional classes.
It should be emphasized here that we treat the very tight semantic or-
ganization of a grammatical paradigm as its most relevant property. As
concerns the formal characteristics, the members of a paradigm may (and
usually do) show variation, such as variation between inflectional and pe-
riphrastic forms within one paradigm (e.g. German tense and mood). Nev-
ertheless, it can be assumed that the more developed a grammatical para-
digm, the more homogeneous the formal characteristics of its members are.
For this reason, describing ‘construction types’ of the fourth stage in
grammaticalization, we call it ‘abstract constructional schema’ (cf. also
Langacker 1987, 1991, 2008). An abstract constructional schema consists
of the common semantic basis of a paradigm (e.g. tense marker) and the
abstract structural properties of its participating constructions (e.g. verbal
inflection or periphrasis), thus representing the type of non-reducible asso-
ciation of form and meaning crucial for classifying a given linguistic entity
as a construction. In a first approach we suggest that a notational conven-
tion of abstract constructional schemas includes the following information:
the category/paradigm label – the abstract formal characteristic of the
members of the category – the common semantic feature constituting the
general meaning/function of the whole paradigm. A few examples will help
to clarify what is meant here. The abstract constructional schema of Ger-
man tense markers in an abbreviatory way may be noted as follows:
CATEGORY LABEL: tense marker
FORMAL CHARACTERISTICS: modifies the main verb of the clause: either by
an inflectional morpheme (e.g. the German
preterite affix -te) or ablaut (schreibe – schrieb)
or a periphrastic form (haben/sein + perfect
participle)
CATEGORY MEANING: temporal location of the described event as
related to the speech time
The fourth stage – paradigmatic integration – thus refers to a whole set of
constructions, i.e. the constructional network building the paradigm, on the
one hand, and every single construction within it, on the other. It is the
156 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
conceptualization of the paradigmatic oppositions building a grammatical
category as a specific type of form-meaning pairing, and thus a specific
type of construction. It represents the process of integration of existing
constructions established during the three preceding stages into a closely
interrelated network. The process of consolidation into a paradigm – the
establishment of paradigmatic relations between constructions with the
result of a new paradigm (a new type of construction) – is what actually
happens at this stage.
The process of paradigmatic integration of the German modals has been
described by Diewald (1999, 2002). Although the details cannot be ren-
dered here, and notwithstanding the fact that it may be necessary to adapt
single values and oppositions in the scheme, Table 13 may serve as a
summary showing the importance of Stage 4.
Table 13. The paradigmatic organization of the German modal markers
CAT. LABEL: modal
marker
F. CHAR.: modifies
the main verb
CAT. MEANING:
factuality status of
the proposition
semantic oppositions within the paradigm
(distinctive values of individual members)
formal realizations
factual non-factual
purely
deictic
phoric quotative
verbal mood
markers:
- inflectional
- periphrastic
indicative subjunctive
II
würde &
infinitive
subjunctive
I
MV & infinitive können
müssen
dürfte
mag
sollen
wollen
A further important aspect should be addressed here: if there is an already
existing paradigm which functions as the target category of the process,
this paradigm is the paradigmatic context (cf. “renovation” or “renewal”
Stages, contexts and constructions 157
Lehmann 1995 [1982]: 21). This is the case for the development of periph-
rastic tenses, grammaticalized uses of modals etc.
If there is no existing paradigm, i.e. if a new category is arising in a lan-
guage (e.g. the modal particles, the article system, the evidential system in
German), the members of the newly arising category build a paradigm
among themselves, whereby the older members are the blueprint and give
the pattern for analogous developments etc. (cf. “innovation” Lehmann
1995 [1982]: 21). This, as we contend, is the case with the German eviden-
tial constructions, which developed into a system like the one illustrated in
Table 5 in Section 3.5, and which is repeated here (in a slightly modified
form) for convenience.
Table 14. Paradigmatic oppositions of inferential evidentials in PDG
CAT. LABEL:
evidential marker
F. CHAR.:
modifies the main
verb
CAT. MEANING:
information
source for the
proposition
semantic oppositions within the paradigm
(distinctive values of individual members)
formal
realizations
unmarked
evidentiality
inferential evidentiality
conceptual conceptual/
perceptual
perceptual
unmarked form indicative
(zero-
marking)
auxiliary &
infinitive
werden scheinen drohen
versprechen
It should be noted, furthermore, that the stage of paradigmatic integration
is not a sharply delimited chronological period, but rather a continuous
process. While at the beginning of a process of the paradigmatic integra-
tion there are typically formally inhomogeneous paradigms with relatively
high numbers of members and relatively rich, overlapping, non-distinctive
semantic features, moving towards the end the members become more ho-
mogeneous formally and at the same time more distinctive semantically.
158 Scales and scenarios of grammaticalization
The smaller the paradigm, the more distinct the semantic contrast between
its members and the more dominant the grammatical function. This, of
course, can be witnessed in all diachronically old inflectional paradigms,
which have only a few members which, however, have a greater distinctive
impact than members of larger, more loosely structured paradigms.
4. Summary
This chapter laid out the dynamic aspects of grammaticalization, i.e. fac-
tors steering the process of change itself, which – in addition to the more
stative, classificatory and comparative concepts presented in Chapters 2
and 3 – are necessary for the construction of a complete diachronic gram-
maticalization scenario.
These dynamic concepts are first the metaphorization and metonymiza-
tion scales, which capture essential cognitive procedures triggering change
in single lexical items, second, the concept of scheme retention and rein-
terpretation, and third, the successive semantic-functional stages, whereby
the two latter ones provide the matrix for possible steps and direction of
semantic change relevant in grammaticalization. Furthermore, definitions
of ambiguity, polysemy, heterosemy and related concepts have been elabo-
rated as far as they are necessary for a description of grammaticalization.
The model of successive stages, contexts and construction types genera-
lizes over single instances and relates processes of change to states in lin-
guistic systems. It distinguishes four stages, which are associates with spe-
cific processes and features and which are assumed to describe the general
developmental stages of grammaticalization.
Both perspectives – the one of tracing a change through time, and the
one segmenting processes into discernible stages, must be taken account of
and must be combined in order to model a grammaticalization process as
realistically as possible. The remaining chapters will proceed along these
guidelines.
Chapter 6
The four evidential constructions in present-day
German
This chapter is devoted to the presentation of our synchronic corpus find-
ings about the four evidential constructions in PDG. We first present an
overview of the relevant construction types in which the verbs werden,
scheinen, drohen and versprechen occur in PDG, irrespective of their se-
mantics and degrees of grammaticalization. Next, our focus will be on the
infinitive constructions with these verbs. A survey of the grammaticaliza-
tion status of each construction with respect to the parameters of grammat-
icalization has been given in Chapter 4.
In the following we will concentrate on the evidential meaning of each
construction and provide corpus evidence for treating these verbal periph-
rases as relatively highly grammaticalized linguistic devices for expressing
the category of (inferential) evidentiality in German.
1. Werden & infinitive
The construction werden & infinitive is highly polysemous in PDG: it has
several different readings if it is used in different contextual surroundings.
In the following we will argue that all readings of werden & infinitive in
PDG can be dervied from one core meaning, which has inferential eviden-
tial semantics. The next section presents a detailed analysis of the core
meaning and its context-induced interpretations. The different chronologi-
cal stages of the diachronic development will be laid out in Section 8.1.
1.1. Relevant construction types with werden in present-day German
In PDG the verb werden occurs in several variants. Its functional status
ranges from main verb to auxiliary, i.e., it displays several degrees of
grammaticalization. The following classification gives the relevant variants
of werden-constructions in PDG:
160 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
1. werden as a main verb;
2. werden as a copula;
3. werden with perfect participle, where werden serves as a passive aux-
iliary;
4. werden with infinitive, where werden has ambiguous interpretations1
;
5. würde with infinitive, where würde serves as a (preterite) subjunctive
auxiliary.
The variants listed above are illustrated in the following examples:
(1) Was nicht ist, kann noch werden.
‘What isn’t yet may well still be [become].’
(2) Sie wird traurig.
‘She is getting sad.’
(3) Das Haus wird gebaut.
‘The house is built.’
(4) Sie wird schlafen.
‘She will be sleeping/will sleep.’
(5) Sie würde schlafen (, wenn das Licht aus wäre).
‚She would sleep (, if the light was off).
Werden as a main verb is very rarely used in PDG. In this function it means
‘to happen, to rise, to occur, to come about, to come into being’ etc. It car-
ries aspectual semantic features and is ingressive,2
i.e., it refers to an event
which is bounded in its onset. This meaning of werden has remained rela-
tively stable since OHG.
Werden as a copula combines with nouns and adjectives and expresses
ingressive aspectual meaning as well (see (2)). In this function werden
shows the whole range of inflectional forms, i.e., it occurs in different –
synthetic as well as periphrastic – tense and mood forms.
Werden as a passive auxiliary is the most frequent use of this verb in
PDG. In this function werden serves as a highly grammaticalized passive
auxiliary. It is constitutive for the formation of the so-called werden-
passive (“Vorgangspassiv”), which forms a paradigmatic opposition to the
active voice, cf.:
(6) Der Mechaniker repariert den Motor. > Der Motor wird vom Me-
chaniker repariert. (examples taken from DUDEN 2005: 553)
Werden & infinitive 161
‘The mechanic repairs the motor.’ > ‘The motor is repaired by the
mechanic.’
As this variant of werden is not decisive for our further analysis it will
suffice to say here that it serves as a usual grammatical device to form pas-
sive sentences. It combines with most German verbs, transitive as well as
intransitive.
As already mentioned, the construction werden & infinitive is ambi-
guous, even polysemous in PDG, and the functional status of this construc-
tion is still a matter of considerable debate in German linguistics. In partic-
ular, it has been conceived of as a future tense form, on the one hand, or as
a modal construction, indicating the speaker’s epistemic assessment of the
likelihood of the described situation, on the other. The former account is
put forward by the so-called temporalists (e.g. Matzel and Ulvestad 1982,
Fabricius-Hansen 1986, Thieroff 1992 et al.), while the so-called modalists
(e.g. Vater 1975, Itayama 1993) favour the latter view. Taking a position in
between, DUDEN 2005 classifies werden as a temporal-modal auxiliary
(“temporal-modales Hilfsverb”; DUDEN 2005: 424) that is inherently am-
bivalent between the temporal and the modal interpretations. So, in exam-
ples like the following werden is considered to be a temporal auxiliary
marking the future time reference of the described event:
(7) Bereits am 1. April wird das Strandbad Müggelsee seine Pforten
öffnen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The Müggelsee Lido will open as early as April 1st
.’
On the other hand, in contexts like in (8) werden is usually identified as a
modal auxiliary indicating the factuality status of the described event:
(8) Ein bisschen wird man wohl nachdenken dürfen. (DWDS, Gespro-
chene Sprache)
‘Well, one should be allowed to give it some thought.’
The quotation below illustrates that the (exact) modal value of the con-
struction werden & infinitive is difficult to define:
Diese modale Verwendungsweise wird oft als Ausdruck einer Vermutung
bezeichnet. Sie scheint sich im Hinblick auf die modale Stärke eher neutral
zu verhalten. [‘This modal use is often considered an expression of an as-
162 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
sumption. It seems to be rather neutral in regard to the modal strength of the
speaker’s assessment.’] (DUDEN 2005: 515)
This, as we think, is a rather problematic issue. Werden is said to have a
modal value, hence it is identified as a factuality marker in PDG. At the
same time it is admitted that the modal value of werden & infinitive is neu-
tral so that it cannot be attributed a particular distinctive value within the
paradigm of the German factuality markers (see Chapter 3).
As we will see in the following sections neither the purely temporal nor
the purely modal interpretations nor the mixed temporal-modal identifica-
tion are able to cover the functional properties of the construction werden
& infinitive. In contrast to these descriptions we are going to suggest a core
evidential semantics which allows for a derivation of all contextually in-
duced interpretations.
As far as the würde & infinitive construction is concerned, it has been
shown in Smirnova 2006 that this construction has two main variants in
PDG: first, it serves as an analytical variant of the synthetic preterite sub-
junctive (as exemplified in (9) and (10)); second, it functions as a preterite
counterpart of the indicative construction werden & infinitive.
(9) Ich würde es kaufen (, wenn ich Geld hätte).
‘I would buy it (if I had money).’
(10) „Das war, als hätte man einen Teddybär dabei“, erzählt die Ma-
nagerin, „oder als würde man mit einem Menschen sprechen.“
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘”It was like having a Teddy bear with you“, the manager told, “or
like talking to a real person“.’
Würde & infinitive can replace the preterite subjunctive forms of most
verbs in German, in particular in counterfactual and irreal conditionals.
Moreover it serves as an obligatory substitute of the preterite subjunctive
forms of German regular verbs which are isomorphic to the past indicative
(see (9)). It is uncontroversial that this reading of würde is highly grammat-
icalized:
Mit dem Grundtempus des Konjunktivs II (Konj. Prät.) bezieht der Sprecher
sich auf Gegenwärtiges oder Zukünftiges (d.h. Nichtvergangenes). [...] Die
würde-Form wird in diesem Funktionsbereich des Konjunktivs II weitge-
hend gleichbedeutend mit der Grundform gebraucht. [‚With the basic tense
of the Konjunktiv II the speaker refers to the present or the future (i.e. non-
past). […] In this functional domain of the Konjunktiv II the würde form is
Werden & infinitive 163
largely used in a synonymous way’]. (Duden 2005: 523) (see also Helbig
and Buscha 2001, Flämig 1991, Eisenberg 2004, Weinrich 2003, Smirnova
2006 for similar opinions)
The second reading of the construction – the preterite of werden & infini-
tive – is exemplified in (11) where würde kommen cannot be substituted by
the synthetic preterite subjunctive of kommen, i.e., käme:
(11) Flavio hatte gewusst, dass diese Stunde einmal kommen würde.
(taken from Smirnova 2006: 137)
‘Flavio knew that this moment would come at some time.’
The construction würde & infinitive in both readings – which has been
mentioned here for the sake of complete coverage – will not be dealt with
in the course of this study.
1.2. Semantic diversity of werden & infinitive and its core semantics
The functional status of the construction werden & infinitive has not yet
been precisely identified due to its extensive polysemy. In this section we
deal with five distinct readings, which we label as follows: (a) future time
reference 1; (b) future time reference 2; (c) performative reading; (d) text-
connecting function, (e) evidential reading. Our survey is based on our
corpus analysis and on the observations found in the relevant literature on
this topic. As we are mainly concerned with the notion of evidentiality, our
central intentions are, first, to prove that werden & infinitive indeed has
inherent evidential meaning and, second, to investigate how this meaning is
connected to the whole range of readings werden & infinitive displays in
PDG.
(a) werden & infinitive with future time reference 1
It is uncontroversial that the construction werden & infinitive can be used
to introduce events whose occurrence is temporally located in the future. A
few selected examples from our corpus illustrate this use:
(12) Der König wird… Donnerstag früh nach Biarritz abreisen. Er wird
eine oder zwei Nächte in Paris verbringen und dort, bevor er seine
Reise fortsetzt, mit dem Präsidenten Fallières zusammentreffen.
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
164 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
‘The king will depart for Biarritz on Thursday morning. He will
spend one or two nights in Paris and, before he continues his jour-
ney, he will meet President Fallières there.’
(13) Wir werden das nachher erläutern. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘We will comment on it later.’
(14) Wir werden heute wie üblich fünf Bücher besprechen. (DWDS,
Gesprochene Sprache)
‘Today we will discuss five books as usual.’
It should be noted that, while having analyzed our corpus data, we identi-
fied only those instances of werden & infinitive as purely temporal which
allowed for a strict temporal interpretation without any additional (modal,
epistemic, evaluative, etc.) nuances. This means that whenever werden &
infinitive might also have been interpreted as an indication of the speaker’s
assessment of the likelihood of the (present or future) described event, we
did not consider it to be purely temporal. Therefore uses like the following,
which are identified by e.g. Thieroff (1992: 126-127) and Matzel and Ul-
vestad 1982 as temporal, are excluded from our group (a).
(15) Er weiß, was geschehen wird.
‘He knows what will happen.’
In our view these uses of werden & infinitive differ from the purely tem-
poral reading (a) of this construction in that they always convey an addi-
tional – speaker-oriented – meaning component which is joined with the
temporal one. For this reason we classify them as pertaining to the reading
represented under (b) below.
Although in the examples above werden & infinitive serves to mark the
(future) temporal location of the described event, it is not the exclusive
function of the construction. Throughout the future uses of the construction
there are also (contextually given) factors that have an impact on this par-
ticular interpretation and, as we think, should not be ignored. As illustrated
in (12) it is some decision, resolution, law or some other fact that causes
the existence or appearance of the situations introduced by werden. In (13)
and (14) there is an announcement made by a person who exactly knows
what is going to happen (because s/he is moderating the discussion and
knows the schedule of the program). Similar uses are frequently found in
fiction where the author announces what is going to come in the next pages
Werden & infinitive 165
or chapters of a novel. Thus, we can state that there is always some refer-
ence point (apart from the temporal one, i.e., the speech time) to which a
sentence with werden is anchored: it may be (knowledge about) a prior
event or knowledge about the planned occurrence of events. This fact, i.e.
the presence of a relevant reference point, may explain, for instance, why
werden & infinitive is not used when introducing events grounded in ca-
lendar time, cf.:
(16) * Morgen wird Dienstag sein. VERSUS Morgen ist Dienstag.
*‘Tomorrow will be Tuesday.’ VERSUS ‘Tomorrow is Tuesday.’
(17) * Am nächsten Freitag werde ich meinen Geburtstag haben.
VERSUS Am nächsten Freitag habe ich meinen Geburtstag.
*‘Next Friday I will have my birthday.’ VERSUS ‘Next Friday I
have my birthday.’
In our view such uses of werden & infinitive are blocked because there is
no reference point in the sense described above, i.e., there is no such thing
as a prior event or knowledge about what is coming next, to which werden
usually relates the described event. Instead, it is always a statement about a
fact, and this fact is neither dependent on some prior event nor on some-
one’s knowledge of it: it is just a fact. For this reason werden is not accept-
able in such contexts. Only if the described event implies a link to some
(knowledge about) facts or arranged plans can werden be used (example
(18) is taken from Thieroff 1992: 132):
(18) A: – Was machst du nächsten Freitag?
A: – ‘What are you doing next Friday?’
B: – Nächsten Freitag werde ich meinen dreißigsten Geburtstag
feiern.
B: – ‘Next Friday I will celebrate my thirtieth birthday.’
Here the fact that the birthday party has been arranged for the next Friday
serves as a reference point (in the sense described above). Therefore, the
use of werden & infinitive is possible.
(b) werden & infinitive with future time reference 2
Werden & infinitive is often used together with lexical expressions refer-
ring to an epistemic stance of the speaker towards the proposition. That is,
not only a (future) event is introduced, but also an epistemic evaluation of
166 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
this event is provided in a sentence. In this case we do not distinguish be-
tween various degrees of certainty of the epistemic judgment. The degree
of the (speaker’s) certainty may range from sureness to doubt; in most cas-
es however it has a neutral status in the sense that the speaker’s epistemic
stance is explicitly expressed without being further specified in terms of
degree (e.g. by such lexical expressions as Aussicht ‘outlook’, Erwartung
‘expectation’, prognostizieren ‘to predict’ etc.).
(19) Damit eröffnet sich die Aussicht, dass das Gesetz auch im Reichs-
tage die notwendige Mehrheit finden wird. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘So the expectation appears that the law will get the necessary ma-
jority in the Reichstag.’
(20) Nach seinem Eindruck sei Polen in riesigen Schwierigkeiten. Der
kommende Winter werde sehr schwer werden. Die EG werde Le-
bensmittelhilfe an Polen geben müssen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘His impression is that Poland is in big trouble. The next winter
will be very hard. The EU will have to provide Poland with food
assistance.’
(21) Ich sage Ihnen die Diskussion mit den Vereinigten Staaten von
Amerika voraus. Sie werden sich isolieren. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘I predict that there will be discussions with the United States of
America. She will isolate herself.’
(22) Ich glaube, ich werde auch Recht haben. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘I believe I will be right as well.’
Matzel and Ulvestad 1982 distinguish between two types of werden &
infinitive that they term “Zukunftsfutur1” and “Zukunftsfutur2”. The first
is labeled [+Gewähr ‘warranty’] and is said to allow substitution by the
present tense of the infinitive verb because the future reference is somehow
given in the context. This type comprises also uses described in (a) above.
The second is “subjective” and is labeled [–Gewähr]. We think however
that in both cases, irrespective of whether the epistemic assessment of the
proposition is explicitly coded in the text (or may be reconstructed from
the context) or not, werden & infinitive fulfills one and the same function:
it refers back to a significant reference point, be it the speaker (together
with his/her world of knowledge) or the person talked about.
Werden & infinitive 167
(c) werden & infinitive with performative meaning
Performative uses of werden & infinitive have been usually seen as derived
from its future meaning (cf. DUDEN 2005, Kotin 2003, Welke 2005 et al.):
they have been explained as a particular interpretation of the future time
reference that arises in contexts with first and second person human sub-
jects. In such contexts werden is said to express intention (promise or
threat) or request (command). On the other hand, the modalists (especially
Vater 1975, Amrhein 1996) have claimed that such uses may be considered
“non-inferential” (or deontic) uses of the “modal verb” werden. In these
cases, the semantics of werden is very close to the semantics of the modal
verb wollen ‘want’, while the combination with the second person subject
corresponds to that of sollen ‘shall’. The following examples from our
corpus illustrate the performative use of werden & infinitive:
(23) Wir werden uns dieser Herausforderung stellen. (DWDS, Gespro-
chene Sprache)
‘We will meet this challenge.’
(24) Wir werden neonazistische Gruppen in Berlin sich nicht mehr ent-
falten lassen. Wo immer möglich, werden wir sie zerschlagen, weil
das unsere moralische und nationale Pflicht ist. (DWDS, Kernkor-
pus)
‘We will not let neonazi groups unfold in Berlin. Wherever possi-
ble we will break them up because this is our moral and national
obligation.’
(25) Nein, nein, nein! Das werden Sie mir nicht befehlen.
(DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘No, no, no! You will not order me to do this.’
We argue that in its performative reading the construction werden & infini-
tive implies a strong link to a relevant reference point to which the proposi-
tion is related. Mostly this reference point may be easily reconstructed
from the context: this is either a decision which results in the (speaker-
internal) intention or a (external) status of the speaker that allows him/her
to order something from others.
(d) werden & infinitive with text-connecting function
While investigating our synchronic corpus data we have paid special atten-
tion to the contextual configurations in which werden & infinitive occurs
(the first attempt in this direction has been done in Smirnova 2006). What
168 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
we have found is the large number of werden uses which undoubtedly are
very closely interlinked with their contextual environment. Werden & infi-
nitive has a particular text-integrating function which has been paid very
little attention in linguistic research so far. Namely, werden & infinitive
indicates a strong link to the (preceding) text (segment) in that it introduces
situations which are seen as a consequence from what has been described
before. Consider the following examples:
(26) Über zweitausend Menschen verlassen die DDR, siedeln in den
Westen über. Und das wird sich noch weiter vergrößern. (DWDS,
Gesprochene Sprache)
‘More than two thousand people leave the GDR, move to the West.
And this number will continue to grow.’
(27) Wenn Sie gütigst erwägen, daß mir der Spaß schon zu teuer ge-
kommen ist, so werden Sie wohl sich sagen müssen, daß ...
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘If you kindly consider that the fun has cost me dear you will no
doubt have to say yourself that…’
(28) Wer sich gegen die verfassungsmäßige Ordnung betätigt, wird
durch das Bundesverfassungsgericht ausgeschaltet werden.
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘People who act against the constitutional order will be eliminated
by the Federal Constitutional Court.’
The text passages preceding the clause with werden & infinitive contain
information that can be rendered as a fact that is (in the sense of a cause-
effect relationship, empirically, logically, hypothetically, etc.) followed by
the situation formulated with werden & infinitive. The future temporal
location of the described event seems to be not the exclusive function of
the construction. Though the state of affairs is usually located in the future,
this need not necessarily be the case. Instead, the temporal meaning mostly
results from the interpretation of the whole context of the utterance. Ra-
ther, and this holds for all examples above, werden & infinitive serves as a
means to mark the described event as related to the preceding – textually
present – information and as resulting from it. Further examples from our
corpus illustrate the close interconnection between the construction werden
& infinitive and the textually present information:
Werden & infinitive 169
(29) Wenn die Reformen in Polen und Ungarn scheiterten, wären sie
auch in der DDR zum Scheitern verurteilt. Deshalb werde er in
drei Wochen nach Ungarn reisen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘If the reforms in Poland and Hungary failed they would also be
doomed to failure in the GDR. Therefore (he said) he would travel
to Hungary three weeks later.’
(30) Also bitte! Dann wird ein Buch wegfallen. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘Very well then! Then one book will be omitted.’
As these examples show the clause with werden often contains an anaphor-
ic device that explicitly refers to the preceding text (deshalb ‘therefore’,
dann ‘then’, we also found darum ‘for that reason’, daraus ‘hence’, damit
‘therewith’ in our corpus). These devices mark the proposition as a (logi-
cal, causal, conditional, etc.) consequence from the preceding text due to
their inherent semantics. Taking into account the examples (26) - (28) dis-
cussed above we can conclude that it is not only the anaphoric elements in
the text which establish a (sequencial) relationship between two text por-
tions. Rather it is the construction werden & infinitive which establish this
link, and the anaphoric elements serve to emphasize, i.e., to textualize this
relationship. Our diachronic findings support this suggestion (for more
details see Chapter 8.1): chronologically, the constructions of the type pre-
sented in (26) - (28) are older than the constructions with anaphoric ele-
ments. In this connection the occurrence of anaphoric linguistic elements
can be seen as a (textual) strengthening of the already established function
of werden & infinitive.
In sum, our corpus analysis has revealed a relatively frequent use of
werden & infinitive that is characterized by a strong text-connective func-
tion of this construction. Werden indicates that the described event is re-
lated to the event(s) introduced in the preceding text. Furthermore werden
characterizes the described event as a result or consequence that follows
from the preceding situations. An important property of werden in such
contexts is that it does not necessarily establish a temporal reference.
What werden & infinitive of this type shares with the uses described
earlier in this section is that there is a relevant reference point to which the
clause with werden is anchored. This reference point is represented here by
the textually present information pieces as far as they serve as a fact or a
situation from which the werden-event results.
170 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
(e) werden & infinitive with evidential meaning
In the literature on werden & infinitive it is generally agreed that the con-
struction has modal nuances when it introduces present or past situations.
In such cases werden is said to express the speaker’s (subjective) attitude
towards the proposition. The modalists claim that this is the core meaning
of the construction werden & infinitive (see above). Others (e.g. DUDEN
2005, Kotin 2003, Fritz 2000 et al.) see it as a particular interpretation of
the core temporal meaning of werden & infinitive: since the described
event cannot be located in the future (which is obvious from the context),
the future temporal meaning of werden is said to be blocked and therefore
reinterpreted as epistemic meaning.
As we have demonstrated above, the temporal value of werden & infini-
tive is not necessarily present in all of its uses. Even when this construction
is used to introduce future events it has a more fundamental semantic com-
ponent which can be found in every use of this construction. Therefore we
suggest that the temporal interpretation itself results from the core seman-
tics of werden & infinitive and serves as one possible interpretation of this
core meaning. It is to say that we do not restrict so-called epistemic inter-
pretations of werden & infinitive to present and past situations. Rather,
such uses are commonly spread through all temporal perspectives, cf.:
(31) a. Er wird jetzt in seinem Büro sitzen.
He WIRD now in his office sit.INF
‘He is bound to be in his office right now.’
b. Er wird gestern in seinem Büro gesessen haben.
He WIRD yesterday in his office sit.PP have.INF
‘He must have been in his office yesterday.’
c. Er wird morgen in seinem Büro sitzen.
He WIRD tomorrow in his office sit.INF
‘He is bound to be in his office tomorrow.’
We claim that the meaning of werden & infinitive in all three examples in
(31) is the same, irrespective of the different temporal location of the de-
scribed event. In our view, this meaning is clearly evidential and not epis-
temic (see Chapter 2). In the next section we will argue that werden & infi-
nitive has a core semantics which underlies all its various interpretations.
Werden & infinitive 171
1.3. Temporal reference or modal evaluation: the core semantics of
werden & infinitive
Several attempts have been made in the last few decades to subsume dif-
ferent readings of the construction werden & infinitive under a core mean-
ing. We have already mentioned two opposite approaches: the temporalists
(Gelhaus 1975, Fabricius-Hansen 1986, Thieroff 1992, Welke 2005 et al.)
and the modalists (Vater 1975, Engel 2002, Itayama 1993, Weinrich 2003
et al.). The former see werden & infinitive as a future tense form. The lat-
ter treat werden as a modal verb. Further conceptions have been offered
that argue for a core meaning of werden & infinitive which is neither pure
temporal nor pure modal.
Lipsky (2002: 106), for example, argues for a pragmatic view and
claims that the main function of werden & infinitive is to change the actual
speech situation in order to influence the hearer.
Fritz 2000 proposes to treat werden & infinitive as an explicit expres-
sion of the speaker’s orientation towards the proposition. He defines the
core semantics of werden & infinitive as Sprecherbezug ‘reference to the
speaker’. This means that, using the construction werden & infinitive, the
speaker explicitly refers to him/herself as a producer of the utterance. This
very abstract semantics, following Fritz 2000, is the basis for every use of
werden & infinitive in PDG as it allows for different interpretations in
specific contexts. This view is partly in line with our suggestion about the
core semantics of werden & infinitive.
Kotin 2003 terms the core semantics of werden & infinitive “prognos-
tic”. This view is rather problematic. First, the verb werden is attributed a
two-fold grammatical status: it is classified as a modal verb and at the same
time as a ‘prognostic’ auxiliary. Second, it is hard to see the difference
between the notion of prognosis and the future semantics, as it is argued
that there is always a temporal distance between the fact of uttering a pre-
diction and the fact of testing the validity of this prediction.
The first attempt to describe the core semantics of werden & infinitive
in evidential terms has been done by Diewald 2005 and has been further
developed by Smirnova 2006. This approach will be described in more
detail in the next section. At this point the abstract semantics of werden &
infinitive will be introduced.
We propose that one crucial semantic property can be attributed to all
relevant readings of werden & infinitive mentioned above. This semantic
feature can be sketched only in very abstract terms (which is not surprising
if we take into consideration the high degree of grammaticalization, and
172 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
thus of semantic bleaching, of this verb within infinitive constructions).
Werden & infinitive anchors the proposition to some relevant reference
point. The particular nature of the reference point may vary: it can be either
the preceding text (d) or the knowledge about certain facts (a), or the gen-
eral (shared) knowledge about the outside world (b), (e), or even the social
status of the speaker (c). In any case the described situation is linked to
some (textual, metatextual, “outside world”, mental, etc.) entity that lies
outside the described situation. This core semantics of werden & infinitive
can be represented as an abstract relational structure with two obligatory
elements:
− the reference point (A) – or the starting point, i.e., the entity to
which the described event is anchored (not part of situation de-
scribed by the sentence containing werden)
− the end point (B), i.e., the event introduced by werden & infinitive
(the proposition).
The third element in this abstract semantic structure is the vectored relation
between the starting point and the end point: this pure relational compo-
nent can be defined as a sequential relation. By way of illustration this
semantic relational structure may be visualized as follows:
A [starting point] > sequential relation > B [end point]
reference point > [werden > proposition]
Figure 1. Abstract semantic relational structure of werden & infinitive
In the werden-construction the infinitive (together with its complements)
serves as a primary predication and werden functions as a secondary predi-
cation adding an evidential value to the proposition (see also Chapter 1.1).
The proposed abstract semantic schema of werden & infinitive under-
lies every instance of use of this construction. This abstract schema has
two prototypical realizations: the future temporal reading on the one hand
and the evidential reading on the other. The future temporal meaning of
werden & infinitive implies the following realization of the proposed
schema: the starting point is interpreted as (the speaker’s knowledge about)
certain past or present facts. Locating the described situation in the future
the speaker relies upon his/her current knowledge about some other facts
which are connected with the described event. The connection between
known facts and the described event is a sequential relation in terms of
temporal development from past/present towards the future. Thus the
Werden & infinitive 173
proposition is linked to the reference point which is construed as the
speaker’s knowledge about certain facts which are seen to be temporally
developing towards some end point that lies in the future.
The evidential reading, on the other hand, represents a different realiza-
tion of the basic schema: the reference point is interpreted as the speaker’s
information source. Saying that the described situation is bound to hap-
pen/to have happened the speaker relies upon his/her personal knowledge
about some facts which are connected with the described event. The rela-
tion between known facts and the described event is an inferential relation
between them. In this point the evidential reading of werden & infinitive
differs from its temporal reading: the latter represents the temporal sequen-
tial relation between the starting and the end point of the basic schema
whereas the former represents the logical sequential relation between them.
In this manner both temporal and “modal” interpretations of werden &
infinitive can be traced back to the same core meaning of this construction.
Note that the presence of a relevant reference point – which is conceived of
as pieces of knowledge – is an indispensable part of the meaning of werden
& infinitive in both cases. This particular characteristic of the reference
point justifies the evidential nature of the construction werden & infinitive,
as we will argue in the next section.
1.4. What is evidential about the core semantics of werden & infinitive?
In the previous section we have argued for a unified view of the semantics
of the construction werden & infinitive. We hope to have shown that we
can indeed establish a core – though a very schematic – semantic structure
of werden & infinitive that underlies its various interpretations.
Here we advocate the view that the evidential meaning is inherent to the
core semantics of werden & infinitive. As described above werden & infi-
nitive expresses a sequential relation between some reference point and the
proposition. That is, the proposition, even in the case of the future reading
of werden & infinitive, is construed as a (temporal, logical etc.) conse-
quence from some known facts. Note that if no sequential relation can be
assumed the use of werden is normally blocked. So, if the future occur-
rence of a situation is anchored in calendar time (such as birthdays, public
holidays, etc.) and thus cannot be inferred from some other facts, werden
cannot be used and the present tense form of the verb is preferred (see Sec-
tion 6.1.2).
174 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
Now, if we look for a grammatical category into which such a function
would fit, the category of inferential evidentiality appears to be the most
appropriate candidate. It is quite obvious that the sequential relation be-
tween some reference point and the proposition can be conceived of as a
logical operation carried out by the speaker. As for the reference point
which we have only vaguely defined in the abstract semantic schema of
werden & infinitive, it can easily be interpreted as the speaker’s informa-
tion source. Bringing these two observations together – the speaker-
oriented nature of the reference point and the sequential relation it bears to
the proposition – the inferential evidential value of the construction werden
& infinitive can be easily deduced. The speaker’s knowledge about some
facts serves thus as the information source from which the proposition is
inferred, i.e., the information source on which the statement is based.
Our view is in line with the conceptions offered by Fritz 2000 and Mor-
telmans 2004. As has been argued by Diewald 2005 and Smirnova 2006,
our conception differs from the others in that we define the speaker-
oriented, or the speaker-centered, character of werden & infinitive in evi-
dential terms. That is, the inherent link to the speaker is – in our concep-
tion – specified as the link to the speaker’s information source. Moreover
the notion of a sequential relation established by werden & infinitive is
also central in our approach. The semantic component of the sequential
relationship whose development may be also observed diachronically for
werden & infinitive (see Chapter 8.1 for details) is decisive for the particu-
lar – inferential – evidential value of the construction werden & infinitive.
The interpretation of the sequential relation in terms of the speaker’s infe-
rence process can be seen as a further proof of the development of the infe-
rential evidential function by this construction. By way of illustration let us
present some examples from our corpus which are best explained as carry-
ing inferential evidential value, cf.:
(32) Und ich bin auch immer bestrebt, daß alle, die von Dir kommen,
wieder zurückgehen. Du wirst sie schon gut aufheben. (DWDS,
Kernkorpus)
‘And I am always anxious that everyone, who comes from you,
goes back again. No doubt you will take care of them well.’
(33) Einer solchen kleinen Dame wird es nicht ganz leicht werden, die
Richter an ihre Unbescholtenheit glauben zu machen. (DWDS,
Kernkorpus)
Werden & infinitive 175
‘For such a small lady it won’t be quite easy to make the judges be-
lieve her respectability.’
(34) Also, die in Stockholm lieben die nicht so hervorragende Ware,
aber wir wollen hier nicht über die Stockholmer Akademie reden.
Grass wird ihn schon kriegen. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘Thus, those in Stockholm love the cheaper goods but we don’t
want to speak here about the Academy of Stockholm. Grass will
get it.’
Here the statements formulated with werden & infinitive are all anchored
in the speaker’s information source that may be further specified for each
example due to the given context: in (32) it is the speaker’s personal know-
ledge about the person addressed with du ‘you’, in (33) it is part of general
knowledge about the situation and people’s behavior, and in (34) it is the
specific information pieces about the writer Grass and the current situa-
tion. Moreover these statements are derived from known facts via the infe-
rence process of the speaker. Werden & infinitive marks the proposition as
inferred from the (internalized, known) speaker’s information. This is ex-
actly what inferential evidential elements typically do. Further examples
from our corpus may be interpreted in the same way, cf.:
(35) Schon einmal geriet der zuständige Gesundheitsminister unter den
erbarmungslosen Druck organisierter Klientelinteressen. Sie wer-
den sich daran erinnern. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘The responsible secretary of health has already got under the pres-
sure of the organized clientele interests. You will surely remember
it.’
(36) Als ich gesehen habe, es sind 550 Seiten, habe ich gewusst, es sind
hundert zu viel. Das wird er nicht durchhalten. (DWDS, Gespro-
chene Sprache)
‘When I saw that there were 550 pages I knew (that) there were a
hundred too many. He won’t stand it.’
(37) Aber immer wieder erinnert man sich an die Konstruktion und
denkt, das kann nicht stimmen. Niemand wird einer solchen Ge-
schichte zuhören. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘But over and over again one remembers the construction and
thinks: it cannot be true. Nobody will listen to such a story.’
(38) Da gibt es eine Szene in einem Berliner Kaufhaus. Sie werden sa-
gen, die ist sehr konstruiert. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
176 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
‘There is a scene in a store in Berlin. You will say: it is very artifi-
cial.’
(39) In jeder neuen Frau wirst du Entsetzliches erleben. (DWDS, Ge-
sprochene Sprache)
‘In any new woman you will experience terrible things.’
(40) Ja, also, Lieber. Wir werden uns hier heute nicht gegenseitig über-
zeugen. Möge jeder bei seiner Ansicht bleiben. (DWDS, Gespro-
chene Sprache)
‘Yes, then, my dear. We won’t convince each other here today.
Let’s agree to disagree.’
Note that the temporal location of the described situations is rather irrele-
vant in these examples. What is being expressed here is the inferential evi-
dential status of the proposition. This means, first, that the speaker bases
his/her statement on his/her own knowledge, and, second, that the state-
ment is always represented as resulting, i.e., inferred, from this knowledge.
Such – pure evidential – readings show a prototypical interpretation of the
abstract semantic schema of the construction werden & infinitive presented
in the previous section: the starting point is interpreted as the speaker’s
knowledge, i.e., the speaker’s own information source, and the proposition
results from this knowledge via the path of inference process.
Note furthermore that the evidential status of werden & infinitive,
though conceptually very closely related with the notion of epistemic mod-
ality, cannot be equaled with any modal epistemic value (for a detailed
account see Chapter 3). Werden does not indicate a particular factuality
degree of the proposition. Instead, different specific epistemic evaluations
may be added to the statement formulated with werden, cf.:
(41) Udo wird jetzt möglicherweise/wahrscheinlich/ganz gewiss in
Leipzig arbeiten. (example taken from Dieling 1982: 330)
‘Udo will possibly/probably/certainly be working in Leipzig now.’
It can thus be concluded that werden & infinitive does not attribute any
factuality degree to the proposition; it cannot be associated with any par-
ticular modal epistemic value and is compatible with various modal epis-
temic values. Therefore, it does not pertain to the domain of epistemic
modality.
To summarize, we have shown that the construction werden & infinitive
can be best described as an inferential evidential construction. The core
177
semantics of werden & infinitive may be described using the paraphrasis
introduced in Chapter 2:
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P]
In other words: the construction werden & infinitive is used if the speaker
has access to some information (i.e., personal and/or general knowledge)
which s/he interprets as pointing towards the described event. In short: the
speaker infers the proposition from premises known to him/her. Hence
werden & infinitive exhibits the conceptual inferential evidential value.
This is the default realization of its basic semantics.
2. Scheinen & zu-infinitive
In this section we deal with the construction scheinen & zu-infinitive in
PDG. In doing so, we first briefly outline the common construction types
of the verb scheinen in PDG, irrespective of their grammatical status. Next,
we focus on the construction scheinen & zu-infinitive and its semantic and
structural properties in more detail. This analysis will result in some new
crucial semantic as well as morphosyntactic criteria for distinguishing be-
tween lexical and evidential scheinen. Finally, we will propose that the
construction scheinen & zu-infinitive has two different evidential readings
in PDG: the direct perceptual evidential value on the one hand and and the
indirect inferential evidential value on the other.
2.1. Relevant construction types with scheinen in present-day German
In PDG the verb scheinen displays several different variants. Specific read-
ings of this verb are usually identified with specific construction types.
They show different semantic and syntactic features and exhibit different
degrees of grammaticalization. Following the suggestions put forward by
Askedal 1998 and Diewald 2000, 2001 we summarize the various uses of
the verb scheinen in the following manner:
1. scheinen as a main intransitive verb,
2. scheinen as a copula,
3. scheinen as a compound copula with added infinitive of the verb sein,
4. scheinen with zu-infinitive,
Scheinen & zu-infinitive
178 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
5. scheinen with a complement clause, and
6. the parenthetical scheinen.
It should be noted at this point that, synchronically, the variants 3 and 4 are
subtypes of the same construction. However, they can be differentiated on
diachronic grounds. In order to be able to describe the diachronic devel-
opment of scheinen in Chapter 8.2, this distinction is set up in this part of
the study as well. The above listed variants of scheinen are exemplified in
(42) - (47) respectively:
(42) Die Sonne scheint.
‘The sun is shining.’
(43) Sie scheint traurig.
‘She seems sad.’
(44) Sie scheint traurig zu sein.
‘She seems to be sad.’
(45) Sie scheint sich sehr darüber zu freuen.
‘She seems to be very happy about it.’
(46) Es scheint (mir), dass sie sich sehr darüber freut.
‘It seems (to me) that she is very happy about it.’
(47) Sie ist, wie es scheint/so scheint es (mir), sehr traurig.
‘She is, (as) it seems (to me), very sad.’
Scheinen as a main intransitive verb has the meaning ‘to shine, to give off
light’ and belongs to a large group of verbs denoting visual effects. It does
not have intentional semantics and is not restricted to animate subjects.
This basic meaning of visual effect has remained stable since OHG.
Scheinen as a copula verb is syntactically associated with the other
German copula verbs sein ‘to be’, werden ‘to become’, and bleiben ‘to
remain’, and occurs with various types of subjects and predicative expres-
sions.
(48) Sie ist/bleibt/wird/scheint traurig.
‘She is/remains/becomes/seems sad.’
Scheinen as a copula has the meaning ‘to be seemingly, to appear (as)’. In
this meaning scheinen already contains an evidential meaning component,
as it describes not only a visual effect produced by a subject (like Sonne
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 179
‘sun’ or Mond ‘moon’) but rather an impression which is caused by the
subject referent by means of its visual (or other) appearance. There is
usually an observer who experiences this particular impression. Hence the
copula verb scheinen often occurs with an additional (free) dative comple-
ment referring to the observer/experiencer.
The third variant of the verb scheinen is associated with its uses as
“compound” copula with the added zu-infinitive of sein ‘to be’. This va-
riant of scheinen is semantically very close to its second type. Construc-
tions of this type are very frequently found in our corpus data. The struc-
tural difference between this variant of scheinen and its uses as a copula
verb is very important because the connection of scheinen with the infini-
tive of sein most likely made it possible for further infinitives to be con-
nected with scheinen. This is among others a crucial step for the initializa-
tion of the grammaticalization process of scheinen towards an evidential
auxiliary. This process will be discussed in detail in Chapter 8.2.
The fourth variant of scheinen, which is found in constructions with zu-
infinitives of any verb, represents the highly grammaticalized variant of
this verb (see Chapter 4). Mostly the meaning of scheinen & zu-infinitive is
evidential, i.e., it indicates the information source for the described event,
cf.:
(49) Er scheint zu hoffen, daß ich mit den Kindern in den Tod gehe…
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘He seems to hope that I and the children will meet our deaths…’
(50) Dieser Roman scheint doch deutlich autobiographische Züge des
Autors zu haben. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘This novel seems to have clear autobiographical traits of the au-
thor.’
This variant of scheinen will be analyzed in more detail in the next sec-
tions.
The fifth variant of scheinen is found in syntactic constructions contain-
ing complement clauses with dass ‘that’ and als ob ‘as if’, as exemplified
in (46). We assume that this syntactic use of scheinen is semantically very
closely connected to its other uses, particularly to the second and the third
variants described above. What scheinen seems to express in constructions
with complement clauses is the impression which is produced (on some
observer) by some entity or situation. The impression may be more or less
concrete, and it may be more or less plausible. Every actual interpretation
180 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
of the evaluative and epistemic status of the represented impression is sup-
ported by further contextual devices and does not arise from the verb
scheinen alone. So, for instance, if the complement clause is formulated in
the subjunctive mood, the expressed proposition is considered to be non-
factual and thus less plausible.
The so-called parenthetical scheinen (i.e., syntactically not integrated
into the sentence as exemplified in (47)) is treated here as a separate va-
riant. Though semantically very close to the other types, especially types 2,
3 and 4, this variant of scheinen differs considerably from other types with
respect to its distributional properties.
The construction types with scheinen represented here so far have been
distinguished on the basis of their syntactic properties. As for the semantic
nature of the established types, three main semantic variants of scheinen
may be distinguished at this stage:
1. the meaning of visual effect, i.e. ‘to shine, to give off light’, including
construction type 1;
2. the meaning of (visual) impression, i.e. ‘to be seemingly, to appear
(as)’, including construction types 2, 3, 5 and 6; and
3. the evidential semantics of scheinen (construction type 4).
2.2. Semantic diversity of scheinen & zu-infinitive
The construction scheinen & zu-infinitive has been shortly described in
Chapter 3 as indicating the concenptual/perceptual inferential evidential
value of the proposition. This meaning represents the distinctive value of
scheinen & zu-infinitive within the system of German evidential markers
(for further details see Chapter 7.2.2). This meaning is exemplified in the
following examples from our corpus:
(51) Man scheint nämlich vollkommen vergessen zu haben, dass …
(DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘One seems to have totally forgotten that…
(52) Aber die geheimen Vorbereitungen zu Putschen, wie sie die Natio-
nalsozialisten jetzt zu beginnen scheinen, können wir unter keinen
Umständen dulden. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘We can under no circumstances tolerate the secret putsch prepara-
tions which the National Socialists now seem to be initiating.’
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 181
Here scheinen indicates that there are some information pieces available to
the speaker on which s/he bases his/her statements. The nature of informa-
tion is not explicated in text: only the fact that the proposition is based
upon the speaker’s inferences is marked by the infinitive construction with
scheinen. In the following examples the evidence available to the speaker
is explicitly mentioned in the text:
(53) Fritz hat hier und da von sich hören lassen. Es scheint ihm gut zu
gehen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Fritz has been in touch here and there. He seems to be doing well.’
(54) Sie scheint mit ihm Orgien zu feiern, das belastende Material liegt
vor. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘She seems to celebrate orgies with him, we have the incriminating
material at our disposal.’
From these examples it is obvious that the evidence, i.e., pieces of informa-
tion on which the statements are based, can belong to different types: the
information may be conceived of as a testified fact, as in (54), or as learned
from others, as in (53). Some further examples from our corpus provide
evidence that the information pieces being referred to by scheinen & zu-
infinitive are not restricted to facts known to or heard by the speaker, but
can comprise personal knowledge of the speaker as well, cf.:
(55) Ich glaube, manches Stück von ihm könnte man retten durch völlig
neue Inszenierungen, aber dem scheinen sich ja die Erben Brechts,
soviel ich weiß, zu widersetzen. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘I think some of his plays could be rescued by staging completely
new productions, but Brecht’s the administrators of Brecht’s estate
seem to be set against that, as far as I know.’
(56) Der Herr Minister wird dieses Problem sicherlich einer Untersu-
chung zuführen und er scheint, so weit ich im Bilde bin, bereits ir-
gendwelche Wege gefunden zu haben. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘The Minister will surely guarantee an investigation of this prob-
lem and he seems, as far as I am in the know, already have found
some ways to do it.’
Here the evidence is not specified as certain facts but is only referred to as
not further specified knowledge of the speaker. This demonstrates that the
182 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
situations introduced by scheinen & zu-infinitive may be inferred from
pieces of the speaker’s (personal) knowledge (as it is the case with the
conceptual inferential construction werden & infinitive) as well as from
information learned from others. The spectrum of types of evidence which
scheinen & zu-infinitive may refer to in particular contexts reaches thus
from irrefutable facts to unspecified pieces of the speaker’s subjective
knowledge. Moreover, scheinen is very often used in situations where di-
rect (visual) information serves as the basis for the statement (see Section
6.2.4). For this reason we classify scheinen & zu-infinitive as an inferential
evidential construction that combines perceptual and conceptual inferential
values. This characteristic of scheinen & zu-infinitive reflects its diachron-
ic development (see Chapter 8.2 for further details).
A brief note on epistemic modal nuances of scheinen is in place here. In
our synchronic corpus material we found a number of examples in which
scheinen co-occurs with expressions indicating the strong speaker’s com-
mitment to the truth of the proposition, cf.:
(57) Also scheinen unsere Behauptungen, die wir ja auch beweisen
können, unter allen Umständen zu stimmen. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘Our statements then, which we also can prove, seem to be right
whichever way you look at it.’
(58) Denn in der Tat scheint es so zu sein, dass es ein schweres Trauma
gegeben hat… (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘For indeed it seems to be that there was a severe trauma.’
(59) Ich sage das noch einmal; man kann es nämlich nicht oft genug
sagen; denn es scheint offensichtlich noch nicht angekommen zu
sein. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘I will say it one more time; one cannot say it often enough; for,
obviously, it seems not to have been registered properly.’
Remarkable in this connection is that we have not found any examples in
which scheinen co-occurs with epistemic modal adverbials like vielleicht
‘possibly’, vermutlich ‘supposably, assumingly’, sicher ‘surely’ etc. Bear-
ing in mind that scheinen has been often described as a verb expressing
epistemic modality (see Chapter 3) one would expect to detect such com-
binations. The German epistemically used modal verbs, on the contrary,
often allow such combinations:
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 183
(60) Das könnte vielleicht klappen.
(www.artechock.de/film/text/interview/h/hader_2005.htm, ac-
cessed 18.08.2007)
‘This might possibly work out.’
(61) Dich müsste ich sicher schon gesehen haben. (www.dsds-
news.de/27-andreas-eitel, accessed 18.08.2007)
‘I surely must have seen you before.’
This fact supports our claim that scheinen does not have any inherent epis-
temic modal semantic components and that such components have the sta-
tus of (generalized) conversational implicatures (see Chapter 3 for more
details).
In our corpus material we detected a number of instances of the con-
struction scheinen & zu-infinitive which cannot be considered evidential.
Leaving aside cases where the construction can be interpreted as direct –
visual – evidential marker (for this see Section 6.2.4), we focus here on
some uses which, as we think, may be best explained as a persistence of
certain meaning components of the original – lexical – semantics of schei-
nen. The phenomenon of persistence in grammaticalization was described
by Hopper 1990, 1991:
When a form undergoes grammaticization from a lexical to a grammatical
function, so long as it is grammatically viable, some traces of its original le-
xical meanings tend to adhere to it, and details of its lexical history may be
reflected in constraints on its grammatical distribution. (Hopper 1991: 22)
In short, we are talking about persistence when a grammaticalized linguis-
tic unit displays distributional, semantic and structural restrictions which
are due to some preserved feature of its original lexical source item. For
scheinen, most of the ambiguous interpretations of the infinitive construc-
tion we have found in our corpus may be explained in terms of persistence
effects. Consider the following examples:
(62) Der Teppichboden gibt hier den neutralen Untergrund ab, auf dem
sich die Rot-Töne entfalten können. Selbst etwas schwerere Möbel
scheinen bei dieser Zusammenstellung zu “schweben“. (DWDS,
Kernkorpus)
‘The wall-to-wall carpeting serves here as a neutral background
against which the shades of red can unfold. Even the slightly
heavier pieces of furniture seem to “hover” in this configuration.’
184 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
Syntactically, the verb scheinen occurs within infinitive construction which
we described above mainly as an evidential construction. Semantically,
however, the meaning of scheinen & zu-infinitive in the example above is
not evidential: scheinen denotes the imagined, non-real status of the de-
scribed situation. It introduces situations which directly contradict reality,
and this is obvious from the surrounding context. In such cases scheinen
shows the preservation of the meaning component of its lexical source: the
highlighting of the non-consistence between the appearance of an ob-
ject/event and the real nature of this object/event. This meaning compo-
nent, which we call “make-believe” meaning, may be formulated in short
by the following formula: scheinen ‘seem, appear’  sein ‘be’; it is mostly
present in the lexical constructions of type 2 and 3 described in Section
6.2.1. Thus, scheinen highlights the opposition between the appearance of
an entity and its real nature.
There is a second type of infinitive constructions with scheinen which is
frequently found in our corpus and which cannot be easily subsumed under
the evidential meaning of scheinen. Scheinen cannot be interpreted as an
evidential marker in such situations: it denotes the perspective (often the
visual perspective) of an observer who is part of the described scene. This
interpretation of scheinen & zu-infinitive may be exemplified by the fol-
lowing examples from our corpus:
(63) Die letzten Hoffnungen scheinen in den Augen der englischen Po-
litiker … auf neuen Komplikationen zu beruhen (DWDS, Gespro-
chene Sprache)
‘Seen through the eyes of the English politicians the last hopes
seem to rest on new complications.’
(64) Dahinter aber scheint mir eine ideologische Strategie zu stehen,
die mir einerseits zu erklären scheint, warum dieses Buch im Mo-
ment so erfolgreich ist… (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘An ideological strategy seems (to me) to be behind it, which on
the one hand seems (to me) to explain why this book is so success-
ful at the moment…’
For the explanation of such uses of the construction scheinen & zu-
infinitive we apply the notion of persistence again. The meaning of person-
al attitude can be traced back to the lexical meaning of personal impression
which is again very strong in the copula and copula-like uses of scheinen:
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 185
(65) DER BARON - erhebt sich, der Moment für den ersten Kuß scheint
ihm gekommen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The baron stands up, the moment for the first kiss seems to him to
have come.’
(66) er schien ihr sehr gut bekannt (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘She seemed to know him very well.’
In the examples above scheinen renders the impression the situation-
internal observer has of an entity, which usually is based on perceptual
(often visual) clues. The situation-internal observer is often encoded by a
free dative, a structural possibility, which, too, has persisted through all the
history of scheinen (see Section 8.2). Furthermore, it should be noted that
this “subjective, observer-based” meaning and the evidential meaning of
scheinen are examples of the semantic relationship of gradience or poly-
semy respectively (see Chapter 5), i.e., they belong into the domain of am-
biguity within lexical meaning.
It should be noted however that both meaning components described
above are mostly realized in certain contexts, i.e., they arise in certain con-
textual configurations which trigger a particular interpretation of the infini-
tive construction diverging from the evidential one. Thus, the “make-
believe” interpretation of the proposition with scheinen arises typically in
contexts where the opposition to the actual, or the “real”, state of affairs is
obvious. The function of the construction scheinen & zu-infinitive, which
we have described as “subjective” and observer-based, on the other hand,
is mostly limited to such cases where the personal involvement of an ob-
server is explicitly referred to by the free dative (mir ‘(to) me’, ihnen ‘(to)
them’, ihm ‘(to) him’ etc.). Hence both of the interpretations of scheinen &
zu-infinitive that question its evidential status in PDG can be easily re-
vealed as cases of the persistence mechanism typical of every grammatica-
lization process.
2.3. Lexical versus evidential scheinen: some (more) crucial differences
In this section some more relevant points revealing the categorical diver-
gence between lexical and grammatical scheinen will be addressed. The
following observations will show that there is a clear difference between
scheinen as a lexical verb and scheinen as a grammatical evidential marker.
186 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
As we have pointed out in Chapters 1 and 2, German evidential verbal
constructions qualify as secondary predications. This means that they con-
vey additional information to the proposition, which is the primary predica-
tion. Together with the proposition they build a complex predication con-
sisting of two predications: the proposition centered around the infinitive
verb, on the one hand, and the evidential qualification of the proposition
expressed by the evidential auxiliary, on the other. So, every utterance
entailing an evidential marker may be split up in two separate parts: the
proposition or the factual claim (cf. Anderson 1986) and the evidential
status of this proposition. This may be explicated in the following way:
(67) Dieser Roman scheint doch deutlich autobiographische Züge des
Autors zu haben. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘This novel seems to have clear autobiograpfical traits of the au-
thor.’
proposition (P):
Dieser Roman hat deutlich autobiographische Züge des Autors.
evidential status/secondary predication:
Origo (i.e., the speaker) infers P from known facts (Q)
Similar analysis may be conducted for every instance of the evidential con-
struction scheinen & zu-infinitive, as well as for the other constructions
with werden, drohen and versprechen.
In Section 6.1 we used the werden-construction to exemplify that the
basic semantic template of evidential constructions is a relational structure
linking a source to an endpoint. This, too, applies to all four constructions
treated here, which, however, for reasons of space is explicated in detail
only for werden. As long as scheinen functions as a main verb, including
its copula and a number of its copula-like uses, it forms a main (and only
one) predication, i.e., scheinen is the essential part of the proposition:
(68) Heute scheint auch die Sonne mal wieder. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Today the sun is shining once again.’
proposition: Heute scheint auch die Sonne mal wieder.
paraphrase: Heute strahlt auch die Sonne mal wieder.
‘Today the sun is gleaming once again.’
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 187
For copula uses of scheinen the same situation holds. For copula-like uses
with the added zu-infinitive of the verb sein, the situation is more compli-
cated since in most cases the ambiguous interpretation between more lexi-
cal copula use and more grammaticalized evidential use is possible. The
semantic ambiguity originates from the structural ambiguity of such con-
structions: on the one hand, they resemble copula uses of scheinen in that
they can be “reduced” to them: Sie scheint krank zu sein > Sie scheint
krank; on the other hand, they resemble evidential uses of scheinen insofar
as they are infinitival construction of the form scheinen & zu-infinitive. For
this reason copula-like constructions with scheinen are often ambiguous
between more lexical – copula – readings of scheinen and more grammati-
cal – evidential – readings of this verb, cf.:
(69) … allerdings schien diesmal das Material noch besser zu sein als
sonst. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘… this time the material indeed seemed to be better than usual.’
lexical reading:
proposition: Das Material scheint diesmal noch besser als sonst.
paraphrase: Das Material sieht diesmal besser aus als sonst.
‘This time the material looks better than usual.’
grammatical reading:
proposition (P):
Das Material ist diesmal besser als sonst.
evidential status/secondary predication:
Origo (i.e. the speaker) infers P is from some accessible evidences (Q)
Often, the context conveys additional information which supports one or
another interpretation, cf.:
(70) Gaigern scheint hier draußen Stammgast zu sein, jedermann grüßt
und kennt ihn. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Gaigern seems to be a regular guest here, everyone greets and
knows him.’
In this example the evidential interpretation of scheinen is most appropriate
one, since the context gives exact information on which the statement is
based, i.e., it is an observation of the speaker that everyone greets Gaigern.
188 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
Thus scheinen serves here as an inferential evidential marker and should be
seen as a secondary predication, cf.:
proposition (P):
Gaigern ist hier draußen Stammgast.
‘Gaigern is a regular guest here.’
evidential status/secondary predication:
Origo (i.e. the speaker) infers P from Q [jedermann grüßt und kennt ihn]
Some formal characteristics of lexical vs. grammatical uses of scheinen
may be helpful for the interpretation of ambiguous readings. Scheinen as a
copula may in turn occur as an infinitive complement of other auxiliaries.
Evidential scheinen, on the contrary, does not occur as infinitival comple-
ment of other auxiliaries.
Furthermore, in copula-like constructions, lexical scheinen is often ac-
companied by adverbial complements. In such cases it will be obvious that,
if the verbal character of scheinen is specified, scheinen cannot be consi-
dered to be an auxiliary, but only a main verb forming the main proposition
of the sentence. The most frequent adverbial complements are heute ‘to-
day’, jetzt ‘now’, damals ‘at that time’, auf den ersten Blick ‘at first
glance’, nun ‘now, then’ etc. For evidential scheinen, however, it is im-
possible to add such adverbial complements: scheinen as an evidential
auxiliary serves itself to characterize the verbal event which is introduced
by the infinitival complement. Since scheinen has auxiliary status, it cannot
be further specified.
One important observation on lexical versus evidential scheinen de-
serves further attention here. We have found out that lexical scheinen does
not normally occur with first and second person subjects. This restriction is
implied in the core lexical semantics of this verb: a visual effect typically
comes from an entity which is distinct from the observer (and from the
second person which is a part of the communicative situation). Lexical
uses with the second person subjects are not fully absent, but they are very
rare. First person subjects are totally absent in lexical readings of scheinen.
Lexical scheinen does not have intentional semantics, i.e., it refers to the
situations where an effect or an impression is not intentionally caused by
the entity under consideration. Thus the uses of scheinen with first person
are blocked. In this point scheinen differs significantly from such verbs
like vorgeben ‘pretend’, täuschen ‘delude’ and others which do have inten-
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 189
tional semantics. In its evidential uses, however, scheinen does occur with
first person subjects, cf.:
(71) Ich scheine mich in der Tür geirrt zu haben. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘I seem to have taken the wrong door.’
That scheinen does not have any syntactic restrictions with regard to the
selection of its subjects anymore, is a convincing evidence for the high
degree of auxiliarization of evidential scheinen. It allows for combinations
with the first person subjects marking explicitly that the speaker’s statement about
himself/herself is based upon inference and is not made directly.
In sum, in this section we have listed some further points which provide
strong evidence for scheinen to be treated as a grammaticalized evidential
marker in PDG. Relying on these observations we claim that scheinen has
two general readings: the lexical reading with the variety of semantic inter-
pretations in specific constructions and the grammatical – evidential –
reading which is restricted to infinitive constructions which serve as sec-
ondary predications.
2.4. Two types of evidential scheinen and their conceptual relationship
As we have mentioned in the previous sections scheinen & zu-infinitive
may be attributed two distinct evidential readings in PDG. On the one
hand, this construction serves as a perceptual/conceptual inferential evi-
dential marker. On the other hand, it is used to express direct – mostly vis-
ual – evidential value. The two meanings may be paraphrased as follows:
perceptual/conceptual inferential value of scheinen & zu-infinitive:
P (proposition),
because Q1: Origo (i.e. the speaker) can observe some signs/traces of P
OR
because Q2: Origo (i.e. the speaker) knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P
direct evidential value of scheinen & zu-infinitive:
P (proposition)
and Q: Origo (i.e. the speaker) sees P
190 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
These two readings usually arise in particular contexts, so they can be easi-
ly distinguished from each other. Since a number of examples already have
been given for the former reading of the construction (see previous sec-
tions) the following examples from our corpus illustrate only the direct
evidential reading of scheinen & zu-infinitive:
(72) Jetzt will der Arm über den Kopf hinaus, um etwas zu verscheu-
chen ... jetzt krümmt er sich und scheint ein Gefäß umklammern zu
wollen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Now the arm is trying to move overhead to shoo something away
… now it is bending and seems to clasp a vessel.’
(73) Die blassen Wangen rötheten sich, auf der kahlen Stirn schwollen
die Adern, die Zähne schienen sich in einander zu beißen, als woll-
ten sie einen Schmerzlaut zurückhalten. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The pale cheeks turned red, the veins swelled on the bald fore-
head, the teeth seemed to clench as if they were trying to hold off a
sound of pain.’
In these examples scheinen can only be given direct evidential interpreta-
tion. It indicates that the speaker observes directly – visually – the de-
scribed event. The described situation P coincides with the time of perceiv-
ing the situation Q: scheinen & zu-infinitive marks that the ongoing
situation is directly observed by the speaker. The information that the sit-
uation is perceived directly at the time of speaking is added to the proposi-
tion describing the occurring event. Thus this information expressed by
scheinen & zu-infinitive can be conceived of as a secondary predication.
Note that the described situation P and the fact of seeing (perceiving)
this situation Q always coincide, i.e. P = Q. We have already mentioned in
Chapter 2 that this is the defining property of direct evidentials (understood
as deictic expressions). We can see that this property is present in the
above mentioned uses of scheinen. One important empirical observation
proves this fact: scheinen as a direct evidential occurs in past tense (as in
(73)). Due to the past occurrence of the described event the evidential spe-
cification thereof is also given in the corresponding tense. The coincidence
property has its formal representation on the linguistic level, in that it is
made transparent by the tense of the evidential construction.
Scheinen & zu-infinitive in its uses as indirect inferential construction,
on the other hand, shows the deictic ‘separation’ between the evidential
source Q and the described situation P. As we have found out, the inferen-
191
tial scheinen-construction does not usually occur in the past tense. The
particular location of the described situation in time is thus marked by the
infinitive itself. Therefore, a clear distinction of two different – direct and
indirect – evidential values of the construction scheinen & zu-infinitive
may be retraced not only semantically but morphosyntactically as well.
As for the relationship between two described evidential readings it can
be stated that the direct evidential value of scheinen is much more closely
connected to the lexical reading of the main verb scheinen. The component
of visual perception is still preserved in the meaning of the direct evidential
construction scheinen & zu-infinitive. The inferential evidential construc-
tion, on the other hand, is semantically more bleached. Therefore we can
speak of two different readings of evidential scheinen which are distin-
guished semantically as well as formally. The differences between two
types of evidential constructions point to the differences in their degrees of
grammaticalization.
Direct evidential scheinen shows a lesser degree of grammaticalization
and can be seen as an earlier stage in the grammaticalization of scheinen
towards indirect inferential evidential marker.
3. Drohen & zu-infinitive
The infinitive constructions with drohen and versprechen share the same
evidential value in PDG; they both serve as perceptual inferential construc-
tions. In this function they indicate that the described situation is inferred
by the speaker on the basis of some presently accessible information. The
information source is thus specified. On the one hand, the proposition is
marked as inferred, i.e., acquired through the inference process, and this is
the primary – indirect – evidential meaning of both drohen and verspre-
chen & zu-infinitive. On the other hand, the inference process is
represented as resulting from some presently accessible information. Thus
the pieces of information on which the inference process is based are nor-
mally perceived at the time of speaking and are closely linked (or even
identified) with the described situation/object and, furthermore, they can be
easily recognized by the hearer. In this respect the infinitive constructions
with drohen and versprechen differ from the constructions with scheinen
and werden described in previous sections.
In this section we will concentrate on the uses of the construction dro-
hen & zu-infinitive in PDG. More fine-grained semantic descriptions of the
construction readings in specific syntactic and contextual structures will be
Drohen & zu-infinitive
192 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
discussed in Section 6.3.3. The synchronic analyses of this construction
(e.g. Askedal 1997, Gunkel 2000, Kokutani 2004, Reis 2005) concentrate
to a large extent on finding differences, not similarities between various
meanings and uses of the verb drohen. We are however much more inter-
ested in discovering semantic features all uses of drohen have in common.
By revealing conceptual commonalities between various readings of dro-
hen we attempt to identify the functional status of the construction drohen
& zu-infinitive within the evolving evidential paradigm of German.
3.1. Relevant construction types of drohen in present-day German
In PDG the verb drohen shows several different readings. The majority of
German linguists dealing with this topic posit two distinct readings of the
verb drohen: the lexical reading on the one hand and the so called modal,
or epistemic, reading on the other (cf. Askedal 1997, Zifonun et al. 1997,
Eisenberg 2004, Gunkel 2000, Kokutani 2000 et al.). As has been sug-
gested by Heine and Miyashita 2004 and 2008, the verb drohen is asso-
ciated with the following four relevant constructions (the examples (74) to
(77) are taken from Heine and Miyashita 2008):
(74) Karl droht seinem Chef, ihn zu verklagen.
‘Karl threatens his boss with a lawsuit.’
(75) Uns droht nun eine Katastrophe.
‘We are now threatened by a disaster.’
(76) Das Hochwasser droht die Altstadt zu überschwemmen.
‘The high water threatens to flood the old town.’
(77) Mein Mann droht krank zu werden.
‘My husband threatens to fall ill.’
According to Heine and Miyashita 2008 the verb drohen in (74) is a lexical
main verb, while (76) “tends to be described as a raising construction,
more specifically a subject-to-subject raising construction” (Heine and
Miyashita 2008: 56). After having classified the (syntactic) constructions
of drohen into a four types the authors introduce a twofold (functional)
classification of the drohen-variants. These are said to be the lexical main
verb drohen (as in (74)) and the so-called functional verb drohen that is
usually referred to as the epistemic, subjective, modal, semi-modal, or
grammatical verb (exemplified in (75) to (77)). The following semantic
Drohen & zu-infinitive 193
paraphrases are given for the two types of drohen, respectively (Heine and
Miyashita 2008: 56):
lexical drohen:
‘Someone points out that s/he intends to do something that is undesir-
able to someone else.’
functional drohen:
‘Something undesirable is about to happen.’
In a similar way Reis 2005 distinguishes between two variants of drohen in
PDG. She terms them ‘agentive’ versus ‘non-agentive’ readings of the verb
and illustrates them by the following examples (examples together with
paraphrases are taken from Reis 2005: 125):
(78) Paul droht den Hund umzubringen.
a. ‚Paul verpflichtet sich (gegenüber jemandem), den Hund umzu-
bringen (falls nicht…).‘
‘Paul is committing himself to kill the dog (if not…).’
b. ‚Paul bringt, so wie es jetzt aussieht, den Hund um.‘
‘Paul is killing the dog, as it seems now.’
The first variant of drohen is said to be the lexical verb. The second variant
is classified as an obligatorily coherent raising-verb. Reis 2005 rejects the
notion of an epistemic or otherwise modal-like status of the second variant
of drohen and argues instead for treating it as a temporal-aspectual verb.
The fact that drohen occurs in two distinct readings in PDG is not con-
troversial. What is controversial, however, is the status of the second va-
riant of drohen. Should it be classified semantically as a modal, semi-
modal, epistemic, subjective, aspectual, or temporal verb? Should it be
seen syntactically as an auxiliary, semi-auxiliary or raising verb? We will
deal with such questions in the next sections and will put forward the hy-
pothesis that the second variant of drohen is best described as a relatively
highly grammaticalized auxiliary within the functional domain of (inferen-
tial) evidentiality. It should be noted, first, that we absolutely agree with
the commonly acknowledged classification of drohen that distinguishes
between its two variants. On the basis of our own corpus analysis we sug-
gest that there are (at least) three different readings of the verb drohen:
194 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
1. drohen as a (lexical) verb with agentive semantics;
2. drohen as a (lexical) verb with non-agentive semantics;
3. drohen as a grammatical (auxiliary or semi-auxiliary) verb with evi-
dential semantics.
From the three types listed above the first two correspond to what have
been called “lexical” drohen, and only the last type represents the gram-
matical, or functional, variant of the verb. Note that we qualify non-
agentive uses of drohen like in (75) lexical, whereas Heine and Miyashita
2008 identify them as belonging to the functional variant of this verb. Al-
though the meaning of drohen in (75) may be paraphrased as ‘Something
undesirable is likely to happen soon’, there are some relevant formal cha-
racteristics which do not allow for functional – or grammatical – classifica-
tion of this drohen-type. For example, this variant of drohen does not com-
bine with zu-infinitives (which would be most expectable for an auxiliary-
like verb), it does exhibit a valency relation to the subject of the sentence,
it does allow for (free) dative complements, it does allow for adverbial
modification, it may be itself a gerundival attribute, etc. Since it shares
these relevant properties with the first – lexical – drohen, it cannot be con-
sidered to be functional. Rather, it is a variant of lexical drohen with dis-
tinct semantics. We will come to this in more detail below.
Drohen as a main verb with agentive semantics shows the highest va-
riability with regard to its combinatorial possibilities. Its main distinctive
feature is that it normally occurs with animate subjects (and is not re-
stricted to the 3rd
person referents). It occurs with infinitives, with com-
plement clauses and with direct speech complements, it can further take a
dative participant and can be modified by adverbial complements or dative
complements with instrumental semantics. Drohen has the basic meaning
‘to threaten’ and has a strong intentional component which explains the
fact that this variant of drohen – with rare exceptions – is restricted to hu-
man subjects. Furthermore, it is a speech act verb without inherent perfor-
mative semantics.
The second variant of drohen with non-agentive semantics is usually re-
stricted to non-animate subjects (with negative semantics). The most fre-
quent subject is Gefahr ‘danger’, the combination of drohen and Gefahr
has nearly acquired the idiomatic status in PDG. Other subjects with nega-
tive semantics like Krieg ‘war’, Verlust ‘loss’, Untergang ‘fall’, Ausrot-
tung ‘extinction’, Strafverfahren ‘criminal procedure’, Katastrophe ‘catas-
trophe’ etc. are usually found in combination with this variant of drohen.
The crucial semantic difference to the first type of drohen is that an inten-
Drohen & zu-infinitive 195
tional component can hardly be attributed to the non-agentive drohen. This
variant of drohen also takes dative participants (as mir ‘to me’, uns ‘to
us’), it can be modified by adverbial complements and it shows the whole
range of inflectional forms, including periphrastic constructions. Note also
that this type of drohen is mostly restricted to the 3rd
person (inanimate)
subjects.
Drohen as a (relatively highly grammaticalized) evidential auxiliary is
restricted to the infinitive constructions, cf.:
(79) Wenn man also merkt, daß eine Diskussion (etwa über Politik) in
einen Streit auszuarten droht… (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘When one realizes that a discussion (for example about politics)
threatens to degenerate into a conflict…’
(80) Wenn ein Haus aus den Nähten zu platzen droht. (DWDS, Kern-
korpus)
‘When a house threatens to burst at the seams.’
(81) Sie bestehe aus Mitarbeitern JELZINs, einer mächtigen Korporati-
on unberechenbarer Leute aus seiner Umgebung, die das Land in
die Katastrophe zu führen drohten. (DWDS, Gesprochene
Sprache)
‘It consists of Jelzin’s collaborators, a powerful corporation of un-
predictable people around him which threatens to lead the country
into a catastrophe.’
As these examples from our corpus illustrate, the grammatical variant of
drohen shows no restrictions in regard to the subject of the sentence: it can
be either a human/animate or an inanimate subject. The meaning of this
drohen-variant can be paraphrased as follows:
The speaker has (had) perceptual access to certain pieces of information which s/he
interprets as pointing towards the described event (which is evaluated negatively
from the speaker’s point of view).
P (proposition), because Q: Origo (i.e. the speaker) can observe some signs/traces
of P; P is undesirable
The semantic difference between the lexical and the grammatical variants
of drohen is made clear in this paraphrase:
196 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
1. while the lexical reading does not imply any connection to the speaker,
the grammatical reading is always speaker-oriented, i.e., it is deictic;
2. while lexical drohen refers to an (undesirable) situation which is
represented by the subject of the sentence, grammatical drohen serves
as a secondary predication;
3. while lexical drohen does not entail any indication about the informa-
tion source (instead, it only denotes that something negative is going
to happen), grammatical drohen always relates the proposition to the
information pieces from which the proposition is inferred by the
speaker.
3.2. Lexical versus evidential drohen
In this section we are primarily concerned with the infinitive constructions
with drohen. From what we have described so far the occurrence of drohen
within infinitive constructions cannot be regarded as a defining property
for the evidential, i.e. grammatical variant of this verb. In contrast to wer-
den, which appears with infinitival complements only in its grammatical
reading, drohen (as well as versprechen and scheinen) within infinitive
constructions may serve both as lexical verb (82) and as grammatical aux-
iliary (83), cf.:
(82) Die Behörden drohten jedoch, Nadeshda Krupskaja in einem sol-
chen Fall in das Gouvernement Ufa auszuweisen. (DWDS, Kern-
korpus)
‘The authorities threatened however to expel Nadeshda Krupskaja
to the Governorate of Ufa, should this be the case.’
(83) Wenn ein Haus aus den Nähten zu platzen droht. (DWDS, Kern-
korpus)
‘When a house threatens to burst at the seams.’
Nevertheless, in most instances, these two readings of drohen can be diffe-
rentiated. In the following we are dealing with those factors that usually
serve as disambiguating devices. From these observations we hope to be
able to draw some important conclusions, which concern the relevant prop-
erties of the contexts triggering one of the two distinct readings and the
relevant properties of grammatical (as opposed to lexical) drohen. From
there we hope to discover changes occurred to drohen on the way from
lexical verb to evolving evidential auxiliary.
Drohen & zu-infinitive 197
The characteristics of drohen and its immediate constituents have been
extensively investigated in the last few years (e.g. Askedal 1997, Gunkel
2000, Heine and Miyashita 2004, 2008, Kokutani 2004, Diewald 2004,
Reis 2005 et al.). We first summarize the relevant factors focusing on the
characteristics of evidential drohen as opposed to lexical drohen within
infinitive constructions:
1. there are no restrictions with regard to the animacy and intentionality
of the subject referent (subject may be impersonal, and a complement
clause);
2. there is no semantic relation to the subject, instead, drohen modifies
the whole proposition (i.e., it has the status of the secondary predica-
tion);
3. drohen has a limited inflectional paradigm (no periphrastic forms, no
infinitives, no imperatives, no passive forms);
4. extraposition of the infinitive complement is not possible;
5. pronominalization of the infinitive complement is not possible;
6. adverbial modification of drohen is not possible;
7. clausal complements are not possible (dass-, damit-clauses, indirect
and direct speech complement clauses);
8. drohen cannot be topicalized and nominalized.
As we have described in Chapter 4, all these parameters reveal high degree
of grammaticalization of the functional variant of drohen in contrast to its
lexical counterpart(s). In addition to the factors listed above there are some
further points which have been mentioned in the literature and are mainly
concerned with the semantics of infinitive verbs. The nature of the verbal
process introduced by the infinitival complement has been considered very
important for the disambiguating between two distinct readings of drohen.
Gunkel (2000: 116) formulates the following restriction for the functional
variant (which he calls ‘modal’): “Modales drohen/versprechen kann keine
Verben einbetten, die eine Handlung bezeichnen” [‘The modal variant of
drohen/versprechen cannot combine with infinitive verbs which denote an
action’]. He admits however that drohen in its ‘modal’ reading occurs with
infinitive verbs designating intentional events (examples taken from
Gunkel 2000: 117):
(84) Die feindlichen Truppen drohen die Stadt zu erobern.
‘The enemy troops threaten to conquer the town.’
198 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
(85) Die Schwiegermutter drohte uns zu besuchen.
‘The mother-in-law threatened to visit us.’
Gunkel 2000 rightly points out that the subject role is not conceptualized as
an agens in such cases. Instead the holistic view of the event is taken: the
situation is described as a whole (we will return to this further below).
Therefore the situation is not seen as a process which is controlled and
fulfilled by an agens but rather as an event which happens due to its own
dynamics. Gunkel (2000: 118) proposes a subdivision of events into inten-
tional versus non-intentional events. Thereby the mechanism of the so-
called ‘sort shift’ is proposed, due to which verbal semantics may be
‘shifted’ between intentional and non-intentional. This attempt is rather
problematic as it starts from the assumption that there is only one variant
of drohen and shows how the infinitives trigger different readings of this
verb. It fails however to explain under which circumstances and due to
which factors an ‘event’-verb has the ‘intentional’ or ‘non-intentional’
interpretation.
We argue here for another view on the ambiguity of drohen & zu-
infinitive between lexical and grammatical readings. In place of searching
for factors determining one or another reading of the construction in par-
ticular communicative contexts, which are undoubtedly very important for
the particular interpretation of the construction in use, we concentrate on
the grammatical – as arising from the grammaticalization process – nature
of the evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive. In our view the abili-
ty of evidential drohen to combine with animate subjects and infinitive
verbs denoting intentional events/processes and even actions is due to its
high degree of grammaticalization. In other words, the occurrence of dro-
hen & zu-infinitive with infinitive verbs denoting actions and intentional
events should be seen as a consequence of the increasing degree of gram-
maticalization of this construction. That is, drohen as a lexical verb usually
combines with verbs denoting an action. The verbal process of the infini-
tive verb is seen as intended by the subject of the sentence. In the course of
its grammaticalization process a reinterpretation of the core semantics of
the lexical verb drohen takes place: drohen comes to be used in contexts
with infinitive verbs designating states and non-intentional events (and
with non-intentional subjects). In such contexts the core lexical meaning of
drohen is ruled out. What happens is the reinterpretation of the lexical
semantics in the sense of ‘something undesirable is about/going to happen’.
The process of grammaticalization, including the mechanisms of semantic
bleaching and generalization, continues: drohen gradually loses semanti-
Drohen & zu-infinitive 199
cally motivated restrictions with regard to the choice of its infinitive com-
plements. Due to this process other verbs come to serve as infinitives of
grammaticalized drohen. As a consequence of the increasing degree of
grammaticalization drohen gains the ability to combine with any infinitive
verb and starts to function as a typical auxiliary (for the details of the his-
torical development of evidential drohen in German, see Chapter 8.3).
Taking this into account, the fact that ambiguous interpretations of dro-
hen & zu-infinitive arise in PDG if drohen combines with action verbs is
not surprising. This is only the natural result of the grammaticalization
process via which drohen as evidential auxiliary develops. We believe that,
instead of searching for restrictions with regard to the infinitive verbs of
the grammaticalized verb drohen, one should rather look for those restric-
tions for lexical drohen.
Gunkel 2000 has proposed that if we are dealing with the grammatical
variant of drohen, the holistic perspective on the event is taken, which is
not the case for the lexical drohen. Taking into account principles of
grammaticalization, this change of perspective may be easily explained.
Drohen as a lexical verb serves as a primary predication of the sentence,
i.e., it says something about the subject of the sentence. Namely lexical
drohen expresses that the subject is going to do something (to perform an
action). The infinitive complement explicates what exact the subject is
going to do.
(86) Diesmal drohen die Abonnenten, die ‘Neue Freie Presse’ zu be-
strafen... (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘This time the subscribers are threatening to punish the ‘Neue Freie
Presse’.’
Drohen as (a relatively highly grammaticalized) evidential auxiliary, on the
other hand, serves as a secondary predication. In this function drohen pro-
vides additional information to the proposition, i.e., information about the
evidential status of the proposition. As such, drohen is not closely linked to
the subject of the sentence. Instead, it predicates something about the (evi-
dential) status of the whole proposition including the subject of the sen-
tence and the infinitive verb (together with its possible complements).
(87) Berichte, die recht interessant zu lesen sind, der Konferenz aber
ihren Charakter als eines Meinungsaustausches über wichtige
Fragen zu rauben drohten. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
200 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
‘Reports, which are very interesting to read but threaten to steal
from the conference its character as an exchange of views.’
From this it is not surprising that the perspective from which the situation
is seen changes from a narrow perspective, which concentrates on the ac-
tion introduced by the infinitive complement, to a wider holistic perspec-
tive, which embraces the situation represented by the whole proposition.
Furthermore, there are some more observations that favor the account of
drohen & zu-infinitive proposed here. Due to the increasing degree of
grammaticalization drohen gains the capacity to take infinitives of different
types. So, grammatical drohen occurs also with passive infinitives:
(88) Und nun steigt der Rhein … zu einst so seltener Höhe an, droht der
Wasserstand des Jahres 1920 wieder erreicht zu werden. (DWDS,
Kernkorpus)
‘Now the Rhein is rising to a level seldom previously reached and
threatening to reach the level of the year 1920.’
This combinatorial possibility is not possible for lexical drohen. Since a
verb in passive voice cannot refer to an action it cannot combine with lexi-
cal drohen. As grammatical drohen, on the other hand, does not show any
restrictions with regard to the semantic nature (particularly, to the process
type expressed by the verb) of its infinitive complement, this combination
is not ruled out.
By way of conclusion, we can add a further point to the list of proper-
ties that serve to distinguish grammatical drohen from its lexical variant:
9. there are no restrictions with regard to the semantic nature of the infi-
nitive, whereas lexical drohen is restricted to infinitive complements
denoting actions.
3.3. The perceptual inferential value of evidential drohen
In the previous sections we have shown that there are two distinct readings
of the construction drohen & zu-infinitive in PDG. In the following we will
argue for treating drohen & zu-infinitive as a perceptual evidential con-
struction providing the results of our synchronic corpus investigation. In
the literature the semantics of the construction drohen & zu-infinitive is
mostly described as pertaining to the domain of epistemic modality (cf.
Drohen & zu-infinitive 201
Askedal 1997, Heine and Miyashita 2004, Zifonun et al. 1997, Engel
2004). In this view drohen & zu-infinitive is seen to express a degree of the
speaker’s commitment to the truth value of the proposition. Some authors
(e.g. Reis 2005: 128) do not agree with this position and consider drohen
to be a temporal-aspectual verb that locates the described event in the im-
mediate future (with a note that this is done by the speaker on the basis of
some available evidences). We argue that drohen & zu-infinitive is an evi-
dential construction (for a similar view see Diewald 2004). The distinct
semantic feature of any evidential marker is the indication of the informa-
tion source, i.e., the indication of the way in which the speaker acquired
the information contained in the proposition. The information source indi-
cated by drohen & zu-infinitive is inference: any proposition introduced by
this construction is based on the inference (as information source).
Consider the following examples:
(89) Die Hintersten drängten rücksichtlos nach und die Vordersten
wurden so unwiderstehlich gegen uns geschoben, daß das gesamte
Bureau mit seinem Tisch über die Rampe in den Saal hinabzufallen
drohte. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The backmost were pushing ruthlessly and the front line was be-
ing irresistibly pushed against us, so that the whole bureau with its
desk threatened to fall over the ramp into the hall.’
(90) Der Stand ist folgender: Spitzengruppe Lorenz - Saldow, Poulain -
Miquel, de Mara - Stabe, Rudel - Pawke, Arend - Hübner; eine
Runde zurück Techmer - Großmann, zwei Runden zurück Marx -
Finn, vier Runden zurück Neumer - Rosellen. Während Lorenz -
Saldow sich am frischesten fühlen, drohen Arend - Hübner jeden
Augenblick aus der Spitzengruppe zurückzufallen. (DWDS, Kern-
korpus)
‘The actual state is as follows: the top flight …, one lap behind …,
two laps behind…, four laps behind… While Lorenz and Saldow
feel fresh, Arend and Hübner are threatening to fall out of the top
flight any moment.’
The situations here are represented as developing towards a certain end
point which is introduced by drohen. From the context it is obvious that the
situations are directly perceived by the speaker and the portions of the texts
containing drohen describe situations which are not realized yet but are the
likely end point of the ongoing development. Thus the events introduced
202 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
by drohen are definitely inferred by the speaker on the basis of presently
accessible information. In such cases the perceptual inferential evidential
value of drohen is out of question.
There are however a number of contexts in which the perceptual infe-
rential evidential value of drohen is not as obvious as in the above exam-
ples:
(91) Schon der wachsende Einfluß fundamentalistischer Christen und
ihre lärmende Forderung nach einem Verbot der Abtreibung und
der Rückkehr zu traditionell-reaktionären Werten droht die Partei
zu spalten. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The increasing influence of fundamentalist Christians and their
noisy demands for the prohibition of abortion and a return to tradi-
tionally reactionary values atr threatening to split the party.’
In cases like these, there is hardly any presently accessible piece of infor-
mation to be detected. However, it is clear that the situation introduced by
drohen is seen as a consequence from what is manifest in some way at the
time of speaking. In each case the inference process starts from the speak-
er’s present experience and results in the conclusion expressed by drohen.
Some further examples from our corpus show that this interpretation of the
construction drohen & zu-infinitive can be applied easily:
(92) Der erhöhte Posttarif droht vielen Geschäften zum Verhängnis zu
werden. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The raised postal rate threatens to be the downfall of many stores.’
(93) Da wird mit Petroleumöfen geheizt, dann droht das Flugzeug zu
brennen. (DWDS, Gesprochene Sprache)
‘They use kerosine stoves for heating, then the plane threatens to
burn.’
The interpretation of the construction as a marker of epistemic modality is,
as we think, not appropriate. Relating the proposition to (the information
source of) the speaker, drohen does not attach a particular degree of speak-
er’s confidence to the proposition: it only indicates that the proposition is
the result of the inference process. The same holds also for the other evi-
dential construction concerned here. They all are semantically neutral with
respect to their degree of epistemic modal evaluation because they do not
entail such evaluations in their inherent semantics (see Chapter 3 for fur-
Drohen & zu-infinitive 203
ther details). In contrast to Reis 2005, we do not regard the temporal-
aspectual interpretation of the construction as basic, but as a case of persis-
tence of more lexical components of the item (note that a speech act of
threatening per definition refers to some imminent action).
Let us now turn to the lexical readings of the verb drohen. Taking for
granted that evidential drohen has evolved through the process of gram-
maticalization out of its lexical reading(s) we look for similarities and
possible motivations for the present – evidential inferential – value of the
construction drohen & zu-infinitive. For the details of the diachronic de-
velopment and overlapping meanings see Chapter 8.3. We propose that the
agentive variant of lexical drohen served as a structural template enabling
the grammaticalization of drohen & zu-infinitive. The infinitive comple-
ment of lexical drohen introduces an action which is the “content” of the
threat. Thus drohen installs the threat, which is the announcement of a
(future, possible, avoidable, negative, undesirable, etc.) action, and the
infinitive complement describes that action. A similar – though highly
schematized – structure is preserved in the inferential semantics of drohen
& zu-infinitive. The evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive installs
an analogous relationship between the inference on which the statement is
based – as information source – and the proposition. The infinitive verb
describes the situation: in the case of grammatical drohen the situation
does not follow the threat but results from the inference process of the
speaker. Hence the abstract semantic structure of drohen has been pre-
served in the grammatical reading of this verb.
As concerns the second lexical reading of the verb drohen, it also shows
relevant characteristics resembling the evidential construction drohen &
zu-infinitive. As has been rightly pointed out by Heine and Miyashita 2004,
2008 this lexical reading diachronically precedes the grammatical variant
of drohen. Moreover it gave rise to the development of the grammatical
reading of drohen, since it already was able to be combined with inanimate
subjects. The assumption made by Heine and Miyashita 2004, 2008, that
the development of the infinitive construction occurred due to the exten-
sion from nominal to non-finite complements, will however be criticized
and refined (see Chapter 8.3). We suggest that the second lexical reading
“paved the way” for the grammaticalization of the evidential construction
drohen & zu-infinitive not only because it allowed for inanimate subjects
to be combined with drohen. In our view the holistic perspective on the
situation has been established by such syntactic combinations. In the struc-
tures like Gefahr droht, Katastrophe droht, Krieg droht etc., the noun re-
fers to the whole situation, i.e., it comprises the whole situation in one
204 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
nominal expression. On the one hand, the whole situation is introduced by
the single verb drohen now. On the other hand, the static view of the situa-
tion is represented, i.e., the situation is seen as a state which is going to be
the fact soon, cf.:
(94) Hin und wieder drohte Regen... (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘Every now and then rain threatened.’
It can generally be said that the holistic and static view of the situation is
represented by the second lexical reading of drohen. In order to express the
situation from the dynamic perspective, a verb is needed. We think that not
the extension but the reformulation of the single noun referring to the nega-
tive situation by means of an infinitive was the crucial step towards the
evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive. The syntactic structure was
already available: the first lexical reading of drohen already allowed for
combinations with infinitives. This structure was analogically recruited for
the new structure. As a result, the present evidential construction drohen &
zu-infinitive developed.
Importantly, the non-agentive variant of drohen already bears some
components of evidential semantics (cf. also Heine and Miyashita 2004,
2008 who explicitly paraphrase this reading with the same formula as they
use for their ‘functional’ drohen). It introduces a situation which is not
realized yet, but is likely to occur soon. Namely, the “threatening” situation
is likely to occur, because something in the present situation points towards
it. That is, already at this – still lexical – stage drohen develops evidential
semantics.
To conclude, we have tried to show that the evidential characterization
of the relatively highly grammaticalized construction drohen & zu-
infinitive is the most appropriate description of the present function of this
construction. We have proposed that semantically the grammatical variant
of drohen is closely connected to both lexical readings of this verb. More-
over we have suggested that the core evidential meaning goes back to the
second lexical reading of drohen. In this reading drohen already relates the
described situation to some present factors which point towards the
“threatening” situation.
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 205
4. Versprechen & zu-infinitive
In this section we are concerned with the construction versprechen & zu-
infinitive. It should be noted, first, that this construction is very closely
connected with the construction drohen & zu-infinitive described in the
previous section. First, they show similarities in regard to their composi-
tional structure (cf. Askedal 1982, Reis 2005). Second, they show semantic
affinities (cf. Askedal 1982, Heine and Miyashita 2004, 2008, Diewald
2004, Reis 2005) in that they predicate something about the ontological
status of the proposition and function on the propositional level. For this
reason the verbs drohen and versprechen (and their infinitive construc-
tions) have often been investigated jointly by several authors (see e.g.
Askedal 1997, Diewald 2004, Heine and Miyashita 2004, Reis 2005 for
German; cf. further Cornillie 2004, 2005 for Spanish; Traugott 1997 for
English; Verhagen 2000, Vliegen 2006 for Dutch).
The observed similarities between the infinitive constructions with dro-
hen and versprechen are due to the fact that they are (gradually becoming)
members of the same grammatical paradigm, i.e., the evolving paradigm of
inferential evidentiality of German. They represent the same distinct evi-
dential value within the paradigm, i.e., the perceptual inferential evidential
value, and stay in opposition to the other paradigm members. Note that
they differ from one another in that drohen expresses a negative evalua-
tion, whereas versprechen indicates a positive evaluation of the described
event.
However, the story becomes more complicated if one looks closely at
the details. Infinitive constructions with evidential drohen are much more
frequent in PDG than those with evidential versprechen (cf. also Cornillie
2004, 2005 for Spanish, Vliegen 2006 for German and Dutch for similar
observations). Furthermore evidential versprechen & zu-infinitive still
shows restrictions with regard to subjects and infinitive verbs, i.e., the se-
lection mechanisms of evidential versprechen & zu-infinitive are more
restricted and thus less entrenched than those of drohen & zu-infinitive. On
the basis of these and other observations (which will be presented below)
we suggest that versprechen has not acquired the same degree of grammat-
icalization yet.
This section is structured in the following fashion: we first give a brief
outline of the relevant construction types of versprechen in PDG (relying
primarily on our own corpus analysis, but also considering the relevant
research literature). In the next step we concentrate on the construction
versprechen & zu-infinitive and uncover its semantic and structural proper-
206 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
ties in more detail. In so doing we mainly deal with the above mentioned
similarities and differences between the infinitive constructions with dro-
hen and versprechen. Finally we propose an explanation for the con-
strained or even missing grammaticalization of versprechen towards an
evidential auxiliary, from the synchronic point of view.
4.1. Relevant construction types of versprechen in present-day German
Usually two distinct readings of the verb versprechen are distinguished in
the literature: the lexical reading and the so-called ‘modal’, ‘functional’ or
‘epistemic’ reading (cf. Askedal 1982, 1997; Zifonun et al. 1997; Engel
2004; Eisenberg 2004; Heine and Miyashita 2004; Reis 2005 et al.). These
two distinct readings are exemplified by the following examples (taken
from Askedal 1997: 12):
(95) Er hatte seiner Tochter versprochen, sie nach Paris mitzunehmen.
‘He had promised his daughter to take her to Paris.’
(96) … die großen Erfindungen, die dieser Streit hervorzurufen ver-
sprach.
‘… the great inventions which this dispute promised to bring
forth.’
In general the situation is very similar to drohen. In view of the very high
functional variability of the verb versprechen (the list of possible meanings
and structures employing the verb versprechen presented in the DWB, for
example, lasts for several pages), we concentrate in the following only on
the occurrences of versprechen that we have found in our corpus material.
It should be noted here that we excluded the intransitive reflexive verb sich
versprechen meaning ‘to misspeak’ from our analysis, since it no longer
has any considerable semantic (but just etymological) connections to the
contemporary meaning of the verb versprechen we are dealing with here.
On the basis of our corpus findings, we basically agree with the above
mentioned twofold classification. These are indeed the most common uses
of the verb in the PDG. However we would like to add two further variants
of versprechen to the list: the non-agentive versprechen and the construc-
tion sich etwas (von etwas) versprechen ‘to expect something of some-
thing’ where versprechen is a transitive reflexive verb. The reasons why
we include this construction in our analysis will be discussed further be-
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 207
low. Our classification of the relevant readings of the verb versprechen
consists thus of the four following entries:
1. versprechen as a speech act verb with agentive semantics;
2. versprechen as a lexical verb with non-agentive semantics;
3. sich etwas von etwas versprechen as a lexical(ized) construction with
non-agentive semantics, expressing the personal view of the subject on
the situation;
4. versprechen as an auxiliary (or: semi-auxiliary) verb with evidential
semantics.
For these readings the following semantic paraphrases can be formulated:
1. ‘Someone points out that s/he intends to do something (that is desira-
ble to someone else or to him/herself)’.
2. ‘Something positive (desirable) is about to happen’.
3. ‘Someone expects something positive (desirable) from something
else’.
4. ‘Something points towards something else, which is positive (desira-
ble) and is about to happen’.
The last paraphrase will be modified further below. It is given here in this
form for reasons of simplification and better comparability with other read-
ings. The proposed four variants of versprechen usually correspond to the
certain structures:
1. human subject referent & versprechen & (facultative) dative object &
accusative object (NP)/(in)direct speech sentence/complement clause
with dass/zu-infinitive complement/main clause;
2. inanimate subject & versprechen & accusative object (NP);
3. versprechen & sich & PP with von & accusative object (NP);
4. versprechen & zu-infinitive.
The first variant of versprechen has the basic meaning ‘to promise’ and
exhibits a strong intentional component which explains the fact that its use
is mostly restricted to human subjects:
(97) Ich hatte ihnen versprochen, wenn sie artig wären, etwas vorzule-
sen. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘I promised them to read something to them if they behaved well.’
208 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
The second type of versprechen, i.e. the non-agentive lexical verb, is usual-
ly restricted to non-animate subjects and occurs with accusative objects
with positive evaluative semantics. The most frequent noun thereby is Er-
folg ‘success’. Further nouns with positive evaluative semantics are also
found in combination with this variant of versprechen, e.g. Genuss ‘plea-
sure’, Erlösung ‘salvation’, Vergnügen ‘amusement’, Nutzen ‘advantage’,
Spaß ‘fun’, Sicherheit ‘safeness’, etc.
(98) Das verspricht aber keinen großen Erfolg. (DWDS, Kernkorpus).
‘This is however not very promising.’
The crucial semantic difference to the first type of versprechen is that an
intentional component can hardly be attributed to the non-agentive ver-
sprechen. Rather, it describes a whole situation which is seen as being
likely to occur in the future. This type of versprechen is mostly restricted
to the 3rd
person (inanimate) subjects.
The third lexical reading of versprechen, which is associated with the
fixed syntactic structure sich NPacc von NPdat versprechen has specific
semantics and expresses someone’s personal expectation. In this reading
versprechen introduces someone’s personal view of the described situa-
tion, particularly expressing the subject’s positive evaluation of the ongo-
ing development.
(99) Ich verspreche mir gerade von dieser Kombination gute Erfolge.
(DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘I hope [lit.: promise to me] to achieve success with this combina-
tion.’
The personal attitude is made clear by the obligatory dative reflexive pro-
noun. We will show in the following sections that the development of this
particular variant of versprechen might have served as one of the constrain-
ing factors in the evolution of the evidential construction versprechen &
zu-infinitive. Since this particular structure has been lexicalized and has
received the status of a conventional lexical unit, it has established a par-
ticular meaning which is one of the possible interpretations of the eviden-
tial meaning of the grammaticalizing construction versprechen & zu-
infinitive. In this way it “reserved” this semantics and restricted the new
grammatical construction in its “attempts” to include this meaning as well.
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 209
As the development of this lexical reading has influenced the develop-
ment of the evidential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive to a consi-
derable extent, we have decided to include it in our analysis.
The evidential variant of versprechen is mostly associated with zu-
infinitive constructions and is used only with inanimate subjects:
(100) …und nach längerem Suchen und nachdem er ihn mit den Zähnen
getestet hatte, fand Kürenberg einen Reis, der körnig zu kochen
versprach. (IDS-Corpora, W)
‘… and after a lengthy search and after testing it with his teeth,
Kürenberg found a type of rice which promised to boil grainy.’
At this point we would like to refine the semantic paraphrase for the evi-
dential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive given above. We suggest
that this construction has the same evidential value as the construction
drohen & zu-infinitive and differs from it only in regard to the additional
evaluative semantic component. Therefore the paraphrase is largely iden-
tical to what has been given for drohen & zu-infinitive in the previous
chapter:
The speaker has perceptual access to certain pieces of information which s/he in-
terprets as pointing towards the described event (which is evaluated positively from
the speaker’s point of view).
P (proposition), because Q: Origo (i.e. the speaker) can observe some signs/traces
of P; P is desirable
We should add some words about the perceptual nature of the inferential
evidential value of versprechen & zu-infinitive. Similarly to drohen & zu-
infinitive, versprechen & zu-infinitive mostly indicates that the inference
process of the speaker is based upon some pieces of information which are
somehow relevant and obvious at the time of speaking.
The factor of obviousness is given if the information is either directly
perceived or observed at the time of speaking, or it is made directly access-
ible at the time of speaking. In each case the inference process starts from
the speaker’s presently accessible experience and results in the conclusion
expressed by drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive.
210 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
4.2. Lexical versus evidential versprechen
As noted in Section 6.3 the construction drohen & zu-infinitive has both –
lexical as well as evidential – readings in PDG. A similar situation can also
be observed for the construction versprechen & zu-infinitive (see examples
(95) and (96)). These two readings can however always be distinguished as
they occur in different contextual environments.
Hence we can speak of a clear division of labor between lexical and
grammatical versprechen, insofar as each interpretation is restricted to
specific contextual configurations. This also means that the factors charac-
teristic for one reading are exclusively characteristic for it.
The features of versprechen and its immediate constituents have been
described earlier (e.g. Askedal 1997, Gunkel 2000, Heine and Miyashita
2004, Reis 2005). A list of the relevant characterisitcs given in Table 1 is
based on the findings found in the literature as well as on our own observa-
tions.
Table 1. Lexical versus grammatical versprechen
lexical versprechen grammatical verspre-
chen
subject referent animate, agentive
1st
, 2nd
, 3rd
person
referents
inanimate, non-
agentive only 3rd
per-
son referents
versprechen bears
semantic relation to…
the subject the whole proposition
inflectional paradigm full limited
extraposition of the infinitive
complement possible?
yes no
pronominalization of the infi-
nitive complement possible?
yes no
adverbial modification of
versprechen possible?
yes no
clausal complements
possible?
yes no
topicalization/
pronominalization/
passivization of versprechen
possible?
yes no
dative participant yes no
infinitive verb denotes… an action a non-action
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 211
We concentrate here only on two properties, the subject referent and the
infinitive verb. Other characteristics have already been extensively dis-
cussed in earlier works on this topic (see especially Askedal 1997 and
Heine and Miyashita 2004). Only inanimate referents can take the subject
position in a sentence with the evidential versprechen & zu-infinitive. If a
human subject referent is used, only lexical reading is possible. Collective
referents such as Regierung ‘government’, Staat ‘country’, Partei ‘party’,
Unternehmen ‘company’, etc. also fall into the category of human subjects.
They are able to perform an illocutionary act (even if the act itself is nor-
mally performed by a person who is a member of a collective) and there-
fore are compatible with the prototypical lexical reading of versprechen.
It should also be noted that inanimate subject referents may sometimes
occur with lexical versprechen & zu-infinitive if they allow for a metonym-
ic interpretation, cf.:
(101) Der letzte der dreizehn Punkte versprach, die Integrität Norwe-
gens zu achten und uns nach dem Krieg unsere Unabhängigkeit zu-
rückzugeben. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘The last of the thirteen articles promised to respect the integrity of
Norway and to give us our independence back after the war.’
The subject referent Punkt ‘article’ is used metonymically and it represents
an oral statement that has been written down in the form of a document
containing several articles. Thus the subject refers literally to a promise
given by some human referent which is available in the written form now.
Other subject referents used metaphorically with lexical versprechen are
e.g. Buch ‘book’, Titel ‘title’, Kapitel ‘chapter’ etc. Hence even inanimate
subjects used with lexical versprechen are seen as referring to the illocu-
tionary act of promising. To conclude: as far as the aspect of animacy and
agentivity of the subject referent is concerned, two readings of versprechen
(within infinitive constructions) seem to be mutually exclusive. The lexical
reading is restricted to animate and agentive subject referents, whereas the
grammatical reading is restricted to inanimate and non-agentive subject
referents. Moreover it should be noted that the grammatical reading of
versprechen has even more restrictions with regard to their subjects: it
combines only with 3rd
person subject referents. In its lexical reading, on
the other hand, versprechen occurs with all personal forms. This fact can
be seen as resulting from what we have stated above: inanimate subjects
can hardly be understood as being speaker or hearer, the roles to which the
1st
and 2nd
person inflexions correlate. From this, 1st
and 2nd
person subjects
212 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
are excluded from the evidential uses of the construction versprechen &
zu-infinitive.3
The next relevant point we would like to address here is the nature of
the infinitive verb combining with versprechen. As has been noted by
Gunkel (2000: 116), grammatical versprechen does not occur with infini-
tive verbs denoting an action. We have shown in the preceding chapter that
this claim does not hold for evidential drohen. For versprechen, however,
this restriction does hold in PDG. The most frequent infinitive verb of evi-
dential versprechen is werden ‘become’ that unambiguously denotes a
process which is not intended by the subject of the utterance, cf.:
(102) London steht in den nächsten Wochen vor einer Versteigerung von
Autographen und Büchern, die bei Sotheby - zu einer großen Sen-
sation zu werden verspricht. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘In the next weeks London will experience an auction of auto-
graphs and books which promises to be a big sensation at Sothe-
by’s.’
Further infinitive verbs found with evidential versprechen are enthalten
‚contain‘, weichen ‚lose ground‘, Aufschwung nehmen ‚boom‘, bieten ‘of-
fer’: their semantics can be best described as non-agentive, non-intended
and non-controlled by the subject referent. Rather they denote a state or an
unintended event, in short: non-actions. In its lexical reading, on the other
hand, versprechen most frequently combines with infinitive verbs referring
to intended and controlled actions (which are carried out by intentional
subjects), e.g. unterstützen ‚support‘, helfen ‚help‘, nehmen ‚take‘, Hilfe
leisten ‚give aid‘, Maßnahmen ergreifen ‚take action‘, geben ‚give‘,
schicken ‚send‘, schenken ‚make a gift‘, erzählen ‚tell‘, tun ‚do‘ etc. Hence
we again observe that two readings of versprechen within infinitive con-
structions are mutually exclusive: the lexical reading is most often re-
stricted to action verbs whereas the grammatical reading is associated with
verbs denoting non-actions.
4.3. Drohen & zu-infinitive versus versprechen & zu-infinitive
In this section we compare the evidential constructions with drohen and
versprechen and focus primarily on their differences. Let us first summar-
ize the relevant properties these two constructions have in common:
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 213
1. they both function as evidential constructions in PDG, sharing the
same evidential value: they mark the described event as inferred on the
basis of some (perceptually) founded facts (see Chapters 6.3.3 and
6.4.1);
2. they both show the high degree of grammaticalization (see Chapter 4);
3. drohen and versprechen still show persistence of some semantic as-
pects from their lexical meanings: they introduce events which are not
realized, but rather expected; they express a particular evaluation of
the described event, i.e., while drohen refers to negatively evaluated
situations and provides those with the label ‘undesirable’, versprechen
introduces positively evaluated situations, which can be labeled ‘desir-
able’ (from the speaker’s point of view)’;
4. both drohen and versprechen with infinitives are similar in their lexi-
cal readings with respect to the following restrictions: they mostly oc-
cur with animate (individual or collective) subjects which take control
over the event represented in the infinitive complement; their infini-
tives express an action which is controlled or fulfilled by the subject;
5. there are some features which are typical for evidential readings of
both verbs: they mostly take an inanimate subject which can not be in-
terpreted as having control over the event presented in the infinitive
complement; the infinitives describe an event rather than an action.
Apart from these similarities there are, however, considerable differences
between the evidential infinitive constructions with drohen and verspre-
chen in PDG. First, the evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive is
much more frequent in PDG than the construction versprechen & zu-
infinitive. This fact has been already observed in other studies (e.g. Asked-
al 1997 and Vliegen 2006) and is confirmed by the results of our own cor-
pus investigation. Therefore this fact cannot be considered to be a mere
coincidence. Given the fact that both verbs undergo a parallel process of
grammaticalization, as has been shown in the previous chapters and will be
discussed in more detail in the diachronic part of this volume, one might
assume that the frequency of both constructions would show equal or at
least to a large extent similar value. However, given massive differences in
frequency between drohen and versprechen, this fact requires explanation.
For the synchronic part of our study we looked through a random selection
of 2000 instances of drohen and versprechen respectively, covering the
20th
and 21st
centuries. The following table shows the figures for the distri-
bution of lexical and grammatical readings of the two constructions found
in our corpus data.
214 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
Table 2. The distribution of lexical and grammatical readings of the infinitive con-
structions with drohen and versprechen in PDG
infinitive
construc-
tion
lexical
reading
evidential
reading
%
lexical
%
evidential
drohen 603 133 470 22,0 80,0
versprechen 265 237 28 89,4 10,6
Second, evidential drohen sometimes occurs with animate subjects, as we
have mentioned above (see Section 6.3.2). Evidential versprechen, on the
other hand, never occurs with animate subjects.
Third, evidential drohen takes infinitives which encode an action (e.g.
bereiten ‘prepare’, schaffen ‘create’, niederdrücken ‘press down’, vernich-
ten ‘destroy’, brechen ‘break’, sprengen ‘detonate’ etc.), combining with
inanimate as well as animate subjects (see Section 6.3.2). Evidential ver-
sprechen, on the other hand, never occurs with action verbs. As noted in
Section 6.3.2, evidential drohen also takes passive infinitives, which is not
possible for evidential versprechen. By way of conclusion we can state at
this point that versprechen is far less grammaticalized as an evidential aux-
iliary than drohen.
Now the question arises why versprechen has not been grammaticalized
as an evidential auxiliary to the same extent as drohen. In what follows we
will propose a tentative explanation bringing together some observations
about synchronic status of versprechen. The first possible explanation for
the constrained grammaticalization process of versprechen & zu-infinitive
is the strong speech act semantics of this verb. This leads to a heavy do-
minance of animate, mostly human subjects associated with versprechen.
Furthermore this makes it difficult for non-human subjects to be associated
with versprechen, particularly when versprechen occurs within infinitive
constructions where the infinitive verb describes an action promised by the
subject. Vliegen (2006: 87) proposes a similar explanation for the more
frequent use and much wider variation of infinitive complements of drohen
as compared to versprechen: “the dominant illocutionary character of the
verbs versprechen/beloven places an appreciable limitation on the variation
of the infinitives associated with them in their epistemic reading, while the
verbs drohen/dreigen show a much wider variation here”. Askedal 1997
also suggests that the specific speech act semantics of versprechen as op-
posed to drohen is responsible for the differences between grammatical
variants of these verbs. So, only versprechen can be used both to perform a
commissive illocutionary act and to refer to this kind of illocutionary act.
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 215
Drohen, on the other hand, is restricted to the second function, i.e. it can
only refer to a speech act. Consider the difference between the following
sentences (examples taken from Askedal 1997: 18):
(103) Ich verspreche Ihnen (hiermit), Sie sofort einzustellen.
‘I (hereby) promise you to engage you immediately.’
(104) *Ich drohe Ihnen (hiermit), Sie sofort zu entlassen.
‘*I (hereby) threaten to dismiss you immediately.’
When combined with human subjects versprechen conveys its commissive
meaning. The same holds also when versprechen combines with nominal
accusative objects. Drohen, on the contrary, when it combines with prepo-
sitional complements with mit ‘with’, may refer either to a speech act, as in
(105) Sie drohte mit Polizei.
‘She threatened to call the police.’
or to a non-verbal action, as in
(106) Sie drohte mit der Faust.
‘She threatened with a fist.’
Therefore drohen is semantically less restricted to the speech act semantics
than versprechen. This difference in semantics has most probably been the
reason why drohen combined much more easily first with inanimate sub-
jects and then with infinitives which do not necessarily introduce an action
to which the subject of the sentence is committing him/herself. Most im-
portant, this is not the speech act semantics per se, but rather the commis-
sive semantics of the speech act verb versprechen that serves as a con-
straining factor in the semantic change from lexical to evidential meaning
of this verb.
The next possible explanation, which we would like to address here, has
also been proposed by Askedal 1997 and concerns pragmatic characteris-
tics of versprechen. Given that drohen introduces negatively evaluated
events, and versprechen introduces positively evaluated events, it is likely
(according to the maxim of quantity by Grice 1975) that the speaker will
more frequently use infinitive constructions with drohen. Since verspre-
chen refers to expected, planned, i.e. normal developments of situations,
the speaker will not necessarily use the construction versprechen & zu-
216 The four evidential constructions in present-day German
infinitive to highlight the “normal” way the things develop. With drohen,
on the other hand, unexpected, unplanned situations, i.e. developments
deviating from the “normal” status, are introduced. So, the speaker will
more frequently use the construction drohen & zu-infinitive just to express
that same value.
Vliegen (2006: 92) suggests that the nature of the described event – ei-
ther its realization or non-realization – has an impact on the differences in
frequency between grammatical variants of drohen and versprechen. “The
increased likelihood of non-realization of the proposition expressed in the
infinitive construction associated with the verb pair dreigen/drohen, as
compared to the cases where there is no evidence whether this proposition
is realized or not”. We do not, however, agree with Vliegen at this point.
We think that the realization or non-realization of the described situation is
not relevant at all because at the time, when a sentence with versprechen or
drohen is uttered, there can be no difference between realization and non-
realization status of the described situation. The only difference verspre-
chen and drohen express is the difference between positive and negative
evaluation of the introduced event, respectively. Whether the situation will
be realized or not, both infinitive constructions do not convey any informa-
tion about this; instead, the situation is seen as most likely to develop in the
described way and not in another one.
We would like to add one more explanation to the three mentioned
above which, as we think, could have been responsible for the constrained
grammaticalization of versprechen, too. This concerns the paradigmatic
changes within the lexical readings of versprechen. By this we mean the
rising of the third lexical reading of versprechen which corresponds to the
structure jemand verspricht sich etwas von etwas ‘someone expects some-
thing from something else’ described in Section 4.1. According to the
DWB this reading has been attested from the beginning of the 18th
century
and was spread very rapidly in the course of the 18th
century, i.e. in the
period proximately preceding the evolution of the evidential construction
versprechen & zu-infinitive. We suggest that the development of this spe-
cific lexical form of versprechen, which is undoubtedly very close to the
evidential reading of the construction versprechen & zu-infinitive, ham-
pered the development of the evidential construction versprechen & zu-
infinitive to a large extent. The lexical verb versprechen refers to the per-
sonal attitude the (human) subject of the sentence has towards the de-
scribed situation, i.e. it refers explicitly to the epistemic sphere of the sub-
ject person. The evidential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive,
similarly, links the described situation (conceived of as a particular devel-
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 217
opment of the actual situation) to the mental world (i.e. information status)
of the speaker. Thus the meaning of this variant of lexical versprechen and
the evidential meaning of the construction versprechen & zu-infinitive are
in some way competitive. Since the lexical sich etwas von etwas verspre-
chen has established itself as a lexical element in the German language,
this particular function could not be adapted by the construction verspre-
chen & zu-infinitive. This suggestion will be further examined in the diach-
ronic part of this study.
Chapter 7
Intermediate summary
Having laid out our theoretical background as well as the empirical data for
the evidential constructions in PDG, this chapter is intended as a survey
and intermediate summary of our findings on the evidential system of PDG
and on its locus in a typological perspective, i.e. its relation to known evi-
dential systems. This synopsis of the current results of the longstanding
development of the four evidential constructions will serve as a starting
point for a concise look back into their diachronic development which will
be the objective of Chapter 8. Section 7.1 concentrates on those properties
of the four constructions which allow us to integrate them into a functional
paradigm. Section 7.2 compares well established typological classifications
of evidential values to our classification of the German evidential values.
1. The inferential evidential paradigm in present-day German
As suggested in Chapter 2, we classify the four infinitive constructions
scheinen/drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive and werden & infinitive as
inferential evidential constructions. Inferential evidentiality is a sub-
category of indirect evidentiality. Irrespective of more fine-grained subdi-
visions, the common core of inferential evidential expressions is that they
mark the proposition as inferred by the speaker (cf. Section 2.2.2 for quotes
and discussion).
As explained in Chapter 2, this core meaning of inferential evidential
expressions may be summarized as follows:
(i) The speaker has no direct access to the described event, i.e. s/he has not
perceived/does not perceive the situation directly, e.g. by means of percep-
tion.
> P  Q
(ii) The speaker infers the described situation from some pieces of informa-
tion, which may be either observable/observed facts or reported informa-
tion or generally known facts etc.
> P, because Q
The inferential evidential paradigm in present-day German 219
Taking these two criteria as pivotal for defining inferential evidentiality
and referring to the facts and results presented so far, we contend that these
two properties are present in the semantics of the German infinitive con-
structions with scheinen, werden, drohen and versprechen, which thus
make up a system – a paradigm – of inferential evidential markers the de-
tails of which are spelled out in the rest of this section.
1.1. Formal characteristics of a paradigm
Before we present our view on the conceptual configuration of the eviden-
tial paradigm constituted by the four German infinitive constructions, a
short overview of the relevant formal characteristics of these four construc-
tions and the paradigm as a whole will be given. Though we will deal with
these largely diachronically motivated issues in Chapters 8 and 9 in greater
detail, there are some points which do deserve attention at this stage.
To begin with, the four infinitive constructions, which are in the focus
of this study, form a relatively homogenous paradigm, as concerns their
formal characteristics. Most important is the periphrastic status of these
forms: they are all infinitive constructions consisting of an auxiliary verb
and the infinitive of the main verb. Apart from this, there are some formal
differences between the constructions.
The most obvious formal difference between werden & infinitive on
one hand and scheinen/drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive on the other is
the absence of the infinitive particle zu ‘to’ in the construction with wer-
den. As to this difference, we would like to mention two points. First, wer-
den has never been used with infinitives and the particle zu ‘to’ in the his-
tory of German. Moreover werden has been attested with infinitives since
the 13th
century. As will be discussed in greater detail later, werden & infi-
nitive has a specific status within the evidential system and in the German
language in general.1
Werden & infinitive is the oldest and the most gram-
maticalized construction among the four constructions considered here.
Therefore it exhibits some properties which still cannot be found in other
constructions.
As is known in grammaticalization theory and typology, grammatical
categories may be formally inhomogeneous and derive from disparate
sources like, for example, German tense grams which derive from phono-
tactically induced vowel changes (the system of Ablaut) as well as from
independent lexical sources presently displaying diverging states of gram-
maticalization (periphrastic and inflectional items). The same holds true
220 Intermediate summary
for evidential markers, as the following typological observation illustrates.
Aikhenvald (2004) points out that evidential markers of one language do
not necessarily form a formally coherent paradigm:
The morphemes then occur in different slots of the verbal word, enter in dif-
ferent paradigmatic relationships with non-evidentials, and have different re-
strictions on co-occurrence with other categories. The expression of eviden-
tiality may itself be obligatory – but different evidentiality specifications
‘scattered’ throughout the verbal system by no means make up a unitary cat-
egory. They still, however, qualify as grammatical evidentials. (Aikhenvald
2004: 80)
Moreover it has been detected that evidential markers, like other grammat-
ical categories, may originate from different unrelated sources, which,
however, does not prevent them from forming a coherent category in a
language:
The few available studies of the genesis of large systems show that, by and
large, they are etymologically heterogeneous. That is, different terms come
from different sources. Of the evidentials in Wintu, three came from inde-
pendent verbs, and one from a particle. […] [T]he non-visual sensory in
Nganasan, Nenets, and Enets probably derives from a noun. Both inferred
and reported evidentials in these languages contain a formative -bi- which is
most probably related to a past tense or a past participle marker.
(Aikhenvald 2004: 285)
Against the background of such observations the German evidential para-
digm appears to be a very homogeneous system consisting only of verbal
infinitive constructions and arising only from main verbs. Thus, even if the
German evidential paradigm seems to be incoherent from the narrower –
language-specific – perspective, a wider – typological – view helps to rela-
tivize this.
Other signs of formal inhomogeneity of the German evidential system,
such as e.g. the impossibility of drohen and versprechen to combine with
perfect infinitive forms, or their restrictions with regard to their subject
referents and infinitive verbs, are due to the different degrees of grammati-
calization of these constructions. Werden & infinitive is the oldest and the
most grammaticalized one, followed by scheinen & zu-infinitive, which is
highly grammaticalized as well but to a lesser extent than werden & infini-
tive. Scheinen & zu-infinitive again is followed by the “youngest” members
of the evidential system – the infinitive constructions with drohen and ver-
sprechen which are less grammaticalized than the other two. Adopting the
perspective of grammaticalization theory, variability and differences be-
The inferential evidential paradigm in present-day German 221
tween the constructions can be easily explained without denying their
membership in a coherent grammatical paradigm.
As discussed before (see Chapter 4), the crucial property of a grammat-
ical paradigm is the close – formal as well as conceptual – relations be-
tween its members. Lehmann (2002) proposes a similar definition of a
grammatical paradigm, cf.:
The size of a paradigm is, to repeat it, a superficial and not always reliable
aspect of paradigmaticity. Over and above it, the integration of the paradigm
has more intrinsic and less easily quantifiable aspects. It also comprises the
formal and functional homogeneity of the paradigm, i.e. a certain amount of
similarity among its members and of regularity in their differences. […] On
the semantic side, the members of a paradigm have a common semantic ba-
sis with varying differentiae specificae. (Lehmann 2002: 120)
This section has shown that the formal homogeneity of the German eviden-
tial paradigm can be said to fulfill this condition, insofar as it consists of –
formally analogous – constructions displaying the same pattern: [auxiliary]
+ [infinitive]. The next section will show that the criterion of semantic
homogeneity applies as well, as all members of the German evidential pa-
radigm share “a common semantic basis” (their inferential evidential mean-
ing) and contrast with each other by specific distinctive values.
1.2. Conceptual structure of the paradigm
Having already proved the high degree of grammaticalization of each con-
struction and having delineated each of their semantic and lexical peculiar-
ities in previous chapters, our central concern here is to show that the four
constructions are semantically very close to each other, i.e. that they all
pertain to one conceptual sub-domain of evidentiality.
In PDG there are no overt grammatical elements expressing direct evi-
dentiality. Direct evidentiality – if needed – may be expressed either by
means of lexical signs (e.g. the adverbs sichtlich, sichtbar ‘visible’ etc.) or
by certain syntactic constructions (e.g. complex sentences with matrix
verbs of perception, as illustrated in (3), AcI constructions as in (2), or
parenthetical uses of verbs of perception as in (1), etc.), cf.:
(1) Sie ist – wie ich sehe/höre – im Garten.
‘She is – as I see/hear – in the garden.’
222 Intermediate summary
(2) Ich sehe/höre sie im Garten arbeiten.
‘I see/hear her working in the garden.’
(3) Ich sehe/höre, wie sie im Garten arbeitet.
‘I see/hear that she is working in the garden.’
Recently it has been suggested (cf. de Haan 2001, Mortelmans 1999; see
also Fabricius-Hansen 2002, Letnes 1997, DUDEN 2005: 535, where,
however, the explicit reference to the evidential nature of these verbs is
lacking) that the German modal verbs wollen and sollen serve as (grammat-
icalized) markers of mediated evidentiality as – in specific constructions –
they serve to mark reported speech. Wollen is said to indicate reports of a
particular speaker who is identical with the subject of the sentence. Sollen
on the other hand is said to introduce reports of an unspecified person’s
speech, cf.:
(4) Sie will nicht am Tatort gewesen sein.
‘She claims that she wasn’t at the crime scene.’
(5) Sie soll nicht am Tatort gewesen sein.
‘It is said that she wasn’t at the crime scene.’
Although both verbs without doubt pertain to a wider domain of “linguistic
utterance of alter ego” (see Section 2.2.3), their status as evidential mark-
ers, i.e. markers of mediated information, is still a matter of discussion.
Bearing in mind the controversial status of quotatives within the evidential
domain (cf. Plungian 2001, Aikhenvald 2004: 132-135, see also Chapter 2
for the discussion of “quotatives” vs. “mediated information”), the ques-
tion is yet to be answered whether the German modals sollen and wollen
should be considered as purely evidential markers. As this question is
beyond the scope of this study and calls for separate treatment, the gram-
matical evidential system of German presented here does not include the
direct or the mediated branch of the general classification of evidentiality
(see Figure 20 in Chapter 2).
As regards the four infinitive constructions with werden, scheinen, dro-
hen, and versprechen, they constitute the (newly evolving) grammatical
paradigm of inferential evidentiality. Each of the four constructions meets
the definition of inferential evidentials given in Chapter 2: they pertain to
the same sub-domain of evidentiality. Moreover, each construction speci-
fies the inferential evidential value in a different way. This makes for the
distinctive feature – or oppositive values – among the four constructions in
The inferential evidential paradigm in present-day German 223
the paradigm. As is typical of grammatical categories, the whole paradigm
is structured hierarchically and asymmetrically (cf. Jakobson [1939] 1974).
There is one member of the paradigm which is unmarked in contrast to
all other members, which is the construction werden & infinitive. It marks
the (conceptual) inferential evidential value without specifying the type of
information on which inference is based. Inference expressed by werden &
infinitive may be indiscriminately based on experienced evidence (i.e., on
pieces of information which have been in some way acquired by the speak-
er) as well as on personal and general knowledge (i.e. on internalized piec-
es of information). This is to say that the basic meaning of werden & infi-
nitive is to indicate the (neutral) inferential value (see Section 6.1.4 for a
detailed description).2
The other three evidential constructions represent marked inferential
evidential values. Scheinen & zu-infinitive is opposed to werden & infini-
tive as it normally means that the inference process is based on some spe-
cific pieces of information (see Section 6.2.4 for a detailed account). For
the sake of simplification, this type of (pieces of) information may be
called “experienced information” which means that the pieces of informa-
tion are marked as in some way acquired (i.e. as observed, as heard from
others etc.) by the speaker.
The constructions drohen und versprechen & zu-infinitive are in oppo-
sition to the construction with scheinen (as well as with werden) in that
they specify the basis of inference as present experience (see Sections
6.3.3 and 6.4.1 for details). This means that the speaker bases his/her infe-
rence on some specific, presently accessible (i.e. observed) pieces of in-
formation. Thus, the difference between werden & infinitive, which is po-
sitioned on the lowest (first, see Figure 1) level of the hierarchy, and the
constructions drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive, which represent the
highest (third, see Figure 1) level, consists in two distinctive features, one
of which they share with scheinen while the other one is specific for dro-
hen and versprechen.
The grammatical paradigm of German evidential constructions in PDG
which is hierarchically formed upon binary oppositions is represented in
Figure 1.
224 Intermediate summary
First level of inferential distinctions:
features:
[+speaker’s inference]
paraphrase:
P, because Q [Origo has information pointing towards P] =
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P]
typological label:
(conceptual) inferential
represented by:
werden & infinitive
Second level of inferential distinctions:
features:
[+speaker’s inference]
[+experienced information as a basis for inference]
paraphrase:
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P] +
P, because Q [Origo can observe some signs/traces of P]
typological label:
perceptual inferential
represented by:
scheinen & zu-infinitive
Third level of inferential distinctions:
features:
[+speaker’s inference]
[+experienced information as a basis for inference]
[+presently accessible information as a basis for inference]
paraphrase:
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P] +
P, because Q [Origo can observe some signs/traces of P] +
P, because Q [Origo has direct access to observed sign/traces of P]
typological label:
perceptual inferential
represented by:
drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive
Fourth level of inferential distinctions:
as level three plus features:
[non-desired]
drohen & zu-infinitive
[desired]
versprechen & zu-infinitive
Figure 1: The conceptual structure of the grammatical paradigm of inferential
evidentiality in PDG
The four constructions form four levels of conceptual organization; each
lower level is defined by the presence of an additional distinctive feature.
German evidential system in a typological perspective 225
The neighboring levels form binary oppositions, differing from each other
only with regard to the presence or absence of one distinctive feature. The
first three levels reflect genuinely evidential distinctions. The fourth level,
on the other hand, contains the features [desired] and [non-desired] which
originate from the lexical semantics of the verbs drohen and versprechen.
Being structured in this manner, i.e., displaying close formal and concep-
tual relations and oppositions, the four evidential constructions form a
grammatical paradigm as discussed in Section 7.1.
Bearing in mind (i) that the grammatical category of evidentiality has
been completely newly evolving in the German language and (ii) that the
paradigm of inferential evidentiality is still involved in the process of para-
digmatic integration (see Section 4.3), it is not surprising that the distinc-
tive conceptual features of the individual members of the German para-
digm do not yet exactly correspond to the acknowledged typological
distinctions (see Chapter 2). However, at this stage of grammaticalization a
strong tendency towards establishing a tightly organized paradigm with
internal distinctions which are genuinely evidential can be observed. This
tendency is represented in Figure 1 above whereby a typological label is
attached to each German infinitive construction.
2. German evidential system in a typological perspective
The German evidential system, as described in the preceding section, may
also be seen in the broader context of typologically discovered evidentiali-
ty systems. In order to do so, we have to take into account not only the
closed system of the four inferential evidential constructions, but also its
“outside” neighbors. By this we mean the placement of the grammatical
category of inferential evidentiality with regard to other possible evidential
distinctions. In Section 7.1.2 we pointed out that there are no grammatical
markers of direct and mediated evidentiality in PDG. Thus the overall sys-
tem of evidentiality marking in PDG consists of the marking indirect evi-
dentiality, whereby direct evidentiality is not overtly marked. This situation
is typical all over the world, cf.:
In most types of evidentiality systems, the visual (or direct, or eyewitness)
evidential may acquire a zero-realization, i.e. be formally unmarked. […]
(Aikhenvald 2003: 7)
The fact that only one language in the present sample does not contrastively
mark indirect evidence, as opposed to seven languages that do not contras-
226 Intermediate summary
tively mark direct evidence is a further indication that languages treat these
categories differently. Perhaps this is because, in many languages, unless
otherwise indicated, an assertion is to be interpreted as based on direct evi-
dence rather than indirect. (Willett 1988: 58-9) [original emphases]
Thus we can assume for PDG that the lack of overt evidential markers of
direct evidentiality does not necessarily mean that there is no such category
at all. Rather, direct evidentiality is not explicitly marked. In other words:
as soon as a (sub-)category is established in a language, it is reasonable to
suggest that the whole category is present in this language. In a system like
that zero-marked elements are interpreted as having a particular – normally
the unmarked – value of the category under consideration.
Such a situation can be assumed for the domain of evidentiality in PDG.
The category of inferential – or more generally: indirect – evidentiality,
which is marked in contrast to the sub-category of direct evidentiality, has
arisen, thus legitimating the whole category of evidentiality to be present in
German. This has been followed by the re-interpretation of all other forms
(e.g. the indicative): they are either considered neutral with respect to this
category, or unmarked. In this way, an opposition between marked and
neutral/unmarked forms comes into being, where the latter can be equally
interpreted as an unmarked (or least marked) member of the category, i.e.
not longer being localized outside the category. So far, we can conclude
that the overall German evidential system consists of two opposed values:
zero-marked direct evidentiality (which can be equaled with the value “non
marked with respect to evidentiality” due to the privative character of the
opposition) versus overtly marked indirect evidentiality, namely inferential
evidentiality.3
Although German does not exactly match one of the systems of eviden-
tial markers identified in Aikhenvald (2004), it shows striking resemblance
to two typologically relevant systems. On the one hand, the German evi-
dential system can be classified as an “A2”-system, following the classifi-
cation suggested by Aikhenvald (2003, 2004), which is characterized by
the values ‘nonfirsthand’ versus ‘everything else’: “The nonfirsthand term
typically covers inference based on visible traces and reported informa-
tion” (Aikhenvald 2003: 4).
On the other hand, as the German evidential system does not only dis-
tinguish between two – inference and ‘everything else’ – terms, but also
differentiate values within the domain of inferentiality it also shares fea-
tures with the “C1”-system consisting of the following terms: visual, in-
German evidential system in a typological perspective 227
ferred 1 (i.e. inference from direct physical evidence), inferred 2 (i.e. infe-
rence from general knowledge), and reported, cf.:
In Tsafiki the visual (used for ‘directly witnessed events’) term is formally
unmarked; there is one suffix marking information inferred from direct
physical evidence, another for inference from general knowledge, and an
additional one for reported, or hearsay. A similar system is found in Pawnee.
(Aikhenvald 2003: 5)
In German there are no overt grammatical markers of direct evidentiality;
there are three constructions with scheinen, drohen and versprechen which
approximately resemble the above mentioned category “inference from
direct physical evidence”, and the construction werden & infinitive which
covers both “inference from direct physical evidence” and “inference from
general knowledge”. And, there are (still controversial) grammatical con-
structions marking reported, or hearsay, evidentiality, i.e., the constructions
with modal verbs wollen and sollen (for the discussion see Chapter
2.2.2.3). Hence we can assume that the main distinctions grammatically
present in the German category of evidentiality may be summarized as
follows:
1. direct evidentiality (= unmarked with respect to evidentiality status)
– formally unmarked (= zero-marked)
2. indirect evidentiality – expressed by periphrastic infinitive construc-
tions; subdivided in:
2.1. indirect inferential evidentiality, consisting of:
2.1.1. werden & infinitive, indicating the (neutral) inferential value
2.1.2. scheinen/drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive, indicating inference
from experienced information
2.2. mediated information – expressed by infinitive constructions with
sollen and wollen (to be confirmed yet, see Chapter 2.2.2.3).
By way of conclusion we can say the German evidential system, though
not fully corresponding to one of the systems attested typologically so far,4
follows the general distinctions which are attested cross-linguistically.
Therefore German infinitive constructions may be treated as members of
the grammatical category of evidentiality.
One specific trait of German inferential evidentiality is noteworthy
here: while in most well investigated evidential systems (e.g. Turkish, Bul-
garian) inferred evidentials usually introduce past events,5
German inferen-
tial markers may introduce past, present, and future events (except for dro-
228 Intermediate summary
hen and versprechen, which still show some restrictions of their lexical
semantics). The German inferential evidential constructions only indicate
the way in which the described situation is acquired by the speaker, which
is inference. The temporal status of the described situation is mostly speci-
fied by other grammatical or lexical means, cf.:
(5) Das scheint mir ein Spiel mit Worten zu sein/gewesen zu sein…
‘That seems (to me) to be just a game with words/to have been…‘
In PDG the domain of evidentiality can be treated independently of other
grammatical domains, such as verbal mood and tense (see Chapter 3). This
shows that evidentiality in German deserves its status as a grammatical
category of its own.
Chapter 8
Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
This chapter presents the results of our diachronic corpus research on infi-
nitive constructions with werden, scheinen, drohen and versprechen. The
constructions will be described in their chronology from OHG period on-
ward using the theoretical concepts introduced in Chapter 5.
As we are dealing with verbs of (relatively) high frequency and high
combinatorial potential, a full treatment of all diachronic ramifications is
beyond the scope of this study. We will therefore focus on those periods
and constructions that are most decisive for the development of the eviden-
tial marker in each verb. This means that, depending on the verb, particular
diachronic periods as well as particular lexical and constructional variants
are treated differently as to weight and explicitness of exposition depend-
ing on their relevance for the grammaticalization process under investiga-
tion.
For werden & infinitive, which is the oldest infinitive construction in
the set, the development into an evidential marker is accomplished around
1800, i.e., the period from the 18th
century onward will not be looked at in
this chapter. As werden & infinitive can be taken to be an instance of “po-
lygrammaticalization”, the status of its function as a future marker and its
interrelation with the evidential function is discussed in some detail.
The construction scheinen & zu-infinitive, too, will be traced back to its
ancestors in OHG to the 18th
century, when – as we will show – it was al-
ready grammaticalized to a very high degree and functioned in a similar
way as it does in PDG. However, as this is a new result of this study, in
contrast to werden, a control study with corpus data from the 19th
century
was conducted for scheinen. This study confirmed that all relevant changes
leading to the establishment of the (grammaticalized) evidential construc-
tion scheinen & zu-infinitive had occurred before the 19th
century.
The verbs drohen and versprechen were much later in developing the
relevant constructions and evidential meanings. Therefore, for these two
verbs, the older diachronic stages up to ENHG are treated with much less
detail than it is done for werden and scheinen. Instead, the 18th
and 19th
centuries, which are the formative period for the grammaticalization of the
evidential construction in these verbs, are treated extensively with a large
corpus of additional data. As versprechen has a particularly complex ety-
230 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
mology, we have imported research from literature (DWB and Paul 1992).
Our own diachronic analysis starts with the situation at the beginning of
the 18th
century and looks for those changes which most probably led to the
establishment of the construction versprechen & zu-infinitive as an eviden-
tial construction.
Thus, the development of the evidential construction of each of the four
verbs can be tracked in this chapter, designing a diachronic scenario of the
grammaticalization of these constructions that shows the individual path of
each verb and at the same time reveals significant parallels to the develop-
ment of other evidential constructions. A survey focussing on the overall
development and the formation of an evidential paradigm including the
four infinitive constructions will be given in Chapter 9.
Before starting the diachronic study proper, some terminological clari-
fications would be in order. The term “construction” is used as a non-
technical term of everyday language in many places in this study when this
does not lead to confusion. However, as linguistic change takes place in
specific linguistic surroundings, the term construction in its technical sense
has been employed here to describe these phenomena. Therefore, this chap-
ter calls for some additional terminological arrangements:
As constructions in the technical sense are always defined as signs, i.e.
as inseparable units of form and meaning/function, we need a technical
term to talk about those linguistic forms and structures that travel through
history taking on different meanings and functions during this journey, i.e.
forming distinct constructions although their formal make-up may remain
the same.
Therefore, in our basic list/classification of relevant linguistic realiza-
tions of the items in question, the term “construction” can only have pre-
theoretical meaning. Alternatively (more precisely but more clumsily) we
use the term “syntagmatic pattern”, which just refers to a specific pattern
of syntagmatic co-occurrence which is retrievable through time and which
does not contain any ascriptions of its semantic and functional status. In
other words, these syntagmatic patterns (also “construction types” in non-
technical terminology) serve as a starting point in our diachronic investiga-
tion, whereby their particular meaning(s) and their interrelations and inte-
ractions will be identified separately for each period of time.
In any construction (seen in the technical sense as a form-meaning as-
sociation) changes may affect the formal side as well as the content side
independently, thereby leading to new constructions. Thus, the view taken
here obviously is but one of several possible approaches and indeed the
Werden & infinitive 231
mainstream way of looking at change. It is applied in most diachronic and
all grammaticalization studies.
In traditional terms, it is a semasiological approach as it starts by taking
the formal side for granted. We pay attention to changes and shifts in the
interpretations of formally unchanged (or only slightly changed) construc-
tions and relate them to specific contexts of usage, some of which vary
over time. On the other hand, grammaticalization per definition is the com-
plex change of semantic/functional and formal/structural aspects, i.e. we
are confronted with drastic formal changes in the linguistic system.
This aspect is accommodated by the concept of a regular succession of
distinct construction/context types, which are defined via relevant constel-
lations of form-meaning-usage parameters (bundles of features of form,
meaning, and function). These are the “context types” identified in Chapter
5. Beyond this, whenever there is need to speak of some recurrent textual
or contextual characteristics that are relevant but do not lend themselves to
integration into a constructional scheme (as they are too variable in their
formal expression, too far dispersed in the textual and situation surround-
ings, too inhomogeneous etc.), we use the term “contextual configuration”.
1. Werden & infinitive
We first give a brief survey of the diachronic development of the construc-
tion werden & infinitive as it has been described in the literature so far. As
there is a large number of studies dealing with the history of werden we
start with a brief research review which, far from being exhaustive, con-
centrates on those hypotheses that are relevant for the topic treated here.
As noted in Section 4.1, we do not fully agree with the currently dominant
opinion that werden & infinitive had first developed temporal function
which then gave rise to other – amongst them evidential – interpretations
of this construction. Instead, we argue that the evidential function of the
construction developed before or in parallel to the temporal meaning of
werden & infinitive, so that its evidential meaning cannot be derived from
its temporal meaning. In what follows we will present diachronic empirical
evidence underpinning our hypothesis.
232 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
1.1. Previous work on the development of werden & infinitive
Today, the construction werden & infinitive is mostly considered a (gram-
maticalized) future tense form (see Section 4.1). In accordance with this
view, most diachronic studies dealing with werden & infinitive more or
less explicitly describe its development as a grammaticalization process of
a future tense marker, whereby the temporal meaning is usually seen as
preceding other (e.g. modal and evidential) meanings of the construction.
In addition to treating the temporal meaning of this construction as
chronologically prior to its other meanings, it is often seen as its main or
default function and its further meanings as derived. In our view, however,
the future temporal meaning of the construction werden & infinitive has
always been only one of several alternative interpretations of its core se-
mantics. Further possible interpretations, namely the aspectual, the eviden-
tial and some other textually triggered readings, should be best seen as
competing with the temporal one rather than having evolved from it. We
argue that in the course of the historical development the evidential reading
of the construction has prevailed over all other interpretations, including
the temporal one. Before showing this, a rough sketch of the development
of werden & infinitive is in order:
Combinations of werden with bare infinitives first occurred in the 13th
century (cf. e.g. Saltveit 1962, Westvik 2000, Diewald and Habermann
2005), i.e. in the late MHG period. At that time the construction had in-
gressive aspectual semantics and marked the onset of the event denoted in
the infinitive verb. In the course of ENHG the construction is said to have
developed future tense readings. In this respect it was in competition with
the infinitive constructions with modal verbs sollen ‘shall’, wollen ‘will’
and müssen ‘must’. By the end of the ENHG period, however, werden &
infinitive finally prevailed over the constructions with modal verbs (cf.
Bogner 1989). At about the same time werden within infinitive construc-
tions gradually lost its (indicative) past tense form ward/wurde. Thus the
construction werden & infinitive was relatively highly grammaticalized.
From that time on, it is supposed to function as a grammatical future tense
marker in German, cf. e.g.:
In der Verbindung werden mit Infinitiv hat die deutsche Sprache ein Mittel
zum Ausdruck des Futurums erhalten, das von jeder modalen Nebenbedeu-
tung befreit ist. [‘In the combination of werden plus infinitive the German
language has received a device to express future tense that is free of any
modal nuances.’] (Dal 1962: 132)
Werden & infinitive 233
Werden mit dem Infinitiv bezeichnet die reine abstrakte Zukunft. [‘Werden
with infinitive designates a purely abstract future.’] (Kleiner 1925: 1)
So hatte also die Sprache in ihrer Entwickelung vom Mhd. zum Nhd. ein
Mittel gewonnen, das ein reinerer Ausdruck des Futurums war als die Verba
sollen und wollen. [‘Hence during the development from the MHG to NHG
the language received a device that was a purer expression of the future
tense in contrast to the verbs sollen and wollen.’] (Wilmanns 1906: 178)
As mentioned above, other readings, including different (epistemic) modal
and evidential interpretations, are usually assumed to be derived form that
future reading as a later development. The path of derivation leading from
future to modal meaning is typically described as in the following quotes
(cf. also Fritz 2000):
In derartigen bifunktionalen Verwendungsweisen, die dadurch zu erklären
sind, dass Aussagen über Zukünftiges immer mehr oder minder hypotheti-
schen Charakter haben müssen, kann die Brücke von der Temporalität zur
Modalität gesehen werden. Plausibel ist ein Kontinuum mit folgenden Pha-
sen: 1. Gewähr durch den Sprecher > 2. sichere Annahme > 3. Annahme >
4. bloße Vermutung. [‘Such bi-functional usages, which are due to the fact
that statements about the future are always more or less hypothetical, may be
seen as a bridge between temporality and modality. It is plausible to assume
a continuum with the following phases: 1. speaker’s assurance > 2. sure as-
sumption > 3. assumption > 4. bare guess.’] (Schmid 2000: 20)
With the conventionalization of the future sense, the ground is cleared for
new grammaticalizations, and German has in fact followed universal paths
of development in this respect. One of these paths involves the reinterpreta-
tion of the prediction sense as a modal one in contexts involving durative
verbs like sein ‘be’ […] This reinterpretation is likely to have been triggered
by an invited inference […] according to which future events are concep-
tually treated like unbounded states. […] The second path of expansion in-
volved a highly restricted context, namely utterances having second person
subject referents, whereby an inference […] was invited, leading to the
emergence of a kind of imperative sense, or, more precisely, a form that By-
bee et al. (1991) refer to as speaker-oriented modality. […] To summarize,
the future sense of the werden-construction has given rise to two modal
senses, one of them expressing epistemic and the other speaker-oriented
modality. (Heine 1995: 126-127)
As we will show in the remainder of this section, this view is problematic.
First, werden & infinitive manifests evidential readings as far as back in
ENHG, i.e. the evidential reading co-exists with the temporal reading and
234 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
does not follow it chronologically. Second, other readings of werden &
infinitive such as the text-connective one are already present at that time.
Furthermore, there is no agreement concerning the details of the com-
plex development of werden & infinitive. First, there is dispute on the
question of whether the infinitive complement of werden is an independent
development or whether it should be seen as a result of the phonetic reduc-
tion of the present participle, which had combined with werden from the
OHG period onward. The second opinion may be called ‘traditional’. It has
been adhered to in numerous studies and grammar books (cf. e.g. Weinhold
1883, Behaghel 1924, Ebert 1978, Betten 1987, von Polenz 1991). Howev-
er, this opinion has been increasingly criticized in the last few decades (cf.
e.g. Saltveit 1962, Leiss 1985, Schmid 2000, Harm 2001). The proponents
of the latter view see the infinitive construction with werden as an inde-
pendent development that has little to do with combinations of werden with
present participles. The exact details of this development are, however, still
a matter of dispute (see Schmid 2000 and Harm 2001 for further details).
We follow the suggestions put forward by Wilmanns 1906, which were
taken up by Schmid 2000 and slightly modified by Diewald and Haber-
mann 2005. The hypothesis offered there puts major weight on the process
of analogical change with semantically close verb-plus-infinitive construc-
tions serving as a model. It rests on the observation that in OHG verbs like
beginnan ‘to begin’, gistanten ‘to be situated, to begin’ etc. were frequent-
ly combined with an infinitive to express ingressive notions (cf. also West-
vik 2000: 237). The meaning of these verbs is maximally close to the in-
gressive meaning of werden. Therefore we assume that werden & infinitive
was analogically formed after the model of the beginnan & infinitive con-
struction and became a member of a relatively closed class of aspectualiz-
ing ingressive expressions.
The next unanswered question is why werden & infinitive prevailed
over competing infinitive constructions with the modal verbs sollen and
wollen in ENHG. As the development of future tenses from modal sources
is far more frequent in the languages of the world, this question appears to
be relevant here. The following characteristics of werden have been consi-
dered in the literature as its advantages over the modal verbs:
a) The lexical source semantics of the ingressive (inchoative) verb wer-
den shows close affinity with the future temporal meaning (cf. Harm
2001, Diewald and Habermann 2005).
b) In contrast to wollen, there is no intentional semantic component in the
lexical source semantics of werden (cf. Kotin 2003, who also speaks of
Werden & infinitive 235
the feature “anthropocentric” in this context, Diewald and Habermann
2005; a different view is taken by Heine 1995, see below).
c) The absence of modal nuances in the lexical source semantics of wer-
den allows us to postulate a future reference without further overlap
with modal meanings (cf. Leiss 1985, Fritz 1997, Dal 1962, Wilmanns
1906).
d) A wide range of constructions (lexical as well as grammatical) in
which werden participated is assumed to have allowed werden a faster
auxiliarization towards a future tense marker (cf. Kotin 2003, Diewald
and Habermann 2005).
We agree with the opinion that the specific features of werden mentioned
above testify to a very different character of this verb in contrast to modal
verbs. We do not agree, however, that these characteristics necessarily
explain the prevalence of werden over the modal verbs sollen and wollen
as far as their functional status as future tenses is concerned. As mentioned
above, we regard the temporal meaning of werden & infinitive as one of
several alternative readings of this construction, in its synchrony as well as
in its diachrony.
Within the framework of grammaticalization studies, future tense mar-
kers are usually considered to arise via four main channels (cf. Bybee, Per-
kins and Pagliuca 1994, Ultan 1978). The relevant source structures are the
following:
1) aspectual forms,
2) verbs denoting agent-oriented modalities,
3) verbs denoting movement towards a goal, and
4) temporal adverbs.
German werden seems to represent the first channel as its lexical source is
a verb with aspectual – ingressive/inchoative – semantics. However, it
stands quite alone among other languages of the world:
From a typological perspective, the German werden future is rather exotic;
among the 100-plus languages world-wide we have looked at so far, there is
not a single one that has the same conceptual source. (Heine 1995: 125)
In Heine 1995 it is proposed that the development of the construction wer-
den & infinitive is nevertheless in line with universal developmental ten-
dencies mentioned above. Heine (1995: 125-126) reconstructs the evolu-
tion of the German construction werden & infinitive, assuming an
236 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
intermediate stage of an intention sense for it, which he locates chronolog-
ically between the ingressive meaning and the future meaning as shown in
examples (1) - (4), which are taken from Heine (1995: 126-127):
(1) Ich werde Arzt, ich bin fest entschlossen.
‘I am going to be a doctor, I have made up my mind’.
(2) Ich werde kommen, ich bin fest entschlossen.
‘I am going to come, I have made up my mind’.
(3) Es wird runterfallen.
‘It is going to fall down’.
(4) Es wird wahr sein.
‘That will be true’.
Thus the following developmental path is assumed for werden:
ingressive > intention > future > [epistemic/speaker-oriented modality]
As many diachronic studies have shown, however, the scenario proposed
by Heine 1995 is rather problematic. First of all, the analysis is based upon
exclusively synchronic observations. Furthermore the establishment of the
intention sense of werden & infinitive at the intermediate stage of its
grammaticalization is considered doubtful:
Heines Erklärungsversuch ist aber vor allem deshalb abwegig, weil die
Grammatikalisierung des Futurs eine Rückstellung der „intention“ neben
Rückstellung der aktionalen Markiertheit erfordert […] Es kann kaum ange-
nommen werden, dass ein von vorn herein rückstellungsbedürftiges Merk-
mal die Rolle eines Bindegliedes auf dem Weg der Entität zur Grammatika-
lisierung übernimmt und das andere, ebenfalls (aber nicht stärker!)
„rückstellungsbedürftige“ Merkmal (Mutativität) eine Zeit lang einfach me-
chanistisch ersetzt. Werden ersetzt wollen und sollen in dem prospektiven
Bereich gerade deshalb, weil letztere ihre Deontik bzw. Voluntarität und
somit ihren Anthropozentrismus beibehalten. [‘Heine’s explanation is falla-
cious in particular because the grammaticalization process of the future
tense requires the cancellation of the “intention” sense in addition to the
cancellation of the aspectual meaning. […] It can hardly be assumed that a
feature, which from the beginning was also bound to be deleted, served as a
link in the grammaticalization process and for a period of time merely me-
chanically replaced another property (i.e. mutativity), which likewise was
bound to be cancelled. Werden replaces wollen and sollen in the prospective
Werden & infinitive 237
domain exactly the latter ones preserved their deonticity or volitionality and,
thus, their anthropocentricity.’] (Kotin 2003: 174)
Diewald and Habermann (2005: 235) state that werden never fully estab-
lished the semantic component of intentionality. In a similar way, Hilpert
2007 states:
Intentional meanings of werden, which are present in biblical translations
from the 16th
century, become only typical of more casual uses of werden in
later periods of German. (Hilpert 2007: 246)
Our claim – that werden & infinitive has never been a pure future tense
marker in the history of German – can be substantiated by the typologically
informed observation that aspectual forms as conceptual sources of future
tense categories differ in their development from other types of sources (cf.
Bybee, Pagliuca and Perkins 1991, Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca 1994).
They are considered to be capable of developing future meanings as “just
one interpretation of a much broader semantics”.
Aspectual futures develop as imperfectives or perfectives, which happen to
accommodate future readings, but they do not develop explicit future se-
mantics. (Bybee, Pagliuca and Perkins 1991: 32)
In the following we will show that this situation holds for the German con-
struction werden & infinitive as well. In the next sections we will recon-
struct the development of the construction werden & infinitive as we have
retraced it on the basis of an extensive corpus study.
1.2. Werden in the history of German
In general, the following five syntagmatic patterns can be distinguished in
the diachrony of German:
1) werden as a one-place predicate, functioning as an intransitive verb;
2) werden & nouns and adjectives, functioning as a copula verb;
3) werden & perfect participle;
4) werden & present participle;
5) werden & infinitive.
The syntagmatic patterns (1) and (2) have been present all along in the
history of German since OHG.1
In its function as an intransitive verb wer-
238 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
den means ‘to happen, to rise, to occur, to come about, to come into being’,
etc.
(5) Fóne demo îo álle geskáfte sínd . únde geríchte uuérdent. (Notker
12971, KALI-Corpus)
‘From this all creatures are and laws come into being.’
Werden as a copula verb usually combines with nouns and adjectives serv-
ing its predicative complements.
(6) wir wurden aber sô vrô dâ vôn… (KvHeimUrst 2034, MHDWB)
‘but we became glad thereof.’
The third syntagmatic pattern, i.e. werden & perfect participle, is attested
from the OHG period onwards and developed towards a grammaticalized
passive construction in the course of MHD. At the end of the 13th
century
this construction was already highly grammaticalized.
(7) die wurden âne zagen/alle meisteil erslagen/und die andern ge-
vangen (Iwein 6, 3745-3747, taken from Kotin 2003: 189)
‚most of them were struck dead without hesitation and the other
[were] arrested’
We will not deal with this syntagmatic pattern in the following (for de-
tailed descriptions of its development see Oubouzar 1974, Valentin 1987,
Abraham 1991, Eroms 1990, 1992, Leiss 1992, Kotin 2003). As the gram-
maticalization process of werden & perfect participle towards a passive
construction had been completed roughly at the end of the 13th
century, its
development could hardly have had direct impact on the development of
the construction werden & infinitive which first appeared at about the same
time. Werden as a passive auxiliary has completely lost its lexical seman-
tics and thus no longer has a direct semantic connection to the other syn-
tagmatic patterns with werden. It came to function as an auxiliary and can
be considered fully independent of its lexical source. This parallel and
diverging development of werden into different grammatical categories
(passive, evidential marking) is a clear case of “polygrammaticalization”,
where “a single form develops different grammatical functions in different
constructions” (Hopper and Traugott [1993] 2003: 112). A split occurred,
whereby werden & perfect participle, after a short time of being integrated
in the paradigm of werden-constructions, left this paradigm and followed
Werden & infinitive 239
its own developmental path. In the following we will refer to the construc-
tion werden & perfect participle and its uses only in cases when they are
relevant for our primary subject – the construction werden & infinitive.
The fourth syntagmatic pattern, i.e. werden & present participle, was
present in the German language from the OHD period till the 17th
century.
The meaning of this construction was ingressive aspectual, i.e. it indicated
the initial stage of the process expressed in the present participle.
(8) Tho ward múnd siner/sar spréchanter (Otfrid 9376, KALI-Corpus)
‘His mouth began to speak [lit.: became speaking]’
The construction werden & infinitive has been first attested in the 13th
cen-
tury. Single attestations of this construction have been found as early as in
the late OHG period, namely in the texts by Notker, e.g.:
(9) Íh uuárd iu fórn guar chad er . in nâh philologia chélen (Notker,
taken from Kotin 2003: 135)
‘A while ago I began – he said – to tell you about philology.’
The initial meaning of this construction was ingressive aspectual, i.e. the
construction marked the described event in its onset. In this respect it was
conceptually very close to verbal constructions with aspectually marked
verbs, e.g. biginnan ‘to begin’, anefahen ‘to start’, gistantan ‘to be si-
tuated, to begin’ etc.
(10) Bigonta ez der rîcho man vilo harto zurnen… (Georgslied 248,
KALI-Corpus)
‘The rich man began to be very cross about this.’
As we have noted in Section 8.1.1, the construction werden & infinitive
was analogically built after the model of such verbal constructions. In PDG
the construction werden & infinitive has a wide range of alternative read-
ings (see Section 4.1) and has the inferential evidential reading as its main
meaning.
Taking the existence and the relevance of the described werden-patterns
as a starting point, we analyze their typical contextual surroundings at dif-
ferent historical periods of German in order to better understand shifts in
their semantic content. In doing so, we reconstruct the semantic develop-
ment of the construction werden & infinitive, (i) representing it as a devel-
240 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
opment which is related to the development of other werden-constructions,
(ii) retracing it exclusively on the basis of corpus data, and (iii) adopting a
usage-based view on language and grammar.
1.3. Werden in Old High German
In OHG only four of the five constructions described above are present.2
It
should be noted right at the beginning that all werden-constructions in
OHG can be subsumed under one meaning. It is the ingressive aspectual
semantics of werden, i.e. indicating the initial stage of an event, situation
or state. The only exception is werden as a main verb with the meaning ‘to
happen, to occur’, i.e., displaying durative aspectual semantic components
as well. This meaning was the original meaning of the etymon werden in
the former historical stages of Germanic and can be seen as a case of pre-
servation of the source meaning of this etymon.3
Usages of werden as an intransitive main verb are quite frequent in
OHG. The verb is used in the present as well as in the past tense and in all
personal forms. This syntagmatic pattern of werden has two interpreta-
tions: the ingressive (i.e., ‘to come into being’) and the non-ingressive (i.e.,
‘to happen, to take place’), exemplified in (11) and (12), respectively:
(11) Táz-tir uuírdet . táz zegât óuh . únde uuéhselôt síh (Notker 33514,
KALI-Corpus)
‘That which comes into being, passes by and changes.’
(12) Ofto wírdit, oba gúat/thes mannes júngoro giduat… (Otfrid 2955,
KALI-Corpus)
‘It often happens that …’
Werden as an intransitive verb occurs normally as a one-place predicate
and combines with nouns/noun phrases in the nominative case. Nouns and
noun phrases in the dative case are often found in sentences with the in-
transitive werden, functioning to introduce the benefactive role. This pos-
sibility is still available in PDG, though to a far lesser extent. Furthermore
werden as an intransitive verb is not restricted to any specific contexts of
usage. It occurs in all temporal and personal forms and allows for syntactic
variations (e.g. through a facultative benefactive role).
Werden as a copula verb combines with nouns and pronouns in the no-
minative and genitive, with nouns and noun phrases with the preposition zu
Werden & infinitive 241
‘to’, and with predicative adjectives and adverbs. It appears in all inflec-
tional forms. As this variant of werden is still present in PDG, only the no
longer extant use with a genitive predicative noun will be exemplified here:
(13) daz sie schebedîg uuurden unde tôdes (Notker 2 319, 9 Piper, tak-
en from DWB 29, 221-276)
‘that they became leprous and moribund’
Copula constructions with werden indicate a change in the status of the
described entity: they introduce a new status or a new quality of an entity
which had not been attached to it before. In this respect the copula con-
struction of werden is fully integrated in the paradigm of other werden-
constructions. Werden as a copula is not restricted to any specific contexts:
it is used in all temporal and personal forms, and allows for syntactic varia-
tions (e.g. the adjective can be either inflected or non-inflected).
The construction werden & perfect participle is very frequent in OHG.
At this time it is already involved in the initial stages of the grammaticali-
zation process towards a passive voice marker. Kotin (2003: 85-96) points
out that the change in the syntactic status of the perfect participle – from an
adjective-like predicative into an integral part of an analytic grammatical
construction – begins relatively late in OHG (i.e., in the texts by Notker).
In other OHG texts werden & perfect participle usually allows for a separa-
tion into two relatively autonomous parts: the copula-like verb werden on
the one hand and the adjective-like perfect participle on the other. Fur-
thermore many perfect participles in combination with werden are in-
flected, as shown in (14). This fact provides evidence for treating many of
OHG instances of werden & prefect participles as a copula-like construc-
tion.
(14) Tho ward ther fáter aler/gótes wihi irfúlter (Otfrid 9526, KALI-
Corpus)
‘The father was filled with all God’s blessing.’
(15) Chindh uuirdit uns chiboran, sunu uuirdit uns chigeban, endi
uuirdit siin herduom oba sinem sculdrom… (Isidor 3380, KALI-
Corpus)
‘A child will be born (to us), a son will be given (to us), and his
reign will be over his evil…’
242 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
Such instances of werden & perfect participle are of particular interest. The
most relevant observation is that werden & perfect participle initially dis-
played ingressive semantics. Irrespective of the temporal perspective (ei-
ther present or past) the construction referred to initial stages of events or
situations. In other words: new situations, which have not been present(ed)
before, were introduced by the construction werden & perfect participle. A
specific semantic feature of this construction is its resultative interpretation
which is due to the resultative semantics of the perfect participle. As the
grammaticalization process proceeded, werden gradually lost its ingressive
component, and the resultative component also disappeared. First signs of
this development can already be found in Notker:
(16) tíu uuírt ófto fóne uuíllen ferduuénget (Notker 10875, KALI-
Corpus)
‘she is often prevented by the will’
The use of the temporal adverb ófto ‘often’ in (16) makes an ingressive
(and also a resultative) interpretation of the construction rather unlikely.
Instead, a habitual (iterative, durative, imperfective) reading is favored
here. To summarize, the development of the construction werden & perfect
participle towards a grammatical(ized) passive construction is already at an
advanced stage at the end of OHG: there are contexts in which the original
– ingressive – interpretation is no longer possible. Nevertheless some in-
stances of its use still display ingressive semantics (this holds for at least
the early MHD period as well).
There are singular attestations of the construction werden & present
participle in OHG. In this construction werden behaves like a copula verb,
as the construction usually allows for a separation into two relatively auto-
nomous parts: the copula-like werden and the adjective-like present parti-
ciple. Note that present participles are often inflected.
(17) Thô sliumo uuard thar mit themo engile menigi himilisches heres
got lobontiu inti quedentiu… (Tatian 4831, KALI-Corpus)
‘Suddenly the crowd was there with the angel praising God and
saying …’
The meaning of this construction is unambiguously ingressive: it introduc-
es a change from some former situation into a new situation or state.
Moreover, the situation not only starts but also lasts for some time. The
Werden & infinitive 243
durative meaning component comes from the inherent meaning of the
present participle (whereas the perfect participle form marks resultativity,
see above). Werden & present participle is used in the present as well in the
past temporal perspective. An important contextual restriction for this con-
struction is that – in our data – it combines only with animate subjects. In
all other readings werden & present participle seems to be used synonym-
ously to the copula constructions with adjectives.
It should be noted that werden is often used in “presentational” con-
structions in OHG; this usage disappears however in the later periods. The
combination of werden with the adverbs tho/dô ‘there, then’ and thane
‘then’ appears mostly in a sentence initial position, cf.:
(18) Uuard thô thaz arfuorun fon in thie engila in himil (Tatian 4915,
KALI-Corpus)
‘It happened there that the angels in heaven learned about them.’
The presentational construction indicates either that a new situation
emerges, i.e., werden has ingressive meaning, or that a situation holds, i.e.,
werden has non-ingressive meaning. Importantly, these contexts often
serve as a narrative means of text-construction, whereby werden marks a
new episode in the narration, introducing a new development or a new turn
in the story. In short, in this usage werden may be considered as an explicit
marker of new textual information. Interestingly, contextual configurations
of werden and the adverbs tho/dô and thanne are typical not only of wer-
den as a main verb, but also of werden as a copula and of werden & perfect
participle. Thus we can sate that the introduction of a new situation, i.e.,
marking of new information in a story, is in line with the common aspec-
tual ingressive semantics of the verb werden.
1.4. Werden in Middle High German
In MHG some relevant changes in the overall system of the werden-
constructions may be recorded. In the following we will only discuss those
cases where a considerable change (in the structure of a construction, in the
contextual uses of a construction etc.) could be detected on the basis of our
corpus investigations.
First, the construction ward & tho/dô/thanne disappears. This has been
seen in connection with the gradual decrease of werden as a main verb (cf.
Kotin 2003: 139). As the intransitive variant of werden slowly fades away,
244 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
the possibility to use it in a variety of syntactic constructions also decreas-
es. We suggest however that it was primarily the slowly vanishing non-
ingressive (i.e. durative) semantic component of the verb werden that has
had a considerable impact on this development. Moreover we postulate that
the meaning of the OHG ward & tho/dô/thane construction was partly tak-
en over by the MHG constructions with the adverb sô. The first indications
for this process can already be detected in the texts by Notker, cf.:
(19) Sô uuírdet sâr uuúnterônnes énde. (Notker 30959, KALI-Corpus)
‘So the amazement comes to its end.’
It should be also noted that we detected a considerable gain in formulaic
uses of the main verb werden in phrases with rat ‘advice’, teil ‘part’, buoz
‘substitute’ etc., cf.:
(20) wie möhte des immer werden rât… (KvHeimHinv 771, MHDWB)
‘how one might ever find a remedy …’
The spread of such formulaic lexical uses of werden and the decrease in its
absolute uses as a main verb occur at about the same time. This fact pro-
vides evidence for the statement that werden as a main verb slowly faded
away during the MHG period.
While absolute uses of werden gradually leave the “scene”, there is an
increasing amount of copula uses of werden in MHG. The formal structure
and the meaning of this construction remain roughly the same as compared
to OHG.
(21) So er alt wird so wahsit sin oberer snabel. (JPhys 19,16,
MHDWB)
‘As he gets elder his upper beak grows.’
In combination with (perfect and present) participles werden often has the
status of a copula (or copula-like) verb. However a strong tendency to-
wards the reanalysis of these combinations in terms of verbal periphrases
can be observed. Werden & perfect participle continues to establish its
grammatical status as a passive construction (for details see e.g. Kotin
1998, 2003, Eroms 1990, Öberg 1907, Schröder 1955).
The syntagmatic pattern werden & present participle is much more fre-
quent in MHG than in OHG. Still, it shows the preservation of the OHG
structure, being more likely a combination of a copula-like werden and a
Werden & infinitive 245
predicative participle. Whereas werden & perfect participle was reanalyzed
into a verbal periphrasis, werden & present participle remained unchanged.
In MHG contextual restrictions of this construction are very much the same
as in the OHG period. It always requires a grammatical subject, in most
cases an animate one. The participles mostly originate from action verbs.
Thus the construction usually indicates the beginning of an action carried
out by an animate actor.
In MHG the construction werden & infinitive comes into existence.
Apart from two occurrences found in Notker (see previous section), it was
absolutely absent in OHG (as far as we can state on the basis of the data
available from that period). In MHG this construction is semantically very
close to the construction werden & present participle, so all we have said
about werden & present participle equally applies to the construction wer-
den & infinitive. The following examples have been often cited in the lite-
rature on werden & infinitive, in order to demonstrate the closeness of
these two constructions (cf. Wiesinger 2001: 178, Kotin 2003: 156). Both
sentences are taken from the MHG text Iwein by Hartmann von Aue, line
5891. (22) appears in the older version (manuscript) of the text, whereas
(23) is taken from the younger one:
(22) Dô sî si vrâgende wart…
‘There she began to ask them [pres. part.].’
(23) Dô sî vrâgen wart…
‘There she began to ask [infinitive].’
The verb werden, both in constructions with present participle and with
infinitive, is semantically very close to ingressive verbs such as biginnan,
gistantan, and others. These verbs often combine with infinitives (mostly
without particle zu) in OHG and MHG. As already mentioned, we propose
that werden & infinitive was formed analogically after the model of infini-
tive constructions with such ingressive verbs.
We would like to emphasize that werden & infinitive does not display
an inherent future meaning in MHG, though some signs of incipient gram-
maticalization towards a future tense marker can be observed already in
this period (cf. e.g. Kotin 2003: 173, Saltveit 1962: 191, Wiesinger 2001:
182). Indeed, future interpretations of this construction are possible in
many local contexts; they nevertheless remain contextually induced inter-
pretations of this construction. We can thus summarize that, apart from the
construction werden & perfect participle, which has established its gram-
246 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
matical status as a passive marker, all other werden-constructions still form
a semantically homogeneous system in MHG. They all have ingressive
semantics and differ from each other with regard to formal and functional
characteristics of the elements combining with werden.
At this point, we would like to mention a specific contextual use of
werden which we have detected in our diachronic data. We consider this
use to be a new and unusual one at that time, and want to emphasize its
role in the further development of werden & infinitive. Let us first give
some examples for each syntagmatic pattern of werden:
(24) intransitive werden
sô ein bâbst gelac tôt/und ein ander wider wart,/der trat zehant an
die vart. (Ottokar 258-260, taken from Kotin 2003: 140)
‘as a pope lay dead and another came, he immediately set off’
(25) copula werden
und welheu schâf auz dem andern trinkent, die werdent weiz. (BdN
484,15, MHDWB)
‘and those sheep which drink from the other (they will) become
white’
(26) werden & perfect participle/present participle
dat tout er drîstunt. so wirt er geiunget unte gesehente (JPhys 19,8,
MHDWB)
‘he does this for three hours, thus he becomes younger [perf.part.]
and able to see [pres.part.; lit.: seeing]’
(27) werden & infinitive
iǕt aber daz manz niht vz Ǖchepfet, Ǖo werdent die vnden oben hin in
Ǖlahen. (PrBerthKl 2,63, MHDWB)
‘but if it is so that one does not scoop it, (thus) the lower (will) be-
gin to break in at the top’
At first sight the contexts in (24) to (27) seem to have little in common:
werden occurs in main clauses as well as in embedded clauses and in rela-
tive clauses; it occasionally appears with adverbs such as do and so; it is
used in present and past tenses, etc. However, we can observe that these
contexts have one important commonality: the meaning of werden cannot
be described exclusively in terms of ingressive aspectual semantics, but
displays an additional semantic component. Werden not only indicates the
beginning of a situation (which is its ingressive meaning), but also marks
the situation as resulting from something else. This interpretation of wer-
Werden & infinitive 247
den in MHG (i) is compatible with the ingressive semantics, i.e. it co-exists
with and accompanies the ingressive meaning of werden without overrid-
ing it; (ii) it arises in local contexts supported by further contextually
present linguistic elements; and (iii) it allows for a wide range of semantic
specifications of the abstract meaning of sequential relation, which may be
a temporal relation as in (24), a causal effect as in (26), or a conditional
effect as in (25) and (27). These usages, which share the feature leading to
the (contextually triggered) meaning of a sequential relation are instances
of untypical contexts for werden, and thus may be seen as pre-conditions
for its further grammaticalization. Contexts expressing this kind of sequen-
tial relation become even more prominent in ENHG, as we will show in the
next section.
1.5. Werden in Early New High German
Approximately at the end of ENHG, the development of werden & infini-
tive towards a future tense marker slowed down, and the inferential eviden-
tial meaning of werden & infinitive established itself. Thus, as far as the
(potential) future marker is concerned, we may speak of an instance of
‘halted’ or ‘arrested grammaticalization’ (Janda 2001; see also Andersen
1973, Fischer 2000, Haspelmath 2004).4
The relevant instances of werden & infinitive and present participle in
ENHG display the following tendency: while their past tense forms with
ward/wurde continue to express aspectual ingressive semantics, their
present tense forms develop a future temporal reading in some contexts.
The following example from our corpus data illustrates the future tense
reading of the present tense form of the construction werden & infinitive,
cf.:
(28) daß wir nicht anders bishero bekennet haben/nicht anders annoch
bekennen/nicht anders hinfuoran bekennen werden/als daß uns er-
loeset habe die Allerheiligste Dreyfaltigkeit (B 117)
‘that we have confessed in this way so far, we still confess in this
way, we will continue to confess in this way that we have been re-
deemed by the Holy Trinity’
Here werden & infinitive is contrasted with the present and perfect tense
forms of the infinitive verb bekennen ‘confess’.
248 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
On the other hand, werden & infinitive/present participle is very often
used in specific contextual configurations, namely after embedding expres-
sions containing verbs of cognition, perception and emotion. This use of
werden is listed in the DWB as a particular semantic variant of werden &
infinitive:
oft findet sich die umschreibung auch beim ausdruck von befürchtungen,
hoffnungen und mutmaszenden überlegungen, die sich auf künftiges richten,
wobei der sicherheitsgrad der aussage vielfach durch einen entsprechenden
‘vorspann’ eingeschränkt ist. [‘The periphrasis is often found in expressions
of fears, hopes and conjectures which are oriented towards future events,
whereby the degree of certainty in many cases is restricted by a pertinent
opening.’] (DWB, Vol. 29, column 254)
Here is an example from our corpus:
(29) Ach Argenis, Argenis, ich besorge/dieser Schiffbruch wird mehr
Todes--Faelle nach sich ziehen. (B 147)
‘Oh Agrenis, Argenis, I am worried that this shipwreck will in-
volve more deaths.’
Importantly, not only the present indicative form of the construction is
found in such contexts but also its present subjunctive form in (30) as well
as its past tense indicative (31) and subjunctive (32) forms:
(30) Das erste/das der Oberste glaubet/der HERR Jesus werde sein
Tochter wider lebendig machen/wenn er sie nur mit der hand
anruere. (B 135)
‘The first thing is that the Supreme Being believes the Lord Jesus
will bring his daughter back to live by touching her with his hand.’
(31) Der Consul war hierüber ubel zufriden/dieweil er sahe/das solche
uberlauff den seinigen beschwerlich sein wurden… (B 125)
‘The consul was not satisfied with it while he saw that such a
crowd would be exhausting for his people.’
(32) etliche andere aber zuckten jhre Sebel uber uns/das wir anderst
nicht gedachten/es wurde stuck und trim-er geben (B 125)
‘quite a few others drew their swords on us (so) that we thought
there would be bloodshed and destruction [lit. ‘pieces and debris’]’
The future temporal interpretation of werden & infinitive is indeed possible
in all these contexts. However in each case it is overlaid with additional
Werden & infinitive 249
meaning components: most often they concern some aspects of the speak-
er’s inner world of perception, cognition or emotion. Although this mean-
ing to a considerable extent is motivated by matrix verbs such as believe,
see, think, worry, etc., its realization seems to bear a close syntagmatic
relationship to werden & infinitive. Hence we interpret the contextual con-
figurations with embedding verbs of cognition, perception and emotion and
werden & infinitive in embedded clause as the critical contexts, as in our
view, they are the first ambiguous contexts to trigger evidential interpreta-
tion. Note that they do not follow temporal readings of this construction in
time, but rather exist in parallel to them.
In ENHG there are also other patterns of werden & infinitive/present
participle which represent non-temporal meaning. First, the ingressive as-
pectual interpretation of this construction is still prominent, cf.:
(33) do kom ain veintlicher nebel, und bedäkt mit ainer finstriu den luft,
da wurdend die wind vast wäen, und von donerslegen ain grozz
krachen, do ward der regen giezzen mit den donern und mit
feintlichen blitzen. (B 221)
‘there came a hostile fog and covered the air with a darkness, the
wind began to blow strongly and the thunderclaps to crash, the rain
began to pour with thunders and with hostile flashes of lightning’
The ingressive reading is found only when past (indicative) forms of wer-
den & infinitive are used. It disappears for good in the course of the ENHG
time together with this inflectional form. What we can observe in ENHG is
that this reading is gradually reinterpreted towards marking a sequential
relationship between described situations (see Section 8.1.4). The frequen-
cy of the contexts in which werden & infinitive exhibits this new reading,
i.e. marking a sequential relation, is relatively high in the ENHG period
(for further details see Smirnova 2006: 242-259), cf.:
(34) Was Gott befilcht/das wirdt on dein bitt beschehen. (B 115)
‘What God orders that will happen without your request.’
(35) Weil dann ohne das in deß Menschen Namen und Herz das Sigill
der Allerheiligsten Dreyfaltigkeit scheinet eingedruckt zu sein/also
wird uns dieses noch ein groessere Anmahnung seyn zur Vereh-
rung dieses Goettlichen Drey. (B 117)
‘While then the signet of the Holy Trinity seems to be pressed in
250 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
the men’s name and heart, thus it will be a greater reminder to dei-
fy the Holy Trinity.’
Such uses of werden & infinitive may have future temporal meaning, in-
deed, but often they have an atemporal interpretation as in (34) instead.
Thus, the marking of a sequential relation between two textually neighbor-
ing situations is a firmly entrenched meaning of the construction werden &
infinitive in ENHG.
We also observe a further development and reinterpretation of the se-
quential relation reading of werden & infinitive in ENHG. The sequential
relationship between two events is gradually reinterpreted as a sequential
relationship between premises and conclusions, i.e. as a logical relation
between two situations (which is installed by the speaker). As the follow-
ing examples show, werden & infinitive cannot be given a future temporal
interpretation. Werden & infinitive is rather indifferent with regard to its
temporal value. Instead, it has inferential evidential reading, indicating that
the described situation is based upon speaker’s inference. The main infor-
mation conveyed by this construction is that the statement made by the
speaker is the result of his/her inference process. The inference process
itself rests upon certain premises, which in ENHG are still often mentioned
in the preceding text.
(36) Weil nicht zuhoffen steht… daß die jenige so in den Romanen be-
wandert/und ihre beste Zeit under disen Blaettern verscharret ha-
ben/die schaedlichkeit derselben mercken oder erklaeren werden
(B 217)
‘While it cannot be expected … that those who are well versed in
novels and have spent their best time among these pages will be
able to notice and explain their harmfulness.’
(37) So werden andere gelehrte vnd vngelehrte ein jeder gern wissen
wöllen/was er bedeute (G Kep)
‘Thus each of other scholars and non-scholars is bound to want to
know what he represents.’
A comparison of these contexts to contexts with embedding verbs of per-
ception, cognition and emotion mentioned above reveals some remarkable
similarities. First, they both exhibit a strong link to the (inner world of the)
speaker insofar as the former refer to the process of reasoning and the latter
explicitly mention the speaker’s cognitive or emotional stance. Second,
251
they are not restricted to the future temporal perspective: they allow for
different temporal locations of the described situations. Third, they are not
restricted to the present tense form of the construction werden & infinitive,
but concern the whole inflectional paradigm (excluding the disappearing
indicative past tense form) of the construction.
It should also be noted that we have found combinations of werden with
perfect infinitives in our ENHG data. As is well known, such combinations
never had pure future temporal interpretations. The fact that such combina-
tions are already present in ENHG underpins our hypothesis about a paral-
lel (and not successive) development of temporal and inferential meaning
of the construction werden & infinitive.
(38) Dan wie es die Astronomische rechnung bezeugt/so ist in der nacht
nach dem sechsten Aprilis ein conjunctio Jovis Septentrionalis et
Lunae dividuae australis gewest in Sagittario, das also ditz khein
newer stern/sondern der alte Jupiter gewest sein würt (G Kep)
‘As the astronomical calculation shows there was a conjunctio
Jovis Septentrionalis et Lunae dividuae australis in Sagittario in the
night after April 6th
, so that this would not have been a new star
but the old Jupiter’
The inferential interpretation of werden & infinitive is most appropriate
here. The evidence from which the speaker (here: the writer) draws his
conclusion is explicitly mentioned in the text. The fact that the described
event occurred in the past motivates the use of the perfect infinitive of the
infinitive verb sein ‘be’.
From this empirical evidence we suggest that the establishment of the
inferential reading of werden & infinitive was triggered in the following
critical context in ENHG: there is an embedding verb of cognition, percep-
tion and emotion, which indicates the existence of premises on which an
inference process may be based.
2. Scheinen & zu-infinitive
In this section we deal with the diachrony of the construction scheinen &
zu-infinitive from OHG up to the 18th
century with an outlook on the 19th
century data for control.
Scheinen & zu-infinitive
252 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
2.1. Scheinen in the history of German
In general, we could distinguish between the following syntagmatic pat-
terns with the verb scheinen in the history of German (for an overview of
the present syntagmatic patterns of scheinen see Section 6.2):
1) scheinen as a main intransitive verb;
2) scheinen as a copula verb;
3) scheinen with zu-infinitive;
4) scheinen followed by a complement clause (with als, als ob, dass);
5) the parenthetical scheinen.
The first syntagmatic pattern, the main verb scheinen, is the oldest one of
this verb. It has been present all along in the history of German, counting
from the OHG period onward. In its original function as an intransitive
verb scheinen means ‘to shine’ and is mostly used with subjects referring
to something being able to give off light, cf.:
(39) Lioht thaz thar scínit/inti alla worolt rinit (Otfrid 11869, KALI-
Corpus)
‘The light that is shining and lighting up the whole world.’
As this syntagmatic pattern has had different meanings in the history of
German (ranging from ‘to shine, to give off light’ to ‘to be clear, to prove’)
it will receive more attention in the next sections.
Scheinen as a copula verb usually combines with all types of predicative
expressions. It does not refer to a visual effect. Instead its meaning can be
best paraphrased with ‘to appear, to seem to be’. This syntagmatic pattern
of scheinen has been attested from the MHG period onward:
(40) er was schön und wol gestalt an synen gliedern, er schein starck
und kúne ... (Lanc 376, 34, MHDWB)
‘he was beautiful and his limbs were well formed, he seemed
strong and bold …’
Sentence (40) exemplifies the gradient transition from the intransitive use
of the verb (stark scheinen where stark – used in isolation – could be an
adverb) to the copula use (kühn scheinen where kühn favours an interpreta-
tion as a predicative element reducing scheinen to a copula); in (40) the
copula use is the most plausible one for both complements.
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 253
Often, the copula scheinen is used with (free) dative participants refer-
ring to the observer to whom something or somebody appears in this or that
way, cf.:
(41) Wanne daz selb dinch scheinet uns greozzer, so ez nahent ist,
danne so ez verre ist. (KvMSph 13, 10, MHDWB)
‘The same thing seems to us bigger, when it is nearby than when it
is far away.’
The third syntagmatic pattern, scheinen & zu-infinitive, appears first in
ENHG and at the beginning is restricted to the infinitives of sein ‘to be’.
Later on, further infinitive verbs come to be used with scheinen. As this
construction will be discussed in greater detail in the following sections,
the following example may suffice to exemplify this use:
(42) Was da scheinte mein unglück zu seyn. (Simpl. 3 (1684), 669, tak-
en from DWB 14, 2442)
‘What seemed to be my bad luck.’
In the fourth syntagmatic pattern, scheinen usually embeds a complement
clause with dass ‘that’ or als ob ‘as if’. This syntagmatic pattern also dis-
plays different meanings in the history of German. It has been pointed out
that it has been attested from the 18th
century onward (cf. Paul and Henne
1992, DWB). As our corpus data reveal, however, it already existed in the
MHG and OHG period (see 48).
(43) Nun scheinet daß M. G. Herr zugebe daß im nachdencken und
erforschen sich schöhne vortheil finden (BA Leib 4)
‘Now it seems that M. G. Herr admits that there are lovely advan-
tages in thinking and investigating.’
The parenthetical scheinen in constructions like (mir) scheint ‘it seems (to
me)’ or (so) scheints ‘(as) it seems’ has the status of an adverbial and does
not show any syntactic connection to the clause it is used in (44). In our
corpus data this syntagmatic pattern, which probably developed out of
syntagmatic pattern 4, occurs first in ENHG. It will not be treated further
here.
(44) Es war, wie es schien, niemand schoener, niemand geschickter und
vollkommner, als ich. (BA Gel)
254 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
‘There was, as it seemed, nobody more beautiful, smarter and more
perfect than me.’
2.2. Scheinen in Old High German
In OHG the first syntagmatic pattern of scheinen represents the most com-
mon use of this verb. Neither scheinen as a copula nor scheinen with infini-
tival complements are found in this period. In our OHG data we registered
27 occurrences of scheinen all told. 15 (i.e., 55,6%) of them are clear cases
of intransitive scheinen with the meaning of visual effect. Scheinen is ei-
ther literally used as a verb of visual appearance, as in (45), or it is used
metaphorically to describe a (visual) effect, as in (46):
(45) daz kemeine ring ist. allero dero anderro sternon. die in_heiterero
naht skînent. (Notker 18496, KALI-Corpus)
‘there is the common ring of the other stars which shine during
bright nights’
(46) Bluot skein in uuangon (Ludwigslied 492, KALI-Corpus)
‘the blood shone in cheeks’
Moreover, scheinen is used (3 out of 27 occurrences) with the preposition
an ‘at, on’, cf.:
(47) An allen dien rationibus. skînet tero guoton maht. unde dero ube-
lon guissiu unchraft (Notker 22687, KALI-Corpus)
‘In all these reflections the power of good and the sure powerless-
ness of evil shows up’
Here, scheinen can be interpreted as a verb of appearance, meaning ‘to
appear’, as it refers to something which shows itself (clearly). On the other
hand, scheinen can be read as meaning ‘to be recognized’. Importantly,
scheinen does not have any nuances of non- or counter-factual status of the
described situation. Rather the verb is used to emphasize the clearly factual
status of what is being said.
Further occurrences of scheinen may be interpreted in this manner as
well. In 9 out of 27, i.e. in one-third of all instances scheinen is followed
by a complement clause with daz ‘that’, uuio ‘as’, cf.:
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 255
(48) Unde skînet. taz platonis reda uuariu ist. (Notker 22716, KALI-
Corpus)
‘And it is evident [lit. ‘shines’] that Plato’s words are true.’
These findings obviously contradict the observation mentioned in the last
section that scheinen with complement clauses appears only from the 18th
century onwards. As in Notker, these instance translate the Latin unperson-
al predicate liquet ‘it becomes obvious’ and thus are ‘loan translations’, we
will not discuss this construction any further, although they obviously have
been handed down to MHG (see next section).
2.3. Scheinen in Middle High German
Some changes may be detected in MHG, although the overall situation is
fairly similar to OHG. Scheinen is still very common as a main intransitive
verb denoting a visual effect emanating from entities like the sun, the
morning, jewels, swords etc. Scheinen is also used with a more abstract
meaning, expressing the obvious status of factual situations. In this read-
ing, scheinen combines with subjects referring to abstract entities, e.g.:
(49) Dô got daz gebôt, sô der chôr wart zestôret. dô scein der gotes
gwalt (Gen 35, MHDWB)
‘As God had demanded so the chore was destroyed. There shone
God’s power’
A relevant innovation in MHG is that scheinen starts to be used very fre-
quently as a copula. The number of such uses is relatively high (ca. one
third) in our MHG corpus data. Scheinen as a copula combines with vari-
ous types of predicative expressions from the very beginning: with noun
phrases, adjectives, prepositional phrases, perfect and present participles.
The copula scheinen is sometimes accompanied by a free dative object
which refers to the person seeing or in some other way perceiving the sit-
uation. Furthermore the copula scheinen often occurs in contexts where the
appearance of an entity (the subject of the sentence) is compared to another
entity that usually has the ability to shine (which is normally gold), as in
(50). Scheinen as a copula occurs also in other contexts of comparison
where the way in which an entity or person appears (to some observer) is
explicitly compared – or confronted – to the way it (really) is, cf. (51).
256 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
(50) Sin schilt schein als ein golt. (Herb 9977, MHDWB)
‘His sword shone as gold.’
(51) So schinent si uswendig wise und sint doch alle leider inwendig
toren. (Mechth 5: 8, 35, MHDWB)
‘Thus they seem wise outside and are however silly inside.’
In such contexts the original lexical meaning of scheinen of emanating a
visual effect is still present, however the comparative structure allows a
conversational implicature focussing on the difference between real exis-
tence and visual impression. Thus, this use of the copula scheinen may be
seen as an untypical context. The next section will show that it gained in
importance and became very frequent in ENHG.
It is particularly relevant that in MHG specific structures appear and are
spreading which can be best described as a constructional fusion of the old
structure as represented in (48) with the (newly developing) copula verb
scheinen. In such contexts scheinen partly has the formal characteristics
which are typical for a copula, i.e. it combines with a subject predicative.
In the vast majority of the examples found in our corpus data the predica-
tive element is the adverb wol ‘well, certainly, indeed’. At the same time
the formal similarity to OHG constructions with the complement clauses is
obvious.
(52) ez schînet wol… daz mîn vrouwe ein wîp ist… (Iw 3127,
MHDWB)
‘It is indeed obvious that my wife is a woman’
(53) Das schinet uch an uwerm libe wol das ir darumb nit enwißent.
(Lanc 283, 12, MHDWB)
‘It is also obvious from your body that you do not know about it.’
(54) wie wol daz an im schein,/daz er an freuden was verzaget! (Eracl
3140, MHDWB)
‘how well it seemed from him that he gave up hope of being hap-
py’
As the above examples also show, scheinen co-occurs with prepositional
phrases with an (see (53) and (54)), similar to the OHG structures de-
scribed in the previous section. The prepositional phrase refers to some-
thing which serves as a kind of proof for the statement made in the com-
plement clause. We suggest that these constructions – together with its
context sensitive interpretation – can be seen as the first predecessors of
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 257
the present evidential meaning of the construction scheinen & zu-infinitive.
In these specific contextual configurations scheinen shows first signs of a
development towards a secondary predication, as it qualifies the statement
of the complement clause as obvious and without doubt. It would be pre-
mature to say that scheinen already exhibits an evidential meaning, howev-
er. At this point we can speak of a new untypical context of scheinen with
its unique formal as well as semantic characteristics. This construction has
the form [scheinen & (anPP) & (wol) & daz] and the meaning ‘(from this)
it is obvious that’ or ‘(from this) one can clearly see that’. Further evidence
for the existence of this specific construction type of the lexical verb
scheinen in the MHG period is provided by examples, where scheinen ap-
pears as an infinitive complement of the verb lassen ‘to let’. The combina-
tion with lassen may be paraphrased with ‘to make sth. clear’, ‘to show’:
(55) dô lie aber schînen/der grüene ritter, wer er was. (UvZLanz 2960,
MHBWB)
‘The green cavalier made it look obvious who he was.’
We can conclude that scheinen undergoes two relevant changes in MHG:
(i) It develops a copula verb use, whereby it combines with all types of
predicative expressions.
(ii) It comes to be used in a new construction [scheinen & (anPP) & (wol)
& daz] with a specific meaning which can be seen as a first predeces-
sor for the present evidential meaning.
2.4. Scheinen in Early New High German
The most relevant changes towards the establishment of the evidential con-
struction scheinen & zu-infinitive happened in ENHG. As has been pointed
out by several authors (cf. Ebert 1976: 41f., Behaghel 1924: 319, Askedal
1998, Diewald 2000, 2001), at this time scheinen first comes to be used
with infinitive complements. Before we deal with this development in
more detail, let us give a brief survey of the constructional variation of
scheinen found in our ENHG data.
Scheinen is still common in its original lexical variant as a main intran-
sitive verb, though with decreasing frequency. The copula scheinen is the
most frequent syntagmatic pattern in that period of time. From this we can
conclude that scheinen had established its copula function among its stan-
258 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
dard uses. It should be noted that scheinen as a copula exhibits a large se-
mantic diversity when it is used in different contexts. Its meaning ranges
from the expression of the appearance of something/someone, as in (56), to
the indication of a perceptional effect of something/someone to someone,
as in (57), and further to the expression of a deceptive or delusive appear-
ance of something/someone that is explicitly contrasted to its actual being,
as in (58). These manifold interpretations of scheinen as a copula seem to
be new for this verb. Neither in MHG nor in OHG did scheinen have such
a variety of readings.
(56) er schein ein starker svfer man…, vnd schein wol vffe sine fvnfe
vnd fierzig iare. (B 231)
‘he seemed a strong neat man … and seemed well in his forty-fifth
year‘
(57) Die Zeitung scheinet mir zu unglaublich. (B 147)
‘The message seems (to) me too unbelievable.’
(58) es sind noch einige kleinigkeiten übrig, welche so nüzlich seyn als
sie gering scheinen. (BA Leib 1)
‘there are still some small things left, which are as useful as they
seem trivial.’
The construction [scheinen & (anPP) & (wol) & daz] described in the last
section continues to exist in ENHG where it displays a much lower fre-
quency and slight shift in form and meaning. First, it takes embedded com-
plement clauses with als wenn and als ob ‘as if’:
(59) Es scheinet/als wenn diese Tapfferkeit mit keinem geringen Lohne
werde zufrieden seyn. (B 147)
‘It seems as if this bravery will not be satisfied with a lesser wage.’
Second, scheinen combines with complement clauses with dass ‘that’ with
the subordinate verb used either in its subjunctive or in its indicative form.
(60) Es ist auch kein wunder, wie mans damit macht, denn offt scheint
daß mans nicht brauchen wolle hinter die wahrheit zu kommen...
(BA Leib 4)
‘This is no wonder how one does it, because (it) often seems that
one does not want to use it to get to the truth of the matter …’
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 259
Furthermore the old constructional pattern can be recognized in sentences
with complement clauses without complementizer:
(61) Diese leüte sind ohne erregung und feuer, es scheint, sie seyen
zwar aus der Adamischen erde gemacht, allein der Geist des le-
bens sey ihnen nicht eingeblasen worden. (BA Leib 1)
‘These people are without any excitement and fire, it seems, al-
though they are made from Adam’s earth, the spirit of life has not
been blown into them.’
Finally, scheinen is used parenthetically as in the following example:
(62) Dan obe woll der Herr daselbst im anfang seins Sermons (wie es
scheint) allein von der Geistlicher/vnd nit Sacramentalischer Nies-
sung redet (B 155)
‘Then although at the beginning of his sermon the Lord himself
speaks (as it seems) only about the spiritual and not about the sa-
cramental pleasure.’
In all these structures, which first evolve in ENHG, scheinen has a slightly
different semantics compared to the meaning of the MHG construction,
from which we suppose it to have arisen. Namely, their meaning is very
similar to the meaning of the copula verb scheinen and from the assertion
of the obviousness (factuality) of a situation to the expression of its doubt-
fulness, i.e. its mere appearance (to someone). An additional note is in
place here concerning the semantic changes of scheinen. As has been noted
in the previous section, the prepositional phrase with an in the MHG con-
struction [scheinen & (anPP) & (wol) & daz] could be potentially inter-
preted as indicating evidence for the statement formulated in the comple-
ment clause. Though the construction itself has been formally dis-
integrated, i.e. it was replaced by several new constructions of ENHG, its
semantic content has remained roughly the same. In (63), for example, it is
the parenthetical prepositional phrase with nach ‘according to’ that refers
to visually perceived evidence. Thus the relational meaning of scheinen,
i.e. the expression of a logical connection between two textually men-
tioned situations, is still preserved in the new developed constructions in
the ENHG period, too.
(63) so ist gewiß, daß sie, eusserlichem ansehen nach, scheinet, ob ihr
gantzes Hertz nichts als Andacht, Traurigkeit vnd Kyrieleyson wä-
260 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
re. (B 237)
‘thus it is certain that she, according to her outward appearance,
seems as if her heart consists of nothing but devotion, sadness and
Kyrie eleison.’
Now, let us turn to the infinitive construction with scheinen which first
appear in the 16th
century. The only infinitive verb scheinen first combined
with was the verb sein ‘to be’ with or without the particle zu ‘to’ (see (64)
and (65) respectively, which are taken from one and the same text).
(64) Wiewol es nun gar frembdt vnd schier vnglaubbar scheint seyn/ist
es doch mehr denn warhafftig (B 245)
‘Although it seems to be very strange and almost unbelievable, still
it is more than true’
(65) aber ich habs erfahren/daß es keine Marcasita seynd/sondern
scheinen Goldtreiche Mineralien zu seyn/vnnd seyndt nichts
anders (B 245)
‘but I learned that they aren’t Marcasita but seem to be golden
minerals and are nothing else’
The appearance of scheinen with infinitives can possibly be traced back to
the copula uses of this verb and analogical extensions using werden and its
constructional spectrum as a model (also cf. Diewald 2000, 2001; Dal
1966: 102ff). Thus, a new syntagmatic pattern of scheinen is established,
namely the construction [scheinen & (zu) & sein]. We suggest that [schei-
nen & (zu) & sein] is the critical context for the development of the infe-
rential construction, which means that it served as a kind of catalyst trig-
gering the development of a more general constructional pattern scheinen
& zu-infinitive with all types of infinitives. That is, the construction
[scheinen & (zu) & sein] opened a door for another development, i.e., for
the grammaticalization of the inferential evidential construction.
Let us first quickly describe the changes on the formal side of this con-
struction. Already in the 17th
century scheinen shows combinations with
infinitives other than sein:
(66) so scheinets doch im ubrigen nicht ganz ungefahr zu kommen… (B
257)
‘Though for the rest it seems to be [lit.: come] not without reason’
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 261
(67) Und weiln die Teutsche Sprache vor vielen andern dem Ursprung
sich zu nähern scheinet, so sind auch die Grund-Wurtzeln in der-
selben desto besser zu erkennen (G Leib 5)
‘And while the German language seems to approach the origin
prior to all other [languages], the better the basic sources of the
others can be recognized.’
The following example from our corpus provides strong evidence that the
construction [scheinen & zu-infinitive] originates from the copula con-
struction. In (68) scheinen combines simultaneously with an adjective hei-
lig, i.e. it is used as a copula, and with a zu-infinitive zuverehren, i.e.
represents an instance of the new infinitive construction:
(68) Und diese Ehre begleitete von außen ein vortrefflicher Ruhm bei
Fremden/eine Verwunderung von Abgelegenen/so daß HORST mit
Ruhm und Preiß wie uberschuttet lebte/HORSTENS Nahme allen
Musen heilig und zuverehren schiene. (B 257)
‘And this honor was accompanied outside by admirable glory from
strangers and by astonishment from remote people, so that Horst
lived as if he were overwhelmed with glory and awards, Horst’s
name seemed to all muses holy and to be adored.’
Not only zu-infinitives of verbs other than sein come to be used with schei-
nen. In (69) scheinen combines with a passive infinitive, in (70) it is used
with a perfect infinitive, in (71) a complex infinitive phrase with a modal
verb wollen serves as an infinitive complement of scheinen.
(69) Jn Metaphysicis und Physicis, welche doch zu seiner Profession so
genau erfordert zu werden nicht schienen/wuste er die subtilesten
Streitigkeiten zuerzahlen/ja was erzahlen? mit scharfem Urtheil zu
entscheiden. (B 257)
‘In metaphysics and physics, which seemed not to be required for
his profession that exactly, he knew…’
(70) alle Lieblichkeiten schienen ihre Hande in seiner verewigten Dinte
abgewaschen zu haben. (B 257)
‘all the loveliness seemed to have washed its hands in his eterna-
lized ink’
262 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
(71) Der Sterbende schien sich noch einmal aufrichten zu wollen… (BA
Gel)
‘The dying man seemed to try and raise himself up once again.’
Such a rapid spread of the constructional pattern scheinen & zu-infinitive is
indeed very curious and has been neither satisfactorily understood nor ex-
plained so far. One possible explanation for this has been offered in
Diewald 2000. It is suggested that the grammaticalization process of the
construction scheinen & zu-infinitive was to a large extent influenced by
the grammaticalization process of the deictic variants of the German modal
verbs. Since the constructional pattern MV & infinitive was already gram-
maticalized to a high degree in ENHG, scheinen could easily form similar
structures due to analogical transfer. Here we would like to offer a slightly
revised explanation. The grammaticalization process of the German modal
verbs towards (modal deictic) factuality markers was without any doubt an
important factor in the development of infinitive constructions with schei-
nen, as they represented the same formal constructional pattern. However
scheinen has not developed towards a grammaticalized factuality marker
but towards an evidential marker. From this point of view the development
of the construction werden & infinitive most probably served as a model
for analogical transfer. Since werden & infinitive is formally very similar
to modal verbs, the above presented hypothesis is still plausible. As, how-
ever, werden has evidential semantics and has developed towards an infe-
rential evidential marker, it is more reasonable to suggest that scheinen was
formed analogically to werden.
To conclude, the development of the construction scheinen & zu-
infinitive in ENHG can be described as a series of analogical extensions,
leading from the copula uses to the development of the infinitive construc-
tion. After the construction [scheinen & (zu) & sein] was built analogically
to other copula verbs, the next analogical transfer was made possible. In
analogical to the modal verbs and especially to the construction werden &
infinitive scheinen came to be used with infinitives of other verbs as well.
As for the semantics of the verb scheinen in ENHG, it can be said that it
still remains rather inhomogenous. Apart from the main intransitive verb,
where scheinen preserved the meaning of visual effect, in all other syntag-
matic patterns it developed a more complex meaning, including various
nuances (and therefore permitting variable implicatures depending on the
context of usage) from indication of the factual status of the described
event to the expression of the mere appearance (which may reveal either
the real or the ‘pretended’ status of the described event). This – to some
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 263
extent underspecified – meaning of scheinen is shared by (i) the copula
verb, (ii) scheinen with complement clauses, (iii) the parenthetical schei-
nen, and (iv) scheinen & infinitive.
2.5. Scheinen in the 18th
century
In the 18th
century each of the syntagmatic patterns described in the pre-
vious sections – though remaining stable formally – establishes its own, i.e.
specialized, meaning. We begin with scheinen with complement clauses.
The formal realization of this syntagmatic pattern becomes relatively stable
and remains so till today. Scheinen typically takes the formal subject es ‘it’
and is followed by a complement clause with the verb in the subjunctive
(either subjunctive I or subjunctive II). The complement clause is intro-
duced by the conjunction dass ‘that’, als ‘as’, or als ob/als wenn ‘as if’, or
it appears without any conjunction at all. The same formal distribution of
the pattern can be observed in PDG (see Section 6.2). The meaning of this
syntagmatic pattern underwent specialization from the ENHG period on-
wards. From the 18th
century onwards it has referred to an impression (of
an observer) which is produced by some entity or situation. The impression
may be more or less specific, it may also be more or less plausible; it can
further coincide with reality or may contradict it. Scheinen is normally
chosen to mark the perspective of the witness of the situation (who may be
the speaker, too). That is, the situation is represented from the point of
view of an observer. In this construction scheinen can be used to introduce
visually (or in some other way directly) perceived situations as well as to
describe opinions and personal beliefs. This meaning may be paraphrased
as follows:
“from my/someone’s point of view, p.”
Compared to the earlier historical periods, scheinen lost its affirmative
meaning, i.e., it cannot be used to emphasize the obvious and unchallenged
status of events anymore. It furthermore gave up the meaning of universal
validity of facts. Now it expresses the (point of) view of an observer.
The copula verb scheinen, including its uses as a compound copula with
added infinitive sein and some of its uses with other infinitive verbs,5
on
the other hand, has preserved the ambiguous meaning. It can be used in its
neutral meaning referring to the fact that something appears (to somebody)
in a particular way, i.e., without further evaluation of this appearance. In
264 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
other words, it describes an impression that is caused by something (which
is the subject of the sentence) by means of its visual or other kinds of ap-
pearance. Usually, there is an observer who has this particular impression,
but s/he does not have to be mentioned. This core meaning of the copula
scheinen may be paraphrased as follows:
“something/someone is perceived (by an pbserver) as X.”
Three different interpretations of this core meaning of the copula scheinen
may be distinguished. First, the observer may be explicitly mentioned by
means of a (free) dative object. In this case, the personal (subjective) im-
pression of the observer is expressed. This reading corresponds to the
present reading of the construction which we named “subjective” or ob-
server-based scheinen in Section 6.2.2.
(72) Nun schien es aber dem Herrn von Mehlfeld Zeit zu seyn, seinen
Kopf gänzlich aus der Schlinge zu ziehn und zugleich den Neid der
übrigen Dienerschaft seinem Gegner auf den Hals zu laden.
(Knigge, DE-Gutenberg)
‘Now it seemed to Herr von Mehlfeld to be the right time to pull
his head out of the noose…’
Second, the copula scheinen may be used to express the illusory appear-
ance of something/someone. In this case scheinen is often used in contexts
where the real state of existance of something is explicitly confronted with
its illusory appearance (this meaning corresponds to the present meaning of
scheinen which we described as “make-believe” scheinen, see Section
6.2.2). Another possible interpretation is that the illusory appearance is
intended by the described person.
(73) Du kannst zur rechten Zeit zerstreuet scheinen, wenn Du etwas
nicht hören, auf etwas nicht antworten willst. (Knigge, DE-
Gutenberg)
‘You can seem distracted at the right time, if you don’t want to
hear something or to answer a question.’
Third, the copula scheinen may introduce situations about whose factual
status there is no doubt. In such cases scheinen has evidential meaning
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 265
comparable to the meaning of the present evidential construction scheinen
& zu-infinitive.
The construction scheinen & zu-infinitive, which, as we have shown in
the previous section, originated from the copula scheinen, manifests a simi-
lar semantic ambiguity, i.e. persistence (cf. Section 6.2 for persistence in
the evidential construction scheinen & zu-infinitive in PDG). It is reasona-
ble to assume that in the 18th
century the persistence in the infinitive con-
struction was even stronger than it is in PDG and that the construction was
grammaticalized to a lesser degree as compared to PDG. For example, in
the 18th
century, scheinen & zu-infinitive still occurs in analytical tenses
and moods and sometimes functions as an infinitival complement. Moreo-
ver it still allows for the extrapolation of the infinitive, which is no longer
possible in PDG (see Section 6.2):
(74) … das alles kontrastierte so sonderbar mit der Absicht, derentwe-
gen er sie besuchte und welche sie durch die höfliche Annahme
seines Briefes und die darauf ertheilte mündliche Antwort zu be-
günstigen geschienen hatte (Knigge, DE-Gutenberg)
‘All this contrasted so curiously with the intention with which he
visited her and which she, having politely accepted his letter and
given him an oral answer, had seemed to abet.’
(75) Leider bin Auch ich ein Ding von vielen Seiten, die Oft nicht so
recht zu passen scheinen mögen. (Lessing, DE-Gutenberg)
‘Unfortunately I am also a thing of many sides which may often
seem not to match properly.’
As early as in the 18th
century scheinen & zu-infinitive shows clear indica-
tions of its semantic development towards an inferential evidential marker.
The lexical meaning of scheinen is already bleached to a considerable de-
gree. As exemplified in (76), scheinen may combine with infinitives which
are very close to the original lexical meaning of scheinen (here, it is the
verb hervorleuchten ‘to shine’):
(76) Das Kind auf ihren Armen ist ein Kind über gemeine Kinder erha-
ben, durch ein Gesichte, aus welchem ein Strahl der Gottheit durch
die Unschuld der Kindheit hervorzuleuchten scheinet. (Winckel-
mann, DE-Gutenberg)
‘The child in her arms is a child that is above all usual children,
266 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
due to a face out of which a divine ray seems to shine through the
innocence of childhood.’
Furthermore scheinen comes to be used with first person subjects, whereby
the subject does not control the verbal action. The inferential evidential
meaning of the construction is evident here:
(77) Unterdessen bat er mich doch, einige Zeit bey ihm zu bleiben, wur-
de nach und nach vertraulicher gegen mich, ich schien ihm zu ge-
fallen, und endlich both er mir sogar an, mich als Gesellschafter
bey sich zu behalten. (Knigge, DE-Gutenberg)
‘Meanwhile he asked me to stay with him for a while, he got more
and more intimate towards me, I seemed to please him…’
There are many examples in our corpus in which scheinen & zu-infinitive
has direct evidential meaning, i.e. it indicates that the speaker makes
his/her statement on the basis of some direct (perceptual, visual) input.
(78) Sie schien etwas Leidendes und Furchtsames in ihren Gesichtszü-
gen zu verrathen. (Knigge, DE-Gutenberg)
‘Her countenance seemed to reveal suffering and timorousness.’
Infinitive verbs with abstract semantics, i.e. verbs which do not denote any
particular action or state, come to be used with scheinen. This was not the
case in the earlier periods: in ENHG scheinen combined only with verbs
with specific semantics of action such as gehen ‘to go’, kommen ‘to come’,
verändern ‘to change’ etc. In the 18th
century verbs of different kinds are
found in combination with scheinen. Such infinitive verbs as deuten ‘to
suggest’, andeuten ‘to hint at’, anzeigen ‘to indicate’ in particular point to
the fact that scheinen is involved in the process of semantic reinterpreta-
tion, whereby its lexical semantics is bleached. The unambiguously (infe-
rential) evidential reading of scheinen & zu-infinitive is illustrated by the
following examples:
(79) Alles, wonach du strebst, ist neu und schön und groß, aber du
scheinst es nicht zu wissen... (Wackenroder, DE-Gutenberg)
‘Everything you strive for is new and beautiful and big, but you
seem not to know this.’
Scheinen & zu-infinitive 267
(80) Er schien mir vollkommen zu gehorchen; es war ihm unmoeglich
mir etwas abzuschlagen; er hielt alles fuer genehm, was ich ver-
langte. (BA Gel)
‘He seemed to entirely obey me; it was not possible for him to
refuse me something; he regarded everything I asked for as plea-
sant.’
(81) Die schönern Arten von Tieren unter andern Himmelstrichen
scheinen ihnen nicht bekannt gewesen zu sein; wenn man aus ein-
zelnen Fällen, von dem Pferde des Marcus Aurelius, von den bei-
den Pferden in Monte Cavallo, ja von den vorgegebenen
Lysippischen Pferden über dem Portal der St. Markuskirche in Ve-
nedig, von dem Farnesischen Ochsen und den übrigen Tieren die-
ses Gruppo, schließen darf. (Winckelmann, DE-Gutenberg)
‘They seem to have been unfamiliar with the finer species of ani-
mals under other skies; if one may infer from individual cases,
from the horse by Marc Aurel, from both horses in Monte Caval-
lo…’
While in (80) and (81) the premises, i.e. pieces of information used by the
speaker as a basis for his/her statement, are explicitly mentioned, in (79),
there is no textual explication of information available to the speaker. As
can be seen from the examples above the meaning of scheinen & zu-
infinitive is in many ways different from that of the copula verb scheinen.
The infinitive construction does not show a great diversity in its readings,
having only evidential meaning as its basic semantics. It indicates that
there is some evidence which is used by the speaker as a basis for his/her
statements. Thus, we may state that the evidential meaning – direct as well
as inferential – developed and established itself already in the 18th
century.
This meaning of scheinen & zu-infinitive in the 18th
century may then be
described as follows:
“due to some pieces of information available to the speaker, p.”
To summarize, in the 18th
century scheinen & zu-infinitive had already
reached a critical stage in its grammaticalization towards an evidential
marker. With regard to its formal characteristics it is still very close to the
copula construction with scheinen. However, obvious signs of grammatica-
lization may already be detected. As regards the semantics of scheinen
within infinitive construction, it is already bleached to a considerable de-
268 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
gree. Furthermore, in addition to the direct evidential value, which schei-
nen & zu-infinitive inherited from the copula construction, it establishes
the inferential evidential meaning.
3. Drohen & zu-infinitive
3.1. The development of drohen & zu-infinitive: a short survey
As we generally agree with the scenario offered in Heine and Miyashita
2008 for the diachrony of the German construction drohen & zu-infinitive
we would like to give a brief review of this study before presenting the
results of our own reconstruction work for this verb. Heine and Miyashita
treat the developmental process of drohen & zu-infinitive towards a “func-
tional category” as an instance of grammaticalization, with the lexical va-
riant of drohen preceding functional drohen in time, and the latter originat-
ing from the former. The authors propose four successive developmental
stages for grammaticalized drohen each of them is connected with a partic-
ular construction type, which have been already expounded in Chapter
6.3.1 and are briefly recapitulated here:
(82) C1: Karl droht seinem Chef, ihn zu verklagen.
‘Karl threatens his boss with a lawsuit.’
C2: Uns droht eine Katastrophe.
‘We are now threatened by a disaster.’
C3: Das Hochwasser droht die Altstadt zu überschwemmen.
‘The high water threatens to flood the town.’
C4: Mein Mann droht krank zu werden.
‘My husband threatens to fall ill.’
The overall developmental scenario hypothesized is the following (cf.
Heine and Miyashita 2008: 78):
C1 > C2 > C3/C4
The historical development of drohen is thus divided into four successive
stages which are associated with the constructions introduced above. Let us
briefly survey these four stages of grammaticalization. At the first stage,
Drohen & zu-infinitive 269
covering the OHG and MHG periods, only C1 is attested, i.e. drohen is
used as a lexical verb.
There are already some occurrences of drohen with inanimate subjects in
Middle High German, but they are not suggestive of a pattern; rather, they
appear to be individual instances of metaphorical transfer, where human
agents serve as metaphorical vehicles for certain undesirable forces. (Heine
and Miyashita 2008: 79)
At the second stage, in ENHG, the new construction C2 begins to emerge:
“Rather than standing for a human or animate concept, the construction
begins to be extended productively to contexts with inanimate subject refe-
rents” (Heine and Miyashita 2008: 79). In parallel to this, after 1600 AD,
the drohen-construction, which during the 16th
century continued “to be
associated to a large extent with events referring to temporally unrestricted
situations not implying any change of state” (Heine and Miyashita 2008:
80), becomes increasingly restricted to contexts referring to changes. This
important innovation was accompanied by a second one, i.e. the loss of the
speech act semantics of the verb drohen.
At the third stage, namely in the 17th
century, the construction C3
emerges. In the 18th
century it establishes itself as a “distinct category”. At
this period, drohen already shows considerable changes which are de-
scribed by the authors as evidence of decategorialization. Drohen in C3
loses relevant morpho-syntactic properties as it can no longer be passi-
vized, topicalized, used as an infinitival complement or undergo extraposi-
tion etc. (for a detailed description see Section 6.3). In short, drohen in C3
is grammaticalized to a very high degree.
Finally, the construction type C4 develops roughly from 1750 onwards.
At this stage functional drohen comes to be used with human subjects. In
such contexts the subject cannot be interpreted as controlling the action or
acting intentionally.
While agreeing with this general outline of the developmental process
of drohen sketched by Heine and Miyashita 2008, our analysis also led to
some diverging conclusions – not least because we have analyzed the de-
velopment of drohen not in isolation but in connection with other construc-
tions.6
One of the main differences between our analysis and the analysis
presented in Heine and Miyashita 2008 concerns the status of the construc-
tion C4, which is treated by them as a distinct category. For us, however,
C3 and C4 are functionally equivalent, as they represent the grammatica-
lized variant of drohen as an evidential marker. The differences between
270 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
them are a matter of further grammaticalization and integration in the ver-
bal grammatical system of German, as will be discussed below.
Heine and Miyashita 2008 have demonstrated that the development of
drohen is not a language specific phenomenon (this observation holds also
for the cognates of the verb promise). Comparative data from other Euro-
pean languages (French, Spanish, Dutch and English) point to parallel de-
velopments in these languages and provide strong evidence for the exis-
tence of a language independent grammaticalization channel, which in
German is instantiated by the change of drohen from a lexical towards a
grammatical item. The next sections sketch our reconstruction of the deve-
lopmental history of German drohen drawing primarily on the extensive
corpus analysis.
3.2. Drohen in Old and Middle High German
The following three syntagmatic patterns can be distinguished for the verb
drohen in the diachrony of German:
1) drohen as a lexical verb with agentive semantics;
2) drohen as a lexical verb with non-agentive semantics;
3) drohen as an auxiliary verb with evidential semantics.
This classification differs from the construction types proposed by Heine
and Miyashita (for details see Section 6.3.1).
First, it does not classify C2 (Uns droht eine Katastrophe ‘We are now
threatened by a disaster’) as a functional variant of drohen. Despite some
signs of decategorialization7
observed for it in contrast to the first syntag-
matic pattern of drohen, most of its morphosyntactic properties are identic-
al with the lexical variant of drohen (i.e. C1). Nevertheless, the very fre-
quent presence of accusative complements suggests that we are dealing
with a specific construction type of lexical drohen that undoubtedly has
served as an intermediate stage in the semantic development of the verb
towards a grammaticalized usage.
Second, we integrate C3 and C4 into a single syntagmatic pattern (3), as
in both cases drohen manifests the same – evidential inferential – meaning,
whereby it is insubstantial whether the subject of the proposition can or
cannot in principle control the situation. What Heine and Miyashita classi-
fy as C4 is nothing but the expectable extention of the new grammatical
meaning/function to contexts where it had not been used earlier. Table 1
Drohen & zu-infinitive 271
gives a summarizing view of the three construction types of drohen we are
dealing with in the following.
Table 1. Construction types of drohen
construction type formal characteristics meaning
1
drohen as a
lexical agentive
verb
subject is not restricted to 3rd
person, drohen takes dative
complements, complements with
instrumental mit, damit-
complements (instrumental,
consecutive, final) etc.
lexical meaning:
someone points out that
s/he intends to do some-
thing that is undesirable
for someone else
2
drohen as a
lexical non-
agentive verb
subject referent is restricted to 3rd
person (inanimate), no clauses as
complements, source/cause com-
plement (with von), accusative
object, etc.
lexical meaning:
something undesirable
is going to happen
3
drohen as an
evidential
auxiliary
no restrictions with regard to the
subject referent, only infinitives
as complements, extraposition
not possible, etc.
grammatical meaning:
inferential evidential =
marking the proposition
as inferred
Construction Type 1 has been present throughout the history of German.
(83) Daz ist: unekihafteem indi unstilleem scal hartor drauuen… (Be-
nediktinerregel 3848, KALI-Corpus)
‘That is: to the disobedient and anxious ones there shall be severe
threatening…’
The second construction type of drohen has been attested from ENHG
onwards. As noticed by Heine and Miyashita 2008, individual appearances
of this type can already be found in MHG.
(84) dergleichen auch ohn-zahlbar sorgen, troen im abendt und den
morgen (Hans Sachs; taken from Heine and Miyashita 2008: 80)
‘Countless sorrows of this kind are threatening him evening and
morning.’
While Heine and Miyashita 2008 claim that first attestations of the third
construction type of drohen have been found in the 17th
century texts, in
272 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
our diachronic corpus, the first unambiguous instances of evidential drohen
date from the 18th
century, cf.:
(85) Nach einem so langen Glücke, nach einer so glänzenden Reihe von
Siegen… sieht sich der österreichische Monarch zum zweitenmal
an denselben Abgrund geführt, in den er beim Antritt seiner Regie-
rung zu stürzen drohte. (Schiller, Geschichte des 30jährigen
Krieges, DE-Gutenberg)
‘After such a long period of luck, after such a glorious row of vic-
tories … for the second time the Austrian monarch finds himself
on the edge of the same abyss in which he threatened to fall when
he first entered the cabinet.’
In the following, we briefly summarize the findings on drohen in OHG and
MHG. In OHG only the agentive variant of drohen was present. In our
OHG data we registered 5 occurrences of drohen altogether. All of them
are used to introduce a speech act:
(86) Threuuita ín ther heilant quedanti… (Tatian 29403, KALI-Corpus)
‘The Redeemer threatened them saying…’
In two of five instances, drohen co-occurs with the adverb harto ‘strong,
hard, very much’. In three of five instances drohen takes a dative comple-
ment introducing the addressee of the threat. From this rather small sample
we can nevertheless conclude that in OHG drohen is restricted to the first
construction type: it occurs only with human subjects, it can be modified
by adverb(s), and it takes an optional dative participant. Drohen is clearly a
speech act verb, meaning that the threat is performed by a human agent.
In MHG like in OHG, agentive drohen is still the only existing variant.
It combines with dative complements and is often modified by adverbs
(most frequently by harte, but also by sere ‘very, a lot’), cf.:
(87) Ich bin sô harte niht verzaget,/daz er mir sô harte solte dröun.
(MF: Reinm 21: 3, 2, MHDWB)
‘I am not as much hopeless that he should threaten me that strongly.’
However, as compared to OHG, drohen im MHG displays a much higher
variability of its complements. For example, drohen is often followed by
complement clauses, introducing direct or indirect speech, cf. e.g.:
Drohen & zu-infinitive 273
(88) Als er daz gehôrte ze stet er uns drôte/wir nechômen ûz deme lante
ê wir den minnisten besanten. (Gen 2213, MHDWB)
‘As he had heard it he immediately threatened: we would not be
able to leave [would not come out of] the country before we sent
the Minister.’
These instances suggest that the speech act semantics of drohen is still very
strong in MHG. Another piece of evidence in favor of the dominance of the
speech act semantics of drohen is its co-occurrence with such verbs as
klagen ‘complain’ or schɺlten ‘scold’.
In MHG the first attestations of drohen with zu-infinitive are found, cf.:
(89) daz man ime trôte ze slahen. (Alexanderlied 8164, KALI-Corpus)
‘that they threatened to defeat him’
(90) Er brach im den helm abe und trauwet im das heubt abzuschlagen.
(Lanc 350, 17, MHDWB)
‘He broke his helmet off and threatened him to behead him.’
Another important observation is the appearance of drohen with accusative
objects and with prepositional phrases, most often with the prepositions an
‘on’, in ‘in’, and zu ‘to’ and with nouns such as lîp ‘body’ and leben ‘life’.
In such contexts drohen cannot be interpreted as a pure speech act verb.
Rather drohen refers to the action or behavior of someone which in some
way is threating and which need not be communicated verbally, cf.:
(91) Daz ir mir dreuwet an daz leben? (Herb 8260, MHDWB)
‘That you threaten my life?’
Drohen also comes to be used with the prepositional complements with mit
which specifies the kind of the threatening action, cf.:
(92) uns dunket daz er uns dreu/mit sînem zornigen site. (Iw 6694,
MHDWB)
‘It seems that he threatens us with his angry manner/habit.’
The variability of drohen with regard to its complements suggests a rele-
vant shift in the semantics of this verb: the meaning of drohen gradually
widens from referring to a speech act towards denoting a more abstract
notion of a threat. This shift in meaning of drohen, as we think, was crucial
274 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
for metaphorical extensions, whereby drohen began to be used with non-
human subject referents, cf.:
(93) Set, wie des meien hant dem winter drouwet. (Mügeln 399,1,
MHDWB)
‘See how the hand of May is threatening the winter.’
To conclude this section, we can state the following:
(i) The agentive variant of drohen is predominant up to the MHG period.
However, it undergoes significant meaning changes from OHG to
MHG: it no longer refers to speech acts performed by human subjects.
Instead, it refers to every action or behavior which is characterized by a
negative impact on the undergoer.
(ii) This shift in the semantics of drohen is manifested by the high variabil-
ity of its complements which show considerable increase in contrast to
the OHG period. Most importantly, drohen starts to take infinitival
complements.
(iii)The metaphorical transfer, or personification, which allows inanimate
subjects to combine with drohen helps to form an untypical context in
the development of a new drohen-construction.
3.3. Drohen in Early New High German
For the ENHG period, some significant tendencies in the development of
drohen may be recorded. First, the non-agentive usages of drohen become
established as an independent lexical variant of this verb (see also Heine
and Miyashita 2008: 80f. for further details and figures). Having evolved
via metaphorical extension from the agentive drohen, this variant of the
verb becomes independent. It manifests itself most often in intransitive
sentences with an optional dative object.
(94) dergleichen auch ohn-zahlbar sorgen, troen im abendt und den
morgen. (Hans Sachs, taken from Heine and Miyashita 2008: 80)
‘Countless sorrows of this kind are threatening him evening and
morning.’
Drohen & zu-infinitive 275
Heine and Miyashita (2008: 80) point out: “the popularity of C2 rises dra-
matically, reaching its peak with authors born between 1650 and 1669,
where it occurs with the same rate of frequency (48%) as C1”. Moreover
the construction is mostly associated with temporally unrestricted situa-
tions. That is, the non-agentive drohen introduces situations which are seen
as not being limited to a particular time interval. Rather, the mere fact of
the existence of an observable threatening situation is being asserted, with-
out specifying its localization in time.
Second, the agentive construction type of drohen shows an increasing
tendency to integrate infinitives within its structural scope. On the one
hand, there is an increase in token frequency of infinitives combining with
drohen (from zero in OHG, to 10% in MHG and further to 15% in ENHG).
On the other hand, while in MHG only three infinitive verbs schlagen ‘hit’,
abschlagen ‘behead’ and brennen ‘burn’ (in the sense of ‘set fire’) com-
bine with drohen, in ENHG further infinitives of clearly agentive verbs
come to be used with drohen (e.g. tun ‘do’, erstechen ‘stab’, umbringen
‘kill’, etc.), cf.:
(95) sie tröuwend euch mit dem schwerdt auszureuten und ze verbren-
nen (Maaler 409c, DWB)
‘they threaten to destroy you with sword and to burn you up.’
Hence we can state that the agentive variant of drohen increasingly tends
to take infinitives of agentive verbs which specify the threat: the threat
concerns such actions as killing, beating someone, which all cover negative
actions being dangerous and undesirable. Note that no infinitives are found
within the non-agentive construction type. This fact suggests that (i) we are
dealing with two relatively independent constructions of drohen, whereby
(ii) infinitives are restricted only to those which describe an intended ac-
tion.
We propose that the development of a new construction type of drohen,
i.e., the non-agentive drohen-construction, on the one hand and the estab-
lishment of infinitives as standard complements of the agentive drohen,
both of which occur at roughly the same time, can be seen as relevant in
the development of the evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive, for
the following reasons. First, the evolving and strengthening ability of agen-
tive drohen to take infinitives yielded a conceptual split between the act of
threatening itself and the content of the threat which itself is conceived of
as an action. Second, the possibility to distinguish between two situations
is not given in the non-agentive uses of drohen. Instead, the non-agentive
276 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
construction type of drohen is restricted to introducing immanent undesir-
able, unpleasant or dangerous situations (as a whole). It is necessary to
note that drohen in this function represents situations which are seen from
the speaker’s point of view – they are observed and judged by the speaker
as unpleasant and dangerous. This means that drohen is used to describe
situations which are in some way perceived by an observer. As the subject
of the sentence is always inanimate, it cannot be given the ability to have
intention and to be able to carry out some (unpleasant) action. Thus the
interpretation of drohen in the sense of a declaration of intention to do
something is blocked. Therefore a conceptual split into two distinct situa-
tions is not available for this variant of drohen. For this reason the combi-
natorial variability of this construction type of drohen is limited to a consi-
derable extent.
3.4. Drohen in the 18th
and 19th
centuries
In the 18th
century, the above described variants of drohen – agentive and
non-agentive drohen – continue to exist. We have found 57 instances of
drohen in our corpus data from the 18th
century altogether. The agentive
construction type counting 30 instances is the most frequent type in our
data, whereby the number of infinitive complements in this type is remark-
ably high: it amounts to 12 instances, i.e. ca 40%. In comparison to ENHG
there is thus a considerable increase. Moreover, further infinitive verbs
come to be used as infinitive complements of agentive drohen. Hence the
infinitive complement of the agentive drohen became customary within the
spectrum of its possible complements, together with dative and accusative
objects, complement clauses, and prepositional phrases with mit ‘with’.
Agentive drohen is rarely used in its old speech act meaning, serving as a
one-state predicate, cf.:
(96) Er nannte uns Landläufer, drohete uns festsetzen und ausliefern zu
lassen (Knigge, DE-Gutenberg)
‘He called us hoboes, threatened to arrest us and to hand us over.’
(97) Man schrie, raste, tobte, drohte, und nur die Mittagsglocke konnte
die Streitenden auseinanderbringen. (Klinger, DE-Gutenberg)
‘They shouted, rushed, rioted, threatened, and only the midday bell
could separate the fighting people from each other.’
Drohen & zu-infinitive 277
With the exception of the structure with the accusative object, which is
almost absent in the language of today, the situation in the 18th
and 19th
centuries is very similar to the situation observable in PDG (see Section
6.3).
The next frequent construction type in our corpus data is non-agentive
drohen with 13 instances. Note that 5 of them represent a new structure
with an accusative complement,8
cf. e.g.:
(98) Eine gefährliche Trennung drohte dem ganzen protestantischen
Bunde den Untergang. (Schiller, Geschichte des 30jährigen Krie-
ges, DE-Gutenberg)
‘The whole Protestant union was doomed by a dangerous schism.’
It should be noted at this point that this (new) valency pattern of drohen is
parallel with the common valency pattern of versprechen (for versprechen
see Chapter 8.4). We suggest that this combinatorial structure was formed
analogically to the parallel structure of the agentive drohen. In connection
with the structural analogy, semantic properties are transferred to the new
structure of the non-agentive drohen. In these contexts the non-agentive
construction type of drohen manifests the conceptual split into two separa-
ble situations which we have observed for the agentive variant of drohen in
the ENHG period. On the one hand, there is a dangerous situation, i.e. the
subject of the sentence, which is conceived of as a source of a threat.9
On
the other hand, there is another situation which can be interpreted as a con-
crete effect of this threat, i.e. the accusative complement. In other words:
the non-agentive drohen comes to occur in contexts where an explication
of a threat can be added. In this way, drohen in its non-agentive uses rece-
ives now a temporal-aspectual reinterpretation. The second event, i.e., the
content of the threat, is seen as non-realized at the time of speaking. At the
same time, the (inanimate) subject, which cannot be interpreted as an
agent, is now reinterpreted as a source, or a cause of a dangerous or un-
pleasant situation.
The first attestations of the infinitive constructions with non-agentive
semantics are present as early as in the 18th
century. These are the critical
contexts for the development of drohen, which is treated in Section 5.3 in
detail. We found 12 instances of this pattern, which obviously came into
being via analogical transfer from the agentive drohen with an infinitive
complement.10
It thus represents the typical case of distributional extension
of emergent constructions. Remarkably, 7 of the 12 infinitive constructions
278 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
with non-agentive drohen found in the 18th
century corpus data share rele-
vant properties with non-agentive drohen plus accusative object: (i) their
subjects have the feature ‘inanimate’; (ii) they are interpreted as a cause of
the situation, (iii) which, in turn, is introduced in the infinitival comple-
ment or in the accusative complement respectively.
(99) schon loderte die Flamme, und drohte das herrliche Werk in die
Asche zu legen. (Klinger, DE-Gutenberg)
‘the flame blazed and threatened to burn up the lovely work’
The affinity between (98) and (99) is obvious. The only difference between
them is that the situation effected by the subject is exemplified in the form
of an infinitive complement and not in form of an accusative object, which
typically is a nominalization. Note that the infinitive verbs occurring in
such structures are all action verbs with negative semantics (zerstören ‘de-
struct’, entreißen ‘snatch’, zerreißen ‘disrupt’, etc.). Heine and Miyashita
(2008: 84) propose a similar view: “The infinitival complements of C3 and
C4 can not be traced back to C1; rather, they are the result of a develop-
ment from nominal accusative complement in C2 to infinitival complement
in C3 and C4” [original emphasis]. In the light of our data this statement
must be modified in the following way. Although the agentive construction
type of drohen (the type C1 in the terminology of Heine and Miyashita) is
not the direct precursor of the grammaticalizing construction, it still served
as the structural model that was analogically transferred into the non-
agentive construction type of drohen. This analogical transfer was ‘me-
diated’ semantically via the structure with nominalized accusative com-
plement, which are semantically close to infinitives and which thus was a
catalyst for the conceptual shift in the semantics of the non-agentive va-
riant of drohen described above.
The first, still rare, evidential readings of drohen & zu-infinitive are at-
tested in our text data from the 18th
century, cf. e.g.:
(100) Unser Schiff bedurfte einer völlig neunen Verzimmerung, die sich
bis in den November 1755 zu verzögern drohte. (Nettelbeck, DE-
Gutenberg)
‘Our ship needed a completely new superstructure which threat-
ened to be delayed to November 1755.’
The distinct feature of such constructions is that the subject of drohen can-
not be interpreted as a causing force of the situation introduced in the infi-
Drohen & zu-infinitive 279
nitive complement. Rather, a situation is represented in its entirety, where-
by the subject together with the infinitive complement forms a core predi-
cation. Here, drohen exhibits a true evidential semantics for the first time
in its history: it serves as a secondary predication and modifies the whole
proposition. The situation modified by drohen is conceived of as (i) non-
realized yet and (ii) as being likely to occur. In the following example, the
evidential semantics of the infinitive construction with drohen is obvious:
(101) Walther Fürst schwankt und droht zu sinken, Berta hält ihn. (Schil-
ler, Wilhelm Tell, DE-Gutenberg)
‘Walther Fürst is staggering and is threatening to fall, Bertha holds
him.’
The subject is a human referent, and the event described in the infinitive
complement is a non-action. The subject cannot be interpreted as an agent.
It functions instead as an experiencer of the event formulated by the infini-
tive verb. Thus we are dealing here with a reanalyzed structure, whereby
drohen functions as an auxiliary verb, which modifies the (primary) propo-
sition formed by the subject and the infinitive verb (including its own va-
lence relations). Thus drohen loses all other valence relationships exept for
the ability to combine with an infinitive complement.
There is also another important characteristic of the contextual configu-
rations in which the evidential reading of the infinitive construction arises.
The preceding contexts contain descriptions of some observable pieces of
information which are interpreted as resulting in the situation introduced
with drohen. In other words: the proposition modified by drohen is seman-
tically integrated into a larger text segment. These contextual configura-
tions are – as we think – crucial for the establishment of the evidential
reading of the infinitive construction with drohen. What happens here is a
semantic reinterpretation of the infinitive construction with drohen occur-
ring in specific contexts, whereby the whole proposition is interpreted as
resulting from some other situation. Neither does the subject referent in-
tend (literally or metaphorically) to do something described in the infini-
tive complement, nor does it function as the cause of the described situa-
tion. Instead, it is the pieces of information available to the speaker that are
the source of the described situation now. While such contextual configu-
rations are only rarely observed in the data from the 18th
century, they
come to be very frequent in the 19th
century. It is these contexts which form
the isolating contexts for the evidential reading of drohen & infinitive.
280 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
The following conclusions can be made at this point about the relevant
developments within the overall paradigm of drohen constructions in the
18th
century:
1. The agentive use of drohen continues to exist with the whole range of
its combinatorial possibilities. Importantly, its use with infinitive com-
plements establishes itself as a standard structure.
2. The non-agentive construction type of drohen expands its combinatori-
al potential, as it shows new structures, such as combination with no-
minalizations as accusative objects and – via this stage – with zu-
infinitive complements. These new structures are built analogically to
the existing structures of the first – agentive – construction type of
drohen. Most of these uses may be interpreted as cases of metaphorical
transfer, whereby the inanimate subject of the sentence is given inten-
tional semantics. We consider such structures here as untypical con-
texts, whereby an inanimate subject occurs in combination with non-
agentive drohen and an infinitive verb with (mostly) agentive seman-
tics.
3. The first attestations of the evidential construction type may be de-
tected. Evidential interpretations arise in specific contextual configura-
tions and are mostly triggered by the presence of a non-action verb
and/or an inanimate subject. Frequently, these structures are ambi-
guous between a non-agentive reading described in (2) and a truly evi-
dential reading. These contexts may be thus classified as critical con-
texts, whereby two different interpretations implying two distinct
structural analyses are possible. On the one hand, it is the metaphorical
interpretation implying that a threat comes from an entity, and the infi-
nitive complement explicates this threat. In this case, the infinitive verb
is seen as a complement of the lexical (main) verb drohen, whereby
drohen modifies the subject. On the other hand, it is the evidential
reading implying that drohen introduces a situation which results from
some other facts (introduces earlier in the text). In this case, the subject
together with the infinitive verb forms a proposition which – as a
whole – is modified by drohen as a secondary predication.
As instances of the evidential construction type are still very rarely found
in the 18th
century, let us briefly sketch the situation of the 19th
century.
From now on we will concentrate only on the occurrences of infinitive
constructions, which are polysemous as to the three types of meaning illu-
strated above. The evidential reading is restricted to this structure only so it
Drohen & zu-infinitive 281
is most important to look at the whole class of infinitive constructions
more closely. The number of infinitive constructions increases from 18th
to
the 19th
century (see Table 2), and the number of evidential constructions
increases rapidly (see Table 3). Therefore it can be suggested that the most
relevant changes must have occurred in these structures.
Table 2. The frequency of drohen with infinitives in the corpus data
verb 18th
century 19th
century
¦ with
infinitive
% ¦ with
infinitive
%
drohen 57 24 42,1 196 97 49,5
Table 3. Lexical and evidential readings of drohen & zu-infinitive
verb 18th
century 19th
century
lexical
reading
evidential
(or ambigu-
ous) reading
¦ lexical
reading
evidential
(or am-
biguous)
reading
¦
drohen 12
(50%)
12
(50%)
24
(100%)
19
(19,6%)
78
(80,4%)
97
(100%)
The unambiguous lexical reading of the construction drohen & zu-
infinitive is found in 19 instances out of 97. The subject is usually a human
referent, and the infinitive verb refers to an action. The threat is not re-
stricted to a verbal act.
The amount of untypical contexts (32 instances) is remarkably high,
where the non-agentive drohen occurs with an inanimate subject and an
infinitive verb denoting an (undesirable) action. The subjects found in such
contexts are, for instance, Toben ‘uproar’, Unheil ‘harm’, Verwirrung
‘confusion’, Krampf ‘convulsion’, das Ungeheuere ‘tremendousness’,
Revolution ‘revolution’, Hindernis ‘barrier’, etc. The infinitive verbs oc-
curing in these contexts are e.g. (zer)reißen ‘break’, rauben ‘rob’, fort-
schleppen ‘drag off’, fesseln ‘tie’, hereinbrechen ‘break in’, vernichten
‘destroy’, ersticken ‘stifle’, überwältigen ‘overpower’, etc. Most of these
expressions allow for a metaphorical interpretation, meaning that an un-
pleasant entity causes an undesirable action.
Most of the remaining 46 instances of the non-agentive drohen with in-
finitive may be described as cases of critical contexts. As such, they are –
at least potentially – ambiguous, and further contextually present informa-
tion is often required for one or the other interpretation. For us, cases
282 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
where the evidential reading is most likely are of particular interest.
Consider the following examples:
(102) Irland erhob sich so rasch, daß seine Bewohner die Engländer zu
überflügeln drohten. (mew/WAG.03667, IDS-Corpus)
‘Ireland revolted so quickly that its inhabitants threatened to out-
distance the English.’
(103) Der Abend kam herbei, die Nacht drohte hereinzubrechen.
(GOE/AGM.00000, IDS-Corpus)
‘The evening came, the night threatened to break in.’
(104) Mit seiner Frau, Maria von Tübing, hatte er nur zwei Töchter und
keinen Sohn erzeugt, und sein gräfischer Stamm drohte zu erlö-
schen. (GRI/SAG.00543, IDS-Corpus)
‘With his wife, Maria von Tübing, he had fathered two daughters
and no son, and his noble ancestral line threatened to disappear.’
(105) aber die Sonnenhitze brennt gar zu stark, daß mir das zarte Kraut
zu welken droht… (GRI/KHM.00122, IDS-Corpus)
‘But the sun heat burns so strongly that the tender herb threatens
(to me) to wither.’
There are no particular characteristics, which could be singled out for the
infinitive verbs or for the subject referents of this – evidential – drohen. As
can be seen from the examples above, the subject may be either animate or
inanimate. As regards the infinitive complement, it is either an action verb
or a non-action verb. Without denying the fact that a particular combina-
tion, especially [animate subject + non-action infinitive verb], could indeed
have helped to trigger the evidential reading of the construction, we as-
sume that another factor had much more impact on the rise of an unambi-
guous evidential meaning. In all of the examples represented above, there
is some explicitly mentioned situation which precedes the situation de-
scribed with drohen. We propose that this contextual configuration is cru-
cial for the reinterpretation of the semantics of the whole construction.
There is some entity (i.e. situation, observation) which is distinct from the
subject referent and which has the situation described with drohen as its
result. The link between some (textually present) situation and the de-
scribed situation is established by the speaker: it is the speaker who recog-
nizes that there is a relationship between two situations. In other words, the
speaker draws on available (and in some way obvious) information to make
a statement about the situation. Drohen is employed to mark this link be-
Drohen & zu-infinitive 283
tween some situation and the proposition. This reinterpretation process,
whereby a sequential-relationship is established between the proposition
itself and the preceding texts, is very similar to the process reconstructed
for werden (see Section 8.1).
It should be noted that contexts like those illustrated in (102)-(105) are
still frequent in PDG, though their numbers have fallen as compared to the
19th
century (in our corpus of PDG, such structures amount to less than 1%
of the overall occurrences of drohen, whereas their percentage in our data
from the 19th
century is ca. 10%). As concerns the situation in the 19th
cen-
tury, one important observation may be added to what we have already
said. There is also another kind of contextual configurations of drohen
where only the evidential reading is possible, cf.:
(106) Schon drohte der Zug abermals um eine Felswand zu verschwin-
den. (GOE/AGM.07859, IDS-Corpus)
‘Now the train once again threatened to disappear behind a rock
face.’
Here, there are no explicitly mentioned facts in the text which may be in-
terpreted as preceding or causing the situation introduced by drohen. Dro-
hen indicates that the speaker relies on some observations in making
his/her statement. In such contexts the situation, i.e. pieces of information,
which functions as a source for the described situation, is not textually
present. Instead, it is implicitly present in the speech situation, which is
made clear by the use of drohen & zu-infinitive.
Summarizing this section we state that, in the course of the 18th
and 19th
centuries, there occurs a shift in the meaning of drohen within infinitive
constructions, which can be best described as a relocation of the source
entity. As regards the agentive drohen, the source of a threat lies always in
the subject entity, which is usually a human referent. In the case of the
non-agentive drohen, the source of the threat lies the subject entity (or its
appearance, its characteristics, etc.), too. As regards the evidential drohen,
however, the source lies outside the subject entity: this is some information
available to the speaker which s/he interprets as pointing towards the de-
scribed event. This information is either textually present or contextually
given at the time of speaking. This particular (re-)location of the source
entity is the distinct characteristic of the evidential construction type of
drohen.
284 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
4. Versprechen & zu-infinitive
As the etymon versprechen has a highly complex, multifacetted history and
accordingly, a wide-spread, diversified web of meanings, the following
sketch renders only a small segment of this field, namely those semantic
components which are relevant for the development of the evidential usage
of this verb. Nevertheless, in order to at least hint at the inhomogeneity and
complexity of the etymology of the verb versprechen in German, a – rather
lengthy – quote from Grimm’s dictionary is in place here (the whole entry
extends over 38 columns):
Versprechen hat sich in seiner bedeutung nach den verschiedensten richtun-
gen hin verzweigt; die übersicht zu geben ist nicht ganz leicht. […] Beson-
ders fällt das nebeneinander von positivem und negativem sinne in diesem
worte auf […] diese verschiedenheit könnte vielleicht auf verschiedene
grundformen des präfixes zurückgehen […] das verhältnisz der verschiede-
nen bedeutungen zueinander und ihr vorkommen überhaupt ist verschieden
in den verschiedenen sprachperioden und gegenden […] Versprechen, das
die heutige sprache nur in positivem sinne kennt, wird von LUTHER vor-
wiegend abweisend oder gehässig gebraucht; in den älteren sprachperioden
sind beide richtungen nebeneinander vertreten […] Mit dem 18. jahrh.
schwindet die negative verwendung von versprechen. [‘The meaning of ver-
sprechen has developed in various directions; it is not that easy to give an
overview. […] Particularly remarkable is the coexistence of negative and
positive semantics in this word. […] This diversity might probably have
been influenced by different basic forms of the prefix. […] The relation of
different meanings to each other and their overall usages are different de-
pending on different historical periods and areas. […] Versprechen, which
in the present-day language has only positive meaning, is largely used nega-
tively by LUTHER; in the elder periods of German both readings coexist
[…] From the 18th
century onwards the negative reading of versprechen dis-
appears.’] (DWB, vol. 25, 1448-1501)
The following meanings and uses of versprechen are noted in the DWB
(we have shortened the list to the most central meanings and uses):
I. Versprechen with positive semantics, including the following va-
riants:
A1-3: ‘to promise that something will happen’. Versprechen is a clear
speech act verb which can be used performatively. The subject is usually
able to fulfill the promise, i.e. it takes on the responsibility to bring about
the promised situation.
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 285
A4: A sub-type of versprechen with the positive semantics and a distinct
feature meaning that the subject does not perform a speech act of promis-
ing. Instead, an ‘expectation’, a ‘hope’ is expressed by versprechen, whe-
reby there is something in which this particular assessment originates.
B: ‘to advocate’, ‘to act on someone’s behalf’. This meaning type of ver-
sprechen was present in the elder periods of German and is absent now. Its
use was largely restricted to legal contexts.
C: ‘to claim’, ‘to confiscate’. This variant, like the preceding one, is absent
in PDG and, in the earlier historical periods, was restricted to legal con-
texts.
II. Versprechen with negative semantics, including:
A 1-4: ‘to deny’, ‘to negate’, ‘to refuse’, ‘to reject’, ‘to give up’, etc. This
negative meaning of versprechen has disappeared in the course of the his-
tory of German. Interestingly, in the texts of Luther versprechen is used
only with this meaning.
B: ‘to blame’, ‘to condemn’, ‘to asperse’, etc. This meaning is also no
longer available for versprechen in PDG.
C: reflexive, ‘to make a mistake while speaking’. In PDG only one nuance
of this meaning is still present, meaning ‘to misspeak’.
Since the second group has been completely lost (except the reflexive
form sich versprechen ‘to misspeak’), we focus on the first group.
As the quotations show, the modern variant of the verb versprechen
with positive semantics – as we know it in PDG – had been but one of sev-
eral alternative interpretations of the etymon for a long time. It developed
towards the central lexical variant of the verb, while other meanings either
disappeared or became very rare (and are now realized only in specific
contexts). This process begins in the 18th
century.
At about the same time, the first evidential interpretations of the con-
struction versprechen & zu-infinitive have been attested. According to Paul
(1992, s.v. versprechen), the basis for the evidential meaning developed in
the 18th
century. A similar view is presented in the DWB: “dieser gebrauch
hat sich erst in der jüngeren sprache herausgebildet; er erscheint um 1700,
verbreitet sich dann aber sehr schnell in der schriftsprache und hält sich in
dieser lebendig” [‘this usage has not developed until the younger periods of
the language; it first appears around 1700 AD, spreads very rapidly in the
written language where it continues to exist’]. As our investigations also
prove, the evidential meaning of versprechen originates in the positive
lexical semantics of the verb.
Without dealing with the complex questions concerning the develop-
ment of this verb (e.g.why the positive variant of versprechen could estab-
286 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
lish itself as the central lexical variant) our diachronic analysis starts from
the situation at the beginning of the 18th
century and looks for relevant
changes which most probably led to the establishment of the construction
versprechen & zu-infinitive as an evidential construction.
4.1. Versprechen in the history of German and its development up to Early
New High German
Basically, the following syntagmatic patterns can be distinguished for the
verb versprechen (with positive semantics as delimited in the previous
section) in the diachrony of German:
1) versprechen (as a lexical verb) with commissive speech act semantics;
2) versprechen (as a lexical verb) without reference to speech act;
3) versprechen as a grammatical (semi-)auxiliary with evidential seman-
tics.
To each of these three types, specific characteristics may be assigned:
1) The subject is usually a human referent, versprechen indicates the ver-
bal act of promising; the subject is (in principle) able to carry out the
promised action or – in some way – to bring about the promised situa-
tion; versprechen can be used as a one-place predicate, more common
are, however, its combinations with direct/indirect speech clause com-
plements, with infinitival complements, and with nominal accusative
objects. This syntagmatic pattern corresponds to the sub-types A.1-3
described in the DWB (see previous section).
2) The subject is mostly inanimate11
(and cannot be interpreted as per-
forming a speech act), versprechen indicates an expectation and has
strong future-oriented semantics; most often, versprechen combines
with accusative objects. This syntagmatic pattern basically corresponds
to the sub-type A4 described in the DWB (see previous section).
3) The subject is mostly inanimate and cannot be interpreted as perform-
ing a speech act; versprechen modifies the whole proposition, assign-
ing an inferential evidential value to it; versprechen combines with in-
finitive complements denoting non-actions; all other complements
depend on the infinitive verb.
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 287
As for the first syntagmatic pattern, it has been attested in all historical
periods of German. The OHG example in (107) illustrates versprechen
followed by a complement clause introducing direct speech, in the MHG
sentence (108) versprechen combines with an infinitive complement with
zu.
(107) sô medicus infirm, ságet, mit uuíu er genésen sól … únde ióh fúre-
sprichet: daz ist signum recuperandae sanitatis (Notker 1, 238, 6,
taken from DWB)
‘so the doctor tells the sick one how he should convalesce … and
also promises: this is signum recuperandae sanitatis.’
(108) daz der kunic versprechen het ze leisten sîne bet. (Ottokar, remin-
chronik 85573, taken from DWB)
‘that the King has promised to satisfy his appeals.’
The second syntagmatic pattern occurs first in the 18th
century, cf.:
(109) Gleich der Anfang der Fahrt versprach wenig Gutes. (Nettelbeck,
DE-Gutenberg)
‘The beginning of the journey promised little good.’
From then on, its frequency increased rapidly, and this variant established
itself as an independent lexical variant of versprechen.
As for the third syntagmatic pattern, we found its first instances in our
corpus data from the 19th
century, cf.:
(110) die Vorarbeiten zur “Farbenlehre”, mit denen ich mich seit zwölf
Jahren ohne Unterbrechung beschäftigte, waren so weit gediehen,
daß sich die Teile immer mehr zu runden anfingen und das Ganze
bald selbst eine Konsistenz zu gewinnen versprach.
(GOE/AGA.02616, IDS-Corpus)
‘the preparations for my teory of colour, which have kept me busy
for the last twelve years, were already advanced to a degree that
the parts began to take shape and the whole promised to gain in
consistency.’
Before looking at the details of this evidential construction of versprechen,
we briefly summarize the results of our corpus analysis for the earlier pe-
riods. In our corpus data from OHG we recorded 5 instances of the verb
288 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
firsprehhan altogether. All of them can be interpreted as expressing the
negative semantics of versprechen, meaning generally ‘to disavow, to de-
ny’, cf.:
(111) échert ér dero fórderûn zálo iéhe. des ûzlâzes nemág ér nîeht
ferspréchen (Notker, 16966, KALI-Corpus)
‘if he confesses to the previous claim he cannot deny the conse-
quence.’
In the MHG data (consisting of 96 instances of versprechen altogether),
most of the instances, too, carry the negative meanings mentioned above,
cf.:
(112) ich wolt uch ere thun, und ir habt sie versprochen. (Lanc 388, 12,
MHDWB)
‘I wanted to venerate you and you have refused it.’
However, there are also some examples of positive versprechen (ca. 20-
25). We should mention here, however, that an unambiguous interpretation
of individual cases is often very difficult, as both – negative as well as
positive – interpretations are often possible. Further contextual information
and extra-linguistic knowledge is often required to interpret individual uses
of versprechen.
(113) (W)er den andern vor gericht versprechen sol… (StRAugsb 4, 12,
MHDWB)
‘Who should advocate the other in court…’
As regards our corpus data from the ENHG period, the situation is slightly
different. First, the number of versprechen uses with positive semantics,
namely versprechen as a speech act verb representing a promise in a mod-
ern sense, is relatively high (14 out of 24 instances), as opposed to the ear-
lier historical periods.
(114) Als wult er sagen/Ich hab euch hieruor zuogesagt vnd verspre-
chen. (B 155)
‘As if he wanted to say: I have agreed to this and promised it to
you.’
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 289
Second, more than a half of these uses (8 of 14) manifest a combination of
versprechen with an infinitive. The infinitive may precede or follow the
verb, cf.:
(115) …wie ich jetz zuo thuon versprochen hab. (B 155)
‘… as I have promised you to do.’
(116) des was der guot mann gar wol zuo friden/versprach im auch sei-
nen willen und bitt zuo volziehen. (B 235)
‘the good man was very satisfied and promised him to fulfill his
will and request.’
Summarizing the central characteristics of versprechen, which we consider
relevant for the development of the evidential meaning of the construction
versprechen & zu-infinitive, we note that the the polarity between a nega-
tive and a positive meaning of this verb (which is most probably due to
different origins of its prefix, see above), got resolved in favour of the posi-
tive one. While most of the OHG and MHG instances of versprechen dis-
play its negative semantics, in ENHG the positive variant already domi-
nates.
Another relevant innovation of ENHG is that versprechen comes to be
combined with infinitive complements, which may either precede or follow
versprechen and thus, in the more recent history, represents a standard
complement of (positive) versprechen.
At this point, we can hypothesize that versprechen, starting as a very
ambiguous item with different, sometimes even mutually exclusive mean-
ings, had an inherent semantic component of speaking from the very be-
ginning. Up to ENHG this meaning narrowed towards strong commissive
speech act meaning. In the course of this development versprechen came to
be used as an illocutionary verb in the strict sense. Thus at the end of the
ENHG period the first lexical variant of this verb was established. We sug-
gest that this development (i.e. specification of speech act semantics),
which in contrast to drohen occurred relatively late, may have worked as a
retarding factor for the grammaticalization of the evidential construction
versprechen & zu-infinitive.
4.2. Versprechen in the 18th
century
From the 18th
century onward versprechen with the positive semantics was
the central variant of this verb. At the same time the negative uses of the
290 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
verb almost entirely disappeared. Moreover, again from the 18th
century
onward, versprechen gradually develops evidential semantics, whereby the
denoting of a speech act slowly fades away. For this reason, it is worth
looking into the data from the 18th
century in greater detail.
We detected 152 occurrences of versprechen in our data from the 18th
century. The first important observation is that most of them (122 in-
stances) represent the positive variant of this verb: versprechen most often
denotes a commissive speech act. The verbal act is mostly performed by a
human referent. The content of a promise is always an action or a situation,
which is controlled by the subject of the sentence. That is, versprechen
expresses that someone commits him/herself to do something that s/he is
able to do. This is the prototypical meaning of versprechen which is still
very prominent in PDG. This variant of versprechen shows different reali-
zation structures: versprechen combines with nominal accusative objects,
with infinitive complements and with complement clauses which mostly
explicate the content of the promise. In more than half of its occurrences
(i.e. 62 instances), versprechen combines with infinitive complements.
The second syntagmatic pattern of versprechen is represented in our
corpus data with 10 instances, i.e. ca. 6% of the overall amount. The main
characteristic of this syntagmatic pattern is that versprechen does not de-
note a speech act, but expresses an expectation with regard to the subject
entity, instead. The subject is mostly inanimate (118), though human sub-
jects are not excluded (117), cf.:
(117) Er ist jetzt acht Jahre alt und verspricht ein redlicher teutscher,
grader, gesunder Kerl an Leib und Seele zu werden. (Knigge, DE-
Gutenberg)
‘He is now eight years old and promises to become an honest Ger-
man, an upright citizen, sound in body and soul.’
(118) Der eine Theil versprach Ersatz, der andere Vergebung. (Schiller,
Geschichte des 30jährigen Krieges, DE-Gutenberg)
‘The one part promised replacement, the other forgiveness.’
Here versprechen means ‘to portend, to presage’. Note that the subject still
controls the predicate. In other words: the subject is the source of the
promise. It has features which promise something, so that one might speak
of metonymical transfer (pars pro toto) here. What versprechen indicates
here is that something is expected from the subject of the sentence. It may
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 291
be suggested that such structures arose via metaphorical transfer. Indeed,
we found some cases of a clear metaphorical transfer in our corpus data:
(119) Mein Herz sagt mirs, und es verspricht mir die Wollust… (BA
Gel)
‘My heart is saying it to me, and it promises me lust…’
Thus we can assume that, similarly to the development of the verb drohen
described in Section 8.3, the inanimate subjects came to be used with ver-
sprechen via metaphorical transfer, i.e. personification. The subject cannot
be interpreted as performing a verbal act of promising. Instead, there is
something about the unintentional subject which can be interpreted as me-
taphorically ‘promising’ something else. The content of the promise is
expressed either by a nominal accusative complement or by an infinitive
complement.
Note, however, that both, the first lexical variant of versprechen, denot-
ing a commissive speech act, and the second variant, lacking the reference
to a speech act, appeared at about the same time. Before the 18th
century
none of them was common. This fact suggests that there must be something
else apart from metaphorical transfer that could have influenced such a
rapid development of the second construction type. We argue that an ana-
logical transfer could have served as an additional motive for this devel-
opment. For drohen (see Section 8.3) we have detected that its first non-
agentive uses, which – semantically as well as formally – very much cor-
respond to the second construction type of versprechen, appeared first in
MHG and were already quite common in ENHG. Versprechen, on the other
hand, was much ‘slower’ in its development towards a specific speech act
verb and had not established itself as such until ENHG. Since the latter
resembled drohen in many respects, i.e. semantically (both are speech act
verbs by means of which something is introduced as intended by a human
subject) as well as formally (both combine with animate subjects, nominal
accusative complements, infinitive complements, and direct/indirect
speech clause complements), it is not implausible to assume that drohen
could have served as an analogical model for versprechen. For this reason
metaphorically reinterpreted structures of the second construction type of
versprechen could have appeared so quickly after its first construction type
had been established. We propose that the second construction type of
versprechen manifests the untypical context, where versprechen lacks its
prototypical interpretation as a commissive speech act verb. This stage in
292 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
the development can be seen as the initial stage in the grammaticalization
process leading to versprechen as an evidential marker.
Another specific structure of versprechen deserves particular attention
here. In 16 instances versprechen occurs in a specific structural configura-
tion which is semantically very close to the structures just described. How-
ever, there is one important difference between the two structures, i.e. ver-
sprechen always combines with a dative (reflexive) pronoun, cf.:
(120) Und sie versprachen sich von diesem Richter nichts als Gerechtig-
keit. (BA Gel)
‘And they expected [lit.: promised themselves] of this judge noth-
ing but justice.’
(121) Ich versprach mir von Ihrem Einfalle so viel! (Lessing, Emilia
Galotti, DE-Gutenberg)
‘I expected [lit.: promised myself] so much of your idea!’
As the above examples show, there are some relevant constituents which
form this structure: (i) a subject which is usually a human referent; (ii)
versprechen, meaning ‘to expect something of something/someone’; (iii) a
dative reflexive pronoun referring back to the subject; (iv) a nominative
accusative complement, representing the content of expectation; (v) infor-
mation about the thing/person as a source of the expectation which is most-
ly introduced by a prepositional phrase with von ‘of’ or durch ‘via, by’.
The distinct property of such structures is that they always entail the ref-
lexive pronoun referring back to the subject. A particular perspective on
the situation is expressed: it is the subject’s personal assessment of the
situation. This personal assessment of the situation is anchored in some
entity or situation which is mostly explicated in the text by means of a pre-
positional phrase with von or durch. This is what crucially distinguishes
these structures from the second construction type of versprechen. For this
reason we consider these structures as a relatively independent construc-
tion type of versprechen that develops in the course of the 18th
century (see
also Section 6.4, where we have argued for treating this type as an inde-
pendent lexical variant of versprechen). We suggest that this variant origi-
nates partly in the first construction type of the verb and partly in the for-
mer structures which were existent earlier in the history of German. The
combination of versprechen with reflexive pronouns was already quite
common in MHG and ENHG, whereby versprechen could be interpreted in
both its positive as well as its negative readings. We assume that the new
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 293
lexical variant evolves via integration of the existing formal structures and
a newly established semantics.
To summarize the relevant findings concerning the syntagmatic patterns
of versprechen in the 18th
century, we can state the following:
1) Versprechen establishes itself as a commissive speech act verb, whe-
reas older uses and meanings of this verb disappear.
2) The (lexical) syntagmatic pattern 2 – versprechen without speech act
semantics – develops first in the 18th
century as a result of two interre-
lated processes. We hypothesize that, on the one hand, the new syn-
tagmatic pattern evolves via metaphorical transfer, whereby a non-
intentional and non-committing subject is reinterpreted as a source for
a future situation. On the other hand, this syntagmatic pattern is formed
analogically after the model of the already existing non-agentive con-
struction type of drohen. As we have noted, this construction type may
be classified as untypical context in the grammaticalization process of
the evidential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive.
3) A new lexical variant arises – versprechen with dative reflexive pro-
noun – meaning ‘to expect something of something/someone’ whose
development is (only) partly motivated by the establishment of the first
and the second construction types of versprechen. As we will show in
the next section, this construction type develops towards an indepen-
dent lexical variant of versprechen in PDG.
4.3. Versprechen in the 19th
century
In the 19th
century the first lexical reading of versprechen represents the
central use of the verb. As shown in Table 4, it accounts for 79,5% of the
overall amount of versprechen instances in our corpus material.
Table 4. The overall distribution of versprechen in the 19th
century
construction type amount %
versprechen with commissive speech act semantics 427 79,5
versprechen without speech act semantics 54 10,1
versprechen with a dative reflexive pronoun 56 10,4
total 537 100%
294 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
The construction type 1 has remained the same until now. Versprechen has
commissive speech act semantics, denoting a verbally performed commu-
nicative act of promise. This construction type has typical formal realiza-
tions which have been preserved till PDG (see Section 6.4 for more de-
tails).
Versprechen in (obligatory) combination with a dative reflexive pro-
noun, i.e. the reflexive construction of versprechen, is quite common in our
data (10,4%). As presented in Table 5, in our corpus data we found the
most frequent uses of this construction in the 18th
and 19th
centuries.
Table 5. Reflexive versprechen in the 18th
, 19th
and 20th
centuries
verb 18th
century 19th
century 20th
century
reflexive ¦ reflexive ¦ reflexive ¦
verspre-
chen
16
(10,5%)
152
(100%)
56
(10,4%)
537
(100%)
49
(7,6%)
644
(100%)
Thus we can speak of a newly established lexical variant of versprechen
that manifests itself in particular formal structures and has become largely
independent from other semantic variants of versprechen, most obviously
from its central lexical variant denoting commissive speech acts. The dis-
tinct formal properties of this construction are:
(i) a dative reflexive pronoun referring back to the subject;
(ii) a nominal accusative complement, indicating the content of the expec-
tation; and
(iii)a facultative prepositional complement with von or durch introducing
the entity which is the source of the expectation.
Yet another development of versprechen deserves attention here. As we
have mentioned in the previous section, in the 18th
century versprechen
starts to be used in contexts without reference to a speech act meaning ‘to
portend, to presage’. This syntagmatic pattern continues to develop. In the
19th
century this usage is expanded and accounts for ca. 10% of all uses of
versprechen at that time.
(122) Mit solchen angenehmen Pflichten beschäftigt, sah ich die Sonne
untergehen, die einen folgenden heitern Tag verkündigte und un-
serm Fest ihre frohe glänzende Gegenwart versprach.
(GOE/AGD.06345, IDS-Corpus)
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 295
‘While attending to such agreeable duties, I watched the sun going
down, and it heralded sunshine for the morrow, promising to grace
our celebrations with the warm glow of its presence.’
(123) nicht von großer aber gewandter Gestalt, versprach sein Gesicht
und sein ganzes Wesen eine anmutige rasche Entschlossenheit
(GOE/AGD.06345, IDS-Corpus)
‘Not big but agile, his face and his whole constitution conveyed a
sense of [lit: promised] a graceful quick decisiveness.’
(124) indem sie saß, versprach ihre Figur mehr Länge
(GOE/AGI.00000, IDS-Corpus)
‘When she sat her figure seemed [lit: promised] to increase in sta-
ture.’
Such structures with nominal accusative complements (and with an option-
al dative complement as in (122)) are very close to structures with infini-
tives, they are sometimes even equivalent. Consider, for instance, the fol-
lowing pair of examples:
(125) a. die auf zahlreiche Nelkenstöcke verwendete Sorgfalt versprach
den mannigfaltigsten Flor (GOE/AGM.07859, IDS-Corpus)
‘The care that had been taken to cultivate numerous carnation
bushes promised to produce the most abudand display.’
b. Und wie manche Laube versprach nicht zunächst mit Geißblatt,
Jasmin, rebenartigen und rankenartigen Gewächsen zu prangen
und zu schatten. (GOE/AGM.07859, IDS-Corpus)
‘And how many a garden-house did not immediately promise to
give a resplendent display of honeysuckle, and jasmine, with vines
and tendrils that would provide shade.’
In each sentence in (125) versprechen conveys the same meaning. It indi-
cates that the subject of the sentence, which cannot be interpreted as (ver-
bally) committing itself to something, in some way senses the (future) situ-
ation expressed either in the form of a nominal accusative complement (a)
or in the form of an infinitive complement (b). This meaning can be also
described in Traugott’s (1997: 188) words, who argued for a similar view
on the development of the English verbs promise and threaten: “there is
something about the subject that leads to an expectation of the proposition
coming into being”. This interpretation of versprechen arises only in spe-
cific – untypical contexts – where the subject is usually non-animate and
296 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
cannot be interpreted as an intentional agent. Note that similar suggestions
were made about the verb drohen described in the previous section.
Importantly, human subjects are also found in structures where an inten-
tional interpretation of the subject is ruled out by further contextually
present information: the subject is not really committing himself/herself to
something. Note that the only infinitive verb occurring in such structures is
werden ‘to become’, cf.:
(126) sie hatte vieles von der Mutter, versprach schon frühe sehr zierlich
und reizend zu werden. (GOE/AGM.00000, IDS-Corpus)
‘She had a lot from her mother and promised to become very deli-
cate and charming.’
In most cases such structures with infinitive complements allow for an
evidential interpretation as we know it from PDG. We consider these struc-
tures the critical context for the triggering of the evidential construction of
versprechen. This is due to the following observations: (i) all of them have
the same meaning, i.e. some person is described as showing a potential to
become something in the future, (ii) the only infinitive verb used in such
structures is werden, and (iii) the source of promise is always the subject,
i.e. the person itself, be it its outward appearance, its known talents, quali-
ties or something else. From today’s point of view, given that we have an
evidential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive in PDG, such structures
may be interpreted as having evidential meaning. Seen in the system of
versprechen uses existing in the 18th
and 19th
centuries, where this devel-
opment has not yet reached this advanced stage, an evidential interpretation
of these structures is rather problematic and should be better seen as a
bridging structure which is ambiguous between two alternative interpreta-
tions. On the one hand, it shares the relevant properties with the existing
variant of versprechen with the meaning ‘to portend’. On the other hand,
the evidential interpretation is possible, because the personal involvement
of the speaker is prominent – it is the speaker who makes the statement on
the basis of either his/her knowledge about the person or the person’s out-
ward appearance.
We suggest that these structures played a relevant role in the grammati-
calization of the evidential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive, as
they triggered the appearance of contexts, where other verbs than werden
come to be used as infinitive complements of versprechen and the subject
could not be interpreted as having control over the verbal process anymore.
Versprechen & zu-infinitive 297
(127) Offenbach am Main zeigte schon damals bedeutende Anfänge einer
Stadt, die sich in der Folge zu bilden versprach.
(GOE/AGD.06345, IDS-Corpus)
‘Even then, Offenbach am Main displayed significant features of
the town into which it promised to develop in the future.’
The distinct property of such contexts is that the subject is not (only) the
source entity that leads to the expectation expressed in the proposition.
Rather, versprechen links the situation described in the proposition to some
other situation, which is now seen as a source pointing towards the de-
scribed situation. Thus a relevant shift in the meaning of the construction
versprechen & zu-infinitive occurs (importantly, this shift concerns only
infinitive constructions, no other structures participate at this develop-
ment), whereby the source entity is re-located from the subject entity to
some other entity. This shift is the same change that we have observed for
drohen (see Section 8.3.6). This can be best illustrated if the following
structures are compared to each other:
(128) Geht die Sonne des Morgens auf und verspricht einen feinen Tag.
(GOE/AGW.00000, IDS-Corpus)
‘The sun of the morning is rising and promises a nice day.’
(129) „Gehen wir aber zur Ruh … um den morgenden Tag, der heiter zu
werden verspricht, von früh auf zu nutzen“. (GOE/AGM.07859,
IDS-Corpus)
‘Let us rest now … to use the following day right from the early
morning, which promises to be clear.’
In (128) it is the sun, i.e. the subject of the sentence, which is the source of
the nice day. In (129), on the other hand, the subject ‘day’ cannot be inter-
preted as a source of itself becoming clear. Instead, something else serves
here as a source: most probably, there are some observable pieces of in-
formation (e.g. clear sky, warm weather in the evening, etc.) which point
towards this particular expectation. Thus we can already speak here of the
initial stage in the development of a new construction type with evidential
semantics, represented by versprechen & zu-infinitive. Taking into account
our analysis of the synchronic status of this construction (see Section 6.4),
we can state that the construction versprechen & zu-infinitive has been
grammaticalized towards an evidential auxiliary and that this process was
crucially influenced by the above described contextual configurations at-
298 Diachronic corpus study of the four constructions
tested first in the 19th
century. This particular (re-)location process of the
source entity from the subject referent to some entity outside the proposi-
tion is the distinct characteristics of the evidential construction type of
versprechen. In our data from the 19th
century we found clear examples of
evidential versprechen that manifest the evidential function of the verb, cf.:
(130) zu schlafen, um alsdann mit frischem Blick die dem Aufgang der
Sonne voreilende Venus, welche eben heute in ihrem vollendeten
Glanze zu erscheinen verspräche, zu schauen und zu begrüßen.
(GOE/AGM.07859, IDS-Corpus)
‘to sleep in order to see and to greet [...] Venus who promised to
come today in her perfect splendor.’
(131) was ausserdem Arnolds Verhältniß zu Mazzini zu befestigen ver-
sprach… (meg/GAN.01007, IDS-Corpus)
‘what additionally promised to strengthen Arnold’s relationship to
Mazzini…’
As has been shown in Section 6.4, versprechen has not reached the same
degree of grammaticalization as drohen, which otherwise displays many
parallel features and is its immediately opposed partner among the eviden-
tial constructions. In particular, versprechen is restricted to specific con-
texts, e.g. it does not occur with animate subjects and action verbs at the
same time, whereas drohen does.
Chapter 9
Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
This chapter summarizes the overall diachronic development of the four
German evidential constructions. It integrates the results of the corpus in-
vestigation with the theoretical considerations discussed in Chapter 5. As a
result, the development of the four constructions of German will be
represented as a unified grammaticalization process which starts from indi-
vidual lexical sources and leads to a consolidation of their (more) gram-
maticalized variants into a relatively tightly organized paradigm of inferen-
tial evidential markers as we observe it in PDG.
The first three sections of this chapter are concerned with the relevant
changes in the semantics of the verbs werden, scheinen, drohen and ver-
sprechen in the course of their developmental processes towards evidential
(semi-)auxiliaries. Semantic shifts, which in the previous chapter were
described at length, will be integrated into the dynamic grammaticalization
concepts introduced in Chapter 5: metaphorization and metonymization
scales (Section 9.1.1), scheme retention (Section 9.1.2), and successive
semantic-functional stages (Section 9.1.3). In Section 9.2 the model of the
successive stages in grammaticalization associated with specific context
types or constructions (see Section 5.3) will be applied to the diachronic
development of the German evidential constructions.
1. Relevant semantic and functional changes
1.1. Metaphorization and metonymization scales
The notion of metaphorization and metonymization was introduced in Sec-
tion 5.1.1. As has been shown in numerous studies dealing with grammati-
calization, a large percentage of meaning changes accompanying gram-
maticalization can be described in terms of successive procedures whereby
meanings evolve from concrete/less abstract to more abstract. In the fol-
lowing we aim at reconstructing such scales of semantic development for
the four German evidential constructions treated here. The empirical proof
for these paths and a detailed description of each individual semantic shift
and of contextual factors having promoted them – which necessarily bear
300 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
specific peculiarities for each individual construction – have been dealt
with extensively in the previous chapter. An abstraction scale represents a
gradual and continuous semantic development whereby there are no indi-
vidual stages with clearly defined boundaries. It is a simplification when
we speak of individual steps in the semantic development of a verb in the
following; the boundaries between individual steps are by necessity fuzzy.
The relevant semantic changes occurred to the construction werden &
infinitive on its way towards an inferential evidential marker may be
sketched in the following manner:
Table 1. Relevant changes in the semantics of werden
concrete process > relation between situations > mental state
(ingressive) (sequential relation) (inf. evidential)
‘designation of the ‘indication of a relation ‘marking of inf.
beginning of an event’ between two events’ evidentiality’
As shown in Table 1, in the course of the grammaticalization process the
meaning of werden becomes more abstract: it gradually changes from de-
noting the initial state of a situation towards marking a very abstract
(grammatical) notion of inferential evidentiality. This shift in meaning
happens in two steps and occurs in specific contexts of use (for further
details see Section 9.2).
First, starting from the aspectual ingressive lexical meaning, in the
MHG and in the early ENHG periods werden acquires the meaning of a
(textually supported) sequential relationship. In a second step, the meaning
of werden becomes still more abstract: in ENHG werden & infinitive de-
velops towards an inferential evidential construction. In this function it
indicates the mere fact that the speaker infers the proposition from some
information available to him/her.
The inferential evidential meaning can always be described as the ex-
pression of a particular mental state of the speaker, as it implies an obliga-
tory link to the speaker, who infers the asserted proposition from some
information pieces. The evidential variant of werden means that (i) the
speaker has access to some information, which (ii) s/he interprets as point-
ing towards the described event. Thus the indication of the speaker’s men-
tal operation of inference serves as the primary meaning of the grammati-
calized (evidential) verb werden.
The relevant semantic changes associated with the grammaticalization
process of the construction scheinen & zu-infinitive may be represented in
terms of an abstraction scale as well:
Relevant semantic and functional changes 301
Table 2. Relevant changes in the semantics of scheinen
concrete process > psychophysical observation > mental state
(visual effect) (observed situation) (inf. evidential)
‘designation of ‘designation of an ‘marking of inf.
a visual effect’ observed situation’ evidentiality’
The developmental path represented in Table 2 indicates the relevant se-
mantic changes that happened to the verb scheinen during its grammatica-
lization towards an inferential evidential marker. Starting from its proto-
typical uses as an intransitive verb with the meaning ‘to produce a visual
effect’, thus referring to a dynamic process, scheinen develops a more ab-
stract meaning and comes to refer to states which are perceived in some
way by an observer. This semantic development occurs in the MHG period
(and is contextually marked by the presence of a facultative dative partici-
pant introducing the perceiving person) and continues during the ENHG
period. In the course of the 18th
century the construction scheinen & zu-
infinitive semanticizes the inferential evidential meaning, which is still
more abstract than the designation of an observed situation. The inferential
evidential meaning of scheinen & zu-infinitive is the expression of a par-
ticular mental state of the speaker (see above for werden).
The semantic development of the verb drohen from denoting a specific
speech act (performed by the subject of the sentence) to referring to a par-
ticular mental state/operation (of the speaker) constitutes a particular reali-
zation of the abstraction scale, too, and may be summarized as follows:
Table 3. Relevant changes in the semantics of drohen
concrete action > psychophysical observation > mental state
(speech act) (observed situation) (inf. evidential)
‘declaration of the ‘designation of an ‘marking of
intention to do observable undesirable inferential
something undesirable’ situation’ evidentiality’
The source of this development is provided by drohen as a speech act verb.
The original semantics of lexical drohen gradually changes into a designa-
tion of an (observed/observable) and negatively evaluated situation which
emanates from some entity. This process starts in the ENHG period and
continues till the 18th
century, where the non-agentive variant of drohen
establishes itself as an independent lexical variant of drohen (see Section
8.3 for details). In the course of the 18th
and 19th
centuries the meaning of
drohen becomes even more abstract: the inferential evidential meaning of
302 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
(the grammaticalized variant of) drohen evolves, i.e. drohen comes to indi-
cate a particular mental state/operation of the speaker.
As described in the previous chapter, the general developmental
processes of drohen and versprechen are parallel to a great extent, and so
are the steps in the semantic change of the two verbs. The abstraction scale
of versprechen on its way towards a grammaticalized evidential verb is
represented in Table 4 below:
Table 4. Relevant changes in the semantics of versprechen
concrete action > psychophysical observation > mental state
(speech act) (observed situation) (inf. evidential)
‘declaration of the ‘designation of an ‘marking of inferential
intention to do observable situation’ evidentiality’
something’
Early in the development the lexical verb versprechen with commissive
speech act semantics gradually changes into a verb which refers to an ob-
served/observable situation, which is usually evaluated positively. This
shift occurs in the 18th
century and is closely linked to the analogical de-
velopment of drohen. In the 19th
century this meaning variant of verspre-
chen is already quite common, and in the course of the 19th
century, the
construction versprechen & zu-infinitive develops towards an inferential
evidential grammatical construction. However, as noted in Section 8.4,
versprechen & zu-infinitive has not reached the same degree of grammati-
calization as drohen & zu-infinitive and, accordingly, the grammaticalized
variant of versprechen shows a lesser degree of semantic abstraction as
compared to drohen. This fact is not explicitly represented in Table 4 as it
focuses on the most basic changes in the semantics of versprechen.
It should be mentioned here that, although the semantic changes of the
four verbs are represented in a unified way, i.e. as two basic shifts in the
meaning of the respective verb, the degree of semantic abstraction of each
verb is not the same. The (diagrammed) correspondence between the stages
in the semantic development processes of the four verbs neither implies a
chronological correspondence between the individual stages (see Section
9.2) nor does it mean that the degree of semantic abstraction (in the inter-
mediate stages as well as at the outcome of the grammaticalization process)
is identical for each verb.
Relevant semantic and functional changes 303
1.2. Scheme retention and reinterpretation
In semantic change accompanying grammaticalization, there is a common
denominator, i.e. an aspect of meaning that remains stable over time and
links different stages of the development to each other. It can be described as
a semantic relational template that is preserved from the source (lexical)
entity through all stages up to the grammaticalized functions, whereby its
fundamental relational aspects get successively transferred to different
semantic domains (see Section 5.1.2). The domains are characterized, on
the one hand, by increasing abstraction, but, on the other hand, they also
provide new semantic features that had not been present before.
In the following the relational templates of the verbs werden, scheinen,
drohen and versprechen and of their grammaticalized variants will be re-
constructed with the help of the basic schema consisting of three positions
– source, path, and goal – introduced in Section 5.1.2. It will be shown that
the basic semantic template of the lexical sources has been preserved not-
withstanding significant reinterpretations and transformations, the most
crucial of which concern the respective reinterpretations of the source posi-
tion in the scheme.
The original lexical semantics of the verb werden is aspectual ingres-
sive. In this meaning werden indicates a situation in its onset. Today, this
ingressive meaning is clearly manifested in the copula verb werden, cf.:
(1) Sie wird krank.
‘She is getting ill.’
This basic semantics may be visualized by postulating the following ab-
stract relational template for werden:
Table 5. Relational template of the lexical verb werden
source > path > goal
subject of the sentence werden (new) situation
The subject of the sentence functions as a source entity which either per-
forms or undergoes the process/the situation introduced by the verb wer-
den. The “new situation”, the beginning of which is indicated by werden,
takes over the position of the goal. Werden itself manifests the turning
point, i.e. the change in the subject entity from some old into some new
304 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
situation (which may be conceived of as a quality, position, status, entity,
etc.).
As for the highly grammaticalized evidential construction werden & in-
finitive, as it is exemplified in (2) below, the same abstract relational
scheme may be used as a base:
Table 6. Relational template of evidential werden
source > path > goal
speaker’s information [werden proposition]
The source, i.e. the entity to which the construction werden & infinitive
bears a close relation and to which the described event (the proposition) is
anchored, is the speaker’s information source. The goal, i.e. the event in-
troduced by werden & infinitive (the proposition) is the result of the speak-
er’s inference process. The third element in this abstract semantic structure
is the relational component which holds between the source and the goal:
this pure relational component can be defined as the inference process
itself, i.e. the mental operation of the speaker.
(2) Sie wird davon gehört haben.
‘She is bound to have heard of it.’
As can be seen from this analysis, the basic semantic template of the lexi-
cal variant of werden has been preserved. The individual positions of the
scheme, however, underwent changes whereby they have been transferred
to other domains, e.g. ‘situation’ > ‘proposition’ and ‘subject of the sen-
tence’ > ‘speaking subject (i.e. the speaker)’. In the following, we will
show that the other verbs show the preservation of the semantic template of
their original lexical verbs as well. While the individual positions have
been transferred and reinterpreted, the basic schema has remained stable.
The lexical verb scheinen is an intransitive verb denoting the emission
of a visual effect (by an entity). It usually requires a subject referring to the
source of the ‘shining’ process; it is always possible to further specify the
verbal process of producing visual effect by adding e.g. modifying ele-
ments, which – under suitable conditions – may be interpreted as adverbial
or predicative elements, thus producing ambiguous utterances like in (3):
(3) Sie scheint hell.
‘She shines brightly’, i.e. ‘the shining is bright.’
Relevant semantic and functional changes 305
OR
‘She seems bright’, i.e. ‘she is bright.’
This potential is mostly exploited in the copula construction of scheinen,
where the combination of scheinen with a predicative expression is obliga-
tory. The prototypical semantics of scheinen may be represented as fol-
lows:
Table 7. Relational template of the lexical verb scheinen
source > path > goal
subject of the sentence scheinen property of the subject entity/or the
whole process
The relational structure of scheinen displays three basic elements: the
source of the verbal process, which is usually an entity producing a visual
effect, the path, and the goal, i.e. the manner in which the verbal process is
realized.
The source position is occupied by the subject of the sentence, the goal
is realized either in the form of a predicative expression (as concerns the
copula scheinen) or in the form of a facultative (mostly adverbial) com-
plement of the main intransitive verb scheinen, see (3). As for the eviden-
tial construction scheinen & zu-infinitive, the same abstract relational
scheme can be used as a basic description of its semantic content. The po-
sitions in the scheme are realized as follows:
Table 8. Relational template of the evidential verb scheinen
source > path > goal
speaker’s information [scheinen proposition]
The basic relational structure has thus remained the same, while the status
of each position has changed in the course of the grammaticalization
process. The verb scheinen serves to mark a specific evidential value, i.e.
the inferential evidential value. The goal position is represented by the
event introduced by scheinen & zu-infinitive (the proposition), which is the
result of the speaker’s inference process:
(4) Sie scheint dich zu mögen.
‘She seems to like you.’
306 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
Drohen as a speech act verb indicates a communicative act which is nor-
mally performed by a human subject.
(5) Sie droht mich zu verlassen.
‘She threatens to leave me.’
Usually drohen requires complements (infinitive complement, direct or
indirect speech clauses as complements, prepositional complement with
mit, rarely accusative object) which further explicate the content of the
threat (for details see Section 6.3). This prototypical semantics of drohen
can be visualized in the following manner:
Table 9. Relational template of the lexical verb drohen
source > path > goal
subject of the sentence drohen content of the threat
This core meaning of drohen is clearly manifested in its every use as a
lexical verb. The source position is always taken over by the subject of the
sentence, the goal is realized in the form of infinitive complement,
(in)direct speech clause complement, prepositional complement or accusa-
tive object.
The evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive displays the same
basic relational scheme as the semantic templates of evidential werden and
scheinen introduced above. The individual positions in the scheme have
been reinterpreted in the course of grammaticalization and are now realized
as follows:
Table 10. Relational template of the evidential verb drohen
source > path > goal
speaker’s information source [drohen proposition]
Thus, for the inferential evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive, the
abstract relational scheme of the lexical verb drohen has been preserved,
together with a change in the concrete linguistic realization and semantic
content of the position.
(6) Sie droht krank zu werden.
‘She threatens to fall ill.’
Relevant semantic and functional changes 307
Versprechen as a lexical verb prototypically indicates a commissive speech
act preformed by a human subject. Usually it requires further complements
(infinitive complements, nominal accusative complements, direct or indi-
rect speech clauses as complements) which explicate the content of the
promise.
(7) Sie verspricht (mir), mein Geheimnis zu bewahren.
‘She promises (me) to keep my secret.’
The following abstract relational template may be taken as a basis of the
meaning of lexical versprechen:
Table 11. Relational template of the lexical verb versprechen
source > path > goal
subject of the sentence versprechen content of the promise
The scheme exhibits three obligatory elements: the source of the promise,
which is a human subject performing the commissive speech act, the path,
i.e. the specification of the speech act, and the goal, i.e. the content of the
speech act. Versprechen itself designates the verbal announcement of some
action or situation. This core meaning of versprechen is clearly manifested
in its every normal use, in PDG as well as in the earlier periods of German
(for details see Sections 6.4. and 8.4).
As regards the relational semantic structure of the evidential inferential
construction versprechen & zu-infinitive, it can be visualized in the follow-
ing fashion:
Table 12. Relational template of the evidential verb versprechen
source > path > goal
speaker’s information source [versprechen proposition]
The abstract semantic template, containing three basic positions, has re-
mained the same as that of the lexical verb. A relevant shift has taken
place: the position of the source, being inherent in the semantics of the
evidential versprechen, is now the speaker’s information source, and it is
now implicit, i.e. it does not require an explicit realization in form of the
subject of the sentence. Evidential versprechen modifies the whole propo-
sition.
308 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
(8) Es verspricht sonnig zu bleiben.
‘It promises to stay sunny.’
Summarizing this section, it can be said that each of the four grammatica-
lized verbs treated here illustrates a clear instance of the preservation of the
basic semantic template of the respective source item (scheme retention).
Moreover, all four verbs show very similar developments concerning the
reinterpretation of the basic positions in the scheme. The most relevant
change in the semantic structure of werden, scheinen, drohen and verspre-
chen consists in the transformation of the source position. Namely, it shifts
from a subject referent, which is responsible for the process introduced by
the respective lexical verb, to the deictic position of the speaker, i.e. his/her
information source. In their function as evidential markers, the grammati-
calized verbs deictically anchor the propositional content in the speaker’s
perspective. The position of the source is permanently occupied by the
speaker’s information source. That means that we can speak here of the
externalization or relocation of the source position and its identification
with the speaker’s (information status) position.
1.3. Successive semantic-functional stages
As we have argued in Section 5.1.3, in addition to the semantic change
accompanying grammaticalization there is a functional change concerning
the semiotic status of the item in question. The development runs from
mainly referential to mainly textual and connective functions, and further
evolves to indexical grammatical functions. To visualize this development,
we have used Traugott’s (1989, 1995) model of semantic change that is
formulated as three tendencies of semantic change. The development, as
we understand it, can be sketched as follows:
(i) (self-contained) referential function >
(ii) text-integrative/connective function >
(iii) indexical-grammatical function
This model has been applied to the development of the German evidential
constructions. The common feature of the four constructions, i.e. their in-
dexical-grammatical function is taken as granted and will not be treated
further (for details see Chapters 2 and 3). The four constructions are in-
dexical, i.e. deictic, signs, as they relate the proposition they modify to a
Relevant semantic and functional changes 309
relevant aspect of the speech situation, namely to the sphere of knowledge
of the speaker. The relatively high degree of grammaticalization of these
constructions proves their (formal) status as grammatical elements.
Werden as a lexical verb with aspectual semantics serves to introduce
events which are bounded in the onset. It has referential function as it re-
fers to processes in the world “out there”. In the MHG period werden &
infinitive comes to be used in specific contextual configurations which
trigger its reinterpretation as a marker of a (textually present) sequential
relation. Here, werden has a clearly text-connective function: it serves to
link two textually neighboring clauses/propositions to each other. Finally,
werden as an evidential marker has indexical-grammatical function. It in-
corporates a strong link to the speaker, i.e. to the deictic sphere of the
speaker. In other words, it relates the proposition to a relevant reference
point, which is the speaker’s information source. This change in the func-
tional status of werden can be illustrated in the following manner:
Table 13. Functional changes in the development of werden
referential > text-connective > indexical-grammatical
aspectual successive relation inferential evidential
between two textually status of the proposition
expressed events
The lexical verb scheinen codes a visual effect. From the late 16th
century
onward this verb in combination with adjectives, adverbs and infinitives
comes to indicate a relation between two situations which are compared to
each other (on the basis of their appearance). In such cases, scheinen very
often occurs in textual configurations in which two different entities or
events are explicitly mentioned in the text. Together with comparative
particles such as als ‘as, than’ and wie ‘as’, scheinen contributes to the
establishment of such textually cohesive structures. From the beginning of
the 18th
century, in construction with infinitives, scheinen develops towards
an inferential evidential, indicating that the described event is inferred
from some information pieces available to the speaker and is thus anchored
in the deictic position of the speaker.
Table 14. Functional changes in the development of scheinen
referential > text-connective > indexical-grammatical
visual effect comparative relation inferential evidential
between two textually status of the proposition
expressed events/entities
310 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
The verbs drohen and versprechen display a very similar functional devel-
opment. For this reason we will treat the changes in functional status of
these verbs in conjunction. The original lexical verbs drohen and verspre-
chen serve to (verbally) announce a situation which is intended by a per-
son. In this meaning they refer to a particular communicative event, which
however may or may not coincide with the speech event. That is, they have
a referential function. From the ENHG period onward, especially in specif-
ic contextual configurations, e.g. in combination with accusative objects or
with infinitive complements, both verbs come to mark a successive rela-
tionship between two situations. The speech act semantics is largely
bleached and only the relational connection between textually represented
situations is promoted, whereby the event introduced by drohen or ver-
sprechen is conceptualized as following others. Finally the textually anc-
hored successive relationship between the described situations gradually
changes into the inferential evidential meaning. Evidential variants of dro-
hen and versprechen now indicate that there is a logical connection be-
tween two events, one of which pertains to the speaker’s deictic sphere and
is conceived of as information source for the other.
Table 15. Functional changes in the development of drohen and versprechen
referential > text-connective > indexical-grammatical
speech act successive relation inferential evidential
between two textually status of the proposition
expressed events
By way of conclusion we can state that, first of all, the four German evi-
dential periphrases arise via grammaticalization processes developing from
main verbs towards auxiliary verbs. Their overall semantic development is
an exemplary case of the successive reinterpretation of an abstract rela-
tional template (see Section 9.1.2). Furthermore, in their grammaticaliza-
tion, they exhibit an intermediate stage at which they are integrated in spe-
cific textual structures, where they serve a particular text-connective or
text-integrative function. In this function, they contribute to the forming of
cohesive textual segments whereby they operate between propositions.
That is, they participate in creating and establishing links across clause
boundaries. As grammaticalization proceeds, they gradually become
grammatical markers, i.e. they acquire indexical-grammatical functional
status. They modify propositions by relating them to a particular deictic
reference point. At the same time, their integration into particular text
Stages, contexts and constructions 311
structures becomes looser till they are no longer identified with specific
contextual configurations.
2. Stages, contexts and constructions
This section summarizes the development of the four German evidential
constructions with respect to the model of the relevant context types intro-
duced in Section 5.3. The model integrates semantic, morphological and
structural aspects into the definition of context types, and emphasizes the
role of paradigmatic relations among constructions at a certain historical
stage in a particular language as well as the influence of paradigmatic op-
positions in the target category of a grammaticalization process. Below, the
model is reproduced from Section 5.3:
Table 16. Context types in grammaticalization
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticalization
untypical
contexts
conversational
implicature
no particular
construction type
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticalization
critical
context
multiple opacity “extragrammatical
idioms”
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating
contexts
polysemous /
heterosemous items
“formal or lexically
open idioms”
Stage IV
paradigmatic
integration
paradigmatic
context
paradigmatic opposi-
tions (choices) with
reduced relational
meanings, i.e.
grammatical
meanings
paradigmatic
choices within an
abstract construc-
tional schema
In applying the model to the diachronic development of the four verbs
treated here, we concentrated primarily on the reconstruction of critical and
isolating contexts. As untypical contexts make use of existing construc-
tions and can be easily interpreted due to their compositional structure,
their role in the grammaticalization processes is less relevant than those of
critical and isolating contexts. Furthermore, describing the structure of
312 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
isolating contexts for each case, only the isolating context for the newly
developed – i.e. grammaticalized – variants of the verbs is stated explicitly.
This does not mean, however, that there are no isolating contexts for the
still pertaining – original – lexical sources which continue to exist. Usual-
ly, isolating contexts for the grammaticalized and for the non/less gram-
maticalized variants show complementary distribution with regard to their
relevant semantic and structural properties. Hence isolating contexts for
non/less grammaticalized variants of the elements in question may be de-
fined negatively with respect to the isolating contexts for the grammatica-
lized variants.
Let us start with the diachronic development of werden. As we have
shown in Section 8.1, there are two relevant context types which consider-
ably triggered the development of the inferential evidential construction
werden & infinitive. First, in the MHG period, werden & infinitive occurs
in specific contextual configurations such as temporal, conditional, causal,
consecutive syntactic structures with correlative conjunctions, adverbs etc.
In these untypical contexts werden receives an additional interpretation, i.e.
it comes to indicate a sequential relationship between two textually expli-
cated situations. Werden marks that there is a close link between the de-
scribed situations, and the specific interpretation of this sequential relation
as conditional, temporal, consecutive etc. depends on contextually present
cues. Second, in the ENHG period, werden & infinitive progressively oc-
curs in another kind of specific contextual configurations, i.e. it is embed-
ded under verbs/expressions of cognition, perception and emotion. This is
the critical context which triggers a further reinterpretation of the construc-
tion, whereby werden & infinitive incorporates a strong link to the speaker,
i.e. to the speaker’s inner world. The meaning of the successive relation-
ship gradually changes into a logical relationship between situations, whe-
reby the first one serves as a premise for the conclusion about the second
one. The co-operation of these two relevant contexts, which follow each
other in time, as we propose, leads to the establishment of the inferential
evidential semantics of the construction werden & infinitive.
The meaning of a sequential relationship is “put” in the contexts with
verbs of cognition, perception and emotion and is so reinterpreted as a
specific sequential relationship, i.e. as a logical relationship between pre-
mises and conclusions. Note that both contexts show the tendency to dis-
appear: whereas werden & infinitive is only rarely found in adverbial
clauses (with the meaning of sequential relationship) in PDG, structures
with embedding cognitive verbs are still common (see Section 6.1.2 for a
detailed description). However, in PDG inferential evidential werden &
Stages, contexts and constructions 313
infinitive is used not only within such syntactic structures but it has broa-
dened its use also beyond those (which is captured in the description of the
isolating context in Table 17).
An important structural property of the critical context in the develop-
ment of werden is that the functional status of werden is highly ambiguous:
it can be interpreted either as a lexical verb (more particularly, as a copula
verb) in a combination with a verbal (i.e. infinitival) or adjectival (i.e. par-
ticipial) predicative complement or as an auxiliary in combination with a
main verb (i.e. its infinitive or present participle). That is, the status of
werden is highly opaque.
Table 17. Context types in the grammaticalization of werden
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticaliza-
tion
untypical
contexts
ingressive
+ conversational
implicature of a
sequential relation
werden in adverbial
clauses
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticaliza-
tion
critical
context
ingressive
OR
sequential relation
OR
inferential evidential
werden & (present)
infinitive/present parti-
ciple in contextual struc-
tures with
embedding expressions
of cognition, perception,
and emotion
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating
context
inferential evidential werden & infinitive
(present and perfect) in
indicative sentences, in
present and past tem-
poral perspective1
The same observation can be made about the critical contexts in the devel-
opment of the other three verbs: being used in the critical contexts, they
equally allow for both – more lexical and more grammaticalized – interpre-
tations. On the one hand, the structure of the infinitive constructions may
be conceived of as a complex structure whereby the verb and the infinitive
complement are seen as forming two different predications. On the other
hand, the same structure may be interpreted as one complex predication,
whereby the verb and its infinitive complement form a structural unity.
This means that the critical context is the locus of reanalysis: it is the con-
text type in which a reanalysis in terms of an analytical grammatical form
(i.e. auxiliary & main verb) takes place or at least is made possible. Most
314 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
importantly, it is the context that triggers the ambiguous interpretation of
the item under consideration, and not the item itself. That is, the grammati-
calizing element does not contain the possible alternative interpretations by
itself, but only in this particular type of contextual configurations.
The fourth stage in the grammaticalization process of the verbs will be
treated in the next section, as it is the paradigmatic relationships between
constructions which are relevant for this stage of the development. Here,
we concentrate on the relevant context types which have played a crucial
role in the grammaticalization processes of the verbs werden, scheinen,
drohen and versprechen respectively.
For the development of the evidential construction scheinen & zu-
infinitive, we have detected a relevant – critical – context type, to which
crucial changes in the semantics of scheinen are directly linked. First, in
the ENHG period, namely in the 16th
century, a new construction type de-
velops: scheinen & zu & sein. Most probably, it happens via analogical
transfer, whereby other copula verbs serve as a model for this extension.
The relevant pre-conditions for this development construction was created
in the untypical contexts, where the original lexical meaning of (the copu-
la) scheinen of emanating a visual effect was still present, however the
comparative structure allowed a conversational implicatures focusing on
the difference between real existence and visual impression.
The possibility to compound the copula with the infinitive of the verb
sein creates the possibility to explicitly compare or confront two situations:
on the one hand, the situation of scheinen, i.e. the situation as it appears to
someone; on the other hand, the situation of sein, i.e. the situation as it
really is. It should be noted, however, that these two situations, albeit con-
ceptualized separately, may well coincide, i.e. the situation may be well the
same way it appears. That is, the description of an event by means of
scheinen does not have to contradict reality. In this way, the conceptual
split in the semantics of scheinen occurs, i.e. the distinction between two
situations: the one expressed by scheinen and the other implied by it. It is
at this stage that the direct evidential meaning of scheinen most probably
develops. The central characteristics of this contextual configuration are (i)
the presence of a 3rd
person subject referent (animate as well as inanimate),
and (ii) the presence of the infinitive of the verb sein.
Second, starting from the 16th
century and further continuing in the 17th
and 18th
centuries, the construction scheinen & zu & sein is again analogi-
cally extended to other types of infinitives. Most relevant in this connec-
tion is the fact that scheinen comes to be combined with perfect and pas-
sive infinitives (like werden does). In such – isolating – contexts, the
Stages, contexts and constructions 315
meaning of simultaneity between two compared situations is weakened in
favor of the new inferential evidential interpretation. That is, the situation
of acquiring knowledge about some facts on the on hand and the described
situation on the other cannot be brought into a direct (simultaneous) rela-
tion any more. Instead, the first one is reinterpreted in terms of pieces of
evidence on which the statement about the described situation is based.
Several contextual factors may be named here which characterize such
contexts: (i) scheinen combines with all (morphological) types of infini-
tives and with infinitives of all verbs, including verbs referring to non-
observable situations, e.g. cognitive verbs; (ii) it combines with 1st
and 2nd
person subject referents; (iii) it is often used in contexts where the pieces
of evidence are textually mentioned.
Table 18. Context types in the grammaticalization of scheinen
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticaliza-
tion
untypical
contexts
visual effect
+ conversational
implicature of a com-
parative relation
scheinen in contexts of
comparison
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticaliza-
tion
critical
context
comparison of an entity
to another one due to its
visual appearance
OR
due to its impression on
an observer (direct evi-
dential)
OR
due to some other pieces
of information (inferen-
tial evidential)
scheinen & zu &
(present) infinitive of
the verb sein with 3rd
person subject refe-
rents
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating
context
inferential evidential scheinen & zu &
present and perfect
infinitives of any verb
with 1st
and 2nd
person
subject referents
The interplay of these contexts in the history of German has led to the es-
tablishment of the inferential evidential function of scheinen & zu-
infinitive. The meaning of a simultaneous relationship between two (com-
parable) situations undergoes further shift towards inferential evidential
semantics, i.e. a logical (inference) relationship between some information
316 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
pieces as premises for a conclusion (proposition). The relevant stages in
the grammaticalization of scheinen are summarized in Table 18.
For the development of the inferential evidential function of drohen &
zu-infinitive, again two relevant contextual configurations played a crucial
role (see Table 19). First, in the ENHG period contextual configurations
evolve, where drohen starts to be frequently used with inanimate subjects.
In such – critical – contexts, the source of a threat is no longer restricted to
human subjects being able to communicate their intentions. Instead, it is
extended to other subject referents. The relevant preconditions for the crit-
ical context to evolve were created in the untypical contexts where inani-
mate subjects came to be combined with drohen via metaphorical transfer,
or personification. Additionally, in critical contexts drohen receives a kind
of temporal-aspectual interpretation, meaning that the situation (the content
of the threat) has not yet occurred at the time of speaking. As far as the
complementation structure is concerned, the verb drohen in this context is
combined either with an accusative object or with an infinitive comple-
ment.
Table 19. Context types in the grammaticalization of drohen
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticaliza-
tion
untypical
contexts
speech act of threat
+ conversational
implicature of undesira-
ble situation emanating
from the subject entity
metaphorical usage of
drohen with inanimate
subjects
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticaliza-
tion
critical
context
undesirable situation
emanating from some
entity
OR
temporal-aspectual
OR
inferential evidential
drohen & zu-
infinitive/drohen &
nominal accusative
complement with
inanimate subject
referents
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating
context
inferential evidential drohen & zu &
(present) infinitive of
verbs denoting a non-
action; animate and
inanimate 3rd
person
subject referents
Second, in the course of the 18th
and 19th
centuries, the construction drohen
& zu-infinitive comes to be used in contexts, where the subject of the sen-
Stages, contexts and constructions 317
tence cannot be interpreted as a cause or an initiator of the situation intro-
duced in the infinitive complement. These – isolating – contexts are
represented either by contextual configurations, where an explicit link to
another situation, from which the situation described with drohen results,
is textually present; or by contextual configurations, where there is an im-
plicit link to the speech situation, in which some facts (pointing towards
the described situation) can be reconstructed.
A further crucial semantic change of drohen occurs at this stage: drohen
loses the ability to bear a close semantic connection to the grammatical
subject of the sentence. Instead, it has the ability to indicate the informa-
tion source for the proposition.
An important observation which holds for every grammaticalization
process including the diachronic development of the four evidential verbs
described in this book is the following. The chronological succession of the
two relevant contexts is such that the second – isolating – type of context
crucially depends on the existence of the first – critical – one. The critical
context necessarily creates the possibility for other contexts (among them
isolating context) for the newly developing grammatical functions to de-
velop.
The isolating context could have not arisen without the prior existence
of the critical context. As concerns the development of drohen, the mean-
ing of an (observable) causal/sequential relationship between the subject
referent and the (infinitive) complement of drohen, which had been already
established in the critical context, was realized in the second – isolating –
contexts and was in this way reinterpreted as a specific sequential relation-
ship, i.e. as a relationship between premises and conclusions.
Note that the critical contexts show the tendency to disappear. The use
of non-agentive drohen with inanimate subjects in combination with accu-
sative complements is largely absent in PDG. Thus we can assume that the
structure with nominal accusative objects served as a kind of catalyst in the
grammaticalization of the evidential construction drohen & zu-infinitive.
As the infinitive construction got used with more and more types of infini-
tive verbs, this construction was completely replaced by the later. The de-
velopment of the evidential construction versprechen & zu-infinitive is in
many ways similar to the development of drohen & zu-infinitive. In the 18th
century, contextual configurations evolve, most probably via metaphorical
and analogical extension, whereby versprechen is combined with inani-
mate subjects (i.e. untypical contexts, see Section 8.4.2).
Due to this, the verb receives a new interpretation: it no longer denotes
a speech act performed by a human speaker, but is able to refer to devel-
318 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
opments occurring without an active participation of any intentional sub-
ject. The untypical contexts create the pre-condition for the critical con-
texts to arise, which are characterized by the presence (i) of a 3rd
person
(usually) inanimate subject that cannot be interpreted as committing itself
to something; and (ii) of a nominal accusative complement or an infinitive
complement describing the expected situation. A crucial semantic change
occurs to the verb at that time: it receives a kind of aspectual-temporal
interpretation, meaning that the situation has not yet occurred, but the first
indications of the ongoing development are already perceivable.
Starting from the 19th
century and continuing until now, the construc-
tion versprechen & zu-infinitive shows the tendency to be used in contex-
tual configurations where the subject of the sentence can no longer be un-
derstood as an entity initializing the development (or the situation)
described in the proposition. Instead, the subject itself is the entity which
undergoes the development introduced in the proposition. In such isolating
contexts, another entity has to be assumed – which are the information
pieces available to the speaker – as a source of the proposition expressed.
The subject does not control the verbal process of versprechen.
Table 20. Context types in the grammaticalization of versprechen
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticaliza-
tion
untypical
contexts
speech act of promise
+ conversational
implicature of a devel-
opment emanating from
the subject entity
metaphorical usage of
versprechen with
inanimate subjects
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticaliza-
tion
critical
context
(desirable) development
emanating from some
entity
OR
temporal-aspectual
OR
inferential evidential
versprechen & zu &
infinitive/versprechen
& nominal accusative
complement with
inanimate subject
referents
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating
context
inferential evidential versprechen & zu &
(present) infinitive of
verbs denoting a non-
action; inanimate 3rd
person subject refe-
rents
Common grammaticalization path 319
Thus, versprechen turns into a marker that modifies the whole proposition,
assigning it an inferential evidential value. It should be noted that only in
the isolating contexts versprechen & zu-infinitive starts to function as a
grammatical auxiliary indicating inferential evidentiality. The relevant
stages of the grammaticalization of versprechen are summarized in Table
20.
As we have proposed in the previous chapter, the grammaticalization
process of the inferential evidential construction versprechen & zu-
infinitive was hampered due to the following facts: (i) the relatively late
establishment of the commissive variant of lexical versprechen as the cen-
tral lexical variant in the paradigm of its construction types; (ii) the estab-
lishment of a specific lexical meaning of the construction versprechen &
sich & accusative object & von/durch-pp.
Therefore, the isolating contexts, in which the inferential evidential
construction versprechen & zu-infinitive manifests itself, are more re-
stricted than those of the construction drohen & zu-infinitive described
above. In this respect the two constructions differ from each other. As we
have repeatedly emphasized, versprechen & zu-infinitive is less grammati-
calized than drohen & zu-infinitive, even though they show the same
(chronological, distributional, semantic, and structural) regularities in their
diachronic developments.
3. Common grammaticalization path
In the remainder of this chapter we will argue that the individual develop-
mental paths of the four German constructions scheinen, drohen, verspre-
chen & zu-infinitive and werden & infinitive may be integrated into a uni-
fied grammaticalization scenario that represents the establishment of a new
grammatical paradigm of inferential evidentiality in German. As suggested
in Chapter 7, the four constructions constitute a paradigm of inferential
evidentials and represent different semantic values within the domain of
inferential evidentiality.
As for the diachronic development of these constructions, we may for-
mulate the following conclusions.
1. In the course of the diachronic development, each verb underwent a
process of semantic abstraction, which can be represented in the form
of metaphorization and metonymization scales (see Section 9.1.1). Ir-
respective of the source lexical semantics of the verbs werden, schei-
320 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
nen, drohen and versprechen, at the final stage the inferential eviden-
tial meaning is found, i.e. the indication of a particular mental
state/operation of the speaker.
2. Each grammaticalized verb has preserved the basic semantic template
of the respective source element. All four constructions have in com-
mon that, on the way towards grammaticalized evidential markers,
each verb undergoes a process of the externalization of the source enti-
ty (see Section 9.1.2). At the final stage of this development, the posi-
tion of the source is identified with the speaker’s information source.
3. In the process of grammaticalization, each verb passes through three
successive semantic-functional changes, whereby its functional status
gradually changes from referential function > textual-connective func-
tion > indexical-grammatical function (see Section 9.1.3). At the final
stage of the development, there are four deictic elements which relate
the propositional content to the sphere of knowledge of the speaker.
4. In the process of grammaticalization, each verb passes through four
successive stages which are associated with specific construc-
tion/context types. At the third stage there occurs a lexical split into
two coexisting items: a lexical sign and a grammatical sign (see Sec-
tion 9.2). In PDG, the grammatical variants of each verb exist indepen-
dently from their lexical sources,which means the verbs are polysem-
ous.
5. The construction werden & infinitive accomplished its development
towards evidential marker already in ENHG. Scheinen & zu-infinitive
developed later and was established as an inferential evidential con-
struction in the 18th century. Drohen and versprechen & zu-infinitive
developed their evidential readings only in the course of the 18th and
19th centuries.
6. Already in the 19th century, drohen shows a higher degree of grammat-
icalization as an inferential evidential than versprechen. In fact, ver-
sprechen is much less grammaticalized in this function in PDG, too
(see Section 6.4).
To summarize our diachronic investigation of the four constructions, we
integrate the individual developmental paths of each verb into a unified
grammaticalization path. In doing so, we propose a schema which shows
the relevant semantics of the source constructions for German inferential
evidential constructions and sketch their common developmental path.
Table 21 demonstrates the four successive diachronic stages in the
grammaticalization of the German evidential verbal periphrases from their
lexical source semantics via the intermediate stage of a construction with
textually relational meaning towards the expression of inferential eviden-
Common grammaticalization path 321
tiality and further towards the establishment of a grammatical paradigm of
inferential evidentiality.
Table 21. Successive stages in the grammaticalization of the German evidential
constructions
source item werden scheinen drohen verspre-
chen
I: original
meaning
ingressive
aspectual
visual effect speech act
critical context werden & inf./
pres. part. in
contextual
structures with
embedding
expressions of
cognition,
perception, and
emotion
scheinen & zu &
inf. of the verb
sein with 3rd
person subject
referents
drohen/versprechen &
zu & inf. and
drohen/versprechen &
nom. acc.
complement with
inanimate subject
referents
II:
constructional
meaning
successive
relation
between two
events
simultaneous
relation
between two
events
successive relation
between two events
isolating con-
text
werden & inf.
(pres./perf.) in
indicative sen-
tences, in
present and
past temporal
perspective
scheinen & zu &
inf. (pres./perf.)
with 1st
and 2nd
person subject
referents
drohen/versprechen &
zu & (pres.) inf. of
verbs denoting a non-
action
3rd
person
subject
referents
inanimate
3rd
person
subject
referents
target mean-
ing of gram-
matical item
inferential evidential meaning
paradigmatic
context
(grammatical) marking of inferential evidentiality
IV:
paradigmatic
oppositions
[+ speaker’s
inference]
[+ based on
experienced
information]
[+ based on presently
accessible informa-
tion]
target item werden &
infinitive
scheinen & zu &
infinitive
drohen &
zu &
infinitive
verspre-
chen & zu
&
infinitive
322 Summary: the diachrony of the four constructions
It should be noted that Table 21 does not claim a simultaneous develop-
ment for all four verbs. It only demonstrates the existence of a common
grammaticalization path with analogous stages for the German evidential
constructions. As represented, we distinguish between two basic source
construction types from which the German inferential evidential markers
have evolved. The first lexical source construction type manifests the suc-
cessive/consecutive relation between two events.
On the one hand, it is represented by the aspectual source semantics of
the verb werden which indicates a strongly related continuum between the
beginning of the event and the event itself. At the second stage of the de-
velopment, i.e. in the constructions with werden & infinitive or present
participle, its lexical semantics is reinterpreted as an indication of the suc-
cessive relation between two (different) situations which are connected to
each other. Finally, at the third stage, where there is only the infinitive
construction left, inferential evidential meaning develops, marking primari-
ly a logical connection between two situations, whereby one of them per-
tains to the sphere of knowledge of the speaker and is regarded as the in-
formation source of the proposition.
On the other hand, drohen and versprechen follow a similar develop-
mental path. First, as speech act verbs, they serve to announce an event
which is intended by the (grammatical) subject and thus introduce a strong
connection between two situations. At the second stage, in constructions
with accusative objects or with infinitives, these verbs come to mark a
successive relationship between two situations. Finally, the relational con-
nection between the described events turns into the inferential evidential
meaning, presenting a logical link between situations one of which pertains
to the sphere of knowledge of the speaker and is seen as the information
source of the proposition.
The second lexical source construction type manifests the simultaneous
relationship between two situations. Scheinen, a verb expressing visual
effect, implies that some entity triggers a particular effect by means of its
appearance. In combination with adjectives, adverbs and infinitives, this
verb comes to indicate a relation between two situations which are com-
pared to each other on the basis of their appearance. At the third stage, in
construction with infinitives, scheinen develops towards an inferential
evidential, indicating that the described event is inferred from some pieces
of evidence.
To put these two developmental paths in one, we can say that the first
source construction type represents a relation between two situations pro-
jected to a syntagmatic axis (succession) whereas the second source con-
Common grammaticalization path 323
struction type manifests a relation mapped onto the paradigmatic axis (si-
multaneity).
Table 22 shows the same semantic development focusing on the build-
ing of a uniform semantic category: starting from different lexical seman-
tics, the four verbs develop to mark inferential evidentiality passing
through the stage of establishing a relational constructional meaning.
Table 22. Chronological path of the semantic development of the German eviden-
tial constructions
beginning (Q) of P
ingressive aspectual evidence Q
ĺ
event P
inferential
evidential
meaning:
„Q points
to P“
event Q ĺ event P
successive relation
announcement (Q) of P
speech act
appearance (Q) of P
visual effect
event Q § event P
simultaneous relation
Chapter 10
Summary and outlook
This book has set out to discover a new grammatical category of German:
the grammatical category of evidentiality as it is expressed in verbal pe-
riphrastic constructions with infinitives – namely werden & infinitive,
scheinen/drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive. Its aim has been to delineate
the make-up of this category together with its diachronic development
since OHG. The study is founded on a combination of theoretical prin-
ciples of grammaticalization theory, construction grammar and theories of
language change. Its data analysis is based on an in-depth diachronic cor-
pus study guided by the methodological principles to continually adjust
empirical and theoretical aspects to each other. The results prove that these
procedural decisions have been the right choice. They have led to a com-
plete picture of the present-day structure and of the diachronic develop-
ment of the category of evidentiality expressed by these four constructions.
Moreover, they have led to further insights into several typological issues
in the domains of evidentiality and epistemic modality.
In the following the major results of this study will be summed up, pro-
ceeding from language-specific to more general issues, presenting the con-
densed results of the investigation into the German system, its implications
for the typological description of evidentials and general theoretical issues.
The chapter will end with some open questions that still need to be ad-
dressed, and with an outlook on some further projects.
The central hypothesis, as it is rendered in Section 1.3, is that the Ger-
man language has been about to develop a system of evidential markers by
the grammaticalization of four constructions with infinitives and the verbs
scheinen, versprechen, drohen and werden. This means, thus, that the
German language has acquired a new grammatical category, i.e., the cate-
gory of evidentiality, which is integrated into the growing system of verbal
periphrastic paradigms in German. This hypothesis has been verified, whe-
reby arguments on all relevant levels of linguistic structure and gramma-
ticalization theory have been taken into account.
In the synchronic, present-day part of our study, the following specific
assumptions on the synchronic evidential system of present-day German
have been confirmed (for a detailed account see Chapter 6 and 7):
Summary and outlook 325
1. The constructions werden & infinitive, and scheinen & zu-
infinitive, drohen & zu-infinitive, and versprechen & zu-infinitive
are evidential markers in PDG.
2. The four evidential constructions are grammaticalized to a relative-
ly high degree.
3. They build a paradigm and represent distinctions within the do-
main of indirect inferential evidentiality.
These assumptions have been underlined with the help of Lehmann’s
(1985) grammaticalization parameters. While the diachronic processes
working on Parameter 1a (‘morphological attrition’) and Parameter 6 (‘fix-
ation’) are not distinctive between less grammaticalized and more gram-
maticalized forms in any of the four items, all other parameters (i.e., Para-
meters 1b: ‘semantic attrition’, 2: ‘condensation’, 3: ‘paradigmaticization’,
4: ‘coalescence’, and 5: ‘obligatorification’) are highly distinctive.
In all four items there is a remarkable difference between less grammat-
icalized and more grammaticalized usages. The latter ones show a loss of
intentional or ingressive semantics of the central verb, they require obliga-
tory complementation by infinitives (auxiliarization), they display close
intraparadigmatic (inferential evidential) distinctions, they allow only co-
herent infinitive constructions, and they have acquired a certain degree of
obligatorification.
Thus, although the four items differ in the degree of grammaticalization
among each other (werden being the most progressed, versprechen the
most retarded), they form a relatively highly grammaticalized system of
evidential markers in PDG.
By measuring the data of PDG against typologically relevant distinc-
tions and undertaking thorough lexeme specific semantic investigations, it
has been possible to produce succinct derivations of semantic-functional
paraphrases of each item, elucidating the internal, i.e. intraparadigmatic
distinctions.
Most importantly, we were able to show that the evidential distinctions
in German cluster in the indirect evidential domain and form a highly dif-
ferentiated system of internal distinctions, which may be formulated as a
system of four hierarchical levels incorporating binary distinctions.
As this is one of the most important findings of this study, the table
summarizing these distinctions is repeated here (see Section 7.2 for a de-
tailed account):
326 Summary and outlook
Table 1: The conceptual structure of the grammatical paradigm of inferential evi-
dentiality in PDG
First level of inferential distinctions:
features:
[+speaker’s inference]
paraphrase:
P, because Q [Origo has information pointing towards P] =
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P]
typological label:
(conceptual) inferential
represented by:
werden & infinitive
Second level of inferential distinctions:
features:
[+speaker’s inference]
[+experienced information as a basis for inference]
paraphrase:
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P] +
P, because Q [Origo can observe some signs/traces of P]
typological label:
perceptual inferential
represented by:
scheinen & zu-infinitive
Third level of inferential distinctions:
features:
[+speaker’s inference]
[+experienced information as a basis for inference]
[+presently accessible information as a basis for inference]
paraphrase:
P, because Q [Origo knows Q, and Origo knows that Q entails P] +
P, because Q [Origo can observe some signs/traces of P] +
P, because Q [Origo has direct access to observed sign/traces of P]
typological label:
perceptual inferential
represented by:
drohen/versprechen & zu-infinitive
Fourth level of inferential distinctions:
as level three plus features:
[non-desired]
drohen & zu-infinitive
[desired]
versprechen & zu-infinitive
It has been shown that the first three levels form genuinely evidential op-
positions, while the fourth level with the features “non-desired” versus
Summary and outlook 327
“desired” incorporates a type of meaning that is not specific to the domain
of evidentiality. Instead, this meaning belongs to a lexically important do-
main which may be roughly labeled “emotive-affective”/“evaluative”. Its
application as a distinctive criterion in the evidential paradigm is triggered
by the reinterpretation of the semantic content of the lexical verbs drohen
and versprechen (see below).
These results, i.e. the preponderance of the indirect branch of evidential
distinctions in the German system, and the integration of “non-evidential”
“emotional-affective” features together with the decline of the distinctive
relevance of aspectual values like “ingressive”, are unexpected and shed
new light on possible structural layouts of the evidential domain in general
as well as on the particularities and language specific tendencies of Ger-
man. The demonstrated importance of the indirect branch as opposed to the
branch of direct evidentiality, which – in many typological studies – is
emphasized greatly, in our view, calls for enhanced attention to the indirect
section in future studies in the field.
Furthermore, if this tendency is not but an idiosyncrasy of the German
language (which can be characterized as a language with a very strong
tendency towards a highly differentiated system of markers of speaker-
based knowledge processing in the evidential and epistemic domains), this
observation may lead the way to a better understanding of the conceptual
relations between evidentiality and epistemic modality, and the develop-
mental paths of linguistic items expressing these values.
Finally, by looking at the four verbal constructions in PDG together, we
were able to motivate the classification of the verb werden as a verb which
is primarily an evidential, but nevertheless has ample ramifications into
other categories. It is the evidential domain where werden displays the
most obvious paradigmatic oppositions, and it is its abstract indirect evi-
dential meaning which is the most natural starting point for reinterpreta-
tions in the direction of other semantic values (e.g. future meaning, epis-
temic modality meaning, habitual meaning etc.).
As far as the diachronic development of the four constructions into evi-
dential markers is concerned, we have been able to show that the dia-
chronic development of the four constructions since OHG can be described
as a process of grammaticalization, and that the grammaticalization paths
of these constructions can be traced back with reference to known paths for
the development of evidential markers.
As the details of the diachronic study are summarized in Chapter 9, it
may suffice here to resume only some general results. While werden &
infinitive – as the oldest infinitive construction in the set – and scheinen &
328 Summary and outlook
zu-infinitive had completed their development into evidential markers as
early as about 1800, the verbs drohen and versprechen were much later in
developing the relevant constructions and evidential meanings, so that im-
portant developmental stages for these verbs can be observed from the 18th
century until today.
Most importantly, our diachronic analysis has shown that, although the
four items stem from very different lexical sources and display very idio-
syncratic individual histories (see, e.g., the complexities of versprechen),
they converge – step by step – into a common grammaticalization path
thereby shedding their particularities and at the same time gaining common
features relevant for grammatical markers of indirect (inferential) eviden-
tial distinctions.
Furthermore, we have found that there are two basic source construc-
tions from which these inferential evidential meanings arise diachronically
in German, one representing a successive relationship between two events
(in the originally ingressive werden as well as in the verbs drohen and ver-
sprechen through their original speech act semantics) and the other coding
a simultaneous relationship between two events (scheinen, which started
out as a verb denoting visual appearance or effect).
It could be shown that the general parameters of these diachronic
processes are the ones identified in many other grammaticalization studies
before under the labels of metaphorization (and/or metonymization),
scheme retention, and the three stages of semantic-functional change start-
ing from (self-contained) referential function to text-integrative/connective
function, and proceeding further to indexical-grammatical function.
A further essential finding is the applicability of the model of succes-
sive contexts and construction types, which had been developed and ap-
plied to other instances of grammaticalization before by the authors of this
book. While earlier versions of the context model assumed three chrono-
logically ordered stages in the diachronic rise of grammatical functions, the
latest version contains four stages each of which is associated with a par-
ticular type of context. These four stages are associated with specific
processes and features and are assumed to describe the general develop-
mental stages of grammaticalization.Table 2 summarizes the central as-
pects of each of the four stages (see Section 5.3 for further details).
As the addition of the fourth and final stage is an important novelty of
the model and is claimed to be generalizable for other instances of gram-
maticalization, it is sensible to repeat some of the major arguments that led
to the revision here. It is the fourth stage which ultimately defines a given
developmental process as grammaticalization: the paradigmatic
Summary and outlook 329
(re)integration or ‘paradigmaticization’ of a new grammaticalized element
is essential for the completion of the full process of grammaticalization.
Furthermore, it is the criterion to distinguish grammaticalization from other
types of language change as paradigmaticity is the very property that dis-
tinguishes grammatical items from lexical ones, which may conjoin into
word fields (i.e. loosely organized, open classes) but not into paradigms.
Table 2. Context types in grammaticalization
Context Meaning/Function Construction types
Stage I
preconditions of
grammaticalization
untypical
contexts
conversational
implicature
no particular
construction type
Stage II
triggering of
grammaticalization
critical
context
multiple opacity “extragrammatical
idioms”
Stage III
reorganization &
differentiation
isolating con-
texts
polysemous / hete-
rosemous items
“formal or lexically
open idioms”
Stage IV
paradigmatic
integration
paradigmatic
context
paradigmatic oppo-
sitions (choices)
with reduced rela-
tional meanings, i.e.
grammatical mean-
ings
paradigmatic choices
within an abstract
constructional sche-
ma
Thus, beyond morpho-syntactic and semantic changes, the most important
factor of grammaticalization is the increase in paradigmaticity. In Stage IV
the new grammatical meaning becomes subject to the meaning of the
whole paradigm and at the same time dependent on the meanings of other
members of the paradigm. To render this fact, we propose that a paradigm
may be described as an abstract constructional schema consisting of the
common semantic basis of a paradigm (e.g. evidential marker) and the ab-
stract structural properties of its participating constructions (e.g. verbal
inflection or periphrasis), thus representing the type of non-reducible asso-
ciation of form and meaning crucial for classifying a given linguistic entity
as a construction. If, like in the case of the German evidential markers, a
new category arises in a language, the members of the growing category
build a paradigm among themselves, whereby the older members are the
blueprint and give the pattern for analogous developments etc. The para-
330 Summary and outlook
digmatic integration of the evidential constructions in present-day German
is given in the following diagram, which is taken from Section 5.3 and
slightly modified:
Table 3. Paradigmatic oppositions of inferential evidentials in PDG
CAT. LABEL:
evidential marker
F. CHAR.:
modifies the main
verb
CAT. MEANING:
information
source for the
proposition
semantic oppositions within the paradigm
(distinctive values of individual members)
formal
realizations
unmarked
(with
respect to)
evidenti-
ality
inferential evidentiality
(= speaker’s inference)
+
experienced
information as
a basis for
inference
+
presently
accessible
information
as a basis for
inference
unmarked form indicative
(zero-
marking)
auxiliary &
infinitive
werden scheinen drohen
versprechen
Thus, the fourth stage of grammaticalization – the paradigmatic integration
– refers to a whole set of constructions, i.e. the constructional network
building the paradigm, on the one hand, and every single construction with-
in it, on the other.
On the whole, the grammaticalization scenario laid out here includes the
perspective of tracing back a change through time, as well as the process of
segmenting a continuum into discernible stages. As has been shown, both
aspects – the dynamic one, i.e. factors steering the process of change itself,
as well as the more static, classificatory and comparative one – must be
taken into account and must be combined in order to model a complete
diachronic grammaticalization scenario in an adequate way. The applica-
Summary and outlook 331
tion of this complex model of grammaticalization to the four evidential
constructions has resulted in a succinct and comprehensive description of
the history of these forms and the evolution of an evidential system in
German. Above all, it has shown the validity and applicability of the model
as such.
As to more general findings on evidentiality, modality and evidential
distinctions, it may be noted that it has been possible to argue for some
partial revisions of the generally accepted assumptions, and to provide
some additions to typological evidential distinctions.
The three major points of general interest are:
1. the indexicality of evidential (and modal) markers,
2. the principle conceptual distinction and factual overlap between
the evidential and epistemic-modal domain, and
3. the special role of quotatives and reportives.
These three aspects may be briefly resumed here. First, the fact that evi-
dentials, like epistemics, are deictic grammatical markers, is a most impor-
tant outcome of this study. The deictic relational character of the evidential
category is the basis of many further theoretical distinctions and elabora-
tions, and the grammaticalization of evidential markers in German can be
described as a change in the semiotic status of the lexical non-deictic
source items to grammatical deictic markers. The relational diagram of
evidential markers illustrating its deictic nature is repeated here (see Sec-
tion 2.2):
primary event secondary event functioning as evidence Origo
Figure 1. Evidentiality as a deictic category
In contrast to other deictic dimensions, the evidential dimension includes a
secondary event (the shaded figure in the middle of the large arrow), which
is logically situated between the Origo and the primary event and functions
as a third point in the vectored relation. Furthermore, there is a “reflexive”
evidential dimension
332 Summary and outlook
relation pointing from the evidence to the Origo and providing the Origo
with the “pair of glasses” to perceive the primary event.
The deictic component can be related to the generally accepted distinc-
tion between direct and indirect evidentiality in the following way. In the
case of direct evidentiality, all relevant points of the relation are treated as
co-present in the same deictic field: the secondary event, functioning as
evidence for the primary event, and the primary event are co-present with
the Origo, i.e. the marker encodes an “origo-inclusive” value. In the indi-
rect branch, the primary event is not co-present with the Origo (and the
secondary event): the marker expresses an “origo-exclusive” value. We
could constitute the following general classification of evidential values,
which takes into account their deictic foundation (see Table 4 below).
The second general issue, the relation between evidentiality and epis-
temic modality, had to be discussed at some length as this issue has been
hotly debated in the literature for quite some time now. We would like to
offer the solution represented in Table 4.
Table 4. Overview of general classification of evidential value
evidential values
Level I
deictic
value
description
direct
‘origo-inclusive’
P is co-present
with Q
indirect
‘origo-exclusive’
P is non co-present with Q
Level II
paraphrase
visual, auditory,
etc.
P and Q
[Origo can
see/hear etc. P]
inferential
P, because Q
[Origo has information pointing
towards P]
mediated
information
P, because Q
[Origo was told
that P]
Level III
paraphrase
perceptual
P, because Q
[Origo can
observe some
signs/traces
of P]
conceptual
P, because Q
[Origo knows
Q, and Origo
knows that Q
entails P]
We argue that both categories are in principle independent of each other,
though closely related. This means that there is a clear conceptual distinc-
tion between evidential markers and epistemic modality markers (i.e. mod-
al verbs) and that their distinctive features can be clearly delineated. On the
other hand, evidentiality overlaps with epistemic modality due to their
common denominator. The potential areas of overlap are particularly de-
Summary and outlook 333
termined by general cognitive principles. The similarities of both domains
are due to a common abstract relational template, which, too, accounts for
their functions as deictic categories. Variations in the “filling” of the posi-
tions of the template account for semantic and functional differences of the
forms and categories in question, whereby the specification of the source
features of a relational structure play a decisive part.
It is only on the basis of a sharp distinction that overlaps and gradation
between the two domains can be properly integrated into a linguistic de-
scription. Thus, we postulate two distinct paradigms for PDG, one modal-
epistemic, one evidential. Both systems are semantically coherent, formally
homogeneous, derived from their own specific grammaticalization paths
respectively, and compatible with typological classifications. The epistem-
ic system is closely integrated into the paradigm of verbal moods, i.e. it
encodes deictic values concerning speaker-based factuality judgments. The
evidential system, on the other hand, encodes speaker-based information
source and is in principle independent of the system of factuality markers.
The third important general issue is the relation between quotatives and
hearsay evidentials (= mediated evidentials). Although this complicated
sub-domain of evidentiality has not been in the focus of this study, it was
necessary to make some basic decisions in order to be precise about the
extent of the evidential (and modal epistemic) distinctions in the grammat-
icalized verbal periphrases of German. In short, we suggest that there is a
super-ordinate distinction between linguistic means expressing any type of
“origo shift” – these are the quotatives in the genuine sense of the term –
and evidential meanings, which do not contain an origo-shift but instead
indicate that the speaker has access to mediated evidence. While the former
ones are NOT evidentials (though quotative expressions may often serve as
diachronic sources for evidentials), the latter are. In German, some uses of
the modals sollen and wollen probably qualify as mediated evidentials, as
is exemplified by sollen in the following sentence, where sollen indicates
that the speaker learned about the described event from someone else.
(1) Was ich über 2003er aus der Bourgogne lese, weckt wenig Erwar-
tung. Es soll aber, und das kann man sich gut vorstellen, ein gutes
Jahr für Beaujolais gewesen sein. (DWDS, Kernkorpus)
‘What I have read about the 2003 Bourgogne vintages raises few
expectations. However, they say that it has been a good year for
Beaujolais, and it is easy to imagine that to be the case.’
334 Summary and outlook
However, as this was not the focus of this book, more research is necessary
to investigate this issue, which – as the reader is sure to have noticed –
touches the question of the connection between evidential constructions
and modal verbs.
Now, as an outlook and topics for further research, we would like to
take up the issue of the further development of the four levels of distinctive
markers in the evidential constructions (see Table 1). As we have shown,
the three levels of distinctive features draw on genuinely evidential seman-
tics, while the fourth level draws on non-evidential meanings, namely from
the domain of emotional and affective distinctions. Both layers can be put
down to the developmental potential of the original source items:
Both distinctions qualify as potentially relevant distinctions in gram-
matical systems. For the third level the typological literature on evidentiali-
ty quoted in this study (e.g. Aikhenvald 2004) gives ample evidence. The
emotive-affective distinction of “desired” vs. “non-desired”, on the other
hand, has received less attention so far as it is not a prominent distinction
in grammatical systems. However, in many languages it does figure as a
relevant distinction in lexical subfields which are close to grammatical
distinctions (see e.g. the Latin “modal” verbs velle ‘want’ – nolle ‘not
want’ – malle ‘rather want’). Furthermore, an evaluative component distin-
guishing between a negative and a positive value is often present in linguis-
tic comparison, i.e. in the expression and differentiation of a number of
speech act types, and those modal meanings that are usually classified as
deontic or volitional. Therefore, although this distinction at first sight
seems to be alien to a grammatical paradigm, there are chances that the
fourth layer may persist in the further development.
As to the evidential distinctions of the third level, they, too, might pers-
ist and be further developed, but there is also the possibility that this level
of distinction will get lost as the paradigm is subject to tighter integration.
There are cases of usage where the distinction between level two and three
blurs, as the distinctive feature of “presently accessible information as a
basis for inference”, which is relevant for separating drohen and verspre-
chen (which show this feature) from scheinen (which does not show this
feature any longer). As soon as this feature gets lost in drohen and verspre-
chen, these two levels will be collapsed and the former level four will gain
weight as its distinction becomes decisive in order to differential between
the three items.
As to the history of the level three feature (“presently accessible infor-
mation as a basis for inference”), it is sensible to assume that this is a ref-
lex of the still persisting residual ingressive component of drohen and ver-
Summary and outlook 335
sprechen, which has often been noted in literature and which is responsible
for the restriction on drohen and versprechen to take a perfect infinitive
complement as in (2):
(2) *Sie drohen/versprechen am Morgen abgereist zu sein.
‘They threaten/promise to have left in the morning.’
It may be assumed that – if and as soon this component gets bleached
(which may or may not happen) – the evidential distinction of level three
will become weak and get lost. However, as these are speculative reflec-
tions on possible further developments of the evidential paradigm, we
leave this issue here and come to a final conclusion.
During the last couple of years interest in research into evidentiality in
language has taken an enormous upsurge. In this situation, we hope that
our book which is the first comprehensive study on evidentiality and its
grammaticalization in German will fulfil its task as a kind of landmark for
future research into this field.
As far as the German language is concerned, we claim to have shown
that it is time to include evidentiality as a grammatical category into the
linguistic descriptions of present-day German in reference grammars and
linguistic text books.
Notes
Notes Chapter 1
1. We would like to thank an anonymous reviewer whose insightful comments
were of great help in making the book as good as we could.
This book is the final outcome of a research project “Evidentialitätsmarker im
Deutschen”, which was funded by the Fritz Thyssen Stiftung between 2006
and 2009 (Az. 10.06.1.081). We would like to express our sincere gratitude to
the Fritz Thyssen Stiftung. Thanks are also due to the Belgian Science
(Interuniversity Attraction Poles programme project GRAMIS P6/44) for par-
tial funding of work on this topic.
2. The description of scheinen as a visual evidential is preliminary here and will
be modified in the course of the book.
3. Anderson (1986: 274): “Evidentials are not themselves the main predication of
the clause, but are rather a specification added to a factual claim about some-
thing else.”
4. The examples are taken from the IDS-corpora and from the ZEIT-sub-corpus
of the DWDS-corpora. Since every example can be traced back easily, we on-
ly indicated the sub-corpora they were taken from: W = “Archiv der geschrie-
benen Korpora”, DSAv = “Deutsches Spracharchiv”.
5. The fact that ‘indexicality’ is a defining feature of grammatical elements was
first mentioned by Jespersen (1921), and Jakobson ([1957] 1971), who
dubbed indexical grammatical signs “shifters”.
6. Bühler [1934] 1990 defines the origo as the source or zero point of the “coor-
dinate system of ‘subjective orientation’, in which all partners in communica-
tion are and remain caught up” ([1934] 1990: 118).
7. See also Leiss 1992 and Diewald 1997.
8. For the distinction between characterisation and deictic pointing see Bühler
[1934] 1990.
9. An example of the temporal function of the unmarked category “present” is:
(Wo kann ich sie jetzt antreffen?) – Sie ist in der Bibliothek.
‘Where can I find her, right now? – She is in the library.’
10. Engel (1996: 868) has an entry for the lemma eventuell as an example of what
he calls “verifikative Angabe”, which belongs to modality; the function of
these adjuncts is described as “[sie] modifizieren den Realitätsgrad eines
Sachverhalts”; among the items grouped together here are also adverbs with
evidential meaning like angeblich, anscheinend, offenbar, offensichtlich (En-
gel 1996: 230).
11. By drohen2 and versprechen2 Reis refers to what we call the more grammati-
calized usages of these verbs.
Notes 337
12. Cf. also De Haan (1999: 210-219) for a discussion on this issue.
13. The Leipzig Glossing rules are available under the following address:
http://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/resources/glossing-rules.php (10.01.2009)
14. The corpus and further information about it are available under the following
address: http://titus.fkidg1.uni-frankfurt.de (22.09.2008)
15. Please consult the following page for more information: http://www.hs-
augsburg.de/~harsch/augustana.html (29.01.2009)
16. Detailed information about the corpus is given at: http://mhdbdb.sbg.ac.at
(15.11.2008)
17. For technical details and principles of the architecture and procedures of KALI
see Lehmberg, Diewald, and Smirnova 2007.
18. For further information concerning the texts, e.g., year, edition, page in the
edited version, etc., please consult the corpus webpage. The corpus is availa-
ble online under the following addresses: http://www.kali.uni-hannover.de/
and http://www.gabrielediewald.de/index.php/kali-korpus (15.03.2009)
19. http://www.mhdwb-online.de (14.02.2009)
20. http://virt052.zim.uni-duisburg-essen.de/Fnhd/ (25.11.2008)
21. http://www.hs-augsburg.de/~harsch/augustana.html (21.11.2008)
22. http://www.staff.uni-marburg.de/~Egloning/etexte.htm (13.10.2008)
23. The project is an initiative of the online version of the German illustrated mag-
azine Spiegel-Online. Since 1994, numerous German books from different pe-
riods of time have been made accessible via the World Wide Web. Mean-
while, the project has become the largest collection of classical texts in the
German language. The online library with more than 4,000 books is available
at: http://gutenberg.spiegel.de/ (09.01.2009)
24. More information is available at: www.ids-mannheim.de (19.07.2008)
25. It should be mentioned here that the corpora from the 18th and 19th centuries
contain predominantly narrative texts. This means that this text type clearly
dominates over the others. Nevertheless, we analyzed the data available, since,
to our knowledge, there are no other corpora covering data of other text types
from these periods of German.
26. The corpus is available at http://www.dwds.de (04.02.2008)
Notes Chapter 2
1. For a good account of terminological problems in the evidential domain see
Jacobson 1986.
2. See also the following quote by Anderson, who – as early as in 1986 – made
the importance of the distinction perfectly clear: “It is important to distinguish
true evidential categories from other forms which seem evidential, but are not.
The noun form of the term “evidentials” or “an evidential” does not simply in-
338 Notes
clude anything one might consider to have an evidential function, that is, to
express evidence for something else. Rather, evidentials are a special gram-
matical phenomenon” (Anderson 1986: 274). Cf. also Giacalone Ramat and
Topadze (2007: 7-8), who, referring to Aikhenvald 2004, also emphasize this
distinction.
3. A word of caution here concerning the term “periphrasis”: verbal periphrases,
or periphrastic verbal forms are morphologically complex expressions of
grammatical categories in verbs, e.g. the German perfect etc. Another expres-
sion for this is analytic verb forms. This is not to be confused with what we
call “evidential periphrasis”, the latter term applying to any type of non-
grammaticalized, non-stereotypical construction having evidential meaning.
4. The term “source” in diachronic contexts is used to refer to the lexical prede-
cessors of grammaticalizing items; it is not to be confused with “source” as a
relational concept used in the description of the semantic template of eviden-
tials and modals (see below).
5. The English equivalents seem to have the same type of ambiguity (cf. Whitt
2008). For evidential and ambiguous uses of aussehen cf. Whitt (2008: 114),
for klingen and sich anhören also cf. Whitt (2008: 158): “Klingen is German’s
key carrier of evidential meaning among object-oriented verbs of auditory per-
ception, in contrast to the much lesser used (sich) anhören.”
6. Aikhenvald (2004: 10): “These expressions are not obligatory and do not con-
stitute a grammatical category; consequently, they are only tangential to the
present discussion. Saying that English has ‘evidentiality’ (cf. Fox 2001) is
misleading: this implies a confusion between what is grammaticalized and
what is lexical in a language. Lexical expressions may, of course, provide his-
torical sources for evidential systems (see Chapter 9). Lexical ways of indicat-
ing source of information may reinforce grammatical evidentials”.
7. Aikhenvald (2004: 6): “Linguistic evidentiality is a grammatical system (and
often one morphological paradigm). In languages with grammatical evidential-
ity, marking how one knows something is a must. Leaving this out results in a
grammatically awkward ‘incomplete’ sentence […].Those who cannot get
their evidential right are in trouble: they are considered linguistically incompe-
tent and generally not worth talking to. Only in some systems can an evidential
be omitted if recoverable from the context. This is very much unlike languages
where saying explicitly how you know things is a matter of choice for the
speaker”.
8. In other places, Aikhenvald clearly sees the difference, cf. the following quote:
“Saying that English parentheticals are ‘evidentials’ is akin to saying that time
words like ‘yesterday’ or ‘today’ are tense markers” (Aikhenvald 2004: 10).
9. For further descriptions of the structure of an evidential setting in terms of the
relevant deictic relations (i.e. the relational structure in a deictic process) see
also Chapter 3.
Notes 339
10. If necessary it is possible to draw a further distinction between “speech
sounds” and sounds in general (“acoustic”).
11. We should bear in mind that the origo and his/her information source may be
disconnected from each other (and thus not co-present) by means of e.g. tense
markers. So, if the statement is made about an event in the past, the speaker
normally expresses the fact that s/he has directly witnessed the situation.
Though s/he is now detached from the event – as well as from his/her own
perceptual input of it –, this fact is indicated not by using an(other) evidential
form, but is achieved only by using particular tense markers. In such cases, it
becomes clear that the information source is still conceived of as co-present
with the described event. That means that the coincidence of the speaker’s in-
formation source (e.g. speaker’s perception of an event) and the perceived
event itself is most relevant for attributing a particular evidential value to a
proposition.
12. See also Giacalone Ramat and Topadze (2007: 38).
13. There are evidential systems that do not display any further specifications
within the subgroup of indirect evidentiality. That means that inference (rea-
soning, assumption, etc.) and mediated information are expressed by one and
the same form (cf. the two term systems A1 described in Aikhenvald 2003,
2004). This fact provides further evidence for treating the distinction direct vs.
indirect evidence as a basic opposition within the domain of evidentiality.
14. Cf. research into intertextuality in cultural studies, role play in psychological
programs, legal issues around plagiarism and copyright etc.
Notes Chapter 3
1. As explicated in Diewald 1999, the internal distinctive values of this grammat-
ical category can be described with reference to Bühler’s concept of deixis.
Bühler points out that the relational structure of the deictic process can be ap-
plied to different deictic fields, i.e., the origo can be abstracted from the pre-
sent speaker and transferred to some other point. These modifications create
different “modes of deixis”, i.e. deixis in the actual deictic field of the utter-
ance (“demonstratio ad oculos”, Bühler [1934] 1990: 94), “imagination-
oriented deixis”, and thirdly “the anaphoric use of deictic words”. In Diewald
1999, 2001 it has been shown that theses modes of deixis play a central role in
the internal structure of the grammatical category of mood, whereby the indica-
tive and the modals können and müssen represent deixis proper, the sub-
junctive I and the modals sollen and wollen “imagination-oriented deixis”,
whereby the two modals qualify as “quotatives”, and the subjunctive II and the
modals mag and dürfte the anaphoric mode, as they make use of an additional
phoric relation. Thus, the application of the concept of modes of deixis reveals
340 Notes
the high degree of functional specialization in the category of mood, and
makes it possible to describe the distinctive value of each modal verb as it has
become integrated into this paradigm as a factuality marker. As these distinc-
tions do not affect the classification of evidentials, they will not be discussed
further here.
2. It should pass without notice that the parenthesis in (5) is of course not an
evidential (not a grammatical marker) but an evidential expression.
3. The German modals show two distinct uses: a typically narrow scope reading
in which the modals are used as lexical verbs to predicate a complex state on
the subject (1) and a wide scope reading comprising the objective epistemic
and the so-called “subjective epistemic” use (2) (cf. Lyons 1977, Traugott
1989, Diewald 1993, 1997); only the latter one is of importance here.
4. As the adverbials used in the paraphrases are not grammatical but lexical
means, it should be noted that they are not equivalent to the grammaticalized
modals or the verbal moods as far as their semiotic status is concerned (cf.
Diewald 1991, 1999).
5. Diewald 1999 shows in detail how the epistemic modal source is derived from
the non-epistemic modal source, and how the resultative notion is preserved
and reinterpreted as a speaker-based “judgment”.
6. In the full-verb use with a nominal complement (e.g. Er kann Englisch ‘He can
speak English’), the modal is a stative verb with a primary experiencer subject
because there is only one relational structure. As soon as there is an infinitive
complement, there are two verbal relations and thus a complex and condensed
relational structure with a secondary experiencer occupying the subject posi-
tion (e.g. Er kann/muss/darf/... Englisch verwenden ‘He can/must/may/...use
English’). The meaning of the modals in this use retains aspectual and passive-
like components that reflect their origin in preterito-presents. This meaning is:
the state of having been given a directive. The experiencer role can be fully
analyzed as follows: the goal feature derives from the fact that the subject is
seen as the recipient of an issued directive; the source feature derives from the
intended action, which the subject is meant to carry out and which is
represented in the infinitive construction. All relational positions of the under-
lying directive speech act are semantically present and recoverable from the
modal meaning, but the two relations (the issuing of the directive and the car-
rying out of the directed activity) have been condensed into a complex modal
structure that is held together in the experiencer subject.
7. See also Plungian (2001: 354): “[...] not all evidential markers are modal in
that they do not all necessarily imply an epistemic judgment.”
8. An instance of this type of implicatures may be the case of Italian, where, ac-
cording to Giacalone Ramat and Topadze 2007, epistemic modals are used as
(inferential) evidentials.
Notes 341
Notes Chapter 4
1. See also Kuryłowicz (1965: 52), Traugott and König (1991: 189), Croft (2000:
156), Heine (2003: 584).
2. See also Bybee 1985, Haspelmath 1999, Heine (2003: 579ff.), Himmelmann
(2004: 31).
3. See also: “A sign is grammaticalized to the extent that it is devoid of concrete
lexical meaning and takes part in obligatory grammatical rules.” (Lehmann
1995 [1982]: viii)
4. This is the essence of many definitions of grammar, see for example Jakobson
(1959: 489), Mel’þuk (1976: 84), Hagège (1987: 250), Radtke (1998: 10).
5. See also Radtke (1998: 10), who with reference to the verbal categories of
German states: „Zwar hat der Sprecher keinerlei Freiheit bezüglich der Frage,
ob eine Verbalkategorie gewählt werden soll oder nicht. Er muß sich hier für
jeweils eine Verbalkategorie entscheiden, und zwar für genau eine. Bezüglich
der Frage, welche Verbalkategorie er dabei realisieren möchte, besteht jedoch
Wahlfreiheit.“ [The speaker may not have any freedom of choice concerning
the question whether a verbal category has to be chosen or not. But in each
case, he must choose a verbal category, and what is more, he must choose one
and only one. Concerning the question, which verbal category he wants to
realize, however, there is freedom of choice.] In the approach taken here the
notion of communicative obligatoriness is not restricted to verbal categories
but is used to cover any grammatical category displaying the combination of
obligatory realization and freedom of choice between several paradigmatic op-
tions according to intention.
6. There has been a lively discussion of the question of the degree of grammatica-
lization of the dative-passive in the past decades, which however cannot be
taken up here (for an overview cf. e.g. Diewald 1997, Leirbukt 1997, Askedal
2005).
7. The fact that passives are not possible with all verbs is disregarded here. Re-
strictions of this type are not sufficient for deciding about the status as a
grammatical category, as the applicability to all relevant category members
(host class extension in the diction of Himmelmann (2005: 89)), too, is a mat-
ter of degree. It affects many grammatical categories (there are, for example,
nouns without plurals, inclinable pronouns etc.). This is quite clearly stated in
Himmelmann (2005: 89): “Host classes of individual grams differ significantly
in size. Plural markers may be restricted to nouns denoting animate beings,
passive markers to transitive verbs, applicatives to motion and transfer verbs,
etc. Only certain types of grams are associated with a host class which is co-
extensive with a major lexical category. Well-known examples are tense-
aspect-mood auxiliaries, (clitic) articles, (some) simple adpositions (or clitic
case markers) and negators. These gram types can be used to define highly
342 Notes
general syntactic slots where practically all the members of a given major lexi-
cal category may occur.”
8. It should be noted that this kind of rule can be set up for individual category
members (as illustrated for the werden-passive) as well as for groups of
marked values of a paradigm (as illustrated for the evidential constructions).
The latter option is chosen here, because the exact distinctive values of each of
the four evidential constructions have yet to be explored in later chapters.
9. For the classification of the construction with würde see e.g. Zifonun et al.
1997, Eisenberg 1999, 2004, Fabricius-Hansen 1998, 2000, Thieroff 1992,
Smirnova 2006.
10. The attribute “structural” was added to the label in Lehmann (2002: 110), as
the notion of “scope”, which in the first papers stood alone, allowed misinter-
pretations in the sense of “semantic scope”, (like in negation or adverbials)
which is not what is meant here (e.g. Traugott 1997 criticized this parameter
on the basis of this misinterpretation). In order to avoid misunderstandings, we
prefer the term “syntagmatic weight” to the term “scope” here.
11. The first two parameters can be equated to what Hopper (1991: 22) calls “de-
categorialisation”, which is described as a loss of the “morphological markers
and syntactic privileges characteristic of the full categories Noun and Verb”.
In this process verbs lose their capability to denote events, i.e. their “predica-
tivity” (Hopper 1991: 30f., Lehmann 1985: 309), or “referentiality” (Dasher
1995). There is a number of different sets of parameters that have been pro-
posed in grammaticalization theory so far beyond Lehmann's (see e.g. Heine,
Claudi and Hünnemeyer 1991; Hopper and Traugott 1993, Bybee, Perkins and
Pagliuca 1994); a brief overview of parameters existing within the grammati-
calization theory is given in Askedal 2005). They differ with regard to their
degree of specificity, i.e. whether they concern changes of a particular item or
changes in the whole paradigms and systems, with regard to the favored – se-
mantic or formal – factors, etc. Moreover, they differ from each other as some
approaches consider particular parameters to be definitional while declaring
others as deriving from the basic ones: for instance, the parameter of obligato-
riness, or obligatorification, is seen by Lehmann [1982] 1995 as one of the de-
finitional criteria of the process of grammaticalization, whereas in Heine and
Kuteva 2002 the same parameter is considered to be “only” a by-product of
another – as they claim more important – property of grammaticalization
process, namely decategorialization.
12. For less developed, incipient instances the parameters are usefully comple-
mented by the criteria set up by Hopper (1991: 22ff.), which he calls “the five
principles of grammaticization”; these are: layering, divergence, specializa-
tion, persistence, de-categorialization.
13. As has been already convincingly demonstrated by Askedal (1997), Heine and
Miyashita (2004: 20-27) and Diewald (2004: 250-253), versprechen within in-
finitive constructions – similarly to drohen – can be seen as a canonical case
Notes 343
of grammaticalization (and auxiliarization). In this section, we combine the re-
sults of those former studies with our own corpus data, which will be dealt
with later.
Notes Chapter 5
1. Cf. Heine, Claudi and Hünnemeyer (1991: 48), Matlock 1989, for category spe-
cific regularities concerning the preferred source domains for grammaticalization
in the area of modality and evidentiality also see van der Auwera and Plungian
1998, Anderson 1986, Willett 1988.
2. For a discussion of the notions of indexicality and subjectivity see Diewald
(1999b: 14-16).
3. Coates herself uses the term “ambiguity” instead of “polysemy” as opposed to
conversational implicature. As already explained, we do not follow this prac-
tice.
4. Bybee, Perkins and Pagliuca (1994: 11), for example, state that “… it is the entire
construction, and not simply the lexical meaning of the stem, which is the precur-
sor, and hence the source, of the grammatical meaning.” In a similar vein, Bisang
(1998: 20) concludes that “constructions provide the framework within which
combinations of syntactic units and semantic components can be analysed in a
new way which may lead to language change if it is propagated from a linguistic
individual to a language community.” Finally, under the heading “Constructions
in Grammaticalization”, Traugott 2003 explicitly takes up this problem and sug-
gests the following definition of grammaticalization which includes the notion of
“construction”. Grammaticalization is seen as “the process whereby lexical mate-
rial in highly constrained pragmatic and morphosyntactic contexts is assigned
grammatical function, and, once grammatical, is assigned increasingly grammati-
cal, operator-like function” (Traugott 2003: 645).
5. Cf. Goldberg 1995, 2006, Diewald 2006, Bergs and Diewald 2008,
Stefanowitsch and Fischer 2008. As argued for in Diewald 2006, there are at
least four areas in which the assumptions of construction grammar converge
with basic concepts of studies in language change in general and grammaticali-
zation in particular. These are 1. the definition of the basic unit, 2. the range of
phenomena covered, 3. the flexibility and openness of the formalism, 4. the
dynamic potential of the concept.
6. Of course, contexts like this one have persisted through all the history of Ger-
man and still can be found in PDG.
7. Examples proving that the critical context is attested with each of the six mod-
als can be found in Diewald (1999: 361-431); cf. also Deeg 1948.
344 Notes
8. Iconicity is understood here in the broad sense of the term as a semiotic
mechanism representing the parallelism between different layers of structure
(see e.g. Croft 2001: 108).
9. In terms of the grammaticalization parameters developed by Lehmann 1985,
this is an instance of the loss of “morphological integrity”, i.e. the loss of in-
flectional distinctions pertaining to the main word class the item originally be-
longed to.
Notes Chapter 6
1. At this point, we provisionally note that the construction is polysemous. In the
following, this view will be revised.
2. The exact description of the aspectual semantics of werden has been a matter
of intense debate in recent years. So, for example, Leiss (1992: 167-170) at-
tributes two distinct semantics to werden: the additive and the nonadditive one.
Fritz (2000: 37) distinguishes between the “slow” and the “punctual” werden.
Amrhein (1996: 121) considers werden as a prototypical mutative verb which
is indifferent in regard to the punctuality component. In a similar vein, Kotin
(2003: 31) classifies it as a mutative verb: “Die Bedeutung der
Zustandsänderung ist stets aktional markiert und kann als mutativ eingeordnet
werden, wobei das Verb ‚werden‘ den Endpunkt einer Phase bezeichnet“ [‚The
meaning of change of state is always aspectually marked and can be classified
as mutative, whereby the verb ‘werden’ expresses the endpoint of a phase’].
Assuming the mutative component to be the core aspectual semantics of wer-
den, Kotin 2003 explains its two different readings – the static one meaning
‘to happen, to occur’ and the dynamic one meaning ‘to emerge, to come into
being’ – as two possible interpretations of this core meaning. Smirnova (2006:
114-120) adopts Kotin’s view because the label mutative covers best the as-
pectual semantics of werden and allows us to explain its integration into the
different grammatical domains of the German verbal system through gram-
maticalization. As the question of the exact aspectual identification of werden
is not our central concern here, we will use the most established term “ingres-
sive” for the aspectual characterization of werden.
3. It has been pointed out by Heine and Miyashita (2004: 22) that grammatical
versprechen is also found in contexts with animate subjects which cannot be
thought of as referents controlling or intending the action introduced by the in-
finitival complement, cf. Er versprach bald aus der Ohnmacht zu erwachen –
‘He promised to wake up soon after fainting’. Though we accept that such
combinations are potentially possible (and acceptable) and that they would
strengthen the claim about the high degree of grammaticalization of verspre-
chen, we did not however find any such occurrences in our corpus data. In this
Notes 345
connection, we can still draw the generalization that combinations of gram-
matical versprechen and animate subject are not possible in PDG (though not
fully inacceptable).
Notes Chapter 7
1. Werden & infinitive started its grammaticalization process as an ingressive
construction in MHG. The construction was analogically formed after the
model of the (bi-)ginnan/ (bi-)stan(tan) & infinitive constructions, and, in the
course of MHG and ENHG, competed with infinitive constructions with modal
verbs (wellen ‘will’, suln ‘shall’ and muozan ‘must’) as a candidate for a future
tense marker.
2. It should be said here that werden & infinitive – being the unmarked member
of the paradigm of inferential evidentiality – can also be interpreted as marking
the conceptual inferential status of the proposition exclusively, i.e. it can be
contrasted with the perceptual inferential value (which all other members of
the paradigm share). In this case, werden & infinitive realizes the second
meaning of an unmarked term whereby the absence of a feature (which is the
perceptual value) is explicitly marked. This is to say that we regard the opposi-
tion conceptual vs. perceptual within the domain of inferential evidentiality as
a binary opposition where the conceptual value is the unmarked one and is thus
tantamount to the (neutral) inferential evidential value (see also Note 3).
3. For this cf. Jakobson (1939 [1974]: 48) where he shows that zero-elements do
have a double function in grammatical systems: they can be first “wo A and
Nicht-A nicht unterschieden werden” [‘where A and non-A are not distin-
guished’] that is where the category in question is neutralized, not relevant, not
expressed; and secondly, “wo Nicht-A bezeichnet werden soll” [‘where non-A
should be expressed’], i.e. the unmarked value inside the paradigm as opposed
to the marked values of it.
4. Here, it can be noted that the classification of the world’s evidential systems
which have been presented in Aikhenvald 2003, 2004 does not imply that there
are clear-cut boundaries between systems; the proposed system types do not
necessarily cover all existing evidential systems. Moreover Aikhenvald herself
admits that “evidentiality systems may vary as to the relative markedness of
terms” (2003: 7), and that “languages can have more that one evidentiality sys-
tem, or more that one paradigmatic set of forms with evidentiality meaning”
(2003: 8). Furthermore, languages may combine grammatical marker of evi-
dentiality with so-called “evidentiality strategies”.
5. Moreover, this characteristic is not restricted to inferred evidentials but applies
to all evidential distinctions; cf. Aikhenvald, who states that “most frequently,
evidentiality distinctions are found in past tenses” (2003: 15).
346 Notes
Notes Chapter 8
1. It should be noted that, in PDG, the use of werden as an intransitive verb has
become quite rare (see Section 6.1 for further details).
2. Several instances of the construction werden & infinitive have been attested in
the texts by Notker. They will be taken up in the next section.
3. The meaning of the IE stem *wert(h)-, which is usually translated as ‘to turn,
to rotate’, allows for both – ingressive and durative – interpretations. In the
course of the history of German werden has favored the meaning ‘to come into
being, to rise’, i.e. the ingressive interpretation of the etymon. This develop-
ment can be detected in OHG, where a gradual decrease of the amount of dura-
tive uses of werden is attested.
4. This may be based on observations like the following: the future temporal
meaning of werden & infinitive did not develop before the inferential one, but
in parallel with it (see Section 8.1.5); the future temporal meaning of werden &
infinitive has not developed further since the ENHG period (e.g. with regard to
its frequency, its distribution, its meaning components, etc.).
5. It should be noted that, in PDG the situation is fairly similar: as we have men-
tioned in Section 6.2, scheinen & zu-infinitive has readings which are not
clearly evidential. These readings can be traced back to the less grammatica-
lized source construction, i.e. to the copula construction of scheinen, which
permitted various readings, among them the expression of “delusive appear-
ance”, i.e. the mere appearance of something as opposed to its real being.
6. The possible impact of this factor is conceded by the authors themselves, as the
following quote shows: “We have discussed the item drohen as an isolated
phenomenon of German grammar; as a matter of fact, however, it is not: what
we observed about drohen applies in much the same way to a range of other
German items, most notably to versprechen ‘to promise’, and in a number of
studies, drohen and versprechen are treated as exhibiting essentially the same
structure and/ or development” (Heine and Miyashita 2008: 98).
7. Heine and Miyashita (2008: 81) note the lack of certain complement types,
such as infinitive complement, finite complement clause and direct speech
proposition, which are characteristic for C2.
8. Heine and Miyashita (2008: 81) point out that first instances of this innovation
emerged in the course of the 16th
century.
9. Heine and Miyashita (2008: 81) notice another important innovation: “The
construction acquires the ability to take a source complement introduced by
von, which can be interpreted either as an agent or as a locative source. This
innovation appears to have taken place long after C2 had established itself, as
its first attestations in the second half of the 18th
century suggest.”
10. As Plank 1985 argued, it is natural for marked constructions to be structured in
analogy to unmarked ones to the highest possible degree. In our case this ar-
gument applies as follows: since agentive and non-agentive drohen-
Notes 347
constructions are formed with the same lexical verb, and the non-agentive con-
struction type represents a marked construction, it is not surprising that it forms
its infinitive according to the model of the agentive variant.
11. The subject may sometimes be a human referent, though. However it cannot
be interpreted as having verbally communicated a promise: the component of
speaking is totally absent here.
Notes Chapter 9
1. It should be noted here that it is very difficult to formulate the exact structural
properties of the isolating context for werden. This is due to the fact that, pre-
sently, werden is very highly grammaticalized as an auxiliary and potentially
serves as an evidential marker in every context. Therefore, in contrast to other
three verbs treated here, whose developmental peculiarities are still (at least
partly) observable in their present uses, werden does not show a clear comple-
mentary distribution as compared to its less grammaticalized variants. An addi-
tional reason for this situation may be found in the special status werden has in
the German language. As is well known, werden has served as a source for
several grammatical markers in German: apart from its evidential variant, it has
been grammaticalized as a passive auxiliary (werden & perfect participle) and
as a preterit subjunctive auxiliary (würde & infinitive). This special diachronic
behavior of werden makes the task of formulating the exact nature of particular
– isolating – contexts, which clearly favor a grammatical reading of the verb, if
not impossible, though very difficult.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2003 Evidentiality in typological perspective. In Studies in Evdentiality.
Alexandra Y. Aikhenvald and Robert M. W. Dixon (eds.), 1-31.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2006 Evidentiality in grammar. In Encyclopedia of Language and Linguis-
tics, 2nd
ed. Keith Brown (ed.) Vol. 4 (article 0252), 320-325. Ox-
ford: Elsevier.
Aikhenvald, Aleksandra Y. and Robert M. W. Dixon (eds.)
2003 Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Amrhein, Jürgen
1996 Die Semantik von werden. Grammatische Polysemie und die Verbal-
kategorien Diathese, Aspekt und Modus. Trier: Wissenschaftlicher
Verlag Trier.
Anderson, Lloyd B.
1986 Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: typologically regular
asymmetries. In Evidentiality. Wallace L. Chafe and Johanna
Nichols (eds.), 273-312. Norwood/New Jersey: Ablex.
Askedal, John O.
1982 Zur semantischen Analyse deutscher Auxiliarkonstruktionen unter
dem Aspekt der Unterscheidung von summativer und nicht-
summativer Bedeutung. Deutsch als Fremdsprache 19: 159-167.
1989 Über den Infinitiv ohne bzw. mit zu im heutigen Deutsch: Klassen-
bildung regierender Lexeme und Hauptzüge der Distribution (I).
Deutsch als Fremdsprache 26: 2-7.
1997 Drohen und versprechen als sogenannte ‚Modalitätsverben‘ in der
deutschen Gegenwartssprache. Deutsch als Fremdsprache 34: 12-19.
1998 Zur Syntax infiniter Verbalformen in den Berthold von Regensburg
zugeschriebenen deutschen Predigten. Vorstufe der topologischen
Kohärenz-Inkohärenz-Opposition. In Historische germanische und
deutsche Syntax: Akten des Internationalen Symposiums anläßlich
des 100. Geburtstages von Ingerid Dal. John O. Askedal (ed.), 231-
259. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
1999 Zur Frage der Auxiliarisierung einiger deutscher Verben. In Linguis-
tik und Deutsch als Fremdsprache. Festschrift für Gerhard Helbig
References 349
zum 70. Geburtstag. Bernd Skibitzki and Barbara Wotjak (eds.), 1-
13. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
2005 Grammatikalisierung und Persistenz im deutschen „Rezipienten-
Passiv“ mit bekommen/kriegen/erhalten. In Grammatikalisierung im
Deutschen. Torsten Leuschner, Tanja Mortelmans and Sarah de
Groodt (eds.), 211-228. Berlin/New York: de Gruyter.
Autenrieth, Tanja
2002 Heterosemie und Grammatikalisierung bei Modalpartikeln: eine
synchrone und diachrone Studie anhand von „eben“, „halt“,
„e(cher)t“, “einfach“, „schlicht“ und „glatt“. Tübigen: Niemeyer.
Auwera, Johan van der and Vladimir A. Plungian
1998 Modality’s semantic map. Linguistic Typology 2 (1): 79-124.
Bech, Gunnar
1949 Das semantische System der deutschen Modalverba. Copenhague:
Einar Munksgaard.
1951 Studien über das deutsche Verbum Infinitum. Copenhague: Einar
Munksgaard.
Bergs, Alex and Gabriele Diewald (eds.)
2008 Constructions and Language Change. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Birkmann, Thomas
1987 Präteritopräsentia: morphologische Entwicklungen einer Sonder-
klasse in den altgermanischen Sprachen. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Bisang, Walter
1998 Grammaticalization and language contact, constructions and posi-
tions. In The Limits of Grammaticalization. Anna Giacalone Ramat
and Paul J. Hopper (eds.), 13-58. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Brinkmann, Hennig
1971 Die deutsche Sprache: Gestalt und Leistung. Düsseldorf: Schwann.
Bühler, Karl
1932 Das Ganze der Sprachtheorie, ihr Aufbau und ihre Teile. In Bericht
über den XII. Kongreß der Deutschen Gesellschaft für Psychologie
in Hamburg vom 12.-16. April 1931. Gustav Kafka (ed.), 95-122.
Jena: Fischer.
1989 Reprint. Sprachtheorie: Die Darstellungsfunktion der Sprache. 3rd
ed. Stuttgart: UTB. Original edition, Jena: Fischer, 1934.
Bybee, Joan L.
1985 Morphology. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan L., William Pagliuca and Revere Perkins
1991 Back to the future. In Approaches to Grammaticalization. Traugott,
Elizabeth Closs and Bernd Heine (ed.), 17-58. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
350 References
Bybee, Joan L., Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca
1994 The Evolution of Grammar. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Calbert, Joseph P. and Heinz Vater
1975 Aspekte der Modalität. Tübingen: Narr.
Chafe, Wallace L. and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality. Norwood/New Jersey: Ablex.
Coates, Jennifer
1983 The semantics of the modal auxiliaries. London/Sydney: Croom
Helm.
Cornillie, Bert
2004 The shift from lexical to subjective readings in Spanish prometer
‘promise’ and amenazar ‘threaten’. A corpus-based account. Prag-
matics 14 (1): 1-30.
2005 A paradigmatic view of Spanish amenazar ‘to threaten’ and prome-
ter ‘to promise’. Folia Linguistica 39 (3-4): 385-415.
2007 Evidentiality and epistemic modality in Spanish (semi)auxiliaries:
a cognitive-functional approach. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Croft, William
2000 Explaining language change: an evolutionary approach. Harlow:
Longman.
2001 Radical construction grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Dasher, Richard B.
1995 Grammaticalization in the System of Japanese Predicate Honorifics.
Ph.D. diss., Stanford University.
Deeg, Käthe
1948 Der Infinitiv Perfekt im Frühmittelhochdeutschen. Ph.D. diss., Uni-
versity of Munich.
Dendale, Patrick and Liliane Tasmowski
2001 Introduction: evidentiality and related notions. Journal of Prag-
matics 33 (3): 339-348.
Dieling, Klaus
1982 Das Hilfsverb werden als Zeit- und Hypothesenfunktor. Zeitschrift
für Germanistik 3: 325-331.
Diewald, Gabriele
1991 Deixis und Textsorten im Deutschen. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
1993 Zur Grammatikalisierung der Modalverben im Deutschen. Zeitschrift
für Sprachwissenschaft 12 (2): 218-234.
1997 Grammatikalisierung: Eine Einführung in Sein und Werden gram-
matischer Formen. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
1999a Die Modalverben im Deutschen. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
1999b The integration of the German modals into the paradigm of verbal
mood. In Langue and Parole in Synchronic and Diachronic Perspec-
References 351
tive. Selected Proceedings of the XXXIst Annual Meeting of the So-
cietas Linguistica Europaea, St Andrews 1998. Beedham, Christo-
pher (ed.), 119-129. Oxford: Pergamon.
2000 Scheinen als Faktizitätsmarker. In Wortschatz und Orthographie in
Geschichte und Gegenwart. Festschrift für Horst Haider Munske
zum 65. Geburtstag. Mechthild Habermann, Peter O. Müller and
Bernd Naumann (eds.), 333-355. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
2001 Scheinen-Probleme: Analogie, Konstruktionsmischung und die Sog-
wirkung aktiver Grammatikalisierungskanäle. In Modalität und Mo-
dalverben im Deutschen. Reimar Müller and Marga Reis (eds.), 87-
110. Hamburg: Buske.
2002 A model for relevant types of contexts in grammaticalization. In New
Reflections on Grammaticalization II. Ilse Wischer and Gabriele
Diewald (eds.), 103-120. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2004 Faktizität und Evidentialität: Semantische Differenzierungen bei den
Modal- und Modalitätsverben im Deutschen. In Tempus/ Temporali-
tät und Modus/ Modalität im Sprachenvergleich. Oddleif Leirbukt
(eds.), 231-258. Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
2005 Werden & Infinitiv - Versuch einer Zwischenbilanz nebst Ausblick.
Deutsch als Fremdsprache 42 (1): 23-32.
2006a Context types in grammaticalization as constructions. In Construc-
tions. Special Volume 1: Constructions all over - case studies and
theoretical implications. Schönefeld, Doris (ed.).
http://www.constructions-online.de/articles/specvol1/
2006 Discourse particles and modal particles as grammatical elements. In
Approaches to discourse particles. Fischer, Kerstin (ed.), 403-425.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
2008 Grammatikalisierung, Grammatik und grammatische Kategorien:
Überlegungen zur Entwicklung eines grammatikalisierungsaffinen
Grammatikbegriffs. In Grammatikalisierung und grammatische Ka-
tegorien. Stolz, Thomas (ed.), 1-32. Brockmeyer: Bochum.
to appear On some problem areas in grammaticalization theory. In What’s New
in Grammaticalization. König, Ekkehard, Elke Gehweiler and Kate-
rina Stathi (eds.). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Diewald, Gabriele and Kerstin Fischer
1998 Zur diskursiven und modalen Funktion der Partikeln aber, auch,
doch und ja in Instruktionsdialogen. Linguistica 38 (1): 75-99.
Diewald, Gabriele, Timm Lehmberg and Elena Smirnova
2007 KALI - A Diachronic Corpus for the Investigation of Grammaticali-
zation and Semantic Change. Data Structures for Linguistic Re-
sources and Applications. Proceedings of the Biennial GLDV Confe-
rence 2007. Georg Rehm, Andreas Witt and Lothar Lemnitzer (eds.),
103-112. Tübingen: Narr.
352 References
Diewald, Gabriele and Elena Smirnova
in print The German evidential constructions and their origins. A corpus
based analysis. In Papers presented at the International conference
on tense, aspect, mood, and modality, 18-20 september 2006, Uni-
versity of Antwerp, Belgium. Brisard, Frank, Tanja Mortelmans and
Walter de Mulder (eds.)
Diewald, Gabriele and Ilse Wischer
2005 Reconstructing grammaticalization and the definition of grammar,
New Reflections on Grammaticalization 3, Santiago de Compostela,
Spain. 19th
-23rd
July 2005 [unpublished manuscript].
DUDEN (ed.)
2005 Grammatik. Vol. 4. Mannheim: Dudenverlag.
Eastman, Robert and Elizabeth Eastman
1963 Iquito syntax. In Studies in Peruvian Indian Languages. Vol. 1. 145-
92. Norman/Oklahoma.
Ebert, Robert P.
1976 Infinitival Complement Constructions in Early New High German.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Eisenberg, Peter
2004 Reprint. Grundriß der deutschen Grammatik. Vol. 1: Das Wort. 2nd
ed. Stuttgart/Weimar: Metzler. Original edition, Stuttgart/Weimar:
Metzler, 1998.
Engel, Ulrich
2002 Deutsche Grammatik. München: Iudicium.
Fabricius-Hansen, Cathrine
1986 Tempus fugit: über die Interpretation temporaler Strukturen im
Deutschen. Düsseldorf: Schwann.
1998 Über den Platz des würde-Gefüges im Tempus-Modus-System des
gegenwärtigen Deutsch. In Sprachgermanistik in Skandinavien III:
Akten des IV. Nordischen Germanistentreffens auf Schloss
Sandbjerg, 5. bis 8. Juli 1996. Pors, Harald, Lisbeth Falster Jakobsen
und Flemming Talbo Stubkjær (eds.), 135-158. Århus: Det
Erhvervssproglige Fak., Handelshøjskolen.
2000 Die Geheimnisse der deutschen würde-Konstruktion. In Deutsche
Grammatik in Theorie und Praxis. Rolf Thieroff (ed.), 83-96. Tübin-
gen: Niemeyer.
2002 Nicht-direktes Referat im Deutschen. Typologie und Abgrenzungs-
probleme. In Modus, Modalverben, Modalipartikeln. Cathrine
Fabricius-Hansen, Oddleof Leirbukt and Ole Letnes (eds.), 3-27.
Trier: Wissenschaftlicher Verlag Trier.
Faller, Martina
2002 Semantics and Pragmatics of Evidentials in Cuzco Quechua. Ph.D.
diss., Stanford University.
References 353
Fillmore, Charles and Paul Kay
1995 Construction Grammar. Ph.D. diss., University of California, Berke-
ley.
Fillmore, Charles, Paul Kay and Mary C. O’Connor
1988 Regularity and idiomaticity in grammatical constructions: The case
of let alone. Language 64 (3): 501–538.
Fischer, Kerstin and Anatol Stefanowitsch (eds.)
2006 Konstruktionsgrammatik: Von der Anwendung zur Theorie. Tübin-
gen: Stauffenburg.
2008 Konstruktionsgrammatik und grammatische Konstruktionen. Tübin-
gen: Stauffenburg.
Flämig, Walter
1991 Grammatik des Deutschen: Einführung in Struktur- und Wirkungszu-
sammenhänge. erarbeitet auf der theoretischen Grundlage der
„Grundzüge einer deutschen Grammatik“. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Floyd, Rick
1999 The Structure of Evidential Categories in Wanka Quechua. Dallas,
Texas: Summer Institute of Linguistics. (Summer Institute of Lin-
guistics and the University of Texas at Arlington publications in lin-
guistics).
Fox, Barbara A.
2001 Evidentiality: Authority, Responsibility, and Entitlement in English
Conversation. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 11 (2): 167-192.
Frachtenberg, Leo J.
1922 Coos: An illustrative sketch. In Handbook of American Indian lan-
guages. Vol.2. Franz Boas (ed.), 297-299, Washington: Government
Print Office (Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnolo-
gy).
Friedman, Victor A.
2000 Confirmative/nonconfirmative in Balkan Slavic, Balkan Romance,
and Albanian with additional observations on Turkish, Romani,
Georgian, and Lak. In Evidentials. Lars Johanson and Bo Utas (eds.),
329-366. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Fritz, Thomas
2000 Wahr-Sagen: Futur, Modalität und Sprecherbezug im Deutschen.
Hamburg: Buske.
Gamon, David
1993 On the development of epistemicity in the German modal verbs
mögen and müssen. Folia linguistica historica 14(1-2): 125-176.
Gelhaus, Hermann
1975 Das Futur in ausgewählten Texten der geschriebenen deutschen
Sprache der Gegenwart: Studien zum Tempussystem. München:
Hueber.
354 References
Giacalone Ramat, Anna and Manana Topadze
2007 The Coding of Evidentiality: A Comparative Look at Georgian and
Italian. Rivista di Linguistica Italiana 19 (1): 7-38.
Goldberg, Adele E.
1995 Constructions: a construction grammar approach to argument struc-
ture. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
2006 Constructions at Work. The Nature of Generalization in Language.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Grice, Herbert P.
1989 Reprint. Logic and conversation. In Studies in the way of words.
Herbert P. Grice (ed.), 22-40. Cambridge/Massachusetts: Harvard
University Press. Original edition Syntax and semantics. Vol.3:
Speech acts. Peter Cole and Jerry L. Morgan (eds.), 41-58. New
York: Academic, 1975.
Guentchéva, Zlatka
1996 Le Médiatif en Bulgare. In L' énonciation médiatisée. Zlatka Guent-
chéva (ed.), 47-70. Louvain/Paris: Peeters.
Gunkel, Lutz
2000 Selektion verbaler Komplemente. Zur Syntax der Halbmodal- und
Phasenverben. In Deutsche Grammatik in Theorie und Praxis.
Thieroff, Rolf (ed.), 111-121. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Hagège, Claude
1987 Le Français et les siècles. Paris: Jacob.
de Haan, Ferdinand
1999 Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality: Setting Boundaries. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics 18: 83-101.
2001 The Relation between Modality and Evidentiality. Linguistische
Berichte 9: 201-216.
2005 Encoding speaker perspective: Evidentials. In Linguistic diversity
and language theories. Frajzyngier, Zygmunt, Adam Hodges and
David S. Rood (eds.), 379-397. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Hanks, William F
1992 The Indexical Ground of Deictic Reference. In Rethinking Context,
Language as an Interactive Phenomenon. Duranti, Alessandro and
Charles Goodwin (eds.), 43-77. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Haspelmath, Martin
1999 Why is grammaticalization irreversible? Linguistics 37 (6): 1043-68.
Heine, Bernd
1993 Auxiliaries: cognitive forces and grammaticalization. New York:
Oxford University Press.
References 355
2002 On the role of context in grammaticalization. In New Reflections on
Grammaticalization. Wischer, Ilse and Gabriele Diewald (eds.), 83-
101. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2003 Grammaticalization. In The Handbook of Historical Linguistics.
Brian D. Joseph and Richard D. Janda (eds.), 575-601. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Heine, Bernd, Ulrike Claudi and Friederike Hünnemeyer
1991 Grammaticalization: A Conceptual Framework. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Heine, Bernd and Tanja Kuteva
2002 World Lexicon of Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Heine, Bernd and Hiroyuki Miyashita
2008 Accounting for a functional category: German drohen ‘to threaten’.
Language Sciences 30: 53-101.
Helbig, Gerhard and Joachim Buscha
2001 Deutsche Grammatik. Ein Handbuch für den Ausländerunterricht.
Berlin: Langenscheidt.
Himmelmann, Nikolaus P.
2004 Lexicalization and grammaticalization: Opposite or orthogonal? In
What makes Grammaticalization? A Look from its Fringes and its
Components. Walter Bisang, Nikolaus P. Himmelmann and Björn
Wiemer (eds.), 21-42. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2005 Gram, construction, and class formation. In Wortarten und Gramma-
tikalisierung. Clemens Knobloch and Burkhard Schaeder (eds.), 79-
93. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Hopper, Paul
1990 Principles of Grammaticalization: Towards a Diachronic Typology.
In Language Typology 1987. Systematic Balance in Language. Pa-
pers from the Linguistic Typology Symposium, Berkeley, 1-3 Decem-
ber 1987. Winfred P. Lehmann (ed.), 157–170. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
1991 On some principles of grammaticalization. In Approaches to Gram-
maticalization. Elizabeth C. Traugott and Bernd Heine (eds.), 18–35.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Hopper, Paul J. and Elizabeth Closs Traugott
2003 Reprint. Grammaticalization. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press. Original edition, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1993.
Itayama, Mayumi
1993 Werden - modaler als die Modalverben. Deutsch als Fremdsprache
30 (4): 233-237.
356 References
Jacobsen, William H., Jr.
1986 The Heterogeneity of Evidentials in Makah. In Evidentiality. Chafe,
Wallace L. and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 3-28. Norwood/New Jersey:
Ablex.
Jakobson, Roman
1971 Reprint. Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. In Selected
Writings, Vol. II: Word and language. Roman Jakobson (ed.), 130-
147. Berlin: de Gruyter. Original edition, Harvard: Harvard Univer-
sity, Dept. of Slavic Languages and Literatures, 1957.
Johanson, Lars
2000 Turkic indirectives. In Evidentials. Lars Johanson and Bo Utas
(eds.), 61-88. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.)
2000 Evidentials. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Joseph, Brian D.
2003 Morphologization from Syntax. In The handbook of historical lin-
guistics. Brian D. Joseph and Richard D. Janda (eds.), 472-492. Mal-
den, Massachusetts: Blackwell.
Jung, Walter
1988 Grammatik der deutschen Sprache. Leipzig: Bibliographisches Insti-
tut.
Kay, Paul and Charles J. Fillmore
1999 Grammatical constructions and linguistic generalizations: The
What’s X doing Y? construction”. Language 75 (1): 1–33.
Kleiner, Mathilde
1925 Zur Entwicklung der Futur-Umschreibung werden mit dem Infinitiv.
University of California Publications in Modern Philology 12: 1-
101.
Kokutani, Shigehiro
2004 Grammatikalisierung ist keine Desemantisierung. Zur Identifizierung
von syntaktischen Kategorien und Hilfsverben. Neue Beiträge zur
Germanistik 3 (2): 48-61.
Kotin, Michail
2003 Die werden-Perspektive und die werden-Periphrasen im Deutschen.
Frankfurt/Main: Lang.
Kuryłowicz, Jerzy
1965 The evolution of grammatical categories. Diogenes 51: 55-71.
Langacker, Ronald W.
1985 Observations and speculations on subjectivity. In Iconicity in syntax:
Proceedings of a symposium on iconicity in syntax, Stanford, June
24-6, 1983. John Haiman (ed.), 109-150. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
References 357
1987 Foundations of cognitive grammar Vol. 1: Theoretical prerequisites.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
1991 Foundations of Cognitive Grammar. Volume II: Descriptive Applica-
tion. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
1999 Losing control: grammaticization, subjectification, and transparency.
In Historical semantics and cognition. Andreas Blank (ed.), 147-175.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
2008 Cognitive grammar: a basic introduction. New York: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Lazard, Gilbert
1999 Mirativity, evidentiality, mediativity, or other? Linguistic Typology 3
(1): 91-109.
2001 On the grammaticalization of evidentiality. Journal of Pragmatics 33
(3): 359-368.
Lehmann, Christian
1985 Grammaticalization: synchronic variation and diachronic change.
Lingua e Stile 20 (3): 303-318.
1995 Reprint. Thoughts on grammaticalization. Revised and expanded
version. First published edition. München: Lincom Europa. Original
edition, Köln: Kölner Universalienprojekt, 1982.
2002 New reflections on grammaticalization and lexicalization. In New
Reflections on Grammaticalization. Ilse Wischer and Gabriele
Diewald (eds.), 1-18. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2004 Theory and Method in Grammaticalization. Zeitschrift für Germanis-
tische Linguistik 32 (2): 152-187.
Leirbukt, Oddleif
1997 Untersuchungen zum bekommen-Passiv im heutigen Deutsch. Tü-
bingen: Niemeyer.
Leiss, Elisabeth
1992 Die Verbalkategorien des Deutschen. Berlin: de Gruyter.
2000 Artikel und Aspekt: die grammatischen Muster von Definitheit.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
2008 The silent and aspect-driven patterns of deonticity and epistemicity.
In Modality-Aspect Interfaces: Implications and typological solu-
tions. Werner Abraham and Elisabeth Leiss (eds.), 15-42.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Lerch, Eugen
1942 Das Futurum des zu Erwartenden im Französischen und im Deut-
schen. Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 43: 161-191.
Letnes, Ole
1997 ‚Sollen‘ als Indikator für Redewiedergabe. In Aspekte der Modalität
im Deutschen – auch in kontrastiver Sicht. F. Debus and Oddleif
Leirbukt (eds.), 119-134. Hildesheim: Olms.
358 References
Lipsky, Angela
2002 Eine semantische und pragmatische Darstellung der Konstruktion
werden + Infinitiv. Deutsch als Fremdsprache 39 (2): 103-107.
Lüdeling, Anke, Emil Kroymann, Sebastian Thiebes, and Ulf Leser
2004 Eine vergleichende Analyse von historischen und diachronen digita-
len Korpora. Technical Report 174 des Instituts für Informatik der
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, November 2004.
Lyons, John
1977 Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Matlock, Teenie
1989 Metaphor and the grammaticalization of evidentials. Proceedings of
the Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistic Society 15: 215-25.
Matzel, Klaus and Bjarne Ulvestad
1982 Futur I und futurisches Präsens. Sprachwissenschaft 7: 282-328.
Meid, Wolfgang
1971 Das germanische Praeteritum: indogermanische Grundlagen und
Ausbreitung im Germanischen. Innsbruck: Kowatsch
1983 Bemerkungen zum indoeuropäischen Perfekt und zum germanischen
starken Praeteritum. Zeitschrift für Phonetik, Sprachwissenschaft und
Kommunikationsforschung 36 (3): 329-336.
Melcuk, Igor A.
1998 Kurs obšcej morfologii = Cours de morphologie générale 2:
Morfologiceskie znacenija. Moskva: Škola jazyki russkoj kul'tury.
Michaelis, Laura
2004 Type shifting in construction grammar: An integrated approach to
aspectual coercion. Cognitive Linguistics 15: 1-67.
Mortelmans, Tanja
2000a Konjunktiv II and Epistemic Modals in German: A Division of La-
bour. In Constructions in Cognitive Linguistics. Selected Papers
from the Fifth International Cognitive Linguistics Conference, Ams-
terdam, 1997. Ad Foolen and Frederike van der Leek (eds.), 191-
215, Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2000b On the evidential nature of the epistemic use of the German modals
müssen and sollen. In Modal verbs in Germanic and Romance lan-
guages. Johan Van der Auwera and Patrick Dendale (eds.), 131-148.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2004 The status of the German auxiliary werden as a ‘grounding predica-
tion’. In Modalität und Übersetzung. Heinz Vater and Ole Letnes
(eds.), 33-56. Trier: Wissenschaftlicher Verlag Trier.
2009 Erscheinungsformen der indirekten Rede im Niederländischen und
Deutschen: zou-, soll(te)- und der Konjunktiv I. In Modalität:
Epistemik und Evidentialität bei Modalverb, Adverb, Modalpartikel
References 359
und Modus. Werner Abraham and Elisabeth Leiss (eds.), 171-187.
Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
Mushin, Ilana
2001 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance: Narrative Retelling. Am-
sterdamI Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Nordlinger, R and Elizabeth C. Traugott
1997 Scope and the development of epistemic modality: evidence from
ought to. English Language and Liguistics 1 (2): 295-317.
Nuyts, Jan
2001 Epistemic modality, language and conceptualization: a cognitive-
pragmatic perspective. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Olsen, Susan
1981 Problems of seem/scheinen. Constructions and their Implications for
the Theory of Predicate Sentential Complementation. Tübingen:
Niemeyer.
Oswalt, Robert L.
1986 The Evidential System of Kashaya. In Evidentiality. Wallace L.
Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 29-45. Norwood/New Jersey:
Ablex.
Pafel, Jürgen
1989 Scheinen + Infinitiv. Eine oberflächengrammatische Analyse. In
Wissen, Wahrnehmen, Glauben: epistemische Ausdrücke und propo-
sitionale Einstellungen. Gabriel Falkenberg (ed.), 123-174. Tübin-
gen: Niemeyer.
Palander-Collin, Minna
1999 Grammaticalization and Social Embedding: I Think and Methinks in
Middle and Early Modern English. Helsinki: Société Néophi-
lologique.
Palmer, Frank Robert
1986 Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
2001 Mood and Modality. 2nd
ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Paul, Hermann
1992 Reprint. Deutsches Wörterbuch. 9th ed. Tübingen: Niemeyer. Origi-
nal edition, Halle: Niemeyer, 1897.
1989 Reprint. Mittelhochdeutsche Grammatik. 23rd
ed. Tübingen: Nie-
meyer. Original edition, Tübingen: Niemeyer, 1881.
Plungian, Vladimir A.
1998 Ƚɪɚɦɦɚɬɢɱɟɫɤɢɟ ɤɚɬɟɝɨɪɢɢ, ɢɯ ɚɧɚɥɨɝɢ ɢ ɡɚɦɟɫɬɢɬɟɥɢ.
Ɇɨɫɤɜɚ, 1998. [“Grammatical categories, their analogues and alter-
natives”, postdoctoral lecture qualification].
2001 The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal of Pragmatics 33: 349-357.
360 References
Radtke, Petra
1998 Die Kategorien des deutschen Verbs: zur Semantik grammatischer
Kategorien. Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
Rauh, Gisa
1978 Linguistische Beschreibung deiktischer Komplexität in narrativen
Texten. Tübingen: Narr.
1984 Aspekte der Deixis. Sprachwissenschaft 9: 23-84.
Reis, Marga
2005 Zur Grammatik der sog. ‘Halbmodale’ drohen/ versprechen + Infini-
tiv. In Deutsche Syntax. Empirie und Theorie. Symposium Göteborg
13.-15- Mai 2004. Franz J. D’Avis (ed.), 125-145. Göteborg: Acta
Universitatis Gothoburgensis.
Saltveit, Laurits
1962 Studien zum deutschen Futur. Die Fügungen werden mit Partizip des
Präsens und werden mit dem Infinitiv in ihren heutigen Funktionen
und in ihrer geschichtlichen Entwicklung. Oslo: Norwegian Univer-
sities Press.
Schlichter, Alice
1986 The origin and deictic nature of Wintu evidentials. In Evidentiality.
Wallace L. Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 273-312.
Norwood/New Jersey: Ablex.
Schmid, Hans Ulrich
2000 Die Ausbildung des werden-Futurs. Überlegungen auf der Grundlage
mittelalterlicher Endzeitprophezeiungen. Zeitschrift für Dialektolo-
gie und Linguistik 67: 6-27.
Sennholz, Klaus
1985 Grundzüge der Deixis. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Smirnova, Elena
2006 Die Entwicklung der Konstruktion würde + Infinitiv im Deutschen.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
2007 Rekonstruktion eines Grammatikalisierungsprozesses. Entwicklung
der Konstruktion würde + Infinitiv zum Konjunktiv II-Grammem.
Zeitschrift für Dialektologie und Linguistik 74 (1): 20-37.
Speas, Margaret
2004 Evidentiality, logophoricity and the syntactic representation of
pragmatic features. Lingua 114 (33): 255-276.
Squartini, Mario
2001 The internal structure of evidentiality in Romance. Studies in Lan-
guage 25 (2): 297–334.
2004 Disentangling evidentiality and epistemic modality in Romance.
Lingua 114: 873-895.
Stolz, Thomas and Benedikt Jeßing (eds.)
1994 Grammatikalisierung und Metaphorisierung. Bochum: Brockmeyer.
References 361
Sumbatova, Nina
1999 Evidentiality, transitivity and split ergativity: evidence from Svan. In
Tense-Aspect, Transitivity and Causativity. Werner Abraham and
Leonid Kulikov (eds.), 63-95. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Ben-
jamins.
Sweetser, Eve
1988 Grammaticalization and semantic bleaching. In Proceedings of the
Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society. Shel-
ley Axmaker, Annie Jaisser, and Helen Singmaster (eds.), 389-405.
Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
1990 From Etymology to Pragmatics: Metaphorical and Cultural Aspects
of Semantic Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Thieroff, Rolf
1992 Das finite Verb im Deutschen: Tempus, Modus, Distanz. Tübingen:
Narr.
Tournadre, Nicolas
1996 Comparaison des Systèmes médiatifs de quatre dialectes Tibétains
(Tibétain Central, Ladakhi, Dzongkha et Amdo). In L' énonciation
médiatisée. Zlatka Guentchéva (ed.), 47-70. Louvain/Paris: Peeters.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs
1982 From propositional to textual and expressive meanings: some seman-
tic-pragmatic aspects of grammaticalization. In Perspectives on His-
torical Linguistics. Winfred P. Lehmann and Yakov Malkiel (eds.),
245-271. Amsterdam/Philadelhia: John Benjamins.
1989 On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: an example of subjec-
tification in semantic change. Language 57: 31-55.
1995 Subjectification in grammaticalization. In Subjectivity and subjectifi-
cation: Linguistic perspectives. Dieter Stein and Susan Wright (eds.),
31-54. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1997 Subjectification and the development of epistemic meaning: the case
of promise and threaten. In Modality in Germanic Languages: His-
torical and Comparative Perspectives. Toril Swan and Olaf Jansen
Westvik (eds.), 185-210. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
1999 The rhetoric of counter-expectation in semantic change: A study in
subjectification. In Historical semantics and cognition. Andreas
Blank and Peter Koch (eds.), 177-196. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2003 Constructions in Grammaticalization. In The Handbook of Historical
Linguistics. Brian D. Joseph and Richard D. Janda (eds.), 575-601.
Oxford: Blackwell.
2008 Grammatikalisierung, emergente Konstruktionen und der Begriff der
Neuheit. In Konstruktionsgrammatik II. Von der Konstruktion zur
362 References
Grammatik. Translated by Arne Zeschel. Anatol Stefanowitsch and
Kerstin Fischer (eds.), 5-32. Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Richard B. Dasher
2002 Regularity in Semantic Change. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Ekkehard König
1991 The semantics-pragmatics of grammaticalization revisited. In Ap-
proaches to Grammaticalization. Vol 1: Focus on theoretical and
Methodological Issues. Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Bernd Heine
(eds.), 189-218. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Vater, Heinz
1975 werden als Modalverb. In Aspekte der Modalität. Calbert, Joseph P.
and Heinz Vater (eds.), 71-148. Tübingen: Narr.
Verhagen, Arie
2000 The girl that promised to become something: an exploration into
diachronic subjectification in Dutch. In The Berkeley Conference on
Dutch Linguistics 1997. Dutch Linguistics at the Millenium. Lanham
Thomas Frederic Shannon and Johan Pieter Snapper (eds.), 197-208.
MD: University Press of America.
Vliegen, Maurice
2006 The relation between lexical and epistemic readings: the require-
ments of promise and threaten in Dutch and German. In Topics in
Subjectification and Modalization. Bert Cornillie and Nicole Del-
becque (eds.), 73-95. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Weinrich, Harald
2003 Textgrammatik der deutschen Sprache. Hildesheim: Olms.
Welke, Klaus
2005 Tempus im Deutschen: Rekonstruktion eines semantischen Systems.
Berlin: de Gruyter.
Westvik, Olaf Jansen
1994 Language Change and Language Structure: Older Germanic Lan-
guages in a Comparative Perspective. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2000 Über Herkunft und Geschichte des werden - Futurs. Eine Auseinan-
dersetzung mit neuerer und neuester Forschung. In Raum, Zeit, Me-
dium. Festschrift für Hans Ramge zum 60. Geburtstag. Richter, Gerd
Richter, Hans Ramge, Jorg Riecke and Britt-Marie Schuster (eds.),
235-261. Darmstadt: Hessische Historische Kommission.
Whitt, Richard
2008 Evidentiality and Perception Verbs in English and German: A cor-
pus-based analysis from the early modern period to the present.
Ph.D. diss., Department of German, University of California, Berke-
ley.
References 363
Wiemer, Björn
to appear Hearsay in European languages. Toward an integrative account of
grammatical and lexical marking. In Linguistic Realization of Evi-
dentiality in European Languages. Gabriele Diewald and Elena
Smirnova (eds.). Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Wierzbicka, Anna
1986 A semantic metalanguage for the description and comparison of
illocutionary meanings. Journal of Pragmatics 10 (1): 67-107.
1991 Cross-Cultural Pragmatics. The Semantics of Human Interaction.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
1994 Semantics and epistemology. The meaning of ‘evidentials’ in a
cross-linguistic perspective. Language Sciences 16 (1): 81-137.
1996 Semantics, Primes and Universals. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Wiesinger, Peter
2001 Zum frühneuhochdeutschen Ausdruck der Aktionsart im Präteritum
beim steirischen Dichtermönch Andreas Kurzmann um 1400. In Zur
Verbmorphologie germanischer Sprachen. Watts, Sheila, Jonathan
West and Hans-Joachin Solms (eds.), 175-188. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Willett, Thomas
1988 A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12: 51-97.
Wilmanns, Wilhelm
1906 Deutsche Grammatik. Dritte Abteilung: Flexion. 1. Hälfte: Verbum.
Strassburg: Trübner.
Zifonun, Gisela, Ludger Hoffmann and Bruno Strecker
1997 Grammatik der deutschen Sprache. In 3 Bänden. Berlin/New York:
de Gruyter.
Subject Index
abstract constructional schema 144,
155, 311, 329
agentive 108, 127, 130, 131, 135,
193f., 203, 204, 206, 207, 210, 211,
212, 270f., 280, 293, 301, 317
ambiguity 44, 49, 136f., 141, 185, 187,
198, 265
aspectuality 7
auxiliary 16, 20, 52, 108, 112, 116f.,
120, 131, 137, 148, 157, 160, 188,
237, 270, 310, 330
commissive 214f., 286, 289f., 293f.,
302, 307, 319
construction 26, 98, 143f., 153f., 155
construction type 34, 48, 144, 155, 158,
180, 192, 205, 230, 267, 268, 270f.,
280, 291f., 321f.
context 26, 33, 43, 98, 143f.
critical 144, 147f., 151, 149, 260,
277, 281, 296, 312, 315f.
isolating 144, 147, 152f., 279,
311f., 316, 318, 321
untypical 144, 145f., 247, 256, 274,
280, 291, 293, 295, 311f.
context dependence 136
conversational implicature 17, 44, 49,
72, 80, 93f., 136, 141f., 144f., 152,
183, 256
copula 160, 177, 184, 186f., 237, 240f.,
252f., 263, 303, 305, 313
compound copula 177, 179, 263
197, 210, 271
deictic dimension 11f., 54, 331
deictic function 10, 15
deictic relation 10f., 87, 88, 331
deixis 9, 12, 14, 70f., 81, 133
desired 78, 95f., 150, 224, 326, 334
evidential expression 3, 41f., 43, 51,
57, 67, 90, 93
evidential marker 3f., 10, 14, 15f., 23f.,
40, 42, 44, 46f., 50, 62, 90, 157,
327, 330
evidential periphrasis 44, 103
evidential strategy 41, 43, 45f., 49
evidentiality 2f.
auditory 55, 58, 332
direct 26, 53, 54f., 56f., 59, 177,
182f., 189f., 221, 225f., 266
endophoric 57-58
hearsay 5, 53, 59, 61, 64, 67, 69,
73, 227, 333
indirect 24, 51, 54f., 59f., 62-65,
69, 92, 191, 225, 227, 325,
332
inferential 18, 21, 59-65, 91f., 95
conceptual 63f., 177, 182,
189, 223, 224, 326
perceptual 63f., 112, 150,
157, 180, 191, 202,
224, 326
reportive 26, 59, 64-68, 72, 331
reflected 60
experiencer 88, 179, 279
externalization 308, 320
extraposition 109, 113, 117, 119,
factuality 6, 13, 72, 77-79, 81f., 87, 89,
94f.
frequency 43, 105, 142, 147, 213, 281,
287
future 104, 120, 125, 129, 161, 163f.,
Subject Index 365
167, 170, 172, 201, 232-237, 247
goal 78, 131-133, 303-307
gradience 136, 140-142, 145, 185
grammatical category 19, 40, 50f., 77
grammaticalization parameters 38, 42,
52, 105-197, 109, 116, 128, 143,
325
heterosemy 136, 138, 143, 155, 158
homogeneity of paradigm 220f.
idiom 144, 150, 153
indexical-grammatical function 133,
135, 308-310, 320
indexicality 10, 331
indicative 12, 78f., 83, 102, 148, 156f.,
ingressive 21, 43, 78, 89, 95, 120, 150,
160, 300, 303, 313, 321, 323
innovation 157
intentional 110, 178, 188, 194, 197f.,
207, 234, 237, 280, 296
mediated information 65, 69, 222, 227,
332
metaphorization 124-128, 299, 319,
328
metonymization 303, 323, 124f.
modal particle 44, 129, 136, 157
modal verb 18, 20, 50, 65, 78, 82-84,
86, 88f., 104, 125, 129, 139, 145,
152f., 171, 222, 227, 232, 235,
261f., 334
modality
deontic 89, 92, 139
dynamic 89, 99
epistemic 6, 17-19, 50, 68, 72, 76f.,
80, 83, 86f., 91f., 176, 201,
332
volitional 89, 334
mood 20, 41, 77, 104, 156
necessity 91f.
obligatoriness 99
communicative 100-102, 114
language internal 100-102
opacity 144, 147f., 151
oppositive values 19, 60, 222
origo 10-12, 326, 331f.
origo displacement 71
origo-exclusive 12-14, 54, 55, 78f.,
332
origo-inclusive 12-14, 54f., 78f.,
332
origo-shift 69-71, 333
paradigm 24, 78, 84, 94, 99-105, 115
paradigmaticity 99, 105f., 112, 154,
221, 329
paradigmaticization 20, 106, 154, 325,
329
paradigmatic context 144, 156, 321
path 130-132, 303-307
perception verb 8, 28, 44, 48, 58
performative 61, 126, 132, 163, 167,
194, 284
peripheral evidential construction 43-48
persistence 21, 155, 183, 185, 203,
213, 265
personal evidence 60-62
personification 127, 132, 274, 291, 315
polysemy 92, 136, 138f., 141-143, 158,
185
present experience 22, 202, 223
preterito-present 88f.
pre-evidential 46-49, 90
presentational construction 243
quotative 60f., 66-73, 79, 92, 156, 222,
333
referential function 133, 135, 308, 310,
320, 328
reinterpretation 22, 33, 88, 90, 124,
129, 142, 158, 198, 250, 266, 277,
282, 303, 308, 312, 327
renovation 156
subjective 23, 78, 166, 170, 182, 185,
366 Subject Index
scheme retention 128, 132, 158, 308,
328
secondary event 53, 55-57, 63f., 81,
331
secondary predication 4, 41, 46, 52, 87,
111, 150, 172, 186f., 190, 196, 257,
279
semantic abstraction 302, 319
semi-auxiliary 109, 193, 207
source 11, 52, 56, 63, 81-87, 130, 320,
333
speech act 69, 110, 116, 126, 130, 132,
150, 214, 272, 286, 291, 293, 301,
307, 310, 317, 321, 323
193, 264
subjunctive 12, 72, 78f., 83, 148, 156,
162, 180, 248, 258, 263
syntagmatic pattern 230, 237, 244, 252,
262, 270, 286, 293
temporality 7, 23, 51, 75
tense 7, 219, 232f.
text-connective function 135, 169, 309
visual 2, 6, 20, 44, 49, 52, 55, 57, 58,
172, 178, 180, 183, 188, 226, 254,
262, 264, 301, 304, 309, 314, 316,
321, 323, 328
