Jacobsen: The Heterogeneity of Evidential in Makah 19
although one thinks of comparing the Nootka auditory suffix -'in (a Nootkan
morpheme-final *n ~ *t alternation being well attested). It can be preceded by a
past tense marker -'-.
Inferred probability is marked in Makah by -xa:-..-š, where the -šcomes after
the pronominal suffix. This indicates a probability inferred from unspecified
evidence. Examples are:
(57) dudwkakxa-s
'He's probably singing.' (cf. dudwkal 'He's singing.')
(58) dudu-kikxa-s
'He'll probably sing.'
(59) tukye-^itxa-swls
'They probably gave it to you.'
(This last is passive with pronominal indication of second person singular patient
and plural agent.)
Nitinat has comparable forms marked with -xi-..-is. Carlson and Thomas
(1979:321-5) feel that these have evidential value only in the past tense; they
gloss the present tense forms with / guess, I think, and might; Klokeid (1976,
1978) calls this category UNKNOWN; Haas (1969:113) labels the forms MAYBE.2 3
Corresponding past inferential forms in Makah are marked by -xuča?a:-..-š:
(60) dudwkakxuča?a-š
'He probably sang.' (cf. dudu-kak^u 'He sang.')
(61) kvxw
awe-?itxuč(Pa-svš
'He probably made fun of me.'
(This second example is again passive, with an indication of first person singular
patient.)
These forms probably contain a past tense marker -'u-, which occurs else­
where, and the -ča- of the nonindicative quotative forms. In Nitinat the past
inferential is marked by -'- (giving -x?i-..-iš); this may relate to the -'- in Makah.
This ending also recalls the Nootka inferential in -ča-'.aš, meaning 'apparently'
(categorized, it will be remembered, along with the quotative, as an evidential by
Swadesh [1939:82]).
The related ending -°a:-..-škub indicates that the speaker has only belatedly
become aware of a fact or event:
(62) čapaca-škub
'It's a canoe. ' (after you finally make out what it is) (cf. čapac 'It's a canoe.')
23
The -x- here is perhaps to be equated with a marker of the RELATIVE paradigm (Jacobsen
19
73), called by Carlson and Thomas (1979:323) SUBJECT FOCUS.
20 Evidentially in North and South America
(63) pe-dišatxa-škub
'(We found out that) it was the Spanish.'
(This refers to the Makahs' belated learning that it was the Spanish who had left
certain remains in their territory.)
A final example has a second person singular pronominal suffix:
(64) hitaqeyala-swškub
'(I see) you have arrived.'
This is, of course, like the present tense form of the previous section without
the preceding -x-, but with an added segment -hub. This -hub might be compared
to KwakiutI -kdtn 'sign (of . , .), omen'.
There is also a past tense form with added -u- to yield -\Pa:~..-Skub:
(65) ?
o- čapaciPa-škub
'Oh, so it was a canoe.'
which could be a response to:
(66) capacpi-d
'It must have been a canoe.'
GOVERNING FORMATIVE SUFFIXES
The last group of evidentials that we will examine are governing formative
suffixes. They all occur preponderantly with substantival or descriptive, rather
than evidential, value, but seem to play the latter role in certain circumstances.
There is also usually a distributional correlation, in that when they have eviden­
tial value they do not occur with bound stems or with combining-forms of free
stems, as they do in their other meanings. They may thus provide a further
indication of how evidentials may arise from morphemes with these kinds of
concrete meanings, in connection with a move to a less central layer of the word.
The suffix -ckw
i- (combining-form -ckw
iq-) usually forms nouns referring to
remains or debris resulting from a particular action. However, when added to the
free noun stem bukwac 'deer' it underlies a predication indicating tracks as the
source of evidence:
(67) bukwačck?i
'It was a deer.' (when seeing the tracks) (cf. bukwac 'It's a deer.', buhvač^u
'It was a deer.')24
24
A regular rule of dissimilation of labialization accounts for the -k- rather than
-kw
- in the suffix.
Jacobsen: The Heterogeneity of Evidential In Makah 21
Contrast
(68) bukwaci-c Èi-yit
'It's deer tracks.' (ki-yit 'tracks')
when explicitly identifying the tracks as such, and also the previously cited
(21) ?aki-tqw
alpi-d
'It must have been a bear. '
which is less specific about the nature of the evidence. The following example,
with stem qidi-% 'dog', would apply to tentative identification of a tooth found
lying alone:
(69) qidi-Èicckw
i-'?
čičPi
'It must've been a dog's tooth.' (čičPi: 'tooth')
Examples follow of the more numerous cases where formations with this
suffix either label the remains or debris itself,
(70) xašckw
i
'skeleton, bony remains' (xas- 'bone')
(71) luxcki
'skull' (lux- 'head')
(72) čitckw
i
'sawdust' (čit- 'to saw')
or assert its existence or identification, when predicative:
(73) hiscW*
'It's chips from chopping.' (his- 'to chop')
(74) k^v^k^i-yacPi
'It's powder from sharpening mussel shells. ' (repetitive form of lei- 'to sharpen,
grind')
(75) quickie
'He's from a slave family.' (qui- 'slave')
(76) 'tuxeki-b^u
'It was a skull.' (past tense)
Cognate suffixes occur in Nitinat and Nootka. A similar meaning is seen in
Kwakiutl -s?o 'piece of, remains of, and apparently also in Quileute -stake-til
'remainder, waste' (Andrade 1933:195). These are not known to have evidential
functions. There is also a Nootka suffix -yit 'showing evidence, traces, marks
of . . .', and a Nitinat cognate -yit (-yt) 'evidence, signs, tracks of . . .':
22 Evidentiality in North and South America
(77) ?akevt
'tracks of two' (?ak 'two')
(78) bu-yit
'tracks of four' (bu- 'four')
(79) buwceyt
'deer tracks, signs' (buwac 'deer')
The Makah cognate -yit is not well attested, but occurs in
(80) h-yit
'tracks' (ki-- 'to walk')
The formative suffix -kuk has been noted as an evidential only in the second
person, where it indicates evidence based on appearances, as in:
(81) ka-ci-wikkuwic
'You look like you're getting fat.' (cf. ka-ci-vftalic 'You're getting fat.')
This suffix occurs much more commonly, with initial CV- reduplication, on
combining-forms of stems, to express idiomatic nominal derivation involving
physical resemblance, as in:
(82) babačaskuk
'wheat, grain', lit. 'looks like fleas' {bačas- 'flea')
(83) ciciyupkuk
'spaghetti, macaroni', lit. 'looks like intestines' (ciyup- 'intestines')
(84) cicisaqkuk
'sugar', lit. 'looks like sand' {cisaq- 'sand')
(85) xaxaskuk
'hardtack, pilot bread, crackers', lit. 'looks like bones' (xas- 'bone')
(86) hlhisckw
iqkuk
'soda crackers', lit. 'looks like chips from chopping' (hisckw
iq- 'chips from
chopping')25
The evidential force of -kuk is not necessarily recent, however, as both values are
also described for the cognate Nootka suffix -kuk. Nitinat also has a cognate
suffix -kuk (more common allomorph -kkw
), attested in available materials only
in a nonevidential value. One thinks of comparing here also the Kwakiutl suffix
-kam 'sign (of . . .), omen' (cf. p. 20). Quileute has a comparable lexical suffix
25
Numerous additional examples of this Makah suffix occurring in neologisms are given in
Jacobsen (1980, pp. 170, 174-7), and some also of the Nitinat suffix, from Klokeid (1968, on p.
178).
Jacobsen: The Heterogeneity of Evidentials in Makah 23
-caqal 'similar, like in appearance' (Andrade [1933:197] shows -taq 'to be like,
look like').
With our final formative suffix, -pal, we are scraping the bottom of the barrel
in the search for evidentials. It clearly has a primarily descriptive value in
describing smells or tastes, but verges on being an evidential which indicates
evidence from these sense modalities in certain examples. Thus
(87) dcPwpak
'I smell it.' (cf. dcPa-s 'I hear it.')
can be taken literally as 'I hear (i.e. sense) it by the evidence of its smell.', and
the stem bis- 'to smell' rather redundantly takes this suffix in
(88) bisi-pab
'I smell something.' (cf. bisšik 'Smell it.')
Examples like the following hover on the borderline between description and
evidentiality:
(89) čabaspal
'It smells good, tastes sweet.' (cf. cabas 'It tastes good, sweet.')
(90) cixi-pal
'It's sour.' (cix- 'sour')
(91) 'čupal
'It stinks.' (eu- 'to stink'),
while those below seem more evidential in nature:
(92) ba-dawi-pal
'It smells like smelt.' (cf. ba-dawi-? 'It's a smelt.')
(93) žušaktpal
'It smells like dried fish.' (cf. àusakd 'It's dried fish.')
Cognate suffixes with about the same range of meanings are found in Nitinat
-pal (-pi) and Nootka (-pal). Nitinat examples are:
(94) jtohpt
'good smell, smell something good'
(95) swpupl
'soap smell'
(96) bucubuxqapl
'smell of bear'
24 Evidentiality in North and South America
(97) iu-Iicxqapl
'smell of flowers'
Kwakiutl has -pa 'to taste', from which is probably derived -pala 'to smell' (cf.
also -paito 'to see'). Boas (1911b:446; 1947:224), followed by Swadesh
(1948:117), also compares the Kwakiutl stem paq- 'to taste'. Quileute also has a
suffix with corresponding meanings, -\ada 'odor, smell, taste'.
As mentioned earlier (pp. 3-4), Kwakiutl has an evidential suffix referring to
the experience of a dream; this has the form -?anga.26
Makah has no comparable
evidential, but there is a formative suffix meaning 'to dream (of) . . . , to have
a . . . dream', -'a/wr (with CV- reduplication). Available Makah examples de-
scribe the quality of the dream:
(98) kuku-lapulakits
'I had a good dream.' (iu/- 'good')
(99) lalakw
apulakits
'I had a sad dream, bad dream.' (hkw
- 'sad, poor')
Nitinat examples with cognate -'apt (also with reduplication) express a more
material content:
(100) bubuwacapl
'to dream about a deer' (buwac 'deer')
(101) quqiPacapl
'to dream about a person' (qiPac- 'person')
There is a semantically comparable Nootka suffix -'itut(also with reduplication),
but the cognate suffix may be -(q)apul 'to imitate, impersonate, represent . . . '.
Quileute also has a comparable suffix, -kw
sil. Since Kwakiutl seems, on the
other hand, to lack a parallel formative suffix for predications explicitly about
dreaming, it appears very possible that such a suffix may have been the source of
this evidential.
SUMMARY
The evidentials among the formative suffixes give rather specific indications of
physical evidence or evidence from sensory modalities, and most of them are
etymologically or descriptively related to suffixes with nominal, verbal, or de-
scriptive values. Their evidential function can be seen to arise from a kind of
semantic subordination, where the focus of the predication shifts from the suffix
26
There is another Kwakiutl suffix, -xslaak" 'apparently, seemingly, it seems like', which is said
to also mean 'in a dream' in the Koskimo dialect (Boas 1947:245, 371).
Jacobsen: The Heterogeneity of Evidentials in Makah 25
to the stem, the suffix coming to provide merely a kind of epistemological
orientation.
The evidentials among the incremental suffixes that occur with indicative
pronominal endings also have relatively concrete and specific meanings, apply-
ing to evidence obtained approximately at the time of speaking. Incremental
evidential suffixes taking nonindicative pronominal endings, on the other hand,
express more diffuse evidence that may be more distant in time.
For both formative and incremental suffixes we have discussed semantically
defined subsets of paradigmatically opposed suffixes. Evidentials, in other
words, are not a morphologically unitary or distinct category in Makah.
REFERENCES
Andrade, Manuel J. 1933. Quileute. Handbook of American Indian languages, Part 3, ed. by Franz
Boas, 149-292. Gliickstadt and New York: J. J. Augustin.
Azkue, Resurecciôn Maria de. 1923-5. Morfologïa vasca. Euskera 4.i-viii, 1-404, 5.405-804,
6.805-930. (Also published separately, 1925. Bilbao: Editorial Vasca.)
Bloomfield, Leonard. 1933. Language. New York: Henry Holt and Company.
1962. The Menomini language. New Haven and London: Yale University Press.
Boas, Franz. 1900. Sketch of the Kwakiutl language. American Anthropologist 2.708-21. (Re-
printed in The shaping of American anthropology 1883-1911: A Franz Boas reader, ed. by
George W. Stocking, Jr. New York: Basic Books, Inc. 1974.)
1911a. Introduction. Boas, ed. 1911:1-83.
1911b. Kwakiutl. Boas, ed. 1911:423-557.
1938. Language. General anthropology, ed. by Franz Boas, 124-45. Boston: D. C. Heath
and Company.
1942. Language and culture. Studies in the history of culture: The disciplines of the
humanities, 178-84. Menasha, WI: The George Banta Publishing Co.
1947. Kwakiutl grammar, with a glossary of the suffixes. Transactions of the American
Philosophical Society 37(3).201-377.
, ed. 1911. Handbook of American Indian languages, Part 1. (Smithsonian Institution,
Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 40.) Washington: Government Printing Office.
Bolinger, Dwight. 1975. Aspects of language. 2nd ed. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.
Campbell, Lyle, and Marianne Mithun, eds. 1979. The languages of native America: Historical and
comparative assessment. Austin and London: University of Texas Press.
Carlson, Barry F., and John Thomas. 1979. The Nitinaht inferential. Anthropological Linguistics
21.317-27.
Chafe, Wallace L. 1970. Meaning and the structure of language. Chicago and London: The Univer-
sity of Chicago Press.
1979. Caddoan. Campbell and Mithun, eds. 1979:213-35.
°e Rijk, Rudolf P. G. 1969. Is Basque an S. O. V. language? Fontes linguae vasconum 1.319-51.
1972. Partitive assignment in Basque. Anuario del Seminario de Filologia Vasca 'Julio de
Urquijo' 6.130-73.
•reeland, L. S. 1951. Language of the Sierra Miwok. Indiana University Publications in An-
thropology and Linguistics. (International Journal of American Linguistics, Memoir 6.) Bal-
timore: Waverly Press, Inc.
"a
as, Mary R. 1941. Tunica. Handbook of American Indian languages, Vol. 4, 1-143. New York:
J. J. Augustin.
26 Evidentiaiity in North and South America
1946. A grammatical sketch of Tunica. Hoijer et al. 1946:337-66.
1969. Internal reconstruction of the Noofka-Nitinat pronominal suffixes. International
Journal of American Linguistics 35.108-24.
1972. The structure of stems and roots in Nootka-Nitinat. International Journal of Ameri-
can Linguistics 38.83-92.
Hall, Robert A., Jr. 1964. Introductory linguistics. Philadelphia: Chilton Books.
Hockett, Charles F. 1958. A course in modern linguistics. New York: The Macmillan Company.
Hoijer, Harry. 1946. Tonkawa. Hoijer et al. 1946:289-311.
1954. Some problems of American Indian linguistic research. Papers from the Symposium
on American Indian Linguistics held at Berkeley July 7, 1951, 3-12. (University of Califor-
nia Publications in Linguistics, 10.) Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California
Press.
Hoijer, Harry, et al. 1946. Linguistic structures of native America. (Viking Fund Publications in
Anthropology, 6.) New York: The Viking Fund.
Jacobsen, William H., Jr. 1964. A grammar of the Washo language. University of California,
Berkeley dissertation.
1969. Origin of the Nootka pharyngeals. International Journal of American Linguistics
35.125-53.
1973. The pattern of Makah pronouns. Paper presented to the Eighth International Con-
ference on Salish Languages, Eugene.
1979a. Noun and verb in Nootkan. The Victoria Conference on Northwestern Languages,
ed. by Barbara S. Efrat, 83-155. (British Columbia Provincial Museum Heritage Record, 4.)
Victoria: British Columbia Provincial Museum.
1979b. Wakashan comparative studies. Campbell and Mithun, eds. 1979:766-91.
1979c. Chimakuan comparative studies. Campbell and Mithun, eds. 1979:792-802.
1980. Metaphors in Makah neologisms. Proceedings of the Sixth Annual Meeting of the
Berkeley Linguistics Society, February 16-18, 1980, ed. by Bruce R. Caron et al., 166-79.
Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Jakobson, Roman. 1944. Franz Boas' approach to language. International Journal of American
Linguistics 10.188-95. (Reprinted in Jakobson 1971:477-88.)
1957. Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. Cambridge, Mass.: Department of
Slavic Languages and Literatures, Harvard University. (Reprinted in Jakobson 1971:130-
47.)
1959. Boas' view of grammatical meaning. The anthropology of Franz Boas: Essays on the
centennial of his birth, ed. by Walter Goldschmidt, 139-45. (American Anthropological
Association, Memoir 89.) (Reprinted in Jakobson 1971:489-96.)
1971. Selected writings 2: Word and language. The Hague and Paris: Mouton.
Jespersen, Otto. 1924. The philosophy of grammar. London: George Allen & Unwin Ltd.
Klokeid, Terry J. 1968. Linguistic acculturation in Nitinat. Paper presented to the Third International
Conference on Salish Languages, Victoria.
1976. Encliticization in Nitinaht. Working papers for the XI International Conference on
Salishan Languages, August 12-14, 1976, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,
compiled by Carol M. Eastman and Robert L. Welsch, 211-46. Seattle: Department of
Anthropology, University of Washington.
1978. Surface structure constraints and Nitinaht enclitics. Linguistic structures of native
Canada, ed. by Eung-Do Cook and Jonathan Kaye, 157-76. Vancouver: University of
British Columbia Press.
Lafitte, Pierre. 1962. Grammaire basque (Navarro-labourdin littéraire). Revised ed. Bayonne: Edi-
tions des 'Amis du Musée Basque' et 'Ikas'.
Lee, Dorothy Demetracopoulou. 1938. Conceptual implications of an Indian language. Philosophy
of Science 5.89-102.
Jacobsen: The Heterogeneity of Evidential in Makah 27
1944. Linguistic reflection of Wintu-'thought. International Journal of American Lin-
guistics 10.181-7. (Reprinted in Lee 1959:121-30.)
1950. Notes on the conception of the self among the Wintu Indians. The Journal of
Abnormal and Social Psychology 45.538-43. (Reprinted in Lee 1959:131-40.)
1959. Freedom and culture. (Spectrum Books S-6.) Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall.
Lyons, John. 1968. Introduction to theoretical linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Munro, Pamela. 1978. Chemehuevi 'say' and the Uto-Aztecan quotative pattern. Selected papers
from the 14th Great Basin Anthropological Conference, ed. by Donald R. Tuohy, 149-71.
(Ballena Press Publications in Archaeology, Ethnology and History, 11.) Socorro, New
Mexico: Ballena Press.
Pinnow, Heinz-Jurgen. 1964. Die nordamerikanischen Indianersprachen: Ein Ùberblick iiber ihren
Bau und ihre Besonderheiten. Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz.
Powell, J. V., and Fred Woodruff, Sr. 1976. Quileute dictionary. (Northwest Anthropological
Research Notes, Memoir 3.) Moscow, Idaho.
Sapir, Edward. 1911. Some aspects of Nootka language and culture. American Anthropologist
13.15-28.
1921. Language: An introduction to the study of speech. New York: Harcourt, Brace and
Co.
1922. Takelma. Handbook of American Indian Languages, Part 2, ed. by Franz Boas, 1-
296. (Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 40.) Washington:
Government Printing Office.
1923. Text analyses of three Yana dialects. University of California Publications in Ameri-
can Archaeology and Ethnology 20.263-94.
1924. The rival whalers, a Nitinat story (Nootka text with translation and grammatical
analysis). International Journal of American Linguistics 3.76-102.
Sapir, Edward, and Morris Swadesh. 1939. Nootka texts: Tales and ethnological narratives, with
grammatical notes and lexical materials. Philadelphia: Linguistic Society of America.
1960. Yana dictionary. Ed. by Mary R. Haas. (University of California Publications in
Linguistics, 22.) Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Sherzer, Joel F. 1968. An areal-typological study of the American Indian languages north of
Mexico. University of Pennsylvania dissertation.
• 1976. An areal-typological study of American Indian languages north of Mexico. (North-
Holland Linguistic Series, 20.) Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company. [Revised
version of Sherzer 1968.]
Shipley, William F. 1964. Maidu grammar. (University of California Publications in Linguistics,
41.) Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Swadesh, Morris. 1933. The internal economy of the Nootka word. Yale University dissertation.
1939. Nootka internal syntax. International Journal of American Linguistics 9.77-102.
[Revised version of Swadesh 1933.]
1948. A structural trend in Nootka. Word 4.106-19.
Thompson, Laurence C. 1979. Salishan and the Northwest. Campbell and Mithun, eds. 1979:692-
765.
Trask, Robert L. 1981. Basque verbal morphology. Euskalarien nazioarteko jardunaldiak, 285-304.
(Iker, 1.) Bilbao: Euskaltzaindia.
Weinreich, Uriel. 1963. On the semantic structure of language. Universals of language, ed. by
Joseph H. Greenberg, 114-71. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Whorf, Benjamin Lee. 1938. Some verbal categories of Hopi. Language 14.275-86. (Reprinted in
Whorf 1956c: 112-24.)
1946. The Hopi language, Toreva dialect. Hoijer et al. 1946:158-83.
1956a. A linguistic consideration of thinking in primitive communities. Whorf 1956c:65-
86. [Written about late 1936.]
28 Evidentially in North and South America
1956b. Language: Plan and conception of arrangement. Whorf 1956c:125-33. [Originally
circulated in 1938.]
1956c. Language, thought, and reality: Selected writings of Benjamin Lee Whorf. Edited
by John B. Carroll. New York: The Technology Press of MIT and John Wiley and Sons, Inc.
Wilbur, Terence H. 1981. Basque syntax. Euskalarien nazioarteko jardunaldiak, 169-86. (Iker, 1.)
Bilbao: Euskaltzaindia.
TWO
The Evidential System
of Kashaya
Robert L. Oswalt
California Indian Language Center
I INTRODUCTION
Kashaya1
is one of seven languages of the Pomo family, all native to northern
California. The three most closely related—Kashaya, Southern Pomo, and Cen-
tral Pomo (about as divergent one from another as Spanish, Italian, and
French)—share a cognate set of evidential verbal suffixes, elements which ex-
press the means by which the speaker has learned whereof he speaks. The
systems in these three languages rank among the most elaborated and discrimi-
nating of any in the world; descriptions of the Pomo languages other than these
three do not reveal as complex a development.2
The evidential suffixes of Ka-
shaya, Southern Pomo, and Central Pomo are close to a "pure play"; most are
solely evidentials and are not detectably related to, or derivative from, anything
else within the three languages. This is in contrast to many of the elements
1
Most of the Kashaya material on which this paper is based was collected in the summers 1957—
1961, in the course of fieldwork sponsored by the Survey of California Indian Languages, Depart-
ment of Linguistics, University of California, Berkeley. Later work among the Southern and Central
Pomo, in the period 1965-68, was assisted by the National Science Foundation, Grants GS-711 and
GS-1463.
Example sentences are identified by a preceding S plus a number which is incremented sequen-
tially through the entire body of the chapter. Some of the example sentences are from a published
source, Kashaya Texts (Oswalt, 1964); these are cited with the abbreviation KT followed by text,
paragraph, and sentence numbers.
2
Table 1 shows suffixes for Kashaya evidentials. Of the suffixes in the table, the two with
reflexes most widely distributed in the Pomo languages are *-do Quotative and *-ya Visual (although
this latter is apparently not always limited to a visual meaning). The cognate sets are given in Oswalt
(1976:25). The data therein on the Western Pomo languages are from my own fieldwork; that on
Eastern Pomo from McLendon's dissertation (published in 1975); that on Southeastern Pomo from
Tushinsky's dissertation (published in 1974).
29
30 Evidentially in North and South America
described for other languages, for which the evidential function is often pe-
ripheral to, or derived from, some other use.
2. LINGUISTIC PRELIMINARIES
2.1 Overview
The system of Kashaya evidentials is presented in Table 1. The suffixes are
divided into three groups by horizontal lines extending the full width of the chart.
The first division, with six suffixes named in the leftmost column, applies in
general to events or states perceived directly by the speaker but also includes
general truths and inferences based on circumstantial, although directly ob-
served, evidence (Sections 3.0-3.6). The second division consists of one suffix,
-do, for information the speaker has learned from someone else (Section 3.7).
These first two divisions constitute the main part of the system, and the suffixes
in them are mutually exclusive—only one can appear on any one verb. The third
division consists of one suffix, -bi- (Section 3.8). It is notionally an evidential,
having an inferential meaning, but is different in that it is necessarily followed by
some other suffix, which may be certain of the core evidentials.
The first five lines of suffixes are concerned with evidence acquired at the
time and place of the event and are not compatible with the future tense or
uncertainty. The suffixes on the bottom three lines, the two Inferentials and the
Quotative, concern evidence acquired apart from the event and can co-occur in a
Table 1. Kashaya Evidentials
Spontaneous
Responsive
(with
Suffix -m")
Narrative Remote
Performative (Imperfective) -wela -wâ
-yowà -miyâ
Performative (Perfective) -mela -yâ
-yowà -miyâ
Factual (Imperfective) -wâ
-yowà -miyâ
Visual (Perfective) -yâ
-yowà -miyâ
Auditory -Vnnâ
-yowà -miyâ
Inferential I -qà
-yowà -miyâ
Quotative -do
Inferential II -bi-
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 31
sentence with a future tense. The significance of the vertical order in the table
will be discussed further below.
Before the detailed description and exemplification of the evidential suffixes,
it is necessary to give some preliminary information on Kashaya phonemics and
morphophonemics and on several elements and features which are important to
the operation of the system: the Assertive verb, the Absolutive suffix, Aspect,
and the Spontaneous, Responsive, and Narrative modes (which pertain to the
different columns in Table 1).
2.2 Phonemics
The Kashaya language has five vowels, a, e, i, o, u; vowel length, •; and pitch
accent, '. The consonants include three complete series of stops in six posi-
tions—labial, dental, alveolar, palatal, velar, uvular—symbolized in the plain
series by p, t, t, c, k, q; in the aspirated series by the same symbols plus a
superscript h
{ph
, etc.); and in the glottalized series by the same series plus a
superscript comma (p, etc.). Voiced stops and nasals occur only in the labial and
alveolar positions b, d, m, n; other résonants are w, y, I; sibilants s, š; glottalized
affricate s; and laryngeals h, "*.
The forms at the head end of arrows and most full word and sentence exam-
ples are in a surface phonemic representation. The constituent boundaries of
some of the surface forms are marked by hyphenation, although the fusion
between neighboring elements may be so great as to preclude strict delimitation,
except in a morphophonemic representation.
2.3 Morphophonemics
The segmented forms at the tail end of arrows, and the suffixes in Table 1 and in
isolation in the text, are in an underlying morphophonemic representation
(marked by a preceding • ) . The special symbols used in representing the suffix-
es are as follows:
w symbolizes an alternation between 0 after a stem ending in a conso-
nant and w after a vowel: cad-wela —
» cadela 'I see,' versus miti-wela
—
» mitiwéla 'I am lying (down)'.
V symbolizes 0 after a vowel, and various vowels determined by a
preceding consonant: u after d, o after a uvular preceded by o, a after
labials and uvulars elsewhere, and i after other consonants.
d symbolizes 0 before a word-boundary and most vowels, and lal
before certain suffixes. Even when it is realized phonemically as 0, a
can be detected as being morphophonemically present when a preced-
ing syllable has a long vowel: bûe°l-wâ-* biïe-l 'is sewing'; without
the à, the word would end in a consonant in its underlying form and
the preceding vowel would become short. Underlying plain stops be-
come aspirated stops before an a that becomes 0 before word bound-
ary (see S8) and this too is different from the development of the same
32 Evidentially in North and South America
underlying plain stops directly before word boundary—in this latter
situation they all become a phonemic glottal stop ?.
A complete statement of the alternations in the verb stems is not possible in a
short paper, but occasional formulaic explanations are given along with some of
the early examples.
2A Assertive
The Assertive can be the main verb 'be' in simple assertions but also has several
specialized auxiliary uses, one of which is of great importance in the operation of
the evidential system. The Assertive verb is enclitic (marked by a preceding = in
the examples) and thus cannot appear initially in a sentence, although it can
appear almost anywhere else. When followed by additional suffixes, it has the
form =? after words ending in a vowel and =i after consonants, with glottaliza-
tion of preceding plain stops.
In Kashaya, there are a very large number of mutually exclusive suffixes,
some of which (including the evidentials) form finite verbs, while others form
subordinated verbs. However, a clause whose principal verb has some suffix
other than an evidential may have an evidential introduced into it with the
Assertive as a "dummy" carrier of the additional suffix. This allows the eviden-
tials which are not specifically present-past to be introduced into a clause with a
future tense, and it allows certain evidentials to be introduced into subordinate
clauses (which would otherwise normally be assumed to have the same eviden-
tiality as the superordinate clause). In the narrative construction (Section 2.9), it
serves as the carrier of the evidential, while the main verb is placed in the
Absolutive.
2.5 Absolutive
The Absolutive has multiple functions: citation form of verbs, gerund, participle
(active and passive), and the main verb of sentences in the narrative construction.
It also provides an escape from the evidential system. Sentences elicited from
English with third person agents are often given in the Absolutive since the
translator may have no clue to the type of evidence involved. However, if the
translator pictures a situation in which he would use the sentence, he will often
supply an evidential suffix.
The Absolutive has the allomorphs -w after a vowel stem, -u after d, -?
after a
resonant, and 0 after any other consonant. Stem-final stops become ? when this
suffix is 0.
2.6 Aspect
Some Kashaya verb roots and stems are innately imperfective and refer to a state
or a continuing or repeated act. Others are innately perfective and refer to a
-:—1„ „h^rt crt nr t o o n e m0rnent of a longer act. Still others are aspectless and
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 33
indifferent to the distinction. There are suffixes that form derived stems, convert-
ing from one aspect to the other.
Aspect is important to two pairs of suffixes, the Performative pair and the
Factual-Visual pair. Perfective stems can be suffixed only by the perfective
members of these pairs; imperfective stems only by the imperfective members.
Aspectless stems can be suffixed by either member of the pairs and then the
aspectual distinction is carried by the suffix. The other evidential suffixes have
no such contrast and any aspectual information would have to be shown by the
preceding stem. With negative verbs (formed by a suffix that precedes the
evidential suffix) there is a collapse of the aspectual distinction; negative verbs
accept only the imperfective suffixes of the pairs, whether the stem without the
negative suffix is imperfective, perfective, or aspectless.
2.7 Spontaneous remarks
When a remark is spontaneous or prompted by the event or state being described
(and not as part of a continuing discussion or conversation), then the suffixes
show the maximum discrimination in types of evidence, and are those in the
leftmost column of Table 1. No other suffix is added if the verb is final in its
clause; if it is not, a suffix called NONFINAL VERB is necessary: -a- after -qâ, -e-
after other instances of -a, • (vowel length) after other vowels.
Since it is usually the event or state itself that induces the act of speech, a
present or immediate past tense is implied. The aspect of the verb stem or of the
suffix has a great deal to do with the tense of translation. A perfective act would
most frequently be one completed just before the act of speaking; English 'just'
plus the past or present perfect tense would then be a good translation (S2, S9,
Sll), but the tense could be at an earlier time in a properly supporting context,
even as English, 'A car just ran off that cliff,' would normally imply a moment
earlier, but the time of 'just' is stretchable with an adverb like 'last week'. An
imperfective act is often one going on at the moment of speaking (SI, S8, S13),
but, in the proper context, it too could be one that continued at an earlier time.
2.8 Responsive
When a remark is prompted not by the state or event being talked about, but by
the words of someone else—that is, by a question or in the give and take of
conversation—the Responsive construction is required: -m suffixed to the verb
with the evidential and a rising intonation at the end of the sentence (marked "),
and often with the particle ta somewhere in the sentence (Examples S7, S28).
This construction occurs with all the evidential except the Performative pair
(Section 3.1). The tense tends to be intermediate past, since the matters dis-
cussed in conversations tend not to be immediate and present.
2.9 Narrative
If the topic of discussion shifts to happenings more remote in time and one speaker
comes to dominate a stretch of discourse with some account, the radically different
34 EvidentiaIity in North and South America
narrative construction comes into use, with a simplification of the evidential
distinctions to two: Personal Experience (Section 3.5) and the Quotative (Section
3.7). What is semantically the main verb is put in the Absolutive (2.5) and the
evidential is suffixed to a 'dummy' verb, the Assertive (2.4). The combination
is postpositive, appearing almost anywhere in the sentence except initially, but it is
preponderantly placed after the first word of the sentence. That first word is
usually a sentence connector like mul 'that, then' (S25, S27, S33), moRu 'this,
now', men 'thus', mensiba 'having done so (with a continuation of the agent of the
preceding sentence)', mensi-li 'having done so (with a switch in agent)', etc.
3. THE SUFFIXES
3.0 Direct Evidence
Since almost all the suffixes in the first division (above the Quotative line in
Table 1) end in the morphophoneme -a, one could segment these into two parts
and label the final -a as a morpheme which designates events or states perceived,
by some means, directly by the speaker. In fact, this -a could be identified as the
Factual suffix -wâ; since in collocations such as -y-wà, -Vnn-wâ, and -q-wà, the
-w- follows a consonant and can never surface and be realized phonemically as
anything but 0. In the narrative construction, the -yowâ of personal experience is
more clearly identifiable as containing -wâ Factual added to an element -yo-,
which terminates in a vowel. However, since none of the prior components of
these indicators of direct evidence occur apart from the -â, these possibly com-
pound suffixes are treated as units in the following discussion. It should be kept
in mind that in most occurrences of these suffixes the -a is realized phonemically
as 0 (Section 2.3).
3.1 Performative Pair, -wela, -mela
The Performative3
suffixes signify that the speaker knows of what he speaks
because he is performing the act himself or has just performed it. The subject, of
course, is always the first person, singular or plural, but I prefer not to classify
this pair simply as first person endings because the category of person is not
developed in the Kashaya verb, occurring only incidentally, as when the Imper-
ative suffixes are second person. The evidentials, on the other hand, are a well-
developed category. As a conversational interchange develops from the opening
remarks, the Performative pair drops out of use, replaced by the all-person
Factual-Visual pair, and thus this incidental first person distinction is lost in the
verb and carried solely by independent pronouns.
3
The term Performative for this pair was chosen about 1959 and used in A Kashaya Grammar
(Oswalt 1961) before its use in speech act studies, in a different sense, was widespread. There is a
contrast in application: the Performative here is a verbal suffix, the speech act term applies to a type
of verb or larger unit.
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 35
It would seem that the shared element -ela is the morpheme for the Per-
formative. One might then postulate that the initial elements, -w- and -m-, are
imperfective and perfective markers. These initials cannot convincingly be iden-
tified morphemically with anything else in the language. A claim that the -w- of
-wela is the Factual suffix would be difficult to support—a number of diverse
suffixes begin with -w- and a fair case could be made that it developed pho-
nologically as a glide to separate the vowel of the preceding stem from the vowel
of the suffix (there are no vowel clusters in the language). As for -m-, it is a
common verbal suffix, most frequently forming derivative verbs of state, all
imperfective, quite different from the perfective use of -mela.
The final -a of the Performative pair differs from the final -a of the other
suffixes of direct experience in that it always surfaces as a phonemic -a and is
never 0 before word boundary.
The first three examples below are with a verb root indifferent to the aspectual
distinction:
(51) Performative-Imperfective: aqowa°q-wela —* qowd-qala.
'I am packing (a suitcase).' e —
> alq(w) .
(52) Performative-Perfective: nqowa°q-mela —
» qowâhmela.
'I just packed.' q —> hi m, th
, y.
(53) Performative-Negative: aqowa°q-th
-wela —* qowâhth
ela.
'I am not packing, I haven't packed.'
There is no negative form with -mela.
That a perfective statement can be made during the moment of an act is
illustrated by the word in (S4), commonly used in the situation in which an
English speaker says 'Good-bye'.
(54) cohtoc-mela —
> coht6ch
mela.
'I am leaving.'
There is no *cohtocéla because cohtoc- is innately perfective; an imperfective
stem can be derived from it, however, with the Durative suffix:
(55) cohtoc-Y'd-wela —
» cohtoct-dela.
'I am continuing to leave.'
That the act itself need not have just happened is illustrated by the following
textual example in which the sight of the children of a man killed years earlier
has brought forth the spontaneous statement:
(S6) (KT7:7.4) mi-li ?a me-^e-l ph
akûm-mela.
there-VISIBLE I your-father-OBJ. kill-PERFORM.
'Right there 1 killed your father.'
36 Evidentially in North and South America
As an example of a response to a remark by someone else there is
(S7) hû-?~ men si - ya - m ta "*a".
Yes. thus do - VISUAL - RESP. I.
'Yes, I have done that.'
Here, the Visual suffix takes over in the Responsive mode for the Performative.
Although men si'mela (without the Responsive suffix) 'I have done that' is
normal as an isolated remark, *men simelam (with the Responsive) does not
occur.
3.2 Factual-Visual Pair, -wâ, -yà
The suffix labeled Factual is imperfective and that labeled Visual is perfective;
the two form a complementary pair, as did the Performative pair, and signify that
the speaker knows of what he speaks because he sees, or saw, it. However, in
addition to this application to specific events, the Factual (not the Visual) also
applies to classes of actions or states which have been observed enough by the
speaker for him to generalize them as true and to classes which may simply be
common knowledge.
(58) Factual (Imperfective): aqowcfq-wâ —
* qowâ-qh
.
'(I see) he is packing.'
There is no segment in the surface form of (S8) that can be said to be the Factual,
but its presence is shown by the vowel length in the final surface syllable and by
the realization of the stem-final consonant as an aspirate (Cf. Section 2.3).
(59) Visual (Perfective): aqowa°q-yâ —* qowahy.
'(I just saw) he packed, I just saw him pack.'
(510) Negative: aqowa°q-th
-(wa ?) —
» qowahth
.
'(I see/saw) he isn't packing/he hasn't packed.'
Whether the underlying form in (S10) actually contains the -wâ suffix cannot be
told from the surface result as -wâ would end up 0 and there would be no effect
on the preceding stem. There is no negative with the -yd suffix.
The following is an example of a verb stem made perfective by the suffix
-ma°c- 'in hence' added to the root Omo- 'run'.
(511) \yno-ma°c-yâ —
* momâ-y.
'(I just saw) he ran in.'
c - » • / f\ y.
The above verb stem can be suffixed only by -yd, not by -wd. However, in the
negative, the stem cannot be suffixed by -yd, (only by -wd ?).
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 3 7
(512) \yno-ma°c-th
-(-wâ ?) —* momâ-th
.
'(I saw) he didn't run in.'
The following can be interpreted as the general truth use of the Factual or as a
specific action that was seen.
(513) Mhta=yach
ma cahno-w.
bird=PL.SUBJ. sound-FACTUAL
'Birds sing', or '(I see/saw) birds are/were singing.'
There is an additional type of ambiguity with verb stems which end in a vowel.
In (S13), the verb is interpreted as containing the Factual: cahno-wâ—* cahnow.
The Absolutive form (Section 2.5) would also give the same phonemic result:
cahno-w —
> cahnow. Thus (SI3) can also be interpreted as an abstract gerund
'singing of birds' or as an evidence-less past 'Birds sang'. If further suffixes are
added to the verb (not possible with the Absolutive), the ambiguity disappears.
For example, the Responsive form cahnowam can only contain the Factual '(I
see/saw) the birds are/were singing', or 'Birds sing'. With stems ending in a
consonant, the ambiguity also does not exist, as the Absolutive form is quite
different: In (S8), qowa-qh
is the Factual form, the Absolutive would be
\3qowa°q-0 —
* qowa?.
3.3 Auditory, -Vnnà
The Auditory4
suffix signifies that the speaker knows of what he speaks because
he heard the sound of the action, but did not see it. It is indifferent to aspectual
distinctions:
(514) Imperfective: tyno-rd-Vnnâ—> mo-dun.
'I hear/heard someone running along.'
(515) Perfective: \yno-ma°c-Vnnâ —
> momâ-cin.
'I just heard someone run in.'
4
I previously termed this suffix the Aural, which in my dialect of English is distinct in pronun-
ciation from Oral. The conversion to Auditory is made here to avoid what are homonyms to many
English speakers.
Apparent cognate suffixes are Southern Porno (one dialect only) -VrPda and Central Pomo
-Vnme-. The sound correspondences are not regular and would seem to indicate that the forms are of
compound origin and that Kashaya -Vnnâ has developed -nn- as a simplification of a cluster of -«-
Plus some other consonant.
It is interesting to note that of the two surviving dialects of Southern Pomo only one
(Mihilakawna) has an Auditory suffix and this dialect has a concomitant feature not known in the
other dialect (Makahmo), nor reported for any other Pomo language: a demonstrative no- 'that'
applying only to what is heard but not seen (for example, a mouse). Most Pomo languages do have a
distinction in demonstratives between what is seen and what is not seen.
38 Evidentiality in North and South America
A contrast between a spontaneous remark and a response has been recorded in a
natural conversation:
(516) (KT76:6.1) hayu câhno-n.
'I hear a dog barking.'
This example opens the conversation, while the following lies in a continuation.
(517) (KT76:6.4) . . . mu hayu cdhno-nna-m".
'[. . . That's why] we hear the dog(s) barking.'
I have found no naturally occurring examples of the Negative Auditory, but
elicitation shows its existence:
(518) aqowa°q-th
-Vnnâ —* qowah^in.
'He is not packing, he did not pack—as indicated by a lack of the sound of
packing.'
3.4 Inferential I, -qà
Most commonly -qâ, which is indifferent to aspectual distinctions, marks an
inference based on circumstances or evidence found apart, in space or time, from
the actual event or state. In this use it overlaps semantically with Inferential II
(Section 3.8).
(519) arnu cohtoc-qà —
» mu cohtoch
qh
.
'He must have left, he has left.' (Said on discovering that the person is no
longer present; the leaving itself was not seen [that would be cohta-y], nor
heard [cohtocin].)
To a certain extent -qà is a default category for evidence through senses other
than those that have specific sensory suffixes (Visual and Auditory). Thus it is
possible to say, on coming into a house and detecting an odor,
(520) cuhni- tmP\a-qh
.
'Bread has been cooked.'
But indication of olfactory or tactile evidence by such means is fairly unspecific;
greater specificity would have to be shown with a separate verb of perception:
(521) cuhni- mu^la mihsew.
'It smells like cooked bread.'
The Kashaya Inferential suffix implies no lack of certainty, merely lack of
higher ranking evidence. It appears in many situations in which English would
not normally use its near equivalent 'must have':
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 39
(522) kalikakh
dima- si-qa-c-qh
.
book holding make-cause-self-INFER.
'He has had a picture taken of himself holding a book.'
The existence of the picture (which is seen) is the evidence that one was taken
(which act was not seen). (The verb si- 'do, make' is understood in diis colloca-
tion to refer to taking a photograph.)
(523) (KT33:10.2) 'hé>én ši-n =i-wa ma
How do-ing =QUEST you
' "Why did you not guard [her]?"
mace--th
i-qa-tn" nihced-u mace-=yac-ol.
guard-NEG.-INF.-RESP. say-ABS. guard=person-OBJ.
[someone] said to the guard.'
The lack of guarding was not seen but is inferred to have been the case because
the prisoner is gone.
Given below is an example of -qâ introduced into a clause with a future tense
(in a collocation that means 'not able to') by means of the Assertive (described in
Section 2.4). Here the evidence comes before the predicted failure of an attempt:
(524) (KT8:13.1) he?en ya mihyac-We-tHn
How we win-FUT.-not
=i-q-a- mu-kito baqo=-li.
=ASS.-INF.-NONFINAL him what=in.
'It appears we'll never be able to beat him in anything. '
3.5 Personal Experience, -yowà
In narratives and in the narrative construction (Section 2.9), all of the evidentials
described so far are replaced by the one suffix -yowà. As stated in Section 3.0,
the final -wâ is identifiable with the Factual -wâ, added to an element -yo-, which
°ccurs only with -wâ.5
Since the sequence is rarely final in its clause, it rarely
a
Ppears without the additional suffix -e- that marks verbs which are not final in
their clause.
This -yo- is not related to the Visual suffix -yd. In the Southern Porno language there is a
gnate enclitic verb = ,
yo-, which occurs in the narrative construction but with a greater variety of
^Klential suffixes than the one of Kashaya: =?yo-wa Personal Experience, =?yo-*a Inferential,
yo-do Quotative, etc. In Central Pomo, the apparent cognate is yd- 'go', which usually occurs
ltn
preposed directional adverbs: bol yarn.' 'Go west!'
40 Evidentiality in North and South America
(525) mul =i-yow-e- hayu câhno-w.
then =ASS.-P.E.-NONFINAL dog sound-ABS.
'Then (I saw, heard, judged) the dog barked.'
Occasionally the Responsive suffix appears in the narrative construction; that
is, a form like muliyowam (S33) will be used instead of muliyowe-. No meaning
difference has been elicitable, but one might surmise that the use of the Respon-
sive in a story is a way of including the listener in the discourse, perhaps even
inviting comments, although none need be forthcoming.
The simplification in narratives of the elaborateness of the evidential system is
understandable—when one talks of events that may have happened a consider-
able time previously, the precise type of evidence is less important and, indeed,
is often not remembered by the speaker. It is, of course, always possible to state
the type of evidence through a verb of perception. The distinction of Inferential I
also appears to be usually submerged in -yowâ, but it is also often reintroduced
through Inferential II (Section 3.8).
3.6 Remote Past, -miyâ
The final part of this suffix is presumably the Visual suffix -yd. The element -mi-
does not occur apart from the combination, although it does occur duplicated to
-mimiyâ (perhaps with an intensification of the meaning). The suffix -miyâ is
archaic, known only to the very oldest speakers (those born before 1910), and
seldom used by them. It is not recognized by most younger speakers except in
certain fixed forms. It seems to apply most often to personal experiences of the
speaker in the remote past, say in the youth of an old person. In some cases it
may apply to a less remote time but still to a past that is irretrievable, perhaps
because the participants are dead, or because the world has changed so much
over the years. In almost all of the situations in which it would seem suitable by
this definition, -yowâ, the more general past of personal experience, is used
instead. All examples of -miyâ have it suffixed to the main verb and not dis-
placed in the narrative construction, as is usual with -yowâ.
(526) men si- ypcp- th
i-miy.
thus do-PL.HABITUAL-NEG.-REMOTE
'They never used to do that in the old days.'
3.7 Quotative, -do
The term Quotative is a traditional one in Americanist usage for a typological
feature that is widespread in the native languages of North America. In Kashaya
the Quotative is the one evidential for information learned from someone else,
contrasted with the many for information learned through the speaker's own
experience. It does not mark a direct or indirect quote of another's words; such
would be indicated by a separate verb {nichedu in (S23)). By far the most
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 41
common use of -do is in the narrative construction (Section 2.9), whether in
myths, traditional history, or some account the teller learned moments or years
before.
(527) mul =i-do- hayu câhno-w.
then =ASS.-QUOT.-NONFINAL dog sound-ABS.
'Then, they say, the dog barked.'
If what is being talked about has been learned from another, it can seldom
refer to the present or immediate past time, unless the event takes place else-
where. One such infrequent case is the following, from a conversation in the
Responsive mode:
(528) (KT76:19) me> mu mi- sikiihtime? = yach
ma
but that there drinking = people
?i-do-m ^uV.
be-QUOT.-RESP. already.
'But I was told the ones that drink are already there.'
The same conversation contains a combination of a future tense and -do intro-
duced into the sentence by means of the Assertive:
(529) (KT76:38) qacûhse hqamač-kh
e =?-do-m ta'.
grass game play-FUT. =ASS.-QUOT.-RESP.
'I was told they'll play the grass game.'
3.8 Inferential II, -bi-
The chief difference between -bi- and -qd inferential I is perhaps distributional;
-bi- is never verb-final but must be followed by some other suffix. It occurs in
four irregularly fused compound suffixes that form subordinate clauses: -bina
inference plus coreference of the agents of the subordinate and superordinate
clause; -bem inference with different agents in the two clauses; and -binati and
-beti, which add the meaning 'although' to the preceding pair. In (S30) there is a
similar type of inference in each clause, but different morphemes are involved
because one clause is subordinate to the other:
(530) diPku-bina cohtoch
-qh
.
finish II leave I.
'He must have finished and left (the work is done and he is no longer here).'
In (S31) only the subordinate clause contains an inference, which is probably
based on the visual evidence in the main clause:
(531) diPku-bina cohtô--y.
'He must have finished; (I just saw) he left.'
42 Evidentiality in North and South America
The most common nonsubordinating combination is -bi-w (where -w is proba-
bly the Absolutive), which designates evidence found after the event, and in this
it overlaps the range of -qâ. One difference is that -biw can be used for events or
states partially perceived by any means but which become more interprétable by
later evidence, a meaning captured by English 'turn out'. For example, if a
woman saw a man approaching but could not recognize him until he arrived,
then, in speaking of the incident, she might say
(S32) We hPbaya=">-bi-w.
My man=ASS.-II-ABS.
'It turned out to be my husband.'
Other occurring combinations are -bi-do (which sums the meanings of the
parts) and -bi-qa (no difference has been determined for the meaning of this form
versus either suffix separately). The other evidentials are not suffixed to -bi-.
4. AUXILIARY INFORMATION
4.1 Olher Sources of Information
Dreams, visions, and revelations are treated the same as ordinary waking-life
happenings. Thus, what is experienced therein is reported with -yowa; what is
told by some other being therein is reported with -do.
Knowledge acquired through various modern media—television, movies, ra-
dio, telephone, phonograph records, tape recordings, still pictures, writing—is
reported as follows:
1. Moving actions seen on television or in the movies: -wâ Factual, -yd Visu-
tal, or -yowa Personal Experience, with the choice made just as for actually
witnessed events and states.
2. Speech, whether contemporaneous or recorded long earlier: -do Quotative.
3. Nonspeech sounds of action heard but not seen (hoofbeats, etc.): -Vnna
Auditory.
4. Still pictures: A description of a static situation might be with -wâ Factual or
-yowa Personal Experience, but an interpretation or inference of action from
a still (The horse is running.') would be with -qâ Inferential I.
5. Writing, printed or handwritten: Most frequent is -qâ Inferential I, but -do
Quotative is also common. Presumably the use of -qâ is an extension of its
use in the interpretation of still pictures and, aboriginally, of the signs of
former actions, whether conventional and deliberate (a broken branch indi-
cating the direction a traveler has gone) or inadvertent (broken branches and
matted grass left in a struggle). The use of -do is an identification of written
speech with spoken.
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 43
4.2 Hierarchy
The evidentials lie in a hierarchy, and are so arranged in Table 1, such that those
that precede have priority over those that follow:
Performative > Factual-Visual > Auditory > Inferential > Quotative
This order would seem to be universal, even for languages like English that must
express most of the evidential concepts by separate verbs. Thus, someone speak-
ing of an act he himself is performing, or has performed, would not normally
attribute knowledge of that event to a lower type of evidence, unless, of course,
he is speaking in a detached way as an observer of his own actions. The rather
close relationship, in Kashaya, of the Performative and Factual-Visual is shown
by their merger in other than the spontaneous mode. That visual evidence rates
near the top is shown by its union in imperfective verbs, in Kashaya, with the
factual of general truths. At a lower stage in the hierarchy, a speaker of any
language would not normally say, 'I hear someone approaching the door' when
he can see the person approaching.
Kashaya, Southern, and Central Porno are apparently rare among the lan-
guages of the world in having an evidential for a specific nonvisual sense, the
Auditory, before reaching the lower stage at which there is lumping into one
class of the remaining kinds of sensory evidence. In Kashaya, this catch-all class
also happens to include inference on evidence found apart from the act. Inference
seems to lie at a borderline stage leading out of the domain of direct personal
evidence, attested by its co-occurrence (as either Inferential I or II) with the
Quotative.
It might be noted that, despite the hierarchy, all propositions with the Kashaya
evidentials are presented by the speaker as certain and true. However, the evi-
dentials themselves are at the top of a continuing hierarchy of modals expressing
increasing uncertainty on the part of the speaker. These include a Suppositional
suffix ('I suppose that . . .'), a Speculative ('I wonder if . . . ' ) , an Optative ('I
hope or wish that . . .'), and others.
4.3 Other Displays of Evidence
Besides the verb suffixal system, Kashaya has other ways of stating evidence.
There are adverbs (for example, ph
ikati 'visibly'), but this class is weakly
developed. There are phrases, such as 'with her own eyes' (in S34). And there is
a strongly developed class of verbs of perception. In certain situations, a verb of
perception would have to be used to make explicit the type of evidence. For
example, in the merged narrative construction, auditory evidence would have to
be specified through a separate verb:
(S33) (KT42:5.1) mul =i-yowa -m ?a- baqo=th
in loqo> s<P.
then = ASS.-P.E.-RESP. I what=not move hear.
'Then I heard something moving.'
44 Evidentially in North and South America
There are many features of Kashaya that help support an overt statement of
evidence. In (S33), besides the word scP 'hear', there is the verb loqcP, which
has the particularized meaning 'move of something unseen'.
With all of the suffixes above the Quotative line in Table 1, it is the speaker,
the first person, who experiences or perceives the described event or state, or the
circumstantial evidence thereof. To indicate, by means of the evidential system,
how a third person learned of some piece of information before passing it on to
the present speaker would require giving a direct quote of that other person's
message, and such a means is fairly common in stories (S23). With the
Quotative, there is no way to designate the one who provided the information to
the present speaker. That would have to be done through a separate sentence, and
it is quite customary for a story, which may have had the -do suffix in almost
every sentence, to end with explicit statements about the 'higher' subject of -do:
(S34) (KT63:12.5) md>û V man? to ?ama- dici-d-u ti-
this is she me thing tell-ABS. self
'This is what she told me she herself
cad-u", ti-?kh
e hiPû-=li cad-u.
see-ABS, self's eye=with see-ABS.
saw, saw with her own eyes.'
The Kashaya language, which is so rich in suffixes for the means by which
evidence is obtained, is, in common with the other Pomoan languages, even
richer in prefixes for the means by which an action is done: natural forces, body
parts, types of instruments and movements. When attached to a finely graded
series of roots for verbs of perception—'detect', 'detect faintly', 'be inured to
the sense', plus dozens more—the prefixes can indicate the organ that senses the
evidence in an intricate and discriminating way. But these prefixes constitute
another story.6
REFERENCES
Langdon, Margaret and Shirley Silver, eds. 1976. Hokan Studies, Papers from the First Conference
on Hokan Languages, held in San Diego, California, April 23-25, 1970 (Mouton).
McLendon, Sally. 1975. A Grammar of Eastern Pomo. (University of California Publications in
Linguistics, 74.) Berkeley: Department of Linguistics.
Moshinsky, Julius. 1974. A Grammar of Southeastern Pomo. (University of California Publications
in Linguistics, 72.) Berkeley; Department of Linguistics.
Oswalt, Robert L. 1961. A Kashaya grammar (Southwestern Pomo). University of California,
Berkeley, dissertation.
6
A detailed semantic description of si- 'water, drink, tongue', only one of twenty fully produc-
tive prefixes in Kashaya, is in Oswalt (1981). The twenty prefixes are listed and defined briefly in
that publication and are reconstructed for Proto-Pomo in Oswalt (1976).
Oswalt: The Evidential System of Kashaya 45
_. 1964. Kashaya texts. (University of California Publications in Linguistics, 36.) Berkeley:
Department of Linguistics.
_. 1976. Comparative verb morphology of Porno. Hokan studies, ed. by Margaret Langdon
and Shirley Silver. (Papers from the First Conference on Hokan Studies, San Diego, 1970.)
The Hague: Mouton.
_. 1981. On the semantically interlocking nature of the Kashaya verb prefixes: The case of si-
'water, drink, tongue'. Proceedings of the 1980 Hokan Languages Workshop, ed. by James
Redden. (Occasional Papers on Linguistics, 9.) Carbondale: Southern Illinois University.
THREE
The Origins and Deictic Nature
of Wintu Evidentials
Alice Schlichtcr
University of California, Berkeley
Wintu is an American Indian language spoken in aboriginal times in Shasta,
Trinity, and Siskiyou counties in northern California; it is now remembered by
about half a dozen speakers.1
In the 1930s and 40s Dorothy Lee published
several papers describing in Whorfian terms the interrelationships of aspects of
the Wintu language with the world view of its speakers, and succeeded in making
the language well-known for its evidential suffixes. Relying on her work as a
starting point, I will discuss and compare the evidentials in their synchronic
functions as deictic elements, argue for their relatively recent origin, and show
how they form a well-integrated part of the expression of Wintu concern with
knowledge of the world.2
THE EVIDENTIALS AND THEIR ORIGINS
Knowledge is not infallible. A speaker can believe in the truth of a statement he
makes but its truth does not logically follow from his belief. The only way to find
out if he is right is to examine the facts. With the evidential suffixes, the Wintu
speaker points to his evidence, inviting the addressee to verify it.
One of the four evidential suffixes of Wintu is the nonvisual sensorial eviden-
tial. It occurs in the shape -nth
e- verb-finally, before -m, the marker for du-
1
I am grateful to Wallace Chafe for valuable comments on earlier versions of this paper.
2
Data for this paper are from Lee (1938, 1941, 1943, 1944a, 1944b, 1950, and unpublished texts
on microfilms at the Survey of California and Other Indian Languages, Department of Linguistics,
University of California, Berkeley), Pitkin ( 1963), and my own Fieldwork supported by the Survey of
California and Other Indian Languages. I will be using Pitkin's terms for the evidentials unless
otherwise indicated. Note that Lee never used the term 'evidential.'
Schlichter: The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidentials 47
bitative and third person subject,3
and before -n, the short form of the suffix
indicating second person subject; its shape is -nfier before the interrogative
suffix -/•; -n^ere before the more formal marker for second person subject -sken;
and it occurs as -nM before -da and -k, the suffixes for first person subject and
completive, respectively. I will write this evidential morphophonemically as
-n^Er, representing the alternation i~e by the symbol E.4
-nth
Er is used if the
speaker wishes to indicate that the statement he is making describes a fact known
to him through one of his senses other than vision, i.e. his hearing, feeling, taste,
smell, touch, or any kind of intellectual experience of 'sixth sense.' It is used
when talking about the supernatural (Lee 1941), and for prophecy; for predicting
future events which are somehow felt as being imminent. -nfiEr could be called
'experiential' but I prefer to retain 'nonvisual sensorial' to distinguish it from the
experiential evidentials in other languages which include visual experience.
-nth
Er occurs most often with the imperfective aspect auxiliary bEy- (as
binfie-m in example (1), below, binfieresken in (5), binfiida in (8), binfie-n in
(9) and with the uninfected stem without auxiliary often translatable as present
tense (daqčanth
e-m in (2)); it occurs less frequently with the sequential auxiliary
translatable as future wEr- (as winfie-m in the third person in (3)), and sometimes
also with the completive aspect auxiliary kir- (as kin^e-m from *kirnth
e-m in (4)
and kinth
eri- from *kirnth
eri- in (7).5
(1) Heket wira wača--binth
e- m.
someone come cry IM. DUB.
'Someone is coming crying (I hear).'
(2) Pi k'ilepma- daqčanth
e-m.
it awfully hot DUB.
'It's awfully hot (I feel the heat).'
(3) Po-m yel-hurawinth
e-m.
earth destroy SE. DUB.
'The earth will be destroyed (I know, feel).'
3
One of the meanings of -m is 'dubitative' but, as elaborated by Pitkin (1963:120), it is now
often used as a third person subject marker, apparently in order to create a marked paradigmatic
contrast between first, second, and third person subject in the verb—or perhaps to produce a form
with which to translate English third person -s.
4
This ablaut together with the alternation u~o, represented by O, is pervasive in Wintu. In
Pitkin (1963) and some of my previous papers the alternations have been represented by / and U.
However, E and O seem more appropriate because Patwin has e and o wherever Wintu has the
alternating vowels (Kenneth Whistler, personal communication), and there is thus reason to believe
that e and o were the original Proto-Wintun sounds.
5
Abbreviations used in the interlinear translations are: completive aspect (COM.), conditional
aspect (CON.), dubitative or third person subject (DUB.) (see footnote 3), exclamation word (EX.),
hortative (HO.), imperfective aspect (IM.), imperative (IMP.), interrogative (INTER.), quotative
(QUOT.), sequential aspect (SE.).
48 Evidentiality in North and South America
(4) ?Uwebe-di war ?unikinth
e- m.
don't IMP. QUOT.COM.DUB.
'He said 'don't do it!' (We heard him say not to do it.)
(5) Q'otisa-binth
eresken.
strong IM. you
'You're strong (I feel).' (Said while wrestling)
(6) 7"aqiqma•-binth
e•.
hurt IM.
'It hurts (I feel the pain).'
(7) Henuni mis yi-la-kinth
eri-?
how you send COM. INTER.
'How did he instruct you (in your hearing)?'
(8) C'epkal ne-l ba--binth
ida.
bad we eat IM. we
'We've been eating bad things (I sense).'
(9) Hida naqalma--binth
e-n.
very pitiful IM. you
'You're so pitiful! (I am emotionally affected)'
For semantic reasons -n^Er occurs most often with a third person subject. For
it to occur with the first person subject marked by -da, the speaker has to be both
the agent of what the verb stem expresses and the patient or experiencer of the
sensation that goes with the action without at the same time seeing the action.
This is possible in example 8 because the eating occurred prior to the sensation
that what was eaten was bad. The argument against a frequent occurrence with a
second person subject and its markers -n or -sken is that the speaker cannot often
make a statement about an action by the addressee which he—the speaker—does
not see. The nonvisual sensory experience is always that of the speaker except in
the interrogative (7) where it is the hearer's.
-nth
Er has to be added to each verb to be marked for nonvisual sensory
evidence, and therefore sometimes occurs several times in the sentence. It is not
enough to mark one verb per sentence if more than one verb expresses an event
known to the speaker through his senses.
Evidentials are not an old Wintun trait. Only -n^Er has a cognate with similar
functions in Patwin (Whistler, this volume), the only surviving related language.
The other Patwin evidentials were created independently from different forms
already present in the language, perhaps under the influence of drift—assuming
that the development of evidentials had just begun when Proto-Wintun split up
into the daughter languages—and perhaps because Patwin has neighbors with
evidentials, the Pomo languages.
The easiest evidential to follow back in time is -nth
Er. Since it is one of only
two morphemes which begin in a consonant cluster, its origin must be in a
contraction of two morphemes. A likely candidate for the second one is the
Schlichter: The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidentials 49
passive suffix -hEr, whose allomorphy parallels that of -nfiEr; the aspiration of
the ï*1
is a contraction of th. A search of the Wintu vocabulary further reveals a
verb root mut- 'hear, feel, sense, perceive' which echoes -nfiEr semantically. A
look at the Patwin cognate confirms that Wintu -nfiEr is a reflex of a contraction
of mut- and -hEr—Patwin has -mther or -muther. I reconstruct *mut-her for
Proto-Wintun which then became Wintu *muth
er > *mt/
'Er > nflEr. In the first
person *nth
Er(e)da became nfri-da (still found in Lee's texts) and then nf'ida. In
final position and before -m and -n, *nth
ere became nth
e-. Thus the evidential
-nfiEr arose from a passive verb form based on mut- 'hear, feel, etc' which
followed other verbs.
The second evidential indicates that the proposition expressed by the verb is
known to the speaker through hearsay. The only allomorph of this morpheme,
-ke-, occurs verb-finally, and before the dubitative or third person subject marker
-m, and occurs most often with the conditional auxiliary kila (kilake- in (11)) and
the completive auxiliary kir- {kirke- in (10)); it can also occur in the imperfective
auxiliary bEy- (bike-m in example (12)), bike- in (14) and the uninflected stem,
translatable as present tense (13). kirke-(m) and kilake-(m) have now come to
mean simply 'past tense' because they occur most frequently in past time con-
texts. There are only a few examples in texts where -ke-, with or without
auxiliaries, still refers to hearsay.
(10) MineI kirke- m.
die COM.DUB.
'He has died (I'm told).'
(11) Le-ndada suke kilake;.
long ago stand CON.
'Long ago they lived (I'm told).' (Frequently used to begin a myth)
(12) Wi-ta čalit sukebike- m.
man good stand IM.DUB.
'It is said that he is a handsome man.'
(13) Coyi- lake- ni.
drunk I
'I am drunk (I hear). They tell me I'm drunk.' (Lee 1938:90 retranscribed)
(14) K'ilepma- kuya-bike- mi.
frightfully sick IM. you
'Frightfully sick you are (I hear).' (Lee, ibid., retranscribed)
In contrast to -n^Er, -Ice- is not suffixed to every single verb of a story known
through hearsay, but rather only to the verb in the first sentence, which might be
the sentence in (11), establishing a frame for the whole story. Within the text
other evidentials may then be used to refer to evidence adduced by participants.
The hearsay evidential need not occur again at the end of a narrative, for there is
a
set of fixed phrases to end a story and complete the frame.
50 Evidentiality in North and South America
The hearsay evidential -ke- parallels the shape of the third person form of
-nfiEr, -n^e-, and we can assume that it was once *keCV, CV representing a
consonant-vowel sequence. A cognate morpheme in Wintu is -kEl 'maybe, must
be' which appears as ~ki before first person subject -da (15), as -ke before second
person -n (16) and before hortative -di (17), and as -kele before second person
subject -sken (18).6
(15) Xi-na kirkida.
sleep COM. I
'I must have slept.'
(16) Be-di harken.
don't go you
'Don't go!'
(17) Yowuna-kedi ma-let.
worry HO about you two
'He may be worried about you two.'
(18) Ho-nda xi-na kirkelesken.
long time sleep COM. you
'I guess you overslept. '
I reconstruct *kEl- for both -ke- and -kEl, still within Wintu. Originally this
morpheme probably meant something like 'maybe, potentially, etc' and later
changed its meaning to hearsay when it occurred in past time contexts. Since
Patwin does not have the i~e alternation but only e, the Proto-Wintun form of
pre-Wintu *kEl- was probably *kel-.
The reconstruction of -ke- as part of the same morpheme as -kEl is supported
by examples (13) and (14). In all the data available to me these were the only
examples with first and second person subjects of an action known through
hearsay. However, the appropriate subject markers -da and -sken or -n do not
occur, indicating complementary distribution of hearsay -ke- with potential -kEl.
*kEl in turn may be diachronically related to the auxiliary kila which verb-
finally translates as a conditional, e.g.:
(19) Minelkila cala- puke-r ?iye ?ibe.
die if nice would be is
'It would be nice if he died.'
and as a past when combined with the hearsay evidential (as in example (11)).
Another possible remote cognate of *kEl is the completive auxiliary kir- (7, 10);
6
Pitkin (1963:109) analyzes -ki and -kele as allomorphs of the hearsay evidential, not ofpotential
-kEl. This is contradicted by his example coyilake: ni '(They tell me) I'm drunk' (cf. my example
(13)), which according to his allomorphy rules should be coyilakida ni.
Schlichter: The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidential 51
there are traces in Wintu of r as a sound-symbolic vanant of / indicating augmen-
tative or iterative. All of these morphemes may ultimately go back to the prede-
cessor of kel- 'long, tall, far'. Note that there is also a verb keruma 'to finish'
and another keruma- 'to slaughter (cause to be finished?)' from which kir- may
be derived instead of being traced to a sound-symbolic variant of kil-. The
completive suffix -k may ultimately be related to all these suffixes and verbs.
The third evidential is -re-, the inferential. It may be followed only by the
dubitative or third person suffix -m, as -re-m, and indicates that the speaker
believes his statement to be true because of circumstantial sensory evidence. This
evidence turns out to be most often visual; it is difficult to think of a situation
where it is other sensory evidence and where -nfiEr cannot be used.
(20) Heke ma-n hara-kire- m.
somewhere EX. go COM.DUB.
'He must have gone somewhere (I don't see him).
(21) Piya mayto-n dekna-sto-n piya ma-n biyakire-m.
those feet steps that EX. be COM.DUB.
'Those tracks of steps! That must have been him.'
(22) Hadi winth
u-h minelbire-m.
why! person die IM. DUB.
'Why, a person must have died (I see or hear someone cry)!'
-re- occurs most often with the completive aspect kir- (20, 21) and also, less
frequently, with the imperfective aspect auxiliary bEy- (22) and the simple stem
translatable as present tense. Since the action referred to by the verb stem always
has a third person subject, -re- is now always followed by -m, which has become
a third person subject marker (cf. footnote 3). In Lee's older texts, -re- still
occurs without -m. For example:
(23) Hida k'aysare- yo-f
very hurry EX.
'He must be in a great hurry (I see him run, I can't catch up with him)!'
The reconstruction of -re- has to remain a very tentative extrapolation because
of the lack of a Patwin cognate. Its form is parallel to -ke- (from *kele) and -n^e-
(from *nth
ere), and we can assume that at one time there was an uncontracted
form of -re- of the shape *rVCV. We further know that in contractions of VCV it
ts often the second vowel which remains and is lengthened; cf. buhak > ba-k, the
completive form of the durative auxiliary, while buhak remains uncontracted as
a
n independent verb meaning 'he sat, remained', and suke > se-, the perfective
as
pect auxiliary; suke is an independent verb meaning 'to stand'. Thus -re- must
°e from *rVCe. However, Wintu has never had any words beginning in r so that
r
must have been part of the preceding verb. It was probably identical with the
52 Evidentiafity in North and South America
Wintu subordinating suffix -r which makes a verb 'syntactically dependent and
semantically anterior in regard to causality or time' (Pitkin 1963:113). If -re-,
like the other two evidentials reconstructed so far, is derived from a verb, it is not
surprising that the preceding verb should have been subordinated to it.7
In our reconstruction of -re- we are now left with *verb-r + VCe. But there
are no words beginning in a vowel, and I have reason to believe that there never
were. There must have been an earlier stage *verb-r + CVCe. r is deleted before
consonants except w, y, and ?
. (Cf. *yaluwe(r)le > yaluwe- 'Let's quit!' and
*harwe(r)le > *harwe- > hare- 'Let's go!') The reconstruction is
f'l
now *verb-r + < w > VCe. Since the evidence left for the speaker's deductive
reasoning is most often visual, my guess is that the verb we are looking for is
wine 'to see, look', so that the reconstruction, for example, of
(24) Nicay "^ewin sukere-.
nephew here stand
'My nephew must have been here (I see tracks).'
would be nicay '•'ewin *suker wine 'my nephew's having been here (I) see'.
(Note that at the time the evidentials were still verbs, verbs cannot yet have been
marked for subject, or all evidentials would now be followed by the first person
subject marker. The subject markers for all three persons which can follow
evidentials always refer to the subject of the verb stem, not that of the eviden-
tials. Also, the subject markers are in a position class following that containing
evidentials, which implies that they became affixes later. There is other indepen-
dent evidence for the late acquisition of subject markers in Wintu.)
The fourth evidential, used almost as frequently as -nth
Er, has only one
allomorph, -?el, a verbal suffix which is never followed by further suffixation. It
denotes that the speaker believes his proposition to be true because of his experi-
ence with similar situations, regular patterns, or repeated circumstances common
in human life. Pitkin's term (1963:112) for this evidential was 'experiential' but I
prefer 'expectationaF because of the experiential function of -nfiEr.
(25) Timet minePel, pira-^el.
cold die starve
7
I doubt that the hearsay evidential was ever preceded by an -r subordinating the preceding verb
because its predecessor was 'potential' *-kEl. An event is not causally anterior to its existence in
potentiality. One would also expect-r to be unlikely before -nth
Er (except as in example (8)) because
an event is not anterior to its sensory manifestation, were it not for examples like ti-nantl
'e-n 'you say
(I hear)' whose indicative and infinitive is ti-n, not ti-na. If there had not been an -r it would have
been *ti-n-mut-her- which should have resulted in ti-nth
Er- from intermediate *ti-nnth
Er-, just as
*kirnth
e- became kinth
e-. Perhaps -r was once a general subordinator, not implying anteriority-
Reconstruction of further aspects of Wintu morphology is needed to clear up these problems.
Schlichten The Origins and Deictic Nature of Winru Evidential 53
'He might freeze to death, he might starve (it's cold and he's alone, helpless,
sick).'
(26) ?lmto-n nuqa-^el.
berries ripe
'The berries must be ripe (it's that time of year).'
My data also include several examples where -?
e/ is used to indicate hearsay; e.g:
(27) Ho-rPukin bo-laheres winth
u-h biya-kilcPel ?ebasp'urit ko-t.
long ago myth people be CON. they all
'In the myths from long ago they (the animals) were all people.'
(28) Wni ma-n pip'urit '•'una- suke-kilcPel ho-nto-n
that way EX. they so stand CON. long ago
winth
u-hto-t pip'urit.
people they
'That's the way it was among the people long ago.'
This may represent a semantic change toward a single evidential for indirect
evidence which includes both hearsay and expectation.
-?el occurs most often with the conditional kila (kilcPel) and less frequently
with the uninflected stem translatable as present tense (25, 26), the imperfective
aspect auxiliary bEy- {biya?el), and the auxiliary kinaha ~ keneha 'maybe'
(kinahcPel ~ keneha?el). The experience refered to is always that of the speaker;
the event or state compared to that experience is always of a second or third
person. In fast speech -^el is shortened to -•/ after a vowel, to -el after a
consonant. There is no evidence of previous sound change in -?el so that a
reconstruction cannot add anything to its present shape. Unlike the other eviden-
tials, -?el was probably a particle, not a verb, and was never preceded by
subordinating -r or the ? would not have been preserved. There are several
morphemes in Wintu which I propose to be cognate with -?el. They may seem
unrelated at first glance, but I will explain their common semantic basis after
giving examples of each.
One cognate is a derivational suffix -el which forms stative intransitive verbs
from roots; e.g. minel 'to be dead' (< min- 'nonexistence'), silel 'to be blind'
(< «7- 'blindness'), limel 'to be sick' (< Urn- 'sickness'). Other cognates are a
nominal suffix -~*el 'in, inside' (e.g. qewePel 'inside the house'); a suffix -el
forming generic nominal stems (qewel 'house'); a verbal prefix ?el- 'in, inside,
horizontally' (e.g. ^el-hara- 'to go in, enter");8
and a suffix deriving translation
8
The probable cognateness of a prefix with a suffix in this case can be explained by assuming
that ">el was once an independent word and occurred between nouns and verbs. It became both a
suffix to the preceding noun and a prefix to the following verb, both meaning 'in, inside'.
54 Evidentially in North and South America
adjectives and adverbs from verbs (kela 'to be long, far' + *?el > Icele-l 'far,
long', '•'ola 'to be up, above' + *?el > ?ole-l 'up, above').9
Another cognate
occurs in the negative preverb ^elew which can be reconstructed as *?el 'exist' +
*vv 'privative'. I believe it is possible to argue that all these meanings ('in,
inside, horizontal, stative, generic, exist') are expressed by cognate morphemes
because the Wintu conceived of the world as flat (Du Bois 1935:75). This view is
compatible with an equation of the horizontal axis with existence in the world,
although no independent ethnographic evidence is available. I suggest that the
evidential -?el originated as a morpheme meaning something like 'it exists',
including the notions of horizontality and generic being, and it now compares an
event to its existence in potentiality. Such an event is more like a state: the Wintu
may know from experience that an event is possible in the world but he cannot
place it in a particular stretch of time with a beginning and an end unless he
witnesses it.
To summarize, a proposition is marked by an evidential if the speaker be-
lieves its content because (a) he hears, feels, senses it; (b) he heard about it from
someone else; (c) he infers it from circumstantial sensory evidence; or (d) he has
experienced similar situations. We could say that evidentials are used to mark
indirect evidence if we specify that the only evidence accepted as direct is visual
evidence whose expression is unmarked. The speaker does not claim to be
absolutely sure of anything unless he sees it right then and there together with the
addressee.10
If the speaker is sure of something because he feels it, he is not
imposing on the addressee by implying that his feeling 'exists' outside of him-
self. He states that it exists for him, leaving the addressee free to believe him or
not, feel compassion or not, check the truth of the statement or not.
Before discussing the evidentials in their relation to the rest of the Wintu
language, it will be necessary to summarize the most important features of Wintu
morphology.
A SKETCH OF WINTU MORPHOLOGY
Wintu is an accusative-type language with a passive like English. However, in
addition to the basic dichotomy between subject and object, other distinctions are
9
The loss of intervocalic consonants with contraction of the preceding and following vowels is
very common in Wintun; cf. the preceding reconstructions of other evidentials.
10
Outward appearance is of primary importance, as pointed out by Lee. She discusses (1943)
this Wintu preoccupation as shown in the making up of new words for items of acculturation (the
word for 'car', for example, means literally 'something that moves looking like a turtle-shell'). Lee
(1944b) notes such terms as 'to make one's own scalp glisten' for 'to shave the head' (p. 184).
Lee was unaware of the imperfective function of bEy- and believed it to be a fifth evidential for
visual evidence although it occurs together with the other evidentials in the same verb. She was led to
her analysis because in 'present tense' contexts the imperfective auxiliary always implies visual
evidence if it is not used together with another evidential. That is, bEy- is a visual evidential by
default in those instances.
Schlichter: The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidentials 55
drawn, elaborating on the nature of subjects and objects, and specifying the
degree of involvement of each, as well as of the speaker if he is not identical with
the subject or the object.
Many Wintu roots can be the basis for nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc., since
they are unspecified as to form class except by semantic restrictions. The root,
usually of the shape CVC, is followed by one of three derivational suffixes to
form stems which can occur as complete words or be expanded through further
derivation and inflection.11
One of the suffixes, /, makes the root into a noun or
nominal stem (including translation adjectives) which can be further derived and
inflected for nominal categories. The other two derivational suffixes, a and u,
express a modal dichotomy which can be called indicative versus subjunctive or
realis versus irrealis if it is desired to give it a conventional, very much over-
simplified name. The real difference was first described by Lee (1938). a, 'stem
I' following Pitkin's (1963) terminology, indicates that the grammatical subject
is a voluntary participant or agent of the action, process, or event described by
the verb root. If the speaker is not the agent, he needs to indicate, by the use of
evidentials, the source of his information, u, stem II, indicates that the gram-
matical subject is not a free agent of the event described by the verb root. Stem II
is used as the basis for inflection by means of suffixes to form imperatives,
interrogatives, negative statements, causatives, passives; for statements of prob-
ability, possibility, potentiality, inevitable necessary future events; to make
wishes, express hopes and fears. Evidentials do not occur with this irrealis-type
stem. The speaker does not claim to have any knowledge of or be an authority on
what he is discussing, and thus need not indicate the source of his information.
Lee (1938) called stem I 'subjective', stem II 'objective', but I will not use these
terms because they are already ambiguous in several ways.
Another important thing to point out about Wintu is that the 'present' time and
place, the time and place of speaking, and the speaker are not the center of
discourse to which other times, places, and participants are related through the
well-known deictic systems and expressions.12
The center changes depending on
who or what deserves most attention. In order to place the speaker in the center
of a discourse the Wintu use an emphatic suffix -da. It functions as a first person
subject marker (e.g. muteda 'I hear(d), we hear(d)'); it appears in deictic tem-
poral expressions (le-nda 'yesterday', literally 'old in relation to the speaker'); in
deictic locatives (wayda 'from the north', i.e. north toward the speaker); and it is
used as a general emphatic suffix (hida 'very, too', bohda 'many to be sitting').
If the speaker is not the agent, the agent is always the subject.
Wintu temporal-aspectual auxiliaries are concerned primarily with rela-
" Pitkin called these derivational suffixes 'stem formants' (1963:87). They are sometimes real-
lz
ed as suffixes, in other cases as ablaut with or without suffix. The details need not concern us here,
a s
I am giving only a simplified summary of Wintu morphology to point out features important to the
discussion of evidentials.
12
'Center of discourse' refers to the entire activity under discussion, not just its subject.
56 Evidentiality in North and South America
tionships between events. For instance, the 'future', or better, 'sequential as-
pect', auxiliary wEr-, as discussed by Lee (1938:92-3), concerns itself 'not with
the temporal relationship to the speaking subject, but with the sequential rela-
tionship of each event to the other. ' It connects events or states whose mutual
relationship is that of sequence, 'a sequence brought, or to be brought about,
through the agency of the individual. Both of the two events may be in the past or
in the future; or one may be present and the other future. . . . Thus it may be
translated, according to context, variously as: to, so as to, with the expectation
to, about to . . .' It is important to note, however, that these English translations
are very poor carriers for the Wintu concept.
Similarly kila, the auxiliary for 'conditional aspect', translates as a past where
it occurs with the hearsay evidential (recall example 11, le-ndada sake kilake-
'long ago they lived'), but as a conditional if verb-final; recall example (19),
minelkila cala- puke-r '•'iye ?ibe 'it would be nice if he died', where the dying is
not past with respect to the moment of speaking, but is anterior to the being
nice.)
Wintu has no grammatical categories expressing past or future relative to
speakers; the flow of time is analyzed as constituted of events whose temporal
relations are fixed; the only thing that changes is the point of reference, the
viewpoint of the speaker. The future can be known from intuition or dreams
(marked by -nth
Er), because it is common knowledge (-'e/), or because it fol-
lows from other events (wEr-). The past can be known from hearsay (-ke-),
because it was a prerequisite for other events which are directly observed {kila),
or because its result is directly observed (kir-). Neither past nor future can be
directly observed in the present (cf. Ayer 1958:189ff).
EVIDENTIALS AS DEICTICS
Since the speaker and his position in time and space are not the center of
discourse in Wintu, it is important to state the epistemic relation of the speaker to
the activity in the center, which may have happened at a different place and time;
in English it is important to relate the time of the activity under discussion to the
present situation, the time of discourse. English has temporal deixis (tenses)
overlapping and interplaying with nondeictic aspectual distinctions. Wintu di-
rectly relates events and only secondarily assigns them a time. The time is always
assigned to the event being particularized and discussed, never to the moment of
knowledge. Knowledge is timeless in the case of the expectational -?el; for the
other three evidential knowledge is dependent on and unambiguously inferrable
from the time of the particularized event in the center or the time of speaking. For
-re- and -ke- the logic, judgment, or knowledge is always at the time of speaking,
relating the event of speaking to the event under discussion with respect to
evidence. Only -nth
Er can refer to a feeling had at the time of the event under
discussion. For -re- the evidence was left in the past and the speaker considers it
Schlichter: The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidentials 57
in the present; for -nfiEr combined with a 'past' auxiliary the feeling occurred in
the past; for -n^Er with a 'future' auxiliary the feeling occurs at the moment of
speaking, while the event will take place in the future; elsewhere the event under
discussion and the feeling take place at the same time.
We are now ready to consider evidentials as a deictic phenomenon. Deixis, as
I understand it, has two components: a locating component in which the speaker
places the event under discussion in time and space relative to the speech act; and
an interpreting component in which it is up to the addressee to correctly interpret
what he hears by reversing first and second person pronominal reference and
making all the adjustments necessitated by his own identity, individuality, and
position in time and space as different from that of the speaker. When the speaker
uses deictic expressions he organizes the information he gives with respect to
himself as referent, although he may occasionally, for purposes of politeness,
take the point of view of the addressee.
If we imagine the flow of time (consisting of consecutive events) as a line on
which we place a particular event and a speaker, tenses in English locate the
event under discussion along the flow of time as preceding, following, or coin-
ciding with the moment of speaking. 'Aspect' usually refers to certain nondeictic
verbal categories: it locates an event with respect to the flow of time, not the
speaker and time and place of speaking. Both Wintu and English have deictic
adverbial expressions. But Wintu has no tenses in the verb; it has only aspect,
coordination, and subordination to relate events to each other. The only way in
which Wintu verbs locate events with respect to speakers similar to English tense
deixis is with the evidential suffixes. It must be emphasized, however, that the
speaker is not the center in Wintu: the speaker places the event in the center, with
himself in some relation to it, not the event in relation to himself in the center.
The gap between event and speaker is bridged in Wintu by expressing the
channel through which the event has come to be known to the speaker. Wintu
treats the flow of time as consisting of consecutive events and locates events with
respect to results, visible manifestations, and conditions which are directly ob-
servable, unlike the past or the future, or another person's mental state.
The interpretation of the relationship between events is subjective and is
marked with evidentials. It is up to the addressee to interpret the evidence he is
confronted with by looking at the speaker to see if he is joking or serious, looks
reliable or guilty of a lie, is in pain or happy, smart or old enough to know, or
just bragging. Using evidential suffixes, the speaker appeals to the hearer as a
rational person who can correctly estimate the strength of evidence (cf. Ayer
1972:3). One fact may be good evidence for another in one situation, bad
e
vidence under different circumstances. Each time a speaker makes a statement
Us
mg an evidential expression, the hearer has to decide whether the evidence
Justifies the claim in that particular situation so that the speaker has a right to be
sure.
The truth of a statement does not depend on its meaning, but on the time and
58 Evidentially in North and South America
place at which the event it describes is supposed to have happened. English uses
tense deixis to place a statement with respect to the time its truth depends on;
Wintu employs evidential deixis to place an event in the context of the other
events which are entailed by it. Just as deictic terms for place, time, and person
are shorter terms standing for longer descriptions (I say / and you instead of
stating our names; here instead of stating the address; today instead of stating the
date), so the Wintu have verbal suffixes describing the evidence, leaving it up to
the hearer to supply the detailed information and interpretation.
CONCLUSIONS
I have shown that evidentials are of recent origin in Wintu. Three of the suffixes
arose from independent verbs, one from a particle. The predecessors of the
evidentials may have been placed after verbs by bilingual ancestors of the Wintu
who had picked up the habit from neighboring languages which had evidentials.
I would like to suggest that in Wintu—and perhaps also in other languages
which have evidentials and aspect, but no tense—evidential deixis is an alter-
native to the temporal orientation of 'Western' civilization. As elaborated by
Hallowell (1955:216-235), the paramount interest in time characteristic of our
own culture, with calendars and clocks dividing time into years, months, hours,
etc., is based on a concept of time as a collection of hours and minutes. We think
of time as an enclosed space which can be divided or filled up. But frames of
reference vary from society to society, and cultures which lack our temporal
orientation always have alternatives (cf. Whorf 1964, esp. pp. 57-64; Hoijer
1951). One alternative is to think of time as a sequence of events, a view which is
the Wintu conceptual basis for an orientation along the lines of evidential deixis.
The Wintu evidential system, with its primary dichotomy of unmarked visible
events versus nonvisible events marked according to epistemic manifestation, is
by no means the only possible arrangement. Another possibility is unmarked
direct perception, regardless of sensory channel, versus knowledge acquired
indirectly, marked according to source: hearsay, circumstantial evidence, pure
inference, etc. (cf. Chafe 1973:264-65, 277).
Languages with tense distinctions encode the link between speech act and
event by stating their temporal relation;13
languages with evidential systems do
this by specifying immediacy of knowledge.
13
Most Indo-European languages make a primary distinction between unmarked present and
marked past. The past which cannot be directly perceived is subdivided into several tenses, just as
indirect knowledge is subdivided by channel in evidential systems. As noted by Fleischman (1980),
the future is always superimposed on the basic present/past distinction: the present is often used to
refer to the future; languages usually have more past tenses than futures; the future is conceptually
more abstract, subjective, and affective, and originates with modals.
Schlichter: The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidential 59
REFERENCES
Ayer, A. J. 1958. The Problem of knowledge. London: Macmillan and Co.
1972. Probability and evidence. New York: Columbia University Press.
Chafe, Wallace L. 1973. Language and memory. Language 49.261-81.
Du Bois, Cora. 1935. Wintu ethnography. (University of California Publications in America Archae-
ology and Ethnology, 36.) Berkeley: University of California Press.
Fillmore, Charles J. 1971. Santa Cruz Lectures on Deixis. Indiana University Linguistics Club 1975.
Fleischman, Suzanne. 1980. Futures: where do they come from and where do they go? Diachronie
patterns in future reference. (Paper given at the November lll h
meeting of the Berkeley
Linguistics Group.)
Hallowell, A. Irving. 1955. Culture and experience. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Hoijer, Harry. 1951. Cultural implications of some Navaho linguistic categories. Language
27(2). 111-120.
Lee, D. Demetracopoulou. 1938. Conceptual implications of an Indian language. Philosophy of
Science 5.89-102.
1941. Some Indian texts dealing with the supernatural. The Review of Religion 5(4).403-11.
1943. The Linguistic aspect of Wintu acculturation. American Anthropologist 45.435-40.
1944a. Categories of the generic and particular in Wintu. American Anthropologist
46.362-69.
1944b. Linguistic reflection of Wintu thought. International Journal of American Lin-
guistics 10.181-87.
1950. Notes on the conception of the self among the Wintu Indians. The Journal of
Abnormal and Social Psychology 45.538-543.
Pitkin, Harvey. 1963. Wintu Grammar. Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Linguistics, University of
California, Berkeley.
Whorf, Benjamin Lee. 1964. Language, thought, and reality. Selected writings of Benjamin Lee
Whorf, ed. by John B. Carroll. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
FOUR
Evidentials in Patwin
Kenneth W. Whistler
University of California, Berkeley
1. INTRODUCTION
This paper is concerned with evidentials in Patwin, particularly in Hill Patwin,
the best attested of the Southern Wintun languages.'-2
The topic should be of
some interest for the diachronic study of the development of evidentials, in
addition to being one more synchronic description of such a system, since Patwin
1
The research for this paper was supported, in part, by the Survey of California and Other Indian
Languages, University of California, Berkeley, and by a postdoctoral fellowship from the Depart-
ment of Anthropology, Smithsonian Institution. I wish to thank Oscar McDaniel (kabalme-m Hill
Patwin), Jennie Regalado (Grimes River Patwin), and especially the late Rev. Harry Lorenzo
(Rumsey Hill Patwin) for their help in teaching me about their language. I also wish to acknowledge
the following people for helpful comments on the oral presentation draft of this paper: Johanna
Nichols, Sally McLendon, Harvey Pitkin, Alice Schlichter, and Tony Woodbury. Of course, any
omissions and/or errors of analysis are my own responsibility.
2
The two Southern Wintun languages, Patwin and Southern Patwin, formerly spoken in Glenn,
Colusa, Lake, Yolo, and Napa Counties, California, can be divided into dialects roughly as follows:
A. Patwin (2 divergent groupings of dialects)
1. Hill Patwin (3 distinct dialects)
a. kabalme-m (= WPK)
b. /*<*/*/ (= WPT)
c. Southern Hill Patwin (with subdialectal variation)
i. Cortina
ii. Rumsey (= WPCC)
iii. Putah
iv. Napa
2. River Patwin (2 close subdialects)
i. Colusa
ii. Grimes
B. Southern Patwin (with several dialects)
For more details regarding this classification, see Whistler (1980). The data for this paper are taken
only from the Rumsey and fiebM Hill Patwin dialects.
60
Whistler: Evidentials in Patwin 61
is clearly and not too distantly related to Wintu, the language which could be said
to have first brought evidentials into focus as a potential grammatical category in
languages.3
Before presenting the Patwin analysis, however, a few cautionary remarks are
in order regarding the nature of the Patwin data and the scope of the analysis
proposed. All of the surviving dialects of Patwin are profoundly moribund, being
still spoken by only a few elderly individuals, mostly in their 80s, scattered about
in different rancherias and small towns in central California. The language has
been undergoing a process of rapid deacquisition over the last fifty years or so.
My own work with three elderly speakers began in 1975, when the language had
generally long since ceased to be used for all but the most limited functions—
mostly because there was no one left to talk to. The data I was able to collect
directly were mostly lexical or sentential, and what connected discourse I could
record in two dialects shows little sign of the usage of evidentials. It was not until
I started working with a third speaker (of a third dialect of Patwin) that I found
someone whose grammatical command of Patwin seemed extensive and fresh
enough to be able to give reasonable interpretations of contextually complex
grammatical phenomena such as evidentials, and even then the process consisted
of reeliciting and interpreting texts which had been collected twenty-five or more
years earlier from other speakers and by other linguists.
Perhaps the best source of data about Patwin evidentials is a small collection
of texts made by Paul Radin circa 1931 in a dialect of Patwin known as fiebtH
Hill Patwin (WPT), a dialect which I was unfortunately unable to work on
directly. Radin's linguistic transcriptions are, however, phonetically abomina-
ble, and the material is very inadequately analyzed; consequently, it is somewhat
unreliably translated as well. Thus, while the Radin texts are the richest source of
complex, interclausal grammatical phenomena in Patwin, interpreting such con-
structions in the texts is a slow, bootstrapping, and somewhat speculative
process.
Later Patwin linguistic corpuses gathered by two fieldworkers from the Sur-
vey of California and Other Indian Languages (University of California, Berke-
ley), Elizabeth Bright in 1951 and Donald Ultan in 1960/61, provide some
supplementary data on Patwin grammar. But neither of these fieldworkers dealt
with evidentials per se, even though by the time of their collecting, Dorothy
Lee's article on evidential phenomena in the related language, Wintu, had al-
ready been published. It is only by reanalyzing and reeliciting the text material
gathered by Bright and by Ultan that the evidential phenomena embedded in their
data become apparent.
3
Lee (1944) identifies the Wintu evidentials as 'definitive suffixes' which serve to specify the
means of cognizance for a speaker when expressing beliefs about 'reality within personal cognition. '
Not until later, however, were these 'definitive suffixes' actually called 'evidentials'; see, for
example, Pitkin (1963).
62 Evidentiality in North and South America
What I have done, then, comprises a kind of textual philology to recover
rather subtle distinctions in the language. Clearly, however, such data are sus-
pect for making fine-tuned judgments about the semantics and pragmatics of
evidentials in Patwin. As a result, I do not try to push the data too far. Instead,
the general aim here is to provide an overall catalog and typology of the eviden-
tial-like phenomena I have discovered in Patwin. I characterize the functions of
the various suffixes and clitics as well as I can, given the available data, and also
provide morphological analyses where appropriate.
The most fruitful approach to take in interpreting the Patwin data is historical.
Since the morphological analyses of the evidentials and evidential-like suffixes
and clitics in Patwin are fairly strightforward, the pieces can be compared with
cognate elements in Wintu to seek patterns of historical development of eviden-
tial functions. Which of these evidentials are old in the Wintun family? Which
are innovations? And what are the semantic values of the morphological pieces
which end up having evidential functions? How do the overall Wintu and Patwin
systems compare? While a full answer to these questions would require a com-
plete comparative reconstruction, I do point out the Wintu comparisons and
differential developments and conclude with some general observations regard-
ing the history of the systems.
CATEGORIZATION OF THE PATWIN PHENOMENA
Evidential qualification in Patwin discourse takes several, somewhat disparate
forms. Unlike Wintu, which has been characterized as having an almost paradig-
matic set of contrastive, formal evidential suffixes,4
Patwin suffixes which
qualify the evidential status of a predicate are diverse and tend to overlap func-
tionally with other, nonevidential uses. Furthermore, a particular evidential suf-
fix may be formally a part of a paradigmatic set of suffixes others of whose
members are not especially evidential in function.
To clarify the Patwin phenomena, I have sorted the forms and their functions
into three major, mode-based categories: (a) phenomena related to the quotative
mode, (b) phenomena related to the declarative mode, and (c) true evidentials
(and evidential-like epistemic modals), including a few suffixes apparently re-
stricted to the irrealis mode. The analysis presented here is necessarily tentative,
and subject to revision as the problems of intractable and poorly attested syntac-
tic patterns in Patwin, such as the irrealis, are better understood through further
analysis. What follows is an attempt to sort out the Patwin phenomena in such a
way as to render them accessible for crosslinguistic and historical discussion of
evidentials.
4
See the paper by Schlichter in this volume. Also see Pitkin ( 1963, or 1978 revision of same) for
further analysis and examples.
Whistler: Evidentials in Patwin 63
Table 1. Predicate modes in Patwin (WPCC)
Modal
Particle
Unmarked
Tense
Definite
Past
Remote
Past
Definite
Future
Declarative
Interrogative
Quotative
Irrealis5
P'
pa
?upu
ka
-s~-0
-say
-ml-mu"
-0b
-sa
-ta-
-ni-sa
-ni-ta-
-ti-(s)
-ti-(say)
a
The unmarked tense quotative constitutes a narrative past.
b
The zero-marked irrealis takes stem IVa of the verb.
PATWIN PREDICATE MODES
Patwin, or at least the Hill dialects of Patwin, has four formal modes for main
clause predicates: the declarative, the interrogative, the quotative, and the irre­
alis. The irrealis is poorly attested in the extant data. (Imperative and hortative
verb forms considered together could constitute yet another mode, but they seem
to be irrelevant to the main issues of evidential status.) The four predicate modes
are indicated by the presence of a clitic modal particle in the clause, often in
second position, together with mutually exclusive sets of final suffixes on the
verb which provide information about tense distinctions in the declarative and
interrogative modes. The forms appropriate to each mode are shown in Table 1.
The declarative and interrogative modal particles are apparently optional in a
given clause. They occur most often when the main verb is marked for definite
future tense, as shown in (1):
(WPCC) (la) na-me pa ču hara--ti.
last time INTER. I go-FUT.
'Shall I go one last time?'
(lb) co-wi pi ču hara--ti.
to see DECLAR. I go-FUT.
'I'll go see.'; 'I'll go for a look.'
(lc) po pi ?ele--be ciyak-ma
no one DECLAR. not-can old man-OBJ.
5
The 'irrealis' clitic -ka has long posed a problem for my analysis of Patwin grammar. In earlier
treatments I have listed it first as a 'suffix of uncertain function, perhaps referential' (Whistler
1977:174), and later as a ' "subjunctive" mode particle' (Whistler 1978:58). In Whistler (1981) and
subsequently, however, I have reserved the term 'subjunctive' for the -ml-mu suffix, and have called
-ka an 'irrealis mode clitic'. This choice is based on a partial paradigmatic parallel to the declarative
and interrogative mode (clitic) particles, as well as the occurrence of -ka in some counterfactual
constructions. However, -ka sometimes merely seems to indicate indefinite reference for a subject
nominal in Patwin. Presumably -ka is cognate with the Wintu suffix -qa-, -qat —qah, glossed 'as
f o r
• . .' by Schlichter.
64 Evidentially In North and South America
'«/ ^e-t-miPu.
that steal-NEG.
'Nobody can steal from that old man.'
In the quotative and irrealis modes there do not seem to be formal tense distinc­
tions, at least as far as the available data show.
THE QUOTATIVE MODE AS EVIDENTIAL
Quotative grammatical devices serve to qualify the evidential status of a predi­
cate by indicating that a statement has been heard from someone else and is not
made on the speaker's own authority. Since in Patwin the quotative mode is
grammatically distinct, I discuss its evidential functions separately from those of
other evidential devices in the language.
The Patwin quotative mode serves overall as a general narrative past for
stories, especially myths. It is virtually absent in the data I collected in three
dialects of Patwin. This fact is presumably the result of the moribund status of
the language and, perhaps more importantly, of the gradual loss of the traditional
tales and the appropriate communal settings for their telling. The death of the
former skilled Patwin raconteurs has left a much impoverished rhetorical struc­
ture in the more recently recorded tales. Consequently, data regarding the con­
sistent use of the Patwin quotative mode is almost wholly derived from the
manuscript mythic texts collected by Paul Radin from Anson Lowell, a Hill
Patwin who spoke the th
ebth
i (WPT) dialect.
I present in (2) a short excerpt from those texts which shows how the
quotative operates in Hill Patwin.6
(WPT) (2a) katit-se-ktu: hale-^um pasalcPa-m
Bullethawk-Chief I'll go-QUOT. visit-SUBJUNCTIVE
la-baču-t.
my elder brother-OBJ.
'Bullethawk-Chief [said]: "I think I'll go visit my older brother." '
(2b) sedew-ciyak: ^o-^um. hartaro wer-^um.
Coyote-Old Man o.k.-QUOT. go and come back-QUOT.
kay-ma weri-^um. ba-se-^um.
gopher-OBJ. bring (ANIM.)-QUOT. let's 2 eat-QUOT.
du-kuru weri-^um.
beg and bring (ANIM.)-QUOT.
'Coyote Old Man [Bullethawk's "grandpa"] [said]: "O.k. Have a
6
All ^eb^i Hill Patwin (WPT) forms cited in this paper are philologically rectified and presented
in the phonemic transcription I have adopted for other Hill Patwin dialects.
Whistler: Evidential in Patwin 65
good trip, [literally: Go and come back.] Bring back some
gopher[meat]. We'll eat it. Ask for [some gophermeat] and
bring it back." '
(2c) pa-l ?upu har-mu, hartaro di-la hen-mu.
now QUOT. go-mu go to and home arrive ai-mu
'Now then [Bullethawk] left, travelled and arrived at [his brother's]
home.'
(2d) pila ^upu ?ele--m_ fiasi- kayo-ro.
there QUOT. be gone-m Mink gophering
'There Mink was away gophering.'
This piece of text illustrates two distinct kinds of quotatives in Patwin. (2a)
and (2b) include direct quotations of lines by characters in the tale, whereas (2c)
and (2d) are narrative statements in the quotative mode. (2a) and (2b) show the
typical Patwin dramatic presentational style; the character speaking is announced
and then quoted (presumably with a distinct voice by the skillful raconteur,
although there is no audio record of such a text). An element of each directly
quoted sentence or phrase (usually the main verb, or an interjection functioning
as a minor predicate) is suffixed with -'«m, the direct quotative suffix. Mor­
phologically, -?
M/n consists of -'« 'to say' + -ml-mu subjunctive (for which see
below), and could be literally glossed as 'he say. . .'.
The quotative mode illustrated in (2c) and (2d) differs somewhat. There each
narrative sentence generally exhibits the ?upu quotative modal particle, which
could be literally glossed as 'they say' or 'I hear', and the main verb, or verbs,
each ends in the -ml-mu subjunctive suffix. 'Subjunctive' is being used here as a
catch-all label for the many functions of -ml-mu. (The two allomorphs of -ml-mu
are conditioned by the final phonological segment of the verb stem.) Among
those functions are marking of some types of negation, of main verbs in the
quotative mode, and of the subordinate purposive verbs. An example of this last
function can be seen in (2a), where pasala?am 'to visit' is subordinate to hale
'I'll go'. In the quotative mode the -ml-mu suffixed verbs correspond to what
would generally be s suffixed, i.e. unmarked tense, verbs in the declarative
mode.
Another example of quotative usage from the Radin texts is given in (3):
(WPT) (3a) pita pi-t ?upu: po ^i-say-^um
there then QUOT. who is it-INTER. PRES.-QUOT.
nat-panti hama-say-^um, kikth
umas.
me-on top of sit-INTER. PRES.-QUOT. make crowded.
'There, they say, [Raven] then [said]: "Who is it sitting on top of
me, crowding me?" '
(3b) pi-t ?upu: ču ?i-s "•>
a-pakh
e--?um.
then QUOT. I it is-s grandpa (VOC.)-QUOT.
'Then [Bullethawk replied]: "It's me, grandpa." '
66 Evidentially in North and South America
In this example ?upu indicates the quotative mode and secondarily serves as an
implicit verb of saying in the absence of any overt, true verb of saying. -?um then
marks the directly quoted material, as in example (2) above.
In data from other Patwin dialects there are scattered instances of the use of an
apparently distinct quotative auxiliary of the shape -boml-bem. (< -bo 'to be
(animate locational auxiliary)', -be 'to be (inanimate locational auxiliary)'
+ -ml-mu) For example:
(WPCC) (4) ?ele-s ču "^ut win-miPu pPus^u huymaro bo--bom pi.
not I her see-NEG. but pretty be-QUOT. she
'I never seen her, but they say she's pretty.'
This usage is, however, no doubt related to the full quotative mode which
appears in the narrative tales.
Another miscellaneous form of note is -mpu, which Radin (1932) lists in his
manuscript grammar and lexicon of Patwin as meaning ' 1. inferential perfective,
2. hearsay', and which he claims is contracted from -mupu. The categorical
interpretations which Radin provides make it sound as if he is talking about an
evidential suffix. However, what meager data there are would seem to indicate
that the -mpu form is indeed a syntactic contraction of -ml-mu + "^upu and is thus
merely another manifestation of the quotative mode. This would fit with Radin's
characterization of -mpu as a 'hearsay' suffix, but not as an 'inferential perfec­
tive' . Apparently Radin thought that -mpu was paradigmatically related to -mte,
which he had termed as '1. inferential present, 2. inferential perfective', -mte
does in fact serve as a kind of inferential evidential, and it is discussed with the
other true Patwin evidentials below.
One last suffix in Hill Patwin which is probably related to the quotatives is
-^unan, morphologically comprised of -?
« 'to say, to do' and -nan 'reflexive'.
Out of context it has been literally glossed as 'he himself say', and it seems to be
used in context, at least in Rumsey Hill Patwin (WPCC), to identify statements
which are reported as someone else's definite assertions. For example:
(WPCC) (5) sedew-ciyak: ^ele-^unana-s pi hen-mu?u,
Coyote-Old Man not-?
unan-s he arrive-NEG.
nay tihi-tu-t.
I (GEN.) ask-3 SG. OBJ.
'Coyote [said]: "He himself said he'd never been there, when I
asked him." '
See also example (6), which shows in addition the regular quotative mode
pattern:
(WPCC) (6) hentaro mi ">upu were--m; wini-^unana-s
arrived and you QUOT. take-m see-?unan-s
Whistler: Evidential in Patwin 67
mit pi.
you (OBJ.) he
'[I hear] you were there and took [the beads]—he himself said he
saw you [take them].'
There is, however, a problem in interpreting this construction, since -^unan is
doubtfully distinct from another suffix -^inan, which is glossed as 'he actually
did, he himself did', and is presumably derived from the -?/ 'to do' auxiliary plus
-nan 'reflexive'. The Rumsey Hill Patwin (WPCC) forms are consistently cited
with -'?
unan, but in the fiebM (WPT) dialect, the functionally analogous forms
seem to be cited as -?inan, which calls into question the connection with the 'to
say' sense of -9
M. Compare, for example, 5 in the Rumsey dialect with the
following sentence (7), which is Anson Lowell's version of the same line in the
same story.
(WPT) (7) tihi-tu-t nay, hen-nuPu ?
e/e--?
wanq-sa.
ask-3 SG. OBJ. I (GEN.) arrive-NEG. not-?inan-DEF. PAST
T asked him (and) he never got over there he said.' [Radin's
translation]
Also note sentence (8), which is Lowell's version of (6):
(WPT) (8) wini-^inana-sa mit.
see-'man-DEF. PAST you (OBJ.)
'He saw you actually.' [Radin's translation]
'Look! Look! Look! The water is coming!'
Even if these forms are really quotatives, they seem to merge with the function-
ing of -?« and -W (in their sense of 'to do') as emphatic assertives. I discuss some
of these assertive uses briefly in die next section.
THE DECLARATIVE MODE AND EVIDENTIAL STATUS
Several constructions in the declarative mode in Hill Patwin function in ways that
border on being true qualification of the evidentiary status of statements. (For the
morphosyntax of the declarative mode, see section 3 above.) Chief among these
constructions is the use of the auxiliary bo(-)s/be(-)s, the locational 'to be', as an
equivalent to a direct sensory evidential.
bo(-)s (animate) and be(-)s (inanimate) function in several related senses as
Patwin auxiliaries. For example, they are most commonly used to express con-
tinuative (or imperfective) aspect in a predication:
(WPCC) (9) hamtaro bos.
sit and be-s
'He is sitting (there).'
68 Evidentiality in North and South America
However, since the primary sense of bo(-)s/be(-)s is 'to be THERE', i.e. 'to be
present in full view', in which sense it is the antonym of '•'ele-s 'to be absent, to
be away, to NOT be there', predications involving bo(-)s/be(-)s generally imply
that the evidential basis for that predication is there in plain sight. Thus, for
example, in 10:
(WPCC) (10) pi! pi! pi! me-m were-be-s.
there there there water come-be-s
'Look! Look! Look! The water is coming!'
[said of a world flood about to roll in on the characters of a
myth]
This statement has to be construed as being asserted as true on the basis of clearly
visible evidence, rather than indirect inference.
An interesting contrast can be seen in the following pair of sentences, which
show a semantic minimal pair relevant to this sense of bo(-)s/be(-)s as a virtual
direct sensory evidential:
(WPCC) (11a) behruPu me-m kh
ontaro be--s.
next morning water dried be-s
(lib) behruPu me-m kh
ontaro '•'ele-s.
next morning water dried be gone/not be-s
'Next morning the water was dried up.'
(11a), which actually occurs a little later in the world flood myth mentioned
above, can be construed approximately as 'The water has dried up, and that state
of being dry now is and is visually evident there.' (lib), however, is also
perfectly grammatical Patwin, and perhaps even more elegant; it would be con-
strued as 'The water is dried up, and is no longer there, which ABSENCE is
visually evident there.'
The upshot of this discussion is that while bo(-)s/be(-)s used as an auxiliary
does seem to carry some evidential force by virtue of its sense 'to be THERE in
sight', this is not really its primary function. Furthermore, direct sensory evi-
dence is not a hard and fast implication of use of bo(-)s/be(-)s, since in express-
ing continuative (or imperfective) aspect it is not uncommonly applied even
when the affected state or action is not directly present and visible.
This analysis of Patwin bo(-)s/be(-)s shows an interesting functional parallel
in Wintu bEy-, which is cognate with Patwin be(-)~s. Pitkin (1963) labeled bEy-
as the Wintu visual evidential. However, as Pitkin and Schlichter have sug-
gested,7
bEy- functions primarily as an imperfective auxiliary in Wintu, and only
secondarily as a visual evidential (in the absence of other, explicit evidentials).
7
See especially Schlichter's article in this volume for discussion of these points.
Whistler: Evidentials in Patwin 69
Another class of clitics in Patwin which modify the sense of a statement in the
declarative mode are what could be termed assertives. These, too, are not truly
evidentials. What they do is assert the validity of a claim to knowledge.
(WPCC) (12) čeme-s-^u pipel.
have-s-do they two
'They two have got it.' (know for sure)
The certainty of knowledge in (12) contrasts with the uncertainty in (13):
(WPCC) (13) čeme--mth
ere-s pipel.
have-might-* they two
'I think they two got it.' (not sure)
However, the certainty of (12) is more an assertion of truth, i.e. 'surely . . .' or
'they do in fact . . .', than a specification of the evidential grounds for the
assertion.
A number of modals or adverbs in Patwin can also be used in epistemic senses
which qualify the validity of a statement but do not directly serve to specify its
evidential basis. But once again, the line is not easy to draw in Patwin. Such
usages tend to fade into those of true evidentials, whose construction I take up
next.
EVIDENTIALS AND VALIDATIONALS
There are five suffixes in Hill Patwin whose functioning could be analyzed as
primarily evidential in character. These are summarized in (14):
(WPCC) (14a) -botil-beti indirect evidential
(knowledge based on other than direct sensory evidence requiring
no inference)
(14b) -mth
erl-muth
er tentative inference
(implied insufficient grounds for certain knowledge, 'might')
(14c) -mtel-mute- tentative inference (?)
(a morphological variant of b, used in the irrealis mode, 'must
have . . .')
(14d) -rrPal-mu?a confident inference
('must have . . .')
(14e) -morPa circumstantial inference
(inference based on appearance, 'seems as if, appears to be')
With the possible exception of -morPa, all of these suffixes seem to be connected
with epistemic modal usage in one way or another.
70 Evidentiality in North and South America
The indirect evidential, -botil-beti, is the most general evidential in Hill
Patwin. It seems to encompass a number of evidential types, including hearsay,
logical inference, and inference based on circumstance or appearance. What
these seem to share is a disclaimer to knowledge based on direct sensory evi-
dence whose implication is publicly obvious. In this way -botil-beti contrasts
with bo(-)slbe(-)s as analyzed above. A few examples are given in 15:
(WPCC) (15a) likku-n hatth
u! ^ilayin berecoyi-boti.
quickly pick children hungry-EVID.
'Gather up [greens] quickly! [Your] children must be hungry.'
(15b) ma-ne-n we-i tiwnana harw-boti.
your-mother salt to buy go-EVID.
'Your mother must have gone to buy salt.'
(15c) la-bakh
e-, sulth
i-to pepelet ?i-boti.
elder brother (VOC.) kill-INT.FUT. us two (OBJ.) do-evid.
'Elder brother, he's trying to kill us two. '
(15d) he-ti win hene--boti.
from somewhere person arrive-EVID.
'Someone has come here from someplace.'
(15e) yirma pi haybcPa-s.
leg (OBJ.) he hurt-j
'His leg hurts.'
(15f) yirma hayba^a-boti pi.
leg (OBJ.) hurt-EVID. he
'[He told me] his leg hurts.'
In (15a) the children are not present. The speaker, Bear Old Lady, is fabricating
an excuse to make Deer Old Lady gather greens quickly for her children. The
point is that it is plausible to say that the children are (or will be) hungry, but they
are not physically present to give obvious visual or aural evidence of being
hungry. (15b) is similar. It is in fact a lie in the context of the narrative, but it
serves as a plausible excuse for the mother's absence, in lieu of evidence to the
contrary. In (15c), the inference of intent is based on a prior pattern of actions
which seem lethal in aim. In (15d), the statement is in response to Bullethawk
landing on top of Raven's home. There is suspicion, but not yet direct confirma-
tion through sighting, that what Raven has heard was the arrival of someone.
(15e) and (15f ) show -boti serving as a kind of hearsay evidential not involving
the quotative mode. Note that all of these uses can be glossed roughly as 'must
be' or 'must have been'—the implication is that there is sufficient evidence for
making a claim, but that it is not directly from vision or other senses. This
evidential can be used rhetorically, as in (15a) and (15b), to make false claims,
of course.
Morphologically, -botil-beti is derived from the auxiliary -bol-be 'to be (lo-
Whistler: Evidentials in Patwin 71
cational)' (without final -s). The -ti seems related to the -li definite future suffix,
so that in origin these forms are the future tense of the 'to be (locational)'
auxiliary, with subsequent loss of glottalization in the phonologically weak pred-
icate-final position. (Such loss is found also in auxiliary verbs, numerals, and
other suffixes.) The paradigmatic contrast of -botil-beti with the unmarked tense
bo(-)slbe(-)s thus becomes clear.
In some contexts, the original future sense of -botil-beti can still be seen, as,
for example, in (15a) and (15c) above, or as in (16):
(WPCC) (16) hene--kayi-boti sun.
arrive-be about to-EVID. here
'He's about to come here.'
But -botil-beti has been generalized to apply to predicates in the present or past
tenses, where a claim is made in the absence of direct—usually visual—evi-
dence, as is clear from examples (15b), (15d) and (15f).
The second Patwin evidential, -mth
erl-muth
er, indicates uncertain knowl-
edge, in other words, an opinion rather than a claim of fact, or an assumption
based on tenuous evidence rather than certain knowledge. It is often translated as
'I think . . .' or 'It looks like . . .', or 'might'. Examples are given in (17) and
(18):
(WPCC) (17) muhu-mth
ere-s pi.
sing-might-î he
'I think he'll sing.' 'I think he's singing.'
(WPCC) (18) ioti-ii-mth
ere-s.
storm-DEF. FUT.-might-s
'Looks like it's gonna storm. '
This Patwin suffix is cognate with the Wintu nonvisual sensory evidential
-nfler, which has been mentioned in the various analyses of Wintu evidentials.8
However, in Patwin the specific information about channel of sensory evidence
seems to have been bleached out of the suffix—it really only entails uncertainty
of speaker knowledge. In fact, its use in Patwin is in many respects not clearly
distinguishable from an epistemic 'might' modal, towards which it may have
been evolving. In this sense -mth
er/-muth
er verges on being a 'validational' in
Patwin, indicating the relative degree of validity of an assertion, rather than
functioning as a true 'evidential.'
The third Patwin suffix listed in (14), -mtel-mute-, seems to be a mor-
phological variant of -mth
er/-muth
er restricted to clauses in the irrealis mode. It
is quite poorly attested, but in those attestations only occurs in clauses marked
with ka:
See especially Schlichter's article in this volume for discussion of these points.
72 Evidentiality in North and South America
(WPCC) (19a) talma-mte-ka ču nay-ceme-hem.
drop-must-IRR. I my-belonging
'I (must have) dropped my belonging.'
(WPCC) (19b) ?ete-ta-ka bar-mute-, ?ele--s pi sun.
one-IRR. go-must be gone-« he here
'One of them left—he's not here.'
The translation glosses of -mtel-mute- are 'must have . . .'or 'think that proba­
bly . . .' Radin classes the fiebfii Hill Patwin (WPT) suffix -mte as '1. inferen­
tial present; 2. inferential perfective' in his grammatical notes, which presum­
ably is consistent with the general sense of -mtel-mute- as an epistemic 'must'
modal.
Use of -mtel-mute- apparently indicates an assertion based on inference or
circumstantial evidence but not direct knowledge. Thus, (19a) would be appro­
priate when just noticing that some belonging is missing and from that state of
affairs inferring that its missing-ness is probably the result of having dropped the
object somewhere. (19b) works similarly. The degree of certainty of inference
implied by the use of -mtel-mute- in the irrealis seems somewhat greater than that
for -mth
er/-muth
er, but with so few citations in the data it is difficult to be certain
that that is the case.
Historically, both -mth
er/-muth
er and -mtel-mute- are derived from a verb
root *mut 'to sense, to feel, to hear', -mufier is derived from mut + her
'passive', whereas -mute- lacks the passive element. In both instances the loss of
the vowel -u- results from an analogic process. Originally, mut must have been a
full, subordinating verb, but at some point in the history of Wintun it was
syntagmatically reanalyzed as a verb suffix in the evidential construction. When
this happened, the mut morph fell into a verb suffix position class where it could
be confused with the -ml-mu subjunctive suffix, which shows a regular mor-
phophonemic alternation in Patwin. That morphophonemic alternation was then
overgeneralized analogically to apply to the evidential suffixes -muth
er and
-mute- as well. The Wintu -n^er is merely the result of a nasal assimilation
subsequent to syncopation of the -u- vowel at some Pre-Wintu stage.
The fourth evidential (or validational) in (14), -nPal-mu*a, can also be
glossed 'must have . . .' Morphologically, it is derived from the subjunctive
suffix -ml-mu plus the -?« 'to have' auxiliary. -mPal-miPa implies certain or
near certain knowledge based on inference. Like -mtel-mute- it seems to occur
only in irrealis, £a-marked clauses and to be functioning as an epistemic modal
'must' as much as an evidential:
(WPCC) (20a) po-ka na-no hiti- harme-nPa.
somebody-IRR. my beads take-must
'Someone must have taken my beads.'
Whistler: Evidentials in Patwin 73
(20b) he--tuka har-mw'a ka th
ayču.
where-to go-must IRR. my grandson
'I wonder where my grandson could be.'
(20a) shows the basic pattern for -rrPal-miPa, where the inference is strongly
asserted, i.e. 'I'm sure that . . .'In (20b), we have a more idiomatic usage in a
rhetorical question, literally, 'My grandson must have gone to where (I won­
der).' Such rhetorical usage may call into question the analysis oî-rrPal-miPa as
an evidential; the issue is whether this is basically an epistemic modal (or valida-
tional) which takes an incidental evidential function because it indicates degree
of speaker certainty, or whether it is basically an inferential evidential which
incidentally functions like an epistemic modal. It is not clear how the limited data
regarding this suffix could resolve this question, however.
The final Patwin suffix which can be argued to have evidential function is
-morPa 'to seem as if, to appear to be'. morPa as a full verb means 'to do like, to
be like . . .' and is derived from an unclear root plus the -'a 'to have' auxiliary.
-morPa as an evidential suffix indicates inference based on appearance.
(WPCC) (21) nay co-wi-la pi coyi-morfa-sa.
I (GEN.) look at-if he sick-seem as if-DEF. PAST
'It seems to me that he's [gotten] sick.'
Whether this suffix is functioning as a true evidential or not is also unclear from
the limited data.
GENERAL SYSTEMATIC AND HISTORICAL CONSIDERATIONS
As the discussion of the previous section should indicate, the line between
evidential and nonevidential in Patwin is often hard to draw. The evidential
elements overlap in function with Patwin modes, epistemic modals, and ten­
se/aspect marking. In many instances evidential functions can be analyzed as
secondary to some other function expressed by the suffix, auxiliary, or clitic in
question. Thus, there is little reason to posit the category 'evidential' as con­
stituting a formal/functional subsystem in Patwin grammar in the same sense
that, for example, nominal case marking constitutes a grammatical subsystem.
Rather, evidential status of the predicate is indicated by co-opting available
morphological pieces of susceptible semantics (e.g. modals, auxiliary verbs 'to
be', 'to say', etc.) and using them to express, by implication usually, the source
of a speaker's knowledge. In this respect Patwin evidentials typologically resem­
ble the covert evidential categories of a language like English more than the
highly organized and specialized, overt and formal evidential categories of, for
example, the Pomoan languages (see Oswalt, this volume).
74 Evidentially in North and South America
Historically, only a few of the Patwin evidential analyzed in this paper can be
projected back to a Proto-Wintun stage. Briefly, the reconstructible forms and
functions are as follows:
1. *-mut-her, probably functioning as a nonvisual sensory or inferential evi-
dential. The Patwin data might indicate that a form *-mut (without the
passive *-her) was also present in Proto-Wintun functioning as an evidential
of some sort.
2. *-behl-boh, probably functioning primarily as an imperfective auxiliary
with a secondary function (or pseudo-function ?) as a visual sensory
evidential.
3. *-?M 'to say' is of Proto-Wintun age and appears in the quotative systems of
both Patwin and Wintu, but the elaboration of a quotative mode based on the
subjunctive -ml-mu seems to have been innovative in Patwin.
Other Wintu evidentials consist of morphological material which probably
can be matched with some elements in Patwin, but considerable changes in form
and function have occurred in both languages. No further evidentials seem to be
reconstructible for Proto-Wintun. As a result, I must conclude that most of the
Patwin evidentials analyzed above are recent functional developments in Patwin,
and this conclusion is further supported by the morphological transparency of the
forms analyzed.
REFERENCES
Lee, Dorothy Demetracopoulou. 1944. Linguistic Reflection of Wintu- Thought. UAL 10:181-187.
Oswalt, Robert. "The Evidentials of Kashaya". [this volume]
Pitkin, Harvey. 1963. Wintu grammar. Ph.D. dissertation. University of California, Berkeley,
dissertation.
Radin, Paul. 1932. Grammar and lexicon of th
ebth
i Hill Patwin. Unpublished manuscript. Phila-
delphia: American Philosophical Society archives.
Schlichter, Alice. "The Origins and Deictic Nature of Wintu Evidentials." [this volume]
Whistler, Kenneth. 1977. 'Bear and Deer Children'. Northern California texts, ed. by V. Golla & S.
Silver. (IJAL-NATS Vol. 2(2), 158-178.)
1978. 'Mink, Bullethawk and Coyote'. Coyote stories, ed. by W. Bright. (IJAL-NATS
Monograph No. 1, 51-61.)
1980. Proto-Wintun kin classification: A case study in reconstruction of a complex seman-
tic system. University of California, Berkeley, dissertation.
Whistler, Kenneth. 1981. Ablaut in Hill Patwin. Survey of California and other Indian languages,
report no. 1, ed. by A. Schlichter, W. Chafe, & L. Hinton, 42-94. Berkeley: Dept. of
Linguistics, Univ. of California, Berkeley.
FIVE
The Development of Evidentials
in Maricopa
Lynn Gordon
Washington State University
Maricopa,1
unlike the other languages in the Yuman family,2
has a rather com­
plex set of evidential suffixes which are transparently derived from independent
1
An earlier version of this paper was given at the 1980 Yuman/Hokan Languages Workshop and
appeared in Gordon 1981.
Maricopa is a Yuman language of the River branch, most closely related to Mojave and Yuma.
The data and analysis presented in this paper come from Gordon 1980a. The data are presented in
practical orthography: VV = [V:]; ch = [č]; sh = [s]; d = [6]; ny = [n?];fry= [k*]; ly = [1*]; kw =
[kw
]; ' = p]; h = [x]. The abbreviations used in this paper are: 1 = first person; 2 = second person; 3
= third person; 1/2 = first person subject/second person object, etc.; ASP = neutral realis aspect;
DEM = demonstrative; DU = dual; DS = different subject; HR=EV = nonsight sensory evidential;
INC = incompletive; INTNS = intensifier; IRR = irrealis; NEG = negative; PERF = perfective; PL
= plural; SEE=EV = sight sensory evidential; SJ = subject; SS = same subject; s.t. = something
(unspecified argument).
1 am grateful to my Maricopa teachers, Pollyanna Heath and Jasper Donahue, for their patience
and skill. Most of the data included in this paper are from Ms. Heath. I have discussed these data at
different times with Pamela Munro, Margaret Langdon, Sandra Thompson, Bonnie Glover, and
Heather Hardy, and I would like to thank them for their interest and suggestions.
2
Other Yuman languages have not been reported to have this kind of evidential system, i.e. a
system which is transparently derived from a complex source and which is used to express the source
of the information conveyed by the sentence. Mojave, a language very closely related to Maricopa,
has a fixed construction which employs the verb iyuu 'see' (Pamela Munro, personal communica­
tion). The Mojave construction seems to be used to convey that the information in the sentence is
self-evident; the hearer, as well as the speaker, should have been able to observe it. This is different
from the Maricopa construction under discussion; in Maricopa, the sight evidential which involves
the verb yuu 'see' is used specifically when only the speaker and not the hearer could have directly
observed the event expressed in the sentence. The Mojave construction is more difficult to analyze
since it is more complex: the verb 'see' is typically affixed or cliticized to an existential auxiliary and
't bears a complex suffix (which has has not been unambiguously identified), as in
(i) Utuyv-k ido-h m-iyuu-mpk.
pregnant-SS be-IRR 2-see-???
'She is pregnant.'
75
76 Evidentialify in North and South America
verbs. These evidential suffixes indicate the sensory source of the informations
contained in the sentence. Similarly, Maricopa has developed a reportative clitic
derived from the independent verb meaning 'say'. These two sets of construc-
tions illustrate clearly the evolution of evidential markers from independent
verbs.3
Aspect and mood in Maricopa are marked by a complex set of suffixes,
auxiliary verbs, and subordination constructions.4
The primary aspect/mood
markers are the final suffixes on main verbs. The verb has pronominal prefixes
which indicate the person of its subject (and object, if the verb is transitive). The
structure of the typical verb can be seen in the following:
(1) '-iima-k.
1-dance-ASP
'I danced.' or 'I am dancing.'
(2) 'nym-aham-m.
2/1-hit-ASP
'You hit me.'
(3) Maa-uum.
eat-INC
'He will eat it.'5
3
Note that this evolution involves the change of a main verb into a suffix or clitic, not a
particularly uncommon or undocumented change (cf., for example, Given 1979). In this construc-
tion, the old main verb (the new clitic or suffix), however, is a verb which does not have the same
subject as the new main verb nor does it have the new main clause as its subject. The sensory
evidentials and the reportative clitic have clearly different subjects from that of the main clause and
from the main clause itself. As will be demonstrated, the original subject of the original verb which
developed into the evidential suffix is first person singular. The subject of the old 'say' verb of the
reportative is nonspecific, but clearly it is personal, rather than clausal, and not the same as the
subject of the other clause.
4
Aspect and mood are primarily marked by final suffixes on the verb of an independent clause.
More complex moods and aspects are expressed using auxiliary constructions and complex sen-
tences. Inferential constructions include the enclitic shaa and several main and auxiliary verb con-
structions. The enclitic shaa indicates that the sentence to which it is attached is the belief, inference
or expectation of the speaker. It is cliticized to the final verb of the main clause of a sentence which is
marked with either realis -k or -m or incompletive -uum (cf. Gordon 1980a). Other inferential
constructions use the sensory verbs yuu 'see' and 'av 'hear, sense' to indicate the perceptual source
of the information on which the speaker bases his or her inference. Another set of inferential
constructions uses the existential verbs duu 'be', wii 'do', and '» 'say'. These verbs are used to
indicate how the event on which the speaker's inference is based is manifested.
5
The first person subject prefix '- (intransitive and transitive with a third person object) is
obligatory for most speakers on verbs with vowel-initial and glide-initial stems. With consonant-
initial stems, '- is optional; thus the unmarked form is ambiguous between third person subject and
first person subject.
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 77
Final suffixes can be used to indicate the source of the information presented
in the sentence, -(k)'yuu 'sight evidential' and -(k)'a 'hearing and other non-
visual sensory evidential' are suffixed to verbs to mark that the information
expressed in the sentence is part of the first-hand knowledge of the speaker.
-(k)'yuu is found on the final main verb of a sentence in which the speaker is
asserting something which he or she knows about on the basis of having directly
seen the event expressed in the sentence, as in
(4) M-iima-'yuu.
2-dance-SEE=EV
'You danced (I know because I saw it).'
(5) Iima-'yuu.
dance-SEE=EV
'He danced (I know because I saw it).'
(6) '-iima-k'yuu.
l-dance-*=SEE=EV
'I danced (for sure, >- the past).'
In (4) and (5) the suffix clearly indicates that the speaker saw the activity
expressed in the sentence. In (6), in which the subject of the sentence is first
person, the evidential sense is less central: when the subject of the verb is the
speaker, the evidential reading is typically redundant. (It would be uncommon
for a speaker not to be present at events in which he or she is a participant.)
Instead, the evidential suffix appears to indicate that the action or state has
already occurred.
Similarly -(k)'a is also used to mark that the information in the sentence is
from the speaker's first-hand knowledge, though in this case the knowledge is
gained not by having seen the event, but by having otherwise sensed (usually
heard) the event or state, as in
(7) M-ashvar-'a.
2-sing-HR=EV
'You sang (I know because I heard it).'
(8) Ashvar-'a.
sing-HR=EV
'He sang (I know because I heard it).'
(9) '-ashvar-k'a.
l-sing-k=HR=EV
'I sang (for sure, in the past; I heard/felt myself).'
Typically, though certainly not absolutely, -(k)'a is used on verbs of communica-
tion or of actions strongly associated with sound, as in (7-9).
Like -(k)'yuu, -(k)'a is used when the speaker is absolutely sure of the facts.
76 Evidenriality in North and South America
verbs. These evidential suffixes indicate the sensory source of the informations
contained in the sentence. Similarly, Maricopa has developed a reportative clitic
derived from the independent verb meaning 'say'. These two sets of construc-
tions illustrate clearly the evolution of evidential markers from independent
verbs.3
Aspect and mood in Maricopa are marked by a complex set of suffixes,
auxiliary verbs, and subordination constructions.4
The primary aspect/mood
markers are the final suffixes on main verbs. The verb has pronominal prefixes
which indicate the person of its subject (and object, if the verb is transitive). The
structure of the typical verb can be seen in the following:
(1) '-iima-k.
1-dance-ASP
'I danced.' or 'I am dancing.'
(2) ' nym-aham-m.
2/1-hit-ASP
'You hit me.'
(3) Maa-uum.
eat-INC
'He will eat it.'5
3
Note that this evolution involves the change of a main verb into a suffix or clitic, not a
particularly uncommon or undocumented change (cf., for example, Givon 1979). In this construc-
tion, the old main verb (the new clitic or suffix), however, is a verb which does not have the same
subject as the new main verb nor does it have the new main clause as its subject. The sensory
evidentials and the reportative clitic have clearly different subjects from that of the main clause and
from the main clause itself. As will be demonstrated, the original subject of the original verb which
developed into the evidential suffix is first person singular. The subject of the old 'say' verb of the
reportative is nonspecific, but clearly it is personal, rather than clausal, and not the same as the
subject of the other clause.
4
Aspect and mood are primarily marked by final suffixes on the verb of an independent clause.
More complex moods and aspects are expressed using auxiliary constructions and complex sen-
tences. Inferential constructions include the enclitic shaa and several main and auxiliary verb con-
structions. The enclitic shaa indicates that the sentence to which it is attached is the belief, inference
or expectation of the speaker. It is cliticized to the final verb of the main clause of a sentence which is
marked with either realis -k or -m or incompletive -uum (cf. Gordon 1980a). Other inferential
constructions use the sensory verbs yuu 'see' and 'av 'hear, sense' to indicate the perceptual source
of the information on which the speaker bases his or her inference. Another set of inferential
constructions uses the existential verbs duu 'be', wii 'do', and 'ii 'say'. These verbs are used to
indicate how the event on which the speaker's inference is based is manifested.
5
The first person subject prefix '- (intransitive and transitive with a third person object) is
obligatory for most speakers on verbs with vowel-initial and glide-initial stems. With consonant-
initial stems, '- is optional; thus the unmarked form is ambiguous between third person subject and
first person subject.
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 77
Final suffixes can be used to indicate the source of the information presented
in the sentence, -(k)'yuu 'sight evidential' and -(k)'a 'hearing and other non-
visual sensory evidential' are suffixed to verbs to mark that the information
expressed in the sentence is part of the first-hand knowledge of the speaker.
-(k)'yuu is found on the final main verb of a sentence in which the speaker is
asserting something which he or she knows about on the basis of having directly
seen the event expressed in the sentence, as in
(4) M-iima-'yuu.
2-dance-SEE=EV
'You danced (I know because I saw it).'
(5) Iima-'yuu.
dance-SEE=EV
'He danced (I know because I saw it).'
(6) '-iima-k'yuu.
l-dance-*=SEE=EV
'I danced (for sure, <- the past).'
In (4) and (5) the suffix clearly indicates that the speaker saw the activity
expressed in the sentence. In (6), in which the subject of the sentence is first
person, the evidential sense is less central: when the subject of the verb is the
speaker, the evidential reading is typically redundant. (It would be uncommon
for a speaker not to be present at events in which he or she is a participant.)
Instead, the evidential suffix appears to indicate that the action or state has
already occurred.
Similarly -(k)'a is also used to mark that the information in the sentence is
from the speaker's first-hand knowledge, though in this case the knowledge is
gained not by having seen the event, but by having otherwise sensed (usually
heard) the event or state, as in
(7) M-ashvar-'a.
2-sing-HR=EV
'You sang (I know because I heard it).'
(8) Ashvar-'a.
sing-HR=EV
'He sang (I know because I heard it).'
(9) '-ashvar-k'a.
l-sing-k=HR=EV
'I sang (for sure, in the past; I heard/felt myself).'
Typically, though certainly not absolutely, -(k)'a is used on verbs of communica-
tion or of actions strongly associated with sound, as in (7-9).
Like -(k)'yuu, -(k)'a is used when the speaker is absolutely sure of the facts.
78 Evidentially in North and South America
Things which are sensed, though not seen, are as real as those which are directly
seen. The use of -(k)'a does not indicate that the speaker is making an inference
based on sensory evidence. This affix indicates that the speaker is a direct
witness of the event (even if not a direct EYE-witness).
When these suffixes are used on verbs which have a first person subject, the
evidential sense is less prominent and instead they convey a strong assertiveness
about the actual occurrence of the event expressed by the sentence. -(k)'a is less
likely to be used with a first person subject (and, in general, is less common than
-(k)'yuu with any verb). Possibly the most typical place for this affix is on verbs
of 'saying' which report information addressed to the speaker, as in
(10) Pam-sh 'i-m nyip ny-mhan-k ii-'a.6
Pam-SJ say-m me 3/l-like-£ say-HR=EV
'Pam told me that she likes me.'
Before I can account for the distribution of the sensory evidential forms with k
and those without k, more of the structure of the verb must be examined, -k and
-m in Maricopa are used as final suffixes on independent verbs of declarative
sentences, to indicate that the clause is realis and indicative (cf. (1-2)). The
speaker presents the information as fact, not as possibility, inference, or prefer-
ence, and with no hint as to its source or any doubt of its veracity. The event or
state that the verb expresses is completed if the action is punctual, as in (2) and
(11) 'iipaa-ny-sh puy-k.
man-DEM-SJ die-ASP
'The man died.' or 'The man is dead.'
If the action or state is not punctual, then the verb marked with the -k or -m
expresses an action which is either completed or ongoing, as in (1) and
(12) Mhay-ny-sh ny-ashham-k.
boy-DEM-SJ 3/1-beat-ASP
'The boy beat me up.' or 'The boy is beating me up.'
If the action is punctual (like those in (2) and (11)), the verb can only have a
completed reading (since it is marked with a realis suffix). If, as in (1) and (12),
the action is durative or iterative, then it can have either a completed or ongoing
6
The -k on the verb of the complement is discussed later in the paper. The verb 'ii-m 'say' varies
greatly in form: the vowel can be long or short; under certain circumstances the vowel can be lowered
and shortened or under other conditions replaced by aa; the initial ' is optional when no prefix
precedes it. (All of this variation is discussed in detail in Gordon 1980a). This accounts for the
difference in form between the two instances of 'say' in this example.
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 79
interpretation when marked with a realis suffix. This is a reasonable outcome of
the fact that a punctual event is real when it is accomplished. The momentaneous
nature of a punctual action entails that its onset and its accomplishment are
inseparable. A progressive punctual verb is unaccomplished or irrealis or iter-
ative. In Maricopa puy-k 'die' (as in (11)) and aham-m 'hit' (as in (2)) are
punctual (non-iterative) verbs.
On the other hand, a durative event or state is to some extent accomplished
when it is begun. Its onset and completion are separable; from its onset a certain
amount of the event or state is real. Thus (1) and (12) can be interpreted as either
completed or ongoing. All the realis suffix implies is that some portion of the
event or state has held or is holding. If any portion of a punctual action holds, all
of it must hold. Compare (2) and (12): the difference between them is that the
verb in (12) is iterative (and, therefore, extendable over time), while in (2) the
verb is only interprétable as punctual (realis and, therefore, completed). In (11)
the verb is puy-k 'die' (death is real only when someone has died); on the other
hand, in (1) the verb is iima-k 'dance' (the moment one has taken even one step,
the dancing is real).
In Maricopa the selection of -k or -m as a final main verb suffix is lexically
determined, based on the morpheme which immediately precedes the final suf-
fix.7
This morpheme may be the verb root, as in
(13a) Vtay-m.
big-ASP
'It is big.' or 'It was big.'
(13b) Hot-k.
good-ASP
'It is good. ' or 'It was good'
or it can be any one of a number of nonfinal suffixes, as in
(14a) Vtay-haay-k.
big-yet-ASP
'It is still big.'
7
This is clearly not a phonologically based distribution since it is possible to find pairs of
homophonous stems which differ in the assignment of final realis marker. Such pairs include:
chaa-m 'put' chaa-k 'read, count'
shmaa-m 'sleep' shmaa-k 'dream'
chem-m 'put' chem-k 'make a mistake'
"ther possible criteria for predicting the assignment of final realis suffix also fail—even verbs which
are derived from nouns using the same morphological process (affixation of -y) may fall into different
classes, e.g. hay-m 'damp' (from ha 'water') and mthay-k 'windy' (from mtha 'wind').
80 Evidentlality in North and South America
(14b) Hot-haay-k,
good-yet-ASP
'It is still good'
(15a) Vtay-hot-m.
big-INTNS-ASP
'It is very big.'
(15b) Hot-hot-m.
good-INTNS-ASP
'It is very good.'
In (13) the verb root determines which final suffix the verb takes; in (13a) the
final suffix is -m, while in (13b) it is -k. In (14) and (15) the nonfinal suffixes
determine the choice of final suffix.8
There appears to be no feature or set of features, whether phonological,
syntactic, or semantic, which distinguishes -m verbs (verb forms which are
marked with -m as their final realis suffix) from -k verbs (verb forms which are
marked with -k as their final realis suffix). Both sets of verbs include both active
and stative, transitive and intransitive, basic and derived forms.9
On verbs of certain subordinate clauses of complex sentences, -k is used to
signal that the verb has the same subject as the clause to which it is subordinate,
as in
(16) 'ayM
M nya-rav-k yoq-k.
s.t. when-hurt-SS vomit-ASP
'When he; was sick, hej threw up'
(17) Kafe 'sish-k pastel '-mash-k.
coffee 1-drink+DU-SS pie 1-eat+DU-ASP
'We drank coffee and ate pie.'
-m is suffixed to a subordinate verb to indicate that the verb has a different
subject from that of the clause to which it is subordinate, as in
(18) 'ayuu nya-rav-m yoq-k.
s.t. when-hurt-DS vomit-ASP
'When hej was sick, he^ threw up.' (i ¥= j)
8
Note that hot, the verb meaning 'good', takes -k, while hot the nonfinal intensifying suffix
(which seems transparently derived from the verb) takes -m.
9
This distinction shows up to a lesser extent in Yuma. In Yuma (Halpern 1947), cognates of a
small subset of -m verbs in Maricopa are -m verbs, i.e. marked with -m as a final aspect suffix and
with -m in both same and different subject contexts.
Munro (1981a) shows that Mojave has a more complex system which involves some of the same
features as the Maricopa system, but which, for one thing, has more verb classes. Again the -m verbs
in Mojave discovered so far are cognate to a subset of the -m verbs in Maricopa.
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 81
(19) Kafe 'sish-m pastel mash-k.
coffee 1-drink+DU-DS pie eat+DU-ASP
'We drank coffee and they ate pie.'
This marking of verbs of subordinate clauses as to whether their subjects are the
same as or different from the subject of some other clause in the sentence is in
keeping with what is to be expected from a switch reference system (cf. Jacobsen
1967), particularly the Yuman switch reference system (cf. Langdon and Munro
1979; Munro 1976a and b; Winter 1976).
-m verbs do not participate in the switch reference system. None of them can
be marked with -k 'same subject'; they are always marked with -m, even when
the same subject suffix might be expected, as in
(20) Bonnie-sh 'ayuu nya-maa-m onyor chaa-k.
Bonnie-SJ s.t. when-eat-m book read-ASP
'Bonnie; reads while she^ eats.'
Thus in (20) even though the verb of the dependent clause is marked with -m, the
subjects of the two clauses can be interpreted as being the same or different. Such
verbs must be marked with -m in switch-referencing contexts,10
regardless of
what the subjects of the clauses are.
In Maricopa the sensory evidential suffixes and the perfective suffixes each
have two forms, one with a -k and one without a -k, as shown in Table 1. (The
perfective suffixes -(k)sh and -(k)sha are used on present or past states or com-
pleted actions.)
As exemplified in (6) and (9), the sensory evidential suffixes with k are used
when the subject is first person. In fact the constraint is stronger than this; as well
as having a first person subject, the verb must also be a -k verb if it is to be
marked with -k'yuu or k'a. The same pattern of distribution is found with the
perfective suffixes as in
(21a) '-iima-ksh.
1-dance-1PERF
"I danced.'
(21b) M-iima-sh.
2-dance-PERF
"You danced.'
(21c) lima-sh.
dance-PERF
'He danced.'
10
Switch reference suffixes are used on verbs in dependent clauses of all types: complement
clauses, adverbial clauses (temporal, causal, etc.) and certain modifying clauses. Switch reference
•narking is never used with case marking on the same verb.
82 Evidentiality in North and South America
Table 1. Forms of Sensory Evidential
with
•k
without
-k
sight evidential -k'yuu
other sense evidential -k'a
-yuu
-'a
In the cases below (22a-f ), the sentences contain -m verbs and therefore cannot
be marked with -k'yuu or -k'a regardless of what the subject of the verb is.
(22a) '-kyaa-'yuu.
l-shoot-SEE=EV
'I shot him.'
(22b) M-kyaa-'yuu.
2-shoot-SEE=EV
'You shot him.'
(22c) Kyaa-'yuu.
shoot-SEE=EV
'He/I shot him.'
(22d) '-mii-'a.
l-cry-HR=EV
'I cried.'
(22e) M-mii-'a.
2-cry-HR=EV
'You cried.'
(22f) Mii-'a.
cry-HR=EV
'He/I cried.'
This association of -k'yuu and -k'a with -k verbs suggests that the k in these
suffixes is segmentable and related to either the switch reference marking -k or
the aspect/mood marking -k. Since the presence of k is conditioned not only by
the kind of verb (-k verb or -m verb), but also by what the subject of the verb is, it
seems likely that the k found in the sensory evidential suffixes is related to the
switch reference system, which is also sensitive to the subject of the verb. Thus,
in (23), which has a -k verb with a first person subject, the k in -k'yuu can
tentatively be identified as the same subject suffix.
(23) Nyaa 'ayuu '-rav-k-'yuu.
I s.t. l-hurt-SS-SEE=EV
'I was sick.'
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 83
In (24), which has the same verb, but a third person subject, the k is not present.
(24) Pam-sh 'ayuu rav-'yuu.
Pam-SJ s.t. hurt-SEE=EV
'Pam was sick.'
In (25) and (26), which both contain -m verbs, it does not matter what the subject
is; as in the switch reference cases, these verbs cannot be marked with k.
(25) Nyaa '-wii-'yuu.
I l-do-SEE=EV
'I did it.'
(26) Pam-sh wii-'yuu.
Pam-SJ do-SEE=EV
'Pam did it. '
Further support for the hypothesis that the k in this construction is the same
subject suffix comes from the remainder of the sight evidential suffix. The sight
evidential suffix itself is 'yuu which is transparently related to the verb yuu-k
'see' with the first person prefix '-; this is compatible with the semantics since
this affix means that the event took place within the sight of the speaker. In other
words, the sight evidential contains the morphemes for 'I see'.
In complex sentences which have a sensory verb as their main verb and a
clausal object, the verb of the complement clause is marked with a switch
reference suffix. In the following examples, this complex construction is shown
with the sensory verb yuu-k 'see' with complement clauses which have the same
subject (as in (27a)) and different subjects (as in (27b-c)).
(27a) '-iima-k '-yuu-k.
1-dance-SS 1-see-ASP
'I saw myself dance.' (cf. (6))
(27b) M-iima-m '-yuu-k.
2-dance-DS 1-see-ASP
'I saw you dance.' (cf. (4))
(27c) Iima-m '-yuu-k.
dance-DS 1-see-ASP
'I saw him dance.' (cf. (5))
If one compared (27a-c) to the parallel evidential-marked verbs in (4), (5) and
(6), it is clear that the -k in the evidential form is associated with -k 'same
subject' in the complex sentence, while 0 in the evidential form is associated
with -m 'different subject' in the complex sentnece.
Similarly, with verbs which do not participate in switch reference, -m on the
84 Evidentiality in North and South America
complement clause of the complex sentence is parallel to 0 in the evidential-
marked forms.11
Compare (21a-c) above with (28a-c):
(28a) '-kyaa-m '-yuu-k.
1-shoot-m 1-see-ASP
'I saw myself shoot him. '
(28b) M-kyaa-m '-yuu-k.
2-shoot-m 1-see-ASP
'I saw you shoot him.'
(28c) Kyaa-m '-yuu-k.
shoot-w 1-see-ASP
'I saw him shoot him. '
Thus, yuu-k 'see' is a verb which takes switch-reference marked comple-
ments. Complements of 'yuu T see' themselves have first person subject obli-
gatorily marked with -k (if the verb of the complement is a -k verb). This
supports the identification of the k in the sight evidential with the same sub-
ject -k.
A parallel relationship can be traced for -k'a and -'a with respect to the verb
'av-k 'hear, sense'. The distribution of the form with k and that without k is the
same as described above for -k'yuu and -'yuu. Like yuu-k 'see', 'av-k 'hear' is a
verb which takes a switch-reference marked complement clause, 'av-k is some-
what more distant phonologically from its affixal counterpart 'a than the first
person verb of 'seeing' is from the sight evidential. There is no explicit first
person '- prefix on the hearing evidential. This seems a very slight change given
the otherwise documented general process of eliminating first person '- on conso-
nant-initial verb stems in maricopa. The loss of v is not particularly difficult to
account for; many v's are lost in many contexts.12
The evidential forms, unlike their complex counterparts, do not have as their
main assertion that the speaker saw or heard something; instead, the main asser-
tion is that made by the verb to which the evidential is affixed. The evidential
marking sets the verb in time and space with regard to the speaker.
The main semantic force of these affixes as directly reported by speakers is
that the clauses to which they are affixed assert something which truly happened
in the past. (An evidential is not used on a verb to express an action or state
which is presently going on within the sight or hearing of the speaker; that would
presumably also be within the sight or hearing of the person the speaker is
' ' Note that 0 is parallel to both the productively used different subject -m and the grammatically
fixed -m.
12
The v usually lost is the medio-passive suffix. As pointed out by Munro (1981b and 1982), it
seems that 'hear' in the Yuman languages is the medio-passive form of 'say'; in Maricopa, the
transitive form of 'say' is 'aa-m and the medio-passive form 'a(a)v would be homophonous with 'av
'hear, sense'.
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 85
addressing as well. Evidential suffixes are never obligatory.) More than this, of
course, these suffixes reflect the actual sensory source of the information. These
suffixes have a kind of hierarchy for use: if an event is both seen and heard
(probably the most commonplace situation), then the sight evidential is used; the
hearing evidential is used only when the event is witnessed but not seen; the
direct perceptual source of the information can be hearing, feeling, or otherwise
sensing (but not seeing).
Evidential marking may seem odd on first person verbs, since, of course, one
is present at an event one participates in. However, we have already seen that it is
possible to assert that T saw or otherwise sensed 'myself do something (cf.
(27a) and (28a)). The natural infacnce of these evidentials is that something
truly happened in the past. With a first person subject, that aspect of the meaning
is central (the form of the witnessing is less important, as is the assumption of
direct observation, since they are part of the natural and predictable state of
affairs). When the subject is first person, the use of -k'yuu, in particular, marks
the assertion as more emphatically true and sets the event unambiguously in the
past. Neutral realis marking as in (1-2) and (15a-17b) does not necessarily
imply that the action/state expressed by the verb is in the past. Compare (29a)
and (29b):
(29a) Nyaa 'ayuu '-rav-k.
I s.t. 1-hurt-ASP
'I am/was sick.'
(29b) Nyaa 'ayuu '-rav-k='=yuu.
I s.t. l-hurt-SS=l=see
'I was sick.' (same as (23))
The verb marked with an evidential suffix can be negative; one can witness
something not happening, as in
(30) Waly-marsh-ma-' =yuu.
NEG-win+DU-NEG-1 =see
'They didn't win. '
The evidential itself cannot be negated, since the evidential sense is presup-
posed, not asserted. To assert that one did not witness something requires an
independent sensory verb, as in
(31) Marsh-m waly-'-yuu-ma-k.
win+DU-DS NEG-1-see-NEG-ASP
'I didn't see them win.'
The source of these evidential suffixes suggests a parallel source for -(k)sh
'perfective' and '(k)sha 'emphatic perfective' which demonstrate the same dis-
86 Evidentially in North and South America
tribution of k and 0 as the evidential suffixes. It seems likely that in the perfec-
tive suffixes as well, k is historically derived from the same subject suffix. This
leaves morphemes which cannot be related to any independent verb. The perfec-
tive suffixes, if they are related to any independent verbs, are so reduced that no
identification is possible. Note that as well as sharing the distribution of form
with the evidentials, the perfectives also share the semantic feature of basically
past time reference. Whatever the original verb was (or verbs were) in the
perfective constructions, all that is historically reconstructable of them now is
that they must have had first person subjects.
An interesting outcome of this grammaticization is that it gives Maricopa a set
of verbal forms in with the first person subject is, in effect, marked by the shape
of the suffix, rather than by a pronominal prefix or in addition to a pronominal
prefix. In four different, though related, aspect/moods the presence of the k in
the suffix identifies the verb as having a first person subject (though the absence
of k does not suffice to mark the verb as not having a first person subject if the
verb is an -m verb). This process of marking first person subject with the
presence of k in the evidential/perfective suffixes has been developing concur-
rently with the loss of the '- as a first person prefix.
Another grammaticized evidential construction is also derived from a com-
plex sentence. The reportative construction in Maricopa consists of a form of the
verb 'ii-m 'say', which is invariant and cliticized to the verb which precedes it;
the hearing evidential is affixed to the invariant 'say' form. This form, like the
sensory evidentials discussed above, is used exclusively on independent clauses.
The construction is used to indicate overtly that the speaker does not vouch for
the truth of the utterance, but instead is merely repeating something he or she has
heard spoken of.
(32) Bonnie-sh chuy-k-'ish-'a.
Bonnie-SJ marry-jfc-say+s/i-HR=EV
'(They said, I hear tell) Bonnie got married. '
The identification of 'ish (alternatively ish) as a form of 'say' is not based on
the phonological similarity of the two forms alone, since this verb has many
forms and this form 'ish, resembles a number of other morphemes {'ish 'unspec-
ified object, sh 'plural/dual suffix', sh 'perfective suffix', etc.). Morphosyntac-
tic evidence exists which indicates that this construction contains the verb 'say'
at some level.
'ii-m 'say', like the sensory verbs described above, is a verb which takes a
complement clause. Unlike the sensory verbs, however, 'say' takes a comple-
ment whose verb is not marked with switch-reference suffixes. Instead, realis
verbs of complements of 'ii-m 'say' are marked with the neutral realis suffixes -k
or -m, or with -k (which does not indicate same subject or ordinary aspect
marking). Clearly the -k does not indicate same subject in (33) below, since the
subjects of the two verbs are not the same under any analysis.
Gordon: The Development of Evidentials in Maricopa 87
(33) Bonnie-sh chuy-k uu'ish-k.
Bonnie-SJ marry-* say+PL-ASP
'They say Bonnie got married.'
Further evidence that this is not the same subject -k is that -m verbs (which are
never marked with the same subject suffix -k or the neutral aspect suffix -k) can
be marked with this -k, as in
(34) Pam-sh Bonnie tpuy-k uu'ish-k.
Pam-SJ Bonnie Vi\\-k say+PL-ASP
'They said that Pam killed Bonnie.'
-m verbs in such complements can also be marked with the realis -m suffix, as in
(35) Pam-sh Bonnie tpuy-m uu'ish-k.
Pam-SJ Bonnie kill-ASP say+PL-ASP
"They said Pam killed Bonnie.'
-k verbs in such complement clauses can never be marked with -m (whether as
different subject marker or as aspect marker). Compare (33) with
(36) *Bonnie-sh chuy-m uu'ish-k.
Bonnie-sh marry-m say+PL-ASP
This variation between -k and -m is found on -m verbs followed by a repor-
tative clitic. Compare the final suffixes on the lexical verbs in (37a) and (37b).
They show parallel structure to (34) and (35) above, which are complex sen-
tences with fullfledged 'say' verbs as the main verbs of the sentences.
(37a) Pam-sh Bonnie tpuy-k-'ish-'a.
Pam-SJ Bonnie kill-*-say+.sfc-HR=EV
'Pam killed Bonnie (I hear tell).'
(37b) Pam-sh Bonnie tpuy-m-'ish-'a
Pam-SJ Bonnie kill-m-say+j/!-HR=EV
'Pam killed Bonnie (I hear tell).'
Both the sensory evidential suffixes and the hearsay construction are still quite
transparent in their internal structure and both are clearly historically derived
from complex sources in Maricopa. In both cases an original main verb (in fact,
an original main clause with its own subject, first person in the sensory eviden-
tials and unspecified in the reportative clitic) has been reduced to a suffix or
clitic. Both constructions demonstrate parallel development of complex sen-
tences (of different kinds) containing two clauses to simple sentences in which
the main verb/clause has been reduced to being part of the verbal complex of the
earlier complement clause. Both constructions illustrate the use of productive
systematic morphology which has to some extent become fixed, producing a new
88 Evidentiality in North and South America
form which does not participate in the general syntactic or morphological sys-
tem. The grammatical fixing of these constructions has produced simple sen-
tences from complex sentences; simultaneously, it has complicated the grammar
by introducing new morphosyntactic categories.
REFERENCES
Givôn, Talmy. 1979. On understanding grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Gordon, Lynn. 1980a. Maricopa morphology and syntax. UCLA dissertation.
1980b. -k and -m in Maricopa. UCLA Papers in Linguistics, 8:119-144.
1981. Evidentials in Maricopa. Proceedings of the 1980 Hokan Languages Workshop,
(Occasional Papers on Linguistics 9) ed. by James Redden, 59-69. Carbondale: Department
of Linguistics, Southern Illinois University.
Halpern, A. M. 1947. Yuma V: Conjugation of the verb theme. IJAL 13: 92-107
Jacobsen, William, Jr. 1967. Switch-reference in Hokan-Coahuitecan. Studies in Southwestern
Ethnolinguistics, ed. by Dell Hymes and W. Bittle, 238-263. The Hague: Mouton.
Langdon, Margaret and Pamela Munro. 1979. Subject and (switch-) reference in Yuman. Folia
Linguistica 13: 321-344.
Munro, Pamela. 1976a. Mojave Syntax. New York: Garland.
1976b. Subject copying, auxiliarization, and predicate raising: The Mojave evidence. IJAL
42: 99-112.
1981a. Mojave k and m: It ain't necessarily so. Proceedings of the 1980 Hokan Languages
Workshop (Occasional Papers on Linguistics 9) ed. by James Redden, 124-129. Carbondale:
Department of Linguistics, Southern Illinois University.
1981b. Two notes on Yuman 'say'. Proceedings of the 1980 Hokan Languages Workshop
(Occasional Papers on Linguistics 9) ed. by James Redden, 70-77. Carbondale: Department
of Linguistics, Southern Illinois University.
1982. On the transitivity of 'say' verbs. Studies in Transitivity (Syntax and Semantics 15)
ed. by Paul J. Hopper and Sandra A. Thompson, 301-308 New York: Academic Press.
Winter, Wemer. 1976. Switch reference in Yuman languages. Hokan Studies ed. by Margaret
Langdon and Shirley Silver. (Janua Linguarum, series practica 181): 165-174. The Hague:
Mouton.
SIX
Evidential Diachrony in Northern
Iroquoian
Marianne Mithun
University of California, Santa Barbara
Over the past century, we have learned much about the mechanisms of both
grammatical and lexical change.1
Until now, however, there has been little
opportunity to compare diachronic processes in these two areas of linguistic
structure. Such a comparison would entail an understanding of the historical
development of at least two functionally equivalent but formally distinct sets of
devices, one grammatical, the other lexical. Evidential devices in the Northern
Iroquoian languages present an opportunity for just such comparison. All of
these languages are quite rich in both grammatical and lexical evidentials, some
of them cognate across the languages, presumably reflecting a common origin
and resistence to change, while others are unrelated, indicating areas of
innovation.
In order to compare systems, it is necessary first to define them. Evidential
markers qualify the reliability of information communicated in four primary
ways. They specify the source of evidence on which statements are based, their
degree of precision, their probability, and expectations concerning their
probability.
The specification of the SOURCE of information communicated allows a
speaker to abdicate some responsibility for its truth and permits the hearer to
evaluate its reliability for him or herself. The statement may be based on in-
ference. ('I guess he doesn't like Roquefort. ' 'That dress must have been awfully
expensive.') It may be based on appearance. ('He looks tired.' 'It smells like
something's burning.') The source may be hearsay. ('They say he supports six
former wives.' T hear she has twenty-seven cats.')
Another way to qualify the reliability of an utterance is to specify its DEGREE
OF PRECISION OR TRUTH or the appropriateness of a category label. The speaker
may be willing to take responsibility for considerable precision or truth. ('It hit
1
I am grateful to Wallace Chafe and Hanni Woodbury for their helpful comments on this paper.
89
90 Evidentiality in North and South America
me right here. ' 'We were completely exhausted. ') Alternatively, the precision or
truth may be hedged, for one of several reasons. The speaker may be unsure. ( 'It
weighs maybe four pounds.' 'He is somewhere around fifty.') It may be difficult
to find a better label. ('He sort of crawled toward the door.' 'It was sort of
greenish.') The speaker may feel that greater precision is unnecessary and irrele-
vant. ('I paid around five bucks for it.' 'She's somewhere in France.') Finally,
the speaker may hedge because a specific distance from the center of a category
is the best way to label something. ('It was nearly noon.' 'She was almost
shouting.')
A third way to qualify the reliability of a statement is to specify the
PROBABILITY of its truth. ('The bakery is probably closed by now.' 'She may
decide to return.' 'It is highly improbable that Sam is our thief.') By hedging
certainty, the speaker can again abdicate some responibility for truth. If 'the
bakery' is in fact open, 'she' does return, and 'Sam' is the thief after all, the
speaker still has not lied.
Finally, a speaker may specify EXPECTATIONS concerning the probability of a
statement. 'Sure enough' can indicate that an event was in accord with some
expectation. ('Sure enough, Sam failed the lie detector test.') 'After all' can
indicate a conflict with an expectation. ('Sam escaped after all.')
In both English and the Iroquoian languages, a single marker often serves
several of these functions, either simultaneously or with disambiguation from
context. The context may be pragmatic, or linguistic, i.e. a slightly different
construction. Consider English 'seem'. It can indicate that a statement is based
on appearance. ('Sam seems tired'.) This specification of source can hedge
probability. I should not be surprised, or held to be lying if in fact Sam is not
tired at all, but rather dislikes his companion. With a slightly different construc-
tion, 'seem' can indicate hearsay. ('It seems that Sam's in the hospital.') 'Must'
can indicate both inference and high probability. If I look at your wet coat and
say 'It must be raining', I indicate both that I am convinced, and that my
conclusion is based on inference. 'Suppose' can indicate both hearsay and in-
ference. ('It is supposed to rain tonight.' 'I suppose you won't visit your grand-
mother today. ') 'Maybe' is used both to hedge precision ( 'He weighs maybe two
hundred pounds.') and to lower probability ('Maybe he'll return the money.')-
'Sure' can be used to emphasize degree ('Sam sure likes pancakes. '), to heighten
probability ('He is sure to return the money.'), and, with 'enough', to emphasize
both reliability and accord with expectation ('Sure enough, Sam DID return the
money.'). This is a pervasive pattern among evidential markers. A given marker
will very often serve several of the four functions listed above, simultaneously,
varying with context, or with a change in the grammatical structure of which it is
a part.
Exactly the same fluidity pervades the Iroquoian evidential systems. In
Cayuga, for example, an experiential particle à:yç:' 'it seems' indicates that a
statement is based on appearance.
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 91
(1) C. A.yç:' katsihyô.t ho'tç' ne' onâ'ta:'.
it-seems knob-stands kind the bread
'These look like homemade biscuits.'
This experiential particle is also exploited to hedge both precision and certainty.
(2) C. A.yç:' tekayehstç ne' teyot'akçhny'akçh.
it-seems it-is-mixed the ash-is-cut-off
'It is sort of mixed with grey.'
(3) C. Kwe:k0 akatehsrçnihs'§ a.yç:' ô.nçh.
all I-am-ready it-seems now
'1 guess I am about ready now.'
This hedging function permits â:yç:' to serve as a marker of courtesy. It is more
polite to suggest than to assert.
(4) C. Wçhnihfri.yô â:yç:'.
nice-day it-seems
'It looks like a nice day.' (Said when the sun is shining brightly, the
temperature is perfect, and there is no cloud in the sky.)
Cayuga also has an inferential particle Q. (The particle is currently migrating
toward suffix status.)
(5) C. 0:nç'g_ hne:' kyokhwâi'.
now this there-food-is-cooked
'The food should be cooked by now.'
This inferential particle is also used to hedge precision and certainty.
(6) C. I:wi: ahsç nikaya.ké: 'Q_ a.kakwé.nï.
I-think 3 so-bags-many it-should-suffice
'I think about three bags should suffice.'
(7) C. Tsisa'nikçhç'g kçh?
your-mind-settled-again?
'Did you perhaps forget?'
A Cayuga particle tô.kçhs 'sure' can qualify degree, certainty, and
expectation.
(8) C. O.nç tô.kçhs akatghswé'tanih.
now sure I-am-hungry
'I'm really hungry now.'
(9) C. Tô.kçhs hwa' tha n'ahd.ye:'.
sure this-time there so-he-did
92 Evidentially in North and South America
'In fact, he did do it this time.' (He always promises, but never comes
through. This time, he did.)
Not unrelated to this synchronic fluidity is the fact that evidential markers
shift among these four functions over time. Particles which signal one distinction
in one language, will be cognate to markers in other languages with different
evidential functions. The particle se' in Cayuga, for example, indicates that a
statement is true and contrary to expectation.
(10) C. Hakyé: s£_.
he-is-awake
'He is awake.' (There is no need to tell her to wake him up.)
(11) C. O.nç s£_ ak'ni.khç'.
already I-sewed-it
T already sewed it.' (So don't tell me to do it now.)
In Oneida, however, this particle emphasizes precision.
(12) Oe. Yah. s£_ tha:yekwe:ni':.
not could-she-do-it
'She just could not do it at all.'
(13) Oe. Nv se^_ ok tayutâhsawv'.
then just she-began
'She started right in.' (She began right away.)
This synchronic and diachronic fluidity indicates that these distinctions should
not be treated in isolation from one another, but rather must be considered
components of a single, complex system.
Now, in order to identify linguistic change, one must compare at least two
stages in the development of a language or family. To compare CHANGES, it is
necessary to compare comparisons, which requires more stages. As can be seen
in Figure 1, the nature of the genetic relationships among the Northern Iroquoian
languages permits the reconstruction of five different stages in the development
of the family: Proto-Northern-Iroquoian (PNI), Proto-Lake-Iroquoian (PLI), Pro-
to-inner-Iroquois (PII), Proto-Western-Iroquois (PWI), and Proto-Eastern-Iro-
quois (PEI).2
In the sections which follow, the development of three formally distinct but
2
For clarity, Figure 1 shows only those languages considered in this paper. Another Inner
Iroquois language, Onondaga, is well documented, but, because of its relationship to the other
languages, its inclusion here would not contribute to the arguments presented. Other Northern
Iroquoian languages, Susquehannock, Huron, Erie, Wenro, Petun, Neutral, and Nottoway, are not
sufficiently well documented textually to shed light on comparative evidentiality.
The relationship of Cayuga to the other languages is probably somewhat more complex than
shown by the diagram. In particular, as shown by Wallace Chafe and Michael Foster (1981), Cayuga
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 93
Proto-Northern-Iroquoian (PNI)
-Iroquoian
'-Inner-Iroquois (PII)
Tuscarora Wyandot Seneca Cayuga Oneida Mohawk
Figure 1. Genetic relationships among Northern Iroquoian languages
functionally equivalent sets of devices will be traced: evidential affixes, predi-
cates, and particles. It will be shown that they differ significantly in their re-
sistance to change, and that these differences may be attributed to their forms.
EVIDENTIAL AFFIXES
The Northern Iroquoian languages contain several morphological devices for
indicating the reliability of predications. They appear to be quite stable over
time, perhaps due to their status as members of closed sets.
All of the languages share a cognate tense system which distinguishes past
punctual, future punctual, and optative punctual events. The future and optative
markers also serve to distinguish the probability of events which have not yet
occurred. The future prefix, PNI *e- (T., Oe., M. v-, W. e-, S., C. ç-) indicates
that an event is considered certain to happen. The optative prefix, PNI *a:-/aç-
(T. a-lary-, W., Oe., M. a:-lay-, S., C. a:-laç-) indicates that it might, should,
or could occur. (The favored reading depends upon the meaning of the verb and
the context.) Compare the pairs of verbs below.3
may have separated earlier from the main branch of Northern Iroquoian, then rejoined Seneca at a
later date before separating again. Since this issue does not affect the argument presented here, the
representation of the relationship has been schematically simplified.
Wyandot is actually the descendant of a set of probably closely related languages, including
dialects of Huron, Petun, and perhaps Neutral, Wenro, and Erie. The exact status of these last
•anguages is unclear, due to a lack of documentation before their disappearance.
The data throughout the paper are from the following sources. The Tuscarora, abbreviated T.,
•s from the late Edith Jonathan and the late Elton Green, of Lewiston, New York. The Wyandot (W.),
now extinct, is drawn from texts recorded by Marius Barbeau in 1911-1912 and published in
Barbeau (1960). The Seneca (S.) is from my notes from Myrtle Peterson, of Steamburg, New York
(Allegany), Sandy Crouse, of Salamanca (Allegany), Hazel Thompson, of Steamburg (Allegany),
and from Chafe (1967). The Cayuga (C.) is from Reginald Henry and Jim Skye of Six Nations,
Ontario. The Oneida (Oe.) is from Richard Chrisjohn of Red Hook, New York, Winnie Jacobs, of
94 Evidentiality in North and South America
(14) T. vhratshù.ri' 'he will eat'
ahratshù.ri' 'he might/should/would eat'
(15) W. e.ja.jii' 'he will kill you'
aujàjû' 'he might kill you'
(16) S. ekhnQhkwa'tsihsakha' 'I will go look for medicine'
ajchnçhhvâ' tsihsa.kha' 'I should go look for medicine'
(17) C. ekatekhç.nï 'I will eat'
a^kate.khg.nï 'I should/might/would eat'
(18) Oe. vkatolâtha' 'I'll go hunting'
a.katolâtha' 'I should/might/would go hunting'
(19) M. vkatd.wv 'I will take a bath'
ajcatâ.wv' 'I should take a bath'
The future prefix also occurs with events which are considered predictable be-
cause they happen so often or because they are the recognized effect of a cause.
(20) T. vQhrâhku' arvh vkheyatkâhri'G.
he-will-go-home if I-will-tell-him
'He will go home if I tell him to.'
(21) W. Tehstçt ndayémçh ey^mght wâ'ja'.
you-will-return the-mine I-will-give you a-little
'If you go back, I will give you a little of mine.'
(22) S. Ka:nyô' çwgkatkangnChe't o.nç wa:e çke'sehtâ:ni:ng'.
when I-will-be-rich then before I-will-car-buy
'When I'm rich, I'll buy a car.'
(23) C. KanghskQ: çkhne.sé.k kyç:kwâ' çyostàgti'.
house-in we-will-stay if it-will-rain
"We'll stay indoors if it rains.'
(24) Oe. Ka'ikv na yetshiyoktiha' kanyô yhsélheke' kwah ik$
this they-you-child if you-will-want very it
yhotï nikuhlahnilûhake' kvh tha katï ni.yôt tsi
their-minds-will-be-strong here there so such that
vhuwatilihyni.
they-will teach them
Oneida, New York, Georgina Nicholas of Southwold, Ontario, and texts published by Floyd Louns-
bury in his Oneida verb morphology (1953), from a text published by Clifford Abbott and Lawrence
Johns, in Mithun and Woodbury (1980), and from texts told by Georgina Nicholas and published by
Karin Michelson (1981). The Mohawk (M.) is from Annette Jacobs, Rita Phillips, Josephine Home,
Carolee Jacobs, and Verna Jacobs, of Caughnawaga, Quebec, and from Mary MacDonald, of
Akwesasne, New York. I am very grateful to all of these people, who so patiently and generously
contributed their expertise.
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 95
'This is the way it was: if you wanted your children to have strong
minds, this is the way you would teach them.'
Kwah tsï nikû: vtyutlataM: ohwistano.lû:
just so how-many she-will take steps precious-metal
ki' thô vkayv.tâhne.
just there it-will-there
'Every step she takes there will be a silver coin.'
Awvhniserakwé.ku vkutihû.take' nà.ku ne kwâ.ti.
all-day they-will-eat-grass under the side
'All day long, they (the cows) would graze on the east side.'
Toka' ytéhsya'ke' sanûhkwis nô.nv orâhkwase' svha
if you-will-cut your-hair the-then new-moon more
yohsno.re' ysewatehyâ.ru'.
it-is-fast it-will-grow-back
'If you cut your hair during the new moon, it will grow back much
faster.'
The optative is used with irrealis constructions.
(28) T. Thaka'nyè.rvh ayutè.nv:'.
I-would-do-so it-would-be-sunny
'I wish it were sunny.'
(29) T. Arvh arvkwatsû'khu.k akhnhsâ.tya't.
if I-would-be-rich I-would-house-buy
'If I were rich, I would buy a house.'
(30) W. Tq'q ng: u:sask(:tç'.
not I-guess would-you-pity-me
'You would not have pitied me (if you had won).'
(31) C. A:kate:khQ:ni kyç.kwâ' a:yçkékhwanç:t.
I-would-eat if she-would-feed-me
'I would eat if she offered me something.'
(32) Oe. Né: ki' svn usahônyake, autû: né: ayutnutôlyahte'
the just he-would-marry it-would-be the she would play
ostûha shakoyvha.
a little bit his-daughter
'If he were to remarry, his daughter could play a little.'
(33) M. Toka' a.yetshiwvnarâ:' u, kati' nii.wa'
if you-had-addressed-a-word-to-her perhaps maybe
a.yetshiyatera' swâ.wi'.
she-might-have-given-you-good-luck
'If you had spoken to her, she might have given you good luck.
(25) Oe.
(26) M.
(27) M.
96 Evldenfiality In North and South America
The factual could of course be considered the most certain of all, since it
describes events which have already occurred.
Another prefix which reflects the speaker's knowledge about the truth of a
predication is the contrastive prefix PII *th-. It can be used to indicate that a state
is contrary to fact or expectation.
(34) S. Tha'a:katkç:ni' a:ke'sehta:ni:n$' né:.
I-were-rich I-would-car-buy EMPHATIC-CONTRASTIVE
'If I were rich, I would buy a car.'
(35) C. /:' a:kehfrg:ni' kyç.kwâ' the'ak'yatahni.yQh.
I I-would-build if my-body-were-strong
'I would build it if I were strong.'
(36) Oe. . . . ta thvwakna'skô:kwate.
if were-it-to-crawl-into-my-nest.
'. . . if it were to crawl into my nest.'
(37) Oe. Otku' ki' né: thytkaya:kvne' yehsa.ku.
snake just it-it so-will-it-come-out-of-there in-her-mouth
'A snake will come out of her mouth.' (unexpected event)
(38) M. (What are we going to do about this hole in the pipe?)
Thvkkohd.roke'.
I'll just plug it up.' (contrary to all you might expect me to do, like
calling a plumber or replacing the pipe.)
Thvyôkka'.
'It will just leak.' (Contrary to your expectation that it will be fixed.)
This same contrastive prefix is also used to hedge the degree of truth. In Cayuga,
it co-occurs with the diminutive -ah in this function.
(39) C. thihaks'ako.wâhah 'he is sort of handsome'
(haksa'kg:wah 'he is handsome')
(40) C. thiha'sasté:'ah 'he is sort of strong'
(ha'sâste' 'he is strong')
(41) C. thihawayçh@:hah 'he is sort of good at it'
{hawâyçhç: 'he knows how')
(42) M. tsi ne thiha'shâtste' 'he is sort of strong'
(ra'shâtste' 'he is strong')
(43) M. tsi ne thihahnv.yes 'he is sort of tall'
(rahnv.yes 'he is tall')
The diminutive suffix, which is cognate across all of the languages, is also
exploited alone in Cayuga and Seneca to hedge degree. Suffixed to stative verbs,
it can add the meaning 'a little'.
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 97
(44) S. kakç.t'ah 'it is whitish'
(Kakç:çt 'it is white')
(45) S. hotyângt'ah 'he is kind of funny'
(Hotya.ngt 'he is funny')
(46) C. hçkwe'tahetkç:'ah 'he is a little mean'
{Hçkwe'tâhetkç' 'he is mean')
(47) C. ohsno:wé:'agtriho'ta:t 'she works sort of fast'
[Ohsnô.we' 'it is fast')
Finally, the plural suffix -shç.'çh, which is cognate within the Inner lan-
guages, is exploited in one of them, Cayuga, to hedge numbers.
(48) C. Ha:wakyghgk ky§:' g hne:' tekrg'shg:'gh.
I-would-arrive it-is I-guess eight-ish
'I guess I would get there by around eight o'clock.' (tekrg' 'eight')
(49) C. O:, hyei'shg.'g aotahse:'.
oh six-ish you-should-come
'Oh, you should come around sixish.' {hyei 'six')
The morphological devices which provide information about the reliability of
the message are thus quite stable across the languages. The tense systems have
remained intact in both form and function in all of the Northern Iroquoian
languages. The contrastive prefix has remained in the Inner languages, although
its function has been extended in Cayuga and Mohawk from simple contrast with
expectation to a hedge on degree. The form of the diminutive and its primary
function have remained the same in all of the languages, but the Western lan-
guages (Seneca and Cayuga) have innovated a secondary evidential extension of
its meaning. Finally, the pluralizer, which is cognate among the Inner languages,
has been extended in Cayuga to qualify numbers.
PREDICATE EVIDENTIAL^
Iroquoian languages, like most, contain numerous overt predicates which specify
the source and quality of the evidence on which information is based. A majority
of these ('think', 'say', 'tell', 'certain', 'true,' etc.) are cognate across the
languages. As throughout the rest of the lexicon, the most closely related lan-
guages share the most cognates, the most distantly related languages slightly
fewer. Here are some examples of their use.
(50) T. Kyè.rih û:'y vOaka'dv.ya't.
I-think other I-will-hang-again
'I think I'll hang another drape.'
(51) T. V'nehû.'nv' hé.snv: wehrvhv.weh hè:nt:kv: tyuyè:rvh.
98 Evidentiality in North and South America
it-proved-it this it-says-true that so-it-happened
'This proved that it had truly happened.'
(52) W. Tiwa'yç:'ç' a'yçhçç' de hudû'mç' da§' n$: yawâhtsih.
much-likely she-said the his-mother perhaps it-is-good
'His mother said that it was likely that it would be good.
(53) W. Yatù.yvh tç' unç'tô.'ndï.
it-is-certain not to-her-it-is-long
'She certainly did not find it long. '
(54) W. Kari:wâyç>ht esçmâ' turç.ha .
matter-is-sure he-will-find-us
'He is sure to find us.'
(55) S. Akçnçhté' çthe'.
I-know he-will-come
'I know he is coming. '
(56) S. Ha.wç: çthe'.
he-said he-will-come
He said he would come.
(57) S. Okwe:ny{j: nœ.'kwâ e.ysençkç.nï.
it-is-possible just-really I-will-beat-him
'I just might beat him.'
(58) C. Tekekahné:' a:yç:' onahtokçhçkyé' kayçthwahshç'.
I-am-looking it-seems they-are-growing they-are-planted
'I see your plants are growing.
(59) C. Hçna.tç honihçh.
they-say he-borrowed it
'They say he borrowed it.'
(60) C. Tka:k$:t hné:' tçthâ:yç'.
it-is-certain this he-will-bring-it-back
'He is certain to bring it back. '
(61) C. Né:' ne' tkai:' nç:kyç honQhtç'.
it-is the it-is-correct this he-knows
'It is true that he knows.'
(62) C. Kç:tç 'Q hné:' takwâe kye'trç'.
I-mean INF. this this-side she-lives-there
'I suppose it is the lady over there.'
(63) Oe. Ta: tkaye.li: tho yahâ.yuhwe.
and it-is-true there there-she-arrived
'And, in fact, she did arrive there.'
(64) Oe. Wahv.lu ne'n ohkwadi. . . 'kwâh olihwi:yô: ji'
he-said the-one bear just thing-good that
yukhi'shvnyii.ne' '.
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 99
they-will-beat-us
'The bear said, "It is a sure thing that we're going to get cleaned
up.'"
(65) Oe. Wé.ne' wi: ni: ji' vske'shv.hni.
it-is-evident so very that you-will-beat-me
'It is evident that you will get the best of me.
(66) M. Wè:ne' kï wâhe tsi vske'sà.ni'.
it-is-evident of-course that you-will-beat-me
'It is evident that you will get the best of me.'
(67) M. Tsi nî.yot tsi yukhihrô.ri yah lihka' ne wv:tu
so so-it-is that we-are-told not anyone the ever
teyotû.'u a:yakothrô:rï ne oh nihaya'td.tv'.
it-happens they-would-tell the what so-his-body-kind-is
'And so, we are told, no one was ever able to tell what kind of body he
had.'
(68) M. Khè.rv lev ta:'a tehayvkya'ks.
I-think this maybe he-is-chopping-wood
'I believe he is out chopping wood.'
Since such predicates are often part of core vocabulary, it is not surprising that
they should show a high degree of stability. Many of them have remained intact
in all of the languages. (See, for example, *tkaye:ri: 'it is correct', *-rihw-iyo:
'certain', *-tokç- 'certain', *-çnçthç' 'know', *-ihr-l-ehr- 'believe', 'think',
*-hrori- 'tell', *-atç-l-ati-l-i- 'say'.) They do not, of course, form a closed set,
and perhaps for this reason are not as static overall as the set of evidential affixes.
EVIDENTIAL PARTICLES
A third set of evidentials consists of particles, morphologically unanalyzable
words usually consisting of only one or two syllables. The languages vary
considerably in their repertoires of evidential particles. They are conspicuously
rarer in Tuscarora than in the other languages, for example, probably totaling
around half a dozen. Wyandot also seems to have had relatively few, in com-
parison with the rest of the family. Since all of our knowledge of Wyandot comes
from texts recorded longhand, a process which often serves to eliminate particles
as speakers slow down and transcribers speed up, we can of course only specu-
late on their frequency. Oneida and Mohawk speakers draw from a significantly
larger repertoire of evidential particles, although there is considerable variation
from speaker to speaker in the extent of their use. Seneca and Cayuga speakers
have extremely rich sets at their disposal, which they exploit extensively in all
styles of speech. Cayuga alone has well over fifty different evidential particles.
100 Evidentiality in North and South America
The languages vary not only in the size of their repertoires, but also in their
content.4
Source of Information
Because of their brevity, it is generally difficult to reconstruct particles with
confidence. In any case, because of their absence from Tuscarora, no evidentials
qualifying the source of information can be reconstructed for Proto-Northern
Iroquoian. The Lake languages Wyandot, Seneca, and Cayuga share a cognate
experiential particle *a:yç:' which indicates that information is based on
observation.
(69) W. De ywguyomç à:yç' uskû'taye'.
the it-was-bloody it-appears its-head-on
'His head looked bloody.'
(70) W. A'atijiih tehatâka dà.yç' dahstç' ta'ûh
not-it-looks he-talks the-as-if that something
hu' diy$:râcç'.
his-mind-is-troubled
'He remained silent. He seemed troubled.'
(71) W. Nç ha.rgt dà.yç' du tà.yuwâskag'te.
now he-hears the-it-seems that someone-is-walking
'It sounds as if someone is walking around.'
(72) S. A.yç:' te'o.yâi ne kœ:né' ahsgh.
it-appears not-is-it-ripe the cherry yet.
'The cherries don't look ripe yet.'
(73) C. A:yç:' wahe' g tshg": otgkohtg" tewâhghte.s.
it-appears just INF. only it-passed two-ears-are-long
'A deer must have just passed by here.' (I see the tracks.)
(74) C. A.yç:' tewahghté.s 'g çtwâ'waha.k.
it-appears two-ear-are-long INF. we-will-eat-meat
'We must be having venison for supper.' (I can smell it.)
(75) C. A.yç:' sahsâ.kha'.
it-appears you-limp
'You seem to be limping.'
The Seneca particle is also used for inference based on observation of a situation.
(76) S. Ta: o.nç rise: kyg'g ne haksa'tase :'a waç'
and then really they-say the he-is-a-new-child he said
4
Three other papers describing particles in Northern Iroquoian languages are of note here. Two,
by Wallace Chafe (1981a, 1981b), deal with Seneca particles. The third is on 'Cohesive and
grammatical functions of selected Onondaga particles' (Woodbury 1980)
Milhun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 101
ky'ç a:yç:', 'Waeyajççskg:'.
they-say it-seems I-got-the-best-of-him
'Now then, it seems, the young man said, "I got the best of him." '
(77) S. Tçta:ey$' shg a:yç:' kwa (:'
I-should-give-it-back-to-him only it-seems just I
a:ygkwaya' tâkeha '.
it-should-help-us
'It looks like it would help us for me to give it back to him.'
Wyandot, Seneca, and perhaps Cayuga or Mohawk share an inferential parti-
cle which indicates that the information is the result of deduction.
(78) W. (Some hunters have just found some large, unusual claw marks on a
tree.)
Tq'q ngj_ te'yawahsti de: kwaka.jatg'.
no maybe not-is-it-safe that we-trouble-it
'Maybe we had better not disturb it.'
(79) W. (A friend has just informed the speaker that horses do not hatch, but
rather bring forth their young. He has just bought a pumpkin.)
Nç tu ïhsç ne ng; ahaye'diyçha' tç'.
now there sure the INF. he-cheated-me
'Then he must have cheated me!' (when I bought the horse egg)
(80) S. Nç: te'o.yâi ne kx.ne .
I-guess not-is-it-ripe the cherry
'The cherries must not be ripe.' (because the strawberries are still out)
(81) S. A:yç:' ni:' i:wi: hotkg' ngj_ œ.htâ'k
it-seems I I-think wizard I-guess too-much
ha'te:y{5: hayçte.ih.
diff.-things he-knows
'He seems to be some kind of a wizard; he knows too much.'
(82) C. Tçtha:yç:' g hne:'
he-will-bring-it-back INF. this
'I guess he'll bring it back.'
(83) C. Thç' £ hne:' t'eshe:' kaya'tha
not INF. this not-you-want it-body-sets
hâ.se:'.
there-would-you-go
'You don't want to go to the movies then, do you?'
(84) M. Ne kï ki.kv Ahkwesahshrô.nu' thé.nv kï nà:'a
the just this St.-Regis-resident something just I-guess
yahori'wanû.tohse' autahô:yu' ne rahù.tsi.
he-asked-for he-would-give-him the he-is-black
'I guess the St. Regis man must have asked the black fellow to hand
102 Evidentiality in North and South America
him something.' (Speaker infers a bridge between remembered
events.)
(85) M. Khe.rv kïnà:'a ta' nû:wa akkwé.ni.
I-think I-guess maybe perhaps I-could
'I guess I just might be able to do that. '
(If the particle, *nç:, is a combination of the article ne' plus Q:, the Cayuga ç
could be related; if not, the Mohawk na:'a could be related, in accord with other
observed but unsystematic correspondences between -a a- and -ç- sequences.)
An Oneida particle, uhne, resembles a compound of the Cayuga inferential plus
deictic.
(86) Oe. Khale' onv uhne wahv.lu' skvhanâksv,
and now it-seems he-said one-it-skin-bad
'Tutahsanitskwak . . . "
jump-up
'Finally said the fox, it seems, "Jump up now." '
(87) Oe. Nv uhne lotnuhtu.tu ka'ibi skvhndksv kwatokv
now it-seems he-wait this one-it-skin-bad really
akawi.sâtvste' Ivtâkne.
it-would-ice-become-thick
'And so it seems the fox waited for the ice to become really thick.'
Mohawk also contains another inferential particle. It usually entails a hedge
on probability. The inference may be based on observation.
(88) M. Oskvnû:tu tđ_ yotohétstu.
deer possibly it-has-passed
'A deer must have passed by here.' (I see tracks.)
(89) M. Khé.rv kv ta:'a oskvnû:tu o'wà.ru vtewake'
I-think that possibly deer meat we-will-eat
vyô.karahwe'.
it-will-darken
'I think we must be having venison tonight.' (I smelled it as we
walked in.)
The Inner languages all make extensive use of quotative particles. The
Cayuga, Oneida, and Mohawk particles are cognate, while the Seneca quotative
is quite different in form.
(90) C. Akonçhyâ'k ake'.
she-got-hurt they-say
'I heard she got hurt.
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 103
(91) C. Thayekya'khçhâ' ake'.
he-went-to-chop-wood they say
'They say he went to chop wood.' (It seems he went to chop wood.)
(92) Oe. Okhna' yakv' wi: wa'thatawvli'.
and-so they-say he-traveled-around
'And, so they say, he travelled around.'
(93) Oe. Né: katï yakv' wi: alyâ: nv yah
it is they-say that-is-why now not
te'shvtâhsute' ohkwadi.
has-he-a-tail bear
'That's the reason, it is said, that the bear has no tail.'
(94) S. Sçkâ:' kyç'ë te.niksa'â: hotiya'tahtç'$ sg.te'. Berrino
someone they-say two-children they-are-lost last-night
kyg'o hiya.sgh. Chickchick kyp'g koksa'ta'shç' çh.
they-say their-names they-say her-children
'I heard that two kids were lost last night. Berrino I guess their names
were. Must be Chickchick's children.' (from a conversation)
(95) S. Ta: o.nç né: kyç'Ç sç ng'o.tâ' o:nç kyç'ç
and then really they-say 3 so-days then they-say
wa.ayç' né hç.kweh.
he-arrived the man
'And then, it seems, after about three days, it seems, a man appeared.'
(from a legend)
Precision or Degree of Truth
Particles emphasizing the degree of truth look similar in almost all of the lan-
guages. One emphatic may be traceable to Proto-Northern Iroquoian.
(96) T. Yahwahv'nï u'tésnakw ha' kv' thru'na'nihrv'.
there-she-threw-it behind the right there-he-was-standing
'She threw it right back where he was standing.'
(97) W. K£ en
di" ahâtçme'.
very much he-is-tired
'He is very tired.'
(98) W. Kç nç' hatençdihcç'.
just now he-will-be-through
'He is almost through.'
(99) C. Tho kV_ nh^.weh, ha'teyçkwâtatkç:
there just place there-we-have-seen-each-other
'That is just where we met.'
104 Evidentiality in North and South America
(100) C. N'ethô M_ niyâw'ççh.
the-there just so-it-happened
'That is just how it happened.'
(101) Oe. Yah thau.tû: kV_ wi: a:yako:tâ:we'.
not possible just could-she-go-to-sleep
'She just could not go to sleep.'
(102) M. E' thô M_ na'â.wv'ne'.
there there just so-it-happened
'And that is just what happened.'
(103) M. Nv ki_ vkahtv.tï.
now just I-will-leave
'Now, I think, I'll just start right out.'
The resemblances between the languages could represent a common Proto-
Northern-Iroquoian inheritance, but this cannot be determined rigorously. (The
difference in the vowels could indicate two original particles, *kç' > T. ky', W.
kç', and *kï > C.-Oe.-M. ki', or they could be divergent realizations of a
longer sequence, such as *kai. [PNI *a + *i > §]. Normally initial *k is lost in
Wyandot before vowels, but the nonexistence of the expected form W. *i' could
be explained simply as avoidance of an unstable shape. In any case, the brevity
of the forms significantly raises the possibility of chance resemblance.)
The Lake languages share other emphatic particles, kwah and akwah, 'really',
'just', 'very'.
(104) W. Dç kwa wâ'tançsti.
greatly she-is-small-and-pretty
'She is really small and pretty.'
(105) S. Nœ: kwa: hi.kç: hoyâ'tasha:yçh.
just really this his-body-was-slow
'He was really moving very slowly.'
(106) S. Akwâs ne' hoh niyâwç'çh.
really that so-it-happened
'This is how it really happened. '
(107) C. Thç' kwâhs t'eçkhniwayçnçt'agh.
not really have-we-two-finished
'We didn't quite finish.'
(108) C. Thç' akwâhs tho ni.yç: t''eakhwihstâç'.
not really there so-much do-I-have-money
'I don't have quite enough money.'
(109) Oe. Nv se' kwah kv' nihv.nâhse:
now just really so they-are-large
'Now they are quite big. '
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 105
(110) Oe. Wâ.lelhe, latkv'sé.na' kw(: ka'ikv nâhte' akwâh ka'ikv
he wanted he-go-see this what exactly this
nityotyelv.
so-it-happens
'He decided he'd go and see exactly what was happening.'
(111) M. Kwah i:kv tsi rotihdhes.
really it-is so their-road-is-long
'Their road was truly long.' (Truly was their road long.)
(112) M. Ka'nyuhsâkta' nû.we nvhatikwè.tarv' kwâh se's
near-the-nose place where-they-will-cut just then
yâ:kv'. nè.ne aiyohnatirûhthake'.
they-say which it-would-be-pulling
'Near the nose, they say, is a place which is just like rubber.'
Seneca and Cayuga share a hedge thô.ha 'almost' from tho 'there', 'that' plus
a diminutive.
(113) S. 0:nç tho:hà çkaniya:yç'.
now almost it-will-snow
'It was about to snow.'
(114) C. 0:nç hne:' thô.ha hçkahé:' çkyahtç.ti'
now this almost there-will-it-set we-two-will-leave
'It is almost time for us to leave.'
They also share an emphatic use of *tshg: 'just', 'only'.
(115) S. Hçtshe:â" shç.h.
you-will-take-her-back just
'You just take her right back!'
(116) C. Tatsi'.ha kç.s tshç: i.sô' atkhehtowé.nye:'.
short-time customarily just much I-stir-dirt
'In just a little while I can work up the dirt (plough).'
Additional hedges exist in most of the languages, but they do not appear to be
cognate across languages.
Probabi/iry
All of the languages have particles which qualify certainty, in many cases match-
ln
g hedges on precision or conditionals. (AsinT. arvh 'about', 'maybe', 'if',C.
tyc.kwa' 'maybe', 'if, M. toka' 'about', 'if.) These are generally not cognate
Cf
oss the languages, although the Eastern languages Oneida and Mohawk share
several.
106 Evidentiality in North and South America
(117) Oe. Kv.tho ki' uhte wi: a:klâthv' kalutâ:ke.
this just perhaps I-should-climb tree-on
'I guess I will climb this tree here. '
(118) M. Rawé.ras ûhte' thi'.kv rô:ne' wa'etshf.kv'.
he-thunders perhaps that his-wife you-saw-her
'Perhaps you saw the Thunderer's wife.'
(119) M. Tâ:nïts ûhte thô yâ:yv.
might-as-well perhaps there there-she-should-go
'Well, maybe she should go.'
(120) Oe. Ta.t nuwa' ne: tyoyânle'.
perhaps maybe that it-is-good
'Maybe it would be best. '
(121) M. Katï nû.wa' a.yetshyatera'swâ:wï.
perhaps maybe she-might-have-given-you-luck
'She might have given you good luck.'
(122) Oe. Nv katï vtkatâhsawv' vkahtahkûmi:.
now maybe I-will-begin I-will-shoe-make
'Now, I guess, I'll start to make some shoes.'
(123) M. Kati' né: wa'è.ru?
perhaps that she-said
'Perhaps that is what she said?' ('Is that what she said?')
A Tuscarora particle resembles these but is not cognate, since *t becomes 'n in
Tuscarora before vowels. The cognate form is *kweni? 'possible'.
(124) T. Kweti' v'nyurihvh atsi'âh.
maybe it-will-boil a-little-bit
'Maybe it will boil a little.'
Although all of the other languages contain additional particles which qualify the
probability of statements, they are not cognate.
Expecfation
The Lake languages all contain particles indicating correspondence to expecta-
tion. One set is derived from a verb *-tokçh- 'be certain'. It remains only as a
full predicate in Wyandot (see 53), but has spawned particles in all of the Inner
languages which indicate that a statement is both true and in accord with
expectation.
(125) S. To.kçs akekwe.nyê: çkç.kç's ne
sure it-is-possible-for-me I-will-find-for-you the
yeksâ'ko:wa:h.
she-child-large
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 107
'Yes, I will certainly be able to find a beautiful girl for you (as you
suggested).'
(126) C. To.kçhs a'akowi.yâçta'.
sure she-came-to-have-a-baby
And, sure enough, she did have a baby.'
(127) Oe. Tô:kvske'
'Yes, that is true.' (in response to a tag question, such as 'isn't it?')
(128) M. Tô.ske.
'It sure is.' (in response to a tag question)
Another emphatic particle pointing to expectation can be reconstructed for the
Inner languages: *wahi'l*wahe' 'in fact'.
(129) S. Wa[ he niyâwç'çh.
in-fact what how-it-happened
'This is in fact how it happened. '
(130) Oe. Wa'utu.kôhte' kï wah.
she-passed just in-fact
'Indeed, she kept right on going.'
(131) Oe. /: wahe.
I-EMPH. in-fact
'In fact, I am.'
(132) Oe. Nv kwi wa'thoyâ:tahkwe' vhatnehwahni:nâ:te' ki'
now just he-body-picked-up he-will-skin-sell just
wahe.
in-fact
'And in fact, he did pick him up to sell his hide.'
(133) M. Ô.nv wâhï wa'utkâhtho' ne rawvhé.yu.
then in-fact she-looked-at the he-is-dead
'Then in fact she did look at the dead man.'
(134) M. Nyô: ki' wâhe' suke'nikûhrhv.
gosh just in-fact my-mind-set-again
'Gosh, as a matter of fact, I completely forgot.'
Otherwise, particles indicating expectation generally do not match from lan-
guage to language. Wyandot and Cayuga have particles indicating contrast with
expectation which may or may not be related.
(135) W. Hakû'tra' ihcç' hu'kiyç:ruwâ:nç.
he-ventures it-is-so his-mind-is-great
'He is in fact daring and clever after all.' (He has just surprised us
with his good performance on a test.)
108 Evidentially in North and South America
(136) C. Nç:, thçnençkyé's s£_.
look they-are-here
'Look, they are here after all.'
(The Wyandot ihcç' suggests a source *ihsç' or *sç'..)
Cayuga has another particle which indicates contrast with expectation,
ngne:'. This could be related to the Proto-Lake *ng: plus the deictic ne:' 'it is
this which', 'this is what . . .'.
(137) C. AgsaQtC n$ne:'.
it-rained in-fact
'It did too rain.'
(138) C. Thç' kyç:' n$ne:' ni:' kwa'y(j' t'ekç:.
not this you-know I rabbit not-is-it
'I'm no rabbit, you know.' (So stop trying to feed me lettuce.)
Other particles marking expectation of probability are not cognate from one
language to the next.
Due to their brevity, tracing the source of Iroquoian particles in general can be
only speculative at best. As the preceding section has shown, however, the
languages vary strikingly in their repertoires of evidential particles. Tuscarora
has only a handful, while Cayuga has well over fifty, and the other languages
range between these extremes. Most of the evidential particles in use in the
modern languages cannot be traced back to Proto-Northern-Iroquoian. Only one,
*kç'l*ki' 'just' appears possibly reconstructable for PNI. A few can be tenta-
tively reconstructed for Proto-Lake-Iroquoian, *a:yç:' 'it seems', the inferential
*nç: 'I guess', and the emphatic *kwahl*akwahs 'really', 'very', 'just'. More
evidential particles can be reconstructed for Proto-Inner-Iroquois. In addition to
the experiential, inferential, and emphatic particles cited above, the quotative
*yâ:kç' 'it is said', the probability marker *-tokçh- 'sure', and the marker of
expectation *wâhe'J*wâhi' 'in fact' can be posited for PH. In addition to these,
the Western languages share the qualifiers *thô:ha 'almost' and *tshç: 'just',
'only'. The Eastern languages, slightly more closely related, share as well the
probability markers *ûhte' 'perhaps', *nii:wa' 'maybe', and *kâti' 'maybe'.
Each of the languages contains additional unique evidential particles which ap-
pear in none of the others.
The particles are clearly the least stable of the evidential devices. In a number
of cases, changes involving particles can be observed in operation in the modern
languages. Specific clusters of two or more particles have often taken on various
idiomatic senses which vary from one language to the next. Languages with
different internal and external sandhi rules show wavering treatment of such
clusters. In Cayuga, for example, glottal stops metathesize to the left in all odd-
numbered syllables except final ones. A monosyllabic particle like ki' 'just', for
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 109
example, retains its glottal stop word-finally because the first syllable is also the
last. When combined with shçh 'how', however, the particle retains its indi-
vidual form in slow speech but exhibits metathesis in fast speech: k'ishçh 'per-
haps'. Speakers are unsure of word boundaries in such clusters, although they
tend to feel strong bonds between the elements and favor joining them in writing.
Such ambivalent status of incipient clusters is apparent in the other languages as
well. In addition, a number of particles, such as Cayuga tshç: 'just', and g
'presumably' appear to be becoming ever more closely bound phonologically to
the predicates they modify, pointing toward incipient morphologization.
At the same time, all of the languages exhibit synchronic loss of syllables
from verbs to form particles, and from bisyllabic particles to form monosyllabic
ones. Some speakers are aware of both long and short forms, while others are no
longer aware of the longer ones. Such a loss can be seen in the particles derived
from PII *katô:kç: 'it is certain, true, specific, exact'. The verb remains in its
full form in all of the Lake languages (W. yatù:yçh S. kato:kç:h, C. katô.kç:,
Oe. kato.kv M. katô.kv). In the Inner languages, however, the pronominal prefix
*ka- 'it' has also been dropped to form a particle (S. to.kçs, C. tô.kçhs, Oe.
to.kvske', M. tô:skeltô:kvske 'sure enough').
THE RELATIVE STABILITY OF EVIDENTIAL AFFIXES, PREDICATES,
AND PARTICLES
The three types of evidentials in Northern Iroquoian differ significantly in their
stability. Nearly all of the forms of the morphological evidentials have remained
intact in all of the languages, as have most of their functions.
The predicate evidentials show somewhat less stability than the affixes, al-
though the majority have remained in most of the languages. This is not surpris-
ing. While the affixes constitute a closed set, the predicates are part of an open
set, subject to the same accidents of lexical replacement as the rest of the
vocabulary. Because they are generally closer to the core of the lexicon, more
frequently used and less culturally sensitive than some other words, they are
among the more stable of lexical items. Their patterns of retention accurately
mirror the history of the family. The most closely related languages share the
most evidential predicates, while the more distantly related languages share
somewhat fewer.
The evidential particles, on the other hand, show much greater volatility than
either the affixes or the predicates, both in form and function. Where particles
appear equivalent between languages, they often do not exhibit regular sound
correspondences, and apparently similar forms often differ in function from
language to language. The evidential particles mirror most dramatically the
different degrees of relationship among the languages in the family. The most
closely related languages share many, but by no means all of their evidential
no Evidentiality in North and South America
particles. As degree of relationship diminishes, proportions of shared particles
decrease sharply, until, in the case of the most distantly related languages,
almost none are cognate. Repertoire and use of particles are in fact among the
most salient ways in which the Northern Iroquoian languages differ among
themselves.
It is not immediately obvious why evidential particles should be so much less
stable than predicates, however, since both constitute open lexical sets. Several
facts suggest an explanation. The frequent combination of evidential particles
into long strings suggests that they must perform a function beyond simply
specifying the degree of reliability of an utterance, which could often be neatly
accomplished with a single, well chosen verb or particle. People credited with
reputations as eloquent speakers tend to use more such particles, and more
frequently, than less admired speakers. There is enormous speaker variation in
choice and frequency of use. Furthermore, the particles seem in some ways to
have low salience to speakers. If a speaker slows down for clarity or dictation, or
writes out a text longhand, the particles tend to disappear. Teachers tend to omit
them when teaching these languages to children or adults whose first language is
English. Speakers are almost uniformly at a loss to translate most of them.
The distribution of the particles in discourse is quite interesting. As might be
expected, they tend to cluster around specific statements which speakers would
like to hedge, such as direct quotations or measurements. They tend to occur in
very long strings particularly before shifts in topic, or around elements of high
communicative value to the discourse. Their effect on the rhythm of information
transmission is striking; they allow the speaker time to collect thoughts at mo-
ments of the greatest choice. In addition to facilitating the performance of the
speaker, they contribute to the effectiveness of the communication. They allow
the speaker to regulate the flow of information so as to be most easily and readily
understood by the hearer. If too many short, highly important units of informa-
tion were to occur in rapid succession, a hearer might not be able to take them in
all at once with their proper force. Strings of particles permit the speaker to
arrange important information such that it arrives at proper intervals.
Proper rhythm can also affect the hearer's willingness to listen. Plunging into
a sentence can be considered brusque. The particles can soften the force of a
communication. Consider this sentence:
(139) M. Khé:rv katï kv nekwâ: yà:ke'.
I-believe maybe there side there-I-go
'Well, I might as well go on over there, I guess.'
The first two words are optional as far as propositional content goes. Speakers
report, however, that if one or, worse, both were removed, the sentence would
suggest disgust and dissatisfaction. The same is true of this Cayuga answer to the
question, 'What are you doing?'
Mithun: Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian 111
(140) C. A:yç:' ki' hne:' thç' kwâhs skâho'tç'
it-seems just this not really anything
'Oh, nothing much, I guess.'
The speaker knows exactly what he is doing, but the bare facts, thf skâho'tç'
'nothing' would be an impolite, brusque answer.
Now in most cases, strings of evidential particles tend to be mixed with
deictic particles. The deictic particles occur, in fact, much more frequently than
is necessary to keep reference straight. Interestingly, Tuscarora, which exhibits
fewer and rarer evidential particles than the other languages, exhibits correspon-
dingly more deictic particles in discourse.
(141) T. U:nvha' kayetâ.kre', vkwehv:weh, kyé:ni:kv: kyè.ni.kv:
long-ago they-dwell real-people this this
kv.ne' kwè.nï, kayetâ.kre' hè:ni:kv: nekaku'tikvkà.rvhrv.
here near they-dwell that their-minds-down
'Long ago, the Indians living near here were depressed.'
The deictic particles in all of the languages have the same secondary function as
the evidential particles. They allow the speaker time to compose the utterance
and permit an arrangement of information so that the hearer can process it most
effectively. The use of evidential particles is thus more than a function of their
evidential role. Their diachronic behavior is also a result of their form as
particles.
The form of a linguistic marker can, then, have a significant effect on its
resistance to change over time. The hierarchy of stability of evidential devices
can be summarized as follows:
STABLE^AFFIXES PREDICATES PARTICLES->VOLATILE
REFERENCES
Barbeau, Marius. 1960. Huron-Wyandot traditional narratives in translations and native texts.
(National Museum of Canada, Bulletin 165, Anthropological Series, No. 47.) Ottawa: Na-
tional Museums of Canada.
Chafe, Wallace L. 1967. Seneca morphology and dictionary. (Smithsonian Contributions to An-
thropology, Vol. 4.) Washington: Smithsonian Institute.
1981a. Integration and involvement in speaking, writing, and oral literature. Spoken and
written language: Exploring orality and literacy, ed. by Deborah Tannen. Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
1981b. Differences between colloquial and ritual Seneca, or how oral literature is literary.
Reports from the survey of California and other Indian languages, No. 1, ed. by Alice
Schlichter, Leanne Hinton, and Berkeley: Department of Linguistics, University of
California.
, and Michael K. Foster. 1981. Prehistoric divergences and recontacts between Cayuga,
Seneca, and the other Northern Iroquoian languages. UAL 47:121-142.
112 Evidenriality in North and South America
Lounsbury, Floyd G. 1953. Oneida verb morphology. (Yale University Publications in An-
thropology, No. 48.) New Haven: Yale University Press.
Michelson, Karin. 1981. Three stories in Oneida. (Canadian Ethnology Service, Paper No. 73.
National Museum of Man, Mercury Series.) Ottawa: National Museums of Canada.
Mithun, Marianne, and Hanni Woodbury. 1980. Northern Iroquoian texts. (UAL Native American
Text Series, 4.) Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Woodbury, Hanni. 1980. Cohesive and grammatical functions of selected Onondaga particles. Paper
presented at the Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological Association, Washington,
D.C., November, 1980.
SEVEN
Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi
Languages
Martha James Hardman
University of Florida, Gainesville
The Jaqi family of languages, including Jaqaru, Kawki, and Aymara, is spoken
in the Andes mountains of Peru, Bolivia, and Chile by approximately three
million people. Jaqaru and Kawki are in modern contact, spoken in contiguous
valleys in the Yauyos province of Lima, in Peru. Until my own work of the last
quarter century there was no history of contact between the Aymara and the
Kawki/Jaqaru group. The Kawki language is dying—it is not now the dominant
language for anyone and no children are growing up with Kawki as a native
language. Jaqaru, on the other hand, although spoken by only some five thou-
sand, is still the first language of the children of Tupe; its demise is not immi-
nent. Aymara, the native language of one-third of the population of Bolivia and
of more than half a million in Southern Peru and Northern Chile, is expanding in
absolute numbers; there are Aymara linguists, Aymara publications put out by
Aymara authors, and a growing enthusiasm for bilingual education among
Aymara parents.
Extensive marking of DATA-SOURCE is one of the prime characteristics of the
Jaqi family of languages. However, the category was not even recognized in the
first four hundred years after the conquest for the apparently simple reason that
the specific marks of data-source are not directly translated within the translation
tradition which quickly established itself after the conquest. With Spanish as the
mediating language to English, there was no translation of the category into
English either.
In 1603, Bertonio (p. 326) called the data-source markers 'ornate particles'
because 'without them the sentence is perfectly fine'. In 1616, Torres Rubio says
that 'some particles there are in this language which serve no other function than
to adorn the sentence' (p. 244). Ellen Ross in 1963 (p. 15) calls them 'emphatic
suffixes'. In 1965, Juan Enrique Ebbing (p. 360) calls them 'suffixes of adorn-
ment and emphasis'. In 1967, Wexler, in the Peace Corps grammar (p. 2),
claimed that one of the data source suffixes is an 'OPTIONAL "subject-object"
113
114 Evidentiality in North and South America
marker' or 'when attached to . . . a noun, conveys the meaning "to be" '
(emphasis in original). (All translations from Spanish by the author.) Where verb
tenses are involved, the Spanish translations put them into some quite irrelevant
Latin or Spanish category.
This is an amazing record, particularly in light of the talent and training of
some of the authors. This blindness to a critical category has had important
results in terms of cultural contact—to which I return toward the end of the
paper.
Data-source marking is so extensive in the Jaqi languages that it is difficult to
utter ANY sentence without indicating the source of one's information. It is so
pervasive that speakers consider the matter to be part of the nature of the uni-
verse. No informant ever explained data-source to me. As I discovered the
various markings through usage and context, and then checked with an infor-
mant, stating my hypothesis, the reaction was, inevitably and unfailingly: 'Well,
of course! Everybody knows that!'—sometimes followed by an insistence that
Spanish was equally marked for data-source information—an example of the
translation tradition leading to mutual misunderstanding.
There are cultural correlates to the grammatical category of data-source; for
this reason, data-source is recognized as a LINGUISTIC POSTULATE (Hardman
1972, 1978) of the Jaqi languages. As a linguistic postulate, data-source often
becomes critical in contact situations.
The specifics of data-source marking differ somewhat from language to lan-
guage and also within the varieties of the Aymara language. For the purposes of
this paper, examples will be taken from two languages only: Aymara of La Paz,
and Jaqaru. These two are the most divergent of the extant descendants of Proto-
Jaqi. For variations in Aymara see Briggs (1976).
DATA-SOURCE CATEGORIES: AN OVERVIEW
Data-source marking in the Jaqi languages involves elements of evidential mark-
ing, of validational marking, and, to a minor degree, of certainty. There are also
elements of speaker and/or addressee involvement, although the major emphasis
is on the channel: whence the information reported in the sentence. Truth value is
not directly involved—i.e., no one data-source is seen to be more 'true' than any
other. However, accuracy on the part of the speaker is a crucial element in the
public reputation of individuals; misuse of data-source is somehow somewhat
less than human, or is insulting to the listener. Truth and certainty are byproducts
of data-source marking, rather than primary ingredients, although source and
certainty may be interwoven. Where there is an option, other postulates (Hard-
man 1972, 1978), such as humanness and the salience of second person, may
play a role in determining which to use, in which case speaker/addressee in-
volvement with each other and/or the information of the sentence may play a
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 115
primary role. The category is here called DATA-SOURCE, however, because this
term seems to best cover the kind of situational information first processed by the
speaker in uttering any sentence—i.e. how one has knowledge of what one is
saying. The term 'evidential' seems too limited given the gamut of types of
information used.
In the Jaqi languages data-source is divided into three primary categories:
1. personal knowledge
2. knowledge-through-language
3. nonpersonal knowledge
These categories are variously realized in different languages and within the
same language with various grammatical devices.
Personal knowledge is that knowledge acquired by personal experience,
through the senses—primarily, but not exclusively, visual. Thus, bodily states,
such as hunger, are personal knowledge in the first person, but can never be so
for other persons, because the experience is not direct. Recordings with blind
persons have not shown any difference in the use of data-source markings.
The matter of direct personal experience is adhered to in what we would
consider a very literal way, even to the exclusion of some types of information
that we would consider general or received knowledge (these are knowledge-
through-language). Courtesy demands very careful adherence, particularly in
ascribing internal states to another person—hunger, thirst, pain—which are not
knowable by direct observation, but only through inference or report. There are a
few exceptions to such literalness; some types of general information may be
conveyed as personal knowledge.1
(1) Jaqaru: Utxutxullquq aq'inw utki.
'Elves live in caves.'
The placement of the data-source marker on the place makes an assertion only
about where elves live, not their actual existence. Older people mark personal
knowledge in these circumstances less than younger people; this usage may
indicate a shift under Spanish pressure. Also, future personal knolwedge sen-
tences are used as polite commands to same-generation ritual kin (comadres and
compadres), to whom it is forbidden to use an imperative. Men make personal
1
All examples are given in the practical alphabets now in use by the speakers of the languages. ' '
marks aspiration, ' marks glottalization, tx is an alveopalatal stop, ex is a retroflex affricate, q is a
Postvelar stop, nh is a velar nasal. The actual examples, though collected over many years from many
sources, were rechecked for accuracy for this paper with assistants at the University of Florida:
«olanda Nieves Payano Iturrizaga (Jaqaru) and Yolanda Lopez Callo (Aymara). I thank them for
'heir help.
116 Evidentially in North and South America
knowledge statements in referring to children as theirs, although they can, of
course, know so only through language from women.2
Also, some future events can be personal knowledge, the result of looking
back over one's shoulder to see what is coming from behind. The future in these
languages begins immediately beyond the present moment; if I am standing in
the door with one foot out and coat on, I will still use a future.
(2) Aymara: Sarxâwa.
'I'm going (home).'
Overall, however, the personal knowledge/other knowledge (metaphorically,
the seen/nonseen) distinction is held to with uncanny literalness.
Knowledge-through-language is the second major category and includes all
knowledge gained through the medium of language. Language is held to be THE
distinguishing feature of humanness and plays a large part in the human/nonhu-
man linguistic postulate (Hardman 1972; Hardman et al. 1975). Hearsay is, of
course, part of knowledge-through-language, but only part. All book learning,
all that is gained by reading, and all that is gained from listening to speeches or
conversations is also knowledge-through-language, not personal knowledge. The
Jaqi people have a remarkable ability to repeat conversations verbatim. Part of
this results from the standard question to children
(3) Aymara: kamsisa
'What did they say?' 'Que dijo?'
in circumstances where we would ask about thoughts or feelings. That book
learning is knowledge-through-language obviously has an important impact in
the educational system. Knowledge-through-language will sometimes be abbre-
viated as 'thru-lg.'
Nonpersonal-knowledge marking is the third major category of Jaqi data-
source, and is appropriate for all situations where witnesses cannot be expected.
Nonpersonal knowledge is primarily a remote past and is therefore particularly
appropriate for myths, legends, history, and tales of spirit encounters. These
forms are also used for surprises: for suddenly encountering a situation already
established.
2
However, the grandmothers have a saying:
Jaqaru: Wallmchinhn qayllp"q allchinhwa.
Lluqllnhan qayllp" q qachinilli.
'Child of my daughter is my grandchild.
Child of my son, who knows?'
thus reestablishing the primacy of personal knowledge.
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 117
personal thru-lg non-personal
Figure 1. Jaqi Data Source Marking
There are many situations which do not fall into one of the three obligatory,
major categories. The Jaqi languages make provisions for these transitional areas
by using other markers, which I call WEASELS, in lieu of or in addition to the
obligatory mark from one of the three majors. A speaker may opt for one of the
transitional forms when (a) the situation is ambiguous, (b) the emotion involved
is strong, (c) the personal interaction is the primary motive or focus, (d) there is
reluctance to commit oneself, (e) there is a desire to obscure the facts without
actually lying. Weasels do not translate well and are almost impossible to elicit
directly; sentences with them are not ordinarily straightforward statements of
fact. They vary in form and function from language to language and even from
speaker to speaker.
The primary data-source categories and the weasels can be ordered on a scale
progressing from personal knowledge through knowledge-through-language to
nonpersonal knowledge. Figure 1 gives a schematic of the data-source scale in
the Jaqi languages.
Primary data-source marking is done by (a) sentence suffixes and (b) verb
tenses. The sentence itself is defined in the Jaqi languages by the use of sentence
suffixes. A morphological word is a complete structure at the morphological
level, and may occur as a free unit, providing the sentence in which it occurs
carries a sentence suffix somewhere else. A syntactic word is a morphological
word plus a sentence suffix making it possible for the word to occur alone as a
sentence. Sentence suffixes may occur on any type of morphological word—
noun, verb, or particle. Thus, no specific grammatical structure is required for a
sentence to be well-formed, but a sentence suffix is required. Thus, a sentence is
a minimum of one morphological word plus a sentence suffix:
118 Evidentially in North and South America
amrucha 'fine'
amruchawa 'Fine.'
amruchaqa 'Fine. ' (attenuated personal knowledge)
ampara 'hand'
amprajilli 'It is surely the hand.'
uta 'house'
utawa 'It is a house.'
Jaqaru:
Aymara:
Sentence suffixes are obligatory. It is precisely because of the use of sentence
suffixes as a major data-source marker that data-source is NOT restricted to verbs
but is applied with equal universality to all morphological structures, including
particles and nouns, even if not with equal detail. It is in this way that the Jaqi
languages have made of data-source a linguistic postulate of the highest order,
one that is part of the encoding of virtually every sentence.
In addition to data-source, sentence suffixes mark politeness, types of inter-
rogatives, sequencing, and negations.
Within the verb system there are a number of tenses (mutually exclusive
inflections involving time, data-source, mode, aspect, realization) which specifi-
cally include data-source as part of their basic function.
Other data-source marking may occur with independent suffixes, within the
semantic structure, including proverbs, and also within the noun system and the
derivational systems, both nominal and verbal.
GRAMMATICAL REALIZATION
Primary Categories
Personal Knowledge. The most straightforward marking of personal
knowledge is through the use of the sentence suffix {-wa}, cognate in all of the
languages and the primary mark of personal knowledge, {-wa} is used in a
sentence without a verb or a sentence with a verb in one of the unmarked tenses.
Jaqaru:
Aymara:
nonverb: yapuwa
'It is a field. '
present: upaw_ ut' ' illki
'She sees the house.'
past: upaw ut" illawi
'She saw the house.'
future: upaw ut' ' illani
'She will see the house.'
nonverb: yapuwa.
'It is a field.'
simple: jupaw^ ut unji.
'She sees/saw the house,
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaq) Languages 119
future: jupaw ut unjani.
'She will see the house.'
Some of the verb tenses include data-source marking as part of their primary
function. This occurs most notably in the remote tenses. These tenses are cog-
nate, but at a deeper level, and show greater change since language separation.
Examples are given below. The personal knowledge forms of the remote, outside
of surprisal use (mostly in the third-to-third person), are appropriately used only
by married persons over forty (Hardman 1983, Hardman et al. in press).
Knowledge-through-Language. In ordinary discourse, these forms are no
longer recognized as cognate; they are, however, historically; see below.
Jaqaru has a specific sentence suffix for 'thru-lg'; Aymara uses a quotative
embedding.
Aymara: walikiw sasaw si. ( 'O.K., she said.'
< 'Dice que esta bien.'
Jaqaru: amruchamna. { <Bien d i c i e n d o dijo.-
The embedding which marks all information gathered thra-lg, whether written or
oral, is so frequent in Aymara that its phonological structure is subject to extreme
reduction, such that the /sasaw si/ sounds more like a suffix on the quote than a
subordinate clause plus a principal clause. Furthermore, {sand} 'to say' is the
only verb in any of the languages to have irregular forms, and is also incorporat-
ed into a verbal interrogative. It is apparently rapidly on its way to either an
auxiliary status (an innovation for Jaqi) or a new suffixation.
In Jaqaru, the {-mna} suffix marks all information gathered thru-lg, whether
written or oral.
Jaqaru: shumyaq t'ant"q palwimna.
'They say Shumaya ate bread.'
Jaqaru does have available the embedding syntactic pattern, but does not use
it for the ordinary thru-lg data-source. It may be used for a direct quote, and may
itself take the {-mna} suffix.
(4) Jaqaru: Shumyaq t'ant"w paluwt" sawi.
'Shumaya said "I ate bread".' (said by someone who heard her say so)
(5) Jaqaru: Shumyaq t'ant"w paluwt" sawimna.
'They say Shumaya said she ate bread.' (said by someone who was told
by someone who heard her say so)
The {-mna} suffix in Jaqaru does allow for what might be considered a type of
indirect quote, but does not permit the specification of the identity of the source
120 Evidentiality in North and South America
of the information, so that it remains primarily a data-source marker, thru-lg,
without specifying the source itself. Aymara allows no indirect quote what-
soever; the option with {sana} embedding is to specify or not specify the source.
Jaqaru also does not allow indirect quotes with saja 'to say', but only embedding
of direct quotes.
In all of the languages, in referring to bodily states of a third person, thru-lg is
obligatory unless a form further away on the data-source scale is opted for.
Personal knowledge cannot be used.
In Jaqaru, the subordinate form {sashu} (cf. {sasaw} in Aymara) is used for
logical entailment following on a statement made by another person, usually
translated 'entonces', 'then', and usually occurring in the form /sashuq/. It is
frequent in general conversation.
(6) Jaqaru: Maktkaswa sashuq.
'Then, I'll be going.' (on being told, e.g., that it's getting late)
The thru-lg markers are not used for traditional tales or for ancient history,
only for information which could conceivably have come from a live source
(including books or written materials).
Nonpersonal-knowledge. The appropriate form in traditional tales or an-
cient history is the nonpersonal, which is marked primarily within the verb
conjugation. The remote tenses contrast personal with nonpersonal knowledge.
The forms are given here in a contrastive paradigm; the personal forms were
discussed above. Spanish glosses, as given within the translation tradition of the
Andes by both Spanish and Jaqi speakers, are also provided.
Aymara: Jupax ut unjatayna.
'She saw the house.' (nonpersonal)
('Habfa visto la casa.')
Jupax ut unjana.
'She saw the house.' (personal)
('Estaba viendo la casa.')
Jaqaru adds an additional distinction of relative closeness to now:
Jaqaru: Upaq ut" illkata.
(near nonpersonal remote)
'She saw the house.'
('Vela la casa.')
(recent past, but I did not see her)
Upaq ut" illwata.
(far nonpersonal remote)
'She saw the house.'
('Habia visto la casa.')
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 121
(far past, I did not see her, e.g., in myth or history, or, unexpectedly,
I stumbled on the knowledge)
Upaq ut" illkna.
(near personal)
'She saw the house.'
('Estaba viendo la casa.')
(I saw her see it)
Upaq ut" illriwna.
(far personal)
'She saw the house.'
('Solfa ver la casa.')
(I saw her see it and I'm not young anymore)
The remotes are also used as surprisals.
Jaqaru: Shumyaq mansan palwata.
'Shumaya ate an apple!'
Aymara: Shumayax mansan manq'atayna.
The nonpersonal tense markers are NOT a function of truth or falsity, but a
function of data-source.
Secondary Data-Source Marking or Weaseling
If the grammatical structure calls for a data-source marker, then such a marker is
obligatory. In all cases, one of the major three may be used; the three obligatory
markings cover every grammatical requirement. However, there are many gray
areas; a skillful speaker can opt to substitute one of the attenuators in lieu of the
frank, blunt, personal/thru-lg/nonpersonal markers already discussed. These
weasels are indicated, in a general way, in Figure 1. The weasel markings are
harder to discuss and to classify precisely because they are more involved in
interaction, in personality, and in style. What follows is a general discussion.
In general, Jaqaru indulges in greater play with sentence suffixes, even to
piling up several together. Aymara, on the other hand, has more inflections that
can be used for such purposes.
Reconfirmation (data-source greater than -wa).
Aymara:
{-pi} reconfirmational. This suffix is usually used when the addressee
knows or ought to know, through personal knowledge, the matter referred to as
well as the speaker.
(7) Aymara: Walikpj_.
'OK, of course.'
122 Evidentiality in North and South America
It occurs frequently in combination with {-"} or { -ya} for emphasis or as an
exclamation.
(8) Aymara: Ukatpiy walitàlxtax.
'Then you got well.'
('Despueš te has sanado.')
Jaqaru:
{-ishi} personal remembrance. This suffix functions somewhat like the re-
confirmational of Aymara. A fact is directly within the personal knowledge of
both speaker and hearer, within the personal time line.
(9) Jaqaru: Mawtawishi.
'I remember that you went.'
('Claro que te fuiste.')
{-sk"a} contradiction. This suffix is used to mock another's assertion of
personal knowledge with contrary personal knowledge of one's own.
(10) Jaqaru: Armask"a.
'Impossible that it still be night!' (e.g., it's very obviously daytime—
the sun's up)
Attenuation. Attenuation of personal knowledge, short of using thru-lg, is
done entirely with sentence suffixes and is extremely sensitive to interpersonal
interactions. It may be used, for example, to defer to a presumed greater claim to
personal knowledge on the part of another. Aymara has, basically, only one
sentence suffix used for this purpose, {-xa}, plus its combinations with another
sentence suffix, yielding {-xaya} or {-xa}.
{-xa} attenuator. This suffix is the most frequent in the Aymara language
and, when employed with other sentence suffixes in the sentence, plays many
roles other than data-source. Alone, it injects a meaning of 'surely' or 'doubt-
less', as if there were a possibility of contradiction, although such is not ex-
pected. It is the one means of shading within personal knowledge; it is often used
when one is unsure of one's witnessing, as in the first example below, where the
child speaking is not sure she does recognize the person spoken to.
(11) Aymara: hkuylar juttaxa.
'You're the one who came to school.'
(12) Aymara: Uk"amak lurapxituxay.
'That's the way they treated me!' ('Asi no mâs me han hecho (una
maldad)') (They did not, of course, do it in my presence.)
These may be used in other combinations, and thus appear in sentences else-
where on the data scale (see especially 'copping out', below).
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 123
For Jaqaru the pattern is far more complex, primarily because there are more
sentence suffixes and their combinations are more easily allowed.
{-qa} attenuator. This suffix is cognate with Aymara {-xa} and plays much
the same role (but see next suffix).
(13) Jaqaru: Yanhishmashsrug mawi.
'She doubtless went to visit the one who helped us.'
{-ja} surprisal attenuator. This suffix is used for situations of marginal
personal knowledge. It is less definite than {-wa} but more than {-qa}. Given the
distribution, it would appear that at some point in the history of Aymara, the two
attenuators fell together; phonological change points in that direction.
(14) Jaqaru: Shumyaq t'ant"q palwija
'Shumaya indeed ate bread.'
('Shumaya sf comio pan.')
(15) Jaqaru: Atz'ik suylja
'It is doubtless cold whey.'
{-Mi}. By itself this is simply an emphatic and combines readily with the
primary data-source sentence suffixes for adding additional detail to data source
specification.
{-qilli}. Personal knowledge but with an edge of doubt, as when being
challenged.
(16) Jaqaru: Nik"agiII aruwtkasa.
'I already spoke earlier. '
(you think I didn't?)
{-sk"aqa}. Another attenuator.
(17) Jaqaru: Marqayawq' 't"sk' 'aqa.
'We all returned (I think).'
{-sk"amna}. Marks a contradiction of what one believed to be personal
knowledge.
(18) Jaqaru: Waruwq' 'kt"sk"amna.
I tremble again they say.
(I thought I was well; I hadn't noticed the return of the illness.)
{-mnilli}. Hearsay, but with some assertion that this is only second hand
rather than, say, third or fourth.
124 Evidentially in North and South America
(19) Jaqaru: Sakimnilli.
'They say they're talking.'
('Dice que dice.')
Inferential. In Aymara the inferential is part of the verb inflection, and acts
syntactically much like the remote tenses. It is used for judgments made on
indirect evidence; inferential is an accurate label.
(20) Aymara: Jupax ut uhjpacha.
'She sees/saw the house.'
(I infer from, e.g. stuff left.)
('Habrâ visto la casa.')
The inferential may combine with the future or the remote. In combination
with the inferential the remote is {-"na) and does not further specify data-source.
(21) Aymara: Jupax ut unjpachani.
'She will see the house.'
('Vera la casa.')
(22) Aymara: Jupax ut unjpachâna.
'She saw the house.'
('Estaba viendo la casa.')
It is the appropriate data-source indicator for the third-person bodily states where
the person has not spoken.
(23) Aymara: Manq'at awtjpacha.
'She is hungry.'
In Jaqaru the matter is far more complicated, again with sentence suffixes.
However, conceptually, the inferential as a category is weaker and more slippery
than in Aymara. The following examples are listed in approximate order of
strength, the first being the strongest.
{-jilli}. This is an attenuated inferential, also functioning somewhat like the
Aymara inferential.
(24) Jaqaru: Shumyaq palwijilli t'ant"qa.
'Shumaya surely ate bread.'
('Shumaya debio haber comido pan.')
{-psilli}. An inferential functioning much like the Aymara {-pacha}, but
marking the more direct side of inference.
(25) Jaqaru: Mawipsilli.
'She doubtless left.' (e.g., her books are gone)
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 125
{-sk"apsa}. An inferential usually based on past experience.
(26) Jaqaru: Qayllkunask' 'apsa.
'It's most likely the children.'
('A lo mejor los chicos.')
{-jashi}. One more inferential.
(27) Jaqaru: Ut illwijashi.
'She surely saw the house.'
('Habrâ visto la casa.')
{-psa}. This is the weakest of the inferentials, and in most examples belongs
on the other side of nonpersonal. However, particularly for third-person bodily
states where the person referred to has not spoken, it corresponds neatly to the
Aymara inferential.
(28) Jaqaru: Atz'ikipsa.
'She's cold.'
Aymara: T 'aypacha.
Copping Out or Less than Nonpersonal. Aymara has a specific tense
called the 'noninvolver' which sets the speaker outside the realm of responsibil-
ity, and thus exonerates the speaker even if there should be personal knowledge.
(29) Aymara: Jupaxay ut uhjchixa.
'She sees/saw the house' (but 1 won't vouch, and don't blame me)
The noninvolver may combine with the future, both remotes, the desiderative,
and the remonstrator.
(30) Aymara: Jupaxay ut uhjchini.
'She will see the house.'
('Tiene que ver la casa.')
(31) Aymara: Jupaxay ut unjchitayna.
'She saw the house.'
('Habfa visto la casa.') (third hand)
(32) Aymara: Jupaxay ut unjchi'na.
'She saw the house.'
('Estaba viendo la casa.')
v33) Aymara: Jupaxay ut unjchispa.
'She could see the house.'
('Puede ver la casa.')
(34) Aymara: Jupaxay ut unjchisapana.
126 Evidentiality in North and South America
'She should have seen the house.' t
('Hubiera visto la casa.')
There is also one sentence suffix, which may only co-occur with {-chi}, which
is used for that which cannot be known, ever, by personal knowledge.
(35) Aymara: K"arik"arichim k"arsuskchi.
'Maybe the pishtaco got him. '
This suffix, today, is an extreme of nonpersonal knowledge. Not only does the
speaker have no direct knowledge, but direct knowledge is, in fact, unobtaina-
ble. The 'pishtaco' of the above example is a fat-extractor never seen by his
victims. The modern {-chim} appears to be a combination of the modern inflec-
tion {-chi} plus the cognate of Jaqaru {-mna} hearsay, still productive in that
language (see above). For {-m} the story is reconstructable.
In Aymara, proto suffixes of the shape * -CCV normally reduced to -CV, in
this case giving only {-ma}—one more of this form to add to the already half-
dozen in the language. Homophony resulting from sound change is acute in
Aymara; a number of structures have been affected in the apparent desire to
reduce the otherwise unwieldy homophony. In this case the suffix, now reduced
to simply I-ml, was enlarged with {-chi-} and simultaneously restricted in
occurrence.
The loss of a thru-lg suffix, the Proto-Jaqi ancestor of Jaqaru {-mna} and
Aymara {-m}, would leave a considerable gap in the data-source structure out-
lined for the Jaqi languages. Today there is the obligatory syntactic structure in
Aymara which neatly fills the gap and is used in precisely those situations which
call for {-mna} in Jaqaru (see above).
Jaqaru has two sentence suffixes which are beyond personal knowledge.
{-psa} guessing. This suffix is usually translated as 'perhaps'. It may be
used as a somewhat tenuous inferential or for guesses. The matter reported has
not been witnessed.
(36) Jaqaru: Mawq"ipsa.
'She probably left. '
('Tal vez se fué.')
(37) Jaqaru: Tukshuwipsa.
'Perhaps it is done.'
(Tal vez se termino.')
{-ashi} personal conjectural. The events referred are outside the personal
time line of both speaker and hearer.
(38) Jaqaru: Wajchchawkatanhtqashi.
'Maybe just because I am an orphan.'
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 127
Summary of Grammatical Realization
In both languages combinations of sentence suffixes and tenses which include
data-source allow further specification of data-source. These combinations are
frequent, and for some sentence types obligatory.
(39) Aymara: Jupaxgy t'ant' unjchixa.
'She saw the bread.'
('Habria visto el pan.')
(40) Aymara: Jich"ax wajch wajchaxay unjchtiaya.
'Now you'll probably miss them.'
(41) Aymara: Jupax t'ant' manq'pacha.
'She probably ate the bread.'
(42) Aymara: Shumyag t'ant"q palwatamna.
'They say Shumaya ate the bread. '
('Dice que habia comido pan.') (It is said, but no one has seen.)
(43) Aymara: Shumyaq t'anf'q^ palkanmna.
'They say Shumaya ate the bread.'
('Dice que estaba comiendo pan.') (X saw, told Y, Y told me)
(44) Aymara: Shumyaq t'ant"q palwatapsa.
'Shumaya doubtless ate the bread.'
('Habia tal vez comido pan.')
The points along the data-source scale, including both major categories and
transitional possibilities, common to all Jaqi languages are:
reconfirmation of personal knowledge
PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE
attenuation
KNOWLEDGE-THROUGH-LANGUAGE
inferential
NONPERSONAL KNOWLEDGE
copping out
The marking is common to all sentences through the device of sentence suffixes.
Markers are obligatory in the remote tenses as well as some others, and in some
syntactic patterns.
Personal knowledge and nonpersonal knowledge markers are cognate; thru-lg
is historically cognate with recognizably cognate patterns even today. Some
elements of the transitional marking are cognate (e.g. {-qal-xa}); others are
specific to the language involved.
TEXT DISTRIBUTION
Data-source in the Jaqi languages is both syntactic and paradigmatic. It is syntac-
tic in that it is distributed according to sentence, or even discourse, requirements.
128 Evidentiality in North and South America
This is particularly true of the additive functions of various data-source markers,
in their optional selection for courtesy reasons, and particularly in the use of the
secondary marks. It is paradigmatic in verb conjugations and in sentence types.
Distribution in Sentences
Data-source markers occur in both main and subordinate clauses, in all lan-
guages. In Jaqaru subordinate clauses may be inflected to mark data-source; two
of the forms of subordinates in Aymara, {-sal-sina}, may, in some varieties of
Aymara, contrast on the data-source scale. In general, however, data-source in
subordinate clauses is marked primarily with sentence suffixes.
(45) (Jaqaru) Uknurna jayrkatapna nakshuwata.
'While they were dancing inside, (the rabbit) burned them.'
(Both subordinate and main clauses inflected for nonpersonal.)
(46) (Jaqaru) Mamchanhshqa utkinhanwa kasarwajt"a.
'While I was living with my mother, I married.'
(personal knowledge; subordinate marked with -wa; main inflected for
personal)
(47) (Aymara) Lapis alasaw, wawar churi.
'Buying a pencil, she gave it to the child.'
(subordinate carries -wa, marking entire sentence as personal)
With the exception of sanalsaja embedding, the sentence-defining suffixes,
like {-tva}, in all of the languages occur only once per sentence, regardless of the
number of subordinate clauses. In sana/saja embedding the data-source marks
inside the quote need not agree with those outside.
Two successive clauses may be differently marked. Where the subordinate is
inflected the two clauses may be at different points on the scale, but this is
generally avoided for stylistic reasons.
(48) Jaqaru: Disprisiwp"w yakkutu wajchchawkatanhtqashi.
'They give me their scorn (personal), maybe just because I am an orphan
(guessing).'
More frequently the two clauses of coordinated sentences are marked for differ-
ent points on the data-source scale.
(49) Jaqaru: Shumyaq walnaqaw lluqaylljw, manh chujllup"mna niwnkata
'Shumaya ran after the Iad (personal knowledge); they say he was stealing corn.'
(thru-lg with nonpersonal surprisal)
The particular syntactic structure to which the mark is attached can indicate
those various portions as belonging to different points on the scale.
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 129
(50) Jaqaru: Shinkawkanmna.
'They (A) said they (B) were drunk. ' (A has personal knowledge of B but
the speaker does not)
(51) Jaqaru: Shinkawkanwa sawija.
'They (A) must have said "they (B) were drunk"'. (A has personal
knowledge of B but the speaker is not sure of the quote.)
(52) Jaqaru: Shinkawkanwa sawimna.
'They (A) say that they (B) said "they (C) were drunk".' (B has personal knowl­
edge of C, but the news has traveled through several hands (at least A)
before reaching the speaker.)
A few types of sentences may omit data-source marks, e.g. flat imperatives to
someone that one has the right to order about (parent to child, for example).
(53) Jaqaru: Ujtma.
Aymara: Jutam.
'Come!'
Paradigmatic Distribution
Data-source is paradigmatic in verb conjugations, as is most clearly seen in
3 —
* 3 person.
Jaqaru:
Aymara:
paluwi 'ate' ('comio')
palkna 'ate' ( 'estaba comiendo')
palkata 'ate' ('comfa'
palwata 'ate' ('habfa comido')
manq'i 'eats/ate' ('come/comić')
manq'âna 'ate' ( 'estaba comiendo')
manq'pacha 'ate/eats' ('esta comiendo')
manq'atayna 'ate' ('habia comido')
manq'chi 'ate/eats' ('habrâ comido')
Data-source is also paradigmatic in that it participates in the sentence suffixes
that occur once per sentence, and that form a paradigm of contrasting sentence
types.
Jaqaru:
Qamishasa. 'How is X?' CiComo esta?') (information
interrogative)
Amruchatxi. 'Is X well?' CiEstâ bien?') (yes/no
interrogative)
Amruchawa 'X is well.' ('Esta bien.') (personal
knowledge)
Amruchamna 'X is well, they say.' ('Dizque esta bien.') (thru-lg.)
Aymara:
Kamisasa. 'How is X?' C^Cômo esta?') (information
interrogative)
130 Evidentiality in North and South America
Walikiti. 'Is X well?' ('^Estâ bien?') (yes/no
interrogative)
Walikiwa. 'X is well.' ('Esta bien.') (personal
knowledge)
Sentences referring to body states also form a paradigm by person. (In all
cases the grammatical form is body state as subject, human as object, the gram-
matical persons being 3—»1, 3—»2, 3—*3.)
Jaqaru Aymara
1st person Yamkutuwa. Manq'at awtjituwa. 'I'm hungry'
2nd person Yamktamtxi. Manq'at awtjtamti. 'Are you hungry?'
3rd person Yamkimna. Manq'at awtjit siw. 'She said she's hungry.'
3rd person Yamkipsa. Manq'at awtjpacha. 'She's hungry.'
The last two contrast as to whether the person has spoken or not, or can; the last
one is used, for example, with babies. Person may occur with a marker further to
the right on Figure 1 than those illustrated above, but NOT with one further to the
left.
Since interrogatives are marked by their own sentence suffixes, as seen in the
paradigms above, they may be said to be part of the data-source paradigm in that
they state specifically that the speaker does not have the information.
Discourse and Narrative Distribution
No discourse or narration is free from the obligation of data-source marking, not
even written materials.
Placement of data-source mark within the sentence may indicate which item is
being specifically linked to preceding textual material. For example, the place-
ment of {-wa} will indicate the specific new piece of information being asserted,
in answer to the question, underlying or explicit.
Jaqaru Aymara
Naw^linkwistawt"qa. Naw_linkwistatxa. 'I am a linguist.'
Naq linkwistawt"wa Nax linkwistatwa. 'I am a linguist'
Interrogatives may not contain a second sentence-defining suffix, such as
{-wa}. However, data source may be marked in interrogatives by (a) use of data-
source verb inflections, (b) use of sana embedding, (c) use of attenuation, (d) use
of inferentials. Because interrogatives may also be used to soften an otherwise
blunt situation, such combinations are not rare (Hardman 1966; Hardman et al. in
press).
The remote tenses are used, frequently, as surprisals. For obvious reasons, the
nonpersonal remotes are by far the most frequent. The personal are only appro-
priate if one stumbles over something one has known before but forgotten, e.g.
where one put one's lunch. There are no restrictions on the persons that may
occur in surprisals. The usage has influenced Andean Spanish (see below).
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 131
(54) Aymara: Akankaskataynaw.
'So here they are!'
(55) Jaqaru: Antz laqwatawa.
'This is ugly!'
The skillful and accurate use of the data-source discourse devices at their
command is highly esteemed by the Jaqi peoples; minimum competent use is a
prerequisite to a claim to human status. Full study of discourse use will also
entail a critical literary study.
DATA-SOURCE IN OTHER SUBSYSTEMS
A full study of data-source marking would require a full study of the entire
grammar, including style, discourse, and oratory, all in great detail. Some allu-
sions were made earlier to various aspects of the interplay of other features with
data source and of the pervasiveness of this category in the Jaqi languages.
Subordinate verb inflections agree in part and/or may mark an entire sentence
by data-source.
(56) Jaqaru: Wakir utkatapna, wakap" ik"arpaypanqa, wakaq jayptawi.
'When she was a cowherder, when she was out herding her cows, the cows got
lost.' (remote nonpersonal, marked in subordinate)
In Aymara verb derivationals, the beneficiary is personal knowledge; the
'victimary' (or maleficiary) is nonpersonal.
(57) (Aymara) Tant' churarapiwa.
'She gave her bread for him.'
(58) (Aymara) Tant'ap churaraqiwa.
'She gave his bread to her.' (he didn't know about it, and is thus victimized)
Oiner verbal derivationals may alter to some degree the data-source marks in-
volved. In causatives the agent is marked partially in accord with data-source.
The independent suffixes in Aymara are heavily involved in data-source
nuances, in some ways acting like some of the Jaqaru sentence suffixes. For
example, {-raki} as an objector resembles {-sk"a} in its use.
(59) Aymara: Parlxaraktasd.
'But you already speak Aymara!' (even if you say you don't)
In all verb conjugations, second person, which is characteristically over-
marked, interplays with data-source. Some noun root subclasses have data-
source implications. Some noun suffixes reinforce personal knowledge, others
legate it. Particularly important is the suffix {-jama} 'like', which may, when
T32 Evidentiality in North and South America
acting as a data-source marker, even behave as an independent suffix or a
sentence suffix, co-occurring with verbs in a limited way.
(60) Aymara: Asnux f'aqshuchjamarakitaynasa.
'It looks like that donkey broke loose from the stake.'
(61) Jaqaru: Cxunhk watjama.
'I believe around ten years.' (noun sentence)
Ujtwatjamaqa.
'I believe she has arrived.' (verb sentence)
A number of particles have functions primarily associated with data-source,
e.g. Jaqaru {jalli} T don't know', Aymara {inasa} 'maybe' when occurring with
the noninvolver, Aymara {chiqat} acting as reinforcer, Jaqaru {ichaqa} also
acting as a reinforcer.
(62) Jaqaru: Jagit" arw ichaq laqaq.
'To talk about people is ugly indeed.'
Aymara verbalizes forms far more extensively than does Jaqaru; this is di-
rectly related to the greater involvement in data-source of verbal inflections in
Aymara and of sentence suffixes in Jaqaru.
(63) Aymara: Qalàpacha.
,,.,, , „ , ..„. 'It must be a rock.'
(64) Jaqaru: Qalajilh.
Both languages have many other tenses involving mode, aspect, realization,
etc. Two tenses, contrary-to-fact present and past, could also be considered to be
part of the data-source chain. I have not done so, however, because (a) their
primary functions are for wishing (desiderative) and scolding (remonstrative),
and (b) they co-occur with sentence suffixes which may reflect any point on the
data-source scale.
Some Aymara speaking students of linguistics are now beginning their own
studies of some of these aspects of Aymara. Those are indeed studies to look
forward to if we are to understand the scope of data-source marking in the Jaqi
languages.
CULTURAL CORRELATES
The pervasiveness of data-source in the language is paralleled by a similar
pervasiveness in the culture. Children are corrected immediately if they make a
data-source error. There are even relevant proverbs with which they are taught:
Aymara: Unjasaw {unjt) sanax, jan unjasax jani (unjt) sanakiti.
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaqi Languages 133
'Seeing, one can say "I have seen", without seeing one must not say
"I have seen".'
Jaqaru: Mush arma, ish illshuq jan artatxi.
'Seeing, speak; without seeing, do not speak.'
These proverbs are also used in disputes, to impugn the statements of the
adversary.
Those who come into the community from outside and state as personal
knowledge (i.e. with unmarked verbs and {-wa} or in Spanish with tenses corre-
sponding to the simple and future) facts which they know only through language
(e.g. things they have read in books) are immediately categorized as cads, as
people who behave more like animals than humans and, therefore, ought to be
treated like animals, specifically, through the loss of linguistic interchange.
Language is that which is most characteristically human, that which makes
people human, and that which is NOT extended to animals.
Outside helping agencies have run into this barrier in a big way. It is ex-
tremely difficult for Jaqi speakers to believe that it is possible to have a language
without data-source, a fact that has helped to contribute to the universal blindness
spoken of earlier. Why tell someone something they already know, and are just
too animal-like to wish to observe? Every Aymara assistant we have had at the
University of Florida has insisted that surely English speakers do mark data-
source; if it is not overt, then at least it must be 'understood' somehow. It always
takes a good deal of persuasion and illustration to lead to the belief that we really
are not lying when we use an unmarked sentence to relate material we have not
personally experienced. (As when I might say, 'Whorf was the student of
Sapir'—'No, I did not know them,—but no, I am not lying,—and no, I don't
have to say that I read it.' Sometimes I think we never quite succeed in the
endeavor. Even when the point is intellectually grasped, it is still difficult to act
upon at all times. To some degree we find ourselves having to adjust our
English.)
Contact and Translation
The details of the influence of this linguistic postulate of the Jaqi languages on
the Quechua languages are still being worked out and will be most significant in
the reconstruction of Andean prehistory. On the contemporary scene, the influ-
ences on the Spanish of La Paz specifically, and the Andes in general, are clear
indeed (Martin 1981a, 1981b; Laprade 1976, 1981). The verbal tense markings
have had more influence than the sentence suffixes, although the latter influence
is not lacking. The apparently 'empty' (for the Jaqi) pluperfect has simply been
co-opted as the nonpersonal-knowledge marker.
(65) Habla visto la casa.
'She saw the house.' (nonpersonal or surprisal)
134 Evidentially in North and South America
(66) Viô la casa.
'She saw the house (and I saw her see it).'
The translation tradition itself gives the following paradigm:
English ate was eating had eaten
Spanish comic corhia habia comido
Jaqaru paluwi palkna palwata
Aymara manq'i manq'âna manq'atayna
(personal (remote personal (nonpersonal
knowledge) knowledge) knowledge)
The use of the pluperfect is the most clear case of direct influence and the most
startling for Spanish speakers of other areas (Martin 1981). In addition, however,
another data-source distinction which exists, perhaps somewhat tenuously, in
other areas is made clear, and cut and dried, in the Andes.
(67) Vendre.
'I will come (maybe, but don't wait for me).' (nonpersonal)
(68) Voy a venir.
'I will come (and do wait).' (personal)
The inflected future is frozen as a dubitative; the syntactic future is a coir.mitted,
personal knowledge future. This contrast also causes misunderstanding for out-
siders who think they know Spanish.
These equivalences have become part and parcel of what I call the 'translation
tradition' of the Andes, and are felt to be, by both sides, the 'true' translation,
thus contributing to a thorough obscuring of the actual grammatical structure
involved in the contact situation. Even Spanish speakers from the Andes react
with disbelief when Spanish grammarians from other areas explain the 'real'
meaning of, e.g., the pluperfect.
Metaphors
In Jaqaru 'to understand' is ishapa 'to hear'; 'to lie' is yanhqan arki 'to speak in
vain'. In Aymara 'to understand' is amuyana 'to sense, to have in mind'. In both
languages to observe data-source is to speak well. It may be noted that lying and
truth are not moral issues but aesthetic ones. The metaphors given are related to
personal knowledge in that the latter is wider than 'to see'. Indeed, 'to see' ilia,
unjana is used itself metaphorically for 'to care for, to look after'. 'To believe'
in Aymara is 'to say OK' iyaw sana; Jaqaru has no equivalent. The Aymara
construction is mostly found in Protestant texts and may have been a construction
developed for that purpose.
Hardman: Data-Source Marking in the Jaql Languages 135
Other Observations
Many aspects of Spanish have been influenced in addition to its verb forms. For
example, in many areas there has been a retention of the now archaic form dizque
'they say' even by Spanish monolinguals. The syntactic correlate is that the
Spanish sentence Shumaya dice que comiô pan is nowhere ambiguous in the
Andes; it always means 'it is said that Shumaya ate bread', never what would be
the more usual reading elsewhere, 'Shumaya says she ate bread'. Also influ-
enced has been the use of Spanish particles, particularly pero, siempre, and pues,
so that they act like sentence suffixes interacting with data-source (Laprade
1976).
The judgment of the character of an individual rests in part (in large part, at
first meeting) on data-source use. For example, if missionaries claims as person-
al knowledge that Adam ate an apple, then they are seen as trying to put one over
on the listeners—claiming to have been present in the garden of Eden. Or, if a
Peace Corps volunteer, reading out of a book, claims as personal knowledge that
a certain seed will give a good crop, the perception, again, is one of someone
trying to deceive. The matter is not one of truth or falsity, but of misuse; not one
of morality, but accuracy. By misuse, the misuser is seen as trying to put
something over on the listener.
Misunderstanding goes both ways. When a Jaqi speaker is told 'I am from
California' and replies, in Andean Spanish or Jaqi, 'You say you are from
California', many an outsider feels accused of lying.
There is no weakening of data-source in contact with Spanish, although there
are some shifts; rather it is spreading and imposing itself on Spanish, and even on
the English of people who work long with Jaqi speakers.
Implications
Because data-source is a linguistic postulate of the highest order in the Jaqi
languages and therefore one which they will attempt to impose on those with
whom they come in contact, because it is assumed to be part of the natural order
(much as Indo-Europeans treat number and gender in contact situations), the
spread of data-source marking can be one more tool for the reconstruction of the
prehistory of the Andes. Of particular interest is its use in the Quechua languages
as a method for detailing the contact between the Jaqi and the Quechua, of prime
importance in Andean prehistory.
In applied projects, data-source within the Jaqi languages must be seriously
taken into account in the preparation of all bilingual materials and in the prepara-
tion of all materials providing information (e.g. agricultural bulletins). As I
mentioned in the Introduction, informational materials have been prepared al-
most entirely without such consideration, leading to their general rejection. I saw
one example of this in a primer prepared in summer 1980 by a German linguistic
team; the problem is still acute.
In addition to applied projects aimed at the indigenous populations, the influ-
136 Evidentiality in North and South America
ence of this postulate on the Spanish of the area must also be taken into account.
Materials prepared for Mexico or Puerto Rico, for example, cannot be used
without change. Either the writers will be seen as trying to put one over on the
readers, or the material will simply not be understood. One Spanish literature
professor, a student of mine in Bolivia, found that after understanding the mat-
ters explained in this paper he was, for the first time, able to lead his Bolivian
university students to an understanding of peninsular literature by explaining the
difference between their Spanish and that of the material they were reading—
literature they had formerly despised or rejected.
Data-source marking in Jaqi is not an extension or derivative of any other
system but is as close to a primitive as we get in language. Some of the markings
today are clearly derived from or extensions of forms having other functions,
diachronically and/or synchronically. Data-source marking is, however, per-
vasive and uncompromising, an integral part of the Jaqi world view.
REFERENCES
Bertonio, Ludovico. 1603. Arte y grammatica muy copiosa de la lengua aymara. Rome: Luis
Zannetti.
Briggs, Luch. 1976. Dialectical variation in the Aymara language of Bolivia and Peru. Doctoral
dissertation, University of Florida.
Ebbing, Juan Enrique. 1965. Gramatica y diccionario aymara. La Paz: Don Bosco.
Hardman, M. J. 1966. Jaqaru outline of phonological and morphological structure. The Hague:
Mouton.
1972. Postulado lingufsticos del idioma Aymara. El reto del multilingûi'smo en el Peru,
edited by Alberto Escobar. Lima, Peru: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
1978. Linguistic postulates and applied anthropological linguistics. Memorial volume in
honor of Ruth Hirsch Weir. The Hague: Mouton.
1983. Jaqaru: Comendio de la estructura morfolôgica y fonolôgica, traducido por Dimas
Bautista Iturrizaga. Lima, Peru: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos.
, ed. 1981. The Aymara Language in its social and cultural context. Gainesville: Florida
University Press, Social Science Series.
Hardman, M. J., Juan de Dios Yapita Moya, Juana Vasquez, with Laura Martin, Lucy T. Briggs,
Nora England, in press. Compendio de estructura fonolôgica y gramatical del idioma Aymara
ILCA (Instituto de Lenguaje y Cultura Aymara). (not available in English)
Laprade, Richard A. 1976. Some salient dialectal features for La Paz Spanish. M.A. thesis, Univer-
sity of Florida.
1981. Some cases of Aymara influence on La Paz Spanish. In Hardman ed., 1981.
Martin, Eusebia Herminia.
1981a. Data source in La Paz Spanish verb tenses. In Hardman ed., 1981.
1981b. Effect of Spanish tense versus Aymara tense on natural attitudes. In Hardman ed.,
1981.
Ross, Ellen M. 1963. Rudimento de gramâtica Aymara, 2nd Edition. La Paz: Canadian Baptist
Mission.
Torres Rubio, Diego de. 1616. Arte de la lengua Aymara. Lima.
Wexler, Paul, ed. 1967. Beginning Aymara: A course for English speakers. Seattle: University of
Washington.
EIGHT
Information Perspective, Profile,
and Patterns in Quechua
David J. Wcbcr
Huanuco, Peru
The Quechua languages1
of central Peru generally have three evidential suffixes
-mi, -shi, and -chi; these will be glossed 'direct' (DIR), 'indirect' (IND), and
'conjecture' (CNJ) respectively.2
The goal of this paper is to raise and possibly
answer some questions concerning -mi, -shi, and -chi, or at least provide descrip-
tive material which makes the questions and answers meaningful. Three major
points will be made:
1. -milshilchi give a perspective on the information of a sentence.3
By "per-
spective" I mean such things as how the speaker came by the information
(evidential, e.g., first hand or second hand), what the speaker's attitude is
toward the information {validational, e.g., does he regard it as fact/fic-
tion/conjecture . . .), what the speaker intends the hearer to do with the
information (e.g., believe it, act on it, doubt it, etc.). The question whether
-milshilchi are basically evidential or validational is addressed.
2. The relative positions of the so-called "topic" marker -qa, -milshilchi, and
the verb define a pattern. This pattern gives an information profile to the
information of the sentence, roughly characterizing the sentence's progres-
1
Quechua is a family of languages widely spoken in western South America. Primary attention is
given here to three dialects of the department of Huanuco (in central Peru) represented by the
following speakers: Amador Tucto Ramirez (ATR) of Marias (province of Dos de Mayo), Lorenzo
Albino Moreno (LAM) of Matihuaca (province of Ambo), and Teodoro Cayco Villar (TCV) and
Anastacia Nasario de Figuieredo (ANF) of Llacon (province of Huanuco).
2
These have sometimes combined with other suffixes or postpositions to yield variants (e.g.,
•mari from -mi+ari); such combinations are not considered in this paper.
3
An assumption made here is that the primary unit into which information (to be communicated
°y speech) is packaged is the sentence, where "sentence" is roughly defined as "afinite verb and its
subordinates." This covers all sentences except those whose main verb is an implicit copula.
137
138 Evidentiality in North and South America
sion from theme (topic, old information) to rheme (comment, focus, new
information).
3. Deviating from the normal pattern is a rhetorical device.
INFORMATION PERSPECTIVE
The evidential suffixes are testimony to the caution a Quechua speaker exercises
with respect to information. The following are, I believe, true of Quechua
culture:4
1. (Only) one's own experience is reliable.
2. Avoid unnecessary risk, as by assuming responsibility for information of
which one is not absolutely certain.
3. Don't be gullible. (Witness the many Quechua folktales in which the villain
is foiled because of his gullibility.)
4. Assume responsibility only if it is safe to do so. (The successful assumption
of responsibility builds stature in the community.)
The utility of -milshilchi lies in allowing the Quechua speaker to handily
assume or defer responsibility for the information he conveys, thus minimizing
his risks while building his stature in the community. With -mi the speaker
assumes responsibility, with -shi he defers it (to someone else), and with -chi he
indicates that it is not the sort of information for which anyone should be held
responsible.
What do -mi, -shi, and -chi mean? For Tarma Quechua, Adelaar (1979:79)
says that -milshilchi "indicate the validity of the information supplied by the
speaker" and that
-mi "indicates that the speaker is convinced about what he is saying,"
-shi "indicates that the speaker has obtained the information that he is
supplying through hearsay,"
-chi "indicates that the speaker's statement is a conjecture."
This characterization is consonant with the majority of cases found in a wide
range of dialects. Examples follow from Huanuco Quechua. The gloss some-
times includes the situation (ST) in which the example would be appropriate and
the rhetorical force (RF) it would have in this situation.
(1) TCV
fmi (an
Wanu-nqa-paq- \ shi (b) \
die-3FUT-FUT [ chi (c) J
'It will die.'
ST: a diviner has chewed coca and predicts death
4
Perhaps they are to some extent cultural universals?
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 139
(a) said by the diviner
RF: (I assert that) it will die.
(b) said by someone who brings the diviner's prediction
RF: (I was told that) it will die.
(c) said in response to the diviner or to the messenger
RF: (Perhaps) it will die.
(2) TCV
ni (a)
Noqa-
I
shi (b)
chi (c)
chaya-:-man aywar-qa
arrive-1-COND if:I:go-TOP
'I would/could/might arrive, if I were to go.'
(a) ST: In response to person(s) who have expressed doubt as to the speaker's
ability to make it (e.g. to the top of a mountain)
RF: (I assert that) I would make it if I were to go.
(b) ST: The speaker knows that someone has said he should able to make it
RF: (It is said that) I would make it if I were to go.
(c) ST: In response to expressed confidence that the speaker can make it,
when the speaker wants to hedge
RF: I might make it.
(3) TCV
r mi (a)
Qam-pis maqa-ma-shka-nki- I shi (b)
you-also hit-10BJ-PERF-2 { chi (c)
'You also hit me.'
(a) ST: I saw/felt you hit me (and was conscious)
(b) ST: I was drunk when you hit me, and someone has informed me that you
hit me
(c) ST: A group of people beat me up, and I think you might have been one
of them
These examples are consistent with the characterization of -mi as information
about which the speaker is convinced, -shi as information gained by hearsay, and
-chi as conjecture. I will now consider an alternative analysis.
-mi and -shi are evidentials. The characterization given above has the pecu-
liar property that -mi and -chi are validational (indicating commitment to the
truth of the proposition) while -shi is evidential (indicating the source of the
information). This gives rise to certain problems: for example, what about infor-
mation the speaker learns by hearsay but about which he is convinced; would -mi
or- shi be used? If -mi and -shi were both of the same type (i.e., either both
evidential or both validational) such problems would not arise. I will argue that
-mi and -shi are basically evidential: -mi means 'learned by direct experience'
140 Evidentialiry in North and South America
and -shi means 'learned by indirect experience (hearsay).' A validational in-
terpretation for -mi is often appropriate because of the axiom that direct experi-
ence is reliable (and thus one is convinced about it). (4) summarizes these
relationships (where the arrow indicates the force of the just-mentioned axiom):
(4)
EVIDENTIAL VALIDATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY
direct »- convinced speaker
indirect unconvinced other than speaker
There are various data which support this view:
1: -mi where direct experience is unlikely. According to TCV, 'My mother's
grandfather's name was John' is natural with -shi but not with -mi, even if the
speaker is convinced that it is true. This is because with -mi it implies that the
speaker has met his great grandfather. What is basic for -mi is the source of
the information (direct experience), not commitment to the truth of what his
name was. The same result obtains for a sentence that the speaker does not
believe, e.g. 'The moon is made of cheese.' According to TCV this is natural
with -shi, indicating that the speaker has been informed that the moon is made of
cheese. With -mi, says TCV, it implies that the speaker has been to the moon.
2: -shi to escape the implication of direct experience. A speaker may use -shi
when he wishes to escape the implication that he has had direct experience. For
example, descriptions of cultural practices and institutions are generally told
either with -mi or with no marker, but -shi is used if the speaker wishes to make
explicit that he has not had direct experience. This -shi has nothing to do with
whether the speaker really believes the information. For example, TCV believes
the following but, since he has not experienced it (he seldom chews coca), he
uses -shi:5
(5) TCV (from a description he wrote of coca use)
. . . mana kuka-ta chaqcha-r punu-y-lla-ta-shi munan
not coca-ACC chew-ADV sleep-INF-JUST-ACC-IND they:want
. . . kuka-ta chaqcharkuptin balur-nin-pis sumaq-shi yurirkun
coca-ACC chewing strength-3P-EVEN well-IND it:arises
5
For Huaraz (Ancash) Quechua Pantoja gives a similar example in his text on coca chewing
(1974:254). In his text on avoiding conception and abortion (number 25), he uses -shi throughout
except in statements like 'They told me that about them' (line 26) in which -mi is used. In Pantoja's
eighth text (p. 132) he uses -mi for the descriptive parts but -shi in cases where he wants to disclaim
responsibility for the information, e.g. (line 60-61): '. . . they say that those who do the fiestas (i.e.,
those who sponsor them) are really good. It takes away their guilt . . .'
Weber Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 141
'. . .if they don't chew coca, they just want to sleep.
. . . having chewed coca, their strength comes to them. '
The same results obtain where the information is not believed; for example, TCV
has not witnessed nor does he believe the following:
(6) TCV (from a description of burial practice)
Kikin kasta armaptin-qa fiyu nin.
themselves family if:they:bathe-TOP bad theyrsay
Llapan-shi chay kasta kaq-qa wanun.
all:of:them-IND that family which:are-TOP they:die
'They say it is bad for a relative to bathe it (corpse).
All of that family dies (if they do so).'
3: -shi when scope of information is too large. In some cases where -mi would
be expected, -shi occurs if what would have to be experienced is impossibly
large. For example, in Cayco 1975b (a booklet on Peruvian history) 'Their tools
and things are found throughout Peru' has -shi because the author could not
possibly have seen all those things found in all those places.
4: -shi is inappropriate as a direct response, -shi is never appropriate when
repeating some information back to the speaker. If -shi were basically valida-
tional (meaning 'unconvinced'), one might expect it to be used to indicate doubt
concerning what was just said. On the evidential view one would not expect it to
be used in this way, since there is no reason to inform one's interlocutor that
what he has just said was heard second hand.6
5: where -mi may be absent. Whereas many speakers use -mi in telling
personal narratives, describing procedures, institutions, etc., TCV does not. He
uses -mi only where there is some question about the source of the information.
When he reports events in which he was obviously a participant (e.g., a trip to
Lima, an amusing mishap that occurred to him and a cousin, etc.), he regards it
as unnecessary to indicate (by -mi) his direct experience.7
Other speakers demon-
strate this tendency to varying degrees. For example, ATR, in telling of going to
see a football game, did not use -mi in the parts describing his getting to and from
the game (told in the first person), but he did use -mi in describing the events of
other people (companions, players, referees).
Further, TCV does not use -mi for "non-events," i.e., happenings not some-
how embedded in time. (This is not to be taken as "irrealis" because he does use
-mi with the future tense.) He does not use -mi in "how-to-make" texts (how to
6
Note that -chi may be used to repeat information back to one's interlocutor.
7
The only exception is a description of a trip which concludes with Chaynawllami Limata aywar
imatapis rikashkaakuna 'In that way-DIR having gone to Lima we saw whatever'; this is the only -mi
in the text.
142 Evidentially in North and South America
make a basket, weave a poncho, build a house, butcher a sheep), in descriptions
of static objects (buildings, pictures), in descriptions of culture (coca chewing,
bathing, curing, fiesta administration), or in more narrative descriptions (Holy
Week happenings, engagement practice). These have in common that they do not
concern actual events (either past, present, or future) but rather hypothetical
instances of events. He is speaking/writing on these matters from direct experi-
ence (and would defend the accuracy of his descriptions); his non-use of -mi in
these cases is not because of a lack of commitment to the truth of his claims, but
because these are not actual, but hypothetical events.
6: -shi may also be interpreted validationally. -mi is often interpreted valida-
tionally because one is generally convinced of his own (direct) experience, -shi
may sometimes be interpreted validationally (meaning 'unconvinced') because
one believes much of what he learns indirectly. For example, a speaker (from a
dialect in northern Junin) wrote a pamphlet on cultivating pastures. His source of
information was an agricultural engineer with whom he had talked at length;
consequently the author used -shi throughout his pamphlet. Readers apparently
interpreted this as the author's lack of commitment to the idea: no one was
moved by it to plant a pasture. Such evidence is insufficient justification for
analyzing -shi validationally. In the same way, one should not, just on the basis
of some cases in which -mi is interpreted validationally, analyze it in that way
since these cases can be explained from an evidential analysis in terms of the
axiom that one's own experience is reliable.
These cases support the claim that the fundamental distinction is evidential:
what is at issue is not whether the author is convinced that what he is commu-
nicating is true or not, but whether or not he learned it by direct or indirect
experience.
A word must be said in defence of Adelaar's claim for Tarma Quechua that
-mi means 'convinced.' In all Ignacio Zarate Mayma's texts in Adelaar
(1977:308-407) and in Puente (1972), I have not found a single case of -shi.
Even though much of the material is far beyond the realm of the teller's experi-
ence (including folktales about the fox and the condor), he uses -mi throughout.
This is because he believes the stories he is telling; for example, he says, 'Even
the fox, being very powerful and very clever, died eventually. In the same way
today we are very clever and powerful . . . (319).' These facts justify Adelaar's
claims for Tarma.8
8
To the Huanuco Quechua ear, Zarate's use of -mi seems exceedingly incautious with respect to
the information he conveys. This suggests that perhaps he is not a member of a Quechua speaking
community which values his stature? Such cases are not unknown. For example, TCV knows a man
(referred to by his neighbors as "loko") who constantly uses -mi. TCV reports that no one believes
what he says because he "always speaks as though he had witnessed what he is telling about." (At
best he is an argumentative braggart and from TCV's description I would guess that he is mentally
ill.)
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 143
More on -chi. Given 'conjecture' as the meaning of -chi, one would expect it
to be an appropriate way to say 'Perhaps it needs to be wound' in response to
'Why is your clock not working?' Such is not the case. One could respond with
(7a) but not (7b):
(7) ( (a) Kapas pishi-n millu-na-n. \
Mana musya-:-chu } perhaps lack-3 wind-SUB-3 f
not know-l-NEGJ(b) *Pishi_n_chi miiiu.na-n. (
' lack-3-CNJ wind-SUB-3 )
'I don't know. Perhaps it needs to be wound.'
Why is (b) not acceptable? It is grammatical.9
Perhaps the answer lies with one
of the rhetorical effects of -chi now to be discussed.
In conversion, -chi is useful as a way to respond to a statement without
commitment to its truth—a way to avoid being taken as gullible. We will now
see that -chi achieves a wide range of rhetorical effects, based on its use as a way
to avoid commitment to the truth of a statement, a consequence of its marking
information for which no one should be held responsible.
-chi cannot initiate conversation. One may not initiate a conversation with
(lc) above; it must be said in response to a statement like (la) or (lb). To say
'Perhaps it will die' not following a statement like (la) or (lb), one uses the
Spanish loan kapas 'perhaps.'10
-chi as a query. In some cases, -chi results in a query, a sort of challenge to
answer. For example, if someone's boss is reading a list of those who are to go,
and the person is not sure whether his name was called he could say (8) to his
boss. It has the force of the question 'Am I to go?'
(8) TCV
Noqa-chi aywa-shaq-paq
I-CNJ go-lFUT-FUT
'I will go.'
9
For example, in response to 'Your clock needs to be wound' (Relohuykipishin millunan) one
could respond:
Pishi-n-chi millu-na-n. Millu-y ari!
lack-3-CNJ wind-SUB-3 wind-IMP emphatic
'It needs winding (you say; well go ahead and) wind it!'
10
For example, one could say
Kapas wanunqa
perhaps if.will.die
'Perhaps it will die.'
144 Evidentially in North and South America
In response to 'John killed his son,' (9) would be a challenge to respond,
roughly, 'If you could give an adequate reason why he would do such a thing,
then I might believe what you say.'
(9) TCV
Wamra-n-ta-chi wanuchi-ra-n ima-pita-(taq)
child-3p-ACC-CNJ kill-PAST-3 what-ABL-(?)
'He killed his son because of what?'
In Cayco (1975a:18) the cat says 'You are going to play (music)' with -chi, to
which the dog and the donkey answer 'Yes, yes!' The fact that it is answered
shows that the rhetorical force of the sentence is a query.
-chi as a negative. In some cases the rhetorical force is equivalent to a
negative. For example, the following sentence conveys something like 'So you
think I know? I don't know a thing about it!'
(10) TCV
Chay-ta musya-yka-:-chi
that-ACC know-IMPFV-1-CNJ
'1 know that.'
Suppose two peoples' paths converge, and after walking a short distance together
they take a rest. One gets up and, on the assumption that the other is continuing
in the same direction, says, 'Let's go.' The other, who was not planning to go
further, might reply:
(11) TCV
Noqa aywa-yka-:-chi qam-paq-qa
I go-IMPFV-1-CNJ you-PUR-TOP
T am going (on your behalf).'
The rhetorical force is roughly 'you might have thought I was going (there), but
I'm not.' It is a curt/abrupt way to respond, definitely not polite. It could
comfortably be followed by an emphatic denial like noqa aywaykaataqchu 'I'm
not going!'
-chi asflippant, sarcastic, or haughty. In Cayco (1974) the fox, while pranc-
ing about showing off, accidentally steps on a frog, and says:11
(12) TCV
Sapu-ta-chi ima-chi haru-riyku-: hahaa hahahaha
frog-ACC-CNJ what-CNJ step-ASP-: (laughs)
'It seems I've stepped on a frog, haha hahahaha!'
" In (12) ima-chi has either become frozen, or ima 'what' is present simply to support an added
-chi.
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 145
To conclude, -chi has various special restrictions and rhetorical effects (ques-
tion, negation, sarcasm, etc.) which do not obviously follow from its evidential
or conjectural function. Further research may yield more refined explanations for
them.
INFORMATION PROFILE
What determines where -milshilchi occur in a sentence? Perhaps in some dialects
they are directly associated with a pragmatic function. For Tarma Quechua, both
Creider (1979:16f) and Adelaar (1977:80) identify the element to which
-milshilchi is attached as "focus." This is not true generally for Huanuco
Quechua (although it sometimes is the case), as shown by (13). Note that in the
second sentence 'having tied me' is not the focus (being thematic) and yet bears
-mi.
(13) LAM
Hatratruu-m; wataraykaa. Wataykamar-w; aywamusha.
on:bush-DIR I:am:tied tying:me-DIR she:went
'I am tied on a bush. Having tied me (here), she went.'
The pattern in Huanuco Quechua. The evidentials, -qa 'TOP(IC)', and the
verb generally pattern in Huanuco Quechua as in (14). ((X)j means "between i
and j cases of X," < means "precedes but not necessarily contiguously," and
< = means "precedes (not necessarily contiguously) or coincides with".)
(14) (X-qa)l < (Y-EVD)Ô <= VERB ({OBJ-qa,SUBJ-^a}^
This means that there may be any number of elements bearing -qa, followed by
the element bearing the -milshilchi, which must either precede the main verb or
be the main verb itself; this may be followed by one or two -#a-bearing elements,
which must be the subject or object.
The practical limit on the number of occurrences of -qa is probably five. For
example, (15), an extreme case, has five -qa's.12
(15) LAM
Chawrana-ga puntatruu-ga trayaruptin-ga wamrata-<?« mayna-shi
so.already-TOP at:the:peak-TOP arriving-TOP child-TOP already-IND
Diosninchi-ga heqarkaykachisha syelutana-s/u
our:God-TOP had:taken:her.up to:heaven:already-IND
'When she (the witch) reached the peak, God had already taken the child up into
heaven.'
(15) violates (14) in that the evidential-bearing element follows the verb.
146 Evidentially in North and South America
To what extent is (14) followed? Counts made on written folktales by three
Huanuco authors (from the three different dialects considered) yielded the fol-
lowing results:13
(16) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
.67 .57 12% 5% 293
.30 .27 6% 3% 387
.13 .54 5% 1% 575
(1) = number of -qa per sentence
(2) = number of evidential suffixes per sentence
(3) = percentage of sentences not conforming to (14)
(4) = percentage of sentences having a post-verbal subject or object
(5) = approximate number of sentences counted
Note that the number of pattern-deviating sentences (3) and the number of
postverbal subjects and objects bearing -qa is very closely proportional to the
frequency of -qa (1). That is, the more frequently -qa occurs, the greater the
frequency of sentences deviating from (14) and sentences having a postverbal
subject or object which bears -qa. These figures amply demonstrate that there is a
pattern, with deviations (for various authors) running from 5% to 12%.
The pattern as information profile. The image of sentence in terms of
which this discussion is framed is roughly that which has evolved in the Prague
school (Firbas 1971): a sentence is seen as a crescendo of communication-
advancing material. It builds from elements which relate it to the context (theme,
old information, topical material) and material which sets the stage for the
communication-advancing material, to the material which advances the commu-
nication (rheme, new information). A few disclaimers are in order: admittedly,
the notions of theme, rheme, old information, new information, topic, focus,
etc., are very difficult ones to define or convincingly impose on text. And the
boundary between thematic and rhematic material is not a discrete one. Despite
these problems, the theme-rheme distinction captures, in my opinion, something
real about sentences.
13
Sentence-initial chayshi or chaymi was not counted as chay 'that' followed by an evidential
because it has become a single word (a sentence-initial conjunction meaning 'then' or 'because of
that'). Evidence for this is that an evidential suffix may occur elsewhere in the sentence. The actual
number of sentences counted was slightly larger than the counts given since sentences without finite
verbs were generally not counted.
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 147
I suggest that the pattern of (14) serves roughly to characterize a sentence's
progression from thematic to rhematic material. I call this progression an "infor-
mation profile." That is, with fair accuracy one can tell what parts are thematic
and what parts are rhematic simply from the pattern of -qa(s), the evidential, and
the verb. This should not be construed as identifying the evidential suffix with
any particular element, e.g., the first rhematic or the last thematic one. The
strongest claim that can be made is apparently that in "ordinary" sentences, the
thematic material occurs to the left of the evidential suffix and the rhematic
material follows the last preverbal -qa.
As a first justification for information profile consider the conclusion to
Weber (1980): "-qa marks those constituents of a sentence which, in the speak-
er's view, are most responsible for that sentence being relevant to its context." If
this is correct, then the initial -ga-bearing elements contain material which is
thematic, while the rhematic material follows.
The following examples further support the information profile explanation.
Consider (17), the beginning of a text. In (a), the rhematic information is that
there was a famine. This becomes thematic in (b); the rhematic information is
that the famine was long ago. In (c) the thematic part sums up (a) and (b) 'so
when there was a famine. ' Note how in (b) and (c) the pattern of -qa'& and -shi's
relates to the progression from thematic to rhematic material:
(17) ANF
(a) Chayshi karan muchuy.
so there:was famine
(b) Muchuy-shi karan unay.
famine-IND there:was long:ago
(c) Chawra-qa muchuy kaptin-qa pasaypa mana-shi imapis karanchu
So-TOP famine being-TOP really not-IND anything there:was
mikunanpaq.
to:eat
'There was a famine.
The famine was long ago.
So there being a famine, there really was not anything to eat.'
In (18), note that the thematic material in (b) is a repetition of the rhematic
material of (a):
(18) ANF
(a) Machka papata-shi qaran wamrata-qa.
mealy potato-IND she.gives child-TOP
(b) Chawra machka papata qaraptin-qa wamra-qa
so mealy potato when:she:hands-TOP child-TOP
148 Evidentially in North and South America
aptarkun-shi
she:grasps:it-IND
'She (the witch) gives the child mealy potatos.
So when she gives her a mealy potato, the child grasps it.'
In (19), note the repeated interjection that there were many children (too many to
feed). When it is repeated in the last sentence, it is much more thematic than on
its first mention (in the second sentence), and thus it bears the -qa and -shi. Note
the thematic clause of the third sentence repeating the rhematic material of the
first:
(19) ANF
Chawra utkupa murullanta-shi tarimun.
So cotton just.seed-IND sherfinds
Wamra achka kasha,
child many there were
Chayshi utkupa murullanta tarirkamur-qa ankaq-shi.
so ofxotton itsrseed finding-TOP she:fried-IND
Wamra-qa achka-shi kasha.
child-TOP many-IND there:were
'So she found only some cotton seeds.
There were many children.
So finding just some cotton seeds, she fried them.
There were many children.'
Example (20) (Albino 1980c) shows that the thematic element may reach back
across background material. The second and third sentences (with verbs in the
past perfect) are not on the event line. The thematic adverbial clause in the last
sentence picks up from the first sentence.14
(20) LAM
Y trayachin markaman {mayman-mi hipash qeshpisha} chayman.
And it.brings.him to.the.town {to:where-DIR girl she:escaped} to:there
Hipash-qa willakushana kasha kaynuy paasanqanta.
girl-TOP had:already:been:told like:this what:had:happened
Chaynuy willaakuptin iglesyaman witrapaakush kash.
like:that being:told intoxhurch she:had:been:shut:in
Chawra-qa iglesya punkuman trayarur-qa kondenadu-qa nin-shi . . •
so-TOP church to:door arriving-TOP condemned-TOP says-IND
'And it brings him to the town, to the place where the girl had fled.
The girl had been told what had happened.
The braces mark off a correlative relative clause.
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 149
When she had been told that, she was shut into the church.
So arriving to the door of the church, the condemned one says . . .'
To conclude, these examples show that the pattern in which the -qa's, the
evidential, and the verb occur characterize (in a loose way) a sentence's progres-
sion from thematic to rhematic material.
Other dialects. Huaraz (Ancash) Quechua (HQ). The pattern in HQ seems to
be (21):15
(21) (X-EVD)i < (Y-qa% < VERB < ({OBJ-qa,SUBJ-qa}%
Examples like (22) (from Larsen 1974) suggest that this pattern is used to
indicate the progression from thematic to rhematic elements. However, unlike
Huanuco Quechua, in HQ the thematic element is the initial, evidential-bearing
constituent and the following -#a-bearing element may be rhematic. (The last
sentence contains the first mention of a dove, which bears -qa.)
(22)
Porfin tsaynoo kaykaayaptin-na-shi gallu kantaykun.
finally like.that they:being-NOW-IND rooster hexrows
Kantaykuptin-na-shi . . . . mas Uuqan lluqan.
when:he:crows-NOW-IND . . . more hexlimbs hexlimbs
Tsay lluqaykaptin-na-shi paluma-qa lapapapap ayukun.
that climbing-NOW-IND dove-TOP flapping he:goes
'Finally as they were like that, a rooster crowed.
When it crowed, he climbed higher and higher.
As he was climbing, a dove went flapping off. '
Tarma (Junin) Quechua (TQ). Ignacio Zarate Mallma's texts in Adelaar
(1977) and Puente (1975) strongly evidence the pattern in (21) given above.
However, whereas in HQ the evidential-bearing element may be a conjunction, a
noun, an adverbial clause, etc., in Zarate's texts it is virtually always chay
'that.'16
15
The practical limit on n (the number of occurrences of pre-verbal -qa's) is perhaps 3; 1 have yet
to see more.
16
Sometimes this chay is followed by a case marker (e.g., Chay-pita-mi 'After that' Chay-
nuypa-mi 'In that way' . . .) or forms a definite noun phrase (e.g., Chay atoqyupay-mi 'like that
fox'). Also possible is chinarkur-mi 'then' (from chay nirkur?). Rarely kay 'this' is used rather than
chay. In rare cases the evidential-bearing element is some longer, thematic material; e.g., in (b)
(from a text by Ignacio Zarate Mallma in Adelaar 1977:309):
(a) Chinarkur atoqta qipikura washanman.
then fox:ACC he:took:him onto:his:back
Î50 Evidentially in North and South America
In TQ the pattern also seems to characterize roughly the progression from
thematic to rhematic material. As in Huanuco, the thematic material will bear -qa
(Adelaar 1977:71). However, in TQ the evidential suffix will also be on thematic
material. For example, consider (23) (from Adelaar 1977:310). The preceding
text describes the setting for a wedding, so 'in that wedding' is thematic in (a). In
(b) chaytruu is thematic since (a) has told the reader that they arrived "t'uere."
The evidential in both sentences is attached to the sentence-initial element link-
ing the sentence to its context.
(23) IZM
(a) Chay-mi chay kasamintutruu-qa naa trarunaq lapan
that-DIR that wedding.at-TOP now they:arrived all
pishqukuna kay pampa pachapita altu pachaman
birds this ground place:from high place:to
(b) Chay-mi chaytruu-qa kanaq montikuna
that-DIR there:at there:were woods
'(a) And so, for the occasion of that wedding, all the birds had arrived in heaven
from the earth,
(b) There were woods in that place.'
Cajamarca Quechua (CQ). This section is included to show that similar
patterns hold for very different dialects, while speakers of the same dialect differ
considerably in their use of -qa and evidentials. CQ is a northern Peruvian
dialect. It is unique among Quechua languages in commonly allowing both -qa
and an evidential to occur on the same word. (Other dialects rarely allow it; see
Weber 1980, example 7 from Huanuco Quechua.) Folktales were counted for
two speakers: Cruz Landa Quito (CLQ) (roughly 315 sentences) and Blanca Ortiz
Ch. (BOC) (roughly 381 sentences). They are faithful to the following patterns to
the degree indicated (discounting post-verbal subjects and objects bearing -qa,
and evidentials on main verbs, both of which are allowed):
CLQ: (X-(qa)-EVD) < (Y-qa) < VERB [97%]
BOC: (X-EVD) < (Y-qa) < (Z-qa) < VERB [98%]
Both allowed two pre-verbal -qa's, but BOC never (with one exception) placed
-qa on the evidential-bearing word, while CLQ used only one pre-verbal -qa
other than the -qa co-occurring with the evidential. The frequency of -qa was
remarkably similar for the two speakers (.36 and .39 -qa's per sentence for BOC
(b) Chinarkur washanman qipikurkur-mi paariyta qalayura.
then onto:his:back having:taken:him-DIR to:fly he.began
'Then he took the fox upon his back.
Then, after taking him upon his back, he started to fly.'
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 151
and CLQ, respectively), but BOC used significantly fewer evidentials than CLQ
(.20 vs. .71 evidentials per sentence). Despite these differences, it is evident that
the evidential, -qa, and the verb occur in a pattern. A cursory look suggests that,
in CQ as well, this pattern roughly characterizes the sentence's progression from
thematic to rhematic material.
PATTERN DEVIATIONS AS A RHETORICAL DEVICE
There is a basic pattern for the occurrence(s) of -qa, the evidential, and the verb,
with few deviations from this pattern (5-15%). These deviations are not ran-
domly distributed in a text, but constitute a rhetorical device for marking crucial
points in a narrative.17
Three kinds of deviation have been noted.
First, pattern deviations occur at textual boundaries, e.g., sentences l'ke 'So
the three of them go on their way' which concludes an episode, like 'And then
there appears a hawk' which begins an episode, and like (24) which implies a
change of scene:18
(24) TCV
Chaypita atoq chayan runaman-shi
afterrthat fox he:arrives to:man-IND
'After that the fox arrives at the man's place.'
Second, deviations sometimes flag a theme on which tension is built in the
narrative. For example, a tension running through one text is a girl's ignorance of
what the witch has done with her brother (particularly since her ignorance puts
her in considerable danger). The girl asks about her brother and does not get a
satisfactory answer. She asks a second time, and her question is set by 'Again the
girl asks . . . ' where X-shi < Y-qa < verb. The danger she is in is brought home
by a sentence saying that the witch had cut her brother up and put him in a pot to
boil, in which X-shi < Y-qa < verb. After some intervening events, the tension
builds with 'And she asks the witch about her brother' in which \erb-shi < Y-qa.
The girl's preoccupation with her brother, and the reader's concern that she
realize her dangerous situation, are resolved when the bird and Log inform her,
where W-qa < X-qa < Y-qa < verb < Z-shi.)19
This illustrates a tension woven
into the narrative which is flagged by pattern deviations.
17
Not all pattern deviations are crucial points, and conversely, not all crucial points involve a
deviation from the pattern.
18
This accords well with the observation that chaypita 'thereafter, then' is a very "loose
connective," the sort which initiates paragraphs.
,9
Chawra-qa yukish-qa sapu-qa asta willan wamrata-sh
then-TOP bird sp.-TOP frog-TOP even they:tell to:the:child-IND
'So the yukish and the frog tell the child.'
152 Evidentiaiity in North and South America
Third, two intertwined themes may be kept distinct by making the sentences
of one strand conform to the pattern, while making those of the other strand
deviate from it. For example, in Cayco (1975b) two elements are intertwined: (1)
that which happened or was long ago, and (2) the basis on which we know such
things. Very consistently, the 1-sentences have past verbs (tense marker -ralrqa)
and -shi on some constituent following the verb, thus deviating from (14), and
the 2-sentences have present tense verbs, have -na 'now' somewhere in the
sentence, and do not violate (14).20
To conclude, deviation from the pattern (14) is a rhetorical device which can
be used to mark boundaries, to signal a theme of concern, and to interweave two
themes. There may well be many further uses various speakers make of this
rhetorical device.
OTHER USES OF -mi AND -shi
For the sake of completeness, four non-evidential uses of -mi and -shi are
presented.
-mi as a question marker, -mi is sometimes used in the formation of content
questions.21
Far more common for this is -taq (or -raq, see Diana Weber 1979).
For example,
(25)
¥
AZq S i cha
yamusha
'Who arrived?'
-mi in correlatives, -mi is a structural feature of correlative relative clauses. It
co-occurs with other evidentials, and is -mi regardless of whether the other is
-mi, -shi, or -chi. One example is in (20) and another is (26) (where the cor-
relative is enclosed in braces):
(26)
Kondenaa karkamur-qa chay runa-qa {maytruu-mi haqiran}
condemned having:been-TOP that man-TOP where-DIR he:left
chayman-shi trayan.
to:there-IND he:arrives
'Having been condemned, that man arrives to where he had left her.'
20
Generally the 2-sentences do not have an evidential suffix, but when they do, they conform to
(14).
21
Cerron (1976:108) states that a question with -mi is less polite than a question with -taq or
-raq, and indicates that the speaker has much confidence in his interlocutor.
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 153
-shi with complements. There is a rather restricted sort of complement in
which (1) the superordinate verb is a verb of perception (e.g., rika- 'see') or of
cognition (reqsi- 'be acquainted with'); (2) the verb of the complement is finite
(all other complements have a non-finite verb); and (3) the complement contains
a WH word with -shi. Examples are (with the complement bracketed):
(27) TCV
[Ima-shi kaykan chaychaw] rikaykamunki
what-IND there:is there go see!
'Go and see what is there!'
(28) TCV
Chaynawpa musyashun [mayqanchii-shi mas kalpa-yoq kanchi]
like:that we:will:know which:of:us-IND more strength-have we:are
'In that way we'll know which of us is the stronger.'
-chush = -chu-shi? -chush is probably derived from -chu 'yes/no question'
followed by -shi 'reportative.' It is used to form yes/no questions in the same
way as -chu, with slightly different semantic/rhetorical effect (which I am not
able to state precisely). An example from Adelaar (1977:83) follows:
(29)
Maa tupayuy, kuyurinaq-chush
let's:see push:it! it:turns:out:to:move-CHUSH
'Why don't you give it a push, to find out whether it moves or not!'
Adelaar also reports the use of -chuch (from -chu+chi -Y/N-CNJ) for Tarma
Quechua.
CONCLUSIONS
1. -milshi/chi allow the Quechua speaker to exercise caution in the amount of
responsibility he assumes for information. With -mi the speaker assumes
responsibility, with -shi he defers it to someone else, and with -chi he
indicates that it is not the sort of information for which anyone should be
held responsible.
2. -mi and -shi are evidential, but because of axioms like "one's own (direct)
experience is reliable," a validational interpretation is sometimes appropri-
ate for -mi.
3. -chi has rhetorical effects which have a basis in its use as a way to avoid
commitment to the truth of a proposition.
4- The relative positions of one or more -qa's, the evidential suffix, and the
main verb form a pattern which grossly characterizes the sentence's progres-
sion from thematic to rhematic material. In "ordinary" sentences, the the-
154 Evidentiality in North and South America
matic material occurs to the left of the evidential suffix and the rhematic
material follows the last pre-verbal -qa.
5. Deviations from this pattern serve as a rhetorical device. Three uses of this
device were identified: occurrence at textual boundaries, for flagging high
tension themes in the narrative, and for intertwining two thematic strands.
I conclude by suggesting that information profiling and the use of pattern
deviations as a rhetorical device naturally follow from the status of -milshilchi as
indicators of information perspective. A marker of information perspective (be it
evidential or validational) accompanies the new information more naturally than
material which simply "paves the way" for it; thus, evidentials naturally occur
with the rhematic part of a sentence (provided they are free to do so). In conjunc-
tion with a marker of thematic material like -qa 'relevance to context,' this
naturally gives rise to a profile along theme-rheme lines. In addition, it is natural
that the speaker/author should tamper with the information profile for rhetorical
effect, since that goes to the very heart of rhetorical "punches": unsettling the
listener to make him take note. Information profiling and pattern deviations for
rhetorical effect are thus natural outgrowths of the states of -milshilchi as indica-
tors of information perspective.
REFERENCES
Linguistic Sources
Adelaar, Willem F. H. 1977. Tarma Quechua Lisse: The Peter de Ridder Press.
Burns, Donald and P. Alcocer H. 1975. "Un analisis preliminar del discurso en quechua: Estudio
lexico y grammatical del cuento Taklluscha y Benedicto en el quechua de Ayacucho' ' Docu-
mente de Trabajo No. 6, Yarinacocha: Institute Linguistico de Verano.
Cerron-Palomino, Rodolfo. 1976. Gramatica quechua: Junin-Huanca Lima: Ministerio de
Educacion.
Creider, Chet. 1979. "On the Explanation of Transformations" in T. Givon Discourse and Syntax,
pg. 3-21.
Firbas, Jan. 1971. "On the Concept of Communicative Dynamism in the Theory of Functional
Sentence Perspective" Studia minora facultatis philosophicae universitatis brunensis.
Givon, Talmy. 1979. Discourse and Syntax, Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 12, New York: Academic
Press.
Keenan, Edward and E. Ochs. 1979. "Becoming a Competent Speaker of Malagasy" in T. Shopen
Languages and Their Speakers Cambridge: Winthrop pg. 113-158.
Larsen, Hellen. 1974. "Some Grammatical Features of Legendary Narrative in Ancash Quechua" in
R. Brend Advances in Tagmemics The Hague: Mouton pg. 419-440.
Longacre, Robert. 1980, "Peak as a Zone of Turbulence" manuscript.
PuenteB., Bias. 1972. Quechua Tarmeno I: Textos, Documente de Trabajo No. 2, Lima: Centro de
Investigacion de la Linguistica Aplicada.
Weber, David. 1980. "On the So-called "Topic Marker" -QA in Huallaga (Huanuco) Quechua"
manuscript.
Weber, Diana Dahlin de. 1976. "Presuposiciones de Preguntas en el Quechua de Huanuco" Docu-
mente de Trabajo No. 8, Yarinacocha: Institute Linguistico de Verano.
Weber: Information Perspective, Profile, and Patterns in Quechua 155
Material Written by Quechua Speakers
Albino Mendoza, Lorenzo. 1980a. "Ishkay Ukushpa" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua
Hablantes, Huanuco.
1980b. "Ishkay Kwentukuna" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua Hablantes,
Huanuco.
. 1980c. "Kondenaado Y Hipash" manuscript.
Cayco Villar, Teodoro. 1974. "Cuento Atoq Waychaw y Sapo" Llacon.
1975a. "Libro de Cuentos en Quechua" Llacon.
1975b. "Peru Marcanchichu Unay Awilunchicuna Tiyashan" Llacon.
(editor). 1975c. "Unay Runacuna Parlashan" Llacon.
Landa Quito, Cruz. 1980a. "Chayqam Wafiuy" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua Hablantes,
Huanuco.
1980b. "Shumaq Kwintukuna" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua Hablantes,
Huanuco.
Ortiz Ch., Blanca M. 1980a. "Pinkichu Prinsesawan" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua
Hablantes, Huanuco.
1980b. "Suq Sapatiru Warminwan" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua Hablantes,
Huanuco.
Pantoja Ramos, Santiago, J. Ripkens and G. Swisshelm. 1974. Cuentos y Relatos in el Quechua de
Huaraz Volumes I and II, Estudios Culturales Benedictinos No. 3, Huaraz: Priorato de San
Benito.
Tucto Ramirez, Amador. 1980a. "Kimsa Konchukanukuna" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua
Hablantes, Huanuco.
1980b, "Unay Achakaypa Kwentu" Tercer Seminario de Autores Quechua Hablantes,
Huanuco.
PART TWO
EVIDENTIALLY
ELSEWHERE IN THE
WORLD
NINE
A Psychological Account
of the Development and Use
of Evidentials in Turkish
Ayhan A. Aksu-Koç
Bogaziçi University, Istanbul
Dan I. Slobin
University of California, Berkeley
For all past tense expressions in Turkish there is an obligatory choice between
one of two verb suffixes: (a) direct experience -dl (realized as -dil-dil-diil-dul
-tilnl-till-tu) and (b) indirect experience -ml§ [-mis] realized as -mi§l-mi§l
-mu§l-mu§). This paper concerns itself with the second form, which encodes
events to which the speaker was not a direct or fully conscious participant.1
The basic functions of the -ml§ form are to convey inference and hearsay. For
example:
(1) Ahmet gel- mi$.
Ahmet come m/j
'Ahmet came / must have come. '
(a) inference: The speaker sees Ahmet's coat hanging in the front hall, but has
not yet seen Ahmet.
(b) hearsay: The speaker has been told that Ahmet has arrived, but has not yet
seen Ahmet.
1
This paper is based on Slobin and Aksu 1982. The reader is referred to that paper for full details
of the argument summarized here. We would like to thank Francesco Antinucci for lengthy and
enlightening discussions on some of the topics considered here. D. I. Slobin expresses gratitude to
Hubert Dreyfus, who will hopefully detect some aspect of his skillful presentation of the ideas of
Merleau-Ponty. We acknowledge support from the William T. Grant Foundation to the Institute of
Human Learning and from NIMH to the Language-Behavior Research Laboratory, both at the
University of California at Berkeley, and from the American Research Institute in Turkey to A. A.
Aksu-Koç.
159
160 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
In addition to the everyday hearsay function, -ml$ has a special narrative
function, limited to accounts of unreal events outside the regular experience of
the speech community such as myths, folktales, dreams, and jokes. (However,
generally familiar events, such as those related in historical accounts and realistic
fiction, are usually reported in the past of direct experience, -dl.)
Our task is to characterize the PSYCHOLOGICAL underpinnings of the -ml§
form in Turkish. In this regard it is necessary to consider pragmatic extensions of
the form, as well as its historical origins and its course of development in modern
child language. First, however, let us consider the psychological grounds of the
"core" uses of the -ml§ form in Turkish—the expressions of inference and
hearsay.
EXPERIENCE AND INFERENTIAUTY
Unlike some of the other evidential systems considered in this volume, the
inferences encoded by -ml§ can be based on any kind of sensory evidence of
resultant state, with the provision that no aspect of the antecedent process itself
has been present in the speaker's consciousness. In psychological terms, the use
of -ml$ represents an experience of which the speaker has had no PREMONITORY
AWARENESS. Thus we are dealing not only with sensory evidence as grounds for
an assertion, but with an inference from sensory evidence which follows and is
not temporally coexistential with the process referred to. For example, (1) Ahmet
gelmi§ 'Ahmet must have come', is appropriate in the context of encountering
Ahmet's coat, but not in the context of hearing the approach of Ahmet's car,
because, in the latter case, the auditory sensory experience is part of the process
of Ahmet's arrival. Having heard the approach of the car, the speaker's con-
sciousness was involved in the process which led to the end state.
The -ml§ form encodes a lack of CONSCIOUS involvement, rather than simply
lack of speaker involvement, as shown in expressions such as
(2) Uyu- -mu$- urn.
sleep mis 1SG.2
'I must have fallen asleep.'
said upon awakening over one's books, or
(3) El- im- i kes- mi§- im.
hand 1SG.POSS. ACC. cut ml§ 1SG.
'I must have cut my hand.'
2
The following abbreviations are used in this paper: ACC = accusative, FUT = future, HAB =
habitual, LOC = locative, NEG.EXIS = negative existential, PRES = present, POSS = possessive,
SG = singular.
Aksu-Koç and Slobin: Development and Use of Evidentials in Turkish 161
said upon noticing a cut in one's hand. Such events, although predicated of the
speaker, occurred outside of the speaker's awareness. We wish to argue that this
externality of the process to awareness is at the core of all uses of the -ml§
particle.
INFERENCE VERSUS HEARSAY
In the inferential uses of -ml§, only the process leading to the end state is external
to consciousness, while in the hearsay uses, both process and end state are
external. In an inferential statement, the speaker's assertion presupposes the
reported event and the -ml§ particle indicates that the grounds of the assertion do
not come from direct experience of the event itself. Note that this usage is limited
to inference of completed processes from end states. Thus, as an inferential
statement, one cannot say, on seeing a cloudy sky,
(4) Yagmur yag- acak- mi§.
rain [NOUN] rain [VERB] FUT. ml§
An inferred expectancy must be expressed in modal terms, as, for example, the
equivalent of 'It will probably rain'. However, (4) is both grammatical and
appropriate in predicting rain on the basis of hearsay, such as a weather forecast,
carrying the meaning 'It is reported that it will rain'. Here the speaker's assertion
presupposes the report of the event, and the -ml§ particle indicates the grounds
for the speech act—namely, that the speaker is conveying information received
in verbal form.
When suffixed to a verb root, as in (1), -ml§ can convey either inference or
hearsay, because a past process can be apprehended indirectly either through
perception of its results or through verbal report. However, an inferential reading
is not possible when -ml§ is suffixed to a stative or existential expression or to
verb complexes conveying iterative, habitual, or durative notions. For example,
(5) Iskender bura- da- ymis
Iskender here LOC. ml§
'Iskender is here.'
cannot represent an inference, since Turkish limits inference to the predication of
processes, and (5) is stative. On hearing an utterance such as (5), the listener
knows that the speaker is conveying hearsay (or perhaps surprise, as discussed
below). In similar fashion, sentences such as the following, because of their
aspectual-modal forms, cannot be interpreted as inferential:
(6) Her giin kos- uyor- mus.
every day run PRES. mis
'(It is said that) he jogs every day.'
162 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
(7) Kttçtik kôpeg- im- i çok sev- er- mi§- int.
little dog 1SG.POSS. ACC. much love HAB. ml$ 1SG.
'(It is said that) I used to love my little dog a lot.'
(8) Ev- i yok- mu§.
house POSS NEG.EXIS. ml§
'(It is said that) he doesn't have a house.'
Utterances of these sentences naturally are given a hearsay interpretation (or
may, in some contexts, be interpreted as pragmatic extensions, to which we now
turn).
PRAGMATIC EXTENSIONS
Beyond the traditionally described functions of -ml§ to convey inference and
hearsay, the form has several interesting pragmatic extensions. What these have
in common is that the speaker was, in some sense, not quite prepared for the
event in question. Our first example Ahmet gelmi§ 'Ahmet came', could also be
an expression of surprise, even if the speaker has had full sensory information of
Ahmet's arrival. For example, (1) could be uttered in a situation in which the
speaker hears someone approach from outside, opens the door, and sees Ahmet,
provided that Ahmet is a totally unexpected visitor. Normally, upon opening a
door to a visitor, one would say to the others in the room, Ahmet geldi, using the
past of direct experience. Surprise, however, is not normal, since the event is
somehow NOT CONSONANT WITH THE CURRENT STATE OF MIND OF THE SPEAKER.
Similarly, statives like (5) Iskender buradaymis 'Iskender is here', can be uttered
on directly experiencing Iskender's presence if the speaker had no mental prepa-
ration for that situation. In using -mis to convey surprise, the speaker seems to be
saying: 'I have just become aware of something for which I had no premonitory
consciousness'.
In some contexts, surprise itself can be pragmatically extended, expressing
degrees of "metaphorical" or "feigned surprise." When uttered with the appro-
priate intonation, in the appropriate context, an utterance like (6) ('He reportedly
jogs every day'), can convey not only hearsay, but doubting scorn when predi-
cated of a well-known exercise hater. Kononov (1956:232) has discussed such
uses as expressing 'an ironical attitude toward the carrying out of an action
("Ah, so you think we went!")'.
Curiously, in other contexts, an expression of surprise can function as a
compliment, conveying not scorn or irony, but a pleasant experience of sur-
passed expectations. For example, one can compliment a proud mother at the
conclusion of her daughter's piano recital by saying:
(9) Kiz- imz çok iyi piyano çal- lyor- mu$.
daughter 2PL.POSS. very good piano play PRES, m/j
'Your daugher plays [-ml§] the piano very well!'
Aksu-Koç and Slobin: Development and Use of Evidential in Turkish 163
Again, the speaker conveys a lack of preparation for the experienced event—in
this case, a lack of preparation for the high quality of the event.
The various pragmatic extensions of -ml§ to surprise, scorn, irony, and com-
pliments share a psychological feature with the inference and hearsay functions.
In every use of -mis, speakers present events as states of affairs which they were
not fully prepared to experience—situations on the fringe of consciousness,
learned of indirectly, or not immediately assimilable to the mental sets of the
moment. An apparent violation of the normal hearsay use of -mis clearly points
up the central role of mental preparedness in the use of this form. When the
speaker is well prepared for an event, even hearsay can be reported as direct
experience. For example, in 1974, during an early phase of investigating these
issues, events of the day increasingly prepared us to expect Richard Nixon's
resignation. When we finally learned of the resignation through the news me-
dia—certainly a channel of indirect experience—it was quite natural to report
the event in the past of direct experience, -dl: Nixon istifa etti 'Nixon resigned'.
During the same time period, the Turkish premier, Bulent Ecevit, suddenly and
unexpectedly resigned. There was no way to report this event except in the -mis
form, although the identical source of indirect evidence was involved: Ecevit
istifa etmis '(It is reported that) Ecevit resigned'. Again, the use of -mis implies
that the speaker's mind was unprepared for the event in question.
Consistent with this interpretation is the curious fact that the use of -ml§ to
convey hearsay is no longer obligatory as the event recedes in time from the
moment of speech. That which is reported as -ml§ today may be reported as -dl
next week or next month (the length of time varying with personal characteristics
of the speaker and general knowledge of the event). What is important commu-
nicatively in the use of -mis is an indication to the listener of the source of
currently relevant information. It is well known in psychology that information
that has been stored for some time becomes assimilated to one's own stock of
knowledge, while the source of information often fades from memory. Such
information becomes part of one's general world knowledge, and can no longer
be reported as something that has entered an unprepared mind. Thus as Ecevit's
resignation became familiar recent history, it came to be reported in the -dl form.
Indeed, all history is reported in this manner in Turkish.
UNPREPARED MINDS AND INDIRECT EXPERIENCE
The reader will note that we have moved from defining the -mis form as a marker
of 'indirect experience' to the use of terms such as 'outside of the speaker's
awareness', 'external to consciousness', and 'lack of preparation for the experi-
enced event'. Clearly, pragmatic extensions to surprise, irony, and compliments
go well beyond the feature of the speaker's direct or indirect experience of the
event. A general psychological or phenomenological stance towards experience
seems to underlie the entire range of functions of the two past tense forms in
164 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
Turkish, -dl and -ml§. The neutral expectation, encoded by -dl, is that experi-
enced events can be assimilated to a network of existing assumptions and expec-
tations. Normal experience is characterized by premonitory consciousness of the
contents of coming moments. We refer to this neutral, background mental set as
a 'prepared mind'. An observed process arouses premonitory consciousness of
its consequences, and can later be encoded in the past of direct experience, -dl.
Hearsay assimilable to a prepared mind, as in the case of Nixon's resignation, is
not really hearsay, because the recipient has had premonitory consciousness of
the state of affairs leading up to the reported event. Such reports are conveyed as
'direct experience'.
When a mind is unprepared, however, events cannot be assimilated at once.
The speaker stands back, saying, in effect, by use of the -ml$ form: 'It seems that
I am experiencing such-and-such' or 'It seems that such-and-such must have
taken place'. An unprepared mind has not had normal premonitory con-
sciousness of the event in question. The event has become apparent through its
consequences, or through verbal report; or the experienced event is radically
different from the consciousness that preceded the experience. The speaker feels
distanced from the situation he or she is describing. Events which enter un-
prepared minds are encoded by -ml§.
In some psychological sense, there are classes of events for which one can
never be quite prepared, events which are always somehow distant from one's
normal mental set. These are events which partake of a quality of unreality or
otherworldliness, and they are the special domain of -ml§ in Turkish. Thus, -ml§
is always used in such narratives as myths, folktales, and fairy tales; and it is the
form used for recounting those parts of dreams that seem most alien to everyday
experience. In broadest terms, then, we may summarize by stating that the -dl
form represents the realities of moment-to-moment, consciously involved experi-
ence, while the -ml§ form represents intrusions into consciousness from psycho-
logically more distant, less directly apprehended worlds of thought and experi-
ence. Both the historical and ontogenetic courses of development of the uses of
-mlg seem to reflect an increasing distancing from the encoding of ongoing,
immediately apprehended experience.
A BRIEF HISTORICAL NOTE
Both historically (Grunina 1976) and ontogenetically (Aksu 1978), there is evi-
dence that inferential forms develop from forms expressing the perfect. As
Comrie has pointed out (1976:110): "the semantic similarity . . . between per-
fect and inferential lies in the fact that both categories present an event not in
itself, but via its results." A crucial conceptual bridge between perfect and
inferential thus can be found in an attention to resultant states, and it is no
accident that -ml§ also functions to form stative participles derived from process
verbs. In this adjectival function the element of indirect experience is not pre-
sent. Compare, for example, 10 and 11:
Aksu-Koç and Slobin: Development and Use of Evidential in Turkish 165
(10) Çiçek ku.ru- mus.
flower dry mis
'The flower dried (apparently, reportedly).'
(11) kuru- mus çiçek
dry mis flower
'dried flower'/'flower which has become dry'
The participial form in (11) can only be used to encode resultant states—that is,
it focuses on an end state achieved by a patient. (See Slobin and Aksu 1982 for
details.) It is thus completive in meaning, embracing both process and resultant
state in its scope. The participle may well have provided the historical point of
departure for the inferential past tense form, which goes from resultant state to
the inference of antecedent process. Both the participial and past tense functions
of -mis, however, are present in writing on the earliest monuments of the eighth
century A.D. (Tekin 1968). It has been suggested by some scholars (e.g.
Baskakov 1971) that the participial function was prior, having been extended to
indicate past tense because of its focus on both process and end state. In histor-
ically attested time, -mis has moved from an early period of functioning as a
perfect, to later take on the modal distinctions described above, while the range
of the -dl past tense became limited to the domain of direct experience (Grunina
1976, described for Turkish and related forms in other Western Turkic lan-
guages). The -mis form thus seems to have moved from participle, through
perfect, to past tense—presumably facilitated by the fact that observed end states
result from past processes. The ultimate movement of the form to the modality of
indirect experience was probably facilitated by (a) the cognitive fact that nonwit-
nessed processes can be inferred from observation of resultant states, and (b) the
linguistic fact that the verbal system already provided a potentially contrasting
past tense form (-dl) that was neutral in regard to source of experience.
ONTOGENETIC PARALLELS
What we take to be the historical sequence bears striking similarity to the con-
temporary Turkish child's acquisition of the semantic functions of the -mis
particle (Aksu 1978; Aksu-Koç and Slobin 1985). The particle emerges around
the age of two, several months later than the -dl particle. At first, -dl is used
simply to comment on immediately preceding changes of state with perceptible
results, without regard to the child's direct or indirect experience of the process
in question. The form is hardly a past tense, but more a sort of completive-
resultant aspect. When -mis emerges, it is at first limited to picture descriptions
and story telling, and to the encoding of a small range of states (e.g. locative
states and physical experiential states such as hunger and pain). Interestingly,
adult utterances in the -ml§ mode are imitated only when they occur with stative
verbs, being replaced by -dl in children's imitations when they occur with
process verbs. Thus, in the child's system, the -dl and -mis inflections at first
166 Evidentialiry Elsewhere in the World
serve to indicate different types of events in the here-and-now—dynamic and
static, respectively. Neither form serves to order events in time in relation to the
moment of speech.
After this early period, -dl is extended from its completive aspectual use to a
general past tense function. At the same time, -ml§ begins to be used as a past
tense with change of state verbs in situations where an object is perceived in a
state or location different from its canonical state, although the child has not
perceived the preceding process. Thus, in the earliest inferential uses of -ml§, a
resultant state serves as perceptible evidence for the inference of a precipitating
event in the past. The cognitive process underlying the acquisition of the two past
tense inflections is the same, namely that of coordinating a present perceived
state with a past process. As Piaget has pointed out (1927 [1969:284]), the very
young child's notion of temporality is characterized by "living purely in the
present and assessing the past exclusively by its results." The observed time lag
in the order of emergence of the two forms in Turkish child speech is presumably
due to the further complexity of making an inference (-ml$) as compared to
simply accessing an experienced event from memory (-dl).
By age three or so, the two verb particles have become general past tense
forms, dividing up the field in terms of witnessed and nonwitnessed modalities.
The -ml§ form comes to be used to encode inferred past events and to differenti-
ate pretense from "real" activity, but has not yet taken on the hearsay and
pragmatic extensions described above. It may well be that, in the child's world,
adult utterances have the force of direct experience, and do not partake of the
psychological distancing from events inherent in the -ml§ form. One can also
argue that, on the cognitive level, the hearsay function is more complex than the
inferential, since it involves the use of another person's utterance, rather than
one's own experience, as evidence for one's assertion. In any case, the hearsay
function is not primary in development.
Experimental investigation also suggests that children gradually extend the
definition of events qualifying as "nonwitnessed" and "indirectly experi-
enced." Aksu (1978) presented children with pictured sequences of events,
eliciting judgments as to which characters would be in a position to report events
in the evidential modality. The characters varied in terms of direct experience of
the events in question. It was found that young children express the belief that
one must directly experience or perceive an event in order to be able to talk about
it at all. Older children recognize the relevance of the physical results of a past
event as an indirect source of information and thus as the basis for an assertion
about the event. Only after the age of four do they accept the legitimacy of
assertions made on the basis of other people's reports.
Thus, the factors we have considered in discussing the psychological bases of
adult usage of Turkish evidentials—psychological distance or degree of exter-
nality of an event from consciousness—seem to play a role in children's devel-
oping understanding about who can talk about what and in what way. While the
Aksu-Koç and Slobin: Development and Use of Evidentials in Turkish 167
historical evidence is not certain, it is at least clear on ontogenetic grounds that:
(a) perception of results leads to inferences about their antecedents; (b) linguistic
forms describing end states can evolve into past tense forms; (c) the marking of
indirect experience on the basis of physical evidence of results antedates the
marking of indirect experience on the basis of hearsay. Although we have not
carried out detailed investigation of children's use of the pragmatic extensions of
-ml§ for expressions of surprise, scorn, irony, and compliments, it is our impres­
sion that these functions develop considerably later than the inference and hear­
say functions described above.
To conclude, we suggest that every language embodies an implicit theory of
conscious experience, such as the one we have proposed for Turkish. Languages
differ in the particular distinctions which come to form the habitual background
of grammatical choice. The Turkish speaker must implicitly take account of the
degree to which his or her mind has been prepared to assimilate a given event
prior to forming an utterance about that event. The Turkish child must implicitly
elaborate the phenomenological theory underlying the language. Finally, the
researcher seeking universals must determine the range and variability of such
theories, along with investigating their acquisition and use.
REFERENCES
Aksu, Ayhan A. 1978. Aspect and modality in the child's acquisition of the Turkish past tense.
Berkeley: University of California dissertation.
Aksu-Koç, Ayhan A., and Dan I. Slobin. 1985. Acquisition of Turkish. The crosshnguistic study of
language acquisition, ed. by Dan I. Slobin. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Baskakov, N. A. 1971. O kategorijax naklonenija i vremeni v tjurkski jazykax, 71-80. Moscow:
Nauka.
Comrie, Bernard. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Grunina, E. A. 1976. K istorii semantičeskogo razvitija perfekta -miš. Sovetskaja tjurkologija
7(1).12-26.
Kononov, A. N. 1956. Grammatika sovremennogo tureckogo literaturnogo jazyka. Leningrad:
Izdatel'stvo Akademii Nauk SSSR.
Piaget, Jean. 1927. Le développement de la notion de temps chez l'enfant. Paris: Presses Univer­
sitaires de France. (1969. The child's conception of time, trans, by A. J. Pomerans. New
York: Routledge and Kegan Paul.)
Slobin, Dan I., and Ayhan A. Aksu. 1982. Tense, aspect, modality and more in Turkish evidentials.
Tense-aspect: Between semantics and pragmatics, ed. by Paul Hopper. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Tekin, Talât. 1968. A grammar of Orkhon Turkic. Bloomington: Indiana University Publications
(Ural and Altaic Series Vol. 69).
TEN
Evidentiality in the Balkans:
Bulgarian, Macedonian,
and Albanian *
Victor A. Friedman
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
INTRODUCTION
Jakobson (1957:4) uses the term EVIDENTIAL as a tentative label for a verbal
category which indicates the source of the information on which the speaker's
statement is based. He offers a distinction between 'direct narration' and 'indi­
rect narration' in Bulgarian (prjako izkazvane and preizkazvane, cf. Andrejčin
1944:§281-285) as his chief example and also refers to a 'vouched for' vs
'distanced' distinction in Macedonian (cf. Lunt 1952:93). Similar accounts of
Bulgarian are to be found in various survey works, e.g. those of Comrie
(1976:108-110), Haarman (1970:33-35), and Serebrennikov (1974:208), and
these follow descriptions in traditional grammars. All these works state or imply
that Bulgarian (with Jakobson including Macedonian) possesses a separate set of
forms which necessarily denote that the speaker is basing the statement on
reported information. When the facts of these languages are examined in greater
detail, however, it can be seen that this picture is greatly oversimplified and not,
strictly speaking, accurate.
It will be shown that evidentiality, which in the languages discussed here
actually involves the speaker's ATTITUDE toward the information—source being
* I wish to thank the National Endowment for the Humanities for a Category A grant for the year
1980-81 and the American Philosophical Society for a grant from the Penrose Fund for Summer
1979 which allowed me to conduct much of the research on which this article is based. I also wish to
thank the Center for Bulgaristics of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Macedonian Academy of
Arts and Sciences, the Secretariat of Information of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, and both
the Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Secretariat of Information of the Socialist Autonomous
Region of Kosovo for providing me with materials which were essential to my research.
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 169
an implication derived from that attitude—is the chief contextual variant mean-
ing (HAUPTBEDEUTUNG) in the Balkan Slavic (i.e. Bulgarian and Macedonian)
forms which are usually cited as exemplary, namely the descendants of the
Common Slavic perfect. These forms still retain their older nonevidential perfect
meanings and have developed simple preterite uses as well; thus, evidentiality
cannot be said to function as the invariant meaning (GESAMTBEDEUTUNG) in
these forms. This distinction between Hauptbedeutung and Gesamtbedeutung is
crucial in understanding the structure of the Balkan Slavic (or any language's)
verbal system. Although the forms in question can be used evidentially and often
are, the fact that this is not always the case means that evidentiality is not
inherent in these forms but results from a combination of whatever meaning is
always present when the form is used (which meaning must then be sought) and
the surrounding context. These forms are thus not special evidential forms but
rather forms contextually capable of expressing evidentiality. In pluperfect forms
which developed later, during or after the rise of evidentiality, it appears that an
evidential meaning can be treated as invariant, though it need not be treated as a
separate grammatical category.
This is to say that in the languages under discussion, evidentiality does not
constitute a generic grammatical category on a level with, for example, mood,
tense or aspect. Rather, evidentiality is a meaning, whether contextual or invar-
iant, expressed by the generic grammatical category which indicates the speak-
er's attitude toward the narrated event. In Jakobsonian and traditional terms this
category is labeled MOOD. Aronson (1977:13-15), however, has argued con-
vincingly that Jakobson's (1957) definitions of mood and status be reversed, in
which case the category in question should be labeled STATUS. The question of
the precise label for the generic category to which evidentiality belongs, how-
ever, is not at issue here. The investigation of such a question is the task of a
separate study of generic grammatical categories. The purpose of this article is to
describe how evidentiality is expressed and how these expressions developed in
the languages under consideration.
The term EVIDENTIALITY will be used in the paper as a convenient label for the
meanings to be discussed, but with the understanding that it is not to be taken as
literally descriptive. Comparable but nonetheless strikingly different develop-
ments in Albanian, where the inverted perfect developed into a separate set of
paradigms with a Gesamtbedeutung very much like the Hauptbedeutung of the
Balkan Slavic descendents of the Common Slavic perfect, will also be discussed
in view of the light they shed on the synchronic and diachronic facts of Balkan
evidentiality.1
Table 1 illustrates the maximum number of past tense indicative paradigms
1
Unless otherwise specified, this article will discuss the modern literary forms of these lan-
guages, i.e. the speech and writing of educated native speakers since the appropriate dates of
codification. All examples whose sources are not specified were checked with native speakers.
Table 1. 1SG and 3SG of "Do" in Bulgarian and Macedonian
Bulgarian
Definite Past Indefinite Past 'Reported'
AORIST
IMPERFECT
pravix
pravi
pravex
praveše
sum pravil
e pravil
Isûm pravell
1 e pravell
sum pravil
pravil
sum pravel
pravel
PLUPERFECT
(aorist)
PLUPERFECT
(imperfect)
bjax pravil
beše pravil
(bjax pravel)
(beše pravel)
[sum bil pravil]
[ e bil pravil]
(sum bil pravel)
( e bil pravel)
sum bil pravil
bil pravil
siim bil pravel
bil pravel
Macedonian
Definite Past Indefinite Past Pluperfect
AORIST
IMPERFECT
praviv
pravi
pravev
praveše
sum pravil
pravil
sum pravel
pravel
bev pravil
beše pravil
bev pravel
beše pravel
PLUPERFECT imav praveno
imaše praveno
sum imal praveno
imal praveno
{beše sum/bev imal praveno}
{ beše imal praveno}
KPV
Key
Slashes: Forms excluded from the most conservative norm but now generally recognized as part
of the literary language.
Square brackets: Forms not mentioned in the grammars but discussed in linguistic literature with
examples.
Parentheses: Forms not mentioned in the grammars or linguistic literature but acceptable to some
educated speakers and occurring in dialects.
Braces: Forms which either are not truly paradigmatic or do not occur in the literary language
although they are mentioned in grammars and handbooks.
which are not totally homonymous in Bulgarian and Macedonian.2
The
aorist/imperfect opposition is an aspectual one similar to but clearly distinct from
perfective/imperfective, and will not be relevant to this discussion.3
The terms
DEFINITE PAST and INDEFINITE PAST (Macedonian minato opredeleno, minato
2
Macedonian also possesses a present perfect of the type imam praveno, ima praveno which
refers to the present results of past actions. For the purposes of this article, i.e. in terms of eviden-
tiality, these forms are neutral and pattern like the unmarked present tense forms (cf. Friedman
1977:82-99), and so they will not be considered.
3
At one time it was claimed that the imperfect /-participle could only occur in evidential forms
(cf. Andrejčin 1944:§295). This was an artificial distinction and was not even observed by those who
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 171
neopredeleno, Bulgarian minalo opredeleno, minalo neopredeleno) are tradi-
tionally applied to the forms above the dashed lines. Here the label will be used
for the entire column. While 'definiteness' and 'indefiniteness' cannot be taken
as the basic meanings of these forms, as will be seen below, the terms will be
used here because they are convenient, well established, and widely recognized
labels for the paradigmatic sets to which they are applied.
The following explanations of the forms in Table 1 are given to orient the
reader unfamiliar with Slavic languages. The root which carries the meaning 'do'
is prav-; the stem vowels -i- and -e- indicate aorist and imperfect aspect, respec-
tively (in this conjugation). The form in -/ is descended from a Common Slavic
resultative participle and can still be used participially in Bulgarian but not in
Macedonian, where it can only be used in the formation of compound tenses.
The auxiliaries sùmlsum and e are the first and third persons of the present tense
of 'be'; bjax/bev and beše are the definite past and sum/sum bil and (e) bil are the
indefinite past forms of the same persons of the verb.4
Macedonian also has
grammaticalized (paradigmatic) pluperfects using the definite and indefinite
pasts of ima 'have' and the neuter form of the verbal adjective in -n-, which is
descended from the Common Slavic past passive participle.5
These forms can be
translated literally by the English 'had done'.
BALKAN SLAVIC DEFINITE PAST
The definite past in both Macedonian and Bulgarian specifies the speaker's
personal confirmation of the truth of the statement. As the source of this convic-
tion is generally the speaker's direct experience of the event, the forms are
frequently described as marked for witnessing, but numerous examples show that
this definition is too narrow (see, e.g. Aronson 1967:87; Friedman 1977:40).
Thus, for example, a Bulgarian colleague of mine, discussing which of his
colleagues had attended a conference in America which he had not been able to
attend, said of one of them:
(1) Beše tamo.
'(She) was there.'
prescribed it (see Aronson 1967:91 n.12). It is now generally recognized that the imperfect l-
participle has at least some of the same nonevidential uses as the aorist /-participle (see, e.g. Penčev
1967; Stankov 1967).
4
The second person either is identical to the third person or patterns like the first person, and the
plural patterns like the singular, so these forms have been omitted to save space and increase ease of
comparison.
5
Bulgarian has similar constructions but they are considered dialectal or marginal, and they are
nonparadigmatic (see Georgiev 1957; Teodorov-Balan 1957). In the Bulgarian constructions the
subject must be animate and the participle usually agrees with the direct object, and cannot be formed
from intransitive verbs; it is still a true past passive participle (see Penčev 1968; V. Kostov
1972:378). It should be observed for the sake of completeness that this adjective or participle is
occasionally formed using -t- instead of -«-; the rules are of no concern to this article.
172 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
This despite the fact that his only source of information was a report. Consider
also the following Macedonian sentence, based on, but not translated from, the
Watergate Tapes (p. 188), which appeared in the daily newspaper Nova
Makedonija (June 19, 1974, p. 5). Ehrlichman is suggesting what Nixon could
say to clean out the 'cancer growing about the Presidency':
(2) No podočna se slučija raboti za koi ne znaev.
but later happened things about which not (I) knew
'But later things happened that I didn't know about.'
The definite past verb se slučija refers to actions which the President is specifi­
cally denying having known about, much less having seen, at the time they
occurred, but whose actual occurrence he must confirm. Hence, the term 'wit­
nessed' does not capture the meaning of these forms.
The definite past can also be used, in both Macedonian and Bulgarian, in
sentences which do not actually refer to a definite past time, as in the following
Macedonian example:
(3) Od najstarite vreminja lugeto veruvaa deka
From oldest times the-people believed (past def.) that
mesčina vlijae vrz životot na zemjata.
moon influences on the-life on the-earth
{Nova Makedonija, November 12, 1972).
'Since most ancient times people have believed that the moon influences life
on earth.'
Sentences of the type Ne znaja kogatolkato (Bulgarian) /Ne znam kogalkako
(Macedonian) 'I don't know when/how' with a subordinated clause in the defi­
nite past also show that 'definiteness', while frequently present as a contextual
variant meaning, cannot be taken as the invariant meaning of these forms (cf.
Friedman 1977:38-39, 148-149). The one restriction on the occurrence of the
definite past is in subordination to clauses which directly contradict the meaning
of personal confirmation, as in the following example:
(4) *Toj ne veruva deka taa go napravi toa. (Macedonian)
*Toj ne vjarva če tja napravi tova. (Bulgarian)
he not believe that she it did it
*'He doesn't believe that she did it.'
This sentence is ordinarily understood by native speakers as ungrammatical due
to the logical impossibility of both disbelieving and confirming something at the
same time. The one possible grammatical reading of (4) is if the speaker is
actually confirming that she did it despite his disbelief. Similarly, if the subject
of the main clause is changed to the first person—Jas ne veruvanlAz ne vjar-
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 173
vam—the sentence is acceptable only if the speaker actually does believe that she
did it, but is displaying extreme surprise at this fact by a nonliteral expression of
disbelief, much as in the English / can't believe she really did it.
The same type of restrictions apply to the Bulgarian definite pluperfect, i.e.
the one contextual restriction is that of anticonfirmation:
(5) Kaza, če bjaxa xodili na plaž. (Conversation)
(he) said that (they) were gone to beach
He said that they had gone to the beach.'
(6) *lvan me kaza, če Petur beše dosùl, no az
Ivan to-me said that Peter was come but I
ne vjarvam (Stankov 1967:342).
not believe
* 'Ivan told me that Peter arrived, but I don't believe it.'
Similar restrictions also apply to the Macedonian definite pluperfect, but with an
additional sharpening of the confirmative/nonconfirmative opposition from pri-
vative to equipollent, and with an unmarked form in between. There also appears
to be some sharpening of the opposition in Bulgarian, but this will become
clearer after consideration of the indefinite pasts. The main point here is that
'confirmative' functions as the Gesamtbedeutung of the definite past forms.
MACEDONIAN INDEFINITE PAST
Due to questions of auxiliary usage, the Macedonian and Bulgarian indefinite
pasts will be examined separately. In Macedonian, this form, which is descended
from the Common Slavic perfect, can still be used as a perfect, as an unmarked
or indefinite past, and also in definite past contexts. As it is impossible to assign
a single meaning which is present in all uses of the indefinite past, i.e. as there is
no specific type of restriction on its occurrence as there is for the definite past, it
must be treated as unmarked with respect to the definite past. This can be seen
from the following examples:
(6) Dosta sme rabotele. (Conversation)
enough (we) are worked
'We've worked enough.' (One retired man commenting to another on their
right to a pension)
(7) Tatko mi bil mnogu meraklija za cvek'a. (Conversation)
father to-me was very fond for flowers
'My father was very fond of flowers.'
(8) Sum stanal nokeska vo eden. (Koneski 1967:462)
(I) am got up last night at one
'I got up at one this morning.'
174 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
Despite the fact that the indefinite past has these nonevidential uses, however,
it will ordinarily be assumed that the speaker is using this form in order to avoid
personal confirmation of the information, e.g. due to its being based on a report,
in the absence of contextual specification to the contrary. Thus, for example, if
the dative-possessive pronoun mi 'my' were changed to mu 'his' in example (7),
it would normally be assumed that the speaker was basing the statement on
indirect information, since there would be nothing in the context such as a first
person reference to indicate otherwise.
The opposition between the nonpluperfect definite and indefinite pasts in
Macedonian can be explained in the following manner. The definite past is
marked for the speaker's confirmation of the information, as indicated by the fact
that the one type of context in which a definite past cannot occur is one which
specifically excludes the possibility of such confirmation (4-5). The indefinite
past cannot be restricted to a single invariant meaning because it has retained its
old perfect uses (6) while at the same time it has developed into an unmarked past
(7-8; as in the other Slavic languages, this is indicated by its use with definite
past time adverbs and in situations not focusing on present results). Concur-
rently the indefinite past has also developed a chief contextual variant meaning of
nonconfirmativity, reportedness, or evidentiality, due to its contrast with the
markedly confirmative definite past.6
Thus despite the fact that the indefinite
past is statistically less frequent than the definite past, it is unmarked because it is
also semantically less restricted.7
BULGARIAN INDEFINITE PAST
The facts of Bulgarian are essentially the same as those of Macedonian, with one
difference: the auxiliary is always absent from the third person of the literary
6
It should be noted that even the meaning 'distanced' suggested by Lunt (1952:92; cf. also Aksu
and Slobin 1981 on Turkish) cannot cover all the uses of the Macedonian indefinite past. The
indefinite past in the following sentence specifically contradicts such a meaning:
(i) Jas sum go skršil šišeto namerno vo dva saatot.
1 am it broke the-bottle purposefully at two the-hour
'I broke the bottle on purpose at two o'clock. '
See Friedman (1977:36-37) for further discussion of this point.
7
Some scholars have proposed that the Macedonian verbal system possesses two totally hom-
onymous sets of forms', one nonevidential indefinite past and the other markedly evidential or
reported. From a diachronic viewpoint it is clear that additional meanings have accrued to a single
form, the indefinite past, and that these meanings resulted from or were at least influenced by the
actual shift of meaning in the definite past to marked confirmativity. Also, given the fact that the
meaning of the indefinite past can only be determined from the context in which it is used, an analysis
relying on total homonymy must often employ arbitrary decisions in order to determine which
'paradigm' a given form represents. One could even propose defining as many paradigms as there are
contexts. In view of all this, I consider the indefinite past to be a single form with several meanings or
uses.
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 175
Macedonian indefinite past (as it is in the west-central dialects on which the
literary language is primarily based), but in literary Bulgarian (as in some Bul­
garian and Macedonian dialects), it is possible for the third person auxiliary to be
present or absent. Due to this alternation, all traditional Bulgarian grammars and
linguistic studies published in the last four decades have set up two sets of
paradigms which are always homonymous in the first two persons—one with
and one without the auxiliary in the third person. The form with the auxiliary,
like the Macedonian indefinite past, can be used in all types of contexts and is
treated as unmarked (cf. Aronson 1967:89-92). The form without the auxiliary,
however, is treated as marked for reportedness, and it is this form which is cited
by Jakobson (1957:4) as marked for evidentiality.
As was indicated at the beginning of this chapter, if an invariant meaning is
assigned to a given form and the form is said to be marked for a certain gram­
matical category, then that meaning must be present in every occurrence of the
form in question. However, such is not always the case in the Bulgarian third
person indefinite past without an auxiliary, which is said to be marked for
reportedness. This can be seen from the following examples, which use the
indefinite past without auxiliary but do not carry the meaning of reportedness:
(9) Sto na sto bili_ pokaneni. (Conversation)
100% (they) were invited
'Absolutely, they were invited.'
(10) Togava čak se ogledaxme i vidjaxme, ce sestra
then just (we) looked around and saw that sister
mu izbjagala. (Dejanova 1970:847)
to-him ran away
'Just then we looked around and saw that his sister had run away.'
(11) . . . podigna malko oči— / v ottatušnija sokak, i v
(he) raised a little eyes and in the-next street and in
po-ottatušnija . . . plûznali bežanici kato mravunjak.
the-more-next swarmed refugees like anthill
'He looked up a little (and saw that) both in the next street and the one after
that refugees swarmed like (ants on) an anthill.'
(Dejanova 1970:847).
Example (9) requires a clarifying context: it was uttered by a colleague of mine in
Sofia during the course of a discussion as to whether a certain delegation had
been invited to a congress. My colleague was convinced that they had been
invited, although his conviction was not based on any kind of direct or indirect
evidence, i.e. the statement was not based on a report or even a deduction, but
only on the speaker's assumptions and expectations regarding the normal con-
duct of such matters. It is clear from their own contexts that (10) and (11) also do
not involve reported actions.
176 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
The data from a recent study by Roth (1979) can be added to these examples.
Among other things, this study contains fourteen pages of transcribed narratives
based on reported information which document what I myself have observed in
Sofia and elsewhere in Bulgaria: different speakers will omit or include the third
person auxiliary to varying degrees, but reportedness (or any other form of
evidentiality) cannot be said to function as the determining factor. Thus, in
Roth's texts the speakers switch back and forth between forms with and without
the auxiliary in the same narrative, based on the same information, as in the
following examples:8
(12) / se sùbrali momčeta pokraj njakakûv ogùn i
and gathered lads by some kind of fire and
sa započvali razni istorii za samodivi i za
(they) are began various stories about fairies and about
takiva. (Roth 1979:177)
such
'And the lads gathered around a fire and began stories about fairies and the
like.'
(13) Toj si ja e viždal tarn i nakraja se zapoznali
he to-himself her is saw there and in-the-end (they) met
na ski —bili_ sa na ski. (Roth 1979:179)
on ski (they) were on ski
'He saw her there and finally they met one another skiing—they were on a
ski trip.'
(14) Tja stojala po cjal den na izložbata —i sled
she stood for whole day at the-exhibition and after
tova večer se e razxoïdala. (Roth 1979:180)
that evening (she) is strolled
'She would stand (on duty) at the exhibition all day, and in the evenings she
would go out for a walk.'
In each of these examples forms with and without the auxiliary are used for
events which are identical in terms of evidentiality.
On the basis of data such as these, supported by the historical and dialec-
tological facts given immediately below, I would propose that omission of the
auxiliary in the third person of the Bulgarian indefinite past is not the marker of a
separate evidential paradigm but rather part of the process of total auxiliary loss
in the third person. This process is well attested in numerous Slavic languages
and dialects (e.g. Russian, where the auxiliary was lost in all three persons,
8
For those unfamiliar with Bulgarian, it should be noted that se is an enclitic marker of intran-
sitivity (as it is in Macedonian) and does not affect the occurrence of the auxiliary. The 3PL.auxiliary
of the indefinite past is sa.
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 177
beginning with the third [Buslaev 1959:363]; and the Macedonian dialect of
Kumanovo, about 50 kilometers from the Bulgarian border, where the third
person auxiliary is entirely facultative [Vidoeski 1962:218, 234]). The question
can be raised as to whether auxiliary omission in Bulgarian can be treated as
semantically distinctive in any systematic fashion such as, for example, signaling
a difference between backgrounding and foregrounding or between scene-set-
ting or stative events and plot-advancing actions. The data do not appear to
support such a distinction, but the question of the semantics and degree of
systematicity of third person auxiliary loss in Bulgarian is in need of a special
study which has yet to be undertaken. It is clear, however, that the traditional
explanation based on evidentiality is contradicted by the data presented here.9
For the purposes of this article, two observations are sufficient: (a) omission of
the auxiliary in the third person of the Bulgarian indefinite past is a syntactic
phenomenon which does not justify the establishment of independent paradigms:
(b) whatever the semantic value or conditioning contexts of auxiliary omission, if
any, it cannot be treated as a signal of marking for evidentiality.10
Thus the
opposition between the nonpluperfect definite and indefinite pasts in Bulgarian is
of essentially the same type as in Macedonian; the definite past is marked for
confirmativity while the indefinite past, with or without its auxiliary in the third
person, is unmarked and therefore implies, but does not specify, nonconfirmati-
vity.
BALKAN SLAVIC PLUPERFECTS
The situation in the pluperfects seems to involve the sharpening of the privative
confirmative/nonconfirmative opposition to equipollent oppositions. Of the
forms labeled pluperfect in Table 1, only those using the definite past of 'be' and
the aorist /-participle (3SG beše pravil) were inherited from the older system; the
others are all later developments. Aside from the spread of the aorist/imperfect
aspectual opposition, which need not concern us here, Macedonian has two new
pluperfects using the definite and indefinite pasts of 'have' (3SG imaše praveno,
imal praveno) while Bulgarian has new pluperfects using the indefinite past of
'be' with and without its own auxiliary (3SG e bil pravil, bil pravil).
The equipollent sharpening of the confirmative/nonconfirmative opposition in
the pluperfects results in a set of restrictions which are truly evidential in
9
As was observed in note 1, the term 'literary language' is used here to refer to actual usage
rather than the prescriptions of standard grammars. If a literary language is defined as being whatever
the standard grammars say it is, then any counterexamples to those prescriptions are, by definition,
merely mistakes.
10
Cf. Aronson (1967:93, especially n. 14) on the neutralization of evidentiality in Bulgarian.
The type of analysis which employs a theory of total homonymy such as that mentioned in note 7 with
regard to Macedonian has been carried even further in most Bulgarian grammars and other works, but
essentially the same arguments apply against it.
178 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
nature—witnessed/nonwitnessed in Macedonian and confirmative/nonwitnessed
in Bulgarian. Thus in Macedonian the definite pluperfect cannot be subordinated
to verbs of reporting, while the indefinite pluperfect cannot be subordinated to
verbs of witnessing and direct perception but can only be used for reports and,
rarely, deductions and suppositions. The third type of pluperfect, the original one
(3SG beše pravil), is neutral with respect to these distinctions in the speech of
most younger and some older speakers.11
So, for example, sentences (15) and
(16) are unacceptable because they violate these restrictions, while sentences of
the type illustrated by (6), mutatis mutandis, are acceptable (see also example ii,
note 11):
(15) *Toj reče deka tie ja imaa svršeno rabotata. (definite
he said that they it had finished the-job pluperfect)
* 'He said that they had finished the job.'
(16) *Jas vidov kakoldeka toj go imal napraveno toa. (indefinite
I saw how/that he it had done that pluperfect)
* 'I saw how/that he had done it.'
In Bulgarian the sharpening of these distinctions is not as rigid, insofar as the
definite pluperfect (which in Bulgarian is the inherited form) can be used for
reported actions just as the definite past can (example 5). The key issue here is
the significance of the omission of the present auxiliary in the third person
indefinite pluperfect. It appears that while the form with the present auxiliary is
neutral, that without the present auxiliary may actually be limited to reports,
11
The Macedonian pluperfect with the definite past of 'be' (3SG beSe) is felt by some older
speakers to have the same restrictions as that with the definite past of 'have' (3SG imaSe) due to the
fact that both use definite past auxiliaries. Younger speakers and other older speakers, however, will
accept sentences such as the following:
(ii) Ivan rele deka tie ja bea svršile rabotata pred da stasav
Ivan said that they it were finished the-job before that arrived
jas, no ne veruvam vo toa.
I but not believe in that
'Ivan said that they had finished the job before I arrived, but I don't believe it.'
The picture is further complicated by the fact that the forms using 'have' are not native to the dialects
spoken east and north of the river Vardar, which runs from northwest to southeast roughly through
the middle of Macedonia, while forms with the /-participle become increasingly rare as one moves
southwest of the Vardar and eventually disappear altogether in southwestern Aegean (Greek) Mac­
edonia. Since the establishment of the literary language in 1944, the spread of education has been
leveling these dialectal distinctions within Yugoslavia, but they still influence usage and judgments,
especially in older speakers. In terms of tense form usage, the literary language follows the dialect of
the west-central town of Prilep most closely, but even here speakers differ in their judgments on the
acceptability of sentences such as (ii).
Friedman: Evidentiality in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 179
deductions, statements of doubt and disbelief, etc. This phenomenon can be
analyzed as a stricter semantic-syntactic conditioning of auxiliary loss, however,
rather than as the basis for a separate paradigm.
The question of syntactic rules vs. grammatical categories is particularly
vexed in instances such as Bulgarian auxiliary loss. The fact that evidentiality
does seem to serve as a conditioning factor for auxiliary loss in the pluperfects
but clearly cannot do so in the nonpluperfect indefinite pasts suggests that the
difference between rule conditions and grammatical categories is one of degree
rather than kind.12
A more detailed study of conditioning factors must be con-
ducted, however, before any definite conclusions can be reached in this area.
DIACHRONIC EXPLANATION
The Balkan Slavic synchronic situation which has been described here—a
marked confirmative definite past, an unmarked indefinite past whose
Hauptbedeutung is nonconfirmative, and a series of pluperfects in which this
nonconfirmative Hauptbedeutung becomes a type of Gesamtbedeutung in op-
position to marked confirmative and unmarked forms—has two possible dia-
chronic explanations, which are themselves not mutually exclusive. The first
possibility is that as the semantic field of the definite past became restricted to
contexts in which the speaker personally confirmed the information being con-
veyed, the semantic field of the old perfect expanded to include nonconfirmed,
nonperfect contexts. The second possibility is that the current situation resulted
from the fact that the perfect, due to its indefiniteness and its focus on the results
of a past action rather than on the past action itself, has a natural tendency to be
used for conveying reported and other nonwitnessed information (Lohmann
1937:43); it also has a tendency to develop into an unmarked past, as it did in all
the other Slavic languages, where it has completely replaced the synthetic (defi-
nite) pasts (except in Lusatian and some varieties of Serbo-Croatian, where the
synthetic pasts survive as marked forms).
Regardless of whether one or both of these explanations apply to the non-
pluperfect developments, it is clear that the pluperfect forms have become para-
digmatically more complex since the dissolution of Common Slavic (during the
same period in which the indefinite past developed its evidential Hauptbedeu-
tung) and have sharpened the confirmative/nonconfirmative opposition from
privative to equipollent. Those pluperfects which arose during the period when
the meanings associated with evidentiality also developed have more rigid mark-
ing restrictions than earlier pluperfects. Thus the newer and more highly marked
forms reflect a sharpened, more extreme semantic-syntactic development than
the older, less marked forms.
2
Suggested to me by Johanna Nichols (personal communication).
780 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
Table 2. 1SG Indicative of 'Have' in Albanian3
Nonadmirative Admirative
Present kam paskam
Perfect kam pasur paskam pasur
Imperfect kisha paské'sha
Pluperfect (impf.) kisha pasur paskësha pasur
Aorist pata —
2nd Pluperfect (aor.) pata pasur —
"Excluded from this table are the compound pasts using the Geg short participle as these are
marginal in the modern literary language.
THE ALBANIAN ADMIRATIVE
The Albanian verbal system provides an instructive contrast to Balkan Slavic in
its treatment of evidentiality. Albanian possesses two series of indicative tense
forms, traditionally labeled mënyrë dëftore 'indicative mood' and mënyrë hab-
itore 'admirative mood', which will be referred to by the labels NONADMIRATIVE
and ADMIRATIVE.13
Historically, the admirative is derived from an inverted
perfect with a truncated participle (Demiraj 1971:32), as can be seen in Table 2,
which gives the Isg of kam 'have' in its nonadmirative and admirative indicative
forms by way of illustration.
Although the admirative is traditionally defined as a mood expressing sur-
prise, it is also used to express irony, doubt, reportedness, etc. In all its uses the
admirative somehow refers to the speaker's present or past nonconfirmation of
the truth of the statement.14
This is obvious when the admirative is used to
express irony or doubt (as in example 18), but it is also the case when the
admirative is used for surprise (as in examples iii and iv, note 14) or reported
speech (as in example 17). Surprise results from a past state during which the
speaker would not have accepted the truth of some subsequently discovered fact
or event. In this manner, doubt/irony and surprise are two facets of the same type
of noncommitment; one refers to a state continuing into the moment of speech,
the other refers to the real or hypothetical existence of such a state rejected at the
moment of speech. It should be noted that surprise is not to be limited to
13
It has been argued by Sytov (1979:110-111) and Friedman (1981) that the admirative is not a
nonindicative mood for a number of reasons: (a) it refers to ontologically real events (cf. Aronson
1977:13); (b) it ordinarily takes the indicative negators nuk and s' rather than the modal negator mos,
(c) when functioning modally it is subordinated to the special modal particle të. Sytov suggests that a
Jakobsonian category such as 'evidential' might provide a better label. Following Aronson
(1977:13), I suggest that it is marked for a form of status (Friedman 1981). Regardless of the concrete
solution, it is clear that the admirative is not a mood like the optative, subjunctive, or conditional, but
is opposed to them, together with the nonadmirative indicative, as unmarked for such modality.
14
For more detailed discussion see Friedman (1981).
Friedman: Evidentialify in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian T81
expressions of strong amazement. Any expressive relation of the speaker to the
speech event in which there is some nuance of the unexpected can be included in
this use of surprise (cf. the use of terms such as 'unprepared mind' in Aksu and
Slobin, this volume, 'new information' in Akatsuka 1981, and also Lunt's
'distanced').15
Albanian has a rule of sequence of tenses for ordinary reported speech very
much like that of English, so that if a report is rendered using the admirative the
speaker is expressing noncommitment to the truth of the information, either due
to uncertainty or disbelief, or because it is somehow surprising. In addition to
examples (iii) and (iv) of note 14, the first of which expresses disbelieving
surprise and the second of which expresses pure, or believing, surprise, the
following examples illustrate the use of the admirative to express doubt and
reportedness:
(17) Një fare prifti nga Trikalla, i quajtur Dionis, u vu
one kind of-priest from Trikalla called Dionis put-himself
15
Akatsuka's argument that 'new information' is, in a sense, unreal for the speaker, creates a
bridge between the category evaluating ontological reality ('mood' in Aronson's terms) and the
category expressing speaker attitude ('status' in Aronson's terms). While this description of the
admirative makes it sound very similar to the Turkish forms in -mil (see
Aksu and Slobin 1981), there
are significant differences in their uses, as can be seen from comparing the following sentences taken
from Albanian and Turkish translations of the Bulgarian novel Baj Ganjo:
(iii) Nga e paske marrë vesh ti që une jam
whence it have gotten ear you that I am
liberal? (Albanian; Konstantinov 1975:118)
liberal
Liberallerden oldugumu sana kirn sôyledi? (Turkish; Konstantinov 1972:182)
From-liberals my-being to-you who said
'Where did you hear that I am a liberal?' or 'Who told you that I am liberal?'
(iv) Çudi qysh e hëngërki ju gjellën, fare pa bukë!—tha
wonder that it eat you the-soup completely without bread said
baj Ganua i çuditur. (Turkish; Konstantinov 1975:58)
Mr. Gano amazed
Siz ekmeksiz mi içiyorsunuz §u çorbayi yahu? diye de
you breadless ? are-drinking this soup ! saying and
§a§ar Bay Ganii. (Albanian; Konstantinov 1972:79)
wonders Mr. Ganii
'"My goodness, why you're drinking the soup without bread!" said Baj Ganjo in
amazement.'
In both examples Albanian uses admiratives, but Turkish does not use -mil forms in either.
Cf. also example (18) where the Turkish equivalent of the Albanian present admirative u pritka 'is
met, awaited, treated' is the so-called aorist (genii zaman) karçilanp agirlamr 'be met and treated as
a guest' (Konstantinov 1972:84).
182 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
ne krye të masës se fshatarëve, duke thirrur se
at head of mass of peasants while shouting that
ne trupin e tij paskej hyrë fryma e shenjtë. (Godo 1972:57)
into body his had entered spirit holy
'Some priest from Trikalla called Dionis put himself at the head of the
peasant masses shouting that the holy spirit had entered his body.'
(18) £ na i dashka bullgarét... Ai ë! . . . E pse,
and to-us them loves Bulgarians He hah! And why
kështu u pritka një Bullgar? (Konstantinov 1975:61)
thus is met a Bulgarian
'And he (said he) likes us Bulgarians. Him? Hah! After all, is that how you
treat a Bulgarian?'
In example (17), the author is casting doubt on Dionis's claim, while in (18) the
form dashka is a mocking report of what someone else has said, while u pritka
expresses surprise at the actual treatment. Thus, the three major uses of the
Albanian admirative—surprise, disbelief, and reportedness—correspond to the
three major types of nonconfirmative use of the indefinite past in Balkan
Slavic.16
COMPARISON OF ALBANIAN AND BALKAN SLAVIC
In some contexts, these nonconfirmative uses of the Balkan Slavic indefinite past
appear to have a present meaning, and this has sometimes been taken as evidence
that the nonconfirmative uses of these forms constitute a separate, tenseless
paradigm marked only for evidentiality. As will be seen, however, all such uses
in Balkan Slavic have some type of past reference. Since Weigand's (1923/4)
comparison of the Bulgarian indefinite past with the Albanian present admi-
rative, which he erroneously treats as a synchronic inverted perfect, it has been
commonly assumed that there is a one-to-one correspondence between the Alba-
nian admirative and the nonconfirmative uses of the Balkan Slavic indefinite
past. In actuality, as can be seen from comparisons of translations (See Friedman
1982), the vast majority of Albanian present admiratives correspond to Balkan
Slavic simple presents, while most Balkan Slavic indefinite pasts correspond to
Albanian nonadmirative past tense forms. Thus, for example, the Balkan Slavic
equivalent of present admirative hëngërki 'you eat' in example (iv) of note 14 is
the present tense form jadete (Konstantinov 1973:58, 1967:50), while that of
present admirative u pritka 'is met' in example (18) is Bulgarian se posrešta and
16
As was indicated earlier, the Bulgarian indefinite past generally lacks the third singular
auxiliary in these usages, but this is not always the case (see, e.g., Stojanov 1964:§407, Démina
1959:322-323 n. 36).
Friedman: Evidentiality in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 183
Macedonian se prečekuva (Konstantinov 1973:60, 1967:54), which are also
present tense forms.
Those few examples in which an Albanian present admirative corresponds in
translation to a Balkan Slavic indefinite past refer to some ontologically past state
or event and usually employ the verbs 'be' or 'have'. Thus the form dashka
'loves' in example (18) corresponds to the Bulgarian indefinite past obicâl and
the Macedonian sakal (Konstantinov 1973,60, 1967:54), but the speech event
being mocked by these words took place in the past. It is impossible to use an
indefinite past with a present reported meaning unless there is a past speech event
to which it refers, as can be seen from the following example:
(19) *Ivan šte kaže če ne znael. (Bulgarian)
*Jovan k'e reče deka ne znael. (Macedonian)
John will say that not knew
*'John will say that he doesn't know.'
The form ne znael cannot report the speaker's anticipation that John will say Ne
znam 'I don't know', because in such a context there is no past event—neither
the saying nor the knowing—for znael to refer to. Hence the indefinite past
cannot replace a present tense form, i.e. it cannot have a 'present' meaning,
unless it actually has some type of concrete past reference. Sentence (19) could
be used to mean 'John will say he didn't know', but in that case ne znael must
refer to a time in the past when, as John will claim, he did not know. Thus the
use of the indefinite past to render reported speech events with an apparently
present meaning (as in the Slavic translations of 18) actually represents a type of
sequence of tense usage similar to the English He said he loved Bulgarians as a
report of / love Bulgarians.
Most Balkan Slavic examples with 'be' and 'have' corresponding to an Alba­
nian present admirative represent a use of the indefinite past to refer to a state
which has been true before but was only discovered by the speaker at the moment
of speech:
(20) Ama če si bil prost čovek. (Bulgarian; Konstantinov
1967:83)
Ama si bil prost iovek. (Macedonian; Konstantinov
1967:87)
but that (you) have been simple person
'My, what a simpleton you are!'
Here the statement refers to a state which existed before the moment of speech
but only became apparent to the speaker at the time of speaking, so it has the
force of 'as it turns out, it has been true all along that . . .'. English normally
uses a present tense in such contexts, and Albanian could use the present admi­
rative qenke '(you) are' as the translation of the Balkan Slavic si bil, but the
184 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
Balkan Slavic usage can still be said to refer to the past time during which the
state was in existence but unsuspected by the speaker.I7
The actual translation of
(20) in the Albanian version of Baj Ganjo illustrates the difference between this
type of usage and ordinary Albanian admirative usage, for it is in precisely such
contexts, with the verbs 'be' and 'have' referring to states which existed for
some time before the speech event, that Albanian can also use an admirative
perfect, as well as a nonadmirative perfect or an admirative imperfect or pluper-
fect. All these possibilities are illustrated in the Albanian translation of Baj
Ganjo, but the actual translation of sentence (20) used a perfect admirative:
(21) Ama, i humbur fare paske gene. (Konstantinov 1975:92)
but lost completely (you) have been
These facts show that the Balkan Slavic admirative phenomenon, which is a
special use of a past tense form of 'be' or 'have' to refer to a pre-existent but
unsuspected state discovered at the moment of speech, actually corresponds to a
phenomenon of exactly the same type in Albanian and cannot be equated with
the Albanian series of admirative paradigms. The Balkan Slavic and Albanian
construction with 'be' and 'have' is a type of usage, while the Albanian admi-
rative is a morphologically distinct set of grammatically marked paradigms.
Although the Balkan Slavic system does not correspond exactly to the Alba-
nian system, the comparison is instructive insofar as the new nonconfirmative
meanings which became associated with the Balkan Slavic indefinite past are
very similar to those which became associated with the Albanian inverted per-
fect, which subsequently developed into a paradigmatically distinct set of
marked forms.
CONCLUSIONS
On the basis of the material presented here, the following statements can be made
about evidentiality in the Balkans.18
First of all, the forms under consideration
17
Cf. the Turkish version, which uses the enclitic mij-form of 'be':
(v) Amma da alalsiz §eymi$sin be! (Konstantinov 1972:134)
but and mindless thing-you-are hey
18
Of the other languages of the Balkans, Greek and the Romance languages do not have any type
of grammaticalized evidential distinction, and Turkish is treated elsewhere in this volume (see Aksu
and Slobin), although there may be significant differences between standard Turkish usage and the
Rumelian dialects and Gagauz. A study of such differences has yet to be undertaken, but the
subjective impression of some informants is that Turks from the Balkans do use the relevant forms
differently. It is reported that the Sliven dialect of Romani also has an evidential distinction based on
an invariant particle and modeled on the Bulgarian use of the /-participle (K. Rostov 1973:108). It is
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 185
do not mark the source of information or evidence, but rather the speaker's
attitude toward it. The question of whether the source of information was a
report, deduction, direct experience, or something else is answered by the con-
text in which the speaker's choice of form occurs. Thus terms such as 'eviden-
tial' or 'inferential' do not really define the grammatical category expressed by
these forms. Rather, these terms describe specific meanings associated with a
generic category.
As was indicated at the beginning of this article, the relevant category is that
which expresses the speaker's attitude toward the narrated event. Jakobson
(1957), following Vinogradov and traditional opinion, labels this category
MOOD. Aronson (1977:13-15), however, follows Goiab's (1964:1) definition of
mood as the ontological (objective) evaluation of the narrated event (modal =
nonreal/indicative = real; see also Kurylowicz 1956:26; Janakiev 1962; Lyons
1969:304ff.) and uses Jakobson's term 'status' to refer to the subjective evalua-
tion of the narrated event of the type which has been considered in this article. Of
particular relevance to Aronson's arguments are similarities and relationships
between mood and aspect (cf., e.g., He would eat lox and bagel every Monday
(a) if he could afford it. (b) when he was in graduate school.), and distinctions
between ontological evaluations such as negation and interrogation, which Jak-
obson gives as examples of status, and subjective evaluations such as the English
assertive dô (e.g., He did go.), which Jakobson also gives as an example of
status, but which Aronson compares to the Balkan Slavic phenomena discussed
here. These arguments, and the entire question of labeling the category express-
ing the speaker's attitude, however, are beyond the scope of this article. Such a
task requires the complete re-evaluation of the nature of modality. The goal here
has been to distinguish the relevant paradigms, define the meanings they express,
and indicate their routes of development.
In Balkan Slavic the Common Slavic aorist and imperfect developed into the
definite past with an invariant marking for the speaker's confirmation of the
information being conveyed. At the same time the Common Slavic perfect devel-
oped into the indefinite past with a chief contextual variant meaning of noncon-
firmation. (During the course of its development into an indefinite past, the
perfect, which could only be formed on the basis of the aorist stem in Common
Slavic, developed an imperfect/aorist opposition parallel to that of the definite
past.) The most common reason for the speaker's choosing the form which can
express the meaning of nonconfirmation is that the source of information is a
report or deduction, but it is the speaker's attitude toward the reliability of the
truth-value of the information, and not the evidence on which it is based, that is
sometimes claimed that Serbo-Croatian possesses a witnessed/nonwitnessed distinction based on the
forms which correspond to the Balkan Slavic definite and indefinite past, but there is much disagree-
ment on this point, and the arguments for it do not seem particularly convincing (see Friedman
1977:34, 123).
186 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
crucial in determining the choice of forms, as was seen in examples (1), (2), and
(4). The perfect, however, also retained its old resultative nuances while expand­
ing into contexts vacated by the definite past. Thus, as in the rest of Slavic, the
perfect has become the unmarked past in Balkan Slavic by virtue of the fact that
it cannot be assigned a single invariant meaning and applies to the widest range
of contexts.
In the pluperfects, however, the development of the confirmative/
nonconfirmative opposition coincided with the development of new forms.
Here the opposition became equipollent rather than privative, with new forms
being both markedly confirmative and markedly nonconfirmative. This is to
say that what was added on to an existing form as its Hauptbedeutung could
become the Gesamtbedeutung of newly developed forms. The implication that
the speaker's attitude is based on the source of the information has been virtually
grammaticalized in these newer forms, as seen in examples (15) and (16).
In Albanian, the type of nonconfirmative meanings which appear as the chief
contextual variant meanings of the Balkan Slavic descendants of the old perfect
became attached to an inverted perfect which then broke off and formed a
separate set of paradigms without the development of any marked confirmative
forms.19
Thus, evidentiality in the Balkans actually involves the speaker's attitude
toward the truth of the statement. The languages considered here display a
pattern in which nonconfirmative evidential meaning appears as invariant only in
newly developed forms, i.e. those which developed during the rise of eviden­
tiality itself, while confirmative meaning occurs where nonconfirmativity is also
present as a chief contextual variant meaning.
REFERENCES
Akatsuka, Noriko, 1981. Conditionals. Unpublished paper.
Andrejčin, Ljubomir. 1944. Osnovna bûlgarska gramatika. Sofia: Hemus.
Aronson, Howard I. 1967. The grammatical categories of the indicative in the contemporary Bul-
garian literary language. To honor Roman Jakobson, vol. 1, 82-98. The Hague: Mouton.
1977. Interrelationships between aspect and mood in Bulgarian. Folia Slavica 1,1.9-32.
Buslaev, F. 1959. Istoričeskaja grammatika russkogo jazyka. Moscow: Akademija nauk SSSR.
Comrie, Bernard. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University.
Dejanova, Marija. 1970. Izjavitelnijat perfekt bez spomogatelen glagol v bûlgarski ezik v sravnenie
sus sùrboxùrvatski. Bûlgarski ezik 19.843-853.
Démina, Evgenija I. 1959. Pereskazyvatel'nye formy v sovremmenom bolgarskom literaturnom
jazyke. Voprosy grammatiki bolgarskogo literaturnogo jazyka, ed. by Samuil B. Bemštejn,
313-378. Moscow: Akademija nauk SSSR.
Demiraj, Shaban. 1971. Habitorja dhe mosha e saj. Studime filologjike 8,3.31-49.
Dodi, Anastas, 1968. Për vlerën e se kryerës se dëftorës ne gjuhën shqipe. Studime filologjike
5,1.60-74.
19
The nonadmirative perfect has become or is becoming the unmarked past in Albanian (cf. Dodi
1968).
Friedman: Evidentially in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian and Albanian 187
Friedman, Victor A. 1977. The grammatical categories of the Macedonian indicative. Columbus:
Slavica.
1981. Admirativity and confirmativity. Zeitschrift fur Balkanologie 17.12-28.
1982. Admirativity in Bulgarian compared with Albanian and Turkish. Bulgaria past and
present, vol. 1, 63-67. Sofia: Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
Georgiev, Vladimir. 1957. Vùznikvane na novi složni glagolni formi sus spomogatelen glagol imam.
Izvestija na Instituta za bùlgarski ezik 5.31-59.
Godo, Sabri. 1972. Ali Pashë Tepelena. Prishtina: Rilindja.
Gohjb, Zbigniew, 1964. The problem of verbal moods in Slavic languages. International Journal of
Slavic Linguistics and Poetics 8.1-36.
Haarman, Harald. 1970. Die indirekte Erlebnisform als grammatische Kategorie. Eine eurasische
Isoglosse. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Jakobson, Roman. 1957. Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. Cambridge: Harvard
University.
Janakiev, Miroslav. 1962. Za gramemite naričani v bulgarska gramatika 'segašno vreme' i 'bùdeste
vreme'. Izvestija na Instituta za bùlgarski ezik 8.420-432.
Koneski, Blaze. 1967. Gramatika na makedonskiot literaturen jazik. Skopje: Kultura.
Konstantinov, Aleko. 1973. Baj Ganjo. Sofia: Bùlgarski pisatel. (1st ed. 1895).
1967. Baj Ganjo. Skopje: Kultura. (Macedonian translation by ćorgi Caca).
1972. Bay Garni. Istanbul: Milliyet. (Turkish translation by Ismail B. Aglagul).
1975. Baj Gano. Prishtina: Rilindja. (Albanian translation by Dhurata Xoxa).
Rostov, Kiril. 1973. Zur Bedeutung des Zigeunerischen fiir die Erforschung Grammatischer Inter-
ferenzerscheinungen. Balkansko ezikoznanie 16.99-113.
Rostov, V. 1972. Semantische Beobachtung iiber die Verbindung von imam mit dem Partizipium
Perfecti Passivi im Bulgarischen. Zeitschrift fiir Slawistik 17.371-379.
Rurylowicz, Jerzy. 1956. L'Apophonie en indo-européen. Wroclaw: Polska Akademija Nauk.
Lohmann, Johannes. 1937. 1st das Idg. Perfektum nominalen Ursprungs? Runst Zeitschrift 64.42-
61.
Lunt, Horace. 1952. A grammar of the Macedonian literary language. Skopje: Državno
knigoizdatelstvo.
Lyons, John. 1969. Introduction to theoretical linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University.
Nova Makedonija. (Daily newspaper published in Skopje.)
Penčev, Jordan. 1967. Kûm vùprosa za vremenata v sûvremennija bùlgarski ezik. Bùlgarski ezik
17.131-143.
1968. Ronstrukcii s glagola imam. Slavističen sbornik, ed. by Lj. Andrejčin and St.
Stojkov, 173-177. Sofia: Bulgarska akademija na naukite.
Roth, Juliana. 1979. Die indirekten Erlebnisformen im Bulgarischen: Eine Untersuchung zu ihrem
Gebrauch in der Umgangssprache. (Slavistische Beitràge 130). Wiesbaden: Sagner.
Serebrennikov, Boris A. 1974. Verojatnostnye obosnovanija v komparativisktike. Moscow: Nauka.
Stankov, Valentin. 1967. Rategorii na indikativa v sûvremennija bùlgarski ezik. Bùlgarski ezik
1967:330-344.
Stojanov, Stojan. 1964. Gramatika na bùlgarskija knižoven ezik. Sofia: Nauka i izkustvo.
Sytov, A. P. 1979. Kategorija admirativa v albanskom jazyke i ee balkanskie sootvetsvija. Problemy
sintaksisa balkanskogo areala, ed. by A. V. Desnickaja, 90-124. Leningrad: Nauka.
Teodorov-Balan, Aleksandûr. 1957. Osobit sùstav s glagola imam. Izvestija na Instituta za bùlgarski
ezik 5.23-29.
Vidoeski, Božidar. 1962. Rumanovskiot govor. Skopje: Institut za makedonski jazik.
Weigand, Gustav. 1923/4. The admirative in Bulgarian. The Slavonic Review 2.567-568.
The White House Transcripts. 1974. Ed. by Irwin Horowitz et al. New York: Bantam.
ELEVEN
Interactions of Tense and
Evidentialify: A Study of Sherpa
and English*
Anthony C. Woodbury
University of Texas at Austin
INTRODUCTION
The hypothesis of this paper is that when grammatical categories occur together
their semantic content limits the ways they can interact. If we understand in
general terms how the semantic content of two grammatical categories combines
(or fails to combine) when they occur together in a proposition, we can predict
how the surface inflectional forms that express them will interact with each
other. Such an approach promises to narrow the range of possible inflectional
systems predicted by a universal grammar, and to motivate many as yet unex-
plained semantic and distributional patterns appearing in inflectional systems in
language after language. To a degree, of course, this hypothesis is already
implicitly accepted by linguists in order to explain some of the more obvious
interactions of grammatical categories. For example, in a language with an
optative mood the co-occurrence of the optative with inflection for second person
subject is generally expected to yield an imperative of some kind, and this
expectation is based on the semantic content of the categories 'optative' and
'second person'. As a second example, in a language distinguishing animate vs.
inanimate natural gender among its nouns, the gender opposition is generally
expected to neutralize in first and second person pronouns. In this case too, the
expectation is based on the semantic content of the categories involved, and their
meaning in combination.
* Many thanks to Konchhok Lama, who served as informant on Sherpa, and to Orin Gensler,
Mary Haas, John Kingston, James Matisoff, Johanna Nichols, Michael Silverstein, Henry
Thompson, and Kenneth Whistler for comments on earlier versions of the material presented here.
Funds for fieldwork in 1975 and 1976 were provided by the Department of Linguistics, University of
California, Berkeley.
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentiality: A Study of Sherpa and English 189
Here I will take up a decidedly nonobvious categorial interaction which can
nevertheless be explained in terms of the hypothesis discussed above. It is the
interaction of some EVIDENTIAL oppositions with some TENSE oppositions. I will
begin by discussing this interaction in the verb inflection system of Sherpa,
where I first became aware of it. Sherpa is a member of the Tibeto-Burman
family related very closely to Tibetan, and it is spoken in the Solu-Khumbu
district of Nepal in the Himalayas south of Mt. Everest.1
In Sherpa, evidential
and tense(-aspect) categories are the principal categories expressed in verb in-
flection. The morphemes signaling evidential categories are peculiarly skewed:
what marks a particular category in one tense takes on a different meaning in
another tense; there, a different morpheme expresses the meaning of the first
category. I will argue that this interaction is a consequence of how the evidential
and tense categories involved combine semantically. If this is correct, it makes
testable predictions about the interactions of the same categories when they show
up in other languages. I will show that the correct predictions are made for
English, which expresses the relevant categories in part inflectionally, but in part
syntactically and lexically. Since English makes a few more distinctions than
Sherpa does, it sheds light on the Sherpa system. Finally, I will briefly discuss
what significance should be attached to the fact that Sherpa expresses the tense-
evidential interaction in its inflectional system, while English does so in other
parts of its structure.2
-v—
' Uata from Sherpa is from Konchhok Jangbu Lama, born around 1950 and abbot of Tâkshindhu
Monastery, Solu-Khumbu District, Nepal. Members of the Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL) are
responsible for most of the published work on Sherpa (B. Schôttelndreyer 1975, 1980a, 1980b; B.
and H. Schôttelndreyer 1973). Their work was done in—or with speakers from—Kerung, near
Solleri, approximately forty air miles south of Tâkshindhu. Dialect differences are noticeable. The
Schôttelndreyers' published work so far contains little on the semantics of verb inflection, and it is
hoped that this work will supplement this aspect of the effort to make grammatically analyzed
material on Sherpa available.
Transcription is phonemic. The consonants are /p, ph, b, m, t, th, d, n, ts, tsh, dz, t, th, d, c, ch,
j , jl, k, kh, g, rj, s, Š, h, w, r, r, 1,1, y/ and the vowels are /a, aa, i, u, e, o/. There are four phonemic
tones, working at the word level rather than the syllable level. Tone is transcribed following the SIL's
system, using word-initial apostrophe and word final q, as follows:
• • • -1 = high rising
• • • -q = high falling
• • • • = low rising
• • • • = low falling
In some examples, recorded early in my field work, tone transcription is omitted.
2
For a comprehensive treatment of category interaction in the Sherpa inflectional system and a
fuller demonstration of the hypothesis of the present paper, see Woodbury 1982. The tense-evidential
interaction discussed here is just one among many.
190 Evidenfiality Elsewhere in the World
INTERACTIONS OF EVIDENTIAL AND TENSE CATEGORIES
IN SHERPA
Sherpa has three main tense categories, present, future, and past. The first two
are formed from nonpast verb stems, and the last from past verb stems. (The
present, and to an extent the future, has several contrasting aspectual forms. We
will consider here only the habitual, which is least marked formally, and by far
the most common in available texts. All present tense aspects behave similarly
with respect to evidential categories.) Table 1 shows the inflections schemat-
ically, in morphophonemic representation, and Table 2 illustrates them for the
verb 'dur]-/'du- 'hit'. The evidential meanings of the forms in Table 2 are given
in parentheses.
In what follows, the surface evidential contrasts in each tense are presented,
showing how tense skews both evidential meaning and the distribution of eviden-
tial forms. In the course of the exposition an explanation for the skewing is
developed based on the semantic content of the categories involved.
Evidential Contrasts in the Present Tense (Habitual Aspect)
The principal evidential opposition in the present tense is carried in the habitual
aspect by the HABITUAL EXPERIENTIAL (HE; nP + kil + i +nok) vs. the GNOMIC
(GN; nP 4-kil + i +wi). The habitual experiential indicates that the speaker
ports to see or have seen the present tense narrated event taking place, or to
perceive it in some other direct way, e.g. by hearing or feeling it take place. By
contrast, the gnomic indicates either that the speaker does NOT purport to have
such evidence, or else (in some contexts) that he purports NOT to have it.
Consider these minimal pairs:
Table 1. Schematic Representations of Some Major Sherpa Verbal Inflections
Morphological Composition
Name of Inflection Abbr. Stem (Nominalizer) (Aux.) Evidential
Non-past stem inflections
Gnomic GN
Habitual experiential HE
Future first person FF
Future inferential FI
Past stem inflections
Past experiential PE
Past inferential PI
nP +kil + i +wi
nP +kil + i +nok
nP (+wa) +in
nP +upl+wap +nok
P +sun
P +nok
Note: nP = nonpast stem; P = past stem
GN ' dun-gu-wi
HE 'dun-gi-nok
FF 'dun-in
FI ' dun-gum-nok
PE du-sun
PI du-nok
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentiality: A Study of Sherpa and English 191
Table 2. Illustration of Major Sherpa Verbal Inflections with ,
dun-(nP)/,
du-(P)
'hit'
'(someone) hits, is hitting' (It is known . . .); (someone)
will hit'
'(someone) hits, is hitting' (I see, have seen . . .)
'(I) will hit' (I think . . .)
'(I) will hit' (I can tell you right now . . .)
'(someone) hit' (I saw . . .)
'(someone) hit' (I infer . . .; I hear . . .)
(la) 'ti 'gi -nok
he come-HE
'he comes, is coming' (I see, have seen . . .)
(lb) 'ti 'gi -wi
he come-GN
'he comes, is coming' (It is known . . .); 'he will come'
(2a) daa saa-p mi ti yembur-laa de -ki-nok.
rice eat-NOMNLZR man he Katmandu-DAT stay-HE
'The man who is eating rice lives in Katmandu.' (I see, have seen . . .)
(2b) daa saa-p mi ti yembur-laa de -ki-wi.
rice eat-NOMNLZR man he Katmandu-DAT stay-HE
'The man who is eating rice lives in Katmandu.' (It is known . . .)
With (la), the speaker indicates that he sees or has seen the man on his way,
whereas with (lb), this is left open. The same holds for (2a) and (2b). I will
represent the evidential value of the habitual experiential as + EXPERIENTIAL,
and that of the gnomic as -EXPERIENTIAL. (Both inflections indicate that the
speaker purports to be certain of the proposition, and a fuller treatment would
reflect this too with an appropriate feature.) The future use of the gnomic shown
in (lb) will be discussed below.
The nature of the + / - EXPERIENTIAL opposition is further revealed by the
distribution of the habitual experiential and gnomic inflections in the presence of
first person experiencers or actors. In (3) ya T (nominative case) has the role of
experiencer, and in (4)jie T (ergative case) has the role of actor:
(3a) na ne -nok (<na +i +nok)
I sick-HE
'I am sick.'
(3b) na ne -wi.
I sick-GN
*'I am sick.' (But grammatical for T will be sick'.)
192 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
(4a) *jte ca jiimi dyer) thun -ki-nok,
I (ERG) tea day every drink-HE
'I drink tea every day. '
(4b) jie ca jtimi dyer) thun -gu-wi.
I (ERG) tea day every drink-GN
'I drink tea every day.'
In both pairs the habitual experiential vs. gnomic opposition is neutralized,
apparently reflecting the fact that in reports by a speaker of his own internal
experiences or his own actions, the +/— EXPERIENTIAL opposition usually
raises a moot question. It is interesting that the habitual experiential is required
when the first person is an experiencer, so that the speaker's own internal
experiences must be reported as having been directly perceived while they oc-
curred. On the other hand the selection of the gnomic in clauses with first person
actors is not so clearly motivated semantically. The gnomic may occur with first
person actors only by default, reserving the habitual experiential for first person
experiencer subjects, where it is especially appropriate.3
It is clear from the morphology of the habitual experiential and the gnomic
that their common tense-aspect meaning lies in the stem-plus-auxiliary assembly
that they share, nP +ki/+i-, and that their evidential values are carried by the
final suffixes +nok and +wi, respectively. Etymologically, +nok is the unin-
flectable linking verb 'nok, and +wi the uninflectable linking verb 'wayi. Like
the habitual experiential and the gnomic, 'nok and 'wayi have the evidential
values +EXPERIENTIAL and -EXPERIENTIAL, respectively:
(5a) di khanb-i nay -laa pye nok.
this house-GEN inside-DAT rat LINK
'This house has rats.' (I see, have seen . . .)
(5b) di khanb-i nan -laa pye wayi.
this house-GEN inside-DAT rat LINK.
'This house has rats.' (It is known . . .)
3
The first person vs. nonfirst person distinction is widespread in Sherpa, but the term 'first
person' is something of a misnomer. In the interrogative all so-called first person phenomena are
associated with second person. This is because second person forms in questions anticipate the use of
first person in the answer: compare the following with (3a-b)
(i) khyeruy na -nok?
you sick-HE (INT)
'Are you sick?'
(ii) *khyerun na -wi?
you sick-GN (INT)
'Are you sick?'
Clearly, the habitual experiential in (i) anticipates the evidential value of (3a).
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentiality: A Study of Sherpa and English 193
Uses of these linking verbs are always present tense. To express linked proposi-
tions in the past and future supplétive verbs that DO inflect are used. This is
significant because, as we shall see in following sections, the association of
+nok with +EXPERIENTIAL evidential value is a PECULIARITY of the present
tense.
Evidential Contrasts in the Past Tense
All past tense inflections are formed from the past stem of the verb. The principal
evidential distinction is carried by the past experiential (PE; P +surj) vs. the past
inferential (PI; P +nok). (A third form, the past first person, substitutes for the
past experiential when the actor is first person. It will not be considered here.)
The past experiential indicates that the speaker purports to have seen or otherwise
directly perceived the narrated event taking place. It can be marked as
+EXPERIENTIAL in the sense that the term was used for the habitual experien-
tial. The past inferential, by contrast, is —EXPERIENTIAL. Most importantly,
however, the past inferential indicates that the speaker purports to base the truth
of the narrated event on indirect evidence obtained in the present, or in the past
after the narrated event had been completed. The evidence may be a tangible
result of the narrated event from which the speaker has inferred its truth, or else
hearsay. The specification + INFERENTIAL will be used to indicate this entire
range. (In many evidential systems QUOTATIVES marking hearsay are kept dis-
tinct from true inferentials. Sherpa too has a specifically quotative inflection that
occurs in some contexts, but which is not discussed here.) In contrast, the past
experiential will be marked -INFERENTIAL. The following illustrate the past
tense contrasts:
(6a) 'jon-ki 'ti 'kursinq 'ti dzo -sur).
John-ERG the chair it build-PE
'John built the chair.' (I saw . . .)
(6b) 'jon-ki 'ti 'kursirjq 'ti dzo -nok.
John-ERG the chair it build-PI
'John built the chair.' (I infer . . .; I hear . . .)
Informant's comment: dzosun means 'I saw John build it'; dzonok means' I saw the
finished chair', or 'I heard that he built it'.
(7a) bil-ki iki 'ti -sur).
Bill-ERG letter write-PE
'Bill wrote a letter.' (I saw . . .)
(7b) bil-ki iki 'ti -nok.
Bill-ERG letter write-PI
'Bill wrote a letter.' (I infer . . .; I hear . . .)
194 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
Informant's comment: ' tisur) means 'I saw Bill write it'; ' tinok means 'I see or saw
the letter and recognize Bill's handwriting', or 'I heard that he wrote it'.
The informant's comments on the past inferential (b) forms should be taken as
suggestions for contexts in which the sentences would be appropriate, but seeing
a chair or recognizing Bill's handwriting are clearly not the only possible bases
for the conclusions expressed in (6b) and (7b).
The evidential contrast carried by these inflections is further illustrated by
clauses with an NP bearing the semantic role of experiencer. When the experi-
encer is first person the past experiential is favored over the past inferential, but
when it is nonfirst person, the reverse is the case:
(8a) ?rja naa -nok.
I sick-PI
'I was sick.' (I infer . . .)
(8b) na naa -surj.
I sick-PE
'I was sick.' (I felt . . ., perceived directly . . .)
(9a) 'ti naa -nok.
he sick-PI
'He was sick.' (I infer . . .)
(9b) ?'ti naa -surj.
he sick-PE
'He was sick.' (I saw . . .)
The speaker perceives his own internal states directly as they occur, motivating
the past experiential in (8b); someone else's internal states are usually inferred
from tangible evidence, or known by hearsay, motivating the past inferential in
(9a). Notice that the past experiential and the habitual experiential both are
favored in clauses with first person experiencer NPs. (In the present tense, as
noted above for examples (3-4), the habitual experiential is favored to the
exclusion of the gnomic.) This supports the claim that the evidential value
+EXPERIENTIAL is carried by both inflections.
To conclude this section, note that the morphology of the past inferential and
the past experiential is straightforward: the past stem signals their common tense
meaning, while their contrasting evidential values are carried by the final suffix-
es +nok and +surj.
Evidential Skewing in the Present and Past Tenses
The evidential value of +nok in the past inferential may seem surprising when
compared with its evidential value in the habitual experiential, as shown in Table
3, which summarizes the findings so far. Note that +nok has the value
+EXPERIENTIAL in the present, but -EXPERIENTIAL in the past. In the
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentiality: A Study of Sherpa and English 195
Table 3. Evidential Values Carried by the Morphemes + wi, +nok, and +s«rj in
Some Principal Sherpa Present and Past Tense Inflections.
+ wi +nok +surj
Present tense
(gnomic and habitual -EXPERIENTIAL + EXPERIENTIAL
experiential)
Past tense
(past inferential and past -EXPERIENTIAL + EXPERIENTIAL
experiential) + INFERENTIAL -INFERENTIAL
past +nok also has the value +INFERENTIAL. Thus the evidential value of
+nok is skewed by tense.
A Theory of Sherpa Evidential Skewing and Its
Cross-Linguistic Implications
I propose to treat +nok as having a single basic evidential value which I will call
IMMEDIATE EVIDENCE. With a marker of immediate evidence the speaker pur-
ports to have evidence for the truth of the proposition, and to have gotten it in the
present. (I mean PRESENT in the sense of the present tense, and include evidence
obtained at the moment of utterance, as well as evidence obtained in the past but
continuing to be available in the present, or expected still to be available in the
future.) The category of immediate evidence combines with different tenses to
give more specialized evidential values. When the proposition as a whole is in
the past tense, the evidence immediately perceived cannot be the event itself
since it is already complete at the time of speaking. Thus an immediate evidence
marker cannot have the value + EXPERIENTIAL with past tense propositions.
Accordingly, when the Sherpa immediate evidence marker +nok occurs with
past tense propositions in the past inferential, it indicates perception of a RESULT
—either tangible evidence or hearsay—of the past tense narrated event. When
the Sherpa immediate evidence marker occurs with present tense propositions in
the habitual experiential it does have the value + EXPERIENTIAL. (Logically
speaking, there is no reason why it could not also have the value + INFER-
ENTIAL, since it is possible to make inferences in the present about something
going on in the present.)
The foregoing account, uniting inferential meaning in the past with experien-
tial meaning in the present appeals to the following general principle concerning
the combination of evidential and tense meaning:
(10) When the time reference of an evidential category is different from that of the
proposition with which it occurs, the resulting evidential value will be
nonexperiential.
196 Evidentialify Elsewhere in the World
The immediate evidence category has present tense time reference, and thus has
different evidential values with past and present tense propositions.4
(10) makes testable cross-linguistic predictions. It is based on the semantic
content of the categories involved, and it limits the ways they are expected to
interact. The fact that inferential and quotative (hearsay) are commonly attested
nonexperiential evidential values adds to its predictive power: it should be com-
mon to find inferential and experiential categories signaled by the same mor-
phological or syntactic devices in different tense contexts. Note that (10) leaves
open whether an experiential will result when the time reference of evidential and
proposition coincide, since it is possible to make inferences about something at
the same time that it is going on.
Finally, if (10) is correct, then the time reference of +surj in the past experi-
ential must coincide with that of the past tense propositions with which it occurs.
I know of no evidence disputing this.
Theory of Evidential Skewing Applied to Evidential Contrasts in the
Sherpa Future Tense
The principal marker of future tense is the gnomic. A future reading of it is
shown in (lb) and (3b). However when a first person actor NP is present, the
gnomic is joined by two more inflections, the future first person (FF; nP (+wa)
+ in) and the future inferential (FI; nP +up/ + wap- +nok). The inflections differ
from each other in evidential value. I will show that the evidential value of the
future inferential is accounted for by the analysis of + nok as an immediate
evidence marker, and the princple in (10). (The evidential value of the gnomic
with first person actors will not be taken up here.)
As a first approximation, the future first person indicates that the speaker
purports to be guessing about the truth of the future proposition, while the future
inferential indicates a stronger commitment:
(11a) jie 'ti-laa salaa 'sir-um-nok.
I (ERG) he-DAT tomorrow say -FI
'I will say (it) to him tomorrow.' (I can tell you right now . . .)
(lib) jie 'ti-laa salaa 'sir-in.
I (ERG) he-DAT tomorrow say -FF
T will say (it) to him tomorrow.' (I think . . .)
4
The immediate evidence analysis of +nok does not account for uses of the past inferential in
which the evidence was obtained in the past, after the completion of the narrated event. I retain the
immediate evidence analysis, but in doing so commit myself to claiming that the meaning of the past
inferential has EXTENDED to cover instances where the evidence was not obtained in the present. In
effect then, I claim that the past inferential is lexicalized, since its meaning is not strictly predictable
from the meaning of its parts. This issue is discussed again in another section.
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentiality: A Study of Sherpa and English 197
(12a) na 'khyerun 'dun-gum-nok.
I you hit-Fl
'I will hit you.' (I can tell you right now . . .)
(12b) na 'khyerun 'dur)-in.
I you hit -FF
'I will hit you.' (I think . . .)
In (11a) the future inferential has the force of a commitment, and in (12a) the
force of a threat or bluff. They contrast with (lib) and (12b), which indicate no
extraordinary commitment on the speaker's part. The following is a textual
example of the future inferential to illustrate it further:
(13) 'ti iki -ki 'len "khyerun dye
the letter-GEN answer you here
'phye -wup 'si-nok 'si-sin, jie-ki to
come.HONRFC-NOMNLZR CONDITIONAL I-ERG year
cik-kiq 'dosun 'yomo puraq 'ton -gum-nokq' 'si-nok.
one-GEN expense any all handle-FI say-PI
'The answer to the letter said, "If you wish to come here 1 will take care of
all of your expenses for one year' '. '
Had the future first person been used in place of the future inferential, the offer
would have seemed only lukewarm.
If +nok in the future inferential is an immediate evidence marker, and the
stem plus auxiliary complex nP +up/ + wap- marks future tense, then (10) pre-
dicts that its evidential value must be nonexperiential. This much is clearly the
case, since in using the future inferential the speaker does not purport to directly
experience the narrated event in the future! But I suggest further that the future
inferential has the evidential value + INFERENTIAL. It is an inferential in the
sense that the speaker purports to have direct evidence in the present which
allows him to predict with certainty the actions he is going to take in the future.
In principle, future inferentials need not be restricted to propositions with first
person actors (compare the English future inferential expression It looks like it's
going to rain). To account for the restriction in Sherpa we may surmise that the
immediate evidence meaning of +nok is narrowed in the future inferential to
include only the speaker's internal perceptions. (Other examples where +nok
marks internal perceptions are (3a), (4a), (8a), and (9a).) By this hypothesis, we
must attribute some lexicalization to the future inferential since it is not quite the
semantic sum of its parts.
THE INTERACTION OF EVIDENTIALITY AND TENSE IN ENGLISH
I will show here that English displays the same categorial interactions as tnose
discussed for Sherpa, that is, that it follows the predictions made by the principle
198 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
in (10). English illustrates the interactions in a very productive part of its gram-
mar, its syntax, and for this reason makes clear the ways in which the Sherpa
system is NOT productive. This in turn will explain why an obvious system in
English corresponds to a nonobvious system in Sherpa.
Let us take / see [S] as our marker of immediate evidence (with respect to the
complement [S]) in English. It should correspond to Sherpa +nok, and behave
with respect to tense as the principle in (10) would predict. (+nok, however, has
a broader meaning than / see [Sj since it includes nonvisual perceptions.) The
following examples show that when the complement in the English construction
is in tenses other than the present, nonexperiential evidential value is the result:
(14) / see (that) Jack was drinking.
(15) / see (that) Jack will be drinking.
In fact, (14) and (15) are not only nonexperiential, but inferential in particular.
Thus (14) might indicate that the speaker sees an empty bottle, and (15) a full
bottle. In this way both English and Sherpa not only follow (10), but both narrow
the evidential value from nonexperiential to inferential. (One difference, howev-
er, is that the Sherpa past inferential has inferential and quotative evidential
value, while (14) has only the former.)
When the complement in English / see [S] is in the present tense, the eviden-
tial value is broadened:
(16) / see (that) Jack is drinking.
In (16) the evidential (/ see [SJ) and the proposition itself (Jack is drinking) have
the same time reference (present). In this situation (10) does not explicitly rule
out either experiential or nonexperiential readings and, in fact (16) may be read
both as an experiential, in which I see Jack in the act, and as a nonexperiential
(inferential), in which, for example, I see a liquor bottle. Notice that the Sherpa
habitual experiential, which also involves an immediate evidence marker ( + nok)
and present tense on the proposition, is ONLY an experiential, and not an inferen-
tial. This restriction is a specific fact of Sherpa, and is not a consequence of (10).
(However, a more refined analysis of the categories involved in English and
Sherpa would perhaps motivate this difference in cross-linguistically valid se-
mantic terms.)
English does, in fact, have a complementizer which, when it marks the
complement in / see [S] constructions, explicitly signals experiential evidential
value:
(17) / see Jack drinking.
Here the complementizer is zero rather than that (with the subject of the comple-
ment verb appearing as an accusative), and the past vs. nonpast tense opposition
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentially: A Study of Sherpa and English 199
in the complement is neutralized. The time reference of/ see [S] and the comple-
ment are the same (in spite of the neutralization), so that according to (10) an
experiential reading is possible. (17) is like the Sherpa habitual experiential but
unlike (16) in that it never has non-experiential evidential value.
So far we have seen English patterns which are remarkably similar to those of
Sherpa, and which bear out the notion of immediate evidence as well as the
principle in (10). But (14-17) are selected entirely in terms of Sherpa. When we
pursue English a little further on its OWN terms, we find that the patterns
glimpsed in (14-17) further confirm (10) and shed new light on the Sherpa
evidential system.
English provides additional support for (10) because when / saw [S] is sub-
stituted for/ see [S], (10) is validated for evidentials with other-than-present time
reference. Consider these past evidential versions of English sentences already
discussed (tenses are adjusted in the lower clause to preserve evidential value):
(18) / saw Jack drinking. (Cf. (17) / see Jack drinking.)
(19) / saw (that) Jack had been drinking. (Cf. (14) / see that Jack was drinking.)
(20) / saw (that) Jack was drinking. (Cf. (16) / see that Jack is drinking.)
These sentences show that in English it is a combination of complement type and
tense SEQUENCE that determines evidential value, regardless of the tense of the
evidential marker. In (17) and (18) the complement type indicates simultaneity of
the main and complement clauses. As a consequence, tense is not overtly marked
in the latter. This simultaneity makes possible the experiential evidential value in
both (17) and (18), just as (10) would predict.
Sentences (14-16) and (19-20) have f/iaf-complements. In contrast to the
complement type in (17-18), r^af-complements are not necessarily simultaneous
with the main clause, and both clauses carry their own tense marking. When
main and complement clauses have different time reference, a nonexperiential
evidential value results, as (10) predicts. This is so whether the evidential marker
is / see [S] as in (14), or / saw [S] as in (19). When main clause and complement
clause have the same or overlapping time reference, experiential evidential value
becomes possible (but not obligatory), again, regardless of the particular tense of
the main clause (cf. (16) and (20)).
The English facts thus show that (10) applies to nonpresent evidential markers
as well as to present ones.
We have seen that English—unlike Sherpa—can INFLECT its evidential mark-
er / see [S] for tense, and that it uses contrasting complement types, as well as
tense sequencing, to indicate simultaneity and nonsimultaneity. This productivi-
ty in English allows us some insights into the less productive, more lexicalized
Sherpa system, which does not independently signal dimensions like simul-
taneity. For instance, notice that when the English sentences just discussed are
set beside Sherpa inflections with corresponding evidential values, shown in
Table 4, there is an interesting asymmetry. In (17) and (18), Sherpa distinguishes
200 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
Table 4. English Sentences and Sherpa Inflections with Similar Evidential
Values
English Sentence (Example Number) Sherpa Inflection
I see Jack drinking. (17) = nP+fa7 + i- +nok Habitual
experiential
I saw Jack drinking. (18) = P +surj Past
experiential
I see (that) Jack was drinking. (14) = P +nok Past
inferential
I saw (that) Jack had been (20) = P +nok Past
drinking. inferential
the I see [S] and / saw [S] forms, but in (14) and (20) it does not. Now, / see in
(17) and / saw in (18) correspond to +nok and +sug in the Sherpa forms. (The
rest of the Sherpa forms,nP+ki/ + i-vs.P-, marks the tense of the proposition to
which the inflection attaches.) There is no clear morphological relationship be-
tween + nok and +suy, as there is between / see vs. / saw, but the English
parallel suggests the possibility of a supplétive tense opposition carried by the
two Sherpa evidentials: +nok 'immediate evidence' vs. +suy 'past evidence'.
Some support for the suppletion hypothesis comes from the fact that +nok is not
itself inflectable for tense. Furthermore the linking verb 'nok, from which it
comes, is expressed in the past tense with a supplétive stem.
As noted, the Sherpa past inferential covers the tense-evidential values of both
(14) and (20). Given the analysis of +nok as an immediate evidential, it SHOULD
only cover (14). (In note 4 I proposed that the past inferential has been extended
to cover inferences based on evidence obtained in the past, and is thus lex-
icalized.) Now, if Sherpa were to distinguish the evidential value of (20) from
that of (14) in a way that follows the English pattern, it might (i) use a past tense
form of +nok and (ii) indicate somehow that the past act of evidence-getting that
it signals is not simultaneous with the past tense narrated event. This is the type
of solution that Sherpa gives to the problem of distinguishing the evidential
values of (17) and (18). (The past tense form is supplétive there, in my view.)
But Sherpa does not give such a solution in this case. Rather, the past inferential
is extended to cover the evidential value of (20), with the result that it is not
distinguished formally from the evidential value of (14).
Because they are formally and semantically finite, inflectional systems cannot
make as many distinctions as productive syntactic systems. In Sherpa the inflec-
tional system cuts corners where it might be cumbersome to carry out the logic of
its own categories. A case in point is the extension of the past inferential to cover
the evidential value of (20). Comparing the Sherpa inflectional system with a
semantically equivalent syntactic system in English helped show where the cor-
Woodbury: Interactions of Tense and Evidentiality: A Study of Sherpa and English 201
ners were cut, as well as suggest how forms like +nok and +suy were related. In
fact, it is precisely phenomena like the alternation of +nok and +suy in the
experiential forms and the extension of the meaning of the past inferential that
make the Sherpa tense-evidential system so inscrutable: they head one away from
a consistent, comprehensive analysis.
LINGUISTIC EXPRESSION OF TENSE-EVIDENTIAL INTERACTIONS,
AND THE NATIVE SPEAKER'S ANALYSIS
Tense-evidential interactions in Sherpa and English follow the principle in (10),
and the evidential values of Sherpa and English forms can often be equated
directly. In spite of this, the differences in formal means for expressing tense and
evidential categories in the two languages lead to important differences in how
speakers discuss their meanings. The following generalizations about my Sherpa
informant Konchhok Lama's translation practices illustrate this.
First, in translating from Sherpa to English, there was not a single instance
when Konchhok Lama included the Sherpa evidential value in his English
translation. (Notice that my own glosses of Sherpa sentences in this chapter
reflect this fact.) The only time he elucidated evidential value was when given
minimal pairs, as is specifically indicated in examples (6) and (7). Even then the
evidential value is ascribed to the whole inflected verb, rather than to the con-
trasting evidential suffixes, that is, to dzosuy vs. dzonok, and 'tisurj vs. 'tinok,
rather than to +suy vs. +nok. In fact, the question 'What does +nok mean?'
was not answerable in the terms in which Konchhok Lama understood his lan-
guage: it did not make sense to him.
Second, in giving Sherpa translations in English sentences containing /
saw . . . , someone said . . . , and so on, Konchhok Lama always rendered
these expressions lexically, as/ze . . . thoysuy 'I saw . . .', 'sinok 'someone
said . . .', and the like, and never only inflectionally, as past experiential or past
inferential. On repeated occasions this happened even when we had just arrived
at 'I saw . . .'or 'someone said . . .', etc., as (clumsy) glosses for members of
minimal pairs like (6) and (7)!5
One difference between the English and Sherpa forms that accounts for this is
that in English / see [S] and similar evidentials occupy the main clause in the
sentence, and are the main assertion. In Sherpa the evidential value is not the
main assertion, so that the negation of (6a), for example, means 'I saw John not
building the chair', rather than 'I did not see John building the chair'. This may
explain Konchhok Lama's reluctance to translate English lexical items with
Sherpa evidential inflections, and vice versa.
But why is it difficult to give +nok and other evidentials any gloss at all? It
5
It is of course very likely that Sherpa thoy- 'see' works much like see in English. If so, many of
the points in the preceding sections could be made without reference to English.
202 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
appears generally to be the case that IF some part of a linguistic system is going to
be inaccessible to speakers' conscious reflection, it is likely to involve bound (or
discontinuous or suprasegmental) morphemes more so than free lexical items,
members of sporadic alternations moreso than productive ones, and obligatory
more so than optional categories. (For a general theory of what speakers are likely
to be conscious of in their languages, see Silverstein 1979, 1981). Comparing
+nok and / see on these points, we find that +nok is bound and / see is free;
+nok alternates sporadically with +sutj and +wi, while / see alternates not only
with / saw, but also with you saw and with / hear, among many others; and +nok
and the other evidential morphemes are obligatory in Sherpa inflection, while
framing English utterances with / see [S] and similar evidentials is a matter left
entirely up to the speaker. It should be clear from these structural facts that the
English speaker has greater opportunity to reflect on the meaning of/ see than the
Sherpa speaker does on +nok.
We have seen, then, that the form that categories take has nothing to do with
their behavior with respect to principles like (10), but a great deal to do with how
speakers reflect on them. This first point is important for universal grammar, and
the second is important for the linguistic fieldworker, as well as for an under-
standing of how grammar is made conscious by individuals and by societies.
REFERENCES
Schôttelndreyer, Burkhard. 1975. Clause patterns in Sherpa. Collected papers in Sherpa—lirel, 1-
57. (Nepal Studies in Linguistics II.) Kirtipur, Nepal: Summer Institute of Linguistics,
Institute of Nepal and Asian Studies.
1980a. Glides in Sherpa. Papers in Southeast Asian linguistics, 7, ed. by Ronald L. Trail et
al., 107-112. (Pacific Linguistics A:53.) Canberra: Australian National University, Research
School of Pacific Studies.
1980b. Vowel and tone patterns in the Sherpa verb. Papers in Southeast Asian linguistics,
7, ed. by Ronald L. Trail et al., 113-123. (Pacific Linguistics A:53.) Canberra: Australian
National University, Research School of Pacific Studies.
, and Heiderose Schôttelndreyer. 1973. Sherpa texts. Clause, sentence, and discourse,
patterns in selected languages of Nepal, III. ed. by Austin Hale. (Summer Institute of
Linguistics Publications in Linguistics and Related Fields, 40:3.) Norman, OK: Summer
Institute of Linguistics.
Silverstein, Michael. 1979. Language structure and linguistic ideology. The elements'. A parasession
on linguistic units and levels, ed. by Paul R. Clyne, et al., 193-247. Chicago: Chicago
Linguistic Society.
1981. The limits of awareness. Texas Working Papers in Sociolinguistics.
Woodbury, Anthony C. 1982. Evidentiality in Sherpa verbal categories and its implications for
universal grammar. MS.
TWELVE
Evidentiality and Volitionalify
in Tibetan
Scott DeLancey
University of Oregon
INTRODUCTION
My purpose in this chapter is to describe a rather unusual evidential-like category
in Lhasa Tibetan and its interaction with a more typical evidential distinction and
with the category of agentivity or volitionality. I will also suggest an explanatory
account of these three semantic-morphosyntactic categories based on a general
approach to transitivity and agentivity proposed in DeLancey 1981a, 1982a, in
terms of which the pattern of interaction which they manifest in Tibetan is
entirely natural.
I will begin by describing and exemplifying the less common evidential-like
distinction, which I will refer to (rather clumsily) as the 'old/new knowledge'
distinction, and its morphosyntactic interaction with the category of volitionality.
I will then briefly describe the Tibetan manifestation of more typical (inferential)
evidentiality, which is marked only in the perfective system, and which makes
use of some of the same morphological material as the old/new distinction.
Finally I will argue that this morphosyntactic congruence and the interaction of
both evidential categories with volitionality provide useful insights into the se-
mantic/cognitive structure of both evidentiality and the old/new knowledge
distinction.
THE NONPERFECTIVE SYSTEM: VOLITIONALITY AND SPEAKER'S
KNOWLEDGE
In Standard Tibetan, ' as in many if not all other Tibetan dialects, we find a rathei
complicated tense/aspect/modality system which incorporates some evidential
1
Most of the data presented here was elicited from or checked with Mr. Thubten Tsering Dalor
Anyetsang. A few examples are taken from Goldstein and Nornang (1970) or Jin (1979) without
checking. All examples are in a transcription of standard Tibetan spelling; misspellings or othei
e
rrors are my responsibility.
204 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
categories. Most of the forms of the Standard Tibetan system are built on one of
four existential/copular verbs, yod, 'dug, yin, and red. Of these, the copulas yin
and red have the same tense/aspect value, marking future and some perfective
forms, and the existentials yod and 'dug likewise have the same value, marking
present forms. Our interest here is in the other distinction marked by the choice
of otherwise equivalent auxiliary, i.e. the choice of yod or yin vs. 'dug or red.
The Old/New Knowledge Distinction
All four of these verbs have main verb uses: yin and red are copular 'be' verbs,
which equate two NPs:
(la) Da slab-gra-ba yin.
I student be
'I am a student. '
(lb) K'on slab-gra-ba red.
s/he student be
'S/he is a student.'
Yod and 'dug are 'have' verbs which indicate possession, location, or
existence:
(2a) Da la ša-mo yod.
I LOC. hat exist
'I have a hat,'
(2b) Dorje la sa-mo 'dug.
D. LOC. hat exist
'Dorje has a hai.
(3a) Da k'atj-ba la yod.
I house LOC. exist
'I am in the house.'
(3b) Dorje k'an-ba la 'dug.
house LOC exist
'Done is in the house. '
(4a) Bod la gyag yod.
Tibet LOC. yak exist
'There are yaks in Tibet.'
The difference between yin and yod on the one hand and red and 'dug on the
other constitutes the core of the Tibetan evidential system. A rough approxima-
tion of the difference which is often presented by (native) teachers of Tibetan,
and which is made plausible by pairs such as (1), (2), and (3), has it as an
incipient personal agreement system, with yin and yod used with first person
subjects and red and 'dug with nonfirst persons. It is, however, easy to find
DeLancey: Evidentiality and Volitionality in Tibetan 205
examples such as (4a) which show that person is not the determining factor in the
choice at least of yod vs. 'dug.2
A more satisfactory approach is implied in Goldstein and Nornang's statement
that '['dug] constructions imply actual visual knowledge' (1970:23), which cor-
rectly suggests that a sentence like (4a) could be appropriately spoken by some-
one who has never seen a yak. Note that examples like (2a) and (3a) show that
this formulation must be based on visual and not simply first-hand knowledge.
However, a sentence like (2a) is perfectly acceptable even if the speaker has the
hat in his hand and thus can visually verify his statement.
The actual distinction (suggested by Goldstein 1973 and Jin 1979) is even
farther from the usual notion of evidentiality. Goldstein and Nornang's earlier
account correctly predicts that along with (4a), (4b) should be grammatical,
(4b) Bod la gyag 'dug.
Tibet LOC. yak exist
'There are yaks in Tibet. '
but fails to account for the fact that no Tibetan could ever say (4b), although
informants will accept it with the understanding that it was spoken by a non-
Tibetan. This fact makes it clear that eyewitness knowledge is not the relevant
criterion, since a Tibetan, who has actual visual knowledge of the presence of
yaks in Tibet, cannot use 'dug to report this fact. However, either (4a), with yod,
or (4b), with 'dug, could conceivably be spoken by a non-Tibetan. The distinc-
tion represented here is not, as in more typical evidential systems, the source of
the speaker's knowledge, but rather its relative novelty or the degree to which it
has been integrated into the speaker's overall scheme of knowledge of the world.
(4a) would be the appropriate form both for a Tibetan, who knows of the
existence of yaks in Tibet through daily experience, and for someone like me,
who knows the fact only by hearsay, but has known it for years. I could use (4a)
in describing what I know of the distribution of yaks, while (4b) might be the
response of someone who was fascinated with yaks but knew nothing of where
they existed until visiting Tibet and encountering one.
Yod, 'dug, and the Chain of Causality
The characterization of 'old' and 'new' knowledge which I will suggest later,
and the relationship between this distinction and true evidentiality, will be clar-
ified by consideration of a somewhat different sort of example:
2
It is clear that in their auxiliary use yin patterns with yod, and red with 'dug. Jin (1979) states
that the distinction between yin and red as main verbs also parallels that between yod and 'dug, but
m
y own data is not sufficient for me to exemplify this.
206 Evidentialiry Elsewhere in the World
(5a) Gza-spen-ba la tsog-'du yod.
Saturday LOC. meeting exist
'We have a meeting on Saturday.'
(5b) Gza-spen-ba la tsog-'du 'dug
Saturday LOC. meeting exist
'There's a meeting on Saturday.'
The difference between (5a) and (5b), suggested but not really captured by my
glosses, is that (5a) would be appropriate in case the speaker was involved in
organizing the meeting, while (5b) would be spoken by someone who, for
example, had seen a notice posted announcing the meeting. The relevant point is
not that one mode of knowledge is necessarily more certain than the other; (5b)
does not express any particular doubt that there will actually be a meeting.
Neither represents a category of eyewitness knowledge as opposed to inference;
although (5b) is reminiscent of the 'hearsay' category marked in some lan-
guages, we have seen in our discussion of (4a-b) that such an account is
inadequate.
To begin an attempt to describe the values of yod and 'dug, let us consider the
meeting as the terminus of a causal chain of events. In order for a meeting to take
place, someone has to decide that there should be one, arrange a time and place,
take steps to inform those who should attend, and so on. The meeting is realized
only as the outcome of such a chain of events. Let us simplify matters a bit, and
consider a two-event causal chain—the meeting is planned, and as a result it
occurs. This can be diagrammed with a simple vector representation:
(6) PLANNING -MEETING
where 'PLANNING' and 'MEETING' are specific instances of the general categories
CAUSE and EFFECT. In this case I would suggest that the choice of yod or 'dug
depends on where in this chain the speaker comes in, or, in other words, on what
portion of the vector he actually perceives and makes the basis of his statement.
The use of yod indicates an assertion made on the basis of direct knowledge of
the entire vector, while 'dug indicates direct knowledge of the result, but not of
the cause.
Person and Volition in the Auxiliary System
When the four verbs which we have been discussing are used as auxiliaries, two
new dimensions become relevant to the choice oiyodlyin or 'dug/red: the person
of the actor(s) and the volitional or nonvolitional nature of the verb. Ordinarily
verbs with nonfirst person subjects take the 'dug/red forms:3
3
Yin and yod are also used in yes/no questions with second person subject.
DeLancey: Evidentiality and Volitionality in Tibetan 207
(7) K'on las-ka byed-gi-'dug4
s/he work do -IMPF
'He's working/he works.'
(8) K'or) las-ka byed-gi-red.
s/he work do -FUT
'He'll work/be working.'
(9) K'OIJ na-gi-'dug.
s/he sick-IMPF
'He's sick.'
First person subjects, on the other hand, distinguish verbs which require some
degree of control on the part of the subject from those which are beyond control;
the former take the yodlyin auxiliaries, the latter the 'dug/red:
(10) Da las-ka byed-gi-yod.
I work do-IMPF
'I'm working.'
(11) Da na-gi-'dug.
I sick-IMPF
'I'm sick.'
(12) Da za-k'an la p'yin-pa-yin
restaurant in went-PERF.
T went into a restaurant.'
The old/new knowledge distinction remains relevant, however, so that auxiliary
yod, ordinarily occurring with first person, can occur with nonfirst in a sentence
like (13) (taken from Jin 1979):
(13) Da-ltar k'on slob-grwa nas bod-pa'i skad-yig bslab-gi-yod.
now s/he school from Tibet-GEN. language study-IMPF.
'He's now studying Tibetan at school.'
if the speaker knows that the subject has been doing so for a while.
Among the details of the distribution of yod and 'dug are a few apparently
anomalous patterns (several are exemplified in Jin 1979). One which will be of
4
The subjects of most transitive and active intransitive verbs are marked with ergative case in
perfective aspect, and sometimes in imperfective and future constructions (where it affects the
meaning of the clause in ways which I do not entirely understand). See Goldstein and Nornang
(1970), Chang and Chang (1980), and DeLancey (1982b, 1984) for available details. A preliminary
account of the semantic interaction between ergative case marking and volitionality as reflected in
choice of auxiliary is given in DeLancey (to appear).
208 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
interest in developing a model of the phenomena discussed here is the fact that
we find the yodlyin forms used with volitional verbs having nonfirst person
agents if the action is somehow directed toward first person. 'Directed toward
first person' includes transitives with first person patients and dative and mo-
tional verbs with first person goals:
(14) K'orj gis de la 'k'ryid-gi-yin.
he ERG. there to convey-FUT.
'He'll take [me] there.'
(15) K'orj gis bod nas yi-ge gtorj-gi-yod.
he ERG. Tibet from letter send-IMPF.
'He writes [me] letters from Tibet.'
(16) K'orj gis rja dbyin-ji'i skad bslab-gi-yod.
he ERG. I English language teach-IMPF
'He's teaching me English.'
(17) Dmag-mi 'di-r yorj-gi-yod.
soldier here-to come-IMPF.
'The soldier is coming this way. '
Volition and Causality
The distribution of the auxiliaries described here can be assimilated to the causal
chain representation suggested above. Let us first consider the first-person sub-
ject forms, where we find the auxiliaries marking a distinction between volitional
and nonvolitional verbs. The immediate causal origin of a volitional event is a
conscious decision on the part of the agent to perform an action; the difference
between volitional and nonvolitional events is precisely the presence or absence
of such a conscious decision leading to the actual event. Thus we can represent
any volitional act as a CAUSE-EFFECT vector parallel to (6), as in (18), where
INTENTION and REALIZATION represent subcategories of the more general catego-
ries of cause and effect:
(18) INTENTION »REALIZATION (ACT)
When, on the other hand, one enters into a state or commits an act involuntarily,
the causal origin of the vector is at least inaccessible to the actor's consciousness,
and often simply indescribable in principle. Thus the distinction between (10),
with a volitional verb and auxiliary yod, and (11), with a nonvolitional verb and
auxiliary 'dug, precisely parallels that between (5a) and (5b):
(10) Da las-ka byed-gi-yod.
I work do-IMPF.
'I'm working.'
DeLancey: Evidentiality and Volitionality in Tibetan 209
(11) Da na-gi-'dug.
I sick-IMPF.
'I'm sick.'
(5a) Gza-spen-ba la tsogs-'du yod.
Saturday LOC. meeting exist
'We're having a meeting Saturday (I was there when it was planned).'
(5b) Gza-spen-ba la tsogs-'du 'dug.
Saturday LOC. meeting exist
'There's a meeting on Saturday (I have reliable information to that effect).'
(10) and (5a), with yod, represent situations which the speaker is able to track
from their inception, while (11) and (5b), with 'dug, represent situations to
which the speaker has access only as the results of a causal chain begin to appear.
By describing these facts in terms of the speaker's perceptions we can predict
that the volitional/nonvolitional distinction will be neutralized in nonfirst person
subject sentences, which we have seen to be the case. For any situation which
does not involve a first person, a decision on the part of the actor is inaccessible
to the speaker's perception until such time as it is manifested by an observable
event. Thus any action by another person, volitional or not, is always 'new
knowledge' to the speaker.
We have seen one exception to the predicted pattern, that exemplified in (21-
24), in which nonfirst person actions with first person goal take the 'old knowl-
edge' auxiliaries. An analysis of this pattern provides strong confirmation for the
validity (as opposed to heuristic utility) of the vector representations which we
have been using, and is evidence for the place of such representations in a
general account of linguistic structure (other evidence along these lines is pre-
sented in DeLancey 1981a). Note that, as implied by my description in terms of
first person 'goal', all such events are representable as vectors with much more
concrete end points than those discussed hitherto:5
(16) K'orj gis rja dbyin-ji'i skad bslab-gi-yod.
he ERG. I English language teach-IMPF
'He's teaching me English.'
(19) he I
(English)
(17) Dmag-mi 'di-r yorj-gi-yod.
soldier here-to come-IMPF.
'The soldier is coming this way.'
5
These examples are taken from Jin 1979. Some Tibetan informants whom I have worked with
since writing this paper find these unacceptable, although their perfective equivalents do take the
first-person goal auxiliary byug.
210 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
(20) elsewhere •• here
(soldier)
We have seen that in terms of a vector representing volitionality/causality,
only the terminal point—the action manifested in the external world—is accessi-
ble to a speaker who is not also the actor. Thus if the choice of auxiliaries were
being determined in terms of such a vector in examples (14-17), we should
expect red/'dug rather than the yinlyod which occur. However, if we suppose
that in these cases the choice of auxiliary is made in terms of more concrete
vectors like (19) and (20), then we would predict exactly the pattern which we
find. For the entirety of this vector is accessible to the speaker: the overt act on
the part of the nonfirst person actor, as well as the goal, which is the speaker
himself or his location.
TRUE EVIDENTIAUTY: THE TIBETAN PERFECTIVE SYSTEM
In the perfective system Tibetan does mark a more typical evidential category,
rather than the old/new knowledge distinction. Person and volitionality are track-
ed separately. There are four perfective auxiliary forms: two, pa-yin and pa-red,
which use members of the auxiliary set we have been discussing, and two others,
byurj and sorj, which are etymologically derived from motion verbs. As we
might expect, the pa-yin form is associated with first-person volitional verbs:
(21a) ya-s yi-ge bri-pa-yin.
I-ERG. letter write-PERF.
'I wrote a letter.'
The pa-red form, however, does not have the range of use the 'dug/red forms in
the present and future, but rather has a clearly inferential sense (and thus, of
course, is restricted to nonfirst person). Thus sentence (21b)
(21b) K'oy gis yi-ge bri-pa-red.
s/he ERG. letter write-PERF
'S/he wrote a letter (it seems).'
reports a fact which the speaker knows only by inference, e.g., from the exis-
tence of the letter.
A sentence reporting firsthand knowledge of an event not involving the speak-
er uses the auxiliary soi), etymologically a perfective form of a verb meaning go,
as in (21c) and (22a). Note that, as in other tense/aspects, no volitionality
distinction is made for nonfirst person:
(21c) K'oy gis yi-ge bri-sor).
s/he ERG. letter write-PERF
'S/he wrote a letter (I saw it happen).'
DeLancey: Evidentiality and Volitionality in Tibetan 211
(22a) K'on na-son.
s/he sick-PERF
'S/he got sick.'
The final perfective auxiliary, byun, which is etymologically a perfective form of
a verb meaning 'to arrive, appear, come into view', marks first person nonvoli-
tional verbs:
(22b) na na-byun.
I sick-PERF
'I got sick.'
A comparison of the perfective with the nonpast system suggests an interest-
ing parallelism between the evidential and the old/new knowledge categories. Of
the four perfective forms the pa-yin first person volitional form has exactly the
same function as the yodlyin forms have in the other tense/aspects: as I have
already suggested, it marks an event which the speaker has tracked from its first
cause to fruition, and the only type of event for which such complete knowledge
is typically possible—a volitional event with first person actor. For present
purposes we will consider the son and byun forms as equivalent in marking an
event which the speaker knows first-hand only from the effect end of the cause-
effect vector.
Now the last perfective category, the pa-red form, marks an event of which
the speaker has no first-hand knowledge at all. But, of course, any statement
reflects first-hand knowledge of something; in this case it is of evidence of the
event—aspects of the world which exist because of the occurrence of the event.
This configuration can likewise be represented as a cause-effect vector, labeled
as in (23), of which the speaker has direct knowledge of only one end—that
labeled evidence:
(23) EVENT • EVIDENCE
EVENT and EVIDENCE, like intention and realization (example 18) are subcatego-
ries of cause and effect, thus our description of the evidential category is pre-
cisely parallel to our description of the choice of yodlyin or 'dug/red in other
constructions: the 'dug/red forms, including the evidential perfective pa-red,
mark a sentence as reporting an event of which the speaker has direct knowledge
only of the effect end of a cause-effect vector, while the yodlyin forms indicate
the speaker's direct apprehension of the entire cause-effect sequence.
OLD AND NEW KNOWLEDGE REVISITED
My argument so far can be summed up as follows: a number of seman-
tic/cognitive categories can be described in terms of a simple vector représenta-
212 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
tion, among them spatial SOURCE-GOAL (cf. examples 15 and 17), AGENT-
PATIENT (14), and various manifestations of cause and effect (e.g. intention-
realization and event-evidence). The linguistic relevance of this representation is
shown by the fact that the choice in Tibetan of yodlyin or 'dug/red is made in
terms of it. (Considerable evidence from other languages is described in De-
Lancey 1981a,b, 1982a).
The category which I have referred to as 'old/new knowledge' does not
obviously fit into this scheme (but cf. the discussion of Turkish mis in Aksu and
Slobin, this volume, and the brief discussion of their findings in DeLancey
1981a). The distribution of yodlyin and 'dug/red with respect to person which
we saw in the Tibetan examples (1-3) is consistent with my model since if I have
a hat, or am in a house, 1 presumably know how I came to have it or to be there,
while I cannot count on having such knowledge with respect to someone else.
That the category of person per se does not govern here either is easily
demonstrated:
(24a) ya'i k'arj la si-mi yod.
I-GEN. house LOC. cat exist
'There's a cat in my house.'
(24b) rja'i k'aq la si-mi 'dug.
I-GEN. house LOC. cat exist
'There's a cat in my house.'
In (24a) the cat is presumably mine, or one that for some reason I expect to find
in my house, while (24b) requires that I have no reason to expect there to be a cat
in my house—the most likely context for the sentence being if I come home and
unexpectedly find a strange cat wandering about. Thus it is not the presence of a
first person which requires yod, but rather a situation whose origins the speaker
understands.
However, cases such as (4a~b), which represent one of the major distinctions
marked by the yod vs. 'dug contrast, do not fit the model so neatly. The choice of
verb here has nothing to do with whether the speaker knows how or when yaks
came to be in Tibet, or how he knows, or anything of the sort. The distinction, as
I understand it, is rather whether or not the fact reported is an integrated part of
the speaker's knowledge of the world. 'New' knowledge is knowledge which has
yet to be assimilated into one's representation of the world, while 'old' knowl-
edge is that which has been made part of the consistent world view which all
human beings attempt to maintain. 'New' knowledge may require some modifi-
cation of one's world view (or of the newly acquired fact) in order to maintain
consistency. When we describe it in these terms, it becomes easy to see how this
semantic category could develop out of the various manifestations of the cause-
effect category. Events and situations fit into a consistent world view only to the
extent that they can be assigned causes, and the thought processes which are
DeLancey: Evidentiality and Volitionality in Tibetan 213
manifested in semantic categories such as inferentiality or evidentiality arise
from the need to assign cases to perceived events and situations. Thus an event or
situation whose causal origin is known fits into a rational world view without
difficulty, while one whose causal origin is not directly accessible to cognition
requires cognitive manipulation before it can be integrated.
There is, then, sufficient conceptual overlap between the old/new distinction
and evidentiality on the one hand, and between evidentiality and volitionality on
the other, to explain the overall pattern of use of the yodlyin and 'dug/red forms.
The use of the same grammatical distinction to encode the old/new knowledge
distinction as well as evidentiality and volitionality is consistent with, and counts
as evidence for, the model which I have suggested for the categories of eviden-
tiality and volitionality.
REFERENCES
Chang, Betty Shefts, and Kun Chang. 1980. Ergativity in spoken Tibetan. Bulletin of the Institute of
History and Philology, Academia Sinica 51.1:15-32.
DeLancey, Scott. 1981a. An interpretation of split ergativity and related patterns. Language
57.3:626-57.
1981b. Parameters of empathy. Journal of Linguistic Research 1.3:41-9.
1982a. Aspect, transitivity, and viewpoint. Tense-aspect: Between semantics and pragmat-
ics, ed. by Paul Hopper, pp. 167-83. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
1982b. Lhasa Tibetan: A case study in ergative typology. Journal of Linguistic Research
2.1:21-31.
1984. Transitivity and ergative case in Lhasa Tibetan. Proceedings of the tenth annual
meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society.
to appear. On active typology and the nature of agentivity. Typology of language struc-
tures: Nominatival, ergatival, activai, ed. by Frans Plank. Berlin: Mouton.
Goldstein, Melvyn. 1973. Modern Literary Tibetan. Urbana, IL: Center for Asian Studies, Univer-
sity of Illinois. (Occasional Papers of the Wolfenden Society on Tibeto-Burman Linguistics,
vol. 5.)
. , and Nawang Nornang. 1970. Modern Spoken Tibetan. Seattle: University of Washington
Press.
Jin, Peng. 1979. Lun Zang-yu Lasa-ko dungci-de tedian yu yufa jiegou-de guanxi. (On the relations
between the characteristics of the verb and syntactic structure in spoken Lhasa Tibetan).
Minzu Yuwen (Beijing) 1979.3:173-81.
THIRTEEN
The Nature and Origins of the
Akha Evidentials System*
Graham Thurgood
California State University, Fresno
INTRODUCTION'
In Akha, evidentiality is overtly and obligatorily expressed through an elaborate
system of sentence final particles which indicate 'the alleged source of informa-
tion about the narrated event' (Jakobson 1971:135). The following examples, all
reporting nonpast, nonexpected events, differ only in evidential marking (Egerod
1974:10):2
(1) No-màq àjbq-ây dï-é.
you-PL. he-OBJ. beat NONSENSORIAL
'You (plural) will beat him.'
(2) No-màq àjoq-ûy di-rjâ.
you-PL. he-OBJ. beat VISUAL
'You (plural) are beating him (I see it now).'
(3) No-màq àjoaq-ây di-nja.
you-PL. he-OBJ. beat NONVISUAL
'You (plural) are beating him (e.g. I guess so from the sound of beating).'
* This paper, a thoroughly revised and modified version of Thurgood (1981b), has benefited
enormously from the substantive and stylistic comments of Johanna Nichols. The Akha data comes
largely out of the works of Egerod and Hansson (especially 1974), supplemented by Lewis (1968).
The diachronic analysis is my own.
The speculative and somewhat preliminary nature of this paper is due in part to the fact that there
are no handbooks or etymological dictionaries or comparative grammars for the languages treated; for
my tentativeness 1 offer no apology. However, to those whose papers I have read and may to some
degree have misunderstood, 1 do apologize, with the hope that errors will be gently pointed out.
' This introduction owes a debt to Woodbury 1981 (this volume), which is also my source for the
reference to Jakobson ( 1957) 1971.
2
Akha forms are cited in the notation used in Egerod and Hansson (1974).
Thurgood: The Nature and Origins of the Akha Evidentials System 215
In the first example the speaker's source of evidence is nonsensory, while in the
second it is visual and in the third it is nonvisual sensory evidence, e.g. auditory
evidence.
The foundations for a historical look at the origins of the Akha evidentials are
found in the works of Egerod and Hansson, in which the synchronic system is
explicitly laid out. Using their synchronic work as a base, I will trace the
particles that make up the modern evidential system back to earlier etyma with
fuller meanings and more precise functions. I discuss paths of historical change
emphasizing evolution in the meanings and functions of these forms.
Akha Sentence Particles
The centrality of evidentiality to the elaborate system of Akha sentential particles
is implicit in the fact that after treating the ubiquitous -a separately, Egerod and
Hansson (1974:227-8) begin by dividing the sentential particles into two eviden-
tial sets: the 'sensorial' particles, which specify how the speaker's knowledge
was arrived at, and the 'nonsensorial' particles, which do not. Although other
manifestations of evidentiality can be found elsewhere in the grammar, these
sentential particles contain the essence and core of the system.
The Ubiquitous -a: Synchronic Grammar. The ubiquitous -a is the most
frequently used particle in Akha. Its functions include: subordinating one noun to
another in possessive, genitive, and other noun-modifying constructions; subor-
dinating verbs to nouns in relative clause constructions; marking the citation
form of the verb; and terminating utterances, most typically in the declarative
mood. As with many Akha particles, tense is marked tonally, with the low-toned
variant -a indicating past tense and the high-toned variant -é indicating non-past.
In Egerod and Hansson's analysis -à and -é are analyzed as differing only in
tense and tone, but Lewis' dictionary suggests an evidential distinction in its
three entries under -a:
-ê used in the following statements: declarative positive, declarative negative,
and in questions demanding an explanation (it tends to be a bit scoldy in the
latter)
-à this signifies STRONG ASSERTION THAT WHAT IS SAID IS TRUE lemphasis mine]
-à much the same as -a, but tends to be used more with: 1. negative statements 2.
about something in the past
It is the variant -à, marked as past tense by the low tone, that carries with it the
'strong assertion that what is said is true'. However, what Lewis saw as its strong
assertive flavor may be nothing more than a predictable consequence of two
pragmatic factors: the past tense marking and the LACK of an evidentiality mark-
er. Reference to events in the past has its own consequence: our knowledge of the
present and future is perceived as less certain than our knowledge of the past.
This would give a more 'assertive' flavor to any statement about the past. The
second pragmatic factor involves the very fact of qualification of a statement. It
216 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
is only statements which need attestation tnat are qualified; consequently, im-
plicit in a totally unqualified statement is a greater degree of certainty than in a
qualified one (cf. Bill is male with // is true that Bill is male). Thus, Lewis'
perception of an assertive flavor may have originated from a combination of our
perception of sureness about past events and the 'certainty' implicit in un-
qualified statements.
The Ubiquitous -a: Diachronic Origins. The Akha -a is reconstructed suc-
cessively at the Proto-Loloish (PL) level as *way3
(Bradley 1979:254), at the
Proto-Lolo-Burmese level as *wsy (=*wiy) (Thurgood 1977, 1981a, 1982), and
at the Proto-Sino-Tibetan level as *way (Thurgood 1982). Regular correspon-
dences within Lolo-Burmese (ibid.) demonstrate the cognacy of the -d of Akha
with the ve of Black Lahu, and the rgh5
/rgh3
of Fraser's Lisu (1922); the same
correspondences also indicate that the Burmish railrai of Written Burmese is
not cognate and reflects a distinct etymon (cf. Kachin we versus ré, rai). Outside
of Lolo-Burmese, reflexes are found in other Tibeto-Burman languages such as
Khaling and Sherpa, as well as in Karen and in Archaic Chinese. In several of
these languages the reflexes have an evidential meaning, but it does not seem
necessary to reconstruct the distinction back to the proto-stage.
For Proto-Loloish, Bradley (1979:254) describes the functions of *way3
thus:
There is one particle, probably of considerable antiquity, which occurs both after
nouns and after verbs. This particle, 'declarative'/'genitive' *way3
, occurs in
every language for which there are any significant data available on particles. Its
functions include the subordinating of one noun to another, . . . ; the subordinating
of verbs to nouns, in a relative-clause-type relationship; and the termination of an
utterance in a declarative mood.
This characterization is virtually identical to the functions of its modern Loloish
reflexes Black Lahu ve and Akha -9. However, in other languages it is a particle
other than the phonological cognate which is the functional counterpart of Black
Lahu ve and Akha -a. The phonologically cognate form in Fraser's Lisu is rgh3
/
rgh5
, but this is in no sense a functional counterpart to either particle. In the
tailtai of Written Burmese we have a functional counterpart which subordinates
one noun to another in possessive, genitive, and other noun-modifying construc-
tions; subordinates verbs to nouns in relative clause constructions; marks the
citation form of the verb; and terminates utterances, most typically in the de-
clarative mood; however, this is clearly not a phonological cognate. In short,
although a functional counterpart to the Akha -3 often exists, except in the case
of Black Lahu ve it is not the particle which is phonologically cognate. And, in
fact, this exemplifies the independence in the evolution of form and function
typified throughout Lolo-Burmese.
The Sentential Particles. Egerod and Hansson divide the remaining parti-
cles into sensorial and nonsensorial. These show category intersections with both
Thurgood: The Nature and Origins of the Akha Evidential« System 217
ense and a notion they describe as expected/nonexpected. With the sensorial
articles, their category labeled expected/nonexpected often shifts meaning to
rther related dimensions (1974:228):
expected nonexpected
nonsurprise surprise
all the time intermittently
luckily unfortunately
Common to the notions in the first column is predictability and hence good
fortune; common to the notions in the second column is unpredictability and
hence misfortune. The category labeled past/nonpast is also reported as some-
times undergoing a shift of meaning to indirect/direct. This may be a conse-
quence of the fact that the past but not the present is inaccessible to direct
knowledge.
The sensorial particles. The sensorial particles, which specify how the
speaker's knowledge was arrived at, distinguish between visual and nonvisual
sources of evidence.
The core of the four visual evidential particles (Table 1) is the morpheme na.
The two 'nonexpected' particles are variants of na marked by tone for tense, and
the two 'expected' particles are composite forms containing na i.e. na + -a >
nâa and nk + -â > //àâ.3
The na itself descends historically from the first person
singular pronoun found throughout Tibeto-Burman, PTB *na. In this specific
sentence-final environment, the Akha evidential sense of na arose from one of
two sources: either it came from the reinterpretation of a first person agreement
marker—a conclusion that in one sense simply begs the question of where it
ultimately came from—or it arose out of the semantics and syntax of embedding
a clause under *ya T plus a verb of perception or cognition, i.e. arose out of the
semantics and syntax of a structure like [sSOV]s + na + verb, which is the
Tibeto-Burman equivalent of a structure such as / see that... or / know
that. . .
The four nonvisual sensorial evidentials are divided into an 'expected' pair
mla and miâ and a 'nonexpected' pair nja and njà (Table 2). Like their visual
counterparts, the two 'expected' particles are composite forms i.e. mi + -a >
mia and mi + -â > miâ, with the tonal variation marking tense. The mi-
segment, the essence of the marker, has a direct cognate in Lisu mi4
, a con-
cessive particle found with both nouns and verbs in Lisu; in addition, it has
3
The a of the these two composite forms and of the two composite forms mia and miâ (discussed
below) is a sentence final particle which serves to mark the sentence as 'expected'. Ultimately, this a
appears to descend from the third person pronoun *a of Tibeto-Burman, but its path of development
from this origin to a sentence final particle remains unclear.
4
See footnote 3.
218 Evidentialiry Elsewhere In the World
Table 1. Akha Sensorial Evidential
Particles (Visual) (Adapted from Egerod and
Hansson 1974:227-8)
Expected Nonexpected
nonpast rjâa rjâ
past yàâ tjà
another possible cognate in the Burmese -mai- of the phrasal conjunction pei
maC(luC) 'although, in spite of . . .' (Okell 1969:381). The Lisu evidence sug-
gests the reconstruction of an earlier concessive for mi-, a particle that now
indicates a nonvisual source of evidence.
Putting aside discussion of nja and njâ for a moment, the modern distinction
between the four visual and the two nonvisual expected particles, which now
distinguish between visual and nonvisual sensorily attained knowledge, reflects
an earlier distinction between knowledge obtained through personal experience,
the forms with na from *na T , and what was assumed to be true, the forms with
mi- from a concessive particle.
The final pair of particles nja and njâ, both monomorphemic, are related to
the auxiliary verb nja 'able to' and to the sentence-final particle njâ 'will'. In
fact, the initial member of this pair, nja, indicating a nonpast, nonexpected
event, is indistinguishable from nja 'able to'; not only does nja lack the antici-
pated high tone associated elsewhere with the nonpast and not only is it pho-
nologically identical to nja 'able to', but the identity is also supported by the
semantics. A comparison with the pragmatics of English can, used here not to
argue for the semantics of Akha but only as a more familiar parallel, illustrates
the point about semantics: an assertion that something 'can be' implies both that
it is the result of nonvisual knowledge and unexpected, njâ, the second member
of the pair, is a tonal variant of nja 'able to' with the expected low tone
designating past tense. The semantics again support this analysis: an assertion
that something 'could be' implies both that it is the result of nonvisual knowl-
edge and that it is unexpected. In the case of both members of this opposition, the
Table 2. Akha Sensorial Evidential
Particles (Nonvisual) (Adapted from Egerod
and Hansson 1974:227-8)
Expected Nonexpected
nonpast mfa nja
past mîâ njâ
Thurgood: The Nature and Origins of the Akha Evidential System 219
Table 3. Akha Nonsensorial Particles (Positive and Negative)
(Adapted from Egerod and Hansson 1974:227-8)
Expected
X Y
Nonexpected
X Y
positive:
nonpast ma me é • â
past
negative: (ma . . . 'hot')
ma me e a
nonpast ma . . . ma ma . . me ma . ma . . . a
past ma . . a
earlier, fuller, more precise meanings have given way to less restricted, more
abstract evidential meanings.5
The nonsensorial particles. The nonsensorial particles, which do not indi-
cate the source of evidence for a statement, also show category intersections with
both tense and the notion of expected/nonexpected. There is, in addition, a
person distinction shown in Table 3 and indicated by the labels x and Y. For
example, in a declarative statement, if the subject is first person, the pertinent
particle from set x is used; otherwise, the particle is chosen from set Y. (Exam-
ples from Egerod 1974: 8, 10, 13.)
(4) Dâ nà-ârj di-è.
I you-OBJ. beat-è (X)
'I beat you.'
(5) No-màq àjbq-ârj di-me.
you-PL. he-OBJ. beat-wé (Y)
'Yes, you (PL.) beat him.'
(6) Akhy tseq-à.
dog bark-à (Y)
'The dog barked. '
On the other hand, for a question, it is with the second person subjects that the
pertinent particle from set x is used; otherwise, the particle is chosen from set
Y.6
(Examples from Egerod 1974:12.)
5
Related to this pair is njé, glossed as 'will' by Egerod and Hansson and described as indicating
one's immediate intention or purpose by Lewis. This njâ, which functions as a marker of predications
of the future, carries the high tone associated elsewhere with the nonpast. Intriguingly, but inexplica-
bly, this particle is cognate to the topic marker in Lisu that marks new topics.
6
Egerod and Hansson also note the existence of a third pattern for 'indirect reference' in which
the particle is chosen from set X for third person subjects but from set Y otherwise.
220 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
(7) No rjà-àr) di-é-16.
you I-OBJ. beat = é (X) = QUESTION
'Will you beat me?'
(8) Na-màq nb-ârj di-â-lô.
I-PL. you-OBJ. beat = â (Y) = QUESTION
'Will we (exclusive) beat you?'
(9) Ajbq nb-ârj dï-â-lô.
he you-OBJ. beat = à (Y) = QUESTION
'Will he beat you?'
The above Akha person distinction is paralleled in distantly related Sherpa
(Woodbury this volume, p. 192, note 3):
The first person vs. nonfirst person distinction is widespread in Sherpa, but the
term 'first person' is something of a misnomer. In the interrogative all so-called
first person phenomena are associated with second person. This is because second
person forms in questions anticipate the use of first person in the answer . . .
As a consequence of this, questions carry an evidential value which is appropri-
ate to the anticipated response.
This person distinction is the remnant of much earlier co-occurrence con-
straints within the Proto-Tibeto-Burman verbal paradigm. An examination of the
paired particles -e(x) and -«(Y) illustrates this well. This restriction of Akha -e to
first person is paralled by a similar restriction on its Tibetan cognate yin and on
its Sherpa cognate 'in.7
On the other hand, the particle paired with -e is -a,
whose person restrictions relate to its ultimate origin as a third person pronoun.8
Akha me also shows traces of earlier co-occurrence constraints. Throughout
Tibeto-Burman me and its cognates favor nonfirst person environments. Howev-
er, the particle ma—paired with me—is part of a different system; it originated
as a full verb. The person restrictions on its Akha distribution are the result of its
pairing with me, a particle with its own co-occurrence restrictions, rather than
being the result of inherited constraints. In any case, the person distinction found
with the nonsensorial particles is a residue of co-occurrence constraints present in
the verbal paradigm of Proto-Tibeto-Burman and has had little effect on the
semantics of the modern Akha particles.
The morphemes ma and me are the core of the 'expected' nonsensorial parti-
cles. Contra Thurgood 1981b, the particle ma is related to the Akha full verb ma
'be real, true' and the adverb ma ma 'really, surely', an origin which fits nicely
with particle's meaning 'I know by experience that this is true' (Inga-Lill Hans-
7
In addition, the Sherpa cognate has an evidential function (Woodbury 1981:11 ): 'in 'entails that
the speaker is unsure of the proposition, and found out perhaps by hearsay'.
8
This PTB *a appears to be the same a found in the composite sensorial particles tja-a and mi-a
(see note 3).
Thurgood: The Nature and Origins of the Akha Evidentials System 221
son, personal communication). The low-toned variant ma is due to the same
historical mechanism that imposed a tonally-marked past/nonpast distinction on
all the Akha particles. The other member of the expected, nonsensorial pair is
me, which developed out of a copula and is still realized as such in the mè of
Karen. Within Lolo-Burmese, it has a number of excellent cognates, including
the sentence-final aspectual particle of Burmese mailmai 'future, or as-
sumptive' (Okell 1969:354). The assumptive aspect is compatible with the mod-
ern Akha evidential meaning of nonsensorial, expected.
The morphemes e and a are the core of the 'nonexpected' nonsensorial parti-
cles. The e is, as mentioned above, cognate with the copulas yin of Tibetan and
'in of Sherpa. This appears to have represented a 'speculative' future contrasting
with the 'assumptive' future of me. This distinction might be illustrated by the
contrast between He could go to Fresno tomorrow and He is going to Fresno
tomorrow. The other member of this pair is a. Etymologically its various man-
ifestations are reflexes of the Proto-Tibeto-Burman third person pronoun *a,
which subsequently developed into a relatively neutral sentence-final particle
(see the person distinction discussed above and note 3). Any additional meaning
it may have acquired is due more to its opposition to e than to any originally
inherent meaning of its own.
The Quotative
The quotative is the last evidential particle to be discussed in this paper. It is
illustrated in the following examples (from Egerod 1974:10):
(10) N>màq àjbq-ârj di-me.
you-PL. he-OBJ. beat = me
'You (PL.) will beat me.'
(11) No-màq àjbq-ân di-me djé.
you-PL. he-OBJ. beat = me QUOT.
'He told me that your group will beat him.'
The Akha quotative is cognate with Phunoi ce, Bisu kyiltsi, and Mpi tçe1
. It
derives from a verb meaning 'to speak' and can be used either to report indirect
knowledge or to indicate the hearsay nature of the knowledge.
CONCLUSION
The Akha evidential particles evolved from a variety of sources with a number of
different functions: (a) Full verbs: the quotative djé descended from a full verb
meaning 'to speak, say', under which full clauses were originally embedded, ma
came from another full verb meaning 'be true', (b) Modal nja originated as a
modal verb meaning 'be able', (c) Copulas: Both me and e evolved from copulas
with future meanings, the first an 'assumptive' future and the second a 'spec-
222 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
ulative' future, (d) Particle: mi- derives from a concessive particle, (e) Pronouns:
tja came from a first person pronoun, which was original either an agreement
marker or part of a matrix sentence under which clauses were embedded. It may
also have gone through a stage in which it was a sentence-final particle, a started
as a third person pronoun and went through a stage in which it was a neutral
sentence-final particle.9
Despite the variety of sources and despite the gaps in our knowledge of
historical developments, an outline has emerged. Through the reconstruction and
examination of earlier forms and functions, a general picture of the evolution of
the Akha evidentials has been drawn, tracing them from their ultimate origins in
the grammatical and semantic roots present in the language family as far back as
Proto-Tibeto-Burman through to their development into the complex system of
the modern language.
REFERENCES
Bradley, David. 1979. Proto-Loloish. London and Malmô: Curzon Press.
Egerod, S0ren. 1974. Further notes on Akha sentence particles. Seventh International Sino-Tibetan
Conference, Atlanta.
Egerod, S0ren and Inga-Lill Hansson. 1974. An Akha conversation on death and funeral. Acta
Orientalia 36.225-84.
Fraser, J. O. 1922. Handbook of the Lisu (Yawyin) language. Rangoon: Government Printing
Office.
Jakobson, Roman. (1957) 1971. Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. Selected Writings
II, 130-47. The Hague: Mouton.
Lewis, Paul. 1968. Akha-English dictionary. (Data paper no. 70, Southeast Asia Program, Cornell.)
Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Okell, John. 1969. A reference grammar of colloquial Burmese. Two volumes. London: Oxford
University Press.
Thurgood, Graham. 1977. Lisu and Proto-Lolo-Burmese. Acta Orientalia 38.147-207.
1981a. Notes on the origins of Burmese creaky tone. Monumenta Serindica no. 9. Institute
for the Study of Languages and Cultures of Asia and Africa. Tokyo.
1981b. The historical development of the Akha evidentials system. BLS 7.295-302.
1982. The Sino-Tibetan copula *way. Cahier de linguistique Asie orientale 11.1:65-82.
Woodbury, Anthony C. 1981. Evidentiality in Sherpa. Manuscript.
9
With the exception of djé, a still not understood historical development has imposed a tonal
split on particles, doubling their number. Each now has a low tone variant designating past tense and
a high tone variant designating nonpast.
FOURTEEN
Evidentials in Japanese
Haruo Aoki*
University of California, Berkeley
This paper discusses three areas of meaning associated with Japanese evidentials.
The first area involves expressions which deal with sensation and make a syntac-
tic distinction between the description of a sensation experienced by the speaker
and a sensation experienced by a nonspeaker, the latter description being marked
by gar. The second area of meaning is expressed by no or n, which makes
nonspecific evidential statements, sometimes from restricted or inaccessible in-
formation. The third area is expressed by a group of forms which make hearsay
or inferential statements, such as soo, yoo, and rasi meaning 'they say', 'ap-
pear', or 'seem'. It is this last area which Japanese linguists have traditionally
treated as the area of Japanese evidentials. ' However, evidentials in Japanese can
be considered to range over three types of meaning: the speaker communicates
(a) that he has, of necessity, only indirect evidence, as in gar, (b) that he has
generally valid evidence as in the case of no or n, and (c) that he cannot say that
he is in complete possession of information because of the nature of the evi-
dence, as in the cases of hearsay and inferential forms.
Japanese evidentials are not grammaticized and belong to various word or
morpheme classes: morphologically gar is a verb, no, n, soo, and yoo are nouns,
and rasi is an adjective.
The organization of this paper is as follows: first, I will discuss four types of
evidentials which occur in the verb phrase; next, evidential adverbial phrases;
then, evidentials and politeness; and last, the historical development of eviden-
tials.
* In the preparation of this paper I received many valuable comments from Noriko Akacuka,
Patricia Clancy, Kiici Iitoyo, Huzio Minami, Hideo Teramura and have particularly benefited from
thoughtful comments from Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols. Any errors that remain are my own.
1
For example, Martin labeled soo as 'the' evidential in Japanese (1975:991).
223
224 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
VERBAL PHRASES
Four types of verb phrase evidentials will be discussed. They are (a) descriptions
of sensation, (b) no or n, (c) hearsay, and (d) inference.
Inferences Regarding Feelings of Others
Sensations such as being hot, cold, or lonely are expressed in Japanese sentences
such as (1), (2), and (3) when the experiencer is the speaker:
(1) Atu -i.
hot -NP.2
'I am hot.'
(2) Samu -i.
cold -NP.
'I am cold.'
(3) Sabisi -i.
lonely -NP.
'I am lonely.'
However, sentences (4), (5), and (6) in which the experiencer is a third person
are ungrammatical:
(4) *Kare wa atu -i.
he T.M.3 hot -NP.
'He is hot.'
(5) *Kare wa samu -i.
he T.M. cold -NP.
'He is cold.'
(6) *Kare wa sabisi -i.
he T.M. lonely -NP.
'He is lonely.'
The sentences (4-6) may be made grammatical by addition of gar and te-i-ru.
Atu 'hot' is a state. The addition of gar turns it into a nonstate. Te-i-ru is added to
turn it back into a state:
(7) Kare wa atu -gatteiru.4
he T.M. hot
'He is hot.'
2
Np = nonpast suffix. The form is -ru after a verb and -i after an adjective.
3
T.M. = topic marker.
4
gatteiru = gar + -te (gerundive suffix) + -i verb stem meaning 'be' or 'exist') + -ru (nonpast
suffix).
Aoki: Evidentials in Japanese 225
(8) Kare wa samu -gatteiru.
'He is cold.'
(9) Kare wa sabisi -gatteiru.
'He is lonely'
The speaker's wishes and desires are expressed in sentences such as (10). When
the wishing is done by a third person, addition of gar and te-i-ru produces
grammatical sentences as in (12). When the sentence ends in an adjective, which
has the suffix -i in the nonpast tense, the object is marked by ga as in (10).5
Otherwise, the object is marked by o as in (12):
(10) Watasi wa mizu ga nom ita -i.
I T.M. water S.M.« drink DESID. -NP.
'I want to drink water. '
(11) *Kare wa mizu ga nom ita -i.
he T.M. water S.M. drink DESID. -NP.
'He wants to drink water.'
(12) Kare wa mizu o nom ita -gatteiru.
he T.M. water O.M.7
drink -DESID.
'He wants to drink water. '
Sentences like (1-3) and (10) occur without gar since they directly express the
first person experiencer's sensations and desires. The testimony of the first
person experiencer is considered self-evident. The sentences involving third
person experiencers are ungrammatical without gar, as in (11). Gar converts
inner sensations and desires into a verb which expresses externally observable
changes. The verb derived by the addition of gar receives the further addition of
te-i-ru to express a state. Gar has the function of expressing inference rather than
direct experience, from which a further inference can be made about person,
which is often left unexpressed in Japanese. For example, without gar, a hearer
infers that (13) is about the speaker and that (14), with gar, is about a third
person:
(13) Atu -i.
hot -NP.
'I am hot.'
(14) Atu-gatteiru
5
Kuno gives a more detailed list of sentence types in which objects are marked by ga (1973:90-
6
S.M. = subject marker.
7
O.M. = object marker.
226 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
hot
'He is hot.'
Commenting on gar Kuno (1973:84) states that it adds the meaning of 'to show a
sign of, behave like -ing'. Martin's words for the meaning of gar are 'display
symptoms of being . . . ' (1975:359). For this reason, use of gar to express one's
own inner feeling is superfluous, making a sentence like (15) unacceptably
circuitous:
(15) *Watasi wa atu -gatteiru.
*Watasi wa atu
I T.M. hot
'I am hot.'
The ungrammatical (15) becomes grammatical when there is a shift in time away
from the time of speaking:
(16) Sono koro watasi wa taihen sabisi-gattei-ta.
that time I T.M. very lonely -PAST
'I was very lonely at that time.'
(17) So nar -eba watasi wa taihen saisi-garu8
-daroo.
so become -if I T.M. very lonely -CONJ.
'If that happened I would be very lonely.'
Gar, then, might be called an indirect evidence marker used to describe
internal feelings and sensations of an experiencer removed in time and space.
(18)
(19)
*Kare wa atu -i.
he T.M. hot -NP.
'He is hot.'
*Kare wa samu -i.
he T.M. cold -NP.
'He is cold.'
*Kare wa sabisi -i.
he T.M. lonely -NP,
'He is lonely.'
(20)
Sentences such as (18), (19), and (20) without gar become grammatical in
exceptional cases when the speaker is not subject to the usual physiological
constraints, such as having a direct neural connection to sensation in someone
else's body. For example, a narrator may adopt a position which enables him to
process sensations as though he has privileged direct access to the sensing areas
which are inaccessible under ordinary circumstances. Kuroda called a style pro-
8
garu = gar + -ru (nonpast suffix).
Aoki: Evidential in Japanese 227
duced by such an omniscient narrator a nonreportive style (1973:381). Sentences
such as (18), (19), and (20) are examples of those which are acceptable in the
nonreportive style.
On the other hand, if one wishes to ask about the way (s)he appears to others,
(21) and (22) are possible:
(21) Watasi wa atu-gatteiru yooni mie -ru ka?
I T.M. hot COMP. appear -NP. Q.P.9
'Do I look hot?'
(22) Kare ni wa watasi ga atu-gatteiru yooni mie
him to T.M. I S.M. hot COMP. appear
-ru rasi -i.
-NP. seem -NP.
'He seems to think I am showing a sign of being hot. '
Besides the basic evidential meaning, gar also means 'to act in a certain way, not
necessarily with good reason.' For example (7), repeated here as (23), also has a
second meaning:
(23) Kare wa atu -gatteiru.
'He is hot.' or
'He shows signs of being hot (but he may not be hot at all).'
In other words, gar indicates that what is being presented is inferred from
evidence, and not necessarily a fact. The questionable status of the inference
expressed by gar may be seen in sentences such as (24):
(24) Sonnani atu -garu na.
so much hot NEG.-IMP.
'Do not act so hot (it cannot be that hot).'
Mimetic words in Japanese are of three types: auditory (phonomimes), visual
(phenomimes), and affective (psychomimes) (Hirose 1981:3). Concerning the
third type Kindaici states that there is a predominance of adverbs which describe
irritation or disturbing feelings (1978:19). In addition, there are adverbs which
describe different kinds of pain: cikuciku 'pricking', gangan 'pounding (of head-
ache)', sikusiku 'throbbing (of toothache and stomachache)' and zukizuki 'throb-
bing (of headache and surface wound)'. Both irritation and pain are sensations
which can be reported first hand only by the feeler, or the first-person.
Pain may be perceived as something a person feels directly, as in ita-i 'I am in
pain', or as sensation caused by a part of the body, as in itam-u 'it hurts'. In the
first case ita is an adjective stem followed by the nonpast adjectival suffix-;'; in
9
Q.P. = question particle.
228 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
the latter itam is a verb stem followed by the nonpast verb suffix-«. Pain of the
first person is expressed as in 25:
(25) Zukizuki ita -i.
throbbing pain -NP.
'I have a throbbing pain.'
(26) *Kare wa zukizuki ita -gatteiru.
he T.M. throbbing pain
'He has a throbbing pain.'
However, when one wishes to describe a painful condition of a non-first-person,
use of mimetic adverbs as in (26) is strange, probably due to zukuzuki being a
word used in direct-evidence statements and gar being an indirect-evidence
marker.10
First-person irritation is expressed by a combination of a mimetic word and a
verb such as sum 'do': iraira sum. For a nonfirst-person, no or rasi, discussed
below, is used: iraira site iru rasii 'he/she seems to be irritated'.
No or N as Markers of Fact
An evidential no, or more informal n, may be used to state that the speaker is
convinced that for some reason what is ordinarily directly unknowable is nev-
ertheless true.
We saw earlier that a sentence such as (27) was ungrammatical and that the
use of gar made it grammatical:
(27) *Kare wa atu -i.
he T.M. hot -NP.
'He is hot.'
It is also possible to use no or n as in (28), which means 'it is a fact that he is
hot'.
(28) Kare wa atu -i no da.
he T.M. hot -NP. be
'I know that he is hot. It is a fact that he is hot.'
10
A non-first-person's painful condition is expressed by use of no or rasi, to be discussed later:
(i) Kitto zukizuki itam-u no da yo.
surely throbbing hurt-NP be FP
'He/she must have a throbbing pain.'
(ii) zukizuki itam-u rasi-i.
throbbing hurt-NP appear-NP
'He/she seems to have a throbbing pain.'
Aoki: Evidential in Japanese 229
(29) Ase o kai -teiru kara kare wa atu
sweat O.M. perspire -PROG, because he T.M. hot
-(' no da.
-NP. be
'Because he is sweating I know that he is hot. '
For this reason sentences with no or n are often used as the main clause of a
complex sentence in which the subordinate clause indicates reasons, as in (29).
Grammatically no or n nominalizes the preceding phrase. Semantically it re-
moves the statement from the realm of a particular experience and makes it into
a timeless object. The concept thereby becomes nonspecific and detached.
We saw that pain-related mimetic words occur with adjectives such as ita 'be
painful'. There are a large number of mimetic words which are not related to
pain. They do not cooccur with adjectives such as ita but cooccur with the
semantically colorless verb sum 'do'. (30) is an example:
(30) Mukamuka sum.
'I feel sick to my stomach. I have a nauseated feeling.'
When we want to say 'he feels sick to his stomach', however, (31) is as ungram-
matical as (27).n
(31) *Kare wa mukamuka suru.12
he T.M. sick do
'He feels sick.'
Other mimetic words which are found in direct evidence statements are those
expressive (a) of an itching sensation, such as muzumuzu, uzuuzu; (b) of an
irritating or frustrating sensation, such as ziriziri, iraira; (c) of a fainting sensa-
tion, such as kurakura; (d) of depressed feelings, such as musyakusya,
kusyakusya; (e) of relief from anxiety: hotto; (f) of pleasant and serene feelings,
1
' A similar phenomenon is also found in Korean:
(i) na nin sok i nikilnikil ha -ta.
I T.M. inside S.M. nauseating do -NP.
'I feel sick to my stomach.'
However, the following sentence is ungrammatical.
(ii) *ki saram in sok i nikilnikil ha -ta.
this man T.M. inside S.M. nauseating do -NP.
'He feels sick to his stomach.'
Again, (31) is not ungrammatical in Kuroda's nonreportive style.
230 Evidenriality Elsewhere in the World
such as sabasaba, sappari; (g) of fear or chill sending a shiver through one, as in
zokuzoku; (h) of palpitation from excitement or fear: dokidoki (about oneself) and
harahara (about someone else); (i) of comforting warmth—hokahoka,
pokapoka; and (j) of a sudden feeling of sympathy and caring for someone, such
as horotto. In all these cases gar cannot be used since it is suffixed only to an
adjectival stem. It is no or n which makes sentences dealing with the sensation of
a nonfirst person grammatical, as in:
(32) Kare wa mukamuka si -teiru no da.
he T.M. sick do -PROG. be
'It is a fact that he feels sick to his stomach. '
In contrast with gar, which is an indirect evidence marker, no or n is a marker
which converts a statement for which ordinarily no direct knowledge is possible
into a statement which is asserted as a fact.
Hearsay
Hearsay evidence is expressed most commonly by the use of a special nomi-
nalizer soo followed by a copula da as in (33). There are also the more collo-
quial-fte as in (34), and the archaic and literary gena. There are another dozen or
so alternative expressions.
(33) Ame ga hutteiru -soo da.13
rain S.M. fall
'They say it is raining.'
(34) Ame ga hutteiru -tte.
'They say it is raining.'
-soo occurs with verbs as in (35) and (36), with adjectives as in (37) and (38),
and with noun predication sentences (39) and (40):
(35) Ame ga hutta (=hur + -ta) -soo da.
rain S.M. fall-PAST
'They say it rained.'
(36) Ame ga hur -u -soo da.
rain S.M. fall -NP.
'They say it is going to rain.'
(37) Kaze ga cuyokatta (cuyo + -katta) -soo da.
wind S.M. strong-PAST
'They say the wind was strong.'
13
hutteiru = hur + -te (gerundive suffix) + -<' (verb stem meaning 'be' or 'exist') + -ru (nonpast
suffix).
Aoki: Evidentials in Japanese 231
(38) Kaze ga cuyo -i -soo da
wind S.M. strong -NP.
'They say the wind is strong.'
(39) Kare wa daigakusei da
he T.M. university student be
'They say he was a university student.'
(40) Kare wa daigakusei da
he T.M. university student be
'They say he is a university student.'
Phonologically the hearsay-wo is high pitched in the first mora, and the high
pitch stays when the preceding verbals are atonic; when the preceding verbals are
tonic, -soo is pronounced with a low pitch throughout.
Properly/ Evidential Forms
There are three inferential forms which may be translated 'seem', 'look like',
'appear', or left untranslated. Of these-joo da is used when the speaker has some
visible, tangible, or audible evidence collected through his own senses to make
an inference. Sentence (41) from Takasebune by Oogai Mori bears this out:
(41) Soreni omae no yoosu o mi -reba doomo sima
further you P.M.14
behavior O.M. see -when at all island
e iku no o kunisi -te-i -nai -yoo da.
to go NOM. O.M. be troubled -PROG. -NEG.
'Besides, as I watch you I get the feeling that you are not at all bothered by
the prospect of exile.'
The second is rasi -i, which is used when the evidence is circumstantial or
gathered through sources other than one's own senses. Tamako Kasioka
(1980:172) points out that (42) is inappropriate when the speaker is looking at the
blue sky.
(42) Hare te-i-ru rasi -i.
clear result
'It seems to be clear. '
(42) is appropriate when the speaker is unable to see the sky directly, but can
make a guess about the weather condition on the basis of brightness of the room
and so on. Kasioka's pair of (43) and (44) clarifies the difference between yoo da
and rasi -i:
-tta -soo da.
-PAST
-soo da.
P.M. = possessive marker.
232 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
(43) Kono kusuri wa yoku kiku yoo da.
this medicine T.M. well work
'I infer from my own experience that this medicine works well.'
(44) Kono kusuri wa yoku kiku rasi -i.
this medicine T.M. well work
'I infer from what I heard that this medicine works well.'
The third is soo da, which differs from yoo da and rasi -i in two respects. Soo
da does not express inference about what occurred in the past. For example, (45)
and (46) are grammatical but (47) is not:
(45) Kare wa soo si -ta yoo da.
he T.M. so do -PAST
'I infer from my own experience that he did so.'
(46) Kare wa soo si -ta rasi -i.
he T.M. so do -PAST.
'I infer from what I heard that he did so.'
(47) *Kare wa soo si -ta soo da.
'I infer that he did so.'
Second, soo da is used when the speaker believes in what he is making an
inference about. For example, (48) is ungrammatical:
(48) *Ame ga hurt soo da ga hur -ru to wa
rain S.M. fall but fall -NP. Q.M.i' T.M.
omowa -na -i.
think -NEG. -NP.
'It seems that it is going to rain but I don't think it will.'
In contrast to (49) and (50), (51) is used when the speaker judges that the
event is imminent:
(49) Ame ga hur -u yoo da.
rain S.M. fall -NP.
'It seems that it is going to rain (for example observing increasingly dark
skies).'
(50) Ame ga hur -u rasi -i.
rain S.M. fall -NP.
'It seems that it is going to rain (for example, overhearing talking about
rain).'
15
Q.M. = quotative marker. For this special use of the quotative marker,
(1975:1009-1010).
see Martin
Aoki: Evidentials in Japanese 233
(51) Ame ga hurt soo da.
rain S.M. fall
'It looks like it is going to rain (any minute).'
Phonologically the inferential soo is high pitched throughout when the preced-
ing verbals are atonic; when the preceding verbals are tonic, soo is high pitched
in the first mora and low in the second. The phonological contrasts of forms with
hearsay and inferential soo may be seen in the following examples:
Stems + Hearsay soo da + Inferential soo da
yob (atonic) yo\buso\oda yo
yom (tonic) ~yô]musooda yo
Compared to the soo da which expresses hearsay, the inferential soo da is much
more restricted in terms of the verbals which precede it. The inferential soo da
occurs with only one tense form and does not occur with noun predication
sentences. For this reason the inferential soo da precedes the hearsay soo da:
(52) Asita wa gohan ga tabe-rare soo^ da soo da.
tomorrow T.M. rice S.M. eat -possible INF. hearsay
'I hear that he is likely to be able to have rice tomorrow.'
Yoo da, rasi-i, and soo da have similar restrictions in first person present tense:
(53) Kare wa hatarai -teiru.
he T.M. work -PROG.
'He is working.'
(54) Kare wa hatarai -teiru yoo da.
'It seems that he is working.'
(55) Watasi wa hatarai -teiru.
'I am working.'
(56) *Watasi wa hatarai -teiru yoo da.
'I seem to be working.'
Yoo da and rasi-i occur after a past tense marker not only with a third person
subject but also with a first person subject:
(57) Sono koro watasi wa mazimeni hatarai -te-i -ta
that time I T.M. seriously work -PROG. -PAST
yoo da.
'I seem to have been working seriously at that time.'
bisooda
miso\ oda
234 Evidenriality Elsewhere in the World
Here again, as in the case of gar above, the evidential meaning is clearest in the
present tense.
ADVERBIAL PHRASES
A subclass of adverbs dealing with the speaker's attitude toward the truth value
of a statement was recognized by Yosio Yamada in 1908, and is not unlike what
Quirk, Greenbaum, et al. call disjuncts (1972:508). The examples of adverbs of
this subclass cited by Yamada (1908:503ff.) are the classical forms kedasi 'prob-
ably', osaosa 'in any way', and yomo 'ever (with negative)'.
Modern Japanese forms expressing conviction include matigainaku 'un-
mistakably', utqgainaku 'undoubtedly', tasika{ni) 'certainly', kanarazu 'infalli-
bly', sadamesi 'presumably', kitto and sazo 'surely'. Forms expressing some
degree of doubt are tabun, osoraku, dooyara 'probably'. Those expressing a
greater degree of doubt are mosikasuruto, hyottosite 'possibly'. Adverbs such as
masaka 'surely (not)' and the somewhat formal yomoya '(not) by any possibility'
express negative conviction.
At one extreme there are the adverbs which express the speaker's certainty
about the statement which is being made. These do not necessarily require overt
evidential elements in the verb system. (58) and (59) are examples:
(58) Matigainaku kare wa hon o yon-de-iru.
unmistakably he T.M. book O.M. read-PROG.
'I am sure he is reading the book.'
(59) Anata no okamisan wa kitto yakimotiyaki
you P.M. wife T.M. certainly jealous
nanda yo.
be F.P.16
'Your wife must be the jealous type.' (from Tooson Simazaki, Yoakemae)
Further down the continuum there are adverbs indicating lesser degrees of cer-
tainty. These often require that the verb system indicate a corresponding degree
of certainty.
(60) Dooyara kare wa hon o yon-de-iru rasi -i.
likely he T.M. book O.M. read-PROG.
'He seems to be reading the book.'
(61), which lacks the inferential rasi-i, sounds strange:
16
F.P. =finalparticle.
Aoki: Evidential in Japanese 235
(61) *Dooyara kare wa hon o yon -de-iru.
'He is likely to be reading a book. '
The adverb masaka requires both inferential and negative elements. For this
reason (62) and (63) are ungrammatical.
(62) *Masaka kare wa sono hon o yon-de-iru.
'He could not possibly be reading the book. '
(63) *Masaka kare wa sono hon o yon-de-iru rasi-i.
'He could not possibly be reading the book.'
Instead, either a combination of conjectural and negative suffixes separately, as
in (64), or a lexicalized mai, a combination of inferential and negative, as in
(65), is required:
(64) Masaka kare wa sono hon o yonde (wa) i-nai daroo.
-NEC CONJ.
'I doubt that he is reading the book.'
(65) Masaka kare wa sono hon o yonde (wa) i-mai.
'I doubt that he is reading the book. '
The correspondence between the adverbs and the verb suffixes is so predictable
that an answer consisting of just the adverb (66A) is sufficient in a discourse to
provide the full evidential information expected of a question such as (66Q):
(66Q) Kare wa sono hon o yonde-iru ka.
'Is he reading the book?'
(66A) Masaka.
'I doubt it.'
Here (66A) is an equivalent of (64) or (65).
EVIDENT1ALS AND POLITENESS
Most of the evidential expressions can be used to make polite sentences.
-Gar
-Gar is used with sensation and desiderative adjectives, and has the meaning of
'to show a sign of in reference to a person other than the speaker. For this reason
sentences such as (67) are used to express the speaker's appreciation of a gift by
including a third person for whom gar can be used to indicate that (s)he would
show externally observable appreciation of it.
236 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
(67) Kitto haha mo uresi -gar-imasu.
surely mother too be glad -POLITE-SUFFIX
'I am sure mother will be happy too.'
No, or n
This is a despecifying evidential, and is used to minimize the speaker's involve-
ment. For example, it may be used to tone down the harshness of a request (68),
to soften the expression of desire (69), or to cite a statement as something for
which the speaker cannot be held responsible (70):
(68) Satoo-san ga soo yuu no^ desu.
Mr. Sato S.M. so say POLITE COP.
'Mr. Sato says so (I am not requesting this, he is).'
(69) Watasi mo mairi -tai rw desu.
I too go -DESID. POLITE COP.
T would like to come along also.'
(70) Kore ga kitnari na no desu.
this S.M. rule COP. POLITE COP.
'This is the rule.'
The hearsay soo.
Soo is often used when the speaker does not wish to reveal the source of
information and wants to minimize the problems which result from such knowl-
edge. For example, (71) is less direct and less harsh than (72):
(71) Yamada wa sir -anai soo da.
Yamada T.M. know -NEC
'They say that Yamada does not know.'
(72) Satoo ga Yamada wa sir -anai to
Sato S.M. Yamada T.M. know -NEC QM
itta.
said (iw 'say' + ta 'past')
'Sato said that Yamada doesn't know.'
The inferential forms may be used when one has definite information but
wants to produce a softer impact as in:
(73) Wakai koibito ga deki -ta rosi -L
young lover S.M. come to have -PAST
'(S)he now has a young lover.'
Note that the original meaning of rasi -i adds the implication that the speaker is
not directly responsible for the news but came across indirect clues. Yoo is also
used to muffle a pointed statement:
Aoki: Evidentials in Japanese 237
(74) Dokoka de omenikakat -ta yoo desu ne.
somewhere at meet -PAST F.P.
'I met you somewhere, didn't I?'
HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT
Of the evidential forms, gar and rasi-i are native Japanese words. Gar has been
known since the eleventh century. The earliest record of rasii is found in the
eighth century in the form of rasi. In the written language, after a hiatus which
starts in the twelfth century, it reappears in the eighteenth century with the
modern suffix -i and in the form rasi -i.
As for soo and yoo, Masaru Nagano, Kanehiko Yosida, and Daizi Siraisi are
among those who consider them to be Chinese loans. However, there is a chance
that at least yoo is not a loan in the usual sense. There was a native Japanese form
sama which meant 'appearance' and there is a chance that sama was translated
into Chinese yang of comparable meaning. Yang, when it undergoes regular
sound changes in Japanese, after the intermediate stages of [yaû], [yau], [yo-]
would become [yo-] or yoo. The source of soo is explained in at least two ways:
one is that it derives from Chinese xiang which, among other things, means
'shape', 'appearance', 'aspect' (Yosida 1971:404), and the other is that it de-
rives from Japanese sama (Oono 1978:131). If soo is from Chinese xiang, then
both soo and yoo provide examples of indigenous linguistic elements translated
into prestigious foreign languages.
Background for a more systematic treatment of Japanese evidentials will be
created as studies such as those in this volume become available. In the mean-
time it seemed useful to point out that there is no consensus as to what Japanese
evidentials are; to adopt a scope wider than, for example, Martin's; and to
suggest that, though some of the morphemes involved in evidential statements
appear to be Chinese on the surface, they might actually be indigenous. I hope
other studies based on new theories, others presenting suggestive typological and
genetic comparisons, and still others exploring biological and psycho-linguistic
significance will be forthcoming. Meanwhile this is a nondefinitive look at what
might be called Japanese evidentials.
REFERENCES
Hirose, Masayosi. 1981. Japanese and English comparative lexicology. The role of Japanese 'mim-
etic adverbs'. Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, Berkeley.
Kasioka, Tamako. 1980. Yoo da to rasi-i ni kansuru iti koosatu. Nihongo kyooiku 41.169-78.
Kindaici, Haruhiko. 1978. Giongo gitaigo kaisecu. Giongo gitaigo ziten, ed. by Curuko Asano.
Tokyo: Kadokawa syoten.
Kuno, Susumu. 1973. The structure of the Japanese language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kuroda, S.-Y. 1973. Where epistemology, style, and grammar meet: a case study from Japanese. A
238 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
Festschrift for Morris Halle, ed. by Stephen R. Anderson and Paul Kiparsky, 377-91. New
York, NY: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.
Martin, Samuel E. 1975. A reference grammar of Japanese. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Nagano, Masaru, 1964. Yoo da. Kokubungaku 9.13.177-9.
Oono, Susumu. 1978. Nihongo no bunpoo o kangaeru. Tokyo: Iwanami Syoten.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik. 1972. A grammar of
contemporary English. New York and London: Seminar Press.
Siraisi, Daizi. 1969. Soo da. Bunpoo 1.8.50-1.
Yamada, Yosio. 1908. Nihon bunpooron. Tokyo: Hoobunkan.
Yosida, Kanehiko. 1971. Gendaigo zyodoosi no siteki kenkyuu. Tokyo. Meizi Syoin.
FIFTEEN
The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin
Russian
Johanna Nichols
University of California, Berkeley
One of the recurrent concerns in the study of evidentiaHty is the problem of
grammaticalization: which evidential meanings are most prone to become incor-
porated into inflectional paradigms of verbs? which are most likely to become
fused into obligatory paradigmatic oppositions, so that the speaker must decide
and mark, for every predicate or every sentence or every paragraph, whether or
not it carries the given meaning? The end result of such work will be a cross-
linguistic imphcational ranking of evidential meanings, giving at least some
attention to category intersections with tense-aspect and person. For such an
endeavor, languages with minimal grammatical systems provide crucial evidence
for the first entries on the imphcational hierarchy. We have seen examples of
minimal evidential systems embedded in well-developed tense-aspect systems,
in the form of Turkish (Aksu and Slobin, this volume) and Balkan Slavic (Fried-
man, this volume). These languages probably give us good evidence for first-
ranked evidential oppositions, although we cannot be sure that the information
they yield is information about evidentiaHty alone rather than about category
intersections: do they tell us about the least marked evidential meaning, or about
the first evidential meaning to arise from among tense-aspect meanings?
Chinese pidgin Russian gives every indication of providing the crucial exam-
ple. It is a pidgin, thus its system of verbal categories is minimal by definition.
Most important, its pared-down system of verbal inflection consists of a single
opposition, namely one of evidentiaHty. In what follows I will show that the
presence of this evidentiaHty opposition may be due to substratal influence and
therefore cannot be taken at face value as proof that evidentiaHty is the universal
unmarked verbal category. Nor can this single instance prove that the particular
evidential meaning coded in Chinese pidgin Russian is universally unmarked.
What it does show is that a language can survive, and fairly sophisticated com-
munication can be undertaken, on the basis of a single evidential opposition
239
240 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
alone; and that, relative to the fully developed tense-aspect systems of the source
languages, evidentiality was viewed as indispensable by at least one speaker.
Furthermore, comparison to other languages does support the hierarchization of
this particular evidential category as cross-linguistically unmarked among
evidentials.
BACKGROUND
Chinese pidgin Russian arose when the Russians and the Chinese began regular
trading in 1768 in Kjaxta, located on the present Russian-Mongolian border
south of Lake Baikal. The little information we have on the structure and origin
of this Kjaxta variant indicates that it was heavily Chinese-influenced and that
much of its original impetus may have come from the Chinese side.1
The pidgin
continued to be used for almost two centuries, spreading eastward to Manchuria
and the Far East as the Russians built railroads to Vladivostok and Xabarovsk. In
its twentieth-century form the pidgin bears greater resemblance to Russian than
to Chinese. There are two sources of information on the twentieth-century
pidgin: it is remembered by the (mostly emigrated) remnants of the Russian
community of Harbin (Manchuria); and it is well attested in ethnographic, geo­
graphic, and popularizing travel literature from the Russian Far East. This liter­
ature shows that the native population of Sikhote-Alin area and the Ussuri and
Amur basins used (or were perceived as using) a variant of the pidgin when
speaking with Russians. The native population spoke Tungusic languages, of
which primarily Nanai and also Udehe and Oroch underlie attestations of the
pidgin.2
It is this Far Eastern variant, which I call the Ussuri dialect, that will concern
us here. Only the Ussuri dialect grammaticalizes evidentiality. (The others occa­
sionally use optional tense distinctions, marked with tense forms of an auxiliary
verb 'be'.) The Ussuri dialect is attested in a number of sources of varying length
and quality. The corpus for this study comes almost entirely from the works of
the ethnographer-explorer-writer V. K. Arsen'ev, who depicts his Tungusic
guides as speaking the pidgin in their interactions with him. It is a corpus of some
three hundred utterances of up to several sentences in length, which yields a
consistent, high-quality, and apparently faithful rendition of the pidgin.
1
Sources of information on the Kjaxta dialect are Čerepanov (1853), Timkovski (1827) (frag­
mentary passages only), Maksimov (1864;485ff). The first two are reproduced by Neumann (1966),
who does not mention the Maksimov texts. Despite evidence that the pidgin arose as the result of
imperfect learning of Russian by Chinese traders, there is also indication of an active Russian role in
its formation: it bears similarities to (White Sea) Russenorsk that can only be considered genetic; and
it can be viewed as just one extreme of a continuum of simplified, foreign, and broken Russian
depicted in literature. For the Russenorsk connection see Fox MS; for the organic connection to
literary stereotypes see Nichols (1980).
2
These are members of the Amur subgroup of Tungusic, a branch of Manchu-Tungus. The
family extends from the Urals through Siberia to the Pacific coast and Sakhalin island. It is a substock
of Altaic.
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 241
The corpus presents some problems of interpretation which must be men-
tioned at the outset. First, the pidgin lacks inflection other than for evidentiality,
although readers who know Russian will observe that forms in the examples
reflect Russian inflected forms. The pidgin simply uses one or another frozen
inflectional form, rather than an artificial bare stem, as its unvarying lexeme.
(Nouns usually reflect Russian nominatives, although masculines often reflect
the genitive, probably because of its vocalic ending. Verbs often reflect imper-
atives, but some are past or present indicatives.) Second, all recorders of the
pidgin, including Arsen'ev, lapse into correct Russian on occasion. The begin-
nings of utterances tend to be more nearly pure pidgin than the final phrases,
which show more lapses into Russian. The more oblique a syntactic relation, the
greater the likelihood that it will be marked by correct use of Russian cases.
A third problem is the question of just whose linguistic competence the corpus
represents. Arsen'ev depicts only Tungusic speakers, never Russians or Chinese,
as speaking the pidgin. Yet he himself must have known the pidgin, or he could
not have recorded it as accurately as he did. (His corpus differs markedly from
the literary stereotypes produced by writers who do not know the pigdin, and
from ordinary broken Russian as portrayed in literature set in Siberia. Some of
these stereotypes are surveyed in Nichols 1980.) Does the corpus then represent
Arsen'ev's competence, or that of his guides? The lapses into standard Russian
are clearly Arsen'ev's. The clear Tungusic influence would seem to argue that it
is the Tungusic speakers' competence that is depicted; but Arsen'ev himself did
know at least Udehe and Oroch well enough to make himself understood in those
languages when necessary. That the pidgin is never put into the mouths of
Chinese speakers is evidently due to the fact that Arsen'ev knew Chinese and
used that language with its speakers in preference to the pidgin; this indicates that
Arsen'ev portrays speech acts from his own perspective, and thus indirectly
suggests that the pidgin represents his own competence. The most compelling
evidence in favor of regarding the pidgin utterances as reflecting Tungusic speak-
ers' competence comes from the occasional misunderstandings inadvertently
recorded by Arsen'ev himself. For instance, the Ussurian dialect uses the form
ljudi, standard Russian 'people', to substantivize adjectives: bol'šoj 'big',
bol'šoj ljudi 'the/a big one'; xudoj 'bad',xudoj ljudi 'bad one'. On nearly every
occasion when a pidgin speaker uses one of these constructions with ljudi,
Arsen'ev misunderstands the utterance as referring to people. When it becomes
clear that the pidgin speaker is not referring to a person, Arsen'ev then muses (in
print) on the anthropomorphizing world view of the natives.3
The fact that
'E.g. UK 20-21:
. . . —Boars!—1 shouted. . . .
—Odin ljudi šibko bol'šoj,—whispered Dersu.
one SUBST. very big
'One of them is really big' [Arsen'ev understands: 'One man/guy is really big'.]
242 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
Arsen'ev can fail to understand a point of grammar and yet record it correctly,
speaks in favor of interpreting the entire corpus as reflecting the actual compe-
tence of those who are portrayed as speaking the pidgin.
Another problem of interpretation is presented by the Tungusic influence
mentioned above. Since for the great part of the corpus, and for all examples
cited here, the speaker is Arsen'ev's Nanai guide Dersu Uzala, I will restrict this
comparison to Nanai. Aside from the evidentiality, Nanai influence on the Ussuri
pidgin dialect makes itself felt in three areas. One is the consistent sov word
order and the consequent preference for postverbal auxiliaries (in contrast, the
pidgin of the Harbin Russian community uses svo order and preverbal auxiliaries
for the most part). This is especially conspicuous in the Ussuri use of postverbal,
tonic netu (in standard Russian, 'there isn't', 'there aren't') for verbal negation,
in contrast to Harbin dialect preverbal, atonic ne, used as in standard Russian:
(1) Ussuri: ponimaj netu
understand NEG.
'don't/doesn't/didn't understand'
(2) Harbin: ne ponimaj
NEG understand
'don't/doesn't/didn't understand'
Another Nanai influence is lexical: in Dersu's speech a number of proper and
common nouns, especially animal and divinity names, are Tungusic.4
The third
area of influence is two distinctly Nanai functions of whole-word reduplication.
In the Ussuri dialect, as in Nanai, reduplication forms indefinites from inter-
rogatives, e.g.:
I did not understand what 'person' he was talking about, and looked at him, disbeliev-
ing. . . . The boar Dersu had killed turned out to be a two-year-old. I asked him why he had
not shot the mature male.
—Ego staryj ljudi. . . . Ego xudo kušaj, mjaso malo-malo paxnet.
him old SUBST. him bad eat meat sort of smells
'He was old. . . . They're bad to eat; their meat sort of smells.'
I was surprised that Dersu called the boars 'people'. I asked him about it. [Dersu engages in
some folk etymology on the substantivizer. ]
Then it became clear to me. This primitive man's world view was animistic, therefore he
anthropomorphized all his surroundings.
4
Not all of the lexical material is identifiably Nanai. For instance, 'star', recorded twice as uikta,
is like Udehe, and unlike Nanai, in lacking intervocalic -s- (Nanai dialects have osikta, etc.). It is
impossible to tell whether this represents Udehe influence on Dersu's dialect of Nanai (he was from a
peripheral area adjacent to Udehe, and seems to have also spoken Udehe) or Arsen'ev's spelling of a
Nanai word in its Udehe form (since he knew Udehe but apparently not Nanai).
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 243
čego 'what'
kakoj 'what (kind)', 'which'
kakoj ljudi 'who', 'what' (with substantivizer ljudi)
čego-čego 'something, anything'
kakoj-kakoj 'some, any'
kakoj-kakoj ljudi 'someone, anyone', 'something, anything'
Also as in Nanai, reduplication forms distributives from various quantifiers, e.g.
odin 'one', odin-odin 'one each'.
Reduplication of either sort is unknown to pidgin speakers from Manchuria.
(For reduplication in Nanai see Avrorin 1959:219, 273-6.) In view of such
pervasive grammatical and lexical influences, it is possible that the evidentiality
in the Ussuri pidgin dialect reflects substratal influence rather than simply reduc­
tion of Chinese and Russian grammar.
I submit that the most conservative approach to all the problems of interpreta­
tion is—having mentioned them for the sake of honesty—to disregard them.
Regardless of whose competence the corpus reflects, and regardless of whether
the evidentiality is substratal or a natural result of reduction, the corpus is
language, and the system is a genuinely minimal one.
INFLECTIONAL EVIDENTIALITY
Evidentiality in the pidgin is signaled with postverbal est' ,5
which is existential,
locative, or emphatic 'is/are' in standard Russian (never used as a verbal auxilia­
ry or inflectional marker), and corresponds typologically to Tungusic forms of
'be' used postverbally as various auxiliaries, including that forming the Tungusic
inferential evidential.6
The particular meaning added by est' depends on the
lexical aspect class of the verb stem and the tense of the clause, both of which
must therefore be briefly described.
Lexical aspect of pidgin verbs is not overtly marked. Like most pidgins and
basal créoles,7
the Ussurian pidgin divides its lexical stock of verbs into two
classes which I term PUNCTUAL and NON-PUNCTUAL. Examples are:
punctual: najdi 'find; arrive'
pomiraj 'die'
pojmaj 'catch'
končaj 'finish'
5
est' is pronounced /jesi/ in Harbin. Since Arsen'ev uses standard Russian spellings, it is never
clear what pronunciation underlies them.
6
The evidentials of Tungusic are not always mentioned in grammars, and are virtually never
described as evidentials. My analysis of their form and meaning is based on text examples.
7
In the framework of Bickerton (1975) (who uses the terms 'stative' and 'non-stative' where I
use, respectively, 'non-punctual' and 'punctual').
244 Evidentially Elsewhere in the World
nacinaj 'start'
ponimaj8
'understand'
non-punctual: xodi 'come, go; walk'
pribavljaj 'add, increase; rise (of water)'
rabotaj 'work'
posmotri 'look; see'
dumaj 'think'
kriči 'cry, call; make noise'
These lexical classes have nothing to do with the inflectional aspect of standard
Russian. Each class contains forms derived from Russian perfectives and forms
derived from Russian imperfectives. (Etymologically perfective punctuals are
najdi, pomiraj, pojmaj; the others are from imperfectives. Of the non-punctuals,
posmotri is etymologically perfective, the others imperfective.) The classifica­
tion of verbs as punctual vs. non-punctual is not based on form or etymology,
then. It is based on two criteria: the array of tense-aspect meanings that the verb
has in text examples, and the kind of evidential meaning given to it by addition of
est'. The most conspicuous tense-aspect patterning is the fact that the punctual
verbs never have present-tense meaning, while the non-punctual ones frequently
do. The intersection with evidentiality is described below.
The punctual verbs tend to denote changes of state, culminative processes,
and bounded events or processes; the non-punctuals denote states, durative ac­
tions, non-culminative processes. This is then a (presumably reduced,
pidginized) two-way system corresponding to the more elaborate lexical aspect
classes proposed by e.g. Vendler (1967). While the opposition here is not com­
parable to the Russian inflectional opposition of perfective and imperfective
aspect, it is comparable to the system of lexical classes that must be established
before the semantic effects of Russian lexical aspect can be described (see
Forsyth 1970:46 ff.).
Tense, with one exception, is never overtly marked but must be inferred from
context. The sole exception is the verb 'be', which has tense forms as in standard
Russian:
past: byl
present: ( 0 (copula)
\ est' (existential)
future: budet
Example (3) shows the existence of two verb classes. It contains two instances
of the nonpunctual (-P) verb xodi 'come, go' and one instance of punctual (+P)
8
It is interesting that this punctual main verb 'understand' is homophonous with the auxiliary
'know how', which is non-punctual.
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 245
najdi 'find; come to, arrive'. The tense and evidentiality context is one and the
same: Dersu describes a planned journey in terms of departures and arrivals; he
knows the route and predicts with confidence. In this uniform context the non-
punctual verbs have no auxiliary and the punctual verb has the auxiliary est'. The
formal difference in the same semantic context demonstrates the existence of the
two covert lexical classes.
(3) Zavtra moja prjamo xodi.
tomorrow I straight go (-P)
Cetyre solnce xodi,
four sun go
Daubixe naidi est', potom
come (+P) AUX. then
Ulaxe xodi . . .
go (-P)
'Tomorrow I'LL GO straight (east). After four days' walk I'LL COME to the
Daubixe, the I'LL COME to the Ulaxe . . .' (UK 46)
Evidentiality is the only arguably inflectional category in the pidgin. It is the
only category for which the speaker must decide, in every utterance, whether to
mark it or not. (This definition takes obligatoriness, and hence the Boasian
notion of grammatical meaning as explicated by Jakobson [1944] 1971, as
criterial for inflectional status.) The pidgin makes use of a number of other ad-
verbal elements which may be described as auxiliaries. These display word-order
preferences which are suggestive of position class and thus of formal gram-
maticalization; but their content is clearly lexical. There are three position types:
Strictly postverbal:
xocu 'want to'
končaj 'finish'9
netu (negation)
Postverbal or preverbal:
ponimaj 'know how'
mogu can, may
načinaj 'start'9
Clause-initial:
nado 'must, have to' (imperative)
možno 'may; possible'
Negation is with postverbal netu for most verbs. A small set of verbs takes
preverbal ne: auxiliaries mogu 'can, may', nado 'have to', xocu 'want to' and
main verbs znaju 'know' and videl 'see'. Some examples of verb phrases:
9
That 'finish' is strictly postverbal while 'start' may also be preverbal is suspicious, and
Probably due to accidental skewing in the corpus.
246 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
xodi
go
'goes', 'went', 'will come', etc
xodi netu
go NEG.
'isn't coming', 'won't go', etc.
xodi končaj
go finish
'stopped walking', 'passed by', 'had gone'
nacinaj kriči
start cry
'will start to make noise'
posmotri ne mogu
look/see NEG. can
'can't see'
ubej ne xocu
kill NEG. want
'don't want to kill'
rybu lovi ponimaj tože netu
fish catch know how also NEG.
'don't know how to fish, either'
The marker est' of inflectional evidentiality patterns formally with the strictly
postverbal auxiliaries:
(11) xodi est'
go EVID.
'Here he comes', 'There he goes'
(12) pomiraj est'
die EVID.
'must have died'
The only possible cooccurrence among auxiliaries is that the negative may cooc-
cur with others (as in (8), (9), (10), above). The negative does not, however,
occur together with the evidential est'. This is undoubtedly due not only to
semantic incompatibility but to formal incompatibility: the productive negative
auxiliary netu is simply the negative of the copula and existential verb est' which
is itself used as the evidential auxiliary.
The evidential marker est' shows another distributional constraint: it occurs in
main clauses only. Non-main clauses (one hesitates to make a claim for actual
syntactic subordination) are mostly if, since, and when clauses; these can contain
lexical auxiliaries but never contain evidential est'.
The evidential marker est' contributes uniformly evidential meaning to the
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 247
verb stem, although the exact character of the evidential meaning depends on the
lexical aspect class of the verb and the tense meaning of the sentence. For
punctual verbs est' is attested in both past and future tense contexts (recall that
punctual verbs cannot have present-tense meanings). For nonpunctual verbs, it
occurs only in the present tense. Est', then, shows complementary distribution
by tense. This distribution is shown graphically below; the varying meanings
contributed by est' are shown by the labels 'inferential', 'immediate', and 'pre­
dictive'. These terms will be defined for each tense-aspect category below.
Functions of evidential marker est' :
Punctual Nonpunctual
Past inferential (3rd pers.)
immediate (1st pers.) (0)a
Present —b
immediate
Future predictive (0)
"(0): the tense-aspect category does occur and does appear to bear evidential meanings, but no
such evidential meanings are marked with est'.
b
—: the tense-aspect category does not occur.
One clear generalization can be made: est' is never used for events which are
witnessed, i.e. seen by speaker and/or hearer. It is used for nonwitnessed events
which are asserted on the basis of evidence.
For punctual verbs in the past tense, est' contributes one of two evidential
meanings, depending on the person of the subject. If the subject is third person, a
verb marked with est' has INFERENTIAL meaning: the speaker perceives the
evidence and infers the event or action that produced the evidence. (13-14) are a
minimal pair. (13) is a neutral, nonevidential statement: Dersu reports what
happened to his family long ago. There is no evidence and no inference: he
knows the facts because he witnessed them directly.
(13) Vse davno pomiraj . . . Ospa vse ljudi končaj.
all long ago die small-pox all people kill
'They've all long since died. Smallpox killed everyone.' (UK 12)
(14) A-a! Ljudi pomiraj est'.
person die
'Oh! The man's died.' '. . . must have died.' (DU 183)
(14) is inferential. Arsen'ev's group is following the tracks of an obviously sick
person. As they round a bend, they startle two crows and Dersu utters (14). The
presence of carrion-eating birds is the evidence from which he infers that the man
has died. And, in fact, a few paces later the group comes on the man's corpse.
248 Evidentialily Elsewhere in the World
With first-person subjects, past punctuals with est' do not have inferential
meaning—predictably, since (for the psychological verbs which are the only
examples for this category in the corpus) a speaker need not infer but knows his
own psychological states. Rather, est' contributes IMMEDIATE meaning: the
speaker uses it in a more or less spontaneous reaction to a new, salient, often
surprising event just as it happens. (15-16) are a minimal pair for immediate
meaning. (15) is nonimmediate: Dersu reports a past instance of coming to
understand. (16) is immediate: he sees a railroad for the first time and suddenly
now understands what he has heard people talking about on past occasions.
(15) Segodnja odin ljudi posmotri, togda vse ponimaj.
today one person see then all understand
'Today when I saw (that) one man, I UNDERSTOOD everything.' '. . . then
everything BECAME CLEAR' (UK 161)
(16) Hm! Moja èto slyxal. Krugom ljudi govori.
I this heard around people talk
Teper' ponimaj est'.
now understand
'Hm! I've heard of this [railroad]. Everybody has been talking about it. Now
I UNDERSTAND.' '. . . now everything's CLEAR' (UK 45)
Further examples are the two instances of najdi 'find' used in the sense 'smell'
with est'. Both have first-person subjects.
(17) Moja zapax dyma najdi est'.
I odor smoke find
'I smell smoke!' (UK 282)
Actually, third-person examples may also be said to have immediate mean-
ing, since all of them reflect not just inference but a spontaneous reaction to just-
perceived evidence. This is further discussed below.
In the future tense, punctual verbs with est' have what I will call PREDICTIVE
force: the speaker confidently infers a future event from present evidence or
intentionality plus understanding of the forces of nature. (3), cited above (p. 245),
is an example of a predictive future: Dersu is about to set off on a journey, knows
the route and the location of major landforms, and predicts arrivals and depar-
tures. (3) shows that the predictive future of punctual verbs is marked with est'.
(It also shows that the predictive future of nonpunctuals is not overtly marked.)
(18-19) show other predictive future punctuals. In (18), Dersu predicts, from his
knowledge of the route and the group's rate of progress, that they will soon come
to a cabin. In (19) he predicts, on the basis of his (to Arsen'ev) uncanny
understanding of nature, a change in weather.
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 249
(18) Naša skoro balagan najdi est'.
we soon cabin find
'We're ABOUT TO COME to a cabin.' (UK 169, UK 16)
(19) Moja dumaj, polovina solnca končaj, drugoj veter najdi est'.
I think half sun finish other wind find
'I'd say by mid-day the wind WILL CHANGE.' (UK 37)
(20) shows a different punctual verb in the future. It is the rutting season for deer,
and Dersu and Arsen'ev are listening to the bucks bellowing. Dersu points out
that one voice is actually that of a Siberian tiger, who decoys the herd to make a
kill. Based on this knowledge, he predicts a kill for the tiger.
(20) Izjubr teper' ponimaj netu, kokoj ljudi kriči, Amba skoro
deer now understand NEG. who cry tiger soon
matka pojmaj est'.
doe catch
'The deer don't know who (what animal) that is bellowing, and the tiger
WILL CATCH himself a doe pretty soon.' (UK 219)
(21) provides a subtle minimal contrast. The verb is punctual; it names an
imminent event, yet lacks est'. This is not a predictive future in the technical
sense defined above: the speaker does not predict a particular future event, but
simply warns of an oncoming event. The utterance is based not on evidence and
understanding of it, which is the shared factor in the above examples, but on the
fact that all participants see an ice floe bearing down on them. This is then a
witnessed future.
(21) Led skoro lodku lomaj! Skorej nado xodi!
ice soon boat break right now have to go
'The ice is about to wreck the boat! Hurry up!' (UK 270)
(18-21) show that the predictive future is the converse of the inferential past:
in both cases the speaker reasons from evidence and knowledge of it to a
particular event. Est' is not used in promises or threats, to judge from the single
example of each in the corpus. This shows that knowledge, inference, and
evidence, and not just certaintly or vouching, are the relevant semantic param­
eters for use of est'.
Non-punctual verbs in the past tense never take est'. (22) is an example of a
past non-punctual which could be said to have inferential meaning: Dersu looks
at some tracks and infers past events from them. Yet the verb does not have est'.
250 Evidentialiry Elsewhere in the World
(22) Davno odin ljudi xodi.
long ago one person go
'A long time ago one person went by here.' (UK 16)
In the present tense, non-punctual verbs take est' for immediate meaning.
(23-24) are a minimal pair. In (23) Dersu, backtracking briefly, comes on fresh
tiger tracks and reports that they are being followed by a tiger. This example does
not have immediate meaning, and there is no est'.
(23) Posmotri, kapitan, èto Amba. Ego szadi naša xodi.
look captain this tiger he behind us go
'Look, captain, this is a tiger. He's FOLLOWING US.' (UK 16)
(24) Xodi est'.
go
'Here he comes.' ' There, he's walking.' 'Hear that? He's coming.'
(DU 43)
But in (24) there is immediate reaction. It is night; the group hears a large animal
approaching, then silence. As stealthy footsteps resume, Dersu utters (24). This
is immediate reaction to an event or, more specifically, to the perceptual evi-
dence directly connected with it. Again, the evidence plays a crucial role and,
since the tense is present, the meaning which triggers est' is immediate.
(22-23) share another generalization: they have to do with reading tracks.
There are eleven examples which have to do with tracking, at least three of them
punctual. None of them contain evidential est', despite the fact that reading
tracks clearly involves crucial use of evidence. But the tracking examples differ
from the est'-marked immédiates and inferentials in that the latter are spon-
taneous, immediate reactions to evidence while the tracking examples involve
systematic reading of evidence, often given as a lesson in track-reading or as an
explanation of how the tracker knows what happened. Such examples, then,
show that immediacy is also involved in the inferential function of est'. (They
also suggest that the evidential is appropriate when the inference is presupposed,
but not when it is asserted, in that the tracking examples more or less assert the
inference and lack est'.)
(25-26) are another minimal pair. (25), with est', has immediate meaning.
Dersu, standing at a riverbank as a storm approaches, notices the high water and
remarks on it.
(25) Voda pribavljaj est'.
water rise
'The water's RISING.' (UK 42)
(26) Kamni smotrju: voda pribavljaj.
rocks look water rise
'I'm looking at the rocks: the water's RISING.' (DU 47)
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 251
(26) lacks est' and lacks the immediate force. Dersu utters (26) during a rain-
storm, when asked where he is going. This is not an immediate reaction on initial
perception of a situation: Dersu has been aware for some time that a flood might
take place (although the context does not make it clear whether the water is
actually high yet).10
Future nonpunctuals lack est' even when their meaning is predictive, as
shown in (3).
In summary, est' contributes evidential meaning to punctual verbs in both of
the tenses which they take, and to non-punctuals in the present tense. The nature
of the evidential meaning is contingent on tense and person. Non-punctuals
appear to have evidential meanings in the past and future, but those meanings are
never marked with est'.
There are only three apparent counterexamples to this analysis, none of them
compelling. One involves est' used for contrastive stress. Another, (27), shows
est' with a punctual verb which is not inferential:
(27) 7am pomiraj est' moja ïena i moi deti.
there die my wife and my children
'There's where my wife and children died.' 'My wife and children died
there.' (UK 178)
Dersu says this while pointing to the place in question. There is no inference;
there is no evidence, the event happened long ago, and he knows it because he
witnessed it. This example differs from (13) above, which has the same verb
(without est') referring to the same event, in that (27) contains the place adver-
bial tarn 'there', is spoken in view of the place and as an expression of the grief
triggered by seeing it (while (13) is spoken in answer to a question), and lacks the
time adverbial davno 'long ago' found in (13). In (27) there is some kind of
reaction to evidence, but the sense is neither immediate nor inferential as those
terms have been defined here.
(28) may be a counterexample to the claim that evidentials occur only in main
clauses.
(28) Net, moja xoroso ponimaj, tebe ubej est'.
No I well understand you kill
'No, I understood perfectly well that you (had) killed him.' (UK 185)
10
Since all examples of pribavljaj 'increase, add; rise (water)' are ambiguous as to aspect, is
possible that it is punctual. If so, the interpretation of (25-26) must be adjusted. (25) then represents
the deviant construction shown in (17); (26) means 'the water may rise' and has no est' because it is
conjecture rather than prediction. I prefer the analysis as nonpunctual because immediate meaning
!s more plausible for (25) than inferential, and because context following (26) makes it clear that, if it
's to be interpreted as a future, it is a prediction: a flood does materialize, and Dersu's advance
warning saves the group.
252 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
It is a counterexample if the clause tebe ubej est' 'you('ve) killed (him)' is
subordinated to ponimaj 'understand/understood'. Since there is no clear evi-
dence for subordination in the pidgin, the clause moja xoroso ponimaj 'I under-
stood (perfectly) well' can be regarded either as the main clause with a subordi-
nate or as a parenthetical or paratactic introductory clause. Leaving aside the
insoluble question of syntactic subordination, (28) may be described as showing
semantic subordination: the evidential is used in a statement of reported in-
ference, rather than, as with previous examples, in the actual statement of in-
ference. The context for (28) is this: Arsen'ev has shot and killed a boar far from
camp. As he is dressing it Dersu appears and offers to help carry the meat.
Arsen'ev is amazed: how did Dersu know from the sound of gunshots alone that
he had killed the animal rather than missed it? Dersu utters (28) and explains how
the spacing between gunshots indicated a kill rather than a miss or wounding.
When hearing the gunshots Dersu could have uttered (29):
(29) *Ubej est'.
kill
'He's killed (him/it/them/something/. . . ), 'He got him'
(The asterisk marks nonattestation.)
(28), with shifted pronoun and introductory or main-clause ponimaj 'under-
stand/understood', simply reports (29), but preserves its evidential.
In summary, both (27) and (28) support the connection of est' to evidentiality,
although they depart from the usual grammatical patterning of evidentiality in the
pidgin.
LEXICAL EVIDENTIALITY
The corpus contains examples of two lexical means of indicating inference. One
is moja dumaj 'I'd say; in my opinion', which renders standard Russian po-
moemu as in (19). Moja dumaj in this sense is attested in all three dialects of the
pidgin (see Neumann 1966:250 for the cognate construction in the Kjaxta di-
alect). It is not particularly frequent in the Ussuri materials. The second lexical
device is odnako, a coordinating conjunction 'although' in standard Russian but
an adverbial marker of inferentiality in Siberian Russian (and a stereotype of
Siberian speech in Russian literature):
(30) Sovsem tixo. Mnogo solnca ne bylo vetra. Odnako,
absolutely still many sun NEG. was wind
budet purga.
will be storm
'It's absolutely still. For several days there's been no wind. [I INFER] there's
going to be a blizzard.'
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 253
Odnako occurs twice in the pidgin corpus. It may be significant that in both
occurrences it is used where the main verb is a form of 'be'; est' (itself ety-
mologically a form of 'be') is unattested with forms of 'be', and perhaps is
ungrammatical with them. This means that odnako may have a place in the
inflectional marking of evidentiality. A safer assumption, however, is to simply
regard it as one of the several lexical Siberianisms in the Ussuri materials.
CROSS-LINGUISTIC COMPARISON
The Ussurian evidential category bears obvious resemblances to the pan-Eura-
sian evidential perfect, of which it is in fact a representative. The Eurasian
evidential is primarily inferential; it may have other meanings, but the inferential
use is the salient one, at least in grammatical descriptions. It is a past tense
category, usually called a perfect. The Chinese pidgin Russian evidential differs
from these in not being a past-tense category. Consequently, it can have predic-
tive future meaning, and it has the tense-based complementary distribution of
inferential and immediate meanings described above. Another apparent dif-
ference is that me Eurasian evidential can have a reported or hearsay meaning;
this is unattested for the pidgin evidential—but then in general there are no
hearsay clauses in the pidgin corpus. This means that the lack of tense restriction
is the principal, if not the sole, difference between the pidgin evidential and the
pan-Eurasian one. (For the Eurasian evidentials see Friedman 1979, Aksu and
Slobin, this volume.)
'Evidential' is an appropriate term for the pidgin category since the basic
element in its various meanings is evidence rather than propositional content:
depending on tense-aspect and person, an evidential predication is either an
inference from given evidence or an immediate reaction to it.
The complementary distribution of inferential, immediate, and predictive
meanings in the Ussuri pidgin lends itself to a further abstraction. Since (as
argued above) predictive is the tense-conditioned converse of inferential, we can
reduce the table on p. 247 to the following generalization: The evidential has
inferential meaning for punctuals, but immediate meaning for non-punctuals.
This generalization disregards the category intersection with person—the exten-
sion of immediacy to punctuals in the first person—and claims that the opposi-
tion of inferential to immediate is not a true contrast, but that the two are
contextual variants. (Recall that the track-reading examples (22-24) showed that
even the inferential function of est' requires immediacy.)
If we describe evidentials of other languages in sufficiently abstract terms, we
find that the same aspect-based conditioning recurs. To facilitate cross-linguistic
comparison I will use the term 'perfective' (always in quotes) to group the
Chinese pidgin Russian punctual with aspect categories of other languages, and
'imperfective' (in quotes) for the non-punctual and its analogs in other Ian-
254 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
guages. The terms 'perfective' and 'imperfective' label kinds of meanings only,
without regard to whether they are lexical classes of verbs (as they are in the
pidgin), regular inflectional categories, or contextual variants of one or another
tense or aspect category. The use of quotes is intended to make clear that the
observation of a recurrent pattern is based on terms used in descriptions of
languages. Whether it is a valid universal of languages, rather than a piece of
lexicography, is an empirical question. 'Perfective' subsumes meanings like
punctual and completive; 'imperfective' subsumes meanings like progressive,
durative, iterative, habitual.
Using these terms we can reduce the Chinese pidgin Russian distribution to
the following schema:
(31) Ussurian Chinese pidgin Russian: 'Perfective' conditions inferential;
'imperfective' conditions immediate.
The same generalization holds for a number of other languages surveyed in this
volume: something the linguist could call 'perfective' is associated with inferen-
tial meaning, and something that could be called 'imperfective' is associated
with immediate meaning. For instance, in Turkish, the evidential is restricted to
accomplished events, except that the readings of surprise and hearsay are not so
restricted (Aksu and Slobin, this volume). Leaving aside the hearsay reading
(which is unattested in the pidgin), and equating accomplished to 'perfective'
and surprise to immediate, we may generalize:
(32) Turkish: 'Imperfective' is associated with immediate.
In Tibetan (DeLancey, this volume), the evidential markers have inferential
meaning only in perfective contexts; in imperfective contexts the meaning is one
of surprise or immediate reaction. (Perfective is DeLancey's term.) Thus:
(33) Tibetan: 'Perfective' is associated with inferential;
'imperfective' is associated with immediate.
Sherpa 'nok marks immediate evidence, which is witnessed for the habitual
tense, inferential for the past (Woodbury, this volume). Equating habitual with
'imperfective' and past with 'perfective', we get:
(34) Sherpa: 'Perfective' is associated with inferential; 'imperfective' is not.
To these patterns can be added the general observation that the pan-Eurasian
inferential is a 'perfective' category. The very fact that the Eurasian inferential is
usually called a perfect, indicates that it is associated with 'perfective' meanings
of completedness, punctuality, and the like.
All of these language-specific distributions can be viewed as manifestations of
a universal tendency: 'perfective' favors inferential meanings and/or 'imperfec-
tive' favors immediate meanings. Schematically:
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 255
(35) Universal covariance.
aspect: 'perfective' 'imperfective'
evidentiality: inferential immediate
This distribution is internally motivated. To be immediately perceived and di-
rectly reacted to, a situation or event must be ongoing. If it is not ongoing it
cannot be immediately perceived, but must be inferred or predicted from the
evidence.
(35) suggests the following hypothesis: Languages will tend to group inferen-
tial and immediate meanings together into a single evidential form or category,
allowing aspect to predict the particular meaning; cross-linguistically, inferential
and immediate are contextual variants of a single category.11
Of the languages surveyed here, only Sherpa has evidentials other than the
inferential-immediate one. The Ussurian pidgin dialect, like the other Eurasian
languages, has only a single evidential category. This fact suggests a tentative
universal: If a language has only a single grammaticalized evidential, the mean-
ing of that evidential will be inferential-immediate. In other words, a cross-
linguistic implicational hierarchy for grammaticalized evidentials is headed by
the inferential-immediate type. This universal is quite abstract. It allows consid-
erable language-specific variation in connotations, invariant meaning, and inter-
section with other categories such as person, tense, and validation. It ranks
evidentials only relative to evidentials, not relative to other verbal categories
such as tense. It indicates—in answer to the question raised at the beginning of
this paper—that the first-ranked evidential category is one and the same, re-
gardless of whether it is embedded in a tense system.
The Balkan languages (Friedman, this volume) allow us to extend this pro-
posed universal even beyond evidentiality. These languages have a non-deictic
pragmatic category which is often equated to the pan-Eurasian evidential but
which (Friedman shows) is actually more akin to validation than to evidentiality.
At least in Balkan Slavic, it is like the Eurasian evidential in being linked to the
past tense: morphologically, these are past-tense forms; semantically, even in the
analog to immediate meaning the past tense is implicated (Friedman, example
20).12
The Balkan categories differ from the Eurasian evidentials in that inferen-
tial meaning is not only not salient but possibly not at all available (due, no
11
This formulation says nothing about the role of person in determining the semantics of
evidentiality. First-person subjects preclude inferential meaning in Chinese pidgin Russian; and a
number of papers in this volume show other respects in which first person disfavors various marked
evidential meanings. But this is another topic.
12
This is not true of Chinese pidgin Russian. (24), for example, shows that the immediate
meaning is a reaction to a new state of affairs at the instant it comes into existence.
256 Evidentiality Elsewhere in the World
doubt, to their essentially validational, rather than evidential, nature). But—for
Slavic as for Albanian—the validational categories do include among their
meanings one that can be described as 'immediate' in the sense in which I have
used the term (Friedman, examples (20), (21), and notes 15, 17). This suggests
an extended universal: The first non-deictic pragmatic category may be either
evidential or validational; but whichever it is, it will include immediate meaning
among its contextual variant meanings.
The universals proposed here rely crucially on inquiry into basic meaning and
contextual variants, a scholarly luxury that has so far been available mostly to
languages of the Old World. It remains to be seen what validity they will have
outside of Eurasia.
In summary: The Ussurian dialect of Chinese pidgin Russian has an evidential
opposition as its sole verbal inflection. The meaning of the evidential is inferen­
tial-immediate, with the exact distribution of inferential and immediate readings
determined by person and lexical aspect. Both the aspect-based complementary
distribution of evidential meanings, and the abstract meaning of the sole eviden­
tial, are shared by other languages. The value of the Ussurian dialect materials is
not undermined by problems of interpretation and attribution of competence:
they still demonstrate that a language can reduce its verbal categories down to
evidentiality alone, that evidentiality is basic enough to be viable in a pidgin
grammar, and that cross-linguistically the unmarked evidential either is inferen­
tial-immediate or at least includes the immediate meaning among its functions.
SOURCES
DU = Arsen'ev 1960b
UK = Arsen'ev 1960a
REFERENCES
Arsen'ev, V. K. 1937. V gorax Sixotè-Alinja. Moscow: Molodaja Gvardija.
1960a. Po Ussurijskomu kraju. Moscow: Gos. izd-vo geografičeskoj literatury. (Abbrevi­
ated as UK when used as source for cited texts.)
1960b. Dersu Uzala. Moscow: GIGL. (Abbreviated as DU for cited text source.)
1966. Skvoz' tajgu. Moscow: Mysl'.
Avrorin, V. A. 1959. Grammatika nanajskogo jazyka, I: Fonetičeskoe vvedenije i morfologija
imennyx častej reči. Moscow-Leningrad: AN.
Bickerton, Derek. 1975. Dynamics of a créole system. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Čerepanov, S. I. 1853. Kjaxtinskoe kitajskoe narečie russkogo jazyka. Izvestija II otdelenija Imper-
atorskoj Akademii nauk, II: 10.370-77.
Forsyth, James. 1970. A Grammar of aspect: Usage and meaning in the Russian verb. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Fox, James. MS. Russenorsk: A study in language adaptivity. Revised MA thesis. University of
Chicago.
Friedman, Victor. 1979. Toward a typology of status: Georgian and other Non-Slavic languages of
Nichols: The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian 257
the Soviet Union. The Elements: A Parasession on Linguistic Units and Levels, ed. P. R.
Clyne et al., 339-50. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Jakobson, Roman. (1944)1971. Franz Boas' approach to language. Selected writings 11.477-88. The
Hague and Paris: Mouton.
Maksimov, S. 1864. Na vostoke. Poezdka na Amur (1860-61). St. Petersburg.
Neumann, Gunter. 1966. Zur chinesisch-russischen Behelfssprache von Kjachta. Die Sprache
12.237-51.
Nichols, Johanna. 1980. Pidginization and foreigner talk: Chinese pidgin Russian. Papers from the
4th International Conference on Historical Linguistics, ed. by E. C. Traugott, 397-407.
(Amsterdam Studies in the Theory and History of Linguistic Science, IV. Current Issues in
Linguistic Theory, 14.) Amsterdam: John Benjamins B.V.
Timkovskii, E. F. 1827. Travels of the Russian mission through Mongolia to China, and residence in
Pekin, in the years 1820-1821. (Trans, by H. E. Lloyd.) 2 vols. London: Longman, Rees,
Orme, Brown, and Green.
Vendler, Zeno. 1967. Verbs and times. In Z. Vendler, Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca: Cornell
University Press.
PART THREE
EVIDENTIAUTY
IN ENGLISH
AND IN GENERAL
SIXTEEN
Evidentialify
in English Conversation
and Academic Writing
Wallace Chafe
University of California, Santa Barbara
English has a rich repertoire of evidential devices. It expresses evidentiality with
modal auxiliaries, adverbs, and miscellaneous idiomatic phrases, although not,
for example, with a coherent set of verb suffixes like those in some California
Indian languages. The difference between these Indian languages and English is
not a matter of evidentials vs. no evidentials. It is partly a question of how
evidentiality is grammatically expressed: is it by suffixes, auxiliaries, adverbs, or
what? It is partly a question of what kinds of evidentiality are expressed most
readily: are degrees of reliability, or inference, or sensory evidence, or hearsay,
for example, especially codable? And partly, too, it is a question of which
evidentials are most often used; different languages focus on different kinds of
evidentiality more or less of the time. Although English has a large variety of
evidential possibilities, it may use them in different proportions than some other
languages do.
For English the issue is not just how and when evidentiality is expressed by
SPEAKERS. Something else enters the picture when a language has had a long
literary tradition and therefore a differentiation into spoken and written styles.
Spoken and written language differ from each other in a number of basic ways,
and one of these is the expression of evidentiality.
The findings to be discussed here come from a project which was organized to
investigate differences between spoken and written English. ' We have collected
several kinds of spoken and written language from each of twenty adults, and
have analyzed these data for differential occurrences of a number of features
1
Preliminary reports on this project are available in Chafe 1982 and 1985. The project has been
supported by Grant NIE-G-80-0125 from the National Institute of Education. I am grateful for the
collaboration of Jane Danielewicz and Pamela Downing.
261
262 Evidentiality in English and in General
thought to be more prevalent in spoken or written language. Among these fea-
tures have been some that belong in the category of evidentials, and thus we have
a fairly large body of material which sheds some light on the use of evidentials in
several styles of English. I will discuss here the expression of evidentiality in
dinnertable conversations and academic writing, thereby highlighting the ex-
tremes of 'spokenness' and 'writtenness' in our data.
I need to stress that I am using the term 'evidentiality' in its broadest sense,
not restricting it to the expression of 'evidence' per se. I will be discussing a
range of epistemological considerations that are linguistically coded in spoken
and written English. 'Evidence,' taken literally, is one of these considerations,
but not the only one. What gives coherence to the set under discussion is that
everything dealt with under this broad interpretation of evidentiality involves
attitudes toward knowledge. The coherence is reinforced by the observation that
various linguistic expressions slide across more than one of the various types
within this domain. The refusal of linguistic expressions to restrict themselves to
evidence in the narrow sense can be found not only in their synchronic behavior,
but also diachronically, where extensions and shifts among these various epis-
temological considerations are by no means rare (see especially Mithun, this
volume).
Our samples of conversational English and academic writing showed approx-
imately the same proportion of evidential markers to the total number of words.
In conversation there were 60 occurrences of evidentials per thousand words; in
academic writing the proportion was just slightly higher: 64 per thousand words.
Differences appeared, then, not so much in the frequency of evidentials overall,
as in the frequency of specific kinds of evidentials.
These differences can be attributed to two major differences between speaking
and writing. A writer has much more time than a speaker to deliberate on what is
being said. Speaking takes place on the fly, but a writer can mull over how best
to say what is desired, and has ample time to edit what is produced. As a result,
there are certain kinds of epistemological considerations that a writer has time to
deal with, and a speaker typically does not. The other major difference between
speaking and writing is that a speaker is in direct, face to face interaction with the
audience, while a writer sits alone with a pencil or typewriter. Speaking is an
involved, social activity; writing is lonely and detached. The result is that speak-
ers pay more attention to direct experience, and to the ways in which their
thoughts and expressions match ongoing expectations. We will see below how
these two kinds of differences affect the two kinds of language that are produced.
In order to understand what evidentiality in the broad sense involves, it is
useful to think in terms of several notions that are illustrated in Figure 1. One
notion can be labeled KNOWLEDGE: the basic information whose status is
qualified in one way or another by markers of evidentiality. It is shown vertically
in the middle of Figure 1. Knowledge may be regarded by a speaker (or writer) as
more or less RELIABLE (or valid), as is indicated in Figure 1 with the suggestion
of a continuum from the most reliable knowledge, at the top, to the least reliable,
Chafe: Evidentiality in English Conversation and Academic Writing 263
knowledge
matched against
reliable
k
n
- > o
- > w — > verbal resources
- > 1 — > expectations
- > e
d
g
e
unreliable
Figure 1
at the bottom. Also relevant are various MODES OF KNOWING: various ways in
which knowledge is acquired. The modes of knowing shown here are BELIEF,
INDUCTION, HEARSAY, and DEDUCTION. Each of them is based on a different
SOURCE, which for belief is problematic, for induction is EVIDENCE, for hearsay
is LANGUAGE, and for deduction is a HYPOTHESIS. (The placement of these four
modes of knowing in Figure 1 does not imply that belief is more reliable, or
deduction less reliable than the others. Each mode of knowing can move up and
down the scale of reliability.)
On the right side of Figure 1 is an indication that knowledge may be matched
against VERBAL RESOURCES (or categories), and also against EXPECTATIONS.
Here there is a question of how good the match is. For one thing there is the
question of whether the verbal resources which a speaker or writer chooses
express more or less well the knowledge to be communicated. There is also the
question of the match between a speaker or writer's knowledge and the speak-
er's, writer's, or others' expectations.
" All of these notions receive verbal expression in English under appropriate
circumstances. Suppose, for example, I say:
(1) I feel something crawling up my leg.
The idea that something is crawling up my leg is what I will call knowledge. In
this case the mode of knowing is induction, based on evidence from feeling. If I
went on to say:
(2) It's probably a spider.
the knowledge would be that it's a spider, and I would be showing with the word
probably something about the degree of reliability of that knowledge. If I had
said:
source of
knowledge
mode of
knowing
??? - - - > belief
evidence — > induction
language - - - > hearsay
hypothesis — > deduction
264 Evidentiality in English and in General
(3) It might be a spider.
I would be doing the same, except that I would be indicating a lower degree of
reliability. If I said, for example:
(4) / think it's a spider.
I would be showing that my knowledge is based on belief. To say:
(5) It must be a spider.
would indicate induction alone, without showing the nature of the evidence; and
so on.
To the right of Figure 1 is the suggestion that knowledge may be matched
against verbal resources, or against expectations. If I said, for example:
(6) Itfeels sort of creepy.
I would be signaling that 'creepy' was an approximate way of characterizing
what I was feeling, that the match with this verbal resource (this category or
word) was imperfect or fuzzy. On the other hand, if I said:
(7) Oddly enough itfeels good.
the signal would be that the piece of knowledge expressed by 'it feels good' was
contrary to expectation. All of the above examples were concocted in order to
clarify the intent of Figure 1. We will meet some real examples presently.
DEGREES OF RELIABILITY
People are aware, though not necessarily consciously aware, that some things
they know are surer bets for being true than others, that not all knowledge is
equally reliable. Thus, one way in which knowledge may be qualified is with an
expression indicating the speaker's assessment of its degree of reliability, the
likelihood of its being a fact. Conversational English uses for this purpose
adverbs like maybe, probably, or certainly:2
(8s) We kept thinking maybe they'd be stationed at the Presidio.
(9s) But I'm probably not going to do it any more.
(10s) He's quite nice, and certainly very cheery.
2
From this point on, I will distinguish (conversational) spoken examples from (academic)
written examples by suffixing V or 'w' to the example number.
Chafe: Evidentiality in English Conversation and Academic Writing 265
or modals like might or may:
(lis) The one thing that might shed light on it was something about requests.
(12s) You know I may not really be putting in full time even this quarter.
Academic writing uses the same expressions, except that it adds a few other
adverbs to the set, words like possibly, undoubtedly, and surely:
(13w) The positive and negative decisions in the Johnson-Laird et al. (1978) study may
have allowed equal elaboration, but possibly not.
(14w) The answer undoubtedly varies from one situation to another.
(15w) Then this limitation will surelyplay a part in determining the nature ofthe 'rules'
for reference in any language.
There is an alternation between maybe, used mostly in speaking, and perhaps,
used mostly in writing. Compare example (8s) above with:
(16w) This perhaps served to ward off comments from peers or teacher.
The incidence of all these expressions of reliability taken together does not differ
greatly between conversation and academic writing. Our spoken data showed 4.6
expressions of reliability per thousand words, our written data 6.8.
There is, however, a special kind of reliability which is more important in
academic writing than in conversation. Writers, and less often speakers, may be
aware that what they are presenting is not categorically true, but rather true in
some statistical sense; it may of necessity be true only as an approximation, a
tendency, a mean. There is an important difference between a concern with the
probability that something is a fact or not a fact and a realization that something
may turn out to be true most of the time, but not always. Academic writing,
especially, is sprinkled with words like basically, by definition, essentially,
exactly, generally, in some sense, invariably, literally, normally, particularly,
primarily, specifically, and virtually, expressions which are less frequent in
conversational language. For example:
(17w) The needfor a personal name is normally felt at the time of a person's birth.
(18w) These are generally taken to be in the area of 'performance'.
(19w) The link between speech formulas and available mental energy is evident in
activities like baseball, where players on thefield chatterprimarily informulas.
In other words, writers are prone to worry about HOW true something is. It should
be noted that statements like (17w-19w) are necessarily generic statements,
since they must allow for an indefinite number of specific instances. The fre-
266 Evidentiality in English and in General
quency of these expressions of statistical reliability in our samples of academic
writing was 10.22 per thousand words, as compared with 4.18 occurrences in
conversation.
BELIEF
We can move now from expressions of reliability to expressions that have to do
with modes of knowing. In many cases, as we will see, such expressions carry
implications as to degree of reliability as well. In other words, mode of knowing
implies something about reliability, but not vice versa. We can begin with belief,
or opinion (a weaker form of it). Belief is a mode of 'knowing' in which concern
for evidence is downgraded. People believe things because other people whose
views they respect believe them too, or simply because, for whatever reason,
they want to believe them. There may be evidence to support a belief, evidence
which a believer may cite if pressed for it by a nonbeliever, but belief is always
based on something other than evidence alone. Knowledge arrived at through
belief is signaled in conversational English with expressions like / think, I guess,
or / suppose:
(20s) / think that a lot of the time I've been misjudging her.
(21s) / guess I was thinking about it in a different way.
(22s) The idea is that Christfollowed this pattern, and Moses, I suppose.
Our conversational written data contained 3.6 occurrences of such expressions
per thousand words, as contrasted with only .6 occurrences in our academic
written data.
INDUCTION
In contrast to belief, the mode of knowing in which evidence plays a central role
is induction or inference. English often signals only that induction has taken
place, without any indication of what the nature of the evidence was. The most
common marker which serves this function is must, which signals an inference
with a high degree of reliability:
(23s) It must have been a kid.
Obvious expresses an even more compelling inference:
(24s) Well it was just obvious I couldn't work.
Seem, on the other hand, indicates less certainty about the conclusion:
Chafe: Evidentiality in English Conversation and Academic Writing 267
(25s) And she absolutely did not seem to know what was going on.
Evidently is similar, but less common:
(26s) It had evidently been under snow.
Academic writing marks inductive inference more often than conversation,
but the figures are low for both. We found 1.3 markers of induction per thousand
words of conversational English and 2.4 in academic writing.
SENSORY EVIDENCE
Languages sometimes go beyond marking simply that knowledge has been ac-
quired through induction to indicate the specific kind of evidence on which the
induction was based. Typically such evidence is sensory or perceptual. English
may indicate that reliable knowledge has been derived from sensory evidence by
using the explicit verbs see, hear, and feel (the following are constructed
examples):
(27) / see her coming down the hall.
(28) / hear her taking a shower.
(29) Ifeel something crawling up my leg.
That such knowledge is high in reliability is demonstrated by the fact that the
following bald assertions are equivalent to (27-29), except for the lack of evi-
dential specification:
(30) She's coming down the hall.
(31) She's taking a shower.
(32) Something is crawling up my leg.
The knowledge derived from sensory evidence may, on the other hand, be
treated as less than fully reliable. Lesser reliability is expressed in English with
phrases such as looks like, sounds like, and feels like:
(33) She looks like she's asleep.
(34) He sounds like he's mad.
(35) Itfeels like the door is open.
In contrast to the confidence shown in (27-29), (33-35) show a degree of doubt.
We understand from these sentences that it would be no great surprise to find that
she's not asleep, he's not mad, or the door is shut.
268 Evidentiality in English and in General
The invoking of sensory evidence was a rare phenomenon in our data. We
found only 1.1 examples per thousand words of conversation, and virtually none
at all in academic writing. The following are conversational examples:
(36s) They look like they've been opened at least.
(37s) He sounded like he thought very very slowly.
(38s) Most of the time I feel extremely safe there.
Though English provides the resources when needed, there may be a real dif-
ference between the infrequent invoking of sensory evidence in English and the
common marking of it in some other languages.
HEARSAY EVIDENCE
Another mode of knowing is language; that is, we know many things because
people have told us about them. Some languages have clearcut devices—parti-
cles, affixes, or both—to qualify knowledge as having been acquired through
language rather than direct experience. English is less clearcut. There are a
variety of phrases which can perform this function: people say, they say, I've
been told, or more specifically, Sarah told me, Harry said yesterday. A real
example from our data is:
(39s) They were using more verbs than English speaking kids have been said to lear
There are several less direct hearsay devices which have been borrowed for this
purpose from other functions. One is it seems, whose original function was as a
marker of induction. In the following example it indicates knowledge obtained
through language:
(40s) Well Schaeffer it seems had justfound the latest article from the Smithsonian.
Another, which expresses somewhat more doubtful reliability, is supposed to,
which also has other functions. In the following example it indicates knowledge
derived through hearsay:
(41s) / think it's supposed to be the most expensive place in Europe to live.
Apparently is sometimes used in a similar way:
(42s) Apparently at the end of a paper she gave, she pulled out a giant hairbrush.
In academic writing knowledge obtained through language is indicated with the
formal device of citing a reference or personal communication:
Chafe: Evidentially in English Conversation and Academic Writing 269
(43w) Craik and Tulving (1975, Experiment 6) suggested that the congruity effect is no
due to positive decisions per se, but rather to the likelihood of greater elabora­
tion in those cases.
These are hearsay evidentials expressed in their most precise and deliberate
form.
The number of hearsay devices per thousand words in our sample of conversa-
tional English was only .4. In academic writing the bulk of the examples were
citations, which of course were very frequent. If we leave citations out of
account as not belonging to what are usually considered hearsay evidentials,
English does not appear to mark hearsay evidentiality very often. Again, there
are other languages which differ conspicuously in this regard.
DEDUCTION
Still another mode of knowing is to invent a model which predicts what will
count as evidence. Such reasoning involves an intuitive leap to a hypothesis from
which conclusions about evidence can be deduced. Typical markers of deduction
are should and presumably:
(44w) He or she should take longer to respond following exposure to inconsistent
information than when exposed to no information at all.
(45w) Adults presumably are capable ofpurely logical thought.
As with induction, different markers of deduction can imply different degrees of
reliability. A lesser degree than in the above examples may be marked with can
or could:
(46w) One can—at least in principle—provide the experience that is needed to bring
readiness about.
(47w) No normal phonological rules could accountfor the loss of this h.
A special kind of hypothetical knowledge is that expressed by would, where an
outcome is predicted contingent on an unrealized condition. Such hypotheses are
common in academic writing, often as a way of avoiding responsibility for
evidence:
(48w) This claim does not address other retrieval influences that would be consistent
with the obtained results.
In our academic data there were 4.4 occurrences of deduction markers per
thousand words. In conversation there were 2.9. A reason for the greater inci-
dence in writing may be that hypothesis formation requires more time for imag-
ination and deliberation, time which is more available to writers than to speakers.
270 Evidentially in English and in General
HEDGES
We can now turn from modes of knowing and sources of knowledge to a
different epistemological consideration which also receives frequent linguistic
coding. Human understanding involves a constant comparing of ongoing knowl-
edge with expectations. Everything we experience has to be checked against
what we already know. We interpret particular experiences by attempting to
match them with categories and schémas already present in our minds. It is
especially with relation to categories (e.g. Rosch and Lloyd 1978) that eviden-
tially comes into play. Categories make it possible for knowledge to be associ-
ated with linguistic labels and thus to be expressed in language. We decide that
some creature is appropriately called a cat, or some action ajump. But the match
between a piece of knowledge and a category may be less than perfect. We
would say in such a case that the knowledge has less than optimal codability. In
conversational English by far the most common markers of low codability are
sort of and kind of. They may be used to qualify nouns, verbs, adjectives, or
whole predications:
(49s) And they tend to be sort offarmer kinds ofpeople.
(50s) And he started sort of circling.
(51s) And he sort of always has done this.
The other commonly used hedge in conversational English is about, which
removes the precision from a categorization that would otherwise be too precise,
usually by suggesting something close to but not exactly at a round number:
(52s) / have afriend who's about sixfoot and blond.
(53s) And about two days later my professor called me into her office.
The hedges sort of and kind of are entirely absent from academic writing. About
does occur, but with less than half the frequency of its occurrence in
conversation:
(54w) . . . a Mohawk community about 30 miles from Montreal.
Altogether we found 3.6 occurrences of hedging per thousand words of conver-
sation, versus only .4 per thousand words of academic writing.
EXPECTATIONS
Conversational English has a large number of devices which signal expectations
of some kind, against which knowledge may be matched. They range from of
course, which shows that something is in line with expectations:
Chafe: Evidentiality in English Conversation and Academic Writing 271
(55s) . . . but of course to the audience sounded like sort of a total nonsequitur.
to oddly enough, which indicates a conflict:
(56s) Well oddly enough it was in Japan.
In fact and actually suggest that a fact goes beyond what one might have
expected:
(57s) In fact this whole week has been awful.
(58s) . . . cause German was actually his first language until he started school.
Or, from academic writing:
(59w) Furthermore, some speakers appear to apply the rules variably, while oth­
ers .. . do not in fact use the rules or the underlying forms on which they
operate at all.
Other common expressions which relate in various ways to expectations are at
least, even, only, but, however, and nevertheless.
There were 17 occurrences of such expectation markers per thousand words of
conversation, and 13.9 per thousand words of academic writing. Here too aca-
demic writing shows less concern than conversational language for aspects of
epistemology that involve some kind of on-line matching of knowledge against a
prior pattern.
SUMMARY
'Evidentiality' has been used here broadly to cover any linguistic expression of
attitudes toward knowledge. So far as we can tell from their language, users of
English regard knowledge as factual much of the time, expressing it without any
evidential qualification. Some knowledge, however, is judged appropriate to
place on a scale of reliability. Positions on this scale may be signaled by adverbs
such as maybe (perhaps), probably, and certainly, or by the modals might and
may. Writers also use possibly, undoubtedly, and surely. Both speakers and
writers show this kind of concern with the probability of something being a fact
or not being a fact. Academic writing, however, also uses a variety of words like
normally and primarily to indicate a statistical tendency rather than a categorical
truth.
Speakers, much more often than writers, may indicate that knowledge stems
from belief or opinion with phrases like / think, I guess, and / suppose.
Other expressions show that knowledge has been inductively arrived at: must,
seem and evidently are examples. Such expressions not only mark induction, but
I
272 Evidentially in English and in General
provide some indication of degree of reliability as well. They are relatively
infrequent, but slightly more common in academic writing than in conversation.
There may also be a marking of the kind of evidence which led to an induc-
tion. Conversational English has some straightforward devices for marking sen-
sory evidence as a source of knowledge, see and look like for example, but these
devices are only infrequently used.
There are also ways of indicating hearsay knowledge, like they say or it
seems. These too are infrequent in our material. Academic writing codes hearsay
evidence chiefly in the special form of reference citations.
Knowledge arrived at deductively, through hypothesis formation and predic-
tion, may be signaled with words like should, could, and would. Conversational
language shows fewer examples of deductive reasoning than does academic
writing.
Another area of epistemology often coded in language has to do with match-
ing knowledge against categories and expectations. A piece of knowledge may
match a verbal category more or less well. A less than perfect match is signaled
by a hedge like sort of or kind of. Hedging is largely a property of conversational
language, being captured in academic writing only with words like about, which
hedge precision. Other kinds of expectations are captured with expressions like
in fact, of course, and oddly enough. Academic writing makes less use of such
expressions too.
Thus, in general, conversational English and academic writing both show a
concern for the reliability of knowledge, as well as for induction. Academic
writing shows more concern for deduction, neither makes a big point of marking
the kind of evidence per se, and hedging as well as other devices which match
knowledge against expectations are more characteristic of conversation than of
academic written language. These differences can be seen as stemming from the
spontaneity and interactiveness of speaking and the deliberateness and detach-
ment of writing.
REFERENCES
Chafe, Wallace L. 1982. Integration and involvement in speaking, writing, and oral literature.
Spoken and written language: exploring orality and literacy, ed. by Deborah Tannen. Nor-
wood, NJ: Ablex Publishing Corp.
1985. Linguistic differences produced by differences between speaking and writing. Liter-
acy, language, and learning: the nature and consequences of reading and writing, ed. by
David R. Olson, Nancy Torrance, and Angela Hildyard. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Rosch, Eleanor, and Barbara B. Lloyd (eds.). 1978. Cognition and categorization. Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
SEVENTEEN
Evidentials, Paths of Change,
and Mental Maps: Typologically
Regular Asymmetries*
Lloyd B. Anderson
Washington, D.C.
INTRODUCTION
Evidentials express the kinds of evidence a person has for making factual claims.
They appear in different surface forms, but show patterns of historical develop-
ment and grammatical function which are similar in language after language. I
argue that these regularities result from their basic meanings.
From a typological survey of evidentials we can build a universal framework.
We construct a "map" of evidential meanings, showing which meanings are
more closely related or more distant from each other. In the process, we are led
to a much more precise terminology for distinguishing evidential meanings. With
this map we can easily compare languages.
Using the map we can see paths of historical change in a very graphic way: as
particular forms change their meanings, they move through the space represented
by the map (their category boundaries advance and retreat). Results of this study
include new historical hypotheses for evidentials in Tibeto-Burman and Califor-
nia Indian languages, and for moods in Indo-European.
All facets of the reasoning interact in spiral fashion to determine the solution
presented here: the map of evidential meanings. The method is explicitly induc-
tive, as it must be in such a new field; results are likely to be more valid this way
than if they proceed from a priori logical ideas.
My treatment is divided into three parts: (a) clarifying what evidentials are;
Copyright © 1982 Lloyd B. Anderson.
* I am grateful to the organizers of the conference, Johanna Nichols and Wally Chafe, for the
opportunity to participate. I have learned far more than I dreamed of in advance.
273
274 Evidentiality in English and in General
(b) mental maps of evidential space; (c) evidentials, mood, and modality: ty-
pologically regular asymmetries and suppletion.
CLARIFYING WHAT EVIDENTIALS ARE
It is important to distinguish true evidential categories from other forms which
SEEM evidential, but are not. The noun form of the term "evidentials" or "an
evidential" does not simply include anything one might consider to have an
evidential function, that is, to express evidence for something else. Rather,
evidentials are a special grammatical phenomenon. Typical evidentials include
the following two examples from English. (The words inside brackets, [ . . . ] ,
are the evidentials; the material not in brackets is the central factual claim of each
sentence.)
(1) (circumstantial inference) John [must have] arrived, (because I see his coat on the
chair)
(2) (hearsay) // hear] Mary won the prize. (someone told me)
We can identify archetypal evidentials as in (3). This identification is not an
arbitrary definition but results from the empirical findings.1
Evidentials, so
identified, interact strongly with each other as competing choices.
(3a) Evidentials show the kind ofjustification for a factual claim which is available to
the person making that claim, whether
direct evidence plus observation (no inference needed)
evidence plus inference
inference (evidence unspecified)
reasoned expectation from logic and other facts
and whether the evidence is auditory, or visual, etc.
(3b) Evidentials are not themselves the main predication of the clause, but are rather av
specification added to a factual claim ABOUT SOMETHING ELSE.
(3c) Evidentials have the indication of evidence as in (a) as their primary meaning, not
only as a pragmatic inference.
1
In the same way Lyons (1966) was able to frame a universal definition of 'Noun', in which the
semantic core is valid for all languages, but the outer limits of what morphologically are treated as
nouns will vary from language to language. It was Sally McLendon's remarks at the conference
which convinced me of the need for a semantically narrow definition: her own definition was close to
(3a). Gordon (this volume) discusses a version of (3b) for Maricopa. Jacobsen (this volume) states
that in Makah evidentials are not morphologically a unitary category. But since they are never main
predications (3b), they do have some structural properties in common. Some of the forms he
discusses only have secondary evidential functions; they are not full evidentials by the criteria used
here.
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 275
(3d) Morphologically, evidentials are inflections, clitics, or other free syntactic ele-
ments (not compounds or derivational forms).2
I will consider each part of the definition. (3c) excludes certain categories
which are obviously not evidentials. A marker of experiencer role used on a
noun, often a special kind of dative case, may have evidential implications. Yet
it is still a case marker, not an evidential. A marker of actual present often allows
an inference of direct witnessing or certainty. Yet it is not therefore automatically
an evidential.
Circumstantial-inference evidentials often arise by historical change from
certain kinds of perfect (those of result state or of current relevance3
). Consider
(4):
(4a) The toast is burnt.
(4b) The toast burned, (and the orange juice was sour—a terrible breakfast).
(4c) The toast has burned.
(4d) The toast [must] have burned.
Here (4a) simply tells the state of the toast observed, and (4b) claims only that
the event occurred, that the toast burned, without giving any evidence. But (4c)
has its verb in the perfect and may be used to relate a present state (toast now
burnt) to a past event (the toast burned). When the present state is used as
circumstantial evidence for inferring an unwitnessed past event, English nor-
mally adds the epistemic must of logical inference: (4d). For this true evidential,
the analysis should probably bracket [must have] together as in (1), rather than
only [must] as in (4d).
While the English Perfect (4c) remains primarily a perfect with many non-
evidential uses, the "Perfects" of some other languages have historically be-
come evidentials with no need for an additional signal like English must: Geor-
gian, Turkish, and Balkan Slavic show this (Aksu and Slobin, this volume;
Friedman, this volume), perhaps also Jaqaru-Aymara (see notes 3 and 17).
Part (3b) of the evidential definition distinguishes among the following En-
glish sentences, where words which normally carry the strongest stress are
capitalized:
2
(3d) is in accord with Jacobsen who notes that the suffixes that are clearly specialized as
evidentials are inflections rather than derivational suffixes, what Boas and Swadesh called word-
suffixes rather than stem-suffixes. Jacobsen notes that "evidentials may arise from morphemes
with . . . concrete meanings . . . mov[ing] to a less central layer of the word" as they change their
meaning and cease to be derivational (this volume, 11 and 20).
3
These and many other varieties of perfect are discussed in Anderson (1982). See also note 17.
276 Evidentiality In English and in General
(5a) // hear] Mary won the PRIZE.
(5b) [I heard] (that) Mary won the PRIZE.
(5c) / HEARD that Mary won the prize.
(5d) / HEARD she won it, but nobody told me what the prize WAS.
(5e) / already HEARD that, you don't need to tell me AGAIN.
Of these, only (5a,b) contain evidentiais, [bracketed], telling how it is the speak-
er knows that Mary won the prize. In (5c,d,e) the word HEARD is, in fact, the
main predication. The proposition that Mary won the prize is here NOT the main
predication, so it can be reduced by pronominalization, partially, (5d), or en-
tirely, (5e).
The differences between perception verbs (5c,d,e) and evidentiais (5a,b) are
at first very subtle. But as a historical change continues, grammatical reanalysis
leads to quite distinct structures. The form [/ hear] in (5a) contains no past tense
marker even though the speaker received the information in the past. In this
respect it is like (6a,b).
(6a) [I understand that] Mary won the PRIZE.
(6b) // have it on good authority that] Mary won the PRIZE.
(6c) I've got it. = / have it.
(6d) I've gotten it. = I've received it.
In examples (6a,b), (5a) the evidentiais represent states of the speaker, resulting
from a prior event as in [I have heard that] Mary won the PRIZE. They may
represent a lexical reanalysis of 'hear' in the same way that (6d) has changed to
(6c), so that 've got, 's got is a new vocabulary item, a stative.
Similar shifts occur in other languages. The Maricopa visual evidential suffix
-'yuu lacks an aspect suffix -k which is present when it is a main verb meaning 'I
see': '-yuu-k (Gordon, this volume). Like English understand, (6a), and hear,
(5a), which lack a past tense marking, the Makah evidentiais -pi:t, -qadi, -caqii
are usually found in the present tense, and never in the past tense (Jacobsen, p.
11). Wintu and Patwin show phonological reductions of an original mut- 'hear'.
Perception verbs often give rise to evidentiais. Probably this is just because
we normally take our own perceptions for granted; perception verbs are then not
the main predication of a sentence, and come to be reduced and reanalyzed in
various ways.
But when reanalysis has not occurred, there is only the evidential USE of a
form which is not itself primarily an evidential. It is important to insist on this
aspect of the definition. For most English perception words, there is little or no
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 277
data to show that they have been reanalyzed. In this they differ from [hear], (5a),
and [understand], (6a). None of the examples in (7) are full evidentials.4
(7a) It's sour. Perception words as main
It stinks. predication
(7b) It SMELLS fresh Perception-verb usage
// LOOKS fresh.
It FEELS fresh.
(7c) That fruit smells like dried fish. Perception-verb usage
(I wonder what chemicals make
it have that effect.)
(7d) It smells like dried fish. Evidential USAGE
(='I think it's dried fish.')
(7e) It smells FRESH. Evidential USAGE
// looks FRESH.
It feels FRESH.
(7f) [I smell] a pie baking. Evidential USAGE
Contrast especially (7c) with (7d), and (7b) with (7e), where the sentences are so
reduced that only stress separates them on the surface. Examples (7d,e,f ) qualify
as evidentials by definitions (3a,b,d) but not by (3c). They are thus borderline.
One purpose of the mental maps I present later is to show clearly these slight
shifts in meaning and usage which evidentials gradually undergo in their
development.
Several important properties of evidentials are embodied in the definitions
given in (3), as we have seen, or are direct logical consequences of them. Since
evidentials are used (a) to specify factual claims and (b) to indicate the justifica-
tion available TO THE PERSON MAKING THE CLAIM, we have the following
generalizations:
(8) Evidentials are normally used in assertions (realis clauses), not in irrealis clauses,
nor in presuppositions.
(9a) When the claimed fact is directly observable by both speaker and hearer, eviden-
tials are rarely used (or have a special emphatic or surprisal sense).5
(9b) When the speaker (first person) was a knowing participant in some event (volun-
tary agent; conscious experiencer), the knowledge of that event is normally direct
and evidentials are then often omitted.
4
For support of this claim, see the discussion of Makah (and see Jacobsen, this volume, p. 23).
5
For some examples of surprisals, see Gordon on Maricopa, and Aksu and Slobin on Turkish
(both, this volume).
278 Evidentiality in English and in General
(9c) Often, it is claimed, second person in questions is treated as first person in
statements. (But such examples may contain ordinary perception verbs rather than
archetypal evidentials, in the sense in which these were distinguished in (7).)
The absurdity of evidentials in irrealis clauses and presuppositions can be seen
from (10):
(10a) *[l hear] Do the dishes! (imperative)
(10b) */ asked John to [apparently] come (infinitive subjunctive)
(10c) *lf it were the case that John [must have] arrived, . . .
(lOd) *If John had [apparently] arrived, he could help us. (counterfactuals)
(10e) *When John [apparently] came, the party got livelier, (presupposition)
In Eastern Porno (McLendon 1982) the irrealis "cannot occur with eviden-
tials."6
In Wintu (Schlichter, this volume, following Pitkin's work which she
cites) there is a special non-assertive "stem II" of the verb, typically with -«,
which is not used with evidentials. (This stem is used for imperatives; inter-
rogatives, negatives; causatives, passives; probability, possibility, potentiality;
inevitable/necessary future events; wishes, hopes, and fears.)
Wintu has a "stem I" of the verb, typically with -a, for factual assertions.
Evidentials are used with this stem unless the speaker directly observed the
subject acting. If the speaker is also the agent of the action, evidentials will only
be used to imply an indirect source of the information.7
I will discuss other
languages later which illustrate (9) by having special first-person forms which
can be analyzed as having no evidential marking (Tibetan, Kashaya). Detailed
discussion of (9c) must be postponed to another occasion.
Distinctions between true evidentials and neighboring non-evidential catego-
ries are obviously not easy to make. But it is still possible to construct a reason-
able typology of evidential meanings, and to this I now turn.
MENTAL MAPS OF EVIDENTIAL SPACE
Maps of semantic space have been used before. The procedure is fairly straight-
forward when we have an external "objective" criterion of meaning similarity.
The dimensions of color space can be defined in advance in terms such as
wavelength/hue and brightness. Thus, Berlin and Kay (1969) were able to use a
fixed ' 'map' ' of color space, locating on it the color terms of each language and
establishing their limits of use.
6
On Porno, see Figure 6 and discussion of examples (19).
7
See Schlichter (this volume), examples (8) and (13). This indirect information about the first
person might be a source of reanalysis from which a surprisal develops, usable with third-person
agents as well.
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 279
For more abstract vocabulary, and especially for grammatical categories, this
approach is not possible. We do not know the dimensions of our space in
advance. But there is another method. We can develop grammar/meaning spaces
inductively, finding a "map" which works consistently for many languages.
The fundamental notion presupposed by any semantic space is similarity of
meaning. Highly similar meanings should be close together on a map, dissimilar
meanings should be far apart (just as on a map of colors).
We can determine similarity of meaning typologically, even without an exter-
nal "objective" criterion such as that available for color words. If two particular
meanings are often expressed by the same surface form (across a random sample
of languages), then we can generally infer that the two meanings are similar for
the human mind. This inductive inference will usually be valid, although in
certain specific situations it will lead to false conclusions and must be corrected
(as explained in the next section). This procedure has been carried out for about
twenty distinct evidential meanings identifiable in the articles of this volume and
elsewhere. Here I only illustrate the procedure.
Consider the three evidential meanings in (11) and their surface forms in two
related Pomoan languages.
Kashaya Eastern Pomo
(11a) auditory evidential: -Vnnà -itike
('[I hear] someone coming')
(lib) non-auditory non-visual sensory evidential: -qâ -înke
('[I smell] a pie baking')
(lie) inferential evidential: -qâ -ine
('John [must]/[seems to] be here now')
Because Kashaya has the same surface grammatical form for meanings (lib) and
(1 lc), namely the suffix -qà, it is reasonable to suggest that meanings (lib) and
(1 lc) are similar. By the same reasoning, Eastern Pomo -inke shows that mean-
ings (11a) and (lib) are similar.
In the small sample used here, the Kashaya pattern is unique to Kashaya. But
the Eastern Pomo pattern is found in many languages: meanings (lla,b) are
linked in Maricopa -(k) 'a- (Gordon); Wintu -nther (Schlichter); possibly Patwin
mut-her (Whistler); and possibly Sherpa -i-nok, -ki-nok (Woodbury) (all authors,
this volume).
Because the Eastern Pomo pattern is more common, we can infer that mean-
ing (1 lb) is more similar to (1 la), where it is linked by Eastern Pomo and others,
than it is to (1 lc), where it is linked only by Kashaya. One language, Sherpa, has
a single evidential form -nok spanning the full range of meanings in (1 la,b,c),
and others besides (though combined with other elements in different ways for
these different meanings). But no language in the sample has a single evidential
280 Evidentialiry in English and in General
form used for both meanings (11a) and (1 lc) while excluding (1 lb).8
Thus, it is
possible to conclude that the meanings of (1 la) and (lie) are not similar in any
way other than the characteristics which they share with (lib).
We can now translate such similarity measures into a map of mental space for
evidential meanings. The full map of evidential space is complex, so I begin with
a simpler extract from it, containing just the points of immediate interest. This is
Figure 1.
Just as with an ordinary geographical map, it is useful to have number and
letter scales along the top and sides. These are purely to locate particular posi-
tions for discussion. Since we are establishing evidential space inductively, the
vertical and horizontal dimensions and coordinates do not yet have an interpreta-
tion. Such an interpretation will be a RESULT of the analysis, given later.
On the map shown in Figure 1, true evidentials, as defined in (3), are enclosed
within a solid rectangle. As argued earlier for the 'I heard' of examples (5c-e),
main-predication uses of perception verbs are not true evidentials. Thus percep-
tion-verb 'hear' is at point (H5) of Figure 1, outside the rectangle.
Inside the rectangle, at (G6), are the true auditory evidentials, the type of
(11a). (English has no true auditory evidentials so the English glosses of (1 la,b)
are approximations as in (7).) At (F3) are hearsay evidentials, with English
examples like (2) and (5a,b). The arrows from (H5) to (G6) and from (H5) to
(F3) represent the hypothesis that the perception verb 'hear' often changes histor-
ically either into auditory or into hearsay evidentials. Arrows will have this
historical meaning throughout. (For some details of arrow use see note 10.)
Point (F6) on the map is for non-auditory, non-visual sensory evidentials, that
is, for information gained through smell, taste, etc. English examples include
(lib).
Inferential evidentials (types like 1 lc) are at points (E4, D4, D2). The English
examples (1, lie) and the Eastern Porno -ine of (lie) belong in (D4, D2).
Oswalt's description of Kashaya -qâ (this volume) leaves open the possibility v
that its meaning includes points in the range of (E4-5) as well as (D4, D2) or
instead of (D4, D2).
Positions of meanings on this partial map do reflect the similarity measures
drawn from the typological survey, as in (11). Meanings (D4) and (G6) are fairly
far apart; (F6) is in between, but closer to (G6).
Some Technical Aspects of the Reasoning in Building Mental Maps
The fundamental step in creating mental maps was presented above as an in-
ference from similarity of surface form to similarity of meaning. In one common
8
Interpreted as a synchronic generalization, this last statement may have a marginal exception in
Makah (see Figure 4 and the discussion of it earlier). But the relevant form -pai is not a true
evidential. It is also not an exception to the more sophisticated historical interpretation of this pattern
(see example 15). On general problems of the relation between typology or universals of historical
change and synchronically observed language types, see Greenberg (1978).
Anderson: Evidential, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 281
strong logical
inferential
'must have V-ed
circumstantial
inferential
'seems to have
V-ed'
hearsay
'I hear
tell'
main-predication
'heard'
Figure 1. A partial map of mental space for evidential meanings.
situation this inference is invalid, which we can illustrate with the auditory and
hearsay evidential functions, points (F3) and (G6), in Figure 1. In English these
both use a form of the word hear, derived historically from the perception verb
hear (H5). Examples are (2, 5a,b) and (11a). We are justified in saying that (F3)
is similar to (H5) in meaning, and that (G6) is similar to (H5) in meaning. But we
cannot conclude that (F3) and (G6) are similar to each other in meaning. We
have no examples in which an auditory evidential (G6) changes into a hearsay
evidential (F3), or the reverse. This problem arises whenever a word or gram-
matical form splits into several descendants, whose similarity to each other has
only a historical not a synchronic explanation. Typologically recurring patterns
often have such complex relations to their sources.9
Ideally we would base our maps only on well-studied examples of gradual
meaning change. The fundamental notion would then be not similarity of mean-
ing but derivability of meaning, as in (12):
(12) A new meaning of a form derives from an old one at first only as a
pragmatic inference or extension of use, but later it is reanalyzed to
9
See Greenberg (1978) and other articles in the same volume.
282 Evidentiality in English and in General
become a new core meaning independent of the old one. (This possibility
of extension of use justifies saying that the new and old meanings are
"similar".)
A classic example is in (13),
(13a) He did not want for
food, (archaic)
(13b) He wants food.
(13c) He wants to eat. He wills it thus
(archaic)
(13d) He will eat.
In practice we do not have enough documentation of such meaning changes to
rely on them exclusively. We can combine a small amount of direct historical
evidence with a larger amount of evidence of the simpler kind, derived from a
typological sample. But we must remain on our guard, knowing where we can go
wrong. This compromise procedure is the basis for this study, as it was for the
treatment of the perfect in Anderson 1982. Historical derivability, whether docu-
mented or plausibly hypothesized, is represented by the arrows in (13), as also in
Figures 1 to 10 and 14 to 16.10
True mental space has no fixed number of dimensions, yet the paper we write
on is two-dimensional. This limits how effectively we can display mental maps.
But it is purely a practical limitation.
Building mental maps is very much like doing the kind of multidimensional
scaling familiar in modern sociolinguistics. In sociolinguistics, the points are
individual speakers, who are more or less similar to each other in terms of
various characteristics. For mental maps, the points are particular meanings,
more or less closely related to each other. For mental maps, we do not have
precise mathematical measurements of degree of similarity. But we have an
advantage, in that random statistical variability is a very minor problem. The
meanings and uses of particular linguistic forms are usually established across a
large number of speakers.11
When we extract form-meaning patterns by com-
parative typology, we are in one sense drawing our sample from the largest
10
In example (13) the arrows go only one way, because the historical changes observed go only
one way. Arrows with two heads (or, equivalently, connecting lines with NO arrowheads on the
maps) indicate an equilibrium balanced between two meanings or uses, so that historical changes can
go in either direction.
11
This does not eliminate all sociolinguistic problems in the validity of the data we use. As all
self-conscious analysis of language tends to distort repeatedly in certain ways, our typological
samples of language descriptions will be distorted in these same ways.
* 'lack'
I
'desire'
'intend' *'intend'
I
future
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 283
possible experiment, the result of thousands of years of language use by large
parts of humanity.
The meaning spaces built here are based on natural languages. This can be a
great advantage, because intuitions, abstract logic, and psycholinguistic experi-
ments all introduce artificial distortions. Even where an external "objective"
criterion SEEMS to be available, it may not have the same structure as mental
space. In that case, it is not ' 'objective' ' at all. In a future paper I will argue from
natural-language data that color terms are organized in a semantic space some-
what different from the hue-and-brightness dimensions of Berlin and Kay
(1969). Just as in the multidimensional scaling used by sociolinguists, the dimen-
sions and coordinates of color space should be defined by the discovered struc-
ture of the space. They are results of the analysis, not a precursor to it. Tops and
bottoms of maps may even have different coordinate systems!
Even with only twenty evidential meanings we need AT LEAST three dimen-
sions. Most evidentials fit fairly well in one plane. But evidentials of reported
speech have complex links which require a third dimension. In Figure 2, which
represents major results of this study, we see reportive evidentials as if through a
window, the internal square box. The reportives should be conceived as located
in an area behind the main plane, but linked to it. In the main plane, the
meanings 'conjecture' (G4, English maybe) and 'possibility' (Gl, English may)
are adjacent, as they should be, not interrupted by the reportives.
Questions of basic or core meaning (Grundbedeutung), common meaning
(Gesamtbedeutung), and primary vs. secondary uses of forms are discussed in
Anderson (1982).
We can map evidential systems for individual languages by outlining the
range of use of each surface evidential form with an oval. Since we use the same
base map each time, we can easily compare languages with each other. In this
way we also can test the base map for its claims to universal validity and for any
needed modifications: how easily does it fit the evidentials of new languages not
in the original typological sample?
I will discuss the topics in the following order:
(14a) Perception verbs and sensory evidentials
(14b) Logical expectation and evidentials of reported speech
(14c) Inferential evidentials and reported speech: Jaqaru and Aymara
(14d) Typologically regular asymmetries: Tibeto-Burman
(14c) Evidentially unmarked forms
Throughout the discussion I will illustrate how mental maps can be used both to
clarify synchronic description and to develop hypotheses of historical change. In
the process, we can also refine terminology.
For each evidential morpheme discussed, examples of its use in sentences will
N3
00
VV of
force,
necessity
D 'must', -
'have to'
VV of
social
obliga-
tion
current-relevance
perfect
result-state
perfect
6
location
non-personal
pas( remote
certainty,
strong
•- proba-
bility
prediction,
regularity
strong logical
—*- inferential -*
'must have V-ed'
immediacy
' surprisals
(unprepared
mind)
circumstantial
*~ inferential
'seems to have
V-ed'
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
VERBAL
SOURCE
visual
non-1 st
person
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
progressive
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
¥\gure 2. A. more complete map of mental space for evidential meanings. Arrows show common historical shifts.
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 285
be found in other articles in this volume or in references cited. In some cases,
where such examples were not sufficient to determine exact limits of use, I have
had help from other authors in this volume.12
Perception Verbs and Sensory Evidentials
The difference between perception verbs and evidentials can be very subtle. This
can be seen for English in the first part of this paper, especially in example sets
(5,6, and 7). Structural reanalysis is evidenced by very small changes in surface
form. The most detailed treatment I know of is Gordon's for Maricopa (this
volume). In Maricopa the visual evidential -'yuu lacks the aspectual suffix -k
found on the main verb -yuu-k 'see' from which it is derived. The auditory and
non-visual sensory evidential -'a lacks a passive suffix -v found on the main verb
-'a-v 'hear' from which it is derived. Gordon thus demonstrates that these evi-
dential forms are separate grammatical categories, no longer identical to the main
verbs. When we map Maricopa evidentials onto our evidential space (Figure 3),
the main verbs appear outside the large rectangle, the evidentials inside it, and
the arrows represent the historical changes by which main verbs became eviden-
tials. These two examples just discussed are on the right side of the map.
There is another detailed typological parallel with English worth noting. The
Maricopa hearsay evidential VERB-k-i-sh-'a has an etymological structure
[[[VERB-*]-'say']-'hear'] just like English // hear [ tell [ that VERB ] ] ].1 3
Makah is another language which clearly shows sensory evidentials originat-
ing from perception predicates (Figure 4). Like English evidential hear, three of
these, pi:t, -qadi, and -caqi, usually occur in the present tense, never in the past
tense. The suffix -pat however "clearly has a primarily descriptive value in
describing smells or tastes, but verges on being an evidential which indicates
evidence from these sense modalities in certain examples" (Jacobsen, this vol-
ume, p. 23). So -palis not a true evidential.
Jacobsen cites one type of example which I have not seen elsewhere, and
which can help us to refine concepts and terminology. The auditory inferential in
'it sounds like you're getting fat' (if someone says that their clothes are tight) is
expressed in Makah by -qadi, in opposition to hearsay examples (presumably 'I
hear that he's getting fat') with -wa:t. Accordingly, we should consider -wa:t to
be a hearsay EVIDENTIAL (reporting the content of what one is told), but not an
INFERENTIAL (which, like -qadi, must infer to something beyond that content).
In English, Maricopa, and Makah, sensory evidentials clearly have a percep-
tion-predicate origin. In Kashaya (Figure 5) and Eastern Porno (Figure 6), the
origins of the sensory evidentials are not synchronically obvious.
12
Authors who have been particularly helpful with their comments and corrections of my errors
are Gordon, Jacobsen, Oswalt, Schlichter, and Thurgood. They are, of course, not responsible for
remaining errors.
13
It is possible that there is an additional parallel with Makah, see note 14.
286 Evidentiality in English and in General
Kashaya and Eastern Porno are the two Pomoan languages I used earlier in
example (11) to show how a map of evidential space could be constructed. The
difference between them is visually clear on the maps. Kashaya expresses the
auditory evidential and the non-visual sensory evidential with two different sur-
face forms, while Eastern Porno has a single sensory evidential -inke for both. In
this Eastern Porno resembles Maricopa and Makah, and also Wintun and Sherpa
Tibetan.
The Eastern Porno •ink'e is also used for the first-person experiencer role, with
verbs like 'like', 'afraid', and 'be bitten' (McLendon 1982). Sherpa Tibetan
shows the same extension of its sensory evidential -nok in its stative/durative
(and experiencer) form -i-nok with 'feel sick' and in a punctual/habitual (and
active/agentive) form -ki-nok with 'want to' and 'think' (Woodbury 1982). It is
not surprising that the experiencer role should be related to the sensory evidential
in more than one language.
In Wintu and Patwin (Figures 7 and 8), a verb mute- 'hear' in a "passive"
form *mut-her > -nther has become a non-visual sensory evidential
(Schlichter's analysis for Wintu, accepted by Whistler as cognate in Patwin, both
this volume). The ranges of use are quite similar in the two languages, as seen by
the ovals. The "passive" marking is very possibly connected with the fact that
the speaker has an experiencer case role in this kind of evidential, as we have
seen. Makah may have a passive -t on its hearsay suffix -wa:t and visual eviden-
tial ~pi:t (Jacobsen, this volume).14
To conclude this section, I suggest the following hypotheses:
(15) Non-visual sensory evidentials often arise by weakening and generalization
of an auditory evidential '[I hear] . . .', which (always?) arisesfroma verb
'to hear'.
(16) Possible language patterns with overt morphologically distinct sensory evi-
dentials include the following:
auditory non-visual visual unmarked
sensory (obvious)
0 0 0 0 English?
+ 0 0 0 English?
+ + 0 0 Pomo, Wintu, Patwin, Jaqaru,
Aymara (Sherpa?)
+ + + 0 Kashaya, Maricopa, (Makah?)
(Japanese?) (Lhasa?)
14
Jacobsen's analysis is found on p. 17 and his note 20. There is some possibility that the suffix
on wa: 'to say' and *pi: 'to observe' was actually from a verb *'to hear'. The Nootka auditory
inferential is -'in, which occurs in the "quotative" -wePin, matching Makah -wa:t (Jacobsen). The
first parts of these last two forms are cognate according to Jacobsen. The second parts might therefore
have the same etymological meaning, though not necessarily; this is merely an interesting hypothesis.
00
»4
B
C
VV of
force. certainty,
necessity strong strong logical
D 'must', proba- inferential
'have to' bility 'must have V-ed
VV of
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VV of
ability
'can, may'
prediction,
regularity
expectation
'should be*
'ought
to be*
possibility
'can, may'
nt-relevance
perfect
resuIt-state
perfect
duu
'be1
location
(-Jt imperfective)
progressive
non-personal
pasi remoie
immediacy
surprisals
(unprepared / • ^ v i s u a l
mind) / non-1st
person
circumstantial saw X VERB
inferential
seems to have •'yuu
V-ed'
uncertain
\ visual
myth.
history
/hearsay \
/ '1 hear
general / tell'
reputation
il is «aid' \4c-i-sh-'a
'they sa,'
Q
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
Figure 3. Maricopa evidential space
B
C
VV of
force,
necessity
D 'must'
'have to'
W o f
socjaJ
obliga-
'is sup-
posed to'
W o f
ability
'can, may1
certainty,
strong
proba-
bility
prediction,
regularity
expectation
'should be'
'ought
to be'
possibility
'can, may'
4 5 6
current-relevance result-state
perfect perfect location
nan-personal
past remote rbelated realization
'turned out to be
-°a-PRO-škub
-pi:t
lUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals!
ST
5
£
5
/
general air /
reputation -wa:t
"it is said'
"they say'
Figure 4.
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
Makah evidential space
progressive
Ist-person
agent
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
SENSES/
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 289
Logical Expectation and Evidentials of Reported Speech
We must distinguish several different kinds of reported speech, because one or
more languages in our sample express these with distinct surface forms. In this
area of meanings, however, technical terminology is not well developed. Some
authors have used the term "hearsay" for all reportives. But this conflicts with
the ordinary-language sense of "hearsay": a more specific unreliability of the
information, often from a weak or single source. We need to retain the term in its
ordinary-language sense for that specific meaning, as distinct from other kinds of
reported speech. To do otherwise causes needless confusion and erects needless
barriers between laymen and specialists. We need thus to distinguish AT LEAST
four kinds of reportives: (a) hearsay, (b) general reputation, (c) myth and history
(these three being evidentials), and (d) "quotative" (marginally an evidential).15
These are placed toward the left on our maps of evidential space.
We have already seen how a true hearsay evidential can arise from a main
verb 'say' (plus 'hear'), in Maricopa, Makah, and English. Reportive evidentials
also arise from forms expressing logical expectation or necessity. The range of
meanings is clearly shown by the German word soil:
Er soil es tun. 'He should do it'
Er sollte kônig werden. 'He was destined to be king.
Ich hâtte es tun sollen. 'I should have done it.'
Root modal:
(17a) (obligation)
(17b) (past expectation)
(17c) (counterfactual)
Epistemic modal:
(17d) (general reputation) Er soil sehr gelehrt sein. 'He is reputed to be very
learned.'
(17e) (general reputation) Er soil es getan haben. 'He is said to have done it.'
Wintu (Figure 7) shows two morphemes shifting from meanings of logical
expectation to reportive evidential senses. Both Schlichter and Pitkin state that
this change is historically observable. The form -?el originally indicated expecta-
tion,16
based on knowledge of what normally or repeatedly happens in the world:
15
I have tried to use the examples offered in the papers at hand to determine the exact uses of
forms; obviously I have not been able to do this completely. There seems as yet to be no good term
for the full range of evidentials indicating evidence from verbal communication. I have used "repor-
tive" here, where Jacobsen uses "quotative". Jacobsen points out (p. 8) that "quotative" also has
differing uses. 1 use it in the restrictive ordinary-language sense, only to refer to a form meaning
'This is what X said', what Jacobsen calls "a kind of spoken quotation mark (like Sanskrit Hi)."
16
Pitkin's term "experiential" is, as Schlichter notes, subject to confusion with experiencer
case. "Experiencer" is needed in its normal use in discussing evidential systems like those of Eastern
Pomo and Sherpa. While experience is indeed the SOURCE of knowledge of regularly recurring
events, the MEANING of the grammatical form is rather one of expectation (the mental state resulting
from the knowledge). For yet a third distinct use of the term "experiential," see note 21. The term
"expectation" is more exact than "prediction", as Schlichter has taught me.
VV of
force,
necessity
D 'must'
'have to'
VV of
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VV of
ability
'can, may'
CAUSATION
(root
modals)
certainty,
strong
proba-
bility
prediction,
regularity
expectation
'should be'
'ought
to be'
possibility
'can, may*
non-personal
past remote
V^W-w
strong logical
inferential
'must have V-ed'
myth,
history
•do hearsay
'I hear
general tell'
reputation
it is said'
"(hey say"
circumstantial
inferential
'seems to have
V-ed'
intuitions
'seems to me'
'I feel' 'smell' ^ ,
+ -qâ
\
I
non-visual J
sensory
evidential ,
conjecture
'maybe'
cVnnâ auditory
evidential
)
main-predication
'X heard'
PREDICTION
(epistemic
modals)
Figure S.
VERBAL
SOURCE
INFERENCE EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(induction, evidence (both inference
is not mentioned) and evidence)
Kashaya evidential space (in the' past, -yow neutralizes -yà, -qâ, and - Vnnâ)
appearance
expenencer
role
1st person
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
VVof
force,
necessity
D 'must'
'have to'
VVof
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VVof
ability
'can, may'
certainty,
strong
proba-
bility
prediction,
regularity
expectation
'should be'
'ought
to be'
possibility
'can, may'
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
current-relevance
perfect
5 6 7
result-state 'extentive' -e-
perfect location progressive
non-personal
pasl remote
circumstantial
inferential
'seems to have
y V-ed'
myth,
history
-te hearsay
'I hear
general tell'
reputation
'i[ is said' -•le-xa
"they say'
weak
inferen-
tial
conjecture
'maybe'
•ya immediacy
indicative, state, predictive
future
surprisals
(unprepared
mind)
visual
non-1st
person
uncertain
visual
VERBAL
SOURCE
Figure 6.
main-predication
'X heard'
INFERENCE EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(induction, evidence (both inference
is not mentioned) and evidence)
Eastern Pomo evidential space
lst-person
agent
appearance
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
292 Evidentiality in English and in General
(18) "The berries [must] be ripe now' (because it's that time of year, not because I've
seen them).
A form ?el also is used to express generic existence. A link of these two uses
finds a typological parallel in Tibetan (discussed below).
Recently -?el has come to be used as a kind of reportive, perhaps of the
general reputation type, as an older evidential -ke- was absorbed in combinations
with the conditional kila and completive kir.
The form -kEl has links to potentials and conditionals (Schlichter's discus-
sion). It might derive from a verb meaning * 'should', to judge by the possible
typological parallel of (17).
Eastern Porno has a suffix -le as a reportive evidential (McLendon 1982),
extended as -le-xa in some uses. Certain irrealis forms contain what may origi-
nally have been the same morpheme, in a symmetrical pattern:
(19) (Eastern Pomo) Jussive -ba?
Subjunctive -bcPe-le
Indicative -ya
Conditional -ya^e-le
Apparent cognates in some other Pomo languages have a conditional meaning
(Oswalt, personal communication). Although belonging to different language
families, Eastern Pomo and Wintu are geographic neighbors. The strong re-
semblances in both function and phonological form of -'•'el and -(>e)le demand
study.
Patwin (Figure 8) shows similar historical developments. The verb meaning
'become', which in the present gives a result-state perfect, is used in the future
form -bo-ti for prediction and expectation, and this is extended into reportive
evidential functions. v
Inferential Evidentials and Reported Speech: Jaqaru and Aymara
Jaqaru (Figure 9) and Aymara (Figure 10) have no obvious sensory evidentials of
the kind we have seen in California. But they have greatly elaborated their
inferential and logical evidentials (the left and upper left portions of the maps).
Jaqaru shows a gradient of fine distinctions as we move from upper left down
towards the right: +qa, +qilli; +psa, +psilli; +ja, +jilli; +jashi; +ashi.
These go from strong certainty to the weakest kind of conjecture, and differ also
in the kind of evidence implied.
Here we can clearly see how using these maps to compare languages can help
in discovering plausible etymological connections. (Two of the following were
noted by Hardman, this volume.)
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 293
strong
inferential
weak
intuitions 'probable' reportive
Jaqaru
Aymara
+psa
—pacha
+ashi
— chi
+qa
+xa
—chi+xa
+mna
—chi+m
These languages distinguish "non-personal" (unwitnessed) from "person-
al" (witnessed) pasts. This opposition overlaps partly with the distinction be-
tween Perfect and Simple Past in English.17
The English Perfect in sometimes
called an "indefinite past", and is sometimes used when what is reported is
inferred, not personally witnessed (John [must have] arrived.). The "non-per-
sonal" and Perfect are in each language the more marked form: Aymara -tay-na
vs. -na, English has baked vs. baked.
Aymara divides reportive evidentials, the inner square of the map, into four
(!) categories. It links myth/history with non-witnessed remote pasts; it links
general reputation with quotative, literal 'said'; and it links true hearsay with
weak inferences. Third-hand information is expressed as a combination of non-
witnessed remote past with weak inference.
These links and contrasts lock parts of the map into their relative positions.
True hearsay must be placed closer to the sensory/inferential evidentials, while
general reputation must be placed closer to quotative and, as shown for Wintu
and Patwin (Figures 7 and 8), closer to prediction and expectation. The entire
map has been arranged using such procedures.
Typologically Regular Asymmetries: Tibeto-Burman
Tibeto-Burman evidentials are embedded in a complex morphological paradigm.
Evidentiality interacts with other grammatical categories such as person, partici-
pant role, tense and aspect, and does so in an asymmetrical manner. The analyses
presented here emphasize these other categories, attributing specifically eviden-
tial values to very few forms.
The asymmetries will be treated typologically, by seeking to show that the
SAME asymmetries occur in many languages, and suggesting explanations from
pragmatic meanings. Mental processes can also produce symmetry within one
language. Either symmetry or asymmetry can be regular, typologically
recurring.
Lhasa Tibetan and Sherpa are closely related languages. Lhasa patterns are in
17
A detailed comparison would be most interesting. The Jaqaru/Aymara distinction of four past
forms, personal vs. non-personal and near vs. remote, would be a good place to refine the map of
mental space for the perfect presented in Anderson (1982).
5
B
C
VVof
force,
necessity
D 'must'
'have to'
generic
existence
•>el
VV of
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VVof
ability
'can, may'
certainty,
strong
proba-
bility
possibility
'can, may'
/strong logical
/ inferential
l'must have V-ed'
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
VERBAL
SOURCE
(current-relevance
perfect
result-state
perfect ( location ^ progressive
non-personal
past remote
<*-r wine
/(now has lost
myth.
expectation, \ I its evidential myth.
regularity ^\function) history
V "'e/
\
^v-ke-
hearsay
/ -kel X^ \ i hear
expectation ^ v general ^v N. tell' J
'should be' reputation 1
'nnrht .• -.. - j , J
NytO be' they sayV/
circumstantial
inferential
'seems to have
V-ed'
weak
inferen-
tial
conjecture
'maybe'
immediacy
surprisals
(unprepared
mind)
intuitions
'seems to me'
T feel'
(includes dreams)
•nther
<*-mut-her
'hear' + passive
visual
non-1st
person
uncertain
visual
non-visual
sensory
evidential
auditory
evidential
ition 1
main-predicatit
X heard' J
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inferential
and evidence)
Figure 7. Wintu evidential space
D
Ist-person
agent
expenencer
role
1st person
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
1 st-person
agent
appearance
expenencer
role
1st person
[ irrealis ]
\ conjecture /
\ * maybe' y
auditory
evidential
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
main-predication
'X heard'
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence
no inference)
Figure 8. Patwin evidential space
VVof
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VVof
ability
'can, may'
\-Uli emphatic)
/past
\tense
D
possibility
'can, may'
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
+ used with sentence suffixes;
— with verb tenses
current-relevance
perfect
non-personal near
past -ka-ta
(near past personal
result-state "\_
perfect
XT) C^Ç)
J y tense -ki J
surprisals
(unprepared«,
mind)
/ hearsay
/ "I hear
expectation / general / tell"
'should be' [ reputation /
'ought 1 'it is said' /
to be' \ 'they say' /
location
present
tense
progressive
immediacy
visual
non-1st
uncertain
visual
non-visual
sensory
evidential
auditory
evidential
lst-person
agent
far past
personal
y
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
main-predication
'X heard'
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
Figure 9. Jaqaru evidential space
appearance
expenencer
role
1st person
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
to
VV of
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VV of
ability
'can, may'
prediction,
regularity
expectation
'should be'
'ought
to be'
possibility
'can, may'
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
+ marks sentence suffixes
- marks verb-tense suffixes
current-relevance
perfect
non-personal
past remote
quotative
^sasaw ni ^ S
result-state
perfect
surprisals
(unprepared
mind)
6
location
immediacy
visual
non-1 st
person
uncertain
visual
non-visual
sensory
evidential
auditory
evidential
VERBAL
SOURCE
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
main-predication
'X heard'
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
Figure 10. Aymara evidential space
progressive
1 st-person
agent
far past
personal
appearance
expenencer
role
1st person
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
298 Evidentiality in English and in General
Figures 11 and 12. Data in Figure 11 is from Goldstein and Nornang (1970), in
phonemic transcription. Data in Figure 12 is from DeLancey (this volume and to
appear), in traditional orthography. There are slight dialect differences between
these two sources. Sherpa patterns are in Figure 13. The data is from Woodbury
(1981) and Schôttelndreyer (1975).
Figures 11 to 13 have the same arrangement, so that forms in corresponding
cells are functionally matched. The most specifically evidential forms are in
columns (C) and (Ev) at the far left and right sides, and in rows (9) and (10).
The predictive evidentials of columns (C) at the far left, Lhasa -reè and
Sherpa -wi, are used to make statements about habitual actions or universally
known truths for which no immediate evidence is used, such as 'We make cheese
from milk', or example (18) 'The berries must be ripe now' (because it's that
time of year, not because I've seen them). These two forms might possibly be
historically related: sound correspondences /r ~ w ~ 7/ do exist (Thurgood
1982), though possibly not relevant here.
In columns (Ev) at the right, Lhasa -tuul-tuq- (rows 3,4,6) and Sherpa -nok
indicate the existence of some kind of evidence, as in 'The berries are ripe now'
(because I've seen or tasted them). These two forms are almost certainly related,
as the Jirel language (Strahm 1975) has a pattern very much like Sherpa but with
-duk, phonologically like the Lhasa form.18
Several of the other morphemes are clearly cognate between the two lan-
guages. In the simple past, Lhasa -su/sorj- is Sherpa and Jirel -swrj.19
Lhasa
rows (4) and (6) -qi- is Sherpa and Jirel -ki-.
In the first-person forms of columns (F, Fcr, Rec) Lhasa has a clear three-way
opposition based on aspect and participant role. Although these have evidential
implications, they are not primarily evidentials. They are most easily understood
if we think of them as yin derived from * 'go', yod derived from * 'be here' (? <
*'have come'), and -yut} from *'come'. Both Tibetan data and typological
parallels support this analysis.
Lhasa 'go' isp'yin and 'come' isjorj (DeLancey, passim), showing obvious^
similarities to the verbal inflections. The forms of column (Rec) indicate a
participant role as receiver, what DeLancey calls non-agentive including all
dative-subject verbs but many others besides such as 'find' and 'remember'. An
etymology from 'come' is obviously reasonable.
Typological parallels support * 'go' as an origin for many futures, pasts, and
progressives (note Sherpa row 5 in Figure 13, and the upper right part of Figure
17). In the sense 'become', this could easily have given rise to a copula (Sherpa
row 1), possibly accounting historically for all instances of Sherpa -in and 'in.
18
Jirel has -kio where Sherpa has -ki-wi. Jirel has -sur), -in, etc.
19
Compare classical Tibetan rjo sorj 'I came/went', which may be an s-causative form of
'orj/yon 'come'; DeLancey (to appear) refers to son as a supplétive perfective of the verb 'to go'; an
s-perfective of 'come' is also possible.
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 299
It is likely that the forms of column (Fcr) which signal current relevance also
derive from a form of *'come', possibly a perfect 'to have come'.
(21a) DeLancey Lhasa yod 'current relevance' (orthographic d
here indicates palatalization)
Goldstein and Lhasa yôô
Nornang
Origin? *yoq-i
(21b) Sherpa 'woi auxiliary of temporary state
from wo- past stem of hmyup 'come'
(Woodbury 1981:12)
(21c) Lhasa pa-yôô past reportive evidentials
(2Id) Sherpa -up-i[nok]
It appears that Lhasa -yôô either contained an old suffix -i (21a,b) or else
corresponds to -i- (21c,d). Within Sherpa, certain verb stems which Woodbury
refers to as "involuntary" (1981 note 6) contain -i- where most verbs use -ki-,
the latter clearly related to the verb 'do', DeLancey's Lhasagi-, Sherpa ki-. This
last opposition is no longer productive, and a complete list of verbs using -i- is
needed. (The verb stem wo- in (21b) might also be related to a verb 'be, exist,
live' frequent in texts, appropriate to the meaning of 'woi.)
Typological parallels from unrelated or distantly related languages can be
helpful. Compare the Chinese le perfect-of-current-relevance derived from a
verb meaning 'come', lâi in Mandarin (Li, Thompson and Thompson 1982 note
6, Anderson 1982:234, 239).20
Lhasa (Figure 11) shows a very interesting split between column (Ev+)
(positive assertion) and column (EvQ) (questioning, negation), which we can
explain as follows. Claims about third-person subjects which the speaker has
actually observed may be evidentially unmarked as in some other languages
(column Ev+). But when questioning or negating such a claim, evidence is more
in the forefront of thinking, and the auxiliary -tuq- of temporary state (ty-
pological analog of Spanish estar) is used in an evidential function (column
EvQ). The Tibetan uses are obligatory, grammaticalized into paradigms. The
same asymmetry exists in English, even though it is not an obligatory category.
20
There are also some intriguing possibilities for cognates. With Mandarin lui 'come' compare
Sherpa la 'raise' plus the -i- under discussion. Sherpa la is used to express the occurrence (arising) of
an emotion or feeling.
The "version" prefixes of the verb in Georgian (a South Caucasian language) are single vowels.
One pair i/a are most directional and linked to person (1st, 2nd/3rd), which as agents in the Georgian
"Perfect" perhaps come closest to Tibetan functions. Sumerian directional forms may also be
considered. In both these cases, origins as *'go' vs. *'come' are likely.
U)
o
o
Fer
c F first-person Exp Ev+ EvQ
certain, first current expenencer evidenced evidenced
predicted person relevance (1st p.) positive questioned
1 copula, ownership (essential attributes) +
Wh
Q
ree
ree
re-pee
y"
2 location, existence, having (accidental attributes) +
Wh
Q
+
Wh
Q
y30-reè yôo
yoo
yo-peè
tuù tuù
tuq-èé
3 perfect (past still manifest in present)
+
Wh
Q
+
Wh
Q
-yaà-reè
-yab-ree
-yôo -chu
-churj
-šaa
-too
-tuq-éé
4 present (especially habitual; imperfective) +
Wh
Q
-qi-ysà-reè
-qi-yo5-ree
-qi-yôô ( = 04) -qii
-qi-tôô
-qi-tuq-èé
5 (not distinguished from 4 imperfective)
6 future +
Wh
Q
-qi-reè
-qi-ree
-qi-yïi (= F6) -paa
-pa-tuù
-pa-tuq-éè
7 past (perfective) +
Wh
Q
-P3-VÏÏ -chu
-chun-
-su
-sôô
-sorj-ee
9 present reportive (hearsay, general knowledge,
folklore)
+
Wh
-pa-reè
-pa-ree
10 past reportive (3rd-person agent told lst-person) + -pa-yôo
Data from Goldstein and Nornang (1970)
Whenever examples were available, two forms are given: the simple positive in the first row of each cell, and the form for WH-question in the second row. Yes/no-
question forms "Q" are illustrated once in columns (C) and (Fcr), but given everywhere in column (EvQ) to show morphophonemic change.
Figure 11. Lhasa Tibetan evidential
C
certain,
predicted
F
first
person
Fcr
first-person
current
relevance
Rec/Exp
receiver/
toward 1st
experiencer
(1st p.)
Ev
evidenced
1 copula, ownership, 'be' (essential attributes) red yin
2 location, existence, having, 'be at' (accidental attributes)
yod 'dug
3 perfect
-yuo b=šag
4 present (imperfective) -gi-yod
5 (not distinguished from 4 imperfective)
6 future -gi-red -gi-yin
7 past (perfective)
-pa-yin
9 present reportive -pa-red
10 past reportive (C9) here?
Data from DeLancey (this volume and to appear)
There is not enough information to distinguish the meanings of forms in (Ev3) and (C9) or (CIO)
Three probable historical morpheme boundaries which are not opaque have been marked with (=).
Co
o
Figure 12. Lhasa Tibetan evidential
U)
o
to
Fer
c F first-person Exp O
certain, first current experiencer temporary Ev
predicted person relevance (lst-p.) state event evidence
I copula, ownership (essential attributes) 'in 'nok
2 location, existence, having (accidental attributes) -wi -i-nok 'woi 'nok
3 perfect Pst)'woi
(result state)
(PSt) -nok
(inferential)
4 present
iterative/habitual
-i-wi
-ki-wi
-i-wi
(-ki-nok)
(non-P.St)'woi
(state)
-i-nok
-ki-nok
5 progressive and presaged future -in ki-wiq -in 'woi -ki-nokq
6 future -ki-wi
-i-wi
-in -i-wi (Ev6) here? -up-nok
(only 1st
person)
(determined
to)
7 past (perfective) (PSt)-in (PSt)-sun (PSt)-surj (PSt)-nok
(inferential
includes 3rd-
pers.
experiencer)
9 present reportive -up-i-nok (Fcr 9) here?
10 past reportive (PSt)-up-i-nok (FcrlO) here?
Data from Woodbury (1981) and Schottelndreyer (1975).
Verbal inflections are added to the non-past stem unless marked with "PSt" for past stem. The result-state form in cell (03) is only in Schottelndreyer; Woodbury
has (04) instead.
Figure 13. Sherpa evidentials
(Rec/Exp) (Ev)
(C) (F) (Fcr) non-visual (O) visual
expected expected unexpected unexpected unexpected unexpected
non-1 st 1st person 1st person (1st?) non-1st (non-1st?)
1
2
3
4 non-past (me) ma é (na) â flâ
5 all-the-time, non-surprise? (progressive, imperfective?) mia rjâa
6 prediction, assumption, non-knowledge rh na
7 past me ma è na à rjà
8 past all-the-time, non-surprise? (progressive,
imperfective?)
mîâ rjàâ
Data from Egerod and Hansson (1974:228) and from Thurgood
Parentheses enclose two forms in three-way oppositions where 1 suspect innovations compared to the Tibetan material, to fit the Akha system of oppositions.
With column (F) compare the verb ma 'be real, true' and the adverb mâmâ 'really, surely' (suggestion from Hansson reported by Thurgood).
Figure 14. Akha sentence particles
o
304 Evidentiality in English and in General
(22a) (positive) He has arrived. (no evidential)
(22b) (questioned) Can you tell if he has arrived? (evidential function:
'Is there any evidence present that he has arrived?')
Thus the forms of columns (C) and (EvQ) in Figure 11 are true evidentials,
while the other forms are probably evidentially unmarked. Note that in the past
tense (row 7, cells Ev+7 and EvQ7) there is no use of evidential -tuq-. This is a
parallel to Kashaya, where most pasts (not perfects) are neutralized into a single
form -yowâ without evidential distinctions. Again an asymmetry. For Sherpa,
the most important difference between this analysis and Woodbury's lies in the
decision to classify -sag as evidentially unmarked.21
Forms in columns (Ev) are not usually used with first-person subjects. When
they are, they have a special sense, as in 'I must be sick', which is a surprise for
the speaker. Or they may indicate the non-deliberate nature of the event. The first
person was a cause but not a deliberate agent, as in the verbs 'lose, forget, break,
spill, cause to fall' or at least not a direct agent, since all derived causatives are in
this class (DeLancey, to appear, used the term "non-voluntary"). The ety-
mology of -sarj itself as 'cause to come/go' fits this (see note 19).
Consider now Akha, a Lolo-Burmese language in the Tibeto-Burman family.
Its sentence particles are shown in Figure 14. The arrangement here is again
different from that of Egerod and Hansson (1974:227-8) or Thurgood, although
it is consistent with the uses they report for the forms. They presented a system
symmetrical WITHIN Akha; the arrangement here is asymmetrical, but with asym-
metries matching almost exactly those of Sherpa, and corresponding column and
row labels are added in parentheses. Note that among the "non-sensorial"
particles (columns C, F, Fcr and O) those labeled "expected" include the first
two, which in Tibetan represented certain knowledge and prediction. Among the
"sensorial" particles, which we may take as denoting knowledge linked to
temporary conditions rather than pure reasoning (columns Rec/Exp and Ev), the
terms "expected/non-expected" were also used by Egerod and Hansson. But
here "expected" covers meanings like 'all the time, non-intermittent' and 'non-
surprise' and 'luckily' as opposed to their opposites. I have tentatively consid-
ered the "visual expected" and non-visual expected to be analogous to Sherpa
progressives, and placed them in rows (5) and (8), without examples to verify
this in detail.
There are several possible cognates with the Tibetan material. Column
(Rec/Exp) na might match Sherpa -i-nok.22
Column (O) â might match the a of
21
This is a principled analysis, matching a similar decision by Schlichter for Wintu, discussed in
the next section.
22
Akha na might also be compared with classical Tibetan nan- 'hear, obey' and its relatives.
Benedict and Matisoff (1972) reconstruct Tibeto-Burman *g-na 'hear'. Thurgood derives the na
'will' of immediate intention and purpose from an attested auxiliary verb 'can, able'. But if Figure 14
cell (Exp6) is like Sherpa cell (Ev6), referring to one's own inner feelings or intentions as EVIDENCE
for what one will do, a different origin is implied as hypothesis.
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 305
Lhasa -šaa, -paa, or Sherpa 'woi. Column (Ev) na might match Sherpa -nok or
else the /rj/ in Sherpa 'meq-gup-in 'there are not' where the initial m- is the
negation (Schôttelndreyer and Schôttelndreyer 1973:77, 80), a verb present also
in classical Tibetan mqa?- 'having', I would assume.
Thurgood identifies Akha é with Tibetan yin < *yin, a "morpheme found
throughout Tibeto-Burman associated with imperfective and/or futurity"
(1982:75), though functionally the match seems better to Lhasa yoo. In the
Bodo-Garo language Nocte there is a form -min 'future' which Thurgood de-
composes as m plus *-yin, and we might similarly decompose Akha me into *m-
yin.
Tibetan evidentials are mapped in Figures 15 (Lhasa) and 16 (Sherpa).
Evidentially Unmarked Forms
Not every morpheme which has evidential implications is an evidential. For
some languages, the absence of an overt evidential in ongoing present situations
has led investigators to label an imperfective aspect marker as an evidential
"witnessed present". I do not adopt that approach here (see the definition in
(3c)), but rather agree with Schlichter's position on Wintu (this volume, note 12
following Pitkin 1963:173): The suffix -bEy- conveys imperfect aspect, not (as
Dorothy Lee would have it) a visual evidential. In present-tense contexts, it
pragmatically implies visual evidence if not used with another evidential. On the
same basis I have considered Kashaya -wâ to be an imperfective, not an eviden-
tial, and Jaqaru-Aymara +wa to be a stative or imperfective auxiliary, not an
evidential.23
Similarly, certain past markers (mainly punctual) have been taken as past
witnessed evidentials. For Aymara, the suffix -na is said to mark a personally
witnessed or experienced remote past, but "in combinations, the remote is -Vna
and is unmarked for data source." It seems more in accord with pragmatic reality
to say that -na is always unmarked for data source, but in the absence of an
evidential to the contrary, it takes the unmarked value, direct personal
knowledge.
Exactly this same reasoning led to classifying Sherpa -sun. as a simple past,
evidentially unmarked. Kashaya -yowâ also shows neutralization to a single form
in the simple past, with loss of evidential distinctions.
Specifically VISUAL evidential morphemes are actually quite rare. Perhaps
this is because the most common evidence is visual and thus need not be specifi-
cally noted.
The limitations of definition (3c) are necessary in order to avoid including as
"evidentials" forms which have little in common with typical evidentials, either
in their functions or in their etymological origins.
23
Since "the surface placement of +wa is determined by the underlying question" (Hardman,
this volume), it appears to be a copular focus marker.
B
C
VV of
force,
necessity
D 'must'
have to'
VV of
social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to'
VV of
ability
'can, may'
certainty,
strong
proba-
bility
prediction,
regularity
-reè
expectation
'should be'
'ought
to be'
possibility
'can, may'
f current-relevance
perfect
'it looks as if ^
X will VERB
3rd or 1st
-paa
Q-pz-tuq-
strong logical
inferential
'must have V-ed'
non-personal
past remote
1st -yôô
?Mst -Šaa
Q-tuq-
mylh.
hisiory
s. jT reè
N
\
\
hearsay i
'I hear .
/ general tell'/
/ reputation
1 'il is said'
\ 'they say' j<
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
VERBAL
SOURCE
circumstantial
inferential
'seems to have
V-ed1
weak
inferen-
tial
conjecture
'maybe'
result state
perfect J \location tuq-J
surprisals
(unprepared
mind)
^
intuitions
'seems to me'
'I feel'
immediacy
1st yôô
^ 1 st tuit
Qtuq-
visual
non-1st
person
uncertain
visual
non-visual
sensory
evidential
auditory
evidential
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
main-predication
'X heard'
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
Figure 15. Lhasa Tibetan evidential space
'progressive
1 st-person
agent
appearance
expenencer
role
1st person
'passive'
= non-
voluntary
-chu
•chux$-
experiencer
non-1 st person
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
VV of
F social
obliga-
tion
'is sup-
posed to
G VV of
ability
CAUSATION PREDICTION
(root (epistemic
modals) modals)
INFERENCE
(induction, evidence
is not mentioned)
EXPERIENTIAL INFERENCE
(both inference
and evidence)
EXPERIENCE
(direct evidence,
no inference)
Figure 16. Sherpa evidential space
308 Evidentiality in English and in General
EVIDENTIALS, MOOD, AND MODALITY
Typologically Regular Asymmetries and Suppletion
Some of the asymmetrical links of evidentials with person and tense in Tibetan
need to be seen in a wider context. Typological parallels indicate that these can
be a matter of mood as well as of evidentiality. The results of a survey of
moods,24
especially in Indo-European, are summarized in the mental map of
Figure 17. Toward the top of this map we have at least four different origins for a
general future form. The so-called "future" category of particular languages can
be a supplétive combination of these different origins.
Thus Latin futures in 3sg. -et of some conjugations have 1st sg. forms -am
with /a/, not Id. These Isg. forms are said to be "borrowed" from the sub-
junctive, which has consistent 3sg. -at and Isg. -am. But a Isg. future has a
different kind of "future" meaning from a future of other persons. A speaker can
make a statement about his own future action merely by deciding to 'do' it, while
for another person's future action the speaker needs to present evidence that the
person 'is going to do' it. The asymmetry has a basis in practical conditions.
The Tibetan futures are also supplétive by person. In Figures 11 to 13, cells
(C6) and (F6) can perhaps be explained approximately as 'will', predictive for
the third person, but deliberate action of the 1st person, thus using different
auxiliaries. Cells (06) and (Ev6) can be rendered as 'is going to' and 'am going
to' (current evidence about the future). The difference between third and first-
person futures is quite similar to the Latin one.25
Many of the asymmetries in the Tibeto-Burman and other evidential systems
thus seem to derive historically from systems whose primary use is not
evidential.
Evidentials, Modality, and Mood: System Overlap
Many meanings which interact strongly with evidentials have appeared as labels
along the boundaries of maps (Figures 2 to 10, 15 and 16). I now offer some
interpretation of the overall map coordinates and dimensions, and delimit the
semantic nature of evidentials in contrast to other systems. This requires very
precise use of terminology.
The lower margin of Figures 2 to 10, 15 and 16 is the primary evidential
dimension. Roughly, sources of evidence may be direct experience (at the right),
or logical reasoning (at the left), or a combination of the two.
24
Relying on Hahn (1953) and several studies of single languages.
25
This assumes that the Latin futures in -e- are derived from an auxiliary suffix * 'be going to',
consistent with Hirt's idea that Indo-European optatives go back to such a periphrasis. The Latin
"Imperfect Subjunctive" in -re is generally recognized as derived from an optative in the form *-se-,
with this same lei vowel. Following Hirt we can take this as from *-s-yeH, the future from *-yeH,
both to be compared with the verb 'go', *-yaH as it would be written these days. This will be
discussed in detail in a forthcoming study of close relations between Latin, Armenian, and Old Irish
conjugations.
occurring will,intention ability,
obligation
'want to'
\
anticipation,
purpose 'to, for'
prediction
past
habitual-
iterative
('imperfect')
prohibitive,
neg. jussive
/
negative
past
/
past
strongly ,
affirmed
past weakly
affirmed,
questioned
potential wish
'might' (realis)
'could'
relative
future
in past
'was going
to, would'
'was able'
= 'could' 'wanted to'
predictive
in past
O contexts
Figure 17.
>uld have' 'could have' Ineffective 'would have'
'might have' 'tried to' (prediction, didn't)
A mental space of moods and modalities
310 Evidentiality in English and in General
actuality
(what world)
mood/assertion
(asserted,
conceived)
aspect evidentiality
(kind of
evidence)
modality
(strength
of evidence
or cause)
reason
[recurring]
generic tense
habitual,
permanent state
[actual]
[present]
[indicative]
asserted
[progressive]
[temporary state
or location]
(unmarked)
[direct
knowledge]
no inference
necessary
(unmarked)
obvious facts
[past]
directly
witnessed
[perfective]
'am going to'
foreshadowed
relative future
[perfect]
[inceptive]
[inference from
particular kinds
or evidence]
probable
(obligation,
intention)
facts
and
logic
[non-actual]
non-witnessed
future or past
[prediction]
(future)
[optative]
[counterfactual]
or other
hypothetical
non-actual
[subjunctive]
conceived,
envisaged,
non-asserted
[inference]
evidence
unspecified
possible
'may, can'
[logical
deduction]
no evidence
(epistemic
modals)
certain
'must'
(causation)
pure
logic
Figure 18. Correlated systems: actuality, mood/assertion, aspect, evidentiality,
modality
The left margin of the same Figures also appears in a different form along the
top of Figure 17, because certain meanings (especially root modals related to
causality such as 'should', 'can', and 'must') give rise both to predictive eviden-
tials and to moods and modalities (see the earlier section "logical expectation
and evidentials of reported speech").
We can systematically define the core areas of six relevant dimensions in
(23), and show some correlations and interactions in Figure 18.
(23a) actuality—what is the claim or proposition about? A present actuality, another
real-world past or future, or a hypothetical world?
Anderson: Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps 311
(23b) mood/assertion—is a claim made at all, or is a proposition merely envisaged as a
possibility?
(23c) aspect—what phase of an event is a claim made about?
i) result (perfect)
precursor ('is going to')
ii) entire event (perfective)
durative, unchanging situation (imperfective)
(23d) evidentiality—what kind of evidence is available for a claim?
(only relevant to realis claims)
(23e) modality—what is the degree of certainty or kind of CAUSAL sourcefromwhich
one makes a predictive claim
(23f) person (in part)—who is able to make claims of particular kinds?
The scales of Figure 18 suggest how several small mental spaces such as
Figures 2 and 17 correlate with each other. Note that Figure 18 shows a close
relation between the pair "actuality" and "mood/assertion", and a close rela-
tion between the pair "evidentiality" and "modality".26
Aspect relates to both
of these. These correlations do not necessarily imply that meanings in one
column can change directly into correlated meanings in another column, though
that is sometimes true. Rather, similar content words can be grammaticalized in
different ways in different semantic areas. Modalities and evidentials can have
common origins.
The semantic spaces and historical meaning shifts studied in this paper sug-
gest one program for the future, as we try to find out how people think and what
they think about.
REFERENCES
Anderson, Lloyd. 1982. The 'perfect' as a universal and as a language-particular category. In
Hopper, éd., pp. 227-264.
Barnes, Janet. 1984. Evidentials in the Tuyuca verb. International Journal of American Linguistics
50.255-271. [received as this paper was going to press]
Benedict, Paul K. and James A. Matisoff. 1972. Sino-Tibetan: A conspectus. Cambridge University
Press.
Berlin, Brent and Paul Kay. 1969. Basic color terms, their universality and evolution. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
DeLancey, Scott, (to appear). Categories of non-volitional actor in Lhasa Tibetan.
Egerod, Soren and Inge-lill Hansson. 1974. An Akha conversation on death and funeral. Acta
Orientalia 36.225-284.
Given, Talmy. 1981. Evidentiality and epistemic space. Paper for the Evidentials symposium,
University of California at Berkeley.
26
Under the influence of evidential space, I am inclined to put absolute LOGICAL certainty at the
opposite pole of the modality scale from the EMPIRICALLY obvious. These are the left and right
extreme columns of Figures 11 to 14. From some other points of view (Givon 1982) they would be
closely related, since both kinds of assertion claim to be beyond doubting or questioning.
312 Evidentiality in English and in General
Goldstein, Melvyn C. and Nawang L. Nornang. 1970. Modern spoken Tibetan: Lhasa dialect.
Seattle: University of Washington Press.
Greenberg, Joseph H. 1978. Diachrony, synchrony, and language universals. Universals of human
language, vol. 1, ed. by Joseph H. Greenberg, pp. 61-91. Stanford, California: Stanford
University Press.
Hahn, E. Adelaide. 1953. Subjunctive and optative: their origin as futures. New York: American
Philological Association.
Hale, Austin, ed. 1975. Collected papers on Sherpa and Jirel. Nepal Studies in Linguistics II.
Kirtipur: Summer Institute of Linguistics. Institute of Nepal and Asian Studies, Tribhuvan
University.
Hopper, Paul, ed. 1982. Tense and Aspect: between Semantics and Pragmatics, Amsterdam: John
Benjamins B. V.
Li, Charles, Sandra A. Thompson, and R. MacMillan Thompson. 1982. The discourse motivation
for the perfect aspect: the Mandarin particle le. in Hopper ed. pp. 19-44.
Lyons, John. 1966. Towards a "notional" theory of the parts of speech. Journal of Linguistics
2.209-236.
McLendon, Sally. 1981. Evidentials in Eastern Porno. Paper for the Evidentials symposium, Univer-
sity of California at Berkeley.
Schottelndreyer, Burkhard. 1975. Clause patterns in Sherpa. In Hale ed. pp. 1-57.
and Heiderose. 1973. Sherpa texts. Clause, sentence and discourse patterns in selected
languages of Nepal, Part III. ed. Austin Hale pp. 53-176. Norman, Oklahoma: Summer
Institute of Linguistics.
Strahm, Esther. 1975. Clause patterns in Jirel. In Hale ed. pp. 71-146.
Thurgood, Graham. 1982. The Sino-Tibetan copula *w3y. Cahiers de Linguistique Asie Orientale
9:1.65-81.
Woodbury, Anthony C. 1981. Evidentiality in Sherpa verbal categories. MS. prepared for the
Evidentials symposium, University of California at Berkeley.
EIGHTEEN
Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech
John W. Du Bois
University of California at Los Angeles
Where got I that truth?
Out of a medium's mouth,
Out of nothing it came,
Out of the forest loam,
Out of dark night where lay
The crowns of Nineveh.
—W. B. Yeats*
What evidence, what authority, can a speaker offer for religious utterance?1
This
question may rarely or never rise to the level of conscious thought for the
individual within a traditional society. Nevertheless, the unexpressed demand for
authority remains, and is visible in its consequences. It becomes a specifically
linguistic issue once it begins to determine the linguistic shape of mythic, pro-
phetic, or ritual utterances. The problem of evidence, or more broadly authority,
confronts the utterer of the sacred as well as of the profane; yet the evidential
resources which he may draw on in the two spheres are very different. Language
reflects this fact. When a speaker turns to provide support for an ordinary
utterance, he finds that his language offers, perhaps, a range of linguistic forms
*(Reprinted with permission of Macmillan Publishing Company from "Fragments" (Collected
Works) by W. B. Yeats. Copyright 1933 by Macmillan Publishing Company, renewed 1961 by
Bertha Géorgie Yeats)
1
Earlier versions of this paper were presented at the Evidentials Symposium in Berkeley on May
17, 1981 and at the UCLA Linguistics Colloquium on November 13, 1981. I would like to thank the
participants of both meetings for their helpful comments, several of which have been incorporated
here. I thank Wallace Chafe, Talmy Givôn, Dell Hymes, Judith Irvine, Joel Kuipers, Jean-Marie
Marandin, Johanna Nichols, and Kenneth Whistler for useful comments and criticism on earlier
versions of the paper. I especially thank Eisa Vittaniemi for extensive advice on issues in comparative
religion, and for helping in many other ways.
I plan to present a more complete treatment of this topic in a full-length study tentatively titled
Words without speakers: The language of ritual in traditional society (in progress).
313
314 Evidentially in English and in General
to mark the appropriate source of knowledge: something seen, inferred, heard
told. But for a religious utterance, usually something more is needed. And
usually, within a traditional society, something more is available: a special form
of the language reserved for ritual and similar uses. I will propose below that the
characteristic form of these special varieties serves precisely to satisfy the de-
mand for authority: in a certain sense, these speech varieties serve to make the
ritual utterance appear as self-evident.
To show how this could be so, I must address three issues. First, the nature of
ritual speech. Since I aim here at a general theoretical formulation, I examine
ritual speech from as broad a point of view as possible. I survey reports of ritual
speech varieties from a genetically and areally diverse sampling of the world's
languages, and attempt to determine their characteristic features. Second, the
nature of evidence and authority in relation to the general theory of the speech
event. Here, I introduce several needed theoretical innovations. Third, the rela-
tion between ritual speech form and the social constitution of the speech event.
Here, the striking crosslinguistic convergences in ritual varieties discovered in
the first section propel to its ultimate solution the theoretical problem of the
second. Demonstrating this connection is, of course, the crux of my proposed
theory of ritual speech.
RITUAL SPEECH
Ritual speech has not yet received much attention from a theoretical point of
view, though it is fairly well attested in a number of individual linguistic eth-
nographies. Mythic speech has in recent years received considerable serious
attention (Hymes 1981; Bright 1982; McLendon 1982), but there are a number of
distinct issues which arise for ritual speech that deserve treatment in their own
right.
Ritual speech I define as speech distinctively characteristic of ritual. Ritual
itself I understand, following Victor Turner, as 'prescribed formal behavior for
occasions not given over to technological routine, having reference to beliefs in
mystical beings or powers' (1967:19), 'a transformative performance revealing
major classifications, categories, and contradictions of cultural processes'
(1977:77). (Cf. Geertz (1973b: 112) on ritual as, simply, 'consecrated behav-
ior.') The importance of speech in ritual has been stressed especially by Mal-
inowski (1935) and, more recently, by Tambiah (1968, 1979): 'The vast major-
ity of ritual and magical acts combine word and deed. . . . The rite usually
consists of a close interweaving of speech (in the form of utterances and spells)
and action (consisting of the manipulation of objects)' (Tambiah 1979:360).
Since it is necessary to obtain precise information on both speech (including
paralanguage) and ethnographic context, the range of usable sources is limited to
a fairly small set of studies—primarily those in the tradition presently embodied
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 315
in the ethnography of speaking, with early forebears in Malinowski and Sapir.
Although there are a few valuable and recent general studies of ritual speech
(Basso 1979, Chafe 1981), and several general studies of related matters (of
political oratory, Bloch 1975, and Irvine 1979, of performance—much of it in
ritual—Bauman 1977), many of the most important and interesting questions
have not yet been addressed, or even formulated. Thus, much of what follows
covers new theoretical territory.
The survey sample is limited to languages used in technologically simple
societies in which traditions of widespread literacy have played no general role.
The languages are Quiche (Bunzel 1952; Norman 1980; author's field work),
Tzeltal (Stross 1974), Tzotzil (Bricker 1973; Gossen, 1974a, 1974b), and
Yucatec (Bricker 1974; Burns 1980), all Mayan languages of Guatemala and
Mexico; Cuna (Stout 1948; Sherzer 1974, 1977, 1981, 1982; cf. Lévi-Strauss
1963a), a Chibchan language of Panama and Colombia; Waiwai (Fock 1963), a
Cariban language of Guyana and Brazil; Zufii (Bunzel 1929/30) and Keresan
(=Keres) (White 1944), two language isolates of New Mexico; Wintu (Du Bois
1935; Schlichter 1981), a Wintun language of California: Wishram (Spier and
Sapir 1930; French 1958; Hymes 1966, 1981), a Chinookan language of Wash-
ington and Oregon; Seneca (Chafe 1961, 1981; cf. Foster 1974), an Iroquoian
language of New York; Malagasy (Keenan 1974, 1975; Keenan and Ochs 1979),
Rotinese (Fox 1974), and Kiriwina (Malinowski 1922, 1935; cf. Tambiah 1968),
Austronesian languages of Madagascar, Indonesia, and Trobriand, respectively.
Javanese (Becker 1979), an Austronesian language of Java, is also consulted,
though on a separate basis, due to the considerable development of literacy in
Javanese society. The bias of the sample toward Central and North American
languages is partly due to the author's greater familiarity with these languages,
but it is, perhaps, just as much a product of the especially active interest in the
ethnography of speaking among scholars in this area. I will begin with an
extended example of ritual speech from Quiche, followed by a general survey.
The Quiche marriage ritual known as chupb'al q'aaq 'extinguishing the fire'
is characteristic of ceremonial speeches delivered by the k'amal b'eh 'guide'
(literally, 'bringer of the road'), a specialist who, having attained some rank in
the traditional religious hierarchy, undergoes several years' apprenticeship to a
senior k'amal b'eh in order to acquire his ritual knowledge (Norman 1980:389).
The following discussion is based primarily on the observations of Will Norman;
my own research on Quiche ritual with a k'amal b'eh from Olintepeque (carried
out in 1975 in conjunction with anthropological field work directed by Janet
Shuster Trump) agrees generally with Norman's findings in Nahualâ and Santa
Catarina Ixtahuacan.
Aree k'u ri kamiik, mal k'u tyoox,
and-so the today so-thanks
And so today, so thanks,
316 Evidentially in English and in General
karaj ne7 (x)saqirik,
perhaps it-got-light
perhaps it got light,
karaj ne7 xpakataj jun saantalaj uwach uleew,
it-dawned a holy world
perhaps a holy world dawned,
xneek'aama chu7loq,
I-was-brought now-here
I was brought now here,
xneeyaaka chu7loq,
I-was-raised now-here
I was raised now here,
chwa ri nutz'aaq,
before the my wall
before my wall,
chwa ri nuk'axtuun,
before the my-fortress
before my fortress,
chwii nub'iineem,
above my-walking
above my walking,
chwii nuchakaneem.
above my-crawling
above my crawling.
(Norman 1980:388; free translation added)
The example differs from colloquial Quiche in several ways. Most strikingly, it
is highly parallelistic, with grammatically parallel couplets that are based on a
tradition of paired, semantically related lexical items (underlined in the citation
above). For example: k'am, yak 'bring, raise'; b'iineem, chakaneem 'walking,
crawling'. The ordering of many pairs is irreversible (*chakaneem b'iineem).
Some words do not appear outside the context of their lexical pair; thus k'axtuun
'fortress' only occurs paired with tz'aaq 'wall'. The concatenation of meanings
in many of the pairs gives rise to a métonymie, metaphoric, or otherwise idi-
omatic meaning: the pair tz'aaq, k'axtuun, literally 'wall, fortress', means
'home'; k'am, yak, literally 'bring, raise', means 'hire a k'amal b'eh'. Knowl-
edge of the metaphorical significance of most of the pairs is restricted to the
specialists. Formation of the couplets themselves is governed by a simple but
strict surface syntactic rule. Roughly, the second line is formed by making a
copy of the first, starting from any constituent boundary and continuing right-
ward up to the position of the first paired lexical item, where the second is
substituted (for a more precise formulation see Norman 1980:395-97). Quiche
ritual speech includes some archaic elements and grammatical processes which,
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 317
though attested in sixteenth and seventeenth century documents, have been lost
in modern colloquial Quiche; for example, the use of mi as a recent past tense
marker. The ritual text is uttered with a high degree of fluency, without hesita­
tions, in a stylized intonation contour. And, of course, in actual use the speech is
embedded in a specific ritual context, with prescribed postures, proxemics,
behaviors, attitudes, and trappings.
How much of this is paralleled in other languages? Some of the more signifi­
cant crosslinguistic convergences in ritual speech characteristics are as follows:
Ritual register. A single meaning is often expressed with two different
lexical items, one in colloquial speech, the other reserved for ritual. In Keresan,
colloquial coroyâ 'mountain bluebird' is replaced in ritual contexts by sto-c;
tcâ'apt 'eat' is replaced by posikomt; om\L'na 'you may go now' by po-
tiyak'o'ô (White 1944:163-64). In Cuna colloquial iti 'water' is replaced in
magical-curing chants by wiasali, and in puberty-rite chants by nukki kia (Sher-
zer 1981:12). In Wintu, the exclamation ha-haq 'look upon me' is 'used only by
shamans and not related to the word for 'to see, look' ' (Schlichter 1981:107). In
Kiriwina, mulubida 'bush hen' is gelu in ritual speech (Malinowski 1935:219;
cf. 1922:432). This ritual register is often built up from elements which are
archaic, borrowed, tabooed, or formulaic (see following items).
Archaistic elements. Ritual register often appears to contain archaic ele­
ments. In Wintu, 'obsolescent expressions survive longer in shamanistic speech'
(Schlichter 1981:109). In Quiche, an old recent past marker, as well as an
obsolescent type of adverbial incorporation, is retained in ritual speech (Norman
1980:389). White (1944) rightly cautions against too quick an assumption of
archaism for obscure ritual forms; what is certainly significant, however, is the
indigenous belief m archaism. Thus, Hrdlička was told that 'some of the old men
of Laguna know and still use in certain ceremonies an archaic language [called
Hamasija, said to mean, roughly, 'old, ancient'] which the younger generation
can neither speak nor fully understand' (cited in White 1944:166). Such beliefs
in the archaism of the ritual speech variety are common, whether or not actual
archaism can be demonstrated to the historical linguist's satisfaction.
Borrowed elements. The source of ritual register elements is often a neigh­
boring language (or dialect), even where no superstrate relation exists and the
borrowing language does not lack the borrowed term. In Rotinese, the second
member of a lexical pair is often borrowed from a neighboring dialect (Fox
1974:80ff), and Tzotzil pairs are often made up of a native and a Spanish term
(Bricker 1974:372). In Hopi, in a song from the Powamu ceremony (claimed by
one investigator to be 'composed entirely of archaic words') some otherwise
obscure terms are probably loans from Keresan, according to White (1944:162).
Euphemism and metaphor. Ritual speech is often highly circumlocutory.
In Keresan, colloquial h'a-wc 'snow' is replaced by ritual naback'" po-tca, lit.
'let a white blanket cover(?)' (White 1944:164). In Cuna pom 'evil spirit' is
replaced by urwetule 'angry person'; nae 'walk, go' is replaced by aypanne, lit.
318 Evidentiality in English and in General
'swing back and forth like a hammock' (Sherzer 1981:12-13). The Rotinese
formula expressing 'male child' in ritual speech is the pair popi koa II lanu manu
'a rooster's tailfeathers' // 'a cock's plume' (Fox 1974:75).
Meaning opaqueness. The effect of the above four points is often obscurity
in meaning, even for those members of the culture for whom the ritual is being
carried out, such as the patient in a curing ritual—and sometimes even for the
ritual practitioner. In Rotinese, 'This ritual code, in its entirety, is probably
beyond the comprehension of any of its individual participants' (Fox 1974:83).
For Kiriwina, Malinowski speaks of the 'coefficient of weirdness in the language
of magic' (1935:218ff ). Wintu shamans may call up spirits which speak through
them in foreign languages unintelligible to the nonspecialists present (Schlichter
1981:102-03, 105-06; cf. section on mediated speech). The Cuna curer uses a
language which is usually not understood by the patient or other persons present,
although it is understood by the supernatural suar mimmi 'stick babies' to whom
it is addressed (Sherzer 1974:272). The mumbled speech of Yucatec shamans is
called xwala' t'aan 'unintelligible speech' (Burns 1980:309-310).
Semantic-grammatical parallelism. The basic structural principle govern-
ing many ritual languages is semantic and, frequently, grammatical parallelism
in which two or more successive lines express synonymous or otherwise closely
related meanings. Often such couplets are built on a tradition of lexical pairs.
Parallelism is a basic principle of all the Mayan languages I know, and of Cuna,
Kiriwina, Rotinese and many other ritual languages (cf. Jakobson 1966, Fox
1974:66, Bauman 1977; see also the Malagasy, Wishram, and Quiche citations
below.)
Marked voice quality. The voice quality which the ritual specialist employs
is sometimes marked. In Cuna chanting (namakke) the specialist employs a tense
voice quality {wai sae) accomplished through pharyngeal tightening (Sherzer
1974:273). In Kiriwina, certain types of ritual speech appear to involve a special
voice quality (Malinowski 1922:436-437, 1935:224).
Fluidity. Ritual speech is typically more fluent than colloquial speech. In
Seneca, ritual speech is smoother, without false starts, afterthoughts, or other
disfluencies (Chafe 1981:134-136). Wintu shamanistic register is characterized
by the absence of the 'hesitation-type connective ^una-' (Schlichter 1981:123).
If a Zuni speaker is called on to display impromptu verbal skill in a ritual context,
he must handle the ritual vocabulary and rhythms correctly 'and, above all,
speak without any hesitation or fumbling and for as long as possible' (Bunzel
1929/30:615).
Intonational restriction. Ritual speech often has a characteristic stylized
intonation contour, eliminating alternatives available in colloquial speech. A
Seneca ritual variety is characterized by a set of short prosodie phrases with final
rising contour, closed by a phrase with falling contour; 'Almost no intonational
variety is possible' (Chafe 1981:140). Cuna ritual speech is described as
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 319
'chanted' (Sherzer 1974:273), while Kiriwina is 'singsong' (Malinowski
1935:219).
Gestalt knowledge. The ritual text often appears to be known (and learned)
as an indivisible whole. Specialists are often unable to present their chants in
line-by-line fragments for the investigator, and they teach the texts (whether to
outside scholar or indigenous novice) through many repetitions of the whole. In
Kiriwina, 'Magicians as a rule cannot repeat their spells slowly or piecemeal or
in an ordinary voice' (Malinowski 1935:224). Mojave memorized texts are tradi-
tionally delivered in a rapid staccato, and informants have great difficulty in
slowing the sequence down, even though it is composed of short sentences
(Devereux 1964:268).
Personal volition disclaimer. The ritual speaker often explicitly disclaims
any credit for or influence on what is said. A traditional source is often credited
instead. In recreating (in English) the Sunday morning speech of a Chinook
'crier', a Chinook speaker said, 'Me—I'm not telling you this myself. I'm only
giving you the revelations which I've learned from somebody else' (Hymes
1981:89). The Iroquois longhouse speaker stresses his inadequacy for the role as
he allows himself to be coaxed into it (Foster 1974:364). A Malagasy ritual
speechmaker said:
Manao azafady aho, I excuse myself,
fa tsy tompon'ity . . . for (I) am not a master of this . . .
tsy tompon-dalana fa mpanohy, not an originator of paths but a continuer,
tsy tompon-diafa mpanaraka . . . not an originator ofjourneys but a follower . . .
tsy tompon-teny fa mpindrana. not an originator of words but a BORROWER.
(Keenan and Ochs 1979:144; emphasis in original, line breaks added)
Shifter avoidance. In much of ritual speech, shifters are avoided, especially
those which index the speaker as an individual, particularly T (cf. (11) above).
In Seneca the words for T and 'you', though frequent in conversation, are
present in ritual only in opening and closing remarks (Chafe 1981:142); for the
Iroquois it is a harsh criticism of a speaker in the Thanksgiving ritual to say 'He's
got too much " I " in there' (Foster 1974:364). The Cuna ritual chant used in
grabbing a dangerous snake, 'like all Kuna magical chants, is a third person
narrative' (Sherzer 1982:318). The specialist constantly refers to himself (or to
his spirit) using a third person nominal or pronominal ('the specialist', 'he'),
while he usually refers to the snake by his spirit name (Sherzer 1982:312).
(Shifter avoidance does not apply to all genres of ritual speech, however; in some
genres, T is quite prevalent.)
Ancestral model. The ritual speech variety is often believed to be the way
the ancestors spoke. Very old people, it is believed, may approach this variety;
for the Rotinese, ritual speech is 'an ancestral language which they continue'.
Some former elders approaching great age are said to have 'ceased to speak
320 Evidentially in English and in General
ordinary language and uttered only ritual statements' (Fox 1974:83; cf. 455, fn.
4). Tzeltal ritual speech is labeled poko k'op 'ancient speech' (the term also
subsumes traditional music), and is held to be 'the way and the words that people
spoke in ancient times (elegant, stylized, serious, nonmalicious speech . . .)'
(Stress 1974:221). Respected elders stereotypically speak a similar variety
(1974:224).
Mediated speech. Despite the widespread occurrence of mediation in ritual
speech, the unity of this phenomenon has scarcely been recognized; hence, I
devote a somewhat fuller discussion to the matter (but see Hymes 1972:60-61).
What I mean by mediated speech is the passing of the message through an
additional link (or links), so that the simple relation between speaker and hearer
is made complex. In its most developed form, the entire speech event may be
duplicated, with each role doubly represented. The following shows types of
mediated speech used by different groups.
For Wishram, Spier and Sapir (1930; cf. the valuable distillation in Hymes
1966) report on the ceremony for bestowal of a name. In the midst of relatives
and friends gathered for this very important occasion, the one who was to be
named was flanked by the two individuals who were to carry out the ceremony.
The first of these uttered the first sentence of the ritual in a low voice; then the
second repeated the same words in a loud voice, and the people answered 'a.xi:'.
This sequence was repeated with the next portion of the ritual text, and so on, to
the end. At this point the individual was considered to be, in some sense, a
reincarnation of his long-dead namesake, which demonstrates the actual ritual
efficacy of the procedure. In this ritual, a duplication of speech roles is quite
overt.
Wintu shamans employ an assistant to 'interpret' their utterances for the
audience (for example, the person being cured). The shaman enters a sort of
trance during his seance, and speaks in a ritual variety characterized by obsoles-
cent words and somewhat opaque metaphor and circumlocution; he may even
speak in a foreign language. The interpreter repeats the shaman's message more
simply, elaborating any prophecies made. Thus between the shaman's utterance
and the patient's comprehension lies an official process of mediation. In fact, the
shaman is himself but a further mediator, as shown in the statement of one highly
regarded Wintu interpreter: 'Doctors don't know what they say or sing. The
spirits tell them their words' (Du Bois 1935:107). The Wishram shaman also had N
a spokesman 'who repeated aloud what the spirit communicated to the shaman'
(Spier and Sapir 1930:213).
The Cuna 'congress chant', encompassing religious, historical, and political
content, is chanted by a 'chanting chief to a 'responding chief, who after each
verse responds with the stereotyped feedback teki 'it is so', before the assembled
villagers. The chant is in sakla kaya 'chiefs language', a ritual variety dis-
tinguished from the colloquial tule kaya 'people's language' by distinct para-
linguistic features, lexical items, opaque metaphors, and a high degree of seman-
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 321
tic-grammatical parallelism. After about two hours of this somewhat opaquely
metaphorical chanting, an arkar (specialist interpreter) stands up to interpret it to
the audience (Sherzer 1974). Notice that the role of the changing chief's ad-
dressee is not filled directly by the audience but by the designated responder,
another ritual specialist. The audience is further removed from this chanter-
responder interaction, as it only receives the message via the interpreter, and then
in a different code as well. Thus, me pervasive duplication of speech roles
encompasses speaker, addressee, and code. I analyze it as follows:
chanter : interpreter :: responder : audience :: chief's language : people's language
The message, held to be in some sense constant throughout, binds together the
two halves of what, in effect, has become a duplex speech event.2
The phe-
nomenon of designated responder is also reported in ritual and political functions
for Waiwai and other South American languages (Fock 1963), and in myth-
telling functions for Yucatec (Burns 1980). The stereotyped feedback charac-
teristic here may be found even where no official responder is designated. In
Seneca, some members of the audience interject at the end of each paragraph-like
unit the exclamation nyoh (like amen), beyond which 'It would be unthinkable
for a member of the audience to interject a comment' (Chafe 1981:141). (Note
also the Wishram response a.xi:, above.) The Seneca speaker sometimes closes
his eyes as he delivers his ritual monologue (1981:141), underscoring the sup-
ression of ordinary speaker-addressee interaction.
In Javanese shadow theater the 'essential audience' ('without whom the play
is pointless') are 'spirits, demons and creatures, gods, and ancestors.' The non-
essential audience are the people, 'who may or may not be present and who in
some sense overhear much of the drama.' Though much of the nonessential
audience cannot understand portions of the performance in Old Javanese and
Sanskrit, they know that the appropriate members of the essential audience do
understand. In all this, the performer is 'above all a man who can be "entered",
a "medium"' (Becker 1979:230-232).
In the crosslinguistic convergences above I have presented some of the most
salient features which distinguish ritual speech from ordinary speech (cf. also
Bloch 1975:13; Bauman 1977:16). These cannot yet be called universals. Only
as linguistic ethnographies systematically address each point will it become
possible to decide that issue. Taking a somewhat more abstract and fundamental
perspective on these features, we can summarize the basic principles of ritual
speech under four headings:
2
There is, to be sure, a directionality in this structure; the two manifestations of the duplex
speech event are not equal. The utterance of the chief is prior both temporally and conceptually to the
derivative utterance of the arkar. Such manifest inequality may contribute to preserving the perceived
authority of the prime speaker: a failure in oracular prediction is typically laid at the door of its
interpreter, not the misread oracle.
322 Evidentiality in English and in General
1. COMPLEMENTARITY. Some formal features of ritual speech are in social-
contextual complementary distribution with those of ordinary speech.
2. CONSTRAINT. A restriction of colloquial speech alternatives narrows the
range of expressive variation possible in ritual speech.
3. PARALLELISM. Segments of the message are made to coincide with syntag-
matically contiguous segments at the levels of sound, grammar, and
meaning.
4. MEDIATION. The immediacy of ordinary speech interaction is modified
through mediation and speech role doubling or, simply, by subordination to
a generalized nonpersonal role.
EVIDENCE AND AUTHORITY
The problem of evidence is clarified if we first draw a distinction between
providing evidence for a statement and providing authority for it. I propose as an
initial principle that NO UTTERANCE IS ACCEPTED WITHOUT AUTHORITY. In a
large subset of cases, the authority provided will be that of visual evidence,
inferential evidence, and so on. But providing evidence is simply a special case
of providing authority. This formulation forces us to take seriously two ques-
tions. First, what is the domain of applicability of evidentiality? Second, what
alternative sources of authority are there besides evidence?
It will be helpful to begin by considering implications of the term 'self-
evident' . A statement is sometimes called self-evident if it is considered a basic
or foundational tenet of a particular culture—one that is ordinarily presupposed
and, indeed, would ordinarily remain unremarked. In such uses as 'We hold
these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal . . .'the utterers
imply that they need not spell out the evidence because any rational person will
reach the same conclusion through his own direct examination of the evidence,
which is accessible. Again, the term 'self-evident' may be used when a linguist
presents several sentences from a language on a handout and says, 'Given
examples one through six, the fact that this language is ergative is self-evi-
dent'—or even just, 'Given these examples, the conclusion is self-evident.' In
all these cases, the speaker effectively distances himself from the proposition he
wishes to convey, and simply puts the hearer—or claims to put the hearer—
DIRECTLY IN TOUCH WITH THE EVIDENCE, SO that the hearer can frame the^
proposition himself. Indeed, it is the hearer who must actively construct the
implicit meaning if he is told nothing more than that 'the conclusion' is self-
evident. The 'speaker' may in a sense not be a speaker at all, since he may never
actually perform the illocutionary act of asserting the proposition in question.
The persuasive potency of such an approach is that the hearer is not asked to take
anything on faith; he draws his own conclusions.
I propose a somewhat different, technical definition of 'self-evident': An
utterance is self-evident if the evidence (or authority) for it is found in the
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 323
utterance itself. The utterance does not receive its authority through appeal to
external evidence such as seeing or hearing an event, but from characteristics
internal to the utterance itself. I include 'authority' in the definition because it is
more typically authority, and not evidence strictly conceived, which resides in
the utterance. Self-evidence, in this sense, can be established as such only for
particular cultures. Members in the grip of a particular culture will accept,
perhaps unconsciously, that certain utterances carry their authority within
themselves.
But what is the function that evidence ultimately serves? Evidence is used to
persuade, and persuasion is a perlocutionary act, involving as it does a change in
the state of mind of the hearer. So we are led beyond the utterance itself, and
beyond the speaker as well, to consider the role of the hearer. The critical listener
sifts through what is said, deciding what he will accept as reliable and what he
will not. In this process there are four basic questions, at least, that the hearer
may ask in order to gauge the reliability of the utterance. The burden of these
questions falls as much on the speaker as on the utterance:
1. How does the speaker know?
2. What are his interests, and how might interests distort assertions?
3. Is he sincere, or is he lying?
4. Is he fallible?
Although there are other matters into which a critical listener might probe, these
four—knowledge, interests, sincerity, and fallibility—stand at the core of the
problem of reliability. Given that a speaker knows that his utterance will be
evaluated in accordance with these questions, he may choose to defer, through
quotation, to a second speaker who will withstand the scrutiny better. Thus, the
issue of who is being quoted receives its importance, as Aristotle recognized
when he distinguished three categories of quoted speakers—in order of increas-
ing value, (a) 'recent' witnesses (i.e. contemporaries) who had an interest in the
business at hand, (b) recent disinterested witnesses, and (c) 'ancient' witnesses
(e.g. deceased poets and lawmakers) (Rhetoric, Bk. 1, Ch. 15). In addition, the
linguistic characteristics of the speaker's own speech contribute to persuasion by
defining his ethos as trustworthy: 'This trust . . . should be created by the
speech itself (Rhetoric, Bk. 1, Ch. 2).
I propose a distinction among participants in the speech event: The PRIME
SPEAKER is the individual who is originally responsible for framing the proposi-
tion, the original performer of the illocutionary act. The PROXIMATE SPEAKER is
the individual who actually utters the sentence, the performer of the utterance
act.3
When a speaker is speaking in his own right he is both prime speaker and
3
This distinction is related but far from equivalent to the distinction made by French scholars
(Benveniste, Ducrot, etc.) between the sujet parlant and the sujet de renonciation. On a rather
different footing, see Goffman (1974, 1981).
324 Evidentialify in English and in General
proximate speaker; when he is repeating the words of another he is the proximate
speaker only, and the quoted individual is the prime speaker. (In the first case I
will speak of an 'ego prime speaker', in the second of an 'alter prime speaker'.)
In addition, I distinguish between arbitrary and indexic (cf. Peirce 1885) signs
of speaker reliability. If a speaker marks an utterance with a morpheme indicat-
ing certain truth, this is an arbitrary sign of reliability; but if at the same time his
voice reveals certain characteristic rhythmic irregularities, he is likely to be
perceived as lying, on the basis of what is taken as an index of unreliability.
There is a crucial difference between arbitrary and indexic signs of reliability in
the extent to which they are subject to speaker control.4
As Bateson observes,
'Insofar as a message is conscious and voluntary, it could be deceitful. . . . But
discourse about relationship is commonly accompanied by a mass of semivolun-
tary kinesic and autonomic signals which provide a more trustworthy comment
on the verbal message' (1972:137). Combining notions from Aristotle and
Peirce, I would suggest that the most powerful determinants of ethos are indexic,
precisely because they are difficult to manipulate at will.
Anthropologists, sociologists, and linguists have presented some preliminary
insights into the problem of authority or validation for religious utterances,
especially myth. Regarding myth, Lévi-Strauss states, 'Although experience
contradicts theory, social life validates cosmology by its similarity of structure.
Hence cosmology is true' (1963b:212). Hymes speaks of a 'circle of validation':
Why should people say certain things when the first salmon and swallows come?
Because in the myth Coyote had said that they should. Why should one believe
Coyote said such things? Believe the myth? Because what he, what the myth, said
the swallows would do (come with thefirstsalmon) and the people would do when
they came, observably is the case. (1981:305-306; cf. 1966:144, 155)
(Hymes also cites validation accrued by the traditional reproduction of received
words.) Although such circles of validation are of the highest importance, they
operate at the level of semantic content rather than linguistic form: propositions
true of the world match propositions true in the myth. This process may not be
sufficient where the phenomena of experience are variable or indeterminate. A
proposition about the health of a particular individual undergoing a curing ritual
may match the world one day and not the next. Thus, in the sphere of indetermi-
nate phenomena authority leans to linguistic form (e.g. in a ritual curing text)
because it is within the domain of symbolic form itself that it may still be
possible to achieve a validating circle. Geertz has observed that 'the imbuing of a
certain specific complex of symbols . . . with a persuasive authority . . . is the
essence of religious action' (1973b:l 12). The question remains of how this is
achieved.
4
Though a recent article by Goffman (1978) maintains that individuals manipulate paralinguistic
and quasi-linguistic signals to a greater extent than is generally admitted.
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 325
In a typology of mood and evidential systems in language, Nichols (1978)
defined a class of mood categories in which the speaker takes no active role in
framing the situation reported, so that the basis of authority becomes a problem.
The category includes nomic, hearsay, mythic, and other moods—to which we
might add ritual speech. In the nomic category, that of general truths like 'Glass
breaks', the authority is directly available in the experience of each member of
the culture. For hearsay/quotation, the appeal for authority is referred to an alter
prime speaker. For myth, the speaker may rely at least in part on the semartic
circle of validation and the traditional repetition of words heard from an earlier
generation. Thus, in Kashaya Porno myths are told using the 'quotative/hearsiy'
evidential suffix -do without, however, casting any doubt on the veracity of the
myth (Oswalt, this volume).5
Likewise, Eastern Porno myths are told in the
'hearsay' evidential mode (McLendon 1982:288).
While for ritual it seems that no ordinary evidence is appropriate, authority
must still be found. The possibility of 'self-evidence' was raised earlier, and
indeed a precedent satisfying the technical definition as formulated seems to exist
in an epistemological category long ago described by Kant. He characterized
'analytic' statements as 'adding nothing through the predicate to the concept of
the subject, but merely breaking it up into those constituent concepts that have all
along been thought in it, although confusedly' (Kant 1961:48). I would point out
that the speaker initially approaches the lexical item which founds the analytic
predication (e.g. bachelor in all bachelors are unmarried) as an object or ar-
tifact, and not as part of the process of a speech act. Just as one might examine a
geological fault as an artifact in nature or a carved mask as an artifact in culture
for the information they might yield, one approaches the word as an artifact in
language. Its manifest semantic characteristics are then made the basis of a
predication, which is automatically taken as valid without regard to external
evidence.6
In his analysis of the 'continuum of epistemic space' Given (1982)
has made the important observation that the linguistic use of evidence is re-
stricted primarily to the domain of medium certainty, where it is relevant. In the
5
Note that in Kashaya, propositions based on one's dreams, visions, or revelations fall into the
category of propositions for which the speaker does take responsibility: they are marked with the
'personal experience' evidential suffix -yow, and are taken to be as true as if one had personally
experienced them (Oswalt, this volume). Similarly in Wintu, the suffix -nflEr encompasses evidence
gained not only through the nonvisual senses of hearing, feeling, taste, smell, and touch, but through
'any kind of intellectual experience or "sixth sense".' It is used in talking about the supernatural and
in prophecy (Schlichter, this volume). Though on some level the speaker in such cases is required to
do no more than indicate whether his source of knowledge is 'hearsay' or 'personal experience', for
ritual speech, at least, I think it is clear that the demand for authority ultimately probes deeper, to the
level of indexic rather than arbitrary signs (see below).
6
Roman Jakobson, in a passing remark on a Russian oral poem, said '. . . the contrariness of
'bald' and 'curly' appears SELF-EVIDENT' (1966:413; emphasis mine). Here the 'self-evident' fact of
contrariness (to the extent that it is valid) appears to reside in the words themselves as artifacts in the
lexicon (i.e., in langue).
326 Evidentially in English and in General
domain of highest certainty (which for him includes analytic, as well as a priori
synthetic, given-by-revelation, presupposed,7
and deictically obvious state-
ments) the use of evidentiality is not required. Such statements already have the
highest certainty because of the shared contract between speaker and hearer. Nor
is evidence found in the domain of lowest certainty, irrealis, where it is impossi-
ble. Givon's insight that both analytic statements and religious statements of a
certain type achieve the highest certainty without evidence recalls Douglas's
important treatment of the implications of analytic truth for symbolic an-
thropology ('Self-evidence', 1975).8
We are close here to the problem framed by
Geertz as 'the essence of religious action.' I suggest that it is the business of
ritual language, as of ritual symbolism, to merge two apparent extremes: to
equate the ritual truth with the analytic truth. Such an equation may, of course,
depend on a metaphorical sleight of hand, effective just within the framework of
a particular culture. The question remains: What in ritual speech provides author-
ity without recourse to evidence?
SPEECH FORM AND THE SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION
OF AUTHORITY
While no one would deny that the ritual speaker controls, in some sense at least,
the level of the utterance act, it seems to be a function of the particular structure
of ritual speech to prevent the ritual speaker from exercising sovereign control at
the level of illocutionary formulation. Each of four formal principles contributes
to this:
The COMPLEMENTARITY of ritual speech forms, which are distributed in dif-
ferent social contexts from those of colloquial speech, marks the ritual occasion
as separate from ordinary experience as encoded in the colloquial variety. The
meanings and associations which adhere to a lexical item from the discourses
into which it is embedded are kept in two distinct spheres, avoiding contamina-
tion between the sacred and the profane.
PARALLELISM has two major structural functions, a negative and a positive.
Negatively, it constrains individual variability in syntactic-semantic structure,
tending to obstruct personal manipulation of a valued traditional message.
Positively, it projects the image of inevitability: a form, first foreshadowed, now
indeed occurs. The consequent impression of inalterable completion fails tos
7
The position on the nonapplicability of evidentiality to presuppositions has been properly
qualified by Mithun (this volume), who notes the occasional use of such phrases as so-called before
an otherwise presupposed nominal categorization. But this modifier simply acts to reverse the
assumption that an unqualified nominal reference will presuppose its appropriateness as a predication
of the referent. While the nominal presupposition can be blocked in this way, it remains true that
evidence is not in general applicable to presuppositions.
8
Douglas's work, incidentally, contributed to the title of the present paper.
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 327
distinguish inevitability in substance from coincidence in form. Parallelism
makes of the message a structured entity, placing it in a class with other sym-
metrical objects and reiterative or cyclic phenomena. In a sense, the circle of
validation has become internalized within the message form. Beyond this, paral-
lelism has an elusive semantic effect, compared by Boodberg to 'binocular
vision' (1954-5, cited in Jakobson 1966:402; cf. Jakobson 1966:423).
MEDIATION and the associated doubling of speech event roles act to constrain
the ritual speaker's independence and his direct interactive link with the listener.
The doubling of roles puts an additional mediated link between the hearer and the
ultimate message source, and the expression of individual volition may be pre-
cluded (cf. Plato 1953:534). Mediation also interacts with the complementarity
principle, leaving its imprint in linguistic form by giving rise to two divergent
and complementary varieties, one obscure and symbolically distant, the other
clear and accessible.9
CONSTRAINTS oh ritual speech (beyond those already implicit in the three
previous principles) act to subordinate the linguistic indexing of the individual
personality to the generalized requirements of the role. In colloquial speech,
those traits which are not fully specified by the (categorical) rules of langue are
available to distinctively index individual personalities. Potential personality
indexes, as defined by Sapir (1927) and updated by Friedrich and Redfield
(1978), are mostly phonetic—voice, intonation, pitch, rhythm, relative con-
tinuity, speed, pronunciation—but variable features in lexicon, grammar, and
semantics—word usage, morphology, syntax, rhetorical tropes—may be per-
sonally indexic, as may even patterns of discourse interaction (Gumperz and
Tannen 1979). Sapir considered the voice 'the lowest or most fundamental
speech level' in that it constituted 'a level that starts with the psychophysical
organism given at birth' (1927:535). Yet this, and most or all of the other
features, may also, with some skill and effort, be modified in order to disguise or
even suppress personality. An analysis of this process will give us an important
key to ritual speech.
In 'sovereign' speech (ordinary direct speech) the proximate speaker and
prime speaker are equivalent; the proximate speaker exerts full control over the
utterance. But a shift to an alter prime speaker, whether through mimicry or
simple quotation, involves a transfer of control over at least some features of the
utterance. This control is not monolithic, but is transferrable by gradations.
9
Parallelism in the message also may be connected with mediation and interpretation. An
anonymous nineteenth century writer on parallelism uses the term 'interpretation' (in addition to
'paraphrase' and 'repetition') to describe the function of the second line of a parallel couplet (cited in
Jakobson 1966:406). Rotinese couplets often have an alien dialect term effectively 'interpreted' by an
indigenous term, and Quiche couplets sometimes pair a term not in general use (i.e., restricted to
lexical couplets) with a familiar term. In this way parallel couplets allow the presentation of obscure
language along with its clarification, a paradox of interpretability and uninterpretability remarked by
Malinowski (1935:213ff).
328 Evidentiality in English and in General
S P E E C H C A T E G O R Y
(decreasing
proximate
speaker
control)
tu
ai
D
<
tu
<
O
>
<
X
LU
CO
ai
O
u
D
O
Z
oc ~
propositional
content
shifter selection
lexical coding
register
paralanguage
all nonlinguistic
appearances and
behaviors
ego
KEY: feature controlled by proximate speaker
feature controlled by alter prime speaker (7^ proximate speaker)
Figure 1. Hierarchy of Transfer of Control
Figure 1 illustrates the possible gradations and the associated speech categories.
Down the left side are ranged the linguistic and behavioral features which are
subject to control by either proximate speaker or alter prime speaker, in order of
increasing indexicality: propositional content, shifter selection (I/you), lexical
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 329
coding {appletfruit), register {chaliceIcup), paralanguage (voice, rhythm),
and—leaving the domain of strictly linguistic features—nonlinguistic ap-
pearances and behaviors, and finally ego itself. Along the top of Figure 1, in the
initial category of sovereign speech, the proximate speaker controls all of these
features. In the second speech category, indirect speech, control of propositional
content alone is turned over to an alter prime speaker. As control of each
successive feature is turned over to a second prime speaker, we pass through the
rest of the hierarchy of speech categories: quotation, allusive quotation, mimi-
cry, impersonation, and finally, as even ego is released from proximate speaker
control, trance.10
Once control of and responsibility for an utterance are shifted to another
speaker, the character of this new speaker becomes an issue that bears on authori-
ty. I propose eight categories of prime speaker, ranged along a continuum of
degree of 'personal presence' in the situation at hand (Figure 2). The categories
range from the first person (the proximate speaker himself, (a)) through the
second person (b) to five categories of third person (c)-(g).11
Within this set
there is a rapid decrease in personal presence: with the myth characters and lesser
deities (f) we have already left historical time,12
and with the nebulous ancestor
group we approach a very low level of distinctive personality. The vacant square
in the final position (h) represents the possibility, which may prove to be more
than theoretical, of an ultimate vanishing point of personal presence.
According to Becker, 'One can roughly specify for any language activity the
degree to which the speaker/writer is speaking the past or the present'
(1979:213). This implies a continuum comparable in some respects to the present
one of personal presence. Distance in the past is associated both with fading of
distinctive personality and with increase in authority. Thus, Aristotle dis-
tinguishes between recent and ancient witnesses. In Turkish, Slobin and Aksu
(this volume) describe a psychological phenomenon whereby recent events, as
they recede further into the past (toward 'history'), are likely to shift from the
10
Compare Bauman's partial classification of 'frames' (somewhat different in orientation from
the present analysis) into literal communication, performance, insinuation, joking, imitation, transla-
tion, and quotation (1977:10).
The difference between mimicry and quotation may be grammatically marked in some languages.
Given notes that in KinyaRwanda, 'direct-quote' complements of 'say' may be marked with either
-ti, representing 'a more NEUTRAL report', i.e., quotation, or-tya, involving 'mimickry of VOICE and
GESTURE' (Given 1982:27; emphasis in original). In English, while the complements of either say or
go may be used to report speech, go tends to be used when mimicry is involved, whether of human
speech, animal cry, or even ambient noise.
11
Categories (c)-(e) are, of course, taken over from Aristotle. The existence and ordering of
most of the categories, especially (f)-(g), may reflect culture-specific variation. I leave open the
locus of a supreme deity.
A very interesting and valuable discussion of 'voice' (in roughly my sense) in music is found in
Cone (1974).
12
See Eliade (1959:68ff) on sacred time in myth and ritual.
330 Evidentially in English and in General
a b c d e f g h
Proximate Addressee Recent Recent Ancient Myth Anonymous J J
speaker interested dis- witness characters ancestor i
(= prime witness interested & lesser group j ]
speaker) witness deities
(decreasing
personal ,
presence)
Figure 2. Categories of Prime Speaker: Hierarchy of Personal Presence
suffix of (loosely) indirect experience (-mig) to the suffix of direct experience
(-<#)• The origin of ritual speech often recedes beyond even historical time. In the
Trobriand view of ritual speech (as deduced by Malinowski), 'A spell is believed
to be a primeval text which somehow came into being side by side with animals
and plants, with winds and waves, with human disease, human courage and
human frailty' (Malinowski 1935:218).
Though words to be tangible must always be physically uttered by a proxi-
mate speaker (or writer), every culture need not have such a requirement of a
final prime speaker. I propose that the first step in establishing authority for ritual
speech is to make it appear to be of apersonal origin, or at least to approach this.
The possibility of apersonal texts is perhaps not entirely alien to linguistics.
Fillmore recognizes a category of 'impersonal' texts (alongside 'monologic' and
'dialogic' texts) in which 'there is no first-person mention of the creator of the
text and no second-person mention of the addressee of the text,' as in the
example, 'Printed in Great Britain by Richard Clay Ltd.' (1974:V-9). Other
investigators have commented on depersonalization through formulaic speech
(Hymes 1972:49, Labov 1972:353), 'anonymization' (not specifically linguistic)
in ritual (Geertz 1973a), and invoking of 'positional identities' in political orato-
ry (Irvine 1979:778ff). The actual obliteration of ultimate personal source for a
spoken text is envisaged in Lévi-Strauss's apt remark that the repeated myth is 'a
message that, properly speaking, is coming from nowhere' (1969:18). Becker,
speaking about Javanese shadow theater performance, defines 'trance speaking'
as 'communication in which one of the variables of the speech act (I am speaking
to you about x at time Y in place z with intent A) is denied' (1979:232-33). Here,
most frequently the variable / is paradoxically both speaking and not speaking, or
speaking involuntarily or nonintentionally. Trance is a kind of incongruence be-
tween statement and intent (I/not I am speaking to you/not you. . . . ) (1979:233)
To deny proximate speaker intentionality in this way is to bleach out a central
aspect of personal presence in the utterance.
While several of the above remarks would seem to allow a quiet place in
linguistic theory for a concept of apersonal speech, the in fact radical conse-
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 331
quences of the idea become apparent as soon as we confront established theories
of the speech act. Searle maintains that in order for an individual to take a
potentially symbolic phenomenon (a noise, a mark on paper) as a message it is
necessary that 'he should regard it as having been produced by a being with
certain intentions.' How is it possible to reconcile the paradox of apersonal
speech with this demand for intention? For Searle the perceiver of the potential
symbol
cannot just regard it as a natural phenomenon, like a stone, a waterfall, or a
tree. . . . It is a logical presupposition, for example, of current attempts to decipher
the Mayan hierogryphs that we at least hypothesize that the marks we see on the
stones were produced by beings more or less like ourselves and produced with
certain kinds of intentions. If we were certain the marks were a consequence of,
say, water erosion, then the question of deciphering them or even calling them
hieroglyphs could not arise. To construe them under the category of linguistic
communication necessarily involves construing their production as speech acts.
(1972:137)
This insistence on intention presupposes that even if no speaker (or writer) is
immediately present, if one goes far enough back one will find him. Intentional
man is the sole source of linguistic communication, while nature and accident,
lacking intention, are rejected.
But this stance is not universal. The Quiche ritual of divination extracts
meaning from 'chance' phenomena which are clearly held to be nonintentional.
The diviner who wishes, for example, to determine the name of an enemy who
has caused his client's illness, begins by taking a random handful from a large
pile of sacred red pito seeds and pronouncing a short ritual text (characteristically
parallelistic) which invokes the ancestors, among others. In part:
our first mothers
and fathers
who came before the altars,
the masters of the pointed stick,
the masters of the seeds of the pito,
the masters of divination by corn
and by blood,
come hither! (Bunzel 1952:287; line breaks added)
He then asks, 'Is it (so-and-so)?' and lays out the seeds he is holding in
groups of four until the last one has been set down, thus— :: :: :: and so on. The
answer depends on the configuration of the final seeds: 'If they come out even
[::], the answer is affirmative, if two remain over [:] it is doubtful, if one or three
remain [. :.], it is negative' (Bunzel 1952:288). Any intentional control over this
message is specifically precluded by the chance number of seeds grasped (though
Bunzel makes clear that room to maneuver remains in the process of interpreta-
tion, 1952:290f ). In place of intention, what validates the significant message is
332 Evidentially in English and in General
a parallel, symmetrical structure: most effectively, a doubly symmetrical struc-
ture (::) but in any case not a nonsymmetrical structure or nonstructure (. :.). As
Roland Barthes observes, in popular thought 'to repeat is to signify':
Repetition always commits us to imagining an unknown cause, so true is it that in
the popular consciousness, the aleatory is always distributive, never repetitive:
chance is supposed to vary events; if it repeats them, it does so in order to signify
something through them; to repeat is to signify, this belief is at the source of all
ancient manteia . . . (Barthes 1972:191)
What is structured by repetition is significant, outside language as well as in; yet
Searle's intending speaker is nowhere to be found.
Intention is thus revealed to be culture-bound as a criterion of meaning. We
are forced to recognize a typological split in cultural canons of symbolism
(including language) according to their axiomatic criteria for the imputation of
meaning. One type, embodied in most of official Western thought since the Age
of Reason, indeed takes intentionality as its primary criterion. A further criterion
is structural coherence, to the extent, at least, of following rules of grammar.
This cultural type may be called the humanist-rationalist. Here, the meaningful is
that which displays structure and is backed by intention (i.e., + intention
+structure). Whatever appears structured but is not backed by intention is mean-
ingless. In the second cultural type, however, structure takes precedence over
intention in the imputation of meaning. I call this type the manticist. Here, what
has structure has meaning, whether the structure is the product of human inten-
tion or otherwise (thus, + structure, ±intention).13
Moreover—and here lies the
immediate import of this typological contrast—what the humanist-rationalist
tradition discards as coincidence, the manticist may take as not only meaningful
but unassailable: it bypasses ordinary criticism because it bypasses the human
source of error.
CONCLUSIONS
This inquiry began with the problem of self-evidence. It is found that speaker's
ethos is central to perceived utterance reliability. Quotation is exploited as a
powerful tool for persuasion, to the extent that it shifts hearer's scrutiny of
knowledge, interests, sincerity and fallibility to those who are most able to bear
it. In addition to arbitrary linguistic marking, paralinguistic indexic marking"
contributes crucially to the perception of speaker reliability, as well as of mes-
sage source. Indexic signs carry special weight because they are not easily
subject to volitional control.
13
Of the two other contrasting logical possibilities, -intention -structure represents simply chance
phenomena, while +intention -structure is perhaps applicable, in varying degrees, to aphasie and
schizophrenic speech.
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 333
Analytic truth is accorded the highest reliability; yet no appeal to external
evidence is made. The word which founds the analytic predication is approached
initially as an artifact of language, rather than as part of the speech act process, in
order to extract for assertion the meaning which it presupposes.
The need for marking sensory evidence or quotation arises in the first place
from the limitations of the individual speaker, whose asserted knowledge is by
itself fallible. He supports it by indicating the source of his external evidence or
by quoting someone else who has evidence. But in taking this step he does not
yet escape the realm of personal fallibility, for his statement of evidence itself,
whether asserted or presupposed, remains the arbitrary utterance of an individual
still subject to ignorance, manipulation, insincerity, and fallibility. Quotation
and mimicry shift evaluation of these to an alter prime speaker, in the first case
arbitrarily, in the second quasi-indexically. But this second person remains sub-
ject to the same critical scrutiny. To escape this a source of meaning must be
found which stands outside the chain of human fallibility.
Thus ethos reaches its highest importance, and with it the form of the speech
itself. In the utterance of the ritual practitioner, the prescribed form of speech
tends to obliterate the indexing of individual personality. In place of distinctive
voice, intonation, hesitation, rhythm, sentence structure, is a voice made uni-
form and intonationally inexpressive, a pauseless automatic flow of ritual sylla-
bles within given structures, where any imposition of proximate speaker control
is checked at every hand. The ethical voice of ritual is not that of a second
mimicked individual, with all his idiosyncratic traits, but of an idealized form. It
is a voice which can index no personal origin. The groundwork is thus laid for a
belief that the ritual practitioner channels words derived from, at best, the
nebulous ancestors, or more simply, from nowhere.
Given manticist premises, meaning forms which are found in the artifactual
world of language, existing independently of personal intention, can be validated
as coherent structures—and hence meaningful—by the symmetry which they
manifestly share with their isomorphs in nature. Parallelism promotes a percep-
tion of the utterance as an artifact—what we may call a 'speech tool' rather than
a 'speech act'—and hence makes possible the manticist equation of ritual speech
with analytic truth. The basis of the authority of ritual speech is in the end quite
simple. The manticist listener, through the structure of ritual speech and of the
ritual event, is put directly in touch with a sourceless message whose authority he
can observe in its very form: it is self-evident.
What I have tried to do in this paper is to uncover a function which must
underlie the observed correlation of phenomena in the domain of social life with
phenomena in the domain of symbolic form. In order to do this it has been
necessary to deepen our conception of the constitution of the speech event,
taking into account both the positive substance of symbolic form and its efficacy
in the larger world, in order to build further toward a theory of language in social
life.
334 Evidentially in English and in General
REFERENCES
Aristotle. 1932. The rhetoric of Aristotle, trans, by Lane Cooper. New York: Appleton-Century-
Crofts.
Barthes, Roland. 1972. Structure of thefait-divers. Critical essays. Evanston: Northwestern Univer-
sity Press.
Basso, Keith. 1979. Discussant presentation on ritual language. 78th Annual Meeting, American
Anthropological Association, Cincinnati.
Bateson, Gregory. 1972. Style, grace, and information in primitive art. Steps to an ecology of mind,
128-152. New York: Ballantine.
Bauman, Richard. 1977. Verbal art as performance. Rowley, Mass.: Newbury House.
Becker, A. L. 1979. Text-building, epistemology, and aesthetics in Javanese shadow theatre. The
imagination of reality: Essays in Southeast Asian coherence systems, ed. by A. L. Becker and
Aram A. Yengoyan, 211-243. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Bloch, Maurice. 1975. Introduction. Political language and oratory in traditional society, 1-28.
London: Academic Press.
Boodberg, Peter A. 1954-55. Syntactical metaplasia in stereoscopic parallelism. (Cedules from a
Berkeley workshop in Asiatic philology, #017-541210.) Berkeley.
Bricker, Victoria R. 1973. Ritual humor in highland Chiapas. Austin: University of Texas Press.
1974. The ethnographic context of some traditional Mayan speech genres. Explorations in
the ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman and Joel Sherzer, 368-388. London:
Cambridge University Press.
Bright, William. 1982. Literature: Written and oral. Georgetown University Round Table on Lan-
guages and Linguistics 1981, ed. by Deborah Tannen, 271-283. Washington: Georgetown
University Press.
Bunzel, Ruth. 1929/30. Zufii ritual poetry. Bureau of American Ethnology, Annual Reports,
47.611-835. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office.
1952. Chichicastenango: A Guatemalan village. (Publications of the American Eth-
nological Society, 22.) Locust Valley, NY.: Augustin.
Burns, Allan F. 1980. Interactive features in Yucatec Mayan narratives. Language in Society 9.307-
319.
Chafe, Wallace L. 1961. Seneca Thanksgiving rituals. (Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin
183.) Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office.
1981. Differences between colloquial and ritual Seneca, or How oral literature is literary.
Reports from the Survey of California and Other Indian Languages, no. 1, ed. by Alice
Schlichter, Wallace L. Chafe, and Leanne Hinton, 131-145. Berkeley: Department of
Linguistics.
Cone, Edward T. 1974. The composer's voice. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Devereux, George. 1964. Mojave voice and speech mannerisms. Language in culture and society,
ed. by Dell Hymes, 267-271. New York: Harper and Row.
Douglas, Mary. 1975. Self-evidence. Implicit meanings, 276-318. London: Routledge and Kegan
Paul.
Du Bois, Cora. 1935. Wintu ethnography. (University of California Publications in American Ar-
chaeology and Ethnology, 36.) Berkeley: University of California Press.
Eliade, Mircea. 1959. The sacred and the profane. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.
Fillmore, Charles J. 1974. Pragmatics and the description of discourse. Berkeley Studies in Syntax
and Semantics, vol. 1, ed. by Charles Fillmore, George Lakoff, and Robin Lakoff. Berkeley:
Department of Linguistics and Institute of Human Learning.
Fock, Niels. 1963. Waiwai: Religion and society of an Amazonian tribe. Copenhagen: The National
Museum.
Foster, Michael K. 1974. When words become deeds: An analysis of three Iroquois longhouse
Du Bois: Self-Evidence and Ritual Speech 335
speech evepts. Explorations in the ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman and Joel
Sherzer, 354-367. London: Cambridge University Press.
Fox, James J. 1974. 'Our ancestors spoke in pairs': Rotinese views of language, dialect, and code.
Explorations in the ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman and Joel Sherzer, 65-
85. London: Cambridge University Press.
French, David. 1958. Cultural matrices of Chinookan non-casual language. UAL 24.258-263.
Friedrich, Paul and James Redfield. 1978. Speech as a personality symbol. Language 54.263-288.
Geertz, Clifford. 1973a. Person, time, and conduct in Bali. The interpretation of cultures, 360-411.
New York: Basic Books.
1973b. Religion as a cultural system. The interpretation of cultures, 87-125. New York:
Basic Books.
Given, Talmy. 1982. Evidentiality and epistemic space. Studies in Language 6:1.23-49.
Goffman, Erving. 1974. Frame analysis. New York: Harper and Row.
1978. Response cries. Language 54.787-815.
1981. Footing. Forms of talk, 124-159. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Gossen, Gary H. 1974a. Chamulas in the world of the sun: Time and space in a Maya oral tradition.
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
1974b. To speak with a heated heart: Chamula canons of style and good performance.
Explorations in the ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman and Joel Sherzer, 389-
413. London: Cambridge University Press.
Gumperz, John J. and Deborah Tannen. 1979. Individual and social differences in language use.
Individual differences in language ability and language behavior, ed. by Charles J. Fillmore,
Daniel Kempler, and William S-Y. Wang, 305-325. New York: Academic Press.
Hymes, Dell. 1966. Two types of linguistic relativity (with examples from Amerindian ethnogra-
phy). Sociolinguistics, ed. by William Bright, 114-167. The Hague: Mouton.
1972. Models of the interaction of language and social life. Directions in sociolinguistics,
ed. by John Gumperz and Dell Hymes, 35-71. New York: Holt.
1981. 'In vain I tried to tell you': Essays in Native American ethnopoetics. Philadelphia:
University of Pennsylvania Press.
Irvine, Judith T. 1979. Formality and informality in communicative events. American An-
thropologist 81.773-790.
Jakobson, Roman. 1960. Closing statement: Linguistics and poetics. Style in language, ed. by
Thomas A. Sebeok, 350-377. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
1966. Grammatical parallelism and its Russian facet. Language 42.399-429.
1971. Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. Selected writings, v. 2, 130-147.
The Hague: Mouton.
Kant, Immanuel. 1961. Critique of pure reason, trans, by Norman Kemp Smith. London: Macmillan.
Keenan, Edward Louis and Elinor Ochs. 1979. Becoming a competent speaker of Malagasy. Lan-
guages and their speakers, ed. by Timothy Shopen, 113-158. Cambridge, Mass.: Winthrop.
Keenan, Elinor. 1974. Norm-makers, norm-breakers: Uses of speech by men and women in a
Malagasy community. Explorations in the ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman
and Joel Sherzer, 125-143. London: Cambridge University Press.
1975. A sliding sense of obligatoriness: The polystructure of Malagasy oratory. Political
language and oratory in traditional society, ed. by Maurice Bloch, 93-112. London: Academ-
ic Press.
Labov, William. 1972. Rules for ritual insults. Language in the inner city: Studies in the Black
English Vernacular. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Lasch, R. 1907. Ueber Sondersprachen und ihre Entstehung. Mitteilungen, Viennese An-
thropological Society.
Lévi-Strauss, Claude. 1963a. The effectiveness of symbols. Structural anthropology, 181-201.
Garden City, N.Y.: Anchor.
3 3 6 Evidentiality in English and in General
1963b. The structural study of myth. Structural anthropology, 206-231. Garden City,
N.Y.: Anchor.
1969. The raw and the cooked. New York: Harper and Row.
Malinowski, Bronislaw. 1922 [1961]. Argonauts of the Western Pacific. New York: Dutton.
1935. Coral gardens and their magic, vol. 2: The language of magic and gardening. New
York: American Book Co.
McLendon, Sally. 1982. Meaning, rhetorical structure, and discourse organization in myth.
Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics 1981, ed. by Deborah
Tannen, 284-305. Washington: Georgetown University Press.
Nichols, Johanna. 1978. Predicate categories checklist. MS, Berkeley.
Norman, William M. 1980. Grammatical parallelism in Quiche ritual language. Proceedings of the
Sixth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 387-399. Berkeley: Berkeley
Linguistics Society.
Peirce, Charles Sanders. 1885 [1933]. Three kinds of signs. Collected papers of Charles Sanders
Peirce, vol. 3, ed. by Charles Hartshorne and Paul Weiss, 210-214. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.
Plato. 1953. Ion. The dialogues of Plato, 4th ed., trans, by Benjamin Jowett. Oxford: The Clarendon
Press.
Sapir, Edward. 1927 [1949]. Speech as a personality trait. Selected writings of Edward Sapir, ed. by
David Mandelbaum, 533-543. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Schlichter, Alice. 1981. Notes on the Wintu shamanistic jargon. Reports from the Survey of Califor-
nia and Other Indian Languages, no. 1, ed. by Alice Schlichter, Wallace L. Chafe, and
Leanne Hinton, 95-130. Berkeley: Department of Linguistics.
Searle, John R. 1972. What is a speech act? Language and social context, ed. by Pier Paolo Giglioli,
136-154. Harmondsworth, Middlesex: Penguin.
Sherzer, Joel F. 1974. Namakke, sunmakke, kormakke: Three types of Cuna speech event. Explora-
tions in the ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman and Joel Sherzer, 263-282.
London: Cambridge University Press.
1977. Cuna ikala: Literature in San Bias. Verbal art as performance, ed. by Richard
Bauman, 133-150. Rowley, Mass.: Newbury House.
1981. The poetic structures of Kuna discourse: A sociolinguistic perspective. MS, Univer-
sity of Texas, Austin.
1982. The interplay of structure and function in Kuna narrative, or: How to grab a snake in
the Darien. Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics 1981, ed. by
Deborah Tannen, 306-322.
Spier, Leslie and Edward Sapir. 1930. Wishram ethnography. University of Washington Publications
in Anthropology, vol. 3, no. 3, 151-300.
Stout, D. B. 1947. Ethno-linguistic observations on San Bias Cuna. UAL 13.9-12.
Stross, Brian. 1974. Speaking of speaking: Tenejapa Tzeltal metalinguistics. Explorations in the
ethnography of speaking, ed. by Richard Bauman and Joel Sherzer, 213-239. London:
Cambridge University Press.
Tambiah, S. J. 1968. The magical power of words. Man, N.S., 3.175-208.
1979. The form and meaning of magical acts: A point of view. Reader in comparative
religion, ed. by William A. Lessa and Evon Z. Vogt, 352-362. New York: Harper and Row.
Turner, Victor W. 1967. Symbols in Ndembu ritual. The forest of symbols, 19-47. Ithaca: Cornell
University Press.
1977. Process, system, and symbol: A new anthropological synthesis. Daedalus 106.61-
80.
White, Leslie A. 1944. A ceremonial vocabulary among the Pueblos. UAL 10.161-167.
Whorf, Benjamin L. 1956. Some verbal categories of Hopi. Language, thought, and reality, 112-
124. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
A
Adelaar, W.F.H., 138, 142, 145, 149, 149«,
150, 153, 154
Akatsuka, N., 181, 186
Aksu, A.A., 167
Aksu-Koç, A.A., 165, 167
Albino Mendoza, L., 148, 155
Alcocer, P., 154
Anderson, L., 275/I, 282, 283, 293«, 299, 311
Andrade, M.J., 9n, 17, 21, 23, 25
Andrejčin, L., 168, 170«, 186
Aristotle, 323, 334
Aronson, H.I., 169, 171, 171«, 175, 177,
180«, 185, 186
Arsen'ev, V.K., 247, 256
Avrorin, V.A., 243, 256
Ayer, A.J., 56, 57,59
Azkue, R.M. de, 7«, 25
B
Barbeau, M., 93«, / / /
Barnes, J., 311
Barthes, R., 332, 334
Baskakov, N.A., 165, 167
Basso, K., 315, 334
Bateson, G., 324, 334
Bauman, R., 315, 318, 321, 329«, 334
Becker, A.L., 315, 321, 329, 334
Benedict, P.K., 304«, 311
Berlin, B., 278, 283,3//
Bertonio, L., 113, 136
Bickerton, D., 243«, 256
Blanca, M., 155
Bloch, M., 315, 321, 334
Bloomfield, L., 7, 25
Boas, F., 3, 4, 5, 5«, 9«, 11«, 13«, 17, 24,
24«, 25, 245
Bolinger, D., 7, 25
Boodberg, P.A., 334
Bradley, D., 216, 222
Bricker, V.R., 315, 317, 334
Author Index
Briggs, L., 114, 136
Bright, W., 314,334
Bunzel, R., 315, 318, 331, 334
Bums, A.F., 315, 318, 321,534
Burns, D., 154
Buslaev, F., 177, 186
c
Campbell, L., 25
Carlson, B.F., 9«, 11«, 17«, 19«, 25
Cayco Villar, T., 141, 144, 152, 155
Čerepanov, S.I., 256
Cerron-Palomino, R., 152«, 154
Chafe, W.L., 6, 7, 25, 58, 59, 92«, 93«,
100«, / / / , 161«, 272, 315, 318, 319,
321, 334
Chang, B.S., 207«, 213
Chang, K., 207«, 213
Comrie, B., 164, 167, 168, 186
Cone, E.T.,329n, 334
Creider, C , 145, 154
D
de Dios Yapita Moya, J., 116, 119, 136
De Rijk, R.P.G., 7n, 25
Dejanova, M., 175, 786
DeLancey, S., 203, 207n, 209, 212, 213, 311
Démina, E.I., 182n, 186
Demiraj, S., 180, 186
Devereux, G., 319, 334
Dodi, A., 186n, 186
Douglas, M., 326, 334
Du Bois, C , 54, 59, 315, 320, 334
E
Ebbing, J.E., 113, 136
Egerod, S., 214, 214«, 215, 216, 217, 218,
219, 219«, 221, 222, 303«, 304, 311
Eliade, M., 329, 334
England, N., 116, 119, 136
337
338 Author Index
F
Fillmore, C.J., 59, 334
Firbas, J., 146, 154
Fleischman, S., 58«, 59
Fock, N., 315, 321,334
Forsyth, J., 244, 256
Foster, M.K., 92n, / / / , 315, 319, 334, 335
Fox, J., 256, 317, 318, 320, 335
Fraser, J.O., 216, 222
Freeland, L.S., 7«, 8«, 25
French, D., 315, 335
Friedman, V., 170«, 171, 172, 174«, 180«,
182, 185«, 187, 253, 256, 257
Friedrich, P., 327, 335
G
Geertz, C , 314, 330, 335
Georgiev, V., 171«, 187
Given, T., 76«, 88, 154, 311«, 312, 325,
327«, 335
Godo, S., 182, 187
Goffman, E., 323«, 324«, 335
Goiab, Z., 185, 187
Goldstein, M., 203«, 205, 207«, 213, 298,
300, 312
Gordon, L., 76«, 78«, 88
Gossen, G.H., 315, 335
Greenbaum, S., 234, 238
Greenberg, J.H., 280, 281«, 312
Grunina, E.A., 164, 165, 167
Gumperz, J.J., 327, 335
H
Haarman, H., 168, 187
Haas, M.R., 6, 9«, 11«, \ln, 19«, 25, 26
Hahn, E.A., 308«, 312
Hale, A., 312
Hall, R.A., Jr., 7, 26
Hallowell, A.I., 58, 59
Halpern, A.M., 80«, 88
Hansson, I.-L., 214«, 215, 216, 217, 218,
219, 219«, 222, 303«, 304, 311
Hardman, M.J., 114, 116, 119, 136
Hirose, M., 227, 237
Hockett, CF., 26
Hoijer, H., 5, 6, 26, 58, 59
Hopper, P., 312
Hymes, D., 314, 315, 319, 320, 330, 335
I
Irvine, J.T., 315, 330, 335
J
Jakobson, R., 3«, 5, 6, 26, 168, 169, 175,
185, 187, 214, 214«, 222, 245, 257,
318, 325«, 327, 327«, 335
Jacobsen, W.H., Jr., 9n, 11«, 12«, 13«, 15«,
17«, 19«, 22«, 26, 81, 88
Janakiev, M., 185, 187
Jespersen, O., 7, 26
Jin, P., 203«, 205, 205«, 207, 209«, 213
K
Kant, I., 325,555
Kasioka, T., 231, 237
Kay, P., 278, 283,5//
Keenan, E., 154, 315, 335
Keenan, EX., 315, 319, 335
Kindaici, H., 227, 237
Klokeid, T.J., 9«, 11«, 19«6, 22«, 26
Koneski, B., 187
Kononov, A.N., 162, 167
Konstantinov, A., 181«, 182, 183, 184, 187
Kostov, K., 171n, 187
Rostov, V., 184«, 187
Kuno, S., 226, 237
Kuroda, S.-Y., 226, 227, 237, 238
Kurylowicz, J., 185, 187
L
Labov, W., 330, 335
Lafitte, P., 7«, 26
Landa Quito, C , 155
Langdon, M., 44, 81, 88
Laprade, R.A., 133, 135, 136
Larsen, H., 149, 154
Lasch, R., 335
Lee, D.D., 4, 5, 26, 27, 46«, 47, 54«, 55,
56, 59, 61«, 74
Leech, G., 234, 238
Lévi-Strauss, C , 315, 335, 336
Lewis, P., 214, 222
Li, C , 312
Lloyd, B.B., 270, 272
Lohmann, J., 179, 187
Longacre, R., 154
Lounsbury, F.G., 94«, 112
Lunt, H., 168, 174«, 187
Lyons, J., 7, 27, 185, 187, 274, 312
M
Maksimov, S., 240«, 257
Malinowski, B., 314, 315, 317, 318, 319,
327«, 330, 336
Author Index 339
Martin, E.H., 133, 134, 136
Martin, L., 116, 119, 136
Martin, S.W., 223«, 226, 232«, 238
Matisoff, J.A., 304«, 311
McLendon, S., 29«, 44, 278, 286, 292, 312,
314, 325, 336
Michelson, K., 94«, 112
Mithun, M., 25, 94«, 112
Moshinsky, J., 29«, 44
Munro, P., 8n, 18, 27, 80«, 81, 84, 88
N
Nagano, M., 237, 238
Neumann, G., 240«, 252, 257
Nichols, J., 240«, 241, 257, 336
Norman, W.M., 315, 316, 336
Nornang, N., 203«, 205, 207«, 213, 298,
300, 312
O
Ochs, E., 154, 315, 319, 335
Okell, J., 218, 221, 222
Oono, S., 237, 238
Ortiz, C , 155
Oswalt, R., 29«, 34«, 44«, 44, 45, 73, 74
P
Pantoja Ramos, S., 140«, 155
Peirce, C.S., 324, 336
Penčev, J., 171«, 187
Piaget, J., 166, 167
Pinnow, H., 5, 27
Pitkin, H., 46«, 47«, 50«, 55, 55«, 59, 61«,
62«, 68, 74
Plato, 327, 336
Powell, J.V., 9«, 17, 18, 27
Puente, B., 142, 149, 154
Q
Quirk, R., 234, 238
R
Radin, P., 66, 74
Redfield, J., 327, 335
Ripkens, J., 140«, 155
Rosch, E., 270, 272
Ross, E.M., 113, 136
Roth, J., 176, 187
S
Sapir, E., 4, 9«, 11, 11«, 17, 18, 18«, 27,
315, 320, 327, 336
Schlichter, A., 62«, 68«, 74, 315, 317, 318,
336
Schottelndreyer, B., 189«, 202, 298, 302«,
312
Schottelndreyer, H., 198«, 202
Searle, J.R., 331, 336
Serebrennikov, B.A., 168, 187
Sherzer, J.F., 6, 8, 27, 315, 318, 319, 321,
336
Shipley, W.F., 8«, 27
Silver, S.,44
Silverstein, M., 202
Siraisi, D., 237,255
Slobin, D.I., 159, 165, 174«, 181«, 167
Spier, L., 315, 320, 336
Stankov, V., 171n, 173, 187
Stojanov, S., 182«, 187
Stout, D.B., 315, 336
Strahm, E., 312
Stross, B., 315, 320, 336
Svartvik, J., 234, 238
Swadesh, M., 4, 9«, 11, 11«, 17, 18, 19, 24,
27
Swisshelm, G., 140«, 155
Sytov, A.P., 180«, 187
T
Tambiah, S.J., 314, 315, 336
Tannen, D., 327, 335
Tekin, T., 165, 167
Teodorov-Balan, A., 171«, 187
Thomas, J., 9«, 11«, 17«, 19«, 25
Thompson, L.C., 6, 27
Thompson, R.M., 299,312
Thompson, S.A., 299, 312
Thurgood, G., 214«, 216, 220, 222, 298,
303«, 305, 312
Timkovskii, E.F., 240«, 241, 257
Torres Rubio, D. de, 113, 136
Trask, R.L., 7«, 27
Tucto Ramirez, A., 155
Turner, V.W., 314, 336
V
Vasquez, J., 116, 119, 136
Vendler, Z., 244, 257
Vidoeski, B., 177, 187
W
Weber, D., 147, 150, 152, 154
Weigand, G., 182, 187
Weinreich, U., 6, 8«, 27
340 Author Index
Wexler, P., 113, 136 Woodbury, H., 94«, 100«, 112
Whistler, K., 60«, 63«, 74 Woodruff, F., Sr., 9n, 17, 18, 27
White, L.A., 315, 317,336
Whorf, B.L., 6, 27, 28, 58, 59, 336 Y
Wilbur, T.H., 7«, 28 Yamada, Y., 234, 238
Winter, W., 81, 88 Yosida, K., 237, 238
Woodbury, A.C., 189«, 202, 214«, 220«,
222, 286, 298, 302«, 312
A
Absolutive, 11, 31, 32, 34, 37, 42
Acquisition, 165, 167
Admirative, x, 180, 182, 183, 184
Akha, x, 214-222, 303, 304, 305
Albanian, 168-187, 256
Algonquian, 8
Altaic, 240
Aorist, 168-187
Apachean, 8
Appearance, 22, 54, 70ff, 89, 90
Aspect, 31-33, 47, 57, 73, 76ff, 132, 161,
165, 190, 192, 203, 204, 207, 210,
239ff, 286, 293, 305, 310, 311. See
also Completive, Conditional, Imper-
fective, Perfective
inflectional, 244
lexical, 243, 244, 247
Assertive, 31, 32, 34, 39, 41, 69
Athabaskan, 8
Attenuation, 122ff
Attitude, 168
Auditory, 8, 13, 15, 17, 30, 37, 38, 42, 43,
70, 215, 231, 274, 279, 280, 284, 287,
288, 290, 291, 294
Austronesian, 315
Authority, xi, 313, 314, 322, 324, 325
Awareness, 163
Aymara, 113-136, 275, 283, 286, 292, 293,
297, 305
B
Balkan languages, 168-187, 255
Balkan Slavic, 168-187, 239, 275
Basque, 7
Bella Bella, 18
Bisu, 221
Black Lahu, 216
Bodo-Garo, 305
Bulgarian, x, 5, 6, 168-187
Burmese, 218, 221
Burmish, 216
Subject Index
c
Caddoan, 6
California, 7, 8
Cariban, 315
Causality, 208ff, 210
Cayuga, 90, 92, 93-105, 107-111
Central Porno, viii
Certain, 300, 302
Certainty, 4, 69, 91, 114, 234, 296, 297
Change, See Diachrony
Chibchan, 315
Chimakuan, 8, 9, 12
Chinese, xi, 216, 237, 240ff, 299
Chinese pidgin Russian, xi, 239-257
Chinook, 319
Chinookan, 315
Circumstantial, 30
Circumstantial evidence, 58
Circumstantial inference, 69ff
Classical Tibetan, 298
Comment, 138
Commitment, 180
Completive aspect, 47, 51, 166
Concessive, 6, 7
Conditional, 11, 18, 47, 49, 50, 53, 56, 105
Confident inference, 69ff
Confirmation, 171, 172, 173, 174
Confirmative, 177-179, 182, 184, 186
Conjecture, 126, 137-155
Consciousness, 163
Contact, 133ff
Conviction, 234
Copping out, 125ff
Counterfactual, 11, 63, 96
Cuna, 315, 317, 318, 319, 320
Current relevance, 163, 275, 284, 296, 299,
301, 302, 306, 307
D
Dakota, 5
Data-source, 113-136
Declarative, 62ff
1 / H
342 Subject Index
Deduction, 175
Deductive, 52
Definite past, 168-187
Deictic, 56, 58, 111
Deixis, 58
Diachrony, 89-112, 237, 273, 276
Direct, 137-155
Direct evidence, 34, 229, 274
Direct experience, 9, 139ff, 159-167, 225
Direct knowledge, 206
Direct observation, 14
Disbelief, x, 182
Doubt, 180. See also Dubitative
Dream, 3, 4, 5, 24, 42, 56, 160
Dubitative, 47, 49, 51. See also Doubt
Durative, 35
E
Eastern Porno, 278, 279, 280, 285, 286, 289,
291, 292, 325
English, x, xi, 7, 33, 35, 38, 42, 43, 54, 56,
57, 58, 73, 90, 113, 133ff, 188-202,
261-272, 274, 276, 280, 281, 283,
285, 286, 289, 293, 299, 319
Ethnography of speaking, 314
Erie, 92, 93
Evidence, 5, 12, 14, 38, 54, 58, 68, 70ff,
160, 195-199, 215, 227, 231, 274,
275, 310, 311, 313, 314, 322, 323,
325. See also Auditory, Visual
Expectation, vii, ix, xi, 53, 89, 90, 91, 96,
97, 106-108, 283, 284, 289, 294, 295
Expectational, 52, 56
Expected, 214, 218, 219, 220, 221, 304
Experience, 5, 115, 160, 205, 218, 228, 284
nonvisual sensory, 48
personal, 34, 39, 40, 42
Experiential, 52, 108, 165, 190ff, 198, 199,
201, 284
habitual, 190
Eyewitness, 205, 206
F
Fact, 96, 228
Factual, 30, 33-37, 39, 42, 43
Feeling, 13, 14, 54
Focus, 138, 145, 146
Future, 12, 30-32, 55
G
Georgian, 275, 299
German, 6, 7, 289
Germanic, 7
Gesamtbedeutung, 169, 179, 186, 283
Gnomic, 190ff
Grammaticalization, 109, 223, 239-257
Great Basin, 8
Greek, 184
Grundbedeutung, 283
Guess, 5, 126, 128, 196, 231
H
Habitual, 190
Hauptbedeutung, 169, 179, 186
Hearing, 13, 14, 54, 77ff
Hearsay, x, 3-6, 16-18, 49ff, 66, 70, 89, 90,
116, 123, 126, 139, 140, 159, 161,
163, 166, 193, 205, 206, 223, 224,
230, 233, 253, 254, 274, 280, 285,
287-291, 293-295, 297, 306, 325
Hedge, 90, 91, 96, 97, 102, 105, 110
Hierarchization, 240
Hokan, 8, 18
Hopi, 5, 6, 7, 8, 317
Huron, 92, 93
I
Immediacy, 284, 290, 291, 306, 307
Immediate, xi, 247, 248, 250, 251, 253, 254,
255, 256
Immediate evidence, 195, 196, 197, 198, 199
Imminent, 232
Imperfect, 168-187
Imperfective, 30, 32, 33, 35-37, 43, 47, 49,
51, 53, 168-187, 253, 254
Implicational hierarchy, 239, 255
Indian, 273
Indirect, 69, 137-155, 159-167, 223, 230
Indo-European languages, 58, 273, 308
Inevitability, 326
Inferential, xi, 4, 6, 8, 13, 18, 30, 38-43, 51,
66ff, 76, 91, 101, 102, 108, 124ff,
130, 160, 161, 165, 166, 190ff, 198,
201, 210, 213, 223, 233, 234-236,
247, 248-251, 253-246, 279, 283,
285, 287-297, 301, 302, 307, 322
Influence, vii, x, 8, 12, 58, 69ff, 78, 89, 90,
115, 159, 162, 163, 206, 224, 225,
227, 231, 232, 252, 274, 275, 284,
310
Information profile, 137-155
Intention, 332
Interrogative, 11, 16, 18, 63, 118, 130
Subject Index 343
Invariant, 169
Irony, 167, 180
Iroquoian, 5, 89-112, 315
Iroquois, 319
Irrealis, 55, 62ff, 79, 95, 141, 277, 278, 292,
295, 326
J
Japanese, x, xi, 223-238, 286
Jaqaru, 113-136, 275, 283, 286, 292, 293,
296, 305
Jaqi, ix, 113-136
Javanese, 315, 321, 330
Jirel, 298
K
Karen, 216, 221
Kashaya, viii, 29-45, 278, 279, 280, 285,
286, 290, 304, 305, 325
Kawki, 113-136
Keresan (Keres), 315, 317
Kiowa, 8
Kiriwina, 315, 317, 318, 319
Knowledge, 56
nonpersonal, 115ff
Knowledge-through-language, 115ff
Korean, 229
Kwakiutl, 2-5, 9, 13, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 24
Kwakwala, 9
L
Latin, 7, 114, 308
Lexicalization, 197
Lhasa Tibetan, 286, 293, 298-301, 305-306
Linguistic postulate, 114ff
Lisu, 216, 217, 219
Logical inference, 70
Lolo-Burmese, x, 216, 221, 304
Loloish, 216
Lusatian, 179
M
Macedonian, x, 5, 168-187
Maidu, 8
Maiduan, 8
Makah, viii, 3-28, 274, 276, 277, 280, 285,
286, 288, 289
Malagasy, 315, 318, 319
Manchu-Tungus, 240
Mandarin, 299
Maricopa, ix, 75-88, 274, 276, 277, 279,
286, 287, 289
MarKedness, 171-186, 239, 240
Mattole, 5
Mayan, 315, 318, 331
Memory, 5
Menomini, 7
Metaphors, 134
Mimetic, 227, 229
Mirative, 8
Miwokan, 8
Modal, vii, 11, 16, 62ff, 221, 289, 310. See
also Modality, Mode
Modality, 6, 7, 203, 274, 308, 309, 310, 311.
See also Modal, Mode
Mode, 6, 63ff, 132. See also Modal, Modality
declarative, 62
narrative, 31
responsive, 31
spontaneous, 31
irrealis, 62ff
Mode of knowing, xi
Mohawk, 93-97, 99, 101, 102, 104, 105-
107, 109, 111
Mojave, 75, 80, 319
Mood, 3, 5, 6, 76ff, 169, 181, 185, 274,
308-311
Morphologization. See Grammaticalization
Myth, 41, 160, 287-291, 294, 295, 297, 307
Mythic, 313, 325
Mythic speech, 314
N
Nadene, 8
Nanai, 240ff
Narrative, 8, 33, 34, 64ff, 120ff, 141, 151,
154
Narrative construction, 32, 39, 40, 41, 43
Narrative mode, 31
Navaho, 5
Necessity, 289
Negative, 32, 35, 36, 118, 144, 235, 246
New information, 138, 146
New knowledge, 203, 209
Nitinat, 6, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21,
22, 23, 24
Nocte, 305
Nonreportive, 227
Nonvisual sensory, 46, 48, 215, 290, 291, 295
Nootka, 4, 6, 9, 11, 14, 15, 17-19, 21, 22-
24
344 Subject Index
Nootkan, x, 9, 11
Northern Iroquoian, ix, 89-112
Northwest coast, 7, 8
Nottoway, 92
Numic, 8
O
Old information, 138, 146
Old knowledge, 203, 209
Old/new knowledge, 203, 204ff, 211, 212
Olfactory evidence, 38
Oneida, 92-96, 98, 99, 102-107, 109
Onondaga, 92, 100
Ontogeny, 164, 167
Opinion, 71
Oroch, 240, 241
P
Papago, 8
Parallelism, 316-333
Patwin, ix, 47-51, 60-74, 276, 279, 286,
292, 293, 295
Penutian, 8
Perception, 283, 285ff
Perfect, 165, 173, 253, 254, 275, 284, 290,
292, 293, 295, 296, 299-302, 306
Perfective, 30, 32, 33, 35-37, 51, 168-187,
210, 211, 253, 254
Performative, 30, 33-36, 43
Person, 13, 14, 34, 48, 114, 130, 190ff,
206ff, 209-212, 219-222, 224, 225,
228, 233, 239ff, 253, 277, 278, 284,
286, 291, 293, 296, 297, 299, 300-
302, 304, 307, 308, 311, 319, 330
Personal experience, 34, 39, 40, 42
Personal knowledge, 115ff
Perspective, 137-155
Petun, 92, 93
Phunoi, 221
Pidgin, xi, 239-257
Plains, 8
Pluperfect, 168-187
Politeness, xi, 57, 115, 118, 128, 223, 235
Porno, viii, 29-45, 48
Pomoan, 7, 73, 279, 286
Possibility, 55, 78
Potential, 50, 52
Potentiality, 54, 55
Prague school, 146
Precision, ix, 89, 90, 91, 105
Predictability, 217
Prediction, 94, 284, 289, 295
Predictive, 247-249, 251, 253, 291, 298
Premonitory, 160, 164
Prepared (mind), 164, 288
Presumptive evidence, 5
Presuppositions, 277, 278
Probability, vii, ix, 55, 89, 90, 93, 102, 105,
106, 108
Proverbs, 132ff
Q
Quechua, ix, 133, 135, 137-155
Question, 152
Quiche, 315-318, 331
Quileute, 9, 13, 15, 17, 21, 22, 24
Quotation, 328, 329, 332, 333
Quotative, 4-8, 11, 16-19, 29, 30, 34, 39,
40, 42, 43, 47, 62ff, 102, 108, 193,
198, 221, 287, 289, 293, 295, 296,
297, 325
Quote, 119ff, 128
R
Realis, 78ff, 277
Reconfirmation, 121
Reliability, vii, x, 90, 97, 138ff
Report, 115
Reportative, 76ff, 153
Reported, 168, 175, 176, 178, 180, 253, 283,
289, 292
Reportedness, x, 174, 182
Reportive, 292, 293. See also Nonreportive
Resemblance, 22
Responsibility, 138, 153
Responsive mode, 31
Resultant state, 160, 165, 166, 292, 293, 306,
207. See also Perfect
Rheme, 138, 146ff
Rhetorical effects, 143ff, 153
Ritual speech, xi, 313-336
Romance, 184
Romani, 184
Roncalese, 7
Rotinese, 315, 317, 318, 319
Russenorsk, 240
Russian, 239-257, 325
S
Salishan, 6, 8, 12
Sanskrit, 8, 289, 321
Self-evident, xi, 313-336
Subject Index 345
Seneca, 5, 93, 94, 96-107, 109, 315, 318,
319, 321
Sensation, 224
Sense modalities, 23
Sensory, 38, 48, 52, 67ff, 7Iff, 76ff, 115,
279, 280, 283, 284, 285, 286, 287,
292, 307
Sensory evidence, 7, 51, 54, 160, 333
Sensory modalities, 24
Serbo-Croatian, 179, 185
Sherpa, x, 188-202, 216, 221, 254, 255, 279,
286, 289, 293, 299, 302, 304, 305,
307
Shifters, 319, 328
Sierra Miwok, 7, 8
Sight, 77ff. See also Visual
Sino-Tibetan, 216
Siouan, 8
Slavic, 168-187, 256
Sorbian, see Lusatian
Source, vii, x, 3, 4, 58, 76ff, 90, 140
Source of evidence, 219
Source of information, 89, 100, 236
Source of knowledge, xi, 205, 314
Southern Porno, viii
Southwest, 8
Spanish, ix, 113ff, 130, 133ff
Spontaneous mode, 31
Status, 169, 181, 185
Subjunctive, 7, 55, 63ff
Subordinate, 11, 32, 41, 128
Subordination, 172, 246, 252
Substratal influence, 243
Surprisal, 123, 128, 284, 288, 307
Surprise, x, 8, 116, 161-163, 167, 180, 182,
217, 254, 277
Susquehannock, 92
Switch reference, 8Iff
T
Tactile evidence, 38
Takelma, 4
Tangible evidence, 231
Tanoan, 8
Tense, 57, 73, 117, 130ff, 182, 189, 190,
192, 195, 199, 200, 203, 204, 217-
219, 232, 233, 234, 239ff, 247, 285
293, 308
Tense deixis, ix
Tentative inference, 69ff
Textual boundaries, 151
• Theme, 138, 146ff
Tibetan, x, 203-213, 221, 254, 278, 292,
298, 299, 305, 308
Tibeto-Burman, x, 189, 217, 220, 221, 222,
273, 283, 293, 304, 305, 308
Tonkawa, 6, 8
Topic, 137ff, 146
Tracks, 20, 21, 250
Track-reading, 250
Truth, 195, 196, 234
Tungusic languages, 240ff
Tunica, 5, 6
Turkish, x, 6, 159-167, 184, 239, 254, 275,
329
Tuscarora, 93-95, 97, 99, 100, 103, 105,
106, 108, 111
Tzeltal, 315, 320
Tzotzil, 315, 317
U
Udehe, 240, 241, 242
Uncertainty, 6, 69ff
Unprepared mind, 288. See also Prepared
Unreal, 160
Unreality, 164
Uto-Aztecan, 6, 8
V
Validation, x, 114, 137-155, 155, 156
Validity, 69ff
Visible evidence, 68, 231
Visual, 8, 15, 29, 30, 33, 34, 36, 38, 39, 40,
41, 42, 43, 51, 52, 54, 70ff, 115, 205,
215, 217, 218, 274, 280, 284-286,
290, 291, 294-297, 304-307
Vizcayan, 7
Volition, 208ff, 319
Volitional, 206ff, 211, 332
Volitionality, x, 203, 210
W
Waiwai, 315, 321
Wakashan, 8, 9, 12
Washo, 8, 13
Wenro, 92, 93
Western Turkic, 165
Wintu, viii, ix, 4, 5, 46-59, 61, 276, 278,
279, 286, 289, 292-294, 305, 315,
317, 318, 320, 325
Wintun, 7, 60, 74, 286
Witnessed, 12, 85, 166, 171, 172, 178, 247,
249, 293, 305, 307
346 Subject Index
Wishram, 315, 318, 320, 321 Yucatec, 315, 318, 321
Word order, 242, 245 Yuma, 75, 80
Wyandot, 93-95, 98-101, 103, 104, 106-109 Yuman, ix, 75
Y Z
Yahi, 18 Zurii, 315, 318
Yana, 8, 18
